(2)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Institute of Biochemistry and Cell 
Biology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, The Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, 320 Yue Yang Road, Shanghai 200031, China University of Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100039, China School of Life Science and 
Technology, ShanghaiTech University, 319 Yue Yang Road, Shanghai 200031, China 
edwang@sibs.ac.cn.

TrmJ proteins from the SPOUT methyltransferase superfamily are tRNA Xm32 
modification enzymes that occur in bacteria and archaea. Unlike archaeal TrmJ, 
bacterial TrmJ require full-length tRNA molecules as substrates. It remains 
unknown how bacterial TrmJs recognize substrate tRNAs and specifically catalyze 
a 2'-O modification at ribose 32. Herein, we demonstrate that all six 
Escherichia coli (Ec) tRNAs with 2'-O-methylated nucleosides at position 32 are 
substrates of EcTrmJ, and we show that the elbow region of tRNA, but not the 
amino acid acceptor stem, is needed for the methylation reaction. Our 
crystallographic study reveals that full-length EcTrmJ forms an unusual dimer in 
the asymmetric unit, with both the catalytic SPOUT domain and C-terminal 
extension forming separate dimeric associations. Based on these findings, we 
used electrophoretic mobility shift assay, isothermal titration calorimetry and 
enzymatic methods to identify amino acids within EcTrmJ that are involved in 
tRNA binding. We found that tRNA recognition by EcTrmJ involves the cooperative 
influences of conserved residues from both the SPOUT and extensional domains, 
and that this process is regulated by the flexible hinge region that connects 
these two domains.

© The Author(s) 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic 
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkv745
PMCID: PMC4551947
PMID: 26202969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Rev Neurol. 2015 Aug 16;61(4):159-66.

[Drug resistant epilepsy. Clinical and neurobiological concepts].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Espinosa-Jovel CA(1), Sobrino-Mejía FE.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Occidente de Kennedy, Bogota DC, Colombia.

Drug-resistant epilepsy, is a condition defined by the International League 
Against Epilepsy as persistent seizures despite having used at least two 
appropriate and adequate antiepileptic drug treatments. Approximately 20-30% of 
patients with epilepsy are going to be resistant to antiepileptic drugs, with 
different patterns of clinical presentation, which are related to the biological 
basis of this disease (de novo resistance, relapsing-remitting and progressive). 
Drug resistant epilepsy, impacts negatively the quality of life and 
significantly increases the risk of premature death. From the neurobiological 
point of view, this medical condition is the result of the interaction of 
multiple variables related to the underlying disease, drug interactions and 
proper genetic aspects of each patient. Thanks to advances in pharmacogenetics 
and molecular biology research, currently some hypotheses may explain the cause 
of this condition and promote the study of new therapeutic options. Currently, 
overexpression of membrane transporters such as P-glycoprotein, appears to be 
one of the most important mechanisms in the development of drug resistant 
epilepsy. The objective of this review is to deepen the general aspects of this 
clinical condition, addressing the definition, epidemiology, differential 
diagnosis and the pathophysiological bases.

Publisher: TITLE: Farmacorresistencia en epilepsia. Conceptos clinicos y 
neurobiologicos.
La epilepsia farmacorresistente es una condicion definida por la Liga 
Internacional contra la Epilepsia como la persistencia de crisis epilepticas a 
pesar de haber utilizado al menos dos tratamientos con farmacos antiepilepticos 
apropiados y adecuados. Cerca de un 20-30% de los pacientes con epilepsia van a 
ser resistentes a los farmacos antiepilepticos, con diferentes patrones de 
presentacion clinica, los cuales estan en relacion con las bases biologicas de 
esta enfermedad (resistencia de novo, recaida-remision y progresiva). La 
farmacorresistencia en epilepsia impacta negativamente en la calidad de vida y 
aumenta significativamente el riesgo de muerte prematura. Desde el punto de 
vista neurobiologico, esta condicion clinica es el resultado de la interaccion 
de multiples variables relacionadas con la enfermedad de base, las interacciones 
medicamentosas y los aspectos geneticos propios de cada paciente. Gracias a los 
avances en la investigacion farmacogenetica y de biologia molecular, actualmente 
se plantean algunas hipotesis que podrian explicar la causa de esta condicion y 
que promueven el estudio de nuevas opciones terapeuticas. En la actualidad, la 
sobreexpresion de transportadores de membrana, como la glucoproteina P, parece 
ser uno de los mecanismos mas importantes en el desarrollo de la 
farmacorresistencia en epilepsia. El objetivo de esta revision es profundizar en 
los aspectos generales de esta condicion clinica, abordando la definicion, los 
aspectos epidemiologicos, los diagnosticos diferenciales y las bases 
fisiopatologicas.

PMID: 26204087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Atherosclerosis. 2015 Sep;242(1):205-10. doi: 
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2015.07.023. Epub 2015 Jul 14.

Use of a proximity extension assay proteomics chip to discover new biomarkers 
for human atherosclerosis.

Lind L(1), Ärnlöv J(2), Lindahl B(3), Siegbahn A(4), Sundström J(1), Ingelsson 
E(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, Cardiovascular Epidemiology, Uppsala 
University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(2)Department of Medical Sciences, Cardiovascular Epidemiology, Uppsala 
University, Uppsala, Sweden; School of Health and Social Studies, Dalarna 
University, Falun, Sweden.
(3)Department of Medical Sciences, Cardiology, Uppsala University, Uppsala, 
Sweden.
(4)Department of Medical Sciences, Coagulation and Inflammation Science and 
Science for Life Laboratory Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(5)Department of Medical Sciences, Molecular Epidemiology and Science for Life 
Laboratory, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden; Department of Medicine, 
Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, CA, USA. Electronic address: erik.ingelsson@medsci.uu.se.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: We used a proteomics array to simultaneously measure 
multiple proteins that have been suggested to be associated with atherosclerosis 
and related them to plaque prevalence in carotid arteries in a human 
population-based study.
METHODS: In the Prospective Study of the Vasculature in Uppsala Seniors (PIVUS; 
n = 931, 50% women, all aged 70 years), the number of carotid arteries with 
plaques was recorded by ultrasound. Levels of 82 proteins were assessed in 
plasma by a proximity extension assay (Proseek Multiplex CVD, Olink Bioscience, 
Uppsala, Sweden) and related to carotid measures in a regression framework.
RESULTS: Following adjustment for multiple testing with Bonferroni correction, 
seven of the proteins were significantly related to the number of carotid 
arteries affected by plaques in sex-adjusted models (osteoprotegrin, T-cell 
immunoglobulin and mucin domain (TIM)-1, growth/differentiation factor 15 
(GDF-15), matrix metalloprotease-12 (MMP-12), renin, tumor necrosis factor 
ligand superfamily member 14 (TNFSF14) and growth hormone). Of these, renin 
(odds ratio [OR], 1.30; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.13-1.49 per standard 
deviation increase), growth hormone (OR, 1.24; 95% CI, 1.08-1.43), 
osteoprotegerin (OR, 1.22; 95% CI, 1.05-1.43) and TNFSF14 (OR, 1.17; 95% CI, 
1.01-1.35) were related to plaque prevalence independently of each other and 
traditional cardiovascular risk factors.
CONCLUSION: A novel targeted proteomics approach using the proximity extension 
technique discovered several new associations of candidate proteins with carotid 
artery plaque prevalence in a large human sample.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2015.07.023
PMID: 26204497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. J Neurol. 2015 Oct;262(10):2352-63. doi: 10.1007/s00415-015-7842-0. Epub
2015  Jul 24.

High incidence and increasing prevalence of multiple sclerosis in British 
Columbia, Canada: findings from over two decades (1991-2010).

Kingwell E(1), Zhu F(2), Marrie RA(3), Fisk JD(4), Wolfson C(5), Warren S(6), 
Profetto-McGrath J(7), Svenson LW(8), Jette N(9), Bhan V(10), Yu BN(11), Elliott 
L(12), Tremlett H(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine (Neurology), UBC Hospital, University of British 
Columbia, 2211 Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver, BC, V6T 2B5, Canada. 
elainejk@mail.ubc.ca.
(2)Faculty of Medicine (Neurology), UBC Hospital, University of British 
Columbia, 2211 Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver, BC, V6T 2B5, Canada.
(3)Departments of Internal Medicine & Community Health Sciences, University of 
Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada.
(4)Departments of Psychiatry and Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, 
Canada.
(5)Department of Medicine and of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational 
Health, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(6)Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, 
Canada.
(7)Faculty of Nursing, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.
(8)Surveillance and Assessment Branch, Alberta Health, Government of Alberta, 
Edmonton, AB, Canada.
(9)Department of Clinical Neurosciences and Community Health Sciences, Hotchkiss 
Brain Institute and O'Brien Institute for Population Health, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.
(10)Department of Medicine (Neurology), Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, 
Canada.
(11)Department of Community Health Sciences, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, 
MB, Canada.
(12)Departments of Community Health Sciences and Medical Microbiology, 
University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada.

Province-wide population-based administrative health data from British Columbia 
(BC), Canada (population: approximately 4.5 million) were used to estimate the 
incidence and prevalence of multiple sclerosis (MS) and examine potential trends 
over time. All BC residents meeting validated health administrative case 
definitions for MS were identified using hospital, physician, death, and health 
registration files. Estimates of annual prevalence (1991-2008), and incidence 
(1996-2008; allowing a 5-year disease-free run-in period) were age and sex 
standardized to the 2001 Canadian population. Changes over time in incidence, 
prevalence and sex ratios were examined using Poisson and log-binomial 
regression. The incidence rate was stable [average: 7.8/100,000 (95 % CI 7.6, 
8.1)], while the female: male ratio decreased (p = 0.045) but remained at or 
above 2 for all years (average 2.8:1). From 1991-2008, MS prevalence increased 
by 4.7 % on average per year (p < 0.001) from 78.8/100,000 (95 % CI 75.7, 82.0) 
to 179.9/100,000 (95 % CI 176.0, 183.8), the sex prevalence ratio increased from 
2.27 to 2.78 (p < 0.001) and the peak prevalence age range increased from 45-49 
to 55-59 years. MS incidence and prevalence in BC are among the highest in the 
world. Neither the incidence nor the incidence sex ratio increased over time. 
However, the prevalence and prevalence sex ratio increased significantly during 
the 18-year period, which may be explained by the increased peak prevalence age 
of MS, longer survival with MS and the greater life expectancy of women compared 
to men.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-015-7842-0
PMCID: PMC4608995
PMID: 26205633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Lancet Oncol. 2015 Sep;16(9):1049-1060. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00187-4.
Epub  2015 Jul 20.

Adjuvant lymph-node field radiotherapy versus observation only in patients with 
melanoma at high risk of further lymph-node field relapse after lymphadenectomy 
(ANZMTG 01.02/TROG 02.01): 6-year follow-up of a phase 3, randomised controlled 
trial.

Henderson MA(1), Burmeister BH(2), Ainslie J(3), Fisher R(4), Di Iulio J(4), 
Smithers BM(2), Hong A(5), Shannon K(5), Scolyer RA(5), Carruthers S(6), 
Coventry BJ(6), Babington S(7), Duprat J(8), Hoekstra HJ(9), Thompson JF(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Surgery, University of Melbourne Department of Surgery, 
East Melbourne, VIC, Australia; University of Melbourne, East Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia. Electronic address: michael.henderson@petermac.org.
(2)Princess Alexandra Hospital, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 
Australia.
(3)Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, East Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(4)Centre for Biostatistics and Clinical Trials, East Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(5)Melanoma Institute of Australia, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(6)Royal Adelaide Hospital, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, Australia.
(7)Christchurch Hospital, Christchurch, New Zealand.
(8)Hospital Do Cancer, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(9)University Medical Centre Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands.

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2015 Sep;16(9):1003-4.

BACKGROUND: Adjuvant radiotherapy is recommended for patients with melanoma 
after lymphadenectomy. We previously showed this treatment reduced risk of 
repeat lymph-node field cancer in patients with a high risk of recurrence but 
had no effect on overall survival. Here, we aim to update the relapse and 
survival data from that trial and assess quality of life and toxic effects.
METHODS: In the ANZMTG 01.02/TROG 02.01 randomised controlled trial, we enrolled 
patients who had undergone lymphadenectomy for a palpable lymph-node field 
relapse and were at high risk of recurrence at 16 hospitals (11 in Australia, 
three in New Zealand, one in Netherlands, and one in Brazil). We randomly 
assigned patients (1:1) to adjuvant radiotherapy (48 Gy in 20 fractions, given 
over a maximum of 30 days) or observation, stratified by institution, areas of 
lymph-node field (parotid and cervical, axilla, or groin), number of involved 
nodes (≤3 vs >3), maximum involved node diameter (≤4 cm vs >4 cm), and extent of 
extracapsular extension (none, limited, or extensive). Participants, those 
giving treatment, and those assessing outcomes were not masked to treatment 
allocation, but participants were unaware of each other's treatment allocation. 
In this follow-up, we assessed outcomes every 3 months from randomisation for 
the first 2 years, then every 6 months up to 5 years, then annually. The primary 
endpoint was lymph-node field relapse as a first relapse, assessed in patients 
without major eligibility infringements (determined by an independent data 
monitoring committee). We assessed late adverse effects (occurring >90 days 
after surgery or start of radiotherapy) with standard criteria in the as-treated 
population. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number 
NCT00287196.
FINDINGS: Between March 21, 2003, and Nov 15, 2007, we randomly assigned 123 
patients to adjuvant radiotherapy (109 eligible for efficacy assessments) and 
127 to observation (108 eligible). The final follow-up date was Nov 15, 2011. 
Median follow-up was 73 months (IQR 61-91). 23 (21%) relapses occurred in the 
adjuvant radiotherapy group compared with 39 (36%) in the observation group 
(adjusted hazard ratio [HR] 0·52 [95% CI 0·31-0·88], p=0·023). Overall survival 
(HR 1·27 [95% CI 0·89-1·79], p=0·21) and relapse-free survival (0·89 
[0·65-1·22], p=0·51) did not differ between groups. Minor, long-term toxic 
effects from radiotherapy (predominantly pain, and fibrosis of the skin or 
subcutaneous tissue) were common, and 20 (22%) of 90 patients receiving adjuvant 
radiotherapy developed grade 3-4 toxic effects. 18 (20%) of 90 patients had 
grade 3 toxic effects, mainly affecting skin (nine [10%] patients) and 
subcutaneous tissue (six [7%] patients). Over 5 years, a significant increase in 
lower limb volumes was noted after adjuvant radiotherapy (mean volume ratio 
15·0%) compared with observation (7·7%; difference 7·3% [95% CI 1·5-13·1], 
p=0·014). No significant differences in upper limb volume were noted between 
groups.
INTERPRETATION: Long-term follow-up supports our previous findings. Adjuvant 
radiotherapy could be useful for patients for whom lymph-node field control is a 
major issue, but entry to an adjuvant systemic therapy trial might be a 
preferable first option. Alternatively, observation, reserving surgery and 
radiotherapy for a further recurrence, might be an acceptable strategy.
FUNDING: National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia, Cancer 
Council Australia, Melanoma Institute Australia, and the Cancer Council South 
Australia.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00187-4
PMID: 26206146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Haematologica. 2015 Oct;100(10):1267-74. doi: 10.3324/haematol.2015.129239.
Epub  2015 Jul 23.

Therapeutic effect of androgen therapy in a mouse model of aplastic anemia 
produced by short telomeres.

Bär C(1), Huber N(1), Beier F(2), Blasco MA(3).

Author information:
(1)Telomeres and Telomerase Group, Molecular Oncology Program, Spanish National 
Cancer Centre (CNIO), Melchor Fernández Almagro 3, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Telomeres and Telomerase Group, Molecular Oncology Program, Spanish National 
Cancer Centre (CNIO), Melchor Fernández Almagro 3, Madrid, Spain Department of 
Hematology, Oncology and Stem Cell Transplantation, Medical Faculty, RWTH Aachen 
University Germany.
(3)Telomeres and Telomerase Group, Molecular Oncology Program, Spanish National 
Cancer Centre (CNIO), Melchor Fernández Almagro 3, Madrid, Spain 
mblasco@cnio.es.

Aplastic anemia is a rare but life-threatening disorder characterized by 
cytopenia in at least two of the three blood lineages. A frequent feature of 
patients with aplastic anemia is that they have shorter telomeres than those of 
age-matched controls. Testosterone has been used for over half a century in the 
treatment of aplastic anemia. However, although remissions are frequent 
following hormone therapy, the molecular mechanism underlying the response to 
treatment has remained unknown. Here we explored the possibility that the 
recently described regulation of telomerase activity by sex hormones may be the 
mechanism responsible. To this end, we used a mouse model of aplastic anemia 
induced by short telomeres in the bone marrow compartment. We found that 
testosterone therapy results in telomerase up-regulation, improved blood counts, 
and a significant extension of life-span of these mice. Importantly, 
longitudinal follow-up studies revealed longer telomeres in peripheral blood in 
mice subjected to hormone treatment. Our results demonstrate that 
testosterone-mediated telomerase activation can attenuate or reverse aplastic 
anemia disease progression associated with the presence of short telomeres.

Copyright© Ferrata Storti Foundation.

DOI: 10.3324/haematol.2015.129239
PMCID: PMC4591758
PMID: 26206796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Eur J Public Health. 2017 May 1;27(suppl_2):25-30. doi:
10.1093/eurpub/ckv116.

Defining the urban area for cross national comparison of health indicators: the 
EURO-URHIS 2 boundary study.

Higgerson J(1)(2), Birt CA(2), van Ameijden E(3), Verma A(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Manchester Urban Collaboration on Health, Centre for Epidemiology, 
Institute for Population Health, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, The 
University of Manchester, Manchester, M13 9PT, UK.
(2)2 Department of Public Health and Policy, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, 
Merseyside, UK.
(3)3 Municipal Health Service Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Despite much research focusing on the impact of the city condition upon health, 
there still remains a lack of consensus over what constitutes an urban area 
(UA). This study was conducted to establish comparable boundaries for the UAs 
participating in EURO-URHIS 2, and to test whether the sample reflected the 
heterogeneity of urban living. Key UA contacts ( n = 28) completed a 
cross-sectional questionnaire, which included where available comparison between 
Urban Audit city and larger urban zone (LUZ) boundaries and public health 
administration areas (PHAAs). Additionally, broad health and demographic 
indicators were sought to test for heterogeneity of the EURO-URHIS 2 sample. 
Urban Audit city boundaries were found to be suitable for data collection in 
100% ( n = 21) of UAs where Urban Audit data were available. The remainder ( n = 
7) identified PHAA boundaries akin to the 'city' level. Heterogeneity was 
observed in the sample for population size and infant mortality rate. 
Heterogeneity could not be established for male and female life expectancy. This 
study was able to establish comparable boundaries for EURO-URHIS 2 data 
collection, with the 'city' area being selected for data collection. The 
homogeneity of life expectancy indicators was reflective of sub-regional 
similarities in life expectancy, whilst population estimates and rates of infant 
mortality indicated the presence of heterogeneity within the sample. Future work 
would trial these methods with a larger number of indicators and for a larger 
number of UAs.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Public Health Association. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckv116
PMID: 26206881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Ann Transl Med. 2015 Jun;3(9):114. doi: 10.3978/j.issn.2305-5839.2015.06.02.

"Old people suffer the ravages of the years": changes of treatments in elderly 
patients with early stage non-small cell lung cancer.

Bertolaccini L(1), Viti A(1), Terzi A(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Thoracic Surgery Unit, Sacro Cuore - Don Calabria Research Hospital, Negrar 
Verona, Italy ; 2 Thoracic Surgery Unit, S. Croce e Carle Hospital, Cuneo, 
Italy.

The increase in life expectancy and the spreading of lung cancer screening led 
to a further rise of newly detected non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cases. 
Age, per se, should not be considered a contraindication for treatments in fit 
patients. Early stage NSCLC is more and more treated with minimally invasive 
surgery. Stereotactic ablative radiation therapy (SABR) has been developed as an 
innovative therapy for stage I NSCLC and is now considered a standard treatment 
option for medically inoperable patients or for patient who refuse operation. 
Preoperative careful functional evaluations either respiratory or 
cardiovascular, as well as preoperative staging, are mandatory to pose 
indication for surgery in elderly. On the other hand, all elderly patients with 
lung cancer should have some form of assessment of physiologic age. As minimally 
invasive thoracic surgery has reduced the postoperative morbidity and has led to 
a decrease in the length of hospital stay, lobectomy remains the treatment of 
choice for early stage NSCLC in elderly patients. Discussion by experienced 
multidisciplinary team is the best approach to evaluate the 
advantages/disadvantages of each treatment modality in elderly patients with 
early-stage NSCLC.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2305-5839.2015.06.02
PMCID: PMC4481360
PMID: 26207242


244. Clin J Oncol Nurs. 2015 Aug;19(4):E80-6. doi: 10.1188/15.CJON.E80-E86.

Integrating Geriatrics Into Oncology Ambulatory Care Clinics.

Overcash J(1).

Author information:
(1)Ohio State University in Columbus.

BACKGROUND: Geriatric oncology offers specialized care that incorporates 
comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) and multidisciplinary teams (MDTs) with 
oncology care. Geriatric syndromes, comorbidities, and caregiver concerns are 
relevant to the oncology assessment in older adult patients to make treatment 
decisions, which should be based not on age but on health and functional status, 
as well as on life expectancy. Developing a geriatric oncology ambulatory care 
clinic (GOACC) requires numerous resources and entails planning for longer 
patient encounter times, devising collaboration strategies with community care 
providers, and establishing dedicated time for team members.
OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this article is to provide information regarding the 
construction and sustainability of a GOACC.
METHODS: A comprehensive review of literature published from 1991-2015 was 
conducted using the following key words.
FINDINGS: Oncology primary care nurses and advanced practice nurses have a large 
role in the development and maintenance of GOACCs. Managing comorbidities, 
identifying patients who likely would benefit from a CGA, providing caregiver 
support, conducting a CGA, and creating an MDT are core elements of developing a 
sustainable GOACC.

DOI: 10.1188/15.CJON.E80-E86
PMID: 26207721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 24;10(7):e0133356. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133356. 
eCollection 2015.

Gene Expression in Experimental Aortic Coarctation and Repair: Candidate Genes 
for Therapeutic Intervention?

LaDisa JF Jr(1), Bozdag S(2), Olson J(3), Ramchandran R(4), Kersten JR(5), 
Eddinger TJ(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Marquette University, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, United States of America; Department of Medicine, Division of 
Cardiovascular Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
United States of America; Biotechnology and Bioengineering Center, Medical 
College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States of America; Herma 
Heart Center, Children's Hospital of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United 
States of America.
(2)Department of Mathematics, Statistics, and Computer Science, Marquette 
University, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States of America.
(3)Department of Physiology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
United States of America.
(4)Departments of Pediatrics and Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical College of 
Wisconsin and the Developmental Vascular Biology Program, Children's Hospital of 
Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States of America.
(5)Department of Anesthesiology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, United States of America; Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, 
Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States of America.
(6)Department of Biological Sciences, Marquette University, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, United States of America.

Coarctation of the aorta (CoA) is a constriction of the proximal descending 
thoracic aorta and is one of the most common congenital cardiovascular defects. 
Treatments for CoA improve life expectancy, but morbidity persists, particularly 
due to the development of chronic hypertension (HTN). Identifying the mechanisms 
of morbidity is difficult in humans due to confounding variables such as age at 
repair, follow-up duration, coarctation severity and concurrent anomalies. We 
previously developed an experimental model that replicates aortic pathology in 
humans with CoA without these confounding variables, and mimics correction at 
various times using dissolvable suture. Here we present the most comprehensive 
description of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) to date from the pathology 
of CoA, which were obtained using this model. Aortic samples (n=4/group) from 
the ascending aorta that experiences elevated blood pressure (BP) from induction 
of CoA, and restoration of normal BP after its correction, were analyzed by gene 
expression microarray, and enriched genes were converted to human orthologues. 
51 DEGs with >6 fold-change (FC) were used to determine enriched Gene Ontology 
terms, altered pathways, and association with National Library of Medicine 
Medical Subject Headers (MeSH) IDs for HTN, cardiovascular disease (CVD) and 
CoA. The results generated 18 pathways, 4 of which (cell cycle, immune system, 
hemostasis and metabolism) were shared with MeSH ID's for HTN and CVD, and 
individual genes were associated with the CoA MeSH ID. A thorough literature 
search further uncovered association with contractile, cytoskeletal and 
regulatory proteins related to excitation-contraction coupling and metabolism 
that may explain the structural and functional changes observed in our 
experimental model, and ultimately help to unravel the mechanisms responsible 
for persistent morbidity after treatment for CoA.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133356
PMCID: PMC4514739
PMID: 26207811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


246. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 24;10(7):e0133755. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133755. 
eCollection 2015.

Estimation of Life-Year Loss and Lifetime Costs for Different Stages of Colon 
Adenocarcinoma in Taiwan.

Chen PC(1), Lee JC(1), Wang JD(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Colorectal Surgery and General Surgery, Department of Surgery, 
National Cheng Kung University Hospital, College of Medicine, National Cheng 
Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(2)Departments of Internal Medicine and Occupational and Environmental Medicine, 
National Cheng Kung University Hospital, and Department of Public Health, 
College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.

BACKGROUNDS AND AIMS: Life-expectancy of colon cancer patients cannot be 
accurately answered due to the lack of both large datasets and long-term 
follow-ups, which impedes accurate estimation of lifetime cost to treat colon 
cancer patients. In this study, we applied a method to estimate life-expectancy 
of colon cancer patients in Taiwan and calculate the lifetime costs by different 
stages and age groups.
METHODS: A total of 17,526 cases with pathologically verified colon 
adenocarcinoma between 2002 and 2009 were extracted from Taiwan Cancer Registry 
database for analysis. All patients were followed-up until the end of 2011. 
Life-expectancy, expected-years-of-life-lost and lifetime costs were estimated, 
using a semi-parametric survival extrapolation method and borrowing information 
from life tables of vital statistics.
RESULTS: Patients with more advanced stages of colon cancer were generally 
younger and less co-morbid with major chronic diseases than those with stages I 
and II. The LE of stage I was not significantly different from that of the age- 
and sex-matched general population, whereas those of stages II, III, and IV 
colon cancer patients after diagnosis were 16.57 ± 0.07, 13.35 ± 0.07, and 4.05 
± 0.05 years, respectively; the corresponding expected-years-of-life-lost were 
1.28 ± 0.07, 5.93 ± 0.07 and 16.42 ± 0.06 years, significantly shorter than the 
general population after accounting for lead time bias. Besides, the lifetime 
cost of managing stage II colon cancer patients would be US $8,416 ± 1939, 
14,334 ± 1,755, and 21,837 ± 1,698, respectively, indicating a big saving for 
early diagnosis and treatment after stratification for age and sex.
CONCLUSIONS: Treating colon cancer at younger age and earlier stage saves more 
life-years and healthcare costs. Future studies are indicated to apply these 
quantitative results into the cost-effectiveness evaluation of screening program 
for colon cancers.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133755
PMCID: PMC4514792
PMID: 26207912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


247. World Health Popul. 2014;15(4):17-33. doi: 10.12927/whp.2015.24220.

Socioeconomic Determinants of Adult Mortality in Namibia Using an Event History 
Analysis.

Kandjimbi A(1), Nickanor N(2), Kazembe LN(2).

Author information:
(1)Namibia Statistics Agency, Windhoek, Namibia.
(2)Department of Statistics and Population Studies, University of Namibia, 
Windhoek, Namibia.

Adult mortality remains a neglected public health issue in sub-Saharan Africa, 
with most policy instruments concentrated on child and maternal health. In 
developed countries, adult mortality is negatively associated with socioeconomic 
factors. A similar pattern is expected in developing countries, but has not been 
extensively demonstrated, because of dearth of data. Understanding the hazard 
and factors associated with adult mortality is crucial for informing policies 
and for implementation of interventions aimed at improving adult survival. This 
paper applied a geo-additive survival model to elucidate effects of 
socioeconomic factors on adult mortality in Namibia, controlling for spatial 
frailties. Results show a clear disadvantage for adults in rural areas, for 
those not married and from poor households or in female-headed households. The 
hazard of adult mortality was highly variable with a 1.5-fold difference between 
areas, with highest hazard recorded in north eastern, central west and southern 
west parts of the country. The analysis emphasizes that, for Namibia to achieve 
its national development goals, targeted interventions should be aimed at 
poor-resourced adults, particularly in high-risk areas.

DOI: 10.12927/whp.2015.24220
PMID: 26208512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Vet Res. 2015 Jul 24;46(1):86. doi: 10.1186/s13567-015-0218-8.

A novel epidemiological model to better understand and predict the observed 
seasonal spread of Pestivirus in Pyrenean chamois populations.

Beaunée G(1), Gilot-Fromont E(2)(3), Garel M(4), Ezanno P(5).

Author information:
(1)INRA, Oniris, LUNAM Université, UMR1300 BioEpAR, CS40706, F-44307 Nantes, 
France. gael.beaunee@gmail.com.
(2)Université de Lyon, VetAgro Sup-Campus Vétérinaire de Lyon, Marcy l'Etoile, 
France. emmanuelle.gilotfromont@vetagro-sup.fr.
(3)Université de Lyon, Université Lyon 1, UMR CNRS 5558 Laboratoire de Biométrie 
et Biologie Evolutive, Villeurbanne, France. 
emmanuelle.gilotfromont@vetagro-sup.fr.
(4)Office National de la Chasse et de la Faune Sauvage, Centre National d'Études 
et de Recherche Appliquée Faune de Montagne, Gières, France. 
mathieu.garel@oncfs.gouv.fr.
(5)INRA, Oniris, LUNAM Université, UMR1300 BioEpAR, CS40706, F-44307 Nantes, 
France. pauline.ezanno@oniris-nantes.fr.

Seasonal variations in individual contacts give rise to a complex interplay 
between host demography and pathogen transmission. This is particularly true for 
wild populations, which highly depend on their natural habitat. These seasonal 
cycles induce variations in pathogen transmission. The seasonality of these 
biological processes should therefore be considered to better represent and 
predict pathogen spread. In this study, we sought to better understand how the 
seasonality of both the demography and social contacts of a mountain ungulate 
population impacts the spread of a pestivirus within, and the dynamics of, this 
population. We propose a mathematical model to represent this complex biological 
system. The pestivirus can be transmitted both horizontally through direct 
contact and vertically in utero. Vertical transmission leads to abortion or to 
the birth of persistently infected animals with a short life expectancy. 
Horizontal transmission involves a complex dynamics because of seasonal 
variations in contact among sexes and age classes. We performed a sensitivity 
analysis that identified transmission rates and disease-related mortality as key 
parameters. We then used data from a long-term demographic and epidemiological 
survey of the studied population to estimate these mostly unknown 
epidemiological parameters. Our model adequately represents the system dynamics, 
observations and model predictions showing similar seasonal patterns. We show 
that the virus has a significant impact on population dynamics, and that 
persistently infected animals play a major role in the epidemic dynamics. 
Modeling the seasonal dynamics allowed us to obtain realistic prediction and to 
identify key parameters of transmission.

DOI: 10.1186/s13567-015-0218-8
PMCID: PMC4513621
PMID: 26208716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Semin Arthritis Rheum. 2015 Oct;45(2):167-73. doi: 
10.1016/j.semarthrit.2015.06.010. Epub 2015 Jun 19.

Development of a multimorbidity index: Impact on quality of life using a 
rheumatoid arthritis cohort.

Radner H(1), Yoshida K(2), Mjaavatten MD(3), Aletaha D(4), Frits M(5), Lu B(5), 
Iannaccone C(5), Shadick N(5), Weinblatt M(5), Hmamouchi I(6), Dougados M(7), 
Smolen JS(4), Solomon DH(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Immunology and Allergy, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, 75 Francis St, Boston MA, 02115; Division of Rheumatology, Department 
of Internal Medicine III, Medical University Vienna, Vienna, Austria. Electronic 
address: hradner@partners.org.
(2)Division of Rheumatology, Immunology and Allergy, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, 75 Francis St, Boston MA, 02115; Department of Epidemiology, Harvard 
T. H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA.
(3)Division of Rheumatology, Immunology and Allergy, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, 75 Francis St, Boston MA, 02115; Department of Rheumatology, 
Diakonhjemmet Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(4)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine III, Medical 
University Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(5)Division of Rheumatology, Immunology and Allergy, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, 75 Francis St, Boston MA, 02115.
(6)Faculty of Medicine, Laboratory of Biostatistics, Clinical Research and 
Epidemiology (LBRCE), Mohammed V Souissi University, Rabat, Morocco.
(7)Department of Rheumatology, Paris Descartes University-Hôpital Cochin, 
Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris-EULAR center of excellence, INSERM (U1153) 
Clinical epidemiology and biostatistics, PRES Sorbonne Paris-Cité, Paris, 
France.

OBJECTIVE: To develop a multimorbidity index (MMI) based on health-related 
quality of life (HRQol).
METHODS: The index was developed in an observational RA cohort. In all, 40 
morbidities recommended as core were identified using ICD-9 codes. MMIs of two 
types were calculated: one by enumerating morbidities (MMI.count) and the other 
by weighting morbidities based on their association with HRQol as assessed by 
EQ-5D in multiple linear regression analysis (using β-coefficients; MMI.weight). 
MMIs were compared to the Charlson comorbidity index (CCI) and externally 
validated in an international RA cohort (COMORA Study).
RESULTS: In all, 544 out of 876 patients were multimorbid. MMI.count was in the 
range 1-16 (median = 2) and MMI.weight in the range 0-38 (median = 1). Both 
indices were more strongly associated with EQ-5D than CCI (Spearman: MMI.count = 
-0.20, MMI.weight = -0.26, and CCI = -0.10; p < 0.01). R(2) obtained by linear 
regression using EQ-5D as a dependent variable and various indices as 
independent variables, adjusted for age and gender, was the highest for MMI 
(R(2): MMI.count = 0.05, MMI.weight = 0.11, and CCI = 0.02). When accounting for 
clinical disease activity index (CDAI) R(2) increased: MMI.count = 0.18, 
MMI.weight = 0.22, and CCI = 0.17, still showing higher values of MMI compared 
with CCI. External validation in different RA cohorts (COMORA, n = 3864) showed 
good performance of both indices (linear regression including age, gender, and 
disease activity R(2) = 0.30 for both MMIs).
CONCLUSION: In our cohort, MMI based on EQ-5D performed better than did CCI. 
Findings were reproducible in another large RA cohort. Not much improvement was 
gained by weighting; therefore a simple counted index could be useful to control 
for the effect of multimorbidity on patient's overall well-being.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semarthrit.2015.06.010
PMID: 26209213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Waste Manag. 2015 Oct;44:3-14. doi: 10.1016/j.wasman.2015.07.015. Epub 2015
Jul  21.

Modelling informally collected quantities of bulky waste and reusable items in 
Austria.

Ramusch R(1), Pertl A(2), Scherhaufer S(2), Schmied E(2), Obersteiner G(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Waste Management, Department of Water, Atmosphere and 
Environment, University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences, Vienna, 
Muthgasse 107, A-1190 Wien, Austria. Electronic address: 
roland.ramusch@boku.ac.at.
(2)Institute of Waste Management, Department of Water, Atmosphere and 
Environment, University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences, Vienna, 
Muthgasse 107, A-1190 Wien, Austria.

Disparities in earnings between Western and Eastern European countries are the 
reason for a well-established informal sector actively involved in collection 
and transboundary shipment activities from Austria to Hungary. The preferred 
objects are reusable items and wastes within the categories bulky waste, WEEE 
and metals, intended to be sold on flea markets. Despite leading to a loss of 
recyclable resources for Austrian waste management, these informal activities 
may contribute to the extension of the lifetime of certain goods when they are 
reused in Hungary; nevertheless they are discussed rather controversially. The 
aim of this paper is to provide objective data on the quantities informally 
collected and transhipped. The unique activities of informal collectors required 
the development and implementation of a new set of methodologies. The concept of 
triangulation was used to verify results obtained by field visits, interviews 
and a traffic counting campaign. Both approaches lead to an estimation of 
approx. 100,000 t per year of reusable items informally collected in Austria. 
This means that in addition to the approx. 72 kg/cap/yr formally collected bulky 
waste, bulky waste wood, household scrap (excluding packaging) and WEEE, up to a 
further 12 kg/cap/yr might, in the case that informal collection is abandoned, 
end up as waste or in the second-hand sector.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wasman.2015.07.015
PMID: 26209344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Med Decis Making. 2016 Apr;36(3):321-34. doi: 10.1177/0272989X15594369. Epub
 2015 Jul 24.

A Practical Application of Value of Information and Prospective Payback of 
Research to Prioritize Evaluative Research.

Andronis L(1), Billingham LJ(2), Bryan S(3), James ND(4), Barton PM(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Unit, University of Birmingham, UK (LA, PMB)
(2)Cancer Research UK Clinical Trials Unit, University of Birmingham, UK, and 
MRC Midland Hub for Trials Methodology Research, University of Birmingham, UK 
(LJB)
(3)Centre for Clinical Epidemiology & Evaluation, Vancouver Coastal Health 
Research Institute, Canada (SB)
(4)Cancer Research Unit, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, UK (NDJ)

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Efforts to ensure that funded research represents 
"value for money" have led to increasing calls for the use of analytic methods 
in research prioritization. A number of analytic approaches have been proposed 
to assist research funding decisions, the most prominent of which are value of 
information (VOI) and prospective payback of research (PPoR). Despite the 
increasing interest in the topic, there are insufficient VOI and PPoR 
applications on the same case study to contrast their methods and compare their 
outcomes. We undertook VOI and PPoR analyses to determine the value of 
conducting 2 proposed research programs. The application served as a vehicle for 
identifying differences and similarities between the methods, provided insight 
into the assumptions and practical requirements of undertaking prospective 
analyses for research prioritization, and highlighted areas for future research.
METHODS: VOI and PPoR were applied to case studies representing proposals for 
clinical trials in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer and prostate cancer. 
Decision models were built to synthesize the evidence available prior to the 
funding decision. VOI (expected value of perfect and sample information) and 
PPoR (PATHS model) analyses were undertaken using the developed models.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: VOI and PPoR results agreed in direction, suggesting 
that the proposed trials would be cost-effective investments. However, results 
differed in magnitude, largely due to the way each method conceptualizes the 
possible outcomes of further research and the implementation of research results 
in practice. Compared with VOI, PPoR is less complex but requires more 
assumptions. Although the approaches are not free from limitations, they can 
provide useful input for research funding decisions.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X15594369
PMID: 26209474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Med Decis Making. 2016 Feb;36(2):199-209. doi: 10.1177/0272989X15594370.
Epub  2015 Jul 24.

Valuation of Child Behavioral Problems from the Perspective of US Adults.

Craig BM(1), Brown DS(2), Reeve BB(3).

Author information:
(1)Health Outcomes and Behavior, Moffitt Cancer Center and University of South 
Florida, Tampa, FL, USA (BMC)
(2)Brown School and Institute for Public Health, Washington University in St. 
Louis, St Louis, MO, USA (DSB)
(3)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center and Gillings School of Global Public 
Health, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA (BBR).

OBJECTIVE: To assess preferences between child behavioral problems and estimate 
their value on a quality-adjusted life year (QALY) scale.
METHODS: Respondents, age 18 or older, drawn from a nationally representative 
panel between August 2012 and February 2013 completed a series of paired 
comparisons, each involving a choice between 2 different behavioral problems 
described using the Behavioral Problems Index (BPI), a 28-item instrument with 6 
domains (Anxious/Depressed, Headstrong, Hyperactive, Immature Dependency, 
Anti-social, and Peer Conflict/Social Withdrawal). Each behavioral problem 
lasted 1 or 2 years for an unnamed child, age 7 or 10 years, with no suggested 
relationship to the respondent. Generalized linear model analyses estimated the 
value of each problem on a QALY scale, considering its duration and the child's 
age.
RESULTS: Among 5207 eligible respondents, 4155 (80%) completed all questions. 
Across the 6 domains, problems relating to antisocial behavior were the least 
preferred, particularly the items related to cheating, lying, bullying, and 
cruelty to others.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings are the first to produce a preference-based summary 
measure of child behavioral problems on a QALY scale. The results may inform 
both clinical practice and resource allocation decisions by enhancing our 
understanding of difficult tradeoffs in how adults view child behavioral 
problems. Understanding US values also promotes national health surveillance by 
complementing conventional measures of surveillance, survival, and diagnoses.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X15594370
PMCID: PMC4698056
PMID: 26209476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: There are no conflicts of 
interest.


253. Br J Dermatol. 2015 Nov;173(5):1199-204. doi: 10.1111/bjd.14044. Epub 2015
Oct  11.

Body mass index, chronological age and hormonal status are better predictors of 
biological skin age than arm skin autofluorescence in healthy women who have 
never smoked.

Randag AC(1), Graaff R(2), Dreise MM(1), Vierkötter A(3), Werker PM(1), Stenekes 
MW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic Surgery, University Medical Center Groningen, 
University of Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, University Medical Center Groningen, University 
of Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(3)IUF - Leibniz Research Institute for Environmental Medicine, Düsseldorf, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND: As life expectancy is increasing and healthy ageing becomes more and 
more important, skin ageing is a growing topic of interest from both a medical 
and a commercial point of view. The urgency to unravel the causes of skin ageing 
is rising. However, there is a lack of objective, simple, noninvasive methods to 
assess biological skin age - a term introduced to describe how old someone 
looks, covering both the appearance and function of the skin. A rapid, 
noninvasive assessment of biological skin age would greatly facilitate the 
execution of the studies required to find the causes of skin ageing.
OBJECTIVES: To find an objective, easy-to-apply method to assess biological skin 
age.
METHODS: Skin age score (SAS) was compared with skin autofluorescence, a measure 
of advanced glycation end products in the skin, and several subject 
characteristics in 32 healthy, white women with little sun-exposed skin and no 
history of smoking.
RESULTS: A moderate, positive correlation (R(2) = 0·32, P = 0·001) between SAS 
and skin autofluorescence-based biological skin age was found. However, the 
variation in biological skin age according to SAS could be explained better by 
body mass index, chronological age and hormonal status (R(2) = 0·86, P < 0·001).
CONCLUSIONS: In the current setting skin autofluorescence did not contribute 
better to the prediction of biological skin age than chronological age. 
Biological skin age was best predicted by body mass index, chronological age and 
hormonal status, and this approach provides a considerable simplification of the 
application of biological skin age.

© 2015 British Association of Dermatologists.

DOI: 10.1111/bjd.14044
PMID: 26211555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. J Bone Miner Res. 2015 Sep;30(9):1551-2. doi: 10.1002/jbmr.2601.

Osteoporosis: Treat or Let Die Twice More Likely.

Nguyen TV(1)(2)(3), Seeman E(4).

Author information:
(1)Osteoporosis and Bone Biology Division, Garvan Institute of Medical Research, 
Sydney, Australia.
(2)School of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of New South Wales 
(UNSW), Sydney, Australia.
(3)Center for Health Technologies, University of Technology, Sydney, Australia.
(4)Department of Medicine and Endocrinology, Austin Health, University of 
Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia.

Comment on
    J Bone Miner Res. 2015 Sep;30(9):1553-9.

DOI: 10.1002/jbmr.2601
PMID: 26211643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Curr Aging Sci. 2015;8(2):147-57. doi: 10.2174/1874609808666150727111530.

Cellular Aging, Senescence and Autophagy Processes in Osteoarthritis.

Benderdour M, Martel-Pelletier J, Pelletier JP, Kapoor M, Zunzunegui MV, Fahmi 
H(1).

Author information:
(1)CRCHUM, 900 rue Saint-Denis, Suite R11.424, Montreal, QC, CANADA H2X 0A9. 
h.fahmi@umontreal.ca.

Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common form of arthritis and a huge health and 
financial burden. The prevalence and incidence of OA are likely to rise due to 
increasing life expectancy. Although the link between aging and OA is well 
established, little is known about the mechanisms by which aging contributes to 
OA development. In recent years, progress has been made in understanding the 
molecular mechanisms of chondrocyte aging and senescence. Aging and senescent 
chondrocytes display a senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) 
associated with increased secretion of pro-inflammatory mediators, extracellular 
matrix degrading enzymes and oxidative stress, all of which can contribute to 
the development and progression of OA. There is also evidence that autophagy, an 
essential homeostatic process, declines with aging and during OA. This review 
will focus on our current understanding of chondrocyte aging, senescence, and 
autophagy and their potential roles in the development and progression of OA. An 
understanding of these processes would be very useful in devising strategies to 
treat OA or to delay its development.

DOI: 10.2174/1874609808666150727111530
PMID: 26212056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Br J Nutr. 2015 Aug 28;114(4):645-53. doi: 10.1017/S0007114515002214. Epub
2015  Jul 27.

Adherence to the food-based Japanese dietary guidelines in relation to metabolic 
risk factors in young Japanese women.

Nishimura T(1), Murakami K(1), Livingstone MB(2), Sasaki S(3), Uenishi K(4); 
Japan Dietetic Students' Study for Nutrition and Biomarkers Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition,School of Human Cultures, University of Shiga 
Prefecture,Hikone, Shiga522 8533,Japan.
(2)Northern Ireland Centre for Food and Health, Ulster University,Coleraine,UK.
(3)Department of Social and Preventive Epidemiology,School of Public Health, 
University of Tokyo,Tokyo,Japan.
(4)Laboratory of Physiological Nutrition, Kagawa Nutrition 
University,Saitama,Japan.

While Japanese diets have attracted considerable attention because of, for 
example, the long-life expectancy in Japan, their health benefits have not been 
examined. In the present study, we cross-sectionally examined whether adherence 
to the food-based Japanese dietary guidelines is associated with metabolic risk 
factors in 1083 Japanese women aged 18-22 years. Based on the Japanese Food 
Guide Spinning Top, adherence to the food-based Japanese dietary guidelines was 
assessed using dietary information on consumed servings of grain dishes, 
vegetable dishes, fish and meat dishes, milk and fruits and energy from snacks 
and alcoholic beverages during the preceding month, which was derived from a 
comprehensive diet history questionnaire. Higher dietary adherence was 
associated with higher intakes of protein, carbohydrate, dietary fibre, Na, K 
and vitamin C, and lower intakes of total and saturated fat. There was also an 
inverse association between dietary adherence and dietary energy density. After 
adjustment for potential confounding factors, dietary adherence was inversely 
associated with waist circumference (P for trend = 0·002). It also showed an 
inverse association with LDL-cholesterol concentrations (P for trend = 0·04). 
There was no association with the other metabolic risk factors examined, 
including BMI, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, total and HDL-cholesterol, 
TAG, glucose, glycated Hb and insulin concentrations. In conclusion, higher 
adherence to the food-based Japanese dietary guidelines, which was characterised 
by favourable dietary intakes of foods and nutrients as well as lower energy 
density, was associated with lower waist circumference and LDL-cholesterol 
concentrations in this group of young Japanese women.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114515002214
PMID: 26212663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Food Chem. 2016 Jan 1;190:448-453. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2015.05.107. Epub
 2015 May 27.

Effects of preharvest applications of methyl jasmonate and chitosan on 
postharvest decay, quality and chemical attributes of Fragaria chiloensis fruit.

