
Biologic versus Synthetic Mesh Reinforcement: What are the Pros and Cons?

FitzGerald JF(1), Kumar AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Colon and Rectal Surgery, MedStar Washington Hospital Center, 
Washington, DC.

Preserving patients' native tissues has posed many challenges for surgeons. 
Increased life expectancy is leading to a proportionately older surgical 
population with weaker tissues. The growing population of morbidly obese 
patients in addition to those with multiple comorbidities which influence the 
native strength and perfusion of tissues compounds the surgeon's challenge. 
Certainly, there is a rising demand for materials to replace or augment a 
patient's native tissue when it has been compromised. Over time, the number of 
products available has increased substantially. The ideal substitute, however, 
is debatable. The manufacturing and processing of these materials has become 
more complex and this has resulted in a significant increase in cost. The 
composition of the mesh, clinical scenario, and operative technique all interact 
to impact the long-term results. Surgeons require a thorough understanding of 
these products to guide proper selection and use, to ensure optimal outcomes for 
patients, and to properly steward financial resources. This review will outline 
the properties of commonly used materials, highlighting the strength and 
weakness of each. It will then discuss recommendations regarding mesh selection, 
coding, and reimbursement. While general principles and trends can be 
highlighted, further studies of biologic versus synthetic meshes are clearly 
necessary.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1394155
PMCID: PMC4477030
PMID: 26106284


973. Front Psychol. 2015 Jun 9;6:779. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2015.00779. eCollection 
2015.

Gender roles and traits in stress and health.

Mayor E(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Psychologie du Travail et des Organisations, Université de 
Neuchâtel , Neuchâtel, Switzerland.

Women have a life-expectancy advantage over men, but a marked disadvantage with 
regards to morbidity. This is known as the female-male health-survival paradox 
in disciplines such as medicine, medical sociology, and epidemiology. Individual 
differences in physical and mental health are further notably explained by the 
degree of stress individuals endure, with women being more affected by stressors 
than men. Here, we briefly examine the literature on women's disadvantage in 
health and stress. Beyond biological considerations, we follow with 
socio-cognitive explanations of gender differences in health and stress. We show 
that gender roles and traits (masculinity in particular) explain part of the 
gender differences in stress, notably cognitive appraisal and coping. Stress in 
turn degrades health. Implications are discussed. In conclusion, traditional 
socialization is advantageous for men in terms of health.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2015.00779
PMCID: PMC4460297
PMID: 26106354


974. Asia Pac J Ophthalmol (Phila). 2014 Mar-Apr;3(2):74-82. doi: 
10.1097/APO.0000000000000037.

Status of Ophthalmic Education and the Eye Health Workforce in South Asian 
Association for Regional Cooperation Countries.

Awan H(1), Khan MD, Felch W, Spivey B, Taylor H, Resnikoff S, Gauthier TM.

Author information:
(1)From the *Avicenna Consulting Pvt Ltd, Islamabad; †Comprehensive Health and 
Education Foundation International, University Town, Peshawar, Pakistan; and 
‡International Council of Ophthalmology, San Francisco, CA.

PURPOSE: This study aimed to assess the capacity for ophthalmic education in the 
8 South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) countries and to 
determine the need and future projections of eye health professionals in the 
region.
DESIGN: This was a retrospective study and comprised desk review and Web-based 
questionnaire.
METHODS: Developed in the Asia Pacific region, the Capacity Assessment Tool for 
SAARC Eye Care Education, a Web-based survey mechanism derived from a 12-point 
framework, was used to collect data on the number of ophthalmologists and other 
eye care personnel, training institutions, and capacity for training in each 
SAARC country.
RESULTS: There are an estimated 17,568 practicing ophthalmologists and 4086 
ophthalmic subspecialists in the SAARC region. The population per 
ophthalmologist is approximately 92,270. Allied eye health professionals 
constitute an important element of the eye health workforce and have a 
population per allied eye health professional of approximately 99,852; the 
ophthalmologist to doctor (physician) ratio is 1:61. There are more than 510 
centers providing ophthalmology training and more than 32 centers providing 
subspecialty training; ophthalmic subspecialty training varies from a 3-month 
observership to a 12-month hands-on training.
CONCLUSIONS: In the SAARC region, the challenge is to sustain and increase the 
eye health workforce to meet the needs of a growing and aging population. The 
demographic transitions, improved child survival and life expectancy rates, and 
emerging noncommunicable disease trends require training of ophthalmic 
subspecialists and supporting eye care teams to meet the service delivery 
demands of changing eye health paradigms.

DOI: 10.1097/APO.0000000000000037
PMID: 26107489


975. Int J Palliat Nurs. 2015 May;21(5):251-5. doi: 10.12968/ijpn.2015.21.5.251.

Assisting patients with motor neurone disease to make decisions about their 
care.

Gale C(1).

Author information:
(1)Linical Nurse Specialist in Palliative Care, Phyllis Tuckwell Hospice, 
Surrey, UK.

Motor neurone disease (MND), is a progressive terminal illness affecting the 
central nervous system, causing paralysis of the muscles affecting limb 
movement, breathing and bulbar function, with an average life expectancy of 2-4 
years. Patients are presented with repeated loss and the constant need to make 
adjustments to their lifestyle and expectations. Within palliative care there 
has been a move to formalise planning by undertaking advance care planning, 
giving the patient the opportunity to plan whether they would consider medical 
interventions and how they would like their care and death to be managed. There 
are now a multitude of forms and documents to complete if the patient is willing 
to do so. Advance care planning may not be something all patients wish to 
embrace, and this poses the question of whether there are cases where the 
repeated demand to think forward to a time when further losses are experienced 
is serving the agenda of the health professional at the expense of the patient. 
Nevertheless, health professionals might be concerned that a delay in decision 
making could impact on the patient's future care. There is potential for 
conflict between the wish of the patient--to remain focused on the positive--and 
the health professional's perception of the benefits of completing an advance 
care plan or discussing interventions which, if persued, might lead to a 
breakdown of the therapeutic relationship. A more flexible approach, focusing on 
the agenda set by the patient, underpinned by a therapeutic and trusting 
relationship, can avoid distress for the patient, while ensuring good care and 
the best outcome for the patient.

DOI: 10.12968/ijpn.2015.21.5.251
PMID: 26107548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Asia Pac J Ophthalmol (Phila). 2014 Sep-Oct;3(5):267-70. doi: 
10.1097/APO.0000000000000033.

Increased Gait Speed After Cataract Surgery Confers Longer Predicted Survival.

Ayaki M(1), Negishi K, Tsubota K.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Ophthalmology, Keio University School of Medicine, 
Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: Cataract surgery has potential systemic health effects. Gait speed is a 
potential health index of predicted life expectancy and incidence of severe 
illness. We thus measured quality of vision and gait speed before and after 
cataract surgery.
DESIGN: A prospective clinical study.
METHODS: We followed up 30 patients for 6 months following cataract surgery by 
implantation of a yellow soft acrylic lens. A 4-m gait speed was determined, and 
patients were evaluated before and after surgery using the National Eye 
Institute Visual Function Questionnaire (vision-related quality of life) as well 
as ophthalmological and systemic examinations. Life span was estimated on the 
basis of standard curves derived from a literature.
RESULTS: Mean preoperative gait speed was 0.81 ± 0.23 m/s, with significant 
increases recorded at 2 and 6 months after surgery to 0.85 ± 0.20 and 0.91 ± 
0.22 m/s, respectively (P < 0.01, paired t test). According to patient survival 
determined by gait speed, life expectancy (years) before and 6 months after 
surgery was approximately 83.4 and 84.9, respectively, for men (1.5-year 
increase) and 88.8 and 89.8, respectively, for women (1.0-year increase). The 
mean preoperative 25-item Visual Function Questionnaire score was 59.2 ± 16.3, 
and significant improvements were observed 2 months (76.2 ± 13.9) and 6 months 
(78.6 ± 14.4) after surgery (P < 0.001, vs preoperative score).
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, cataract surgery improved quality of vision and gait 
speed for 6 months.

DOI: 10.1097/APO.0000000000000033
PMID: 26107912


977. Jt Comm J Qual Patient Saf. 2015 Jul;41(7):313-22. doi: 
10.1016/s1553-7250(15)41041-4.

Redefining Overuse to Include Costs: A Decision Analysis for Computed Tomography 
in Minor Head Injury.

Melnick ER(1), Keegan J, Taylor RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut, USA.

BACKGROUND: A study was conducted to (1) determine the testing threshold for 
head computed tomography (CT) in minor head injury in the emergency department 
using decision analysis with and without costs included in the analysis, (2) to 
determine which variables have significant impact on the testing threshold, and 
(3) to compare this calculated testing threshold to the pretest risk estimate 
previously reported when the Canadian CT Head Rule (CCHR) was applied. It was 
hypothesized that the CCHR might not identify all patients above the testing 
threshold.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was constructed using commercially available 
software and data from published literature. Outcomes were assigned values on 
the basis of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and cost. Two testing 
thresholds were calculated, the first based only on the effectiveness of either 
strategy, the second on the overall net monetary benefit. Two-way sensitivity 
analyses were performed to determine which variables most affected the testing 
threshold.
RESULTS: When only effectiveness (QALYs) was considered, the testing threshold 
for obtaining head CT was 0.039%. This threshold increased to 0.421% when the 
net monetary benefit was considered in lieu of QALYs. Age, probability of lesion 
on CT requiring neurosurgery, and cost of CT were the main drivers of the model.
CONCLUSION: If only effectiveness is considered, current clinical decision rules 
might not provide a sufficient degree of certainty to ensure identification of 
all patients for whom the benefits of CT outweigh its risks. However, inclusion 
of cost in the analysis increases the testing threshold by an order of magnitude 
and well outside the range of uncertainty of current clinical decision rules. 
These results suggest that the term overuse should be redefined to include the 
provision of medical services with no benefits or for which harms including cost 
outweigh benefits.

DOI: 10.1016/s1553-7250(15)41041-4
PMID: 26108124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Int J Epidemiol. 2015 Oct;44(5):1549-56. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyv105. Epub 2015
Jun  23.

Data Resource Profile: The Human Mortality Database (HMD).

Barbieri M(1), Wilmoth JR(2), Shkolnikov VM(3), Glei D(4), Jasilionis D(5), 
Jdanov D(3), Boe C(6), Riffe T(6), Grigoriev P(5), Winant C(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Demography, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA, French 
Institute for Demographic Studies, Paris, France, magali@demog.berkeley.edu.
(2)Department of Demography, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA, 
Population Division, United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, 
New York, NY, USA.
(3)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany, New Economic 
School, Moscow, Russia and.
(4)Georgetown University, Washington, DC, USA.
(5)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany.
(6)Department of Demography, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyv105
PMCID: PMC4707194
PMID: 26108436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. BMC Med. 2015 Jun 24;13:148. doi: 10.1186/s12916-015-0364-x.

A new resource for identifying and assessing the impacts of research.

Hinrichs S(1), Grant J(2).

Author information:
(1)The Policy Institute at King's College London, 1st Floor, Virginia Woolf 
Building, 22 Kingsway, London, WC2B 6LE, UK. saba.hinrichs@kcl.ac.uk.
(2)The Policy Institute at King's College London, 1st Floor, Virginia Woolf 
Building, 22 Kingsway, London, WC2B 6LE, UK. jonathan.grant@kcl.ac.uk.

The impact case studies submitted by UK Higher Education Institutions to the 
Research Excellence Framework (REF) in 2014 provide a rich resource of text 
describing impact beyond academia and across all disciplines. Using text mining 
techniques and qualitative assessment, the 6,679 non-redacted case studies 
submitted were analysed and the impact described was found to be 
multidisciplinary, multi-impactful, and multinational. By digging deeper into 
the data, the health gains from health research in terms of Quality Adjusted 
Life Years was also estimated. Similar analyses are possible using these case 
studies, but will require the data to be 're-purposed' from the original 
intention (i.e., for assessment purposes) for robust analysis.

DOI: 10.1186/s12916-015-0364-x
PMCID: PMC4479084
PMID: 26108576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2016 Jan;49(1):44-51. doi: 10.1007/s00391-015-0920-1.
Epub  2015 Jun 25.

[Cancer screening in the elderly: Explorative mixed methods study].

[Article in German]

Dolezil D(1), Haase A(2), Jahnke K(1), Thonack J(1), Löffler C(3), Schmidt 
CO(4), Chenot JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Allgemeinmedizin, Institut für Community Medicine, 
Universitätsmedizin Greifswald KdöR, Fleischmannstr. 42-44, 17475, Greifswald, 
Deutschland.
(2)Abteilung Allgemeinmedizin, Institut für Community Medicine, 
Universitätsmedizin Greifswald KdöR, Fleischmannstr. 42-44, 17475, Greifswald, 
Deutschland. allgemeinmedizin@uni-greifswald.de.
(3)Institut für Allgemeinmedizin, Universitätsmedizin Rostock, Rostock, 
Deutschland.
(4)Abteilung Study of Health in Pomerania - Klinisch-epidemiologische Forschung 
(Shinterviewpartner-KEF), Institut für Community Medicine, Universitätsmedizin 
Greifswald, Greifswald, Deutschland.

BACKGROUND: The benefits of cancer screening in the elderly are uncertain. While 
the risk of cancer increases with age the participation in cancer screening 
decreases.
AIM: The study investigated the attitudes of older adults towards cancer 
screening as well as their motives for or against participation.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This population-based explorative mixed methods study was 
based on a survey of residents aged 69-89 years from the district of Western 
Pomerania-Greifswald (northeast Germany). Criteria for exclusion were cognitive 
deficits and/or cancer. Attitudes towards different statements regarding cancer 
screening were assessed by a questionnaire using 5-point Likert scales. 
Semi-structured interviews were used to explore the motivations.
RESULTS: Out of 630 contacted residents, 120 (19%) with an average age of 77 
years (SD ± 6 years) participated in the face-to-face survey. The majority were 
in favor of lifelong cancer screening, 14% stated other health problems to be 
more important than cancer screening and 7% assumed that they would not live 
long enough to benefit from screening. Motives for participation in cancer 
screening were habit, regularity, sense of obligation, fear and belief in 
benefits. Motives for discontinuing screening included a lack of interest, no 
assumed necessity and fear. Disadvantages were not feared.
CONCLUSION: Elderly people show great trust in cancer screening. They 
overestimated the benefits of cancer screening and their risk to die of cancer. 
The elderly should be better informed about the benefits and risks of cancer 
screening. Shared decision-making should be based on life expectancy and 
personal preferences.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-015-0920-1
PMID: 26108994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Physiol Rev. 2015 Jul;95(3):809-52. doi: 10.1152/physrev.00033.2014.

Mechanisms Regulating Neuromuscular Junction Development and Function and Causes 
of Muscle Wasting.

Tintignac LA(1), Brenner HR(1), Rüegg MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Biozentrum, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; Department of 
Biomedicine, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; and INRA, UMR866 Dynamique 
Musculaire et Métabolisme, Montpellier, France.

The neuromuscular junction is the chemical synapse between motor neurons and 
skeletal muscle fibers. It is designed to reliably convert the action potential 
from the presynaptic motor neuron into the contraction of the postsynaptic 
muscle fiber. Diseases that affect the neuromuscular junction may cause failure 
of this conversion and result in loss of ambulation and respiration. The loss of 
motor input also causes muscle wasting as muscle mass is constantly adapted to 
contractile needs by the balancing of protein synthesis and protein degradation. 
Finally, neuromuscular activity and muscle mass have a major impact on metabolic 
properties of the organisms. This review discusses the mechanisms involved in 
the development and maintenance of the neuromuscular junction, the consequences 
of and the mechanisms involved in its dysfunction, and its role in maintaining 
muscle mass during aging. As life expectancy is increasing, loss of muscle mass 
during aging, called sarcopenia, has emerged as a field of high medical need. 
Interestingly, aging is also accompanied by structural changes at the 
neuromuscular junction, suggesting that the mechanisms involved in neuromuscular 
junction maintenance might be disturbed during aging. In addition, there is now 
evidence that behavioral paradigms and signaling pathways that are involved in 
longevity also affect neuromuscular junction stability and sarcopenia.

Copyright © 2015 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/physrev.00033.2014
PMID: 26109340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. J Res Med Sci. 2015 Mar;20(3):250-2.

Trends in ageing of the population and the life expectancy after retirement: A 
comparative country-based analysis.

Izekenova AK(1), Kumar AB(2), Abikulova AK(2), Izekenova AK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Suleyman Demirel University, Almaty, Kazakhstan.
(2)Department of International Healthcare, Asfendiyarov Kazakh National Medical 
University, Almaty, Kazakhstan.

BACKGROUND: During the 20(th) century, the share of elderly in the total 
population of the Earth has increased steadily. It is expected that this trend 
will continue in the 21(st) century. In 1950, the elderly (persons aged 60 years 
and older) were 8% of the world population; in 2000, is already 10%; and in 
2050, according to United Nations projections, the proportion will reach 21%. 
This research on Kazakhstan provides demographic analysis from 1989 to 2012 and 
presents the main features of population' ageing through comparative analysis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used information-analytical, content-analysis, 
mathematical treatment and comparative analysis of statistical data on 
demographic status in Kazakhstan and some other countries of the world (UK, USA, 
Turkey, Russia) over the 1989-2012.
RESULTS: Age dependency ratio of the Russian federation - >1.7 times, in the 
USA-up to 1.9 times and the UK has dependency ratio higher than 2.5 times of 
similar indicators in Kazakhstan in 2010.
CONCLUSION: Life expectancy of the elderly population KZ after 65 years in 2010 
was only 13.8 years, which is 6-9 years inferior to European and U.S. indices. 
Thus, increasing the retirement age is inappropriate for the current period.

PMCID: PMC4468229
PMID: 26109971

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


983. Community Dent Oral Epidemiol. 2015 Dec;43(6):560-8. doi:
10.1111/cdoe.12181.  Epub 2015 Jun 25.

Relative cost-effectiveness of home visits and telephone contacts in preventing 
early childhood caries.

Koh R(1), Pukallus M(2), Kularatna S(3), Gordon LG(3), Barnett AG(4), Walsh 
LJ(1), Seow WK(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Paediatric Dentistry, Oral Health Centre, The University of 
Queensland, Herston, Qld, Australia.
(2)Oral Health Program (Logan-Beaudesert Division), Metro South Health, Logan 
City, Qld, Australia.
(3)Centre for Applied Health Economics, Menzies Health Institute, Queensland, 
School of Medicine, Griffith University, Meadowbrook, Qld, Australia.
(4)Institute of Health and Biomedical Innovation, Queensland University of 
Technology, Brisbane, Qld, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a home-visit intervention 
conducted by oral health therapists relative to a telephone-based alternative 
and no intervention.
METHODS: A Markov model was built to combine data on dental caries incidence, 
dental treatments, quality of life and costs for a cohort of children from age 
6 months to 6 years. The probabilities of developing caries and subsequent 
treatments were derived primarily from the key intervention study. The outcome 
measures were costs (US dollars), quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and the 
number of carious teeth prevented. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses were used to test the stability of the model.
RESULTS: For every group of 100 children, the model predicted that having the 
home-visit intervention would save $167 032 and telephone contacts $144 709 over 
5½ years relative to no intervention (usual care). The home visits and telephone 
intervention would prevent 113 and 100 carious teeth (per 100 children) relative 
to no intervention in a period of 5½ years. Sensitivity analysis showed that a 
lower rate of caries reduced the intervention's cost-effectiveness primarily 
through reducing general anaesthesia costs. The home visits and telephone 
interventions resulted in 7 and 6 QALYs, respectively, gained over the usual 
care group for the 100 children over 5½ years. Both interventions were 
'dominant,' as they saved costs and produced health benefits over usual care.
CONCLUSIONS: Both the home visits and telephone-based community interventions 
conducted by oral health therapists were highly cost-effective than no 
intervention in preventing early childhood caries.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cdoe.12181
PMID: 26110399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. J Viral Hepat. 2015 Dec;22(12):1043-54. doi: 10.1111/jvh.12432. Epub 2015
Jun  25.

Disease burden of chronic hepatitis C among immigrants in Canada.

Chen W(1)(2), Krahn M(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Toronto Health Economics and Technology Assessment Collaborative, University 
of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Division of Social and Administrative Pharmacy, Leslie Dan Faculty of 
Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Medicine, University Health Network, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada.

Immigrants with chronic hepatitis C (CHC) in Canada have doubled risk of 
hepatocellular carcinoma. To measure the burden of CHC among immigrants in 
Canada. A decision analytic model was developed to compare immigrants with CHC 
and age-matched immigrants without CHC for survival years, quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) and medical costs per life year. Hepatitis C epidemiology 
among immigrants was based on hepatitis C prevalence in their home countries. A 
cohort of immigrant patients was retrospectively followed up to estimate 
fibrosis stage distribution, treatment patterns and prognosis of compensated 
cirrhosis. Other model variables were based on published sources. Base case 
analysis, one-way sensitivity analysis and probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
were performed to measure the burden of CHC and assess the impact of uncertainty 
associated with model variables on the burden of CHC. CHC could reduce survival 
by 9.6 years [95% credible interval (CI): 8.0-10.9 years], reduce QALYs by 
9.5 years (95% CI: 6.0-13.8 years) and increase medical costs per life year by 
$1950 (95% CI: $1518 to $2486, 2006 Canadian dollars). Because nearly half of 
immigrants with CHC were not diagnosed until the development of cirrhosis, the 
burden of CHC was highly sensitive to the risks of liver-related complications 
and mortality but insensitive to pegylated interferon plus ribavirin. The burden 
of CHC among immigrants in Canada is substantial mainly due to liver-related 
complications and mortality. The delay in diagnosis was another important 
contributor to the burden of CHC among immigrants.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jvh.12432
PMID: 26110922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Am J Nurs. 2015 Jul;115(7):68-9. doi: 10.1097/01.NAJ.0000467287.30479.0f.

The Forefront of Diabetes Care.

OʼShaughnessy P.

DOI: 10.1097/01.NAJ.0000467287.30479.0f
PMID: 26110964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. PLoS Comput Biol. 2015 Jun 25;11(6):e1004310. doi:
10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004310.  eCollection 2015 Jun.

Time-Course Gene Set Analysis for Longitudinal Gene Expression Data.

Hejblum BP(1), Skinner J(2), Thiébaut R(3).

Author information:
(1)Univ. Bordeaux, ISPED, Centre INSERM U897-Epidemiologie-Biostatistique, 
F-33000 Bordeaux, France; INSERM, ISPED, Centre INSERM 
U897-Epidemiologie-Biostatistique, F-33000 Bordeaux, France; INRIA, Team SISTM, 
F-33000 Bordeaux, France; Vaccine Research Institute-VRI, Hôpital Henri Mondor, 
Créteil, France.
(2)Vaccine Research Institute-VRI, Hôpital Henri Mondor, Créteil, France; Baylor 
Institute for Immunology Research, Dallas, Texas, United States of America.
(3)Univ. Bordeaux, ISPED, Centre INSERM U897-Epidemiologie-Biostatistique, 
F-33000 Bordeaux, France; INSERM, ISPED, Centre INSERM 
U897-Epidemiologie-Biostatistique, F-33000 Bordeaux, France; INRIA, Team SISTM, 
F-33000 Bordeaux, France; Vaccine Research Institute-VRI, Hôpital Henri Mondor, 
Créteil, France; Baylor Institute for Immunology Research, Dallas, Texas, United 
States of America.

Erratum in
    PLoS Comput Biol. 2015 Aug;11(8):e1004446.

Gene set analysis methods, which consider predefined groups of genes in the 
analysis of genomic data, have been successfully applied for analyzing gene 
expression data in cross-sectional studies. The time-course gene set analysis 
(TcGSA) introduced here is an extension of gene set analysis to longitudinal 
data. The proposed method relies on random effects modeling with maximum 
likelihood estimates. It allows to use all available repeated measurements while 
dealing with unbalanced data due to missing at random (MAR) measurements. TcGSA 
is a hypothesis driven method that identifies a priori defined gene sets with 
significant expression variations over time, taking into account the potential 
heterogeneity of expression within gene sets. When biological conditions are 
compared, the method indicates if the time patterns of gene sets significantly 
differ according to these conditions. The interest of the method is illustrated 
by its application to two real life datasets: an HIV therapeutic vaccine trial 
(DALIA-1 trial), and data from a recent study on influenza and pneumococcal 
vaccines. In the DALIA-1 trial TcGSA revealed a significant change in gene 
expression over time within 69 gene sets during vaccination, while a standard 
univariate individual gene analysis corrected for multiple testing as well as a 
standard a Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) for time series both failed to 
detect any significant pattern change over time. When applied to the second 
illustrative data set, TcGSA allowed the identification of 4 gene sets finally 
found to be linked with the influenza vaccine too although they were found to be 
associated to the pneumococcal vaccine only in previous analyses. In our 
simulation study TcGSA exhibits good statistical properties, and an increased 
power compared to other approaches for analyzing time-course expression patterns 
of gene sets. The method is made available for the community through an R 
package.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004310
PMCID: PMC4482329
PMID: 26111374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


987. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. 2015;11(8):1329-37. doi: 
10.1517/17425255.2015.1061504. Epub 2015 Jun 25.

Perampanel for epilepsy with partial-onset seizures: a pharmacokinetic and 
pharmacodynamic evaluation.

Schulze-Bonhage A(1).

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Freiburg, Epilepsy Center , Breisacher Str. 64, D-79106 
Freiburg, Germany , Europe +49 761 270 53660 ; +49 761 270 50030 ; 
andreas.schulze-bonhage@uniklinik-freiburg.de.

INTRODUCTION: Epilepsies are among the most common diseases of the CNS. As 
available antiepileptic drugs do not successfully control seizures in one-third 
of these patients, the development of drugs with new mechanisms of action is an 
urgent requirement.
AREAS COVERED: Preclinical and clinical data of the recently released 
antiepileptic drug perampanel are reviewed based on search in medical databases 
with special reference to its mechanism of action and to its pharmacokinetic 
properties relevant for clinical treatment. Pharmacodynamically, perampanel is a 
noncompetitive AMPA-receptor antagonist exerting its antiepileptic properties by 
modulating glutamatergic synaptic excitation. Pharmacokinetically, perampanel is 
characterized by a short Tmax but slow hepatic metabolism and a mean plasma 
half-life of 105 h, allowing for once-daily dosing. Perampanel has shown 
antiepileptic properties in several animal models of seizures and epilepsy, and 
in clinical studies significantly reducing partial-onset seizures in a dose 
range from 4 to 12 mg/day both in blinded short-term and in open-label long-term 
extension trials even in highly pharmacoresistant patients. Aside from adverse 
effects of dizziness and somnolence, neuropsychiatric disturbances have been 
reported in patient subgroups, making careful clinical monitoring during 
uptitration recommendable.
EXPERT OPINION: The use of perampanel focusing on control of abnormal synaptic 
excitation profits from favorable pharmacokinetics and from proven efficacy and 
overall good tolerability also in patient populations nonresponsive to treatment 
with previously available antiepileptic drugs.

DOI: 10.1517/17425255.2015.1061504
PMID: 26111428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. J Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2015 Sep;56(9):1026-33. doi: 10.1111/jcpp.12438.
 Epub 2015 Jun 26.

The population cost-effectiveness of a parenting intervention designed to 
prevent anxiety disorders in children.

Mihalopoulos C(1), Vos T(2), Rapee RM(3), Pirkis J(4), Chatterton ML(1), Lee 
YC(1), Carter R(1).

Author information:
(1)Deakin Health Economics, Deakin University, Melbourne, Vic., Australia.
(2)Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(3)Centre for Emotional Health, Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(4)Centre for Health Policy Programs and Economics, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Vic., Australia.

BACKGROUND: Prevention and early intervention for anxiety disorders has lagged 
behind many other forms of mental disorder. Recent research has demonstrated the 
efficacy of a parent-focussed psycho-educational programme. The programme is 
directed at parents of inhibited preschool children and has been shown to reduce 
anxiety disorders at 1 and 3 years following intervention. The current study 
assesses the cost-effectiveness of this intervention to determine whether it 
could provide value-for-money across a population.
METHOD: A cost-utility economic framework, using Disability-Adjusted-Life-Years 
(DALYs) as the outcome, was adopted. Economic modelling techniques were used to 
assess the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of the intervention 
within the Australian population context, which was modelled as add-on to 
current practice. The perspective was the health sector. Uncertainty was 
measured using multivariate probabilistic testing and key assumptions were 
tested using univariate sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: The median ICER for the intervention was AUD$8,000 per DALY averted 
with 99.8% of the uncertainty iterations falling below the threshold 
value-for-money criterion of AUD$50,000 per DALY averted. The results were 
robust to sensitivity testing.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening young children in a preschool setting for an inhibited 
temperament and providing a brief intervention to the parents of children with 
high levels of inhibition appears to provide very good value-for-money and worth 
considering in any package of preventive care. Further evaluation of this 
intervention under routine health service conditions will strengthen 
conclusions. Acceptability issues associated with this intervention, 
particularly to preschool staff and parents, need to be considered before 
wide-scale adoption is undertaken.

© 2015 Association for Child and Adolescent Mental Health.

DOI: 10.1111/jcpp.12438
PMID: 26111550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Pediatr Rheumatol Online J. 2015 Jun 26;13:27. doi:
10.1186/s12969-015-0025-9.

Preliminary experience using milnacipran in patients with juvenile fibromyalgia: 
lessons from a clinical trial program.

Arnold LM(1), Bateman L(2), Palmer RH(3), Lin Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Women's Health Research Program, University of Cincinnati College of 
Medicine, 260 Stetson Street, Suite 3200, Cincinnati, OH, 45219, USA. 
arnoldlm@ucmail.uc.edu.
(2)Fatigue Consultation Clinic, 1002 E. South Temple Street, Suite 408, Salt 
Lake City, UT, 84102, USA. lbateman@fcclinic.com.
(3)Forest Research Institute, an affiliate of Actavis, Inc., Harborside 
Financial Center, Plaza V, Suite 1900, Jersey City, NJ, 07311, USA. 
Bob.Palmer@actavis.com.
(4)Forest Research Institute, an affiliate of Actavis, Inc., Harborside 
Financial Center, Plaza V, Suite 1900, Jersey City, NJ, 07311, USA. 
Jennifer.Lin@actavis.com.

BACKGROUND: There are no approved medications for juvenile fibromyalgia (JFM), a 
disorder that is often under-diagnosed. The effects of milnacipran, a drug 
approved for the management of fibromyalgia (FM) in adults, was assessed in a 
clinical trial program for JFM.
METHODS: Patients, ages 13-17 years who met the Yunus and Masi criteria for JFM 
and/or 1990 American College of Rheumatology criteria for FM, were enrolled in a 
responder-enriched, randomized withdrawal trial. After receiving open-label 
milnacipran (8 weeks), patients with ≥50 % improvement in pain underwent 
double-blind randomization (1:2) to either placebo or continuing treatment with 
milnacipran (8 weeks). All patients, including those who did not meet the 
randomization criteria for double-blind withdrawal, were allowed to enter an 
extension study with open-label milnacipran (up to 52 weeks). The primary 
endpoint was loss of therapeutic response (LTR) during the double-blind period. 
Additional outcome measures included the Patient Global Impression of Severity 
(PGIS), Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL: Generic Core Scales, 
Multidimensional Fatigue Scale), and Multidimensional Anxiety Scale for Children 
(MASC). Safety assessments included adverse events (AEs), vital signs, 
electrocardiograms, and laboratory tests.
RESULTS: The milnacipran program was terminated early due to low enrollment. 
Because only 20 patients were randomized into the double-blind withdrawal 
period, statistical analyses were not conducted for the LTR endpoint. However, 
116 patients entered the open-label period of the initial study and 57 
participated in the open-label extension study. Their experience provides 
preliminary information about the use of milnacipran in JFM patients. During 
both open-label periods, there were mean improvements in pain severity, PGIC, 
PedsQL, and MASC scores. No unexpected safety issues were detected. The most 
commonly reported treatment-emergent AEs were nausea, headache, vomiting, and 
dizziness. Mean increases in heart rate and blood pressure were observed, and 
were consistent with the AE profile in adults with FM.
CONCLUSIONS: The open-label findings provide preliminary evidence that 
milnacipran may improve symptoms of JFM, with a safety and tolerability profile 
that is consistent with the experience in adult FM patients. Future trial 
designs for JFM should consider the relatively low recognition of this condition 
compared to adult FM and the difficulties with enrollment.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT01328002 ; NCT01331109.

DOI: 10.1186/s12969-015-0025-9
PMCID: PMC4480575
PMID: 26112278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Asian J Androl. 2016 Jan-Feb;18(1):85-9. doi: 10.4103/1008-682X.149180.

Long-term recovery of normal sexual function in testicular cancer survivors.

Capogrosso P, Boeri L, Ferrari M, Ventimiglia E, La Croce G, Capitanio U, 
Briganti A, Damiano R, Montorsi F, Salonia A(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Experimental Oncology, Unit of Urology, URI, IRCCS Ospedale San 
Raffaele, Milan; Research Doctorate Program in Urology, Magna Graecia 
University, Catanzaro, Italy.

Testicular cancer (TC) is the most common solid cancer in men between the third 
and fourth decade of life. Due to successful treatment approaches, TC survivors 
(TCSs) have long life expectancy, but with numerous potential long-term 
sequelae, including sexual dysfunction. We investigated predictors of long-term 
normal sexual function (SF) recovery in TCSs. Sociodemographic, medical, and 
psychometric data were analyzed in 143 Caucasian-European TCSs, who underwent 
orchiectomy at a single institution. Health-significant comorbidities were 
scored with the Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI). Patients completed the 
International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF). Statistical models tested the 
association between predictors (including age at surgery, body mass index, CCI, 
and adjuvant therapy: radiotherapy [RT], chemotherapy [CT], CT followed by 
retroperitoneal lymph node dissection [RPLND] and RPLND alone) and the long-term 
recovery of normal SF (defined as IIEF-erectile function [EF] ≥26, and sexual 
desire [SD], intercourse satisfaction [IS] orgasmic function [OF], and overall 
satisfaction [OS] domain scores in the upper tertiles). At a mean follow-up of 
86 months, 35 (25.5%) TCSs had erectile dysfunction (ED), with 16 (11.2%) 
experiencing severe ED. Median time of EF recovery was 60, 60, and 70 months 
after CT, RT, and RPLND, respectively. Only adjuvant RT emerged as an 
independent predictor of nonrecovery of normal EF (HR: 0.55, P= 0.01). Neither 
adjuvant CT nor CT plus RPLND or RPLND alone significantly impaired the recovery 
of normal erections. Adjuvant therapy was not associated with impaired recovery 
of normal sexuality as a whole, considering the IIEF-SD, -OF, -IS, and OS 
domains.

DOI: 10.4103/1008-682X.149180
PMCID: PMC4736362
PMID: 26112476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Alcohol Alcohol. 2015 Nov;50(6):661-9. doi: 10.1093/alcalc/agv068. Epub 2015
Jun  25.

The Socioeconomic Differences in Alcohol-Related Harm and the Effects of Alcohol 
Prices on Them: A Summary of Evidence from Finland.

Mäkelä P(1), Herttua K(2), Martikainen P(3).

Author information:
(1)Alcohol and Drugs Unit, National Institute for Health and Welfare, Helsinki, 
Finland pia.makela@thl.fi.
(2)Population Research Unit, Department of Social Research, University of 
Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland Centre of Maritime Health and Society, Department of 
Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Esbjerg, Denmark.
(3)Population Research Unit, Department of Social Research, University of 
Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, 
Rostock, Germany.

AIMS: We make a case study of Finland to study the connections between 
socioeconomic status, alcohol use, related harm and possibilities for 
intervention by means of alcohol pricing.
METHODS: A review of Finnish studies on the topic.
RESULTS: The socioeconomic differences in severe alcohol-related harm were 
great, and in the past two decades, these differences have widened. 
Alcohol-related mortality has also strongly contributed to both the level and 
widening of socioeconomic differences in life expectancy. Both in 2004, when 
alcohol prices were abruptly cut, and in the longer term with more gradual 
changes in lowest prices of alcohol, the lowest socioeconomic groups were most 
affected in absolute-but not so clearly in relative-terms, particularly among 
men. However, these effects are sometimes weak, not fully consistent by gender 
and across different measures of harm.
CONCLUSIONS: The large and increasing socioeconomic differences in 
alcohol-related harm in Finland underline the importance of reducing these 
differences. The finding that particularly among men the impact of reduced 
alcohol prices on health has often in absolute terms been the greatest in the 
lower socioeconomic groups suggests that policies aimed at keeping the price of 
alcoholic beverages high may help to both minimize the overall level of 
alcohol-related health problems and to reduce absolute inequalities.

© The Author 2015. Medical Council on Alcohol and Oxford University Press. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/alcalc/agv068
PMID: 26113490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Nutr Clin Pract. 2015 Aug;30(4):488-500. doi: 10.1177/0884533615591604. Epub
 2015 Jun 25.

Nutrition Management of Cystic Fibrosis in the 21st Century.

Schindler T(1), Michel S(2), Wilson AW(3).

Author information:
(1)Rainbow Babies and Children's Hospital Case Medical Center, Cleveland, Ohio 
Terri.Schindler@UHhospitals.org.
(2)Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina.
(3)National Jewish Health, Denver, Colorado.

Despite significant advancements made in life expectancy over the past century, 
cystic fibrosis remains a life-threatening genetic disease that affects the 
gastrointestinal tract, and it has significant impact on the nutrition status of 
those with the disease. Nutrition management includes a high-calorie/high-fat 
diet, pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy, vitamin and mineral replacement, 
and enteral support as needed. As patients are living longer, clinicians may 
encounter patients with cystic fibrosis in obstetrician offices, endocrine 
clinics, or hospital settings, owing to lung transplantation or for treatment 
for distal intestinal obstruction syndrome.

© 2015 American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition.

DOI: 10.1177/0884533615591604
PMID: 26113561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Encephale. 2015 Dec;41(6):487-92. doi: 10.1016/j.encep.2015.04.001. Epub
2015  Jun 23.

[Problematic Internet use among teenagers in Sfax, Tunisia].

[Article in French]

Chérif L(1), Ayedi H(2), Hadjkacem I(2), Khemekhem K(2), Khemekhem S(2), Walha 
A(2), Kossentini I(2), Moalla Y(2), Ghribi F(2).

Author information:
(1)Service de pédopsychiatrie, CHU Hédi Chaker, avenue Majida Boulila, 3029 
Sfax, Tunisie. Electronic address: leilacherifepboukettaya@yahoo.fr.
(2)Service de pédopsychiatrie, CHU Hédi Chaker, avenue Majida Boulila, 3029 
Sfax, Tunisie.

Use of the Internet in Tunisian society and especially among teenagers has 
increased in recent years. While the use of Internet is primarily intended for 
research and communication, the Internet has also become an important part of 
teenager's life. Most people use the Internet in healthy and productive ways. 
However, some teenagers develop a problematic use of the Internet, which is a 
condition also known by the term of "Internet addiction". In Tunisia, the 
literature does not report data on problematic Internet use prevalence among 
Tunisian teenagers.
PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence of problematic 
Internet use among teenagers, in the urban area of Sfax.
METHODS: This transversal study was carried out between the 15th January and the 
15th February 2009. Participants were 600, first to third grade secondary school 
students, aged 14 to 20. They were recruited from seven secondary schools 
randomly selected in the urban area in Sfax City. The self-administered Young's 
8-item questionnaire was used in this survey. Participants who scored five or 
more can be considered problematic Internet users. Finally, 587 valid data 
samples were collected, 263 (44%) males and 324 (56%) females. Eighty-five 
percent of the participants were in the 15-17 age range. The mean age was 16 
years (±1.26).
RESULTS: The prevalence of problematic Internet use was 18.05% (total of 587 
students). The sex-ratio was 0.75. The problematic Internet use was not 
correlated with sex. The average time of Internet use per day among problematic 
Internet users was 4.5hours (±2.84) against 1.02hours (±1.56) among non 
problematic Internet users (P=0.000).
DISCUSSION: In this study, the prevalence of problematic Internet use was higher 
than that reported in previous studies. Two facts can explain this: first, the 
use of the only self-administered questionnaire does not distinguish between a 
simple abuse and a problematic Internet use. A psychiatric examination is 
essential to support the diagnosis of problematic Internet use. Second, this 
study was conducted exclusively in an urban area where access to the Internet is 
easier than in rural areas. This study was not representative of teenagers in 
Sfax. The gender difference was consistent with the findings of prior research, 
as was the average time of Internet use per day among problematic Internet 
users.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that problematic Internet use is frequent in our 
teenage population. A preventive outreach for youths, their families and health 
professionals is needed to limit the extension of this problem among young 
people. The existence of misuse of the Internet should not lead to avoiding this 
media. Reflections on how to moderate the relationship with the Internet are 
necessary; especially since Internet becomes an essential medium of information 
and communication. The current lack of Internet education in school curricula is 
also a shortage to fulfil.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.encep.2015.04.001
PMID: 26115786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. BMC Med. 2015 Jun 26;13:151. doi: 10.1186/s12916-015-0389-1.

Local anaesthetic wound infiltration in addition to standard anaesthetic regimen 
in total hip and knee replacement: long-term cost-effectiveness analyses 
alongside the APEX randomised controlled trials.

Marques EM(1), Blom AW(2), Lenguerrand E(3), Wylde V(4), Noble SM(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Canynge Hall, 
39 Whatley Road, Bristol, BS8 2PS, UK. e.marques@bristol.ac.uk.
(2)Musculoskeletal Research Unit, School of Clinical Sciences, University of 
Bristol, Learning and Research Building, Southmead Hospital, Bristol, BS10 5NB, 
UK. ashley.blom@bristol.ac.uk.
(3)Musculoskeletal Research Unit, School of Clinical Sciences, University of 
Bristol, Learning and Research Building, Southmead Hospital, Bristol, BS10 5NB, 
UK. erik.lenguerrand@bristol.ac.uk.
(4)Musculoskeletal Research Unit, School of Clinical Sciences, University of 
Bristol, Learning and Research Building, Southmead Hospital, Bristol, BS10 5NB, 
UK. v.wylde@bristol.ac.uk.
(5)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Canynge Hall, 
39 Whatley Road, Bristol, BS8 2PS, UK. s.m.noble@bristol.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: The Arthroplasty Pain Experience (APEX) studies are two randomised 
controlled trials in primary total hip (THR) and total knee replacement (TKR) at 
a large UK orthopaedics centre. APEX investigated the effect of local 
anaesthetic wound infiltration (LAI), administered before wound closure, in 
addition to standard analgesia, on pain severity at 12 months. This article 
reports results of the within-trial economic evaluations.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness was assessed from the health and social care payer 
perspective in relation to quality adjusted life years (QALYs) and the primary 
clinical outcome, the WOMAC Pain score at 12-months follow-up. Resource use was 
collected from hospital records and patient-completed postal questionnaires, and 
valued using unit cost estimates from local NHS Trust finance department and 
national tariffs. Missing data were addressed using multiple imputation chained 
equations. Costs and outcomes were compared per trial arm and plotted in 
cost-effectiveness planes. If no arm was dominant (i.e., more effective and less 
expensive than the other), incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were estimated. 
The economic results were bootstrapped incremental net monetary benefit 
statistics (INMB) and cost-effectiveness acceptability curves. One-way 
deterministic sensitivity analyses explored any methodological uncertainty.
RESULTS: In both the THR and TKR trials, LAI was the dominant treatment: 
cost-saving and more effective than standard care, in relation to QALYs and 
WOMAC Pain. Using the £20,000 per QALY threshold, in THR, the INMB was £1,125 
(95 % BCI, £183 to £2,067) and the probability of being cost-effective was over 
98 %. In TKR, the INMB was £264 (95 % BCI, -£710 to £1,238), but there was only 
62 % probability of being cost-effective. When considering an NHS perspective 
only, LAI was no longer dominant in THR, but still highly cost-effective, with 
an INMB of £961 (95 % BCI, £50 to £1,873).
CONCLUSIONS: Administering LAI is a cost-effective treatment option in THR and 
TKR surgeries. The evidence, because of larger QALY gain, is stronger for THR. 
In TKR, there is more uncertainty around the economic result, and smaller QALY 
gains. Results, however, point to LAI being cheaper than standard analgesia, 
which includes a femoral nerve block.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN96095682 , 29/04/2010.

DOI: 10.1186/s12916-015-0389-1
PMCID: PMC4496938
PMID: 26116078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2015 Sep;50(3):320-30. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2015.05.004. Epub 2015 Jun 23.

Systematic Review and Meta-analysis of Long-term survival After Elective 
Infrarenal Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Repair 1969-2011: 5 Year Survival Remains 
Poor Despite Advances in Medical Care and Treatment Strategies.

Bahia SS(1), Holt PJ(2), Jackson D(3), Patterson BO(2), Hinchliffe RJ(2), 
Thompson MM(2), Karthikesalingam A(2).

Author information:
(1)St George's Vascular Institute, London, UK. Electronic address: 
bahia_sandeep@yahoo.co.uk.
(2)St George's Vascular Institute, London, UK.
(3)MRC Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge, UK.

Comment in
    Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2016 Mar;51(3):463-4.
    Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2016 Mar;51(3):463.

BACKGROUND: Improved critical care, pre-operative optimization, and the advent 
of endovascular surgery (EVAR) have improved 30 day mortality for elective 
abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair. It remains unknown whether this has 
translated into improvements in long-term survival, particularly because these 
factors have also encouraged the treatment of older patients with greater 
comorbidity. The aim of this study was to quantify how 5 year survival after 
elective AAA repair has changed over time.
METHODS: A systematic review was performed identifying studies reporting 5 year 
survival after elective infrarenal AAA repair. An electronic search of the 
Embase and Medline databases was conducted to January 2014. Thirty-six studies, 
60 study arms, and 107,814 patients were identified. Meta-analyses were 
conducted to determine 5 year survival and to report whether 5 year survival 
changed over time.
RESULTS: Five-year survival was 69% (95% CI 67 to 71%, I(2) = 87%). 
Meta-regression on study midpoint showed no improvement in 5 year survival over 
the period 1969-2011 (log OR -0.001, 95% CI -0.014-0.012). Larger average 
aneurysm diameter was associated with poorer 5 year survival (adjusted log OR 
-0.058, 95% CI -0.095 to -0.021, I(2) = 85%). Older average patient age at 
