therapy as an illustrative example.

DOI: 10.1007/s11096-015-0148-6
PMCID: PMC4682203
PMID: 26078120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Cancer. 2015 Sep 15;121(18):3335-42. doi: 10.1002/cncr.29489. Epub 2015 Jun
16.

Quality of patient-reported outcome reporting across cancer randomized 
controlled trials according to the CONSORT patient-reported outcome extension: A 
pooled analysis of 557 trials.

Efficace F(1), Fayers P(2), Pusic A(3), Cemal Y(3), Yanagawa J(4), Jacobs M(5), 
la Sala A(6), Cafaro V(1), Whale K(7), Rees J(7), Blazeby J(7); European 
Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality-of-Life Group 
(Patient-Reported Outcome Measurements Over Time in Oncology Registry).

Author information:
(1)Data Center and Health Outcomes Research Unit, Italian Group for Adult 
Hematologic Diseases, Rome, Italy.
(2)Institute of Applied Health Sciences, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, 
United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New 
York.
(4)Department of Surgery, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California.
(5)Department of Medical Psychology, Academic Medical Center/University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular Immunology, Scientific Hospitalization 
and Care Institution San Raffaele Pisana, Rome, Italy.
(7)Bristol Centre for Surgical Research, School of Social and Community 
Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: The main objectives of this study were to identify the number of 
randomized controlled trials (RCTs) including a patient-reported outcome (PRO) 
endpoint across a wide range of cancer specialties and to evaluate the 
completeness of PRO reporting according to the Consolidated Standards of 
Reporting Trials (CONSORT) PRO extension.
METHODS: RCTs with a PRO endpoint that had been performed across several cancer 
specialties and published between 2004 and 2013 were considered. Studies were 
evaluated on the basis of previously defined criteria, including the CONSORT PRO 
extension and the Cochrane Collaboration's tool for assessing the risk of bias 
of RCTs. Analyses were also conducted by the type of PRO endpoint (primary vs 
secondary) and by the cancer disease site.
RESULTS: A total of 56,696 potentially eligible records were scrutinized, and 
557 RCTs with a PRO evaluation, enrolling 254,677 patients overall, were 
identified. PROs were most frequently used in RCTs of breast (n = 123), lung (n 
= 85), and colorectal cancer (n = 66). Overall, PROs were secondary endpoints in 
421 RCTs (76%). Four of 6 evaluated CONSORT PRO items were documented in less 
than 50% of the RCTs. The level of reporting was higher in RCTs with a PRO as a 
primary endpoint. The presence of a supplementary report was the only 
statistically significant factor associated with greater completeness of 
reporting for both RCTs with PROs as primary endpoints (β = .19, P = .001) and 
RCTs with PROs as secondary endpoints (β = .30, P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS: Implementation of the CONSORT PRO extension is equally important 
across all cancer specialties. Its use can also contribute to revealing the 
robust PRO design of some studies, which might be obscured by poor outcome 
reporting.

© 2015 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.29489
PMCID: PMC4755292
PMID: 26079197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. J Immunol Methods. 2015 Oct;425:58-61. doi: 10.1016/j.jim.2015.06.009. Epub
2015  Jun 14.

The effects of age and gender on plasma levels of 63 cytokines.

Larsson A(1), Carlsson L(2), Gordh T(3), Lind AL(3), Thulin M(4), 
Kamali-Moghaddam M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, SE-751 85 Uppsala, 
Sweden. Electronic address: anders.larsson@akademiska.se.
(2)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, SE-751 85 Uppsala, 
Sweden.
(3)Department of Surgical Sciences, Anesthesiology and Intensive Care and 
Uppsala Berzelii Technology Center for Neurodiagnostics, Uppsala University, 
SE-751 85 Uppsala, Sweden.
(4)Department of Statistics, Uppsala University, SE-751 85 Uppsala, Sweden.
(5)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Science for Life 
Laboratory, Uppsala University, 751 08 Uppsala, Sweden.

Cytokines play important roles as regulators of cell functions, and over the 
last decades a number of cytokine assays have been developed. The aim of the 
present study was to investigate the effects of age and gender on a large number 
of cytokines. Plasma samples were collected from 33 healthy blood donors. The 
samples were analyzed using a multiplex proximity extension assay (PEA) allowing 
simultaneous measurement of 92 cytokines and four technical controls. Biomarkers 
with less than 80% quantitative results were excluded leaving 63 cytokines that 
were analyzed for the effects of gender and age. The plasma level of three of 
the investigated biomarkers (DNER, MCP-4 and MMP-10) were found to be 
significantly different for the two genders (adjusted p-value<0.05), and 15 of 
the biomarkers (CCL11, CCL25, CDCP1, CSF-1, CXCL11, CXCL9, FGF-23, Flt3L, HGF, 
IL-10RB, MCP-3, MCP-4, MMP-10, OPG, VEGF-A) were significantly associated with 
age. This study reveals the effects of age and gender on a large number of 
cytokine assays. CXCL5 and TNFB were significantly higher in females, while the 
other markers with significant gender-dependent differences were higher in 
males. For the markers that were significantly associated with age, only CXCL6 
was found to decrease with age, while the other biomarkers increased with age.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jim.2015.06.009
PMID: 26080062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Commun Agric Appl Biol Sci. 2014;79(3):385-95.

EVIDENCE FOR REDUCED SEXUAL REPRODUCTION OF ZYMOSEPTORIA TRITICI FOLLOWING 
TREATMENT WITH FLUXAPYROXAD AND IMPLICATIONS FOR INITIAL INFECTION OF WHEAT 
CROPS.

Smith J, Waterhouse S, Paveley N.

Zymoseptoria tritici (previously Mycosphaerella graminicola) is the causal agent 
of septoria tritici leaf blotch (STB), a globally important fungal disease of 
bread, feed and durum wheat. Airborne ascospores originating from over-winter 
crop residues are considered to be the primary source of initial infection. The 
active ingredient fluxapyroxad (BASF) belongs to the chemical group of 
carboxamides and is a succinate dehydrogenase inhibitor (SDHI) fungicide. 
Fluxapyroxad has strong efficacy against the key foliar diseases of winter 
wheat: STB, yellow rust and brown rust. The objective of the study was to test 
the effects of foliar applications of fluxapyroxad on the life cycle components 
of Z. tritici. We report here the effects of foliar applications of fluxapyroxad 
on initial inoculum and subsequent effects on disease level in the following 
crop. A large-plot field experiment was carried out in Herefordshire, UK, during 
2010-2011. Fluxapyroxad was applied at conventional timings (Zadoks scale at 
z.32 and z.39, decimal growth stages GS32 and GS39) as a solo product and in 
co-formulation with epoxiconazole, and was evaluated by comparison with 
epoxiconazole and an untreated control for its effects on late season STB. 
Autumn ascospore release was measured in field plots using volumetric spore 
traps. A second wheat crop was established in the following year (2011-2012) 
using minimum tillage cultivation techniques, so that crop residues from the 
previous crop remained exposed. The second wheat crop was not treated with 
fungicide. The original plot boundaries from the preceding year were located and 
each plot was monitored for STB. A significant positive relationship was found 
between late season septoria leaf blotch severity and the mean number of 
ascospores released from over-winter crop residues. Foliar applications of 
fluxapyroxad reduced the number of ascospores released and this reduction 
correlated positively with pre-stem extension (z.31) STB severity in the 
following crop. A second field experiment was conducted in 2012 in which similar 
treatments were applied. After harvest crop residues (stems and leaves) were 
collected from the plots and stored over winter under ambient conditions. 
Ascospores were harvested onto agar plates following induced spore release in 
the laboratory. Reductions in ascospore release following foliar application of 
fluxapyroxad were confirmed. Furthermore, ascospores produced from crop residues 
from treated plots showed a reduction in length and rate of germination when 
compared with ascospores from untreated plots, which could indicate a potential 
fitness cost. This evidence indicates that applications of fluxapyroxad could 
reduce the risk of STB in following wheat crops in the same field. Applications 
to fields at a regional scale may reduce primary infections of newly emerging 
wheat crops over a wide area.

PMID: 26080473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Am J Transplant. 2015 Aug;15(8):2023-30. doi: 10.1111/ajt.13344. Epub 2015
Jun  16.

Challenges and Clinical Decision-Making in HIV-to-HIV Transplantation: Insights 
From the HIV Literature.

Boyarsky BJ(1), Durand CM(2), Palella FJ Jr(3), Segev DL(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD.
(2)Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD.
(3)Department of Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University 
Chicago, Chicago, IL.
(4)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, Baltimore, 
MD.

Life expectancy among HIV-infected (HIV+) individuals has improved dramatically 
with effective antiretroviral therapy. Consequently, chronic diseases such as 
end-stage liver and kidney disease are growing causes of morbidity and 
mortality. HIV+ individuals can have excellent outcomes after solid organ 
transplantation, and the need for transplantation in this population is 
increasing. However, there is a significant organ shortage, and HIV+ individuals 
experience higher mortality rates on transplant waitlists. In South Africa, the 
use of organs from HIV+ deceased donors (HIVDD) has been successful, but until 
recently federal law prohibited this practice in the United States. With the 
recognition that organs from HIVDD could fill a critical need, the HIV Organ 
Policy Equity (HOPE) Act was passed in November 2013, reversing the federal ban 
on the use of HIV+ donors for HIV+ recipients. In translating this policy into 
practice, the biologic risks of using HIV+ donors need to be carefully 
considered. In this mini-review, we explore relevant aspects of HIV virology, 
antiretroviral treatment, drug resistance, opportunistic infections and 
HIV-related organ dysfunction that are critical to a transplant team considering 
HIV-to-HIV transplantation.

© Copyright 2015 The American Society of Transplantation and the American 
Society of Transplant Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ajt.13344
PMID: 26080612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Biom J. 2015 Sep;57(5):885-96. doi: 10.1002/bimj.201400008. Epub 2015 Jun
16.

Mortality incidence estimation using federal death certificate and natality data 
with an application to Tay-Sachs disease.

Jalal K(1)(2), Carter RL(3)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University at Buffalo, 804 Kimball Tower, 
Buffalo, NY, 14214, USA.
(2)Population Health Observatory, School of Public Health and Health 
Professions, University at Buffalo, 808 Kimball Tower, Buffalo, NY, 14214, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, University at Buffalo, 725 Kimball Tower, 
Buffalo, NY, 14214, USA.

For confidentiality reasons, US federal death certificate data are incomplete 
with regards to the dates of birth and death for the decedents, making 
calculation of total lifetime of a decedent impossible and thus estimation of 
mortality incidence difficult. This paper proposes the use of natality data and 
an imputation-based method to estimate age-specific mortality incidence rates in 
the face of this missing information. By utilizing previously determined 
probabilities of birth, a birth date and death date are imputed for every 
decedent in the dataset. Thus, the birth cohort of each individual is imputed, 
and the total on-study time can be calculated. This idea is implemented in two 
approaches for estimation of mortality incidence rates. The first is an 
extension of a person-time approach, while the second is an extension of a life 
table approach. Monte Carlo simulations showed that both approaches perform well 
in comparison to the ideal complete data methods, but that the person-time 
method is preferred. An application to Tay-Sachs disease is demonstrated. It is 
concluded that the imputation methods proposed provide valid estimates of the 
incidence of death from death certificate data without the need for additional 
assumptions under which usual mortality rates provide valid estimates.

© 2015 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/bimj.201400008
PMID: 26080753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Health Econ. 2016 Aug;25(8):1005-19. doi: 10.1002/hec.3205. Epub 2015 Jun
16.

The Impact of Hospital Payment Schemes on Healthcare and Mortality: Evidence 
from Hospital Payment Reforms in OECD Countries.

Wubulihasimu P(1), Brouwer W(1), van Baal P(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Technology Assessment/Institute of Health Policy & 
Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

In this study, aggregate-level panel data from 20 Organization for Economic 
Cooperation and Development countries over three decades (1980-2009) were used 
to investigate the impact of hospital payment reforms on healthcare output and 
mortality. Hospital payment schemes were classified as fixed-budget (i.e. not 
directly based on activities), fee-for-service (FFS) or patient-based payment 
(PBP) schemes. The data were analysed using a difference-in-difference model 
that allows for a structural change in outcomes due to payment reform. The 
results suggest that FFS schemes increase the growth rate of healthcare output, 
whereas PBP schemes positively affect life expectancy at age 65 years. However, 
these results should be interpreted with caution, as results are sensitive to 
model specification. Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.3205
PMID: 26080792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Apr;49(4):289-91.

[Reduce the burden of disease, realize the health dream of Chinese].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhou M(1), Liang X.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China; Email: maigengzhou@126.com.

Along with the society and economy development in China, life expectancy of 
Chinese increased substantially since 1990, chronic and non-communicable disease 
has became a serious disease effecting on health. In the process of transition 
of the health mode, it's a complicated challenge how to effectively reduce the 
burden of and improve the health of Chinese. Based on the results of the burden 
of disease study of Chinese, referring to the experience of other countries and 
combining with the practice in our country, we put forward some suggestions to 
solve the health problems in China, and we hope we can promote the development 
of the prevention and control of disease, and realize the health dream of 
Chinese.

PMID: 26081527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Apr;49(4):303-8.

[Burden of disease attributable to main behavioral risk factor of chronic 
disease inactivity in China, 1990 and 2010].

[Article in Chinese]

Li Y(1), Liu S(1), Wang L(1), Zhou M(2).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China.
(2)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China; Email: maigengzhou@126.com.

OBJECTIVE: To examine burden of disease (BOD) attributable to dietary risk 
factors, tobacco smoking, alcohol use, and physical inactivity in China in 1990 
and 2010.
METHODS: The results of the Global Burden of Diseases Study 2010(GBD 2010) for 
China were extracted to examine BOD attributable to the four behavioral risk 
factors in terms of current status, time trend, age patterns, and their 
diseasecomposition. Measurements for attributable BOD were years of life lost 
due to premature mortality (YLL), years lived with disability (YLD), and 
disability-adjusted life years (DALY).
RESULTS: In 1990, for both genders combined, BOD attributable to dietary risk 
factors, tobacco smoking, and alcohol use were 37.28 (32.88-42.12), 28.32 
(22.50-35.73), and 13.02 (10.50-15.74) million DALYs, respectively; for men, 
attributable BOD were 21.17 (18.26-24.48), 17.87 (13.59-23.74), and 10.23 
(8.22-12.38) million DALYs, respectively, more than those in women (16.11 
(13.90-19.32), 10.45 (727-15.69), and 2.79 (1.81-392) million DALYs, 
respectively). In 2010, BOD attributable to dietary risk factors, tobacco 
smoking, alcohol use, and physical inactivity were 51.70 (46.07-56.65), 30.00 
(23.43-35.92), 13.78 (10.89-16.88), and 11.44(9.49-13.68) million DALYs, 
respectively, all of which combined accounted for 33.7% of overall BOD; in male 
BOD attributable to these 4 risk factors were 32.91 (28.43-36.54), 22.71 
(17.09-28.27), 11.62 (9.19-14.28), and 6.34 (5.09-7.74) million DALYs, 
respectively, higher than those in women (18.79 (16.31-20.92), 7.29 (4.47-9.73), 
2.16 (1.25-3.10), and 5.10 (4.21-6.05) million, respectively). Compared with 
1990, attributable BOD among men in 2010 had increased by 55.5% for dietary risk 
factors, 27.1% for tobacco smoking and 13.6% for alcohol use, whilst only had 
BOD attributable dietary risk factors increased (by 16.6%) among women, with 
decreasing trends in smoking (-30.2%) and alcohol use (-22.6%). Diet low in 
fruits accounted for the largest portion of 35.4% in total BOD attributable to 
all dietary risk factors, followed by diet high in sodium which accounted for 
20.2%.
CONCLUSION: The BOD attributable to the 4 behavioral risk factors was quite high 
in China, with significant increase in BOD of men.

PMID: 26081537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Apr;49(4):309-14.

[The disease burden of malignant tumor in China, 1990 and 2010].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu Y(1), Liu J, Yin P, Liu S, Cai Y, You J, Zeng X, Wang L, Zhou M(2).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China.
(2)Email: maigengzhou@126.com.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze and compare burden of disease caused by malignant tumor in 
China, 1990 and 2010.
METHODS: The indicators including prevalence, death, years of life lost (YLL), 
years lived with disability (YLD), and disability adjusted of life years (DALY) 
of malignant tumor from the results of Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2010 were 
used to calculate the standardized prevalence rate, mortality rate, YLL rate, 
YLD rate and DALY rate with the 2010 national census data. The research 
described the prevalence, death, and burden of disease caused by malignant tumor 
and analyze the trend of these indicators in 1990 and 2010 in China.
RESULTS: In China from 1990 to 2010, the standardized prevalence rate of 
malignant tumor increased from 529.76/100 000 to 749.57/100 000 (increased by 
41.49%); the standardized mortality rate decreased from 196.57/100 000 to 
169.88/100 000 (decreased by 13.58%); the standardized DALY rate decreased from 
5 206.56/100 000 to 4 150.86/100 000. In 2010, the top five standardized DALY 
rate of malignant tumor were lung cancer, liver cancer, gastric cancer, 
esophageal cancer, and colorectal cancer. Their standardized DALY rate were 
892.21/100 000, 787.40/100 000, 521.36/100 000, 303.95/100 000, and 269.94/100 
000, respectively. In all kind of malignant tumors, the burden of disease of 
lung cancer had the fastest-growing rate. The standardized mortality rate of 
lung cancer increased from 34.78/100 000 in 1990 to 41.09/100 000 in 2010; the 
standardized DALY rate increased from 830.77/100 000 in 1990 to 892.21/100 000 
in 2010. The burden of disease of gastric cancer had the fastest-falling rate. 
The standardized mortality rate of gastric cancer decreased from 39.65/100 000 
in 1990 to 23.79/100 000 in 2010; the standardized DALY rate decreased from 
968.96/100 000 in 1990 to 521.36/100 000 in 2010.
CONCLUSION: The burden of disease caused by malignant tumor in China remained at 
high levels in 2010. The top five burden of disease of malignant tumor were lung 
cancer, liver cancer, gastric cancer, esophageal cancer, and colorectal cancer. 
The burden of disease of lung cancer had the fastest-growing rate and gastric 
cancer had the fastest-falling rate from 1990 to 2010 in China. Prevention and 
control of malignant tumor was still difficult.

PMID: 26081538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Apr;49(4):315-20.

[The disease burden of cardiovascular and circulatory diseases in China, 1990 
and 2010].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu J(1), Liu Y(1), Wang L(2), Yin P(1), Liu S(1), You J(1), Zeng X(1), Zhou 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China.
(2)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China; Email: wangli_19@aliyun.com.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the death status of disease burden of cardiovascular and 
circulatory diseases in 1990 and 2010 in China, and to provide the basic 
information for cardiovascular and circulatory disease prevention and control.
METHODS: Using the results of the Global Burden of Diseases Study 2010 (GBD 
2010) to describe the cardiovascular and circulatory diseases deaths status and 
disease burden in China. The measurement index included the mortality, years of 
life lost due to premature mortality (YLL), years lived with disability (YLD), 
and disability-adjusted life years (DALY). At the same time, we used the 
population from 2010 national census as standard population to calculate the 
age-standardized mortality rate and DALY rate, YLL rate and YLD rates which will 
describe the mortality status and disease burden of total and different types of 
cardiovascular disease. We also calculated the change in 1990 and 2010 for all 
indexes, to describe the change of the burden of disease in the 20 years.
RESULTS: In 2010, the total deaths of cardiovascular and circulatory diseases 
reached 3.136 2 million, the mortality rate reached 233.70 per 100 000 people 
and the age-standardized mortality rate was 256.90 per 100 000 people. The total 
DALYs, YLLs, and YLDs of cardiovascular and circulatory diseases reached 
58.2055, 54.0488, and 4.1568 million person-years, respectively, and the 
age-standardized DALY rate, YLL rate and YLD rate were 4 639.04, 4 313.13, 
325.91 per 100 000. In 1990, the deaths only 2.1675 million and the DALYs, YLLs 
and YLDs were 45.2679, 42.2922, and 2.9757 million person-years. The 
age-standardized mortality rate was 300.30 per 100 000 people. And the 
age-standardized DALY rate, YLL rate and YLD rate were 5 872.58, 5 523.42 and 
349.16 per 100 000. Compared with the result in 1990, the total deaths, DALYs, 
YLLs, and YLDs were increased 44.72%, 28.58%, 27.80%, and 39.68%, respectively, 
while the age-standardized mortality rate, age-standardized DALY rate, 
age-standardized YLL rate, and age-standardized YLD rate were decreased 14.45%, 
21.01%, 21.91%, and 6.66%, respectively. In 1990 and 2010, cerebrovascular 
disease caused the most DALYs (24.8768 and 30.1389 million person-years, 
respectively) compared with other types of cardiovascular and circulatory 
diseases, and followed by ischemic heart disease (10.1270 and 17.8858 million 
person-years). And the YLLs of cerebrovascular disease (24.3436 and 29.1726 
million person-years) also the highest in different type of cardiovascular and 
circulatory diseases, ischemic heart disease (8.9919 and 16.0839 million 
person-years) was the second highest. The deaths of cerebrovascular disease and 
cerebrovascular disease increased from 1 340.6 and 450.3 thousands in 1990 to 1 
726.7 and 948.7 thousands in 2010, respectively. The age-standardized mortality 
rate and DALY rate of cerebrovascular disease were decreased from 187.19 and 3 
335.37 per 100 000 people in 1990 to 141.43 and 2 409.09 per 100 000 people. 
While in the ischemic heart disease, the age-standardized mortality rate, and 
DALY rate were increased form 62.53 and 1 318.38 per 100 000 people in 1990 to 
77.89 and 1 428.31 per 100 000 people.
CONCLUSION: Burden of cardiovascular and circulatory disease became more and 
more serious in China, of which the cerebrovascular disease and ischemic heart 
disease were most serious.

PMID: 26081539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Apr;49(4):321-6.

[Status injury burden in 1990 and 2010 for Chinese people].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang L(1), Liu Y(1), Liu S(1), Yin P(1), Liu J(1), Zeng X(1), Zhou M(1), Wang 
L(2).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China.
(2)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China; Email: linhong@chinawch.org.cn.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the status and trend of injury burden in 1990 and 2010 for 
Chinese people.
METHODS: We used results of the Global Burden of Diseases Study 2010 (GBD 2010) 
to analyze the status of injury burden in China. The main outcome measurements 
included years of life lost (YLL), years lived with disability (YLD), and 
disability-adjusted life years (DALY). Moreover, the China Census in 2010 was 
used as the reference population to calculate the age-standardized rate with 
each five-year as an age group. We also calculate the percentage change from 
1990 to 2010 and analyze the trend of injury burden in China for the past twenty 
years.
RESULTS: In 2010, a total of 796 240 people died of injury. The crude death rate 
of injury in China was 59.34/100 000 and the standardized death rate was 
61.87/100 000; the YLL due to injury was 31.7593 million person years. The YLD 
due to injury was 9.0447 million person years and the DALY due to injury was 
40.8040 million person years. In 2010, the top five causes of death related to 
injury were road traffic, injury, suicide, falls, drowning and poisoning. The 
death number for the five causes were 282 576, 172 964, 115 294, 67 402, and 36 
997, respectively. The top five causes of DALY related to injury were road 
traffic injury, falls, suicide, drowning and poisoning and the DALY were 14.9623 
million, 7.0583 million, 5.9699 million, 3.6634 million, and 1.6137 million 
person years. From 1990 to 2010, the burden attributable to road traffic injury 
increased quickly, the standardized death rate increased from 15.76/100 000 to 
21.83/100 000, up 38.54%; the standardized DALY rate increased from 930.12/100 
000 to 1142.19/100 000, up 22.80%. From 1990 to 2010, the burden attributable to 
suicide decreased, the standardized death rate decreased from 22.62/100 000 to 
13.62/100 000, down 39.82%, and the standardized DALY rate decreased from 
875.09/100 000 to 462.28/100 000, down 47.17%. The disease burden of injury 
topped at the group aged 20-24, followed by group aged 40-44 and group aged 
35-39, the DALY for the three age groups were 4.2211 million,4.1655 million, and 
4.0319 million person years, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Injury was the main disease for burden among Chinese population, 
especially among young adults. In recent years, the burden attributable to road 
traffic injury increased quickly. Targeted prevention and control measures for 
road traffic injury, falling, suicide and other key injury should be in place to 
reduce the burden of injury effectively.

PMID: 26081540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Apr;49(4):327-33.

[Burden of disease attributable to ambient particulate matter pollution in 1990 
and 2010 in China].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu S(1), Zhou M(1), Wang L(1), Li Y(1), Liu Y(1), Liu J(1), You J(1), Yin P(2).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic and Non-communicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China.
(2)National Center for Chronic and Non-communicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China; Email: yinpengcdc@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the burden of disease attributable to ambient particulate 
matter pollution in 1990 and 2010 in China.
METHODS: On the basis of the results of the Global Burden of Diseases Study 2010 
(GBD 2010) for China's estimates, we used population attributable fractions 
(PAF) to examine the burden of disease (mortality and disability-adjusted life 
years (DALY)) attributable to ambient particulate matter pollution in 1990 and 
2010 in China, with 95% uncertainty interval (95% UI) estimate, and increasing 
rate to explore the trends of attributed burden of disease across the study 
period of 20 years.
RESULTS: In 2010, 38.9% (95% UI: 27.0%-49.4%) of lower respiratory infections 
for < 5 years children, 27.2% (95% UI: 10.2%-37.5%) of lung cancer, 29.9% (95% 
UI: 25.8%-34.2%) of ischemic heart disease, 35.0% (95% UI: 27.4%-41.1%) of 
stroke, and 21.0% (95% UI: 10.7%-30.3%) of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD) for ≥ 25 years adults were attributable to ambient particulate matter 
pollution, which accounted for 1.235 (95% UI: 1.038-1.410) million deaths and 
25.230 (95% UI: 21.770-28.600) million person years DALY in total, and increased 
by 33.4% and 4.0%, respectively by comparison with that in 1990 (0.926 million 
and 24.260 million person years). Lung cancer accounted for the largest 
increasing rate of 154.5% (from 0.055 million to 0.140 million) and 130.1% (from 
1.330 million person years to 3.060 million person years), followed by ischemic 
heart disease (118.5%, from 0.130 million to 0.284 million, and 86.6%, from 
3.280 million person years to 6.120 million person years) and stroke (41.0%, 
from 0.429 million to 0.605 million, and 33.8%, from 8.970 million person years 
to 12.000 million person years). The attributed mortality for both gender mostly 
occurred in age group of 60-79 years (male: 0.260 million and 0.404 million 
accounting for 53.7% and 54.8%; female: 0.214 million and 0.236 million 
accounting for 48.5% and 47.5%) both in 1990 and 2010. The age group of 40-79 
years accounted for the most portion of attributed DALY for both gender (male: 
8.458 million person years and 13.460 million person years accounting for 62.9% 
and 83.8%; female: 6.360 million person years and 7.152 million person years 
accounting for 58.9% and 78.0%). The increasing rates were higher for male than 
for female.
CONCLUSION: The burden of disease attributable to ambient particulate matter 
pollution was very high in China with significant increase in mortality and 
disability, which indicates the highly necessity for government to take actions 
to reduce ambient particulate matter pollution and its health hazards.

PMID: 26081541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Apr;49(4):334-8.

[The disease burden of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease among people aged 
over 15 years in 1990 and 2010 in China].

[Article in Chinese]

Yin P(1), Wang L(1), Liu S(2), Liu Y(1), Liu J(1), You J(1), Zeng X(1), Zhou 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China.
(2)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China; Email: liusw@chinacdc.cn.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the disease burden of chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD) among people aged over 15 years in 1990 and 2010 in China.
METHODS: The estimation of China data for the Global Burden of Disease Study 
2010 (GBD 2010) was used to analyze the mortality and prevalence as well as the 
years of life lost due to premature mortality (YLL), years lived with disability 
(YLD) and disability-adjusted life years (DALY) of COPD in China in 1990 and 
2010 for Chinese people aged 15 years and above. The death rate and DALY rate of 
COPD in China in 1990 and 2010 were compared.
RESULTS: In 2010, 0.934 million people (0.534 million men and 0.400 million 
women) aged over 15 years died from COPD, decreased 34.5% (24.3% for men and 
44.4% for women) compared with that in 1990 (1.425 million with 0.705 million 
men and 0.720 million women). There were 41.764 million COPD patients in 2010 
(22.111 million men and 19.653 million women), increased 42.1% (41.7% for men 
and 42.6% for women) compared with 1990 (29.382 million patients with 15.599 
million men and 13.783 million women). The mortality rate of COPD decreased for 
61.5% from 2.352/100 000 in 1990 to 90.5/100 000 in 2010. The prevalence rate of 
COPD was 4.2% and 3.9% in 1990 and 2010, respectively. The DALY, YLL and YLD due 
to COPD was 16.598, 12.946, and 3.652 million person years, respectively in 
2010. The YLD increased 42.3% compared with 1990 (2.567 million person years). 
From 1990 to 2010, the age-standardized DALY rate, YLL rate and YLD rate 
decreased from 4 120.1/100 000 to 1 575.9/100 000, from 3 756.9/100 000 to 1 
235.6/100 000 and from 363.2/100 000 to 340.3/100 000, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Although there was significant decrease of DALY due to COPD in 2010, 
compared to 1990, the YLD burden is still increasing.

PMID: 26081542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Apr;49(4):365-9.

[Burden of cancer in China: data on disability-adjusted life years].

[Article in Chinese]

Shi J(1), Zhang Y, Qu C, Zhang K, Guo L, Dai M(2), He J.

Author information:
(1)National Office for Cancer Prevention and Control, Cancer Institute & 
Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing 100021, China.
(2)Email: daimin2002@hotmail.com.

Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) has been increasingly used to estimate 
burden of disease worldwide. By giving a particular attention to DALYs, the 
objectives of the study were to review various data sources and to conduct an 
extended estimation on the burden of cancer in China. Based on the publications 
released by the GLOBOCAN 2008 program and the Global Burden of Disease 2010 (GBD 
2010) program, we reviewed the methodological information and gathered DALY data 
associated with burden of cancer in China, and then we extracted and summarized 
the data and conducted an extended analysis. From a methodological perspective, 
both of the programs applied the utility weights mainly from populations other 
than China. The data from GLOBOCAN 2008 suggests that liver cancer has replaced 
lung cancer and became the leading cancer in males in China when using DALY 
rather than mortality rate as the indicator (6.3 million and 5.4 million DALYs, 
respectively); although the ranking is different, data from the GBD 2010 project 
shows DALYs caused by liver cancer is comparable to that associated with lung 
cancer (7.9 million and 8.0 million, respectively). The years lived with 
disability (YLDs) comprised 26% and 12% of the total DALYs associated with 
breast cancer and colorectal cancer in China. Both projects suggest that liver 
cancer might have become or is becoming the leading contributor to males' DALYs 
in China. There are indications that, along with economic development, YLD will 
play a more important role in estimation of burden of cancer in China; it 
suggests that China should consider introducing DALY into the estimation system 
as early as possible. It also suggests that research on quality of life and 
utility associated with the major cancers in China need to be systematically 
conducted to facilitate more accurate DALY estimation.

PMID: 26081549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Support Care Cancer. 2016 Jan;24(1):387-394. doi: 10.1007/s00520-015-2805-7.
 Epub 2015 Jun 17.

Is febrile neutropenia prophylaxis with granulocyte-colony stimulating factors 
economically justified for adjuvant TC chemotherapy in breast cancer?

Skedgel C(1), Rayson D(2)(3), Younis T(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, Bob Champion Building, 
Norwich, NR4 7UQ, UK. c.skedgel@uea.ac.uk.
(2)Atlantic Clinical Cancer Research Unit, Capital Health, Halifax, NS, Canada.
(3)Department of Medicine, Capital Health, Halifax, NS, Canada.

PURPOSE: Febrile neutropenia (FN) during adjuvant chemotherapy is associated 
with morbidity, mortality risk, and substantial cost, and subsequent 
chemotherapy dose reductions may result in poorer outcomes. Patients at high 
risk of, or who develop FN, often receive prophylaxis with granulocyte 
colony-stimulating factors (G-CSF). We investigated whether different 
prophylaxis strategies with G-CSF offered favorable value-for-money.
METHODS: We developed a decision model to estimate the short- and long-term 
costs and outcomes of a hypothetical cohort of women with breast cancer 
receiving adjuvant taxotere + cyclophosphamide (TC) chemotherapy. The short-term 
phase estimated upfront costs and FN risks with adjuvant TC chemotherapy without 
G-CSF prophylaxis (i.e., chemotherapy dose reductions) as well as with secondary 
and primary G-CSF prophylaxis strategies. The long-term phase estimated the 
expected costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) for patients who 
completed adjuvant TC chemotherapy with or without one or more episodes of FN.
RESULTS: Secondary G-CSF was associated with lower costs and greater QALY gains 
than a no G-CSF strategy. Primary G-CSF appears likely to be cost-effective 
relative to secondary G-CSF at FN rates greater than 28%, assuming some loss of 
chemotherapy efficacy at lower dose intensities. The cost-effectiveness of 
primary vs. secondary G-CSF was sensitive to FN risk and mortality, and loss of 
chemotherapy efficacy following FN.
CONCLUSIONS: Secondary G-CSF is more effective and less costly than a no G-CSF 
strategy. Primary G-CSF may be justified at higher willingness-to-pay thresholds 
and/or higher FN risks, but this threshold FN risk appears to be higher than the 
20% rate recommended by current clinical guidelines.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-015-2805-7
PMID: 26081595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Eur J Public Health. 2015 Dec;25(6):1071-8. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckv091. Epub
 2015 Jun 16.

The burden of Lyme borreliosis expressed in disability-adjusted life years.

van den Wijngaard CC(1), Hofhuis A(2), Harms MG(2), Haagsma JA(3), Wong A(4), de 
Wit GA(5), Havelaar AH(6), Lugnér AK(2), Suijkerbuijk AW(7), van Pelt W(2).

Author information:
(1)1 National Institute of Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), Centre for 
Infectious Disease Control, Bilthoven, The Netherlands 
kees.van.den.wijngaard@rivm.nl.
(2)1 National Institute of Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), Centre for 
Infectious Disease Control, Bilthoven, The Netherlands.
(3)2 Erasmus MC, Department of Public Health, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)3 National Institute of Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), Bilthoven, 
The Netherlands.
(5)4 National Institute of Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), Centre for 
Nutrition, Prevention and Health Care, Bilthoven, The Netherlands 5 Julius 
Centre for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Hospital 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(6)1 National Institute of Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), Centre for 
Infectious Disease Control, Bilthoven, The Netherlands 6 Institute for Risk 
Assessment Sciences, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Utrecht University, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(7)4 National Institute of Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), Centre for 
Nutrition, Prevention and Health Care, Bilthoven, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Lyme borreliosis (LB) is the most commonly reported tick-borne 
infection in Europe and North America. In the last 15 years a 3-fold increase 
was observed in general practitioner consultations for LB in the Netherlands. To 
support prioritization of prevention and control efforts for LB, we estimated 
its burden expressed in Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs).
METHODS: We used available incidence estimates for three LB outcomes: (i) 
erythema migrans (EM), (ii) disseminated LB and (iii) Lyme-related persisting 
symptoms. To generate DALYs, disability weights and duration per outcome were 
derived using a patient questionnaire including health-related quality of life 
as measured by the EQ-5D.
RESULTS: We estimated the total LB burden for the Netherlands in 2010 at 10.55 
DALYs per 100,000 population (95% CI: 8.80-12.43); i.e. 0.60 DALYs for EM, 0.86 
DALYs for disseminated LB and 9.09 DALYs for Lyme-related persisting symptoms. 
Per patient this was 0.005 DALYs for EM, 0.113 for disseminated LB and 1.661 
DALYs for a patient with Lyme-related persisting symptoms. In a sensitivity 
analysis the total LB burden ranged from 7.58 to 16.93 DALYs per 100,000 
population.
CONCLUSIONS: LB causes a substantial disease burden in the Netherlands. The vast 
majority of this burden is caused by patients with Lyme-related persisting 
symptoms. EM and disseminated Lyme have a more modest impact. Further research 
should focus on the mechanisms that trigger development of these persisting 
symptoms that patients and their physicians attribute to LB.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Public Health Association. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckv091
PMID: 26082446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2015;50(12):1500-7. doi:
10.3109/00365521.2015.1055793.  Epub 2015 Jun 17.

Best practice in placement of percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy with jejunal 
extension tube for continuous infusion of levodopa carbidopa intestinal gel in 
the treatment of selected patients with Parkinson's disease in the Nordic 
region.

Dam-Larsen S(1), Darkahi B, Glad A, Gleditsch D, Gustavsson L, Halttunen J, 
Johansson KE, Pischel A, Reiertsen O, Törnqvist B, Zebski H.

Author information:
(1)Medical Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Medical Department, Koege Hospital , 
Koege , Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: Continuous infusion of levodopa carbidopa intestinal gel (LCIG) is 
associated with a significant improvement in the symptoms and quality of life of 
selected patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. Percutaneous endoscopic 
gastrostomy with jejunal extension (PEG/J) was first described in 1998 and has 
become the most common and standard technique for fixing the tubing in place for 
LCIG infusion.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A workshop was held in Stockholm, Sweden, to discuss the 
PEG/J placement for the delivery of LCIG in Parkinson's disease patients with 
the primary goal of providing guidance on best practice for the Nordic 
countries.
RESULTS: Suggested procedures for preparation of patients for PEG/J placement, 
aftercare, troubleshooting and redo-procedures for use in the Nordic region are 
described and discussed.
CONCLUSIONS: LCIG treatment administered through PEG/J-tubes gives a significant 
increase in quality of life for selected patients with advanced Parkinson's 
disease. Although minor complications are common, serious complications are 
infrequent, and the tube insertion procedures have a good safety record. Further 
development of delivery systems and evaluation of approaches designed to reduce 
the demand for redo endoscopy are required.

DOI: 10.3109/00365521.2015.1055793
PMID: 26083798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2015;159:A8501.

[Contrast-induced nephropathy and mortality after contrast-based investigation].

[Article in Dutch]

Gundlach PJ(1), van Beek-Peeters JA, Ruissen J, Verberk-Jonkers IJ.

Author information:
(1)Maasstad Ziekenhuis, afd. Interne Geneeskunde en Dialyse, Rotterdam.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the Dutch CBO guideline 'Preventive measures for 
iodine-based contrast investigations' in daily practice, and to assess one-year 
mortality post contrast exposure in patients at high risk of contrast-induced 
nephropathy (CIN).
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
METHOD: Between July 2011 and May 2013, 497 patients at high risk of CIN were 
prepared for elective iodine-based contrast investigations according to the 
Dutch CBO guideline. This group was followed up until May 2014 or, if 
applicable, until death. CIN incidence and reversibility, and mortality, were 
assessed.
RESULTS: CIN occurred in 20 patients (4%). The incidence was highest in the 
group of patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) < 30 
ml/min per 1.73 m2 (9/84 patients). CIN was reversible within two months in 19 
patients. None of the patients with CIN died during that period. One-year 
mortality post contrast exposure was 22.5% (median survival: 203 days).
CONCLUSION: This cohort study shows a low incidence of CIN, which is largely 
reversible. Almost a quarter of the cohort died within a year post contrast 
exposure, not as the result of CIN but probably due to comorbidities. Adherence 
to the current CBO guideline exposes patients with a reduced life expectancy to 
excessive preventive measures, while the occurrence of CIN is rare. These data 
warrant reconsideration of the current CBO guideline.

PMID: 26083840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Zhongguo Zhong Yao Za Zhi. 2015 Feb;40(3):410-3.

[Uses of fresh herbs with antioxidant effect and prospect for population ecology 
reconstruction in Macau].

[Article in Chinese]

Cheng CS, Zhou LY, Xu SQ, Lang JS, Zhang ZF.

The average life expectancy in Macau is ranking the second in the world, the 
consumption of fresh medicinal plants is a profound culture in Macau. The paper 
focus on the distribution of the antioxidant herbs, a comprehensive 
investigation and analysis the amount of the plant resources was carried out. 
The antioxidant activity of alcohol extracts was determined by using the DPPH 
method, and six kinds fresh herbs with high antioxidant free radical activity 
were screened out. Reference to adult daily dose of vitamin C, it is calculated 
that the daily dose amount of fresh herbs is less than 200 g. For the expected 
shortage of resources and the ecological status of Macau, we give some 
suggestions of herbal introduction in population ecology reconstruction.

PMID: 26084161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Arthritis Res Ther. 2015 Jun 18;17(1):161. doi: 10.1186/s13075-015-0679-1.

Resistance exercise improves muscle strength, health status and pain intensity 
in fibromyalgia--a randomized controlled trial.

Larsson A(1)(2), Palstam A(3)(4), Löfgren M(5), Ernberg M(6), Bjersing J(7), 
Bileviciute-Ljungar I(8), Gerdle B(9)(10), Kosek E(11), Mannerkorpi 
K(12)(13)(14).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medicine, Department of Rheumatology and Inflammation research, 
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Guldhedsgatan Box 480, 405 30, 
Göteborg, Sweden. anette.e.larsson@vgregion.se.
(2)University of Gothenburg Centre for Person Centered Care (GPCC), Göteborg, 
Sweden. anette.e.larsson@vgregion.se.
(3)Institute of Medicine, Department of Rheumatology and Inflammation research, 
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Guldhedsgatan Box 480, 405 30, 
Göteborg, Sweden. annie.palstam@gu.se.
(4)University of Gothenburg Centre for Person Centered Care (GPCC), Göteborg, 
Sweden. annie.palstam@gu.se.
(5)Department of Clinical Sciences, Danderyd Hospital, Karolinska Institute, 
Stockholm, Sweden. monika.lofgren@ki.se.
(6)Department of Dental Medicine, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden. 
malin.ernberg@ki.se.
(7)Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Rheumatology, Göteborg, Sweden. 
jan.bjersing@rheuma.gu.se.
(8)Department of Clinical Sciences, Danderyd Hospital, Karolinska Institute, 
Stockholm, Sweden. indre.bileviciute-ljungar@ds.se.
(9)Department of Pain and Rehabilitation Center, Linköping University, 
Linköping, Sweden. bjorn.gerdle@inr.liu.se.
(10)Department of Medical and Health Sciences, Linköping University, Linköping, 
Sweden. bjorn.gerdle@inr.liu.se.
(11)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, 
Sweden. eva.kosek@ki.se.
(12)Institute of Medicine, Department of Rheumatology and Inflammation research, 
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Guldhedsgatan Box 480, 405 30, 
Göteborg, Sweden. kaisa.mannerkorpi@gu.se.
(13)University of Gothenburg Centre for Person Centered Care (GPCC), Göteborg, 
Sweden. kaisa.mannerkorpi@gu.se.
(14)Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, Section of Health and 
Rehabilitation, Physiotherapy, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, 
Göteborg, Sweden. kaisa.mannerkorpi@gu.se.

Comment in
    Arthritis Res Ther. 2015;17:258.

INTRODUCTION: Fibromyalgia (FM) is characterized by persistent widespread pain, 
increased pain sensitivity and tenderness. Muscle strength in women with FM is 
reduced compared to healthy women. The aim of this study was to examine the 
effects of a progressive resistance exercise program on muscle strength, health 
status, and current pain intensity in women with FM.
METHODS: A total of 130 women with FM (age 22-64 years, symptom duration 0-35 
years) were included in this assessor-blinded randomized controlled multi-center 
trial examining the effects of progressive resistance group exercise compared 
with an active control group. A person-centred model of exercise was used to 
support the participants' self-confidence for management of exercise because of 
known risks of activity-induced pain in FM. The intervention was performed twice 
a week for 15 weeks and was supervised by experienced physiotherapists. Primary 
outcome measure was isometric knee-extension force (Steve Strong®), secondary 
outcome measures were health status (FIQ total score), current pain intensity 
(VAS), 6MWT, isometric elbow-flexion force, hand-grip force, health related 
quality of life, pain disability, pain acceptance, fear avoidance beliefs, and 
patient global impression of change (PGIC). Outcomes were assessed at baseline 
and immediately after the intervention. Long-term follow up comprised the 
self-reported questionnaires only and was conducted after 13-18 months. 
Between-group and within-group differences were calculated using non-parametric 
statistics.
RESULTS: Significant improvements were found for isometric knee-extension force 
(p = 0.010), health status (p = 0.038), current pain intensity (p = 0.033), 6MWT 
(p = 0.003), isometric elbow flexion force (p = 0.02), pain disability (p = 
0.005), and pain acceptance (p = 0.043) in the resistance exercise group (n = 
56) when compared to the control group (n = 49). PGIC differed significantly (p 
= 0.001) in favor of the resistance exercise group at post-treatment 
examinations. No significant differences between the resistance exercise group 
and the active control group were found regarding change in self-reported 
questionnaires from baseline to 13-18 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Person-centered progressive resistance exercise was found to be a 
feasible mode of exercise for women with FM, improving muscle strength, health 
status, and current pain intensity when assessed immediately after the 
intervention.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identification number: NCT01226784, Oct 
21, 2010.

DOI: 10.1186/s13075-015-0679-1
PMCID: PMC4489359
PMID: 26084281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Bratisl Lek Listy. 2015;116(6):346-8. doi: 10.4149/bll_2015_065.

Recent data on Mediterranean diet, cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes and 
life expectancy.

Ginter E, Simko V.

Benefits of dietary moderation when on a Mediterranean diet type (MD) have been 
known for well over half a century. In the past, there has been a vigorous 
renewal of interest in preventive potential of MD. This review is unique, by 
focusing on the very recent confirmatory data on the MD, all published within 
the first half of 2014. Benefits of MD in preventing and reducing cardiovascular 
disorders (CVD), known before, have been strongly confirmed. While there is 
little doubt regarding potential benefit of MD for obesity, diabetes type II, 
metabolic syndrome and fatty liver, critical evaluation has to be aimed at 
reported benefits of MD in such widely metabolic diverse disorders as cancer, 
pulmonary disease and cognition defects, including Alzheimer disease (Ref. 20). 
Text in PDF www.elis.sk.

DOI: 10.4149/bll_2015_065
PMID: 26084734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Health Econ. 2016 Oct;25(10):1239-51. doi: 10.1002/hec.3209. Epub 2015 Jun
16.

Population Aging and Healthcare Expenditure in Korea.

Hyun KR(1), Kang S(2), Lee S(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Insurance Policy Research Institute, National Health Insurance 
Service, Seoul, South Korea.
(2)School of Public Health, Daegu Haany University, Daegu, South Korea.

Korea's rapid population aging has been considered as a major factor in increase 
of healthcare expenditure (HCE). However, there were no clear empirical 
evidences in Korea that show if population aging has a significant impact on 
HCE. To examine the 'red herring' argument, this study used Heckman, two-part, 
and augmented model with Korean National Health Insurance claim data for the 
deceased and survivors of aged 20 years and over verified by Korean National 
Health Insurance Service between January 1 and December 31, 2010. Our results 
suggest that when time to death is controlled for as explanatory variable, HCE 
decreases as a function of age, and HCE during the terminal year increases as a 
function of time to death, and HCE in the last quarter of life decreases with 
age. Therefore, this study affirms that there is no age effect in Korea 
experiencing the most rapid population aging among Asian countries. An increase 
