101. Arch Dis Child. 2015 Dec;100(12):1173-7. doi:
10.1136/archdischild-2014-307962.  Epub 2015 Jul 7.

Recent advances in the management of Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Strehle EM(1), Straub V(1).

Author information:
(1)The John Walton Muscular Dystrophy Research Centre, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is the commonest inherited neuromuscular 
disorder of childhood and mainly affects males. Over the course of the last 
century, the average life expectancy of these patients has doubled and now 
stands at ∼25 years. This progress has been made possible through advances in 
the diagnosis, treatment and long-term care of patients with DMD. Basic and 
clinical research, national and international scientific networks, and parent 
and patient support groups have all contributed to achieving this goal. The 
advent of molecular genetic therapies and personalised medicine has opened up 
new avenues and raised hopes that one day a cure for this debilitating orphan 
disease will be found. The main purpose of this short review is to enable 
paediatricians to have informed discussions with parents of boys with DMD about 
recent scientific advances affecting their child's clinical care.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/archdischild-2014-307962
PMID: 26153505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. J Neurosci Nurs. 2015 Aug;47(4):247-54. doi: 10.1097/JNN.0000000000000147.

Feasibility of a Home-Based Speed of Processing Training Program in Middle-Aged 
and Older Adults With HIV.

Cody SL(1), Fazeli PL, Vance DE.

Author information:
(1)Shameka L. Cody, MSN ANP GNP-C PhD, is a Research Assistant,School of 
Nursing, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Pariya L. Fazeli, 
PhD, is a Postdoctoral Fellow, Department of Psychology, University of Alabama 
at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. Questions or comments about this article may be 
directed to David E. Vance, PhD MGS, at devance@uab.edu. He is an Associate 
Professor, School of Nursing, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, 
AL.

There has been much optimism over the positive impact of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (cART) on life expectancy for people with HIV; however, 
those aging with HIV fear potential day-to-day challenges associated with the 
development of cognitive deficits. The presence of cognitive deficits has 
generated major safety concerns because it has been shown to impact driving, 
mobility, and employment. Given the efficacy of a computerized speed of 
processing training program administered in the laboratory to older adults and 
adults with HIV, this study was designed to determine the feasibility of using a 
home-based speed of processing training program to improve cognitive function in 
middle-aged and older adults with HIV. In this within-subject pre-post 
experimental design, 20 middle-aged and older adults (i.e., age of 40+ years) 
with HIV were administered a brief neuropsychological assessment to gauge their 
baseline cognitive function before participating in a 10-hour home-based 
computerized cognitive remediation training program. In addition to 
self-reported cognitive gains, a 6-week posttest indicated significant 
improvements on the Useful Field of View, a measure of speed of processing and 
possible transfer to the Timed Instrumental Activities of Daily Living test, a 
measure of everyday functioning. These findings show that speed of processing 
training can successfully improve cognitive function in this vulnerable 
population even when administered in remote settings such as the privacy of 
one's home.

DOI: 10.1097/JNN.0000000000000147
PMCID: PMC4545608
PMID: 26153789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Stem Cells Dev. 2015 Oct 15;24(20):2378-90. doi: 10.1089/scd.2014.0487. Epub
 2015 Aug 19.

GDF-15 secreted from human umbilical cord blood mesenchymal stem cells delivered 
through the cerebrospinal fluid promotes hippocampal neurogenesis and synaptic 
activity in an Alzheimer's disease model.

Kim DH(1)(2), Lee D(1), Chang EH(3)(4), Kim JH(1)(4), Hwang JW(4)(5), Kim JY(1), 
Kyung JW(6), Kim SH(6), Oh JS(2), Shim SM(7), Na DL(4), Oh W(1), Chang JW(5)(8).

Author information:
(1)1 Biomedical Research Institute , MEDIPOST Co., Ltd., Gyeonggi-Do, Republic 
of Korea.
(2)2 Department of Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Sungkyunkwan University , 
Suwon, Republic of Korea.
(3)3 Samsung Biomedical Research Institute, Samsung Advanced Institute of 
Technology , Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(4)4 Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, School of Medicine, 
Sungkyunkwan University , Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)5 Department of Health Sciences and Technology, Samsung Advanced Institute 
for Health Sciences and Technology (SAIHST), Sungkyunkwan University , Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(6)6 Department of Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration Control Research Center, 
School of Medicine, Kyung Hee University , Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(7)7 Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of Medicine, Seoul National 
University , Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(8)8 Stem Cell & Regenerative Medicine Center (SCRMC), Research Institute for 
Future Medicine , Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

Our previous studies demonstrated that transplantation of human umbilical cord 
blood-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hUCB-MSCs) into the hippocampus of a 
transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD) reduced amyloid-β (Aβ) 
plaques and enhanced cognitive function through paracrine action. Due to the 
limited life span of hUCB-MSCs after their transplantation, the extension of 
hUCB-MSC efficacy was essential for AD treatment. In this study, we show that 
repeated cisterna magna injections of hUCB-MSCs activated endogenous hippocampal 
neurogenesis and significantly reduced Aβ42 levels. To identify the paracrine 
factors released from the hUCB-MSCs that stimulated endogenous hippocampal 
neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus, we cocultured adult mouse neural stem cells 
(NSCs) with hUCB-MSCs and analyzed the cocultured media with cytokine arrays. 
Growth differentiation factor-15 (GDF-15) levels were significantly increased in 
the media. GDF-15 suppression in hUCB-MSCs with GDF-15 small interfering RNA 
reduced the proliferation of NSCs in cocultures. Conversely, recombinant GDF-15 
treatment in both in vitro and in vivo enhanced hippocampal NSC proliferation 
and neuronal differentiation. Repeated administration of hUBC-MSCs markedly 
promoted the expression of synaptic vesicle markers, including synaptophysin, 
which are downregulated in patients with AD. In addition, in vitro synaptic 
activity through GDF-15 was promoted. Taken together, these results indicated 
that repeated cisterna magna administration of hUCB-MSCs enhanced endogenous 
adult hippocampal neurogenesis and synaptic activity through a paracrine factor 
of GDF-15, suggesting a possible role of hUCB-MSCs in future treatment 
strategies for AD.

DOI: 10.1089/scd.2014.0487
PMCID: PMC4598918
PMID: 26154268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Transplantation. 2016 Jan;100(1):153-8. doi: 10.1097/TP.0000000000000806.

Use of Elderly Allografts in Liver Transplantation.

Paterno F(1), Wima K, Hoehn RS, Cuffy MC, Diwan TS, Woodle SE, Abbott DE, Shah 
SA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Transplantation, Department of Surgery, Cincinnati Clinical 
Research Group in Surgery (CROSS), University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH.

INTRODUCTION: The use of liver allografts from elderly donors (≥70 years) has 
increased because of organ shortage and increased life expectancy. The aim of 
this study is to evaluate the current utilization of elderly donors in United 
States, recipient selection, and their posttransplant outcomes.
METHODS: A linkage between Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients and 
University HealthSystem Consortium databases was performed. Between January 2007 
and December 2011, 12,445 liver transplant (LT) recipients were identified and 
divided into 2 cohorts based on donor age: 70 years or older (n = 540) and 
younger than 60 years (n = 10,473).
RESULTS: Elderly donors accounted for 4.3% of all donors used in the 5-year 
period. When compared to younger donors, elderly donors were more likely to be 
women, shared regionally or nationally, and used at higher volume centers. 
Elderly donor allografts were less likely to be used in recipients with model of 
end-stage liver disease score higher than 27 (13.2% vs. 23.0%, P < 0.001), 
hospitalized (16.8% vs. 21.7%, P = 0.03), or on hemodialysis at time of 
transplant (2.6% vs. 8.2%, P < 0.001). Both recipient groups had similar 
perioperative mortality, 30-day readmission rates, and short-term patient 
survival. In the multivariate analysis, including recipient, donor, center and 
regional factors, donor age 70 years or older was associated with slightly 
increased risk of graft loss (hazard ratio, 1.3; 95% confidence interval, 
1.08-1.56; P = 0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: The current trend toward the use of elderly donors in liver 
transplant recipients with low model of end-stage liver disease scores (<27), 
without hepatitis C, not hospitalized and not on dialysis, is associated with 
acceptable perioperative outcomes, patient survival, and slightly worse graft 
survival.

DOI: 10.1097/TP.0000000000000806
PMID: 26154390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Curr Opin Oncol. 2015 Sep;27(5):365-70. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000213.

Management of elderly patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia in the era of 
targeted therapies.

Ysebaert L(1), Feugier P, Michallet AS.

Author information:
(1)aService d'Hematologie, IUC-Toulouse Oncopole, Toulouse bService 
d'Hematologie, Hôpitaux de Brabois, Vandoeuvre Les Nancy cService d'Hématologie, 
Centre Hospitalier Lyon Sud, HCL, Pierre Bénite, France.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is frequently diagnosed 
after 71 years, though median age in published clinical trials with standard 
chemoimmunotherapy regimens in frontline or relapse setting is mostly below 70 
years (58-71 years). Development of oral, less toxic and thus more affordable 
targeted therapies offers new therapeutic options in those patients deemed unfit 
for chemotherapy.
RECENT FINDINGS: This review will discuss results of these new agents in the 
therapy of elderly patients. Apart from discussing the impact of chronological 
age, creatinine clearance and cumulative illness rating scale scores in the 
clinical outcomes, we will also discuss how individualized treatment 
decision-making should include more precise geriatric assessment tools to 
thoroughly assess life expectancy, anticipate tolerability, to avoid deleterious 
stress precipitating prefrail patients into definitive loss of capacity, with 
dramatic social and economic costs.
SUMMARY: In the era of new targeted agents to fight cancers, we propose concepts 
to help us understand how elderly dedicated trial designs and geriatric 
assessment tools (apart from the evaluation of CLL biological risk factors) will 
undoubtedly revolutionize therapeutic approaches in everyday practice CLL 
patients.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000213
PMID: 26154708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Popul Health Metr. 2015 Jul 8;13:15. doi: 10.1186/s12963-015-0052-2.
eCollection  2015.

How much might a society spend on life-saving interventions at different ages 
while remaining cost-effective? A case study in a country with detailed data.

Kvizhinadze G(1), Wilson N(1), Nair N(1), McLeod M(1), Blakely T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Otago, Wellington, PO Box 7343, 
Wellington New Zealand.

OBJECTIVE: We aimed to estimate the maximum intervention cost (EMIC) a society 
could invest in a life-saving intervention at different ages while remaining 
cost-effective according to a user-specified cost-effectiveness threshold.
METHODS: New Zealand (NZ) was used as a case study, and a health system 
perspective was taken. Data from NZ life tables and morbidity data from a burden 
of disease study were used to estimate health-adjusted life-years (HALYs) gained 
by a life-saving intervention. Health system costs were estimated from a 
national database of all publicly funded health events (hospitalizations, 
outpatient events, pharmaceuticals, etc.). For illustrative purposes we followed 
the WHO-CHOICE approach and used a cost-effectiveness threshold of the gross 
domestic product (GDP) per capita (NZ$45,000 or US$30,000 per HALY). We then 
calculated EMICs for an "ideal" life-saving intervention that fully returned 
survivors to the same average morbidity, mortality, and cost trajectories as the 
rest of their cohort.
FINDINGS: The EMIC of the "ideal" life-saving intervention varied markedly by 
age: NZ$1.3 million (US$880,000) for an intervention to save the life of a 
child, NZ$0.8 million (US$540,000) for a 50-year-old, and NZ$0.235 million 
(US$158,000) for an 80-year-old. These results were predictably very sensitive 
to the choice of discount rate and to the selected cost-effectiveness threshold. 
Using WHO data, we produced an online calculator to allow the performance of 
similar calculations for all other countries.
CONCLUSIONS: We present an approach to estimating maximal cost-effective 
investment in life-saving health interventions, under various assumptions. Our 
online calculator allows this approach to be applied in other countries. 
Policymakers could use these estimates as a rapid screening tool to determine if 
more detailed cost-effectiveness analyses of potential life-saving interventions 
might be worthwhile or which proposed life-saving interventions are very 
unlikely to benefit from such additional research.

DOI: 10.1186/s12963-015-0052-2
PMCID: PMC4493819
PMID: 26155199


107. BMC Public Health. 2015 Jul 9;15:625. doi: 10.1186/s12889-015-1931-y.

The health and economic benefits of reducing intimate partner violence: an 
Australian example.

Cadilhac DA(1)(2)(3), Sheppard L(4), Cumming TB(5), Thayabaranathan T(6), Pearce 
DC(7), Carter R(8), Magnus A(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Translational Public Health Unit, Stroke & Ageing 
Research, School of Clinical Sciences, Monash University, Monash Health Research 
Precinct (MHRP) Building, Level 1, 43-51 Kanooka Grove, Clayton, 3168, VIC, 
Australia. dominique.cadilhac@monash.edu.
(2)Stroke Division, Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, 245 
Burgundy St, Heidelberg, 3084, VIC, Australia. dominique.cadilhac@monash.edu.
(3)Deakin Health Economics, Deakin University, Burwood, 3125, VIC, Australia. 
dominique.cadilhac@monash.edu.
(4)Deakin Health Economics, Deakin University, Burwood, 3125, VIC, Australia. 
lauren.sheppard@deakin.edu.au.
(5)Stroke Division, Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, 245 
Burgundy St, Heidelberg, 3084, VIC, Australia. toby.cumming@florey.edu.au.
(6)Department of Medicine, Translational Public Health Unit, Stroke & Ageing 
Research, School of Clinical Sciences, Monash University, Monash Health Research 
Precinct (MHRP) Building, Level 1, 43-51 Kanooka Grove, Clayton, 3168, VIC, 
Australia. tharshanah.thayabaranathan@monash.edu.
(7)Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, Faculty of Medicine, 
Dentistry & Health Sciences, The University of Melbourne, 3010, Melbourne, 
Australia. dpearce@unimelb.edu.au.
(8)Deakin Health Economics, Deakin University, Burwood, 3125, VIC, Australia. 
rob.carter@deakin.edu.au.
(9)Deakin Health Economics, Deakin University, Burwood, 3125, VIC, Australia. 
anne.magnus@deakin.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: Intimate partner violence (IPV) has important impacts on the health 
of women in society. Our aim was to estimate the health and economic benefits of 
reducing the prevalence of IPV in the 2008 Australian female adult population.
METHODS: Simulation models were developed to show the effect of a 5 percentage 
point absolute feasible reduction target in the prevalence of IPV from current 
Australian levels (27%). IPV is not measured in national surveys. Levels of 
psychological distress were used as a proxy for exposure to IPV since 
psychological conditions represent three-quarters of the disease burden from 
IPV. Lifetime cohort health benefits for females were estimated as fewer 
incident cases of violence-related disease and injury; deaths; and Disability 
Adjusted Life Years (DALYs). Opportunity cost savings were estimated for the 
health sector, paid and unpaid production and leisure from reduced incidence of 
IPV-related disease and deaths. Workforce production gains were estimated by 
comparing surveyed participation and absenteeism rates of females with moderate 
psychological distress (lifetime IPV exposure) against high or very high 
distress (current IPV exposure), and valued using the friction cost approach 
(FCA). The impact of improved health status on unpaid household production and 
leisure time were modelled from time use survey data. Potential costs associated 
with interventions to reduce IPV were not considered. Multivariable uncertainty 
analyses and univariable sensitivity analyses were undertaken.
RESULTS: A 5 percentage point absolute reduction in the lifetime prevalence of 
IPV in the 2008 Australian female population was estimated to produce 6000 fewer 
incident cases of disease/injury, 74 fewer deaths, 5000 fewer DALYs lost and 
provide gains of 926,000 working days, 371,000 days of home-based production and 
428,000 leisure days. Overall, AUD371 million in opportunity cost savings could 
be achievable. The greatest economic savings would be home-based production 
(AUD147 million), followed by leisure time (AUD98 million), workforce production 
(AUD94 million) and reduced health sector costs (AUD38 million).
CONCLUSIONS: This study contributes new knowledge about the economic impact of 
IPV in females. The findings provide evidence of large potential opportunity 
cost savings from reducing the prevalence of IPV and reinforce the need to 
reduce IPV in Australia, and elsewhere.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-015-1931-y
PMCID: PMC4495849
PMID: 26155794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Violence Against Women. 2015 Nov;21(11):1364-84. doi:
10.1177/1077801215593647.  Epub 2015 Jul 7.

The Link Between ADHD and the Risk of Sexual Victimization Among College Women: 
Expanding the Lifestyles/Routine Activities Framework.

Snyder JA(1).

Author information:
(1)University of West Florida, Pensacola, USA Jsnyder1@uwf.edu.

Using data from a nationally representative sample of college women, the current 
study examines attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) as a potential 
risk factor in the prediction of sexual victimization among college women and as 
an extension of the lifestyles/routine activities framework. The findings 
indicate that college women with ADHD experienced sexual victimization at 
significantly higher rates than college women without ADHD. Furthermore, ADHD 
emerged as a significant predictor of sexual victimization across models. The 
lifestyles/routine activities theory also received general support, particularly 
for the concepts of exposure, proximity, and guardianship. This research 
suggests that other risk factors outside the lifestyles/routine activities 
framework are important in the prediction of sexual victimization in college 
women.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/1077801215593647
PMID: 26155795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Sci Rep. 2015 Jul 9;5:11871. doi: 10.1038/srep11871.

Demographic comparison of sweetpotato weevil reared on a major host, Ipomoea 
batatas, and an alternative host, I. triloba.

Reddy GV(1), Chi H(2).

Author information:
(1)Western Triangle Agricultural Research Center, Montana State University, 9546 
Old Shelby Rd., P. O. Box 656, Conrad, MT 59425, USA.
(2)Laboratory of Theoretical and Applied Ecology, Department of Entomology, 
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung 402, Taiwan, Republic of China.

In this study, we collected life table data for the sweetpotato weevil, Cylas 
formicarius, grown on Ipomoea batatas and Ipomoea triloba, and analyzed them 
using an age-stage, two-sex life table. We also demonstrated the growth 
potential of C. formicarius on these two host plants by using population 
projection. These data will be useful to the growers to the selection or 
eradication of host plants in an integrated control strategy for C. formicarius 
for the entire area of the targeted areas. We found that C. formicarius 
developed faster on I. batatas than on I. triloba. The developmental times of 
the larval and pupal stages on I. batatas than on I. triloba were 37.01 and 8.3 
days. The adult females emerged before and began to produce eggs at 42 days 
earlier when reared on I. batatas. The fecundity of females was 90.0 eggs on I. 
batatas significantly higher than the mean fecundity of 68.5 eggs on I. triloba. 
Although this insect has a higher intrinsic rate of increase on I. batatas, the 
study indicated that C. formicarius can successfully survive and reproduce on 
both host plants.

DOI: 10.1038/srep11871
PMCID: PMC4496664
PMID: 26156566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. J Phys Ther Sci. 2015 May;27(5):1445-9. doi: 10.1589/jpts.27.1445. Epub 2015
May  26.

Aerobic training during hemodialysis improves body composition, muscle function, 
physical performance, and quality of life in chronic kidney disease patients.

Bae YH(1), Lee SM(2), Jo JI(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, 
Republic of Korea ; Department of Physical Therapy, Angelo State University, 
USA.
(2)Department of Physical Therapy, Sahmyook University, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Physical Therapy, New York University, USA.

[Purpose] We assessed the influences of individualized aerobic training on body 
composition, knee joint muscle function, physical performance, and quality of 
life in chronic kidney disease patients. [Subjects] Ten chronic kidney disease 
patients undergoing dialysis. [Methods] Overall physical function and quality of 
life before and after 12 weeks of aerobic training were evaluated by body 
composition, the six-minute walk test, cardiopulmonary exercise tests, and Short 
Form 36-item questionnaire. [Results] The six-minute walk test distance 
increased significantly after 12 weeks aerobic training. Resting metabolic rate, 
lactate threshold, maximum oxygen uptake, and quality of life tended to increase 
after training. Post-training weight, muscle mass, body fat mass, fat 
percentage, body mass index, and peak torque of right and left knee extension 
and flexion did not change significantly. [Conclusion] Intra-dialytic training 
can a safe approach to maintain or improve physical performance and quality of 
life of chronic kidney disease patients undergoing hemodialysis without adverse 
events or negative cardiovascular responses. Aerobic training may prevent a 
decline in body composition and knee joint muscle function due to inactivity in 
chronic kidney disease patients. Clinically, aerobic training may initially be 
adapted to maintain overall physical function or improve quality of life in 
chronic kidney disease patients undergoing hemodialysis.

DOI: 10.1589/jpts.27.1445
PMCID: PMC4483415
PMID: 26157237


111. Acta Chir Belg. 2015 May-Jun;115(3):208-11. doi:
10.1080/00015458.2015.11681098.

The Impact of Blunt Thoracic Aortic Injury on Patients Aged 80 Years or Older.

Malgor RD(1), Bilfinger TV, McCormack J, Tassiopoulos AK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery at University of Oklahoma, Tulsa, Oklahoma, USA.

BACKGROUND: Blunt thoracic aortic injury (BTAI) is rare and associated with 
significant morbidity and mortality in trauma patients. As the population ages 
and life expectancy increases, the frequency of this injury will increase in the 
elderly and thus it behoves us to understand treatment and outcome in this 
patient population.
METHODS: We analysed prospectively collected data of 10 patients > 80 years old 
with BTAI (Group A) treated among 26,000 trauma patients over a 20-year period 
in a Level 1 trauma center to investigate BTAI morbidity and mortality. Age, 
gender, and injurity severity score (ISS) matching was performed to create a 
case-control study of elderly trauma patients with (Group A) and without BTAI 
(Group B).
RESULTS: Ten elderly trauma patients were found to have BTAI. Five (50%) were 
males and 5 (50%) were female. The cohort mean age was 86 years (range: 80 to 
95). All but one patient (fall injury) were involved in motor vehicle accidents. 
The mean ISS in group A was 29 ± 12. In group A, 2 (20%) patients (ISS = 36 and 
33) succumbed in the emergency department. Six (60%) patients were treated 
non-operatively and the remaining 2 (20%) patients (88 and 84 years) underwent 
open aortic repair with patch angioplasty and Dacron interposition grafting. No 
postoperative paraplegia or stroke related to surgery occurred. Two patients in 
Group A survived hospitalization and were eventually discharged. Patients in 
Group B had lower overall LOS, ICU LOS and 30-day mortality rates despite 
similar ISS.
CONCLUSION: Patients aged 80 or older who have experienced BTAI tend to have 
worse outcomes than those without BTAI regardless of similar ISS. Therefore, 
because of the low incident of this injury in general and particularly in the 
elderly, only pooled data from multiple institutions will be able to shed light 
on the complex issues surrounding treatment decisions in a group of patients 
with an a priori limited life expectancy.

© Acta Chirurgica Belgica.

DOI: 10.1080/00015458.2015.11681098
PMID: 26158252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Oncotarget. 2015 Jul 10;6(19):17648-60. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.3893.

Attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella Typhimurium lacking the ZnuABC 
transporter contrasts tumor growth promoting anti-cancer immune response.

Chirullo B(1), Ammendola S(2), Leonardi L(3), Falcini R(4), Petrucci P(1), 
Pistoia C(1), Vendetti S(5), Battistoni A(2), Pasquali P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Public Health and Food Safety, Istituto Superiore di 
Sanità, Rome 00161, Italy.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Rome 00133, Italy.
(3)Università degli Studi di Perugia, Department of Veterinary Medicine, Perugia 
06126, Italy.
(4)Veterinary Clinic, Rieti 02043, Italy.
(5)Department of Infectious, Parasitic and Immune-Mediated Diseases, Istituto 
Superiore di Sanità, Rome 00161, Italy.

Salmonella Typhimurium has been shown to be highly effective as antitumor agent. 
The aim of this study was to investigate the tumor targeting efficacy and the 
mechanism of action of a specific attenuated mutant strain of Salmonella 
Typhimurium (STM) devoid of the whole operon coding for the high-affinity zinc 
transporter ZnuABC, which is required for bacterial growth in environments poor 
in zinc and for conferring full virulence to different Gram-negative 
pathogens.We showed that STM is able to penetrate and replicate into tumor cells 
in in vitro and in vivo models. The subcutaneous administration of STM in 
mammary adenocarcinoma mouse model led to both reduction of tumor growth and 
increase in life expectancy of STM treated mice. Moreover, investigating the 
potential mechanism behind the favorable clinical outcomes, we provide evidence 
that STM stimulates a potent inflammatory response and a specific immune 
pattern, recruiting a large number of innate and adaptive immune cells capable 
to contrast the immunosuppressive environment generated by tumors.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.3893
PMCID: PMC4627335
PMID: 26158862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors disclose no 
conflicts of interest.


113. Dig Dis. 2015;33(4):590-7. doi: 10.1159/000375349. Epub 2015 Jul 6.

Systemic Treatment: Expecting Further Success.

Gazzola A(1), Reig M, Di Donato R, Bruix J.

Author information:
(1)Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) Group, Liver Unit, Hospital Clinic, 
IDIBAPS, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.

From its approval in 2008, sorafenib is the recommended treatment option for 
advanced-stage patients and its safety and efficacy has been confirmed by 
several studies. However, its mechanism of action is not completely understood 
and many efforts have been dedicated to investigating possible treatment 
response predictors. Dermatological adverse events occurring within the first 2 
months of treatment are predictors of longer survival, while the same role for 
hypertension and diarrhea still needs a prospective confirmation. This 
association is opposite to the strategy of starting at a low dose as it may 
imply suboptimal drug exposure. In case of radiological progression, the 
appearance of new extrahepatic metastasis or vascular invasion significantly 
worsens life expectancy if compared to other patterns of progression. To date no 
genetic or biologic marker is available to predict response, even if some 
encouraging results have been reported by the study of polymorphism of VEGF and 
its receptor. Currently, data are conflicting about the possible predictive role 
of α-fetoprotein. Due to failure or the progression of therapies for earlier 
evolutionary stages (BCLC B) some patients in such a clinical profile may be 
treated with sorafenib. Indeed, almost 50% of the sorafenib-treated patients 
belong to this class. Patients with severely decompensated liver disease 
(jaundice, ascites in need of intense diuretic therapy/paracentesis) may not 
benefit from treatment. The use of sorafenib in the waiting list for liver 
transplantation is controversial, while its use at an advanced age requires 
careful evaluation of existing comorbidities that may increase the risk of 
adverse events. Many strides have been made in the field of hepatocellular 
carcinoma systemic therapy, and many remain to be realized. Considering the 
disappointing results of the trials conducted on new agents, a more dynamic 
interpretation of events together with the development of new strategies is key 
to enriching new and hopefully more successful trials.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000375349
PMID: 26159279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Anaesthesist. 2015 Jul;64(7):532-9. doi: 10.1007/s00101-015-0047-1. Epub
2015  Jul 10.

[Patient with a Fontan circulation undergoing caesarean section: 
Anesthesiological management].

[Article in German]

Schneck E(1), Mann V, Körner C, Jost A, Thul J, Engel JB, Müller MF.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Anästhesiologie und operative Intensivmedizin, 
Universitätsklinikum Gießen und Marburg, Standort Gießen, Sektion 
Kinderherzzentrum, Rudolf-Buchheim-Str. 7, 35392, Gießen, Deutschland, 
emmanuel.schneck@chiru.med.uni-giessen.de.

Adults suffering from congenital heart diseases (CHD) represent a challenge to 
anesthesiologists because of the diverse pathologies, complex pathophysiology 
and special treatment strategies. Due to improved therapeutic options for CHD, 
patient quality of life and life expectancy is increasing, leaving them as a 
growing population including pregnant patients with CHD. This article presents 
the main principles of the pathophysiology and anesthesiological management of 
pregnant patients living with a Fontan circulation based on a case report, which 
was complicated by an aortic coarctation and atonic uterine hemorrhage.

DOI: 10.1007/s00101-015-0047-1
PMID: 26159666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Orthopade. 2015 Sep;44(9):703-709. doi: 10.1007/s00132-015-3136-6.

[Supportive drugs for improved implant healing].

[Article in German]

Skripitz R(1), Kurth A(2), Roth A(3).

Author information:
(1)Orthopädische Klinik und Poliklinik, Universitätsmedizin Rostock, Doberaner 
Str. 142, 18057, Rostock, Deutschland. ralf.skripitz@med.uni-rostock.de.
(2)Themistocles Gluck Hospital, Ratingen, Deutschland.
(3)Bereich Endoprothetik/Orthopädie, Klinik für Orthopädie, Unfallchirurgie und 
Plastische Chirurgie, Universitätsklinik Leipzig AöR, Leipzig, Deutschland.

BACKGROUND: Improvement of implant healing in orthopedic and trauma surgery 
serves to improve the life expectancy of the implant. Good primary stability by 
clamping is a prerequisite for secondary stability and for the actual 
integration and healing of the implant.
RESULTS: Possible causes of implant loosening are abrasive particles, which 
arrive at non-integrated implants at the unsealed prosthesis-bone interface and 
provoke a macrophage-mediated foreign body reaction, resulting in periprosthetic 
osteolysis. Numerous animal studies have already described the use of 
bisphosphonates to inhibit osteolysis induced by abrasion and secondary 
instability. In patients with total knee arthroplasty, a decrease in prosthetic 
migration under the influence of bisphosphonates could be shown. The stimulation 
of bone formation around the implants and the resulting implant healing was 
demonstrated both in animal experiments for bone morphogenetic proteins (BMP) 
and in case reports for intermittent parathyroid hormone administration.
CONCLUSION: By using supportive drugs, it is possible to achieve an improvement 
in the osseointegration of implants; thus, more rapid secondary stability and 
load-bearing are expected.

DOI: 10.1007/s00132-015-3136-6
PMID: 26160658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Eur Respir J. 2015 Nov;46(5):1407-16. doi: 10.1183/13993003.00325-2015. Epub
 2015 Jul 9.

Cost-effectiveness of adult pneumococcal conjugate vaccination in the 
Netherlands.

Mangen MJ(1), Rozenbaum MH(2), Huijts SM(3), van Werkhoven CH(4), Postma DF(4), 
Atwood M(5), van Deursen AM(6), van der Ende A(7), Grobbee DE(8), Sanders EA(9), 
Sato R(10), Verheij TJ(11), Vissink CE(11), Bonten MJ(12), de Wit GA(13).

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands These authors contributed equally 
m.j.j.mangen@umcutrecht.nl.
(2)Pfizer, Capelle a/d IJssel, The Netherlands Unit of Pharmacoepidemiology and 
PharmacoEconomics (PE2), Department of Pharmacy, University of Groningen, 
Groningen, The Netherlands These authors contributed equally.
(3)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands Department Respiratory Medicine, University 
Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands These authors contributed 
equally.
(4)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(5)Policy Analysis Inc., Brookline, MA, USA These authors are listed 
alphabetically.
(6)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands Spaarne Gasthuis Academie, Spaarne Gasthuis, 
Hoofddorp, The Netherlands Department of Pediatric Immunology and Infectious 
Diseases, Wilhelmina Children's Hospital, University Medical Center Utrecht, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands These authors are listed alphabetically.
(7)Department of Medical Microbiology, Netherlands Reference Laboratory for 
Bacterial Meningitis, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands These authors are listed alphabetically.
(8)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands Julius Clinical, Academic Contract Research 
Organization, Zeist, The Netherlands These authors are listed alphabetically.
(9)Department of Pediatric Immunology and Infectious Diseases, Wilhelmina 
Children's Hospital, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands 
These authors are listed alphabetically.
(10)Pfizer Inc., Collegeville, PA, USA These authors are listed alphabetically.
(11)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands These authors are listed 
alphabetically.
(12)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands Department of Medical Microbiology, 
University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands Joint senior 
authors.
(13)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands Joint senior authors.

Comment in
    Eur Respir J. 2015 Nov;46(5):1265-8.

The Community-Acquired Pneumonia Immunization Trial in Adults (CAPiTA) 
demonstrated the efficacy of 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) in 
preventing vaccine-type community-acquired pneumonia and vaccine-type invasive 
pneumococcal disease in elderly subjects. We examined the cost-effectiveness of 
PCV13 vaccination in the Netherlands. Using a Markov-type model, incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) of PCV13 vaccination in different age- and 
risk-groups for pneumococcal disease were evaluated using a societal 
perspective. Estimates of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), costs, vaccine 
efficacy and epidemiological data were based on the CAPiTA study and other 
prospective studies. The base-case was PCV13 vaccination of adults aged 
65-74 years compared to no vaccination, assuming no net indirect effects in 
base-case due to paediatric 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine use. 
Analyses for age- and risk-group specific vaccination strategies and for 
different levels of hypothetical herd effects from a paediatric PCV programme 
were also conducted. The ICER for base-case was €8650 per QALY (95% CI 
5750-17,100). Vaccination of high-risk individuals aged 65-74 years was 
cost-saving and extension to medium-risk individuals aged 65-74 years yielded an 
ICER of €2900. Further extension to include medium- and high-risk individuals 
aged ≥18 years yielded an ICER of €3100.PCV13 vaccination is highly 
cost-effective in the Netherlands. The transferability of our results to other 
countries depends upon vaccination strategies already implemented in those 
countries.

Copyright ©ERS 2015.

DOI: 10.1183/13993003.00325-2015
PMCID: PMC4750466
PMID: 26160871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: Disclosures can be found 
alongside the online version of this article at erj.ersjournals.com


117. Perspect Psychol Sci. 2010 Nov;5(6):632-48. doi: 10.1177/1745691610388762.

The Influence of Age-Related Cues on Health and Longevity.

Hsu LM(1), Chung J(2), Langer EJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA.
(2)MIT Media Lab, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA.
(3)Department of Psychology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 
langer@wjh.harvard.edu.

Environmental cues that signal aging may directly and indirectly prime 
diminished capacity. Similarly, the absence of these cues may prime improved 
health. The authors investigated the effects of age cues on health and longevity 
in five very different settings. The findings include the following: First, 
women who think they look younger after having their hair colored/cut show a 
decrease in blood pressure and appear younger in photographs (in which their 
hair is cropped out) to independent raters. Second, clothing is an age-related 
cue. Uniforms eliminate these age-related cues: Those who wear work uniforms 
have lower morbidity than do those who earn the same amount of money and do not 
wear work uniforms. Third, baldness cues old age. Men who bald prematurely see 
an older self and therefore age faster: Prematurely bald men have an excess risk 
of getting prostate cancer and coronary heart disease than do men who do not 
prematurely bald. Fourth, women who bear children later in life are surrounded 
by younger age-related cues: Older mothers have a longer life expectancy than do 
women who bear children earlier in life. Last, large spousal age differences 
result in age-incongruent cues: Younger spouses live shorter lives and older 
spouses live longer lives than do controls.

© The Author(s) 2010.

DOI: 10.1177/1745691610388762
PMID: 26161881


118. Eur Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2016 Apr;25(4):361-71. doi: 
10.1007/s00787-015-0743-z. Epub 2015 Jul 11.

Child and adolescent mental health problems in Tyva Republic, Russia, as 
possible risk factors for a high suicide rate.

Slobodskaya HR(1), Semenova NB(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Physiology and Basic Medicine, Novosibirsk State University, 
Timakova Str., 4, Novosibirsk, 630117, Russia. hslob@physiol.ru.
(2)Scientific Research Institute of Medical Problems of the North, Partizan 
Zheleznyak Str., 3G, Krasnoyarsk, 660022, Russia.

High rates of child mental health problems in the Russian Federation have 
recently been documented; the rates of youth suicide are among the highest in 
the world. Across the Russian regions, Republic of Tyva has one of the highest 
rates of child and adolescent suicide and the lowest life expectancy at birth. 
The aim of this study was to investigate the prevalence and associations of 
mental health problems in Native Tyvinian children and adolescents using 
internationally recognised measures and diagnoses. A two-stage, two-phase design 
involved selection of schools in five rural settlements in Western Tyva and two 
schools in the capital city followed by selection of Native Tyvinian children in 
grades 3-4 (ages 9-10) and 6-7 (ages 14-15). In the first phase, a screening 
measure of psychopathology, the Rutter Teacher Questionnaire, was obtained on 
1048 children with a 97% participation rate. In the second phase, more detailed 
psychiatric assessments were carried out for subgroups of screen-positive and 
screen-negative children. The prevalence of mental health problems was about 
25%, ranging from 40% in adolescent boys from rural areas to 9% in adolescent 
girls from the city. The patterning of disorders and risk factors were similar 
to those in other countries, rural areas were associated with an increased risk 
of psychopathology. The findings indicate that there is an urgent need for 
interventions to reduce risk in this population and provide effective help for 
Tyvinian children and adolescents with mental health problems.

DOI: 10.1007/s00787-015-0743-z
PMID: 26162484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Palliat Med. 2016 Apr;30(4):363-73. doi: 10.1177/0269216315594974. Epub 2015
Jul  10.

Past trends and projections of hospital deaths to inform the integration of 
palliative care in one of the most ageing countries in the world.

Sarmento VP(1), Higginson IJ(2), Ferreira PL(3), Gomes B(4).

Author information:
(1)King's College London, Cicely Saunders Institute, Department of Palliative 
Care, Policy and Rehabilitation, London, UK Serviço de Medicina 2, Hospital do 
Espírito Santo de Évora, Évora, Portugal.
(2)King's College London, Cicely Saunders Institute, Department of Palliative 
Care, Policy and Rehabilitation, London, UK.
(3)University of Coimbra, Centre for Health Studies and Research, Coimbra, 
Portugal.
(4)King's College London, Cicely Saunders Institute, Department of Palliative 
Care, Policy and Rehabilitation, London, UK barbara.gomes@kcl.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Monitoring where people die is key to ensure that palliative care is 
provided in a responsive and integrated way.
AIM: To examine trends of place of death and project hospital deaths until 2030 
in an ageing country without integrated palliative care.
DESIGN: Population-based observational study of mortality with past trends 
analysis of place of death by gender, age and cause of death. Hospital deaths 
were projected until 2030, applying three scenarios modelled on 5-year trends 
(2006-2010).
SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: All adult deaths (⩾18 years old) that occurred in 
Portuguese territory from 1988 to 2010.
RESULTS: There were 2,364,932 deceased adults in Portugal from 1988 to 2010. 
Annual numbers of deaths increased 11.1%, from 95,154 in 1988 to 105,691, mainly 
due to more than doubling deaths from people aged 85+ years. Hospital deaths 
increased by a mean of 0.8% per year, from 44.7% (n = 42,571) in 1988 to 61.7% 
(n = 65,221) in 2010. This rise was largest for those aged 85+ years (27.8% to 
54.0%). Regardless of the scenario considered, and if current trends continue, 
hospital deaths will increase by more than a quarter until 2030 (minimum 27.7%, 
maximum 52.1% rise) to at least 83,293 annual hospital deaths, mainly due to the 
increase in hospital deaths in those aged 85+ years.
CONCLUSION: In one of the most ageing countries in the world, there is a long 
standing trend towards hospitalised dying, more pronounced among the oldest old. 
To meet people's preferences for dying at home, the development of integrated 
specialist home palliative care teams is needed.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216315594974
PMCID: PMC4800459
PMID: 26163531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interests: The 
funders were not involved in the manuscript production or content, and the views 
are those of the authors, not any of the funding bodies.


120. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2015 Sep-Oct;61(2):161-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2015.06.009. Epub 2015 Jun 25.

Muscle mass and muscle function over the adult life span: a cross-sectional 
study in Flemish adults.

Charlier R(1), Mertens E(2), Lefevre J(1), Thomis M(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Kinesiology and Rehabilitation Sciences, Department of 
Kinesiology, Physical Activity, KU Leuven, Tervuursevest 101, 3001 Leuven, 
Belgium.
(2)Faculty of Physical Education and Physiotherapy, Department of Human 
Biometrics and Biomechanics, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Pleinlaan 2, 1050 
Brussels, Belgium.
(3)Faculty of Kinesiology and Rehabilitation Sciences, Department of 
Kinesiology, Physical Activity, KU Leuven, Tervuursevest 101, 3001 Leuven, 
Belgium. Electronic address: martine.thomis@faber.kuleuven.be.

BACKGROUND: Aging is accompanied with a progressive deterioration of skeletal 
muscle mass (SMM) and muscle function, also termed sarcopenia.
METHODS: The aim was to describe SMM (based on bioelectrical impedance) and 
muscle function of the leg extensors over the adult age span in 819 men and 578 
women, aged 18-78 years. The distribution of skeletal muscle index (SMI; 
SMM/height(2)) groups was described and muscle force-velocity characteristics 
were examined between SMI-groups over the adult life span. Subjects were divided 
into age categories and SMI groups to compare their muscle strength 
characteristics. Isometric and isokinetic strength, ballistic movement speed and 
muscular endurance of the knee extensors were evaluated on a Biodex dynamometer.
RESULTS: Age by gender interaction effects were found significant (P<0.01) for 
all strength tests. In general, the overall drop in slow and faster knee 
extension strength was larger than the isometric component, with women showing 
larger losses by the age of 60-70 years compared to men. Regression analysis 
revealed significant (P<0.01) age-related reductions, with the largest explained 
variance for the muscular endurance parameter (24%). No age by SMI-group 
interaction effect was observed for muscle function, but main effects of age and 
SMI were significant (P<0.01).
CONCLUSION: The age-related decline in muscle function was stronger in women. 
Furthermore, a low SMI results in a weaker muscle function compared to a normal 
SMI in each age-category, pointing out that its relationship with physical 
disability should therefore be further examined over the adult life-span.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2015.06.009
PMID: 26164372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Clin Ther. 2015 Aug;37(8):1726-39. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2015.05.512.
Epub  2015 Jul 8.

Evaluation of the Efficacy and Safety of the Lercanidipine/Valsartan Combination 
in Korean Patients With Essential Hypertension Not Adequately Controlled With 
Lercanidipine Monotherapy: A Randomized, Multicenter, Parallel Design, Phase III 
Clinical Trial.

Na SH(1), Lee HY(1), Hong Baek S(2), Jeon HK(3), Kang JH(4), Kim YN(5), Park 
CG(6), Ryu JK(7), Rhee MY(8), Kim MH(9), Hong TJ(10), Choi DJ(11), Cho SW(12), 
Cha DH(13), Jeon ES(14), Kim JJ(15), Shin JH(16), Park SH(17), Lee SH(18), John 
SH(19), Shin ES(20), Kim NH(21), Lee SY(22), Kwan J(23), Jeong MH(24), Kim 
SW(25), Jeong JO(26), Kim DW(27), Lee NH(28), Park WJ(29), Ahn JC(30), Won 
KH(31), Uk Lee S(32), Cho JH(33), Kim SK(34), Ahn T(35), Hong S(36), Yoo SY(37), 
Kim SY(38), Kim BS(39), Juhn JH(40), Kim SY(40), Lee YJ(40), Oh BH(1).

Author information:
(1)Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul National University 
Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(2)St. Mary's Hospital, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Uijeongbu St. Mary's Hospital, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, 
Korea.
(4)Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(5)Keimyung University, Dongsan Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(6)Korea University Guro Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(7)Daegu Catholic University Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(8)Dongguk University Ilsan Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(9)Dong-A University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(10)Pusan National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(11)Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(12)Bundang Jesaeng Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(13)CHA University Bundang CHA Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(14)Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(15)Asan Medical Center, College of Medicine, Ulsan University, Seoul, Korea.
(16)Ajou University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(17)Yonsei University College of Medicine Severance Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(18)Wonju Severance Christian Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(19)Presbyterian Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(20)Ulsan University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(21)Wonkwang University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(22)Inje University Ilsan-Paik Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(23)Inha University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(24)Chonnam National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(25)Chung-Ang University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(26)Chungnam National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(27)Chungbuk National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(28)Hallym University Kangnam Sacred Heart Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(29)Hallym University Sacred Heart Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(30)Korea University Ansan Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(31)Seoul Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(32)Kwangju Christian Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(33)St. Carollo Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(34)Hanyang University Guri Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(35)Gachon University Gil Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(36)Sejong General Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(37)Gangneng Asan Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(38)Jeju National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(39)Dae Dong Hospital, Seoul, Korea. Electronic address: ohbhmed@snu.ac.kr.
(40)LG Life Sciences Ltd, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 
the lercanidipine/valsartan combination compared with lercanidipine monotherapy 
in patients with hypertension.
METHODS: Part 1 of this study was the randomized, multicenter, double-blind, 
parallel group, Phase III, 8-week clinical trial to compare superiority of 
lercanidipine 10 mg/valsartan 80 mg (L10/V80) and lercanidipine 10 mg/valsartan 
160 mg (L10/V160) combinations with lercanidipine 10 mg (L10) monotherapy. At 
screening, hypertensive patients, whose diastolic blood pressure (DBP) was >90 
mm Hg after 4 weeks with L10, were randomized to 3 groups of L10, L10/V80, and 
L10/V160. The primary end point was the change in the mean sitting DBP from 
baseline (week 0) after 8 weeks of therapy. Patients who were randomly assigned 
to L10/V160 and whose mean DBP was still ≥ 90 mm Hg in part 1 were enrolled to 
the up-titration extension study with lercanidipine 20 mg/valsartan 160 mg 
(L20/V160) (part 2).
FINDINGS: Of 772 patients screened, 497 were randomized to 3 groups (166 in the 
L10 group, 168 in the L10/V80 group, and 163 in the L10/V160 group). Mean (SD) 
age was 55 (9.9) years, and male patients comprised 69%. The mean (SD) baseline 
systolic blood pressure (SBP)/DBP were 148.4 (15.1)/94.3 (9.5) mm Hg. No 
significant differences were found between groups in baseline characteristics 
except the percentages of previous history of antihypertensive medication. The 
primary end points, the changes of mean (SD) DBP at week 8 from the baseline 
were -2.0 (8.8) mm Hg in the L10 group, -6.7 (8.5) mm Hg in L10/V80 group, and 
-8.1 (8.4) mm Hg in L10/V160 group. The adjusted mean difference between the 
combination groups and the L10 monotherapy group was -4.6 mm Hg (95% CI, -6.5 to 
-2.6; P < 0.001) in the L10/V80 group and -5.9 mm Hg (95% CI, -7.9 to -4.0, P < 
0.001) in the L10/V160 group, which had significantly greater efficacy in BP 
lowering. A total of 74 patients were enrolled in the part 2 extension study. 
Changes of mean (SD) DBP and SBP from week 8 to week 12 and week 16 were -5.6 
(7.9)/-8.0 (12.0) mm Hg and -5.5 (7.0)/-8.5 (11.3) mm Hg, respectively. For 
evaluation of the safety profile, the frequencies of adverse events between 
groups were also not significantly different. The most frequently reported 
adverse events were headache (6 cases, 20.7%) in the L10 group, dizziness (8 
cases, 16.3%) in L10/V80 group, and nasopharyngitis (3 cases, 9.4%) in L10/V160 
group, and the incidences of adverse events were not different between groups.
IMPLICATIONS: Treatment of L10/V80 or L10/V160 combination therapy resulted in 
significantly greater BP lowering compared with L10 monotherapy. Moreover, the 
L20/V160 high dose combination had additional BP lowering effect compared with 
nonresponders with the L10/V160 combination. ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01928628.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2015.05.512
PMID: 26164786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Mayo Clin Proc. 2015 Aug;90(8):1030-7. doi: 10.1016/j.mayocp.2015.05.011.
Epub  2015 Jul 9.

Efficacy of 4 Years of Octreotide Long-Acting Release Therapy in Patients With 
Severe Polycystic Liver Disease.

Hogan MC(1), Masyuk T(2), Bergstralh E(3), Li B(3), Kremers WK(3), Vaughan 
LE(3), Ihrke A(4), Severson AL(4), Irazabal MV(4), Glockner J(5), LaRusso NF(2), 
