

18. J Med Syst. 2015 Aug;39(8):79. doi: 10.1007/s10916-015-0262-y. Epub 2015 Jun
28.

An Improved RSA Based User Authentication and Session Key Agreement Protocol 
Usable in TMIS.

Amin R(1), Biswas GP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, Engineering, Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad, 
826004, India, amin_ruhul@live.com.

Recently, Giri et al.'s proposed a RSA cryptosystem based remote user 
authentication scheme for telecare medical information system and claimed that 
the protocol is secure against all the relevant security attacks. However, we 
have scrutinized the Giri et al.'s protocol and pointed out that the protocol is 
not secure against off-line password guessing attack, privileged insider attack 
and also suffers from anonymity problem. Moreover, the extension of password 
guessing attack leads to more security weaknesses. Therefore, this protocol 
needs improvement in terms of security before implementing in real-life 
application. To fix the mentioned security pitfalls, this paper proposes an 
improved scheme over Giri et al.'s scheme, which preserves user anonymity 
property. We have then simulated the proposed protocol using widely-accepted 
AVISPA tool which ensures that the protocol is SAFE under OFMC and CL-AtSe 
models, that means the same protocol is secure against active and passive 
attacks including replay and man-in-the-middle attacks. The informal 
cryptanalysis has been also presented, which confirmed that the proposed 
protocol provides well security protection on the relevant security attacks. The 
performance analysis section compares the proposed protocol with other existing 
protocols in terms of security and it has been observed that the protocol 
provides more security and achieves additional functionalities such as user 
anonymity and session key verification.

DOI: 10.1007/s10916-015-0262-y
PMID: 26123833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Disabil Health J. 2016 Jan;9(1):127-33. doi: 10.1016/j.dhjo.2015.05.003. Epub
 2015 May 29.

Quality of life in Mexican patients with primary neurological or musculoskeletal 
disabilities.

Estrella-Castillo DF(1), Gómez-de-Regil L(2).

Author information:
(1)Universidad Autónoma de Yucatán, Facultad de Medicina, Avenida Itzáes No. 498 
x 59 y 59A Colonia Centro, Mérida, Yucatán CP 97000, Mexico.
(2)Hospital Regional de Alta Especialidad de la Península de Yucatán, Calle 7, 
No. 433 por 20 y 22, Fraccionamiento Altabrisa, Mérida, Yucatán 97130, Mexico. 
Electronic address: gomezderegil@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: As the population with a disability increases both in number and 
life expectancy, so does its demand for health services. Very little original 
research has been done in Mexican populations regarding the effect of disability 
on quality of life.
OBJECTIVES: 1) Assessing the subjective quality of life of patients with 
neuromusculoskeletal and movement-related function disabilities and, 2) 
Analyzing the possible effect of the medical condition (diseases of the nervous 
system vs. diseases of the musculoskeletal system and connective tissue) and its 
interaction with sex and age.
METHODS: In a cross-sectional design 330 participants were recruited from a 
public institution in Mexico providing specialized outpatient rehabilitation. 
After signing informed consent they responded a brief sociodemographic 
questionnaire and the WHOQOL-BREF scale.
RESULTS: In general quality of life levels were satisfactory. Female and elderly 
patients with diseases of the nervous system were particularly affected in the 
physical and psychological dimensions. Women with diseases of the nervous system 
also showed a negatively affected social quality of life. Elderly with diseases 
of the musculoskeletal system and connective tissue scored the lowest in general 
health perception.
CONCLUSIONS: Even though most patients were quite satisfied with their quality 
of life, not all aspects or cases have such positive perceptions; both the 
physical and psychological dimensions were particularly negative in female and 
elderly patients with nervous system diseases. Clinicians would do well to 
thoughtfully assess patients in these groups and adjust treatment to achieve the 
greatest possible rehabilitation.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dhjo.2015.05.003
PMID: 26123857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Drugs Aging. 2015 Jul;32(7):515-24. doi: 10.1007/s40266-015-0280-y.

Diagnosis and Management of Late-Onset Spondyloarthritis: Implications of 
Treat-to-Target Recommendations.

Toussirot É(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Investigation Center in Biotherapy, INSERM CIC-1431, University 
Hospital of Besançon, Place St Jacques, 25000, Besançon, France, 
etoussirot@chu-besancon.fr.

Spondyloarthritis (SpA) is usually observed in young patients while onset in the 
elderly is less common. Late-onset forms of SpA may become more common due to 
longer life expectancy. The clinical spectrum of late-onset SpA is as broad as 
in young people, with a predominance of peripheral SpA over pure axial disease. 
The Assessment of SpondyloArthritis international Society (ASAS) has developed 
new criteria for axial or peripheral SpA that allow patients aged under 45 years 
at the time of disease onset to be identified. These criteria are not 
theoretically adapted for the classification of patients with late-onset disease 
but they are useful for the diagnosis. Similarly, magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) is now widely used for the early recognition of sacroiliitis or spinal 
inflammation in SpA, and sacroiliitis as evidenced by MRI is included in the 
ASAS criteria for axial SpA. Nevertheless, the utility of sacroiliac joint 
and/or spine inflammation as detected by MRI has mostly been described in young 
patients with ankylosing spondylitis, SpA, or inflammatory back pain, but not in 
the elderly. The management of SpA is now more focused on remission or, 
alternatively, low disease activity, according to the treat-to-target 
recommendations. Such an optimized approach to therapy is thought to improve 
patient outcomes and ultimately long-term quality of life. The same principles 
of treatment should apply in the elderly, but require certain adjustments, 
especially with biological agents. Tumor necrosis factor-α blocking agents are 
very effective in SpA, but seem slightly less effective in the elderly and are 
associated with an increased risk of infection in this population. A careful and 
rigorous evaluation is thus required before initiating these agents in elderly 
subjects.

DOI: 10.1007/s40266-015-0280-y
PMID: 26123949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Amino Acids. 2015 Sep;47(9):1875-83. doi: 10.1007/s00726-015-2028-8. Epub
2015  Jun 28.

Homoarginine (hArg) and asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) in short stature 
children without and with growth hormone deficiency: hArg and ADMA are involved 
differently in growth in the childhood.

Langen J(1), Kayacelebi AA, Beckmann B, Weigt-Usinger K, Carmann C, Hörster I, 
Lilienthal E, Richter-Unruh A, Tsikas D, Lücke T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropaediatrics, Children's Hospital, University of Bochum, 
Alexandrinenstr. 5, 44791, Bochum, Germany.

Adult subjects with growth hormone (GH) deficiency (GHD) are known to have 
reduced life expectancy due to increased cardiovascular and cerebrovascular 
events. In adults, these events are associated with elevated circulating 
concentrations of asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) which is an endogenous 
inhibitor of L-arginine (Arg)-derived nitric oxide (NO). Low circulating 
concentrations of homoarginine (hArg) emerged as a cardiovascular risk factor. 
In adults, hArg seems to antagonize ADMA. In the present work, we tested the 
hypothesis that children with short stature without or with GHD have altered 
Arg/NO pathway as compared to children with normal growth. We studied 66 short 
stature children (38 boys, 28 girls) aged 3.5-17.3 years, who underwent the 
routine L-Arginine Test to diagnose presence of GHD. GHD was confirmed in 47 
children (GHD group; 30 boys, 17 girls) and was absent in the remaining 19 
children (non-GHD group; 8 boys, 11 girls). In addition, we investigated 24 
healthy age- and gender-matched children (10 boys, 14 girls) with normal growth. 
In EDTA plasma samples of all children, we determined by mass spectrometry-based 
methods the concentrations of Arg, hArg and ADMA, and calculated the Arg/ADMA 
and hArg/ADMA molar ratios. With respect to these biochemical parameters, we did 
not find statistically significant differences between the GHD and non-GHD 
groups. Comparing short with normal stature children, we found small differences 
regarding plasma hArg concentrations [mean ± SD; median (25th-75th percentile)]: 
2.06 ± 0.52 µM; 2.12 (1.74-2.36) µM vs. 1.7 ± 0.5 µM; 1.6 (1.4-1.8) µM, P < 
0.001. Compared to normal stature children, short stature children had 
considerably higher plasma concentrations of ADMA [0.77 ± 0.15 µM; 0.77 
(0.66-0.85) µM vs. 0.57 ± 0.09 µM; 0.58 (0.50-0.63) µM, P < 0.001], but not of 
Arg [83.3 ± 19.2 µM; 82.2 (71.9-90.3) µM vs. 86.5 ± 17.8 µM; 84.8 (77.2-94.8) 
µM, P = 0.336], or the hArg/ADMA ratio [2.74 ± 0.76; 2.7 (2.2-3.1) vs. 3.1 ± 
1.2; 2.85 (2.42-3.66), P = 0.161. hArg in the GHD group (r = 0.41, P = 0.004) 
and the hArg/ADMA ratio in both groups (r = 0.44, P = 0.002 in GHD; r = 0.55, P 
= 0.01 in non-GHD)], but not ADMA were positively correlated with insulin-like 
growth factor-1 (IGF-1). hArg and hArg/ADMA differed between girls and boys in 
the GHD and non-GHD groups but in the normal growth group. The hArg/ADMA ratio 
increased with age in all groups. Our study suggests that hArg and ADMA are 
involved in growth in the childhood, presumably in an antagonistic manner, with 
ADMA slowing and hArg accelerating growth.

DOI: 10.1007/s00726-015-2028-8
PMID: 26123987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Health Polit Policy Law. 2015 Aug;40(4):911-21. doi:
10.1215/03616878-3150160.  Epub 2015 Jun 29.

The Affordable Care Act versus Medicare for All.

Seidman L(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Delaware.

Many problems facing the Affordable Care Act would disappear if the nation were 
instead implementing Medicare for All - the extension of Medicare to every age 
group. Every American would be automatically covered for life. Premiums would be 
replaced with a set of Medicare taxes. There would be no patient cost sharing. 
Individuals would have free choice of doctors. Medicare's single-payer 
bargaining power would slow price increases and reduce medical cost as a 
percentage of gross domestic product (GDP). Taxes as a percentage of GDP would 
rise from below average to average for economically advanced nations. Medicare 
for All would be phased in by age.

Copyright © 2015 by Duke University Press.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-3150160
PMID: 26124300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Clin Ophthalmol. 2015 Jun 17;9:1099-107. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S86208.
eCollection  2015.

Long-term (60-month) results for the implantable miniature telescope: efficacy 
and safety outcomes stratified by age in patients with end-stage age-related 
macular degeneration.

Boyer D(1), Freund KB(2), Regillo C(3), Levy MH(4), Garg S(5).

Author information:
(1)Retina-Vitreous Associates Medical Group, Beverly Hills, CA, USA.
(2)Vitreous-Retina-Macula Consultants of New York, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Wills Eye Institute, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(4)Sarasota Retina Institute, Sarasota, FL, USA.
(5)The Gavin Herbert Eye Institute (University of California, Irvine) Irvine, 
CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the long-term results of 
an implantable miniature telescope (IMT) in patients with bilateral, end-stage, 
age-related macular degeneration (AMD).
METHODS: A prospective, open-label, multicenter clinical trial with fellow eye 
controls enrolled 217 patients (mean age 76 years) with AMD and 
moderate-to-profound bilateral central visual acuity loss (20/80-20/800) 
resulting from untreatable geographic atrophy, disciform scars, or both. A 
subgroup analysis was performed with stratification for age (patient age 65 to 
<75 years [group 1; n=70] and patient age ≥75 years [group 2; n=127]), with a 
comparative evaluation of change in best-corrected distance visual acuity 
(BCDVA), quality of life, ocular complications from surgery, adverse events, and 
endothelial cell density (ECD). Follow-up in an extension study was 60 months.
RESULTS: Data were available for 22, 38, and 31 patients in group 1 and 42, 46, 
and 32 patients in group 2 at 36, 48, and 60 months, respectively. Mean BCDVA 
improvement from baseline to 60 months was 2.41±2.69 lines in all patients 
(n=76), with 2.64±2.55 lines in group 1 and 2.09±2.88 lines in group 2. Quality 
of life scores were significantly higher in group 1. The most common significant 
surgery-related ocular complications in group 1 were iritis >30 days after 
surgery (7/70; 10%) and persistent corneal edema (3/70; 4.3%); and in group 2 
were a decrease in BCDVA in the implanted eye or IMT removal (10/127 each; 
7.9%), corneal edema >30 days after surgery (9/127; 7.1%), and persistent 
corneal edema (6/127; 4.7%). Significant adverse events included four corneal 
transplants, comprising two (2.9%) in group 1 and two (1.6%) in group 2. At 60 
months, one patient in group 1 (3.2%) and three patients in group 2 (9.4%) had 
lost ≥2 lines of vision. The IMT was removed in one (1.4%) and ten (7.9%) 
patients in group 1 and group 2, respectively. Mean ECD loss was 20% at 3 
months. Chronic loss was 3% per year. ECD loss was less in group 1 than in group 
2 (35% versus 40%, respectively) at 60 months.
CONCLUSION: Long-term results show substantial retention of improvement in 
BDCVA. Chronic ECD loss was consistent with that reported for conventional 
intraocular lenses. The IMT performed as well in group 1 (the younger group) as 
it did in group 2 through month 60. Younger patients retained more vision than 
their older counterparts and had fewer adverse events. Although not a specified 
outcome for this study, patients younger than 65 years also fared better than 
those in group 2 and retained more vision with fewer adverse events through 
month 60.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S86208
PMCID: PMC4476474
PMID: 26124633


24. J Autism Dev Disord. 2015 Nov;45(11):3613-23. doi: 10.1007/s10803-015-2507-5.

Treatment for Sleep Problems in Children with Autism and Caregiver Spillover 
Effects.

Tilford JM(1)(2), Payakachat N(3), Kuhlthau KA(4)(5), Pyne JM(6), Kovacs E(7), 
Bellando J(8), Williams DK(9), Brouwer WB(10), Frye RE(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, University of Arkansas for 
Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR, 72205, USA. tilfordmickj@uams.edu.
(2)Division of Pharmaceutical Evaluation and Policy, University of Arkansas for 
Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR, USA. tilfordmickj@uams.edu.
(3)Division of Pharmaceutical Evaluation and Policy, University of Arkansas for 
Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR, USA.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Center for Adolescent Health Policy, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
MA, USA.
(6)Center for Mental Healthcare and Outcomes Research, Central Arkansas Veterans 
Healthcare System and Psychiatric Research Institute, University of Arkansas for 
Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR, USA.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY, 
USA.
(8)Department of Pediatrics, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little 
Rock, AR, USA.
(9)Department of Biostatistics, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, 
Little Rock, AR, USA.
(10)Department of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.

Sleep problems in children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are 
under-recognized and under-treated. Identifying treatment value accounting for 
health effects on family members (spillovers) could improve the perceived 
cost-effectiveness of interventions to improve child sleep habits. A prospective 
cohort study (N = 224) was conducted with registry and postal survey data 
completed by the primary caregiver. We calculated quality of life outcomes for 
the child and the primary caregiver associated with treatments to improve sleep 
in the child based on prior clinical trials. Predicted treatment effects for 
melatonin and behavioral interventions were similar in magnitude for the child 
and for the caregiver. Accounting for caregiver spillover effects associated 
with treatments for the child with ASD increases treatment benefits and improves 
cost-effectiveness profiles.

DOI: 10.1007/s10803-015-2507-5
PMCID: PMC4609586
PMID: 26126749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2015 Aug;13(4):325-40. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-015-0183-4.

A Systematic Review of Studies Evaluating the Cost Utility of Screening 
High-Risk Populations for Latent Tuberculosis Infection.

Campbell JR(1), Sasitharan T, Marra F.

Author information:
(1)University of British Columbia, 2405 Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z3, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: As tuberculosis screening trends to targeting high-risk populations, 
knowing the cost effectiveness of such screening is vital to decision makers.
OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this review was to compile cost-utility analyses 
evaluating latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) screening in high-risk 
populations that used quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) as their measure of 
effectiveness.
DATA SOURCES: A literature search of MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Database of 
Systematic Reviews, Web of Knowledge, and PubMed was performed from database 
start to November 2014.
INCLUSION CRITERIA: Studies performed in populations at high risk of LTBI and 
subsequent reactivation that used the QALY as an effectiveness measure were 
included.
STUDY APPRAISAL AND SYNTHESIS: Quality was assessed using the Consolidated 
Health Economic Evaluation Reporting Standards (CHEERS) checklist. Data 
extracted included tuberculin skin test (TST) and/or interferon-gamma release 
assay (IGRA) use, economic, screening, treatment, health state, and 
epidemiologic parameters. Data were summarized in regard to consistency in model 
parameters and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), with costs 
adjusted to 2013 US dollars.
RESULTS: Of 415 studies identified, ultimately eight studies were included in 
the review. Most took a societal perspective (n = 4), used lifetime time 
horizons (n = 6), and used Markov models (n = 8). Screening of adult immigrants 
was found to be cost effective with a TST in one study, but moderately cost 
effective with an IGRA in another study; screening immigrants arriving more than 
5 years prior with an IGRA was moderately cost effective until 44 years of age 
(n = 1). Screening HIV-positive patients was highly cost effective with a TST 
(n = 1) and moderately cost effective with an IGRA (n = 1). Screening in those 
with renal diseases (n = 2) and diabetes (n = 1) was not cost effective.
LIMITATIONS: Very few studies used the QALY as their effectiveness measure. 
Parameter and study design inconsistencies limit the comparability of studies.
CONCLUSIONS: With validity issues in terms of parameters and assumptions, any 
conclusion should be interpreted with caution. Despite this, some cautionary 
recommendations emerged: screening HIV patients with a TST is highly cost 
effective, while screening adult immigrants with an IGRA is moderately cost 
effective.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-015-0183-4
PMID: 26129810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Curr Allergy Asthma Rep. 2015 Apr;15(4):15. doi: 10.1007/s11882-015-0515-3.

Presentation and Diagnosis of Hypersensitivity to Platinum Drugs.

Caiado J(1), Castells M.

Author information:
(1)Immunoallergology Department, Hospital de Santa Maria, Centro Hospitalar 
Lisboa Norte, Avenida Professor Egas Moniz, 1649-035, Lisbon, Portugal, 
joanacaiado@hotmail.com.

Hypersensitivity reactions (HSRs) to platinum drugs are increasing due to their 
extensive use in a wide variety of malignancies and the repeated exposures in 
patients with increased life expectancy. Understanding the incidence of HSR to 
platinum drugs and associated risk factors can help with the diagnosis and may 
provide protection against severe HSRs. A thorough clinical history with 
identification of the typical and atypical symptoms, the relationship with the 
platin administration, and the number of previous exposures are the key to the 
diagnosis. An elevated serum tryptase at the time of the HSR indicates that IgE 
and/or mast cells/basophils were involved in the HSR. Skin testing to platinum 
drugs is a highly sensitive and specific diagnostic tool, which helps provide 
risk stratification and management recommendations. Platinum specific IgE 
measurement and basophil activation test (BAT) are emerging as new diagnostic 
tools and in combination with skin testing can help support the diagnosis and 
the cross-reactivity between the three most commonly used platinum drugs, namely 
carboplatin, cisplatin, and oxaliplatin.

DOI: 10.1007/s11882-015-0515-3
PMID: 26130472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. In Vivo. 2015 Jul-Aug;29(4):415-22.

The Spectrum of Infectious Diseases in Kidney Transplantation: A Review of the 
Classification, Pathogens and Clinical Manifestations.

Anastasopoulos NA(1), Duni A(2), Peschos D(3), Agnantis N(4), Dounousi E(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Medical School, University of Ioannina, Ioannina, 
Greece.
(2)Department of Nephrology, University Hospital of Ioannina, Ioannina, Greece.
(3)Laboratory of Physiology, Medical School, University of Ioannina, Ioannina, 
Greece.
(4)Laboratory of Pathology, Medical School, University of Ioannina, Ioannina, 
Greece.
(5)Department of Nephrology, University Hospital of Ioannina, Ioannina, Greece 
evangeldou@gmail.com.

Kidney transplantation is the treatment-of-choice for a significant number of 
patients with end-stage renal disease. Renal transplant recipients (RTRs) 
benefit from a longer life expectancy, with a better quality of life. Despite, 
recent accomplishments in the field of kidney transplantation, both short- and 
long-term, surgical and medical complications still exist. Among these 
complications, cardiovascular disease, carcinogenesis and infections are the 
most important. Infectious diseases constitute the most common complications 
after renal transplantation and the second most common cause of death among RTRs 
with a functioning graft. Theoretically, all infectious pathogens could cause 
disease in immunocompromised RTRs, yet among these, one could identify more 
important ones, such as the Enterobacteriaceae, causing urinary tract 
infections; pneumonia due to Pneumocystis jirovecii; Candida species which cause 
invasive fungal infections; herpes viruses; hepatitis viruses and parasites. 
Early diagnosis and effective treatment are key elements in salvaging both the 
allograft and the patient. However, clinical manifestations and diagnosis of 
such infectious diseases are not easily identified due to the altered state of 
immune response of the RTR. Thus, apart from possessing a deep knowledge of the 
etiology and the treatment options in each case, transplant physicians should 
also always remain alert when dealing with RTRs.

Copyright © 2015 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. John G. 
Delinassios), All rights reserved.

PMID: 26130786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Bonekey Rep. 2015 Jun 24;4:716. doi: 10.1038/bonekey.2015.85. eCollection
2015.

Androgen-deprivation therapy and bone loss in prostate cancer patients: a 
clinical review.

Bienz M(1), Saad F(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Montreal , Montreal, Canada.
(2)Department of Urology, University of Montreal Hospital Center , Montreal, 
Canada.

Androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) has become a standard of care in the 
management of advanced prostate cancer or as an adjunct therapy. However, ADT is 
associated with a well-known deleterious effect on bone health, resulting in a 
decrease in bone-mass density (BMD) and increased risk for fracture. With the 
longer life expectancy of prostate cancer patients, improvement of the quality 
of life has become increasingly important. Therefore, adequate screening, 
prevention and treatment of BMD loss is paramount. Zoledronic acid and denosumab 
have shown promising results in recent studies, which has led to the Food and 
Drug Administration approval of these treatment options in various settings 
throughout the course of the disease, including the prevention of ADT-associated 
bone loss. This review focuses on the various parameters that impact BMD loss in 
men initiating ADT, on the specific effect of ADT on bone health and on various 
lifestyle modifications and treatment options such as bisphosphonates, 
osteoclast-targeted therapy and selective estrogen-receptor modulators that have 
shown promising results in recent studies.

DOI: 10.1038/bonekey.2015.85
PMCID: PMC4478875
PMID: 26131363

Conflict of interest statement: FS is a consultant to and receives research 
funding from Amgen, Novartis and Bayer. The remaining author declares no 
conflict of interest.


29. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2015 Oct 15;192(8):965-73. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.201501-0126OC.

Effects of Recipient Age and Diagnosis on Health-related Quality-of-Life Benefit 
of Lung Transplantation.

Singer LG(1)(2), Chowdhury NA(2), Faughnan ME(1)(3)(4), Granton J(1)(2), 
Keshavjee S(5)(2), Marras TK(1)(2), Tullis DE(1)(3), Waddell TK(5)(2), Tomlinson 
G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Medicine and.
(2)2 University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)3 St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; and.
(4)4 Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(5)5 Department of Thoracic Surgery, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

RATIONALE: The average age of lung transplant recipients is increasing, and the 
mix of recipient indications for transplantation is changing.
OBJECTIVES: To determine whether the health-related quality-of-life (HRQL) 
benefit of lung transplantation differs by recipient age and diagnosis.
METHODS: In this prospective cohort study, we obtained serial HRQL measurements 
in adults with advanced lung disease who subsequently underwent lung 
transplantation (2004-2012). HRQL assessments included the St. George's 
Respiratory Questionnaire, 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), EQ-5D, 
Standard Gamble, and Visual Analog Scale for current health. We used linear 
mixed effects models for associations between age or diagnosis and changes in 
HRQL with transplantation. To address potential survivorship bias, we fitted 
Markov models to the distribution of discrete post-transplant health states 
(HRQL better than pretransplant, not better, or dead) and estimated 
quality-adjusted life-years post-transplant.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: A total of 430 subjects were listed, 387 were 
transplanted, and 326 provided both pretransplant and post-transplant data. 
Transplantation conferred large improvements in all HRQL measures: St. George's 
change of -47 units (95% confidence interval, -48 to -44), 36-Item Short-Form 
Health Survey physical component summary score of 17.7 (16.5-18.9), EQ-5D of 
0.27 (0.24-0.30), Standard Gamble of 0.48 (0.44-0.51), and Visual Analog of 44 
(42-47). Age was not associated with meaningful differences in the HRQL benefits 
of transplantation. There was less HRQL benefit in interstitial lung disease 
than in cystic fibrosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Lung transplantation confers large HRQL benefits, which vary by 
recipient diagnosis, but do not differ substantially in older recipients.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.201501-0126OC
PMID: 26131729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. J Clin Ethics. 2015 Summer;26(2):121-31.

Expanding the Use of Continuous Sedation Until Death: Moving Beyond the Last 
Resort for the Terminally Ill.

LiPuma SH(1), DeMarco JP(2).

Author information:
(1)Cuyahoga Community College, Western Campus, Department of Philosophy, 11000 
Pleasant Valley Rd., Parma, OH 44103-5150 USA. Samuel.lipuma@tri-c.edu.
(2)Cleveland State University, Department of Philosophy, 2121 Euclid Ave., RT 
1932, Cleveland, Ohio 44115-2214 USA.

Comment in
    J Clin Ethics. 2015 Summer;26(2):132-42.

As currently practiced, the use of continuous sedation until death (CSD) is 
controlled by clinicians in a way that may deny patients a key choice in 
controlling their dying process. Ethical guidelines from the American Medical 
Association and the American Academy of Pain Medicine describe CSD as a "last 
resort," and a position statement from the American Academy of Hospice and 
Palliative Medicine describe it as "an intervention reserved for extreme 
situations." Accordingly, patients must progress to unremitting pain and 
suffering and reach a last-resort stage before the option to pursue CSD is 
considered. Alternatively, we present and defend a new guideline in which 
decisionally capable, terminally ill patients who have a life expectancy of less 
than six months may request CSD before being subjected to the refractory 
suffering of a treatment of "last resort."

Copyright 2015 The Journal of Clinical Ethics. All rights reserved.

PMID: 26132059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. J Clin Ethics. 2015 Summer;26(2):132-42.

Continuous Sedation Until Death Should Not Be an Option of First Resort.

McCammon SD(1), Piemonte NM(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Medical Branch, 301 University Blvd., Galveston, Texas 
77555-0521 USA. sdmccamm@utmb.edu.
(2)527 21st St. #63, Galveston, TX 77550 USA. Nicole.piemonte@gmail.com.

Comment in
    J Clin Ethics. 2015 Fall;26(3):266-9.

Comment on
    J Clin Ethics. 2015 Summer;26(2):121-31.

Samuel H. LiPuma and Joseph P. DeMarco argue for a positive right to continuous 
sedation until death (CSD) for any patient with a life expectancy less than six 
months. They reject any requirement of proportionality. Their proposed guideline 
makes CSD an option for a decisional adult patient with an appropriate terminal 
diagnosis regardless of whether suffering (physical or existential) is present. 
This guideline purports to "empower" the patient with the ability to control the 
timing and manner of her death. This extends even to the option to "opt out" of 
the awareness and experience of dying and to avoid suffering altogether, even if 
one's symptoms and suffering could be effectively treated. We respond first with 
a critique of their terminology. We then turn to some purely practical 
considerations of how this guideline might be enacted in the current atmosphere 
of American hospice and palliative care medicine. We close with a consideration 
of one philosophical concern that might ground the discussion of risks, 
benefits, and alternatives necessary for informed consent.

Copyright 2015 The Journal of Clinical Ethics. All rights reserved.

PMID: 26132060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Am Fam Physician. 2015 Jul 1;92(1):27-34.

Management of Blood Glucose with Noninsulin Therapies in Type 2 Diabetes.

George CM(1), Brujin LL(1), Will K(2), Howard-Thompson A(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, TN, USA.
(2)Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Abilene, TX, USA.

A comprehensive, collaborative approach is necessary for optimal treatment of 
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Treatment guidelines focus on nutrition, 
exercise, and pharmacologic therapies to prevent and manage complications. 
Patients with prediabetes or new-onset diabetes should receive individualized 
medical nutrition therapy, preferably from a registered dietitian, as needed to 
achieve treatment goals. Patients should be treated initially with metformin 
because it is the only medication shown in randomized controlled trials to 
reduce mortality and complications. Additional medications such as 
sulfonylureas, dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 inhibitors, thiazolidinediones, and 
glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists should be added as needed in a 
patient-centered fashion. However, there is no evidence that any of these 
medications reduce the risk of diabetes-related complications, cardiovascular 
mortality, or all-cause mortality. There is insufficient evidence on which 
combination of hypoglycemic agents best improves health outcomes before 
escalating to insulin therapy. The American Diabetes Association recommends an 
A1C goal of less than 7% for many nonpregnant adults, with the option of a less 
stringent goal of less than 8% for patients with short life expectancy, 
cardiovascular risk factors, or long-standing diabetes. Randomized trials in 
middle-aged patients with cardiovascular risk factors have shown no mortality 
benefit and in some cases increased mortality with more stringent A1C targets.

PMID: 26132124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 2015 Aug;110(5):611-7. doi: 10.1590/0074-02760150064. 
Epub 2015 Jun 30.

Effect of Leishmania spp infection on the survival, life expectancy, fecundity 
and fertility of Lutzomyia longipalpiss.l. and Lutzomyia pseudolongipalpis.

Agrela IF(1), Feliciangeli MD(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Investigaciones Biomédicas, Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, 
Universidad de Carabobo, Maracay, Aragua, VE.

We evaluated the effects of Leishmaniaspp infection on several population 
parameters of Lutzomyia longipalpis sensu lato andLutzomyia pseudolongipalpis, 
vectors of visceral leishmaniasis in Venezuela, under experimental conditions 
during the first post-feeding period. Females of both species were allowed to 
feed and engorge on a suspension of fresh washed human red blood cells in foetal 
calf serum. These blood cells were either non-infected or infected with one of 
the fourLeishmaniaspp strains and were offered through a chicken skin membrane. 
The longevity, life expectancy and the fecundity of uninfected flies were 
similar in both species, but the fertility was significantly lower in uninfected 
Lu. longipalpis females. In all cases, the infection of Lu. longipalpis and Lu. 
pseudolongipalpis by the Leishmaniastrains resulted in significant detrimental 
effects, which exerted a fitness cost expressed by reduced survival and life 
expectancy, as well as decreased fertility and fecundity compared with the 
control groups. Nevertheless, differences in these parameters were observed 
between these vector species depending on whether they were infected with the 
autochthonous Venezuelan Leishmania infantum strain (NESA) or the Brazilian 
reference strain (PP75). The experimental data obtained agree with field data on 
the natural infection of these vector species and the significance of this 
scenario is discussed.

DOI: 10.1590/0074-02760150064
PMCID: PMC4569823
PMID: 26132427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Bioethics. 2016 Mar;30(3):159-64. doi: 10.1111/bioe.12171. Epub 2015 Jul 1.

Against 'Saving Lives': Equal Concern and Differential Impact.

Chappell RY.

Bioethicists often present 'saving lives' as a goal distinct from, and competing 
with, that of extending lives by as much as possible. I argue that this usage of 
the term is misleading, and provides unwarranted rhetorical support for 
neglecting the magnitudes of the harms and benefits at stake in medical 
allocation decisions, often to the detriment of the young. Equal concern for all 
persons requires weighting equal interests equally, but not all individuals have 
an equal interest in 'life-saving' treatment.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bioe.12171
PMID: 26132886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2015 Jun 30;12(7):7444-56. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph120707444.

Comparison of the Cumulative Incidence Rates of Coal Workers' Pneumoconiosis 
between 1970 and 2013 among Four State-Owned Colliery Groups in China.

Cui K(1), Shen F(2)(3), Han B(4), Yuan J(3), Suo X(5), Qin T(6), Liu H(7), Chen 
J(8).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, China Medical University, Shenyang 110013, Liaoning, 
China. cuikai19851022@tom.com.
(2)School of Public Health, China Medical University, Shenyang 110013, Liaoning, 
China. yuanjx@heuu.edu.cn.
(3)School of Public Health, Hebei United University, Tangshan 063000, Hebei, 
China. yuanjx@heuu.edu.cn.
(4)School of Public Health, China Medical University, Shenyang 110013, Liaoning, 
China. alex0229@163.com.
(5)Occupational Disease Prevention and Treatment Hospital of Datong Coal Mine 
Group, Datong 037003, Shanxi, China. suoxsuox@sina.com.
(6)Occupational Disease Prevention and Treatment Hospital of Kailuan Colliery 
Group, Tangshan 063000, Hebei, China. qintbqin@sina.com.
(7)School of Public Health, China Medical University, Shenyang 110013, Liaoning, 
China. liuhbabc@163.com.
(8)School of Public Health, China Medical University, Shenyang 110013, Liaoning, 
China. chenjie@mail.cmu.edu.cn.

The purpose of this study was to identify differences in the incidence 
characteristics of coal workers' pneumoconiosis (CWP) based on data from four 
large state-owned colliery groups of China, by comparing the cumulative 
incidence rates of CWP. We investigated 87,904 coal workers from the Datong, 
Kailuan, Fuxin, and Tiefa Colliery Groups, who were exposed to dust for at least 
1 year. The cumulative incidence rate of CWP was calculated with the life-table 
method and stratified analysis among coal workers with different occupational 
categories during different years of first dust exposure. Our results showed the 
cumulative incidence rate of Datong was higher than that of any other colliery 
group among workers with different occupational categories during different 
years of first dust exposure. For Datong workers who started their dust exposure 
in the 1970s, the cumulative incidence rates of CWP among tunneling, mining, 
combining, and helping workers were 34.77%, 10.20%, 34.59%, and 4.91% during the 
observed time of 34 years, respectively. For those in the 1980s, the cumulative 
incidence rates were 32.29%, 13.51%, 2.98%, and 0.47%, respectively. The 
cumulative incidence rates of Fuxin and Tiefa were the lowest. In conclusion, 
the Datong colliery has the highest cumulative incidence rate of CWP among the 
four studied collieries, followed by Kailuan. The cumulative incidence rates of 
Fuxin and Tiefa were the lowest. Additional dust-proofing measures for 
decreasing dust concentrations are still necessary.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph120707444
PMCID: PMC4515667
PMID: 26133134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Int Orthop. 2016 Jan;40(1):41-9. doi: 10.1007/s00264-015-2847-y. Epub 2015
Jul  2.

Intra-operative gaps affect outcome and postoperative kinematics in vivo 
following cruciate-retaining total knee arthroplasty.

Fujimoto E(1), Sasashige Y(2), Tomita T(3), Sasaki H(2), Touten Y(2), Fujiwara 
Y(2), Ochi M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Chugoku Rousai Hospital, 1-5-1 Hirotagaya, 
Kure, Hiroshima, 737-0193, Japan. eisaku-fjm@umin.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Chugoku Rousai Hospital, 1-5-1 Hirotagaya, 
Kure, Hiroshima, 737-0193, Japan.
(3)Department of Orthopaedic Biomaterial Science, Osaka University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Suita, Osaka, Japan.
(4)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hiroshima University, Hiroshima, Japan.

PURPOSE: The following investigation evaluates the effect of intra-operative 
gaps after posterior cruciate ligament-retaining total knee arthroplasty using 
two-dimensional/three-dimensional registration and the Western Ontario and 
McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC).
METHODS: Patients were divided into two groups according to their 90°-0° 
component gap changes using a device designed by our laboratory. The wide gap 
group was defined as more than 3 mm (4.3 ± 0.7 mm), and the narrow gap group was 
defined as less than 3 mm (1.3 ± 1.3 mm).
RESULTS: Under non-WB (weight bearing) conditions, the wide flexion gap group 
(N = 10) showed a significant anterior displacement of the medial femoral 
condyle as compared with the narrow flexion gap group (N = 20). Despite no 
significant differences observed under WB conditions, both femoral condyle 
positions during flexion were significantly more posterior than during 
extension. WOMAC of the tight gap group showed worse scores for two functional 
items demanding knee flexion (bending to floor and getting on/off toilet).
CONCLUSION: The large flexion gap could influence the late rollback under non-WB 
conditions and better WOMAC functional scores in the flexion items. Three to 
four millimetre laxity at 90°-0° component gaps may be adequate and might be 
necessary to carry out daily life activities.

DOI: 10.1007/s00264-015-2847-y
PMID: 26133289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Med Phys. 2015 Jul;42(7):4043-54. doi: 10.1118/1.4922200.

Automatic segmentation method for bone and blood vessel in murine hindlimb.

Zhao F(1), Liang J(1), Chen D(1), Wang C(1), Yang X(1), Chen X(1), Cao F(2).

Author information:
(1)Engineering Research Center of Molecular and Neuro Imaging of Ministry of 
Education, School of Life Science and Technology, Xidian University, Xi'an, 
Shaanxi 710071, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Chinese People's Liberation Army General Hospital, 
Beijing 100853, China.

PURPOSE: The goal of this paper is to address three problems existing in vessel 
extraction of murine hindlimb. First, the bone can hardly be separated from 
blood vessels because the intensity of contrast enhanced blood vessels is 
similar to that of bones. Second, as an automatic blood vessel segmentation 
method, the vesselness method is sensitive to sharp boundaries, resulting in 
false positive effect in nonvascular regions. Finally, thin blood vessels are 
always broken after segmentation because of the low signal-to-noise ratio.
METHODS: The proposed automatic segmentation method for bone and blood vessel in 
this paper includes three important modules. (1) To eliminate the interference 
of bones on the segmentation of blood vessels, the authors employ split Bregman 
method to segment bones in the first place. (2) The authors propose an edge 
extension strategy to cope with the false positive effect of the vesselness 
method on the sharp boundaries of hindlimb after the removal of bones. Then, the 
authors segment the blood vessels using the vesselness method combined with 
multiscale bi-Gaussian filtering. (3) The authors reconnect the broken blood 
vessels after segmentation based on centerline and morphological dilation.
RESULTS: The bones' segmentation from the murine hindlimbs was conducted using 
the split Bregman, manual, and thresholding methods, respectively. Compared with 
the thresholding method, the split Bregman method could finely segment the bones 
from blood vessels, and the results were comparable to that of manual 
segmentation. After removing bones, the vesselness method combined with the 
bi-Gaussian filtering with and without edge extension was performed. The 
vesselness results with the edge extension strategy could effectively eliminate 
the false positive effect on sharp boundaries in nonvascular regions. Some of 
the blood vessels segmented by thresholding from the vesselness results were 
disconnected. Thus, the authors employed the vascular connection method based on 
centerline and morphological dilation to connect the broken blood vessels. 
Compared with the vascular connection utilizing the spatial-variant and 
-invariant morphological closing methods, the proposed vascular connection 
method reconnected the broken blood vessels and meanwhile maintained the 
nonbroken ones unchanged.
CONCLUSIONS: Our proposed method is suitable for the segmentation of bones and 
blood vessels in murine hindlimbs. For the segmentation of bones, the split 
Bregman method improves the distinguishability between bones and blood vessels, 
since both the intensity information and the geometrical size are exploited. For 
the segmentation of blood vessels, vesselness method with the edge extension 
strategy eliminates the false positive effect on the nonvascular sharp 
boundaries. After segmentation, the proposed vascular connection method based on 
centerline and morphological dilation can reconnect the broken blood vessels 
without affecting the nonbroken ones.

DOI: 10.1118/1.4922200
PMID: 26133605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Biol Pharm Bull. 2015;38(7):986-91. doi: 10.1248/bpb.b15-00231.

Molecular Targeted Therapy for Hepatocellular Carcinoma: Present Status and 
Future Directions.

Choi KJ(1), Baik IH, Ye SK, Lee YH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Brain Korea 21 PLUS Project for Medical 
Science, Yonsei University College of Medicine.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the sixth most common cancer and the third 
most lethal neoplasm, causing an estimated 700000 deaths annually. Currently HCC 
has only one systemic molecular targeted therapy, the multi-kinase inhibitor, 
sorafenib. The standard-of-care for advanced liver cancer is limited because 
sorafenib can expand the median life expectancy of patients for only 1 year. 
Thus there is an urgent need to develop a novel molecular targeted therapy to 
improve therapeutic outcomes for HCC. HCCs are phenotypically and genetically 
heterogeneous tumors driven by diverse molecular mechanisms. However, HCCs 
exhibit certain common traits selected through genetic and epigenetic 
alterations. The identification of common molecular alterations may provide an 
opportunity to develop more effective anticancer treatment through targeted 
therapy. Recent studies in liver cancer biology have revealed a limited number 
of molecular targets responsible for initiating and maintaining dysregulated 
cell proliferation, including vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 
(VEGFR), epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), fibroblast growth factor 
receptor (FGFR), platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR), 
c-mesenchymal-epithelial transition factor-1 (c-Met), mammalian target of 
rapamycin (mTOR) and histone deacetylases (HDACs). New treatments involving 
inhibitors targeting several of these critical pathways are in development. This 
review describes the current understanding of target pathways, ongoing clinical 
trials using HCC-targeted agents, and future directions in the treatment of HCC.

DOI: 10.1248/bpb.b15-00231
PMID: 26133708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. J Bioeth Inq. 2015 Dec;12(4):645-9. doi: 10.1007/s11673-015-9645-5. Epub 2015
 Jul 2.

The Tortoise Transformation as a Prospect for Life Extension.

Murphy TF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Education m/c 591, 808 S. Wood St., University of 
Illinois College of Medicine at Chicago, Chicago, IL, 60612-7309, USA. 
tmurphy@uic.edu.

The value of extending the human lifespan remains a key philosophical debate in 
bioethics. In building a case against the extension of the species-typical human 
life, Nicolas Agar considers the prospect of transforming human beings near the 
end of their lives into Galapagos tortoises, which would then live on decades 
longer. A central question at stake in this transformation is the persistence of 
human consciousness as a condition of the value of the transformation. Agar 
entertains the idea that consciousness could persist in some measure, but he 
thinks little is to be gained from the transformation because the experiences 
available to tortoises pale in comparison to those available to human beings. 
Moreover, he thinks persisting human consciousness and values would degrade over 
time, being remade by tortoise needs and environment. The value available in the 
transformation would not, then, make the additional years of life desirable. 
Agar's account does not, however, dispose of the tortoise transformation as a 
defensible preference. Some people might still want this kind of transformation 
for symbolic reasons, but it would probably be better that no human 
consciousness persist, since that consciousness would be inexpressible as such. 
Even so, it is not irrational to prefer various kinds of lifespan extension even 
if they involve significant modifications to human consciousness and values.

DOI: 10.1007/s11673-015-9645-5
PMID: 26133891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 2;10(7):e0131757. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131757. 
eCollection 2015.

Expression and Characterization of the RKOD DNA Polymerase in Pichia pastoris.

Wang F(1), Li S(1), Zhao H(1), Bian L(1), Chen L(1), Zhang Z(1), Zhong X(2), Ma 
L(1), Yu X(1).

Author information:
(1)Hubei Collaborative Innovation Center for Green Transformation of 
Bio-resources, Hubei Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, College of Life 
Sciences, Hubei University, Wuhan, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Bioengineering, Zhixing College of HuBei University, Wuhan, 
People's Republic of China.

The present study assessed high-level expression of the KOD DNA polymerase in 
Pichia pastoris. Thermococcus kodakaraensis KOD1 is a DNA polymerase that is 
widely used in PCR. The DNA coding sequence of KOD was optimized based on the 
codon usage bias of P. pastoris and synthesized by overlapping PCR, and the 
nonspecific DNA-binding protein Sso7d from the crenarchaeon Sulfolobus 
solfataricus was fused to the C-terminus of KOD. The resulting novel gene was 
cloned into a pHBM905A vector and introduced into P. pastoris GS115 for 
secretory expression. The yield of the target protein reached approximately 250 
mg/l after a 6-d induction with 1% (v/v) methanol in shake flasks. This yield is 
much higher than those of other DNA polymerases expressed heterologously in 
Escherichia coli. The recombinant enzyme was purified, and its enzymatic 
features were studied. Its specific activity was 19,384 U/mg. The recombinant 
KOD expressed in P. pastoris exhibited excellent thermostability, extension rate 
and fidelity. Thus, this report provides a simple, efficient and economic 
approach to realize the production of a high-performance thermostable DNA 
polymerase on a large scale. This is the first report of the expression in yeast 
of a DNA polymerase for use in PCR.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131757
PMCID: PMC4489709
PMID: 26134129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


41. Health Technol Assess. 2015 Jun;19(47):1-134. doi: 10.3310/hta19470.

Erlotinib and gefitinib for treating non-small cell lung cancer that has 
progressed following prior chemotherapy (review of NICE technology appraisals 
162 and 175): a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Greenhalgh J(1), Bagust A(1), Boland A(1), Dwan K(1), Beale S(1), Hockenhull 
J(1), Proudlove C(2), Dundar Y(1), Richardson M(1), Dickson R(1), Mullard A(3), 
Marshall E(3).

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Reviews and Implementation Group, University of Liverpool, 
Liverpool, UK.
(2)North West Medicines Information Centre, Pharmacy Practice Unit, Liverpool, 
UK.
(3)The Clatterbridge Centre NHS Foundation Trust, Liverpool, UK.

BACKGROUND: Lung cancer is the second most diagnosed cancer in the UK. Over 70% 
of lung cancers are non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLCs). Patients with stage 
III or IV NSCLC may be offered treatment to improve survival, disease control 
and quality of life. One-third of these patients receive further treatment 
following disease progression; these treatments are the focus of this systematic 
review.
OBJECTIVES: To appraise the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
erlotinib [Tarceva(®), Roche (UK) Ltd] and gefitinib (IRESSA(®), AstraZeneca) 
compared with each other, docetaxel or best supportive care (BSC) for the 
treatment of NSCLC after disease progression following prior chemotherapy. The 
effectiveness of treatment with gefitinib was considered only for patients with 
epidermal growth factor mutation-positive (EGFR M+) disease.
DATA SOURCES: Four electronic databases (EMBASE, MEDLINE, The Cochrane Library, 
PubMed) were searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and economic 
evaluations. Manufacturers' evidence submissions to the National Institute for 
Health and Care Excellence were also considered.
REVIEW METHODS: Outcomes for three distinct patient groups based on EGFR 
mutation status [EGFR M+, epidermal growth factor mutation negative (EGFR M-) 
and epidermal growth factor mutation status unknown (EGFR unknown)] were 
considered. Heterogeneity of the data precluded statistical analysis. A de novo 
economic model was developed to compare treatments (incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained).
RESULTS: Twelve trials were included in the review. The use of gefitinib was 
compared with chemotherapy (n = 6) or BSC (n = 1), and the use of erlotinib was 
compared with chemotherapy (n = 3) or BSC (n = 1). One trial compared the use of 
gefitinib with the use of erlotinib. No trials included solely EGFR M+ patients; 
all data were derived from retrospective subgroup analyses from six RCTs [Kim 
ST, Uhm JE, Lee J, Sun JM, Sohn I, Kim SW, et al. Randomized phase II study of 
