Karl-von-Frisch-Strasse 8, 35043 Marburg, Germany; Department of Ecology, 
Faculty of Biology, Philipps-University Marburg, Karl-von-Frisch-Strasse 8, 
35043 Marburg, Germany; Institute of Experimental Ecology, University of Ulm, 
Albert-Einstein-Allee 11, 89069 Ulm, Germany.
(2)Institute of Experimental Ecology, University of Ulm, Albert-Einstein-Allee 
11, 89069 Ulm, Germany; Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, P.O. Box 
0843-03092, Balboa, Panamá
(3)Institute of Experimental Ecology, University of Ulm, Albert-Einstein-Allee 
11, 89069 Ulm, Germany.
(4)Institute of Molecular Plant Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Mayfield Rd, 
Edinburgh EH9 3JH, United Kingdom.
(5)Conservation Biology, Faculty of Biology, Philipps-University Marburg, 
Karl-von-Frisch-Strasse 8, 35043 Marburg, Germany.
(6)Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, P.O. Box 0843-03092, Balboa, Panamá
(7)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Michigan, 830 
North University, 2019 Kraus Natural Science Building, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1048 
United States of America.

Wind-borne pollinating wasps (Agaonidae) can transport fig (Ficus sp., Moraceae) 
pollen over enormous distances (> 100 km). Because of their extensive breeding 
areas, Neotropical figs are expected to exhibit weak patterns of genetic 
structure at local and regional scales. We evaluated genetic structure at the 
regional to continental scale (Panama, Costa Rica, and Peru) for the 
free-standing fig species Ficus insipida. Genetic differentiation was detected 
only at distances > 300 km (Jost´s Dest = 0.68 ± 0.07 & FST = 0.30 ± 0.03 
between Mesoamerican and Amazonian sites) and evidence for phylogeographic 
structure (RST>>permuted RST) was only significant in comparisons between 
Central and South America. Further, we assessed local scale spatial genetic 
structure (SGS, d ≤ 8 km) in Panama and developed an agent-based model 
parameterized with data from F. insipida to estimate minimum pollination 
distances, which determine the contribution of pollen dispersal on SGS. The 
local scale data for F. insipida was compared to SGS data collected for an 
additional free-standing fig, F. yoponensis (subgenus Pharmacosycea), and two 
species of strangler figs, F. citrifolia and F. obtusifolia (subgenus Urostigma) 
sampled in Panama. All four species displayed significant SGS (mean Sp = 0.014 ± 
0.012). Model simulations indicated that most pollination events likely occur at 
distances > > 1 km, largely ruling out spatially limited pollen dispersal as the 
determinant of SGS in F. insipida and, by extension, the other fig species. Our 
results are consistent with the view that Ficus develops fine-scale SGS 
primarily as a result of localized seed dispersal and/or clumped seedling 
establishment despite extensive long-distance pollen dispersal. We discuss 
several ecological and life history factors that could have species- or 
subgenus-specific impacts on the genetic structure of Neotropical figs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133581
PMCID: PMC4520606
PMID: 26226482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


303. Patol Fiziol Eksp Ter. 2015 Jan-Mar;59(1):65-71.

[Genetic features of nitric oxide generating systems predetermine the body's 
resistance to the development of carcinoma].

[Article in Russian]

Kalish SV, Budanova OP, Lyamina SV, Malyshev IY.

Predisposition to tumors is often determined by how effectively the genotype of 
an individual forms an immune defense. An important factor of such protection is 
macrophage NO. We assumed that the body's vulnerability to the development of 
tumors may depend from the characteristics of the NO generating systems. The 
content of NO in the tumor changed by ITU, inhibitor of iNOS, c-PTIO, traps and 
SNP, donor NO. Production of macrophage NO were evaluated by nitrites in the 
culture media. iNOS was assessed using the Western blot analysis. Phenotype of 
macrophages was assessed using cytometry for CD labels. Life span of mice 
C57BL/6N with Ehrlich tumor was 25% greater than that of the C57BL/6J. Reducing 
the content of NO in the tumor reduced life expectancy of high-resistance to 
tumor subline C57BL/6N at 23%. Increase of NO increased life expectancy of 
low-resistance subline C57BL/6J at 26%. Macrophages of C57BL/6N were 1.5 times 
higher contents of iNOS and NO production, as compared with macrophages of 
C57BL/6J. CD phenotype markers determined the macrophage phenotype C57BL/6N as 
M1 and C57BL/6J mice macrophage phenotype as M2. Thus, the body's vulnerability 
to the development of tumors may depend from the characteristics of the NO 
generating systems. C57BL/6J, unlike C57BL/6N does not synthesize NNT 
(nicotinamide nucleotide transhydrogenase) and have differences in the single 
nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). The important role of NO in the resistance to 
Carcinoma, NNT and SNP deserve attention in the development of new methods of 
antitumor therapy.

PMID: 26226691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Zhongguo Zhong Yao Za Zhi. 2015 Mar;40(6):1061-5.

[Pollen viability, stigma receptivity and fruiting characteristics of botanical 
origin of Jinxianlian].

[Article in Chinese]

Shao QS, Wang Y, Hu RH, Zhang WS, Li MY.

The viability and life span of pollen were evaluated by TTC (2,3,5-triphenyl 
tetrazlium chloride) and the peroxidase solution, the stigma receptivity were 
estimated by benzidine-H2O2 method and the fruiting characteristics were 
investigated. The results showed that (1) Anoectochilus roxburghii and A. 
formosanus appeared the same up-and-down trend of the pollen viability, 
increased and then decreased. The storage temperature and storage time had 
significant impact on the pollen viability. With the extension of storage time, 
the pollen activity decreased. 4 degrees C refrigerator storage may be extended 
the pollen vitality. (2) The stigma had receptivity in 1st day and reached the 
highest level in the 4th day after blooming. A. roxburghii lost receptivity in 
the 8th day while A. formosanus lost receptivity in the 10th day after blooming. 
(3) The different pollination had significant impact on seed setting rate. The 
seed setting rate of artificial cross-pollination was higher than that of the 
artificial self-pollination. Collecting pollen in the 3rd day and carrying out 
artificial cross-pollination in the 4th day after blooming can significantly 
improve seed setting rate. The results provided technical assurance for A. 
roxburghii and A. formosanus breeding of new varieties and seed breeding.

PMID: 26226745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Gerontology. 2016;62(2):182-90. doi: 10.1159/000435853. Epub 2015 Jul 23.

In Search of 'Omics'-Based Biomarkers to Predict Risk of Frailty and Its 
Consequences in Older Individuals: The FRAILOMIC Initiative.

Erusalimsky JD(1), Grillari J, Grune T, Jansen-Duerr P, Lippi G, Sinclair AJ, 
Tegnér J, Viña J, Durrance-Bagale A, Miñambres R, Viegas M, Rodríguez-Mañas L; 
FRAILOMIC Consortium.

Author information:
(1)Cardiff School of Health Sciences, Cardiff Metropolitan University, Cardiff, 
UK.

An increase in the number of older people experiencing disability and dependence 
is a critical aspect of the demographic change that will emerge within Europe 
due to the rise in life expectancy. In this scenario, prevention of these 
conditions is crucial for the well-being of older citizens and for the 
sustainability of our healthcare systems. Thus, the diagnosis and management of 
conditions like frailty, which identifies the people at the highest risk for 
developing those adverse outcomes, is of critical relevance. Currently, 
assessment of frailty relies primarily on measuring functional parameters, which 
have limited clinical utility. In this viewpoint article, we describe the 
FRAILOMIC Initiative, an international, large-scale, multi-endpoint, community- 
and clinic-based research study funded by the European Commission. The aim of 
the study is to develop validated measures, comprising both classic and 
'omics-based' laboratory biomarkers, which can predict the risk of frailty, 
improve the accuracy of its diagnosis in clinical practice and provide a 
prognostic forecast on the evolution from frailty to disability. The initiative 
includes eight established cohorts of older adults, encompassing >75,000 
subjects, most of whom (∼70%) are aged >65 years. Data on function, nutritional 
status and exercise habits have been collected, and cardiovascular health has 
been evaluated at baseline. Subjects will be stratified as 'non-frail' or 
'frail' using Fried's definition, all adverse outcomes of interest will be 
recorded and differentially expressed biomarkers associated with the risk of 
frailty will be identified. Genomic, proteomic and transcriptomic investigations 
will be carried out using array-based systems. As circulating microRNAs in 
plasma have been identified in the context of senescence, ageing and 
age-associated diseases, a miRNome-wide analysis will also be undertaken to 
identify a miRNA-based signature of frailty. Blood concentrations of secreted 
proteins known to be upregulated significantly in senescent endothelial cells 
and other hypothesis-driven biomarkers will be measured using ELISAs. The 
FRAILOMIC Initiative aims to issue a series of interim scientific reports as key 
results emerge. Ultimately, it is hoped that this study will contribute to the 
development of new clinical tools, which may help individuals to enjoy an old 
age that is healthier and free from disability.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000435853
PMID: 26227153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Sci Rep. 2015 Jul 31;5:12749. doi: 10.1038/srep12749.

Generation-based life table analysis reveals manifold effects of inbreeding on 
the population fitness in Plutella xylostella.

Peng L(1), Zou M(1), Ren N(1), Xie M(1), Vasseur L(2), Yang Y(1), He W(1), Yang 
G(1), Gurr GM(3), Hou Y(4), You S(5), You M(1).

Author information:
(1)1] Institute of Applied Ecology, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, 
Fuzhou 350002, China [2] Fujian-Taiwan Joint Centre for Ecological Control of 
Crop Pests, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou 350002, China [3] 
Key Laboratory of Integrated Pest Management for Fujian-Taiwan Crops, Ministry 
of Agriculture, Fuzhou 350002, China.
(2)1] Institute of Applied Ecology, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, 
Fuzhou 350002, China [2] Fujian-Taiwan Joint Centre for Ecological Control of 
Crop Pests, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou 350002, China [3] 
Key Laboratory of Integrated Pest Management for Fujian-Taiwan Crops, Ministry 
of Agriculture, Fuzhou 350002, China [4] Department of Biological Sciences, 
Brock University, St. Catharines, Ontario L2S 3A1, Canada.
(3)1] Institute of Applied Ecology, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, 
Fuzhou 350002, China [2] Fujian-Taiwan Joint Centre for Ecological Control of 
Crop Pests, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou 350002, China [3] 
Key Laboratory of Integrated Pest Management for Fujian-Taiwan Crops, Ministry 
of Agriculture, Fuzhou 350002, China [4] Graham Centre, Charles Sturt 
University, Orange, New South Wales 2800, Australia.
(4)1] Fujian-Taiwan Joint Centre for Ecological Control of Crop Pests, Fujian 
Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou 350002, China [2] Key Laboratory of 
Integrated Pest Management for Fujian-Taiwan Crops, Ministry of Agriculture, 
Fuzhou 350002, China.
(5)Department of Botany, University of British Columbia, 3529-6270 University 
Blvd. Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada.

Understanding how inbreeding affects fitness is biologically important for 
conservation and pest management. Despite being a worldwide pest of many 
economically important cruciferous crops, the influence of inbreeding on 
diamondback moth, Plutella xylostella (L.), populations is currently unknown. 
Using age-stage-specific life tables, we quantified the inbreeding effects on 
fitness-related traits and demographic parameters of P. xylostella. Egg hatching 
rate, survival and fecundity of the inbred line significantly declined compared 
to those of the outbred line over time. The inbred P. xylostella line showed 
significantly lower intrinsic rate of increase (r), net reproduction rate (R0), 
and finite increase rate (λ), and increasing generation time (T). Inbreeding 
effects vary with developmental stages and the fitness-related traits can be 
profoundly affected by the duration of inbreeding. Our work provides a 
foundation for further studies on molecular and genetic bases of the inbreeding 
depression for P. xylostella.

DOI: 10.1038/srep12749
PMCID: PMC4521199
PMID: 26227337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Allergy. 2016 Mar;71(3):412-5. doi: 10.1111/all.12713. Epub 2015 Dec 24.

Sublingual allergen immunotherapy in HIV-positive patients.

Iemoli E(1), Borgonovo L(1), Fusi A(1), Magni C(1), Ricci ED(1), Rizzardini 
G(1), Piconi S(1).

Author information:
(1)Allergy and Clinical Immunology Unit and 1st Division of Infectious Diseases, 
L. Sacco Hospital, Milan, Italy.

HIV infection is a relative contraindication for allergic immunotherapy (AIT). 
In the last decade, highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has improved 
the immune function and life expectancy in HIV-infected patients whose 
respiratory allergic incidence is similar to the general population. We 
evaluated the safety and clinical effectiveness of sublingual immunotherapy in a 
group of grass pollen-allergic HAART-treated HIV-positive patients. Thirteen 
patients received sublingual immunotherapy (SLIT) tablet (Oralair, 
Stallergenes©) and symptomatic therapy and were compared with nine patients 
receiving symptomatic therapy alone. Clinical benefits were evaluated by the 
analysis of total combined score (TCS), sum of symptom-medication score, and a 
quality of life (QoL) questionnaire. HIV viral load and peripheral TCD4 
lymphocytes were analyzed at the beginning and at the end of the study. Clinical 
efficacy data showed a significant improvement in SLIT-treated patients compared 
to controls (TCS: P = 0.0001; QoL: P = 0.03). We did not observe any significant 
alteration of TCD4 cell counts and viral load (VL) in both groups. Our 
preliminary data showed that SLIT therapy in viro-immunological controlled HAART 
treated HIV positive patients was efficacious, safe and well tolerated.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/all.12713
PMID: 26228482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Recenti Prog Med. 2015 Aug;106(8):351-3. doi: 10.1701/1960.21294.

[The value of time in cancer patients].

[Article in Italian]

Barone C.

In medicine time is one of the main dimensions used in order to assess the 
efficacy of a cure. In oncology we measure either the advantage obtained with a 
treatment or the clinical course of a cancer as time intervals or survival 
benefit. In the last years we can describe life expectancy in many solid tumors 
following therapy, not only in terms of median survival, but also in terms of 
3-5 years survival. Additional life time, that given by novel drugs, is now a 
real experience in some solid tumors allowing a reflection on its value and 
meaning in the personal perception of patients as well in an absolute 
perspective. The concept of time deformation in physics suggests a metaphorical 
similarity with rediscovery of the authentic sense of life in an increasing 
number of patients affected by cancer who experience a significant life 
prolongation.

DOI: 10.1701/1960.21294
PMID: 26228856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Indian J Orthop. 2015 Jul-Aug;49(4):436-41. doi: 10.4103/0019-5413.159647.

Outcome of intertrochanteric fractures treated by intramedullary nail with two 
integrated lag screws: A study in Asian population.

Kim JW(1), Kim TY(2), Ha YC(3), Lee YK(4), Koo KH(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Gangnam Himchan Hospital, Seoul, South 
Korea.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hallym University Sacred Heart Hospital, 
Anyang, South Korea.
(3)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Chung-Ang University, Seoul, South Korea.
(4)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Seoul National University Bundang 
Hospital, Seongnam, South Korea.

BACKGROUND: The incidence of intertrochanteric fracture has increased during 
recent years as life expectancy has also increased. Currently, orthopedic 
surgeons use various fixation methods for intertrochanteric fractures like, 
intramedullary (IM) nailing or dynamic hip screws and plates. The intramedullary 
(IM) nail with two integrated lag screws has been used recently in 
intertrochanteric fractures to overcome Z-affect phenomenon. However, no study 
is available in an Asian population. This prospective study was undertaken to 
document the clinical and radiologic outcomes of the IM nail with two integrated 
lag screws and its limitations in Asian patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Osteosynthesis was performed using InterTAN nail in 100 
patients with an intertrochanteric fractures followed up for at least 1 year 
after surgery. We evaluated the recovery rates to prefracture status, time to 
bony union and the incidence of complications.
RESULTS: Seventy four patients were available for at least 1 year followup 
examinations. Forty-five patients (60.8%) recovered prefracture status. Mean 
time to bony union was 18.3 ± 8.6 weeks. Intraoperative technical problems 
related to an unavoidable superior positioning of the lag screw occurred in five 
cases. Postoperative complications requiring reoperation occurred in three 
patients; two cases of varus collapse with cut out and one case of 
periprosthetic fracture.
CONCLUSIONS: The IM nail with two integrated lag screws showed favorable 
outcomes in Asian patients with an intertrochanteric fracture even though 
several complications that were not previously reported with this nail were 
found. The proper selection of patients and careful insertion of two lag screws 
should be mandatory in Asian patients.

DOI: 10.4103/0019-5413.159647
PMCID: PMC4510798
PMID: 26229165

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None.


310. Indian J Orthop. 2015 Jul-Aug;49(4):458-64. doi: 10.4103/0019-5413.159673.

Outcome of percutaneous balloon kyphoplasty in vertebral compression fractures.

Saxena BP(1), Shah BV(1), Joshi SP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The Spine Clinic, Shalby Hospitals, 
Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India.

BACKGROUND: Incidence of vertebral compression fractures (VCFs) is increasing 
due to increase in human life expectancy and prevalence of osteoporosis. 
Vertebroplasty had been traditional treatment for pain, but it neither attempts 
to restore vertebral body height nor eliminates spinal deformity and is 
associated with a high rate of cement leakage. Balloon kyphoplasty involves 
introduction of inflatable balloon into the fractured body of vertebra for 
elevation of the end-plates prior to fixation of the fracture with bone cement. 
This study evaluates short term functional and radiological outcomes of balloon 
kyphoplasty. The secondary aim is to explore short-term complications of the 
procedure.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective study of 199 kyphoplasty procedures in 
135 patients from March 2009 to March 2012 were evaluated with short form-36 
(SF-36) score, visual analogue scale (VAS), detailed neurological and 
radiological evaluations. The mean followup was 18 months (range 12-20 months). 
Statistical analysis including paired sample t-test was done with statistical 
package for social sciences.
RESULTS: Statistically significant improvements in SF-36 (from 34.29 to 48.53, 
an improvement of 14.24, standard deviation (SD) - 20.08 P < 0.0001), VAS (drop 
of 4.49, from 6.74 to 2.24, SD - 1.44, P < 0.0001), percentage restoration of 
lost vertebral height (from 30.62% to 16.19%, improvement of 14.43%, SD - 15.37, 
P < 0.0001) and kyphotic angle correction (from 17.41° to 10.59°, improvement of 
6.82, SD - 7.26°, P < 0.0001) were noted postoperatively. Six patients had 
cement embolism, 65 had cement leak and three had adjacent level fracture which 
required repeat kyphoplasty later. One patient with history of ischemic heart 
disease had cardiac arrest during the procedure. No patients had neurological 
deterioration in the followup period.
CONCLUSIONS: Kyphoplasty is a safe and effective treatment for VCFs. It improves 
physical function, reduces pain and corrects kyphotic deformity.

DOI: 10.4103/0019-5413.159673
PMCID: PMC4510802
PMID: 26229169

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None.


311. Bull World Health Organ. 2015 May 1;93(5):329-338C. doi:
10.2471/BLT.14.142141.  Epub 2015 Feb 24.

Estimates of alcohol-related oesophageal cancer burden in Japan: systematic 
review and meta-analyses.

Roerecke M(1), Shield KD(1), Higuchi S(2), Yoshimura A(2), Larsen E(1), Rehm 
MX(3), Rehm J(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH), Social and Epidemiological 
Research Department, Room T523, 33 Russell Street, Toronto, Ontario, M5S 2S1, 
Canada .
(2)National Hospital Organization, Kurihama Medical and Addiction Center, 
Yokosuka, Japan .
(3)Ryerson University, Toronto, Canada .

OBJECTIVE: To refine estimates of the burden of alcohol-related oesophageal 
cancer in Japan.
METHODS: We searched PubMed for published reviews and original studies on 
alcohol intake, aldehyde dehydrogenase polymorphisms, and risk for oesophageal 
cancer in Japan, published before 2014. We conducted random-effects 
meta-analyses, including subgroup analyses by aldehyde dehydrogenase variants. 
We estimated deaths and loss of disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) from 
oesophageal cancer using exposure distributions for alcohol based on age, sex 
and relative risks per unit of exposure.
FINDINGS: We identified 14 relevant studies. Three cohort studies and four 
case-control studies had dose-response data. Evidence from cohort studies showed 
that people who consumed the equivalent of 100 g/day of pure alcohol had an 
11.71 fold, (95% confidence interval, CI: 2.67-51.32) risk of oesophageal cancer 
compared to those who never consumed alcohol. Evidence from case-control studies 
showed that the increase in risk was 33.11 fold (95% CI: 8.15-134.43) in the 
population at large. The difference by study design is explained by the 159 fold 
(95% CI: 27.2-938.2) risk among those with an inactive aldehyde dehydrogenase 
enzyme variant. Applying these dose-response estimates to the national profile 
of alcohol intake yielded 5279 oesophageal cancer deaths and 102,988 DALYs lost 
- almost double the estimates produced by the most recent global burden of 
disease exercise.
CONCLUSION: Use of global dose-response data results in an underestimate of the 
burden of disease from oesophageal cancer in Japan. Where possible, national 
burden of disease studies should use results from the population concerned.

Publisher: OBJECTIF: Affiner les estimations de la charge du cancer de 
l'œsophage lié à l'alcool au Japon.
MÉTHODES: Nous avons effectué une recherche bibliographique dans PubMed pour 
trouver les revues publiées et les études originales sur la consommation 
d'alcool, les polymorphismes de l'aldéhyde déshydrogénase et le risque de 
développement d'un cancer de l'œsophage au Japon, publiées avant 2014. Nous 
avons réalisé des méta-analyses à effet aléatoire, y compris des analyses de 
sous-groupe par variant de l'aldéhyde déshydrogénase. Nous avons estimé les 
décès et l'espérance de vie corrigée de l'incapacité (EVCI) dus au cancer de 
l'œsophage en utilisant les distributions de l'exposition à l'alcool en fonction 
de l'âge, du sexe et des risques relatifs par unité d'exposition.
RÉSULTATS: Nous avons identifié 14 études pertinentes. Trois études de cohortes 
et quatre études de cas-témoins présentaient des données de dose-réponse. Les 
données issues des études de cohortes montrent que les personnes ayant consommé 
l'équivalent de 100 g/jour d'alcool pur avaient un risque 11,71 fois supérieur 
(intervalle de confiance à 95% [IC]: 2,67–51,32) de développer un cancer de 
l'œsophage par rapport aux personnes qui n'ont jamais consommé d'alcool. Les 
données obtenues à partir des études de cas-témoins ont montré que 
l'augmentation du risque était 33,11 fois supérieure (IC à 95%: 8,15–134,43) par 
rapport à la population en général. La différence par la conception de l'étude 
est expliquée par un risque 159 fois supérieur (IC à 95%: 27,2–938,2) parmi les 
personnes présentant un variant enzymatique inactif de l'aldéhyde 
déshydrogénase. En appliquant ces estimations de dose-réponse au profil national 
de consommation d'alcool, nous sommes arrivés à 5279 décès et 102 988 EVCI dus 
au cancer de l'œsophage – soit presque le double des estimations produites par 
la plus récente charge globale de la maladie.
CONCLUSION: L'utilisation de données globales de dose-réponse se traduit par une 
sous-estimation de la charge de morbidité pour le cancer de l'œsophage au Japon. 
Dans la mesure du possible, la charge nationale des études portant sur les 
maladies devrait utiliser les résultats obtenus sur la population concernée.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Refinar las estimaciones de la carga del cáncer esofágico 
relacionado con el consumo de alcohol en Japón.
MÉTODOS: Se buscaron revisiones y estudios originales publicados antes de 2014 
sobre la ingesta de alcohol, polimorfismos del aldehído deshidrogenasa y el 
riesgo de cáncer de esófago en Japón en la base de datos PubMed. Se efectuaron 
metaanálisis de efectos aleatorios, que incluían análisis de subgrupos de 
variantes del aldehído deshidrogenasa y se estimaron las muertes y la pérdida de 
años de vida ajustados por discapacidad (AVAD) por cáncer de esófago mediante 
distribuciones de exposición para el alcohol basadas en la edad, el sexo y los 
riesgos relativos por unidad de exposición.
RESULTADOS: Se identificaron 14 estudios pertinentes. Tres estudios de cohorte y 
cuatro estudios de casos y controles contenían datos sobre la respuesta en 
relación con la dosis. Las pruebas de los estudios de cohorte demostraron que el 
riesgo de cáncer esofágico de que quienes consumen el equivalente a 100 g/día de 
alcohol puro era 11,71 veces mayor (intervalo de confianza del 95 % [IC]: 
2,67–51,32) en comparación con aquellos que nunca consumieron alcohol. Las 
pruebas de los estudios de casos y controles demostraron que el riesgo aumentó 
33,11 veces (IC del 95 %: 8,15–134,43) en la población en general. La diferencia 
por el diseño del estudio se explica por el aumento en 159 veces (IC del 95 %: 
27,2–938,2) del riesgo entre las personas con una variante inactiva de la enzima 
aldehído deshidrogenasa. La aplicación de estas estimaciones de la respuesta en 
relación con la dosis al perfil nacional del consumo de alcohol dio lugar a la 
notificación de 5279 muertes de cáncer esofágico y 102 988 AVAD perdidos, lo 
equivale a casi el doble de las estimaciones producidas por la carga mundial más 
reciente de la actividad de la enfermedad.
CONCLUSIÓN: El uso de datos mundiales sobre la respuesta en relación con la 
dosis da lugar a una subestimación de la carga de enfermedad de cáncer esofágico 
en Japón. Siempre que sea posible, los estudios sobre la carga nacional de la 
enfermedad deben utilizar los resultados de la población afectada.

Publisher: الغرض: تنقيح تقديرات عبء سرطان المريء ذي الصلة بتعاطي الكحول في 
اليابان.
الطريقة: أجرينا بحثاً في قاعدة بيانات PubMed عن الاستعراضات المنشورة والدراسات 
الأصلية حول تعاطي الكحول وتعدد أشكال نازعة هيدروجين الألدهيد واختطار سرطان 
المريء في اليابان، التي تم نشرها قبل عام 2014. وأجرينا تحليلات وصفية للتأثيرات 
العشوائية، بما في ذلك تحليلات الفئات الفرعية حسب متغيرات نازعة هيدروجين 
الألدهيد. وقمنا بتقدير حالات الوفاة وفقدان سنوات العمر المصححة باحتساب مدد العجز 
جراء الإصابة بسرطان المريء باستخدام توزيعات التعرض للكحول استناداً إلى السن 
والجنس والمخاطر النسبية لكل وحدة تعرض.
النتائج: قمنا بتحديد 14 دراسة ذات صلة. واشتملت ثلاث دراسات أترابية وأربع دراسات 
لحالات إفرادية مقترنة بحالات ضابطة على بيانات عن علاقة الجرعة بالاستجابة. وأظهرت 
البيّنات المستمدة من الدراسات الأترابية تعرض الأشخاص الذين تعاطوا ما يعادل 100 
غم/يوم من الكحول الصافي إلى خطورة الإصابة بسرطان المريء بمقدار 11.71 مرة (فاصل 
الثقة 95 %؛ فاصل الثقة: من 2.67 إلى 51.32) مقارنة بالذين لم يتعاطوا الكحول 
إطلاقاً. وأظهرت البيّنات المستمدة من دراسات الحالات الإفرادية المقترنة بحالات 
ضابطة أن الزيادة في الخطورة بلغت 33.11 مرة (فاصل الثقة 95 %؛ فاصل الثقة: من 8.15 
إلى 134.43) في عامة السكان. ويتضح الفرق حسب تصميم الدراسة في الخطورة التي بلغت 
159 مرة (فاصل الثقة 95 %؛ فاصل الثقة: من 27.2 إلى 938.2) بين الأشخاص الذين لديهم 
متغير غير فعال لإنزيم نازعة هيدروجين الألدهيد. ونتج عن تطبيق هذه التقديرات 
لعلاقة الجرعة بالاستجابة على المرتسم الوطني لتعاطي الكحول 5279 حالة وفاة بسرطان 
المريء وفقدان 102988 من سنوات العمر المصححة باحتساب مدد العجز - وهو تقريباً ضعف 
التقديرات الناتجة عن العبء العالمي الأحدث لممارسة المرض.
الاستنتاج: ينتج عن استخدام بيانات علاقة الجرعة بالاستجابة على الصعيد العالمي 
التقليل من تقدير عبء المرض الناجم عن سرطان المريء في اليابان. وينبغي أن تستخدم 
دراسات عبء المرض على الصعيد الوطني النتائج المستمدة من السكان المعنيين حسبما 
أمكن.

Publisher: 目的: 得到更精确的日本酒精性食道癌负担估算值。.
方法: 
我们搜索PubMed数据库，查找2014年前发表的关于日本酒精摄入、乙醛脱氢酶多态性以及食道癌风险的综述与原始研究。我们还进行了随机影响综合分析，包括用乙醛脱氧酶变体进行的亚组分析。根据酒精影响类别的年龄、性别及相对风险，我们使用酒精影响分布估算了食道癌死亡率与残疾调整生命年（DALY）的损失。.
结果: 
我们找到了14项相关研究。三项队列研究和四项病例对照研究提供剂量反应的数据。队列研究的证据表明，与从不饮酒的人群相比较，这些每天消耗相当于100克纯酒精的人群患食道癌的风险是前者的11.71倍（95%置信区间，CI：2.67-51.32）。病例对照研究的证据表明，从整体人口方面看，患食道癌的风险增加了33.11倍（95%置信区间，CI：8.15-134.43）。研究设计发现的差异显示，携带不活跃乙醛脱氢酶变体的人患食道癌的风险是159倍（95%，CI：27.2-938.2）。把这些剂量反应数值应用到全国酒精摄入数据中，我们得出食道癌死亡人数是5279人，残疾调整生命年损失是102988年，这些数据几乎是最新全球疾病负担研究数据的两倍。.
结论: 使用全球剂量反应数据导致对日本食道癌疾病负担的低估。在可能的情况下，全国疾病负担研究应该使用相关人群的研究结果。.

Publisher: ЦЕЛЬ: Выполнить точную оценку бремени рака пищевода, обусловленного 
употреблением алкоголя, в Японии.
МЕТОДЫ: Мы изучили содержащуюся в базе данных PubMed информацию по 
опубликованным до 2014 г. обзорам и оригинальным исследованиям, касающимся 
употребления алкоголя, полиморфизмов альдегиддегидрогеназы и риска развития рака 
пищевода в Японии. Мы провели метаанализ случайных эффектов, включая анализы в 
подгруппах по вариантам альдегиддегидрогеназы. Мы оценили количество смертей и 
утраченных лет жизни с поправкой на инвалидность (ГЖПИ) в результате рака 
пищевода, используя распределение подвергающихся воздействию алкоголя лиц по 
возрасту, полу и относительному риску на единицу воздействия.
РЕЗУЛЬТАТЫ: Мы выявили 14 исследований, имеющих отношение к вопросу. Для трех 
исследований в когортах и четырех исследований методом «случай-контроль» были 
представлены данные о зависимости между дозой и эффектом. Данные когортных 
исследований свидетельствуют о том, что у лиц, потреблявших алкоголь в дозе, 
эквивалентной 100 г чистого алкоголя в сутки, риск развития рака пищевода 
возрастает в 11,71 раз (доверительный интервал, ДИ 95%: 2,67–51,32) по сравнению 
с лицами, никогда не употреблявшими алкоголь. Данные исследований методом 
«случай-контроль» свидетельствуют о том, что кратность повышенного риска 
развития заболевания во всей популяции составляет 33,11 (ДИ 95%: 8,15–134,43). 
Разница в плане исследования объясняется кратностью риска 159 (ДИ 95%: 
27,2–938,2) для лиц с неактивным вариантом фермента альдегиддегидрогеназы. 
Применение таких оценок данных о зависимости между дозой и эффектом к 
национальному профилю потребления алкоголя позволило получить 5 279 смертей от 
рака пищевода и 102 988 утраченных ГЖПИ, что почти в два раза превышает 
результаты последних международных оценок бремени данной болезни.
ВЫВОД: Использование данных о зависимости между дозой и эффектом, полученных по 
результатам международных оценок, приводит к недооценке бремени рака пищевода в 
Японии. В ситуациях, когда это возможно, для исследований по расчету бремени 
заболевания на уровне страны следует использовать результаты, касающиеся 
конкретной популяции.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.14.142141
PMCID: PMC4431512
PMID: 26229204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. J Clin Trials. 2014;4:191. doi: 10.4172/2167-0870.1000191.

Evaluation of a Mammography Screening Decision Aid for Women Aged 75 and Older: 
Protocol for a Cluster-randomized Controlled Trial.

Schonberg MA(1), Kistler CE(2), Nekhlyudov L(3), Fagerlin A(4), Davis RB(1), Wee 
CC(1), Marcantonio ER(1), Lewis CL(5), Stanley WA(1), Crutchfield TM(2), Hamel 
MB(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine and Primary Care, Department of Medicine, 
Harvard Medical School, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Department of Family Medicine, School of Medicine, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(3)Department of Population Medicine, Harvard Medical School and Department of 
Medicine, Harvard Vanguard Medical Associates, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)VA Ann Arbor Center for Clinical Management, Departments of Internal Medicine 
and Psychology and Center for Bioethics and Social Sciences in Medicine, 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor MI, USA.
(5)Division of General Internal Medicine, University of Colorado School of 
Medicine, Aurora, CO, USA.

PURPOSE: There is insufficient evidence to recommend mammography for women >75 
years. Guidelines recommend that older women be informed of the uncertainty of 
benefit and potential for harm, especially for women with short life expectancy. 
However, few older women are informed of harms of screening and many with short 
life expectancy are screened. Therefore, we aim to test whether a mammography 
screening decision aid (DA) for women >75 years affects their use of 
mammography, particularly for women with <10 year life expectancy.
METHODS/DESIGN: The DA is a self-administered pamphlet that includes information 
on screening outcomes, tailored information on breast cancer risk, health, life 
expectancy, and competing mortality risks, and includes a values clarification 
exercise. We are conducting a large cluster randomized controlled trial (RCT) of 
the DA with the primary care provider (PCP) as the unit of randomization to 
evaluate its efficacy. We plan to recruit 550 women 75-89 years from 100 PCPs to 
receive either the mammography DA or a pamphlet on home safety for older adults 
(control arm) before a visit with their PCP, depending on their PCP's 
randomization assignment. The primary outcome is receipt of mammography 
screening assessed through chart abstraction. Secondary outcomes include effect 
of the DA on older women's screening intentions, knowledge, and decisional 
conflict, and on documented discussions about mammography by their PCPs. We will 
recruit women from 5 Boston-based primary care practices (3 community-based 
internal medicine practices and 2 academic practices), and 2 North 
Carolina-based academic primary care practices.
DISCUSSION: It is essential that we test the DA in a large RCT to determine if 
it is efficacious and to substantiate the need for broad translation into 
clinical practice. Our DA has the potential to improve health care utilization 
and care in a manner dictated by patient preferences.

DOI: 10.4172/2167-0870.1000191
PMCID: PMC4517685
PMID: 26229741


313. Rev Bras Ortop. 2014 May 3;49(4):405-8. doi: 10.1016/j.rboe.2014.04.014. 
eCollection 2014 Jul-Aug.

Lumbar stenosis: clinical case.

Sá P(1), Marques P(1), Alpoim B(1), Rodrigues E(1), Félix A(1), Silva L(1), Leal 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)Unidade Local de Saúde Alto Minho, Viana do Castelo, Portugal.

Lumbar stenosis is an increasingly common pathological condition that is 
becoming more frequent with increasing mean life expectancy, with high costs for 
society. It has many causes, among which degenerative, neoplastic and traumatic 
causes stand out. Most of the patients respond well to conservative therapy. 
Surgical treatment is reserved for patients who present symptoms after 
implementation of conservative measures. Here, a case of severe stenosis of the 
lumbar spine at several levels, in a female patient with pathological and 
surgical antecedents in the lumbar spine, is presented. The patient underwent 
two different decompression techniques within the same operation.

Publisher: A estenose lombar é uma patologia cada vez mais frequente, que 
acompanha o aumento da esperança média de vida e que comporta custos elevados 
para a nossa sociedade. Apresenta inúmeras causas, entre as quais destacam-se a 
degenerativa, a neoplásica e a traumática. A maioria dos pacientes responde bem 
à terapêutica conservadora. O tratamento cirúrgico está reservado para aqueles 
doentes que apresentem sintomatologia após a implementação de medidas 
conservadoras. É apresentado um caso de estenose grave da coluna lombar em 
vários níveis, numa doente do sexo feminino com antecedentes 
patológicos/cirúrgicos da coluna lombar, na qual foram aplicadas duas técnicas 
distintas de descompressão, no mesmo ato cirúrgico.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rboe.2014.04.014
PMCID: PMC4511619
PMID: 26229836


314. Rev Bras Ortop. 2014 Aug 29;49(5):477-81. doi: 10.1016/j.rboe.2014.08.008. 
eCollection 2014 Sep-Oct.

Evaluation of the quality of life after vertebroplasty to treat compressive 
osteoporotic fractures.

Santos RF(1), Ribeiro JC(1), de Moraes FB(1), Cardoso AL(1), Pimenta Junior 
WE(1), Daher MT(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Universidade Federal de Goiás (UFG), Goiânia, GO, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: with increasing life expectancy around the world, fractures due to 
osteoporosis have become more common and the expenditure for treating them has 
also increased. The aim here was to evaluate the improvement in pain and quality 
of life among patients with compressive osteoporotic vertebral fractures 
undergoing vertebroplasty.
METHODS: eighteen patients with 27 fractured vertebrae underwent vertebroplasty 
and were evaluated using the Oswestry 2.0 limitations questionnaire before the 
operation and 24 h and six months after the operation.
RESULTS: there was a 75% improvement in pain and quality of life, going from a 
mean preoperative Oswestry of 40% to 10% 24 h after the operation and 9% six 
months after the operation (p ≤ 0.05).
CONCLUSION: vertebroplasty is effective in managing compressive osteoporotic 
vertebral fractures, with improvement in pain and quality of life in the 
immediate postoperative period and over the medium term.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: com o aumento da expectativa de vida no mundo, as fraturas 
por osteoporose se tornaram mais frequentes e aumentaram também os gastos no 
tratamento. Avaliar a melhoria na dor e na qualidade de vida de pacientes com 
fraturas vertebrais osteoporóticas compressivas submetidos a vertebroplastia.
MÉTODOS: foram submetidos à vertebroplastia 18 pacientes com 27 vértebras 
fraturadas e avaliados pelo questionário de limitações de Oswestry 2.0 de forma 
pré-operatória, 24 horas e seis meses no pós-operatório.
RESULTADOS: melhoria de 75% da dor e na qualidade de vida, com Oswestry médio 
pré-operatório de 40%, em 24 horas de 10% e após seis meses da cirurgia, de 9%. 
(p ≤ 0,05).
CONCLUSÃO: s vertebroplastia é efetiva no manejo das fraturas vertebrais 
osteoporóticas por compressão e melhora a dor e a qualidade de vida dos 
pacientes no pós-operatório imediato e médio prazo.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rboe.2014.08.008
PMCID: PMC4487787
PMID: 26229848


315. Rev Bras Ortop. 2014 Oct 27;49(6):555-64. doi: 10.1016/j.rboe.2013.10.002. 
eCollection 2014 Nov-Dec.

Osteochondroma: ignore or investigate?

de Souza AM(1), Bispo Júnior RZ(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Federal University of Pernambuco (UFPE), Recife, PE, 
Brazil.
(2)School of Medicine, Federal University of Paraíba (UFPB), João Pessoa, PB, 
Brazil ; University Center of João Pessoa (UNIPÊ), João Pessoa, PB, Brazil.

Osteochondromas are bone protuberances surrounded by a cartilage layer. They 
generally affect the extremities of the long bones in an immature skeleton and 
deform them. They usually occur singly, but a multiple form of presentation may 
be found. They have a very characteristic appearance and are easily diagnosed. 
However, an atypical site (in the axial skeleton) and/or malignant 
transformation of the lesion may sometimes make it difficult to identify 
osteochondromas immediately by means of radiographic examination. In these 
cases, imaging examinations that are more refined are necessary. Although 
osteochondromas do not directly affect these patients' life expectancy, certain 
complications may occur, with varying degrees of severity.

Publisher: Osteocondromas são protuberâncias ósseas envolvidas por uma camada de 
cartilagem. Atingem, habitualmente, as extremidades dos ossos longos no 
esqueleto imaturo e os deformam. Em geral são únicos, mas a forma de 
apresentação múltipla pode ser encontrada. De aspecto bastante característico, 
são de fácil diagnóstico. Contudo, por vezes, a localização atípica (esqueleto 
axial) e/ou a malignização da lesão podem dificultar a sua pronta identificação 
por exames radiográficos. Nesses casos, exames de imagem mais apurados são 
necessários. Apesar de não afetarem diretamente a expectativa de vida do 
portador, algumas complicações, com variados graus de gravidade, podem ocorrer.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rboe.2013.10.002
PMCID: PMC4487501
PMID: 26229862


316. J Infect Dev Ctries. 2015 Jul 30;9(7):780-4. doi: 10.3855/jidc.6027.

Bacterial pericarditis and antimicrobial resistance at the Tehran Heart Center, 
Iran.

Sotoudeh Anvari M(1), Kianinejad R, Boroumand MA, Arzhan S, Jalali A.

Author information:
(1)Tehran Heart Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. 
dr_msotudeh@yahoo.com.

INTRODUCTION: When bacterial pericarditis is suspected, urgent pericardial 
drainage combined with intravenous antibacterial therapy is mandatory to avert 
devastating, life-threatening complications. There have been scanty results on 
antimicrobial susceptibility of common causative microorganisms of bacterial 
pericarditis; most studies had small sample sizes and were performed decades 
ago.
METHODOLOGY: This prospective study surveyed the causative bacteria in 
infectious pericardial effusions and their antimicrobial susceptibility among 
320 consecutive cardiac patients who underwent pericardiocentesis at Tehran 
Heart Center between 2007 and 2012, using the European Society of Cardiology 
(ESC)'s criteria.
RESULTS: Staphylococcus spp. (S. epidermidis, S. aureus, S. haemolyticus) were 
the main causative organisms isolated from cultures of pericardial effusion 
samples. Other causative organisms were Streptococcus spp., Enterococcus 
faecium, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Acinetobacter baumannii. In the cultures 
studied, 35% methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis (MRSE) and 42.9% 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) were detected. The most 
effective antimicrobial agents in S. epidermidis were gentamicin, ciprofloxacin, 
and cefoxitin. Clindamycin was relatively effective. S. aureus was highly 
susceptible to clindamycin and erythromycin. In cases of S. haemolyticus 
infection, clindamycin, erythromycin, cefoxitin, and ciprofloxacin were 
effective antibiotics.
CONCLUSIONS: In order to diminish the nascence and extension of 
antimicrobial-resistant pathogens, logical and optimized antimicrobial usage and 
monitoring in hospitals are highly recommended. It is incumbent on healthcare 
systems to determine current local resistance patterns by which to guide empiric 
antimicrobial therapy for specific infections and microorganism types.

DOI: 10.3855/jidc.6027
PMID: 26230130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 31;10(7):e0133820. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133820. 
eCollection 2015.

The Effect of Post-Reproductive Lifespan on the Fixation Probability of 
Beneficial Mutations.

Giaimo S(1), Baudisch A(1).

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Research Group: Modeling the Evolution of Aging, Max Planck 
Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany.

Post-reproductive lifespan is a common trait among mammals and is usually 
considered to be neutral; i.e. with no influence on population dynamics. Here, 
we explore the role of post-reproductive lifespan in the fixation probability of 
beneficial genetic variation. We compare two separate, stationary populations 
living in a constant environment that are equivalent except for the average time 
their respective members spend in the post-reproductive stage of life. Using a 
recently derived approximation, we show that fixation of a beneficial mutation 
is more likely in the population with greater post-reproductive longevity. This 
finding is surprising, as the population with more prolonged post-reproductive 
lifespan has smaller effective size and the classic population-genetic model 
would suggest that decreasing effective size reduces fixation chances of 
beneficial mutations. Yet, as we explain, in the age-structured case, when 
effective size gets smaller because of longer post-reproductive lifespan but 
census size is kept equal, a beneficial mutation has a higher likelihood to get 
fixed because it finds itself at higher initial frequency.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133820
PMCID: PMC4521943
PMID: 26230256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


318. A A Case Rep. 2015 Aug 1;5(3):36-9. doi: 10.1213/XAA.0000000000000175.

A Delayed Finding of a Tracheal Cartilaginous Sleeve in a Patient with Pfeiffer 
Syndrome Type 2 and a Complex Airway History.

Colomb C(1), Hippard HK, Canadas K, Watcha M.

Author information:
(1)From the Departments of *Anesthesiology and †Otolaryngology, Texas Children's 
Hospital, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.

Persistent airway obstruction symptoms in a 2½-year-old boy with Pfeiffer 
syndrome were attributed to facial abnormalities, central and obstructive sleep 
apnea, and tracheomalacia from a vascular ring. These findings delayed the 
diagnosis of a tracheal cartilaginous sleeve. Life expectancy in tracheal 
cartilaginous sleeve is improved by tracheostomy. Tracheal cartilaginous sleeve 
should be considered and investigated through airway endoscopy in children with 
fibroblast growth factor receptor-related craniosynostosis syndromes.

DOI: 10.1213/XAA.0000000000000175
PMID: 26230305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. J Neurosurg Spine. 2015 Nov;23(5):620-629. doi: 10.3171/2015.2.SPINE14618.
Epub  2015 Jul 31.

Prognostic factors associated with pain palliation after spine stereotactic body 
radiation therapy.

Puvanesarajah V(1), Lo SL(1), Aygun N(2), Liauw JA(1), Jusué-Torres I(1), Lina 
IA(1), Hadelsberg U(3), Elder BD(1), Bydon A(1), Bettegowda C(1), Sciubba DM(1), 
Wolinsky JP(1), Rigamonti D(1), Kleinberg LR(3), Gokaslan ZL(1), Witham TF(1), 
Redmond KJ(3), Lim M(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of 1 Neurosurgery.
(2)Radiology, and.
(3)Radiation Oncology and Molecular Radiation Science, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.

OBJECT The number of patients with spinal tumors is rapidly increasing; spinal 
metastases develop in more than 30% of cancer patients during the course of 
their illness. Such lesions can significantly decrease quality of life, often 
necessitating treatment. Stereotactic radiosurgery has effectively achieved 
local control and symptomatic relief for these patients. The authors determined 
prognostic factors that predicted pain palliation and report overall 
institutional outcomes after spine stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT). 
METHODS Records of patients who had undergone treatment with SBRT for either 
primary spinal tumors or spinal metastases from June 2008 through June 2013 were 
retrospectively reviewed. Data were collected at the initial visit just before 
treatment and at 1-, 3-, 6-, and 12-month follow-up visits. Collected clinical 
data included Karnofsky Performance Scale scores, pain status, presence of 
neurological deficits, and prior radiation exposure at the level of interest. 
Radiation treatment plan parameters (dose, fractionation, and target coverage) 
were recorded. To determine the initial extent of epidural spinal cord 
compression (ESCC), the authors retrospectively reviewed MR images, assessed 
spinal instability according to the Bilsky scale, and evaluated lesion 
progression after treatment. RESULTS The study included 99 patients (mean age 
60.4 years). The median survival time was 9.1 months (95% CI 6.9-17.2 months). 
Significant decreases in the proportion of patients reporting pain were observed 
at 3 months (p < 0.0001), 6 months (p = 0.0002), and 12 months (p = 0.0019) 
after treatment. Significant decreases in the number of patients reporting pain 
were also observed at the last follow-up visit (p = 0.00020) (median follow-up 
time 6.1 months, range 1.0-56.6 months). Univariate analyses revealed that 
significant predictors of persistent pain after intervention were initial ESCC 
grade, stratified by a Bilsky grade of 1c (p = 0.0058); initial American Spinal 
Injury Association grade of D (p = 0.011); initial Karnofsky Performance Scale 
score, stratified by a score of 80 (p = 0.002); the presence of multiple treated 
lesions (p = 0.044); and prior radiation at the site of interest (p < 0.0001). 
However, when multivariate analyses were performed on all variables with p 
values less than 0.05, the only predictor of pain at last follow-up visit was a 
prior history of radiation at the site of interest (p = 0.0038), although 
initial ESCC grade trended toward significance (p = 0.073). Using pain outcomes 
at 3 months, at this follow-up time point, pain could be predicted by receipt of 
radiation above a threshold biologically effective dose of 66.7 Gy. CONCLUSIONS 
Pain palliation occurs as early as 3 months after treatment; significant 
differences in pain reporting are also observed at 6 and 12 months. Pain 
palliation is limited for patients with spinal tumors with epidural extension 
that deforms the cord and for patients who have previously received radiation to 
the same site. Further investigation into the optimal dose and fractionation 
schedule are needed, but improved outcomes were observed in patients who 
received radiation at a biologically effective dose (with an a/b of 3.0) of 66.7 
Gy or higher.

DOI: 10.3171/2015.2.SPINE14618
PMCID: PMC4733601
PMID: 26230422


320. Rev Med Chil. 2015 Jun;143(6):774-86. doi: 10.4067/S0034-98872015000600011.

[The Chilean Health Care System: the task ahead].

[Article in Spanish]

Goic A.

The most important event in Chilean public health in the XXth Century was the 
creation of the National Health Service (NHS), in 1952. Systematic public 
policies for the promotion of health, disease prevention, medical care, and 
rehabilitation were implemented, while a number of more specific programs were 
introduced, such as those on infant malnutrition, complementary infant feeding, 
medical control of pregnant women and healthy infants, infant and adult 
vaccination, and essential sanitation services. In 1981, a parallel private 
health care system was introduced in the form of medical care financial 
institutions, which today cover 15% of the population, as contrasted with the 
public system, which covers about 80%. From 1952 to 2014, public health care 
policies made possible a remarkable improvement in Chile's health indexes: 
downward trends in infant mortality rate (from 117.8 to 7.2 x 1,000 live 
births), maternal mortality (from 276 to 18.5 x 100,000), undernourished 
children < 5 years old (from 63% to 0.5%); and upward trends in life expectancy 
at birth (from 50 to 79,8 years), professional hospital care of births (from 35% 
to 99.8%), access to drinking water (from 52% to 99%), and access to sanitary 
sewer (from 21% to 98.9%). This went hand in hand with an improvement in 
economic and social indexes: per capita income at purchasing power parity 
increased from US$ 3,827 to US$ 20,894 and poverty decreased from 60% to 14.4% 
of the population. Related indexes such as illiteracy, average schooling, and 
years of primary school education, were significantly improved as well. 
Nevertheless, compared with OECD countries, Chile has a relatively low public 
investment in health (45.7% of total national investment), a deficit in the 
number of physicians (1.7 x 1,000 inhabitants) and nurses (4.8 x 1,000), in the 
number of hospital beds (2.1 x 1,000), and in the availability of generic drugs 
in the market (30%). Chile and the USA are the two OECD countries with the 
lowest public investment in health. A generalized dissatisfaction with the 
current Chilean health care model and the need of the vast majority of the 
population for timely access to acceptable quality medical care are powerful 
arguments which point to the need for a universal public health care system. The 
significant increase in public expenditure on health care which such a system 
would demand requires a sustainable growth of the Chilean economy.

DOI: 10.4067/S0034-98872015000600011
PMID: 26230561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Pharmacogenomics. 2015;16(10):1089-100. doi: 10.2217/pgs.15.64. Epub 2015
Jul  31.

Universal versus genotype-guided use of direct oral anticoagulants in atrial 
fibrillation patients: a decision analysis.

You JH(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Shatin, Hong Kong, China SAR.

AIM: This study aims to compare clinical and economic outcomes of CYP2C9 and 
VKORC1 genotype-guided (PG-DOAC) versus universal use of direct oral 
anticoagulant (DOAC) for stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation 
(AF).
METHODS: Outcomes of oral anticoagulation therapy were simulated using life-long 
Markov modeling. In PG-DOAC, patients with genotype of high or low warfarin 
sensitivity were treated with DOAC, and patients with normal warfarin 
sensitivity genotype received warfarin.
RESULTS: Expected quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and cost of DOAC were 
higher than PG-DOAC. Incremental cost per QALY (ICER) of DOAC versus PG-DOAC was 
314,129 USD/QALY, exceeding willingness-to-pay threshold (50,000 USD/QALY).
CONCLUSION: Using individual genotype to guide the use of DOAC versus warfarin 
appears to be the preferred strategy.

DOI: 10.2217/pgs.15.64
PMID: 26230572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 31;10(7):e0131636. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131636. 
eCollection 2015.

Modulation of Emotional Category Induced by Temporal Factors in Emotion 
Recognition.

Maeshima H(1), Yamashita Y(2), Fujimura T(3), Okada M(4), Okanoya K(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan; JST, ERATO, Okanoya Emotional Information 
Project, Wako, Saitama, Japan.
(2)JST, ERATO, Okanoya Emotional Information Project, Wako, Saitama, Japan; 
Cognition and Behavior Joint Research Laboratory, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Wako, Saitama, Japan; Department of Functional Brain Research, National 
Institute of Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(3)JST, ERATO, Okanoya Emotional Information Project, Wako, Saitama, Japan; 
Cognition and Behavior Joint Research Laboratory, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Wako, Saitama, Japan; Human Technology Research Institute, National Institute of 
Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.
(4)JST, ERATO, Okanoya Emotional Information Project, Wako, Saitama, Japan; 
Cognition and Behavior Joint Research Laboratory, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Wako, Saitama, Japan; Department of Complexity Science and Engineering, Graduate 
School of Frontier Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Kashiwa, Chiba, Japan.
(5)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan; JST, ERATO, Okanoya Emotional Information 
Project, Wako, Saitama, Japan; Cognition and Behavior Joint Research Laboratory, 
RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Wako, Saitama, Japan.

Categorical perception (CP), the perceptual experience whereby continuous 
sensory phenomena are perceived as distinct and separate percepts, is one of the 
