PMID: 26219616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. J Rehabil Res Dev. 2015;52(3):323-31. doi: 10.1682/JRRD.2014.10.0243.

Effects of Kinesio Tape application to quadriceps muscles on isokinetic muscle 
strength, gait, and functional parameters in patients with stroke.

Ekiz T, Aslan MD, Özgirgin N.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of Kinesio Tape (KT) 
application to quadriceps muscles on isokinetic muscle strength, gait, and 
functional parameters in patients with stroke. Twenty-four patients were 
allocated into KT and control groups. All patients participated in the same 
conventional rehabilitation program 5 times/wk for 4 wk. In addition, KT was 
applied to quadriceps muscles bilaterally to the patients in the KT group. 
Compared with baseline, peak torque levels increased significantly in both 
groups (all p < 0.05). However, change levels were significantly higher in the 
KT group than the control group at 60 degrees/second angular velocity (AV) in 
extension (p = 0.04) and 60 and 180 degrees/second AV in flexion (both p = 0.02) 
on the paretic side. Moreover, the change levels were more prominent in the KT 
group at 60 and 180 degrees/second AV in extension (p = 0.03 and p = 0.04, 
respectively) on the nonparetic side. Gait, balance, mobility, and quality of 
life values improved significantly in both groups (all p < 0.05), yet the change 
levels between the groups did not reach significance (p > 0.05). KT application 
to quadriceps muscles in addition to conventional exercises for 4 wk is 
effective on isokinetic but not functional parameters.

DOI: 10.1682/JRRD.2014.10.0243
PMID: 26220179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Obes Surg. 2016 Apr;26(4):730-6. doi: 10.1007/s11695-015-1824-2.

Morbidity Rates and Weight Loss After Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass, Sleeve 
Gastrectomy, and Adjustable Gastric Banding in Patients Older Than 60 Years old: 
Which Procedure to Choose?

Moon RC(1), Kreimer F(2), Teixeira AF(1), Campos JM(2), Ferraz A(2), Jawad 
MA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bariatric Surgery, Orlando Regional Medical Center, Orlando 
Health, 89 W Copeland Dr, 1st Floor, Orlando, FL, USA.
(2)Universidade Federal de Pernambuco-Brazil, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil.
(3)Department of Bariatric Surgery, Orlando Regional Medical Center, Orlando 
Health, 89 W Copeland Dr, 1st Floor, Orlando, FL, USA. 
muhammad.jawad@orlandohealth.com.

BACKGROUND: As life expectancy increases, more elderly patients fit into the 
criteria for bariatric procedures. The aim of our study is to evaluate and 
compare the safety and efficacy of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB), laparoscopic 
sleeve gastrectomy (LSG), and laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding (LAGB) in 
patients older than 60.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Between January 2005 and December 2013, 68 LAGB, 73 LSG, 
and 212 RYGB patients were 60 years or older at the time of primary procedure. A 
retrospective review was performed in these patients.
RESULTS: Mean age and body mass index (BMI) was 62.7 ± 2.2, 64.1 ± 2.9, and 
62.6 ± 2.3 years and 42.7 ± 5.6, 44.0 ± 7.0, and 45.2 ± 6.7 kg/m(2) for LAGB, 
LSG, and RYGB at the time of procedure, respectively. Seven (10.3%) patients 
from the LAGB, 3 (4.1%) from the LSG, and 29 (13.8%) from the RYGB group 
required readmissions. Reoperation rate was 10.3, 1.4, and 9.5% in LAGB, LSG, 
and RYGB, respectively. The difference in reoperation rates was statistically 
significant (p < 0.03) while that in readmission rates was not (p > 0.58). 
Procedure-related mortality rate was 1.4% in the RYGB group, while no mortality 
was observed in LSG and LAGB groups. At 6, 12, and 18 months postoperatively, 
mean percentage of excess weight loss were highest in the RYGB group, followed 
by LSG and LAGB group (p < 0.01). Mean number of comorbidities at the last 
follow-up significantly decreased in LSG and RYGB patients.
CONCLUSIONS: LSG showed the lowest readmission and reoperation rate, and RYGB 
patients had the highest mortality rate. Weight loss and comorbidity resolution 
were effectively achieved in RYGB and LSG patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s11695-015-1824-2
PMID: 26220238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Curr Top Microbiol Immunol. 2016;392:23-42. doi: 10.1007/82_2015_454.

The Nucleation of Semantic Information in Prebiotic Matter.

Küppers BO(1).

Author information:
(1)Friedrich Schiller Universität Jena, Jena, Germany. 
bernd.kueppers@uni-jena.de.

The analysis of the inherent context-dependence of genetic information suggests 
that there are evolutionary mechanisms which are independent of the processes of 
environmental adaptation and yet are able to push prebiotic matter towards 
functional complexity. In this regard, the extension of information space, by 
random prolongation of the primary structure of biological macromolecules, must 
have played a decisive role in the origin of life. On the one hand, the 
extension of information space is tantamount to an increase in the syntactic 
complexity of potential information carriers, which in turn is a prerequisite 
for the nucleation and evolution of semantic information. On the other hand, the 
increase in the dimensionality of information space expands the number of 
possible pathways of evolutionary optimisation and thereby improves the possible 
choices that can be made by progressive evolution. Alongside the optimisation of 
evolutionary optimisation itself, there are principles of evolutionary dynamics 
that direct the formation of functional order in prebiotic matter. Since these 
principles are constitutive for the proto-semantics of genetic information, they 
may be regarded as the elements of the semantic code of evolution.

DOI: 10.1007/82_2015_454
PMID: 26220771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. AIP Adv. 2015 Jul 8;5(8):084803. doi: 10.1063/1.4926584. eCollection 2015
Aug.

Confocal fluorescence microscopy: An ultra-sensitive tool used to evaluate 
intracellular antiretroviral nano-drug delivery in HeLa cells.

Mandal S(1), Zhou Y(2), Shibata A(3), Destache CJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy and Health Professions, Creighton University , Omaha, NE 
68178, USA.
(2)Center for Biotechnology, the University of Nebraska-Lincoln , Lincoln, NE 
68588, USA.
(3)Department of Biology, Creighton University , Omaha, NE 68178, USA.

In the last decade, confocal fluorescence microscopy has emerged as an 
ultra-sensitive tool for real-time study of nanoparticles (NPs) fate at the 
cellular-level. According to WHO 2007 report, Human Immunodeficiency 
Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS) is still one of the world's 
major health threats by claiming approximately 7,000 new infections daily 
worldwide. Although combination antiretroviral drugs (cARV) therapy has improved 
the life-expectancy of HIV-infected patients, routine use of high doses of cARV 
has serious health consequences and requires complete adherence to the regimen 
for success. Thus, our research goal is to fabricate long-acting novel cARV 
loaded poly(lactide-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) nanoparticles (cARV-NPs) as drug 
delivery system. However, important aspects of cARV-NPs that require special 
emphasis are their cellular-uptake, potency, and sustained drug release 
efficiency over-time. In this article, ultra-sensitive confocal microscopy is 
been used to evaluate the uptake and sustained drug release kinetics of cARV-NPs 
in HeLa cells. To evaluate with the above goal, instead of cARV-drug, 
Rhodamine6G dye (fluorescent dye) loaded NPs (Rho6G NPs) have been formulated. 
To correlate the Rhodamin6G release kinetics with the ARV release from NPs, a 
parallel HPLC study was also performed. The results obtained indicate that Rho6G 
NPs were efficiently taken up at low concentration (<500 ng/ml) and that release 
was sustained for a minimum of 4 days of treatment. Therefore, high drug 
assimilation and sustained release properties of PLGA-NPs make them an 
attractive vehicle for cARV nano-drug delivery with the potential to reduce drug 
dosage as well as the number of drug administrations per month.

DOI: 10.1063/1.4926584
PMCID: PMC4499042
PMID: 26221566


282. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2015 Nov;24(6):867-72. doi: 10.1111/ecc.12359.
Epub  2015 Jul 29.

Unmet clinical needs in the management of advanced melanoma: findings from a 
survey of oncologists.

Jones C(1), Clapton G(1), Zhao Z(2), Barber B(2), Saltman D(3)(4), Corrie P(5).

Author information:
(1)PRMA Consulting Ltd, Fleet, UK.
(2)Amgen Inc., Thousand Oaks, CA, USA.
(3)Imperial College London, London, UK.
(4)University of Technology Sydney, Broadway, NSW, Australia.
(5)Department of Oncology, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 
Cambridge, UK.

Comment in
    Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2015 Nov;24(6):768-70.

Advanced melanoma is a life-threatening cancer with limited life expectancy. The 
recent introduction of new targeted systemic therapies has provided clinicians 
with the means to potentially extend survival for the first time. However, the 
chance of cure remains very low and treatment-induced toxicity is well 
described. This qualitative study was undertaken to evaluate clinicians' 
assessment regarding the key concerns in managing advanced melanoma following 
the introduction of these new treatments. Three hundred and forty-three 
oncologists were surveyed online between August and November 2012 (in 11 
countries) and March and April 2013 (in an additional country). Analysis of 
free-text responses identified 23 clinical issues of concern across all 
countries. Of these, the most common clinical concerns were drug toxicity and 
tolerability, followed by limited treatment effectiveness and limited treatment 
options. These results suggest that despite the promise of the two new agents in 
the field, clinicians are still concerned about the limitations of current 
treatment options, recognising that there remains a significant unmet need in 
the treatment of advanced melanoma.

© 2015 PRMA Consulting Ltd. European Journal of Cancer Care published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ecc.12359
PMCID: PMC5034841
PMID: 26222136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Environ Toxicol Chem. 2016 Feb;35(2):385-93. doi: 10.1002/etc.3183. Epub
2015  Dec 22.

Thiamethoxam: Assessing flight activity of honeybees foraging on treated oilseed 
rape using radio frequency identification technology.

Thompson H(1), Coulson M(1), Ruddle N(1), Wilkins S(2), Harkin S(2).

Author information:
(1)Jealott's Hill International Research Station, Syngenta, Bracknell, 
Berkshire, United Kingdom.
(2)Fera, Sand Hutton, York, United Kingdom.

The present study was designed to assess homing behavior of bees foraging on 
winter oilseed rape grown from seed treated with thiamethoxam (as Cruiser OSR), 
with 1 field drilled with thiamethoxam-treated seed and 2 control fields drilled 
with fungicide-only-treated seed. Twelve honeybee colonies were used per 
treatment group, 4 each located at the field edge (on-field site), at 
approximately 500 m and 1000 m from the field. A total of nearly 300 newly 
emerged bees per colony were fitted (tagged) with Mic3 radio frequency 
identification (RFID) transponders and introduced into each of the 36 study 
hives. The RFID readers fitted to the entrances of the test colonies were used 
to monitor the activity of the tagged bees for the duration of the 5-wk 
flowering period of the crop. These activity data were analyzed to assess any 
impact on flight activity of bees foraging on the treated compared with 
untreated crops. Honeybees were seen to be actively foraging within all 3 
treatment groups during the exposure period. The data for the more than 3000 
RFID-tagged bees and more than 90 000 foraging flights monitored throughout the 
exposure phase for the study follow the same trends across the treatment and 
controls and at each of the 3 apiary distances, indicating that there were no 
effects from foraging on the treated crop. Under the experimental conditions, 
there was no effect of foraging on thiamethoxam-treated oilseed rape on honeybee 
flight activity or on their ability to return to the hive.

© 2015 SETAC.

DOI: 10.1002/etc.3183
PMID: 26222207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 29;10(7):e0132602. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0132602. 
eCollection 2015.

Opposite Effects of Early-Life Competition and Developmental Telomere Attrition 
on Cognitive Biases in Juvenile European Starlings.

Bateson M(1), Emmerson M(1), Ergün G(1), Monaghan P(2), Nettle D(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Behaviour & Evolution and Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle 
University, Newcastle upon Tyne, United Kingdom.
(2)Institute of Biodiversity, Animal Health & Comparative Medicine, University 
of Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom.

Moods are enduring affective states that we hypothesise should be affected by an 
individual's developmental experience and its current somatic state. We tested 
whether early-life adversity, induced by manipulating brood size, subsequently 
altered juvenile European starlings' (Sturnus vulgaris) decisions in a judgment 
bias task designed to provide a cognitive measure of mood. We predicted that 
starlings from larger broods, specifically those that had experienced more nest 
competitors larger than themselves would exhibit reduced expectation of reward, 
indicative of a 'pessimistic', depression-like mood. We used a go/no-go task, in 
which 30 starlings were trained to probe a grey card disc associated with a 
palatable mealworm hidden underneath and avoid a different shade of grey card 
disc associated with a noxious quinine-injected mealworm hidden underneath. 
Birds' response latencies to the trained stimuli and also to novel, ambiguous 
stimuli intermediate between these were subsequently tested. Birds that had 
experienced greater competition in the nest were faster to probe trained 
stimuli, and it was therefore necessary to control statistically for this 
difference in subsequent analyses of the birds' responses to the ambiguous 
stimuli. As predicted, birds with more, larger nest competitors showed 
relatively longer latencies to probe ambiguous stimuli, suggesting reduced 
expectation of reward and a 'pessimistic', depression-like mood. However, birds 
with greater developmental telomere attrition--a measure of cellular aging 
associated with increased morbidity and reduced life-expectancy that we argue 
could be used as a measure of somatic state--showed shorter latencies to probe 
ambiguous stimuli. This would usually be interpreted as evidence for a more 
positive or 'optimistic' affective state. Thus, increased competition in the 
nest and poor current somatic state appear to have opposite effects on cognitive 
biases. Our results lead us to question whether increased expectation of reward 
when presented with ambiguous stimuli always indicates a more positive affective 
state. We discuss the possibility that birds in poor current somatic state may 
adopt a 'hungry' cognitive phenotype that could drive behaviour commonly 
interpreted as 'optimism' in food-rewarded cognitive bias tasks.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0132602
PMCID: PMC4519284
PMID: 26222390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


285. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 29;10(7):e0133606. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133606. 
eCollection 2015.

An Assessment of the Expected Cost-Effectiveness of Quadrivalent Influenza 
Vaccines in Ontario, Canada Using a Static Model.

Chit A(1), Roiz J(2), Aballea S(3).

Author information:
(1)Health Outcomes and Economics-North America, Sanofi Pasteur, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada; Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(2)Creativ-Ceutical Ltd, London, United Kingdom.
(3)Creativ-Ceutical SARL, Paris, France.

Ontario, Canada, immunizes against influenza using a trivalent inactivated 
influenza vaccine (IIV3) under a Universal Influenza Immunization Program 
(UIIP). The UIIP offers IIV3 free-of-charge to all Ontarians over 6 months of 
age. A newly approved quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine (IIV4) offers 
wider protection against influenza B disease. We explored the expected 
cost-utility and budget impact of replacing IIV3 with IIV4, within the context 
of Ontario's UIIP, using a probabilistic and static cost-utility model. Wherever 
possible, epidemiological and cost data were obtained from Ontario sources. 
Canadian or U.S. sources were used when Ontario data were not available. Vaccine 
efficacy for IIV3 was obtained from the literature. IIV4 efficacy was derived 
from meta-analysis of strain-specific vaccine efficacy. Conservatively, herd 
protection was not considered. In the base case, we used IIV3 and IIV4 prices of 
$5.5/dose and $7/dose, respectively. We conducted a sensitivity analysis on the 
price of IIV4, as well as standard univariate and multivariate statistical 
uncertainty analyses. Over a typical influenza season, relative to IIV3, IIV4 is 
expected to avert an additional 2,516 influenza cases, 1,683 
influenza-associated medical visits, 27 influenza-associated hospitalizations, 
and 5 influenza-associated deaths. From a societal perspective, IIV4 would 
generate 76 more Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) and a net societal budget 
impact of $4,784,112. The incremental cost effectiveness ratio for this 
comparison was $63,773/QALY. IIV4 remains cost-effective up to a 53% price 
premium over IIV3. A probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that IIV4 was 
cost-effective with a probability of 65% for a threshold of $100,000/QALY 
gained. IIV4 is expected to achieve reductions in influenza-related morbidity 
and mortality compared to IIV3. Despite not accounting for herd protection, IIV4 
is still expected to be a cost-effective alternative to IIV3 up to a price 
premium of 53%. Our conclusions were robust in the face of sensitivity analyses.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133606
PMCID: PMC4519190
PMID: 26222538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: AC is an employee of Sanofi 
Pasteur. JR and SA are employees of Creativ-Ceutical Ltd and were hired as 
research consultants to Sanofi Pasteur for the conduct of this study. This does 
not alter the authors' adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and 
materials. AC has performed duties as a peer reviewer for PLOS ONE, this does 
not alter AC’s adherence to PLOS ONE Editorial policies and criteria.


286. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2015 Jul 27;63(3):1-120.

Deaths: Final Data for 2011.

Kochanek KD, Murphy SL, Xu J.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents final 2011 data on U.S. deaths, death rates, 
life expectancy, infant mortality, and trends by selected characteristics such 
as age, sex, Hispanic origin, race, state of residence, and cause of death.
METHODS: Information reported on death certificates, which is completed by 
funeral directors, attending physicians, medical examiners, and coroners, is 
presented in descriptive tabulations. The original records are filed in state 
registration offices. Statistical information is compiled in a national database 
through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention’s National Center for Health Statistics. Causes of death 
are processed in accordance with the International Classification of Diseases, 
Tenth Revision.
RESULTS: In 2011, a total of 2,515,458 deaths were reported in the United 
States. The age-adjusted death rate was 741.3 deaths per 100,000 standard 
population, a decrease of 0.8% from the 2010 rate and a record low figure. Life 
expectancy at birth in 2011 was unchanged from 2010 at 78.7 years. Age-specific 
death rates decreased in 2011 from 2010 for age groups under 1 year, 65–74, 
75–84, and 85 and over. Age-specific death rates increased for age groups 25–34 
and 45–54. The leading causes of death in 2011 remained the same as in 2010, 
although two causes exchanged ranks. Kidney disease, the eighth leading cause in 
2010, became the ninth leading cause in 2011, while Influenza and pneumonia, the 
ninth leading cause in 2010, became the eighth leading cause of death in 2011. 
The infant mortality rate of 6.07 deaths per 1,000 live births in 2011 was a 
historically low value.
CONCLUSION: The decline of the age-adjusted death rate to a record low value for 
the United States is consistent with long-term trends in mortality.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 26222597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Sex Transm Dis. 2015 Jul;42(7):369-75. doi: 10.1097/OLQ.0000000000000291.

Estimating the Public Health Burden Associated With Adverse Pregnancy Outcomes 
Resulting From Syphilis Infection Across 43 Countries in Sub-Saharan Africa.

Kuznik A(1), Habib AG, Manabe YC, Lamorde M.

Author information:
(1)From the *Infectious Diseases Institute, Makerere University College of 
Health Sciences, Kampala, Uganda; †Celgene Corporation, Summit, NJ; ‡Infectious 
and Tropical Diseases Unit, Bayero University, Kano, Nigeria; and §Division of 
Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD.

BACKGROUND: Untreated syphilis in pregnancy is associated with adverse clinical 
outcomes to the infant. The study aimed to estimate the public health burden 
resulting from adverse pregnancy outcomes due to syphilis infection among 
pregnant women not screened for syphilis in 43 countries in sub-Saharan Africa.
METHODS: Estimated country-specific incidence of syphilis was generated from 
annual number of live births, the proportion of women with at least 1 antenatal 
care (ANC) visit, the syphilis prevalence rate, and the proportion of women 
screened for syphilis during ANC.Adverse pregnancy outcome data (stillbirth, 
neonatal death, low birth weight, and congenital syphilis) were obtained from 
published sources. Disability-adjusted life-year (DALY) estimates were 
calculated using undiscounted local life expectancy, the neonatal standard loss 
function, and relevant disability weights. The model assessed the potential 
impact of raising ANC coverage to at least 95% and syphilis screening to at 
least 95% (World Health Organization targets).
RESULTS: For all 43 sub-Saharan Africa countries, the estimated incidence of 
adverse pregnancy outcomes was 205,901 (95% confidence interval [CI], 
113,256-383,051) per year, including stillbirth (88,376 [95% CI, 
60,854-121,713]), neonatal death (34,959 [95% CI, 23,330-50,076]), low birth 
weight (22,483 [95% CI, 0-98,847]), and congenital syphilis (60,084 [95% CI, 
29,073-112,414]), resulting in approximately 12.5 million DALYs. Countries with 
the greatest burden are (in DALYs, millions) Democratic Republic of the Congo 
(1.809), Nigeria (1.598), Ethiopia (1.466), and Tanzania (0.961). Attaining 
World Health Organization targets could reduce the burden by 8.5 million DALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: Substantial infant mortality and morbidity results from maternal 
syphilis infection concentrated in countries with low access to ANC or low rates 
of syphilis screening.

DOI: 10.1097/OLQ.0000000000000291
PMCID: PMC4520246
PMID: 26222749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: AK is an employee of, and 
has ownership of stock in Celgene Corporation. All other authors have no 
conflicts to declare.


288. Haemophilia. 2015 Nov;21(6):736-41. doi: 10.1111/hae.12768. Epub 2015 Jul
29.

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) in Canadians with haemophilia: Age-Related CVD in 
Haemophilia Epidemiological Research (ARCHER study).

Minuk L(1), Jackson S(2), Iorio A(3), Poon MC(4), Dilworth E(1), Brose K(5), 
Card R(5), Rizwan I(3), Chin-Yee B(1), Louzada M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, Western University, London, 
ON, Canada.
(2)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(3)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(4)Department of Medicine and The Southern Alberta Rare Blood and Bleeding 
Disorders Comprehensive Care Program, University of Calgary and Alberta Health 
Services, Calgary, AB, Canada.
(5)Division of Hematology, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, AB, Canada.

INTRODUCTION: Improvements in haemophilia care have increased life expectancy in 
persons with haemophilia (PWH). This ageing population presents clinicians with 
management challenges as they develop age-related comorbidities such as 
cardiovascular disease (CVD).
AIMS: To assess the epidemiology of CVD risk factors and events in an ageing 
Canadian haemophilia population.
METHODS: A retrospective, multicentre chart review was carried out at five 
Canadian Hemophilia Treatment Centres. PWH (A and B) ≥35 years old were included 
and data were extracted on CVD risk factors and events.
RESULTS: Data from 294 patients' charts were analysed including 222 (75.5%) 
patients with haemophilia A and 72 (24.5%) patients with haemophilia B with a 
median age at end of follow-up of 54 years (range = 36-90). Mean follow-up 
duration was 5.86 years. Cardiovascular risk factors were common: hypertension 
31.3% (n = 90), diabetes mellitus 10.5% (n = 29), smoking 21.8% (n = 61), 
obesity 27.6% (n = 69), dyslipidaemia 22.4% (n = 65), family history 8.5% 
(n = 24), antiretroviral therapy 12.2% (n = 36). There were 24 CVD events (8.2% 
of the population) with a median age at event of 63 years (range = 46-83). 
Events consisted of coronary artery disease (CAD), 14; cerebrovascular disease, 
4; and atrial fibrillation, 7. CAD was treated with coronary artery bypass 
grafting in three patients and percutaneous coronary intervention in nine 
patients. CVD events were complicated by six bleeding events (three minor and 
three major).
CONCLUSION: Cardiovascular disease risk factors and events are relatively common 
in PWH. PWH can be safely treated for CVD events with similar procedures as the 
non-PWH populations, though specific clotting factor prophylaxis protocols are 
not well defined.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hae.12768
PMID: 26222883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Health Technol Assess. 2015 Jul;19(60):1-110. doi: 10.3310/hta19600.

A systematic review and economic evaluation of exercise referral schemes in 
primary care: a short report.

Campbell F(1), Holmes M(1), Everson-Hock E(1), Davis S(1), Buckley Woods H(1), 
Anokye N(2), Tappenden P(1), Kaltenthaler E(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research 
(ScHARR), University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(2)Health Economics Research Group (HERG), Brunel University, Uxbridge, UK.

BACKGROUND: It is estimated that only 39% of men and 29% of women in England 
achieve the levels of physical activity that are recommended to protect health 
and prevent disease. One approach to addressing this problem has been the 
development of exercise referral schemes (ERSs), in which health professionals 
refer patients to external exercise providers. These schemes have been widely 
rolled out across the UK despite concerns that they may not produce sustained 
changes in levels of physical activity and, therefore, may not be cost-effective 
interventions. The evidence to determine clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness was evaluated in 2009. This review seeks to update this 
earlier work by incorporating new evidence and re-examining the 
cost-effectiveness.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of ERSs 
compared with usual care.
DESIGN: Exhaustive searches of relevant electronic databases and journals were 
undertaken to identify new studies evaluating ERSs using a randomised controlled 
trial (RCT) design. RCTs that incorporated a qualitative evaluation of the 
intervention were identified in order to explore the barriers and facilitators 
to the uptake of and adherence to ERSs. Data were extracted using a previously 
designed tool and study quality assessed for potential bias. Where data could be 
pooled, meta-analyses were carried out. Qualitative analysis was also undertaken 
using a thematic approach. The cost-effectiveness was evaluated using a Markov 
structure which estimated the likelihood of becoming physically active and the 
subsequent risk reduction on coronary heart disease (CHD), stroke and type 2 
diabetes mellitus. The model adopts a lifetime horizon, and a NHS and Personal 
Social Services perspective was taken with discounting at 1.5% for both costs 
and benefits.
RESULTS: The search identified one new RCT and one new qualitative study. The 
new data were pooled with existing data from the 2011 review by Pavey et al. 
[Pavey TG, Anokye N, Taylor AH, Trueman P, Moxham T, Fox KR, et al. The clinical 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of exercise referral schemes: a systematic 
review and economic evaluation. Health Technol Assess 2011;15(44)] to give a 
total of eight studies with 5190 participants. The proportion of individuals 
achieving 90-150 minutes of at least moderate-intensity activity per week at 
6-12 months' follow-up was greater for ERSs than usual care (relative risk 1.12; 
95% confidence interval 1.04 to 1.20). Older patients and those referred for CHD 
risk factors appeared to be more likely than others to increase their levels of 
physical activity. Qualitative evidence suggests that interventions enabling the 
development of social support networks are beneficial in promoting uptake and 
adherence. Exercise referral gained 0.003 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) at 
an additional cost of £225 per person. The estimated mean incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) in the probabilistic sensitivity analysis was 
£76,276. In the univariate sensitivity analysis the results were very sensitive 
(ICERs ranged from < £30,000 to > £100,000) to changes in the effect of ERSs on 
physical activity uptake and the duration of the protective effects and the 
direct health-related quality-of-life gains attributable to physical activity.
CONCLUSIONS: Exercise referral schemes result in a small improvement in the 
number of people who increase their levels of physical activity. The 
cost-effectiveness analysis indicates that the ICER for ERSs compared with usual 
care is around £76,000 per QALY, although the cost-effectiveness of ERSs is 
subject to considerable uncertainty.
STUDY REGISTRATION: This study is registered as PROSPERO CRD42013005200.
FUNDING: National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta19600
PMCID: PMC4781341
PMID: 26222987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. J Med Pract Manage. 2015 Jan-Feb;30(4):267-8.

Rules and Incentives: The Problem with American Healthcare.

Baum N.

There are very few within or outside of the American healthcare system who would 
argue that the current system of providing healthcare is badly broken and needs 
fixing. The cost of healthcare has outpaced every other sector of American life. 
We spend 2.5 times more on healthcare than do most developed countries in the 
world. Do we have the best healthcare in the world? The average life expectancy 
is 78.49 years, which ranks us 51st in the world. We spend more on healthcare 
than any other nation but get less for our hard-earned dollars. This article 
will provide suggestions for repairing the broken healthcare system with 
excerpts taken from the book Practical Wisdom, by Dr. Barry Schwartz and Kenneth 
Sharpe.

PMID: 26223108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. J Hum Genet. 2016 Jan;61(1):13-9. doi: 10.1038/jhg.2015.98. Epub 2015 Jul
30.

Genetics of congenital heart disease: the contribution of the noncoding 
regulatory genome.

Postma AV(1)(2), Bezzina CR(3), Christoffels VM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Embryology & Physiology, Academic Medical Center, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Clinical Genetics, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Clinical and Experimental Cardiology, Academic Medical Center, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Congenital heart disease (CHD) is the most common type of birth defect. The 
advent of corrective cardiac surgery and the increase in knowledge concerning 
the longitudinal care of patients with CHD has led to a spectacular increase in 
life expectancy. Therefore, >90% of children with CHD, who survive the first 
year of life, will live into adulthood. The etiology of CHD is complex and is 
associated with both environmental and genetic causes. CHD is a genetically 
heterogeneous disease that is associated with long-recognized chromosomal 
abnormalities, as well as with mutation in numerous (developmental) genes. 
Nevertheless, the genetic factors underlying CHD have remained largely elusive, 
and it is important to realize that in the far majority of CHD patients no 
causal mutation or chromosomal abnormality is identified. However, new insights 
(alternative inheritance paradigms) and technology (next-generation sequencing) 
have become available that can greatly advance our understanding of the genetic 
factors that contribute to CHD; these will be discussed in this review. 
Moreover, we will focus on the discovery of regulatory regions of key (heart) 
developmental genes and the occurrence of variations and mutations within, in 
the setting of CHD.

DOI: 10.1038/jhg.2015.98
PMID: 26223183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. HEC Forum. 2016 Jun;28(2):169-74. doi: 10.1007/s10730-015-9289-1.

Should Health Care Providers Uphold the DNR of a Terminally Ill Patient Who 
Attempts Suicide?

Campo-Engelstein L(1)(2), Jankowski J(3), Mullen M(4).

Author information:
(1)Alden March Bioethics Institute, Albany Medical Center, 47 New Scotland 
Avenue, Mail Code 153, Albany, NY, 12208, USA. campoel@mail.amc.edu.
(2)Department of OBGYN, Albany Medical College, 47 New Scotland Avenue, Mail 
Code 153, Albany, NY, 12208, USA. campoel@mail.amc.edu.
(3)Alden March Bioethics Institute, Albany Medical Center, 47 New Scotland 
Avenue, Mail Code 153, Albany, NY, 12208, USA.
(4)Health Sciences, Sage Colleges, 65 First Street, Rickets 320, Troy, NY, 
12180, USA.

An individual's right to refuse life-sustaining treatment is a fundamental 
expression of patient autonomy; however, supporting this right poses ethical 
dilemmas for healthcare providers when the patient has attempted suicide. 
Emergency physicians encounter patients who have attempted suicide and are 
likely among the first medical providers to face the dilemma of honoring the 
patient's DNR or intervening to reverse the effects of potentially fatal 
actions. We illustrate this issue by introducing a case example in which the DNR 
of a terminally ill woman was not honored because the cause of her cardiac 
arrest was suicide. We argue that although a terminal diagnosis should change 
the way health care providers respond to a suicide attempt, many of the 
theoretical underpinnings for how one should treat suicide attempts-especially 
the criterion of external reasonability, that is the action to withhold or 
withdraw life-sustaining measures is reasonable independent of the precipitating 
event-are common to all situations (Brown et al. in Am J Bioeth 13(3):3-12, 
2013). The presumption that patients who attempt suicide lack capacity due to 
acute mental illness is flawed because it fails to account for a competent 
individual's reasonable preference to not be forced to live in an unbearable, 
terminal condition. In states without legislation allowing physician aid in 
dying, patients and providers must grapple with these limitations on a 
case-by-case basis. In cases where the patient has a limited life expectancy and 
there is not concern for psychiatric illness as the primary cause of the 
suicidal action, we argue that the negative right to refuse life-sustaining 
treatment should prevail.

DOI: 10.1007/s10730-015-9289-1
PMID: 26223360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Rev Chil Pediatr. 2015 Jan-Feb;86(1):56-60. doi:
10.1016/j.rchipe.2015.04.011.

[Limitation of the therapeutic effort in pediatric intensive care].

[Article in Spanish]

Morales VG(1).

Author information:
(1)Pediatra, Unidad de Cuidados Intensivos Pediátricos y Programa de Magíster en 
Bioética, Clínica Alemana-Universidad del Desarrollo y Unidad de Cuidados 
Intensivos Pediátricos, Hospital Roberto del Río, Universidad de Chile. 
Electronic address: gmv.med@gmail.com.

Pediatric intensive care is a relatively new medical specialty, which has 
experienced significant technological advances in recent years. These 
developments have led to a prolongation of the dying process, with additional 
suffering for patients and their families, creating complex situations, and 
often causing a painful life extension. The term, limitation of the therapeutic 
effort refers to the adequacy and/or proportionality of the treatment, trying to 
avoid obstinacy and futility. The English literature does not talk about 
limitation of treatments, but instead the terms, withholding or withdrawal of 
life-sustaining treatment, are used. The removal or the non-installation of 
certain life support measures and the absence of CPR are the types of limitation 
most used. Also, there is evidence of insufficient medical training in 
bioethics, which is essential, as most doctors in the PICU discuss and make 
decisions regarding the end of life without the opinion of bioethicists. This 
article attempts to review the current status of knowledge concerning the 
limitation of therapeutic efforts to support pediatric clinical work.

Copyright © 2015. Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rchipe.2015.04.011
PMID: 26223400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Clin Calcium. 2015 Aug;25(8):1109-15.

[Analysis of Musculoskeletal Systems and Their Diseases. Integrated treatments 
for osteoporosis toward harmony of bone and muscle].

[Article in Japanese]

Kanazawa I(1), Sugimoto T.

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine 1, Shimane University Faculty of Medicine, Japan.

Osteoporosis and sarcopenia directly affect healthy life expectancy in elderly 
people ; therefore, both diseases become social problem around the world. 
Sarcopenia increases the risk of osteoporotic fracture. Thus, not only agents 
affecting bone tissue directly but also treatments for sarcopenia are important 
for management of osteoporosis. Recently, it has been shown that there is an 
interaction between bone and muscle. Several hormones affect muscle and bone 
simultaneously. Moreover, myokines secreted from muscle are reported to regulate 
bone metabolism. On the other hand, several systemic and local factors derived 
from bone also affect muscle tissue. Therefore, further studies are necessary to 
develop the integrated treatments for osteoporosis toward harmony of bone and 
muscle.

PMID: 26224666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Proc Biol Sci. 2015 Aug 7;282(1812):20151097. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2015.1097.

The extended Price equation quantifies species selection on mammalian body size 
across the Palaeocene/Eocene Thermal Maximum.

Rankin BD(1), Fox JW(2), Barrón-Ortiz CR(2), Chew AE(3), Holroyd PA(4), Ludtke 
JA(2), Yang X(2), Theodor JM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Calgary, 2500 University 
Drive, Calgary, Canada AB T2N 1N4 Museum of Paleontology, University of 
California, 1101 Valley Life Sciences Building, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA 
bdrankin@berkeley.edu.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Calgary, 2500 University 
Drive, Calgary, Canada AB T2N 1N4.
(3)Department of Anatomy, Western University of Health Sciences, 309 E. Second 
Street, Pomona, CA 91766, USA.
(4)Museum of Paleontology, University of California, 1101 Valley Life Sciences 
Building, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA.

Species selection, covariation of species' traits with their net diversification 
rates, is an important component of macroevolution. Most studies have relied on 
indirect evidence for its operation and have not quantified its strength 
relative to other macroevolutionary forces. We use an extension of the Price 
equation to quantify the mechanisms of body size macroevolution in mammals from 
the latest Palaeocene and earliest Eocene of the Bighorn and Clarks Fork Basins 
of Wyoming. Dwarfing of mammalian taxa across the Palaeocene/Eocene Thermal 
Maximum (PETM), an intense, brief warming event that occurred at approximately 
56 Ma, has been suggested to reflect anagenetic change and the immigration of 
small bodied-mammals, but might also be attributable to species selection. Using 
previously reconstructed ancestor-descendant relationships, we partitioned 
change in mean mammalian body size into three distinct mechanisms: species 
selection operating on resident mammals, anagenetic change within resident 
mammalian lineages and change due to immigrants. The remarkable decrease in mean 
body size across the warming event occurred through anagenetic change and 
immigration. Species selection also was strong across the PETM but, 
intriguingly, favoured larger-bodied species, implying some unknown mechanism(s) 
by which warming events affect macroevolution.

© 2015 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2015.1097
PMCID: PMC4528525
PMID: 26224712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Bone Joint J. 2015 Aug;97-B(8):1082-9. doi: 10.1302/0301-620X.97B8.35234.

Cost effectiveness of treatment with percutaneous Kirschner wires versus volar 
locking plate for adult patients with a dorsally displaced fracture of the 
distal radius: analysis from the DRAFFT trial.

Tubeuf S(1), Yu G(1), Achten J(2), Parsons NR(3), Rangan A(4), Lamb SE(5), Costa 
ML(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Leeds, 101 Clarendon Road, Leeds LS6 9LJ, UK.
(2)University of Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital, Headley Way, Oxford, OX3 9DU, 
UK.
(3)University of Warwick, Gibbet Hill Road, Coventry CV4 7AL, UK.
(4)The James Cook University Hospital, Marton Road, Middlesbrough TS4 3BW, UK.
(5)University of Oxford, Windmill Road, Headington Oxford, OX3 7LD, UK.

Comment in
    Bone Joint J. 2015 Aug;97-B(8):1015-6.

We present an economic evaluation using data from the Distal Radius Acute 
Fracture Fixation Trial (DRAFFT) to compare the relative cost effectiveness of 
percutaneous Kirschner wire (K-wire) fixation and volar locking-plate fixation 
for patients with dorsally-displaced fractures of the distal radius. The cost 
effectiveness analysis (cost per quality-adjusted life year; QALY) was derived 
from a multi-centre, two-arm, parallel group, assessor-blind, randomised 
controlled trial which took place in 18 trauma centres in the United Kingdom. 
Data from 460 patients were available for analysis, which includes both a 
National Health Service cost perspective including costs of surgery, implants 
and healthcare resource use over a 12-month period after surgery, and a societal 
perspective, which includes the cost of time off work and the need for 
additional private care. There was only a small difference in QALYs gained for 
patients treated with locking-plate fixation over those treated with K-wires. At 
a mean additional cost of £714 (95% confidence interval 588 to 865) per patient, 
locking-plate fixation presented an incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
of £89,322 per QALY within the first 12 months of treatment. Sensitivity 
analyses were undertaken to assess the ICER of locking-plate fixation compared 
with K-wires. These were greater than £30,000. Compared with locking-plate 
fixation, K-wire fixation is a 'cost saving' intervention, with similar health 
benefits.

©2015 The British Editorial Society of Bone & Joint Surgery.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.97B8.35234
PMID: 26224825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. J Radioanal Nucl Chem. 2014;299(2):913-931. doi: 10.1007/s10967-013-2652-2.
Epub  2013 Nov 19.

Target preparation for research with charged projectiles.

Stolarz A(1).

Author information:
(1)Heavy Ion Laboratory, University of Warsaw, ul. Pasteura 5a, 02-093 Warszawa, 
Poland.

The paper reviews in a compact format the techniques most frequently used for 
target preparation, such as rolling, powder compacting, and vacuum deposition. 
The survey covers also the techniques used for target characterisation 
(thickness, purity) and problems related to the extension of target life-time 
and time of uninterrupted experiments with use of targets.

DOI: 10.1007/s10967-013-2652-2
PMCID: PMC4514011
PMID: 26224956


298. World J Cardiol. 2015 Jul 26;7(7):404-9. doi: 10.4330/wjc.v7.i7.404.

Cholesterol confusion and statin controversy.

DuBroff R(1), de Lorgeril M(1).

Author information:
(1)Robert DuBroff, Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, University of 
New Mexico School of Medicine, MSC 10-5550, 1 University of New Mexico, 
Albuquerque, NM 87131, United States.

The role of blood cholesterol levels in coronary heart disease (CHD) and the 
true effect of cholesterol-lowering statin drugs are debatable. In particular, 
whether statins actually decrease cardiac mortality and increase life expectancy 
is controversial. Concurrently, the Mediterranean diet model has been shown to 
prolong life and reduce the risk of diabetes, cancer, and CHD. We herein review 
current data related to both statins and the Mediterranean diet. We conclude 
that the expectation that CHD could be prevented or eliminated by simply 
reducing cholesterol appears unfounded. On the contrary, we should acknowledge 
the inconsistencies of the cholesterol theory and recognize the proven benefits 
of a healthy lifestyle incorporating a Mediterranean diet to prevent CHD.

DOI: 10.4330/wjc.v7.i7.404
PMCID: PMC4513492
PMID: 26225201


299. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2015;16(13):5137-41. doi: 
10.7314/apjcp.2015.16.13.5137.

Epidemiology of Prostate Cancer.

Bashir MN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics and Epidemiology, Govt. Municipal College, 
Faisalabad, Pakistan E-mail : naeembashir7@gmail.com.

Prostate cancer is the most common malignancy among males worldwide, and is the 
second leading cause of cancer death among men in United States. According to 
GLOBOCAN (2012), an estimated 1.1 million new cases and 307,000 deaths were 
reported in 2012. The reasons for the increase of this disease are not known, 
but increasing life expectancy and modified diagnostic techniques have been 
suggested as causes. The established risk factors for this disease are advancing 
age, race, positive family history of prostate cancer and western diet (use of 
fat items). Several other risk factors, such as obesity, physical activity, 
sexual activity, smoking and occupation have been also associated with prostate 
cancer risk, but their roles in prostate cancer etiology remain uncertain. This 
mini-review aims to provide risk factors, disease knowledge, prevalence and 
awareness about prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2015.16.13.5137
PMID: 26225642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Prev Chronic Dis. 2015 Jul 30;12:E120. doi: 10.5888/pcd12.140413.

Economic Evaluation of a Tai Ji Quan Intervention to Reduce Falls in People With 
Parkinson Disease, Oregon, 2008-2011.

Li F(1), Harmer P(2).

Author information:
(1)Oregon Research Institute, 1776 Millrace Dr, Eugene, OR 97403. Email: 
fuzhongl@ori.org.
(2)Willamette University, Salem, Oregon.

INTRODUCTION: Exercise is effective in reducing falls in people with Parkinson 
disease. However, information on the cost effectiveness of this approach is 
lacking. We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis of Tai Ji Quan for reducing 
falls among patients with mild-to-moderate Parkinson disease.
METHODS: We used data from a previous intervention trial to analyze resource use 
costs related to intervention delivery and number of falls observed during a 
9-month study period. Cost effectiveness was estimated via incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) in which Tai Ji Quan was compared with 2 
alternative interventions (Resistance training and Stretching) on the primary 
outcome of per fall prevented and the secondary outcome of per participant 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gained. We also conducted subgroup and 
sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Tai Ji Quan was more effective than either Resistance training or 
Stretching; it had the lowest cost and was the most effective in improving 
primary and secondary outcomes. Compared with Stretching, Tai Ji Quan cost an 
average of $175 less for each additional fall prevented and produced a 
substantial improvement in QALY gained at a lower cost. Results from subgroup 
and sensitivity analyses showed no variation in cost-effectiveness estimates. 
However, sensitivity analyses demonstrated a much lower ICER ($27) when only 
intervention costs were considered.
CONCLUSION: Tai Ji Quan represents a cost-effective strategy for optimizing 
spending to prevent falls and maximize health gains in people with Parkinson 
disease. While these results are promising, they warrant further validation.

DOI: 10.5888/pcd12.140413
PMCID: PMC4523116
PMID: 26226067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. JAMA Oncol. 2015 Sep;1(6):807-13. doi: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2015.2472.

Cost-effectiveness of Lung Cancer Screening in Canada.

Goffin JR(1), Flanagan WM(2), Miller AB(3), Fitzgerald NR(4), Memon S(4), 
Wolfson MC(5), Evans WK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Statistics Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(4)Canadian Partnership Against Cancer, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Department of Epidemiology and Community Medicine, University of Ottawa, 
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2016 Jan 5;315(1):77-8.
    JAMA Oncol. 2016 Feb;2(2):277-8.
    JAMA Oncol. 2016 Feb;2(2):278-9.

IMPORTANCE: The US National Lung Screening Trial supports screening for lung 
cancer among smokers using low-dose computed tomographic (LDCT) scans. The 
cost-effectiveness of screening in a publically funded health care system 
remains a concern.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of LDCT scan screening for lung 
cancer within the Canadian health care system.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: The Cancer Risk Management Model (CRMM) 
simulated individual lives within the Canadian population from 2014 to 2034, 
incorporating cancer risk, disease management, outcome, and cost data. Smokers 
and former smokers eligible for lung cancer screening (30 pack-year smoking 
history, ages 55-74 years, for the reference scenario) were modeled, and 
performance parameters were calibrated to the National Lung Screening Trial 
(NLST). The reference screening scenario assumes annual scans to age 75 years, 
60% participation by 10 years, 70% adherence to screening, and unchanged smoking 
rates. The CRMM outputs are aggregated, and costs (2008 Canadian dollars) and 
life-years are discounted 3% annually.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.
RESULTS: Compared with no screening, the reference scenario saved 51,000 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) and had an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio of CaD $52,000/QALY. If smoking history is modeled for 20 or 40 
pack-years, incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of CaD $62,000 and CaD 
$43,000/QALY, respectively, were generated. Changes in participation rates 
altered life years saved but not the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, while 
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio is sensitive to changes in adherence. 
An adjunct smoking cessation program improving the quit rate by 22.5% improves 
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio to CaD $24,000/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Lung cancer screening with LDCT appears 
cost-effective in the publicly funded Canadian health care system. An adjunct 
smoking cessation program has the potential to improve outcomes.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2015.2472
PMID: 26226181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 30;10(7):e0133581. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133581. 
eCollection 2015.

Spatial Scales of Genetic Structure in Free-Standing and Strangler Figs (Ficus, 
Moraceae) Inhabiting Neotropical Forests.

Heer K(1), Kalko EK(2), Albrecht L(3), García-Villacorta R(4), Staeps FC(5), 
Herre EA(6), Dick CW(7).

Author information:
(1)Conservation Biology, Faculty of Biology, Philipps-University Marburg, 
