on published literature. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
were performed to account for parameter uncertainties.
RESULTS: Strategy 1 dominated all remaining strategies. Compared to no testing, 
it resulted in only marginal QALY increases (0.0002) but a cost reduction of 
€580 per patient. Strategy 2 resulted in the same health gains but increased 
costs by €10 773. In the probabilistic analysis, genotyping and dose reduction 
was the optimal strategy in approximately 100% of simulations at a threshold of 
€50 000 per QALY. Deterministic sensitivity analysis shows that uncertainty for 
this strategy originated primarily from costs for irinotecan-based chemotherapy, 
from the prevalence of neutropenia among heterozygous patients, and from whether 
dose reduction is applied to both homozygotes and heterozygotes or only to the 
former.
CONCLUSION: This model-based synthesis of the most recent evidence suggests that 
pharmacogenetic UGT1A1 testing prior to irinotecan-based chemotherapy dominates 
non-personalized colon cancer care in Germany. However, as structural 
uncertainty remains high, these results require validation in clinical practice, 
e.g. based on a managed-entry agreement.

DOI: 10.3109/0284186X.2015.1053983
PMID: 26098842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. J Mech Behav Biomed Mater. 2015 Oct;50:33-42. doi:
10.1016/j.jmbbm.2015.06.002.  Epub 2015 Jun 10.

Mechanical characterization and validation of poly (methyl methacrylate)/multi 
walled carbon nanotube composite for the polycentric knee joint.

Arun S(1), Kanagaraj S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology 
Guwahati, Guwahati 781039, Assam, India.
(2)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology 
Guwahati, Guwahati 781039, Assam, India. Electronic address: 
kanagaraj@iitg.ernet.in.

Trans femoral amputation is one of the most uncomfortable surgeries in patient׳s 
life, where the prosthesis consisting of a socket, knee joint, pylon and foot is 
used to do the walking activities. The artificial prosthetic knee joint imitates 
the functions of human knee to achieve the flexion-extension for the above knee 
amputee. The objective of present work is to develop a light weight composite 
material for the knee joint to reduce the metabolic cost of an amputee. Hence, 
an attempt was made to study the mechanical properties of multi walled carbon 
nanotubes (MWCNT) reinforced Poly (methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) prepared through 
melt mixing technique and optimize the concentration of reinforcement. The PMMA 
nanocomposites were prepared by reinforcing 0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.25, 0.3 and 0.4 wt% 
of MWCNT using injection moulding machine via twin screw extruder. It is 
observed that the tensile and flexural strength of PMMA, which were studied as 
per ASTM D638 and D790, respectively, were increased by 32.9% and 26.3% till 
0.25 wt% reinforcement of MWCNT. The experimental results of strength and 
modulus were compared with theoretical prediction, where a good correlation was 
noted. It is concluded that the mechanical properties of PMMA were found to be 
increased to maximum at 0.25 wt% reinforcement of MWCNT, where the Pukanszky 
model and modified Halpin-Tsai model are suggested to predict the strength and 
modulus, respectively, of the PMMA/MWCNT composite, which can be opted as a 
suitable materiel for the development of polycentric knee joint.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmbbm.2015.06.002
PMID: 26099200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Endocr Connect. 2015 Sep;4(3):R37-45. doi: 10.1530/EC-15-0044. Epub 2015 Jun
22.

Update on strategies limiting iatrogenic hypoglycemia.

Bonaventura A(1), Montecucco F(2), Dallegri F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal MedicineFirst Clinic of Internal Medicine, University 
of Genoa School of Medicine, IRCCS Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria San Martino 
- IST Istituto Nazionale per la Ricerca sul Cancro, Genoa, ItalyDivision of 
CardiologyFoundation for Medical Researches, Department of Medical Specialties, 
University of Geneva, Geneva, SwitzerlandDivision of Laboratory 
MedicineDepartment of Genetics and Laboratory Medicine, Geneva University 
Hospitals, 4 rue Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil, Avenue de la Roseraie 64, 1205 Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(2)Department of Internal MedicineFirst Clinic of Internal Medicine, University 
of Genoa School of Medicine, IRCCS Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria San Martino 
- IST Istituto Nazionale per la Ricerca sul Cancro, Genoa, ItalyDivision of 
CardiologyFoundation for Medical Researches, Department of Medical Specialties, 
University of Geneva, Geneva, SwitzerlandDivision of Laboratory 
MedicineDepartment of Genetics and Laboratory Medicine, Geneva University 
Hospitals, 4 rue Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil, Avenue de la Roseraie 64, 1205 Geneva, 
Switzerland Department of Internal MedicineFirst Clinic of Internal Medicine, 
University of Genoa School of Medicine, IRCCS Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria 
San Martino - IST Istituto Nazionale per la Ricerca sul Cancro, Genoa, 
ItalyDivision of CardiologyFoundation for Medical Researches, Department of 
Medical Specialties, University of Geneva, Geneva, SwitzerlandDivision of 
Laboratory MedicineDepartment of Genetics and Laboratory Medicine, Geneva 
University Hospitals, 4 rue Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil, Avenue de la Roseraie 64, 
1205 Geneva, Switzerland Department of Internal MedicineFirst Clinic of Internal 
Medicine, University of Genoa School of Medicine, IRCCS Azienda Ospedaliera 
Universitaria San Martino - IST Istituto Nazionale per la Ricerca sul Cancro, 
Genoa, ItalyDivision of CardiologyFoundation for Medical Researches, Department 
of Medical Specialties, University of Geneva, Geneva, SwitzerlandDivision of 
Laboratory MedicineDepartment of Genetics and Laboratory Medicine, Geneva 
University Hospitals, 4 rue Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil, Avenue de la Roseraie 64, 
1205 Geneva, Switzerland fabrizio.montecucco@unige.ch.

The prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is increasing all over the 
world. Targeting good glycemic control is fundamental to avoid the complications 
of diabetes linked to hyperglycemia. This narrative review is based on material 
searched for and obtained via PubMed up to April 2015. The search terms we used 
were: 'hypoglycemia, diabetes, complications' in combination with 'iatrogenic, 
treatment, symptoms.' Serious complications might occur from an inappropriate 
treatment of hyperglycemia. The most frequent complication is iatrogenic 
hypoglycemia that is often associated with autonomic and neuroglycopenic 
symptoms. Furthermore, hypoglycemia causes acute cardiovascular effects, which 
may explain some of the typical symptoms: ischemia, QT prolongation, and 
arrhythmia. With regards to the latter, the night represents a dangerous period 
because of the major increase in arrhythmias and the prolonged period of 
hypoglycemia; indeed, sleep has been shown to blunt the sympatho-adrenal 
response to hypoglycemia. Two main strategies have been implemented to reduce 
these effects: monitoring blood glucose values and individualized HbA1c goals. 
Several drugs for the treatment of T2DM are currently available and different 
combinations have been recommended to achieve individualized glycemic targets, 
considering age, comorbidities, disease duration, and life expectancy. In 
conclusion, according to international guidelines, hypoglycemia-avoiding therapy 
must reach an individualized glycemic goal, which is the lowest HbA1c not 
causing severe hypoglycemia and preserving awareness of hypoglycemia.

© 2015 The authors.

DOI: 10.1530/EC-15-0044
PMCID: PMC4512278
PMID: 26099256


953. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2015 Aug;99(16):6775-89. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-015-6728-5. Epub 2015 Jun 23.

Transcriptional remodeling in response to transfer upon carbon-limited or 
metformin-supplemented media in S. cerevisiae and its effect on chronological 
life span.

Borklu-Yucel E(1), Eraslan S, Ulgen KO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Bogazici University, Bebek, Istanbul, 
Turkey, esra.yucel1@boun.edu.tr.

One of the factors affecting chronological life span (CLS) in budding yeast is 
nutrient, especially carbon limitation. Aside from metabolites in the growth 
medium such as glucose, amino acids, and acetic acid, many pharmaceuticals have 
also been proven to alter CLS. Besides their impact on life span, these drugs 
are also prospective chemicals to treat the age-associated diseases, so the 
identification of their action mechanism and their potential side effects is of 
crucial importance. In this study, the effects of caloric restriction and 
metformin, a dietary mimetic pharmaceutical, on yeast CLS are compared. 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells grown in synthetic dextrose complete (SDC) up to 
mid-exponential phase were either treated with metformin or were subjected to 
glucose limitation. The impacts of these perturbations were analyzed via 
transcriptomics, and the common (stimulation of glucose uptake, induction of 
mitochondrial maintenance, and reduction of protein translation) and divergent 
(stimulation of aerobic respiration and reprogramming of respiratory electron 
transport chain (ETC)) cellular responses specific to each treatment were 
determined. These results revealed that both glucose limitation and metformin 
treatment stimulate CLS extension and involve the mitochondrial function, 
probably by creating an efficient mitochondria-to-nucleus signaling of either 
aerobic respiration or ETC signaling stimulation, respectively.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-015-6728-5
PMID: 26099330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Reprod Biomed Online. 2015 Aug;31(2):132-3. doi: 10.1016/j.rbmo.2015.05.010.
 Epub 2015 May 22.

Forever young? The ethical challenges of using ovarian tissue transplants to 
treat menopause.

Patrizio P(1), Caplan AL(2).

Author information:
(1)Yale School of Medicine, Yale Fertility Center and Yale Center for Bioethics, 
New Haven, CT, USA. Electronic address: pasquale.patrizio@yale.edu.
(2)NYU Langone Medical Center, Division of Medical Ethics, New York, NY, USA.

Comment on
    Reprod Biomed Online. 2015 Aug;31(2):128-31.

Life expectancy statistics predict that in a couple of decades women will enjoy 
a mean life of 90 years. Assuming a median age for the onset of menopause of 51, 
women will spend about 40 years in menopause. Harvesting and freezing ovarian 
cortical tissue at a younger age to permit future transplantation for postponing 
menopause and its sequelae could become a possible option. However, both medical 
and ethical issues need to be addressed before this can be offered as a 
treatment for menopause.

Copyright © 2015 Reproductive Healthcare Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rbmo.2015.05.010
PMID: 26099441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Reprod Biomed Online. 2015 Aug;31(2):128-31. doi:
10.1016/j.rbmo.2015.05.002.  Epub 2015 May 14.

Novel use of the ovarian follicular pool to postpone menopause and delay 
osteoporosis.

Andersen CY(1), Kristensen SG(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Reproductive Biology, Juliane Marie Centre for Women, Children 
and Reproduction, University Hospital of Copenhagen, Faculty of Health Science, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. Electronic address: yding@rh.dk.
(2)Laboratory of Reproductive Biology, Juliane Marie Centre for Women, Children 
and Reproduction, University Hospital of Copenhagen, Faculty of Health Science, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Comment in
    Reprod Biomed Online. 2015 Aug;31(2):132-3.
    Reprod Biomed Online. 2015 Dec;31(6):827.
    Reprod Biomed Online. 2015 Dec;31(6):828.

Life expectancy has increased by more than 30 years during the last century and 
continues to increase. Many women already live decades in menopause deprived of 
naturally produced oestradiol and progesterone, leading to an increasing 
incidence of menopause-related disorders such as osteoporosis, cardiovascular 
diseases and lack of general well-being. Exogenous oestradiol has traditionally 
been used to alleviate menopause-related effects. This commentary discusses a 
radical new method to postpone menopause. Part of the enormous surplus of 
ovarian follicles can now be cryostored in youth for use after menopause. 
Excision of ovarian tissue will advance menopause marginally and will not reduce 
natural fertility. Grafted tissue restores ovarian function with circulating 
concentrations of sex steroids for years in post-menopausal cancer survivors. 
Future developments may further utilize the enormous store of ovarian follicles. 
Currently, the main goal of ovarian cryopreservation is fertility preservation, 
but grafting of ovarian tissue may also serve endocrine functions as a 
physiological solution to prevent the massive medical legacy of osteoporosis and 
menopause-related conditions in the ageing population. This intriguing solution 
is now technically available; the question is whether this method qualifies for 
postponing menopause, perhaps initially for those patients who already have 
cryostored tissue?

Copyright © 2015 Reproductive Healthcare Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rbmo.2015.05.002
PMID: 26099442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. J R Army Med Corps. 2016 Aug;162(4):302-4. doi: 10.1136/jramc-2015-000428.
Epub  2015 Jun 21.

A missed diagnosis of advanced HIV.

Mason A(1), Dufty N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Military Medicine, Royal Centre for Defence Medicine, 
Birmingham, UK.
(2)Department of Sexual Health, Directorate of Infection Birmingham Heartlands 
Hospital, Birmingham, UK Military Advice and Sexual Health/HIV service (MASHH), 
Royal Centre for Defence Medicine, Birmingham, UK.

HIV is now a manageable chronic condition with a near-normal life expectancy if 
diagnosed early. Treatment can be a simple 'one tablet, once a day' regimen with 
minimal side effects or interactions with other medication. Unfortunately, 
healthcare professionals' perception of risk of HIV infection is often incorrect 
and patients remain undiagnosed because healthcare professionals assume that 
their patients are not at risk of HIV. This report demonstrates a case of missed 
HIV diagnosis in the military primary care setting and its consequences because 
of incorrect assumption rather than presenting clinical conditions.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/jramc-2015-000428
PMID: 26099685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. J Theor Biol. 2015 Sep 7;380:550-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2015.06.018. Epub
2015  Jun 20.

Distributed transit compartments for arbitrary lifespan distributions in aging 
populations.

Koch G(1), Schropp J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, State University of New York at 
Buffalo, 403 Kapoor Hall, Buffalo, NY 14214, USA; Pediatric Pharmacology and 
Pharmacometrics Research Center, University of Basel, Children׳s Hospital 
(UKBB), Spitalstrasse 33, 4056 Basel, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
gilbert.koch@web.de.
(2)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Konstanz, PO Box 195, 
78457 Konstanz, Germany.

Transit compartment models (TCM) are often used to describe aging populations 
where every individual has its own lifespan. However, in the TCM approach these 
lifespans are gamma-distributed which is a serious limitation because often the 
Weibull or more complex distributions are realistic. Therefore, we extend the 
TCM concept to approximately describe any lifespan distribution and call this 
generalized concept distributed transit compartment models (DTCMs). The validity 
of DTCMs is obtained by convergence investigations. From the mechanistic 
perspective the transit rates are directly controlled by the lifespan 
distribution. Further, DTCMs could be used to approximate the convolution of a 
signal with a probability density function. As example a stimulatory effect of a 
drug in an aging population with a Weibull-distributed lifespan is presented 
where distribution and model parameters are estimated based on simulated data.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2015.06.018
PMID: 26100181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Pharmacoeconomics. 2015 Dec;33(12):1281-8. doi: 10.1007/s40273-015-0308-5.

Cost-Value Analysis and the SAVE: A Work in Progress, But an Option for 
Localised Decision Making?

Karnon J(1), Partington A(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Adelaide, Level 7, 178 North 
Terrace, Adelaide, SA, 5005, Australia. jonathan.karnon@adelaide.edu.au.
(2)School of Population Health, University of Adelaide, Level 7, 178 North 
Terrace, Adelaide, SA, 5005, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Cost-value analysis aims to address the limitations of the 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) by incorporating the strength of public 
concerns for fairness in the allocation of scarce health care resources. To 
date, the measurement of value has focused on equity weights to reflect societal 
preferences for the allocation of QALY gains. Another approach is to use a 
non-QALY-based measure of value, such as an outcome 'equivalent to saving the 
life of a young person' (a SAVE).
OBJECTIVE: This paper assesses the feasibility and validity of using the SAVE as 
a measure of value for the economic evaluation of health care technologies.
METHODS: A web-based person trade-off (PTO) survey was designed and implemented 
to estimate equivalent SAVEs for outcome events associated with the progression 
and treatment of early-stage breast cancer. The estimated equivalent SAVEs were 
applied to the outputs of an existing decision analytic model for early breast 
cancer.
RESULTS: The web-based PTO survey was undertaken by 1094 respondents. Validation 
tests showed that 68 % of eligible responses revealed consistent ordering of 
responses and 32 % displayed ordinal transitivity, while 37 % of respondents 
showing consistency and ordinal transitivity approached cardinal transitivity. 
Using consistent and ordinally transitive responses, the mean incremental cost 
per SAVE gained was £ 3.72 million.
CONCLUSION: Further research is required to improve the validity of the SAVE, 
which may include a simpler web-based survey format or a face-to-face format to 
facilitate more informed responses. A validated method for estimating equivalent 
SAVEs is unlikely to replace the QALY as the globally preferred measure of 
outcome, but the SAVE may provide a useful alternative for localized decision 
makers with relatively small, constrained budgets-for example, in programme 
budgeting and marginal analysis.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-015-0308-5
PMID: 26100285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Can J Surg. 2015 Jun;58(3 Suppl 3):S108-17. doi: 10.1503/cjs.015814.

Blunt splenic injury and severe brain injury: a decision analysis and 
implications for care.

Alabbasi T(1), Nathens AB(1), Tien H(2).

Author information:
(1)The Department of Surgery, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, Ont.
(2)The Canadian Forces Health Services, the 1 Canadian Field Hospital, Petawawa, 
Ont., the Trauma Services and the Department of Surgery, Sunnybrook Health 
Sciences Centre, Toronto, Ont.

BACKGROUND: The initial nonoperative management (NOM) of blunt splenic injuries 
in hemodynamically stable patients is common. In soldiers who experience blunt 
splenic injuries with concomitant severe brain injury while on deployment, 
however, NOM may put the injured soldier at risk for secondary brain injury from 
prolonged hypotension.
METHODS: We conducted a decision analysis using a Markov process to evaluate 2 
strategies for managing hemodynamically stable patients with blunt splenic 
injuries and severe brain injury--immediate splenectomy and NOM--in the setting 
of a field hospital with surgical capability but no angiography capabilities. We 
considered the base case of a 40-year-old man with a life expectancy of 78 years 
who experienced blunt trauma resulting in a severe traumatic brain injury and an 
isolated splenic injury with an estimated failure rate of NOM of 19.6%. The 
primary outcome measured was life expectancy. We assumed that failure of NOM 
would occur in the setting of a prolonged casualty evacuation, where surgical 
capability was not present.
RESULTS: Immediate splenectomy was the slightly more effective strategy, 
resulting in a very modest increase in overall survival compared with NOM. 
Immediate splenectomy yielded a survival benefit of only 0.4 years over NOM.
CONCLUSION: In terms of overall survival, we would not recommend splenectomy 
unless the estimated failure rate of NOM exceeded 20%, which corresponds to an 
American Association for the Surgery of Trauma grade III splenic injury. For 
military patients for whom angiography may not be available at the field 
hospital and who require prolonged evacuation, immediate splenectomy should be 
considered for grade III-V injuries in the presence of severe brain injury.

Publisher: CONTEXTE: La gestion non chirurgicale (GNC) initiale des traumatismes 
spléniques fermés chez les patients hémodynamiquement stables est fréquente. 
Toutefois, dans les cas de traumatismes spléniques fermés accompagnés de graves 
lésions cérébrales concomitantes durant leur déploiement, la GNC peut exposer 
les soldats blessés à un risque de lésion cérébrale secondaire par suite d’une 
hypotension prolongée.
MÉTHODES: Nous avons appliqué un modèle de Markov à l’analyse décisionnelle pour 
évaluer 2 stratégies de prise en charge des patients hémodynamiquement stables 
porteurs de traumatismes spléniques fermés et de graves lésions cérébrales, soit 
la splénectomie immédiate et la GNC, dans le contexte d’un hôpital de campagne 
doté d’installations chirurgicales mais non d’installations angiographiques. 
Nous avons étudié le scénario de référence d’un homme de 40 ans ayant une 
espérance de vie de 78 ans, victime d’un traumatisme fermé entraînant une lésion 
cérébrale grave et un traumatisme splénique isolé, avec un taux estimé d’échec 
de la GNC de 19,6 %. Le principal paramètre mesuré était l’espérance de vie. 
Nous avons présumé que l’échec de la GNC surviendrait dans le contexte d’une 
évacuation prolongée des blessés en l’absence d’installations chirurgicales.
RÉSULTANTS: La splénectomie immédiate s’est révélée être une stratégie 
légèrement plus efficace, entraînant une augmentation très modeste de la survie 
globale comparativement à la GNC. La splénectomie immédiate a produit un 
avantage de 0,4 an seulement au plan de la survie par rapport à la GNC.
CONCLUSION: Au plan de la survie globale, nous ne recommanderions pas la 
splénectomie, à moins que le taux d’échec estimé de la GNC n’excède 20 %, ce qui 
correspond à un traumatisme splénique de grade III selon l’American Association 
for the Surgery of Trauma. Pour le personnel militaire blessé chez qui il est 
impossible de procéder à une angiographie dans un hôpital de campagne, et qui 
requiert une évacuation prolongée, il faut envisager une splénectomie immédiate 
pour les traumatisme de grade III V en présence de graves lésions cérébrales.

DOI: 10.1503/cjs.015814
PMCID: PMC4467501
PMID: 26100770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Mol Endocrinol. 2015 Aug;29(8):1107-13. doi: 10.1210/me.2015-1074. Epub 2015
Jun  23.

Minireview: The Complexities of IGF/Insulin Signaling in Aging: Why Flies and 
Worms Are Not Humans.

Sell C(1).

Author information:
(1)Drexel University College of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19102.

A remarkable plasticity in life span has been uncovered in recent years, 
offering hope that the basic mechanisms of aging and interventions that delay 
aging may be identified in the coming decades. Life span extension has been 
achieved by genetic manipulation in multiple organisms including Sarcomyces 
cervisae, Caenorhabditis elegans, and Drosophila melanogaster, resulting in more 
than a doubling of life span in some cases. Typically, a reduction in function 
has been the most effective approach to extending life span, and a reduction in 
the insulin/IGF-1 signaling pathway appears to provide the most robust increase 
in life span. This highly conserved pathway integrates growth/survival signals 
with nutrient status. In mammals, it comprises part of the neuroendocrine axis, 
a critical regulator of growth and development. Reduced functionality of the 
neuroendocrine axis itself promotes life span extension in mammals; however, 
reduced activity of the IGF-1 signaling pathway specifically leads to less 
robust increases in life span. This review examines the differences in the 
insulin/IGF-1 axis between invertebrate and mammalian systems and discusses 
implications of these differences in terms of life span modulation.

DOI: 10.1210/me.2015-1074
PMCID: PMC4518000
PMID: 26102060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Cancer. 2015 Oct 1;121(19):3372-9. doi: 10.1002/cncr.29512. Epub 2015 Jun
23.

Are high drug prices for hematologic malignancies justified? A critical 
analysis.

Chhatwal J(1), Mathisen M(2), Kantarjian H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research, The University of Texas MD Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(2)Epocrates Medical Information, AthenaHealth, San Francisco, California.
(3)Department of Leukemia, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas.

Comment in
    Cancer. 2015 Nov 15;121(22):4098-9.
    Cancer. 2015 Nov 15;121(22):4097-8.

In the past 15 years, treatment outcomes for hematologic malignancies have 
improved substantially. However, drug prices have also increased drastically. 
This commentary examines the value of the treatment of hematologic malignancies 
at current prices in the United States through a reanalysis of a systematic 
review evaluating 29 studies of 9 treatments for 4 hematologic malignancies. 
Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated on the basis of 
drug prices in the United States in 2014. Sixty-three percent of the studies (15 
of 24) had ICERs higher than $50,000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY), the 
benchmark widely used by health economists to define cost-effectiveness. In 
studies evaluating the current standard-of-care treatments for chronic myeloid 
leukemia, the ICERs for tyrosine kinase inhibitors versus hydroxyurea or 
interferon ranged from $210,000 to $426,000/QALY. The lower ICER values were 
mostly obtained from 11 studies evaluating rituximab, which was approved by the 
Food and Drug Administration in 1997 (ICER range, $37,000-$69,000/QALY). In 
conclusion, the costs of the majority of new treatments for hematologic cancers 
are too high to be deemed cost-effective in the United States.

© 2015 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.29512
PMID: 26102457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Eur J Pharmacol. 2015 Sep 5;762:443-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2015.06.037.
Epub  2015 Jun 20.

Ursolic acid enhances pentobarbital-induced sleeping behaviors via GABAergic 
neurotransmission in mice.

Jeon SJ(1), Park HJ(2), Gao Q(3), Pena IJ(4), Park SJ(3), Lee HE(3), Woo H(3), 
Kim HJ(4), Cheong JH(4), Hong E(5), Ryu JH(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life and Nanopharmaceutical Science, College of Pharmacy, Kyung 
Hee University, Kyunghee-daero 26, Dongdaemoon-Ku, Seoul 130-701, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Department of Oriental Pharmaceutical Science, College of Pharmacy, Kyung Hee 
University, Kyunghee-daero 26, Dongdaemoon-Ku, Seoul 130-701, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Life and Nanopharmaceutical Science, College of Pharmacy, Kyung 
Hee University, Kyunghee-daero 26, Dongdaemoon-Ku, Seoul 130-701, Republic of 
Korea; Kyung Hee East-West Pharmaceutical Research Institute, College of 
Pharmacy, Kyung Hee University, Kyunghee-daero 26, Dongdaemoon-Ku, Seoul 
130-701, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Sahmyook University, Seoul 139-742, Republic of 
Korea.
(5)Natraceutical & Functional Foods Center, CJ Foods R&D, Seoul 152-051, 
Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Life and Nanopharmaceutical Science, College of Pharmacy, Kyung 
Hee University, Kyunghee-daero 26, Dongdaemoon-Ku, Seoul 130-701, Republic of 
Korea; Department of Oriental Pharmaceutical Science, College of Pharmacy, Kyung 
Hee University, Kyunghee-daero 26, Dongdaemoon-Ku, Seoul 130-701, Republic of 
Korea; Kyung Hee East-West Pharmaceutical Research Institute, College of 
Pharmacy, Kyung Hee University, Kyunghee-daero 26, Dongdaemoon-Ku, Seoul 
130-701, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: jhryu63@khu.ac.kr.

Prunella vulgaris is widely used as a herbal medicine for cancers, inflammatory 
diseases, and other infections. Although it has long been used, few studies have 
examined its effects on central nervous system function. Here, we first observed 
that ethanolic extracts of P. vulgaris (EEPV) prolonged pentobarbital-induced 
sleep duration in mice. It is known that EEPV consists of many active components 
including triterpenoid (ursolic acid and oleanolic acid), which have many 
biological activities. Therefore, we evaluated which EEPV components induced 
sleep extension in pentobarbital-mediated sleeping model in mice. Surprisingly, 
despite their structural similarity and other common functions such as 
anti-inflammation, anti-cancer, and tissue protection, only ursolic acid 
enhanced sleep duration in pentobarbital-treated mice. These results were 
attenuated by bicuculline treatment, which is a GABAA receptor antagonist. The 
present results suggest that ursolic acid from P. vulgaris enhances sleep 
duration through GABAA receptor activation and could be a therapeutic candidate 
for insomnia treatment.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2015.06.037
PMID: 26102564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2015 Aug;42(4):441-51. doi: 10.1111/apt.13294. Epub
2015  Jun 24.

Efficacy and safety of anti-TNF therapy in elderly patients with inflammatory 
bowel disease.

Lobatón T(1), Ferrante M(1), Rutgeerts P(1), Ballet V(1), Van Assche G(1), 
Vermeire S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, University Hospital Gasthuisberg, Leuven, 
Belgium.

BACKGROUND: The general increased life expectancy is reflected in the age of 
patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The knowledge about efficacy and 
safety of anti-tumour necrosis factor (TNF) therapy in elderly is scarce and 
conflicting.
AIM: To assess the efficacy and safety of anti-TNF therapy in elderly patients 
taking into account eventual comorbidity.
METHODS: Observational and retrospective single-centred study where 66 IBD 
patients initiating anti-TNF treatment at age ≥65 years (cases: ≥65 anti-TNF) 
were compared with 112 IBD patients initiating anti-TNF <65 years (controls <65 
anti-TNF) and 61 anti-TNF naïve IBD patients treated with immunosuppressants 
(IMS) and/or corticosteroids (CS) ≥65 years (controls ≥65 IMS/CS). Controls were 
matched to cases for IBD type, follow-up, disease duration and anti-TNF type. 
Comorbidity was assessed by using the Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI). Both 
efficacy and safety of treatment were adjusted for comorbidity.
RESULTS: The short-term clinical response to anti-TNF at 10 weeks was 
significantly lower in cases: ≥65 anti-TNF (68% vs. 89%; P < 0.001), whereas at 
≥6 months, differences were not significant (79.5% vs. 82.8%; P = 0.639). The 
risk for any severe adverse events was higher in cases: ≥65 anti-TNF than in 
controls <65 anti-TNF (RR = 4.7; P < 0.001) or controls ≥65 IMS/CS (RR = 3.09; P 
= 0.0008). Age older than 65 and CCI > 0 were independent risk factors for 
malignancy and mortality regardless of the medication.
CONCLUSION: Elderly patients treated with anti-TNF have a lower rate of 
short-term clinical response and a higher rate of severe adverse events than the 
younger patients under the same treatment.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.13294
PMID: 26104047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Eur J Endocrinol. 2015 Sep;173(3):367-75. doi: 10.1530/EJE-15-0454. Epub
2015  Jun 23.

A cost-effectiveness comparison between early surgery and non-surgical approach 
for incidental papillary thyroid microcarcinoma.

Lang BH(1), Wong CK(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrine SurgeryDepartment of Surgery, Queen Mary Hospital, 
University of Hong Kong, 102 Pokfulam Road, Pokfulam, Hong Kong SAR, 
ChinaDepartment of Family Medicine and Primary Care3/F Ap Lei Chau Clinic, 
University of Hong Kong, 161 Main Street, Ap Lei Chau, Hong Kong, China 
blang@hku.hk.
(2)Division of Endocrine SurgeryDepartment of Surgery, Queen Mary Hospital, 
University of Hong Kong, 102 Pokfulam Road, Pokfulam, Hong Kong SAR, 
ChinaDepartment of Family Medicine and Primary Care3/F Ap Lei Chau Clinic, 
University of Hong Kong, 161 Main Street, Ap Lei Chau, Hong Kong, China.

BACKGROUND: The issue of whether all incidental papillary thyroid microcarcinoma 
(PTMC) should be managed by early surgery (ES) has been questioned and there is 
a growing acceptance that a non-surgical approach (NSA) might be more 
appropriate. We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis comparing the two 
strategies in managing incidental PTMC.
METHODS: Our base case was a hypothetical 40-year-old female diagnosed with a 
unifocal intra-thyroidal 9 mm PTMC. The PTMC was considered suitable for either 
strategy. A Markov decision tree model was constructed to compare the estimated 
cost-effectiveness between ES and NSA after 20 years. Outcome probabilities, 
utilities and costs were derived from the literature. The threshold for 
cost-effectiveness was set at USD 50,000/quality-adjusted life year (QALY). A 
further analysis was done for patients < 40 and ≥ 40 years. Sensitivity and 
threshold analyses were used to examine model uncertainty.
RESULTS: Each patient who adopted NSA over ES cost an extra USD 682.54 but 
gained an additional 0.260 QALY. NSA was cost saving (i.e. less costly and more 
effective) up to 16 years from diagnosis and remained cost-effective from 17 
years onward. In the sensitivity analysis, NSA remained cost-effective 
regardless of patient age (< 40 and ≥ 40 years), complications, rates of 
progression, year cycle and discount rate. In the threshold analysis, none of 
the scenarios that could have changed the conclusion appeared clinically likely.
CONCLUSIONS: For a selected group of incidental PTMC, adopting NSA was not only 
cost saving in the initial 16 years but also remained cost effective thereafter. 
This was irrespective of patient age, complication rate or rate of PTMC 
progression.

© 2015 European Society of Endocrinology.

DOI: 10.1530/EJE-15-0454
PMID: 26104754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Pregnancy Hypertens. 2014 Oct;4(4):264-70. doi:
10.1016/j.preghy.2014.06.002.  Epub 2014 Jun 21.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of cardiovascular risk factor screening in women who 
experienced hypertensive pregnancy disorders at term.

van Baaren GJ(1), Hermes W(2), Franx A(3), van Pampus MG(4), Bloemenkamp KW(5), 
van der Post JA(6), Porath M(7), Ponjee GA(8), Tamsma JT(9), Mol BW(10), Opmeer 
BC(11), de Groot CJ(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Academic Medical Center, 1105 DE 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: g.j.vanbaaren@amc.uva.nl.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical Center Haaglanden, Lijnbaan 
32, 2512 VA The Hague, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
herwie@mchaaglanden.nl.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Medical Center Utrecht, 
Heidelberglaan 100, 3584 CX Utrecht, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
a.franx-2@umcutrecht.nl.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, The Onze Lieve Vrouwe Gasthuis 
(OLVG) Hospital, Oosterpark 9, 1091 AC Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic 
address: m.g.vanpampus@olvg.nl.
(5)Department of Obstetrics, Leiden University Medical Center, Albinusdreef 2, 
2333 ZA Leiden, The Netherlands. Electronic address: k.w.m.bloemenkamp@lumc.nl.
(6)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Academic Medical Center, 1105 DE 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: j.a.vanderpost@amc.uva.nl.
(7)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Máxima Medical Center, De Run 4600, 
5504 DB Veldhoven, The Netherlands. Electronic address: m.porath@mmc.nl.
(8)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Medical Center Haaglanden, Lijnbaan 32, 
2512 VA The Hague, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
g.ponjee@mchaaglanden.nl.
(9)Section of Vascular Medicine, Department of Endocrinology and Internal 
Medicine, Leiden University Medical Center, Albinusdreef 2, 2333 ZA Leiden, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: j.t.tamsma@lumc.nl.
(10)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, The Robinson Institute, School of 
Paediatrics and Reproductive Health, University of Adelaide, Australia. 
Electronic address: ben.mol@adelaide.edu.au.
(11)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, 
Academic Medical Center, 1105 DE Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
b.c.opmeer@amc.uva.nl.
(12)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, VU University Medical Center, De 
Boelelaan 1117, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
cdegroot@me.com.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost-effectiveness of post-partum screening on 
cardiovascular risk factors and subsequent treatment in women with a history of 
gestational hypertension or pre-eclampsia at term.
STUDY DESIGN: Two separate Markov models evaluated the cost-effectiveness 
analysis of hypertension (HT) screening and screening on metabolic syndrome 
(MetS), respectively, as compared to current practice in women with a history of 
term hypertensive pregnancy disorders. Analyses were performed from the Dutch 
health care perspective, using a lifetime horizon. One-way sensitivity analyses 
and Monte Carlo simulation evaluated the robustness of the results.
RESULTS: Both screening on HT and MetS in women with a history of gestational 
hypertension or pre-eclampsia resulted in increase in life expectancy (HT 
screening 0.23year (95% CI -0.06 to 0.54); MetS screening 0.14years (95% CI 
-0.16 to 0.45)). The gain in QALYs was limited, with HT screening and MetS 
screening generating 0.04 QALYs (95% CI -0.12 to 0.20) and 0.03 QALYs (95% CI 
-0.14 to 0.19), resulting in costs to gain one QALY of €4228 and €28,148, 
respectively. Analyses for uncertainty showed a chance of 74% and 75%, 
respectively, that post-partum screening is cost-effective at a threshold of 
€60,000/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: According to the available knowledge post-partum screening on 
cardiovascular risk factors and subsequent treatment in women with a history of 
gestational hypertension or pre-eclampsia at term is likely to be 
cost-effective.

Copyright © 2014 International Society for the Study of Hypertension in 
Pregnancy. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preghy.2014.06.002
PMID: 26104815


966. J Cell Biochem. 2016 Jan;117(1):230-8. doi: 10.1002/jcb.25269.

Heat Shock Protein 90 Regulates Subcellular Localization of Smads in Mv1Lu 
Cells.

Lee J(1), An YS(1), Kim MR(1), Kim YA(1), Lee JK(2), Hwang CS(3), Chung E(4), 
Park IC(5), Yi JY(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Radiation Effects, Korea Institute of Radiation and Medical 
Sciences, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Radiation Blood Specimen Biobank, Korea Institute of Radiation and Medical 
Sciences, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Human Resource Biobank, Cheil General Hospital, Catholic Kwandong University, 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Genetic Engineering, College of Life Science, Kyung Hee 
University, Yongin, Gyeonggi-do, Korea.
(5)Division of Radiation Cancer Research, Korea Institute of Radiation and 
Medical Sciences, Seoul, Korea.

Heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) regulates the stability of various proteins and 
plays an essential role in cellular homeostasis. Many client proteins of HSP90 
are involved in cell growth, survival, and migration; processes that are 
generally accepted as participants in tumorigenesis. HSP90 is also up-regulated 
in certain tumors. Indeed, the inhibition of HSP90 is known to be effective in 
cancer treatment. Recently, studies showed that HSP90 regulates transforming 
growth factor β1 (TGF-β1)-induced transcription by increasing the stability of 
the TGF-β receptor. TGF-β signaling also has been implicated in cancer, 
suggesting the possibility that TGF-β1 and HSP90 function cooperatively during 
the cancer cell progression. Here in this paper, we investigated the role of 
HSP90 in TGF-β1-stimulated Mv1Lu cells. Treatment of Mv1Lu cells with the HSP90 
inhibitor, 17-allylamino-demethoxy-geldanamycin (17AAG), or transfection with 
truncated HSP90 (ΔHSP90) significantly reduced TGF-β1-induced cell migration. 
Pretreatment with 17AAG or transfection with ΔHSP90 also reduced the levels of 
phosphorylated Smad2 and Smad3. In addition, the HSP90 inhibition interfered the 
nuclear localization of Smads induced by constitutively active Smad2 (S2EE) or 
Smad3 (S3EE). We also found that the HSP90 inhibition decreased the protein 
level of importin-β1 which is known to regulate R-Smad nuclear translocation. 
These data clearly demonstrate a novel function of HSP90; HSP90 modulates TGF-β 
signaling by regulating Smads localization. Overall, our data could provide a 
detailed mechanism linking HSP90 and TGF-β signaling. The extension of our 
understanding of HSP90 would offer a better strategy for treating cancer.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcb.25269
PMID: 26104915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Support Care Cancer. 2016 Feb;24(2):523-528. doi: 10.1007/s00520-015-2793-7.
 Epub 2015 Jun 24.

KPS/LDH index: a simple tool for identifying patients with metastatic melanoma 
who are unlikely to benefit from palliative whole brain radiotherapy.

Partl R(1), Fastner G(2), Kaiser J(2), Kronhuber E(3), Cetin-Strohmer K(3), 
Steffal C(4), Böhmer-Breitfelder B(5), Mayer J(5), Avian A(6), Berghold A(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology, Medical University Graz, 
Comprehensive Cancer Center Graz, Auenbruggerplatz 32, 8036, Graz, Austria. 
richard.partl@medunigraz.at.
(2)Department of Radiotherapy and Radio-Oncology, Landeskrankenhaus Salzburg, 
Paracelsus Medical University, Salzburg, 5020, Austria.
(3)Institute of Radiooncology, General Hospital, Wr. Neustadt, Vienna, 2700, 
Austria.
(4)Institute of Radiooncology, Kaiser-Franz-Josef-Spital, Vienna, 1100, Austria.
(5)Department of Radiooncology, Krems Hospital, Vienna, 3530, Austria.
(6)Institute for Medical Informatics, Statistics and Documentation, Medical 
University of Graz, Comprehensive Cancer Center Graz, Graz, 8036, Austria.

PURPOSE: Low Karnofsky performance status (KPS) and elevated lactate 
dehydrogenases (LDHs) as a surrogate marker for tumor load and cell turnover may 
depict patients with a very short life expectancy. To validate this finding and 
compare it to other indices, namely, the recursive partitioning analysis (RPA) 
and diagnosis-specific graded prognostic assessment (DS-GPA), a multicenter 
analysis was undertaken.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of 234 metastatic melanoma patients uniformly 
treated with palliative whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) was done. Univariate and 
multivariate analyses were used to determine the impact of patient-, tumor-, and 
treatment-related parameters on overall survival (OS).
RESULTS: KPS and LDH emerged as independent factors predicting OS. By combining 
KPS and LDH values (KPS/LDH index), groups of patients with statistically 
significant differences in median OS (days; 95 % CI) after onset of WBRT were 
identified: group 1 (KPS ≥ 70/normal LDH) 234 (96-372), group 2 (KPS ≥ 
70/elevated LDH) 112 (69-155), group 3 (KPS <70/normal LDH) 43 (12-74), and 
group 4 (KPS <70/elevated LDH) 29 (17-41). Between all four groups, 
statistically significant differences were observed. The RPA and DS-GPA indices 
failed to distinguish significantly between good and moderate prognosis and were 
inferior in predicting a very unfavorable prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS: The parameters KPS and LDH independently impacted on OS. The 
combination of both (KPS/LDH index) identified patients with a very short life 
expectancy, who might be better served by recommending best supportive care 
instead of WBRT. The KPS/LDH index is simple and effective in terms of time and 
cost as compared to other prognostic indices.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-015-2793-7
PMID: 26105515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. J Oncol Pract. 2015 Nov;11(6):429-34. doi: 10.1200/JOP.2014.003046. Epub
2015  Jun 23.

Changes in Medication Management After a Diagnosis of Cancer Among Medicare 
Beneficiaries With Diabetes.

Stuart BC(1), Davidoff AJ(2), Erten MZ(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland School of Pharmacy, Peter Lamy Center on Drug Therapy 
and Aging, Baltimore, MD; Yale University School of Public Health, New Haven, 
CT; and University of Vermont College of Medicine, Global Health Economics Unit, 
Center for Clinical and Translational Science, Burlington, VT 
bstuart@rx.umaryland.edu.
(2)University of Maryland School of Pharmacy, Peter Lamy Center on Drug Therapy 
and Aging, Baltimore, MD; Yale University School of Public Health, New Haven, 
CT; and University of Vermont College of Medicine, Global Health Economics Unit, 
Center for Clinical and Translational Science, Burlington, VT.

PURPOSE: A new cancer diagnosis commonly initiates a cascade of health care 
decisions that have potentially important consequences for management of other 
chronic conditions such as diabetes. We sought to determine whether a new cancer 
diagnosis is associated with changes in medication adherence among Medicare 
beneficiaries with diabetes, and whether the relationship is affected by life 
expectancy and generosity of drug coverage.
METHODS: The study population was drawn from a 5% random sample of Medicare 
beneficiaries with diabetes enrolled in Medicare Part D in 2007 and 2008. 
Patients had cancer newly diagnosed between January and December 2007 (n = 
4,348) and were compared with a cancer-free control group (N = 28,507) assigned 
a pseudo-diagnosis date. Adherence (proportion of days covered [PDC]) with oral 
hypoglycemic agents, renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system inhibitors, and 
statins was tracked for 6 months before and after the diagnosis date. 
Multivariable regression models assessed the independent impact of a cancer 
diagnosis, life expectancy (proxy measure: died 7 to 12 months after index 
date), and coverage generosity (proxy measure: low-income subsidy recipient) on 
PDC, controlling for individual characteristics.
RESULTS: Relatively larger declines in medication adherence (3 to 5 percentage 
points; P < .001) were observed overall for patients with cancer versus 
controls. Short life expectancy was associated with between 8% and 11% lower PDC 
(P < .001) in the cancer subgroup relative to controls. Low-income subsidy 
status had no differential effect on changes in drug adherence.
CONCLUSION: A cancer diagnosis among patients with diabetes reduced adherence 
with evidence-based medications, particularly if patients' life expectancy was 
short.

Copyright © 2015 by American Society of Clinical Oncology.

DOI: 10.1200/JOP.2014.003046
PMID: 26105669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Eur J Public Health. 2016 Feb;26(1):192-8. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckv109. Epub
2015  Jun 23.

Prevalence and burden of osteoarthritis amongst older people in Ireland: 
findings from The Irish LongituDinal Study on Ageing (TILDA).

French HP(1), Galvin R(2), Horgan NF(3), Kenny RA(4).

Author information:
(1)1 School of Physiotherapy, Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI), 123 
St. Stephen's Green, Dublin 2, Republic of Ireland hfrench@rcsi.ie.
(2)2 Department of Clinical Therapies, University of Limerick, Castletroy, 
Limerick, Republic of Ireland.
(3)1 School of Physiotherapy, Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI), 123 
St. Stephen's Green, Dublin 2, Republic of Ireland.
(4)3 The Irish Longitudinal Study on Ageing, Chemistry Extension, Trinity 
College Dublin (TCD), Dublin 2, Ireland.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the prevalence of osteoarthritis (OA) in a population 
aged ≥50 years in Ireland, and to determine its relationship with demographic 
and health-related variables.
METHODS: Cross-sectional data from Wave 1 of The Irish Longitudinal Study on 
Ageing (TILDA), a population-based study of 8175 people aged ≥50 years were 
analyzed. Logistic regression was used to determine associations between the 
presence of OA and a range of demographic and health-related variables.
RESULTS: A total of 8175 people ≥50 years in Ireland were identified from the 
TILDA database of whom 45.7% (n = 2941) were male and 54.3% (n = 4431) were 
female. The overall prevalence of OA was 12.9% (women-17.3%; men-9.4%). 
Prevalence increased with age, with prevalence in those aged ≥ 80 years twice 
that [17.7%; 95% confidence interval (CI) 13.97, 21.54] of those aged 50-60 
years (8.23, 95% CI 7.32, 9.13). On multivariable analysis, OA was significantly 
associated (P < 0.02) with female gender, older age, pain severity, higher body 
mass index (BMI), fear of falling, greater number of physical limitations and 
medication use. In particular, there was a strong association between the use of 
NSAIDS and the presence of OA [adj odd ratio (OR) = 5.88, 95% CI 4.16, 8.31]. A 
significant association was also found between OA and increasing number of 
chronic diseases (adj OR = 2.75 9, 95% CI = 2.44, 3.09).
CONCLUSIONS: OA is a common and multifaceted condition, with comparable 
prevalence of self-reported OA in Ireland with similar populations. Assessment 
and management should focus on potentially modifiable factors such as BMI, pain, 
physical limitations, polypharmacy and fear of falling. More research is 
required to understand the complex inter-relationships between these and other 
risk-associated variables.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Public Health Association. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckv109
PMID: 26105959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. J Insect Sci. 2015 Jun 23;15(1):76. doi: 10.1093/jisesa/iev061. Print 2015.

Adult Behavior of Tirumala limniace (Lepidoptera: Danaidae).

Li C(1), Wang F(1), Chen X(2), Zhou C(3), Yao J(4).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute of Resources Insects, Chinese Academy of Forestry, Key 
laboratory of Cultivating and Utilization of Resources Insects of State Forestry 
Administration, Kunming 650224, Yunnan, China Research Institute of Resources 
Insects, Chinese Academy of Forestry, Key laboratory of Cultivating and 
Utilization of Resources Insects of State Forestry Administration, Kunming 
650224, Yunnan, China.
(2)Research Institute of Resources Insects, Chinese Academy of Forestry, Key 
laboratory of Cultivating and Utilization of Resources Insects of State Forestry 
Administration, Kunming 650224, Yunnan, China cafcxm@139.com.
(3)Research Institute of Resources Insects, Chinese Academy of Forestry, Key 
laboratory of Cultivating and Utilization of Resources Insects of State Forestry 
Administration, Kunming 650224, Yunnan, China.
(4)The Center of Butterfly Research and Development, Research Institute of 
Resources Insects, Chinese Academy of Forestry, Kunming 650224, Yunnan, China.

Tirumala limniace Cramer as an ornamental butterfly is utilized in butterfly 
garden, in this article we study their adult activities include flight, 
foraging, courtship, mating, and oviposition. We found that males spent 22.1% of 
its time flying, 14.1% foraging, 63.8% in courtship and mating. And females 
spent 30.8% of its time flying, 10.1% foraging, 57.1% in courtship and mating, 
and 2% ovipositing. Adults emerged from pupae when temperatures were above 
23.5°C and eclosion took only ∼1 min, typically followed by a small amount of 
flight on the first day. Flight activity peaked from the ninth to the thirteenth 
day after eclosion, and there were two daily peak flight times: 10:00-13:00 and 
15:00-18:00. The peak of flower-visiting activity was from the eighth to the 
thirteenth day after eclosion, and there were two daily peak foraging times: 
11:00-12:00 and 16:00-17:00. Flight and foraging frequency and time were 
positively correlated and both were closely related to temperature, with very 
little flight or foraging below 18°C and an increase at temperatures above 22°C. 
Courtship and mating took place on the sixth day after eclosion, while 
oviposition occurred the following day. Oviposition occurred over 8 d, and the 
shortest time of a single oviposition was 2 s. The average life expectancy of 
males was 16.5 d, while that of females was 15 d.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Entomological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/jisesa/iev061
PMCID: PMC4535579
PMID: 26106088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Singapore Med J. 2015 Jun;56(6):e110-1. doi: 10.11622/smedj.2015097.

Ellis-van Creveld syndrome in adulthood: extending the clinical spectrum.

Pérez-Andreu J(1), Ray VG(1), Arribas JM(1), Sánchez SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Surgery Service, Virgen de la Arrixaca University Hospital, 
Murcia, Spain.

Ellis-van Creveld (EvC) syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive malformation 
disorder. Cardiac defects are observed in about 50% of EvC cases. Surgical data 
is lacking on the prognosis and life expectancy of EvC patients. Herein, we 
report the case of a 38-year-old man with EvC syndrome who underwent two 
surgical corrections for cardiac anomalies. This report supplements the 
available information on the clinical course of EvC syndrome in older patients.

DOI: 10.11622/smedj.2015097
PMCID: PMC4469864
PMID: 26106249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Clin Colon Rectal Surg. 2014 Dec;27(4):140-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1394155.
