811. Front Behav Neurosci. 2015 Sep 1;9:230. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2015.00230. 
eCollection 2015.

Roles of octopamine and dopamine in appetitive and aversive memory acquisition 
studied in olfactory conditioning of maxillary palpi extension response in 
crickets.

Matsumoto Y(1), Matsumoto CS(2), Wakuda R(2), Ichihara S(2), Mizunami M(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Science, Hokkaido University Sapporo, Japan ; Faculty of Liberal 
Arts, Tokyo Medical and Dental University Ichikawa, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Life Science, Hokkaido University Sapporo, Japan.
(3)Faculty of Science, Hokkaido University Sapporo, Japan.

Elucidation of reinforcing mechanisms for associative learning is an important 
subject in neuroscience. Based on results of our previous pharmacological 
studies in crickets, we suggested that octopamine and dopamine mediate reward 
and punishment signals, respectively, in associative learning. In fruit-flies, 
however, it was concluded that dopamine mediates both appetitive and aversive 
reinforcement, which differs from our suggestion in crickets. In our previous 
studies, the effect of conditioning was tested at 30 min after training or 
later, due to limitations of our experimental procedures, and thus the 
possibility that octopamine and dopamine were not needed for initial acquisition 
of learning was not ruled out. In this study we first established a conditioning 
procedure to enable us to evaluate acquisition performance in crickets. Crickets 
extended their maxillary palpi and vigorously swung them when they perceived 
some odors, and we found that crickets that received pairing of an odor with 
water reward or sodium chloride punishment exhibited an increase or decrease in 
percentages of maxillary palpi extension responses to the odor. Using this 
procedure, we found that octopamine and dopamine receptor antagonists impair 
acquisition of appetitive and aversive learning, respectively. This finding 
suggests that neurotransmitters mediating appetitive reinforcement differ in 
crickets and fruit-flies.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2015.00230
PMCID: PMC4555048
PMID: 26388749


812. Curr Cardiovasc Risk Rep. 2010 Sep 1;4(5):340-346. doi: 
10.1007/s12170-010-0114-8.

Calorie restriction for optimal cardiovascular aging: the weight of evidence.

Marzetti E(1), Wohlgemuth SE(2), Aulisa AG(3), Bernabei R(4), Pahor M(2), 
Leeuwenburgh C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Aging and Geriatric Research, Institute on Aging, Division of 
Biology of Aging, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32610-0143, USA ; 
Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology, Institute of Orthopedics, Catholic 
University of the Sacred Heart, Rome, 00168, Italy.
(2)Department of Aging and Geriatric Research, Institute on Aging, Division of 
Biology of Aging, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32610-0143, USA.
(3)Department of Orthopedics, Children's Hospital Bambino Gesù, Institute of 
Scientific Research, Rome, 00165, Italy.
(4)Department of Geriatrics, Gerontology and Physiatrics, Catholic University of 
the Sacred Heart, Rome, 00168, Italy.

The epidemic of obesity and overweight is spreading worldwide. Excessive 
adiposity is associated with a myriad of adverse health outcomes, leading to 
increased healthcare expenditures and shortened life expectancy. In contrast to 
overeating, calorie restriction (CR), defined as a reduction in food intake 
without malnutrition, increases both mean and maximum lifespan in a variety of 
species by reducing the incidence of several chronic degenerative diseases, 
including cardiovascular disease. The constellation of health benefits brought 
about by CR results from biological and physiological changes affecting 
fundamental processes underlying aging and age-related pathologies. Despite the 
beneficial properties of CR, it is likely that most people will not engage in 
such a dietary regimen for the long-term. Supplementation with specific 
compounds mimicking CR may represent a more feasible means to improve health and 
prolong life. However, evidence on long-term effectiveness and safety of these 
compounds is not yet available in humans.

DOI: 10.1007/s12170-010-0114-8
PMCID: PMC4573497
PMID: 26388964


813. Psychotherapy (Chic). 2016 Dec;53(4):433-445. doi: 10.1037/pst0000032. Epub
2015  Sep 21.

Comparative study of group treatments for posttraumatic stress disorder.

Maxwell K(1), Callahan JL(1), Holtz P(1), Janis BM(1), Gerber MM(1), Connor 
DR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology.

Presented herein is a comparative study of group treatments for posttraumatic 
stress disorder (PTSD). In this study, an emerging intervention, memory 
specificity training (MeST), was compared with cognitive processing therapy 
(CPT) using standardized outcome measures of target symptoms (i.e., anxiety and 
depression from client perspective; memory specificity from independent rater 
perspective) and global functioning (independent rater perspective), as well as 
a process measure of expectancy (client perspective). Clients were assessed on 3 
separate occasions: at baseline, posttreatment, and 3 months posttreatment. 
Adherence and treatment fidelity (independent rater perspective) were monitored 
throughout the course of both treatment conditions. Improvement in PTSD 
symptoms, depressive symptoms, and global functioning were similar between MeST 
and CPT; an increase in ability to specify memories upon retrieval was also 
similar between MeST and CPT. Positive reliable change was observed in both 
groups on all outcome measures. With respect to the primary target of PTSD 
symptoms, 88% of participants in both treatment groups moved into the functional 
distribution by posttreatment and maintained these gains at follow-up. Notably, 
compared with CPT, MeST required only half the dosage (i.e., number of sessions) 
to accomplish these gains. Illustrative vignettes from client-therapist 
exchanges are provided, and results are discussed in terms of the potential 
mechanisms of action. Implications for both clinical practice and clinical 
research are also included. (PsycINFO Database Record

(c) 2016 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/pst0000032
PMID: 26390014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. J Med Econ. 2016;19(1):1-10. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2015.1078340. Epub 2015
Sep  21.

Indirect comparison and cost-utility of dabigatran etexilate and rivaroxaban in 
the treatment and extended anticoagulation of venous thromboembolism in a UK 
setting.

Jugrin AV(1), Hösel V(2), Ustyugova A(3), De Francesco M(1), Lamotte M(1), 
Sunderland T(4).

Author information:
(1)a a IMS HEOR , Vilvoorde , Belgium.
(2)b b StatSciConsult , Munich , Germany.
(3)c c Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH , Ingelheim am Rhein , Germany.
(4)d d Boehringer Ingelheim Ltd , Bracknell , UK.

BACKGROUND: Acute venous thromboembolism (VTE), including deep vein thrombosis 
(DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), is traditionally managed with a short course 
of parenteral anticoagulation followed by 3-6 months of a vitamin-K antagonist. 
Non-vitamin K oral anticoagulants (NOACs) do not require routine monitoring and 
dose adjustment, thus potentially provide an alternative treatment option.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Because of the lack of head-to-head clinical studies, an 
indirect comparison was conducted of dabigatran etexilate and rivaroxaban based 
on the respective phase III clinical trial. The derived relative safety and 
efficacy estimates were used to evaluate the cost-utility of dabigatran compared 
with rivaroxaban in the treatment and secondary prevention of VTE. The results 
of the indirect comparison showed no significant difference between dabigatran 
and rivaroxaban in avoiding recurrent VTE following index PE, index DVT, or 
DVT/PE combined, in treatment and extended anticoagulation. Dabigatran has 
significantly less major or clinically relevant bleeds (MCRBE) compared to 
rivaroxaban in treatment after index DVT and treatment after DVT or PE combined, 
but was not significantly different from rivaroxaban after index PE or in 
extended anticoagulation. In cost-utility deterministic analyses, dabigatran was 
projected dominant in all analyzed settings, given its marginally lower total 
cost and marginally higher QALYs gained compared to rivaroxaban. Probabilistic 
analyses results showed a high likelihood of dabigatran being considered good 
value for money in the UK, in treatment and in secondary prevention of VTE.
CONCLUSION: The cost-effectiveness evaluations showed that dabigatran can be 
considered the dominant treatment strategy compared to rivaroxaban in the 
patients' sub-groups considered, given the projected marginally higher clinical 
benefits and lower treatment costs.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2015.1078340
PMID: 26390231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. PLoS One. 2015 Sep 21;10(9):e0138818. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0138818. 
eCollection 2015.

Prevalence of Dementia and Cognitive Complaints in the Context of High Cognitive 
Reserve: A Population-Based Study.

Perquin M(1), Diederich N(2), Pastore J(1), Lair ML(1), Stranges S(1), Vaillant 
M(3); MemoVie Group.

Collaborators: Bisdorff A, Couffignal S, Dartigues JF, D'Incau M, Dondelinger R, 
Hoffmann D, Leners JC, Ludewig JL, Schuller AM, Thoma S, Ulbricht D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Health, Luxembourg Institute of Health (LIH), 
Strassen, Luxembourg.
(2)Department of Neurology, Centre Hospitalier de Luxembourg (CHL), Luxembourg, 
Luxembourg.
(3)Competence Center in Methodology and Statistics, Luxembourg Institute of 
Health (LIH), Strassen, Luxembourg.

OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to assess the prevalence of dementia and cognitive 
complaints in a cross-sectional sample of Luxembourg seniors, and to discuss the 
results in the societal context of high cognitive reserve resulting from 
multilingualism.
METHODS: A population sample of 1,377 people representative of Luxembourg 
residents aged over 64 years was initially identified via the national social 
insurance register. There were three different levels of contribution: full 
participation in the study, partial participation, and non-participation. We 
examined the profiles of these three different samples so that we could infer 
the prevalence estimates in the Luxembourgish senior population as a whole using 
the prevalence estimates obtained in this study.
RESULTS: After careful attention to the potential bias and of the possibility of 
underestimation, we considered the obtained prevalence estimates of 3.8% for 
dementia (with corresponding 95% confidence limits (CL) of 2.8% and 4.8%) and 
26.1% for cognitive complaints (CL = [17.8-34.3]) as trustworthy.
CONCLUSION: Based on these findings, we postulate that high cognitive reserve 
may result in surprisingly low prevalence estimates of cognitive complaints and 
dementia in adults over the age of 64 years, which thereby corroborates the 
longer disability-free life expectancy observed in the Luxembourg population. To 
the best of our knowledge, this study is the first to report such Luxembourgish 
public health data.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0138818
PMCID: PMC4577122
PMID: 26390288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


816. Kardiol Pol. 2015;73(9):730-9. doi: 10.5603/KP.a2015.0071.

Assessment of risk factors for mortality in patients with cardiovascular disease 
and a history of treatment for malignancy.

Rydzek J, Gąsior ZT(1), Dąbek J, Wojnar J, Skrzypek M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, SHS, Medical University of Silesia. 
zgasior@sum.edu.pl.

BACKGROUND: Patients with advanced cancer after radio- and/or chemotherapy are 
increasingly commonly hospitalised in cardiology units due to coexisting 
cardiovascular diseases (CVD). A rational assessment of mortality risk is an 
important part of patient preparation for invasive cardiac procedures. One 
disadvantage of cardiac risk scores is the fact that malignancies are not taken 
into account. At present, accurate estimation of life expectancy is possible in 
up to 20% of patients with an advanced malignancy.
AIM: To evaluate the effect of selected clinical parameters on survival of 
patients with CVD and coexisting lung or breast cancer after radio- and/or 
chemotherapy. An additional aim was to identify patients with a high probability 
of surviving a year in a good general clinical condition.
METHODS: The study group involved 326 subjects with established CVD and lung 
cancer (small-cell or non-small-cell) or breast cancer who were selected from 
the group of 7818 patients receiving palliative care in the Palium hospice in 
Czestochowa, Poland, in 2008-2012. The obtained data were collected in a 
database and subjected to a statistical analysis.
RESULTS: The strongest factors associated with an increased risk of death among 
patients with CVD and coexisting advanced lung or breast cancer after chemo- 
and/or radiotherapy were the type and stage of malignancy, functional status 
according to the ECOG classification, and the presence of cachexia. Other 
factors that had a significant effect on survival included higher severity of 
heart failure symptoms as evaluated by the New York Heart Association class, 
decreased left ventricular ejection fraction, presence of ischaemic heart 
disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, fasting hyperglycaemia, and the 
severity of fatigue, nausea, and pain. When the effects of drug treatment on 
survival were analysed, significantly increased survival was observed in 
patients treated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors while diuretic 
and glucocorticosteroid use was associated with decreased survival. Among the 
evaluated groups of patients with CVD and advanced malignancy after radio- 
and/or chemotherapy, the highest probability of surviving a year in a relatively 
good general clinical condition was noted in patients with stage 3 breast cancer 
without cachexia, ischaemic heart disease and persistent somatic symptoms who 
were treated with tamoxifen, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and 
megestrol acetate.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study that evaluated the combined effect of 
oncological and cardiovascular risk factors on survival of patients with CVD and 
coexisting cancer after radio- and/or chemotherapy treatment. When the three 
groups of cancer patients with different prognosis were compared, the study 
revealed varying effects of each factor depending on the underlying malignancy. 
The analysis confirmed the significance of the cumulative risk. The present 
study showed that malignancy-related prognostic factors are important in the 
context of cardiac evaluation and treatment of cancer patients. It also showed 
that further research is needed to clarify these issues.

DOI: 10.5603/KP.a2015.0071
PMID: 26390319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Curr Opin Pulm Med. 2015 Nov;21(6):617-25. doi:
10.1097/MCP.0000000000000212.

Drug interactions and treatment burden as survival improves.

Nichols DP(1), Kuk KN, Nick JA.

Author information:
(1)aDepartment of Pediatrics bDepartment of Medicine, National Jewish Health 
cDepartment of Pharmacy, St. Joseph Hospital SCL Health, Denver dDepartment of 
Medicine eDepartment of Pediatrics, University of Colorado Denver School of 
Medicine, Aurora, Colorado, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: With our growing understanding of the pathophysiology of 
cystic fibrosis, the pace of drug discovery is accelerating. Newer agents and 
therapies have traditionally been added to available medications, given the 
urgency in treating the disease. As the cystic fibrosis population ages, the 
number of associated comorbidities increases, requiring additional therapeutic 
approaches. Thus, while current management strategies have dramatically extended 
projected life expectancy, the treatment burden of the disease in adulthood has 
become onerous, and there is increasing concern over unintended effects and 
drug-drug interactions of new and existing therapies.
RECENT FINDINGS: A number of recent studies have sought to quantify the 
treatment burden of cystic fibrosis care, and to identify ways to reduce this 
burden. Mechanistic studies have identified the potential for a number of cystic 
fibrosis medications to impair the host response, or to interfere with the 
efficacy of other agents.
SUMMARY: As the cystic fibrosis formulary grows, a primary emphasis will be for 
providers to develop personalized treatment plans, with a goal to reduce 
unnecessary treatment burden and an awareness of potential unanticipated effects 
of medications.

DOI: 10.1097/MCP.0000000000000212
PMID: 26390336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Adv Gerontol. 2015;28(1):11-26.

[SOME RESULTS OF MOLECULAR GENETIC RESEARCHES OF AGING AND LONGEVITY].

[Article in Russian]

Mustafina OE, Somova RSh.

This review is devoted to the description of research achievements in genetics 
of aging and longevity. It represents a certain interest for understanding of a 
problems of aging as a whole. There is a huge amount of results of diverse 
genetic studies of aging and longevity. Studies were performed with using 
different experimental strategies on model organisms or samples from different 
human populations of the world. The search for aging and longevity genes was 
carried out within international consortiums. The first results of whole genome 
sequences of super-centenarians were received. The genes influencing life 
expectancy were revealed in organisms of different systematic groups. Many of 
these genes are evolutionarily conservative. Associations between APOE, FOXO1A, 
FOXO3A, AKT1 gene polymorphisms and human longevity were confirmed in 
independent studies.

PMID: 26390605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. BMC Public Health. 2015 Sep 21;15:932. doi: 10.1186/s12889-015-2287-z.

Quality of governance, public spending on health and health status in Sub 
Saharan Africa: a panel data regression analysis.

Makuta I(1)(2), O'Hare B(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Malawi, Chancellor College, Zomba, Malawi. 
makutainnocent@gmail.com.
(2)University of Malawi, The Polytechnic, Blantyre, Malawi. 
makutainnocent@gmail.com.
(3)School of Medicine, University of St Andrews, Fife, Scotland. 
bernadetteaohare@gmail.com.
(4)School of Public Health and Family Medicine, College of Medicine, University 
of Malawi, Blantyre, Malawi. bernadetteaohare@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The population in Sub Saharan Africa (SSA) suffers poor health as 
manifested in high mortality rates and low life expectancy. Economic growth has 
consistently been shown to be a major determinant of health outcomes. However, 
even with good economic growth rates, it is not possible to achieve desired 
improvements in health outcomes. Public spending on health (PSH) has long been 
viewed as a potential complement to economic growth in improving health. 
However, the relationship between PSH and health outcomes is inconclusive and 
this inconclusiveness may, in part, be explained by governance-related factors 
which mediate the impact of the former on the latter. Little empirical work has 
been done in this regard on SSA. This paper investigates whether or not the 
quality of governance (QoG) has a modifying effect on the impact of public 
health spending on health outcomes, measured by under-five mortality (U5M) and 
life expectancy at birth (LE), in SSA.
METHODS: Using two staged least squares regression technique on panel data from 
43 countries in SSA over the period 1996-2011, we estimated the effect of public 
spending on health and quality of governance U5M and LE, controlling for GDP per 
capita and other socio-economic factors. We also interacted PSH and QoG to find 
out if the latter has a modifying effect on the former's impact on U5M and LE.
RESULTS: Public spending on health has a statistically significant impact in 
improving health outcomes. Its direct elasticity with respect to under-five 
mortality is between -0.09 and -0.11 while its semi-elasticity with respect to 
life expectancy is between 0.35 and 0.60. Allowing for indirect effect of PSH 
spending via interaction with quality of governance, we find that an improvement 
in QoG enhances the overall impact of PSH. In countries with higher quality of 
governance, the overall elasticity of PSH with respect to under-five mortality 
is between -0.17 and -0.19 while in countries with lower quality of governance, 
it is about -0.09. The corresponding semi elasticities with respect to life 
expectancy are about 6 in countries with higher QoG and about 3 in countries 
with lower QoG.
DISCUSSION: Public spending on health improves health outcomes. Its impact is 
mediated by quality of governance, having the higher impact on health outcomes 
in countries with higher quality of governance and lower impact in countries 
with lower quality of governance. This may be due to increased efficiency in the 
use of available resources and better allocation of the same as QoG improves.
CONCLUSION: Improving QoG would improve health outcomes in SSA. The same 
increase in PSH is twice as effective in reducing U5M and increasing LE in 
countries with good QoG when compared with countries with poor QoG.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-015-2287-z
PMCID: PMC4578603
PMID: 26390867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2016;13(1):35-52. doi:
10.2174/1567205012666150921095505.

Cognitive Impairment, Neuroimaging, and Alzheimer Neuropathology in Mouse Models 
of Down Syndrome.

Hamlett ED, Boger HA, Ledreux A, Kelley CM, Mufson EJ, Falangola MF, Guilfoyle 
DN, Nixon RA, Patterson D, Duval N, Granholm AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department Neurosciences, Director, Center on Aging, Medical Univ. South 
Carolina, Basic Science Bldg, Room 403, 173 Ashley Avenue, Charleston, SC 29425, 
USA. Granholm@musc.edu.

Down syndrome (DS) is the most common non-lethal genetic condition that affects 
approximately 1 in 700 births in the United States of America. DS is 
characterized by complete or segmental chromosome 21 trisomy, which leads to 
variable intellectual disabilities, progressive memory loss, and accelerated 
neurodegeneration with age. During the last three decades, people with DS have 
experienced a doubling of life expectancy due to progress in treatment of 
medical comorbidities, which has allowed this population to reach the age when 
they develop early onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). Individuals with DS develop 
cognitive and pathological hallmarks of AD in their fourth or fifth decade, and 
are currently lacking successful prevention or treatment options for dementia. 
The profound memory deficits associated with DS-related AD (DS-AD) have been 
associated with degeneration of several neuronal populations, but mechanisms of 
neurodegeneration are largely unexplored. The most successful animal model for 
DS is the Ts65Dn mouse, but several new models have also been developed. In the 
current review, we discuss recent findings and potential treatment options for 
the management of memory loss and AD neuropathology in DS mouse models. We also 
review agerelated neuropathology, and recent findings from neuroimaging studies. 
The validation of appropriate DS mouse models that mimic neurodegeneration and 
memory loss in humans with DS can be valuable in the study of novel preventative 
and treatment interventions, and may be helpful in pinpointing gene-gene 
interactions as well as specific gene segments involved in neurodegeneration.

DOI: 10.2174/1567205012666150921095505
PMCID: PMC5034871
PMID: 26391050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) confirm that this article content 
has no conflicts of interest.


821. Schizophr Res. 2015 Dec;169(1-3):141-146. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2015.09.009.
 Epub 2015 Sep 19.

Cognitive performance, symptom severity, and survival among patients with 
schizophrenia spectrum disorder: A prospective 15-year study.

Helldin L(1), Hjärthag F(2), Olsson AK(3), Harvey PD(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, NU Health Care, Trollhättan, Sweden; Department of 
Psychology, Karlstad University, Karlstad, Sweden. Electronic address: 
lars.helldin@vgregion.se.
(2)Department of Psychology, Karlstad University, Karlstad, Sweden.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, NU Health Care, Trollhättan, Sweden; Department of 
Psychology, Karlstad University, Karlstad, Sweden.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, 
United States; Research Service, Bruce W. Carter VA Medical Center, Miami, FL, 
United States.

Patients with schizophrenia have an average lifespan approximately 20 years 
shorter than the normal population. This study explored if there were any 
specific common characteristics among patients with schizophrenia spectrum 
disorder who died prematurely, compared to those who survived or died at a more 
normative age. The data were obtained from an ongoing twenty-year longitudinal 
study wherein 67 patients out of 501 participants had died at an average age of 
60.5 years. Differences in baseline assessments of symptoms and cognitive 
ability were compared across patients who died during the time of the study and 
survivors. Symptom remission was assessed according to the Andreasen remission 
criteria as presented in 2005. Cognitive performance was assessed with a battery 
of instruments measuring vigilance, working memory, learning, short-term memory, 
and executive function. Two patients committed suicide and together they lowered 
the average lifespan of the study sample by only 0.27 years. The baseline 
assessments showed no difference in symptoms or remission status between 
patients who died and those who survived. This finding was in contrast to the 
cognitive baseline assessments where it was found that those who had died had 
performed more poorly in multiple domains, especially executive functioning, 
cognitive flexibility, learning and short-term memory. Survival analysis with 
Cox models showed that verbal memory and executive functioning were the most 
substantial independent predictors. Our study shows that although suicide was 
not a common cause of death, the average age of death is still young for this 
patient group and cannot be explained by differences in symptom severity. Our 
findings indicate that cognitive abilities might be of special interest for 
affective longevity in patients with schizophrenia, either as a marker of 
special risk or as a target for direct intervention.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2015.09.009
PMID: 26391285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Qual Life Res. 2016 Apr;25(4):891-911. doi: 10.1007/s11136-015-1116-2. Epub
2015  Sep 21.

Mapping the EORTC QLQ-C30 onto the EQ-5D-3L: assessing the external validity of 
existing mapping algorithms.

Doble B(1), Lorgelly P(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Monash Business School, Monash University, 15 
Innovation Walk, Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia. brett.doble@monash.edu.
(2)Centre for Health Economics, Monash Business School, Monash University, 15 
Innovation Walk, Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia.

PURPOSE: To determine the external validity of existing mapping algorithms for 
predicting EQ-5D-3L utility values from EORTC QLQ-C30 responses and to establish 
their generalizability in different types of cancer.
METHODS: A main analysis (pooled) sample of 3560 observations (1727 patients) 
and two disease severity patient samples (496 and 93 patients) with repeated 
observations over time from Cancer 2015 were used to validate the existing 
algorithms. Errors were calculated between observed and predicted EQ-5D-3L 
utility values using a single pooled sample and ten pooled tumour type-specific 
samples. Predictive accuracy was assessed using mean absolute error (MAE) and 
standardized root-mean-squared error (RMSE). The association between observed 
and predicted EQ-5D utility values and other covariates across the distribution 
was tested using quantile regression. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were 
calculated using observed and predicted values to test responsiveness.
RESULTS: Ten 'preferred' mapping algorithms were identified. Two algorithms 
estimated via response mapping and ordinary least-squares regression using dummy 
variables performed well on number of validation criteria, including accurate 
prediction of the best and worst QLQ-C30 health states, predicted values within 
the EQ-5D tariff range, relatively small MAEs and RMSEs, and minimal differences 
between estimated QALYs. Comparison of predictive accuracy across ten tumour 
type-specific samples highlighted that algorithms are relatively insensitive to 
grouping by tumour type and affected more by differences in disease severity.
CONCLUSIONS: Two of the 'preferred' mapping algorithms suggest more accurate 
predictions, but limitations exist. We recommend extensive scenario analyses if 
mapped utilities are used in cost-utility analyses.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-015-1116-2
PMID: 26391884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Nat Commun. 2015 Sep 22;6:8289. doi: 10.1038/ncomms9289.

Exometabolite niche partitioning among sympatric soil bacteria.

Baran R(1), Brodie EL(2)(3), Mayberry-Lewis J(1)(4), Hummel E(4), Da Rocha 
UN(2)(5), Chakraborty R(2), Bowen BP(1)(6), Karaoz U(2), Cadillo-Quiroz H(4), 
Garcia-Pichel F(4), Northen TR(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Environmental Genomics and Systems Biology Division, Lawrence Berkeley 
National Laboratory, 1 Cyclotron Rd, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(2)Climate and Ecosystems Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, 1 Cyclotron Rd, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(3)Department of Environmental Science, Policy and Management, University of 
California Berkeley, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(4)School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, 427 E Tyler Mall, Tempe, 
Arizona 85287, USA.
(5)Molecular Cell Physiology Department, Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences, VU 
Amsterdam, de Boelelaan 1085, 1081HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)DOE Joint Genome Institute, 2800 Mitchell Dr., Walnut Creek, California 
94598, USA.

Soils are arguably the most microbially diverse ecosystems. Physicochemical 
properties have been associated with the maintenance of this diversity. Yet, the 
role of microbial substrate specialization is largely unexplored since substrate 
utilization studies have focused on simple substrates, not the complex mixtures 
representative of the soil environment. Here we examine the exometabolite 
composition of desert biological soil crusts (biocrusts) and the substrate 
preferences of seven biocrust isolates. The biocrust's main primary producer 
releases a diverse array of metabolites, and isolates of physically associated 
taxa use unique subsets of the complex metabolite pool. Individual isolates use 
only 13-26% of available metabolites, with only 2 out of 470 used by all and 40% 
not used by any. An extension of this approach to a mesophilic soil environment 
also reveals high levels of microbial substrate specialization. These results 
suggest that exometabolite niche partitioning may be an important factor in the 
maintenance of microbial diversity.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms9289
PMCID: PMC4595634
PMID: 26392107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Int J Health Plann Manage. 2016 Oct;31(4):511-536. doi: 10.1002/hpm.2315.
Epub  2015 Sep 22.

Is globalization really good for public health?

Tausch A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Corvinus University of Budapest, Budapest, Hungary.
(2)Department of Political Science, Innsbruck University, Innsbruck, Austria.

OBJECTIVES: In the light of recent very prominent studies, especially that of 
Mukherjee and Krieckhaus (), one should be initially tempted to assume that 
nowadays globalization is a driver of a good public health performance in the 
entire world system. Most of these studies use time series analyses based on the 
KOF Index of Globalization. We attempt to re-analyze the entire question, using 
a variety of methodological approaches and data. Our re-analysis shows that 
neoliberal globalization has resulted in very important implosions of public 
health development in various regions of the world and in increasing inequality 
in the countries of the world system, which in turn negatively affect health 
performance.
DESIGN: We use standard ibm/spss ordinary least squares (OLS) regressions, time 
series and cross-correlation analyses based on aggregate, freely available data.
MAIN OUTCOMES: Different components of the KOF Index, most notably actual 
capital inflows, affect public health negatively. The "decomposition" of the 
available data suggests that for most of the time period of the last four 
decades, globalization inflows even implied an aggregate deterioration of public 
health, quite in line with globalization critical studies. We introduce the 
effects of inequality on public health, widely debated in global public health 
research. Our annual time series for 99 countries show that globalization indeed 
leads to increased inequality, and this, in turn, leads to a deteriorating 
public health performance. In only 19 of the surveyed 99 nations with complete 
data (i.e., 19.1%), globalization actually preceded an improvement in the public 
health performance. Far from falsifying globalization critical research, our 
analyses show the basic weaknesses of the new "pro-globalization" literature in 
the public health profession. Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hpm.2315
PMID: 26392240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Acta Neurol Scand. 2016 Jul;134(1):42-8. doi: 10.1111/ane.12509. Epub 2015
Sep  22.

Health outcomes and costs of ischemic stroke patients in Finland.

Puumalainen A(1), Numminen H(2), Elonheimo O(3), Roine RO(4), Sintonen H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(2)Department of Neurosciences and Rehabilitation, Tampere University Hospital, 
Tampere, Finland.
(3)Network of Academic Health Centres and Department of General Practice and 
Primary Health Care, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(4)Division of Clinical Neurosciences, Turku University Hospital, Turku, 
Finland.

OBJECTIVES: Stroke case fatality is decreasing over time. Less, however, is 
known about patients' health-related quality of life (HRQoL), quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs), and costs. We studied all these with two data sets collected 
in Finland 10 years apart.
METHODS: A total of 468 and 355 first-ever ischemic stroke patients were 
followed up 1 year in two studies (Study 1 in 1989-1991 and Study 2 in 
2001-2003). Case fatality, HRQoL measured by the 15D, QALYs, costs, and 
first-year cost/QALY were compared. Regression analysis was used to examine the 
effects of various factors on QALYs.
RESULTS: In the later study, the case fatality rates were lower and the mean 15D 
scores higher. During the follow-up year, patients experienced on average 0.519 
(95% CI 0.453-0.555) and 0.646 (95% CI 0.613-0.680) QALYs in Study 1 and Study 
2, respectively (P < 0.001). Age, modified Rankin Scale before stroke onset, 
acute phase Scandinavian Stroke Scale, and the study group explained the 
variance of QALYs. The first-year mean total costs were 10 626 € and 14 603 € 
and the mean cost/QALY 20 474 € and 22 605 € in Study 1 and Study 2, 
respectively. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of Study 2 compared with 
Study 1 was 31 315 € without and 60 684 € with patient characteristics 
standardization.
CONCLUSIONS: Stroke patients' improved outcome is clear, but it remains 
uncertain to what extent it is attributable to the development of care. More 
research is needed to study the cost-effectiveness of stroke care.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ane.12509
PMID: 26392407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Scand J Public Health. 2016 Feb;44(1):55-61. doi: 10.1177/1403494815605195.
Epub  2015 Sep 21.

Healthy life years in old age: Swedish development 1980-2010 according to 
different health indicators.

Lagergren M(1), Johnell K(2), Schön P(2), Danielsson M(3).

Author information:
(1)Stockholm Gerontology Research Centre, Sweden 
marten.lagergren@aldrecentrum.se.
(2)Stockholm Gerontology Research Centre, Sweden Aging Research Centre, 
Karolinska Institute and Stockholm University, Stockholm Gerontology Research 
Centre, Sweden.
(3)Public Health Agency of Sweden, Sweden.

AIMS: To investigate the development of healthy life expectancy from 65 years 
(HLE65) in Sweden in the period 1980 and 2010 by using two different health 
indicators: self-rated health and the global activity limitation indicator 
(GALI).
METHODS: Sources of data for the HLE computations were Swedish national 
mortality statistics and the nationwide Swedish Survey of Living Conditions 
(SSLC), which have been conducted biennially by Statistics Sweden since 1974. We 
used the Sullivan method for calculations of HLE. A decomposition into mortality 
and disability effect has been made in accordance with the method devised by 
Nusselder.
RESULTS: Life expectancy at age 65 (LE65) increased by 3.1 years for women and 
4.0 years for men from 1980/85 to 2006/11. Regardless of which health measure 
investigated - self-rated health or GALI - HLE65 increased between the periods 
1980/85 to 2006/2011 more rapidly than LE65 and as a consequence the years with 
bad self-rated health and years with activity limitations decreased. These 
increases as well as the decreases were significant (p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The Swedish LE65 and HLE65 development, as judged by the SSLC 
study, are compatible with the postponement hypothesis and there is even a clear 
tendency for compression. Thus, the years with bad self-rated health and years 
with activity limitations are postponed to a higher age and the number of those 
years have decreased. From this respect, the Swedish development looks positive. 
The need of old age care in 2010 would have been much higher if it had been 
expansion - not postponement - of bad self-rated health and years with activity 
limitations during the time period.

© 2015 the Nordic Societies of Public Health.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494815605195
PMID: 26392423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. J Endovasc Ther. 2015 Oct;22(5):725-6. doi: 10.1177/1526602815601367.

Commentary: Critical Limb Ischemia and Hemodialysis: Revascularization Against 
All Odds.

Airoldi F(1), Losa S(2), Pocar M(3).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Department, MultiMedica IRCCS Scientific Institute, Milan, 
Italy flavio.airoldi@multimedica.it.
(2)Cardiovascular Department, MultiMedica IRCCS Scientific Institute, Milan, 
Italy.
(3)Cardiovascular Department, MultiMedica IRCCS Scientific Institute, Milan, 
Italy Università degli Studi di Milano, Milan, Italy.

Comment on
    J Endovasc Ther. 2015 Oct;22(5):719-24.

DOI: 10.1177/1526602815601367
PMID: 26392476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Nutrients. 2015 Sep 17;7(9):8010-9. doi: 10.3390/nu7095375.

A Modelling Approach to Estimate the Impact of Sodium Reduction in Soups on 
Cardiovascular Health in the Netherlands.

Bruins MJ(1), Dötsch-Klerk M(2), Matthee J(3), Kearney M(4), van Elk K(5), Weber 
P(6), Eggersdorfer M(7).

Author information:
(1)DSM Biotechnology Center, Alexander Fleminglaan 1, Delft 2613AX, The 
Netherlands. maaike.bruins@DSM.com.
(2)Unilever R&D Vlaardingen, Olivier van Noortlaan 120, Vlaardingen 3133 AT, The 
Netherlands. Mariska.Dotsch@unilever.com.
(3)Unilever R&D Vlaardingen, Olivier van Noortlaan 120, Vlaardingen 3133 AT, The 
Netherlands. Joep.Matthee@unilever.com.
(4)Unilever R&D Vlaardingen, Olivier van Noortlaan 120, Vlaardingen 3133 AT, The 
Netherlands. Mary.Kearney@unilever.com.
(5)Unilever R&D Vlaardingen, Olivier van Noortlaan 120, Vlaardingen 3133 AT, The 
Netherlands. Kathelijn-van.Elk@unilever.com.
(6)DSM Nutritional Products, Wurmisweg 576, Kaiseraugst CH-4303, Switzerland. 
peter.weber@dsm.com.
(7)DSM Nutritional Products, Wurmisweg 576, Kaiseraugst CH-4303, Switzerland. 
manfred.eggersdorfer@dsm.com.

Hypertension is a major modifiable risk factor for cardiovascular disease and 
mortality, which could be lowered by reducing dietary sodium. The potential 
health impact of a product reformulation in the Netherlands was modelled, 
selecting packaged soups containing on average 25% less sodium as an example of 
an achievable product reformulation when implemented gradually. First, the blood 
pressure lowering resulting from sodium intake reduction was modelled. Second, 
the predicted blood pressure lowering was translated into potentially 
preventable incidence and mortality cases from stroke, acute myocardial 
infarction (AMI), angina pectoris, and heart failure (HF) implementing one year 
salt reduction. Finally, the potentially preventable subsequent lifetime 
Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) were calculated. The sodium reduction in 
soups might potentially reduce the incidence and mortality of stroke by 
approximately 0.5%, AMI and angina by 0.3%, and HF by 0.2%. The related burden 
of disease could be reduced by approximately 800 lifetime DALYs. This modelling 
approach can be used to provide insight into the potential public health impact 
of sodium reduction in specific food products. The data demonstrate that an 
achievable food product reformulation to reduce sodium can potentially benefit 
public health, albeit modest. When implemented across multiple product 
categories and countries, a significant health impact could be achieved.

DOI: 10.3390/nu7095375
PMCID: PMC4586570
PMID: 26393647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2015 Sep 22;135(17):1534-5. doi: 
10.4045/tidsskr.15.0925. eCollection 2015 Sep 22.

[Re: People with mental disorders have shorter life expectancy].

[Article in Norwegian]

Reseland S.

Comment in
    Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2015 Sep 22;135(17):1535.

Comment on
    Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2015 Feb 10;135(3):246-8.

DOI: 10.4045/tidsskr.15.0925
PMID: 26394577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2016 Feb;474(2):528-36. doi:
10.1007/s11999-015-4552-y.  Epub 2015 Sep 22.

Revision Distal Femoral Arthroplasty With the Compress(®) Prosthesis Has a Low 
Rate of Mechanical Failure at 10 Years.

Zimel MN(1), Farfalli GL(2), Zindman AM(3), Riedel ER(4), Morris CD(5), Boland 
PJ(1), Healey JH(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Service, Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, NY, 10065, USA.
(2)Institute of Orthopedics Carlos E. Ottolenghi, Italian Hospital of Buenos 
Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Division of Orthopaedic Oncology, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(6)Orthopaedic Service, Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, NY, 10065, USA. healeyj@mskcc.org.
(7)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, 
NY, USA. healeyj@mskcc.org.

Comment in
    Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2016 Feb;474(2):537-8.

BACKGROUND: Patients with failed distal femoral megaprostheses often have bone 
loss that limits reconstructive options and contributes to the high failure rate 
of revision surgery. The Compress(®) Compliant Pre-stress (CPS) implant can 
reconstruct the femur even when there is little remaining bone. It differs from 
traditional stemmed prostheses because it requires only 4 to 8 cm of residual 
bone for fixation. Given the poor long-term results of stemmed revision 
constructs, we sought to determine the failure rate and functional outcomes of 
the CPS implant in revision surgery.
QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: (1) What is the cumulative incidence of mechanical and other 
types of implant failure when used to revise failed distal femoral 
arthroplasties placed after oncologic resection? (2) What complications are 
characteristic of this prosthesis? (3) What function do patients achieve after 
receiving this prosthesis?
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed 27 patients who experienced failure of a 
distal femoral prosthesis and were revised to a CPS implant from April 2000 to 
February 2013. Indications for use included a minimum 2.5 mm cortical thickness 
of the remaining proximal femur, no prior radiation, life expectancy > 10 years, 
and compliance with protected weightbearing for 3 months. The cumulative 
incidence of failure was calculated for both mechanical (loss of compression 
between the implant anchor plug and spindle) and other failure modes using a 
competing risk analysis. Failure was defined as removal of the CPS implant. 
Followup was a minimum of 2 years or until implant removal. Median followup for 
patients with successful revision arthroplasty was 90 months (range, 24-181 
months). Functional outcomes were measured with the Musculoskeletal Tumor 
Society (MSTS) functional assessment score.
RESULTS: The cumulative incidence of mechanical failure was 11% (95% confidence 
interval [CI], 4%-33%) at both 5 and 10 years. These failures occurred early at 
a median of 5 months. The cumulative incidence of other failures was 18% (95% 
CI, 7%-45%) at 5 and 10 years, all of which were deep infection. Three patients 
required secondary operations for cortical insufficiency proximal to the anchor 
plug in bone not spanned by the CPS implant and unrelated to the prosthesis. 
Median MSTS score was 27 (range, 24-30).
CONCLUSIONS: Revision distal femoral replacement arthroplasty after a failed 
megaprosthesis is often difficult as a result of a lack of adequate bone. 
Reconstruction with the CPS implant has an 11% failure rate at 10 years. Our 
results are promising and demonstrate the durable fixation provided by the CPS 
implant. Further studies to compare the CPS prosthesis and other reconstruction 
options with respect to survival and functional outcomes are warranted.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level IV, therapeutic study.

DOI: 10.1007/s11999-015-4552-y
PMCID: PMC4709327
PMID: 26394638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. BMJ. 2015 Sep 22;351:h5034. doi: 10.1136/bmj.h5034.

High blood pressure is the leading health risk factor in India, finds study.

Travasso C(1).

Author information:
(1)Mumbai.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.h5034
PMID: 26395268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Heart. 2015 Dec;101(23):1868-73. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2015-308255. Epub
2015  Sep 22.

QALYs in cost-effectiveness analysis: an overview for cardiologists.

Wouters OJ(1), Naci H(1), Samani NJ(2).

Author information:
(1)LSE Health, London School of Economics and Political Science, London, UK.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK 
NIHR Leicester Cardiovascular Biomedical Research Unit, Leicester, UK.

Comment in
    Heart. 2017 Nov;103(21):1746.

In recent years, cost-effectiveness data have strongly influenced clinical 
practice guidelines for several cardiovascular treatments. Economic 
considerations are increasingly common as health systems are under mounting 
pressure to maximise value for money. The quality-adjusted life year (QALY)-an 
outcome measure that expresses the duration and quality of life-is the main 
pillar of cost-effectiveness analyses. It is widely used in assessments of the 
clinical and economic value of new cardiovascular treatments, but how the QALY 
is derived is often unclear to clinicians. In this article, we first explain how 
QALYs are defined and calculated. We then review a selected set of 
cost-effectiveness analyses of recently introduced cardiovascular treatments and 
outline how these studies derived their QALYs. Finally, we discuss the 
limitations of the QALY and how the presentation of the measure could be 
improved in cost-effectiveness studies.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2015-308255
PMID: 26395316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Andrologia. 2016 Feb;48(1):99-110. doi: 10.1111/and.12489. Epub 2015 Sep 22.

The andrologist's contribution to a better life for ageing men: part 2.

Comhaire F(1), Mahmoud A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, University Hospital Gent, Gent, Belgium.

The long-term intake of a judiciously composed nutriceutical containing low-dose 
vitamins, antioxidants, minerals and particular herbal preparations seems 
justified for older persons who take medication, or who consume an unbalanced 
diet, or who are exposed to environmental toxins. Recent reports suggest these 
nutriceuticals may delay age-related diseases and the occurrence of cancer, and 
reduce mortality in apparently healthy ageing men. Food supplementation with a 
nutriceutical that was formulated particularly for ageing men should result in 
an increase of at least one quality-adjusted life year and may lower the 
financial and social burden of disease in elderly people.

© 2015 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/and.12489
PMID: 26395368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Osteoporos Int. 2016 Jan;27(1):301-8. doi: 10.1007/s00198-015-3319-3. Epub
2015  Sep 22.

Cost-effectiveness of personalized supplementation with vitamin D-rich dairy 
products in the prevention of osteoporotic fractures.

Ethgen O(1), Hiligsmann M(2), Burlet N(1), Reginster JY(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Epidemiology and Health Economics, University of 
Liège, CHU Sart Tilman B23, 4000, Liège, Belgium.
(2)Department of Health Services Research, Maastricht University, Maastricht, 
The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Public Health, Epidemiology and Health Economics, University of 
Liège, CHU Sart Tilman B23, 4000, Liège, Belgium. jyreginster@ulg.ac.be.

Titrated supplementations with vitamin D-fortified yogurt, based on spontaneous 
calcium and vitamin D intakes, can be cost-effective in postmenopausal women 
with or without increased risk of osteoporotic fractures.
INTRODUCTION: The objective of this study is to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
the vitamin D-fortified yogurt given to women with and without an increased risk 
of osteoporotic fracture.
METHODS: A validated cost-effectiveness microsimulation Markov model of 
osteoporosis management was used. Three personalized supplementation scenarios 
to reflect the Ca/Vit D needs taking into account the well-known variations in 
dietary habits and a possible pharmacological supplementation in Ca/Vit D, given 
above or in combination with anti-osteoporosis medications: one yogurt per day, 
i.e., 400 mg of Ca + 200 IU of Vit D (scenario 1 U), two yogurts per day, i.e., 
800 mg of Ca + 400 IU of Vit D (scenario 2 U), or three yogurts per day, i.e., 
1,200 mg of Ca + 600 IU of Vit D (scenario 3 U).
RESULTS: One yogurt is cost-effective in the general population above the age of 
70 years and in all age groups in women with low bone mineral density (BMD) or 
prevalent vertebral fracture (PVF). The daily intake of two yogurts is 
cost-effective above 80 years in the general population and above 70 years in 
the two groups of women at increased risk of fractures. However, an intake of 
three yogurts per day is only cost-effective above 80 years old in the general 
population, as well as in women with low BMD or PVF.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study is the first economic analysis supporting the 
cost-effectiveness of dairy products, fortified with vitamin D, in the 
armamentarium against osteoporotic fractures.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-015-3319-3
PMCID: PMC4715839
PMID: 26395885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Age Ageing. 2015 Nov;44(6):1040-5. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afv128. Epub 2015 Sep
22.

Educational differences in life expectancy over five decades among the oldest 
old in Norway.

Kinge JM(1), Steingrímsdóttir ÓA(2), Moe JO(3), Skirbekk V(4), Næss Ø(5), Strand 
BH(5).
