BC treatment model.
METHODS: Data were obtained from NordiQC HER2 BC surveys performed from 2008 to 
2012. False-negative (FN) and false-positive (FP) rates for approved and 
laboratory-developed IVDs were used to estimate direct costs, loss of survival, 
productivity benefit and quality-adjusted life-years. In the absence of 
consistent and accessible clinical and economic data from countries 
participating in the NordiQC programme, United States productivity data, 
healthcare costs and patient numbers were used as a surrogate in order to 
estimate the potential impact of selecting an approved or laboratory-developed 
IVDs.
RESULTS: In total, 1703 tests were performed. Pooled FN rates were 11% for 
approved IVDs and 25% for laboratory-developed IVDs; FP rates were 0% and 5%, 
respectively. Using these FP and FN rates in the economic model and applying 
them to the United States BC population, approved IVD tests would result in 
better clinical outcomes, i.e., better survival and fewer disease 
recurrences/progressions, and lower costs, i.e., total direct costs and lost 
productivity, versus laboratory-developed IVD tests. Every $1 saved by 
laboratories by using cheaper reagents could potentially result in approximately 
$6 additional costs to the healthcare system.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this analysis suggest that incorrect HER2 test 
results have far-reaching clinical and economic consequences.

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-015-1018-6
PMCID: PMC4553016
PMID: 26318869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Aging (Albany NY). 2015 Aug;7(8):553-67. doi: 10.18632/aging.100791.

Knockdown of Indy/CeNac2 extends Caenorhabditis elegans life span by inducing 
AMPK/aak-2.

Schwarz F(1), Karadeniz Z(1), Fischer-Rosinsky A(1), Willmes DM(2), Spranger 
J(1), Birkenfeld AL(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Nutrition, Center for 
Cardiovascular Research, Charité - University School of Medicine, Berlin, 
Germany.
(2)Section of Metabolic Vascular Medicine, Medical Clinic III and Paul 
Langerhans Institute Dresden (PLID), a member of the German Diabetes Center 
(DZD), Technische Universität Dresden, Germany.
(3)Section of Diabetes and Nutritional Sciences, Rayne Institute, King's College 
London, UK.

Reducing the expression of the Indy (Acronym for 'I'm Not Dead, Yet') gene in 
lower organisms promotes longevity and leads to a phenotype that resembles 
various aspects of caloric restriction. In C. elegans, the available data on 
life span extension is controversial. Therefore, the aim of this study was to 
determine the role of the C. elegans INDY homolog CeNAC2 in life span regulation 
and to delineate possible molecular mechanisms. siRNA against Indy/CeNAC2 was 
used to reduce expression of Indy/CeNAC2. Mean life span was assessed in four 
independent experiments, as well as whole body fat content and AMPK activation. 
Moreover, the effect of Indy/CeNAC2 knockdown in C. elegans with inactivating 
variants of AMPK (TG38) was studied. Knockdown of Indy/CeNAC2 increased life 
span by 22±3 % compared to control siRNA treated C. elegans, together with a 
decrease in whole body fat content by ~50%. Indy/CeNAC2 reduction also increased 
the activation of the intracellular energy sensor AMPK/aak2. In worms without 
functional AMPK/aak2, life span was not extended when Indy/CeNAC2 was reduced. 
Inhibition of glycolysis with deoxyglucose, an intervention known to increase 
AMPK/aak2 activity and life span, did not promote longevity when Indy/CeNAC2 was 
knocked down. Together, these data indicate that reducing the expression of 
Indy/CeNAC2 increases life span in C. elegans, an effect mediated at least in 
part by AMPK/aak2.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100791
PMCID: PMC4586101
PMID: 26318988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement ALB owns shares 
of Eternygen GmbH. The authors have no conflict of interests to declare.


616. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2015 Oct;28(10):379-83. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzv039.
Epub  2015 Aug 27.

Identification of cross-reactive single-domain antibodies against serum albumin 
using next-generation DNA sequencing.

Henry KA(1), Tanha J(2), Hussack G(3).

Author information:
(1)Human Health Therapeutics Portfolio, National Research Council Canada, 100 
Sussex Drive, Ottawa, ON, Canada K1A 0R6.
(2)Human Health Therapeutics Portfolio, National Research Council Canada, 100 
Sussex Drive, Ottawa, ON, Canada K1A 0R6 School of Environmental Sciences, 
Ontario Agricultural College, University of Guelph, 50 Stone Road East, Guelph, 
ON, Canada N1G 2W1 Department of Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology, 
University of Ottawa, 75 Laurier Avenue East, Ottawa, ON, Canada K1H 8M5.
(3)Human Health Therapeutics Portfolio, National Research Council Canada, 100 
Sussex Drive, Ottawa, ON, Canada K1A 0R6 greg.hussack@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca.

Antibodies that cross-react with multiple isoforms or homologue of a given 
protein are often desirable, especially in therapeutic applications. Here, we 
report the identification of several unique, clonally unrelated, single-domain 
antibodies (sdAbs) that bind to multiple serum albumin orthologues (human, 
rhesus, rat and mouse) with low-to-medium nanomolar affinity from a llama 
immunized only with human serum albumin. Using single-round panning of a 
phage-displayed sdAb library against serum albumins and next-generation DNA 
sequencing, we were able to predict patterns of sdAb reactivity to the albumins 
of different species with ∼90% accuracy. We expect this strategy to be generally 
applicable for identifying cross-reactive sdAbs, particularly when these exist 
at low frequency and/or are poorly enriched by panning. Moreover, the sdAbs 
identified here are of potential interest for serum half-life extension of 
biologics.

© Crown copyright 2015.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzv039
PMID: 26319004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Neural Netw. 2015 Nov;71:88-104. doi: 10.1016/j.neunet.2015.08.001. Epub
2015  Aug 14.

Incremental multi-class semi-supervised clustering regularized by Kalman 
filtering.

Mehrkanoon S(1), Agudelo OM(2), Suykens JA(3).

Author information:
(1)KU Leuven, ESAT-STADIUS, Kasteelpark Arenberg 10, B-3001 Leuven (Heverlee), 
Belgium. Electronic address: siamak.mehrkanoon@esat.kuleuven.be.
(2)KU Leuven, ESAT-STADIUS, Kasteelpark Arenberg 10, B-3001 Leuven (Heverlee), 
Belgium. Electronic address: mauricio.agudelo@esat.kuleuven.be.
(3)KU Leuven, ESAT-STADIUS, Kasteelpark Arenberg 10, B-3001 Leuven (Heverlee), 
Belgium. Electronic address: johan.suykens@esat.kuleuven.be.

This paper introduces an on-line semi-supervised learning algorithm formulated 
as a regularized kernel spectral clustering (KSC) approach. We consider the case 
where new data arrive sequentially but only a small fraction of it is labeled. 
The available labeled data act as prototypes and help to improve the performance 
of the algorithm to estimate the labels of the unlabeled data points. We adopt a 
recently proposed multi-class semi-supervised KSC based algorithm (MSS-KSC) and 
make it applicable for on-line data clustering. Given a few user-labeled data 
points the initial model is learned and then the class membership of the 
remaining data points in the current and subsequent time instants are estimated 
and propagated in an on-line fashion. The update of the memberships is carried 
out mainly using the out-of-sample extension property of the model. Initially 
the algorithm is tested on computer-generated data sets, then we show that video 
segmentation can be cast as a semi-supervised learning problem. Furthermore we 
show how the tracking capabilities of the Kalman filter can be used to provide 
the labels of objects in motion and thus regularizing the solution obtained by 
the MSS-KSC algorithm. In the experiments, we demonstrate the performance of the 
proposed method on synthetic data sets and real-life videos where the clusters 
evolve in a smooth fashion over time.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neunet.2015.08.001
PMID: 26319050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Nutr Hosp. 2015 Sep 1;32(3):1184-92. doi: 10.3305/nh.2015.32.3.9176.

[RISK OF MALNUTRITION IN A POPULATION OVER 75 YEARS NON-INSTITUTIONALIZED WITH 
FUNCTIONAL AUTONOMY].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Hernández Galiot A(1), Pontes Torrado Y(2), Goñi Cambrodón I(2).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Nutrición y Bromatología I. Facultad de Farmacia. Universidad 
Complutense de Madrid, España.. aherna08@ucm.es.
(2)Departamento de Nutrición y Bromatología I. Facultad de Farmacia. Universidad 
Complutense de Madrid, España.. igonic@ucm.es.

OBJECTIVES: to assess the nutritional status of autonomous non-institutionalized 
elderly, and determine the relationship between malnutrition risk and social 
factors, diseases and quality of life of the population.
METHODS: cross-sectional study in 57 adults over 75 autonomous, 
non-institutionalized residents in Garrucha, Almería. The nutritional risk 
assessment was performed with the MNA questionnaire. The social risk was 
assessed by socio-familiar scale of Gijón, and the life expectancy was assessed 
by CCI questionnaire.
RESULTS: 73.7% of the population had a good nutritional status; 22.8% was at 
risk of malnutrition and 3.5% had malnutrition. Some subjects were at social 
risk and 17.5% had a probability of mortality rate of over 52% in the following 
three years. Most of the population was within 5 diseases. The risk of 
malnutrition was positively related to social risk and the number of chronic 
diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: the elderly presented an acceptable nutritional status. However, 
22.8% of the group was at risk of malnutrition, especially those over 90 years 
and women. The risk of malnutrition appears to be associated with a more 
disadvantaged social situation and with more diseases. The development of 
training programs in nutrition education and the use of simple tools to detect 
nutritional risk in primary health care could be effective tools to reduce the 
prevalence of malnutrition, avoid negative consequences on the health and 
improve the quality of life of older adults.

Publisher: Objetivos: valorar el estado nutricional en adultos mayores autónomos 
no institucionalizados y determinar la relación del riesgo de malnutrición con 
factores sociales, patologías y calidad de vida de la población. Métodos: 
estudio transversal realizado en 57 adultos mayores de 75 años autónomos, no 
institucionalizados residentes en Garrucha, Almería. La valoración del riesgo 
nutricional se realizó con el cuestionario MNA. El riesgo social se valoró 
mediante la escala socio-familiar de Gijón y la esperanza de vida se valoró con 
el cuestionario CCI. Resultados: el 73,7% de la población presentó un buen 
estado nutricional; el 22,8% tenía riesgo de malnutrición y el 3,5 % presentó 
malnutrición. Algunos sujetos estaban en riesgo social y el 17,5 % presentaba 
una probabilidad de mortalidad superior al 52% en los siguientes tres años. La 
mayoría de la población padecía menos de cinco enfermedades. El riesgo de 
malnutrición se relacionó positivamente con los factores sociales y con el 
número de patologías. Conclusiones: la población estudiada presentó un aceptable 
estado nutricional. A pesar de ello, el 22,8% del colectivo tenía riesgo de 
malnutrición, principalmente los mayores de 90 años y las mujeres. El riesgo de 
malnutrición parece relacionarse con una situación social más desfavorecida y 
con un mayor número de patologías. El desarrollo de programas de formación en 
educación nutricional y la utilización de instrumentos sencillos para detectar 
el riesgo nutricional, en atención primaria, podrían ser herramientas eficaces 
para disminuir la prevalencia de malnutrición, evitar consecuencias negativas 
sobre la salud y mejorar la calidad de vida de los adultos mayores.

Copyright AULA MEDICA EDICIONES 2014. Published by AULA MEDICA. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.3305/nh.2015.32.3.9176
PMID: 26319837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Blood. 2015 Oct 8;126(15):1860-1. doi: 10.1182/blood-2015-07-657478. Epub
2015  Aug 28.

How should we assess the value of innovative drugs in oncology? Lessons from 
cost-effectiveness analyses.

Prasad V(1), Mailankody S(2).

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Service, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, MD Hematology-Oncology Service, Knight Cancer Center, Oregon 
Health & Sciences University, Portland, OR.
(2)Medical Oncology Service, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, MD Myeloma Service, Division of Hematologic Malignancies, 
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY.

Comment on
    Blood. 2015 Mar 19;125(12):1866-9.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2015-07-657478
PMCID: PMC4600021
PMID: 26320099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2015;16(14):6033-8. doi:
10.7314/apjcp.2015.16.14.6033.

Effectiveness of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Techniques for Control of Pain in 
Lung Cancer Patients: An Integrated Review.

Phianmongkhol Y(1), Thongubon K, Woottiluk P.

Author information:
(1)Obstetric and Gynecological Nursing Section, Faculty of Nursing, Chiang Mai 
University, Chiang Mai, Thailand E-mail : yupin.ph@cmu.ac.th.

BACKGROUND: Experience of lung cancer includes negative impacts on both physical 
and psychological health. Pain is one of the negative experiences of lung 
cancer. Cognitive behavioral therapy techniques are often recommended as 
treatments for lung cancer pain. The objective of this review was to synthesize 
the evidence on the effectiveness of cognitive behavioral therapy techniques in 
treating lung cancer pain. This review considered studies that included lung 
cancer patients who were required to 1) be at least 18 years old; 2) speak and 
read English or Thai; 3) have a life expectancy of at least two months; 4) 
experience daily cancer pain requiring an opioid medication; 5) have a positive 
response to opioid medication; 6) have "average or usual" pain between 4 and 7 
on a scale of 0-10 for the day before the clinic visit or for a typical day; and 
7) able to participate in a pain evaluation and treatment program. This review 
considered studies to examine interventions for use in treatment of pain in lung 
cancer patients, including: biofeedback, cognitive/attentional distraction, 
imagery, hypnosis, and meditation. Any randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that 
examined cognitive behavioral therapy techniques for pain specifically in lung 
cancer patients were included. In the absence of RCTs, quasi-experimental 
designs were reviewed for possible conclusion in a narrative summary. Outcome 
measures were pain intensity before and after cognitive behavioural therapy 
techniques. The search strategy aimed to find both published and unpublished 
literature. A three-step search was utilised by using identified keywords and 
text term. An initial limited search of MEDLINE and CINAHL was undertaken 
followed by analysis of the text words contained in the title and abstract, and 
of the index terms used to describe the article. A second search using all the 
identified keywords and index terms was then undertaken across all included 
databases. Thirdly, the reference list of all identified reports and articles 
were searched for additional studies. Searches were conducted during January 
1991- March 2014 limited to English and Thai languages with no date restriction.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: All studies that met the inclusion criteria were assessed 
for methodological quality by three reviewers using a standardized critical 
appraisal tool from the Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI). Three reviewers extracted 
data independently, using a standardized data extraction tool from the Joanna 
Briggs Institute (JBI). Ideally for quantitative data meta-analysis was to be 
conducted where all results were subject to double data entry. Odds ratios (for 
categorical data) and weighted mean differences (for continuous data) and their 
95% confidence intervals were to be calculated for analysis and heterogeneity 
was to be assessed using the standard Chi-square. Where statistical pooling was 
not possible the finding were be presented in narrative form.
RESULTS: There were no studies located that met the inclusion requirements of 
this review. There were also no text and opinion pieces that were specific to 
cognitive behavioral therapy techniques pain and lung cancer patients.
CONCLUSIONS: There is currently no evidence available to determine the 
effectiveness of cognitive behavioural therapy techniques for pain in lung 
cancer patients.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2015.16.14.6033
PMID: 26320492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2015;16(14):6081-7. doi:
10.7314/apjcp.2015.16.14.6081.

Incidence and Mortality of Breast Cancer and their Relationship to Development 
in Asia.

Ghoncheh M(1), Mohammadian-Hafshejani A, Salehiniya H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
Hamadan University of Medical Sciences, Hamadan, Iran E-mail : 
alesaleh70@yahoo.com.

PURPOSE: This study aimed to investigate the incidence and mortality of breast 
cancer, and its relationship with human development index (HDI) and its 
components in Asia in 2012.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study was an ecologic study in Asia for assessment 
of the correlation between age-specific incidence rate (ASIR) and age-specific 
mortality rate (ASMR) with HDI and its details that include: life expectancy at 
birth, mean years of schooling and gross national income (GNI) per capita. Data 
about SIR and SMR for every Asian country for the year 2012 were obtained from 
the global cancer project. We used a bivariate method for assessment of the 
correlation between SIR and SMR and HDI and its individual components. 
Statistical significance was assumed if P<0.05. All reported P-values are 
two-sided. Statistical analyses were performed using SPSS (Version 15.0, SPSS 
Inc.).
RESULTS: In 2012, 639,824 cases of breast cancer were recorded in Asian 
countries. Countries with the highest standardized incidence rate (ASIR) (per 
100,000) were Israel (80.5), Lebanon (78.7), Armenia (74.1) and the highest 
standard mortality rate (ASMR) was observed in Pakistan (25.2), Armenia (24.2), 
and Lebanon (24). There was a positive correlation between the ASIR of breast 
cancer and HDI (r = 0.556, p <0.001), whereas there was a negative correlation 
between the ASMR of breast cancer and HDI (r = -0.051).
CONCLUSIONS: Breast cancer incidence in countries with higher development is 
greater, while mortality is greatest in countries with less development. There 
was a positive and significant relationship between the ASIR of breast cancer 
and HDI and its components. Also there was a negative but non significant 
relationship between the ASMR of breast cancer and HDI.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2015.16.14.6081
PMID: 26320499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Clin Calcium. 2015 Sep;25(9):1313-8.

[On "2015 Guidelines for Prevention and Treatment of Osteoporosis". Osteoporosis 
in relation to locomotive syndrome].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishibashi H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Ina Hospital, Japan.

In the super-aged society of Japan, both osteoporosis and locomotive syndrome 
are important together from a point of view of the extension of the healthy life 
expectancy. Osteoporosis is an significant constituting disease of locomotive 
syndrome, and the measures for locomotive syndrome are important to the 
prevention of osteoporotic fracture, because it influences the risk of falling. 
Actually, a rating system and the measures for locomotive syndrome have 
significant relationship with evaluation and decreace of the risk of falling. To 
reduce the osteoporotic fracture in Japan, the spread of measures for locomotive 
syndrome are necessary, as well as the increase of a treatment rate of 
osteoporosis.

PMID: 26320531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. J Biotechnol. 2015 Oct 20;212:116-24. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2015.08.021.
Epub  2015 Aug 29.

An acidified thermostabilizing mini-peptide derived from the carboxyl extension 
of the larger isoform of the plant Rubisco activase.

Zhang M(1), Li X(2), Yang Y(1), Luo Z(1), Liu C(1), Gong M(3), Zou Z(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Engineering Research Center of Sustainable 
Development and Utilization of Biomass Energy, Ministry of Education, Key 
Laboratory of Biomass Energy and Environmental Biotechnology of Yunnan Province, 
Yunnan Normal University, Kunming 650500, Yunnan, China.
(2)Sugarcane Research Institute, Yunnan Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Yunnan 
Key Laboratory of Sugarcane Genetic Improvement, Kaiyuan 661600, Yunnan, China.
(3)School of Life Sciences, Engineering Research Center of Sustainable 
Development and Utilization of Biomass Energy, Ministry of Education, Key 
Laboratory of Biomass Energy and Environmental Biotechnology of Yunnan Province, 
Yunnan Normal University, Kunming 650500, Yunnan, China. Electronic address: 
gongming63@163.com.
(4)School of Life Sciences, Engineering Research Center of Sustainable 
Development and Utilization of Biomass Energy, Ministry of Education, Key 
Laboratory of Biomass Energy and Environmental Biotechnology of Yunnan Province, 
Yunnan Normal University, Kunming 650500, Yunnan, China. Electronic address: 
zzr09@sina.com.

Thermostable fusion peptide partners are valuable in engineering thermostability 
in proteins. We evaluated the Arabidopsis counterpart (AtRAce) and an acidified 
derivative (mRAce) of the conserved carboxyl extension (RAce) of plant Rubisco 
activase (RCA) for their thermostabilizing properties in Escherichia coli and 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae using a protein fusion strategy. We used AtRAce and 
mRAce as fusion tails for the thermolabile protein RCA2 from Arabidopsis 
thaliana and Nicotiana tabacum. The homologous fusion of AtRAce with Arabidopsis 
RCA2 and the heterologous fusion of AtRAce with tobacco RCA2 increased the 
thermostability of both proteins. The acidified derivative mRAce conferred 
greater thermostability upon both proteins as compared with AtRAce. Moreover, 
mRAce enhanced the thermostability of other two thermolabile proteins from 
Jatropha curcas: the cytosolic ascorbate peroxidase 1 (JcAPX1) and the TATA-box 
binding protein isoform 1 (JcTBP1). We further report - for the first time - 
that JcTBP1 mediates heat tolerance in vivo in yeast. Thus, our study identifies 
a C-terminal acidic mini-peptide - the acidified derivative mRAce - with 
potential uses in improving the thermostability of heat-labile proteins and 
their associated heat tolerance in host organisms.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2015.08.021
PMID: 26321073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Lancet. 2015 Nov 28;386(10009):2145-91. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(15)61340-X.
Epub  2015 Aug 28.

Global, regional, and national disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) for 306 
diseases and injuries and healthy life expectancy (HALE) for 188 countries, 
1990-2013: quantifying the epidemiological transition.

GBD 2013 DALYs and HALE Collaborators; Murray CJ, Barber RM, Foreman KJ, 
Abbasoglu Ozgoren A, Abd-Allah F, Abera SF, Aboyans V, Abraham JP, Abubakar I, 
Abu-Raddad LJ, Abu-Rmeileh NM, Achoki T, Ackerman IN, Ademi Z, Adou AK, Adsuar 
JC, Afshin A, Agardh EE, Alam SS, Alasfoor D, Albittar MI, Alegretti MA, Alemu 
ZA, Alfonso-Cristancho R, Alhabib S, Ali R, Alla F, Allebeck P, Almazroa MA, 
Alsharif U, Alvarez E, Alvis-Guzman N, Amare AT, Ameh EA, Amini H, Ammar W, 
Anderson HR, Anderson BO, Antonio CA, Anwari P, Arnlöv J, Arsic Arsenijevic VS, 
Artaman A, Asghar RJ, Assadi R, Atkins LS, Avila MA, Awuah B, Bachman VF, Badawi 
A, Bahit MC, Balakrishnan K, Banerjee A, Barker-Collo SL, Barquera S, Barregard 
L, Barrero LH, Basu A, Basu S, Basulaiman MO, Beardsley J, Bedi N, Beghi E, 
Bekele T, Bell ML, Benjet C, Bennett DA, Bensenor IM, Benzian H, Bernabé E, 
Bertozzi-Villa A, Beyene TJ, Bhala N, Bhalla A, Bhutta ZA, Bienhoff K, Bikbov B, 
Biryukov S, Blore JD, Blosser CD, Blyth FM, Bohensky MA, Bolliger IW, Bora 
Başara B, Bornstein NM, Bose D, Boufous S, Bourne RR, Boyers LN, Brainin M, 
Brayne CE, Brazinova A, Breitborde NJ, Brenner H, Briggs AD, Brooks PM, Brown 
JC, Brugha TS, Buchbinder R, Buckle GC, Budke CM, Bulchis A, Bulloch AG, 
Campos-Nonato IR, Carabin H, Carapetis JR, Cárdenas R, Carpenter DO, Caso V, 
Castañeda-Orjuela CA, Castro RE, Catalá-López F, Cavalleri F, Çavlin A, Chadha 
VK, Chang JC, Charlson FJ, Chen H, Chen W, Chiang PP, Chimed-Ochir O, Chowdhury 
R, Christensen H, Christophi CA, Cirillo M, Coates MM, Coffeng LE, Coggeshall 
MS, Colistro V, Colquhoun SM, Cooke GS, Cooper C, Cooper LT, Coppola LM, 
Cortinovis M, Criqui MH, Crump JA, Cuevas-Nasu L, Danawi H, Dandona L, Dandona 
R, Dansereau E, Dargan PI, Davey G, Davis A, Davitoiu DV, Dayama A, De Leo D, 
Degenhardt L, Del Pozo-Cruz B, Dellavalle RP, Deribe K, Derrett S, Des Jarlais 
DC, Dessalegn M, Dharmaratne SD, Dherani MK, Diaz-Torné C, Dicker D, Ding EL, 
Dokova K, Dorsey ER, Driscoll TR, Duan L, Duber HC, Ebel BE, Edmond KM, Elshrek 
YM, Endres M, Ermakov SP, Erskine HE, Eshrati B, Esteghamati A, Estep K, Faraon 
EJ, Farzadfar F, Fay DF, Feigin VL, Felson DT, Fereshtehnejad SM, Fernandes JG, 
Ferrari AJ, Fitzmaurice C, Flaxman AD, Fleming TD, Foigt N, Forouzanfar MH, 
Fowkes FG, Paleo UF, Franklin RC, Fürst T, Gabbe B, Gaffikin L, Gankpé FG, 
Geleijnse JM, Gessner BD, Gething P, Gibney KB, Giroud M, Giussani G, Gomez 
Dantes H, Gona P, González-Medina D, Gosselin RA, Gotay CC, Goto A, Gouda HN, 
Graetz N, Gugnani HC, Gupta R, Gupta R, Gutiérrez RA, Haagsma J, Hafezi-Nejad N, 
Hagan H, Halasa YA, Hamadeh RR, Hamavid H, Hammami M, Hancock J, Hankey GJ, 
Hansen GM, Hao Y, Harb HL, Haro JM, Havmoeller R, Hay SI, Hay RJ, Heredia-Pi IB, 
Heuton KR, Heydarpour P, Higashi H, Hijar M, Hoek HW, Hoffman HJ, Hosgood HD, 
Hossain M, Hotez PJ, Hoy DG, Hsairi M, Hu G, Huang C, Huang JJ, Husseini A, 
Huynh C, Iannarone ML, Iburg KM, Innos K, Inoue M, Islami F, Jacobsen KH, Jarvis 
DL, Jassal SK, Jee SH, Jeemon P, Jensen PN, Jha V, Jiang G, Jiang Y, Jonas JB, 
Juel K, Kan H, Karch A, Karema CK, Karimkhani C, Karthikeyan G, Kassebaum NJ, 
Kaul A, Kawakami N, Kazanjan K, Kemp AH, Kengne AP, Keren A, Khader YS, Khalifa 
SE, Khan EA, Khan G, Khang YH, Kieling C, Kim D, Kim S, Kim Y, Kinfu Y, Kinge 
JM, Kivipelto M, Knibbs LD, Knudsen AK, Kokubo Y, Kosen S, Krishnaswami S, Kuate 
Defo B, Kucuk Bicer B, Kuipers EJ, Kulkarni C, Kulkarni VS, Kumar GA, Kyu HH, 
Lai T, Lalloo R, Lallukka T, Lam H, Lan Q, Lansingh VC, Larsson A, Lawrynowicz 
AE, Leasher JL, Leigh J, Leung R, Levitz CE, Li B, Li Y, Li Y, Lim SS, Lind M, 
Lipshultz SE, Liu S, Liu Y, Lloyd BK, Lofgren KT, Logroscino G, Looker KJ, 
Lortet-Tieulent J, Lotufo PA, Lozano R, Lucas RM, Lunevicius R, Lyons RA, Ma S, 
Macintyre MF, Mackay MT, Majdan M, Malekzadeh R, Marcenes W, Margolis DJ, 
Margono C, Marzan MB, Masci JR, Mashal MT, Matzopoulos R, Mayosi BM, Mazorodze 
TT, Mcgill NW, Mcgrath JJ, Mckee M, Mclain A, Meaney PA, Medina C, Mehndiratta 
MM, Mekonnen W, Melaku YA, Meltzer M, Memish ZA, Mensah GA, Meretoja A, Mhimbira 
FA, Micha R, Miller TR, Mills EJ, Mitchell PB, Mock CN, Mohamed Ibrahim N, 
Mohammad KA, Mokdad AH, Mola GL, Monasta L, Montañez Hernandez JC, Montico M, 
Montine TJ, Mooney MD, Moore AR, Moradi-Lakeh M, Moran AE, Mori R, Moschandreas 
J, Moturi WN, Moyer ML, Mozaffarian D, Msemburi WT, Mueller UO, Mukaigawara M, 
Mullany EC, Murdoch ME, Murray J, Murthy KS, Naghavi M, Naheed A, Naidoo KS, 
Naldi L, Nand D, Nangia V, Narayan KM, Nejjari C, Neupane SP, Newton CR, Ng M, 
Ngalesoni FN, Nguyen G, Nisar MI, Nolte S, Norheim OF, Norman RE, Norrving B, 
Nyakarahuka L, Oh IH, Ohkubo T, Ohno SL, Olusanya BO, Opio JN, Ortblad K, Ortiz 
A, Pain AW, Pandian JD, Panelo CI, Papachristou C, Park EK, Park JH, Patten SB, 
Patton GC, Paul VK, Pavlin BI, Pearce N, Pereira DM, Perez-Padilla R, Perez-Ruiz 
F, Perico N, Pervaiz A, Pesudovs K, Peterson CB, Petzold M, Phillips MR, 
Phillips BK, Phillips DE, Piel FB, Plass D, Poenaru D, Polinder S, Pope D, 
Popova S, Poulton RG, Pourmalek F, Prabhakaran D, Prasad NM, Pullan RL, Qato DM, 
Quistberg DA, Rafay A, Rahimi K, Rahman SU, Raju M, Rana SM, Razavi H, Reddy KS, 
Refaat A, Remuzzi G, Resnikoff S, Ribeiro AL, Richardson L, Richardus JH, 
Roberts DA, Rojas-Rueda D, Ronfani L, Roth GA, Rothenbacher D, Rothstein DH, 
Rowley JT, Roy N, Ruhago GM, Saeedi MY, Saha S, Sahraian MA, Sampson UK, 
Sanabria JR, Sandar L, Santos IS, Satpathy M, Sawhney M, Scarborough P, 
Schneider IJ, Schöttker B, Schumacher AE, Schwebel DC, Scott JG, Seedat S, 
Sepanlou SG, Serina PT, Servan-Mori EE, Shackelford KA, Shaheen A, Shahraz S, 
Shamah Levy T, Shangguan S, She J, Sheikhbahaei S, Shi P, Shibuya K, Shinohara 
Y, Shiri R, Shishani K, Shiue I, Shrime MG, Sigfusdottir ID, Silberberg DH, 
Simard EP, Sindi S, Singh A, Singh JA, Singh L, Skirbekk V, Slepak EL, Sliwa K, 
Soneji S, Søreide K, Soshnikov S, Sposato LA, Sreeramareddy CT, Stanaway JD, 
Stathopoulou V, Stein DJ, Stein MB, Steiner C, Steiner TJ, Stevens A, Stewart A, 
Stovner LJ, Stroumpoulis K, Sunguya BF, Swaminathan S, Swaroop M, Sykes BL, Tabb 
KM, Takahashi K, Tandon N, Tanne D, Tanner M, Tavakkoli M, Taylor HR, Te Ao BJ, 
Tediosi F, Temesgen AM, Templin T, Ten Have M, Tenkorang EY, Terkawi AS, Thomson 
B, Thorne-Lyman AL, Thrift AG, Thurston GD, Tillmann T, Tonelli M, Topouzis F, 
Toyoshima H, Traebert J, Tran BX, Trillini M, Truelsen T, Tsilimbaris M, Tuzcu 
EM, Uchendu US, Ukwaja KN, Undurraga EA, Uzun SB, Van Brakel WH, Van De Vijver 
S, van Gool CH, Van Os J, Vasankari TJ, Venketasubramanian N, Violante FS, 
Vlassov VV, Vollset SE, Wagner GR, Wagner J, Waller SG, Wan X, Wang H, Wang J, 
Wang L, Warouw TS, Weichenthal S, Weiderpass E, Weintraub RG, Wenzhi W, 
Werdecker A, Westerman R, Whiteford HA, Wilkinson JD, Williams TN, Wolfe CD, 
Wolock TM, Woolf AD, Wulf S, Wurtz B, Xu G, Yan LL, Yano Y, Ye P, Yentür GK, Yip 
P, Yonemoto N, Yoon SJ, Younis MZ, Yu C, Zaki ME, Zhao Y, Zheng Y, Zonies D, Zou 
X, Salomon JA, Lopez AD, Vos T.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2015 Nov 28;386(10009):2121-2.
    Nature. 2016 Oct 19;538(7625):371.

BACKGROUND: The Global Burden of Disease Study 2013 (GBD 2013) aims to bring 
together all available epidemiological data using a coherent measurement 
framework, standardised estimation methods, and transparent data sources to 
enable comparisons of health loss over time and across causes, age-sex groups, 
and countries. The GBD can be used to generate summary measures such as 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) and healthy life expectancy (HALE) that 
make possible comparative assessments of broad epidemiological patterns across 
countries and time. These summary measures can also be used to quantify the 
component of variation in epidemiology that is related to sociodemographic 
development.
METHODS: We used the published GBD 2013 data for age-specific mortality, years 
of life lost due to premature mortality (YLLs), and years lived with disability 
(YLDs) to calculate DALYs and HALE for 1990, 1995, 2000, 2005, 2010, and 2013 
for 188 countries. We calculated HALE using the Sullivan method; 95% uncertainty 
intervals (UIs) represent uncertainty in age-specific death rates and YLDs per 
person for each country, age, sex, and year. We estimated DALYs for 306 causes 
for each country as the sum of YLLs and YLDs; 95% UIs represent uncertainty in 
YLL and YLD rates. We quantified patterns of the epidemiological transition with 
a composite indicator of sociodemographic status, which we constructed from 
income per person, average years of schooling after age 15 years, and the total 
fertility rate and mean age of the population. We applied hierarchical 
regression to DALY rates by cause across countries to decompose variance related 
to the sociodemographic status variable, country, and time.
FINDINGS: Worldwide, from 1990 to 2013, life expectancy at birth rose by 6·2 
years (95% UI 5·6-6·6), from 65·3 years (65·0-65·6) in 1990 to 71·5 years 
(71·0-71·9) in 2013, HALE at birth rose by 5·4 years (4·9-5·8), from 56·9 years 
(54·5-59·1) to 62·3 years (59·7-64·8), total DALYs fell by 3·6% (0·3-7·4), and 
age-standardised DALY rates per 100 000 people fell by 26·7% (24·6-29·1). For 
communicable, maternal, neonatal, and nutritional disorders, global DALY 
numbers, crude rates, and age-standardised rates have all declined between 1990 
and 2013, whereas for non-communicable diseases, global DALYs have been 
increasing, DALY rates have remained nearly constant, and age-standardised DALY 
rates declined during the same period. From 2005 to 2013, the number of DALYs 
increased for most specific non-communicable diseases, including cardiovascular 
diseases and neoplasms, in addition to dengue, food-borne trematodes, and 
leishmaniasis; DALYs decreased for nearly all other causes. By 2013, the five 
leading causes of DALYs were ischaemic heart disease, lower respiratory 
infections, cerebrovascular disease, low back and neck pain, and road injuries. 
Sociodemographic status explained more than 50% of the variance between 
countries and over time for diarrhoea, lower respiratory infections, and other 
common infectious diseases; maternal disorders; neonatal disorders; nutritional 
deficiencies; other communicable, maternal, neonatal, and nutritional diseases; 
musculoskeletal disorders; and other non-communicable diseases. However, 
sociodemographic status explained less than 10% of the variance in DALY rates 
for cardiovascular diseases; chronic respiratory diseases; cirrhosis; diabetes, 
urogenital, blood, and endocrine diseases; unintentional injuries; and self-harm 
and interpersonal violence. Predictably, increased sociodemographic status was 
associated with a shift in burden from YLLs to YLDs, driven by declines in YLLs 
and increases in YLDs from musculoskeletal disorders, neurological disorders, 
and mental and substance use disorders. In most country-specific estimates, the 
increase in life expectancy was greater than that in HALE. Leading causes of 
DALYs are highly variable across countries.
INTERPRETATION: Global health is improving. Population growth and ageing have 
driven up numbers of DALYs, but crude rates have remained relatively constant, 
showing that progress in health does not mean fewer demands on health systems. 
The notion of an epidemiological transition--in which increasing 
sociodemographic status brings structured change in disease burden--is useful, 
but there is tremendous variation in burden of disease that is not associated 
with sociodemographic status. This further underscores the need for 
country-specific assessments of DALYs and HALE to appropriately inform health 
policy decisions and attendant actions.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(15)61340-X
PMCID: PMC4673910
PMID: 26321261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Pathol Biol (Paris). 2015 Sep;63(4-5):230-4. doi:
10.1016/j.patbio.2015.07.008.  Epub 2015 Aug 25.

Stress in biology and medicine, role in aging.

Robert L(1), Labat-Robert J(2).

Author information:
(1)Université Paris 5, Hôtel Dieu, 1, place du Parvis-Notre-Dame, 75181 Paris, 
France. Electronic address: lrobert5@orange.fr.
(2)Université Paris 5, Hôtel Dieu, 1, place du Parvis-Notre-Dame, 75181 Paris, 
France.

In this review, we present a short description of the history of stress in the 
medical literature followed by a recapitulation of its mechanisms, from the 
cellular to the organismal level and its role in aging. The medical importance 
of stress was first taken up as a subject of experimental medicine by 
physiologists, starting from Claude Bernard's concept of the stability of the 
"milieu intérieur", altered by stress, followed by others, culminating recently 
by the elucidation of its mechanisms at the cellular and molecular level. These 
studies showed that oxidative stress is one of the most important and most 
frequent form of biological aggression. Its accumulation over time is important 
for the burnout syndrome and for neuronal aging. There is however a positive 
side to it also, redox signaling plays an important role in the functional 
coordination of cellular activities. These mechanisms, still to be more 
completely evaluated, have to be taken in account for planning efficient 
protective therapeutic interventions.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.patbio.2015.07.008
PMID: 26321500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2015 Aug 11;6:122. doi:
10.3389/fendo.2015.00122.  eCollection 2015.

Modalities for Visualization of Cortical Bone Remodeling: The Past, Present, and 
Future.

Harrison KD(1), Cooper DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, University of Saskatchewan , 
Saskatoon, SK , Canada.

Bone's ability to respond to load-related phenomena and repair microdamage is 
achieved through the remodeling process, which renews bone by activating groups 
of cells known as basic multicellular units (BMUs). The products of BMUs, 
secondary osteons, have been extensively studied via classic two-dimensional 
techniques, which have provided a wealth of information on how histomorphology 
relates to skeletal structure and function. Remodeling is critical in 
maintaining healthy bone tissue; however, in osteoporotic bone, imbalanced 
resorption results in increased bone fragility and fracture. With increasing 
life expectancy, such degenerative bone diseases are a growing concern. The 
three-dimensional (3D) morphology of BMUs and their correlation to function, 
however, are not well-characterized and little is known about the specific 
mechanisms that initiate and regulate their activity within cortical bone. We 
believe a key limitation has been the lack of 3D information about BMU 
morphology and activity. Thus, this paper reviews methodologies for 3D 
investigation of cortical bone remodeling and, specifically, structures 
associated with BMU activity (resorption spaces) and the structures they create 
(secondary osteons), spanning from histology to modern ex vivo imaging 
modalities, culminating with the growing potential of in vivo imaging. This 
collection of papers focuses on the theme of "putting the 'why' back into bone 
architecture." Remodeling is one of two mechanisms "how" bone structure is 
dynamically modified and thus an improved 3D understanding of this fundamental 
process is crucial to ultimately understanding the "why."

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2015.00122
PMCID: PMC4531299
PMID: 26322017


627. Front Plant Sci. 2015 Aug 14;6:638. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2015.00638.
eCollection  2015.

Combined endophytic inoculants enhance nickel phytoextraction from serpentine 
soil in the hyperaccumulator Noccaea caerulescens.

Visioli G(1), Vamerali T(2), Mattarozzi M(3), Dramis L(1), Sanangelantoni AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Parma Parma, Italy.
(2)Department of Agronomy, Food, Natural Resources, Animals and the Environment, 
University of Padova Padova, Italy.
(3)Department of Chemistry, University of Parma Parma, Italy.

This study assesses the effects of specific bacterial endophytes on the 
phytoextraction capacity of the Ni-hyperaccumulator Noccaea caerulescens, 
spontaneously growing in a serpentine soil environment. Five metal-tolerant 
endophytes had already been selected for their high Ni tolerance (6 mM) and 
plant growth promoting ability. Here we demonstrate that individual bacterial 
inoculation is ineffective in enhancing Ni translocation and growth of N. 
caerulescens in serpentine soil, except for specific strains Ncr-1 and Ncr-8, 
belonging to the Arthrobacter and Microbacterium genera, which showed the 
highest indole acetic acid production and 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic 
acid-deaminase activity. Ncr-1 and Ncr-8 co-inoculation was even more efficient 
in promoting plant growth, soil Ni removal, and translocation of Ni, together 
with that of Fe, Co, and Cu. Bacteria of both strains densely colonized the root 
surfaces and intercellular spaces of leaf epidermal tissue. These two bacterial 
strains also turned out to stimulate root length, shoot biomass, and Ni uptake 
in Arabidopsis thaliana grown in MS agar medium supplemented with Ni. It is 
concluded that adaptation of N. caerulescens in highly Ni-contaminated 
serpentine soil can be enhanced by an integrated community of bacterial 
endophytes rather than by single strains; of the former, Arthrobacter and 
Microbacterium may be useful candidates for future phytoremediation trials in 
multiple metal-contaminated sites, with possible extension to 
non-hyperaccumulator plants.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2015.00638
PMCID: PMC4536374
PMID: 26322074


628. Drugs Context. 2015 Jul 28;4:212285. doi: 10.7573/dic.212285. eCollection
2015.

An assessment of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting direct costs in three 
EU countries.

Turini M(1), Piovesana V(1), Ruffo P(1), Ripellino C(2), Cataldo N(2).

Author information:
(1)Helsinn Healthcare SA, Lugano/Pazzallo, Switzerland;
(2)IMS Health Information Solutions Medical Research srl, Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) has been commonly 
reported as one of the most distressing adverse effects among treated patients 
with cancer. Inadequately treated, CINV can lead to increased resource 
utilization and severely impair patients' daily functioning and quality of life. 
Direct costs include acquisition cost of antiemetic drugs and rescue medication, 
administration devices, add-on treatments, such as hydration, and additional 
patient care, that is, nursing and physician time, unscheduled office visits, 
emergency room admissions, and, in some cases, extended hospitalization or 
readmission. There are many reports on the cost-effectiveness of antiemetic 
drugs, but information on the total cost per patient associated with CINV is 
limited. The costs associated with severe CINV episodes are considered 
responsible for the most significant part of the expenditures.
SCOPE: The aim of this study was to investigate the management of CINV episodes 
in three European health-care environments and to estimate direct costs 
associated with severe CINV episodes.
METHODS: An online survey addressed to Italian, German, and French oncologists 
and oncology nurses was performed. The survey included 41 questions about the 
management and the resource utilization for patients experiencing any CINV 
episode during the 6-month period preceding the survey. Furthermore, the cost 
associated with severe CINV episode management was estimated by adopting the 
National Health Service's perspective.
FINDINGS: A large proportion of patients receiving chemotherapy experienced a 
CINV episode (34.4% in Italy, 50.2% in France, and 40.4% in Germany); among 
those, 8.8% in Italy, 11.6% in France, and 19.2% in Germany experienced a severe 
CINV episode. Compared with Italy, Germany and France presented a greater 
hospitalization rate following an unplanned visit to the oncology ward or an 
emergency room access due to CINV. In Italy, the mean cost per patient with a 
severe CINV episode resulted in approximately €389, about half of the mean cost 
in France (€750) and a third of the mean cost in Germany (€1,017).
CONCLUSIONS: Severe CINV episodes requiring hospitalization, day hospital, or 
hospitalization extension involve a significant cost for the National Health 
Services; additional studies should be conducted in order to evaluate potential 
ways to offset these expenses.

DOI: 10.7573/dic.212285
PMCID: PMC4544273
PMID: 26322114


629. Ann Appl Stat. 2014 Dec;8(4):2268-2291. doi: 10.1214/14-AOAS769.

Longitudinal Mixed Membership Trajectory Models for Disability Survey Data.

Manrique-Vallier D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Indiana University.

We develop new methods for analyzing discrete multivariate longitudinal data and 
apply them to functional disability data on U.S. elderly population from the 
National Long Term Care Survey (NLTCS), 1982-2004. Our models build on a mixed 
membership framework, in which individuals are allowed multiple membership on a 
set of extreme profiles characterized by time-dependent trajectories of 
progression into disability. We also develop an extension that allows us to 
incorporate birth-cohort effects, in order to assess inter-generational changes. 
Applying these methods we find that most individuals follow trajectories that 
imply a late onset of disability, and that younger cohorts tend to develop 
disabilities at a later stage in life compared to their elders.

DOI: 10.1214/14-AOAS769
PMCID: PMC4548941
PMID: 26322146


630. J Water Health. 2015 Sep;13(3):662-70. doi: 10.2166/wh.2015.201.

Adoption of a microbial health-based target for Australian drinking water 
regulation.

O'Toole J(1), Sinclair M(1), Gibney K(1), Leder K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, School of Public Health 
and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 99 Commercial Road, Victoria 3004, 
Melbourne, Australia E-mail: joanne.otoole@monash.edu.

The health-based targets of 1 in 10,000 for infection and 10(-6) disability 
adjusted life years (DALYs) per person per year are increasingly being 
considered, or have already been adopted, to define microbial safety targets for 
water. The aim of this paper is to convey information about how these two 
targets compare by converting each of the target values to a common metric. The 
metric chosen for viral (rotavirus and norovirus) and protozoan 
(Cryptosporidium) reference pathogens is the estimated maximum number of annual 
drinking water-associated cases of acute diarrhoeal disease tolerated. For the 
reference bacterial pathogen Campylobacter, sequelae to acute diarrhoeal illness 
have also been considered in estimating the tolerable number of cases for the 
DALY target. Also investigated is whether non-compliance with targets would be 
detected as a waterborne disease outbreak by the health surveillance system in 
an extreme hypothetical situation whereby all tolerable cases per annum occurred 
as a single event. The paper highlights that verification of compliance with 
targets cannot be demonstrated by the absence of reported drinking 
water-associated outbreaks alone and concludes that introduction of a 
quantitative health-based outcome for drinking water in Australia would help 
improve water quality management by providing a common goal directly linked to 
health outcomes.

DOI: 10.2166/wh.2015.201
PMID: 26322752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Health Technol Assess. 2015 Aug;19(69):1-190. doi: 10.3310/hta19690.

The INTRABEAM® Photon Radiotherapy System for the adjuvant treatment of early 
breast cancer: a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Picot J(1), Copley V(1), Colquitt JL(1), Kalita N(1), Hartwell D(1), Bryant 
J(1).

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre (SHTAC), University of 
Southampton, Southampton, UK.

BACKGROUND: Initial treatment for early breast cancer is usually either 
breast-conserving surgery (BCS) or mastectomy. After BCS, whole-breast external 
beam radiotherapy (WB-EBRT) is the standard of care. A potential alternative to 
post-operative WB-EBRT is intraoperative radiation therapy delivered by the 
INTRABEAM(®) Photon Radiotherapy System (Carl Zeiss, Oberkochen, Germany) to the 
tissue adjacent to the resection cavity at the time of surgery.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
INTRABEAM for the adjuvant treatment of early breast cancer during surgical 
removal of the tumour.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic bibliographic databases, including MEDLINE, EMBASE and 
The Cochrane Library, were searched from inception to March 2014 for 
English-language articles. Bibliographies of articles, systematic reviews, 
clinical guidelines and the manufacturer's submission were also searched. The 
advisory group was contacted to identify additional evidence.
METHODS: Systematic reviews of clinical effectiveness, health-related quality of 
life and cost-effectiveness were conducted. Two reviewers independently screened 
titles and abstracts for eligibility. Inclusion criteria were applied to full 
texts of retrieved papers by one reviewer and checked by a second reviewer. Data 
extraction and quality assessment were undertaken by one reviewer and checked by 
a second reviewer, and differences in opinion were resolved through discussion 
at each stage. Clinical effectiveness studies were included if they were carried 
out in patients with early operable breast cancer. The intervention was the 
INTRABEAM system, which was compared with WB-EBRT, and study designs were 
randomised controlled trials (RCTs). Controlled clinical trials could be 
considered if data from available RCTs were incomplete (e.g. absence of data on 
outcomes of interest). A cost-utility decision-analytic model was developed to 
estimate the costs, benefits and cost-effectiveness of INTRABEAM compared with 
WB-EBRT for early operable breast cancer.
RESULTS: One non-inferiority RCT, TARGeted Intraoperative radioTherapy Alone 
(TARGIT-A), met the inclusion criteria for the review. The review found that 
local recurrence was slightly higher following INTRABEAM than WB-EBRT, but the 
difference did not exceed the 2.5% non-inferiority margin providing INTRABEAM 
was given at the same time as BCS. Overall survival was similar with both 
treatments. Statistically significant differences in complications were found 
for the occurrence of wound seroma requiring more than three aspirations (more 
frequent in the INTRABEAM group) and for a Radiation Therapy Oncology Group 
toxicity score of grade 3 or 4 (less frequent in the INTRABEAM group). 
Cost-effectiveness base-case analysis indicates that INTRABEAM is less expensive 
but also less effective than WB-EBRT because it is associated with lower total 
costs but fewer total quality-adjusted life-years gained. However, sensitivity 
analyses identified four model parameters that can cause a switch in the 
treatment option that is considered cost-effective.
LIMITATIONS: The base-case result from the model is subject to uncertainty 
because the disease progression parameters are largely drawn from the single 
available RCT. The RCT median follow-up of 2 years 5 months may be inadequate, 
particularly as the number of participants with local recurrence is low. The 
model is particularly sensitive to this parameter.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: A significant investment in INTRABEAM equipment 
and staff training (clinical and non-clinical) would be required to make this 
technology available across the NHS. Longer-term follow-up data from the 
TARGIT-A trial and analysis of registry data are required as results are 
currently based on a small number of events and economic modelling results are 
uncertain.
STUDY REGISTRATION: This study is registered as PROSPERO CRD42013006720.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme. Note that the economic model associated with this document is 
protected by intellectual property rights, which are owned by the University of 
Southampton. Anyone wishing to modify, adapt, translate, reverse engineer, 
decompile, dismantle or create derivative work based on the economic model must 
first seek the agreement of the property owners.

DOI: 10.3310/hta19690
PMCID: PMC4781621
PMID: 26323045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Asian J Androl. 2016 Jan-Feb;18(1):39-42. doi: 10.4103/1008-682X.159713.

Countries with high circumcision prevalence have lower prostate cancer 
mortality.

Wachtel MS, Yang S, Morris BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.

Comment in
    Asian J Androl. 2016 Nov-Dec;18(6):949.
    Asian J Androl. 2016 Nov-Dec;18(6):950-951.

The present study determined the relationship of male circumcision (MC) 
prevalence with prostatic carcinoma mortality rate in the 85 countries globally 
for which data on each were available. MC prevalence in different countries were 
obtained from a WHO report and allocated to WHO categories of 81%-100%, 20%-80%, 
and 0%-19%. Prostatic carcinoma mortality data were from Globoscan, gross 
national income per capita as well as male life expectancy were from a World 
Bank report, and percentages of Jews and Muslims by country were from the Pew 
Research Institute and the North American Jewish Data Bank. Negative binomial 
regression was used to estimate prostatic carcinoma mortality rate ratios. 
Compared to countries with 81%-100% MC prevalence, prostatic carcinoma mortality 
rate was higher in those with MC prevalence of 0%-19% (adjusted OR [adjOR] 
=1.82; 95% CI 1.14, 2.91) and 20%-80% (adjOR = 1.80; 95% CI, 1.16, 2.78). Higher 
Muslim percentage (adjOR = 0.92 [95% CI 0.87, 0.98] for each 10% increase) and 
longer life expectancy (adjOR = 0.82 [95% CI 0.72, 0.93] for each 5 additional 
years) were associated with lower prostatic carcinoma mortality. Higher gross 
national income per capita (adjOR = 1.10 [95% CI 1.01, 1.20] for double this 
parameter) correlated with higher mortality. Compared with American countries, 
prostatic carcinoma mortality rate was similar in Eastern Mediterranean 
countries (adjOR = 1.02; 95% CI 0.58, 1.76), but was lower in European (adjOR = 
0.60; 95% CI 0.50, 0.74) and Western Pacific countries (adjOR = 0.54, 95% CI 
0.37, 0.78). Thus, prostate cancer mortality is significantly lower in countries 
in which MC prevalence exceeds 80%.

DOI: 10.4103/1008-682X.159713
PMCID: PMC4736355
PMID: 26323559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Curr Hypertens Rep. 2015 Oct;17(10):81. doi: 10.1007/s11906-015-0591-8.

Review of New Statistical Techniques for Analysis of Cardiovascular Trial and 
Registry Data.

Amaratunga D(1), Cabrera J.

Author information:
(1)Rutgers Cardiovascular Institute, Rutgers University, Newark, NJ, USA.

Cardiovascular research generates a large variety of data including big and 
small datasets that pose interesting challenges to researchers in biomedical 
statistics. This paper covers a number of important methodology issues and the 
solutions that have been applied so far to try to solve them. The first issue is 
multiple testing and the use of false discovery rates to correct for 
multiplicity. This is illustrated with an application related to genotyping 
heart diseases. The second is measuring life extension at present and in the 
future. The third one is the issue of U and J curves and the questions they 
present. Finally, this paper studies visit-to-visit blood pressure variability 
as a predictor of cardiovascular events.

DOI: 10.1007/s11906-015-0591-8
PMID: 26323874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Ther Umsch. 2015 Sep;72(9):577-9. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000721.

[Telemedicine for the elderly- opportunities are increasing, critical factors 
have to be tackled!].

[Article in German]

Otto U(1), Tarnutzer S, Brettenhofer M.

Author information:
(1)1 Careum Forschung, Forschungsinstitut der Kalaidos FH Gesundheit, Zürich.

An autonomous life and quality .of life are essential objectives for the use of 
telemedicine among the elderly population. To make aging in place possible the 
elderly peoples' homes have to be embedded in an integrated health and aged care 
system. In addition to this, it is necessary to create coproduction with the 
patients and their relatives. However, to meet those targets it is required to 
achieve enormous rethinking and widely acceptance of telemedicine among all 
health care professionals. Medical institutions have to undergo vast changes 
towards a patient-centered health care delivery and an increased intersectoral 
and interdisciplinary collaboration. Political will for fair and just allocation 
processes is essential to avoid a potential digital divide among the population, 
e.g. for socioeconomic disadvantaged population groups or people living in rural 
areas. Therefore,flanking preparing measures and continuous support through 
easily accessible contact persons are essential. According adaptations of 
financial models and an extension of health insurance benefits will be 
necessary.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000721
PMID: 26323957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
