
Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of North Carolina, Greensboro, NC, USA.
(2)Biologie I, Universität Regensburg, Regensburg, Germany.

The central trade-off between reproduction and longevity dominates most species' 
life history. However, no mortality cost of reproduction is apparent in eusocial 
species, particularly social insects in the order Hymenoptera: one or a few 
individuals (typically referred to as queens) in a group specialize on 
reproduction and are generally longer lived than all other group members 
(typically referred to as workers), despite having the same genome. However, it 
is unclear whether this survival advantage is due to social facilitation by the 
group or an intrinsic, individual property. Furthermore, it is unknown whether 
the correlation between reproduction and longevity is due to a direct 
mechanistic link or an indirect consequence of the social role of the 
reproductives. To begin addressing these questions, we performed a comparison of 
queen and worker longevity in the ant Cardiocondyla obscurior under social 
isolation conditions. Survival of single queens and workers was compared under 
laboratory conditions, monitoring and controlling for brood production. Our 
results indicate that there is no intrinsic survival advantage of queens 
relative to workers unless individuals are becoming reproductively active. This 
interactive effect of caste and reproduction on life expectancy outside of the 
normal social context suggests that the positive correlation between 
reproduction and longevity in social insect queens is due to a direct link that 
can activate intrinsic survival mechanisms to ensure queen longevity.

© 2015 European Society For Evolutionary Biology. Journal of Evolutionary 
Biology © 2015 European Society For Evolutionary Biology.

DOI: 10.1111/jeb.12749
PMCID: PMC5540307
PMID: 26348543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


704. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2015 Oct;57:238-51. doi:
10.1016/j.neubiorev.2015.09.002.  Epub 2015 Sep 6.

The problem of genotype and sex differences in life expectancy in transgenic AD 
mice.

Rae EA(1), Brown RE(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, Dalhousie University, Halifax, 
Nova Scotia B3H 4R2, Canada. Electronic address: eric.rae@dal.ca.
(2)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, Dalhousie University, Halifax, 
Nova Scotia B3H 4R2, Canada. Electronic address: rebrown@dal.ca.

The lifespan of mice shows genotype, sex and laboratory effects, but little is 
known about genotype or sex differences in life expectancy of mouse models of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). This paper examines the lifespan of males and females 
of different mouse models of AD and their wildtype strains. Genotype and sex 
dependent differences in longevity have important implications for designing 
experiments with Alzheimer's mouse models, comparing genotype and sex 
differences in aging mouse models, designing drug treatment regimes and the 
translation of mouse data to human clinical studies. We conclude that the 
concept of aging and age-related disorders in mice must be reconsidered based on 
genotype and sex differences in mouse life expectancy data. Use of concepts such 
as relative age, prospective lifespan and proportion of lifespan remaining 
should be included in studies of age-related changes in mouse brains and 
behavior. Finally, measures such as the Frailty Index, which is independent of 
chronological age might be used to determine a common scale of aging for all 
mouse strains.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2015.09.002
PMID: 26348702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. JAMA. 2015 Sep 8;314(10):981-2. doi: 10.1001/jama.2015.9593.

Probing Our Moral Values in Health Care: The Pricing of Specialty Drugs.

Reinhardt U(1).

Author information:
(1)Uwe Reinhardt, PhD, James Madison professor of political economy and of 
economics at Princeton University, where he teaches health economics, 
comparative health systems, general microeconomics, and financial management. Dr 
Reinhardt is also the codirector.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2015.9593
PMID: 26348738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. J Evol Biol. 2015 Dec;28(12):2275-84. doi: 10.1111/jeb.12752. Epub 2015 Oct
13.

Within-species variation in long-term trajectories of growth, fecundity and 
mortality in the Collembola Folsomia candida.

Mallard F(1), Farina M(1), Tully T(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institut d'écologie et des sciences de l'environnement (IEES), Sorbonne 
Universités, UPMC Univ, Paris 06, CNRS, IRD, INRA, Paris, France.
(2)ESPE de l'académie de Paris, Sorbonne Universités, Paris-Sorbonne Univ Paris 
04, Paris, France.

Senescence--the progressive deterioration of organisms with age--affects many 
traits of which survival and reproduction are the most commonly studied. Recent 
comparative studies have revealed a remarkable amount of variation in the 
patterns of ageing across the tree of life. This between-species diversity 
raises many questions about the evolution of senescence and of the shapes of the 
life-history age trajectories. Here, we study how the different components of 
the shapes of these life-history age trajectories can vary within a single 
species to shed light on the possible constraints involved in their evolution. 
To do so, we closely followed in controlled laboratory conditions, and for more 
than 450 days, the mortality, body length and fecundity of small cohorts of two 
clonal lineages of the Collembola Folsomia candida. We studied three components 
of the adult mortality trajectory: the baseline mortality, onset and speed of 
senescence. We found that they can differ between strains of a single species in 
such a way that, remarkably, an increased life expectancy is not synonymous with 
a delayed senescence: the strain that grows bigger has the longest life 
expectancy but suffers from a precocious senescence. We observed marked 
differences between the strains in the asymptotic body length and reproductive 
investment. More generally, our results highlight the importance of finely 
describing the long-term trajectories of several life-history traits in order to 
better understand how the patterns of senescence have been shaped by natural 
selection.

© 2015 European Society For Evolutionary Biology. Journal of Evolutionary 
Biology © 2015 European Society For Evolutionary Biology.

DOI: 10.1111/jeb.12752
PMID: 26348879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. J Sci Food Agric. 2016 Jun;96(8):2851-60. doi: 10.1002/jsfa.7454. Epub 2015
Oct  7.

Effect of postharvest ultraviolet-C treatment on the proteome changes in fresh 
cut mango (Mangifera indica L. cv. Chokanan).

George DS(1), Razali Z(1), Santhirasegaram V(1), Somasundram C(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biological Sciences & Centre for Research in Biotechnology for 
Agriculture (CEBAR), Faculty of Science, University of Malaya, 50603, Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia.

BACKGROUND: Postharvest treatments of fruits using techniques such as 
ultraviolet-C have been linked with maintenance of the fruit quality as well as 
shelf-life extension. However, the effects of this treatment on the quality of 
fruits on a proteomic level remain unclear. This study was conducted in order to 
understand the response of mango fruit to postharvest UV-C irradiation.
RESULTS: Approximately 380 reproducible spots were detected following 
two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Through gel analysis, 24 spots were 
observed to be differentially expressed in UV-C treated fruits and 20 were 
successfully identified via LCMS/MS. Postharvest UV-C treatment resulted in 
degradative effects on these identified proteins of which 40% were related to 
stress response, 45% to energy and metabolism and 15% to ripening and 
senescence. In addition, quality and shelf-life analysis of control and 
irradiated mangoes was evaluated. UV-C was found to be successful in retention 
of quality and extension of shelf-life up to 15 days. Furthermore, UV-C was also 
successful in increasing antioxidants (total flavonoid, reducing power and ABTS 
scavenging activity) in mangoes.
CONCLUSION: This study provides an overview of the effects of UV-C treatment on 
the quality of mango on a proteomic level as well as the potential of this 
treatment in shelf-life extension of fresh-cut fruits. © 2015 Society of 
Chemical Industry.

© 2015 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/jsfa.7454
PMID: 26350493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Ecotoxicology. 2015 Nov;24(9):1996-2008. doi: 10.1007/s10646-015-1535-4.
Epub  2015 Sep 9.

The use of ECAS in plant protection: a green and efficient antimicrobial 
approach that primes selected defense genes.

Zarattini M(1), De Bastiani M(1), Bernacchia G(2)(3), Ferro S(4), De Battisti 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, University of Ferrara, Via 
Luigi Borsari 46, 44121, Ferrara, Italy.
(2)Department of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, University of Ferrara, Via 
Luigi Borsari 46, 44121, Ferrara, Italy. bhg@unife.it.
(3)Becario Prometeo, Universidad Politécnica Salesiana, Calle Vieja 12-30 y Elia 
Liut, Casilla 2074, Cuenca, Ecuador. bhg@unife.it.
(4)Department of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, University of Ferrara, Via 
Luigi Borsari 46, 44121, Ferrara, Italy. fre@unife.it.

The use of highly polluting chemicals for plant and crop protection is one of 
the components of the negative environmental impact of agricultural activities. 
In the present paper, an environmentally friendly alternative to pesticide 
application has been studied, based on the so-called electrochemically activated 
solutions (ECAS). Experiments have been carried out, by applying ECAS having 
different contents of active ingredients, on tobacco plants at a laboratory 
scale and on apple trees at fruit garden scale. The results, accumulated during 
a couple of years, have shown that properly selected dilute solutions of 
chlorides, once activated by an electrochemical treatment, exhibit a very 
effective protecting action of plants, irrespective of their nature. Extension 
of the research has shown that the observed effect is the result of two distinct 
factors: the expected anti-microbial action of the electrochemically synthesized 
oxidants, and an unexpected priming of immune plant defenses, which is clearly 
due to the treatment with ECAS. Interestingly, the repetition of ECAS 
application triggers an even stronger activation of defense genes. No oxidative 
damages, due to the use of the activated solutions, could be detected.

DOI: 10.1007/s10646-015-1535-4
PMID: 26350548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. J Med Life. 2015 Jul-Sep;8(3):305-14.

Project for the National Program of Early Diagnosis of Endometrial Cancer Part 
I.

Bohîlțea RE(1), Ancăr V(1), Cirstoiu MM(1), Rădoi V(1), Bohîlțea LC(1), 
Furtunescu F(1).

Author information:
(1)"Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania.

RATIONALE: Endometrial cancer recorded a peak incidence in ages 60-64 years in 
Romania, reaching in 2013 the average value of 8.06/ 100,000 women, and 15.97/ 
100,000 women within the highest risk age range, having in recent years an 
increasing trend, being higher in urban than in rural population. Annually, 
approximately 800 new cases are registered in our country. The estimated 
lifetime risk of a woman to develop endometrial cancer is of about 1,03%. Based 
on an abnormal uterine bleeding, 35% of the endometrial cancers are diagnosed in 
an advanced stage of the disease, with significantly diminished lifetime 
expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: Drafting a national program for the early diagnosis of endometrial 
cancer.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We proposed a standardization of the diagnostic steps and 
focused on 4 key elements for the early diagnosis of endometrial cancer: 
investigation of abnormal uterine bleeding occurring in pre/ post-menopausal 
women, investigating features/ anomalies of cervical cytology examination, 
diagnosis, treatment and proper monitoring of precursor endometrial lesions or 
cancer associated endometrial lesions and screening high risk populations (Lynch 
syndrome, Cowden syndrome).
DISCUSSION: Improving medical practice based on diagnostic algorithms addresses 
the four risk groups, by improving information system reporting and record 
keeping. Improving addressability cases by increasing the health education of 
the population will increase the rate of diagnosis of endometrial cancer in the 
early stages of the disease.
ABBREVIATIONS: ACOG = American Society of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, ASCCP 
= American Society for Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology, PATT = Partial 
Activated Thromboplastin Time, BRCA = Breast Cancer Gene, CT = Computerized 
Tomography, IFGO = International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics, HLG = 
Hemoleucogram, HNPCC = Hereditary Nonpolyposis Colorectal Cancer (Lynch 
syndrome), IHC = Immunohistochemistry, BMI = Body Mass Index, INR = 
International Normalized Ratio, MSI = Microsatellites instability, MSI-H/ MSI-L 
= high (positive test)/ low (negative test) microsatellites instability, WHO = 
World Health Organization, PCR = Polymerase chain reaction, MRI = Magnetic 
Resonance Imaging, SGO = Society of Gynecologic Oncologists, SHG = 
Sonohysterography, SRU = Society of Radiologists in Ultrasound, TQ = Time Quick, 
BT = Bleeding Time, TVUS = Transvaginal ultrasound, USPIO = Ultrasmall 
superparamagnetic iron oxide.

PMCID: PMC4556910
PMID: 26351531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Curr Opin Cardiol. 2015 Nov;30(6):636-42. doi: 10.1097/HCO.0000000000000222.

Coronary artery bypass grafting in octogenarians: only when percutaneous 
coronary intervention is not feasible?

Nicolini F(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Surgery Unit, University of Parma, Parma, Italy.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The aim of this study was to review recent literature 
reporting the results of coronary revascularization by percutaneous coronary 
intervention (PCI) or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in patients older 
than 80 years.
RECENT FINDINGS: The review of recent studies on octogenarians demonstrates a 
surgical CABG advantage in the case of patients with increasing baseline 
coronary risk, such as severe multivessel disease, chronic total occlusions, and 
left ventricular dysfunction. PCI seems to be more appropriate for less severe 
degree and distribution of coronary lesions, and for subgroups of patients with 
higher surgical risk, such as acute coronary syndromes, reoperations, 
malignancy, dementia, poor mobility, frailty, and serious comorbidities 
contraindicating extracorporeal circulation.
SUMMARY: It is not the case that CABG is indicated only when there are 
contraindications to PCI. CABG confers more benefit than PCI in patients with 
increasing baseline cardiac risk, in the absence of serious systemic diseases 
that can reasonably reduce their life expectancy.CABG and PCI, with proper 
selection, should be considered complementary rather than competitive procedures 
in the therapy of octogenarians affected by coronary artery disease.

DOI: 10.1097/HCO.0000000000000222
PMID: 26352246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. PLoS One. 2015 Sep 9;10(9):e0137065. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0137065. 
eCollection 2015.

Pharmacokinetic and Pharmacodynamic Characterisation of an Anti-Mouse TNF 
Receptor 1 Domain Antibody Formatted for In Vivo Half-Life Extension.

Goodall LJ(1), Ovecka M(1), Rycroft D(1), Friel SL(1), Sanderson A(1), Mistry 
P(2), Davies ML(1), Stoop AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Biopharm Innovation Unit, Biopharm R&D, GlaxoSmithKline, Stevenage, United 
Kingdom.
(2)R&D Projects, Clinical Platforms and Sciences, GlaxoSmithKline, Stevenage, 
United Kingdom.

Tumour Necrosis Factor-α (TNF-α) inhibition has been transformational in the 
treatment of patients with inflammatory disease, e.g. rheumatoid arthritis. 
Intriguingly, TNF-α signals through two receptors, TNFR1 and TNFR2, which have 
been associated with detrimental inflammatory and beneficial immune-regulatory 
processes, respectively. To investigate if selective TNFR1 inhibition might 
provide benefits over pan TNF-α inhibition, tools to investigate the potential 
impact of pharmacological intervention are needed. Receptor-deficient mice have 
been very insightful, but are not reversible and could distort receptor 
cross-talk, while inhibitory anti-TNFR1 monoclonal antibodies have a propensity 
to induce receptor agonism. Therefore, we set out to characterise a monovalent 
anti-TNFR1 domain antibody (dAb) formatted for in vivo use. The mouse TNFR1 
antagonist (DMS5540) is a genetic fusion product of an anti-TNFR1 dAb with an 
albumin-binding dAb (AlbudAb). It bound mouse TNFR1, but not human TNFR1, and 
was an antagonist of TNF-α-mediated cytotoxicity in a L929 cell assay. 
Surprisingly, the dAb did not compete with TNF-α for TNFR1-binding. This was 
supported by additional data showing the anti-TNFR1 epitope mapped to a single 
residue in the first domain of TNFR1. Pharmacokinetic studies of DMS5540 in mice 
over three doses (0.1, 1.0 and 10 mg/kg) confirmed extended in vivo half-life, 
mediated by the AlbudAb, and demonstrated non-linear clearance of DMS5540. 
Target engagement was further confirmed by dose-dependent increases in total 
soluble TNFR1 levels. Functional in vivo activity was demonstrated in a mouse 
challenge study, where DMS5540 provided dose-dependent inhibition of serum IL-6 
increases in response to bolus mouse TNF-α injections. Hence, DMS5540 is a 
potent mouse TNFR1 antagonist with in vivo pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic 
properties compatible with use in pre-clinical disease models and could provide 
a useful tool to dissect the individual contributions of TNFR1 and TNFR2 in 
homeostasis and disease.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0137065
PMCID: PMC4564187
PMID: 26352810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have read the 
journal's policy and have the following conflicts: All authors were employees of 
GlaxoSmithKline at the time this work was carried out and received GSK shares as 
part of their remuneration. AS and AAS are named inventors on patents assigned 
to GlaxoSmithKline relating to TNFR1 antagonist domain antibodies 
(WO2010/094720, WO2011/051217 and WO2012/172070). All authors were employees of 
GlaxoSmithKline at the time this work was carried out. All relevant patents have 
been declared, and there are no products in development or marketed products to 
declare. This does not alter the authors’ adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies 
on sharing data and materials, as detailed online in the guide for authors.


712. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2015 Jan;31(4):264-70. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462315000409. Epub 2015 Sep 10.

WILLINGNESS TO PAY FOR LUNG CANCER TREATMENT: PATIENT VERSUS GENERAL PUBLIC 
VALUES.

Thongprasert S(1), Crawford B(2), Sakulbumrungsil R(3), Chaiyakunapruk N(4), 
Petcharapiruch S(5), Leartsakulpanitch J(5), Permsuwan U(1).

Author information:
(1)Chiang Mai University.
(2)Adelphi Valuesbcrawford@jp.imshealth.com.
(3)Chulalongkorn University.
(4)Monash University Sunway Campus.
(5)Pfizer(Thailand).

Erratum in
    Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2015 Jan;31(4):271.

OBJECTIVES: Lung cancer has been the most common cancer since 1985, accounting 
for 12-13 percent of cancer cases worldwide. Newer targeted therapies with 
potential increased survival benefits may not be affordable to patients. Many 
countries use arbitrary thresholds to determine whether a medical intervention 
is cost-effective. As such, many effective, albeit expensive, therapies are not 
being reimbursed. To understand the value placed on effective therapies, this 
study evaluates the patient and public willingness to pay (WTP) for a 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) for lung cancer treatments using Thailand as 
an example.
METHODS: A total of 300 subjects responded to hypothetical lung cancer health 
states, described by three levels of severity and two levels of side effects, 
and provided their valuation of the level of quality of life and their WTP to 
improve from one state to another.
RESULTS: The patients with the lowest income and general public were willing to 
pay more than twice the threshold for acceptability in Thailand (US Dollar 
5,123/QALY [Thai Baht 160,000/QALY]). This increased significantly by wealth 
category. Patients' WTP was associated with quality of life, financial 
difficulties, health insurance, diarrhea, and wealth.
CONCLUSIONS: The current study highlights the value patients and general public 
place on effective lung cancer therapies.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462315000409
PMID: 26353902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. JIMD Rep. 2016;26:103-13. doi: 10.1007/8904_2015_449. Epub 2015 Sep 10.

Causes of Death in Adults with Mitochondrial Disease.

Barends M(1)(2), Verschuren L(1)(2), Morava E(3), Nesbitt V(2), Turnbull D(2), 
McFarland R(4).

Author information:
(1)Nijmegen Centre for Mitochondrial Disorders and Department of Pediatrics, 
Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(2)Wellcome Trust Centre for Mitochondrial Research, Institute for Ageing and 
Health, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(3)Hayward Genetics Center SL#31, Tulane University Medical School, New Orleans, 
LA, USA.
(4)Wellcome Trust Centre for Mitochondrial Research, Institute for Ageing and 
Health, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK. 
Robert.mcfarland@ncl.ac.uk.

INTRODUCTION: Mitochondrial diseases are a clinically, biochemically and 
genetically heterogeneous group of disorders with a variable age of onset and 
rate of disease progression. It might therefore be expected that this variation 
be reflected in the age and cause of death. However, to date, little has been 
reported regarding the 'end-of-life' period and causes of death in mitochondrial 
disease patients. For some specific syndromes, the associated clinical problems 
might predict the cause of death, but for many patients, it remains difficult to 
provide an accurate prognosis.
AIMS: To describe a retrospective cohort of adult mitochondrial disease patients 
who had attended the NHS Highly Specialised Services for Rare Mitochondrial 
Diseases in Newcastle upon Tyne (UK), evaluate life expectancy and causes of 
death and assess the consequences for daily patient care.
METHODS: All deceased adult patients cared for at this centre over a period of 
10 years were included in the study. Patient history, data on laboratory 
findings, biochemical investigations and genetic studies were analysed 
retrospectively.
RESULTS: A total of 30 adult mitochondrial patients died within the time period 
of the study. The main mitochondrial disease-related causes of death in this 
patient cohort were respiratory failure, cardiac failure and acute cerebral 
incidents such as seizures and strokes. In almost half of the patients, the 
cause of death remained unknown. Based on our study, we present recommendations 
regarding the care of patients with mitochondrial disease.

DOI: 10.1007/8904_2015_449
PMCID: PMC4864865
PMID: 26354038


714. J Pediatr (Rio J). 2015 Nov-Dec;91(6 Suppl 1):S11-25. doi: 
10.1016/j.jped.2015.06.003. Epub 2015 Sep 4.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases in children.

Ribeiro JD(1), Fischer GB(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Faculdade de Ciências Médicas (FCM), Universidade 
Estadual de Campinas (Unicamp), Campinas, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: 
jdirceuribeiro@gmail.com.
(2)Universidade Federal de Ciências da Saúde de Porto Alegre (UFCSPA), Porto 
Alegre, RS, Brazil.

OBJECTIVES: To verify and describe the main events related to the diagnosis and 
management of chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases in children (COPDC) and 
adolescents, considering the interrelated physiopathology, genetic, and 
environmental characteristics.
SOURCES: Relevant literature from PubMed was selected and reviewed.
SUMMARY OF THE FINDINGS: COPDC have an environmental and/or genetic origin and 
its manifestation has manifold genotypes, phenotypes, and endotypes. Although 
COPDC has no cure, it can be clinically controlled. Chronic cough is the main 
symptom and bronchiectasis can be present in several COPDC patients. The 
management of COPDC is more effective if based on guidelines and when treatment 
regimen adherence is promoted. Oral and inhaled corticosteroids, 
bronchodilators, inhaled antibiotics, and treatment of pulmonary exacerbation 
(PE) are the bases of COPDC management, and should be individualized for each 
patient.
CONCLUSIONS: Correct diagnosis and knowledge of risk factors and comorbidities 
are essential in COPDC management. Procedures and drugs used should be based on 
specific guidelines for each COPDC case. Treatment adherence is critical to 
obtain the benefits of management. COPDC clinical control must be evaluated by 
the decrease in PEs, improved quality of life, reduction of pulmonary function 
loss, and lung structural damage. For most cases of COPDC, monitoring by 
interdisciplinary teams in specialized reference centers with surveillance 
strategies and continuous care leads to better outcomes, which must be evaluated 
by decreasing pulmonary function damage and deterioration, better prognosis, 
better quality life, and increased life expectancy.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Editora Ltda.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jped.2015.06.003
PMID: 26354868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. J Menopausal Med. 2015 Aug;21(2):72-8. doi: 10.6118/jmm.2015.21.2.72. Epub
2015  Aug 28.

Current Situation of Postmenopausal Grandmothers Raising Their Grandchildren.

Jin JY(1), Kim TH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Soonchunhyang University College of Medicine, 
Bucheon, Korea.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Soonchunhyang University College of 
Medicine, Bucheon, Korea.

As the average life expectancy of women increases, the family and social roles 
of postmenopausal women have become more important. With the growing number of 
dual-income households, postmenopausal grandmothers occupy a large role in 
child-rearing. Postmenopausal women mainly experience social changes as a family 
member along with personal changes. Postmenopausal women face changes in 
physical and mental aspects due to drastic hormonal changes. Grandmothers 
sharing the burden of raising children are actually encountering a number of 
challenges while dealing with hardships to adapt to physical and mental changes 
at the same time. It is thought to be important to understand the impact of 
raising grandchildren on physical and mental conditions among grandmothers 
experiencing hardships between social reality and personal changes from medical 
perspective based on sociological studies. Focusing mainly on studies on related 
fields, this study aims to investigate personal and social supports from medical 
perspective and to device practical measures.

DOI: 10.6118/jmm.2015.21.2.72
PMCID: PMC4561743
PMID: 26355272

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: No potential conflict of 
interest relevant to this article was reported.


716. Pancreas. 2015 Oct;44(7):1065-71. doi: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000000451.

The Long-Term Impact of Autoimmune Pancreatitis on Pancreatic Function, Quality 
of Life, and Life Expectancy.

Buijs J(1), Cahen DL, van Heerde MJ, Rauws EA, de Buy Wenniger LJ, Hansen BE, 
Biermann K, Verheij J, Vleggaar FP, Brink MA, Beuers UH, van Buuren HR, Bruno 
MJ.

Author information:
(1)From the*Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Erasmus University 
Medical Center, Rotterdam; †Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, 
Academic Medical Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam; Departments of ‡Public Health and 
§Pathology, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam; ∥Department of 
Pathology, Academic Medical Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam; ¶Department of 
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht; and 
#Department of Gastroenterology, Meander Medical Center, Amersfoort, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the long-term outcome of autoimmune pancreatitis.
METHODS: Patients with at least 2 years of follow-up were included. Information 
was collected regarding disease characteristics, treatment outcome, diagnosed 
malignancies, and mortality. In addition, pancreatic function and quality of 
life were assessed prospectively.
RESULTS: 107 patients were included (87% men, 90% with type 1), with a median 
follow-up of 74 (interquartile range, 49-108) months. One third was operated for 
suspected pancreatic cancer (32%). Most patients were (successfully) treated 
with steroids (83%), but relapses were common (52%), for which no risk factors 
could be identified. Pancreatic carcinoma was not observed.Prospective data were 
obtained from 64%, as 17% had died, 7% were lost to follow-up, and 13% refused 
to participate. After a median of 75 (interquartile range, 50-106) months, 46% 
still used active treatment. Exocrine and endocrine insufficiencies were highly 
prevalent (82% and 57%, respectively). Quality of life and survival were not 
impaired, as compared with a reference population.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite an excellent initial treatment response, relapses are 
common, even in type 2, and almost half of the patients require maintenance 
therapy. Pancreatic insufficiency is highly prevalent, which calls for active 
screening. Pancreatic cancer was not observed, and quality of life and survival 
are not impaired.

DOI: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000000451
PMID: 26355549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Biometrics. 2016 Mar;72(1):232-41. doi: 10.1111/biom.12378. Epub 2015 Sep
10.

Confidence intervals for the ratio of two median residual lifetimes with 
left-truncated and right-censored data.

Tsai TH(1), Tsai WY(2), Chi Y(1), Chang SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Columbia University, New York City, U.S.A.

The confidence intervals for the ratio of two median residual lifetimes are 
developed for left-truncated and right-censored data. The approach of Su and Wei 
(1993) is first extended by replacing the Kaplan-Meier survival estimator with 
the estimator of the conditional survival function (Lynden-Bell, 1971). This 
procedure does not involve a nonparametric estimation of the probability density 
function of the failure time. However, the Su and Wei type confidence intervals 
are very conservative even for larger sample size. Therefore, this article 
proposes an alternative confidence interval for the ratio of two median residual 
lifetimes, which is not only without nonparametric estimation of the density 
function of failure times but is also computationally simpler than the Su and 
Wei type confidence interval. A simulation study is conducted to examine the 
accuracy of these confidence intervals and the implementation of these 
confidence intervals to two real data sets is illustrated.

© 2015, The International Biometric Society.

DOI: 10.1111/biom.12378
PMID: 26355697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. PLoS One. 2015 Sep 10;10(9):e0136821. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0136821. 
eCollection 2015.

Program Code Generator for Cardiac Electrophysiology Simulation with Automatic 
PDE Boundary Condition Handling.

Punzalan FR(1), Kunieda Y(2), Amano A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioinformatics, College of Life Sciences, Ritsumeikan 
University, Shiga, Japan.
(2)Department of Computer Science, College of Information Science and 
Engineering, Ritsumeikan University, Shiga, Japan.

Clinical and experimental studies involving human hearts can have certain 
limitations. Methods such as computer simulations can be an important 
alternative or supplemental tool. Physiological simulation at the tissue or 
organ level typically involves the handling of partial differential equations 
(PDEs). Boundary conditions and distributed parameters, such as those used in 
pharmacokinetics simulation, add to the complexity of the PDE solution. These 
factors can tailor PDE solutions and their corresponding program code to 
specific problems. Boundary condition and parameter changes in the customized 
code are usually prone to errors and time-consuming. We propose a general 
approach for handling PDEs and boundary conditions in computational models using 
a replacement scheme for discretization. This study is an extension of a program 
generator that we introduced in a previous publication. The program generator 
can generate code for multi-cell simulations of cardiac electrophysiology. 
Improvements to the system allow it to handle simultaneous equations in the 
biological function model as well as implicit PDE numerical schemes. The 
replacement scheme involves substituting all partial differential terms with 
numerical solution equations. Once the model and boundary equations are 
discretized with the numerical solution scheme, instances of the equations are 
generated to undergo dependency analysis. The result of the dependency analysis 
is then used to generate the program code. The resulting program code are in 
Java or C programming language. To validate the automatic handling of boundary 
conditions in the program code generator, we generated simulation code using the 
FHN, Luo-Rudy 1, and Hund-Rudy cell models and run cell-to-cell coupling and 
action potential propagation simulations. One of the simulations is based on a 
published experiment and simulation results are compared with the experimental 
data. We conclude that the proposed program code generator can be used to 
generate code for physiological simulations and provides a tool for studying 
cardiac electrophysiology.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0136821
PMCID: PMC4565589
PMID: 26356082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


719. Muscle Nerve. 2016 Apr;53(4):522-7. doi: 10.1002/mus.24902. Epub 2015 Oct
10.

Ultrasonographic diaphragm thickness correlates with compound muscle action 
potential amplitude and forced vital capacity.

Noda Y(1), Sekiguchi K(1), Kohara N(2), Kanda F(1), Toda T(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurology, Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine, 7-5-2 
Kusunoki-cho, Chou-ku, Kobe City, Hyogo, 650-0017, Japan.
(2)Division of Neurology, Kobe City Medical Center General Hospital, Kobe City, 
Hyogo, Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Noninvasive evaluation of respiratory function in patients with 
various neuromuscular disorders is important for predicting life expectancy.
METHODS: We performed B-mode ultrasonography (USG) and nerve conduction studies 
in 37 patients (16 had amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; 11, myopathy; and 10, 
neuropathy) and 10 controls. USG of the diaphragm was performed in the supine 
position using a linear probe over the intercostal space at the anterior 
axillary line. Diaphragm muscle thickness was measured at end-expiration. The 
amplitude of diaphragm compound muscle action potentials (CMAP) was obtained by 
phrenic nerve stimulation with a surface electrode. Respiratory function was 
measured with standard pulmonary function tests including forced vital capacity 
(FVC).
RESULTS: Diaphragm thickness was significantly correlated with FVC (r = 0.74) 
and CMAP amplitude (r = 0.53).
CONCLUSIONS: Diaphragm USG is useful for objective evaluation of pulmonary 
function in neuromuscular disorders without requiring undue patient effort or 
cooperation.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mus.24902
PMID: 26357011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. J Clin Transl Hepatol. 2014 Mar;2(1):45-52. doi: 10.14218/JCTH.2013.00021.
Epub  2014 Mar 15.

A Review of the Challenges Associated with the Diagnosis and Therapy of Primary 
Sclerosing Cholangitis.

Saadi M(1), Yu C(1), Othman MO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Texas 
Tech University Health Science Center-Paul L. Foster School of Medicine, El 
Paso, TX, USA.

Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is a chronic and progressive cholestatic 
liver disease that often leads to the development of cirrhosis. Complications of 
PSC include pruritus, fatigue, vitamin deficiencies, metabolic bone disease, 
dominant biliary strictures, gallstones, and hepatobiliary malignancies, most 
commonly cholangiocarcinoma (CCA). Despite the presumed autoimmune etiology of 
PSC, a clear benefit from immunosuppressive agents has not yet been established, 
and their use is limited by their side effects. Endoscopy is required in 
evaluation of biliary strictures in PSC to rule out the possibility of CCA. 
Liver transplantation is currently the only life-extending therapy for patients 
with end-stage disease. However, disease recurrence can be a source of morbidity 
and mortality as transplanted patients survive longer. Further studies are 
needed to develop an optimal therapeutic strategy for patients with PSC to 
decrease the incidence of complications of the disease, to decrease the need for 
transplantation, and to extend life expectancy.

DOI: 10.14218/JCTH.2013.00021
PMCID: PMC4548359
PMID: 26357617

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None721. AIDS Care. 2016;28(2):242-6. doi: 10.1080/09540121.2015.1074653. Epub 2015
Sep  11.

Lifelong antiretroviral therapy or HIV cure: The benefits for the individual 
patient.

Buell KG(1), Chung C(1), Chaudhry Z(1), Puri A(1), Nawab K(1), Ravindran RP(1).

Author information:
(1)a Imperial College School of Medicine , Imperial College London , London SW7 
2AZ , UK.

There are an estimated 35 million people living with human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV) globally, 19 million of whom are unaware of their HIV status and, in 
the absence of antiretroviral therapy (ART), will have a shortened life 
expectancy. Although ART remains the "gold standard" for treatment of HIV 
infection, the requirement for lifelong treatment poses multiple challenges for 
the patient. These include stigma, an untenable pill burden, side effects, and 
the threat of viral resistance in the case of non-compliance. This review 
evaluates the challenges of accessing, delivering, and sustaining ART for people 
living with HIV and will discuss the case for pursuing a goal of HIV cure, the 
potential benefits of such a cure for the individual patient, and the current 
potential candidates for such a cure.

DOI: 10.1080/09540121.2015.1074653
PMID: 26357912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Parasitol Res. 2016 Jan;115(1):107-21. doi: 10.1007/s00436-015-4726-2. Epub
2015  Sep 11.

DNA barcoding and molecular evolution of mosquito vectors of medical and 
veterinary importance.

Murugan K(1), Vadivalagan C(1), Karthika P(2), Panneerselvam C(1), Paulpandi 
M(1), Subramaniam J(1), Wei H(3), Aziz AT(4), Alsalhi MS(5), Devanesan S(5), 
Nicoletti M(6), Paramasivan R(7), Parajulee MN(8), Benelli G(9).

Author information:
(1)Division of Entomology, Department of Zoology, School of Life Sciences, 
Bharathiar University, Coimbatore, 641 046, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Department of Zoology, Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher 
Education for Women, Coimbatore, 641 043, Tamil Nadu, India.
(3)Institute of Plant Protection, Fujian Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Fuzhou, 350013, Fujian, People's Republic of China.
(4)Faculty of Science, Department of Biology, University of Tabuk, Tabuk, 71491, 
Saudi Arabia.
(5)Department of Physics and Astronomy, King Saud University, Riyadh, Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia.
(6)Department of Environmental Biology, Sapienza University of Rome, Piazzale 
Aldo Moro 5, 00185, Rome, Italy.
(7)Centre for Research in Medical Entomology, Madurai, India.
(8)Texas A&M University System/Agri Life Research and Extension Center, Lubbock, 
TX, 79403, USA.
(9)Department of Agriculture, Food and Environment, University of Pisa, via del 
Borghetto 80, 56124, Pisa, Italy. g.benelli@sssup.it.

Mosquitoes (Diptera: Culicidae) are a key threat for millions of people 
worldwide, since they act as vectors for devastating pathogens and parasites. 
The standard method of utilisation of morphological characters becomes 
challenging due to various factors such as phenotypical variations. We explored 
the complementary approach of CO1 gene-based identification, analysing ten 
species of mosquito vectors belonging to three genera, Aedes, Culex and 
Anopheles from India. Analysed nucleotide sequences were found without pseudo 
genes and indels; they match with high similarity in nucleotide Basic Local 
Alignment Search Tool (BLASTn) search. The partial CO1 sequence of Anopheles 
niligricus was the first time record submitted to National Center for 
Biotechnology Information (NCBI). Mean intra- and interspecies divergence was 
found to be 1.30 and 3.83 %, respectively. The congeneric divergence was three 
times higher than the conspecifics. Deep intraspecific divergence was noted in 
three of the species, and the reason could be explained more accurately in the 
future by improving the sample size across different locations. The transitional 
and transversional substitutions were tested individually. Ts and Tv 
substitutions in all the 1st, 2nd and 3rd codons were estimated to be (0.44, 
99.51), (40.35, 59.66) and (59.16, 40.84), respectively. Saturation of the 
sequences was resolved, since both the Ts and Tv exhibited a linear relationship 
suggesting that the sequences were not saturated. NJ and ML tree analysis showed 
that the individuals of the same species clustered together based on the CO1 
sequence similarity, regardless of their collection site and geographic 
location. Overall, this study adds basic knowledge to molecular evolution of 
mosquito vectors of medical and veterinary importance and may be useful to 
improve biotechnological tools employed in Culicidae control programmes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-015-4726-2
PMID: 26358100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. BMJ. 2015 Sep 10;351:h4828. doi: 10.1136/bmj.h4828.

Government inaction over social injustice is failing children, says Marmot.

Limb M(1).

Author information:
(1)London.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.h4828
PMID: 26358440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. BMC Public Health. 2015 Sep 10;15:881. doi: 10.1186/s12889-015-2221-4.

"Cultural brokerage" and beyond: piloting the role of an urban Aboriginal Mental 
Health Liaison Officer.

McKenna B(1)(2), Fernbacher S(3)(4), Furness T(5)(3), Hannon M(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Midwifery and Paramedicine, Australian Catholic 
University, Fitzroy, Australia. brian.mckenna@mh.org.au.
(2)NorthWestern Mental Health, Level 1 North, City Campus, The Royal Melbourne 
Hospital, Grattan Street, Parkville, VIC, 3050, Australia. 
brian.mckenna@mh.org.au.
(3)NorthWestern Mental Health, Level 1 North, City Campus, The Royal Melbourne 
Hospital, Grattan Street, Parkville, VIC, 3050, Australia.
(4)Northern Area Mental Health Service, Epping, Australia.
(5)School of Nursing, Midwifery and Paramedicine, Australian Catholic 
University, Fitzroy, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Suboptimal use of mental health services persists for Aboriginal and 
Torres Strait Islander peoples(1). Coupled with poorer life expectancy than 
other Australians, barriers to care have included poorly established partnership 
and communication among mental health services and Aboriginal peoples, and 
cultural insensitivity. As such, a goal of the Aboriginal mental health 
workforce is to engage their people and improve the social and emotional 
well-being of Aboriginal peoples. In 2013, the Northern Area Mental Health 
Service piloted a 0.8 full time equivalent position of an Aboriginal Mental 
Health Liaison Officer in an urban setting. Therefore, aims of this study were 
to describe the development of the role and stakeholder perceptions on how the 
role impacts on the typical journey of Aboriginal consumers engaging with mental 
health services. Meeting the aims may provide an exemplar for other mental 
health services.
METHODS: An illustrative case study using quantitative and qualitative data 
collection was undertaken. Descriptive statistics were computed to profile 
consumers and referral pathways. Thematic analysis was used to profile key 
stakeholder perceptions of the role.
RESULTS: The Aboriginal Mental Health Liaison Officer received 37 referrals over 
a 9 month period. The major source of referral was from an emergency department 
(49 %). Seventy-three percent of referrals by the Aboriginal mental health 
liaison officer at discharge were to community mental health teams. Thematic 
analysis of data on the development of the role resulted in two themes themes; 
(1) realisation of the need to improve accessibility and (2) advocating for 
change. The description of the role resulted in four themes; (1) the initiator: 
initiating access to the service, (2) the translator: brokering understanding 
among consumers and clinicians, (3) the networker: discharging to the community, 
and (4) the facilitator: providing cyclic continuity of care.
CONCLUSIONS: The liaison component of the role was only a part of the multiple 
tasks the urban Aboriginal Mental Health Liaison Officer fulfils. As such, the 
role was positively described as influencing the lives of Aboriginal consumers 
and their families and improving engagement with health professionals in the 
mental health service in question.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-015-2221-4
PMCID: PMC4566419
PMID: 26358718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. J R Soc Med. 2015 Sep;108(9):341-5. doi: 10.1177/0141076815602452.

Mammography screening is harmful and should be abandoned.

Gøtzsche PC(1).

Author information:
(1)Nordic Cochrane Centre, Rigshospitalet, Dept 7811, Denmark pcg@cochrane.dk.

Comment in
    J R Soc Med. 2015 Sep;108(9):338-9.

DOI: 10.1177/0141076815602452
PMCID: PMC4582264
PMID: 26359135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Osteoporos Int. 2016 Mar;27(3):915-922. doi: 10.1007/s00198-015-3311-y. Epub
 2015 Sep 10.

The associations of physical activity with fracture risk--a 7-year prospective 
controlled intervention study in 3534 children.

Fritz J(1), Cöster ME(2), Nilsson JÅ(2), Rosengren BE(2), Dencker M(3), Karlsson 
MK(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinical and Molecular Osteoporosis Research Unit, Department of Orthopedics 
and Clinical Sciences, Lund University, Skåne University Hospital, SE-205 02, 
Malmö, Sweden. jesper.fritz@med.lu.se.
(2)Clinical and Molecular Osteoporosis Research Unit, Department of Orthopedics 
and Clinical Sciences, Lund University, Skåne University Hospital, SE-205 02, 
Malmö, Sweden.
(3)Department of Physiology and Clinical Sciences, Lund University, Skåne 
University Hospital, SE-205 02, Malmö, Sweden.

SUMMARY: This is the first study indicating an association between gradually 
diminished risk of fractures and years of increased physical activity. Our 
results could imply great benefits not only for the individual but also for the 
healthcare burden and cost of society.
INTRODUCTION: Physical activity (PA) in childhood is associated with high bone 
mass and beneficial neuromuscular function. We investigate if increased PA also 
is associated with fracture risk.
METHODS: We registered fractures in 3534 children aged 6 to 8 years at study 
start for up to 7 years; 1339 with 40 min of moderate PA every school day 
(intervention) and 2195 with the Swedish standard curriculum of 60 min of PA per 
school week (controls). In a subsample of 264 children, we measured areal bone 
mineral density (aBMD; g/cm(2)) with dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (femoral 
neck and total spine) and muscle strength (peak torque for knee extension and 
flexion; Nm) with computerized dynamometer at baseline and after 7 years. We 
estimated annual fracture incidence rate ratios (IRR) in the intervention group 
compared to the control group as well as changes in bone mass and muscle 
strength. Data is given as mean (95% CI).
RESULTS: The IRR of fractures decreased with each year of the PA intervention 
(r = -0.79; p = 0.04). During the seventh year, IRR was almost halved [IRR 0.52 
(0.27, 1.01)]. The intervention group had a statistically significant greater 
gain in total spine aBMD with a mean group difference of 0.03 (0.00, 0.05) 
g/cm(2) and peak flexion torque 180° with a mean group difference of 5.0 (1.5, 
8.6) Nm.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased PA is associated with decreased fracture risk, probably 
in part due to beneficial gains in aBMD and muscle strength.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-015-3311-y
PMID: 26359184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Eur J Health Econ. 2016 Sep;17(7):865-73. doi: 10.1007/s10198-015-0727-4.
Epub  2015 Sep 10.

Unchained melody: revisiting the estimation of SF-6D values.

Craig BM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Health Outcomes & Behavior Program, Moffitt Cancer Center, 12902 Magnolia 
Drive, MRC-CANCONT, Tampa, FL, 33612-9416, USA. benjamin.craig@moffitt.org.
(2)Department of Economics, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, USA. 
benjamin.craig@moffitt.org.

PURPOSE: In the original SF-6D valuation study, the analytical design inherited 
conventions that detrimentally affected its ability to predict values on a 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) scale. Our objective is to estimate UK values 
for SF-6D states using the original data and multi-attribute utility (MAU) 
regression after addressing its limitations and to compare the revised SF-6D and 
EQ-5D value predictions.
METHODS: Using the unaltered data (611 respondents, 3503 SG responses), the 
parameters of the original MAU model were re-estimated under three alternative 
error specifications, known as the instant, episodic, and angular random utility 
models. Value predictions on a QALY scale were compared to EQ-5D3L predictions 
using the 1996 Health Survey for England.
RESULTS: Contrary to the original results, the revised SF-6D value predictions 
range below 0 QALYs (i.e., worse than death) and agree largely with EQ-5D 
predictions after adjusting for scale. Although a QALY is defined as a year in 
optimal health, the SF-6D sets a higher standard for optimal health than the 
EQ-5D-3L; therefore, it has larger units on a QALY scale by construction (20.9 % 
more).
CONCLUSIONS: Much of the debate in health valuation has focused on differences 
between preference elicitation tasks, sampling, and instruments. After 
correcting errant econometric practices and adjusting for differences in QALY 
scale between the EQ-5D and SF-6D values, the revised predictions demonstrate 
convergent validity, making them more suitable for UK economic evaluations 
compared to original estimates.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-015-0727-4
PMCID: PMC4786460
PMID: 26359242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author has no potential conflicts of 
interest.


728. Curr Med Res Opin. 2015 Nov;31(11):2145-56. doi:
10.1185/03007995.2015.1092123.  Epub 2015 Oct 6.

Is dibotermin alfa a cost-effective substitute for autologous iliac crest bone 
graft in single level lumbar interbody spine fusion?

Svedbom A(1)(2), Paech D(1), Leonard C(3), Donnell D(4), Song F(5), Boszcyk 
B(6), Rothenfluh DA(7), Lloyd A(8), Borgman B(9).

