Department of Vascular and Interventional Radiology, INRCA Hospital- IRCCS, 
60127 Ancona, Italy.

AIM: To better define the efficacy and the safety of intra-arterial infusion 
performed with or without hemofiltration for recurrent limb melanoma.
METHODS: Patients with the following characteristics were included in the study: 
recurrent limb melanoma not indicated for surgical resection, measurable disease 
in the extremity, > 18 years, performances status (Eastern Cooperative Oncology 
Group ) was 0-1 and life expectancy of at least 6 mo. Twenty nine consecutive 
patients were enrolled in the study. Patients underwent fluoroscopic placement 
of angiographic arterial and venous catheters to infuse the drug in the artery 
[isolated limb infusion (ILI)], and to stop the out flow (venous). Melphalan was 
rapidly infused into the isolated limb via the arterial catheter after the 
inflation of venous balloon catheter. Then the circulation of the limb was 
completely blocked with a pneumatic cuff at the root of the limb. 
Haemofiltration (HF) was available only in the main center, and was performed 
with an extracorporeal perfusion system, in order to reduce high systemic toxic 
peaks of drug.
RESULTS: Thirty seven ILI were done in 29 cases (31 ILI-HF and 6 ILI) between 
2001 and 2014 at Ancona and Pesaro Hospitals, Italy. Clinical outcomes were 
monitored 30 d after treatment. Eleven patients (38%) received infusion of 
melphalan alone, 7 (24%) melphalan associated to mitomicin C and 7 (24%) 
melphalan associated to cisplatin, the remaining 4 were treated with cisplatin, 
melphalan and epirubicin or cisplatin and mitomicin C. The overall response rate 
was 66%, in particular, 3 patients (10%) were complete responders and 16 (56%) 
were partial responders; whereas 7 patients (24%) had stable disease, and 3 
(10%) showed progressive disease. Limb toxicity was assessed adopting Wieberdink 
scale, with evidence of 90% of low grade (I and II) toxicity.
CONCLUSION: ILI-HF and ILI are effective and safe treatments for recurrent 
non-resectable limb melanoma. They present evidence of favorable clinical 
benefit and is effective in delaying progression.

DOI: 10.5306/wjco.v6.i4.57
PMCID: PMC4530379
PMID: 26266102


431. Biodemography Soc Biol. 2015;61(2):147-66. doi:
10.1080/19485565.2015.1047488.

Early-Life Conditions, Rapid Demographic Changes, and Older Adult Health in the 
Developing World.

McEniry M(1), McDermott J.

Author information:
(1)a Institute for Social Research , University of Michigan , Ann Arbor , 
Michigan , USA.

The demographic transition of the 1930s-1960s dramatically improved life 
expectancy in some developing countries. Cohorts born during this time are 
increasingly characterized by their survivorship of poor early-life conditions, 
such as poor nutrition and infectious diseases. As a result, they are 
potentially more susceptible to the effects of these conditions at older ages. 
This study examines this conjecture by comparing obesity, diabetes, and 
hypertension in older adults born in the beginning portion of the 1930s-1960s 
across different mortality regimes using a subset of harmonized cross-national 
data from seven low- and middle-income countries (RELATE, n = 16,836). Using 
birthplace and height as indicators of early-life conditions, the results show 
(1) higher prevalence of obesity and diabetes and higher likelihood of obesity, 
diabetes, and hypertension in middle-income countries, but (2) no convincing 
evidence to indicate stronger effects of early-life conditions on health in 
these countries. However, shorter adults living in urban areas were more likely 
to be obese, indicating the overall importance of early-life conditions and the 
potential negative impact of urban exposures during adulthood. Obesity results 
may foreshadow the health of future cohorts born in the later portion of the 
1930s-1960s as they reach older ages (60+).

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.2015.1047488
PMCID: PMC4559852
PMID: 26266970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Biodemography Soc Biol. 2015;61(2):167-86. doi:
10.1080/19485565.2015.1047489.

Babies of the War: The Effect of War Exposure Early in Life on Mortality 
Throughout Life.

Lindeboom M(1), van Ewijk R.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Economics , VU University Amsterdam The Netherlands.

There is increasing evidence that circumstances very early in our lives, and 
particularly during pregnancy, can affect our health for the remainder of life. 
Studies that have looked at this relationship have often used extreme 
situations, such as famines that occurred during wartime. Here we investigate 
whether less extreme situations during World War II also affected later-life 
mortality for cohorts born in Belgium, France, The Netherlands, and Norway. We 
argue that these occupied countries experienced a considerable deterioration in 
daily life situations and show that this resulted in strongly increased 
mortality rates and lower probabilities of survival until age 55 among civilian 
populations who had been prenatally exposed to wartime circumstances. However, 
this mortality effect among the prenatally exposed is entirely concentrated in 
the first years of life, particularly infanthood. Once we condition on having 
survived the first years of life, those who had been prenatally exposed do not 
have higher mortality rates. This suggests that "culling" is important and that 
effects found in earlier studies may have been biased downward substantially.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.2015.1047489
PMID: 26266971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Eur J Pediatr Surg. 2016 Aug;26(4):316-21. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1554103. Epub
 2015 Aug 12.

SNAPPE II Score As a Predictor of Survival in Neonates with Congenital 
Diaphragmatic Hernia: A Single Center Experience.

Chiu LW(1), Desai J(2), Shanti C(1), Rane S(2), Agarwal P(2), Thomas RL(3), 
Klein M(1), Chouthai NS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Children's Hospital of Michigan, Detroit, 
Michigan, United States.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine, Children's 
Hospital of Michigan/Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan, United States.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Children's Research Center of Michigan, Wayne 
State University, Detroit, Michigan, United States.

Introduction Prediction of mortality and morbidity in newborns with congenital 
diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is too complex for practical use and may not be 
accurate. The main objective of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of the 
CDH Study Group equation and Score of Neonatal Acute Physiology Perinatal 
Extension (SNAPPE) II score to predict short-term outcomes of newborns with CDH. 
Materials and Methods Fifty-two neonates were admitted with CDH at Children's 
Hospital of Michigan from November 2001 to July 2009. Retrospective chart 
analysis was performed. Predicted survival rates were calculated using the 
equation published by the CDH Study Group in 2001. SNAPPE II scores were also 
obtained within 12 hours of admission. Statistical analysis was performed using 
SPSS statistical package. Results Thirty out of 52 (58%) neonates survived to 
discharge. SNAPPE II score was significantly lower (p < 0.0001) in survivors 
(20 ± 15) versus nonsurvivors (41 ± 16). When neonates were stratified according 
to the CDH Study Group, low-risk patients had a survival rate of 68% (predicted 
84%), moderate-risk patients had a survival rate of 43% (predicted 57%), and 
high-risk patients had a survival rate of 33% (predicted 36%). A total of 83% of 
the newborns who survived were operated within 48 hours of life, while only 17% 
of the nonsurvivors were operated within 48 hours of life. Conclusion SNAPPE II 
scores were better predictors of mortality than the CDH Study Group equation 
published in 2001. Further exploration is warranted to evaluate validity of 
survival advantage for those who were operated within 48 hours of life. A future 
study of combination of prenatal and postnatal factors may help in improved 
outcomes of the newborns with CDH.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1554103
PMID: 26267235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Nutr Hosp. 2015 Jul 18;32 Suppl 1:35-40. doi: 10.3305/nh.2015.32.sup1.9477.

Role of eggs consumption in women at different life stages.

López-Sobaler AM(1), González-Rodríguez LG(2).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Nutrición y Bromatología I (Nutrición). Facultad de Farmacia. 
Universidad Complutense de Madrid. Grupo de investigación VALORNUT-UCM (920030). 
Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Madrid.. asobaler@ucm.es.
(2)Grupo de investigación VALORNUT-UCM (920030). Universidad Complutense de 
Madrid, Madrid. Departamento de Nutrición Humana y Dietética. Facultad de 
Ciencias de la Salud. Universidad Alfonso X El Sabio. Villanueva de la Cañada, 
Madrid (España).. asobaler@ucm.es.

Although women need less energy than men, their recommended dietary intakes for 
some nutrients are similar or even higher. Some physiological situations can 
highlight those differences, such as growth, pregnancy, lactation and menopause. 
Nutritional deficiencies may impact on growth, fertility, pregnancy and newborn 
health, so in this context eggs are a food of great interest because of its 
essential and highly bioavailable nutrients, while providing few calories. In 
addition, and bearing in mind that life expectancy for women is generally higher 
than that of men, the likelihood of suffering chronic diseases and for a longer 
time is high. In this sense, eggs are very nutritive food, inexpensive and easy 
to prepare, easy to chew and digest, and are especially suitable for women in 
old age or more fragile situations. Nutrients and bioactive substances provided 
by eggs can help prevent chronic diseases and improve the health of women in the 
last stages of their life.

Publisher: Las mujeres necesitan menos energía que los hombres, pero sus 
ingestas recomendadas de algunos nutrientes son iguales o incluso superiores. 
Algunas situaciones fisiológicas pueden aumentar aún más estas diferencias, como 
ocurre durante el crecimiento, el embarazo, la lactancia o la menopausia. Las 
deficiencias nutricionales pueden tener consecuencias adversas sobre el 
crecimiento y desarrollo, la fertilidad, el desarrollo del embarazo y la salud 
del recién nacido. En este contexto, el huevo es un alimento de gran interés 
debido a que contiene nutrientes esenciales y altamente biodisponibles, y bajo 
contenido calórico. Además, teniendo en cuenta que la esperanza de vida para la 
mujer es mayor que para el hombre, la probabilidad de padecer enfermedades 
crónicas y durante más tiempo aumenta. Los huevos son alimentos altamente 
nutritivos, baratos, fáciles de preparar y fáciles de masticar y digerir, y 
especialmente útiles para la mujer en la ancianidad y en situaciones de mayor 
fragilidad. Los nutrientes y las sustancias bioactivas del huevo ayudan a 
prevenir enfermedades crónicas y a mejorar la salud de las mujeres en las 
últimas etapas de su vida.

Copyright AULA MEDICA EDICIONES 2014. Published by AULA MEDICA. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.3305/nh.2015.32.sup1.9477
PMID: 26267773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Nutr Hosp. 2015 Jul 18;32 Suppl 1:49-55. doi: 10.3305/nh.2015.32.sup1.9480.

[Nutritional factors in preventing osteoporosis].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Martín Jiménez JA(1), Consuegra Moya B(1), Martín Jiménez MT(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Nutrición y Bromatología I (Nutrición). Facultad de Farmacia. 
Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Madrid (España).. ruizrojo@ucm.es.

Osteoporosis, main risk factor for suffering fragility fractures, is an 
important public health problem which has undoubted social, health and economic 
impact; but mainly causes pain, functional limitation and severe alterations in 
the patient's quality of life. Its current prevalence is very high and a further 
increase is expected due to a higher life expectancy and the progressive ageing 
of the population. In the prevention of osteoporosis, the main goal is to 
prevent fragility fractures; for this reason, it is necessary to: 1) promote 
bone formation in youth, to get sufficient bone mass peak, 2) reduce bone loss 
in adulthood, especially after menopause, 3) maintain bone health throughout 
life, and 4) prevent falls. There is enough evidence that multifactorial 
strategies (assessment of risk factors, healthy lifestyle habits, smoking 
cessation, moderation in alcohol consumption, physical exercise, outdoor 
activity with prudent exposure to sunlight, and a varied and balanced diet), are 
effective in the population at risk. Regarding factors for the prevention of 
osteoporosis, current recommendations are: increased consumption of calcium, 
phosphorus, magnesium and fluoride; provide adequate vitamin D (even with 
fortified food if necessary); consumption of foods rich in omega-3 acids; 
reduction of salt and prepared ready meals; sufficient but moderate intake of 
protein and, in the absence of intolerance, promote the consumption of milk and 
dairy products, especially yogurt and fermented milk products.

Publisher: La osteoporosis, principal factor de riesgo para sufrir fracturas por 
fragilidad, es un problema importante de salud pública que tiene repercusiones 
sociales, sanitarias y económicas indudables; pero sobre todo provoca dolor, 
limitación funcional y alteración severa en la calidad de vida de los pacientes. 
Su prevalencia actual es muy elevada y se espera un incremento futuro por el 
aumento en la esperanza de vida y el envejecimiento progresivo de la población. 
En la prevención de la osteoporosis, el principal objetivo es evitar las 
fracturas por fragilidad; para ello es necesario: 1) favorecer la formación de 
hueso en la juventud, hasta conseguir un pico suficiente de masa ósea, 2) 
disminuir la pérdida de hueso en la edad adulta, sobre todo después de la 
menopausia, 3) mantener la salud ósea durante el resto de la vida, y 4) evitar 
las caídas. Existen suficientes evidencias de que las estrategias 
multifactoriales (evaluación de factores de riesgo, hábitos de vida saludables, 
abandono del tabaco, moderación en el consumo de alcohol, ejercicio físico 
adecuado al paciente, actividad al aire libre con exposición prudente a la luz 
solar, así como una dieta variada y equilibrada), son efectivas en la población 
de riesgo. En cuanto a los factores nutricionales para la prevención de la 
osteoporosis, las recomendaciones actuales son: aumento del consumo de calcio, 
fósforo, magnesio y flúor; aporte adecuado de vitamina D (incluso con alimentos 
enriquecidos, en caso necesario); consumo de alimentos ricos en ácidos omega-3; 
disminución de sal y alimentos preparados; ingesta suficiente pero moderada de 
proteínas y, en ausencia de intolerancia, potenciar el consumo de leche y sus 
derivados, sobre todo yogur y productos lácteos fermentados.

Copyright AULA MEDICA EDICIONES 2014. Published by AULA MEDICA. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.3305/nh.2015.32.sup1.9480
PMID: 26267775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Aging Cell. 2015 Dec;14(6):1045-54. doi: 10.1111/acel.12382. Epub 2015 Aug
12.

Growth hormone modulates hypothalamic inflammation in long-lived pituitary dwarf 
mice.

Sadagurski M(1), Landeryou T(2), Cady G(2), Kopchick JJ(3), List EO(3), Berryman 
DE(3), Bartke A(4), Miller RA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Geriatric and Palliative 
Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology and Geriatrics Center, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(3)Edison Biotechnology Institute, Ohio University, Athens, OH, USA.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine-Geriatrics Research, Southern Illinois 
University School of Medicine, Springfield, IL, USA.

Mice in which the genes for growth hormone (GH) or GH receptor (GHR(-/-) ) are 
disrupted from conception are dwarfs, possess low levels of IGF-1 and insulin, 
have low rates of cancer and diabetes, and are extremely long-lived. Median 
longevity is also increased in mice with deletion of hypothalamic GH-releasing 
hormone (GHRH), which leads to isolated GH deficiency. The remarkable extension 
of longevity in hypopituitary Ames dwarf mice can be reversed by a 6-week course 
of GH injections started at the age of 2 weeks. Here, we demonstrate that 
mutations that interfere with GH production or response, in the Snell dwarf, 
Ames dwarf, or GHR(-/-) mice lead to reduced formation of both orexigenic 
agouti-related peptide (AgRP) and anorexigenic proopiomelanocortin (POMC) 
projections to the main hypothalamic projection areas: the arcuate nucleus 
(ARH), paraventricular nucleus (PVH), and dorsomedial nucleus (DMH). These 
mutations also reduce hypothalamic inflammation in 18-month-old mice. GH 
injections, between 2 and 8 weeks of age, reversed both effects in Ames dwarf 
mice. Disruption of GHR specifically in liver (LiGHRKO), a mutation that reduces 
circulating IGF-1 but does not lead to lifespan extension, had no effect on 
hypothalamic projections or inflammation, suggesting an effect of GH, rather 
than peripheral IGF-1, on hypothalamic development. Hypothalamic leptin 
signaling, as monitored by induction of pStat3, is not impaired by GHR 
deficiency. Together, these results suggest that early-life disruption of GH 
signaling produces long-term hypothalamic changes that may contribute to the 
longevity of GH-deficient and GH-resistant mice.

© 2015 The Authors. Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12382
PMCID: PMC4693470
PMID: 26268661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 2015 Oct;157(10):1655-6. doi:
10.1007/s00701-015-2538-x.  Epub 2015 Aug 14.

Surgery for high-grade unruptured brain arteriovenous malformations: era for a 
new paradox?

Bervini D(1), Morgan MK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Bern University Hospital, Bern, Switzerland. 
david.bervini@insel.ch.
(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.

Comment in
    Acta Neurochir (Wien). 2015 Oct;157(10):1657.

Comment on
    Acta Neurochir (Wien). 2015 Sep;157(8):1279-87.

DOI: 10.1007/s00701-015-2538-x
PMID: 26269031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Semin Thromb Hemost. 2015 Nov;41(8):864-71. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1552563.
Epub  2015 Aug 13.

Individualizing factor replacement therapy in severe hemophilia.

Carcao MD(1), Iorio A(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Haematology/Oncology and Child Health Evaluative Sciences, 
Research Institute, The Hospital for Sick Children, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Departments of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics and Medicine, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

Prophylactic replacement of factor concentrate is the established optimal 
treatment to avoid or minimize joint disease in severe hemophilia patients, thus 
ultimately improving their life expectancy and quality of life toward values 
matching those in the normal population. Where uncertainty still exists is 
around the optimal regimen to be prescribed for prophylaxis, and more and more 
treaters and patients are showing interest in patient tailored approaches to 
prophylaxis, aiming at matching the prophylaxis regimen to the specific needs of 
the patient. The rationale behind tailoring the prophylaxis regimen to the 
individual patient is based on the significant variability that exists between 
patients (all with the same label of severe hemophilia) with respect to their 
bleeding phenotype, their pharmacokinetic handling of factor, their levels of 
physical activity, and a variety of other characteristics that contribute to 
differential prophylaxis needs of patients. Of course, any form of tailoring of 
prophylaxis needs to take into consideration the economic resources of the 
country; for many countries very intense prophylaxis regimens are just not 
possible. This article will review different concerns and strategies when 
tailoring prophylaxis, and will address how these issues will apply to the new 
longer acting factor concentrates in development.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1552563
PMID: 26270111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Orthopedics. 2015 Aug;38(8):e673-80. doi: 10.3928/01477447-20150804-53.

The Quality of Cost-Utility Analyses in Orthopedic Trauma.

Nwachukwu BU, Schairer WW, O'Dea E, McCormick F, Lane JM.

As health care in the United States transitions toward a value-based model, 
there is increasing interest in applying cost-effectiveness analysis within 
orthopedic surgery. Orthopedic trauma care has traditionally underemphasized 
economic analysis. The goals of this review were to identify US-based 
cost-utility analysis in orthopedic trauma, to assess the quality of the 
available evidence, and to identify cost-effective strategies within orthopedic 
trauma. Based on a review of 971 abstracts, 8 US-based cost-utility analyses 
evaluating operative strategies in orthopedic trauma were identified. Study 
findings were recorded, and the Quality of Health Economic Studies (QHES) 
instrument was used to grade the overall quality. Of the 8 studies included in 
this review, 4 studies evaluated hip and femur fractures, 3 studies analyzed 
upper extremity fractures, and 1 study assessed open tibial fracture management. 
Cost-effective interventions identified in this review include total hip 
arthroplasty (over hemiarthroplasty) for femoral neck fractures in the active 
elderly, open reduction and internal fixation (over nonoperative management) for 
distal radius and scaphoid fractures, limb salvage (over amputation) for complex 
open tibial fractures, and systems-based interventions to prevent delay in hip 
fracture surgery. The mean QHES score of the studies was 79.25 (range, 67-89). 
Overall, there is a paucity of cost-utility analyses in orthopedic trauma; 
however, the available evidence suggests that certain operative interventions 
can be cost-effective. The quality of these studies, however, is fair, based on 
QHES grading. More attention should be paid to evaluating the cost-effectiveness 
of operative intervention in orthopedic trauma.

Copyright 2015, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/01477447-20150804-53
PMID: 26270752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2015 Dec;136(6):1337-1352. doi: 
10.1097/PRS.0000000000001814.

An Argument for Salvage in Severe Lower Extremity Trauma with Posterior Tibial 
Nerve Injury: The Ganga Hospital Experience.

Momoh AO(1), Kumaran S, Lyons D, Venkatramani H, Ramkumar S, Chung KC, Sabapathy 
SR.

Author information:
(1)Ann Arbor, Mich.; and Coimbatore, India From the Section of Plastic Surgery, 
Department of Surgery, University of Michigan Medical School; and the Department 
of Plastic Surgery, Ganga Hospital.

Comment in
    Plast Reconstr Surg. 2015 Dec;136(6):1353-5.

BACKGROUND: Absence of plantar sensation is a critical factor considered in 
favor of amputation for patients with lower limb-threatening injuries. This 
study aims to assess outcomes of limb salvage in a group of patients with severe 
lower extremity injuries associated with posterior tibial nerve transection.
METHODS: The authors studied eight cases of limb salvage after traumatic 
injuries with documented tibial nerve laceration managed at Ganga Hospital, 
India. Functional and health-related quality-of-life outcomes were assessed. 
Outcomes from this case series were compared to outcomes of studies from a 
systematic literature review on salvage of the severely injured lower extremity.
RESULTS: Patients in this case series reported mild pain (median score, 20 on a 
visual analogue scale ranging from 0 to 100), with some return of plantar 
sensation in patients with tibial nerve repairs (median score, 2 of 5). Patients 
demonstrated a decrease in ankle motion (27.5 degrees' plantar flexion and 10 
degrees' extension) and muscle strength (median heel flexor score, 3 of 5). All 
patients could ambulate independently. Quality of life and function measured by 
validated instruments revealed minimal disability. The authors identified 1767 
articles on lower extremity trauma, and 14 articles were reviewed 
systematically. Relative to the case series, published articles reported 
similarly diminished ankle motion and muscle strength, with reports of mild pain 
in select studies. Patient-reported outcomes instruments found variations in the 
degree of physical disability based on the time from injury.
CONCLUSION: Although limited in number, this case series demonstrates the value 
of limb salvage even for patients with posterior tibial nerve injury.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000001814
PMCID: PMC5095617
PMID: 26270902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Scand J Public Health. 2015 Dec;43(8):848-54. doi: 10.1177/1403494815596910.
 Epub 2015 Aug 13.

Differences between hypothetical and experience-based value sets for EQ-5D used 
in Sweden: Implications for decision makers.

Aronsson M(1), Husberg M(2), Kalkan A(2), Eckard N(2), Alwin J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Health Sciences, Linkoping University, Sweden 
mattias.aronsson@liu.se.
(2)Department of Medical and Health Sciences, Linkoping University, Sweden.

AIMS: A number of value sets are available today for converting EQ-5D 
questionnaire responses to quality-adjusted life year-weights used in health 
economic evaluations. The aim of this study is to analyse the differences 
between the commonly used hypothetical UK value set and the newly introduced 
Swedish experience-based value set and to evaluate health economic implications 
of such differences on policy decisions.
METHODS: Differences between the two value sets were studied using two methods: 
a comparison of health states and improvements as well as an empirical 
comparison. In the comparison of health states and improvements, the valuations 
of all EQ-5D states and all pure improvements were compared. In the empirical 
study, a database of 23,925 individuals was used to identify patient groups that 
could be affected by the implementation of the Swedish experience-based value 
set.
RESULTS: The comparison of health states and possible improvements showed that 
only three health states were assigned a lower quality-adjusted life year-weight 
and most improvements were given smaller absolute values if the experience-based 
value set was used. The empirical comparison showed that severe conditions were 
assigned higher values when using the experience-based value set.
CONCLUSIONS: The Swedish experience-based value set seems to render a higher 
estimated level of health-related quality of life in virtually all health 
conditions compared to the hypothetical UK value set. In extension, 
health-related quality of life enhancing interventions are likely to be given 
higher priority in decision-making situations where hypothetical values are used 
to construct quality-adjusted life year-weights. In situations where 
experience-based quality-adjusted life year-weights are used, life-prolonging 
interventions would be prioritised.

© 2015 the Nordic Societies of Public Health.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494815596910
PMID: 26271493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Thromb Haemost. 2015 Oct;114(4):778-92. doi: 10.1160/TH14-12-1027. Epub 2015
Aug  13.

The cost-utility of dabigatran etexilate compared with warfarin in treatment and 
extended anticoagulation of acute VTE in the UK.

Jugrin AV, Ustyugova A, Urbich M, Lamotte M(1), Sunderland T.

Author information:
(1)Mark Lamotte, Medialaan 38, 1800 Vilvoorde, Belgium, Tel.: +32 2 627 3318, 
E-mail: mlamotte@be.imshealth.com.

The relative efficacy and safety of dabigatran etexilate and warfarin have been 
evaluated in two head-to-head, phase III, treatment of acute venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) trials, and one extended prophylaxis trial, in patients 
with high risk of recurrent VTE. Dabigatran etexilate demonstrated similar 
efficacy to warfarin, and was associated with a reduced risk of major or 
clinically relevant bleeds. Based on results of these trials, and real-life 
disease prognosis following discontinuation of anticoagulation treatment, we 
evaluated the cost-utility of dabigatran etexilate compared with warfarin in six 
months anticoagulation, and in extended, up to 24 months anticoagulation, in 
patients with acute VTE, acute deep-vein thrombosis (DVT) or acute, symptomatic, 
pulmonary embolism (PE). Costs were analysed from the perspective of the 
National Health Services (NHS) and Public Social Services (PSS) in England and 
Wales. Outcomes were quantified in quality-adjusted life years (QALY). The 
estimated incremental, lifetime cost/QALY gain following acute, symptomatic VTE 
(DVT or PE) was £1,252/QALY when dabigatran etexilate or warfarin were 
administered for up to six months treatment. In treatment of acute, symptomatic 
PE and in DVT respective ratios were £1,767/QALY and £1,075/QALY. In extended, 
up to 24 months anticoagulation, dabigatran etexilate projected costs/QALY of 
£8,242/QALY, when compared with warfarin. Results obtained herein were robust 
across a number of sensitivity analyses and suggest dabigatran etexilate to be a 
cost-effective alternative to current standard of care when evaluated in six 
months treatment and in extended anticoagulation following acute VTE (DVT and/or 
PE).

DOI: 10.1160/TH14-12-1027
PMID: 26272227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Occup Med (Lond). 2015 Oct;65(7):529-34. doi: 10.1093/occmed/kqv103. Epub
2015  Aug 13.

Health and pink-collar work.

Basu S(1), Ratcliffe G(2), Green M(2).

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Occupational Health Service, Northern General Hospital, Sheffield 
S5 7AU, UK, Subhashis.basu@sth.nhs.uk.
(2)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield S1 4DA, UK.

BACKGROUND: In recent years, there has been a decline in the manufacturing 
sector of the UK economy with a corresponding growth of service-orientated 
pink-collar jobs in some regions. While the health outcomes of white- and 
blue-collar workers are well-established, less is known about this emerging 
pink-collar group.
AIMS: To outline the health of pink-collar workers in comparison to their 
white-collar counterparts across a range of indicators.
METHODS: Area-level percentages for white-, pink- and blue-collar workers were 
derived from residents' routinely collected employment data in a northern 
English town. Area-level health data pertaining to male and female life 
expectancy, respiratory deaths and deaths from cardiovascular and circulatory 
causes (all age and under 75 years) were obtained from the local authority and 
public health observatory. Multivariate regression analyses were performed to 
assess relationships between job collar and health.
RESULTS: When adjusted for deprivation, areas with higher percentages of 
pink-collar workers experienced lower rates of death from circulatory disease 
under the age of 75 in comparison to white-collar workers. Other relationships 
between collar status and health outcomes were not statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: The reasons underlying the apparent protective effect of 
pink-collar status for deaths from circulatory disease are uncertain and merit 
further study. Possibilities include differences in age, exposure to 
occupational hazards and lifestyle behaviours. Our work has a number of 
limitations and longitudinal studies with detailed exposure data should assess 
the long-term health outcomes of these workers using agreed definitions.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society 
of Occupational Medicine. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/occmed/kqv103
PMID: 26272379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Lancet Oncol. 2015 Sep;16(9):1071-1078. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00034-0.
Epub  2015 Aug 10.

Safety and efficacy of rolapitant for prevention of chemotherapy-induced nausea 
and vomiting after administration of moderately emetogenic chemotherapy or 
anthracycline and cyclophosphamide regimens in patients with cancer: a 
randomised, active-controlled, double-blind, phase 3 trial.

Schwartzberg LS(1), Modiano MR(2), Rapoport BL(3), Chasen MR(4), Gridelli C(5), 
Urban L(6), Poma A(7), Arora S(7), Navari RM(8), Schnadig ID(9).

Author information:
(1)The West Clinic, Memphis, TN, USA. Electronic address: 
lschwartzberg@westclinic.com.
(2)ACRC/Arizona Clinical Research Center and Arizona Oncology, Tucson, AZ, USA.
(3)The Medical Oncology Centre of Rosebank, Saxonwold, Johannesburg, South 
Africa.
(4)The Ottawa Hospital Cancer Center, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(5)Division of Medical Oncology, San Giuseppe Moscati Hospital, Avellino, Italy.
(6)Matrahaza Healthcare Center and University Teaching Hospital, Matrahaza, 
Hungary.
(7)TESARO, Waltham, MA, USA.
(8)Indiana University School of Medicine, South Bend, IN, USA.
(9)Compass Oncology, US Oncology Research, Tualatin, OR, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2015 Sep;16(9):1006-7.

BACKGROUND: Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting is a common side-effect of 
many antineoplastic regimens and can occur for several days after treatment. We 
aimed to assess the neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist rolapitant, in combination 
with a serotonin (5-HT3) receptor antagonist and dexamethasone, for the 
prevention of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting in patients with cancer 
after administration of moderately emetogenic chemotherapy or regimens 
containing an anthracycline and cyclophosphamide.
METHODS: We conducted a global, randomised, double-blind, active-controlled, 
phase 3 study at 170 cancer centres in 23 countries. We included patients with 
cancer aged 18 years or older, who had not received moderately or highly 
emetogenic chemotherapy before, with a Karnofsky performance score of 60 or 
higher, and a predicted life expectancy of 4 months or longer. We used an 
interactive web-based randomisation system to randomly allocate patients to 
receive either oral rolapitant (one 180 mg dose; rolapitant group) or a placebo 
that was identical in appearance (active control group) 1-2 h before 
administration of moderately emetogenic chemotherapy. Patients were stratified 
by sex. All patients also received granisetron (2 mg orally) and dexamethasone 
(20 mg orally) on day 1 (except for patients receiving taxanes as part of 
moderately emetogenic chemotherapy, who received dexamethasone according to the 
package insert) and granisetron (2 mg orally) on days 2-3. Every cycle was a 
minimum of 14 days. In up to five subsequent cycles, patients received the same 
study drug they were assigned in cycle 1, unless they chose to leave the study 
or were removed at the treating clinician's discretion. Efficacy analysis was 
done in the modified intention-to-treat population (comprising all patients who 
received at least one dose of study drug at a study site compliant with Good 
Clinical Practice [GCP]). The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients 
achieving a complete response (defined as no emesis or use of rescue medication) 
in the delayed phase (>24-120 h after initiation of chemotherapy) in cycle 1. 
This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT01500226. The study 
has been completed.
FINDINGS: Between March 5, 2012, and Sept 6, 2013, 1369 patients were randomised 
to receive either rolapitant (n=684) or active control (n=685). 666 patients in 
each group received at least one dose of study drug at a GCP-compliant site and 
were included in the modified intention-to-treat population. A significantly 
greater proportion of patients receiving rolapitant had complete responses in 
the delayed phase than did those receiving active control (475 [71%] vs 410 
[62%]; odds ratio 1·6, 95% CI 1·2-2·0; p=0·0002). The incidence of adverse 
events was similar in the rolapitant and control groups, with the most 
frequently reported treatment-related treatment-emergent adverse events being 
fatigue, constipation, and headache. For cycle 1, the most common grade 3-4 
adverse event in the rolapitant versus active control groups was neutropenia (32 
[5%] vs 23 [3%] patients). No serious adverse event was treatment-related, and 
no treatment-related treatment-emergent adverse event resulted in death.
INTERPRETATION: Rolapitant in combination with a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist and 
dexamethasone is well tolerated and shows superiority over active control for 
the prevention of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting during the 5-day 
(0-120 h) at-risk period after administration of moderately emetogenic 
chemotherapy or regimens containing an anthracycline and cyclophosphamide.
FUNDING: TESARO, Inc.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00034-0
PMID: 26272768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Lancet Oncol. 2015 Sep;16(9):1079-1089. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00035-2.
Epub  2015 Aug 10.

Safety and efficacy of rolapitant for prevention of chemotherapy-induced nausea 
and vomiting after administration of cisplatin-based highly emetogenic 
chemotherapy in patients with cancer: two randomised, active-controlled, 
double-blind, phase 3 trials.

Rapoport BL(1), Chasen MR(2), Gridelli C(3), Urban L(4), Modiano MR(5), Schnadig 
ID(6), Poma A(7), Arora S(7), Kansra V(7), Schwartzberg LS(8), Navari RM(9).

Author information:
(1)The Medical Oncology Centre of Rosebank, Saxonwold, Johannesburg, South 
Africa. Electronic address: brapoport@rosebankoncology.co.za.
(2)The Ottawa Hospital Cancer Center, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(3)Division of Medical Oncology, San Giuseppe Moscati Hospital, Avellino, Italy.
(4)Matrahaza Healthcare Center and University Teaching Hospital, Matrahaza, 
Hungary.
(5)ACRC/Arizona Clinical Research Center and Arizona Oncology, Tucson, AZ, USA.
(6)Compass Oncology, US Oncology Research, Tualatin, OR, USA.
(7)TESARO Inc, Waltham, MA, USA.
(8)The West Clinic, Memphis, TN, USA.
(9)Indiana University School of Medicine, South Bend, IN, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2015 Sep;16(9):1006-7.

BACKGROUND: Highly emetogenic chemotherapy induces emesis in almost all patients 
in the absence of prophylaxis. Guidelines recommend use of a neurokinin-1 (NK-1) 
receptor antagonist in conjunction with a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist and 
corticosteroid in patients receiving highly emetogenic chemotherapy. We aimed to 
assess rolapitant, an NK-1 receptor antagonist, for prevention of 
chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting in patients with cancer after 
administration of cisplatin-based highly emetogenic chemotherapy.
METHODS: We conducted two global, randomised, double-blind, active-controlled, 
phase 3 trials (HEC-1 and HEC-2) at 155 cancer centres (76 in HEC-1 and 79 in 
HEC-2) in 26 countries (17 in HEC-1 and 14 in HEC-2). We enrolled patients with 
cancer aged 18 years or older, who had not previously been treated with 
cisplatin, with a Karnofsky performance score of 60 or higher, and a predicted 
life expectancy of 4 months or longer. We used an interactive web-based 
randomisation system to randomly assign patients to treatment. Patients were 
stratified by sex and randomly allocated to either oral rolapitant (180 mg dose; 
rolapitant group) or a placebo that was identical in appearance (active control 
group) about 1-2 h before administration of highly emetogenic chemotherapy. All 
patients received granisetron (10 μg/kg intravenously) and dexamethasone (20 mg 
orally) on day 1, and dexamethasone (8 mg orally) twice daily on days 2-4. Every 
cycle was a minimum of 14 days. In up to five subsequent cycles, patients were 
allowed to receive the same study drug they were assigned in cycle 1, unless 
removed at the clinician's discretion. Patients could also choose to leave the 
study at any point. Efficacy analysis was done in the modified 
intention-to-treat population (comprising all patients who received at least one 
dose of study drug at a cancer centre compliant with Good Clinical Practice 
[GCP]). The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients achieving a complete 
response (no emesis or use of rescue medication) in the delayed phase (>24-120 h 
after initiation of chemotherapy) in cycle 1. These studies are registered with 
ClinicalTrials.gov, numbers NCT01499849 and NCT01500213. Both studies have been 
completed.
FINDINGS: Between Feb 21, 2012, and March 12, 2014, 532 patients in HEC-1 and 
555 patients in HEC-2 were randomly assigned to treatment. 526 patients in HEC-1 
(264 rolapitant and 262 active control) and 544 in HEC-2 (271 rolapitant and 273 
active control) received at least one dose of study drug at a GCP-compliant site 
and were included in the modified intention-to-treat population. A significantly 
greater proportion of patients in the rolapitant group had complete responses in 
the delayed phase than did patients in the active control group (HEC-1: 192 
[73%] vs 153 [58%]; odds ratio 1·9, 95% CI 1·3-2·7; p=0·0006; HEC-2: 190 [70%] 
vs 169 [62%]; 1·4, 1·0-2·1; p=0·0426; pooled studies: 382 [71%] vs 322 [60%]; 
1·6, 1·3-2·1; p=0·0001). The incidence of adverse events was similar across 
treatment groups. The most commonly reported treatment-related 
treatment-emergent adverse events in the rolapitant versus active control groups 
were headache (three [<1%] vs two [<1%]), hiccups (three [<1%] vs four [<1%]), 
constipation (two [<1%] vs three [<1%]), and dyspepsia (two [<1%] vs three 
[<1%]). For cycle 1, the most common grade 3-5 adverse events in patients 
allocated rolapitant versus active control were neutropenia (HEC-1: nine [3%] vs 
14 [5%]; HEC-2: 16 [6%] vs 14 [5%]), anaemia (HEC-1: one [<1%] vs one [<1%]; 
HEC-2: seven [3%] vs two [<1%]), and leucopenia (HEC-1: six [2%] vs two [<1%]; 
HEC-2: two [<1%] vs two [<1%]). No serious treatment-emergent adverse events 
were treatment related, and no treatment-related treatment-emergent adverse 
events resulted in death.
INTERPRETATION: Rolapitant in combination with a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist and 
dexamethasone is well-tolerated and shows superiority over active control for 
the prevention of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting during the at-risk 
period (120 h) after administration of highly emetogenic cisplatin-based 
chemotherapy.
FUNDING: TESARO, Inc.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00035-2
PMID: 26272769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Infancy. 2015 Jul-Aug;20(4):353-376. doi: 10.1111/infa.12086.

Pathways among Caregiver Education, Household Resources, and Infant Growth in 39 
Low- and Middle-Income Countries.

Bornstein MH(1), Putnick DL(1), Bradley RH(2), Lansford JE(3), Deater-Deckard 
K(4).

Author information:
(1)Child and Family Research, Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child 
Health and Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Public Health 
Service.
(2)Arizona State University.
(3)Duke University.
(4)Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University.

Caregiver education is known to relate to the growth of children, but possible 
mediation mechanisms of this association are poorly characterized and generally 
lack empirical support. We test whether instructional capital (caregiver 
education) leads to improved infant growth through availability of physical 
capital (household resources) across a wide swath of low- and middle-income 
countries (LMIC). Using the Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS3), we 
explore relations among caregiver education, household resources, and infant (M 
age = .99 years) growth in 117,881 families living in 39 LMIC. Overall, 
household resources mediated 76% of the small association between caregiver 
education and infant growth. When disaggregated by countries characterized by 
low, medium, and high levels of human development (as indexed by average life 
expectancy, education, and gross domestic product), household resources mediated 
48% to 78% of the association between caregiver education and infant growth. 
Caregiver education had effects on infant growth through household resources in 
countries characterized by low, medium, and high levels of human development; 
for girls and boys; and controlling for indexes of infant feeding and health.

DOI: 10.1111/infa.12086
PMCID: PMC4530992
PMID: 26273231


447. Thorac Cancer. 2015 Jan;6(1):38-42. doi: 10.1111/1759-7714.12137. Epub 2015
Jan  7.

Prognostic factors in patients with postoperative brain recurrence from 
completely resected non-small cell lung cancer.

Kanou T(1), Okami J(1), Tokunaga T(1), Ishida D(1), Kuno H(1), Higashiyama M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Thoracic Surgery, Osaka Medical Center for Cancer and 
Cardiovascular Diseases Osaka, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Treatment strategies for brain metastasis from lung cancer have been 
making progress. The aim of this retrospective analysis was to investigate the 
post-recurrent prognostic factors in patients with brain metastasis after 
complete resection of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 40 patients found to 
have postoperative brain metastasis from NSCLC in our institution from 2002 to 
2008. All patients had undergone radical pulmonary resection for the lung 
cancer. The impact of numerous variables on survival were assessed, including 
gender, age, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), tumor size, N status, histological 
type, number of brain metastases, tumor size of brain metastasis, presence of 
symptoms from the brain tumor(s), and use of perioperative chemotherapy.
RESULTS: The median follow-up was 20.6 months (range, 3.4-66 months). The 
five-year survival rate from the diagnosis of brain recurrence was 22.5%. In 
univariate analysis, the favorable prognostic factors after brain recurrence 
included a normal range of CEA, no extracranial metastasis, no symptoms from the 
brain metastasis, brain metastasis (less than 2 cm), and radical treatment 
(craniotomy or stereotactic radiosurgery [SRS]). The multivariate Cox model 
identified that a small brain metastasis and radical treatment were independent 
favorable prognostic factors.
CONCLUSIONS: This study found that the implementation of radical therapy for 
metastatic brain tumor(s) when the tumor is still small contributed to an 
increase in patients' life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/1759-7714.12137
PMCID: PMC4448474
PMID: 26273333


448. Bone Res. 2014 Apr 29;2:14001. doi: 10.1038/boneres.2014.1. eCollection
2014.

Osteoporosis in men: a review.

Adler RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology Section, McGuire Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Richmond, VA, 
USA and Endocrine Division, Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine 
, Richmond, VA, USA.

Osteoporosis and consequent fracture are not limited to postmenopausal women. 
There is increasing attention being paid to osteoporosis in older men. Men 
suffer osteoporotic fractures about 10 years later in life than women, but life 
expectancy is increasing faster in men than women. Thus, men are living long 
enough to fracture, and when they do the consequences are greater than in women, 
with men having about twice the 1-year fatality rate after hip fracture, 
compared to women. Men at high risk for fracture include those men who have 
already had a fragility fracture, men on oral glucocorticoids or those men being 
treated for prostate cancer with androgen deprivation therapy. Beyond these high 
risk men, there are many other risk factors and secondary causes of osteoporosis 
in men. Evaluation includes careful history and physical examination to reveal 
potential secondary causes, including many medications, a short list of 
laboratory tests, and bone mineral density testing by dual energy X-ray 
absorptiometry (DXA) of spine and hip. Recently, international organizations 
have advocated a single normative database for interpreting DXA testing in men 
and women. The consequences of this change need to be determined. There are 
several choices of therapy for osteoporosis in men, with most fracture reduction 
estimation based on studies in women.

DOI: 10.1038/boneres.2014.1
PMCID: PMC4472130
PMID: 26273515


449. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:370274. doi: 10.1155/2015/370274. Epub 2015 Jul
26.

The Adoption of Smoking and Its Effect on the Mortality Gender Gap in 
Netherlands: A Historical Perspective.

Janssen F(1), van Poppel F(2).

Author information:
(1)Population Research Centre, University of Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands ; 
Netherlands Interdisciplinary Demographic Institute (NIDI/KNAW), The Hague, 
Netherlands.
(2)Netherlands Interdisciplinary Demographic Institute (NIDI/KNAW), The Hague, 
Netherlands.

We examine in depth the effect of differences in the smoking adoption patterns 
of men and women on the mortality gender gap in Netherlands, employing a 
historical perspective. Using an indirect estimation technique based on observed 
lung cancer mortality from 1931 to 2012, we estimated lifetime smoking 
prevalence and smoking-attributable mortality. We decomposed the sex difference 
in life expectancy at birth into smoking-related and nonsmoking-related overall 
and cause-specific mortality. The smoking epidemic in Netherlands, which started 
among men born around 1850 and among women from birth cohort 1900 onwards, 
contributed substantially to the increasing sex difference in life expectancy at 
birth from 1931 (1.3 years) to 1982 (6.7 years), the subsequent decline to 3.7 
years in 2012, and the high excess mortality among Dutch men born between 1895 
and 1910. Smoking-related cancer mortality contributed most to the increase in 
the sex difference, whereas smoking-related cardiovascular disease mortality was 
mainly responsible for the decline from 1983 onwards. Examining 
nonsmoking-related (cause-specific) mortality shed new light on the mortality 
gender gap and revealed the important role of smoking-related cancers, the 
continuation of excess mortality among women aged 40-50, and a smaller role of 
biological factors in the sex difference than was previously estimated.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/370274
PMCID: PMC4529900
PMID: 26273613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. J Appl Microbiol. 2015 Dec;119(6):1613-23. doi: 10.1111/jam.12932. Epub 2015
Oct  1.

Potential application of corn starch edible films with spice essential oils for 
the shelf life extension of red meat.

Radha Krishnan K(1)(2), Babuskin S(1), Rakhavan KR(1), Tharavin R(1), Azhagu 
Saravana Babu P(1), Sivarajan M(3), Sukumar M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Food Technology, A.C.Tech., Anna University, Chennai, India.
(2)Department of Food Processing Technology, CIT, Assam, India.
(3)Chemical Engineering Division, Central Leather Research Institute, Chennai, 
India.

AIM: To investigate the effect of corn starch (CS) edible films with spice oils 
on the stability of raw beef during refrigerated storage.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The antimicrobial properties of corn starch films 
containing 0-4·0% (w/v) ratios of clove (CL) and cinnamon (CI) essential oils 
(EOs) were tested against seven meat spoilage organisms by zone inhibition test. 
Effects of CS films containing 3% CL or CI or a mixture of CL + CI were also 
tested in raw beef stored at 4°C. Meat samples were analysed for pH, microbial 
counts, colour values and Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) values 
for a period of 15 days. CS films with CL + CI resulted in a significant 
reduction in microbial populations in the meat samples and also improved meat 
colour stability at the end of storage period.
CONCLUSIONS: The incorporation of spice EOs in CS films may provide 
antimicrobial and antioxidant activities that could improve the stability of raw 
meat.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: Results from this study may be applied in 
meat industries as an additional barrier to control microbial spoilage as well 
as lipid oxidation in meat products.

© 2015 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/jam.12932
PMID: 26274630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Vox Sang. 2016 Jan;110(1):20-6. doi: 10.1111/vox.12317. Epub 2015 Aug 14.

Additive solutions differentially affect metabolic and functional parameters of 
platelet concentrates.

Leitner GC(1), List J(2), Horvath M(1), Eichelberger B(1), Panzer S(1), 
Jilma-Stohlawetz P(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Blood Group Serology and Transfusion Medicine, Medical 
University, Vienna, Austria.
(2)Department of Hematology, Hanuschkrankenhaus, Vienna, Austria.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Medical University, Vienna, Austria.

BACKGROUND: Pathogen inactivation (PI) of platelet concentrates with extension 
of shelf life to 7 days requires the use of platelet additive solutions (PAS). 
We examined the quality of platelets resuspended in three different PAS stored 
for up to 7 days.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twelve triple adult dose platelet concentrates (PC) were 
collected using the TrimaAccel® collection system. Each highly concentrated 
product was divided into three equal parts, and the additive solutions 
(Composol® or SSP+® or Intersol™) were added to a final concentration of 56% PAS 
and 44% plasma. Samples were drawn on days 1, 5 and 7 to measure pH, glucose, 
lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), lactate, mean platelet volume (MPV) and the 
aggregation response to collagen and the thrombin receptor agonist peptide-6. 
Further, p-selectin expression on platelets was assessed.
RESULTS: No statistically significant changes were observed for pH and MPV 
during 7 days of storage in all PAS containing PCs, whereas glucose decreased 
and LDH and lactate increased over time (P < 0·05). These changes were 
particularly evident in Intersol PCs on days 5 and 7 compared with Composol® PCs 
or SSP+® PCs (P < 0·05). Platelets from Intersol PCs exhibited the highest 
baseline activation of p-selectin and showed reduced collagen- and 
TRAP-6-induced aggregation.
CONCLUSION: Resuspension of platelets in Intersol for 7 days results in 
increased platelet activation and platelet metabolism compared with SSP+® or 
Composol®. Further clinical studies are needed to evaluate whether the observed 
differences in PAS-PCs affect the recovery rate or the life span of transfused 
platelets.

