North Carolina4Department of Medicine, Duke University School of Medicine, 
Durham, North Carolina5Center for Health Services Research in Primary Care, 
Durham Veterans Affairs Medical.
(4)Department of Radiology, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, North 
Carolina.
(5)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Duke University School of Medicine, 
Durham, North Carolina.
(6)Duke Evidence Synthesis Group, Duke Clinical Research Institute, Durham, 
North Carolina4Department of Medicine, Duke University School of Medicine, 
Durham, North Carolina.
(7)Duke Evidence Synthesis Group, Duke Clinical Research Institute, Durham, 
North Carolina.

Erratum in
    JAMA. 2016 Apr 5;315(13):1406.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2016 Mar 15;164(6):JC26.
    JAMA. 2016 Apr 5;315(13):1402.
    JAMA. 2016 Apr 5;315(13):1402-3.

IMPORTANCE: Patients need to consider both benefits and harms of breast cancer 
screening.
OBJECTIVE: To systematically synthesize available evidence on the association of 
mammographic screening and clinical breast examination (CBE) at different ages 
and intervals with breast cancer mortality, overdiagnosis, false-positive biopsy 
findings, life expectancy, and quality-adjusted life expectancy.
EVIDENCE REVIEW: We searched PubMed (to March 6, 2014), CINAHL (to September 10, 
2013), and PsycINFO (to September 10, 2013) for systematic reviews, randomized 
clinical trials (RCTs) (with no limit to publication date), and observational 
and modeling studies published after January 1, 2000, as well as systematic 
reviews of all study designs. Included studies (7 reviews, 10 RCTs, 72 
observational, 1 modeling) provided evidence on the association between 
screening with mammography, CBE, or both and prespecified critical outcomes 
among women at average risk of breast cancer (no known genetic susceptibility, 
family history, previous breast neoplasia, or chest irradiation). We used 
summary estimates from existing reviews, supplemented by qualitative synthesis 
of studies not included in those reviews.
FINDINGS: Across all ages of women at average risk, pooled estimates of 
association between mammography screening and mortality reduction after 13 years 
of follow-up were similar for 3 meta-analyses of clinical trials (UK Independent 
Panel: relative risk [RR], 0.80 [95% CI, 0.73-0.89]; Canadian Task Force: RR, 
0.82 [95% CI, 0.74-0.94]; Cochrane: RR, 0.81 [95% CI, 0.74-0.87]); were greater 
in a meta-analysis of cohort studies (RR, 0.75 [95% CI, 0.69 to 0.81]); and were 
comparable in a modeling study (CISNET; median RR equivalent among 7 models, 
0.85 [range, 0.77-0.93]). Uncertainty remains about the magnitude of associated 
mortality reduction in the entire US population, among women 40 to 49 years, and 
with annual screening compared with biennial screening. There is uncertainty 
about the magnitude of overdiagnosis associated with different screening 
strategies, attributable in part to lack of consensus on methods of estimation 
and the importance of ductal carcinoma in situ in overdiagnosis. For women with 
a first mammography screening at age 40 years, estimated 10-year cumulative risk 
of a false-positive biopsy result was higher (7.0% [95% CI, 6.1%-7.8%]) for 
annual compared with biennial (4.8% [95% CI, 4.4%-5.2%]) screening. Although 
10-year probabilities of false-positive biopsy results were similar for women 
beginning screening at age 50 years, indirect estimates of lifetime probability 
of false-positive results were lower. Evidence for the relationship between 
screening and life expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy was low in 
quality. There was no direct evidence for any additional mortality benefit 
associated with the addition of CBE to mammography, but observational evidence 
from the United States and Canada suggested an increase in false-positive 
findings compared with mammography alone, with both studies finding an estimated 
55 additional false-positive findings per extra breast cancer detected with the 
addition of CBE.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: For women of all ages at average risk, screening was 
associated with a reduction in breast cancer mortality of approximately 20%, 
although there was uncertainty about quantitative estimates of outcomes for 
different breast cancer screening strategies in the United States. These 
findings and the related uncertainty should be considered when making 
recommendations based on judgments about the balance of benefits and harms of 
breast cancer screening.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2015.13183
PMID: 26501537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. JAMA Oncol. 2016 Jan;2(1):19-21. doi: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2015.4191.

Perspectives on Cost and Value in Cancer Care.

Saltz LB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New 
York.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2015.4191
PMID: 26501848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. JAMA Intern Med. 2015 Dec;175(12):1949-50. doi:
10.1001/jamainternmed.2015.5941.

Targeting Vascular Risk Factors in Older Adults: From Polypill to Personalized 
Prevention.

Mossello E(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine and Cardiology, Department of Experimental and 
Clinical Medicine, University of Florence and Careggi Teaching Hospital, 
Florence, Italy.

Comment on
    JAMA Intern Med. 2015 Dec;175(12):1994-6.
    JAMA Intern Med. 2015 Dec;175(12):1942-9.

DOI: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2015.5941
PMID: 26502030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. JAMA Intern Med. 2015 Dec;175(12):1942-9. doi:
10.1001/jamainternmed.2015.5110.

Rates of Deintensification of Blood Pressure and Glycemic Medication Treatment 
Based on Levels of Control and Life Expectancy in Older Patients With Diabetes 
Mellitus.

Sussman JB(1), Kerr EA(1), Saini SD(1), Holleman RG(2), Klamerus ML(2), Min 
LC(1), Vijan S(1), Hofer TP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Center for Clinical Management Research, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan2Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan Medical 
School, Ann Arbor3Institute of Healthcare Policy and Innovation, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor.
(2)Department of Veterans Affairs Center for Clinical Management Research, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan.

Comment in
    JAMA Intern Med. 2015 Dec;175(12):1949-50.
    BMJ. 2015;351:h5698.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2016 Jan;12(1):3.
    Evid Based Med. 2016 Aug;21(4):158.

IMPORTANCE: Older patients with diabetes mellitus receiving medical treatment 
whose blood pressure (BP) or blood glucose level are potentially dangerously low 
are rarely deintensified. Given the established risks of low blood pressure and 
blood glucose, this is a major opportunity to decrease medication harm.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the rate of BP- and blood glucose-lowering medicine 
deintensification among older patients with type 1 or 2 diabetes mellitus who 
potentially receive overtreatment.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Retrospective cohort study conducted using 
data from the US Veterans Health Administration. Participants included 211 667 
patients older than 70 years with diabetes mellitus who were receiving active 
treatment (defined as BP-lowering medications other than angiotensin-converting 
enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers, or glucose-lowering 
medications other than metformin hydrochloride) from January 1 to December 31, 
2012. Data analysis was performed December 10, 2013, to July 20, 2015.
EXPOSURES: Participants were eligible for deintensification of treatment if they 
had low BP or a low hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) level in their last measurement in 
2012. We defined very low BP as less than 120/65 mm Hg, moderately low as 
systolic BP of 120 to 129 mm Hg or diastolic BP (DBP) less than 65 mm Hg, very 
low HbA1c as less than 6.0%, and moderately low HbA1c as 6.0% to 6.4%. All other 
values were not considered low.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Medication deintensification, defined as 
discontinuation or dosage decrease within 6 months after the index measurement.
RESULTS: The actively treated BP cohort included 211,667 participants, more than 
half of whom had moderately or very low BP levels. Of 104,486 patients with BP 
levels that were not low, treatment in 15.1% was deintensified. Of 25,955 
patients with moderately low BP levels, treatment in 16.0% was deintensified. 
Among 81,226 patients with very low BP levels, 18.8% underwent BP medication 
deintensification. Of patients with very low BP levels whose treatment was not 
deintensified, only 0.2% had a follow-up BP measurement that was elevated (BP 
≥140/90 mm Hg). The actively treated HbA1c cohort included 179,991 participants. 
Of 143,305 patients with HbA1c levels that were not low, treatment in 17.5% was 
deintensified. Of 23,769 patients with moderately low HbA1c levels, treatment in 
20.9% was deintensified. Among 12,917 patients with very low HbA1c levels, 27.0% 
underwent medication deintensification. Of patients with very low HbA1c levels 
whose treatment was not deintensified, fewer than 0.8% had a follow-up HbA1c 
measurement that was elevated (≥7.5%).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Among older patients whose treatment resulted in very 
low levels of HbA1c or BP, 27% or fewer underwent deintensification, 
representing a lost opportunity to reduce overtreatment. Low HbA1c or BP values 
or low life expectancy had little association with deintensification events. 
Practice guidelines and performance measures should place more focus on reducing 
overtreatment through deintensification.

DOI: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2015.5110
PMCID: PMC9617259
PMID: 26502220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None reported.


182. JAMA Intern Med. 2015 Dec;175(12):1970-1. doi:
10.1001/jamainternmed.2015.6466.

Progress Toward Consensus on Breast Cancer Screening Guidelines and Reducing 
Screening Harms.

Kerlikowske K(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Medicine and Epidemiology & Biostatistics, University of 
California, San Francisco.

Comment in
    JAMA Intern Med. 2016 Apr;176(4):561-2.
    JAMA Intern Med. 2016 Apr;176(4):562-3.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2015 Oct 20;314(15):1599-614.

IMPORTANCE: Breast cancer is a leading cause of premature mortality among US 
women. Early detection has been shown to be associated with reduced breast 
cancer morbidity and mortality.
OBJECTIVE: To update the American Cancer Society (ACS) 2003 breast cancer 
screening guideline for women at average risk for breast cancer.
PROCESS: The ACS commissioned a systematic evidence review of the breast cancer 
screening literature to inform the update and a supplemental analysis of 
mammography registry data to address questions related to the screening 
interval. Formulation of recommendations was based on the quality of the 
evidence and judgment (incorporating values and preferences) about the balance 
of benefits and harms.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: Screening mammography in women aged 40 to 69 years is 
associated with a reduction in breast cancer deaths across a range of study 
designs, and inferential evidence supports breast cancer screening for women 70 
years and older who are in good health. Estimates of the cumulative lifetime 
risk of false-positive examination results are greater if screening begins at 
younger ages because of the greater number of mammograms, as well as the higher 
recall rate in younger women. The quality of the evidence for overdiagnosis is 
not sufficient to estimate a lifetime risk with confidence. Analysis examining 
the screening interval demonstrates more favorable tumor characteristics when 
premenopausal women are screened annually vs biennially. Evidence does not 
support routine clinical breast examination as a screening method for women at 
average risk.
RECOMMENDATIONS: The ACS recommends that women with an average risk of breast 
cancer should undergo regular screening mammography starting at age 45 years 
(strong recommendation). Women aged 45 to 54 years should be screened annually 
(qualified recommendation). Women 55 years and older should transition to 
biennial screening or have the opportunity to continue screening annually 
(qualified recommendation). Women should have the opportunity to begin annual 
screening between the ages of 40 and 44 years (qualified recommendation). Women 
should continue screening mammography as long as their overall health is good 
and they have a life expectancy of 10 years or longer (qualified 
recommendation). The ACS does not recommend clinical breast examination for 
breast cancer screening among average-risk women at any age (qualified 
recommendation).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: These updated ACS guidelines provide evidence-based 
recommendations for breast cancer screening for women at average risk of breast 
cancer. These recommendations should be considered by physicians and women in 
discussions about breast cancer screening.

DOI: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2015.6466
PMCID: PMC4869718
PMID: 26502319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None reported.


183. JAMA Intern Med. 2015 Dec;175(12):1986-8. doi:
10.1001/jamainternmed.2015.5542.

Subjective, Objective, and Observed Long-term Survival: A Longitudinal Cohort 
Study.

Romo RD(1), Lee SJ(1), Miao Y(2), Boscardin WJ(3), Smith AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, University of California-San Francisco2Geriatrics and 
Extended Care, San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center.
(2)Geriatrics and Extended Care, San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center.
(3)Division of Geriatrics, University of California-San Francisco.

DOI: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2015.5542
PMCID: PMC4699655
PMID: 26502331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
report.


184. BMC Infect Dis. 2015 Oct 27;15:465. doi: 10.1186/s12879-015-1193-4.

Cost-effectiveness evaluation of quadrivalent influenza vaccines for seasonal 
influenza prevention: a dynamic modeling study of Canada and the United Kingdom.

Thommes EW(1)(2), Ismaila A(3)(4), Chit A(5)(6), Meier G(7), Bauch CT(8).

Author information:
(1)GSK, 7333 Mississauga Road, Mississauga, ON, L5N 6L4, Canada. 
edward.w.thommes@gsk.com.
(2)Department of Mathematics & Statistics, University of Guelph, Guelph, 
Ontario, Canada. edward.w.thommes@gsk.com.
(3)GSK, 7333 Mississauga Road, Mississauga, ON, L5N 6L4, Canada. 
afisi.s.ismaila@gsk.com.
(4)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. afisi.s.ismaila@gsk.com.
(5)Sanofi Pasteur, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. aymanchit@gmail.com.
(6)Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada. aymanchit@gmail.com.
(7)GSK Vaccines, Wavre, Belgium. GENEVIEVE.C.MEIER@GSK.COM.
(8)Department of Applied Mathematics, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario, 
Canada. chris.bauch@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The adoption of quadrivalent influenza vaccine (QIV) to replace 
trivalent influenza vaccine (TIV) in immunization programs is growing worldwide, 
thus helping to address the problem of influenza B lineage mismatch. However, 
the price per dose of QIV is higher than that of TIV. In such circumstances, 
cost-effectiveness analyses provide important and relevant information to inform 
national health recommendations and implementation decisions. This analysis 
assessed potential vaccine impacts and cost-effectiveness of a country-wide 
switch from TIV to QIV, in Canada and the UK, from a third-party payer 
perspective.
METHODS: An age-stratified, dynamic four-strain transmission model which 
incorporates strain interaction, transmission-rate seasonality and age-specific 
mixing in the population was used. Model input data were obtained from published 
literature and online databases. In Canada, we evaluated a switch from TIV to 
QIV in the entire population. For the UK, we considered two strategies: Children 
aged 2-17 years who receive the live-attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV) switch 
to the quadrivalent formulation (QLAIV), while individuals aged > 18 years 
switch from TIV to QIV. Two different vaccination uptake scenarios in children 
(UK1 and UK2, which differ in the vaccine uptake level) were considered. Health 
and cost outcomes for both vaccination strategies, and the cost-effectiveness of 
switching from TIV/LAIV to QIV/QLAIV, were estimated from the payer perspective. 
For Canada and the UK, cost and outcomes were discounted using 5 % and 3.5 % per 
year, respectively.
RESULTS: Overall, in an average influenza season, our model predicts that a 
nationwide switch from TIV to QIV would prevent 4.6 % influenza cases, 4.9 % 
general practitioner (GP) visits, 5.7 % each of emergency room (ER) visits and 
hospitalizations, and 6.8 % deaths in Canada. In the UK (UK1/UK2), implementing 
QIV would prevent 1.4 %/1.8 % of influenza cases, 1.6 %/2.0 % each of GP and ER 
visits, 1.5 %/1.9 % of hospitalizations and 4.3 %/4.9 % of deaths. Discounted 
incremental cost-utility ratios of $7,961 and £7,989/£7,234 per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained are estimated for Canada and the UK (UK1/UK2), both of 
which are well within their respective cost-effectiveness threshold values.
CONCLUSIONS: Switching from TIV to QIV is expected to be a cost-effective 
strategy to further reduce the burden of influenza in both countries.

DOI: 10.1186/s12879-015-1193-4
PMCID: PMC4623926
PMID: 26503131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. J Surg Case Rep. 2015 Oct 26;2015(10):rjv084. doi: 10.1093/jscr/rjv084.

Osteopetrosis and Chiari type I malformation: a rare association.

Ekici MA(1), Cıkla U(1), Bauer A(1), Başkaya MK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, School of Medicine and Public Health, 
University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53792, USA.
(2)Department of Neurological Surgery, School of Medicine and Public Health, 
University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53792, USA m.baskaya@neurosurgery.wisc.edu.

Osteopetrosis (OP) is hereditary X-linked, autosomal recessive (ARO), or 
autosomal dominant (ADO) skeletal disease. ARO has two subtypes, which are 
infantile malignant and intermediate type. ARO and X-linked OP have poor 
clinical outcome. ADO is called adult benign type because of the normal life 
expectancy, which has type I and type II. Here, the authors present an ADO 
patient with Chiari type I. Concomitant ADO with Chiari type I malformation is 
an extremely rare condition. Literature research yielded only one case report to 
date.

Published by Oxford University Press and JSCR Publishing Ltd. All rights 
reserved. © The Author 2015.

DOI: 10.1093/jscr/rjv084
PMCID: PMC4620537
PMID: 26503583


186. Gac Sanit. 2015 Nov-Dec;29(6):401-3. doi: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2015.08.007.

[The EQ-5D as a measure of health outcomes].

[Article in Spanish]

Cabasés JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Economía, Universidad Pública de Navarra, Pamplona, España. 
Electronic address: jmcabases@unavarra.es.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2015.08.007
PMID: 26505321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Neuroepidemiology. 2015;45(3):161-76. doi: 10.1159/000441085. Epub 2015 Oct
28.

Update on the Global Burden of Ischemic and Hemorrhagic Stroke in 1990-2013: The 
GBD 2013 Study.

Feigin VL(1), Krishnamurthi RV, Parmar P, Norrving B, Mensah GA, Bennett DA, 
Barker-Collo S, Moran AE, Sacco RL, Truelsen T, Davis S, Pandian JD, Naghavi M, 
Forouzanfar MH, Nguyen G, Johnson CO, Vos T, Meretoja A, Murray CJ, Roth GA; GBD 
2013 Writing Group; GBD 2013 Stroke Panel Experts Group.

Collaborators: Abera SF, Akinyemi RO, Al-Shahi Salman R, Anderson CS, Bahit MC, 
Banerjee A, Basu S, Beauchamp NJ, Bornstein NM, Brainin M, Cabral NL, 
Campos-Nonato I, Caso V, Catalá-López F, Chowdhury R, Christensen HK, Connor MD, 
DeVeber G, Dharmaratne SD, Dokova K, Donnan G, Endres M, Fernandes JG, Gankpé F, 
Geleijnse JM, Gillum RF, Giroud M, Hamadeh RR, Hankey GJ, Jeemon P, Jonas JB, 
Kazi DS, Kengne AP, Kim D, Kissela BM, Kokubo Y, Kosen S, Kravchenko M, Lavados 
PM, Liu M, Lotufo PA, Mackay MT, Malekzadeh R, Mehndiratta MM, Melaku YA, 
Misganaw A, Nand D, Piradov M, Pourmalek F, Ricci S, Rojas-Rueda D, Roy N, 
Sahathevan R, Sampson UK, Shalamov N, Sheth KN, Shinohara Y, Shiue I, Soljak M, 
Sposato LA, Stroumpoulis K, Tanne D, Thrift AG, Tirschwell DL, Varakin Y, 
Venketasubramanian N, Vlassov VV, Wang W, Westerman R, Wolfe C, Yu C, Yunjin K, 
Bahit MC, Thrift AG, Meretoja A, Stavreski B, Anderson CS, Pearse E, Donnan G, 
Hankey GJ, Mackay MT, Davis S, Ademi Z, Brainin M, Guliyev T, Hamadeh RR, 
Harewood H, Springer K, Leite Ida C, Fernandes JG, Cabral NL, Lotufo PA, Dokova 
K, Pourmalek F, deVeber G, Sposato LA, Lindsay MP, Riccio PM, Lavados PM, Li B, 
Yu C, Jiang G, Ma J, Zhou M, Liu M, Zhu S, Wang W, Liang X, Zhang Y, 
Alcalá-Cerra G, Christensen HK, Truelsen T, Abd-Allah F, Temesgen A, Sahle BW, 
Abera SF, Melaku YA, Nand D, Giroud M, Jonas JB, Endres M, Westerman R, 
Stroumpoulis K, Prabhakaran D, Pandian JD, Mehndiratta MM, Roy N, Jeemon P, 
Gupta R, Rajagopalan V, Kosen S, Warouw TS, Malekzadeh R, O'Donnell MJ, Tanne D, 
Bornstein NM, Ricci S, Caso V, Kokubo Y, Shinohara Y, Asad MM, Bwire VK, Jee SH, 
Khang YH, Yunjin K, Sahathevan R, Campos-Nonato I, Gankpé F, Myint CY, Geleijnse 
JM, Parmar P, Krishnamurthi RV, Barker-Collo S, Feigin VL, Akinyemi RO, Norheim 
O, Khalifa SE, Kravchenko M, Piradov M, Shalamov N, Vlassov VV, Varakin Y, 
Ngirabega Jde D, Nyemazi JP, Muhimpundu MA, Saeedi M, Bedi N, Venketasubramanian 
N, Kengne AP, Rojas-Rueda D, Catalá-López F, Dharmaratne SD, Norrving B, 
Havmoeller R, Atwine L, Banerjee A, Wolfe C, Bennett DA, Cundiff DK, O'Callaghan 
F, Shiue I, Critchley JA, Ezzati M, Soljak M, Connor MD, Rothwell PM, Chowdhury 
R, Al-Shahi Salman R, Whiteley W, Chen Z, Colomar M, Durrani AM, Dayama A, Moran 
AE, Misganaw A, Kissela BM, Amlie-Lefond C, Johnson CO, Huang C, Murray CJ, 
Sumeet C, Kim D, Cundiff DK, Tirschwell DL, Kazi DS, Qato D, Kabagambe EK, Ding 
E, Bukhman G, Kwan G, Mensah GA, Thurston GD, Nguyen G, Roth GA, Coresh J, 
Lefondulq K, Sheth KN, Corriere MA, Forouzanfar MH, Naghavi M, Mainoo N, 
Beauchamp NJ, Sacco RL, Gillum RF, Basu S, Schwartz SM, Chugh S, Fung T, Vos T, 
Byers TE, Sampson UK, Rocca WA, Lo W.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Stroke and Applied Neurosciences, Auckland University 
of Technology, Auckland, New.

BACKGROUND: Global stroke epidemiology is changing rapidly. Although 
age-standardized rates of stroke mortality have decreased worldwide in the past 
2 decades, the absolute numbers of people who have a stroke every year, and live 
with the consequences of stroke or die from their stroke, are increasing. 
Regular updates on the current level of stroke burden are important for 
advancing our knowledge on stroke epidemiology and facilitate organization and 
planning of evidence-based stroke care.
OBJECTIVES: This study aims to estimate incidence, prevalence, mortality, 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) and years lived with disability (YLDs) 
and their trends for ischemic stroke (IS) and hemorrhagic stroke (HS) for 188 
countries from 1990 to 2013.
METHODOLOGY: Stroke incidence, prevalence, mortality, DALYs and YLDs were 
estimated using all available data on mortality and stroke incidence, prevalence 
and excess mortality. Statistical models and country-level covariate data were 
employed, and all rates were age-standardized to a global population. All 
estimates were produced with 95% uncertainty intervals (UIs).
RESULTS: In 2013, there were globally almost 25.7 million stroke survivors (71% 
with IS), 6.5 million deaths from stroke (51% died from IS), 113 million DALYs 
due to stroke (58% due to IS) and 10.3 million new strokes (67% IS). Over the 
1990-2013 period, there was a significant increase in the absolute number of 
DALYs due to IS, and of deaths from IS and HS, survivors and incident events for 
both IS and HS. The preponderance of the burden of stroke continued to reside in 
developing countries, comprising 75.2% of deaths from stroke and 81.0% of 
stroke-related DALYs. Globally, the proportional contribution of stroke-related 
DALYs and deaths due to stroke compared to all diseases increased from 1990 
(3.54% (95% UI 3.11-4.00) and 9.66% (95% UI 8.47-10.70), respectively) to 2013 
(4.62% (95% UI 4.01-5.30) and 11.75% (95% UI 10.45-13.31), respectively), but 
there was a diverging trend in developed and developing countries with a 
significant increase in DALYs and deaths in developing countries, and no 
measurable change in the proportional contribution of DALYs and deaths from 
stroke in developed countries.
CONCLUSION: Global stroke burden continues to increase globally. More efficient 
stroke prevention and management strategies are urgently needed to halt and 
eventually reverse the stroke pandemic, while universal access to organized 
stroke services should be a priority. © 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000441085
PMCID: PMC4633282
PMID: 26505981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest All the authors declare 
that they have no conflict of interest.


188. Neuroepidemiology. 2015;45(3):177-89. doi: 10.1159/000441087. Epub 2015 Oct
28.

Stroke Prevalence, Mortality and Disability-Adjusted Life Years in Children and 
Youth Aged 0-19 Years: Data from the Global and Regional Burden of Stroke 2013.

Krishnamurthi RV(1), deVeber G, Feigin VL, Barker-Collo S, Fullerton H, Mackay 
MT, O'Callahan F, Lindsay MP, Kolk A, Lo W, Shah P, Linds A, Jones K, Parmar P, 
Taylor S, Norrving B, Mensah GA, Moran AE, Naghavi M, Forouzanfar MH, Nguyen G, 
Johnson CO, Vos T, Murray CJ, Roth GA; GBD 2013 Stroke Panel Experts Group.

Collaborators: Thrift AG, Meretoja A, Stavreski B, Anderson CS, Pearse E, Donnan 
G, Hankey GJ, Mackay MT, Davis S, Ademi Z, Brainin M, Guliyev T, Hamadeh RR, 
Harewood H, Springer K, Leite Ida C, Fernandes JG, Cabral NL, Lotufo PA, Dokova 
K, Pourmalek F, deVeber G, Sposato LA, Lindsay MP, Riccio PM, Lavados PM, Li B, 
Yu C, Jiang G, Ma J, Zhou M, Liu M, Zhu S, Wang W, Liang X, Zhang Y, 
Alcalá-Cerra G, Christensen HK, Truelsen T, Abd-Allah F, Temesgen A, Sahle BW, 
Abera SF, Melaku YA, Nand D, Giroud M, Jonas JB, Endres M, Westerman R, 
Stroumpoulis K, Prabhakaran D, Pandian JD, Mehndiratta MM, Roy N, Jeemon P, 
Gupta R, Rajagopalan V, Kosen S, Warouw TS, Malekzadeh R, O'Donnell MJ, Tanne D, 
Bornstein NM, Ricci S, Caso V, Kokubo Y, Shinohara Y, Asad MM, Bwire VK, Jee SH, 
Khang YH, Yunjin K, Sahathevan R, Campos-Nonato I, Gankpé F, Myint CY, Geleijnse 
JM, Parmar P, Krishnamurthi RV, Barker-Collo S, Feigin VL, Akinyemi RO, Norheim 
O, Khalifa SE, Kravchenko M, Piradov M, Shalamov N, Vlassov VV, Varakin Y, 
Ngirabega Jde D, Nyemazi JP, Muhimpundu MA, Saeedi M, Bedi N, Venketasubramanian 
N, Kengne AP, Rojas-Rueda D, Catalá-López F, Dharmaratne SD, Norrving B, 
Havmoeller R, Atwine L, Banerjee A, Wolfe C, Bennett DA, Cundiff DK, O'Callaghan 
F, Shiue I, Critchley JA, Ezzati M, Soljak M, Connor MD, Rothwell PM, Chowdhury 
R, Al-Shahi Salman R, Whiteley W, Chen Z, Colomar M, Durrani AM, Dayama A, Moran 
AE, Misganaw A, Kissela BM, Amlie-Lefond C, Johnson CO, Huang C, Murray CJ, 
Sumeet C, Kim D, Cundiff DK, Tirschwell DL, Kazi DS, Qato D, Kabagambe EK, Ding 
E, Bukhman G, Kwan G, Mensah GA, Thurston GD, Nguyen G, Roth GA, Coresh J, 
Lefondulq K, Sheth KN, Corriere MA, Forouzanfar MH, Naghavi M, Mainoo N, 
Beauchamp NJ, Sacco RL, Gillum RF, Basu S, Schwartz SM, Chugh S, Fung T, Vos T, 
Byers TE, Sampson UK, Rocca WA, Lo W.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Stroke and Applied Neurosciences, Auckland University 
of Technology, Auckland, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: There is increasing recognition of stroke as an important 
contributor to childhood morbidity and mortality. Current estimates of global 
childhood stroke burden and its temporal trends are sparse. Accurate and 
up-to-date estimates of childhood stroke burden are important for planning 
research and the resulting evidence-based strategies for stroke prevention and 
management.
OBJECTIVES: To estimate the prevalence, mortality and disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs) for ischemic stroke (IS), hemorrhagic stroke (HS) and all stroke 
types combined globally from 1990 to 2013.
METHODOLOGY: Stroke prevalence, mortality and DALYs were estimated using the 
Global Burden of Disease 2013 methods. All available data on stroke-related 
incidence, prevalence, excess mortality and deaths were collected. Statistical 
models and country-level covariates were employed to produce comprehensive and 
consistent estimates of prevalence and mortality. Stroke-specific disability 
weights were used to estimate years lived with disability and DALYs. Means and 
95% uncertainty intervals (UIs) were calculated for prevalence, mortality and 
DALYs. The median of the percent change and 95% UI were determined for the 
period from 1990 to 2013.
RESULTS: In 2013, there were 97,792 (95% UI 90,564-106,016) prevalent cases of 
childhood IS and 67,621 (95% UI 62,899-72,214) prevalent cases of childhood HS, 
reflecting an increase of approximately 35% in the absolute numbers of prevalent 
childhood strokes since 1990. There were 33,069 (95% UI 28,627-38,998) deaths 
and 2,615,118 (95% UI 2,265,801-3,090,822) DALYs due to childhood stroke in 2013 
globally, reflecting an approximately 200% decrease in the absolute numbers of 
death and DALYs in childhood stroke since 1990. Between 1990 and 2013, there 
were significant increases in the global prevalence rates of childhood IS, as 
well as significant decreases in the global death rate and DALYs rate of all 
strokes in those of age 0-19 years. While prevalence rates for childhood IS and 
HS decreased significantly in developed countries, a decline was seen only in 
HS, with no change in prevalence rates of IS, in developing countries. The 
childhood stroke DALY rates in 2013 were 13.3 (95% UI 10.6-17.1) for IS and 92.7 
(95% UI 80.5-109.7) for HS per 100,000. While the prevalence of childhood IS 
compared to childhood HS was similar globally, the death rate and DALY rate of 
HS was 6- to 7-fold higher than that of IS. In 2013, the prevalence rate of both 
childhood IS and HS was significantly higher in developed countries than in 
developing countries. Conversely, both death and DALY rates for all stroke types 
were significantly lower in developed countries than in developing countries in 
2013. Men showed a trend toward higher childhood stroke death rates (1.5 
(1.3-1.8) per 100,000) than women (1.1 (0.9-1.5) per 100,000) and higher 
childhood stroke DALY rates (120.1 (100.8-143.4) per 100,000) than women (90.9 
(74.6-122.4) per 100,000) globally in 2013.
CONCLUSIONS: Globally, between 1990 and 2013, there was a significant increase 
in the absolute number of prevalent childhood strokes, while absolute numbers 
and rates of both deaths and DALYs declined significantly. The gap in childhood 
stroke burden between developed and developing countries is closing; however, in 
2013, childhood stroke burden in terms of absolute numbers of prevalent strokes, 
deaths and DALYs remained much higher in developing countries. There is an 
urgent need to address these disparities with both global and country-level 
initiatives targeting prevention as well as improved access to acute and chronic 
stroke care.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000441087
PMID: 26505982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Neuroepidemiology. 2015;45(3):190-202. doi: 10.1159/000441098. Epub 2015 Oct
28.

Stroke Prevalence, Mortality and Disability-Adjusted Life Years in Adults Aged 
20-64 Years in 1990-2013: Data from the Global Burden of Disease 2013 Study.

Krishnamurthi RV(1), Moran AE, Feigin VL, Barker-Collo S, Norrving B, Mensah GA, 
Taylor S, Naghavi M, Forouzanfar MH, Nguyen G, Johnson CO, Vos T, Murray CJ, 
Roth GA; GBD 2013 Stroke Panel Experts Group.

Collaborators: Thrift AG, Meretoja A, Stavreski B, Anderson CS, Pearse E, Donnan 
G, Hankey GJ, Mackay MT, Davis S, Ademi Z, Brainin M, Guliyev T, Hamadeh RR, 
Harewood H, Springer K, Leite Ida C, Fernandes JG, Cabral NL, Lotufo PA, Dokova 
K, Pourmalek F, deVeber G, Sposato LA, Lindsay MP, Riccio PM, Lavados PM, Li B, 
Yu C, Jiang G, Ma J, Zhou M, Liu M, Zhu S, Wang W, Liang X, Zhang Y, 
Alcalá-Cerra G, Christensen HK, Truelsen T, Abd-Allah F, Temesgen A, Sahle BW, 
Abera SF, Melaku YA, Nand D, Giroud M, Jonas JB, Endres M, Westerman R, 
Stroumpoulis K, Prabhakaran D, Pandian JD, Mehndiratta MM, Roy N, Jeemon P, 
Gupta R, Rajagopalan V, Kosen S, Warouw TS, Malekzadeh R, O'Donnell MJ, Tanne D, 
Bornstein NM, Ricci S, Caso V, Kokubo Y, Shinohara Y, Asad MM, Bwire VK, Jee SH, 
Khang YH, Yunjin K, Sahathevan R, Campos-Nonato I, Gankpé F, Myint CY, Geleijnse 
JM, Parmar P, Krishnamurthi RV, Barker-Collo S, Feigin VL, Akinyemi RO, Norheim 
O, Khalifa SE, Kravchenko M, Piradov M, Shalamov N, Vlassov VV, Varakin Y, 
Ngirabega Jde D, Nyemazi JP, Muhimpundu MA, Saeedi M, Bedi N, Venketasubramanian 
N, Kengne AP, Rojas-Rueda D, Catalá-López F, Dharmaratne SD, Norrving B, 
Havmoeller R, Atwine L, Banerjee A, Wolfe C, Bennett DA, Cundiff DK, O'Callaghan 
F, Shiue I, Critchley JA, Ezzati M, Soljak M, Connor MD, Rothwell PM, Chowdhury 
R, Al-Shahi Salman R, Whiteley W, Chen Z, Colomar M, Durrani AM, Dayama A, Moran 
AE, Misganaw A, Kissela BM, Amlie-Lefond C, Johnson CO, Huang C, Murray CJ, 
Sumeet C, Kim D, Cundiff DK, Tirschwell DL, Kazi DS, Qato D, Kabagambe EK, Ding 
E, Bukhman G, Kwan G, Mensah GA, Thurston GD, Nguyen G, Roth GA, Coresh J, 
Lefondulq K, Sheth KN, Corriere MA, Forouzanfar MH, Naghavi M, Mainoo N, 
Beauchamp NJ, Sacco RL, Gillum RF, Basu S, Schwartz SM, Chugh S, Fung T, Vos T, 
Byers TE, Sampson UK, Rocca WA, Lo W.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Stroke and Applied Neurosciences, Auckland University 
of Technology, Auckland, New Zealand.

Erratum in
    Neuroepidemiology. 2016;46(3):181.

BACKGROUND: Recent evidence suggests that stroke is increasing as a cause of 
morbidity and mortality in younger adults, where it carries particular 
significance for working individuals. Accurate and up-to-date estimates of 
stroke burden are important for planning stroke prevention and management in 
younger adults.
OBJECTIVES: This study aims to estimate prevalence, mortality and 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) and their trends for total, ischemic 
stroke (IS) and hemorrhagic stroke (HS) in the world for 1990-2013 in adults 
aged 20-64 years.
METHODOLOGY: Stroke prevalence, mortality and DALYs were estimated using the 
Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2013 methods. All available data on rates of 
stroke incidence, excess mortality, prevalence and death were collected. 
Statistical models were used along with country-level covariates to estimate 
country-specific stroke burden. Stroke-specific disability weights were used to 
compute years lived with disability and DALYs. Means and 95% uncertainty 
intervals (UIs) were calculated for prevalence, mortality and DALYs. The median 
of the percent change and 95% UI were determined for the period from 1990 to 
2013.
RESULTS: In 2013, in younger adults aged 20-64 years, the global prevalence of 
HS was 3,725,085 cases (95% UI 3,548,098-3,871,018) and IS was 7,258,216 cases 
(95% UI 6,996,272-7,569,403). Globally, between 1990 and 2013, there were 
significant increases in absolute numbers and prevalence rates of both HS and IS 
for younger adults. There were 1,483,707 (95% UI 1,340,579-1,658,929) stroke 
deaths globally among younger adults but the number of deaths from HS (1,047,735 
(95% UI 945,087-1,184,192)) was significantly higher than the number of deaths 
from IS (435,972 (95% UI 354,018-504,656)). There was a 20.1% (95% UI -23.6 to 
-10.3) decline in the number of total stroke deaths among younger adults in 
developed countries but a 36.7% (95% UI 26.3-48.5) increase in developing 
countries. Death rates for all strokes among younger adults declined 
significantly in developing countries from 47 (95% UI 42.6-51.7) in 1990 to 39 
(95% UI 35.0-43.8) in 2013. Death rates for all strokes among younger adults 
also declined significantly in developed countries from 33.3 (95% UI 29.8-37.0) 
in 1990 to 23.5 (95% UI 21.1-26.9) in 2013. A significant decrease in HS death 
rates for younger adults was seen only in developed countries between 1990 and 
2013 (19.8 (95% UI 16.9-22.6) and 13.7 (95% UI 12.1-15.9)) per 100,000). No 
significant change was detected in IS death rates among younger adults. The 
total DALYs from all strokes in those aged 20-64 years was 51,429,440 (95% UI 
46,561,382-57,320,085). Globally, there was a 24.4% (95% UI 16.6-33.8) increase 
in total DALY numbers for this age group, with a 20% (95% UI 11.7-31.1) and 
37.3% (95% UI 23.4-52.2) increase in HS and IS numbers, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Between 1990 and 2013, there were significant increases in 
prevalent cases, total deaths and DALYs due to HS and IS in younger adults aged 
20-64 years. Death and DALY rates declined in both developed and developing 
countries but a significant increase in absolute numbers of stroke deaths among 
younger adults was detected in developing countries. Most of the burden of 
stroke was in developing countries. In 2013, the greatest burden of stroke among 
younger adults was due to HS. While the trends in declining death and DALY rates 
in developing countries are encouraging, these regions still fall far behind 
those of developed regions of the world. A more aggressive approach toward 
primary prevention and increased access to adequate healthcare services for 
stroke is required to substantially narrow these disparities.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000441098
PMID: 26505983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Neuroepidemiology. 2015;45(3):203-14. doi: 10.1159/000441103. Epub 2015 Oct
28.

Sex Differences in Stroke Incidence, Prevalence, Mortality and 
Disability-Adjusted Life Years: Results from the Global Burden of Disease Study 
2013.

Barker-Collo S(1), Bennett DA, Krishnamurthi RV, Parmar P, Feigin VL, Naghavi M, 
Forouzanfar MH, Johnson CO, Nguyen G, Mensah GA, Vos T, Murray CJ, Roth GA; GBD 
2013 Writing Group; GBD 2013 Stroke Panel Experts Group.

Collaborators: Abera SF, Akinyemi RO, Al-Shahi Salman R, Anderson CS, Bahit MC, 
Banerjee A, Basu S, Beauchamp NJ, Bornstein NM, Brainin M, Cabral NL, 
Campos-Nonato I, Caso V, Catalá-López F, Chowdhury R, Christensen HK, Connor MD, 
DeVeber G, Dharmaratne SD, Dokova K, Donnan G, Endres M, Fernandes JG, Gankpé F, 
Geleijnse JM, Gillum RF, Giroud M, Hamadeh RR, Hankey GJ, Jeemon P, Jonas JB, 
Kazi DS, Kengne AP, Kim D, Kissela BM, Kokubo Y, Kosen S, Kravchenko M, Lavados 
PM, Liu M, Lotufo PA, Mackay MT, Malekzadeh R, Mehndiratta MM, Melaku YA, 
Misganaw A, Nand D, Piradov M, Pourmalek F, Ricci S, Rojas-Rueda D, Roy N, 
Sahathevan R, Sampson UK, Shalamov N, Sheth KN, Shinohara Y, Shiue I, Soljak M, 
Sposato LA, Stroumpoulis K, Tanne D, Thrift AG, Tirschwell DL, Varakin Y, 
Venketasubramanian N, Vlassov VV, Wang W, Westerman R, Wolfe C, Yu C, Yunjin K, 
Bahit MC, Thrift AG, Meretoja A, Stavreski B, Anderson CS, Pearse E, Donnan G, 
Hankey GJ, Mackay MT, Davis S, Ademi Z, Brainin M, Guliyev T, Hamadeh RR, 
Harewood H, Springer K, Leite Ida C, Fernandes JG, Cabral NL, Lotufo PA, Dokova 
K, Pourmalek F, deVeber G, Sposato LA, Lindsay MP, Riccio PM, Lavados PM, Li B, 
Yu C, Jiang G, Ma J, Zhou M, Liu M, Zhu S, Wang W, Liang X, Zhang Y, 
Alcalá-Cerra G, Christensen HK, Truelsen T, Abd-Allah F, Temesgen A, Sahle BW, 
Abera SF, Melaku YA, Nand D, Giroud M, Jonas JB, Endres M, Westerman R, 
Stroumpoulis K, Prabhakaran D, Pandian JD, Mehndiratta MM, Roy N, Jeemon P, 
Gupta R, Rajagopalan V, Kosen S, Warouw TS, Malekzadeh R, O'Donnell MJ, Tanne D, 
Bornstein NM, Ricci S, Caso V, Kokubo Y, Shinohara Y, Asad MM, Bwire VK, Jee SH, 
Khang YH, Yunjin K, Sahathevan R, Campos-Nonato I, Gankpé F, Myint CY, Geleijnse 
JM, Parmar P, Krishnamurthi RV, Barker-Collo S, Feigin VL, Akinyemi RO, Norheim 
O, Khalifa SE, Kravchenko M, Piradov M, Shalamov N, Vlassov VV, Varakin Y, 
Ngirabega Jde D, Nyemazi JP, Muhimpundu MA, Saeedi M, Bedi N, Venketasubramanian 
N, Kengne AP, Rojas-Rueda D, Catalá-López F, Dharmaratne SD, Norrving B, 
Havmoeller R, Atwine L, Banerjee A, Wolfe C, Bennett DA, Cundiff DK, O'Callaghan 
F, Shiue I, Critchley JA, Ezzati M, Soljak M, Connor MD, Rothwell PM, Chowdhury 
R, Al-Shahi Salman R, Whiteley W, Chen Z, Colomar M, Durrani AM, Dayama A, Moran 
AE, Misganaw A, Kissela BM, Amlie-Lefond C, Johnson CO, Huang C, Murray CJ, 
Sumeet C, Kim D, Cundiff DK, Tirschwell DL, Kazi DS, Qato D, Kabagambe EK, Ding 
E, Bukhman G, Kwan G, Mensah GA, Thurston GD, Nguyen G, Roth GA, Coresh J, 
Lefondulq K, Sheth KN, Corriere MA, Forouzanfar MH, Naghavi M, Mainoo N, 
Beauchamp NJ, Sacco RL, Gillum RF, Basu S, Schwartz SM, Chugh S, Fung T, Vos T, 
Byers TE, Sampson UK, Rocca WA, Lo W.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, The University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: Accurate information on stroke burden in men and women are important 
for evidence-based healthcare planning and resource allocation. Previously, 
limited research suggested that the absolute number of deaths from stroke in 
women was greater than in men, but the incidence and mortality rates were 
greater in men. However, sex differences in various metrics of stroke burden on 
a global scale have not been a subject of comprehensive and comparable 
assessment for most regions of the world, nor have sex differences in stroke 
burden been examined for trends over time.
METHODS: Stroke incidence, prevalence, mortality, disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs) and healthy years lost due to disability were estimated as part of the 
Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2013 Study. Data inputs included all available 
information on stroke incidence, prevalence and death and case fatality rates. 
Analysis was performed separately by sex and 5-year age categories for 188 
countries. Statistical models were employed to produce globally comprehensive 
results over time. All rates were age-standardized to a global population and 
95% uncertainty intervals (UIs) were computed.
FINDINGS: In 2013, global ischemic stroke (IS) and hemorrhagic stroke (HS) 
incidence (per 100,000) in men (IS 132.77 (95% UI 125.34-142.77); HS 64.89 (95% 
UI 59.82-68.85)) exceeded those of women (IS 98.85 (95% UI 92.11-106.62); HS 
45.48 (95% UI 42.43-48.53)). IS incidence rates were lower in 2013 compared with 
1990 rates for both sexes (1990 male IS incidence 147.40 (95% UI 137.87-157.66); 
1990 female IS incidence 113.31 (95% UI 103.52-123.40)), but the only 
significant change in IS incidence was among women. Changes in global HS 
incidence were not statistically significant for males (1990 = 65.31 (95% UI 
61.63-69.0), 2013 = 64.89 (95% UI 59.82-68.85)), but was significant for females 
(1990 = 64.892 (95% UI 59.82-68.85), 2013 = 45.48 (95% UI 42.427-48.53)). The 
number of DALYs related to IS rose from 1990 (male = 16.62 (95% UI 13.27-19.62), 
female = 17.53 (95% UI 14.08-20.33)) to 2013 (male = 25.22 (95% UI 20.57-29.13), 
female = 22.21 (95% UI 17.71-25.50)). The number of DALYs associated with HS 
also rose steadily and was higher than DALYs for IS at each time point (male 
1990 = 29.91 (95% UI 25.66-34.54), male 2013 = 37.27 (95% UI 32.29-45.12); 
female 1990 = 26.05 (95% UI 21.70-30.90), female 2013 = 28.18 (95% UI 
23.68-33.80)).
INTERPRETATION: Globally, men continue to have a higher incidence of IS than 
women while significant sex differences in the incidence of HS were not 
observed. The total health loss due to stroke as measured by DALYs was similar 
for men and women for both stroke subtypes in 2013, with HS higher than IS. Both 
IS and HS DALYs show an increasing trend for both men and women since 1990, 
which is statistically significant only for IS among men. Ongoing monitoring of 
sex differences in the burden of stroke will be needed to determine if disease 
rates among men and women continue to diverge. Sex disparities related to stroke 
will have important clinical and policy implications that can guide funding and 
resource allocation for national, regional and global health programs.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000441103
PMCID: PMC4632242
PMID: 26505984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Nat Commun. 2015 Oct 27;6:8466. doi: 10.1038/ncomms9466.

Structural and functional rejuvenation of the aged brain by an approved 
anti-asthmatic drug.

Marschallinger J(1)(2), Schäffner I(3), Klein B(1)(2), Gelfert R(1)(2), Rivera 
FJ(1)(2), Illes S(1)(2), Grassner L(1)(2)(4), Janssen M(1)(2), Rotheneichner 
P(1)(2)(5), Schmuckermair C(6), Coras R(7), Boccazzi M(8), Chishty M(9), Lagler 
FB(10), Renic M(11), Bauer HC(2)(12), Singewald N(6), Blümcke I(7), Bogdahn 
U(13), Couillard-Despres S(2)(5), Lie DC(3), Abbracchio MP(8), Aigner L(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Regenerative Medicine, Paracelsus Medical University, 
5020 Salzburg, Austria.
(2)Spinal Cord Injury and Tissue Regeneration Center Salzburg (SCI-TReCS), 
Paracelsus Medical University, 5020 Salzburg, Austria.
(3)Institute of Biochemistry, Emil Fischer Center, 
Friedrich-Alexander-University Erlangen-Nürnberg, 91054 Erlangen, Germany.
(4)Center for Spinal Cord Injuries, BG Trauma Center Murnau, 82418 Murnau am 
Staffelsee, Germany.
(5)Institute of Experimental Neuroregeneration, Paracelsus Medical University, 
5020 Salzburg, Austria.
(6)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Institute of Pharmacy and CMBI, 
Leopold-Franzens-University of Innsbruck, 6020 Innsbruck, Austria.
(7)Department of Neuropathology, University Hospital Erlangen, 91054 Erlangen, 
Germany.
(8)Department of Pharmacological and Biomolecular Sciences, University of Milan, 
20133 Milan, Italy.
(9)Pharmidex, London W1S 1RR, UK.
(10)Department for Paediatrics, Institute for Inborn Errors of Metabolism, 
Paracelsus Medical University, 5020 Salzburg, Austria.
(11)Croatian Institute for Brain Research, University of Zagreb School of 
Medicine, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia.
(12)Institute of Tendon and Bone Regeneration, Paracelsus Medical University, 
5020 Salzburg, Austria.
(13)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Regensburg, 93053 Regensburg, 
Germany.

As human life expectancy has improved rapidly in industrialized societies, 
age-related cognitive impairment presents an increasing challenge. Targeting 
histopathological processes that correlate with age-related cognitive declines, 
such as neuroinflammation, low levels of neurogenesis, disrupted blood-brain 
barrier and altered neuronal activity, might lead to structural and functional 
rejuvenation of the aged brain. Here we show that a 6-week treatment of young (4 
months) and old (20 months) rats with montelukast, a marketed anti-asthmatic 
drug antagonizing leukotriene receptors, reduces neuroinflammation, elevates 
hippocampal neurogenesis and improves learning and memory in old animals. By 
using gene knockdown and knockout approaches, we demonstrate that the effect is 
mediated through inhibition of the GPR17 receptor. This work illustrates that 
inhibition of leukotriene receptor signalling might represent a safe and 
druggable target to restore cognitive functions in old individuals and paves the 
way for future clinical translation of leukotriene receptor inhibition for the 
treatment of dementias.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms9466
PMCID: PMC4639806
PMID: 26506265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: L.A., S.C.-D. and J.M. are inventors on the 
patent application WO 2014090990 A1 ‘Leukotriene pathway antagonists for the 
treatment of dementia, cognitive deficits in parkinson's disease and/or learning 
and memory deficiencies in parkinson's disease'. All other authors declare no 
competing financial interests.


192. PLoS One. 2015 Oct 27;10(10):e0139560. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0139560. 
eCollection 2015.

Utilities of Patients with Hypertension in Northern Vietnam.

Nguyen TP(1), Krabbe PF(2), Nguyen TB(3), Schuiling-Veninga CC(1), Wright EP(4), 
Postma MJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Unit of PharmacoEpidemiology&PharmacoEconomics (PE2), 
University of Groningen, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, 9713AV, Groningen, The 
Netherlands.
(2)University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Department of 
Epidemiology, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Health Economic, Ha Noi University of Medicine, Ha Noi, 
Vietnam.
(4)Medical Committee Netherlands-Vietnam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, Unit of PharmacoEpidemiology&PharmacoEconomics (PE2), 
University of Groningen, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, 9713AV, Groningen, The 
Netherlands; Institute for Science in Healthy Aging & healthcaRE (SHARE), 
University Medical Center Groningen (UMCG), Groningen, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: The study aims to inform potential cost-effectiveness analysis of 
hypertension management in Vietnam by providing utilities and predictors of 
utilities in patients with hypertension.
METHODS: Hypertensive patients up to 80 years old visiting the hospital were 
invited to participate in a survey using Quality Metric's Short-form 36v2TM 
translated into Vietnamese. Health-state utilities were estimated by applying a 
previously published algorithm.
RESULTS: The mean utility of the 691 patients interviewed was 0.73. Controlling 
for age, sex, blood pressure (BP) stage, and history of stroke, the utilities in 
older patients were lower than those in younger ones, and statistically 
significantly different between the extremes of youngest and oldest groups (p = 
0.03). Utility in males was higher than in females (p = 0.002). As expected, 
patients with a history of stroke appeared to exhibit lower utilities than 
patients without such history, but the difference was not statistically 
significant (p = 0.73). Patients with more than three comorbidities did have 
lower utilities than patients without comorbidity (p = 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Health-state utilities found among hypertensive patients in Vietnam 
were similar to those found in other international studies. It is suggested that 
lower of health-state utilities exist among those patients who were older, 
female or had more than three comorbidities in comparison with respective 
reference groups. However, further research for confirmation is required. The 
data from this study provide a potential reference on health-state utilities of 
hypertensive patients in Vietnam as an input for future cost-effectiveness 
analysis of interventions. Also, it may serve as a reference for other similar 
populations, especially in the context of similar environments in low income 
countries.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0139560
PMCID: PMC4623979
PMID: 26506444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have no 
competing interests to declare.


193. PLoS One. 2015 Oct 27;10(10):e0140704. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0140704. 
eCollection 2015.

The Cost Effectiveness of Psychological and Pharmacological Interventions for 
Social Anxiety Disorder: A Model-Based Economic Analysis.

Mavranezouli I(1), Mayo-Wilson E(1), Dias S(2), Kew K(1), Clark DM(3), Ades 
AE(2), Pilling S(1).

Author information:
(1)National Collaborating Centre for Mental Health, Centre for Outcomes Research 
and Effectiveness, Research Department of Clinical, Educational & Health 
Psychology, University College London, London, United Kingdom.
(2)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, 
United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford & Oxford 
Cognitive Health NIHR Clinical Research Facility, Oxford, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Social anxiety disorder is one of the most persistent and common 
anxiety disorders. Individually delivered psychological therapies are the most 
effective treatment options for adults with social anxiety disorder, but they 
are associated with high intervention costs. Therefore, the objective of this 
study was to assess the relative cost effectiveness of a variety of 
psychological and pharmacological interventions for adults with social anxiety 
disorder.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was constructed to compare costs and quality 
adjusted life years (QALYs) of 28 interventions for social anxiety disorder from 
the perspective of the British National Health Service and personal social 
services. Efficacy data were derived from a systematic review and network 
meta-analysis. Other model input parameters were based on published literature 
and national sources, supplemented by expert opinion.
RESULTS: Individual cognitive therapy was the most cost-effective intervention 
for adults with social anxiety disorder, followed by generic individual 
cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT), phenelzine and book-based self-help without 
support. Other drugs, group-based psychological interventions and other 
individually delivered psychological interventions were less cost-effective. 
Results were influenced by limited evidence suggesting superiority of 
psychological interventions over drugs in retaining long-term effects. The 
analysis did not take into account side effects of drugs.
CONCLUSION: Various forms of individually delivered CBT appear to be the most 
cost-effective options for the treatment of adults with social anxiety disorder. 
Consideration of side effects of drugs would only strengthen this conclusion, as 
it would improve even further the cost effectiveness of individually delivered 
CBT relative to phenelzine, which was the next most cost-effective option, due 
to the serious side effects associated with phenelzine. Further research needs 
to determine more accurately the long-term comparative benefits and harms of 
psychological and pharmacological interventions for social anxiety disorder and 
establish their relative cost effectiveness with greater certainty.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0140704
PMCID: PMC4624770
PMID: 26506554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have read the 
journal's policy and the authors of this manuscript have the following competing 
interests: IM, EMW, KK and SP received support from the National Collaborating 
Centre for Mental Health, which was in receipt of funding from the National 
Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), for the submitted work. SD and 
AEA received support from the NICE Clinical Guidelines Technical Support Unit, 
University of Bristol, with funding from the Centre for Clinical Practice 
(NICE). DMC is the developer of one of the versions of individual CBT under 
consideration (Cognitive Therapy following the Clark & Wells manual). The 
authors report no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.


194. Health Technol Assess. 2015 Oct;19(88):i-xxv, 1-118. doi: 10.3310/hta19880.

A randomised controlled trial of the clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of the levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system in 
primary care against standard treatment for menorrhagia: the ECLIPSE trial.

Gupta JK(1)(2), Daniels JP(3), Middleton LJ(3), Pattison HM(4), Prileszky G(5), 
Roberts TE(6), Sanghera S(6), Barton P(6), Gray R(7), Kai J(5); ECLIPSE 
Collaborative Group.

Collaborators: Kulshrestha RP, Kulshrestha S, O'Brien K, Coulson W, Craig J, 
Descals L, Kownacki A, Montague E, McKenzie B, Spooner CA, Sanganee N, Collier 
IP, Cope SJ, Goodwin A, Sheldrake LJ, Hanly C, Rajesh R, Hutchon S, Bingham T, 
Gupta JK, Ingram J, Ingram L, Soneja H, Pettinger R, Sadler C, Brown M, Chaffey 
J, Cowan V, Brain L, Pabla HS, Godridge H, Horner ME, Horton PD, McGhee MF, 
McGrath M, Sumner KR, Ward-Campbell GJ, Williams S, Madhavan P, Brewin L, 
Glenchcliffea A, Young DJ, Heslington K, Hunt D, Saikia-Varman N, Jones M, Kavi 
L, Kidd L, Kai J, Ladha K, Morris M, O'Neill K, Patel JN, Waddell JE, Beighton 
PG, Cole FH, Edwards RM, Thompson A, Ayres J, Davies J, Poltock TL, Smith M, 
Talbot H, Cuthbert AJ, Horwell S, Jenkins C, Sinha G, Weaver K, Goodwin B, Patel 
RP, Debenham SE, Cartmill AD, Parker S, Pennington E, Pennington SJ, Young GB, 
Butler S, Hamilton PA, Warhad L, Elliott J, Lawrence E, North J, Elliott CI, 
Jerome S, Shipman PA, Bagchi R, Sheerin N, Blackwall C, Divers V, Siddall J, 
Parle HJ, Read S, Patodi SK, Amis S, Moloney S, Leung HH, Obi HU, Sidhu M, Ahmed 
N, Carter SR, Davies W, Harvey H, Khanna K, Rice PF, Shapiro L, Stone J, Parkin 
T, Craig JM, Moss PJ, Steele V, Cartwright JE, Edward MG, Harrison C, Francis R, 
Hassall P, Lloyd CE, Haynes J, Budh-Raja S, Budh-Raja VP, Patel SP, Redferne JH, 
Deb S, Lancaster A, Powell MC, Wragg J, O'Brien DC, Milner S, Taylor DW, Davies 
D, Tangri AK, Tangri C, Amer S, Prileszky G, Warlow C, Whatmough P, Duncan CH, 
Bower W, Irani S, Rajput S, Rajput VK, Young K, Cooper RE, Chin K, Scott D, 
Stacey J, Dadd C, Joshi KG, Sundar K, Broomhead RM, Clarke MP, Sangha E, Wood J, 
Fitzgerald-Jones B, Harley-Mason GR, Coward AD, Coward CM, Pash J, Little HM, 
Macdonald AG, Williams JP, Marshall J, McBride H, Watson KA, Clay SN, Walker SA, 
Billington J, Griffiths H, Mehta R, Emslie CJ, Bath SS, Chiam W, Gordon KR, 
Latthe M, Nandi DK, Lilford VA, Smith G, Godfrey E, Griffiths S, Porter C, Baird 
MS, Crombie C, O'Donnell D, Horton V, Kelsey RE, Fletcher JD, Hall F, Lenton C, 
Allen MP, Heanue J, McDonnell JH, Hancock J, Pattni BL, Banerjee ST, Pate S.

Author information:
(1)School of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Birmingham, 
Birmingham, UK.
(2)Birmingham Women's Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Edgbaston, Birmingham, UK.
