purified the K167I variant. Moreover, we found that K167I significantly reduced 
polymerase activity. As a result, the K167I substitution reduced base excision 
repair (BER) efficiency when assayed in a reconstitution assay or when using 
cellular extracts. Finally, we observed EC cells expressing the K167I variant to 
be sensitive to DNA damaging agents. These results suggest the K167I variant 
affected pol β biochemical activity resulting in impaired BER function, which 
might subsequently contribute to genomic instability and cancer development.

DOI: 10.1038/srep15986
PMCID: PMC4630582
PMID: 26527528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. J Neurosci Nurs. 2015 Dec;47(6):333-9; quiz E1. doi: 
10.1097/JNN.0000000000000172.

The Elderly Person With Multiple Sclerosis: Clinical Implications for the 
Increasing Life-Span.

Buhse M(1).

Author information:
(1)Questions or comments about this article may be directed to Marijean Buhse, 
PhD RN NP, at Marijean.Buhse@stonybrook.edu. She is a Clinical Professer, Stony 
Brook University School of Nursing, Stony Brook; and a Nurse Practitioner, South 
Shore Neurologic, Patchogue, NY.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, unpredictable, progressive, and disabling 
autoimmune disease with significant neurodegenerative and inflammatory 
components. To effectively treat and care for older persons with MS, it is 
essential to examine the factors associated with a decrease in their quality of 
life. Typically, MS is diagnosed between 20 and 50 years old. Although not a 
fatal disease, the natural history data of persons with MS reveal survival 
approximately 38 years after diagnosis. With the advent of disease-modifying 
therapies, life-span has increased substantially over the past 2 decades among 
people with MS. Approximately 90% of people with MS now in their 20s may live 
into their 70s. Their quality of life as an older adult will be impacted by what 
we learn today. Currently, approximately a quarter of people with MS are mature 
adults over 65 years old. Older adults with MS are more likely to have a 
decreased health-related quality of life (HRQOL). HRQOL is a multidimensional 
construct that refers to an individual's physical functioning, ability to 
perform activities of daily living, sense of well-being, satisfaction with life, 
perception of psychological status, and social functioning. This article focuses 
on the current literature in HRQOL in older persons with MS. A specific aim is 
to examine the factors associated with a decreased QOL in older persons with MS. 
Nursing screening and implementation of interventions that may reduce these 
factors and improve function of patients will be discussed. Although measures to 
improve HRQOL do not substitute for treatment of the disease, knowledge of 
factors that reduce HRQOL is essential to understand patient perceptions of 
their health and disease.

DOI: 10.1097/JNN.0000000000000172
PMID: 26528951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Vox Sang. 2016 Apr;110(3):258-65. doi: 10.1111/vox.12362. Epub 2015 Nov 3.

Perceived blood transfusion safety: a cross-European comparison.

Merz EM(1), Zijlstra BJ(2), de Kort WL(3).

Author information:
(1)Sanquin Blood Supply, Amsterdam and VU University Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Sanquin Blood Supply, and Amsterdam Medical Center, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: During the past decades, blood transfusions have 
become an ever safer clinical procedure in developed countries. Extensive donor 
screening together with improved infectious disease testing has led to a 
minimization of risks for transfusion recipients. Still, the general public 
perceives the process of blood transfusion as risky.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study tested variation in perceived transfusion 
safety across countries and explained it with individual and country factors. We 
examined whether individual demographic and macro-level factors (i.e. Human 
Development Index and Power Distance Index) explain variation within and across 
European countries. We applied multilevel models to 2009 Eurobarometer data 
collected in 26 countries (N = 20 874).
RESULTS: Results were largely in line with expectations derived from risk 
perception and power and status difference theories. Generally, women, older 
adults, the lower educated and those earning lower incomes perceived heightened 
risk. Most of the variation across Europe was explained by the Human Development 
Index. Risk perception regarding blood transfusions was lower in countries with 
higher Human Development Indices, that is countries with higher average 
education, life expectancy and Gross Domestic Product.
CONCLUSION: This study provides new insights of how risk perception regarding 
blood transfusions is shaped within and across Europe. Both individual 
demographic factors and country characteristics play a role.

© 2015 International Society of Blood Transfusion.

DOI: 10.1111/vox.12362
PMID: 26529138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Eur J Pharm Sci. 2016 Jan 1;81:189-200. doi: 10.1016/j.ejps.2015.10.018.
Epub  2015 Oct 31.

Dose-response-time modelling: Second-generation turnover model with integral 
feedback control.

Andersson R(1), Jirstrand M(2), Peletier L(3), Chappell MJ(4), Evans ND(4), 
Gabrielsson J(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Engineering, University of Warwick, Coventry, United Kingdom. 
Electronic address: r.k.andersson@warwick.ac.uk.
(2)Fraunhofer-Chalmers Centre, Chalmers Science Park, Göteborg, Sweden.
(3)Mathematical Institute, Leiden University, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(4)School of Engineering, University of Warwick, Coventry, United Kingdom.
(5)Division of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Department of Biomedical Sciences 
and Veterinary Public Health, Swedish University of Agriculture Sciences, 
Uppsala, Sweden.

This study presents a dose-response-time (DRT) analysis based on a large 
preclinical biomarker dataset on the interaction between nicotinic acid (NiAc) 
and free fatty acids (FFA). Data were collected from studies that examined 
different rates, routes, and modes of NiAc provocations on the FFA time course. 
All information regarding the exposure to NiAc was excluded in order to 
demonstrate the utility of a DRT model. Special emphasis was placed on the 
selection process of the biophase model. An inhibitory Imax-model, driven by the 
biophase amount, acted on the turnover rate of FFA. A second generation NiAc/FFA 
model, which encompasses integral (slow buildup of tolerance - an extension of 
the previously used NiAc/FFA turnover models) and moderator (rapid and 
oscillatory) feedback control, was simultaneously fitted to all time courses in 
normal rats. The integral feedback control managed to capture an observed 90% 
adaptation (i.e., almost a full return to baseline) when 10 days constant-rate 
infusion protocols of NiAc were used. The half-life of the adaptation process 
had a 90% prediction interval between 3.5-12 in the present population. The 
pharmacodynamic parameter estimates were highly consistent when compared to an 
exposure-driven analysis, partly validating the DRT modelling approach and 
suggesting the potential of DRT analysis in areas where exposure data are not 
attainable. Finally, new numerical algorithms, which rely on sensitivity 
equations to robustly and efficiently compute the gradients in the parameter 
optimization, were successfully used for the mixed-effects approach in the 
parameter estimation.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejps.2015.10.018
PMID: 26529383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Zh Vopr Neirokhir Im N N Burdenko. 2015;79(3):34-44. doi: 
10.17116/neiro201579334-44.

Comprehensive assessment of the outcomes of surgical treatment of patients with 
metastatic spinal cord injuries.

[Article in English, Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Konovalov NA(1), Nazarenko AG(2), Asyutin DS(1), Solenkova AV(1), Onoprienko 
RA(1), Zakirov BA(1), Timonin SY(1), Cherkiev IU(1), Martynova MA(1), Kosyr'kova 
AV(1), Korolishin VA(1).

Author information:
(1)Burdenko Neurosurgical Institute, Moscow, Russia.
(2)Burdenko Neurosurgical Institute, Moscow, Russia; Clinical Hospital #1, 
Moscow, Russia.

INTRODUCTION: Every year the number of cancer patients increases due to 
increased life expectancy. According to various sources, metastases in the spine 
are found during autopsy in 30-90% of patients with a history of cancer. So far, 
there have been no full-scale studies of the quality of life of patients with 
various metastatic tumors of the spine who underwent surgical treatment in 
Russian literature. The main objective of this study was to demonstrate the need 
for implementing the comprehensive treatment of patients with metastases in the 
spine and target setting as the main tool to identify the factors that adversely 
affect the patients' quality of life.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The quality of life of 56 patients aged 16 to 81 years was 
assessed, including 26 males and 30 females. Twenty-six patients underwent 
surgical treatment between 2002 and 2009, and thirty patients underwent surgical 
treatment between 2009 and 2014. Kidney cancer was a primary disease in 30.3% of 
patients, multiple myeloma was a primary disease in 23.1% of cases, and the 
primary source of a tumor was not identified in cancer screening in 10.5% of 
cases. There were also isolated cases of melanoma, thymoma, metastases of tumors 
of the gastrointestinal tract, uterus, ovary, lung, prostate, pancreas, and the 
thyroid gland, which on the average amounted to 3.5% (1.8 to 7.14%). The quality 
of life of patients was studied using the EORTC QLQ C30 scale. The patients were 
surveyed prior to the surgery and then 1, 3, 6 and 12 months after surgical 
treatment during 1 year or until death. Preoperative and postoperative 
contrast-enhanced SCT and MRI examinations were used to control the extent of 
decompression of neural structures.
RESULTS: On the basis of these findings, the authors identified the main factors 
affecting the quality of life of patients and formulated a range of treatment 
goals for patients with metastases in the spine.
CONCLUSION: Surgical treatment has a positive effect on the quality of life of 
patients with metastases in the spine. However, it is not a key factor in the 
context of survival rate of these patients. Therefore, a decision on the 
possibility and necessity of surgical treatment should be taken in cooperation 
with the patient and oncologists of different specialties.

Publisher: На рост заболеваемости раком влияет увеличение средней 
продолжительности жизни людей в популяции. У 30-90% пациентов со злокачественной 
опухолью в анамнезе, по разным данным, обнаруживаются метастазы в позвоночник. В 
отечественной литературе нами не найдено исследований, подробно изучающих исходы 
лечения пациентов после хирургического лечения по поводу метастатического 
поражения позвоночника, и это обусловливает актуальность данной работы. Цель 
исследования - продемонстрировать необходимость внедрения в практику 
комплексного лечения пациентов с метастазами в позвоночник целеполагания как 
главного инструмента для выявления факторов, ухудшающих качество жизни 
пациентов. Материал и методы. Исследовано качество жизни 56 пациентов (26 мужчин 
и 30 женщин) в возрасте от 16 лет до 81 года. Из них 26 пациентам выполнено 
хирургическое лечение с 2002 по 2009 г. и 30 - с 2009 по 2014 г. У пациентов 
исходно диагностировали рак почки (30,3% случаев) и множественную миелому 
(23,1%), меланома, тимома, метастазы опухолей желудочно-кишечного тракта, матки, 
яичников, легких, предстательной, поджелудочной, щитовидной желез представлены в 
единичных случаях - в среднем 3,5% (от 1,8 до 7,14%). У 10,5% пациентов 
первичный источник опухоли при онкологическом поиске не выявлен. Качество жизни 
пациентов исследовалось по шкале EORTC QLQ-C30. Опрос проводился до операции и в 
течение 1 года после нее через 1, 3, 6 и 12 мес, либо до наступления смерти. Для 
контроля объема выполненной декомпрессии нервных структур использовались 
спиральное компьютерное и магнитно-резонансное томографические исследования с 
внутривенным контрастированием до и после операции. Результаты. На основании 
полученных данных авторам удалось выявить основные факторы, влияющие на качество 
жизни пациентов, и сформулировать номенклатуру цели лечения для пациентов с 
метастазами в позвоночник. Заключение. Хирургическое лечение положительно влияет 
на качество жизни пациентов с метастазами в позвоночник, однако в отношении их 
выживаемости оно не первостепенно. Поэтому решение о возможности и необходимости 
хирургического вмешательства должно приниматься совместно с пациентом и врачами 
онкологического профиля разных специальностей.

DOI: 10.17116/neiro201579334-44
PMID: 26529532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. J Med Assoc Thai. 2015 Sep;98 Suppl 8:S65-9.

Cost-Utility Analysis of Osteoporotic Hip Fractures in Thais.

Wajanavisit W, Woratanarat P, Sawatriawkul S, Lertbusayanukul C, 
Ongphiphadhanakul B.

A prospective study was conducted among osteoporotic hip fracture in 2008. It 
was aimed to assess cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) of hip fracture 
in the context of a developing country. The patients who were diagnosed as hip 
fracture and admitted to the orthopedic wards were included. Any pathological 
fractures or missing data were discarded from the analysis. Median cost was 
evaluated from a societal perspective. EQ-5D was used to assess health utility 
state and then converted into a time trade off Cost per QALYwas estimated at one 
year of follow-up. Forty-two patients completed a quality of life assessment. 
The average age was 75.6 years old and 71% were female. Most of them were 
undergone either hemiarthroplasty or internal fixation. The median total cost 
per year was US$ 4,210.60. The median QALY was 0.636 and cost per QALY was US$ 
6,620.52. Cost utility of a hip fracture in Thai setting was lower than other 
developed countries due to strong family support and insufficient 
rehabilitation. However it has high impact on 78.8% of the Thai Gross National 
Product. Prevention of hip fracture is needed in underdeveloped countries as 
much as others, worldwide.

PMID: 26529817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Bone Joint J. 2015 Nov;97-B(11):1493-500. doi:
10.1302/0301-620X.97B11.35634.

The clinical outcome of minimally invasive Phase 3 Oxford unicompartmental knee 
arthroplasty: a 15-year follow-up of 1000 UKAs.

Pandit H(1), Hamilton TW(1), Jenkins C(2), Mellon SJ(1), Dodd CA(2), Murray 
DW(3).

Author information:
(1)NDORMS, University of Oxford, Windmill Road, Oxford OX3 7LD, UK.
(2)Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre, Oxford University Hospitals Trust, Windmill 
Road, Oxford OX3 7LD, UK.
(3)Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre and NDORMS, University of Oxford, Windmill Road, 
Oxford OX3 7LD, UK.

There have been concerns about the long-term survival of unicompartmental knee 
arthroplasty (UKA). This prospective study reports the 15-year survival and 
ten-year functional outcome of a consecutive series of 1000 minimally invasive 
Phase 3 Oxford medial UKAs (818 patients, 393 men, 48%, 425 women, 52%, mean age 
66 years; 32 to 88). These were implanted by two surgeons involved with the 
design of the prosthesis to treat anteromedial osteoarthritis and spontaneous 
osteonecrosis of the knee, which are recommended indications. Patients were 
prospectively identified and followed up independently for a mean of 10.3 years 
(5.3 to 16.6). At ten years, the mean Oxford Knee Score was 40 (standard 
deviation (sd) 9; 2 to 48): 79% of knees (349) had an excellent or good outcome. 
There were 52 implant-related re-operations at a mean of 5.5 years (0.2 to 
14.7). The most common reasons for re-operation were arthritis in the lateral 
compartment (2.5%, 25 knees), bearing dislocation (0.7%, seven knees) and 
unexplained pain (0.7%, seven knees). When all implant-related re-operations 
were considered as failures, the ten-year rate of survival was 94% (95% 
confidence interval (CI) 92 to 96) and the 15-year survival rate 91% (CI 83 to 
98). When failure of the implant was the endpoint the 15-year survival was 99% 
(CI 96 to 100). This is the only large series of minimally invasive UKAs with 
15-year survival data. The results support the continued use of minimally 
invasive UKA for the recommended indications.

©2015 The British Editorial Society of Bone & Joint Surgery.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.97B11.35634
PMID: 26530651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. J Med Econ. 2016;19(3):259-64. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2015.1115764. Epub 2015
Nov  25.

Years of life lost due to metastatic melanoma in 12 countries.

Thiam A(1), Zhao Z(2), Quinn C(1), Barber B(2).

Author information:
(1)a a PRMA Consulting Ltd , Fleet, Hampshire , UK.
(2)b b Amgen, Global Health Economics , Thousand Oaks , CA , USA.

BACKGROUND: Regionally or distantly metastatic melanoma (stages IIIB/C and IV) 
place a high burden on society. To quantify this burden, this study estimated 
years of life lost (YLL) per patient for adults with metastatic melanoma in 12 
countries in 2014.
METHODS: General population growth and life expectancy were estimated from the 
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development data and life tables for 
each country. Incidence of melanoma and mortality rates for the disease were 
based on GLOBOCAN and US registry data. The prevalence of metastatic melanoma 
was calculated using mortality rates and survival data from patients with 
melanoma. YLL per patient was estimated by the difference between the 
disease-free life expectancy and the life expectancy with metastatic melanoma.
RESULTS: YLL per patient were as follows: Australia, men = 19.9 years, 
women = 22.7 years; Brazil, 16.3, 19.8; Canada, 19.4, 22.3; France, 18.8, 23.1; 
Germany, 18.3, 20.8; Italy, 19.3, 22.7; Mexico, 17.2, 19.0; the Netherlands, 
18.5, 21.5; Spain, 19.2, 23.1; Sweden 19.4, 22.0; the UK, 18.7, 21.2; and the 
US, 17.9, 20.6.
CONCLUSIONS: The burden of metastatic melanoma as measured by YLL is substantial 
in all 12 countries; although there is variation across countries and between 
men and women.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2015.1115764
PMID: 26531249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. N Engl J Med. 2015 Nov 5;373(19):1793-7. doi: 10.1056/NEJMp1410676.

The Future of Japan's Health System--Sustaining Good Health with Equity at Low 
Cost.

Reich MR(1), Shibuya K.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard T.H. Chan School 
of Public Health, Boston (M.R.R.); and the Department of Global Health Policy, 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo (K.S.).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMp1410676
PMID: 26535509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2015;15(6):961-84. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.2015.1108191. Epub 2015 Nov 4.

A systematic review of Markov models evaluating multicomponent disease 
management programs in diabetes.

Kirsch F(1).

Author information:
(1)a Institute of Health Economics and Health Care Management and Munich Center 
of Health Sciences , Munich School of Management, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität 
, Ludwigstr. 28 RG, 80539 , Munich , Germany.

Diabetes is the most expensive chronic disease; therefore, disease management 
programs (DMPs) were introduced. The aim of this review is to determine whether 
Markov models are adequate to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of complex 
interventions such as DMPs. Additionally, the quality of the models was 
evaluated using Philips and Caro quality appraisals. The five reviewed models 
incorporated the DMP into the model differently: two models integrated 
effectiveness rates derived from one clinical trial/meta-analysis and three 
models combined interventions from different sources into a DMP. The results 
range from cost savings and a QALY gain to costs of US$85,087 per QALY. The 
Spearman's rank coefficient assesses no correlation between the quality 
appraisals. With restrictions to the data selection process, Markov models are 
adequate to determine the cost-effectiveness of DMPs; however, to allow 
prioritization of medical services, more flexibility in the models is necessary 
to enable the evaluation of single additional interventions.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.2015.1108191
PMID: 26535605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Genet Mol Res. 2015 Oct 27;14(4):13144-50. doi: 10.4238/2015.October.26.10.

Differentiation of four strains of Chinese soft-shelled turtle (Pelodiscus 
sinensis) based on high-resolution melting analysis of single nucleotide 
polymorphism sites in mitochondrial DNA.

Zhang HQ(1), Zhang C(2), Xu XJ(2), Zhu JJ(3), He ZY(2), Shao JZ(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(2)Zhejiang Fisheries Technical Extension Center, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(3)Huzhou University, Huzhou, Zhejiang, China.

The Chinese soft-shelled turtle (Pelodiscus sinensis) has been one of the most 
economically important aquatic animals in China for thousands of years, and 
several breeding strains have been formed. Since the morphological 
characteristics of some strains are similar, a rapid and accurate molecular 
method to differentiate between strains is required. In this study, partial 
sequences of mitochondrial DNA from four turtle strains, Taihu Lake Strain, 
Taiwan Strain, Japanese Strain, and Yellow River Strain, were amplified and 
sequenced based on selected strain-specific single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) 
sites. The corresponding primers were designed and a high-resolution melting 
(HRM) technique was employed for genotyping these SNPs. The results indicated 
that a total of seven SNPs can be detected by HRM. Among these SNPs, one can be 
used for identifying the Taihu Lake Strain, one for the Japanese Strain, two for 
the Taiwan Strain, and three for the Yellow River Strain. This method is rapid 
and convenient, which offers technical support for strain identification and 
selective breeding in Chinese soft-shelled turtles.

DOI: 10.4238/2015.October.26.10
PMID: 26535627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. J Med Econ. 2016;19(3):277-91. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2015.1116992. Epub 2015
Nov  30.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of oxycodone with naloxone versus oxycodone alone 
for the management of moderate-to-severe pain in patients with opioid-induced 
constipation in Canada.

Goeree R(1)(2), Goeree J(1).

Author information:
(1)a a Goeree Consulting Limited , Hamilton, Ontario , Canada.
(2)b bProfessor Emeritus , McMaster University , Hamilton, Ontario , Canada.

BACKGROUND: Approximately 20-30% of Canadians suffer from chronic pain. 
Guidelines for the management of chronic pain support the use of 
controlled-release (CR) opioids to treat chronic pain. Although effective in 
managing chronic pain, oxycodone is associated with high rates of opioid-induced 
constipation (OIC). The cost-effectiveness of a combination of oxycodone for the 
management of pain and naloxone for the relief of OIC has not previously been 
evaluated for Canada.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was developed to estimate the cost-utility of 
combination oxycodone/naloxone compared to oxycodone alone in four populations. 
Drug costs for managing pain and healthcare costs related to managing OIC were 
included in the analysis and the primary measure of effectiveness was quality 
adjusted life years (QALYs) derived from OIC rates observed in clinical trials. 
The analysis was conducted from a healthcare system perspective, used a 1-year 
time horizon, and results were expressed in 2015 Canadian dollars.
RESULTS: In all four patient populations, there was a trade-off between slightly 
higher total expected costs for Targin treated patients compared to oxycodone 
treated patients, but also improved clinical benefits in terms of reduced OIC, 
which resulted in higher QALYs for patients. Although analgesic costs were found 
to be slightly higher for Targin treated patients, Targin also resulted in cost 
offsets to the healthcare system in terms of less rescue laxative drug use and 
other resources required for the management of OIC. The resulting 1-year 
cost-utility of Targin compared to oxycodone ranged from $2178-$7732 per QALY 
gained in the base case analysis, and it was found that these cost-utility 
results remained robust and at low values throughout a series of one-way 
deterministic analyses of uncertainty.
CONCLUSION: The clinical effectiveness of oxycodone/naloxone in managing pain 
and OIC compared to CR oxycodone alone resulted in low cost-utility estimates.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2015.1116992
PMID: 26535790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. PLoS One. 2015 Nov 4;10(11):e0141953. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0141953. 
eCollection 2015.

Gender Differentials in Self-Rated Health and Self-Reported Disability among 
Adults in India.

Bora JK(1), Saikia N(2).

Author information:
(1)Public Health Foundation of India, Gurgaon, India.
(2)Centre for Study of Regional Development, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New 
Delhi, India.

BACKGROUND: The extant literature on gender differentials in health in developed 
countries suggests that women outlive men at all ages, but women report poorer 
health than men. It is well established that Indian women live longer than men, 
but few studies have been conducted to understand the gender dimension in 
self-rated health and self-reported disability. The present study investigates 
gender differentials in self-rated health (SRH) and self-reported disability 
(SRD) among adults in India, using a nationally representative data.
METHODS: Using data on 10,736 respondents aged 18 and older in the 2007 WHO 
Study on Global Ageing and Adult Health in India, prevalence estimates of SRH 
are calculated separately for men and women by socio-economic and demographic 
characteristics. The association of SRH with gender is tested using a 
multinomial logistic regression method. SRD is assessed using 20 activities of 
daily living (ADL). Further, gender differences in total life expectancy (TLE), 
disability life expectancy (DLE) and the proportion of life spent with a 
disability at various adult ages are measured.
RESULTS: The relative risk of reporting poor health by women was significantly 
higher than men (relative risk ratio: 1.660; 95% confidence Interval (CI): 
1.430-1.927) after adjusting for socio-economic and demographic characteristics. 
Women reported higher prevalence of severe and extreme disability than men in 14 
measures out of a total20 ADL measures. Women aged less than 60 years reported 
two times more than men in SRD ≥ 5 ADLs. Finally, both DLE and proportion of 
life spent with a disability were substantially higher for women irrespective of 
their ages.
CONCLUSION: Indian women live longer but report poorer health than men. A 
substantial gender differential is found in self-reported disability. This makes 
for an urgent call to health researchers and policy makers for gender-sensitive 
programs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0141953
PMCID: PMC4633186
PMID: 26536133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


274. Aust Health Rev. 2016 Sep;40(4):391-398. doi: 10.1071/AH15068.

Normalising advance care planning in a general medicine service of a tertiary 
hospital: an exploratory study.

Scott IA(1), Rajakaruna N(1), Shah D(1), Miller L(2), Reymond E(2), Daly M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology, Level 5A, Princess 
Alexandra Hospital, Ipswich Road, Brisbane, Qld 4102, Australia.
(2)Metro South Palliative Care Service, Metro South Hospital and Health Service, 
2 Clara Street, Corinda, Qld 4075, Australia. Email:.
(3)Metro South Clinical Governance Unit, Metro South Hospital and Health 
Service, Level 3, Building 15, Princess Alexandra Hospital, Ipswich Road, 
Brisbane, Qld 4102, Australia. Email.

Objective The aim of the present study was to develop, implement and explore the 
effects of a program in advance care planning (ACP) within a tertiary hospital 
general medicine service. Methods Before-after exploratory mixed-methods 
analysis was conducted of an ACP program comprising seven components designed to 
overcome well-documented barriers to ACP in clinical practice. The results of 
pre-ACP program audits performed in June 2014 were compared with those of 
post-ACP audits performed over 5 months from July to November 2014. The main 
outcome measure was the number of advance care plans completed in patients 
considered eligible for ACP based on a life expectancy of 12 months or less as 
assessed by two prognostication instruments. Questionnaire surveys ascertained 
staff perceptions of ACP and the usefulness of training and resources in ACP. 
Results Pre-ACP program analysis of 166 consecutive patients deemed eligible for 
ACP revealed that only 1% had a documented advance care plan. Following ACP 
implementation, 115 of 215 (53%) potentially eligible patients were considered 
able to participate in ACP discussions and were approached to do so before 
discharge, of whom 89 (77.4%) completed an advance care plan, whereas 26 (23.6%) 
declined. This equated to an overall completion rate for all potentially 
eligible patients of 41% compared to 1% pre-ACP (P<0.001). Major barriers to ACP 
perceived by at least 30% of questionnaire respondents included the reluctance 
of patients and family to discuss ACP, insufficient time to initiate or complete 
ACP, patient and/or family factors that rendered ACP impractical, inadequate 
communication skills around end-of-life issues, confusion about who was 
primarily responsible for conducting ACP and difficulty using ACP documentation 
forms. Enabling factors included dedicated ACP workshops, facilitator and 
resource packages for staff, and ACP brochures for patients and family. 
Conclusion A multifaceted ACP program in a general medicine service led to 
completion of an advance care plan in more than three of four patients 
considered eligible for, and who participated in, ACP. However, although program 
components were tailored to overcome known barriers to ACP, staff indicated 
ongoing difficulties, with less than half of ACP-eligible patients completing 
advance care plans. What is known about this topic? Advance care planning is 
increasingly recognised as an important part of hospital care for older patients 
with advanced chronic disease. However, research indicates that ACP discussions 
are rare in hospital settings because of various barriers that are not 
adequately addressed in the design of ACP programs. What does this paper add? 
The present exploratory study of the development, implementation and evaluation 
of an ACP program in a tertiary hospital general medicine service shows that 
program components designed to overcome specific barriers to ACP discussions was 
associated with a >75% completion rate of advance care plans among ACP-eligible 
patients who participated in ACP discussions. Dedicated staff training and 
resources in ACP, employment of an ACP facilitator and ready access to ACP 
documentation forms were important enabling strategies. What are the 
implications for practitioners? Hospital units caring for significant numbers of 
older patients with limited life expectancy can implement ACP programs that help 
normalise ACP discussions within routine clinical care.

DOI: 10.1071/AH15068
PMID: 26536163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. PLoS One. 2015 Nov 4;10(11):e0139876. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0139876. 
eCollection 2015.

Cost-Effectiveness and Cost Thresholds of Generic and Brand Drugs in a National 
Chronic Hepatitis B Treatment Program in China.

Toy M(1), Hutton DW(2), So SK(1).

Author information:
(1)Asian Liver Center, Department of Surgery, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, CA, 94305, United States of America.
(2)Department of Health Management and Policy, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, MI, 48109, United States of America.

Chronic liver disease and liver cancer associated with chronic hepatitis B (CHB) 
are leading causes of death among adults in China. Although newborn hepatitis B 
immunization has successfully reduced the prevalence of CHB in children, about 
100 million Chinese adults remain chronically infected. If left unmanaged, 
15-25% will die from liver cancer or liver cirrhosis. Antiviral treatment is not 
necessary for all patients with CHB, but when it is indicated, good response to 
treatment would prevent disease progression and reduce disease mortality and 
morbidity, and costly complications. The aim of this study is to analyze the 
cost-effectiveness of generic and brand antiviral drugs for CHB treatment in 
China, and assessing various thresholds at which a highly potent, low resistance 
antiviral drug would be cost-saving and/or cost-effective to introduce in a 
national treatment program. We developed a Markov simulation model of disease 
progression using effectiveness and cost data from the medical literature. We 
measured life-time costs, quality adjusted life years (QALYs), incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs), and clinical outcomes. The no treatment 
strategy incurred the highest health care costs ($12,932-$25,293) per patient, 
and the worst health outcomes, compared to the antiviral treatment strategies. 
Monotherapy with either entecavir or tenofovir yielded the most QALYs 
(14.10-19.02) for both HBeAg-positive and negative patients, with or without 
cirrhosis. Threshold analysis showed entercavir or tenofovir treatment would be 
cost saving if the drug price is $32-75 (195-460 RMB) per month, highly 
cost-effective at $62-110 (379-670 RMB) per month and cost-effective at $63-120 
(384-734 RMB) per month. This study can support policy decisions regarding the 
implementation of a national health program for chronic hepatitis B treatment in 
China at the population level.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0139876
PMCID: PMC4633043
PMID: 26536626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


276. Int J Health Serv. 2016;46(1):5-35. doi: 10.1177/0020731415611634. Epub 2015
Nov  3.

Why is There so Much Controversy Regarding the Population Health Impact of the 
Great Recession? Reflections on Three Case Studies.

Bacigalupe A(1), Shahidi FV(2), Muntaner C(3), Martín U(4), Borrell C(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology 2, University of the Basque Country (UPV/EHU), Leioa, 
Spain OPIK-Research Group on Social Determinants of Health and Demographic 
Change amaia.bacigalupe@ehu.eus.
(2)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(3)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada Bloomberg School of Nursing, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada Department of Public Health Sciences, Korea University.
(4)Department of Sociology 2, University of the Basque Country (UPV/EHU), Leioa, 
Spain OPIK-Research Group on Social Determinants of Health and Demographic 
Change.
(5)Agència de Salut Pública de Barcelona, Barcelona 08023, Spain Ciber de 
Epidemiología y Salud Pública, 28029, Spain Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona 
08003, Spain Institut de Recerca Biomèdica Sant Pau (IIB Sant Pau), Barcelona 
08025, Spain.

In the aftermath of the Great Recession, public health scholars have grown 
increasingly interested in studying the health consequences of macroeconomic 
change. Reflecting existing debates on the nature of this relationship, research 
on the effects of the recent economic crisis has sparked considerable 
controversy. On the one hand there is evidence to support the notion that 
macroeconomic downturns are associated with positive health outcomes. On the 
other hand, a growing number of studies warn that the current economic crisis 
can be expected to pose serious problems for the public's health. This article 
contributes to this debate through a review of recent evidence from three case 
studies: Iceland, Spain, and Greece. It shows that the economic crisis has 
negatively impacted some population health indicators (e.g., mental health) in 
all three countries, but especially in Greece. Available evidence defies 
deterministic conclusions, including increasingly "conventional" claims about 
economic downturns improving life expectancy and reducing mortality. While our 
results echo previous research in finding that the relationship between economic 
crises and population health is complex, they also indicate that this complexity 
is not arbitrary. On the contrary, changing social and political contexts 
provide meaningful, if partial, explanations for the perplexing nature of recent 
empirical findings.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/0020731415611634
PMID: 26536911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2016 Mar;18(3):306-9. doi: 10.1111/dom.12604. Epub 2016
Jan  5.

Patient-reported outcomes among patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus treated 
with dapagliflozin in a triple-therapy regimen for 52 weeks.

Grandy S(1), Sternhufvud C(2), Ryden A(2), Sugg J(1), Rohwedder K(3).

Author information:
(1)AstraZeneca LP, Wilmington, DE, USA.
(2)AstraZeneca R&D, Molndal, Sweden.
(3)AstraZeneca, Wedel, Germany.

Patients with type 2 diabetes (T2DM) and inadequate glycaemic control on 
combination metformin (MET) and sulphonylurea (SU) were enrolled in a 24-week, 
double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study with a 28-week extension. The 
five-dimension EuroQol questionnaire (EQ-5D), SHIELD Weight Questionnaire-9 
(WQ-9), Impact of Weight on Quality of Life-Lite (IWQOL-Lite) questionnaire and 
the Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (DTSQ) were used to evaluate 
health status and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) at baseline and week 
52. Patients with dapagliflozin 10 mg + MET + SU (n = 108) were compared with 
patients treated with placebo + MET + SU (n = 108), using a repeated-measures 
mixed model. EQ-5D visual analogue scale scores, IWQOL-Lite and DTSQ scores 
improved in the dapagliflozin and placebo groups from baseline to week 52; 
however, there was no significant difference between groups (p > 0.20). EQ-5D 
index scores remained the same from baseline to week 52 for dapagliflozin and 
placebo (p = 0.54). A numerically greater proportion of the dapagliflozin group 
reported improvement in all nine SHIELD WQ-9 items compared with placebo, and 
the difference was statistically significant for physical health (p = 0.017). 
Over 52 weeks of therapy, patients maintained their health status and HRQoL when 
dapagliflozin was added to the treatment.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/dom.12604
PMID: 26537439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. J Hand Surg Am. 2015 Dec;40(12):2489-500. doi: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2015.06.003.

Tetraplegia Management Update.

Fridén J(1), Gohritz A(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Advanced Reconstruction of Extremities (C.A.R.E.) and Department 
of Hand Surgery, Institute of Clinical Sciences, Sahlgrenska University 
Hospital, Göteborg, Sweden; Swiss Paraplegic Centre, Nottwil, Switzerland. 
Electronic address: jan.friden@orthop.gu.se.
(2)Swiss Paraplegic Centre, Nottwil, Switzerland; Department of Plastic, 
Reconstructive and Aesthetic Surgery, Hand Surgery, University Hospital, Basel, 
Switzerland.

Tetraplegia is a profound impairment of mobility manifesting as a paralysis of 
all 4 extremities owing to cervical spinal cord injury. The purpose of this 
article is to provide an update and analyze current management, treatment 
options, and outcomes of surgical reconstruction of arm and hand function. 
Surgical restoration of elbow and wrist extension or handgrip has tremendous 
potential to improve autonomy, mobility, and critical abilities, for example, 
eating, personal care, and self-catheterization and productive work in at least 
70% of tetraplegic patients. Tendon and nerve transfers, tenodeses, and joint 
stabilizations reliably enable improved arm and hand usability, reduce muscle 
imbalance and pain in spasticity, and prevent joint contractures. One-stage 
combined procedures have proven considerable advantages over traditional 
multistage approaches. Immediate activation of transferred muscles reduces the 
risk of adhesions, facilitates relearning, avoids adverse effects of 
immobilization, and enhances functional recovery. Transfer of axillary, 
musculocutaneous, and radial nerve fascicles from above the spinal cord injury 
are effective and promising options to enhance motor outcome and sensory 
protection, especially in groups with limited resources. Improved communication 
between medical disciplines, therapists, patients, and their relatives should 
help that more individuals can benefit from these advances and could empower 
many thousands tetraplegic individuals "to take life into their own hands" and 
live more independently.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Surgery of the Hand. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2015.06.003
PMID: 26537454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. J Biosoc Sci. 2016 Aug;48(4):457-71. doi: 10.1017/S0021932015000383. Epub
2015  Nov 5.

MEASURING EARLY LIFE DISPARITY IN INDIA.

Singh A(1), Ladusingh L(1).

Author information:
(1)International Institute for Population Sciences,Mumbai,India.

Early life disparity - defined as the average life years lost due to death by 
the age of 60 years - can be used to assess more systematically the effect of 
savings from death at a young age. In addition, it can give valuable insight 
into the consequences of death in the early stages of life. Early life disparity 
can further be categorized into child life disparity (0-14 years) and adult life 
disparity (15-60 years). This study estimated early life disparity using 
complete life tables for the period 1970-1975 to 2006-2010, which were 
constructed from abridged life tables and death rates provided by the Sample 
Registration System (SRS) in India. The contribution of premature deaths to the 
difference in life disparity was estimated using a replacement algorithm. The 
findings clearly indicated an overall declining trend in early life disparity in 
India, with a notable reduction in child life disparity, and a deceleration of 
adult life disparity during the period 1970-1975 to 2006-2010. Interstate 
variations in early life disparity were seen to converge with time. 
Decomposition analysis suggested that these variations could be minimized 
further by averting death during childhood.

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932015000383
PMID: 26537823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. J Korean Med Sci. 2015 Nov;30(11):1567-76. doi:
10.3346/jkms.2015.30.11.1567.  Epub 2015 Oct 16.

Correlation between Drug Market Withdrawals and Socioeconomic, Health, and 
Welfare Indicators Worldwide.

Lee KH(1), Kim GJ(1), Kim JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Seoul National University Biomedical Informatics (SNUBI) and Systems 
Biomedical Informatics Research Center, Division of Biomedical Informatics, 
Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

The relationship between the number of withdrawn/restricted drugs and 
socioeconomic, health, and welfare indicators were investigated in a 
comprehensive review of drug regulation information in the United Nations (UN) 
countries. A total of of 362 drugs were withdrawn and 248 were restricted during 
1950-2010, corresponding to rates of 12.02 ± 13.07 and 5.77 ± 8.69 (mean ± SD), 
respectively, among 94 UN countries. A socioeconomic, health, and welfare 
analysis was performed for 33 OECD countries for which data were available 
regarding withdrawn/restricted drugs. The gross domestic product (GDP) per 
capita, GDP per hour worked, health expenditure per GDP, and elderly population 
rate were positively correlated with the numbers of withdrawn and restricted 
drugs (P < 0.05), while the out-of-pocket health expenditure payment rate was 
negatively correlated. The number of restricted drugs was also correlated with 
the rate of drug-related deaths (P < 0.05). The World Bank data cross-validated 
the findings of 33 OECD countries. The lists of withdrawn/restricted drugs 
showed markedly poor international agreement between them (Fleiss's kappa = 
-0.114). Twenty-seven drugs that had been withdrawn internationally by 
manufacturers are still available in some countries. The wide variation in the 
numbers of drug withdrawals and restrictions among countries indicates the need 
to improve drug surveillance systems and regulatory communication networks.

DOI: 10.3346/jkms.2015.30.11.1567
PMCID: PMC4630471
PMID: 26538999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURE: The authors have no conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


281. Mycobiology. 2015 Sep;43(3):347-50. doi: 10.5941/MYCO.2015.43.3.347. Epub
2015  Sep 30.

Sooty Mould Disease Caused by Leptoxyphium kurandae on Kenaf.

Choi IY(1), Kang CH(1), Lee GH(2), Park JH(3), Shin HD(1).

Author information:
(1)Jeollabuk-do Agricultural Research and Extension Services, Iksan 54591, 
Korea.
(2)National Institute of Crop Science, Rural Development Administration, Wanju 
55365, Korea.
(3)Division of Environmental Science and Ecological Engineering, College of Life 
Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea University, Seoul 02841, Korea.

In September 2013, we discovered sooty mould growing on kenaf with the 
extrafloral nectaries in Iksan, Korea and identified the causative fungus as 
Leptoxyphium kurandae based on morphological characteristics and phylogenetic 
analyses. This is the first report of sooty mould caused by L. kurandae on kenaf 
in Korea and globally.

DOI: 10.5941/MYCO.2015.43.3.347
PMCID: PMC4630444
PMID: 26539054


282. J Occup Environ Med. 2015 Nov;57(11):1170-7. doi:
10.1097/JOM.0000000000000566.

Economic Evaluation of a New Organizational RTW Intervention to Improve 
Cooperation Between Sick-Listed Employees and Their Supervisors: A Field Study.

Noben C(1), Hoefsmit N, Evers S, de Rijk A, Houkes I, Nijhuis F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research (Dr Noben, Dr Evers); Department of 
Social Medicine (Dr Hoefsmit, Dr de Rijk, Dr Houkes), Caphri School for Public 
Health and Primary Care, Maastricht University; Trimbos Institute (Dr Evers), 
Netherlands Institute of Mental Health and Addiction, Utrecht; and Department of 
Work and Social Psychology (Dr Nijhuis), Maastricht University, the Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study is to assess the cost-effectiveness, 
-utility, and -benefit of a new organizational return-to-work intervention to 
improve COoperation between Sick-listed employees and their Supervisors (COSS).
METHODS: A field study with 6 months follow-up comparing COSS with common 
practice randomized participants aged 18 to 60, working at least 12  hours/week 
and absent for at least 2 weeks. Outcomes were initial return-to-work, 
quality-adjusted life years, and productivity gains.
RESULTS: After 6 months, COSS generated less costs when compared with common 
practice. Participants in the COSS group returned to work earlier, improvement 
in quality-adjusted life years were uncertain. Net benefits of COSS versus 
common practice yielded a productivity gain of €395.89.
CONCLUSIONS: Implementing COSS for sick-listed employees has potentials to 
reduce costs and improve productivity, and potentially quality of life. 
Longitudinal research might detect whether COSS also has the potential reaching 
sustainable return-to-work.

DOI: 10.1097/JOM.0000000000000566
PMID: 26539764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Sci Rep. 2015 Nov 5;5:16259. doi: 10.1038/srep16259.

Genotype-dependent lifespan effects in peptone deprived Caenorhabditis elegans.

Stastna JJ(1), Snoek LB(2), Kammenga JE(2), Harvey SC(1).

Author information:
(1)Biomolecular Research Group, Canterbury Christ Church University, Canterbury, 
CT1 1QU, UK.
(2)Laboratory of Nematology, Wageningen University, 6708 PB Wageningen, The 
Netherlands.

Dietary restriction appears to act as a general non-genetic mechanism that can 
robustly prolong lifespan. There have however been reports in many systems of 
cases where restricted food intake either shortens, or does not affect, 
lifespan. Here we analyze lifespan and the effect of food restriction via 
deprived peptone levels on lifespan in wild isolates and introgression lines 
(ILs) of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. These analyses identify genetic 
variation in lifespan, in the effect of this variation in diet on lifespan and 
also in the likelihood of maternal, matricidal, hatching. Importantly, in the 
wild isolates and the ILs, we identify genotypes in which peptone deprivation 
mediated dietary restriction reduces lifespan. We also identify, in recombinant 
inbred lines, a locus that affects maternal hatching, a phenotype closely linked 
to dietary restriction in C. elegans. These results indicate that peptone 
deprivation mediated dietary restriction affects lifespan in C. elegans in a 
genotype-dependent manner, reducing lifespan in some genotypes. This may operate 
by a mechanism similar to dietary restriction.

DOI: 10.1038/srep16259
PMCID: PMC4634109
PMID: 26539794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. PLoS Pathog. 2015 Nov 5;11(11):e1005233. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1005233. 
eCollection 2015.

Targeting HIV Reservoir in Infected CD4 T Cells by Dual-Affinity Re-targeting 
Molecules (DARTs) that Bind HIV Envelope and Recruit Cytotoxic T Cells.

Sloan DD(1), Lam CY(2), Irrinki A(1), Liu L(2), Tsai A(1), Pace CS(1), Kaur 
J(1), Murry JP(1), Balakrishnan M(1), Moore PA(2), Johnson S(2), Nordstrom 
JL(2), Cihlar T(1), Koenig S(2).

Author information:
(1)Gilead Sciences, Foster City, California, United States of America.
(2)MacroGenics, Inc., Rockville, Maryland, United States of America.

HIV reservoirs and production of viral antigens are not eliminated in 
chronically infected participants treated with combination antiretroviral 
therapy (cART). Novel therapeutic strategies aiming at viral reservoir 
elimination are needed to address chronic immune dysfunction and non-AIDS 
morbidities that exist despite effective cART. The HIV envelope protein (Env) is 
emerging as a highly specific viral target for therapeutic elimination of the 
persistent HIV-infected reservoirs via antibody-mediated cell killing. 
Dual-Affinity Re-Targeting (DART) molecules exhibit a distinct mechanism of 
action via binding the cell surface target antigen and simultaneously engaging 
CD3 on cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs). We designed and evaluated Env-specific 
DARTs (HIVxCD3 DARTs) derived from known antibodies recognizing diverse Env 
epitopes with or without broadly neutralizing activity. HIVxCD3 DARTs derived 
from PGT121, PGT145, A32, and 7B2, but not VRC01 or 10E8 antibodies, mediated 
potent CTL-dependent killing of quiescent primary CD4 T cells infected with 
diverse HIV isolates. Similar killing activity was also observed with DARTs 
structurally modified for in vivo half-life extension. In an ex vivo model using 
cells isolated from HIV-infected participants on cART, combinations of the most 
potent HIVxCD3 DARTs reduced HIV expression both in quiescent and activated 
peripheral blood mononuclear cell cultures isolated from HIV-infected 
participants on suppressive cART. Importantly, HIVxCD3 DARTs did not induce 
cell-to-cell virus spread in resting or activated CD4 T cell cultures. 
Collectively, these results provide support for further development of HIVxCD3 
DARTs as a promising therapeutic strategy for targeting HIV reservoirs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1005233
PMCID: PMC4634948
PMID: 26539983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DDS, AI, AT, CSP, JK, JPM, MB, and TC are 
employed by, and own stock and/or shares in Gilead Sciences, Inc. CYKL, LL, PAM, 
SJ, JLN, and SK are employed by, and own stock and/or shares in MacroGenics, 
Inc., which has filed patent applications related to these molecules. SK is a 
member of the Board of Directors at MacroGenics, Inc. This does not alter our 
adherence to all PLOS policies on sharing data and materials.


285. Crit Care Med. 2016 Feb;44(2):265-74. doi: 10.1097/CCM.0000000000001426.

Economic Evaluation of Telemedicine for Patients in ICUs.

Yoo BK(1), Kim M, Sasaki T, Melnikow J, Marcin JP.

Author information:
(1)1Department of Public Health Sciences, University of California, Davis, 
Davis, CA. 2Independent Consultant, Rochester, NY. 3Department of Family and 
Community Medicine, Center for Healthcare Policy and Research, University of 
California, Davis, Sacramento, CA. 4Department of Pediatrics, Center for 
Healthcare Policy and Research, Center for Health and Technology, University of 
California, Davis, Sacramento, CA.

Comment in
    Crit Care Med. 2016 Feb;44(2):441-2.

OBJECTIVE: Despite telemedicine's potential to improve patients' health outcomes 
and reduce costs in the ICU, hospitals have been slow to introduce telemedicine 
in the ICU due to high up-front costs and mixed evidence on effectiveness. This 
study's first aim was to conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis to estimate the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of telemedicine in the ICU, compared with 
ICU without telemedicine, from the healthcare system perspective. The second aim 
was to examine potential cost saving of telemedicine in the ICU through 
probabilistic analyses and break-even analyses.
DESIGN: Simulation analyses performed by standard decision models.
SETTING: Hypothetical ICU defined by the U.S. literature.
PATIENTS: Hypothetical adult patients in ICU defined by the U.S. literature.
INTERVENTIONS: The intervention was the introduction of telemedicine in the ICU, 
which was assumed to affect per-patient per-hospital-stay ICU cost and hospital 
mortality. Telemedicine in the ICU operation costs included the telemedicine 
equipment-installation (start-up) costs with 5-year depreciation, maintenance 
