Se (males 54·0 % and females 57·1 %) and for Fe amongst females (29·6 %), is 
cause for concern regarding potentially severe deficiencies. Further exploration 
of dietary habits within first-episode psychosis is warranted to assess whether 
individuals make beneficial dietary changes for their physical and mental health 
and wellbeing following dietary change intervention. It would also be pertinent 
to assess any correlation between diet and mental health symptomology.

DOI: 10.1017/jns.2015.18
PMCID: PMC4611081
PMID: 26495120


157. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 2015;(3):348-54. doi: 10.15690/vramn.v70i3.1332.

[Demographic Ageing in Russia at the Present Stage].

[Article in Russian]

Grinin VM, Shestemirova EI.

In the article data ofthe article describes thefindings of modern demographic 
indicators in Russia andforeign countriesfor the period 2010-2013. As a result 
of monitoring was defined Russia's status by demographics such as: proportion of 
population aged 60 years and older; total (men and women) life expectancy at 
birth; the rate of natural increase of population; mortality; fertility rate; 
the coefficient of migration growth and the dependency ratio. This article was 
presented analogy age-sex structure disclosed negative and positive aspects of 
the ageing of the population in Russia and foreign countries.

DOI: 10.15690/vramn.v70i3.1332
PMID: 26495724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. J Neurosurg. 2016 Jun;124(6):1627-33. doi: 10.3171/2015.5.JNS1576. Epub 2015
Oct  23.

Quantitative evaluation of headache severity before and after endoscopic 
transsphenoidal surgery for pituitary adenoma.

Wolf A(1), Goncalves S(1), Salehi F(2), Bird J(2), Cooper P(3), Van Uum S(4), 
Lee DH(2), Rotenberg BW(5), Duggal N(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery.
(2)Department of Medical Imaging, and.
(3)Division of Neurology, London Health Sciences Centre, London; and.
(4)Division of Endocrinology & Metabolism and.
(5)Department of Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery, St. Joseph's Hospital, 
London, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECT The relationship between headaches, pituitary adenomas, and surgical 
treatment of pituitary adenomas remains unclear. The authors assessed the 
severity and predictors of self-reported headaches in patients referred for 
surgery of pituitary adenomas and evaluated the impact of endoscopic 
transsphenoidal surgery on headache severity and quality of life (QOL). METHODS 
In this prospective study, 79 patients with pituitary adenomas underwent 
endoscopic transsphenoidal resection and completed the Headache Impact Test 
(HIT-6) and the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36) QOL questionnaire 
preoperatively and at 6 weeks and 6 months postoperatively. RESULTS 
Preoperatively, 49.4% of patients had mild headache severity, 13.9% had moderate 
severity, 13.9% had substantial severity, and 22.8% had intense severity. 
Younger age and hormone-producing tumors predisposed greater headache severity, 
while tumor volume, suprasellar extension, chiasmal compression, and cavernous 
sinus invasion of the pituitary tumors did not. Preoperative headache severity 
was found to be significantly associated with reduced scores across all SF-36 
QOL dimensions and most significantly associated with mental health. By 6 months 
postoperatively, headache severity was reduced in a significant proportion of 
patients. Of the 40 patients with headaches causing an impact on daily living 
(moderate, substantial, or intense headache), 70% had improvement of at least 1 
category on HIT-6 by 6 months postoperatively, while headache worsened in 7.6% 
of patients. The best predictors of headache response to surgery included 
younger age, poor preoperative SF-36 mental health score, and hormone-producing 
microadenoma. CONCLUSIONS The results of this study confirm that surgery can 
significantly improve headaches in patients with pituitary adenomas by 6 months 
postoperatively, particularly in younger patients whose preoperative QOL is 
impacted. A larger multicenter study is underway to evaluate the long-term 
effect of surgery on headaches in this patient group.

DOI: 10.3171/2015.5.JNS1576
PMID: 26495954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. PLoS One. 2015 Oct 23;10(10):e0141200. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0141200. 
eCollection 2015.

Gains in Life Expectancy Associated with Higher Education in Men.

Bijwaard GE(1), van Poppel F(1), Ekamper P(1), Lumey LH(2).

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Interdisciplinary Demographic Institute (NIDI-KNAW)/University of 
Groningen, the Hague, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia 
University, New York, United States of America; Molecular Epidemiology, Leiden 
University Medical Center, Leiden, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Many studies show large differences in life expectancy across the 
range of education, intelligence, and socio-economic status. As educational 
attainment, intelligence, and socio-economic status are highly interrelated, 
appropriate methods are required to disentangle their separate effects. The aim 
of this paper is to present a novel method to estimate gains in life expectancy 
specifically associated with increased education. Our analysis is based on a 
structural model in which education level, IQ at age 18 and mortality all depend 
on (latent) intelligence. The model allows for (selective) educational choices 
based on observed factors and on an unobserved factor capturing intelligence. 
Our estimates are based on information from health examinations of military 
conscripts born in 1944-1947 in The Netherlands and their vital status through 
age 66 (n = 39,798).
RESULTS: Our empirical results show that men with higher education have lower 
mortality. Using structural models to account for education choice, the 
estimated gain in life expectancy for men moving up one educational level ranges 
from 0.3 to 2 years. The estimated gain in months alive over the observational 
period ranges from -1.2 to 5.7 months. The selection effect is positive and 
amounts to a gain of one to two months. Decomposition of the selection effect 
shows that the gain from selection on (latent) intelligence is larger than the 
gain from selection on observed factors and amounts to 1.0 to 1.7 additional 
months alive.
CONCLUSION: Our findings confirm the strong selection into education based on 
socio-economic status and intelligence. They also show significant higher life 
expectancy among individuals with higher education after the selectivity of 
education choice has been taken into account. Based on these estimates, it is 
plausible therefore that increases in education could lead to increases in life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0141200
PMCID: PMC4619701
PMID: 26496647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


160. Pharmacoeconomics. 2016 Jan;34(1):5-11. doi: 10.1007/s40273-015-0336-1.

The Irish Cost-Effectiveness Threshold: Does it Support Rational Rationing or 
Might it Lead to Unintended Harm to Ireland's Health System?

O'Mahony JF, Coughlan D.

Ireland is one of the few countries worldwide to have an explicit 
cost-effectiveness threshold. In 2012, an agreement between government and the 
pharmaceutical industry that provided substantial savings on existing 
medications set the threshold at €45,000/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). This 
replaced a previously unofficial threshold of €20,000/QALY. According to the 
agreement, drugs within the threshold will be granted reimbursement, whereas 
those exceeding it may still be approved following further negotiation. A number 
of drugs far exceeding the threshold have been approved recently. The agreement 
only applies to pharmaceuticals. There are four reasons for concern regarding 
Ireland's threshold. The absence of an explicit threshold for non-drug 
interventions leaves it unclear if there is parity in willingness to pay across 
all interventions. As the threshold resembles a price floor rather than a 
ceiling, in principle it only offers a weak barrier to cost-ineffective 
interventions. It has no empirical basis. Finally, it is probably too high given 
recent estimates of a threshold for the UK based on the cost effectiveness of 
services forgone of approximately £13,000/QALY. An excessive threshold risks 
causing the Irish health system unintended harm. The lack of an empirically 
informed threshold means the policy recommendations of cost-effectiveness 
analysis cannot be considered as fully evidence- based rational rationing. 
Policy makers should consider these issues and recent Irish legislation that 
defined cost effectiveness in terms of the opportunity cost of services forgone 
when choosing what threshold to apply once the current industry agreement 
expires at the end of 2015

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-015-0336-1
PMID: 26497002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Eur J Health Econ. 2016 Nov;17(8):939-950. doi: 10.1007/s10198-015-0734-5.
Epub  2015 Oct 23.

Multiple imputation strategies for zero-inflated cost data in economic 
evaluations: which method works best?

MacNeil Vroomen J(1), Eekhout I(2), Dijkgraaf MG(2), van Hout H(2), de Rooij 
SE(2), Heymans MW(2), Bosmans JE(2).

Author information:
(1)Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
j.l.macneil-vroomen@amc.uva.nl.
(2)Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Cost and effect data often have missing data because economic evaluations are 
frequently added onto clinical studies where cost data are rarely the primary 
outcome. The objective of this article was to investigate which multiple 
imputation strategy is most appropriate to use for missing cost-effectiveness 
data in a randomized controlled trial. Three incomplete data sets were generated 
from a complete reference data set with 17, 35 and 50 % missing data in effects 
and costs. The strategies evaluated included complete case analysis (CCA), 
multiple imputation with predictive mean matching (MI-PMM), MI-PMM on 
log-transformed costs (log MI-PMM), and a two-step MI. Mean cost and effect 
estimates, standard errors and incremental net benefits were compared with the 
results of the analyses on the complete reference data set. The CCA, MI-PMM, and 
the two-step MI strategy diverged from the results for the reference data set 
when the amount of missing data increased. In contrast, the estimates of the Log 
MI-PMM strategy remained stable irrespective of the amount of missing data. MI 
provided better estimates than CCA in all scenarios. With low amounts of missing 
data the MI strategies appeared equivalent but we recommend using the log MI-PMM 
with missing data greater than 35 %.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-015-0734-5
PMCID: PMC5047955
PMID: 26497027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2015 Dec;47(2):766-76. doi:
10.1016/j.fsi.2015.10.025.  Epub 2015 Oct 20.

Antimicrobial activity of a novel hypervariable immunoglobulin domain-containing 
receptor Dscam in Cherax quadricarinatus.

Li D(1), Yu AQ(2), Li XJ(1), Zhu YT(1), Jin XK(1), Li WW(3), Wang Q(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Invertebrate Immunological Defense & Reproductive Biology, 
School of Life Science, East China Normal University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Shanghai Fisheries Technical Extension Station, Shanghai Fisheries Research 
Institute, Shanghai, China.
(3)Laboratory of Invertebrate Immunological Defense & Reproductive Biology, 
School of Life Science, East China Normal University, Shanghai, China. 
Electronic address: liweiwei85@gmail.com.
(4)Laboratory of Invertebrate Immunological Defense & Reproductive Biology, 
School of Life Science, East China Normal University, Shanghai, China. 
Electronic address: qwang@bio.ecnu.edu.cn.

Down syndrome cell adhesion molecule (Dscam) mediates innate immunity against 
pathogens in arthropods. Here, a novel Dscam from red claw crayfish Cherax 
quadricarinatus (CqDscam) was isolated. The CqDscam protein contains one signal 
peptide, ten immunoglobulin domains, six fibronectin type III domains, one 
transmembrane domain and cytoplasmic tail. CqDscam phylogenetically clustered 
with other invertebrate Dscams. Variable regions of CqDscam in N-terminal halves 
of Ig2 and Ig3 domains, complete Ig7 domain and TM domain can be reshuffled 
after transcription to produce a deluge of >37,620 potential alternative splice 
forms. CqDscam was detected in all tissues tested and abundantly expressed in 
immune system and nerve system. Upon lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and b-1, 
3-glucans (Glu) challenged, the expression of CqDscam was up-regulated, while no 
response in expression occurred after injection with peptidoglycans (PG). 
Membrane-bound and secreted types of CqDscam were separated on the protein 
level, and were both extensively induced post LPS challenge. Membrane-bound 
CqDscam protein was not detected in the serum, but localized to the hemocyte 
surface by immuno-localization assay. In the antimicrobial assays, the 
recombinant LPS-induced isoform of CqDscam protein displayed bacterial binding 
and growth inhibitory activities, especially with Escherichia coli. These 
results suggested that CqDscam, as one of pattern-recognition receptors (PRRs), 
involved in innate immune recognition and defense mechanisms in 
C. quadricarinatus, possibly through alternative splicing.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2015.10.025
PMID: 26497093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2015 Oct 23;82(1):318-27. doi: 10.1128/AEM.02673-15.
 Print 2016 Jan 1.

Maturation of Fibrinolytic Bacillopeptidase F Involves both Hetero- and 
Autocatalytic Processes.

Meng D(1), Dai M(2), Xu BL(2), Zhao ZS(2), Liang X(2), Wang M(2), Tang XF(3), 
Tang B(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Virology, College of Life Sciences, Wuhan University, 
Wuhan, China College of Life Science and Technology, Xinjiang University, 
Urumuqi, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Virology, College of Life Sciences, Wuhan University, 
Wuhan, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Virology, College of Life Sciences, Wuhan University, 
Wuhan, China Hubei Provincial Cooperative Innovation Center of Industrial 
Fermentation, Wuhan, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Virology, College of Life Sciences, Wuhan University, 
Wuhan, China Hubei Provincial Cooperative Innovation Center of Industrial 
Fermentation, Wuhan, China tangb@whu.edu.cn.

Bacillopeptidase F (Bpr) is a fibrinolytic serine protease produced by Bacillus 
subtilis. Its precursor is composed of a signal peptide, an N-terminal 
propeptide, a catalytic domain, and a long C-terminal extension (CTE). Several 
active forms of Bpr have been previously reported, but little is known about the 
maturation of this enzyme. Here, a gene encoding a Bpr (BprL) was cloned from B. 
subtilis LZW and expressed in B. subtilis WB700, and three fibrinolytic mature 
forms with apparent molecular masses of 45, 75, and 85 kDa were identified in 
the culture supernatant. After treatment with urea, the 75-kDa mature form had 
the same molecular mass as the 85-kDa mature form, from which we infer that they 
adopt different conformations. Mutational analysis revealed that while the 
85-kDa mature form is generated via heterocatalytic processing of a BprL proform 
by an unidentified protease of B. subtilis, the production of the 75- and 45-kDa 
mature forms involves both hetero- and autocatalytic events. From in vitro 
analysis of BprL and its sequential C-terminal truncation variants, it appears 
that partial removal of the CTE is required for the initiation of autoprocessing 
of the N-terminal propeptide, which is composed of a core domain (N*) and a 
15-residue linker peptide, thereby yielding the 45-kDa mature form. These data 
suggest that the differential processing of BprL, either heterocatalytically or 
autocatalytically, leads to the formation of multiple mature forms with 
different molecular masses or conformations.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.02673-15
PMCID: PMC4702618
PMID: 26497454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. World J Urol. 2016 Jan;34(1):3-11. doi: 10.1007/s00345-015-1708-z. Epub 2015
Oct  23.

Treatment of muscle invasive bladder cancer in the elderly: navigating the 
trade-offs of risk and benefit.

VanderWalde NA(1)(2), Chi MT(3), Hurria A(4), Galsky MD(5), Nielsen ME(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Tennessee Health Science 
Center, 1265 Union Ave. Thomas Basement, Memphis, TN, 38104, USA. 
nvanderw@westclinic.com.
(2)University of Tennessee West Cancer Center, 100 N. Humphrey's Blvd., Memphis, 
TN, 38120, USA. nvanderw@westclinic.com.
(3)University of Tennessee West Cancer Center, 100 N. Humphrey's Blvd., Memphis, 
TN, 38120, USA.
(4)Cancer and Aging Program, Division of Medical Oncology and Therapeutics 
Research, City of Hope Comprehensive Cancer Center, 1500 E. Duarte RD, Duarte, 
CA, 91010, USA.
(5)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai School 
of Medicine, 1470 Madison Ave, 3rd Floor, New York, NY, 10029, USA.
(6)Division of Urologic Oncology, Department of Urology, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, 2105 Physicians Office Building, Chapel Hill, NC, 
27599, USA.

PURPOSE: Despite the fact that bladder cancer patients have the highest median 
age of any type of cancer, older patients with muscle invasion are often 
under-treated.
METHODS: In this review, we report the most up to date literature on the 
patterns of care and treatment of older patients with muscle invasive bladder 
cancer. Data on under-treatment, geriatric principles, cystectomy, perioperative 
chemotherapy, and bladder preservation for older patients are presented and 
analyzed.
CONCLUSION: Chronologic age should not exclude patients from curative-intent 
therapy. Functional age as determined by geriatric assessments and 
multidisciplinary evaluation can help clinicians decide on the best course of 
treatment for individual patients. Cystectomy, perioperative chemotherapy, and 
curative-intent bladder preservation are reasonable options in healthy older 
adults. Observation should be limited to patients with extremely poor 
performance status and very limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00345-015-1708-z
PMID: 26497825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Dis Mon. 2015 Nov;61(11):467-74. doi: 10.1016/j.disamonth.2015.09.006. Epub
2015  Oct 20.

Clinical implications of aging.

King M, Lipsky MS.

Figure summarizes the major changes of aging and some key ways these changes 
affect pages. Though many changes occur with aging, under normal or resting 
conditions, there is usually very little functionally that is diminished solely 
on the basis of aging. The net effects are reductions in reserve capacity and 
placing geriatric patients at higher risk for adverse consequences related to 
medications and diseases. Interactions between lifestyle factors, such as 
exercise, diet, and environmental exposures, have a large impact on aging and 
lead to great individual variability. The interplay between these environmental 
factors, aging, and development of chronic diseases multiply the amount of 
variation seen as individual's age.

DOI: 10.1016/j.disamonth.2015.09.006
PMID: 26497929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. J Control Release. 2016 Oct 28;240:52-66. doi:
10.1016/j.jconrel.2015.10.038.  Epub 2015 Oct 30.

Extension of in vivo half-life of biologically active molecules by XTEN protein 
polymers.

Podust VN(1), Balan S(2), Sim BC(2), Coyle MP(2), Ernst U(2), Peters RT(3), 
Schellenberger V(2).

Author information:
(1)Amunix, 500 Ellis Street, Mountain View, CA 94043, USA. Electronic address: 
vpodust@amunix.com.
(2)Amunix, 500 Ellis Street, Mountain View, CA 94043, USA.
(3)Biogen, 115 Broadway, Cambridge, MA 02142, USA.

XTEN™ is a class of unstructured hydrophilic, biodegradable protein polymers 
designed to increase the half-lives of therapeutic peptides and proteins. XTEN 
polymers and XTEN fusion proteins are typically expressed in Escherichia coli 
and purified by conventional protein chromatography as monodisperse polypeptides 
of exact length and sequence. Unstructured XTEN polypeptides have hydrodynamic 
volumes significantly larger than typical globular proteins of similar mass, 
thus imparting a bulking effect to the therapeutic payloads attached to them. 
Since their invention, XTEN polypeptides have been utilized to extend the 
half-lives of a variety of peptide- and protein-based therapeutics. Multiple 
clinical and preclinical studies and related drug discovery and development 
efforts are in progress. This review details the most current understanding of 
physicochemical properties and biological behavior of XTEN and XTENylated 
molecules. Additionally, the development path and status of several advanced 
drug discovery and development efforts are highlighted.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2015.10.038
PMID: 26497931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Soc Sci Med. 2015 Dec;146:41-52. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2015.10.005. Epub
2015  Oct 9.

Attributes and weights in health care priority setting: A systematic review of 
what counts and to what extent.

Gu Y(1), Lancsar E(2), Ghijben P(2), Butler JR(3), Donaldson C(4).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Monash Business School, Monash University, Level 
2, Building 75, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia. Electronic address: 
yuanyuan.gu@monash.edu.
(2)Centre for Health Economics, Monash Business School, Monash University, Level 
2, Building 75, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia.
(3)Australian Centre for Economic Research on Health (ACERH), Australian 
National University, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia.
(4)Yunus Centre for Social Business and Health, Glasgow Caledonian University, 
Cowcaddens Road, Glasgow, G4 0BA, United Kingdom.

In most societies resources are insufficient to provide everyone with all the 
health care they want. In practice, this means that some people are given 
priority over others. On what basis should priority be given? In this paper we 
are interested in the general public's views on this question. We set out to 
synthesis what the literature has found as a whole regarding which attributes or 
factors the general public think should count in priority setting and what 
weight they should receive. A systematic review was undertaken (in August 2014) 
to address these questions based on empirical studies that elicited stated 
preferences from the general public. Sixty four studies, applying eight methods, 
spanning five continents met the inclusion criteria. Discrete Choice Experiment 
(DCE) and Person Trade-off (PTO) were the most popular standard methods for 
preference elicitation, but only 34% of all studies calculated distributional 
weights, mainly using PTO. While there is heterogeneity, results suggest the 
young are favoured over the old, the more severely ill are favoured over the 
less severely ill, and people with self-induced illness or high socioeconomic 
status tend to receive lower priority. In those studies that considered health 
gain, larger gain is universally preferred, but at a diminishing rate. Evidence 
from the small number of studies that explored preferences over different 
components of health gain suggests life extension is favoured over quality of 
life enhancement; however this may be reversed at the end of life. The majority 
of studies that investigated end of life care found weak/no support for 
providing a premium for such care. The review highlights considerable 
heterogeneity in both methods and results. Further methodological work is needed 
to achieve the goal of deriving robust distributional weights for use in health 
care priority setting.

Crown Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2015.10.005
PMID: 26498059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Australas Psychiatry. 2015 Dec;23(6):650-3. doi: 10.1177/1039856215613008.
Epub  2015 Oct 23.

The pivotal role of primary care in meeting the health needs of people recently 
released from prison.

Kinner SA(1), Young JT(2), Carroll M(3).

Author information:
(1)NHMRC Senior Research Fellow and Professor, Griffith Criminology Institute & 
Menzies Health Institute Queensland, Griffith University, Mt Gravatt, QLD, and; 
Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, University of Melbourne, 
Parkville, VIC and; QCIDD, Mater Research Institute-UQ, University of 
Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, and; Centre for Adolescent Health, Murdoch Children's 
Research Institute, Parkville, VIC, Australia s.kinner@griffith.edu.au.
(2)Research Fellow and PhD Candidate, Melbourne School of Population and Global 
Health, University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC and; Centre for Health Services 
Research, School of Population Health, The University of Western Australia, 
Perth, WA; National Drug Research Institute, Curtin University, Perth, WA, 
Australia.
(3)Research Fellow and PhD Candidate, Melbourne School of Population and Global 
Health, University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: Australia's prison population is growing at a rate well in excess of 
population growth. Indigenous Australians are over-represented by a factor of 
13. Prisoners are a profoundly marginalised group characterised by complex 
health and social needs. Despite improvements in health during incarceration, 
poor health outcomes after release are common, and the net effect of 
incarceration is usually health depleting. Given the need for effective care 
coordination, primary care plays a pivotal role in meeting the health needs of 
this population. In this paper we review what is known about patterns of primary 
care utilisation in ex-prisoners, identify evidence-based strategies for 
increasing access to primary care in ex-prisoners, and consider how such contact 
may shape subsequent health service outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Primary care is a necessary but not sufficient condition for 
effective post-release support. Positive outcomes may depend more on the quality 
than the quantity of care received. Given massive over-representation of 
Indigenous people in Australia's prisons, and compelling evidence of preventable 
morbidity and mortality after release from prison, effective models of care for 
this population are an important component of closing the gap in Indigenous life 
expectancy.

© The Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/1039856215613008
PMID: 26498149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. BMC Public Health. 2015 Oct 23;15:1082. doi: 10.1186/s12889-015-2408-8.

Causal inference in multi-state models-sickness absence and work for 1145 
participants after work rehabilitation.

Gran JM(1), Lie SA(2), Øyeflaten I(3)(4), Borgan Ø(5), Aalen OO(6).

Author information:
(1)Oslo Centre for Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Department of Biostatistics, 
University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway. j.m.gran@medisin.uio.no.
(2)Department of Clinical Dentistry, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway. 
Stein.Lie@uib.no.
(3)National Centre for Occupational Rehabilitation, Rauland, Norway. 
irene.oyeflaten@air.no.
(4)Uni Research Health, Bergen, Norway. irene.oyeflaten@air.no.
(5)Department of Mathematics, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway. 
borgan@math.uio.no.
(6)Oslo Centre for Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Department of Biostatistics, 
University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway. o.o.aalen@medisin.uio.no.

BACKGROUND: Multi-state models, as an extension of traditional models in 
survival analysis, have proved to be a flexible framework for analysing the 
transitions between various states of sickness absence and work over time. In 
this paper we study a cohort of work rehabilitation participants and analyse 
their subsequent sickness absence using Norwegian registry data on sickness 
benefits. Our aim is to study how detailed individual covariate information from 
questionnaires explain differences in sickness absence and work, and to use 
methods from causal inference to assess the effect of interventions to reduce 
sickness absence. Examples of the latter are to evaluate the use of partial 
versus full time sick leave and to estimate the effect of a cooperation 
agreement on a more inclusive working life.
METHODS: Covariate adjusted transition intensities are estimated using Cox 
proportional hazards and Aalen additive hazards models, while the effect of 
interventions are assessed using methods of inverse probability weighting and 
G-computation.
RESULTS: Results from covariate adjusted analyses show great differences in 
sickness absence and work for patients with assumed high risk and low risk 
covariate characteristics, for example based on age, type of work, income, 
health score and type of diagnosis. Causal analyses show small effects of 
partial versus full time sick leave and a positive effect of having a 
cooperation agreement, with about 5 percent points higher probability of 
returning to work.
CONCLUSIONS: Detailed covariate information is important for explaining 
transitions between different states of sickness absence and work, also for 
patient specific cohorts. Methods for causal inference can provide the needed 
tools for going from covariate specific estimates to population average effects 
in multi-state models, and identify causal parameters with a straightforward 
interpretation based on interventions.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-015-2408-8
PMCID: PMC4619267
PMID: 26498223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Curr Opin Pharmacol. 2016 Feb;26:54-60. doi: 10.1016/j.coph.2015.10.001.
Epub  2015 Oct 26.

Critical role of the Mac1/NOX2 pathway in mediating reactive 
microgliosis-generated chronic neuroinflammation and progressive 
neurodegeneration.

Chen SH(1), Oyarzabal EA(2), Hong JS(3).

Author information:
(1)Neurobiology Laboratory, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, 
National Institutes of Health, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA. Electronic 
address: chens3@niehs.nih.gov.
(2)Neurobiology Laboratory, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, 
National Institutes of Health, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA; Neurobiology 
Curriculum, University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(3)Neurobiology Laboratory, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, 
National Institutes of Health, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA.

As average life expectancy rises throughout the world, neurodegenerative 
diseases have emerged as one of the greatest global public heath challenges in 
modern times. Substantial efforts have been made in researching 
neurodegenerative diseases over the last few decades, yet their predominantly 
sporadic nature has made uncovering their etiologies challenging. Mounting 
evidence has suggested that factors like damage-associated molecular patterns 
(DAMPs) released by stressed and dying neurons are likely involved in disease 
pathology and in stimulating chronic activation of microglia that contributes to 
neuronal oxidative stress and degeneration. This review focuses on how the 
microglial integrin receptor Mac1 and its downstream effector NADPH oxidase 
(NOX2) contribute to maintaining chronic neuroinflammation and are crucial in 
inflammation-driven neurotoxicity in neurodegenerative diseases. Our hope is to 
provide new insights on novel targets and therapies that could slow or even halt 
neurodegeneration.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.coph.2015.10.001
PMCID: PMC4716876
PMID: 26498406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interests The authors have declared 
that no conflict of interest exists.


171. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 2016 Feb;142(2):471-9. doi:
10.1007/s00432-015-2056-5.

Analysis of outcomes of percutaneous coronary intervention in metastatic cancer 
patients with acute coronary syndrome over a 10-year period.

Guddati AK, Joy PS, Kumar G.

BACKGROUND: Early medical palliative care has been shown to improve overall 
survival of patients with metastatic cancer, but the role of cardiac surgical 
interventions in such patients is not clear. The limited life expectancy of 
these patients often poses a dilemma to clinicians and involves a detailed 
analysis of the risks and benefits of such interventions. This study examines 
the outcomes of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in patients with 
metastatic cancer.
METHODS: The National Inpatient Database of USA was used to identify patients 
aged ≥ 1 8 years who had a diagnosis of metastatic cancer and acute coronary 
syndrome (ACS) between 2000 and 2009 using ICD-9-CM codes. These were 
categorized into ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) and non-ST elevation 
myocardial infarction (NSTEMI). The utilization of PCI was also identified using 
ICD-9-CM codes. The outcomes studied were in-hospital mortality, length of 
hospital stay and discharge disposition. The association between various 
outcomes and use of cardiac catheterization was assessed using multivariate 
regression models.
RESULTS: There were 49,515 patients with metastatic disease who were discharged 
with a diagnosis of ACS. Of these, 15,964 had STEMI and 33,551 had NSTEMI. 3981 
patients (24.9%) with STEMI and 3209 patients (9.6%) with NSTEMI received 
percutaneous coronary intervention. Caucasian male patients under age 65 years 
were more likely to receive PCI in the setting of an ACS. The hospital 
characteristics associated with higher use of PCI included academic affiliation, 
large bedsize, private for-profit hospitals and Midwestern and Western regions 
of USA. The adjusted odds of receiving PCI in this group of patient have 
gradually increased by 1.14 every year in last decade (95% CI 1.11-1.16). The 
beneficial effect of PCI on in-hospital mortality has declined in NSTEMI such 
that by 2009, there was no significant difference between patients who received 
PCI and those who did not receive PCI. This has remained unchanged for STEMI 
patients.C ONCLUSIONS: In metastatic cancer patients with ACS, the rate of PCI 
has increased over the last decade. In the current era, metastatic cancer 
patients with NSTEMI may perform equally well without PCI in terms of 
in-hospital mortality. The decision to provide such care may be considered on an 
individual basis based on the extent of their medical comorbidity and tumor 
burden.

DOI: 10.1007/s00432-015-2056-5
PMID: 26498773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. BMC Geriatr. 2015 Oct 23;15:133. doi: 10.1186/s12877-015-0133-x.

The effectiveness and cost effectiveness of the PAtient-Centred Team (PACT) 
model: study protocol of a prospective matched control before-and-after study.

Bergmo TS(1), Berntsen GK(2), Dalbakk M(3), Rumpsfeld M(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Centre for Integrated Care and Telemedicine, University Hospital of 
North Norway, 9038, Tromsø, Norway. trine.bergmo@telemed.no.
(2)Norwegian Centre for Integrated Care and Telemedicine, University Hospital of 
North Norway, 9038, Tromsø, Norway. gro.berntsen@telemed.no.
(3)Division of Internal Medicine, University Hospital of North Norway, Tromsø, 
Norway. monika.marie.dalbakk@unn.no.
(4)Division of Internal Medicine, University Hospital of North Norway, Tromsø, 
Norway. markus.rumpsfeld@unn.no.
(5)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Tromsø - The Arctic University 
of Norway, Tromsø, Norway. markus.rumpsfeld@unn.no.

BACKGROUND: The present study protocol describes the evaluation of a 
comprehensive integrated care model implemented at two hospital sites at the 
University Hospital of North Norway (UNN). The PAtient Centred Team (PACT) model 
includes proactive, patient-centred interdisciplinary teams that aim to improve 
the continuum and quality of care of frail elderly patients and reduce health 
care costs. The main objectives of the evaluation are to analyse the 
effectiveness and cost effectiveness of using patient-centred teams as part of 
routine service provision for this patient group. The evaluation will analyse 
the effect on patient health and functional status, patient experiences and 
hospital utilisation, and it will conduct an economic evaluation. This paper 
describes the PACT model and the rationale for and design of the planned 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness study.
METHODS/DESIGN: This is a prospective, non-randomised matched control 
before-and-after intervention study. Patients in the intervention group will be 
recruited from the hospital sites that have implemented the PACT model. The 
controls will be recruited from two hospitals without the model. The control 
patients and the index patients will be matched according to sex, age and number 
of long-term conditions. The study aims to include 600 patients in each group, 
which will provide sufficient power to detect a clinical change in the primary 
outcome. The primary outcome is the physical dimension of the Short Form Health 
Survey (SF-36). Secondary outcomes are the Patient Generated Index (PGI), the 
Patient Activation Measure (PAM), the Patient Assessment of Chronic Illness Care 
(PACIC), hospitalisation and length of stay. The cost-effectiveness study takes 
a health provider perspective and calculates the cost per quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) gained. The data will be collected at baseline, 6 and 
12 months. The data will be analysed using techniques and models that recognise 
the lack of randomisation and the correlation of cost and effect data.
DISCUSSION: The study results will provide knowledge about whether the 
integrated care model implemented at UNN improves the quality of care for the 
frail elderly with multiple conditions. The study will establish whether the 
PAC. T model improves health and functional status and is cost effective 
compared to the usual care for this patient group.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT02541474.

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-015-0133-x
PMCID: PMC4619094
PMID: 26499256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Epidemiol Prev. 2015 Jul-Aug;39(4 Suppl 1):45-50.

Genetic testing and economic evaluations: a systematic review of the literature.

D'Andrea E(1), Marzuillo C(1), Pelone F(2), De Vito C(1), Villari P(3).

Author information:
(1)Dip. Sanità pubblica e malattie infettive, Sapienza Università di Roma, 
Italy.
(2)Faculty of Health, Social Care and Education, Kingston University and St 
George's, University of London, London, UK.
(3)Dip. Sanità pubblica e malattie infettive, Sapienza Università di Roma, 
Italy. paolo.villari@uniroma1.it.

OBJECTIVES: To identify those studies in which economic analysis of predictive 
genetic and pharmacogenetic testing programs have been carried out. Since the 
Italian National Prevention Plan 2014-2018 foresees the implementation of 
genetic testing for inherited breast cancer, special attention was given to the 
cost-effectiveness of BRCA1/2 testing programs.
METHODS: A systematic review of primary economic evaluations (EEs) of predictive 
genetic and pharmacogenetic testing programs and an overview of previously 
published systematic reviews of economic evaluations (ERs) was performed.
RESULTS: Overall 128 EEs and 11 ERs were identified. The methodological quality 
of both EEs and ERs was good on average. Both predictive genetic and 
pharmacogenetic testing programs were mainly concerned with oncological 
diseases. Seventeen percent of genetic testing programs are cost-saving, while a 
further 44% of cost/QALY ratios fall under the commonly used threshold of 
€37,000 per QALY. For BRCA1/2 testing, only cascade genetic screening programs, 
targeted to close relatives of carriers, show clear evidence of 
cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSION: Despite some limitations, EEs and ERs are powerful tools that 
provide indications to policy-makers on which genetic testing programs might be 
introduced into health care systems and public health practice.

PMID: 26499415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Age (Dordr). 2015 Dec;37(6):107. doi: 10.1007/s11357-015-9847-0. Epub 2015
Oct  24.

Can consumption of antioxidant rich mushrooms extend longevity?: antioxidant 
activity of Pleurotus spp. and its effects on Mexican fruit flies' (Anastrepha 
ludens) longevity.

Sánchez JE(1)(2), Jiménez-Pérez G(3), Liedo P(3).

Author information:
(1)El Colegio de la Frontera Sur. Apdo, Postal 36, Tapachula, Chiapas, México. 
esanchez@ecosur.mx.
(2)Km 2.5 Carretera al Antiguo Aeropuerto, 30700, Tapachula, Chiapas, Mexico. 
esanchez@ecosur.mx.
(3)El Colegio de la Frontera Sur. Apdo, Postal 36, Tapachula, Chiapas, México.

The variability of antioxidant capacity of 14 strains of the edible oyster 
mushroom Pleurotus spp. was determined, and the effect of selected mushroom 
supplements on the longevity of the Mexican fruit fly, Anastrepha ludens, was 
evaluated. The antioxidant capacity of the fruiting bodies was determined by 
three different methods, measuring the free radical scavenging activity of 
methanolic extracts, the OH radical scavenging capacity, and the total phenol 
content. The inhibition percentage of the DPPH radical varied between 32.6 and 
85.7% and total phenols varied between 30.6 and 143.3 mg/g. The strains with the 
highest (Pleurotus djamor ECS-0142) and lowest (Pleurotus ostreatus ECS-1123) 
antioxidant capacity were selected to study their effect on the survival, life 
expectancy, and mortality of the Mexican fruit fly A. ludens. The results 
demonstrated differing responses between male and female flies. High 
concentrations of mushrooms (5 and 20%) in the diet resulted in a decrease in 
life expectancy. However, flies on the diet with 1% P. djamor ECS-0142 showed 
slightly but significantly greater survival than those on the control diet. The 
possible adverse effect of protein content in mushroom extracts is discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-015-9847-0
PMCID: PMC5005851
PMID: 26499817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. J Clin Diagn Res. 2015 Sep;9(9):LC01-5. doi: 10.7860/JCDR/2015/14100.6426.
Epub  2015 Sep 1.

Screening Depression Among Elderly in a City of Southeast Asia.

Gupta A(1), Mohan U(2), Singh SK(3), Manar MK(4), Tiwari SC(5), Singh VK(4).

Author information:
(1)Assistant Professor, Department of Community Medicine, Hind Institute of 
Medical Sciences , Barabanki, Uttar Pradesh, India .
(2)Professor, Department of Community Medicine & Public Health, K.G. Medical 
University , UP, Lucknow, India .
(3)Associate Professor, Department of Community Medicine & Public Health, K.G. 
Medical University , UP, Lucknow, India .
(4)Assistant Professor, Department of Community Medicine & Public Health, K.G. 
Medical University , UP, Lucknow, India .
(5)Professor, Department of Geriatric Mental Health, K.G. Medical University , 
UP, Lucknow, India .

INTRODUCTION: Changing family structure (Joint to Nuclear), increased life 
expectancy above 60 years of age, generation and communication gap, financial 
dependency on children leads to conflict among family members. This may sometime 
lead to old age home settlement of elderly people. All these condition leads to 
isolation and insecurity among elderly people and this condition affect the 
mental status of elderly people which may sometime lead to depression among Old 
Age Homes residents and family living elderly people.
OBJECTIVE: To study the prevalence of depression and diagnosed systemic 
morbidities among elderly people. To study the predictors of depression among 
study subjects.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A descriptive cross-sectional study was conducted among 
elderly people (age ≥60 years) residing in old age homes (OAHs) and in 
community/families in Lucknow, India. Multistage sampling technique was used to 
include required sample of subjects from the community and for OAHs all the 
elderly people living in OAHs were included. Geriatric depression scale was used 
to screen depression.
RESULTS: Depression was 27.7% among elderly people residing in OAHs while it was 
15.6% those residing at their own homes. In community most frequent morbidity 
was hypertension (17.7%) while 41.1% elderly people had no diagnosed morbidity. 
In OAHs out of total the musculoskeletal morbidity (33.7%) was most frequent and 
18.8% had no diagnosed morbidity. On multivariate analysis financial dependency 
and education were found to be statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: Depression was more common among elderly living in Old Age Homes as 
compare to those living in community. Hypertension, musculoskeletal morbidities 
and eye related morbidities were most frequent diagnosed morbidities. Financial 
Dependency & Education were found to be primary predictors of depression.

DOI: 10.7860/JCDR/2015/14100.6426
PMCID: PMC4606253
PMID: 26500924


176. J Clin Diagn Res. 2015 Sep;9(9):XC05-XC08. doi:
10.7860/JCDR/2015/14880.6511.  Epub 2015 Sep 1.

Synchronous Bilateral Breast Cancers.

Padmanabhan N(1), Subramanyan A(2), Radhakrishna S(3).

Author information:
(1)Registrar, Department of Surgical Oncology, Apollo Speciality Hospitals , 
Chennai-35, India .
(2)Chief of Surgical Pathology, Department of Surgical Pathology, Apollo 
Speciality Hospitals , Chennai-35, India .
(3)Senior Consultant, Department of Breast surgery and Oncoplastic Breast 
surgeon, Apollo Speciality Hospitals , Chennai-35, India .

BACKGROUND: Bilateral breast cancer (BBC) is not an uncommon entity in 
contemporary breast clinics. Improved life expectancy after breast cancer 
treatment and routine use of contra-lateral breast mammography has led to 
increased incidence of BBC. Our study objective was to define the 
epidemiological and tumour characteristics of BBC in India.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 1251 breast cancer patients were treated 
during the period January 2007 to March 2015 and 30 patients were found to have 
BBC who constituted the study population (60 tumour samples). Synchronous 
bilateral breast cancers (SBC) was defined as two tumours diagnosed within an 
interval of 6 months and a second cancer diagnosed after 6 months was labelled 
as metachronous breast cancer (MBC). Analyses of patient and tumour 
characteristics were done in this prospective data base of BBC patients.
RESULTS: Median patient age was 66 years (range 39-85). Majority of the patients 
had SBC (n=28) and in 12 patients the second tumour was clinically occult and 
detected only by mammography of the contra-lateral breast. The second tumour was 
found at lower tumour size compared to the first in 73% of cases and was 
negative for axillary metastasis in 80% of cases (24/30). Infiltrating ductal 
carcinoma was the commonest histological type (n=51) and majority of the tumours 
were ER/PR positive (50/60). Her2 was overexpressed in 13 tumours (21%). Over 
70% (22/30) of patients had similar histology in both breasts and amongst them 
grade concordance was present in about 69% (15/22) of patients. Concordance 
rates of ER, PR and Her2 statuses were 83%, 80% and 90% respectively. Bilateral 
mastectomy was the commonest surgery performed in 80% of the patients followed 
by bilateral breast conservation in 13%. At the end of study period, 26 patients 
were alive and disease free. Median survival was 29 months (range 3-86 months).
CONCLUSION: In most patients with BBC, the second tumour is identified at an 
early stage than index tumours supporting the importance of contralateral breast 
cancer screening at the time of primary diagnosis and during follow-up. BBC 
occurs more frequently in old age group and majority of these tumours are 
estrogen dependent. There is good pathological concordance between the index 
tumour and the contralateral breast cancer.

DOI: 10.7860/JCDR/2015/14880.6511
PMCID: PMC4606324
PMID: 26500995


177. JAMA. 2015 Oct 20;314(15):1599-614. doi: 10.1001/jama.2015.12783.

Breast Cancer Screening for Women at Average Risk: 2015 Guideline Update From 
the American Cancer Society.

Oeffinger KC(1), Fontham ET(2), Etzioni R(3), Herzig A(4), Michaelson JS(5), 
Shih YC(6), Walter LC(7), Church TR(8), Flowers CR(9), LaMonte SJ(10), Wolf 
AM(11), DeSantis C(12), Lortet-Tieulent J(12), Andrews K(12), 
Manassaram-Baptiste D(12), Saslow D(12), Smith RA(12), Brawley OW(12), Wender 
R(12); American Cancer Society.

Author information:
(1)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York.
(2)Louisiana State University School of Public Health, New Orleans.
(3)University of Washington and the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 
Seattle.
(4)Patient advocate, Troy, New York.
(5)Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston.
(6)University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston.
(7)University of California, San Francisco, and San Francisco VA Medical Center.
(8)Masonic Cancer Center and the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.
(9)Emory University School of Medicine and Winship Cancer Institute, Atlanta, 
Georgia.
(10)Independent retired physician and patient advocate.
(11)University of Virginia School of Medicine, Charlottesville.
(12)American Cancer Society, Atlanta, Georgia.

Erratum in
    JAMA. 2016 Apr 5;315(13):1406.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2015 Oct 20;314(15):1569-71.
    JAMA Intern Med. 2015 Dec;175(12):1970-1.
    JAMA. 2016 Apr 5;315(13):1403-4.
    JAMA. 2016 Apr 5;315(13):1404.

IMPORTANCE: Breast cancer is a leading cause of premature mortality among US 
women. Early detection has been shown to be associated with reduced breast 
cancer morbidity and mortality.
OBJECTIVE: To update the American Cancer Society (ACS) 2003 breast cancer 
screening guideline for women at average risk for breast cancer.
PROCESS: The ACS commissioned a systematic evidence review of the breast cancer 
screening literature to inform the update and a supplemental analysis of 
mammography registry data to address questions related to the screening 
interval. Formulation of recommendations was based on the quality of the 
evidence and judgment (incorporating values and preferences) about the balance 
of benefits and harms.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: Screening mammography in women aged 40 to 69 years is 
associated with a reduction in breast cancer deaths across a range of study 
designs, and inferential evidence supports breast cancer screening for women 70 
years and older who are in good health. Estimates of the cumulative lifetime 
risk of false-positive examination results are greater if screening begins at 
younger ages because of the greater number of mammograms, as well as the higher 
recall rate in younger women. The quality of the evidence for overdiagnosis is 
not sufficient to estimate a lifetime risk with confidence. Analysis examining 
the screening interval demonstrates more favorable tumor characteristics when 
premenopausal women are screened annually vs biennially. Evidence does not 
support routine clinical breast examination as a screening method for women at 
average risk.
RECOMMENDATIONS: The ACS recommends that women with an average risk of breast 
cancer should undergo regular screening mammography starting at age 45 years 
(strong recommendation). Women aged 45 to 54 years should be screened annually 
(qualified recommendation). Women 55 years and older should transition to 
biennial screening or have the opportunity to continue screening annually 
(qualified recommendation). Women should have the opportunity to begin annual 
screening between the ages of 40 and 44 years (qualified recommendation). Women 
should continue screening mammography as long as their overall health is good 
and they have a life expectancy of 10 years or longer (qualified 
recommendation). The ACS does not recommend clinical breast examination for 
breast cancer screening among average-risk women at any age (qualified 
recommendation).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: These updated ACS guidelines provide evidence-based 
recommendations for breast cancer screening for women at average risk of breast 
cancer. These recommendations should be considered by physicians and women in 
discussions about breast cancer screening.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2015.12783
PMCID: PMC4831582
PMID: 26501536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: All authors 
have completed and submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosures of Potential 
Conflicts of Interest. Dr. Etzioni reports stock ownership in Seno Medical 
Instruments, outside the submitted work. Dr. Flowers reports having received 
compensation as a consultant to Spectrum, Celgene, Optum Rx, and Seattle 
Genetics, serving as an unpaid consultant to Genentech/Biogen-Idec/Roche and 
Millenium/Takeda, and receiving compensation for development of educational 
presentations from Clinical Care Options, Educational Concepts, PRIME Oncology, 
and Research to Practice. His institution has received research funding from 
Abbvie, Acerta, Celgene, Gilead Sciences, Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Janssen 
Pharmaceutical, Millenium/Takeda, Spectrum, Onyx Pharmaceuticals, and 
Pharmacyclics. Dr. Michaelson reports having received compensation from NA for 
consulting on lawsuits involving the treatment of cancer and having received 
grant funding from Nikon. Dr. Smith reports serving as an unpaid advisor on 
General Electric Health Care’s Breast Medical Advisory Board, to provide advice 
on appropriate implementation of technology in low- and middle-income countries. 
The other authors report no disclosures.


178. JAMA. 2015 Oct 20;314(15):1615-34. doi: 10.1001/jama.2015.13183.

Benefits and Harms of Breast Cancer Screening: A Systematic Review.

Myers ER(1), Moorman P(2), Gierisch JM(3), Havrilesky LJ(1), Grimm LJ(4), Ghate 
S(4), Davidson B(5), Mongtomery RC(6), Crowley MJ(3), McCrory DC(3), Kendrick 
A(7), Sanders GD(6).

Author information:
(1)Duke Evidence Synthesis Group, Duke Clinical Research Institute, Durham, 
North Carolina2Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Duke University School 
of Medicine, Durham, North Carolina.
(2)Duke Evidence Synthesis Group, Duke Clinical Research Institute, Durham, 
North Carolina3Department of Community and Family Medicine, Duke University 
School of Medicine, Durham, North Carolina.
(3)Duke Evidence Synthesis Group, Duke Clinical Research Institute, Durham, 
