DOI: 10.7448/IAS.18.1.20261
PMCID: PMC4598331
PMID: 26449273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Hum Exp Toxicol. 2016 Jul;35(7):747-59. doi: 10.1177/0960327115604200. Epub
2015  Oct 8.

Ten-year disease burden of acute poisonings in northeast Iran and estimations 
for national rates.

Asadi R(1), Afshari R(2).

Author information:
(1)Medical Toxicology Research Centre, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran.
(2)Medical Toxicology Research Centre, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran Addiction Research Centre, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran afsharireza@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Acute poisoning is a common health problem worldwide. Traditionally, 
the frequency of admitted cases, number of deaths or online resources were used 
to measure the volume of this problem. In this study, the burden of acute 
poisoning is addressed for the first time.
METHODS: Data related to 44,340 poisoned patients from 2004 to 2013 were 
analysed. Two sources including hospital information and forensic medicine data 
of the Khorasan Razavi catchment area. The disability-adjusted life years (DALY) 
method - including years of life lost (YLL) and years lived with disability 
(YLD) - was used to estimate the burden.
RESULTS: In this period and for all acute poisonings, the mean (SD, 
minimum-maximum) incidence of acute poisoning was 30,485 (3049 per year). In 
total, 29,208 DALY were lost, including 8499 YLD and 20,709 YLL. DALY have 
increased from 1808 in 2004 to 4283 in 2013. Among the total DALY over this 
10-year period, 17,592 (60%) were related to males. Narcotic use accounted for 
the largest percentage of DALY (19.6%), followed by analgesics-sedative use 
(16.3%) and illegal drug use (11.41%). The health loss due to these causes was 
large (YLD = 8499 and YLL = 20,709) and showed a rapidly increasing trend.
CONCLUSIONS: Estimating DALY is more informative than using the frequency of 
death. If we expect the same ratio in the country, we would expect a DALY rate 
of 729,750 years for the 75,000,000 inhabitants of this country in this time 
period or 72,975 DALY lost per year for poisonings.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/0960327115604200
PMID: 26449646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Exp Clin Transplant. 2015 Oct;13(5):394-401.

Influence of Factors Associated With the Deceased-Donor on Kidney Transplant 
Outcomes.

Stolyar AG(1), Budkar LN, Solodushkin SI, Iumanova IF.

Author information:
(1)Regional Clinical Hospital No 1, Ekaterinburg, Russian Federation.

OBJECTIVES: We analyzed different donor characteristics to determine those that 
significantly affect patient and graft outcomes after kidney transplant.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a retrospective analysis of patients who had 
received kidney transplants at our institution between 1990 and 2011 from 
deceased-donors. We tracked these patients until the end of 2014. Using 
univariate and multivariate analyses, we analyzed the following outcomes: 
patient status, graft status, chronic allograft nephropathy, and delayed graft 
function.
RESULTS: In 342 recipients, univariate analysis revealed donor-associated 
predictors of transplant outcomes. Recipients of kidneys from older donors 
showed longer time to creatinine normalization (P = .047). We found a partial 
correlation between donor diagnosis and the number of dialyses after surgery 
(excluding the effect of donor age), with patients receiving kidneys from donors 
who had cerebrovascular events having higher risk of delayed graft function (P = 
.03). Donors with shorter stays in intensive care units resulted in longer graft 
survival (P = .02), and vasopressor use by donors was associated with delayed 
graft function in recipients (P = .018). Low serum sodium levels in donors 
predicted worse survival of recipients and transplants (P = .015 and P = .048). 
The number of hemodialysis procedures after transplant was correlated with the 
donors ' creatinine level (P = .027). Insufficient daily dieresis of donor 
predicted worse graft survival (P = .04). Correlation analysis showed that a 
higher PCO2 level in donors was significantly associated with longer creatinine 
normalization time after kidney transplant (P = .001). Cox regression analysis 
detected 2 significant independent predictors of graft outcomes: duration of 
perfusion of donor kidney (P = .016) and length of intensive care unit stay of 
donor (P = .032), with improved prognosis associated with longer perfusion time 
and shorter time in intensive care unit.
CONCLUSIONS: The kidney donor has a direct effect on patient life expectancy.

PMID: 26450462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Hum Mol Genet. 2016 Apr 15;25(R1):R9-17. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddv420. Epub 2015
Oct  8.

Progress and prospects of gene therapy clinical trials for the muscular 
dystrophies.

Bengtsson NE(1), Seto JT(1), Hall JK(1), Chamberlain JS(2), Odom GL(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and.
(2)Department of Neurology and Department of Biochemistry, University of 
Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA 98195-7350, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology and godom@uw.edu.

Clinical trials represent a critical avenue for new treatment development, where 
early phases (I, I/II) are designed to test safety and effectiveness of new 
therapeutics or diagnostic indicators. A number of recent advances have spurred 
renewed optimism toward initiating clinical trials and developing refined 
therapies for the muscular dystrophies (MD's) and other myogenic disorders. MD's 
encompass a heterogeneous group of degenerative disorders often characterized by 
progressive muscle weakness and fragility. Many of these diseases result from 
mutations in genes encoding proteins of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex 
(DGC). The most common and severe form among children is Duchenne muscular 
dystrophy, caused by mutations in the dystrophin gene, with an average life 
expectancy around 25 years of age. Another group of MD's referred to as the 
limb-girdle muscular dystrophies (LGMDs) can affect boys or girls, with 
different types caused by mutations in different genes. Mutation of the 
α-sarcoglycan gene, also a DGC component, causes LGMD2D and represents the most 
common form of LGMD. Early preclinical and clinical trial findings support the 
feasibility of gene therapy via recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors as a 
viable treatment approach for many MDs. In this mini-review, we present an 
overview of recent progress in clinical gene therapy trials of the MD's and 
touch upon promising preclinical advances.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddv420
PMCID: PMC4802376
PMID: 26450518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2016 Feb;37(2):330-5. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A4515. Epub
2015  Oct 8.

Evaluation for Blunt Cerebrovascular Injury: Review of the Literature and a 
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.

Malhotra A(1), Wu X(2), Kalra VB(2), Schindler J(3), Matouk CC(4), Forman HP(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Departments of Diagnostic Radiology (A.M., X.W., V.B.K., C.C.M., 
H.P.F.) ajay.malhotra@yale.
(2)From the Departments of Diagnostic Radiology (A.M., X.W., V.B.K., C.C.M., 
H.P.F.).
(3)Neurology (J.S.) Neurosurgery (J.S., C.C.M.), Yale School of Medicine, New 
Haven, Connecticut.
(4)From the Departments of Diagnostic Radiology (A.M., X.W., V.B.K., C.C.M., 
H.P.F.) Neurosurgery (J.S., C.C.M.), Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Evaluation for blunt cerebrovascular injury has 
generated immense controversy with wide variations in recommendations regarding 
the need for evaluation and the optimal imaging technique. We review the 
literature and determine the most cost-effective strategy for evaluating blunt 
cerebrovascular injury in trauma patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A comprehensive literature review was performed with data 
extracted to create a decision-tree analysis for 5 different strategies: 
anticoagulation for high-risk (based on the Denver screening criteria) patients, 
selective DSA or CTA (only high-risk patients), and DSA or CTA for all trauma 
patients. The economic evaluation was based on a health care payer perspective 
during a 1-year horizon. Statistical analyses were performed. The 
cost-effectiveness was compared through 2 main indicators: the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio and net monetary benefit.
RESULTS: Selective anticoagulation in high-risk patients was shown to be the 
most cost-effective strategy, with the lowest cost and greatest effectiveness 
(an average cost of $21.08 and average quality-adjusted life year of 0.7231). 
Selective CTA has comparable utility and only a slightly higher cost (an average 
cost of $48.84 and average quality-adjusted life year of 0.7229). DSA, whether 
performed selectively or for all patients, was not optimal from both the cost 
and utility perspectives. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated these results to be 
robust for a wide range of parameter values.
CONCLUSIONS: Selective CTA in high-risk patients is the optimal and 
cost-effective imaging strategy. It remains the dominant strategy over DSA, even 
assuming a low CTA sensitivity and irrespective of the proportion of patients at 
high-risk and the incidence of blunt cerebrovascular injury in high-risk 
patients.

© 2016 by American Journal of Neuroradiology.

DOI: 10.3174/ajnr.A4515
PMCID: PMC7959958
PMID: 26450540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Ther Clin Risk Manag. 2015 Sep 28;11:1475-88. doi: 10.2147/TCRM.S55889. 
eCollection 2015.

Assessment and management of respiratory function in patients with Duchenne 
muscular dystrophy: current and emerging options.

LoMauro A(1), D'Angelo MG(2), Aliverti A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electronics, Information and Bioengineering, Politecnico di 
Milano, Milan, Italy.
(2)IRCCS Eugenio Medea, Bosisio Parini, Italy.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is an X-linked myopathy resulting in 
progressive weakness and wasting of all the striated muscles including the 
respiratory muscles. The consequences are loss of ambulation before teen ages, 
cardiac involvement and breathing difficulties, the main cause of death. A cure 
for DMD is not currently available. In the last decades the survival of patients 
with DMD has improved because the natural history of the disease can be changed 
thanks to a more comprehensive therapeutic approach. This comprises 
interventions targeted to the manifestations and complications of the disease, 
particularly in the respiratory care. These include: 1) pharmacological 
intervention, namely corticosteroids and idebenone that significantly reduce the 
decline of spirometric parameters; 2) rehabilitative intervention, namely lung 
volume recruitment techniques that help prevent atelectasis and slows the rate 
of decline of pulmonary function; 3) scoliosis treatment, namely steroid therapy 
that is used to reduce muscle inflammation/degeneration and prolong ambulation 
in order to delay the onset of scoliosis, being an additional contribution to 
the restrictive lung pattern; 4) cough assisted devices that improve airway 
clearance thus reducing the risk of pulmonary infections; and 5) non-invasive 
mechanical ventilation that is essential to treat nocturnal hypoventilation, 
sleep disordered breathing, and ultimately respiratory failure. Without any 
intervention death occurs within the first 2 decades, however, thanks to this 
multidisciplinary therapeutic approach life expectancy of a newborn with DMD 
nowadays can be significantly prolonged up to his fourth decade. This review is 
aimed at providing state-of-the-art methods and techniques for the assessment 
and management of respiratory function in DMD patients.

DOI: 10.2147/TCRM.S55889
PMCID: PMC4592047
PMID: 26451113


16. PLoS Genet. 2015 Oct 9;11(10):e1005587. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1005587. 
eCollection 2015 Oct.

Type IV Collagen Controls the Axogenesis of Cerebellar Granule Cells by 
Regulating Basement Membrane Integrity in Zebrafish.

Takeuchi M(1), Yamaguchi S(2), Yonemura S(3), Kakiguchi K(3), Sato Y(4), 
Higashiyama T(4), Shimizu T(5), Hibi M(5).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Organogenesis and Organ Function, Bioscience and Biotechnology 
Center, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan.
(2)Devision of Biological Science, Graduate School of Science, Nagoya 
University, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan.
(3)Ultrastructural Research Team, RIKEN Center for Life Science Technologies, 
Kobe, Hyogo, Japan.
(4)Institute of Transformative Bio-Molecules, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Aichi, 
Japan.
(5)Laboratory of Organogenesis and Organ Function, Bioscience and Biotechnology 
Center, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan; Devision of Biological Science, 
Graduate School of Science, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan.

Granule cells (GCs) are the major glutamatergic neurons in the cerebellum, and 
GC axon formation is an initial step in establishing functional cerebellar 
circuits. In the zebrafish cerebellum, GCs can be classified into rostromedial 
and caudolateral groups, according to the locations of their somata in the 
corresponding cerebellar lobes. The axons of the GCs in the caudolateral lobes 
terminate on crest cells in the dorsal hindbrain, as well as forming en passant 
synapses with Purkinje cells in the cerebellum. In the zebrafish mutant 
shiomaneki, the caudolateral GCs extend aberrant axons. Positional cloning 
revealed that the shiomaneki (sio) gene locus encodes Col4a6, a subunit of type 
IV collagen, which, in a complex with Col4a5, is a basement membrane (BM) 
component. Both col4a5 and col4a6 mutants displayed similar abnormalities in the 
axogenesis of GCs and retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). Although type IV collagen 
is reported to control axon targeting by regulating the concentration gradient 
of an axonal guidance molecule Slit, Slit overexpression did not affect the GC 
axons. The structure of the BM surrounding the tectum and dorsal hindbrain was 
disorganized in the col4a5 and col4a6 mutants. Moreover, the abnormal axogenesis 
of the caudolateral GCs and the RGCs was coupled with aberrant BM structures in 
the type IV collagen mutants. The regrowth of GC axons after experimental 
ablation revealed that the original and newly formed axons displayed similar 
branching and extension abnormalities in the col4a6 mutants. These results 
collectively suggest that type IV collagen controls GC axon formation by 
regulating the integrity of the BM, which provides axons with the correct path 
to their targets.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1005587
PMCID: PMC4599943
PMID: 26451951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


17. Econ Hum Biol. 2015 Dec;19:258-64. doi: 10.1016/j.ehb.2015.09.006. Epub 2015
Sep  28.

Socioeconomic development and secular trend in height in China.

Zong XN(1), Li H(2), Wu HH(1), Zhang YQ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Growth and Development, Capital Institute of Pediatrics, No. 2 
Yabao Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100020, China.
(2)Department of Growth and Development, Capital Institute of Pediatrics, No. 2 
Yabao Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100020, China. Electronic address: 
huiligrowth@163.com.

The objective of this study was to examine the effect of socioeconomic 
development on secular trend in height among children and adolescents in China. 
Body height and spermarcheal/menarcheal ages were obtained from two periodic 
large-scale national representative surveys in China between 1975 and 2010. 
Chinese socioeconomic development indicators were obtained from the United 
Nations world population prospects. The effects of plausible determinants were 
assessed by partial least-squares regression. The average height of children and 
adolescents improved in tandem with socioeconomic development, without any 
tendency to plateau. The increment of height trend presented larger around 
puberty than earlier or later ages. The partial least-squares regressions with 
gross national income, life expectancy and spermarcheal/menarcheal age accounted 
for increment of height trend from 88.3% to 98.3% for males and from 82.9% to 
97.3% for females in adolescence. Further, through the analysis of the variable 
importance for projection, the contributions of gross national income and life 
expectancy on height increment were confirmed to be significant in childhood and 
adolescence, and the contribution of spermarcheal/menarcheal age was superior to 
both of them in adolescence. We concluded that positive secular trend in height 
in China was significantly associated with socioeconomic status (GNI as 
indicator) and medical and health conditions (life expectancy as indicator). 
Earlier onset of spermarche and menarche proved to be an important role in 
larger increment of the trend over time of height at puberty for a population.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ehb.2015.09.006
PMID: 26452198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Popul Stud (Camb). 2015;69(3):317-35. doi: 10.1080/00324728.2015.1074268.
Epub  2015 Oct 9.

Statistically tested comparisons of the accuracy of forecasting methods for 
age-specific and sex-specific mortality and life expectancy.

Shang HL(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)a Australian National University.
(2)b University of Southampton.

Although there are continuing developments in the methods for forecasting 
mortality, there are few comparisons of the accuracy of the forecasts. The 
subject of the statistical validity of these comparisons, which is essential to 
demographic forecasting, has all but been ignored. We introduce Friedman's test 
statistics to examine whether the differences in point and interval forecast 
accuracies are statistically significant between methods. We introduce the 
Nemenyi test statistic to identify which methods give results that are 
statistically significantly different from others. Using sex-specific and 
age-specific data from 20 countries, we apply these two test statistics to 
examine the forecast accuracy obtained from several principal component methods, 
which can be categorized into coherent and non-coherent forecasting methods.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.2015.1074268
PMID: 26452306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Internist (Berl). 2015 Dec;56(12):1445-57. doi: 10.1007/s00108-015-3791-z.

[Current prevention and treatment strategies for osteoporosis. 
Fracture-oriented, effective, low side effects and inexpensive].

[Article in German]

Bartl R(1), Bartl C(2).

Author information:
(1)Osteoporosezentrum am Dom, Kaufingerstr. 15, 80331, München, Deutschland. 
reiner.bartl@osteologie-online.de.
(2)Osteoporosezentrum am Dom, Kaufingerstr. 15, 80331, München, Deutschland.

Osteoporosis is still an underdiagnosed and insufficiently therapied widespread 
disease in Germany. Of the estimated 7 million osteoporosis patients only 1.5 
million receive a guideline conform diagnosis and even less receive appropriate 
treatment. Some 90 % of patients are provided with analgesics but only 10 % 
receive an effective therapy, although efficacious, well-tested and affordable 
medications are available. In addition, approximately one half of the patients 
terminate treatment after only 1 year although according to the results of 
recent studies the duration of therapy should be at least 3-5 years. In view of 
the increasing average life expectancy, a consistent management for prevention 
of fractures associated with osteoporosis is always most important for society, 
even if only for reasons of costs. Achievement of this target depends on four 
circumstances: clarification of the origin of osteoporosis and fractures (bone 
consciousness), prophylaxis of bone loss and fractures (primary prevention), 
consistent guideline conform diagnostics and therapy (secondary and tertiary 
prevention) and cooperation of all disciplines in medicine (bone is everybody's 
business). This article describes the current state of diagnostics (bone density 
measurement with dual X-ray absorptiometry, FRAX®), prophylaxis of fractures 
(screening program) and therapy (use of economic and effective medications with 
low side effects). Novel medications are already undergoing clinical testing and 
a "healing" of bone reduction with restoration of the normal bone structure is 
to be expected.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-015-3791-z
PMID: 26452578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. J Med Philos. 2015 Dec;40(6):621-32. doi: 10.1093/jmp/jhv028. Epub 2015 Oct
8.

Taming Our Brave New World.

Reagan JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Rice University, Houston, Texas, USA joshua.a.reagan@rice.edu.

Advances in reproductive technology have already revolutionized our culture in 
various ways, and future potential developments, particularly in genetics, 
promise more of the same. The practice of surrogacy threatens to upend the way 
we understand the family. Germline engineering of human embryos could, among 
other things, lead to the treatment of genetic diseases hitherto incurable; but 
the widespread use of such engineering could have broader ramifications for our 
culture, for better and for worse. Parents may eventually be able to select for 
desirable traits in their offspring, whether by genetic modification at 
conception or by choosing to implant one of several genetically profiled 
embryos. Authors in this issue of The Journal of Medicine and Philosophy address 
some of the ethical implications of these technological and cultural changes.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press, on behalf of the 
Journal of Medicine and Philosophy Inc. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jmp/jhv028
PMID: 26453080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. J Med Econ. 2016;19(2):181-92. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2015.1106546. Epub 2015
Nov  11.

Cost-effectiveness of daclatasvir plus sofosbuvir-based regimen for treatment of 
hepatitis C virus genotype 3 infection in Canada.

Moshyk A(1), Martel MJ(1), Tahami Monfared AA(1), Goeree R(2).

Author information:
(1)a a BMS Canada, Market Access and Public Affairs , Saint-Laurent, Quebec , 
Canada.
(2)b b Goeree Consulting and Professor Emeritus, McMaster University , Hamilton 
, Ontario , Canada.

OBJECTIVE: New regimens for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) 
genotype 3 have demonstrated substantial improvement in sustained virologic 
response (SVR) compared with existing therapies, but are considerably more 
expensive. The objective of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
two novel all-oral, interferon-free regimens for the treatment of patients with 
HCV genotype 3: daclatasvir plus sofosbuvir (DCV + SOF) and sofosbuvir plus 
ribavirin (SOF + RBV), from a Canadian health-system perspective.
METHODS: A decision analytic Markov model was developed to compare the effect of 
various treatment strategies on the natural history of the disease and their 
associated costs in treatment-naïve and treatment-experienced patients. Patients 
were initially distributed across fibrosis stages F0-F4, and may incur disease 
progression through fibrosis stages and on to end-stage liver disease 
complications and death; or may achieve SVR. Clinical efficacy, health-related 
quality-of-life, costs, and transition probabilities were based on published 
literature. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis was performed to assess parameter 
uncertainty associated with the analysis.
RESULTS: In treatment-naive patients, the expected quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) for interferon-free regimens were higher for DCV + SOF (12.37) and 
SOF + RBV (12.48) compared to that of pINF + RBV (11.71) over a lifetime 
horizon, applying their clinical trial treatment durations. The expected costs 
were higher for DCV + SOF ($170,371) and SOF + RBV ($194,776) vs pINF + RBV 
regimen ($90,905). Compared to pINF + RBV, the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios (ICER) were $120,671 and $135,398 per QALYs for DCV + SOF and SOF + RBV, 
respectively. In treatment-experienced patients, DCV + SOF regimen dominated the 
SOF + RBV regimen. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated a 100% 
probability that a DCV + SOF regimen was cost saving in treatment-experienced 
patients.
CONCLUSION: Daclatasvir plus sofosbuvir is a safe and effective option for the 
treatment of chronic HCV genotype 3 patients. This regimen could be considered a 
cost-effective option following a first-line treatment of 
peg-interferon/ribavirin treatment experienced patients with HCV genotype-3 
infection.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2015.1106546
PMID: 26453248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Econ Entomol. 2015 Oct;108(5):2296-304. doi: 10.1093/jee/tov190. Epub 2015
Jul  6.

Yield Response to Mexican Rice Borer (Lepidoptera: Crambidae) Injury in 
Bioenergy and Conventional Sugarcane and Sorghum.

Vanweelden MT(1), Wilson BE(2), Beuzelin JM(3), Reagan TE, Way MO(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Louisiana State University Agricultural Center, 404 
Life Sciences Bldg., Baton Rouge, LA 70803. mvanwe2@lsu.edu.
(2)Department of Entomology, Louisiana State University Agricultural Center, 404 
Life Sciences Bldg., Baton Rouge, LA 70803.
(3)Dean Lee Research Station, Louisiana State University Agricultural Center, 
8105 Tom Bowman Dr., Alexandria, LA 71302.
(4)Texas A&M AgriLife Research and Extension Center at Beaumont, Texas A&M 
University System, 1509 Aggie Dr., Beaumont, TX 77713.

The Mexican rice borer, Eoreuma loftini (Dyar) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae) is an 
invasive stem borer of sugarcane, Saccharum spp., and sorghum, Sorghum bicolor 
(L.), and poses a threat against the production of dedicated bioenergy 
feedstocks in the U.S. Gulf Coast region. A 2-yr field study was conducted in 
Jefferson County, TX, to evaluate yield losses associated with E. loftini 
feeding on bioenergy and conventional cultivars of sugarcane and sorghum under 
natural and artificially established E. loftini infestations. Bioenergy 
sugarcane (energycane) 'L 79-1002' and 'Ho 02-113' and sweet sorghum 'M81E' 
exhibited reduced E. loftini injury; however, these cultivars, along with 
high-biomass sorghum cultivar 'ES 5140', sustained greater losses in fresh stalk 
weight. Negative impacts to sucrose concentration from E. loftini injury were 
greatest in energycane, high-biomass sorghum, and sweet sorghum cultivars. Even 
under heavy E. loftini infestations, L 79-1002, Ho 02-113, and 'ES 5200' were 
estimated to produce more ethanol than all other cultivars under suppressed 
infestations. ES 5200, Ho 02-113, and L 79-1002 hold the greatest potential as 
dedicated bioenergy crops for production of ethanol in the Gulf Coast region; 
however, E. loftini management practices will need to be continued to mitigate 
yield losses.

© The Authors 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/tov190
PMID: 26453718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. J Med Philos. 2015 Dec;40(6):696-713. doi: 10.1093/jmp/jhv027. Epub 2015 Oct
9.

The Ethics of Human Life Extension: The Second Argument from Evolution.

Gyngell C(1).

Author information:
(1)Australian National University, Canberra, Australia 
Christopher.gyngell@philosophy.ox.ac.uk.

One argument that is sometimes made against pursuing radical forms of human life 
extension is that such interventions will make the species less evolvable, which 
would be morally undesirable. In this article, I discuss the empirical and 
evaluative claims of this argument. I argue that radical increases in life 
expectancy could, in principle, reduce the evolutionary potential of human 
populations through both biological and cultural mechanisms. I further argue 
that if life extension did reduce the evolvability of the species, this will be 
undesirable for three reasons: (1) it may increase the species' susceptibility 
to extinction risks, (2) it may adversely affect institutions and practices that 
promote well-being, and (3) it may impede moral progress.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press, on behalf of the 
Journal of Medicine and Philosophy Inc. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jmp/jhv027
PMID: 26453907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2016 Jan 1;94(1):31-39. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2015.07.2291. Epub 2015 Aug 3.

Fractionation of Palliative Radiation Therapy for Bone Metastases in Ontario: Do 
Practice Guidelines Guide Practice?

Ashworth A(1), Kong W(2), Chow E(3), Mackillop WJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Care and Epidemiology, Queen's Cancer Research Institute, 
Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada; Cancer Center of Southeastern 
Ontario, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Division of Cancer Care and Epidemiology, Queen's Cancer Research Institute, 
Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Sunnybrook Regional Cancer Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Division of Cancer Care and Epidemiology, Queen's Cancer Research Institute, 
Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada; Cancer Center of Southeastern 
Ontario, Kingston, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: 
william.mackillop@krcc.on.ca.

Comment in
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2016 Jan 1;94(1):48-50.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of a provincial practice guideline on the 
fractionation of palliative radiation therapy for bone metastases (PRT.B) in 
Ontario.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: The present retrospective study used electronic treatment 
records linked to Ontario's population-based cancer registry. Hierarchical 
multivariable regression analysis was used to evaluate temporal trends in the 
use of single fractions (SFs), controlling for patient-related factors 
associated with the use of SFs.
RESULTS: From 1984 to 2012, 43.9% of 161,835 courses of PRT.B were administered 
as SFs. The percentage of SF courses was greater for older patients (age <50 
years, 39.8% vs age >80 years, 52.5%), those with a shorter life expectancy 
(survival >12 months, 36.9% vs < 1 month, 53.6%), and those who lived farther 
from a radiation therapy center (<10 km, 42.1% vs > 50 km, 47.3%). The 
percentage of SFs to spinal fields was lower than that to other skeletal sites 
(31.5% vs 57.1%). The percentage of SFs varied among the cancer centers (range, 
26.0%-67.8%). These differences were all highly significant in the multivariable 
analysis (P<.0001). In 2004, Cancer Care Ontario released a practice guideline 
endorsing the use of SFs for uncomplicated bone metastases. The rate of use of 
SFs increased from 42.3% in the pre-guideline period (1999-2003) to 52.6% in the 
immediate post-guideline period (2004-2007). However, it subsequently decreased 
again to 44.0% (2009-2012). These temporal trends were significant after 
controlling for patient-related factors in the multivariable analysis (P<.0001). 
Large intercenter variations in the use of SFs persisted after publication of 
the guideline.
CONCLUSIONS: The publication of an Ontario practice guideline endorsing the use 
of SF PRT.B was associated with only a transient increase in the use of SFs in 
Ontario and did little to reduce intercenter variations in fractionation.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2015.07.2291
PMID: 26454681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Zhongguo Xiu Fu Chong Jian Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2014 Jun;28(6):687-92.

[TOTAL KNEE ARTHROPLASTY IN YOUNG PATIENTS WITH OSTEOARTHRITIS].

[Article in Chinese]

Li Y, Li Zijian, Zhang K.

OBJECTIVE: To review the current situation of total knee arthroplasty (TKA) used 
in young patients with osteoarthritis.
METHODS: The recent literature in the treatment of osteoarthritis with TKA in 
young patients was extensively reviewed. The characteristics, curative effect, 
and postoperative satisfaction degree of TKA in young patients were analyzed and 
summarized.
RESULTS: Young patients have longer life expectancy and higher activity, which 
may lead to much higher expectation of the TKA. Comparing with elderly patients, 
young patients obtain equal or better effectiveness after TKA, but they are 
likely to not be satisfied with the effects because of low survival rate of the 
prosthesis. At present, continuous development of implant design, prosthesis 
material, and operation technique are in progress to reduce wear, hence to 
prolong the implant survivorship so as to meet the desire of young patients. 
However, the studies of the big samples and long-term follow-up are required to 
confirm the clinical advantages of such developments.
CONCLUSION: With the trend of TKA in young patients, surgeons should have a good 
understanding of the patients' demands, select suitable prosthesis and give 
appropriate preoperative

PMID: 26455218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Expert Rev Clin Pharmacol. 2016;9(1):81-9. doi:
10.1586/17512433.2016.1100074.  Epub 2015 Oct 10.

New drugs and patient-centred end-points in old age: setting the wheels in 
motion.

Mangoni AA(1), Pilotto A(2).

Author information:
(1)a Discipline of Clinical Pharmacology, School of Medicine , Flinders 
University and Flinders Medical Centre , Bedford Park , Australia.
(2)b Department of Orthogeriatrics, Rehabilitation and Stabilization, Frailty 
Area , E.O. Galliera Hospital, National Relevance and High Specialization 
Hospital , Genova , Italy.

Older patients with various degrees of frailty and disability, a key population 
target of pharmacological interventions in acute and chronic disease states, are 
virtually neglected in pre-marketing studies assessing the efficacy and safety 
of investigational drugs. Moreover, aggressively pursuing established 
therapeutic targets in old age, e.g. blood pressure, serum glucose or 
cholesterol concentrations, is not necessarily associated with the beneficial 
effects, and the acceptable safety, reported in younger patient cohorts. 
Measures of self-reported health and functional status might represent 
additional, more meaningful, therapeutic end-points in the older population, 
particularly in patients with significant frailty and relatively short life 
expectancy, e.g. in the presence of cancer and/or neurodegenerative disease 
conditions. Strategies enhancing early knowledge about key pharmacological 
characteristics of investigational drugs targeting older adults are discussed, 
together with the rationale for incorporating non-traditional, patient-centred, 
end-points in this ever-increasing group.

DOI: 10.1586/17512433.2016.1100074
PMID: 26455964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Aust Health Rev. 2016 Jun;40(3):235-243. doi: 10.1071/AH14150.

A system dynamics modelling approach to studying the increasing prevalence of 
people with intellectual developmental disorders in New South Wales.

Lee L(1), Heffernan M(2), McDonnell G(3), Short SD(4), Naganathan V(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine Sydney, University of Notre Dame Australia, 160 Oxford 
Street, Darlinghurst, NSW 2010, Australia.
(2)Dynamic Operations, 5/10 Surfview Road, Mona Vale, NSW 2103, Australia. 
Email.
(3)Australian Institute of Health Innovation, AGSM Building, UNSW Australia, 
Kensington, NSW 2052, Australia. Email.
(4)Discipline of Behavioural and Social Sciences in Health, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, University of Sydney, Lidcombe, NSW 2141, Australia. Email.
(5)Centre for Education and Research on Ageing, University of Sydney, Concord 
Hospital, Concord, NSW 2139, Australia. Email.

Objective The aims of this study were to estimate the prevalence count of people 
with intellectual developmental disorders (IDD) in New South Wales (NSW) in 
2003, by age groups, and to forecast their prevalence until 2043. Methods 
Administrative data obtained from NSW government departments of education, 
pensions, health and disability were used to profile the number of people whose 
characteristics met the criteria for 'intellectual developmental disorders' who 
had received services in 2003. These figures were compared with published tables 
of NSW data from the national self-report Survey of Disability, Ageing and 
Carers (SDAC) of 2003 to estimate the likely prevalence of people with 
intellectual developmental disorders, by age groups in that year. The results 
were then used as baseline figures in a computational system dynamics model of 
the aging chain of people with these disorders, built to project prevalence to 
2043. Results The number of people who met the criteria for having intellectual 
developmental disorder in NSW in 2003 was estimated to be 57000 (a ratio of 85 
per 10000), with 32000 aged 0-15 years, 15000 aged 16-39 years, 9000 aged 40-64 
years and 1000 aged 65+ years. Using these figures as baseline, the computer 
simulation predicted a total increase to 77225 people in 2013 and 135905 people 
by 2043. By 2043, the number of children with intellectual developmental 
disorders will have doubled, from 32000 to 59480, and the number of adults will 
have tripled, from 25000 to 76420. Conclusions This modelling technique forecast 
an increase in the prevalence count of people with intellectual developmental 
disorders in NSW over the period 2003-43 from 57000 (85 per 10000) to 135905 
(135 per 10000). These predictions may have important implications for the 
planning of specialist health services for this group of people. What is known 
about the topic? The prevalence ratio of people with intellectual developmental 
disorders is quoted at lying between 1% and 2% of the Australian population, 
depending on the definition adopted. It is known that life expectancy for this 
group of people is increasing. Many people with intellectual developmental 
disorders have multiple service demands and there is a need to understand the 
prevalence count in various age groups in order to plan effectively for their 
health service needs. What does this paper add? This paper confirms a NSW 
prevalence ratio of people with intellectual developmental disorders of 
approximately 0.85% for the purposes of specialist health service planning at 
the beginning of the 21st century, and this is predicted to increase to 1.35% 
over a 40-year period. The paper demonstrates that there will be significant 
growth in the number of adults surviving to old age between 2003 and 2043. What 
are the implications for practitioners? It is known that as people with 
intellectual developmental disorders age, their health promoting care needs 
increase, as do their dependencies on special supports. Planning for the 
allocation of resources associated with the welfare and healthcare of people 
with intellectual developmental disorders may need to be focused on this 
anticipated increase in the number of older people with the condition.

DOI: 10.1071/AH14150
PMID: 26456551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Eur Urol. 2016 Jun;69(6):e128. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2015.09.043. Epub 2015
Oct  9.

Re: Jesse D. Sammon, Firas Abdollah, Anthony D'Amico, et al. Predicting Life 
Expectancy in Men Diagnosed with Prostate Cancer. Eur Urol 2015;68:756-65.

Froehner M(1), Koch R(2), Wirth MP(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospital "Carl Gustav Carus," Technische 
Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany. Electronic address: 
Michael.Froehner@uniklinikum-dresden.de.
(2)Department of Medical Statistics and Biometry, University Hospital "Carl 
Gustav Carus," Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(3)Department of Urology, University Hospital "Carl Gustav Carus," Technische 
Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany.

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2016 Jun;69(6):e129.

Comment on
    Eur Urol. 2015 Nov;68(5):756-65.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2015.09.043
PMID: 26456682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. COPD. 2015;12(5):575-81. doi: 10.3109/15412555.2015.1008694. Epub 2015 Aug 4.

Does Improving Exercise Capacity and Daily Activity Represent the Holistic 
Perspective of a New COPD Approach?

Di Marco F(1), Santus P(2), Sotgiu G(3), Blasi F(4), Centanni S(1).

Author information:
(1)a Respiratory Unit, Ospedale San Paolo, Dept of Scienze della Salute , 
Università degli Studi di Milano , Milan , Italy.
(2)b Respiratory Unit Fondazione Salvatore Maugeri-Istituto Scientifico di 
Milano - IRCCS , Università degli Studi di Milano , Milan , Italy.
(3)c Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Statistics Unit, Dept of Biomedical 
Sciences , University of Sassari - Research, Medical Education and Professional 
Development Unit , AOU Sassari , Italy.
(4)d Respiratory Unit, IRCCS Fondazione Cà Granda Milano, Department of 
Pathophysiology and Transplantation , University of Milan , Milan , Italy.

In COPD patients a reduced daily activity has been well documented, resulting 
from both respiratory and non-respiratory manifestations of the disease. An 
evaluation by multisensory armband has confirmed that daily physical activity is 
mainly associated with dynamic hyperinflation, regardless of COPD severity. This 
aspect is crucial, since exercise capacity is closely correlated to life 
expectancy. Notwithstanding the causal key role of lung impairment in the 
patient's symptoms, some authors have suggested that other factors, such as 
systemic inflammation and co-morbidities, have an important role, particularly 
as mortality risk factors. Many studies suggest the efficacy of bronchodilators 
and rehabilitation in improving exercise capacity, and, speaking in terms of 
daily life, in increasing the number of days in which patients are able to 
perform their usual activities. On this evidence, the first aim in the 
management of COPD should be to improve exercise capacity and daily activity 
since these outcomes have direct effects on patients' quality of life, 
co-morbidities (heart and metabolic diseases), and prognosis. Thus, improving 
physical activity represents a modern approach aimed at dealing with both 
pulmonary and systemic manifestations of the disease. It is however worth of 
notice to remember that in patients affected by COPD the relationship between 
the improvement of "potential" exercise capacity and daily physical activity has 
been found to be only moderate to weak. Obtaining a significant behavior 
modification with regard to daily physical activity, together with the 
optimization of therapy thus represents currently the true challenge.

DOI: 10.3109/15412555.2015.1008694
PMID: 26457460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Oct 12;2015(10):CD001329. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD001329.pub2.

Lactational amenorrhoea method for family planning.

Van der Wijden C(1), Manion C.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Research in Extramural Medicine, VU University Medical Center, 
Amsterdam, Netherlands.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2003;(4):CD001329.

BACKGROUND: It is estimated that about 40% of pregnancies in the world are 
unintended and that the major part of these are unwanted. There are several 
reasons no or ineffective contraception is used to prevent these pregnancies, 
including difficulty in obtaining contraceptives. The lactational amenorrhoea 
method (LAM) is a contraceptive method where the mother is informed and 
supported in how to use breastfeeding for contraception. LAM is available and 
accessible to many women.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness of LAM, as defined in the 1988 Bellagio 
Consensus statement, as a contraceptive method in fully breastfeeding women, who 
remain amenorrheic, using pregnancy and menstruation life tables.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, POPLINE, and LILACS to 10 October 
2014; reference lists of studies; review articles; books related to LAM; 
published abstracts from breastfeeding, reproductive health conferences; e-mails 
with study coordinators.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Out of 459 potentially relevant studies, 159 investigated 
the risk of pregnancy during LAM or lactational amenorrhoea. Our inclusion 
criteria were as follows: prospective study; cases (intervention group) and, if 
available, controls, had to be sexually active; pregnancy had to be confirmed by 
physical examination or a pregnancy test. Our endpoints were life table 
menstruation rates and life table pregnancy rates. We included 15 studies 
reporting on 11 intervention groups and three control groups. We identified one 
additional uncontrolled study in the 2007 update and one additional controlled 
study in this 2015 update.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently extracted data, 
resolving disagreements through discussion. We analysed the studies using 
narrative methods because of their heterogeneity.
MAIN RESULTS: For the primary outcome, pregnancy, two controlled studies of LAM 
users reported life table pregnancy rates at six months of 0.45% and 2.45%, one 
controlled study reported 5% pregnancies in the absence of life table rates per 
month, and eight uncontrolled studies of LAM users reported pregnancy rates of 
0% to 7.5%. Life table pregnancy rates for fully breastfeeding women who were 
amenorrheic but not using any contraceptive method were 0.88% in one study and 
0.9% to 1.2% (95% confidence interval 0.0 to 2.4) in a second study, depending 
on the definition of menstruation used. The life table menstruation rate at six 
months in all studies varied between 11.1% and 39.4%.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: We found no clear differences in life table pregnancy 
rates between women using LAM and being supported in doing so, and fully 
breastfeeding amenorrheic women not using any method. As the length of lactation 
amenorrhoea in women using LAM differed greatly between the populations studied, 
and was population specific, it is uncertain whether LAM extends lactational 
amenorrhoea.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD001329.pub2
PMCID: PMC6823189
PMID: 26457821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None


31. J Radiol Prot. 2015 Dec;35(4):763-75. doi: 10.1088/0952-4746/35/4/763. Epub
2015  Oct 12.

Calculating disability-adjusted life years (DALY) as a measure of excess cancer 
risk following radiation exposure.

Shimada K(1), Kai M.

Author information:
(1)Japan Atomic Energy Agency, 2-4 Shirakata Shirane, Tokaimura, Nakagun, 
319-1195 Ibaraki Prefecture, Japan.

This paper has proposed that disability-adjusted life year (DALY) can be used as 
a measure of radiation health risk. DALY is calculated as the sum of years of 
life lost (YLL) and years lived with disability (YLD). This multidimensional 
concept can be expressed as a risk index without a probability measure to avoid 
the misuse of the current radiation detriment at low doses. In this study, we 
calculated YLL and YLD using Japanese population data by gender. DALY for all 
cancers in Japan per 1 Gy per person was 0.84 year in men and 1.34 year in 
women. The DALY for all cancers in the Japanese baseline was 4.8 in men and 3.5 
in women. When we calculated the ICRP detriment from the same data, DALYs for 
the cancer sites were similar to the radiation detriment in the cancer sites, 
excluding leukemia, breast and thyroid cancer. These results suggested that the 
ICRP detriment overestimate the weighting fraction of leukemia risk and 
underestimate the weighting fraction of breast and thyroid cancer. A big 
advantage over the ICRP detriment is that DALY can calculate the risk components 
for non-fatal diseases without the data of lethality. This study showed that 
DALY is a practical tool that can compare many types of diseases encountered in 
public health.

DOI: 10.1088/0952-4746/35/4/763
PMID: 26458231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. J Cancer Res Ther. 2015 Jul-Sep;11(3):655. doi: 10.4103/0973-1482.143348.

Apropos of a case of cutaneous metastasis from laryngeal cancer with review of 
literature.

Trehan R, Pandey AK, Khosla D(1), Dimri K, Punia RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy and Oncology, Government Medical College and 
Hospital, Chandigarh, India.

Cutaneous metastasis from laryngeal carcinoma is a rare occurrence. A 
55-year-old male patient with supraglottic cancer was treated with concurrent 
chemoradiation. Eighteen months later, he presented with ulceroproliferative 
growth on dorsum of the right hand. Biopsy revealed metastatic squamous cell 
carcinoma. Further investigations revealed underlying bone destruction with lung 
metastasis. In view of poor general condition and widespread dissemination of 
disease, palliative radiotherapy was delivered to the hand of the patient. He 
achieved satisfactory palliation in form of pain relief, control of bleeding, 
and discharge. The present report serves to emphasize the importance of properly 
diagnosing metastatic spread to unusual sites. Such metastasis is rare and is 
associated with a poor prognosis. Treatment is usually aimed at providing pain 
relief in these patients with limited life expectancy. Hence, we present a case 
of extensive cutaneous metastasis from laryngeal carcinoma with review of the 
literature.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-1482.143348
PMID: 26458649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. BMC Med. 2015 Oct 13;13:236. doi: 10.1186/s12916-015-0452-y.

Extending the elderly- and risk-group programme of vaccination against seasonal 
influenza in England and Wales: a cost-effectiveness study.

Baguelin M(1)(2), Camacho A(3), Flasche S(4), Edmunds WJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Diseases Department, Public Health England, London, UK. 
marc.baguelin@phe.gov.uk.
(2)Centre for the Mathematical Modelling of Infectious Diseases, Department of 
Infectious Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 
Keppel Street, London, UK. marc.baguelin@phe.gov.uk.
(3)Centre for the Mathematical Modelling of Infectious Diseases, Department of 
Infectious Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 
Keppel Street, London, UK. anton.camacho@lshtm.ac.uk.
(4)Centre for the Mathematical Modelling of Infectious Diseases, Department of 
Infectious Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 
Keppel Street, London, UK. stefan.flasche@lshtm.ac.uk.
(5)Centre for the Mathematical Modelling of Infectious Diseases, Department of 
Infectious Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 
Keppel Street, London, UK. john.edmunds@lshtm.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: The present study aims to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
extending the pre-2013 influenza immunisation programme for high-risk and 
elderly individuals to those at low risk of developing complications following 
infection with seasonal influenza.
METHODS: We performed an economic evaluation comparing different extensions of 
the pre-2013 influenza programme to seven possible age groups of low-risk 
individuals (aged 2-4 years, 50-64 years, 5-16 years, 2-4 and 50-64 years, 2-16 
years, 2-16 and 50-64 years, and 2-64 years). These extensions are evaluated 
incrementally on four base scenarios (no vaccination, risk group only with 
coverage as observed between 1995 and 2009, risk group and 65+, and risk group 
with 75% coverage and 65+). Impact of vaccination is assessed using a 
transmission model built and parameterised from a previously published study. 
The study population is all individuals of all ages in England and Wales 
representing an average total of 52.6 million people over 14 influenza seasons 
(1995-2009).
RESULTS: The influenza programme (risk group and elderly) prior to 2013 is 
likely to be cost effective (incremental cost effectiveness ratio: 7,475 £/QALY, 
net benefit: 253 M£ [15-829]). Extension to any one of the low-risk target 
groups defined earlier is likely to be cost-effective. However, strategies that 
do not include vaccination of school-aged children are less likely to be 
cost-effective. The most efficient strategy is extension to the 5-16 year age 
group while universal vaccination (extension to all low-risk individuals over 2 
years) will achieve the highest net benefit. While extension to the 2-16 year 
age group is likely to be very cost effective, the cost-effectiveness of 
extensions beyond 2-16 years is very uncertain. Extension to the 5-16 year age 
group would likely remain cost-effective even without herd immunity effects to 
other age groups. As our study includes a strong historical component, our 
results depend on the efficacy of the influenza vaccine remaining at levels 
similar to the ones achieved in the past over a long-period of time (assumed to 
vary between 28% and 70% depending of the circulating strains and age groups).
CONCLUSIONS: Making use of surveillance data from over a decade in conjunction 
with a dynamic model, we find that vaccination of children in the United Kingdom 
is likely to be highly cost-effective, not only for their own benefit but also 
to reduce the disease burden in the rest of the community.

DOI: 10.1186/s12916-015-0452-y
PMCID: PMC4604076
PMID: 26459265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Pediatrics. 2015 Nov;136(5):e1377-81. doi: 10.1542/peds.2015-0684. Epub 2015
Oct  12.
