Oregon State University, 15210 NE Miley Rd., Aurora, OR 97002.
(3)USDA-ARS, Horticultural Crops Research Unit, 3420 NW Orchard Ave., Corvallis, 
OR 97330. Current address: DuPont Pioneer, 7300 NW 62nd Ave., PO Box 1004, 
Johnston, IA 50131.

Drosophila suzukii Matsumura (Diptera: Drosophilidae) has caused significant 
economic damage to berry and stone fruit production regions. Markers that are 
systemic in plants and easily transferred to target organisms are needed to 
track D. suzukii exploitation of host resources and trophic interactions. High 
and low concentrations of the trace element, rubidium (Rb), and the stable 
isotope, 15N, were tested to mark D. suzukii larvae feeding on fruits of 
enriched strawberry plants grown in containers under greenhouse conditions. Fly 
marker content and proportion of flies marked 1, 7, and 14 d after emergence 
from enriched fruits and fly dry mass were analyzed. Nearly 100% of the flies 
analyzed 14 d after emerging from 15N-enriched plants were marked, whereas only 
30-75% and 0-3% were marked 14 d after emerging from high and low Rb 
concentration plants, respectively. Rapid Rb decay, strong 15N persistence, and 
the economics of using these markers in the field to elucidate D. suzukii pest 
ecology are discussed.

© The Authors 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/tov007
PMID: 26470275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. J Econ Entomol. 2015 Aug;108(4):1466-78. doi: 10.1093/jee/tov187. Epub 2015
Jul  2.

Demography and Population Projection of Aphis fabae (Hemiptera: Aphididae): with 
Additional Comments on Life Table Research Criteria.

Akca I(1), Ayvaz T(2), Yazici E(2), Smith CL(3), Chi H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, Ondokuz Mayis 
University, Samsun 55139, Turkey. Agrobigen Ltd. Co., Samsun Technopark, Ondokuz 
Mayis University, 55200 Samsun Turkey.
(2)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, Ondokuz Mayis 
University, Samsun 55139, Turkey.
(3)Georgia Museum of Natural History, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602.
(4)Department of Entomology, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, 
Republic of China. hsinchi@dragon.nchu.edu.tw.

We collected developmental, survival, and reproduction data for Aphis fabae 
Scopoli (Hemiptera: Aphididae) reared on faba bean, Vicia faba L. 'Sevilla' at 
four constant temperatures (15, 20, 25, and 30°C), 70% relative humidity, and a 
photoperiod of 16:8 (L:D) h. The highest intrinsic rate of increase 
(r = 0.4347 d(-1)) and finite rate (λ = 1.5445 d(-1)) were observed at 25°C. The 
population projection based on the age-stage, two-sex life table quantitatively 
revealed the growth potential and stage structure of the aphid. We have included 
the following suggestions to aid researchers in life table studies: 1) The 
bootstrap method should be used to estimate the variance and SEs of 
developmental time, survival rate, fecundity, and population parameters. 2) The 
required number of bootstraps is dependent on the life table data--the higher 
the variation among individuals, the higher the number of bootstraps should be. 
In most cases, we suggest that 100,000 bootstraps should be used to obtain a 
stable estimate of variance and SEs. 3) Computer projection based on the 
age-stage, two-sex life table should be used to reveal the stage structure 
during population growth. 4) We used a simple equation based on the total 
fecundity, survival rate to adult stage, and first reproductive age to detect 
possible errors in life table parameters. 5) To assist readers in comprehending 
results, life table studies should include the cohort size, preadult survival 
rate, number of emerged female adults, mean fecundity, survival and fecundity 
curves, and population parameters.

© The Authors 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/tov187
PMID: 26470285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. J Econ Entomol. 2015 Aug;108(4):1675-82. doi: 10.1093/jee/tov154. Epub 2015
Jun  11.

A Comparative Study on the Population Fitness of Three Strains of Nilaparvata 
lugens (Hemiptera: Delphacidae) Differ in Eye Color-Related Genes.

Liu S(1), Yang B(2), Luo J(2), Tang J(2), Wu J(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Plant Protection, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou 225009, China. 
State Key Laboratory of Rice Biology, China National Rice Research Institute, 
Hangzhou 310000, China. jincaiwu1952@sina.com.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Rice Biology, China National Rice Research Institute, 
Hangzhou 310000, China.
(3)School of Plant Protection, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou 225009, China. 
jincaiwu1952@sina.com.

The brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens (Stål), is a destructive insect pest 
on rice throughout Asia. As a visible genetic marker, red eye mutant colony of 
brown planthopper is a valuable material. Here, we established the near-isogenic 
lines, NIL-BB and NIL-rr, through mating red eye females to brown eye brothers 
for eight successive generations. Biological experiments showed that NIL-BB had 
big fitness cost; however, NIL-rr had comparable survival and fertility 
parameters with BB, a normal laboratory brown planthopper strain. Significantly 
lower number eggs per female and egg hatchability were the key factors resulting 
in big fitness cost of NIL-BB. The population trend indexes of BB, NIL-rr, and 
NIL-BB were 52.18, 43.80, and 4.19, respectively. Real-time PCR study suggested 
that the poorer fertility of NIL-BB was not mediated by the differential 
expression of genes relating to oogenesis. The stronger fitness of NIL-rr 
compared with NIL-BB may be caused by the eye mutant gene or its closely linked 
genes having stronger compensation ability for reproduction. The comparable 
fitness of NIL-rr with BB indicated that NIL-rr may be used in field research. 
The NIL-BB strain with significantly declined fecundity and survival ability can 
be used as study model for the signal pathways relating to fecundity.

© The Authors 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/tov154
PMID: 26470308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. J Econ Entomol. 2015 Aug;108(4):1700-7. doi: 10.1093/jee/tov178. Epub 2015
Jul  8.

Comparison of Life Tables of Cheilomenes sexmaculata (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae) 
Under Laboratory and Greenhouse Conditions.

Zhao J(1), Li S(2), Gao XW(3), Zhang F(2), Wang S(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Plant & Environment Protection, Beijing Academy of Agriculture 
and Forestry Science, 9 Shu Guang Zhong Lu, Hai Dian, Beijing, 100097, China. 
Department of Entomology, College of Agronomy and Biotechnology, China 
Agricultural University, 2 Yuan MingYuan West Road, Hai Dian, Beijing, 100193, 
China. Institute of Plant Diseases and Pests, College of Weifang Science & 
Technology, 1299 Jin Guang street, Shouguang, Shandong province, 262700, China.
(2)Institute of Plant & Environment Protection, Beijing Academy of Agriculture 
and Forestry Science, 9 Shu Guang Zhong Lu, Hai Dian, Beijing, 100097, China.
(3)Department of Entomology, College of Agronomy and Biotechnology, China 
Agricultural University, 2 Yuan MingYuan West Road, Hai Dian, Beijing, 100193, 
China.
(4)Institute of Plant & Environment Protection, Beijing Academy of Agriculture 
and Forestry Science, 9 Shu Guang Zhong Lu, Hai Dian, Beijing, 100097, China. 
anthocoridae@163.com.

The ladybird Cheilomenes sexmaculata (F.) is an important aphidophagous predator 
in Asia. In order to mass rear predators for biological control, it is valuable 
to identify the features of populations that are affected by variations in field 
conditions. Life tables can provide comprehensive descriptions of the 
development, survival, and fecundity of a population. However, there are few 
life table studies of C. sexmaculata. Studies of life history have been carried 
out in many arthropods using the traditional female age-specific life table, 
which takes only female individuals into consideration, while the variations in 
developmental rates amongst individuals are ignored. In this paper, we 
constructed life tables for C. sexmaculata fed on Myzus persicae (Sulzer) both 
at constant temperature in the laboratory and fluctuating temperature in the 
greenhouse, and analyzed the data using the age-stage, two-sex life table. The 
bootstrap technique was used to estimate the standard errors of the population 
parameters. The results showed that preadult C. sexmaculata developed more 
slowly and had lower survival and reproductive rates under greenhouse 
conditions, as indicated by the curves of age-stage survival rate (s(xj)), 
age-stage-specific fecundity (f(x j)) of the female stage, age-specific 
fecundity (m(x)), and age-specific maternity (l(x)m(x)). Our results also showed 
that the intrinsic rate of increase (r), net reproductive rate (R(0)), and 
finite rate of increase (λ) under laboratory and greenhouse conditions were 
0.1668 d(-1) and 0.1027 d(-1), 192.1 and 53.0, and 1.1815 d(-1) and 
1.1082 d(-1), respectively. Our results revealed significantly different life 
table parameters for C. sexmaculata under laboratory and greenhouse conditions. 
This information will be useful for developing a successful mass-rearing program 
for C. sexmaculata for use in biological control.

© The Authors 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/tov178
PMID: 26470311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. J Econ Entomol. 2015 Aug;108(4):1786-94. doi: 10.1093/jee/tov160. Epub 2015
Jun  22.

Effects of Neonicotinoids and Crop Rotation for Managing Wireworms in Wheat 
Crops.

Esser AD(1), Milosavljević I(2), Crowder DW(2).

Author information:
(1)Washington State University Extension, 210 W Broadway, Ritzville, WA 99169. 
aarons@wsu.edu.
(2)Washington State University, Department of Entomology, 166 FSHN Bldg., 
Pullman, WA 99164.

Soil-dwelling insects are severe pests in many agroecosystems. These pests have 
cryptic life cycles, making sampling difficult and damage hard to anticipate. 
The management of soil insects is therefore often based on preventative 
insecticides applied at planting or cultural practices. Wireworms, the 
subterranean larvae of click beetles (Coleoptera: Elateridae), have re-emerged 
as problematic pests in cereal crops in the Pacific Northwestern United States. 
Here, we evaluated two management strategies for wireworms in long-term field 
experiments: 1) treating spring wheat seed with the neonicotinoid thiamethoxam 
and 2) replacing continuous spring wheat with a summer fallow and winter wheat 
rotation. Separate experiments were conducted for two wireworm species--Limonius 
californicus (Mannerheim) and Limonius infuscatus (Motschulsky). In the 
experiment with L. californicus, spring wheat yields and economic returns 
increased by 24-30% with neonicotinoid treatments. In contrast, in the 
experiment with L. infuscatus, spring wheat yields and economic returns did not 
increase with neonicotinoids despite an 80% reduction in wireworms. Thus, the 
usefulness of seed-applied neonicotinoids differed based on the wireworm species 
present. In experiments with both species, we detected significantly fewer 
wireworms with a no-till summer fallow and winter wheat rotation compared with 
continuous spring wheat. This suggests that switching from continuous spring 
wheat to a winter wheat and summer fallow rotation may aid in wireworm 
management. More generally, our results show that integrated management of 
soil-dwelling pests such as wireworms may require both preventative insecticide 
treatments and cultural practices.

© The Authors 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/tov160
PMID: 26470320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. World J Surg. 2016 Jan;40(1):14-20. doi: 10.1007/s00268-015-3271-6.

Surgery and Obstetric Care are Highly Cost-Effective Interventions in a 
Sub-Saharan African District Hospital: A Three-Month Single-Institution Study of 
Surgical Costs and Outcomes.

Roberts G, Roberts C, Jamieson A, Grimes C, Conn G, Bleichrodt R.

BACKGROUND: The Lancet recently sponsored a commission examining the role of 
surgery in global health. There is a paucity of published information on the 
cost-effectiveness of surgery in low- and middle-income countries, a key metric 
in the prioritisation of limited resources.
METHODS: All patients undergoing emergency laparotomy, elective and emergency 
inguinal hernia repair, elective and emergency caesarean section, amputation, 
fracture manipulation, or fracture fixation over a 3 months period in a single 
district African hospital were assessed. World Health Organisation global burden 
of disease (GBD) methodology was used to calculate the disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs) saved for each patient (using global and local life expectancy). 
Fully loaded costs were calculated for each patient’s care and providing the 
overall surgical service. Cost-effectiveness was calculated in year 2012 US$ per 
DALY saved for each procedure and overall.
RESULTS: A total of 428 patients were included, with an overall 
cost-effectiveness of $10.70 per DALY averted. The cost-effectiveness of 
individual procedures (global life expectancy) was: Amputation—$17.66; Emergency 
caesarean section—$7.42; Elective caesarean section—$20.50; Emergency 
laparotomy—$8.62; Elective hernia repair—$15.26; Emergency hernia repair—$4.36; 
Fracture/dislocation reduction—$69.03; Fracture/dislocation fixation—$225.89.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgery is a highly cost-effective healthcare measure in the 
setting of an African district hospital. The presented outcomes demonstrate that 
surgery is on a par with better-recognised and funded interventions such as HIV 
anti-retrovirals, malaria prevention and diarrhoea treatment. There are 
recognised limitations with the GBD methodology used here; however, this remains 
the best way to investigate the cost-effectiveness of health interventions. This 
study provides useful information on an, at present, under-studied field.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-015-3271-6
PMID: 26470700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. BMC Cancer. 2015 Oct 15;15:705. doi: 10.1186/s12885-015-1730-y.

Cost-effectiveness simulation and analysis of colorectal cancer screening in 
Hong Kong Chinese population: comparison amongst colonoscopy, guaiac and 
immunologic fecal occult blood testing.

Wong CK(1), Lam CL(2), Wan YF(2), Fong DY(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine and Primary Care, The University of Hong Kong, 
3/F, Ap Lei Chau Clinic, 161 Ap Lei Chau Main Street, Ap Lei Chau, Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong. carlosho@hku.hk.
(2)Department of Family Medicine and Primary Care, The University of Hong Kong, 
3/F, Ap Lei Chau Clinic, 161 Ap Lei Chau Main Street, Ap Lei Chau, Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong.
(3)School of Nursing, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Hong Kong.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of CRC 
screening strategies from the healthcare service provider perspective based on 
Chinese population.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to compare the cost-effectiveness of 
recommended screening strategies including annual/biennial guaiac fecal occult 
blood testing (G-FOBT), annual/biennial immunologic FOBT (I-FOBT), and 
colonoscopy every 10 years in Chinese aged 50 year over a 25-year period. 
External validity of model was tested against data retrieved from published 
randomized controlled trials of G-FOBT. Recourse use data collected from Chinese 
subjects among staging of colorectal neoplasm were combined with published unit 
cost data ($USD in 2009 price values) to estimate a stage-specific cost per 
patient. Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were quantified based on the stage 
duration and SF-6D preference-based value of each stage. The cost-effectiveness 
outcome was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) represented by costs 
per life-years (LY) and costs per QALYs gained.
RESULTS: In base-case scenario, the non-dominated strategies were annual and 
biennial I-FOBT. Compared with no screening, the ICER presented $20,542/LYs and 
$3155/QALYs gained for annual I-FOBT, and $19,838/LYs gained and $2976/QALYs 
gained for biennial I-FOBT. The optimal screening strategy was annual I-FOBT 
that attained the highest ICER at the threshold of $50,000 per LYs or QALYs 
gained.
CONCLUSION: The Markov model informed the health policymakers that I-FOBT every 
year may be the most effective and cost-effective CRC screening strategy among 
recommended screening strategies, depending on the willingness-to-pay of mass 
screening for Chinese population.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT02038283.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-015-1730-y
PMCID: PMC4608156
PMID: 26471036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Food Chem. 2016 Mar 1;194:391-8. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2015.07.147. Epub
2015  Aug 1.

Modified atmosphere packaging of precooked vegetables: effect on physicochemical 
properties and sensory quality.

Barbosa C(1), Alves MR(1), Rocha S(2), Oliveira MB(3).

Author information:
(1)IPVC-ESTG (Polytechnic Institute of Viana do Castelo - Escola Superior de 
Tecnologia e Gestão), Av. do Atlântico, s/n, 4900-908 Viana do Castelo, 
Portugal; REQUIMTE, Dep. Chemical Science, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of 
Porto, Rua Jorge Viterbo Ferreira, 228, 4050-313 Porto, Portugal.
(2)IPVC-ESTG (Polytechnic Institute of Viana do Castelo - Escola Superior de 
Tecnologia e Gestão), Av. do Atlântico, s/n, 4900-908 Viana do Castelo, 
Portugal.
(3)REQUIMTE, Dep. Chemical Science, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Porto, 
Rua Jorge Viterbo Ferreira, 228, 4050-313 Porto, Portugal. Electronic address: 
beatoliv@ff.up.pt.

This study aims at verifying the effect of three modified atmosphere packaging 
(MAP) conditions, all with high CO2 and residual or low O2 contents (%O2/%CO2: 
0/40; 2.5/40 and 2.5/60), on the quality preservation of several species of 
precooked vegetables (cabbage, carrots, green beans and bell peppers). The study 
was carried out for different storage periods (up to 28 days and 6 sampling 
periods). Physicochemical parameters (pH, acidity, moisture and ash contents, 
antioxidant activity, colour, and texture), microbial growth, organoleptic 
properties and consumer acceptability were assessed. Concerning physicochemical 
parameters and microbial growth only slight changes without any consistent 
tendency were observed. This was also confirmed by the trained panel that could 
not discriminate samples with different storage times. Best preservation 
conditions were obtained with 0%O2/40%CO2, promoting a shelf life extension of 
almost 12 days more comparing to commercial conditions presently used.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2015.07.147
PMID: 26471571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Urologe A. 2016 Jan;55(1):63-7. doi: 10.1007/s00120-015-3978-x.

[Urological aspects in patients with liver cirrhosis].

[Article in German]

Friedl A, Schwarzer R, Schneeweiss J, Brössner C.

BACKGROUND: Patients with liver cirrhosis (LC) are multimorbid and have 
urological diseases that occur more often than in the general population. The 
short life expectancy and poor general health complicate diagnosis and 
treatment. Due to the rising prevalence of LC, the number of patients from this 
group will increasingly present to urological practices.
TOPICS: There are only a few studies about urological diseases in LC which 
describe the diagnostic and therapeutic challenges in this patient group. LC 
patients have altered baseline PSA values, which must be considered in PSA 
monitoring as part of preventative prostate care. In addition, difficulties 
arise in diagnosis and treatment of bladder dysfunction, genitourinary 
infections/sepsis, hypogonadism, erectile dysfunction, and urological 
malignancies. The implementation of invasive/tumor surgical interventions 
depends on LC severity. The safest surgical approach possible should be used.
CONCLUSION: The worldwide prevalence of LC continues to rise but urological 
diagnosis and therapy in affected patients is often complicated due to their 
poor performance status.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-015-3978-x
PMID: 26471794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2016 Jul;71(7):882-90. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glv174. Epub 2015 Oct 15.

Sex-specific Tradeoffs With Growth and Fitness Following Life-span Extension by 
Rapamycin in an Outcrossing Nematode, Caenorhabditis remanei.

Lind MI(1), Zwoinska MK(2), Meurling S(2), Carlsson H(2), Maklakov AA(2).

Author information:
(1)Ageing Research Group, Department of Animal Ecology, Evolutionary Biology 
Centre, Uppsala University, Sweden. martin.i.lind@gmail.com.
(2)Ageing Research Group, Department of Animal Ecology, Evolutionary Biology 
Centre, Uppsala University, Sweden.

Rapamycin inhibits the nutrient-sensing TOR pathway and extends life span in a 
wide range of organisms. Although life-span extension usually differs between 
the sexes, the reason for this is poorly understood. Because TOR influences 
growth, rapamycin likely affects life-history traits such as growth and 
reproduction. Sexes have different life-history strategies, and theory predicts 
that they will resolve the tradeoffs between growth, reproduction, and life span 
differently. Specifically, in taxa with female-biased sexual size dimorphism, 
reduced growth may have smaller effects on male fitness. We investigated the 
effects of juvenile, adult, or life-long rapamycin treatment on growth, 
reproduction, life span, and individual fitness in the outcrossing nematode 
Caenorhabditis remanei Life-long exposure to rapamycin always resulted in the 
strongest response, whereas postreproductive exposure did not affect life span. 
Although rapamycin resulted in longer life span and smaller size in males, male 
individual fitness was not affected. In contrast, size and fitness were 
negatively affected in females, whereas life span was only extended under high 
rapamycin concentrations. Our results support the hypothesis that rapamycin 
affects key life-history traits in a sex-specific manner. We argue that the 
fitness cost of life-span extension will be sex specific and propose that the 
smaller sex generally pay less while enjoying stronger life-span increase.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glv174
PMID: 26472877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Meat Sci. 2016 Jan;111:192-7. doi: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2015.10.003. Epub 2015
Oct  9.

A chitosan-based coating with or without clove oil extends the shelf life of 
cooked pork sausages in refrigerated storage.

Lekjing S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Technology, Faculty of Science and Industrial Technology, 
Prince of Songkla University, Surat Thani campus, Muang, Surat Thani 84000, 
Thailand. Electronic address: somwang.s@psu.ac.th.

Chitosan coatings, with and without clove oil, were investigated for effects on 
quality and shelf life of cooked pork sausages stored at a refrigerated 
temperature (4±2°C). The various treatments of cooked pork sausages were: 
untreated (control), coating with 2% chitosan (CS), and coating with a mixture 
having 2% chitosan and 1.5% clove oil (CS+CO). Various microbiological, 
physical, chemical and sensory properties were monitored over 25 days of 
storage. The total viable count, the psychrotrophic bacteria count, the L* 
value, peroxide value and the thiobarbituric acid reactive substances increased, 
while the a* value, the b* value, the pH and the sensory scores decreased with 
storage time, across all treatments. However, these changes were slowest with 
the CS+CO treatment. Based on sensory evaluation and microbiological quality, 
the shelf lives were 14 days for control, 20 days for CS, and 20 days for CS+CO 
treated samples, under refrigerated storage.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2015.10.003
PMID: 26473294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. J Ment Health Policy Econ. 2015 Sep;18(3):147-55.

Implementing Suicide Prevention Programs: Costs and Potential Life Years Saved 
in Canada.

Vasiliadis HM(1), Lesage A, Latimer E, Seguin M.

Author information:
(1)Centre de recherche - Hopital Charles-Le Moyne Campus de Longueuil - 
Universite de Sherbrooke, 150 Place Charles LeMoyne - Bureau 200 Longueuil (QC) 
J4K 0A8, Canada, helen-maria.vasiliadis@usherbrooke.ca.

BACKGROUND: Little is known about the costs and effects of suicide prevention 
programs at the population level.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: We aimed to determine (i) the costs associated with a suicide 
death and using prospective values (ii) the costs and effects of transferring, 
into a Canadian context, the results of the European Nuremberg Alliance against 
Depression (NAD) trial with the addition of 4 community-based suicide prevention 
strategies. These included the training of family physicians in the detection 
and treatment of depression, population campaigns aimed at increasing awareness 
about depression, the training of community leaders among first responders and 
follow-up of individuals who attempted suicide.
METHODS: This study includes a prospective value implementation study design. 
Using published data and information from interviews with Canadian decision 
makers, we assessed the costs of a suicide death in the province of Quebec and 
the costs of potentially implementing the NAD multi-modal suicide prevention 
programs, and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), from a health 
care system and societal perspective, associated with the NAD program while 
considering the friction cost method (FCM) and human capital approach (HCA) 
(discounted at 3%.) The costs considered included those incurred for the suicide 
prevention program and direct medical and non-medical costs as well as those 
related to a police investigation and funeral costs. Indirect costs associated 
with loss of productivity and short term disability were also considered. 
Sensitivity analyses were also carried out. Costs presented were in 2010 
dollars.
RESULTS: The annual total cost of implementing the suicide prevention programs 
in Quebec reached CAD23,982,293. The most expensive components of the program 
included the follow-up of individuals who had attempted suicide and 
psychotherapy for bereaved individuals. These accounted for 39% and 34% of total 
costs. The ICER associated with the implementation of the programs reached on 
average CAD3,979 per life year saved.
DISCUSSION: Suicide prevention programs such as the NAD trial are cost-effective 
and can result in important potential cost-savings due to averted suicide deaths 
and reduced life years lost.
IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH CARE PROVISION AND USE: Implementation of suicide 
prevention programs at the population level in Canada is cost-effective. 
Community mental health programs aimed at increasing awareness and the treatment 
of depression and better follow-up of high risk individuals for suicide are 
associated with a minimal per capita investment. These programs can result in 
important potential cost-savings due to averted suicide deaths and decreased 
disability due to depression.
IMPLICATIONS FOR FURTHER RESEARCH: Additional research should focus on whether 
the outcomes of multi-modal suicide programs are specific or synergistic and 
most effective for which population subgroups. This may help inform how best to 
invest resources for the highest return.

PMID: 26474050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. BMC Palliat Care. 2015 Oct 16;14:50. doi: 10.1186/s12904-015-0048-5.

Promoting an ethic of engagement in pediatric palliative care research.

Rahimzadeh V(1), Bartlett G(2), Longo C(2), Crimi L(2), Macdonald ME(3), Jabado 
N(4), Ells C(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Centre of Genomics and Policy, McGill 
University, 5858 Côte-des-Neiges, Suite 300, Montréal, QC, H3S 1Z1, Canada. 
vasiliki.rahimzadeh@mail.mcgill.ca.
(2)Department of Family Medicine, McGill University, 5858 Côte-des-Neiges, Suite 
300, Montréal, QC, H3S 1Z1, Canada.
(3)Division of Oral Health and Society, Pediatric Palliative Care Research, 
Montreal Children's Hospital, McGill University, #530-2001 McGill College 
Avenue, Montreal, QC, H3A 1G1, Canada.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Montreal Children's Hospital Research Institute, 
McGill University Health Center, 1001 Décarie Boulevard, Montreal, H4A 3J1, QC, 
Canada.
(5)Biomedical Ethics Unit, McGill University, 3647 Peel St, Montreal, QC, H3A 
1X1, Canada.

BACKGROUND: This paper defends the ethical and empirical significance of direct 
engagement with terminally ill children and adolescents in PPC research on 
health-related quality of life. Clinical trials and other forms of health 
research have resulted in tremendous progress for improving clinical outcomes 
among children and adolescents diagnosed with a life-threatening illness. Less 
attention has been paid, however, to engaging this patient population directly 
in studies aimed at optimizing health-related quality of life in PPC. Though not 
restricted to care at the end of life, PPC--and by extension PPC research--is in 
part dependent on recognizing the social complexities of death and dying and 
where health-related quality of life is a fundamental element. To explore these 
complexities in depth requires partnership with terminally ill children and 
adolescents, and acknowledgement of their active social and moral agency in 
research.
DISCUSSION: Principles of pediatric research ethics, theoretical tenets of the 
"new sociology of the child(hood)," and human rights codified in the United 
Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC) underpin the position that 
a more engagement-centered approach is needed in PPC research. The ethics, 
sociologies and human rights of engagement will each be discussed as they relate 
to research with terminally ill children and adolescents in PPC. Qualitative 
method(ologies) presented in this paper, such as deliberative stakeholder 
consultations and phenomenology of practice can serve as meaningful vehicles for 
achieving i) participation among terminally ill children and adolescents; ii) 
evidence-bases for PPC best practices; and iii) fulfillment of research ethics 
principles.
CONCLUSION: PPC research based on direct engagement with PPC patients better 
reflects their unique expertise and social epistemologies of terminal illness. 
Such an approach to research would strengthen both the ethical and 
methodological soundness of HRQoL inquiry in PPC.

DOI: 10.1186/s12904-015-0048-5
PMCID: PMC4608148
PMID: 26474573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. BMC Public Health. 2015 Oct 16;15:1057. doi: 10.1186/s12889-015-2358-1.

How much of the difference in life expectancy between Scottish cities does 
deprivation explain?

Seaman R(1), Mitchell R(2), Dundas R(3), Leyland AH(3), Popham F(3).

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Council Social and Public Health Sciences Unit, University 
of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK. r.seaman.1@research.gla.ac.uk.
(2)Centre for Research on Environment, Society and Health, Institute of Health 
and Wellbeing, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.
(3)Medical Research Council Social and Public Health Sciences Unit, University 
of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.

BACKGROUND: Glasgow's low life expectancy and high levels of deprivation are 
well documented. Studies comparing Glasgow to similarly deprived cities in 
England suggest an excess of deaths in Glasgow that cannot be accounted for by 
deprivation. Within Scotland comparisons are more equivocal suggesting 
deprivation could explain Glasgow's excess mortality. Few studies have used life 
expectancy, an intuitive measure that quantifies the between-city difference in 
years. This study aimed to use the most up-to-date data to compare Glasgow to 
other Scottish cities and to (i) evaluate whether deprivation could account for 
lower life expectancy in Glasgow and (ii) explore whether the age distribution 
of mortality in Glasgow could explain its lower life expectancy.
METHODS: Sex specific life expectancy was calculated for 2007-2011 for the 
population in Glasgow and the combined population of Aberdeen, Dundee and 
Edinburgh. Life expectancy was calculated for deciles of income deprivation, 
based on the national ranking of datazones, using the Scottish Index of Multiple 
Deprivation. Life expectancy in Glasgow overall, and by deprivation decile, was 
compared to that in Aberdeen, Dundee and Edinburgh combined, and the life 
expectancy difference decomposed by age using Arriaga's discrete method.
RESULTS: Life expectancy for the whole Glasgow population was lower than the 
population of Aberdeen, Dundee and Edinburgh combined. When life expectancy was 
compared by national income deprivation decile, Glasgow's life expectancy was 
not systematically lower, and deprivation accounted for over 90 % of the 
difference. This was reduced to 70 % of the difference when carrying out 
sensitivity analysis using city-specific income deprivation deciles. In both 
analyses life expectancy was not systematically lower in Glasgow when stratified 
by deprivation. Decomposing the differences in life expectancy also showed that 
the age distribution of mortality was not systematically different in Glasgow 
after accounting for deprivation.
CONCLUSIONS: Life expectancy is not systematically lower across the Glasgow 
population compared to Aberdeen, Dundee and Edinburgh combined, once deprivation 
is accounted for. This provides further evidence that tackling deprivation in 
Glasgow would probably reduce the health inequalities that exist between 
Scottish cities. The change in the amount of unexplained difference when 
carrying out sensitivity analysis demonstrates the difficulties in comparing 
socioeconomic deprivation between populations, even within the same country and 
when applying an established ecological measure. Although the majority of health 
inequality between Glasgow and other Scottish cities is explained by 
deprivation, the difference in the amount of unexplained inequality depending on 
the relative context of deprivation used demonstrates the challenges associated 
with attributing mortality inequalities to an independent 'place effect'.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-015-2358-1
PMCID: PMC4608116
PMID: 26474578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Lancet Glob Health. 2015 Nov;3(11):e669-70. doi:
10.1016/S2214-109X(15)00204-1.

Neonatal infection: a major burden with minimal funding.

Seale AC(1), Head MG(2), Fitchett EJ(3), Vergnano S(4), Saha SK(5), Heath PT(4), 
Sharland M(4), Lawn JE(3); SPRING.

Author information:
(1)The Farr Institute of Health Informatics Research, University College London, 
London, UK; MARCH Centre, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, 
UK. Electronic address: anna.seale@gmail.com.
(2)The Farr Institute of Health Informatics Research, University College London, 
London, UK; Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(3)MARCH Centre, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(4)Paediatric Infectious Disease Research Group, St George's University of 
London, London, UK.
(5)Child Health Research Foundation, Department of Microbiology, Dhaka Shishu 
Hospital, Dhaka, Bangladesh.

DOI: 10.1016/S2214-109X(15)00204-1
PMID: 26475007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Lancet Glob Health. 2015 Nov;3(11):e712-23. doi:
10.1016/S2214-109X(15)00069-8.

Disability weights for the Global Burden of Disease 2013 study.

Salomon JA(1), Haagsma JA(2), Davis A(3), de Noordhout CM(4), Polinder S(5), 
Havelaar AH(6), Cassini A(7), Devleesschauwer B(8), Kretzschmar M(9), Speybroeck 
N(4), Murray CJ(10), Vos T(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard T H Chan School of Public 
Health, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: jsalomon@hsph.harvard.edu.
(2)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, Netherlands; 
Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, Seattle, 
WA, USA.
(3)Public Health England, London, UK.
(4)Institute of Health and Society, Université catholique de Louvain, Belgium.
(5)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, Netherlands.
(6)Emerging Pathogens Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; 
Institute for Risk Assessment Sciences, Utrecht University, Utrecht, 
Netherlands.
(7)European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, Stockholm, Sweden.
(8)Institute of Health and Society, Université catholique de Louvain, Belgium; 
Department of Virology, Parasitology and Immunology, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, Ghent University, Merelbeke, Belgium.
(9)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands; National Institute for Public Health and the 
Environment, Centre for Infectious Disease Control, Bilthoven, Netherlands.
(10)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet Glob Health. 2015 Nov;3(11):e661-2.

BACKGROUND: The Global Burden of Disease (GBD) study assesses health losses from 
diseases, injuries, and risk factors using disability-adjusted life-years, which 
need a set of disability weights to quantify health levels associated with 
non-fatal outcomes. The objective of this study was to estimate disability 
weights for the GBD 2013 study.
METHODS: We analysed data from new web-based surveys of participants aged 18-65 
years, completed in four European countries (Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, 
and Sweden) between Sept 23, 2013, and Nov 11, 2013, combined with data 
previously collected in the GBD 2010 disability weights measurement study. 
Surveys used paired comparison questions for which respondents considered two 
hypothetical individuals with different health states and specified which person 
they deemed healthier than the other. These surveys covered 183 health states 
pertinent to GBD 2013; of these states, 30 were presented with descriptions 
revised from previous versions and 18 were new to GBD 2013. We analysed paired 
comparison data using probit regression analysis and rescaled results to 
disability weight units between 0 (no loss of health) and 1 (loss equivalent to 
death). We compared results with previous estimates, and an additional analysis 
examined sensitivity of paired comparison responses to duration of hypothetical 
health states.
FINDINGS: The total analysis sample consisted of 30 230 respondents from the GBD 
2010 surveys and 30 660 from the new European surveys. For health states common 
to GBD 2010 and GBD 2013, results were highly correlated overall (Pearson's r 
0·992 [95% uncertainty interval 0·989-0·994]). For health state descriptions 
that were revised for this study, resulting disability weights were 
substantially different for a subset of these weights, including those related 
to hearing loss (eg, complete hearing loss: GBD 2010 0·033 [0·020-0·052]; GBD 
2013 0·215 [0·144-0·307]) and treated spinal cord lesions (below the neck: GBD 
2010 0·047 [0·028-0·072]; GBD 2013 0·296 [0·198-0·414]; neck level: GBD 2010 
0·369 [0·243-0·513]; GBD 2013 0·589 [0·415-0·748]). Survey responses to paired 
comparison questions were insensitive to whether the comparisons were framed in 
terms of temporary or chronic outcomes (Pearson's r 0·981 [0·973-0·987]).
INTERPRETATION: This study substantially expands the empirical basis for 
assessment of non-fatal outcomes in the GBD study. Findings from this study 
substantiate the notion that disability weights are sensitive to particular 
details in descriptions of health states, but robust to duration of outcomes.
FUNDING: European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, Bill and Melinda 
Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2015 Salomon et al. Open Access article distributed under the terms 
of CC BY-NC-ND. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2214-109X(15)00069-8
PMID: 26475018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Int J Surg. 2015 Nov;23(Pt A):176-80. doi: 10.1016/j.ijsu.2015.09.074. Epub
2015  Oct 22.

Laparoscopic hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) for refractory 
malignant ascites in patients unsuitable for cytoreductive surgery.

Valle SJ(1), Alzahrani NA(2), Alzahrani SE(1), Liauw W(3), Morris DL(1).

Author information:
(1)University of New South Wales Department of Surgery, St George Hospital, 
Kogarah, Australia.
(2)University of New South Wales Department of Surgery, St George Hospital, 
Kogarah, Australia; College of Medicine, Al-Iman Muhammad Ibn Saud Islamic 
University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: nayefalhariri@hotmail.com.
(3)University of New South Wales Department of Surgery, St George Hospital, 
Kogarah, Australia; Cancer Care Centre, St George Hospital, Kogarah, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Malignant ascites (MA) is the abnormal accumulation of fluid in 
the peritoneal cavity of patients with intraperitoneal dissemination of their 
disease and is associated with a short life expectancy. The most common clinical 
feature is a progressive increase of abdominal distention resulting in pain, 
discomfort, anorexia and dyspnoea. Currently, no treatment is established 
standard of care due to limited efficacy or considerable toxicity. The objective 
was to examine the efficacy of laparoscopic hyperthermic intraperitoneal 
chemotherapy (HIPEC) in the palliation of refractory MA in patients who were 
unsuitable for cytoreductive surgery.
METHODS: From May 2009 to June 2015, 12 patients with MA due to their peritoneal 
malignancy were treated with laparoscopic HIPEC. The time between operation and 
repeat paracentesis, in-hospital data, and the proportion of patients that did 
not require repeat paracentesis was analyzed.
RESULTS: One patient (8%) was admitted to ICU for 1 day. The mean operating time 
and hospital stay was 149.3 min (range 79-185) and 4.6 days (range 2-11) 
respectively. Neither high-grade morbidity nor mortality was observed. The 
median OS was 57 days. In our experience, a complete and definitive 
disappearance of MA was observed in 83% of patients. Two patients (17%) 
developed recurrent MA 124 days and 283 days post-HIPEC.
CONCLUSION: Laparoscopic HIPEC is a beneficial treatment for the management and 
palliation of refractory MA and results in an excellent clinical and 
radiological resolution in patients with a complete resolution observed in 
selected patients.

Copyright © 2015 IJS Publishing Group Limited. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijsu.2015.09.074
PMID: 26475090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. BMC Res Notes. 2015 Oct 16;8:576. doi: 10.1186/s13104-015-1553-6.

Health workers' knowledge on future vascular disease risk in women with 
pre-eclampsia in south western Nigeria.

Adekanle DA(1), Adeyemi AS(2), Olowookere SA(3), Akinleye CA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, College of Health Sciences, Ladoke 
Akintola University of Technology, Osogbo, Nigeria. adekanle2000@yahoo.co.uk.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, College of Health Sciences, Ladoke 
Akintola University of Technology, Osogbo, Nigeria. ourgodreins@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Community Health, College of Health Sciences, Obafemi Awolowo 
University, Ile-Ife, Nigeria. sanuolowookere@yahoo.com.
(4)Department of Community Medicine, LAUTECH Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, Nigeria. 
akinleye3@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Pre-eclampsia progressing to eclampsia is one of the major causes of 
maternal death in Nigeria. Since there is long term association of pre-eclampsia 
with cardiovascular disease, cerebrovascular disease, renal disease, short life 
expectancy and mortality, it is essential to obtain obstetric history for better 
counseling and long term monitoring. The study assessed the knowledge of health 
workers about the association of pre-eclampsia with future cardiovascular 
disease and offering any risk-reduction counseling to women with pre-eclampsia.
METHODS: During a training workshop, a validated questionnaire on the 
association between pre-eclampsia and cardiovascular risk was distributed among 
health care workers working at the infant welfare and family planning clinics in 
Osun State. Data were analysed using descriptive and inferential statistics.
RESULTS: One hundred and forty-six out of 150 health workers approached 
participated in the study (response rate 97.3%). Mean age of respondents was 
35.6 ± 9.1 years. Median age of practice was 7 years, ranging from 1-40 years. 
They were medical doctors (60.3%), community health workers (26.7%) and 
nurses/midwives (13.0%). Most participants had good knowledge on future 
cardiovascular risk of pre-eclampsia. The medical doctors had better knowledge 
compared to nurses/midwives and community health workers (78.4 vs. 57.9 vs. 
53.8%; p < 0.05). Below half (45.9%) offered risk-reduction counseling.
CONCLUSION: Knowledge of the cardiovascular risk factors was lower among the 
nurses/midwives and community health workers. Risk reduction counseling was 
quite low across all the health workers. There is need for continuous medical 
education and possible review of the training curriculum of the lower cadres of 
health workers.

DOI: 10.1186/s13104-015-1553-6
PMCID: PMC4608265
PMID: 26475345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Clin Ther. 2015 Nov 1;37(11):2515-2526.e5. doi:
10.1016/j.clinthera.2015.09.007.  Epub 2015 Oct 21.

Subgroup Economic Evaluation of Radiotherapy for Breast Cancer After Mastectomy.

Wan X(1), Peng L(1), Ma J(2), Chen G(3), Li Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(2)Department of Oncology, The Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(3)Department of Breast and Thyroid Surgery, The Second Xiangya Hospital, 
Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(4)College of Pharmacy, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, China. 
Electronic address: yuan_jianli@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: A recent meta-analysis by the Early Breast Cancer Trialists' 
Collaborative Group found significant improvements achieved by postmastectomy 
radiotherapy (PMRT) for patients with breast cancer with 1 to 3 positive nodes 
(pN1-3). It is unclear whether PMRT is cost-effective for subgroups of patients 
with positive nodes.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of PMRT for subgroups of patients 
with breast cancer with positive nodes.
METHODS: A semi-Markov model was constructed to estimate the expected lifetime 
costs, life expectancy, and quality-adjusted life-years for patients receiving 
or not receiving radiation therapy. Clinical and health utilities data were from 
meta-analyses by the Early Breast Cancer Trialists' Collaborative Group or 
randomized clinical trials. Costs were estimated from the perspective of the 
Chinese society. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.
FINDINGS: The incremental cost-effective ratio was estimated as $7984, $4043, 
$3572, and $19,021 per quality-adjusted life-year for patients with positive 
nodes (pN+), patients with pN1-3, patients with pN1-3 who received systemic 
therapy, and patients with >4 positive nodes (pN4+), respectively. According to 
World Health Organization recommendations, these incremental cost-effective 
ratios were judged as cost-effective. However, the results of one-way 
sensitivity analyses suggested that the results were highly sensitive to the 
relative effectiveness of PMRT (rate ratio).
IMPLICATIONS: We determined that the results were highly sensitive to the rate 
ratio. However, the addition of PMRT for patients with pN1-3 in China has a 
reasonable chance to be cost-effective and may be judged as an efficient 
deployment of limited health resource, and the risk and uncertainty of PMRT are 
relatively greater for patients with pN4+.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2015.09.007
PMID: 26475419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Biochem J. 2015 Nov 1;471(3):307-22. doi: 10.1042/BJ20150497.

Repurposing metformin: an old drug with new tricks in its binding pockets.

Pryor R(1), Cabreiro F(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Structural and Molecular Biology, University College London, 
Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, U.K.
(2)Institute of Structural and Molecular Biology, University College London, 
Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, U.K. f.cabreiro@ucl.ac.uk.

Improvements in healthcare and nutrition have generated remarkable increases in 
life expectancy worldwide. This is one of the greatest achievements of the 
modern world yet it also presents a grave challenge: as more people survive into 
later life, more also experience the diseases of old age, including type 2 
diabetes (T2D), cardiovascular disease (CVD) and cancer. Developing new ways to 
improve health in the elderly is therefore a top priority for biomedical 
research. Although our understanding of the molecular basis of these morbidities 
has advanced rapidly, effective novel treatments are still lacking. Alternative 
drug development strategies are now being explored, such as the repurposing of 
existing drugs used to treat other diseases. This can save a considerable amount 
of time and money since the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and safety 
profiles of these drugs are already established, effectively enabling 
preclinical studies to be bypassed. Metformin is one such drug currently being 
investigated for novel applications. The present review provides a thorough and 
detailed account of our current understanding of the molecular pharmacology and 
signalling mechanisms underlying biguanide-protein interactions. It also focuses 
on the key role of the microbiota in regulating age-associated morbidities and a 
potential role for metformin to modulate its function. Research in this area 
holds the key to solving many of the mysteries of our current understanding of 
drug action and concerted effects to provide sustained and long-life health.

© 2015 Authors; published by Portland Press Limited.

DOI: 10.1042/BJ20150497
PMCID: PMC4613459
PMID: 26475449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. J Minim Invasive Gynecol. 2016 Feb 1;23(2):223-33. doi: 
10.1016/j.jmig.2015.09.025. Epub 2015 Oct 22.

Cost-Effectiveness of Laparoscopic Hysterectomy With Morcellation Compared With 
Abdominal Hysterectomy for Presumed Myomas.

Rutstein SE(1), Siedhoff MT(2), Geller EJ(2), Doll KM(2), Wu JM(2), 
Clarke-Pearson DL(2), Wheeler SB(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina; Department of Medicine, University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina. Electronic address: 
sarah_rutstein@med.unc.edu.
(2)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.
(3)Department of Health Policy and Management, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: Hysterectomy for presumed leiomyomata is 1 of the most common 
surgical procedures performed in nonpregnant women in the United States. 
Laparoscopic hysterectomy (LH) with morcellation is an appealing alternative to 
abdominal hysterectomy (AH) but may result in dissemination of malignant cells 
and worse outcomes in the setting of an occult leiomyosarcoma (LMS). We sought 
to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of LH versus AH.
DESIGN: Decision-analytic model of 100 000 women in the United States assessing 
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) in dollars per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained (Canadian Task Force classification III).
SETTING: U.S. hospitals.
PATIENTS: Adult premenopausal women undergoing LH or AH for presumed benign 
leiomyomata.
INTERVENTIONS: We developed a decision-analytic model from a provider 
perspective across 5 years, comparing the cost-effectiveness of LH to AH in 
terms of dollar (2014 US dollars) per QALY gained. The model included average 
total direct medical costs and utilities associated with the procedures, 
complications, and clinical outcomes. Baseline estimates and ranges for cost and 
probability data were drawn from the existing literature.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Estimated overall deaths were lower in LH versus 
AH (98 vs 103). Death due to LMS was more common in LH versus AH (86 vs 71). 
Base-case assumptions estimated that average per person costs were lower in LH 
versus AH, with a savings of $2193 ($24 181 vs $26 374). Over 5 years, women in 
the LH group experienced 4.99 QALY versus women in the AH group with 4.91 QALY 
(incremental gain of .085 QALYs). LH dominated AH in base-case estimates: LH was 
both less expensive and yielded greater QALY gains. The ICER was sensitive to 
operative costs for LH and AH. Varying operative costs of AH yielded an ICER of 
$87 651/QALY gained (minimum) to AH being dominated (maximum). Probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses, in which all input parameters and costs were varied 
simultaneously, demonstrated a relatively robust model. The AH approach was 
dominated 68.9% of the time; 17.4% of simulations fell above the 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $50 000/QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: When considering total direct hospital costs, complications, and 
morbidity, LH was less costly and yielded more QALYs gained versus AH. Driven by 
the rarity of occult LMS and the reduced incidence of intra- and postoperative 
complications, LH with morcellation may be a more cost-effective and less 
invasive alternative to AH and should remain an option for women needing 
hysterectomy for leiomyomata.

Copyright © 2016 AAGL. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmig.2015.09.025
PMCID: PMC4744549
PMID: 26475764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Environ Entomol. 2016 Feb;45(1):252-7. doi: 10.1093/ee/nvv157. Epub 2015 Oct
16.

Effects of Ethacrynic Acid Addition to Diet on Fitness and Development in the 
Psocid Liposcelis bostrychophila Badonnel.

Dou W(1), Wu JJ(1), Chen SC(1), Wei DD(1), Wang JJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Entomology and Pest Control Engineering, College of Plant 
Protection, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, P. R. China 
(douwei80@swu.edu.cn; 30356404@qq.com; 419093553@qq.com; weidandande@163.com; 
wangjinjun@swu.edu.cn).
(2)Key Laboratory of Entomology and Pest Control Engineering, College of Plant 
Protection, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, P. R. China 
(douwei80@swu.edu.cn; 30356404@qq.com; 419093553@qq.com; weidandande@163.com; 
wangjinjun@swu.edu.cn), wangjinjun@swu.edu.cn.

