
327. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2015 Nov 9;13:179. doi:
10.1186/s12955-015-0372-8.

A systematic review of instruments for measuring outcomes in economic evaluation 
within aged care.

Bulamu NB(1), Kaambwa B(2), Ratcliffe J(3).

Author information:
(1)Flinders Health Economics Group, School of Medicine, Flinders University, A 
Block, Repatriation General Hospital, 202-16 Daws Road, Daw Park, SA, 5041, 
Australia. bula0011@flinders.edu.au.
(2)Flinders Health Economics Group, School of Medicine, Flinders University, A 
Block, Repatriation General Hospital, 202-16 Daws Road, Daw Park, SA, 5041, 
Australia. billingsley.kaambwa@flinders.edu.au.
(3)Flinders Health Economics Group, School of Medicine, Flinders University, A 
Block, Repatriation General Hospital, 202-16 Daws Road, Daw Park, SA, 5041, 
Australia. julie.ratcliffe@flinders.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: This paper describes the methods and results of a systematic review 
to identify instruments used to measure quality of life outcomes in older 
people. The primary focus of the review was to identify instruments suitable for 
application with older people within economic evaluations conducted in the aged 
care sector.
METHODS: Online databases searched were PubMed, Medline, Scopus, and Web of 
Science, PsycInfo, CINAHL, Embase and Informit. Studies that met the following 
criteria were included: 1) study population exclusively above 65 years of age 2) 
measured health status, health related quality of life or quality of life 
outcomes more broadly through use of an instrument developed for this purpose, 
3) used a generic preference based instrument or an older person specific 
preference based or non-preference based instrument or both, and 4) published in 
journals in the English language after 2000.
RESULTS: The most commonly applied generic preference based instrument in both 
the community and residential aged care context was the EuroQol - 5 Dimensions 
(EQ-5D), followed by the Adult Social Care Outcomes Toolkit (ASCOT) and the 
Health Utilities Index (HUI2/3). The most widely applied older person specific 
instrument was the ICEpop CAPability measure for Older people (ICECAP-O) in both 
community and residential aged care.
CONCLUSION: In the absence of an ideal instrument for incorporating into 
economic evaluations in the aged care sector, this review recommends the use of 
a generic preference based measure of health related quality of life such as the 
EQ-5D to obtain quality adjusted life years, in combination with an instrument 
that has a broader quality of life focus like the ASCOT, which was designed 
specifically for evaluating interventions in social care or the ICECAP-O, a 
capability measure for older people.

DOI: 10.1186/s12955-015-0372-8
PMCID: PMC4640110
PMID: 26553129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Life Sci Space Res (Amst). 2015 Nov;7:27-38. doi:
10.1016/j.lssr.2015.09.003.  Epub 2015 Oct 9.

3DHZETRN: Neutron leakage in finite objects.

Wilson JW(1), Slaba TC(2), Badavi FF(1), Reddell BD(3), Bahadori AA(3).

Author information:
(1)Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA 23529, USA.
(2)NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton, VA 23681-2199, USA. Electronic 
address: Tony.C.Slaba@nasa.gov.
(3)NASA Johnson Space Center, Houston, TX 77004, USA.

The 3DHZETRN formalism was recently developed as an extension to HZETRN with an 
emphasis on 3D corrections for neutrons and light ions. Comparisons to Monte 
Carlo (MC) simulations were used to verify the 3DHZETRN methodology in slab and 
spherical geometry, and it was shown that 3DHZETRN agrees with MC codes to the 
degree that various MC codes agree among themselves. One limitation of such 
comparisons is that all of the codes (3DHZETRN and three MC codes) utilize 
different nuclear models/databases; additionally, using a common nuclear model 
is impractical due to the complexity of the software. It is therefore difficult 
to ascertain if observed discrepancies are caused by transport code 
approximations or nuclear model differences. In particular, an important 
simplification in the 3DHZETRN formalism assumes that neutron production cross 
sections can be represented as the sum of forward and isotropic components, 
where the forward component is subsequently solved within the straight-ahead 
approximation. In the present report, previous transport model results in 
specific geometries are combined with additional results in related geometries 
to study neutron leakage using the Webber 1956 solar particle event as a source 
boundary condition. A ratio is defined to quantify the fractional neutron 
leakage at a point in a finite object relative to a semi-infinite slab geometry. 
Using the leakage ratio removes some of the dependence on the magnitude of the 
neutron production and clarifies the effects of angular scattering and 
absorption with regard to differences between the models. Discussion is given 
regarding observed differences between the MC codes and conclusions drawn about 
the need for further code development. Although the current version of 3DHZETRN 
is reasonably accurate compared to MC simulations, this study shows that 
improved leakage estimates can be obtained by replacing the 
isotropic/straight-ahead approximation with more detailed descriptions.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lssr.2015.09.003
PMID: 26553635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Gerontologist. 2016 Jun;56(3):383-90. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnv152. Epub 2015
Nov  9.

Aging in Italy: The Need for New Welfare Strategies in an Old Country.

Mazzola P(1), Rimoldi SM(2), Rossi P(3), Noale M(4), Rea F(5), Facchini C(3), 
Maggi S(4), Corrao G(5), Annoni G(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Milano-Bicocca, and 
Geriatric Clinic, San Gerardo Hospital, Monza, Italy. Clinical Neurosciences 
Research Area, NeuroMI-Milan Center for Neuroscience, Milano, Italy. 
paolo.mazzola@unimib.it.
(2)Demography Unit, Department of Statistics and Quantitative Methods, 
University of Milano-Bicocca, Italy.
(3)Department of Sociology and Social Research, University of Milano-Bicocca, 
Italy.
(4)Institute of Neuroscience, Aging Branch, National Research Council-CNR, 
Padova, Italy.
(5)Biostatistics, Epidemiology and Public Health Unit, Department of Statistics 
and Quantitative Methods, University of Milano-Bicocca, Italy.
(6)Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Milano-Bicocca, and 
Geriatric Clinic, San Gerardo Hospital, Monza, Italy. Clinical Neurosciences 
Research Area, NeuroMI-Milan Center for Neuroscience, Milano, Italy.

Italy, a Southern European country with 60.8 million inhabitants, has the 
largest proportion of elderly citizens (aged ≥65) in Europe of 21.4%. The aging 
of the population is due to a number of reasons, such as baby boomers growing 
old, an increase in longevity, and low birth rate. Although international 
migration has increased in recent years, the addition of a foreign segment of 
the population has neither compensated for nor significantly curtailed the aging 
phenomenon. The impact of aging on the economic sustainability concerns the 
progressive reduction of the workforce, high incidence of pension spending in 
the overall resources allocated to welfare, recent reform of the pension system, 
and the growing issue of "non-self-sufficiency" in the elderly. Despite limited 
financial measures dedicated to research, Italy is conducting important studies 
on aging, both at the national and international level. Physicians and 
researchers in the field of geriatrics and gerontology are not only promoting 
quality of life in the elderly, and healthy-active aging, but also contributing 
to economic stability and social organization. Finally, nutritional and 
lifestyle habits-and their role in preventing chronic diseases-are the focus of 
the current international event EXPO 2015, with many sections dedicated to the 
elderly.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnv152
PMID: 26553737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. J Vasc Surg. 2016 Mar;63(3):610-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2015.09.030. Epub 2015
Nov  6.

Life expectancy and causes of death after repair of intact and ruptured 
abdominal aortic aneurysms.

Bastos Gonçalves F(1), Ultee KH(2), Hoeks SE(2), Stolker RJ(2), Verhagen HJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Erasmus University Medical Centre, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands; Department of Vascular Surgery, Hospital de Santa Marta, CHLC, 
NOVA Medical School, Lisbon, Portugal. Electronic address: 
f.bastosgoncalves@erasmusmc.nl.
(2)Department of Vascular Surgery, Erasmus University Medical Centre, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy and causes of death after abdominal aortic aneurysm 
(AAA) repair are not well characterized. Population aging and improved secondary 
prevention may have modified the prognosis of these patients. We designed a 
retrospective cohort study to determine the vital prognosis, causes of death, 
and differences in outcome after intact and ruptured AAA.
METHODS: All patients with AAA treated from 2003 to 2011 at a single university 
institution in The Netherlands were analyzed. Survival status was derived from 
civil registry data. Causes of death were obtained from death certificates. The 
primary end point was overall mortality. Secondary end points were 
cardiovascular, cancer-related, and AAA-related mortality. Predictors for 
perioperative and late survival were obtained by logistic regression and Cox 
regression models, respectively.
RESULTS: The study included 619 consecutive AAA patients (12% women; mean age, 
72 years), of whom 152 (24.5%) had ruptured AAAs. Endovascular repair was 
performed in 390 (63%). Rupture (odds ratio [OR], 10.63; 95% confidence interval 
[CI], 4.80-23.5), open repair (OR, 3.59; 95% CI, 1.69-7.62), renal insufficiency 
(OR, 2.94; 95% CI, 1.51-3.46), and age (OR, 1.08 per year; 95% CI, 1.09-1.15) 
were predictors of 30-day mortality. Five-year survival expectancy was 65% for 
intact AAA and 41% for ruptured AAA (P < .001). Cardiovascular deaths unrelated 
to the AAA occurred in 35% and cancer-related deaths in 29% of deceased 
patients. Predictors for late mortality were history of prior malignant disease 
(hazard ratio, 2.83; 95% CI, 1.99-4.03) and age (hazard ratio, 1.08 per year; 
95% CI, 1.05-1.10). After 30 days, only six deaths (1.1%) were AAA related.
CONCLUSIONS: Endovascular repair reduced perioperative mortality by threefold, 
but no survival benefit was observed at long term. After the perioperative 
period, survival of ruptured AAA and intact AAA patients was not different. 
Deaths were distributed in similar proportions between cardiovascular and 
cancer-related causes.

Copyright © 2016 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2015.09.030
PMID: 26553951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. PLoS One. 2015 Nov 10;10(11):e0142576. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0142576. 
eCollection 2015.

Partner Notification for Reduction of HIV-1 Transmission and Related Costs among 
Men Who Have Sex with Men: A Mathematical Modeling Study.

Nichols BE(1), Götz HM(2)(3), van Gorp EC(1)(4), Verbon A(4), Rokx C(4), Boucher 
CA(1), van de Vijver DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Viroscience, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(2)Department Infectious Disease Control, Public Health Service 
Rotterdam-Rijnmond, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine and Infectious Diseases, Erasmus Medical 
Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Earlier antiretroviral treatment initiation prevents new HIV 
infections. A key problem in HIV prevention and care is the high number of 
patients diagnosed late, as these undiagnosed patients can continue forward HIV 
transmission. We modeled the impact on the Dutch men-who-have-sex-with-men (MSM) 
HIV epidemic and cost-effectiveness of an existing partner notification process 
for earlier identification of HIV-infected individuals to reduce HIV 
transmission.
METHODS: Reduction in new infections and cost-effectiveness ratios were obtained 
for the use of partner notification to identify 5% of all new diagnoses 
(Scenario 1) and 20% of all new diagnoses (Scenario 2), versus no partner 
notification. Costs and quality adjusted life years (QALYs) were assigned to 
each disease state and calculated over 5 year increments for a 20 year period.
RESULTS: Partner notification is predicted to avert 18-69 infections 
(interquartile range [IQR] 13-24; 51-93) over the course of 5 years countrywide 
to 221-830 (IQR 140-299; 530-1,127) over 20 years for Scenario 1 and 2 
respectively. Partner notification was considered cost-effective in the short 
term, with increasing cost-effectiveness over time: from €41,476 -€41, 736 (IQR 
€40,529-€42,147; €40,791-€42,397) to €5,773 -€5,887 (€5,134-€7,196; 
€5,411-€6,552) per QALY gained over a 5 and 20 year period, respectively. The 
full monetary benefits of partner notification by preventing new HIV infections 
become more apparent over time.
CONCLUSIONS: Partner notification will not lead to the end of the HIV epidemic, 
but will prevent new infections and be increasingly cost-effectiveness over 
time.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0142576
PMCID: PMC4640527
PMID: 26554586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


332. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2016 Apr;68(4):993-1003. doi: 10.1002/art.39490.

Derivation and External Validation of a Prediction Rule for Five-Year Mortality 
in Patients With Early Diffuse Cutaneous Systemic Sclerosis.

Domsic RT(1), Nihtyanova SI(2), Wisniewski SR(1), Fine MJ(3), Lucas M(1), Kwoh 
CK(4), Denton CP(2), Medsger TA Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(2)University College London Medical School, Royal Free Hospital, London, UK.
(3)University of Pittsburgh and Veterans Affairs Center for Health Equity 
Research and Promotion, Veterans Affairs Pittsburgh Healthcare, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania.
(4)University of Arizona Arthritis Center, Tucson.

Erratum in
    Arthritis Rheumatol. 2016 Nov;68(11):2751.

Comment in
    Arthritis Rheumatol. 2017 Jan;69(1):241-242.
    Arthritis Rheumatol. 2017 Jan;69(1):242.

OBJECTIVE: Although diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis (dcSSc) is associated 
with a reduction in life expectancy, there are no validated prognostic models 
for determining 5-year mortality in patients with dcSSc. The objective of this 
study was to derive and validate a rule for predicting 5-year mortality in 
patients with early dcSSc.
METHODS: We studied an inception cohort of 388 US Caucasian patients with early 
dcSSc (<2 years from the appearance of the first symptom). Predefined baseline 
variables were analyzed in a stepwise logistic regression model in order to 
identify factors independently associated with 5-year all-cause mortality. We 
rounded the beta weights to the nearest integer and summed the points assigned 
to each variable in order to stratify patients into low-risk (<0 points), 
moderate-risk (1-2 points), and high-risk (≥3 points) groups. We then applied 
this rule to an external validation cohort of 144 Caucasian patients with early 
dcSSc from the Royal Free Hospital cohort and compared stratum-specific 5-year 
mortality.
RESULTS: Six independent predictors (rounded beta weight) comprised the model: 
age at first visit (points allotted: -1, 0, or 1), male sex (points allotted: 0 
or 1), tendon friction rubs (points allotted: 0 or 1), gastrointestinal 
involvement (points allotted: 0 or 1), RNA polymerase III antibodies (points 
allotted: 0 or 1), and anemia (points allotted: 0 or 1). The 3-level risk 
stratification model performed well, with no significant differences between the 
US derivation cohort and the UK validation cohort.
CONCLUSION: We derived and externally validated, in US and UK cohorts, an 
easy-to-use 6-variable prediction rule that assigns low-risk, moderate-risk, and 
high-risk categories for 5-year mortality in patients with early dcSSc. Only 
history, physical examination, and basic laboratory assessments are required.

© 2016, American College of Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1002/art.39490
PMID: 26554637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Exp Eye Res. 2016 Apr;145:17-25. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2015.11.001. Epub 2015
Nov  7.

The effects of the apoE4 genotype on the developing mouse retina.

Maharshak I(1), Salomon-Zimri S(2), Antes R(2), Liraz O(2), Nisgav Y(3), Livnat 
T(3), Weinberger D(4), Colton CA(5), Solomon AS(6), Michaelson DM(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, George S. Wise Faculty of Life Sciences, Tel Aviv 
University, Tel Aviv, Israel; Department of Ophthalmology, Sackler School of 
Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
(2)Department of Neurobiology, George S. Wise Faculty of Life Sciences, Tel Aviv 
University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(3)Laboratory of Eye Research, Felsenstein Medical Research Center, Rabin 
Medical Center, Petach Tikva, Israel.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Sackler School of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, 
Tel-Aviv, Israel; Department of Ophthalmology, Rabin Medical Center, Petach 
Tikva, Israel.
(5)Division of Neurology, Duke University Medical Center, Department of 
Medicine, Durham, NC, USA.
(6)Department of Ophthalmology, Sackler School of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, 
Tel-Aviv, Israel; Goldschleger Eye Research Institute, Tel-Aviv University, 
Tel-Hashomer, Israel.
(7)Department of Neurobiology, George S. Wise Faculty of Life Sciences, Tel Aviv 
University, Tel Aviv, Israel. Electronic address: dmichael@post.tau.ac.il.

Apolipoprotein E4 (apoE4), the most prevalent genetic risk factor for 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), is associated with neuronal and vascular impairments. 
The retina, which is as an extension of the central nervous system (CNS), is a 
particularly suitable model for studying developmental and functional aspects of 
the neuronal and vascular systems. This study investigates the apoE4-dependent 
developmental effects on the retinal vasculature and neuronal systems and on the 
levels of apoE and the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in the retina. 
This was performed utilizing retinas of 4, 7, 12, and of 120-day-old 
human-apoE4-targeted replacement mice and of corresponding mice that express the 
AD benign isoform, apoE3. The results obtained revealed retinal vascular 
pathology in the apoE4 mice, which started on the early post-natal days. This 
includes transient increase in vascular branching, and vascular buds which are 
round vascular elements representing sprouting or retracting vessels. These 
effects peaked and ended during the neonatal period. Examination of the synaptic 
system utilizing the pre-synaptic marker synaptophysin revealed a significant 
decrease of retinal synaptic density in the apoE4 mice, which was detectable by 
post-natal day 12 (P12). These morphological changes are associated with 
neonatal age-dependent elevation in the apoE levels in both apoE3 and apoE4 
retinas which is more profound in the apoE4 mice and a corresponding increase in 
VEGF levels, which is less profound in the apoE4 mice. Additionally, we observed 
lower levels of retinal VEGF in the apoE4 mice compared to the apoE3 mice 
retinas on P12. These results show that apoE4 has a transient vascular effect 
during retinal development that ends in the neonatal period, which is 
accompanied by a synaptic effect that begins at the end of the neonatal period. 
These findings show that the apoE4 genotype can have distinct developmental 
effects on both the retinal vasculature and on neurons and suggest that the 
vascular effects of apoE4 may be related to reduced levels of VEGF.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2015.11.001
PMID: 26554939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Antivir Ther. 2015;20(8):827-33. doi: 10.3851/IMP2986. Epub 2015 Aug 26.

Hepatitis C, disease and its management: a cost-effectiveness analysis of the 
new generation oral protease inhibitors.

Arshad M(1), Wei F, Nelsen DA Jr.

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine Residency Program, The Baptist Health System, Birmingham, 
AL, USA.

BACKGROUND: Hepatitis C, caused by a single-stranded RNA virus, has become a 
global health problem. Infecting millions of individuals in the United States 
alone, chronic HCV infection can lead to devastating medical problems including 
cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. These problems create millions of 
dollars in health-care costs for treatment and management. This study determines 
the cost-effectiveness of hepatitis C treatment with the new generation of oral 
protease inhibitors.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to simulate the progression of 
genotype-1 chronic hepatitis C disease in a cohort of 50-year-old patients. A 
decision tree, along with the Markov model, was then used to determine duration 
of disease, treatment success, progression of disease and mortality. At the end 
of each stage in the model, the cost and quality-adjusted life years (QALY) were 
summed for each individual. These were then used to calculate the overall 
cost-effectiveness ratio (CER) using QALY as the unit of effectiveness. Four 
treatment options were modelled: sofosbuvir with pegylated interferon-α and 
ribavirin (SOF/PEG-IFN+RBV), sofosbuvir with ribavirin (SOF/RBV), simeprevir 
with pegylated interferon-α and ribavirin (SMV/PEG-IFN+RBV) and simeprevir with 
sofosbuvir (SMV/SOF).
RESULTS: SOF/PEG-IFN+RBV yielded a CER ratio of $6,796.22/QALY, SMV/PEG-IFN+RBV 
of $7,642.60/QALY and SMV/SOF of $8,959.11/QALY. SOF/RBV had a higher CER of 
$16,295.30/QALY. It is important to note however that SMV/SOF had the highest 
QALY at 19.08.
CONCLUSIONS: After consideration of quality of life, treatment regimens and 
treatment side effects, the SMV/SOF regimen yields acceptable cost-effectiveness 
ratios with high QALY.

DOI: 10.3851/IMP2986
PMCID: PMC5323075
PMID: 26555064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURE STATEMNTS Authors have no conflict of 
interest.


335. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2015 Nov;8(6):541-51. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.115.001994. Epub 2015 Nov 10.

Health and Economic Implications of National Treatment Coverage for 
Cardiovascular Disease in India: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.

Basu S(1), Bendavid E(2), Sood N(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Medicine Prevention Research Center, Center for 
Primary Care and Outcomes Research, (S.B., E.B.), Department of Medicine 
Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research, Prevention Research Center 
(S.B.), and Division of General Medical Disciplines (E.B.), Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA; Department of Economics National Bureau of Economic Research, 
Center for International Development, Stanford Institute for Economic Policy 
Research, Stanford, CA (S.B.); Department of Public Health and Policy, London 
School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom (S.B.); 
Department of Pharmaceutical Economics and Policy and Schaeffer Center for 
Health Policy and Economics, University of Southern California, Los Angeles 
(N.S.); and National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA (N.S.). 
basus@stanford.edu.
(2)From the Department of Medicine Prevention Research Center, Center for 
Primary Care and Outcomes Research, (S.B., E.B.), Department of Medicine 
Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research, Prevention Research Center 
(S.B.), and Division of General Medical Disciplines (E.B.), Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA; Department of Economics National Bureau of Economic Research, 
Center for International Development, Stanford Institute for Economic Policy 
Research, Stanford, CA (S.B.); Department of Public Health and Policy, London 
School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom (S.B.); 
Department of Pharmaceutical Economics and Policy and Schaeffer Center for 
Health Policy and Economics, University of Southern California, Los Angeles 
(N.S.); and National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA (N.S.).

Comment in
    Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2015 Nov;8(6):535-8.

BACKGROUND: Whether to cover cardiovascular disease costs is an increasingly 
pressing question for low- and middle-income countries. We sought to identify 
the impact of expanding national insurance to cover primary prevention, 
secondary prevention, and tertiary treatment for cardiovascular disease in 
India.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We incorporated data from coverage experiments into a 
validated microsimulation model of myocardial infarction and stroke in India to 
evaluate the cost-effectiveness of alternate coverage strategies. Coverage of 
primary prevention alone saved 3.6 million disability-adjusted life-years (DALY) 
per annum at an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $469 per DALY averted 
when compared with the status quo of no coverage. Coverage of primary and 
secondary preventions was dominated by a strategy of covering primary prevention 
and tertiary treatment, which prevented 6.6 million DALYs at an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $2241 per DALY averted, when compared with that of 
primary prevention alone. The combination of all 3 categories yielded the 
greatest impact at an incremental cost per DALY averted of $5588 when compared 
with coverage of primary prevention plus tertiary treatment. When compared with 
the status quo of no coverage, coverage of all 3 categories of 
prevention/treatment yielded an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $1331 
per DALY averted. In sensitivity analyses, coverage of primary preventive 
treatments remained cost-effective even if adherence and access to therapy were 
low, but tertiary coverage would require avoiding unnecessary procedures to 
remain cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Coverage of all 3 major types of cardiovascular treatment would be 
expected to have high impact and reasonable cost-effectiveness in India across a 
broad spectrum of access and adherence levels.

© 2015 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.115.001994
PMCID: PMC4801228
PMID: 26555122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2015 Nov;8(6):621-30. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.115.002002. Epub 2015 Nov 10.

Cost-Effectiveness of Screening for Primary Aldosteronism and Subtype Diagnosis 
in the Resistant Hypertensive Patients.

Lubitz CC(1), Economopoulos KP(2), Sy S(2), Johanson C(2), Kunzel HE(2), Reincke 
M(2), Gazelle GS(2), Weinstein MC(2), Gaziano TA(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Departments of Surgery (C.C.L., K.P.E.) and Radiology (G.S.G.), 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston; Department of Radiology, Institute for 
Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA (C.C.L., 
K.P.E., C.J., G.S.G.); Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard T.H. 
Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA (S.S., G.S.G., M.C.W., T.A.G.); 
Schwerpunkt Endokrinologie, Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik IV, Klinikum der 
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, München, Germany (H.E.K., M.R.); and 
Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, MA (T.A.G.). clubitz@partners.org.
(2)From the Departments of Surgery (C.C.L., K.P.E.) and Radiology (G.S.G.), 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston; Department of Radiology, Institute for 
Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA (C.C.L., 
K.P.E., C.J., G.S.G.); Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard T.H. 
Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA (S.S., G.S.G., M.C.W., T.A.G.); 
Schwerpunkt Endokrinologie, Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik IV, Klinikum der 
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, München, Germany (H.E.K., M.R.); and 
Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, MA (T.A.G.).

BACKGROUND: Primary aldosteronism (PA) is a common and underdiagnosed disease 
with significant morbidity potentially cured by surgery. We aim to assess if the 
long-term cardiovascular benefits of identifying and treating surgically 
correctable PA outweigh the upfront increased costs in patients at the time 
patients are diagnosed with resistant hypertension (RH).
METHODS AND RESULTS: A decision-analytic model compares aggregate costs and 
systolic blood pressure changes of 6 recommended or implemented diagnostic 
strategies for PA in a simulated population of at-risk RH patients. We also 
evaluate a 7th "treat all" strategy wherein all patients with RH are treated 
with a mineralocorticoid-receptor antagonist without further testing at RH 
diagnosis. Changes in systolic blood pressure are subsequently converted into 
gains in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) by applying National Health and 
Nutrition Examination Survey data on concomitant risk factors to an existing 
cardiovascular disease simulation model. QALYs and lifetime costs were then used 
to calculate incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for the competing strategies. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for the strategy of computerized 
tomography (CT) followed by adrenal venous sampling (AVS) was $82,000/QALY 
compared with treat all. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for CT alone and 
AVS alone were $200,000/QALY and $492,000/QALY; the other strategies were more 
costly and less effective. Integrating differential patient-reported 
health-related quality of life adjustments for patients with PA, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios for screening patients with CT followed by AVS, CT 
alone, and AVS alone were $52,000/QALY, $114,000/QALY, and $269,000/QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: CT scanning followed by AVS was a cost-effective strategy to screen 
for PA among patients with RH.

© 2015 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.115.002002
PMCID: PMC4651757
PMID: 26555126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. NCHS Data Brief. 2015 Nov;(218):1-8.

Leading Causes of Death Contributing to Decrease in Life Expectancy Gap Between 
Black and White Populations: United States, 1999-2013.

Kochanek KD, Anderson RN, Arias E.

Life expectancy at birth has increased steadily since 1900 to a record 78.8 
years in 2013. But differences in life expectancy between the white and black 
populations still exist, despite a decrease in the life expectancy gap from 5.9 
years in 1999 to 3.6 years in 2013. Differences in the change over time in the 
leading causes of death for the black and white populations have contributed to 
this decrease in the gap in life expectancy. Between 1999 and 2013, the decrease 
in the life expectancy gap between the black and white populations was mostly 
due to greater decreases in mortality from heart disease, cancer, HIV disease, 
unintentional injuries, and perinatal conditions among the black population. 
Similarly, the decrease in the gap between black and white male life expectancy 
was due to greater decreases in death rates for HIV disease, cancer, 
unintentional injuries, heart disease, and perinatal conditions in black males. 
For black females, greater decreases in diabetes death rates, combined with 
decreased rates for heart disease and HIV disease, were the major causes 
contributing to the decrease in the life expectancy gap with white females. The 
decrease in the gap in life expectancy between the white and black populations 
would have been larger than 3.6 years if not for increases in death rates for 
the black population for aortic aneurysm, Alzheimer’s disease, and maternal 
conditions. For black males, the causes that showed increases in death rates 
over white males were hypertension, aortic aneurysm, diabetes, Alzheimer’s 
disease, and kidney disease, while the causes that showed increases in death 
rates for black females were Alzheimer’s disease, maternal conditions, and 
atherosclerosis. This NCHS Data Brief is the second in a series of data briefs 
that explore the causes of death contributing to differences in life expectancy 
between detailed ethnic and racial populations in the United States. The first 
data brief focused on the racial differences in life expectancy for a single 
year, 2010 (3).

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 26556175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. J Food Sci. 2016 Jan;81(1):M97-105. doi: 10.1111/1750-3841.13141. Epub 2015
Nov  10.

Antimicrobial Effect of Malpighia Punicifolia and Extension of Water Buffalo 
Steak Shelf-Life.

Tremonte P(1), Sorrentino E(1), Succi M(1), Tipaldi L(1), Pannella G(1), Ibañez 
E(2), Mendiola JA(2), Di Renzo T(3), Reale A(3), Coppola R(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Agricultural, Environmental and Food Sciences (DiAAA), Univ. of 
Molise, via De Sanctis, 86100 Campobasso, Italy.
(2)Inst. of Food Science Research, CIAL (CSIC-UAM), c/Nicolás Cabrera, 9, 28049, 
Madrid, Spain.
(3)Inst. of Food Science of the National Research Council (ISA-CNR), via Roma, 
64, 83100, Avellino, Italy.

In the present study, a multiple approach was used to characterize Malpighia 
punicifolia extract and to evaluate its inhibitory activity against several meat 
spoilage bacteria. First, volatile fraction, vitamins and phenolic compounds of 
the extract obtained by supercritical fluid extraction were determined by GC-MS 
and HPLC. Then, the antimicrobial action of the extract was in vitro evaluated 
against Pseudomonas putida DSMZ 291(T), Pseudomonas fluorescens DSMZ 50009(T), 
Pseudomonas fragi DSMZ 3456(T), and Brochothrix thermosphacta DSMZ 20171(T) by 
the agar well diffusion assay and by the agar dilution test. Based on the 
results of the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) against the assayed 
bacteria, 4 different concentrations of the extract were used in a challenge 
test on water buffalo steaks stored for 21 d at 4 °C. Results of chemical 
analyses showed that M. punicifolia extract is characterized by the presence of 
several compounds, already described for their antimicrobial (phenolic acids, 
flavonones, and furanes) and antioxidant (ascorbic acid) properties. The in 
vitro detection of antimicrobial activities highlighted that the extract, used 
at 8% concentration, was able to inhibit all the target bacteria. Moreover, very 
low MIC values (up to 0.025%) were detected. In situ tests, performed on water 
buffalo steaks treated with the extract in the concentration range 0.025% to 
0.05%, showed a strong inhibition of both intentionally inoculated bacteria and 
naturally occurring microorganisms. Positive results, in terms of color and 
odor, were also observed during the entire storage of steaks preserved with the 
extract.

Extract from Malpighia punicifolia (Acerola) could play an important role in the 
preservation of fresh red meat. Our study demonstrated the efficacy of the 
extract in the shelf‐life extension of refrigerated water buffalo meat, 
characterized by high iron content. In fact, the extract was able to inhibit 
several meat spoilage microorganisms, prolonging the shelf‐life of the product. 
Our study also showed the role of the extract in the preservation of important 
sensory parameters of meat, such as color and odor. In conclusion, M. 
punicifolia extract can be used as bio‐preservative for fresh red meat, allowing 
its shelf ‐life extension.

© 2015 The Authors. Journal of Food Science published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. 
on behalf of Institute of Food Technologists.

DOI: 10.1111/1750-3841.13141
PMCID: PMC4737311
PMID: 26556435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Contemp Oncol (Pozn). 2015;19(4):333-7. doi: 10.5114/wo.2015.53249. Epub
2015  Sep 28.

Understanding the purpose of treatment and expectations in patients with 
inoperable lung cancer treated with palliative chemotherapy.

Nowicki A(1), Woźniak K(1), Krajnik M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology Nursing, Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz, Nicolaus 
Copernicus University in Toruń, Poland.
(2)Department and Unit of Palliative Care, Collegium Medicum, Nicolaus 
Copernicus University in Toruń, Poland.

AIM OF THE STUDY: Informing cancer patients about various types of treatment and 
their adverse effects and communicating negative information is an important 
element of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. Understanding the purpose of 
treatment and expectations, and socio-demographic factors in patients undergoing 
palliative chemotherapy because of lung cancer.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study included 100 patients with lung cancer at the 
age of 40-80 years (mean 63.1) in the Oncology Center in Bydgoszcz in 2013-2014. 
The diagnostic survey method with the author's questionnaire was used.
RESULTS: Forty-one percent of patients were convinced that the purpose of 
chemotherapy is to cure the disease. Both inhabitants of small towns (population 
below 50 thousand) and large villages (p = 0.09) were similarly convinced about 
the effectiveness of chemotherapy. Seventy-three percent of inhabitants of small 
towns and 79% of country dwellers (p = 0.005) thought that chemotherapy is aimed 
at improving the quality of life. Patients with very good economic conditions 
responded that chemotherapy is designed to improve the quality of life more 
often than those with good and bad economic conditions, 90%, 88% and 60%, 
respectively (p = 0.001). With the increase in population the number of people 
who claimed that palliative chemotherapy prolongs their life increased, 71%, 77% 
and 90%, respectively (p = 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: The knowledge of patients with lung cancer about palliative 
chemotherapy is insufficient. Almost half of them do not understand the purpose 
of treatment and hope that chemotherapy will cure them of the disease. Most 
patients know that the aim of chemotherapy is to alleviate symptoms and improve 
quality of life and prolong their life. Half of the patients want to obtain 
information on treatment and half of them about life expectancy. Almost half of 
the patients feel stress and anxiety towards chemotherapy. Most patients do not 
use the help of a psychologist and do not feel such a need.

DOI: 10.5114/wo.2015.53249
PMCID: PMC4631298
PMID: 26557783


340. Arab J Urol. 2012 Sep;10(3):265-72. doi: 10.1016/j.aju.2012.04.003. Epub
2012  Jun 5.

Stone formation in the Middle Eastern Gulf States: A review.

Robertson WG(1).

Author information:
(1)The London Centre for Kidney Stone Research, Royal Free and University 
College London Medical School, Department of Physiology (Centre for Nephrology), 
Rowland Hill Street, London NW3 2PF, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To review the possible causes of the high incidence of urolithiasis 
in the oil-rich Gulf States.
METHODS: Data were extracted from published reports on the incidence of 
urolithiasis, affluence and diet in the Gulf States, various Western countries 
and China.
RESULTS: There are strong relationships: (a) between the life-expectancy of 
stones in men and the Gross National Income (GNI) per capita of these countries; 
and (b) between the daily consumption of animal protein and GNI per capita. 
Together these data suggest that the occurrence of stones is proportional to the 
intake of animal protein, although they also indicate that there are additional 
factors that further increase the risk of urolithiasis in the populations of the 
Gulf. The consumption of oxalate in the Gulf is three times higher and that of 
calcium a half of what it is in Western countries. Thus, the average 
oxalate/calcium ratio in the intestines of the Gulf populations is five to six 
times higher than that in Western populations, leading to enteric hyperoxaluria 
and an increased risk of calcium-oxalate stone formation. The risk is further 
accentuated by the lower urine volumes, due to the hot, dry climate of the 
region, and lower excretions of citrate, from the highly acidic urine resulting 
from the high intake of animal protein. There is a high incidence of uric 
acid-containing stones from the acidic urine and the hyperuricosuria caused by 
the high intake of purine.
CONCLUSIONS: The high incidence of urolithiasis in the Gulf is due to an adverse 
combination of dietary and environmental factors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aju.2012.04.003
PMCID: PMC4442957
PMID: 26558035


341. J Nerv Ment Dis. 2015 Dec;203(12):891-895. doi:
10.1097/NMD.0000000000000392.

Integrated Care and the Behavioral Health Home: A New Program to Help Improve 
Somatic Health Outcomes for Those With Serious Mental Illness.

Maragakis A(1), RachBeisel J.

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore.

Research indicates that individuals with serious mental illness (SMI) 
consistently have lower access to primary care and much higher rates of 
preventable somatic health problems, like diabetes, hypertension, and 
hyperlipidemia. These higher rates of preventable somatic health problems result 
in poorer quality of life, lower life expectancy, and higher use of expensive 
emergency care. With this growing awareness and the recent health care reform, a 
new program, called the Behavioral Health Home (BHH), has been created to reduce 
barriers that individuals with SMI face when trying to access primary care. This 
report provides information on the how these health disparities were well 
documented at a university-based psychiatric clinical program and the creation 
of a BHH to help address these health needs. Lessons learned from initial 
implementation and future directions of the BHH are discussed.

DOI: 10.1097/NMD.0000000000000392
PMID: 26558502


342. J Anim Ecol. 2016 May;85(3):705-14. doi: 10.1111/1365-2656.12468. Epub 2015
Dec  19.

A benign juvenile environment reduces the strength of antagonistic pleiotropy 
and genetic variation in the rate of senescence.

Kim SY(1), Metcalfe NB(2), Velando A(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Ecoloxía e Bioloxía Animal, Universidade de Vigo, Vigo, 
36310, Spain.
(2)Institute of Biodiversity, Animal Health and Comparative Medicine, College of 
Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, G12 8QQ, 
UK.

The environment can play an important role in the evolution of senescence 
because the optimal allocation between somatic maintenance and reproduction 
depends on external factors influencing life expectancy. The aims of this study 
were to experimentally test whether environmental conditions during early life 
can shape senescence schedules, and if so, to examine whether variation among 
individuals or genotypes with respect to the degree of ageing differs across 
environments. We tested life-history plasticity and quantified genetic effects 
on the pattern of senescence across different environments within a reaction 
norm framework by using an experiment on the three-spined stickleback 
(Gasterosteus aculeatus, Linnaeus) in which F1 families originating from a wild 
annual population experienced different temperature regimes. Male sticklebacks 
that had experienced a more benign environment earlier in life subsequently 
reduced their investment in carotenoid-based sexual signals early in the 
breeding season, and consequently senesced at a slower rate later in the season, 
compared to those that had developed under harsher conditions. This plasticity 
of ageing was genetically determined. Both antagonistic pleiotropy and genetic 
variation in the rate of senescence were evident only in the individuals raised 
in the harsher environment. The experimental demonstration of 
genotype-by-environment interactions influencing the rate of reproductive 
senescence provides interesting insights into the role of the environment in the 
evolution of life histories. The results suggest that benign conditions weaken 
the scope for senescence to evolve and that the dependence on the environment 
may maintain genetic variation under selection.

© 2015 The Authors. Journal of Animal Ecology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd 
on behalf of British Ecological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/1365-2656.12468
PMCID: PMC4991295
PMID: 26559495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Int J Epidemiol. 2017 Apr 1;46(2):e13. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyv206.

Cohort Profile: The Kiang West Longitudinal Population Study (KWLPS)-a platform 
for integrated research and health care provision in rural Gambia.

Hennig BJ(1)(2), Unger SA(1)(3), Dondeh BL(1), Hassan J(1), Hawkesworth 
S(1)(2)(4), Jarjou L(1), Jones KS(4), Moore SE(1)(2)(4), Nabwera HM(1), Ngum 
M(1), Prentice A(1)(4), Sonko B(1), Prentice AM(1)(2), Fulford AJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)MRC International Nutrition Group at MRC Unit The Gambia, Banjul, The Gambia.
(2)MRC International Nutrition Group, London School of Hygiene & Tropical 
Medicine, London, UK.
(3)University of Edinburgh, Department of Child Life and Health, Edinburgh, UK.
(4)MRC Human Nutrition Research, Elsie Widdowson Laboratory, Cambridge, UK and.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyv206
PMCID: PMC5837564
PMID: 26559544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. J Virol. 2015 Nov 11;90(2):1080-7. doi: 10.1128/JVI.02297-15. Print 2016 Jan
15.

Next-Generation mRNA Sequencing Reveals Pyroptosis-Induced CD4+ T Cell Death in 
Early Simian Immunodeficiency Virus-Infected Lymphoid Tissues.

Lu W(1), Demers AJ(1), Ma F(2), Kang G(1), Yuan Z(1), Wan Y(3), Li Y(4), Xu 
J(5), Lewis M(6), Li Q(7).

Author information:
(1)Nebraska Center for Virology, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, 
Nebraska, USA School of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 
Lincoln, Nebraska, USA.
(2)Nebraska Center for Virology, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, 
Nebraska, USA.
(3)Nebraska Center for Virology, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, 
Nebraska, USA School of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 
Lincoln, Nebraska, USA Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center and Institutes of 
Biomedical Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
(4)Nebraska Center for Virology, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, 
Nebraska, USA School of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 
Lincoln, Nebraska, USA College of Life Sciences, Nankai University, Tianjin, 
People's Republic of China.
(5)Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center and Institutes of Biomedical Sciences, 
Fudan University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
(6)BIOQUAL, Inc., Rockville, Maryland, USA.
(7)Nebraska Center for Virology, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, 
Nebraska, USA School of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 
Lincoln, Nebraska, USA qli@unl.edu.

Lymphoid tissues (LTs) are the principal sites where human immunodeficiency 
virus type 1 (HIV-1) replicates and virus-host interactions take place, 
resulting in immunopathology in the form of inflammation, immune activation, and 
CD4(+) T cell death. The HIV-1 pathogenesis in LTs has been extensively studied; 
however, our understanding of the virus-host interactions in the very early 
stages of infection remains incomplete. We investigated virus-host interactions 
in the rectal draining lymph nodes (dLNs) of rhesus macaques at different times 
after intrarectal inoculation (days postinoculation [dpi]) with simian 
immunodeficiency virus (SIV). At 3 dpi, 103 differentially expressed genes 
(DEGs) were detected using next-generation mRNA sequencing (RNA-seq). At 6 and 
10 dpi, concomitant with increased SIV replication, 366 and 1,350 DEGs were 
detected, respectively, including upregulation of genes encoding proteins that 
play a role in innate antiviral immune responses, inflammation, and immune 
activation. Notably, genes (IFI16, caspase-1, and interleukin 1β [IL-1β]) in the 
canonical pyroptosis pathway were significantly upregulated in expression. We 
further validated increased pyroptosis using flow cytometry and found that the 
number of CD4(+) T cells expressing activated caspase-1 protein, the hallmark of 
ongoing pyroptosis, were significantly increased, which is correlated with 
decreased CD4(+) T cells in dLNs. Our results demonstrated that pyroptosis 
contributes to the CD4(+) T cell death in vivo in early SIV infection, which 
suggests that pyroptosis may play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of SIV, and 
by extension, that of HIV-1, since pyroptosis not only induces CD4(+) T cell 
death but also amplifies inflammation and immune activation. Thus, blocking 
CD4(+) T cell pyroptosis could be a complementary treatment to antiretroviral 
therapy.
IMPORTANCE: Although secondary lymphoid tissues (LTs) are principal sites of 
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) replication, inflammation, immune 
activation, and CD4(+) T cell death, immunopathogenesis in LTs during early 
infection remains largely unknown. Using the simian immunodeficiency virus 
(SIV)/rhesus monkey model of HIV rectal infection, we investigated early 
virus-host interactions. Our results revealed elevated potent host responses in 
early infection in LTs, including upregulation of genes involved in antiviral 
immune response, inflammation, and immune activation. Importantly, genes 
involved in the canonical pyroptosis pathway were significantly upregulated, and 
there was a strong correlation between CD4(+) T cell decrease and increased 
number of CD4(+) T cells expressing activated caspase-1 protein, demonstrating 
that pyroptosis contributes to CD4(+) T cell death in vivo in very early SIV 
infection. Our finding suggests that blocking pyroptosis may be able to decrease 
CD4(+) T cell loss during early SIV infection.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02297-15
PMCID: PMC4702687
PMID: 26559826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. PLoS One. 2015 Nov 11;10(11):e0142550. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0142550. 
eCollection 2015.

Potential Cost-Effectiveness of Prenatal Distribution of Misoprostol for 
Prevention of Postpartum Hemorrhage in Uganda.

Lubinga SJ(1)(2), Atukunda EC(3), Wasswa-Ssalongo G(4), Babigumira JB(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research and Policy Program, Department of Pharmacy, 
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, United States of America.
(2)Global Medicines Program, Department of Global Health, University of 
Washington, Seattle, Washington, United States of America.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Mbarara University of Science and Technology, 
Mbarara, Uganda.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Mbarara Regional Referral Hospital, 
Mbarara, Uganda.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2016;11(3):e0152955.

BACKGROUND: In settings where home birth rates are high, prenatal distribution 
of misoprostol has been advocated as a strategy to increase access to 
uterotonics during the third stage of labor to prevent postpartum hemorrhage 
(PPH). Our objective was to project the potential cost-effectiveness of this 
strategy in Uganda from both governmental (the relevant payer) and modified 
societal perspectives.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: To compare prenatal misoprostol distribution to status quo 
(no misoprostol distribution), we developed a decision analytic model that 
tracked the delivery pathways of a cohort of pregnant women from the prenatal 
period, labor to delivery without complications or delivery with PPH, and 
successful treatment or death. Delivery pathway parameters were derived from the 
Uganda Demographic and Health Survey. Incidence of PPH, treatment efficacy, 
adverse event and case fatality rates, access to misoprostol, and health 
resource use and cost data were obtained from published literature and 
supplemented with expert opinion where necessary. We computed the expected 
incidence of PPH, mortality, disability adjusted life years (DALYs), costs and 
incremental cost effectiveness ratios (ICERs). We conducted univariate and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses to examine robustness of our results. In the 
base-case analysis, misoprostol distribution lowered the expected incidence of 
PPH by 1.2% (95% credibility interval (CrI): 0.55%, 1.95%), mortality by 0.08% 
(95% CrI: 0.04%, 0.13%) and DALYs by 0.02 (95% CrI: 0.01, 0.03).” and “ICERs 
were US$181 (95% CrI: 81, 443) per DALY averted from a governmental perspective, 
and US$64 (95% CrI: -84, 260) per DALY averted from a modified societal 
perspective [corrected].
CONCLUSIONS: Prenatal distribution of misoprostol is potentially cost-effective 
in Uganda and should be considered for national-level scale up for prevention of 
PPH.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0142550
PMCID: PMC4641649
PMID: 26560140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


346. Sci Transl Med. 2015 Nov 11;7(313):313ra180. doi:
10.1126/scitranslmed.aac6191.

AAV gene transfer delays disease onset in a TPP1-deficient canine model of the 
late infantile form of Batten disease.

Katz ML(1), Tecedor L(2), Chen Y(2), Williamson BG(3), Lysenko E(2), Wininger 
FA(3), Young WM(1), Johnson GC(4), Whiting RE(3), Coates JR(3), Davidson BL(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65212, USA.
(2)The Raymond G. Perelman Center for Cellular and Molecular Therapeutics, The 
Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(3)Department of Veterinary Medicine and Surgery, College of Veterinary 
Medicine, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA.
(4)Department of Veterinary Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA.
(5)The Raymond G. Perelman Center for Cellular and Molecular Therapeutics, The 
Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. Department of 
Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 
19104, USA. davidsonbl@email.chop.edu.

Comment in
    Ann Transl Med. 2016 Oct;4(Suppl 1):S20.

The most common form of the childhood neurodegenerative disease late infantile 
neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (also called Batten disease) is caused by 
deficiency of the soluble lysosomal enzyme tripeptidyl peptidase 1 (TPP1) 
resulting from mutations in the TPP1 gene. We tested whether TPP1 gene transfer 
to the ependyma, the epithelial lining of the brain ventricular system, in 
TPP1-deficient dogs would be therapeutically beneficial. A one-time 
administration of recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) expressing canine 
TPP1 (rAAV.caTPP1) resulted in high expression of TPP1 predominantly in 
ependymal cells and secretion of the enzyme into the cerebrospinal fluid leading 
