METHODS: Data was extracted retrospectively and coded using the modified CoDe 
protocol for AIDS. Modifiable factors relating to the patient, health system or 
clinical care were identified using a standardised data collection tool.
RESULTS: A total of 177 HIV and/or AIDS patients were identified, 94 (53.1%) 
were male and 120 (68%) had a CD4 count of less than 200 cells/mL. The common 
HIV-related causes of death were tuberculosis (25.9%), renal failure (15.8%), 
Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (11.3%), cryptococcal meningitis (9%), HIV 
wasting syndrome (7.9%) and AIDS-defining malignancy (7.9%). The analysis 
revealed 281 modifiable factors; patient-related factors were the most common 
(153 [54.4%]), followed by health system factors (97 [34.5%]) and healthcare 
personnel factors (31 [11%]).
CONCLUSION: Our findings have highlighted the challenges in overall HIV and/or 
AIDS inpatient care and surrounding primary care facilities. The identification 
of specific modifiable factors can be used to reduce mortality by providing 
training as well as rational monitoring, planning and resource allocation.

Décès liés au VIH/SIDA et facteurs de risques modifiables: Etude descriptive des 
admissions médicales à l’Hôpital intermédiaire d’Oshakati au nord de la Namibie.
CONTEXTE: Le taux élevé d’infection par VIH a réduit l’espérance de vie dans de 
nombreux pays africains. Malgré les efforts mondiaux d’intensification des 
traitements, des soins et des stratégies de prévention, le nombre de décès dus 
aux troubles associés au SIDA est encore élevé. Le personnel de santé local 
pense qu’on peut identifier et améliorer certains facteurs modifiables dans les 
soins des malades du VIH/SIDA.
OBJECTIF: Décrire les causes de mortalité des adultes liées au VIH/SIDA et 
identifier les facteurs modifiables chez les patients admis à l’Hôpital 
Intermédiaire d’Oshakati, au nord de la Namibie.
MÉTHODES: les données ont été extraites et classées rétrospectivement en 
utilisant le protocole modifié CoDe pour le SIDA. Les facteurs modifiables 
concernant le patient, le système de santé ou de soins cliniques ont été 
identifiés à l’aide d’un outil de collecte de données standardisé.
RÉSULTATS: On a identifié au total 177 malades du VIH/SIDA, dont 94 (53.1%) 
étaient des hommes et 120 (68%) avaient un taux de CD4 de moins de 200 cellules 
/ml. Les causes les plus fréquentes de décès lié au HIV étaient la tuberculose 
(25.9%), l’insuffisance rénale (15.8%), la pneumonie Pneumocystis jirovecii 
(11.3%), la méningite cryptococcique (9%), le syndrome de dépérissement lié au 
VIH (7.9%) et les tumeurs liées au SIDA (7.9%). L’analyse a révélé 281 facteurs 
modifiables; les facteurs liés au patient étaient les plus fréquents (153 
[54.4%]), suivis des facteurs liés au système de santé (97 [34.5%]) et ceux liés 
au personnel de santé (31 [11%]).
CONCLUSION: Nos résultats ont mis en évidence les défis des soins en 
hospitalisation des malades du VIH/SIDA et dans les établissements de soins 
primaires avoisinants. On peut utiliser l’identification de facteurs modifiables 
particuliers pour réduire la mortalité en offrant des formations, des contrôles 
rationnels ainsi que la planification et l’allocation des ressources.

DOI: 10.4102/phcfm.v7i1.883
PMCID: PMC4656925
PMID: 26466398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. MAbs. 2016;8(1):87-98. doi: 10.1080/19420862.2015.1106658. Epub 2015 Oct 14.

Improved in vivo anti-tumor effects of IgA-Her2 antibodies through half-life 
extension and serum exposure enhancement by FcRn targeting.

Meyer S(1), Nederend M(1), Jansen JH(1), Reiding KR(2), Jacobino SR(1), Meeldijk 
J(1), Bovenschen N(1)(3), Wuhrer M(2), Valerius T(4), Ubink R(5), Boross P(1), 
Rouwendal G(5), Leusen JH(1).

Author information:
(1)a Laboratory of Translational Immunology; UMC Utrecht ; Utrecht , The 
Netherlands.
(2)b Center for Proteomics and Metabolomics; Leiden University Medical Center ; 
Leiden , The Netherlands.
(3)c Department of Pathology ; UMC Utrecht ; Utrecht , The Netherlands.
(4)d Division of Stem Cell Transplantation and Immunotherapy ; Department of 
Internal Medicine II; Christian-Albrechts-University ; Kiel , Germany.
(5)e Synthon Biopharmaceuticals BV ; Nijmegen , The Netherlands.

Erratum in
    MAbs. 2017 Jan;9(1):165.

Antibody therapy is a validated treatment approach for several malignancies. All 
currently clinically applied therapeutic antibodies (Abs) are of the IgG 
isotype. However, not all patients respond to this therapy and relapses can 
occur. IgA represents an alternative isotype for antibody therapy that engages 
FcαRI expressing myeloid effector cells, such as neutrophils and monocytes. IgA 
Abs have been shown to effectively kill tumor cells both in vitro and in vivo. 
However, due to the short half-life of IgA Abs in mice, daily injections are 
required to reach an effect comparable to IgG Abs. The relatively long half-life 
of IgG Abs and serum albumin arises from their capability of interacting with 
the neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn). As IgA Abs lack a binding site for FcRn, we 
generated IgA Abs with the variable regions of the Her2-specific Ab trastuzumab 
and attached an albumin-binding domain (ABD) to the heavy or light chain 
(HCABD/LCABD) to extend their serum half-life. These modified Abs were able to 
bind albumin from different species in vitro. Furthermore, tumor cell lysis of 
IgA-Her2-LCABD Abs in vitro was similar to unmodified IgA-Her2 Abs. 
Pharmacokinetic studies in mice revealed that the serum exposure and half-life 
of the modified IgA-Her2 Abs was extended. In a xenograft mouse model, the 
modified IgA1 Abs exhibited a slightly, but significantly, improved anti-tumor 
response compared to the unmodified Ab. In conclusion, empowering IgA Abs with 
albumin-binding capacity results in in vitro and in vivo functional Abs with an 
enhanced exposure and prolonged half-life.

DOI: 10.1080/19420862.2015.1106658
PMCID: PMC4966554
PMID: 26466856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Europace. 2016 Jul;18(7):1043-8. doi: 10.1093/europace/euv245. Epub 2015 Oct
14.

Initial experience with the TightRail™ Rotating Mechanical Dilator Sheath for 
transvenous lead extraction.

Aytemir K(1), Yorgun H(1), Canpolat U(2), Şahiner ML(1), Kaya EB(1), Evranos 
B(1), Özer N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Hacettepe University Faculty of Medicine, 06100 
Sıhhiye, Ankara, Turkey.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Hacettepe University Faculty of Medicine, 06100 
Sıhhiye, Ankara, Turkey dru_canpolat@yahoo.com.

AIMS: In parallel with increasing implantation rates and patients' longer life 
expectancy, the need for transvenous lead extraction (TLE) as a specialized 
procedure has shown a significant growth over years. Herein, we aimed to present 
our initial experience in TLE by using a novel TightRail™ Rotating Mechanical 
Dilator Sheath.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Between October 2014 and March 2015, a total of 42 leads in 
23 patients were removed at our tertiary referral centre. All of the extracted 
leads were >12 months old and indications for extraction were based on the 
recommendations of the Heart Rhythm Society. The leads were removed by using the 
TightRail™ Mechanical Dilator Sheath (Spectranetics Corporation) with the 
rotational cutting force only. Indications for lead removal included cardiac 
device infection in 12 (52.2%) cases, lead malfunction in the 10 (43.5%) cases, 
and upgrade to cardiac resynchronization therapy-deﬁbrillator (CRT-D) in the 
remaining 1 case (4.3%). The extracted devices were pacemaker in 10 (43.4%) 
cases, implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) in 7 (30.4%) cases, and CRT 
in the remaining 6 (26.0%) subjects. Among 42 leads, 10 (23.8%) were right 
ventricular, 14 (33.3%) were atrial, 13 (31.0%) were defibrilator, and 5 (11.9%) 
were coronary sinus electrodes. The median time from implantation was 72 
(18-216) months. Complete procedural success with TightRail™ system alone was 
achieved in 22 (95.7%) patients (41/42 leads) and overall clinical success was 
100%. One right ventricular lead was completely removed with the help of femoral 
snare. All the patients were discharged uneventfully without any complication.
CONCLUSION: Our preliminary data with small sample size show that TightRail™ 
Mechanical Dilator Sheath is a new useful tool for chronically implanted 
pacemaker (PM)/ICD leads. Continued investigation including large patient cohort 
is required to evaluate success and complication rates in comparison to other 
tools and techniques.

Published on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. 
© The Author 2015. For permissions please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/euv245
PMID: 26467403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. J Intern Med. 2016 Feb;279(2):180-91. doi: 10.1111/joim.12443. Epub 2015 Oct
14.

Decreased levels of stem cell factor in subjects with incident coronary events.

Wigren M(1), Rattik S(1), Hultman K(1), Björkbacka H(1), Nordin-Fredrikson G(1), 
Bengtsson E(1), Hedblad B(1), Siegbahn A(2), Gonçalves I(1)(3), Nilsson J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Lund University, Malmö, Skåne, Sweden.
(2)Department of Medical Sciences, Clinical Chemistry and Science for Life 
Laboratory, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(3)Department of Cardiology - Coronary Diseases, Skåne University Hospital, 
Malmö, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: It has been proposed that vascular progenitor cells play an 
important role in vascular repair, but their possible clinical importance in 
cardiovascular disease has not been fully characterized. Vascular endothelial 
growth factor A, placental growth factor and stem cell factor (SCF) are three 
growth factors that are important in recruiting vascular progenitor cells. In 
this study, we investigated the association between the plasma levels of these 
growth factors and incident coronary events (CEs).
METHODS: Levels of the three growth factors were measured using the proximity 
extension assay technique in baseline plasma samples from 384 subjects with a 
first CE (mean follow-up 14.0 ± 4.3 years) and 409 event-free control subjects 
matched by sex and age, as well as in homogenates from 201 endarterectomy 
specimens.
RESULTS: After controlling for known cardiovascular disease risk factors in a 
Cox regression model, subjects in the lowest SCF tertile had a hazard ratio of 
1.70 (95% confidence interval 1.14-2.54) compared with subjects in the highest 
SCF tertile. Lower SCF levels were also associated with more severe carotid 
disease, less fibrous atherosclerotic plaques and an increased incidence of 
heart failure. Expression of the SCF receptor c-kit was demonstrated in the 
subendothelial layer and fibrous cap of human atherosclerotic plaques. Smokers 
and subjects with diabetes had decreased levels of SCF compared with control 
subjects.
CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, this is the first clinical study to provide 
evidence to support a key role for SCF and progenitor cells in vascular repair. 
We suggest that the SCF-c-kit pathway may be a promising biomarker and 
therapeutic target in cardiovascular disease.

© 2015 The Association for the Publication of the Journal of Internal Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/joim.12443
PMID: 26467529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Insects. 2011 Apr 29;2(2):173-85. doi: 10.3390/insects2020173.

Population Growth Potential of the Bed Bug, Cimex lectularius L.: A Life Table 
Analysis.

Polanco AM(1), Brewster CC(2), Miller DM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Virginia Tech, 216A Price Hall, Blacksburg, VA 
24061, USA. apolanco@vt.edu.
(2)Department of Entomology, Virginia Tech, 216A Price Hall, Blacksburg, VA 
24061, USA. carlyleb@vt.edu.
(3)Department of Entomology, Virginia Tech, 216A Price Hall, Blacksburg, VA 
24061, USA. dinim@vt.edu.

Experimental life tables were constructed and analyzed for three strains of the 
common bed bug: a pyrethroid-susceptible laboratory strain (HS), a highly 
resistant field strain (RR), and a field strain with a declining level of 
resistance (KR). Egg to adult survival in the RR strain was 94% compared with 
79% and 69% in the HS and KR strains, respectively. The RR strain also developed 
significantly faster from egg to adult (~35 days) than the other two strains 
(~40 days). Analysis of a survivorship and fecundity life table for the RR 
strain produced the following results. The average life expectancy for a newly 
laid egg was ~143 days, and that of a newly molted adult was ~127 days. Females 
produced an average of 0.64 daughter eggs/day with the highest weekly production 
during the fifth week of adult life. Analysis of daily reproductive parity 
showed that females produced 1-3 and 4-6 eggs on 79 and 21% of the days, 
respectively, when egg laying occurred. The net reproductive rate (R₀) of the RR 
strain was ~35, which represents a 35-fold increase in the population per 
generation (~92 days). The intrinsic rate of increase, r, was 0.054 indicating 
that the population multiplies 1.1 times/female/day (λ) and doubles in size 
every 13 days. The stable age distribution (cx) was dominated by nymphs (54%), 
followed by eggs (34%) and adults (12%). Reproductive values (vx) for the strain 
increased from egg to the adult stage.

DOI: 10.3390/insects2020173
PMCID: PMC4553456
PMID: 26467620


58. Insects. 2011 Jul 1;2(3):297-325. doi: 10.3390/insects2030297.

The Invertebrate Life of New Zealand: A Phylogeographic Approach.

Trewick SA(1), Wallis GP(2), Morgan-Richards M(3).

Author information:
(1)Phoenix Lab, Ecology Group, Institute of Natural Resources, Massey 
University, Private Bag 11-222, Palmerston North 4442, New Zealand. 
s.trewick@massey.ac.nz.
(2)Department of Zoology, University of Otago, P.O. Box 56, Dunedin North 9016, 
New Zealand. g.wallis@otago.ac.nz.
(3)Phoenix Lab, Ecology Group, Institute of Natural Resources, Massey 
University, Private Bag 11-222, Palmerston North 4442, New Zealand. 
m.morgan-richards@massey.ac.nz.

Phylogeography contributes to our knowledge of regional biotas by integrating 
spatial and genetic information. In New Zealand, comprising two main islands and 
hundreds of smaller ones, phylogeography has transformed the way we view our 
biology and allowed comparison with other parts of the world. Here we review 
studies on New Zealand terrestrial and freshwater invertebrates. We find little 
evidence of congruence among studies of different taxa; instead there are 
signatures of partitioning in many different regions and expansion in different 
directions. A number of studies have revealed unusually high genetic distances 
within putative species, and in those where other data confirm this taxonomy, 
the revealed phylogeographic structure contrasts with northern hemisphere 
continental systems. Some taxa show a signature indicative of Pliocene tectonic 
events encompassing land extension and mountain building, whereas others are 
consistent with range expansion following the last glacial maximum (LGM) of the 
Pleistocene. There is some indication that montane taxa are more partitioned 
than lowland ones, but this observation is obscured by a broad range of patterns 
within the sample of lowland/forest taxa. We note that several geophysical 
processes make similar phylogeographic predictions for the same landscape, 
rendering confirmation of the drivers of partitioning difficult. Future 
multi-gene analyses where applied to testable alternative hypotheses may help 
resolve further the rich evolutionary history of New Zealand's invertebrates.

DOI: 10.3390/insects2030297
PMCID: PMC4553545
PMID: 26467729


59. J Telemed Telecare. 2016 Sep;22(6):363-8. doi: 10.1177/1357633X15608984. Epub
 2015 Oct 14.

Telemedicine compared with standard care in type 2 diabetes mellitus: A 
randomized trial in an outpatient clinic.

Rasmussen OW(1), Lauszus FF(2), Loekke M(3).

Author information:
(1)Medical Department, Kolding Hospital, Denmark ole.winther.rasmussen@rsyd.dk.
(2)Gynecological Department, Herning Hospital, Denmark.
(3)Medical Department, Kolding Hospital, Denmark.

INTRODUCTION: Good metabolic control is important in type 2 diabetes mellitus to 
improve quality of life, work ability and life expectancy, and the use of 
telemedicine has proved efficient as an add-on to the usual treatment. However, 
few studies in type 2 diabetes patients have directly compared telemedicine with 
conventional outpatient treatment, and we wanted to evaluate whether 
telemedicine, compared with standard care, provides equivalent clinical 
outcomes.
METHODS: Forty patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus allocated from October 
2011-July 2012 were randomized to either treatment at home by video conferences 
only or standard outpatient treatment. Primary outcomes were HbA1c and blood 
glucose levels and secondary outcomes were 24-hour blood pressure, cholesterol 
levels and albuminuria. The video-telephone was a broadband solution installed 
and serviced by the Danish Telephone Company (TDC).
RESULTS: The improvements in the two treatments, given as changes in percentage 
of telemedicine vs standard, showed significant differences in HbA1c (-15 vs 
-11%), mean blood glucose (-18 vs -13%) and in cholesterol (-7 vs -6%). No 
differences in LDL (-4 vs -6%), weight (-1 vs 2%), diastolic diurnal blood 
pressure (-1 vs -7%), and systolic diurnal blood pressure (0 vs -1%) were found. 
Nine consultations were missed in the standard outpatient group and none in the 
telemedicine group.
CONCLUSIONS: In the direct comparison of home video consultations vs standard 
outpatient treatment in type 2 diabetes mellitus, telemedicine was a safe and 
available option with favourable outcomes after six months treatment.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/1357633X15608984
PMID: 26468213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. J Biol Chem. 2015 Dec 4;290(49):29361-74. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M115.686915. Epub 
2015 Oct 14.

FYCO1 Contains a C-terminally Extended, LC3A/B-preferring LC3-interacting Region 
(LIR) Motif Required for Efficient Maturation of Autophagosomes during Basal 
Autophagy.

Olsvik HL(1), Lamark T(1), Takagi K(2), Larsen KB(1), Evjen G(1), Øvervatn A(1), 
Mizushima T(2), Johansen T(3).

Author information:
(1)From the Molecular Cancer Research Group, Institute of Medical Biology, 
University of Tromsø - The Arctic University of Norway, 9037 Tromsø, Norway and.
(2)the Picobiology Institute, Graduate School of Life Science, University of 
Hyogo, Hyogo 651-2197, Japan.
(3)From the Molecular Cancer Research Group, Institute of Medical Biology, 
University of Tromsø - The Arctic University of Norway, 9037 Tromsø, Norway and 
terje.johansen@uit.no.

FYCO1 (FYVE and coiled-coil protein 1) is a transport adaptor that binds to 
phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate, to Rab7, and to LC3 (microtubule-associated 
protein 1 light chain 3) to mediate transport of late endosomes and 
autophagosomes along microtubules in the plus end direction. We have previously 
shown that FYCO1 binds to LC3B via a 19-amino acid sequence containing a 
putative core LC3-interacting region (LIR) motif. Here, we show that FYCO1 
preferentially binds to LC3A and -B. By peptide array-based two-dimensional 
mutational scans of the binding to LC3B, we found FYCO1 to contain a 
C-terminally extended LIR domain. We determined the crystal structure of a 
complex between a 13-amino acid LIR peptide from FYCO1 and LC3B at 1.53 Å 
resolution. By combining the structural information with mutational analyses, 
both the basis for the C-terminally extended LIR and the specificity for LC3A/B 
binding were revealed. FYCO1 contains a 9-amino acid-long F-type LIR motif. In 
addition to the canonical aromatic residue at position 1 and the hydrophobic 
residue at position 3, an acidic residue and a hydrophobic residue at positions 
8 and 9, respectively, are important for efficient binding to LC3B explaining 
the C-terminal extension. The specificity for binding to LC3A/B is due to the 
interaction between Asp(1285) in FYCO1 and His(57) in LC3B. To address the 
functional significance of the LIR motif of FYCO1, we generated FYCO1 knock-out 
cells that subsequently were reconstituted with GFP-FYCO1 WT and LIR mutant 
constructs. Our data show that FYCO1 requires a functional LIR motif to 
facilitate efficient maturation of autophagosomes under basal conditions, 
whereas starvation-induced autophagy was unaffected.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M115.686915
PMCID: PMC4705940
PMID: 26468287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. PeerJ. 2015 Sep 29;3:e1240. doi: 10.7717/peerj.1240. eCollection 2015.

Population subdivision of the surf clam Mactra chinensis in the East China Sea: 
Changjiang River outflow is not the sole driver.

Ni G(1), Li Q(1), Ni L(2), Kong L(1), Yu H(1).

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of Mariculture, Ministry of Education, Ocean University of 
China , Qingdao , China.
(2)The Key Laboratory of Mariculture, Ministry of Education, Ocean University of 
China , Qingdao , China ; Shandong Fisheries Technical Extension Station , Jinan 
, China.

The northwestern Pacific, characterized by unique tectonic and hydrological 
settings, has greatly intrigued marine phylogeographers. However, current 
studies mostly focus on the influence of Pleistocene isolation of sea basins in 
population structure of species in the region, leaving the contribution of other 
factors (such as freshwater outflow and environmental gradients) largely 
unexploited. Here we shed light on the question by investigating phylogeography 
of the surf clam Mactra chinensis in the East China Sea (ECS). Genetic 
information was acquired from 501 specimens collected from its main distribution 
in the region, represented by mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I (COI) and nine 
polymorphic microsatellite loci. A shallow and star-like phylogeny was revealed 
for all COI haplotypes, indicating the origin of populations from a single 
refugium. Although no divergent lineages existed, population subdivision was 
detected in both data sets. The most striking pattern was the significant 
differentiation between populations north and south of a biogeographic 
boundary-the Changjiang Estuary, suggesting a barrier effect of the freshwater 
outflow to gene flow. For the northern group, substructure was revealed by COI 
result as one southernmost population was significant different from other ones. 
Clear latitude gradations in allele frequencies were revealed by microsatellite 
analyses, likely influenced by environmental gradient factors such as 
temperature. Our results demonstrate that genetic subdivision can arise for 
populations within the ECS despite they have a single origin, and multiple 
mechanisms including Changjiang River outflow, environmental gradient factors 
and life-history traits may act in combination in the process.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.1240
PMCID: PMC4592156
PMID: 26468432

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing 
interests.


62. The Growing Gap in Life Expectancy by Income: Implications for Federal
Programs  and Policy Responses.

Committee on the Long-Run Macroeconomic Effects of the Aging U.S. 
Population—Phase II; Committee on Population; Division of Behavioral and Social 
Sciences and Education; Board on Mathematical Sciences and Their Applications; 
Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences; The National Academies of 
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine.

Washington (DC): National Academies Press (US); 2015 Sep 17.

The U.S. population is aging. Social Security projections suggest that between 
2013 and 2050, the population aged 65 and over will almost double, from 45 
million to 86 million. One key driver of population aging is ongoing increases 
in life expectancy. Average U.S. life expectancy was 67 years for males and 73 
years for females five decades ago; the averages are now 76 and 81, 
respectively. It has long been the case that better-educated, higher-income 
people enjoy longer life expectancies than less-educated, lower-income people. 
The causes include early life conditions, behavioral factors (such as nutrition, 
exercise, and smoking behaviors), stress, and access to health care services, 
all of which can vary across education and income. Our major entitlement 
programs – Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, and Supplemental Security Income 
– have come to deliver disproportionately larger lifetime benefits to 
higher-income people because, on average, they are increasingly collecting those 
benefits over more years than others. This report studies the impact the growing 
gap in life expectancy has on the present value of lifetime benefits that people 
with higher or lower earnings will receive from major entitlement programs. The 
analysis presented in The Growing Gap in Life Expectancy by Income goes beyond 
an examination of the existing literature by providing the first comprehensive 
estimates of how lifetime benefits are affected by the changing distribution of 
life expectancy. The report also explores, from a lifetime benefit perspective, 
how the growing gap in longevity affects traditional policy analyses of reforms 
to the nation's leading entitlement programs. This in-depth analysis of the 
economic impacts of the longevity gap will inform debate and assist decision 
makers, economists, and researchers.

Copyright 2015 by the National Academy of Sciences. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.17226/19015
PMID: 26468563


63. PLoS One. 2015 Oct 15;10(10):e0140693. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0140693. 
eCollection 2015.

Risk of Second Primary Cancer among Prostate Cancer Patients in Korea: A 
Population-Based Cohort Study.

Joung JY(1), Lim J(2), Oh CM(2), Jung KW(2), Cho H(2), Kim SH(1), Seo HK(1), 
Park WS(1), Chung J(1), Lee KH(1), Won YJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Prostate Cancer, National Cancer Center, Goyang, Korea.
(2)Cancer Registration and Statistics Branch, National Cancer Center, Goyang, 
Korea.

As patients with prostate cancer have a long life expectancy, there is 
increasing interest in predicting the risk of development of a second primary 
cancer (SPC), and we therefore designed this study to estimate the overall risk 
of developing SPCs among Korean prostate cancer patients. We used a 
population-based cohort from the Korean Central Cancer Registry composed of 
55,378 men diagnosed with a first primary prostate cancer between 1993 and 2011. 
Standardized incidence ratios (SIRs) of SPCs were analyzed by age at diagnosis, 
latency period, period of diagnosis, and type of initial treatment. Survival 
analysis was stratified by development of SPC. Men with primary prostate cancer 
had an overall lower risk of developing an SPC [SIR = 0.75; 95% CI, 0.72-0.78], 
which was significant for SPCs of the esophagus, stomach, rectum, liver, 
gallbladder, bile duct, pancreas, larynx, lung, and bronchus. In contrast, there 
were significant increases in the risk of bladder and thyroid cancers, which 
tended to decrease after longer follow-up. Patients who received initial 
radiation therapy had an increased risk of subsequent rectal cancer, although 
this was still lower than that of the general male population. Other urinary 
tract cancers including those of the kidney, renal pelvis, and ureter tended to 
be associated with a higher risk of developing an SPC, but this difference did 
not reach statistical significance. The patients with prostate cancer and SPC 
had lower overall survival rates than those with one primary prostate cancer. 
Our findings suggest that men with prostate cancer have a 25% lower risk of 
developing an SPC in Korea, but a higher risk of developing subsequent bladder 
and thyroid cancers, which suggests the need for continued cancer surveillance 
among prostate cancer survivors.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0140693
PMCID: PMC4607403
PMID: 26469085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


64. IEEE/ACM Trans Comput Biol Bioinform. 2017 Jul-Aug;14(4):830-843. doi: 
10.1109/TCBB.2015.2489662. Epub 2015 Oct 12.

cuBLASTP: Fine-Grained Parallelization of Protein Sequence Search on CPU+GPU.

Zhang J, Wang H, Feng WC.

BLAST, short for Basic Local Alignment Search Tool, is a ubiquitous tool used in 
the life sciences for pairwise sequence search. However, with the advent of 
next-generation sequencing (NGS), whether at the outset or downstream from NGS, 
the exponential growth of sequence databases is outstripping our ability to 
analyze the data. While recent studies have utilized the graphics processing 
unit (GPU) to speedup the BLAST algorithm for searching protein sequences (i.e., 
BLASTP), these studies use coarse-grained parallelism, where one sequence 
alignment is mapped to only one thread. Such an approach does not efficiently 
utilize the capabilities of a GPU, particularly due to the irregularity of 
BLASTP in both execution paths and memory-access patterns. To address the above 
shortcomings, we present a fine-grained approach to parallelize BLASTP, where 
each individual phase of sequence search is mapped to many threads on a GPU. 
This approach, which we refer to as cuBLASTP, reorders data-access patterns and 
reduces divergent branches of the most time-consuming phases (i.e., hit 
detection and ungapped extension). In addition, cuBLASTP optimizes the remaining 
phases (i.e., gapped extension and alignment with trace back) on a multicore CPU 
and overlaps their execution with the phases running on the GPU.

DOI: 10.1109/TCBB.2015.2489662
PMID: 26469393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2015;159:A9234.

[A new perspective on measuring quality of life using the capability approach].

[Article in Dutch]

van Hoof M(1), Jeuring SF, Stokroos RJ, Joore MA.

Author information:
(1)Maastricht Universitair Medisch Centrum, Maastricht.

Healthcare evaluations are used for optimal allocation of healthcare budgets. 
Most studies assess the effects of care in terms of Quality-Adjusted Life Years 
(QALY): the product of survival and quality of life per life year. Currently, 
quality of life is determined by questionnaires that measure mostly in terms of 
what a person actually 'does' or 'is' (functioning). This approach has some 
practical and ethical limitations which affect how we value our healthcare 
system. In the past decades, an alternative movement called the capability 
approach has attracted considerable interest. This philosophy advocates enabling 
people in terms of capabilities: that is, the extent to which a person is able 
or willing to function. This ensures that people have the freedom to achieve 
without a particular belief as to what constitutes a good life being imposed 
upon them. The ICEpop CAPability measure for Adults (ICECAP) questionnaire was 
developed in the United Kingdom by Coast et al. to evaluate quality of life 
based on this approach. Dutch translations of ICECAP-A (for adults) and ICECAP-O 
(for the elderly) are available and may prove to be especially beneficial in 
fields where treatment effects are not confined to health gains.

PMID: 26469731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2016 Nov;82(5):1245-1266. doi: 10.1111/bcp.12804. Epub
2015  Dec 26.

Targeting molecules to medicine with mTOR, autophagy and neurodegenerative 
disorders.

Maiese K(1).

Author information:
(1)Cellular and Molecular Signaling, Newark, New Jersey, 07101, USA. 
wntin75@yahoo.com.

Neurodegenerative disorders are significantly increasing in incidence as the age 
of the global population continues to climb with improved life expectancy. At 
present, more than 30 million individuals throughout the world are impacted by 
acute and chronic neurodegenerative disorders with limited treatment strategies. 
The mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR), also known as the mammalian target 
of rapamycin, is a 289 kDa serine/threonine protein kinase that offers exciting 
possibilities for novel treatment strategies for a host of neurodegenerative 
diseases that include Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's 
disease, epilepsy, stroke and trauma. mTOR governs the programmed cell death 
pathways of apoptosis and autophagy that can determine neuronal stem cell 
development, precursor cell differentiation, cell senescence, cell survival and 
ultimate cell fate. Coupled to the cellular biology of mTOR are a number of 
considerations for the development of novel treatments involving the fine 
control of mTOR signalling, tumourigenesis, complexity of the apoptosis and 
autophagy relationship, functional outcome in the nervous system, and the 
intimately linked pathways of growth factors, phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI 
3-K), protein kinase B (Akt), AMP activated protein kinase (AMPK), silent mating 
type information regulation two homologue one (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) (SIRT1) 
and others. Effective clinical translation of the cellular signalling mechanisms 
of mTOR offers provocative avenues for new drug development in the nervous 
system tempered only by the need to elucidate further the intricacies of the 
mTOR pathway.

© 2015 The British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bcp.12804
PMCID: PMC5061806
PMID: 26469771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. J Econ Entomol. 2014 Dec;107(6):2130-6. doi: 10.1603/EC14261.

Degree-Day Benchmarks for Sparganothis sulfureana (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae) 
Development in Cranberries.

Deutsch AE(1), Rodriguez-Saona CR(2), Kyryczenko-Roth V(2), Sojka J(3), Zalapa 
JE(4), Steffan SA(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53706.
(2)Department of Entomology, Rutgers University, P.E. Marucci Center for 
Blueberry and Cranberry Research and Extension, 125A Lake Oswego Rd., 
Chatsworth, NJ 08019.
(3)Lady Bug IPM, Pittsville, WI 54466.
(4)USDA-ARS Vegetable Crops Research Unit, Madison, WI 53706.
(5)Department of Entomology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53706. 
USDA-ARS Vegetable Crops Research Unit, Madison, WI 53706. 
steffan@entomology.wisc.edu.

Sparganothis sulfureana Clemens is a severe pest of cranberries in the Midwest 
and northeast United States. Timing for insecticide applications has relied 
primarily on calendar dates and pheromone trap-catch; however, abiotic 
conditions can vary greatly, rendering such methods unreliable as indicators of 
optimal treatment timing. Phenology models based on degree-day (DD) accrual 
represent a proven, superior approach to assessing the development of insect 
populations, particularly for larvae. Previous studies of S. sulfureana 
development showed that the lower and upper temperature thresholds for larval 
development were 10.0 and 29.9°C (49.9 and 85.8°F), respectively. We used these 
thresholds to generate DD accumulations specific to S. sulfureana, and then 
linked these DD accumulations to discrete biological events observed during S. 
sulfureana development in Wisconsin and New Jersey cranberries. Here, we provide 
the DDs associated with flight initiation, peak flight, flight termination, 
adult life span, preovipositional period, ovipositional period, and egg hatch. 
These DD accumulations represent key developmental benchmarks, allowing for the 
creation of a phenology model that facilitates wiser management of S. sulfureana 
in the cranberry system.

© 2014 Entomological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1603/EC14261
PMID: 26470078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. J Econ Entomol. 2014 Dec;107(6):2137-46. doi: 10.1603/EC14150.

Evaluation of Insecticides, Entomopathogenic Nematodes, and Physical Soil 
Barriers for Control of Diaprepes abbreviatus (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) in 
Citrus.

Bender GS(1), Bates LM(1), Bethke JA(2), Lewis E(3), Tanizaki G(1), Morse JG(4), 
Godfrey KE(5).

Author information:
(1)University of California Cooperative Extension, San Diego County, 151 E. 
Carmel St., San Marcos, CA 92078.
(2)University of California Cooperative Extension, San Diego County, 151 E. 
Carmel St., San Marcos, CA 92078. jabethke@ucanr.edu.
(3)Department of Nematology, University of California, Davis, CA 95616.
(4)Department of Entomology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521.
(5)Contained Research Facility, University of California, 555 Hopkins Rd., 
Davis, CA 95618.

The Diaprepes root weevil, Diaprepes abbreviatus L. (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), 
was discovered as the cause of early decline and death of citrus trees and 
ornamental plants along coastal Orange and Los Angeles Counties in 2005 and San 
Diego County in 2006. We established trials to evaluate the effectiveness of two 
tactics to manage life stages of Diaprepes root weevil that are found in the 
soil. The first tactic was soil applications of the pesticides bifenthrin or 
imidacloprid, with and without entomopathogenic nematodes, to kill larvae. The 
second tactic was attempting to block adult emergence from the soil using a 
thick wood-chip mulch layer, a small-meshed landscape fabric, and a dry soil 
barrier (created by subirrigation). We found that soil treatments with the two 
insecticides (bifenthrin and imidacloprid) at maximum label rates with and 
without Steinernema riobrave Cabanillas et al. at 5 million nematodes per tree 
significantly reduced numbers of soil-borne Diaprepes root weevil larvae in one 
trial compared with the control. Another entomopathogenic nematode, 
Heterorhabditis indica Poinar et al. applied in wax moth Galleria mellonella L. 
cadavers at 86 wax moth cadavers per tree was not effective. Adult emergence was 
reduced by almost 100% when the landscape fabric was kept intact (2009), but 
emergence occurred in 2010 when the fabric was torn by grove operations (60% 
reduction). Adult emergence was reduced to ≍70% compared with the control in the 
subirrigation treatment in 2009 when the summer was hot and dry, but emergence 
occurred in 2010 during periodic rains toward the end of summer. The mulch 
treatment kept the soil moist in between irrigations resulting in greater adult 
emergence rates compared with controls during 2009 and 2010. Health ratings of 
the trees were taken following several years of physical barrier treatments, and 
trees treated with the landscape fabric were significantly healthier (mean 
rating 0.9, scale 0 = healthy to 5 = dead) than those in the other treatments 
(mean rating of 3.6, 4.0, and 2.5 for control, mulch and subirrigation, 
respectively). Of the physical barrier methods studied, landscape fabric is most 
effective in reducing Diaprepes root weevil emergence, increases plant health, 
and is long lasting, but it is the most costly to install and can be damaged 
during harvest.

© 2014 Entomological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1603/EC14150
PMID: 26470079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. J Econ Entomol. 2014 Dec;107(6):2213-21. doi: 10.1603/EC14203.

Developing Sampling Plans for the Invasive Megacopta cribraria (Hemiptera: 
Plataspidae) in Soybean.

Stubbins FL(1), Seiter NJ(2), Greene JK(3), Reay-Jones FP(4).

Author information:
(1)Clemson University, School of Agricultural, Forest, and Environmental 
Sciences, Edisto Research and Education Center, 64 Research Rd., Blackville, SC 
29817. sstubbi@clemson.edu.
(2)Department of Entomology, University of Arkansas, Southeast Research and 
Extension Center, P.O. Box 3508, Monticello, AR 71656.
(3)Clemson University, School of Agricultural, Forest, and Environmental 
Sciences, Edisto Research and Education Center, 64 Research Rd., Blackville, SC 
29817.
(4)Clemson University, School of Agricultural, Forest, and Environmental 
Sciences, Pee Dee Research and Education Center, 2200 Pocket Rd., Florence, SC 
29506.

Since its discovery in the southeastern United States, the invasive plataspid 
Megacopta cribraria (F.) (Hemiptera: Plataspidae) has infested soybean (Glycine 
max (L.) Merrill) fields in often very high numbers. To optimize sampling plans, 
sweep-net and beat-cloth sampling was conducted in soybean fields in South 
Carolina during 2012 and 2013. Across all fields, densities averaged 7.2 ± 0.5 
(SEM) adults and 4.5 ± 0.4 nymphs per 20 sweeps and 5.5 ± 0.3 adults and 4.5 ± 
0.3 nymphs per 1.83 m of row. Coefficients of Taylor's power law were used to 
generate sampling plans for population estimates and sequential sampling plans 
for pest management decision making. At an economic threshold of one nymph per 
sweep, optimum sample sizes were 184, 48, and 22 within 10, 20, and 30% of the 
mean with the sweep-net method. At the corresponding threshold for the beat 
cloth (24.7 nymphs per 1.83 m of row), optimum sample sizes were 239, 62, and 29 
within 10, 20 and 30% of the mean, respectively. At all adult and nymph 
densities, fewer sweep-net samples were required for population estimations 
compared with the number of beat-cloth samples. Sequential sampling reduced the 
sample size required to reach a management decision for the sweep net and beat 
cloth compared with a fixed sampling plan. The sweep-net method was more cost 
reliable for population estimation at low densities of both life stages, with 
the beat cloth becoming more cost reliable as populations increased. The 
beat-cloth method was more cost reliable than sweep-net sampling across all 
densities and life stages for pest management practices. These results may be 
used by researchers, county Extension agents, consultants, and farm managers to 
both facilitate sampling and improve reliability of M. cribraria estimates for 
research purposes and for pest management.

© 2014 Entomological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1603/EC14203
PMID: 26470088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. J Econ Entomol. 2015 Feb;108(1):126-34. doi: 10.1093/jee/tou011. Epub 2015
Jan  22.

Effects of Temperature on the Age-Stage, Two-Sex Life Table of Bradysia 
odoriphaga (Diptera: Sciaridae).

Li W(1), Yang Y(2), Xie W(3), Wu Q(3), Xu B(3), Wang S(3), Zhu X(3), Wang S(4), 
Zhang Y(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Protection, Institute of Vegetables and Flowers, Chinese 
Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing 100081, P. R. China. College of 
Agriculture and Forestry Technology, Hebei North University, Zhangjiakou, Hebei, 
075000, China. These authors have equally contributed to this work.
(2)These authors have equally contributed to this work. Department of 
Agriculture of Yangtze University, Jingzhou Hubei 434000, China.
(3)Department of Plant Protection, Institute of Vegetables and Flowers, Chinese 
Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing 100081, P. R. China.
(4)College of Agriculture and Forestry Technology, Hebei North University, 
Zhangjiakou, Hebei, 075000, China.
(5)Department of Plant Protection, Institute of Vegetables and Flowers, Chinese 
Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing 100081, P. R. China. 
zhangyj@mail.caas.net.cn.

The demographics of Bradysia odoriphaga were examined with an age-stage, two-sex 
life table that was developed at 15, 20, 25, and 30°C under controlled 
conditions. The intrinsic rate of increase and mean generation time were 0.0574 
and 48.08 d at 15°C, 0.1175 and 30.09 d at 20°C, 0.1369 and 26.31 d at 25°C, and 
0.1247 and 26.55 d at 30°C, respectively. The gross reproductive rate (GRR), the 
net reproductive rate (R0), and the pre-adult survivorship (la) were consistent 
with the relationship R0<la×GRR<GRR. Development was slower at 15°C than at the 
other temperatures. The mean duration of the total pre-adult stages was 38.01, 
27.62, 23.74, and 24.10 d at 15, 20, 25, and 30°C, respectively. The highest 
values for the intrinsic rate of increase, finite rate of increase, and 
fecundity (0.1369 d(-1), 1.147 d(-1), and 50.53 eggs, respectively) and the 
shortest mean generation time were at 25°C. Still, B. odoriphaga was able to 
develop, survive, and reproduce across the entire temperature range (15-30°C). 
This study provides insight into the temperature-dependent phenology of B. 
odoriphaga and will contribute to the modeling of its population dynamics and to 
its management in the field.

© The Authors 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/tou011
PMID: 26470112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. J Econ Entomol. 2015 Feb;108(1):157-65. doi: 10.1093/jee/tou009. Epub 2015
Jan  22.

Lepidoptera (Crambidae, Noctuidae, and Pyralidae) Injury to Corn Containing 
Single and Pyramided Bt Traits, and Blended or Block Refuge, in the Southern 
United States.

Reisig DD(1), Akin DS(2), All JN(3), Bessin RT(4), Brewer MJ(5), Buntin DG(6), 
Catchot AL(7), Cook D(8), Flanders KL(9), Huang FN(10), Johnson DW(11), Leonard 
BR(12), Mcleod PJ(13), Porter RP(14), Reay-Jones FP(15), Tindall KV(16), Stewart 
SD(17), Troxclair NN(18), Youngman RR(19), Rice ME(20).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, North Carolina State University, Vernon G. James 
Research and Extension Center, 207 Research Station Rd., Plymouth, NC 27962.
(2)University Arkansas, Cooperative Extension Service, Monticello, AR 71656; 
currently, FMC Corporation, 1672 Hwy 138, Monticello, AR 71655.
(3)Department of Entomology, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602.
(4)Department of Entomology, S-225 Ag North, Lexington, KY 40546.
(5)Texas A&M AgriLife Research & Extension Center, 10345 State Hwy 44, Corpus 
Christi, TX 78406.
(6)Department of Entomology, UGA-Griffin Campus, 1109 Experiment Street, 
Griffin, GA 30223.
(7)Department of Entomology & Plant Pathology, Mississippi State University, 
Mississippi State, MS 39762.
(8)Delta Research & Extension Center, Mississippi State University, P.O. Box 
197, Stoneville, MS 38776.
(9)201 Extension Hall, Auburn University, AL 36849.
(10)Department of Entomology, 404 Life Sciences Bldg., LSU AgCenter, Baton 
Rouge, LA 70803.
(11)UK-REC, 1205 Hopkinsville Street, Princeton, KY 42445.
(12)LSU AgCenter, Macon Ridge Station, 212A Macon Ridge Rd., Winnsboro, LA 
71295.
(13)Cralley-Warren Lab, 2601 N. Young Ave., Fayetteville, AR 72704.
(14)Texas AgriLife Research & Extension Center, Lubbock, TX 79403.
(15)School of Agricultural, Forest, and Environmental Sciences, Pee Dee Research 
& Education Center, Clemson University, 2200 Pocket Rd., Florence, SC 29506.
(16)Division of Plant Sciences, University of Missouri, Portageville, MO 63873.
(17)West Tennessee Research and Education Center, 605 Airways Blvd., Jackson, TN 
38301.
(18)Texas AgriLife Research & Extension Center, P.O. Box 1849, Uvalde, TX 78802.
(19)Department of Entomology, 216-A Price Hall, MC 0319, Virginia Tech 
University, Blacksburg, VA 24061.
(20)DuPont Pioneer, P. O. Box 1004, Johnston, IA 50131. marlin.rice@pioneer.com.

Fall armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda (J. E. Smith) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae); 
corn earworm, Helicoverpa zea Boddie (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae); southwestern corn 
borer, Diatraea grandiosella Dyar (Lepidoptera: Crambidae); sugarcane borer, 
Diatraea saccharalis F. (Lepidoptera: Crambidae); and lesser cornstalk borer, 
Elasmopalpus lignosellus Zeller (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), are lepidopteran pests 
of corn, Zea mays L., in the southern United States. Blended refuge for 
transgenic plants expressing the insecticidal protein derivative from Bacillus 
thuringiensis (Bt) has recently been approved as an alternative resistance 
management strategy in the northern United States. We conducted a two-year study 
with 39 experiments across 12 states in the southern United States to evaluate 
plant injury from these five species of Lepidoptera to corn expressing Cry1F and 
Cry1Ab, as both single and pyramided traits, a pyramid of Cry1Ab×Vip3Aa20, and a 
pyramid of Cry1F×Cry1Ab plus non-Bt in a blended refuge. Leaf injury and kernel 
damage from corn earworm and fall armyworm, and stalking tunneling by 
southwestern corn borer, were similar in Cry1F×Cry1Ab plants compared with the 
Cry1F×Cry1Ab plus non-Bt blended refuge averaged across five-plant clusters. 
When measured on an individual plant basis, leaf injury, kernel damage, stalk 
tunneling (southwestern corn borer), and dead or injured plants (lesser 
cornstalk borer) were greater in the blended non-Bt refuge plants compared to 
Cry1F×Cry1Ab plants in the non-Bt and pyramided Cry1F×Cry1Ab blended refuge 
treatment. When non-Bt blended refuge plants were compared to a structured 
refuge of non-Bt plants, no significant difference was detected in leaf injury, 
kernel damage, or stalk tunneling (southwestern corn borer). Plant stands in the 
non-Bt and pyramided Cry1F×Cry1Ab blended refuge treatment had more stalk 
tunneling from sugarcane borer and plant death from lesser cornstalk borer 
compared to a pyramided Cry1F×Cry1Ab structured refuge treatment. Hybrid plants 
containing Cry1F×Cry1Ab within the pyramided Cry1F×Cry1Ab blended refuge 
treatment had significantly less kernel damage than non-Bt structured refuge 
treatments. Both single and pyramided Bt traits were effective against 
southwestern corn borer, sugarcane borer, and lesser cornstalk borer.

© The Authors 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/tou009
PMID: 26470116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. J Econ Entomol. 2015 Jun;108(3):975-85. doi: 10.1093/jee/tov091. Epub 2015
May  5.

Sublethal Effects of Beauveria bassiana (Ascomycota: Hypocreales) on Life Table 
Parameters of Frankliniella occidentalis (Thysanoptera: Thripidae).

Zhang T(1), Reitz SR(2), Wang H(3), Lei Z(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, 
Institute of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Science, Beijing 
100193, P. R. China.
(2)Malheur County Extension, Oregon State University, Ontario, Oregon 97914, 
USA.
(3)State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, 
Institute of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Science, Beijing 
100193, P. R. China. wanghaihong2020@sina.com.

We assessed effects of parental exposure to Beauveria bassiana on life history 
traits of subsequent generations of western flower thrips, Frankliniella 
occidentalis (Pergande) (Thysanoptera: Thripidae). Progeny from individuals that 
survived fungal exposure as second instars had significantly shorter egg stages, 
but longer prepupal development times than corresponding untreated controls. 
However, survivorship to adulthood of these progeny groups did not differ. 
Although fecundities of the parental types did not differ, the sex ratio of 
progeny from fungal-treated parents was male-biased, whereas sex ratio of 
progeny from untreated control parents was even. We calculated life table 
parameters for the progeny and found that all parameters, except for generation 
time, were significantly less for the progeny of fungal-treated parents than for 
progeny of untreated parents. The intrinsic rate of increase, finite rate of 
increase, net reproductive rate, mean generation time, and gross reproductive 
rate were 0.199 d(-1), 1.229 d(-1), 21.84, 15.48 d, and 27.273, respectively, 
for progeny of treated thrips, and 0.266 d(-1), 1.316 d(-1), 52.540, 14.92 d, 
and 70.64, respectively, for progeny of control thrips. Consequently, population 
projections demonstrated that offspring of parents exposed to B. bassiana would 
increase their population more slowly than those from untreated parents. These 
results demonstrate that B. bassiana has sublethal effects that reduce the 
reproductive success of F. occidentalis and these effects should be taken into 
account when evaluating its use in management programs for F. occidentalis.

© The Authors 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/tov091
PMID: 26470219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. J Econ Entomol. 2015 Jun;108(3):1363-70. doi: 10.1093/jee/tov076. Epub 2015
Apr  17.

A Relative Resistance Ratio for Evaluation of Mexican Rice Borer (Lepidoptera: 
Crambidae) Susceptibility Among Sugarcane Cultivars.

Wilson BE(1), VanWeelden MT(2), Beuzelin JM(3), Reagan TE(2), Way MO(4), White 
WH(5), Wilson LT(4), Showler AT(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Louisiana State University Agricultural Center, 404 
Life Science Bldg., Baton Rouge, LA 70803, USA bwils26@lsu.edu.
(2)Department of Entomology, Louisiana State University Agricultural Center, 404 
Life Science Bldg., Baton Rouge, LA 70803, USA.
(3)Dean Lee Research Station, Louisiana State University Agricultural Center, 
8105 Tom Bowman Dr., Alexandria, LA 71302, USA.
(4)Texas A&M AgriLife Research and Extension Center, 1509 Aggie Dr., Beaumont, 
TX 77713, USA.
(5)USDA-ARS Sugar Cane Research Unit, 5883 USDA Rd., Houma, LA 70360, USA.
(6)USDA-ARS Knipling-Bushland U.S. Livestock Insects Research Laboratory, 2700 
Fredericksburg Rd., Kerrville, TX 78028, USA.

The Mexican rice borer, Eoreuma loftini (Dyar), is a major pest of sugarcane 
(hybrids of Saccharum spp.) in Louisiana and Texas. Resistance to E. loftini was 
evaluated in 51 commercial and experimental cultivars of sugarcane, energycane 
(hybrids of Saccharum spp.), and sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench and 
hybrids of Sorghum spp.] in four replicated small plot field experiments from 
2009 to 2012. A relative resistance ratio was developed to compare levels of 
susceptibility among cultivars based on the percentage of bored internodes and 
survival to adulthood. This index was able to separate cultivars into five 
resistance categories and provides a new method for comparing levels of 
resistance among cultivars. E. loftini pest pressure in 2009 was among the 
highest recorded with injury ranging from 55 to 88% bored internodes. Commercial 
sugarcane cultivar HoCP 85-845 was identified as resistant in three of four 
experiments, whereas HoCP 04-838 was identified as susceptible in all 
experiments. Of the five sugarcane cultivars in commercial production in the Rio 
Grande Valley of Texas, only TCP 87-3388 was categorized as resistant. Of the 
cultivars with potential for bioenergy production, all of the energycane 
cultivars demonstrated higher levels of resistance than high-biomass and sweet 
sorghum cultivars. Continued evaluation of cultivar resistance to E. loftini is 
important to development of effective integrated pest management strategies for 
this pest.

© The Authors 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/tov076
PMID: 26470265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. J Econ Entomol. 2015 Jun;108(3):1447-51. doi: 10.1093/jee/tov007. Epub 2015
Mar  18.

Marking Drosophila suzukii (Diptera: Drosophilidae) With Rubidium or 15N.

Klick J(1), Yang WQ(2), Bruck DJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Horticulture, Oregon State University, 4017 Ag. and Life 
Sciences Bldg., Corvallis, OR 97331. jimmyklick@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Horticulture, North Willamette Research and Extension Center, 
