at least one adverse event. Fifty-six per cent (44/78) of etrolizumab patients 
had at least one adverse event compared to 79% of placebo patients (RR 0.71, 95% 
CI 0.55 to 0.91). A GRADE analysis indicates that the overall quality of the 
evidence for this outcome was moderate due to sparse data. Common adverse events 
reported in the phase II study included worsening UC, nasopharyngitis, nervous 
system disorders, headache and arthralgia . A pooled analysis of two studies 
indicates that there was no statistically significant difference in the 
proportion of patients who had a serious adverse event. Twelve per cent (14/116) 
of etrolizumab patients had a serious adverse event compared to 12% of placebo 
patients (6/49) (RR 0.92, 95% CI 0.36 to 2.34). A GRADE analysis indicated that 
the overall quality of the evidence for this outcome was low due to very sparse 
data (20 events). Common serious adverse events included worsening of UC, 
impaired wound healing and bacterial peritonitis.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Moderate quality evidence suggests that etrolizumab may be 
an effective induction therapy for some patients with moderate to severe 
ulcerative colitis who have failed conventional therapy. Due to small numbers of 
patients in dose subgroups the optimal dosage of etrolizumab is unclear. Due to 
sparse data we are uncertain regarding the risk of adverse events and serious 
adverse events. Further studies are needed to determine the efficacy and safety 
of etrolizumab in this patient population. There are five ongoing phase III 
etrolizumab trials and two ongoing open-label extension studies that will 
provide important new information on the efficacy, safety and optimal dose of 
this drug for the treatment of UC.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD011661.pub2
PMCID: PMC8612697
PMID: 26630451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr Bressler participated as a co‐investigator in 
Rutgeerts 2013. Greg Rosenfeld has received fees from Abbvie, Janssen and Shire 
for lectures; and fees from Abbvie for development of educational presentations. 
All of the fees received are outside the scope of the submitted work. Dr 
Rosenfeld is a sub‐investigator for a Phase III clinical trial investigating 
etrolizumab for Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Claire Parker has no 
known conflicts to declare. John MacDonald has no known conflicts to declare. 
Brian Bressler has received fee(s) from Janssen, Abbvie, Celltrion, and Takeda 
for consultancy; has grants/grants pending from Janssen; payment for lectures 
from Takeda, Ferring, Actavis, Janssen, Abbvie, and Shire; stock/stock options 
with Qu Biologics and travel expenses from Janssen, and Abbvie. All of these 
activities are outside the submitted work.


558. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2014;203:32-43.

Food for Healthy Living and Active Ageing.

Ajmone Marsan P(1), Cocconcelli PS(1), Masoero F(1), Miggiano G(2), Morelli 
L(1), Moro D(1), Rossi F(1), Sckokai P(1), Trevisi E(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Environmental Science, Università Cattolica 
del Sacro Cuore.
(2)Faculty of Medicine and Surgery, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore.

The link between diet and health has been recognized since the Grecian period; 
as Hippocrates said, "Let food be your medicine and medicine be your food". 
Although the primary goals of diet are meeting nutritional requirements and 
providing energy, there is increasing awareness that a correct and balanced diet 
may prevent the insurgence of diet-related pathologies and/or improve well-being 
and life expectancy, also reflecting on the ageing process. Research on the 
interaction among nutrients, gut microbiota and host metabolism is presently 
unravelling the molecular mechanisms underlying the positive and negative 
effects of traditional diets on health and ageing, providing useful information 
for the design of innovative foods targeting specific needs and segments of the 
population. The food supply chain plays a key role in ensuring quality and 
safety through both comprehensive quality management and inspection systems and 
a focused innovation process mainly devoted to the creation of functional foods. 
However, innovation and scientific development pose a problem of information 
asymmetry towards final consumers; thus, regulatory aspects and private and 
public communication strategies must be efficiently developed.

PMID: 26630510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2014;203:99-111.

Lifestyles and Ageing: Targeting Key Mechanisms to Shift the Balance from 
Unhealthy to Healthy Ageing.

Grassi C(1), Landi F(2), Delogu G(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Physiology.
(2)Department of Geriatrics, Neurosciences and Orthopaedics.
(3)Institute of Microbiology, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Medical 
School, Rome, Italy.

The increase in life expectancy has dramatically enhanced the prevalence of 
age-related chronic diseases resulting in growing costs for both society and 
individuals. Identification of strategies contributing to healthy ageing is thus 
one of the major challenges of the coming years. Lifestyle has a primary role 
among non-genetic factors affecting health and lifespan. In particular, 
nutrition, mental and physical activity impact the molecular and functional 
mechanisms whose alterations cause the major age-related diseases. A better 
understanding of mechanisms underlying the beneficial action of correct 
lifestyles is useful to develop interventions aimed at preventing and/or 
delaying the onset of chronic degenerative diseases, to identify high-risk 
populations who could be targeted in intervention trials as well as to identify 
novel biomarkers of healthy ageing. A multidisciplinary team of basic scientists 
and clinicians operating at the Catholic University Medical School in Rome is 
actively working on this topic to determine the ability of healthy lifestyles to 
promote active ageing and counteract the major age-related diseases affecting 
brain health, musculoskeletal function and gut microenvironment. This chapter 
summarizes our strategic approaches, the major results we obtained so far and 
the main experimental and translational perspectives.

PMID: 26630517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2014;203:172-84.

Work, Retirement and Health: An Analysis of the Socio-economic Implications of 
Active Ageing and their Effects on Health.

Lucifora C(1), Cappellari L(1), Cottini E(1).

Author information:
(1)Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Milan, Italy.

In recent decades many industrialized countries experienced a substantial 
decrease in the working age population as a proportion of the total population. 
Demographic factors, such as declining fertility and increasing life expectancy, 
as well as institutional factors, such as the generosity of state-funded 
pension, both determined a change in the age distribution and a marked 
anticipation in retirement age. A lively debate among researchers and 
policymakers is currently taking place in Europe, as there are concerns that 
working longer may not be healthy for workers, or that it will be hard for older 
workers to get a job. Conversely, if working longer leads to higher employment 
rates and better health conditions, policies aimed at increasing peoples' 
retirement age may represent a "win-win" strategy both in terms of fiscal 
policies as well as in terms of healthy life expectancy. Unfolding this 
controversy is essentially an empirical matter which is also of paramount 
importance for public policy. In this study we first review the main findings of 
the socio-economic literature. Second, we highlight the main research avenues 
that are currently investigated in the area of Social Science and Health 
Economics at the Universitá Cattolica. Finally we discuss the policy 
implications and the prospects for future research.

PMID: 26630523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Neurodiagn J. 2015 Sep;55(3):180-94. doi: 10.1080/21646821.2015.1075181.

Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) and Related Motor Neuron Diseases: An 
Overview.

Morris J.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative motor 
neuron disease, resulting in the destruction and ultimate death of neurons that 
control muscles. ALS affects motor neurons in the brain, brainstem, and spinal 
cord (upper motor neurons, bulbar region of the brain, and lower motor neurons). 
ALS patients have an average life expectancy of 3-5 years, therefore, proper 
diagnosis, care, and treatment is essential in order to provide the best quality 
of life for these patients. A thorough understanding of the symptomatology, 
potential cause(s), progression, and treatment of ALS is essential to provide 
timely and high-quality patient care. Electrodiagnostic examination, 
specifically electromyography (EMG) and nerve conduction studies (NCS), is one 
of the key diagnostics of ALS.

DOI: 10.1080/21646821.2015.1075181
PMID: 26630810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. BMJ. 2015 Dec 2;351:h6492. doi: 10.1136/bmj.h6492.

Annual HIV incidence fell by a third from 2000 to 2014.

Gulland A(1).

Author information:
(1)London.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.h6492
PMID: 26630902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. World J Surg. 2016 Feb;40(2):395-401. doi: 10.1007/s00268-015-3356-2.

The Global Burden of Esophageal Cancer: A Disability-Adjusted Life-Year 
Approach.

Di Pardo BJ(1), Bronson NW(1), Diggs BS(1), Thomas CR Jr(2), Hunter JG(1), Dolan 
JP(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastrointestinal and General Surgery, Department of Surgery, 
Digestive Health Center, Oregon Health and Science University, 3181 SW Sam 
Jackson Park Road, Mailcode L223A, Portland, OR, 97239, USA.
(2)Department of Radiation Medicine, Knight Cancer Institute, Oregon Health and 
Science University, Portland, OR, USA.
(3)Division of Gastrointestinal and General Surgery, Department of Surgery, 
Digestive Health Center, Oregon Health and Science University, 3181 SW Sam 
Jackson Park Road, Mailcode L223A, Portland, OR, 97239, USA. dolanj@ohsu.edu.

INTRODUCTION: Esophageal cancer is the eighth most common cancer worldwide and 
the sixth leading cause of cancer-related deaths. As a significant cause of 
morbidity and mortality, its burden on society has yet to be fully 
characterized. The aim of this study is to examine its global burden through 
estimation of the disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) attributable to it.
METHODS: Global incidence and mortality estimates for esophageal cancer were 
obtained from the International Agency for Research on Cancer GLOBOCAN 2008 
database. DALYs were calculated, using methodology established by the World 
Health Organization.
RESULTS: In 2008, 3,955,919 DALYs were attributed to esophageal cancer, at a 
global rate of 0.58 DALYs per 1000 people annually. Years of life lost (YLL) 
accounted for 96.8 % of DALYs, while years lived with disability (YLD) accounted 
for 3.2 %. 83.8 % of the global DALYs occurred in less-developed countries, with 
most accrued in Eastern Asia, comprising 50.9 % of the total. The highest rate 
of DALY accrual was in Southern Africa, at 1.62 DALYs per 1000 people annually.
CONCLUSIONS: A substantial number of years of life were lost or affected by 
esophageal cancer worldwide in 2008, with the burden resting disproportionately 
on less-developed countries. Geographically, the greatest burden is in Eastern 
Asia. The vast majority of DALYs were due to YLL, rather than YLD, indicating 
the need to focus resources on disease prevention and early detection. Our 
findings provide an additional basis upon which to formulate global priorities 
for interventions that affect DALY reduction in esophageal cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-015-3356-2
PMID: 26630937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2016 
Feb;59(2):153-65. doi: 10.1007/s00103-015-2275-6.

[Social inequality and health: Status and prospects of socio-epidemiological 
research in Germany].

[Article in German]

Lampert T(1), Richter M(2), Schneider S(3), Spallek J(4), Dragano N(5).

Author information:
(1)Fachgebiet 28, Soziale Determinanten der Gesundheit, Robert Koch-Institut, 
General-Pape-Straße 62-66, 12101, Berlin, Deutschland. t.lampert@rki.de.
(2)Martin-Luther-Universität Halle-Wittenberg, Halle-Wittenberg, Deutschland.
(3)Medizinischen Fakultät Mannheim der Ruprecht-Karls-Universität Heidelberg, 
Heidelberg, Deutschland.
(4)Universität Bielefeld, Bielefeld, Deutschland.
(5)Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Deutschland.

Social differences in morbidity and mortality have always been a central topic 
in public health research. In recent years, there has been a growing research 
interest that has clearly resonated with the general public and the political 
arena as well. This article describes the development and establishment of 
social epidemiology in Germany and presents the current status of research. In 
addition, it describes different models for explaining health inequalities. On 
this basis, selected challenges and prospects of socio-epidemiological research 
are demonstrated. The reason why the analysis of social differences in morbidity 
and mortality will continue to be a key task of public health research in the 
national and international context in the future is also explained.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-015-2275-6
PMID: 26631008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Ophthalmologe. 2016 Jan;113(1):83-94. doi: 10.1007/s00347-015-0158-8.

[International ophthalmology and travel medicine].

[Article in German]

Nentwich MM(1)(2), Pleyer U(3), Schaller UC(4), Klauß V(5).

Author information:
(1)Augenklinik, Ludwig-Maximilians Universität München, Mathildenstr. 8, 80336, 
München, Deutschland. nentwich.manuscript@gmail.com.
(2)Augenklinik und Poliklinik, Julius-Maximilians Universität Würzburg, 
Josef-Schneider-Str. 11, 97080, Würzburg, Deutschland. 
nentwich.manuscript@gmail.com.
(3)Augenklinik, Uveitis Zentrum, Charité, Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, 
Deutschland.
(4)Augenklinik Herzog Carl-Theodor, München, Deutschland.
(5)Augenklinik, Ludwig-Maximilians Universität München, Mathildenstr. 8, 80336, 
München, Deutschland.

Medical eye care in developing countries is very different from the situation in 
industrialized nations. In order to prevent rising numbers of blind people 
worldwide due to increased life expectancy and population growth, the global 
initiative Vision 2020 "The Right to Sight" was established in 1999. Coordinated 
initiatives are important as most causes of blindness are either preventable or 
curable (e.g. cataract surgery); however, due to a lack of resources eye care in 
developing countries cannot implement all necessary preventive and therapeutic 
measures at present. The epidemiology of causes of blindness and the situation 
of ophthalmic care are discussed. Because of increased mobility of people and 
goods (e.g. air travel and trucking), imported eye diseases are of increasing 
importance. The difference between travel medicine, which deals with the medical 
situation of travelers and international ophthalmology (i.e. diseases in 
tropical countries) is discussed and illustrated on the basis of several 
important disease patterns.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-015-0158-8
PMID: 26631047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Hautarzt. 2016 Mar;67(3):216-20. doi: 10.1007/s00105-015-3732-8.

[Congenital erythropoietic porphyria : An update].

[Article in German]

Wenner C(1), Neumann NJ(1), Frank J(2).

Author information:
(1)Hautklinik und Europäisches Porphyriezentrum, Universitätsklinikum der 
Heinrich Heine Universität Düsseldorf, Moorenstr. 5, 40225, Düsseldorf, 
Deutschland.
(2)Hautklinik und Europäisches Porphyriezentrum, Universitätsklinikum der 
Heinrich Heine Universität Düsseldorf, Moorenstr. 5, 40225, Düsseldorf, 
Deutschland. jorge.frank@med.uni-duesseldorf.de.

BACKGROUND: Congenital erythropoetic porphria is a very rare type of autosomal 
recessive nonacute porphyria. Homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in 
the uroporphyrinogen III consynthase gene cause a marked enzymatic deficiency of 
uroporphyrinogen III consynthase, the fourth enzyme along the heme biosynthetic 
pathway.
CLINICAL PRESENTATION: Clinically, affected patients are characterized by a 
moderate to severe photosensitivity. Starting early in infancy, they develop 
blisters, erosions, and exulcerations in sun-exposed areas of the body, often 
resulting in scar formation and mutilation. Besides the cutaneous changes, 
hemolytic anemia, transfusion-dependent pancytopenia, hepatosplenomegaly and 
liver cirrhosis can occur. Due to increased susceptibility for infections and 
because of the hematological and hepatic complications, affected individuals 
have a decreased life expectancy, rarely exceeding 40 years of age.
TREATMENT: Currently, no causal treatment is available for the disorder. 
Therefore, the most important therapeutic modality is strict avoidance of 
sunlight, preferably by inversion of the day-night rhythm, or at least 
consequent photoprotection with adequate clothing. In severe cases, bone marrow 
or stem cell transplantation should be considered.

DOI: 10.1007/s00105-015-3732-8
PMID: 26631056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Herz. 2015 Dec;40(8):1121-32; quiz 1133-4. doi: 10.1007/s00059-015-4375-3.

[Device therapy of chronic heart failure: Update 2015].

[Article in German]

Israel CW(1), Ekosso-Ejangue L(2), Sheta MK(2).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Innere Medizin - Kardiologie, Diabetologie & Nephrologie, 
Evangelisches Krankenhaus Bielefeld, Burgsteig 13, 33617, Bielefeld, 
Deutschland. Carsten.Israel@evkb.de.
(2)Klinik für Innere Medizin - Kardiologie, Diabetologie & Nephrologie, 
Evangelisches Krankenhaus Bielefeld, Burgsteig 13, 33617, Bielefeld, 
Deutschland.

Cardiac pacemakers, implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICD) and systems 
for cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) represent an important component of 
heart failure therapy. Pacemakers only play a role in bradycardia-associated 
heart failure and require optimal programming to prevent ventricular 
desynchronization. Primary prophylactic ICD implantation is indicated in 
patients with a left ventricular ejection fraction of ≤ 35 %, clinical stages 
NYHA II-III and a life expectancy > 1 year. The CRT is indicated in patients 
with a left bundle branch block but only in individual cases for other QRS 
morphologies of < 150 ms duration. The combination of CRT with a pacemaker or 
defibrillator must be decided on an individual basis. Device therapy in heart 
failure should always include remote monitoring to detect events early and to 
implement treatment accordingly. New developments include quadripolar left 
ventricular leads and pacing from multiple sites simultaneously thus enabling 
better resynchronization. Stimulation for modulation of cardiac contractility 
and the autonomous nervous system are currently being clinically tested. The 
optimal utilization of device therapy improves the course of heart failure and 
prevents cardiac decompensation and fatalities.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-015-4375-3
PMID: 26631395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Gynecol Oncol. 2016 Feb;140(2):193-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2015.11.030. Epub
 2015 Nov 26.

Endpoints in clinical trials: What do patients consider important? A survey of 
the Ovarian Cancer National Alliance.

Minion LE(1), Coleman RL(2), Alvarez RD(3), Herzog TJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Dignity Health at St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center, 500 West Thomas 
Road, Suite 600, Phoenix, AZ 85013, United States.
(2)The University of Texas at MD Anderson Medical Center, 1155 Herman Presslier 
Drive, Unit Number 1362, Houston, TX 77030, United States.
(3)University of Alabama at Birmingham, 1700 6th Avenue South, Room 10250, 
Birmingham, AL 35233, United States.
(4)University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 234 Goodman Street, Cincinnati, 
OH 45219, United States. Electronic address: thomas.herzog@uc.edu.

Comment in
    Gynecol Oncol. 2016 Feb;140(2):191-2.

OBJECTIVE: In order to understand the patient's perspective in regards to 
meaningful surrogate clinical trial endpoints and the impact of 
treatment-related toxicity, and quality of life, we surveyed women with 
gynecological cancers to ascertain their preferences.
METHODS: A 28-question anonymous online survey was posted on the OCNA website 
(www.ovariancancer.org). Survey questions included demographic factors, tumor 
data, and patients' preference regarding side effects and therapy endpoints. 
Data was analyzed for frequency and percentage of each response. Student t-test, 
Fisher's exact test and Wilcoxon rank sums were preformed.
RESULTS: There were 1413 survey responses. Participants reported that for a new 
agent to be meaningful, the minimum extension of progression-free survival (PFS) 
and overall survival (OS) should be five or more months, 77% and 85% of the 
time, respectively. Most subjects (55%, n=612) were interested in an agent that 
would keep tumor growth relatively static without change in OS. Addressing the 
impact of adverse aspects from a hypothetical new agent as a function of 
response, there was significant migration (p<0.0001) to acceptance of greater 
toxicity and cost under the scenario of a 5-6months OS gain, despite three-fold 
higher neurotoxicity, as compared to a PFS gain of 3-4months/no OS gain without 
toxicity. Response patterns weren't altered by recurrence status.
CONCLUSIONS: Herein, we show that magnitude of outcome is a desired effect, even 
given the prospect of significant toxicity and cost. However, these preferences 
appear to differ between those with primary and recurrent disease.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2015.11.030
PMID: 26631607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. J Chem Theory Comput. 2008 Aug;4(8):1348-59. doi: 10.1021/ct7003534.

A Hamiltonian Replica Exchange Approach and Its Application to the Study of 
Side-Chain Type and Neighbor Effects on Peptide Backbone Conformations.

Xu C(1), Wang J(1), Liu H(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, and Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Sciences 
at the Microscale, University of Science and Technology of China (USTC), Hefei, 
Anhui 230027, China.

We presented a Hamiltonian replica exchange approach and applied it to 
investigate the effects of various factors on the conformational equilibrium of 
peptide backbone. In different replicas, biasing potentials of varying strengths 
are applied to all backbone (φ,ψ) torsional angle pairs to overcome sampling 
barriers. A general form of constructing biasing potentials based on a reference 
free energy surface is employed to minimize sampling in physically irrelevant 
parts of the conformational space. An extension of the weighted histogram 
analysis formulation allows for conformational free energy surfaces to be 
computed using all replicas, including those with biased Hamiltonians. This 
approach can significantly reduce the statistical uncertainties in computed free 
energies. For the peptide systems considered, it allows for effects of the order 
of 0.5-1 kJ/mol to be quantified using explicit solvent simulations. We applied 
this approach to capped peptides of 2-5 peptide units containing Ala, Phe, or 
Val in explicit water solvent and focused on how the conformational equilibrium 
of a single pair of backbone angles are influenced by changing the residue types 
of the same and neighboring residues as well as conformations of neighboring 
residues. For the effects of changing side-chain types of the same residue, our 
results consistently showed increased preference of β for Phe and Val relative 
to Ala. As for neighbor effects, our results not only indicated that they can be 
as large as the effects of changing the side-chain type of the same residue but 
also led to several new insights. We found that for the N-terminal neighbors, 
their conformations seem to have large effects. Relative to the β conformer of 
an N-terminal neighbor, its α conformer stabilizes the β conformer of its next 
Ala disregarding the residue type of the neighbor. For C-terminal neighbors, 
their chemical identities seem to play more important roles. Val as the 
C-terminal neighbor significantly increases the PII propensity of its previous 
Ala disregarding its own conformational state. These results are in good 
accordance with reported statistics of protein coil structure libraries, proving 
the persistent presence of such effects in short peptides as well as in 
proteins. We also observed other side-chain identity and neighbor effects which 
have been consistently reproduced in our simulations of different small peptide 
systems but not displayed by coil library statistics.

DOI: 10.1021/ct7003534
PMID: 26631710


570. Oral Oncol. 2016 Feb;53:20-6. doi: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2015.11.011. Epub
2015  Nov 26.

Cost-utility of sentinel lymph node biopsy in cT1-T2N0 oral cancer.

van der Linden N(1), Flach GB(2), de Bree R(3), Uyl-de Groot CA(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, PO 
Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands; CHERE, University of Technology 
Sydney, PO Box 123, Broadway NSW 2007, Sydney, Australia. Electronic address: 
naomi.vanderlinden@chere.uts.edu.au.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, VU University Medical 
Center, PO Box 7057, 1007 MB Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
gb.flach@vumc.nl.
(3)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, VU University Medical 
Center, PO Box 7057, 1007 MB Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Department of Head and 
Neck Surgical Oncology, UMC Utrecht Cancer Center, UMC Utrecht, PO Box 85500, 
3508 GA Utrecht, The Netherlands. Electronic address: R.deBree@umcutrecht.nl.
(4)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, PO 
Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
uyl@bmg.eur.nl.

OBJECTIVES: To calculate the cost-utility of different strategies for the 
detection of occult lymph node metastases in cT1-T2N0 oral cancer.
METHODS: A decision tree followed by a Markov model was designed to compare the 
cost-utility of the following strategies: (a) USgFNAC (ultrasound guided fine 
needle aspiration cytology), (b) SLNB (sentinel lymph node biopsy), (c) USgFNAC 
and, if negative, SLNB (d) END (elective neck dissection). Data was collected 
from 62 patients in four Dutch head and neck centres. Utilities were measured 
with the EQ5D questionnaire and resource use was recorded from patient charts. 
Costs were calculated from a hospital perspective. Uncertainty was explored with 
scenario analyses and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: With a 5- or 10-year time horizon, SLNB results in the highest number 
of additional quality-adjusted life years (QALYs, 0.12 and 0.26, respectively) 
for the smallest additional costs (€56 and €74, respectively) compared to 
USgFNAC. With a lifetime horizon END results in the highest number of additional 
QALYs (0.55) for an additional €1.626 per QALY gained compared to USgFNAC. When 
we make different assumptions regarding the duration of disutilities (⩾5 years) 
or the improvement (⩾3%) of sensitivity of SLNB, SLNB is the most favourable 
strategy from all time horizons.
CONCLUSION: SLNB is a good diagnostic strategy to evaluate cT1-T2N0 oral cancer. 
SLNB is the preferred strategy in a 5- or 10-year time horizon. From a lifetime 
horizon, END may be preferred. SLNB may become the optimal strategy from all 
time horizons if its sensitivity can be slightly improved.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2015.11.011
PMID: 26631953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Indian J Ophthalmol. 2015 Sep;63(9):710-5. doi: 10.4103/0301-4738.170986.

Ocular abnormalities in multi-transfused beta-thalassemia patients.

Jafari R, Heydarian S(1), Karami H, Shektaei MM, Dailami KN, Amiri AA, Rezaee 
MR, Far AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Optometry, School of Paramedical Science, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.

AIMS: The aim of this study was to assess ocular changes in thalassemia patients 
who have received multiple transfusions and chelate binding therapy in order to 
avoid iron accumulation.
SETTINGS AND DESIGN: A cross-sectional study.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: A total of 54 thalassemia major patients were selected as 
case group, and 54 age- and sex-matched healthy subjects were regarded as a 
control group. Ocular examination included visual acuity, refraction testing, 
slit lamp examination, funduscopy, tonometry, perimetry, tear break-up time 
test, and color vision testing were performed for all the participants. We 
computed the frequency and duration of blood transfusion, the mean serum 
ferritin level, pretransfusion hemoglobin concentration, and type, duration, and 
daily dose of chelation therapy for thalassemia patients based on their records.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS USED: All data analysis was performed using SPSS, version 
19.
RESULTS: All the thalassemic patients were asymptomatic, but abnormal ocular 
findings (dry eye (33.3%), cataract (10.2%), retinal pigment epithelium 
degeneration (16.7%), color vision deficiency (3.7%), and visual field defects 
(33.7%)) were seen in 68.5% of thalassemic group. The prevalence of ocular 
abnormalities in normal group was 19.4%, which was significantly lower than that 
in thalassemia patients (P = 0.000). No significant correlation was found 
between ocular abnormalities and mean serum ferritin level (P = 0.627) and mean 
hemoglobin concentration (P = 0.143). Correlation of number of blood transfusion 
with the presence of ocular abnormalities was found to be statistically 
significant (P = 0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: As life expectancy for beta-thalassemia patients extends, regular 
ophthalmological evaluation to detect early changes in their ocular system is 
recommended.

DOI: 10.4103/0301-4738.170986
PMCID: PMC4705706
PMID: 26632126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Oncol Res Treat. 2015;38(12):670-7. doi: 10.1159/000442268. Epub 2015 Nov
23.

The Role of Palliative Surgery in Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer.

Heidenreich A(1), Porres D, Pfister D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospital Cologne, Germany.

Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) with luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone 
(LHRH) analogues or antagonists represents the treatment of choice in men with 
metastatic prostate cancer (PCA). Depending on the serum concentration of the 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) nadir, the survival might vary between 11 and 78 
months. In castration-resistant PCA (CRPC), all new medical treatment options 
can induce complete and partial remissions in metastatic foci, but they have no 
profound effect on the prostate itself, as has been shown recently. About 
one-third of all patients without local treatment of the primary will develop 
significant complications of the lower and upper urinary tract due to local 
progression of the PCA. In men with CRPC and lower urinary tract symptoms, 
palliative transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) can be performed with 
a 60-70% success rate. Infiltration of the pelvic floor, the bladder neck and 
trigone, and the external urethral sphincter can make palliative radical surgery 
necessary. Bladder neck closure with continent vesicostomy, radical 
cystoprostatectomy with an incontinent urinary diversion, and anterior and 
posterior exenteration are individual therapeutic options in men with a good 
performance status and a considerable life expectancy. Symptomatic involvement 
of the upper urinary tract can be managed by the placement of endoluminal stents 
or a percutaneous nephrostomy in men with poor performance. In men with a good 
response to ADT and a good performance status, reconstructive ureteral surgery 
might be considered and the options of ureteral reimplantation, ureter ileal 
replacement, and a subcutaneous pyelovesical bypass have to be discussed. The 
indication to perform one of the above-mentioned surgical approaches needs to be 
discussed in a multidisciplinary tumor board.

© 2015 S. Karger GmbH, Freiburg.

DOI: 10.1159/000442268
PMID: 26632812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. NCHS Data Brief. 2015 Nov;(221):1-8.

How Does Cause of Death Contribute to the Hispanic Mortality Advantage in the 
United States?

Arias E, Kochanek KD, Anderson RN.

The Hispanic population in the United States has lower overall mortality and 
higher life expectancy at birth than the non-Hispanic white and non-Hispanic 
black populations. The expectation has been that the Hispanic population should 
exhibit a mortality profile that is similar to that of the non-Hispanic black 
population, not one that is advantaged relative to the non-Hispanic white 
population (1-4). In this report, differences in the leading causes of death 
between the Hispanic and non-Hispanic white and black populations are explored 
to determine how they contributed to the life expectancy advantage of the 
Hispanic population in 2013.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 26633554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2016 Jan-Feb;34(1):68-75. Epub 2015 Dec 3.

Long-term costs and outcomes in psoriatic arthritis patients not responding to 
conventional therapy treated with tumour necrosis factor inhibitors: the 
extension of the Psoriatic Arthritis Cost Evaluation (PACE) study.

Olivieri I(1), Cortesi PA(2), de Portu S(3), Salvarani C(4), Cauli A(5), Lubrano 
E(6), Spadaro A(7), Cantini F(8), Ciampichini R(2), Cutro MS(9), Mathieu A(5), 
Matucci-Cerinic M(10), Punzi L(11), Scarpa R(12), Mantovani LG(2); PACE Working 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Department of Lucania, San Carlo Hospital of Potenza and Madonna 
delle Grazie Hospital of Matera, Potenza and Matera, Italy. 
i.olivieri@ospedalesancarlo.it.
(2)Researh Centre on Public Health (CESP), University of Milan-Bicocca, and 
Fondazione Charta, Milan, Italy.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry and Toxicology, University Federico II 
of Naples, Italy.
(4)Rheumatic Disease Unit, Arcispedale Santa Maria Nuova, Reggio Emilia, Italy.
(5)Rheumatology Unit II, University of Cagliari, Monserrato, Italy.
(6)Rheumatology Unit, Department of Healthy Sciences, University of Molise, 
Campobasso, Italy.
(7)Dipartimento di Clinica e Terapia Medica, Rheumatology Unit, Università di 
Roma 'La Sapienza', Rome, Italy.
(8)Rheumatic Disease Unit, 2nd Division of Medicine, Prato Hospital, Prato, 
Italy.
(9)Rheumatology Department of Lucania, San Carlo Hospital of Potenza and Madonna 
delle Grazie Hospital of Matera, Potenza and Matera, Italy.
(10)Rheumatology Department, University of Florence, Italy.
(11)Rheumatology Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, 
University of Padova, Italy.
(12)Rheumatology Research Unit, University Federico II of Naples, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: Poor information on long-term outcomes and costs on tumour necrosis 
factor (TNF) inhibitors in psoriatic arthritis (PsA) are available. Our aim was 
to evaluate long-term costs and benefits of TNF- inhibitors in PsA patients with 
inadequate response to conventional treatment with traditional disease-modifying 
anti-rheumatic drugs (tDMARDs).
METHODS: Fifty-five out of 107 enrolled patients included in the study at one 
year, completed the 5-year follow-up period. These patients were enrolled in 8 
of 9 centres included in the study at one year. Patients aged older than 18 
years, with different forms of PsA and failure or intolerance to tDMARDs therapy 
were treated with anti-TNF agents. Information on resource use, health-related 
quality of life (HRQoL), disease activity, function and laboratory values were 
collected at baseline and through the 5 years of therapy. Costs (expressed in 
Euro 2011) and utility (measured by EQ-5D instrument) before TNF inhibitor 
therapy and after 1 and 5 years were compared.
RESULTS: The majority of patients (46 out of 55; 83.6%) had a predominant or 
exclusive peripheral arthritis and 16.4% had predominant or exclusive axial 
involvement. There was a statistically significant improvement of the most 
important clinical variables after 1 year of follow-up. These improvements were 
maintained also after 5 years. The direct costs increased by approximately €800 
per patient-month after 1 year, the indirect costs decreased by €100 and the 
overall costs increased by more than €700 per patient-month due to the cost of 
TNF inhibitor therapy. Costs at 5 year were similar to the costs at 1 year. The 
HRQoL parameters showed the same trends of the clinical variables. EQ-5D VAS, 
EQ-5D utility and SF-36 PCS score showed a significant improvement after 1 year, 
maintained at 5 years. SF-36 MCS showed an improvement only at 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study suggest that TNF blockers have long-term 
efficacy. The higher cost of TNF inhibitor therapy was balanced by a significant 
improvement of HRQoL, stable at 5 years of follow-up. Our results need to be 
confirmed in larger samples of patients.

PMID: 26633622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. PLoS Med. 2015 Dec 3;12(12):e1001920. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001920. 
eCollection 2015 Dec.

World Health Organization Estimates of the Global and Regional Disease Burden of 
11 Foodborne Parasitic Diseases, 2010: A Data Synthesis.

Torgerson PR(1), Devleesschauwer B(2)(3)(4), Praet N(4), Speybroeck N(3), 
Willingham AL(5), Kasuga F(6), Rokni MB(7), Zhou XN(8), Fèvre EM(9)(10), Sripa 
B(11), Gargouri N(12), Fürst T(13), Budke CM(14), Carabin H(15), Kirk MD(16), 
Angulo FJ(17), Havelaar A(18)(19)(20), de Silva N(21).

Author information:
(1)University of Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland.
(2)Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.
(3)Université catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium.
(4)Institute of Tropical Medicine, Antwerp, Belgium.
(5)Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine, St. Kitts, West Indies.
(6)National Institute of Health Sciences, Tokyo, Japan.
(7)Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(8)Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Shanghai, People's 
Republic of China.
(9)University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom.
(10)International Livestock Research Institute, Nairobi, Kenya.
(11)Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen, Thailand.
(12)Hikma Pharmaceuticals, Amman, Jordan.
(13)Imperial College, London, United Kingdom.
(14)Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas, United States of America.
(15)University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, 
United States of America.
(16)The Australian National University, Canberra, Australia.
(17)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, United States 
of America.
(18)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, The 
Netherlands.
(19)Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(20)University of Florida, Gainesville, Gainesville, Florida, United States of 
America.
(21)University of Kelaniya, Ragama, Sri Lanka.

BACKGROUND: Foodborne diseases are globally important, resulting in considerable 
morbidity and mortality. Parasitic diseases often result in high burdens of 
disease in low and middle income countries and are frequently transmitted to 
humans via contaminated food. This study presents the first estimates of the 
global and regional human disease burden of 10 helminth diseases and 
toxoplasmosis that may be attributed to contaminated food.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Data were abstracted from 16 systematic reviews or similar 
studies published between 2010 and 2015; from 5 disease data bases accessed in 
2015; and from 79 reports, 73 of which have been published since 2000, 4 
published between 1995 and 2000 and 2 published in 1986 and 1981. These included 
reports from national surveillance systems, journal articles, and national 
estimates of foodborne diseases. These data were used to estimate the number of 
infections, sequelae, deaths, and Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs), by age 
and region for 2010. These parasitic diseases, resulted in 48.4 million cases 
(95% Uncertainty intervals [UI] of 43.4-79.0 million) and 59,724 (95% UI 
48,017-83,616) deaths annually resulting in 8.78 million (95% UI 7.62-12.51 
million) DALYs. We estimated that 48% (95% UI 38%-56%) of cases of these 
parasitic diseases were foodborne, resulting in 76% (95% UI 65%-81%) of the 
DALYs attributable to these diseases. Overall, foodborne parasitic disease, 
excluding enteric protozoa, caused an estimated 23.2 million (95% UI 18.2-38.1 
million) cases and 45,927 (95% UI 34,763-59,933) deaths annually resulting in an 
estimated 6.64 million (95% UI 5.61-8.41 million) DALYs. Foodborne Ascaris 
infection (12.3 million cases, 95% UI 8.29-22.0 million) and foodborne 
toxoplasmosis (10.3 million cases, 95% UI 7.40-14.9 million) were the most 
common foodborne parasitic diseases. Human cysticercosis with 2.78 million DALYs 
(95% UI 2.14-3.61 million), foodborne trematodosis with 2.02 million DALYs (95% 
UI 1.65-2.48 million) and foodborne toxoplasmosis with 825,000 DALYs (95% UI 
561,000-1.26 million) resulted in the highest burdens in terms of DALYs, mainly 
due to years lived with disability. Foodborne enteric protozoa, reported 
elsewhere, resulted in an additional 67.2 million illnesses or 492,000 DALYs. 
Major limitations of our study include often substantial data gaps that had to 
be filled by imputation and suffer from the uncertainties that surround such 
models. Due to resource limitations it was also not possible to consider all 
potentially foodborne parasites (for example Trypanosoma cruzi).
CONCLUSIONS: Parasites are frequently transmitted to humans through contaminated 
food. These estimates represent an important step forward in understanding the 
impact of foodborne diseases globally and regionally. The disease burden due to 
most foodborne parasites is highly focal and results in significant morbidity 
and mortality among vulnerable populations.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001920
PMCID: PMC4668834
PMID: 26633705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: PRT, BD, NP, NS, ALW, FK, MBR, XNZ, EMF, BS, NG, 
MDK, FJA, AH & NdS serve as members of the World Health Organization advisory 
body—the Foodborne Disease Epidemiology Reference Group—without remuneration. 
The authors declare no further competing interests.


576. PLoS Med. 2015 Dec 3;12(12):e1001921. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001921. 
eCollection 2015 Dec.

World Health Organization Estimates of the Global and Regional Disease Burden of 
22 Foodborne Bacterial, Protozoal, and Viral Diseases, 2010: A Data Synthesis.

Kirk MD(1), Pires SM(2), Black RE(3), Caipo M(4), Crump JA(5), Devleesschauwer 
B(6)(7)(8), Döpfer D(9), Fazil A(10), Fischer-Walker CL(3), Hald T(2), Hall 
AJ(11), Keddy KH(12), Lake RJ(13), Lanata CF(14)(15), Torgerson PR(16), Havelaar 
AH(17)(18)(19), Angulo FJ(1)(11).

Author information:
(1)The Australian National University, Canberra, Australia.
(2)Danish Technical University, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of America.
(4)Food and Agriculture Organization, Rome, Italy.
(5)Centre for International Health, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.
(6)Ghent University, Merelbeke, Belgium.
(7)Université catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium.
(8)Institute of Tropical Medicine, Antwerp, Belgium.
(9)University of Wisconsin, Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, United States of 
America.
(10)Public Health Agency of Canada, Guelph, Ontario, Canada.
(11)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, United States 
of America.
(12)Centre for Enteric Diseases, National Institute for Communicable Diseases, 
and Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South 
Africa.
(13)Institute of Environmental Science and Research, Christchurch, New Zealand.
(14)Instituto de Investigación Nutricional, Lima, Peru.
(15)US Naval Medical Research Unit No. 6, Callao, Peru.
(16)University of Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland.
(17)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, The 
Netherlands.
(18)University of Florida, Gainesville, Gainesville, Florida, United States of 
America.
(19)Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Erratum in
    PLoS Med. 2015 Dec;12(12):e1001940.

BACKGROUND: Foodborne diseases are important worldwide, resulting in 
considerable morbidity and mortality. To our knowledge, we present the first 
global and regional estimates of the disease burden of the most important 
foodborne bacterial, protozoal, and viral diseases.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We synthesized data on the number of foodborne illnesses, 
sequelae, deaths, and Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs), for all diseases 
with sufficient data to support global and regional estimates, by age and 
region. The data sources included varied by pathogen and included systematic 
reviews, cohort studies, surveillance studies and other burden of disease 
assessments. We sought relevant data circa 2010, and included sources from 
1990-2012. The number of studies per pathogen ranged from as few as 5 studies 
for bacterial intoxications through to 494 studies for diarrheal pathogens. To 
estimate mortality for Mycobacterium bovis infections and morbidity and 
mortality for invasive non-typhoidal Salmonella enterica infections, we excluded 
cases attributed to HIV infection. We excluded stillbirths in our estimates. We 
estimate that the 22 diseases included in our study resulted in two billion (95% 
uncertainty interval [UI] 1.5-2.9 billion) cases, over one million (95% UI 
0.89-1.4 million) deaths, and 78.7 million (95% UI 65.0-97.7 million) DALYs in 
2010. To estimate the burden due to contaminated food, we then applied 
proportions of infections that were estimated to be foodborne from a global 
expert elicitation. Waterborne transmission of disease was not included. We 
estimate that 29% (95% UI 23-36%) of cases caused by diseases in our study, or 
582 million (95% UI 401-922 million), were transmitted by contaminated food, 
resulting in 25.2 million (95% UI 17.5-37.0 million) DALYs. Norovirus was the 
leading cause of foodborne illness causing 125 million (95% UI 70-251 million) 
cases, while Campylobacter spp. caused 96 million (95% UI 52-177 million) 
foodborne illnesses. Of all foodborne diseases, diarrheal and invasive 
infections due to non-typhoidal S. enterica infections resulted in the highest 
burden, causing 4.07 million (95% UI 2.49-6.27 million) DALYs. Regionally, DALYs 
per 100,000 population were highest in the African region followed by the South 
East Asian region. Considerable burden of foodborne disease is borne by children 
less than five years of age. Major limitations of our study include data gaps, 
particularly in middle- and high-mortality countries, and uncertainty around the 
proportion of diseases that were foodborne.
CONCLUSIONS: Foodborne diseases result in a large disease burden, particularly 
in children. Although it is known that diarrheal diseases are a major burden in 
children, we have demonstrated for the first time the importance of contaminated 
food as a cause. There is a need to focus food safety interventions on 
preventing foodborne diseases, particularly in low- and middle-income settings.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001921
PMCID: PMC4668831
PMID: 26633831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The findings and conclusions of this report are 
those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the official views, 
decisions or policies of the World Health Organization, US Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention, the Department of the Navy, Department of Defense, the 
US Government or other institutions listed. CFL, AJH, and FJA are employees of 
the US Government. MDK, REB, MC, BD, DD, AF, TH, KHK, RL, CFL, PRT, AHH, and FJA 
serve as members of the World Health Organization advisory body—the Foodborne 
Disease Epidemiology Reference Group—without remuneration. MDK is a member of 
the Editorial Board for PLOS ONE. PRT is a member of the Editorial Board for 
PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases.


577. PLoS Med. 2015 Dec 3;12(12):e1001923. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001923. 
eCollection 2015 Dec.

World Health Organization Global Estimates and Regional Comparisons of the 
Burden of Foodborne Disease in 2010.

Havelaar AH(1)(2)(3), Kirk MD(4), Torgerson PR(5), Gibb HJ(6), Hald T(7), Lake 
RJ(8), Praet N(9), Bellinger DC(10), de Silva NR(11), Gargouri N(12), Speybroeck 
N(13), Cawthorne A(14), Mathers C(14), Stein C(15), Angulo FJ(16), 
Devleesschauwer B(2)(9)(13)(17); World Health Organization Foodborne Disease 
Burden Epidemiology Reference Group.

Collaborators: Adegoke GO, Afshari R, Alasfoor D, Baines J, Balakrishnan K, 
Hamza WM, Black RE, Bolger P, Chaicumpa W, Cravioto A, Döpfer D, Ehiri JE, Fazil 
A, Ferreccio C, Fèvre EM, Hall G, Kasuga F, Keddy KH, Lanata CF, Lei H, Liu X, 
Manyindo B, Nasinyama G, Ongolo-Zogo P, Pitt JI, Rokni MB, Sripa B, van Leeuwen 
R, Verger P, Willingham AL, Zhou XN, Aspinall W, Buchanan R, Budke C, Caipo ML, 
Carabin H, Cole D, Cooke RM, Crump JA, El-Jardali F, Fischer-Walker C, Fürst T, 
Haagsma JA, Hall AJ, Henao O, Hoffmann S, Jensen H, Jessani N, Koopmans MP, 
Levine MM, de Noordhout CM, Majowicz S, McDonald SA, Pires S, Scallan E, Sripa 
B, Thomas M, Verhoef L, Wu F, Zeilmaker M.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, The 
Netherlands.
(2)University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, United States of America.
(3)Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(4)The Australian National University, Canberra, Australia.
(5)University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(6)Gibb Epidemiology Consulting, Arlington, Virginia, United States of America.
(7)Danish Technical University, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(8)Institute of Environmental Science and Research, Christchurch, New Zealand.
(9)Institute of Tropical Medicine, Antwerp, Belgium.
(10)Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America.
(11)University of Kelaniya, Ragama, Sri Lanka.
(12)Hikma Pharmaceuticals, Amman, Jordan.
(13)Université catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium.
(14)World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
(15)World Health Organization, Regional Office for Europe, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(16)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, United States 
of America.
(17)Ghent University, Merelbeke, Belgium.

Illness and death from diseases caused by contaminated food are a constant 
threat to public health and a significant impediment to socio-economic 
development worldwide. To measure the global and regional burden of foodborne 
disease (FBD), the World Health Organization (WHO) established the Foodborne 
Disease Burden Epidemiology Reference Group (FERG), which here reports their 
first estimates of the incidence, mortality, and disease burden due to 31 
foodborne hazards. We find that the global burden of FBD is comparable to those 
of the major infectious diseases, HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. The most 
frequent causes of foodborne illness were diarrheal disease agents, particularly 
norovirus and Campylobacter spp. Diarrheal disease agents, especially 
non-typhoidal Salmonella enterica, were also responsible for the majority of 
deaths due to FBD. Other major causes of FBD deaths were Salmonella Typhi, 
Taenia solium and hepatitis A virus. The global burden of FBD caused by the 31 
hazards in 2010 was 33 million Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs); children 
under five years old bore 40% of this burden. The 14 subregions, defined on the 
basis of child and adult mortality, had considerably different burdens of FBD, 
with the greatest falling on the subregions in Africa, followed by the 
subregions in South-East Asia and the Eastern Mediterranean D subregion. Some 
hazards, such as non-typhoidal S. enterica, were important causes of FBD in all 
regions of the world, whereas others, such as certain parasitic helminths, were 
highly localised. Thus, the burden of FBD is borne particularly by children 
under five years old-although they represent only 9% of the global 
population-and people living in low-income regions of the world. These estimates 
are conservative, i.e., underestimates rather than overestimates; further 
studies are needed to address the data gaps and limitations of the study. 
Nevertheless, all stakeholders can contribute to improvements in food safety 
throughout the food chain by incorporating these estimates into policy 
development at national and international levels.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001923
PMCID: PMC4668832
PMID: 26633896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: AHH, MDK, PRT, HJG, TH, RJL, NP, FJA, DB, NdS, 
NG, NS, and BD serve as members of the World Health Organization advisory 
body—the Foodborne Disease Burden Epidemiology Reference Group—without 
remuneration. The authors declare no competing interests.


578. Int J Stem Cells. 2015 Nov;8(2):209-18. doi: 10.15283/ijsc.2015.8.2.209.

Autologous Stem Cells Transplantation in Egyptian Patients with Liver Cirrhosis 
on Top of Hepatitis C Virus.

Al Tayeb H(1), El Dorry A(2), Amer N(1), Mowafy N(3), Zimaity M(1), Bayoumy 
E(1), Saleh SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Ain Shams University, 
Cairo, Egypt.
(2)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt.
(3)Department of Clinical Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Ain Shams University, 
Cairo, Egypt.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Use of pluripotent stem cells is an ideal solution 
for liver insufficiencies. This work aims is to evaluate the safety and 
feasibility of autologous stem cells transplantation (SCT) in Egyptian patients 
of liver cirrhosis on top of hepatitis C virus (HCV).
SUBJECTS AND RESULTS: 20 patients with HCV induced liver cirrhosis were divided 
into 2 groups. Group I: included 10 patients with liver cirrhosis Child score 
≥9, for whom autologous stem cell transplantation was done using granulocyte 
colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) for stem cells mobilization. Separation and 
collection of the peripheral blood stem cells was done by leukapheresis. G-CSF 
mobilized peripheral blood mononuclear cells (G-CSF PB-MNCs) were counted by 
flow cytometry. Stem cell injection into the hepatic artery was done. Group II: 
included 10 patients with HCV induced liver cirrhosis as a control group. Follow 
up and comparison between both groups were done over a follow up period of 6 
months. The procedure was well tolerated. Mobilization was successful and the 
total number of G-CSF PB-MNCs in the harvests ranged from 25×10(6) to 191×10(6). 
There was improvement in the quality of life, serum albumin, total bilirubin, 
liver enzymes and the Child-Pugh score of group I over the first two-three 
