supplementation with a "sugar-free" multivitamin is recommended to prevent 
micronutrient deficiencies, specifically water-soluble vitamins. Surveillance: 
No formal guidelines for surveillance exist. Once the diagnosis of HFI has been 
made, periodic evaluation of liver function, renal function, and growth is 
reasonable, particularly if compliance with the 
fructose/sucrose/sorbitol/sucralose-restricted diet is not absolute. 
Agents/circumstances to avoid: Enteral or parenteral exposure to fructose, 
sorbitol, sucrose, sucralose, and polysorbate, including fructose, 
fructose-containing oligosaccharides, high-fructose corn syrup, honey, agave 
syrup, inverted sugar, maple-flavored syrup, molasses, palm or coconut sugar, 
and sorghum. In addition, medicines and formulas in which fructose/sucrose may 
not be listed as a primary component need to be avoided; examples include 
syrups, enema solutions, some immunoglobulin solutions, and many infant and 
pediatric nutritional drinks. Although vaccinations are generally safe in 
children with HFI, the two potentially harmful vaccines are the 
sucrose-containing rotavirus vaccines, Rotarix® pre-established oral suspension 
and RotaTeq®, the only rotavirus vaccines approved for use in the US. Any 
individual with a severe adverse reaction immediately following administration 
of either vaccine should be thoroughly investigated for the possibility of HFI. 
Evaluation of relatives at risk: Presymptomatic diagnosis of HFI is warranted 
for sibs of a proband in order to avoid life-threatening complications by 
restricting fructose intake as soon as possible.
GENETIC COUNSELING: HFI is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. If both 
parents are known to be heterozygous for an ALDOB pathogenic variant, each sib 
of an affected individual has at conception a 25% chance of being affected, a 
50% chance of being a carrier, and a 25% chance of inheriting neither pathogenic 
variant. Once the ALDOB pathogenic variants have been identified in an affected 
family member, carrier testing for at-risk relatives, prenatal testing for a 
pregnancy at increased risk, and preimplantation genetic testing are possible.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 26677512


710. Respirology. 2016 Apr;21(3):449-59. doi: 10.1111/resp.12702. Epub 2015 Dec
18.

Increasing awareness of sex differences in airway diseases.

Raghavan D(1), Jain R(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care, Department of Medicine, University 
of Arkansas Medical Sciences, Little Rock, Arkansas, USA.
(2)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care, Department of Medicine, University 
of Texas Southwestern, Dallas, Texas, USA.

There is growing epidemiologic data demonstrating sex differences with respect 
to prevalence and progression of airway diseases, including asthma, chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), cystic fibrosis (CF) and non-CF-related 
bronchiectasis. In asthma, for example, young boys have increased exacerbations 
and higher morbidity than girls which distinctly reverses after adolescence and 
into adulthood. In COPD, a disease that was historically considered an illness 
of men, the number of women dying per year is now greater than in men. Finally, 
women with CF-related bronchiectasis have a decreased median life expectancy 
relative to men and a higher risk of respiratory infections despite equal 
prevalence of the disease. A number of studies now exist demonstrating 
mechanisms behind these sex differences, including influences of genetic 
predisposition, sex hormones and comorbidities. The notable sex disparity has 
potential diagnostic, therapeutic and prognostic implications and for the 
practicing respiratory or general physician, a familiarity with these 
distinctions may augment effective management of patients with airway diseases. 
This review seeks to concisely summarize the data regarding gender-based 
differences in airway diseases, outline the current understanding of 
contributing factors and discuss therapeutic implications for clinicians.

© 2015 Asian Pacific Society of Respirology.

DOI: 10.1111/resp.12702
PMID: 26677803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Sci Rep. 2015 Dec 18;5:18412. doi: 10.1038/srep18412.

TMV mutants with poly(A) tracts of different lengths demonstrate structural 
variations in 3'UTR affecting viral RNAs accumulation and symptom expression.

Guo S(1), Kierzek E(2), Chen G(3), Zhou YJ(4), Wong SM(1)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, National University of Singapore, Republic 
of Singapore.
(2)Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry Polish Academy of Sciences, 61-704 Poznan, 
Noskowskiego 12/14, Poland.
(3)Division of Chemistry and Biological Chemistry, School of Physical and 
Mathematical Sciences, Nanyang Technological University, 21 Nanyang Link, 
Singapore 637371.
(4)Institute of Plant Protection, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences; 
Jiangsu Technical Service Center of Diagnosis and Detection for Plant Virus 
Diseases, Nanjing 210014, PRC.
(5)Temasek Life Sciences Laboratory, Singapore, Republic of Singapore.
(6)National University of Singapore Research Institute in Suzhou, Jiangsu, PRC.

The upstream pseudoknots domain (UPD) of Tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) is located 
at the 3'-untranslated region (UTR). It plays an important role in virus 
replication and translation. To determine the importance of UPD and 3'-UTR, and 
the effects of introduced RNA elements in TMV 3'-UTR, a series of TMV mutants 
with internal poly(A) tract upstream of UPD was constructed for structural 
analysis by selective 2'-hydroxyl acylation analyzed by primer extension 
(SHAPE). TMV(24A+UPD) and TMV(42A+UPD) formed a similar structure as that of TMV 
3'-UTR, but TMV(62A+UPD) structures altered by the introduced poly(A) tract. In 
addition, TMV(24A+UPD) had a higher viral RNAs accumulation than TMV in N. 
benthamiana protoplasts, and induced lethal symptoms in the infected plants. 
TMV(62A+UPD) showed a drastically reduced accumulation, its coat protein was 
undetectable in protoplasts, and the inoculated plants remained symptomless. 
This study analyzed the structures of 3'-UTR of TMV and found that the longer 
poly(A) tract introduced upstream of UPD reduced viral RNAs accumulation and 
induced milder symptoms in N. benthamiana. In conclusion, different lengths of 
the internal poly(A) tract introduced into the TMV 3'UTR lead to structural 
variations that affect virus accumulation and symptom expression.

DOI: 10.1038/srep18412
PMCID: PMC4683447
PMID: 26678425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Int J Behav Nutr Phys Act. 2015 Dec 18;12:156. doi:
10.1186/s12966-015-0315-0.

Impact of changes in television viewing time and physical activity on longevity: 
a prospective cohort study.

Keadle SK(1)(2), Arem H(3), Moore SC(3), Sampson JN(4), Matthews CE(3).

Author information:
(1)Nutritional Epidemiology Branch, Division of Cancer Epidemiology and 
Genetics, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD, USA. sarah.keadle@nih.gov.
(2)Cancer Prevention Fellowship Program, Division of Cancer Prevention, National 
Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD, USA. sarah.keadle@nih.gov.
(3)Nutritional Epidemiology Branch, Division of Cancer Epidemiology and 
Genetics, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(4)Biostatistics Branch, Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National 
Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD, USA.

BACKGROUND: Television viewing is a highly prevalent sedentary behavior among 
older adults, yet the mortality risks associated with hours of daily viewing 
over many years and whether increasing or decreasing viewing time affects 
mortality is unclear. This study examined: 1) the long-term association between 
mortality and daily viewing time; 2) the influence of reducing and increasing in 
television viewing time on longevity and 3) combined effects of television 
viewing and moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) on longevity.
METHODS: Participants included 165,087 adults in the NIH-AARP Diet and Health 
(aged 50-71 yrs) who completed questionnaires at two-time-points (Time 1: 
1994-1996, and Time 2: 2004-2006) and were followed until death or December 31, 
2011. Multivariable-adjusted Cox proportional hazards regression was used to 
estimate Hazard Ratios and 95% confidence intervals (CI) with self-reported 
television viewing and MVPA and all-cause mortality.
RESULTS: Over 6.6 years of follow-up, there were 20,104 deaths. Compared to 
adults who watched < 3 h/day of television at both time points, mortality risk 
was 28% greater (CI:1.21,1.34) those who watched 5+ h/day at both time-points. 
Decreasing television viewing from 5 + h/day to 3-4 h/d was associated with a 
15% reduction in mortality risk (CI:0.80, 0.91) and decreasing to <3 h/day 
resulted in an 12% lower risk (CI:0.79, 0.97). Conversely, adults who increased 
their viewing time to 3-4 h/day had an 17% greater mortality risk (CI:1.10, 
1.24) and those who increased to 5+ h/day had a 45% greater risk (CI:1.32, 
1.58), compared to those who consistently watched <3 h/day. The lowest mortality 
risk was observed in those who were consistently active and watched < 3 h/day of 
television.
CONCLUSIONS: We confirm that prolonged television viewing time was associated 
with greater mortality in older adults and demonstrate for the first time that 
individuals who reduced the amount of time they spent watching television had 
lower mortality. Our findings provide new evidence to support behavioral 
interventions that seek to reduce sedentary television viewing in favor of more 
physically active pursuits, preferably MVPA. Given the high prevalence of 
physical inactivity and prolonged television viewing in older adults, favorable 
changes in these two modifiable behaviors could have substantial public health 
impact.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00340015.

DOI: 10.1186/s12966-015-0315-0
PMCID: PMC4683741
PMID: 26678502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2016 Feb 1;94(2):312-21. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2015.10.017. Epub 2015 Oct 22.

Volumetric Radiosurgery for 1 to 10 Brain Metastases: A Multicenter, Single-Arm, 
Phase 2 Study.

Nichol A(1), Ma R(2), Hsu F(3), Gondara L(4), Carolan H(2), Olson R(5), 
Schellenberg D(6), Germain F(7), Cheung A(6), Peacock M(2), Bergman A(8), 
Vollans E(9), Vellani R(10), McKenzie M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver Centre, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada. Electronic address: anichol@bccancer.bc.ca.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver Centre, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada.
(3)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; 
Department of Radiation Oncology, BC Cancer Agency, Abbotsford Centre, 
Abbotsford, British Columbia, Canada.
(4)Department of Surveillance and Outcomes, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.
(5)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; 
Department of Radiation Oncology, BC Cancer Agency, Centre for the North, Prince 
George, British Columbia, Canada.
(6)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; 
Department of Radiation Oncology, BC Cancer Agency, Fraser Valley Centre, 
Surrey, British Columbia, Canada.
(7)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; 
Department of Radiation Oncology, BC Cancer Agency, Sindi Ahluwalia Centre for 
the Southern Interior, Kelowna, British Columbia, Canada.
(8)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; 
Department of Medical Physics, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British Columbia, 
Canada.
(9)Department of Medical Physics, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British Columbia, 
Canada.
(10)Department of Radiation Therapy, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.

PURPOSE: Interest is growing in treating multiple brain metastases with 
radiosurgery. We report on the effectiveness and tolerability of volumetric 
radiosurgery (VRS).
METHODS AND MATERIALS: We enrolled patients with a ≥6-month estimated life 
expectancy and 1 to 10 brain metastases with a diameter of ≤3 cm at 5 cancer 
centers. Volumetric radiosurgery was delivered in 5 fractions with 98% target 
coverage, prescribed as 95% of 50 Gy (47.5 Gy in 5 fractions) to the metastases 
with no margin and 95% of 40 Gy (38 Gy in 5 fractions) to their 2-mm planning 
target volumes, concurrent with 20 Gy to the whole brain planning target volume. 
The treatment was delivered with daily image guidance using conventional linear 
accelerators and volumetric modulated arc therapy. A magnetic resonance imaging 
scan was obtained every 3 months. The primary endpoint was the 3-month objective 
response in the brain according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid 
Tumors, version 1.1. The principal secondary endpoint was 1-year actuarial 
control of treated metastases. Toxicities were graded using the Common 
Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4.0. The present study is 
registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (clinicaltrials.gov identifier NCT01046123).
RESULTS: From July 2010 to May 2013, 60 patients underwent VRS with 47.5 Gy in 5 
fractions for 12 metastases in the thalamus and basal ganglia (deep metastases) 
and 207 non-deep metastases. The median follow-up period was 30.5 months, and 
the median survival was 10.1 months. For the 43 patients assessable at 3 months, 
the objective response in the brain was 56%. The treated metastases were 
controlled in 88% of patients at 1 year and 84% at 3 years. Overall survival did 
not differ for patients with 4 to 10 versus 1 to 3 metastases (hazard ratio 
1.18, P=.6). The crude incidence of severe radionecrosis (grade 3-5) was 25% (3 
of 12) per deep metastasis, 1.9% (4 of 219) per non-deep metastasis, and 10% (6 
of 60) per patient.
CONCLUSIONS: For non-deep brain metastases, 47.5 Gy in 5 fractions was 
tolerable. Volumetric radiosurgery was effective for long-term control of 
treated brain metastases.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2015.10.017
PMID: 26678660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Salud Publica Mex. 2015 Nov-Dec;57(6):504-13.

[Cost-effectiveness of quadrivalent vaccine against human papilloma virus in 
Argentina based on a dynamic transmission model].

[Article in Spanish]

Pichon-Riviere A(1), Alcaraz A(1), Caporale J(1), Bardach A(1), Rey-Ares L(1), 
Klein K(1), Calderón M(1), Augustovski F(1), Tatti S(2).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Efectividad Clínica y Sanitaria, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(2)Hospital de Clínicas, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of the quadrivalent vaccine against 
human papillomavirus (HPV) in Argentina from the health system perspective.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A dynamic transmission model was used to estimate the 
impact of the vaccine on the incidence of cervical cancer, warts, and other HPV 
related diseases; in quality adjusted life years (QALYs); and in healthcare 
costs.
RESULTS: Vaccination could reduce the risk of cervical cancer by 60% and by 67% 
the risk of genital warts. Compared to a non-vaccine scenario, the immunization 
strategy showed an incremental benefit of 0.00234 QALY per person at an 
incremental cost of US$2.36, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio of US$1007.55 per QALY gained. Sensitivity analysis proved the robustness 
of these results.
CONCLUSIONS: Immunization with the quadrivalent vaccine was a cost-effective 
intervention in Argentina, and it was far below the threshold of one gross 
domestic product per capita (US$15 009) per QALY gained.

PMID: 26679313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Health Technol Assess. 2015 Dec;19(100):1-401, vii-viii. doi:
10.3310/hta191000.

Optimal strategies for monitoring lipid levels in patients at risk or with 
cardiovascular disease: a systematic review with statistical and 
cost-effectiveness modelling.

Perera R(1), McFadden E(1), McLellan J(1), Lung T(2), Clarke P(2), Pérez T(1), 
Fanshawe T(1), Dalton A(1), Farmer A(1), Glasziou P(3), Takahashi O(4), Stevens 
J(5), Irwig L(6), Hirst J(1), Stevens S(1), Leslie A(4), Ohde S(4), Deshpande 
G(4), Urayama K(4), Shine B(7), Stevens R(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Health Research School for Primary Care Research, 
Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences, University of Oxford, 
Oxford, UK.
(2)Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, The University of 
Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia.
(3)Bond University, Gold Coast, Australia.
(4)St Luke's International University Center for Clinical Epidemiology, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(5)Patient and public involvement representativeUK.
(6)Sydney School of Public Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(7)Oxford University Hospitals Trust, Oxford, UK.

BACKGROUND: Various lipid measurements in monitoring/screening programmes can be 
used, alone or in cardiovascular risk scores, to guide treatment for prevention 
of cardiovascular disease (CVD). Because some changes in lipids are due to 
variability rather than true change, the value of lipid-monitoring strategies 
needs evaluation.
OBJECTIVE: To determine clinical value and cost-effectiveness of different 
monitoring intervals and different lipid measures for primary and secondary 
prevention of CVD.
DATA SOURCES: We searched databases and clinical trials registers from 2007 
(including the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, EMBASE, 
the Clinical Trials Register, the Current Controlled Trials register, and the 
Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature) to update and extend 
previous systematic reviews. Patient-level data from the Clinical Practice 
Research Datalink and St Luke's Hospital, Japan, were used in statistical 
modelling. Utilities and health-care costs were drawn from the literature.
METHODS: In two meta-analyses, we used prospective studies to examine 
associations of lipids with CVD and mortality, and randomised controlled trials 
to estimate lipid-lowering effects of atorvastatin doses. Patient-level data 
were used to estimate progression and variability of lipid measurements over 
time, and hence to model lipid-monitoring strategies. Results are expressed as 
rates of true-/false-positive and true-/false-negative tests for high lipid or 
high CVD risk. We estimated incremental costs per quality-adjusted life-year.
RESULTS: A total of 115 publications reported strength of association between 
different lipid measures and CVD events in 138 data sets. The summary adjusted 
hazard ratio per standard deviation of total cholesterol (TC) to high-density 
lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol ratio was 1.25 (95% confidence interval 1.15 to 
1.35) for CVD in a primary prevention population but heterogeneity was high 
(I(2) = 98%); similar results were observed for non-HDL cholesterol, 
apolipoprotein B and other ratio measures. Associations were smaller for other 
single lipid measures. Across 10 trials, low-dose atorvastatin (10 and 20 mg) 
effects ranged from a TC reduction of 0.92 mmol/l to 2.07 mmol/l, and 
low-density lipoprotein reduction of between 0.88 mmol/l and 1.86 mmol/l. 
Effects of 40 mg and 80 mg were reported by one trial each. For primary 
prevention, over a 3-year period, we estimate annual monitoring would 
unnecessarily treat 9 per 1000 more men (28 vs. 19 per 1000) and 5 per 1000 more 
women (17 vs. 12 per 1000) than monitoring every 3 years. However, annual 
monitoring would also undertreat 9 per 1000 fewer men (7 vs. 16 per 1000) and 4 
per 1000 fewer women (7 vs. 11 per 1000) than monitoring at 3-year intervals. 
For secondary prevention, over a 3-year period, annual monitoring would increase 
unnecessary treatment changes by 66 per 1000 men and 31 per 1000 women, and 
decrease undertreatment by 29 per 1000 men and 28 per 1000 men, compared with 
monitoring every 3 years. In cost-effectiveness, strategies with increased 
screening/monitoring dominate. Exploratory analyses found that any unknown harms 
of statins would need utility decrements as large as 0.08 (men) to 0.11 (women) 
per statin user to reverse this finding in primary prevention.
LIMITATION: Heterogeneity in meta-analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: While acknowledging known and potential unknown harms of statins, 
we find that more frequent monitoring strategies are cost-effective compared 
with others. Regular lipid monitoring in those with and without CVD is likely to 
be beneficial to patients and to the health service. Future research should 
include trials of the benefits and harms of atorvastatin 40 and 80 mg, 
large-scale surveillance of statin safety, and investigation of the effect of 
monitoring on medication adherence.
STUDY REGISTRATION: This study is registered as PROSPERO CRD42013003727.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta191000
PMCID: PMC4781609
PMID: 26680162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Lancet. 2016 Feb 20;387(10020):730-1. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(15)01022-3.
Epub  2015 Dec 9.

What can we expect of health in old age?

Rockwood K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia B3H IC6, 
Canada; Institute of Brain, Behaviour and Mental Health, University of 
Manchester, Manchester, UK. Electronic address: kenneth.rockwood@dal.ca.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2016 Feb 20;387(10020):779-86.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(15)01022-3
PMID: 26680215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Lancet. 2016 Feb 20;387(10020):779-86. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(15)00947-2.
Epub  2015 Dec 9.

A comparison of health expectancies over two decades in England: results of the 
Cognitive Function and Ageing Study I and II.

Jagger C(1), Matthews FE(2), Wohland P(3), Fouweather T(4), Stephan BC(3), 
Robinson L(4), Arthur A(5), Brayne C(6); Medical Research Council Cognitive 
Function and Ageing Collaboration.

Collaborators: Green E, Gao L, Barnes R, Warwick J, Mattison A, Arthur A, 
Baldwin C, Barnes LE, Bond J, Brayne C, Comas-Herrera A, Dening T, Forster G, 
Harrison S, Ince PG, Jagger C, Lowe J, Macdonald AS, Matthews FE, McCracken CF, 
McKeith IG, Moody C, Parry B, Robinson L, Stephan BC, Wharton S, Wittenberg R, 
Woods B, Allen I.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health and Society, Faculty of Medicine, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle, UK; Newcastle University Institute for Ageing, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle, UK. Electronic address: carol.jagger@newcastle.ac.uk.
(2)Institute of Health and Society, Faculty of Medicine, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle, UK; Newcastle University Institute for Ageing, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle, UK; Medical Research Council (MRC) Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge 
Institute of Public Health, Cambridge, UK.
(3)Institute of Health and Society, Faculty of Medicine, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle, UK; Newcastle University Institute for Ageing, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle, UK.
(4)Institute of Health and Society, Faculty of Medicine, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle, UK.
(5)School of Health Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK.
(6)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Cambridge Institute of Public 
Health, Cambridge University, Cambridge, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2016 Feb 20;387(10020):730-1.

BACKGROUND: Whether rises in life expectancy are increases in good-quality years 
is of profound importance worldwide, with population ageing. We investigate how 
various health expectancies have changed in England between 1991 and 2011, with 
identical study design and methods in each decade.
METHODS: Baseline data from the Cognitive Function and Ageing Studies in 
populations aged 65 years or older in three geographically defined centres in 
England (Cambridgeshire, Newcastle, and Nottingham) provided prevalence 
estimates for three health measures: self-perceived health (defined as 
excellent-good, fair, or poor); cognitive impairment (defined as 
moderate-severe, mild, or none, as assessed by Mini-Mental State Examination 
score); and disability in activities of daily living (defined as none, mild, or 
moderate-severe). Health expectancies for the three regions combined were 
calculated by the Sullivan method, which applies the age-specific and 
sex-specific prevalence of the health measure to a standard life table for the 
same period.
FINDINGS: Between 1991 and 2011, gains in life expectancy at age 65 years (4·5 
years for men and 3·6 years for women) were accompanied by equivalent gains in 
years free of any cognitive impairment (4·2 years [95% CI 4·2-4·3] for men and 
4·4 years [4·3-4·5] for women) and decreased years with mild or moderate-severe 
cognitive impairment. Gains were also identified in years in excellent or good 
self-perceived health (3·8 years [95% CI 3·5-4·1] for men and 3·1 years 
[2·7-3·4] for women). Gains in disability-free years were much smaller than 
those in excellent-good self-perceived health or those free from cognitive 
impairment, especially for women (0·5 years [0·2-0·9] compared with 2·6 years 
[2·3-2·9] for men), mostly because of increased mild disability.
INTERPRETATION: During the past two decades in England, we report an absolute 
compression (ie, reduction) of cognitive impairment, a relative compression of 
self-perceived health (ie, proportion of life spent healthy is increasing), and 
dynamic equilibrium of disability (ie, less severe disability is increasing but 
more severe disability is not). Reasons for these patterns are unknown but might 
include increasing obesity during previous decades. Our findings have 
wide-ranging implications for health services and for extension of working life.
FUNDING: UK Medical Research Council.

Copyright © 2016 Jagger et al. Open Access article distributed under the terms 
of CC BY. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(15)00947-2
PMCID: PMC4761658
PMID: 26680218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Surg Technol Int. 2015 Nov;27:251-6.

A Comprehensive Assessment of Various Outcome Scores to Evaluate Total Hip 
Arthroplasties.

Jauregui JJ(1), Lerner AL(1), Mistry JB(1), Chughtai M(1), Elmallah RK(1), Mont 
MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Rubin Institute for Advanced Orthopedics, Center for Joint Preservation and 
Replacement, Sinai Hospital of Baltimore, Baltimore, Maryland.

INTRODUCTION: Many scoring systems have been developed that serve to evaluate 
outcomes following total hip arthroplasty (THA). However, most systems focus on 
specific aspects of a patient's recovery rather than investigating a broad 
spectrum of parameters, which prevent physicians from obtaining a sufficient 
impression of a patient's recovery. Therefore, we evaluated existing scoring 
systems to assess the outcome categories included and parameters of interest.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We examined all hip scoring systems currently available 
in the literature. The outcomes measured in each scoring system were 
sub-classified into one of four categories; subjective, objective, 
rehabilitative, and quality of life. We determined the number of scoring systems 
that incorporated each of these four categories and we assessed the most common 
parameters in each. The categories and individual parameters were assigned a 
relative weighted mean score based on how often they were incorporated, in an 
effort to determine their importance.
RESULTS: We identified 42 hip scoring systems consisting of 44 individual 
parameters, which were divided into the above four categories. Of the relevant 
scoring systems, 74% included subjective parameters, 31% included objective 
parameters, 90% included rehabilitative parameters, and 62% included quality of 
life parameters. The most commonly assessed subjective parameters include pain, 
stiffness, and general hip difficulty. The most commonly assessed objective 
parameters include general/combined ROM, flexion/extension, and 
abduction/adduction. The most commonly assessed rehabilitative parameters 
include the ability to walk, the ability to climb stairs, and the ability to 
reach to the floor. The most commonly assessed quality of life measures include 
the ability to use a car, performance of light domestic duties, and performance 
of heavy domestic duties. The category of rehabilitative practices carried the 
greatest weighted mean (49%) in hip scoring systems, followed by subjective 
(40%), quality of life (6%), and objective (5%). With regard to individual hip 
outcome parameters, pain carried the greatest weighted mean (23%), followed by 
the ability to walk and the ability to perform general activities (11% each).
CONCLUSION: Patient outcomes can be evaluated by the use of scoring systems in 
an effort to determine the effectiveness of THA in regaining function and 
improving quality of life. Determining the frequency and importance of 
parameters in current scoring systems may allow for a more accurate and 
purposeful assessment of post-operative function and patient satisfaction. 
Understanding what is evaluated in existing scoring systems may shed light on 
the future development of a comprehensive outcome questionnaire.

PMID: 26680406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Can J Public Health. 2015 Jun 18;106(6):e362-8. doi: 10.17269/cjph.106.4983.

Estimated public health impacts of changes in concentrations of fine particle 
air pollution in Canada, 2000 to 2011.

Stieb DM(1), Judek S, van Donkelaar A, Martin RV, Brand K, Shin HH, Burnett RT, 
Smith-Doiron MH.

Author information:
(1)Health Canada. dave.stieb@hc-sc.gc.ca.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the public health impacts of changes in fine particle 
air pollution in Canada between 2000 and 2011, employing nationally 
comprehensive exposure estimates and quantifying the impacts on life expectancy, 
mortality and morbidity.
METHODS: We employed spatially comprehensive exposure estimates derived from 
satellite remote sensing to estimate the effects of actual observed changes in 
concentrations of fine particulate matter (PM), of median aerodynamic diameter 
<2.5 μm (i.e., PM2.5), from 2000 to 2011. We estimated changes in life 
expectancy using standard life table methods and changes in frequency of health 
outcomes as the product of population, baseline rate of the health outcome and 
the proportional change in health outcome per specified change in PM2.5 
concentration.
RESULTS: A population weighted average decrease in PM2.5 of nearly 25% (2.0 
μg/m³) was observed between 2000 and 2011. This was estimated to result in a 
national population weighted average increase in life expectancy of 0.10 years 
(95% confidence interval 0.03-0.23; up to 0.34 years in specific census 
divisions) and reductions in the frequency of mortality and morbidity of up to 
3.6%. Increases in PM2.5 up to 3.5 μg/m³ were observed in some census divisions, 
particularly in the prairies.
CONCLUSION: At the national level, changes in PM2.5 concentrations between 2000 
and 2011 were associated with an estimated improvement in national population 
weighted average life expectancy and a net reduction in mortality and morbidity. 
Areas that failed to improve or that worsened during this period warrant 
additional scrutiny to identify options for reducing PM2.5 concentrations.

OBJECTIFS: Estimer les impacts sur la santé publique des changements dans la 
pollution de l’air en fines particules au Canada entre 2000 et 2011, en 
employant des estimations d’exposition complètes à l’échelle nationale et en 
quantifiant les impacts sur l’espérance de vie, la mortalité et la morbidité. 
Méthode: Nous avons employé des estimations d’exposition exhaustives dérivées de 
la télédétection satellitaire pour estimer les effets des changements réels 
observés dans les concentrations en fines matières particulaires (MP) de 
diamètre aérodynamique médian <2.5 µm (MP2.5), entre 2000 et 2011. Nous avons 
estimé les changements dans l’espérance de vie à l’aide des méthodes standard 
des tables de survie, et les changements dans la fréquence des résultats 
sanitaires en fonction de la population, du niveau de référence des résultats 
sanitaires et du changement proportionnel dans les résultats sanitaires selon le 
changement spécifié de la concentration en MP2.5. Résultats: Une diminution 
moyenne des MP2.5 de près de 25 % (2.0 μg/ m3), pondérée selon la population, a 
été observée entre 2000 et 2011. On estime que cela a entraîné une hausse 
moyenne nationale de l’espérance de vie, pondérée selon la population, de 0.10 
an (intervalle de confiance de 95 %: 0.03–0.23; jusqu’à 0.34 an dans certains 
secteurs du recensement) et des baisses de fréquence de la mortalité et de la 
morbidité jusqu’à 3.6 %. Des augmentations maximales de 3.5 μg/m3 des MP2.5 ont 
été observées dans certains secteurs du recensement, en particulier dans les 
Prairies. Conclusion: À l’échelle nationale, les changements dans les 
concentrations en MP2.5 survenus entre 2000 et 2011 étaient associés à une 
amélioration estimative de l’espérance de vie moyenne nationale, pondérée selon 
la population, et à une baisse nette de la mortalité et de la morbidité. Les 
régions où la situation ne s’est pas améliorée ou s’est aggravée durant la 
période à l’étude devraient faire l’objet d’un examen approfondi afin de trouver 
des options pour réduire les concentrations en MP2.5.

DOI: 10.17269/cjph.106.4983
PMCID: PMC6972080
PMID: 26680426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Eur J Health Econ. 2016 Nov;17(8):1041-1053. doi: 10.1007/s10198-015-0753-2.
 Epub 2015 Dec 18.

Modeling the costs and long-term health benefits of screening the general 
population for risks of cardiovascular disease: a review of methods used in the 
literature.

Epstein D(1)(2), García-Mochón L(3), Kaptoge S(4), Thompson SG(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Economics, University of Granada, Campus de la Cartuja, 
18071, Granada, Spain. davidepstein@ugr.es.
(2)Escuela Andaluza de Salud Pública, Granada, Spain. davidepstein@ugr.es.
(3)Escuela Andaluza de Salud Pública, Granada, Spain.
(4)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, UK.

BACKGROUND: Strategies for screening and intervening to reduce the risk of 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) in primary care settings need to be assessed in 
terms of both their costs and long-term health effects. We undertook a 
literature review to investigate the methodologies used.
METHODS: In a framework of developing a new health-economic model for evaluating 
different screening strategies for primary prevention of CVD in Europe (EPIC-CVD 
project), we identified seven key modeling issues and reviewed papers published 
between 2000 and 2013 to assess how they were addressed.
RESULTS: We found 13 relevant health-economic modeling studies of screening to 
prevent CVD in primary care. The models varied in their degree of complexity, 
with between two and 33 health states. Programmes that screen the whole 
population by a fixed cut-off (e.g., predicted 10-year CVD risk >20 %) identify 
predominantly elderly people, who may not be those most likely to benefit from 
long-term treatment. Uncertainty and model validation were generally poorly 
addressed. Few studies considered the disutility of taking drugs in otherwise 
healthy individuals or the budget impact of the programme.
CONCLUSIONS: Model validation, incorporation of parameter uncertainty, and 
sensitivity analyses for assumptions made are all important components of model 
building and reporting, and deserve more attention. Complex models may not 
necessarily give more accurate predictions. Availability of a large enough 
source dataset to reliably estimate all relevant input parameters is crucial for 
achieving credible results. Decision criteria should consider budget impact and 
the medicalization of the population as well as cost-effectiveness thresholds.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-015-0753-2
PMCID: PMC5047941
PMID: 26682549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Demography. 2016 Feb;53(1):215-39. doi: 10.1007/s13524-015-0450-x.

Hispanic-White Differences in Lifespan Variability in the United States.

Lariscy JT(1), Nau C(2), Firebaugh G(3), Hummer RA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Memphis, 223 Clement Hall, Memphis, 
TN, 38152, USA. joseph.lariscy@memphis.edu.
(2)The Johns Hopkins Global Obesity Prevention Center, Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, W3508, 615 Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.
(3)Population Research Institute and Department of Sociology and Criminology, 
The Pennsylvania State University, 902 Oswald Tower, University Park, PA, 16802, 
USA.
(4)Carolina Population Center and Department of Sociology, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, 206 West Franklin Street, Room 211, Chapel Hill, NC, 
27516, USA.

This study is the first to investigate whether and, if so, why Hispanics and 
non-Hispanic whites in the United States differ in the variability of their 
lifespans. Although Hispanics enjoy higher life expectancy than whites, very 
little is known about how lifespan variability-and thus uncertainty about length 
of life-differs by race/ethnicity. We use 2010 U.S. National Vital Statistics 
System data to calculate lifespan variance at ages 10+ for Hispanics and whites, 
and then decompose the Hispanic-white variance difference into cause-specific 
spread, allocation, and timing effects. In addition to their higher life 
expectancy relative to whites, Hispanics also exhibit 7 % lower lifespan 
variability, with a larger gap among women than men. Differences in 
cause-specific incidence (allocation effects) explain nearly two-thirds of 
Hispanics' lower lifespan variability, mainly because of the higher mortality 
from suicide, accidental poisoning, and lung cancer among whites. Most of the 
remaining Hispanic-white variance difference is due to greater age dispersion 
(spread effects) in mortality from heart disease and residual causes among 
whites than Hispanics. Thus, the Hispanic paradox-that a socioeconomically 
disadvantaged population (Hispanics) enjoys a mortality advantage over a 
socioeconomically advantaged population (whites)-pertains to lifespan 
variability as well as to life expectancy. Efforts to reduce U.S. lifespan 
variability and simultaneously increase life expectancy, especially for whites, 
should target premature, young adult causes of death-in particular, suicide, 
accidental poisoning, and homicide. We conclude by discussing how the analysis 
of Hispanic-white differences in lifespan variability contributes to our 
understanding of the Hispanic paradox.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-015-0450-x
PMCID: PMC4771518
PMID: 26682740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Clin Radiol. 2016 Jan;71(1):27-31. doi: 10.1016/j.crad.2015.07.009. Epub
2015  Dec 10.

A comparison of two digital mammography systems: are there any differences?

Evans T(1), Burlton B(2), Devenish G(3), Stevens G(4), Lewis M(5), Gower Thomas 
K(4).

Author information:
(1)Royal Glamorgan Hospital, Llantrisant, CF72 8XR, UK. Electronic address: 
Thomas.Evans3@wales.nhs.uk.
(2)Cardiff University School of Medicine, Cardiff, CF14 4XN, UK.
(3)Royal Glamorgan Hospital, Llantrisant, CF72 8XR, UK.
(4)Breast Test Wales, 18 Cathedral Road, Cardiff, CF11 9LJ, UK.
(5)University of South Wales, Pontypridd, CF37 4AT, UK.

Comment in
    Clin Radiol. 2016 Jan;71(1):25-6.

AIM: To compare the performance of two newly introduced digital mammography 
technologies (Sectra and Hologic) to the Welsh breast-screening service; 
specifically, whether there are differences in the number, type, size, and grade 
of tumour identified.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a retrospective study of a prospectively 
collected database of 50,000 consecutive screening episodes from 2012; clients 
were aged 49-88 years (mean 61.9 years). All studies were double-blind read by 
two readers. All tumours identified in the two arms of the study were detailed 
and compared specifically with regards to type (ductal or lobular) size, grade, 
and whether invasive or non-invasive. Performance was analysed for any 
statistically significant differences.
RESULTS: Twenty-five thousand consecutive women were screened with Hologic 
(recall rate 5.9% of which 18% were cancer) and 25,000 were screened with Sectra 
digital mammography (recall rate 4.3% and 22% were cancer). Five hundred tumours 
were found with no significant difference in invasive cancer detection or 
between ductal or lobular subtypes. The Hologic system detected 267 tumours; of 
which 81 (30.33%) were non-invasive (3.24 per 1000), compared to the Sectra 
system with 233 cancers overall including 36 non-invasive (15.45%, 1.44 per 
1000). The difference in non-invasive lesions (mainly ductal carcinoma in situ 
[DCIS]) detection was significant (p<0.001); 38% of which were high nuclear 
grade (HNG) using Hologic and 50% HNG lesions using Sectra. There was no 
significant difference in non-invasive size between the two technologies. The 
mean glandular dose received using the Sectra system was significantly less 
(0.7 mGy) compared to the Hologic system (1.6 mGy) for a 50-60 mm breast 
thickness.
CONCLUSIONS: Population breast screening is frequently criticised for 
identifying lesions irrelevant to long-term outcomes or life expectancy and 
although the two systems seem comparable in terms of invasive cancer detection, 
a statistically significant difference in the detection of non-invasive lesions 
was seen, not reported in previous studies. This is a contentious issue, as 
identifying more DCIS has the potential to over-diagnose screened women leading 
to increased morbidity, higher "cancer detection rates", longer cancer waiting 
times, and reduced patient psychological wellbeing. The Sectra system is able to 
deliver a similar invasive detection cancer delivering a much lower dose 
mammogram, which is important in limiting overall population radiation dose. 
Further study as to whether the differences in tumour detection rates are 
clinically significant long term are now required.

Copyright © 2015 The Royal College of Radiologists. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.crad.2015.07.009
PMID: 26683090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. PLoS One. 2015 Dec 18;10(12):e0143764. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0143764. 
eCollection 2015.

Threshold Levels of Infant and Under-Five Mortality for Crossover between Life 
Expectancies at Ages Zero, One and Five in India: A Decomposition Analysis.

Dubey M(1), Ram U(2), Ram F(1).

Author information:
(1)International Institute for Population Sciences (IIPS), Mumbai, Maharashtra, 
India.
(2)Department of Public Health and Mortality Studies, International Institute 
for Population Sciences (IIPS), Mumbai, Maharashtra, India.

OBJECTIVES: Under the prevailing conditions of imbalanced life table and 
historic gender discrimination in India, our study examines crossover between 
life expectancies at ages zero, one and five years for India and quantifies the 
relative share of infant and under-five mortality towards this crossover.
METHODS: We estimate threshold levels of infant and under-five mortality 
required for crossover using age specific death rates during 1981-2009 for 16 
Indian states by sex (comprising of India's 90% population in 2011). Kitagawa 
decomposition equations were used to analyse relative share of infant and 
under-five mortality towards crossover.
FINDINGS: India experienced crossover between life expectancies at ages zero and 
five in 2004 for menand in 2009 for women; eleven and nine Indian states have 
experienced this crossover for men and women, respectively. Men usually 
experienced crossover four years earlier than the women. Improvements in 
mortality below ages five have mostly contributed towards this crossover. Life 
expectancy at age one exceeds that at age zero for both men and women in India 
except for Kerala (the only state to experience this crossover in 2000 for men 
and 1999 for women).
CONCLUSIONS: For India, using life expectancy at age zero and under-five 
mortality rate together may be more meaningful to measure overall health of its 
people until the crossover. Delayed crossover for women, despite higher life 
expectancy at birth than for men reiterates that Indian women are still 
disadvantaged and hence use of life expectancies at ages zero, one and five 
become important for India. Greater programmatic efforts to control leading 
causes of death during the first month and 1-59 months in high child mortality 
areas can help India to attain this crossover early.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0143764
PMCID: PMC4684288
PMID: 26683617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


724. Melanoma Res. 2016 Apr;26(2):138-44. doi: 10.1097/CMR.0000000000000218.

Prognostic markers and tumour growth kinetics in melanoma patients progressing 
on vemurafenib.

Seifert H(1), Fisher R, Martin-Liberal J, Edmonds K, Hughes P, Khabra K, Gore M, 
Larkin J.

Author information:
(1)aDepartment of Medical Oncology, Royal Marsden NHS Trust, London bDepartment 
of Statistics, Royal Marsden NHS Trust, Surrey, UK.

The BRAF inhibitor vemurafenib is an effective drug in patients with BRAF mutant 
metastatic melanoma, but resistance occurs after a median of 6 months. The 
anti-CTLA4-antibody, ipilimumab, is a standard first-line and second-line 
treatment option in Europe, with a median time to response of 2-3 months, but 
some patients show rapid clinical deterioration before that. The aim of this 
analysis was to identify prognostic markers for survival after failure of 
vemurafenib treatment to identify patients who have a sufficient life expectancy 
to respond to new immunotherapy treatments. We retrospectively analysed 101 
consecutive unselected patients treated with vemurafenib for metastatic melanoma 
at a single institution. The association between clinical parameters and death 
within 3 months after cessation of vemurafenib (n=69) was assessed by binary 
logistic and Cox regression. Of the patients, 45% died within 3 months of 
progression on vemurafenib. Elevated baseline serum lactate dehydrogenase, 
absence of normalization of serum lactate dehydrogenase on vemurafenib therapy, 
performance status of at least 2 at progression and time from primary tumour to 
metastatic disease less than 5 years were identified as poor prognostic markers. 
In an exploratory tumour growth kinetics analysis (n=16), we found that 
following cessation of vemurafenib, approximately a third each showed a stable, 
decelerated or accelerated rate of tumour growth. Patients with these poor 
prognostic markers are unlikely to have sufficient life expectancy to complete 
ipilimumab treatment after failure with vemurafenib. Consideration needs to be 
given to the elective use of immunotherapy before patients become resistant to 
vemurafenib. This requires prospective randomized evaluation. Our tumour growth 
kinetics analysis requires confirmation; however, it may suggest that 
intermittent vemurafenib treatment should be investigated in clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1097/CMR.0000000000000218
PMID: 26684061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. BMC Health Serv Res. 2015 Dec 18;15:566. doi: 10.1186/s12913-015-1228-y.

Ranolazine for the symptomatic treatment of patients with chronic angina 
pectoris in Greece: a cost-utility study.

Kourlaba G(1), Vlachopoulos C(2), Parissis J(3), Kanakakis J(4), Gourzoulidis 
G(5), Maniadakis N(6).

Author information:
(1)The Stavros Niarchos Foundation-Collaborative Center for Clinical 
Epidemiology and Outcomes Research (CLEO), National and Kapodistrian University 
of Athens, School of Medicine, Athens, Greece. kurlaba@gmail.com.
(2)1st Department of Cardiology, Athens University Hospital "Ippokrateio", 
Athens, Greece. cvlachop@otenet.gr.
(3)Heart Failure Unit, Department of Cardiology, Athens University Hospital 
"Attikon", Athens, Greece. jparissis@yahoo.com.
(4)Department of Cardiology, "Alexandra" Hospital, Athens, Greece. 
jkanakakis@yahoo.gr.
(5)Department of Health Services Organization & Management, National School of 
Public Health, Athens, Greece. gourzoulidis.g@gmail.com.
(6)Department of Health Services Organization & Management, National School of 
Public Health, Athens, Greece. nmaniadakis@esdy.edu.gr.

BACKGROUND: To conduct an economic evaluation comparing ranolazine as add-on 
therapy to standard-of-care (SoC) with SoC alone in patients with stable angina 
who did not respond adequately to first line therapy, in Greece.
METHODS: A decision tree model was locally adapted in the Greek setting to 
evaluate the cost-utility of ranolazine during a 6-month period. The analysis 
was conducted from a third-party payer perspective. The clinical inputs were 
extracted from the published literature. The cost inputs considered in the model 
reflect drug acquisition, hospitalizations, vascular interventions and 
monitoring of patients. The resource utilization data were obtained from 3 local 
experts. All costs refer to the year 2014. Cost-effectiveness was assessed by 
means of the incremental cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained with 
the ranolazine as add-on therapy relative to SoC alone (ICER). Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis (PSA) was performed.
RESULTS: Ranolazine as add-on therapy was more costly compared to SoC alone, as 
the 6-month total cost per patient was €1170 and € 984, respectively. Patients 
received ranolazine plus SoC and SoC alone gained 0.3155 QALYs and 0.2752 QALYs, 
respectively. Ranolazine plus SoC resulted in an ICER equal to €4620 per QALY 
gained, well below the threshold of €34,000 per QALY gained. The PSA showed that 
the likelihood of ranolazine plus SoC being cost-effective at the threshold of 
€34,000 per QALY gained was 100 %.
CONCLUSIONS: Τhe results suggest that ranolazine as add-on treatment may be a 
cost-effective alternative for the symptomatic treatment of patients with 
chronic stable angina in Greece.

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-015-1228-y
PMCID: PMC4683812
PMID: 26684327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Cold Spring Harb Perspect Med. 2015 Dec 18;6(2):a025072. doi: 
10.1101/cshperspect.a025072.

The Economic Promise of Delayed Aging.

Goldman D(1).

Author information:
(1)USC Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, California 90089.

Biomedicine has made enormous progress in the last half century in treating 
common diseases. However, we are becoming victims of our own success. Causes of 
death strongly associated with biological aging, such as heart disease, cancer, 
Alzheimer's disease, and stroke-cluster within individuals as they grow older. 
These conditions increase frailty and limit the benefits of continued, 
disease-specific improvements. Here, we show that a "delayed-aging" scenario, 
modeled on the biological benefits observed in the most promising animal models, 
could solve this problem of competing risks. The economic value of delayed aging 
is estimated to be $7.1 trillion over 50 years. Total government costs, 
including Social Security, rise substantially with delayed aging--mainly caused 
by longevity increases--but we show that these can be offset by modest policy 
changes. Expanded biomedical research to delay aging appears to be a highly 
efficient way to forestall disease and extend healthy life.

Copyright © 2016 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press; all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1101/cshperspect.a025072
PMCID: PMC4743067
PMID: 26684333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. PLoS One. 2015 Dec 18;10(12):e0145261. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0145261. 
eCollection 2015.

Dysregulated Immune Activation in Second-Line HAART HIV+ Patients Is Similar to 
That of Untreated Patients.

Espíndola MS(1), Lima LJ(1), Soares LS(1), Cacemiro MC(1), Zambuzi FA(1), de 
Souza Gomes M(2), Amaral LR(2), Bollela VR(3), Martins-Filho OA(4), Frantz 
FG(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Ciencias Farmaceuticas de Ribeirao Preto, Universidade de Sao 
Paulo, Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil.
(2)Laboratorio de Bioinformatica e Analises Moleculares - INGEB / FACOM, 
Universidade Federal de Uberlandia, Patos de Minas, MG, Brazil.
(3)Faculdade de Medicina de Ribeirao Preto, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Ribeirao 
Preto, SP, Brazil.
(4)Laboratorio de Biomarcadores para Diagnostico e Monitoramento, Centro de 
Pesquisas Rene Rachou, FIOCRUZ, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Successful highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has changed 
the outcome of AIDS patients worldwide because the complete suppression of 
viremia improves health and prolongs life expectancy of HIV-1+ patients. 
However, little attention has been given to the immunological profile of 
patients under distinct HAART regimens. This work aimed to investigate the 
differences in the immunological pattern of HIV-1+ patients under the first- or 
second-line HAART in Brazil.
METHODS: CD4+ T cell counts, Viral load, and plasma concentration of sCD14, 
sCD163, MCP-1, RANTES, IP-10, IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, IL-12, IFN-α, IFN-γ, IL-4, 
IL-5, and IL-10 were assessed for immunological characterization of the 
following clinical groups: Non-infected individuals (NI; n = 66), HIV-1+ 
untreated (HIV; n = 46), HIV-1+ treated with first-line HAART (HAART 1; n = 15); 
and HIV-1+ treated with second-line HAART (HAART 2; n = 15).
RESULTS: We found that the immunological biosignature pattern of HAART 1 is 
similar to that of NI individuals, especially in patients presenting slow 
progression of the disease, while patients under HAART 2 remain in a moderate 
inflammatory state, which is similar to that of untreated HIV patients pattern. 
Network correlations revealed that differences in IP-10, TNF-α, IL-6, IFN-α, and 
IL-10 interactions were primordial in HIV disease and treatment. Heat map and 
decision tree analysis identified that IP-10>TNF-α>IFN-α were the best 
respective HAART segregation biomarkers.
CONCLUSION: HIV patients in different HAART regimens develop distinct 
immunological biosignature, introducing a novel perspective into disease outcome 
and potential new therapies that consider HAART patients as a heterogeneous 
group.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0145261
PMCID: PMC4684276
PMID: 26684789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


728. PLoS One. 2015 Dec 18;10(12):e0140662. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0140662. 
eCollection 2015.

Economic Evaluation of a General Hospital Unit for Older People with Delirium 
and Dementia (TEAM Randomised Controlled Trial).

Tanajewski L(1), Franklin M(1), Gkountouras G(1), Berdunov V(1), Harwood RH(2), 
Goldberg SE(3), Bradshaw LE(4), Gladman JR(4), Elliott RA(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, United Kingdom.
(2)Health Care of Older People, Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, 
Queens Medical Centre, Nottingham, United Kingdom.
(3)School of Health Sciences, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, United 
Kingdom.
(4)Division of Rehabilitation and Ageing, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, 
United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: One in three hospital acute medical admissions is of an older person 
with cognitive impairment. Their outcomes are poor and the quality of their care 
in hospital has been criticised. A specialist unit to care for older people with 
delirium and dementia (the Medical and Mental Health Unit, MMHU) was developed 
and then tested in a randomised controlled trial where it delivered 
significantly higher quality of, and satisfaction with, care, but no significant 
benefits in terms of health status outcomes at three months.
