operatively during 2003. Data for survivorship and mobilization was collected 
six months, one and ten years after the operation. Kaplan-Meier log rang test 
was used for the survival analysis and cox regression for multivariate analysis 
of prediction factors such as age, gender, time to surgery after trauma, type of 
fracture, ambulation status before injury and early walking ability after the 
surgery.
RESULTS: Two hundred and thirty three patients were finally included to the 
study. Gender (p = 0.64) and type of fracture (p = 0.92) seem to have no 
statistically significant impact on survivorship. Age (p < 0.001), time of 
surgery after the trauma (p = 0.001), ambulation status (p < 0.001) and early 
walking ability after the surgery (p < 0.001) seem to have statistically 
significant impact on mortality, as independent factors. The significance is 
present one year and ten years after the surgery. However, according to the 
multivariate analysis, time to surgery after trauma and age lose significance, 
while early walking ability remain significant one and ten years after surgery 
(p < 0.001). Ambulation status seem to lose significance early after surgery, 
but reach significance ten years postoperatively (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: In summary, it could be stated that early walking ability after an 
operation for a hip fracture in elderly is the most significant prediction 
factor of survivorship one and ten years postoperatively. Ambulation status 
before injury is a significant long-term predictor factor for survivorship.

Copyright © 2015 The Japanese Orthopaedic Association. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jos.2015.09.009
PMID: 26755386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther. 2016 Feb;46(2):44-55. doi:
10.2519/jospt.2016.5979.  Epub 2016 Jan 11.

A Comparison of the Effects of Stabilization Exercises Plus Manual Therapy to 
Those of Stabilization Exercises Alone in Patients With Nonspecific Mechanical 
Neck Pain: A Randomized Clinical Trial.

Celenay ST, Akbayrak T, Kaya DO.

STUDY DESIGN: Randomized clinical trial.
BACKGROUND: Little is known about the efficacy of providing manual therapy in 
addition to cervical and scapulothoracic stabilization exercises in people with 
mechanical neck pain (MNP). Objectives To compare the effects of stabilization 
exercises plus manual therapy to those of stabilization exercises alone on 
disability, pain, range of motion (ROM), and quality of life in patients with 
MNP.
METHODS: One hundred two patients with MNP (18-65 years of age) were recruited 
and randomly allocated into 2 groups: stabilization exercise without (n = 51) 
and with (n = 51) manual therapy. The program was carried out 3 days per week 
for 4 weeks. The Neck Disability Index, visual analog pain scale, digital 
algometry of pressure pain threshold, goniometric measurements, and Medical 
Outcomes Study 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey were used to assess participants 
at baseline and after 4 weeks.
RESULTS: Improvements in Neck Disability Index score, night pain, rotation ROM, 
and the Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey score were 
greater in the group that received stabilization exercise with manual therapy 
compared to the group that only received stabilization exercise. Between-group 
differences (95% confidence interval) were 2.2 (0.1, 4.3) points for the Neck 
Disability Index, 1.1 (0.0, 2.3) cm for pain at night measured on the visual 
analog scale, -4.3° (-8.1°, -0.5°) and -5.0° (-8.2°, -1.7°) for right and left 
rotation ROM, respectively, and -2.9 (-5.4, -0.4) points and -3.1 (-6.2, 0.0) 
points for the Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey physical 
and mental components, respectively. Changes in resting and activity pain, 
pressure pain threshold, and cervical extension or lateral flexion ROM did not 
differ significantly between the groups. Pressure pain threshold increased only 
in those who received stabilization exercise with manual therapy (P<.05).
CONCLUSION: The results of this study suggest that stabilization exercises with 
manual therapy may be superior to stabilization exercises alone for improving 
disability, pain intensity at night, cervical rotation motion, and quality of 
life in patients with MNP.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapy, level 1b.

DOI: 10.2519/jospt.2016.5979
PMID: 26755405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Glob J Health Sci. 2015 Oct 21;8(6):95-108. doi: 10.5539/gjhs.v8n6p95.

Association Between Characteristics of Hospitalized Heart Failure Patients With 
Their Needs.

Polikandrioti M(1), Goudevenos J, Michalis LK, Koutelekos IG, Georgiadi E, 
Karakostas C, Elisaf M.

Author information:
(1)Nursing Department, Technological Institute of Athens, Athens, Greece. 
mpolik2006@yahoo.com.

INTRODUCTION: During recent years that life expectancy of heart failure patients 
has been increased, health professionals put more emphasis on assessing their 
needs in daily clinical practice. The aim of the present study was to explore 
the association between characteristics of hospitalized heart failure patients 
with their needs.
METHODS: A sample of 190 hospitalized patients with HF, recruited from public 
hospitals in Greece, was enrolled in the study. Data were collected by the 
completion of a questionnaire which included socio-demographic and clinical 
characteristics and the questionnaire "Needs of hospitalized patients with 
coronary artery disease" which is consisted of 6 subscales. Statistical methods 
used were Kruskal wallis-test or Mann-Whitney test and Spearmans' rho 
coefficient. Multiple regression analysis was performed in order to evaluate the 
association between patients' characteristics and the significance of their 
needs.
RESULTS: 124 (65.3%) of hospitalized heart failure participants were men and 89 
(46.8%) of participants were more than 70 years old. 145 (76.3%) had prior 
experience of hospitalization due to heart failure. The need for support and 
guidance was statistically significantly associated with the degree of 
information, (p=<0.001). The need for information from the medical and nursing 
staff was significantly associated with marital status and degree of information 
(p=0.001 and p<0.001 respectively). The need for need for being in contact with 
other patient groups, and ensuring communication with relatives was 
statistically significantly associated with the professional status and degree 
of information, (p=0.037 and p=<0.001 respectively). The need for individualized 
treatment and the need for patient's personal participation to his/her treatment 
as well as the need to meet the emotional and physical needs were statistically 
significant associated with the degree of information, (p=<0.001, p=<0.001 
respectively). Lastly, the need to trust the medical and nursing staff was 
statistically significantly associated with the place of residence and the 
degree of information, (p=0.023 and p<0.001). These results were confirmed by 
the multiple linear regression after controlling for potential confounders.
CONCLUSIONS: Information seems to be of vital importance when assessing the 
needs of heart failure patients. Therefore, providing elaborate information 
should be an integral part of their therapeutic regimen.

DOI: 10.5539/gjhs.v8n6p95
PMCID: PMC4954897
PMID: 26755471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors declare that 
there is no conflict of interests regarding the publication of this paper.


950. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 2016 Mar;46(3):284-6. doi: 10.1093/jjco/hyv191. Epub 2016
Jan  10.

Quantification of the increase in thyroid cancer prevalence in Fukushima after 
the nuclear disaster in 2011--a potential overdiagnosis?

Katanoda K(1), Kamo K(2), Tsugane S(3).

Author information:
(1)Surveillance Division, Center for Cancer Control and Information Services, 
National Cancer Center, Tokyo kkatanod@ncc.go.jp.
(2)Center for Medical Education, Sapporo Medical University, Sapporo.
(3)Research Center for Cancer Prevention and Screening, National Cancer Center, 
Tokyo, Japan.

A thyroid ultrasound examination programme has been conducted in Fukushima 
Prefecture, Japan, after the nuclear disaster in 2011. Although remarkably high 
prevalence of thyroid cancer was observed, no relevant quantitative evaluation 
was conducted. We calculated the observed/expected (O/E) ratio of thyroid cancer 
prevalence for the residents aged ≤20 years. Observed prevalence was the number 
of thyroid cancer cases detected by the programme through the end of April 2015. 
Expected prevalence was calculated as cumulative incidence by a life-table 
method using the national estimates of thyroid cancer incidence rate in 2001-10 
(prior to the disaster) and the population of Fukushima Prefecture. The 
underlying assumption was that there was neither nuclear accident nor screening 
intervention. The observed and estimated prevalence of thyroid cancer among 
residents aged ≤20 years was 160.1 and 5.2, respectively, giving an O/E ratio of 
30.8 [95% confidence interval (CI): 26.2, 35.9]. When the recent increasing 
trend in thyroid cancer was considered, the overall O/E ratio was 22.2 (95% CI: 
18.9, 25.9). The cumulative number of thyroid cancer deaths in Fukushima 
Prefecture, estimated with the same method (annual average in 2009-13), was 0.6 
under age 40. Combined with the existing knowledge about radiation effect on 
thyroid cancer, our descriptive analysis suggests the possibility of 
overdiagnosis. Evaluation including individual-level analysis is required to 
further clarify the contribution of underlying factors.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/hyv191
PMCID: PMC4777612
PMID: 26755830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. J Long Term Eff Med Implants. 2015;25(3):225-35. doi: 
10.1615/jlongtermeffmedimplants.2015012728.

Cost Effectiveness and Economic Impact of the KineSpring Knee Implant System in 
the Treatment of Knee Osteoarthritis in Spain.

Strain D(1), Li CS(2), Phillips M(1), Monteagudo Piqueras O(3), Bhandari M(4).

Author information:
(1)Global Research Solutions, Inc., Burlington, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Global Research Solutions, Inc., Burlington, Ontario, Canada; Department of 
Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, 
Canada.
(3)Department of Quality Research, Murcia Health Council, Murcia, Spain.
(4)CLARITY Research Group, McMaster University, Department of Orthopedic Surgery 
Musculoskeletal Research Unit, Canada and Division of Orthopaedic Surgery and 
Department of Clinical Epidemiology & Biostatistics, Hamilton General Hospital, 
Canada.

We investigated the efficacy and cost effectiveness of the KineSpring System in 
the Spanish healthcare system, as compared to other standard treatments methods. 
Cost-utility ratios were calculated using derived cost data and we calculated 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained for each method of treatment. 
Cost-utility ratios were calculated assuming lifetime and 10-year durability. 
Assuming lifetime durability, cost-utility ratios of total knee arthroplasty 
(TKA), unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (UKA), high tibial osteotomy (HTO), 
KineSpring System, and conservative treatments, compared to no treatment, are 
€2348 ± 70/QALYs, €2040 ± 61/QALYs, €2281 ± 68/ QALY, €1669 ± 268/QALYs, and 
€11,688 ± 2185/QALYs, respectively. Assuming a treatment durability of 10 years, 
the cost-utility ratio of TKA, UKA, HTO, KineSpring System, and conservative 
treatments, compared to no treatment, are €4884 ± 323/QALYs, €4243 ± 280/QALYs, 
€4744 ± 313/QALYs, €3757 ± 1353/QALYs, and €10,575 ± 4414/QALYs, respectively. 
In comparison to current standard-of-care treatments, the KineSpring System has 
a favorable cost-utility ratio, making it an effective treatment option and a 
suitable cost-saving alternative. The KineSpring System is associated with lower 
cost and increased QALYs.

DOI: 10.1615/jlongtermeffmedimplants.2015012728
PMID: 26756561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Med Anthropol Q. 2017 Mar;31(1):78-96. doi: 10.1111/maq.12276. Epub 2016 Jun
30.

Caring for Strangers: Aging, Traditional Medicine, and Collective Self-care in 
Post-socialist Russia.

Chudakova T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Tufts University.

This article explores how aging patients in Russia assemble strategies of care 
in the face of commercialization of medical services and public health 
discourses and initiatives aimed at improving the population's lifestyle habits. 
By focusing on how the formation of pensioner publics intersects with the 
health-seeking trajectories of elderly patients, it tracks an emerging ethic of 
collective self-care-a form of therapeutic collectivity that challenges 
articulations of good health as primarily an extension of personal 
responsibility or solely as a corollary of access to medical resources. By 
drawing on traditional medicine, these pensioners rely on and advocate for 
stranger intimacies that offer tactics for survival in the present through the 
care of (and for) a shared and embodied post-socialist condition of social, 
economic, and bodily precarity.

© 2016 by the American Anthropological Association.

DOI: 10.1111/maq.12276
PMID: 26756584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Acta Trop. 2017 Jan;165:141-154. doi: 10.1016/j.actatropica.2015.12.021.
Epub  2016 Jan 3.

The societal cost of Taenia solium cysticercosis in Tanzania.

Trevisan C(1), Devleesschauwer B(2), Schmidt V(3), Winkler AS(3), Harrison W(4), 
Johansen MV(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Disease Biology, Faculty of Health and Medical 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Frederiksberg C, Denmark. Electronic 
address: chiara@sund.ku.dk.
(2)Department of Virology, Parasitology and Immunology, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, Ghent University, Merelbeke, Belgium.
(3)Department of Neurology, Technische Universität München, Munich, Germany.
(4)Faculty of Medicine, School of Public Health, Imperial College London, 
London, United Kingdom.
(5)Department of Veterinary Disease Biology, Faculty of Health and Medical 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Frederiksberg C, Denmark.

Taenia solium is a zoonotic parasite prevalent in many low income countries 
throughout Latin America, Asia and sub-Saharan Africa, including Tanzania. The 
parasite is recognized as a public health threat; however the burden it poses on 
populations of Tanzania is unknown. The aim of this study was to estimate the 
societal cost of T. solium cysticercosis in Tanzania, by assessing both the 
health and economic burden. The societal cost of T. solium cysticercosis was 
assessed in humans and pigs based on data obtained by a systematic review. 
Experts' opinion was sought in cases where data were not retrievable. The health 
burden was assessed in terms of annual number of neurocysticercosis (NCC) 
associated epilepsy incident cases, deaths and disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs), while the economic burden was assessed in terms of direct and indirect 
costs imposed by NCC-associated epilepsy and potential losses due to porcine 
cysticercosis. Based on data retrieved from the systematic review and burden 
assessments, T. solium cysticercosis contributed to a significant societal cost 
for the population. The annual number of NCC-associated epilepsy incident cases 
and deaths were 17,853 (95% Uncertainty Interval (UI), 5666-36,227) and 212 (95% 
UI, 37-612), respectively. More than 11% (95% UI, 6.3-17) of the pig population 
was infected with the parasite when using tongue examination as diagnostic 
method. For the year 2012 the number of DALYs per thousand person-years for 
NCC-associated epilepsy was 0.7 (95% UI, 0.2-1.6). Around 5 million USD (95% UI, 
797,535-16,933,477) were spent due to NCC-associated epilepsy and nearly 3 
million USD (95% UI, 1,095,960-5,366,038) were potentially lost due to porcine 
cysticercosis. Our results show that T. solium imposes a serious public health, 
agricultural and economic threat for Tanzania. We urge that a One Health 
approach, which involves the joint collaboration and effort of veterinarians, 
medical doctors, agricultural extension officers, researchers and relevant 
governmental agencies, is taken to find sustainable solutions for prevention, 
control and elimination of T. solium.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actatropica.2015.12.021
PMID: 26756713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Ann Surg. 2016 Aug;264(2):268-74. doi: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000001569.

Clinical Decision Analysis and Markov Modeling for Surgeons: An Introductory 
Overview.

Hogendoorn W(1), Moll FL, Sumpio BE, Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)*Section of Vascular Surgery, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
CT†Section of Vascular Surgery, University Medical Center, Utrecht, the 
Netherlands‡Department of Surgery, Maasstad Hospital Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands§Department of Radiology, the Netherlands¶Epidemiology, Erasmus 
Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands||Department of Health Policy & 
Management, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA.

This study addresses the use of decision analysis and Markov models to make 
contemplated decisions for surgical problems. Decision analysis and decision 
modeling in surgical research are increasing, but many surgeons are unfamiliar 
with the techniques and are skeptical of the results. The goal of this review is 
to familiarize surgeons with techniques and terminology used in decision 
analytic papers, to provide the reader a practical guide to read these papers, 
and to ensure that surgeons can critically appraise the quality of published 
clinical decision models and draw well founded conclusions from such 
reports.First, a brief explanation of decision analysis and Markov models is 
presented in simple steps, followed by an overview of the components of a 
decision and Markov model. Subsequently, commonly used terms and definitions are 
described and explained, including quality-adjusted life-years, 
disability-adjusted life-years, discounting, half-cycle correction, cycle 
length, probabilistic sensitivity analysis, incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio, and the willingness-to-pay threshold.Finally, the advantages and 
limitations of research with Markov models are described, and new modeling 
techniques and future perspectives are discussed. It is important that surgeons 
are able to understand conclusions from decision analytic studies and are 
familiar with the specific definitions of the terminology used in the field to 
keep up with surgical research. Decision analysis can guide treatment strategies 
when complex clinical questions need to be answered and is a necessary and 
useful addition to the surgical research armamentarium.

DOI: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000001569
PMID: 26756750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. J Med Econ. 2016 Jun;19(6):549-56. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2016.1141098. Epub
2016  Feb 1.

Evaluation of a patient self-directed mealtime insulin titration algorithm: a US 
payer perspective.

Curtis BH(1), Curtis S(1), Murphy DR(2), Gahn JC(2), Perk S(2), Smolen HJ(2), 
Murray J(1), Numapau N(1), Bonner JS(1), Liu R(1), Johnson J(1), Glass LC(1).

Author information:
(1)a Eli Lilly and Company , Indianapolis , IN , USA ;
(2)b Medical Decision Modeling Inc. , Indianapolis , IN , USA.

Objective To model the potential economic impact of implementing the AUTONOMY 
once daily (Q1D) patient self-titration mealtime insulin dosing algorithm vs 
standard of care (SOC) among a population of patients with Type 2 diabetes 
living in the US. Methods Three validated models were used in this analysis: The 
Treatment Transitions Model (TTM) was used to generate the primary results, 
while both the Archimedes (AM) and IMS Core Diabetes Models (IMS) were used to 
test the veracity of the primary results produced by TTM. Models used data from 
a 'real world' representative sample of patients (2012 US National Health and 
Nutrition Examination Survey) that matched the characteristics of US patients 
enrolled in the randomized controlled trial 'AUTONOMY' cohort. The base-case 
time horizon was 10 years. Results The modeling results from TTM demonstrated 
that total costs in the base-case were reduced by $1732, with savings predicted 
to occur as early as year 1. Results from the three models were consistent, 
showing a reduction in total costs for all sensitivity analyses. Limitations 
Data from short-term clinical trials were used to develop long-term projections. 
The nature of such extrapolation leads to increased uncertainty. Conclusion The 
results from all three models indicate that the AUTONOMY Q1D algorithm has the 
potential to abate total costs as early as the first year.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2016.1141098
PMID: 26756804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Health Econ. 2017 Mar;26(3):387-394. doi: 10.1002/hec.3313. Epub 2016 Jan
12.

Response-Scale Heterogeneity in the EQ-5D.

Knott RJ(1), Black N(1), Hollingsworth B(2), Lorgelly PK(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Monash Business School, Monash University, 
Melbourne, Australia.
(2)Division of Health Research, Lancaster University, Lancaster, UK.

Comment in
    Health Econ. 2017 Mar;26(3):398-400.
    Health Econ. 2017 Mar;26(3):395-397.

This paper discusses two types of response-scale heterogeneity, which may impact 
upon the EQ-5D. Response-scale heterogeneity in reporting occurs when 
individuals systematically differ in their use of response scales when 
responding to self-assessments. This type of heterogeneity is widely observed in 
relation to other self-assessed measures but is often overlooked with regard to 
the EQ-5D. Analogous to this, preference elicitation involving the EQ-5D could 
be subject to a similar type of heterogeneity, where variations across 
respondents may occur in the interpretations of the levels (response categories) 
being valued. This response-scale heterogeneity in preference elicitation may 
differ from variations in preferences for health states, which have been 
observed in the literature. This paper explores what these forms of 
response-scale heterogeneity may mean for the EQ-5D and the potential 
implications for researchers who rely on the instrument as a measure of health 
and quality of life. We identify situations where they are likely to be 
problematic and present potential avenues for overcoming these issues. Copyright 
© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.3313
PMID: 26756822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Semin Dial. 2016 Mar-Apr;29(2):148-57. doi: 10.1111/sdi.12465. Epub 2016 Jan
12.

A Patient-Centered Approach to Hemodialysis Vascular Access in the Era of 
Fistula First.

Kalloo S(1), Blake PG(2), Wish J(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Columbia University Medical 
Center, New York.
(2)Division of Nephrology, Western University and London Health Sciences Centre, 
London, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Indiana University Health, 
Indianapolis, Indiana.

The primary vascular access options for the hemodialysis population are 
arteriovenous fistulas (AVF), arteriovenous grafts, and cuffed central venous 
catheters (CVC). AVFs are associated with the most favorable outcomes with 
respect to complications, interventions required to maintain functionality and 
patency, and overall cost. These population-based outcomes, in conjunction with 
the efforts of the Fistula First Breakthrough Initiative, have propelled the 
prevalence of AVFs in the US hemodialysis population. While this endeavor 
remains steadfast in assuring the continued dominance of this policy for AVF 
preference, it fails to take into account a subset of the dialysis population 
who will fail to see the benefits of an AVF. This subset of patients may include 
the elderly, those with poor vasculature anatomy, those with slowly progressive 
CKD who are more likely to die than progress to ESRD, and those with an overall 
poor long-term prognosis and shortened life expectancy. Thus, in an effort to 
avoid numerous unnecessary surgical and interventional procedures with minimal 
to no gains in clinical outcomes, an individualized patient approach must be 
adopted. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services-instituted quality 
incentive program is designed to reward high AVF prevalence while also 
penalizing high CVC prevalence. The current model is devoid of case-based 
adjustment, thus penalties are disbursed to dialysis providers in accordance 
with a "one-size-fits-all" fistula only approach. The most suitable access for a 
patient remains the one that takes into account the characteristics unique to 
the individual patient with a primary focus on patient comfort, satisfaction, 
quality of life, and clinical outcomes.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/sdi.12465
PMID: 26756825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Semin Dial. 2016 Mar-Apr;29(2):93-102. doi: 10.1111/sdi.12467. Epub 2016 Jan
12.

How Can We Improve the Quality of Life of Dialysis Patients?

Mitema D(1), Jaar BG(2)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.
(2)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, Maryland.
(4)Welch Center for Prevention, Epidemiology and Clinical Research, Johns 
Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland.
(5)Nephrology Center of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland.

As medical advances are made in the care of persons with chronic illnesses 
including those with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), patients are not only 
experiencing increasing life expectancy but also bearing the burden of illness 
and treatment for a longer duration of time. With this in mind, it is 
increasingly important for health care providers to pay close attention to their 
individual patient's perceptions of their health, fitness, life satisfaction, 
and well-being. This assessment of Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) also 
includes an evaluation of the patient's level of satisfaction with treatment, 
outcome, and health status, also taking into account their perspective on future 
prospects. In addition to improving patient-provider communication by helping in 
the identification and prioritization of problems, it is important to note that 
high HRQOL has been shown to be associated with better medical outcomes, 
including reduction in hospitalizations and death. In this review, we outline 
several validated tools that are used to quantitatively measure HRQOL in the 
ESRD population and incorporate these instruments in a review of specific, 
evidence-based measures by which we can measurably improve health-related 
quality of life in dialysis patients.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/sdi.12467
PMID: 26757059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Int J Prosthodont. 2016 Jan-Feb;29(1):20-7. doi: 10.11607/ijp.4304.

Search Strategy to Identify Dental Survival Analysis Articles Indexed in 
MEDLINE.

Layton DM, Clarke M.

PURPOSE: Articles reporting survival outcomes (time-to-event outcomes) in 
patients over time are challenging to identify in the literature. Research shows 
the words authors use to describe their dental survival analyses vary, and that 
allocation of medical subject headings by MEDLINE indexers is inconsistent. 
Together, this undermines accurate article identification. The present study 
aims to develop and validate a search strategy to identify dental survival 
analyses indexed in MEDLINE (Ovid).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A gold standard cohort of articles was identified to 
derive the search terms, and an independent gold standard cohort of articles was 
identified to test and validate the proposed search strategies. The first cohort 
included all 6,955 articles published in the 50 dental journals with the highest 
impact factors in 2008, of which 95 articles were dental survival articles. The 
second cohort included all 6,514 articles published in the 50 dental journals 
with the highest impact factors for 2012, of which 148 were dental survival 
articles. Each cohort was identified by a systematic hand search. Performance 
parameters of sensitivity, precision, and number needed to read (NNR) for the 
search strategies were calculated.
RESULTS: Sensitive, precise, and optimized search strategies were developed and 
validated. The performances of the search strategy maximizing sensitivity were 
92% sensitivity, 14% precision, and 7.11 NNR; the performances of the strategy 
maximizing precision were 93% precision, 10% sensitivity, and 1.07 NNR; and the 
performances of the strategy optimizing the balance between sensitivity and 
precision were 83% sensitivity, 24% precision, and 4.13 NNR. The methods used to 
identify search terms were objective, not subjective. The search strategies were 
validated in an independent group of articles that included different journals 
and different publication years.
CONCLUSIONS: Across the three search strategies, dental survival articles can be 
identified with sensitivity up to 92%, precision up to 93%, and NNR of less than 
two articles to identify relevant records. This research has highlighted the 
impact that variation in reporting and indexing has on article identification 
and has improved researchers' ability to identify dental survival articles.

DOI: 10.11607/ijp.4304
PMID: 26757323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. JAMA. 2016 Jan 12;315(2):175-84. doi: 10.1001/jama.2015.17821.

Lung Volume Reduction Coil Treatment vs Usual Care in Patients With Severe 
Emphysema: The REVOLENS Randomized Clinical Trial.

Deslée G(1), Mal H(2), Dutau H(3), Bourdin A(4), Vergnon JM(5), Pison C(6), 
Kessler R(7), Jounieaux V(8), Thiberville L(9), Leroy S(10), Marceau A(2), 
Laroumagne S(3), Mallet JP(4), Dukic S(11), Barbe C(12), Bulsei J(13), Jolly 
D(12), Durand-Zaleski I(13), Marquette CH(10); REVOLENS Study Group.

Collaborators: Vallerand H, Dury S, Perotin JM, Lebargy F, Pradelli J, Buscot M, 
Wolter P, Poudenx M, Dombret MC, Servin F, Debray MP, Chenivesse C, Palot A, 
Gomez C, Astoul P, Lesavre N, Gamez AS, Torodo P, Brousse C, Broissin C, Thibout 
Y, Di Palma F, Costes F, Briault A, Arbib F, Porzio M, Renaud-Picard B, Toublanc 
B, François G, Cuvelier A, Lachkar S, Verdier M, Maizieres M, Gras D, Benoit P, 
Leclainche A, Fourrier F, Hachulla E, Roche N, Dusser D.

Author information:
(1)Service de Pneumologie, INSERM U903, Hôpital Universitaire de Reims, Reims, 
France.
(2)Service de Pneumologie, Hôpital Universitaire Bichat, Paris, France.
(3)Service d'Oncologie Thoracique, Maladies de la Plèvre, Pneumologie 
Interventionnelle, Hôpital Universitaire de Marseille, Marseille, France.
(4)Département de Pneumologie et Addictologie, PhyMedExp, Inserm U1046, CNRS 
UMR, Hôpital Universitaire de Montpellier, Montpellier, France.
(5)Service de Pneumologie, Hôpital Universitaire de Saint-Étienne, 
Saint-Étienne, France.
(6)Clinique Universitaire de Pneumologie, Pôle Thorax et Vaisseaux, Inserm 1055, 
Hôpital Universitaire de Grenoble Alpes, Grenoble, France.
(7)Service de Pneumologie, Hôpital Universitaire de Strasbourg, Strasbourg, 
France.
(8)Service de Pneumologie, Hôpital Universitaire d'Amiens, Amiens, France.
(9)Service de Pneumologie, Hôpital Universitaire de Rouen, Rouen, France.
(10)Service de Pneumologie, IRCAN, UMR CNRS 7284/Inserm U1081, Team 3, Hôpital 
Universitaire de Nice Sophia Antipolis, Nice, France.
(11)Département de Pharmacovigilance, Hôpital Universitaire de Reims, Reims, 
France.
(12)Département de Méthodologie, Pôle Recherche-Innovations, Hôpital 
Universitaire de Reims, Reims, France.
(13)URC Eco IdF, Unité de Recherche Clinique en Économie de la Santé d'Ile de 
France, AP-HP Paris, Paris, France.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2016 Jan 12;315(2):139-41.
    BMJ. 2016;352:i133.
    JAMA. 2016 Jun 21;315(23):2621.
    JAMA. 2016 Jun 21;315(23):2621-2.

IMPORTANCE: Therapeutic options for severe emphysema are limited. Lung volume 
reduction using nitinol coils is a bronchoscopic intervention inducing regional 
parenchymal volume reduction and restoring lung recoil.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy, safety, cost, and cost-effectiveness of 
nitinol coils in treatment of severe emphysema.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Multicenter 1:1 randomized superiority trial 
comparing coils with usual care at 10 university hospitals in France. Enrollment 
of patients with emphysema occurred from March to October 2013, with 12-month 
follow-up (last follow-up, December 2014).
INTERVENTIONS: Patients randomized to usual care (n = 50) received 
rehabilitation and bronchodilators with or without inhaled corticosteroids and 
oxygen; those randomized to bilateral coil treatment (n = 50) received usual 
care plus additional therapy in which approximately 10 coils per lobe were 
placed in 2 bilateral lobes in 2 procedures.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary outcome was improvement of at least 54 m 
in the 6-minute walk test at 6 months (1-sided hypothesis test). Secondary 
outcomes included changes at 6 and 12 months in the 6-minute walk test, lung 
function, quality of life as assessed by St George's Respiratory Questionnaire 
(range, 0-100; 0 being the best and 100 being the worst quality of life; minimal 
clinically important difference, ≥4), morbidity, mortality, total cost, and 
cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Among 100 patients, 71 men and 29 women (mean age, 62 years) were 
included. At 6 months, improvement of at least 54 m was observed in 18 patients 
(36%) in the coil group and 9 patients (18%) in the usual care group, for a 
between-group difference of 18% (1-sided 95% CI, 4% to ∞; P = .03). Mean 
between-group differences at 6 and 12 months in the coil and usual care groups 
were +0.09 L (95% CI, 0.05 L to ∞) (P = .001) and +0.08 L (95% CI, 0.03 L to ∞) 
(P = .002) for forced expiratory volume in the first second, +21 m (95% CI, -4 m 
to ∞) (P = .06) and +21 m (95% CI, -5 m to ∞) (P = .12) for 6-minute walk 
distance, and -13.4 points (95% CI, -8 points to ∞) and -10.6 points (95% CI, 
-5.8 points to ∞) for St George's Respiratory Questionnaire (1-sided P < .001 
for both). Within 12 months, 4 deaths occurred in the coil group and 3 in the 
usual care group. The mean total 1-year per-patient cost difference between 
groups was $47,908 (95% CI, $47,879-$48,073) (P < .001); the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was $782,598 per additional quality-adjusted life-year.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this preliminary study of patients with severe 
emphysema followed up for 6 months, bronchoscopic treatment with nitinol coils 
compared with usual care resulted in improved exercise capacity with high 
short-term costs. Further investigation is needed to assess durability of 
benefit and long-term cost implications.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01822795.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2015.17821
PMID: 26757466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem. 2016;80(4):791-7. doi:
10.1080/09168451.2015.1123612.  Epub 2016 Jan 13.

Geranylgeraniol enhances testosterone production via the cAMP/protein kinase A 
pathway in testis-derived I-10 tumor cells.

Ho HJ(1), Shirakawa H(1), Yoshida R(1), Ito A(1), Maeda M(1), Goto T(1), Komai 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)a Laboratory of Nutrition , Graduate School of Agricultural Science, Tohoku 
University , Sendai , Japan.

Testosterone levels in men decrease with age; this decline has been linked to 
various diseases and can shorten life expectancy. Geranylgeraniol (GGOH) is an 
isoprenoid found in plants that plays an important role in several biological 
processes; however, its role in steroidogenesis is unknown. Here, we report that 
GGOH enhances the production of testosterone and its precursor progesterone in 
testis-derived I-10 tumor cells. GGOH induced protein kinase A (PKA) activity 
and increased cAMP levels and was found to regulate cAMP/PKA signaling by 
activating adenylate cyclase without altering phosphodiesterase activity. GGOH 
also stimulated mRNA and protein levels of steroidogenic acute regulatory 
protein, a downstream effector in the cAMP/PKA pathway. These results 
demonstrate that GGOH enhances steroidogenesis in testis-derived cells by 
modulating cAMP/PKA signaling. Our findings have potential applications for the 
development of therapeutics that increase testosterone levels in aging men.

DOI: 10.1080/09168451.2015.1123612
PMID: 26757775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2015 Sep;38(3):177-85.

Social determinants and inequalities in tuberculosis incidence in Latin America 
and the Caribbean.

Munayco CV(1), Mújica OJ(2), León FX(3), del Granado M(3), Espinal MA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Biometrics, Uniformed Services, 
University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, Maryland, United States of America, 
cesar.munayco@usuhs.edu.
(2)Social Epidemiology, Special Program on Sustainable Development and Health 
Equity, Pan American Health Organization, World Health Organization, Washington 
DC, United States of America.
(3)HIV, Hepatitis, Tuberculosis, and Sexually-transmitted Infections Unit, 
Communicable Diseases and Health Analysis Department, PAHO, WHO, Washington DC, 
United States of America.
(4)Communicable Diseases and Health Analysis Department, PAHO, WHO, Washington, 
DC, United States of America.

OBJECTIVE: To identify key social determinants of tuberculosis (TB) incidence 
among countries in Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC), a geographic area 
regarded as one of the most socioeconomically unequal in the world
METHODS: An ecological study was conducted at the country level. Data were 
obtained from several institutional-based sources. Random-effects regression 
modeling was used to explore the relationship between several social 
determinants indicators and TB incidence rates in 20 LAC countries in 1995-2012. 
Standard gap and gradient metrics of social inequality in TB incidence among 
countries in 2000, 2005, and 2010 were then calculated.
RESULTS: TB incidence rate trends were significantly associated with health 
expenditure per capita and access to improved sanitation facilities, as well as 
with life expectancy at birth and TB detection rate, after adjusting for other 
socioeconomic, demographic, and health services variables. Absolute and relative 
inequality in TB incidence remained mostly unchanged: countries at the bottom 
20% of both health expenditure and sanitation coverage distributions 
concentrated up to 40% of all TB incident cases, despite a considerable decline 
in the overall TB incidence mean rate during the period assessed.
CONCLUSIONS: Along with the intensity of TB control (reflected by TB detection 
rate), both access to sanitation (as a proxy of quality of living conditions) 
and health expenditure per capita (either as an indicator of the level of 
resources and/or commitment to health care) appear to be key determinants of TB 
incidence trends in LAC countries. Inequalities in both health expenditure per 
capita and access to sanitation seem to define profound and persistent inverse 
gradients in TB incidence among LAC countries.

PMID: 26757995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. BMJ Open. 2016 Jan 12;6(1):e009949. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2015-009949.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of arthroscopic surgery compared with non-operative 
management for osteoarthritis of the knee.

Marsh JD(1), Birmingham TB(2), Giffin JR(3), Isaranuwatchai W(4), Hoch JS(5), 
Feagan BG(6), Litchfield R(3), Willits K(3), Fowler P(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences; Bone and Joint Institute; Western University, 
London, Ontario, Canada.
(2)School of Physical Therapy, Faculty of Health Sciences; Fowler Kennedy Sport 
Medicine Clinic; Bone and Joint Institute; Western University, London, Ontario, 
Canada.
(3)Department of Surgery, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry; Fowler 
Kennedy Sport Medicine Clinic; Bone and Joint Institute; Western University, 
London, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Centre for Excellence in Economic Analysis Research (CLEAR), St. Michael's 
Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Institute of Health Policy, Management and 
Evaluation, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of California, Davis (UCD); 
Center for Healthcare Policy and Research, UCD; Centre for Excellence in 
Economic Analysis Research (CLEAR), St. Michael's Hospital; Institute of Health 
Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario 
Canada.
(6)Departments of Medicine, and Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Schulich School 
of Medicine and Dentistry; Robarts Clinical Trials, Robarts Research Institute; 
Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of arthroscopic surgery in 
addition to non-operative treatments compared with non-operative treatments 
alone in patients with knee osteoarthritis (OA).
DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: We conducted an economic evaluation alongside 
a single-centre, randomised trial among patients with symptomatic, radiographic 
knee OA (KL grade ≥ 2).
INTERVENTIONS: Patients received arthroscopic debridement and partial resection 
of degenerative knee tissues in addition to optimised non-operative therapy, or 
optimised non-operative therapy only.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Direct and indirect costs were collected prospectively 
over the 2-year study period. The effectiveness outcomes were the Western 
Ontario McMaster Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs). Cost-effectiveness was estimated using the net benefit regression 
framework considering a range of willingness-to-pay values from the Canadian 
public payer and societal perspectives. We calculated incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios and conducted sensitivity analyses using the extremes 
of the 95% CIs surrounding mean differences in effect between groups.
RESULTS: 168 patients were included. Patients allocated to arthroscopy received 
partial resection and debridement of degenerative meniscal tears (81%) and/or 
articular cartilage (97%). There were no significant differences between groups 
in use of non-operative treatments. The incremental net benefit was negative for 
all willingness-to-pay values. Uncertainty estimates suggest that even if 
willing to pay $400,000 to achieve a clinically important improvement in WOMAC 
score, or ≥$50,000 for an additional QALY, there is <20% probability that the 
addition of arthroscopy is cost-effective compared with non-operative therapies 
only. Our sensitivity analysis suggests that even when assuming the largest 
treatment effect, the addition of arthroscopic surgery is not economically 
attractive compared with non-operative treatments only.
CONCLUSIONS: Arthroscopic debridement of degenerative articular cartilage and 
resection of degenerative meniscal tears in addition to non-operative treatments 
for knee OA is not an economically attractive treatment option compared with 
non-operative treatment only, regardless of willingness-to-pay value.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT00158431.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2015-009949
PMCID: PMC4716206
PMID: 26758265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Trials. 2016 Jan 12;17:21. doi: 10.1186/s13063-015-1108-0.

Expanded Access Programme: looking for a common definition.

Iudicello A(1), Alberghini L(2), Benini G(3), Mosconi P(4).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Department, Azienda USL of Modena, Policlinico Hospital, 
Modena, Italy. a.iudicello@ausl.mo.it.
(2)Pharmaceutical Department, Azienda USL of Bologna, Maggiore Hospital, Largo 
B. Nigrisoli 2, 40133, Bologna, Italy. l.alberghini@ausl.bologna.it.
(3)Pharmaceutical Department, Azienda USL of Bologna, Maggiore Hospital, Largo 
B. Nigrisoli 2, 40133, Bologna, Italy. g.benini@ausl.bologna.it.
(4)IRCCS Istituto di Ricerche Farmacologiche Mario Negri, Milano, Italy. 
paola.mosconi@marionegri.it.

Therapeutic use of an unauthorised drug (or of an authorised drug for an 
unauthorised indication) for patients with a life-threating disease is permitted 
outside a clinical trial as an Expanded Access Programme (EAP).The regulations 
regarding EAPs is not the same all over the world. For example, the 
recommendation of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) in EU countries also 
includes within EAPs patients who have been treated in a clinical trial and who 
wish to continue the treatment. Nevertheless, the patients treated in a clinical 
trial could have the option of continuing treatment for an extended period in an 
Open-label Extension study, aimed to generate long-term data on efficacy, 
safety, tolerability and administration.The aims of this paper - based on the 
difficulties and incoherence encountered by an Italian Ethic Committee (EC) 
during the authorisation process of EAPs - are: understanding the origin of this 
misclassification by analysing differences and similarities among USA, European 
and Italian regulations concerning EAPs; and showing difficulties in classifying 
international study protocols as a consequence of the lack of harmonisation of 
definitions.We performed a critical review of the current USA, European and 
Italian regulations and we analysed some practical cases by retrieving protocols 
from Clinicaltrials.gov and the Italian Clinical Trials Registry (OsSC) 
containing in the title the keywords 'Expanded Access Programme', "'Expanded 
Access', 'Open-label Extension study' or 'Early Access'.We observed that the 
Food and Drug Administration ( FDA) definition of EAP is very clear while the 
EMA definition is similar to that of an Open-label Extension study. This lack of 
a clear definition generates misclassification and it is possible to find an EAP 
with an efficacy or safety endpoint; or an EAP managed as a clinical trial; or 
an EAP classified in Clinical Trials Registries as a phase II, III or IV 
clinical trial.The internationalisation of the studies requires a harmonisation 
on a global level of legislation and definitions to eliminate misclassification 
of protocols. For this reason, the authors suggest that: a) the EMA definition 
should be harmonised with the FDA definition of EAPs, b) European regulation, 
even if optional, should be adopted in a compulsory way by national regulations. 
Moreover, separate registries for both EAPs and clinical trials should be 
organised.

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-015-1108-0
PMCID: PMC4711042
PMID: 26758369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. BMC Geriatr. 2016 Jan 12;16:9. doi: 10.1186/s12877-016-0184-7.

Years of life lost due to lower extremity injury in association with dementia, 
and care need: a 6-year follow-up population-based study using a multi-state 
approach among German elderly.

Zhou Y(1)(2), Putter H(3), Doblhammer G(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Sociology and Demography, University of Rostock, Ulmenstrasse 
69, 18057, Rostock, Germany.
(2)Rostock Center for the Study of Demographic Change, Konrad-Zuse-Str. 1, 
18057, Rostock, Germany.
(3)Department of Medical Statistics and Bioinformatics, Leiden University 
Medical Centre, Einthovenweg 20, 2333 ZC, Leiden, Netherlands.
(4)Institute for Sociology and Demography, University of Rostock, Ulmenstrasse 
69, 18057, Rostock, Germany. doblhammer@rostockerzentrum.de.
(5)Rostock Center for the Study of Demographic Change, Konrad-Zuse-Str. 1, 
18057, Rostock, Germany. doblhammer@rostockerzentrum.de.
(6)German Center for Neurodegenerative Disease, Ludwig-Erhard-Allee 2, 53175, 
Bonn, Germany. doblhammer@rostockerzentrum.de.

BACKGROUND: Dementia and care need are challenging aging populations worldwide. 
Lower extremity injury (LEI) in the elderly makes matters worse. Using a 
multi-state approach, we express the effect of LEI on dementia, care need, and 
mortality in terms of remaining life expectancy at age 75 (rLE) and years of 
life lost (YLL).
METHODS: A population-based random sample of beneficiaries aged 75-95 years was 
drawn from the largest public health insurer in Germany in 2004 and followed 
until 2010 (N 62,103; Mean Age ± SD 81.5 ± 4.8 years; Female 71.2%). We defined 
a five-state model (Healthy, Dementia, Care, Dementia & Care, Dead), and 
calculated transition-specific hazard ratios of LEI using Cox regression. The 
transition probabilities as well as the YLL due to LEI were estimated.
RESULTS: LEI significantly increased the risk for each transition, with a 
maximum risk for the transition from Healthy to Care (HR: 1.70, 95% CI: 
1.63-1.77) and a minimum risk for the transition from Care to Dead (HR: 1.16, 
95% CI: 1.10-1.22). If the elderly had LEI-history, their age-specific mortality 
was generally higher and their probabilities of transient states peaked at 
younger ages. At age 75, initially dementia-free and care-independent elderly 
experiencing LEI lost about 2 years of life, of which more than 90% were life 
years free of dementia or care need. Dementia patients lost about one and a half 
year, more than 60% were free of long-term care need.
CONCLUSIONS: LEI not only casts a large health burden on care need, but is also 
associated with cognitive decline and shortened rLE. LEI plus dementia extend 
the relative life time in need of care, despite generally shortening rLE. Using 
the composite measure YLL may help to better convey these results to the 
elderly, families, and health professionals. This may strengthen preventive 
measures as well as improve timely and rehabilitative treatment of LEI, not only 
in cognitive and physically intact elderly.

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-016-0184-7
PMCID: PMC4710990
PMID: 26758623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Leuk Lymphoma. 2016 Aug;57(8):1865-75. doi: 10.3109/10428194.2015.1117609.
Epub  2016 Jan 12.

Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in secondary prophylaxis for 
advanced-stage Hodgkin lymphoma treated with ABVD chemotherapy: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Cheung MC(1), Prica A(2), Graczyk J(3), Buckstein R(1), Chan KK(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)a Odette Cancer Centre, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, University of 
Toronto , Toronto , Canada ;
(2)b Princess Margaret Hospital and Mt. Sinai Hospital, University of Toronto , 
Toronto , Canada ;
(3)c Grand River Regional Cancer Centre , Kitchener , Canada ;
(4)d Division of Biostatistics , Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University 
of Toronto , Toronto , Canada.

Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) is commonly administered to 
patients with Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) with neutropenia. We constructed a 
decision-analytic model to compare the cost-effectiveness of secondary 
prophylaxis with G-CSF to a strategy of 'no G-CSF' in response to severe 
neutropenia for adults with advanced-stage HL treated with ABVD. A Canadian 
public health payer's perspective was considered and costs were presented in 
2013 Canadian dollars. The quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) attained with the 
G-CSF and 'no G-CSF' strategies were 1.403 and 1.416, respectively. Costs for 
the strategies with and without G-CSF were $38,971 and $33,982, respectively. In 
the base case analysis, the 'no G-CSF' strategy was associated with cost savings 
and improved QALYs; therefore, 'no G-CSF' was the dominant approach. For 
patients with severe neutropenia during ABVD chemotherapy for advanced-stage HL, 
a strategy without G-CSF support is associated with improved quality-adjusted 
outcomes, cost savings, and is the preferred approach.

DOI: 10.3109/10428194.2015.1117609
PMID: 26758765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Artif Cells Nanomed Biotechnol. 2016 Nov;44(7):1597-608. doi: 
10.3109/21691401.2015.1129617. Epub 2016 Jan 13.

Emergence of liposome as targeted magic bullet for inflammatory disorders: 
current state of the art.

Rahman M(1), Kumar V(1), Beg S(2), Sharma G(3), Katare OP(3), Anwar F(4).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences , Faculty of Health Sciences, Sam 
Higginbottom Institute of Agriculture, Technology & Sciences (SHIATS) , 
Allahabad , India ;
(2)b Department of Pharmaceutics , Faculty of Pharmacy, Jamia Hamdard , New 
Delhi , India ;
(3)c Liposome Research Laboratory, UIPS, Panjab University , Chandigarh , Mumbai 
, India ;
(4)d Department of Biochemistry , Faculty of Science, King Abdulaziz University 
, Jeddah , Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

Inflammatory diseases are considered to be highly dreadful ones responsible for 
higher mortality in the developed countries. This includes cancer, psoriasis, 
rheumatoid arthritis, and inflammatory bowel disease. The tremendous strides in 
the area of drug development to find newer molecules like non-steroidal and 
steroidal agents and immunosuppressant agents delivered by conventional 
formulation. These therapy have enhances the life expectancy of patient, but it 
provide the therapeutic benefits only to a limited extent. Recent advancement in 
liposomes based nanomedicines has led to the possibility of improves the 
efficacy and safety of the pharmacotherapy of inflammatory disorders. Of late, 
liposomes have been highly explored as one of the promising systems for 
delivering numerous anti-inflammatory drugs for attaining enhanced therapeutic 
outcomes. Over the conventional carriers, liposomal systems have numerous drug 
delivery merits including advantages in both passive and active targeting of 
drug molecules to the inflammatory lesions. The current review article, 
therefore, endeavors to provide a bird's eye view account on the success of 
liposome-based therapeutic systems in the management of dreadful inflammatory 
disorders along with updated knowledge to pharmaceutical scientists in the 
field.

DOI: 10.3109/21691401.2015.1129617
PMID: 26758815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2015 Aug 31;63(9):1-117.

Deaths: Final Data for 2012.

Murphy SL, Kochanek KD, Xu J, Heron M.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents final 2012 data on U.S. deaths, death rates, 
life expectancy, infant mortality, and trends by selected characteristics such 
as age, sex, Hispanic origin, race, state of residence, and cause of death.
METHODS: Information reported on death certificates, which is completed by 
funeral directors, attending physicians, medical examiners, and coroners, is 
presented in descriptive tabulations. The original records are filed in state 
registration offices. Statistical information is compiled in a national database 
through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention's National Center for Health Statistics. Causes of death 
are processed in accordance with the International Classification of Diseases, 
Tenth Revision.
RESULTS: In 2012, a total of 2,543,279 deaths were reported in the United 
States. The age-adjusted death rate was 732.8 deaths per 100,000 U.S. standard 
population, a decrease of 1.1% from the 2011 rate and a record low figure. Life 
expectancy at birth rose 0.1 year, from 78.7 years in 2011 to a record high of 
78.8 in 2012. Age-specific death rates decreased in 2012 from 2011 for age 
groups 5-14, 15-24, 45-54, 65-74, 75-84, and 85 and over. Age-specific death 
rates increased only for age group 55-64. The leading causes of death in 2012 
