DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2304-3865.2015.06.08
PMID: 26730755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Soc Sci Med. 2016 Feb;150:40-8. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2015.11.055. Epub
2015  Dec 2.

How you ask is what you get: Framing effects in willingness-to-pay for a QALY.

Ahlert M(1), Breyer F(2), Schwettmann L(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, 
Halle/Saale D-06099, Germany. Electronic address: 
Marlies.Ahlert@wiwi.uni-halle.de.
(2)Department of Economics, University of Konstanz, Fach 135, Konstanz D-78457, 
Germany. Electronic address: Friedrich.Breyer@uni-konstanz.de.
(3)Department of Economics, Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, 
Halle/Saale D-06099, Germany. Electronic address: 
Lars.Schwettmann@wiwi.uni-halle.de.

In decisions on financing new and innovative health care technologies a central 
question is how to determine the value citizens place on the gains in health and 
life expectancy that result from respective medical treatments. We report 
results of surveys of four representative samples of the German population. In 
2010 and 2012, in total about 5000 respondents were asked for their 
willingness-to-pay (WTP) for either an extension of their life or an improvement 
in their health corresponding to a gain of one quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY). Specific changes of the study design allow for ceteris paribus 
comparisons of different survey versions. While the initial version exactly 
copied a questionnaire used in the EuroVaQ (European Value of a QALY) project, 
which was conducted in nine European countries and Palestine, but not in 
Germany, in other versions the wording and the survey technique were modified. 
The findings show that the technique of posing the questions plays an important 
role when respondents are asked to imagine being in hypothetical situations. 
This clearly refers to the wording of the questions and the survey setting 
(personal or online interview). But even simple design elements such as putting 
a yes/no filter in front greatly affect the answers in terms of both the 
frequency of zero WTP and the distribution of positive amounts. From the 
different results, we conclude that it is inevitable to conduct studies 
comprising a broad variety of versions when trying to elicit WTP for a specific 
type of QALY in order to achieve an array of values combined by insights into 
the principles of their sensitivity.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2015.11.055
PMID: 26730880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Occup Med (Lond). 2016 Jun;66(4):276-278. doi: 10.1093/occmed/kqv207. Epub
2016  Jan 5.

Location, vocation, procreation: how choice influences life expectancy in 
doctors.

Holleyman R(1), Vann Jones S(2).

Author information:
(1)Royal Victoria Infirmary, Newcastle upon Tyne, Tyne and Wear NE1 4LP, UK.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Warneford Hospital, Oxford 
OX3 7JX, UK.

Comment in
    Occup Med (Lond). 2017 Jun 1;67(4):319.
    Occup Med (Lond). 2017 Jun 1;67(4):319.

BACKGROUND: Stress and mortality are negatively correlated and it is generally 
accepted that certain professions are more stressful than others. Medical 
graduates begin as a relatively homogenous population who then choose vastly 
different career options making doctors an ideal population in which to try to 
assess whether job stress is likely to be causal to increased mortality.
AIMS: To establish the influence of various modifiable risk factors on the life 
expectancy of UK doctors.
METHODS: We analysed a decade of obituaries from the British Medical Journal 
published between January 2003 and December 2012. Data included age at death 
(AAD), specialty, region (deanery), marriage status and children.
RESULTS: A total of 3068 obituaries were eligible for inclusion. Mean AAD was 
78.5 years. Male sex was associated with a significantly increased AAD by an 
additional 3.8 years (95% CI 2.4-5.2 years, P < 0.001). Public health, 
obstetrics and gynaecology and laboratory medicine specialties were all 
associated with significantly increased AAD (P < 0.05). London and Northern 
Ireland deaneries were both associated with significantly increased AAD (P < 
0.05). Each additional child was associated with a relative increase in AAD of 
+1.1 years (95% CI 0.7-1.4 years, P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that location and career choices may affect life 
expectancy. While this does not necessarily reflect quality of life, the 
additional years of life gained from having extra children have a positive 
effect on your quantity of life.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society 
of Occupational Medicine. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/occmed/kqv207
PMID: 26732180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Bioorg Med Chem. 2016 Feb 15;24(4):545-53. doi: 10.1016/j.bmc.2015.12.009.
Epub  2015 Dec 8.

Active site-directed plasmin inhibitors: Extension on the P2 residue.

Hidaka K(1), Gohda K(2), Teno N(3), Wanaka K(4), Tsuda Y(5).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kobe Gakuin University, Chuo-ku, Kobe 
650-8586, Japan; Cooperative Research Center for Life Science, Kobe Gakuin 
University, Kobe 650-8586, Japan.
(2)Computer-Aided Molecular Modeling Research Center, Kansai, Nishinomiya 
663-8241, Japan.
(3)Faculty of Clinical Nutrition, Hiroshima International University, Kure 
737-0112, Japan.
(4)Research Projects on Thrombosis and Haemostatsis, Kobe 655-0033, Japan.
(5)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kobe Gakuin University, Chuo-ku, Kobe 
650-8586, Japan; Cooperative Research Center for Life Science, Kobe Gakuin 
University, Kobe 650-8586, Japan. Electronic address: 
tsuda@pharm.kobegakuin.ac.jp.

Based on the structure of YO-2 
[N-(trans-4-aminomethylcyclohexanecarbonyl)-l-Tyr(O-picolyl)-NH-octyl], active 
site-directed plasmin (Plm) inhibitors were explored. The picolyl moiety in the 
Tyr(O-picolyl) residue (namely, the P2 residue) was replaced with smaller or 
larger groups, such as hydrogen, tert-butyl, benzyl, (2-naphthyl)methyl, and 
(quinolin-2-yl)methyl. Those efforts produced compound 17 
{N-(trans-4-aminomethylcyclohexanecarbonyl)-l-Tyr[O-(quinolin-2-yl)methyl]-NH-octyl} 
[IC50=0.22 and 77μM for Plm and urokinase (UK), respectively], which showed not 
only 2.4-fold greater Plm inhibition than YO-2, but also an improvement in 
selectivity (Plm/UK) by 35-fold. The docking experiments of the Plm-17 complexes 
disclosed that the amino group of the tranexamyl moiety interacted with the 
side-chain of Asp753 which formed S1 site.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmc.2015.12.009
PMID: 26732532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. BMJ Qual Improv Rep. 2014 Mar 5;3(1):u202922.w1358. doi: 
10.1136/bmjquality.u202922.w1358. eCollection 2014.

Improving the preoperative care of patients with femoral neck fractures through 
the development and implementation of a checklist.

Agha R(1), Edison E(1), Fowler A(1).

Author information:
(1)Addenbrookes Hospital,Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.

The incidence of femoral neck fractures (FNFs) is expected to rise with life 
expectancy. It is important to improve the safety of these patients whilst under 
the care of orthopaedic teams. This study aimed to increase the performance of 
vital preoperative tasks in patients admitted for femoral neck fracture 
operations by producing and implementing a checklist as an aide memoir. The 
checklist was designed primarily for use by senior house officers (SHOs) 
admitting patients from the emergency department. A list of 12 preoperative 
tasks was identified. A baseline audit of 10 random patients showed that the 
mean proportion of the 12 tasks completed was 53% (range 25% - 83%). A survey of 
14 nurses and surgeons found that the majority of respondents agreed that there 
was a problem with the performance of most of the tasks. The tasks were 
incorporated into a checklist which was refined in three plan-do-study-act 
cycles and introduced into the femoral neck fracture pathway. In the week 
following the introduction of the checklist, 77% of the checklist tasks were 
completed, 24% more than at the baseline audit (53%). In week 3, the completion 
of checklist tasks rose to 88% and to 95% in week 4. In conclusion, a simple 
checklist can markedly improve the performance and recording of preoperative 
tasks by SHOs. We recommend the wider adoption of the new checklist to be 
produced as a sticker for patients' medical records. Further study is required 
to ascertain the effect of the checklist on clinical outcomes.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjquality.u202922.w1358
PMCID: PMC4645890
PMID: 26732897


884. Bone Joint J. 2016 Jan;98-B(1):88-96. doi: 10.1302/0301-620X.98B1.35672.

Radiographic and functional outcome of posterolateral lumbosacral fusion for low 
grade isthmic spondylolisthesis in children and adolescents.

Tsirikos AI(1), Sud A(1), McGurk SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Royal Hospital For Sick Children, Sciennes Road, Edinburgh, EH9 1LF, UK.

Comment in
    Bone Joint J. 2016 Jan;98-B(1):3-5.

AIMS: We reviewed 34 consecutive patients (18 female-16 male) with isthmic 
spondylolysis and grade I to II lumbosacral spondylolisthesis who underwent in 
situ posterolateral arthodesis between the L5 transverse processes and the 
sacral ala with the use of iliac crest autograft. Ten patients had an associated 
scoliosis which required surgical correction at a later stage only in two 
patients with idiopathic curves unrelated to the spondylolisthesis.
METHODS: No patient underwent spinal decompression or instrumentation placement. 
Mean surgical time was 1.5 hours (1 to 1.8) and intra-operative blood loss 200 
ml (150 to 340). There was one wound infection treated with antibiotics but no 
other complication. Radiological assessment included standing posteroanterior 
and lateral, Ferguson and lateral flexion/extension views, as well as CT scans.
RESULTS: A solid posterolateral fusion was confirmed in all patients at mean 
latest follow-up of 4.7 years (3.4 to 9.8) beyond skeletal maturity into early 
adult life. Fusion of the isthmic lesion was documented in nine patients 
bilaterally and eight patients unilaterally. The poor fusion rate across the 
spondylolysis has not affected the excellent functional results of the 
procedure, which in our series depended on achieving a stable lumbosacral 
junction.
CONCLUSION: Quality of life assessment demonstrated significant improvement in 
all functional scores and high patient satisfaction with 28 patients returning 
to previous sports activities at an elite competitive level.
TAKE HOME MESSAGE: Posterolateral arthrodesis in situ with autologous iliac 
crest bone without instrumentation has achieved a solid fusion between the L5 
transverse processes and the sacral ala in patients with grade I to II isthmic 
lumbosacral spondylolisthesis and this has produced excellent clinical outcomes 
and high patient satisfaction.

©2016 The British Editorial Society of Bone & Joint Surgery.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.98B1.35672
PMID: 26733520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. BMJ Support Palliat Care. 2017 Jun;7(2):113-121. doi: 
10.1136/bmjspcare-2015-000941. Epub 2016 Jan 5.

Inappropriate prescribing of preventative medication in patients with 
life-limiting illness: a systematic review.

Todd A(1), Husband A(1), Andrew I(2), Pearson SA(3), Lindsey L(1), Holmes H(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmacy, School of Medicine, Pharmacy and Health, Durham 
University, Stockton-on-Tees, UK.
(2)St Benedict's Hospice and Centre for Specialist Palliative Care, Ryhope, 
Sunderland, UK.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy, School of Public Health, The University of Sydney, 
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(4)Division of Geriatric and Palliative Medicine, The University of Texas 
Health, Science Center at Houston, Houston, Texas, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To systematically review the literature to examine the methods used 
to identify inappropriate prescribing of preventative medication in patients 
with life-limiting illness and to detail the nature of medications prescribed.
METHODS: A systematic literature search of 4 databases was undertaken (MEDLINE, 
EMBASE, CINAHL, PsycINFO) from inception to April 2015 to identify 
peer-reviewed, observational studies assessing inappropriate prescribing of 
preventative medication in patients with life-limiting illness. Inclusion 
criteria were: participants had a life-limiting illness; 
prescribed/dispensed/using preventative medication; medication appropriateness 
assessed as a specific study aim or outcome.
RESULTS: We found 19 studies meeting our eligibility criteria. The methods used 
to assess medication appropriateness included criteria developed for the elderly 
such as the Beers Criteria, and Screening Tool of Older Persons' potentially 
inappropriate Prescriptions (STOPP) criteria, Delphi consensus and expert 
clinical opinion. Lipid-regulating drugs (12 studies), antihypertensive (11 
studies) and antidiabetic medications (9 studies) were the most common classes 
of inappropriate medication identified.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with life-limiting illnesses are prescribed preventative 
medications considered inappropriate in the context of diminished life 
expectancy. The way in which preventative medication appropriateness is assessed 
in patients with life-limiting illness varies considerably-with some 
methodologies utilising criteria previously developed for elderly populations. 
Given this lack of standardisation, improving the prescribing in this context 
requires an approach that is specifically designed and validated for populations 
with life-limiting illness.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjspcare-2015-000941
PMID: 26733578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Health Aff (Millwood). 2016 Jan;35(1):88-95. doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.2015.0068.

Homicides In Mexico Reversed Life Expectancy Gains For Men And Slowed Them For 
Women, 2000-10.

Aburto JM(1), Beltrán-Sánchez H(2), García-Guerrero VM(3), Canudas-Romo V(4).

Author information:
(1)José Manuel Aburto is a Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research fellow 
at the European Doctoral School of Demography, Sapienza University, in Rome, 
Italy.
(2)Hiram Beltrán-Sánchez (beltrans@ucla.edu) is an assistant professor in the 
Department of Community Health Sciences and at the California Center for 
Population Research, both at the University of California, Los Angeles.
(3)Victor Manuel García-Guerrero is a professor at the Center of Demographic, 
Urban, and Environmental Studies, El Colegio de México, in Mexico City.
(4)Vladimir Canudas-Romo is an associate professor at the Max-Planck Odense 
Center on Biodemography of Aging, University of Southern Denmark, in Odense.

Life expectancy in Mexico increased for more than six decades but then stagnated 
in the period 2000-10. This decade was characterized by the enactment of a major 
health care reform-the implementation of the Seguro Popular de Salud (Popular 
Health Insurance), which was intended to provide coverage to the entire Mexican 
population-and by an unexpected increase in homicide mortality. We assessed the 
impact on life expectancy of conditions amenable to medical service-those 
sensitive to public health policies and changes in behaviors, homicide, and 
diabetes-by analyzing mortality trends at the state level. We found that life 
expectancy among males deteriorated from 2005 to 2010, compared to increases 
from 2000 to 2005. Females in most states experienced small gains in life 
expectancy between 2000 and 2010. The unprecedented rise in homicides after 2005 
led to a reversal in life expectancy increases among males and a slowdown among 
females in most states in the first decade of the twenty-first century.

Project HOPE—The People-to-People Health Foundation, Inc.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2015.0068
PMCID: PMC5453309
PMID: 26733705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Clujul Med. 2015;88(4):449-52. doi: 10.15386/cjmed-491. Epub 2015 Nov 15.

Measurement of current perception thresholds using the Neurometer(®) - 
applicability in diabetic neuropathy.

Inceu GV(1), Veresiu IA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Diabetes, , Iuliu Hatieganu University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, Cluj-Napoca, Romania.

The incidence of diabetes mellitus is continuously growing worldwide, while the 
specific chronic complications that it induces have a negative impact on life 
expectancy andquality, entailing extremely high costs of healthcare services. 
Diabetic peripheral neuropathy is one of the most common chronic complications 
of diabetes, affecting almost half of diabetic people during life. This review 
aims at summarizing the evidence on the advantages and the usefulness of current 
perception threshold measurement for peripheral diabetic neuropathy assessment. 
Among the different methods used for the screening and diagnosis of diabetic 
neuropathy, measurement of current perception threshold using the Neurometer® 
has the ability to assess three sub-types of nerve fiber by producing 
transcutaneous electrical stimuli at frequencies of 2000, 250 and 5 Hz. Current 
evidence shows that this method provides a useful, noninvasive evaluation 
technique of patients with peripheral nervous system disorders, being able to 
detect neuropathy in the earliest and asymptomatic stages.

DOI: 10.15386/cjmed-491
PMCID: PMC4689234
PMID: 26733741


888. Front Plant Sci. 2015 Dec 21;6:1145. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2015.01145.
eCollection  2015.

Understanding Water-Stress Responses in Soybean Using Hydroponics System-A 
Systems Biology Perspective.

Tripathi P(1), Rabara RC(1), Shulaev V(2), Shen QJ(3), Rushton PJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology and Microbiology, South Dakota State University 
Brookings, SD, USA.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, University of North Texas Denton, TX, USA.
(3)School of Life Sciences, University of Nevada Las Vegas Las Vegas, NV, USA.
(4)Texas A&M AgriLife Research & Extension Center Dallas, TX, USA.

The deleterious changes in environmental conditions such as water stress bring 
physiological and biochemical changes in plants, which results in crop loss. 
Thus, combating water stress is important for crop improvement to manage the 
needs of growing population. Utilization of hydroponics system in growing plants 
is questionable to some researchers, as it does not represent an actual field 
condition. However, trying to address a complex problem like water stress we 
have to utilize a simpler growing condition like the hydroponics system wherein 
every input given to the plants can be controlled. With the advent of 
high-throughput technologies, it is still challenging to address all levels of 
the genetic machinery whether a gene, protein, metabolite, and promoter. Thus, 
using a system of reduced complexity like hydroponics can certainly direct us 
toward the right candidates, if not completely help us to resolve the issue.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2015.01145
PMCID: PMC4685135
PMID: 26734044


889. BMJ Qual Improv Rep. 2015 Jun 17;4(1):u202645.w3700. doi: 
10.1136/bmjquality.u202645.w3700. eCollection 2015.

Monitoring of physical health parameters for inpatients on a child and 
adolescent mental health unit receiving regular antipsychotic therapy.

Pasha N(1), Saeed S(1), Drewek K(1).

Author information:
(1)St Georges Hospital London.

Physical health monitoring of patients receiving antipsychotics is vital. 
Overall it is estimated that individuals suffering with conditions like 
schizophrenia have a 20% shorter life expectancy than the average population, 
moreover antipsychotic use has been linked to a number of conditions including 
diabetes, obesity, and cardiovascular disease.[1-4] The severity of possible 
adverse effects to antipsychotics in adults has raised awareness of the 
importance of monitoring physical health in this population. However, there is 
little literature available as to the adverse effects of these medications in 
the child and adolescent community, which make physical health monitoring in 
this predominantly antipsychotic naïve population even more important. An expert 
group meeting in the UK has laid down recommendations in regards to screening 
and management of adult patients receiving antipsychotics, however no specific 
guidelines have been put in place for the child and adolescent age group.[5] The 
aim of this audit was to establish whether in-patients receiving antipsychotics 
had the following investigations pre-treatment and 12 weeks after treatment 
initiation: body mass index, hip-waist circumference, blood pressure, ECG, urea 
and electrolytes, full blood count, lipid profile, random glucose level, liver 
function test, and prolactin. This is in addition to a pre-treatment VTE risk 
assessment. These standards were derived from local trust guidelines, NICE 
guidelines on schizophrenia [6] and The Maudsley Prescribing Guidelines.[7] We 
retrospectively reviewed 39 electronic case notes in total, of which 24 cases 
were post intervention. Intervention included the use of a prompting tool. This 
tool was filed in the physical health files of all patients receiving 
antipsychotics which was intended as a reminder to doctors regarding their 
patient's need for physical health monitoring. Professionals involved in the 
monitoring of such parameters were educated in the importance and purpose of its 
use. Following this intervention re-audit occurred after 6 and 16 months of the 
initial audit to establish whether the use of the prompting tool caused any 
significant change in clinical practice. Overall performance in monitoring 
physical health parameters was initially poor, however we were able to 
demonstrate that with the help of a single prompt sheet there was a significant 
improvement following post intervention audit for the majority of parameters 
being monitored.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjquality.u202645.w3700
PMCID: PMC4695963
PMID: 26734455


890. Cad Saude Publica. 2015 Oct;31(10):2169-84. doi: 10.1590/0102-311X00133714.

[Evolution of the burden of injuries in Brazil: a comparison between 1998 and 
2008].

[Article in Portuguese]

Mendes LV(1), Campos MR(1), von-Doellinger Vdos R(1), Mota JC(1), Pimentel 
TG(1), Schramm JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Escola Nacional de Saúde Pública Sergio Arouca, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brasil.

The objective of this study was to compare estimates of external causes based on 
the Global Burden of Disease in Brazil Study for the years 1998 and 2008. 
Methods included estimation of DALYs (disability-adjusted life years) and YLL 
(years of life lost), based on the methodology proposed in the Global Burden of 
Disease Study. Calculation of YLD (years lived with disability) required 
applying the same methodology in both years, with the 2008 methodology as the 
standard. Although external causes accounted for some 10% of total DALYs in both 
years, their internal distribution showed marked differences between regions of 
Brazil, with a decrease in the Southeast and increase in the North and 
Northeast. There was an increase in intentional causes, and YLLs accounted for 
the largest share of DALYs. The results can support new policies and/or improve 
existing ones to address external causes.

DOI: 10.1590/0102-311X00133714
PMID: 26735384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Annu Rev Public Health. 2016;37:413-30. doi: 
10.1146/annurev-publhealth-032315-021606. Epub 2016 Jan 6.

The Health Effects of Income Inequality: Averages and Disparities.

Truesdale BC(1), Jencks C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology.
(2)Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 
02138; email: truesdal@fas.harvard.edu , cjencks@hks.harvard.edu.

Much research has investigated the association of income inequality with average 
life expectancy, usually finding negative correlations that are not very robust. 
A smaller body of work has investigated socioeconomic disparities in life 
expectancy, which have widened in many countries since 1980. These two lines of 
work should be seen as complementary because changes in average life expectancy 
are unlikely to affect all socioeconomic groups equally. Although most theories 
imply long and variable lags between changes in income inequality and changes in 
health, empirical evidence is confined largely to short-term effects. Rising 
income inequality can affect individuals in two ways. Direct effects change 
individuals' own income. Indirect effects change other people's income, which 
can then change a society's politics, customs, and ideals, altering the behavior 
even of those whose own income remains unchanged. Indirect effects can thus 
change both average health and the slope of the relationship between individual 
income and health.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-publhealth-032315-021606
PMID: 26735427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Annu Rev Public Health. 2016;37:395-412. doi: 
10.1146/annurev-publhealth-032315-021507. Epub 2016 Jan 6.

Rural Health Care Access and Policy in Developing Countries.

Strasser R(1), Kam SM(2), Regalado SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Northern Ontario School of Medicine, Sudbury and Thunder Bay, Ontario, 
Canada; email: roger.strasser@nosm.ca.
(2)School of Rural and Northern Health, Laurentian University, Sudbury, ON P3E 
2C6 Canada.

Compared to their urban counterparts, rural and remote inhabitants experience 
lower life expectancy and poorer health status. Nowhere is the worldwide 
shortage of health professionals more pronounced than in rural areas of 
developing countries. Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) includes a disproportionately 
large number of developing countries; therefore, this article explores SSA in 
depth as an example. Using the conceptual framework of access to primary health 
care, sustainable rural health service models, rural health workforce supply, 
and policy implications, this article presents a review of the academic and gray 
literature as the basis for recommendations designed to achieve greater health 
equity. An alternative international standard for health professional education 
is recommended. Decision makers should draw upon the expertise of communities to 
identify community-specific health priorities and should build capacity to 
enable the recruitment and training of local students from underserviced areas 
to deliver quality health care in rural community settings.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-publhealth-032315-021507
PMID: 26735432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Community Dent Health. 2015 Dec;32(4):231-6.

Listening to older adults: community consultation on a new dental service.

Chideka K, Klass C, Dunne S, Gallagher JE.

BACKGROUND: Increased life expectancy, retention of a natural dentition often 
heavily restored, and increasing risks of oral disease mean that older people 
have particular dental needs and yet uptake of care is low. A new health and 
wellbeing centre in south London offering student-delivered care has been built 
to serve the local community. Community views could informed the planning of 
acceptable care for older people.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the views and expectations of older adults towards dental 
services and ascertain how a new dental centre may best provide dental care.
RESEARCH DESIGN: This qualitative study used in-depth and triad interviews to 
explore the views of older people. Purposive sampling of local centres/groups 
for older adults was undertaken and all willing clients interviewed. Interviews 
were audio recorded, transcribed and analysed using Framework Methodology with 
emerging themes categorised according to Maxwell's six descriptors of quality.
RESULTS: Nine sessions (five triad and four in-depth interviews) involving 17 
older adults were conducted in local day centres. Barriers to dental care were 
largely related to fear, cost, transport, lack of perceived need and the 
attitude of clinicians. Outcomes related to acceptability featured highly in a 
dental service for older adults; the overarching principles of 'delivering 
mutual benefit' for students and older people, 'experiencing warm humanity' and 
'restoring dignity and worth' were central to their views of quality care. The 
importance of clinicians, whether student or staff, delivering person centred 
care with warm humanity was dominant: comprising 'welcoming', 'valuing', 
'listening' 'communicating' and 'caring' for older adults to enhance 
relationships and contributing to 'restoring dignity and worth'.
CONCLUSION: Community engagement identified a willingness amongst older adults 
to utilise dental services where mutual benefit was perceived and, importantly, 
there were low barriers to care and a warm humanity was exhibited.

PMID: 26738221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Practitioner. 2015 Oct;259(1786):15-20, 2.

Playing it safe: exercise and cardiovascular health.

Dhutia H, Sharma S.

Regular physical activity controls acquired cardiovascular risk factors such as 
obesity, diabetes mellitus, hypertension and hyperlipidaemia. Exercise is 
generally associated with a 50% reduction in adverse events from coronary artery 
disease (CAD). The benefits of exercise extend well beyond the cardiovascular 
system. Recent evidence suggests that exercise prevents cell senescence, and 
active individuals are at lower risk of developing certain malignancies 
including cancer of the prostate and the colon, osteoporosis, depression and 
dementia. Individuals who exercise regularly extend their life expectancy by 
three to seven years. Healthy individuals should engage in 150 minutes of 
moderate-intensity, aerobic exercise per week. Recent studies have demonstrated 
that even lower volumes of exercise below these recommendations confer health 
benefits, which is highly relevant to individuals with established cardiac 
disease including heart failure. Sudden cardiac death in athletes under 35 is 
rare with.estimates ranging from 1 in 50,000 to 1 in 200,000. Hereditary and 
congenital abnormalities of the heart are the most common cause of nontraumatic 
death during sport in young athletes. In middle-aged recreational athletes more 
than 90% of sudden cardiac deaths occur in males and more than 90% are caused by 
atherosclerotic CAD. The AHA and the ESC advocate pre-participation screening of 
young athletes. The ECG has the ability to detect congenital accessory pathways 
and ion channelopathies, and is frequently abnormal in individuals with 
cardiomyopathy. Screening with a 12-lead ECG in older athletes is of limited 
value given the overwhelming contribution of atherosclerotic CAD to sudden 
cardiac death.

PMID: 26738247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Mol Biol Cell. 2016 Feb 15;27(4):716-30. doi: 10.1091/mbc.E15-08-0547. Epub
2016  Jan 6.

Differential regulation of translation and endocytosis of alternatively spliced 
forms of the type II bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) receptor.

Amsalem AR(1), Marom B(1), Shapira KE(1), Hirschhorn T(2), Preisler L(1), 
Paarmann P(3), Knaus P(3), Henis YI(4), Ehrlich M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel.
(2)Department of Cell Research and Immunology, George S. Wise Faculty of Life 
Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel.
(3)Institute for Chemistry and Biochemistry, Freie Univesitaet Berlin, 1495 
Berlin, Germany.
(4)Department of Neurobiology, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel 
henis@post.tau.ac.il marceloe@post.tau.ac.il.
(5)Department of Cell Research and Immunology, George S. Wise Faculty of Life 
Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel henis@post.tau.ac.il 
marceloe@post.tau.ac.il.

The expression and function of transforming growth factor-β superfamily 
receptors are regulated by multiple molecular mechanisms. The type II BMP 
receptor (BMPRII) is expressed as two alternatively spliced forms, a long and a 
short form (BMPRII-LF and -SF, respectively), which differ by an ∼500 amino acid 
C-terminal extension, unique among TGF-β superfamily receptors. Whereas this 
extension was proposed to modulate BMPRII signaling output, its contribution to 
the regulation of receptor expression was not addressed. To map regulatory 
determinants of BMPRII expression, we compared synthesis, degradation, 
distribution, and endocytic trafficking of BMPRII isoforms and mutants. We 
identified translational regulation of BMPRII expression and the contribution of 
a 3' terminal coding sequence to this process. BMPRII-LF and -SF differed also 
in their steady-state levels, kinetics of degradation, intracellular 
distribution, and internalization rates. A single dileucine signal in the 
C-terminal extension of BMPRII-LF accounted for its faster clathrin-mediated 
endocytosis relative to BMPRII-SF, accompanied by mildly faster degradation. 
Higher expression of BMPRII-SF at the plasma membrane resulted in enhanced 
activation of Smad signaling, stressing the potential importance of the 
multilayered regulation of BMPRII expression at the plasma membrane.

© 2016 Amsalem et al. This article is distributed by The American Society for 
Cell Biology under license from the author(s). Two months after publication it 
is available to the public under an Attribution–Noncommercial–Share Alike 3.0 
Unported Creative Commons License 
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0).

DOI: 10.1091/mbc.E15-08-0547
PMCID: PMC4750929
PMID: 26739752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. BMC Cancer. 2016 Jan 6;16:6. doi: 10.1186/s12885-015-2045-8.

Successful en bloc venous resection with reconstruction and subsequent 
radiotherapy for 2 consecutive recurrences of intravenous leiomyoma--a case 
report.

Zhang Y(1)(2), Clark LH(3), Sheng X(4), Zhou C(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, Shandong Cancer Hospital and Institute, 
440 Jiyan Road, Jinan, 250017, China.
(2)School of Medicine and Life Sciences, Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, 
University of Jinan, Jinan, China.
(3)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(4)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, Shandong Cancer Hospital and Institute, 
440 Jiyan Road, Jinan, 250017, China. shengxiugui@163.com.
(5)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. czhou@med.unc.edu.
(6)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, 27599, USA. czhou@med.unc.edu.

BACKGROUND: Intravenous leiomyomas are a rare variant of uterine leiomyoma. 
Although histologically benign, these tumors are associated with a poor 
prognosis due to propensity for metastasis, high recurrence rate, difficulty of 
obtaining complete resection, and frequent extension into and along major veins.
CASE PRESENTATION: We describe a 43-year-old patient initially presenting with 
lower abdominal pain. Clinical examination revealed a large right pelvic mass 
that was shown by computed tomography (CT) to surround the right external iliac 
vein, right common iliac vein and distal inferior vena cava. The patient had a 
history of total abdominal hysterectomy with bilateral ovarian cystectomies for 
uterine leiomyoma approximately 3 years prior to her presentation. Her past 
surgical history also included removal of an ovarian endometriosis cyst and 
right hydrosalpinx. The patient underwent an exploratory laparotomy. Operative 
findings included complete occlusion of the right iliac vessels and distal vena 
cava by a large tumor that filled the pelvis and extended to the level of the 
right kidney. The mass was resected en bloc with the involved veins and 
synthetic vascular grafts were placed. This highly technical procedure was 
complicated by hemorrhage requiring a total of 32 units of red blood cells and 
2.0 L of plasma. Pathologic examination confirmed intravenous leiomyoma. On 
Immunohistochemical staining, the tumor cells were positive for CD32, CD34, 
Vimentin and smooth muscle actin. Eight months after this procedure, the patient 
again presented with an abdominal mass. She was diagnosed with a pelvic 
recurrence and noted to have intravascular extension into the left iliac vein 
and inferior vena cava. For this tumor she underwent radiation treatment with 
three-dimensional conformal radiation therapy (total dose 4500 cGy). The tumor 
gradually decreased in size during follow-up and became undetectable by CT.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical excision is the mainstay of treatment of intravenous 
leiomyoma. Radiation therapy may be an effective alternative in patients with 
unresectable disease or poor surgical candidates.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-015-2045-8
PMCID: PMC4704417
PMID: 26739818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Pharmacoeconomics. 2016 May;34(5):479-98. doi: 10.1007/s40273-015-0367-7.

Economic Burden and Quality-of-Life Effects of Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia: A 
Systematic Review of the Literature.

Frey S(1), Blankart CR(1)(2), Stargardt T(3).

Author information:
(1)Hamburg Center for Health Economics, Universität Hamburg, Esplanade 36, 
20354, Hamburg, Germany.
(2)Center for Gerontology and Health Care Research, School of Public Health, 
Brown University, Providence, RI, USA.
(3)Hamburg Center for Health Economics, Universität Hamburg, Esplanade 36, 
20354, Hamburg, Germany. tom.stargardt@wiso.uni-hamburg.de.

BACKGROUND: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most prevalent type of 
leukemia in the Western hemisphere. The disease affects quality of life (QOL) 
and poses an economic burden on patients, payers, and society. The objective of 
this review was to quantify the economic burden and quality-of-life effects and 
identify the gaps that should be addressed by future research.
METHODS: Free-text and subject heading searches in MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane 
Library, the University of York Centre for Reviews and Dissemination Database, 
and the Web of Science Core Collection database were conducted to identify 
observational and interventional studies reporting costs and/or quality-of-life 
effects published up to 2 October 2015. Studies were included irrespective of 
whether they were conducted prospectively or retrospectively. The focus 
population consisted of adult patients aged 18 years or older affected by any 
stage of CLL. Studies were included regardless of whether the underlying 
population was treated at baseline or not. Risk of bias was assessed using a 
quality checklist developed by the Effective Public Health Practice Project for 
(randomized) controlled trials, cohort studies, and cross-sectional studies. 
Economic evaluations were rated using a checklist developed by Stuhldreher et 
al. (Int J Eat Disord 45:476-91, 2012).
RESULTS: From 2451 records identified, 27 studies were found to be eligible for 
inclusion. Studies were heterogeneous with respect to methodology, perspective, 
and data used. Annual direct costs per person ranged from US$4491 in Germany to 
US$43,913 in the USA. The share of costs attributable to drug treatment varied 
between 26.2 and 79 %. Indirect costs amounted to US$4208. Severity of disease 
was a predictor for quality of life, whereas differences by age and sex were 
mainly present in subdomains. Comparisons of treated and untreated populations 
resulted in an increase of quality of life in favor of treated populations in 
the long-term perspective. Differences between treatments were small. 
Consequently, cost effectiveness in decision-analytic models did not depend on 
whether quality of life or survival are used to describe the benefits of 
treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the quantity and the quality of health economic and 
quality-of-life evidence have substantially increased, there is still a need for 
studies that take a patient or societal perspective. Factors that influence 
costs and the quality of life of patients seem to be well-established, while 
longitudinal lifetime cost studies at the population level are still scarce.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-015-0367-7
PMID: 26739956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Pharmacoeconomics. 2016 May;34(5):509-20. doi: 10.1007/s40273-015-0366-8.

Cost Effectiveness of First-Line Oral Therapies for Pulmonary Arterial 
Hypertension: A Modelling Study.

Coyle K(1), Coyle D(2)(3), Blouin J(4), Lee K(4), Jabr MF(4), Tran K(4), 
Mielniczuk L(5), Swiston J(6), Innes M(4).

Author information:
(1)Brunel University, Gaskell building, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UB8 3PH, UK. 
Kathryn.Coyle@brunel.ac.uk.
(2)Brunel University, Gaskell building, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UB8 3PH, UK.
(3)University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(4)Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health (CADTH), Ottawa, ON, 
Canada.
(5)University of Ottawa Heart Institute, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(6)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

BACKGROUND: In recent years, a significant number of costly oral therapies have 
become available for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). 
Funding decisions for these therapies requires weighing up their effectiveness 
and costs.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the cost effectiveness of 
monotherapy with oral PAH-specific therapies versus supportive care as initial 
therapy for patients with functional class (FC) II and III PAH in Canada.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis, from the perspective of a healthcare system 
and based on a Markov model, was designed to estimate the costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) associated with bosentan, ambrisentan, 
riociguat, tadalafil, sildenafil and supportive care for PAH in treatment-naïve 
patients. Separate analyses were conducted for cohorts of patients commencing 
therapy at FC II and III PAH. Transition probabilities, based on the relative 
risk of improving and worsening in FC with treatment versus placebo, were 
derived from a recent network meta-analysis. Utility values and costs were 
obtained from published data and clinical expert opinion. Extensive sensitivity 
analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: Analysis suggests that sildenafil is the most cost-effective therapy 
for PAH in patients with FC II or III. Sildenafil was both the least costly and 
most effective therapy, thereby dominating all other treatments. Tadalafil was 
also less costly and more effective than supportive care in FC II and III; 
however, sildenafil was dominant over tadalafil. Even given the uncertainty 
within the clinical inputs, the probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that 
apart from sildenafil and tadalafil, the other PAH therapies had negligible 
probability of being the most cost effective.
CONCLUSION: The results show that initiation of therapy with sildenafil is 
likely the most cost-effective strategy in PAH patients with either FC II or III 
disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-015-0366-8
PMCID: PMC4828471
PMID: 26739957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2016 Jun;63(6):962-3. doi: 10.1002/pbc.25891. Epub
2016  Jan 6.

When Life Expectancy is Not Short Enough: A Perspective on the National 
Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) Preliminary Guidance for 
Dinutuximab.

Adamson PC(1), Park JR(2), Pearson AD(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Children's Oncology Group, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(2)Division of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, Seattle Children's 
Hospital/University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.
(3)Formerly, Division of Clinical Studies, The Institute of Cancer Research, 
London, UK.
(4)Formerly, Paediatric Drug Development, Children and Young People's Unit, The 
Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, Sutton, UK.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.25891
PMID: 26740172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Biotechnol Biotechnol Equip. 2014 Nov 2;28(6):999-1007. doi: 
10.1080/13102818.2014.978664. Epub 2014 Nov 18.

Expression analysis of innate immunity related genes in the true/field blast 
resistance gene-mediated defence response.

Wang D(1), Qin Y(1), Han J(2), Zhang L(3), Xu X(1), Liu X(1), Wang C(1), Liu 
X(1).

Author information:
(1)Hubei Provincial Key Laboratory for Protection and Application of Special 
Plants in Wuling Area of China, College of Life Science, South-Central 
University for Nationalities , Wuhan , Hubei , P.R. China.
(2)Hubei Provincial Key Laboratory for Protection and Application of Special 
Plants in Wuling Area of China, College of Life Science, South-Central 
University for Nationalities, Wuhan, Hubei, P.R. China; College of Life Science, 
South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, P.R. China.
(3)Agricultural Technology Extension and Service Center of Jingzhou City , 
Jingzhou , Hubei , P.R. China.

Rice blast resistance (R) genes-mediated resistance response depends on various 
resistance-related genes involved in incompatible interactions. In this work, 
the expression profiles of innate rice immunity related genes were examined in 
the mediated resistance response of true/field resistance genes. Three sets of 
rice near-isogenic lines (NILs) were used: the resistant NILs carrying true 
resistance genes in the genetic background of the susceptible cultivar 
Nipponbare (NB), NB-Pib, NB-Pizt, NB-Pik and NB-Pita2; NILs bearing field 
resistance genes pi21 in the susceptible cultivar Aichiasahi (AA) AA-pi21, Kahei 
(KHR). The marker gene OsWRKY45 of salicylic acid (SA) signalling was 
upregulated in all tested cultivars. And, JAmyb (marker gene of jasmonic acid 
signalling) showed higher upregulation in the resistance lines with 
nucleotide-binding sites and leucine-rich repeat (NBS-LRR) R genes Pib, Pizt, 
Pik, Pita2 and Pikahei than in NB and KHS. SalT of abscisic acid (ABA) 
signalling may be involved in the R/Avr interaction, including Pizt, Pik, pi21 
and Pikahei. However, SalT was shown to negatively regulate Pib/AvrPib 
interaction. OsPR1b and PBZ1 were differentially expressed and strongly 
activated at a later stage by 48 h post-inoculation. Interestingly, there was 
evidence that OsPR1b and PBZ1 played an important role in the pi21-mediated 
response. It was shown that OsRAR1 could be upregulated in the true resistance 
line NB-Pita2 and the field resistance line KHR, while OsSGT1 and OsHSP90 could 
be upregulated in all tested lines. The involvement of these genes illustrated 
the complexity of the downstream signalling pathways in the mediated resistance 
response of true/field resistance genes.

DOI: 10.1080/13102818.2014.978664
PMCID: PMC4697195
PMID: 26740780901. AIDS Patient Care STDS. 2016 Feb;30(2):56-69. doi: 10.1089/apc.2015.0260.
Epub  2016 Jan 7.

Sexuality and Reproduction in HIV-Positive Women: A Meta-Synthesis.

Carlsson-Lalloo E(1)(2), Rusner M(1)(3), Mellgren Å(2)(3), Berg M(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)1 Institute of Health and Care Sciences, Sahlgrenska Academy, Gothenburg, 
Sweden .
(2)2 Clinic of Infectious Diseases, Södra Älvsborg Hospital , Borås, Sweden .
(3)3 Department of Research, Södra Älvsborg Hospital , Borås, Sweden .
(4)4 Centre for Person-Centred Care (GPCC), University of Gothenburg , 
Gothenburg, Sweden .

The increased access to effective antiretroviral treatment (ART) has made HIV 
comparable to a chronic disease in terms of life expectancy. Needs related to 
sexuality and reproduction are central to overall health and well-being. An 
interpretative meta-synthesis was performed to synthesize and assess how 
HIV-positive women's experiences of sexuality and reproduction have been 
described in qualitative studies. A total of 18 peer-reviewed qualitative 
studies were included, which comprised a total of 588 HIV-positive interviewed 
women. The studies originated from resource-rich countries outside the Asian and 
African continents. The analysis, resulting in a lines-of-argument synthesis, 
shows that HIV infection was a burden in relation to sexuality and reproduction. 
The weight of the burden could be heavier or lighter. Conditions making the HIV 
burden heavier were: HIV as a barrier, feelings of fear and loss, whereas 
motherhood, spiritual beliefs, and supportive relationships made the HIV burden 
lighter. The findings are important in developing optimal health care by 
addressing conditions making the burden of HIV infection lighter to bear. In 
future research there is a need to focus not only on examining how HIV-positive 
women's sexual and relationships manifest themselves, but also on how health 
care professionals should provide adequate support to the women in relation to 
sexuality and reproduction.

DOI: 10.1089/apc.2015.0260
PMCID: PMC4753620
PMID: 26741804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. NPJ Prim Care Respir Med. 2016 Jan 7;26:15074. doi: 10.1038/npjpcrm.2015.74.

When should I be considering home oxygen for my patients?

Suntharalingam J(1), Hippolyte S(2), Knowles V(3), Freeman D(4), Patel I(5), 
Hardinge M(6).

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Department, Royal United Hospitals Bath NHS Foundation Trust, 
Bath, UK.
(2)Respiratory Department, Respiratory SpR, Royal Brompton Hospital, London, UK.
(3)Guildford and Waverley Clinical Commissioning Group, Guildford, UK.
(4)Mundesley Medical Centre, NHS England, Midlands and East, Norfolk, UK.
(5)Respiratory Department, Integrated Care, Kings Health Partners, King College 
London School of Medicine, London, UK.
(6)Respiratory Department, Churchill Hospital, Oxford, UK.

The ability to provide oxygen in a patient's home can offer enormous benefits, 
including improvements in life expectancy when given in the appropriate setting. 
Confusingly, however, home oxygen is available in many forms, including 
long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT), ambulatory oxygen therapy (AOT), palliative 
oxygen therapy (POT) and short-burst oxygen therapy (SBOT)-each with varying 
degrees of supporting evidence. The British Thoracic Society (BTS) has recently 
published new guidance on home oxygen therapy, after collating the available 
evidence. This article aims to summarise those guidelines, focusing on who 
should and should not be considered for oxygen therapy. Although the BTS 
guidelines target a UK audience, many of the principles covered below are 
applicable internationally, even if the availability of certain oxygen 
modalities and supporting service arrangements may vary between different 
healthcare systems.

DOI: 10.1038/npjpcrm.2015.74
PMCID: PMC4704531
PMID: 26742088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Food Microbiol. 2016 May;55:25-31. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2015.11.009. Epub 2015
Nov  19.

Development of a predictive model for the growth kinetics of aerobic microbial 
population on pomegranate marinated chicken breast fillets under isothermal and 
dynamic temperature conditions.

Lytou A(1), Panagou EZ(1), Nychas GJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Microbiology and Biotechnology of Foods, Department of Food 
Science and Human Nutrition, Agricultural University of Athens, Iera Odos 75, 
Athens 11855, Greece.
(2)Laboratory of Microbiology and Biotechnology of Foods, Department of Food 
Science and Human Nutrition, Agricultural University of Athens, Iera Odos 75, 
Athens 11855, Greece. Electronic address: gjn@aua.gr.

The aim of this study was the development of a model to describe the growth 
kinetics of aerobic microbial population of chicken breast fillets marinated in 
pomegranate juice under isothermal and dynamic temperature conditions. Moreover, 
the effect of pomegranate juice on the extension of the shelf life of the 
product was investigated. Samples (10 g) of chicken breast fillets were immersed 
in marinades containing pomegranate juice for 3 h at 4 °C following storage 
under aerobic conditions at 4, 10, and 15 °C for 10 days. Total Viable Counts 
(TVC), Pseudomonas spp and lactic acid bacteria (LAB) were enumerated, in 
parallel with sensory assessment (odor and overall appearance) of marinated and 
non-marinated samples. The Baranyi model was fitted to the growth data of TVC to 
calculate the maximum specific growth rate (μmax) that was further modeled as a 
function of temperature using a square root-type model. The validation of the 
model was conducted under dynamic temperature conditions based on two 
fluctuating temperature scenarios with periodic changes from 6 to 13 °C. The 
shelf life was determined both mathematically and with sensory assessment and 
its temperature dependence was modeled by an Arrhenius type equation. Results 
showed that the μmax of TVC of marinated samples was significantly lower 
compared to control samples regardless temperature, while under dynamic 
temperature conditions the model satisfactorily predicted the growth of TVC in 
both control and marinated samples. The shelf-life of marinated samples was 
significantly extended compared to the control (5 days extension at 4 °C). The 
calculated activation energies (Ea), 82 and 52 kJ/mol for control and marinated 
samples, respectively, indicated higher temperature dependence of the shelf life 
of control samples compared to marinated ones. The present results indicated 
that pomegranate juice could be used as an alternative ingredient in marinades 
to prolong the shelf life of chicken.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2015.11.009
PMID: 26742613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


