178. Med Hypotheses. 2016 Feb;87:22-7. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2015.12.012. Epub 2015
Dec  18.

Immediate hemodynamic changes after revascularization of complete infrarenal 
aortic occlusion: A classic issue revisited.

Georgakarakos E(1), Argyriou C(2), Georgiadis GS(2), Ioannou CV(3), Lazarides 
MK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, "Democritus" University of Thrace, University 
Hospital of Alexandroupolis, Alexandroupolis, Greece. Electronic address: 
efstratiosgeorg@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Vascular Surgery, "Democritus" University of Thrace, University 
Hospital of Alexandroupolis, Alexandroupolis, Greece.
(3)Vascular Surgery Department, University of Crete Medical School, Heraklion, 
Crete, Greece.

Chronic total occlusion of the infrarenal aorta (CTOA) is a rare disease, 
characterized by severe impairment of limb perfusion. It is advocated that 
revascularization may improve survival rates, presumably due to improved 
cardiovascular performance; however no experimental or clinical data exist to 
identify a clear causative correlation and provide a relevant pathophysiologic 
background. Therefore we conducted a pilot study based on pulse wave analysis to 
detect the hemodynamic changes immediately after revascularization, in a group 
of six consecutive patients with CTOA. All patients were subjected to 
non-invasive measurements 1 day before surgery and at the end of the 1st 
postoperative month. Pulse wave analysis was performed noninvasively with a 
novel validated brachial cuff-based automatic oscillometric device. All patients 
had markedly preoperative high Augmentation Index (adjusted at heart rate 75 
beats/min, AI@75). The AI@75 decreased from 46 ± 6.6 preoperatively to 24 ± 5.7 
(p 0.0002). Wave reflection magnitude decreased from 72.3 ± 5.2% to 63 ± 6.7% (p 
0.02). Cardiax index increased from 2.8 ± 1.2 to 3.4 ± 1.2l/min × 1/m(2) (p 
0.41). Pulse wave velocity remained practically unchanged post-interventionally. 
These findings show that central aorta hemodynamics can be improved immediately 
following revascularization procedures in patients with complete occlusion of 
the entire length of the infrarenal aorta and can constitute the background of 
improved postoperative life-expectancy.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2015.12.012
PMID: 26826635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Seishin Shinkeigaku Zasshi. 2015;117(10):826-36.

[Deceased Schizophrenic Patients--Focus on QT Prolongation].

[Article in Japanese]

Matsuda K, Kase K, Hara K, Asai Y, Asai K, Sakurai S, Yumoto T, Takayama K, 
Shuno T.

We retrospectively evaluated factors affecting the lifespan of schizophrenic 
patients, who are known to have a shorter life expectancy than healthy people, 
focusing on the relationship with QT prolongation associated with 
antipsychotics. In a total of 406 patients who died at Asai Hospital the mean 
age at death was compared between schizophrenic patients and nonpsychiatric 
patients. In deceased schizophrenic patients, drug-related factors, hematology 
results, and electrocardiographic findings for 3 years before death were 
compared with those for the same period in age-matched surviving schizophrenic 
patients. In addition, QT values in schizophrenic patients and healthy controls 
were evaluated by age group. The mean age at death was significantly younger in 
schizophrenic patients (63.4 +/- 2.63 years) than in nonpsychiatric patients 
(84.0 +/- 0.57 years) (p<0.001). Bivariate analysis between deceased and 
surviving schizophrenic patients showed significant differences in QT values at 
2 years, 1 year, and 0.5 years before death and in AST and ALT values at 
0.5.years before death. The incidence of QT prolongation in deceased 
schizophrenic patients (52.0%) was about twice as high as that in surviving 
schizophrenic patients (24.5%). Multiple logistic regression analysis suggested 
that the proportion of deceased patients was higher when QT intervals were 
longer and ALT values were relatively higher, even if within the normal range. 
In both schizophrenic patients and medical checkup examinees, QT values were 
positively correlated with the age (R2 = 0.9061 and 0.9276, respectively), and 
QT intervals in schizophrenic patients were significantly longer in the 30- to 
70-year age groups. In both schizophrenic patients and medical checkup 
examinees, QT values were positively correlated with the age, and QT intervals 
in schizophrenic patients were significantly longer than those in medical 
checkup examinees in the same age groups. Deceased schizophrenic patients showed 
significantly longer QT intervals from 2 years before death than age-matched 
surviving schizophrenic patients. QT prolongation may influence the lifespan of 
schizophrenic patients, which are shorter than those of nonpsychiatric patients. 
This highlights the importance of following electrocardiographic findings and 
hematology results of schizophrenic patients over time.

PMID: 26827408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Can J Diabetes. 2016 Feb;40(1):17-30. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjd.2015.10.005.

Diabetes Management in Long-Term Care: An Exploratory Study of the Current 
Practices and Processes to Managing Frail Elderly Persons with Type 2 Diabetes.

Osman O(1), Sherifali D(2), Stolee P(1), Heckman G(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Health Systems, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, 
Ontario, Canada.
(2)School of Nursing, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; Diabetes 
Care and Research Program, Hamilton Health Sciences, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. 
Electronic address: dsherif@mcmaster.ca.
(3)School of Public Health and Health Systems, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, 
Ontario, Canada; Schlegel University of Waterloo Research Institute for Aging, 
Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: There is limited evidence for the management of diabetes in frail 
elderly residents living in long-term care (LTC) settings. The purpose of this 
study was to explore the current practices of glycemic management in frail 
elderly persons with diabetes living in LTC settings.
METHODS: Using a mixed-methods convergent parallel design, this study surveyed 
medical directors and attending physicians of long-term care centres through an 
online questionnaire and one-on-one semistructured interviews.
RESULTS: A total of 39 questionnaires were completed, representing a variety of 
LTC settings, including private and public settings. Diabetes management 
practices varied across the participating settings with respect to glucose 
targets, with 69% of respondents selecting glycated hemoglobin levels of 8% or 
greater as being appropriate for LTC residents. Blood glucose monitoring, 
pharmacotherapy, presence of comorbidities, frailty and life expectancy were 
highlighted as variables for consideration in diabetes management in LTC. 
Interviews with attending physicians further illustrated the variability of 
opinions related to the use of clinical practice guidelines, glucose target 
levels and intensity of management (i.e. blood glucose monitoring and 
pharmacotherapy).
CONCLUSIONS: The findings of this study were triangulated with both the 
quantitative survey and the qualitative interviews. The implications of these 
findings suggest a disparity between what physicians feel should be achieved for 
diabetes management and what is actually done for frail elderly adults in LTC 
settings. Further research needs to be completed to assess the distinct needs 
and considerations of this unique population and healthcare setting.

Copyright © 2015 Canadian Diabetes Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjd.2015.10.005
PMID: 26827683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. NCHS Data Brief. 2016 Jan;(233):1-8.

Mortality Among Centenarians in the United States, 2000-2014.

Xu J.

Data from the National Vital Statistics System, Mortality. Death rates for 
centenarians increased from 2000 through 2008 and then decreased through 2014 
for both males and females. Death rates for centenarians increased from 2000 
through 2006 for the Hispanic population and from 2000 through 2008 for the non- 
Hispanic white and black populations, and subsequently decreased through 2014 
for all racial and ethnic groups examined. The top five causes of death among 
centenarians in 2014 were heart disease, Alzheimer's disease, stroke, cancer, 
and influenza and pneumonia. Death rates for Alzheimer's disease increased 119% 
between 2000 and 2014 among centenarians.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 26828422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Cancer. 2016 Apr 1;122(7):1085-96. doi: 10.1002/cncr.29892. Epub 2016 Feb 1.

Management of localized and advanced prostate cancer in Canada: A lifetime cost 
and quality-adjusted life-year analysis.

Sanyal C(1), Aprikian AG(1)(2), Cury FL(1)(3), Chevalier S(1)(2), Dragomir 
A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)Research Institute of McGill University Health Center, Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada.
(3)Division of Radiation Oncology, McGill University Health Center, Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada.

BACKGROUND: To the authors' knowledge, the literature to date lacks studies 
examining lifetime costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) of prostate 
cancer (PCa) management strategies that integrate localized and advanced 
disease. The objective of the current study was to assess lifetime costs and 
QALYs associated with contemporary PCa management strategies across risk groups 
by integrating localized and advanced disease.
METHODS: The authors' validated Markov chain Monte Carlo model was used to 
predict lifetime direct costs and QALYs. The health states modeled were active 
surveillance, initial treatments (radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy), PCa 
recurrence, PCa recurrence free, metastatic castration-resistant prostate 
cancer, and death (cause specific/other causes). Data regarding treatment 
distribution, state transition probabilities, adverse effects of management 
options, costs, utilities, and disutilities were derived from the published 
literature.
RESULTS: The total cost per patient for the overall cohort increased from 
$18,503 at 5 years to $28,032 and $39,143, respectively, at 10 years and 15 
years. Furthermore, the results indicated the influence of risk group on total 
cost, with the high-risk group accruing the maximum per patient cost followed by 
the intermediate-risk and low-risk groups. Active surveillance was found to 
confer the most QALYs (12.5 years) and was the least costly strategy ($18,452) 
for individuals at low risk. For all risk groups, radical prostatectomy was less 
costly and conferred modestly more QALYs compared with intensity-modulated 
radiotherapy modalities.
CONCLUSIONS: Public health care systems in Canada and elsewhere are operating 
under budget constraints to allocate finite resources. The findings of the 
current study might inform discussions concerning budget planning to provide 
health care services.

© 2016 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.29892
PMID: 26828716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. AIDS Care. 2016 Aug;28(8):1073-8. doi: 10.1080/09540121.2016.1139042. Epub
2016  Feb 1.

Maintaining the continuity of HIV-care records for patients transferring care 
between centers: challenges, workloads, needs and risks.

Gill MJ(1)(2)(3), Ody M(1), Lynch T(1)(4), Jessiman-Perreault L(1), Krentz 
HB(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)a Southern Alberta HIV Clinic, Alberta Health Services , Calgary , Canada.
(2)b Department of Medicine , University of Calgary , Calgary , Alberta , 
Canada.
(3)c Department of Microbiology, Immunology, and Infectious Diseases , 
University of Calgary , Calgary , Canada.
(4)d Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine , University of Calgary , 
Calgary , Canada.

With improved life expectancy, the medical records of HIV-infected patients are 
likely to be transferred repeatedly between HIV caregivers. The challenges, and 
risk for introducing medical error from incomplete record transfers are poorly 
understood. We measured number of requests for record transfer, the workload 
incurred, and explore, using genotypic antiretroviral resistance testing results 
(GART), the potential risk of incomplete records. Using retrospective database 
and chart review, we examined all patients followed at the Southern Alberta 
Clinic between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2015, and determined how many 
patients transferred care into and out our program, the associated requests and 
the workload for record transfer. Using a complete record of all GART tests, the 
potential importance of absent historic records in current treatment decisions 
was analyzed. The annual churn rate was 22 ± 3.4%. We received requests for only 
70% of patient records who had left our care. Median time for receipt of 
incoming medical records was 28 days; average clerical time for processing data 
was 2 hours/record. Of all GART results, 25% exhibited resistance. Of 111 
patients with potentially misleading GART results (i.e., documented historical 
resistance not visible on more recent GART), 34 (30.6%) had moved in from 
elsewhere. Rigorous maintenance of the continuity of the HIV record is not 
universally practiced. Resources, costs and logistic challenges as well as a 
lack of appreciation of risks clearly shown by GART testing, may be relevant 
barriers. Addressing such issues is pressing as aging and transfers of care are 
increasingly common.

DOI: 10.1080/09540121.2016.1139042
PMID: 26829326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. J Mol Med (Berl). 2016 Jun;94(6):695-710. doi: 10.1007/s00109-016-1384-5.
Epub  2016 Feb 1.

15d-Prostaglandin J2 induced reactive oxygen species-mediated apoptosis during 
experimental visceral leishmaniasis.

Vishwakarma P(1)(2), Parmar N(1)(2), Yadav PK(1)(2), Chandrakar P(1)(2), Kar 
S(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Parasitology, CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, Jankipuram 
extension, Sitapur Road, Lucknow, 226031, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(2)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Anusandhan Bhawan, New 
Delhi, India.
(3)Division of Parasitology, CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, Jankipuram 
extension, Sitapur Road, Lucknow, 226031, Uttar Pradesh, India. 
susantakar@cdri.res.in.
(4)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Anusandhan Bhawan, New 
Delhi, India. susantakar@cdri.res.in.

15-Deoxy-delta (12,14)-prostaglandin J2 (15d-PgJ2) is a potent bioactive lipid 
mediator, known to possess several roles in cell regulation and differentiation 
along with antimicrobial efficacy against different bacterial and viral 
infections. In the present study, we investigated the therapeutic efficacy and 
mechanism of action of 15d-PgJ2 in vitro in Leishmania donovani promastigotes 
and infected J774 macrophages, and in vivo in Balb/c mice/golden hamster model 
of experimental visceral leishmaniasis. 15d-PgJ2 effectively killed L. donovani 
promastigotes and amastigotes in vitro with IC50 of 104.6 and 80.09 nM, 
respectively. At 2 mg/kg (mice) and 4 mg/kg (hamster) doses, 15d-PgJ2 decreased 
>90 % spleen and liver parasite burden. It significantly reduced interleukin 
(IL)-10 and transforming growth factor (TGF)-β synthesis in infected macrophages 
and splenocytes. 15d-PgJ2 induced reactive oxygen species (ROS)-dependent 
apoptosis of promastigotes by triggering phosphatidyl serine externalization, 
mitochondrial membrane damage and inducing caspase-like activity. In vitro drug 
interaction studies revealed an indifference to the synergistic association of 
15d-PgJ2 with Miltefosine and Amphotericin-B (Amp-B). Moreover, when combined 
with sub-curative doses of Miltefosine and Amphotericin-B, 15d-PgJ2 resulted in 
>95 % parasite removal. Our results suggested that 15d-PgJ2 induces 
mitochondria-dependent apoptosis of L. donovani and is a good therapeutic 
candidate for adjunct therapy against experimental visceral leishmaniasis.
KEY MESSAGE: 15d-PgJ2 effectively eliminated both promastigotes and amastigotes 
form of L. donovani. 15d-PgJ2 decreased parasite burden from infected mice and 
hamsters with reduced Th2 cytokines. 15d-PgJ2 induced ROS-mediated mitochondrial 
apoptosis of L. donovani promastigotes. 15d-PgJ2 is a good therapeutic candidate 
for adjunct therapy with Miltefosine and Amp-B.

DOI: 10.1007/s00109-016-1384-5
PMID: 26830627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Lancet Oncol. 2016 Mar;17(3):e92. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(16)00069-3. Epub
2016  Jan 29.

Inadvisable breast and prostate cancer screenings in the USA.

Granovetter M.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(16)00069-3
PMID: 26831288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. J Gen Intern Med. 2016 May;31(5):561-72. doi: 10.1007/s11606-015-3580-3.
Epub  2016 Jan 29.

Benefits and Harms of Screening Mammography by Comorbidity and Age: A 
Qualitative Synthesis of Observational Studies and Decision Analyses.

Braithwaite D(1), Walter LC(2), Izano M(3)(4), Kerlikowske K(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California, San 
Francisco, CA, USA. DBraithwaite@epi.ucsf.edu.
(2)Division of Geriatrics, San Francisco VA Medical Center and the University of 
California, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(4)School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA.
(5)Division of General Internal Medicine, VA Medical Center, University of 
California, San Francisco, CA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: We conducted a systematic review to assess the quality and 
limitations of published studies examining benefits and harms of screening 
mammography in relation to comorbidity and age.
METHODS: We searched MEDLINE and EMBASE from January 1980 through June 2013 for 
studies that examined benefits or harms of screening mammography in women aged 
65 years or older in relation to comorbidity. For each study, we extracted data 
regarding setting, design, quality, screening schedule, measure of comorbidity, 
and estimates of benefits and/or harms. We reviewed 1760 titles, identifying 7 
articles that met the inclusion criteria: prospective cohort (two studies), 
retrospective cohort (two studies), and decision analyses (three studies). No 
randomized controlled trials were identified.
RESULTS: At least one measure of life expectancy or reduction in the risk of 
breast cancer death as a marker of benefit was examined in four studies, whereas 
three studies addressed the harms of screening mammography, including 
false-positive results. Both cohort studies and decision analyses showed that 
screening benefits decreased with increasing age and comorbidity burden.
CONCLUSIONS: The limited evidence currently available suggests that, apart from 
older women with severe comorbidity, women 65 and older may experience 
improvements in life expectancy from screening. Given the potential for harm, it 
is unclear whether the magnitude of the benefit is sufficient to warrant regular 
screening. Women, clinicians and policymakers should consider these factors in 
deciding whether continue screening.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-015-3580-3
PMCID: PMC4835373
PMID: 26831305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The funders had no role in the design or conduct 
of the study; collection, management, analysis, or interpretation of the data; 
or preparation, review, or approval of the manuscript. The authors declare that 
they do not have a conflict of interest.


187. RETRACTED ARTICLE

J Am Coll Surg. 2016 Apr;222(4):667-78. doi: 10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2015.12.018. 
Epub 2016 Jan 27.

RETRACTED: Impact of Cooperative Trial and Sociodemographic Variation on 
Adjuvant Radiation Therapy Usage in Elderly Women (≥70 Years) with Stage I, 
Estrogen Receptor-Positive Breast Cancer: Analysis of the National Cancer Data 
Base.

Chu QD(1), Medeiros KL(2), Zhou M(2), Peddi P(3), Wu XC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, New 
Orleans, LA; Feist-Weiller Cancer Center, Louisiana State University Health 
Sciences Center in Shreveport, Shreveport, LA. Electronic address: 
qchu@lsuhsc.edu.
(2)Louisiana Tumor Registry and Department of Epidemiology, Louisiana State 
University Health Sciences Center, New Orleans, LA; School of Public Health, 
Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, New Orleans, LA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, 
New Orleans, LA; Feist-Weiller Cancer Center, Louisiana State University Health 
Sciences Center in Shreveport, Shreveport, LA.

Retraction in
    J Am Coll Surg. 2017 May;224(5):1008.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Surg. 2016 Apr;222(4):678-80.

BACKGROUND: The Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) 9343 trial demonstrated that 
adjuvant radiation therapy (RT) can be omitted in women aged 70 years or older, 
with small, estrogen receptor (ER)+ breast cancer. We postulated that RT usage 
after CALGB's publication should have decreased over time.
STUDY DESIGN: We evaluated a cohort of 205,860 women aged 70 years or older, 
with stage I, ER+/progesterone receptor (PR)+ breast cancer with lumpectomy, 
diagnosed between 1998 and 2012, in the National Cancer Data Base. 
Clinicopathologic and sociodemographic variables were compared between pre-CALGB 
and post-CALGB publication (circa 2004). Univariate and multivariate analysis 
were used.
RESULTS: Radiation therapy usage decreased by only 2.95% after CALGB publication 
(68.71% vs 65.76%; p < 0.0001). Almost one-third of women with short life 
expectancy (≥85 years) received RT in the post-CALGB group. Significant 
predictors (p < 0.01) of lowest RT use include advanced age, increased great 
circle distance, academic research program, East South Central region, rural 
population < 2,500 not adjacent to a metropolitan area, low income level, high 
comorbidity index, small tumor, well-differentiated histology, residual tumor, 
and lack of receipt of anti-hormonal therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The CALGB trial had a minimal impact on the rate of adjuvant RT use 
among elderly women with small, hormone positive breast cancers. Significant 
variation in RT usage exists across sociodemographic strata.

Copyright © 2016 American College of Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2015.12.018
PMID: 26831366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2016 Jun;14(3):245-52. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-016-0224-7.

Methodological Challenges to Economic Evaluations of Vaccines: Is a Common 
Approach Still Possible?

Jit M(1)(2), Hutubessy R(3).

Author information:
(1)Modelling and Economics Unit, Public Health England, 61 Colindale Avenue, 
London, NW9 6BT, UK. mark.jit@phe.gov.uk.
(2)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, London, WC1E 7HT, UK. mark.jit@phe.gov.uk.
(3)Initiative for Vaccine Research, World Health Organization, 20 Avenue Appia, 
1211, Geneva 27, Switzerland.

Economic evaluation of vaccination is a key tool to inform effective spending on 
vaccines. However, many evaluations have been criticised for failing to capture 
features of vaccines which are relevant to decision makers. These include 
broader societal benefits (such as improved educational achievement, economic 
growth and political stability), reduced health disparities, medical innovation, 
reduced hospital beds pressures, greater peace of mind and synergies in economic 
benefits with non-vaccine interventions. Also, the fiscal implications of 
vaccination programmes are not always made explicit. Alternative methodological 
frameworks have been proposed to better capture these benefits. However, any 
broadening of the methodology for economic evaluation must also involve 
evaluations of non-vaccine interventions, and hence may not always benefit 
vaccines given a fixed health-care budget. The scope of an economic evaluation 
must consider the budget from which vaccines are funded, and the 
decision-maker's stated aims for that spending to achieve.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-016-0224-7
PMCID: PMC4871927
PMID: 26832145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Bull Cancer. 2016 Mar;103(3):236-40. doi: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2015.10.021. Epub
 2016 Jan 29.

[Impact of driving restrictions disclosure on quality of life of patients with a 
glial tumor: A prospective study].

[Article in French]

Bergot L(1), Cuchard S(2), Mazeaud S(2), Magro E(3), Seizeur R(3).

Author information:
(1)CHRU de Brest, hôpital de la Cavale-Blanche, service de neurochirurgie, 
boulevard Tanguy-Prigent, 29200 Brest, France. Electronic address: 
Lydie.bergot@chu-brest.fr.
(2)CHRU de Brest, hôpital de la Cavale-Blanche, service de neurochirurgie, 
boulevard Tanguy-Prigent, 29200 Brest, France.
(3)CHRU de Brest, hôpital de la Cavale-Blanche, service de neurochirurgie, 
boulevard Tanguy-Prigent, 29200 Brest, France; LaTIM UMR1101, hôpital Morvan, 
avenue Foch, 29200 Brest, France.

INTRODUCTION: Disclosure of driving restrictions on patients with glial tumors 
is a complex and difficult task. The difficulty of such task lies in the moral 
and ethical conflicts it generates for the patient on one hand and caregivers on 
the other. These aforementioned conflicts impinge upon the patient's quality of 
life which is one of the important aspects of neuro-oncologic care.
PATIENTS AND METHOD: In a prospective survey of 31 patients diagnosed with glial 
tumors, we studied how the patient perceived the disclosure of driving 
restrictions specifically the amount of retained information, and the level of 
distress.
RESULTS: It seems that patients fail to assess the juridical implications of 
driving restrictions. The impact on quality of life as well as psychological and 
social aspects of these restrictions must not be taken lightly especially in 
young patients with low-grade glioma who has a long life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: Therefore, we believe that planning a specific psychological and 
social accompaniment of the patient in relation to driving restrictions is an 
undeniable necessity.

Copyright © 2016 Société Française du Cancer. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2015.10.021
PMID: 26832421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Biol Direct. 2016 Feb 2;11(1):5. doi: 10.1186/s13062-016-0107-8.

A paneukaryotic genomic analysis of the small GTPase RABL2 underscores the 
significance of recurrent gene loss in eukaryote evolution.

Eliáš M(1), Klimeš V(2), Derelle R(3), Petrželková R(4), Tachezy J(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology and Ecology, University of Ostrava, Faculty of Science, 
Chittussiho 10, 710 00, Ostrava, Czech Republic. marek.elias@osu.cz.
(2)Department of Biology and Ecology, University of Ostrava, Faculty of Science, 
Chittussiho 10, 710 00, Ostrava, Czech Republic. thorin0@seznam.cz.
(3)Unité d'Ecologie, Systématique et Evolution, Centre National de la Recherche 
Scientifique UMR 8079, Université Paris-Sud, 91405, Orsay, France. 
romain.derelle@u-psud.fr.
(4)Department of Biology and Ecology, University of Ostrava, Faculty of Science, 
Chittussiho 10, 710 00, Ostrava, Czech Republic. losssina@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Parasitology, Charles University in Prague, Faculty of Science, 
Viničná 7, 128 44, Prague 2, Czech Republic. jan.tachezy@natur.cuni.cz.

BACKGROUND: The cilium (flagellum) is a complex cellular structure inherited 
from the last eukaryotic common ancestor (LECA). A large number of ciliary 
proteins have been characterized in a few model organisms, but their 
evolutionary history often remains unexplored. One such protein is the small 
GTPase RABL2, recently implicated in the assembly of the sperm tail in mammals.
RESULTS: Using the wealth of currently available genome and transcriptome 
sequences, including data from our on-going sequencing projects, we 
systematically analyzed the phylogenetic distribution and evolutionary history 
of RABL2 orthologs. Our dense taxonomic sampling revealed the presence of RABL2 
genes in nearly all major eukaryotic lineages, including small "obscure" taxa 
such as breviates, ancyromonads, malawimonads, jakobids, picozoans, or 
palpitomonads. The phyletic pattern of RABL2 genes indicates that it was present 
already in the LECA. However, some organisms lack RABL2 as a result of secondary 
loss and our present sampling predicts well over 30 such independent events 
during the eukaryote evolution. The distribution of RABL2 genes correlates with 
the presence/absence of cilia: not a single well-established cilium-lacking 
species has retained a RABL2 ortholog. However, several ciliated taxa, most 
notably nematodes, some arthropods and platyhelminths, diplomonads, and ciliated 
subgroups of apicomplexans and embryophytes, lack RABL2 as well, suggesting some 
simplification in their cilium-associated functions. On the other hand, several 
algae currently unknown to form cilia, e.g., the "prasinophytes" of the genus 
Prasinoderma or the ochrophytes Pelagococcus subviridis and Pinguiococcus 
pyrenoidosus, turned out to encode not only RABL2, but also homologs of some 
hallmark ciliary proteins, suggesting the existence of a cryptic flagellated 
stage in their life cycles. We additionally obtained insights into the evolution 
of the RABL2 gene architecture, which seems to have ancestrally consisted of 
eight exons subsequently modified not only by lineage-specific intron loss and 
gain, but also by recurrent loss of the terminal exon encoding a poorly 
conserved C-terminal extension.
CONCLUSIONS: Our comparative analysis supports the notion that RABL2 is an 
ancestral component of the eukaryotic cilium and underscores the still 
underappreciated magnitude of recurrent gene loss, or reductive evolution in 
general, in the history of eukaryotic genomes and cells.

DOI: 10.1186/s13062-016-0107-8
PMCID: PMC4736243
PMID: 26832778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Lifetime Data Anal. 2017 Apr;23(2):254-274. doi: 10.1007/s10985-016-9356-1.
Epub  2016 Feb 1.

Longevity and concentration in survival times: the log-scale-location family of 
failure time models.

Gigliarano C(1), Basellini U(2), Bonetti M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Insubria, Varese, Italy.
(2)Max Planck International Research Network on Aging and European Doctoral 
School of Demography, Rome, Italy.
(3)Bocconi University and Dondena Centre for Research on Social Dynamics and 
Public Policy, Milan, Italy. marco.bonetti@unibocconi.it.

Evidence suggests that the increasing life expectancy levels at birth witnessed 
over the past centuries are associated with a decreasing concentration of the 
survival times. The purpose of this work is to study the relationships that 
exist between longevity and concentration measures for some regression models 
for the evolution of survival. In particular, we study a family of survival 
models that can be used to capture the observed trends in longevity and 
concentration over time. The parametric family of log-scale-location models is 
shown to allow for modeling different trends of expected value and concentration 
of survival times. An extension towards mixture models is also described in 
order to take into account scenarios where a fraction of the population 
experiences short term survival. Some results are also presented for such 
framework. The use of both the log-scale-location family and the mixture model 
is illustrated through an application to period life tables from the Human 
Mortality Database.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-016-9356-1
PMID: 26832911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Drugs Aging. 2016 Feb;33(2):97-107. doi: 10.1007/s40266-015-0341-2.

Targeting Low Disease Activity in Elderly-Onset Rheumatoid Arthritis: Current 
and Future Roles of Biological Disease-Modifying Antirheumatic Drugs.

Sugihara T(1), Harigai M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Rheumatology, Tokyo Metropolitan Geriatric 
Hospital, 35-2 Sakae-cho, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo, 173-0015, Japan.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Pharmacoepidemiology, Institute of 
Rheumatology, Tokyo Women's Medical University, 10-22 Kawada-cho, Shinjuku-ku, 
Tokyo, 162-0054, Japan. harigai.masayoshi@twmu.ac.jp.

Elderly rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is classified into two clinical subsets, 
elderly-onset RA (EORA) and younger-onset elderly RA. With the improvement of 
life expectancy in the general population and advent of the super-aging society, 
the number of patients with EORA is anticipated to increase. Both large and 
small joints are affected initially at onset, and individuals with early EORA 
have higher scores of disease activity and levels of acute-phase reactants than 
those with early younger-onset RA. EORA is a progressive disease similar to 
younger-onset RA. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors are equally or slightly 
less effective in elderly patients than in younger patients with RA, and disease 
duration may have a greater impact on disease outcomes than age. Evidence of 
non-TNF biological disease-modifying antirheumatic drug use in EORA is limited. 
TNF inhibitors may not increase the risk for infection in elderly patients any 
more than methotrexate; however, increasing age is an independent and strong 
risk factor for serious infections in patients with RA. Treatment choice in 
patients with EORA is strongly influenced by comorbidities, especially 
cardiovascular disease, chronic lung disease, and frailty. To prevent 
progression to irreversible geriatric syndromes, non-frail patients with EORA, 
who are aging successfully should undergo intensive treatment using the 
treat-to-target strategy, and pre-frail and frail patients with EORA should be 
treated with the aim of returning to a non-frail or pre-frail stage, 
respectively. An appropriate treatment strategy for EORA and younger-onset 
elderly RA should be developed in the next decade using a multi-disciplinary 
approach.

DOI: 10.1007/s40266-015-0341-2
PMCID: PMC4756046
PMID: 26833350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Clin Med (Lond). 2016 Feb;16(1):42-51. doi: 10.7861/clinmedicine.16-1-42.

Therapeutic advances in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

Fraser E(1), Hoyles RK(2).

Author information:
(1)Oxford Interstitial Lung Disease Service, Churchill Hospital, Oxford, UK.
(2)Oxford Interstitial Lung Disease Service, Churchill Hospital, Oxford, UK 
rachel.hoyles@ouh.nhs.uk.

Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is characterised by progressive accumulation 
of scar tissue in the lung and is associated with a median life expectancy of 
2-4 years. Until recently, treatment options were limited, focusing on 
ineffective anti-inflammatory therapy, palliation, transplant or trial 
recruitment. Significant recent advances in the field have led to two novel 
anti-fibrotic agents, pirfenidone and nintedanib, which have been shown to 
significantly slow disease progression in IPF. This article outlines the 
approach to management of IPF, the role of specialist centres and specialist 
interstitial lung disease multidisciplinary review, and explores both the trial 
evidence and practical considerations in the use of these anti-fibrotic agents.

© Royal College of Physicians 2016. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.7861/clinmedicine.16-1-42
PMCID: PMC4954329
PMID: 26833513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. BJOG. 2016 Jun;123(7):1213-20. doi: 10.1111/1471-0528.13856. Epub 2016 Feb
1.

Cost-effectiveness of a pro-active approach of urinary incontinence in women.

Vermeulen KM(1), Visser E(2), Messelink EJ(3), Schram AJ(4), Berger MY(2), de 
Bock GH(1), Dekker JH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of Groningen, University Medical 
Centre Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of General Practice, University of Groningen, University Medical 
Centre Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Urology, University of Groningen, University Medical Centre 
Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Groningen, University 
Medical Centre Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.

Comment in
    BJOG. 2016 Jun;123(7):1221.
    BJOG. 2016 Dec;123(13):2229-2230.
    BJOG. 2016 Dec;123(13):2229.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of actively 
encouraging older community-dwelling women with urinary incontinence to be 
diagnosed and treated.
DESIGN: The study was designed as cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analyses 
alongside a cluster randomised controlled trial. Analyses were performed from a 
societal perspective. Direct medical and nonmedical costs were taken into 
account and valued according to the standard Dutch guidelines for economic 
evaluations.
SETTING: Primary care.
POPULATION: Study participants were 350 community-dwelling women 55 years or 
older with urinary incontinence.
METHODS: Women in the intervention group were invited for diagnostic testing and 
treatment. The control group received usual care according to the Dutch 
guideline on urinary incontinence. Follow-up period was 12 months.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incontinence Impact Adjusted Life Years (IIALY), Quality 
Adjusted Life Years (QALY) and incremental costs calculated per IIALY and per 
QALY gained.
RESULTS: Costs per extra life year without impact on daily life from urinary 
incontinence amounted to €5179 (95% CI -17 323 to 36 260). Costs per QALY 
amounted to €23 907 (95% CI -124 849 to 121 849). Assuming a ceiling ratio of 
€20 000, the probability that the intervention was cost-effective based on 
IIALYs was 91% and 46% based on QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: Improvements in severity of incontinence in older 
community-dwelling women can be achieved against reasonable costs, with an 
improvement of symptom-specific QALYs. Findings support an active role of 
primary care physicians towards women who hesitate to ask for help for urinary 
incontinence.
TWEETABLE ABSTRACT: Encouraging women with urinary incontinence to be treated, 
improves symptoms and QOL against reasonable costs.

© 2016 Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists.

DOI: 10.1111/1471-0528.13856
PMID: 26834046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Int J Ment Health. 2015;44(3):215-230. doi: 10.1080/00207411.2015.1035081.
Epub  2015 Aug 7.

An approach to mental health in low and middle income countries: a case example 
from urban India.

Maitra S(1), Brault MA(2), Schensul SL(3), Schensul JJ(4), Nastasi BK(5), Verma 
RK(6), Burleson JA(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health and Mental Health, School of Social Work, Tata Institute of 
Social Sciences, Mumbai, India.
(2)Department of Anthropology, University of Connecticut, 354 Mansfield Road, 
Unit 2176, Storrs, CT 06269.
(3)Department of Community Medicine and Health Care, University of Connecticut 
Health Center, 263 Farmington Avenue, Farmington, CT 06030.
(4)Institute for Community Research, Hartford, CT.
(5)Department of Psychology, 2007 Percival Stern Hall, 6400 Freret St., Tulane 
University New Orleans, LA 70118.
(6)International Center for Research on Women (ICRW), C-59, South Extension 
Part-II, New Delhi-110049.

Women in low and middle income countries (LMICs) facing poverty, challenging 
living conditions and gender inequality often express their emotional 
difficulties through physical health concerns and seek care at primary health 
facilities. However, primary care providers in LMICs only treat the physical 
health symptoms and lack appropriate services to address women's mental health 
problems. This paper, presents data from the counseling component of a 
multilevel, research and intervention project in a low income community in 
Mumbai, India whose objective was to improve sexual health and reduce HIV/STI 
risk among married women. Qualitative data from counselor notes shows that poor 
mental health, associated with negative and challenging life situations, is most 
often expressed by women as gynecological concerns through the culturally-based 
syndrome of tenshun. A path analysis was conducted on baseline quantitative data 
that confirmed the relationships between sources of tenshum, emotional status 
and symptoms of common mental disorders (CMDs). Based on these findings, the 
authors propose a need for culturally appropriate primary care services for 
LMICs that would integrate mental and physical health. This approach would 
reduce mental health morbidity among women through early intervention and 
prevention of the development of CMDs.

DOI: 10.1080/00207411.2015.1035081
PMCID: PMC4731031
PMID: 26834278


196. J Phys Ther Sci. 2015 Dec;27(12):3619-22. doi: 10.1589/jpts.27.3619. Epub
2015  Dec 28.

Effects of shoulder stabilization exercise on pain and function in patients with 
neck pain.

Lee Y(1), Shin MM(2), Lee W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Sahmyook University, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of English, Sahmyook University, Republic of Korea.

[Purpose] The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of shoulder 
stability exercise on pain and function in neck pain patients. [Subjects] The 
study design consisted of a shoulder stability exercise group and a control 
group. [Methods] The effects of the therapies were evaluated using a visual 
analog scale of pain, a pressure pain threshold, neck disability index, cervical 
range of motion, and a closed kinetic chain test. Each group received treatment 
five times per week for 4 weeks. [Results] Pain levels showed no significant 
differences between groups, while pain threshold in all muscles, showed 
significant increases for both control groups. Neck disability significantly 
decreased for both groups and the differences between the groups were 
statistically significant. Ranges of motion and limb stability were measured 
before and after the exercise period. Flexion, extension, and right rotation 
were not significantly different between groups. The results showed no 
significant differences in shoulder stability between the groups. [Conclusion] 
The use of this exercise should have pronounced effects on pain reduction and 
functional improvement and should also improve the quality of life in patients 
with neck pain.

DOI: 10.1589/jpts.27.3619
PMCID: PMC4713756
PMID: 26834317


197. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2016 Jan 19;6:193. doi:
10.3389/fendo.2015.00193.  eCollection 2015.

Fibroblast Growth Factor Signaling in Metabolic Regulation.

Nies VJ(1), Sancar G(2), Liu W(1), van Zutphen T(1), Struik D(1), Yu RT(2), 
Atkins AR(2), Evans RM(2), Jonker JW(1), Downes MR(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Liver, Digestive and Metabolic Diseases, Department of Pediatrics, 
University Medical Center Groningen, University of Groningen , Groningen , 
Netherlands.
(2)Gene Expression Laboratory, Salk Institute for Biological Studies , La Jolla, 
CA , USA.

The prevalence of obesity is a growing health problem. Obesity is strongly 
associated with several comorbidities, such as non-alcoholic fatty liver 
disease, certain cancers, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes, which all 
reduce life expectancy and life quality. Several drugs have been put forward in 
order to treat these diseases, but many of them have detrimental side effects. 
The unexpected role of the family of fibroblast growth factors in the regulation 
of energy metabolism provides new approaches to the treatment of metabolic 
diseases and offers a valuable tool to gain more insight into metabolic 
regulation. The known beneficial effects of FGF19 and FGF21 on metabolism, 
together with recently discovered similar effects of FGF1 suggest that FGFs and 
their derivatives carry great potential as novel therapeutics to treat metabolic 
conditions. To facilitate the development of new therapies with improved 
targeting and minimal side effects, a better understanding of the molecular 
mechanism of action of FGFs is needed. In this review, we will discuss what is 
currently known about the physiological roles of FGF signaling in tissues 
important for metabolic homeostasis. In addition, we will discuss current 
concepts regarding their pharmacological properties and effector tissues in the 
context of metabolic disease. Also, the recent progress in the development of 
FGF variants will be reviewed. Our goal is to provide a comprehensive overview 
of the current concepts and consensuses regarding FGF signaling in metabolic 
health and disease and to provide starting points for the development of 
FGF-based therapies against metabolic conditions.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2015.00193
PMCID: PMC4718082
PMID: 26834701


198. Front Genet. 2016 Jan 20;6:353. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2015.00353. eCollection
2015.

Great Desire for Extended Life and Health amongst the American Public.

Donner Y(1), Fortney K(2), Calimport SR(3), Pfleger K(4), Shah M(5), 
Betts-LaCroix J(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, Stanford University Stanford, CA, USA.
(2)Department of Developmental Biology, Stanford University Stanford, CA, USA.
(3)School of Life and Health Sciences, Aston University Birmingham, UK.
(4)Independent Researcher San Francisco, CA, USA.
(5)Health Extension Foundation Seattle, WA, USA.

People want to live long, healthy lives. Previous surveys suggest very limited 
interest in much longer lifespans, but we show that stipulating good health 
changes responses to favor longer lives by an order of magnitude. Advances in 
aging research hold out hope for greatly slowed aging with associated good 
health. Understanding the public's desires correctly is important to avoid 
misallocation of resources for research.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2015.00353
PMCID: PMC4718974
PMID: 26834780


199. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Skelet Muscle. 2016 Jan 31;6:7. doi: 10.1186/s13395-016-0075-9. eCollection 
2016.

Exercise-induced mitochondrial p53 repairs mtDNA mutations in mutator mice.

Safdar A(1), Khrapko K(2), Flynn JM(3), Saleem A(4), De Lisio M(5), Johnston 
AP(5), Kratysberg Y(2), Samjoo IA(6), Kitaoka Y(4), Ogborn DI(6), Little JP(7), 
Raha S(4), Parise G(8), Akhtar M(9), Hettinga BP(4), Rowe GC(10), Arany Z(11), 
Prolla TA(12), Tarnopolsky MA(13).

Author information:
(1)Department of Kinesiology, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON L8N 3Z5 Canada ; 
Department of Pediatrics, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON L8N 3Z5 Canada ; 
Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON L8N 3Z5 Canada.
(2)Northeastern University, Boston, MA 02115 USA.
(3)Buck Institute for Research on Aging, Novato, CA 94945 USA.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON L8N 3Z5 Canada.
(5)Department of Kinesiology, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON L8N 3Z5 Canada.
(6)Department of Medical Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON L8N 3Z5 
Canada.
(7)School of Health and Exercise Sciences, University of British Columbia 
Okanagan, Kelowna, BC V1V 1V7 Canada.
(8)Department of Kinesiology, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON L8N 3Z5 Canada ; 
Department of Medical Physics & Applied Radiation Sciences, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, ON L8N 3Z5 Canada.
(9)Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON L8N 3Z5 Canada.
(10)Division of Cardiovascular Disease, University of Alabama, Birmingham, AL 
35294 USA.
(11)Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 
19104 USA.
(12)Departments of Genetics, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53706 USA ; 
Departments of Medical Genetics, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53706 USA.
(13)Department of Pediatrics, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON L8N 3Z5 Canada ; 
Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON L8N 3Z5 Canada.

Retraction in
    Skelet Muscle. 2021 Mar 30;11(1):8.

BACKGROUND: Human genetic disorders and transgenic mouse models have shown that 
mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations and telomere dysfunction instigate the aging 
process. Epidemiologically, exercise is associated with greater life expectancy 
and reduced risk of chronic diseases. While the beneficial effects of exercise 
are well established, the molecular mechanisms instigating these observations 
remain unclear.
RESULTS: Endurance exercise reduces mtDNA mutation burden, alleviates 
multisystem pathology, and increases lifespan of the mutator mice, with 
proofreading deficient mitochondrial polymerase gamma (POLG1). We report 
evidence for a POLG1-independent mtDNA repair pathway mediated by exercise, a 
surprising notion as POLG1 is canonically considered to be the sole mtDNA repair 
enzyme. Here, we show that the tumor suppressor protein p53 translocates to 
mitochondria and facilitates mtDNA mutation repair and mitochondrial biogenesis 
in response to endurance exercise. Indeed, in mutator mice with muscle-specific 
deletion of p53, exercise failed to prevent mtDNA mutations, induce 
mitochondrial biogenesis, preserve mitochondrial morphology, reverse sarcopenia, 
or mitigate premature mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data establish a new role for p53 in exercise-mediated 
maintenance of the mtDNA genome and present mitochondrially targeted p53 as a 
novel therapeutic modality for diseases of mitochondrial etiology.

DOI: 10.1186/s13395-016-0075-9
PMCID: PMC4733510
PMID: 26834962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Int J Endocr Oncol. 2016;3(1):53-66. doi: 10.2217/ije.15.29. Epub 2016 Jan
18.

Imaging in multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1: recent studies show enhanced 
sensitivities but increased controversies.

Ito T(1), Jensen RT(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine & Bioregulatory Science, Graduate School of Medical 
Sciences, Kyushu University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, 
Japan.
(2)Digestive Diseases Branch, NIDDK, NIH, Bethesda, MD 20817, USA.

In multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) patients, a number of recent 
studies compare the ability of different, new imaging modalities to existing 
modalities to localize the important neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) that 
contribute to their decreased life expectancy (pancreatic NETs [pNETs] and 
thymic carcinoids). These included the use of 68Ga-DOTATOC-PET/CT, endoscopic 
ultrasound and MRI. The current paper analyzes these results in light of current 
guidelines and controversies involved in the treatment/management of MEN1 
patients. Particular attention is paid to results in these studies with thymic 
carcinoids and nonfunctional pNETs/gastrinomas, which recent studies show are 
particularly important in determining long-term survival. These studies show a 
number of promising imaging results but also raise a number of controversies, 
which will need to be addressed both in their use initially and for serial 
studies in these patients.

DOI: 10.2217/ije.15.29
PMCID: PMC4728712
PMID: 26834963

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests disclosure The authors have 
no other relevant affiliations or financial involvement with any organization or 
entity with a financial interest in or financial conflict with the subject 
matter or materials discussed in the manuscript apart from those disclosed. No 
writing assistance was utilized in the production of this manuscript.


201. Int J Esthet Dent. 2016 Spring;11(1):82-97.

Fatigue resistance and crack propensity of novel "super-closed" sandwich 
composite resin restorations in large MOD defects.

Magne P, Silva S, Andrada Md, Maia H.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the influence of conventional glass ionomer cement (GIC) 
vs resin-modified GIC (RMGIC) as a base material for novel, super-closed 
sandwich restorations (SCSR) and its effect on shrinkage-induced crack 
propensity and in vitro accelerated fatigue resistance.
METHODS: A standardized MOD slottype tooth preparation was applied to 30 
extracted maxillary molars (5 mm depth/5 mm buccolingual width). A modified 
sandwich restoration was used, in which the enamel/dentin bonding agent was 
applied first (Optibond FL, Kerr), followed by a Ketac Molar (3M ESPE)(group KM, 
n = 15) or Fuji II LC (GC) (group FJ, n = 15) base, leaving 2 mm for composite 
