non-cardiologists to add FEEL to the FAST exam. As a result, it conforms to 
actual resuscitation guidelines. To perform the FEEL procedure and the subcostal 
window, a specific training seems to bemandatory. The aim of this paper is to 
set special emphasis on the use of the subcostal window.

DOI: 10.1007/s00068-009-9093-1
PMID: 26815049


137. PLoS One. 2016 Jan 27;11(1):e0147816. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0147816. 
eCollection 2016.

DNMT1 and HDAC2 Cooperate to Facilitate Aberrant Promoter Methylation in 
Inorganic Phosphate-Induced Endothelial-Mesenchymal Transition.

Tan X(1)(2), Xu X(1), Zeisberg M(2)(3), Zeisberg EM(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology and Pneumology, Göttingen University Medical Center, 
Georg August University, Göttingen, Germany.
(2)Department of Nephrology and Rheumatology, Göttingen University Medical 
Center, Georg August University, Göttingen, Germany.
(3)German Center for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Göttingen, Germany.

While phosphorus in the form of inorganic or organic phosphate is critically 
involved in most cellular functions, high plasma levels of inorganic phosphate 
levels have emerged as independent risk factor for cardiac fibrosis, 
cardiovascular morbidity and decreased life-expectancy. While the link of high 
phosphate and cardiovascular disease is commonly explained by direct cellular 
effects of phospho-regulatory hormones, we here explored the possibility of 
inorganic phosphate directly eliciting biological responses in cells. We 
demonstrate that human coronary endothelial cells (HCAEC) undergo an 
endothelial-mesenchymal transition (EndMT) when exposed to high phosphate. We 
further demonstrate that such EndMT is initiated by recruitment of aberrantly 
phosphorylated DNMT1 to the RASAL1 CpG island promoter by HDAC2, causing 
aberrant promoter methylation and transcriptional suppression, ultimately 
leading to increased Ras-GTP activity and activation of common EndMT regulators 
Twist and Snail. Our studies provide a novel aspect for known adverse effects of 
high phosphate levels, as eukaryotic cells are commonly believed to have lost 
phosphate-sensing mechanisms of prokaryotes during evolution, rendering them 
insensitive to extracellular inorganic orthophosphate. In addition, our studies 
provide novel insights into the mechanisms underlying specific targeting of 
select genes in context of fibrogenesis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0147816
PMCID: PMC4729486
PMID: 26815200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


138. Cien Saude Colet. 2016 Jan;21(1):37-44. doi:
10.1590/1413-81232015211.09472015.

Years of life lost (Yll) attributable to alcohol consumption in Mexico City.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Pérez-Pérez E(1), Cruz-López L(1), Hernández-Llanes NF(1), Gallegos-Cari A(1), 
Camacho-Solís RE(1), Mendoza-Meléndez MÁ(1).

Author information:
(1)Dirección de Investigación y Evaluación, Instituto para la Atención y 
Prevención de las Adicciones en la Ciudad de México, Ciudad de México, DF, 
México, mmendozam@df.gob.mx.

The aim of this study was to estimate the YLL attributable to alcohol 
consumption in Mexico City from 2006 - 2012. Vital statistics on mortality 
attributable to alcohol consumption from the INEGI (Instituto Nacional de 
Estadística y Geografía) were used to determine YLL as well as the average age 
of death in relation to different age ranges by sex. A total estimate of 168,607 
YLL was obtained, with an average loss of 18.32 years being observed for men and 
17.54 years for women. Men accounted for a higher proportion of the YLL than 
women. According to the ICD-10 (Tenth Revision of International Classification 
of Diseases), liver disease attributable to alcohol consumption was found to be 
responsible for more than 80% of the total YLL. There was a cyclical trend in 
YLL from 2006 to 2012. The YLL attributable to alcohol suggest that alcohol 
consumption is a public health problem that involves losses in productivity and 
economic costs, and the decline in YLL could be explained by the decrease in 
income caused by the economic crisis of 2008, just as the increase could be 
explained by economic improvement in 2012.

DOI: 10.1590/1413-81232015211.09472015
PMID: 26816161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. J Diabetes Investig. 2016 Jan;7(1):100-8. doi: 10.1111/jdi.12361. Epub 2015
May  18.

Efficacy and safety of 40 mg or 60 mg duloxetine in Japanese adults with 
diabetic neuropathic pain: Results from a randomized, 52-week, open-label study.

Yasuda H(1), Hotta N(2), Kasuga M(3), Kashiwagi A(4), Kawamori R(5), Yamada 
T(6), Baba Y(6), Alev L(7), Nakajo K(7).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Public Health Nursing Shiga University of Medical Science Shiga 
Japan.
(2)Japan Labor Health and Welfare Organization Chubu Rosai Hospital Nagoya 
Japan.
(3)Research Institute National Center for Global Health and Medicine Tokyo 
Japan.
(4)Kusatsu General Hospital Shiga Japan.
(5)Department of Medicine, Metabolism & Endocrinology Juntendo University 
Graduate School of Medicine Tokyo Japan.
(6)Shionogi & Co., Ltd. Osaka Japan.
(7)Lilly Research Laboratories Eli Lilly Japan K.K. Kobe Japan.

INTRODUCTION: To examine the long-term efficacy and safety of duloxetine in the 
treatment of Japanese patients with diabetic neuropathic pain, we carried out a 
52-week, randomized, open-label extension of a 12-week, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled study.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Japanese adults with diabetic neuropathic pain who 
completed the double-blind study were eligible for this long-term study, carried 
out at 71 sites in Japan (March 2008 to March 2010). Participants (n = 258) were 
re-randomized (1:1) to 40 mg/day or 60 mg/day duloxetine. Pain (Brief Pain 
Inventory severity and interference), quality of life (Patient's Global 
Impression of Improvement), and safety (primary outcome; adverse events, vital 
signs, metabolic measures) were measured.
RESULTS: Significant (P < 0.0001) and sustained improvements (change ± standard 
deviation; n = 257) were observed in Brief Pain Inventory severity (average pain 
score -2.1 ± 1.7). Improvements were also seen in Brief Pain Inventory 
interference (mean of subscores -0.96 ± 1.52) and Patient's Global Impression of 
Improvement (-0.9 ± 1.1) scores; these scores decreased significantly 
(P < 0.0001) during the long-term study. Frequently reported adverse events 
included somnolence (13.6%), constipation (13.2%) and nausea (10.5%). Increases 
were observed in plasma glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin and total cholesterol 
levels, and in bodyweight and heart rate; however, none of these were clinically 
meaningful. Overall, there were no clinically significant safety concerns.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first publication of a long-term study carried out in 
Asia with an entirely Japanese patient population to suggest that long-term 
duloxetine therapy for diabetic neuropathic pain is effective and has an 
acceptable safety profile.

DOI: 10.1111/jdi.12361
PMCID: PMC4718094
PMID: 26816607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Transl Androl Urol. 2015 Jun;4(3):310-25. doi: 
10.3978/j.issn.2223-4683.2015.04.07.

Sequence of treatment in locally advanced and metastatic renal cell carcinoma.

Fischer S(1), Gillessen S(1), Rothermundt C(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Oncology/Haematology, Kantonsspital St. Gallen, 9007 St. Gallen, 
Switzerland.

The spectrum of drugs that have shown activity in advanced or metastatic renal 
cell carcinoma (RCC) has led to a debate on the optimal sequence of treatments. 
There is agreement on recommending targeted agents as the standard of care in 
this disease. Uncertainty, however, remains on the best first-line drug choice. 
Physicians and patients may select sunitinib, bevacizumab in combination with 
interferon-alpha (IFN-α), pazopanib, or-in poor risk patients-temsirolimus. 
There are also a variety of therapies with proven efficacy on hand in the 
second-line setting: sorafenib, pazopanib, axitinib, and everolimus. While most 
randomized RCC trials assessed progression free survival (PFS) as primary 
endpoint, some agents were shown to improve median overall survival (OS), and 
given in sequence they have extended the life expectancy of RCC patients from 13 
months in the cytokine era to over 30 months. Despite the progress made, there 
are sobering aspects to the oncologic success story in RCC, as the new 
treatments do not obtain an objective response or disease stabilization (SD) in 
all patients. There are also as yet no predictors to select patients who might 
benefit and those who are primary resistant to specific drugs, and ultimately 
almost all patients will experience disease progression. Bearing inevitable 
treatment failure in mind, availability of further drugs and switching therapy 
while the patient is in a condition to continue pharmacotherapy is essential. Of 
note, depending on the setting, only 33-59% of patients receive second-line 
treatment. In this review we present data on first-, second-, and third-line 
treatment in RCC, and discuss the difficulties in their interpretation in the 
context of treatment sequence. We summarize biological aspects and discuss 
mechanisms of resistance to anti-angiogenic therapy and their implications for 
treatment selection.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2223-4683.2015.04.07
PMCID: PMC4708238
PMID: 26816832

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: S Fischer, None. S 
Gillessen: Bayer, Consultant Scientific Advisory Board and Speakers Bureau 
(uncompensated); Novartis, Consultant Scientific Advisory Board; Pfizer, 
Consultant Scientific Advisory Board. C Rothermundt: Pfizer, Consultant 
Scientific Advisory Board; GSK, Honoraria; Novartis, Honoraria.


141. Ann Coloproctol. 2015 Dec;31(6):228-34. doi: 10.3393/ac.2015.31.6.228. Epub
2015  Dec 31.

Age Over 80 is a Possible Risk Factor for Postoperative Morbidity After a 
Laparoscopic Resection of Colorectal Cancer.

Kang T(1), Kim HO(1), Kim H(1), Chun HK(1), Han WK(1), Jung KU(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University of 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: With extended life expectancy, the mean age of patients at the time of 
diagnosis of colorectal cancer and its treatment, including radical resection, 
is increasing gradually. We aimed to evaluate the impact of age on postoperative 
clinical outcomes after a laparoscopic resection of colorectal cancers.
METHODS: This is a retrospective review of prospectively collected data. 
Patients with primary colorectal malignancies or premalignant lesions who 
underwent laparoscopic colectomies between January 2009 and April 2013 were 
identified. Patients were divided into 6 groups by age using 70, 75, and 80 
years as cutoffs: younger than 70, 70 or older, younger than 75, 75 or older, 
younger than 80, and 80 or older. Demographics, pathological parameters, and 
postoperative clinical outcomes, including postoperative morbidity, were 
compared between the younger and the older age groups.
RESULTS: All 578 patients underwent a laparoscopic colorectal resection. The 
overall postoperative complication rate was 21.1% (n = 122). There were 4 cases 
of operative mortality (0.7%). Postoperative complication rates were 
consistently higher in the older groups at all three cutoffs; however, only the 
comparison with a cutoff at 80 years showed a statistically significant 
difference between the younger and the older groups.
CONCLUSION: Age over 80 is a possible risk factor for postoperative morbidity 
after a laparoscopic resection of colorectal cancer.

DOI: 10.3393/ac.2015.31.6.228
PMCID: PMC4724704
PMID: 26817018

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: No potential conflict of 
interest relevant to this article was reported.


142. BMC Evol Biol. 2016 Jan 27;16:25. doi: 10.1186/s12862-016-0590-7.

Genomic variations and distinct evolutionary rate of rare alleles in Arabidopsis 
thaliana.

Memon S(1)(2), Jia X(3), Gu L(4), Zhang X(5).

Author information:
(1)School of life Sciences, Nanjing University, Nanjing, 210093, China. 
sheeba.memon786@gmail.com.
(2)Lecturer, Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics, Sindh Agriculture 
University, Tando Jam, Hyderabad, 70060, Pakistan. sheeba.memon786@gmail.com.
(3)School of life Sciences, Nanjing University, Nanjing, 210093, China. 
jiaxianqing2010@126.com.
(4)School of life Sciences, Nanjing University, Nanjing, 210093, China. 
longjianggu@gmail.com.
(5)School of life Sciences, Nanjing University, Nanjing, 210093, China. 
xiaohuizhang@nju.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: The variation rate in genomic regions associated with different 
alleles, impacts to distinct evolutionary patterns involving rare alleles. The 
rare alleles bias towards genome-wide association studies (GWASs), aim to detect 
different variants at genomic loci associated with single-nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs) inclined to produce different haplotypes. Here, we 
sequenced Arabidopsis thaliana and compared its coding and non-coding genomic 
regions with its closest outgroup relative, Arabidopsis lyrta, which accounted 
for the ancestral misinference. The use of genome-wide SNPs interpret the 
genetic architecture of rare alleles in Arabidopsis thaliana, elucidating a 
significant departure from a neutral evolutionary model and the pattern of 
polymorphisms around a selected locus will exclusively influence natural 
selection.
RESULTS: We found 23.4% of the rare alleles existing randomly in the genome. 
Notably, in our results significant differences (P < 0.01) were estimated in the 
relative rates between rare versus intermediate alleles, between fixed versus 
non-fixed mutations, and between type I versus type II rare-mutations by using 
the χ (2)-test. However, the rare alleles generating negative values of Tajima's 
D suggest that they generated under selective sweeps. Relative to polymorphic 
sites including SNPs, 67.5% of the fixed mutations were attributed, indicating 
major contributors to speciation. Substantially, an evolution occurred in the 
rare allele that was 1.42-times faster than that in a major haplotype.
CONCLUSION: Our results interpret that rare alleles fits a random occurrence 
model, indicating that rare alleles occur at any locus in a genome and in any 
accession in a species. Based on the higher relative rate of derived to ancient 
mutations and higher average D xy, we conclude that rare alleles evolve faster 
than the higher frequency alleles. The rapid evolution of rare alleles indicates 
that they must have been newly generated with fixed mutations, compared with the 
other alleles. Eventually, PCR and sequencing results, in the flanking regions 
of rare allele loci confirm that they are of short extension, indicating the 
absence of a genome-wide pattern for a rare haplotype. The indel-associated 
model for rare alleles assumes that indel-associated mutations only occur in an 
indel heterozygote.

DOI: 10.1186/s12862-016-0590-7
PMCID: PMC4728917
PMID: 26817829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2016 Aug;14(4):401-407. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-015-0220-3.

Governments Need Better Guidance to Maximise Value for Money: The Case of 
Australia's Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee.

Carter D(1), Vogan A(2), Haji Ali Afzali H(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, 5005, 
Australia. drew.carter@adelaide.edu.au.
(2)Adelaide Health Technology Assessment, School of Public Health, The 
University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, 5005, Australia.
(3)School of Public Health, The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, 5005, 
Australia.

In Australia, the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee (PBAC) makes 
recommendations to the Minister for Health on which pharmaceuticals should be 
subsidised. Given the implications of PBAC recommendations for government 
finances and population health, PBAC is required to provide advice primarily on 
the basis of value for money. The aim of this article is twofold: to describe 
some major limitations of the current PBAC decision-making process in relation 
to its implicit aim of maximising value for money; and to suggest what might be 
done toward overcoming these limitations. This should also offer lessons for the 
many decision-making bodies around the world that are similar to PBAC. The 
current PBAC decision-making process is limited in two important respects. 
First, it features the use of an implicit incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) threshold that may not reflect the opportunity cost of funding a new 
technology, with unknown and possibly negative consequences for population 
health. Second, the process does not feature a means of systematically assessing 
how a technology may be of greater or lesser value in light of factors that are 
not captured by standard measures of cost effectiveness, but which are 
nonetheless important, particularly to the Australian community. Overcoming 
these limitations would mean that PBAC could be more confident of maximising 
value for money when making funding decisions.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-015-0220-3
PMID: 26818196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. JAMA Psychiatry. 2016 Mar;73(3):268-274. doi:
10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2015.3105.

Mortality Among Persons With Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder in Denmark.

Meier SM(1)(2)(3), Mattheisen M(2)(4), Mors O(2)(5), Schendel DE(1)(2)(6), 
Mortensen PB(1)(2)(7), Plessen KJ(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Register-Based Research, Aarhus University, Aarhus V, 
Denmark.
(2)Lundbeck Foundation Initiative for Integrative Psychiatric Research, Aarhus, 
Denmark.
(3)Child and Adolescent Mental Health Centre-Mental Health Services Capital 
Region, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Department of Biomedicine, Aarhus University, Aarhus C, Denmark.
(5)Research Department P, Aarhus University Hospital, Risskov, Aarhus, Denmark.
(6)Department of Public Health, Section of Epidemiology, Aarhus University, 
Aarhus C, Denmark.
(7)Centre for Integrated Register-Based Research, Aarhus University, Aarhus C, 
Denmark.

Erratum in
    JAMA Psychiatry. 2018 Jan 1;75(1):104.

IMPORTANCE: Several mental disorders have consistently been found to be 
associated with decreased life expectancy, but little is known about whether 
this is also the case for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether persons who receive a diagnosis of OCD are at 
increased risk of death.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Using data from Danish registers, we 
conducted a nationwide prospective cohort study with 30 million person-years of 
follow-up. The data were collected from Danish longitudinal registers. A total 
of 3 million people born between 1955 and 2006 were followed up from January 1, 
2002, through December 31, 2011. During this period, 27,236 people died. The 
data were analyzed primarily in June 2015.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: We estimated mortality rate ratios (MRRs), adjusted 
for calendar year, age, sex, maternal and paternal age, place of residence at 
birth, and somatic comorbidities, to compare persons with OCT with persons 
without OCD.
RESULTS: Of 10,155 persons with OCD (5935 women and 4220 men with a mean [SD] 
age of 29.1 [11.3] years who contributed a total of 54,937 person-years of 
observation), 110 (1.1%) died during the average follow-up of 9.7 years. The 
risk of death by natural or unnatural causes was significantly higher among 
persons with OCD (MRR, 1.68 [95% CI, 1.31-2.12] for natural causes; MRR, 2.61 
[95% CI, 1.91-3.47] for unnatural causes) than among the general population. 
After the exclusion of persons with comorbid anxiety disorders, depression, or 
substance use disorders, OCD was still associated with increased mortality risk 
(MRR, 1.88 [95% CI, 1.27-2.67]).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The presence of OCD was associated with a 
significantly increased mortality risk. Comorbid anxiety disorders, depression, 
or substance use disorders further increased the risk. However, after adjusting 
for these and somatic comorbidities, we found that the mortality risk remained 
significantly increased among persons with OCD.

DOI: 10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2015.3105
PMCID: PMC5082974
PMID: 26818216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: None reported.


145. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2016 Feb;137(2):587-593. doi: 
10.1097/01.prs.0000475791.31361.9a.

Facial Fractures in the Aging Population.

Atisha DM(1), Burr TVR, Allori AC, Puscas L, Erdmann D, Marcus JR.

Author information:
(1)Tampa, Fla.; and Durham, N.C. From the Division of Plastic and Reconstructive 
Surgery, Department of Surgery, Morsani College of Medicine, University of South 
Florida; and the Divisions of Plastic, Reconstructive, Oral and Maxillofacial 
Surgery and Otolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, Department of Surgery, 
Duke University Medical Center.

BACKGROUND: As the U.S. population ages and life expectancy increases, the 
number of elderly patients seeking trauma care and treatment for facial 
fractures will increase. Understanding age-related differences in the pattern, 
cause, and management of these fractures is essential for improving care.
METHODS: A retrospective review of adults presenting to a Level I trauma center 
was performed to evaluate age-related differences in facial fractures. 
Descriptive statistics were used to compare fracture number, type, cause of 
injury, management, and adverse events between elderly (older than 64 years) and 
younger cohorts (aged 18 to 64 years). Logistic regression was used to evaluate 
the effect of age on fracture type while controlling for potential confounding 
variables.
RESULTS: Two thousand twenty-three adult patients sustained a facial fracture 
from 2001 to 2011. Two hundred nine patients were elderly and 1814 were younger. 
Regarding cause of injury, older patients were more likely to fall and younger 
patients were more likely to be injured through assaults, motor vehicle 
collisions, or sports (p < 0.0001). Elderly patients sustained a higher 
incidence of maxillary (16.3 percent versus 11.4 percent; p = 0.0401), nasal 
(54.1 percent versus 45.3 percent; p = 0.0156), and orbital floor fractures 
(28.2 percent versus 18.1 percent; p = 0.004) and a lower incidence of mandible 
fractures (10.1 percent versus 21.3 percent; p = 0.0001). The elderly had 
significantly less operative intervention (24.9 percent versus 43 percent; p < 
0.0001) and were less likely to experience complications (5.3 percent versus 
10.5 percent; p = 0.0162).
CONCLUSION: Elderly patients tend to suffer from less severe facial fractures, 
requiring less need for operative intervention, likely secondary to low-energy 
mechanisms of injury.
CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Risk, II.

DOI: 10.1097/01.prs.0000475791.31361.9a
PMID: 26818295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Pharmacoeconomics. 2016 Apr;34(4):337-48. doi: 10.1007/s40273-015-0350-3.

The Clinical and Cost Effectiveness of Ustekinumab for the Treatment of 
Psoriatic Arthritis: A Critique of the Evidence.

O'Connor J(1), Rice S(2), Smith A(2), Rodgers M(2), Lopez RR(2), Craig D(2), 
Woolacott N(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, Heslington, York, 
UK. joanne.oconnor@newcastle.ac.uk.
(2)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, Heslington, York, 
UK.

The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) invited the 
manufacturer of ustekinumab (Janssen) to submit evidence for the clinical and 
cost effectiveness of ustekinumab for the treatment of active psoriatic 
arthritis (PsA) as part of the Institute's single technology appraisal (STA) 
process. The Centre for Reviews and Dissemination and the Centre for Health 
Economics Technology Appraisal Group at the University of York were commissioned 
to act as the independent Evidence Review Group (ERG). This article provides a 
description of the ERG review of the manufacturer's evidence submission, and 
summarises the NICE Appraisal Committee's final guidance (TA340) issued in June 
2015. The manufacturer presented evidence on ustekinumab for two patient 
populations: (1) a tumour necrosis factor-α (TNFα)-inhibitor-naïve population 
who had not previously received any TNFα inhibitors (biologics); and (2) a 
TNFα-inhibitor-exposed population who had previously received at least one TNFα 
inhibitor. The clinical evidence for ustekinumab was derived from two randomised 
controlled trials (PSUMMIT 1 and 2), in which a total of 927 patients who had 
not responded to previous disease-modifying antirheumatic drug therapies 
received ustekinumab 45 mg, ustekinumab 90 mg, or placebo. These data suggested 
that ustekinumab is more effective than placebo over 16-24 weeks in terms of 
both joint and skin response. In the absence of head-to-head comparisons between 
different biologics (ustekinumab, golimumab, etanercept, adalimumab and 
infliximab), the manufacturer conducted a network meta-analysis to estimate the 
relative efficacy of treatments for the TNFα-inhibitor-naïve population. Results 
of this analysis were marked as academic in confidence and are therefore not 
reported. For the TNFα-inhibitor-exposed population, the clinical analysis was 
limited to ustekinumab versus conventional management only, and was based on a 
subgroup of 180 patients from the PSUMMIT 2 trial. The ERG raised concerns 
relating to the lack of data on the long-term efficacy of ustekinumab, the 
limited data available for the exposed population, and the lack of consideration 
of the sequential use of treatments. Based on the manufacturer's original model, 
the ERG found ustekinumab to be dominated by golimumab in the 
anti-TNF-inhibitor-naïve population, and had an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) of £29,843/quality-adjusted life-years versus conventional 
management in the exposed population. The ERG's analyses highlighted the fact 
that there is significant uncertainty around the model results. In addition, the 
ERG's exploratory cost-effectiveness analysis, which incorporated the sequential 
use of TNFα inhibitors, suggested that ustekinumab would not be cost effective 
if it were used as second-line treatment. The initial NICE recommendations 
asserted that ustekinumab was not recommended for treating active PsA. However, 
the manufacturer submitted a post-consultation model that included a Patient 
Access Scheme (PAS), halving the unit cost of ustekinumab 90 mg to £2147 (the 
same as a 45 mg dose). The NICE final recommendations were that, dependent on 
the inclusion of the PAS, ustekinumab is recommended as an option, along or in 
combination with methotrexate, for treating active PsA in adults only when 
treatment with TNFα inhibitors is contraindicated but would otherwise be 
considered, or the person has previously had treatment with one or more TNFα 
inhibitors, which has failed.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-015-0350-3
PMID: 26818809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. PLoS Genet. 2016 Jan 28;12(1):e1005802. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1005802. 
eCollection 2016 Jan.

Functional Investigation of a Non-coding Variant Associated with Adolescent 
Idiopathic Scoliosis in Zebrafish: Elevated Expression of the Ladybird Homeobox 
Gene Causes Body Axis Deformation.

Guo L(1), Yamashita H(2), Kou I(3), Takimoto A(1), Meguro-Horike M(4), Horike 
S(4), Sakuma T(5), Miura S(1), Adachi T(6), Yamamoto T(5), Ikegawa S(3), Hiraki 
Y(1), Shukunami C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular Differentiation, Institute for Frontier Medical 
Sciences, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Division of Basic Life 
Sciences, Institute of Biomedical and Health Sciences, Hiroshima University, 
Hiroshima, Japan.
(3)Laboratory for Bone and Joint Diseases, RIKEN Center for Integrative Medical 
Sciences, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Division of Functional Genomics, Advanced Science Research Center, Kanazawa 
University, Kanazawa, Japan.
(5)Department of Mathematical and Life Sciences, Graduate School of Science, 
Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima, Hiroshima, Japan.
(6)Department of Biomechanics, Research Center for Nano Medical Engineering, 
Institute for Frontier Medical Sciences, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.

Previously, we identified an adolescent idiopathic scoliosis susceptibility 
locus near human ladybird homeobox 1 (LBX1) and FLJ41350 by a genome-wide 
association study. Here, we characterized the associated non-coding variant and 
investigated the function of these genes. A chromosome conformation capture 
assay revealed that the genome region with the most significantly associated 
single nucleotide polymorphism (rs11190870) physically interacted with the 
promoter region of LBX1-FLJ41350. The promoter in the direction of LBX1, 
combined with a 590-bp region including rs11190870, had higher transcriptional 
activity with the risk allele than that with the non-risk allele in HEK 293T 
cells. The ubiquitous overexpression of human LBX1 or either of the zebrafish 
lbx genes (lbx1a, lbx1b, and lbx2), but not FLJ41350, in zebrafish embryos 
caused body curvature followed by death prior to vertebral column formation. 
Such body axis deformation was not observed in transcription activator-like 
effector nucleases mediated knockout zebrafish of lbx1b or lbx2. Mosaic 
expression of lbx1b driven by the GATA2 minimal promoter and the lbx1b enhancer 
in zebrafish significantly alleviated the embryonic lethal phenotype to allow 
observation of the later onset of the spinal curvature with or without vertebral 
malformation. Deformation of the embryonic body axis by lbx1b overexpression was 
associated with defects in convergent extension, which is a component of the 
main axis-elongation machinery in gastrulating embryos. In embryos 
overexpressing lbx1b, wnt5b, a ligand of the non-canonical Wnt/planar cell 
polarity (PCP) pathway, was significantly downregulated. Injection of mRNA for 
wnt5b or RhoA, a key downstream effector of Wnt/PCP signaling, rescued the 
defective convergent extension phenotype and attenuated the lbx1b-induced 
curvature of the body axis. Thus, our study presents a novel pathological 
feature of LBX1 and its zebrafish homologs in body axis deformation at various 
stages of embryonic and subsequent growth in zebrafish.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1005802
PMCID: PMC4731154
PMID: 26820155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


148. Biomol Concepts. 2016 Feb;7(1):41-52. doi: 10.1515/bmc-2015-0032.

Life in the cold: links between mammalian hibernation and longevity.

Wu CW, Storey KB.

The biological process of aging is the primary determinant of lifespan, but the 
factors that influence the rate of aging are not yet clearly understood and 
remain a challenging question. Mammals are characterized by >100-fold 
differences in maximal lifespan, influenced by relative variances in body mass 
and metabolic rate. Recent discoveries have identified long-lived mammalian 
species that deviate from the expected longevity quotient. A commonality among 
many long-lived species is the capacity to undergo metabolic rate depression, 
effectively re-programming normal metabolism in response to extreme 
environmental stress and enter states of torpor or hibernation. This stress 
tolerant phenotype often involves a reduction in overall metabolic rate to just 
1-5% of the normal basal rate as well as activation of cytoprotective responses. 
At the cellular level, major energy savings are achieved via coordinated 
suppression of many ATP-expensive cell functions; e.g. global rates of protein 
synthesis are strongly reduced via inhibition of the insulin signaling axis. At 
the same time, various studies have shown activation of stress survival 
signaling during hibernation including up-regulation of protein chaperones, 
increased antioxidant defenses, and transcriptional activation of pro-survival 
signaling such as the FOXO and p53 pathways. Many similarities and parallels 
exist between hibernation phenotypes and different long-lived models, e.g. 
signal transduction pathways found to be commonly regulated during hibernation 
are also known to induce lifespan extension in animals such as Drosophila 
melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans. In this review, we highlight some of 
the molecular mechanisms that promote longevity in classic aging models C. 
elegans, Drosophila, and mice, while providing a comparative analysis to how 
they are regulated during mammalian hibernation.

DOI: 10.1515/bmc-2015-0032
PMID: 26820181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Gerontology. 2016;62(3):345-53. doi: 10.1159/000441493. Epub 2016 Jan 29.

The Subjective Health Horizon Questionnaire (SHH-Q): Assessing Future Time 
Perspectives for Facets of an Active Lifestyle.

Düzel S(1), Voelkle MC, Düzel E, Gerstorf D, Drewelies J, Steinhagen-Thiessen E, 
Demuth I, Lindenberger U.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Human Development, Berlin, Germany.

BACKGROUND: A wider subjective time horizon is assumed to be positively 
associated with longevity and vitality. In particular, a lifestyle with exposure 
to novel and varied information is considered beneficial for healthy cognitive 
aging. At present, measures that specifically assess individuals' perceived 
temporal extension to engage in active lifestyles in the future are not 
available.
OBJECTIVES: We introduce and validate a new self-report measure, the Subjective 
Health Horizon Questionnaire (SHH-Q). The SHH-Q assesses individuals' future 
time perspectives in relation to four interrelated but distinct lifestyle 
dimensions: (1) novelty-oriented exploration (Novelty), (2) bodily fitness 
(Body), (3) work goals (Work), and (4) goals in life (Life Goals). The present 
study aims at: (a) validating the hypothesized factor structure of the SHH-Q, 
according to which the SHH-Q consists of four interrelated but distinct 
subscales, and (b) testing the hypothesis that the Novelty and Body subscales of 
the SHH-Q show positive and selective associations with markers of cognition and 
somatic health, respectively.
METHODS: Using structural equation modeling, we analyzed data from 1,371 healthy 
individuals (51% women) with a mean age of 70.1 years (SD = 3.6) who 
participated in the Berlin Aging Study II (BASE-II) and completed the SHH-Q.
RESULTS: As predicted, the SHH-Q formed four correlated but distinct subscales: 
(1) Novelty, (2) Body, (3) Work, and (4) Life Goals. Greater self-reported 
future novelty orientation was associated with higher current memory 
performance, and greater future expectations regarding bodily fitness with 
better current metabolic status.
CONCLUSION: The SHH-Q reliably assesses individual differences in four distinct 
dimensions of future time perspective. Two of these dimensions, Novelty and 
Body, show differential associations with cognitive status and somatic health. 
The SHH-Q may serve as a tool to assess how different facets of future time 
perspective relate to somatic health, cognition, motivation, and affect, and may 
help to identify the socioeconomic and individual antecedents, correlates, and 
consequences of an active lifestyle.

© 2016 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000441493
PMID: 26820307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2016;910:31-8. doi: 10.1007/5584_2015_206.

Asthma and COPD: Similarities and Differences in the Pathophysiology, Diagnosis 
and Therapy.

Yayan J(1), Rasche K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Sleep 
Medicine, HELIOS Clinic Wuppertal, Witten/Herdecke University, 40 
Heusnerstrasse, 42283, Wuppertal, Germany. josef.yayan@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Sleep 
Medicine, HELIOS Clinic Wuppertal, Witten/Herdecke University, 40 
Heusnerstrasse, 42283, Wuppertal, Germany.

Asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are two of the most 
common chronic lung diseases worldwide. Distinguishing between these different 
pulmonary diseases can be difficult in practice because of symptomatic 
similarities. A definitive diagnosis is essential for correct treatment. This 
review article presents the different symptoms of these two chronic inflammatory 
lung diseases following a selective search of the PubMed database for relevant 
literature published between 1996 and 2012. While cough occurs in both diseases, 
asthmatics often have a dry cough mainly at night, which is often associated 
with allergies. In contrast, COPD is usually caused by years of smoking. 
Paroxysmal dyspnea, which occurs in asthma, is characterized by shortness of 
breath, while in COPD it occurs during physical exertion in early stages and at 
rest in later stages of the disease. Asthma often begins in childhood or 
adolescence, whereas COPD occurs mainly in smokers in later life. It is possible 
to live with asthma into old age, whereas the life expectancy of patients with 
COPD is significantly limited. Currently, there is no general curative treatment 
for either disorder.

DOI: 10.1007/5584_2015_206
PMID: 26820733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Am J Transplant. 2016 Feb;16(2):407-13. doi: 10.1111/ajt.13593. Epub 2016
Jan  28.

Recommendations for Solid Organ Transplantation for Transplant Candidates With a 
Pretransplant Diagnosis of Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma, Merkel Cell 
Carcinoma and Melanoma: A Consensus Opinion From the International Transplant 
Skin Cancer Collaborative (ITSCC).

Zwald F(1), Leitenberger J(2), Zeitouni N(3), Soon S(4), Brewer J(5), Arron 
S(6), Bordeaux J(7), Chung C(8), Abdelmalek M(8), Billingsley E(9), Vidimos 
A(10), Stasko T(11).

Author information:
(1)Piedmont Transplant Institute, Atlanta, GA.
(2)Department of Dermatology, OHSU, Portland, OR.
(3)Department of Dermatology, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ.
(4)Department of Dermatology, Scripps Clinic, La Jolla, CA.
(5)Department of Dermatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.
(6)Department of Dermatology, UCSF, San Francisco, CA.
(7)Department of Dermatology, Case Medical Center, Cleveland, OH.
(8)Department of Dermatology, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA.
(9)Department of Dermatology, Penn State, Hershey, PA.
(10)Department of Dermatology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH.
(11)Department of Dermatology, Oklahoma University, Oklahoma City, OK.

Advancements in solid organ transplantation successfully extend the lives of 
thousands of patients annually. The tenet of organ stewardship aims to prevent 
the futile expenditure of scarce donor organs in patient populations with high 
mortality risk, to the detriment of potential recipients with greater predicted 
life expectancy. The development of skin cancer posttransplantation portends 
tremendous morbidity, adversely affecting quality of life for many transplant 
recipients. This special article, provided by of members of the International 
Transplant Skin Cancer Collaborative (ITSCC), will provide the transplant 
professional with a consensus opinion and recommendations as to an appropriate 
wait period pretransplantation for transplant candidates with a history of 
either cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, malignant melanoma, or Merkel cell 
carcinoma.

© Copyright 2016 The American Society of Transplantation and the American 
Society of Transplant Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ajt.13593
PMID: 26820755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Eur Spine J. 2016 Aug;25(8):2390-400. doi: 10.1007/s00586-016-4413-8. Epub
2016  Jan 28.

A decision analysis to identify the ideal treatment for adult spinal deformity: 
is surgery better than non-surgical treatment in improving health-related 
quality of life and decreasing the disease burden?

Acaroglu E(1), Yavuz AC(2), Guler UO(3), Yuksel S(4), Yavuz Y(5), Domingo-Sabat 
M(6), Pellise F(6), Alanay A(7), Perez Grueso FS(8), Kleinstück F(9), Obeid 
I(10); European Spine Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Ankara Spine Center, Iran Caddesi 45/2 Kavaklidere, Ankara, 06700, Turkey. 
acaroglue@gmail.com.
(2)Clinistats EU, Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)Ankara Spine Center, Iran Caddesi 45/2 Kavaklidere, Ankara, 06700, Turkey.
(4)Yildirim Beyazit University, Ankara, Turkey.
(5)Ankara University, Ankara, Turkey.
(6)Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Acibadem Maslak Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey.
(8)Hospital Universitari La Paz, Madrid, Spain.
(9)Schultess Clinic, Zurich, Switzerland.
(10)Bordeaux University Hospital, Bordeaux, France.

BACKGROUND: Adult spinal deformity (ASD) is a major public health problem. There 
are pros and cons of the available treatment alternatives (surgical or 
non-surgical) and it had been difficult to identify the best treatment modality.
AIM: To construct a statistical DA model to identify the optimum overall 
treatment in ASD.
METHODS: From an international multicentre database of ASD patients (968 pts), 
535 who had completed 1 year follow-up (371 non-surgical-NS, 164 surgical-S), 
constitute the population of this study. DA was structured in two main steps of: 
(1) baseline analysis (assessing the probabilities of outcomes, assessing the 
values of preference-utilities-, combining information on probability and 
utility and assigning the quality adjusted life expectancy (QALE) for each 
treatment) and (2) sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Four hundred and thirty-two patients (309 NS, 123 S) had baseline and 
1 year follow-up ODI measurements. Overall, 104 (24.1 %) were found to be 
improved (a decrease in ODI > 8 points), 225 (52.1 %) unchanged (-8 > ODI > 8) 
and 65 deteriorated. Surgery presented with a higher chance of improvement 
(54.2 %) versus NS (9.7 %). The overall QALE ranged from 56 to 69 (of 100 years) 
and demonstrated better final QALE in the NS group (60 vs. 65, P = 0.0038), this 
group having started with higher QALE as well (56 vs. 65 years, P < 0.0001). 
There were improvements in overall QALE in both groups but this was significant 
only in the surgical group (S from 56 to 60 years, P < 0.0001; NS from 65 to 
65 years, P = 0.27). In addition, in the subgroup of patients with significant 
baseline disability (ODI > 25) surgery appeared to yield marginally better final 
QALE (58 vs. 56 years, P = 0.1) despite very a similar baseline (54 vs. 
54 years, P = 0.93).
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated that a single best treatment 
modality for ASD may not exist. Conservative treatment appears to yield higher 
(up to 6 %) QALE compared to surgery, most probably secondary to a higher 
baseline QALE. On the other hand, surgery provides a significantly higher 
increase in QALE. Especially in patients with significant disability at 
baseline, the final QALE tended higher in the S group (although not 
significant). Finally, chances of a relevant improvement at first year turned 
out to be significantly lower with NS treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-016-4413-8
PMID: 26821143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2016 Jul;215(1):101.e1-7. doi:
10.1016/j.ajog.2016.01.165.  Epub 2016 Jan 25.

Revisiting the cost-effectiveness of universal cervical length screening: 
importance of progesterone efficacy.

Jain S(1), Kilgore M(2), Edwards RK(3), Owen J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care Organization and Policy, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama. Electronic address: sjain@uab.edu.
(2)Department of Health Care Organization and Policy, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama.
(3)Center for Women's Reproductive Health, Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama.

BACKGROUND: Preterm birth (PTB) is a significant cause of neonatal morbidity and 
mortality. Studies have shown that vaginal progesterone therapy for women 
diagnosed with shortened cervical length can reduce the risk of PTB. However, 
published cost-effectiveness analyses of vaginal progesterone for short cervix 
have not considered an appropriate range of clinically important parameters.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of universal cervical length 
screening in women without a history of spontaneous PTB, assuming that all women 
with shortened cervical length receive progesterone to reduce the likelihood of 
PTB.
STUDY DESIGN: A decision analysis model was developed to compare universal 
screening and no-screening strategies. The primary outcome was the 
cost-effectiveness ratio of both the strategies, defined as the estimated 
patient cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) realized by the children. 
One-way sensitivity analyses were performed by varying progesterone efficacy to 
prevent PTB. A probabilistic sensitivity analysis was performed to address 
uncertainties in model parameter estimates.
RESULTS: In our base-case analysis, assuming that progesterone reduces the 
likelihood of PTB by 11%, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for screening 
was $158,000/QALY. Sensitivity analyses show that these results are highly 
sensitive to the presumed efficacy of progesterone to prevent PTB. In a 1-way 
sensitivity analysis, screening results in cost-saving if progesterone can 
reduce PTB by 36%. Additionally, for screening to be cost-effective at 
WTP=$60,000 in three clinical scenarios, progesterone therapy has to reduce PTB 
by 60%, 34% and 93%. Screening is never cost-saving in the worst-case scenario 
or when serial ultrasounds are employed, but could be cost-saving with a two-day 
hospitalization only if progesterone were 64% effective.
CONCLUSION: Cervical length screening and treatment with progesterone is a not a 
dominant, cost-effective strategy unless progesterone is more effective than has 
been suggested by available data for US women. Until future trials demonstrate 
greater progesterone efficacy, and effectiveness studies confirm a benefit from 
screening and treatment, the cost-effectiveness of universal cervical length 
screening in the United States remains questionable.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2016.01.165
PMID: 26821336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Eur Spine J. 2016 Dec;25(12):4052-4059. doi: 10.1007/s00586-016-4397-4. Epub
 2016 Jan 28.

Evaluation of the relevance of surgery in a retrospective case series of 
patients who underwent the surgical treatment of a symptomatic spine metastasis 
from lung cancer.

Zairi F(1), Karnoub MA(2), Vieillard MH(3), Bouras A(2), Marinho P(2), Allaoui 
M(2), Devos P(4), Assaker R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, CHRU de Lille, 59000, Lille, France. 
fahed.zairi@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, CHRU de Lille, 59000, Lille, France.
(3)Department of Rheumatology, CHU Lille, 59000, Lille, France.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, Univ Lille, CHU Lille, EA2694, 59000, Lille, 
France.

Comment in
    Eur Spine J. 2023 Jan;32(1):389-390.
    Eur Spine J. 2023 Jan;32(1):391.

BACKGROUND: The management of spine metastases is an increasing concern for 
spine surgeons. When considering surgery, it is crucial to ensure that its 
iatrogenic effects will not exceed its potential benefits, particularly in frail 
patients with short life expectancy. Among all prognostic factors, the primary 
site of cancer is the most important, lung cancer being the poorest. Although 
surgery has shown its effectiveness in the management of spine metastases, there 
is a lack of studies focusing on lung cancer alone.
PURPOSE: To assess the effectiveness and safety of surgery in the management of 
symptomatic spine metastases from lung cancer.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed all patients (n = 53) who underwent surgery 
for spine metastasis from lung cancer at the Lille University Hospital between 
January 2005 and December 2011. Patients for whom surgery was effective to 
restore or preserve ambulation, to relieve pain, and to ensure stability without 
severe complication were considered "surgical success".
RESULTS: No patient was lost to follow-up and vital status data were available 
for all patients. The median survival was 2.1 months and was not influenced by 
the surgical success (p = 0.1766). We reported seven major complications in 
seven patients, including three epidural haematoma, two massive pulmonary 
embolisms and two deaths from cardiopulmonary failure. The surgical success rate 
was 49 % and on univariate analysis, the factors that have influenced the 
postoperative outcome were the KPS (p < 0.001), the Frankel grade (p = 0.0217) 
and the delay between the cancer diagnosis and the occurrence of spine 
metastases (p = 0.0216).
CONCLUSION: A strict patient selection is required to limit the iatrogenic 
effect of surgery, which may alter the quality of life of these frail patients 
with limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-016-4397-4
PMID: 26821552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2016 Feb 2;67(4):435-444. doi:
10.1016/j.jacc.2015.11.033.

Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillators at End of Battery Life: Opportunities 
for Risk (Re)-Stratification in ICD Recipients.

Merchant FM(1), Quest T(2), Leon AR(3), El-Chami MF(3).

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Division, Section of Cardiac Electrophysiology, Department of 
Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia. Electronic 
address: faisal.merchant@emoryhealthcare.org.
(2)Atlanta Veterans Administration Medical Center, Department of Veterans 
Affairs, Atlanta, Georgia; Emory Cardiovascular Clinical Research Institute, 
Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia.
(3)Cardiology Division, Section of Cardiac Electrophysiology, Department of 
Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia.

Although implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) are frequently viewed as 
a lifelong commitment in that patients are routinely scheduled for generator 
exchange (GE) at end of battery life, several considerations should prompt a 
reevaluation of risks and benefits before GE. Compared with initial ICD implant, 
patients receiving replacement devices are older, and have more comorbidities 
and shorter life expectancy, all of which may limit the benefit of ICD therapy 
following GE. Additionally, GE is associated with significant complications, 
including infection, which may increase the risk of mortality. In this paper, we 
review recent data regarding opportunities for risk stratification before GE, 
with a particular focus on those with improved left ventricular function and 
those who have not experienced ICD therapies during the first battery life. We 
also provide a broader perspective on ICD therapy, focusing on how decisions 
regarding GE may affect goals of care at the end of life.

Copyright © 2016 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2015.11.033
PMID: 26821633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Sci Rep. 2016 Jan 29;6:17790. doi: 10.1038/srep17790.

Interplay between type IV pili activity and exopolysaccharides secretion 
controls motility patterns in single cells of Myxococcus xanthus.

Hu W(1)(2), Gibiansky ML(3), Wang J(1)(2), Wang C(1), Lux R(2), Li Y(1), Wong 
GC(3), Shi W(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Technology, School of Life Science, 
Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong 250100, China.
(2)School of Dentistry, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.
(3)Department of Bioengineering, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 
90095, USA.

Myxococcus xanthus performs coordinated social motility of cell groups through 
the extension and retraction of type IV pili (TFP) on solid surfaces, which 
requires both TFP and exopolysaccharides (EPS). By submerging cells in a liquid 
medium containing 1% methylcellulose, M. xanthus TFP-driven motility was induced 
in isolated cells and independently of EPS. We measured and analyzed the 
movements of cells using community tracking algorithms, which combine 
single-cell resolution with statistics from large sample populations. Cells 
without significant multi-cellular social interactions have surprisingly complex 
behaviors: EPS(-) cells exhibited a pronounced increase in the tendency to stand 
vertically and moved with qualitatively different characteristics than other 
cells. A decrease in the EPS secretion of cells correlates with a higher 
instantaneous velocity, but with lower directional persistence in trajectories. 
Moreover, EPS(-) cells do not adhere to the surface as strongly as wild-type and 
EPS overproducing cells, and display a greater tendency to have large deviations 
between the direction of movement and the cell axis, with cell velocity showing 
only minimal dependence on the direction of movement. The emerging picture is 
that EPS does not simply provide rheological resistance to a single mechanism 
but rather that the availability of EPS impacts motility pattern.

DOI: 10.1038/srep17790
PMCID: PMC4731782
PMID: 26821939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Jan;37(1):98-101. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2016.01.021.

[Disability adjusted life years of type 2 diabetes in population in Zhejiang 
province, 2013].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang H(1), Hu R(2), Fei F(2), Gong W(2), Pan J(2), Wang H(2), Wu H(2), Wang 
M(2), Yu M(2).

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology and Health Statistic, Department of Preventative Medicine, 
School of Medicine, Ningbo University, Ningbo 315211, China.
(2)Department of Noncommunicable Disease Control and Prevention, Division of 
Surveillance and Evaluation, Zhejiang Provincial Center for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Hangzhou 310051, China.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the disease burden of type 2 diabetes in population in 
Zhejiang in 2013.
METHODS: According to the method in global burden of disease study (GBD) 2010, 
the related disability adjusted life years (DALYs), years of life lost (YLL) and 
years lived with disability (YLD) were calculated by using the incidence, 
prevalence and mortality data of type 2 diabetes in population in Zhejiang and 
DISMODⅡ.
