of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) like Imatinib, which are able to counteract 
the activity of Bcr-Abl protein increasing patient's life expectancy and 
survival. Unfortunately, there are some issues TKIs are not able to address; 
first of all TKIs are not so effective in increasing survival of patients in 
blast crisis, second they are not able to eradicate leukemic stem cells (LSC) 
which represent the major cause of disease relapse, and third patients often 
develop resistance to TKIs due to mutations in the drug binding site. For all 
these reasons it's of primary interest to find alternative strategies to treat 
CML. Literature shows that Hedgehog signaling pathway is involved in LSC 
maintenance, and pharmacological inhibition of Smoothened (SMO), one of the key 
molecules of the pathway, has been demonstrated to reduce Bcr-Abl positive bone 
marrow cells and LSC. Consequently, targeting SMO could be a promising way to 
develop a new treatment strategy for CML overcoming the limitations of current 
therapies. In our work we have tested some compounds able to inhibit SMO, and 
among them MRT92 appears to be a very potent SMO antagonist. We found that 
almost all our compounds were able to reduce Gli1 protein levels in K-562 and in 
KU-812 CML cell lines. Furthermore, they were also able to increase Gli1 and SMO 
RNA levels, and to reduce cell proliferation and induce apoptosis/autophagy in 
both the tested cell lines. Finally, we demonstrated that our compounds were 
able to modulate the expression of some miRNAs related to Hedgehog pathway such 
as miR-324-5p and miR-326. Being Hedgehog pathway deeply implicated in the 
mechanisms of CML we may conclude that it could be a good therapeutic target for 
CML and our compounds seem to be promising antagonists of such pathway.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0149919
PMCID: PMC4774938
PMID: 26934052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


519. Nature. 2016 Mar 17;531(7594):381-5. doi: 10.1038/nature17180. Epub 2016 Mar
2.

Therapeutic efficacy of the small molecule GS-5734 against Ebola virus in rhesus 
monkeys.

Warren TK(1)(2), Jordan R(3), Lo MK(4), Ray AS(3), Mackman RL(3), Soloveva 
V(1)(2), Siegel D(3), Perron M(3), Bannister R(3), Hui HC(3), Larson N(3), 
Strickley R(3), Wells J(1), Stuthman KS(1), Van Tongeren SA(1), Garza NL(1), 
Donnelly G(1), Shurtleff AC(1), Retterer CJ(1), Gharaibeh D(1), Zamani R(1), 
Kenny T(1), Eaton BP(1), Grimes E(1), Welch LS(1), Gomba L(1)(2), Wilhelmsen 
CL(1), Nichols DK(1), Nuss JE(1)(2), Nagle ER(1), Kugelman JR(1), Palacios G(1), 
Doerffler E(3), Neville S(3), Carra E(3), Clarke MO(3), Zhang L(3), Lew W(3), 
Ross B(3), Wang Q(3), Chun K(3), Wolfe L(3), Babusis D(3), Park Y(3), Stray 
KM(3), Trancheva I(3), Feng JY(3), Barauskas O(3), Xu Y(3), Wong P(3), Braun 
MR(5), Flint M(4), McMullan LK(4), Chen SS(3), Fearns R(5), Swaminathan S(3), 
Mayers DL(1), Spiropoulou CF(4), Lee WA(3), Nichol ST(4), Cihlar T(3), Bavari 
S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases, 
Frederick, Maryland 21702, USA.
(2)United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases, 
Therapeutic Development Center, Frederick, Maryland 21702, USA.
(3)Gilead Sciences, Foster City, California 94404, USA.
(4)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia 30333, USA.
(5)Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts 02118, USA.

Erratum in
    ACS Chem Biol. 2016 May 20;11(5):1463.

The most recent Ebola virus outbreak in West Africa, which was unprecedented in 
the number of cases and fatalities, geographic distribution, and number of 
nations affected, highlights the need for safe, effective, and readily available 
antiviral agents for treatment and prevention of acute Ebola virus (EBOV) 
disease (EVD) or sequelae. No antiviral therapeutics have yet received 
regulatory approval or demonstrated clinical efficacy. Here we report the 
discovery of a novel small molecule GS-5734, a monophosphoramidate prodrug of an 
adenosine analogue, with antiviral activity against EBOV. GS-5734 exhibits 
antiviral activity against multiple variants of EBOV and other filoviruses in 
cell-based assays. The pharmacologically active nucleoside triphosphate (NTP) is 
efficiently formed in multiple human cell types incubated with GS-5734 in vitro, 
and the NTP acts as an alternative substrate and RNA-chain terminator in 
primer-extension assays using a surrogate respiratory syncytial virus RNA 
polymerase. Intravenous administration of GS-5734 to nonhuman primates resulted 
in persistent NTP levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (half-life, 14 h) 
and distribution to sanctuary sites for viral replication including testes, 
eyes, and brain. In a rhesus monkey model of EVD, once-daily intravenous 
administration of 10 mg kg(-1) GS-5734 for 12 days resulted in profound 
suppression of EBOV replication and protected 100% of EBOV-infected animals 
against lethal disease, ameliorating clinical disease signs and 
pathophysiological markers, even when treatments were initiated three days after 
virus exposure when systemic viral RNA was detected in two out of six treated 
animals. These results show the first substantive post-exposure protection by a 
small-molecule antiviral compound against EBOV in nonhuman primates. The 
broad-spectrum antiviral activity of GS-5734 in vitro against other pathogenic 
RNA viruses, including filoviruses, arenaviruses, and coronaviruses, suggests 
the potential for wider medical use. GS-5734 is amenable to large-scale 
manufacturing, and clinical studies investigating the drug safety and 
pharmacokinetics are ongoing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature17180
PMCID: PMC5551389
PMID: 26934220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors affiliated with Gilead Sciences are 
employees of the company and may own company stock.


520. PLoS One. 2016 Mar 2;11(3):e0149241. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0149241. 
eCollection 2016.

Efficient Targeted Next Generation Sequencing-Based Workflow for Differential 
Diagnosis of Alport-Related Disorders.

Kovács G(1), Kalmár T(1), Endreffy E(1), Ondrik Z(2), Iványi B(3), Rikker C(4), 
Haszon I(1), Túri S(1), Sinkó M(1), Bereczki C(1), Maróti Z(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Szeged, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Pediatrics and 
Pediatric Health Center, Szeged, Hungary.
(2)University of Szeged, Faculty of Medicine, First Department of Internal 
Medicine, Szeged, Hungary.
(3)University of Szeged, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Pathology, Szeged, 
Hungary.
(4)Péterfy Sándor Hospital Department of Internal Medicine 1, Budapest, Hungary.

Alport syndrome (AS) is an inherited type IV collagen nephropathies 
characterized by microscopic hematuria during early childhood, the development 
of proteinuria and progression to end-stage renal disease. Since choosing the 
right therapy, even before the onset of proteinuria, can delay the onset of 
end-stage renal failure and improve life expectancy, the earliest possible 
differential diagnosis is desired. Practically, this means the identification of 
mutation(s) in COL4A3-A4-A5 genes. We used an efficient, next generation 
sequencing based workflow for simultaneous analysis of all three COL4A genes in 
three individuals and fourteen families involved by AS or showing different 
level of Alport-related symptoms. We successfully identified mutations in all 
investigated cases, including 14 unpublished mutations in our Hungarian cohort. 
We present an easy to use unified clinical/diagnostic terminology and workflow 
not only for X-linked but for autosomal AS, but also for Alport-related 
diseases. In families where a diagnosis has been established by molecular 
genetic analysis, the renal biopsy may be rendered unnecessary.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0149241
PMCID: PMC4775026
PMID: 26934356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


521. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016 Mar 2;3(3):CD011602. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD011602.pub2.

Ultrasonography for diagnosis of alcoholic cirrhosis in people with alcoholic 
liver disease.

Pavlov CS(1), Casazza G, Semenistaia M, Nikolova D, Tsochatzis E, Liusina E, 
Ivashkin VT, Gluud C.

Author information:
(1)The Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group, Copenhagen Trial Unit, Centre for Clinical 
Intervention Research, Department 7812, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University 
Hospital, Blegdamsvej 9, Copenhagen, Denmark, DK-2100.

Update of
    doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD011602.

BACKGROUND: Heavy alcohol consumption causes alcoholic liver disease and is a 
causal factor of many types of liver injuries and concomitant diseases. It is a 
true systemic disease that may damage the digestive tract, the nervous system, 
the heart and vascular system, the bone and skeletal muscle system, and the 
endocrine and immune system, and can lead to cancer. Liver damage in turn, can 
present as multiple alcoholic liver diseases, including fatty liver, 
steatohepatitis, fibrosis, alcoholic cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma, 
with presence or absence of hepatitis B or C virus infection. There are three 
scarring types (fibrosis) that are most commonly found in alcoholic liver 
disease: centrilobular scarring, pericellular fibrosis, and periportal fibrosis. 
When liver fibrosis progresses, alcoholic cirrhosis occurs. Hepatocellular 
carcinoma occurs in 5% to 15% of people with alcoholic cirrhosis, but people in 
whom hepatocellular carcinoma has developed are often co-infected with hepatitis 
B or C virus.Abstinence from alcohol may help people with alcoholic disease in 
improving their prognosis of survival at any stage of their disease; however, 
the more advanced the stage, the higher the risk of complications, 
co-morbidities, and mortality, and lesser the effect of abstinence. Being 
abstinent one month after diagnosis of early cirrhosis will improve the chance 
of a seven-year life expectancy by 1.6 times. Liver transplantation is the only 
radical method that may change the prognosis of a person with alcoholic liver 
disease; however, besides the difficulties of finding a suitable liver 
transplant organ, there are many other factors that may influence a person's 
survival.Ultrasound is an inexpensive method that has been used for years in 
clinical practice to diagnose alcoholic cirrhosis. Ultrasound parameters for 
assessing cirrhosis in people with alcoholic liver disease encompass among 
others liver size, bluntness of the liver edge, coarseness of the liver 
parenchyma, nodularity of the liver surface, size of the lymph nodes around the 
hepatic artery, irregularity and narrowness of the inferior vena cava, portal 
vein velocity, and spleen size.Diagnosis of cirrhosis by ultrasound, especially 
in people who are asymptomatic, may have its advantages for the prognosis, 
motivation, and treatment of these people to decrease their alcohol consumption 
or become abstinent.Timely diagnosis of alcoholic cirrhosis in people with 
alcoholic liver disease is the cornerstone for evaluation of prognosis or 
choosing treatment strategies.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasonography for 
detecting the presence or absence of cirrhosis in people with alcoholic liver 
disease compared with liver biopsy as reference standard.To determine the 
diagnostic accuracy of any of the ultrasonography tests, B-mode or echo-colour 
Doppler ultrasonography, used singly or combined, or plus ultrasonography signs, 
or a combination of these, for detecting hepatic cirrhosis in people with 
alcoholic liver disease compared with liver biopsy as a reference standard, 
irrespective of sequence.
SEARCH METHODS: We performed searches in The Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group 
Controlled Trials Register, The Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group Diagnostic Test 
Accuracy Studies Register, The Cochrane Library (Wiley), MEDLINE (OvidSP), 
EMBASE (OvidSP), and the Science Citation Index Expanded to 8 January 2015. We 
applied no language limitations.We screened study references of the retrieved 
studies to identify other potentially relevant studies for inclusion in the 
review and read abstract and poster publications.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Three review authors independently identified studies for 
possible inclusion in the review. We excluded references not fulfilling the 
inclusion criteria of the review protocol. We sent e-mails to study authors.The 
included studies had to evaluate ultrasound in the diagnosis of hepatic 
cirrhosis using only liver biopsy as the reference standard.The maximum time 
interval of investigation with liver biopsy and ultrasonography should not have 
exceeded six months. In addition, ultrasonography could have been performed 
before or after liver biopsy.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We followed the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic 
Reviews of Diagnostic Test Accuracy.
MAIN RESULTS: The review included two studies that provided numerical data 
regarding alcoholic cirrhosis in 205 men and women with alcoholic liver disease. 
Although there were no applicability concerns in terms of participant selection, 
index text, and reference standard, we judged the two studies at high risk of 
bias. Participants in both studies had undergone both liver biopsy and 
ultrasonography investigations. The studies shared only a few comparable 
clinical signs and symptoms (index tests).We decided to not perform a 
meta-analysis due to the high risk of bias and the high degree of heterogeneity 
of the included studies.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: As the accuracy of ultrasonography in the two included 
studies was not informative enough, we could not recommend the use of 
ultrasonography as a diagnostic tool for liver cirrhosis in people with 
alcoholic liver disease. In order to be able to answer the review questions, we 
need diagnostic ultrasonography prospective studies of adequate sample size, 
enrolling only participants with alcoholic liver disease.The design and report 
of the studies should follow the Standards for Reporting of Diagnostic Accuracy. 
The sonographic features, with validated cut-offs, which may help identify 
clinical signs used for diagnosis of fibrosis in alcoholic liver disease, should 
be carefully selected to achieve maximum diagnostic accuracy on ultrasonography.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD011602.pub2
PMCID: PMC6464787
PMID: 26934429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Chavdar Pavlov: none known.  Giovanni Casazza: 
none known.  Marianna Semenistaya (earlier Pavlova): none known.  Dimitrinka 
Nikolova: none known.  Emmanuel Tsochatzis: none known.  Ekaterina Lusina: none 
known.  Vladimir T Ivashkin: none known.  Christian Gluud: none known.


522. PLoS One. 2016 Mar 2;11(3):e0150507. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0150507. 
eCollection 2016.

Pre-Osteoblasts Stimulate Migration of Breast Cancer Cells via the HGF/MET 
Pathway.

Vallet S(1), Bashari MH(1)(2), Fan FJ(1), Malvestiti S(1), Schneeweiss A(1)(3), 
Wuchter P(4), Jäger D(1)(5), Podar K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, National Center for Tumor Diseases (NCT), 
University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Therapy, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas 
Padjadjaran, Bandung, Indonesia.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Heidelberg, 
Heidelberg, Germany.
(4)Department of Medicine V, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.
(5)German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Applied Tumor Immunity, Heidelberg, 
Germany.

INTRODUCTION: The occurrence of skeletal metastases in cancer, e.g. breast 
cancer (BC), deteriorates patient life expectancy and quality-of-life. Current 
treatment options against tumor-associated bone disease are limited to 
anti-resorptive therapies and aimed towards palliation. There remains a lack of 
therapeutic approaches, which reverse or even prevent the development of bone 
metastases. Recent studies demonstrate that not only osteoclasts (OCs), but also 
osteoblasts (OBs) play a central role in the pathogenesis of skeletal 
metastases, partly by producing hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), which promotes 
tumor cell migration and seeding into the bone. OBs consist of a heterogeneous 
cell pool with respect to their maturation stage and function. Recent studies 
highlight the critical role of pre-OBs in hematopoiesis. Whether the development 
of bone metastases can be attributed to a particular OB maturation stage is 
currently unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Pre-OBs were generated from healthy donor (HD)-derived bone 
marrow stromal cells (BMSC) as well as the BMSC line KM105 and defined as ALPlow 
OPNlow RUNX2high OSX high CD166high. Conditioned media (CM) of pre-OBs, but not 
of undifferentiated cells or mature OBs, enhanced migration of metastatic BC 
cells. Importantly, HGF mRNA was significantly up-regulated in pre-OBs versus 
mature OBs, and CM of pre-OBs activated the MET signaling pathway. Highlighting 
a key role for HGF, CM from HGF-negative pre-OBs derived from the BMSC line 
HS27A did not support migration of BC cells. Genetically (siMET) or 
pharmacologically (INCB28060) targeting MET inhibited both HGF- and pre-OB CM- 
mediated BC cell migration.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrate for the first time a role for pre-OBs in 
mediating HGF/MET- dependent migration of BC cells and strongly support the 
clinical evaluation of INCB28060 and other MET inhibitors to limit and/or 
prevent BC-associated bone metastases.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0150507
PMCID: PMC4774929
PMID: 26934743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: SV and KP received research 
support by a commercial source: Novartis Pharma. This does not alter the 
authors’ adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials. The 
funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to 
publish, or preparation of the manuscript.


523. Yakugaku Zasshi. 2016;136(3):423-32. doi: 10.1248/yakushi.15-00232-5.

[Kampo Medicine in the New Model Core Curriculum of Pharmaceutical Education].

[Article in Japanese]

Kobayashi Y(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Kitasato University.

What should we educate for Kampo medicine in the model core curriculum of 
pharmaceutical education? The curricular core should be discussed considering 
the points mentioned below. (1) Positioning of Kampo medicine in the Japanese 
medical care system. Kampo medicine is an authorized medical care category in 
the National Health Insurance (NHI) program in Japan. The NHI drug price list 
carries 148 Kampo formulations. According to the report of the Japan Kampo 
Medicines Manufacturers Association in 2011, approximately 90% of Japanese 
physicians prescribe Kampo medicines. (2) Differences between Kampo medicine and 
western medicine: In Kampo medicine, the most suitable formula among various 
Kampo formulas to normalize the psychophysical state of individual patients is 
selected. In other words, if there is a complaint, there are always some 
treatments. (3) A strong point of Kampo medicine: Kampo medicine enables 
physicians to deal with difficult-to-treat conditions by western medicine alone. 
Also, by using the scale of Kampo medicine, each patient can grasp his or her 
own systemic state and improve their lifestyle. To extend healthy life 
expectancy, a basic knowledge of Kampo medicine may play a significant role in 
integrated health care. "The guide book of the approval standards for OTC Kampo 
products", "the pharmaceutical advanced educational guideline", and "the manual 
of the exam questions preparation for registered sales clerks" should also be 
consulted before selecting the area and contents that should be covered.

DOI: 10.1248/yakushi.15-00232-5
PMID: 26935081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Sci Rep. 2016 Mar 3;6:22479. doi: 10.1038/srep22479.

Functioning free gracilis transfer to reconstruct elbow flexion and quality of 
life in global brachial plexus injured patients.

Yang Y(1), Yang JT(1), Fu G(1), Li XM(1)(2), Qin BG(1), Hou Y(1), Qi J(1), Li 
P(1), Liu XL(1), Gu LQ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microsurgery and Orthopedic Trauma, the First Affiliated 
Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510080, China.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, the First Affiliated Hospital of Henan 
University of Science and Technology, Luoyang 471003, China.

In the study, the functional recovery and relative comprehensive quality of life 
of cases of global brachial plexus treated with free functioning muscle 
transfers were investigated. Patients who received functioning gracilis muscle 
transfer between August 1999 and October 2014 to reconstruct elbow flexion, 
wrist and fingers extension were recruited. The mean age of the patients was 
26.36 (range, 16-42) years. The mean period of time from gracilis transfer to 
the last follow-up was 54.5 months (range, 12-185 months). Muscle power, active 
range of motion of the elbow flexion, wrist extension, and total active fingers 
extension were recorded. SDS, SAS and DASH questionnaires were given to estimate 
patients' quality of life. 35.71% reported good elbow flexion and 50.00% 
reported excellent elbow flexion. The average ROM of the elbow flexion was 
106.5° (range, 0-142°) and was 17.00° (range, 0-72°) for wrist extension. The 
average DASH score was 51.14 (range, 17.5-90.8). The prevalence of anxiety and 
depression were 42.86% and 45.24%. Thrombosis and bowstringing were the most 
common short and long-term complications. Based on these findings, free gracilis 
transfer using accessory nerve as donor nerve is a satisfactory treatment to 
reconstruct the elbow flexion and wrist extension in 
global-brachial-plexus-injured patients.

DOI: 10.1038/srep22479
PMCID: PMC4776154
PMID: 26935173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. J Psychosoc Nurs Ment Health Serv. 2016 Mar;54(3):25-9. doi: 
10.3928/02793695-20160219-04.

Can Declining Rates of Dementia Be Explained by the Increased and Widespread Use 
of Psychotropic Medications?

Howland RH.

Dementia, once described as the "silent epidemic," is now well known and greatly 
feared. Although the total number of dementia cases will increase worldwide 
because of increased life expectancy, eight population-based studies of dementia 
incidence or prevalence have suggested a declining age-specific risk in the 
United States and Europe during the past three decades. Many different 
psychotropic drugs have been introduced since the mid-1950s, and their clinical 
use has broadened and increased dramatically over time. Antidepressant drugs, 
second-generation antipsychotic drugs, lithium, valproate, carbamazepine, 
lamotrigine, electroconvulsive therapy, and exercise have all been found to 
activate or regulate various intracellular neurotrophic and neuroprotective 
processes. They promote neurogenesis and are protective in models of 
neurodegenerative diseases and ischemia. Because of their neurotrophic and 
neuroprotective effects, the widespread use of psychotropic drugs provides a 
plausible explanation for declining rates of dementia that have been observed.

Copyright 2016, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/02793695-20160219-04
PMID: 26935187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. J Cyst Fibros. 2016 Sep;15(5):634-40. doi: 10.1016/j.jcf.2016.01.005. Epub
2016  Feb 28.

Safety and efficacy of prolonged levofloxacin inhalation solution (APT-1026) 
treatment for cystic fibrosis and chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa airway 
infection.

Elborn JS(1), Flume PA(2), Cohen F(3), Loutit J(4), VanDevanter DR(5).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Infection and Immunity, School of Medicine, Dentistry and 
Biomedical Sciences, University Belfast, 97 Lisburn Road, Belfast BT9 7AE, UK. 
Electronic address: s.elborn@qub.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Medicine, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC, 
USA; Department of Pediatrics, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, 
SC, USA. Electronic address: flumepa@musc.edu.
(3)Future Therapies, LLC, Washington Crossing, PA, USA. Electronic address: 
fred@future-therapies.com.
(4)The Medicines Company, San Diego, CA, USA. Electronic address: 
jeff.loutit@THEMEDCO.com.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, 
Cleveland, OH, USA. Electronic address: dutch.vandevanter@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Levofloxacin inhalation solution (LIS) is the first aerosolized 
fluoroquinolone licensed for treatment of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) and 
chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection. This study evaluated the safety 
and efficacy of extended LIS treatment.
METHODS: Patients completing a multinational, randomized study comparing LIS and 
tobramycin inhalation solution (TIS) were enrolled in an open-label extension in 
which all patients received three additional cycles of 28days of LIS 240mg twice 
daily followed by 28days off drug. Endpoints included mean relative change in 
percent predicted forced expiratory volume in 1s (FEV1), time to pulmonary 
exacerbation, and patient-reported quality of life.
RESULTS: Extended treatment with LIS in 88 patients was well tolerated with no 
new safety signals and evidence of positive effects on FEV1 and quality of life.
CONCLUSION: Patients receiving extended LIS treatment continued to show 
favorable efficacy with no additional safety concerns.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcf.2016.01.005
PMID: 26935334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Clin Exp Med. 2016 Aug;16(3):233-42. doi: 10.1007/s10238-016-0410-9. Epub
2016  Mar 2.

The expanding spectrum of HCV-related cryoglobulinemic vasculitis: a narrative 
review.

Dammacco F(1), Racanelli V(2), Russi S(2), Sansonno D(2).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine Unit, Department of Biomedical Sciences and Human Oncology, 
University of Bari Medical School, Piazza G. Cesare 11, 70124, Bari, Italy. 
francesco.dammacco@uniba.it.
(2)Internal Medicine Unit, Department of Biomedical Sciences and Human Oncology, 
University of Bari Medical School, Piazza G. Cesare 11, 70124, Bari, Italy.

Cryoglobulinemic vasculitis (CV) is a small-to-medium-vessel vasculitis that 
appears in 10-15 % of patients chronically infected with hepatitis C virus 
(HCV). The classic symptom triad of CV, purpura/asthenia/arthralgia, is 
accompanied by clinical features that include glomerulonephritis, neuropathy, 
interstitial pneumonitis, and cardiomyopathy, ranging in their severity from 
mild to life threatening. The risk of developing non-Hodgkin lymphoma is also 
higher. The cumulative 10-year survival rate of CV patients is significantly 
lower than in the age- and sex-matched general population, with death typically 
caused by nephropathy, malignancies, liver involvement, and severe infections. 
Unfailing serological stigmata include both a cryoglobulin IgM fraction with 
rheumatoid factor activity and decreased complement C4 levels. On peripheral B 
cells, the expression of the CD81 B cell receptor is reduced while that of the 
CD19 receptor is increased. A monoclonal B cell lymphocytosis develops in almost 
one-third of patients. HCV-related proteins (but not HCV-RNA genomic sequences) 
can be detected on biopsy samples by immunofluorescence and immunohistochemistry 
and involve the vessel lumen, vessel walls, and the perivascular spaces of the 
skin, kidney, and peripheral nerves, supporting the pathogenetic role of HCV in 
the onset of a widespread microvasculitis. Based on the demonstration of HCV 
infection in the large majority of CV patients, a therapeutic regimen consisting 
of once-weekly pegylated interferon-α and the daily administration of ribavirin 
results in a sustained virologic response in ~50 % of patients. In those with 
refractory and relapsing disease, addition of the anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody 
rituximab has significantly increased the overall response rates. The extension 
to CV of latest-generation direct-acting antivirals, strikingly successful in 
non-CV HCV-positive patients, has yielded high complete response rates according 
to the few studies published thus far.

DOI: 10.1007/s10238-016-0410-9
PMID: 26935415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2016 Jun 1;17(6):514-8. doi:
10.1016/j.jamda.2016.01.015.  Epub 2016 Feb 28.

Changes in Prescribed Drugs Between Admission and the End of Life in Patients 
Admitted to Palliative Care Facilities.

van Nordennen RT(1), Lavrijsen JC(2), Heesterbeek MJ(3), Bor H(2), Vissers 
KC(4), Koopmans RT(5).

Author information:
(1)Groenhuysen Organisation, Roosendaal, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
ronald.vannordennen@radboudumc.nl.
(2)Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(3)Elisabeth-Tweesteden Hospital, Tilburg, The Netherlands.
(4)Radboudumc Expertise Centre for Pain and Palliative Medicine, Radboud 
University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(5)Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands; Joachim en 
Anna, Centre for Specialized Geriatric Care Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: The aim of prescribing medication in palliative end-of-life care 
should be symptom control. Data are lacking regarding the prescription of 
medication at the end of life.
AIM: To investigate the prescription of medication in patients at the end of 
life in palliative care facilities.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: An observational multicenter study in 7 
inpatient palliative care facilities. Participants were adults with an estimated 
life expectancy of less than 3 months. The study was conducted from February 1, 
2012, to January 1, 2013.
RESULTS: A total of 155 patients were enrolled. On average, patients were 
prescribed 6.1 drugs at the moment of admission and 4.6 drugs on the day of 
death. The prescription of analgesics, psycholeptics, and drugs for functional 
gastrointestinal disorders increased from admission until death. In general, 
these are drug classes prescribed for symptom control. All other drug classes 
decreased between admission and the day of death, including different drug 
classes for the treatment of comorbid disease, such as anticoagulants, 
beta-blocking agents, drugs used in diabetes, and lipid-modifying agents.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: A reduction in the total amount of medication is seen 
between admission and death in the palliative care facilities. Although there is 
an increase in prescribed symptom-specific medication and a reduction in 
medication prescribed for comorbid disease, there are still patients dying with 
medication not used for symptom control. This increases pill burden and 
indicates that physicians need to develop guidelines and educational programs 
for decreasing medication for comorbidities at the end of life.

Copyright © 2016 AMDA – The Society for Post-Acute and Long-Term Care Medicine. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2016.01.015
PMID: 26935532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Br J Sports Med. 2016 May;50(9):558-63. doi: 10.1136/bjsports-2015-095308.
Epub  2016 Mar 2.

No economic benefit of early knee reconstruction over optional delayed 
reconstruction for ACL tears: registry enriched randomised controlled trial 
data.

Kiadaliri AA(1), Englund M(2), Lohmander LS(3), Carlsson KS(4), Frobell RB(5).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Orthopaedics, Department of Clinical Sciences 
Lund, Lund University, Lund, Sweden Health Services Management Research Center, 
Institute for Futures Studies in Health, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, 
Kerman, Iran.
(2)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Orthopaedics, Department of Clinical Sciences 
Lund, Lund University, Lund, Sweden Clinical Epidemiology Research and Training 
Unit, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Orthopaedics, Department of Clinical Sciences Lund, Lund University, Lund, 
Sweden Research Unit for Musculoskeletal Function and Physiotherapy, University 
of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology, 
University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(4)Department of Clinical Sciences, Malmö, Lund University, Lund, Sweden The 
Swedish Institute of Health Economics, Lund, Sweden.
(5)Orthopaedics, Department of Clinical Sciences Lund, Lund University, Lund, 
Sweden.

BACKGROUND: To analyse 5-year cost-effectiveness of early versus optional 
delayed acute anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction.
METHODS: 121 young, active adults with acute ACL injury to a previously 
uninjured knee were randomised to early ACL reconstruction (n=62, within 
10 weeks of injury) or optional delayed ACL reconstruction (n=59; 30 with ACL 
reconstruction within 6-55 months); all patients received similar structured 
rehabilitation. Real life data on health care utilisation and sick leave were 
obtained from regional and national registers. Costs and quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) were discounted at 3%. Full-analysis set (based on study 
randomisation) and as-treated analysis (according to actual treatment over 
5 years) principles were applied.
RESULTS: Mean cost of early ACL reconstruction was €4695 higher than optional 
delayed ACL reconstruction (p=0.19) and provided an additional 0.13 QALYs 
(p=0.11). Full-analysis set showed incremental net benefit of early versus 
optional delayed ACL reconstruction was not statistically significantly 
different from zero at any level. As-treated analysis showed that costs for 
rehabilitation alone were €13 650 less than early ACL reconstruction (p<0.001). 
Results were robust to sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: In young active adults with acute ACL injury, a strategy of early 
ACL reconstruction did not provide extra economic value over a strategy of 
optional delayed ACL reconstruction over a 5-year period. Results from this and 
previous reports of the KANON-trial imply that early identification of 
individuals who would benefit from either early ACL reconstruction or 
rehabilitation alone might reduce resource consumption and decrease risk of 
unnecessary overtreatment.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN84752559.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/bjsports-2015-095308
PMID: 26935859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Haemophilia. 2016 Jul;22(4):507-13. doi: 10.1111/hae.12902. Epub 2016 Mar 3.

Recombinant long-acting glycoPEGylated factor IX (nonacog beta pegol) in 
haemophilia B: assessment of target joints in multinational phase 3 clinical 
trials.

Negrier C(1), Young G(2), Abdul Karim F(3), Collins PW(4), Hanabusa H(5), 
Colberg T(6), Goldman B(7), Walsh CE(8); paradigm™ 2 and 4 Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Louis Pradel, University Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Bron, France.
(2)Hemostasis and Thrombosis Center, Children's Hospital Los Angeles, University 
of Southern California Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(3)Haemophilia Centre, National Blood Centre, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(4)Arthur Bloom Haemophilia Centre, Institute of Infection and Immunity, School 
of Medicine, Cardiff University, Cardiff, UK.
(5)Department of Haematology, Ogikubo Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Haemophilia Medical & Science, Novo Nordisk A/S, Soeborg, Denmark.
(7)Haemophilia Biostatistics, Novo Nordisk A/S, Soeborg, Denmark.
(8)Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Mount Sinai Medical Center, New 
York, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: The paradigm(™) 2 and 4 phase 3 clinical trials investigated the 
safety and efficacy of nonacog beta pegol, a recombinant glycoPEGylated factor 
IX (FIX) with extended half-life, in previously treated haemophilia B patients.
AIM: These post hoc analyses investigated the bleeding patterns in target 
joints.
METHODS: Patients randomized to 40 or 10 IU kg(-1) once weekly prophylaxis who 
had at least one target joint were included. Baseline demographics and 
disease-specific data were collected. Bleeding patterns were assessed, and an 
International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis (ISTH) definition of target 
joints was used.
RESULTS: A total of 67% and 8% of patients in the 40 and 10 IU kg(-1) arm, 
respectively, did not experience target joint bleeds during the paradigm(™) 2 
trial. Twenty-four target joints were recorded in each prophylaxis arm at 
baseline. During the paradigm(™) 2 trial, no bleeds were reported in 17 (71%) 
and 7 (29%) target joints in the 40 and 10 IU kg(-1) arms respectively. All 
target joint bleeds in the 40 IU kg(-1) once weekly prophylaxis arm were 
controlled with a single injection of 40 IU kg(-1) nonacog beta pegol. By the 
latest ISTH definition, 90% and 58% of target joints in the 40 and 10 IU kg(-1) 
arms, respectively, were no longer considered target joints at the end of the 
paradigm(™) 2 trial. At the end of the paradigm(™) 4 extension trial, all target 
joints in the 40 IU kg(-1) arm were no longer considered target joints.
CONCLUSION: Routine prophylaxis with 40 IU kg(-1) once weekly nonacog beta pegol 
has the potential for effective management of target joint bleeds in haemophilia 
B patients.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hae.12902
PMID: 26936227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. J Neurotrauma. 2016 Sep 15;33(18):1724-7. doi: 10.1089/neu.2015.4155. Epub
2016  May 9.

New Insights from Clinical Assessment of Upper Extremities in Cervical Traumatic 
Spinal Cord Injury.

Carrasco-López C(1), Jimenez S(1)(2)(3), Mosqueda-Pozon MC(1), Pérez-Borrego 
YA(1), Alcobendas-Maestro M(4), Gallego-Izquierdo T(3), Esclarin-Ruz A(4), 
Oliviero A(1).

Author information:
(1)1 FENNSI Group, Hospital Nacional de Parapléjicos , SESCAM, Toledo, Spain .
(2)2 Physiotherapy Department, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid , Madrid, Spain .
(3)3 Physiotherapy Department, Alcalá de Henares University , Alcalá de Henares, 
Spain .
(4)4 Rehabilitation Department, Hospital Nacional de Parapléjicos , SESCAM, 
Toledo, Spain .

Upper extremity function has a strong impact on the quality of life in cervical 
spinal cord-injured patients. Upper extremity function depends on many factors, 
such as muscle strength, level of lesion, and extension of the cord damage in 
its axial axis produced by the injury. These variables can be obtained by the 
International Standards for Neurological Classification of Spinal Cord Injury, 
which is the standard for the functional evaluation of traumatic spinal cord 
injury (SCI) patients. The aim of this study was to describe the relationship 
between upper limb muscle strength, level of injury, and axial damage with the 
functionality of upper limb measured using the Jebsen-Taylor Hand Function Test 
(JTHFT) and the 9 Hole Peg Test (9HPT) in cervical SCI. Twenty-nine patients 
were included in this study. Our results suggest that both the JTHFT and 9HPT 
can be similarly used to quantify functional impairment after cervical SCI. 
Moreover, our data suggest that the upper extremity motor score, JTHFT, and 9HPT 
strongly correlate with the American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) impairment 
scale (graded from A to E), but not with the lesion level. Our findings can be 
of great importance for the clinician or researchers whose therapeutic 
interventions have as a main objective to improve upper limb functionality in 
patients with cervical SCI. We suggest that ASIA impairment scale, ASIA motor 
score, and functional tests (including JTHFT and/or 9HPT) could be used as 
outcome measures in cervical SCI clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1089/neu.2015.4155
PMID: 26936413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Clin Infect Dis. 2016 Jun 1;62(11):1454-1462. doi: 10.1093/cid/ciw117. Epub
2016  Mar 1.

Laboratory Monitoring of Antiretroviral Therapy for HIV Infection: 
Cost-Effectiveness and Budget Impact of Current and Novel Strategies.

Ouattara EN(1)(2)(3)(4), Robine M(5)(6), Eholié SP(3)(7), MacLean RL(5)(6), Moh 
R(3)(7), Losina E(5)(6)(8), Gabillard D(1)(2), Paltiel AD(9), Danel C(1)(2)(3), 
Walensky RP(5)(6)(10)(11)(12), Anglaret X(1)(2)(3), Freedberg 
KA(5)(6)(10)(11)(13)(14).

Author information:
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale Centre 897.
(2)Institut de Santé Publique d'Epidémiologique et de Développement, University 
of Bordeaux, France.
(3)Programme PACCI/Agence Nationale de Recherche sur le SIDA et les hépatites 
virales Research Site, Treichville University Hospital Center, Abidjan, Côte 
d'Ivoire.
(4)Interdepartmental Centre of Tropical Medicine and Clinical International 
Health, Division of Infectious and Tropical Diseases, Department of Medicine, 
University Hospital Centre, Bordeaux, France.
(5)Medical Practice Evaluation Center.
(6)Division of General Internal Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston.
(7)Department of Infectious and Tropical Diseases, Treichville University 
Hospital, Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire.
(8)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(9)Yale School of Public Health, New Haven, Connecticut.
(10)Division of Infectious Diseases, Massachusetts General Hospital.
(11)Harvard Medical School.
(12)Division of Infectious Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital.
(13)Department of Epidemiology, Boston University School of Public Health.
(14)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard T.H. Chan School of 
Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: Optimal laboratory monitoring of antiretroviral therapy (ART) for 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) remains controversial. We evaluated current 
and novel monitoring strategies in Côte d'Ivoire, West Africa.
METHODS: We used the Cost-Effectiveness of Preventing AIDS Complications 
-International model to compare clinical outcomes, cost-effectiveness, and 
budget impact of 11 ART monitoring strategies varying by type (CD4 and/or viral 
load [VL]) and frequency. We included "adaptive" strategies (biannual then 
annual monitoring for patients on ART/suppressed). Mean CD4 count at ART 
initiation was 154/μL. Laboratory test costs were CD4=$11 and VL=$33. The 
standard of care (SOC; biannual CD4) was the comparator. We assessed 
cost-effectiveness relative to Côte d'Ivoire's 2013 per capita GDP ($1500).
RESULTS: Discounted life expectancy was 16.69 years for SOC, 16.97 years with VL 
confirmation of immunologic failure, and 17.25 years for adaptive VL. Mean time 
on failed first-line ART was 3.7 years for SOC and <0.9 years for all 
routine/adaptive VL strategies. VL failure confirmation was cost-saving compared 
with SOC. Adaptive VL had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 
$4100/year of life saved compared with VL confirmation and increased the 5-year 
budget by $310/patient compared with SOC. Adaptive VL achieved an ICER <1× GDP 
if second-line ART and VL costs simultaneously decreased to $156 and $13, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: VL confirmation of immunologic failure is more effective and less 
costly than CD4 monitoring in Côte d'Ivoire. Adaptive VL monitoring reduces time 
on failing ART, is cost-effective, and should become standard in Côte d'Ivoire 
and similar settings.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press for the Infectious 
Diseases Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, e-mail 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cid/ciw117
PMCID: PMC4872286
PMID: 26936666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Int J Stroke. 2016 Jun;11(4):492-4. doi: 10.1177/1747493016632254. Epub 2016
Mar  2.

Economic Evaluation Plan (EEP) for A Very Early Rehabilitation Trial (AVERT): An 
international trial to compare the costs and cost-effectiveness of commencing 
out of bed standing and walking training (very early mobilization) within 24 h 
of stroke onset with usual stroke unit care.

Sheppard L(1), Dewey H(2), Bernhardt J(3), Collier JM(3), Ellery F(3), Churilov 
L(3), Tay-Teo K(4), Wu O(5), Moodie M(4); AVERT Trial Collaboration Group.

Author information:
(1)Deakin Health Economics, Centre for Population Health Research, Deakin 
University, Geelong, Australia The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental 
Health, Melbourne, Australia lauren.sheppard@deakin.edu.au.
(2)Eastern Health Clinical School, Faculty of Medicine, Nursing and Health 
Sciences, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.
(3)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, Melbourne, Australia.
(4)Deakin Health Economics, Centre for Population Health Research, Deakin 
University, Geelong, Australia.
(5)Institute of Health and Wellbeing, University of Glasgow, UK.

RATIONALE: A key objective of A Very Early Rehabilitation Trial is to determine 
if the intervention, very early mobilisation following stroke, is 
cost-effective. Resource use data were collected to enable an economic 
evaluation to be undertaken and a plan for the main economic analyses was 
written prior to the completion of follow up data collection.
AIM AND HYPOTHESIS: To report methods used to collect resource use data, 
pre-specify the main economic evaluation analyses and report other intended 
exploratory analyses of resource use data.
SAMPLE SIZE ESTIMATES: Recruitment to the trial has been completed. A total of 
2,104 participants from 56 stroke units across three geographic regions 
participated in the trial.
METHODS AND DESIGN: Resource use data were collected prospectively alongside the 
trial using standardised tools. The primary economic evaluation method is a 
cost-effectiveness analysis to compare resource use over 12 months with health 
outcomes of the intervention measured against a usual care comparator. A 
cost-utility analysis is also intended.
STUDY OUTCOME: The primary outcome in the cost-effectiveness analysis will be 
favourable outcome (modified Rankin Scale score 0-2) at 12 months. Cost-utility 
analysis will use health-related quality of life, reported as quality-adjusted 
life years gained over a 12 month period, as measured by the modified Rankin 
Scale and the Assessment of Quality of Life.
DISCUSSION: Outcomes of the economic evaluation analysis will inform the 
cost-effectiveness of very early mobilisation following stroke when compared to 
usual care. The exploratory analysis will report patterns of resource use in the 
first year following stroke.

© 2016 World Stroke Organization.

DOI: 10.1177/1747493016632254
PMID: 26936861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. J Mammal. 2015 Sep 29;96(5):1055-1070. doi: 10.1093/jmammal/gyv113. Epub
2015  Jul 11.

Comparisons of life-history parameters between free-ranging and captive killer 
whale (Orcinus orca) populations for application toward species management.

Robeck TR(1), Willis K(1), Scarpuzzi MR(1), O'Brien JK(1).

Author information:
(1)SeaWorld and Busch Gardens Reproductive Research Center, SeaWorld Parks and 
Entertainment , 2595 Ingraham Road, San Diego, CA 92019 , USA (TRR, JKO).

Data collected on life-history parameters of known-age animals from the northern 
(NR) and southern resident (SR) killer whales (Orcinus orca) of the eastern 
North Pacific were compared with life-history traits of killer whales located at 
SeaWorld (SEA) facilities. For captive-born SEA animals, mean age and body 
length at 1st estrus was 7.5 years and 483.7cm, respectively. Estimated mean age 
at 1st conception was different (P < 0.001) for the combined data from both 
northern and southern resident (NSR) free-ranging populations (12.1 years) 
compared to SEA (9.8 years), as was the estimated mean age at 1st observed calf 
(SEA: 11.1 years, NSR: 14.2 years, P < 0.001). Average calf survival rate to 2 
years of age for SEA animals (0.966) was significantly greater (P = 0.04) than 
that for SR (0.799). Annual survival rate (ASR) for SEA increased over 
approximately 15-year increments with rates in the most recent period (2000-2015 
ASR: 0.976) improved (P < 0.05) over the first 2 periods of captivity 
(1965-1985: 0.906; 1985-2000: 0.941). The SR (0.966) and NR ASR (0.977) were 
higher (P ≤ 0.05) than that of SEA until 2000, after which there were no 
inter-population differences. Based on ASR, median and average life expectancy 
were 28.8 and 41.6 years (SEA: 2000-2015), 20.1 and 29.0 years (SR), and 29.3 
and 42.3 years (NR), respectively. The ASR for animals born at SEA (0.979) was 
higher (P = 0.02) than that of wild-caught SEA animals (0.944) with a median and 
average life expectancy of 33.1 and 47.7 years, respectively. These data present 
evidence for similar life-history parameters of free-ranging and captive killer 
whale populations and the reproductive potential and survivorship patterns 
established herein have application for use in future research concerning the 
overall health of both populations.

DOI: 10.1093/jmammal/gyv113
PMCID: PMC4668992
PMID: 26937049


535. Drug Healthc Patient Saf. 2016 Feb 17;8:13-23. doi: 10.2147/DHPS.S95535. 
eCollection 2016.

Clinical utility, safety, and efficacy of pregabalin in the treatment of 
fibromyalgia.

Bhusal S(1), Diomampo S(1), Magrey MN(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Metrohealth Medical Center, Cleveland OH, USA.
(2)Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine at Metrohealth Medical 
Center, Cleveland OH, USA.

Fibromyalgia is a chronic debilitating medical syndrome with limited therapeutic 
options. Pregabalin, an anticonvulsant and α-2-Δ subunit receptor ligand, is one 
of the anchor drugs approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for the 
treatment of fibromyalgia. The drug has shown clinically meaningful benefits 
across multiple symptom domains of fibromyalgia. Efficacy of pregabalin in 
fibromyalgia pain has been evaluated in at least five high-quality randomized 
trials, two long-term extension studies, a meta-analysis, a Cochrane database 
systematic review, and several post hoc analyses. These studies also hint 
towards a meaningful benefit on sleep, functioning, quality of life, and work 
productivity. Side effects of pregabalin, although common, are mild to moderate 
in intensity. They are noted early during therapy, improve or disappear with 
dose reduction, and are not usually life- or organ threatening. In most 
patients, tolerance develops to the most common side effects, dizziness, and 
somnolence, with time. With close clinical monitoring at initiation or dose 
titration, pregabalin can be effectively used in primary care setting. 
Pregabalin is cost saving with long-term use and its cost-effectiveness profile 
is comparable, if not better, to that of other drugs used in fibromyalgia. In 
the present era of limited therapeutic options, pregabalin undoubtedly retains 
its role as one of cardinal drugs used in the treatment of fibromyalgia. This 
review intends to discuss the clinical utility of pregabalin in the management 
of fibromyalgia with a focus on efficacy, safety, and cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.2147/DHPS.S95535
PMCID: PMC4762578
PMID: 26937205


536. Psychodyn Psychiatry. 2016 Mar;44(1):91-104. doi: 10.1521/pdps.2016.44.1.91.

Psychodynamic Factors Behind Online Social Networking and its Excessive Use.

Li TC(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatrist in private practice.

This article discusses the psychodynamic factors behind the popularity of one 
form of Internet activity, online social networking (SN). It views online SN as 
an extension of the social self, organized in a way that is more controllable 
than real life relating. The SN platforms reward its users with reassuring 
surfaces and novel self-object experiences while at the same time induces much 
anxiety. The addictive quality of online SN is understood in the context of 
collapse of dialectical space and the defensive use of this technology.

DOI: 10.1521/pdps.2016.44.1.91
PMID: 26938801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Rev Med Suisse. 2016 Jan 27;12(503):182-3.

[Until what age do we treat cancer?].

[Article in French]

Zulian GB.

PMID: 26939173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. J Law Med. 2015 Dec;23(2):443-56.

Cutting the cord: Can society over-invest in extremely premature and critically 
impaired neonates?

Bhatia N.

This article provides a critical examination of the allocation of scarce public 
health care funds in relation to extremely premature and sick neonates. 
Decisions to withdraw or withhold life-sustaining treatment from neonates born 
extremely premature are generally informed by arbitrary and often subjective 
considerations of those involved in their care--namely parents and medical 
practitioners. This article argues for a sharp and immediate focus in decisions 
to treat such neonates based on the allocation of limited health care resources. 
Accordingly, decisions to save and preserve the lives of imperilled neonates 
should not be limited to the immediate financial costs of medical treatment. 
More explicitly there should be a full appreciation of the cost of disability to 
the family requirements for long-term care, and the benefits and associated 
costs of life, not only to the patient, but also to society.

PMID: 26939509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Exp Gerontol. 2016 Jun;78:12-22. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2016.02.014. Epub 2016
Mar  3.

Moderately lower temperatures greatly extend the lifespan of Brachionus 
manjavacas (Rotifera): Thermodynamics or gene regulation?

Johnston RK(1), Snell TW(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Biology, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA 30332-0230, 
USA. Electronic address: rachel.johnston@biology.gatech.edu.
(2)School of Biology, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA 30332-0230, 
USA.

Environmental temperature greatly affects lifespan in a wide variety of animals, 
but the exact mechanisms underlying this effect are still largely unknown. A 
moderate temperature decrease from 22°C to 16°C extends the lifespan of the 
monogonont rotifer Brachionus manjavacas by up to 163%. Thermodynamic effects on 
metabolism contribute to this increase in longevity, but are not the only cause. 
When rotifers are exposed to 16°C for four days and then transfered to 22°C, 
they survive until day 13 at nearly identical rates as rotifers maintained at 
16°C continuously. This persistence of the higher survival for nine days after 
transfer to 22°C suggests that low temperature exposure alters the expression of 
genes that affect the rate of aging. The relative persistence of the gene 
regulation effect suggests that it may play an even larger role in slowing aging 
than the thermodynamic effects. The life extending effects of these short-term 
low temperature treatments are largest when the exposure happens early in the 
life cycle, demonstrating the importance of early development. There is no 
advantage to lowering the temperature below 16°C to 11° or 5°C. Rotifers exposed 
to 16°C also displayed increased resistance to heat, starvation, oxidative and 
