resin material (Miris 2, Coltène-Whaledent). Shrinkageinduced enamel cracks were 
tracked with photography and transillumination. Samples were loaded until 
fracture or to a maximum of 185,000 cycles under isometric chewing (5 H z), 
starting with a load of 200 N (5,000 X), followed by stages of 400, 600, 800, 
1,000, 1,200, and 1,400 N at a maximum of 30,000 X each. Groups were compared 
using the life table survival analysis (α = .008, Bonferroni method).
RESULTS: Group FJ showed the highest survival rate (40% intact specimens) but 
did not differ from group KM (20%) or traditional direct restorations (13%, 
previous data). SCSR generated less shrinkage-induced cracks. Most failures were 
re-restorable (above the cementoenamel junction [CEJ]).
CONCLUSIONS: Inclusion of GIC/RMGIC bases under large direct SCSRs does not 
affect their fatigue strength but tends to decrease the shrinkage-induced crack 
propensity.
CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: The use of GIC/ RMGIC bases and the SCSR is an easy way 
to minimize polymerization shrinkage stress in large MOD defects without 
weakening the restoration.

PMID: 26835525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Work. 2015;53(2):235-40. doi: 10.3233/WOR-152243.

Effects of sleeping position on back pain in physically active seniors: A 
controlled pilot study.

Desouzart G(1), Matos R(1)(2), Melo F(3), Filgueiras E(4).

Author information:
(1)Human Movement Research Center, Polytechnic Institute of Leiria, Leiria, 
Portugal.
(2)School of Education and Social Sciences, Polytechnic Institute of Leiria, 
Leiria, Portugal.
(3)Faculty of Human Kinetics, the Technical University of Lisbon, Lisbon, 
Portugal.
(4)LabCom - University of Beira Interio, Covilhã, Portugal.

BACKGROUND: The increase in life expectancy of elderly population has aroused 
the interest of different knowledge areas in understanding the variables that 
are involved in the aging process, linking them to other concepts such as active 
aging, healthy aging and the bio-psycho-social changes.
OBJECTIVE: This paper presents the results of the first controlled, experimental 
pilot study that aimed to analyze the relationship between the perception of 
back pain and the sleeping position adopted by physically active female seniors.
METHODS: Twenty female seniors (mean age 62.70 ± 3.827) participated in this 
study. The individuals were separated in 2 groups (Experimental and Control 
Group). For the carrying out of this study, the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) was 
used to measure the intensity of back pain in the spine before and after four 
consecutive weeks an Intervention program. Individuals in the Experimental Group 
were instructed regarding the recommended way to sleep position (Intervention 
program) according to the pathological problems or the amount of pain reported.
RESULTS: The Experimental Group (N = 10) presented significantly (p = 0.009) 
fewer complaints of back pain after an Intervention program in comparison to 
individuals who did not receive this type of information (Control Group).

DOI: 10.3233/WOR-152243
PMID: 26835867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Dan Med J. 2016 Feb;63(2):B5210.

The road to success. Long-term prognosis for persons living with HIV in Denmark 
- time trends and risk factors.

Lohse N(1).

Author information:
(1)niclohse@gmail.com.

The work on this thesis began in 2003 when the global HIV epidemic was out of 
control. A minority of persons with HIV were benefitting fully from the recently 
introduced highly efficacious antiretroviral therapy (ART) combinations. Among 
the global challenges were lack of access to good healthcare, drug toxicity, and 
emergence of drug-resistant virus. It was unknown how long the drugs could 
maintain their efficacy in the individual even if administered as intended, and 
there was a fear that the increased drug pressure would increase the prevalence 
of drug resistance, subsequently leading to transmission of resistant virus from 
one individual to another, and thereby waning the treatment options available. 
Hence, we were far from the ideal conditions where an HIV-infected individual 
gets to know immediately that he/she is infected, has access to specialized 
medical and social support, receives a drug combination which effectively 
suppresses the virus and has no side effects, and is free of co-morbid 
conditions both before and after he/she gets infected. The nine papers on which 
this thesis is based each aimed to provide new knowledge to aspects of the 
above. Late diagnosis and late presentation to clinical care continue to be 
major barriers to improved HIV management. We used nation-wide hospital 
registries to explore the potential for an indicator disease-based HIV testing 
strategy. A range of conditions that were manifestations of the HIV infection 
itself were found to be associated with highly increased risk of HIV diagnosis 
during the coming year, but less so three to five years later. Other conditions 
were associated with an almost constant five-year long increased risk of being 
diagnosed with HIV because they share behavioural risk factors with HIV, making 
them indicators of not only current HIV but also of future HIV acquisition. 
Hence, indicator condition-based testing should be adapted to the local epidemic 
and could be a valuable addition to the existing detection practice. Once 
diagnosed, getting the full benefit of modern HIV care requires access to a good 
healthcare system. We compared temporal trends in quality and quantity of ART 
introduction in Den-mark and Greenland. Despite similar levels of health worker 
education and economic resources, ART implementation and mortality decline in 
Greenland lacked several years behind Denmark. The study reminded us that 
although economy may be a prerequisite for implementing an effective HIV care 
system, it is certainly not all it takes. The nationwide nature of the Danish 
HIV Cohort Study also allowed us to study a number of time trends at the 
population level. Despite what was feared, we found that the prevalence of 
triple-drug class virological failure (TCF) seemed to have stabilized after 
2000; that the incidence rates of drug resistance acquisition were decreasing 
during 1999-2005; and that the prevalence of potential transmitters of 
drug-resistant HIV decreased during 1997-2004. We also looked at some of the 
consequences of virological failure and drug resistance and found that even 
modest levels of viraemia were associated with a high risk of future failure and 
death, and that in persons who have experienced TCF, the number and pattern of 
resistance mutations were independent predictors of death. Hence, despite the 
overall positive trends in virological failure and drug-resistance development 
at the population level, our findings underline the crucial importance of always 
having an effective treatment option available for the individual patient with 
drug-resistant virus. As mortality was declining for persons with access to ART 
and good HIV care, it became important to know how long persons with HIV could 
expect to live compared to the general population. We projected long-term 
survival and found that a 25-year old person with HIV and without hepatitis C 
virus (HCV) co-infection had a 50 per cent chance of surviving another 39 years, 
only 12.2 years less than a person in a matched general population cohort would 
survive. With improved survival and declining HIV-related co-morbidity, non-HIV 
related co-morbidity became a more visible contributor to the health status of 
persons with HIV. We assessed the impact of non-HIV related comorbidity acquired 
before the person became infected with HIV. We found that 32% of the observed 
mortality in our cohort was due to HCV and co-morbidities measured by the 
Charlson Comorbidity Index, 13% corresponded to the background mortality in the 
population, and that only 55% of the mortality could be attributed to HIV. Our 
findings confirmed that persons acquiring HIV differ at large from the general 
population, and that we should not expect overall mortality rates in populations 
with HIV to reach the levels in the general population. This thesis attempted to 
map some of the many challenges on the road towards increased survival of 
individuals and populations with HIV up to a level, which today in many settings 
is close to that of the general population. The studies in this thesis have each 
paid their modest contribution to show how crucially important it is to be 
diagnosed in time, to have access to a well-functioning health system, and to 
keep free of co-morbidity both before and after acquiring HIV. After many years 
of struggle and despair, and thanks to enormous advances in prevention and 
treatment, we are now looking towards a promising future.

PMID: 26836803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Dan Med J. 2016 Feb;63(2):B5201.

Psoriasis and comorbidities. Epidemiological studies.

Egeberg A(1).

Author information:
(1)alexander.egeberg@gmail.com.

Psoriasis is a prevalent chronic inflammatory disease whose exact aetiology is 
not fully understood, but both genetic and environmental factors have been 
implicated in the onset and progression of the disease. At the skin level, 
psoriasis is characterized by localized or widespread thick raised silvery-white 
scaling and pruritic plaques and studies have shown that psoriasis negatively 
affects patients' quality of life, and depression occurs more often in patients 
with psoriasis. However, data have shown that psoriasis is a systemic disease 
which affects the joints, vasculature, and other tissues as well. Indeed, 
approximately one-third of patients with psoriasis develop psoriatic arthritis, 
and patients with severe psoriasis have a shortened life expectancy. Although 
our knowledge of the pathogenesis of psoriasis has advanced significantly in the 
past decade, as have the pharmacological treatment options which are now 
available, several important knowledge gaps remain. Many of the proinflammatory 
mediators involved in psoriasis have also been implicated in some central 
nervous system (CNS) diseases. However, studies on associations between 
psoriasis and CNS diseases are scarce. Based on nationwide registry data from 
the entire Danish population, the present thesis examined the associations 
between psoriasis and certain CNS diseases. The specific objectives of this work 
were to investigate the independent impact of depression on the risk of 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) in patients with psoriasis, the relationship 
between psoriasis and uveitis, and the risk of incident multiple sclerosis (MS) 
following the onset of psoriasis, respectively. The main results were a 
significantly increased risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, and CVD death in 
patients with psoriasis during stages of acute depression. Moreover, we found a 
bidirectional relationship between psoriasis and uveitis, where the occurrence 
of either disease significantly increased the risk of the other. Perhaps most 
notably, however, was that we found a psoriasis-severity dependent increased 
risk of MS. In conclusion, psoriasis was significantly associated with certain 
CNS diseases, and the risk of CVD was strongly associated with acute depression 
in these patients. These novel findings suggest an important link between 
psoriasis and CNS diseases, and high-light the necessity for a holistic approach 
to the diagnosis and treatment of patients with psoriasis.

PMID: 26836804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. J Manipulative Physiol Ther. 2016 Jan;39(1):31-41. doi: 
10.1016/j.jmpt.2015.12.001. Epub 2016 Feb 1.

An Electronic Patient-Reported Outcome Measures System in UK Chiropractic 
Practices: A Feasibility Study of Routine Collection of Outcomes and Costs.

Newell D(1), Diment E(2), Bolton JE(3).

Author information:
(1)Director of Research, Anglo-European College of Chiropractic, Bournemouth, 
UK. Electronic address: dnewell@aecc.ac.uk.
(2)Research Fellow, Anglo-European College of Chiropractic, Bournemouth, UK.
(3)Professor and Vice Principal, Anglo-European College of Chiropractic, 
Bournemouth, UK.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to test the feasibility of collecting 
valid and widely used health outcomes, including information concerning cost of 
care, using a Web-based patient-driven patient-reported outcome measure (PROM) 
collection process within a cohort of UK chiropractic practices.
METHODS: A Web-based PROM system (Care Response) was used. Patients with low 
back and neck pain were recruited from a group of chiropractic practices located 
in the United Kingdom. Information collected included demographic data, generic 
and condition-specific PROMs at the initial consultation and 90 days later, 
patient-reported experience measures, and additional health seeking to estimate 
costs of care.
RESULTS: A group of 33 clinics provided information from a total of 1895 
patients who completed baseline questionnaires with 844 (45%) completing the 
measures at 90-day follow-up. Subsequent outcomes suggest that more than 70% of 
patients improved over the course of treatment regardless of the outcome used. 
Using the baseline as a virtual counterfactual with respect to follow-up, we 
calculated quality-adjusted life years and the cost thereof resulting in a mean 
quality-adjusted life years gained of 0.8 with an average cost of £895 per 
quality-adjusted life year.
CONCLUSION: Routine collection of PROMs, including information about cost, is 
feasible and can be achieved using an online system within a clinical practice 
environment. We describe a Web-based collection system and discuss the choice of 
measures leading to a comprehensive understanding of outcomes and costs in 
routine practice.

Copyright © 2016 National University of Health Sciences. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmpt.2015.12.001
PMID: 26837230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Oct;36(10):1134-8.

[Study on burden of disease in Chongqing, 2010-2013].

[Article in Chinese]

Wen X(1), Sun A(2), Peng B(3), Xu X(2), Tan T(2), Xu Y(2), Hu S(1), Chen J(1), 
Que P(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Management, Research Center for Medicine and 
Social Development, Innovation Center for Social Risk Governance in Health, 
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400016, China.
(2)Chongqing Health Information Center.
(3)School of Public Health and Management, Research Center for Medicine and 
Social Development, Innovation Center for Social Risk Governance in Health, 
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400016, China; Email: 
pengbin@cqmu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: To analysis the burden of diseases (BOD) and economic burden of 
disease (EBOD) in Chongqing and provide scientific evidence for effective 
prevention and control of diseases.
METHODS: The burden of diseases of Chongqing were estimated by use of 
disability-adjusted life year (DALY) from 2010 to 2013, two-step method was used 
in the calculation of direct economic burden of diseases. DALY combined with the 
human capital method were used to measure the indirect economic burden.
RESULTS: From 2010 to 2013, DALY loss by all causes for the residents in 
Chongqing were 123.90, 127.01, 123.30 and 125.99 person year per thousand 
persons, respectively. The diseases mainly included non-communicable diseases, 
accounting for 83%-87%, followed by injure and infectious diseases. The five 
leading diseases of BOD in Chongqing were respiratory system disease, 
circulatory system disease, malignant tumor, accidental death, neuropsychiatric 
disease, respectively. The total economic burden of diseases was 1 621.34 
million yuan RMB in 2013. The direct and indirect economic burden of diseases 
were 794.42 million yuan RMB and 826.92 million yuan RMB, which could be 
attributed to circulatory system disease, respiratory system diseases, injury, 
malignant tumor and muscle bones and connective tissue diseases.
CONCLUSION: Respiratory system disease, circulatory system diseases, malignant 
tumor, and injury have caused heavy burden both in people's health and economic 
status in Chongqing. It is necessary to take effective measures to prevent and 
control these diseases.

PMID: 26837360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2015 Nov;38(5):347-54.

Health inequalities by gradients of access to water and sanitation between 
countries in the Americas, 1990 and 2010.

Mújica OJ(1), Haeberer M(2), Teague J(3), Santos-Burgoa C(3), Galvão LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Special Program on Sustainable Development and Health Equity, Pan American 
Health Organization, World Health Organization, Washington, DC, United States of 
America, mujicaos@paho.org.
(2)Gender, Diversity, and Human Rights Unit, PAHO, WHO, Washington, DC, United 
States.
(3)Occupational and Environmental Risks Unit, PAHO, WHO, Washington, DC, United 
States.

OBJECTIVE: To explore distributional inequality of key health outcomes as 
determined by access coverage to water and sanitation (WS) between countries in 
the Region of the Americas.
METHODS: An ecological study was designed to explore the magnitude and 
change-over-time of standard gap and gradient metrics of environmental 
inequalities in health at the country level in 1990 and 2010 among the 35 
countries of the Americas. Access to drinking water and access to improved 
sanitation facilities were selected as equity stratifiers. Five dependent 
variables were: total and healthy life expectancies at birth, and infant, 
under-5, and maternal mortality.
RESULTS: Access to WS correlated with survival and mortality, and strong 
gradients were seen in both 1990 and 2010. Higher WS access corresponded to 
higher life expectancy and healthy life expectancy and lower infant, under-5, 
and maternal mortality risks. Burden of life lost was unequally distributed, 
steadily concentrated among the most environmentally disadvantaged, who carried 
up to twice the burden than they would if WS were fairly distributed. Population 
averages in life expectancy and specific mortality improved, but whereas 
absolute inequalities decreased, relative inequalities remained mostly 
invariant.
CONCLUSIONS: Even with the Region on track to meet MDG 7 on water and 
sanitation, large environmental gradients and health inequities among countries 
remain hidden by Regional averages. As the post-2015 development agenda unfolds, 
policies and actions focused on health equity-mainly on the most socially and 
environmentally deprived-will be needed in order to secure the right for 
universal access to water and sanitation.

PMID: 26837519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2015 Nov;38(5):355-61.

[Public health and intellectual property in Cuba: a conceptual map].

[Article in Spanish]

García Delgado B, Di Fabio JL(1), Vidal Casanovas J, Fitzgerald J(1), Silva 
AP(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Sistemas y Servicios de Salud, Organización Panamericana de 
la Salud, Washington D.C., Estados Unidos de América, difabioj@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to analyze the legal framework for 
health and intellectual property in Cuba and its impact on people's access to 
health resources and on the roles of different social actors.
METHODS: The methods used were those developed by the Pan American Health 
Organization to implement the project of the Conceptual Map on Public Health and 
Intellectual Property.
RESULTS: Information retrieved specifically on the legal framework for the 
National Health System, the Intellectual Property System and the strengthening 
of the country's biopharmaceutical industry-and on the framework's development 
over time-was processed and analyzed to generate Cuba's Conceptual Map on Public 
Health and Intellectual Property.
CONCLUSIONS: Analysis of Cuba's adaptation of its legal framework and assessment 
of the interaction between the social actors involved show how the political 
will that has prevailed over several decades has had a positive impact on 
people's access to health resources.

PMID: 26837520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Psychol Health Med. 2017 Feb;22(2):129-137. doi:
10.1080/13548506.2016.1146404.  Epub 2016 Feb 3.

Illness perception and quality of life of HIV-positive persons: mediation 
effects of tenacious and flexible goal pursuit.

Catunda C(1)(2), Seidl EM(2), Lemétayer F(1).

Author information:
(1)a Research Unit APEMAC , Université de Lorraine , Metz , France.
(2)b Institute of Psychology, University of Brasilia , Brasilia , Brazil.

Medical advances contribute to raise life expectancy of people living with 
HIV/AIDS (PLHIV). However, they still face challenges related to the disease, 
thus, quality of life (QOL) became a priority on the field. The self-regulatory 
model (SRM) guided this study. Illness perceptions (IP) are the beliefs, 
cognitions, representations of a disease, impacting PLHIV coping strategies and 
QOL. Tenacious goal pursuit (TGP) is the pursuit of goals with determination, 
flexible goal adjustment (FGA) is doing it with flexibility, disengaging if 
necessary, they can both be considered as coping strategies. This study aims to 
measure the impact of HIV Perception in the QOL of PLHIV mediated by the TGP and 
FGA. Data was collected from 196 PLHIV with the WHOQOL-HIV Bref, the Brief-IPQ 
and the FGA and TGP scales. Structural equation model provided a good fit 
consistent with the theoretical SRM. IP, TGP and FGA had direct effects on the 
QOL of PLHIV. IP had also an indirect effect (partially mediated by TGP/FGA), 
suggesting that TGP/FGA reduce the impact of a threatening IP in the QOL. Goal 
oriented interventions should focus in the HIV perception of PLHIV to ameliorate 
their QOL.

DOI: 10.1080/13548506.2016.1146404
PMID: 26837540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2016 May 3;12(5):1202-16. doi: 
10.1080/21645515.2015.1131369. Epub 2016 Feb 2.

Economic evaluation of pediatric influenza immunization program compared with 
other pediatric immunization programs: A systematic review.

Gibson E(1), Begum N(1), Sigmundsson B(1), Sackeyfio A(2), Hackett J(3), Rajaram 
S(4).

Author information:
(1)a Wickenstones , Reading , UK.
(2)b AstraZeneca , Cambridge , UK.
(3)c AstraZeneca , Gaithersburg , MD , USA.
(4)d AstraZeneca , Paddington , London , UK.

This study compared the economic value of pediatric immunisation programmes for 
influenza to those for rotavirus (RV), meningococcal disease (MD), pneumococcal 
disease (PD), human papillomavirus (HPV), hepatitis B (Hep B), and varicella 
reported in recent (2000 onwards) cost-effectiveness (CE) studies identified in 
a systematic review of PubMed, health technology, and vaccination databases. The 
systematic review yielded 51 economic evaluation studies of pediatric 
immunisation - 10 (20%) for influenza and 41 (80%) for the other selected 
diseases. The quality of the eligible articles was assessed using Drummond's 
checklist. Although inherent challenges and limitations exist when comparing 
economic evaluations of immunisation programmes, an overall comparison of the 
included studies demonstrated cost-effectiveness/cost saving for influenza from 
a European-Union-Five (EU5) and United States (US) perspective; point estimates 
for cost/quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) from dominance (cost-saving with 
more effect) to ≤45,444 were reported. The economic value of influenza 
programmes was comparable to the other vaccines of interest, with cost/QALY in 
general considerably lower than RV, Hep B, MD and PD. Independent of the 
perspective and type of analysis, the economic impact of a pediatric influenza 
immunisation program was influenced by vaccine efficacy, immunisation coverage, 
costs, and most significantly by herd immunity. This review suggests that 
pediatric influenza immunisation may offer a cost effective strategy when 
compared with HPV and varicella and possibly more value compared with other 
childhood vaccines (RV, Hep B, MD and PD).

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2015.1131369
PMCID: PMC4963059
PMID: 26837602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. AIDS Behav. 2016 Oct;20(10):2444-2451. doi: 10.1007/s10461-016-1304-2.

Unmet HIV Service Needs Among Hispanic Men who Have Sex with Men in the United 
States.

Bonacci RA(1)(2), Holtgrave DR(3).

Author information:
(1)MPH Program, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, 
USA. rbonacci@upenn.edu.
(2)Perelman School of Medicine, Jordan Medical Education Center, University of 
Pennsylvania, 6th Floor, 3400 Civic Center Blvd, Building 421, Philadelphia, PA, 
19104-5162, USA. rbonacci@upenn.edu.
(3)Department of Health, Behavior, and Society, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School 
of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.

The National HIV/AIDS Strategy (NHAS) originally issued in 2010 targets the 
reduction of HIV-related health disparities. Hispanic men who have sex with men 
(MSM) have the third highest burden of incident HIV in the US, but there are no 
estimates of the unmet HIV service needs for Hispanic MSM. We estimate that of 
approximately 204,800 Hispanic MSM living with HIV, roughly 46,900 were 
undiagnosed. 157,900 were diagnosed, and of those, 75,700 were not linked to 
care and 82,200 were linked. Among diagnosed individuals, 48,800 had 
undetectable viral loads, and 109,100 had detectable viral loads. An estimated 
30,000 of diagnosed Hispanic MSM engage in unprotected, serodiscordant risk 
behaviors. Total cost to meet service needs and achieve NHAS goals is ~$2.511 
billion in 2011 US dollars. Transmission rate modeling suggests this investment 
would avert 3656 new HIV infections at an economically favorable cost of $61,202 
per quality-adjusted life year saved.

DOI: 10.1007/s10461-016-1304-2
PMID: 26837626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Int J Sports Med. 2016 May;37(5):411-7. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1564257. Epub
2016  Feb 2.

CNTFR Genotype and Sprint/power Performance: Case-control Association and 
Functional Studies.

Miyamoto-Mikami E(1), Fujita Y(2), Murakami H(3), Ito M(2), Miyachi M(3), 
Kawahara T(4), Fuku N(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sports and Life Science, National Institute of Fitness and 
Sports in Kanoya, Kanoya, Kagoshima Japan.
(2)Research Team for Mechanism of Aging, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of 
Gerontology, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Health Promotion and Exercise, National Institute of Health and 
Nutrition, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)General Director Research Departments, Japan Institute of Sports Sciences, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Graduate School of Health and Sports Science, Juntendo University, Chiba, 
Japan.

The aim of this study was to investigate whether rs41274853 in the 
3'-untranslated region of the ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor gene (CNTFR) 
is associated with elite sprint/power athletic status and assess its functional 
significance. A total of 211 Japanese sprint/power track and field athletes (62 
international, 72 national, and 77 regional athletes) and 814 Japanese controls 
were genotyped at rs41274853. Luciferase reporter assay was conducted to 
investigate whether this C-to-T polymorphism affects binding of microRNA 
miR-675-5p to this region. The TT genotype was significantly more frequent among 
international sprint/power athletes (19.4%) than in the controls after 
Bonferroni correction (7.9%, P=0.036, OR=2.81 [95% CI: 1.43-5.55]). Furthermore, 
in non-athletic young/middle-aged men (n=132), TT genotype carriers exhibited 
significantly greater leg extension power (26.6±5.4 vs. 24.0±5.4 W/kg BW, 
P=0.019) and vertical jump performance (50.1±6.9 vs. 47.9±7.5 cm, P=0.047) than 
the CC+CT genotype carriers. Reporter assays revealed that the miR-675-5p binds 
to this polymorphic region within the CNTFR mRNA, irrespective of the rs41274853 
allele present. Although the functional significance of the rs41274853 
polymorphism remains unclear, the CNTFR is one of the candidate genes 
contributing to sprint/power performance.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1564257
PMID: 26837930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Surg Pathol Clin. 2012 Jun;5(2):353-69. doi: 10.1016/j.path.2012.03.002.
Epub  2012 May 3.

Practical Approach to the Evaluation of Prosthetic Mechanical and Tissue 
Replacement Heart Valves.

VanderLaan PA(1), Padera RF, Schoen FJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, 75 Francis Street, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Mechanical and bioprosthetic substitute heart valves have dramatically improved 
life expectancy and quality of life in patients with valvular heart disease. 
Complications of substitute heart valves are a relatively infrequent occurrence, 
often due to thrombosis, infection, or structural/mechanical failure. It is 
important to accurately identify and systematically evaluate prosthetic heart 
valves when encountered as surgical pathology specimens or in the autopsy 
setting.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.path.2012.03.002
PMID: 26838108


214. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2016;17(1):381-6. doi: 10.7314/apjcp.2016.17.1.381.

Epidemiology, Incidence and Mortality of Bladder Cancer and their Relationship 
with the Development Index in the World.

Mahdavifar N(1), Ghoncheh M, Pakzad R, Momenimovahed Z, Salehiniya H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Zahedan University of Medical 
Sciences, Zahedan, Iran E-mail : alesaleh70@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Bladder cancer is an international public health problem. It is the 
ninth most common cancer and the fourteenth leading cause of death due to cancer 
worldwide. Given aging populations, the incidence of this cancer is rising. 
Information on the incidence and mortality of the disease, and their 
relationship with level of economic development is essential for better 
planning. The aim of the study was to investigate bladder cancer incidence and 
mortality rates, and their relationship with the the Human Development Index 
(HDI) in the world.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data were obtained from incidence and mortality rates 
presented by GLOBOCAN in 2012. Data on HDI and its components were extracted 
from the global bank site. The number and standardized incidence and mortality 
rates were reported by regions and the distribution of the disease were drawn in 
the world. For data analysis, the relationship between incidence and death 
rates, and HDI and its components was measured using correlation coefficients 
and SPSS software. The level of significance was set at 0.05.
RESULTS: In 2012, 429,793 bladder cancer cases and 165,084 bladder death cases 
occurred in the world. Five countries that had the highest age-standardized 
incidence were Belgium 17.5 per 100,000, Lebanon 16.6/100,000, Malta 
15.8/100,000, Turkey 15.2/100,000, and Denmark 14.4/100,000. Five countries that 
had the highest age-standardized death rates were Turkey 6.6 per 100,000, Egypt 
6.5/100,000, Iraq 6.3/100,000, Lebanon 6.3/100,000, and Mali 5.2/100,000. There 
was a positive linear relationship between the standardized incidence rate and 
HDI (r=0.653, P<0.001), so that there was a positive correlation between the 
standardized incidence rate with life expectancy at birth, average years of 
schooling, and the level of income per person of population. A positive linear 
relationship was also noted between the standardized mortality rate and HDI 
(r=0.308, P<0.001). There was a positive correlation between the standardized 
mortality rate with life expectancy at birth, average years of schooling, and 
the level of income per person of population.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of bladder cancer in developed countries and parts of 
Africa was higher, while the highest mortality rate was observed in the 
countries of North Africa and the Middle East. The program for better treatment 
in developing countries to reduce mortality from the cancer and more detaiuled 
studies on the etiology of are essential.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2016.17.1.381
PMID: 26838243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Europace. 2016 Jul;18(7):979-86. doi: 10.1093/europace/euv412. Epub 2016 Feb
2.

Cost effectiveness of left atrial appendage closure with the Watchman device for 
atrial fibrillation patients with absolute contraindications to warfarin.

Reddy VY(1), Akehurst RL(2), Armstrong SO(3), Amorosi SL(4), Brereton N(5), 
Hertz DS(3), Holmes DR Jr(6).

Author information:
(1)Mount Sinai Medical Center, One Gustave L. Levy Place, Box 1030, New York, NY 
10029, USA vivek.reddy@mountsinai.org.
(2)University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(3)GfK, Wayland, MA, USA.
(4)Boston Scientific, Marlborough, MA, USA.
(5)BresMed, Sheffield, UK.
(6)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.

Comment in
    Europace. 2017 May 1;19(5):882.

AIMS: Atrial fibrillation (AF) patients with contraindications to oral 
anticoagulation have had few options for stroke prevention. Recently, a novel 
oral anticoagulant, apixaban, and percutaneous left atrial appendage closure 
(LAAC) have emerged as safe and effective therapies for stroke risk reduction in 
these patients. This analysis assessed the cost effectiveness of LAAC with the 
Watchman device relative to apixaban and aspirin therapy in patients with 
non-valvular AF and contraindications to warfarin therapy.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A cost-effectiveness model was constructed using data from 
three studies on stroke prevention in patients with contraindications: the ASAP 
study evaluating the Watchman device, the ACTIVE A trial of aspirin and 
clopidogrel, and the AVERROES trial evaluating apixaban. The cost-effectiveness 
analysis was conducted from a German healthcare payer perspective over a 20-year 
time horizon. Left atrial appendage closure yielded more quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) than aspirin and apixaban by 2 and 4 years, respectively. At 5 
years, LAAC was cost effective compared with aspirin with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of €16 971. Left atrial appendage closure was 
cost effective compared with apixaban at 7 years with an ICER of €9040. Left 
atrial appendage closure was cost saving and more effective than aspirin and 
apixaban at 8 years and remained so throughout the 20-year time horizon.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis demonstrates that LAAC with the Watchman device is a 
cost-effective and cost-saving solution for stroke risk reduction in patients 
with non-valvular AF who are at risk for stroke but have contraindications to 
warfarin.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/euv412
PMCID: PMC4927063
PMID: 26838691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Stroke. 2016 Mar;47(3):742-9. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.115.011320. Epub 2016
Feb  2.

Relationship Between Collateral Status, Contrast Transit, and Contrast Density 
in Acute Ischemic Stroke.

Kawano H(1), Bivard A(1), Lin L(1), Spratt NJ(1), Miteff F(1), Parsons MW(1), 
Levi CR(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Neurology, John Hunter Hospital, Hunter Medical 
Research Institute, and the University of Newcastle, Newcastle, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(2)From the Department of Neurology, John Hunter Hospital, Hunter Medical 
Research Institute, and the University of Newcastle, Newcastle, New South Wales, 
Australia. Christopher.Levi@hnehealth.nsw.gov.au.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Collateral circulation is recognized to influence the 
life expectancy of the ischemic penumbra in acute ischemic stroke. The best 
method to quantify collateral status on acute imaging is uncertain. We aimed to 
determine the relationship between visual collateral status, quantitative 
collateral assessments, baseline computed tomographic perfusion measures, and 
tissue outcomes on follow-up imaging.
METHODS: Sixty-six consecutive patients with acute ischemic stroke clinically 
eligible for recanalization therapy and with M1 or M2 middle cerebral artery 
occlusion were evaluated. We compared the visual collateral scoring with 
measures of contrast peak time delay and contrast peak density. We also compared 
these measures for their ability to predict perfusion lesion and infarct core 
volumes, final infarct, and infarct growth.
RESULTS: Shorter contrast peak time delay (P=0.041) and higher contrast peak 
density (P=0.002) were associated with good collateral status. Shorter contrast 
peak time delay correlated with higher contrast peak density (β=-4.413; 
P=0.037). In logistic regression analysis after adjustment for age, sex, 
onset-computed tomographic time, and occlusion site, higher contrast peak 
density was independently associated with good collateral status (P=0.009). 
Multiple regression analysis showed that higher contrast peak density was an 
independent predictor of smaller perfusion lesion volume (P=0.029), smaller 
ischemic core volume (P=0.044), smaller follow-up infarct volume (P=0.005), and 
smaller infarct growth volume (P=0.010).
CONCLUSIONS: Visual collateral status, contrast peak density, and contrast peak 
time delay were inter-related, and good collateral status was strongly 
associated with contrast peak density. Contrast peak density in collateral 
vessel may be an important factor in tissue fate in acute ischemic stroke.

© 2016 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.115.011320
PMID: 26839354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. PLoS One. 2016 Feb 3;11(2):e0147425. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0147425. 
eCollection 2016.

Revisiting the Life Cycle of Dung Fungi, Including Sordaria fimicola.

Newcombe G(1), Campbell J(1)(2), Griffith D(3)(4), Baynes M(3), Launchbaugh 
K(1), Pendleton R(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Forest, Rangelands and Fire Sciences, University of Idaho, 
Moscow, Idaho, United States of America.
(2)Palouse Research, Education and Extension Center, University of Idaho, 
Moscow, Idaho, United States of America.
(3)Environmental Sciences Program, University of Idaho, Moscow, Idaho, United 
States of America.
(4)Center for Resilient Communities, University of Idaho, Moscow, Idaho, United 
States of America.
(5)US Forest Service, Rocky Mountain Research Station, Albuquerque, New Mexico, 
United States of America.

Dung fungi, such as Sordaria fimicola, generally reproduce sexually with 
ascospores discharged from mammalian dung after passage through herbivores. 
Their life cycle is thought to be obligate to dung, and thus their ascospores in 
Quaternary sediments have been interpreted as evidence of past mammalian 
herbivore activity. Reports of dung fungi as endophytes would seem to challenge 
the view that they are obligate to dung. However, endophyte status is 
controversial because surface-sterilization protocols could fail to kill dung 
fungus ascospores stuck to the plant surface. Thus, we first tested the ability 
of representative isolates of three common genera of dung fungi to affect plant 
growth and fecundity given that significant effects on plant fitness could not 
result from ascospores merely stuck to the plant surface. Isolates of S. 
fimicola, Preussia sp., and Sporormiella sp. reduced growth and fecundity of two 
of three populations of Bromus tectorum, the host from which they had been 
isolated. In further work with S. fimicola we showed that inoculations of roots 
of B. tectorum led to some colonization of aboveground tissues. The same isolate 
of S. fimicola reproduced sexually on inoculated host plant tissues as well as 
in dung after passage through sheep, thus demonstrating a facultative rather 
than an obligate life cycle. Finally, plants inoculated with S. fimicola were 
not preferred by sheep; preference had been expected if the fungus were obligate 
to dung. Overall, these findings make us question the assumption that these 
fungi are obligate to dung.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0147425
PMCID: PMC4739622
PMID: 26839959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


218. Nutrients. 2016 Jan 29;8(2):73. doi: 10.3390/nu8020073.

Resveratrol Supplementation in Schizophrenia Patients: A Randomized Clinical 
Trial Evaluating Serum Glucose and Cardiovascular Risk Factors.

Zortea K(1)(2), Franco VC(3)(4), Francesconi LP(5)(6), Cereser KM(7)(8), Lobato 
MI(9)(10), Belmonte-de-Abreu PS(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Schizophrenia Program, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre 
90035-903, RS, Brazil. karine.personaldiet@gmail.com.
(2)Postgraduate Program in Medicine: Psychiatry, Universidade Federal do Rio 
Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre 90035-903, RS, Brazil. 
karine.personaldiet@gmail.com.
(3)Schizophrenia Program, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre 
90035-903, RS, Brazil. vcarvalhofranco@gmail.com.
(4)Postgraduate Program in Medicine: Psychiatry, Universidade Federal do Rio 
Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre 90035-903, RS, Brazil. vcarvalhofranco@gmail.com.
(5)Schizophrenia Program, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre 
90035-903, RS, Brazil. le.petter@ig.com.br.
(6)Postgraduate Program in Medicine: Psychiatry, Universidade Federal do Rio 
Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre 90035-903, RS, Brazil. le.petter@ig.com.br.
(7)Schizophrenia Program, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre 
90035-903, RS, Brazil. keila.cereser@uol.com.br.
(8)Postgraduate Program in Medicine: Psychiatry, Universidade Federal do Rio 
Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre 90035-903, RS, Brazil. keila.cereser@uol.com.br.
(9)Schizophrenia Program, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre 
90035-903, RS, Brazil. mirlobato@gmail.com.
(10)Postgraduate Program in Medicine: Psychiatry, Universidade Federal do Rio 
Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre 90035-903, RS, Brazil. mirlobato@gmail.com.
(11)Schizophrenia Program, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre 
90035-903, RS, Brazil. pbabreu@gmail.com.
(12)Postgraduate Program in Medicine: Psychiatry, Universidade Federal do Rio 
Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre 90035-903, RS, Brazil. pbabreu@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Patients with schizophrenia (SZ) are generally overweight or obese 
and have several metabolic disorders. Additionally, such patients have a lower 
life expectancy and the main cause of their increased mortality is 
cardiovascular disease (CVD). The objective of this study was to determine the 
efficacy of resveratrol supplementation on serum glucose and CVD risk factors in 
individuals with SZ.
METHODS AND RESULTS: This is a four-week randomized, double-blind controlled 
trial (registration No.: NCT 02062190) in which 19 men with a diagnosis of SZ, 
aged 18 to 65, were assigned to either a resveratrol supplement group (200 
mg/day) or a placebo group (200 mg/day). In short, we did not observe 
significant changes after resveratrol supplementation. In the placebo group, we 
found a significant increase in total cholesterol levels (p = 0.024) and in 
LDL-cholesterol (p = 0.002), as well as a decrease in body fat percentage (p = 
0.038). The placebo group also showed an increase in triglycerides (9.19%) and a 
reduction in HDL-cholesterol (4.88%). In the resveratrol group, triglycerides 
decreased (7.64%).
CONCLUSION: In summary, oral resveratrol in reasonably low dosages (200 mg 
daily) brought no differences to body weight, waist circumference, glucose, and 
total cholesterol. It was possible to note that the lipid profile in the placebo 
group worsened and, although no significant differences were found, we can 
assume that resveratrol might prevent lipid profile damage and that the 
intervention affected the lipoprotein metabolism at various levels.

DOI: 10.3390/nu8020073
PMCID: PMC4772037
PMID: 26840331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. PLoS One. 2016 Feb 3;11(2):e0146820. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0146820. 
eCollection 2016.

Projected Impact of Salt Restriction on Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease in 
China: A Modeling Study.

Wang M(1), Moran AE(2), Liu J(1), Coxson PG(3), Penko J(3), Goldman L(4), 
Bibbins-Domingo K(3), Zhao D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Beijing Anzhen Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing Institute of Heart, Lung and Blood Vessel Diseases, Beijing, 
China.
(2)Division of General Medicine, Department of Medicine, Columbia University, 
New York, New York, United States of America.
(3)Division of General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of 
California at San Francisco, San Francisco, United States of America.
(4)Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, New York, 
United States of America.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the effects of achieving China's national goals for 
dietary salt (NaCl) reduction or implementing culturally-tailored dietary salt 
restriction strategies on cardiovascular disease (CVD) prevention.
METHODS: The CVD Policy Model was used to project blood pressure lowering and 
subsequent downstream prevented CVD that could be achieved by population-wide 
salt restriction in China. Outcomes were annual CVD events prevented, relative 
reductions in rates of CVD incidence and mortality, quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) gained, and CVD treatment costs saved.
RESULTS: Reducing mean dietary salt intake to 9.0 g/day gradually over 10 years 
could prevent approximately 197 000 incident annual CVD events [95% uncertainty 
interval (UI): 173 000-219 000], reduce annual CVD mortality by approximately 
2.5% (2.2-2.8%), gain 303 000 annual QALYs (278 000-329 000), and save 
approximately 1.4 billion international dollars (Int$) in annual CVD costs 
(Int$; 1.2-1.6 billion). Reducing mean salt intake to 6.0 g/day could 
approximately double these benefits. Implementing cooking salt-restriction 
spoons could prevent 183 000 fewer incident CVD cases (153 000-215 000) and 
avoid Int$1.4 billion in CVD treatment costs annually (1.2-1.7 billion). 
Implementing a cooking salt substitute strategy could lead to approximately 
three times the health benefits of the salt-restriction spoon program. More than 
three-quarters of benefits from any dietary salt reduction strategy would be 
realized in hypertensive adults.
CONCLUSION: China could derive substantial health gains from implementation of 
population-wide dietary salt reduction policies. Most health benefits from any 
dietary salt reduction program would be realized in adults with hypertension.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0146820
PMCID: PMC4739496
PMID: 26840409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


220. Alzheimer Dis Assoc Disord. 2016 Jul-Sep;30(3):281-7. doi: 
10.1097/WAD.0000000000000140.

Dementia and Cognitive Impairment Prevalence and Associated Factors in 
Indigenous Populations: A Systematic Review.

de Souza-Talarico JN(1), de Carvalho AP, Brucki SM, Nitrini R, 
Ferretti-Rebustini RE.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Medical-Surgical Nursing, School of Nursing †Department of 
Neurology, Medical School, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

Population aging has been accompanied by worldwide growth in dementia. However, 
little is known about the prevalence of dementia and cognitive impairment not 
dementia in ethnically diverse populations, such as indigenous populations 
conceptualized as groups of persons who self-identify as indigenous and who are 
recognized as distinctive communities reproducing ancestral, historical, and 
territorial culture. This is particularly relevant in view of increasing life 
expectancy in indigenous populations and, consequently, in the number of elderly 
people, as well as the changes in their multimorbidity profile. In this study, a 
systematic review of the literature on the subject "cognitive impairment in 
indigenous elderly population" in the databases MEDLINE via PubMed, Lilacs, and 
Scopus showed that the prevalence of dementia in indigenous populations between 
45 and 94 years old, originally from different countries, varied between 0.5% 
and 26.8% for age 60 and older, whereas the prevalence of cognitive impairment 
not dementia varied between 4.4% and 17.7%. Early onset of the disease, older 
age, low education level, and several poor health conditions were associated 
with prevalence rates and conversion from normal to any cognitive impairment. 
Cultural inadequacy of neuropsychological tests was the main factor reported in 
the selected studies, which makes the investigation of dementia a challenge in 
indigenous populations. These data reveal that the prevalence rates of dementia 
ranged from low to very high for those aged 60 years and older, with early onset 
of the disease and elevated mortality rate after initial diagnosis compared with 
the current global prevalence studies, suggesting that these individuals may be 
more vulnerable to cognitive disorders. Cognitive reserve and exposure to poor 
health status throughout life span may be considered in the interpretation of 
results.

DOI: 10.1097/WAD.0000000000000140
PMID: 26840546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. J Palliat Med. 2016 Feb;19(2):195-201. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2015.0268.

Palliative Care Teams as Advocates for Adults with Sickle Cell Disease.

Ajayi TA(1)(2), Edmonds KP(3), Thornberry K(3), Atayee RA(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Pediatrics, Rady Children's Hospital , San Diego, California.
(2)2 Scripps Translational Science Institute , La Jolla, California.
(3)3 Doris A. Howell Palliative Care Service, University of California San Diego 
, La Jolla, California.
(4)4 Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of 
California San Diego , La Jolla, California.

Medical advances have improved the overall life expectancy of patients with 
sickle cell disease (SCD). Unfortunately, the quality of life for patients with 
SCD remains a struggle. As the goal of palliative care (PC) is to improve 
quality of life for patients with serious illnesses, many PC teams are now asked 
to be involved in the care of these patients and may have variable levels of 
experience with SCD. Caring for patients with SCD is a complex and difficult 
task that often causes a reflexive "groan" from health care providers, which 
usually signifies a negative health care provider attitude stemmed from feeling 
uncomfortable in treating this complex patient population. It is important to be 
aware of these implicit biases and to overcome these feelings by becoming more 
familiar with the lives and experiences of those with SCD. This report provides 
an overview of SCD, context for the complexity of caring for this patient 
population, and areas for partnering in care.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2015.0268
PMID: 26840856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. PLoS One. 2016 Feb 3;11(2):e0148255. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0148255. 
eCollection 2016.

Recombinant Factor IX Fc Fusion Protein Maintains Full Procoagulant Properties 
and Exhibits Prolonged Efficacy in Hemophilia B Mice.

Toby GG(1), Liu T(1), Buyue Y(1), Zhang X(1), Bitonti AJ(1), Pierce GF(1), 
Sommer JM(1), Jiang H(1), Peters RT(1).

Author information:
(1)Biogen, Cambridge, MA, United States of America.

INTRODUCTION: Hemophilia B is an inherited X chromosome-linked disorder 
characterized by impaired blood clotting owing to the absence of functional 
coagulation factor IX. Due to the relatively short half-life of factor IX, 
patients with hemophilia B require frequent factor IX infusions to maintain 
prophylaxis. We have developed a recombinant factor IX (rFIX) fused to the Fc 
region of IgG (rFIXFc) with an extended half-life in animals and humans.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Procoagulant properties of rFIXFc and rFIX (BENEFIX®) 
were compared to determine the effect of the Fc region on rFIXFc hemostatic 
function. Specifically, we assessed rFIXFc activation, intermolecular 
interactions within the Xase complex, inactivation by antithrombin III (AT) and 
thrombin generation potential compared with rFIX. We also assessed the acute and 
prophylactic efficacy profiles of rFIXFc and rFIX in vivo in hemophilia B mouse 
bleeding models.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The activation by factor XIa or factor VIIa/tissue 
factor, inhibition by AT, interaction profiles with phospholipids, affinities 
for factor VIIIa within the context of the Xase complex, and thrombin generation 
profiles were similar for rFIXFc and rFIX. Xase complexes formed with either 
molecule exhibited similar kinetic profiles for factor Xa generation. In acute 
efficacy models, mice infused with rFIXFc or rFIX were equally protected from 
bleeding. However, in prophylactic efficacy models, protection from bleeding was 
maintained approximately three times longer in rFIXFc-dosed mice than in those 
given rFIX; this prolonged efficacy correlates with the previously observed 
half-life extension. We conclude that rFIXFc retains critical FIX procoagulant 
attributes and that the extension in rFIXFc half-life translates into prolonged 
efficacy in hemophilia B mice.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0148255
PMCID: PMC4740463
PMID: 26840952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: This study was funded by 
Biogen. Garabet G. Toby, Tongyao Liu, Yang Buyue, Xin Zhang, Alan J. Bitonti, 
Glenn F. Pierce, Jurg M. Sommer, Haiyan Jiang, and Robert T. Peters were 
employees of and held equity interest in Biogen at the time of this research. 
This work is directly related to the marketed product, ALPROLIX® (rFIXFc), and 
several of the authors are named as inventors on a number of patents and pending 
applications covering rFIXFc, filed in the US and throughout the world (for 
example, US Patent Nos. 7,404,956; 7,348,004; 7,862,820; 8,329,182; and 
8,932,830: “Immunoglobulin chimeric monomer-dimer hybrids”; and USSN 13/793,796: 
“Factor IX polypeptides and methods of use thereof”). This does not alter the 
authors' adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials, 
as detailed online in the guide for authors.


223. PLoS One. 2016 Feb 3;11(2):e0148012. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0148012. 
eCollection 2016.

Loss of Endothelial Barrier in Marfan Mice (mgR/mgR) Results in Severe 
Inflammation after Adenoviral Gene Therapy.

Seppelt PC(1), Schwill S(1), Weymann A(1), Arif R(1), Weber A(1), Zaradzki M(1), 
Richter K(2), Ensminger S(3), Robinson PN(4)(5), Wagner AH(6), Karck M(1), 
Kallenbach K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, University Hospital Heidelberg, Heidelberg, 
Germany.
