(9)EquiNew, 8139 900th Street , River Falls, WI, USA.
(10)Anatomy Department, Southern Illinois University, School of Medicine , 
Carbondale, Illinois, USA.

There is something in our genome that dictates life expectancy and there is 
nothing that can be done to avoid this; indeed, there is not yet any record of a 
person who has cheated death. Our physical prowess can vacillate substantially 
in our lifetime according to our activity levels and nutritional status and we 
may fight aging, but we will inevitably lose. We have presented strong evidence 
that the atrophy which accompanies aging is to some extent caused by loss of 
innervation. We compared muscle biopsies of sedentary seniors to those of life 
long active seniors, and show that these groups indeed have a different 
distribution of muscle fiber diameter and fiber type. The senior sportsmen have 
many more slow fiber-type groupings than the sedentary people which provides 
strong evidence of denervation-reinnervation events in muscle fibers. It appears 
that activity maintains the motoneurons and the muscle fibers. Premature or 
accelerated aging of muscle may occur as the result of many chronic diseases. 
One extreme case is provided by irreversible damage of the Conus and Cauda 
Equina, a spinal cord injury (SCI) sequela in which the human leg muscles may be 
completely and permanently disconnected from the nervous system with the almost 
complete disappearance of muscle fibers within 3-5 years from SCI. In cases of 
this extreme example of muscle degeneration, we have used 2D Muscle Color CT to 
gather data supporting the idea that electrical stimulation of denervated 
muscles can retain and even regain muscle. We show here that, if people are 
compliant, atrophy can be reversed. A further example of activity-related muscle 
adaptation is provided by the fact that mitochondrial distribution and density 
are significantly changed by functional electrical stimulation in horse muscle 
biopsies relative to those not receiving treatment. All together, the data 
indicate that FES is a good way to modify behaviors of muscle fibers by 
increasing the contraction load per day. Indeed, it should be possible to defer 
the muscle decline that occurs in aging people and in those who have become 
unable to participate in physical activities. Thus, FES should be considered for 
use in rehabilitation centers, nursing facilities and in critical care units 
when patients are completely inactive even for short periods of time.

DOI: 10.4081/ejtm.2015.5272
PMCID: PMC4748978
PMID: 26913160


457. Eur J Transl Myol. 2015 Aug 25;25(4):237-42. doi: 10.4081/ejtm.2015.5374. 
eCollection 2015 Aug 24.

Physical Exercise in Aging: Nine Weeks of Leg Press or Electrical Stimulation 
Training in 70 Years Old Sedentary Elderly People.

Zampieri S(1), Mosole S(2), Löfler S(3), Fruhmann H(3), Burggraf S(3), Cvečka 
J(4), Hamar D(4), Sedliak M(4), Tirptakova V(4), Šarabon N(5), Mayr W(6), Kern 
H(3).

Author information:
(1)Venetian Institute of Molecular Medicine (VIMM), Padova, Italy; Department of 
Biomedical Sciences, Padova, Italy; Ludwig Boltzmann Institute of Electrical 
Stimulation and Physical Rehabilitation, Vienna, Austria.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences , Padova, Italy.
(3)Ludwig Boltzmann Institute of Electrical Stimulation and Physical 
Rehabilitation , Vienna, Austria.
(4)Faculty of Physical Education and Sport, Comenius University , Bratislava, 
Slovakia.
(5)University of Primorska , Science and Research Centre, Institute for 
Kinesilogical Research, Koper, Slovenia.
(6)Center of Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering, Medical University of 
Vienna , Austria.

Sarcopenia is the age-related loss of muscle mass and function, reducing force 
generation and mobility in the elderlies. Contributing factors include a severe 
decrease in both myofiber size and number as well as a decrease in the number of 
motor neurons innervating muscle fibers (mainly of fast type) which is sometimes 
accompanied by reinnervation of surviving slow type motor neurons (motor unit 
remodeling). Reduced mobility and functional limitations characterizing aging 
can promote a more sedentary lifestyle for older individuals, leading to a 
vicious circle further worsening muscle performance and the patients' quality of 
life, predisposing them to an increased risk of disability, and mortality. 
Several longitudinal studies have shown that regular exercise may extend life 
expectancy and reduce morbidity in aging people. Based on these findings, the 
Interreg IVa project aimed to recruit sedentary seniors with a normal life style 
and to train them for 9 weeks with either leg press (LP) exercise or electrical 
stimulation (ES). Before and at the end of both training periods, all the 
subjects were submitted to mobility functional tests and muscle biopsies from 
the Vastus Lateralis muscles of both legs. No signs of muscle damage and/or of 
inflammation were observed in muscle biopsies after the training. Functional 
tests showed that both LP and ES induced improvements of force and mobility of 
the trained subjects. Morphometrical and immunofluorescent analyses performed on 
muscle biopsies showed that ES significantly increased the size of fast type 
muscle fibers (p<0.001), together with a significant increase in the number of 
Pax7 and NCAM positive satellite cells (p<0.005). A significant decrease of slow 
type fiber diameter was observed in both ES and LP trained subjects (p<0.001). 
Altogether these results demonstrate the effectiveness of physical exercise 
either voluntary (LP) or passive (ES) to improve the functional performances of 
aging muscles. Here ES is demonstrated to be a safe home-based method to 
counteract fast type fiber atrophy, typically associated with aging skeletal 
muscle.

DOI: 10.4081/ejtm.2015.5374
PMCID: PMC4748981
PMID: 26913162


458. The Changing Global Burden of Cancer: Transitions in Human Development and 
Implications for Cancer Prevention and Control.

Bray F, Soerjomataram I.

In: Gelband H, Jha P, Sankaranarayanan R, Horton S, editors. Cancer: Disease 
Control Priorities, Third Edition (Volume 3). Washington (DC): The International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development / The World Bank; 2015 Nov 1. Chapter 2.

Changes in fertility and life expectancy are leading to major changes in the 
structure of the global population and, in turn, in the scale of the cancer 
problem worldwide and at every resource level (WHO 2011b). In addition to the 
increasing burden of cancer is a changing spectrum of common cancers that is in 
different regions correlated with levels of human development (Bray and others 
2012). The ongoing cancer transition includes a reduction in infection-related 
cancers (for example, stomach and cervical cancer) that is offset by increases 
in cancers linked to a Westernization of lifestyle (for example, breast, 
prostate, and colorectal cancer). The transition also encompasses changes in 
risk behavior, including tobacco uptake, with a delayed but large impact on the 
burden from lung and other tobacco-related cancers (Bray and others 2012). The 
cancer transition is not uniform, however: in Sub-Saharan Africa, recent 
increases in cervical cancer are observed in Uganda and Zimbabwe; in many 
countries, a residual burden of cancers associated with infectious agents 
accompanies the increasing burden of cancers associated with economic transition 
(Parkin and others 2014). This chapter presents a global overview of the cancer 
burden, patterns and profiles, recent trends in common cancers, and the expected 
future scale of the disease by 2030. We link geographical and temporal patterns 
of cancer to corresponding levels of economic progress to provide an overview of 
the key characteristics of the global cancer transition. We use gross national 
income (GNI) per capita as a national indicator of societal as well as economic 
development (http://data.worldbank.org/news/new-country-classifications), and 
corresponding rates of cancer incidence and mortality as markers of the extent 
of the global cancer transition. We draw attention to geographical variations 
and trends in cancer-specific rates according to differing economic profiles and 
in each of the world’s regions. In addition, we provide a global, trends-based 
projection of the likely cancer burden in 2030, based on historical trends 
refined by incorporating an indicator of level of development. We also examine 
the number of potentially avoidable new cases and cancer deaths, assuming a 
reduction in risk factors (Hanley 2001). Even today, tobacco smoking is by far 
the most important risk factor for cancer (Lim and others 2012). Although the 
smoking habit is in decline in many high-income countries (HICs), tobacco 
consumption is still rising in many low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) 
(Thun and others 2012). As part of the global socioeconomic transition, many 
countries presently classified as low- or middle-income are increasingly 
adopting Westernized diets and more sedentary and less physically active 
lifestyles, leading to a rapid shift in the profile of common cancers in these 
populations (Bray and others 2012). In view of these developments, this chapter 
also reviews the main causes of cancer, with an emphasis on the sources of 
disparities that contribute to an increasingly greater proportional burden from 
cancer in LMICs, and the prospects for cancer control in different settings. We 
conclude by pointing to how the high-level political commitment to reduce the 
rising burden of cancer and other noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) can advance 
the measurement of cancer to inform cancer control action. There remains an 
overwhelming need to improve the quality and coverage of population-based cancer 
registration in most LMICs, as an essential component in planning and evaluating 
national cancer control activities. This chapter uses the World Health 
Organization’s (WHO) geographical regions: Africa, the Americas, South-East 
Asia, Europe, Eastern Mediterranean, and Western Pacific.

© 2015 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / The World Bank.

DOI: 10.1596/978-1-4648-0349-9_ch2
PMID: 26913347


459. Summary.

Gelband H, Jha P, Sankaranarayanan R, Gauvreau CL, Horton S.

In: Gelband H, Jha P, Sankaranarayanan R, Horton S, editors. Cancer: Disease 
Control Priorities, Third Edition (Volume 3). Washington (DC): The International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development / The World Bank; 2015 Nov 1. Chapter 1.

At the 2012 World Health Assembly, member states agreed to a goal of reducing 
rates of premature death from noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) by 25 percent by 
2025, starting from a 2008 baseline (WHO 2011a, 2011b). The United Nations (UN) 
Sustainable Development Goals for 2030, announced in September 2015, will 
include reducing premature death from NCDs, of which cancer is a substantial 
part (map 1.1). This chapter summarizes the analyses and conclusions of the 79 
authors of this volume on cancer, Disease Control Priorities, 3rd edition (DCP3 
Cancer), and analyzes interventions for effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, 
affordability, and feasibility in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs; see 
box 1.1 for key messages). The intent is to help governments of LMICs commit to 
locally appropriate national cancer control strategies that will include a range 
of cost-effective interventions, customized to local epidemiological patterns 
and available funding, and to convey this commitment widely to their 
populations. Where affordable treatment can be provided, conveying this to the 
public can motivate people to seek treatment when their cancer is at an earlier, 
much more curable stage. Providing a package of services that addresses a large 
part of the cancer burden will go a long way toward helping countries reach the 
new NCD goals. DCP3 Cancer is one of nine planned volumes in the DCP3 series 
(box 1.2). The DCP3 package includes prevention strategies, but many cancers 
cannot be prevented to any great extent by available methods. Some can be 
treated effectively (breast and childhood cancers, for example), however, and 
the availability of effective treatment bolsters public confidence in the 
overall program (Brown and others 2006; Knaul and others 2011; Sloan and Gelband 
2007). Cancer control programs can mobilize broad political support, as happened 
in Mexico with the addition of breast cancer and childhood cancer treatment into 
expanded national health insurance coverage (Knaul and others 2012). In 
high-income countries (HICs), most who develop cancer survive, although survival 
depends strongly on the type of cancer (table 1.1). In LMICs, less than 
one-third survive, and in some the proportion is much smaller (Ferlay and others 
2015). The differences in survival are due partly to differences in the patterns 
of cancer incidence; some types of cancer that are common in many LMICs, such as 
lung, esophagus, stomach, and liver cancers, have a poor prognosis even in HICs 
(Bray and Soerjomataram 2015, chapter 2 in this volume). The other major 
contributor to poor outcomes is that many fewer people come for treatment when 
their cancer is at an early, curable stage than in HICs (Allemani and others 
2015; Ferlay and others 2015). The aim of DCP3 is to identify cost-effective, 
feasible, and affordable interventions that address significant disease burdens 
in LMICs (box 1.3). Accordingly, we have examined the following: 1. The 
avoidable burden of premature death (defined as before age 70, which 
approximates current global life expectancy) from cancer in LMICs (table 1.1). 
2. The main effective interventions for the prevention, early detection, 
treatment, and palliation of cancer, and their cost-effectiveness. 3. The costs 
and feasibility of developing health system infrastructure that could deliver 
progressively wider coverage of a set of cost-effective cancer services. Using 
these inputs, we define an “essential package” of cost-effective interventions 
for cancer and discuss their affordability and feasibility, which differ 
markedly between low-, lower-middle-, and upper-middle-income countries. Even 
within the same income categories, countries may differ widely in 
epidemiological patterns and health systems, resulting in different 
country-specific essential packages. Hence, this is not intended to lead to a 
common cancer plan for all LMICs, but to identify elements that will be 
appropriate in many countries and spur discussion within countries about 
rational cancer control planning and implementation. The result would be 
national cancer plans that are tailored to local conditions but retain the 
characteristics of effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, feasibility, and 
affordability. Finally, we review some ways in which global initiatives could 
help LMICs to expand cancer control.

© 2015 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / The World Bank.

DOI: 10.1596/978-1-4648-0349-9_ch1
PMID: 26913348


460. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2016 Jun;14(3):337-47. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-016-0230-9.

Measuring Efficiency of Health Systems of the Middle East and North Africa 
(MENA) Region Using Stochastic Frontier Analysis.

Hamidi S(1), Akinci F(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Environmental Studies, Hamdan Bin Mohammad Smart 
University, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. s.hamidi@hbmsu.ac.ae.
(2)Health Care Administration, The William G. McGowan School of Business, King's 
College, Wilkes-Barre, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The main purpose of this study is to measure the technical efficiency 
of twenty health systems in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region to 
inform evidence-based health policy decisions. In addition, the effects of 
alternative stochastic frontier model specification on the empirical results are 
examined.
METHODS: We conducted a stochastic frontier analysis to estimate the 
country-level technical efficiencies using secondary panel data for 20 MENA 
countries for the period of 1995-2012 from the World Bank database. We also 
tested the effect of alternative frontier model specification using three 
random-effects approaches: a time-invariant model where efficiency effects are 
assumed to be static with regard to time, and a time-varying efficiency model 
where efficiency effects have temporal variation, and one model to account for 
heterogeneity.
RESULTS: The average estimated technical inefficiency of health systems in the 
MENA region was 6.9 % with a range of 5.7-7.9 % across the three models. Among 
the top performers, Lebanon, Qatar, and Morocco are ranked consistently high 
according to the three different inefficiency model specifications. On the 
opposite side, Sudan, Yemen and Djibouti ranked among the worst performers. On 
average, the two most technically efficient countries were Qatar and Lebanon. We 
found that the estimated technical efficiency scores vary substantially across 
alternative parametric models.
CONCLUSION: Based on the findings reported in this study, most MENA countries 
appear to be operating, on average, with a reasonably high degree of technical 
efficiency compared with other countries in the region. However, there is 
evidence to suggest that there are considerable efficiency gains yet to be made 
by some MENA countries. Additional empirical research is needed to inform future 
health policies aimed at improving both the efficiency and sustainability of the 
health systems in the MENA region.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-016-0230-9
PMID: 26914550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Clin Drug Investig. 2016 Apr;36(4):305-12. doi: 10.1007/s40261-016-0381-3.

The Cost Effectiveness of Lisdexamfetamine Dimesylate for the Treatment of Binge 
Eating Disorder in the USA.

Ágh T(1), Pawaskar M(2), Nagy B(3)(4), Lachaine J(5), Vokó Z(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Syreon Research Institute, 119 Thököly Street, 1146, Budapest, Hungary. 
tamas.agh@syreon.eu.
(2)Shire, 735 Chesterbrook Boulevard, Wayne, PA, 19087, USA.
(3)Syreon Research Institute, 119 Thököly Street, 1146, Budapest, Hungary.
(4)Department of Health Policy and Health Economics, Faculty of Social Sciences, 
Eötvös Loránd University, 1/a Pázmány Péter Street, 1117, Budapest, Hungary.
(5)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Montreal, 2940 Chemin de la Polytechnique, 
Montréal, QC, H3T 1J4, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Lisdexamfetamine dimesylate (LDX) demonstrated efficacy in terms of 
reduced binge eating days per week in adults with binge eating disorder (BED) in 
two randomized clinical trials (RCTs).
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to evaluate the cost effectiveness of 
LDX versus no pharmacotherapy (NPT) in adults with BED from a USA healthcare 
payer's perspective.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: A decision-analytic Markov cohort model was developed 
using 1-week cycles and a 52-week time horizon. Markov health states were 
defined based upon the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 
5th Edition criteria of BED. Model parameter estimates were obtained from RCTs, 
a survey, and literature. The primary outcome was incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER). The analysis assumed a 12-week course of treatment, based upon 
RCTs' treatment duration. One-way deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses were conducted to assess the robustness of the results.
RESULTS: Patients on LDX therapy gained 0.006 quality-adjusted life years (QALY) 
compared to patients on the NPT arm, while the average total cost was US$175 
higher for LDX therapy. The estimated ICER for LDX compared with NPT was 
US$27,618 per QALY, which was shown to be cost effective given a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of US$50,000.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment of BED with LDX showed increase in QALYs at an acceptable 
cost and is considered to be cost effective at the commonly used 
willingness-to-pay threshold in the USA. Based on the available evidence, the 
current model focused on short-term benefits only. There is a need to generate 
additional scientific evidence supporting long-term benefits of LDX therapy for 
BED.

DOI: 10.1007/s40261-016-0381-3
PMCID: PMC4801997
PMID: 26914658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. World Neurosurg. 2016 Jun;90:154-163. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2016.02.060. Epub
2016  Feb 23.

Fluorescent-Guided Surgical Resection of Glioma with Targeted Molecular Imaging 
Agents: A Literature Review.

Craig SEL(1), Wright J(2), Sloan AE(3), Brady-Kalnay SM(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Microbiology, School of Medicine, Case 
Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Case Western Reserve University School of 
Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(3)Case Comprehensive Cancer Center, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA; Department of Neurosurgery, Case Western 
Reserve University School of Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio, USA; Brain Tumor and 
Neuro-Oncology Center, University Hospitals Case Medical Center, Cleveland, 
Ohio, USA.
(4)Department of Molecular Biology and Microbiology, School of Medicine, Case 
Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA; Case Comprehensive Cancer 
Center, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, 
USA; Department of Neurosciences, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA. Electronic address: 
susann.brady-kalnay@case.edu.

The median life expectancy after a diagnosis of glioblastoma is 15 months. 
Although chemotherapeutics may someday cure glioblastoma by killing the highly 
dispersive malignant cells, the most important contribution that clinicians can 
currently offer to improve survival is by maximizing the extent of resection and 
providing concurrent chemo-radiation, which has become standard. Strides have 
been made in this area with the advent and implementation of methods of improved 
intraoperative tumor visualization. One of these techniques, optical fluorescent 
imaging with targeted molecular imaging agents, allows the surgeon to view 
fluorescently labeled tumor tissue during surgery with the use of special 
microscopy, thereby highlighting where to resect and indicating when tumor-free 
margins have been obtained. This advantage is especially important at the 
difficult-to-observe margins where tumor cells infiltrate normal tissue. 
Targeted fluorescent agents also may be valuable for identifying tumor versus 
nontumor tissue. In this review, we briefly summarize nontargeted fluorescent 
tumor imaging agents before discussing several novel targeted fluorescent agents 
being developed for glioma imaging in the context of fluorescent-guided surgery 
or live molecular navigation. Many of these agents are currently undergoing 
preclinical testing. As the agents become available, however, it is necessary to 
understand the strengths and weaknesses of each.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2016.02.060
PMCID: PMC4915969
PMID: 26915698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Transplant Proc. 2016 Jan-Feb;48(1):50-4. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2015.10.058.

Quality of Life After Kidney Transplantation: A Prospective Study.

Kostro JZ(1), Hellmann A(2), Kobiela J(2), Skóra I(3), Lichodziejewska-Niemierko 
M(4), Dębska-Ślizień A(5), Śledziński Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of General, Endocrine, and Transplant Surgery, Medical University 
of Gdańsk, Poland. Electronic address: kostro@gumed.edu.pl.
(2)Department of General, Endocrine, and Transplant Surgery, Medical University 
of Gdańsk, Poland.
(3)Regional Transplant Coordination Centre, UCK Gdańsk, Poland.
(4)Department of Palliative Medicine, Medical University of Gdańsk, Poland.
(5)Department of Nephrology, Transplantology, and Internal Medicine, Medical 
University of Gdańsk, Poland.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of renal transplantation is to achieve a maximal 
improvement in quality of life (QoL) and life expectancy in patients with 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD) while minimizing the potential side effects of 
this procedure. It is important to achieve an optimal balance between graft 
function and the patient's QoL. This study was designed to assess the changes in 
the QoL after kidney transplantation (KTx) in patients with ESRD previously 
treated with hemodialysis (HD) or peritoneal dialysis (PD).
METHODS: QoL was prospectively analyzed in 69 patients after kidney 
transplantation in a single-center study. Patients with ESRD were divided into 2 
groups: those previously treated with HD (n = 44 patients; group 1) or PD (n = 
25 patients; group 2). Both groups were asked to complete the KDQOL-SFtm 
questionnaire before and 12 months after kidney transplantation.
RESULTS: We observed significant differences in many parameters of QoL in both 
groups after KTx but more positive changes of most parameters in question 
exhibited by patients previously treated by means of HD than PD. Patients 
treated with HD and PD demonstrated improvement after KTx in 74% of dimensions. 
There were no statistical differences in the QoL between group 1 and group 2 
before or after KTx.
CONCLUSIONS: The study demonstrated post- to pre-transplant improvements of QoL 
independently of previous treatment.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2015.10.058
PMID: 26915842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Popul Stud (Camb). 2016;70(1):59-71. doi: 10.1080/00324728.2016.1145727.
Epub  2016 Feb 26.

The contribution of a history of heavy smoking to Scotland's mortality 
disadvantage.

Kelly LA(1), Preston SH(1).

Author information:
(1)a University of Pennsylvania.

Scotland has a lower life expectancy than any country in Western Europe or North 
America, and this disadvantage is concentrated above age 50. According to the 
Human Mortality Database, life expectancy at age 50 has been lower in Scotland 
than in any other developed country since 1980. Relative to 15 developed 
countries that we have chosen for comparison, Scotland's life expectancy in 2009 
at age 50 was lower by an average of 2.5 years for women and 1.6 years for men. 
We estimate that Scottish women lost 3.6 years of life expectancy at age 50 as a 
result of smoking, compared to 1.4 years for the comparison countries. The 
equivalent figures among men are 3.1 and 2.1 years. These differences are large 
enough for the history of heavy smoking in Scotland to account both for most of 
the shortfall in life expectancy for both sexes and for the country's unusually 
narrow sex differences in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.2016.1145727
PMCID: PMC4798891
PMID: 26915969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. New Phytol. 2016 Jul;211(2):516-26. doi: 10.1111/nph.13903. Epub 2016 Feb
24.

Nitric oxide and S-nitrosoglutathione function additively during plant immunity.

Yun BW(1)(2), Skelly MJ(1), Yin M(1), Yu M(1), Mun BG(2), Lee SU(2), Hussain 
A(1)(2)(3), Spoel SH(1), Loake GJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Plant Sciences, School of Biological Sciences, 
University of Edinburgh, King's Buildings, Edinburgh, EH9 3BF, UK.
(2)School of Applied Biosciences, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, 
KyungPook National University, 80 Daehak-ro, Buk-gu, Daegu, 7201-701, Korea.
(3)Department of Agriculture, Abdul Wali Khan University, Mardan, Khyber 
Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.

Nitric oxide (NO) is emerging as a key regulator of diverse plant cellular 
processes. A major route for the transfer of NO bioactivity is S-nitrosylation, 
the addition of an NO moiety to a protein cysteine thiol forming an 
S-nitrosothiol (SNO). Total cellular levels of protein S-nitrosylation are 
controlled predominantly by S-nitrosoglutathione reductase 1 (GSNOR1) which 
turns over the natural NO donor, S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO). In the absence of 
GSNOR1 function, GSNO accumulates, leading to dysregulation of total cellular 
S-nitrosylation. Here we show that endogenous NO accumulation in Arabidopsis, 
resulting from loss-of-function mutations in NO Overexpression 1 (NOX1), led to 
disabled Resistance (R) gene-mediated protection, basal resistance and defence 
against nonadapted pathogens. In nox1 plants both salicylic acid (SA) synthesis 
and signalling were suppressed, reducing SA-dependent defence gene expression. 
Significantly, expression of a GSNOR1 transgene complemented the SNO-dependent 
phenotypes of paraquat resistant 2-1 (par2-1) plants but not the NO-related 
characters of the nox1-1 line. Furthermore, atgsnor1-3 nox1-1 double mutants 
supported greater bacterial titres than either of the corresponding single 
mutants. Our findings imply that GSNO and NO, two pivotal redox signalling 
molecules, exhibit additive functions and, by extension, may have distinct or 
overlapping molecular targets during both immunity and development.

© 2016 The Authors. New Phytologist © 2016 New Phytologist Trust.

DOI: 10.1111/nph.13903
PMID: 26916092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2016 Jan;1363:68-79. doi: 10.1111/nyas.13014. Epub 2016
Feb  24.

Methionine restriction beyond life-span extension.

Ables GP(1), Hens JR(1), Nichenametla SN(1).

Author information:
(1)Orentreich Foundation for the Advancement of Science, Cold Spring, New York.

Dietary methionine restriction (MR) extends life span across species via various 
intracellular regulatory mechanisms. In rodents, MR induces resistance against 
adiposity, improves hepatic glucose metabolism, preserves cardiac function, and 
reduces body size, all of which can affect the onset of age-related diseases. 
Recent studies have shown that MR-affected biomarkers, such as fibroblast growth 
factor 21, adiponectin, leptin, cystathionine β synthase, and insulin-like 
growth factor 1, can potentially alter physiology. The beneficial effects of MR 
could be explained in part by its ability to reduce mitochondrial oxidative 
stress. Studies have revealed that MR can reduce reactive oxygen species that 
damage cells and promote cancer progression. It has been demonstrated that 
either MR or the targeting of specific genes in the methionine cycle could 
induce cell apoptosis while decreasing proliferation in several cancer models. 
The complete mechanism underlying the actions of MR on the cell cycle during 
cancer has not been fully elucidated. Epigenetic mechanisms, such as methylation 
and noncoding RNAs, are also possible downstream effectors of MR; future studies 
should help to elucidate some of these mechanisms. Despite evidence that changes 
in dietary methionine can affect epigenetics, it remains unknown whether 
epigenetics is a mechanism in MR. This review summarizes research on MR and its 
involvement in metabolism, cancer, and epigenetics.

© 2016 New York Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/nyas.13014
PMID: 26916321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. J Vasc Surg. 2016 Mar;63(3):827-38.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2015.10.055.

Cost-effectiveness of open versus endovascular repair of abdominal aortic 
aneurysm.

van Bochove CA(1), Burgers LT(2), Vahl AC(3), Birnie E(1), van Schothorst MG(1), 
Redekop WK(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(2)Institute of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands; Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: ltburgers@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Vascular Surgery, Onze Lieve Vrouwe Gasthuis, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Institute of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands; Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Patients with a large unruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm with a 
diameter >5.0 cm are treated with open surgical repair (OSR) or endovascular 
aneurysm repair (EVAR). Because many studies have assessed the 
cost-effectiveness of these treatments with conflicting results, this systematic 
review examined published cost-effectiveness analyses of elective EVAR vs OSR in 
patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm.
METHODS: A systematic search strategy using three databases was conducted to 
find all relevant studies. Characteristics extracted from these studies included 
study characteristics (eg, age of the population), input parameters (eg, costs 
of the EVAR procedure), general results, and sensitivity analyses. The quality 
of each study was assessed using the Drummond checklist.
RESULTS: The search identified 1141 potentially relevant studies, of which 13 
studies met inclusion criteria. Most studies found that EVAR was more expensive 
and more effective than OSR. However, most studies concluded that the health 
gained from EVAR did not offset the higher total costs, leading to an 
unacceptably high incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. EVAR was considered more 
cost-effective in patient groups with a high surgical risk. The quality of most 
studies was judged as reasonably good.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, published cost-effectiveness analyses of EVAR do not 
provide a clear answer about whether elective EVAR is a cost-effective solution 
because the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio varies considerably among the 
studies. This answer can best be provided through a cost-effectiveness analysis 
of EVAR that incorporates more recent technologic advances and the improved 
experience that clinicians have with EVAR.

Copyright © 2016 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2015.10.055
PMID: 26916588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Life Sci. 2016 Apr 1;150:81-8. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2016.02.075. Epub 2016 Feb
23.

SB 334867, a selective orexin receptor type 1 antagonist, elevates seizure 
threshold in mice.

Socała K(1), Szuster-Ciesielska A(2), Wlaź P(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Physiology, Institute of Biology and Biochemistry, Maria 
Curie-Skłodowska University, Lublin, Poland. Electronic address: ksocala@op.pl.
(2)Department of Virology and Immunology, Institute of Microbiology and 
Biotechnology, Maria Curie-Skłodowska University, Lublin, Poland.
(3)Department of Animal Physiology, Institute of Biology and Biochemistry, Maria 
Curie-Skłodowska University, Lublin, Poland.

AIM: Orexins A and B are hypothalamic neuropeptides involved in a number of 
physiological and behavioral processes. They work via OX1 and OX2 receptors. 
Recent studies revealed that orexins may be implicated in seizure activity. 
Therefore, the present study was undertaken to evaluate the influence of SB 
334867 (a selective OX1 receptor antagonist) and EMPA (a selective OX2 receptor 
antagonist) on the seizure thresholds in mice. We also aimed to determine the 
changes of orexin A level following different types of seizures.
MAIN METHODS: The intravenous pentylenetetrazole (i.v. PTZ) seizure test, the 
maximal electroshock seizure threshold (MEST) test and the 6 Hz seizure test 
were used in the present study. Brain orexin A level was determined via 
enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA).
KEY FINDINGS: SB 334867 did not affect the seizure threshold for myoclonic 
twitches and tonic seizures in the i.v. PTZ seizure test. This compound, 
however, significantly raised the threshold for the PTZ-induced clonic seizures, 
for tonic hindlimb extension in the MEST test as well as for psychomotor 
seizures induced by 6 Hz stimulation. In comparison, EMPA did not alter the 
seizure thresholds in the i.v. PTZ test. Both EMPA and SB 334867 did not affect 
motor coordination and muscular strength. ELISA showed the increase of total 
brain orexin A level following different types of seizures.
SIGNIFICANCE: Our results provide further evidence for the role of orexins in 
seizure activity and suggest that pharmacological blockade of the OX1 receptors 
may represent a novel therapeutic approach in the treatment of seizure 
disorders.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2016.02.075
PMID: 26916826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Feb;37(2):238-42. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2016.02.018.

[A cost-effectiveness analysis on universal infant rotavirus vaccination 
strategy in China].

[Article in Chinese]

Sun SL(1), Gao YQ, Yin J, Zhuang GH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Xi'an 
Jiaotong University Health Science Center, Xi'an 710061, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of current universal infant 
rotavirus vaccination strategy, in China.
METHODS: Through constructing decision tree-Markov model, we simulated rotavirus 
diarrhea associated cost and health outcome on those newborns in 2012 regarding 
different vaccination programs as: group with no vaccination, Rotavirus 
vaccination group and Rotateq vaccination group, respectively. We determined the 
optimal program, based on the comparison between incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) and China' s 2012 per capital gross domestic product (GDP).
RESULTS: Compared with non-vaccination group, the Rotavirus vaccination and 
Rotateq vaccination groups had to pay 3 760 Yuan and 7 578 Yuan (both less than 
2012 GDP per capital) to avert one disability adjusted life years (DALY) loss, 
respectively. RESULTS from sensitivity analysis indicated that both results were 
robust. Compared with Rotavirus vaccination program, the Rotateq vaccination 
program had to pay extra 81 068 Yuan (between 1 and 3 times GDP per capital) to 
avert one DALY loss. Data from the sensitivity analysis indicated that the 
result was not robust.
CONCLUSION: From the perspective of health economics, both two-dose Rotarix 
vaccine and three-dose' s Rotateq vaccine programs were highly cost-effective, 
when compared to the non-vaccination program. It was appropriate to integrate 
rotavirus vaccine into the routine immunization program. Considering the large 
amount of extra cost that had to spend on Rotateq vaccination program, results 
from the sensitivity analysis showed that it was not robust. Rotateq vaccine 
required one more dose than the Rotarix vaccine, to be effective. However, it 
appeared more difficult to practice, suggesting that it was better to choose the 
Rotarix vaccine, at current stage.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2016.02.018
PMID: 26917523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. J Geriatr Psychiatry Neurol. 2016 Jul;29(4):195-204. doi: 
10.1177/0891988716632913. Epub 2016 Feb 25.

Comorbidity of Cognitive Impairment and Late-Life Depression Increase Mortality: 
Results From a Cohort of Community-Dwelling Elderly Individuals in Rural Greece.

Georgakis MK(1), Papadopoulos FC(2), Protogerou AD(3), Pagonari I(4), Sarigianni 
F(4), Biniaris-Georgallis SI(1), Kalogirou EΙ(1), Thomopoulos TP(1), Kapaki 
E(5), Papageorgiou C(6), Papageorgiou SG(7), Tousoulis D(8), Petridou ET(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hygiene, Epidemiology and Medical Statistics, Medical School, 
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Greece.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Psychiatry, Uppsala University, Uppsala 
University Hospital, Athens, Greece.
(3)Department of Pathophysiology, Medical School, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens, Greece.
(4)Health Centre of Velestino, Ahillopouleio General Hospital of Volos, Greece.
(5)First Department of Neurology, Eginition Hospital, Medical School, National 
and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Greece.
(6)First Department of Psychiatry, Eginition Hospital, Medical School, National 
and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Greece.
(7)Second Department of Neurology, Attikon University General Hospital, Medical 
School, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Greece.
(8)First Department of Cardiology, Hippokrateion Hospital, Medical School, 
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Greece.
(9)Department of Hygiene, Epidemiology and Medical Statistics, Medical School, 
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Greece epetrid@med.uoa.gr.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the association of cognitive impairment (COGI) and 
depression with all-cause mortality and cardiovascular-specific mortality among 
community-dwelling elderly individuals in rural Greece.
METHODS: Cognition and depressive symptomatology of 676 Velestino town residents 
aged ≥60 years were assessed using Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and 
Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS), respectively. Eight-year all-cause mortality 
and cardiovascular mortality were explored by multivariate Cox regression models 
controlling for major confounders.
RESULTS: Two hundred and one patients died during follow-up. Cognitive 
impairment (MMSE ≤ 23) was independently associated with all-cause mortality 
(hazard ratio [HR]: 1.57, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.13-2.18) and 
cardiovascular mortality (HR: 1.57, 95%CI: 1.03-2.41). Moderate to severe 
depression (GDS > 10) was significantly associated only with a 51% increase in 
all-cause mortality. A male-specific association was noted for moderate to 
severe depression, whereas the effect of COGI was limited to females. 
Noteworthy, COGI and depression comorbidity, rather than their sole presence, 
increased all-cause mortality and cardiovascular mortality by 66% and 72%, 
respectively. The mortality effect of COGI was augmented among patients with 
depression and of depression among patients with COGI.
CONCLUSION: COGI and depression, 2 entities often coexisting among elderly 
individuals, appear to increase all-cause mortality and cardiovascular 
mortality. Gender-specific modes may prevail but their comorbidity should be 
carefully assessed, as it seems to represent an independent index of increased 
frailty, which eventually shortens life expectancy.

© The Author(s) 2016.

DOI: 10.1177/0891988716632913
PMID: 26917554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Eur Respir J. 2016 May;47(5):1535-58. doi: 10.1183/13993003.00829-2015. Epub
 2016 Feb 25.

Connective tissue diseases, multimorbidity and the ageing lung.

Spagnolo P(1), Cordier JF(2), Cottin V(3).

Author information:
(1)Medical University Clinic, Canton Hospital Baselland, and University of 
Basel, Liestal, Switzerland.
(2)Hospices Civils de Lyon, Hôpital Louis Pradel, National Reference Center for 
Rare Pulmonary Diseases, Lyon, France Claude Bernard Lyon 1 University, 
University of Lyon, Lyon, France.
(3)Hospices Civils de Lyon, Hôpital Louis Pradel, National Reference Center for 
Rare Pulmonary Diseases, Lyon, France Claude Bernard Lyon 1 University, 
University of Lyon, Lyon, France INRA, UMR754, Lyon, France 
vincent.cottin@chu-lyon.fr.

Connective tissue diseases encompass a wide range of heterogeneous disorders 
characterised by immune-mediated chronic inflammation often leading to tissue 
damage, collagen deposition and possible loss of function of the target organ. 
Lung involvement is a common complication of connective tissue diseases. 
Depending on the underlying disease, various thoracic compartments can be 
involved but interstitial lung disease is a major contributor to morbidity and 
mortality. Interstitial lung disease, pulmonary hypertension or both are found 
most commonly in systemic sclerosis. In the elderly, the prevalence of 
connective tissue diseases continues to rise due to both longer life expectancy 
and more effective and better-tolerated treatments. In the geriatric population, 
connective tissue diseases are almost invariably accompanied by age-related 
comorbidities, and disease- and treatment-related complications, which 
contribute to the significant morbidity and mortality associated with these 
conditions, and complicate treatment decision-making. Connective tissue diseases 
in the elderly represent a growing concern for healthcare providers and an 
increasing burden of global health resources worldwide. A better understanding 
of the mechanisms involved in the regulation of the immune functions in the 
elderly and evidence-based guidelines specifically designed for this patient 
population are instrumental to improving the management of connective tissue 
diseases in elderly patients.

Copyright ©ERS 2016.

DOI: 10.1183/13993003.00829-2015
PMID: 26917611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. J Man Manip Ther. 2015 Sep;23(4):205-9. doi: 10.1179/2042618614Y.0000000100.

Can standing back extension exercise improve or prevent low back pain in 
Japanese care workers?

Matsudaira K, Hiroe M(1), Kikkawa M(1), Sawada T(2), Suzuki M(2), Isomura T, Oka 
H(3), Hiroe K(1), Hiroe K(1).

Author information:
(1)Kohoen Social Community Service Yonago, Tottori, Japan.
(2)Clinical Study Support Inc., Nagoya Life Science Incubator, Chikusa-ku, 
Aichi, Japan.
(3)Department of Joint Disease Research 22nd Century Medical and Research 
Center, Faculty of Medicine, The University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Japan.

BACKGROUND: We suggested a standing back extension exercise 'One Stretch' based 
on the McKenzie method, to examine the ability to improve or prevent low back 
pain (LBP) in Japanese care workers.
METHODS: We conducted a single-center, non-randomized, controlled study in 
Japan. Care workers in an intervention group received an exercise manual and a 
30-minute seminar on LBP and were encouraged with a group approach, while care 
workers in a control group were given only the manual. All care workers answered 
questionnaires at the baseline and end of a 1-year study period. The subjective 
improvement of LBP and compliance with the exercise were evaluated.
RESULTS: In all, 64 workers in the intervention group and 72 in the control 
group participated in this study. More care workers in the intervention group 
exercised regularly and improved or prevented LBP than in the control group 
(P = 0·003 and P<0·0001, respectively). In the intervention group, none had a 
first medical consultation or were absent from disability for LBP by the end of 
the study period.
CONCLUSION: The exercise 'One Stretch' would be effective to improve or prevent 
LBP in care workers. Our group approach would lead to better compliance with the 
exercise.

DOI: 10.1179/2042618614Y.0000000100
PMCID: PMC4727733
PMID: 26917938


473. Biomark Insights. 2016 Feb 18;10(Suppl 3):49-54. doi: 10.4137/BMI.S22431. 
eCollection 2015.

Management of Chronic Myeloid Leukemia Patients Resistant to Tyrosine Kinase 
Inhibitors Treatment.

Wieczorek A(1), Uharek L(1).

Author information:
(1)Charité, Division of Hematology, Oncology and Tumor Immunology, Berlin, 
Germany.

Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a myeloproliferative disorder associated with 
a characteristic chromosomal translocation called the Philadelphia chromosome. 
This oncogene is generated by the fusion of breakpoint cluster region (BCR) and 
Abelson leukemia virus (ABL) genes and encodes a novel fusion gene translating 
into a protein with constitutive tyrosine kinase activity. The discovery and 
introduction of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) irreversibly changed the 
landscape of CML treatment, leading to dramatic improvement in long-term 
survival rates. The majority of patients with CML in the chronic phase have a 
life expectancy comparable with that of healthy age-matched individuals. 
Although an enormous therapeutic improvement has been accomplished, there are 
still some unresolved issues in the treatment of patients with CML. One of the 
most important problems is based on the fact that TKIs can efficiently target 
proliferating mature cells but do not eradicate leukemic stem cells, allowing 
persistence of the malignant clone. Owing to the resistance mechanisms arising 
during the course of the disease, treatment with most of the approved BCR-ABL1 
TKIs may become ineffective in a proportion of patients. This article highlights 
the different molecular mechanisms of acquired resistance being developed during 
treatment with TKIs as well as the pharmacological strategies to overcome it. 
Moreover, it gives an overview of novel drugs and therapies that are aiming in 
overcoming drug resistance, loss of response, and kinase domain mutations.

DOI: 10.4137/BMI.S22431
PMCID: PMC4760672
PMID: 26917943


474. J Neurosurg. 2016 Nov;125(5):1155-1166. doi: 10.3171/2015.10.JNS15583. Epub
2016  Feb 26.

Extension of diffuse low-grade gliomas beyond radiological borders as shown by 
the coregistration of histopathological and magnetic resonance imaging data.

Zetterling M(1)(2), Roodakker KR(3), Berntsson SG(3)(4), Edqvist PH(5), Latini 
F(1), Landtblom AM(3)(4)(6), Pontén F(5), Alafuzoff I(7)(8), Larsson EM(9)(10), 
Smits A(3)(4)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Neurosurgery, Uppsala University.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Uppsala University Hospital.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Neurology, Uppsala University.
(4)Department of Neurology, Uppsala University Hospital.
(5)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology and Science for Life 
Laboratory, Uppsala University.
(6)Center for Medical Image Science and Visualization, Linköpings University, 
Linköping, Sweden; and.
(7)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University.
(8)Department of Pathology and Cytology, Uppsala University Hospital.
(9)Department of Surgical Sciences, Radiology, Uppsala University.
(10)Department of Radiology, Uppsala University Hospital, Uppsala.
(11)Danish Epilepsy Center, Dianalund, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE Magnetic resonance imaging tends to underestimate the extent of 
diffuse low-grade gliomas (DLGGs). With the aim of studying the presence of 
tumor cells outside the radiological border, the authors developed a method of 
correlating MRI findings with histological data in patients with suspected DLGGs 
in whom en bloc resections were performed. METHODS Five patients with suspected 
DLGG suitable for en bloc resection were recruited from an ongoing prospective 
study. Sections of the entire tumor were immunostained with antibodies against 
mutated IDH1 protein (IDH1-R132H). Magnetic resonance images were coregistered 
with corresponding IDH1 images. The growth pattern of tumor cells in white and 
gray matter was assessed in comparison with signal changes on corresponding MRI 
slices. RESULTS Neuropathological assessment revealed DLGG in 4 patients and 
progression to WHO Grade III glioma in 1 patient. The tumor core consisted of a 
high density of IDH1-R132H-positive tumor cells and was located in both gray and 
white matter. Tumor cells infiltrated along the peripheral fibers of the white 
matter tracts. In all cases, tumor cells were found outside the radiological 
tumor border delineated on T2-FLAIR MRI sequences. CONCLUSIONS The authors 
present a new method for the coregistration of histological and radiological 
characteristics of en bloc-removed infiltrative brain tumors that discloses 
tumor invasion at the radiological tumor borders. This technique can be applied 
to evaluate the sensitivity of alternative imaging methods to detect scattered 
tumor cells at tumor borders. Accurate methods for detection of infiltrative 
tumor cells will improve the possibility of performing radical tumor resection. 
In future studies, the method could also be used for in vivo studies of tumor 
invasion.

DOI: 10.3171/2015.10.JNS15583
PMID: 26918468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2016 Mar;25(2):231-41. doi: 10.1111/ecc.12478.

Gender determinants of smoking practice in Indigenous communities: an 
exploratory study.

Knott VE(1)(2), Gilligan G(2)(3), Maksimovic L(4), Shen D(5), Murphy M(6).

Author information:
(1)Counselling, Australian Institute of Professional Counsellors, Fortitude 
Valley, Qld, Australia.
(2)Menzies School of Health Research, Spring Hill, Qld, Australia.
(3)Charles Darwin University, Casuarina NT, Australia.
(4)Cancer Council SA, Eastwood, SA, Australia.
(5)Drug and Alcohol Services SA, Eastwood, SA, Australia.
(6)Michael Murphy Research, Melbourne, Vic., Australia.

Despite the need to urgently reduce smoking rates among Indigenous Australians, 
in order to close-the-gap in life expectancy, little is known regarding how this 
can be achieved. This study aimed to explore whether a focus on gender specific 
determinants of smoking among Indigenous Australians could be identified, thus 
providing a potentially novel approach to underpin future efforts at 
intervention. A qualitative research design was employed. Eighty-two 
participants, comprised of 43 Indigenous women (mean age 32.15, SD, 12.47) and 
39 Indigenous men (mean age 34.91, SD, 11.26), participated in one of 12 focus 
groups held in metropolitan, regional and rural locations in South Australia. 
Facilitators prompted discussion in response to the question: 'What is it like 
being a smoker these days?' Two experienced coders assessed data for themes 
using Attride-Stirling's (2002) method of analysis. Two global themes emerged 
for men and women. The first theme, 'It's Harder to Smoke Nowadays', encompassed 
sub-themes capturing changed smoking practices in response to tobacco control 
strategies implemented in Australia. Sub-themes of 'smoking in secrecy' coupled 
with an 'awareness of the effects of passive smoking' were identified among 
women. Among men, sub-themes that depicted tension between 'a desire to be a 
role model' and 'guilt about smoking' emerged. The second theme, 'Push and Pull 
Factors', identified a range of gender specific determinants of smoking. While 
similar reasons for smoking ('pull factors') were identified in men and women 
(e.g. addiction, boredom, stress, pleasure, mood stabiliser), different 'push 
factors' (reasons for not wanting to smoke) emerged. For men, sport, fitness and 
children were identified as reasons for not wanting to smoke, whereas women 
identified factors such as respect for non-smokers, and body image concerns. The 
current findings suggest that there may be fundamental differences in the 
determinants of smoking (pull factors) as well as reasons for wanting to quit 
(push factors) between Indigenous men and women. A focus on interventions that 
target gender specific determinants, or motivators of smoking, offers a novel, 
and potentially efficacious approach to reduce smoking rates among Indigenous 
Australians.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ecc.12478
PMID: 26918688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. PLoS Genet. 2016 Feb 26;12(2):e1005866. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1005866. 
eCollection 2016 Feb.

Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE) Inhibitor Extends Caenorhabditis elegans 
Life Span.

Kumar S(1), Dietrich N(1), Kornfeld K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Biology, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, United States of America.

Animal aging is characterized by progressive, degenerative changes in many organ 
systems. Because age-related degeneration is a major contributor to disability 
and death in humans, treatments that delay age-related degeneration are 
desirable. However, no drugs that delay normal human aging are currently 
available. To identify drugs that delay age-related degeneration, we used the 
powerful Caenorhabditis elegans model system to screen for FDA-approved drugs 
that can extend the adult lifespan of worms. Here we show that captopril 
extended mean lifespan. Captopril is an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) 
inhibitor used to treat high blood pressure in humans. To explore the mechanism 
of captopril, we analyzed the acn-1 gene that encodes the C. elegans homolog of 
ACE. Reducing the activity of acn-1 extended the mean life span. Furthermore, 
reducing the activity of acn-1 delayed age-related degenerative changes and 
increased stress resistance, indicating that acn-1 influences aging. Captopril 
could not further extend the lifespan of animals with reduced acn-1, suggesting 
they function in the same pathway; we propose that captopril inhibits acn-1 to 
extend lifespan. To define the relationship with previously characterized 
longevity pathways, we analyzed mutant animals. The lifespan extension caused by 
reducing the activity of acn-1 was additive with caloric restriction and 
mitochondrial insufficiency, and did not require sir-2.1, hsf-1 or rict-1, 
suggesting that acn-1 functions by a distinct mechanism. The interactions with 
the insulin/IGF-1 pathway were complex, since the lifespan extensions caused by 
captopril and reducing acn-1 activity were additive with daf-2 and age-1 but 
required daf-16. Captopril treatment and reducing acn-1 activity caused similar 
