(2)University of Sheffield School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), 
Sheffield, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (JS, SR, NL).
(3)University of York, Heslington, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland (LB, AM).
(4)University of Leeds, Leeds, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland (LS).

This article describes methods used to estimate parameters governing long-term 
survival, or times to other events, for health economic models. Specifically, 
the focus is on methods that combine shorter-term individual-level survival data 
from randomized trials with longer-term external data, thus using the 
longer-term data to aid extrapolation of the short-term data. This requires 
assumptions about how trends in survival for each treatment arm will continue 
after the follow-up period of the trial. Furthermore, using external data 
requires assumptions about how survival differs between the populations 
represented by the trial and external data. Study reports from a national health 
technology assessment program in the United Kingdom were searched, and the 
findings were combined with "pearl-growing" searches of the academic literature. 
We categorized the methods that have been used according to the assumptions they 
made about how the hazards of death vary between the external and internal data 
and through time, and we discuss the appropriateness of the assumptions in 
different circumstances. Modeling choices, parameter estimation, and 
characterization of uncertainty are discussed, and some suggestions for future 
research priorities in this area are given.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X16639900
PMCID: PMC5424081
PMID: 27005519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Mar;37(3):375-80. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2016.03.017.

[Influence of daily ambient temperature on mortality and years of life lost in 
Chongqing].

[Article in Chinese]

Li J(1), Luo S(2), Ding X(2), Yang J(1), Li J(3), Liu X(1), Gao J(1), Xu L(1), 
Tang W(2), Liu Q(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Communicable Disease Control and Prevention, State Key 
Laboratory for Communicable Disease Prevention and Control, Chinese Center for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 102206, China.
(2)Chongqing Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Chongqing 400042, China.
(3)National Institute for Communicable Disease Control and Prevention, State Key 
Laboratory for Communicable Disease Prevention and Control, Chinese Center for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 102206, China; Department of 
Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Shandong University, Jinan 250012, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the influence of extreme ambient temperature on mortality 
and years of life lost (YLL) in Chongqing.
METHODS: The daily mortality, meteorology and air pollution index data in 
Chongqing from the 1(st) January 2010 to the 31(st) December 2013 were 
collected. Distributed lag non-linear model (DLNM) was used to assess the 
influence of daily ambient temperature on daily number of deaths and daily YLL 
respectively. The delayed and cumulative effects of extreme temperature on sex, 
age, and cause-specific mortality were also assessed.
RESULTS: The relationships between ambient temperature and non-accidental, 
cardiovascular disease and respiratory disease mortalities and YLL were U-shaped 
or W-shaped. The effect of heat was obvious on that day, peaked on day 7, and 
lasted for two weeks, whereas the effect of cold was obvious a week later and 
lasted for a month. As 1 ℃ increase of ambient temperature, the cumulative 
relative risks (CRR) of high temperature across lag 0-7 days on non-accidental, 
respiratory disease and cardiovascular disease mortalities were 1.05 (95%CI: 
1.03-1.07), 1.08 (95%CI: 1.05-1.11) and 1.05 (95%CI: 1.01-1.09) respectively. 
The effects of heat on YLL for each cause were 23.81 (95%CI: 12.31-35.31), 14.34 
(95%CI: 8.98-19.70) and 4.43 (95%CI: 1.64-7.21), respectively. On cold days, 1 ℃ 
decrease of ambient temperature was correlated with an increase in CRR of 1.06 
(95%CI: 1.04-1.08), 1.09 (95%CI:1.06-1.12) and 1.06 (95%CI: 1.02-1.11) from lag 
0 to 14 for non-accidental, respiratory disease and cardiovascular disease 
mortalities, respectively. The estimated YLL were 23.34 (95%CI: 10.04-36.64), 
16.39 (95%CI: 10.19-22.59) and 2.61 (95%CI: -0.61-5.82). People aged ≥65 years 
tend to have higher CRR and YLL than those aged <65 years. On high temperature 
days, the CRR in women was higher than that in men, while the YLL in women was 
lower than that in men. On low temperature days, both the CRR and YLL in women 
were higher than those in men.
CONCLUSIONS: Both high and low ambient temperature have adverse health effects. 
People aged ≥65 years are more sensitive to both high and low ambient 
temperature. Younger men are more sensitive to high ambient temperature and 
women and elder men are sensitive to low ambient temperature. It is necessary to 
take targeted measures to protect the population in Chongqing from the adverse 
influence of extreme ambient temperature.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2016.03.017
PMID: 27005540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. N Z Med J. 2016 Mar 11;129(1431):85-92.

Decision-making in an era of cancer prevention via aspirin: New Zealand needs 
updated guidelines and risk calculators.

Wilson N(1), Selak V, Blakely T, Leung W, Clarke P, Jackson R, Knight J, Nghiem 
N.

Author information:
(1)Public Health, University of Otago, Wellington. Nick.Wilson@otago.ac.nz.

Based on new systematic reviews of the evidence, the US Preventive Services Task 
Force has drafted updated guidelines on the use of low-dose aspirin for the 
primary prevention of both cardiovascular disease (CVD) and cancer. The Task 
Force generally recommends consideration of aspirin in adults aged 50-69 years 
with 10-year CVD risk of at least 10%, in who absolute health gain (reduction of 
CVD and cancer) is estimated to exceed absolute health loss (increase in 
bleeds). With the ongoing decline in CVD, current risk calculators for New 
Zealand are probably outdated, so it is difficult to be precise about what 
proportion of the population is in this risk category (roughly equivalent to 
5-year CVD risk ≥5%). Nevertheless, we suspect that most smokers aged 50-69 
years, and some non-smokers, would probably meet the new threshold for taking 
low-dose aspirin. The country therefore needs updated guidelines and risk 
calculators that are ideally informed by estimates of absolute net health gain 
(in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) per person) and cost-effectiveness. 
Other improvements to risk calculators include: epidemiological rigour (eg, by 
addressing competing mortality); providing enhanced graphical display of risk to 
enhance risk communication; and possibly capturing the issues of medication 
disutility and comparison with lifestyle changes.

PMID: 27005878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Drug Alcohol Depend. 2016 May 1;162:154-61. doi: 
10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2016.03.004. Epub 2016 Mar 10.

Cost-effectiveness of multidimensional family therapy compared to cognitive 
behavioral therapy for adolescents with a cannabis use disorder: Data from a 
randomized controlled trial.

Goorden M(1), van der Schee E(2), Hendriks VM(3), Hakkaart-van Roijen L(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment & Institute of Health Policy & 
Management, P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: Goorden@bmg.eur.nl.
(2)Parnassia Addiction Research Centre (PARC), Brijder Addiction Treatment, 
Parnassia Group, P.O. Box 53002, 2505 AA The Hague, The Netherlands.
(3)Parnassia Addiction Research Centre (PARC), Brijder Addiction Treatment, 
Parnassia Group, P.O. Box 53002, 2505 AA The Hague, The Netherlands; Curium, 
Leiden University Medical Center, Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 
Leiden University, P.O. Box 37, 2300 AA Leiden, The Netherlands.
(4)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment & Institute of Health Policy & 
Management, P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of Multidimensional Family Therapy 
(MDFT) for adolescents with a cannabis use disorder, compared to Cognitive 
Behavioural Therapy (CBT).
METHODS: A parallel-group randomized controlled trial was performed. 109 
adolescents with a DSM-IV cannabis use disorder (CBT n=54; MDFT n=55) were 
included. Assessments were conducted at baseline, and 3, 6, 9 and 12 months 
post-baseline, and included measures on cannabis and other substance use, 
delinquency, health care utilization, and general health related quality of 
life.
RESULTS: Excluding those with missing cost-data, 96 participants (MDFT n=49; CBT 
n=47) were included. From a health care perspective, the average annual direct 
medical costs in the CBT group were €2015 (95%C.I. 1397-2714), compared to €5446 
(95%C.I. 4159-7092) in the MDFT group. The average quality-adjusted life years 
(QALY's) gained were 0.06 QALY higher for the MDFT group, which led to an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 54,308 Euro/QALY or €43,405 per 
recovered patient. Taking the costs of delinquency into account, the costs 
increased to €21,330 (95%C.I. 12,389-32,894) for the CBT group and to €21,915 
(95%C.I. 16,273-28,181) for the MDFT group, which lead to an ICER of 9266 
Euro/QALY or a cost per recovered patient of €7491.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first comprehensive CEA of MDFT compared to CBT and it 
demonstrated that when costs of delinquency were included, the ICERS were 
modest. The results underline the importance of adopting a broader perspective 
regarding cost effectiveness analyses in mental health care.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2016.03.004
PMID: 27006273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. J Med Eng. 2014;2014:248316. doi: 10.1155/2014/248316. Epub 2014 Feb 19.

Assessment of Visual Reliance in Balance Control: An Inexpensive Extension of 
the Static Posturography.

Púčik J(1), Šaling M(2), Lukáč T(1), Ondráček O(1), Kucharík M(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Electronics and Photonics, Slovak University of Technology in 
Bratislava, Ilkovičova 3, 81219 Bratislava, Slovakia.
(2)II Neurologic Department, Medical Faculty of Commenius Univesity, Derer 
University Hospital, Limbová 5, 83305 Bratislava, Slovakia; Institute of Normal 
and Pathological Physiology, Slovak Academy of Sciences, Sienkiewiczova 1, 813 
71 Bratislava, Slovakia.

Ability of humans to maintain balance in an upright stance and during movement 
activities is one of the most natural skills affecting everyday life. This 
ability progressively deteriorates with increasing age, and balance impairment, 
often aggravated by age-related diseases, can result in falls that adversely 
impact the quality of life. Falls represent serious problems of health concern 
associated with aging. Many investigators, involved in different science 
disciplines such as medicine, engineering, psychology, and sport, have been 
attracted by a research of the human upright stance. In a clinical practice, 
stabilometry based on the force plate is the most widely available procedure 
used to evaluate the balance. In this paper, we have proposed a low-cost 
extension of the conventional stabilometry by the multimedia technology that 
allows identifying potentially disturbing effects of visual sensory information. 
Due to the proposed extension, a stabilometric assessment in terms of line 
integral of center of pressure (COP) during moving scene stimuli shows higher 
discrimination power between young healthy and elderly subjects with supposed 
stronger visual reliance.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/248316
PMCID: PMC4782629
PMID: 27006930


763. J Immigr Minor Health. 2017 Jun;19(3):716-722. doi:
10.1007/s10903-016-0396-0.

Social Capital and the Paradox of Poor but Healthy Groups in the United States.

Singer E(1), McElroy R(2), Muennig P(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai St. 
Luke's/Mount Sinai West Hospitals, 1111 Amsterdam Avenue, New York, NY, 10025, 
USA. Elizabeth.singer@mssm.edu.
(2)Department of Emergency Medicine, Mt. Sinai Hospital, 600 University Ave, 
Toronto, ON, M5G 1X5, Canada.
(3)Department of Health Policy and Management, Mailman School of Public Health, 
Columbia University, 722 West 168th St., New York, NY, 10032, USA.

Increased income strongly correlates with improved health and lower mortality 
risk. Yet in spite of having a lower mean and median income, both Hispanics and 
the foreign-born living within the U.S. have higher longevity compared with 
native-born, non-Hispanics. We explored the role of structural social capital in 
conferring protection against poor health outcomes among Hispanics and the 
foreign-born in the US. We used the National Health and Nutrition Examination 
Survey III 1988-1994 linked to prospective mortality follow up to examine the 
relationship between five measures of structural social capital and: (1) 
intermediate health outcomes (blood pressure, plasma fibrinogen, C-reactive 
protein, and total cholesterol) and (2) a distal outcome (all cause mortality). 
The foreign-born and Hispanics generally had lower measures of structural social 
capital relative to native-born non-Hispanics. Additionally, while structural 
social capital was protective against poor health or mortality among native-born 
persons, the association disappeared for Hispanics and the foreign-born.

DOI: 10.1007/s10903-016-0396-0
PMID: 27007124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Pharmacotherapy. 2016 May;36(5):472-81. doi: 10.1002/phar.1742. Epub 2016
May 2.

Cost-Utility Analysis of Infliximab with Standard Care versus Standard Care 
Alone for Induction and Maintenance Treatment of Patients with Ulcerative 
Colitis in Poland.

Stawowczyk E(1), Kawalec P(2), Pilc A(3).

Author information:
(1)Statsoft Polska Sp. z o.o., Krakow, Poland.
(2)Drug Management Department, Institute of Public Health, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, Jagiellonian University Medical College, Krakow, Poland.
(3)Department of Neurobiology, Institute of Pharmacology, Polish Academy of 
Sciences, Krakow, Poland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of infliximab with standard 
care (e.g., azathioprine, prednisolone, mesalazine, and 6-mercaptopurine) versus 
standard care alone for induction and maintenance treatment of patients with 
ulcerative colitis (UC) in Poland.
DESIGN: Cost-utility decision analytic model.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: A Markov model was used to estimate the expected 
costs and effects of infliximab/standard care and standard care alone. For each 
treatment option, costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were calculated 
to estimate the incremental cost-utility ratio. The target population consisted 
of a hypothetical cohort of adult patients with moderately to severely active UC 
who had an inadequate response to standard treatment, including corticosteroids 
and 6-mercaptopurine or azathioprine, or who were intolerant to or had medical 
contraindications to such therapies. The analysis was performed from the 
perspective of the Polish public payer over a 30-year time horizon. The clinical 
parameters were derived mainly from the Active Ulcerative Colitis Trial (ACT) 1 
and ACT 2 and from the Ulcerative Colitis Long-term Remission and Maintenance 
with Adalimumab (ULTRA) 2 clinical trial. Different costs and utility values 
were assigned to the various health states in the model; utility values were 
derived from a previously published study. Treatment of patients who received 
infliximab/standard care instead of standard care alone resulted in 0.174 
additional QALYs. Treatment with infliximab/standard care was found to be more 
expensive than treatment with standard care alone from the Polish National 
Health Fund perspective. The incremental cost-utility ratio of 
infliximab/standard care compared with standard care alone was estimated to be 
402,420 Polish zlotys (PLN)/QALY gained (95% confidence interval [CI] 
253,936-531,450 PLN/QALY gained), which is equivalent to $106,743 (U.S. 
dollars)/QALY gained (95% CI $67,357-140,968 [U.S. dollars]/QALY gained).
CONCLUSION: Treatment with infliximab/standard care instead of standard care 
alone resulted in additional QALYs but also additional costs. The incremental 
cost per QALY gained of infliximab/standard care compared with standard care 
alone exceeded the willingness-to-pay threshold in Poland (equivalent to 
~$33,400).

© 2016 Pharmacotherapy Publications, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/phar.1742
PMID: 27007213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2015;160:D217.

[The Starr-Edwards heart valve: one of the oldest mechanical heart valves still 
functioning today].

[Article in Dutch]

Schoenaker MH(1), van Wetten HB, Morshuis WJ.

Author information:
(1)Radboudumc, afd. Cardio-thoracale Chirurgie, Nijmegen.

In the 1960s, the Starr-Edwards valve was the first artificial heart valve to be 
successfully implanted in humans. This valve has now been in use for decades 
with outstanding results: patients whose life expectancy had previously been 
short acquired a good prognosis with this development. Nowadays the 
Starr-Edwards valve is not used anymore, but patients are being described today 
in whom these valves are still functioning well after more than 40 years.

PMID: 27007936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Matern Child Health J. 2016 Aug;20(8):1753-8. doi:
10.1007/s10995-016-1980-6.

Power, Politics, and Health: A New Public Health Practice Targeting the Root 
Causes of Health Equity.

Iton A(1)(2), Shrimali BP(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA. 
aiton@calondow.org.
(2)The California Endowment, Los Angeles, CA, USA. aiton@calondow.org.
(3)Alameda County Public Health Department, Oakland, CA, USA.

Purpose Understanding the WHY, WHAT, and HOW of place-based work in maternal and 
child health (MCH) is critical to examining the components of the environment 
that shape health opportunity through the relationship between life expectancy 
and neighborhood residence. Description On September 18, 2014, during the 
CityMatCH Leadership and MCH Epidemiology Conference, Dr. Anthony Iton provided 
the Keynote Address focused on the root causes of health inequities. Assessment 
The address focused on issues of equity in California and initiatives designed 
to mitigate and prevent disparities, including the Bay Area Regional Health 
Equities Initiative framework. Dr. Iton presented information on how the 
framework translated into investment strategies and a policy and systems change 
approach to place-based work. Conclusion The field of MCH, because of its focus 
on supporting health during critical periods of development, is poised to play a 
significant role in reducing health inequities. Recognizing that human health 
suffers when low income communities are passive, disenfranchised and 
disorganized, in order to change this status quo, understanding that human 
capital is the greatest asset is the urgent challenge to the field of MCH.

DOI: 10.1007/s10995-016-1980-6
PMID: 27008176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Cardiovasc Res. 2016 Jun 1;110(3):298-308. doi: 10.1093/cvr/cvw061. Epub
2016  Mar 22.

Matrix ageing and vascular impacts: focus on elastin fragmentation.

Duca L(1), Blaise S(1), Romier B(1), Laffargue M(2), Gayral S(2), El Btaouri 
H(1), Kawecki C(1), Guillot A(1), Martiny L(1), Debelle L(1), Maurice P(3).

Author information:
(1)Team 2: Matrix aging and Vascular remodelling, UMR CNRS 7369 Matrice 
Extracellulaire et Dynamique Cellulaire (MEDyC), Université de Reims Champagne 
Ardenne (URCA), UFR Sciences Exactes et Naturelles, Reims, France.
(2)INSERM UMR 1048, Institut des Maladies Métaboliques et Cardiovasculaires 
(I2MC), Toulouse, France.
(3)Team 2: Matrix aging and Vascular remodelling, UMR CNRS 7369 Matrice 
Extracellulaire et Dynamique Cellulaire (MEDyC), Université de Reims Champagne 
Ardenne (URCA), UFR Sciences Exactes et Naturelles, Reims, France 
pascal.maurice@univ-reims.fr.

Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the leading cause of death worldwide and 
represent a major problem of public health. Over the years, life expectancy has 
considerably increased throughout the world, and the prevalence of CVD is 
inevitably rising with the growing ageing of the population. The normal process 
of ageing is associated with progressive deterioration in structure and function 
of the vasculature, commonly called vascular ageing. At the vascular level, 
extracellular matrix (ECM) ageing leads to molecular alterations in long 
half-life proteins, such as elastin and collagen, and have critical effects on 
vascular diseases. This review highlights ECM alterations occurring during 
vascular ageing with a specific focus on elastin fragmentation and also the 
contribution of elastin-derived peptides (EDP) in age-related vascular 
complications. Moreover, current and new pharmacological strategies aiming at 
minimizing elastin degradation, EDP generation, and associated biological 
effects are discussed. These strategies may be of major relevance for preventing 
and/or delaying vascular ageing and its complications.

Published on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. 
© The Author 2016. For permissions please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cvr/cvw061
PMID: 27009176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Circ Cardiovasc Imaging. 2016 Apr;9(4):e004077. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCIMAGING.115.004077.

Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance Myocardial Feature Tracking: Concepts and 
Clinical Applications.

Schuster A(1), Hor KN(2), Kowallick JT(2), Beerbaum P(2), Kutty S(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Cardiology and Pneumology (A.S.) and Institute for 
Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology (J.T.K.), University Medical Centre 
Göttingen, Georg-August University, Göttingen, Germany; DZHK (German Centre for 
Cardiovascular Research), Partner Site Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany (A.S., 
J.T.K.); Division of Imaging Sciences and Biomedical Engineering, The Rayne 
Institute, KCL, London, United Kingdom (A.S.); The Heart Center at Nationwide 
Children's Hospital, The Ohio State University, Columbus (K.N.H.); Department of 
Paediatric Cardiology and Critical Care Medicine, Children's Hospital, Hannover 
Medical School, Hannover, Germany (P.B.); and Division of Pediatric Cardiology, 
University of Nebraska Medical Center, Children's Hospital and Medical Center, 
Omaha (S.K.). andreas_schuster@gmx.net.
(2)From the Department of Cardiology and Pneumology (A.S.) and Institute for 
Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology (J.T.K.), University Medical Centre 
Göttingen, Georg-August University, Göttingen, Germany; DZHK (German Centre for 
Cardiovascular Research), Partner Site Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany (A.S., 
J.T.K.); Division of Imaging Sciences and Biomedical Engineering, The Rayne 
Institute, KCL, London, United Kingdom (A.S.); The Heart Center at Nationwide 
Children's Hospital, The Ohio State University, Columbus (K.N.H.); Department of 
Paediatric Cardiology and Critical Care Medicine, Children's Hospital, Hannover 
Medical School, Hannover, Germany (P.B.); and Division of Pediatric Cardiology, 
University of Nebraska Medical Center, Children's Hospital and Medical Center, 
Omaha (S.K.).

Heart failure-induced cardiovascular morbidity and mortality constitute a major 
health problem worldwide and result from diverse pathogeneses, including 
coronary artery disease, nonischemic cardiomyopathies, and arrhythmias. 
Assessment of cardiovascular performance is important for early diagnosis and 
accurate management of patients at risk of heart failure. During the past 
decade, cardiovascular magnetic resonance myocardial feature tracking has 
emerged as a useful tool for the quantitative evaluation of cardiovascular 
function. The method allows quantification of biatrial and biventricular 
mechanics from measures of deformation: strain, torsion, and dyssynchrony. The 
purpose of this article is to review the basic principles, clinical 
applications, accuracy, and reproducibility of cardiovascular magnetic resonance 
myocardial feature tracking, highlighting the prognostic implications. It will 
also provide an outlook on how this field might evolve in the future.

© 2016 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCIMAGING.115.004077
PMID: 27009468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. J Clin Pharm Ther. 2016 Apr;41(2):189-97. doi: 10.1111/jcpt.12384. Epub 2016
Mar  23.

Systematic review of the economic evaluations of novel therapeutic agents in 
multiple myeloma: what is the reporting quality?

Aguiar PM(1), Lima TM(1), Storpirtis S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of São 
Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

WHAT IS KNOWN AND OBJECTIVE: Given the increasing healthcare costs and the 
recent introduction of novel agents in the treatment for multiple myeloma (MM), 
an incurable haematologic malignancy, more efficient use of existing resources 
is fundamental. The objective of this study was to systematically review 
economic evaluations of the use of novel agents in MM and assess their reporting 
quality.
METHODS: A literature search was performed in PubMed/Medline, Latin American and 
Caribbean Health Sciences Literature, Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Registry and 
the National Health Services Economic Evaluation Database for economic 
evaluations up to June 2015. The search strategy included Medical Subject 
Headings terms or text words related to MM, economic evaluations and drugs. Full 
economic evaluations of bortezomib, thalidomide or lenalidomide in patients with 
MM that were published in English, Portuguese or Spanish were included. Two 
independent authors performed study selection, data extraction and quality 
assessment using 24 items from the Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation 
Reporting Standards (CHEERS) statement.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Of the 132 potentially relevant records identified, 
eight satisfied the inclusion criteria. Most studies were cost-effectiveness 
analyses combined with cost-utility analyses (n = 6) from the public payer 
perspective (n = 4) and were performed in Europe (n = 6) on patients with 
refractory or relapsed MM (n = 5). All studies were based on economic models, 
with four of them using discrete event simulation. We found bortezomib-based 
therapies to be one of the more commonly selected treatment strategies for 
comparison (n = 7). Overall, the intervention was more effective and costlier 
than the alternative strategy (average of $54 630 per life year; $68 261 per 
quality-adjusted life year-QALY). The CHEERS' total score was 14·6 (SD = 2·6) 
with the most frequent problems being the lack of precision measures for all 
model parameters, no evaluation of heterogeneity of the results by subgroup 
analyses and no description of the role the funder in the identification, 
design, conduct and reporting of the analysis.
WHAT IS NEW AND CONCLUSION: Most analyses of the novel therapeutic agents 
determined that they were cost-effective in MM at a threshold of up to $100 
000/QALY. Nevertheless, the poor reporting quality of the economic studies 
requires improvement to ensure greater transparency.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jcpt.12384
PMID: 27009796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. J Virol. 2016 May 12;90(11):5384-5398. doi: 10.1128/JVI.03216-15. Print 2016
Jun  1.

Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus Nucleocapsid Protein 
Interacts with Nsp9 and Cellular DHX9 To Regulate Viral RNA Synthesis.

Liu L(1), Tian J(1), Nan H(1), Tian M(1), Li Y(1), Xu X(1), Huang B(2), Zhou 
E(2), Hiscox JA(3), Chen H(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, China.
(2)College of Veterinary Medicine, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, China.
(3)NIHR Health Protection Research Unit in Emerging and Zoonotic Infections, 
Liverpool, United Kingdom.
(4)College of Life Sciences, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, China 
chenhy@nwsuaf.edu.cn.

Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) nucleocapsid (N) 
protein is the main component of the viral capsid to encapsulate viral RNA, and 
it is also a multifunctional protein involved in the regulation of host cell 
processes. Nonstructural protein 9 (Nsp9) is the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase 
that plays a critical role in viral RNA transcription and replication. In this 
study, we demonstrate that PRRSV N protein is bound to Nsp9 by protein-protein 
interaction and that the contacting surface on Nsp9 is located in the two 
predicted α-helixes formed by 48 residues at the C-terminal end of the protein. 
Mutagenesis analyses identified E646, E608, and E611 on Nsp9 and Q85 on the N 
protein as the pivotal residues participating in the N-Nsp9 interaction. By 
overexpressing the N protein binding fragment of Nsp9 in infected Marc-145 
cells, the synthesis of viral RNAs, as well as the production of infectious 
progeny viruses, was dramatically inhibited, suggesting that Nsp9-N protein 
association is involved in the process of viral RNA production. In addition, we 
show that PRRSV N interacts with cellular RNA helicase DHX9 and redistributes 
the protein into the cytoplasm. Knockdown of DHX9 increased the ratio of short 
subgenomic mRNAs (sgmRNAs); in contrast, DHX9 overexpression benefited the 
synthesis of longer sgmRNAs and the viral genomic RNA (gRNA). These results 
imply that DHX9 is recruited by the N protein in PRRSV infection to regulate 
viral RNA synthesis. We postulate that N and DHX9 may act as antiattenuation 
factors for the continuous elongation of nascent transcript during 
negative-strand RNA synthesis.
IMPORTANCE: It is unclear whether the N protein of PRRSV is involved in 
regulation of the viral RNA production process. In this report, we demonstrate 
that the N protein of the arterivirus PRRSV participates in viral RNA 
replication and transcription through interacting with Nsp9 and its RdRp and 
recruiting cellular RNA helicase to promote the production of longer viral 
sgmRNAs and gRNA. Our data here provide some new insights into the discontinuous 
to continuous extension of PRRSV RNA synthesis and also offer a new potential 
anti-PRRSV strategy targeting the N-Nsp9 and/or N-DHX9 interaction.

Copyright © 2016, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.03216-15
PMCID: PMC4934760
PMID: 27009951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. J Occup Health. 2016 May 25;58(2):216-9. doi: 10.1539/joh.15-0326-OP. Epub
2016  Mar 24.

Work stress and cardiovascular disease: a life course perspective.

Li J(1), Loerbroks A, Bosma H, Angerer P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Occupational and Social Medicine, Centre for Health and Society, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of Düsseldorf.

Individuals in employment experience stress at work, and numerous 
epidemiological studies have documented its negative health effects, 
particularly on cardiovascular disease (CVD). Although evidence on the various 
interrelationships between work stress and CVD has been accumulated, those 
observations have not yet been conceptualized in terms of a life course 
perspective. Using the chain of risk model, we would like to propose a 
theoretical model incorporating six steps: (1) work stress increases the risk of 
incident CVD in healthy workers. (2) Among those whose work ability is not fully 
and permanently damaged, work stress acts as a determinant of the process of 
return to work after CVD onset. (3) CVD patients experience higher work stress 
after return to work. (4) Work stress increases the risk of recurrent CVD in 
workers with prior CVD. (5) CVD patients who fully lose their work ability 
transit to disability retirement. (6) Disability retirees due to CVD have an 
elevated risk of CVD mortality. The life course perspective might facilitate an 
in-depth understanding of the diverse interrelationships between work stress and 
CVD, thereby leading to work stress management interventions at each period of 
the lifespan and three-level prevention of CVD.

DOI: 10.1539/joh.15-0326-OP
PMCID: PMC5356969
PMID: 27010081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: None declared.


772. JAMA Facial Plast Surg. 2016 Jul 1;18(4):241-9. doi: 
10.1001/jamafacial.2015.2365.

The Cost of Facial Deformity: A Health Utility and Valuation Study.

Dey JK(1), Ishii LE(1), Joseph AW(1), Goines J(2), Byrne PJ(1), Boahene KD(1), 
Ishii M(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Facial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery, Department of 
Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
Maryland.
(2)Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia.
(3)Division of Rhinology, Department of Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery, 
Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.

IMPORTANCE: The impact of facial defects on quality of life as perceived by 
society and the value society places on facial reconstruction are important 
outcomes measures.
OBJECTIVE: To measure the health state utility and dollar value of surgically 
reconstructing facial defects as perceived by society.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A randomized observational study conducted in 
an academic tertiary referral center using a socioeconomically diverse group of 
200 casual observers.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Observers viewed images of faces with defects of 
varying sizes and locations before and after surgical reconstruction. Observers 
imagined if the defect in each image were on their own face and rated (1) their 
health state utility with the defect and (2) how much they would be willing to 
pay to have the defect surgically repaired to normal (perfect repair). 
Established health state utility and contingent valuation metrics were used.
RESULTS: Data from 200 observers were analyzed. Facial defects significantly 
decreased perceived health state utility with the greatest penalty attributed to 
large and centrally located defects. Surgical reconstruction of the facial 
defects increased health state utility to near-normal ranges for all groups 
except large central defects. Participants were willing to pay an average of 
$1170 (95% CI, $767-$1572) to repair a de novo small peripheral defect; they 
were willing to pay $4274 more than the average (95% CI, $3296-$5251) to repair 
a large defect and $2372 more (95% CI, $1379-$3366) to repair a central defect. 
Using these valuation and health utility data, we calculated willingness to pay 
per quality-adjusted life-year (WTP/QALY), a value-related metric. Mean WTP/QALY 
ratios ranged from $639/QALY for repairing small peripheral defects to 
$2838/QALY for repairing large central defects, well below all 
cost-effectiveness thresholds.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Casual observers perceived that facial defects 
significantly decrease quality of life, an effect improved by reconstructive 
surgery. Measuring WTP and calculating WTP/QALY provides novel data to assess 
the social importance and value of facial reconstructive surgery. To our 
knowledge, these are the first data demonstrating that surgical reconstruction 
of facial defects is a high-value intervention as perceived by society. These 
findings have implications for a broad range of stakeholders, including 
patients, surgeons, health policy makers, and payers.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: NA.

DOI: 10.1001/jamafacial.2015.2365
PMID: 27010626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Exp Brain Res. 2016 Aug;234(8):2179-88. doi: 10.1007/s00221-016-4621-9. Epub
 2016 Mar 24.

Developmental changes in intralimb coordination during spontaneous movements of 
human infants from 2 to 3 months of age.

Ohmura Y(1), Gima H(2), Watanabe H(2), Taga G(2), Kuniyoshi Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechano-Informatics, Graduate School of Information Science and 
Technology, The University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8656, 
Japan. ohmura@isi.imi.i.u-tokyo.ac.jp.
(2)Graduate School of Education, The University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, 
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-0033, Japan.
(3)Department of Mechano-Informatics, Graduate School of Information Science and 
Technology, The University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8656, 
Japan.

Human infants show a variety of spontaneous movements in the first few months of 
life. Although the pattern of spontaneous movements changes at approximately 
2 months of age, the precise mechanism that governs the developmental changes in 
intralimb coordination remains unclear. In the present study, we focused on 
knee-ankle coordination during spontaneous movements of human infants from 2 to 
3 months of age. Multiple attitude sensors were used to measure 
three-dimensional angular motion of knee and ankle joint motions. We acquired a 
one-dimensional time series of the knee joint angle around the putative hinge 
joint and a two-dimensional time series of ankle motions on the putative 
sagittal and frontal plane. First, we found that 3-month-old infants show a 
significant predominance to extend their knee joints, remarkably so on the left 
side. To quantify dissociated motions of the knee and ankle, we calculated the 
temporal correlation and the regression slope between them. We observed that 
3-month-old infants moved their ankle joints more independently of knee motions 
than 2-month-old infants. Finally, we found that dissociated motions of the knee 
and ankle simultaneously develop with knee extension predominance. The 
developmental change from synchronization to dissociation of intralimb joint 
movements during spontaneous movements suggests that the development of the 
cortical and/or subcortical mechanism may mediate selective activation and 
inhibition of joint motions at approximately 2 months of age.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-016-4621-9
PMID: 27010721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2016 Jun;16(6):661-71. doi: 
10.1586/14737140.2016.1170595. Epub 2016 Apr 8.

Adjuvant chemotherapy in elderly patients with breast cancer: key challenges.

Pondé N(1), Dal Lago L(2), Azim HA Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)a BrEAST Data Centre, Department of Medicine, Institut Jules Bordet , 
Université Libre de Bruxelles , Brussels , Belgium.
(2)b Medicine Department, Institut Jules Bordet , Université Libre de Bruxelles 
, Brussels , Belgium.

Comment in
    Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2016 Sep;16(9):895.
    Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2016 Sep;16(9):893.

Elderly women with early breast cancer (BC) form a heterogeneous and large 
subgroup (41.8% of women with BC are over 65). Decision making in this subgroup 
is made more difficult by lack of familiarity with their physical, cognitive and 
social issues. Adequate management depends on biological factors and accurate 
clinical evaluation through comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA). CGA can 
help to better select and determine potential risks factors for patients who are 
candidates for adjuvant chemotherapy. It is still recently introduced in 
geriatric oncology and there is a lack of awareness of its importance. Available 
data on adjuvant chemotherapy for BC is limited but suggests it can be of 
benefit for well selected patients, though the risk of short and long-term 
toxicity is significant. Here we provide a discussion of the key practical 
issues in decision making in the setting of adjuvant chemotherapy for elderly BC 
patients.

DOI: 10.1586/14737140.2016.1170595
PMID: 27010772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. JAMA Oncol. 2016 Jul 1;2(7):890-8. doi: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2015.6275.

Economic Analysis of Prostate-Specific Antigen Screening and Selective Treatment 
Strategies.

Roth JA(1), Gulati R(2), Gore JL(3), Cooperberg MR(4), Etzioni R(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Public Health Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 
Seattle, Washington2Hutchinson Institute for Cancer Outcomes Research, Fred 
Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington3Pharmaceutical Outcomes 
Research and Policy Prog.
(2)Division of Public Health Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 
Seattle, Washington.
(3)Department of Urology, University of Washington, Seattle.
(4)Department of Urology, University of California, San Francisco.

Comment in
    JAMA Oncol. 2016 Jul 1;2(7):899-900.
    J Urol. 2016 Oct;196(4):1127-8.

IMPORTANCE: Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) screening for prostate cancer is 
controversial. Experts have suggested more personalized or more conservative 
strategies to improve benefit-risk tradeoffs, but the value of these 
strategies-particularly when combined with increased conservative management for 
low-risk cases-is uncertain.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the potential cost-effectiveness of plausible PSA 
screening strategies and to assess the value added by increased use of 
conservative management among low-risk, screen-detected cases.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A microsimulation model of prostate cancer 
incidence and mortality was created. A simulated contemporary cohort of US men 
beginning at 40 years of age underwent 18 strategies for PSA screening. 
Treatment strategies included (1) contemporary treatment practices based on age 
and cancer stage and grade observed in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End 
Results program in 2010 or (2) selective treatment practices whereby cases with 
a Gleason score lower than 7 and clinical T2a stage cancer or lower are treated 
only after clinical progression, and all other cases undergo contemporary 
treatment practices. National and trial data on PSA growth, screening and biopsy 
patterns, incidence of prostate cancer, treatment distributions, treatment 
efficacy, mortality, health-related quality of life, and direct medical 
expenditure were analyzed. Data were collected from March 18, 2009, to August 
15, 2014, and analyzed from November 20, 2012, to December 11, 2015.
INTERVENTIONS: Eighteen screening strategies that vary by start and stop age, 
screening interval, and criteria for biopsy referral and contemporary or 
selective treatment practices.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Life-years (LYs), quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs), direct medical expenditure, and cost per LY and QALY gained.
RESULTS: All 18 screening strategies were associated with increased LYs (range, 
0.03-0.06) and costs ($263-$1371) compared with no screening, with the cost 
ranging from $7335 to $21 649 per LY. With contemporary treatment, only 
strategies with biopsy referral for PSA levels higher than 10.0 ng/mL or 
age-dependent thresholds were associated with increased QALYs (0.002-0.004), and 
only quadrennial screening of patients aged 55 to 69 years was potentially 
cost-effective in terms of cost per QALY (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, 
$92 446). With selective treatment, all strategies were associated with 
increased QALYs (0.002-0.004), and several strategies were potentially 
cost-effective in terms of cost per QALY (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, 
$70 831-$136 332).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: For PSA screening to be cost-effective, it needs to 
be used conservatively and ideally in combination with a conservative management 
approach for low-risk disease.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2015.6275
PMCID: PMC4945414
PMID: 27010943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare.


776. Med Sci (Paris). 2016 Mar;32(3):231-2. doi: 10.1051/medsci/20163203001. Epub
 2016 Mar 23.

[The favorable evolution of life expectancy: is it an increase of wellness 
related to health?].

[Article in French]

Jusot F(1).

Author information:
(1)Paris sciences et lettres (PSL), Université Paris-Dauphine, Laboratoire 
d'économie de Dauphine, Laboratoire d'économie et gestion des organisations de 
santé (Leda-Legos) Place du maréchal de Lattre-de-Tassigny 75775 Paris, France.

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/20163203001
PMID: 27011236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Diagn Interv Imaging. 2016 May;97(5):505-12. doi:
10.1016/j.diii.2016.02.009.  Epub 2016 Mar 21.

CT and MR imaging in congenital cardiac malformations: Where do we come from and 
where are we going?

Dacher JN(1), Barre E(2), Durand I(3), Hazelzet T(3), Brasseur-Daudruy M(4), 
Blondiaux É(5), Bauer F(6), Dubourg B(7).

Author information:
(1)Radiology, Rouen university hospital, 1, rue de Germont, 76031 Rouen, France; 
INSERM U1096, medicine and pharmacy UFR, 22, boulevard Gambetta, 76183 Rouen, 
France. Electronic address: jean-nicolas.dacher@chu-rouen.fr.
(2)Pediatrics, Rouen university hospital, 1, rue de Germont, 76031 Rouen, 
France; Cardiology, Rouen university hospital, 1, rue de Germont, 76031 Rouen, 
France.
(3)Pediatrics, Rouen university hospital, 1, rue de Germont, 76031 Rouen, 
France.
(4)Radiology, Rouen university hospital, 1, rue de Germont, 76031 Rouen, France.
(5)Radiology, Trousseau hospital, 26, avenue du Dr-Arnold-Netter, 75012 Paris, 
France.
(6)INSERM U1096, medicine and pharmacy UFR, 22, boulevard Gambetta, 76183 Rouen, 
France; Cardiology, Rouen university hospital, 1, rue de Germont, 76031 Rouen, 
France.
(7)Radiology, Rouen university hospital, 1, rue de Germont, 76031 Rouen, France; 
INSERM U1096, medicine and pharmacy UFR, 22, boulevard Gambetta, 76183 Rouen, 
France.

The management of patients with congenital heart disease was profoundly changed 
firstly by the advent of pediatric and prenatal ultrasound and then more 
recently by cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography 
(CT) of the heart and great vessels. The improved life expectancy of these 
patients has brought about new medical and imaging requirements. MRI and CT are 
increasing second line techniques in this group of patients. This article 
summarizes the advantages and limitations of CT and MRI in some frequently 
encountered situations in children and adults followed up for congenital heart 
disease.

Copyright © 2016 Éditions françaises de radiologie. Published by Elsevier Masson 
SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diii.2016.02.009
PMID: 27012158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. J Arthroplasty. 2016 Sep;31(9):1927-32. doi: 10.1016/j.arth.2016.02.035.
Epub  2016 Feb 27.

Factors Predicting the Forgotten Joint Score After Total Knee Arthroplasty.

Behrend H(1), Zdravkovic V(1), Giesinger J(2), Giesinger K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Traumatology, Kantonsspital St. Gallen, 
St. Gallen, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Innsbruck Medical University, 
Innsbruck, Austria.

BACKGROUND: We recently developed the forgotten joint score 12 (FJS-12), a tool 
to assess joint awareness in everyday life. It is unknown whether patient 
factors predicting the outcome of the FJS-12 after total knee arthroplasty (TKA) 
exist.
METHODS: Five hundred forty cases of TKA were analyzed. Objective clinical 
results were obtained for range of motion, stability, and alignment. 
Patient-reported outcome was assessed using the FJS-12. Baseline data and 
complications were recorded. Cluster analysis based on FJS-12, postoperative 
flexion, and age resulted in 3 groups: poor outcome (88 patients), good outcome 
(340 patients), and excellent outcome (118 patients). The characteristics of 
"poor" compared to "excellent" clusters were studied more closely using 
bivariate comparative tests and logistic regression.
RESULTS: We could find that male patients around 63 years with a lower body mass 
index were most likely to be allocated to the cluster "excellent" (defined as 
high FJS-12 and high postoperative flexion). Preoperative extension and flexion, 
stability, varus/valgus alignment, surgery prior TKA, or comorbidities were not 
predictive for the FJS-12 at 1 year follow-up.
CONCLUSION: We identified 3 preoperative patient-related factors that may 
predict the FJS-12 after TKA: body mass index, age, and gender. These findings 
can be used to guide decision-making and important preoperative discussions on 
expectations after TKA.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arth.2016.02.035
PMID: 27012431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. J Urol. 2016 Sep;196(3):672-7. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2016.03.133. Epub 2016
Mar  21.

Life Expectancy and Variation in Treatment for Early Stage Kidney Cancer.

Daskivich TJ(1), Tan HJ(2), Litwin MS(3), Hu JC(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, California. 
Electronic address: Timothy.Daskivich@csmc.edu.
(2)Department of Urology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California-Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California.
(3)Department of Urology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California-Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California; Department of Health Policy and 
Management, Fielding School of Public Health, University of California-Los 
Angeles, Los Angeles, California.
(4)Department of Urology, Weill Cornell School of Medicine, Cornell University, 
New York, New York.

PURPOSE: Patients with limited life expectancy are at risk for overtreatment of 
T1a kidney cancer. We sought to determine patterns of treatment for T1a kidney 
cancer in a nationally representative sample of patients with life expectancy 
less than 10 and less than 5 years.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We sampled 9,825 patients older than 65 years with 
clinical T1a kidney cancer diagnosed between 2000 and 2010 from the SEER 
(Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results)-Medicare database. We performed 
competing risks regression to model survival by age/comorbidity and identified 
patients with life expectancy less than 10 and less than 5 years. Multivariate 
logistic regression was used to determine the probability of aggressive 
treatment with surgery or ablation among those with limited life expectancy.
RESULTS: Life expectancy was less than 10 years in patients 66 to 80 years old 
with a Charlson score of 3+, in those 80 to 84 years old with a Charlson score 
of 1+ and in all patients 85 years old or older. Among those with life 
expectancy less than 10 years the multivariate probability of aggressive 
treatment was 85%, 84%, 82%, 75% and 50% in those 66 to 69, 70 to 74, 75 to 79, 
80 to 84 and 85 years old or older, respectively. In those with life expectancy 
less than 10 years who were treated aggressively treatment was radical 
nephrectomy in 61%, partial nephrectomy in 24% and ablation in 14%. Among those 
with life expectancy less than 5 years (age 85 years or greater with a Charlson 
score of 3+) the multivariate probability of aggressive treatment was 41% and 
more often surgery than ablation (68% vs 32% of patients).
CONCLUSIONS: The majority of patients with life expectancy less than 10 years 
and a significant minority with life expectancy less than 5 years were treated 
with surgery or ablation for T1a kidney cancer. Life expectancy should be better 
incorporated into treatment decision making for early stage kidney cancer.

Copyright © 2016 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2016.03.133
PMID: 27012644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Physiotherapy. 2017 Mar;103(1):90-97. doi: 10.1016/j.physio.2015.10.016.
Epub  2015 Dec 12.

Immediate effects of thoracic spinal mobilisation on erector spinae muscle 
activity and pain in patients with thoracic spine pain: a preliminary randomised 
controlled trial.

Pecos-Martín D(1), de Melo Aroeira AE(1), Verás Silva RL(1), Martínez de Tejada 
Pozo G(1), Rodríguez Solano LM(1), Plaza-Manzano G(2), Gallego-Izquierdo T(1), 
Falla D(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, University of Alcalá, Alcalá de Henares, 
Madrid, Spain.
(2)Department of Medicine, University Complutense of Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(3)School of Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation Sciences, College of Life and 
Environmental Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK; Pain Clinic, 
Center for Anesthesiology, Emergency and Intensive Care Medicine, University 
Hospital Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany. Electronic address: 
deborah.falla@bccn.uni-goettingen.de.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the activity of the thoracic erector spinae muscles 
and perceived pain intensity immediately after central postero-anterior (PA) 
mobilisation of the thoracic spine.
DESIGN: Randomised, placebo-controlled, experimental design.
PARTICIPANTS AND INTERVENTIONS: Thirty-four participants with non-specific 
thoracic pain were randomised to the experimental group [grade III central PA 
mobilisation performed for 3minutes at the level of the seventh thoracic 
vertebra (T7)] or the placebo group (less than grade I central PA mobilisation 
performed for 3minutes at T7).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Before and immediately after PA mobilisation, surface 
electromyography (EMG) was recorded from the thoracic erector spinae muscles as 
the participants performed 10° spine extension from a prone position for 
10seconds. Each participant rated their pain intensity as an investigator 
performed grade III central PA over the most symptomatic thoracic segment, and 
the pressure pain threshold (PPT) was evaluated bilaterally over the erector 
spinae muscles.
RESULTS: The EMG amplitude of thoracic erector spinae activity was reduced 
significantly after the intervention in the experimental group (P<0.05), but not 
in the placebo group. The difference between the groups was significant 
