Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: The authors have nothing 
to disclose.


628. Med Probl Perform Art. 2016 Mar;31(1):37-44. doi: 10.21091/mppa.2016.1007.

Life Expectancy and Cause of Death in Popular Musicians: Is the Popular Musician 
Lifestyle the Road to Ruin?

Kenny DT(1), Asher A.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, Room 468, Bldg H04, The University of 
Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia. Tel 612 9114 0711, fax 612 9351 3838. 
dianna.kenny@sydney.edu.au.

Does a combination of lifestyle pressures and personality, as reflected in 
genre, lead to the early death of popular musicians? We explored overall 
mortality, cause of death, and changes in patterns of death over time and by 
music genre membership in popular musicians who died between 1950 and 2014. The 
death records of 13,195 popular musicians were coded for age and year of death, 
cause of death, gender, and music genre. Musician death statistics were compared 
with age-matched deaths in the US population using actuarial methods. Although 
the common perception is of a glamorous, free-wheeling lifestyle for this 
occupational group, the figures tell a very different story. Results showed that 
popular musicians have shortened life expectancy compared with comparable 
general populations. Results showed excess mortality from violent deaths 
(suicide, homicide, accidental death, including vehicular deaths and drug 
overdoses) and liver disease for each age group studied compared with population 
mortality patterns. These excess deaths were highest for the under-25-year age 
group and reduced chronologically thereafter. Overall mortality rates were twice 
as high compared with the population when averaged over the whole age range. 
Mortality impacts differed by music genre. In particular, excess suicides and 
liver-related disease were observed in country, metal, and rock musicians; 
excess homicides were observed in 6 of the 14 genres, in particular hip hop and 
rap musicians. For accidental death, actual deaths significantly exceeded 
expected deaths for country, folk, jazz, metal, pop, punk, and rock.

DOI: 10.21091/mppa.2016.1007
PMID: 26966963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2016 Jul;16(7):903-15. doi: 
10.1517/14712598.2016.1165661. Epub 2016 Apr 18.

Half-life extended biotherapeutics.

Kontermann RE(1).

Author information:
(1)a Institute of Cell Biology and Immunology , University of Stuttgart , 
Stuttgart , Germany.

Erratum in
    Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2016 Sep;16(9):1179.

INTRODUCTION: Many of the biotherapeutics approved or under development suffer 
from a short half-life necessitating frequent applications in order to maintain 
a therapeutic concentration over an extended period of time. The implementation 
of half-life extension strategies allows the generation of long-lasting 
therapeutics with improved pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties.
AREAS COVERED: This review gives an overview of the different half-life 
extension strategies developed over the past years and their application to 
generate next-generation biotherapeutics. It focuses on srategies already used 
in approved drugs and drugs that are in clinical development. These strategies 
include those aimed at increasing the hydrodynamic radius of the biotherapeutic 
and strategies which further implement recycling by the neonatal Fc receptor 
(FcRn).
EXPERT OPINION: Half-life extension strategies have become an integral part of 
development for many biotherapeutics. A diverse set of these strategies is 
available for the fine-tuning of half-life and adaption to the intended 
treatment modality and disease. Currently, half-life extension is dominated by 
strategies utilizing albumin binding or fusion, fusion to an immunoglobulin Fc 
region and PEGylation. However, a variety of alternative strategies, such as 
fusion of flexible polypeptide chains as PEG mimetic substitute, have reached 
advanced stages and offer further alternatives for half-life extension.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2016.1165661
PMID: 26967759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. J Vis Exp. 2016 Feb 21;(108):53765. doi: 10.3791/53765.

Heterotopic Renal Autotransplantation in a Porcine Model: A Step-by-Step 
Protocol.

Kaths JM(1), Echeverri J(2), Goldaracena N(3), Louis KS(3), Yip P(4), John R(4), 
Mucsi I(5), Ghanekar A(3), Bagli D(6), Selzner M(3), Robinson LA(7).

Author information:
(1)Multi Organ Transplant Program, Department of Surgery, Toronto General 
Hospital; Division of Nephrology, The Hospital for Sick Children; 
moritz.kaths@gmail.com.
(2)Multi Organ Transplant Program, Department of Surgery, Toronto General 
Hospital; Programa de Doctorat en Medicina, La Universitat Autónoma de 
Barcelona.
(3)Multi Organ Transplant Program, Department of Surgery, Toronto General 
Hospital.
(4)Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, Toronto General Hospital.
(5)Department of Medicine, Toronto General Hospital.
(6)Departments of Surgery (Urology) & Physiology, Developmental & Stem Cell 
Biology, The Hospital for Sick Children.
(7)Division of Nephrology, The Hospital for Sick Children.

Kidney transplantation is the treatment of choice for patients suffering from 
end-stage renal disease. It offers better life expectancy and higher quality of 
life when compared to dialysis. Although the last few decades have seen major 
improvements in patient outcomes following kidney transplantation, the 
increasing shortage of available organs represents a severe problem worldwide. 
To expand the donor pool, marginal kidney grafts recovered from extended 
criteria donors (ECD) or donated after circulatory death (DCD) are now accepted 
for transplantation. To further improve the postoperative outcome of these 
marginal grafts, research must focus on new therapeutic approaches such as 
alternative preservation techniques, immunomodulation, gene transfer, and stem 
cell administration. Experimental studies in animal models are the final step 
before newly developed techniques can be translated into clinical practice. 
Porcine kidney transplantation is an excellent model of human transplantation 
and allows investigation of novel approaches. The major advantage of the porcine 
model is its anatomical and physiological similarity to the human body, which 
facilitates the rapid translation of new findings to clinical trials. This 
article offers a surgical step-by-step protocol for an autotransplantation model 
and highlights key factors to ensure experimental success. Adequate pre- and 
postoperative housing, attentive anesthesia, and consistent surgical techniques 
result in favorable postoperative outcomes. Resection of the contralateral 
native kidney provides the opportunity to assess post-transplant graft function. 
The placement of venous and urinary catheters and the use of metabolic cages 
allow further detailed evaluation. For long-term follow-up studies and 
investigation of alternative graft preservation techniques, autotransplantation 
models are superior to allotransplantation models, as they avoid the confounding 
bias posed by rejection and immunosuppressive medication.

DOI: 10.3791/53765
PMCID: PMC4828178
PMID: 26967919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 2016 May;25(5):704-13. doi:
10.1016/j.jse.2015.12.022.  Epub 2016 Mar 8.

Arthroplasty for the surgical management of complex proximal humerus fractures 
in the elderly: a cost-utility analysis.

Nwachukwu BU(1), Schairer WW(2), McCormick F(3), Dines DM(2), Craig EV(4), 
Gulotta LV(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, 
NY, USA. Electronic address: nwachukwub@hss.edu.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, 
NY, USA.
(3)Sports Medicine Department, Soar Institute, Miami, FL, USA.
(4)University of Minnesota, TRIA Orthopaedic Center, Bloomington, MN, USA.

BACKGROUND: Shoulder hemiarthroplasty (HA) has been the standard treatment for 
complex proximal humerus fractures in the elderly requiring surgery but not 
amenable to fixation. Reverse total shoulder arthroplasty (RTSA) has also 
emerged as a costly albeit highly effective alternative. The purpose of this 
study was to compare the cost-effectiveness of nonoperative fracture care, HA, 
and RTSA for complex proximal humerus fractures from the perspective of both 
U.S. payors and hospitals.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed for the treatment alternatives. Costs 
were expressed in 2013 U.S. dollars and effectiveness in quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs). The principal outcome measure was incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Sensitivity analyses were performed to evaluate 
model assumptions.
RESULTS: In the base case, from the payor perspective, RTSA was associated with 
an ICER of $8100/QALY; HA was eliminated from payor analysis as a 
cost-ineffective strategy. From the hospital perspective, however, HA was not 
cost-ineffective and the ICER for HA was $36,700/QALY, with RTSA providing 
incremental effectiveness at $57,400/QALY. RTSA was the optimal strategy in 61% 
and 54% of payor and hospital probabilistic sensitivity analyses, respectively. 
The preferred strategy was dependent on associated QALY gains, primary RTSA 
cost, and failure rates for RTSA.
CONCLUSIONS: RTSA can be a cost-effective intervention in the surgical treatment 
of complex proximal humerus fractures. HA can also be a cost-effective 
intervention, depending on the cost perspective (cost-ineffective for payor but 
cost-effective for the hospital). This analysis highlights the opportunities for 
increased cost-sharing strategies to alleviate the cost burden on hospitals.

Copyright © 2016 Journal of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery Board of Trustees. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jse.2015.12.022
PMID: 26968089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. BMC Gastroenterol. 2016 Mar 11;16:33. doi: 10.1186/s12876-016-0449-9.

Acute cholangitis in an old patient with Crigler-Najjar syndrome type II - a 
case report.

Fernandes SR(1)(2), Moura CM(3), Rodrigues B(3), Correia LA(3), Cortez-Pinto 
H(3), Velosa J(3).

Author information:
(1)Serviço de Gastrenterologia e Hepatologia, Hospital de Santa Maria, Centro 
Hospitalar Lisboa Norte, Avenida Professor Egas Moniz, Lisboa, 1649-035, 
Portugal. Samuelrmfernandes@gmail.com.
(2), Avenida Tomás Fonseca n° 36, 13, Lisbon, B 1600-275, Portugal. 
Samuelrmfernandes@gmail.com.
(3)Serviço de Gastrenterologia e Hepatologia, Hospital de Santa Maria, Centro 
Hospitalar Lisboa Norte, Avenida Professor Egas Moniz, Lisboa, 1649-035, 
Portugal.

BACKGROUND: Crigler-Najjar syndrome (CN) is a very rare genetic disorder 
characterized by an inability to conjugate bilirubin. Contrary to CN type I, 
patients with CN II exhibit residual capacity to conjugate bilirubin and may 
present a normal life expectancy.
CASE PRESENTATION: We report an unusual late diagnosis of CN type II in an 
80-year-old female admitted with severe acute cholangitis. While the patient 
present typical clinical and radiologic signs of bile duct obstruction and 
cholangitis, her blood analysis showed severe unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia. 
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography confirmed the diagnosis and 
allowed therapeutic intervention. The anatomopathologic examination of her 
gallbladder following cholecystectomy showed signs of chronic cholecystitis.
CONCLUSION: The risk of gallstone disease may be increased in patients with CN 
syndrome. While unusual, we alert to this curious and potential life-threatening 
presentation.

DOI: 10.1186/s12876-016-0449-9
PMCID: PMC4788912
PMID: 26968162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Zoology (Jena). 2016 Jun;119(3):207-215. doi: 10.1016/j.zool.2016.01.006.
Epub  2016 Feb 24.

Functional morphology of gill ventilation of the goosefish, Lophius americanus 
(Lophiiformes: Lophiidae).

Farina SC(1), Bemis WE(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Cornell University, E150 
Corson Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA. Electronic address: stacy.farina@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Cornell University, E150 
Corson Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA.

The goosefish, Lophius americanus, is a dorso-ventrally compressed marine fish 
that spends most of its life sitting on the substrate waiting to ambush prey. 
Species in the genus Lophius have some of the slowest ventilatory cycles 
recorded in fishes, with a typical cycle lasting more than 90s. They have a 
large gill chamber, supported by long branchiostegal rays and ending in a 
siphon-like gill opening positioned underneath and behind the base of the 
pectoral fin. Our goals were to characterize the kinematics of gill ventilation 
in L. americanus relative to those of more typical ray-finned fishes, address 
previous assertions about ventilation in this genus, and describe the anatomy of 
the gill opening. We found that phase 1 of ventilation (during which both the 
buccal and gill chamber are expanding) is greatly increased in duration relative 
to that of typical ray-finned fishes (ranging from 62 to 127s), and during this 
phase, the branchiostegal rays are slowly expanding. This slow expansion is 
almost visually imperceptible, especially from a dorsal view. Despite this 
unusually long phase 1, the pattern of skeletal movements follows that of a 
typical actinopterygian, refuting previous assertions that Lophius does not use 
its jaws, suspensorium, and operculum during ventilation. When individuals were 
disturbed from the sediment, they tended to breathe more rapidly by decreasing 
the duration of phase 1 (to 18-30s). Dissections of the gill opening revealed a 
previously undocumented dorsal extension of the adductor hyohyoideus muscle, 
which passes from between the branchiostegal rays, through the ventro-medial 
wall of the gill opening, and to the dorsal midline of the body. This morphology 
of the adductor hyohyoideus shares similarities with that of many 
Tetraodontiformes, and we suggest that it may be a synapomorphy for 
Lophiiformes+Tetraodontiformes. The specialized anatomy and function of the gill 
chamber of Lophius represents extreme modifications that provide insight into 
the potential limits of the actinopterygian gill ventilatory system.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.zool.2016.01.006
PMID: 26968523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Radiat Oncol. 2016 Mar 11;11:38. doi: 10.1186/s13014-016-0609-7.

Personalized treatment planning with a model of radiation therapy outcomes for 
use in multiobjective optimization of IMRT plans for prostate cancer.

Smith WP(1), Kim M(2), Holdsworth C(3), Liao J(2), Phillips MH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Washington Medical Center, 
1959 NE Pacific St, Box 356043, Seattle, 98115, WA, USA. 
wpsmith@u.washington.edu.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Washington Medical Center, 
1959 NE Pacific St, Box 356043, Seattle, 98115, WA, USA.
(3)Brigham and Women's Hospital, 75 Francis St., Boston, 02115, MA, USA.

PURPOSE: To build a new treatment planning approach that extends beyond 
radiation transport and IMRT optimization by modeling the radiation therapy 
process and prognostic indicators for more outcome-focused decision making.
METHODS: An in-house treatment planning system was modified to include 
multiobjective inverse planning, a probabilistic outcome model, and a 
multi-attribute decision aid. A genetic algorithm generated a set of plans 
embodying trade-offs between the separate objectives. An influence diagram 
network modeled the radiation therapy process of prostate cancer using expert 
opinion, results of clinical trials, and published research. A Markov model 
calculated a quality adjusted life expectancy (QALE), which was the endpoint for 
ranking plans.
RESULTS: The Multiobjective Evolutionary Algorithm (MOEA) was designed to 
produce an approximation of the Pareto Front representing optimal tradeoffs for 
IMRT plans. Prognostic information from the dosimetrics of the plans, and from 
patient-specific clinical variables were combined by the influence diagram. 
QALEs were calculated for each plan for each set of patient characteristics. 
Sensitivity analyses were conducted to explore changes in outcomes for 
variations in patient characteristics and dosimetric variables. The model 
calculated life expectancies that were in agreement with an independent clinical 
study.
CONCLUSIONS: The radiation therapy model proposed has integrated a number of 
different physical, biological and clinical models into a more comprehensive 
model. It illustrates a number of the critical aspects of treatment planning 
that can be improved and represents a more detailed description of the therapy 
process. A Markov model was implemented to provide a stronger connection between 
dosimetric variables and clinical outcomes and could provide a practical, 
quantitative method for making difficult clinical decisions.

DOI: 10.1186/s13014-016-0609-7
PMCID: PMC4788837
PMID: 26968687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Eur J Health Econ. 2017 Mar;18(2):255-267. doi: 10.1007/s10198-016-0775-4.
Epub  2016 Mar 11.

Treatment cost and life expectancy of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL): a 
discrete event simulation model on a UK population-based observational cohort.

Wang HI(1), Smith A(2), Aas E(3), Roman E(2), Crouch S(2), Burton C(4), Patmore 
R(5).

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology and Cancer Statistics Group (ECSG), Department of Health 
Sciences, University of York, Seebohm Rowntree Building, Heslington, York, YO10 
5DD, UK. han-i.wang@york.ac.uk.
(2)Epidemiology and Cancer Statistics Group (ECSG), Department of Health 
Sciences, University of York, Seebohm Rowntree Building, Heslington, York, YO10 
5DD, UK.
(3)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, University of Oslo, 
Oslo, Norway.
(4)Haematological Malignancy Diagnostic Service, St. James's University 
Hospital, Leeds, UK.
(5)Queen's Centre for Oncology and Haematology, Castle Hill Hospital, Hull, UK.

BACKGROUND: Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is the commonest non-Hodgkin 
lymphoma. Previous studies examining the cost of treating DLBCL have generally 
focused on a specific first-line therapy alone; meaning that their findings can 
neither be extrapolated to the general patient population nor to other points 
along the treatment pathway. Based on empirical data from a representative 
population-based patient cohort, the objective of this study was to develop a 
simulation model that could predict costs and life expectancy of treating DLBCL.
METHODS: All patients newly diagnosed with DLBCL in the UK's population-based 
Haematological Malignancy Research Network ( www.hmrn.org ) in 2007 were 
followed until 2013 (n = 271). Mapped treatment pathways, alongside cost 
information derived from the National Tariff 2013/14, were incorporated into a 
patient-level simulation model in order to reflect the heterogeneities of 
patient characteristics and treatment options. The NHS and social services 
perspective was adopted, and all outcomes were discounted at 3.5 % per annum.
RESULTS: Overall, the expected total medical costs were £22,122 for those 
treated with curative intent, and £2930 for those managed palliatively. For 
curative chemotherapy, the predicted medical costs were £14,966, £23,449 and 
£7376 for first-, second- and third-line treatments, respectively. The estimated 
annual cost for treating DLBCL across the UK was around £88-92 million.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first cost modelling study using empirical data to 
provide 'real world' evidence throughout the DLBCL treatment pathway. Future 
application of the model could include evaluation of new technologies/treatments 
to support healthcare decision makers, especially in the era of personalised 
medicine.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-016-0775-4
PMCID: PMC5313581
PMID: 26969332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: This study was funded by Bloodwise. The authors: 
Han-I Wang, Alexandra Smith, Eline Aas, Eve Roman, Simon Crouch, Cathy Burton, 
and Russell Patmore have no conflicts of interest.


636. J Bone Miner Metab. 2017 Mar;35(2):199-208. doi: 10.1007/s00774-016-0742-2.
Epub  2016 Mar 11.

Cost-effectiveness of dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry plus antiresorptive 
treatment in Australian women with breast cancer who receive aromatase 
inhibitors.

Sowa PM(1), Downes MJ(2), Gordon LG(2).

Author information:
(1)Research School of Population Health, Australian National University, Acton, 
ACT, 2601, Australia. m.sowa@anu.edu.au.
(2)Centre for Applied Health Economics, Menzies Health Institute Queensland, 
Griffith University, Meadowbrook, QLD, 4131, Australia.

Postmenopausal women with breast cancer on aromatase inhibitor (AI) treatment 
are at increased risk of bone mineral density loss, which may lead to minimal 
trauma fractures. We examined the cost-effectiveness of dual energy X-ray 
absorptiometry (DXA) with antiresorptive (AR) therapy compared with fracture 
risk assessment, lifestyle advice, and vitamin supplementation. We used a 
hypothetical Markov cohort model of lifetime duration for 60-year-old women with 
early stage breast cancer receiving AIs. The data to inform the model came from 
medical literature, epidemiological reports, and costing data sets. Two 
eligibility scenarios for AR therapy were considered: (A) osteoporosis and (B) 
osteopenia or osteoporosis. The main outcomes were incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life years gained and cumulative fractures per 1000 women, 
calculated relative to the comparator. Key aspects of the model were explored in 
sensitivity analyses. Due to relatively low effectiveness gains, the outcomes 
were primarily driven by the costs. The incremental cost per quality-adjusted 
life year gained was A$47,556 and A$253,000 for scenarios A and B, respectively. 
The numbers of fractures avoided were 56 and 77 per 1000 women, respectively. 
The results were most sensitive to the initial probability of osteoporosis, 
baseline risk of fracture, and cohort starting age. Compared with risk 
assessment and lifestyle advice only, a DXA scan followed by an AR treatment is 
potentially cost-effective for women aged 60 and over undergoing AI therapy for 
early breast cancer. However, the number of fractures averted through this 
intervention is small.

DOI: 10.1007/s00774-016-0742-2
PMID: 26969395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Int J Infect Dis. 2016 May;46:34-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ijid.2016.03.003. Epub
2016  Mar 8.

Taking forward the World TB Day 2016 theme 'Unite to End Tuberculosis' for the 
WHO Africa Region.

Ntoumi F(1), Kaleebu P(2), Macete E(3), Mfinanga S(4), Chakaya J(5), Yeboah-Manu 
D(6), Bates M(7), Mwaba P(8), Maeurer M(9), Petersen E(10), Zumla A(11).

Author information:
(1)Fondation Congolaise pour la Recherche Médicale, Brazzaville, Republic of 
Congo; Institute for Tropical Medicine, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, 
Germany. Electronic address: fntoumi@fcrm-congo.com.
(2)Uganda Virus Research Institute Research Unit on AIDS, Entebbe, Uganda.
(3)Centro de Investigação em Saude de Manhiça, and National Directare of Public 
Health, Ministry of Health, Maputo, Mozambique.
(4)Muhimbili Medical Research Centre, National Institute for Medical Research, 
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.
(5)Department of Medicine, Dermatology and Psychiatry, Kenyatta University, 
Nairobi, Kenya.
(6)Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research, Accra, Ghana.
(7)UNZA-UCLMS Research and Training Project, University Teaching Hospital, 
Lusaka, Zambia.
(8)UNZA-UCLMS Research and Training Project, University Teaching Hospital, 
Lusaka, Zambia; Ministry of Health, Lusaka, Zambia.
(9)Division of Therapeutic Immunology, Department of Laboratory Medicine, 
Karolinska Institutet, and Centre for Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation, 
Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(10)University of Aarhus, Aarhus, Denmark; The Royal Hospital, Muscat, Oman.
(11)UNZA-UCLMS Research and Training Project, University Teaching Hospital, 
Lusaka, Zambia; Division of Infection and Immunity, University College London, 
and NIHR Biomedical Research Centre, UCL Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, London, 
UK.

Tuberculosis (TB) remains a global emergency, with an estimated 9.6 million new 
TB cases worldwide reported in 2014. Twenty-eight percent of these cases were in 
the World Health Organization (WHO) Africa Region, where the annual case 
detection rate was 281 per 100000 population-more than double the global average 
of 133 per 100000. Of the 9.6 million people who developed TB, an estimated 1.2 
million (12%) were HIV-positive, and the Africa Region accounted for 74% of 
these cases. Three million people with TB remain undiagnosed and untreated. 
Globally, an estimated 480000 had multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB). Whilst of the 
African countries, only South Africa has reported a high prevalence of MDR-TB, 
it is likely that all of Sub-Saharan Africa has an unreported high load of 
drug-resistant TB. Tragically, in 2014, only 48% of individuals diagnosed with 
MDR-TB had successful treatment and an estimated 190000 people died of MDR-TB. 
Of the global TB funding gap of US$ 0.8 billion, the largest funding gap was in 
the Africa Region, amounting to US$ 0.4 billion in 2015. The MDR-TB pandemic in 
particular now threatens to devastate entire regions and may fundamentally alter 
the life-expectancy and demographic profile of many countries in Sub-Saharan 
Africa. The theme designated for this year's World TB Day, March 24, 2016, is 
'Unite to End TB'. From the Africa Region, there is an urgent need to seriously 
address the political, economic, and social factors that influence 
host-Mycobacterium tuberculosis interactions and result in disease. Recent 
political and funder initiatives that provide renewed hope for the alleviation 
of Africa's TB and TB/HIV problems are discussed.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijid.2016.03.003
PMCID: PMC7110434
PMID: 26969406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Med Clin (Barc). 2016 Apr 15;146(8):335-8. doi:
10.1016/j.medcli.2016.01.017.  Epub 2016 Mar 9.

[Fitness and quality of life in kidney transplant recipients: case-control 
study].

[Article in Spanish]

Hernández Sánchez S(1), Carrero JJ(2), García López D(3), Herrero Alonso JA(4), 
Menéndez Alegre H(4), Ruiz JR(5).

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Investigación PROmoting FITness and Health through physical activity 
(PROFITH), Departamento de Educación Física y Deportiva, Facultad de Ciencias 
del Deporte, Universidad de Granada, Granada, España. Electronic address: 
sonsohs@gmail.com.
(2)Renal Medicine and Baxter Novum, CLINTEC, Karolinska Institutet, Estocolmo, 
Suecia.
(3)Laboratorio de Fisiología, Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad 
Europea Miguel de Cervantes, Valladolid, España.
(4)Laboratorio de Fisiología, Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad 
Europea Miguel de Cervantes, Valladolid, España; Centro de Investigación en 
Discapacidad Física, Valladolid, España.
(5)Grupo de Investigación PROmoting FITness and Health through physical activity 
(PROFITH), Departamento de Educación Física y Deportiva, Facultad de Ciencias 
del Deporte, Universidad de Granada, Granada, España.

Comment in
    Med Clin (Barc). 2016 Oct 7;147(7):326.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: We analyzed the levels of fitness, muscle structure 
and quality of life of adults after kidney transplant and healthy adults.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 16 kidney transplant patients and 21 healthy 
controls performed several fitness test, isokinetic evaluation of knee flexion 
and extension and ultrasonography muscle thickness assessment. They also 
completed the quality of life questionnaire SF-36.
RESULTS: Physical fitness, muscle structure and quality of life of the kidney 
transplant recipients were significantly poorer than the controls. The 
transplant patients performed less well in the "get up and go" and "sit to 
stand" test (p<.001) as well as in assessments of muscle structure, strength and 
power. The patients had a poorer score in their quality of life assessments, 
differing from the controls in domains of physical function, physical role, 
general health and social function (p<.001).
DISCUSSION: Fitness, strength and muscle mass are diminished in kidney 
transplant patients, resulting in a poorer quality of life which might entail an 
increased risk to their health.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medcli.2016.01.017
PMID: 26969426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Eur Clin Respir J. 2016 Mar 10;3:30629. doi: 10.3402/ecrj.v3.30629.
eCollection  2016.

Opioids: an unexplored option for treatment of dyspnea in IPF.

Kohberg C(1), Andersen CU(2), Bendstrup E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Diseases and Allergy, Aarhus University Hospital, 
Aarhus, Denmark.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, 
Denmark; chlade@rm.dk.

BACKGROUND: Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is the most common among the 
idiopathic interstitial pneumonias and has the worst prognosis, with a median 
survival of 3-5 years. The most common symptom in IPF is dyspnea, impacting on 
the patient's quality of life and life expectancy. Morphine in the treatment of 
dyspnea has been investigated but with conflicting results. This review aims to 
clarify the role of opioids in the treatment of dyspnea in patients with IPF.
METHODS: A literature search was performed using the MeSH and PubMed databases. 
As only very few studies included patients with IPF, studies conducted primarily 
with patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease were also included. In 
total, 14 articles were found.
RESULTS: Seven studies reported use of systemic morphine and seven studies of 
inhaled morphine. Five of the seven studies investigating systemic 
administration detected an improvement in either dyspnea or exercise capacity, 
whereas no beneficial effect on dyspnea was detected in any study using inhaled 
morphine. No severe adverse effects such as respiratory depression were reported 
in any study, although constipation was reported as a notable adverse effect.
CONCLUSIONS: Results were inconsistent, but in some studies systemic morphine 
administration showed a significant improvement in the dyspnea score on a visual 
analog scale without observation of severe side effects. Nebulized morphine had 
no effect on dyspnea.

DOI: 10.3402/ecrj.v3.30629
PMCID: PMC4788766
PMID: 26969472


640. Postgrad Med J. 2016 May;92(1087):271-81. doi:
10.1136/postgradmedj-2015-133718.  Epub 2016 Mar 11.

Left ventricular assist device: a bridge to transplant or destination therapy?

Patel S(1), Nicholson L(1), Cassidy CJ(2), Wong KY(2).

Author information:
(1)Hull York Medical School, Hull, UK.
(2)Lancashire Cardiac Centre, Blackpool Victoria Hospital, Blackpool, UK.

Heart failure is a major problem worldwide; it is the leading cause of 
hospitalisation and is posing a huge financial burden. Advances in healthcare 
have contributed to increased life expectancy, with a resultant increase in the 
number of patients with chronic heart failure. For many patients who are still 
severely symptomatic despite optimal medical therapy and cardiac 
resynchronisation therapy, cardiac transplantation would be the preferred 
treatment option. However, hopes are cut short with a limited donor pool of 
hearts for the increasing number of patients requiring cardiac transplantation. 
One uprising method to fill this treatment void for patients with advanced 
end-stage heart failure (ESHF) is the Left Ventricular Assist Device (LVAD). 
Although traditionally used as a bridge to transplantation, owing to limitation 
of suitable donors, evidence suggests increasing potential for the use of LVAD 
as destination therapy (DT), that is, lifelong permanent support. Exploration of 
DT is a promising avenue to many patients suffering with ESHF who may never be 
fortunate enough to receive a heart transplant, but not without reservations of 
its efficacy, safety, effects on quality-adjusted life years and 
cost-effectiveness, especially in comparison to heart transplantation.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/postgradmedj-2015-133718
PMID: 26969730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Australas J Ageing. 2016 Jun;35(2):139-42. doi: 10.1111/ajag.12267. Epub
2016  Mar 11.

Better way to measure ageing in East Asia that takes life expectancy into 
account.

Scherbov S(1), Sanderson WC(1)(2), Gietel-Basten S(3).

Author information:
(1)World Population Program, International Institute for Applied Systems 
Analysis, Laxenburg, Austria.
(2)Department of Economics, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, New York, USA.
(3)Department of Social Policy and Intervention, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
UK.

AIM: The aim of the study was to improve the measurement of ageing taking into 
account characteristics of populations and in particular changes in life 
expectancy.
METHOD: Using projected life tables, we calculated prospective old age 
dependency ratios (POADRs) to 2060, placing the boundary to old age at a moving 
point with a fixed remaining life expectancy (RLE) for all countries of East 
Asia.
RESULTS: POADRs grow less rapidly than old age dependency ratios (OADRs). For 
example, in the Republic of Korea, the OADR is forecast to increase from around 
0.1 in 1980 to around 0.8 in 2060, while the POADR is forecast to increase from 
around 0.1 to 0.4 over the same period.
CONCLUSION: Policy makers may wish to take into account the fact that the 
increases in measures of ageing will be slower when those measures are adjusted 
for changes in life expectancy.

© 2016 AJA Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/ajag.12267
PMID: 26970092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Bull Cancer. 2016 Mar;103(3):219. doi: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2016.02.007.

[On wales and men...].

[Article in French]

L'Allemain G(1), Bay JO(2), Vignot S(2); Comité de rédaction du Bulletin du 
Cancer.

Author information:
(1)France. Electronic address: gilles.lallemain@unice.fr.
(2)France.

Comment on
    Bull Cancer. 2016 Mar;103(3):224-6.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2016.02.007
PMID: 26970506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Regul Toxicol Pharmacol. 2016 Jun;77:175-83. doi:
10.1016/j.yrtph.2016.03.003.  Epub 2016 Mar 9.

Development of an inhalation unit risk factor for cadmium.

Haney J Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), Austin, TX, United States. 
Electronic address: joseph.haney@tceq.texas.gov.

An inhalation unit risk factor (URF) was developed for cadmium. The URF is based 
on excess lung cancer mortality in a key epidemiological study of cadmium 
smelter workers (Park et al., 2012). The Park et al. (2012) study is an update 
of the Thun et al. (1985) cohort that was previously used to derive a URF in 
USEPA (1985). Park et al. re-analyzed the cadmium smelter worker population 
(near Denver, CO) using more detailed work history information, a revised 
cadmium exposure matrix, a detailed retrospective exposure assessment for 
arsenic (potential confounder), and updated mortality data (through 2002). 
Grouped observed and expected number of lung cancer mortalities along with 
cumulative cadmium exposures were used in the current study to obtain the 
maximum likelihood estimate and asymptotic variance of the slope (β) for the 
linear multiplicative relative risk model using Poisson regression modeling. 
Life-table analyses were used to derive the final URF for cadmium of 4.9E-04 per 
μg Cd/m(3). The corresponding lifetime air concentration at the 1 in 100,000 no 
significant excess risk level is 0.020 μg Cd/m(3), which can be used to protect 
the general public in Texas against the potential carcinogenic effects from 
chronic exposure to cadmium and cadmium compounds.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yrtph.2016.03.003
PMID: 26970597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Thromb Res. 2016 May;141:69-76. doi: 10.1016/j.thromres.2016.02.030. Epub
2016  Mar 2.

Nonacog beta pegol (N9-GP) in haemophilia B: A multinational phase III safety 
and efficacy extension trial (paradigm™4).

Young G(1), Collins PW(2), Colberg T(3), Chuansumrit A(4), Hanabusa H(5), Lentz 
SR(6), Mahlangu J(7), Mauser-Bunschoten EP(8), Négrier C(9), Oldenburg J(10), 
Patiroglu T(11), Santagostino E(12), Tehranchi R(3), Zak M(3), Karim FA(13).

Author information:
(1)Hemostasis and Thrombosis Center, Children's Hospital Los Angeles, University 
of Southern California Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, United States. 
Electronic address: gyoung@chla.usc.edu.
(2)Arthur Bloom Haemophilia Centre, Institute of Infection and Immunity, School 
of Medicine, Cardiff University, Cardiff, United Kingdom.
(3)Novo Nordisk A/S, Søborg, Denmark.
(4)Faculty of Medicine, Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok, 
Thailand.
(5)Department of Hematology, Ogikubo Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine, Carver College of Medicine, University of 
Iowa, Iowa City, IA, United States.
(7)Haemophilia Comprehensive Care Centre, Faculty of Health Sciences, NHLS and 
University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(8)Van Creveldkliniek, University Medical Centre, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(9)Hôpital Edouard Herriot, University Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lyon, France.
(10)Institute of Experimental Haematology and Transfusion Medicine, University 
Clinic Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(11)Erciyes University Medical Faculty, Kayseri, Turkey.
(12)Angelo Bianchi Bonomi Hemophilia and Thrombosis Center, IRCCS Ca' Granda 
Foundation, Maggiore Hospital Policlinico, Milan, Italy.
(13)Haemophilia Center, National Blood Centre, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

INTRODUCTION: Paradigm™4 was an international extension trial investigating the 
safety and efficacy of nonacog beta pegol, a recombinant glycoPEGylated factor 
IX (FIX) with extended half-life, in haemophilia B patients (FIX activity ≤2%; 
aged 13-70years) who had previously participated in phase III pivotal 
(paradigm™2) or surgery (paradigm™3) trials.
METHODS: Patients chose to continue treatment with nonacog beta pegol in either 
one of two once-weekly prophylaxis arms (10IU/kg or 40IU/kg), or an on-demand 
arm (40IU/kg for mild/moderate bleeds; 80IU/kg for severe bleeds). The primary 
objective was to evaluate immunogenicity; key secondary objectives included 
assessing safety and haemostatic efficacy in the treatment and prevention of 
bleeds.
RESULTS: Seventy-one patients received prophylaxis or on-demand treatment. No 
patient developed an inhibitor and no safety concerns were identified. The 
success rate for the treatment of reported bleeds was 94.6%; most (87.9%) 
resolved with one injection. The median annualised bleeding rate for patients on 
prophylaxis was 1.36 (interquartile range [IQR] 0.00-2.23) and 1.00 (IQR 
0.00-2.03) for the 10 and 40IU/kg treatment arms, respectively. The mean FIX 
activity trough achieved for 10 and 40IU once weekly was 9.8% and 21.3%, 
respectively. Fourteen patients on prophylaxis underwent 23 minor surgical 
procedures; haemostatic perioperative outcomes for all of those evaluated were 
'excellent' or 'good'.
CONCLUSIONS: Nonacog beta pegol showed a favourable tolerability profile (with 
no safety issues identified) with good prophylactic protection and control of 
bleeding in previously treated adult and adolescent haemophilia B patients.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thromres.2016.02.030
PMID: 26970716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Cancer Causes Control. 2016 Apr;27(4):569-81. doi:
10.1007/s10552-016-0732-7.  Epub 2016 Mar 12.

The potential harms of primary human papillomavirus screening in over-screened 
women: a microsimulation study.

Naber SK(1), de Kok IM(2), Matthijsse SM(2), van Ballegooijen M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Center, P.O. Box 2040, 3000 CA, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. s.naber@erasmusmc.nl.
(2)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Center, P.O. Box 2040, 3000 CA, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: It is well acknowledged that HPV testing should not be performed at 
young age and at short intervals. Cytological screening practices have shown 
that over-screening, i.e., from a younger age and at shorter intervals than 
recommended, is hard to avoid. We quantified the consequences of a switch to 
primary HPV screening for over-screened women, taking into account its higher 
sensitivity but lower specificity than cytology.
METHODS: The health effects of using the HPV test instead of cytology as the 
primary screening method were determined with the MISCAN-Cervix model. We varied 
the age women start screening and the interval between screens. In the 
sensitivity analyses, we varied the background risk of cervical cancer, the HPV 
prevalence, the discount rate, the triage strategy after cytology, and the test 
characteristics of both cytology and the HPV test.
RESULTS: For women screened 5 yearly from age 30, 32 extra deaths per 100,000 
simulated women were prevented when switching from primary cytology to primary 
HPV testing. For annual screening from age 20, such a switch resulted in 6 extra 
deaths prevented. It was associated with 9,044 more positive primary screens in 
the former scenario versus 76,480 in the latter. Under all conditions, for women 
screened annually, switching to HPV screening resulted in a net loss of 
quality-adjusted life years.
CONCLUSION: For over-screened women, the harms associated with a lower test 
specificity outweigh the life years gained when switching from primary cytology 
to primary HPV testing. The extent of over-screening should be considered when 
deciding on inclusion of primary HPV screening in cervical cancer screening 
guidelines.

DOI: 10.1007/s10552-016-0732-7
PMCID: PMC4796367
PMID: 26970740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. J Biomech. 2016 Aug 16;49(12):2374-82. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiomech.2016.02.042.
Epub  2016 Feb 26.

Mechanical strength of aneurysmatic and dissected human thoracic aortas at 
different shear loading modes.

Sommer G(1), Sherifova S(1), Oberwalder PJ(2), Dapunt OE(2), Ursomanno PA(3), 
DeAnda A(4), Griffith BE(5), Holzapfel GA(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomechanics, Graz University of Technology, Austria.
(2)University Clinic of Cardiac Surgery, Medical University Graz, Austria.
(3)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, NYU Langone Medical Center, New York, 
NY, USA.
(4)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University of Texas Medical Branch, 
Galveston, TX, USA.
(5)Departments of Mathematics and Biomedical Engineering, University of North 
Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(6)Institute of Biomechanics, Graz University of Technology, Austria. Electronic 
address: holzapfel@tugraz.at.

Rupture of aneurysms and acute dissection of the thoracic aorta are 
life-threatening events which affect tens of thousands of people per year. The 
underlying mechanisms remain unclear and the aortic wall is known to lose its 
structural integrity, which in turn affects its mechanical response to the 
loading conditions. Hence, research on such aortic diseases is an important area 
in biomechanics. The present study investigates the mechanical properties of 
aneurysmatic and dissected human thoracic aortas via triaxial shear and uniaxial 
tensile testing with a focus on the former. In particular, ultimate stress 
values from triaxial shear tests in different orientations regarding the aorta׳s 
orthotropic microstructure, and from uniaxial tensile tests in radial, 
circumferential and longitudinal directions were determined. In total, 16 human 
thoracic aortas were investigated from which it is evident that the aortic media 
has much stronger resistance to rupture under 'out-of-plane' than under 
'in-plane' shear loadings. Under different shear loadings the aortic tissues 
revealed anisotropic failure properties with higher ultimate shear stresses and 
amounts of shear in the longitudinal than in the circumferential direction. 
Furthermore, the aortic media decreased its tensile strength as follows: 
circumferential direction >longitudinaldirection> radial direction. Anisotropic 
and nonlinear tissue properties are apparent from the experimental data. The 
results clearly showed interspecimen differences influenced by the anamnesis of 
the donors such as aortic diseases or connective tissue disorders, e.g., 
dissected specimens exhibited on average a markedly lower mechanical strength 
than aneurysmatic specimens. The rupture data based on the combination of 
triaxial shear and uniaxial extension testing are unique and build a good basis 
for developing a 3D failure criterion of diseased human thoracic aortic media. 
This is a step forward to more realistic modeling of mechanically induced tissue 
failure i.e. rupture of aneurysms or progression of aortic dissections.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiomech.2016.02.042
PMCID: PMC5435125
PMID: 26970889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


647. Metab Eng. 2016 Jul;36:37-47. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2016.03.001. Epub 2016
Mar  11.

Acetone production with metabolically engineered strains of Acetobacterium 
woodii.

Hoffmeister S(1), Gerdom M(2), Bengelsdorf FR(3), Linder S(3), Flüchter S(3), 
Öztürk H(3), Blümke W(2), May A(4), Fischer RJ(4), Bahl H(4), Dürre P(3).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Mikrobiologie und Biotechnologie, Universität Ulm, 
Albert-Einstein-Allee 11, D-89081 Ulm, Germany. Electronic address: 
Sabrina.Hoffmeister@uni-ulm.de.
(2)Evonik Technology & Infrastructure GmbH, Process Technology & Engineering, 
Bioprocess Technology & Life Cycle Management, Paul-Baumann-Straße 1, D-45772 
Marl, Germany.
(3)Institut für Mikrobiologie und Biotechnologie, Universität Ulm, 
Albert-Einstein-Allee 11, D-89081 Ulm, Germany.
(4)Abteilung Mikrobiologie, Institut für Biowissenschaften, Universität Rostock, 
Albert-Einstein-Str. 3, D-18051 Rostock, Germany.

Expected depletion of oil and fossil resources urges the development of new 
alternative routes for the production of bulk chemicals and fuels beyond 
petroleum resources. In this study, the clostridial acetone pathway was used for 
the formation of acetone in the acetogenic bacterium Acetobacterium woodii. The 
acetone production operon (APO) containing the genes thlA (encoding thiolase A), 
ctfA/ctfB (encoding CoA transferase), and adc (encoding acetoacetate 
decarboxylase) from Clostridium acetobutylicum were cloned under the control of 
the thlA promoter into four vectors having different replicons for 
Gram-positives (pIP404, pBP1, pCB102, and pCD6). Stable replication was observed 
for all constructs. A. woodii [pJIR_actthlA] achieved the maximal acetone 
concentration under autotrophic conditions (15.2±3.4mM). Promoter sequences of 
the genes ackA from A. woodii and pta-ack from C. ljungdahlii were determined by 
primer extension (PEX) and cloned upstream of the APO. The highest acetone 
production in recombinant A. woodii cells was achieved using the promoters PthlA 
and Ppta-ack. Batch fermentations using A. woodii [pMTL84151_actthlA] in a 
bioreactor revealed that acetate concentration had an effect on the acetone 
production, due to the high Km value of the CoA transferase. In order to 
establish consistent acetate concentration within the bioreactor and to increase 
biomass, a continuous fermentation process for A. woodii was developed. Thus, 
acetone productivity of the strain A. woodii [pMTL84151_actthlA] was increased 
from 1.2mgL(-1)h(-1) in bottle fermentation to 26.4mgL(-1)h(-1) in continuous 
gas fermentation.

Copyright © 2016 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2016.03.001
PMID: 26971669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2016 Jun;27(6):831-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jvir.2015.12.019.
 Epub 2016 Mar 10.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Percutaneous Sclerotherapy for Venous 
Malformations.

Ono Y(1), Osuga K(2), Takura T(3), Nakamura M(2), Shibamoto K(4), Yamamoto A(5), 
Fujiwara H(6), Mimura H(7), Tomiyama N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, Osaka University 
Graduate School of Medicine, 2-2 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan. 
Electronic address: y-ono@radiol.med.osaka-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, Osaka University 
Graduate School of Medicine, 2-2 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.
(3)Department of Health Care Economics and Industrial Policy, Osaka University 
Graduate School of Medicine, 2-2 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.
(4)Department of Diagnostic Radiology 2, Kawasaki Hospital, Kawasaki Medical 
School, Okayama, Okayama, Japan.
(5)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Kawasaki Medical School, Kurashiki, 
Okayama, Japan.
(6)Department of Radiology, Okayama University Medical School, Okayama, Okayama, 
Japan.
(7)Department of Radiology, St. Marianna University School of Medicine, 
Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.

PURPOSE: To assess cost-effectiveness of sclerotherapy for venous malformations 
(VMs) to improve patient quality of life (QOL).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This prospective study enrolled 28 patients with 
symptomatic VMs who underwent sclerotherapy. EuroQol-5 Dimension (EQ-5D) and 
Short-Form 36 (SF-36) Health Survey were used to measure health-related QOL. 
Questionnaires were collected before and 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after 
sclerotherapy. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were calculated using EQ-5D 
score as a measure of health utility. Medical costs obtained from the hospital 
accounting system and other costs of staff, drugs, materials, and angiographic 
equipment were calculated for each procedure. Cost-effectiveness was analyzed 
using incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) as the medical cost/gain of 
QALYs.
RESULTS: Median EQ-5D scores improved from 0.768 (range, 0.705-1) to 1 (range, 
0.768-1) after 6 months (P = .023) and 1 (range, 0.768-1) after 12 months (P = 
.063). The gain of QALYs at 12 months was 0.043. The mean medical cost was 
¥281,228 ($2,337). The pain group (baseline bodily pain scale of SF-36 score < 
70) showed greater improvement in median EQ-5D score, from 0.705 (range, 
0.661-0.768) to 0.768 (range, 0.705-1) after 6 months (P = .041) and 0.768 
(range, 0.768-1) after 12 months (P = .049). ICER at 12 months was ¥6,600,483 
($54,840) in the overall group and decreased to ¥3,998,113 ($33,218) in the pain 
group, < ¥6,000,000 ($49,850), threshold for acceptance of a public health 
benefit in Japan, even accounting for 50% increase in costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Sclerotherapy was cost-effective for improving QOL for symptomatic 
VMs, especially for patients with moderate to severe pain.

Copyright © 2016 SIR. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvir.2015.12.019
PMID: 26972615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Exp Gerontol. 2016 Jun 15;79:37-45. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2016.03.002. Epub
2016  Mar 10.

Vascular risk assessment in older adults without a history of cardiovascular 
disease.

Bambrick P(1), Tan WS(2), Mulcahy R(2), Pope GA(2), Cooke J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine for the Elderly, University Hospital Waterford, 
Republic of Ireland; Waterford Cardiovascular Research Group, Republic of 
Ireland. Electronic address: pbambrick@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Medicine for the Elderly, University Hospital Waterford, 
Republic of Ireland.
(3)Department of Medicine for the Elderly, University Hospital Waterford, 
Republic of Ireland; Waterford Cardiovascular Research Group, Republic of 
Ireland.

Modern cardiovascular risk prediction tools, which have their genesis in the 
Framingham Heart Study, have allowed more accurate risk stratification and 
targeting of treatments worldwide over the last seven decades. Better 
cardiovascular risk factor control during this time has led to a reduction in 
cardiovascular mortality and, at least in part, to improved life expectancy. As 
a result, western societies as a whole have seen a steady increase in the 
