10.1016/j.ijrobp.2016.01.020. Epub 2016 Jan 19.

Cost-Effectiveness of Surgery, Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy, and Systemic 
Therapy for Pulmonary Oligometastases.

Lester-Coll NH(1), Rutter CE(2), Bledsoe TJ(2), Goldberg SB(3), Decker RH(2), Yu 
JB(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Therapeutic Radiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, Connecticut. Electronic address: nataniel.lester-coll@yale.edu.
(2)Department of Therapeutic Radiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, Connecticut.
(3)Department of Medicine (Medical Oncology), Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut.

INTRODUCTION: Pulmonary oligometastases have conventionally been managed with 
surgery and/or systemic therapy. However, given concerns about the high cost of 
systemic therapy and improvements in local treatment of metastatic cancer, the 
optimal cost-effective management of these patients is unclear. Therefore, we 
sought to assess the cost-effectiveness of initial management strategies for 
pulmonary oligometastases.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: A cost-effectiveness analysis using a Markov modeling 
approach was used to compare average cumulative costs, quality adjusted life 
years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) among 3 initial 
disease management strategies: video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) wedge 
resection, stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT), and systemic therapy 
among 5 different cohorts of patient disease: (1) melanoma; (2) non-small cell 
lung cancer adenocarcinoma without an EGFR mutation (NSCLC AC); (3) NSCLC with 
an EGFR mutation (NSCLC EGFRm AC); (4) NSCLC squamous cell carcinoma (NSCLC 
SCC); and (5) colon cancer. One-way sensitivity analyses and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses were performed to analyze uncertainty with regard to model 
parameters.
RESULTS: In the base case, SBRT was cost effective for melanoma, with costs/net 
QALYs of $467,787/0.85. In patients with NSCLC, the most cost-effective 
strategies were SBRT for AC ($156,725/0.80), paclitaxel/carboplatin for SCC 
($123,799/0.48), and erlotinib for EGFRm AC ($147,091/1.90). Stereotactic body 
radiation therapy was marginally cost-effective for EGFRm AC compared to 
erlotinib with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $126,303/QALY. For 
colon cancer, VATS wedge resection ($147,730/2.14) was the most cost-effective 
strategy. Variables with the greatest influence in the model were 
erlotinib-associated progression-free survival (EGFRm AC), toxicity (EGFRm AC), 
cost of SBRT (NSCLC SCC), and patient utilities (all histologies).
CONCLUSIONS: Video-assisted thoracic surgery wedge resection or SBRT can be 
cost-effective in select patients with pulmonary oligometastases, depending on 
histology, efficacy, and tolerability of treatment and patient preferences.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2016.01.020
PMID: 27055395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Ann R Coll Surg Engl. 2016 Jul;98(6):409-12. doi: 10.1308/rcsann.2016.0146.
Epub  2016 Apr 8.

What happens when we do not operate? Survival following conservative bowel 
cancer management.

Bethune R(1), Sbaih M(1)(2), Brosnan C(1), Arulampalam T(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Colchester Hospital University NHS Trust , UK.
(2)ICENI Centre for Surgical Education and Research , Colchester , UK.

Introduction While surgery is the cornerstone of bowel cancer treatment, it 
comes with significant risks. Among patients aged over 80 years, 30-day 
mortality is 13%-15%, and additionally 12% will not return home and go on to 
live in supportive care. The question for patients and clinicians is whether 
operative surgery benefits elderly, frail patients. Methods Multidisciplinary 
team outcomes between October 2010 and April 2012 were searched to conduct a 
retrospective analysis of patients with known localised colorectal cancer who 
did not undergo surgery due to being deemed unfit. Results Twenty six patients 
survived for more than a few weeks following surgery, of whom 20% survived for 
at least 36 months. The average life expectancy following diagnosis was 1 year 
and 176 days, with a mean age at diagnosis of 87 years (range 77-93 years). One 
patient survived for 3 years and 240 days after diagnosis. Conclusions Although 
surgeons are naturally focused on surgical outcomes, non-operative outcomes are 
equally as important for patients. Elderly, frail patients benefit less from 
surgery for bowel cancer and have higher risks than younger cohorts, and this 
needs to be carefully discussed when jointly making the decision whether or not 
to operate.

DOI: 10.1308/rcsann.2016.0146
PMCID: PMC5209971
PMID: 27055410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Chest. 2016 Apr;149(4):e115-7. doi: 10.1016/j.chest.2015.09.021.

A Woman in Her 30s Whose Family Becomes Distrustful After an Initial Prognosis 
Proves Inaccurate.

Blumenthal-Barby JS(1), Lazaridis C(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Ethics and Health Policy, Baylor College of Medicine, One 
Baylor Plaza Houston, TX. Electronic address: Jennifer.blumenthal-barby@bcm.edu.
(2)Department of Neurology-Neuro Critical Care, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX.

A woman in her 30s with alcoholic liver disease presented with an intracerebral 
hemorrhage with intraventricular extension, hydrocephalus, and an intracerebral 
hemorrhage score of 3. In the ICU, she was comatose with a flexion withdrawal as 
a best motor response. The ICU team, after 6 days of care, informed the family 
that the prognosis for any recovery of meaningful neurological function was 
dismal and that the family should consider withdrawal of life support. The 
family resisted any consideration of limitation of care, citing religious 
beliefs.

Copyright © 2016 American College of Chest Physicians. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chest.2015.09.021
PMID: 27055715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2016 Jun 1;120(11):1364-73. doi: 
10.1152/japplphysiol.00091.2016. Epub 2016 Apr 7.

Training-specific functional, neural, and hypertrophic adaptations to explosive- 
vs. sustained-contraction strength training.

Balshaw TG(1), Massey GJ(2), Maden-Wilkinson TM(3), Tillin NA(4), Folland JP(2).

Author information:
(1)Arthritis Research UK Centre for Sport, Exercise and Osteoarthritis, 
Loughborough University, Loughborough, United Kingdom; School of Sport, 
Exercise, and Health Sciences, Loughborough University, Loughborough, United 
Kingdom; and t.g.balshaw@lboro.ac.uk.
(2)Arthritis Research UK Centre for Sport, Exercise and Osteoarthritis, 
Loughborough University, Loughborough, United Kingdom; School of Sport, 
Exercise, and Health Sciences, Loughborough University, Loughborough, United 
Kingdom; and.
(3)School of Sport, Exercise, and Health Sciences, Loughborough University, 
Loughborough, United Kingdom; and.
(4)Department of Life Sciences, University of Roehampton, London, United 
Kingdom.

Training specificity is considered important for strength training, although the 
functional and underpinning physiological adaptations to different types of 
training, including brief explosive contractions, are poorly understood. This 
study compared the effects of 12 wk of explosive-contraction (ECT, n = 13) vs. 
sustained-contraction (SCT, n = 16) strength training vs. control (n = 14) on 
the functional, neural, hypertrophic, and intrinsic contractile characteristics 
of healthy young men. Training involved 40 isometric knee extension repetitions 
(3 times/wk): contracting as fast and hard as possible for ∼1 s (ECT) or 
gradually increasing to 75% of maximum voluntary torque (MVT) before holding for 
3 s (SCT). Torque and electromyography during maximum and explosive 
contractions, torque during evoked octet contractions, and total quadriceps 
muscle volume (QUADSVOL) were quantified pre and post training. MVT increased 
more after SCT than ECT [23 vs. 17%; effect size (ES) = 0.69], with similar 
increases in neural drive, but greater QUADSVOL changes after SCT (8.1 vs. 2.6%; 
ES = 0.74). ECT improved explosive torque at all time points (17-34%; 0.54 ≤ ES 
≤ 0.76) because of increased neural drive (17-28%), whereas only late-phase 
explosive torque (150 ms, 12%; ES = 1.48) and corresponding neural drive (18%) 
increased after SCT. Changes in evoked torque indicated slowing of the 
contractile properties of the muscle-tendon unit after both training 
interventions. These results showed training-specific functional changes that 
appeared to be due to distinct neural and hypertrophic adaptations. ECT produced 
a wider range of functional adaptations than SCT, and given the lesser demands 
of ECT, this type of training provides a highly efficient means of increasing 
function.

Copyright © 2016 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00091.2016
PMID: 27055984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Arch Gynecol Obstet. 2016 Jul;294(1):19-27. doi: 10.1007/s00404-016-4069-y.
Epub  2016 Apr 7.

Non-tubal ectopic pregnancy.

Parker VL(1), Srinivas M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Barnsley Hospital NHS Foundation 
Trust, Gawber Road, Barnsley, South Yorkshire, S75 2EP, UK. 
v.parker@sheffield.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Barnsley Hospital NHS Foundation 
Trust, Gawber Road, Barnsley, South Yorkshire, S75 2EP, UK.

PURPOSE: 11 per 1000 pregnancies are ectopic (NICE Guidelines, 2012) with 95 % 
of ectopic pregnancies being tubal in origin, and 80 % of these occurring within 
the ampulla (The Ectopic Pregnancy Trust). 5% therefore are non-tubal. In this 
review we aim to collate literature relevant to non-tubal ectopic pregnancy.
METHODS: Literature regarding cornual, ovarian, abdominal, interstitial, 
cervical and Caesarean scar ectopic pregnancy was reviewed using EMBASE and 
Medline databases.
RESULTS: Non-tubal ectopic pregnancies are often overlooked, diagnosed late and 
are associated with higher maternal morbidity and mortality. Ultrasound remains 
the mainstay of diagnosis in corroboration with clinical features. Management 
may include medical treatment with methotrexate, surgery or expectancy. There is 
also an increasing interest in the use of minimally invasive radiological 
approaches.
CONCLUSIONS: Non-tubal ectopic pregnancy is a rare but potentially 
life-threatening and often misdiagnosed condition. This is particularly 
pertinent for Caesarean scar ectopic pregnancies, the prevalence of which is 
increasing due to the rising proportion of women having Caesarean sections 
(Litwicka and Greco, 2011). Practitioners should be aware of non-tubal 
pregnancies to aid more efficient diagnosis, optimise management and increase 
patient safety.

DOI: 10.1007/s00404-016-4069-y
PMID: 27056054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Tumori. 2016 Jun 2;2016(3):294-300. doi: 10.5301/tj.5000499. Epub 2016 Apr
5.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of treatments for metastatic pancreatic cancer based 
on PRODIGE and MPACT trials.

Zhou J(1), Zhao R(2), Wen F(1), Zhang P(1), Wu Y(3), Tang R(1), Chen H(1), Zhang 
J(1), Li Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Cancer Center, State Key Laboratory of 
Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu - China.
(2)Division of Liver Transplantation, Department of Liver Surgery, West China 
Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu - China.
(3)School of Public Health, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan - USA.

PURPOSE: Fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan, oxaliplatin (FOLFIRINOX) and 
gemcitabine plus nab-paclitaxel (GEM-N) have shown a significant survival 
benefit for the treatment of metastatic pancreatic cancer. The objective of this 
study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of FOLFIRINOX versus GEM-N for 
treating metastatic pancreatic cancer based on the PRODIGE and MPACT trials.
METHODS: A decision model was performed to compare FOLFIRINOX with GEM-N. 
Primary base case data were identified from PRODIGE and MPACT trials. Costs were 
estimated and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was calculated at West 
China Hospital, Sichuan University, China. Survival benefits were reported in 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALY). Finally, sensitive analysis was performed by 
varying potentially modiﬁable parameters in the model.
RESULTS: The base-case analysis showed that FOLFIRINOX cost $37,203.75 and 
yielded a survival of 0.67 QALY, and GEM-N cost $32,080.59 and yielded a 
survival of 0.51 QALY in the entire treatment. Thus, the ICER of FOLFIRINOX 
versus GEM-N was $32,019.75 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: The GEM-N regimen was more cost-effective compared with the 
FOLFIRINOX regimen for the treatment of metastatic pancreatic cancer from a 
Chinese perspective.

DOI: 10.5301/tj.5000499
PMID: 27056335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. BMJ Open. 2016 Apr 7;6(4):e009081. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2015-009081.

Health Auctions: a Valuation Experiment (HAVE) study protocol.

Kularatna S(1), Petrie D(2), Scuffham PA(1), Byrnes J(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Applied Health Economics, School of Medicine, Griffith University, 
Meadowbrook, Queensland, Australia Population and Social Health Research 
Programme, Menzies Health Institute Queensland, Griffith University, 
Meadowbrook, Queensland, Australia.
(2)School of Population and Global Health, The University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Quality-adjusted life years are derived using health state utility 
weights which adjust for the relative value of living in each health state 
compared with living in perfect health. Various techniques are used to estimate 
health state utility weights including time-trade-off and standard gamble. These 
methods have exhibited limitations in terms of complexity, validity and 
reliability. A new composite approach using experimental auctions to value 
health states is introduced in this protocol.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A pilot study will test the feasibility and validity of 
using experimental auctions to value health states in monetary terms. A 
convenient sample (n=150) from a population of university staff and students 
will be invited to participate in 30 auction sets with a group of 5 people in 
each set. The 9 health states auctioned in each auction set will come from the 
commonly used EQ-5D-3L instrument. At most participants purchase 2 health 
states, and the participant who acquires the 2 'best' health states on average 
will keep the amount of money they do not spend in acquiring those health 
states. The value (highest bid and average bid) of each of the 24 health states 
will be compared across auctions to test for reliability across auction groups 
and across auctioneers. A test retest will be conducted for 10% of the sample to 
assess reliability of responses for health states auctions. Feasibility of 
conducting experimental auctions to value health states will also be examined. 
The validity of estimated health states values will be compared with published 
utility estimates from other methods. This pilot study will explore the 
feasibility, reliability and validity in using experimental auction for valuing 
health states.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical clearance was obtained from Griffith 
University ethics committee. The results will be disseminated in peer-reviewed 
journals and major international conferences.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2015-009081
PMCID: PMC4838724
PMID: 27056589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2016 Aug;97(8):1316-22. doi:
10.1016/j.apmr.2016.03.003.  Epub 2016 Apr 4.

Neuromuscular Impairments Contributing to Persistently Poor and Declining 
Lower-Extremity Mobility Among Older Adults: New Findings Informing Geriatric 
Rehabilitation.

Ward RE(1), Beauchamp MK(2), Latham NK(3), Leveille SG(4), Percac-Lima S(5), 
Kurlinski L(6), Ni P(3), Goldstein R(6), Jette AM(3), Bean JF(7).

Author information:
(1)New England Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, Boston Veterans 
Affairs Healthcare System, Boston, MA; Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; 
Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital, Cambridge, MA. Electronic address: 
reward@partners.org.
(2)School of Rehabilitation Science, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, 
Canada.
(3)Health and Disability Research Institute, Boston University School of Public 
Health, Boston, MA.
(4)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; College of Nursing and Health Sciences, 
University of Massachusetts Boston, Boston, MA.
(5)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
MA.
(6)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital, 
Cambridge, MA.
(7)New England Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, Boston Veterans 
Affairs Healthcare System, Boston, MA; Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; 
Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital, Cambridge, MA.

OBJECTIVE: To identify neuromuscular impairments most predictive of unfavorable 
mobility outcomes in late life.
DESIGN: Longitudinal cohort study.
SETTING: Research clinic.
PARTICIPANTS: Community-dwelling primary care patients aged ≥65 years (N=391) 
with self-reported mobility modifications, randomly selected from a research 
registry.
INTERVENTIONS: Not applicable.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Categories of decline in and persistently poor mobility 
across baseline, 1 and 2 years of follow-up in the Lower-Extremity Function 
scales of the Late-Life Function and Disability Instrument. The following 
categories of impairment were assessed as potential predictors of mobility 
change: strength (leg strength), speed of movement (leg velocity, reaction time, 
rapid leg coordination), range of motion (ROM) (knee flexion/knee 
extension/ankle ROM), asymmetry (asymmetry of leg strength and knee 
flexion/extension ROM measures), and trunk stability (trunk extensor endurance, 
kyphosis).
RESULTS: The largest effect sizes were found for baseline weaker leg strength 
(odds ratio [95% confidence interval]: 3.45 [1.72-6.95]), trunk extensor 
endurance (2.98 [1.56-5.70]), and slower leg velocity (2.35 [1.21-4.58]) 
predicting a greater likelihood of persistently poor function over 2 years. 
Baseline weaker leg strength, trunk extensor endurance, and restricted knee 
flexion motion also predicted a greater likelihood of decline in function (1.72 
[1.10-2.70], 1.83 [1.13-2.95], and 2.03 [1.24-3.35], respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Older adults exhibiting poor mobility may be prime candidates for 
rehabilitation focused on improving these impairments. These findings lay the 
groundwork for developing interventions aimed at optimizing rehabilitative care 
and disability prevention, and highlight the importance of both well-recognized 
(leg strength) and novel impairments (leg velocity, trunk extensor muscle 
endurance).

Copyright © 2016 American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apmr.2016.03.003
PMCID: PMC4967009
PMID: 27056644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. ACS Comb Sci. 2016 May 9;18(5):209-19. doi: 10.1021/acscombsci.5b00175. Epub
 2016 Apr 21.

A Wide-Field Fluorescence Microscope Extension for Ultrafast Screening of 
One-Bead One-Compound Libraries Using a Spectral Image Subtraction Approach.

Heusermann W(1), Ludin B(2), Pham NT(3), Auer M(3), Weidemann T(4), 
Hintersteiner M(5).

Author information:
(1)IMCF Biozentrum, Universität Basel , Klingelbergstrasse 50/70, 4056 Basel, 
Switzerland.
(2)Life Imaging Services , Efringerstrasse 79, 4057 Basel, Switzerland.
(3)School of Biological Sciences and School of Biomedical Sciences, University 
of Edinburgh , CH Waddington Building, Max Born Crescent, The King's Buildings, 
Edinburgh, EH9 3BF, United Kingdom.
(4)Max Planck Institute of Biochemistry , Am Klopferspitz 18, 82152 Martinsried, 
Germany.
(5)Bioseutica BV , Corso Elvezia 4, 6900 Lugano, Switzerland.

The increasing involvement of academic institutions and biotech companies in 
drug discovery calls for cost-effective methods to identify new bioactive 
molecules. Affinity-based on-bead screening of combinatorial one-bead 
one-compound libraries combines a split-mix synthesis design with a simple 
protein binding assay operating directly at the bead matrix. However, one 
bottleneck for academic scale on-bead screening is the unavailability of a 
cheap, automated, and robust screening platform that still provides a 
quantitative signal related to the amount of target protein binding to 
individual beads for hit bead ranking. Wide-field fluorescence microscopy has 
long been considered unsuitable due to significant broad spectrum 
autofluorescence of the library beads in conjunction with low detection 
sensitivity. Herein, we demonstrate how such a standard microscope equipped with 
LED-based excitation and a modern CMOS camera can be successfully used for 
selecting hit beads. We show that the autofluorescence issue can be overcome by 
an optical image subtraction approach that yields excellent signal-to-noise 
ratios for the detection of bead-associated target proteins. A polymer capillary 
attached to a semiautomated bead-picking device allows the operator to 
efficiently isolate individual hit beads in less than 20 s. The system can be 
used for ultrafast screening of >200,000 bead-bound compounds in 1.5 h, thereby 
making high-throughput screening accessible to a wider group within the 
scientific community.

DOI: 10.1021/acscombsci.5b00175
PMID: 27057765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Medicine (Baltimore). 2016 Apr;95(14):e3338. doi:
10.1097/MD.0000000000003338.

Local Control by Radiofrequency Thermal Ablation Increased Overall Survival in 
Patients With Refractory Liver Metastases of Colorectal Cancer.

Yang PC(1), Lin BR, Chen YC, Lin YL, Lai HS, Huang KW, Liang JT.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Surgery, National Taiwan University Hospital Hsinchu 
Branch, Hsinchu (P-CY); Department of Surgery (B-RL, H-SL, K-WH, J-TL); 
Department of Medical Imaging (Y-CC); and Department of Oncology, National 
Taiwan University Hospital and College of Medicine, National Taiwan University, 
Taipei, Taiwan, ROC (Y-LL).

Radiofrequency thermal ablation (RFA) is widely used for local solitary liver 
tumor control. However, the benefit of RFA for colorectal cancer with liver 
metastases, which is refractory to chemotherapy, remains unknown.We 
retrospectively enrolled 70 consecutive colorectal adenocarcinoma patients, who 
had synchronous liver metastases, who were refractory to chemotherapy, and whose 
life expectancy was >6 months, into this study to investigate the outcomes of 
RFA and associated prognostic factors. RFA was introduced to all of these 
patients during the enrollment. The time interval from RFA to recurrence of 
liver metastases and overall survival was recorded. Age, sex, carcinoembryonic 
antigen level, primary tumor location, postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy 
regimens, and the size and number of metastatic liver lesions were recorded. Cox 
regression analysis was used to determine the prognostic 
significance.Thirty-nine patients accepted RFA during chemotherapy, whereas 31 
chose to receive chemotherapy alone. Patients with ≤5 and >5 liver metastases 
had median survival durations of 28 and 17 months, respectively (P = 0.018). The 
dominant liver tumor size (<5 vs ≥5 cm) was significantly associated with median 
survival (30 vs 17 months, respectively; P = 0.038), as was the carcinoembryonic 
antigen level (35 vs 16 months for ≤200 vs >200 ng/mL respectively; P = 0.029). 
Besides, radiofrequency thermal ablation plus chemotherapy was associated with a 
better median overall survival than chemotherapy alone (29 vs 12 months, 
respectively; P = 0.002). In multivariate analysis, only radiofrequency thermal 
ablation treatment and number of liver tumors were significant prognostic 
factors for survival. Our result further revealed that patients treated with 
radiofrequency thermal ablation had longer progression-free intervals than those 
treated with chemotherapy alone (18 vs 9 months, respectively; P = 0.001). 
Hence, radiofrequency thermal ablation is a safe and effective adjunct treatment 
to chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000003338
PMCID: PMC4998829
PMID: 27057913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest.


920. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2016 Jul;129:282-90. doi:
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2016.03.039.  Epub 2016 Apr 6.

Multivariate approach to gill pathology in European sea bass after experimental 
exposure to cadmium and terbuthylazine.

Manera M(1), Sayyaf Dezfuli B(2), DePasquale JA(3), Giari L(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Biosciences, Food and Environmental Technologies, University of 
Teramo, Piano d'Accio, I-64100 Teramo, Italy. Electronic address: 
mmanera@unite.it.
(2)Department of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, University of Ferrara, St. 
Borsari 46, I-44121 Ferrara, Italy.
(3)Morphogenyx Inc, PO Box 717, East Northport, NY 11731, USA.

The combined use of guided quantitative expert analysis and of multivariate 
exploratory data analysis is reported as a robust, sensitive and sufficiently 
specific approach to study European sea bass gill secondary lamellar pathology 
after exposure to incremental doses of cadmium and terbuthylazine up to 48h. The 
following elementary pathological findings were considered: "epithelial 
lifting", "epithelial shrinkage", "epithelial swelling", "pillar cells 
coarctation", "pillar cells detachment", "channels fusion", "chloride cells 
swelling", and "chloride cells invasion". The relative spatial extension was 
determined according to exposure class and data were analyzed by means of 
canonical correspondence analysis (CCA), linear discriminant analysis (LDA) and 
canonical variates analysis (CVA). Histologically and ultrastructurally, 
cellular shrinkage/coarctation prevailed in cadmium exposed lamellae, whereas 
cellular swelling and epithelial lifting were predominant in terbuthylazine 
exposed lamellae compared to unexposed fish. Both CCA and CVA permit a good 
graphical data grouping according to exposure classes by means of the convex 
hull minimum polygons. This also reveals exposure dose and time gradients in CCA 
plot. Accordingly, epithelial swelling and epithelial shrinkage were 
comparatively associated to higher exposure time, whereas epithelial shrinkage 
and pillar cells coarctation were comparatively associated to higher exposure 
dose. LDA with only "epithelial shrinkage", "epithelial swelling" and "pillar 
cells coarctation" in the model classified correctly 87.5% of the 
cross-validated cases. A possible pathogenetic relationship between the 
discriminant elementary lesions and the toxic mode of action at the cellular 
level of both cadmium and terbuthylazine is also discussed.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2016.03.039
PMID: 27057996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Schmerz. 2016 Jun;30(3):266-72. doi: 10.1007/s00482-016-0110-0.

[Care of patients with cancer pain in general practices in Germany].

[Article in German]

Engeser P(1), Kuate Fokan E(2), Laux G(2), Szecsenyi J(2), Krug K(2), Leutgeb 
R(2).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Allgemeinmedizin und Versorgungsforschung, Universitätsklinikum 
Heidelberg, Voßstr. 2/37, 69115, Heidelberg, Deutschland. peterengeser@web.de.
(2)Abteilung Allgemeinmedizin und Versorgungsforschung, Universitätsklinikum 
Heidelberg, Voßstr. 2/37, 69115, Heidelberg, Deutschland.

BACKGROUND: In line with the increased life expectancy of people in Germany, the 
probability of falling ill with a malignant disease is continuously increasing. 
About 480,000 people in Germany contract cancer every year. One of the most 
important symptoms of a malignant disease is pain. Between 40 and 100% of 
patients with advanced cancer suffer from pain. The aim of this investigation is 
to show how German general practitioners care for these patients using 
analgetics.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The data were extracted from the CONTENT database 
(CONTinuous morbidity registration Epidemiologic NeTwork) of the Department of 
General Practice and Health Services Research at the University Hospital in 
Heidelberg. This database has data from more than 200,000 patients and more than 
3 million physician/patient contacts. The prescriptions were classified using 
the ATC code.
RESULTS: Patients experiencing pain from cancer received all kinds of analgetic 
drugs. The data comprises 9752 prescriptions for 1362 patients. There were 4975 
(51.1 %) prescriptions for Class 1 analgesics, 929 (9.5 %) for Class 2 
analgetics and 1918 (19.7 %) prescriptions for Class 3 analgetics. Coanalgetics 
were prescribed 1930 (19.7 %) times. 1,167 patients (85.7 %) were treated in the 
correct manner according to the guidelines of the World Health Organisation and 
195 (14.3 %) were not.
CONCLUSIONS: Most GPs in Germany follow the principles of WHO structured pain 
therapy. However, further improvement of the results may be achieved through 
intensive training of colleagues.

DOI: 10.1007/s00482-016-0110-0
PMID: 27059043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. BMJ. 2016 Apr 7;353:i1988. doi: 10.1136/bmj.i1988.

Type 1 diabetes is still linked to lower life expectancy.

Wise J(1).

Author information:
(1)London.

Comment on
    Diabetologia. 2016 Jun;59(6):1177-85.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.i1988
PMID: 27059059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. J Hepatol. 2016 Jun;64(6):1217-23. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2016.01.034. Epub
2016  Apr 5.

Survival of patients with HCV cirrhosis and sustained virologic response is 
similar to the general population.

Bruno S(1), Di Marco V(2), Iavarone M(3), Roffi L(4), Crosignani A(5), Calvaruso 
V(2), Aghemo A(3), Cabibbo G(2), Viganò M(3), Boccaccio V(6), Craxí A(2), 
Colombo M(3), Maisonneuve P(7).

Author information:
(1)Humanitas University and IRCCS Istituto Clinico Humanitas, Rozzano, Italy. 
Electronic address: savino.bruno@hunimed.eu.
(2)Sezione di Gastroenterologia e Epatologia, DIBIMIS, Università degli Studi di 
Palermo, Palermo, Italy.
(3)UO Gastroenterologia ed Epatologia, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale 
Maggiore Policlinico di Milano, Università degli Studi di Milano, Milan, Italy.
(4)Dipartimento di Medicina, A.O. Istituti Clinici di Perfezionamento, Milan, 
Italy.
(5)Dipartimento di Medicina Interna, A.O. San Paolo, Milan, Italy.
(6)Humanitas University and IRCCS Istituto Clinico Humanitas, Rozzano, Italy.
(7)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, European Institute of Oncology, 
Milan, Italy.

Comment in
    J Hepatol. 2016 Jun;64(6):1199-202.
    J Hepatol. 2017 Aug;67(2):427-428.
    J Hepatol. 2017 Aug;67(2):428-429.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Life expectancy of patients with compensated hepatitis C 
virus (HCV) cirrhosis achieving sustained virologic response (SVR) is limited by 
liver events as compared to the general population. Thus, survival benefit of 
SVR remains to be measured.
METHODS: The study includes prospective surveillance data from three cohorts of 
Italian patients with compensated HCV cirrhosis who achieved SVR on an 
interferon-based (IFN) regimen, compared to simultaneously observed non-SVR, 
untreated and decompensated patients. Overall survival was calculated from the 
date of start of IFN to death. The number of deaths expected during the at-risk 
period was determined by applying age- and sex-specific mortality rates recorded 
in Italy for person-years adequate for the enrolment period. The standardized 
mortality ratio (SMR) determined the relative risk of death over that of the age 
and sex matched general population.
RESULTS: Overall, 28/181 patients followed-up for a median period of 9.6years 
(range 1-25years) died. The 10 and 20-year overall survival rates for the whole 
series were 90.9% (95% CI, 84.3-94.8) and 62.9% (95% CI, 45.9-75.9), 
respectively. The number of expected deaths in the corresponding age and sex 
matched general population was 28.1, corresponding to a SMR=1.00 (95% CI, 
0.72-1.35), with an SMR for non-SVR patients of 3.85 (95% CI, 3.43-4.30), for 
untreated of 3.01 (95% CI, 2.64-3.42) and for decompensated of 6.70 (95% CI, 
5.39-8.22).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with compensated HCV cirrhosis achieving SVR by IFN obtain 
a main benefit levelling their survival curve to that of the general population. 
Wider applicability of IFN-free regimens will possibly make this achievement 
more generalizable.

Copyright © 2016 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2016.01.034
PMID: 27059129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Clin Infect Dis. 2016 May 1;62 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):S220-8. doi: 
10.1093/cid/civ1025.

Cost-Effectiveness of Monovalent Rotavirus Vaccination of Infants in Malawi: A 
Postintroduction Analysis Using Individual Patient-Level Costing Data.

Bar-Zeev N(1), Tate JE(2), Pecenka C(3), Chikafa J(4), Mvula H(5), Wachepa R(4), 
Mwansambo C(6), Mhango T(6), Chirwa G(6), Crampin AC(7), Parashar UD(2), 
Costello A(8), Heyderman RS(9), French N(1), Atherly D(3), Cunliffe NA(10); 
VACSURV Consortium.

Collaborators: Beard J, Iturriza-Gomara M, Jere K, King C, Lewycka S, Nakagomi 
O, Phiri T, Verani JR, Whitney CG.

Author information:
(1)Malawi-Liverpool-Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Programme, College of 
Medicine, University of Malawi, Blantyre Institute of Infection and Global 
Health, University of Liverpool, United Kingdom.
(2)Epidemiology Branch, Division of Viral Diseases, National Center for 
Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia.
(3)Program for Appropriate Technologies in Health (PATH), Seattle, Washington.
(4)Malawi-Liverpool-Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Programme, College of 
Medicine, University of Malawi, Blantyre.
(5)Karonga Prevention Study, Chilumba, Karonga.
(6)Ministry of Health, Lilongwe, Malawi.
(7)Karonga Prevention Study, Chilumba, Karonga London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine.
(8)Institute of Global Health.
(9)Malawi-Liverpool-Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Programme, College of 
Medicine, University of Malawi, Blantyre Division of Infection and Immunity, 
University College London Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, United Kingdom.
(10)Institute of Infection and Global Health, University of Liverpool, United 
Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Rotavirus vaccination reduces childhood hospitalization in Africa, 
but cost-effectiveness has not been determined using real-world effectiveness 
and costing data. We sought to determine monovalent rotavirus vaccine 
cost-effectiveness in Malawi, one of Africa's poorest countries and the first 
Gavi-eligible country to report disease reduction following introduction in 
2012.
METHODS: This was a prospective cohort study of children with acute 
gastroenteritis at a rural primary health center, a rural first referral-level 
hospital and an urban regional referral hospital in Malawi. For each participant 
we itemized household costs of illness and direct medical expenditures incurred. 
We also collected Ministry of Health vaccine implementation costs. Using a 
standard tool (TRIVAC), we derived cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Between 1 January 2013 and 21 November 2014, we recruited 530 children 
aged <5 years with gastroenteritis. Costs did not differ by rotavirus test 
result, but were significantly higher for admitted children and those with 
increased severity on Vesikari scale. Adding rotavirus vaccine to the national 
schedule costs Malawi $0.42 per dose in system costs. Vaccine copayment is an 
additional $0.20. Over 20 years, the vaccine program will avert 1 026 000 cases 
of rotavirus gastroenteritis, 78 000 inpatient admissions, 4300 deaths, and 136 
000 disability-adjusted-life-years (DALYs). For this year's birth cohort, it 
will avert 54 000 cases of rotavirus and 281 deaths in children aged <5 years. 
The program will cost $10.5 million and save $8.0 million in averted healthcare 
costs. Societal cost per DALY averted was $10, and the cost per rotavirus case 
averted was $1.
CONCLUSIONS: Gastroenteritis causes substantial economic burden to Malawi. The 
rotavirus vaccine program is highly cost-effective. Together with the 
demonstrated impact of rotavirus vaccine in reducing population hospitalization 
burden, its cost-effectiveness makes a strong argument for widespread 
utilization in other low-income, high-burden settings.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press for the Infectious 
Diseases Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/cid/civ1025
PMCID: PMC4825884
PMID: 27059360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Stat Med. 2016 Aug 30;35(19):3424-48. doi: 10.1002/sim.6947. Epub 2016 Apr
5.

Simple generalized estimating equations (GEEs) and weighted generalized 
estimating equations (WGEEs) in longitudinal studies with dropouts: guidelines 
and implementation in R.

Salazar A(1), Ojeda B(1), Dueñas M(1), Fernández F(2), Failde I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedicine, Biotechnology and Public Health, University of 
Cádiz, Cádiz, Spain.
(2)Department of Statistics and Operational Research, University of Cádiz, 
Cádiz, Spain.

Missing data are a common problem in clinical and epidemiological research, 
especially in longitudinal studies. Despite many methodological advances in 
recent decades, many papers on clinical trials and epidemiological studies do 
not report using principled statistical methods to accommodate missing data or 
use ineffective or inappropriate techniques. Two refined techniques are 
presented here: generalized estimating equations (GEEs) and weighted generalized 
estimating equations (WGEEs). These techniques are an extension of generalized 
linear models to longitudinal or clustered data, where observations are no 
longer independent. They can appropriately handle missing data when the 
missingness is completely at random (GEE and WGEE) or at random (WGEE) and do 
not require the outcome to be normally distributed. Our aim is to describe and 
illustrate with a real example, in a simple and accessible way to researchers, 
these techniques for handling missing data in the context of longitudinal 
studies subject to dropout and show how to implement them in R. We apply them to 
assess the evolution of health-related quality of life in coronary patients in a 
data set subject to dropout. Copyright © 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.6947
PMID: 27059703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken). 2016 Dec;68(12):1803-1811. doi:
10.1002/acr.22903.  Epub 2016 Oct 21.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of First-Line Treatment With Biologic Agents in 
Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis.

Luca NJ(1), Burnett HF(2), Ungar WJ(2), Moretti ME(2), Beukelman T(3), Feldman 
BM(2), Schwartz G(4), Bayoumi AM(4).

Author information:
(1)Alberta Children's Hospital and University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, 
Canada.
(2)The Hospital for Sick Children and University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(3)University of Alabama at Birmingham.
(4)St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: The optimal timing of biologic agent treatment in polyarticular 
juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) is unknown. This study evaluated the costs 
and outcomes of first-line treatment with etanercept (ETN), an anti-tumor 
necrosis factor (anti-TNF) agent, compared with step-wise therapy in JIA.
METHODS: We compared 2 strategies: methotrexate (MTX) plus ETN as first-line 
therapy (ETN-first) and MTX monotherapy followed by ETN (ETN-second), using a 
cohort state-transition model of newly diagnosed JIA patients. The model's time 
horizon was 5 years, and the perspective was that of the Canadian health care 
system. The base case patient was 11 years old, weighed 40 kg, and had 5 or more 
active joints. Direct costs were calculated and discounted at a rate of 3% per 
year. Outcomes were expressed as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Scenario 
analyses varied multiple parameters simultaneously to model more severely and 
more mildly affected patients.
RESULTS: ETN-first, compared to ETN-second, yielded a discounted incremental 
cost of $16,893 (95% confidence interval [95% CI] 9,348-25,310), incremental 
QALY of 0.19 (95% CI 0.08-0.32), and an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$88,815 per QALY gained. The results were sensitive to the cost of ETN, the time 
horizon of the model, and estimates of the efficacy of the first-line therapies. 
The cost per QALY for treating patients with severe JIA was $33,960.
CONCLUSION: First-line therapy of ETN and MTX is relatively expensive compared 
to MTX alone, but may be economically attractive for more severely affected 
patients. More research is needed regarding the efficacy of first-line anti-TNF 
agents.

© 2016, American College of Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1002/acr.22903
PMID: 27059807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. J R Soc Med. 2016 Apr;109(4):141-6. doi: 10.1177/0141076816636369.

Advances in pancreas transplantation.

Dholakia S(1), Oskrochi Y(2), Easton G(2), Papalois V(3).

Author information:
(1)Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, West London Renal and Transplant 
Centre, London W12 0HS, UK sham.dholakia@nhs.net.
(2)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Imperial College, London W6 
8RP, UK.
(3)Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, West London Renal and Transplant 
Centre, London W12 0HS, UK.

The potential to reverse diabetes has to be balanced against the morbidity of 
long-term immunosuppression associated with transplantation. For a patient with 
renal failure, the treatment of choice is often a simultaneous transplant of the 
pancreas and kidney or pancreas after kidney. For a patient with glycaemic 
instability, choices between a solid organ or islet transplant have to be 
weighed against benefits and risks of remaining on insulin. Results of 
simultaneous transplant of the pancreas and kidney transplantation are 
comparable to other solid-organ transplants, and there is evidence of improved 
quality of life and life expectancy. There is some evidence of benefit with 
respect to the progression of secondary diabetic complications in patients with 
functioning transplants for several years.

© The Royal Society of Medicine.

DOI: 10.1177/0141076816636369
PMCID: PMC4827108
PMID: 27059905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Soc Sci Med. 2016 May;157:48-59. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2016.03.042. Epub
2016  Mar 31.

Valuing the Child Health Utility 9D: Using profile case best worst scaling 
methods to develop a new adolescent specific scoring algorithm.

Ratcliffe J(1), Huynh E(2), Chen G(3), Stevens K(4), Swait J(2), Brazier J(4), 
Sawyer M(5), Roberts R(6), Flynn T(7).

Author information:
(1)Flinders Health Economics Group, Flinders University, South Australia, 
Australia. Electronic address: julie.ratcliffe@flinders.edu.au.
(2)Institute for Choice, University of South Australia, South Australia, 
Australia.
(3)Flinders Health Economics Group, Flinders University, South Australia, 
Australia.
(4)Health Economics and Decision Science, ScHARR, University of Sheffield, 
United Kingdom.
(5)Discipline of Paediatrics, University of Adelaide, South Australia, 
Australia.
(6)Department of Psychology, University of Adelaide, Australia.
(7)TF Choices LTD and University of Western Sydney, Sydney, Australia.

In contrast to the recent proliferation of studies incorporating ordinal methods 
to generate health state values from adults, to date relatively few studies have 
utilised ordinal methods to generate health state values from adolescents. This 
paper reports upon a study to apply profile case best worst scaling methods to 
derive a new adolescent specific scoring algorithm for the Child Health Utility 
9D (CHU9D), a generic preference based instrument that has been specifically 
designed for the estimation of quality adjusted life years for the economic 
evaluation of health care treatment and preventive programs targeted at young 
people. A survey was developed for administration in an on-line format in which 
consenting community based Australian adolescents aged 11-17 years (N = 1982) 
indicated the best and worst features of a series of 10 health states derived 
from the CHU9D descriptive system. The data were analyzed using latent class 
conditional logit models to estimate values (part worth utilities) for each 
level of the nine attributes relating to the CHU9D. A marginal utility matrix 
was then estimated to generate an adolescent-specific scoring algorithm on the 
full health = 1 and dead = 0 scale required for the calculation of QALYs. It was 
evident that different decision processes were being used in the best and worst 
choices. Whilst respondents appeared readily able to choose 'best' attribute 
levels for the CHU9D health states, a large amount of random variability and 
indeed different decision rules were evident for the choice of 'worst' attribute 
levels, to the extent that the best and worst data should not be pooled from the 
statistical perspective. The optimal adolescent-specific scoring algorithm was 
therefore derived using data obtained from the best choices only. The study 
provides important insights into the use of profile case best worst scaling 
methods to generate health state values with adolescent populations.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2016.03.042
PMID: 27060541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Sci Total Environ. 2016 Jul 15;559:192-203. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2016.03.149. Epub 2016 Apr 7.

Life cycle environmental impacts of vacuum cleaners and the effects of European 
regulation.

Gallego-Schmid A(1), Mendoza JMF(2), Jeswani HK(2), Azapagic A(2).

Author information:
(1)Sustainable Industrial Systems, School of Chemical Engineering and Analytical 
Science, The University of Manchester, The Mill, Sackville Street, Manchester 
M13 9PL, UK. Electronic address: alejandro.gallegoschmid@manchester.ac.uk.
(2)Sustainable Industrial Systems, School of Chemical Engineering and Analytical 
Science, The University of Manchester, The Mill, Sackville Street, Manchester 
M13 9PL, UK.

Energy efficiency of vacuum cleaners has been declining over the past decades 
while at the same time their number in Europe has been increasing. The European 
Commission has recently adopted an eco-design regulation to improve the 
environmental performance of vacuum cleaners. In addition to the existing 
directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE), the regulation 
could potentially have significant effects on the environmental performance of 
vacuum cleaners. However, the scale of the effects is currently unknown, beyond 
scant information on greenhouse gas emissions. Thus, this paper considers for 
the first time life cycle environmental impacts of vacuum cleaners and the 
effects of the implementation of these regulations at the European level. The 
effects of electricity decarbonisation, product lifetime and end-of-life 
disposal options are also considered. The results suggest that the 
implementation of the eco-design regulation alone will reduce significantly the 
impacts from vacuum cleaners (37%-44%) by 2020 compared with current situation. 
If business as usual continued and the regulation was not implemented, the 
impacts would be 82%-109% higher by 2020 compared to the impacts with the 
implementation of the regulation. Improvements associated with the 
implementation of the WEEE directive will be much smaller (<1% in 2020). 
However, if the WEEE directive did not exist, then the impacts would be 2%-21% 
higher by 2020 relative to the impacts with the implementation of the directive. 
Further improvements in most impacts (6%-20%) could be achieved by decarbonising 
the electricity mix. Therefore, energy efficiency measures must be accompanied 
by appropriate actions to reduce the environmental impacts of electricity 
generation; otherwise, the benefits of improved energy efficiency could be 
limited. Moreover, because of expected lower life expectancy of vacuum cleaners 
and limited availability of some raw materials, the eco-design regulation should 
be broadened to reduce the impacts from raw materials, production and 
end-of-life management.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2016.03.149
PMID: 27060658


930. Int J Cardiol. 2016 Jun 1;212:336-45. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2016.02.137.
Epub  2016 Mar 9.

Cost-effectiveness of strain-targeted cardioprotection for prevention of 
chemotherapy-induced cardiotoxicity.

Nolan MT(1), Plana JC(2), Thavendiranathan P(3), Shaw L(4), Si L(1), Marwick 
TH(5).

Author information:
(1)Menzies Institute for Medical Research, Hobart, Australia.
(2)Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, United States.
(3)Toronto General Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(4)Emory University, Atlanta, GA, United States.
(5)Menzies Institute for Medical Research, Hobart, Australia; Baker-IDI Heart 
and Diabetes Institute, Melbourne, Australia. Electronic address: 
Tom.Marwick@bakeridi.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: Cancer chemotherapy increases the risk of heart failure. This 
cost-effectiveness model compared strain-guided cardioprotection with other 
protective strategies using a health care payer perspective and five-year time 
horizon.
METHODS: Three cardioprotection strategies were assessed: 1) usual care 
(EF-guided cardioprotection, EFGCP) with cardioprotection initiated on diagnosis 
of LVEF-defined cardiotoxicity (EF-CTX), 2) universal cardioprotection (UCP) for 
all such patients, and 3) strain-guided cardioprotection (SGCP - treatment of 
patients with subclinical cardiotoxicity [S-CTX]). A Markov model, informed by 
the published literature on transitional probabilities, costs and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) was developed to assess the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Costs, effects and ICER of each specified 
cardioprotective strategy were assessed over a 5-year range, with sensitivity 
analyses for significant variables.
RESULTS: In the reference case of a 49year old woman with stage IIb breast 
cancer treated with sequential anthracyclines and trastuzumab, strain-guided 
cardioprotection (3.79 QALYS and $4159 cost over 5years) dominated both UCP 
(3.64 QALYs and $5967 cost over 5years) and EFGCP (3.53 QALYs and $7033 cost 
over five years). Model results were dependent on the probabilities of patients 
developing subclinical LV dysfunction, with UCP dominating alternative 
strategies at probabilities ≥51%. Variations in the cost of cardioprotective 
medications and probabilities of cardioprotection side-effects had no effect on 
model conclusions.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients at risk of chemotherapy-related cardiotoxicity, 
strain-guided cardioprotection provides more QALYs at lower cost than standard 
care or uniform cardioprotection.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2016.02.137
PMID: 27060722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Acta Ophthalmol. 2016 Aug;94(5):441-8. doi: 10.1111/aos.12964. Epub 2016 Apr
7.

Aflibercept vs. Ranibizumab: cost-effectiveness of treatment for wet age-related 
macular degeneration in Sweden.

Panchmatia HR(1), Clements KM(1), Hulbert E(2), Eriksson M(3), Wittrup-Jensen 
K(4), Nilsson J(5), Weinstein MC(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Optum, Waltham, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Optum, Eden Prairie, Minnesota, USA.
(3)Bayer AB, Solna, Sweden.
(4)Bayer Pharma AG, Berlin, Germany.
(5)Optum, Stockholm, Sweden.
(6)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(7)Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

PURPOSE: Monthly dosing with ranibizumab (RBZ) is needed to achieve maximal 
visual gains in patients with neovascular ('wet') age-related macular 
degeneration (wAMD). In Sweden, dosing is performed as needed (RBZ PRN), 
