eplerenone, the budget impact is smaller. For the first year, the use of 
eplerenone is cost saving and for 5 years the cost is approximately $Can6 
million.

DOI: 10.1007/s40256-016-0177-0
PMID: 27300508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. A A Case Rep. 2016 Jun 15;6(12):394-6. doi: 10.1213/XAA.0000000000000332.

Subtotal Esophagectomy for Carcinoma in a Patient with Cystic Fibrosis.

Miller R(1), Bourke S, Immanuel A, Metcalfe S.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Respiratory Medicine, Royal Victoria Infirmary, 
Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a multisystem disorder characterized by progressive lung 
disease. Life expectancy is, however, continually improving. Patients with CF 
will therefore present with an increasing number of conditions, some of which 
will require operative management. We present our experience of the management 
of a patient with CF who underwent a subtotal esophagectomy for adenocarcinoma 
of the esophagus. No significant difficulties were encountered in the 
perioperative management of the patient. Despite a decline in his lung function 
and weight postoperatively, he remains clinically stable. Major surgery can be 
successfully undertaken in selected patients with CF.

DOI: 10.1213/XAA.0000000000000332
PMID: 27301055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. W V Med J. 2016 May-Jun;112(3):36-40.

The Aging Mountaineer: PSA screening in older men--of value or should we skip 
this test?

Crigger C, Salkini M, Zaslau S.

The most recent American Urologic Association (AUA) guidelines concerning 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) screening have caused much controversy. One 
particular guideline, in regard to testing elderly men, is the center of intense 
debate. Currently, the AUA recommends against PSA screening in men aged 70 and 
older. West Virginia faces the challenge of a population aging at a rate that 
far exceeds the projected national rate. With such a substantial future 
proportion of older men, and increased life expectancy within this group, 
careful consideration of PSA screening in elderly men is warranted. Given the 
uncertainty surrounding the basis for the AUA guidelines, and the increased 
quality of life and remaining life expectancy for older men, we propose a view 
that supports PSA screening in carefully selected elderly men, and offer 
background to assist clinicians in arriving at a sound clinical decision in 
concert with the patient.

PMID: 27301153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Coll Antropol. 2016 Apr;40(1):9-15.

From Morocco to Italy: How Women's Bodies Reflect their Change of Residence.

Maqoud F, Vacca E, Tommaseo-Ponzetta M.

The body structure and nutritional status of Moroccan women who have immigrated 
to Italy are examined here in relation to changes in their alimentary behaviors 
and life-styles, and compared with those of women living in Morocco, who still 
retain a traditional rural life-style. It is known that the choice to migrate to 
a foreign country may not only lead to conflicting situations, when the people 
involved encounter socio-cultural contexts which are very different from those 
of their original countries, but such choices may also involve severe 
consequences for health and nutritional status, following changes in alimentary 
behaviors and life-styles. Among groups recently migrated to Italy, the 
Moroccan-community is an appropriate reference to highlight these effects. The 
choice to examine women as the focus of this survey allows extension of 
observations of their nutritional behavior to the whole family group. According 
to the bio-indicators examined here, groups of immigrant women are quite 
different from those remaining at home. The former show a considerable increase 
in weight, as assessed by both anthropometric and impedentiometric parameters. 
More than one-third of Moroccan immigrant women are obese, to an extent well 
beyond that of women in Morocco. The cause of this difference is ascribed to 
quantitative and qualitative changes induced after migration. Migrant women tend 
to adopt a mixed diet, which includes both traditional food and that typical of 
the host country. However, there is a considerable increase in the use of 
prepared foods, such as pasta, among farinaceous products, and meat, although 
vegetables and fruit are also consumed. Moroccan women consider both their 
socio-economic status and alimentary behavior as very private matters--an 
attitude which makes it difficult to recruit them for this kind of research. 
Future interventions require their preliminary acceptance and involvement in 
research aims, to demonstrate its great importance in improving the health 
status of present and future immigrants.

PMID: 27301231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Ind Health. 2016;54(3):191-3. doi: 10.2486/indhealth.54-191.

The future of occupational and general health in Japan.

Yanagisawa N(1).

Author information:
(1)All Japan Labour Welfare Foundation.

DOI: 10.2486/indhealth.54-191
PMCID: PMC4939868
PMID: 27301399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Pediatr Rheumatol Online J. 2016 Jun 14;14(1):36. doi: 
10.1186/s12969-016-0099-z.

Methotrexate efficacy, but not its intolerance, is associated with the dose and 
route of administration.

Fráňová J(1)(2), Fingerhutová Š(1), Kobrová K(1), Srp R(1), Němcová D(1), Hoza 
J(1), Uher M(3), Saifridová M(1), Linková L(1), Doležalová P(4).

Author information:
(1)Paediatric Rheumatology Unit, Department of Paediatrics and Adolescent 
Medicine, General University Hospital and 1st Medical Faculty, Charles 
University in Prague, Ke Karlovu 2, Prague, Czech Republic.
(2)Paediatric Rheumatology Unit, Department of Paediatrics, Children´s Medical 
Center, Faculty of Medicine, Masaryk University Brno and Faculty Hospital Brno, 
Černopolní 9, Brno, Czech Republic.
(3)Institute of Biostatistics and Analyses at the Faculty of Medicine and the 
Faculty of Science of the Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic.
(4)Paediatric Rheumatology Unit, Department of Paediatrics and Adolescent 
Medicine, General University Hospital and 1st Medical Faculty, Charles 
University in Prague, Ke Karlovu 2, Prague, Czech Republic. 
dolezalova.pavla@vfn.cz.

BACKGROUND: There is a lack of published evidence on the importance of 
methotrexate (MTX) dose and route of administration on both its efficacy and 
adverse events in children with Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (JIA). We aimed to 
document our clinical practice based on the treat-to-target approach in order to 
support the concept that better therapeutic effect achieved with an optimal dose 
of parenteral MTX is associated with clinically acceptable adverse effects 
comparable to those reported for oral treatment.
METHODS: Study inclusion criteria were indication of new MTX therapy for active 
arthritis in confirmed JIA patients younger than 18 years. Eligible patients 
were evaluated prospectively every 3 months for 1 year using standardized 
instruments for treatment response (American College of Rheumatology Pediatric 
(ACRPedi) response, Juvenile Arthritis Disease Activity Score (JADAS) 71, 
Clinically Inactive Disease (CID)) and adverse events (laboratory monitoring, 
Methotrexate Intolerance Severity Score (MISS)). MTX responders had to achieve 
at least ACRPedi 70 response. MTX intolerance was defined by MISS ≥ 6.
RESULTS: In 45/55 patients (81.8 %) MTX was started as subcutaneous injection. 
The initial median weekly dose was 14.4 mg/m(2) in parenteral and 11.7 mg/m(2) 
in oral administration. MTX therapy was effective in the level of ACRpedi70 and 
CID in 50.9 % and 30.9 % of patients at month 6 and in 70.9 % and 56.4 % after 
12 months of the treatment, respectively. MTX intolerance at 6 and 12 months was 
noted in 25.5 % and 30.6 %, respectively. Management of intolerance included 
change in the dose and/or route of administration, education and councelling. 
Adverse events led to MTX withdrawal in 5 patients (9 %) due to toxicity (n = 3) 
and intolerance (n = 2). We did not find any significant predictive factors for 
either MTX therapeutic response or intolerance.
CONCLUSION: Subcutaneous MTX weekly dose around 15 mg/m(2) is associated not 
only with a high response rate within the first 12 months of treatment, but also 
with a relatively low rate of significant adverse effects that would lead to the 
treatment termination. It allows early recognition of MTX non-responders and 
addition of biologic therapy. Sustainability of therapeutic effect and 
longer-term evolution of adverse events will be addressed by an ongoing 
extension of the study.

DOI: 10.1186/s12969-016-0099-z
PMCID: PMC4908704
PMID: 27301536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. BMJ. 2016 Jun 14;353:i3147. doi: 10.1136/bmj.i3147.

Guidelines for treating risk factors should include tools for shared decision 
making.

Yudkin JS(1), Kavanagh J(2), McCormack JP(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Medicine, University College London, London, UK.
(2)Academic Centre of Medical Education, UCL Medical School, Royal Free Campus, 
London, UK.
(3)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, BC, Canada.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.i3147
PMID: 27302041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Geriatr Gerontol Int. 2017 Jun;17(6):959-966. doi: 10.1111/ggi.12819. Epub
2016  Jun 15.

Multifaceted changes and mortality in older people: A longitudinal study in 
Taiwan.

Tzeng HJ(1)(2), Lee MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Welfare, National Chung Cheng University, Chia-Yi, 
Taiwan.
(2)Department of Preventive Medicine, Kaohsiung Municipal Min-Sheng Hospital, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

AIM: Human life expectancy has increased steadily over the past two centuries. 
In the context of aging, resilience appears to be central to improving quality 
of life and preserving independence in later years. The present study 
investigated multifaceted changes and their association with mortality in older 
people in Taiwan.
METHODS: The present study used older participants aged 60 years or older from 
the first and second waves (1989 and 1993) of the longitudinal Survey of Health 
and Living Status of the Elderly in Taiwan. Multifaceted changes comprised 
chronic conditions, self-rated health, activities of daily living, depression, 
life satisfaction, social engagement and religious activity. "Positive change" 
was defined as stable or improving indicator scores from 1989 to 1993. Logistic 
regressions and Cox proportional hazard models were used to examine associations 
of positive changes with sociodemographic characteristics and with mortality.
RESULTS: The percentages of positive changes in indicators of respondents ranged 
from 47% for activities of daily living to 78% for religious activity. The 
probability of positive changes for chronic conditions, life satisfaction, 
social engagement, and religious activity were lower in men, singles, less 
educated and the oldest respondents than in their counterparts. Lower mortality 
rates were observed in respondents with positive changes of self-rated health 
(HR = 0.72), activities of daily living (HR = 0.67), life satisfaction 
(HR = 0.85) and religious activity (HR = 0.79).
CONCLUSIONS: Various changes were valid predictors of mortality in old age. None 
of the multifaceted aspects of change should be overlooked when designing 
policies for aging well and active aging in later life. Geriatr Gerontol Int 
2017; 17: 959-966.

© 2016 Japan Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/ggi.12819
PMID: 27302419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. J Formos Med Assoc. 2016 Aug;115(8):609-18. doi: 10.1016/j.jfma.2016.04.002.
 Epub 2016 Jun 11.

Cost effectiveness of cancer treatment in Taiwan.

Hung MC(1), Lai WW(2), Chen HH(3), Lee JC(2), Lin YJ(2), Hsiao JR(4), Cheng 
YM(5), Shan YS(2), Su WC(6), Wang JD(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, National Cheng Kung University College of 
Medicine, Tainan, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Surgery, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, College of 
Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, 
College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Otolaryngology, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, 
College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, National Cheng Kung University 
Hospital, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, 
College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(7)Department of Public Health, National Cheng Kung University College of 
Medicine, Tainan, Taiwan; Department of Internal Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University Hospital, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, 
Tainan, Taiwan; Department Occupational and Environmental Medicine, National 
Cheng Kung University Hospital, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan, Taiwan. Electronic address: jdwang121@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: This study aims to examine the cost effectiveness of 
treating major cancers compared with other major illnesses in Taiwan.
METHODS: We collected data on 395,330 patients with cancer, 125,277 patients 
with end-stage renal disease, and 50,481 patients under prolonged mechanical 
ventilation during 1998-2007. They were followed for 10-13 years to estimate 
lifetime survival functions using a semiparametric method. EuroQol 
five-dimension was used to measure the quality of life for 6189 cancer patients 
and 1401 patients with other illnesses. The mean utility values and healthcare 
costs reimbursed by the National Health Insurance were multiplied with the 
corresponding survival probabilities to estimate quality-adjusted life 
expectancies and lifetime costs, respectively. Data of 22,344 cancer patients 
under hospice care (considered as a comparison group) were used to conduct a 
cost-effectiveness analysis. Sensitivity analysis was conducted by assuming 
patients without treatment survived for 2 years with a quality of life value of 
0.5.
RESULTS: The costs of care for patients under prolonged mechanical ventilation 
and those with end-stage renal disease were US$41,780-53,708 per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) and US$18,222-18,465 per QALY, respectively, 
which are equivalent to 2.17-2.79 gross domestic product (GDP) per capita per 
QALY and 1.18-1.25 GDP per capita per QALY. The costs of care for the nine 
different cancers were less than 1 GDP per capita per QALY, with those of lung, 
esophagus, and liver cancers being the highest. Sensitivity analysis showed the 
same conclusion. Lifetime risks of six out of nine cancer sites show an 
increased trend.
CONCLUSION: Cancer care in Taiwan seemed cost effective compared with that of 
other illnesses, but prevention is necessary to make the National Health 
Insurance more sustainable.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfma.2016.04.002
PMID: 27302557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. mSphere. 2015 Dec 16;1(1):e00038-15. doi: 10.1128/mSphere.00038-15.
eCollection  2016 Jan-Feb.

The Dysferlin Domain-Only Protein, Spo73, Is Required for Prospore Membrane 
Extension in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Okumura Y(1), Nakamura TS(1), Tanaka T(1), Inoue I(1), Suda Y(2), Takahashi 
T(3), Nakanishi H(4), Nakamura S(5), Gao XD(4), Tachikawa H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Biological Chemistry, Graduate School of Agricultural 
and Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Graduate School of Comprehensive Human 
Sciences and Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, University of Tsukuba, 
Tsukuba, Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Glycobiology and Glycotechnology, Department of Applied 
Biochemistry, School of Engineering, Tokai University, Hiratsuka City, Kanagawa, 
Japan.
(4)Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, China.
(5)Department of Biotechnology, Graduate School of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

Sporulation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a developmental process in which an 
ascus containing four haploid spores forms from a diploid cell. During this 
process, newly formed membrane structures called prospore membranes extend along 
the nuclear envelope and engulf and package daughter nuclei along with cytosol 
and organelles to form precursors of spores. Proteins involved in prospore 
membrane extension, Vps13 and Spo71, have recently been reported; however, the 
overall mechanism of membrane extension remains unclear. Here, we identified 
Spo73 as an additional factor involved in prospore membrane extension. Analysis 
of a spo73∆ mutant revealed that it shows defects similar to those of a spo71∆ 
mutant during prospore membrane formation. Spo73 localizes to the prospore 
membrane, and this localization is independent of Spo71 and Vps13. In contrast, 
a Spo73 protein carrying mutations in a surface basic patch mislocalizes to the 
cytoplasm and overexpression of Spo71 can partially rescue localization to the 
prospore membrane. Similar to spo71∆ mutants, spo73∆ mutants display genetic 
interactions with the mutations in the SMA2 and SPO1 genes involved in prospore 
membrane bending. Further, our bioinformatic analysis revealed that Spo73 is a 
dysferlin domain-only protein. Thus, these results suggest that a dysferlin 
domain-only protein, Spo73, functions with a dual pleckstrin homology domain 
protein, Spo71, in prospore membrane extension. Analysis of Spo73 will provide 
insights into the conserved function of dysferlin domains, which is related to 
dysferlinopathy. IMPORTANCE Prospore membrane formation consists of de novo 
double-membrane formation, which occurs during the developmental process of 
sporulation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Membranes are formed into their proper 
size and shape, and thus, prospore membrane formation has been studied as a 
general model of membrane formation. We identified SPO73, previously shown to be 
required for spore wall formation, as an additional gene involved in prospore 
membrane extension. Genetic and cell biological analyses suggested that Spo73 
functions on the prospore membrane with other factors in prospore membrane 
extension, counteracting the bending force of the prospore membrane. Spo73 is 
the first dysferlin domain-only protein ever analyzed. The dysferlin domain is 
conserved from yeast to mammals and is found in dysferlin proteins, which are 
involved in dysferlinopathy, although the precise function of the domain is 
unknown. Continued analysis of Spo73 will contribute to our understanding of the 
function of dysferlin domains and dysferlinopathy.

DOI: 10.1128/mSphere.00038-15
PMCID: PMC4863634
PMID: 27303688


586. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2016 Aug;64(8):1610-5. doi: 10.1111/jgs.14202. Epub 2016
Jun  15.

Skin Cancer in U.S. Elderly Adults: Does Life Expectancy Play a Role in 
Treatment Decisions?

Linos E(1), Chren MM(1), Stijacic Cenzer I(2)(3), Covinsky KE(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of California at San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California.
(2)Division of Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, University of California at 
San Francisco, San Francisco, California.
(3)San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San Francisco, California.

OBJECTIVES: To examine whether life expectancy influences treatment pattern of 
nonmelanoma skin cancer, or keratinocyte carcinoma (KC), the most common 
malignancy and the fifth most costly cancer to Medicare.
DESIGN: Nationally representative cross-sectional study.
SETTING: Nationally representative Health and Retirement Study linked to 
Medicare claims.
PARTICIPANTS: Treatments (N = 9,653) from individuals aged 65 and older treated 
for basal or squamous cell carcinoma between 1992 and 2012 (N = 2,702) were 
included.
MEASUREMENTS: Limited life expectancy defined according to aged 85 and older, 
medical comorbidities, Charlson Comorbidity Index score of 3 or greater, 
difficulty in at least one activity of daily living (ADL), and a Lee index of 13 
or greater. Treatment type (Mohs micrographic surgery (MMS) (most intensive, 
highest cost), excision, or electrodesiccation and curettage (ED&C) (least 
intensive, lowest cost)), according to procedure code.
RESULTS: Most KCs (61%) were treated surgically. Rates of MMS (19%), excision 
(42%), and ED&C (39%) were no different in participants with limited life 
expectancy and those with normal life expectancy. For example, 19% of 
participants with difficulty or dependence in ADLs, 20% of those with a Charlson 
comorbidity score greater than 3, and 15% of those in their last year of life 
underwent MMS; participants who died within 1 year of diagnosis were treated in 
the same way as those who lived longer.
CONCLUSION: A one-size-fits-all approach in which advanced age, health status, 
functional status, and prognosis are not associated with intensiveness of 
treatment appears to guide treatment for KC, a generally nonfatal condition. 
Although intensive treatment of skin cancer when it causes symptoms may be 
indicated regardless of life expectancy, persons with limited life expectancy 
should be given choices to ensure that the treatment matches their goals and 
preferences.

© 2016 The Authors. The Journal of the American Geriatrics Society published by 
Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of The American Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.14202
PMCID: PMC5459407
PMID: 27303932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Ear Nose Throat J. 2016 Jun;95(6):224-9.

Why do geriatric patients visit otorhinolaryngology?

Özler GS(1), Yengil E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Mustafa Kemal University, Hatay, Turkey. 
soylugul@yahoo.com.

The number and proportion of people more than 65 years old in the population are 
increasing with the rise in life expectancy. This study was designed to 
investigate the otolarygologic needs and visits of geriatric patients. We 
conducted a retrospective study that included all patients ≥65 years of age who 
visited the otolaryngology department between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. during 1 year. 
Age, gender, main complaint, and clinical diagnosis were noted on a chart and 
analyzed. In 2012, a total of 19,875 patients attended the otolaryngology 
department between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., of whom 418 (2.1%) were aged ≥65 years. 
The most common complaints were ear and hearing disorders (24.2%), 
epistaxis(15.3%), balance disorders (15.1%), pharyngotonsillar pathologies 
(14.8%), and head and facial trauma (9.6%). This study shows that the changing 
patient population will change the type and frequencies of pathologies seen in 
general otolaryngology practices. Geriatric patients need a targeted approach to 
their diseases because they have special issues unique to their population.

PMID: 27304440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Cell Metab. 2016 Jun 14;23(6):949-950. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2016.06.002.

Dynamics of an Aging Genome.

Telenti A(1), Perkins BA(2), Venter JC(3).

Author information:
(1)Human Longevity Inc., San Diego, CA 92121, USA; J. Craig Venter Institute, La 
Jolla, CA 92037, USA. Electronic address: atelenti@humanlongevity.com.
(2)Human Longevity Inc., San Diego, CA 92121, USA. Electronic address: 
bperkins@humanlongevity.com.
(3)Human Longevity Inc., San Diego, CA 92121, USA; J. Craig Venter Institute, La 
Jolla, CA 92037, USA. Electronic address: jcventer@jcvi.org.

The genetic mechanisms mediating longevity and maximum lifespan of the human 
species are likely different than those explaining differences in life 
expectancy and healthspan across individuals. Both of these perspectives are 
important and can be separated and explored using genomic data.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2016.06.002
PMID: 27304490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Cell Metab. 2016 Jun 14;23(6):1093-1112. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2016.05.027.

Effects of Sex, Strain, and Energy Intake on Hallmarks of Aging in Mice.

Mitchell SJ(1), Madrigal-Matute J(2), Scheibye-Knudsen M(3), Fang E(4), Aon 
M(5), González-Reyes JA(6), Cortassa S(5), Kaushik S(2), Gonzalez-Freire M(1), 
Patel B(2), Wahl D(1), Ali A(1), Calvo-Rubio M(6), Burón MI(6), Guiterrez V(1), 
Ward TM(1), Palacios HH(1), Cai H(7), Frederick DW(8), Hine C(9), Broeskamp 
F(10), Habering L(10), Dawson J(11), Beasley TM(11), Wan J(12), Ikeno Y(13), 
Hubbard G(13), Becker KG(14), Zhang Y(14), Bohr VA(4), Longo DL(14), Navas 
P(15), Ferrucci L(1), Sinclair DA(16), Cohen P(12), Egan JM(7), Mitchell JR(9), 
Baur JA(8), Allison DB(11), Anson RM(1), Villalba JM(6), Madeo F(10), Cuervo 
AM(2), Pearson KJ(17), Ingram DK(18), Bernier M(1), de Cabo R(19).

Author information:
(1)Translational Gerontology Branch, Intramural Research Program, National 
Institute on Aging, NIH, 251 Bayview Boulevard, Suite 100, Baltimore, MD 21224, 
USA.
(2)Department of Developmental and Molecular Biology, Institute for Aging 
Studies, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA.
(3)Translational Gerontology Branch, Intramural Research Program, National 
Institute on Aging, NIH, 251 Bayview Boulevard, Suite 100, Baltimore, MD 21224, 
USA; Laboratory of Molecular Gerontology, Intramural Research Program, National 
Institute on Aging, NIH, 251 Bayview Boulevard, Suite 100, Baltimore, MD 21224, 
USA; Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, Center for Healthy Aging, 
University of Copenhagen, 2200 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Laboratory of Molecular Gerontology, Intramural Research Program, National 
Institute on Aging, NIH, 251 Bayview Boulevard, Suite 100, Baltimore, MD 21224, 
USA.
(5)Laboratory of Cardiovascular Science, Intramural Research Program, National 
Institute on Aging, NIH, 251 Bayview Boulevard, Suite 100, Baltimore, MD 21224, 
USA.
(6)Department of Cell Biology, Physiology and Immunology, University of Córdoba, 
Agrifood Campus of International Excellence, ceiA3, 14071 Córdoba, Spain.
(7)Laboratory of Clinical Investigation, Intramural Research Program, National 
Institute on Aging, NIH, 251 Bayview Boulevard, Suite 100, Baltimore, MD 21224, 
USA.
(8)Department of Physiology, Institute for Diabetes, Obesity, and Metabolism, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(9)Department of Genetics and Complex Diseases, Harvard University, Boston, MA 
02115, USA.
(10)Institute of Molecular Biosciences, NAWI Graz, University of Graz, and 
BioTechMed Graz, 8010 Graz, Austria.
(11)Department of Biostatistics, University of Alabama, Birmingham, AL 35294, 
USA; GRECC, Birmingham/Atlanta Veterans Administration Hospital, Birmingham, AL 
35294, USA.
(12)Leonard Davis School of Gerontology, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, CA 90089, USA.
(13)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas 
Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX 78245-3207, USA.
(14)Laboratory of Genetics, Intramural Research Program, National Institute on 
Aging, NIH, 251 Bayview Boulevard, Suite 100, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.
(15)Centro Andaluz de Biologia del Desarrollo, and CIBERER, Instituto de Salud 
Carlos III, Universidad Pablo de Olavide-CSIC, 41013 Sevilla, Spain.
(16)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(17)Translational Gerontology Branch, Intramural Research Program, National 
Institute on Aging, NIH, 251 Bayview Boulevard, Suite 100, Baltimore, MD 21224, 
USA; Graduate Center for Nutritional Sciences, University of Kentucky, C.T. 
Wethington Building, Room 591, 900 South Limestone, Lexington, KY 40536, USA.
(18)Pennington Biomedical Research Center, Baton Rouge, LA 70809, USA.
(19)Translational Gerontology Branch, Intramural Research Program, National 
Institute on Aging, NIH, 251 Bayview Boulevard, Suite 100, Baltimore, MD 21224, 
USA. Electronic address: decabora@mail.nih.gov.

Calorie restriction (CR) is the most robust non-genetic intervention to delay 
aging. However, there are a number of emerging experimental variables that alter 
CR responses. We investigated the role of sex, strain, and level of CR on health 
and survival in mice. CR did not always correlate with lifespan extension, 
although it consistently improved health across strains and sexes. 
Transcriptional and metabolomics changes driven by CR in liver indicated 
anaplerotic filling of the Krebs cycle together with fatty acid fueling of 
mitochondria. CR prevented age-associated decline in the liver proteostasis 
network while increasing mitochondrial number, preserving mitochondrial 
ultrastructure and function with age. Abrogation of mitochondrial function 
negated life-prolonging effects of CR in yeast and worms. Our data illustrate 
the complexity of CR in the context of aging, with a clear separation of 
outcomes related to health and survival, highlighting complexities of 
translation of CR into human interventions.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2016.05.027
PMCID: PMC4911707
PMID: 27304509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Ginekol Pol. 2016;87(5):342-6. doi: 10.5603/GP.2016.0012.

Prevalence of common comorbidities among urogynaecological patients.

Rechberger T(1), Nowakowski Ł, Rechberger E, Ziętek A, Winkler I, Miotła P.

Author information:
(1)2nd Department of Gynaecology Medical University of Lublin, Poland. 
rechbergt@yahoo.com.

OBJECTIVES: Due to prolonged life expectancy, regardless of the fact that 
elderly women are more likely to suffer from comorbidities, urogynaecologists 
worldwide should expect a growing demand for counseling and effective treatment 
for patients with pelvic floor defects. The aim of the study was to investigate 
the incidence of popular comorbidities among urogynaecological patients.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The retrospective analysis included clinical data of 4,065 
consecutive female patients who under-went surgical treatment in the 2nd 
Department of Gynaecology at the Medical University of Lublin due to 
urogynaecological disorders between January 2005 and December 2014. Patients 
were divided into two groups (< 65 years and ≥ 65 years). The vast majority of 
patients affected by stress urinary incontinence were treated with mid-urethral 
slings. Most of patients affected by pelvic organ prolapse underwent 
reconstructive vaginal surgery with reinforcement using anterior and/or 
pos-terior meshes. Statistical analysis was performed using STATISTICA 10.0 PL 
(unpaired Student t-test, U Mann Whitney, χ2 test).
RESULTS: In both study groups, overweight and obesity were the most common 
disorders affecting urogynaecological patients (72.6% overall). Furthermore, the 
elderly patients suffered more often from the most common comorbidities, such as 
hypertension (p < 0.01), coronary artery disease (p < 0.001) and diabetes 
mellitus (p < 0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: Common comorbidities such as overweight and obesity, followed by 
hypertension and coronary heart diseases, are usual among urogynaecological 
patients. Changes in lifestyle leading to a decrease in obesity should be 
considered as an important line treatment when counselling urogynaecological 
patients.

DOI: 10.5603/GP.2016.0012
PMID: 27304649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. PLoS One. 2016 Jun 15;11(6):e0156393. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0156393. 
eCollection 2016.

Long-Term Effectiveness and Cost-Effectiveness of Metformin Combined with 
Liraglutide or Exenatide for Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Based on the CORE Diabetes 
Model Study.

Zhang X(1), Liu S(2), Li Y(3), Wang Y(3), Tian M(3), Liu G(2).

Author information:
(1)CT Department, the Third Hospital of Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, 
China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, the Third Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang, China.
(3)Second Department of Endocrinology, the Third Hospital of Hebei Medical 
University, Shijiazhuang, China.

BACKGROUND: Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is associated with β cell 
impairment. Agonists of the glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor (such as 
liraglutide and exenatide) can increase the number of pancreatic β cells and 
improve cell function. These drugs contribute to the long-term control of T2DM.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of metformin combined with 
liraglutide or exenatide in Chinese patient with T2DM.
METHODS: Patients with T2DM from the Third Hospital of Hebei Medical University 
were treated with oral metformin combined with liraglutide (0.6 mg/day, could be 
increased by 0.6 mg weekly until 1.2 or 1.8 mg) or exenatide (5 μg bid for four 
weeks, increased to 10 μg bid). The computer simulation model CORE was used to 
calculate the 30-year expected life expectancy, quality-adjusted life years 
(QALY), direct costs, HbA1c levels, body mass index (BMI), and the incidence of 
cardiovascular, renal, and ocular complications of T2DM. Patients were followed 
up for 52 weeks. Medication costs were calculated according to retail prices in 
China. A 3% annual discount was adopted in this study.
RESULTS: The 30-year simulation showed that the total direct medical costs were 
lower using liraglutide compared to exenatide by 2130 RMB/QALY yearly, while the 
expected life expectancy and QALY were increased by 0.471 years and 0.388, 
respectively, using liraglutide with an incremental cost-effectiveness of 
-11,550 RMB/QALYs.
CONCLUSION: Liraglutide 1.2 mg/day was superior to exenatide 10 μg bid with 
respect to cost-effectiveness in Chinese patients with T2DM.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0156393
PMCID: PMC4909290
PMID: 27304904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


592. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2016 Aug;207(2):344-53. doi: 10.2214/AJR.15.15823. Epub
 2016 Jun 15.

Tumor Anatomy Scoring and Renal Function for Nephron-Sparing Treatment Selection 
in Patients With Small Renal Masses: A Microsimulation-Based Decision Analysis.

Kang SK(1)(2), Huang WC(3), Skolnik EY(4), Gervais DA(5), Braithwaite RS(2)(6), 
Pandharipande PV(5)(7).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Radiology, NYU School of Medicine, 550 First Ave, New York, 
NY 10016.
(2)2 Department of Population Health, NYU School of Medicine, New York, NY.
(3)3 Department of Urology, NYU School of Medicine, New York, NY.
(4)4 Department of Medicine, Division of Nephrology, NYU School of Medicine, New 
York, NY.
(5)5 Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA.
(6)6 Department of Medicine, NYU Medical Center, New York, NY.
(7)7 Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, MA.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this article is to compare the effectiveness of a 
treatment algorithm for small renal tumors incorporating the nephrometry score, 
a renal tumor anatomy scoring system developed by urologists, with the current 
standard of uniformly recommended partial nephrectomy in patients with 
mild-to-moderate chronic kidney disease (CKD).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We developed a state-transition microsimulation model to 
project life expectancy (LE) in hypothetic patients with baseline mild or 
moderate CKD undergoing treatment of small renal masses. Our model incorporated 
the nephrometry score, which is predictive of postsurgical renal function loss. 
The two tested strategies were uniform treatment with partial nephrectomy and 
selective treatment based on nephrometry score and CKD stage, including 
percutaneous ablation for CKD stages 2 or 3a and intermediate-to-high 
nephrometry score or stage 3b CKD and any nephrometry score; otherwise, partial 
nephrectomy was assumed for other CKD stages and nephrometry scores. The model 
accounted for benign and malignant lesions, renal function decline, recurrence, 
and metastatic disease rates specific to each treatment, mortality by CKD stage, 
and comorbidities. Sensitivity analysis tested the stability of results when 
varying key parameters.
RESULTS: Selective treatment with partial nephrectomy resulted in an average LE 
benefit of 0.48 year (95% interpercentile range, 0.42-0.54 year) in 65-year-old 
men and 0.37 year (95% interpercentile range, 0.30-0.43 year) in 65-year-old 
women relative to nondiscriminatory surgery, due to worsening CKD and 
cardiovascular mortality associated with partial nephrectomy. Model results were 
most sensitive to the rate of renal function decline and CKD-related mortality.
CONCLUSION: Nephron-sparing treatment selection for small renal masses based on 
nephrometry score may improve LE in patients with mild or moderate CKD.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.15.15823
PMID: 27305103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. JAMA. 2016 Jun 21;315(23):2595-609. doi: 10.1001/jama.2016.6828.

Estimation of Benefits, Burden, and Harms of Colorectal Cancer Screening 
Strategies: Modeling Study for the US Preventive Services Task Force.

Knudsen AB(1), Zauber AG(2), Rutter CM(3), Naber SK(4), Doria-Rose VP(5), 
Pabiniak C(6), Johanson C(7), Fischer SE(2), Lansdorp-Vogelaar I(4), Kuntz 
KM(8).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Technology Assessment, Department of Radiology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, New York.
(3)RAND Corporation, Santa Monica, California.
(4)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(5)Division of Cancer Control and Population Sciences, National Cancer 
Institute, Rockville, Maryland.
(6)Group Health Research Institute, Seattle, Washington.
(7)Institute for Technology Assessment, Department of Radiology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts8Currently with Optum, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(8)Department of Health Policy and Management, School of Public Health, 
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.

Comment in
    Evid Based Med. 2017 Apr;22(2):59.
    Transl Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Mar 16;2:17.

IMPORTANCE: The US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) is updating its 2008 
colorectal cancer (CRC) screening recommendations.
OBJECTIVE: To inform the USPSTF by modeling the benefits, burden, and harms of 
CRC screening strategies; estimating the optimal ages to begin and end 
screening; and identifying a set of model-recommendable strategies that provide 
similar life-years gained (LYG) and a comparable balance between LYG and 
screening burden.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Comparative modeling with 3 microsimulation 
models of a hypothetical cohort of previously unscreened US 40-year-olds with no 
prior CRC diagnosis.
EXPOSURES: Screening with sensitive guaiac-based fecal occult blood testing, 
fecal immunochemical testing (FIT), multitarget stool DNA testing, flexible 
sigmoidoscopy with or without stool testing, computed tomographic colonography 
(CTC), or colonoscopy starting at age 45, 50, or 55 years and ending at age 75, 
80, or 85 years. Screening intervals varied by modality. Full adherence for all 
strategies was assumed.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Life-years gained compared with no screening 
(benefit), lifetime number of colonoscopies required (burden), lifetime number 
of colonoscopy complications (harms), and ratios of incremental burden and 
benefit (efficiency ratios) per 1000 40-year-olds.
RESULTS: The screening strategies provided LYG in the range of 152 to 313 per 
1000 40-year-olds. Lifetime colonoscopy burden per 1000 persons ranged from 
fewer than 900 (FIT every 3 years from ages 55-75 years) to more than 7500 
(colonoscopy screening every 5 years from ages 45-85 years). Harm from screening 
was at most 23 complications per 1000 persons screened. Strategies with 
screening beginning at age 50 years generally provided more LYG as well as more 
additional LYG per additional colonoscopy than strategies with screening 
beginning at age 55 years. There were limited empirical data to support a start 
age of 45 years. For persons adequately screened up to age 75 years, additional 
screening yielded small increases in LYG relative to the increase in colonoscopy 
burden. With screening from ages 50 to 75 years, 4 strategies yielded a 
comparable balance of screening burden and similar LYG (median LYG per 1000 
across the models): colonoscopy every 10 years (270 LYG); sigmoidoscopy every 10 
years with annual FIT (256 LYG); CTC every 5 years (248 LYG); and annual FIT 
(244 LYG).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this microsimulation modeling study of a 
previously unscreened population undergoing CRC screening that assumed 100% 
adherence, the strategies of colonoscopy every 10 years, annual FIT, 
sigmoidoscopy every 10 years with annual FIT, and CTC every 5 years performed 
from ages 50 through 75 years provided similar LYG and a comparable balance of 
benefit and screening burden.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2016.6828
PMCID: PMC5493310
PMID: 27305518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: All authors 
have completed and submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure of Potential 
Conflicts of Interest and none were reported.


594. Chronobiol Int. 2016;33(8):1009-17. doi: 10.1080/07420528.2016.1192187. Epub
 2016 Jun 15.

Differences in circadian phase and weekday/weekend sleep patterns in a sample of 
middle-aged morning types and evening types.

Paine SJ(1), Gander PH(1).

Author information:
(1)a Sleep/Wake Research Centre, College of Health , Massey University , 
Wellington , New Zealand.

Factors contributing to sleep timing and sleep restriction in daily life include 
chronotype and less flexibility in times available for sleep on scheduled days 
versus free days. There is some evidence that these two factors interact, with 
morning types and evening types reporting similar sleep need, but evening types 
being more likely to accumulate a sleep debt during the week and to have greater 
sleep extension on weekend nights. The aim of the present study was to evaluate 
the independent contributions of circadian phase and weekend-to-weekday 
variability to sleep timing in daily life. The study included 14 morning types 
and 14 evening types recruited from a community-based sample of New Zealand 
adults (mean age 41.1 ± 4.7 years). On days 1-15, the participants followed 
their usual routines in their own homes and daily sleep start, midpoint and end 
times were determined by actigraphy and sleep diaries. Days 16-17 involved a 17 
h modified constant routine protocol in the laboratory (17:00 to 10:00, <20 lux) 
with half-hourly saliva samples assayed for melatonin. Mixed model ANCOVAs for 
repeated measures were used to investigate the independent relationships between 
sleep start and end times (separate models) and age (30-39 years versus 40-49 
years), circadian phase [time of the dim light melatonin onset (DLMO)] and 
weekday/weekend schedules (Sunday-Thursday nights versus Friday-Saturday 
nights). As expected on weekdays, evening types had later sleep start times 
(mean = 23:47 versus 22:37, p < .0001) and end times (mean = 07:14 versus 05:56, 
p < .0001) than morning types. Similarly on weekend days, evening types had 
later sleep start times (mean = 00:14 versus 23:07, p = .0032) and end times 
(mean = 08:56 versus 07:04, p < .0001) than morning types. Evening types also 
had later DLMO (22:06 versus 20:46, p = .0002) than morning types (mean 
difference = 80.4 min, SE = 18.6 min). The ANCOVA models found that later sleep 
start times were associated with later DLMO (p = .0172) and weekend-to-weekday 
sleep timing variability (p < .0001), after controlling for age, while later 
sleep end times were associated with later DLMO (p = .0038), younger age (p = 
.0190) and weekend days (p < .0001). Sleep end times showed stronger association 
with DLMO (for every 30 min delay in DLMO, estimated mean sleep end time 
occurred 14.0 min later versus 10.19 min later for sleep start times). Sleep end 
times also showed greater delays on weekends versus weekdays (estimated mean 
delay for sleep end time = 84 min, for sleep start time = 28 min). Comparing 
morning types and evening types, the estimated contributions of the DLMO to the 
mean observed differences in sleep timing were on weekdays, 39% for sleep start 
times and 49% for sleep end times; and on weekends, 41% for sleep start times 
and 34% of sleep end times. We conclude that differences in sleep timing between 
morning types and evening types were much greater than would be predicted on the 
basis of the independent contribution of the difference in DLMO on both weekdays 
and weekend days. The timing of sleep in daily life involves complex 
interactions between physiological and psychosocial factors, which may be 
moderated by age in adults aged 30-49 years.

DOI: 10.1080/07420528.2016.1192187
PMID: 27305623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2017 Feb;42(3):E169-E176. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0000000000001734.

Individualized Physical Therapy Is Cost-Effective Compared With Guideline-Based 
Advice for People With Low Back Disorders.

Hahne AJ(1), Ford JJ(1), Surkitt LD(1), Richards MC(1), Chan AYP(1), Slater 
SL(2), Taylor NF(1).

Author information:
(1)Low Back Research Team, School of Allied Health, La Trobe University, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Physiotherapy Department, Northern Health, Epping, Victoria, Australia.

STUDY DESIGN: A cost-utility analysis within a randomized controlled trial was 
conducted from the health care perspective.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to determine whether individualized 
physical therapy incorporating advice is cost-effective relative to 
guideline-based advice alone for people with low back pain and/or referred leg 
pain (≥6 weeks, ≤6 months duration of symptoms).
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Low back disorders are a burdensome and costly 
condition across the world. Cost-effective treatments are needed to address the 
global burden attributable to this condition.
METHODS: Three hundred participants were randomly allocated to receive either 
two sessions of guideline-based advice alone (n = 144), or 10 sessions of 
individualized physical therapy targeting pathoanatomical, psychosocial and 
neurophysiological factors, and incorporating advice (n = 156). Data relating to 
health care costs, health benefits (EuroQol-5D) and work absence were obtained 
from participants via questionnaires at 5, 10, 26, and 52-week follow-ups.
RESULTS: Total health care costs were similar for both groups: mean difference 
$27.03 [95% confidence interval (95% CI): -200.29 to 254.35]. Health benefits 
across the 12-month follow-up were significantly greater with individualized 
physical therapy: incremental quality-adjusted life years = 0.06 (95% CI: 
0.02-0.10). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $422 per 
quality-adjusted life year gained. The probability that individualized physical 
therapy was cost-effective reached 90% at a willingness-to-pay threshold of 
$36,000. A saving of $1995.51 (95% CI: 143.98-3847.03) per worker in income was 
realized in the individualized physical therapy group relative to the advice 
group. Sensitivity and subgroup analyses all revealed a dominant position for 
individualized physical therapy; hence, the base case analysis was the most 
conservative.
CONCLUSION: Ten sessions of individualized physical therapy incorporating advice 
is cost-effective compared with two sessions of guideline-based advice alone for 
people with low back disorders.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 2.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0000000000001734
PMID: 27306256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Sleep. 2016 Aug 1;39(8):1571-81. doi: 10.5665/sleep.6024.

Cost-Effectiveness of Group and Internet Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for 
Insomnia in Adolescents: Results from a Randomized Controlled Trial.

De Bruin EJ(1), van Steensel FJ(1), Meijer AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute of Child Development and Education, University of 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: To investigate cost-effectiveness of adolescent cognitive 
behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBTI) in group- and Internet-delivered formats, 
from a societal perspective with a time horizon of 1 y.
METHODS: Costs and effects data up to 1-y follow-up were obtained from a 
randomized controlled trial (RCT) comparing Internet CBTI to face-to-face group 
CBTI. The study was conducted at the laboratory of the Research Institute of 
Child Development and Education at the University of Amsterdam, and the academic 
youth mental health care center UvAMinds in Amsterdam. Sixty-two participants 
meeting Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, 
Text Revision criteria for insomnia were randomized to face-to-face group CBTI 
(GT; n = 31, age = 15.6 y ± 1.8, 71.0% girls) or individual Internet CBTI (IT; n 
= 31, age = 15.4 y ± 1.5, 83.9% girls). The intervention consisted of six weekly 
sessions and a 2-mo follow up booster-session of CBTI, consisting of 
psychoeducation, sleep hygiene, restriction of time in bed, stimulus control, 
cognitive therapy, and relaxation techniques. GT sessions were held in groups of 
six to eight adolescents guided by two trained sleep therapists. IT consisted of 
individual Internet therapy with preprogrammed content similar to GT, and guided 
by trained sleep therapists.
RESULTS: Outcome measures were subjective sleep efficiency (SE) ≥ 85%, and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALY). Analyses were conducted from a societal 
perspective. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated using 
bootstrap sampling, and presented in cost-effectiveness planes. Primary analysis 
showed costs over 1 y were higher for GT but effects were similar for IT and GT. 
Bootstrapped ICERs demonstrated there is a high probability of IT being 
cost-effective compared to GT. Secondary analyses confirmed robustness of 
results.
CONCLUSIONS: Internet CBTI is a cost-effective treatment compared to group CBTI 
for adolescents, although effects were largely similar for both formats. Further 
studies in a clinical setting are warranted.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: ID: ISRCTN33922163; trial name: Effectiveness of 
cognitive behavioral therapy for sleeplessness in adolescents; URL: 
http://www.isrctn.com/ISRCTN33922163.

© 2016 Associated Professional Sleep Societies, LLC.

DOI: 10.5665/sleep.6024
PMCID: PMC4945317
PMID: 27306272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Appl Physiol Nutr Metab. 2016 Jun;41(6 Suppl 3):S266-82. doi: 
10.1139/apnm-2015-0627.

Systematic review of the relationships between sleep duration and health 
indicators in school-aged children and youth.

Chaput JP(1), Gray CE(1), Poitras VJ(1), Carson V(2), Gruber R(3), Olds T(4), 
Weiss SK(5), Connor Gorber S(6), Kho ME(7), Sampson M(1), Belanger K(1), Eryuzlu 
S(1), Callender L(1), Tremblay MS(1).

Author information:
(1)a Healthy Active Living and Obesity Research Group, Children's Hospital of 
Eastern Ontario Research Institute, 401 Smyth Road, Ottawa, ON K1H 8L1, Canada.
(2)b Faculty of Physical Education and Recreation, University of Alberta, 
Edmonton, AB, Canada.
(3)c Attention, Behavior, and Sleep Laboratory, Douglas Mental Health University 
Institute, Verdun, QC, Canada.
(4)d Alliance for Research in Exercise, Nutrition and Activity (ARENA), Sansom 
Institute of Health Research, University of South Australia, Adelaide, 
Australia.
(5)e Division of Neurology, The Hospital for Sick Children, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(6)f Office of the Task Force on Preventive Health Care, Public Health Agency of 
Canada, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(7)g School of Rehabilitation Science, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, 
Canada.

The objective of this systematic review was to examine the relationships between 
objectively and subjectively measured sleep duration and various health 
indicators in children and youth aged 5-17 years. Online databases were searched 
in January 2015 with no date or study design limits. Included studies were 
peer-reviewed and met the a priori-determined population (apparently healthy 
children and youth aged 5-17 years), intervention/exposure/comparator (various 
sleep durations), and outcome (adiposity, emotional regulation, 
cognition/academic achievement, quality of life/well-being, harms/injuries, and 
cardiometabolic biomarkers) criteria. Because of high levels of heterogeneity 
across studies, narrative syntheses were employed. A total of 141 articles (110 
unique samples), including 592 215 unique participants from 40 different 
countries, met inclusion criteria. Overall, longer sleep duration was associated 
with lower adiposity indicators, better emotional regulation, better academic 
achievement, and better quality of life/well-being. The evidence was mixed 
and/or limited for the association between sleep duration and cognition, 
harms/injuries, and cardiometabolic biomarkers. The quality of evidence ranged 
from very low to high across study designs and health indicators. In conclusion, 
we confirmed previous investigations showing that shorter sleep duration is 
associated with adverse physical and mental health outcomes. However, the 
available evidence relies heavily on cross-sectional studies using self-reported 
sleep. To better inform contemporary sleep recommendations, there is a need for 
sleep restriction/extension interventions that examine the changes in different 
outcome measures against various amounts of objectively measured sleep to have a 
better sense of dose-response relationships.

DOI: 10.1139/apnm-2015-0627
PMID: 27306433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Turk Neurosurg. 2016;26(4):635-642. doi: 10.5137/1019-5149.JTN.8476-13.0.
Epub  2013 Jul 8.

LUNG CANCER METASTASIS TO THE SPINE.

Aydin AL(1), Emel E, Sasani M, Gomleksiz C, Oktenoglu T, Ozer AF.

Author information:
(1)Koc University School of Medicine.

BACKGROUND: In patients affected by malignant tumors, spinal column metastases 
are frequent. Incidence varies between 30% -70%. Lung cancer is the second most 
frequent cancer invading spine in women, following breast cancer. In men, the 
first. All patients are under risk of symptomatic spinal cord compression. 
