Prognosis is poor. Indications for surgery are progressive neurologic deficit, 
intractable pain, and impending vertebral fracture. Treatment is to preserve 
neurologic function, promote pain relief and provide functional improvement.
STUDY DESIGN: Report of five patients with symptomatic thoracic vertebral 
invasion secondary to lung cancer who underwent nine surgical procedures. In all 
patients, invasion to spinal column was from neighbouring lung tissue by direct 
extension or through segmental arteries.
METHODS: Five patients with symptomatic metastatic spinal cord compression at 
thoracal level, secondary to lung cancer were operated. They were evaluated 
regarding neurologic status, pain and disability scores, tumor type, level, 
surgical procedure.
CONCLUSION: Lung cancer is an aggressive tumor. Patients with symptomatic spinal 
cord compression must be treated aggressively. With current spinal surgical 
techniques and with the coordinated effort, the life expectancy and quality of 
these patients are extended.

DOI: 10.5137/1019-5149.JTN.8476-13.0
PMID: 27306480


599. Health Technol Assess. 2016 Jun;20(43):1-392. doi: 10.3310/hta20430.

A systematic review of the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
pharmacological and psychological interventions for the management of 
obsessive-compulsive disorder in children/adolescents and adults.

Skapinakis P(1), Caldwell D(2), Hollingworth W(2), Bryden P(2), Fineberg N(3), 
Salkovskis P(4), Welton N(2), Baxter H(2), Kessler D(2), Churchill R(5), Lewis 
G(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK.
(2)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(3)University of Hertfordshire and Hertfordshire Partnerships Mental Health 
Trust, Hatfield, UK.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Bath, Bath, UK.
(5)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, York, UK.

BACKGROUND: Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a relatively common and 
disabling condition.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the clinical effectiveness, acceptability and 
cost-effectiveness of pharmacological and psychological interventions for the 
treatment of OCD in children, adolescents and adults.
DATA SOURCES: We searched the Cochrane Collaboration Depression, Anxiety and 
Neurosis Trials Registers, which includes trials from routine searches of all 
the major databases. Searches were conducted from inception to 31 December 2014.
REVIEW METHODS: We undertook a systematic review and network meta-analysis (NMA) 
of the clinical effectiveness and acceptability of available treatments. 
Outcomes for effectiveness included mean differences in the total scores of the 
Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale or its children's version and total 
dropouts for acceptability. For the cost-effectiveness analysis, we developed a 
probabilistic model informed by the results of the NMA. All analyses were 
performed using OpenBUGS version 3.2.3 (members of OpenBUGS Project Management 
Group; see www.openbugs.net ).
RESULTS: We included 86 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in our systematic 
review. In the NMA we included 71 RCTs (54 in adults and 17 in children and 
adolescents) for effectiveness and 71 for acceptability (53 in adults and 18 in 
children and adolescents), comprising 7643 and 7942 randomised patients 
available for analysis, respectively. In general, the studies were of medium 
quality. The results of the NMA showed that in adults all selective serotonin 
reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and clomipramine had greater effects than drug 
placebo. There were no differences between SSRIs, and a trend for clomipramine 
to be more effective did not reach statistical significance. All active 
psychological therapies had greater effects than drug placebo. Behavioural 
therapy (BT) and cognitive therapy (CT) had greater effects than psychological 
placebo, but cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) did not. BT and CT, but not 
CBT, had greater effects than medications, but there are considerable 
uncertainty and methodological limitations that should be taken into account. In 
children and adolescents, CBT and BT had greater effects than drug placebo, but 
differences compared with psychological placebo did not reach statistical 
significance. SSRIs as a class showed a trend for superiority over drug placebo, 
but the difference did not reach statistical significance. However, the 
superiority of some individual drugs (fluoxetine, sertraline) was marginally 
statistically significant. Regarding acceptability, all interventions except 
clomipramine had good tolerability. In adults, CT and BT had the highest 
probability of being most cost-effective at conventional National Institute for 
Health and Care Excellence thresholds. In children and adolescents, CBT or CBT 
combined with a SSRI were more likely to be cost-effective. The results are 
uncertain and sensitive to assumptions about treatment effect and the exclusion 
of trials at high risk of bias.
LIMITATIONS: The majority of psychological trials included patients who were 
taking medications. There were few studies in children and adolescents.
CONCLUSIONS: In adults, psychological interventions, clomipramine, SSRIs or 
combinations of these are all effective, whereas in children and adolescents, 
psychological interventions, either as monotherapy or combined with specific 
SSRIs, were more likely to be effective. Future RCTs should improve their 
design, in particular for psychotherapy or combined interventions.
STUDY REGISTRATION: The study is registered as PROSPERO CRD42012002441.
FUNDING DETAILS: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology 
Assessment programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta20430
PMCID: PMC4921795
PMID: 27306503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Cancer Causes Control. 2016 Aug;27(8):955-64. doi:
10.1007/s10552-016-0762-1.  Epub 2016 Jun 15.

Temporal changes in loss of life expectancy due to cancer in Australia: a 
flexible parametric approach.

Baade PD(1)(2)(3), Youlden DR(4), Andersson TM(5), Youl PH(4)(6)(7), Walpole 
ET(8), Kimlin MG(4)(6)(9), Aitken JF(4)(6), Biggar RJ(6)(9).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Council Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 4006, Australia. 
peterbaade@cancerqld.org.au.
(2)School of Public Health and Social Work, Queensland University of Technology, 
Brisbane, QLD, 4059, Australia. peterbaade@cancerqld.org.au.
(3)Menzies Health Institute Queensland, Griffith University, Gold Coast, QLD, 
4222, Australia. peterbaade@cancerqld.org.au.
(4)Cancer Council Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 4006, Australia.
(5)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
171 76, Stockholm, Sweden.
(6)School of Public Health and Social Work, Queensland University of Technology, 
Brisbane, QLD, 4059, Australia.
(7)Menzies Health Institute Queensland, Griffith University, Gold Coast, QLD, 
4222, Australia.
(8)Division of Cancer Services, Princess Alexandra Hospital, Brisbane, QLD, 
4102, Australia.
(9)AusSun Research Laboratory, University of the Sunshine Coast, Sunshine Coast, 
QLD, 4556, Australia.

PURPOSE: To evaluate changes in cancer mortality burden over time by assessing 
temporal trends in life expectation for Australian residents diagnosed with 
cancer.
METHODS: The study cohort consisted of all people diagnosed with cancer in the 
period 1990-2000 and aged 15-89 years (n = 1,275,978), with mortality follow-up 
to 31 December 2010. Flexible parametric survival models incorporating 
background age-sex-year-specific population mortality rates were applied to 
generate the observed survival curves for all cancers combined and selected 
major cancer types. Predicted values of loss of life expectancy (LOLE) in years 
were generated and then averaged across calendar year and age group (15-49, 
50-69 and 70-89 years) or spread of disease (localized, regional, distant, 
unknown).
RESULTS: The greatest LOLE burden was for lung cancer (14.3 years per diagnosis) 
and lowest for melanoma (2.5 years). There was a significant decrease in LOLE 
over time (-0.13 LOLE per year) for all cancers combined. Decreases were also 
observed for female breast cancer (-0.21), prostate cancer (-0.17), colorectal 
cancer (-0.08), melanoma (-0.07) and stomach cancer (-0.02), with slight 
increases for lung cancer (+0.04). When restricted to the sub-cohort from New 
South Wales with spread of disease information, these decreases in LOLE were 
primarily among cancers categorized as localized or regional spread at 
diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: In Australia, persons diagnosed with cancer have a steadily 
improving outlook that exceeds that expected by general improvement in 
population life expectancy. The overall improvement is observed in persons with 
localized or regional cancers but not in those with advanced cancers, findings 
which encourage earlier diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10552-016-0762-1
PMID: 27306518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Br J Nutr. 2016 Aug;116(4):692-9. doi: 10.1017/S0007114516002403. Epub 2016
Jun  16.

BMI and healthy life expectancy in old and very old women.

Leigh L(1), Byles JE(1), Jagger C(2).

Author information:
(1)1Research Centre for Generational Health and Ageing,University of 
Newcastle,University Drive,Callaghan,NSW 2308,Australia.
(2)2Institute of Health & Society,Newcastle University Institute for 
Ageing,Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne NE4 5PL,UK.

There is conflicting evidence for the effect of BMI on mortality at older ages, 
and little information on its effect on healthy life expectancy (HLE). 
Longitudinal data were from the 1921-1926 cohort of the Australian Longitudinal 
Study on Women's Health (n 11 119), over 18 years of follow-up. Self-rated 
health status was measured at each survey, and BMI was measured at baseline. 
Multi-state models were fitted to estimate the effect of BMI on total life 
expectancy (TLE) and HLE. Compared with women of normal weight, overweight women 
at the age of 75 years had similar TLE but fewer years healthy (-0·79; 95 % CI 
-1·21, -0·37) and more years unhealthy (0·99; 95 % CI 0·56, 1·42). Obese women 
at the age of 75 years lived fewer years in total than normal-weight women 
(-1·09; 95 % CI -1·77, -0·41), and had more unhealthy years (1·46; 95 % CI 0·97, 
1·95 years). Underweight women had the lowest TLE and the fewest years of 
healthy life. Women should aim to enter old age at a normal weight and in good 
health, as the slight benefit on mortality of being overweight is offset by 
spending fewer years healthy. All outcomes were better for those who began in 
good health. The relationship between weight and HLE has important implications 
for nutrition for older people, particularly maintenance of lean body mass and 
prevention of obesity. The benefit of weight loss in obese older women remains 
unclear, but we support the recommendation that weight-loss advice be 
individualised, as any benefits may not outweigh the risks in healthy obese 
older adults.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114516002403
PMID: 27307012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. BMJ. 2016 Jun 15;353:i2200. doi: 10.1136/bmj.i2200.

Management of diabetes mellitus in older people with comorbidities.

Huang ES(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago, 5841 S Maryland Ave, Chicago, 
IL 60637, USA.

Diabetes mellitus is a chronic disease of aging that affects more than 20% of 
people over 65. In older patients with diabetes, comorbidities are highly 
prevalent and their presence may alter the relative importance, effectiveness, 
and safety of treatments for diabetes. Randomized controlled trials have shown 
that intensive glucose control produces microvascular and cardiovascular 
benefits but typically after extended treatment periods (five to nine years) and 
with exposure to short term risks such as mortality (in one trial) and 
hypoglycemia. Decision analysis, health economics, and observational studies 
have helped to illustrate the importance of acknowledging life expectancy, 
hypoglycemia, and treatment burden when setting goals in diabetes. Guidelines 
recommend that physicians individualize the intensity of glucose control and 
treatments on the basis of the prognosis (for example, three tiers based on 
comorbidities and functional impairments) and preferences of individual 
patients. Very few studies have attempted to formally implement and study these 
concepts in clinical practice. To better meet the treatment needs of older 
patients with diabetes and comorbidities, more research is needed to determine 
the risks and benefits of intensifying, maintaining, or de-intensifying 
treatments in this population. This research effort should extend to the 
development and study of decision support tools as well as targeted care 
management.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.i2200
PMCID: PMC6884153
PMID: 27307175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: I have read and understood 
the BMJ policy on declaration of interests and declare the following interests: 
none.


603. Circ Arrhythm Electrophysiol. 2016 Jun;9(6):10.1161/CIRCEP.115.003407
e003407.  doi: 10.1161/CIRCEP.115.003407.

Cost-Effectiveness of Percutaneous Closure of the Left Atrial Appendage in 
Atrial Fibrillation Based on Results From PROTECT AF Versus PREVAIL.

Freeman JV(1), Hutton DW(2), Barnes GD(2), Zhu RP(2), Owens DK(2), Garber AM(2), 
Go AS(2), Hlatky MA(2), Heidenreich PA(2), Wang PJ(2), Al-Ahmad A(2), Turakhia 
MP(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT (J.V.F.); 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor (D.W.H., G.D.B., R.P.Z.); VA Palo Alto Health 
Care System, CA (D.K.O., P.A.H., M.P.T.); Stanford University School of 
Medicine, CA (D.K.O., A.S.G., M.A.H., P.A.H., P.J.W., M.P.T.); Harvard 
University, Cambridge, MA (A.M.G.); Kaiser Permanente Northern California 
Division of Research, Oakland (A.S.G.); University of California, San Francisco 
(A.S.G.); and Texas Cardiac Arrhythmia Institute, Austin (A.A.-A.). 
james.freeman@yale.edu.
(2)From the Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT (J.V.F.); 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor (D.W.H., G.D.B., R.P.Z.); VA Palo Alto Health 
Care System, CA (D.K.O., P.A.H., M.P.T.); Stanford University School of 
Medicine, CA (D.K.O., A.S.G., M.A.H., P.A.H., P.J.W., M.P.T.); Harvard 
University, Cambridge, MA (A.M.G.); Kaiser Permanente Northern California 
Division of Research, Oakland (A.S.G.); University of California, San Francisco 
(A.S.G.); and Texas Cardiac Arrhythmia Institute, Austin (A.A.-A.).

Comment in
    Circ Arrhythm Electrophysiol. 2016 Jun;9(6):

BACKGROUND: Randomized trials of left atrial appendage (LAA) closure with the 
Watchman device have shown varying results, and its cost effectiveness compared 
with anticoagulation has not been evaluated using all available contemporary 
trial data.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We used a Markov decision model to estimate lifetime 
quality-adjusted survival, costs, and cost effectiveness of LAA closure with 
Watchman, compared directly with warfarin and indirectly with dabigatran, using 
data from the long-term (mean 3.8 year) follow-up of Percutaneous Closure of the 
Left Atrial Appendage Versus Warfarin Therapy for Prevention of Stroke in 
Patients With Atrial Fibrillation (PROTECT AF) and Prospective Randomized 
Evaluation of the Watchman LAA Closure Device in Patients With Atrial 
Fibrillation (PREVAIL) randomized trials. Using data from PROTECT AF, the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios compared with warfarin and dabigatran were 
$20 486 and $23 422 per quality-adjusted life year, respectively. Using data 
from PREVAIL, LAA closure was dominated by warfarin and dabigatran, meaning that 
it was less effective (8.44, 8.54, and 8.59 quality-adjusted life years, 
respectively) and more costly. At a willingness-to-pay threshold of $50 000 per 
quality-adjusted life year, LAA closure was cost effective 90% and 9% of the 
time under PROTECT AF and PREVAIL assumptions, respectively. These results were 
sensitive to the rates of ischemic stroke and intracranial hemorrhage for LAA 
closure and medical anticoagulation.
CONCLUSIONS: Using data from the PROTECT AF trial, LAA closure with the Watchman 
device was cost effective; using PREVAIL trial data, Watchman was more costly 
and less effective than warfarin and dabigatran. PROTECT AF enrolled more 
patients and has substantially longer follow-up time, allowing greater 
statistical certainty with the cost-effectiveness results. However, longer-term 
trial results and postmarketing surveillance of major adverse events will be 
vital to determining the value of the Watchman in clinical practice.

© 2016 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCEP.115.003407
PMCID: PMC4911813
PMID: 27307517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2016 May 23;12:1251-60. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S86765. 
eCollection 2016.

Update on the role of eslicarbazepine acetate in the treatment of partial-onset 
epilepsy.

Tambucci R(1), Basti C(1), Maresca M(1), Coppola G(2), Verrotti A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy.
(2)Child and Adolescent Neuropsychiatry Unit, University of Salerno, Salerno, 
Italy.

Eslicarbazepine acetate (ESL) is a once daily new third generation antiepileptic 
drug that shares the basic chemical structure of carbamazepine and oxcarbazepine 
- a dibenzazepine nucleus with the 5-carboxamide substituent, but is 
structurally different at the 10,11-position. ESL is a pro-drug metabolized to 
its major active metabolite eslicarbazepine. Despite the fact that the exact 
mechanism of action has not been fully elucidated, it is thought to involve 
inhibition of voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSC). ESL inhibits sodium currents 
in a voltage-dependent way by an interaction predominantly with the inactivated 
state of the VGSC, thus selectively reducing the activity of rapidly firing 
(epileptic) neurons. ESL reduces VGSC availability through enhancement of slow 
inactivation. In Phase III studies, adjunctive therapy with ESL 800 or 1,200 
mg/day leads to a significant decrease in the seizure frequency in adults with 
refractory partial onset epilepsy. Based on these results, ESL has been approved 
in Europe (by the European Medicines Agency) and in the United States (by the US 
Food and Drug Administration) as add-on therapy. Data on efficacy and safety 
have been confirmed by 1-year extension and real life observational studies. 
Recently, based on results from two randomized, double-blind, historical control 
Phase III trials, ESL received US Food and Drug Administration approval also as 
a monotherapy for patients with partial onset epilepsy. In the pediatric 
setting, encouraging results have been obtained suggesting its potential role in 
the management of epileptic children. Overall ESL was generally well tolerated. 
The most common adverse events were dizziness, somnolence, headache, nausea, 
diplopia, and vomiting. Adverse events can be minimized by appropriate 
titration. In conclusion, ESL seems to overcome some drawbacks of the previous 
antiepileptic drugs, suggesting a major role of ESL in the management of focal 
onset epilepsy for both new onset and refractory cases, either as monotherapy or 
as adjunctive treatment.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S86765
PMCID: PMC4889089
PMID: 27307737


605. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2016 Jan;28(1 Suppl):111S-114S.

Addressing the Challenge of Noncommunicable Diseases: Some Key Issues and a 
Country Case Study.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 27308679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. NCHS Data Brief. 2016 Jun;(250):1-8.

The Effect of Changes in Selected Age-specific Causes of Death on Non-Hispanic 
White Life Expectancy Between 2000 and 2014.

Kochanek KD, Arias E, Bastian BA.

Data from the National Vital Statistics System, Mortality •Between 2000 and 
2014, life expectancy increased by 3.6, 2.6, and 1.4 years, respectively, for 
non-Hispanic black, Hispanic, and non-Hispanic white persons. •The 1.4-year 
increase in life expectancy for non-Hispanic white persons would have been 
greater if not for increases in death rates due to unintentional injuries, 
suicide, Alzheimer's disease, chronic liver disease, and hypertension. 
•Increases in death rates due to unintentional injuries, suicide, and chronic 
liver disease were large enough to increase all-cause non-Hispanic white death 
rates for ages 25-34, 35-44, and 45-54. •Increases in death rates due to 
unintentional poisonings for ages 25-34, 35-44, and 45-54 had the greatest 
impact on the change in life expectancy for non-Hispanic white persons.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 27308863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Endocr Rev. 2016 Aug;37(4):320-46. doi: 10.1210/er.2015-1105. Epub 2016 Jun
16.

Bone Disease in Thalassemia: A Molecular and Clinical Overview.

Wong P(1), Fuller PJ(1), Gillespie MT(1), Milat F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology (P.W., P.J.F., F.M.), Monash Health, Clayton, 
Victoria 3168, Australia; Hudson Institute of Medical Research (P.W., P.J.F., 
F.M.), Clayton, Victoria 3168, Australia; Faculty of Medicine (P.W., P.J.F., 
M.T.G., F.M.), Nursing and Health Sciences, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 
3168, Australia.

Thalassemia bone disease is a common and severe complication of thalassemia-an 
inherited blood disorder due to mutations in the α or β hemoglobin gene. In its 
more severe form, severe anemia is present, and treatment with frequent red 
blood cell transfusion is necessary. Because the body has limited capacity to 
excrete iron, concomitant iron chelation is required to prevent the 
complications of iron overload. The effects of chronic anemia and iron overload 
can lead to multiple end-organ complications such as cardiomyopathy, increased 
risks of blood-borne diseases, and liver, pituitary, and bone disease. However, 
our understanding of thalassemia bone disease is incomplete and is composed of a 
complex piecemeal of risk factors that include genetic factors, hormonal 
deficiency, marrow expansion, skeletal dysmorphism, iron toxicity, chelators, 
and increased bone turnover. The high prevalence of bone disease in 
transfusion-dependent thalassemia is seen in both younger and older patients as 
life expectancy continues to improve. Indeed, hypogonadism and GH deficiency 
contribute to a failure to achieve peak bone mass in this group. The 
contribution of kidney dysfunction to bone disease in thalassemia is a new and 
significant complication. This coincides with studies confirming an increase in 
kidney stones and associated accelerated bone loss in the thalassemia cohort. 
However, multiple factors are also associated with reduced bone mineral density 
and include marrow expansion, iron toxicity, iron chelators, increased bone 
turnover, GH deficiency, and hypogonadism. Thalassemia bone disease is a 
composite of not only multiple hormonal deficiencies but also multiorgan 
diseases. This review will address the molecular mechanisms and clinical risk 
factors associated with thalassemia bone disease and the clinical implications 
for monitoring and treating this disorder.

DOI: 10.1210/er.2015-1105
PMID: 27309522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Am J Public Health. 2016 Aug;106(8):1405-8. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2016.303238.
Epub  2016 Jun 16.

First Medicare Demonstration of Concurrent Provision of Curative and Hospice 
Services for End-of-Life Care.

Harrison KL(1), Connor SR(1).

Author information:
(1)Krista L. Harrison is with the Division of Geriatrics at University of 
California, San Francisco. Stephen R. Connor is with Worldwide Hospice 
Palliative Care Alliance, Fairfax Station, VA.

Hospice developed in the United States in the 1970s as a way to address unmet 
needs for end-of-life care: support for pain and symptom management provided in 
the location and manner that the patient and family prefer. In Europe and 
Australia, hospice is available from the time of diagnosis of an advanced 
life-limiting illness onward, but in the United States, the Medicare hospice 
benefit restricts eligibility for these services to patients who no longer 
receive curative treatment. We provide background and analysis of the first 
Medicare hospice demonstration in 35 years that will test the concurrent 
provision of curative and hospice services for terminally ill individuals with a 
life expectancy of six months or less. This demonstration is a harbinger of 
potential policy changes to hospice and palliative care in the United States 
that could reduce barriers to end-of-life care that aligns with patient and 
family preferences as the demand for care increases with an aging population.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2016.303238
PMCID: PMC4940650
PMID: 27310352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Biotechnol Lett. 2016 Oct;38(10):1739-45. doi: 10.1007/s10529-016-2149-5.
Epub  2016 Jun 16.

C-Terminal carbohydrate-binding module 9_2 fused to the N-terminus of GH11 
xylanase from Aspergillus niger.

Xu W(1), Liu Y(1), Ye Y(1), Liu M(1), Han L(1), Song A(1), Liu L(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)From the Life Science College, Henan Agricultural University, 95 Wenhua Road, 
Zhengzhou, 450002, Henan, People's Republic of China.
(2)From the Life Science College, Henan Agricultural University, 95 Wenhua Road, 
Zhengzhou, 450002, Henan, People's Republic of China. liangwei@henau.edu.cn.
(3)Key Laboratory of Enzyme Engineering of Agricultural Microbiology, Ministry 
of Agriculture, Zhengzhou, People's Republic of China. liangwei@henau.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: The 9_2 carbohydrate-binding module (C2) locates natively at the 
C-terminus of the GH10 thermophilic xylanase from Thermotoga marimita. When 
fused to the C-terminus, C2 improved thermostability of a GH11 xylanase (Xyn) 
from Aspergillus niger. However, a question is whether the C-terminal C2 would 
have a thermostabilizing effect when fused to the N-terminus of a catalytic 
module.
RESULTS: A chimeric enzyme, C2-Xyn, was created by step-extension PCR, cloned in 
pET21a(+), and expressed in E. coli BL21(DE3). The C2-Xyn exhibited a 2 °C 
higher optimal temperature, a 2.8-fold longer thermostability, and a 4.5-fold 
higher catalytic efficiency on beechwood xylan than the Xyn. The C2-Xyn 
exhibited a similar affinity for binding to beechwood xylan and a higher 
affinity for oat-spelt xylan than Xyn.
CONCLUSION: C2 is a thermostabilizing carbohydrate-binding module and provides a 
model of fusion at an enzymatic terminus inconsistent with the modular natural 
terminal location.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-016-2149-5
PMID: 27311309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Gastroenterology. 2016 Sep;151(3):427-439.e6. doi:
10.1053/j.gastro.2016.06.003.  Epub 2016 Jun 14.

Comparative Effectiveness and Cost Effectiveness of a Multitarget Stool DNA Test 
to Screen for Colorectal Neoplasia.

Ladabaum U(1), Mannalithara A(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California. Electronic address: 
uri.ladabaum@stanford.edu.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 2017 May;152(6):1621-1622.
    Gastroenterology. 2017 May;152(6):1620-1621.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: We developed a model to determine whether a multitarget stool 
DNA (MT-sDNA) test that detects colorectal cancer (CRC) and polyps with higher 
sensitivity and lower specificity, but at a higher cost, than the fecal 
immunochemical test (FIT) can be used in screening.
METHODS: We used a Markov model of average-risk CRC screening to compare the 
effectiveness and cost effectiveness of screening with the MT-sDNA test vs FIT 
or colonoscopy. We accounted for the complex longitudinal participation patterns 
observed in organized programs vs opportunistic screening, as well as organized 
programs' patient support costs and differential payment rates by commercial 
insurers vs Medicare.
RESULTS: With optimal adherence, yearly FIT and colonoscopy every 10 years were 
dominant (more effective and less costly) than MT-sDNA every 3 years. Compared 
with successful organized FIT programs (50% consistent and 27% intermittent 
participation; patient support costs, $153/cycle), the patient support program 
for the MT-sDNA test would need 68% of subjects to participate consistently and 
32% to participate intermittently every 3 years, or the MT-sDNA test would need 
to cost 60% less than in the base case ($260 commercial payment and $197 
Medicare payment), for the MT-sDNA test to be preferred over FIT at a threshold 
of $100,000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Compared with 
opportunistic yearly FIT screening (15% consistent and 30% intermittent 
participation), performing the MT-sDNA test every 3 years would cost less than 
$100,000 per QALY gained if the MT-sDNA test achieved a participation rate more 
than 1.7-fold that of FIT. The results were robust in sensitivity analyses. 
Assuming equal participation across strategies and a threshold of $100,000 per 
QALY gained, FIT was preferred in 99.3% of iterations in Monte Carlo simulation.
CONCLUSIONS: In a Markov model, we found FIT and colonoscopy to be more 
effective and less costly than the MT-sDNA test when participation rates were 
equal for all strategies. For the MT-sDNA test to be cost effective, the patient 
support program included in its cost would need to achieve substantially higher 
participation rates than those of FIT, whether in organized programs or under 
the opportunistic screening setting that is more common in the United States 
than in the rest of the world.

Copyright © 2016 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2016.06.003
PMID: 27311556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Med Decis Making. 2017 May;37(4):415-426. doi: 10.1177/0272989X16654444.
Epub  2016 Jun 16.

Using Survival Analysis to Improve Estimates of Life Year Gains in Policy 
Evaluations.

Meacock R(1), Sutton M(1), Kristensen SR(1), Harrison M(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Manchester, Manchester, UK (RM, MS, SRK).
(2)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, BC, Canada (MH).
(3)Centre for Health Evaluation and Outcome Sciences, Vancouver, BC, Canada 
(MH).

BACKGROUND: Policy evaluations taking a lifetime horizon have converted 
estimated changes in short-term mortality to expected life year gains using 
general population life expectancy. However, the life expectancy of the affected 
patients may differ from the general population. In trials, survival models are 
commonly used to extrapolate life year gains. The objective was to demonstrate 
the feasibility and materiality of using parametric survival models to 
extrapolate future survival in health care policy evaluations.
METHODS: We used our previous cost-effectiveness analysis of a 
pay-for-performance program as a motivating example. We first used the cohort of 
patients admitted prior to the program to compare 3 methods for estimating 
remaining life expectancy. We then used a difference-in-differences framework to 
estimate the life year gains associated with the program using general 
population life expectancy and survival models. Patient-level data from Hospital 
Episode Statistics was utilized for patients admitted to hospitals in England 
for pneumonia between 1 April 2007 and 31 March 2008 and between 1 April 2009 
and 31 March 2010, and linked to death records for the period from 1 April 2007 
to 31 March 2011.
RESULTS: In our cohort of patients, using parametric survival models rather than 
general population life expectancy figures reduced the estimated mean life years 
remaining by 30% (9.19 v. 13.15 years, respectively). However, the estimated 
mean life year gains associated with the program are larger using survival 
models (0.380 years) compared to using general population life expectancy (0.154 
years).
CONCLUSIONS: Using general population life expectancy to estimate the impact of 
health care policies can overestimate life expectancy but underestimate the 
impact of policies on life year gains. Using a longer follow-up period improved 
the accuracy of estimated survival and program impact considerably.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X16654444
PMID: 27311650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2016 Aug 19;477(2):222-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.06.046. Epub 2016 Jun 13.

Decreased HCRP1 promotes breast cancer metastasis by enhancing EGFR 
phosphorylation.

Yang W(1), Wang JG(2), Wang Q(3), Qin Y(3), Lin X(3), Zhou D(1), Ren K(1), Hou 
C(1), Xu J(4), Liu X(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Fudan University, 
Shanghai 200032, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Fudan University, 
Shanghai 200032, China; Department of Pathology, The Affiliated Hospital of 
Qingdao University, Qingdao 266003, China.
(3)Department of Pathology, Shandong Provincial Hospital Affiliated to Shandong 
University, Jinan 250021, China.
(4)Department of Pathology, Shandong Provincial Hospital Affiliated to Shandong 
University, Jinan 250021, China. Electronic address: 4366203@qq.com.
(5)Department of Pathology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Fudan University, 
Shanghai 200032, China; Department of Pathology, The Fifth Hospital of Shanghai, 
Fudan University, Shanghai 200240, China. Electronic address: 
xpliu1228@fudan.edu.cn.

Previous study showed that hepatocellular carcinoma related protein 1 (HCRP1) is 
decreased in breast cancer. HCRP1 expression is inversely related to epithelial 
growth factor receptor (EGFR) in breast cancer tissues, and patients with breast 
cancer expressing lower HCRP1 tended to suffer a shorter life expectancy. 
However, the detailed biological functions of HCRP1 in breast cancer as well as 
the interaction between HCRP1 and EGFR remain unexplored. In this study, we 
examined HCRP1 expression in breast cancer tissues and cell lines by western 
blot. Thereafter, we performed transwell migration and matrigel invasion assays 
after siRNA interference and lentiviral vector of HCRP1 infection. To further 
investigate the interaction between HCRP1 downregulation and EGFR signaling 
pathway, we evaluated the phosphorylation status of EGFR, Erk1/2 and Akt by 
western blot following HCRP1-siRNA transfection. Moreover, we investigated the 
in vivo functions of HCRP1 using a breast cancer xenograft model. We found that 
HCRP1 depletion significantly promoted breast cancer migration and invasion 
while HCRP1 overexpression produced an opposite effect. In addition, HCRP1 
depletion decreased EGFR degradation and enhanced phosphorylation of EGFR. 
Interestingly, HCRP1 depletion also led to insensitivity to EGFR inhibitors 
treatment. The in vivo experiment confirmed the metastasis inhibition function 
of HCRP1. The present data indicate that HCRP1 inhibits breast cancer metastasis 
through downregulating EGFR phosphorylation.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.06.046
PMID: 27311861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. BioDrugs. 2016 Aug;30(4):361-70. doi: 10.1007/s40259-016-0182-5.

Mepolizumab: A Review in Eosinophilic Asthma.

Deeks ED(1).

Author information:
(1)Springer, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi Bay, 0754, Auckland, New Zealand. 
demail@springer.com.

Mepolizumab (Nucala(®)) is a humanized monoclonal antibody against 
interleukin-5, a cytokine involved in the development, recruitment and 
activation of eosinophils (cellular mediators of airway inflammation, 
hyper-responsiveness and tissue remodelling). The drug is indicated as an add-on 
treatment for severe eosinophilic asthma, on the basis of its clinical benefit 
in this setting in the placebo-controlled DREAM, MENSA and SIRIUS trials. Based 
on the 52-week, phase II, DREAM study (which assessed varying intravenous 
mepolizumab dosages), intravenous mepolizumab 75 mg every 4 weeks (q4w) and the 
corresponding (recommended) subcutaneous dosage of 100 mg q4w were studied in 
the 32- and 24-week phase III MENSA and SIRIUS trials. In patients aged 
≥12 years with severe eosinophilic asthma in the phase III studies, adding 
subcutaneous mepolizumab 100 mg q4w to current asthma therapy significantly 
reduced the rate of clinically relevant asthma exacerbations and, in those 
dependent on oral glucocorticoids (OCSs) for asthma control, enabled the daily 
OCS dose to be significantly reduced, relative to adding placebo. This 
mepolizumab regimen also significantly improved asthma control, health-related 
quality of life and (in one of the two studies) lung function, and had 
acceptable tolerability (with headache the most common adverse event). In the 
MENSA and SIRIUS extension, COSMOS, mepolizumab provided durable clinical 
benefit over up to 84 weeks' therapy with no new tolerability concerns. Thus, 
mepolizumab is a valuable add-on treatment option for adults and adolescents 
aged ≥12 years who have severe eosinophilic asthma despite optimized standard 
therapies.

DOI: 10.1007/s40259-016-0182-5
PMID: 27311938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. J Thorac Oncol. 2016 Nov;11(11):1846-1855. doi: 10.1016/j.jtho.2016.05.032.
Epub  2016 Jun 14.

A Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Nivolumab versus Docetaxel for Advanced 
Nonsquamous NSCLC Including PD-L1 Testing.

Matter-Walstra K(1), Schwenkglenks M(2), Aebi S(3), Dedes K(4), Diebold J(5), 
Pietrini M(6), Klingbiel D(7), von Moos R(8), Gautschi O(3); Swiss Group for 
Clinical Cancer Research.

Author information:
(1)Swiss Group for Clinical Cancer Research Coordinating Centre, Bern, 
Switzerland; Institute of Pharmaceutical Medicine, University of Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland. Electronic address: Klazien.Matter@unibas.ch.
(2)Institute of Pharmaceutical Medicine, University of Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland.
(3)Swiss Group for Clinical Cancer Research Coordinating Centre, Bern, 
Switzerland; Medical Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, Cantonal 
Hospital Lucerne, Lucerne, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Gynaecology, University Hospital Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland.
(5)Institute of Pathology, Cantonal Hospital Lucerne, Spitalstrasse, CH-6000 
Lucerne, Switzerland.
(6)Medical Controlling, Cantonal Hospital Lucerne, Lucerne, Switzerland.
(7)Swiss Group for Clinical Cancer Research Coordinating Centre, Bern, 
Switzerland.
(8)Swiss Group for Clinical Cancer Research Coordinating Centre, Bern, 
Switzerland; Medical Oncology, Cantonal Hospital Graubünden, Chur, Switzerland.

Comment in
    J Thorac Oncol. 2016 Nov;11(11):1814-1816.

INTRODUCTION: Nivolumab (NIV) was recently approved in several countries for 
patients with pretreated advanced NSCLC. NIV is not cost-effective compared with 
docetaxel (DOC) for the treatment of squamous NSCLC. However, its 
cost-effectiveness for nonsquamous NSCLC and the consequences of programmed 
death ligand 1 (PD-L1) testing are unknown.
METHODS: This literature-based health economic study used CheckMate-057 trial 
data to model the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of NIV versus DOC 
in the Swiss health care setting. The effect of PD-L1 positivity for patient 
selection was assessed.
RESULTS: In the base case model, NIV (mean cost CHF66,208; mean effect 0.69 
quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]) compared with DOC (mean cost CHF37,618; 
mean effect 0.53 QALYs) resulted in an ICER of CHF177,478/QALY gained. Treating 
only patients with PD-L1-positive tumors (threshold ≥10%) with NIV compared with 
treating all patients with DOC produced a base case ICER of CHF124,891/QALY 
gained. Reduced drug price, dose, or treatment duration decreased the ICER 
partly below a willingness-to-pay threshold of CHF100,000/QALY. Health state 
utilities strongly influenced cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with DOC, NIV is not cost-effective for the treatment of 
nonsquamous NSCLC at current prices in the Swiss health care setting. Price 
reduction or PD-L1 testing and selection of patients for NIV on the basis 
of test positivity improves cost-effectiveness compared with DOC.

Copyright © 2016 International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtho.2016.05.032
PMID: 27311996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. J Clin Nurs. 2016 Aug;25(15-16):2189-99. doi: 10.1111/jocn.13256. Epub 2016
Jun  17.

'Close to' a palliative approach: nurses' and care aides' descriptions of caring 
for people with advancing chronic life-limiting conditions.

Reimer-Kirkham S(1), Sawatzky R(1), Roberts D(2), Cochrane M(3), Stajduhar K(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Trinity Western University, Langley, BC, Canada.
(2)Fraser Health, Delta, BC, Canada.
(3)Trinity Western University, Langley, BC, Canada.
(4)School of Nursing and Centre on Aging, University of Victoria, Victoria, BC, 
Canada.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: The purpose of the study was to examine nurses' and nursing 
assistants' perspectives of a palliative approach in a variety of nursing care 
settings that do not specialise in palliative care.
BACKGROUND: Ageing populations worldwide are drawing increasing attention to 
palliative care. In particular, people with advancing chronic life-limiting 
conditions often have unmet needs and may die in acute medical, residential care 
and home health settings without access to palliative care. A palliative 
approach offers an upstream orientation to adopt palliative care principles to 
meet the needs of people with life-limiting chronic conditions, adapt palliative 
care knowledge to other chronic illness conditions, and integrate and 
contextualise this knowledge within the healthcare system (Sawatzky et al. 
2016).
DESIGN: A qualitative study using the method of interpretive description carried 
out by a nursing research-practice collaborative, Initiative for a Palliative 
Approach: Evidence and Leadership (iPANEL).
METHODS: Twenty-five nurses and five nursing assistants from across British 
Columbia, Canada participated in interviews and focus groups. Thematic analysis 
was used to analyse the data.
RESULTS: The overarching theme was that of participants close to a palliative 
approach in that they cared for people who would benefit from a palliative 
approach, they were committed to providing better end-of-life care, and they 
understood palliative approach as an extension of specialised palliative care 
services. Participants varied in their self-reported capacity to integrate a 
palliative approach, as they were influenced by role clarity, interprofessional 
collaboration and knowledge.
CONCLUSIONS: Integration of a palliative approach requires a conceptual shift 
and can be enhanced through interpersonal relationships and communication, role 
clarification and education.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: Nurses care for people with advancing chronic 
life-limiting conditions in a variety of settings who would benefit from a 
palliative approach.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jocn.13256
PMID: 27312279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Bioinformatics. 2016 Oct 1;32(19):3047-8. doi:
10.1093/bioinformatics/btw354.  Epub 2016 Jun 16.

MultiQC: summarize analysis results for multiple tools and samples in a single 
report.

Ewels P(1), Magnusson M(2), Lundin S(3), Käller M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Science for Life Laboratory, 
Stockholm University, Stockholm 106 91, Sweden.
(2)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Science for Life Laboratory, 
Center for Molecular Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Science for Life Laboratory, School of Biotechnology, Division of Gene 
Technology, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden.

MOTIVATION: Fast and accurate quality control is essential for studies involving 
next-generation sequencing data. Whilst numerous tools exist to quantify QC 
metrics, there is no common approach to flexibly integrate these across tools 
and large sample sets. Assessing analysis results across an entire project can 
be time consuming and error prone; batch effects and outlier samples can easily 
be missed in the early stages of analysis.
RESULTS: We present MultiQC, a tool to create a single report visualising output 
from multiple tools across many samples, enabling global trends and biases to be 
quickly identified. MultiQC can plot data from many common bioinformatics tools 
and is built to allow easy extension and customization.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: MultiQC is available with an GNU GPLv3 license 
on GitHub, the Python Package Index and Bioconda. Documentation and example 
reports are available at http://multiqc.info
CONTACT: phil.ewels@scilifelab.se.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btw354
PMCID: PMC5039924
PMID: 27312411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Inj Prev. 2017 Feb;23(1):22-26. doi: 10.1136/injuryprev-2015-041947. Epub
2016  Jun 16.

Cost-benefit analysis of fall injuries prevented by a programme of home 
modifications: a cluster randomised controlled trial.

Keall MD(1), Pierse N(1), Howden-Chapman P(1), Guria J(2), Cunningham CW(3), 
Baker MG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, He Kainga Oranga/Housing and Health Research 
Programme, University of Otago, Wellington, New Zealand.
(2)Economic Consultant Newlands, Wellington, New Zealand.
(3)Te Pūmanawa Hauora Massey University, Wellington, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: Injuries due to falls in the home impose a huge social and economic 
cost on society. We have previously found important safety benefits of home 
modifications such as handrails for steps and stairs, grab rails for bathrooms, 
outside lighting, edging for outside steps and slip-resistant surfacing for 
outside areas such as decks. Here we assess the economic benefits of these 
modifications.
METHODS: Using a single-blinded cluster randomised controlled trial, we analysed 
insurance payments for medically treated home fall injuries as recorded by the 
national injury insurer. The benefits in terms of the value of disability 
adjusted life years (DALYs) averted and social costs of injuries saved were 
extrapolated to a national level and compared with the costs of the 
intervention.
RESULTS: An intention-to-treat analysis was carried out. Injury costs per time 
exposed to the modified homes compared with the unmodified homes showed a 
reduction in the costs of home fall injuries of 33% (95% CI 5% to 49%). The 
social benefits of injuries prevented were estimated to be at least six times 
the costs of the intervention. The benefit-cost ratio can be at least doubled 
for older people and increased by 60% for those with a prior history of fall 
injuries.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first randomised controlled trial to examine the 
benefits of home modification for reducing fall injury costs in the general 
population. The results show a convincing economic justification for undertaking 
relatively low-cost home repairs and installing safety features to prevent 
falls.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ACTRN12609000779279.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/injuryprev-2015-041947
PMID: 27312961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Genes Dev. 2016 Jun 15;30(12):1409-22. doi: 10.1101/gad.282277.116. Epub
2016  Jun 16.

Tissue-specific down-regulation of S-adenosyl-homocysteine via suppression of 
dAhcyL1/dAhcyL2 extends health span and life span in Drosophila.

Parkhitko AA(1), Binari R(2), Zhang N(3), Asara JM(4), Demontis F(5), Perrimon 
N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA;
(2)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA; Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA;
(3)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA; MOE Key Laboratory of Protein Sciences, Department of Pharmacology, School 
of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China;
(4)Division of Signal Transduction, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA; Department of 
Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA;
(5)Department of Developmental Neurobiology, Division of Developmental Biology, 
St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.

Aging is a risk factor for many human pathologies and is characterized by 
extensive metabolic changes. Using targeted high-throughput metabolite profiling 
in Drosophila melanogaster at different ages, we demonstrate that methionine 
metabolism changes strikingly during aging. Methionine generates the methyl 
donor S-adenosyl-methionine (SAM), which is converted via methylation to 
S-adenosyl-homocysteine (SAH), which accumulates during aging. A targeted RNAi 
screen against methionine pathway components revealed significant life span 
extension in response to down-regulation of two noncanonical Drosophila homologs 
of the SAH hydrolase Ahcy (S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine hydrolase [SAHH[), 
CG9977/dAhcyL1 and Ahcy89E/CG8956/dAhcyL2, which act as dominant-negative 
regulators of canonical AHCY. Importantly, tissue-specific down-regulation of 
dAhcyL1/L2 in the brain and intestine extends health and life span. Furthermore, 
metabolomic analysis of dAhcyL1-deficient flies revealed its effect on 
age-dependent metabolic reprogramming and H3K4 methylation. Altogether, 
reprogramming of methionine metabolism in young flies and suppression of 
age-dependent SAH accumulation lead to increased life span. These studies 
highlight the role of noncanonical Ahcy enzymes as determinants of healthy aging 
and longevity.

© 2016 Parkhitko et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.

DOI: 10.1101/gad.282277.116
PMCID: PMC4926864
PMID: 27313316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. J Phys Ther Sci. 2016 May;28(5):1418-21. doi: 10.1589/jpts.28.1418. Epub
2016  May 31.

Effects of muscle extension strength exercise on trunk muscle strength and 
stability of patients with lumbar herniated nucleus pulposus.

Jeon K(1), Kim T(2), Lee SH(2).

Author information:
(1)Sport Science Institute, Incheon National University, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Physical Education, College of Education, Hankuk University of 
Foreign Studies, Republic of Korea.

[Purpose] The purpose of this study was to provide the data for constructing an 
integrated exercise program to help restore muscle strength and stability 
through extension strength exercise in adult females with lumbar disc 
herniation. [Subjects and Methods] An 8-week exercise program for lumbar muscle 
extension strength and stabilization was performed by 26 females older than 20 
with lumbar disc herniation findings. [Results] Significant differences were 
found in lumbar extension muscle strength at every angle of lumbar flexion after 
participation in the 8-week stabilization exercise program; but there was no 
significant difference in the weight distribution index. [Conclusion] An 
integrated exercise program aiming to strengthen lumbar spine muscles, reduce 
pain and stabilize the trunk can help to maintain muscle strength and balance. 
In addition, improvement in extension strength is expected to be helpful in 
daily life by securing the range of joint motion and improving the strength and 
stability.

DOI: 10.1589/jpts.28.1418
PMCID: PMC4905881
PMID: 27313342


620. Behav Neurol. 2016;2016:7576292. doi: 10.1155/2016/7576292. Epub 2016 Jun 5.

Pain in Neurodegenerative Disease: Current Knowledge and Future Perspectives.

de Tommaso M(1), Arendt-Nielsen L(2), Defrin R(3), Kunz M(4), Pickering G(5), 
Valeriani M(6).

Author information:
(1)Neurophysiopathology of Pain Section, SMBNOS Department, Bari Aldo Moro 
University, Bari, Italy.
(2)Center for Sensory-Motor Interaction, Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark.
(3)Department of Physical Therapy, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel-Aviv 
University, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
(4)Department of General Practice, Section Gerontology, University Medical 
Center Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands.
(5)CHU Clermont-Ferrand, Centre de Pharmacologie Clinique, Clermont-Ferrand, 
France; Inserm, CIC 1405, Neurodol 1107, 63003 Clermont-Ferrand, France.
(6)Center for Sensory-Motor Interaction, Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark; 
Division of Neurology, Ospedale Pediatrico Bambino Gesù, IRCCS, Rome, Italy.

Neurodegenerative diseases are going to increase as the life expectancy is 
getting longer. The management of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) and other dementias, Parkinson's disease (PD) and PD related 
disorders, motor neuron diseases (MND), Huntington's disease (HD), 
spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA), and spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), is mainly 
addressed to motor and cognitive impairment, with special care to vital 
functions as breathing and feeding. Many of these patients complain of painful 
symptoms though their origin is variable, and their presence is frequently not 
considered in the treatment guidelines, leaving their management to the decision 
