of warfarin is a cost-effective strategy to improve outcomes of patients with AF 
treated with warfarin in the United Kingdom and in Sweden.

DOI: 10.1038/tpj.2016.41
PMID: 27272045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. J Intern Med. 2016 Oct;280(4):350-8. doi: 10.1111/joim.12520. Epub 2016 Jun
6.

HIV infection and bone disease.

Compston J(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept of Medicine, Cambridge Biomedical Campus Francis Crick Ave, Cambridge 
CB2 0SL, UK. jec1001@cam.ac.uk.

The success of antiretroviral therapy in treating HIV infection has greatly 
prolonged life expectancy in affected individuals, transforming the disease into 
a chronic condition. A number of HIV-associated non-AIDS comorbidities have 
emerged in the ageing HIV-infected population, including osteoporosis and 
increased risk of fracture. The pathogenesis of fracture is multifactorial with 
contributions from both traditional and HIV-specific risk factors. Significant 
bone loss occurs on initiation of antiretroviral therapy but stabilizes on 
long-term therapy. Fracture risk assessment should be performed in HIV-infected 
individuals and bone mineral density measured when indicated. Lifestyle measures 
to optimize bone health should be advised and, in individuals at high risk of 
fracture, treatment with bisphosphonates considered.

© 2016 The Association for the Publication of the Journal of Internal Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/joim.12520
PMID: 27272530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Anticancer Res. 2016 Jun;36(6):3161-7.

Expansive Extracranial Growth of Intracranial Meningioma in Neurofibromatosis 
Type 2.

Friedrich RE(1), Hagel C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Craniomaxillofacial Surgery, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, University of Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany rfriedrich@uke.de.
(2)Institute of Neuropathology, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
University of Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany.

The purpose of this report is to detail three rare cases of neurofibromatosis 
type 2 (NF2) with symptomatic extracranial extension of intracranial meningioma. 
We present ocular findings, imaging techniques applied, pathological findings of 
the space-occupying lesions, and therapy. One of these patients, the daughter of 
one of the other individuals, presented with a large neck mass, but no 
surgically treatable findings associated with the external growth of the 
meningioma. The patients complained of symptoms associated with the extracranial 
portion of the intracranial meningioma, rather than of the intracranial 
primaries. However, facial and neck surgical care is very limited in patients 
with such advanced-stage tumours. The prolongation of life was unquestionably 
predominantly determined by the behaviour of the intracranial tumour. Head and 
neck surgeons should be aware of the rare possibility that solid tumours of this 
region could be extracranial-extending meningioma in an inherited disease.

Copyright© 2016 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. John G. 
Delinassios), All rights reserved.

PMID: 27272842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Pharmacoeconomics. 2016 Nov;34(11):1101-1110. doi:
10.1007/s40273-016-0419-7.

The Clinical and Cost Effectiveness of Apremilast for Treating Active Psoriatic 
Arthritis: A Critique of the Evidence.

Sideris E(1), Corbett M(2), Palmer S(3), Woolacott N(2), Bojke L(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington, York, YO10 5DD, 
UK. Eleftherios.sideris@york.ac.uk.
(2)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, York, UK.
(3)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington, York, YO10 5DD, 
UK.

As part of the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) 
single technology appraisal (STA) process, the manufacturer of apremilast was 
invited to submit evidence for its clinical and cost effectiveness for the 
treatment of active psoriatic arthritis (PsA) for whom disease-modifying 
anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) have been inadequately effective, not tolerated or 
contraindicated. The Centre for Reviews and Dissemination and Centre for Health 
Economics at the University of York were commissioned to act as the independent 
Evidence Review Group (ERG). This paper provides a description of the ERG review 
of the company's submission, the ERG report and submission and summarises the 
NICE Appraisal Committee's subsequent guidance (December 2015). In the company's 
initial submission, the base-case analysis resulted in an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £14,683 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
gained for the sequence including apremilast (positioned before tumour necrosis 
factor [TNF]-α inhibitors) versus a comparator sequence without apremilast. 
However, the ERG considered that the base-case sequence proposed by the company 
represented a limited set of potentially relevant treatment sequences and 
positions for apremilast. The company's base-case results were therefore not a 
sufficient basis to inform the most efficient use and position of apremilast. 
The exploratory ERG analyses indicated that apremilast is more effective (i.e. 
produces higher health gains) when positioned after TNF-α inhibitor therapies. 
Furthermore, assumptions made regarding a potential beneficial effect of 
apremilast on long-term Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) progression, which 
cannot be substantiated, have a very significant impact on results. The NICE 
Appraisal Committee (AC), when taking into account their preferred assumptions 
for HAQ progression for patients on treatment with apremilast, placebo response 
and monitoring costs for apremilast, concluded that the addition of apremilast 
resulted in cost savings but also a QALY loss. These cost savings were not high 
enough to compensate for the clinical effectiveness that would be lost. The AC 
thus decided that apremilast alone or in combination with DMARD therapy is not 
recommended for treating adults with active PsA that has not responded to prior 
DMARD therapy, or where such therapy is not tolerated.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-016-0419-7
PMID: 27272887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Z Orthop Unfall. 2016 Aug;154(4):364-9. doi: 10.1055/s-0042-105160. Epub
2016  Jun 7.

[Pathological Fractures of the Humerus: Experience with 76 Cases in a 
Musculoskeletal Oncology Centre].

[Article in German]

Toepfer A(1), Lenze U(2), Pohlig F(2), Eisenhart-Rothe Rv(2), Gerdesmeyer L(3), 
Kirchhoff C(4), Harrasser N(2).

Author information:
(1)Schön Klinik Harlaching.
(2)Klinik und Poliklinik für Orthopädie und Sportorthopädie, Klinikum rechts der 
Isar der Technischen Universität München.
(3)Orthopädie, Universitätsklinikum Schleswig-Holstein Campus Kiel.
(4)Klinik und Poliklinik für Unfallchirurgie, Klinikum rechts der Isar der 
Technischen Universität München.

BACKGROUND: Pathological fractures can be caused by numerous local and systemic 
processes. The humerus is one of the commonest sites of pathological, 
tumour-associated fractures.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a retrospective study, 76 cases of pathological 
fractures of the humerus were analysed; 57 (75 %) were caused by a malignant 
disease, 19 fractures were associated with benign musculoskeletal disorders 
(25 %). The grade of the tumour, treatment strategy, intra- and postoperative 
complications, and survival rates in malignant tumours were documented.
RESULTS: Two thirds of fractures were localised in the proximal third of the 
humerus. In 59 % of patients, malignant lesions were metastases (mainly renal 
cell, breast, lung and prostate cancer), followed by haemato-oncological 
diseases and primary sarcomas. Most benign tumours were simple bone cysts and 
enchondromas. A total of 70 patients were treated surgically and only 6 
conservatively. Most malignant tumours were treated with compound osteosynthesis 
and tumour prostheses. Complications in both groups were rare.
CONCLUSION: The demographic transition - with an increasing number of 
malignancies on the one hand and improved life expectancy under modern, adjuvant 
therapies on the other - will become a challenge in the treatment of 
pathological fractures of the humerus for a variety of disciplines.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0042-105160
PMID: 27273274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Heredity (Edinb). 2016 Oct;117(4):241-50. doi: 10.1038/hdy.2016.29. Epub
2016  Jun 8.

Life-history traits and effective population size in species with overlapping 
generations revisited: the importance of adult mortality.

Waples RS(1).

Author information:
(1)NOAA Fisheries, Northwest Fisheries Science Center, Seattle, WA, USA.

The relationship between life-history traits and the key eco-evolutionary 
parameters effective population size (Ne) and Ne/N is revisited for iteroparous 
species with overlapping generations, with a focus on the annual rate of adult 
mortality (d). Analytical methods based on populations with arbitrarily long 
adult lifespans are used to evaluate the influence of d on Ne, Ne/N and the 
factors that determine these parameters: adult abundance (N), generation length 
(T), age at maturity (α), the ratio of variance to mean reproductive success in 
one season by individuals of the same age (φ) and lifetime variance in 
reproductive success of individuals in a cohort (Vk•). Although the resulting 
estimators of N, T and Vk• are upwardly biased for species with short adult 
lifespans, the estimate of Ne/N is largely unbiased because biases in T are 
compensated for by biases in Vk• and N. For the first time, the contrasting 
effects of T and Vk• on Ne and Ne/N are jointly considered with respect to d and 
φ. A simple function of d and α based on the assumption of constant vital rates 
is shown to be a robust predictor (R(2)=0.78) of Ne/N in an empirical data set 
of life tables for 63 animal and plant species with diverse life histories. 
Results presented here should provide important context for interpreting the 
surge of genetically based estimates of Ne that has been fueled by the genomics 
revolution.

DOI: 10.1038/hdy.2016.29
PMCID: PMC5026752
PMID: 27273324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Mol Cytogenet. 2016 Jun 6;9:44. doi: 10.1186/s13039-016-0254-8. eCollection 
2016.

Application of a modified drop method for high-resolution pachytene chromosome 
spreads in two Phalaenopsis species.

Kuo YT(1), Hsu HL(1), Yeh CH(2), Chang SB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, National Cheng Kung University, No.1, University 
Road, Tainan City, 701 Taiwan.
(2)Taoyuan District Agricultural Research and Extension Station, Council of 
Agriculture, Executive Yuan, 139, Sec. 2, Dongfu Rd., Houzhuang, Sinwu Dist., 
Taoyuan City, 32745 Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Preparation of good chromosome spreads without cytoplasmic 
contamination is the crucial step in cytogenetic mapping. To date, cytogenetic 
research in the Orchidaceae family has been carried out solely on mitotic 
metaphase chromosomes. Well-spread meiotic pachytene chromosomes can provide 
higher resolution and fine detail for analysis of chromosomal structure and are 
also beneficial for chromosomal FISH (fluorescence in situ hybridization) 
mapping. However, an adequate method for the preparation of meiotic pachytene 
chromosomes in orchid species has not yet been reported.
RESULTS: Two Taiwanese native Phalaenopsis species were selected to test the 
modified drop method for preparation of meiotic pachytene chromosomes from 
pollinia. In this modified method, pollinia were ground and treated with an 
enzyme mixture to completely remove cell walls. Protoplasts were resuspended in 
ethanol/glacial acetic acid and dropped onto a wet inclined slide of 30° from a 
height of 0.5 m. The sample was then flowed down the inclined plane to spread 
the chromosomes. Hundreds of pachytene chromosomes with little to no cytoplasmic 
contamination were well spread on each slide. We also showed that the resolution 
of 45S rDNA-containing chromosomes at the pachytene stage was up to 20 times 
higher than that at metaphase. Slides prepared following this modified drop 
method were amenable to FISH mapping of both 45S and 5S rDNA on pachytene 
chromosomes and, after FISH, the chromosomal structure remained intact for 
further analysis.
CONCLUSION: This modified drop method is suitable for pachytene spreads from 
pollinia of Phalaenopsis orchids. The large number and high-resolution pachytene 
spreads, with little or no cytoplasmic contamination, prepared by the modified 
drop method could be used for FISH mapping of DNA fragments to accelerate the 
integration of cytogenetic and molecular research in Phalaenopsis orchids.

DOI: 10.1186/s13039-016-0254-8
PMCID: PMC4893830
PMID: 27275186


519. Oncotarget. 2016 Aug 9;7(32):50997-51011. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.9802.

SSX2 regulates focal adhesion but does not drive the epithelial to mesenchymal 
transition in prostate cancer.

Bloom JE(1), McNeel DG(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA.
(2)University of Wisconsin Carbone Cancer Center, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, WI, USA.

Prostate cancer is the most commonly diagnosed malignancy for men in the United 
States. Metastatic prostate cancer, the lethal form of the disease, has a life 
expectancy of approximately five years. Identification of factors associated 
with this transition to metastatic disease is crucial for future therapies. One 
such factor is the SSX gene family, a family of cancer/testis antigens (CTA) 
transcription factors which have been shown to be aberrantly expressed in other 
cancers and associated with the epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT). We 
have previously shown that SSX expression in prostate cancers was restricted to 
metastatic tissue and not primary tumors. In this study, we have identified SSX2 
as the predominant SSX family member expressed in prostate cancer, and found its 
expression in the peripheral blood of 19 of 54 (35%) prostate cancer patients, 
with expression restricted to circulating tumor cells, and in 7 of 15 (47%) 
metastatic cDNA samples. Further, we examined SSX2 function in prostate cancer 
through knockdown and overexpression in prostate cancer cell lines. While 
overexpression had little effect on morphology or gene transcript changes, 
knockdown of SSX2 resulted in an epithelial morphology, increased cell 
proliferation, increased expression of genes involved in focal adhesion, 
decreased anchorage independent growth, increased invasion, and increased 
tumorigenicity in vivo. We conclude from these findings that SSX2 expression in 
prostate cancer is not a driver of EMT, but is involved in processes associated 
with EMT including loss of focal adhesion that may be related to tumor cell 
dissemination.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.9802
PMCID: PMC5239454
PMID: 27276714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS The authors declare no 
competing financial interests.


520. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2016 Jul;158(1):51-57. doi:
10.1007/s10549-016-3822-z.  Epub 2016 Jun 8.

Palbociclib as a first-line treatment in oestrogen receptor-positive, 
HER2-negative, advanced breast cancer not cost-effective with current pricing: a 
health economic analysis of the Swiss Group for Clinical Cancer Research (SAKK).

Matter-Walstra K(1)(2), Ruhstaller T(3)(4), Klingbiel D(3), Schwenkglenks M(5), 
Dedes KJ(3)(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmaceutical Medicine (ECPM), University Basel, 
Klingelbergstrasse 61, 4056, Basel, Switzerland. klazien.matter@unibas.ch.
(2)Swiss Group of Clinical Cancer Research (SAKK) Coordinating Centre, 
Effingerstrasse 40, 3008, Bern, Switzerland. klazien.matter@unibas.ch.
(3)Swiss Group of Clinical Cancer Research (SAKK) Coordinating Centre, 
Effingerstrasse 40, 3008, Bern, Switzerland.
(4)Breast Centre, Kantonsspital St. Gallen, Rorschacherstrasse 95, 9007, 
St.Gallen, Switzerland.
(5)Institute of Pharmaceutical Medicine (ECPM), University Basel, 
Klingelbergstrasse 61, 4056, Basel, Switzerland.
(6)Department of Gynaecology, University Hospital Zürich, Frauenklinikstrasse 
10, 8091, Zurich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2017 Jun;163(3):635.

Endocrine therapy continues to be the optimal systemic treatment for metastatic 
ER(+)HER2(-) breast cancer. The CDK4/6 inhibitor palbociclib combined with 
letrozole has recently been shown to significantly improve progression-free 
survival. Here we examined the cost-effectiveness of this regimen for the Swiss 
healthcare system. A Markov cohort simulation based on the PALOMA-1 trial (Finn 
et al. in Lancet Oncol 16:25-35, 2015) was used as the clinical course. Input 
parameters were based on summary trial data. Costs were assessed from the Swiss 
healthcare system perspective. Adding palbociclib to letrozole (PALLET) compared 
to letrozole monotherapy was estimated to cost an additional CHF342,440 and gain 
1.14 quality-adjusted life years, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) of CHF301,227/QALY gained. In univariate sensitivity analyses, no 
tested variation in key parameters resulted in an ICER below a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of CHF100,000/QALY. PALLET had a 0 % probability of 
being cost-effective in probabilistic sensitivity analyses. Lowering PALLET's 
price by 75 % resulted in an ICER of CHF73,995/QALY and a 73 % probability of 
being cost-effective. At current prices, PALLET would cost the Swiss healthcare 
system an additional CHF155 million/year. Palbociclib plus letrozole cannot be 
considered cost-effective for the first-line treatment of patients with 
metastatic breast cancer in the Swiss healthcare system.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-016-3822-z
PMID: 27277747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Pharmacoeconomics. 2016 Oct;34(10):981-92. doi: 10.1007/s40273-016-0418-8.

Daclatasvir for the Treatment of Chronic Hepatitis C: A Critique of the Clinical 
and Economic Evidence.

Llewellyn A(1), Faria R(2), Woods B(2), Simmonds M(3), Lomas J(2), Woolacott 
N(3), Griffin S(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination (CRD), University of York, York, YO10 
5DD, UK. alexis.llewellyn@york.ac.uk.
(2)Centre for Health Economics (CHE), University of York, York, UK.
(3)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination (CRD), University of York, York, YO10 
5DD, UK.

The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) invited the 
manufacturer of daclatasvir (Bristol-Myers Squibb) to submit clinical and 
cost-effectiveness evidence for daclatasvir in combination with other medicinal 
products within its licensed indication for the treatment of chronic hepatitis 
C, as part of the Institute's single technology appraisal process. The Centre 
for Reviews and Dissemination and Centre for Health Economics at the University 
of York were commissioned to act as the independent Evidence Review Group (ERG). 
This article presents the ERG's critical review of the evidence presented in the 
company submission in the context of a description of the company submission, 
and the resulting NICE guidance. The main clinical effectiveness data for 
daclatasvir in combination with sofosbuvir (daclatasvir + sofosbuvir) were 
derived from two uncontrolled open-label trials. Among patients with genotype 1 
infection, 98-100 % of patients had a sustained virologic response at week 12 
(SVR12), overall. Among genotype 3 patients, between 85 and 100 % had SVR12 
across patient populations and regimens. The main evidence for 
daclatasvir + pegylated interferon-α and ribavirin (PR) came from one randomised 
controlled trial comparing daclatasvir + PR with PR in patients with genotype 4. 
This found an SVR12 rate of 82 % in previously untreated patients. Serious 
adverse event rates associated with daclatasvir were low. The lack of 
comparative trial evidence for daclatasvir + sofosbuvir and many of the 
comparators defined in the NICE scope meant that established methods for 
comparing interventions either directly via head-to-head trial comparisons or 
via adjusted indirect comparisons were not feasible. Comparisons of SVR rates 
were therefore largely based on unadjusted estimates drawn from individual trial 
arms and subgroups of individual trial arms. The ERG concluded that, despite 
limited evidence, daclatasvir in combination with other treatments appeared to 
be associated with a high SVR rate. Daclatasvir + sofosbuvir was unlikely to be 
inferior to comparator treatments in genotype 1 patients; but, due to limited 
evidence, the relative efficacy of daclatasvir and other treatments in genotype 
3 and 4 patients or patients with compensated cirrhosis was uncertain. The 
economic evaluation compared daclatasvir + sofosbuvir and daclatasvir + PR with 
a wide range of NICE-approved treatments for hepatitis C. The company submission 
focused on a series of subgroups defined by disease severity (METAVIR fibrosis 
stage F3, compensated cirrhosis), genotype and treatment history. In the 
cost-effectiveness analysis, daclatasvir-containing regimens were cost effective 
at a £20,000-£30,000 per QALY threshold in the following F3 populations: 
genotype 1 treatment naïve (Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
[ICER] = £19,739/QALY) and treatment experienced (£15,687/QALY) and genotypes 1, 
3 and 4 interferon ineligible or intolerant (£5906-£9607/QALY depending on 
subgroup). In patients with cirrhosis, daclatasvir-containing regimens were not 
cost effective. The ERG found the company's economic analyses to be highly 
uncertain and in places biased. However, the ERG found that 
daclatasvir-containing regimens were cost effective in certain populations with 
significant fibrosis, and following new analyses by the company after a price 
reduction, in certain populations with cirrhosis, including patients who were 
not eligible for or who were intolerant to interferon therapy. The NICE 
Appraisal Committee's preliminary recommendation was that 
daclatasvir + sofosbuvir should be available as an option in genotype 1 and 4 
patients with significant fibrosis but without cirrhosis, who had either been 
treated previously or were ineligible or intolerant to interferon. In response 
to the preliminary recommendation, the manufacturer submitted additional 
information including comparator SVR rates and a revised confidential price. 
Following this, the Committee expanded its original recommendation in its Final 
Appraisal Determination. The recommendation was expanded to include 
daclatasvir + sofosbuvir as an option for patients with significant fibrosis but 
without cirrhosis (in previously untreated patients with genotype 1, and 
genotype 3 patients ineligible or intolerant to interferon) and genotype 1, 3 
and 4 cirrhotic patients who were ineligible or intolerant to interferon. 
Daclatasvir + PR was also recommended as an option for genotype 4 patients who 
had significant fibrosis or compensated cirrhosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-016-0418-8
PMID: 27278217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. World J Surg Oncol. 2016 Jun 8;14(1):157. doi: 10.1186/s12957-016-0909-2.

Rare occurrence of metastasis from lung cancer to the anus: case report and 
review of the literature.

Al-Tarakji M(1), Feilchenfeldt J(2), Haidar A(3), Szabados L(4), Abdelaziem 
S(1), Sayed A(1), Toro A(5), Di Carlo I(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Hamad General Hospital, Al Rayyan Road, 3050, Doha, 
Qatar.
(2)National Center for Cancer Care and Research, Doha, Qatar.
(3)Department of Pathology, Hamad General Hospital, Doha, Qatar.
(4)PET/CT Center, Clinical Imaging Department, Hamad General Hospital, Doha, 
Qatar.
(5)Department of Surgery, Patti Hospital, Messina, Italy.
(6)Department of Surgery, Hamad General Hospital, Al Rayyan Road, 3050, Doha, 
Qatar. idicarlo@unict.it.
(7)Department of Surgical Sciences and Advanced Technologies, "G.F. Ingrassia" 
University of Catania, Catania, Italy. idicarlo@unict.it.

BACKGROUND: Anal metastases from lung cancer are infrequent, and there are only 
10 published cases. Life expectancy is no longer than 1 year after diagnosis 
because of the typically advanced stage of disease. Treatment, which is 
typically inefficient, is administered with the intent to cure or avoid local 
complications.
CASE PRESENTATION: We report a case of a patient with non-small cell lung cancer 
presenting with perianal metastasis mimicking an abscess.
CONCLUSIONS: Because perianal masses may be misdiagnosed, patients with lung and 
other cancers should be evaluated for metastatic disease.

DOI: 10.1186/s12957-016-0909-2
PMCID: PMC4898473
PMID: 27278524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. J Psychiatr Ment Health Nurs. 2016 Jun;23(5):247-54. doi: 10.1111/jpm.12308.
 Epub 2016 Jun 9.

Preparing non-government organization workers to conduct health checks for 
people with serious mental illness in regional Australia.

Jones M(1), Kruger M(1), Walsh SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rural Health, University of South Australia, Whyalla, SA, 
Australia.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: People diagnosed with schizophrenia or bipolar 
disorder have a life expectancy 10-15 years less than the general population. In 
rural and remote Australia, there is a shortage of health care professionals to 
provide physical health care for people living with a serious mental illness 
(SMI). A large proportion of the care for people living with a SMI is provided 
by non-government organizations (NGOs), often employing workers without formal 
qualifications. There has been minimal research regarding the experiences of NGO 
workers who have been trained to complete health checks to help people living 
with SMI to access primary care services. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING 
KNOWLEDGE?: This is the first study to examine the experiences of preparing NGO 
workers to use the health improvement profile (HIP) to support the physical 
health of people with SMI. It builds on previous studies that examined the use 
of the HIP by trained/qualified staff. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: 
This study highlights that NGO employees may have an important role in helping 
people with a SMI to address their physical health. Engaging lay workers to use 
the HIP increases their awareness of the importance of providing good physical 
health care for people with SMI. The use of a tool, such as the HIP, prepares 
NGO workers to support the physical health needs and enables them to describe 
meaningful improvements in the health of people with a SMI.
ABSTRACT: Background The life expectancy of people living with a serious mental 
illness (SMI) is up to 10-15 years less than the general population. They 
experience difficulties in accessing timely and appropriate physical health 
care. People with SMI living in regional Australia experience additional 
barriers to accessing services. This is in part due to the difficulties 
associated with recruiting and retaining health professionals in regional 
Australia. Aim To explore the regional non-government organization (NGO) 
workforce views of using a physical health care check list - the health 
improvement profile (HIP) - with people with a SMI. Gain insights into the 
workers' experiences of using the HIP. Understand which aspects of the HIP 
workers perceived as being most and least helpful. Learn how the HIP and the 
training program could be modified to better support its application in regional 
Australia. Method A focus group using a semi-structured interview was conducted 
with seven NGO employees who had been trained to use the HIP and subsequently 
used the HIP in their everyday work with patients. A mental health nurse (MHN) 
and a Psychology graduate working for the University of South Australia 
Department of Rural Health conducted the focus group. Results Using thematic 
analysis, the focus group discussion generated four main themes: taking control; 
accessing services; guiding my conversation; and working with others. The 
overall meta-theme was that lay workers can work effectively to address physical 
health problems in SMI patients. Conclusion Our observations highlight the 
important role lay workers in regional Australia have in helping people with SMI 
to address their physical health needs. They have an opportunity to extend their 
role in parts of the world where it is difficult to recruit MHNs.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jpm.12308
PMID: 27278754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2016 Nov;70(11):1088-1095. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2016-207378. Epub 2016 Jun 8.

Effects of new urban motorway infrastructure on road traffic accidents in the 
local area: a retrospective longitudinal study in Scotland.

Olsen JR(1), Mitchell R(1), Mackay DF(2), Humphreys DK(3), Ogilvie D(4); M74 
study team.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research on Environment, Society and Health, Institute of Health 
and Wellbeing, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.
(2)Institute of Health and Wellbeing, College of Medical, Veterinary and Life 
Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.
(3)Department of Social Policy and Intervention, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
Oxfordshire, UK.
(4)MRC Epidemiology Unit, UKCRC Centre for Diet and Activity Research (CEDAR), 
School of Clinical Medicine, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, 
UK.

BACKGROUND: The M74 motorway extension, Glasgow, opened in June 2011. One 
justification for construction was an expectation that it would reduce road 
traffic accidents (RTAs) on local non-motorway roads. This study evaluated the 
impact of the extension on the number of RTAs, stratifying by accident severity.
METHODS: Data for the period 1997-2014 were extracted from a UK database of 
reported RTAs involving a personal injury. RTA severity was defined by the level 
of injury: minor, severe or fatal. RTAs were assigned to (1) the local area 
surrounding the motorway extension, (2) a comparator area surrounding an 
existing motorway or (3) a control area elsewhere in the conurbation. 
Interrupted time-series regression with autoregressive integrated moving average 
(ARIMA) errors was used to determine longitudinal between-area differences in 
change in the number of RTAs, which might indicate an intervention effect.
RESULTS: Glasgow and surrounding local authorities saw a 50.6% reduction in 
annual RTAs (n: 5901 to 2914) between 1997 and 2014. In the intervention area, 
the number of recorded RTAs decreased by 50.7% (n: 758 to 374), and that of 
fatal/severe RTAs by 57.4% (n: 129 to 55), with similar reductions in the 
comparator/control areas. The interrupted time-series analysis showed no 
significant between-area differences in temporal trends. The reduction of 
pedestrian casualties was attenuated in the intervention area relative to 
Glasgow and surrounding authorities.
CONCLUSIONS: Reduction in RTAs was not associated with the motorway extension. 
Our findings suggest that in planning future investment, it should not be taken 
for granted that new road infrastructure alone will reduce RTAs in local areas. 
Urbanisation is proceeding rapidly worldwide, and evidence of infrastructure 
changes is lacking; this novel study provides important findings for future 
developments.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2016-207378
PMCID: PMC5541177
PMID: 27279082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


525. Ann Transplant. 2016 Jun 9;21:360-7. doi: 10.12659/aot.896708.

Motivations for Deceased Organ Donation Among Volunteers in China: A Qualitative 
Research Study.

Yin Z(1), Liu S(2), Yan J(3), Liu J(3).

Author information:
(1)Surgical Ward, Tiantan Hospital Affiliated to Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China (mainland).
(2)College of Nursing and Public Health, Adelphi University, Garden City, NY, 
USA.
(3)Research Center of Chinese Health Ministry on Transplantation Medicine 
Engineering and Technology, The Third Affiliated Hospital, Central South 
University, Nursing School of Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, China 
(mainland).

BACKGROUND To align with guiding principles on human organ and tissue 
transplantation published by the World Health Organization (WHO), the Red Cross 
Society of China (RCSC) launched a new nationwide organ donation program in 2010 
to recruit organ donation volunteers. Despite severe shortage of donated organs, 
there is a very low rate of volunteering for organ donation among the Chinese 
population (only 0.03 donors per million population) in the national program. 
Motivating organ donation is the key to the success of organ transplantation in 
China. MATERIAL AND METHODS Semi-structured 45- to 60-min interviews were 
conducted among 34 volunteers. Data analysis was performed with Nvivo 8.0 
software. RESULTS Six motivations for organ donation were identified: helping 
others/altruism, fulfilling long-cherished wishes, reducing the burdens, making 
the best use of everything, giving back to society, and life extension. Factors 
affecting the motivation of organ donation among volunteers in China included 
traditional values, personal experiences, role model effect, family support, and 
problems in the donation system. Possible strategies to improve organ donation 
included fostering a scientific concept of the body and death, focusing donation 
promotion efforts on certain groups, and simplifying the process of organ 
donation. CONCLUSIONS There are multiple reasons for Chinese people to register 
for organ donation, with helping others as the central motivation.

DOI: 10.12659/aot.896708
PMID: 27279558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Cardiovasc Diagn Ther. 2016 Jun;6(3):267-73. doi: 10.21037/cdt.2015.12.12.

Emergent percutaneous coronary intervention for acute myocardial infarction in 
patients with mirror dextrocardia: case reports and brief review.

He J(1), Sun Y(1), Zhang X(1), Wang Y(1), Zhong J(1), Lin F(1), Liu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, First Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical 
University, Harbin 150001, China.

Mirror-image dextrocardia is a rare congenital abnormality with a life 
expectancy and risk of myocardial infarction similar to the normal population. 
Although there have been few case reports of emergent percutaneous coronary 
intervention (PCI) for acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in mirror-image 
dextrocardia, physicians, especially general and interventional cardiologists 
encounter problems in the diagnosis and treatment of AMI in these patients. In 
this paper, we report our experience with two cases of emergent transradial PCI 
for AMI in patients with the mirror-image dextrocardia. Subsequently, we 
summarize clinical features, electrocardiograph characteristic, approach to 
emergent PCI based on a review of the literature.

DOI: 10.21037/cdt.2015.12.12
PMCID: PMC4880747
PMID: 27280091

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors have no 
conflicts of interest to declare.


527. Ann Surg. 2017 Jun;265(6):1235-1240. doi: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000001827.

Abdominal Wall Reconstruction for Incisional Hernia Optimizes Truncal Function 
and Quality of Life: A Prospective Controlled Study.

Jensen KK(1), Munim K, Kjaer M, Jorgensen LN.

Author information:
(1)*Digestive Disease Center, Bispebjerg Hospital, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen NV, Denmark †Department of Radiology, Bispebjerg Hospital, Copenhagen 
NV, Denmark ‡Department of Sports Medicine, Department of Orthopedic Surgery, 
Bispebjerg Hospital and Centre of Healthy Aging, Faculty of Health and Medical 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen NV, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to examine abdominal wall function in 
patients undergoing abdominal wall reconstruction (AWR) for incisional hernia.
BACKGROUND: The literature on abdominal wall function in patients with 
incisional hernia is sparse. It has been suggested that AWR leads to improvement 
in function, but it is unknown whether this is specific to the abdominal wall or 
due to an improvement in overall physical fitness.
METHODS: We performed a prospective case-control study of 18 consecutive 
patients with large incisional hernia undergoing AWR with linea alba 
restoration. Truncal flexion and extension strength, hand grip strength, leg 
extension power, and quality of life (SF-36 and Carolinas Comfort Scale) were 
assessed preoperatively and 1 year postoperatively. Patients were compared with 
a control group of patients with an intact abdominal wall undergoing colorectal 
resection (n = 18). The study was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov 
(NCT02011048).
RESULTS: Compared with preoperative measurements, 1-year follow-up after AWR 
demonstrated an increase of both truncal flexion strength (from mean 505.6 N to 
572.3 N, P < 0.001) and truncal extension strength (from 556.7 to 606.0 N, P = 
0.005). There was no significant change of either hand grip strength or leg 
extension power. After AWR, the physical component of overall quality of life 
improved, whereas the mental component score remained unchanged. In the control 
group, surgery resulted in a decrease in both truncal flexion and truncal 
extension.
CONCLUSIONS: AWR for incisional hernia specifically improved long-term abdominal 
wall muscular function and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000001827
PMID: 27280505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. JAMA Ophthalmol. 2016 Aug 1;134(8):888-96. doi: 
10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2016.1669.

Cost-effectiveness of Aflibercept, Bevacizumab, and Ranibizumab for Diabetic 
Macular Edema Treatment: Analysis From the Diabetic Retinopathy Clinical 
Research Network Comparative Effectiveness Trial.

Ross EL(1), Hutton DW(2), Stein JD(3), Bressler NM(4), Jampol LM(5), Glassman 
AR(6); Diabetic Retinopathy Clinical Research Network.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Michigan 
Medical School, Ann Arbor2Department of Health Management and Policy, University 
of Michigan School of Public Health, Ann Arbor.
(2)Department of Health Management and Policy, University of Michigan School of 
Public Health, Ann Arbor3Department of Industrial and Operations Engineering, 
University of Michigan College of Engineering, Ann Arbor4Institute for 
Healthcare Policy and Innovat.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Michigan 
Medical School, Ann Arbor2Department of Health Management and Policy, University 
of Michigan School of Public Health, Ann Arbor4Institute for Healthcare Policy 
and Innovation, Univers.
(4)Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
Maryland6Editor, JAMA Ophthalmology.
(5)Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois.
(6)Jaeb Center for Health Research, Tampa, Florida.

Comment in
    JAMA Ophthalmol. 2017 Mar 1;135(3):290-291.
    JAMA Ophthalmol. 2017 Mar 1;135(3):291-292.
    JAMA Ophthalmol. 2017 Mar 1;135(3):291.

IMPORTANCE: Anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) medicines have 
revolutionized diabetic macular edema (DME) treatment. A recent randomized 
clinical trial comparing anti-VEGF agents for patients with decreased vision 
from DME found that at 1 year aflibercept (2.0 mg) achieved better visual 
outcomes than repackaged (compounded) bevacizumab (1.25 mg) or ranibizumab (0.3 
mg); the worse the starting vision, the greater the treatment benefit with 
aflibercept. However, aflibercept and ranibizumab, respectively, are 
approximately 31 and 20 times more expensive than bevacizumab.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) of 
aflibercept, bevacizumab, and ranibizumab for the treatment of DME.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Post hoc analysis of efficacy, safety, and 
resource utilization data at 1-year follow-up from the Diabetic Retinopathy 
Clinical Research Network Comparative Effectiveness Trial. Patients were 
enrolled from August 22, 2012, through August 28, 2013, and analysis was 
performed from August 21, 2014, through November 7, 2015.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The ICERs for all trial participants and subgroups 
with baseline vision of approximate Snellen equivalent 20/32 to 20/40 (better 
vision) and baseline vision of approximate Snellen equivalent 20/50 or worse 
(worse vision). One-year trial data were used to calculate cost-effectiveness 
for 1 year for the 3 anti-VEGF agents; mathematical modeling was then used to 
project 10-year cost-effectiveness results.
RESULTS: The study included 624 participants (mean [SD] age, 60.6 [10.5] years; 
45.7% female; 65.5% white), 209 in the aflibercept group, 207 in the bevacizumab 
group, and 208 in the ranibizumab group. For all participants, during 1 year, 
the ICERs of aflibercept and ranibizumab compared with bevacizumab were 
$1 110 000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) and $1 730 000 per QALY, 
respectively. During 10 years, they were $349 000 per QALY and $603 000 per 
QALY, respectively. Compared with ranibizumab, aflibercept's ICER was $648 000 
per QALY at 1 year and $203 000 per QALY at 10 years. For the subgroup with 
worse baseline vision, the 10-year ICERs of aflibercept and ranibizumab compared 
with bevacizumab were $287 000 per QALY and $817 000 per QALY, respectively. In 
eyes with decreased vision from DME, treatment costs of aflibercept and 
ranibizumab would need to decrease by 69% and 80%, respectively, to reach a 
cost-effectiveness threshold of $100 000 per QALY compared with bevacizumab 
during a 10-year horizon; for the subgroup with worse baseline vision, the costs 
would need to decrease by 62% and 84%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Aflibercept (2.0 mg) and ranibizumab (0.3 mg) are not 
cost-effective relative to bevacizumab for treatment of DME unless their prices 
decrease substantially. These results highlight the challenges that physicians, 
patients, and policymakers face when safety and efficacy results are at odds 
with cost-effectiveness results.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2016.1669
PMCID: PMC6648661
PMID: 27280850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Med Decis Making. 2017 May;37(4):367-376. doi: 10.1177/0272989X16650669.
Epub  2016 Jun 8.

Bayesian Solutions for Handling Uncertainty in Survival Extrapolation.

Negrín MA(1)(2), Nam J(1), Briggs AH(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Health Technology Assessment, Institute of Health & 
Wellbeing, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK (MAN, JN, AHB).
(2)Department of Quantitative Methods, University of Las Palmas de G.C., Las 
Palmas de G.C., Spain (MAN).

OBJECTIVE: Survival extrapolation using a single, best-fit model ignores 2 
sources of model uncertainty: uncertainty in the true underlying distribution 
and uncertainty about the stability of the model parameters over time. Bayesian 
model averaging (BMA) has been used to account for the former, but it can also 
account for the latter. We investigated BMA using a published comparison of the 
Charnley and Spectron hip prostheses using the original 8-year follow-up 
registry data.
METHODS: A wide variety of alternative distributions were fitted. Two additional 
distributions were used to address uncertainty about parameter stability: 
optimistic and skeptical. The optimistic (skeptical) model represented the model 
distribution with the highest (lowest) estimated probabilities of survival but 
reestimated using, as prior information, the most optimistic (skeptical) 
parameter estimated for intermediate follow-up periods. Distributions were then 
averaged assuming the same posterior probabilities for the optimistic, 
skeptical, and noninformative models. Cost-effectiveness was compared using both 
the original 8-year and extended 16-year follow-up data.
RESULTS: We found that all models obtained similar revision-free years during 
the observed period. In contrast, there was variability over the decision time 
horizon. Over the observed period, we detected considerable uncertainty in the 
shape parameter for Spectron. After BMA, Spectron was cost-effective at a 
threshold of £20,000 with 93% probability, whereas the best-fit model was 100%; 
by contrast, with a 16-year follow-up, it was 0%.
CONCLUSIONS: This case study casts doubt on the ability of the single best-fit 
model selected by information criteria statistics to adequately capture model 
uncertainty. Under this scenario, BMA weighted by posterior probabilities better 
addressed model uncertainty. However, there is still value in regularly updating 
health economic models, even where decision uncertainty is low.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X16650669
PMID: 27281336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Int J Surg Case Rep. 2016;24:211-4. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2016.05.047. Epub
2016  May 28.

Aggressive angiomyxoma presenting with back and perineal bulge; a complex 
surgical approach: A case report.

Faraj W(1), Houjeij M(2), Haydar A(3), Nassar H(4), Nounou G(2), Khalife M(5).

Author information:
(1)Liver Transplantation and Hepatopancreaticobiliary Surgery, Department of 
General Surgery, American University of Beirut Medical Center, P.O. Box 11-0236, 
Beirut, Lebanon. Electronic address: wf07@aub.edu.lb.
(2)Department of General Surgery, American University of Beirut Medical Center, 
P.O. Box 11-0236, Beirut, Lebanon.
(3)Department of Radiology, American University of Beirut Medical Center, P.O. 
Box 11-0236, Beirut, Lebanon.
(4)Faculty of Medicine, American University of Beirut Medical Center, P.O. Box 
11-0236, Beirut, Lebanon.
(5)Liver Transplantation and Hepatopancreaticobiliary Surgery, Department of 
General Surgery, American University of Beirut Medical Center, P.O. Box 11-0236, 
Beirut, Lebanon.

INTRODUCTION: Aggressive angiomyxoma is a rare mesenchymal tumor occurring 
predominantly in the pelvi-perineal region. It is more common in females during 
their reproductive age. Our focus is on the surgical approach for a recurrent 
angiomyxoma.
CASE PRESENTATION: We present a case of a 36-year-old female patient with a 
recurrent lower back and perineal bulges. One year ago, she had the same 
presentation and underwent resection of that mass in a peripheral hospital 
without available information. Five months later, she started to have the same 
bulge. Computed tomography scan and true cut biopsy were suggestive of 
angiomyxoma with single lung metastasis. The decision was to proceed with 
resection through a transabdominal and perineal incision, even in the presence 
of metastasis since it's a very slow growing tumor with long life expectancy. 
The pathology was consistent with aggressive angiomyxoma.
DISCUSSION: 90% of patients with angiomyxoma are women. Although it is benign, 
the tumor is still aggressive because of the high rate of local recurrence after 
resection. Angiomyxoma is a mesenchymal tumor, composed of fibroblasts within a 
myxoid background. Treatment is usually through wide local excision to achieve 
an R0 resection. Our approach was through a transabdominal and perineal 
incision, which allowed full control and mobilization of the tumor without 
disrupting the capsule. This surgical approach was not described previously in 
the literature.
CONCLUSION: The principle to achieve cure in aggressive angiomyxoma is by 
optimizing exposure through two different incisions, wide excision while keeping 
the capsule intact and removing enbloc any invaded organ.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2016.05.047
PMCID: PMC4906141
PMID: 27281363


531. Br J Nurs. 2016 Jun 9-22;25(11):579. doi: 10.12968/bjon.2016.25.11.579.

Too many men die young.

Peate I(1).

Author information:
(1)Editor in Chief, British Journal of Nursing.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.2016.25.11.579
PMID: 27281585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Rev Med Suisse. 2016 Apr 27;12(516):840-3.

[Neurological complications of anticancer treatments].

[Article in French]

Hottinger AF, Perez L, Hägele-Link S, Hundsberger T.

After bone marrow toxicity, neurological toxicities are the second most common 
complications of cancer. They can be observed throughout the course of the 
disease or even after the end of treatment. Establishing the correct diagnosis 
may be a challenge but is of outmost importance to minimize the risk of 
long-term neurological deficits and to improve the quality of life of the 
patients. This review will focus on neurological complications induced by 
chemotherapeutic agents. As the life expectancy and number of treatment lines 
used in cancer patients increases, these complications are bound to become more 
frequent and should be aware to neurologists.

PMID: 27281942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Rev Med Suisse. 2016 Apr 27;12(516):848, 850-2.

[Acute neurorehabilitation in neurooncology: Swiss Pilot Project and review of 
the litterature].

[Article in French]

Diserens K, Robert JP, Pellet C, Berney L, Levivier M, Hottinger AF.

New treatment modalities in oncology, radiation oncology and surgery have led to 
a significant improvement in life expectancy for cancer patients. Some will 
however develop severe neurologic deficits that will impact their quality of 
life. To limit this impact, it is essential to offer optimal 
neurorehabilitation. In this context, a pilot project of early and intensive 
neurorehabilitation for brain tumor patients has been set up. A collaboration 
between the teams of neurooncology, acute neurorehabilitation and neurosurgery 
from the CHUV and the Clinique La Lignière allows an intensive and direct 
neurorehabilitation following neurosurgery. This neuroreeducation has allowed 
75% of the patients included in this program to return home.

PMID: 27281944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Rev Med Suisse. 2016 Apr 27;12(516):853-6.

[Palliative care for glioblastoma].

[Article in French]

Dieudonné N, De Micheli R, Hottinger A.

Patients with glioblastoma have a limited life expectancy and an impaired 
quality of life and they should be offered palliative care soon after the 
diagnosis is established. Still, only a quarter of patients aged over 65 return 
home or medical institution after completing treatments. Home care must be 
promoted by coordinating assistance and care, combining disciplines such as 
physiotherapy and ergotherapy, medical and nursing care and psychosocial 
support. Patients are at risk of mood, personality and behavioural disorders. 
Limited awareness of these troubles and their physical limitations alter their 
capacity of rehabilitation and social relationships. Isolation of relatives, 
exhaustion and misunderstandings should be prevented. The therapeutic goals 
should be discussed and determined upstream to anticipate difficulties and 
questions concerning end of life.

PMID: 27281945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Popul Stud (Camb). 2016 Jul;70(2):181-200. doi:
10.1080/00324728.2016.1190029.  Epub 2016 Jun 10.

A cost of living longer: Projections of the effects of prospective mortality 
improvement on economic support ratios for 14 advanced economies.

Parr N(1), Li J(1), Tickle L(1).

Author information:
(1)a Macquarie University.

The economic implications of increasing life expectancy are important concerns 
for governments in developed countries. The aims of this study were as follows: 
(i) to forecast mortality for 14 developed countries from 2010 to 2050, using 
the Poisson Common Factor Model; (ii) to project the effects of the forecast 
mortality patterns on support ratios; and (iii) to calculate labour force 
participation increases which could offset these effects. The forecast gains in 
life expectancy correlate negatively with current fertility. Pre-2050 support 
ratios are projected to fall most in Japan and east-central and southern Europe, 
and least in Sweden and Australia. A post-2050 recovery is projected for most 
east-central and southern European countries. The increases in labour force 
participation needed to counterbalance the effects of mortality improvement are 
greatest for Japan, Poland, and the Czech Republic, and least for the USA, 
Canada, Netherlands, and Sweden. The policy implications are discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.2016.1190029
PMID: 27282412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Pharmacoeconomics. 2016 Nov;34(11):1133-1144. doi:
10.1007/s40273-016-0421-0.

Impact on the Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio of Using Alternatives to 
EQ-5D in a Markov Model for Multiple Sclerosis.

Versteegh M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University of Rotterdam, 
Burgemeester Oudlaan 50, 3000 DR, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
versteegh@imta.eur.nl.

OBJECTIVES: This study responds to a request in the National Institute for 
Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidance to assess the impact of using 
alternative sources of utility values, applied to multiple sclerosis (MS).
METHODS: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated using 
utility values based on UK and Dutch values of EQ-5D, two UK mappings and one 
Dutch mapping of EQ-5D and two condition-specific instruments: the UK 
eight-dimensional Multiple Sclerosis Impact Scale (MSIS-8D) and the Dutch 
