shelf-life has been developed. Dried curry leaves powder was incorporated with 
other ingredients like rice and dehusked black gram in different proportions to 
optimize the most palatable formulation. Rate of fermentation and microbial 
changes in the batter; nutritional qualities, texture and sensory properties of 
the prepared product were assessed. Incorporation of curry leaves powder (5 %) 
in idli batter increased the shelf-life and also increased the flavour, texture 
and appearance of the idli. The calcium content of the prepared idli was 
10 times more than that of the control idli, while dietary fiber content 
increased by 18.6 %. Anti-microbial activity of the curry leaves in idli batter 
extended the shelf-life from 2 to 5 days when stored at 30 °C.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-016-2264-2
PMCID: PMC4951439
PMID: 27478242


65. J Korean Med Sci. 2016 Aug;31(8):1300-6. doi: 10.3346/jkms.2016.31.8.1300.
Epub  2016 May 16.

Is There Any Age Cutoff to Treat Elderly Patients with Head and Neck Cancer? 
Comparing with Septuagenarians and Octogenarians.

Kim H(1), Kim SD(2), Shim YJ(2), Lee SY(2), Sung MW(3), Kim KH(2), Hah JH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Hallym University, 
Dongtan Sacred Heart Hospital, Hwaseong, Korea .
(2)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea .
(3)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.; Cancer Research Institute, Seoul 
National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

With the increase in life expectancy, age is no longer considered as a 
limitation for treatment. Nevertheless, the treatment of elderly patients with 
head and neck cancer (HNC) remains controversial. Here, we aimed to review our 
experience with the treatment for elderly patients, while particularly focusing 
on the differences among older old patients (septuagenarians vs. octogenarians). 
We retrospectively reviewed the records of 260 elderly patients who were 
assigned to 3 groups according to age: 70 years old ≤ group 1 < 75 years old, 75 
years old ≤ group 2 < 80 years old, and group 3 ≥ 80 years old. The patients 
were assessed for comorbidities using the Adult Comorbidity Evaluation (ACE)-27, 
and the American Society of Anesthesia (ASA) physical status was also compared. 
Group 1, 2, and 3, consisted of 97, 102, and 61 patients, respectively. No 
significant difference in demographic data was noted among the groups. However, 
group 3 showed more comorbidities than groups 1 and 2. With regard to the 
initial treatment for HNC, radiation therapy (RT) was more frequently performed 
in group 3 than in groups 1 and 2. Among 7 patients of non-compliant to 
treatment in group 3, 6 patients had have performed RT. In group 3, a total of 
18 patients underwent surgery, including microvascular free flap reconstruction 
and no significant difference in complications was observed postoperatively 
compared with group 1 and 2. Moreover, no significant difference was noted in 
overall survival between the groups, regardless of the treatment modality 
chosen. In conclusion, octogenarians with HNC should be more carefully managed 
than septuagenarians with HNC. Surgical treatment can be considered in 
octogenarians with HNC, if it can be tolerated.

DOI: 10.3346/jkms.2016.31.8.1300
PMCID: PMC4951562
PMID: 27478343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURE: The authors have no potential 
conflicts of interest to disclose.


66. J Clin Cell Immunol. 2016 Jun;7(3):423. doi: 10.4172/2155-9899.1000423. Epub 
2016 Jun 3.

Impact of Depression and Inflammation on the Progression of HIV Disease.

Rivera-Rivera Y(1), Vázquez-Santiago FJ(1), Albino E(1), Sánchez MD(1), 
Rivera-Amill V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Sciences, Ponce Health Sciences University/Ponce Research 
Institute, Ponce, PR 00716, USA.

The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) epidemic has negatively affected 
over 40 million people worldwide. Antiretroviral therapy (ART) has improved life 
expectancy and changed the outcome of HIV-1 infection, making it a chronic and 
manageable disease. However, AIDS and non-AIDS comorbid illnesses persist during 
the course of infection despite the use of ART. In addition, the development of 
neuropsychiatric comorbidities (including depression) by HIV-infected subjects 
significantly affects quality of life, medication adherence, and disease 
prognosis. The factors associated with depression during HIV-1 infection include 
altered immune response, the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines, and 
monoamine imbalance. Elevated plasma pro-inflammatory cytokine levels contribute 
to the development of depression and depressive-like behaviors in HIV+ subjects. 
In addition, comorbid depression influences the decline rates of CD4+ cell 
counts and increases plasma viral load. Depression can manifest in some subjects 
despite their adherence to ART. In addition, psychosocial factors related to 
stigma (negative attitudes, moral issues, and abuse of HIV+ subjects) are also 
associated with depression. Both neurobiological and psychosocial factors are 
important considerations for the effective clinical management of HIV and the 
prevention of HIV disease progression.

DOI: 10.4172/2155-9899.1000423
PMCID: PMC4966661
PMID: 27478681


67. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2016 Aug 1;95(5):1327-1333. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2016.04.026.

The Stagnation and Decay of Radiation Oncology Resources: Lessons From Nigeria.

Irabor OC(1), Nwankwo KC(2), Adewuyi SA(3).

Author information:
(1)Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts. Electronic 
address: omi766@mail.harvard.edu.
(2)Department of Clinical and Radiation Oncology, University of Nigeria Teaching 
Hospital, Nsukka, Nigeria.
(3)Department of Radiology, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Nigeria.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2016.04.026
PMID: 27479720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Lifetime Data Anal. 2017 Oct;23(4):585-604. doi: 10.1007/s10985-016-9376-x.
Epub  2016 Aug 1.

Optimal treatment regimes for survival endpoints using a locally-efficient 
doubly-robust estimator from a classification perspective.

Bai X(1), Tsiatis AA(2), Lu W(2), Song R(2).

Author information:
(1)North Carolina State University, Raleigh, USA. xbai3@ncsu.edu.
(2)North Carolina State University, Raleigh, USA.

A treatment regime at a single decision point is a rule that assigns a 
treatment, among the available options, to a patient based on the patient's 
baseline characteristics. The value of a treatment regime is the average outcome 
of a population of patients if they were all treated in accordance to the 
treatment regime, where large values are desirable. The optimal treatment regime 
is a regime which results in the greatest value. Typically, the optimal 
treatment regime is estimated by positing a regression relationship for the 
outcome of interest as a function of treatment and baseline characteristics. 
However, this can lead to suboptimal treatment regimes when the regression model 
is misspecified. We instead consider value search estimators for the optimal 
treatment regime where we directly estimate the value for any treatment regime 
and then maximize this estimator over a class of regimes. For many studies the 
primary outcome of interest is survival time which is often censored. We derive 
a locally efficient, doubly robust, augmented inverse probability weighted 
complete case estimator for the value function with censored survival data and 
study the large sample properties of this estimator. The optimization is 
realized from a weighted classification perspective that allows us to use 
available off the shelf software. In some studies one treatment may have greater 
toxicity or side effects, thus we also consider estimating a quality adjusted 
optimal treatment regime that allows a patient to trade some additional risk of 
death in order to avoid the more invasive treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-016-9376-x
PMCID: PMC5288304
PMID: 27480339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2017 Feb;15(1):65-74. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-016-0261-2.

Assessing the Effect of Potential Reductions in Non-Hepatic Mortality on the 
Estimated Cost-Effectiveness of Hepatitis C Treatment in Early Stages of Liver 
Disease.

Leidner AJ(1), Chesson HW(2), Spradling PR(3), Holmberg SD(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Viral Hepatitis, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 1600 
Clifton Road, Mailstop G-37, Atlanta, GA, 30333, USA. aleidner@cdc.gov.
(2)Division of Sexually Transmitted Disease Prevention, Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(3)Division of Viral Hepatitis, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 1600 
Clifton Road, Mailstop G-37, Atlanta, GA, 30333, USA.

BACKGROUND: Most cost-effectiveness analyses of hepatitis C (HCV) therapy focus 
on the benefits of reducing liver-related morbidity and mortality.
OBJECTIVES: Our objective was to assess how cost-effectiveness estimates of HCV 
therapy can vary depending on assumptions regarding the potential impact of HCV 
therapy on non-hepatic mortality.
METHODS: We adapted a state-transition model to include potential effects of HCV 
therapy on non-hepatic mortality. We assumed successful treatment could reduce 
non-hepatic mortality by as little as 0 % to as much as 100 %. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were computed comparing immediate treatment versus 
delayed treatment and comparing immediate treatment versus non-treatment.
RESULTS: Comparing immediate treatment versus delayed treatment, when we 
included a 44 % reduction in non-hepatic mortality following successful HCV 
treatment, the incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained by 
HCV treatment fell by 76 % (from US$314,100 to US$76,900) for patients with no 
fibrosis and by 43 % (from US$62,500 to US$35,800) for patients with moderate 
fibrosis. Comparing immediate treatment versus non-treatment, assuming a 44 % 
reduction in non-hepatic mortality following successful HCV treatment, the 
incremental cost per QALY gained by HCV treatment fell by 64 % (from US$186,700 
to US$67,300) for patients with no fibrosis and by 27 % (from US$35,000 to 
US$25,500) for patients with moderate fibrosis.
CONCLUSION: Including reductions in non-hepatic mortality from HCV treatment can 
have substantial effects on the estimated cost-effectiveness of treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-016-0261-2
PMCID: PMC5802335
PMID: 27480538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with Ethical Standards Andrew 
Leidner, Harrell Chesson, Philip Spradling, and Scott Holmberg report no 
conflicts of interest. All authors are employees of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention. This work was supported by the Division of Viral 
Hepatitis at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CHeCS is funded by 
the Centers for Disease Control Foundation, which received grants from AbbVie, 
Abbott Laboratories; Genetech, a Member of the Roche Group; Janssen 
Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson; and Vertex Pharmaceuticals. 
Granting corporations do not have access to CHeCS data and do not contribute to 
data analysis or writing of manuscripts.


70. Pharmacoeconomics. 2016 Dec;34(12):1241-1253. doi: 10.1007/s40273-016-0436-6.

Vedolizumab for Treating Moderately to Severely Active Crohn's Disease After 
Prior Therapy: An Evidence Review Group Perspective of a NICE Single Technology 
Appraisal.

Rafia R(1), Scope A(2), Harnan S(2), Stevens JW(2), Stevenson M(2), Lobo A(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield, S1 4DA, UK. r.rafia@sheffield.ac.uk.
(2)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield, S1 4DA, UK.
(3)Gastroenterology Service, Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.

As part of its single technology appraisal process, the National Institute for 
Health and Care Excellence (NICE) invited the manufacturer of vedolizumab 
(Takeda UK) to submit evidence of the clinical effectiveness and cost 
effectiveness of vedolizumab for the treatment of patients with 
moderate-to-severe, active Crohn's disease. The School of Health and Related 
Research (ScHARR) at the University of Sheffield was commissioned as the 
Evidence Review Group (ERG) and produced a critical review of the evidence of 
the clinical effectiveness and cost effectiveness of the technology, based upon 
the company's submission to NICE. The GEMINI II and III trials formed the main 
supporting evidence for the intervention. Both studies were phase III, 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre trials designed to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of vedolizumab. They included patients who were 
naïve to tumour necrosis factor alpha antagonist (anti-TNF-α) therapy and 
patients who had an inadequate response to, loss of response to or intolerance 
of immunomodulators or anti-TNF-α agents. GEMINI II was designed to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of vedolizumab as an induction treatment (dosing at weeks 0 
and 2, with assessment at week 6) and maintenance treatment (during weeks 6-52). 
In contrast, GEMINI III was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 
vedolizumab as an induction treatment only, with doses at weeks 0, 2 and 6, and 
assessment at weeks 6 and 10. In the absence of any direct head-to-head, 
randomised, controlled trials comparing vedolizumab with other relevant biologic 
therapies (adalimumab and infliximab) for the treatment of moderate-to-severe 
Crohn's disease, the company conducted a network meta-analysis, which compared 
vedolizumab, adalimumab, infliximab and placebo for the outcomes of clinical 
response, enhanced clinical response, clinical remission and discontinuation due 
to adverse events. The company model estimated the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for vedolizumab compared with the standard of 
care (consisting of 5-aminosalicylic acids, corticosteroids and 
immunosuppressants) to be £21,620 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained 
within the anti-TNF-α-failure population (which included a confidential patient 
access scheme for vedolizumab). The ICERs were above £30,000 per QALY gained for 
the mixed intention-to-treat population (including both anti-TNF-α-naïve and 
anti-TNF-α-failure populations) and in patients who were anti-TNF-α naïve only. 
The ERG identified a number of limitations that were believed to limit the 
robustness of the results presented by the company. These limitations could not 
be addressed by the ERG without major restructuring of the economic model. 
Therefore, the ERG concluded that the results from the company's model needed to 
be interpreted with caution and that it was unclear whether the ICERs would 
increase or decrease following amendment of the identified structural issues.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-016-0436-6
PMID: 27480631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Acta Ophthalmol. 2016 Nov;94(7):652-656. doi: 10.1111/aos.13185. Epub 2016
Aug  2.

Cost-effectiveness of treating wet age-related macular degeneration at the 
Kuopio University Hospital in Finland based on a two-eye Markov transition 
model.

Vottonen P(1), Kankaanpää E(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland. 
pasi.vottonen@kuh.fi.
(2)Faculty of Social Sciences and Business Studies, Department of Health and 
Social Management, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.

PURPOSE: Wet age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of 
blindness worldwide, which can be treated with regular intraocular anti-vascular 
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) injections. In this study, we wanted to 
evaluate whether less frequent injections of aflibercept would make it more 
cost-effective when compared with ranibizumab and low priced bevacizumab.
METHODS: We used a two-eye model to simulate the progression and the treatment 
of the disease. We selected an 8-year period, 3-month cycles and five health 
states based on the visual acuity of the better-seeing eye. The transition 
probabilities and utilities attached to the health states were gathered from 
previous studies. We conducted the analysis from the hospital perspective and we 
used the health care costs obtained from Kuopio University Hospital. The costs 
of intraocular adverse events were taken into account.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) with 3% discount rate 
(€/QALY) for aflibercept compared with monthly bevacizumab was 1 801 228 and 
when compared with ranibizumab given as needed, the ICER was minus 3 716 943. 
The sensitivity analysis showed that a change of 20% of the estimated model 
parameters or a longer follow-up period did not influence these conclusions.
CONCLUSION: A two-eye Markov transition model was developed to analyse the 
cost-effectiveness of wet AMD treatment, as quality of life years (QALYs) are 
largely based on the visual acuity of the better-seeing eye. Monthly injected 
bevacizumab was the most cost-effective treatment and monthly ranibizumab the 
least effective.

© 2016 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.13185
PMID: 27481048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Cas Lek Cesk. 2016;155(4):43-7.

[End-of-life care in the Czech Republic].

[Article in Czech]

Holmerová I, Wija P.

Rapid demographic changes and rising prevalence of chronic disease bring about 
changing demands on health and social care. Declining mortality in higher age 
groups and increasing life expectancy results in changing structure of users of 
health services, the structure of causes of death and, of course, in the age 
distribution of deaths. The Czech Republic is among the countries with the most 
rapidly aging populations.Although large majority of people wish to age and also 
to die at home, in 2012, nearly three-quarters of people died in a hospital or 
other health and social facilities. Despite the deteriorating health of 
residents of residential social services and the high and increasing number of 
people dying in those institutions, the availability and quality of health care 
in those facilities is very problematic. Palliative care and long-term care 
should respond to the changing needs of our population, arising from rapidly 
ageing population and increasing prevalence of chronic diseases, regardless of 
whether such care is provided in health or social care facilities.

PMID: 27481202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. BMJ Open. 2016 Aug 1;6(8):e011311. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-011311.

Are lower levels of red blood cell transfusion more cost-effective than liberal 
levels after cardiac surgery? Findings from the TITRe2 randomised controlled 
trial.

Stokes EA(1), Wordsworth S(1), Bargo D(2), Pike K(3), Rogers CA(3), Brierley 
RC(3), Angelini GD(4), Murphy GJ(5), Reeves BC(3); TITRe2 Investigators.

Collaborators: Tang A, Saravanan P, Kong R, Skipper N, Hopkins E, Lambert P, 
Bhudia SK, Gocher D, Bennett S, Smith N, Walker A, Bennett M, Dalrymple-Hay M, 
Pearse M, Ritchie AJ, Redman E, Solesbury A, Zamvar V, Lockwood G, Fiorentino F, 
Rahman A, Kunst G, Parsons G, Wade-Smith F, Cross MH, Elliot S, Beardow Z, Sypt 
T, Williams M, Fabri B, Kemp I, Young A, Stratford N, Robinson H, Clark S, 
Rowling S, Forsyth H, Gill R, Wadhams B, de Courcy-Golder K, Morgan I, Greatbach 
E, Ng A.

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Department of Population Health, Health Economics Research Centre, 
University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(2)Nuffield Department of Population Health, Health Economics Research Centre, 
University of Oxford, Oxford, UK Eli Lilly and Company Limited, Lilly House, 
Basingstoke, Hampshire, UK.
(3)Clinical Trials and Evaluation Unit, School of Clinical Sciences, University 
of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(4)Bristol Heart Institute, School of Clinical Sciences, University of Bristol, 
Bristol, UK.
(5)Department of Cardiovascular Sciences and NIHR Leicester Biomedical Research 
Unit in Cardiovascular Medicine, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the incremental cost and cost-effectiveness of a 
restrictive versus a liberal red blood cell transfusion threshold after cardiac 
surgery.
DESIGN: A within-trial cost-effectiveness analysis with a 3-month time horizon, 
based on a multicentre superiority randomised controlled trial from the 
perspective of the National Health Service (NHS) and personal social services in 
the UK.
SETTING: 17 specialist cardiac surgery centres in UK NHS hospitals.
PARTICIPANTS: 2003 patients aged >16 years undergoing non-emergency cardiac 
surgery with a postoperative haemoglobin of <9 g/dL.
INTERVENTIONS: Restrictive (transfuse if haemoglobin <7.5 g/dL) or liberal 
(transfuse if haemoglobin <9 g/dL) threshold during hospitalisation after 
surgery.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Health-related quality of life measured using the 
EQ-5D-3L to calculate quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: The total costs from surgery up to 3 months were £17 945 and £18 127 in 
the restrictive and liberal groups (mean difference is -£182, 95% CI -£1108 to 
£744). The cost difference was largely attributable to the difference in the 
cost of red blood cells. Mean QALYs to 3 months were 0.18 in both groups 
(restrictive minus liberal difference is 0.0004, 95% CI -0.0037 to 0.0045). The 
point estimate for the base-case cost-effectiveness analysis suggested that the 
restrictive group was slightly more effective and slightly less costly than the 
liberal group and, therefore, cost-effective. However, there is great 
uncertainty around these results partly due to the negligible differences in 
QALYs gained.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that there is no clear difference in the 
cost-effectiveness of restrictive and liberal thresholds for red blood cell 
transfusion after cardiac surgery.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN70923932; Results.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-011311
PMCID: PMC4985876
PMID: 27481621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. J Rheumatol. 2016 Oct;43(10):1832-1837. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.160162. Epub 2016
 Aug 1.

Health State Utilities and Disease Duration in Systemic Sclerosis: Is There an 
Association?

Raymakers AJ(1), Tsao NW(1), Marra CA(1), Clements PJ(1), Khanna D(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Collaboration for Outcomes Research and Evaluation (CORE), Faculty 
of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia; School of Pharmacy, Memorial University of Newfoundland, St. John's, 
Newfoundland, Canada; University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan; Division of 
Rheumatology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los 
Angeles (UCLA), Los Angeles, California, USA.A.J. Raymakers, MSc, CORE, Faculty 
of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia; N.W. Tsao, MSc, 
CORE, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia; C.A. 
Marra, PhD, School of Pharmacy, Memorial University of Newfoundland; P.J. 
Clements, MD, Division of Rheumatology, David Geffen School of Medicine, UCLA; 
D. Khanna, MD, MSc, University of Michigan.
(2)From the Collaboration for Outcomes Research and Evaluation (CORE), Faculty 
of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia; School of Pharmacy, Memorial University of Newfoundland, St. John's, 
Newfoundland, Canada; University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan; Division of 
Rheumatology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los 
Angeles (UCLA), Los Angeles, California, USA.A.J. Raymakers, MSc, CORE, Faculty 
of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia; N.W. Tsao, MSc, 
CORE, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia; C.A. 
Marra, PhD, School of Pharmacy, Memorial University of Newfoundland; P.J. 
Clements, MD, Division of Rheumatology, David Geffen School of Medicine, UCLA; 
D. Khanna, MD, MSc, University of Michigan. khannad@med.umich.edu.

OBJECTIVE: Health state utility values (HSUV) are used as weightings to 
calculate quality-adjusted life years in economic evaluations. Evidence suggests 
that patients' perceptions of a new diagnosis for a chronic disease, while 
initially poor, may improve over time. The objective of this study was to 
examine the association between disease duration and direct HSUV scores in 
patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc).
METHODS: Our study included patients with SSc from a US SSc center. An 
interviewer administered direct HSUV techniques including the visual analog 
scale (VAS), time tradeoff (TTO), and standard gamble (SG). We calculated the 
Short Form 6D HSUV from the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form-36. Additional 
clinical and demographic variables were collected.
RESULTS: The mean age of the SSc sample (n = 223) was 51 years (SD 16) with the 
majority being women (84%). Median disease duration was 5 years (interquartile 
range 1.5-9). Mean (SD) HSUV scores were 0.67 (0.19) for the VAS, 0.76 (0.28) 
for the TTO, 0.84 (0.22) for the SG, and 0.65 (0.13) for the SF-6D. In patients 
with early disease (defined as ≤ 2 yrs, n = 78), the mean HSUV values were 0.64 
(VAS), 0.70 (TTO), 0.80 (SG), and 0.63 (SF-6D) versus for those with a longer 
disease duration: 0.69, 0.79, 0.87, and 0.67, respectively. In multivariate 
analysis, the SG measure showed a significant and positive association with 
disease duration measured as a continuous variable and using a threshold of 2 
years (p = 0.047 and p = 0.023, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Greater disease duration showed a positive association with a direct 
measure (SG) of utility elicitation after a period of 2 years.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.160162
PMCID: PMC5050095
PMID: 27481898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. J Virus Erad. 2016 Apr 1;2(2):67-77.

What's new for antiretroviral treatment in women with HIV.

Andany N(1), Walmsley SL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine , University of Toronto , Ontario , Canada.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Division of 
Infectious Diseases, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Currently, women represent 52% of persons infected with HIV worldwide and 23% of 
those in the United States. Combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) has 
resulted in remarkable reductions in HIV-associated morbidity and mortality, and 
has dramatically improved life expectancy. Treatment guidelines do not differ 
for HIV-infected men and non-pregnant women. However, clinical trials of 
antiretroviral agents have limited female enrolment, and results from these 
predominantly male studies are extrapolated to the female population. 
Furthermore, many of these studies do not report gender subgroup analyses, and 
those that do are underpowered to detect differences between men and women, 
limiting the ability to assess if results are equally applicable to both sexes. 
Women may have differential responses to and adverse events from cART. A limited 
number of female-only clinical trials have demonstrated that female recruitment 
and retention in these studies is feasible. Therefore, urgent attention is 
required to improve the body of knowledge regarding clinical efficacy, safety 
and tolerability of cART in women. In particular, women living with HIV are 
faced with various sexual and reproductive health concerns that may influence 
choice of cART. These include potential interactions with hormonal 
contraception, safety in pregnancy, and the impact of the transition through 
menopause and development of age-related comorbidities. Finally, the ongoing 
advances in biomedical HIV prevention, particularly pre-exposure prophylaxis 
(PrEP), provide an enormous opportunity to enhance HIV prevention in high-risk 
women, in efforts to further reduce global burden of the pandemic.

PMCID: PMC4965248
PMID: 27482438


76. J Virus Erad. 2016 Apr 1;2(2):114-6.

The menopause transition in women living with HIV: current evidence and future 
avenues of research.

Tariq S(1), Anderson J(2), Burns F(1), Delpech V(3), Gilson R(1), Sabin C(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Department of Infection and Population Health , University College 
London , UK.
(2)Centre for the Study of Sexual Health and HIV , Homerton University Hospital 
NHS Foundation Trust , London , UK.
(3)Public Health England , London , UK.

As the life expectancy of people living with HIV improves as a result of 
antiretroviral therapy, increasing numbers of women living with HIV (WLHIV) are 
now reaching menopausal age. The menopause transition in WLHIV remains a 
relatively overlooked area in clinical HIV research. Whilst there is some 
evidence to suggest that WLHIV experience menopause at an earlier age and that 
they have more menopausal symptoms, there is no clear consensus in the 
literature around an impact of HIV infection on either timing or symptomatology 
of the menopause. Data are also conflicting on whether HIV-related factors such 
as HIV viral load and CD4 cell count have an impact on the menopause. 
Furthermore, menopausal symptoms in WLHIV are known to go under-recognised by 
both healthcare providers and women themselves. There is likely to be a burden 
of unmet health needs among WLHIV transitioning through the menopause, with 
significant gaps in the evidence base for their care. With this in mind, we have 
developed the PRIME study (Positive Transitions Through the Menopause). This 
mixed-methods observational study will explore, for the first time in the UK, 
the impact of the menopause on the health and wellbeing of 1500 ethnically 
diverse WLHIV. In establishing a cohort of women in their midlife and following 
them up longitudinally, we hope to develop a nuanced understanding of the 
gendered aspects of ageing and HIV, informing the provision of appropriate 
services for WLHIV to ensure that they are supported in maintaining optimal 
health and wellbeing as they get older.

PMCID: PMC4965243
PMID: 27482447


77. PLoS One. 2016 Aug 2;11(8):e0160155. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0160155. 
eCollection 2016.

Economic Evaluation of Companion Diagnostic Testing for EGFR Mutations and 
First-Line Targeted Therapy in Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Patients in 
South Korea.

Lim EA(1), Lee H(1), Bae E(1), Lim J(1), Shin YK(2), Choi SE(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Korea University, Sejong, Korea.
(2)College of Pharmacy, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND: As targeted therapy becomes increasingly important, diagnostic 
techniques for identifying targeted biomarkers have also become an emerging 
issue. The study aims to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of treating patients as 
guided by epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation status compared with 
a no-testing strategy that is the current clinical practice in South Korea.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was conducted to compare an EGFR mutation 
testing strategy with a no-testing strategy from the Korean healthcare payer's 
perspective. The study population consisted of patients with stage 3b and 4 lung 
adenocarcinoma. A decision tree model was employed to select the appropriate 
treatment regimen according to the results of EGFR mutation testing and a Markov 
model was constructed to simulate disease progression of advanced non-small cell 
lung cancer. The length of a Markov cycle was one month, and the time horizon 
was five years (60 cycles).
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, the testing strategy was a dominant option. 
Quality-adjusted life-years gained (QALYs) were 0.556 and 0.635, and total costs 
were $23,952 USD and $23,334 USD in the no-testing and testing strategy 
respectively. The sensitivity analyses showed overall robust results. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) increased when the number of 
patients to be treated with erlotinib increased, due to the high cost of 
erlotinib.
CONCLUSION: Treating advanced adenocarcinoma based on EGFR mutation status has 
beneficial effects and saves the cost compared to no testing strategy in South 
Korea. However, the cost-effectiveness of EGFR mutation testing was heavily 
affected by the cost-effectiveness of the targeted therapy.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0160155
PMCID: PMC4970739
PMID: 27483001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


78. Masui. 2016 Jun;65(6):614-6.

[Anesthetic Management of a 69-year-old Patient with Eisenmenger Syndrome for 
Abdominoperineal Resection].

[Article in Japanese]

Tamii T, Yoshida A, Ito Y, Nagaya K.

Although life expectancy of the patients with Eisenmenger syndrome (ES) is 
currently reported to be lower than 40 years, life span of the patients with ES 
may be extended because of development of medical care. According to recently 
reported middle-aged patients with ES undergoing non-cardiac surgeries, 
per-operative mortality and morbidity of the patients with ES undergoing 
non-cardiac surgeries may be lower than previously thought, and even elderly 
patients may be able to undergo major surgeries such as laparotomies for 
cancers. We described the anesthetic management of a 69-year-old patient with ES 
who had undergone abdominoperineal resection. In the anesthetic management it is 
important to maintain adequate blood volumne and systemic vascular resistance 
and this avoids increases of right-to-left shunt. Perioperative monitoring of 
pulmonary arterial pressure was useful for hemodynamic management. Good pain 
control and management of body temperature were also needed for a perioperative 
course with no adverse events. The appropriate anesthetic management of the 
69-year-old patient with ES for abdominoperineal resection resulted in the 
successful perioperative course.

PMID: 27483658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. J Health Hum Serv Adm. 2016 Summer;39(1):3-14.

HEALTHCARE FORECASTING IN THE UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (UAE).

Younies H, Elzenaty RJ, Gantasala S, Nwagwu E.

This study has been designed to address the issue of the forecasting of the 
healthcare needs of the United Arab Emirate (UAE) from 1974 to 2011. This 
includes predicting the health system's need for hospitals and hospital beds, as 
well as the public health manpower (example, physicians, nurses) requirements. 
The analysis was based on historical data: the number of hospitals, number of 
nurses, number of hospital beds, which have been posited as the measures of life 
expectancy in the Emirate. The study found that, although significant changes 
designed to enhance public health outcomes in the UAE have been made, beds to 
population ratio was the most significant factor in enhancing healthcare and the 
public health.

PMID: 27483972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Sci Rep. 2016 Aug 3;6:30415. doi: 10.1038/srep30415.

Multivariate analysis of ultrasound-recorded dorsal strain sequences: 
Investigation of dynamic neck extensions in women with chronic whiplash 
associated disorders.

Peolsson A(1), Peterson G(1)(2), Trygg J(3), Nilsson D(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Health Sciences, Division of Physiotherapy, 
Linköping University, Sweden.
(2)Centre for Clinical Research Sörmland, Uppsala University, Sweden.
(3)Computational Life Science Cluster (CLiC), Department of Chemistry, Umeå 
University, Sweden.

Whiplash Associated Disorders (WAD) refers to the multifaceted and chronic 
burden that is common after a whiplash injury. Tools to assist in the diagnosis 
of WAD and an increased understanding of neck muscle behaviour are needed. We 
examined the multilayer dorsal neck muscle behaviour in nine women with chronic 
WAD versus healthy controls during the entire sequence of a dynamic low-loaded 
neck extension exercise, which was recorded using real-time ultrasound movies 
with high frame rates. Principal component analysis and orthogonal partial least 
squares were used to analyse mechanical muscle strain (deformation in elongation 
and shortening). The WAD group showed more shortening during the neck extension 
phase in the trapezius muscle and during both the neck extension and the return 
to neutral phase in the multifidus muscle. For the first time, a novel 
non-invasive method is presented that is capable of detecting altered dorsal 
muscle strain in women with WAD during an entire exercise sequence. This method 
may be a breakthrough for the future diagnosis and treatment of WAD.

DOI: 10.1038/srep30415
PMCID: PMC4971461
PMID: 27484361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Br J Dermatol. 2016 Nov;175(5):1003-1010. doi: 10.1111/bjd.14923. Epub 2016
Sep  13.

Improving the applicability of guidelines on nonmelanoma skin cancer in frail 
older adults: a multidisciplinary expert consensus and systematic review of 
current guidelines.

Lubeek SF(1), Borgonjen RJ(2), van Vugt LJ(2), Olde Rikkert MG(3), van de 
Kerkhof PC(2), Gerritsen MJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Radboud University Medical Center, PO Box 9101, 
6500 HB, Nijmegen, the Netherlands. Satish.Lubeek@radboudumc.nl.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Radboud University Medical Center, PO Box 9101, 
6500 HB, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Geriatrics, Radboud University Medical Center, PO Box 9101, 
6500 HB, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.

Comment in
    Br J Dermatol. 2016 Nov;175(5):855-856.

BACKGROUND: Balancing treatment decisions in frail older adults with nonmelanoma 
skin cancer (NMSC) can be challenging. Clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) could 
provide assistance.
OBJECTIVES: To collect and prioritize items related to frail older adults with 
NMSC for integration into CPGs and to assess the current extent of this 
integration.
METHODS: Items were collected and prioritized by a multidisciplinary working 
group (29 members) using a modified Delphi procedure and a five-point Likert 
scale. To assess current integration of these items in CPGs, a systematic review 
was subsequently performed by two independent reviewers using five medical 
databases (PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library, SUMsearch and Trip Database), 
websites of guideline developers/databases, and (inter)national dermatological 
societies.
RESULTS: Prioritization of a final 13-item list showed that 'limited life 
expectancy' (4·5 ± 0·9) and 'treatment goals other than cure' (4·4 ± 0·7) were 
most desired to be integrated into CPGs; both were included in six (46%) of the 
CPGs found (n = 13). Attention to 'tumour characteristics' and 'comorbidities' 
were included in CPGs most often (100% and 77%, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: More attention to items related to frail older adults in NMSC CPGs 
is broadly desired, but CPG integration of these items is currently limited. 
More integration might stimulate more holistic, personalized and patient-centred 
care in frail older adults.

© 2016 British Association of Dermatologists.

DOI: 10.1111/bjd.14923
PMID: 27484632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Chirurg. 2016 Oct;87(10):831-8. doi: 10.1007/s00104-016-0255-5.

[Treatment of periprosthetic infections].

[Article in German]

Renner L(1), Perka C(2), Trampuz A(2), Renz N(2).

Author information:
(1)Centrum für Muskuloskeletale Chirurgie, Klinik für Orthopädie und Zentrum für 
Septische Chirurgie, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Charitéplatz 1, 
10117, Berlin, Deutschland. lisa.renner@charite.de.
(2)Centrum für Muskuloskeletale Chirurgie, Klinik für Orthopädie und Zentrum für 
Septische Chirurgie, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Charitéplatz 1, 
10117, Berlin, Deutschland.

The increasing number of prosthesis implantations and higher life expectancy 
lead to a growing number of periprosthetic infections (PPI). Optimal therapy 
necessitates interdisciplinary coordination of surgical and antimicrobial 
treatment. Challenges in the treatment are the increased occurrence of resistant 
pathogens, selection of adequate antimicrobial and surgical treatment 
strategies, inappropriate pretreatment and comorbidities of patients. Current 
treatment concepts lead to a high success rate in terms of infection 
eradication, when correctly applied. The individual expectations and underlying 
conditions of each patient must be considered when determining the therapy 
concept. The first step is to distinguish between acute and chronic infections. 
In acute infections the prosthesis can be retained but chronic infections 
necessitate a complete exchange of the prosthesis. Complicating factors, such as 
compromising soft tissue and bone conditions, osteomyelitis and infections 
caused by difficult-to-treat bacteria should, however, always be treated by a 
complete exchange of the prosthesis, even for acute infections. The 
antimicrobial treatment must be tailored to the causative agent, the surgical 
strategy as well as comorbidities and drug intolerances of the patient. It is 
important to distinguish between biofilm-active eradication therapy with 
rifampicin for gram-positive pathogens and quinolones for gram-negative 
organisms and suppression therapy. This article gives a structured presentation 
of the therapy algorithm.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-016-0255-5
PMID: 27484827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Mol Inform. 2014 Apr;33(4):257-63. doi: 10.1002/minf.201400017. Epub 2014 Mar
 13.

Systematic Identification of Matching Molecular Series and Mapping of Screening 
Hits.

de la Vega de León A(1), Hu Y(1), Bajorath J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science Informatics, Bonn-Aachen International Center for 
Information Technology, Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität Bonn, 
Dahlmannstr. 2, D-53113 Bonn (Germany) tel: +49-228-2699-306; fax: 
+49-228-2699-341.
(2)Department of Life Science Informatics, Bonn-Aachen International Center for 
Information Technology, Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität Bonn, 
Dahlmannstr. 2, D-53113 Bonn (Germany) tel: +49-228-2699-306; fax: 
+49-228-2699-341. bajorath@bit.uni-bonn.de.

Matching molecular series (MMS) have originally been introduced as an extension 
of the matched molecular pair (MMP) concept to facilitate the design of 
substructure-based structure-activity relationship (SAR) networks. An MMP is 
defined as a pair of compounds that only differ by a structural change at a 
single site. In addition, an MMS is defined as an MMP-based series of compounds 
that have a conserved structural core and are distinguished by modifications at 
a single site. Systematic generation of MMS from specifically active compounds 
generalizes the search for series of structural analogs. Potency-ordered MMS 
provide series associated with SAR information. We have systematically extracted 
MMS from publicly available compounds with well-defined activity measurements 
and generated a large database with approx. 40 000 single- and 13 600 
multi-target series, which provide a rich source of SAR information. As an 
application, we introduce MMP-based mapping of screening hits to MMS to search 
for initial SAR information and determine all SAR environments available for 
such hits. The MMS database is made freely available to the scientific 
community.

© 2014 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/minf.201400017
PMID: 27485771


84. Scand J Caring Sci. 2017 Sep;31(3):505-513. doi: 10.1111/scs.12364. Epub 2016
 Aug 3.

Service users' expectations of treatment and support at the Community Mental 
Health Centre in their recovery.

Biringer E(1)(2), Davidson L(3), Sundfør B(2), Ruud T(4)(5), Borg M(6).

Author information:
(1)Helse Fonna Local Health Authority, Haugesund, Norway.
(2)Regional Research Network on Mood Disorders (MoodNet), Bergen, Norway.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, 
USA.
(4)Division of Mental Health Services, Akershus University Hospital, Lørenskog, 
Norway.
(5)Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(6)Faculty of Health Sciences, University College of Southeast Norway, Drammen, 
Norway.

BACKGROUND: Focus on service users' needs, coping and empowerment, user 
involvement, and comprehensiveness are supposed to be key elements of the 
Community Mental Health Centres in Norway. Taking a user-oriented approach means 
acknowledging the individual's own expectations, aims and hopes. However, 
studies that have investigated service users' expectations of treatment and 
support at Community Mental Health Centres are hard to find.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was therefore to explore service users' 
expectations at the start of treatment at a Community Mental Health Centre.
METHOD: Within a collaborative framework, taking a hermeneutic-phenomenological 
approach, ten service users participated in in-depth interviews about their 
expectations, hopes and aims for treatment and recovery. The participants sought 
help due to various mental health issues that had interfered with their lives 
and created disability and suffering. A data-driven stepwise approach in line 
with thematic analysis was used. The study was approved by the Norwegian Social 
Science Data Services.
RESULTS: The following four main themes representing participants' expectations 
at the start of treatment were elicited: hope for recovery, developing 
understanding, finding tools for coping and receiving counselling and practical 
assistance. Participants' expectations about treatment were tightly interwoven 
with their personal aims and hopes for their future life, and expectations were 
often related to practical and financial problems, the solution of which being 
deemed necessary to gain a safe basis for recovery in the long run.
LIMITATIONS: The transferability of the results may be limited by the small 
number of participants.
CONCLUSIONS: The study emphasises how important it is that service users' 
personal aims and expectations guide the collaborative treatment process. In 
addition to providing treatment aimed at improving symptoms, Community Mental 
Health Centres should take a more comprehensive approach than today by providing 
more support with family issues, social life, education, work and financial 
issues.

© 2016 Nordic College of Caring Science.

DOI: 10.1111/scs.12364
PMID: 27486028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Dig Liver Dis. 2016 Dec;48(12):1492-1497. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2016.07.007.
Epub  2016 Jul 16.

FOLFOX4 or sorafenib as the first-line treatments for advanced hepatocellular 
carcinoma: A cost-effectiveness analysis.

Zhang P(1), Wen F(1), Li Q(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Cancer Center, State Key Laboratory of 
Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, China; West China 
Biostatistics and Cost-Benefit Analysis Center, Sichuan University, China.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Cancer Center, State Key Laboratory of 
Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, China; West China 
Biostatistics and Cost-Benefit Analysis Center, Sichuan University, China. 
Electronic address: keythera@126.com.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to investigate the pharmaco-economic implications 
of FOLFOX4 or sorafenib for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma in China.
METHODS: To conduct the analysis, we performed a Markov model to simulate the 
process of advanced HCC treated with sorafenib or FOLFOX4. Clinical data were 
obtained from the ORIENTAL trial and the EACH trial. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was regarded as the primary outcome in the analysis. 
One-way sensitivity analysis as well as probabilistic sensitivity analysis was 
performed to explore the impact of essential variables on the results of the 
analysis.
RESULTS: Treatment with sorafenib provided an effectiveness gain of 0.3935 
quality-adjusted life year at an average cost of $18,748.00, whereas 
chemotherapy of FOLFOX4 brought 0.3808 quality-adjusted life year at a cost of 
$6876.02. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of FOLFOX4 versus sorafenib 
was $934,801.57/QALY. In a probabilistic sensitivity analysis based on a Monte 
Carlo simulation of 1000 items, the probabilities of FOLFOX4 and sorafenib being 
cost-effective were 100% and 0% using a willingness-to-pay threshold of 
$20,301.00 per quality-adjusted life year.
CONCLUSIONS: FOLFOX4 chemotherapy is likely to be a cost-effective option 
compared with sorafenib in the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma in 
China.

Copyright © 2016 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2016.07.007
PMID: 27486048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Med Decis Making. 2017 May;37(4):440-452. doi: 10.1177/0272989X16662009. Epub
 2016 Aug 2.

Development of a Conceptual Model of Disease Progression for Use in Economic 
Modeling of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease.

Tabberer M(1), Gonzalez-McQuire S(2)(3), Muellerova H(4), Briggs AH(5)(3), 
Rutten-van Mölken MPMH(6), Chambers M(7), Lomas DA(8).

Author information:
(1)Value Evidence and Outcomes, GSK R&D, Stockley Park, UK (MT).
(2)Formerly Global Health Outcomes, GSK R&D, Stockley Park, UK (SGM).
(3)ICON Health Economics, Morristown, NJ, USA (AHB).
(4)Worldwide Epidemiology, GSK R&D, Stockley Park, UK (HM).
(5)Institute of Health and Wellbeing, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK (AHB).
(6)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University/Erasmus 
Medical Centre, Rotterdam, The Netherlands (MPMHRvM).
(7)MC Healthcare Evaluation, St Albans, UK (MC).
(8)Wolfson Institute for Biomedical Research, University College London, London, 
UK (DAL).

BACKGROUND: To develop and validate a new conceptual model (CM) of chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) for use in disease progression and economic 
modeling. The CM identifies and describes qualitative associations between 
disease attributes, progression and outcomes.
METHODS: A literature review was performed to identify any published CMs or 
literature reporting the impact and association of COPD disease attributes with 
outcomes. After critical analysis of the literature, a Steering Group of experts 
from the disciplines of health economics, epidemiology and clinical medicine was 
convened to develop a draft CM, which was refined using a Delphi process. The 
refined CM was validated by testing for associations between attributes using 
data from the Evaluation of COPD Longitudinally to Identify Predictive Surrogate 
Endpoints (ECLIPSE).
RESULTS: Disease progression attributes included in the final CM were history 
and occurrence of exacerbations, lung function, exercise capacity, signs and 
symptoms (cough, sputum, dyspnea), cardiovascular disease comorbidities, 'other' 
comorbidities (including depression), body composition (body mass index), 
fibrinogen as a biomarker, smoking and demographic characteristics (age, 
gender). Mortality and health-related quality of life were determined to be the 
most relevant final outcome measures for this model, intended to be the 
foundation of an economic model of COPD.
CONCLUSION: The CM is being used as the foundation for developing a new COPD 
model of disease progression and to provide a framework for the analysis of 
patient-level data. The CM is available as a reference for the implementation of 
further disease progression and economic models.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X16662009
PMID: 27486218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Saudi Dent J. 2016 Apr;28(2):96-101. doi: 10.1016/j.sdentj.2016.01.001. Epub 
2016 Apr 13.

The range of diagnoses for oral soft-tissue biopsies of geriatric patients in a 
Saudi Arabian teaching hospital.

Qannam A(1), Bello IO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Medicine and Diagnostic Sciences, King Saud University 
College of Dentistry, Saudi Arabia.

INTRODUCTION: The increased life expectancy being observed worldwide 
necessitates careful planning for future geriatric oral health care needs, which 
should be based on epidemiologic surveys to identify these needs. We aimed to 
survey the range of lesions diagnosed in soft-tissue biopsies of patients over 
age 60 over a 30-year period in a Saudi Arabian teaching hospital.
METHODS: The histopathology records of geriatric patients with complete 
demographic data who were diagnosed between 1984 and 2013 at the College of 
Dentistry, King Saud University, were reviewed. The lesions were then classified 
into eight broad categories. Associations between variables were evaluated using 
Pearson's Chi square test.
RESULTS: There were 231 soft-tissue biopsies obtained from geriatric patients 
whose complete records were available. The male to female ratio was 1.1:1, and 
the mean age was 66.7 years. Most lesions (69%) occurred in patents aged 
60-69 years. Although reactive lesions were generally the most common, the most 
common lesions were squamous cell carcinoma and fibroma. Lesions were most 
commonly located on the buccal mucosa and the alveolar ridge/gingivae.
CONCLUSIONS: The range of lesions seen in Saudi geriatric patients were similar 
to those reported for other parts of the world, although the lesions were more 
similar to those reported from developing countries. The very high rate of oral 
cancer, however, is expected to take the majority of the resources allocated to 
geriatric oral health care, except if a strong, population-based prevention 
