João Serrano, Rui Paulo, Pedro Mendes, Samuel Honório P99 Data for the 
diagnostic process focused on self-care – managing medication regime: An 
integrative literature review Catarina Oliveira, Fernanda Bastos, Inês Cruz P100 
Art therapy as mental health promotion for children Cláudia K. Rodriguez, Márcia 
R. Kretzer, Nazaré O. Nazário P101 Chemical characterization of fungal chitosan 
for industrial applications Pedro Cruz, Daniela C. Vaz, Rui B. Ruben, Francisco 
Avelelas, Susana Silva, Mª Jorge Campos P102 The impact of caring older people 
at home Maria Almeida, Liliana Gonçalves, Lígia Antunes P103 Development of the 
first pressure ulcer in an inpatient setting: Focus on patients’ characteristics 
Pedro Sardo, Jenifer Guedes, João Simões, Paulo Machado, Elsa Melo P104 
Association between General Self-efficacy and Physical Activity among 
Adolescents Susana Cardoso, Osvaldo Santos, Carla Nunes, Isabel Loureiro O203 
Characterization of the habits of online acquisition of medicinal products in 
Portugal Flávia Santos, Gilberto Alves O204 Waiting room – A space for health 
education Cláudia Soar, Teresa O. Marsi O205 Safey culture evaluation in 
hospitalized children Ernestina Silva, Dora Pedrosa, Andrea Leça, Daniel Silva 
O206 Sexual Self-awareness and Body Image Ana Galvão, Maria Gomes, Paula 
Fernandes, Ana Noné O207 Perception of a Portuguese population regarding the 
acquisition and consumption of functional foods Jaime Combadão, Cátia Ramalhete, 
Paulo Figueiredo, Patrícia Caeiro O208 The work process in primary health care: 
evaluation in municipalities of southern Brazil Karine C. Fontana, Josimari T. 
Lacerda, Patrícia O. Machado O209 Exploration and evaluation of potential 
probiotic lactic acid bacteria isolated from Amazon buffalo milk Raphaelle 
Borges, Flávio Barbosa, Dayse Sá O210 Road safety for children: Using children’s 
observation, as a passenger Germana Brunhoso, Graça Aparício, Amâncio Carvalho 
O211 Perception and application of quality-by-design by the Pharmaceutical 
industry in Portugal Ana P. Garcia, Paula O. Fernandes, Adriana Santos O212 Oral 
health among Portuguese children and adolescents: a public health issue Nélio 
Veiga, Carina Brás, Inês Carvalho, Joana Batalha, Margarida Glória, Filipa 
Bexiga, Inês Coelho, Odete Amaral, Carlos Pereira O213 Plant species as a 
medicinal resource in Igatu-Chapada Diamantina (Bahia, Brazil) Cláudia Pinho, 
Nilson Paraíso, Ana I. Oliveira, Cristóvão F. Lima, Alberto P. Dias O214 
Characterization of cognitive and functional performance in everyday tasks: 
Implications for health in institutionalised older adults Pedro Silva, Mário 
Espada, Mário Marques, Ana Pereira O215 BMI and the perception of the importance 
given to sexuality in obese and overweight people Ana Mª Pereira, Mª 
Veiga-Branco, Filomena Pereira, Maria Ribeiro O216 Analysis and comparison of 
microbiological contaminations of two different composition pacifiers Vera Lima, 
Ana I. Oliveira, Cláudia Pinho, Graça Cruz, Rita F. Oliveira, Luísa Barreiros, 
Fernando Moreira O217 Experiences of couple relationships in the transition to 
retirement Ana Camarneiro, Mª Helena Loureiro, Margarida Silva O218 Preventive 
and corrective treatment of drug-induced calcium deficiency: an analysis in a 
community pharmacy setting Catarina Duarte, Ângelo Jesus, Agostinho Cruz O219 
Profile of mood states in physically active elderly subjects: Is there a 
relation with health perception? Maria Mota, Sandra Novais, Paulo Nogueira, Ana 
Pereira, Lara Carneiro, Paulo V. João O220 (Un)Safety behaviour at work: the 
role of education towards a health and safety culture Teresa Maneca Lima O221 
Analysis of the entrepreneurial profile of students attending higher education 
in Portugal: the Carland Entrepreneurship Index application Anabela 
Salgueiro-Oliveira, Marina Vaquinhas, Pedro Parreira, Rosa Melo, João Graveto, 
Amélia Castilho, José H. Gomes O222 Evaluation of welfare and quality of life of 
pregnant working women regarding the age of the pregnant María S. Medina, 
Valeriana G. Blanco O223 Psychological wellbeing protection among unemployed and 
temporary workers: Uncovering effective community-based interventions with a 
Delphi panel Osvaldo Santos, Elisa Lopes, Ana Virgolino, Alexandra Dinis, Sara 
Ambrósio, Inês Almeida, Tatiana Marques, Mª João Heitor O224 Chilean population 
norms derived from the Health-related quality of life SF-6D Miguel A. 
Garcia-Gordillo, Daniel Collado-Mateo, Pedro R. Olivares, José A. Parraça, José 
A. Sala O225 Motivation of college students toward Entrepreneurship: The 
influence of social and economic instability Amélia Castilho, João Graveto, 
Pedro Parreira, Anabela Oliveira, José H. Gomes, Rosa Melo, Marina Vaquinhas 
O226 Use of aromatic and medicinal plants, drugs and herbal products in Bragança 
city Mónia Cheio, Agostinho Cruz, Olívia R. Pereira O227 Edible flowers as new 
novel foods concept for health promotion Sara Pinto, Adriana Oliveira, M. 
Conceição Manso, Carla Sousa, Ana F. Vinha O228 The influence of leisure 
activities on the health and welfare of older people living in nursing homes Mª 
Manuela Machado, Margarida Vieira O229 Risk of falling, fear of falling and 
functionality in community-dwelling older adults Beatriz Fernandes, Teresa 
Tomás, Diogo Quirino O230 Musculoskeletal pain and postural habits in children 
and teenage students Gustavo Desouzart, Rui Matos, Magali Bordini, Pedro Mouroço 
O231 What's different in Southern Europe? The question of citizens’ 
participation in health systems Ana R. Matos, Mauro Serapioni O232 Occupational 
stress in Portuguese police officers Teresa Guimarães, Virgínia Fonseca, André 
Costa, João Ribeiro, João Lobato O233 Is occupational therapy culturally 
relevant to promote mental health in Burkina Faso? Inmaculada Z. Martin, Anita 
Björklund P105 Pay-for-performance satisfaction and quality in primary care Aida 
I. Tavares, Pedro Ferreira, Rui Passadouro P106 Economic development through 
life expectancy lenses Sónia Morgado P107 What is the effectiveness of exercise 
on smoking cessation to prevent clinical complications of smoking? Nuno Tavares, 
João Valente, Anabela C. Martins P108 A systematic review of the effects of yoga 
on mental health Patrícia Araújo, Rosina Fernandes, Francisco Mendes, Cátia 
Magalhães, Emília Martins P109 Healthy lifestyle: comparison between higher 
education students that lived until adult age in rural and urban environment 
Pedro Mendes, Rui Paulo, António Faustino, Helena Mesquita, Samuel Honório, 
Marco Batista P110 Evaluation of the Mobile Emergency Care Service (SAMU) in 
Brazil Josimari T. Lacerda, Angela B. Ortiga, Mª Cristina Calvo, Sônia Natal 
P111 Bioactive compounds - antioxidant activity of tropical fruits Marta Pereira 
P112 Use of non-pharmacological methods to relieve pain in labour Manuela 
Ferreira, Ana R. Prata, Paula Nelas, João Duarte P113 Mechanical safety of 
pacifiers sold in Portuguese pharmacies and childcare stores Juliana Carneiro, 
Ana I. Oliveira, Cláudia Pinho, Cristina Couto, Rita F. Oliveira, Fernando 
Moreira P114 The importance of prenatal consultation: Information to pregnant 
women given on a unit of primary care Ana S. Maia, Michelle T. Oliveira, 
Anderson R. Sousa, Paulo P. Ferreira, Géssica M. Souza, Lívia F. Almada, Milena 
A. Conceição, Eujcely C. Santiago P115 Influence of different backpack loading 
conditions on neck and lumbar muscles activity of elementary school children 
Sandra Rodrigues, Gabriela Domingues, Irina Ferreira, Luís Faria, Adérito Seixas 
P116 Efficacy and safety of dry extract Hedera helix in the treatment of 
productive cough Ana R. Costa, Ângelo Jesus, Américo Cardoso, Alexandra 
Meireles, Armanda Colaço, Agostinho Cruz P117 A portrait of the evaluation 
processes of education groups in primary health care Viviane L. Vieira, Kellem 
R. Vincha, Ana Mª Cervato-Mancuso P118 Benefits of vitamins C and E in 
sensorineural hearing loss: a review Melissa Faria, Cláudia Reis P119 BODY 
SNAPSHOT – a web-integrated anthropometric evaluation system Marco P. Cova, Rita 
T. Ascenso, Henrique A. Almeida, Eunice G. Oliveira P120 Anthropometric 
evaluation and variation during pregnancy Miguel Santana, Rafael Pereira, Eunice 
G. Oliveira, Henrique A. Almeida, Rita T. Ascenso P121 Knowledge of college 
students on the amendments of their eating habits and physical activity index in 
the transition to higher education Rita Jesus, Rodrigo Tapadas, Carolina 
Tim-Tim, Catarina Cezanne, Matilde Lagoa, Sara S. Dias, Jorge Torgal P122 
Muscular activity of a rally race car driver João Lopes, Henrique Almeida, 
Sandra Amado, Luís Carrão O234 Literacy and results in health Madalena Cunha, 
Luís Saboga-Nunes, Carlos Albuquerque, Olivério Ribeiro O235 Literacy promotion 
and empowerment of type 2 diabetics elderly in four family health units of the 
group of health centers of Dão Lafões Suzete Oliveira, Mª Carminda Morais O236 
Mediterranean diet, health and life quality among Portuguese children Emília 
Martins, Francisco Mendes, Rosina Fernandes, Cátia Magalhães, Patrícia Araújo 
O237 Health literacy, from data to action - translation, validation and 
application of the European Health Literacy Survey in Portugal (HLS-EU-PT) Ana 
R. Pedro, Odete Amaral, Ana Escoval O238 Oral health literacy evaluation in a 
Portuguese military population Victor Assunção, Henrique Luís, Luís Luís O239 
Preferences to Internet-based cognitive behavioural therapy – do attachment 
orientations matter? Jennifer Apolinário-Hagen, Viktor Vehreschild O240 A 
comparative transnational study in health literacy between Austria and Portugal 
Ulrike Fotschl, Gerald Lirk, Anabela C. Martins, Isabel Andrade, Fernando Mendes 
O241 Health literacy and social behaviours: relationship with sexually 
transmitted diseases? Verónica Mendonça, Sandra Antunes, Isabel Andrade, Nádia 
Osório, Ana Valado, Armando Caseiro, António Gabriel, Anabela C. Martins, 
Fernando Mendes O242 Parenting styles and attachment to parents: what 
relationships? Paula A. Silva, Lisete M. Mónico, Pedro M. Parreira, Carla 
Carvalho O243 Work-life balance in health professionals and professors: 
comparative study of workers with shift work and fixed schedule Carla Carvalho, 
Pedro M. Parreira, Lisete M. Mónico, Joana Ruivo O244 Technology literacy in 
self-management of diabetes Vânia Silva, Paulino Sousa, José M. Padilha O245 
Satisfaction with therapeutic education and its relationship with clinical 
variables in children with type 1 diabetes Vera Ferraz, Graça Aparício, João 
Duarte O246 Nutrition-related knowledge in middle-age and older patients with 
type 2 diabetes Carlos Vasconcelos, António Almeida, Joel Neves, Telma Correia, 
Helena Amorim, Romeu Mendes O247 Validating the HLS-EU-(PT) questionnaire to 
measure health literacy in adolescents (CrAdLiSa project: HLS-EU-PT) Luís 
Saboga-Nunes, Madalena Cunha, Carlos Albuquerque O248 Health education in people 
with coronary heart disease: Experience of the cardiology department of a 
hospital on the outskirts of Lisbon Elsa S. Pereira, Leonino S. Santos, Ana S. 
Reis, Helena R. Silva, João Rombo, Jorge C. Fernandes, Patrícia Fernandes O249 
Information and training needs of informal caregivers of individuals with stroke 
sequelae: a qualitative survey Jaime Ribeiro, Catarina Mangas, Ana Freire O250 
Prevention of psychoactive substances consumption in students from 6th grade of 
Albergaria-a-Velha´s School Group Sara Silva, Irene Francisco, Ana Oliveira O251 
Promoting healthy sexuality: shared responsibility for family, youth and 
educators Helena Catarino, Mª Anjos Dixe, Mª Clarisse Louro O252 Sexual risk 
behaviour in adolescents and young people Saudade Lopes, Anjos Dixe O253 
Knowledge of school staff on type 1 diabetes Mª Anjos Dixe, Eva Menino, Helena 
Catarino, Fátima Soares, Ana P. Oliveira, Sara Gordo, Teresa Kraus O254 Sexual 
health in adolescents: the impact of information search in literacy Catarina 
Tomás, Paulo Queirós, Teresa Rodrigues P123 Improving basic life support skills 
in adolescents through a training programme Pedro Sousa, João G. Frade, Catarina 
Lobão P124 Difficulties in sexual education reported by basic education teachers 
in the city of Foz do Iguaçu - Brazil Cynthia B. Moura, Laysa C. Dreyer, Vanize 
Meneghetti, Priscila P. Cabral P125 Breast cancer survivors: subjects and 
resources for information. A qualitative systematic review Francisca Pinto, 
Paulino Sousa, Mª Raquel Esteves P126 Relationship between health literacy and 
prevalence of STI in Biomedical Laboratory Science students Sofia Galvão, Ite 
Tytgat, Isabel Andrade, Nádia Osório, Ana Valado, Armando Caseiro, António 
Gabriel, Anabela C. Martins, Fernando Mendes P127 Health literacy, risk 
behaviours and sexually transmitted diseases among blood donors Mónica 
Casas-Novas, Helena Bernardo, Isabel Andrade, Gracinda Sousa, Ana P. Sousa, 
Clara Rocha, Pedro Belo, Nádia Osório, Ana Valado, Armando Caseiro, António 
Gabriel, Anabela C. Martins, Fernando Mendes P128 Promoting literacy in 
pregnancy health-care Fátima Martins, Montserrat Pulido-Fuentes P129 The 
lifestyles of the operating assistants of education Isabel Barroso, Gil Cabral, 
M. João Monteiro, Conceição Rainho P130 Experiences of service-learning health 
and the literary art: reflections about the health education Alessandro Prado, 
Yara M. Carvalho P131 Life long swimming – a European Erasmus + project Maria 
Campos, Liliana Moreira, José Ferreira, Ana Teixeira, Luís Rama

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-016-1423-5
PMCID: PMC4943498
PMID: 27409075


862. PLoS One. 2016 Jul 13;11(7):e0157832. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0157832. 
eCollection 2016.

Treatment of Chronic Hepatitis C in the Aged - Does It Impact Life Expectancy? A 
Decision Analysis.

Maor Y(1), Malnick SD(1)(2), Melzer E(1), Leshno M(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Kaplan Medical Center, Rehovot, 
Israel.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine C, Kaplan Medical Center, Rehovot, Israel.
(3)Faculty of Management and Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, 
Tel Aviv, Israel.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Recent studies have demonstrated that the efficacy of 
interferon-free direct-acting antiviral agents (DAAs) in patients over 70 is 
similar to that of younger age groups. Evidence continues to mount that life 
expectancy (LE) increases with successful treatment of hepatitis C (HCV) 
patients with advanced fibrosis. The evidence in older people is more limited. 
Our aim was to estimate the life year (LY) and quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
gained by treatment of naïve patients with HCV as a function of patient's age 
and fibrosis stage.
METHODS: We constructed a Markov model of HCV progression toward advanced liver 
disease. The primary outcome was LY and QALY saved. The model and the sustained 
virological response of HCV infected subjects treated with a fixed-dose 
combination of the NS5B polymerase inhibitor Sofosbuvir and the NS5A replication 
complex inhibitor Ledipasvir were based on the published literature and expert 
opinion.
RESULTS: Generally, both the number of LY gained and QALY gained gradually 
decreased with advancing age but the rate of decline was slower with more 
advanced fibrosis stage. For patients with fibrosis stage F1, F2 and F3, LY 
gained dropped below six months if treated by the age of 55, 65 or 70 years, 
respectively, while for a patient with fibrosis stage F4, the gain was one LY if 
treated by the age of 75. The QALY gained for treated over untreated elderly 
were reasonably high even for those treated at early fibrosis stage.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a significant life expectancy benefit to HCV treatment in 
patients up to age 75 with advanced-stage fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0157832
PMCID: PMC4943667
PMID: 27410963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


863. Heart. 2016 Nov 1;102(21):1742-1749. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2015-308883. Epub
 2016 Jul 13.

Cost-effectiveness of implantable cardiac devices in patients with systolic 
heart failure.

Mealing S(1), Woods B(2), Hawkins N(1), Cowie MR(3), Plummer CJ(4), Abraham 
WT(5), Beshai JF(6), Klein H(7), Sculpher M(8).

Author information:
(1)ICON Health Economics, ICON Clinical Research (UK) Ltd., Abingdon, UK.
(2)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK.
(3)National Heart & Lung Institute, Imperial College London (Royal Brompton 
Hospital), London, UK.
(4)Cardiothoracic Directorate, Freeman Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, Ohio State University Medical Centre, 
Columbus, Ohio, USA.
(6)Department of Cardiovascular Diseases Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(7)University of Rochester Medical Centre, University of Rochester, New York, 
USA.
(8)ICON Health Economics, ICON Clinical Research (UK) Ltd., Abingdon, UK Centre 
for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of implantable cardioverter 
defibrillators (ICDs), cardiac resynchronisation therapy pacemakers (CRT-Ps) and 
combination therapy (CRT-D) in patients with heart failure with reduced ejection 
fraction based on a range of clinical characteristics.
METHODS: Individual patient data from 13 randomised trials were used to inform a 
decision analytical model. A series of regression equations were used to predict 
baseline all-cause mortality, hospitalisation rates and health-related quality 
of life and device-related treatment effects. Clinical variables used in these 
equations were age, QRS duration, New York Heart Association (NYHA) class, 
ischaemic aetiology and left bundle branch block (LBBB). A UK National Health 
Service perspective and a lifetime time horizon were used. Benefits were 
expressed as quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Results were reported for 24 
subgroups based on LBBB status, QRS duration and NYHA class.
RESULTS: At a threshold of £30 000 per QALY gained, CRT-D was cost-effective in 
10 of the 24 subgroups including all LBBB morphology patients with NYHA 
I/II/III. ICD is cost-effective for all non-NYHA IV patients with QRS duration 
<120 ms and for NYHA I/II non-LBBB morphology patients with QRS duration between 
120 ms and 149 ms. CRT-P was also cost-effective in all NYHA III/IV patients 
with QRS duration >120 ms. Device therapy is cost-effective in most patient 
groups with LBBB at a threshold of £20 000 per QALY gained. Results were robust 
to altering key model parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: At a threshold of £30 000 per QALY gained, CRT-D is cost-effective 
in a far wider group than previously recommended in the UK. In some subgroups 
ICD and CRT-P remain the cost-effective choice.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2015-308883
PMCID: PMC5099208
PMID: 27411837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: BW, SM, and NH were employees of ICON during the 
period of this work. MS is a consultant to ICON. and received payment for his 
involvement in this work. MRC provides consultancy advice to Medtronic, Boston 
Scientific and St. Jude Medical and has had research grants from Medtronic. CJP 
has received research funding and travel grants to attend scientific meetings 
and has provided consultancy advice to Medtronic, Boston Scientific and St. Jude 
Medical. HK has provided consultancy advice and has received research funding 
from Boston Scientific. WA has received consulting fees from St. Jude Medical 
and Biotronik.


864. Inhal Toxicol. 2016 Sep;28(11):481-3. doi: 10.1080/08958378.2016.1197988.
Epub  2016 Jul 13.

Re: "a new time-series methodology for estimating relationships between elderly 
frailty, remaining life expectancy, and ambient air quality".

Goldberg MS(1), Burnett RT(2).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Medicine , McGill University , Montreal , Quebec , Canada 
and.
(2)b Population Studies Division, Health Canada , Ottawa , ON , Canada.

Comment in
    Inhal Toxicol. 2017 Feb;29(3):93-95.

Comment on
    Inhal Toxicol. 2012;24(2):89-98.
    Inhal Toxicol. 2013 Jul;25(8):461-79.

DOI: 10.1080/08958378.2016.1197988
PMID: 27411848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. J Clin Nurs. 2016 Nov;25(21-22):3219-3228. doi: 10.1111/jocn.13345. Epub
2016  Jul 14.

Rhetoric or reality? What nurse practitioners do to provide self-management 
support in outpatient clinics: an ethnographic study.

Ter Maten-Speksnijder AJ(1), Dwarswaard J(2), Meurs PL(3), van Staa A(2).

Author information:
(1)Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences, Rotterdam, the Netherlands. 
speaj@hr.nl.
(2)Erasmus University Rotterdam and Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)iBMG, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: To describe how nurse practitioners enact their role in 
outpatient consultations, and how this compares to their perception of their 
responsibility for patients with chronic conditions.
BACKGROUND: Nurse practitioners working with patients with chronic conditions 
seek to support them in self-managing their diseases.
DESIGN: An ethnographic study.
METHODS: Episodic participant observations (in total 48 hours) were carried out 
combined with formal interviews. The study population consisted of a purposive 
sample of nurse practitioners working in five outpatient clinics related to 
chronic care in one university medical centre in the Netherlands. Two different 
types of clinics were selected, namely (1) for patients with episodic flare-ups 
and (2) for patients with diseases requiring life-saving procedures.
RESULTS: The nurse practitioners perceived the monitoring of patients' treatment 
as their main professional responsibility. Four monitoring strategies could be 
distinguished: 'assessing health conditions', 'connecting with patients', 
'prioritising treatment in daily living' and 'educating patients'.
CONCLUSION: While nurse practitioners considered building a relationship with 
their patients of utmost importance, their consultations were mostly based on a 
conventional medical model of medical history taking. Little attention was paid 
to the social, psychological and behavioural dimensions of illness. Nurse 
practitioners in this study seemed quite successful in their extension into 
medical territory, but moving patients' illness perceptions to the background 
was not conducive to self-management support.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: By their medical subspecialty expertise, nurse 
practitioners have a major role in the longitudinal process of the management of 
chronic diseases' treatment. Supporting patients to reduce the impact of the 
disease and its complications requires nurse practitioners to develop new 
coaching strategies designed to meet patients' individual needs.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jocn.13345
PMID: 27411952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Urologe A. 2016 Aug;55(8):1038-46. doi: 10.1007/s00120-016-0183-5.

[Urogynaecological training situation in Germany : Gap between demand and 
reality].

[Article in German]

Kranz J(1), Schneidewind L(2), Barski D(3), Tahbaz R(4), Huppertz N(5), 
Zerrenner C(6), Grabbert M(7), Mühlstädt S(8), Queissert F(9), Schott S(10), 
Grundl S(11), Boymanns A(12), Steffens J(11), Pelzer AE(13).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Urologie und Kinderurologie, St. Antonius Hospital, Akademisches 
Lehrkrankenhaus der RWTH Aachen, Dechant-Deckers-Straße 8, 52249, Eschweiler, 
Deutschland. jennifer.kranz@sah-eschweiler.de.
(2)Institut für Virologie, Universitätsklinikum des Saarlandes; Universität des 
Saarlandes, Homburg/Saar, Deutschland.
(3)Urologische Klinik, Lukaskrankenhaus Neuss, Neuss, Deutschland.
(4)Klinik für Urologie, Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, 
Deutschland.
(5)Universitätsklinik Bonn, Klinische und Experimentelle 
Forschung/Neurourologie, Bonn, Deutschland.
(6)Klinik für Urologie und Kinderurologie, Klinikum Wilhelmshaven, 
Wilhelmshaven, Deutschland.
(7)Urologische Klinik und Poliklinik, Klinikum der Universität München, München, 
Deutschland.
(8)Urologie, Universitätsklinikum Halle, Halle, Deutschland.
(9)Klinik für Urologie, Universitätsklinik Münster, Münster, Deutschland.
(10)Allgemeine Frauenheilkunde und Geburtshilfe, Universitätsklinikum 
Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Deutschland.
(11)Klinik für Urologie und Kinderurologie, St. Antonius Hospital, Akademisches 
Lehrkrankenhaus der RWTH Aachen, Dechant-Deckers-Straße 8, 52249, Eschweiler, 
Deutschland.
(12)Klinik für Gynäkologie und Geburtshilfe, St. Antonius Hospital, Eschweiler, 
Deutschland.
(13)Klinik für Urologie und Andrologie, Klinikum Wels-Grieskirchen, Wels, 
Deutschland.

BACKGROUND: With increasing life expectancy, progressive demographic change and 
decreasing societal stigmatization of incontinence urologists and gynaecologists 
are increasingly faced with urogynaecological challenges. To date however, 
urogynaecology is a poorly standardized area of expertise in both disciplines. 
Therefore, the urogynaecology training, especially in Germany, is very 
heterogeneous and requires evaluation as well as improvement.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The GeSRU-Academics research group "Functional urology 
and LUTS" evaluated this subject nationwide among urological and gynecological 
trainees and their chief physicians by using a comprehensive questionnaire 
(34/38 multiple-choice items) between April 2015 and May 2016.
RESULTS: 336 urological residents and 190 chief physicians as well as 171 
gynaecological residents and 175 chief physicians participated in the survey. Of 
all trainees, 70.0 % stated a personal interest in urogynaecology, but 45.4 % 
(gynaecological residents) and 52.9 % (urological residents) mention not to 
receive a standardized training in their own department. The chief physicians' 
survey resulted in discrepancies concerning the same question, <10 % of all 
residents do not receive a standardized urogynaecological training from their 
point of view. However, standardized urogynaecological training is of importance 
for those chief physicians.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a discrepancy between expectations and reality of 
urogynaecological education and training. To enable a well-structured and 
standardized urogynaecological education and training, it is compulsory to focus 
on an interdisciplinary cooperation and to promote multidisciplinary 
development. A broad-based, well-designed training network and curricula should 
be established and used consistently.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-016-0183-5
PMID: 27411997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. BMC Cardiovasc Disord. 2016 Jul 13;16:150. doi: 10.1186/s12872-016-0330-3.

Cardiac Rehabilitation for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in 
Western Australia.

Hamilton S(1), Mills B(2), McRae S(3), Thompson S(2).

Author information:
(1)Western Australian Centre for Rural Health, University of Western Australia, 
35 Stirling Highway, Crawley, WA, 6009, Australia. sandy.hamilton@uwa.edu.au.
(2)Western Australian Centre for Rural Health, University of Western Australia, 
35 Stirling Highway, Crawley, WA, 6009, Australia.
(3)National Heart Foundation of Australia, 334 Rokeby Road, Subiaco, WA, 6009, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a leading cause of morbidity and 
mortality in Australia. Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander 
(Indigenous) people have higher levels of CVD compared with non-Indigenous 
people. Cardiac Rehabilitation (CR) is an evidence-based intervention that can 
assist with reducing subsequent cardiovascular events and rehospitalisation. 
Unfortunately, attendance rates at traditional CR programs, both globally and in 
Australia, are estimated to be as low as 10-30 % and Indigenous people are known 
to be particularly under-represented. An in-depth assessment was undertaken to 
investigate the provision of CR and secondary preveniton services in Western 
Australia (WA) with a focus on rural, remote and Indigenous populations. This 
paper reports on the findings for Indigenous people.
METHODS: Cardiac rehabilitation and Aboriginal Medical Services (n = 38) were 
identified for interview through the Heart Foundation Directory of Western 
Australian Cardiac Rehabilitation and Secondary Prevention Services 2012. 
Semi-structured interviews with CR coordinators were conducted and included 
questions specific to Indigenous people.
RESULTS: Interviews with coordinators from 34 CR services (10 rural, 12 remote, 
12 metropolitan) were conducted. Identification of Indigenous status was 
reported by 65 % of coordinators; referral and attendance rates of Indigenous 
patients differed greatly across WA. Efforts to meet the cultural needs of 
Indigenous patients varied and included case management (32 %), specific 
educational materials (35 %), use of a buddy or mentoring system (27 %), and 
access to an Aboriginal Health Worker (71 %). Staff cultural awareness training 
was available for 97 % and CR guidelines were utilised by 77 % of services.
CONCLUSION: The under-representation of Indigenous Australians participating in 
CR, as reported in the literature and more specifically in this study, mandates 
a concerted effort to improve services to better meet the needs of Indigenous 
patients with CVD as part of closing the gap in life expectancy. Improving 
access to culturally appropriate CR and secondary prevention in WA must be an 
important component of this effort given the high rates of premature 
cardiovascular disease affecting Indigenous people. Our findings also highlight 
the importance of good systematic data collection across services. Health 
pathways that ensure continuity of care and alternative methods of CR delivery 
with dedicated resources are needed.

DOI: 10.1186/s12872-016-0330-3
PMCID: PMC4942995
PMID: 27412113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Jul 6;50(7):629-33. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-9624.2016.07.013.

[Impact of liver cancer deaths on life expectancy in 14 counties (districts) 
from the Huai River Basin, 2013: relationship between the water environment and 
liver cancer].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu N(1), Liu YN, Yin P, Wang LJ, Dou YS, Yang WJ, Zhou MG.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, China CDC, Beijing 100050, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the relationship between liver cancer and the water 
environment, we analyzed the life expectancy in 14 counties (districts), which 
form the Huai River Basin with respect to liver cancer deaths in 2013 and 
changes in the surface water quality from 2004 to 2010.
METHODS: The study area included the 14 counties (districts) of the Huai River 
Basin in China. We obtained surveillance data for all causes of death in the 
study area during 2013, as well as data for International Classification of 
Diseases,Tenth Edition(ICD-10) code C22 or liver cancer. Life expectancy and 
life expectancy after elimination of liver cancer were then calculated. Based on 
water quality monitoring data from the China Environment Yearbook 2005-2011, we 
analyzed the water environment of the Huai River Basin, and changes in the water 
quality. According to the " Encyclopedia of Rivers and Lakes in China" (Huai 
River Basin section), we divided the river basin into five categories: upstream 
basin (upstream); midstream, north shore of the basin (midstream-north); 
midstream, south shore of the basin (midstream-south); downstream basin 
(downstream); and the Yishusi River Basin. To calculate the life expectancy and 
life expectancy after elimination of liver cancer in the study area, we used the 
Nemerow Pollution Index (NPI), to investigate the relationship between liver 
cancer and the water environment.
RESULTS: Life expectancy in the 14 study districts varied from 68.99 years 
(Shenqiu County) to 78.85 years (Jinhu County). Gains in life expectancy after 
elimination of liver cancer varied from 0.86 to 0.31 years. Midstream-north 
showed the greatest improvement, with overall gain in life expectancy of 0.77 
years; this gain was 1.04 years for males and 0.40 years for females. Yishusi 
River Basin showed the least improvement, with overall gain in life expectancy 
of 0.41 years; this gain was 0.54 years for males and 0.24 years for females. 
For the 7 years from 2004 to 2010, midstream-north had the highest annual NPI 
values, at 2.08, 1.74, 1.64, 1.81, 1.41, 1.26, and 1.06, respectively. There was 
a positive correlation between NPI and life expectancy gain for both males and 
females (r=0.64, P=0.014). There was positive correlation between NPI and life 
expectancy gain among males alone (r=0.64, P=0.014); there was no significant 
correlation between NPI and life expectancy gain among females (r=0.44, 
P=0.115).
CONCLUSION: Liver cancer had a significant impact on life expectancy in the Huai 
River Basin. The gain in life expectancy was higher for males than for females. 
There is a possible relationship between liver cancer deaths and the water 
environment in the research area, but this study did not infer a causal 
association.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-9624.2016.07.013
PMID: 27412841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. J Food Sci Technol. 2016 Apr;53(4):1798-810. doi: 10.1007/s13197-015-2139-y.
 Epub 2016 Jan 9.

Microbiological stability and quality of pulsed light treated cantaloupe 
(Cucumis melo L. reticulatus cv. Glamour) based on cut type and light fluence.

Koh PC(1), Noranizan MA(1), Karim R(1), Nur Hanani ZA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Technology, Faculty of Food Science and Technology, 
Universiti Putra Malaysia, 43400 Serdang, Selangor Malaysia.

The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of cut type and pulsed light 
(PL) fluence on microbiological stability and quality of fresh-cut cantaloupes. 
Fresh-cut cantaloupes with various cut types (cuboid, triangular prism and 
sphere) were treated with PL technology at 6 J/cm(2). Samples were exposed to PL 
treatment at fluences of 2.7, 7.8, 11.7 and 15.6 J/cm(2) followed by storage at 
4 ± 1 °C for 28 days. Microbiological quality, headspace composition, firmness, 
colour, pH, titratable acidity, total soluble solids, total phenolic content and 
ascorbic acid content of fresh-cut cantaloupes were determined. Spherical shape 
was found to be the most suitable shape for PL treatment of fresh-cut 
cantaloupes due to its significantly lowest (p ≤ 0.05) microbial counts before 
and after the PL treatment. No significant (p > 0.05) effect was observed for 
firmness, colour, total soluble solids and total phenolic content of fresh-cut 
cantaloupes throughout the storage study. Pulsed light treatment using 
7.8 J/cm(2) was the best for extending shelf life of fresh-cut cantaloupes with 
extension of 8 days longer at 4 ± 1 °C compared to the control while maintaining 
the ascorbic acid content. In conclusion, PL treatment is a potential technique 
for extending the shelf life of fresh-cut cantaloupes by inactivating 
microorganisms without compromising the nutritional value.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-015-2139-y
PMCID: PMC4926905
PMID: 27413207


870. J Food Sci Technol. 2016 Apr;53(4):1966-74. doi: 10.1007/s13197-015-2164-x.
Epub  2016 Jan 15.

Postharvest shelf-life extension of pink guavas (Psidium guajava L.) using 
HPMC-based edible surface coatings.

Vishwasrao C(1), Ananthanarayan L(1).

Author information:
(1)Food Engineering and Technology Department, Institute of Chemical Technology, 
Nathalal Parekh Marg, Matunga, Mumbai, 400019 India.

Psidium guajava L. var. 'Lalit' is a perishable fruit with delicate skin which 
is prone to damage. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of 
edible coating made up of hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose and palm oil on 
ripening of guava. Coating solution was applied over fruits and coated fruits 
were stored at 24 ± 1 °C and 65 ± 5%RH. Changes in fruit colour, texture 
softening, respiration rate, weight loss, ascorbic acid content, soluble solids, 
titrable acidity, chlorophyll content, total reducing sugars, total phenolic 
content were studied during post-harvest ripening. Fruits coated with 1 % of 
hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose and 0.3 % of palm oil showed significant delay in 
weight loss, fruit firmness as well as colour change (p < 0.05). Coating delayed 
the enzyme activities of peroxidase and polyphenol oxidase of the fruit. Results 
suggest that overall quality of coated fruit was maintained by edible coating 
formulation extending the shelf life of fruit up to 12 days with appreciable 
retention of all quality parameters tested.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-015-2164-x
PMCID: PMC4926912
PMID: 27413223


871. Prev Med Rep. 2016 May 25;4:87-93. doi: 10.1016/j.pmedr.2016.05.015.
eCollection  2016 Dec.

Impact of work-related cancers in Taiwan-Estimation with QALY (quality-adjusted 
life year) and healthcare costs.

Lee LJ(1), Lin CK(2), Hung MC(3), Wang JD(4).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, National Health Research 
Institutes, Zhunan, Taiwan; Institute of Occupational Medicine and Industrial 
Hygiene, College of Public Health, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan; 
Department of Environmental and Occupational Medicine, National Taiwan 
University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Environmental Health, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public 
Health, United States; Department of Public Health, College of Medicine, 
National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Public Health, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Public Health, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan, Taiwan; Department of Internal Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University Hospital, Tainan, Taiwan; Department of Occupational and 
Environmental Medicine, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, Tainan, Taiwan.

This study estimates the annual numbers of eight work-related cancers, total 
losses of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and lifetime healthcare 
expenditures that possibly could be saved by improving occupational health in 
Taiwan. Three databases were interlinked: the Taiwan Cancer Registry, the 
National Mortality Registry, and the National Health Insurance Research 
Database. Annual numbers of work-related cancers were estimated based on 
attributable fractions (AFs) abstracted from a literature review. The survival 
functions for eight cancers were estimated and extrapolated to lifetime using a 
semi-parametric method. A convenience sample of 8846 measurements of patients' 
quality of life with EQ-5D was collected for utility values and multiplied by 
survival functions to estimate quality-adjusted life expectancies (QALEs). The 
loss-of-QALE was obtained by subtracting the QALE of cancer from age- and 
sex-matched referents simulated from national vital statistics. The lifetime 
healthcare expenditures were estimated by multiplying the survival probability 
with mean monthly costs paid by the National Health Insurance for cancer 
diagnosis and treatment and summing this for the expected lifetime. A total of 
3010 males and 726 females with eight work-related cancers were estimated in 
2010. Among them, lung cancer ranked first in terms of QALY loss, with an annual 
total loss-of-QALE of 28,463 QALYs and total lifetime healthcare expenditures of 
US$36.6 million. Successful prevention of eight work-related cancers would not 
only avoid the occurrence of 3736 cases of cancer, but would also save more than 
US$70 million in healthcare costs and 46,750 QALYs for the Taiwan society in 
2010.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pmedr.2016.05.015
PMCID: PMC4929078
PMID: 27413666


872. Prev Med Rep. 2016 Jun 7;4:142-7. doi: 10.1016/j.pmedr.2016.06.005.
eCollection  2016 Dec.

The association between social participation and lower extremity muscle 
strength, balance, and gait speed in US adults.

Warren M(1), Ganley KJ(2), Pohl PS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy and Athletic Training, Northern Arizona 
University, Po Box 15105, Flagstaff, AZ, USA.
(2)Department of Physical Therapy and Athletic Training, Northern Arizona 
University, Phoenix, AZ, USA.

Social participation is associated with healthy aging, and although associations 
have been reported between social participation and demographics, no published 
studies have examined a relationship between social participation and measures 
amenable to intervention. The purpose was to explore the association between 
self-reported social participation and lower extremity strength, balance, and 
gait speed. A cross-sectional analysis of US adults (n = 2291; n = 1,031 males; 
mean ± standard deviation age 63.5 ± 0.3 years) from the 2001-2 National Health 
and Nutrition Examination Survey was conducted. Two questions about 
self-reported difficulty with social participation were categorized into limited 
(yes/no). The independent variables included knee extension strength (n = 1537; 
classified as tertiles of weak, normal, and strong), balance (n = 1813; 3 tests 
scored as pass/fail), and gait speed (n = 2025; dichotomized as slow [less than 
1.0 m/s] and fast [greater than or equal to 1.0 m/s]). Logistic regression, 
accounting for the complex survey design and adjusting for age, sex, physical 
activity, and medical conditions, was used to estimate the odds of limitation in 
social participation with each independent variable. Alpha was decreased to 0.01 
due to multiple tests. Slower gait speed was significantly associated with 
social participation limitation (odds ratio = 3.1; 99% confidence interval: 
1.5-6.2). No significant association was found with social participation and 
lower extremity strength or balance. The odds of having limitation in social 
participation were 3 times greater in those with slow gait speed. Prospective 
studies should examine the effect of improved gait speed on levels of social 
participation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pmedr.2016.06.005
PMCID: PMC4929072
PMID: 27413675


873. Visc Med. 2016 Apr;32(2):121-6. doi: 10.1159/000444990. Epub 2016 Apr 5.

Antiviral Therapy in Patients with Viral Hepatitis and Hepatocellular Carcinoma: 
Indications and Prognosis.

Roderburg C(1), Tacke F(1), Trautwein C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine III, University Hospital RWTH Aachen, Aachen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Chronic hepatitis B and C infections represent major risk factors 
for the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Recently, the management 
of patients with viral hepatitis has dramatically changed. In the present review 
we discuss the impact of these developments on the prevention of HCC as well as 
the treatment of patients with HCC.
METHODS: Studies indexed in Medline between 1990 and 2015 (November) were 
reviewed. The terms 'hepatocellular carcinoma', 'HCC', 'hepatitis B', 'hepatitis 
C', 'viral hepatitis', and combinations of these terms were used.
RESULTS: Patients with chronic hepatitis B or hepatitis C without HCC should be 
evaluated for antiviral therapy, since antiviral therapy was suggested to reduce 
the risk of HCC development. Cirrhotic patients infected with hepatitis B virus 
(HBV) require antiviral therapy, while cirrhotics infected with hepatitis C 
virus (HCV) need to be prioritized for therapy with interferon (IFN)-free 
regimens. Antiviral therapy should be considered in HBV-infected patients with 
HCC, especially to prevent tumor recurrence after curative-intended therapy or 
to prevent hepatic decompensation. HCV-infected patients with HCC should be 
considered in similar intention for IFN-free antiviral therapy, depending on the 
tumor stage and life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: Patients with viral hepatitis should be considered for antiviral 
treatment for the prevention of HCC development as well as during HCC treatment.

DOI: 10.1159/000444990
PMCID: PMC4926886
PMID: 27413730


874. Hematology. 1998;3(5):355-63. doi: 10.1080/10245332.1998.11746409.

The Role of Allogeneic Transplantation in the Treatment of Multiple Myeloma.

Majolino I(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Hematology and BMT Unit , Ospedale V. Cervello, Palermo , 
Italy.

In multiple myeloma (MM) attempts to improve upon the results of standard 
melphalanpredisone with other conventional dose drug combinations, have 
generally been unsuccessful, producing only minor improvements in response rate, 
with little effect on survival. The only treatment capable of producing a 
dramatic change in response and life expectancy is high-dose chemo-radiotherapy 
followed by stem cell transplantation. However, after autologous transplant 
relapse will almost inevitably occur, and freedom from recurrence curves show no 
plateau in most studies. Besides the resistance of the disease to chemotherapy, 
another possible explanation is tumor contamination of the graft. This is one 
major advantage of allogeneic transplantation over autologous, the other being 
an immune mediated mechanism of tumor suppression in part related to GVHD. 
Application of allogeneic transplantation to MM has met a number of obstacles, 
but is now entering a phase of reappraisal, due in part to a tendency to earlier 
transplantation, in part to the use of novel technologies such as allogeneic 
peripheral blood stem cells instead of marrow. The goal should be the reduction 
of transplant related deaths, to better exploit the higher eradication potential 
of allogeneic cell therapies. The most intriguing perspectives are those related 
to immune manipulation of recipient and/or donor.

DOI: 10.1080/10245332.1998.11746409
PMID: 27414079


875. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2016 Oct;25(10):1189-200. doi: 
10.1080/13543784.2016.1212837. Epub 2016 Aug 2.

Investigational protease inhibitors as antiretroviral therapies.

Midde NM(1), Patters BJ(1), Rao P(2), Cory TJ(3), Kumar S(1).

Author information:
(1)a Pharmaceutical Sciences , University of Tennessee Health Science Center , 
Memphis , TN , USA.
(2)b Pharmaceutical Science , College of Pharmacy, University of Findlay , 
Findlay , OH , USA.
(3)c Clinical Pharmacy , University of Tennessee Health Science Center , Memphis 
, TN , USA.

INTRODUCTION: Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART) has tremendously 
improved the life expectancy of the HIV-infected population over the past three 
decades. Protease inhibitors have been one of the major classes of drugs in 
HAART regimens that are effective in treating HIV. However, the emergence of 
resistance and cross-resistance against protease inhibitors encourages 
researchers to develop new PIs with broad-spectrum activity, as well as novel 
means of enhancing the efficacy of existing PIs.
AREAS COVERED: In this article we discuss recent advances in HIV protease 
inhibitor (PI) development, focusing on both investigational and experimental 
agents. We also include a section on pharmacokinetic booster drugs for improved 
bioavailability of protease inhibitors. Further, we discuss novel drug delivery 
systems using a variety of nanocarriers for the delivery of PIs across the 
blood-brain barrier to treat the HIV in the brain.
EXPERT OPINION: We discuss our opinion on the promises and challenges on the 
development of novel investigational and experimental PIs that are less toxic 
and more effective in combating drug-resistance. Further, we discuss the future 
of novel nanocarriers that have been developed to deliver PIs to the brain 
cells. Although these are promising findings, many challenges need to be 
overcome prior to making them a viable option.

DOI: 10.1080/13543784.2016.1212837
PMCID: PMC5228633
PMID: 27415449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interest The authors have no 
relevant affiliations or financial involvement with any organization or entity 
with a financial interest in or financial conflict with the subject matter or 
materials discussed in the manuscript.


876. Blood Transfus. 2017 May;15(3):254-258. doi: 10.2450/2016.0328-15. Epub 2017
Jul  5.

Acquired red blood cell alloantibodies in transfused patients of 80 years or 
over: a 2008-2013 national haemovigilance survey.

Moncharmont P(1), Barday G(1), Py JY(2), Meyer F(1); National Haemovigilance 
Network of the French Blood Establishment.

Author information:
(1)French Blood Establishment, Rhône Alpes Auvergne Blood Bank, Lyon, France.
(2)French Blood Establishment, Central Atlantic Blood Bank, Orléans, France.

BACKGROUND: As transfusion in the elderly patients has increased over the last 
decades, and with the aim of improving blood policy, post-transfusion red blood 
cell alloimmunisation, a delayed serological transfusion reaction, was 
investigated in patients 80 years old or over.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: For every adverse reaction to a transfusion, a report is 
sent to the French haemovigilance database. All cases of red blood cell 
alloimmunisation reported in the haemovigilance database were collected, and an 
analysis was performed on those cases in transfused patients 80 years old or 
over.
RESULTS: There were 11,625 reports of red blood cell alloimmunisation from 1 
January, 2008 to 31 December, 2013, of which 3,617 (31.1%) occurred in patients 
80 years old or over. Among this subgroup, red blood cell concentrates were the 
most frequently involved blood component (3,482 reports, 96.3%). Red blood cell 
alloimmunisation after transfusion of platelet concentrates was also notified 
(132 reports, 3.7%). Anti-KEL1 was the most frequent antibody (874 reports, 
24.2%). The imputability of the blood component was certain in 2,340 cases 
(64.7%) and probable in 1,078 (29.8%). In 2013, the incidence of red blood cell 
alloimmunisation was 4.14 per 1,000 transfused patients aged 80 years old or 
over.
DISCUSSION: In a 6-year national survey in which 40,570 reports were made, there 
were 3,617 cases of red blood cell alloimmunisation in transfused recipients of 
80 years old or over. This delayed serological transfusion reaction is not rare. 
Red blood cell concentrates were predominantly involved, but cases caused by 
platelet concentrates were also described. In order to prevent alloimmunisation 
in the elderly, several factors must be evaluated before transfusing matched red 
blood cell concentrates: the patient's age, pathology and its outcome, the type 
of transfusion support (chronic or not), life expectancy, and blood product 
availability.

DOI: 10.2450/2016.0328-15
PMCID: PMC5448832
PMID: 27416567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The Authors declare no conflicts of interest.


877. Arch Esp Urol. 2016 Jul;69(6):260-70.

[Low and intermediate risk prostate cancer: Treatment options].

[Article in Spanish]

Miñana-López B(1), Reina-Alcaina L(2), Rivero-Guerra A(2), Rosino-Sánchez A(2), 
Izquierdo-Morejón E(2), Pietricica B(2).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urología. Hospital Universitario Morales Meseguer. Universidad 
Católica San Antonio (UCAM). Murcia.
(2)Servicio de Urología. Hospital Universitario Morales Meseguer. Murcia. 
España.

Patients with low and intermediate risk prostate cancer are the most frequently 
diagnosed group currently. In those with a life expectancy inferior to 10 years 
it is highly likely that treatment is not necessary so that observation must be 
the most appropriate approach. In patients in whom active therapy, in any of its 
forms, is indicated, it is necessary to balance between risk of dying or 
developing metastases from the disease and adverse effects of commonly accepted 
radical treatments, such as radical prostatectomy and external beam or 
interstitial radiotherapy. The significant incidence of associated morbidity, 
mainly erectile dysfunction and urinary incontinence, with high impact on 
quality of life, demands this approach in the field of decisions shared with 
patients. The risk of overtreatment in this group of patients has generated the 
introduction of more conservative approaches such as active surveillance and 
focal therapy. The first one tries to differ radical treatments as far as there 
are not enough aggressiveness criteria on the tumor or the patient requests 
them. The second, called to have a place between active surveillance and radical 
treatments, involves the performance of a partial ablation of the prostate to 
avoid the adverse effects of radical treatments, trying to achieve the closest 
oncological control to the radical options. We perform a review of the 
therapeutic options and their results in this type of patients.

PMID: 27416643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Med Confl Surviv. 2016 Jan-Mar;32(1):70-9. doi:
10.1080/13623699.2016.1207868.  Epub 2016 Jul 14.

Can the health of a nation be correlated to its state of internal peace?

Boulton F(1), Louise N(2).

Author information:
(1)a Medact, Grayston Centre , London , UK.
(2)b Peace Direct , London , UK.

The Institute for Economics and Peace has ranked 162 territories within the 
United Nations according to how they score on a scale of 1.0 (most peaceful) to 
5.0 (least peaceful) in a 'Global Peace Index' (GPI). The GPI 2015 values range 
from 1.148 (Iceland) to 3.645 (Syria). In this pilot study, we report 
significant correlations (Spearman rank coefficients) between each country's GPI 
and indicators of the health of its citizens (life expectancies, death rates and 
health expenditures): these significances are marginally enhanced when 
Sub-Saharan African countries are excluded. Our findings may indicate avenues 
for promoting a healthy global society, but more detailed and comprehensive 
analyses should be conducted in order for the factors behind the correlations to 
be identified and applied with more certainty.

DOI: 10.1080/13623699.2016.1207868
PMID: 27416918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Am J Hum Biol. 2017 Jan;29(1). doi: 10.1002/ajhb.22895. Epub 2016 Jul 15.

Assessment of cardiovascular risk factors in a Roma community from Southwestern 
France.

Papon C(1), Delarche N(2), Le Borgne C(3), Bauduer F(4).

Author information:
(1)Collège des sciences de la vie et de la santé, Université de Bordeaux, 146 
Rue Léo Saignat, 33076, Bordeaux Cedex, France.
(2)Centre Hospitalier de Pau, Service de cardiologie, 4 Boulevard Hauterive, 
64000, Pau, France.
(3)Cabinet de Médecine générale, 78 Avenue du Général Leclerc, 64000, Pau, 
France.
(4)UMR 5199 PACEA, Université de Bordeaux, Allée Geoffroy Saint Hilaire, 33615, 
Pessac Cedex, France.

OBJECTIVES: Roma from Central-Eastern Europe experience a reduced life 
expectancy in comparison with the general population. Predisposing 
cardiovascular risk factors could be the underlying reason for this. Here for 
the first time epidemiologic data on the distribution of cardiovascular risk 
factors in a subgroup of French Roma has been presented.
METHODS: A descriptive epidemiological field survey was conducted in the 
Manouche community of Pau, Southwestern France. Fifty participants were included 
(17 men and 33 women) all living in caravans. A questionnaire to ask for 
demographic and health information was used, and biometric measurements were 
took in order to assess cardiovascular risk factors.
RESULTS: Our sample included 18% diabetics, 32% people suffering from 
hypertension, 28% subjects with hypercholesterolemia, and 34% smokers. The 
prevalence of overweight and obesity was, respectively, 40% and 38% and that of 
abdominal obesity 64%. These frequencies were about twice those found in the 
general French population.
CONCLUSION: Although our sample was of limited size, our data suggest that 
French Manouches express a high-risk profile regarding cardiovascular disease, 
as has been reported for Roma from various countries. Both intrinsic and 
environmental factors may explain this.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.22895
PMID: 27417144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Infect Dis (Lond). 2016 Nov-Dec;48(11-12):829-37. doi: 
10.1080/23744235.2016.1201722. Epub 2016 Jul 15.

Low-dose growth hormone therapy reduces inflammation in HIV-infected patients: a 
randomized placebo-controlled study.

Lindboe JB(1), Langkilde A(1), Eugen-Olsen J(2), Hansen BR(2)(3), Haupt TH(1), 
Petersen J(1)(4), Andersen O(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)a Optimed, Clinical Research Centre 056, Copenhagen University Hospital 
Hvidovre , Hvidovre , Denmark ;
(2)b Clinical Research Centre 056, Copenhagen University Hospital Hvidovre , 
Hvidovre , Denmark ;
(3)c Department of Infectious Diseases , Copenhagen University Hospital Hvidovre 
, Hvidovre , Denmark ;
