
794. Politics Life Sci. 2016 Spring;35(1):1-26. doi: 10.1017/pls.2016.6.

The evolution of offensive realism.

Johnson DD(1), Phil D(1), Thayer BA(2).

Author information:
(1)* Department of Politics and International Relations, University of Oxford.
(2)† Stjórnmálafræðideild/Department of Political Science, Háskóli 
Íslands/University of Iceland.

Offensive realism, a theory of international relations, holds that states are 
disposed to competition and conflict because they are self-interested, power 
maximizing, and fearful of other states. Moreover, it argues that states are 
obliged to behave this way because doing so favors survival in the international 
system. Debate continues as to whether modern states actually do, or should, 
behave in this way, but we are struck by a different question. In this article, 
we ask whether the three core assumptions about behavior in offensive 
realism-self-help, power maximization, and outgroup fear-have any basis in 
scientific knowledge about human behavioral evolution. We find that these 
precise traits are not only evolutionarily adaptive but also empirically common 
across the animal kingdom, especially in primate and human societies. Based on 
these findings, we hypothesize that states behave as offensive realists predict 
not just because of anarchy in the modern international system but also because 
of the legacy of our evolution. In short, offensive realism may really be 
describing the nature of the human species more than the nature of the 
international system. If our hypothesis is correct, then evolutionary theory 
offers the following: (1) a novel ultimate cause of offensive realist behavior; 
(2) an extension of offensive realism to any domain in which humans compete for 
power; and (3) an explanation for why individual leaders themselves, and not 
just states, seek power. However, a key insight from evolution is that the 
primacy of self-help, power maximization, and outgroup fear does not necessarily 
condemn individuals or groups to competition and conflict; rather, these traits 
can in themselves give rise to cooperation and alliances.

DOI: 10.1017/pls.2016.6
PMID: 27378020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2016 Jun;65(4):1-122.

Deaths: Final Data for 2014.

Kochanek KD, Murphy SL, Xu J, Tejada-Vera B.

Objectives-This report presents final 2014 data on U.S. deaths, death rates, 
life expectancy, infant mortality, and trends, by selected characteristics such 
as age, sex, Hispanic origin, race, state of residence, and cause of death.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 27378572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Front Neurosci. 2016 Jun 14;10:234. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2016.00234.
eCollection  2016.

Effects of Body Mass Index and Body Fat Percent on Default Mode, Executive 
Control, and Salience Network Structure and Function.

Figley CR(1), Asem JS(2), Levenbaum EL(3), Courtney SM(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of ManitobaWinnipeg, MB, Canada; 
Biomedical Engineering Graduate Program, University of ManitobaWinnipeg, MB, 
Canada; Neuroscience Research Program, Kleysen Institute for Advanced Medicine, 
Winnipeg Health Sciences CentreWinnipeg, MB, Canada; Department of Psychological 
and Brain Sciences, Johns Hopkins UniversityBaltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Johns Hopkins 
UniversityBaltimore, MD, USA; Department of Neurobiology and Behavior, 
University of CaliforniaIrvine, CA, USA; Center for the Neurobiology of Learning 
and Memory, University of CaliforniaIrvine, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Johns Hopkins 
UniversityBaltimore, MD, USA; School of Medicine and Dentistry, University of 
Rochester Medical CenterRochester, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Johns Hopkins 
UniversityBaltimore, MD, USA; Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, 
Johns Hopkins UniversityBaltimore, MD, USA; F. M. Kirby Research Center for 
Functional Brain Imaging, Kennedy Krieger InstituteBaltimore, MD, USA.

It is well established that obesity decreases overall life expectancy and 
increases the risk of several adverse health conditions. Mounting evidence 
indicates that body fat is likely also associated with structural and functional 
brain changes, reduced cognitive function, and greater impulsivity. However, 
previously reported differences in brain structure and function have been 
variable across studies and difficult to reconcile due to sample population and 
methodological differences. To clarify these issues, we correlated two 
independent measures of body composition-i.e., body mass index (BMI) and body 
fat percent (BFP)-with structural and functional neuroimaging data obtained from 
a cohort of 32 neurologically healthy adults. Whole-brain voxel-wise analyses 
indicated that higher BMI and BFP were associated with widespread decreases in 
gray matter volume, white matter volume, and white matter microstructure 
(including several regions, such as the striatum and orbitofrontal cortex, which 
may influence value assessment, habit formation, and decision-making). Moreover, 
closer examination of resting state functional connectivity, white matter 
volume, and white matter microstructure throughout the default mode network 
(DMN), executive control network (ECN), and salience network (SN) revealed that 
higher BMI and BFP were associated with increased SN functional connectivity and 
decreased white matter volumes throughout all three networks (i.e., the DMN, 
ECN, and SN). Taken together, these findings: (1) offer a biologically plausible 
explanation for reduced cognitive performance, greater impulsivity, and altered 
reward processing among overweight individuals, and (2) suggest neurobiological 
mechanisms (i.e., altered functional and structural brain connectivity) that may 
affect overweight individuals' ability to establish and maintain healthy 
lifestyle choices.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2016.00234
PMCID: PMC4906227
PMID: 27378831


797. Lifetime Data Anal. 2017 Oct;23(4):671-691. doi: 10.1007/s10985-016-9372-1.
Epub  2016 Jul 5.

L₁ splitting rules in survival forests.

Moradian H(1), Larocque D(2), Bellavance F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Decision Sciences, HEC Montréal, 3000 chemin de la 
Côte-Sainte-Catherine, Montreal, QC, H3T 2A7, Canada.
(2)Department of Decision Sciences, HEC Montréal, 3000 chemin de la 
Côte-Sainte-Catherine, Montreal, QC, H3T 2A7, Canada. denis.larocque@hec.ca.

The log-rank test is used as the split function in many commonly used survival 
trees and forests algorithms. However, the log-rank test may have a significant 
loss of power in some circumstances, especially when the hazard functions or 
when the survival functions cross each other in the two compared groups. We 
investigate the use of the integrated absolute difference between the two 
children nodes survival functions as the splitting rule. Simulations studies and 
applications to real data sets show that forests built with this rule produce 
very good results in general, and that they are often better compared to forests 
built with the log-rank splitting rule.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-016-9372-1
PMID: 27379423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Am J Epidemiol. 2016 Aug 1;184(3):219-26. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwv319. Epub 2016
Jul  5.

Socioeconomic Disparities and Mortality After a Diagnosis of Dementia: Results 
From a Nationwide Registry Linkage Study.

van de Vorst IE, Koek HL, Stein CE, Bots ML, Vaartjes I.

Low socioeconomic status (SES) has been linked to a higher incidence of 
dementia. Less is known about the association between SES and mortality in 
persons with dementia. We studied this association in a prospective cohort of 
15,558 patients in the Netherlands between 2000 and 2010. SES was measured using 
disposable household income and divided in tertiles. Overall, there was a 
negative relationship between SES and mortality in both sexes and both settings 
of care. For men who visited a day clinic, the 5-year mortality rate was 74% 
among those in the lowest tertile of SES and 57% among those in the highest; for 
women, the rates were 60% and 50%, respectively. The differences in median 
survival times between persons in the lower and upper tertiles of SES were 260 
days for men and 300 days for women. For men who were admitted to the hospital, 
the 5-year mortality rate was 89% among those in the lowest tertile of SES and 
86% among those in the highest; for women, the rates were 83% and 77%, 
respectively. The differences in median survival times between persons in the 
lower and upper tertiles of SES were 80 days for men and 130 days for women. 
Among patients who visited a day clinic, for patients in the lowest tertile of 
SES versus those in the highest, the adjusted hazard ratio was 1.41 (95% 
confidence interval: 1.26, 1.57); for those admitted to the hospital, it was 
1.14 (95% confidence interval: 1.07, 1.20). In summary, lower SES was associated 
with a higher mortality risk in both men and women with dementia. The results of 
the present study should raise awareness in clinicians and caregivers about the 
unfavorable prognosis in the most deprived patients.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Johns 
Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwv319
PMID: 27380760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Exp Gerontol. 2016 Sep;82:139-49. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2016.07.001. Epub
2016  Jul 2.

Peptides from sesame cake extend healthspan of Caenorhabditis elegans via 
upregulation of skn-1 and inhibition of intracellular ROS levels.

Wang Z(1), Ma X(2), Li J(3), Cui X(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Shanxi University, Taiyuan 030006, Shanxi, PR China; 
Key Laboratory of Chemical Biology and Molecular Engineering of Ministry of 
Education, Institute of Biotechnology, Shanxi University, Taiyuan 030006, 
Shanxi, PR China. Electronic address: zhwang@sxu.edu.cn.
(2)School of Life Science, Shanxi University, Taiyuan 030006, Shanxi, PR China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Chemical Biology and Molecular Engineering of Ministry of 
Education, Institute of Biotechnology, Shanxi University, Taiyuan 030006, 
Shanxi, PR China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Chemical Biology and Molecular Engineering of Ministry of 
Education, Institute of Biotechnology, Shanxi University, Taiyuan 030006, 
Shanxi, PR China. Electronic address: cuixiaodong@sxu.edu.cn.

The peptides from sesame cake (PSC) which are the main by-product of 
agricultural processing of sesame were prepared. To evaluate benefits of PSC for 
health and longevity, antioxidant activity and anti-aging effects were studied 
in vitro and in a Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) model system. PSC 
exhibited antioxidant activity in vitro, and induced beneficial effects on 
lifespan and several health parameters of C.elegans, including pharyngeal 
pumping rate, locomotion and lipofuscin accumulation. In a mev-1 mutant, PSC 
increased lifespan, and it enhanced oxidative stress tolerance in wild-type 
nematodes. After treatment with PSC, SOD activity, GSH content, and GSH/GSSG 
ratio were increased, leading to low intracellular ROS levels in C. elegans. PSC 
up-regulated skn-1 mRNA, and its target gene gcs-1, and abolished the extension 
of lifespan in skn-1 mutant, indicating that PSC-mediated longevity is dependent 
on activation of the skn-1/Nrf-2 transcription factor. Current results warrant 
research into the use of PSC as nutraceuticals for overall health improvement.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2016.07.001
PMID: 27381188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Clin Appl Thromb Hemost. 2017 Oct;23(7):871-875. doi:
10.1177/1076029616655616.  Epub 2016 Jul 4.

Prevalence and Risk Factors Associated With Hypertension in Hemophilia: 
Cross-Sectional Analysis of a National Discharge Register.

Seaman CD(1)(2), Apostolova M(3), Yabes J(4), Comer DM(4), Ragni MV(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of 
Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(2)2 Hemophilia Center of Western Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(3)3 Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, West Penn 
Allegheny Health Network, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(4)4 Center for Research on Health Care Data Center, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Improved life expectancy of persons with hemophilia (PWHs) has led 
to a greater interest in the role of age-related chronic diseases, such as 
hypertension, in this cohort. Several observational studies have reported an 
increased prevalence of hypertension in PWHs; however, this has not been 
assessed using a large, national database in the United States.
AIMS: We hypothesized the prevalence of hypertension is increased in PWHs and 
compared the prevalence of hypertension and associated risk factors among 
patients with and without hemophilia.
METHODS: A cross-sectional analysis was performed using discharge data among 
adult males from the National Inpatient Sample over the 3-year period, 2009 to 
2011. Hypertension was compared across groups using Rao-Scott χ2 test. 
Multivariable logistic regression was used to estimate the odds of hypertension 
in patients with hemophilia after adjustment for hypertension-associated risk 
factors.
RESULTS: The prevalence of hypertension in patients with hemophilia was less 
than the prevalence of hypertension in patients without hemophilia (39.5% vs 
56.3%, P < .001). Hemophilia was associated with a decreased odds of 
hypertension after adjusting for associated risk factors (odds ratio: 0.87; 95% 
confidence interval: 0.81-0.94).
CONCLUSION: In contrast to the findings of several other recent studies, we 
report a decreased prevalence of hypertension in PWHs. The discrepancy among the 
reported prevalence of hypertension in our study and several others highlights 
the potential biases inherent to retrospective and cross-sectional studies and 
underscores the need for well-designed prospective studies to determine the true 
incidence of hypertension in PWHs, which may lie somewhere in between our 
findings and the findings of others.

DOI: 10.1177/1076029616655616
PMID: 27381754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Duodecim. 2016;132(10):912-6.

[Novel approved form of treatment for colonic cancer with peritoneal metastases 
- radicality-aimed surgery combined with hyperthermic intraperitoneal 
chemotherapy].

[Article in Finnish]

Lepistö A.

Carcinomatosis occurs in almost 10% of colonic cancer patients, whereby the 
five-year survival rate on cytostatic chemotherapy is approx. 13% at best. For 
patients having carcinomatosis restricted to a fairly small area, surgical 
removal of peritoneal metastases combined with hyperthermic intraperitoneal 
chemotherapy (HIPEC) may be a curative procedure. The treatment has resulted in 
a five-year life expectancy of 30 to 35% for selected patients. The treatment 
is, however, associated with significant morbidity and even mortality. 
Colorectal cancer patients diagnosed with restricted peritoneal carcinomatosis 
should be referred to an assessment for HPEC treatment.

PMID: 27382828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. J Biosoc Sci. 2017 Jul;49(4):536-555. doi: 10.1017/S002193201600033X. Epub
2016  Jul 7.

THE CAUSAL RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN CONSANGUINEOUS MARRIAGES AND INFANT MORTALITY IN 
TURKEY.

Koç İ(1), Eryurt MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Hacettepe University Institute of Population Studies,Ankara,Turkey.

Erratum in
    J Biosoc Sci. 2017 Jul;49(4):556.

Turkey has high levels of infant mortality and consanguineous marriages. It has 
had a high level of infant mortality for its economic level for many years. Over 
recent decades, although adult mortality rates have not been very different from 
those of other countries with similar socioeconomic structures, its life 
expectancy at birth has remained low due to its high infant mortality rate. This 
has been called the Turkish Puzzle. According to the Turkey Family Structure and 
Population Issues Survey, 27% of women had a consanguineous marriage in 1968. 
Subsequent Turkish Demographic and Health Surveys (TDHSs) found the rate of 
consanguineous marriages to be stagnated at 22-24%, with a resistance to 
reduction. According to the TDHS-2008, 24% of women had a consanguineous 
marriage. Numerous studies in various countries of the world have indicated that 
consanguineous marriages, particularly of first-degree, have the effect of 
increasing infant mortality. The main aim of this study was to assess the causal 
impact of consanguineous, particularly first-degree consanguineous, marriages on 
infant mortality, controlling for individual, cultural, bio-demographic and 
environmental factors. Data were merged from four Turkish DHS data sets (1993, 
1998, 2003 and 2008). Multivariate analysis revealed that first-degree 
consanguineous marriages have increased infant mortality by 45% in Turkey: 57% 
in urban areas and 39% in rural areas. The results indicate that there is a 
causal relationship between consanguineous marriages and infant mortality. This 
finding should be taken into account when planning policies to reduce infant 
mortality in Turkey, and in other countries with high rates of consanguineous 
marriage and infant mortality.

DOI: 10.1017/S002193201600033X
PMID: 27382977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Demography. 2016 Aug;53(4):1109-34. doi: 10.1007/s13524-016-0488-4.

Life Expectancy Among U.S.-born and Foreign-born Older Adults in the United 
States: Estimates From Linked Social Security and Medicare Data.

Mehta NK(1), Elo IT(2), Engelman M(3), Lauderdale DS(4), Kestenbaum BM(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health, Emory University, Claudia Nance Rollins 
Building, 1518 Clifton Road, Room 7035, Atlanta, GA, 30322, USA. 
nkmehta@emory.edu.
(2)Population Aging Research Center and Population Studies Center, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(3)Department of Sociology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(4)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, 
USA.
(5)Office of the Chief Actuary, Social Security Administration, Baltimore, MD, 
USA.

In recent decades, the geographic origins of America's foreign-born population 
have become increasingly diverse. The sending countries of the U.S. foreign-born 
vary substantially in levels of health and economic development, and immigrants 
have arrived with distinct distributions of socioeconomic status, visa type, 
year of immigration, and age at immigration. We use high-quality linked Social 
Security and Medicare records to estimate life tables for the older U.S. 
population over the full range of birth regions. In 2000-2009, the foreign-born 
had a 2.4-year advantage in life expectancy at age 65 relative to the U.S.-born, 
with Asian-born subgroups displaying exceptionally high longevity. Foreign-born 
individuals who migrated more recently had lower mortality compared with those 
who migrated earlier. Nonetheless, we also find remarkable similarities in life 
expectancy among many foreign-born subgroups that were born in very different 
geographic and socioeconomic contexts (e.g., Central America, western/eastern 
Europe, and Africa).

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-016-0488-4
PMCID: PMC5026916
PMID: 27383845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Oncotarget. 2016 Sep 13;7(37):59173-59188. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.10384.

Tumor cells derived exosomes contain hTERT mRNA and transform nonmalignant 
fibroblasts into telomerase positive cells.

Gutkin A(1), Uziel O(1)(2), Beery E(1), Nordenberg J(1)(2), Pinchasi M(1)(2), 
Goldvaser H(1)(3), Henick S(1), Goldberg M(4), Lahav M(1)(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)The Felsenstein Medical Research Center, Rabin Medical Center, Petah Tikva, 
Israel.
(2)Sackler School of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Petah Tikva, Israel.
(3)Institute of Oncology, Davidoff Cancer Center, Rabin Medical Center, Petah 
Tikva, Israel.
(4)Department of Genetics, Institute of Life Sciences, Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem, Petah Tikva, Israel.
(5)Institute of Hematology, Davidoff Cancer Center, Rabin Medical Center, Petah 
Tikva, Israel.

Exosomes are small (30-100nm) vesicles secreted from all cell types serving as 
inter-cell communicators and affecting biological processes in "recipient" cells 
upon their uptake. The current study demonstrates for the first time that hTERT 
mRNA, the transcript of the enzyme telomerase, is shuttled from cancer cells via 
exosomes into telomerase negative fibroblasts, where it is translated into a 
fully active enzyme and transforms these cells into telomerase positive, thus 
creating a novel type of cells; non malignant cells with telomerase activity. 
All tested telomerase positive cells, including cancer cells and non malignant 
cells with overexpressed telomerase secreted exosomal hTERT mRNA in accordance 
with the endogenous levels of their hTERT mRNA and telomerase activity. 
Similarly exosomes isolated from sera of patients with pancreatic and lung 
cancer contained hTERT mRNA as well. Telomerase activity induced phenotypic 
changes in the recipient fibroblasts including increased proliferation, 
extension of life span and postponement of senescence. In addition, telomerase 
activity protected the fibroblasts from DNA damage induced by phleomycin and 
from apoptosis, indicating that also telomerase "extracurricular" activities are 
manifested in the recipient cells. The shuttle of telomerase from cancer cells 
into fibroblasts and the induction of these changes may contribute to the 
alterations of cancer microenvironment and its role in cancer. The described 
process has an obvious therapeutic potential which will be explored in further 
studies.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.10384
PMCID: PMC5312303
PMID: 27385095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


805. Thorac Cancer. 2016 Jul;7(4):393-8. doi: 10.1111/1759-7714.12354. Epub 2016
May  5.

Predictors of survival in patients who underwent video-assisted thoracic surgery 
talc pleurodesis for malignant pleural effusion.

Yoon DW(1), Cho JH(1), Choi YS(1), Kim J(1), Kim HK(1), Zo JI(1), Shim YM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Samsung Medical Center Sungkyunkwan 
University School of Medicine Seoul South Korea.

BACKGROUND: Patients with malignant pleural effusion have a limited life 
expectancy. An increase in pleural and oncological treatment options and more 
accurate prognostic evaluation may help individualize treatment strategies. The 
aim of this study was to identify the prognostic indicators of overall survival 
(OS) after video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) talc pleurodesis for malignant 
pleural effusion.
METHODS: We examined the medical records of all consecutive patients with 
malignant pleural effusion who underwent VATS talc pleurodesis from 2006 to 2008 
at the Samsung Medical Center. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to 
identify predictors of OS after VATS talc pleurodesis.
RESULTS: During the study period, 91 patients underwent VATS talc pleurodesis to 
treat malignant pleural effusion. Early (within 30 days) and late (within 90 
days) postoperative mortality rates were 9.9% (9 patients), and 25.3% (23), 
respectively. Median survival time after VATS talc pleurodesis was 10.5 months. 
The postoperative respiratory complication rate was 11% (10 patients), and 
included pneumonia (9) and acute respiratory distress syndrome (4). Multivariate 
analysis revealed that preoperative chemotherapy (P = 0.012), preoperative 
radiotherapy (P = 0.003), and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) 
performance score 3 or 4 (P = 0.013) were independent risk factors of OS after 
VATS talc pleurodesis.
CONCLUSIONS: We identified previous chemotherapy or radiotherapy and poor 
performance status (ECOG 3 or 4) as significant predictors of OS after VATS talc 
pleurodesis. These prognostic factors can help surgeons select candidates for 
VATS pleurodesis for malignant pleural effusion.

DOI: 10.1111/1759-7714.12354
PMCID: PMC4930957
PMID: 27385980


806. An R Acad Nac Med (Madr). 2014;131(1):77-94; discussion 94-7.

[THE GLOBAL AND ECONOMIC CRISIS. AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT].

[Article in Spanish]

del Rey Calero J.

The Global and economic crisis and Health Management The Health care process 
discussed are 4 steps: assessment, planing, intervention and evaluation. The 
identify association between social factors linked to social vulnerability 
(socio economic status, unemployed, poverty) and objective health relate quality 
of life. The poverty rate is 24.2%, unemployed 26.26%, youth unemployed 
56.13%.ratio worker/retired 2.29. Debts 100% GDP The health inequality influence 
on health related quality of life. The Health System efficiency index. according 
Bloomber rate (2,013) Spain is 5 degrees in the world, points 68.3 on 100, for 
the life expectancy 82.3 years, the personal cost of health care 2,271€. Health 
care 10% GDP (public 7%,private 3%), SS protected population 92.4%, retired 
person cost 9.2% GDP, p. capita GDP 23,737€. Cost of Care: Hospital/specialist 
54%, P. Care 15%, Pharmaceutical 19.8%, P. Health 3.1%.

PMID: 27386674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Curr Treat Options Gastroenterol. 2016 Sep;14(3):285-304. doi: 
10.1007/s11938-016-0099-6.

Management of Inflammatory Bowel Disease in the Elderly.

John ES(1)(2), Katz K(3), Saxena M(3), Chokhavatia S(3), Katz S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson, New Brunswick, 
NJ, USA. elizabethjohn17@gmail.com.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology, Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson, New Brunswick, NJ, 
USA. elizabethjohn17@gmail.com.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology, Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson, New Brunswick, NJ, 
USA.
(4)New York University School of Medicine, 1000 Northern Blvd, Great Neck, NY, 
11020, USA.

A substantial and growing proportion of patients with inflammatory bowel disease 
(IBD) are elderly, and these patients require tailored treatment strategies. 
However, significant challenges exist in the management of this population due 
to the paucity of data. Establishing the initial diagnosis and assessing the 
etiology of future symptoms and flares can be challenging as several other 
prevalent diseases can masquerade as IBD, such as ischemic colitis, diverticular 
disease, and infectious colitis. Important pharmacologic considerations include 
reduced glomerular filtration rate and drug-drug interactions in the elderly. No 
drug therapy is absolutely contraindicated in this population; however, special 
risk and benefit assessments should be made. Older patients are more susceptible 
to side effects of steroids such as delirium, fractures, and cataracts. 
Budesonide can be an appropriate alternative for mild to moderate ulcerative 
colitis (UC) or Crohn's disease (CD) as it has limited systemic absorption. Pill 
size and quantity, nephrotoxicity, and difficulty of administration of rectal 
preparations should be considered with 5-aminosalicylic (5-ASA) therapy. 
Biologics are very effective, but modestly increase the risk of infection in a 
susceptible group. Based on their mechanisms, integrin receptor antagonists 
(e.g., vedolizumab) may reduce these risks. Use of antibiotics for anorectal or 
fistulizing CD or pouchitis in UC increases the risk of Clostridium difficile 
infection. Pre-existing comorbidities, functional status, and nutrition are 
important indicators of surgical outcomes. Morbidity and mortality are increased 
among IBD patients undergoing surgery, often due to postoperative complications 
or sepsis. Elderly adults with IBD, particularly UC, have very high rates of 
venous thromboembolism (VTE). Colonoscopy appears safe, but the optimal 
surveillance interval has not been well defined. Should the octogenarian, 
nonagenarian, and centurion undergo colonoscopy? The length of surveillance 
should likely account for the individual's overall life expectancy. Specific 
health maintenance should emphasize administering non-live vaccines to patients 
on thiopurines or biologics and regular skin exams for those on thiopurines. 
Smoking cessation is crucial to overall health and response to medical therapy, 
even among UC patients. This article will review management of IBD in the 
elderly.

DOI: 10.1007/s11938-016-0099-6
PMID: 27387455


808. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2016 Jul 7;10(7):e0004831. doi: 
10.1371/journal.pntd.0004831. eCollection 2016 Jul.

The Burden of Zoonoses in Kyrgyzstan: A Systematic Review.

Counotte MJ(1)(2), Minbaeva G(3), Usubalieva J(3), Abdykerimov K(4), Torgerson 
PR(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Epidemiology, Vetsuisse Faculty, University of Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(2)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(3)State Sanitary Epidemiological Department of the Kyrgyz Republic, Bishkek, 
Kyrgyzstan.
(4)Laboratory "Express Plus", Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan.

INTRODUCTION: Zoonotic disease (ZD) pose a serious threat to human health in 
low-income countries. In these countries the human burden of disease is often 
underestimated due to insufficient monitoring because of insufficient funding. 
Quantification of the impact of zoonoses helps in prioritizing healthcare needs. 
Kyrgyzstan is a poor, mountainous country with 48% of the population employed in 
agriculture and one third of the population living below the poverty line.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We have assessed the burden of zoonoses in 
Kyrgyzstan by conducting a systematic review. We have used the collected data to 
estimate the burden of ZDs and addressed the underestimation in officially 
reported disease incidence. The estimated incidences of the ZDs were used to 
calculate incidence-based Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs). This 
standardized health gap measure enhances comparability between injuries and 
diseases. The combined burden for alveolar echinococcosis, cystic 
echinococcosis, brucellosis, campylobacteriosis, congenital toxoplasmosis, 
non-typhoidal salmonellosis and rabies in Kyrgyzstan in 2013 was 35,209 DALYs 
[95% Uncertainty interval (UI):13,413-83,777]; 576 deaths [95% UI: 279-1,168] 
were attributed to these infections. We estimate a combined median incidence of 
ZDs of 141,583 cases [95% UI: 33,912-250,924] in 2013. The highest burden was 
caused by non-typhoidal Salmonella and Echinococcus multilocularis, respectively 
14,792 DALYs [95% UI: 3,966-41,532] and 11,915 DALYs [95% UI: 4,705-27,114] per 
year.
CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: The health impact of zoonoses in Kyrgyzstan is 
substantial, comparable to that of HIV. Community-based surveillance studies and 
hospital-based registration of all occurrences of zoonoses would increase the 
accuracy of the estimates.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0004831
PMCID: PMC4936671
PMID: 27387925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


809. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Jul 1;57(8):3581-7. doi:
10.1167/iovs.16-19287.

Dystrophin Is Required for Proper Functioning of Luminance and Red-Green Cone 
Opponent Mechanisms in the Human Retina.

Barboni MT(1), Martins CM(1), Nagy BV(1), Tsai T(2), Damico FM(3), da Costa 
MF(1), de Cassia R, Pavanello M(4), Lourenço NC(4), de Cerqueira AM(4), Zatz 
M(4), Kremers J(2), Ventura DF(1).

Author information:
(1)Núcleo de Neurociências e Comportamento, Universidade de São Paulo, São 
Paulo, Brasil 2Departamento de Psicologia Experimental, Instituto de Psicologia, 
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brasil.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital Erlangen, Erlangen, Germany.
(3)Núcleo de Neurociências e Comportamento, Universidade de São Paulo, São 
Paulo, Brasil 2Departamento de Psicologia Experimental, Instituto de Psicologia, 
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brasil 4Departamento de Oftalmologia, 
Faculdade de Medicina, Uni.
(4)Centro de Pesquisas do Genoma Humano e Células-Tronco Universidade de São 
Paulo, São Paulo, Brasil.

PURPOSE: Visual information is processed in parallel pathways in the visual 
system. Parallel processing begins at the synapse between the photoreceptors and 
their postreceptoral neurons in the human retina. The integrity of this first 
neural connection is vital for normal visual processing downstream. Of the 
numerous elements necessary for proper functioning of this synaptic contact, 
dystrophin proteins in the eye play an important role. Deficiency of muscle 
dystrophin causes Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), an X-linked disease that 
affects muscle function and leads to decreased life expectancy. In DMD patients, 
postreceptoral retinal mechanisms underlying scotopic and photopic vision and 
ON- and OFF-pathway responses are also altered.
METHODS: In this study, we recorded the electroretinogram (ERG) while 
preferentially activating the (red-green) opponent or the luminance pathway, and 
compared data from healthy participants (n = 16) with those of DMD patients (n = 
10). The stimuli were heterochromatic sinusoidal modulations at a mean luminance 
of 200 cd/m2. The recordings allowed us also to analyze ON and OFF cone-driven 
retinal responses.
RESULTS: We found significant differences in 12-Hz response amplitudes and 
phases between controls and DMD patients, with conditions with large luminance 
content resulting in larger response amplitudes in DMD patients compared to 
controls, whereas responses of DMD patients were smaller when pure chromatic 
modulation was given.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that dystrophin is required for the proper 
function of luminance and red-green cone opponent mechanisms in the human 
retina.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-19287
PMID: 27388051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. BMC Cancer. 2016 Jul 7;16:405. doi: 10.1186/s12885-016-2431-x.

A cost effective analysis of fixed-dose combination of dutasteride and 
tamsulosin compared with dutasteride monotherapy for benign prostatic 
hyperplasia in Nigeria: a middle income perspective; using an interactive Markov 
model.

Udeh EI(1), Ofoha CG(2), Adewole DA(3), Nnabugwu II(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Faculty of medicine, College of Medicine, University 
of Nigeria Enugu campus, Enugu, Nigeria. emeka.udeh@unn.edu.ng.
(2)Division of Urology, Department of Surgery, Jos University Teaching Hospital, 
Jos, Nigeria.
(3)Department of Community Medicine, Bowen University/Bowen University Teaching 
Hospital, Iwo/Ogbomoso, Nigeria.
(4)Department of Surgery, University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital Ituku-Ozalla 
Enugu, Enugu, Nigeria.

BACKGROUND: The number of Nigerian men presenting with benign prostatic 
hyperplasia is on the rise because of increase awareness about the ailment. With 
the renewed effort by the national health insurance scheme to cover the informal 
sector, it becomes imperative to determine the cost implication for managing 
Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) and the cost effective drug combination to be 
adopted. The objective of this study is to estimate cost effective analysis 
(CEA) of fixed -dose combination of dutasteride and tamsulosin compared with 
dutasteride monotherapy from the health service provider perspective design.
METHODS: An interactive Markov's model was used to generate incremental cost per 
QALY and incremental cost per life years gained. 2.9 million Men who were 
50 years of age were fed into the model. The outcome measures included: costs of 
drug treatment, consultation, acute urinary retention (AUR), transurethral 
resection of prostate (TURP), hospitalisation post TURP, and quality adjusted 
life years (QALYs), incremental cost per life years gained, and incremental cost 
per QALY gained.
RESULTS: Fixed-dose combination of dutasteride and tamsulosin (FDCT) produced an 
Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of US$1481.92 per Quality adjusted for 
life-years saved.
CONCLUSION: Universal FDCT provision for Nigeria has major economic 
implications. This study in the context of its limitations has demonstrated the 
cost effectiveness of FDCT for the long term treatment of patients with moderate 
to severe BPH from the perspective of a developing country. Currently, there are 
few studies available to give economic data evidence to policy makers in Nigeria 
which is applicable to developing countries with similar economies. As such, the 
findings in this study will be relevant to policy makers in these countries.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-016-2431-x
PMCID: PMC4936011
PMID: 27388750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Infect Dis Poverty. 2016 May 24;5(1):54. doi: 10.1186/s40249-016-0147-4.

The health and economic benefits of the global programme to eliminate lymphatic 
filariasis (2000-2014).

Turner HC(1)(2), Bettis AA(3)(4), Chu BK(5), McFarland DA(6), Hooper PJ(5), 
Ottesen EA(5), Bradley MH(7).

Author information:
(1)London Centre for Neglected Tropical Disease Research, London, UK. 
hugo.turner@imperial.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, School of Public Health, 
Faculty of Medicine, St Marys Campus, Imperial College London, Norfolk Place, 
London, W2 1PG, UK. hugo.turner@imperial.ac.uk.
(3)London Centre for Neglected Tropical Disease Research, London, UK.
(4)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, School of Public Health, 
Faculty of Medicine, St Marys Campus, Imperial College London, Norfolk Place, 
London, W2 1PG, UK.
(5)Neglected Tropical Diseases Support Center, Task Force for Global Health, 
Decatur, GA, USA.
(6)Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(7)Global Health Programs, GlaxoSmithKline, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Lymphatic filariasis (LF), also known as elephantiasis, is a 
neglected tropical disease (NTD) targeted for elimination through a Global 
Programme to Eliminate LF (GPELF). Between 2000 and 2014, the GPELF has 
delivered 5.6 billion treatments to over 763 million people. Updating the 
estimated health and economic benefits of this significant achievement is 
important in justifying the resources and investment needed for eliminating LF.
METHOD: We combined previously established models to estimate the number of 
clinical manifestations and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) averted from 
three benefit cohorts (those protected from acquiring infection, those with 
subclinical morbidity prevented from progressing and those with clinical disease 
alleviated). The economic savings associated with this disease prevention was 
then analysed in the context of prevented medical expenses incurred by LF 
clinical patients, potential income loss through lost-labour, and prevented 
costs to the health system to care for affected individuals. The indirect cost 
estimates were calculated using the human capital approach. A combination of 
four wage sources was used to estimate the fair market value of time for an 
agricultural worker with LF infection (to ensure a conservative estimate, the 
lowest wage value was used).
RESULTS: We projected that due to the first 15 years of the GPELF 36 million 
clinical cases and 175 (116-250) million DALYs will potentially be averted. It 
was estimated that due to this notable health impact, US$100.5 billion will 
potentially be saved over the lifetimes of the benefit cohorts. This total 
amount results from summing the medical expenses incurred by LF patients (US$3 
billion), potential income loss (US$94 billion), and costs to the health system 
(US$3.5 billion) that were projected to be prevented. The results were subjected 
to sensitivity analysis and were most sensitive to the assumed percentage of 
work hours lost for those suffering from chronic disease (changing the total 
economic benefit between US$69.30-150.7 billion).
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the limitations of any such analysis, this study identifies 
substantial health and economic benefits that have resulted from the first 
15 years of the GPELF, and it highlights the value and importance of continued 
investment in the GPELF.

DOI: 10.1186/s40249-016-0147-4
PMCID: PMC4937583
PMID: 27388873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 2016 Oct;83(4):402-17. doi: 10.1177/0091415016657560.
Epub  2016 Jul 7.

Relationship Between the Remaining Years of Healthy Life Expectancy in Older Age 
and National Income Level, Educational Attainment, and Improved Water Quality.

Kim JI(1), Kim G(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Social Welfare and Public Health Administration, Wonkwang 
University, Republic of Korea Institute for Longevity Sciences, Wonkwang 
University, Republic of Korea kji122@wku.ac.kr.
(2)Global Management of Natural Resources, University College London (UCL), UK.

The remaining years of healthy life expectancy (RYH) at age 65 years can be 
calculated as RYH (65) = healthy life expectancy-aged 65 years. This study 
confirms the associations between socioeconomic indicators and the RYH (65) in 
148 countries. The RYH data were obtained from the World Health Organization. 
Significant positive correlations between RYH (65) in men and women and the 
socioeconomic indicators national income, education level, and improved drinking 
water were found. Finally, the predictors of RYH (65) in men and women were used 
to build a model of the RYH using higher socioeconomic indicators (R(2 )= 0.744, 
p < .001). Overall country-level educational attainment, national income level, 
and improved water quality influenced the RYH at 65 years. Therefore, 
policymaking to improve these country-level socioeconomic factors is expected to 
have latent effects on RYH in older age.

© The Author(s) 2016.

DOI: 10.1177/0091415016657560
PMID: 27388888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Int J Cardiol. 2016 Oct 1;220:235-41. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2016.06.138.
Epub  2016 Jun 25.

The role of neuropeptide Y in the pathophysiology of atherosclerotic 
cardiovascular disease.

Zhu P(1), Sun W(1), Zhang C(1), Song Z(2), Lin S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Southwest Hospital, Third Military Medical 
University, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Southwest Hospital, Third Military Medical 
University, China. Electronic address: zysong2010@126.com.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Southwest Hospital, Third Military Medical 
University, China; Illawarra Health and Medical Research Institute, Wollongong 
2522, Australia. Electronic address: shulin1956@126.com.

With average life expectancy rising greatly, the incidence rate of 
arteriosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) has significantly increased. The 
heart disease has now become the number one killer that threatens the global 
population health, the second is stroke. It will be of great significance to 
investigate the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms of ASCVD in order to 
promote effective prevention and treatment. The neuropeptide Y (NPY) has now 
been discovered for more than thirty years and is widely distributed in the 
central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral tissues. By combining with certain 
receptors, NPY performs a variety of physiological functions, including the 
regulation of food intake, cardiovascular effects, development, hormonal 
secretion, sexual behavior, biological rhythms, temperature and emotion. In 
ASCVD, increased peripheral NPY was involved in the pathophysiological process 
of atherosclerosis through affecting the vascular endothelial dysfunction, the 
formation of foam cells, the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells, the 
local inflammatory response of plaques and the activation and aggregation of 
platelets. Via central and/or the peripheral nervous system, increased NPY was 
associated with dyslipidemia, hypertension, obesity, diabetes, impaired glucose 
tolerance, and smoking which are all risk factors for ASCVD. In this review, we 
summarize the role of neuropeptide Y in the development of atherosclerotic 
cardiovascular disease.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2016.06.138
PMID: 27389447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Epilepsy Res. 2016 Sep;125:37-41. doi: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2016.05.006.
Epub  2016 May 25.

Determining the disability adjusted life years lost to childhood and adolescence 
epilepsy in southeast Nigeria: An exploratory study.

Ughasoro MD(1), Onwujekwe OE(2), Ojinnaka NC(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University of Nigeria, Enugu Campus, Enugu, 
Nigeria. Electronic address: maduka.ughasoro@unn.edu.ng.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, and Department of Health 
Administration and Management, University of Nigeria, Enugu Campus, Enugu, 
Nigeria.
(3)Department of Paediatrics, University of Nigeria, Enugu Campus, Enugu, 
Nigeria.

OBJECTIVES: Disease burden has always been based on associated mortality. An 
accurate measurement of the burden of epilepsy should rely on both morbidity and 
mortality. This will close any existing gap in knowledge and provide useful 
information to aid evidence-based decision-making. In this study, burden of 
epilepsy was estimated, using disability-adjusted-life-years (DALYs), using 
disability weights for epilepsy that were part of the Global Burden of Disease 
2010 work.
METHODS: The study was conducted at the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital, 
Enugu. Interviewer-administered questionnaire was used to collect information 
from patients with epilepsy who presented to neurology clinic. The prevalence of 
epilepsy, and case-fatality were obtained from previous publications. The DALYs 
were estimated by adding together the years lost to disability (YLDs) and years 
lost to life (YLLs) to epilepsy (DALYs=YLD+YLL). DALYs were dis-aggregated by 
age group and by whether or not epilepsy was treated.
RESULTS: A total of 134 children with epilepsy-interviews were conducted. Some 
56% and 44% of the subjects had primary and secondary epilepsy, respectively. 
The childhood epilepsy caused 1.63 YLLs per 1000 population, 0.45 YLDs per 1000 
population and 2.08 DALY per 1000 population. The highest burden was in children 
within the age group of 5-14 years at 2.18 DALY per 1000 people. The YLDs was 
higher (0.63/1000 population) among the untreated group, compared with the YLDs 
(0.27/1000 population) among the treated group. The YLLs lost for children with 
secondary epilepsy (2.23/1000 population) was higher than primary epilepsy YLLs 
of 1.07/1000 population.
SIGNIFICANCE: The DALYs due to childhood epilepsy was high. The YLDs was high 
among children with epilepsy who were not on treatment. The YLLs were found to 
be the same in all children with epilepsy, irrespective of their treatment 
status. This imperatively necessitates the de-emphasis on just mortality as an 
indicator of the burden of childhood epilepsy but rather a holistic approach 
should be adopted in considering both the mortality and disability in monitoring 
the outcome of health interventions.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2016.05.006
PMID: 27389705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. RNA. 2016 Sep;22(9):1386-99. doi: 10.1261/rna.055798.115. Epub 2016 Jul 7.

The N-terminal extension of yeast ribosomal protein L8 is involved in two major 
remodeling events during late nuclear stages of 60S ribosomal subunit assembly.

Tutuncuoglu B(1), Jakovljevic J(1), Wu S(2), Gao N(2), Woolford JL Jr(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania 15213, USA.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 100084, China.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania 15213, USA jw17@andrew.cmu.edu.

Assaying effects on pre-rRNA processing and ribosome assembly upon depleting 
individual ribosomal proteins (r-proteins) provided an initial paradigm for 
assembly of eukaryotic ribosomes in vivo-that each structural domain of 
ribosomal subunits assembles in a hierarchical fashion. However, two features 
suggest that a more complex pathway may exist: (i) Some r-proteins contain 
extensions that reach long distances across ribosomes to interact with multiple 
rRNA domains as well as with other r-proteins. (ii) Individual r-proteins may 
assemble in a stepwise fashion. For example, the globular domain of an r-protein 
might assemble separately from its extensions. Thus, these extensions might play 
roles in assembly that could not be revealed by depleting the entire protein. 
Here, we show that deleting or mutating extensions of r-proteins L7 (uL30) and 
L35 (uL29) from yeast reveal important roles in early and middle steps during 
60S ribosomal subunit biogenesis. Detailed analysis of the N-terminal terminal 
extension of L8 (eL8) showed that it is necessary for late nuclear stages of 60S 
subunit assembly involving two major remodeling events: removal of the ITS2 
spacer; and reorganization of the central protuberance (CP) containing 5S rRNA 
and r-proteins L5 (uL18) and L11 (uL5). Mutations in the L8 extension block 
processing of 7S pre-rRNA, prevent release of assembly factors Rpf2 and Rrs1 
from pre-ribosomes, which is required for rotation of the CP, and block 
association of Sda1, the Rix1 complex, and the Rea1 ATPase involved in late 
steps of remodeling.

© 2016 Tutuncuoglu et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press for 
the RNA Society.

DOI: 10.1261/rna.055798.115
PMCID: PMC4986894
PMID: 27390266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Natl J Maxillofac Surg. 2015 Jul-Dec;6(2):252-5. doi:
10.4103/0975-5950.183864.

Immediate dental implant placement with immediate loading following extraction 
of natural teeth.

Singh M(1), Kumar L(1), Anwar M(1), Chand P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, Crown and Bridges, Faculty of Dental Sciences, 
King George's Medical University, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.

The loss of tooth in the esthetic area is often a traumatic experience for the 
patient. Patients may suffer real or perceived detrimental effects following the 
loss of one or more teeth. Dental implant offers the most cost-effective and 
long-term solution for replacement of missing teeth with high average life 
expectancy, providing the patient with the best sense of security and 
well-being. Recently, immediate implant placement after extraction of tooth with 
early loading has become more common. The advantages of this procedure include 
fewer surgical interventions, reduction in overall treatment time, reduced soft 
and hard tissue loss, and psychological satisfaction to the patient. This case 
report describes the procedure for immediate implant placement with immediate 
loading of implants by provisional restorations.

DOI: 10.4103/0975-5950.183864
PMCID: PMC4922245
PMID: 27390509


817. Curr Urol. 2016 May;9(2):93-103. doi: 10.1159/000442860. Epub 2016 May 20.

Intraoperative Frozen Section of the Prostate Reduces the Risk of Positive 
Margin Whilst Ensuring Nerve Sparing in Patients with Intermediate and High-Risk 
Prostate Cancer Undergoing Robotic Radical Prostatectomy: First Reported UK 
Series.

Vasdev N(1), Agarwal S(2), Rai BP(3), Soosainathan A(3), Shaw G(3), Chang S(4), 
Prasad V(5), Mohan-S G(5), Adshead JM(3).

Author information:
(1)Hertfordshire and South Bedfordshire Robotic Urological Cancer Centre, 
Department of Urology, Lister Hospital, Stevenage, UK; School of Life and 
Medical Sciences, University of Hertfordshire, Hatfield, UK.
(2)Department of Histopathology, Lister Hospital, Stevenage, UK.
(3)Hertfordshire and South Bedfordshire Robotic Urological Cancer Centre, 
Department of Urology, Lister Hospital, Stevenage, UK.
(4)Department of Radiology, Lister Hospital, Stevenage, UK.
(5)Department of Anaesthetics, Lister Hospital, Stevenage, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Nerve sparing during robotic radical prostatectomy (RRP) 
considerably improves post-operative potency and urinary continence as long as 
it does not compromise oncological outcome. Excision of the neurovascular bundle 
(NVB) is often performed in patients with intermediate and high risk prostate 
cancer to reduce the risk of positive surgical margin raising the risk of 
urinary incontinence and impotence. We present the first UK series outcomes of 
such patients who underwent an intra-operative frozen section (IOFS) analysis of 
the prostate during RRP allowing nerve sparing.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We prospectively analysed the data of 40 patients who 
underwent an IOFS during RRP at our centre from November 2012 until November 
2014. Our IOFS technique involved whole lateral circumferential analysis of the 
prostate during RRP with the corresponding neurovascular tissue. An intrafascial 
nerve spare was performed and the specimen was removed intra-operatively via an 
extension of the 12 mm Autosuture™ camera port without undocking robotic arms. 
It was then painted by the surgeon and sprayed with "Ink Aid" prior to frozen 
section analysis. The corresponding NVB was excised if the histopathologist 
found a positive surgical margin on frozen section.
RESULTS: Median time to extract the specimen, wound closure and re-establishment 
of pneumoperitoneum increased the operative time by 8 min. Median blood loss for 
IOFS was 130 ± 97 ml vs. 90 ± 72 ml (p = NS). IOFS was not associated with major 
complications or with blood transfusion. PSM decreased significantly from 
