among males and those aged ≥50 years, and variation among provinces.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-9624.2016.09.004
PMID: 27655594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Sep 6;50(9):769-775. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-9624.2016.09.005.

[Burden of disease attributable to high fasting plasma glucose in 1990 and 2013 
in China].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhao YF(1), Wang ZQ, Yang J, Li YC, Yin P, You JL, Zhou MG.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China.

Objective: To analyze the burden of disease attributed to high fasting plasma 
glucose(FPG)in China in 1990 and 2013. Methods: The analysis used data obtained 
from the 2013 Global Burden of Diseases Study and examined deaths, death rate, 
disability-adjusted life years(DALY), years lived with disability(YLD)and years 
of life lost(YLL)attributed to high FPG in 1990 and 2013 in China(not including 
Taiwan, China). An average world population age-structure for the period 2000- 
2025 was adopted to calculate age-standardized rates. Results: In 2013, the 
number of deaths attributed to high FPG in China increased to 621.9 thousand 
from 320.3 thousand in 1990. From 1990- 2013, the age-standardized death rate 
attributable to high FPG increased from 45.69/100 000 to 48.64/100 000. DALYs 
caused by high FPG increased to 20.389 1 million in 2013 from 10.648 3 million 
in 1990. In 2013, high FPG caused 8.751 5 million YLD and 11.637 6 million YLL, 
and the percentage of YLL in DALY decreased to 57.1% in 2013 from 68.7% in 1990. 
Compared with 1990, the age-standardized DALY rate attributed to high FPG 
increased by 10.81%. In 2013, the top three provinces with the highest burden of 
disease attributed to high FPG were Xinjiang, Jilin and Liaoning provinces, with 
standardized death rates of 83.38, 74.01 and 68.64/100 000, respectively, and 
the standardized DALY rate was 2 217.96, 2 001.84 and 1 837.79/100 000 in the 
three provinces, respectively. Conclusion: Compared with 1990, the burden of 
disease attributed to high FPG in 2013 increased substantially in China, in 
particular the burden of attributed YLD. However, the burden of YLL attributed 
to high FPG has decreased modestly. The burden of disease caused by high FPG 
shows variation among different provinces in China.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-9624.2016.09.005
PMID: 27655595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Sep 6;50(9):782-787. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-9624.2016.09.007.

[The burden of disease attributed to low bone mineral density among population 
aged ≥40 years old in China, 1990 and 2013].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhao ZP(1), Ai HH, Li YC, Wang LM, Yin P, Zhang M, Deng Q, Huang ZJ, Liu JM, Liu 
YN, Gao YJ, Zhou MG.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Prevention and 
Control, Chinese Center for Disease Prevention and Control, Beijing 100050, 
China.

Objective: To identify cause-specific death and attributed burden of low bone 
mineral density in China among population aged ≥40 years old , 1990 and 2013. 
Methods: By using data from Global Burden of Disease(GBD)2013, this study 
analyzed death caused by low mineral density, and disability-adjusted life 
years(DALY)among population aged 40 and above in China(not including Taiwan, 
China). This study also analyzed DALY by composition of injury which due to low 
bone mineral density. It also analyzed changes in DALY by provinces in China, 
1990 and 2013. An average world population age-structure for the period 2000- 
2025 was adopted to calculate the age standardized rates. Results: In 2013, 
there were 38.1 thousands male and 30.7 thousands female who aged 40 and above 
dead due to low bone mineral density in China. The burden of injury caused by 
low bone mineral density was more sever in male than female, which accounted for 
1.525 million DALY in male and 0.873 million DALY in female. In 1990, low bone 
mineral density attributed transportation and accidental injury caused 0.794 
million and 0.567 million DALY losses, respectively. In 2013, low bone mineral 
density attributed transportation and accidental injury caused 1.421 million and 
0.951 million DALY losses, respectively. Compared to 1990, DALY losses caused by 
transportation and accidental injury, increased by 79.1% and 67.6%, 
respectively. In 1990, DALY rate losses due to low bone mineral density 
attributed transportation and accidental injury were 68.1 per 100 000 and 48.7 
per 100 000, respectively. In 2013, DALY rate losses due to low bone mineral 
density attributed transportation and accidental injury were 102.0 per 100 000 
and 68.2 per 100 000, respectively. Compared to 1990, DALY rates which caused by 
transportation and accidental injury, increased by 49.8% and 40.2%, 
respectively. According to the ranking of standardized DALY rate in 2013 by 
provinces, the top 3 provinces, which standardized DALYs attributed to low bone 
mineral density lost the most, were Zhejiang Province(2.6 per 100 000), Jiangsu 
Province(2.4 per 100 000), and Fujian Province(2.2 per 100 000). Compared to 
1990, the standardized rate of DALY decreased in 27 provinces, while the DALY 
rate increased in only 6 provinces which included Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, 
Qinghai Province, Hebei Province, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, and Henan 
Province and Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. Conclusion: This study found that 
the burden of health losses attributed to it was higher in men than in women. 
Compared to 1990, DALY rates decreased in most of the provinces, however, the 
rates of losses of DALY which caused by transportation and accidental injury 
were still increasing.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-9624.2016.09.007
PMID: 27655597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Occup Environ Med. 2017 Mar;74(3):176-183. doi: 10.1136/oemed-2016-103804.
Epub  2016 Sep 21.

Physical occupational exposures and health expectancies in a French occupational 
cohort.

Platts LG(1), Head J(2), Stenholm S(3), Singh Chungkham H(1)(4), Goldberg 
M(5)(6), Zins M(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Stress Research Institute, Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London, 
London, UK.
(3)Department of Public Health, University of Turku and Turku University 
Hospital, Turku, Finland.
(4)Indian Statistical Institute, North-East Centre, Tezpur, India.
(5)Population-based Epidemiologic Cohorts Unit, UMS 011, Inserm, Villejuif, 
France.
(6)Paris Descartes University, Paris, France.
(7)UMR-S 1168 VIMA, Inserm, Villejuif, France.

OBJECTIVES: To examine the relationships of strenuous and hazardous working 
conditions and rotating shifts that involve night working with life expectancy 
in good perceived health and life expectancy without chronic disease.
METHODS: The sample contained male gas and electricity workers from the French 
GAZEL cohort (n=13 393). Six measures of physical working conditions were 
examined: Self-reports from 1989 and 1990 of ergonomic strain, physical danger, 
rotating shifts that involve night working and perceived physical strain; 
company records of workplace injuries and a job-exposure matrix of chemical 
exposures. Partial healthy life expectancies (age 50-75) relating to (1) 
self-rated health and (2) chronic health conditions, obtained from annual 
questionnaires (1989-2014) and company records, were estimated using multistate 
life tables. The analyses were adjusted for social class and occupational grade.
RESULTS: Participants with physically strenuous jobs and who had experienced 
industrial injuries had shorter partial life expectancy. More physically 
demanding and dangerous work was associated with fewer years of life spent in 
good self-rated health and without chronic conditions, with the exception of 
shift work including nights, where the gradient was reversed.
CONCLUSIONS: Strenuous and hazardous work may contribute to lost years of good 
health in later life, which has implications for individuals' quality of life as 
well as healthcare use and labour market participation.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/oemed-2016-103804
PMCID: PMC5520272
PMID: 27655775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


589. J Int Assoc Provid AIDS Care. 2016 Nov;15(6):459-462. doi: 
10.1177/2325957416668578. Epub 2016 Sep 21.

Diagnosis and Management of a Pancreaticopleural Fistula in a Patient with AIDS 
and a Large Pleural Effusion.

Blayney MJ(1), Nguyen A(2), Aboulafia DM(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Medical Education, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA, USA 
margaret.blayney@virginiamason.org.
(2)Graduate Medical Education, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA, USA.
(3)Section of Hematology Oncology, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA, 
USA.
(4)Division of Hematology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.

Pleural effusions typically present with nonspecific pulmonary complaints in the 
setting of either acute or chronic diseases. In the general population, these 
illnesses include congestive heart failure, infection, and malignancy. However, 
in people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), pleural effusions often result from 
opportunistic infections and AIDS-defining malignancies, such as Kaposi sarcoma 
and non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Since the introduction of highly active antiretroviral 
therapy, there has been a decline in the frequency of AIDS-defining 
opportunistic infections and AIDS-defining cancers and an increase in certain 
non-AIDS-defining malignancies including lung cancer. Throughout this period, 
longer life expectancy in PLWHA has contributed to an increased risk of those 
chronic diseases that can result in pleural effusions. This case describes an 
HIV-infected man who was an active cigarette smoker and alcoholic and who 
presented with a large pleural effusion of uncertain etiology. The authors 
review several important noncardiac risk factors associated with pleural 
effusions in PLWHA. The authors also emphasize the importance of obtaining a 
detailed medical history and the use of appropriate imaging and laboratory tests 
in order to identify an underlying cause and to provide optimal treatment.

© The Author(s) 2016.

DOI: 10.1177/2325957416668578
PMID: 27655836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 2017 Apr;84(4):366-377. doi: 10.1177/0091415016668350.
Epub  2016 Sep 22.

Perceived Risk of Death in Older Primary Care Patients.

Teixeira L(1)(2), Azevedo MJ(1)(2), Alves S(1)(2), Duarte M(1)(2), O'Caoimh 
R(3), Molloy W(4), Paúl C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)1 UNIFAI, Institute of Biomedical Sciences Abel Salazar (ICBAS), University 
of Porto, Portugal.
(2)2 Center for Health Technology and Services Research (CINTESIS), Institute of 
Biomedical Sciences Abel Salazar (ICBAS), University of Porto, Portugal.
(3)3 Health Research Board, Clinical Research Facility Galway, National 
University of Ireland, Galway, Ireland.
(4)4 Centre for Gerontology and Rehabilitation, St Finbarrs Hospital, University 
College Cork, Cork City, Ireland.

There is a large gap between life expectancy and healthy life years at age 65. 
To reduce this gap, it is necessary that people with medical concerns perceived 
at higher risk of adverse outcomes are readily identified and treated. The same 
goes for the need to implement prevention plans. The main objectives of this 
study are to, in a first step, (a) estimate the percentage of medical concerns, 
(b) identify factors associated with this concern; in a second step, (c) 
estimate the perceived risk of death, and (d) evaluate the ability of medical 
concerns to predict this risk. Results show that the existence and severity of 
medical concerns are crucial in the prediction of perceived risk of death. Early 
identification of severity of medical concerns and the availability and adequacy 
of informal caregiving should allow healthcare professionals to promptly 
initiate an appropriate assessment and treatment of older patients.

DOI: 10.1177/0091415016668350
PMID: 27655954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Front Pharmacol. 2016 Sep 5;7:275. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2016.00275.
eCollection  2016.

CFTR Modulators: Shedding Light on Precision Medicine for Cystic Fibrosis.

Lopes-Pacheco M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biophysics Carlos Chagas Filho, Federal University of Rio de 
Janeiro Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common life-threatening monogenic disease 
aﬄicting Caucasian people. It affects the respiratory, gastrointestinal, 
glandular and reproductive systems. The major cause of morbidity and mortality 
in CF is the respiratory disorder caused by a vicious cycle of obstruction of 
the airways, inflammation and infection that leads to epithelial damage, tissue 
remodeling and end-stage lung disease. Over the past decades, life expectancy of 
CF patients has increased due to early diagnosis and improved treatments; 
however, these patients still present limited quality of life. Many attempts 
have been made to rescue CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) 
expression, function and stability, thereby overcoming the molecular basis of 
CF. Gene and protein variances caused by CFTR mutants lead to different CF 
phenotypes, which then require different treatments to quell the patients' 
debilitating symptoms. In order to seek better approaches to treat CF patients 
and maximize therapeutic effects, CFTR mutants have been stratified into six 
groups (although several of these mutations present pleiotropic defects). The 
research with CFTR modulators (read-through agents, correctors, potentiators, 
stabilizers and amplifiers) has achieved remarkable progress, and these drugs 
are translating into pharmaceuticals and personalized treatments for CF 
patients. This review summarizes the main molecular and clinical features of CF, 
emphasizes the latest clinical trials using CFTR modulators, sheds light on the 
molecular mechanisms underlying these new and emerging treatments, and discusses 
the major breakthroughs and challenges to treating all CF patients.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2016.00275
PMCID: PMC5011145
PMID: 27656143


592. Hist Human Sci. 2012;25(1):32-51. doi: 10.1177/0952695111433160.

‘On what condition is the equation organism–society valid?’ Cell theory and 
organicist sociology in the works of Alfred Espinas (1870s–80s).

D’Hombres E(1), Mehdaoui S.

Author information:
(1)Université Catholique de Lyon and UMR SPHERE Rehseis 7219, France.

[[cellular theorydivision of 
labourindividualorganicismorganismsocietywhole–parts relations ]] In 1877, the 
young Alfred Espinas defended a philosophical study, ‘doctorat ès lettres’, at 
the Sorbonne University, entitled Des Sociétés animales. This was to become one 
of the principal sources of French organicist sociology. The paradox, however, 
is that this work seems to be fundamentally a study of natural science. Espinas 
tried to justify his position theoretically through two types of reciprocally 
exclusive and uncomplementary arguments. The first one consists in showing that 
only certain kinds of animal groupings belong legitimately, if not academically, 
to sociology. The second one has a greater audacious and uncontrollable 
dimension. It consists in asserting that all pluricellular organisms are true 
societies. In this article we first focus on the role played by cellular theory 
in such a ‘sociologization’ of biology, concerning the extension of sociology. 
Second, we examine the importance of such confusion within the fields of 
extension, in aiming to explain the conceptual transfers between social sciences 
and life sciences, in the second half of the 19th century.

DOI: 10.1177/0952695111433160
PMID: 27656723


593. Serious Psychological Distress and Mortality among Adults in the U.S.
Household  Population: Highlights.

Muhuri PK.

In: The CBHSQ Report. Rockville (MD): Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services 
Administration (US); 2013–.
2014 Aug 7.

Background: Mental illness is one of the major public health issues in the 
United States and has been associated with an increased risk of mortality. 
Organizations such as the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services 
Administration (SAMHSA) and the National Association of State Mental Health 
Program Directors (NASMHPD) have indicated that monitoring premature mortality 
attributable to mental illness is crucial for understanding factors that affect 
this population in order to identify strategies that can improve the lives of 
people with mental illness. Methods: This report is based on representative 
samples of U.S. adults who participated in the 1997 to 2004 National Health 
Interview Survey (NHIS) that were linked to a maximum of 10 years of mortality 
follow-up data from the National Death Index (NDI). Results: Among adults aged 
18 years or older, the death rate increased with increasing age overall, and the 
age-adjusted death rate was more than twice as high among those with serious 
psychological distress (SPD) than among those without SPD (1,763 vs. 840 per 
100,000 person-years). Adults with SPD were more likely than those without SPD 
to have died during the follow-up period in all three of the age groups 
examined. Among adults who died during the follow-up period, those who had SPD 
at baseline lost 3.8 more average years of potential life than those without SPD 
at baseline. Conclusion: Mental illness contributes to premature death in the 
U.S. household population. Results from this study show a robust association 
between SPD and death, even after adjusting for sociodemographic risk factors, 
smoking, obesity, and chronic health conditions. The reduced life expectancy of 
persons with SPD underscores the importance of efforts to lessen the burden 
associated with mental illness.

PMID: 27656742


594. JAMA. 2016 Nov 8;316(18):1869-1870. doi: 10.1001/jama.2016.14398.

Black Gains in Life Expectancy.

Fuchs VR(1).

Author information:
(1)Stanford University, Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research, 
National Bureau of Economic Research, Stanford, California.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2016.14398
PMID: 27656867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2016 Apr;39(4):179-85.

Gaps in health research in the Dominican Republic.

Canario JA, Lizardo J, Espinal R, Colomé M.

Objective To provide a basic profile of health research in the Dominican 
Republic by identifying health problems or diseases that have been addressed by 
studies implemented during the period 2009-2013 and to determine how well that 
research correlates with the burden of disease in the Dominican population. 
Methods This was a descriptive study that searched for primary and secondary 
data sources to identify health research implemented in the Dominican Republic 
in the years 2009 to 2013. Data about these projects were collected from the 
registries of clinicaltrials.gov and the Consejo Nacional de Bioética en Salud, 
as well as from a questionnaire directed to researchers and managers. 
Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) were derived from the Global Burden of 
Disease Study 2013 for males and females of all ages in the Dominican Republic 
and then compared with the number of research studies conducted on each specific 
health condition. Results This study identified 313 health research projects 
conducted in the Dominican Republic during the years 2009-2013. HIV/AIDS and 
lower respiratory infections were the two main topics researched; however, they 
accounted for a relatively small percentage of total DALYs in males and females 
of all ages in the Dominican Republic in 2013. Conclusions Limited research is 
directed toward addressing the health needs of Dominicans. The ongoing process 
of setting priorities for health research in the Dominican Republic should 
direct its efforts toward fixing this imbalance.

PMID: 27657182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Bioconjug Chem. 2016 Oct 19;27(10):2534-2539. doi: 
10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.6b00469. Epub 2016 Oct 7.

Approach for Half-Life Extension of Small Antibody Fragments That Does Not 
Affect Tissue Uptake.

Schneider EL(1), Hearn BR(1), Pfaff SJ(1), Fontaine SD(1), Reid R(1), Ashley 
GW(1), Grabulovski S(2), Strassberger V(2), Vogt L(2), Jung T(2), Santi DV(1).

Author information:
(1)ProLynx , 455 Mission Bay Blvd. South, Suite 145, San Francisco, California 
94158, United States.
(2)Delenex Therapeutics AG , Wagistrasse 27, CH-8952 Schlieren, Germany.

The utility of antigen-binding antibody fragments is often limited by their 
short half-lives. Half-life extension of such fragments is usually accomplished 
by attachment or binding to high-molecular-weight carriers that reduce the renal 
elimination rate. However, the higher hydrodynamic radius results in greater 
confinement in the vascular compartment and, thus, lower tissue distribution. We 
have developed a chemically controlled drug delivery system in which the drug is 
covalently attached to hydrogel microspheres by a self-cleaving β-eliminative 
linker; upon subcutaneous injection, the t1/2,β of the released drug acquires 
the t1/2 of linker cleavage. In the present work, we compared the 
pharmacokinetics of an anti-TNFα scFv, the same scFv attached to 40 kDa PEG by a 
stable linker, and the scFv attached to hydrogel microspheres by a self-cleaving 
linker. We also developed a general approach for the selective attachment of 
β-eliminative linkers to the N-termini of proteins. In rats, the scFv had a 
t1/2,β of 4 h and a high volume of distribution at steady state (Vd,SS), 
suggesting extensive tissue distribution. The PEG-scFv conjugate had an 
increased t1/2,β of about 2 days but showed a reduced Vd,SS that was similar to 
the plasma volume. In contrast, the tissue-penetrable scFv released from the 
hydrogel system had a t1/2,β of about 2 weeks. Thus, the cleavable 
microsphere-scFv conjugate releases its protein cargo with a prolonged half-life 
comparable to that of most full-length mAbs and in a form that has the high 
tissue distribution characteristic of smaller mAb fragments. Other 
antigen-binding antibody fragments should be amenable to the half-life extension 
approach described here.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.6b00469
PMID: 27657443


597. Leuk Res. 2016 Nov;50:37-45. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2016.09.005. Epub 2016
Sep  3.

Cost-effectiveness of obinutuzumab for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia in The 
Netherlands.

Blommestein HM(1), de Groot S(2), Aarts MJ(3), Vemer P(4), de Vries R(5), van 
Abeelen AF(5), Posthuma EF(6), Uyl-de Groot CA(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Institute of Health Policy and 
Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands; Netherlands 
Comprehensive Cancer Organisation, Netherlands Cancer Registry Utrecht, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: blommestein@bmg.eur.nl.
(2)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Institute of Health Policy and 
Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Netherlands Comprehensive Cancer Organisation, Netherlands Cancer Registry 
Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(4)University of Groningen, Pharmacotherapy, -Epidemiology, -Economics (PTE2), 
Groningen, The Netherlands; University of Groningen, University Medical Center 
Groningen, Department of Epidemiology, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(5)Roche Nederland B.V., Health Economics and Business Development, Woerden, The 
Netherlands.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine, Reinier de Graaf Group, Delft, The 
Netherlands.
(7)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Institute of Health Policy and 
Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands; Netherlands 
Comprehensive Cancer Organisation, Netherlands Cancer Registry Utrecht, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Obinutuzumab combined with chlorambucil (GClb) has shown to be 
superior to rituximab combined with chlorambucil (RClb) and chlorambucil (Clb) 
in newly diagnosed patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). This study 
evaluates the cost-effectiveness per life-year and quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) of GClb compared to RClb, Clb, and ofatumumab plus chlorambucil (OClb) in 
The Netherlands.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to assess the cost-effectiveness of GClb, 
RClb, Clb and other treatments in the United Kingdom. A country adaptation was 
made to estimate the cost-effectiveness of these therapies in The Netherlands 
using Dutch unit costs and Dutch data sources for background mortality and 
post-progression survival.
RESULTS: An incremental gain of 1.06 and 0.64 QALYs was estimated for GClb 
compared to Clb and RClb respectively, at additional costs of €23,208 and €7254 
per patient. Corresponding incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were 
€21,823 and €11,344 per QALY. Indirect treatment comparisons showed an 
incremental gain varying from 0.44 to 0.77 QALYs for GClb compared to OClb and 
additional costs varying from €7041 to €5028 per patient. The ICER varied from 
€6556 to €16,180 per QALY. Sensitivity analyses showed the robustness of the 
results.
CONCLUSION: GClb appeared to be a cost-effective treatment strategy compared to 
RClb, OClb and Clb.

Copyright © 2016 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2016.09.005
PMID: 27657652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nat Chem. 2016 Oct;8(10):915-21. doi: 10.1038/nchem.2551. Epub 2016 Jun 27.

Oligoarginine peptides slow strand annealing and assist non-enzymatic RNA 
replication.

Jia TZ(1)(2), Fahrenbach AC(1)(3), Kamat NP(1), Adamala KP(1), Szostak 
JW(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Center for Computational and Integrative 
Biology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Massachusetts General Hospital, 185 
Cambridge Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, 12 Oxford 
Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(3)Earth-Life Science Institute, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 2-12-1-IE-1 
Ookayama, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 152-8550, Japan.
(4)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, 77 Avenue Louis Pasteur, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Retraction in
    Nat Chem. 2017 Nov 23;9(12 ):1286.

The non-enzymatic replication of RNA is thought to have been a critical process 
required for the origin of life. One unsolved difficulty with non-enzymatic RNA 
replication is that template-directed copying of RNA results in a 
double-stranded product. After strand separation, rapid strand reannealing 
outcompetes slow non-enzymatic template copying, which renders multiple rounds 
of RNA replication impossible. Here we show that oligoarginine peptides slow the 
annealing of complementary oligoribonucleotides by up to several thousand-fold; 
however, short primers and activated monomers can still bind to template 
strands, and template-directed primer extension can still occur, all within a 
phase-separated condensed state, or coacervate. Furthermore, we show that within 
this phase, partial template copying occurs even in the presence of full-length 
complementary strands. This method to enable further rounds of replication 
suggests one mechanism by which short non-coded peptides could have enhanced 
early cellular fitness, and potentially explains how longer coded peptides, that 
is, proteins, came to prominence in modern biology.

DOI: 10.1038/nchem.2551
PMCID: PMC5061144
PMID: 27657866

Conflict of interest statement: No competing financial interests are declared.


599. Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2017 Mar;120(3):250-255. doi:
10.1111/bcpt.12680.  Epub 2016 Oct 26.

A Novel Model of P-Glycoprotein Inhibitor Screening Using Human Small Intestinal 
Organoids.

Zhao J(1), Zeng Z(1), Sun J(1)(2), Zhang Y(1), Li D(1), Zhang X(1)(2), Liu 
M(1)(3), Wang X(1).

Author information:
(1)East China Normal University and Shanghai Fengxian District Central Hospital 
Joint Research Center for Translational Medicine, Shanghai Key laboratory of 
Regulatory Biology, Institute of Biomedical Sciences and School of Life 
Sciences, East China Normal University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Shanghai Fengxian District Central Hospital, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Molecular and Cellular Medicine, Institute of Biosciences and 
Technology, Texas A&M University Health Science Center, Houston, TX, USA.

P-glycoprotein (P-gp), an important efflux transporter in intestine, regulates 
the bioavailability of orally taken drugs. To develop an in vitro model that 
preferably mimics the physiological microenvironment of human intestine, we 
employed the three-dimensionally (3D) cultured organoids from human normal small 
intestinal epithelium. It was observed that the intestinal crypts could 
efficiently form cystic organoid structure with the extension of culture time. 
Furthermore, the physiological expression of ABCB1 was detected at both mRNA and 
protein levels in cultured organoids. Rhodamine 123 (Rh123), a typical substrate 
of P-gp, was actively transported across 3D organoids and accumulated in the 
luminal space. This transport process was also inhibited by verapamil and 
mitotane. In summary, the above-mentioned model based on human small intestinal 
3D organoids is suitable to imitate the small intestinal epithelium and could be 
used as a novel in vitro model especially for P-gp inhibitor screening.

© 2016 Nordic Association for the Publication of BCPT (former Nordic 
Pharmacological Society).

DOI: 10.1111/bcpt.12680
PMID: 27657920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Prev Med. 2016 Oct;91:383-388. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2016.08.023. Epub 2016
Sep  9.

Recreational physical activity in natural environments and implications for 
health: A population based cross-sectional study in England.

White MP(1), Elliott LR(2), Taylor T(3), Wheeler BW(4), Spencer A(5), Bone A(6), 
Depledge MH(7), Fleming LE(8).

Author information:
(1)European Centre for Environment & Human Health, University of Exeter Medical 
School, Knowledge, Spa, Royal Cornwall Hospital Treliske, Cornwall, TR1 3HD, 
United Kingdom. Electronic address: mathew.white@exeter.ac.uk.
(2)European Centre for Environment & Human Health, University of Exeter Medical 
School, Knowledge, Spa, Royal Cornwall Hospital Treliske, Cornwall, TR1 3HD, 
United Kingdom. Electronic address: l.r.elliott@exeter.ac.uk.
(3)European Centre for Environment & Human Health, University of Exeter Medical 
School, Knowledge, Spa, Royal Cornwall Hospital Treliske, Cornwall, TR1 3HD, 
United Kingdom. Electronic address: t.j.taylor@exeter.ac.uk.
(4)European Centre for Environment & Human Health, University of Exeter Medical 
School, Knowledge, Spa, Royal Cornwall Hospital Treliske, Cornwall, TR1 3HD, 
United Kingdom. Electronic address: b.w.wheeler@exeter.ac.uk.
(5)Health Economics Group, University of Exeter Medical School, South Cloisters, 
St Luke's Campus, Exeter EX1 2LU, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
a.e.spencer@exeter.ac.uk.
(6)Public Health England, Environmental Change Department, 133-135 Waterloo 
Road, London SE1 8UG, United Kingdom. Electronic address: angie.bone@phe.gov.uk.
(7)European Centre for Environment & Human Health, University of Exeter Medical 
School, Knowledge, Spa, Royal Cornwall Hospital Treliske, Cornwall, TR1 3HD, 
United Kingdom. Electronic address: m.depledge@exeter.ac.uk.
(8)European Centre for Environment & Human Health, University of Exeter Medical 
School, Knowledge, Spa, Royal Cornwall Hospital Treliske, Cornwall, TR1 3HD, 
United Kingdom. Electronic address: l.e.fleming@exeter.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Building on evidence that natural environments (e.g. parks, 
woodlands, beaches) are key locations for physical activity, we estimated the 
total annual amount of adult recreational physical activity in England's natural 
environments, and assessed implications for population health.
METHODS: A cross-sectional analysis of six waves (2009/10-2014/5) of the 
nationally representative, Monitor of Engagement with the Natural Environment 
survey (n=280,790). The survey uses a weekly quota sample, and population 
weights, to estimate nature visit frequency across England, and provides details 
on a single, randomly selected visit (n=112,422), including: a) duration; b) 
activity; and c) environment type.
RESULTS: Approximately 8.23 million (95% CIs: 7.93, 8.54) adults (19.5% of the 
population) made at least one 'active visit' (i.e. ≥30min, ≥3 METs) to natural 
environments in the previous week, resulting in 1.23 billion (1.14, 1.32) 
'active visits' annually. An estimated 3.20 million (3.05, 3.35) of these also 
reported meeting recommended physical activity guidelines (i.e. ≥5×30min a week) 
fully, or in part, through such visits. Active visits by this group were 
associated with an estimated 109,164 (101,736, 116,592) Quality Adjusted Life 
Years (QALYs) annually. Assuming the social value of a QALY to be £20,000, the 
annual value of these visits was approximately £2.18 billion (£2.03, £2.33). 
Results for walking were replicated using WHO's Health Economic Assessment Tool.
CONCLUSIONS: Natural environments provide the context for a large proportion of 
England's recreational physical activity and highlight the need to protect and 
manage such environments for health purposes.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2016.08.023
PMID: 27658650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2016 Sep 22;17(1):402. doi:
10.1186/s12891-016-1239-9.

Surgical outcomes after instrumented lumbar surgery in patients of eighty years 
of age and older.

Liao JC(1), Chiu PY(2), Chen WJ(2), Chen LH(2), Niu CC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Bone and 
Joint Research Center, Chang Gung University, No._5, Fu-Shin Street, Kweishian, 
Taoyuan, 333, Taiwan. jcl1265@adm.cgmh.org.tw.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Bone and 
Joint Research Center, Chang Gung University, No._5, Fu-Shin Street, Kweishian, 
Taoyuan, 333, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: In Taiwan, the life expectancy of an 80-year-old man is 88.4 years 
and the life expectancy of an 80-year-old woman is 89.8 years. Some of these 
people will develop symptomatic degenerative lumbar diseases that interfere with 
an active lifestyle. These older surgical candidates usually ask the surgeon 
whether it would be safe to undergo surgery. However, there is no literature 
assessing the outcomes of laminectomy, fusion and posterior fixation for 
degenerative lumbar diseases in patients older than 80 years. The purpose of 
this study was to report the surgical outcomes of patients 80 years of age and 
older who underwent spinal decompression and instrumented lumbar arthrodesis for 
degeneration lumbar diseases.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed patients with degenerative lumbar diseases 
and spinal stenosis who underwent surgery between January 2010 and December 
2012. Inclusion criteria were age greater than or equal to 80 years, 
decompression with instrumented lumbar arthrodesis, and at least 2 years of 
follow-up. Totally 89 patients were studies. Clinical outcomes were evaluated 
according to the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) and visual analogue scale (VAS) 
of leg and back pain. Plain radiographs (lateral, anteroposterior, and 
flexion-extension) were used to assess the status of fusion and implant-related 
complications. Every complication during admission and any implant-related or 
failed-back syndrome requiring a second surgery was documented. T test and 
Fisher's exact test were used for statistical analysis.
RESULTS: Five patients were lost to follow-up, and another 12 died during the 
follow-up period. One patient died due to cerebral stroke just 2 days after 
surgery, and the other 11 patients passed away 3 months to 4 years 
postoperatively. In all, 72 patients had an adequate follow-up: 44 were female 
and 28 were male. The average age at surgery was 82.5 ± 2.6 years (80 to 93); 63 
patients underwent their first lumbar surgery, and nine patients received a 
second surgery. Patients underwent arthrodesis surgeries were from a 
single-level to a 7-level. Four patients developed complications (5.6 %, 4/72). 
At the final follow-up, the average ODI score was lower than the preoperative 
score (30.0 vs. 61.8) (p < 0.001). The average VAS score also showed improvement 
(leg: p < 0.001; back: p < 0.001). Forty-three patients were classified as 
"satisfied", and 29 were "dissatisfied". Longer operation time (p = 0.014) and 
development of complications (p = 0.049) were related to poor clinical results. 
Radiographic follow-up showed that 53 patients had solid union, ten had a 
probable union, and nine had pseudarthrosis. More surgical segments led to a 
greater chance of pseudarthrosis (2.0 ± 0.9 vs 3.0 ± 1.8, p = 0.003).
CONCLUSION: Longer instrumented segments and development of complications 
contributed to worse clinical and radiographic outcomes. With proper patient 
selection, posterior decompression with instrumented fusion can be safe and 
effective for patients 80 years of age and older with degenerative lumbar 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1186/s12891-016-1239-9
PMCID: PMC5034678
PMID: 27658815


602. Lancet HIV. 2016 Nov;3(11):e529-e538. doi: 10.1016/S2352-3018(16)30053-4.
Epub  2016 Sep 19.

Cognitive behavioural therapy for adherence and depression in patients with HIV: 
a three-arm randomised controlled trial.

Safren SA(1), Bedoya CA(2), O'Cleirigh C(3), Biello KB(4), Pinkston MM(5), Stein 
MD(6), Traeger L(2), Kojic E(7), Robbins GK(8), Lerner JA(2), Herman DS(9), 
Mimiaga MJ(10), Mayer KH(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Miami, Miami, FL, USA; Behavioral 
Medicine, Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA; 
Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; The Fenway 
Institute at Fenway Health, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
ssafren@miami.edu.
(2)Behavioral Medicine, Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, 
USA; Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Behavioral Medicine, Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, 
USA; Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; The 
Fenway Institute at Fenway Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)The Fenway Institute at Fenway Health, Boston, MA, USA; Department of 
Behavioral & Social Health Sciences and Epidemiology, School of Public Health, 
Brown University, Providence, RI, USA; Department of Psychiatry & Human 
Behavior, Alpert Medical School, Brown University, Providence, RI, USA; 
Institute for Community Health Promotion, Brown University, Providence, RI, USA.
(5)Immunology and Infectious Diseases, Brown University, Providence, RI, USA; 
The Miriam Hospital, Providence, RI, USA.
(6)Department of Health Law, Policy & Management, Boston University School of 
Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(7)The Miriam Hospital, Providence, RI, USA.
(8)Division of Infectious Diseases, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, 
USA; Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(9)Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Butler Hospital, Providence, RI, 
USA.
(10)The Fenway Institute at Fenway Health, Boston, MA, USA; Department of 
Behavioral & Social Health Sciences and Epidemiology, School of Public Health, 
Brown University, Providence, RI, USA; Department of Psychiatry & Human 
Behavior, Alpert Medical School, Brown University, Providence, RI, USA; 
Institute for Community Health Promotion, Brown University, Providence, RI, USA; 
Department of Epidemiology, T H Chan Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
MA, USA.
(11)Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; The Fenway 
Institute at Fenway Health, Boston, MA, USA; Department of Medicine, Beth Israel 
Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet HIV. 2016 Nov;3(11):e503-e504.

BACKGROUND: Depression is highly prevalent in people with HIV and has 
consistently been associated with poor antiretroviral therapy (ART) adherence. 
Integrating cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) for depression with adherence 
counselling using the Life-Steps approach (CBT-AD) has an emerging evidence 
base. The aim of this study was to test the efficacy of CBT-AD.
METHODS: In this three-arm randomised controlled trial in HIV-positive adults 
with depression, we compared CBT-AD with information and supportive 
psychotherapy plus adherence counselling using the Life-Steps approach (ISP-AD), 
and with enhanced treatment as usual (ETAU) including Life-Steps adherence 
counselling only. Participants were recruited from three sites in New England, 
USA (two hospital settings and one community health centre). Patients were 
randomly assigned (2:2:1) to receive CBT-AD (one Life-Steps session plus 11 
weekly integrated sessions lasting up to 1 h each), ISP-AD (one Life-Steps 
session plus 11 weekly integrated sessions lasting up to 1 h each), or ETAU (one 
Life-Steps session and five assessment visits roughly every 2 weeks), 
randomisation was done with allocation software, in pairs, and stratified by 
three variables: study site, whether or not participants had been prescribed 
antidepressant medication, and whether or not participants had a history of 
injection drug use. The primary outcome was ART adherence at the end of 
treatment (4 month assessment) assessed via electronic pill caps (Medication 
Event Monitoring System [MEMS]) with correction for pocketed doses, analysed by 
intention to treat.
FINDINGS: Patients were recruited from Feb 26, 2009, to June 21, 2012. Patients 
who were assigned to CBT-AD (94 randomly assigned, 83 completed assessment) had 
greater improvements in adherence (estimated difference 1·00 percentage point 
per visit, 95% CI 0·34 to 1·66, p=0·003) and depression (Center for 
Epidemiological Studies depression [CESD] score estimated difference -0·41, 
-0·66 to -0·16, p=0·001; Montgomery-Asberg depression rating scale [MADRS] score 
-4·69, -8·09 to -1·28, p=0·007; clinical global impression [CGI] score -0·66, 
-1·11 to -0·21, p=0·005) than did patients who had ETAU (49 assigned, 46 
completed assessment) after treatment (4 months). No significant differences in 
adherence were noted between CBT-AD and ISP-AD (97 assigned, 87 completed 
assessment). No study-related adverse events were reported.
INTERPRETATION: Integrating evidenced-based treatment for depression with 
evidenced-based adherence counselling is helpful for individuals living with 
HIV/AIDS and depression. Future efforts should examine how to best disseminate 
effective psychosocial depression treatments such as CBT-AD to people living 
with HIV/AIDS and examine the cost-effectiveness of such approaches.
FUNDING: National Institute of Mental Health, National Institute of Allergy and 
Infectious Diseases.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2352-3018(16)30053-4
PMCID: PMC5321546
PMID: 27658881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Childs Nerv Syst. 2016 Oct;32(10):1915-22. doi: 10.1007/s00381-016-3177-0.
Epub  2016 Sep 20.

Neurosurgical tools to extend tumor resection in pediatric hemispheric low-grade 
gliomas: iMRI.

Giordano M(1), Arraez C(2), Samii A(2), Samii M(2), Di Rocco C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, International Neuroscience Institute, Rudolf 
Pichlmayr Str. 4, 30625, Hannover, Germany. giordano.nch@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, International Neuroscience Institute, Rudolf 
Pichlmayr Str. 4, 30625, Hannover, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: The treatment of low-grade gliomas (LGGs) in pediatric age is 
still controversial. However, most authors report longer life expectancy in case 
of completely removed cerebral gliomas. Intraoperative magnetic resonance 
imaging (iMRI) is increasingly utilized in the surgical management of 
intra-axial tumor in adults following the demonstration of its effectiveness. In 
this article, we analyze the management of LGG using iMRI focusing on its impact 
on resection rate and its limits in the pediatric population.
METHODS: We performed review of the literature regarding the treatment of LGG 
using iMRI focusing on its impact on resection rate and its limits in the 
pediatric population. Some exemplary cases are also described.
RESULTS: Intraoperative MRI allowed extension of tumor resection after the 
depiction of residual tumor at the intraoperative imaging control from 21 to 
52 % of the cases in the published series. Moreover, the early reoperation rate 
was significantly lower when compared with the population treated without this 
tool (0 % vs 7-14 %). Some technical difficulties have been described in 
literature regarding the use of iMRI in the pediatric population especially for 
positioning due to the structure of the headrest coil designed for adult 
patients.
CONCLUSION: The analysis of the literature and our own experience with iMRI in 
children indicates significant advantages in the resection of LGG offered by the 
technique. All these advantages are obtained without elongation of the surgical 
times or increased risk for complications, namely infection. The main limit for 
a wider diffusion of iMRI for the pediatric neurosurgical center is the cost 
required, for acquisition of the system, especially for high-field magnet, and 
the environmental and organizational changes necessary for its use.

DOI: 10.1007/s00381-016-3177-0
PMID: 27659833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Br J Sports Med. 2017 Mar;51(5):469-477. doi: 10.1136/bjsports-2016-096130.
Epub  2016 Sep 22.

Impact of the Nordic hamstring and hip extension exercises on hamstring 
architecture and morphology: implications for injury prevention.

Bourne MN(1)(2)(3), Duhig SJ(2)(4), Timmins RG(5), Williams MD(6), Opar DA(5), 
Al Najjar A(7), Kerr GK(2)(4), Shield AJ(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation, Nutrition and Sport, La Trobe Sport and 
Exercise Medicine Research Centre, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Institute of Health and Biomedical Innovation, Queensland University of 
Technology, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(3)Queensland Academy of Sport, Centre of Excellence for Applied Sport Science 
Research, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(4)Faculty of Health, School of Exercise and Nutrition Science, Queensland 
University of Technology, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(5)School of Exercise Sciences, Australian Catholic University, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.
(6)Faculty of Life Sciences and Education, School of Health, Sport and 
Professional Practice, University of South Wales, Wales, UK.
(7)Centre for Advanced Imaging, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, 
Australia.

Erratum in
    Br J Sports Med. 2019 Mar;53(6):e2.

BACKGROUND: The architectural and morphological adaptations of the hamstrings in 
response to training with different exercises have not been explored.
PURPOSE: To evaluate changes in biceps femoris long head (BFLH) fascicle length 
and hamstring muscle size following 10-weeks of Nordic hamstring exercise (NHE) 
or hip extension (HE) training.
METHODS: 30 recreationally active male athletes (age, 22.0±3.6 years; height, 
180.4±7 cm; weight, 80.8±11.1 kg) were allocated to 1 of 3 groups: (1) HE 
training (n=10), NHE training (n=10), or no training (control, CON) (n=10). BFLH 
fascicle length was assessed before, during (Week 5) and after the intervention 
with a two-dimensional ultrasound. Hamstring muscle size was determined before 
and after training via MRI.
RESULTS: Compared with baseline, BFLH fascicles were lengthened in the NHE and 
HE groups at mid-training (d=1.12-1.39, p<0.001) and post-training (d=1.77-2.17, 
p<0.001) and these changes did not differ significantly between exercises 
(d=0.49-0.80, p=0.279-0.976). BFLH volume increased more for the HE than the NHE 
(d=1.03, p=0.037) and CON (d=2.24, p<0.001) groups. Compared with the CON group, 
both exercises induced significant increases in semitendinosus volume 
(d=2.16-2.50, ≤0.002) and these increases were not significantly different 
(d=0.69, p=0.239).
CONCLUSION: NHE and HE training both stimulate significant increases in BFLH 
fascicle length; however, HE training may be more effective for promoting 
hypertrophy in the BFLH.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/bjsports-2016-096130
PMID: 27660368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Onco Targets Ther. 2016 Sep 7;9:5521-30. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S112187.
eCollection  2016.

Incidence and mortality rates in breast, corpus uteri, and ovarian cancers in 
Poland (1980-2013): an analysis of population-based data in relation to 
socioeconomic changes.

Banas T(1), Juszczyk G(2), Pitynski K(1), Nieweglowska D(1), Ludwin A(1), Czerw 
A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Oncology, Jagiellonian University Medical 
College, Krakow.
(2)Faculty of Health Science, Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.

OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to analyze incidence and mortality trends in breast 
cancer (BC), corpus uteri cancer (CUC), and ovarian cancer (OC) in Poland in the 
context of sociodemographic changes.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Incidence and mortality data (1980-2013) were retrieved 
from the Polish National Cancer Registry, while socioeconomic data (1960-2013) 
were obtained from the World Bank. Age-standardized incidence and mortality 
rates were calculated by direct standardization, and join-point regression was 
performed to describe trends using the average annual percentage change (AAPC).
RESULTS: A significant decrease in birth and fertility rates and a large 
increase in gross domestic product were observed together with a decrease in the 
total mortality rate among women, as well as an increase in life expectancy for 
women. A large, significant increase in BC incidence was observed (AAPC1980-1990 
2.14, AAPC1990-1996 4.71, AAPC1996-2013 2.21), with a small but significant 
decrease in mortality after a slight increase (AAPC1980-1994 0.52, AAPC1994-2013 
-0.66). During the period 1980-2013, a significant increase in CUC incidence 
(AAPC1980-1994 3.7, AAPC1994-2013 1.93) was observed, with an initial 
mortality-rate reduction followed by a significant increase (AAPC1980-2006 
-1.12, AAPC2006-2013 3.74). After the initial increase of both OC incidence and 
mortality from 1994, the incidence rate decreased significantly (AAPC1980-1994 
2.98, AAPC1994-2013 -0.49), as did the mortality rate (AAPC1980-1994 0.52, 
AAPC1994-2013 -0.66).
CONCLUSION: After 1994, a decrease in OC incidence was found, while the 
incidence of BC and CUC continued to increase. A reduction in mortality rate was 
observed for BC and OC predominantly at the end of the study period, while for 
CUC, after a long decreasing mortality trend, a significant increase was 
observed.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S112187
PMCID: PMC5021054
PMID: 27660470


606. PLoS One. 2016 Sep 23;11(9):e0162556. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0162556. 
eCollection 2016.

The Salinity Responsive Mechanism of a Hydroxyproline-Tolerant Mutant of Peanut 
Based on Digital Gene Expression Profiling Analysis.

Sui J(1), Jiang D(2), Zhang D(1), Song X(1), Wang J(1), Zhao M(1), Qiao L(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science, Qingdao Agricultural University, Key Laboratory of 
Qingdao Major Crop Germplasm Resource Innovation and Application, Key Lab of 
Plant Biotechnology in Universities of Shandong, Qingdao 266109, China.
(2)College of Agronomy and Plant Protection, Qingdao Agricultural University, 
Qingdao 266109, China.

Soil salinity seriously limits plant growth and yield. Strategies have been 
developed for plants to cope with various environmental stresses during 
evolution. To screen for the broad-spectrum genes and the molecular mechanism 
about a hydroxyproline-tolerant mutant of peanut with enhanced salinity 
resistance under salinity stress, digital gene expression (DGE) sequencing was 
performed in the leaves of salinity-resistant mutant (S2) and Huayu20 as control 
(S4) under salt stress. The results indicate that major transcription factor 
families linked to salinity stress responses (NAC, bHLH, WRKY, AP2/ERF) are 
differentially expressed in the leaves of peanut under salinity stress. In 
addition, genes related to cell wall loosening and stiffening (xyloglucan 
endotransglucosylase/hydrolases, peroxidases, lipid transfer protein, expansin, 
extension), late embryogenesis abundant protein family, fatty acid biosynthesis 
and metabolism (13-lipoxygenase omega-6 fatty acid desaturase, omega-3 fatty 
acid desaturase) and some previously reported stress-related genes encoding 
proteins such as defensin, universal stress protein, metallothionein, peroxidase 
etc, and some other known or unknown function stress related genes, have been 
identified. The information from this study will be useful for further research 
on the mechanism of salinity resistance and will provide a useful genomic 
resource for the breeding of salinity resistance variety in peanut.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0162556
PMCID: PMC5035014
PMID: 27661086

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


607. Rev Med Chil. 2016 Jul;144(7):844-52. doi: 10.4067/S0034-98872016000700004.

[Effects of a resistance training program in patients with chronic kidney 
disease on hemodialysis].

[Article in Spanish]

Cigarroa I(1), Barriga R(1), Michéas C(1), Zapata-Lamana R(2), Soto C(1), 
Manukian T(1).

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Salud, Universidad Santo Tomás, Los Ángeles, Chile.
(2)Escuela de Educación, Universidad de Concepción, Los Ángeles, Chile.

