Place, London W2 1NY, UK.
(3)Section of Cardiovascular Medicine, Yale School of Medicine, 333 Cedar 
Street, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.
(4)Barts Heart Centre, St Bartholomew's Hospital, West Smithfield, London EC1A 
7BE, UK.
(5)Heart Hospital, Hamad Medical Corporation, Al Rayyan Road, Doha, Qatar.

Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is the most common inherited cardiovascular 
disorder, affecting 1 in 500 individuals worldwide. Existing epidemiological 
studies might have underestimated the prevalence of HCM, however, owing to 
limited inclusion of individuals with early, incomplete phenotypic expression. 
Clinical manifestations of HCM include diastolic dysfunction, left ventricular 
outflow tract obstruction, ischaemia, atrial fibrillation, abnormal vascular 
responses and, in 5% of patients, progression to a 'burnt-out' phase 
characterized by systolic impairment. Disease-related mortality is most often 
attributable to sudden cardiac death, heart failure, and embolic stroke. The 
majority of individuals with HCM, however, have normal or near-normal life 
expectancy, owing in part to contemporary management strategies including family 
screening, risk stratification, thromboembolic prophylaxis, and implantation of 
cardioverter-defibrillators. The clinical guidelines for HCM issued by the ACC 
Foundation/AHA and the ESC facilitate evaluation and management of the disease. 
In this Review, we aim to assist clinicians in navigating the guidelines by 
highlighting important updates, current gaps in knowledge, differences in the 
recommendations, and challenges in implementing them, including aids and 
pitfalls in clinical and pathological evaluation. We also discuss the advances 
in genetics, imaging, and molecular research that will underpin future 
developments in diagnosis and therapy for HCM.

DOI: 10.1038/nrcardio.2016.140
PMID: 27681577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Med Decis Making. 2017 Apr;37(3):285-297. doi: 10.1177/0272989X16670616.
Epub  2016 Sep 29.

Using Discrete Choice Experiments with Duration to Model EQ-5D-5L Health State 
Preferences.

Mulhern B(1)(2), Bansback N(3), Hole AR(4), Tsuchiya A(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Technology Sydney, Centre for Health Economics Research and 
Evaluation, Ultimo, Australia (BM).
(2)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, UK (BM, AT).
(3)School of Population and Public Health, University of British Columbia, 
Canada (NB).
(4)Department of Economics, University of Sheffield, UK (ARH).

BACKGROUND: Discrete choice experiments incorporating duration can be used to 
derive health state values for EQ-5D-5L. Yet, methodological issues relating to 
the duration attribute and the optimal way to select health states remain. The 
aims of this study were to: test increasing the number of duration levels and 
choice sets where duration varies (aim 1); compare designs with zero and 
non-zero prior values (aim 2); and investigate a novel, two-stage design to 
incorporate prior values (aim 3).
METHODS: Informed by zero and non-zero prior values, two efficient designs were 
developed, each consisting of 120 EQ-5D-5L health profile pairs with one of six 
duration levels (aims 1 and 2). Another 120 health state pairs were selected, 
with one of six duration levels allocated in a second stage based on existing 
estimated utility of the states (aim 3). An online sample of 2,002 members of 
the UK general population completed 10 choice sets each. Differences across the 
regression coefficients from the three designs were assessed.
RESULTS: The zero prior value design produced a model with coefficients that 
were generally logically ordered, but the non-zero prior value design resulted 
in a set of less ordered coefficients where some differed significantly. The 
two-stage design resulted in ordered and significant coefficients. The non-zero 
prior value design may include more "difficult" choice sets, based on the 
proportions choosing each profile.
CONCLUSIONS: There is some indication of compromised "respondent efficiency", 
suggesting that the use of non-zero prior values will not necessarily result in 
better overall precision. It is feasible to design discrete choice experiments 
in two stages by allocating duration values to EQ-5D-5L health state pairs based 
on estimates from prior studies.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X16670616
PMID: 27681988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Med Decis Making. 2017 May;37(4):353-366. doi: 10.1177/0272989X16670604.
Epub  2016 Sep 29.

Extrapolation of Survival Curves from Cancer Trials Using External Information.

Guyot P(1)(2), Ades AE(1), Beasley M(3), Lueza B(4)(5), Pignon JP(4)(5), Welton 
NJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK 
(PG, AED, NJW).
(2)Mapi, Houten, the Netherlands (PG).
(3)Bristol Haematology and Oncology Centre, Bristol, UK (MB).
(4)Gustave Roussy, Université Paris-Saclay, Service de biostatistique et 
d'épidémiologie / Ligue Nationale Contre le Cancer meta-analysis plateform, 
F-94805 Villejuif, France (BL, JP).
(5)Université Paris-Saclay, Univ. Paris-Sud, UVSQ, CESP, INSERM, F-94085 
Villejuif, France (BL, JP).

BACKGROUND: Estimates of life expectancy are a key input to cost-effectiveness 
analysis (CEA) models for cancer treatments. Due to the limited follow-up in 
Randomized Controlled Trials (RCTs), parametric models are frequently used to 
extrapolate survival outcomes beyond the RCT period. However, different 
parametric models that fit the RCT data equally well may generate highly 
divergent predictions of treatment-related gain in life expectancy. Here, we 
investigate the use of information external to the RCT data to inform model 
choice and estimation of life expectancy.
METHODS: We used Bayesian multi-parameter evidence synthesis to combine the RCT 
data with external information on general population survival, conditional 
survival from cancer registry databases, and expert opinion. We illustrate with 
a 5-year follow-up RCT of cetuximab plus radiotherapy v. radiotherapy alone for 
head and neck cancer.
RESULTS: Standard survival time distributions were insufficiently flexible to 
simultaneously fit both the RCT data and external data on general population 
survival. Using spline models, we were able to estimate a model that was 
consistent with the trial data and all external data. A model integrating all 
sources achieved an adequate fit and predicted a 4.7-month (95% CrL: 0.4; 9.1) 
gain in life expectancy due to cetuximab.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term extrapolation using parametric models based on RCT data 
alone is highly unreliable and these models are unlikely to be consistent with 
external data. External data can be integrated with RCT data using spline models 
to enable long-term extrapolation. Conditional survival data could be used for 
many cancers and general population survival may have a role in other 
conditions. The use of external data should be guided by knowledge of natural 
history and treatment mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X16670604
PMCID: PMC6190619
PMID: 27681990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


651. Eur J Health Econ. 2017 Jan;18(1):1-5. doi: 10.1007/s10198-016-0831-0.

Priorities in the Polish health care system.

Nieszporska S(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Management, Czestochowa University of Technology, Armii Krajowej 
19B, 42-200, Częstochowa, Poland. sylniesz@poczta.onet.pl.

Since 1999, Polish health policy has changed, the quality of services has 
increased, and also the level of financing, mainly from public benefits. Despite 
constant growth of indexes reflecting the health status of Polish society, such 
as life expectancy, quality of life, or decreasing index of deaths at birth, 
just as in the majority of European countries, in Poland the society is growing 
older, which implies the necessity to reorganize the system. In this paper, the 
author has described the most important factors that determine the operation of 
the health system in Poland, as well as presents the ways it was restructured 
over the last few years, taking into consideration the structural, legislative, 
financial, organizational, and quantitative aspects. Also, the latest trends in 
Polish health policy, which take into account new goals of the system, have been 
presented within.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-016-0831-0
PMCID: PMC5209398
PMID: 27682073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Acta Orthop Belg. 2016 Aug;82(2):397-404.

Effectiveness and safety of collagenase Clostridium histolyticum in Dupuytren's 
disease : an observational study in Belgium.

Verstreken F, Degreef I, Decramer A, Libberecht K, Vanhove W, Datco A, Vanhaecke 
J, Clermont D, Duerinckx J.

Dupuytren's disease is a connective tissue disorder leading to contractures. It 
can be treated surgically or through injections of collagenase Clostridium 
histolyticum (CCH). Patients with Dupuytren's contracture (> 20°) and a palpable 
cord were included in this observational study, aiming to characterise the 
Belgian patient population and to assess the effectiveness and safety of CCH. 
Overall, 108 patients (114 joints) received at least one injection of CCH, and 
104 patients completed the study. The percentages of joints achieving a degree 
of contracture of 5° or less, or a relative contracture reduction of at least 
50% after the extension procedure were 64.9% and 90.1%, respectively. The mean 
number of injections per cord was 1.0. The Unité Rhumatologique des Affections 
de la Main score decreased from 29.4 ± 11.0 to 12.9 ± 6.3 (mean ± SD ; 
p < 0.0001). CCH was demonstrated to be effective, safe and able to increase 
quality of life.

PMID: 27682305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Int Rev Immunol. 2017 May 4;36(3):182-203. doi:
10.1080/08830185.2016.1225300.  Epub 2016 Sep 28.

Renal transplant immunology in the last 20 years: A revolution towards graft and 
patient survival improvement.

Sá H(1)(2)(3), Leal R(1), Rosa MS(2).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Nephrology , Centro Hospitalar e Universitário de Coimbra , 
Coimbra , Portugal.
(2)b Faculty of Medicine , University of Coimbra , Coimbra , Portugal.
(3)c Immunology Center, Faculty of Medicine , University of Coimbra , Coimbra , 
Portugal.

To deride the hope of progress is the ultimate fatuity, the last word in poverty 
of spirit and meanness of mind. There is no need to be dismayed by the fact that 
we cannot yet envisage a definitive solution of our problems, a resting-place 
beyond which we need not try to go. -P.B. Medawar, 1969 * Thomas E. Starlz, also 
known as the Father of Clinical Transplantation, once said that organ 
transplantation was the supreme exception to the rule that most major advances 
in medicine spring from discoveries in basic science [Starzl T. The mystique of 
organ transplantation. J Am Coll Surg 2005 Aug;201(2):160-170]. In fact, the 
first successful identical-twin kidney transplantation performed by Murray's 
team in December 1954 (Murray J et al. Renal homotransplantations in identical 
twins. Surg Forum 1955;6:432-436) was the example of an upside down translation 
medicine: Human clinical transplantation began and researchers tried to 
understand the underlying immune response and how to control the powerful 
rejection pathways through experimental models. In the last 20 years, we have 
witnessed an amazing progress in the knowledge of immunological mechanisms 
regarding alloimmune response and an outstanding evolution on the identification 
and characterization of major and minor histocompatibility antigens. This review 
presents an historical and clinical perspective of those important advances in 
kidney transplantation immunology in the last 20 years, which contributed to the 
improvement in patients' quality of life and the survival of end-stage renal 
patients. In spite of these significant progresses, some areas still need 
substantial progress, such as the definition of non-invasive biomarkers for 
acute rejection; the continuous reduction of immunosuppression; the extension of 
graft survival, and finally the achievement of real graft tolerance extended to 
HLA mismatch donor: recipient pairs.

DOI: 10.1080/08830185.2016.1225300
PMID: 27682364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. BMJ. 2016 Sep 28;354:i5130. doi: 10.1136/bmj.i5130.

Transcatheter versus surgical aortic valve replacement in patients with severe 
aortic stenosis at low and intermediate risk: systematic review and 
meta-analysis.

Siemieniuk RA(1), Agoritsas T(2), Manja V(3), Devji T(4), Chang Y(4), Bala 
MM(5), Thabane L(4), Guyatt GH(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
1280 Main St West, Hamilton, ON, Canada L8S 4L8 Department of Medicine, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada reed.siemieniuk@medportal.ca.
(2)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
1280 Main St West, Hamilton, ON, Canada L8S 4L8 Division General Internal 
Medicine, and Division of Clinical Epidemiology, University Hospitals of Geneva, 
Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
1280 Main St West, Hamilton, ON, Canada L8S 4L8 Department of Internal Medicine, 
State University of New York at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY,USA VA WNY Health Care 
System at Buffalo, Department of Veterans Affairs, Buffalo, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
1280 Main St West, Hamilton, ON, Canada L8S 4L8.
(5)Department of Hygiene and Dietetics, Jagiellonian University Medical College, 
Kraków, Poland.

OBJECTIVE:  To examine the effect of transcatheter aortic valve implantation 
(TAVI) versus surgical replacement of an aortic valve (SAVR) in patients with 
severe aortic stenosis at low and intermediate risk of perioperative death.
DESIGN:  Systematic review and meta-analysis DATA SOURCES:  Medline, Embase, and 
Cochrane CENTRAL.
STUDY SELECTION:  Randomized trials of TAVI compared with SAVR in patients with 
a mean perioperative risk of death <8%.
REVIEW METHODS:  Two reviewers independently extracted data and assessed risk of 
bias for outcomes important to patients that were selected a priori by a 
parallel guideline committee, including patient advisors. We used the GRADE 
system was used to quantify absolute effects and quality of evidence.
RESULTS:  4 trials with 3179 patients and a median follow-up of two years were 
included. Compared with SAVR, transfemoral TAVI was associated with reduced 
mortality (risk difference per 1000 patients: -30, 95% confidence interval -49 
to -8, moderate certainty), stroke (-20, -37 to 1, moderate certainty), life 
threatening bleeding (-252, -293 to -190, high certainty), atrial fibrillation 
(-178, -150 to -203, moderate certainty), and acute kidney injury (-53, -39 to 
-62, high certainty) but increased short term aortic valve reintervention (7, 1 
to 21, moderate certainty), permanent pacemaker insertion (134, 16 to 382, 
moderate certainty), and moderate or severe symptoms of heart failure (18, 5 to 
34, moderate certainty). Compared with SAVR, transapical TAVI was associated 
higher mortality (57, -16 to 153, moderate certainty, P=0.015 for interaction 
between transfemoral versus transapical TAVI) and stroke (45, -2 to 125, 
moderate certainty, interaction P=0.012). No study reported long term follow-up, 
which is particularly important for structural valve deterioration.
CONCLUSIONS:  Many patients, particularly those who have a shorter life 
expectancy or place a lower value on the risk of long term valve degeneration, 
are likely to perceive net benefit with transfemoral TAVI versus SAVR. SAVR, 
however, performs better than transapical TAVI, which is of interest to patients 
who are not candidates for transfemoral TAVI.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION:  PROSPERO CRD42016042879.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.i5130
PMCID: PMC5040923
PMID: 27683246

Conflict of interest statement: All authors have completed the ICMJE uniform 
disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf and declare: no support from 
any organization for the submitted work; no financial relationships with any 
organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work in the previous 
three years; no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.


655. Front Biol (Beijing). 2015 Aug;10(4):333-357. doi:
10.1007/s11515-015-1367-x.  Epub 2015 Jul 30.

Less is more: Nutrient limitation induces cross-talk of nutrient sensing 
pathways with NAD(+) homeostasis and contributes to longevity.

Tsang F(1), Lin SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, College of Biological 
Sciences, University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA.

Nutrient sensing pathways and their regulation grant cells control over their 
metabolism and growth in response to changing nutrients. Factors that regulate 
nutrient sensing can also modulate longevity. Reduced activity of nutrient 
sensing pathways such as glucose-sensing PKA, nitrogen-sensing TOR and S6 kinase 
homolog Sch9 have been linked to increased life span in the yeast, Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae, and higher eukaryotes. Recently, reduced activity of amino acid 
sensing SPS pathway was also shown to increase yeast life span. Life span 
extension by reduced SPS activity requires enhanced NAD+ (nicotinamide adenine 
dinucleotide, oxidized form) and nicotinamide riboside (NR, a NAD+ precursor) 
homeostasis. Maintaining adequate NAD+ pools has been shown to play key roles in 
life span extension, but factors regulating NAD+ metabolism and homeostasis are 
not completely understood. Recently, NAD+ metabolism was also linked to the 
phosphate (Pi)-sensing PHO pathway in yeast. Canonical PHO activation requires 
Pi-starvation. Interestingly, NAD+ depletion without Pi-starvation was 
sufficient to induce PHO activation, increasing NR production and mobilization. 
Moreover, SPS signaling appears to function in parallel with PHO signaling 
components to regulate NR/NAD+ homeostasis. These studies suggest that NAD+ 
metabolism is likely controlled by and/or coordinated with multiple nutrient 
sensing pathways. Indeed, cross-regulation of PHO, PKA, TOR and Sch9 pathways 
was reported to potentially affect NAD+ metabolism; though detailed mechanisms 
remain unclear. This review discusses yeast longevity-related nutrient sensing 
pathways and possible mechanisms of life span extension, regulation of NAD+ 
homeostasis, and cross-talk among nutrient sensing pathways and NAD+ 
homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1007/s11515-015-1367-x
PMCID: PMC5036586
PMID: 27683589


656. J Nutr. 2016 Nov;146(11):2375-2382. doi: 10.3945/jn.116.231373. Epub 2016
Sep  28.

SNAP-Ed (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program-Education) Increases 
Long-Term Food Security among Indiana Households with Children in a Randomized 
Controlled Study.

Rivera RL(1), Maulding MK(2), Abbott AR(2), Craig BA(3), Eicher-Miller HA(4).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Nutrition Science and.
(2)Health and Human Sciences Extension, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN.
(3)Statistics and.
(4)Departments of Nutrition Science and heicherm@purdue.edu.

BACKGROUND: Food insecurity is negatively associated with US children's dietary 
intake and health. The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program-Education 
(SNAP-Ed) aims to alleviate food insecurity by offering nutrition, budgeting, 
and healthy lifestyle education to low-income individuals and families.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to evaluate the long-term impact of 
the Indiana SNAP-Ed on food security among households with children.
METHODS: A randomized, controlled, parallel study design with SNAP-Ed as an 
intervention was carried out during a 4- to 10-wk intervention period. 
Intervention group participants received the first 4 Indiana SNAP-Ed curriculum 
lessons. Study participants (n = 575) were adults aged ≥18 y from low-income 
Indiana households with ≥1 child living in the household. Both treatment groups 
completed an assessment before and after the intervention period and 1 y after 
recruitment. The 18-item US Household Food Security Survey Module was used to 
classify the primary outcomes of food security for the household and adults and 
children in the household. A linear mixed model was used to compare intervention 
with control group effects over time on food security.
RESULTS: Mean ± SEM changes in household food security score and food security 
score among household adults from baseline to 1-y follow-up were 1.2 ± 0.4 and 
0.9 ± 0.3 units lower, respectively, in the intervention group than in the 
control group (P < 0.01). The mean change in food security score from baseline 
to 1-y follow-up among household children was not significantly different in the 
intervention group compared with the control group.
CONCLUSIONS: SNAP-Ed improved food security over a longitudinal time frame among 
low-income Indiana households with children in this study. SNAP-Ed may be a 
successful intervention to improve food security.

© 2016 American Society for Nutrition.

DOI: 10.3945/jn.116.231373
PMID: 27683869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Occup Environ Med. 2016 Dec;73(12):846-848. doi: 10.1136/oemed-2016-103977.
Epub  2016 Sep 28.

Is diesel equipment in the workplace safe or not?

Vermeulen R(1), Portengen L(1).

Author information:
(1)IRAS, Institute for Risk Assessment Sciences, Utrecht University, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Occup Environ Med. 2017 Dec;74(12):926.
    Occup Environ Med. 2017 Dec;74(12):927.

OBJECTIVES: Recently, diesel motor exhaust (DME) has been classified as a known 
human carcinogen. We used data from epidemiological studies of diesel exposures 
to perform a quantitative risk assessment to calculate DME exposure levels, 
expressed as elemental carbon (EC), corresponding to acceptable risk (AR) and 
maximum tolerable risk (MTR) levels of 4 to 10-5 and 4 to 10-3 for the lifetime 
excess probability of dying from lung cancer.
METHODS: Previously published slope estimates (n=14) of the exposure-response 
curve (ERC) for EC exposure and lung cancer were used in life-table analyses to 
calculate EC exposure levels corresponding to the specified AR and MTR levels.
RESULTS: Considered ERC slope factors ranged from 0.00060 to 0.0012 natural 
logarithm of the relative rate (InRR) per μg/m3 years based on different 
selections of studies and study-specific risk estimates. Exposure limits based 
on these slope factors were between 0.009-0.017 and 0.85-1.67 μg/m3 EC for the 
AR and MTR, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Derived exposure limits based on the AR and MTR are around or well 
below 1 μg/m3 EC. Such limits are below current occupational exposure levels, 
and in some instances even below environmental exposure levels. Although 
uncertainties exist in the exact slope factors, these results indicate that an 
acceptable excess lung cancer mortality risk can only be achieved at very low 
DME exposure levels, suggesting that diesel engines using older technologies 
should be removed from the workplace when possible or emissions strictly 
controlled.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/oemed-2016-103977
PMID: 27683880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Multimorbidity: Assessment, Prioritisation and Management of Care for People
 with Commonly Occurring Multimorbidity.

National Guideline Centre (UK).

London: National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE); 2016 Sep.
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence: Guidelines.

Multimorbidity is usually defined as when an individual has two or more 
long-term conditions. Measuring the prevalence of multimorbidity is not 
straightforward since this will vary depending on which conditions are counted, 
but all recent studies show that multimorbidity is common, becomes more common 
as people age, and is more common in people from less affluent areas. A recent 
large UK based study found that 42% of the population had at least one of the 40 
conditions counted, and 23% had multimorbidity. Two-thirds of people aged 65 
years or over had multimorbidity, and 47% had three or more conditions. People 
living in the most deprived areas had double the rate of multimorbidity in 
middle age than those living in the most affluent areas. Put another way, they 
developed multimorbidity 10-15 years before their more affluent peers. The 
recognition of multimorbidity associated with socioeconomic depreivation is 
particularly important as NHS England has a legal duty to have regard to the 
need to reduce health inequalities. Whereas rates of multimorbidity in older 
people was largely due to higher rates of physical conditions, in the less 
affluent multimorbidity was due to combinations of physical and mental health 
conditions was common. For many people multimorbidity will present few problems 
but multimorbidity matters because it is associated with reduced quality of 
life, higher mortality, polypharmacy and high treatment burden, higher rates of 
adverse drug events, and much greater health services use including emergency 
hospital admissions. A particular issue for health services and clinicians is 
that pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment regimens can become 
burdensome in people with complex multimorbidity, and care can become 
uncoordinated and fragmented. Polypharmacy in people with multimorbidity is 
often driven by the introduction of multiple drugs intended to prevent future 
morbidity and mortality, but the case for using such drugs weakens as life 
expectancy reduces. The absolute difference made by each additional drug may 
also reduce when people are taking multiple preventative medicines. The 
implications of multimorbidity for organisation of healthcare are highly 
variable depending on which conditions an individual has. Groups of conditions 
which have closely related or concordant treatment, such as diabetes, 
hypertension and angina pose fewer problems of co-ordination than groups where 
treatment is discordant, such as people who experience both physical and mental 
health conditions. NICE guidelines have been developed for the management of 
many individual diseases and conditions. The aim of this guideline is to inform 
patient and clinical decision-making and models of care for people with 
multimorbidity who would benefit from an individual approach because of high 
impact on their quality of life or functioning due to their conditions or their 
treatments. Although this is a particular concern of generalists such as general 
practitioners or geriatricians, the guideline is also relevant to specialists 
since many of the patients they care for will have other significant conditions.

Copyright © National Institute for Health and Care Excellence, 2016.

PMID: 27683922


659. Orthopedics. 2017 Jan 1;40(1):e65-e76. doi: 10.3928/01477447-20160926-06.
Epub  2016 Sep 30.

Treatment of Massive Irreparable Rotator Cuff Tears: A Cost-effectiveness 
Analysis.

Kang JR, Sin AT, Cheung EV.

Massive irreparable rotator cuff tears cause significant shoulder pain and 
dysfunction. Physical therapy (PT), arthroscopic debridement with biceps 
tenotomy (AD-BT), and hemiarthroplasty (HA) are treatments shown to reduce pain 
and improve quality of life. Reverse total shoulder arthroplasty (RTSA) is a 
newer surgical treatment option that may offer improved function. A 
cost-effectiveness analysis of these interventions has never been performed, and 
no head-to-head comparative effectiveness trials currently exist. A Markov 
decision analytic model was used to compare RTSA, HA, AD-BT, and PT as 
treatments for elderly patients with massive irreparable rotator cuff tears. 
Probabilities for complications, perioperative death, conversion procedures, and 
reoperations were derived from the literature, and costs were determined by 
average Medicare reimbursement rates from 2011. Reverse total shoulder 
arthroplasty yielded the most quality-adjusted life years (QALY) with 7.69, but 
greater benefits came at higher costs compared with other treatments. 
Sensitivity analyses showed that PT was the most cost-effective intervention at 
a health utility of 0.75 or greater (QALY 7.35). The health utility of RTSA was 
0.72 or less (QALY 7.48) or RTSA probability of no complications was 0.83 or 
less (QALY 7.48 at cost of $23,830). Reverse total shoulder arthroplasty yielded 
benefits at a cost considered good value for money compared with other 
treatments. Reverse total shoulder arthroplasty is the preferred and most 
cost-effective treatment option for elderly patients with massive irreparable 
rotator cuff tears. For patients seeking pain relief without functional gains, 
AD-BT can be considered a cost-effective and cheaper alternative. The 
cost-effectiveness analysis approach can help guide clinical practice as well as 
the policies of health care systems and insurers. [Orthopedics. 2017; 
40(1):e65-e76.].

Copyright 2016, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/01477447-20160926-06
PMID: 27684078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. J Hypertens. 2017 Jan;35(1):178-187. doi: 10.1097/HJH.0000000000001126.

Cost-utility analysis of physician-pharmacist collaborative intervention for 
treating hypertension compared with usual care.

Kulchaitanaroaj P(1), Brooks JM, Chaiyakunapruk N, Goedken AM, Chrischilles EA, 
Carter BL.

Author information:
(1)aDepartment of Pharmacy Practice and Science, College of Pharmacy, University 
of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa, USA bHealth Economics Research Group (HERG), 
Department of Life Sciences, College of Health and Life Sciences, Brunel 
University London, Uxbridge, United Kingdom cDepartment of Health Services 
Policy and Management, Arnold School of Public Health, University of South 
Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina, USA dSchool of Pharmacy, Monash University 
Malaysia, Subang Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia eCenter of Pharmaceutical Outcomes 
Research (CPOR), Department of Pharmacy Practice, Faculty of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Naresuan University, Phitsanulok, Thailand fSchool of Pharmacy, 
University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, USA gSchool of Population Health, 
University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia hDepartment of 
Epidemiology, College of Public Health, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate long-term costs and outcomes attributable to a 
physician-pharmacist collaborative intervention compared with physician 
management alone for treating essential hypertension.
METHODS: A Markov model cohort simulation with a 6-month cycle length to predict 
acute coronary syndrome, stroke, and heart failure throughout lifetime was 
performed. A cohort of 399 patients was obtained from two prospective, cluster 
randomized controlled clinical trials implementing physician-pharmacist 
collaborative interventions in community-based medical offices in the Midwest, 
USA. Framingham risk equations and other algorithms were used to predict the 
vascular diseases. SBP reduction due to the interventions deteriorated until 5 
years. Direct medical costs using a payer perspective were adjusted to 2015 
dollar value, and the main outcome was quality-adjusted life years (QALYs); both 
were discounted at 3%. The intervention costs were estimated from the trials, 
whereas the remaining parameters were from published studies. A series of 
sensitivity analyses including changing patient risks of vascular diseases, 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis, and a cost-effectiveness acceptability curve 
were performed.
RESULTS: The lifetime incremental costs were $26 807.83 per QALY (QALYs 
gained = 0.14). The intervention provided the greatest benefit for the high-risk 
patients, moderate benefit for the trial patients, and the lowest benefit for 
the low-risk patients. If a payer is willing to pay $50 000 per QALY gained, in 
48.6% of the time the intervention would be cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: Team-based care such as a physician-pharmacist collaboration appears 
to be a cost-effective strategy for treating hypertension. The intervention is 
most cost-effective for high-risk patients.

DOI: 10.1097/HJH.0000000000001126
PMID: 27684354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Atherosclerosis. 2016 Nov;254:52-58. doi:
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2016.09.014.  Epub 2016 Sep 15.

Effects of cigarette smoking on cardiovascular-related protein profiles in two 
community-based cohort studies.

Huang B(1), Svensson P(2), Ärnlöv J(3), Sundström J(4), Lind L(4), Ingelsson 
E(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, 300 Pasteur Drive, Stanford, CA 94304, USA; 
Department of Medicine, Solna, Karolinska Institutet, 17176 Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Department of Medicine, Solna, Karolinska Institutet, 17176 Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(3)Department of Medical Sciences, Cardiovascular Epidemiology, Uppsala 
University, 75185 Uppsala, Sweden; School of Health and Social Studies, Dalarna 
University, 79188 Falun, Sweden.
(4)Department of Medical Sciences, Cardiovascular Epidemiology, Uppsala 
University, 75185 Uppsala, Sweden.
(5)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, 300 Pasteur Drive, Stanford, CA 94304, USA; 
Department of Medical Sciences, Molecular Epidemiology and Science for Life 
Laboratory, 75185 Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden. Electronic address: 
eriking@stanford.edu.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Cardiovascular diseases account for the largest fraction of 
smoking-induced deaths. Studies of smoking in relation to cardiovascular-related 
protein markers can provide novel insights into the biological effects of 
smoking. We investigated the associations between cigarette smoking and 80 
protein markers known to be related to cardiovascular diseases in two 
community-based cohorts, the Prospective Study of the Vasculature in Uppsala 
Seniors (PIVUS, n = 969, 50% women, all aged 70 years) and the Uppsala 
Longitudinal Study of Adult Men (ULSAM, n = 717, all men aged 77 years).
METHODS: Smoking status was self-reported and defined as current smoker, former 
smoker or never-smoker. Levels of the 80 proteins were measured using the 
proximity extension assay, a novel PCR-based proteomics technique.
RESULTS: We found 30 proteins to be significantly associated with current 
cigarette smoking in PIVUS (FDR<5%); and ten were replicated in ULSAM 
(p < 0.05). Matrix metalloproteinase-12 (MMP-12), growth/differentiation factor 
15 (GDF-15), urokinase plasminogen activator surface receptor (uPAR), 
TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand receptor 2 (TRAIL-R2), lectin-like 
oxidized LDL receptor 1 (LOX-1), hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), matrix 
metalloproteinase-10 (MMP-10) and matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP-1) were 
positively associated, while endothelial cell-specific molecule 1 (ESM-1) and 
interleukin-27 subunit alpha (IL27-A) showed inverse associations. All of them 
remained significant in a subset of individuals without manifest cardiovascular 
disease.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings of the present study suggest that cigarette smoking 
may interfere with several essential parts of the atherosclerosis process, as 
evidenced by associations with protein markers representing endothelial 
dysfunction, inflammation, neointimal formation, foam cell formation and plaque 
instability.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2016.09.014
PMID: 27684606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. PLoS One. 2016 Sep 29;11(9):e0162261. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0162261. 
eCollection 2016.

Oral Cooling and Carbonation Increase the Perception of Drinking and Thirst 
Quenching in Thirsty Adults.

Peyrot des Gachons C(1), Avrillier J(1)(2), Gleason M(1), Algarra L(1)(3), Zhang 
S(1), Mura E(4), Nagai H(4), Breslin PA(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Monell Chemical Senses Center, Philadelphia, PA, United States of America.
(2)AgroSup Dijon Institut National Superieur, Dijon, France.
(3)AgroParisTech Paris, Paris, France.
(4)Suntory Global Innovation Center Limited, Osaka, Japan.
(5)Rutgers University Department of Nutritional Sciences, New Brunswick, NJ, 
United States of America.

Fluid ingestion is necessary for life, and thirst sensations are a prime 
motivator to drink. There is evidence of the influence of oropharyngeal 
stimulation on thirst and water intake in both animals and humans, but how those 
oral sensory cues impact thirst and ultimately the amount of liquid ingested is 
not well understood. We investigated which sensory trait(s) of a beverage 
influence the thirst quenching efficacy of ingested liquids and the perceived 
amount ingested. We deprived healthy individuals of liquid and food overnight (> 
12 hours) to make them thirsty. After asking them to drink a fixed volume (400 
mL) of an experimental beverage presenting one or two specific sensory traits, 
we determined the volume ingested of additional plain, 'still', room temperature 
water to assess their residual thirst and, by extension, the thirst-quenching 
properties of the experimental beverage. In a second study, participants were 
asked to drink the experimental beverages from an opaque container through a 
straw and estimate the volume ingested. We found that among several oro-sensory 
traits, the perceptions of coldness, induced either by cold water (thermally) or 
by l-menthol (chemically), and the feeling of oral carbonation, strongly enhance 
the thirst quenching properties of a beverage in water-deprived humans 
(additional water intake after the 400 ml experimental beverage was reduced by 
up to 50%). When blinded to the volume of liquid consumed, individual's 
estimation of ingested volume is increased (~22%) by perceived oral cold and 
carbonation, raising the idea that cold and perhaps CO2 induced-irritation 
sensations are included in how we normally encode water in the mouth and how we 
estimate the quantity of volume swallowed. These findings have implications for 
addressing inadequate hydration state in populations such as the elderly.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0162261
PMCID: PMC5042416
PMID: 27685093

Conflict of interest statement: E. Mura is an employee of Suntory Ltd and H. 
Nagai was an employee of Suntory Ltd when the research was funded and conducted. 
All other authors have no competing interests. This does not alter the authors' 
adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


663. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2016 Oct;64(10):e109-e111. doi: 10.1111/jgs.14409. Epub
2016  Sep 29.

Barrett's Esophagus Commonly Diagnosed in Elderly Men with Limited Life 
Expectancy.

Ko MS(1), Fung KZ(2), Shi Y(1)(2), Espaldon R(1)(2), Shergill A(1)(3), Walter 
LC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California.
(2)Division of Geriatrics, San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center and 
University of California, San Francisco, California.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology, San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 
San Francisco, California.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.14409
PMCID: PMC5117442
PMID: 27685424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The editor in chief has reviewed the conflict of 
interest checklist provided by the authors and has determined that the authors 
have no financial or any other kind of personal conflicts with this paper.


664. Ir Med J. 2016 Apr 11;109(4):384.

Smoking Behaviour Among People Living with HIV and AIDS: A Sub-Group Comparison.

Babineau K(1), O'Dea S(1), Courtney G(1), Clancy L(1).

Author information:
(1)TobaccoFree Research Institute Ireland, DIT Kevin St, Focas Research 
Building, Camden Row, Dublin 8.

Recent advancements in the treatment of HIV have significantly improved 
long-term health outcomes and life expectancy among people living with HIV/AIDS. 
As such, healthcare professionals have begun to focus more seriously on health 
protective behaviour changes that could further reduce mortality including 
smoking and tobacco dependence. A cross-sectional survey was conducted with 438 
people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) attending a clinic in an urban area to 
measure current smoking behaviours. After removing missing data, the final 
sample was 402 service users. Among those surveyed 141 (35.0%) were current 
smokers with 35 (8.2%) ex-smokers. Rates among key sub-groups were higher. 
Comparatively, smoking prevalence was very low among African migrants (8, 7.2%), 
particularly African born women (1, 1.3%). In line with international studies, 
smoking prevalence among PLWHA was nearly double that of the general population. 
These findings come at a time when smoking in the general population in Ireland 
is at an all-time low, making the need to address tobacco dependence among PLWHA 
all the more vital.

PMID: 27685478


665. Exp Oncol. 2016 Sep;38(3):181-6.

Lactoferrin expression in breast cancer in relation to biologic properties of 
tumors and clinical features of disease.

Naleskina LA(1), Lukianova NY(1), Sobchenko SO(1), Storchai DM(1), Chekhun 
VF(1).

Author information:
(1)R.E. Kavetsky Institute of Experimental Pathology, Oncology and Radiobiology, 
NAS of Ukraine, Kyiv 03022, Ukraine.

To determine the patterns of lactoferrin (LF) expression in breast cancer (BC) 
in relation to biologic properties of the neoplasms and clinical features of the 
disease course.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Clinical specimens of 266 BC patients (115 patients with 
BC of stages I-II - retrospective study, and 151 BC patients - prospective 
study) were analyzed. Morphological, immunohistochemical and statistical methods 
were used.
RESULTS: The number of LF-positive tumors in retrospective and prospective 
groups was similar (52.1 and 52.8%, respectively). Among common clinical 
criteria for prognosis of the disease outcome in BC patients (patient's age; 
stage of the disease; histological type, differentiation grade, receptor status; 
presence of metastases), a strong correlation was found only between expression 
indexes of LF and estrogen receptors (ER). In ER-positive tumors expression of 
LF was significantly higher than in ER-negative tumors (35 vs 18%). 5-Year 
survival rate of BC patients was higher in LF-positive group (70 vs 52% in 
LF-negative group). The presence of regional metastasis tended to correlate with 
an increased number of LF-positive tumors. In the patients with invasive ductal 
carcinoma, expression level of LF moderately correlated with occurrence of 
luminal A subtype (r = 0.43), while in the patients with invasive lobular 
carcinoma this index strongly correlated with occurrence of luminal B subtype (r 
= 0.71). LF expression correlated positively with low and moderate 
differentiation grade of luminal B or basal tumors, and negatively with luminal 
B or basal tumors of high differentiation grade (r = -0.57 and -0.63, 
respectively).
CONCLUSION: It has been shown that LF expression in breast tumors correlated 
with life expectancy of BC patients and important physiologic and clinical 
features of the disease, while the character of such relation strongly depended 
on molecular phenotype of tumor, i.e. luminal A, luminal B or basal.

PMID: 27685526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Popul Stud (Camb). 2016 Nov;70(3):311-326. doi:
10.1080/00324728.2016.1224372.  Epub 2016 Sep 30.

The future of Australia's Indigenous Population, 2011-61.

Wilson T(1).

Author information:
(1)a Charles Darwin University.

Existing projections of Australia's Indigenous Population suffer from a number 
of limitations: problematic input data, unsatisfactory projection model design, 
and poor forecast performance. The aim of this study was to create a new model 
for projecting that population that better represents the demographic processes 
at work, and that makes use of a newly available data source on identification 
change. A new projection model is presented that explicitly incorporates 
ethnic-identification change, and mixed (Indigenous/Non-Indigenous) partnering 
and childbearing. It is a composite static-dynamic model which takes a 
multi-state form where data allow. The model was used to produce projections for 
the 2011-61 period. Rapid growth of the Indigenous Population is expected, with 
population momentum, identification change, and mixed partnering and 
childbearing shown to contribute more to growth than above-replacement fertility 
and increasing life expectancy. The future growth of Australia's Indigenous 
Population is thus intimately connected to its interaction with the 
Non-Indigenous Population.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.2016.1224372
PMID: 27687018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Nurs Outlook. 2017 Jan-Feb;65(1):9-17. doi: 10.1016/j.outlook.2016.08.001.
Epub  2016 Aug 31.

Embracing an "African Ethos" to facilitate African immigrants participation in 
medical genetics and genomics research.

Buseh AG(1), Stevens PE(2), Millon-Underwood S(2), Kelber ST(3), Townsend L(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, College of Nursing, Milwaukee, WI. 
Electronic address: aaronbg@uwm.edu.
(2)University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, College of Nursing, Milwaukee, WI.
(3)Center for Nursing Research and Evaluation, University of 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee, College of Nursing, Milwaukee, WI.

BACKGROUND: Limited published research exists on perceptions and potentials for 
black African immigrants' participation in medical genetics and genomics 
research.
PURPOSE: This study explores the inclination and disinclination of African 
immigrants to be involved in genetics and genomics research.
METHODS: In-depth qualitative interviews were employed in which a sample of 
black African immigrants 18 years and older (n = 34) were interviewed.
DISCUSSION: Barriers included contrary beliefs and customs about disease and the 
human body that differs from Western conceptions, and lack of genuine connection 
to the health care system. Facilitators included promotion of an "African 
ethos," wherein Africans unite with one another in a communal extension of self 
and robust community involvement across the life span of genetic studies.
CONCLUSION: It is important for researchers and genetic counselors to understand 
the sociocultural underpinnings of African immigrants about genetics and 
genomics research as an initial step to encouraging their participation.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.outlook.2016.08.001
PMID: 27687163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2017 Aug 1;72(8):1054-1061. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glw193.

A Long-lived Mouse Lacking Both Growth Hormone and Growth Hormone Receptor: A 
New Animal Model for Aging Studies.

Gesing A(1)(2)(3), Wiesenborn D(1)(4)(5), Do A(1)(6), Menon V(1)(7), Schneider 
A(1)(8), Victoria B(1), Stout MB(9), Kopchick JJ(10), Bartke A(2), Masternak 
MM(1)(11).

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine, Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences, University of 
Central Florida, Orlando.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Geriatrics Research, Southern Illinois 
University School of Medicine, Springfield.
(3)Department of Oncological Endocrinology, Medical University of Lodz, Poland.
(4)Department of Medical Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of 
Saarland, Homburg, Germany.
(5)Department of Biotechnology, University of Applied Sciences Kaiserslautern, 
Zweibrücken, Germany.
(6)Charles E. Schmidt College of Medicine, Florida Atlantic University, Boca 
Raton.
(7)Department of Cell Biology and Anatomy, School of Medicine, University of 
South Carolina, Columbia.
(8)Faculdade de Nutrição, Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, 
Brazil.
(9)Robert and Arlene Kogod Center on Aging, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.
(10)Edison Biotechnology Institute and Heritage College of Osteopathic Medicine, 
Ohio University, Athens.
(11)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, The Greater Poland Cancer Centre, 
Poznan, Poland.

Disruption of the growth hormone (GH) signaling pathway promotes insulin 
sensitivity and is associated with both delayed aging and extended longevity. 
Two kinds of long-lived mice-Ames dwarfs (df/df) and GH receptor gene-disrupted 
knockouts (GHRKO) are characterized by a suppressed GH axis with a significant 
reduction of body size and decreased plasma insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) 
and insulin levels. Ames dwarf mice are deficient in GH, prolactin, and 
thyrotropin, whereas GHRKOs are GH resistant and are dwarf with decreased 
circulating IGF-1 and increased GH. Crossing Ames dwarfs and GHRKOs produced a 
new mouse line (df/KO), lacking both GH and GH receptor. These mice are 
characterized by improved glucose tolerance and increased adiponectin level, 
which could imply that these mice should be also characterized by additional 
life-span extension when comparing with GHRKOs and Ames dwarfs. Importantly, our 
longevity experiments showed that df/KO mice maintain extended longevity when 
comparing with N control mice; however, they do not live longer than GHRKO and 
Ames df/df mice. These important findings indicate that silencing GH signal is 
important to extend the life span; however, further decrease of body size in 
mice with already inhibited GH signal does not extend the life span regardless 
of improved some health-span markers.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glw193
PMCID: PMC5861925
PMID: 27688483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Prostate Int. 2016 Sep;4(3):118-24. doi: 10.1016/j.prnil.2016.07.001. Epub
2016  Jul 25.

Incidence and mortality of prostate cancer and their relationship with the Human 
Development Index worldwide.

Hassanipour-Azgomi S(1), Mohammadian-Hafshejani A(2), Ghoncheh M(3), Towhidi 
F(4), Jamehshorani S(4), Salehiniya H(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, School of Health, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(2)Department of Social Medicine, School of Medicine, Rafsanjan University of 
Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
(3)Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Hamadan 
University of Medical Sciences, Hamadan, Iran.
(4)Imam Reza Hospital, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, 
Iran.
(5)Zabol University of Medical Sciences, Zabol, Iran; Department of Epidemiology 
and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to evaluate the incidence and mortality of 
prostate cancer and their relationship with the Human Development Index (HDI) 
and its components in Asia in 2012.
METHODS: This study was an ecological study conducted based on the GLOBOCAN 
project of the World Health Organization. The correlation between standardized 
incidence rate (SIR) and standardized mortality rate (SMR) of prostate cancer 
with HDI and its components was assessed using SPSS Inc Version 18.0 (Chicago).
RESULTS: There were 1,094,916 incident cases of prostate cancer and 307,481 
deaths recorded in 2012 worldwide. SIR and SMR due to HDI were 72 and 9.7 in 
very high human development regions, 37.5 and 12.9 in high human development 
regions, 7 and 3.7 in medium human development regions, and 14.9 and 12.1 in low 
human development regions per 100,000 people, respectively. A positive 
correlation of 0.475 was seen between SIR of prostate cancer and HDI 
(P ≤ 0.001). Also, a negative correlation of 0.160 was seen between SMR of 
prostate cancer and HDI (P = 0.032).
CONCLUSION: The incidence of prostate cancer is high in countries with higher 
development. A positive correlation was observed between the SIR of prostate 
cancer and the HDI and its components, such as life expectancy at birth, mean 
years of schooling, and the gross national income per capita. In addition, there 
was a negative correlation between SMR and HDI.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prnil.2016.07.001
PMCID: PMC5031898
PMID: 27689070


670. J Am Chem Soc. 2016 Oct 26;138(42):14100-14107. doi: 10.1021/jacs.6b09023.
Epub  2016 Oct 13.

Targeting 24 bp within Telomere Repeat Sequences with Tandem Tetramer 
Pyrrole-Imidazole Polyamide Probes.

Kawamoto Y(1), Sasaki A(2), Chandran A(1), Hashiya K(1), Ide S(2), Bando T(1), 
Maeshima K(2), Sugiyama H(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Graduate School of Science, Kyoto University , 
Sakyo, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan.
(2)Structural Biology Center, National Institute of Genetics, and Department of 
Genetics, School of Life Science, Graduate University for Advanced Studies 
(Sokendai) , Mishima, Shizuoka 411-8540, Japan.
(3)Institute for Integrated Cell-Material Science (WPI-iCeMS), Kyoto University 
, Sakyo, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan.

Synthetic molecules that bind sequence-specifically to DNA have been developed 
for varied biological applications, including anticancer activity, regulation of 
gene expression, and visualization of specific genomic regions. Increasing the 
number of base pairs targeted by synthetic molecules strengthens their sequence 
specificity. Our group has been working on the development of pyrrole-imidazole 
polyamides that bind to the minor groove of DNA in a sequence-specific manner 
without causing denaturation. Recently, we reported a simple synthetic method of 
fluorescent tandem dimer polyamide probes composed of two hairpin moieties with 
a linking hinge, which bound to 12 bp in human telomeric repeats 
(5'-(TTAGGG)n-3') and could be used to specifically visualize telomeres in 
chemically fixed cells under mild conditions. We also performed structural 
