DOI: 10.1007/s40520-016-0638-y
PMID: 27761759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Lifetime Data Anal. 2017 Oct;23(4):651-670. doi: 10.1007/s10985-016-9384-x.
Epub  2016 Oct 19.

Regression analysis of clustered failure time data with informative cluster size 
under the additive transformation models.

Chen L(1), Feng Y(2)(3), Sun J(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biostatistics, Washington University School of Medicine, Campus 
Box 8067, 660 S. Euclid Ave, St. Louis, MO, 63110, USA. lingchen@wustl.edu.
(2)School of Mathematics and Statistics, Wuhan University, Wuhan, 430072, China.
(3)Computational Science Hubei Key Laboratory, Wuhan University, Wuhan, 430072, 
China.
(4)Department of Statistics, University of Missouri, 146 Middlebush Hall, 
Columbia, MO, 65211, USA.

This paper discusses regression analysis of clustered failure time data, which 
occur when the failure times of interest are collected from clusters. In 
particular, we consider the situation where the correlated failure times of 
interest may be related to cluster sizes. For inference, we present two 
estimation procedures, the weighted estimating equation-based method and the 
within-cluster resampling-based method, when the correlated failure times of 
interest arise from a class of additive transformation models. The former makes 
use of the inverse of cluster sizes as weights in the estimating equations, 
while the latter can be easily implemented by using the existing software 
packages for right-censored failure time data. An extensive simulation study is 
conducted and indicates that the proposed approaches work well in both the 
situations with and without informative cluster size. They are applied to a 
dental study that motivated this study.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-016-9384-x
PMID: 27761797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Diabet Med. 2017 Jun;34(6):786-793. doi: 10.1111/dme.13274. Epub 2016 Nov
10.

Profile of diabetes in men aged 79-97 years: the Western Australian Health in 
Men Study.

Henze M(1)(2), Alfonso H(3), Flicker L(1)(4), George J(4), Chubb SAP(1)(5), 
Hankey GJ(1), Almeida OP(4)(6), Golledge J(7)(8), Norman PE(9), Yeap BB(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine and Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, Perth, 
Western Australia, Australia.
(2)Department of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Fiona Stanley Hospital, Perth, 
Western Australia, Australia.
(3)School of Public Health, Curtin University, Perth, Western Australia, 
Australia.
(4)Western Australian Centre for Health and Ageing, Centre for Medical Research, 
University of Western Australia, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.
(5)PathWest Laboratory Medicine, Fiona Stanley Hospital, Perth, Western 
Australia, Australia.
(6)School of Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Western 
Australia, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.
(7)Vascular Biology Unit, Queensland Research Centre for Peripheral Vascular 
Disease, School of Medicine, James Cook University, Townsville, Queensland, 
Australia.
(8)Department of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Townsville Hospital, 
Townsville, Queensland, Australia.
(9)School of Surgery, University of Western Australia, Perth, Western Australia, 
Australia.

AIMS: To investigate behavioural, physical and biochemical characteristics 
associated with diabetes in the oldest age group of elderly men.
METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional analysis of community-dwelling men aged 
79-97 years from Perth, Western Australia. Lifestyle behaviours, self-rated 
health, physical function, and fasting glucose and HbA1c levels were assessed.
RESULTS: Of 1426 men, 315 had diabetes (22%). Men with diabetes were of similar 
age to men without (84.9 vs 84.5 years; P = 0.14). Only 26.5% of men with 
diabetes self-rated their health as excellent or very good, compared with 40.6% 
of men without diabetes (P < 0.001). Diabetes was associated with less 
involvement with recreational walking (32.7 vs 41.0%; P < 0.01) and leisure 
activities (19.0 vs 26.5%; P < 0.01). Men with diabetes had poorer physical 
function on multiple measures, including longer times for the Timed Up-and-Go 
test (15.0 ± 6.9 s vs 13.4 ± 5.3 s; P < 0.001) and weaker knee extension (20.2 
vs 21.9 kg; P < 0.001). In multivariate analyses, diabetes was associated with 
an increased prevalence of myocardial infarction (odds ratio 1.80, 95% CI 
1.25-2.60; P < 0.001) and falls resulting in injury (odds ratio 1.55, 95% CI 
1.06-2.26; P = 0.02). Average HbA1c was 49 ± 8 mmol/mol (6.6 ± 0.8%) in men with 
diabetes, with 90.6% of these men on diet or oral hypoglycaemic therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: In older men, diabetes is associated with poorer self-perceived 
health, reduced healthy lifestyle behaviours and physical function, heart 
disease and injurious falls. The majority of these men with diabetes had good 
glycaemic control. Encouraging healthy lifestyle behaviours and improving 
physical function should be evaluated as interventions to improve 
quality-of-life and health outcomes.

© 2016 Diabetes UK.

DOI: 10.1111/dme.13274
PMID: 27761946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Chem Biol Drug Des. 2017 May;89(5):670-680. doi: 10.1111/cbdd.12888. Epub
2016  Nov 19.

Synthesis and evaluation of novel amonafide-polyamine conjugates as anticancer 
agents.

Wang Y(1), Zhang J(2), Li M(2), Li M(2), Xie S(2), Wang C(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Henan University, Kaifeng, 
China.
(2)Pharmaceutical College, Henan University, Kaifeng, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Natural Medicine and Immuno-Engineering, Henan University, 
Kaifeng, China.

With the aim of upregulating antitumor efficacy and downregulating adverse 
effects, the amino group in the three-position of amonafide aromatic ring was 
modified by coupling with different amine/polyamine motifs via two linkers. Two 
series of naphthalimide derivatives were designed and synthesized and evaluated 
for their antitumor properties in vitro and in vivo. The preliminary in vitro 
trials revealed that compounds with urea as the linker were not active, and the 
presence of aspirin elevated the potency of 6k against tumor cells, wound 
healing, and the protein expression of cyclic D1 and MMP9. The in vivo trials on 
three H22 tumor transplant models demonstrated that the combination of 6k and 
aspirin markedly improved the efficacy in terms of inhibitive effect, pulmonary 
metastasis, and extension of the life span. More importantly, the combination of 
6k and aspirin displayed the reduced side-effects compared to that of amonafide.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/cbdd.12888
PMID: 27762101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Br J Surg. 2017 Jan;104(1):98-107. doi: 10.1002/bjs.10317. Epub 2016 Oct 20.

Cost-effectiveness of emergency versus delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy for 
acute gallbladder pathology.

Sutton AJ(1)(2), Vohra RS(3), Hollyman M(4), Marriott PJ(4)(5), Buja A(6), 
Alderson D(7), Pasquali S(8), Griffiths EA(5); CholeS Study Group and the West 
Midlands Research Collaborative.

Collaborators: Vohra RS, Spreadborough P, Hollyman M, Marriott PJ, Kirkham A, 
Pasquali S, Alderson D, Griffiths EA, Fenwick S, Elmasry M, Nunes QM, Kennedy D, 
Khan RB, Khan MA, Magee CJ, Jones SM, Mason D, Parappally CP, Mathur P, Saunders 
M, Jamel S, Ul Haque S, Zafar S, Shiwani MH, Samuel N, Dar F, Jackson A, Lovett 
B, Dindyal S, Winter H, Fletcher T, Rahman S, Wheatley K, Nieto T, Ayaani S, 
Youssef H, Nijjar RS, Watkin H, Naumann D, Emesih S, Sarmah PB, Lee K, Joji N, 
Heath J, Teasdale RL, Weerasinghe C, Needham PJ, Welbourn H, Forster L, Finch D, 
Blazeby JM, Robb W, McNair AG, Hrycaiczuk A, Charalabopoulos A, Kadirkamanathan 
S, Tang CB, Jayanthi NV, Noor N, Dobbins B, Cockbain AJ, Nilsen-Nunn A, de 
Siqueira J, Pellen M, Cowley JB, Ho WM, Miu V, White TJ, Hodgkins KA, Kinghorn 
A, Tutton MG, Al-Abed YA, Menzies D, Ahmad A, Reed J, Khan S, Monk D, Vitone LJ, 
Murtaza G, Joel A, Brennan S, Shier D, Zhang C, Yoganathan T, Robinson SJ, 
McCallum IJ, Jones MJ, Elsayed M, Tuck E, Wayman J, Carney K, Aroori S, Hosie 
KB, Kimble A, Bunting DM, Fawole AS, Basheer M, Dave RV, Sarveswaran J, Jones E, 
Kendal C, Tilston MP, Gough M, Wallace T, Singh S, Downing J, Mockford KA, Issa 
E, Shah N, Chauhan N, Wilson TR, Forouzanfar A, Wild JR, Nofal E, Bunnell C, 
Madbak K, Rao ST, Devoto L, Siddiqi N, Khawaja Z, Hewes JC, Gould L, Chambers A, 
Rodriguez DU, Sen G, Robinson S, Carney K, Bartlett F, Rae DM, Stevenson TE, 
Sarvananthan K, Dwerryhouse SJ, Higgs SM, Old OJ, Hardy TJ, Shah R, Hornby ST, 
Keogh K, Frank L, Al-Akash M, Upchurch EA, Frame RJ, Hughes M, Jelley C, Weaver 
S, Roy S, Sillo TO, Galanopoulos G, Cuming T, Cunha P, Tayeh S, Kaptanis S, 
Heshaishi M, Eisawi A, Abayomi M, Ngu WS, Fleming K, Bajwa DS, Chitre V, Aryal 
K, Ferris P, Silva M, Lammy S, Mohamed S, Khawaja A, Hussain A, Ghazanfar MA, 
Bellini MI, Ebdewi H, Elshaer M, Gravante G, Drake B, Ogedegbe A, Mukherjee D, 
Arhi C, Iqbal LG, Watson NF, Aggarwal SK, Orchard P, Villatoro E, Willson PD, 
Mok J, Woodman T, Deguara J, Garcea G, Babu BI, Dennison AR, Malde D, Lloyd D, 
Satheesan S, Al-Taan O, Boddy A, Slavin JP, Jones RP, Ballance L, Gerakopoulos 
S, Jambulingam P, Mansour S, Sakai N, Acharya V, Sadat MM, Karim L, Larkin D, 
Amin K, Khan A, Law J, Jamdar S, Smith SR, Sampat K, O'shea KM, Manu M, Asprou 
FM, Malik NS, Chang J, Johnstone M, Lewis M, Roberts GP, Karavadra B, Photi E, 
Hewes J, Gould L, Chambers A, Rodriguez D, O'Reilly DA, Rate AJ, Sekhar H, 
Henderson LT, Starmer BZ, Coe PO, Tolofari S, Barrie J, Bashir G, Sloane J, 
Madanipour S, Halkias C, Trevatt AE, Borowski DW, Hornsby J, Courtney MJ, 
Virupaksha S, Seymour K, Robinson S, Hawkins H, Bawa S, Gallagher PV, Reid A, 
Wood P, Finch JG, Parmar J, Stirland E, Gardner-Thorpe J, Al-Muhktar A, Peterson 
M, Majeed A, Bajwa FM, Martin J, Choy A, Tsang A, Pore N, Andrew DR, Al-Khyatt 
W, Taylor C, Bhandari S, Chambers A, Subramanium D, Toh SK, Carter NC, Tate S, 
Pearce B, Wainwright D, Mercer SJ, Knight B, Vijay V, Alagaratnam S, Sinha S, 
Khan S, El-Hasani SS, Hussain AA, Bhattacharya V, Kansal N, Fasih T, Jackson C, 
Siddiqui MN, Chishti IA, Fordham IJ, Siddiqui Z, Bausbacher H, Geogloma I, 
Gurung K, Tsavellas G, Basynat P, Shrestha AK, Basu S, Mohan AC, Harilingam M, 
Rabie M, Akhtar M, Kumar P, Jafferbhoy SF, Hussain N, Raza S, Haque M, Alam I, 
Aseem R, Patel S, Asad M, Booth MI, Ball WR, Wood CP, Pinho-Gomes AC, Kausar A, 
Obeidallah MR, Varghase J, Lodhia J, Bradley D, Rengifo C, Lindsay D, Gopalswamy 
S, Finlay I, Wardle S, Bullen N, Iftikhar SY, Awan A, Ahmed J, Leeder P, Fusai 
G, Bond-Smith G, Psica A, Puri Y, Hou D, Noble F, Szentpali K, Broadhurst J, 
Date R, Hossack MR, Goh YL, Turner P, Shetty V, Riera M, Macano CA, Sukha A, 
Preston SR, Hoban JR, Puntis DJ, Williams SV, Krysztopik R, Kynaston J, Batt J, 
Doe M, Goscimski A, Jones GH, Smith SR, Hall C, Carty N, Ahmed J, 
Panteleimonitis S, Gunasekera RT, Sheel AR, Lennon H, Hindley C, Reddy M, Kenny 
R, Elkheir N, McGlone ER, Rajaganeshan R, Hancorn K, Hargreaves A, Prasad R, 
Longbotham DA, Vijayanand D, Wijetunga I, Ziprin P, Nicolay CR, Yeldham G, Read 
E, Gossage JA, Rolph RC, Ebied H, Phull M, Khan MA, Popplewell M, Kyriakidis D, 
Hussain A, Henley N, Packer JR, Derbyshire L, Porter J, Appleton S, Farouk M, 
Basra M, Jennings NA, Ali S, Kanakala V, Ali H, Lane R, Dickson-Lowe R, 
Zarsadias P, Mirza D, Puig S, Al Amari K, Vijayan D, Sutcliffe R, Marudanayagam 
R, Hamady Z, Prasad AR, Patel A, Durkin D, Kaur P, Bowen L, Byrne JP, Pearson 
KL, Delisle TG, Davies J, Tomlinson MA, Johnpulle MA, Slawinski C, Macdonald A, 
Nicholson J, Newton K, Mbuvi J, Farooq A, Mothe BS, Zafrani Z, Brett D, 
Francombe J, Spreadborough P, Barnes J, Cheung M, Al-Bahrani AZ, Preziosi G, 
Urbonas T, Alberts J, Mallik M, Patel K, Segaran A, Doulias T, Sufi PA, Yao C, 
Pollock S, Manzelli A, Wajed S, Kourkulos M, Pezzuto R, Wadley M, Hamilton E, 
Jaunoo S, Padwick R, Sayegh M, Newton RC, Hebbar M, Farag SF, Spearman J, Hamdan 
MF, D'Costa C, Blane C, Giles M, Peter MB, Hirst NA, Hossain T, Pannu A, 
El-Dhuwaib Y, Morrison TE, Taylor GW, Thompson RL, McCune K, Loughlin P, Lawther 
R, Byrnes CK, Simpson DJ, Mawhinney A, Warren C, McKay D, McIlmunn C, Martin S, 
MacArtney M, Diamond T, Davey P, Jones C, Clements JM, Digney R, Chan WM, McCain 
S, Gull S, Janeczko A, Dorrian E, Harris A, Dawson S, Johnston D, McAree B, 
Ghareeb E, Thomas G, Connelly M, McKenzie S, Cieplucha K, Spence G, Campbell W, 
Hooks G, Bradley N, Hill AD, Cassidy JT, Boland M, Burke P, Nally DM, Hill AD, 
Khogali E, Shabo W, Iskandar E, McEntee GP, O'Neill MA, Peirce C, Lyons EM, 
O'Sullivan AW, Thakkar R, Carroll P, Ivanovski I, Balfe P, Lee M, Winter DC, 
Kelly ME, Hoti E, Maguire D, Karunakaran P, Geoghegan JG, McDermott F, Martin 
ST, Cross KS, Cooke F, Zeeshan S, Murphy JO, Mealy K, Mohan HM, Nedujchelyn Y, 
Ullah MF, Ahmed I, Giovinazzo F, Milburn J, Prince S, Brooke E, Buchan J, Khalil 
AM, Vaughan EM, Ramage MI, Aldridge RC, Gibson S, Nicholson GA, Vass DG, Grant 
AJ, Holroyd DJ, Jones MA, Sutton CM, O'Dwyer P, Nilsson F, Weber B, Williamson 
TK, Lalla K, Bryant A, Carter CR, Forrest CR, Hunter DI, Nassar AH, Orizu MN, 
Knight K, Qandeel H, Suttie S, Belding R, McClarey A, Boyd AT, Guthrie GJ, Lim 
PJ, Luhmann A, Watson AJ, Richards CH, Nicol L, Madurska M, Harrison E, Boyce 
KM, Roebuck A, Ferguson G, Pati P, Wilson MS, Dalgaty F, Fothergill L, Driscoll 
PJ, Mozolowski KL, Banwell V, Bennett SP, Rogers PN, Skelly BL, Rutherford CL, 
Mirza AK, Lazim T, Lim HC, Duke D, Ahmed T, Beasley WD, Wilkinson MD, Maharaj G, 
Malcolm C, Brown TH, Shingler GM, Mowbray N, Radwan R, Morcous P, Wood S, Kadhim 
A, Stewart DJ, Baker AL, Tanner N, Shenoy H, Hafiz S, De Marchi JA, Singh-Ranger 
D, Hisham E, Ainley P, O'Neill S, Terrace J, Napetti S, Hopwood B, Rhys T, 
Downing J, Kanavati S, Coats M, Aleksandrov D, Kallaway C, Yahya S, Weber B, 
Templeton A, Trotter M, Lo C, Dhillon A, Heywood N, Aawsaj Y, Hamdan A, 
Reece-Bolton O, McGuigan A, Shahin Y, Ali A, Luther A, Nicholson JA, Rajendran 
I, Boal M, Ritchie J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Unit, Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, University of 
Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(2)National Institute for Health Research Diagnostic Evidence Co-operative 
Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(3)Trent Oesophago-Gastric Unit, Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Foundation 
Trust, Nottingham, UK.
(4)West Midlands Surgical Research Collaborative, Birmingham, UK.
(5)Department of Upper Gastrointestinal Surgery, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, 
Birmingham, UK.
(6)Laboratory of Public Health and Population Studies, Department of Molecular 
Medicine, University of Padua.
(7)Academic Department of Surgery, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.
(8)Surgical Oncology Unit, Veneto Institute of Oncology IOV-IRCCS, Padua, Italy.

Comment in
    Evid Based Med. 2017 Dec;22(6):221.

BACKGROUND: The optimal timing of cholecystectomy for patients admitted with 
acute gallbladder pathology is unclear. Some studies have shown that emergency 
cholecystectomy during the index admission can reduce length of hospital stay 
with similar rates of conversion to open surgery, complications and mortality 
compared with a 'delayed' operation following discharge. Others have reported 
that cholecystectomy during the index acute admission results in higher 
morbidity, extended length of stay and increased costs. This study examined the 
cost-effectiveness of emergency versus delayed cholecystectomy for acute benign 
gallbladder disease.
METHODS: Using data from a prospective population-based cohort study examining 
the outcomes of cholecystectomy in the UK and Ireland, a model-based 
cost-utility analysis was conducted from the perspective of the UK National 
Health Service, with a 1-year time horizon for costs and outcomes. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis was used to investigate the impact of parameter uncertainty 
on the results obtained from the model.
RESULTS: Emergency cholecystectomy was found to be less costly (£4570 versus 
£4720; €5484 versus €5664) and more effective (0·8868 versus 0·8662 QALYs) than 
delayed cholecystectomy. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that the 
emergency strategy is more than 60 per cent likely to be cost-effective across 
willingness-to-pay values for the QALY from £0 to £100 000 (€0-120 000).
CONCLUSION: Emergency cholecystectomy is less costly and more effective than 
delayed cholecystectomy. This approach is likely to be beneficial to patients in 
terms of improved health outcomes and to the healthcare provider owing to the 
reduced costs.

© 2016 BJS Society Ltd Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.10317
PMID: 27762448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Am J Hematol. 2016 Nov;91(11):1146-1159. doi: 10.1002/ajh.24553.

Systemic mastocytosis in adults: 2017 update on diagnosis, risk stratification 
and management.

Pardanani A(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology Department of Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota. pardanani.animesh@mayo.edu.

Disease overview:Systemic mastocytosis (SM) results from a clonal proliferation 
of abnormal mast cells (MC) in one or more extra-cutaneous organs.
DIAGNOSIS: The major criterion is presence of multifocal clusters of 
morphologically abnormal MC in the bone marrow. Minor diagnostic criteria 
include elevated serum tryptase level, abnormal MC expression of CD25 and/or 
CD2, and presence of KITD816V. Risk stratification: The 2008 World Health 
Organization (WHO) classification of SM has been shown to be prognostically 
relevant. Classification of SM patients into indolent (SM), aggressive SM (ASM), 
SM associated with a clonal non-MC lineage disease (SM-AHNMD) and mast cell 
leukemia (MCL) subgroups is a useful first step in establishing prognosis.
MANAGEMENT: SM treatment is generally palliative. ISM patients have a normal 
life expectancy and receive symptom-directed therapy; infrequently, 
cytoreductive therapy may be indicated for refractory symptoms. ASM patients 
have disease-related organ dysfunction; interferon-α (±corticosteroids) can 
control dermatological, hematological, gastrointestinal, skeletal and 
mediator-release symptoms, but is hampered by poor tolerability. Similarly, 
cladribine has broad therapeutic activity, with particular utility when rapid MC 
debulking is indicated; the main toxicity is myelosuppression. Imatinib has a 
therapeutic role in the presence of an imatinib-sensitive KIT mutation or in 
KITD816-unmutated patients. Treatment of SM-AHNMD is governed primarily by the 
non-MC neoplasm; hydroxyurea has modest utility in this setting; there is a role 
for allogeneic stem cell transplantation in select cases. Investigational drugs: 
Recent data confirms midostaurin's significant anti-MC activity in patients with 
advanced SM. Am. J. Hematol. 91:1147-1159, 2016. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.24553
PMID: 27762455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Anesth Analg. 2016 Nov;123(5):1302-1306. doi: 10.1213/ane.0000000000001592.

Hemodynamic Instability Following Airway Spray Cryotherapy.

Pedoto A(1), Desiderio DP, Amar D, Downey RJ.

Author information:
(1)From the *Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, Memorial 
Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY; and †Thoracic Division, Department 
of Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY.

BACKGROUND: Spray cryotherapy (SCT) of airway lesions is used to effectively 
palliate respiratory symptoms related to airway obstruction, but significant 
intraoperative hemodynamic complications have been noted. We reviewed the 
experience at a single institution using SCT for the treatment of obstructive 
airway tumors.
METHODS: A retrospective review of a single institution experience with 
intraoperative and postoperative hemodynamic complications associated with SCT 
was performed. Descriptive statistics were performed.
RESULTS: Between June 2009 and April 2010, 34 treatment sessions were performed 
on 28 patients. Median age was 60 years (range, 15-88 years). Tumor 
characteristics were as follows: 13 primary lung cancers (43%), 11 pulmonary 
metastases (50%), 1 direct extension of an esophageal cancer (3%), and 2 benign 
pulmonary lesions (7%). Twenty-one tumors (75%) were distal to the carina; 14 
(50%) were >95% occlusive. Median procedure length was 78 minutes (range, 15-176 
minutes). Eleven sessions (31%) led to severe hypotension and/or bradycardia, 
with 2 patients requiring cardiopulmonary resuscitation. One patient died 
intraoperatively after cardiac arrest; a second patient was stable 
intraoperatively but died within 24 hours of SCT. Four patients required 
reintubation and short-term mechanical ventilation.
CONCLUSIONS: Unpredictable life-threatening hemodynamic instability can follow 
endobronchial SCT. We propose that the most likely cause is pulmonary venous 
gaseous emboli entering the right heart, the coronary arteries, and the systemic 
circulation. Although SCT may offer advantages over airway laser therapy (such 
as no risk of fire and rapid hemostasis), further study is needed to delineate 
the relative likelihood of therapeutic benefit versus catastrophic 
complications.

DOI: 10.1213/ane.0000000000001592
PMCID: PMC5117828
PMID: 27763916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None


873. J Food Sci Technol. 2016 Jul;53(7):2966-2986. doi:
10.1007/s13197-016-2265-1.  Epub 2016 Jul 21.

Potential of carboxymethyl cellulose coating and low dose gamma irradiation to 
maintain storage quality, inhibit fungal growth and extend shelf-life of cherry 
fruit.

Hussain PR(1), Rather SA(1), Suradkar P(1), Parveen S(2), Mir MA(2), Shafi F(2).

Author information:
(1)Nuclear Research Laboratory, Astrophysical Sciences Division, Bhabha Atomic 
Research Centre, Zakura, Srinagar, 190006 India.
(2)Division of Post-Harvest Technology, Sheri Kashmir University of Agricultural 
Sciences and Technology (K), Shalimar, Srinagar, 190006 India.

Carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) coatings alone and in combination with gamma 
irradiation was tested for maintaining the storage quality, inhibiting fungal 
incidence and extending shelf-life of cherry fruit. Two commercial cherry 
varieties viz. Misri and Double after harvest at commercial maturity were coated 
with CMC at levels 0.5-1.0 % w/v and gamma irradiated at 1.2 kGy. The treated 
fruit including control was stored under ambient (temperature 25 ± 2 °C, RH 
70 %) and refrigerated (temperature 3 ± 1 °C, RH 80 %) conditions for evaluation 
of various physico-chemical parameters. Fruits were evaluated after every 3 and 
7 days under ambient and refrigerated conditions. CMC coating alone at levels 
0.5 and 0.75 % w/v was not found effective with respect to mold growth 
inhibition under either of the two conditions. Individual treatment of CMC 
coating at 1.0 % w/v and 1.2 kGy irradiation proved helpful in delaying the 
onset of mold growth up to 5 and 8 days of ambient storage. During 
post-refrigerated storage at 25 ± 2 °C, RH 70 %, irradiation alone at 1.2 kGy 
gave further 4 days extension in shelf-life of cherry varieties following 
28 days of refrigeration. All combinatory treatments of CMC coating and 
irradiation proved beneficial in maintaining the storage quality as well as 
delaying the decaying of cherry fruit during post-refrigerated storage at 
25 ± 2 °C, RH 70 % but, combination of CMC at 1.0 % w/v and 1.2 kGy irradiation 
was found significantly (p ≤ 0.05) superior to all other treatments in 
maintaining the storage quality and delaying the decaying of cherry fruit. The 
above combinatory treatment besides maintaining storage quality resulted in 
extension of 6 days in shelf life of cherry varieties during post-refrigerated 
storage at 25 ± 2 °C, RH 80 % following 28 days of refrigeration. Above 
Combination treatment gave a maximum of 2.3 and 1.5 log reduction in yeast and 
mold count of cherry fruits after 9 and 28 days of ambient and refrigerated 
storage, thereby ensuring consumer safety.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-016-2265-1
PMCID: PMC5052165
PMID: 27765967


874. Thromb J. 2016 Oct 4;14(Suppl 1):34. doi: 10.1186/s12959-016-0097-x.
eCollection  2016.

Comorbidities of cardiovascular disease and cancer in hemophilia patients.

Wang JD(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Rare Disease and Hemophilia, Department of Pediatrics, Taichung 
Veterans General Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan ; School of Medicine, China Medical 
University, Taichung, Taiwan.

As life expectancy greatly increases in persons with hemophilia (PWH), more 
age-related diseases such as cancer and cardiovascular disease (CVD) emerge 
among this patient group. The aim of this study was to review the available 
evidence on the epidemiology of CVD events, and incidence and survival of cancer 
in PWH. The prevalence of CVD events among PWH seems to be similar to that of 
the general population. Some known risk factors for the event, including aging, 
hypertension, and hyperlipidemia, are also associated with its occurrence in 
PWH. There is no evidence showing occurrence of the event directly to clotting 
factor concentrate administration. On the other hand, the incidence of non-virus 
related cancer seems to be higher in PWH than the general population. In 
addition, PWH with cancer were younger at the time of diagnosis. In regards to 
hemophilia effect on cancer prognosis, further basic and large-scale prospective 
studies are urgently needed.

DOI: 10.1186/s12959-016-0097-x
PMCID: PMC5056471
PMID: 27766060


875. Biomed Res Int. 2016;2016:3420638. doi: 10.1155/2016/3420638. Epub 2016 Sep
27.

A Review of Management of Inflammation in the HIV Population.

Slim J(1), Saling CF(2).

Author information:
(1)Saint Michael's Medical Center, Newark, NJ 07102-2094, USA; Saint Joseph's 
Regional Medical Center, Paterson, NJ 07503, USA; New York Medical College, 
Valhalla, NY 10595, USA.
(2)New York Medical College, Valhalla, NY 10595, USA; Internal Medicine, Saint 
Michael's Medical Center, Newark, NJ 07102, USA.

Advancements in antiretroviral therapy have drastically increased the life 
expectancy for those infected with HIV. Today, a new subgroup of older patients 
with long-term controlled HIV exists, and its populace is continuously mounting. 
Therefore, it is essential to understand the enduring effects of chronic 
suppressed HIV infection in order to further improve HIV management in these 
patients. This paper will examine the role of HIV in chronic inflammation and 
immune dysfunction, the dynamic interaction that exists between comorbidity and 
HIV, and the potential consequences of long-term antiretroviral therapy in an 
effort to provide the best management options for the virally suppressed HIV 
patient.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/3420638
PMCID: PMC5059528
PMID: 27766258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Arch Dermatol Res. 2017 Jan;309(1):11-19. doi: 10.1007/s00403-016-1698-8.
Epub  2016 Oct 20.

CD164 identifies CD4(+) T cells highly expressing genes associated with 
malignancy in Sézary syndrome: the Sézary signature genes, FCRL3, Tox, and 
miR-214.

Benoit BM(1), Jariwala N(1), O'Connor G(2), Oetjen LK(3)(4), Whelan TM(3), Werth 
A(1), Troxel AB(5), Sicard H(6), Zhu L(1), Miller C(1), Takeshita J(1), McVicar 
DW(2), Kim BS(3)(7)(8)(4), Rook AH(1), Wysocka M(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, 421 Curie Blvd, 1049 BRB, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.
(2)National Cancer Institute, Cancer and Inflammation Program, Frederick, MD, 
USA.
(3)Division of Dermatology, Department of Medicine, Washington University, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(4)The Division of Biology and Biomedical Sciences, Washington University, St. 
Louis, MO, USA.
(5)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Center for Clinical 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(6)Innate Pharma, Research and Drug Development, Marseille, France.
(7)Department of Anesthesiology, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(8)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, 
USA.
(9)Department of Dermatology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, 421 Curie Blvd, 1049 BRB, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA. 
mwysocka@mail.med.upenn.edu.

Sézary syndrome (SS), a leukemic variant of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL), is 
associated with a significantly shorter life expectancy compared to 
skin-restricted mycosis fungoides. Early diagnosis of SS is, therefore, key to 
achieving enhanced therapeutic responses. However, the lack of a biomarker(s) 
highly specific for malignant CD4+ T cells in SS patients has been a serious 
obstacle in making an early diagnosis. We recently demonstrated the high 
expression of CD164 on CD4+ T cells from Sézary syndrome patients with a wide 
range of circulating tumor burdens. To further characterize CD164 as a potential 
biomarker for malignant CD4+ T cells, CD164+ and CD164-CD4+ T cells isolated 
from patients with high-circulating tumor burden, B2 stage, and medium/low tumor 
burden, B1-B0 stage, were assessed for the expression of genes reported to 
differentiate SS from normal controls, and associated with malignancy and poor 
prognosis. The expression of Sézary signature genes: T plastin, GATA-3, along 
with FCRL3, Tox, and miR-214, was significantly higher, whereas STAT-4 was 
lower, in CD164+ compared with CD164-CD4+ T cells. While Tox was highly 
expressed in both B2 and B1-B0 patients, the expression of Sézary signature 
genes, FCRL3, and miR-214 was associated predominantly with advanced B2 disease. 
High expression of CD164 mRNA and protein was also detected in skin from CTCL 
patients. CD164 was co-expressed with KIR3DL2 on circulating CD4+ T cells from 
high tumor burden SS patients, further providing strong support for CD164 as a 
disease relevant surface biomarker.

DOI: 10.1007/s00403-016-1698-8
PMCID: PMC5357118
PMID: 27766406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interests Dr. Helene Sicard is 
employed by Innate Pharma, Marseille, France. The authors state no conflict of 
interest.


877. Qual Life Res. 2017 Apr;26(4):1059-1070. doi: 10.1007/s11136-016-1436-x.
Epub  2016 Oct 20.

Quality of life in people aged 65+ in Europe: associated factors and models of 
social welfare-analysis of data from the SHARE project (Wave 5).

Conde-Sala JL(1), Portellano-Ortiz C(2), Calvó-Perxas L(3), Garre-Olmo J(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology, University of Barcelona, Passeig Vall d'Hebron, 171, 
08035, Barcelona, Spain. jllconde@ub.edu.
(2)Faculty of Psychology, University of Barcelona, Passeig Vall d'Hebron, 171, 
08035, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Girona Biomedical Research Institute (IDIBGI), Salt, Spain.
(4)Department of Medical Sciences, University of Girona, Girona, Spain.

PURPOSE: To analyse the clinical, sociodemographic and socioeconomic factors 
that influence perceived quality of life (QoL) in a community sample of 33,241 
people aged 65+ and to examine the relationship with models of social welfare in 
Europe.
METHODS: This was a cross-sectional study of data from Wave 5 (2013) of the 
Survey of Health, Ageing and Retirement in Europe (SHARE). The instruments used 
in the present study were as follows: sociodemographic data, CASP-12 (QoL), 
EURO-D (depression), indicators of life expectancy and suicide (WHO), and 
economic indicators (World Bank). Statistical analysis included bivariate and 
multilevel analyses.
RESULTS: In the multilevel analysis, greater satisfaction in life, less 
depression, sufficient income, better subjective health, physical activity, an 
absence of functional impairment, younger age and participation in activities 
were associated with better QoL in all countries. More education was only 
associated with higher QoL in Eastern European and Mediterranean countries, and 
only in the latter was caring for grandchildren also related to better QoL. 
Socioeconomic indicators were better and QoL scores higher (mean = 38.5 ± 5.8) 
in countries that had a social democratic (Nordic cluster) or corporatist model 
(Continental cluster) of social welfare, as compared to Eastern European and 
Mediterranean countries, which were characterized by poorer socioeconomic 
conditions, more limited social welfare provision and lower QoL scores 
(mean = 33.5 ± 6.4).
CONCLUSIONS: Perceived quality-of-life scores are consistent with the 
sociodemographic and clinical characteristics of participants, as well as with 
the socioeconomic indicators and models of social welfare of the countries in 
which they live.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-016-1436-x
PMID: 27766517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Cancer Gene Ther. 2017 Mar;24(3):121-129. doi: 10.1038/cgt.2016.46. Epub
2016  Oct 21.

Chimeric antigen receptors for treatment of glioblastoma: a practical review of 
challenges and ways to overcome them.

Sengupta S(1)(2), Mao G(3), Gokaslan ZS(2), Sampath P(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Brain Tumor Laboratory, Roger Williams Medical Center, Providence, RI, USA.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Rhode Island Hospital, Providence, RI, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, Rhode Island Hospital, Providence, RI, USA.

Glioblastoma (GBM) is by far the most common and the most aggressive of all the 
primary brain malignancies. No curative therapy exists, and median life 
expectancy hovers at around 1 year after diagnosis, with a minute fraction 
surviving beyond 5 years. The difficulty in treating GBM lies in the cancer's 
protected niche within the blood-brain barrier and the heterogeneity of the 
cancer cells, which possess varying degrees of susceptibility to various common 
modalities of treatment. Over time, it is the tumor heterogeneity of GBM and the 
ability of the cancer stem cells to evolve in response treatment that renders 
the cancer refractory to conventional treatment. Therefore, research has 
increasingly focused on treatment that incorporates knowledge of GBM molecular 
biology to therapeutic strategies. One type of therapy that shows great promise 
is the area of T-cell immunotherapy to target GBM-specific tumor antigens. One 
attractive strategy is to use T cells that have undergone genetic modification 
to express a chimeric antigen receptor capable of interacting with tumor 
antigens. In this article, we will review chimeric antigen receptor T-cell 
therapy, their advantages, drawbacks, challenges facing their use and how those 
challenges may be overcome.

DOI: 10.1038/cgt.2016.46
PMID: 27767090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Macromol Biosci. 2017 Mar;17(3). doi: 10.1002/mabi.201600268. Epub 2016 Oct
21.

A Modified Polysaccharide-Based Hydrogel for Enhanced Osteogenic Maturation and 
Mineralization Independent of Differentiation Factors.

Sanyasi S(1), Kumar S(1), Ghosh A(2), Majhi RK(2), Kaur N(1), Choudhury P(1), 
Singh UP(3), Goswami C(2), Goswami L(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Biotechnology, KIIT University, Bhubaneswar, 751024, India.
(2)School of Biological Sciences, NISER, Bhubaneswar, 751024, India.
(3)School of Electronics Engineering, KIIT University, Bhubaneswar, 751024, 
India.

Bone related problems are increasing as a consequence of increased life 
expectancy, disorders in life style, and other medical conditions enforcing the 
need for functional bones prepared in vitro at affordable cost. Lack of suitable 
surface which promotes growth of both osteogenic and nonosteogenic cells is a 
major limitation. Here a novel biomaterial is reported that is synthesized from 
natural polysaccharide, namely, tamarind kernel polysaccharide (TKP), which is 
grafted with hydrophilic acrylic acid (AA) by radical polymerization. 
Modification in surface functionality removes unwanted proteins and alters 
hydrophilic/hydrophobic balance. TKP-AA is suitable for the growth of different 
nonosteogenic and osteogenic cells. This material is suitable for osteoblasts 
and promotes in vitro mineralization and differentiation without the addition of 
exogenous growth factors. TKP-AA can be used for the growth of mesenchymal stem 
cell-derived osteoblasts. It is suggested that TKP-AA can potentially be used as 
a scaffold for diverse cell types and particularly for bone tissue engineering 
at low cost.

© 2016 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/mabi.201600268
PMID: 27767291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. J Vis Exp. 2016 Oct 6;(116):54275. doi: 10.3791/54275.

Exergaming in Older People Living with HIV Improves Balance, Mobility and 
Ameliorates Some Aspects of Frailty.

Veeravelli S(1), Najafi B(2), Marin I(2), Blumenkron F(3), Smith S(3), Klotz 
SA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Interdisciplinary Consortium on Advanced Motion 
Performance (iCAMP), College of Medicine, University of Arizona.
(2)Interdisciplinary Consortium on Advanced Motion Performance (iCAMP), Division 
of Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy, Michael E. DeBakey Department of 
Surgery, Baylor College of Medicine.
(3)Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease, College of Medicine, 
University of Arizona.
(4)Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease, College of Medicine, 
University of Arizona; sklotz@u.arizona.edu.

Approximately 1.2 million people in the United States live with HIV infection. 
Medical advancements have increased the life expectancy and this cohort is 
aging. HIV-positive individuals have a high incidence of frailty (~20%) 
characterized by depression and sedentary behavior. Exercise would be healthy, 
but due to the frail status of many HIV-positive individuals, conventional 
exercise is too taxing. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness 
and acceptability of a novel game-based training program (exergame) in 
ameliorating some aspects of frailty in HIV-infected individuals. Ten older 
people living with HIV were enrolled in an exergame intervention. Patients 
performed balance exercises such as weight shifting, ankle reaching, and 
obstacle crossing. Real-time visual/audio lower-extremity joint motion feedback 
was provided using wearable sensors to assist feedback and encourage subjects to 
accurately execute each exercise task. Patients trained twice a week for 45 min 
for 6 weeks. Changes in balance, gait, psychosocial parameters and quality of 
life parameters were assessed at the beginning, midterm and at conclusion of the 
training program. Ten patients completed the study and their results analyzed. 
The mean age was 57.2 ± 9.2 years. The participants showed a significant 
reduction in center of mass sway (78.2%, p = .045) during the semi-tandem 
balance stance with eyes closed and showed a significant increase in gait speed 
during a dual task motor-cognitive assessment (9.3%, p = .048) with an increase 
in stride velocity of over 0.1 m/sec. A significant reduction in reported pain 
occurred (43.5%, p = .041). Preliminary results of this exergame intervention 
show promise in improving balance and mobility while requiring older people 
living with HIV to be more active. The exergame can be continued at home and may 
have long term as well as short-term benefits for ameliorating frailty 
associated with HIV infection.

DOI: 10.3791/54275
PMCID: PMC5092148
PMID: 27768079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Health Promot Chronic Dis Prev Can. 2016 Oct;36(10):205-213. doi: 
10.24095/hpcdp.36.10.01.

Describing the population health burden of depression: health-adjusted life 
expectancy by depression status in Canada.

Steensma C(1)(2), Loukine L(1), Orpana H(1)(3), McRae L(1), Vachon J(1), Mo 
F(1), Boileau-Falardeau M(1)(2), Reid C(1), Choi BC(1)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Health Promotion and Chronic Disease Prevention Branch, Public Health Agency 
of Canada, Government of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, Université de Montréal, 
Montréal, Quebec, Canada.
(3)School of Psychology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(5)Injury Prevention Research Center, Shantou University Medical College, 
Shantou, China.

INTRODUCTION: Few studies have evaluated the impact of depression in terms of 
losses to both premature mortality and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) on 
the overall population. Health-adjusted life expectancy (HALE) is a summary 
measure of population health that combines both morbidity and mortality into a 
single summary statistic that describes the current health status of a 
population.
METHODS: We estimated HALE for the Canadian adult population according to 
depression status. National Population Health Survey (NPHS) participants 20 
years and older (n = 12 373) were followed for mortality outcomes from 1994 to 
2009, based on depression status. Depression was defined as having likely 
experienced a major depressive episode in the previous year as measured by the 
Composite International Diagnostic Interview Short Form. Life expectancy was 
estimated by building period abridged life tables by sex and depression status 
using the relative risks of mortality from the NPHS and mortality data from the 
Canadian Chronic Disease Surveillance System (2007-2009). The Canadian Community 
Health Survey (2009/10) provided estimates of depression prevalence and Health 
Utilities Index as a measure of HRQOL. Using the combined mortality, depression 
prevalence and HRQOL estimates, HALE was estimated for the adult population 
according to depression status and by sex.
RESULTS: For the population of women with a recent major depressive episode, 
HALE at 20 years of age was 42.0 years (95% CI: 40.2-43.8) compared to 57.0 
years (95% CI: 56.8-57.2) for women without a recent major depressive episode. 
For the population of Canadian men, HALE at 20 was 39.0 years (95% CI: 
36.5-41.5) for those with a recent major depressive episode compared to 53.8 
years (95% CI: 53.6-54.0) for those without. For the 15.0-year difference in 
HALE between women with and without depression, 12.3 years can be attributed to 
the HRQOL gap and the remaining 2.7 years to the mortality gap. The 14.8 fewer 
years of HALE observed for men with depression equated to a 13.0-year HRQOL gap 
and a 1.8-year mortality gap.
CONCLUSION: The population of adult men and women with depression in Canada had 
substantially lower healthy life expectancy than those without depression. Much 
of this gap is explained by lower levels of HRQOL, but premature mortality also 
plays a role.

Publisher: INTRODUCTION: Peu d’études ont évalué, dans l’ensemble d’une 
population, les conséquences de la dépression en matière de pertes dues à la 
mortalité prématurée d’une part et à la qualité de vie liée à la santé (QVLS) 
d’autre part. L’espérance de vie ajustée en fonction de la santé (EVAS) est une 
mesure synthétique de la santé de la population qui combine la morbidité et la 
mortalité en une seule statistique succincte décrivant l’état de santé d’une 
population à un moment donné.
MÉTHODOLOGIE: Nous avons estimé la QVLS de la population canadienne adulte en 
fonction de la présence ou non de dépression. Nous avons effectué un suivi de la 
mortalité, de 1994 à 2009, des participants à l’Enquête nationale sur la santé 
de la population (ENSP) (n = 12 373) de 20 ans et plus, là aussi en fonction de 
la présence ou non de dépression. La dépression a été définie comme l’état d’une 
personne susceptible d’avoir connu au cours de l’année précédente un épisode 
dépressif majeur au sens du formulaire abrégé de l’Entrevue composite 
diagnostique internationale. L’espérance de vie a été estimée en créant des 
tables abrégées de mortalité selon le sexe et l’état dépressif à l’aide des 
risques relatifs de mortalité de l’ENSP et des données sur la mortalité du 
Système canadien de surveillance des maladies chroniques (2007 à 2009). 
L’Enquête sur la santé dans les collectivités canadiennes (2009-2010) a fourni 
des estimations de la prévalence de la dépression, et l’indice de l’état de 
santé Health Utilities Index a permis de mesurer la QVLS. L’EVAS de la 
population adulte a été mesurée en fonction de la présence ou non de dépression 
et en fonction du sexe à l’aide des estimations combinées de la mortalité, de la 
prévalence de la dépression et de la QVLS.
RÉSULTATS: Chez les femmes ayant connu récemment un épisode de dépression 
majeure, l’EVAS à 20 ans était de 42,0 ans (IC à 95 % : 40,2 à 43,8), contre 
57,0 ans (IC à 95 % : 56,8 à 57,2) chez les femmes n’ayant pas vécu récemment 
d’épisode de dépression majeure. Au sein de la population masculine canadienne, 
l’EVAS à 20 ans était de 39,0 ans (IC à 95 % : 36,5 à 41,5) chez ceux qui 
avaient connu récemment un épisode de dépression majeure, contre 53,8 ans (IC à 
95 % : 53,6 à 54,0) chez ceux n’ayant pas connu récemment d’épisode de 
dépression majeure. La différence de 15 ans dans l’EVAS des femmes avec et sans 
épisode récent de dépression majeure peut se décomposer en 12,3 ans attribuables 
à l’écart de la QVLS et 2,7 ans à l’écart observé en matière de mortalité. Les 
14,8 années de moins d’EVAS chez les hommes ayant souffert de dépression 
correspondent à un écart de la QVLS de 13 ans et à un écart de mortalité de 1,8 
an.
CONCLUSION: La population canadienne adulte atteinte de dépression au Canada 
avait une espérance de vie en santé considérablement plus faible que celle ne 
souffrant pas de dépression, chez les hommes comme chez les femmes. Si la 
majeure partie de cet écart s’explique par des niveaux moins élevés de la QVLS, 
la mortalité prématurée joue également un rôle.

DOI: 10.24095/hpcdp.36.10.01
PMCID: PMC5158123
PMID: 27768557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. PLoS One. 2016 Oct 21;11(10):e0164362. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0164362. 
eCollection 2016.

The Economic Burden of Road Traffic Injuries on Households in South Asia.

Alam K(1)(2), Mahal A(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, 50 Flemington Road, Parkville, 
Victoria, 3052, Australia.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, The University of Melbourne, 50 Flemington Road, 
Parkville, Victoria, 3052, Australia.
(3)Nossal Institute for Global Health, The University of Melbourne, 161 Barry 
Street, 4th Floor, Carlton, VIC 3053, Australia.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, Level 
6, The Alfred Centre, 99 Commercial Road, Melbourne, VIC 3004, Australia.

Globally, road traffic injuries accounted for about 1.36 million deaths in 2015 
and are projected to become the fourth leading cause of disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs) lost by 2030. One-fifth of these deaths occurred in South Asia 
where road traffic injuries are projected to increase by 144% by 2020. Despite 
this rapidly increasing disease burden there is limited evidence on the economic 
burden of road traffic injuries on households in South Asia. We applied a novel 
coarsened exact matching method to assess the household economic burden of road 
traffic injuries using nationally representative World Health Survey data from 
five South Asian countries- Bangladesh, India, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka 
collected during 2002-2003. We examined the impact of road traffic injuries on 
household out-of-pocket (OOP) health spending, household non-medical consumption 
expenditure and the employment status of the traffic injury-affected respondent. 
We exactly matched a household (after 'coarsening') where a respondent reported 
being involved in a road traffic injury to households where the respondent did 
not report a road traffic injury on each of multiple observed household 
characteristics. Our analysis found that road traffic injury-affected households 
had significantly higher levels of OOP health spending per member (I$0.75, 
p<0.01), higher OOP spending on drugs per member (I$0.30, p = 0.03), and higher 
OOP hospital spending per member (I$0.29, p<0.01) in the four weeks preceding 
the survey. Indicators of "catastrophic spending" were also significantly higher 
in road traffic injury-affected households: 6.45% (p<0.01) for a threshold of 
OOP health spending to total household spending ratio of 20%, and 7.40% (p<0.01) 
for a threshold of OOP health spending to household 'capacity to pay' ratio of 
40%. However, no statistically significant effects were observed for household 
non-medical consumption expenditure, and employment status of the road traffic 
injury-affected individual. Our analysis points to the need for financial risk 
protection against the road traffic injury-related OOP health expenditure and a 
focus on prevention.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0164362
PMCID: PMC5074502
PMID: 27768701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


883. Soc Sci Med. 2016 Dec;170:87-96. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2016.08.048. Epub
2016  Sep 28.

Decolonization and life expectancy in the Caribbean.

Verstraeten SP(1), van Oers HA(2), Mackenbach JP(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; 
Institute for Public Health (VIC), Ministry of Public Health, Environment and 
Nature, Willemstad, Curaçao. Electronic address: S.verstraeten@vic.cw.
(2)Scientific Centre for Transformation in Care and Welfare (Tranzo), University 
of Tilburg, Tilburg, The Netherlands; National Institute for Public Health and 
the Environment, Bilthoven, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Decolonization has brought political independence to half the Caribbean states 
in the last half of the 20th century, while the other states remain affiliated. 
Previous studies suggested a beneficial impact of affiliated status on 
population health, which may be mediated by more favorable economic development. 
We assessed how disparities in life expectancy between currently sovereign and 
affiliated states developed over time, whether decolonization coincided with 
changes in life expectancy, and whether decolonization coincided with similar 
changes in GDP per capita. Time-series data on life expectancy and related 
variables, GDP per capita and political status were collected from harmonized 
databases. We quantified variations in life expectancy by current political 
status during the 1950-2010 period. We assessed whether decolonization coincided 
with life expectancy trend changes by: 1. calculating the annual changes before 
and after independence, and 2. evaluating trend breaks in a predefined period 
during decolonization using joinpoint analyses. Similar analyses were undertaken 
for GDP per capita. Life expectancy in currently sovereign Caribbean states was 
already lower than in affiliated states before political independence. Overall, 
decolonization coincided with reductions in life expectancy growth, but not with 
reductions in economic growth, and changes in life expectancy growth in the 
decade after independence did not correspond with changes in economic 
performance. The widening of the life expectancy gap between currently sovereign 
and affiliated states accelerated in the 1990's and continues to increase. 
Despite considerable life expectancy gains in all Caribbean states, life 
expectancy in currently sovereign states increasingly lags behind that of states 
which remained affiliated. Our results indicate that changing economic 
conditions were not the main determinant of the unfavorable trends in life 
expectancy during and after decolonization. Circumstantial evidence points to 
the weakening of bureaucracies during decolonization underlying the uneven life 
expectancy developments of currently affiliated and sovereign states.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2016.08.048
PMID: 27768942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Environ Pollut. 2017 Jan;220(Pt A):713-719. doi:
10.1016/j.envpol.2016.10.036.  Epub 2016 Oct 18.

The short term burden of ambient particulate matters on non-accidental mortality 
and years of life lost: A ten-year multi-district study in Tianjin, China.

Zeng Q(1), Ni Y(1), Jiang G(1), Li G(2), Pan X(3).

Author information:
(1)Tianjin Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Tianjin 300011, PR China.
(2)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health, School of Public Health, 
Peking University, Beijing 100191, PR China. Electronic address: 
liguoxing@bjmu.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health, School of Public Health, 
Peking University, Beijing 100191, PR China.

Years of life lost (YLL) is a more informative and accurate indicator than daily 
death counts for assessing air pollution related premature death. However, there 
is limited evidence available about the relationship of air pollution with YLL, 
especially in China. We conducted a ten-year (from January 1st, 2001 to December 
31st, 2010) multi-district time-series study to estimate the effects of ambient 
particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter of less than 10 μm in size 
(PM10) on daily non-accidental deaths and YLL in six districts of Tianjin, 
China. Meta-analysis was used to merge the results of the six districts. We 
found that the increase of PM10 was significantly associated with daily death 
and YLL in the six districts, except with the YLL in Heping district. 10 μg/m3 
increases in PM10 were associated with the maximum increases in excess risk (ER) 
of death counts of 0.33% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.25%, 0.41%) at lag01 
and in YLL of 0.80 (95%CI: 0.47, 1.13) person year at lag01 for the combined 
effects of six districts, respectively. Moreover, the associations of PM10 on 
daily death counts and YLL were stronger in the elder people (≥65 years) than 
those in the younger ones (<65 years). These findings may help to shed light on 
the policy-making of PM-control in China and provide useful information for the 
protection of susceptible population.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2016.10.036
PMID: 27769772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Eur J Endocrinol. 2017 Jan;176(1):67-75. doi: 10.1530/EJE-16-0450. Epub 2016
Oct  21.

Life expectancy in patients with pituitary adenoma receiving growth hormone 
replacement.

Olsson DS(1), Trimpou P(2), Hallén T(3), Bryngelsson IL(4), Andersson E(5), 
Skoglund T(3), Bengtsson BÅ(2), Johannsson G(2), Nilsson AG(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of EndocrinologyInstitute of Medicine, Sahlgrenska Academy, 
University of Gothenburg and Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Göteborg, Sweden 
daniel.olsson@gu.se.
(2)Department of EndocrinologyInstitute of Medicine, Sahlgrenska Academy, 
University of Gothenburg and Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Göteborg, Sweden.
(3)Department of NeurosurgerySahlgrenska University Hospital, Göteborg, Sweden.
(4)Department of Occupational and Environmental MedicineÖrebro University 
Hospital, Örebro, Sweden.
(5)Department of Occupational and Environmental MedicineSahlgrenska University 
Hospital, Göteborg, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: Hypopituitarism has been associated with increased mortality. The 
excess mortality may be due to untreated growth hormone (GH) deficiency but also 
due to various underlying disorders. We therefore analysed mortality in patients 
with only one underlying disorder, non-functioning pituitary adenoma (NFPA), 
with and without GH replacement therapy (GHRT).
DESIGN AND METHOD: Patients with NFPA in the western region of Sweden, 
1997-2011, were identified through the National Patient Registry and 
cross-referenced with several National Health Registries. All patient records 
were reviewed. Standardised mortality ratios (SMRs) with 95% confidence 
intervals (CIs) were calculated using the general population as reference. 
Cox-regression models were performed to identify predictors of mortality.
RESULTS: A total of 426 NFPA patients with 4599 patient-years were included, of 
whom 207 had used GHRT and 219 had not received GHRT. Median (range) follow-up 
in patients with and without GHRT was 12.2 (0-25) and 8.2 (0-27) years, 
respectively. Other pituitary hormone deficiencies were more frequent in the 
GHRT group than those in the non-GHRT group. SMR was 0.65 (95% CI, 0.44-0.94; 
P = 0.018) for the GHRT group and 1.16 (0.94-1.42; P = 0.17) for the non-GHRT 
group. Direct comparison between the groups showed reduced mortality among those 
who were GH replaced (P = 0.0063). The SMR for malignant tumours was reduced in 
the GHRT-group (0.29; 0.08-0.73; P = 0.004) but not in untreated patients.
