impairment [OR 2.28 (95% CI: 1.35-3.82, p=0.002)] and of having increased 
adherence to antiretroviral therapy [OR 3.11 (95% CI: 1.67-5.79, p<0.001)].
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of neurocognitive impairment remained high in human 
immunodeficiency virus-infected patients despite antiretroviral therapy. In the 
present study, the prevalence of this type of impairment was significantly 
higher in patients aged ≥50 years, most likely due to aging, human 
immunodeficiency virus infection, and a possible synergistic effect between 
these factors. Despite this higher prevalence, older patients exhibited higher 
rates of adherence to antiretroviral therapy and of undetectable human 
immunodeficiency virus viral load.

Copyright © 2016 Sociedade Brasileira de Infectologia. Published by Elsevier 
Editora Ltda. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjid.2016.09.006
PMCID: PMC9427649
PMID: 27789283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Am J Mens Health. 2017 May;11(3):674-677. doi: 10.1177/1557988316675794.
Epub  2016 Oct 27.

Eclipsed by the Prostate: Expanding Testicular Cancer Scholarship Through Years 
of Potential Life Lost and Economic Productivity.

Rovito MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)1 University of Central Florida, Orlando, FL, USA.

Men's health has been generalized as prostate cancer (PCa) with a supporting 
cast of other health issues, such as testicular cancer (TCa). As a result, 
research and scholarship in these supporting topical areas may not receive 
appropriate attention.This may possibly lead to disease burden indicators 
failing to comprehensively assess overall affect from a specific outcome within 
the population. The following commentary provides an example of years of 
potential life lost (YPLL) and economic productivity as it relates to TCa to 
encourage diversity in male health research and scholarship topical areas. 
Overall incidence and mortality rates overwhelmingly support a disparate burden 
from PCa as compared to other male-specific outcomes, specifically, TCa. When 
factoring in YPLL and lost economic activity as a result of early death, that 
disparity essentially dissipates. This discussion will provide an alternative 
disposition on how males are affected by PCa and TCa. Although PCa has much 
larger mortality and incidence rates compared to TCa, the amount of life a man 
potentially lo ses (nearly quadrupled) if he would die of TCa as compared to PCa 
assists in balancing out the disparate aforementioned burden. Suggestions are 
offered to encourage scholarship attention equity as well as implications for 
future research in the field.

DOI: 10.1177/1557988316675794
PMCID: PMC5675244
PMID: 27789809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


955. J Surg Oncol. 2017 Feb;115(2):173-180. doi: 10.1002/jso.24478. Epub 2016 Oct
28.

The impact of resection method and patient factors on quality of life among 
stage IA non-small cell lung cancer surgical patients.

Schwartz RM(1), Yip R(2), Flores RM(3), Olkin I(4), Taioli E(5), Henschke C(2); 
I-ELCAP Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Medicine, Epidemiology and Prevention (OMEP), 
Hofstra Northwell School of Medicine, Great Neck, New York.
(2)Department of Radiology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
New York.
(3)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New 
York, New York.
(4)Department of Statistics, Stanford University, Stanford, California.
(5)Population Health Science and Policy Department and Institute for 
Translational Epidemiology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
New York.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Given the increased number of treatment options for 
stage IA lung cancer patients, there is a growing body of literature that 
focuses on comparing each option's relative impact on quality of life (QoL). The 
current study seeks to further understand the differences in these patients' QoL 
according to surgical approach.
METHODS: Screening-diagnosed first primary pathologic stage IA non-small-cell 
lung cancer surgical patients from the I-ELCAP cohort who answered a baseline 
and 1-year follow-up QoL questionnaire (SF-12) were included in the analysis. 
Thoracotomy patients (N = 85) were compared with VATS patients (N = 15) using 
paired t-tests and analysis of variance tests.
RESULTS: Multivariate analyses indicated no differences in QoL change between 
the two groups from pre- to post-surgery. Physical and emotional role 
functioning significantly improved among VATS patients and worsened among 
thoracotomy patients. Among thoracotomy patients, a significant decrease in 
post-surgical physical QoL was observed only in those who underwent lobectomy 
(-3.3; 95% CI: -5.1,-1.5), not limited resection.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the sample size is small, preliminary findings underscore 
that changes in overall QoL are similar in VATS and thoracotomy stage IA lung 
cancer patients. Extension of the resection may be a more relevant factor on QoL 
post-surgery. J. Surg. Oncol. 2017;115:173-180. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.24478
PMCID: PMC5996390
PMID: 27790715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURES Dr. Henschke reports grants from 
FAMRI outside the submitted work and Dr. Henschke is a named inventor on a 
number of patents and patent applications relating to the evaluation of 
pulmonary nodules on CT scans of the chest which are owned by Cornell Research 
Foundation (CRF). Since April 2009, Dr. Henschke does not accept any financial 
benefit from these patents including royalties and any other proceeds related to 
the patents or patent applications owned by CRF. In addition, Dr. Henschke is 
the President of the Early Diagnosis and Treatment Research Foundation; she 
receives no compensation for this service. Dr. Taioli is the President of the 
Science and Policy Institute; she receives no compensation for this service. 
Remaining co-authors have no conflicts of interest to disclose.


956. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2016 Oct 26;13(11):1045. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph13111045.

DALY-Based Health Risk Assessment of Construction Noise in Beijing, China.

Xiao J(1), Li X(2), Zhang Z(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Civil Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China. 
xiaoj13@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn.
(2)School of Civil Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China. 
eastdawn@tsinghua.edu.cn.
(3)School of Civil Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China. 
zhzhg@tsinghua.edu.cn.

Noise produced by construction activities has become the second most serious 
acoustic polluting element in China. To provide industry practitioners with a 
better understanding of the health risks of construction noise and to aid in 
creating environmentally friendly construction plans during early construction 
stages, we developed a quantitative model to assess the health impairment risks 
(HIA) associated with construction noise for individuals living adjacent to 
construction sites. This model classifies noise-induced health impairments into 
four categories: cardiovascular disease, cognitive impairment, sleep 
disturbance, and annoyance, and uses disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) as 
an indicator of damage. Furthermore, the value of a statistical life (VSL) is 
used to transform DALYs into a monetary value based on the affected demographic 
characteristics, thereby offering policy makers a reliable theoretical 
foundation for establishing reasonable standards to compensate residents 
suffering from construction noise. A practical earthwork project in Beijing is 
used as a case study to demonstrate the applicability of the proposed model. The 
results indicate that construction noise could bring significant health risks to 
the neighboring resident community, with an estimated 34.51 DALYs of health 
damage and 20.47 million yuan in social costs. In particular, people aged 45-54 
are most vulnerable to construction noise, with the greatest health risks being 
caused by sleep disturbance.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph13111045
PMCID: PMC5129255
PMID: 27792207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


957. Br J Nurs. 2016 Oct 27;25(19):1054-1057. doi: 10.12968/bjon.2016.25.19.1054.

Men's health: an overlooked inequality.

Baker P(1).

Author information:
(1)Director, Global Action on Men's Health, London, UK.

Men's health outcomes are problematic globally, regionally and nationally. Male 
life expectancy was 3.6 years shorter than female life expectancy in the UK in 
2015. Men take more risks with their health and are less likely than women to be 
aware of disease symptoms. They use primary care services less frequently than 
women, with likely impacts on health outcomes, especially for mental health, 
although there is evidence that for some conditions men may seek help just as 
quickly as women. Men's health initiatives have increased and there is growing 
evidence that 'gender-sensitive' interventions aimed at men can be effective. 
However, a strategic response, locally or nationally, to men's health problems 
in the UK has been absent. A number of actions, including by nurses, could make 
a difference. A national men's health policy, extended open hours in primary 
care, more outreach work and professional training, are among the measures 
suggested.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.2016.25.19.1054
PMID: 27792439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Cancer Epidemiol. 2016 Dec;45:112-118. doi: 10.1016/j.canep.2016.10.013.
Epub  2016 Oct 25.

Racial/ethnicity disparities in invasive breast cancer among younger and older 
women: An analysis using multiple measures of population health.

Hung MC(1), Ekwueme DU(2), Rim SH(1), White A(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, US Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia.
(2)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, US Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia. Electronic address: donatus.ekwueme@cdc.hhs.gov.

INTRODUCTION: Few studies have examined age and racial/ethnic disparities in 
invasive breast cancer among younger (age 15-44 years) vs. older (age 45-64 
years) women. This study estimates disparities in breast cancer among younger 
compared with older women by race/ethnicity using five measures of population 
health: life expectancy (LE), expected years of life lost (EYLL), cumulative 
incidence rate (CIR), and incidence and mortality rate ratios (IRR and MRR).
METHODS: Using Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results data, LE and EYLL 
were estimated from a cohort of 15-44 and 45-64 years, non-Hispanic black (NHB), 
non-Hispanic white (NHW), and Hispanic women diagnosed with breast cancer, 
2000-2013. Survival function was obtained from the study years and then 
extrapolated to lifetime using the Monte Carlo method. The CIR, IRR and MRR were 
calculated using 2009-2013 breast cancer incidence and mortality rates from the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Program of Cancer 
Registries.
RESULTS: The estimated LE ranged from 32.12 to 7.42 years for localized to 
distant stages among younger NHB women compared to 33.05 to 9.95 years for 
younger NHW women. The estimated EYLL was 12.78 years for younger women, and 
4.99 for older women. By race/ethnicity, it was 15.53 years for NHB, 14.23 years 
for Hispanic and 11.87 years for NHW (P<0.00025). The CIR for age-group 15-44 
years (CIR15-44) indicated a 1 in 86 probability for NHB compared to a 1 in 87 
probability for NHW being diagnosed with breast cancer by age 45. The estimated 
age-adjusted incidence rate for NHB-to-NHW women was IRR=1.10 (95%, 
CI=1.08-1.11) and the corresponding mortality rate was MRR=2.02 (95%, 
CI=1.94-2.11).
CONCLUSIONS: The breast cancer disparities between younger NHB compared to NHW 
women highlight the need for expanded efforts to address these disparities 
through primary prevention and to improve access to quality healthcare to 
minority women with breast cancer.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canep.2016.10.013
PMCID: PMC5861713
PMID: 27792934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement None.


959. BMC Res Notes. 2016 Oct 28;9(1):482. doi: 10.1186/s13104-016-2281-2.

Life expectancy and healthy life expectancy of Japan: the fastest graying 
society in the world.

Tokudome S(1), Hashimoto S(2), Igata A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutritional Epidemiology, National Institute of Health and 
Nutrition, 1-23-1, Toyama, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 162-8636, Japan. 
tokudome2013@gmail.com.
(2)Fujita Health University School of Medicine, Toyoake, Japan.
(3)Nagoya University of Arts and Sciences, Nisshin, Japan.

BACKGROUND: We appraised time trends of Japanese life expectancy (LE) and 
healthy life expectancy (HALE) by gender, LE-HALE and (LE-HALE)/LE figures, 
along with the women-men's differences.
METHODS: Using the Japanese LE and HALE values from 1990 through 2013 by gender 
in the article by the GBD 2013 DALYs and HALE Collaborators, we examined trends 
of LE and HALE, and their 5- or 3-year changes. We also probed LE-HALE and 
(LE-HALE)/LE values, and the women-men's differences.
RESULTS: LE consistently elongated as reported 76.0, 76.5, 77.6, 78.7, 79.3 and 
80.1 years for men from 1990 to 2013; and 82.0, 82.8, 84.3, 85.5, 86.1 and 
86.4 years for women, respectively. Both time trends demonstrated a significant 
linear increase (p for trend < 0.001). LE changes were 0.4, 1.1, 1.1, 0.7 and 
0.7 years for men, and 0.9, 1.5, 1.2, 0.6 and 0.3 years for women. The trends 
were statistically significant (p < 0.001), except for 2010-2013 partly due to 
3-year interval. HALE also steadily lengthened as seen 68.1, 68.4, 69.1, 69.9, 
70.8 and 71.1 years for men from 1990 through 2013; and 72.2, 72.9, 74.0, 74.8, 
75.4 and 75.6 years for women. Both time trends showed almost a linear increase 
(p < 0.05). HALE changes were 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, 0.9 and 0.3 years for men, and 0.7, 
1.0, 0.8, 0.6 and 0.2 years for women, without statistical significant trends. 
LE-HALE values were 8.0, 8.0, 8.5, 8.8, 8.6 and 8.9 years for men; and 9.7, 9.9, 
10.4, 10.7, 10.7 and 10.8 years for women. (LE-HALE)/LE figures were 10.5, 10.5, 
10.9, 11.1, 10.8 and 11.2% for men, and 11.9, 12.0, 12.3, 12.5, 12.4 and 12.5% 
for women. LE women-men's differences were 5.9, 6.4, 6.8, 6.8, 6.8 and 
6.3 years, and the HALE figures were 4.2, 4.5, 4.9, 4.9, 4.6 and 4.5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: LE and HALE consistently linearly elongated for both sexes over the 
study period. Not only LE-HALE but also (LE-HALE)/LE values were still growing 
for both sexes. Public health measures, nursing-care/services as well as social 
security schemes are called for to further elevate longevities, HALE in 
particular, and enhance quality of life and well-being.

DOI: 10.1186/s13104-016-2281-2
PMCID: PMC5084424
PMID: 27793196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 2016 Oct;64(5):367-371. doi: 
10.1016/j.respe.2016.05.005. Epub 2016 Oct 25.

Challenges in the estimation of Net SURvival: The CENSUR working survival group.

Giorgi R(1); CENSUR working survival group.

Author information:
(1)Aix Marseille Univ, INSERM, IRD, SESSTIM, Sciences Economiques & Sociales de 
la Santé & Traitement de l'Information Médicale, Marseille, France; APHM, 
Hôpital de la Timone, Service Biostatistique et Technologies de l'Information et 
de la Communication, Marseille, France. Electronic address: 
roch.giorgi@univ-amu.fr.

BACKGROUND: Net survival, the survival probability that would be observed, in a 
hypothetical world, where the cancer of interest would be the only possible 
cause of death, is a key indicator in population-based cancer studies. 
Accounting for mortality due to other causes, it allows cross-country 
comparisons or trends analysis and provides a useful indicator for public health 
decision-making. The objective of this study was to show how the creation and 
formalization of a network comprising established research teams, which already 
had substantial and complementary experience in both cancer survival analysis 
and methodological development, make it possible to meet challenges and thus 
provide more adequate tools, to improve the quality and the comparability of 
cancer survival data, and to promote methodological transfers in areas of 
emerging interest.
METHOD: The Challenges in the Estimation of Net SURvival (CENSUR) working 
survival group is composed of international researchers highly skilled in 
biostatistics, methodology, and epidemiology, from different research 
organizations in France, the United Kingdom, Italy, Slovenia, and Canada, and 
involved in French (FRANCIM) and European (EUROCARE) cancer registry networks.
RESULTS: The expected advantages are an interdisciplinary, international, 
synergistic network capable of addressing problems in public health, for 
decision-makers at different levels; tools for those in charge of net survival 
analyses; a common methodology that makes unbiased cross-national comparisons of 
cancer survival feasible; transfer of methods for net survival estimations to 
other specific applications (clinical research, occupational epidemiology); and 
dissemination of results during an international training course.
CONCLUSION: The formalization of the international CENSUR working survival group 
was motivated by a need felt by scientists conducting population-based cancer 
research to discuss, develop, and monitor implementation of a common methodology 
to analyze net survival in order to provide useful information for cancer 
control and cancer policy. A "team science" approach is necessary to address new 
challenges concerning the estimation of net survival.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.respe.2016.05.005
PMID: 27793412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. BMJ Case Rep. 2016 Oct 28;2016:bcr2016215788. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2016-215788.

Metastatic lung cancer presenting as gastric outlet obstruction: diagnosis and 
management with laparoscopic gastric bypass: a novel technique.

Gilbert RW(1), Bird BR(2), O'Boyle CJ(3).

Author information:
(1)University College Cork College of Medicine and Health, Cork, Ireland.
(2)Department of Haematology and Oncology, Bon Secours Hospital, Cork, Ireland.
(3)Department of Bariatric Surgery, Bon Secours Hospital Cork Ireland, Cork, 
Ireland.

Metastatic tumours of the duodenum are relatively rare. Here we present a case 
of a 64-year-old Caucasian male who presented with a 3-week history of 
postprandial vomiting, weight-loss and epigastric discomfort. Imaging and biopsy 
revealed that the patient had a primary lung tumour in his right upper lung lobe 
as well as a duodenal metastasis leading to gastric outlet obstruction (GOO). 
The patient was stabilised and subsequently underwent a laparoscopic gastric 
bypass to palliate the gastric outlet obstruction. Appropriate management of 
metastatic GOO involves accurate diagnosis and treatment with either enteral 
stenting or laparoscopic gastric bypass. It is suggested that the decision 
whether to stent or surgically bypass the obstruction can be based on the 
patient's life expectancy and performance status. Regardless of the approach, 
palliating metastatic GOO can improve the quality of life of carefully chosen 
symptomatic patients. We describe a technique of laparoscopic palliative gastric 
bypass which has not been reported previously in the literature.

2016 BMJ Publishing Group Ltd.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2016-215788
PMCID: PMC5093847
PMID: 27793861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


962. Blood. 2017 Jan 12;129(2):199-208. doi: 10.1182/blood-2016-09-742049. Epub
2016  Oct 28.

CML cells actively evade host immune surveillance through cytokine-mediated 
downregulation of MHC-II expression.

Tarafdar A(1), Hopcroft LE(1), Gallipoli P(1)(2), Pellicano F(1), Cassels J(1), 
Hair A(1), Korfi K(1), Jørgensen HG(1), Vetrie D(1), Holyoake TL(1), Michie 
AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cancer Sciences, College of Medicine, Veterinary and Life 
Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom; and.
(2)Department of Haematology, Cambridge Institute for Medical Research and 
Wellcome Trust-MRC Cambridge Stem Cell Institute, University of Cambridge, 
United Kingdom.

Comment in
    Blood. 2017 Jan 12;129(2):141-142.

Targeting the fusion oncoprotein BCR-ABL with tyrosine kinase inhibitors has 
significantly affected chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) treatment, transforming 
the life expectancy of patients; however the risk for relapse remains, due to 
persistence of leukemic stem cells (LSCs). Therefore it is imperative to explore 
the mechanisms that result in LSC survival and develop new therapeutic 
approaches. We now show that major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-II and its 
master regulator class II transactivator (CIITA) are downregulated in CML 
compared with non-CML stem/progenitor cells in a BCR-ABL kinase-independent 
manner. Interferon γ (IFN-γ) stimulation resulted in an upregulation of CIITA 
and MHC-II in CML stem/progenitor cells; however, the extent of IFN-γ-induced 
MHC-II upregulation was significantly lower than when compared with non-CML 
CD34+ cells. Interestingly, the expression levels of CIITA and MHC-II 
significantly increased when CML stem/progenitor cells were treated with the 
JAK1/2 inhibitor ruxolitinib (RUX). Moreover, mixed lymphocyte reactions 
revealed that exposure of CD34+ CML cells to IFN-γ or RUX significantly enhanced 
proliferation of the responder CD4+CD69+ T cells. Taken together, these data 
suggest that cytokine-driven JAK-mediated signals, provided by CML cells and/or 
the microenvironment, antagonize MHC-II expression, highlighting the potential 
for developing novel immunomodulatory-based therapies to enable host-mediated 
immunity to assist in the detection and eradication of CML stem/progenitor 
cells.

© 2017 by The American Society of Hematology.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2016-09-742049
PMCID: PMC5305055
PMID: 27793879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Lung Cancer. 2016 Nov;101:76-81. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2016.09.010. Epub
2016  Sep 14.

Outcome in patients with small cell lung cancer re-irradiated for brain 
metastases after prior prophylactic cranial irradiation.

Bernhardt D(1), Bozorgmehr F(2), Adeberg S(3), Opfermann N(4), von Eiff D(2), 
Rieber J(4), Kappes J(5), Foerster R(4), König L(4), Thomas M(2), Debus J(3), 
Steins M(2), Rieken S(4).

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Heidelberg, Department of Radiation Oncology, INF 400, 
69120 Heidelberg, Germany; Heidelberg Institute of Radiation Oncology (HIRO), 
Germany; Heidelberg Ion-Beam Therapy Center (HIT), Im Neuenheimer Feld 450, 
69120 Heidelberg, Germany. Electronic address: 
denise.bernhardt@med.uni-heidelberg.de.
(2)Department of Thoracic Oncology, Thoraxklinik, Heidelberg University, 
Heidelberg, Germany Translational Lung Research Centre Heidelberg (TLRC-H), 
Member of the German Centre for Lung Research (DZL), Heidelberg, Germany.
(3)University Hospital Heidelberg, Department of Radiation Oncology, INF 400, 
69120 Heidelberg, Germany; Heidelberg Institute of Radiation Oncology (HIRO), 
Germany; Clinical Cooperation Unit Radiation Oncology, German Cancer Research 
Center (DKFZ), Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany; Heidelberg 
Ion-Beam Therapy Center (HIT), Im Neuenheimer Feld 450, 69120 Heidelberg, 
Germany.
(4)University Hospital Heidelberg, Department of Radiation Oncology, INF 400, 
69120 Heidelberg, Germany; Heidelberg Institute of Radiation Oncology (HIRO), 
Germany.
(5)Department of Thoracic Oncology, Thoraxklinik, Heidelberg University, 
Heidelberg, Germany Translational Lung Research Centre Heidelberg (TLRC-H), 
Member of the German Centre for Lung Research (DZL), Heidelberg, Germany; 
Department of Pneumology, Thoraxklinik, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, 
Germany.

OBJECTIVES: Patients with brain metastases from small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) 
who underwent prior prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI) are often treated 
with a second course of whole brain radiation therapy (Re-WBRT) or stereotactic 
radiosurgery (SRS) for purposes of palliation in symptomatic patients, hope for 
increased life expectancy or even as an alternative to untolerated steroids. Up 
to date there is only limited data available regarding the effect of this 
treatment. This study examines outcomes in patients in a single institution who 
underwent cerebral re-irradiation after prior PCI.
METHODS: We examined the medical records of 76 patients with brain metastases 
who had initially received PCI between 2008 and 2015 and were subsequently 
irradiated with a second course of cerebral radiotherapy. Patients underwent 
re-irradiation using either Re-WBRT (88%) or SRS (17%). The outcomes, including 
symptom palliation, radiation toxicity, and overall survival (OS) following 
re-irradiation were analyzed. Survival and correlations were calculated using 
log-rank, univariate, and multivariate Cox proportional hazards-ratio analyses. 
Treatment-related toxicity was classified according to CTCAE v4.0.
RESULTS: Median OS of all patients was 3 months (range 0-12 months). Median OS 
after Re-WBRT was 3 months (range 0-12 months). Median OS after SRS was 5 months 
(range 0-12 months). Karnofsky performance status scale (KPS ≥50%) was 
significantly associated with improved OS in both univariate (HR 2772; p=0,009) 
and multivariate analyses (HR 2613; p=0,024) for patients receiving Re-WBRT. No 
unexpected toxicity was observed and the observed toxicity remained consistently 
low. Symptom palliation was achieved in 40% of symptomatic patients.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, cerebral re-irradiation after prior PCI is 
beneficial for symptom palliation and is associated with minimal side effects in 
patients with SCLC. Our survival data suggests that it is primarily useful in 
patients with adequate performance status.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2016.09.010
PMID: 27794411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Lung Cancer. 2016 Nov;101:98-103. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2016.09.013. Epub
2016  Sep 28.

Biennial lung cancer screening in Canada with smoking cessation-outcomes and 
cost-effectiveness.

Goffin JR(1), Flanagan WM(2), Miller AB(3), Fitzgerald NR(4), Memon S(5), 
Wolfson MC(6), Evans WK(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, McMaster University, 699 Concession St., Hamilton, 
ON, L8V 5C2, Canada. Electronic address: goffin@mcmaster.ca.
(2)Statistics Canada, Ottawa, ON, K1A 0T6, Canada. Electronic address: 
Bill.Flanagan@canada.ca.
(3)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, 155 College 
Street, Toronto, ON, M5T 3M7, Canada. Electronic address: 
ab.miller@sympatico.ca.
(4)Canadian Partnership Against Cancer, 1 University Ave., Suite 300, Toronto, 
ON M5J 2P1, Canada. Electronic address: 
Natalie.Fitzgerald@partnershipagainstcancer.ca.
(5)Canadian Partnership Against Cancer, 1 University Ave., Suite 300, Toronto, 
ON M5J 2P1, Canada. Electronic address: saima.memon@partnershipagainstcancer.ca.
(6)Department of Epidemiology and Community Medicine, University of Ottawa, 600 
Peter Morand Crescent, Room 301 K, Ottawa, ON, K1G 5Z3, Canada. Electronic 
address: michael.wolfson@uottawa.ca.
(7)Department of Oncology, McMaster University, 699 Concession St., Hamilton, 
ON, L8V 5C2, Canada. Electronic address: Bill.Evans@cancercare.on.ca.

BACKGROUND: Guidelines recommend low-dose CT (LDCT) screening to detect lung 
cancer among eligible at-risk individuals. We used the OncoSim model (formerly 
Cancer Risk Management Model) to compare outcomes and costs between annual and 
biennial LDCT screening.
METHODS: OncoSim incorporates vital statistics, cancer registry data, health 
survey and utility data, cost, and other data, and simulates individual lives, 
aggregating outcomes over millions of individuals. Using OncoSim and National 
Lung Screening Trial eligibility criteria (age 55-74, minimum 30 pack-year 
smoking history, smoking cessation less than 15 years from time of first screen) 
and data, we have modeled screening parameters, cancer stage distribution, and 
mortality shifts for screen diagnosed cancer. Costs (in 2008 Canadian dollars) 
and quality of life years gained are discounted at 3% annually.
RESULTS: Compared with annual LDCT screening, biennial screening used fewer 
resources, gained fewer life-years (61,000 vs. 77,000), but resulted in very 
similar quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) (24,000 vs. 23,000) over 20 years. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of annual compared with biennial 
screening was $54,000-$4.8 million/QALY gained. Average incremental CT scan use 
in biennial screening was 52% of that in annual screening. A smoking cessation 
intervention decreased the average cost-effectiveness ratio in most scenarios by 
half.
CONCLUSIONS: Over 20 years, biennial LDCT screening for lung cancer appears to 
provide similar benefit in terms of QALYs gained to annual screening and is more 
cost-effective. Further study of biennial screening should be undertaken in 
population screening programs. A smoking cessation program should be integrated 
into either screening strategy.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2016.09.013
PMID: 27794416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. J Bacteriol. 2016 Dec 13;199(1):e00465-16. doi: 10.1128/JB.00465-16. Print
2017  Jan 1.

Cell-Biological Studies of Osmotic Shock Response in Streptomyces spp.

Fuchino K(1), Flärdh K(2), Dyson P(3), Ausmees N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Lund University, Lund, Sweden 
katsuya.fuchino@biol.lu.se.
(2)Department of Biology, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(3)Swansea University Medical School, Swansea, United Kingdom.

Most bacteria are likely to face osmotic challenges, but there is yet much to 
learn about how such environmental changes affect the architecture of bacterial 
cells. Here, we report a cell-biological study in model organisms of the genus 
Streptomyces, which are actinobacteria that grow in a highly polarized fashion 
to form branching hyphae. The characteristic apical growth of Streptomyces 
hyphae is orchestrated by protein assemblies, called polarisomes, which contain 
coiled-coil proteins DivIVA and Scy, and recruit cell wall synthesis complexes 
and the stress-bearing cytoskeleton of FilP to the tip regions of the hyphae. We 
monitored cell growth and cell-architectural changes by time-lapse microscopy in 
osmotic upshift experiments. Hyperosmotic shock caused arrest of growth, loss of 
turgor, and hypercondensation of chromosomes. The recovery period was 
protracted, presumably due to the dehydrated state of the cytoplasm, before 
hyphae could restore their turgor and start to grow again. In most hyphae, this 
regrowth did not take place at the original hyphal tips. Instead, cell polarity 
was reprogrammed, and polarisomes were redistributed to new sites, leading to 
the emergence of multiple lateral branches from which growth occurred. Factors 
known to regulate the branching pattern of Streptomyces hyphae, such as the 
serine/threonine kinase AfsK and Scy, were not involved in reprogramming of cell 
polarity, indicating that different mechanisms may act under different 
environmental conditions to control hyphal branching. Our observations of hyphal 
morphology during the stress response indicate that turgor and sufficient 
hydration of cytoplasm are required for Streptomyces tip growth.
IMPORTANCE: Polar growth is an intricate manner of growth for accomplishing a 
complicated morphology, employed by a wide range of organisms across the 
kingdoms of life. The tip extension of Streptomyces hyphae is one of the most 
pronounced examples of polar growth among bacteria. The expansion of the cell 
wall by tip extension is thought to be facilitated by the turgor pressure, but 
it was unknown how external osmotic change influences Streptomyces tip growth. 
We report here that severe hyperosmotic stress causes cessation of growth, 
followed by reprogramming of cell polarity and rearrangement of growth zones to 
promote lateral hyphal branching. This phenomenon may represent a strategy of 
hyphal organisms to avoid osmotic stress encountered by the growing hyphal tip.

Copyright © 2016 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.00465-16
PMCID: PMC5165099
PMID: 27795320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Circ J. 2016 Nov 25;80(12):2415-2422. doi: 10.1253/circj.CJ-16-0919. Epub
2016  Oct 29.

Traditional Cardiovascular Risk Factors for Incident Atrial Fibrillation.

Kokubo Y(1), Matsumoto C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Cardiology, National Cerebral and Cardiovascular 
Center.

To prevent atrial fibrillation (AF), it is essential to reduce its risk factors 
and extend healthy life expectancy as a result. There are few reviews on the AF 
risk factors. We discuss them and approach the prevention of AF. We briefly 
review traditional risk factors for incident AF, especially focusing on high 
blood pressure, overweight/obesity, dyslipidemia, diabetes, tobacco smoking, and 
excessive drinking. When trying to prevent AF by modifying lifestyle, it is 
important to comprehensively utilize the risk factors for AF to predict the 
10-year as an AF risk score. However, there are only 2 risk scores of AF just 
for the US population. There are few studies of the AF risk factors in 
non-Western populations. A risk score for incident AF in non-Westerners is 
awaited because different race and lifestyles may have different contributions 
as AF risk factors. An AF risk score in accordance with race could be useful for 
identifying persons with a high risk of AF in order to encourage them to consult 
a doctor and encourage lifestyle modifications before the onset of AF. (Circ J 
2016; 80: 2415-2422).

DOI: 10.1253/circj.CJ-16-0919
PMID: 27795488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Acta Naturae. 2016 Jul-Sep;8(3):31-43.

Stem Cells in the Treatment of Insulin-Dependent Diabetes Mellitus.

Borisov MA(1), Petrakova OS(2), Gvazava IG(1), Kalistratova EN(3), Vasiliev 
AV(4).

Author information:
(1)Pirogov Russian National Research Medical University, Ostrovitianov str. 1, 
Moscow, 117997, Russia ; Koltsov Institute of Developmental Biology, Russian 
Academy of Sciences, Vavilova str. 26, Moscow, 119334, Russia.
(2)Pirogov Russian National Research Medical University, Ostrovitianov str. 1, 
Moscow, 117997, Russia ; Lomonosov Moscow State University, Faculty of Biology, 
Leninskie Gory 1, bld. 12, Moscow, 119991 , Russia.
(3)Lomonosov Moscow State University, Faculty of Biology, Leninskie Gory 1, bld. 
12, Moscow, 119991 , Russia.
(4)Lomonosov Moscow State University, Faculty of Biology, Leninskie Gory 1, bld. 
12, Moscow, 119991 , Russia ; Koltsov Institute of Developmental Biology, 
Russian Academy of Sciences, Vavilova str. 26, Moscow, 119334, Russia.

Diabetes affects over 350 million people worldwide, with the figure projected to 
rise to nearly 500 million over the next 20 years, according to the World Health 
Organization. Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (type 1 diabetes) is an 
endocrine disorder caused by an autoimmune reaction that destroys 
insulin-producing β-cells in the pancreas, which leads to insulin deficiency. 
Administration of exogenous insulin remains at the moment the treatment 
mainstay. This approach helps to regulate blood glucose levels and significantly 
increases the life expectancy of patients. However, type 1 diabetes is 
accompanied by long-term complications associated with the systemic nature of 
the disease and metabolic abnormalities having a profound impact on health. Of 
greater impact would be a therapeutic approach which would overcome these 
limitations by better control of blood glucose levels and prevention of acute 
and chronic complications. The current efforts in the field of regenerative 
medicine are aimed at finding such an approach. In this review, we discuss the 
time-honored technique of donor islets of Langerhans transplantation. We also 
focus on the use of pluripotent stem and committed cells and cellular 
reprogramming. The molecular mechanisms of pancreatic differentiation are 
highlighted. Much attention is devoted to the methods of grafts delivery and to 
the materials used during its creation.

PMCID: PMC5081704
PMID: 27795842


968. ANZ J Surg. 2018 Mar;88(3):E103-E107. doi: 10.1111/ans.13690. Epub 2016 Oct
30.

Short- and long-term outcomes of elderly patients undergoing liver resection for 
colorectal liver metastasis.

Gandy RC(1)(2), Stavrakis T(1)(3), Haghighi KS(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Prince of Wales Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(2)Prince of Wales Clinical School, The University of New South Wales, Sydney, 
New South Wales, Australia.
(3)Department of Anaesthesia, Prince of Wales Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(4)Department of Surgery, St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Metastatic colorectal cancer is a disease of advancing age. 
Increased life expectancy has dramatically increased the number of older 
patients being assessed for hepatectomy. The objective of the study is to assess 
the safety and survival of hepatic resection in older patients, with colorectal 
liver metastases (CLM) and compare that with younger patients.
METHODS: All patients undergoing hepatic resection of CLM were included. 
Patients were divided in groups, less than 75 and 75 and over. Prospectively 
collected data on patient demographics and post-operative complications were 
retrospectively analysed. Overall survival was calculated in both groups.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients over the age of 75 underwent hepatic resection for 
CLM. A total of 158 patients under the age of 75 underwent resection. Overall, 
66% of patients received neoadjuvant chemotherapy and 64% underwent major 
resection. Ninety-day mortality was 1 out of 29 and 1 out of 158, respectively 
(P = 0.15). Overall complication rate was low, 4 out of 29 and 26 out of 158 (P 
= 0.45). Median length of stay was similar in the older population, 8.5 versus 8 
days (P = 0.65). Overall 5-year survival was 58% in the over 75 group and 56% in 
the under 75 group (P = 0.31).
CONCLUSION: Hepatic resection for CLM can be achieved safely in patients over 
the age of 75 and with equivalent short- and long-term outcomes.

© 2016 Royal Australasian College of Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ans.13690
PMID: 27796073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Expert Rev Hematol. 2016 Dec;9(12):1165-1175. doi: 
10.1080/17474086.2016.1254544. Epub 2016 Nov 21.

Management of elderly and unfit patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Mauro FR(1), Salaroli A(1), Caputo MD(1), Colafigli G(1), Petrucci L(1), 
Campanelli M(1), Ferretti A(1), Guarini AR(1), Foà R(1).

Author information:
(1)a Hematology, Department of Cellular Biotechnologies and Hematology , 
Policlinico Umberto 1 and Sapienza University , Rome , Italy.

About 75% of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are more than 
65 years at the time of diagnosis. Treatment of the elderly remains complicated 
due to multiple factors, such as comorbidities, decline in functional reserve 
and fitness. Since chronological age by itself cannot properly predict life 
expectancy and treatment tolerance, an accurate assessment of the fitness status 
is of crucial importance for an optimal treatment choice. Areas covered: This 
review will discuss the most relevant aspects concerning the issues experienced 
in the management of elderly/unfit patients with CLL. The most frequently 
observed age-related toxicities, fitness assessments, supportive care measures 
and treatment options for elderly patients and for patients who are deemed unfit 
will be discussed. Literature search methodology included examination of PubMed 
index. Expert commentary: During the last decade, different trials focusing on 
elderly/unfit patients have investigated more tolerable chemoimmunotherapy 
schedules and, more recently, the activity and safety of chemo-free regimens. 
Chlorambucil combined with an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody has shown clinical 
activity with a relatively good profile of toxicity. The recent introduction of 
the B-cell receptor antagonists, ibrutinib and idelalisib, and other targeted 
drugs in development (e.g. venetoclax), is broadening the therapeutic 
armamentarium of elderly CLL patients.

DOI: 10.1080/17474086.2016.1254544
PMID: 27796157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. World J Urol. 2017 Jul;35(7):1031-1036. doi: 10.1007/s00345-016-1963-7. Epub
 2016 Oct 28.

Comorbidity and age cannot explain variation in life expectancy associated with 
treatment of non-metastatic prostate cancer.

Boehm K(1)(2), Dell'Oglio P(3)(4), Tian Z(3)(5), Capitanio U(4), Chun FKH(6), 
Tilki D(7)(6), Haferkamp A(8), Saad F(9), Montorsi F(4), Graefen M(7), 
Karakiewicz PI(3)(9).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, University of Montreal Health 
Center, Montreal, Canada. katharina.boehm@unimedizin-mainz.de.
(2)Department of Urology, University Medical Center, Johannes Gutenberg 
University, Mainz, Germany. katharina.boehm@unimedizin-mainz.de.
(3)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, University of Montreal Health 
Center, Montreal, Canada.
(4)Unit of Urology, Division of Oncology, URI, IRCCS Ospedale San Raffaele, 
Milan, Italy.
(5)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill 
University, Montreal, Canada.
(6)Department of Urology, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, 
Germany.
(7)Martini-Clinic, Prostate Cancer Centre, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(8)Department of Urology, University Medical Center, Johannes Gutenberg 
University, Mainz, Germany.
(9)Department of Urology, University of Montreal Health Center, Montreal, 
Canada.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2017 Oct;198(4):723.

INTRODUCTION: Age and Charlson comorbidity index (CCI) affect life expectancy 
(LE) and other-cause mortality (OCM) in non-metastatic prostate cancer (nmPCa) 
patients. We examined their ability to predict OCM in individuals treated with 
radical prostatectomy (RP), brachytherapy (BT), external beam radiation (EBRT) 
androgen deprivation (ADT) or observation. We postulated that these variables 
are not sufficient to explain OCM and LE patterns according to different 
treatment types.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We relied on the SEER-Medicare database from 1991 to 2009. 
Overall, 283,125 patients with non-metastatic prostate cancer aged ≥66 years 
were treated with RP (15.5%), BT (13.9%), EBRT (21.4%), ADT alone (16.3%) or 
observation (32.8%). Cumulative incidence of OCM and LE was stratified by 
treatment type and adjusted for age and CCI. Competing risks regression was also 
used.
RESULTS: OCM rates vary according to treatment, despite age and CCI adjustment. 
In RP or BT patients, LE exceeds 10 years, regardless of age and CCI. 
Conversely, a 10-year LE is not reached by patients >74 years treated with 
observation or ADT. In OCM competing risks regression, age, CCI and treatment 
type achieved independent predictor status (all p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: In patients with nmPCa, neither age nor CCI can accurately estimate 
OCM or LE in excess of 10 years. Primary treatment assignment is a strong 
determinant of OCM and LE, where RP and BT patients enjoy better OCM and LE 
rates than observation ADT or EBRT patients. In consequence, better clinical 
tools are needed to accurately assess OCM and LE in those settings.

DOI: 10.1007/s00345-016-1963-7
PMID: 27796538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Dig Dis Sci. 2017 Jan;62(1):235-243. doi: 10.1007/s10620-016-4362-4. Epub
2016  Oct 31.

Epidemiological Trends in Colorectal Cancer in China: An Ecological Study.

Zhu J(1), Tan Z(2), Hollis-Hansen K(2), Zhang Y(2)(3), Yu C(1), Li Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310003, China.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Environmental Health, University at Buffalo, 
The State University of New York, Buffalo, NY, 14214, USA.
(3)School of Public Health and Health Management, Chongqing Medical University, 
Chongqing, 400016, China.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310003, China. ymli.zju@live.com.

BACKGROUND: Due to the changes in lifestyle and dietary behaviors, the incidence 
of colorectal cancer (CRC) has been rapidly increasing in China.
AIMS: This study is to present the trends of CRC in China over the past decade.
METHODS: It used a series of nationally representative data, including the 
National Central Cancer Registry of China, the GLOBOCAN project and the Global 
Burden of Disease.
RESULTS: The age-standardized rate of CRC incidence increased from 12.8 in 2003 
to 16.8 per 100,000 in 2011, while the mortality rose from 5.9 to 7.8 per 
100,000. The age group most affected by incident CRC cases were those aged 
60-74 years old, whereas CRC death was most associated with those >74 years. 
Furthermore, the east coast of China presented a higher mortality rate (>15 and 
10-14.9 per 100,000 in men and women) than central and west China (5-14.9 and 
5-9.9 per 100,000). Compared with other countries worldwide, China indicated 
lower rates of incidence (14.2 per 100,000), mortality (7.4 per 100,000), and 
5-year prevalence (52.7 per 100,000) than most developed countries. However, 
China had a higher case-fatality ratio (14.0 %) and mortality/incidence ratio 
(52.1 %). Lastly, disability-adjusted life years attributed to CRC in China was 
224.2 per 100,000.
CONCLUSIONS: It presents a steady increase in CRC in China over the past decade. 
It also reveals the domestic diversity of age, gender, and geography and finds 
the differences between China and developed countries, which may yield insights 
for national programs and policies.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-016-4362-4
PMID: 27796769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2016;17(9):4251-4257.

Incidence and Mortality of Testicular Cancer and Relationships with Development 
in Asia.

Sadeghi M(1), Ghoncheh M, Mohammadian-Hafshejani A, Gandomani HS, Rafiemanesh H, 
Salehiniya H.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health, Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Tabriz 
University of Medical Science, Tabriz, Iran E-mail : alesaleh70@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Testicular cancer is one of the most common cancers among young men 
between ages 20-34 in countries with high or very high levels of the Human 
Development Index (HDI). This study investigated the incidence and mortality of 
prostate cancer and the relationship with the HDI and its dimensions in Asia in 
2012.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was conducted based on data from the world data 
of cancer and the World Bank (including the HDI and its components). 
Standardized incidence and mortality rates of testicular cancer were calculated 
for Asian countries. Correlations between incidence and/ormortality rates, and 
the HDI and its components were assessed with the use of the correlation test, 
using SPSS software.
RESULTS: There was a total of 14902 incidences and 5832 death were recorded in 
Asian countries in 2012. Among the Asian countries, the five countries with the 
highest standardized incidence rates of testicular cancer were Israel, Georgia, 
Turkey, Lebanon and Kazakhstan and the five countries with the highest 
standardized mortality rates were Turkey, Georgia, Jordan, Cambodia and the 
Syrian Arab Republic. A positive correlation of 0.382 was observed between the 
standardized incidence rates of testicular cancer and the HDI (p=0.009). Also a 
negative correlation of 0.298 between the standardized mortality rate of 
testicular cancer and the Human Development Index was noted although this 
relation was statistically non-significant (p=0.052).
CONCLUSIONS: There is a positive correlation between HDI and the standardized 
incidence rate of testicular cancer and negative correlation with standardized 
mortality rate.

PMID: 27797227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Acad Emerg Med. 2017 Feb;24(2):168-176. doi: 10.1111/acem.13122. Epub 2017
Jan  30.

Screening and Treatment for Subclinical Hypertensive Heart Disease in Emergency 
Department Patients With Uncontrolled Blood Pressure: A Cost-effectiveness 
Analysis.

Twiner MJ(1), Marinica AL(2), Kuper K(3), Goodman A(4), Mahn JJ(5), Burla MJ(1), 
Brody AM(1), Carroll JA(5), Josiah Willock R(6), Flack JM(7)(8), Nasser SA(9), 
Levy PD(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI.
(2)Department Surgery, Sinai Grace Hospital, Detroit, MI.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, St. John Hospital, Detroit, MI.
(4)Department of Economics, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI.
(5)School of Medicine, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI.
(6)Community Health & Preventive Medicine, Morehouse School of Medicine, 
Atlanta, GA.
(7)Division of Transitional Research and Clinical Epidemiology and Department of 
Medicine, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI.
(8)Cardiovascular Research Institute, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI.
(9)College of Education, Health, and Human Services, University of 
Michigan-Dearborn, Dearborn, MI.

Erratum in
    Acad Emerg Med. 2020 Apr;27(4):351.

OBJECTIVES: Poorly controlled hypertension (HTN) is extremely prevalent and, if 
left unchecked, subclinical hypertensive heart disease (SHHD) may ensue leading 
to conditions such as heart failure. To address this, we designed a 
multidisciplinary program to detect and treat SHHD in a high-risk, predominantly 
African American community. The primary objective of this study was to determine 
the cost-effectiveness of our program.
METHODS: Study costs associated with identifying and treating patients with SHHD 
were calculated and a sensitivity analysis was performed comparing the effect of 
four parameters on cost estimates. These included prevalence of disease, 
effectiveness of treatment (regression of SHHD, reversal of left ventricular 
hypertrophy [LVH], or blood pressure [BP] control as separate measures), 
echocardiogram costs, and participant time/travel costs. The parent study for 
this analysis was a single-center, randomized controlled trial comparing cardiac 
effects of standard and intense (<120/80 mm Hg) BP goals at 1 year in patients 
with uncontrolled HTN and SHHD. A total of 149 patients (94% African American) 
were enrolled, 133 (89%) had SHHD, 123 (93%) of whom were randomized, with 88 
(72%) completing the study. Patients were clinically evaluated and medically 
managed over the course of 1 year with repeated echocardiograms. Costs of these 
interventions were analyzed and, following standard practices, a cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) less than $50,000 was defined as 
cost-effective.
RESULTS: Total costs estimates for the program ranged from $117,044 to $119,319. 
Cost per QALY was dependent on SHHD prevalence and the measure of effectiveness 
but not input costs. Cost-effectiveness (cost per QALY less than $50,000) was 
achieved when SHHD prevalence exceeded 11.1% for regression of SHHD, 4.7% for 
reversal of LVH, and 2.9% for achievement of BP control.
CONCLUSIONS: In this cohort of predominantly African American patients with 
uncontrolled HTN, SHHD prevalence was high and screening with treatment was 
cost-effective across a range of assumptions. These data suggest that 
multidisciplinary programs such as this can be a cost-effective mechanism to 
mitigate the cardiovascular consequences of HTN in emergency department patients 
with uncontrolled BP.

© 2016 by the Society for Academic Emergency Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/acem.13122
PMCID: PMC5438204
PMID: 27797437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Arch Environ Occup Health. 2017 Nov 2;72(6):336-342. doi: 
10.1080/19338244.2016.1254081. Epub 2016 Oct 31.

Migration, health, and socioenvironmental safety net among children of Dhaka, 
Bangladesh.

Molla NA(1)(2), Ali G(3)(4), Mollah KA(5), Wongwit W(1), Shipin O(6), Ramasoota 
P(1), Nur HP(2).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Social and Environmental Medicine , Faculty of Tropical 
Medicine, Mahidol University , Bangkok , Thailand.
(2)b Bangladesh Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (BCSIR) , Dhaka , 
Bangladesh.
(3)c Institute of Agricultural and Resource Economics, Faculty of Social 
Sciences, University of Agriculture , Faisalabad , Pakistan.
(4)d Faculty of Environment and Resource Studies, Mahidol University , Nakhon 
Pathom , Thailand.
(5)e EnviroCare, Prosperity Pathway , Toronto , Ontario , Canada.
(6)f WHO collaborating Centre, Environmental Engineering and Management, Asian 
Institute of Technology , Pathumthani , Thailand.

This study quantifies the diarrhea burden among migrant children under age 5 
(who have migrated due to environmental degradation) in Dhaka. We used a 
multifactor socioepidemiological as well as environmental approach with 
pretested questionnaires and observations. It was found that 52% of the children 
were affected by diarrhea. Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) lost was 
reduced manifold with the increase of mothers' behavioral determinants. Health 
