45 years of age to examine menopause and ageing issues.
METHODS: Consecutive clinic attenders in a large outpatient London HIV clinic 
were invited to participate in the study. Data were available for 170 (68%) 
women. In 57 women above the age of 45 data were available regarding menopause 
detailed insights.
RESULTS: Compared with women aged under 45, women >45 years old were 
significantly less likely to be in a relationship (P=0.01), had higher anxiety 
scores (P=0.002), more likely to be classified as moderate to severe (25.9% vs 
9.1%; χ2=6.1, P=0.01). There were no differences in terms of suicidal ideation, 
which was high for both groups of women (56.6%). Older women had higher 
psychological symptoms on the MSAS scale form and significantly higher PHQ-9 
depression levels. A higher proportion of older women scored above the cut-off 
point for moderate to severe depression (9.2% vs 21.8%; χ2=3.7, P=0.048). Fewer 
older women had no mental health challenges (26.1% vs 42.4%) and more had 
multiple comorbidities (P=0.07).
CONCLUSIONS: The vast majority of women reported experiencing a variety of 
physical and psychological menopause-related symptoms and there was a high 
suicide ideation rate in both groups of women. Over half of the group of 
menopausal women recorded distressing symptoms such as hot flushes, sweating, 
decreased sexual desire, back pain, night sweats, avoiding intimacy, involuntary 
urination and skin changes, yet few sought help. Age-specific, psychosexual and 
menopause services should be routinely available for women with HIV.

PMCID: PMC5075348
PMID: 27781103


931. Can J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2016;2016:5315798. doi: 10.1155/2016/5315798.
Epub  2016 Oct 3.

Real-Life Treatment Paradigms Show Adalimumab Is Cost-Effective for the 
Management of Ulcerative Colitis.

Beilman CL(1), Thanh NX(2), Ung V(1), Ma C(1), Wong K(1), Kroeker KI(1), Lee 
T(1), Wang H(1), Ohinmaa A(2), Jacobs P(2), Halloran BP(1), Fedorak RN(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.
(2)Institute of Health Economics, Edmonton, AB, Canada.

Background. Adalimumab is effective for the maintenance of remission in patients 
with moderate-to-severe ulcerative colitis (UC). Currently, biologic therapies 
are used in cases where patients fail conventional medical therapies. If 
biologic therapies are not available, patients often choose to remain in an 
unwell state rather than undergo colectomy. Objective. The aim of the study was 
to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of adalimumab in patients with UC where 
adalimumab was readily available compared to not available. Methods. A 
previously validated Markov model was used to simulate disease progression of 
patients with UC who are corticosteroid-dependent and/or did not respond to 
thiopurine therapy. Utility scores and transition probabilities between health 
states were determined by using data from randomized controlled trials and 
real-life observational studies. Costs were obtained from the Ontario Case 
Costing Initiative and the Alberta Health Schedule of Medical Benefits. Results. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for readily available adalimumab 
treatment of UC were $40,000 and $59,000 per quality-adjusted life year, 
compared with ongoing medical therapy in an unwell state, at 5-year and 10-year 
treatment time horizons, respectively. Conclusion. Considering real-life patient 
preferences to avoid colectomy, adalimumab is cost-effective according to a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $80,000 for treatment of UC.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/5315798
PMCID: PMC5065999
PMID: 27781203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Curr Med Chem. 2016;23(41):4639-4680. doi:
10.2174/0929867323666161024151233.

Resveratrol and Lifespan in Model Organisms.

Pallauf K(1), Rimbach G, Rupp PM, Chin D, Wolf IM.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Nutrition and Food Science, Christian-Albrechts-University 
Kiel, Hermann-Rodewald-Strasse 6-8, D-24118 Kiel, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Resveratrol may possess life-prolonging and health-benefitting 
properties, some of which may resemble the effect of caloric restriction (CR). 
CR appears to prolong the lifespan of model organisms in some studies and may 
benefit human health. However, for humans, restricting food intake for an 
extended period of time seems impracticable and substances imitating the 
beneficial effects of CR without having to reduce food intake could improve 
health in an aging and overweight population.
METHODS: We have reviewed the literature studying the influence of resveratrol 
on the lifespan of model organisms including yeast, flies, worms, and rodents. 
We summarize the in vivo findings, describe modulations of molecular targets and 
gene expression observed in vivo and in vitro, and discuss how these changes may 
contribute to lifespan extension. Data from clinical studies are summarized to 
provide an insight about the potential of resveratrol supplementation in humans.
RESULTS: Resveratrol supplementation has been shown to prolong lifespan in 
approximately 60% of the studies conducted in model organisms. However, current 
literature is contradictory, indicating that the lifespan effects of resveratrol 
vary strongly depending on the model organism. While worms and killifish seemed 
very responsive to resveratrol, resveratrol failed to affect lifespan in the 
majority of the studies conducted in flies and mice. Furthermore, factors such 
as dose, gender, genetic background and diet composition may contribute to the 
high variance in the observed effects.
CONCLUSION: It remains inconclusive whether resveratrol is indeed a CR mimetic 
and possesses life-prolonging properties. The limited bioavailability of 
resveratrol may further impede its potential effects.

DOI: 10.2174/0929867323666161024151233
PMID: 27781945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2016;160:D544.

[Financial compensation for asbestosis patients].

[Article in Dutch]

Hagmolen Of Ten Have W(1), Rooijackers JM, Burgers JA.

Author information:
(1)Radboudumc, afd. Longziekten, Nijmegen.

Asbestosis in the Netherlands is a rare work-related form of pulmonary fibrosis 
caused by long-term, intensive exposure to asbestos. It can have a great impact 
on patients' quality of life and life expectancy even 20-30 years after initial 
exposure. The Dutch Institute of Asbestos Victims (IAS) mediates between the 
victims and their employers or former employers about payment of compensation. 
Liability procedures against a previous employer are long and stressful. Since 1 
April 2014 it has, therefore, been possible to receive financial aid from the 
state. The IAS and the Netherlands Asbestosis Panel determine who is eligible 
for this. In this article we look in detail at the conditions for, and the 
process of, application for this financial aid. Since the introduction of this 
arrangement, more than 250 asbestosis victims have applied for aid; so far, 65 
applicants have met the required conditions.

PMID: 27781966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2016 Nov;64(11):e214-e216. doi: 10.1111/jgs.14369. Epub
2016  Oct 26.

Revascularization in Individuals Aged 90 and Older with Critical Lower Limb 
Ischemia.

Rodriguez-Padilla J(1), de Haro J(1), Varela C(1), Bleda S(1), Gonzalez-Hidalgo 
C(1), Michel I(1), Acin F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Angiology and Vascular Surgery, Getafe University Hospital, 
Getafe, Madrid, Spain.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.14369
PMID: 27783391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Nature. 2016 Nov 17;539(7629):448-451. doi: 10.1038/nature20137. Epub 2016
Oct  26.

Alternative modes of client binding enable functional plasticity of Hsp70.

Mashaghi A(1), Bezrukavnikov S(1), Minde DP(1), Wentink AS(2)(3), Kityk R(2), 
Zachmann-Brand B(2)(3), Mayer MP(2), Kramer G(2)(3), Bukau B(2)(3), Tans SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)FOM institute AMOLF, Science Park 104, 1098 XG Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Center for Molecular Biology of Heidelberg University (ZMBH), DKFZ-ZMBH 
Alliance, Im Neuenheimer Feld 282, D-69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(3)German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Im Neuenheimer Feld 282, D-69120 
Heidelberg, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2016 Nov 17;539(7629):361-362.

The Hsp70 system is a central hub of chaperone activity in all domains of life. 
Hsp70 performs a plethora of tasks, including folding assistance, protection 
against aggregation, protein trafficking, and enzyme activity regulation, and 
interacts with non-folded chains, as well as near-native, misfolded, and 
aggregated proteins. Hsp70 is thought to achieve its many physiological roles by 
binding peptide segments that extend from these different protein conformers 
within a groove that can be covered by an ATP-driven helical lid. However, it 
has been difficult to test directly how Hsp70 interacts with protein substrates 
in different stages of folding and how it affects their structure. Moreover, 
recent indications of diverse lid conformations in Hsp70-substrate complexes 
raise the possibility of additional interaction mechanisms. Addressing these 
issues is technically challenging, given the conformational dynamics of both 
chaperone and client, the transient nature of their interaction, and the 
involvement of co-chaperones and the ATP hydrolysis cycle. Here, using optical 
tweezers, we show that the bacterial Hsp70 homologue (DnaK) binds and stabilizes 
not only extended peptide segments, but also partially folded and near-native 
protein structures. The Hsp70 lid and groove act synergistically when 
stabilizing folded structures: stabilization is abolished when the lid is 
truncated and less efficient when the groove is mutated. The diversity of 
binding modes has important consequences: Hsp70 can both stabilize and 
destabilize folded structures, in a nucleotide-regulated manner; like Hsp90 and 
GroEL, Hsp70 can affect the late stages of protein folding; and Hsp70 can 
suppress aggregation by protecting partially folded structures as well as 
unfolded protein chains. Overall, these findings in the DnaK system indicate an 
extension of the Hsp70 canonical model that potentially affects a wide range of 
physiological roles of the Hsp70 system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature20137
PMID: 27783598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. JAMA Surg. 2017 Feb 1;152(2):136-141. doi: 10.1001/jamasurg.2016.3640.

Cost-effectiveness of Bariatric Surgery in Adolescents With Obesity.

Klebanoff MJ(1), Chhatwal J(2), Nudel JD(3), Corey KE(4), Kaplan LM(4), Hur 
C(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston2Division of Gastroenterology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston3Now 
at Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut.
(2)Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston2Division of Gastroenterology, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston4Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(3)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts5Now at Department of Surgery, 
Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts.
(4)Division of Gastroenterology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston4Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

Comment in
    JAMA Surg. 2017 Feb 1;152(2):142.
    JAMA Surg. 2017 Aug 1;152(8):802.
    JAMA Surg. 2017 Aug 1;152(8):801-802.

IMPORTANCE: Severe obesity affects 4% to 6% of US youth and is increasing in 
prevalence. Bariatric surgery for the treatment of adolescents with severe 
obesity is becoming more common, but data on cost-effectiveness are limited.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of bariatric surgery for adolescents 
with obesity using recently published results from the Teen-Longitudinal 
Assessment of Bariatric Surgery study.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS: A state-transition model was constructed to 
compare 2 strategies: no surgery and bariatric surgery. In the no surgery 
strategy, patients remained at their initial body mass index (calculated as 
weight in kilograms divided by height in meters squared) over time. In the 
bariatric surgery strategy, patients were subjected to risks of perioperative 
mortality and complications as well as initial morbidity but also experienced 
longer-term quality-of-life improvements associated with weight loss. Cohort 
demographic information-of the 228 patients included, the mean (SD) age was 17 
(1.6) years, the mean (range) body mass index was 53 (34-88), and 171 (75.0%) 
were female-surgery-related outcomes, and base case time horizon (3 years) were 
based on data from the Teen-Longitudinal Assessment of Bariatric Surgery study. 
One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), total costs (in 
US dollars adjusted to 2015-year values using the Consumer Price Index), and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). A willingness-to-pay threshold of 
$100 000 per QALY was used to assess cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: After 3 years, surgery led to a gain of 0.199 QALYs compared with no 
surgery at an incremental cost of $30 747, yielding an unfavorable ICER of 
$154 684 per QALY. When the clinical study results were extrapolated to 4 years, 
the ICER decreased to $114 078 per QALY and became cost-effective by 5 years 
with an ICER of $91 032 per QALY. Outcomes were robust in most 1-way and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Bariatric surgery incurs substantial initial cost and 
morbidity. We found that surgery could be a cost-effective treatment for 
adolescents with severe obesity if assessed over a time horizon of 5 years. Our 
study underscores the need for long-term clinical trials in adolescents with at 
least 5 years of follow-up data that capture financial and quality-of-life end 
points.

DOI: 10.1001/jamasurg.2016.3640
PMID: 27784062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Curr Neuropharmacol. 2017;15(4):562-594. doi:
10.2174/1570159X14666161026151545.

Polyphenols Beyond Barriers: A Glimpse into the Brain.

Figueira I(1), Menezes R(1), Macedo D(1), Costa I(2), Dos Santos CN(3).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Tecnologia Quimica e Biologica Antonio Xavier, Universidade Nova 
de Lisboa, Av. da Republica, 2780-157 Oeiras. Portugal.
(2)iBET, Instituto de Biologia Experimental e Tecnologica, Apartado 12, 2781-901 
Oeiras. Portugal.
(3)Molecular Nutrition and Health Laboratory, IBET/ITQB, Av. da Republica, 
2780-157 Oeiras, Universidade Nova de Lisboa. Portugal.

BACKGROUND: Ageing can be simply defined as the process of becoming older, which 
is genetically determined but also environmentally modulated. With the 
continuous increase of life expectancy, quality of life during ageing has become 
one of the biggest challenges of developed countries. The quest for a healthy 
ageing has led to the extensive study of plant polyphenols with the aim to 
prevent age-associated deterioration and diseases, including neurodegenerative 
diseases. The world of polyphenols has fascinated researchers over the past 
decades, and in vitro, cell-based, animal and human studies have attempted to 
unravel the mechanisms behind dietary polyphenols neuroprotection.
METHODS: In this review, we compiled some of the extensive and ever-growing 
research in the field, highlighting some of the most recent trends in the area.
RESULTS: The main findings regarding polypolyphenols neuroprotective potential 
performed using in vitro, cellular and animal studies, as well as human trials 
are covered in this review. Concepts like bioavailability, polyphenols 
biotransformation, transport of dietary polyphenols across barriers, including 
the blood-brain barrier, are here explored.
CONCLUSION: The diversity and holistic properties of polypolyphenol present them 
as an attractive alternative for the treatment of multifactorial diseases, where 
a multitude of cellular pathways are disrupted. The underlying mechanisms of 
polypolyphenols for nutrition or therapeutic applications must be further 
consolidated, however there is strong evidence of their beneficial impact on 
brain function during ageing. Nevertheless, only the tip of the iceberg of 
nutritional and pharmacological potential of dietary polyphenols is hitherto 
understood and further research needs to be done to fill the gaps in pursuing a 
healthy ageing.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.org.

DOI: 10.2174/1570159X14666161026151545
PMCID: PMC5543676
PMID: 27784225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Curr Pharm Des. 2016;22(45):6870-6880. doi:
10.2174/1381612822666161025154506.

Desensitization for Drug Hypersensitivity to Chemotherapy and Monoclonal 
Antibodies.

Bonamichi-Santos R, Castells M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Immunology and Allergy; Department of Medicine, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United States.

Chemotherapies drugs and monoclonal antibodies are key components of the 
treatment of cancer patients and patients with chronic inflammatory conditions 
to provide increase in life expectancy and quality of life. Their increased use 
has lead to an increase in drugs hypersensitivity reactions (DHR) worldwide. DHR 
to those agents prevented their use and promoted the use of second line 
therapies to protect patients' hypersensitive reactions and anaphylaxis. Second 
line medications may not fully address the patients' medical condition and it is 
desirable to keep patients on first line therapy. Drug hypersensitivity symptoms 
can range from mild cutaneous reactions to life-threatening anaphylaxis. Rapid 
drug desensitization (RDD) is a novel approach to the management of drug 
hypersensitivity reactions which are IgE and non-IgE mediated. Through the 
diferent desensitization protocols patients can receive the full dose of the 
medications that they have presented a hypersensitive reaction and been 
protected against anaphylaxis. This review looks at the current literature on 
hypersensitivity reactions (HSR) to chemotherapy drugs and monoclonal antibodies 
and the potential use of RDD for their management.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.org.

DOI: 10.2174/1381612822666161025154506
PMID: 27784245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. JMIR Res Protoc. 2016 Oct 26;5(4):e202. doi: 10.2196/resprot.6248.

Protocol for a Randomized Controlled Trial of Proactive Web-Based Versus 
Telephone-Based Information and Support: Can Electronic Platforms Deliver 
Effective Care for Lung Cancer Patients?

Paul CL(1), Boyes AW, O'Brien L, Baker AL, Henskens FA, Roos I, Clinton-McHarg 
T, Bellamy D, Colburn G, Rose S, Cox ME, Fradgley EA, Baird H, Barker D.

Author information:
(1)Priority Research Centre for Health Behaviour, School of Medicine and Public 
Health, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, Australia. 
chris.paul@newcastle.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: Community-based services such as telephone support lines can provide 
valuable informational, emotional, and practical support for cancer patients via 
telephone- or Web-based (live chat or email) platforms. However, very little 
rigorous research has examined the efficacy of such services in improving 
patient outcomes.
OBJECTIVE: This study will determine whether: proactive telephone or 
Web-delivered support produces outcomes superior to printed information; and 
Web-delivered support produces outcomes comparable to telephone support.
METHODS: A consecutive sample of 501 lung cancer outpatients will be recruited 
from 50 Australian health services to participate in a patient-randomized 
controlled trial (RCT). Eligible individuals must: be 18 years or older; have 
received a lung cancer diagnosis (including mesothelioma) within the previous 4 
months; have an approximate life expectancy of at least 6 months; and have 
Internet access. Participants will be randomly allocated to receive: (1) an 
information booklet, (2) proactive telephone support, or (3) proactive Web 
support, chat, and/or email. The primary patient outcomes will be measured by 
the General Health Questionnaire (GHQ-12) and Health Education and Impact 
Questionnaire (heiQ) at 3 and 6 months post recruitment. The acceptability of 
proactive recruitment strategies will also be assessed.
RESULTS: It is hypothesized that participants receiving telephone or Web support 
will report reduced distress (GHQ-12 scores that are 0.3 standard deviations 
(SD) lower) and greater self-efficacy (heiQ scores that are 0.3 SDs higher) than 
participants receiving booklets. Individuals receiving Web support will report 
heiQ scores within 0.29 SDs of individuals receiving telephone support.
CONCLUSIONS: If proven effective, electronic approaches such as live-chat and 
email have the potential to increase the accessibility and continuity of 
supportive care delivered by community-based services. This evidence may also 
inform the redesigning of helpline-style services to be effective and responsive 
to patient needs.

DOI: 10.2196/resprot.6248
PMCID: PMC5103105
PMID: 27784648

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


940. J Food Sci Technol. 2016 Aug;53(8):3320-3328. doi:
10.1007/s13197-016-2309-6.  Epub 2016 Aug 13.

Shelf life extension of green chillies (Capsicum annuum L.) using shellac-based 
surface coating in combination with modified atmosphere packaging.

Chitravathi K(1), Chauhan OP(1), Raju PS(1).

Author information:
(1)Defence Food Research Laboratory, Siddharthanagar, Mysore, 570011 India.

Shellac-based surface coating was used in combination with passive modified 
atmosphere (MA) packaging for shelf life extension of fresh green chillies. The 
green chillies were coated with shellac coating, packed in anti-fog film and 
kept at 8 ± 1 °C for storage along with uncoated control. The coated and MA 
packed chillies showed significantly lower respiration rates as compared to 
control. The physico-chemical characteristics showed significantly lesser 
variations in terms of physiological loss in weight, firmness, colour, pigments, 
ascorbic acid and antioxidant activity during storage. A shelf life extension of 
48 days was observed for coated and MA packed chillies against uncoated and MA 
packed (28 days) and control (15 days) ones. Shellac coated chillies showed a 
shelf life of 30 days at 8 ± 1 °C. Shellac coating along with the passive MA 
packaging resulted in restriction of metabolic activities (respiration) and 
delayed senescence and was found most effective in maintaining the postharvest 
quality of green chillies during low temperature storage.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-016-2309-6
PMCID: PMC5055896
PMID: 27784926


941. Gastroenterology Res. 2012 Apr;5(2):52-56. doi: 10.4021/gr433w. Epub 2012
Mar  20.

Prevalence of Adenomas Found on Colonoscopy in Patients With HIV.

Gutkin E(1), Hussain SA(1), Mehta P(1), Kim SH(1), Pollack S(2), Rubin M(1).

Author information:
(1)New York Hospital Queens Weill Cornell Medical College, 56-45 Main Street, 
Flushing, NY, USA.
(2)St. John's University, 8000 Utopia Parkway, Queens, New York, USA.

BACKGROUND: The life expectancy of patients with HIV has increased significantly 
since the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy in 1995. Although 
this population of patients now carries less risk for the development of AIDS 
defining illnesses and malignancies, they are still at risk for non-AIDS 
defining cancers, such as colon, prostate, and breast. Several studies have 
shown that HIV infected patients have a higher prevalence of advanced colonic 
neoplasia which occur at a younger age. Our aim is to examine the prevalence of 
adenomas and adenocarcinoma in HIV patients undergoing colonoscopy.
METHODS: HIV patients seen in our gastroenterology clinic and inpatient service 
undergoing colonoscopy were identified from 2010 - 2011. Indication was 
screening in 27 patients and diagnostic in 23 patients. Significant lesions were 
defined as adenomas, serrated polyps, and adenocarcinoma.
RESULTS: Total 50 patients were included in the study, 32 male and 18 female 
(mean age: 53.6; range 37 - 72 years), 25 patients were African American, 21 
were Hispanic, 3 were Caucasian, and one was Indian, 39 patients had 
undetectable HIV RNA, 30 patients had CD4 lymphocyte counts greater than 500, 20 
had CD4 lymphocyte counts less than 500, and 4 patients had CD4 lymphocyte 
counts less than 200, 52% (26/50) of patients had polyps. Significant lesions 
(adenomas and serrated polyps) were seen in 34% (17/50) of patients, 39% in 
diagnostic and 30% in screening procedures (P = 0.56). Males were found to have 
significant lesions 28% of the time as compared to 44% of females (P = 0.35), 
43% of Hispanics had significant lesions versus 24% of African Americans (P = 
0.22), 25% of the patients under age 50 were found to have significant lesions, 
45% of the patients with detectable HIV RNA levels were found to have 
significant lesions vs 31% (P = 0.48). Surprisingly, patients with CD4 counts > 
500 had significantly more adenomas than those with CD4 counts < 500, 47% vs 15% 
(P = 0.03). No adenocarcinomas were seen in our patient population.
CONCLUSION: In our case series of HIV patients the adenoma detection rate was 
34% overall, 45% in the patients with detectable HIV RNA levels, and 47% in 
patients with CD4 counts > 500. Additionally, there was a 25% adenoma detection 
rate in patients less than fifty years of age. This data reinforces the need for 
aggressive colon cancer screening in the HIV population.

DOI: 10.4021/gr433w
PMCID: PMC5051166
PMID: 27785180


942. F1000Res. 2016 Jul 15;5:1716. doi: 10.12688/f1000research.9150.2.
eCollection  2016.

Development and interval testing of a naturalistic driving methodology to 
evaluate driving behavior in clinical research.

Babulal GM(1), Addison A(2), Ghoshal N(1), Stout SH(1), Vernon EK(1), Sellan 
M(2), Roe CM(1).

Author information:
(1)Charles F. and Joanne Knight Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Department 
of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, USA.
(2)University Geographic Information System, Washington University, St. Louis, 
USA.

Background: The number of older adults in the United States will double by 2056. 
Additionally, the number of licensed drivers will increase along with extended 
driving-life expectancy. Motor vehicle crashes are a leading cause of injury and 
death in older adults. Alzheimer's disease (AD) also negatively impacts driving 
ability and increases crash risk. Conventional methods to evaluate driving 
ability are limited in predicting decline among older adults. Innovations in GPS 
hardware and software can monitor driving behavior in the actual environments 
people drive in. Commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) devices are affordable, easy to 
install and capture large volumes of data in real-time. However, adapting these 
methodologies for research can be challenging. This study sought to adapt a COTS 
device and determine an interval that produced accurate data on the actual route 
driven for use in future studies involving older adults with and without AD.  
Methods: Three subjects drove a single course in different vehicles at different 
intervals (30, 60 and 120 seconds), at different times of day, morning 
(9:00-11:59AM), afternoon (2:00-5:00PM) and night (7:00-10pm). The nine datasets 
were examined to determine the optimal collection interval. Results: Compared to 
the 120-second and 60-second intervals, the 30-second interval was optimal in 
capturing the actual route driven along with the lowest number of incorrect 
paths and affordability weighing considerations for data storage and curation. 
Discussion: Use of COTS devices offers minimal installation efforts, unobtrusive 
monitoring and discreet data extraction.  However, these devices require strict 
protocols and controlled testing for adoption into research paradigms.  After 
reliability and validity testing, these devices may provide valuable insight 
into daily driving behaviors and intraindividual change over time for 
populations of older adults with and without AD.  Data can be aggregated over 
time to look at changes or adverse events and ascertain if decline in 
performance is occurring.

DOI: 10.12688/f1000research.9150.2
PMCID: PMC5063038
PMID: 27785360

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: No competing interests were 
disclosed.


943. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 2017 Feb;274(2):1097-1102. doi: 
10.1007/s00405-016-4355-0. Epub 2016 Oct 26.

Building 3D anatomical model of coiling of the internal carotid artery derived 
from CT angiographic data.

Govsa F(1), Yagdi T(2), Ozer MA(3), Eraslan C(4), Alagoz AK(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, Ege University, 35100, Izmir, 
Turkey. figen.govsa@ege.edu.tr.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Ege University, 
Izmir, Turkey.
(3)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, Ege University, 35100, Izmir, 
Turkey.
(4)Department of Radiology, Faculty of Medicine, Ege University, Izmir, Turkey.
(5)Medical Student, Faculty of Medicine, Ege University, Izmir, Turkey.

The purpose of this study is to recreate live patient arterial anomalies using 
new recent application of three-dimensional (3D) printed anatomical models. 
Another purpose of building such models is to evaluate the effectiveness of 
angiographic data. With the help of the DICOM files from computed tomographic 
angiography (CT-A), we were able to build a printed model of variant course of 
the internal carotid artery (ICA). Images of coiling of the ICA taken by CT-A, 
were then converted into 3D images using Google SketchUp free software, and the 
images were saved in stereolithography format. Imaging helped us conduct the 
examination in details with reference to geometrical features of ICA, degree of 
curve, its extension, location and presence of loop. Challenging vascular 
anatomy was exposed with models of adverse curve of carotid anatomy, including 
highly angulated necks, conical necks, short necks, tortuous carotid arteries, 
and narrowed carotid lumens. It assisted us to comprehend spatial anatomy 
configuration of life-like models. 3D model can be very effective in cases when 
anatomical difficulties are detected through the CT-A, and therefore, a tactile 
approach is demanded preoperatively. 3D life-like models serve as an essential 
office-based tool in vascular surgery as they assist surgeons in preoperative 
planning, develop intraoperative guidance, teach both the patients and the 
surgical trainees, and simulate to show patient-specific procedures in medical 
field.

DOI: 10.1007/s00405-016-4355-0
PMID: 27785571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Australas J Ageing. 2017 Mar;36(1):60-64. doi: 10.1111/ajag.12355. Epub 2016
Oct  27.

Am I too old for this, Doctor? Using population life expectancy to guide 
clinical decision-making.

Broad JB(1), Dunstan K(2), Claridge A(1)(3), Harris R(4).

Author information:
(1)Freemasons' Department of Geriatric Medicine, University of Auckland, 
Auckland, New Zealand.
(2)Statistics New Zealand, Christchurch, New Zealand.
(3)Waitemata District Health Board, Auckland, New Zealand.
(4)Auckland District Health Board, Auckland, New Zealand.

OBJECTIVE: Prognostication is important in clinical decision-making, especially 
for older people. The aim was to present estimates of life expectancy for older 
people in New Zealand.
METHODS: Statistics New Zealand age-sex-specific death rates were used to derive 
quartiles of expected years of life remaining in people aged over 65 years.
RESULTS: Given current patterns and trends in New Zealand death rates, 50% of 
women reaching age 80 years in 2016 can expect to live at least another 10.5 
years, 25% will live over 14.7 years, and 25% will die within 6.2 years. 
Comparable results for men reaching age 80 years in 2016 are 8.5 years, 12.7 
years and 4.6 years, respectively. Of those reaching age 90 years in 2016, 
median expected years of life left is 4.2 years for women and 3.4 years for men.
CONCLUSION: Demographic norms are useful as a guide when specific predictive 
tools are unavailable.

© 2016 AJA Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/ajag.12355
PMID: 27785890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. J Med Econ. 2017 Mar;20(3):288-296. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2016.1254091. Epub
 2016 Nov 10.

Individualized cost-effectiveness analysis of patient-centered care: a case 
series of hospitalized patient preferences departing from practice-based 
guidelines.

Padula WV(1), Millis MA(2), Worku AD(3)(4), Pronovost PJ(5), Bridges JF(1), 
Meltzer DO(3)(6).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Health Policy & Management , Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School 
of Public Health , Baltimore , MD , USA.
(2)b Pritzker School of Medicine , University of Chicago , Chicago , IL , USA.
(3)c Section of Hospital Medicine, University of Chicago , Chicago , IL , USA.
(4)d CareMore Health Plan , Las Vegas , NV , USA.
(5)e Departments of Anesthesiology , Critical Care and Surgery, Johns Hopkins 
School of Medicine , Baltimore , MD , USA.
(6)f Center for Health and the Social Sciences (CHeSS), University of Chicago , 
Chicago , IL , USA.

OBJECTIVE: To develop cases of preference-sensitive care and analyze the 
individualized cost-effectiveness of respecting patient preference compared to 
guidelines.
METHODS: Four cases were analyzed comparing patient preference to guidelines: 
(a) high-risk cancer patient preferring to forgo colonoscopy; (b) decubitus 
patient preferring to forgo air-fluidized bed use; (c) anemic patient preferring 
to forgo transfusion; (d) end-of-life patient requesting all resuscitative 
measures. Decision trees were modeled to analyze cost-effectiveness of 
alternative treatments that respect preference compared to guidelines in USD per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) at a $100,000/QALY willingness-to-pay 
threshold from patient, provider and societal perspectives.
RESULTS: Forgoing colonoscopy dominates colonoscopy from patient, provider, and 
societal perspectives. Forgoing transfusion and air-fluidized bed are 
cost-effective from all three perspectives. Palliative care is cost-effective 
from provider and societal perspectives, but not from the patient perspective.
CONCLUSION: Prioritizing incorporation of patient preferences within guidelines 
holds good value and should be prioritized when developing new guidelines.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2016.1254091
PMID: 27786569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Issues Ment Health Nurs. 2016 Dec;37(12):934-941. doi: 
10.1080/01612840.2016.1226999. Epub 2016 Oct 27.

What Physical Health Means to Me: Perspectives of People with Mental Illness.

Happell B(1), Ewart SB(2), Platania-Phung C(1), Bocking J(1), Scholz B(1), 
Stanton R(3).

Author information:
(1)a SYNERGY: Nursing and Midwifery Research Centre, University of Canberra, 
Faculty of Health, and ACT Health, Canberra Hospital , Woden , Australia.
(2)b SYNERGY: Nursing and Midwifery Research Centre, University of Canberra and 
ACT Health , Woden , Australia.
(3)c Central Queensland University, School of Medical and Applied Sciences, 
Queensland, Australia, SYNERGY: Nursing and Midwifery Research Centre, 
University of Canberra, Faculty of Health, and ACT Health, Canberra Hospital , 
Woden , Australia.

There are significant inequalities in physical health and life expectancy 
between people with and without a mental illness. Understanding perspectives of 
people with mental illness on personal meanings of physical health is essential 
to ensuring health services are aligned with consumer understandings, needs, and 
values. A qualitative exploratory study was undertaken involving focus groups 
with 31 consumers in The Australian Capital Territory, Australia. Participants 
were asked: "What does physical health mean to you?" Thematic analysis was 
applied to interview transcripts. Five themes are discussed, representing 
different emphases in the meaning of physical health: (1) physical and mental 
are interconnected, (2) absence of disease, (3) moving the body, (4) struggling 
for healthy diet, and (5) functioning and participation. Physical pain was a 
difficulty that arose across these themes. Mental health consumers see physical 
health as always connected with well-being. Nurses would benefit from been 
informed by consumer understandings of physical health. In addition, there 
should be more attention to quality of life measures of people with mental 
illness as these are more congruent with consumer perspectives on physical 
health than biomedical measures.

DOI: 10.1080/01612840.2016.1226999
PMID: 27786585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. J Neurosurg Sci. 2017 Jun;61(3):303-315. doi:
10.23736/S0390-5616.16.03911-4.  Epub 2016 Oct 27.

Minimally invasive spine surgery in spinal infections.

Verdú-López F(1), Vanaclocha-Vanaclocha V(2), Mayorga-Villa JD(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Consorcio Hospital General Universitario de 
Valencia, Valencia, Spain - franciscoverdu@hotmail.es.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Consorcio Hospital General Universitario de 
Valencia, Valencia, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: Although spinal infections have always been present recently their 
incidence has increased, in partly fostered by the advances in medicine (i.e. 
compromised immunity, chronic diseases, increasingly complex spinal procedures, 
etc.) and increased life expectancy.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: Using PubMed for this systematic review, the main spine 
infections types will be addressed focusing in the minimally invasive surgical 
techniques that can be used in their treatment.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: Spontaneous and iatrogenic pyogenic and non-pyogenic spine 
infections can be treated in many different ways depending on their extension 
and location as well as on their causative microorganisms. The indications of 
percutaneous image-guided, endoscopic and microsurgical treatment techniques 
will be updated.
CONCLUSIONS: In spine infections minimally invasive surgical techniques show a 
great potential as to be safe, effective, with low surgical morbidity and fast 
patients' recovery.

DOI: 10.23736/S0390-5616.16.03911-4
PMID: 27787487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Pharmacoeconomics. 2017 Feb;35(2):237-248. doi: 10.1007/s40273-016-0459-z.

Simulation Modelling in Ophthalmology: Application to Cost Effectiveness of 
Ranibizumab and Aflibercept for the Treatment of Wet Age-Related Macular 
Degeneration in the United Kingdom.

Claxton L(1), Hodgson R(2), Taylor M(2), Malcolm B(3), Pulikottil Jacob R(3).

Author information:
(1)York Health Economics Consortium, University of York, York, UK. 
lindsay.claxton@york.ac.uk.
(2)York Health Economics Consortium, University of York, York, UK.
(3)Novartis Pharmaceuticals UK Limited, Frimley Business Park, Surrey, UK.

BACKGROUND: Previously developed models in ophthalmology have generally used a 
Markovian structure. There are a number of limitations with this approach, most 
notably the ability to base patient outcomes on best-corrected visual acuity 
(BCVA) in both eyes, which may be overcome using a different modelling 
structure. Simulation modelling allows for this to be modelled more precisely, 
and therefore may provide more accurate and relevant estimates of the cost 
effectiveness of ophthalmology interventions.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to explore the appropriateness of simulation 
modelling in ophthalmology, using the disease area of wet age-related macular 
degeneration (wAMD) as an example.
METHODS: A de novo economic model was built using a patient-level simulation, 
which compared ranibizumab with aflibercept in wAMD. Disease progression was 
measured using BCVA. Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) was estimated using 
a regression analysis linking BCVA in each eye to utility. The analysis was from 
the perspective of the National Health Service in the UK. Five different 
regression models were explored and were based on BCVA in either one eye or both 
eyes.
RESULTS: The model outputs provide some evidence to support the hypothesis that 
the analyses using the two-eye models for estimating HRQoL generate a more 
accurate estimation of incremental quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
associated with the positive treatment effect for ranibizumab versus 
aflibercept. Second-order analysis broadly supported these findings, and showed 
that the variation in incremental costs was slightly lower than in incremental 
QALYs. The second-order analysis estimated similar incremental costs and a 
greater overall variation in incremental QALYs than the first-order analysis, 
suggesting important non-linearities within the model.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis suggests that patient-level simulation models may be 
well suited to representing the real-world patient pathway in wAMD, particularly 
when aspects of disease progression cannot be adequately captured using a Markov 
structure. The benefits of a simulation approach can be demonstrated in the 
modelling of HRQoL as a function of BCVA in both eyes.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-016-0459-z
PMID: 27787744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Methods Mol Biol. 2017;1493:265-275. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6448-2_19.

Micro-CALI to Study Localized Roles of the Semaphorin Signaling Component CRMP 
in Axon Growth.

Goshima Y(1), Takei K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology & Neurobiology, Yokohama City University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Yokohama, 236-0004, Japan. 
goshima@med.yokohama-cu.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Medical Life Sciences, Yokohama City University Graduate School 
of Medical Life Science, Yokohama, 230-0045, Japan.

Elucidating the local function of proteins is essential for understanding not 
only the individual proteins but also the organization of the cell or even 
tissue as a whole. However, until now, few attempts have been made to understand 
local proteins function in cells because of a lack of acute inactivation 
technique of local proteins with high versatility. Here we describe the 
application of the chromophore-assisted light inactivation (CALI) method to 
elucidate the role of the semaphorin signaling component CRMP located within the 
growth cone area in axon growth and growth cone turning.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6448-2_19
PMID: 27787857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. AIDS Care. 2017 May;29(5):654-659. doi: 10.1080/09540121.2016.1248348. Epub
2016  Oct 28.

Subjective memory complaints are associated with poorer cognitive performance in 
adults with HIV.

Kamkwalala A(1), Hulgan T(2), Newhouse P(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychiatry , Vanderbilt Center for Cognitive Medicine , 
Nashville , TN , USA.
(2)b Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases , Vanderbilt 
University Medical Center , Nashville , TN , USA.
(3)c Veterans Affairs Tennessee Valley Healthcare System Geriatric Research, 
Education, and Clinical Center (VA TVHS GRECC) , Nashville , TN , USA.

With successful antiretroviral therapy in the US, HIV-positive adults now 
routinely survive into old age. However, increased life expectancy with HIV 
introduces the added complication of age-related cognitive decline. Aging with 
HIV has been associated with poorer cognitive outcomes compared to HIV-negative 
adults. While up to 50% of older HIV-positive adults will develop some degree of 
cognitive impairment over their lifetime, cognitive symptoms are often not 
consistently monitored, until those symptoms are significant enough to impair 
daily life. In this study we found that subjective memory complaint (SMC) 
ratings correlated with measurable memory performance impairments in 
HIV-positive adults, but not HIV-negative adults. As the HIV-positive population 
ages, structured subjective cognitive assessment may be beneficial to identify 
the early signs of cognitive impairment, and subsequently allow for earlier 
interventions to maintain cognitive performance as these adults continue to 
survive into old age.

DOI: 10.1080/09540121.2016.1248348
PMCID: PMC5584557
PMID: 27788587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


951. Lancet. 2016 Oct 22;388(10055):1985-1994. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(16)31658-0.

Nasal chondrocyte-based engineered autologous cartilage tissue for repair of 
articular cartilage defects: an observational first-in-human trial.

Mumme M(1), Barbero A(1), Miot S(1), Wixmerten A(1), Feliciano S(1), Wolf F(1), 
Asnaghi AM(1), Baumhoer D(2), Bieri O(3), Kretzschmar M(3), Pagenstert G(1), 
Haug M(1), Schaefer DJ(1), Martin I(4), Jakob M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Biomedicine, University Hospital Basel, University 
of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Institute of Pathology, University Hospital Basel, University 
of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Radiology, University Hospital Basel, University of Basel, 
Basel, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Surgery and Biomedicine, University Hospital Basel, University 
of Basel, Basel, Switzerland. Electronic address: ivan.martin@usb.ch.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2016 Oct 22;388(10055):1957-1958.
    Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2016 Dec;12 (12 ):691.

BACKGROUND: Articular cartilage injuries have poor repair capacity, leading to 
progressive joint damage, and cannot be restored predictably by either 
conventional treatments or advanced therapies based on implantation of articular 
chondrocytes. Compared with articular chondrocytes, chondrocytes derived from 
the nasal septum have superior and more reproducible capacity to generate 
hyaline-like cartilage tissues, with the plasticity to adapt to a joint 
environment. We aimed to assess whether engineered autologous nasal 
chondrocyte-based cartilage grafts allow safe and functional restoration of knee 
cartilage defects.
METHODS: In a first-in-human trial, ten patients with symptomatic, 
post-traumatic, full-thickness cartilage lesions (2-6 cm2) on the femoral 
condyle or trochlea were treated at University Hospital Basel in Switzerland. 
Chondrocytes isolated from a 6 mm nasal septum biopsy specimen were expanded and 
cultured onto collagen membranes to engineer cartilage grafts (30 × 40 × 2 mm). 
The engineered tissues were implanted into the femoral defects via 
mini-arthrotomy and assessed up to 24 months after surgery. Primary outcomes 
were feasibility and safety of the procedure. Secondary outcomes included 
self-assessed clinical scores and MRI-based estimation of morphological and 
compositional quality of the repair tissue. This study is registered with 
ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT01605201. The study is ongoing, with an approved 
extension to 25 patients.
FINDINGS: For every patient, it was feasible to manufacture cartilaginous grafts 
with nasal chondrocytes embedded in an extracellular matrix rich in 
glycosaminoglycan and type II collagen. Engineered tissues were stable through 
handling with forceps and could be secured in the injured joints. No adverse 
reactions were recorded and self-assessed clinical scores for pain, knee 
function, and quality of life were improved significantly from before surgery to 
24 months after surgery. Radiological assessments indicated variable degrees of 
defect filling and development of repair tissue approaching the composition of 
native cartilage.
INTERPRETATION: Hyaline-like cartilage tissues, engineered from autologous nasal 
chondrocytes, can be used clinically for repair of articular cartilage defects 
in the knee. Future studies are warranted to assess efficacy in large controlled 
trials and to investigate an extension of indications to early degenerative 
states or to other joints.
FUNDING: Deutsche Arthrose-Hilfe.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(16)31658-0
PMID: 27789021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Lancet Infect Dis. 2017 Jan;17(1):86-97. doi: 10.1016/S1473-3099(16)30309-7.
 Epub 2016 Oct 24.

Sociodemographic and geographical inequalities in notifiable infectious diseases 
in Australia: a retrospective analysis of 21 years of national disease 
surveillance data.

Gibney KB(1), Cheng AC(2), Hall R(2), Leder K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, The 
Alfred Centre, Melbourne, VIC, Australia; Peter Doherty Institute for Infection 
and Immunity, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia; Royal 
Melbourne Hospital, Melbourne, VIC, Australia. Electronic address: 
Katherine.Gibney@unimelb.edu.au.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, The 
Alfred Centre, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.

Comment in
    Lancet Infect Dis. 2017 Jan;17 (1):9-10.

BACKGROUND: Australia is a high-income country with a well established and 
largely publicly funded health-care system. However, some populations within 
Australia have shorter life expectancy and worse health outcomes than others. We 
explored geographical variations and sociodemographic inequities in infectious 
disease notifications in Australia.
METHODS: In this retrospective study, we analysed National Notifiable Diseases 
Surveillance System (NNDSS) notifications from 1991-2011 (n=2·4 million). We 
assessed the effect of socioeconomic disadvantage and remoteness of residence on 
national notification incidence. We calculated Gini coefficients, adjusted 
relative risks (aRRs), population attributable fractions (PAFs), and 
attributable notifications. We reported aRRs for Indigenous status in three 
jurisdictions with more than 75% completeness of Indigenous status reporting 
from the Northern Territory, South Australia, and Western Australia.
FINDINGS: Of the eight most commonly notified diseases from Jan 1, 1991, to Dec 
31, 2011, gonococcal infection was the most geographically unequal and 
campylobacteriosis was the most evenly distributed across the country. Overall, 
notification incidence was higher in remote and very remote areas than in major 
cities (aRR 3·37), and higher in the most socioeconomically disadvantaged 
quintiles compared with less disadvantaged quintiles (aRR 1·15). The PAF for 
socioeconomic disadvantage was high for blood-borne viral hepatitis but 
decreased in other disease groups. In 2011, sexually transmitted infections had 
11 093 notifications attributed to remoteness and 5597 notifications 
attributable to socioeconomic disadvantage. Notification incidence was higher in 
Indigenous than in non-Indigenous Australians (aRR 5·3).
INTERPRETATION: All diseases had differing geographical concentration and 
sociodemographic risk. Overall, sociodemographic inequities in infectious 
disease notifications have decreased, but remain unacceptably high. National 
communicable disease control is complex, requiring both targeted and 
population-wide interventions.
FUNDING: None.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1473-3099(16)30309-7
PMID: 27789179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Braz J Infect Dis. 2016 Nov-Dec;20(6):599-604. doi:
10.1016/j.bjid.2016.09.006.  Epub 2016 Oct 24.

Aging, neurocognitive impairment and adherence to antiretroviral therapy in 
human immunodeficiency virus-infected individuals.

Pinheiro CA(1), Mattos Souza LD(2), Motta JV(2), Kelbert EF(2), Martins CS(2), 
Souza MS(2), Pinheiro KA(2), Coelho FM(2), Pinheiro RT(2).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Faculdade de Medicina, Serviço de 
Asssitência Especializada em HIV AIDS, Pelotas, RS, Brazil; Universidade 
Católica de Pelotas, Programa de Pós-Graduação em Saúde e Comportamento, 
Pelotas, RS, Brazil. Electronic address: cezarart@terra.com.br.
(2)Universidade Católica de Pelotas, Programa de Pós-Graduação em Saúde e 
Comportamento, Pelotas, RS, Brazil.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVE: There is an increasing number of older patients with human 
immunodeficiency virus infection due to the success of antiretroviral therapy, 
the improved prognosis and life expectancy of patients, and the higher number of 
new infections among older individuals. The main objective of the present study 
was to compare the characteristics of older human immunodeficiency virus 
patients with those of younger patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional study with human 
immunodeficiency virus-infected patients who were treated at the Specialized 
Care Service (Serviço de Assistência Especializada) for human immunodeficiency 
virus/AIDS in the city of Pelotas, South Brazil. Sociodemographic information as 
well as data on human immunodeficiency virus infection and treatment were 
collected. All participants underwent psychiatric and neurocognitive 
assessments, and their adherence to antiretroviral therapy was evaluated.
RESULTS: A total of 392 patients participated in the study, with 114 patients 
aged 50 years and older. The characteristics showing significant differences 
between older and younger human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients 
included race/ethnicity, comorbidities, duration and adherence to antiretroviral 
therapy, currently undetectable viral load, and cognitive impairment. Compared 
to younger patients, older patients were at higher risk of exhibiting cognitive 
