assumptions on its sustained effect.
CONCLUSIONS: We found strong evidence that BNP-guided care is a cost-effective 
alternative to clinically guided care in younger patients with HFrEF. It is 
potentially cost-effective in younger patients with HFpEF and older patients 
with HFrEF, but more evidence is required, particularly with respect to the 
frequency, duration and BNP target for monitoring. Cost-effectiveness results 
from trials in specialist settings cannot be generalised to primary care.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-014010
PMCID: PMC5223729
PMID: 28031211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


519. J Bacteriol. 2017 Feb 14;199(5):e00798-16. doi: 10.1128/JB.00798-16. Print
2017  Mar 1.

Polynucleotide Phosphorylase, RNase E/G, and YbeY Are Involved in the Maturation 
of 4.5S RNA in Corynebacterium glutamicum.

Maeda T(1)(2), Tanaka Y(1), Wachi M(2), Inui M(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute of Innovative Technology for the Earth, Kyoto, Japan.
(2)Department of Bioengineering, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Yokohama, Japan.
(3)Research Institute of Innovative Technology for the Earth, Kyoto, Japan 
mmg-lab@rite.or.jp.
(4)Graduate School of Biological Sciences, Nara Institute of Science and 
Technology, Nara, Japan.

Corynebacterium glutamicum has been applied for the industrial production of 
various metabolites, such as amino acids. To understand the biosynthesis of the 
membrane protein in this bacterium, we investigated the process of signal 
recognition particle (SRP) assembly. SRP is found in all three domains of life 
and plays an important role in the membrane insertion of proteins. SRP RNA is 
initially transcribed as precursor molecules; however, relatively little is 
known about its maturation. In C. glutamicum, SRP consists of the Ffh protein 
and 4.5S RNA lacking an Alu domain. In this study, we found that 3'-to-5' 
exoribonuclease, polynucleotide phosphorylase (PNPase), and two endo-type 
RNases, RNase E/G and YbeY, are involved in the 3' maturation of 4.5S RNA in C. 
glutamicum The mature form of 4.5S RNA was inefficiently formed in ΔrneG Δpnp 
mutant cells, suggesting the existence of an alternative pathway for the 3' 
maturation of 4.5S RNA. Primer extension analysis also revealed that the 5' 
mature end of 4.5S RNA corresponds to that of the transcriptional start site. 
Immunoprecipitated Ffh protein contained immature 4.5S RNA in Δpnp, ΔrneG, and 
ΔybeY mutants, suggesting that 4.5S RNA precursors can interact with Ffh. These 
results imply that the maturation of 4.5S RNA can be performed in the 4.5S 
RNA-Ffh complex.IMPORTANCE Overproduction of a membrane protein, such as a 
transporter, is useful for engineering of strains of Corynebacterium glutamicum, 
which is a workhorse of amino acid production. To understand membrane protein 
biogenesis in this bacterium, we investigated the process of signal recognition 
particle (SRP) assembly. SRP contains the Ffh protein and SRP RNA and plays an 
important role in the membrane insertion of proteins. Although SRP RNA is highly 
conserved among the three domains of life, relatively little is known about its 
maturation. We show that PNPase, RNase E/G, and YbeY are involved in the 3' 
maturation of the SRP RNA (4.5S RNA) in this bacterium. This indicates that 3' 
end processing in this organism is different from that in other bacteria, such 
as Escherichia coli.

Copyright © 2017 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.00798-16
PMCID: PMC5309912
PMID: 28031281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Int J Epidemiol. 2017 Aug 1;46(4):1239-1248. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyw290.

The effects of New York City's coordinated public health programmes on mortality 
through 2011.

Muennig P(1), Masters R(2), Vail D(3), Hakes J(4).

Author information:
(1)Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University, Health Policy and 
Management.
(2)Sociology Department, University of Colorado Boulder.
(3)Stanford medical school, 291 campus drive Stanford CA 94305.
(4)US Bureau of the Census.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2017 Aug 1;46(4):1248-1250.

BACKGROUND: In 2003, New York City (NYC) implemented a series of coordinated 
policies designed to reduce non-communicable disease.
METHODS: We used coarsened exact matching (CEM) of individuals living inside and 
outside NYC between the years of 1992-2000 and 2002-10 to estimate 
difference-in-difference survival time models, a quasi-experimental approach. We 
also fitted age-period-cohort (APC) models to explore mortality impacts by 
gender, race, age, borough and cause of death over this same time period.
RESULTS: Both CEM and APC models show that survival gains were large in the 
pre-2003 era of health policy reform relative to the rest of the USA, but small 
afterwards. There is no clear link between any policy and changes in mortality 
by age, gender, ethnicity, borough, or cause of death.
CONCLUSIONS: NYC's gains in survival relative to the rest of the nation were not 
linked to the city's innovative and coordinated health policy efforts.

© The Author 2016; all rights reserved. Published by Oxford University Press on 
behalf of the International Epidemiological Association

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyw290
PMCID: PMC6251557
PMID: 28031310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Mens Sana Monogr. 2016 Jan-Dec;14(1):187-213. doi: 10.4103/0973-1229.193083.

In Search of Rationality in Human Longevity and Immortality.

Bhar GC(1).

Author information:
(1)M.Sc., Ph.D. (Southampton), Research Professor of Philosophy of Sciences 
(Honorary), Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda University, Belur Math, Howrah, West 
Bengal, India.

The human body is machine-like, but self-moving, self-regulating, and 
self-adjusting, governed by willpower and intelligence. Aging of the body is 
basically a maintenance problem and so it could perhaps be postponed by thorough 
and frequent maintenance. Aging brings on a cascade of ills and health problems 
leading to deterioration of physical, mental, emotional, and social dimensions 
of life. This paper deals with solution of the problem philosophically in the 
light of Indian scriptures without entering into traditional bioethical issues. 
With a meaningful reason for existence, life can be extended. Examining the 
scientific perspectives on aging, some common manipulations for its extension 
are discussed. These are calorie restriction, vitamin and antioxidant treatment, 
exercise and hormonal interventions, etc. Finally, the question of longevity is 
explored through pursuance of eternal value-based activity and spirituality in 
the tradition of Indian heritage.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-1229.193083
PMCID: PMC5179616
PMID: 28031631

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


522. Future Sci OA. 2015 Sep 1;1(2):FSO57. doi: 10.4155/fso.15.57. eCollection
2015  Sep.

Cystic fibrosis - a multiorgan protein misfolding disease.

Fraser-Pitt D(1), O'Neil D(1).

Author information:
(1)NovaBiotics Ltd, Cuickshank Building, Craibstone, Aberdeen, AB21 9TR UK.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a heterogeneous multiorgan disease caused by mutations 
in the CFTR gene leading to misfolding (and other defects) and consequent 
dysfunction of CFTR protein. The majority of mutations cause a severe CF 
phenotype, and people with this condition will require a wide variety of medical 
interventions and therapies throughout their lives to address the symptoms of 
their condition. CF affects many different organ systems, but the most serious 
consequence of the disease is degeneration of lung function due to chronic 
respiratory infection and colonization of the airways with opportunistic 
microbial pathogens. Improvements in therapeutics, particularly the effective 
use of antibiotics, have led to significant gradual increases in life 
expectancy. There remains, however, a continuing need for newer, safer and more 
effective antimicrobials and mucolytic agents to maintain and improve our 
ability to combat CF lung infections before other curative approaches which 
target the root cause of the disease become available.

DOI: 10.4155/fso.15.57
PMCID: PMC5137970
PMID: 28031875

Conflict of interest statement: Financial & competing interests disclosure D 
O'Neil is Chief Executive Officer of NovaBiotics Ltd. D Fraser-Pitt is an 
employee of NovaBiotics Ltd. The authors have no other relevant affiliations or 
financial involvement with any organization or entity with a financial interest 
in or financial conflict with the subject matter or materials discussed in the 
manuscript apart from those disclosed. No writing assistance was utilized in the 
production of this manuscript.


523. Future Sci OA. 2016 Feb 12;2(1):FSO102. doi: 10.4155/fsoa-2015-0016.
eCollection  2016 Mar.

The effect of frailty should be considered in the management plan of older 
people with Type 2 diabetes.

Abdelhafiz AH(1), Koay L(1), Sinclair AJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Rotherham General Hospital, Moorgate Road, 
Rotherham, S60 2UD, UK; Department of Geriatric Medicine, Rotherham General 
Hospital, Moorgate Road, Rotherham, S60 2UD, UK.
(2)Foundation for Diabetes Research in Older People, Diabetes Frail Ltd, 
Droitwich Spa, WR9 0QH, UK; Foundation for Diabetes Research in Older People, 
Diabetes Frail Ltd, Droitwich Spa, WR9 0QH, UK.

The prevalence of diabetes is increasing especially in older age due to 
increased life expectancy. In old age, diabetes is associated with high 
comorbidity burden and increased prevalence of geriatric syndromes including 
frailty in addition to micro- and macro-vascular complications. The emergence of 
frailty may change the natural history of Type 2 diabetes from a progressive to 
a regressive course with increased risk of hypoglycemia. This may result in 
normalization of blood glucose levels and lead to a state of burnt-out diabetes 
in frail older people with significant weight loss. Although guidelines suggest 
relaxed glycemic control in frail elderly with diabetes, complete withdrawal of 
hypoglycemic medications may be necessary in these frail populations to reduce 
the risk of hypoglycemia.

DOI: 10.4155/fsoa-2015-0016
PMCID: PMC5137864
PMID: 28031949

Conflict of interest statement: Financial & competing interests disclosure The 
authors have no relevant affiliations or financial involvement with any 
organization or entity with a financial interest in or financial conflict with 
the subject matter or materials discussed in the manuscript. This includes 
employment, consultancies, honoraria, stock ownership or options, expert 
testimony, grants or patents received or pending, or royalties. No writing 
assistance was utilized in the production of this manuscript.


524. Rare Dis. 2016 Aug 12;4(1):e1223580. doi: 10.1080/21675511.2016.1223580. 
eCollection 2016.

Molecular mechanisms underlying Spinocerebellar Ataxia 17 (SCA17) pathogenesis.

Yang S(1), Li XJ(2), Li S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics, Emory University School of Medicine , Atlanta, 
GA, USA.
(2)Department of Human Genetics, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
GA, USA; State Key Laboratory of Molecular Developmental Biology, Institute of 
Genetics and Developmental Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.

Erratum for
    Addendum to: Yang S, et al. . Age-dependent decrease in chaperone activity 
impairs MANF expression, leading to Purkinje cell degeneration in inducible 
SCA17 mice. Neuron 2014, 81(2): 349-365; 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2013.12.002.

Spinocerebellar ataxia 17 (SCA17) belongs to the family of 9 genetically 
inherited, late-onset neurodegenerative diseases, which are caused by 
polyglutamine (polyQ) expansion in different proteins. In SCA17, the polyQ 
expansion occurs in the TATA box binding protein (TBP), which functions as a 
general transcription factor. Patients with SCA17 suffer from a broad array of 
motor and non-motor defects, and their life expectancy is normally within 20 y 
after the initial appearance of symptoms. Currently there is no effective 
treatment, but remarkable efforts have been devoted to tackle this devastating 
disorder. In this review, we will summarize our current knowledge about the 
molecular mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of SCA17, with a primary focus 
on transcriptional dysregulations. We believe that impaired transcriptional 
activities caused by mutant TBP with polyQ expansion is a major form of toxicity 
contributing to SCA17 pathogenesis, and rectifying the altered level of 
downstream transcripts represents a promising therapeutic approach for the 
treatment of SCA17.

DOI: 10.1080/21675511.2016.1223580
PMCID: PMC5154381
PMID: 28032013


525. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2016 Nov 1;17(11):5041-5045. doi: 
10.22034/APJCP.2016.17.11.5041.

Thoracic Re-irradiation for Locally Recurrent Lung Cancer.

Aktan M, Kanyilmaz G, Koc M, Aras S.

Background: Patients with recurrent or progressive lung cancer experience a 
significant symptom burden, negatively affecting quality of life and reducing 
life expectancy. Thoracic re-irradiation can be used for palliative treatment to 
relieve symptoms or as a curative treatment. Methods: Using patient charts, we 
identified and reviewed 28 cases that had received palliative thoracic 
re-irradiation for recurrent lung cancer. Results: Before re-irradiation, 32% of 
patients had stage III non-small cell lung cancer and six had small cell lung 
cancer. The median interval between treatments was 18.7 months. Median follow-up 
was 31.2 months from the initial radiotherapy and 5 months after re-irradiation. 
A better performance status before re-irradiation (<80 vs >80, p=0.09) and a 
lower overlap 90% isodose (<70 vs >70, p=0.09) showed trends toward improved 
survival. Grade 1-2 toxicity from re-irradiation was recorded in 12/28 patients, 
and no grade 3 or 4 acute toxicity was encountered. Conclusion: The role of 
palliative treatment in survival is not clear but it can provide symptomatic 
relief in patients, with no high grade toxicity. Further studies with greater 
patient numbers and longer follow-up times should facilitate determination of 
the role of this treatment in toxicity and effects on survival.

Creative Commons Attribution License

DOI: 10.22034/APJCP.2016.17.11.5041
PMCID: PMC5454717
PMID: 28032737


526. Medicine (Baltimore). 2016 Dec;95(52):e5745. doi:
10.1097/MD.0000000000005745.

Maximizing cost-effectiveness by adjusting treatment strategy according to 
glaucoma severity.

Guedes RAP(1), Guedes VMP, Gomes CEM, Chaoubah A.

Author information:
(1)Statistics Department and Public Health Department, Federal University of 
Juiz de Fora Ophthalmology Department, Santa Casa de Misericórdia Hospital 
Glaucoma Department, Paletta Guedes Ophthalmological Center, Juiz de Fora, MG, 
Brazil.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study is to determine the most cost-effective 
strategy for the treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) in Brazil, from 
the payer's perspective (Brazilian Public Health System) in the setting of the 
Glaucoma Referral Centers.
METHODS: Study design was a cost-effectiveness analysis of different treatment 
strategies for POAG. We developed 3 Markov models (one for each glaucoma stage: 
early, moderate and advanced), using a hypothetical cohort of POAG patients, 
from the perspective of the Brazilian Public Health System (SUS) and a horizon 
of the average life expectancy of the Brazilian population. Different strategies 
were tested according to disease severity. For early glaucoma, we compared 
observation, laser and medications. For moderate glaucoma, medications, laser 
and surgery. For advanced glaucoma, medications and surgery. Main outcome 
measures were ICER (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio), medical direct costs 
and QALY (quality-adjusted life year).
RESULTS: In early glaucoma, both laser and medical treatment were cost-effective 
(ICERs of initial laser and initial medical treatment over observation only, 
were R$ 2,811.39/QALY and R$ 3,450.47/QALY). Compared to observation strategy, 
the two alternatives have provided significant gains in quality of life. In 
moderate glaucoma population, medical treatment presented the highest costs 
among treatment strategies. Both laser and surgery were highly cost-effective in 
this group. For advanced glaucoma, both tested strategies were cost-effective. 
Starting age had a great impact on results in all studied groups. Initiating 
glaucoma therapy using laser or surgery were more cost-effective, the younger 
the patient.
CONCLUSION: All tested treatment strategies for glaucoma provided real gains in 
quality of life and were cost-effective. However, according to the disease 
severity, not all strategies provided the same cost-effectiveness profile. Based 
on our findings, there should be a preferred strategy for each glaucoma stage, 
according to a cost-effectiveness ratio ranking.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000005745
PMCID: PMC5207582
PMID: 28033286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None of the authors has any proprietary 
interests or conflicts of interest related to this submission. The funding 
organization had no role in the design or conduct of this research.


527. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 29;11(12):e0169065. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0169065. 
eCollection 2016.

A Model Based Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Routine Genotyping for CYP2D6 among 
Older, Depressed Inpatients Starting Nortriptyline Pharmacotherapy.

Berm EJ(1), Gout-Zwart JJ(1), Luttjeboer J(1), Wilffert B(1)(2), Postma 
MJ(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Groningen, Groningen Institute of Pharmacy, Unit of 
PharmacoTherapy, -Epidemiology and -Economics (PTE2), Groningen, the 
Netherlands.
(2)University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Department of 
Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmacology, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(3)University Medical Center Groningen (UMCG), Institute for Science in Healthy 
Aging & HealthcaRE (SHARE), Groningen, the Netherlands.
(4)University Medical Center Groningen (UMCG), Department of Epidemiology, 
Groningen, the Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: Genotyping for CYP2D6 has the potential to predict differences in 
metabolism of nortriptyline. This information could optimize pharmacotherapy. We 
determined the costs and effects of routine genotyping for old aged Dutch 
depressed inpatients.
METHODS: With a decision-tree, we modelled the first 12 weeks of nortriptyline 
therapy. Direct costs of genotyping, hospitalization, therapeutic drug 
monitoring and drugs were included. Based on genotype, patients could be 
correctly, sub-, or supratherapeutically dosed. Improvement from sub- or 
supratherapeutically dosed patients to correctly dosed patients was simulated, 
assuming that genotyping would prevent under- or overdosing of patients. In the 
base case, this improvement was assumed to be 35%. A probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis (PSA) was performed to determine uncertainty around the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, costs for genotyping were assumed €200 per 
test with a corresponding ICER at €1 333 000 per QALY. To reach a €50 000 per 
QALY cut-off, genotyping costs should be decreased towards €40 per test. At 
genotyping test costs < €35 per test, genotyping was dominant. At test costs of 
€17 per test there was a 95% probability that genotyping was cost-effective at 
€50 000 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: CYP2D6 genotyping was not cost-effective at current genotyping 
costs at a €50 000 per QALY threshold, however at test costs below €40, 
genotyping could be costs-effective.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0169065
PMCID: PMC5199075
PMID: 28033366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Maarten J. Postma has received research grants 
and fees from several pharmaceutical companies (GSK, Pfizer, SPMSD, Shire, 
Sanofi, Bayer, BMS, MedImmune, Novimmune, Astra Zeneca, Johnson & Johnson, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Mundipharma, Sigma Tau, Novartis, AbbVie, Gilead, 
Astellas, Eli Lilly, Vertex and MSD) unrelated to the subject matter of this 
paper. There are no patents, products in development or marketed products to 
declare. This does not alter our adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on 
sharing data and materials.


528. Dev Neurobiol. 2017 Jul;77(7):861-875. doi: 10.1002/dneu.22477. Epub 2017
May  22.

Axons get ahead: Insights into axon guidance and congenital cranial 
dysinnervation disorders.

Chilton JK(1), Guthrie S(2).

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Wolfson Centre for Medical Research, University of Exeter Medical 
School, Wellcome-Wolfson Centre for Medical Research, Exeter, EX2 5DW, United 
Kingdom.
(2)School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex, Falmer, Brighton, BN1 9QG.

Cranial nerves innervate head muscles in a well-characterized and highly 
conserved pattern. Identification of genes responsible for human congenital 
disorders of these nerves, combined with the analysis of their role in axonal 
development in animal models, has advanced understanding of how neuromuscular 
connectivity is established. Here, we focus on the ocular motor system, as an 
instructive example of the success of this approach in unravelling the aetiology 
of human strabismus. The discovery that ocular motility disorders can arise from 
mutations in transcription factors, including HoxA1, HoxB1, MafB, Phox2A, and 
Sall4, has revealed gene regulatory networks that pattern the brainstem and/or 
govern the differentiation of cranial motor neurons. Mutations in genes involved 
in axon growth and guidance disrupt specific stages of the extension and 
pathfinding of ocular motor nerves, and have been implicated in human 
strabismus. These genes encompass varied classes of molecule, from receptor 
complexes to dynamic effectors to cytoskeletal components, including Robo3/Rig1, 
Alpha2-chimaerin, Kif21A, TUBB2, and TUBB3. A current challenge is to understand 
the protein regulatory networks that link the cell surface to the cytoskeleton 
and to dissect the co-ordinated signalling cascades and motile responses that 
underpin axonal navigation. Here we review recent insights derived from basic 
and clinical science approaches, to show how, by capitalising on the strengths 
of each, a more complete picture of the aetiology of human congenital cranial 
dysinnervation disorders can be achieved. This elucidation of these principles 
illustrates the success of clinical genetic studies working in tandem with 
molecular and cellular models to enhance our understanding of human disease. © 
2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Develop Neurobiol 77: 861-875, 2017.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dneu.22477
PMID: 28033651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. J Clin Oncol. 2017 Jan;35(1):63-71. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2016.68.4308. Epub 2016
Oct  28.

Cost-Effectiveness of Skin Surveillance Through a Specialized Clinic for 
Patients at High Risk of Melanoma.

Watts CG(1), Cust AE(1), Menzies SW(1), Mann GJ(1), Morton RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Caroline G. Watts, Sydney School of Public Health, The University of Sydney; 
Anne E. Cust, Sydney School of Public Health, The University of Sydney, and 
Melanoma Institute Australia, The University of Sydney; Graham J. Mann, Melanoma 
Institute Australia, The University of Sydney, and Centre for Cancer Research, 
Westmead Institute for Medical Research, The University of Sydney; Rachael L. 
Morton, NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, The University of Sydney, and Melanoma 
Institute Australia, The University of Sydney; and Scott W. Menzies, Discipline 
of Dermatology, University of Sydney, and Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, 
New South Wales, Australia.

Purpose Clinical guidelines recommend that people at high risk of melanoma 
receive regular surveillance to improve survival through early detection. A 
specialized High Risk Clinic in Sydney, Australia was found to be effective for 
this purpose; however, wider implementation of this clinical service requires 
evidence of cost-effectiveness and data addressing potential overtreatment of 
suspicious skin lesions. Patients and Methods A decision-analytic model was 
built to compare the costs and benefits of specialized surveillance compared 
with standard care over a 10-year period, from a health system perspective. A 
high-risk standard care cohort was obtained using linked population data, 
comprising the Sax Institute's 45 and Up cohort study, linked to Medicare 
Benefits Schedule claims data, the cancer registry, and hospital admissions 
data. Benefits were measured in quality-adjusted life-years gained. Sensitivity 
analyses were undertaken for all model parameters. Results Specialized 
surveillance through the High Risk Clinic was both less expensive and more 
effective than standard care. The mean saving was A$6,828 (95% CI, $5,564 to 
$8,092) per patient, and the mean quality-adjusted life-year gain was 0.31 (95% 
CI, 0.27 to 0.35). The main drivers of the differences were detection of 
melanoma at an earlier stage resulting in less extensive treatment and a lower 
annual mean excision rate for suspicious lesions in specialized surveillance 
(0.81; 95% CI, 0.72 to 0.91) compared with standard care (2.55; 95% CI, 2.34 to 
2.76). The results were robust when tested in sensitivity analyses. Conclusion 
Specialized surveillance was a cost-effective strategy for the management of 
individuals at high risk of melanoma. There were also fewer invasive procedures 
in specialized surveillance compared with standard care in the community.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2016.68.4308
PMID: 28034073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Surgeon. 2017 Dec;15(6):325-328. doi: 10.1016/j.surge.2016.10.007. Epub 2016
Dec  27.

Emergency endovascular management of acute thoracic aortic pathology A safe and 
feasible option.

Ahmed Z(1), McHugh SM(2), Elmallah A(2), Colgan MP(2), O'Callaghan A(2), O'Neill 
SM(2), Madhavan P(2), Martin Z(2).

Author information:
(1)St James's Vascular Institute, St James's Hospital, Dublin, Ireland. 
Electronic address: doczeeshan@msn.com.
(2)St James's Vascular Institute, St James's Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.

Endovascular repair has revolutionised the emergency treatment of thoracic 
aortic disease. We report our 10 year experience using this treatment in 
emergency cases. A prospectively maintained vascular database was analysed. 
Patients' medical records and CT images stored on the hospital PACS system were 
also reviewed. Statistical analysis was done using IBM SPSS V21. There were a 
total of 59 thoracic aortic stenting procedures of which 33 (60% males with a 
mean age of 58 yrs) were performed for emergency thoracic pathologies: traumatic 
transection (n = 10), ruptured aneurysm (n = 6), non-traumatic dissection 
(n = 8) and penetrating aortic ulcer (n = 9). All patients had self-expanding 
endografts implanted. Two patients required debranching procedures before the 
endovascular treatment. Thirty-day mortality was 12.1% (4/33). 70% of patients 
received a single device. There were 7 procedure related complications, 6 
requiring re-intervention: thoracotomy and drainage in 2 patients, proximal 
graft extension in 2, open drainage of groin haematoma in 1 and open repair of a 
common femoral artery pseudo-aneurysm in one patient. In total 23 patients were 
transferred from 11 centres nationwide. There were no mortalities or other 
complications related to patient transfer from peripheral centres. Although 
acute thoracic aortic pathology is life threatening, appropriate blood pressure 
management and treatment of associated injuries can result in favourable 
outcomes. Endovascular repair is a safe and effective treatment option which 
enables patients to be treated with reduced morbidity and mortality. Transfer of 
patients with acute pathology to a tertiary centre can safely be performed.

Copyright © 2016 Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh (Scottish charity number 
SC005317) and Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surge.2016.10.007
PMID: 28034631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Br J Gen Pract. 2017 Jan;67(654):3. doi: 10.3399/bjgp17X688429.

Dead Unequal.

Jones R.

Comment in
    Br J Gen Pract. 2017 Mar;67(656):112.

DOI: 10.3399/bjgp17X688429
PMCID: PMC5198592
PMID: 28034923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Br J Gen Pract. 2017 Jan;67(654):36-37. doi: 10.3399/bjgp17X688765.

Mining for Deep End GPs: a group forged with steel in Yorkshire and Humber.

Walton L(1), Ratcliffe T(2), Jackson BE(3), Patterson D(4).

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Primary Medical Care, Sheffield University, Sheffield.
(2)Health Education England Yorkshire and Humber, Leeds.
(3)Academic Unit of Primary Medical Care, Sheffield University, Northern General 
Hospital, Sheffield.
(4)Health Education England, working across Yorkshire and the Humber.

DOI: 10.3399/bjgp17X688765
PMCID: PMC5198620
PMID: 28034948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2017 Aug;15(4):521-534. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-016-0297-3.

Cost-Effectiveness of Different Population Screening Strategies for Hereditary 
Haemochromatosis in Australia.

de Graaff B(1), Neil A(1), Si L(1), Yee KC(2), Sanderson K(1), Gurrin L(3), 
Palmer AJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Menzies Institute for Medical Research, Medical Science 2 Building, 
University of Tasmania, 17 Liverpool St, Private Bag 23, Hobart, TAS, 7000, 
Australia.
(2)School of Medicine, Medical Science 1 Building, University of Tasmania, 17 
Liverpool St, Private Bag 68, Hobart, TAS, 7000, Australia.
(3)Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, University of Melbourne, 
207 Bouverie St, Carlton, VIC, 3053, Australia.
(4)Menzies Institute for Medical Research, Medical Science 2 Building, 
University of Tasmania, 17 Liverpool St, Private Bag 23, Hobart, TAS, 7000, 
Australia. Andrew.Palmer@utas.edu.au.

INTRODUCTION: Amongst populations of northern European ancestry, HFE-associated 
haemochromatosis is a common genetic disorder characterised by iron overload. In 
the absence of treatment, excess iron is stored in parenchymal tissues, causing 
morbidity and mortality. Population screening programmes may increase early 
diagnosis and reduce associated disease. No contemporary health economic 
evaluation has been published for Australia. The objective of this study was to 
identify cost-effective screening strategies for haemochromatosis in the 
Australian setting.
METHODS: A Markov model using probabilistic decision analysis was developed 
comparing four adult screening strategies: the status quo (cascade and 
incidental screening), genotyping with blood and buccal samples and transferrin 
saturation followed by genotyping (TfS). Target populations were males (30 
years) and females (45 years) of northern European ancestry. Cost-effectiveness 
was estimated from the government perspective over a lifetime horizon.
RESULTS: All strategies for males were cost-effective compared to the status 
quo. The incremental costs (standard deviation) associated with genotyping 
(blood) were AUD7 (56), TfS AUD15 (45) and genotyping (buccal) AUD63 (56), 
producing ICERs of AUD1673, 4103 and 15,233/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
gained, respectively. For females, only the TfS strategy was cost-effective, 
producing an ICER of AUD10,195/QALY gained. Approximately 3% of C282Y 
homozygotes were estimated to be identified with the status quo approach, 
compared with 40% with the proposed screening strategies.
CONCLUSION: This model estimated that genotyping and TfS strategies are likely 
to be more cost-effective screening strategies than the status quo.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-016-0297-3
PMID: 28035629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Curr Med Res Opin. 2017 Apr;33(4):647-655. doi:
10.1080/03007995.2016.1277194.  Epub 2017 Jan 20.

Cost-effectiveness of switching to insulin degludec from other basal insulins: 
evidence from Swedish real-world data.

Landstedt-Hallin L(1), Gundgaard J(2), Ericsson Å(3), Ellfors-Zetterlund S(3).

Author information:
(1)a Karolinska Institutet, Department of Clinical Sciences, Division of 
Medicine , Danderyd Hospital , Stockholm , Sweden.
(2)b Novo Nordisk A/S , Søborg, Denmark.
(3)c Novo Nordisk Scandinavia AB , Malmö, Sweden.

OBJECTIVES: Health economic analysis from a healthcare and societal point of 
view was conducted to assess the cost-effectiveness of insulin degludec (IDeg) 
after switching from other basal insulins in people with type 1 diabetes.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This was a prospective, open-label, single arm, 
observational follow-up from August 2013 to October 2015 of 476 consecutive 
patients at Danderyd Hospital (Stockholm, Sweden) who switched to IDeg from 
other basal insulins (99% basal insulin analogs). The IMS CORE Diabetes Model 
(CDM) was used to predict the cost-effectiveness of life-long treatment with 
IDeg vs. other basal insulins, based on a Swedish setting.
RESULTS: Mean (SD) duration of follow-up was 21.7 (6.0) weeks. Mean HbA1c 
decreased by 2.7 mmol/mol, mean basal insulin dose decreased by 13.1% 
(p < .0001), and mean bolus insulin dose decreased by 7.5% (p < .0001) after 
switching. Frequencies of non-severe daytime hypoglycemia and non-severe 
nocturnal hypoglycemia decreased by 12% (p = .0127) and 53% (p < .0001) 
respectively and severe hypoglycemia was reduced by 62% (p = .0225). The CDM 
predicted a gain in life expectancy of 0.33 years, a discounted gain in 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) of 0.54, and lower estimated direct lifetime 
healthcare costs of SEK 22,757 for patients switching to IDeg. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) showed IDeg as dominant (i.e. higher 
effectiveness with a lower cost). Sensitivity analyses confirmed the results.
CONCLUSION: Based on this prospective, real-world, follow-up and using the CDM, 
it was estimated that switching to IDeg from other basal insulins translated 
into QALY gains including improved life expectancy and health-related quality of 
life, as well as dominant ICER, meaning cost-savings for the healthcare system. 
However, the study is limited by its observational design. Extrapolation into 
the future is only estimated since the actual treatment effect cannot be 
projected with certainty.

DOI: 10.1080/03007995.2016.1277194
PMID: 28035840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. J Med Econ. 2017 May;20(5):483-492. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2016.1277228. Epub
 2017 Jan 17.

Within the triangle of healthcare legacies: comparing the performance of 
South-Eastern European health systems.

Jakovljevic MM(1), Arsenijevic J(2), Pavlova M(2), Verhaeghe N(3), Laaser U(4), 
Groot W(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)a Health Economics and Pharmacoeconomics, Faculty of Medical Sciences , 
University of Kragujevac , Kragujevac , Serbia.
(2)b Department of Health Services Research , CAPHRI, Maastricht University 
Medical Centre, Faculty of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences, Maastricht 
University , Maastricht , The Netherlands.
(3)c Department of Public Health , I-CHER Interuniversity Centre for Health 
Economics Research, Ghent University , Ghent , Belgium.
(4)d Section of International Public Health (S-IPH), Faculty of Health Sciences 
, University of Bielefeld , Bielefeld , Germany.
(5)e Top Institute Evidence-Based Education Research (TIER); Maastricht 
University , Maastricht , The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: Inter-regional comparison of health-reform outcomes in south-eastern 
Europe (SEE).
METHODS: Macro-indicators were obtained from the WHO Health for All Database. 
Inter-regional comparison among post-Semashko, former Yugoslavia, and 
prior-1989-free-market SEE economies was conducted.
RESULTS: United Nations Development Program Human Development Index growth was 
strongest among prior-free-market SEE, followed by former Yugoslavia and 
post-Semashko. Policy cuts to hospital beds and nursing-staff capacities were 
highest in post-Semashko. Physician density increased the most in 
prior-free-market SEE. Length of hospital stay was reduced in most countries; 
frequency of outpatient visits and inpatient discharges doubled in 
prior-free-market SEE. Fertility rates fell for one third in Post-Semashko and 
prior-free-market SEE. Crude death rates slightly decreased in 
prior-free-market-SEE and post-Semashko, while growing in the former Yugoslavia 
region. Life expectancy increased by 4 years on average in all regions; 
prior-free-market SEE achieving the highest longevity. Childhood and maternal 
mortality rates decreased throughout SEE, while post-Semashko countries recorded 
the most progress.
CONCLUSIONS: Significant differences in healthcare resources and outcomes were 
observed among three historical health-policy legacies in south-eastern Europe. 
These different routes towards common goals created a golden opportunity for 
these economies to learn from each other.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2016.1277228
PMID: 28035843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Microbiology (Reading). 2017 Feb;163(2):266-279. doi: 10.1099/mic.0.000419.
Epub  2017 Mar 9.

Identification of new regulatory genes involved in the pathogenic functions of 
the rice-pathogenic bacterium Burkholderia glumae.

Melanson RA(1)(2), Barphagha I(2), Osti S(3)(2), Lelis TP(2), Karki HS(4)(2), 
Chen R(5)(2), Shrestha BK(6)(2), Ham JH(2).

Author information:
(1)Present address: Mississippi State University, Central Mississippi Research 
and Extension Center, 1320 Seven Springs Road, Raymond, MS 39154, USA.
(2)Department of Plant Pathology and Crop Physiology, Louisiana State University 
Agricultural Center, 302 Life Sciences Building, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70803, 
USA.
(3)Present address: Department of Agricultural Economics, Louisiana State 
University, Baton Rouge, LA 70803, USA.
(4)Present address: The Sainsbury Laboratory, Norwich Research Park, Norwich, 
NR4 7UH, UK.
(5)Present address: Center for Public Health Genomics, School of Medicine, 
University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA.
(6)Present address: Citrus Research and Education Center, Department of 
Microbiology and Cell Sciences, University of Florida, 700 Experiment Station 
Road, Lake Alfred, FL 33850, USA.

Burkholderia glumae is an emerging plant-pathogenic bacterium that causes 
disease in rice in several of the major rice-producing areas throughout the 
world. In the southern United States, B. glumae is the major causal agent of 
bacterial panicle blight of rice and has caused severe yield losses in recent 
decades. Despite its importance, few management options are available for 
diseases caused by B. glumae, and knowledge of how this pathogen causes disease 
is limited. In an effort to identify novel factors that contribute to the 
pathogenicity of B. glumae, random mutagenesis using the miniTn5gus transposon 
was performed on two strains of B. glumae. Resultant mutants were screened in 
the laboratory for altered phenotypes in various known or putative virulence 
factors, including toxoflavin, lipase and extracellular polysaccharides. Mutants 
that exhibited altered phenotypes compared to their parent strain were selected 
and subsequently characterized using a PCR-based method to identify the 
approximate location of the transposon insertion. Altogether, approximately 
20 000 random mutants were screened and 51 different genes were identified as 
having potential involvement in the production of toxoflavin, lipase and/or 
extracellular polysaccharide. Especially, two regulatory genes, ntpR and tepR, 
encoding a LysR-type transcriptional regulator and a σ54-dependent response 
regulator, respectively, were discovered in this study as new negative 
regulatory factors for the production of toxoflavin, the major phytotoxin 
synthesized by B. glumae and involved in bacterial pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1099/mic.0.000419
PMID: 28036242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Oncotarget. 2017 Feb 7;8(6):9996-10006. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.14310.

Cost-effectiveness of gefitinib, icotinib, and pemetrexed-based chemotherapy as 
first-line treatments for advanced non-small cell lung cancer in China.

Lu S(1), Ye M(2), Ding L(3), Tan F(3), Fu J(4), Wu B(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Shanghai Chest Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong 
University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Radiotherapy, Renji Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai 
Jiaotong University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Betta Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd., Hangzhou, China.
(4)Medical Decision and Economic Group, Department of Pharmacy, Renji Hospital, 
School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai, China.

Tyrosine kinase inhibitors of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) are 
becoming the standard treatment option for patients with advanced non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC) harboring an EGFR mutation, but the economic impact of this 
practice is unclear, especially in a health resource-limited setting. A 
decision-analytic model was developed to simulate 21-day patient transitions in 
a 10-year time horizon. The health and economic outcomes of four first-line 
strategies (pemetrexed plus cisplatin [PC] alone, PC followed by maintenance 
with pemetrexed, or initial treatment with gefitinib or icotinib) among patients 
harboring EGFR mutations were estimated and assessed via indirect comparisons. 
Costs in the Chinese setting were estimated. The primary outcome was the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Sensitivity analyses were 
performed. The icotinib strategy resulted in greater health benefits than the 
other three strategies in NSCLC patients harboring EGFR mutations. Relative to 
PC alone, PC followed by pemetrexed maintenance, gefitinib and icotinib resulted 
in ICERs of $104,657, $28,485 and $19,809 per quality-adjusted life-year gained, 
respectively. The cost of pemetrexed, the EGFR mutation prevalence and the 
utility of progression-free survival were factors that had a considerable impact 
on the model outcomes. When the icotinib Patient Assistance Program was 
available, the economic outcome of icotinib was more favorable. These results 
indicate that gene-guided therapy with icotinib might be a more cost-effective 
treatment option than traditional chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.14310
PMCID: PMC5354787
PMID: 28036283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: COMPETING INTEREST None of the authors have any 
personal or financial conflicts of interest.


538. PLoS Genet. 2016 Dec 30;12(12):e1006531. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1006531. 
eCollection 2016 Dec.

A Differentiation Transcription Factor Establishes Muscle-Specific Proteostasis 
in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Bar-Lavan Y(1), Shemesh N(1), Dror S(1), Ofir R(2), Yeger-Lotem E(3), Ben-Zvi 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences and The National Institute for Biotechnology in 
the Negev, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer Sheva, Israel.
(2)Regenerative Medicine and Stem Cell Research Center, Ben-Gurion University of 
the Negev, Beer Sheva, Israel.
(3)Department of Clinical Biochemistry and Pharmacology and The National 
Institute for Biotechnology in the Negev, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, 
Beer Sheva, Israel.

Safeguarding the proteome is central to the health of the cell. In 
multi-cellular organisms, the composition of the proteome, and by extension, 
protein-folding requirements, varies between cells. In agreement, chaperone 
network composition differs between tissues. Here, we ask how chaperone 
expression is regulated in a cell type-specific manner and whether cellular 
differentiation affects chaperone expression. Our bioinformatics analyses show 
that the myogenic transcription factor HLH-1 (MyoD) can bind to the promoters of 
chaperone genes expressed or required for the folding of muscle proteins. To 
test this experimentally, we employed HLH-1 myogenic potential to genetically 
modulate cellular differentiation of Caenorhabditis elegans embryonic cells by 
ectopically expressing HLH-1 in all cells of the embryo and monitoring chaperone 
expression. We found that HLH-1-dependent myogenic conversion specifically 
induced the expression of putative HLH-1-regulated chaperones in differentiating 
muscle cells. Moreover, disrupting the putative HLH-1-binding sites on 
ubiquitously expressed daf-21(Hsp90) and muscle-enriched hsp-12.2(sHsp) 
promoters abolished their myogenic-dependent expression. Disrupting HLH-1 
function in muscle cells reduced the expression of putative HLH-1-regulated 
chaperones and compromised muscle proteostasis during and after embryogenesis. 
In turn, we found that modulating the expression of muscle chaperones disrupted 
the folding and assembly of muscle proteins and thus, myogenesis. Moreover, 
muscle-specific over-expression of the DNAJB6 homolog DNJ-24, a limb-girdle 
muscular dystrophy-associated chaperone, disrupted the muscle chaperone network 
and exposed synthetic motility defects. We propose that cellular differentiation 
could establish a proteostasis network dedicated to the folding and maintenance 
of the muscle proteome. Such cell-specific proteostasis networks can explain the 
selective vulnerability that many diseases of protein misfolding exhibit even 
when the misfolded protein is ubiquitously expressed.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1006531
PMCID: PMC5201269
PMID: 28036392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


539. Am J Ophthalmol. 2017 Mar;175:169-172. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2016.12.015. Epub
2016  Dec 28.

Age-specific Incidence and Prevalence of Keratoconus: A Nationwide Registration 
Study.

Godefrooij DA(1), de Wit GA(2), Uiterwaal CS(3), Imhof SM(4), Wisse RP(4).

Author information:
(1)Utrecht Cornea Research Group, Department of Ophthalmology, University 
Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands. Electronic address: 
d.a.godefrooij@umcutrecht.nl.
(2)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands; National Institute for Public Health and the 
Environment, Bilthoven, Netherlands.
(3)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands.
(4)Utrecht Cornea Research Group, Department of Ophthalmology, University 
Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands.

PURPOSE: To determine the age-specific incidence and prevalence of keratoconus 
in the modern era of diagnostics.
DESIGN: Epidemiologic study.
PARTICIPANTS: Total of 4.4 million patients from a mandatory health insurance 
database.
METHODS: Data were extracted from the largest health insurance provider in the 
Netherlands. Patients aged 10-40 years were defined as the relevant age category 
for newly diagnosed keratoconus and the annual incidence of newly diagnosed 
keratoconus was determined. The prevalence of keratoconus was estimated based on 
the annual incidence, mean age at diagnosis, and average life expectancy. Main 
outcome measure was the annual incidence and prevalence of keratoconus.
RESULTS: The annual incidence of keratoconus was 1:7500 in the relevant age 
category (13.3 cases per 100 000, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 11.6-15.2) and 
the estimated prevalence of keratoconus in the general population was 1:375 (265 
cases per 100 000, 95% CI: 260-270). These values are 5-fold to 10-fold higher 
than previously reported values in population studies. The mean age at diagnosis 
was 28.3 years and 60.6% of diagnosed patients were male.
CONCLUSIONS: Both the annual incidence and the prevalence of keratoconus were 
5-fold to 10-fold higher than previously reported.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2016.12.015
PMID: 28039037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. BMJ Open. 2016 Dec 29;6(12):e012248. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-012248.

How long do patients with chronic disease expect to live? A systematic review of 
the literature.

Hole B(1), Salem J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Renal Medicine, Southmead Hospital, Bristol, UK.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To systematically identify and summarise the literature on perceived 
life expectancy among individuals with non-cancer chronic disease.
SETTING: Published and grey literature up to and including September 2016 where 
adults with non-cancer chronic disease were asked to estimate their own life 
expectancy.
PARTICIPANTS: From 6837 screened titles, 9 articles were identified that met 
prespecified criteria for inclusion. Studies came from the UK, Netherlands and 
USA. A total of 729 participants were included (heart failure (HF) 573; chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) 89; end-stage renal failure 62; chronic 
kidney disease (CKD) 5). No papers reporting on other lung diseases, 
neurodegenerative disease or cirrhosis were found.
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: All measures of self-estimated life 
expectancy were accepted. Self-estimated life expectancy was compared, where 
available, with observed survival, physician-estimated life expectancy and 
model-estimated life expectancy. Meta-analysis was not conducted due to the 
heterogeneity of the patient groups and study methodologies.
RESULTS: Among patients with HF, median self-estimated life expectancy was 40% 
longer than predicted by a validated model. Outpatients receiving haemodialysis 
were more optimistic about prognosis than their nephrologists and overestimated 
their chances of surviving 5 years. Patients with HF and COPD were approximately 
three times more likely to die in the next year than they predicted. Data 
available for patients with CKD were of insufficient quality to draw 
conclusions.
CONCLUSIONS: Individuals with chronic disease may have unrealistically 
optimistic expectations of their prognosis. More research is needed to 
understand how perceived life expectancy affects behaviour. Meanwhile, 
clinicians should attempt to identify each patient's prognostic preferences and 
provide information in a way that they can understand and use to inform their 
decisions.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42015020732.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-012248
PMCID: PMC5223727
PMID: 28039288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.541. Neuro Oncol. 2017 Jul 1;19(7):897-907. doi: 10.1093/neuonc/now250.

Impaired health-related quality of life in meningioma patients-a systematic 
review.

Zamanipoor Najafabadi AH(1), Peeters MCM(1), Dirven L(1), Lobatto DJ(1), Groen 
JL(1), Broekman MLD(1), Peerdeman SM(1), Peul WC(1), Taphoorn MJB(1), van Furth 
WR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands; Department of Neurology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, 
The Netherlands; Department of Neurosurgery, Utrecht Medical Center, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands; Department of Neurosurgery, VU Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands; Department of Neurosurgery, Medical Center Haaglanden, The Hague, 
The Netherlands; Department of Neurology, Medical Center Haaglanden, The Hague, 
The Netherlands.

While surgical and radiotherapeutic improvements increased life expectancy of 
meningioma patients, little is known about these patients' health-related 
quality of life (HRQoL). Therefore, the objectives of this systematic review 
were to assess HRQoL in meningioma patients, the methodological quality of the 
used questionnaires (COSMIN criteria), and the reporting level of 
patient-reported outcomes (PROs) in the included studies (International Society 
of Quality of Life Research criteria).Nineteen articles met our inclusion 
criteria. HRQoL was measured with 13 different questionnaires, 3 validated in 
meningioma patients. According to our predefined cutoff, HRQoL data were 
reported sufficiently in 5 out of 19 studies. Both findings hamper 
interpretation of the PRO results.In general, meningioma patients reported 
clinically worse HRQoL than healthy controls. Although meningioma patients had 
better HRQoL than glioma patients, this difference was not clinically relevant. 
Radiotherapy seemed to improve some domains of HRQoL in the short term, while 
HRQoL decreased to pre-radiotherapy levels in the long term. Tumor resection 
increased HRQoL, but long-term follow-up showed persistent reduced HRQoL 
