results confirm that older adults are sexually active, and that factors 
associated with sexual activity are different for men and women. HIV among women 
and chronic conditions among men are areas of intervention to improve sexual 
activity in older people.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rhm.2016.11.004
PMID: 28024673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Oral Oncol. 2017 Jan;64:22-26. doi: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2016.11.014. Epub
 2016 Dec 1.

Healthy life expectancy of oral squamous cell carcinoma patients aged 75years 
and older.

Yamada SI(1), Kurita H(2), Tomioka T(2), Ohta R(2), Yoshimura N(2), Nishimaki 
F(2), Koyama Y(2), Kondo E(2), Kamata T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dentistry and Oral Surgery, Shinshu University School of 
Medicine, 3-1-1, Asahi, Matsumoto 390-8621, Japan. Electronic address: 
yshinshin@shinshu-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Dentistry and Oral Surgery, Shinshu University School of 
Medicine, 3-1-1, Asahi, Matsumoto 390-8621, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: Healthy life expectancy, an extension of the concept of life 
expectancy, is a summary measure of population health that takes into account 
the mortality and morbidity of a population. The aim of the present study was to 
retrospectively analyze the self-reliance survival times of oral squamous cell 
carcinoma (OSCC) patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: One hundred and twelve patients aged 75years or older 
with primary OSCC were included and examined at Shinshu University Hospital. To 
investigate healthy life expectancy, OSCC patients older than 75years were 
divided into 3 groups: 75-79, 80-84, and older than 85years. The Kaplan-Meier 
method was used to estimate the median times of healthy life expectancy. The 
Log-rank test was used to test significant differences between actual curves.
RESULTS: The median self-reliance survival times of patients aged 75-79, 80-84, 
and older than 85years were 5.7, 1.6, and 1.4years, respectively. Most patients 
with early stage cancers underwent curative treatments and showed a health 
expectancy of more than 5years. In patients with advanced cancers, health 
expectancy was poor (less than one year), except among patients aged 75-79years 
who underwent standard treatments.
CONCLUSIONS: It seems that in patients with advanced cancers, health expectancy 
was poor (less than 1year), except among patients aged 75-79years who underwent 
standard treatments. In elderly patients, healthy life expectancy (self-reliance 
survival time) may be one of the measures of patient prognosis as well as 
overall survival times.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2016.11.014
PMID: 28024720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. World Neurosurg. 2017 Mar;99:533-542. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2016.12.068. Epub
2016  Dec 23.

Efficacy and Complications of Endoscopic Skull Base Surgery for Giant Pituitary 
Adenomas.

Yano S(1), Hide T(2), Shinojima N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Faculty of Life Sciences, Kumamoto University 
Graduate School, Kumamoto, Japan. Electronic address: yanos@kumamoto-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Faculty of Life Sciences, Kumamoto University 
Graduate School, Kumamoto, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: We report surgical results and complications of endoscopic endonasal 
skull base surgery for giant pituitary adenomas.
METHODS: This study included 34 pituitary adenomas >40 mm treated by endoscopic 
endonasal skull base surgery between 2002 and 2015. Removal rates, symptoms, and 
complications were analyzed by direction of tumor extension.
RESULTS: Average tumor size was 45.5 mm. Near-total resection was achieved in 16 
of 34 (47.1%) cases. Near-total resection was achieved significantly more often 
in anterior extension types and round tumor in superior extension types compared 
with multiple extension types. The average residual amount in 18 partial 
resection cases was 30.2% of preoperative volume, with no significant difference 
between groups. Regrowth after partial resection occurred in 8 cases, but 
repeated surgery or stereotactic radiotherapy controlled tumor growth and 
improved symptoms. Postoperative improvement of visual field deficits was 
achieved in 23 of 25 (92.0%) cases. Postoperative complications included visual 
deterioration (n = 1), cerebrospinal fluid leakage (n = 2), and cerebral 
infarction secondary to perforator injury (n = 2). Symptomatic intratumoral 
hemorrhage occurred in 1 multiple extension type.
CONCLUSIONS: Endoscopic endonasal skull base surgery enables less invasive and 
safer removal of various extension types of giant pituitary adenomas. 
Preservation of visual function is essential. Two-stage surgery or partial 
resection with additional treatments is possible without complications if a 
sufficient amount of resection is performed. In cases in which insufficient 
resection may be expected, alternative treatment, including 
combined-simultaneous resection, should be considered.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2016.12.068
PMID: 28024972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. J Gastrointest Cancer. 2017 Mar;48(1):58-65. doi: 10.1007/s12029-016-9907-4.

Cost Effectiveness of Metal Stents in Relieving Obstructive Jaundice in Patients 
with Pancreatic Cancer.

Martinez JM(1), Anene A(2), Bentley TG(2), Cangelosi MJ(3), Meckley LM(4), 
Ortendahl JD(2), Montero AJ(5).

Author information:
(1)University of Miami Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, Miami, FL, USA. 
michael.cangelosi@bsci.com.
(2)Partnership for Health Analytic Research, LLC, Beverly Hills, CA, USA.
(3)Boston Scientific Corporation, Marlborough, MA, USA.
(4)Shire PLC, Dublin, Ireland.
(5)Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Taussig Cancer Institute, Cleveland, OH, USA.

BACKGROUND: ASGE and ESGE guidelines recommend endoscopic metal stent placement 
for pancreatic carcinoma patients with biliary obstruction, and whose estimated 
life expectancy is greater than 6 months. Because median overall survival (OS) 
of metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma until recently has been less than 
6 months, plastic biliary stents were preferentially placed rather than metal 
due to the greater upfront cost of the latter. Recent advances in the treatment 
of metastatic pancreatic cancer have extended median OS beyond the 6-month 
range. Given this improvement in OS, we performed a cost-effectiveness analysis 
of initial metal biliary versus plastic stent placement in metastatic pancreatic 
cancer patients with biliary obstruction.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to predict lifetime costs, 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and cost effectiveness of metal compared 
with plastic stents. Adult patients entered the model with locally advanced 
cancer and underwent endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) with 
placement of metal or plastic stents. A targeted literature search was conducted 
to identify published sources, which were used to estimate clinical, cost, 
utility, and event rate inputs to the model. Results were estimated from the 
third-party payer perspective in 2012 US dollars per QALY. One-way and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted to assess the impact on model 
outcomes resulting from uncertainty among inputs.
RESULTS: Our analysis found that initial placement of metal stents was more cost 
effective than plastic biliary stents with lower overall costs due to lower 
restenting rates while at the same time associated with a better quality of 
life. Based on model projections, placement of metal stents could save 
approximately $1450 per patient over a lifetime, while simultaneously improving 
quality of life. These findings were robust in sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Placement of metal biliary stents at initial onset of obstructive 
jaundice in adult patients with metastatic pancreatic carcinoma with an expected 
OS greater than 6 months was found to be a more cost-effective strategy than 
plastic stents. These results reinforce guidelines' suggestions for metal stent 
placement.

DOI: 10.1007/s12029-016-9907-4
PMID: 28025817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2017 Jan;23(1):64-73. doi:
10.18553/jmcp.2017.23.1.64.

Cost-Effectiveness of Treatment Sequences of Chemotherapies and Targeted 
Biologics for Elderly Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Patients.

Parikh RC(1), Du XL(2), Robert MO(3), Lairson DR(3).

Author information:
(1)1 RTI Health Solutions, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, and Division 
of Management, Policy, and Community Health, School of Public Health, University 
of Texas Health Science Center at Houston.
(2)2 Division of Management, Policy, and Community Health and Division of 
Epidemiology, Human Genetics, and Environmental Sciences, School of Public 
Health, University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston.
(3)3 Division of Management, Policy, and Community Health, School of Public 
Health, University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston.

BACKGROUND: Treatment patterns for metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) patients 
have changed considerably over the last decade with the introduction of new 
chemotherapies and targeted biologics. These treatments are often administered 
in various sequences with limited evidence regarding their cost-effectiveness.
OBJECTIVE: To conduct a pharmacoeconomic evaluation of commonly administered 
treatment sequences among elderly mCRC patients.
METHODS: A probabilistic discrete event simulation model assuming Weibull 
distribution was developed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the following 
common treatment sequences: (a) first-line oxaliplatin/irinotecan followed by 
second-line oxaliplatin/irinotecan + bevacizumab (OI-OIB); (b) first-line 
oxaliplatin/irinotecan + bevacizumab followed by second-line 
oxaliplatin/irinotecan + bevacizumab (OIB-OIB); (c) OI-OIB followed by a 
third-line targeted biologic (OI-OIB-TB); and (d) OIB-OIB followed by a 
third-line targeted biologic (OIB-OIB-TB). Input parameters for the model were 
primarily obtained from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results-Medicare 
linked dataset for incident mCRC patients aged 65 years and older diagnosed from 
January 2004 through December 2009. A probabilistic sensitivity analysis was 
performed to account for parameter uncertainty. Costs (2014 U.S. dollars) and 
effectiveness were discounted at an annual rate of 3%.
RESULTS: In the base case analyses, at the willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold of 
$100,000/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained, the treatment sequence 
OIB-OIB (vs. OI-OIB) was not cost-effective with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) per patient of $119,007/QALY; OI-OIB-TB (vs. 
OIB-OIB) was dominated; and OIB-OIB-TB (vs. OIB-OIB) was not cost-effective with 
an ICER of $405,857/QALY. Results similar to the base case analysis were 
obtained assuming log-normal distribution. Cost-effectiveness acceptability 
curves derived from a probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that at a WTP of 
$100,000/QALY gained, sequence OI-OIB was 34% cost-effective, followed by 
OIB-OIB (31%), OI-OIB-TB (20%), and OIB-OIB-TB (15%).
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, survival increases marginally with the addition of 
targeted biologics, such as bevacizumab, at first line and third line at 
substantial costs. Treatment sequences with bevacizumab at first line and 
targeted biologics at third line may not be cost-effective at the commonly used 
threshold of $100,000/QALY gained, but a marginal decrease in the cost of 
bevacizumab may make treatment sequences with first-line bevacizumab 
cost-effective. Future economic evaluations should validate the study results 
using parameters from ongoing clinical trials.
DISCLOSURES: This study was supported in part by a grant from the Agency for 
Healthcare Research and Quality (R01-HS018956) and in part by a grant from the 
Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas (RP130051), which were 
obtained by Du. The authors report no conflicts of interest. Study concept and 
design were primarily contributed by Parikh, along with the other authors. All 
authors participated in data collection, and Parikh took the lead in data 
interpretation and analysis, along with Lairson and Morgan, with assistance from 
Du. The manuscript was written primarily by Parikh, along with Lairson, Morgan, 
and Du, and revised by Parikh.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2017.23.1.64
PMCID: PMC10397948
PMID: 28025930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: This study was supported in part by a grant from 
the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (R01-HS018956) and in part by a 
grant from the Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas (RP130051), 
which were obtained by Du. The authors report no conflicts of interest. Study 
concept and design were primarily contributed by Parikh, along with the other 
authors. All authors participated in data collection, and Parikh took the lead 
in data interpretation and analysis, along with Lairson and Morgan, with 
assistance from Du. The manuscript was written primarily by Parikh, along with 
Lairson, Morgan, and Du, and revised by Parikh.


504. Ann Neurol. 2017 Mar;81(3):355-368. doi: 10.1002/ana.24864. Epub 2017 Feb
17.

Emerging therapies and challenges in spinal muscular atrophy.

Farrar MA(1), Park SB(2), Vucic S(3), Carey KA(1), Turner BJ(4), Gillingwater 
TH(5), Swoboda KJ(6), Kiernan MC(2).

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Paediatrics, School of Women's and Children's Health, UNSW 
Medicine, The University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.
(2)Brain & Mind Centre and Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, Sydney, 
Australia.
(3)Department of Neurology, Westmead Hospital and Western Clinical School, 
University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(4)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Australia.
(5)Euan MacDonald Centre for Motor Neurone Disease Research, University of 
Edinburg, Edinburg, United Kingdom.
(6)Center for Human Genetics Research, Department of Neurology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.

Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a hereditary neurodegenerative disease with 
severity ranging from progressive infantile paralysis and premature death (type 
I) to limited motor neuron loss and normal life expectancy (type IV). Without 
disease-modifying therapies, the impact is profound for patients and their 
families. Improved understanding of the molecular basis of SMA, disease 
pathogenesis, natural history, and recognition of the impact of standardized 
care on outcomes has yielded progress toward the development of novel 
therapeutic strategies and are summarized. Therapeutic strategies in the 
pipeline are appraised, ranging from SMN1 gene replacement to modulation of SMN2 
encoded transcripts, to neuroprotection, to an expanding repertoire of 
peripheral targets, including muscle. With the advent of preliminary trial data, 
it can be reasonably anticipated that the SMA treatment landscape will transform 
significantly. Advancement in presymptomatic diagnosis and screening programs 
will be critical, with pilot newborn screening studies underway to facilitate 
preclinical diagnosis. The development of disease-modifying therapies will 
necessitate monitoring programs to determine the long-term impact, careful 
evaluation of combined treatments, and further acceleration of improvements in 
supportive care. In advance of upcoming clinical trial results, we consider the 
challenges and controversies related to the implementation of novel therapies 
for all patients and set the scene as the field prepares to enter an era of 
novel therapies. Ann Neurol 2017;81:355-368.

© 2016 The Authors. Annals of Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on 
behalf of American Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.24864
PMCID: PMC5396275
PMID: 28026041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2017 Nov;26(6). doi: 10.1111/ecc.12624. Epub 2016
Dec  27.

New oral targeted therapies for metastatic breast cancer disrupt the traditional 
patients' management-A healthcare providers' view.

Martin E(1)(2), Pourtau L(1)(2), Di Palma M(3), Delaloge S(4).

Author information:
(1)Université Paris-Sud/Paris Saclay, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France.
(2)Laboratoire EA 1610, Faculté des sciences d'Orsay, Orsay, France.
(3)Département Ambulatoire, Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France.
(4)Département de Médecine Oncologique, Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France.

Although a cure still cannot be expected for metastatic breast cancer, thanks to 
progressive advances in treatments, life expectancy has been increasing over the 
past 15 years. This study aims to present the impact on the organisation of 
patients' management of newly released oral targeted therapies dedicated to 
metastatic breast cancer and the obstacles to their diffusion. Our work is based 
on the analysis of 40 semi-structured interviews, conducted with oncology 
healthcare professionals in three regions of France (2015-2016). It shows three 
main results. First, the prescription of an oral targeted therapy requires 
greater collaboration between healthcare professionals than traditional 
intravenous oncology drugs, which may be challenging. Second, there remain many 
barriers to the dissemination of oral targeted therapies. Third, taking an oral 
targeted therapy keeps the patient away from the hospital facility and asks for 
a strong therapeutic alliance. The management of oral targeted therapies is 
time-consuming for medical oncologists and disrupts the traditional care 
pathway. The multiplication of actors involved in patients' management 
reinforces the slowdown in the deployment and acceptance of therapeutic 
innovations. More players equal a higher risk of slowdown. Questioning and 
re-designing hospital organisation and management modalities towards this type 
of care are critical.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ecc.12624
PMID: 28026083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Insect Sci. 2018 Jun;25(3):409-417. doi: 10.1111/1744-7917.12432. Epub 2017
Feb  16.

Effects of temperature on fitness costs in chlorpyrifos-resistant brown 
planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens (Hemiptera: Delphacidae).

Yang BJ(1)(2), Liu ML(1), Zhang YX(1), Liu ZW(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Integrated Management of Crop Diseases and Pests (Ministry 
of Education), College of Plant Protection, Nanjing Agricultural University, 
Nanjing, China.
(2)Rice Technology Research and Development Center, China National Rice Research 
Institute, Hangzhou, China.

Insecticide resistance is inevitable if an insecticide is widely used to control 
insect pests. Fortunately, the resistance-associated fitness costs often give 
chances to manage resistances. In most cases, the fitness cost in resistant 
insects is often evaluated under laboratory conditions for insect development, 
which limits its practical application in pest control in the field. In a 
laboratory population R9 with 253-fold resistance to chlorpyrifos after 
nine-generation selection with chlorpyrifos, the relative fitness was only 0.206 
under laboratory conditions (25°C, humidity 70%-80% and 16 h light/8 h dark 
photoperiod), when compared to S9, a susceptible counterpart (resistance ratio = 
2.25-fold) from the same origin as R9 but without any selection with 
insecticides. Temperatures varied the resistance-associated fitness costs, with 
enhanced costs at high temperatures and reduced costs at low temperatures, such 
as 0.174 at 32°C and 0.527 at 18°C. The copulation rate and fecundity were two 
key factors for the reduced costs at low temperatures. Another finding was that 
R9 individuals needed much more time to recover from heat shock than that of S9, 
but R9 and S9 individuals were similarly sensitive to cold shock. The low 
fitness cost at low temperatures would increase the overwintering population, 
which might further increase risks of rapid development and widespread 
distribution of chlorpyrifos resistance in Nilaparvata lugens.

© 2016 Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/1744-7917.12432
PMID: 28026125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Eur J Cancer. 2017 Feb;72:78-83. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2016.11.019. Epub 2016
Dec  24.

Estimation of net survival for cancer patients: Relative survival setting more 
robust to some assumption violations than cause-specific setting, a sensitivity 
analysis on empirical data.

Schaffar R(1), Rachet B(2), Belot A(2), Woods LM(2).

Author information:
(1)Geneva Cancer Registry, Global Health Institute, University of Geneva, 
Geneva, Switzerland; Cancer Research UK Cancer Survival Group, Department of 
Non-Communicable Disease Epidemiology, Faculty of Epidemiology and Population 
Health, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom. 
Electronic address: robin.schaffar@unige.ch.
(2)Cancer Research UK Cancer Survival Group, Department of Non-Communicable 
Disease Epidemiology, Faculty of Epidemiology and Population Health, London 
School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom.

Net survival is the survival that would be observed if the only possible 
underlying cause of death was the disease under study. It can be estimated with 
either cause-specific or relative survival data settings, if the informative 
censoring is properly considered. However, net survival estimators are prone to 
specific biases related to the data setting itself. We examined which data 
setting was the most robust against violation of key assumptions (erroneous 
cause of death and inappropriate life tables). We identified 4285 women in the 
Geneva Cancer Registry, diagnosed with breast, colorectal, lung cancer and 
melanoma between 1981 and 1991 and estimated net survival up to 20 years using 
cause-specific and relative survival settings. We used weights to tackle 
informative censoring in both settings and performed sensitivity analyses to 
evaluate the impact of misclassification of cause of death in the cause-specific 
setting or of using inappropriate life tables on net survival estimates in the 
relative survival setting. For all the four cancers, net survival was highest 
when using the cause-specific setting and the absolute difference between the 
two estimators increased with time since diagnosis. The sensitivity analysis 
showed that (i) the use of different life tables did not compromise net survival 
estimation in the relative survival setting, whereas (ii) a small level of 
misclassification for the cause of death led to a large change in the net 
survival estimate in the cause-specific setting. The relative survival setting 
was more robust to the above assumptions violations and is therefore recommended 
for estimation of net survival.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2016.11.019
PMCID: PMC6191025
PMID: 28027519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors have declared 
no conflict of interest.


508. Gait Posture. 2017 Feb;52:287-292. doi: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2016.12.002. Epub
 2016 Dec 2.

Automatic classification of gait in children with early-onset ataxia or 
developmental coordination disorder and controls using inertial sensors.

Mannini A(1), Martinez-Manzanera O(2), Lawerman TF(3), Trojaniello D(4), Croce 
UD(5), Sival DA(6), Maurits NM(3), Sabatini AM(1).

Author information:
(1)The BioRobotics Institute, Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna, Pisa, Italy.
(2)Department of Neurology, University Medical Center Groningen, University of 
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands; Graduate School of Medical Sciences, 
Research School of Behavioral and Cognitive Neurosciences, University of 
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
octaviomtz@hotmail.com.
(3)Department of Neurology, University Medical Center Groningen, University of 
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands; Graduate School of Medical Sciences, 
Research School of Behavioral and Cognitive Neurosciences, University of 
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(4)Information Engineer Unit, POLCOMING Department, University of Sassari, Viale 
Mancini 5, 07100 Sassari, Italy; e-Services for Life and Health, San Raffaele 
Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy.
(5)Information Engineer Unit, POLCOMING Department, University of Sassari, Viale 
Mancini 5, 07100 Sassari, Italy; Interuniversity Centre of Bioengineering of the 
Human Neuromusculoskeletal System, Sassari, Italy.
(6)Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Research School of Behavioral and 
Cognitive Neurosciences, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands; 
Department of Pediatrics, University Medical Center Groningen, University of 
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.

Early-Onset Ataxia (EOA) and Developmental Coordination Disorder (DCD) are two 
conditions that affect coordination in children. Phenotypic identification of 
impaired coordination plays an important role in their diagnosis. Gait is one of 
the tests included in rating scales that can be used to assess motor 
coordination. A practical problem is that the resemblance between EOA and DCD 
symptoms can hamper their diagnosis. In this study we employed inertial sensors 
and a supervised classifier to obtain an automatic classification of the 
condition of participants. Data from shank and waist mounted inertial 
measurement units were used to extract features during gait in children 
diagnosed with EOA or DCD and age-matched controls. We defined a set of features 
from the recorded signals and we obtained the optimal features for 
classification using a backward sequential approach. We correctly classified 
80.0%, 85.7%, and 70.0% of the control, DCD and EOA children, respectively. 
Overall, the automatic classifier correctly classified 78.4% of the 
participants, which is slightly better than the phenotypic assessment of gait by 
two pediatric neurologists (73.0%). These results demonstrate that automatic 
classification employing signals from inertial sensors obtained during gait 
maybe used as a support tool in the differential diagnosis of EOA and DCD. 
Furthermore, future extension of the classifier's test domains may help to 
further improve the diagnostic accuracy of pediatric coordination impairment. In 
this sense, this study may provide a first step towards incorporating a 
clinically objective and viable biomarker for identification of EOA and DCD.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2016.12.002
PMID: 28027529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Circulation. 2017 Jan 3;135(1):5-6. doi: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.116.022148.

Putting the Acute Coronary Syndrome in Context After 80 Years of Age.

Alexander KP(1).

Author information:
(1)From Duke Clinical Research Institute, Durham, NC. karen.alexander@duke.edu.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.116.022148
PMID: 28028059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Stroke. 2017 Feb;48(2):379-387. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.116.014735. Epub 2016
Dec  27.

Cost-Effectiveness of Solitaire Stent Retriever Thrombectomy for Acute Ischemic 
Stroke: Results From the SWIFT-PRIME Trial (Solitaire With the Intention for 
Thrombectomy as Primary Endovascular Treatment for Acute Ischemic Stroke).

Shireman TI(1), Wang K(1), Saver JL(1), Goyal M(1), Bonafé A(1), Diener HC(1), 
Levy EI(1), Pereira VM(1), Albers GW(1), Cognard C(1), Hacke W(1), Jansen O(1), 
Jovin TG(1), Mattle HP(1), Nogueira RG(1), Siddiqui AH(1), Yavagal DR(1), Devlin 
TG(1), Lopes DK(1), Reddy VK(1), du Mesnil de Rochemont R(1), Jahan R(1), Vilain 
KA(1), House J(1), Lee JM(1), Cohen DJ(2); SWIFT-PRIME Investigators.

Author information:
(1)From the Center for Gerontology and Health Care Research, Brown University 
School of Public Health, Providence, RI (T.I.S.); Department of Cardiovascular 
Research (K.W., K.A.V., J.H.) and Department of Cardiology (D.J.C.), Saint 
Luke's Mid America Heart Institute, Kansas City, MO; Department of Neurology and 
Comprehensive Stroke Center (J.L.S.) and Division of Interventional 
Neuroradiology (R.J.), University of California Los Angeles; Departments of 
Radiology and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada 
(M.G.); Department of Neuroradiology, Hôpital Gui-de-Chauliac, Montpellier, 
France (A.B.); Department of Neurology, University Hospital of University 
Duisburg-Essen, Germany (H.-C.D.); Department of Neurosurgery, State University 
of New York at Buffalo (E.I.L.); Division of Neuroradiology and Division of 
Neurosurgery, Department of Medical Imaging and Department of Surgery, Toronto 
Western Hospital, University Health Network, University of Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada (V.M.P.); Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, CA (G.W.A.); Department of Diagnostic and 
Therapeutic Neuroradiology, University Hospital of Toulouse, France (C.C.); 
Department of Neurology, University of Heidelberg, Germany (W.H.); Department of 
Radiology and Neuroradiology, Christian-Albrechts-University Kiel, Germany 
(O.J.); Department of Neurology, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, PA 
(T.G.J., V.K.R.); Department of Neurology, Inselspital, University of Bern, 
Switzerland (H.P.M.); Marcus Stroke and Neuroscience Center, Grady Memorial 
Hospital, Department of Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
GA (R.G.N.); Department of Neurosurgery, Toshiba Stroke and Vascular Research 
Center, University at Buffalo State University of New York at Buffalo (A.H.S.); 
Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, University of Miami Miller School of 
Medicine, Jackson Memorial Hospital, FL (D.R.Y.); Division of Neurology, 
Erlanger Hospital at University of Tennessee, Chattanooga (T.G.D.); Department 
of Neurosurgery, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL (D.K.L.); Institute 
of Neuroradiology, Klinikum der Goethe-Universität, Frankfurt, Germany 
(R.d.M.d.R.); Department of Neurology, Washington University in Saint Louis, MO 
(J.-M.L.); and Department of Medicine, University of Missouri-Kansas City School 
of Medicine (D.J.C.).
(2)From the Center for Gerontology and Health Care Research, Brown University 
School of Public Health, Providence, RI (T.I.S.); Department of Cardiovascular 
Research (K.W., K.A.V., J.H.) and Department of Cardiology (D.J.C.), Saint 
Luke's Mid America Heart Institute, Kansas City, MO; Department of Neurology and 
Comprehensive Stroke Center (J.L.S.) and Division of Interventional 
Neuroradiology (R.J.), University of California Los Angeles; Departments of 
Radiology and Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada 
(M.G.); Department of Neuroradiology, Hôpital Gui-de-Chauliac, Montpellier, 
France (A.B.); Department of Neurology, University Hospital of University 
Duisburg-Essen, Germany (H.-C.D.); Department of Neurosurgery, State University 
of New York at Buffalo (E.I.L.); Division of Neuroradiology and Division of 
Neurosurgery, Department of Medical Imaging and Department of Surgery, Toronto 
Western Hospital, University Health Network, University of Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada (V.M.P.); Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, CA (G.W.A.); Department of Diagnostic and 
Therapeutic Neuroradiology, University Hospital of Toulouse, France (C.C.); 
Department of Neurology, University of Heidelberg, Germany (W.H.); Department of 
Radiology and Neuroradiology, Christian-Albrechts-University Kiel, Germany 
(O.J.); Department of Neurology, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, PA 
(T.G.J., V.K.R.); Department of Neurology, Inselspital, University of Bern, 
Switzerland (H.P.M.); Marcus Stroke and Neuroscience Center, Grady Memorial 
Hospital, Department of Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
GA (R.G.N.); Department of Neurosurgery, Toshiba Stroke and Vascular Research 
Center, University at Buffalo State University of New York at Buffalo (A.H.S.); 
Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, University of Miami Miller School of 
Medicine, Jackson Memorial Hospital, FL (D.R.Y.); Division of Neurology, 
Erlanger Hospital at University of Tennessee, Chattanooga (T.G.D.); Department 
of Neurosurgery, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL (D.K.L.); Institute 
of Neuroradiology, Klinikum der Goethe-Universität, Frankfurt, Germany 
(R.d.M.d.R.); Department of Neurology, Washington University in Saint Louis, MO 
(J.-M.L.); and Department of Medicine, University of Missouri-Kansas City School 
of Medicine (D.J.C.). dcohen@saint-lukes.org.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Clinical trials have demonstrated improved 90-day 
outcomes for patients with acute ischemic stroke treated with stent retriever 
thrombectomy plus tissue-type plasminogen activator (SST+tPA) compared with tPA. 
Previous studies suggested that this strategy may be cost-effective, but models 
were derived from pooled data and older assumptions.
METHODS: In this prospective economic substudy conducted alongside the 
SWIFT-PRIME trial (Solitaire With the Intention for Thrombectomy as Primary 
Endovascular Treatment for Acute Ischemic Stroke), in-trial costs were measured 
for patients using detailed medical resource utilization and hospital billing 
data. Utility weights were assessed at 30 and 90 days using the EuroQol-5 
dimension questionnaire. Post-trial costs and life-expectancy were estimated for 
each surviving patient using a model based on trial data and inputs derived from 
a contemporary cohort of ischemic stroke survivors.
RESULTS: Index hospitalization costs were $17 183 per patient higher for SST+tPA 
than for tPA ($45 761 versus $28 578; P<0.001), driven by initial procedure 
costs. Between discharge and 90 days, costs were $4904 per patient lower for 
SST+tPA than for tPA ($11 270 versus $16 174; P=0.014); total 90-day costs 
remained higher with SST+tPA ($57 031 versus $44 752; P<0.001). Higher utility 
values for SST+tPA led to higher in-trial quality-adjusted life years (0.131 
versus 0.105; P=0.005). In lifetime projections, SST+tPA was associated with 
substantial gains in quality-adjusted life years (6.79 versus 5.05), cost 
savings of $23 203 per patient and was economically dominant when compared with 
tPA in 90% of bootstrap replicates.
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with acute ischemic stroke enrolled in the 
SWIFT-PRIME trial, SST increased initial treatment costs, but was projected to 
improve quality-adjusted life-expectancy and reduce healthcare costs over a 
lifetime horizon compared with tPA.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique 
identifier: NCT01657461.

© 2016 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.116.014735
PMCID: PMC5461963
PMID: 28028150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures The University of California, 
Regents receives funding for Dr Saver’s services as a scientific consultant 
regarding trial design and conduct to Covidien and Stryker and is an employee of 
the University of California, which holds a patent on retriever devices for 
stroke. Dr Goyal serves as a consultant to Medtronic/Covidien, Stryker, 
Microvention and has a patent Systems of stroke diagnosis licensed to GE 
Healthcare. Drs Bonafe, Diener, Pereira, Hacke, Jansen, Mattle, and Lopes served 
as scientific consultants regarding trial design and conduct to 
Medtronic/Covidien. Dr Levy serves as a scientific consultant to 
Medtronic/Covidien, has shareholder/ownership interest with Intratech Medical 
Ltd, Blockade Medical LLC, has received fees from Abbott for carotid training, 
and has served as an expert witness for Renders Medical/Legal opinion. Dr Albers 
has an equity interest and is a consultant for iSchemaView, which provided the 
RAPID software and Core Laboratory services for the SWIFT-PRIME trial (Solitaire 
With the Intention for Thrombectomy as Primary Endovascular Treatment for Acute 
Ischemic Stroke) and has been a consultant for Medtronic. Dr Cognard serves as a 
scientific consultant to Medtronic/Covidien, Sequentiel, and Codman. Dr Jovin 
serves as a scientific consultant regarding trial design and conduct to 
Medtronic/Covidien and is on the advisory board for Silk Road Medical and 
Blockade Medical LLC. Dr Nogueira serves as a scientific consultant to 
Medtronic/Covidien, Stryker Neurovascular, and Penumbra. Dr Siddiqui has 
financial interests in StimSox, Valor Medical, Neuro Technology Investors, 
Cardinal Health, Medina Medical Systems, Buffalo Technology Partners, Inc, and 
International Medical Distribution Partners, serves as a consultant to Codman & 
Shurtleff, Inc, GuidePoint Global Consulting, Penumbra, Stryker, MicroVention, 
W.L. Gore & Associates, Three Rivers Medical, Corindus, Inc, Amnis Therapeutics, 
Ltd, CereVasc, LLC, Pulsar Vascular, The Stroke Project, Inc, Cerebrotech 
Medical Systems, Inc, Rapid Medical, Neuravi, Silk Road Medical, Rebound 
Medical, Intersocietal Accreditation Committee, Penumbra, 3D Separator trial, 
Covidien (Now Medtronic), and is part of the steering committee for SWIFT-PRIME 
and SWIFT DIRECT (Solitaire With the Intention for Thrombectomy Plus Intravenous 
t-PA Versus Direct Solitaire Stent-Retriever Thrombectomy in Acute Anterior 
Circulation Stroke) trials, MicroVention, FRED trial (Flow Redirection 
Intraluminal Device), CONFIDENCE study (Pivotal Study of the MicroVention, Inc, 
Carotid Artery Stent System Used in Conjunction With the Nanoparasol Embolic 
Protection System for the Treatment of Carotid Artery Stenosis in Patients at 
Elevated Risk for Adverse Events From Carotid Endarterectomy), LARGE trial 
(Long-Acting Beta Agonist Response by Genotype), POSITIVE trial (Perfusion 
Imaging Selection of Ischemic Stroke Patients for Endovascular Therapy), 
Penumbra COMPASS and INVEST (Minimally Invasive Endoscopic Surgery vs Medical 
Management in Supratentorial Intraparenchymal Hemorrhage) trials. Dr Yavagal 
serves as a scientific consultant to Medtronic/Covidien and Neuralanalytics, 
Inc. The University of California, Regents receives funding for Dr Jahan’s 
services as a scientific consultant regarding trial design and conduct to 
Medtronic/Covidien, and is an employee of the University of California, which 
holds a patent on retriever devices for stroke. The other authors report no 
conflicts.


511. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2017 Jan;56(1):68-76. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/kew328.  Epub 2016 Oct 22.

Patients' preferences and economic considerations play an important role in 
treatment decisions: a discrete choice experiment among rheumatologists.

Hifinger M(1)(2), Hiligsmann M(3)(4), Ramiro S(5), Severens JL(6)(7), Fautrel 
B(8), Watson V(9), Boonen A(3)(2).

Author information:
(1)CAPHRI Research Institute, Maastricht University monikahifinger@gmx.de.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Maastricht University Medical Centre.
(3)CAPHRI Research Institute, Maastricht University.
(4)Department of Health Services Research, Maastricht University, Maastricht.
(5)Department of Rheumatology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden.
(6)Institute for Health Policy and Management, Erasmus Rotterdam University, 
Rotterdam.
(7)iMTA-Institute of Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus Rotterdam 
University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(8)GRC 08, Pierre Louis Institute of Epidemiology and Public Health, AP-HP, 
Department of Rheumatology, Pitie Salpetriere Hospital Paris, Pierre et Marie 
Curie University, France and.
(9)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate to what extent rheumatologists consider economic aspects 
and patients' preferences when choosing drug treatments in patients with active 
RA.
METHODS: In a discrete choice experiment, rheumatologists were asked to choose 
between two unlabelled drug treatment options for a hypothetical RA patient with 
moderate disease activity who failed two synthetic DMARDs. Attributes and levels 
of drug treatments were selected based on existing literature, rheumatologists' 
opinion and expert consensus. This resulted in five attributes each described by 
three levels: efficacy (level of improvement and achieved state on DAS28), 
safety (probability of a serious adverse event), patients' preference (level of 
agreement), annual medication costs and cost-effectiveness (incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio). An efficient experimental design generated 14 
treatment choices and a random parameter logit model estimated the relative 
importance of attributes.
RESULTS: Sixty-three rheumatologists from the Netherlands contributed to the 
analysis; 44% were female and mean (sd) age was 49 (8) years. Drug efficacy had 
the strongest relative contribution to the drug choice (44%) followed by 
medication costs (24%), patients' preference (17%) and cost-effectiveness (14%). 
Patients' preferences were most relevant when patients disliked a proposed 
treatment. The risk of serious but uncommon or rare side effects only played a 
minor role in the treatment choice (1%).
CONCLUSION: In addition to drug efficacy, rheumatologists account for economic 
aspects and for patients' preferences when deciding on drugs. Decisions are more 
influenced by absolute costs than relative cost-effectiveness and by patients' 
disliking as opposed to favouring the treatment.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Society for Rheumatology. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/kew328
PMID: 28028156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Adv Clin Exp Med. 2016 Sep-Oct;25(5):901-906. doi: 10.17219/acem/62134.

Opinions of Old Age According to Residents of Polish Public Nursing Homes and 
Members of the Universities of the Third Age.

Cybulski M(1), Krajewska-Kułak E(1), Jamiołkowski J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Integrated Medical Care, Medical University of Bialystok, 
Poland.
(2)Department of Public Health, Medical University of Bialystok, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Statistical data from the turn of the 21st century shows a 
significant increase in the average human life span and, what follows, an 
extension of old age.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to become familiar with the opinions 
submitted by respondents regarding aging and old age, health problems connected 
with aging and preferred health behaviors.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The research was conducted between January 3rd 2013 and 
February 15th 2014 on a group of 200 residents of public nursing homes and 200 
members of the University of the Third Age using a questionnaire created by the 
authors.
RESULTS: Forty-two point five per cent of the residents of PNHs and 58.0% of the 
members of UTAs were of the opinion that old age can be a successful period of 
life. Sixty-one percent of all participants stated that the elderly are needed 
in society. According to respondents, the factor which was most important in 
delaying aging was an active lifestyle (80.0% of residents of PNH vs. 90.0% of 
UTA members).
CONCLUSIONS: Perceptions of elderly people by the seniors are different, complex 
and multidimensional. The perception of elderly people to society can variously 
affect (positively or negatively) quality of life in this age group. The results 
of the study showed small differences between the residents of public nursing 
homes and students of Universities of the Third Age in the perception of old 
age. There is a need to integrate seniors with younger generations in order to 
eliminate the stereotypes prevailing in society about older people.

DOI: 10.17219/acem/62134
PMID: 28028953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2017 Mar;65(3):e70-e75. doi: 10.1111/jgs.14711. Epub 2016
Dec  28.

Sense of Control in End-of-Life Decision-Making.

Romo RD(1)(2), Allison TA(2)(3), Smith AK(2)(4), Wallhagen MI(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiological Nursing, School of Nursing, University of 
California San Francisco, San Francisco, California.
(2)Division of Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California.
(3)Department of Family and Community Medicine, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California.
(4)Geriatrics, Palliative and Extended Care, San Francisco Veterans Affair 
Medical Center, San Francisco, California.

OBJECTIVES: To explore how older adults in the community with a limited life 
expectancy make healthcare decisions and the processes used when they are not in 
an acute crisis.
DESIGN: Grounded theory.
SETTING: Medical programs and geriatrics clinics at the University of 
California, San Francisco, and the San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center.
PARTICIPANTS: Community-dwelling adults aged 67 to 98 with a life expectancy of 
less than 1 year (N = 20).
MEASUREMENTS: In-depth semistructured interviews in participants' homes. 
Constant comparative analysis was used to develop codes and identify themes.
RESULTS: Participants generally delegated decisions to others, expressing their 
wishes by describing desired end-of-life outcomes and highlighting meaningful 
aspects of their lives. They did this in the belief that the delegate would make 
appropriate decisions on their behalf. In this way, participants were able to 
achieve a sense of control without being in control of decisions. Four themes 
emerged from the analysis that reflect the various approaches participants used 
to articulate their goals and maintain a sense of control: direct communication, 
third-party analogies, adaptive denial, and engaged avoidance.
CONCLUSION: These findings challenge the prevailing view of personal autonomy. 
These older adults suggest a path to decision-making that focuses on priorities 
and goals, allowing them to take a more-passive approach to decision-making 
while still maintaining a sense of control.

© 2016, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2016, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.14711
PMCID: PMC5357173
PMID: 28029695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors declared no 
potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or 
publication of this article.


514. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 28;11(12):e0168997. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0168997. 
eCollection 2016.

Quality Matters: Influences of Citrus Flush Physicochemical Characteristics on 
Population Dynamics of the Asian Citrus Psyllid (Hemiptera: Liviidae).

Sétamou M(1), Simpson CR(1), Alabi OJ(2), Nelson SD(1), Telagamsetty S(1), Jifon 
JL(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agriculture, Agribusiness and Environmental Sciences, Texas A&M 
University-Kingsville Citrus Center, Weslaco, Texas, United States of America.
(2)Department of Plant Pathology & Microbiology, Texas A&M AgriLife Research and 
Extension Center, Weslaco, Texas, United States of America.
(3)Department of Horticulture, Texas A&M AgriLife Research and Extension Center, 
Weslaco, Texas, United States of America.

Studies were conducted to relate the influence of the physical characteristics, 
leaf nutrient content and phloem sap amino acid concentration of citrus flush 
shoots on the densities of various Diaphorina citri life stages. Adult D. citri 
preferentially selected young shoots for feeding and numbers of D. citri 
immatures were positively correlated with flush shoot softness. Young flush 
shoots had higher concentrations of macro and micro nutrients relative to mature 
ones and this was associated with higher densities of all D. citri life stages. 
All D. citri life stages were positively correlated with higher nitrogen-carbon 
(N:C), nitrogen:sulfur (N:S) and nitrogen:calcium (N:Ca) ratios in leaf tissue, 
while densities of adults were negatively related to calcium, manganese and 
boron levels. Concentrations of total and essential amino acids were highest in 
phloem sap of young expanding flush shoots in both grapefruit and lemon, but 
dramatically declined as flush shoots matured. The sulfur-containing amino acids 
cystine, methionine and taurine occurred only in younger flush shoots. In 
contrast, cystathionine was only present in phloem sap of mature shoots. These 
results clearly indicate that young citrus flush shoots are a nutritionally 
richer diet relative to mature shoots, thus explaining their preference by D. 
citri for feeding and reproduction. Conversely, tissue hardness and the lower 
nutritional quality of mature flush shoots may limit oviposition and immature 
development. The data suggest that both physical characteristics and nutritional 
composition of flush shoots and their phloem sap are important factors 
regulating host colonization and behavior of D. citri, and this interaction can 
impact the dynamics and spread of HLB in citrus groves.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0168997
PMCID: PMC5193449
PMID: 28030637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


515. JAMA. 2017 Jan 3;317(1):25-26. doi: 10.1001/jama.2016.17335.

Social Determinants of Health: Caveats and Nuances.

Fuchs VR(1).

Author information:
(1)Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research (SIEPR), Stanford University, 
Stanford, California.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2016.17335
PMID: 28030707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Ann Agric Environ Med. 2016 Dec 23;23(4):598-603. doi:
10.5604/12321966.1226853.

Years of life lost of inhabitants of rural areas in Poland due to premature 
mortality caused by external reasons of death 1999-2012.

Bryła M(1), Maniecka-Bryła I(2), Burzyńska M(2), Pikala M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, Chair of Social and Preventive Medicine, 
Medical University, Lodz, Poland.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Chair of Social and Preventive 
Medicine, Medical University, Lodz, Poland.

INTRODUCTION: External causes of death are the third most common causes of 
death, after cardiovascular diseases and malignant neoplasms, in inhabitants of 
Poland. External causes of death pose the greatest threat to people aged 5-44, 
which results in a great number of years of life lost.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study is the analysis of years of life lost due to 
external causes of death among rural inhabitants in Poland, particularly due to 
traffic accidents and suicides.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study material included a database created on the 
basis of 2,100,785 certificates of rural inhabitants in Poland in the period 
1999-2012. The SEYLLp (Standard Expected Years of Life Lost per living person) 
and the SEYLLd (per death) indices were used to determine years of life lost due 
to external causes of death. Joinpoint models were used to analyze time trends.
RESULTS: In the period 1999-2012, 151,037 rural inhabitants died due to external 
causes, including 27.2% due to traffic accidents and 25.2% due to suicides. In 
2012, the SEYLLp was 1,817 per 100,000 males and 298 per 100,000 females. Among 
males, suicides (SEYLLp = 633 years per 100,000) and traffic accidents (SEYLLp = 
473 years per 100,000) contributed to the largest number of years of life lost. 
Among females, SEYLLp values were: 109 years due to traffic accidents and 69 
years due to suicides (per 100,000). Among males, SEYLLp values started to 
decrease in 2008 at the average annual rate of 3.2%. In the group of females in 
the period 1999-2012, SEYLLp values were decreasing by 2.4% per year.
CONCLUSIONS: The decreasing trend of the number of lost years of life due to 
external causes among rural inhabitants does not apply to suicides among men. 
The SEYLLp due to this group of causes has been steadily increasing since 1999. 
Analysis of the years of life lost focuses on the social and economic aspects of 
premature mortality due to external causes.

DOI: 10.5604/12321966.1226853
PMID: 28030930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. J Biomed Semantics. 2016 Dec 28;7(1):67. doi: 10.1186/s13326-016-0109-6.

tESA: a distributional measure for calculating semantic relatedness.

Rybinski M(1), Aldana-Montes JF(2).

Author information:
(1)Departamento LCC, University of Malaga, Campus Teatinos, Malaga, 29010, 
Spain.
(2)Departamento LCC, University of Malaga, Campus Teatinos, Malaga, 29010, 
Spain. jfam@lcc.uma.es.

BACKGROUND: Semantic relatedness is a measure that quantifies the strength of a 
semantic link between two concepts. Often, it can be efficiently approximated 
with methods that operate on words, which represent these concepts. 
Approximating semantic relatedness between texts and concepts represented by 
these texts is an important part of many text and knowledge processing tasks of 
crucial importance in the ever growing domain of biomedical informatics. The 
problem of most state-of-the-art methods for calculating semantic relatedness is 
their dependence on highly specialized, structured knowledge resources, which 
makes these methods poorly adaptable for many usage scenarios. On the other 
hand, the domain knowledge in the Life Sciences has become more and more 
accessible, but mostly in its unstructured form - as texts in large document 
collections, which makes its use more challenging for automated processing. In 
this paper we present tESA, an extension to a well known Explicit Semantic 
Relatedness (ESA) method.
RESULTS: In our extension we use two separate sets of vectors, corresponding to 
different sections of the articles from the underlying corpus of documents, as 
opposed to the original method, which only uses a single vector space. We 
present an evaluation of Life Sciences domain-focused applicability of both tESA 
and domain-adapted Explicit Semantic Analysis. The methods are tested against a 
set of standard benchmarks established for the evaluation of biomedical semantic 
relatedness quality. Our experiments show that the propsed method achieves 
results comparable with or superior to the current state-of-the-art methods. 
Additionally, a comparative discussion of the results obtained with tESA and ESA 
is presented, together with a study of the adaptability of the methods to 
different corpora and their performance with different input parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that combined use of the semantics from 
different sections (i.e. extending the original ESA methodology with the use of 
title vectors) of the documents of scientific corpora may be used to enhance the 
performance of a distributional semantic relatedness measures, which can be 
observed in the largest reference datasets. We also present the impact of the 
proposed extension on the size of distributional representations.

DOI: 10.1186/s13326-016-0109-6
PMCID: PMC5192592
PMID: 28031037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. BMJ Open. 2016 Dec 28;6(12):e014010. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-014010.

Model-based cost-effectiveness analysis of B-type natriuretic peptide-guided 
care in patients with heart failure.

Mohiuddin S(1), Reeves B(2), Pufulete M(2), Maishman R(2), Dayer M(3), Macleod 
J(1), McDonagh T(4), Purdy S(1), Rogers C(2), Hollingworth W(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(2)School of Clinical Sciences, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(3)NHS Practice, Taunton and Somerset NHS Trust, Somerset, UK.
(4)Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College London, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Monitoring B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) to guide pharmacotherapy 
might improve survival in patients with heart failure with reduced ejection 
fraction (HFrEF) or preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). However, the 
cost-effectiveness of BNP-guided care is uncertain and guidelines do not 
uniformly recommend it. We assessed the cost-effectiveness of BNP-guided care in 
patient subgroups defined by age and ejection fraction.
METHODS: We used a Markov model with a 3-month cycle length to estimate the 
lifetime health service costs, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and 
incremental net monetary benefits (iNMBs) of BNP-guided versus clinically guided 
care in 3 patient subgroups: (1) HFrEF patients <75 years; (2) HFpEF patients 
<75 years; and (3) HFrEF patients ≥75 years. There is no evidence of benefit in 
patients with HFpEF aged ≥75 years. We used individual patient data 
meta-analyses and linked primary care, hospital and mortality data to inform the 
key model parameters. We performed probabilistic analysis to assess the 
uncertainty in model results.
RESULTS: In younger patients (<75 years) with HFrEF, the mean QALYs (5.57 vs 
5.02) and costs (£63 527 vs £58 139) were higher with BNP-guided care. At the 
willingness-to-pay threshold of £20 000 per QALY, the positive iNMB (£5424 (95% 
CI £987 to £9469)) indicates that BNP-guided care is cost-effective in this 
subgroup. The evidence of cost-effectiveness of BNP-guided care is less strong 
for younger patients with HFpEF (£3155 (-£10 307 to £11 613)) and older patients 
(≥75 years) with HFrEF (£2267 (-£1524 to £6074)). BNP-guided care remained 
cost-effective in the sensitivity analyses, albeit the results were sensitive to 
