

237. Oecologia. 1969 Mar;2(3):292-318. doi: 10.1007/BF00386115.

[Studies on the Iguanidae of Madagascar : II. Remarks on the ecology of 
Chalarodon madagascariensis Peters, 1854].

[Article in French]

Blanc CP(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculté des Sciences Laboratoire de Zoologie, Université de Madagascar, 
Tananarive, Madagascar.

The detailed comments that we made on the repartition map of Chalarodon 
madagascariensis enable us to define, in the climatological study, the factors 
limiting the extension of this species. These number two, namely rainfall and 
sunning. The Chalarodons live in that region of Malagasy where solar heat is 
strongest and rainfall lowest, and where hot climatological conditions range 
from subarid to semiarid (the maximum temperature is one of the highest in the 
island). They live in full sunlight. They are typically xerophilous and 
heliophilous lizards.They are adapted to life in sandy grounds, over which they 
move about most swiftly and out of which they dig their holes. The manner these 
sandy grounds are distributed accounts for the varying density within the 
area.The most characteristic vegetation is xerophilous bush, sparse enough to 
afford sufficient sunlight to the ground.These lizards do not undergo real 
hibernation, but only a marked slackening in their activity during winter in the 
southern hemisphere (dry and cool season).Lastly this study of the factors of 
environment allows us to describe some aspects of their biology in relation to 
their ecology (cycles of activity, nutrition, etc.).

DOI: 10.1007/BF00386115
PMID: 28308835


238. Oecologia. 1981 Mar;48(3):418-421. doi: 10.1007/BF00346504.

Population studies on hill building wood-ants of the Formica rufa-group.

Klimetzek D(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Forest Zoology, The University, Bertoldstr. 17, D-7800, 
Freiburg/Br., Federal Republic of Germany.

Population studies on hill building wood-ants of the Formica rufa-group.Total 
inventories of inhabited ant hills of the Formica rufa-group were carried out in 
a part of the Black Forest amounting to 1,640 ha (4,100 acres) near Freiburg im 
Breisgau on five occasions during the period 1966-1978. Nest densities of 12.7 
to 19.1 per 100 ha were recorded. Mean annual nest mortality for the three most 
abundant species (F. rufa, F. polyctena, F. pratensis) was 21-33% (Table 2); it 
remained almost the same during all intervals between inventories for all age 
classes studied (Fig. 2). The mean annual nest natality varied between 31 and 
51%. It was therefore concluded that changes in the numbers of ant hills (Fig. 
1) resulted from nest natality rather than from the reasonably stable nest 
mortality. Nest size was assessed by height and diameter. The development of 
nest size showed a marked increase with age for F. rufa and F. polyctena 
reaching a maximum at 2-5 years. Mean life expectancy of small nests was 
markedly lower than that of larger nests (Fig. 3). Consequently in the large 
size classes the numbers of old nests were significantly greater than the 
numbers of newly founded nests (Fig. 4). Results are compared with those 
recorded in the literature for palearctic and nearctic species belonging to the 
Formica rufa-group.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00346504
PMID: 28309762


239. Oecologia. 1981 Jul;49(3):362-365. doi: 10.1007/BF00347599.

Mineral nutrition and leaf longevity in an evergreen shrub, Ledum palustre ssp. 
decumbens.

Shaver GR(1).

Author information:
(1)Marine Biological Laboratory, The Ecosystems Center, 02543, Woods Hole, MA, 
USA.

Effects of variable mineral nutrient status on evergreen leaf longevity were 
investigated in a field fertilization experiment, and by comparison of plants 
from several sites. The species studied was Ledum palustre spp. decumbens, with 
a normal leaf life expectancy of 2.06 years and a maximum leaf longevity of 
4.5-5.0 years. Most leaf losses took place during the growing season, not during 
the winter. Fertilization increased leaf production but decreased leaf 
survivorship. Total number of leaves per stem was unchanged with fertilization. 
In a comparison among sites, there was a moderate negative correlation between 
plant N and P concentrations and leaf longevity. These intraspecific responses 
are similar to known interspecific changes along nutrient gradients, i.e. with 
high nutrient availability a vegetation should become more "deciduous" and less 
"evergreen".

DOI: 10.1007/BF00347599
PMID: 28309997


240. Oecologia. 1983 Feb;56(2-3):160-165. doi: 10.1007/BF00379686.

Mineral nutrition and leaf longevity in Ledum palustre: the role of individual 
nutrients and the timing of leaf mortality.

Shaver GR(1).

Author information:
(1)Marine Biological Laboratory, The Ecosystems Center, 02543, Woods Hole, MA, 
USA.

The effects of fertilization on leaf longevity and leaf mortality in the Alaskan 
evergreen shrub, Ledum palustre (Ait.) Hult., were investigated in a field 
experiment. The fertilization treatments included N alone, P alone, N plus P, 
and N plus P plus K. After 5 years all treatments had the same effect on leaf 
longevity, decreasing life expectancy from about 2 years in controls to 1-1.5 
years in the fertilized plants. In the NPK-fertilized plants, most of the 
decrease in leaf longevity was due to increased winter leaf mortality; 
fertilization actually decreased leaf losses during the growing season. The 
results are consistent with previous research suggesting that one function of 
overwintering evergreen leaves is to serve as nutrient storage organs, a 
function that is superfluous when nutrient supplies for new growth can be 
obtained from current uptake.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00379686
PMID: 28310190241. Oecologia. 1980 Jul;46(1):18-21. doi: 10.1007/BF00346960.

Patterns of plant species diversity during succession under different 
disturbance regimes.

Denslow JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Botany, University of Wisconsin, 53706, Madison, Wisconsin, 
USA.

I suggest that between-community variations in diversity patterns during 
succession in plant communities are due to the effects of selection on life 
history strategies under different disturbance regimes. Natural disturbances to 
plant communities are simultaneously a source of mortality for some individuals 
and a source of establishment sites for others. The plant community consists of 
a mosaic of disturbance patches (gaps) of different environmental conditions. 
The composition of the mosaic is described by the size-frequency distribution of 
the gaps and is dependent on the rates and scales of disturbance. The 
life-history strategies of plant species dependent on some form of disturbance 
for establishment of propagules should reflect this size-frequency distribution 
of disturbance patches. An extension of island biogeographic theory to encompass 
relative habitat area predicts that a community should be most rich in species 
adapted to growth and establishment in the spatially most common patch types. 
Changes in species diversity during succession following large scale disturbance 
reflect the prevalent life history patterns under historically common 
disturbance regimes. Communities in which the greatest patch area is in 
large-scale clearings (e.g. following fire) are most diverse in species 
establishing seedlings in xeric, high light conditions. Species diversity 
decreases during succession. Communities in which such large patches are rare 
are characterized by a large number of species that reach the canopy through 
small gaps and realtively few which regenerate in the large clearings. Diversity 
increases during succession following a large scale disturbance.Evidence from 
communities characterized by different disturbance regimes is summarized from 
the literature. This hypothesis provides an evolutionary mechanism with which to 
examine the changes in plant community structure during succession. Diversity 
peaks occurring at "intermediate levels" of disturbance as discussed by Connell 
and Huston are interpreted in this context.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00346960
PMID: 28310620


242. Oecologia. 1986 Nov;70(4):544-548. doi: 10.1007/BF00379901.

Leaf palatability, life expectancy and herbivore damage.

Southwood TR(1), Brown VK(2), Reader PM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, OX1 3PS, Oxford, UK.
(2)Department of Pure and Applied Biology, Imperial College, SW7, London, UK.

Observations on leaves from plants with a wide range of life-forms, ruderals to 
trees, indicate that palatability to insect herbivores is strongly correlated 
with the life-expectancy of the leaves. The amount of damage suffered in the 
field is however inversely correlated with palatability; although the rate of 
damage is less on unpalatable leaves, their longer life means that they 
accumulate damage over a longer period. It is only with extremely well-defended 
evergreen leaves, that the total damage is less than that experienced by less 
palatable (but short-lived) leaves. These observations are related to the 
current theories on relative palatability (the apparency theory and the resource 
availability theory), within the framework of the habitat templet.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00379901
PMID: 28311496


243. Oecologia. 1989 Jan;78(1):115-120. doi: 10.1007/BF00377206.

The effect of increased nutrient availability on leaf turnover and aboveground 
productivity of two evergreen ericaceous shrubs.

Aerts R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Ecology, University of Utrecht, Lange Nieuwstraat 106, 
NL-3512 PN, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Leaf turnover and aboveground productivity in relation to nutrient availability 
were studied in the evergreen shrubs Erica tetralix and Calluna vulgaris. In 
monospecific stands of these species four levels of nutrient (NPK) availability 
were created during three growing seasons. Percentage survival and life 
expectancy of Erica leaves decreased with increasing nutrient availability. For 
Calluna there was no effect. Winter mortality of Erica leaves was smaller than 
growing season mortality. These was no difference for Calluna. The timing of 
leaf mortality of both species was not affected by nutrient treatment. At the 
end of the experimental period current year leaf biomass, total biomass and 
current year second year and third year biomass of both species showed a 
significant increase with increasing nutrient availability. The relative 
increase was greater for Calluna, except for second and third year biomass. Stem 
production and stem mortality of both species increased with increasing nutrient 
availability. The increased stem mortality resulted also for Calluna in an 
increased leaf turnover (per unit ground area) with increasing nutrient 
availability. Nutrient cycling in ecosystems dominated by these species will 
increase with increasing nutrient availability, because of increased leaf and 
stem turnover and productivity. This phenotypic effect is similar to the effect 
of the shift in dominance between different species which occurs along natural 
gradients of nutrient availability.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00377206
PMID: 28311910


244. Oecologia. 1988 May;75(4):601-607. doi: 10.1007/BF00776426.

Demographic models of the northern spotted owl (Strix occidentalis caurina).

Lande R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Chicago, 60637, Chicago, IL, USA.

Calassical demographic methods applied to life history data on the northern 
spotted owl yield and estimate of the annual geometric rate of increase for the 
population of λ=0.96±0.03, which is not significantly different from that for a 
stable population (λ=1.00). Sensitivity analysis indicates that adult annual 
survivorship has by far the largest influence on λ, followed by the probability 
that juveniles survive dispersal, and the adult annual fecundity. Substantial 
temporal fluctuations in demographic parameters have little effect on the 
long-run growth rate of the population because of the long adult life 
expectancy. A model of dispersal and territory occupancy that assumes 
demographic equilibrium is evaluated using data on the amount of old forest 
habitat remaining in the Pacific Northwest and the current occupancy of this 
habitat by northern spotted owls. This model is employed to predict the effect 
of future habitat loss and fragmentation on the population, implying that 
extinction will result if the old forest is reduced to less than a proportion 
0.21±0.02 of the total area in a large region. The estimated minimum habitat 
requirement for the population is greater than that allowed in management plants 
by the USDA Forest Service.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00776426
PMID: 28312437


245. Oecologia. 1992 Sep;91(3):332-337. doi: 10.1007/BF00317620.

Comparisons of carbon isotope discrimination in populations of aridland plant 
species differing in lifespan.

Schuster WS(1)(2), Sandquist DR(1), Phillips SL(1), Ehleringer JR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology and Stable Isotope Ratio Facility for Environmental 
Research, University of Utah, 84112, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.
(2)Black Rock Forest, Continental Road, Box 483, 12518, Cornwall, NY, USA.

Carbon isotope discrimination (Δ) was compared between populations of dominant 
perennial plant species, differing in life expectancy, in two deserts with 
contrasting vegetation types. In both deserts, plants of the shorter-lived 
species showed significantly higher Δ and greater intrapopulation variance in 
this character compared to the long-lived species. These results indicate 
underlying differences in gas-exchange physiology, and suggest a positive 
correlation between water-use efficiency and lifespan in desert plants. 
Differences in variance for this character may reflect greater 
microenvironmental variation experienced by shorter-lived plants and/or 
different forms of selection acting on water-use traits. Spatial distributions 
were significantly clustered for the shorter-lived species and significantly 
uniform for the long-lived species, indicating that competition has been 
important in the development of the long-lived populations. The long-lived 
Larrea tridentata showed a significant, negative correlation between Δ and 
Thiessen polygon area, suggesting a positive relationship between water-use 
efficiency and longevity within this species. This relationship was weakly 
supported in the other warm desert species, Encelia farinosa, but was not 
observed within populations of the cold desert species, Gutierrezia microcephala 
and Coleogyne ramosissima. These results suggest that Δ reflects key aspects of 
plant metabolism related to lifespan; these differences may ultimately influence 
interactions among desert plants and the structure of desert plant communities.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00317620
PMID: 28313539


246. Scand J Med Sci Sports. 2018 Jan;28(1):95-106. doi: 10.1111/sms.12880. Epub
2017  Apr 6.

Localization of muscle damage within the quadriceps femoris induced by different 
types of eccentric exercises.

Maeo S(1)(2), Saito A(1), Otsuka S(1), Shan X(1), Kanehisa H(3), Kawakami Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Sport Sciences, Waseda University, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan.
(2)Research Fellow of Japan Society for the Promotion of Science, Chiyoda, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Sports and Life Science, National Institute of Fitness and 
Sports in Kanoya, Kanoya, Kagoshima, Japan.

This study examined localization of muscle damage within the quadriceps femoris 
induced by different types of eccentric exercises by using transverse relaxation 
time (T2 )-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Thirty-three young males 
performed either of the following three exercises: single-joint eccentric 
contraction of the knee extensors (KE), eccentric squat (S), or downhill walking 
(DW) (n=11/exercise). KE and S consisted of 5-set×10-lowering of 90% 
one-repetition maximum load. DW was performed for 60 minutes with -10% slope, 
6 km/h velocity, and 20% body mass load carried. At pre- and 24-, 48-, and 
72-hours post-exercise, T2 -MRI was scanned and T2 values for the rectus femoris 
(RF), vastus intermedius (VI), vastus lateralis (VL), and vastus medialis (VM) 
at proximal, middle, and distal sites were calculated. Additionally, soreness 
felt when static pressure was applied to these sites and maximal isometric knee 
extension torque were measured. Maximal torque significantly (P<.05) decreased 
(7%-15%) at 24-48 hours after all exercises. T2 significantly increased (3%-9%) 
at 24-72 hours after all exercises, with heterogeneities within the muscles 
found in each exercise. Effect size and peak change of T2 , as well as soreness, 
overall indicated that the proximal RF after KE and middle VM after S and DW 
were most affected by these exercises. The VL did not show any significant T2 
increase after all exercises. These results suggest that muscle damage 
specifically localizes at the proximal RF by KE and at the middle VM by S and 
DW, while the VL is least damaged regardless of the exercises.

© 2017 The Authors. Scandinavian Journal of Medicine & Science In Sports 
Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/sms.12880
PMID: 28314055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Urologe A. 2017 May;56(5):610-616. doi: 10.1007/s00120-017-0363-y.

[When is cytoreductive nephrectomy not beneficial for patients with metastatic 
renal cell carcinoma?].

[Article in German]

Schostak M(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Urologie und Kinderurologie, Universitätsklinikum Magdeburg 
A.ö.R., Leipziger Str. 44, 39120, Magdeburg, Deutschland. 
martin.schostak@med.ovgu.de.

Primary tumor resection in patients with synchronous metastatic renal cell 
carcinoma and a good performance status corresponds to a guideline 
recommendation which, however, is based on weak data from the era of cytokine 
therapy. This article presents arguments that weigh heavily against 
cytoreductive nephrectomy. From a molecular genetic viewpoint, the intervention 
eliminates only the easiest adversary but cannot prevent cancer-related death. 
Therefore, benefits and risks must be carefully and critically considered. 
Cytoreductive nephrectomy is not beneficial if treatment-induced morbidity will 
substantially affect the patient's quality of life and/or life expectancy or if 
the size and topography of the primary tumor renders it less dangerous than the 
metastases.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-017-0363-y
PMID: 28314968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Urologe A. 2017 May;56(5):604-609. doi: 10.1007/s00120-017-0364-x.

[Should cytoreductive nephrectomy be performed in patients with metastatic renal 
cell carcinoma and what is the scientific rationale?].

[Article in German]

Gilbert N(1), Merseburger AS(1), Kramer MW(2).

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Urologie, Universitätsklinikum Schleswig-Holstein, 
Ratzeburger Allee 160, 23538, Lübeck, Deutschland.
(2)Klinik und Poliklinik für Urologie, Universitätsklinikum Schleswig-Holstein, 
Ratzeburger Allee 160, 23538, Lübeck, Deutschland. mario.kramer@uksh.de.

Between 15 and 20% of patients diagnosed with renal cell carcinoma suffer from 
metastatic disease by the time of diagnosis. In the immunotherapy era, the 
standard treatment was to perform cytoreductive nephrectomy (CN) followed by 
treatment with interferon α. This was based on two prospective randomized trials 
and their combined analysis. Since the introduction of targeted therapy, the use 
of CN came into question and the number of performed CN has declined. Two trials 
(CARMENA and SURTIME) evaluating the role of CN in the times of targeted therapy 
have either closed early or are recruiting slowly and will probably not be able 
to answer this question. Thus, we need to focus on retrospective data consisting 
of several analyses with large numbers of patients. These analyses all seem to 
show a benefit in overall survival, and adjusted for prognostic factors CN 
represents an independent predictor of longer survival. A correlation between 
expected life span and efficacy of CN has been shown with a survival rate that 
is three times higher after 3 years. Only patients with low performance status, 
low life expectancy, cerebral metastases, and old age did not benefit from CN. 
Furthermore, symptom control of large primary tumors without response to 
systemic therapy and the fact that all reports of long-term remission or long 
survival rates are associated with the use of CN are theoretical aspects 
speaking in favor of this treatment. This leads to the recommendation to perform 
CN in all patients with good performance status in all important guidelines.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-017-0364-x
PMID: 28314973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Emerg Radiol. 2017 Oct;24(5):479-486. doi: 10.1007/s10140-017-1493-7. Epub
2017  Mar 17.

Practices and attitudes towards radiation risk disclosure for computed 
tomography: survey of emergency medicine residency program directors.

Marin JR(1), Thomas KE(2), Mills AM(3), Broder JS(4), Boutis K(5).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pediatrics and Emergency Medicine, University of Pittsburgh 
School of Medicine, 4401 Penn Ave, AOB Suite 2400, Pittsburgh, PA, 15224, USA. 
jennifer.marin@chp.edu.
(2)Department of Diagnostic Imaging, Hospital for Sick Children, University of 
Toronto, 555 University Ave, Toronto, ON, M5G1X8, Canada.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, 3400 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.
(4)Division of Emergency Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Box 3096, 
Durham, NC, 27710, USA.
(5)Division of Emergency Medicine, Hospital for Sick Children, University of 
Toronto, 555 University Avenue, Toronto, ON, M5G1X8, Canada.

PURPOSE: The purposes of this study were to evaluate the frequency with which 
emergency physicians involved in residency leadership disclose potential 
malignancy risks from computed tomography (CT), assess comfort with these 
discussions, and evaluate factors influencing risk disclosure.
METHODS: We surveyed emergency medicine residency program directors and 
associate/assistant directors. Primary outcome was the proportion who "almost 
always" or "most of the time" discussed potential risks.
RESULTS: Two hundred and seventy-four (50.6%) of 542 eligible physicians 
responded. There were 82.1% (95% CI 76.8%, 86.6%) who reported almost always or 
most of the time discussing potential risks for patients ≤18 years; proportions 
for adults 19-40, 41-65, and >65 years were 50.6% (95% CI 44.4, 56.7%), 20.7% 
(95% CI 16.0, 26.0%), and 5.2% (95% CI 2.9, 8.5%), respectively (test for trend, 
p < 0.001). The proportion reporting being "extremely" or "very" comfortable 
discussing risks was 57.1% (95% CI 51.1, 63.2%). Patient/family CT request that 
the physician felt was not indicated was of "very high" or "high" importance for 
driving risk discussions in 86.4% of respondents. For 75.5%, patient/family 
query about radiation risks was of "high" or "very high" importance. Among 57.4% 
of respondents, the patient being elderly and/or having a reduced life 
expectancy was of "high" or "very high" importance in the decision not to 
discuss risk.
CONCLUSIONS: Emergency physicians involved in residency leadership report 
frequently disclosing potential malignancy risks from CT at frequencies 
inversely proportional to patient age. About half are comfortable with 
discussions, and many discussions are driven by patient requests. Opportunities 
exist to optimize and standardize emergency department CT radiation risk 
disclosure practices.

DOI: 10.1007/s10140-017-1493-7
PMID: 28315025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2017 Apr 29;486(2):391-397. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2017.03.051. Epub 2017 Mar 14.

Sublethal doses of neonicotinoid imidacloprid can interact with honey bee 
chemosensory protein 1 (CSP1) and inhibit its function.

Li H(1), Tan J(2), Song X(2), Wu F(2), Tang M(2), Hua Q(3), Zheng H(4), Hu F(4).

Author information:
(1)Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Biometrology and Inspection & 
Quarantine, College of Life Sciences, China Jiliang University, Hangzhou 310018, 
PR China. Electronic address: atcjlu@126.com.
(2)Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Biometrology and Inspection & 
Quarantine, College of Life Sciences, China Jiliang University, Hangzhou 310018, 
PR China.
(3)Jinhua Academy of Agricultural Science, Jinhua 321000, PR China.
(4)College of Animal Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, PR China.

As a frequently used neonicotinoid insecticide, imidacloprid can impair the 
chemoreceptive behavior of honey bees even at sublethal doses, while the 
physiochemical mechanism has not been further revealed. Here, multiple 
fluorescence spectra, thermodynamic method, and molecular docking were used to 
study the interaction and the functional inhibition of imidacloprid to the 
recombinant CSP1 protein in Asian honey bee, Apis cerana. The results showed 
that the fluorescence intensity (λem = 332 nm) of CSP1 could be significantly 
quenched by imidacloprid in a dynamic mode. During the quenching process, ΔH > 
0, ΔS > 0, indicating that the acting forces of imidacloprid with CSP1 are 
mainly hydrophobic interactions. Synchronous fluorescence showed that the 
fluorescence of CSP1 was mainly derived from tryptophan, and the hydrophobicity 
of tryptophan decreased with the increase of imidacloprid concentration. 
Molecular docking predicted the optimal pose and the amino acid composition of 
the binding process. Circular dichroism (CD) spectra showed that imidacloprid 
reduced the α-helix of CSP1 and caused the extension of the CSP1 peptide chain. 
In addition, the binding of CSP1 to floral scent β-ionone was inhibited by 
nearly 50% of the apparent association constant (KA) in the presence of 
0.28-2.53 ng/bee of imidacloprid, and the inhibition rate of nearly 95% at 3.75 
ng/bee of imidacloprid at sublethal dose level. This study initially revealed 
the molecular physiochemical mechanism that sublethal doses of neonicotinoid 
still interact and inhibit the physiological function of the honey bees' 
chemoreceptive system.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2017.03.051
PMID: 28315331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Exp Gerontol. 2017 Jun;92:46-51. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2017.03.012. Epub 2017
Mar  14.

Physical activity and dietary habits related to cardiovascular risk in 
independent community-living older women.

Fraile-Bermúdez AB(1), Kortajarena M(2), Zarrazquin I(1), Irazusta A(1), 
Fernandez-Atutxa A(1), Ruiz-Litago F(3), Yanguas JJ(4), Gil J(3), Irazusta J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing I, Faculty of Medicine and Nursing, University of the 
Basque Country, Leioa, Bizkaia, Spain.
(2)Department of Nursing I, Faculty of Medicine and Nursing, University of the 
Basque Country, Leioa, Bizkaia, Spain; Department of Nursing II, Faculty of 
Medicine and Nursing, University of the Basque Country, Donostia, Gipuzkoa, 
Spain.
(3)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine and Nursing, University of the 
Basque Country, Leioa, Bizkaia, Spain.
(4)Matia Instituto Gerontologico Foundation, Donostia, Gipuzkoa, Spain.

A side effect of increased life expectancy is a surge in sequelae of diseases 
and injuries, which in turn increase the duration of life with disability among 
the elderly. The aim of this study was to ascertain the physical activity and 
nutritional parameters that better predict cardiovascular risk in a cohort of 
older women. A cross-sectional study was designed including 65 women able to 
independently perform basic activities of daily life. Data collection included 
anthropometric measurement, blood pressure measurement, blood analytics, 
objectively measurement of physical activity, and dietary assessment. We were 
able to generate models that explain the relationship between physical activity, 
diet, and these health measurement parameters. We observed that the combination 
of moderate physical activity and a diet including protein-rich foods as nuts, 
dairy, and eggs were better predictors associated with favorable changes in risk 
factors for cardiovascular disease than age.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2017.03.012
PMID: 28315394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Mech Ageing Dev. 2017 Jul;165(Pt B):59-67. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2017.03.004.
Epub  2017 Mar 16.

Worldwide demography of centenarians.

Robine JM(1), Cubaynes S(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Montpellier, Montpellier F-34095, France; INSERM, U1198, 
Montpellier F-34095, France; EPHE, Paris F-75014, France; PSL Research 
University, Paris F-75005, France. Electronic address: 
jean-marie.robine@inserm.fr.
(2)University of Montpellier, Montpellier F-34095, France; INSERM, U1198, 
Montpellier F-34095, France; EPHE, Paris F-75014, France; PSL Research 
University, Paris F-75005, France.

The global number of centenarians should strongly increase during the 21 st 
century. According to the Population Division of the United Nations it should 
reach more than 25 million people in 2100. To better understand the dynamics of 
the emergence and growth of the centenarian population, we focused on four 
European countries having long chronological series and high quality data about 
centenarians, Denmark, France, Sweden, and Switzerland, and Japan which has had 
the highest life expectancy at birth for several years. we analysed the 
emergence of the centenarian populations and their pace of growth in the wider 
context of the adult longevity revolution, as well as the trends in mortality 
level among these new populations. We found that out of the 5 countries studied, 
the decrease in mortality at age 100 for females who are leading the adult 
longevity revolution, seems to be interrupted in 4 countries, including in 
Japan. These results are in favour of the scenario of "compression of 
mortality", possibly limiting the future number of centenarians. However, 
previous studies have shown that demographic transitions are not linear and, 
after periods of interruption, trends can resume towards an always greater 
longevity.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2017.03.004
PMID: 28315698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. J Med Life. 2015;8(Spec Iss 3):141-145.

Relationship between patient safety and accountability of nurses in Al-Zahra 
Gilangharb Hospital in 2015.

Esfandnia F(1), Mohammadi E(1), Mohammadi M(1), Cheraghi R(1), Esfandnia N(1), 
Esfandnia A(1).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, 
Kermanshah, Iran.

Introduction. The purpose of this research was to investigate the connection 
between the patient safety and the accountability of nurses in Gilangharb 
Hospital in 2015. Methods. This research was a cross-sectional study conducted 
in Al-Gilangharb, in 2015. The data needed for research was taken from the 
library and an internet search and was gathered by using standard 
questionnaireThe professional and caring nurses' questionnaire was based on the 
extension evaluation office Nursing Care, Ministry of Health and Medical 
Education and demographic information and questions about 4 different roles of 
nurses were prepared and included. Moreover, patient safety was highlighted in a 
validation questionnaire, validated by experts judging group of teachers and 
academics, which was established. Cronbach's alpha test was used to assess the 
reliability. Finally, the reliability and professional standards of nursing 
care, patient safety questionnaire 093. 86/ 0 percent calculated the population 
of Gilangharb Hospital nurses (n = 70) and, in the strata selected, a 
statistical analysis using data from the questionnaires included in the SPSS 
statistical software, version 21, took place. Results. The patients' safety and 
accountability was observed at the level of 95 percent by using the Spearman 
correlation (SIG = .000). The correlation coefficient was (R=.768). Also, the 
dimensions of responsibility between the patient's safety (regarding the role of 
the nurse teacher, manager, researcher, and clinician) at 95 percent and the 
positive use of Spearman correlation was found (SIG = .000). Conclusions. Given 
the correlation among the patient protection and accountability, it can be said 
that the nurses in all roles (educator, researcher, administrator, and clinical 
specialist) have been successful, so, we suggested that given the experience, 
expertise and abilities, they have made an efficient use of their lifting power.

PMCID: PMC5348955
PMID: 28316681


254. J Med Life. 2015;8(Spec Iss 4):60-64.

The relationship between praying and life expectancy in cancerous patients.

Hekmati Pour N(1), Hojjati H(2).

Author information:
(1)Young Researchers and Elite Club, Aliabad Katoul Branch, Islamic Azad 
University, Aliabad Katoul, Iran.
(2)Department of Nursing, Aliabad Katoul Branch, Islamic Azad University, 
Aliabad Katoul, Iran.

Introduction. Knowing that someone was entangled with cancer is a surprising 
experience for that person. Being aware of having cancer not only makes the 
person loose his hopes and ambitions, but also influences his body and mental. 
Meanwhile, religion can play the proper role of complementary treatment, 
increasing life expectancy in these patients. Objective. The study was conducted 
with the aim of determining the relationship between praying and life expectancy 
in cancerous patients. Method. This descriptive correlation study was performed 
on 96 malignant patients who were under chemotherapy in Golestan province in 
1392. Paloma and Pendleton's Measure of Prayer Type questionnaires and Schneider 
questionnaire of life expectancy were used to collect this information. Analyses 
were performed by using SPSS 21.0. Data were analyzed by using the linear 
regression and the analytical significance was set at p < 0.05. Findings. The 
linear regression showed a significant relationship between life expectancy and 
praying (CI95:0.01-0.13), OR = 0.07, Beta = -0.24 P < 0.02) and in the light of 
previous experience it showed a significant relationship between praying and 
life expectancy. Conclusion. According to the obtained result of this study, 
cancerous patients can overcome their illness through praying, and they can also 
triumph cancer through self-confidence and control it, by getting more knowledge 
of their disease and become more hopeful about their future.

PMCID: PMC5319262
PMID: 28316708


255. Ann Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg. 2017 Feb;21(1):48-51. doi: 
10.14701/ahbps.2017.21.1.48. Epub 2017 Feb 28.

Fibrolamellar variant of hepatocellular carcinoma presenting during pregnancy: 
management dilemmas.

Vishnu N(1), Kulkarni AV(2), Vidhyalakshmi S(3), Sambandam S(1), Garg P(4), 
LeelaKrishnan V(2), Janarthan K(2), Singh G(1), Kaur M(5), Chitra TV(6), John 
BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of HPB and Liver Transplantation, PSG Institute of Medical 
Sciences and Research, Avinashi Road, Coimbatore, India.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, PSG Institute of Medical Sciences and 
Research, Avinashi Road, Coimbatore, India.
(3)Department of Pathology, PSG Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, 
Avinashi Road, Coimbatore, India.
(4)Department of Radiology, PSG Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, 
Avinashi Road, Coimbatore, India.
(5)Department of Anaesthesiology and Critical Care, PSG Institute of Medical 
Sciences and Research, Avinashi Road, Coimbatore, India.
(6)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, PSG Institute of Medical Sciences 
and Research, Avinashi Road, Coimbatore, India.

The Fibrolamellar variant of Hepatocellular Carcinoma (FLHCC) is a rare form of 
liver cancer that presents in the 3rd decade of life, is rarely associated with 
cirrhosis or chronic Hepatitis B/C virus infection, and usually presents with 
normal serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) levels. FLHCC presenting during pregnancy 
is extremely rare, with only 4 cases reported. We present a case of FLHCC in 
pregnancy and discuss the dilemmas in management. A 26 year-old primigravida, 26 
weeks of gestation presented with a month's history of obstructive jaundice 
secondary. Investigations revealed a mass in the left lateral segment of the 
liver with extension down the left hepatic duct into the common bile duct. 
Following an emergency caesarean section at 31 weeks, she underwent a left 
hepatectomy with extrahepatic bile duct excision. The postoperative course was 
uneventful. Histopathology showed FLHCC. In conclusion, liver tumors presenting 
during pregnancy should be managed in a multidisciplinary setup with facilities 
for neonatal intensive care. Management depends on the presumed pathology, 
period of gestation and family preferences.

DOI: 10.14701/ahbps.2017.21.1.48
PMCID: PMC5353910
PMID: 28317045


256. Anaesthesia. 2017 Jun;72(6):704-713. doi: 10.1111/anae.13853. Epub 2017 Mar
20.

Long-term outcomes and cost effectiveness of high-dose dexamethasone for cardiac 
surgery: a randomised trial.

Dieleman JM(1), de Wit GA(2), Nierich AP(3), Rosseel PM(4), van der Maaten 
JM(5), Hofland J(6), Diephuis JC(7), de Lange F(8), Boer C(9), Neslo RE(2), 
Moons KG(2), van Herwerden LA(10), Tijssen JG(11), Kalkman CJ(1), van Dijk D(1); 
DExamethasone for Cardiac Surgery (DECS) Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Intensive Care, University Medical Center, 
Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(2)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical 
Center, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Cardiothoracic Anesthesia, Isala Klinieken, Zwolle, the 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Cardiothoracic Anesthesia, Amphia Ziekenhuis, Breda, the 
Netherlands.
(5)Department of Anesthesiology, University Medical Center, Groningen, the 
Netherlands.
(6)Department of Cardiothoracic Anesthesia, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(7)Department of Cardiothoracic Anesthesia, Medisch Spectrum Twente, Enschede, 
the Netherlands.
(8)Department of Cardiothoracic Anesthesia, Medical Center, Leeuwarden, the 
Netherlands.
(9)Department of Anesthesiology, Vrije Universiteit University Medical Center, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(10)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University Medical Center, Utrecht, 
the Netherlands.
(11)Department of Cardiology, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.

Prophylactic intra-operative administration of dexamethasone may improve 
short-term clinical outcomes in cardiac surgical patients. The purpose of this 
study was to evaluate long-term clinical outcomes and cost effectiveness of 
dexamethasone versus placebo. Patients included in the multicentre, randomised, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled DExamethasone for Cardiac Surgery (DECS) trial 
were followed up for 12 months after their cardiac surgical procedure. In the 
DECS trial, patients received a single intra-operative dose of dexamethasone 1 
mg.kg-1 (n = 2239) or placebo (n = 2255). The effects on the incidence of major 
postoperative events were evaluated. Also, overall costs for the 12-month 
postoperative period, and cost effectiveness, were compared between groups. Of 
4494 randomised patients, 4457 patients (99%) were followed up until 12 months 
after surgery. There was no difference in the incidence of major postoperative 
events, the relative risk (95%CI) being 0.86 (0.72-1.03); p = 0.1. Treatment 
with dexamethasone reduced costs per patient by £921 [€1084] (95%CI £-1672 to 
-137; p = 0.02), mainly through reduction of postoperative respiratory failure 
and duration of postoperative hospital stay. The probability of dexamethasone 
being cost effective compared with placebo was 97% at a threshold value of 
£17,000 [€20,000] per quality-adjusted life year. We conclude that 
intra-operative high-dose dexamethasone did not have an effect on major adverse 
events at 12 months after cardiac surgery, but was associated with a reduction 
in costs. Routine dexamethasone administration is expected to be cost effective 
at commonly accepted threshold levels for cost effectiveness.

© 2017 The Association of Anaesthetists of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/anae.13853
PMID: 28317094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Arch Argent Pediatr. 2017 Apr 1;115(2):e99-e103. doi: 10.5546/aap.2017.e99.

[Neuropsychiatric phenotype of Angelman syndrome and clinical care: report of 
seven cases].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Cote-Orozco JE(1), Mera-Solarte PD(2), Espinosa-García E(3).

Author information:
(1)Universidad Militar Nueva Granada, Bogotá, Colombia. je.coteorozco@gmail.com.
(2)Servicio de Neurología Pediátrica, Hospital Militar Central, Bogotá, 
Colombia.
(3)Servicio de Neurología Pediátrica, Instituto de Ortopedia Infantil Roosevelt, 
Bogotá, Colombia.

Angelman syndrome is a neurogenetic disorder caused by a lack or reduction of 
expression of UBE3A located within chromosome 15, which codes for ubiquitin 
protein ligase E3A, which has a key role in synaptic development and neural 
plasticity. Its main features are developmental delay/intellectual disability, 
lack of speech, a characteristic behavioural profile, and epilepsy. We describe 
clinical features and management of seven cases with 15q11-13 deletion. Due to 
their life expectancy, knowing and managing its comorbidities is crucial to 
improve their quality of life. We review the diagnosis and long-term clinical 
care of patients with Angelman syndrome.

Publisher: El síndrome de Angelman es un trastorno neurogenético debido a la 
falta o reducción en la expresión del gen UBE3A en el cromosoma 15, el cual 
codifica la proteína ubiquitina ligasa E3A, que tiene un papel integral en el 
desarrollo sináptico y la plasticidad neuronal. Se manifiesta por retraso en el 
neurodesarrollo o discapacidad intelectual, comportamiento característico y 
epilepsia. Se describen las características clínicas de siete pacientes con 
deleción del cromosoma 15q11-13 y su manejo integral. Por la expectativa de 
vida, es importante conocer y manejar las comorbilidades de forma 
interdisciplinaria para lograr mejorar la calidad de vida de los afectados. Se 
realiza una revisión de la literatura sobre la aproximación integral al 
diagnóstico y cuidado clínico a largo plazo de los pacientes con síndrome de 
Angelman.

Sociedad Argentina de Pediatría.

DOI: 10.5546/aap.2017.e99
PMID: 28318193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Cardiol Young. 2017 Sep;27(7):1349-1355. doi: 10.1017/S1047951117000324.
Epub  2017 Mar 20.

School-related adjustment in children and adolescents with CHD.

Im YM(1), Lee S(2), Yun TJ(3), Choi JY(4).

Author information:
(1)1Seoul Women's College of Nursing,The Catholic University of 
Korea,Seoul,Korea.
(2)2College of Nursing,The Catholic University of Korea,Seoul,Korea.
(3)3Division of Pediatric Cardiac Surgery,Asan Medical Center,University of 
Ulsan College of Medicine,Seoul,Korea.
(4)4Division of Pediatric Cardiology,Severance Cardiovascular Hospital,Yonsei 
University Health System,Seoul,Korea.

Advancements in medical and surgical treatment have increased the life 
expectancy of patients with CHD. Many patients with CHD, however, struggle with 
the medical, psychosocial, and behavioural challenges as they transition from 
childhood to adulthood. Specifically, the environmental and lifestyle challenges 
in school are very important factors that affect children and adolescents with 
CHD. This study aimed to evaluate school-related adjustments depending on school 
level and disclosure of disease in children and adolescents with CHD. This was a 
descriptive and exploratory study with 205 children and adolescents, aged 7-18 
years, who were recruited from two congenital heart clinics from 5 January to 27 
February, 2015. Data were analysed using the Student's t-test, analysis of 
variance, and a univariate general linear model. School-related adjustment 
scores were significantly different according to school level and disclosure of 
disease (p<0.001) when age, religion, experience being bullied, and parents' 
educational levels were assigned as covariates. The school-related adjustment 
score of patients who did not disclose their disease dropped significantly in 
high school. This indicated that it is important for healthcare providers to 
plan developmentally appropriate educational transition programmes for 
middle-school students with CHD in order for students to prepare themselves 
before entering high school.

DOI: 10.1017/S1047951117000324
PMID: 28318457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Rev Port Cardiol. 2017 Apr;36(4):273-281. doi: 10.1016/j.repc.2016.08.011.
Epub  2017 Mar 16.

Disability-adjusted life years lost due to ischemic heart disease in mainland 
Portugal, 2013.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Henriques A(1), Araújo C(2), Viana M(3), Laszczynska O(3), Pereira M(3), Bennett 
K(4), Lunet N(5), Azevedo A(5).

Author information:
(1)EPIUnit - Instituto de Saúde Pública, Universidade do Porto, Porto, Portugal. 
Electronic address: alhenriques@med.up.pt.
(2)EPIUnit - Instituto de Saúde Pública, Universidade do Porto, Porto, Portugal; 
Department of Cardiology, Centro Hospitalar Trás-os-Montes-e-Alto-Douro, Vila 
Real, Portugal; Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Predictive Medicine and 
Public Health, University of Porto Medical School, Porto, Portugal.
(3)EPIUnit - Instituto de Saúde Pública, Universidade do Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(4)Population Health Sciences Division, Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, St 
Stephens Green, Dublin 2, Ireland.
(5)EPIUnit - Instituto de Saúde Pública, Universidade do Porto, Porto, Portugal; 
Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Predictive Medicine and Public Health, 
University of Porto Medical School, Porto, Portugal.

Comment in
    Rev Port Cardiol. 2017 Apr;36(4):283-285.

INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: Estimates of the burden of ischemic heart disease 
(IHD), including geographic differences, should support health policy decisions. 
We set out to estimate the burden of IHD in mainland Portugal in 2013 by 
calculating disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) and to compare this burden 
between five regions.
METHODS: Years of life lost (YLLs) were calculated by multiplying the number of 
IHD deaths in 2013 (Statistics Portugal) by the life expectancy at the age at 
which death occurred. Years lived with disability (YLDs) were computed as the 
number of cases of acute coronary syndrome, stable angina and ischemic heart 
failure multiplied by an average disability weight. Crude and age-standardized 
DALYs (direct method, Standard European Population) were calculated for mainland 
Portugal and for the Northern, Central, Lisbon, Alentejo and Algarve regions.
RESULTS: In 2013, 95413 DALYs were lost in mainland Portugal due to IHD. YLLs 
accounted for 88.3% of the disease burden. Age-standardized DALY rates per 1000 
population were higher in men than in women, across the entire country (8.9 in 
men; 3.4 in women) and within each region, ranging from 7.3 in the Northern and 
Central regions to 11.8 in the Algarve in men, and from 2.6 in the Northern 
region to 4.6 in Lisbon in women.
CONCLUSIONS: Nearly 100000 DALYs were lost to IHD in Portugal, mostly through 
early mortality. This study enables accurate comparisons with other countries 
and between regions; however, it highlights the need for population-based 
studies to obtain specific data on morbidity.

Copyright © 2017 Sociedade Portuguesa de Cardiologia. Publicado por Elsevier 
España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.repc.2016.08.011
PMID: 28318855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Microsurgery. 2017 Jul;37(5):442-450. doi: 10.1002/micr.30156. Epub 2017 Mar
20.

The systematic review and meta-analysis of free flap safety in the elderly 
patients.

Üstün GG(1), Aksu AE(1), Uzun H(1), Bitik O(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic Surgery, Hacettepe University Hospitals, Ankara, 
Turkey.

BACKGROUND: Prolonged mean life expectancy gives rise to a more populated and 
older patient group. With increasing number of cases during the past decades, 
older patients are regarded as candidates for microsurgical interventions. 
Whether advanced patient age is an independent risk factor for microsurgical 
reconstruction is still an ongoing matter of debate.
METHODS: The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, PubMed, MEDLINE, 
CINAHL and EMBASE databases were screened for combination of the key words 
"elderly", "geriatric", "advanced age", "free flap", "microsurgery", free tissue 
transfer" by using time limits between 1989 and 2015.
RESULTS: According to results of the meta-analysis, there was no significant 
difference in the flap success rates(P =.39, CI = 0.848 to 2.329) and surgical 
complication rates (P = .83, CI = 0.792 to 1.163) between the young and elderly 
patient groups. However, the systemic complication rates(P = .02, CI = 1.468 to 
3.572), preoperative ASA scores(P < .0001, CI = 0.342 to 1.078), and mortality 
rates (P = .03, CI = 2.636 to 9.055) were found to be significantly higher in 
the elderly patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Although an increased rate of systemic complications and mortality 
has been associated with advanced age, our study results showed no significant 
difference between the flap success rates and surgical complications. A 
successful reduction in systemic complications would bring the risk level of 
reconstructive microsurgical interventions of the elderly patient group to the 
level of the young patient group. © 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Microsurgery 
37:442-450, 2017.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/micr.30156
PMID: 28319277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Radiat Res. 2017 May;187(5):513-537. doi: 10.1667/RR14492.1. Epub 2017 Mar
20.

Solid Cancer Incidence among the Life Span Study of Atomic Bomb Survivors: 
1958-2009.

Grant EJ(1), Brenner A(2), Sugiyama H(1), Sakata R(1), Sadakane A(1), Utada 
M(1), Cahoon EK(2), Milder CM(3), Soda M(1), Cullings HM(4), Preston DL(5), 
Mabuchi K(2), Ozasa K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of a   Epidemiology, Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan.
(2)d   Radiation Epidemiology Branch, Division of Cancer Epidemiology and 
Genetics, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland.
(3)c   Visiting Researcher, Radiation Effects Research Foundation, Hiroshima and 
Nagasaki, Japan.
(4)b   Department of Statistics, Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan.
(5)e   Hirosoft International Corporation, Eureka, California.

Comment in
    Radiat Res. 2017 Sep;188(3):369-371.
    Radiat Res. 2017 Oct;188(4):463-464.

This is the third analysis of solid cancer incidence among the Life Span Study 
(LSS) cohort of atomic bomb survivors in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, adding eleven 
years of follow-up data since the previously reported analysis. For this 
analysis, several changes and improvements were implemented, including updated 
dose estimates (DS02R1) and adjustment for smoking. Here, we focus on all solid 
cancers in aggregate. The eligible cohort included 105,444 subjects who were 
alive and had no known history of cancer at the start of follow-up. A total of 
80,205 subjects had individual dose estimates and 25,239 were not in either city 
at the time of the bombings. The follow-up period was 1958-2009, providing 
3,079,484 person-years of follow-up. Cases were identified by linkage with 
population-based Hiroshima and Nagasaki Cancer Registries. Poisson regression 
methods were used to elucidate the nature of the radiation-associated risks per 
Gy of weighted absorbed colon dose using both excess relative risk (ERR) and 
excess absolute risk (EAR) models adjusted for smoking. Risk estimates were 
reported for a person exposed at age 30 years with attained age of 70 years. In 
this study, 22,538 incident first primary solid cancer cases were identified, of 
which 992 were associated with radiation exposure. There were 5,918 cases (26%) 
