some patients reported that stopping might give them the feeling that their 
attending physician has already thrown in the towel. Physicians mentioned 
several reasons for not ceasing PIMs: cessation not considered, low priority, 
and unknown consequences of discontinuation. Some physicians were concerned that 
discussing the discontinuation of PIMs with patients could make patients acutely 
aware of the approach of death, and give patients the impression that they are 
receiving inferior medical care. If physicians communicate with patients the 
possibility of discontinuing medications, they seem to emphasize the clinical 
futility of continuing PIMs in light of the patient's limited life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: Patients with a limited life expectancy and their relatives may be 
open to discontinue PIMs; however, in reality this happens rarely. When a 
physician is of the opinion that it would be of benefit to discontinue certain 
medications, then the advantages of cessation should be highlighted more in 
discussions with the patient.

PMID: 28181897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. AIDS Rev. 2017 Apr-Jun;19(2):72-80.

Contribution of Common Infections to Cardiovascular risk in HIV Positive 
Individuals.

Berquist V(1), Hoy JF(1)(2), Trevillyan JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Faculty of Medicine, Nursing and Health 
Sciences, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases, Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.

HIV-positive individuals are at increased risk for cardiovascular disease due to 
complex interactions between the increased incidence of traditional 
cardiovascular risk factors and HIV and antiretroviral-associated inflammation 
and dyslipidemia. Increasing evidence suggests that a number of important 
co-pathogens, including cytomegalovirus, hepatitis C virus, and periodontal 
disease, are likely to also be contributing. Mechanisms such as molecular 
mimicry and modification of lipids play a role; however, induction of systemic 
inflammation is the likely key pathogenic link by which this occurs. Treatments 
to reduce the presence of infection, such as antibiotics, antivirals, or dental 
hygiene, show potential as modifiers of cardiovascular risk in HIV-positive 
individuals. This review will discuss the evidence regarding the contribution of 
these key co-pathogens, Chlamydia pneumoniae, cytomegalovirus, and hepatitis C 
virus, to cardiovascular risk in HIV-positive individuals. It will also review 
the roles that inflammation, microbial translocation, and periodontal infection 
play in promoting cardiovascular disease. The potential cardiovascular benefits 
of treating these infections with antimicrobials (such as valganciclovir) or 
improvements in dental hygiene (in the setting of periodontal disease) will be 
explored. As the life expectancy of HIV-positive individuals increases and the 
HIV-positive population thus ages, reducing the impact of age-related 
comorbidities, and particularly cardiovascular disease, will be of increasing 
importance at both an individual and population level.

PMID: 28182619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. AIDS Rev. 2017 Apr-Jun;19(2):81-88.

The Revival of an "Old" Marker: CD4/CD8 Ratio.

Bruno G(1), Saracino A(1), Monno L(1), Angarano G(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Infectious Diseases, University of Bari, Bari, Italy.

The effectiveness of modern antiretroviral therapies (ART) transformed HIV 
infection into a chronic disease characterized by a persistent condition of 
inflammation and immune activation. For this reason, even thought AIDS-related 
mortality has been reduced with an increased life expectancy, patients living 
with HIV infection are more likely to develop non-AIDS events despite the 
achievement of a complete suppression of HIV replication. Hence, the scientific 
community feels the need to find new biomarkers which would be suitable in 
clinical practice for identifying patients who require a close monitoring 
because of an increased risk of developing comorbidities. A renewed interest has 
emerged about the usefulness of CD4/CD8 ratio as a strong marker of immune 
activation and immune senescence. Recently, many studies have underlined that 
CD4/CD8 ratio might represent a good predictor of AIDS and non-AIDS events. 
Herein, the potential role of the CD4/CD8 ratio for the monitoring of HIV 
patients in different clinical settings is reviewed.

PMID: 28182620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. J Psychosom Res. 2017 Mar;94:73-81. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychores.2017.01.005.
Epub  2017 Jan 10.

Long-term economic evaluation of cognitive-behavioural group treatment versus 
enhanced usual care for functional somatic syndromes.

Schröder A(1), Ørnbøl E(2), Jensen JS(2), Sharpe M(3), Fink P(2).

Author information:
(1)Research Clinic for Functional Disorders and Psychosomatics, Aarhus 
University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark. Electronic address: 
andreas.schroeder@aarhus.rm.dk.
(2)Research Clinic for Functional Disorders and Psychosomatics, Aarhus 
University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.
(3)Psychological Medicine Research, Department of Psychiatry, University of 
Oxford, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Patients with functional somatic syndromes (FSS) such as fibromyalgia 
and chronic fatigue syndrome have a poor outcome and can incur high healthcare 
and societal costs. We aimed to compare the medium-term (16months) 
cost-effectiveness and the long-term (40months) economic outcomes of a bespoke 
cognitive-behavioural group treatment (STreSS) with that of enhanced usual care 
(EUC).
METHODS: We obtained complete data on healthcare and indirect costs (i.e. labour 
marked-related and health-related benefits) from public registries for 120 
participants from a randomised controlled trial. Costs were calculated as per 
capita public expenses in 2010 €. QALYs gained were estimated from the SF-6D. We 
conducted a medium-term cost-effectiveness analysis and a long-term 
cost-minimization analysis from both a healthcare (i.e. direct cost) and a 
societal (i.e. total cost) perspective.
RESULTS: In the medium term, the probability that STreSS was cost-effective at 
thresholds of 25,000 to 35,000 € per QALY was 93-95% from a healthcare 
perspective, but only 50-55% from a societal perspective. In the long term, 
however, STreSS was associated with increasing savings in indirect costs, mainly 
due to a greater number of patients self-supporting. When combined with stable 
long-term reductions in healthcare expenditures, there were total cost savings 
of 7184 € (95% CI 2271 to 12,096, p=0.004) during the third year after 
treatment.
CONCLUSION: STreSS treatment costs an average of 1545 €. This cost was more than 
offset by subsequent savings in direct and indirect costs. Implementation could 
both improve patient outcomes and reduce costs.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychores.2017.01.005
PMID: 28183406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. BMJ Open. 2017 Feb 9;7(2):e012374. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-012374.

Associations of participation in community assets with health-related quality of 
life and healthcare usage: a cross-sectional study of older people in the 
community.

Munford LA(1), Sidaway M(2)(3), Blakemore A(2), Sutton M(1), Bower P(2).

Author information:
(1)Manchester Centre for Health Economics, University of Manchester, Manchester, 
UK.
(2)NIHR School for Primary Care Research, Manchester Academic Health Science 
Centre, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(3)Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, Salford, UK.

BACKGROUND: Community assets are promoted as a way to improve quality of life 
and reduce healthcare usage. However, the quantitative impact of participation 
in community assets on these outcomes is not known.
METHODS: We examined the association between participation in community assets 
and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) (EuroQol-5D-5L) and healthcare usage 
in 3686 individuals aged ≥65 years. We estimated the unadjusted differences in 
EuroQol-5D-5L scores and healthcare usage between participants and 
non-participants in community assets and then used multivariate regression to 
examine scores adjusted for sociodemographic and limiting long-term health 
conditions. We derived the net benefits of participation using a range of 
threshold values for a quality-adjusted life year (QALY).
RESULTS: 50% of individuals reported participation in community assets. Their 
EuroQol-5D-5L scores were 0.094 (95% CI 0.077 to 0.111) points higher than 
non-participants. Controlling for sociodemographic characteristics reduced this 
differential to 0.081 (95% CI 0.064 to 0.098). Further controlling for limiting 
long-term conditions reduced this effect to 0.039 (95% CI 0.025 to 0.052). Once 
we adjusted for sociodemographic and limiting long-term conditions, the 
reductions in healthcare usage and costs associated with community asset 
participation were not statistically significant. Based on a threshold value of 
£20 000 per QALY, the net benefits of participation in community assets were 
£763 (95% CI £478 to £1048) per participant per year.
CONCLUSIONS: Participation in community assets is associated with substantially 
higher HRQoL but is not associated with lower healthcare costs. The social value 
of developing community assets is potentially substantial.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-012374
PMCID: PMC5306503
PMID: 28183807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


894. Biosci Rep. 2017 Mar 2;37(2):BSR20160608. doi: 10.1042/BSR20160608. Print
2017  Apr 30.

Mega primer-mediated molecular cloning strategy for chimaeragenesis and long DNA 
fragment insertion.

Zhang H(1)(2), Liu CJ(1), Jiang H(3), Zhou L(2), Li WY(1), Zhu LY(1), Wu L(1), 
Meng E(4), Zhang DY(4).

Author information:
(1)Research Center of Biological Information, College of Science, National 
University of Defense Technology, Changsha, Hunan 410073, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Protein Chemistry and Developmental Biology of the Ministry 
of Education, College of Life Sciences, Hunan Normal University, Changsha, Hunan 
410081, China.
(3)Beijing Institute of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Beijing 102205, China.
(4)Research Center of Biological Information, College of Science, National 
University of Defense Technology, Changsha, Hunan 410073, China 
dongyizhang@nudt.edu.cn er_meng@qq.com.

Molecular cloning methods based on primer and overlap-extension PCR are widely 
used due to their simplicity, reliability, low cost and high efficiency. In this 
article, an efficient mega primer-mediated (MP) cloning strategy for 
chimaeragenesis and long DNA fragment insertion is presented. MP cloning is a 
seamless, restriction/ligation-independent method that requires only three 
steps: (i) the first PCR for mega primer generation; (ii) the second PCR for 
exponential amplification mediated by the mega primers and (iii) DpnI digestion 
and transformation. Most importantly, for chimaeragenesis, genes can be 
assembled and constructed into the plasmid vector in a single PCR step. By 
employing this strategy, we successfully inserted four DNA fragments 
(approximately 500 bp each) into the same vector simultaneously. In conclusion, 
the strategy proved to be a simple and efficient tool for seamless cloning.

© 2017 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1042/BSR20160608
PMCID: PMC5333777
PMID: 28183872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no competing 
interests associated with the manuscript.


895. Ir J Med Sci. 2017 Nov;186(4):947-951. doi: 10.1007/s11845-017-1572-5. Epub
2017  Feb 9.

Simultaneous bilateral total hip arthroplasties in nonagenarians.

Power FR(1), Cawley DT(2), Curtin PD(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Trauma and Orthopaedic Surgery, St. Vincent's University 
Hospital, Dublin 4, Ireland. fiachrapower@rcsi.ie.
(2)Department of Trauma and Orthopaedic Surgery, St. Vincent's University 
Hospital, Dublin 4, Ireland.

Total hip arthroplasty (THA) is an effective and durable treatment option for 
hip osteoarthritis (OA). As life expectancy continues to increase, so too will 
the demand for joint arthroplasty in the 10th decade of life, frequently in 
cases involving osteoarthritis of both hips. Simultaneous bilateral total hip 
arthroplasty (SBTHA) is a valuable therapeutic option in appropriately selected 
patients with bilateral degenerative hip disease, although its use in the very 
elderly is poorly reported on in the literature. A case of bilateral hip OA 
successfully treated with SBTHA in a nonagenarian is presented and the 
literature is reviewed.

DOI: 10.1007/s11845-017-1572-5
PMID: 28185060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Drugs. 2017 Mar;77(3):331-344. doi: 10.1007/s40265-017-0699-z.

Dabigatran Etexilate: A Review in Nonvalvular Atrial Fibrillation.

Blair HA(1), Keating GM(2).

Author information:
(1)Springer, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi Bay, Auckland, 0754, New Zealand. 
demail@springer.com.
(2)Springer, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi Bay, Auckland, 0754, New Zealand.

Dabigatran etexilate (Pradaxa®) is approved in the EU for the prevention of 
stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation 
(NVAF) and one or more risk factors. Dabigatran etexilate is a prodrug of 
dabigatran, a direct inhibitor of thrombin. In patients with NVAF in the 
phase III RE-LY trial, dabigatran etexilate dosages of 110 and 150 mg twice 
daily were noninferior to warfarin with regard to the risk of stroke or systemic 
embolism (primary efficacy endpoint). The higher dosage was associated with a 
significantly lower risk of stroke or systemic embolism than warfarin, with no 
significant between-group difference in the risk of major bleeding (primary 
safety endpoint). Both dosages of dabigatran etexilate were associated with 
significantly lower rates of haemorrhagic stroke, intracranial bleeding and 
life-threatening major bleeding than warfarin. Dabigatran etexilate was also 
effective and generally well tolerated across various patient subgroups. The 
efficacy and tolerability of dabigatran etexilate was maintained for up to 
6.7 years in the RELY-ABLE extension study. Routine anticoagulation monitoring 
is not required in patients receiving dabigatran etexilate, and it is currently 
the only non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulant (NOAC) with a specific 
reversal agent available. Although direct comparisons with other NOACs would be 
beneficial, dabigatran etexilate is a useful option for the prevention of stroke 
and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.

DOI: 10.1007/s40265-017-0699-z
PMID: 28185082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Hepatol Res. 2017 May;47(6):505-513. doi: 10.1111/hepr.12872. Epub 2017 Mar
16.

Mechanism of impairment on liver regeneration in elderly patients: Role of 
hepatic stellate cell function.

Saito Y(1), Morine Y(1), Shimada M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Tokushima University, Tokushima, Japan.

Japan, along with most other countries in the world, is facing an increasingly 
aging population with a prolonged life expectancy. Concurrently, the need for 
medical intervention, including hepatectomy, has also increased for the elderly. 
Although surgical outcomes for older patients are reported to be comparable with 
those for younger patients, additional care in the selection of older patients 
for hepatectomy is considered necessary. Although the effect of aging on human 
liver regeneration is not fully understood, the regeneration of liver tissue 
after hepatectomy in elderly patients is shown to be generally worse than in 
younger patients and, to date, the mechanisms involved in the impairment of 
liver regeneration have not been fully clarified. Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) 
are liver-specific mesenchymal cells that play critical roles in liver 
physiology and fibrogenesis. Recent studies in liver regeneration have 
increasingly focused on HSCs rather than on hepatocytes, Kupffer cells, 
endothelial cells, or infiltrating immune cells and suggest that HSCs might play 
a critical role in liver regeneration. In this review, we summarize the 
mechanisms involved in the impairment of liver regeneration in elderly patients, 
especially focusing on HSCs. We also discuss how HSCs contribute to the 
impairment of liver regeneration.

© 2017 The Japan Society of Hepatology.

DOI: 10.1111/hepr.12872
PMID: 28186674


898. BMJ Open. 2016 Nov 14;6(11):e012564. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-012564.

Narrowing mortality gap between men and women over two decades: a registry-based 
study in Ontario, Canada.

Rosella LC(1)(2)(3), Calzavara A(2), Frank JW(4), Fitzpatrick T(5), Donnelly 
PD(1), Henry D(2)(3)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Public Health Ontario, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(4)Public Health Research and Policy, Usher Institute of Population Health 
Sciences and Informatics, College of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine, 
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(5)Ontario Strategy for Patient-Oriented Research (SPOR) SUPPORT Unit (OSSU), 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Institute of Health Management Policy and Evaluation, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Historically, women have lower all-cause mortality than men. It is 
less understood that sex differences have been converging, particularly among 
certain subgroups and causes. This has implications for public health and health 
system planning. Our objective was to analyse contemporary sex differences over 
a 20-year period.
METHODS: We analysed data from a population-based death registry, the Ontario 
Registrar's General Death file, which includes all deaths recorded in Canada's 
most populous province, from 1992 to 2012 (N=1 710 080 deaths). We calculated 
absolute and relative mortality sex differences for all-cause and cause-specific 
mortality, age-adjusted and age-specific, including the following causes: 
circulatory, cancers, respiratory and injuries. We used negative-binomial 
regression of mortality on socioeconomic status with direct age adjustment for 
the overall population.
RESULTS: In the 20-year period, age-adjusted mortality dropped 39.2% and 29.8%, 
respectively, among men and women. The age-adjusted male-to-female mortality 
ratio dropped 41.4%, falling from 1.47 to 1.28. From 2000 onwards, all-cause 
mortality rates of high-income men were lower than those seen among low-income 
women. Relative mortality declines were greater among men than women for cancer, 
respiratory and injury-related deaths. The absolute decline in circulatory 
deaths was greater among men, although relative deciles were similar to women. 
The largest absolute mortality gains were seen among men over the age of 
85 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The large decline in mortality sex ratios in a Canadian province 
with universal healthcare over two decades signals an important population 
shift. These narrowing trends varied according to cause of death and age. In 
addition, persistent social inequalities in mortality exist and differentially 
affect men and women. The observed change in sex ratios has implications for 
healthcare and social systems.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-012564
PMCID: PMC5129136
PMID: 28186936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


899. Muscle Nerve. 2017 Dec;56(6):E50-E58. doi: 10.1002/mus.25603. Epub 2017 Apr
10.

Physical function and muscle strength in sporadic inclusion body myositis.

Jørgensen AN(1)(2), Aagaard P(2), Nielsen JL(2), Christiansen M(2), Hvid LG(2), 
Frandsen U(2), Diederichsen LP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark.
(2)Department of Sports Science and Clinical Biomechanics, SDU Muscle Research 
Cluster, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.

INTRODUCTION: In this study, self-reported physical function, functional 
capacity, and isolated muscle function were investigated in sporadic inclusion 
body myositis (sIBM) patients.
METHODS: The 36-item Short Form (SF-36) Health Survey and 2-min walk test 
(2MWT), timed up & go test (TUG), and 30-s chair stand performance were 
evaluated. In addition, patients were tested for knee extensor muscle strength 
(isokinetic dynamometer) and leg extension power (Nottingham power rig).
RESULTS: TUG performance was the strongest predictor of self-reported physical 
function (r2 = 0.56, P < 0.05). Knee extension strength and between-limb 
strength asymmetry were the strongest multi-regression indicators of TUG 
performance (r2 = 0.51, P < 0.05). Strength asymmetry showed the strongest 
single-factor (negative) association with 2MWT performance (r2 = 0.49, P < 
0.05).
DISCUSSION: TUG assessment appears to sensitively predict self-perceived 
physical function in sIBM patients. Notably, between-limb asymmetry in lower 
limb muscle strength had a substantial negative impact on motor tasks involving 
gait function. Muscle Nerve 56: E50-E58, 2017.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mus.25603
PMID: 28187529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Drug Saf. 2017 May;40(5):387-397. doi: 10.1007/s40264-017-0506-5.

Sensitivity of the UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink to Detect 
Neurodevelopmental Effects of Medicine Exposure in Utero: Comparative Analysis 
of an Antiepileptic Drug-Exposed Cohort.

Charlton RA(1), McGrogan A(2), Snowball J(2), Yates LM(3)(4), Wood A(5), 
Clayton-Smith J(6)(7), Smithson WH(8), Richardson JL(3), McHugh N(2), Thomas 
SH(3)(9), Baker GA(10), Bromley R(7)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, University of Bath, Claverton Down, 
Bath, BA2 7AY, UK. r.a.charlton@bath.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, University of Bath, Claverton Down, 
Bath, BA2 7AY, UK.
(3)The UK Teratology Information Service, Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(4)Institute of Genetic Medicine, Newcastle University, Central Parkway, 
Newcastle Upon Tyne, UK.
(5)School of Life and Health Sciences, Aston Brain Centre, Aston University, 
West Midlands, UK.
(6)Manchester Centre for Genomic Medicine, Central Manchester University 
Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, 
Manchester, UK.
(7)Division of Evolution and Genomic Sciences, Faculty of Biology, Medicine and 
Health, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(8)Department of General Practice, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(9)Medical Toxicology Centre, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(10)Department of Molecular and Clinical Pharmacology, University of Liverpool, 
Liverpool, UK.
(11)Central Manchester University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester 
Academic Health Science Centre, Manchester, UK.

Comment in
    Drug Saf. 2017 May;40(5):363-364.

INTRODUCTION: Electronic healthcare data have several advantages over 
prospective observational studies, but the sensitivity of data on 
neurodevelopmental outcomes and its comparability with data generated through 
other methodologies is unknown.
OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this study were to determine whether data from the 
UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) produces similar risk estimates to 
a prospective cohort study in relation to the risk of neurodevelopmental 
disorders (NDDs) following prenatal antiepileptic drug (AED) exposure.
METHODS: A cohort of mother-child pairs of women with epilepsy (WWE) was 
identified in the CPRD and matched to a cohort without epilepsy. The study 
period ran from 1 January 2000 to 31 March 2007 and children were required to be 
in the CPRD at age 6 years. AED exposure during pregnancy was determined from 
prescription data and children with an NDD diagnosis by 6 years were identified 
from Read clinical codes. The prevalence and risk of NDDs was calculated for 
mother-child pairs in WWE stratified by AED regimen and for those without 
epilepsy. Comparisons were made with the results of the prospective Liverpool 
and Manchester Neurodevelopment Group study which completed assessment on 201 
WWE and 214 without epilepsy at age 6 years.
RESULTS: In the CPRD, 1018 mother-child pairs to WWE and 6048 to women without 
epilepsy were identified. The CPRD identified a lower prevalence of NDDs than 
the prospective study. In both studies, NDDs were more frequently reported in 
children of WWE than women without epilepsy, although the CPRD risk estimate was 
lower (2.16 vs. 0.96%, p < 0.001 and 7.46 vs. 1.87%, p = 0.0128). NDD prevalence 
differed across AED regimens but the CPRD data did not replicate the 
significantly higher risk of NDDs following in utero monotherapy valproate 
exposure (adjusted odds ratio [ORadj] 2.02, 95% confidence interval [CI] 
0.52-7.86) observed in the prospective study (ORadj 6.05, 95% CI 1.65-24.53).
CONCLUSION: It was possible to identify NDDs in the CPRD; however, the CPRD 
appears to under-record these outcomes. Larger studies are required to 
investigate further.

DOI: 10.1007/s40264-017-0506-5
PMCID: PMC5384950
PMID: 28188601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: FUNDING: This study was supported by a grant 
from Epilepsy Research UK (P1403). Dr Bromley is currently funded by the 
National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) (PDF-2013-06-041). The views 
expressed in this publication are those of the author(s) and not necessarily 
those of the UK National Health Service (NHS), the NIHR or the Department of 
Health. CONFLICT OF INTEREST: Dr. Rachel Charlton holds shares in 
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) and Mrs Julia Snowball holds shares in AstraZeneca and The 
University of Bath has received funding from GlaxoSmithKline for work conducted 
outside this study. Dr. Laura Yates, Professor Simon Thomas and Mr. Jonathan 
Richardson received unconditional non-personal funding from GSK and Baxter, the 
manufacturers of the two swine flu vaccines available in the UK during the 
2009/10 H1N1 pandemic, to support the extension of an existing NIHR health 
technology assessment (HTA)-funded study—H1N1 in Pregnancy Study—to include the 
collection by the UK Teratology Information Service (UKTIS) of observational 
prospective outcome data on women vaccinated during pregnancy with the influenza 
vaccines Pandemrix® (GSK) and Celvapan® (Baxter). This funding was provided to 
the Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust. Dr. Amanda Wood is a 
member of the Australian Pregnancy Register (APR) Executive Committee and 
Scientific Board. The APR received funding from pharmaceutical companies. This 
money was not paid to her or to her institution at any point during this study. 
Dr. Wood participated in a UCB Masterclass in 2015 but declined all payment. 
Professor Jill Clayton-Smith has contributed to studies funded by 
Sanofi-Aventis. Professor Gus Baker has received educational grants from 
Sanofi-Aventis to support this research directly; he has received educational 
grants from UCB Pharma and lecture speaker fees from Sanofi-Aventis, UCB Pharma 
and GSK. Professor Baker has given expert testimony on fetal anticonvulsant 
syndrome. Dr. Rebecca Bromley has previously contributed to studies funded by 
Sanofi-Aventis and UCB Pharma and has received a one-off consultancy payment 
from UCB Pharma for work on an unrelated matter. Professor Neil McHugh, Dr. 
Anita McGrogan and Professor Henry Smithson have no conflicts of interest that 
are directly relevant to the content of this study. ETHICAL APPROVAL: Ethical 
approval has been obtained by the CPRD data provider from a Multi-centre 
Research Ethics Committee (MREC) for all observational studies and the study 
protocol was approved by the CPRD Independent Scientific Advisory Committee 
(14_212R).901. Aust Fam Physician. 2017 Jan/Feb;46(1):26-29.

Healthy ageing.

Sims J(1).

Author information:
(1)PhD, MSc, BSc(Hons), is Adjunct Senior Research Fellow, Department of General 
Practice, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria.

BACKGROUND: The increasing number of people reaching their 80s and 90s has 
triggered multidisciplinary consideration of how to address and capitalise on 
the longevity phenomenon.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this article is to provide an overview of ways in which 
clinicians can work with older patients to optimise their health and wellbeing 
during the later years of life.
DISCUSSION: Old age need not be burdensome to individuals or society. There is 
strong evidence to support the management of many chronic diseases presenting in 
- or extending into - old age. General practice will need to adapt to the 
demographic challenges of an ageing population by targeting conditions that 
impede people from contributing to family and societal life. General 
practitioners (GPs) will also need to adapt to the changing expectations of, and 
from, older patients across the upcoming generations.

PMID: 28189127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. J Dairy Sci. 2017 Sep;100(9):7739-7749. doi: 10.3168/jds.2016-11976. Epub
2017  Feb 8.

Finances and returns for robotic dairies.

Salfer JA(1), Minegishi K(2), Lazarus W(3), Berning E(4), Endres MI(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Minnesota Extension, St. Cloud 56301. Electronic address: 
salfe001@umn.edu.
(2)Department of Animal Science, University of Minnesota, St. Paul 55108.
(3)Department of Applied Economics, University of Minnesota, St. Paul 55108.
(4)University of Minnesota Extension, St. Cloud 56301.

Automatic milking systems (AMS) became commercially available in the early 
1990s. These systems provide flexibility and improve the lifestyle of farmers 
installing them. Because of the larger capital cost per kilogram of milk 
produced, observational studies in Europe and simulation studies have shown AMS 
to be less profitable than milking parlor systems, although previous findings 
are somewhat mixed. Improved performance of newer generations of AMS, better 
facility design to accommodate cow behavior, and better management of these 
facilities have the potential to make AMS more profitable. Wage rates are also 
increasing and sourcing high-quality milking labor is challenging. We developed 
partial budget simulations to model profitability of AMS compared with parlor 
systems for 120-, 240-, and 1,500-cow farms. Both the 120-cow and 240-cow AMS 
were more profitable than the parlor systems. However, the 1,500-cow parlor 
system was more profitable than the AMS. Breakeven labor analysis of the 
1,500-cow system showed that at a wage inflation rate of 1% and a 0.91 kg/d 
lower milk production with the AMS system, the breakeven labor rate was 
$27.02/h. If the farm is able to achieve similar milk production between the 2 
systems and wage inflation averages 3% over the 30-yr time horizon, the 
breakeven wage rate drops to $17.11/h. The major management factors that 
influenced the net annual impact were changes in milking labor cost and milk 
production. Another significant factor affecting net annual impact was the 
economic life of the AMS. An economic life of 13 yr or longer was required for 
an AMS to have a consistently positive net annual impact (depending on milk 
production per cow and labor cost). For every 227-kg increase in daily milk 
production per AMS, net annual income increased approximately $4,100. 
Cost-effective ways to optimize milk per AMS are to minimize attaching and 
milking times and to optimize milking settings.

Copyright © 2017 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2016-11976
PMID: 28189321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Clin Ther. 2017 Mar;39(3):567-580.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2017.01.017.
Epub  2017 Feb 9.

Cost-effectiveness of Pazopanib Versus Sunitinib as First-line Treatment for 
Locally Advanced or Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma from an Italian National 
Health Service Perspective.

Capri S(1), Porta C(2), Delea TE(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Economics and Management, Università Cattaneo-LIUC, Castellanza, 
Italy. Electronic address: scapri@liuc.it.
(2)Policlinico San Matteo, Pavia, Italy.
(3)Policy Analysis Inc, Brookline, Massachusetts, USA.

PURPOSE: A prior randomized controlled trial (COMPARZ [Comparing the Efficacy, 
Safety and Tolerability of Pazopanib versus Sunitinib]) found non-inferior 
progression-free survival for pazopanib versus sunitinib as first-line therapy 
in patients with advanced or metastatic renal cell carcinoma. The present study 
evaluated the cost-effectiveness of pazopanib versus sunitinib as first-line 
treatment for patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma from an Italian 
National Health Service perspective.
METHODS: A partitioned-survival analysis model with 3 health states 
(progression-free survival, post-progression survival, and dead) was employed. 
The model time horizon was 5 years. For each treatment strategy, the model 
generated expected progression-free life years, post-progression life years, 
overall life years, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and costs. Results were 
reported as incremental costs per QALY gained and the net monetary benefit of 
pazopanib versus sunitinib. Probabilistic and deterministic sensitivity analyses 
were conducted to assess the impact on results of methodological and parameter 
uncertainty.
FINDINGS: In the base case, pazopanib was associated with higher QALYs and lower 
costs and dominated sunitinib. Using willingness-to-pay thresholds of €30,000 
and €50,000 per QALY, the net monetary benefits with pazopanib were €6508 and 
€7702 per patient, respectively, versus sunitinib. The probability that 
pazopanib is cost-effective versus sunitinib was estimated to be 85% at a 
cost-effectiveness threshold of €20,000, 86% at a threshold of €30,000, and 81% 
at a threshold of €50,000 per QALY. Results were robust to changes in key 
parameter values and assumptions.
IMPLICATIONS: These results suggest that pazopanib is likely to represent a 
cost-effective treatment option compared with sunitinib as first-line treatment 
for patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma in Italy.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2017.01.017
PMID: 28189363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Mol Genet Metab. 2017 Apr;120(4):370-377. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2017.02.005.
Epub  2017 Feb 7.

UX007 for the treatment of long chain-fatty acid oxidation disorders: Safety and 
efficacy in children and adults following 24weeks of treatment.

Vockley J(1), Burton B(2), Berry GT(3), Longo N(4), Phillips J(5), Sanchez-Valle 
A(6), Tanpaiboon P(7), Grunewald S(8), Murphy E(9), Humphrey R(10), Mayhew 
J(11), Bowden A(11), Zhang L(11), Cataldo J(11), Marsden DL(11), Kakkis E(11).

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh, Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA. Electronic address: gerard.vockley@chp.edu.
(2)Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.
(3)Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.
(5)Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA.
(6)University of South Florida, Morsani College of Medicine, Tampa, FL, USA.
(7)Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC, USA.
(8)Great Ormond Street Hospital, UCL Institute of Child Health, London, UK.
(9)Charles Dent Metabolic Unit, National Hospital for Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, London, UK.
(10)University of Montana, Missoula, MT, USA.
(11)Ultragenyx Pharmaceutical Inc., Novato, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Long-chain fatty acid oxidation disorders (LC-FAOD) lead to 
accumulation of high concentrations of potentially toxic fatty acid 
intermediates. Newborn screening and early intervention have reduced mortality, 
but most patients continue to experience frequent hospitalizations and 
significant morbidity despite treatment. The deficient energy state can cause 
serious liver, muscle, and heart disease, and may be associated with an 
increased risk of sudden death. Triheptanoin is a medium odd-chain fatty acid. 
Anaplerotic metabolites of triheptanoin have the potential to replace deficient 
tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediates, resulting in net glucose 
production as a novel energy source for the treatment of LC-FAOD.
STUDY DESIGN: A single-arm, open-label, multicenter Phase 2 safety and efficacy 
study evaluated patients with severe LC-FAOD evidenced by ongoing related 
musculoskeletal, cardiac, and/or hepatic events despite treatment. After a 
four-week run-in on current regimen, investigational triheptanoin (UX007) was 
titrated to a target dose of 25-35% of total daily caloric intake. Patients were 
evaluated on several age/condition-eligible endpoints, including submaximal 
exercise tests to assess muscle function/endurance (12-minute walk test; 12MWT) 
and exercise tolerance (cycle ergometry), and health related quality of life 
(HR-QoL). Results through 24weeks of treatment are presented; total study 
duration is 78weeks.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients (0.8 to 58years) were enrolled; most qualified 
based on severe musculoskeletal disease. Twenty-five patients (86%) completed 
the 24-week treatment period. At Week 18, eligible patients (n=8) demonstrated a 
28% increase (LS mean=+181.9 meters; p=0.087) from baseline (673.4meters) in 
12MWT distance. At Week 24, eligible patients (n=7) showed a 60% increase in 
watts generated (LS mean=+409.3W; p=0.149) over baseline (744.6W) for the 
exercise tolerance test. Improvements in exercise tests were supported by 
significant improvements from baseline in the adult (n=5) self-reported SF-12v2 
physical component summary score (LS mean=+8.9; p<0.001). No difference from 
baseline was seen in pediatric parent-reported (n=5) scores (SF-10) at Week 24. 
Eighteen patients (62%) had treatment-related adverse events, predominantly 
gastrointestinal (55%), mild-to-moderate in severity, similar to that seen with 
prior treatment with medium chain triglyceride (MCT) oil. One patient 
experienced a treatment-related serious adverse event of gastroenteritis. One 
patient discontinued from study due to diarrhea of moderate severity; the 
majority of patients (25/29; 86%) elected to continue treatment in the extension 
period.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with severe LC-FAOD, UX007 interim study results 
demonstrated improved exercise endurance and tolerance, and were associated with 
positive changes in self-reported HR-QoL.

Copyright © 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2017.02.005
PMID: 28189603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Palliat Med. 2017 Apr;31(4):306-322. doi: 10.1177/0269216316689652. Epub
2017  Feb 13.

The use of Quality-Adjusted Life Years in cost-effectiveness analyses in 
palliative care: Mapping the debate through an integrative review.

Wichmann AB(1), Adang EM(2), Stalmeier PF(2), Kristanti S(1), Van den Block 
L(3), Vernooij-Dassen MJ(1), Engels Y(4); PACE(5).

Author information:
(1)1 IQ healthcare, Radboud Institute for Health Sciences, Radboud University 
Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(2)2 Department for Health Evidence, Radboud University Medical Center, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(3)3 End-of-life Care Research Group, Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB) and Ghent 
University, Brussels, Belgium.
(4)4 Department of Anesthesiology, Pain and Palliative Care, Radboud University 
Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(5)PACE: Palliative Care in Care Homes Across Europe. An EU-funded international 
research project.

BACKGROUND: In cost-effectiveness analyses in healthcare, Quality-Adjusted Life 
Years are often used as outcome measure of effectiveness. However, there is an 
ongoing debate concerning the appropriateness of its use for decision-making in 
palliative care.
AIM: To systematically map pros and cons of using the Quality-Adjusted Life Year 
to inform decisions on resource allocation among palliative care interventions, 
as brought forward in the debate, and to discuss the Quality-Adjusted Life 
Year's value for palliative care.
DESIGN: The integrative review method of Whittemore and Knafl was followed. 
Theoretical arguments and empirical findings were mapped.
DATA SOURCES: A literature search was conducted in PubMed, EMBASE, and CINAHL, 
in which MeSH (Medical Subject Headings) terms were Palliative Care, 
Cost-Benefit Analysis, Quality of Life, and Quality-Adjusted Life Years.
FINDINGS: Three themes regarding the pros and cons were identified: (1) 
restrictions in life years gained, (2) conceptualization of quality of life and 
its measurement, including suggestions to adapt this, and (3) valuation and 
additivity of time, referring to changing valuation of time. The debate is 
recognized in empirical studies, but alternatives not yet applied.
CONCLUSION: The Quality-Adjusted Life Year might be more valuable for palliative 
care if specific issues are taken into account. Despite restrictions in life 
years gained, Quality-Adjusted Life Years can be achieved in palliative care. 
However, in measuring quality of life, we recommend to-in addition to the EQ-5D- 
make use of quality of life or capability instruments specifically for 
palliative care. Also, we suggest exploring the possibility of integrating 
valuation of time in a non-linear way in the Quality-Adjusted Life Year.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216316689652
PMCID: PMC5405846
PMID: 28190374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


906. Iran Red Crescent Med J. 2016 Jun 29;18(11):e23781. doi:
10.5812/ircmj.23781.  eCollection 2016 Nov.

Evaluation of Effective Indexes on Quality of Life Related to Health in Western 
Iran in 2013.

Behzadifar M(1), Behzadifar M(2), Saroukhani M(3), Sayehmiri K(4), Delpisheh 
A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Faculty of Health and Nutritional, Lorestan 
University of Medical Sciences, Khorramabad, IR Iran.
(2)Health Management and Economics Research Center, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Prevention of Psychosocial Injuries Research Center, Ilam University of 
Medical Sciences, Ilam, IR Iran.
(4)Department of Social Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Ilam University of 
Medical Sciences, Ilam, IR Iran.
(5)Department of Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine, Ilam University of Medical 
Sciences, Ilam, IR Iran.

BACKGROUND: Today, indexes regarding longevity and life expectancy have 
increased; the most important issue now is how to spend time loving or in other 
words quality of life.
OBJECTIVES: This study was aimed to evaluate effective indexes on quality of 
life related to health in western Iran in 2013.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this cross-sectional research, 918 families were 
selected among different counties of Ilam Province by multi-stage clustering 
sampling. The data collection instrument was a questionnaire used to measure the 
general economic and quality of life: the SF-36 health status questionnaire. 
Data were analyzed using multivariate regression models.
RESULTS: The mean age of the study participants was 32.97 ± 9.5 years, and the 
mean score for their quality of life was 61.74 ± 12.31. There was a significant 
statistical relationship between people's quality of life and their marital 
status, province of residency, income, economic situation, and life satisfaction 
(P < 0.05). Also, there was a significant and inverse correlation between 
people's age and quality of life (r = 0.21), physical health summary (r = 0.21) 
and mental health summary (r = 0.08).
CONCLUSIONS: The mean quality of life among the individuals studied was in the 
middle level, however, it is important to consider the different dimensions of 
their living situations, such as economic protections, social cooperation, 
ability to present suitable behaviors to solve problems, and living situation, 
especially among deprived people.

DOI: 10.5812/ircmj.23781
PMCID: PMC5292130
PMID: 28191329


907. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2017 Mar;64(3):225-230. doi: 10.1111/lam.12704.

Microbial diversity of different modified atmosphere packed pot-stewed duck 
wings products during 8°C storage.

Ye K(1), Liu M(1), Liu J(1), Jiang J(1), Guo C(2).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Collaborative Innovation Center of Meat Production and Processing, 
Quality and Safety Control, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, 
China.
(2)Nanjing Technical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.

The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of spices and 
packaging films on the bacterial dynamics of pot-stewed duck wings (PSDW) during 
storage at 8°C. The results showed that spices added at a 1 : 1 ratio (weight 
ratio of pungent spices and fragrant spices) could delay the lag period of 
bacterial growth and extend the shelf-life of PSDW. Denaturing Gel Gradient 
Electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis indicated that the predominant bacteria in PSDW 
at the end of storage were Weisella hellenica, Weisella diestrammenae, 
Staphylococcus equorum and Streptococcus parauberis, and spices added at a 1 : 1 
ratio showed better inhibition for bacteria at the end of storage, except for 
W. hellenica. Thus, general-purpose and high barrier films in modified 
atmosphere packaging, had a good barrier effect for the isolation of air, and 
showed no effect on the bacteria. This study will help PSDW processing companies 
to understand the biodiversity of PSDW, and provide a scientific basis for the 
extension of shelf-life.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: This study confirmed that high barrier 
cover film, general barrier base film and spices added at a 1 : 1 ratio (weight 
ratio of pungent and fragrant spices), had a better inhibition effect on 
bacteria in pot-stewed duck wings products, which could be used for processing 
and storage conditions of this product. Simultaneously, the change in the 
bacterial community of this product during 8°C storage was analysed, where the 
predominant bacteria of modified atmosphere packaging pot-stewed duck wings at 
the end of 8°C storage included Weisella hellenica, Weisella diestrammenae, 
Staphylococcus equorum and Streptococcus parauberis.

© 2016 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/lam.12704
PMID: 28191705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2017 Jun;53(6):1010-1016. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2016.12.353. Epub 2017 Feb 10.

Qualitative Study on the Perceptions of Terminally Ill Cancer Patients and Their 
Family Members Regarding End-of-Life Experiences Focusing on Palliative 
Sedation.

Eun Y(1), Hong IW(2), Bruera E(3), Kang JH(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, Institute of Health Sciences, Gyeongsang National 
University, Korea.
(2)Department of Nursing, Gyeongnam Provincial Geochang College, Korea.
(3)Department of Palliative Care and Rehabilitation Medicine, University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, Institute of Health 
Sciences, Gyeongsang National University, Korea. Electronic address: 
newatp@naver.com.

CONTEXT: Patients with terminal cancer experience refractory symptoms in the 
last days of life. Although palliative sedation (PS) is recommended for patients 
suffering unbearable symptoms with imminent death, it requires clear 
communication between physicians and patients/caregivers. Understanding the 
demands and perceptions of patients and caregivers in the end-of-life phase are 
needed for effective communication.
OBJECTIVE: To explore patient experiences regarding end-of-life status and PS.
METHODS: The study was performed between October and December, 2013 with 
eligible terminal cancer patients and their families in a non-religious, 
tertiary healthcare facility in Korea. Eligibility criteria were a hospitalized 
cancer patient with a life expectancy of less than three months and who had 
never experienced PS. Data were collected via face-to-face in-depth interviews 
and analyzed using the constant comparative method of qualitative analysis. 
Saturation was achieved after conducting interviews with 13 patients or 
care-giving family members.
RESULTS: Enrolled patients raised the following issues: 1) simultaneously 
harboring the hope of prolonging life and wishing for a peaceful death, 2) 
experiencing difficulties in having honest conversations with caregivers 
regarding death, 3) possessing insufficient knowledge and information regarding 
PS, and 4) hoping for the decision on PS to be made before suffering becomes too 
great.
CONCLUSION: Terminally ill cancer patients and their caregivers expressed 
conflicting desires in hoping to prolong life and simultaneously wishing to 
experience a peaceful death. Improvements in the communications that occur among 
physicians, patients, and caregivers on the issues of prognosis and PS are 
needed.

Copyright © 2017 American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine. Published 
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2016.12.353
PMID: 28192224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2017 Jun;53(6):1097-1110.e1. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2016.12.350. Epub 2017 Feb 9.

Use of Preventive Medication in Patients With Limited Life Expectancy: A 
Systematic Review.

Poudel A(1), Yates P(2), Rowett D(3), Nissen LM(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Clinical Sciences, Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, 
Australia. Electronic address: a3.poudel@qut.edu.au.
(2)School of Nursing, Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, Australia.
(3)Repatriation General Hospital, Adelaide, Australia.
(4)School of Clinical Sciences, Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, 
Australia.

CONTEXT: Optimal prescribing in patients with limited life expectancy (LLE) 
remains unclear.
OBJECTIVES: This study systematically reviews the published literature regarding 
the use of preventive medication in patients with reduced life expectancy.
METHODS: A systematic literature search was conducted using three databases 
(MEDLINE, EMBASE, and CINAHL). Articles published in English from January 1995 
to December 2015 were retrieved for analysis to identify peer-reviewed, 
observational studies assessing use of preventive medications in patients with 
LLE. Inclusion criteria were: patients with a LLE (less than or equal to 
two years); prescribed/used preventive medications.
RESULTS: Of the 15 studies meeting our eligibility criteria, six were from 
inpatient hospital settings, five in palliative care, three in nursing homes, 
and one in community settings. The most common life-limiting illnesses described 
in the studies were cancer (n = 6), cardiovascular diseases (n = 4), dementia 
and cognitive impairment (n = 2), and other life-limiting illnesses (n = 3). 
Lipid-lowering medications, especially the statins were frequently prescribed 
preventive medication followed by antiplatelets, angiotensin converting enzyme 
inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers, anti-osteoporosis medications, and 
calcium channel blockers. Only four studies reported the instances of medication 
withdrawal.
CONCLUSION: Patients continue to receive medications that are not prescribed as 
symptomatic treatment despite having a LLE. Very few rigorous studies have been 
conducted on minimizing preventive medications in patients with LLE, and expert 
opinion varies on medication optimization at the end of life. A consensus 
guideline that addresses this gap is of paramount importance.

Copyright © 2017 American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine. Published 
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2016.12.350
PMID: 28192226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Exp Dermatol. 2017 Oct;26(10):889-895. doi: 10.1111/exd.13323. Epub 2017 May
3.

Metformin alleviates ageing cellular phenotypes in Hutchinson-Gilford progeria 
syndrome dermal fibroblasts.

Park SK(1), Shin OS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of Medicine, Korea University Guro 
Hospital, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

Metformin is a popular antidiabetic biguanide, which has been considered as a 
candidate drug for cancer treatment and ageing prevention. Hutchinson-Gilford 
progeria syndrome (HGPS) is a devastating disease characterized by premature 
ageing and severe age-associated complications leading to death. The effects of 
metformin on HGPS dermal fibroblasts remain largely undefined. In this study, we 
investigated whether metformin could exert a beneficial effect on nuclear 
abnormalities and delay senescence in fibroblasts derived from HGPS patients. 
Metformin treatment partially restored normal nuclear phenotypes, delayed 
senescence, activated the phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase and 
decreased reactive oxygen species formation in HGPS dermal fibroblasts. 
Interestingly, metformin reduced the number of phosphorylated histone variant 
H2AX-positive DNA damage foci and suppressed progerin protein expression, 
compared to the control. Furthermore, metformin-supplemented aged mice showed 
higher splenocyte proliferation and mRNA expression of the antioxidant enzyme, 
superoxide dismutase 2 than the control mice. Collectively, our results show 
