is characterized. The selection method's characteristics are related to the 
investigation of the RNA binding site model treated at the outset. Finally, real 
binding sites from selection and also from extant natural RNAs (for example, the 
Sulfobacillus guanidinium riboswitch) are connected to the genetic code, and by 
extension, to the evolutionary progression that produced the code. During this 
process, peptides may have been produced directly on an instructive amino acid 
binding RNA (a DRT; Direct RNA Template). Combination of observed stereochemical 
selectivity with adaptation and co-evolutionary refinement is logically 
required, and also potentially sufficient, to create the striking order 
conserved throughout the present coding table.

DOI: 10.3390/life7020013
PMCID: PMC5492135
PMID: 28333103

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


300. Mol Biol Evol. 2017 Jun 1;34(6):1463-1478. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msx094.

Structural History of Human SRGAP2 Proteins.

Sporny M(1), Guez-Haddad J(1), Kreusch A(2), Shakartzi S(1), Neznansky A(1), 
Cross A(3), Isupov MN(3), Qualmann B(2), Kessels MM(2), Opatowsky Y(1).

Author information:
(1)The Mina & Everard Goodman Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, 
Ramat Gan, Israel.
(2)Institute for Biochemistry I, Jena University Hospital, Friedrich Schiller 
University Jena, Jena, Germany.
(3)Department of Biosciences, College of Life and Environmental Sciences, 
University of Exeter, Exeter, United Kingdom.

In the development of the human brain, human-specific genes are considered to 
play key roles, conferring its unique advantages and vulnerabilities. At the 
time of Homo lineage divergence from Australopithecus, SRGAP2C gradually emerged 
through a process of serial duplications and mutagenesis from ancestral SRGAP2A 
(3.4-2.4 Ma). Remarkably, ectopic expression of SRGAP2C endows cultured mouse 
brain cells, with human-like characteristics, specifically, increased dendritic 
spine length and density. To understand the molecular mechanisms underlying this 
change in neuronal morphology, we determined the structure of SRGAP2A and 
studied the interplay between SRGAP2A and SRGAP2C. We found that: 1) SRGAP2A 
homo-dimerizes through a large interface that includes an F-BAR domain, a newly 
identified F-BAR extension (Fx), and RhoGAP-SH3 domains. 2) SRGAP2A has an 
unusual inverse geometry, enabling associations with lamellipodia and dendritic 
spine heads in vivo, and scaffolding of membrane protrusions in cell culture. 3) 
As a result of the initial partial duplication event (∼3.4 Ma), SRGAP2C carries 
a defective Fx-domain that severely compromises its solubility and 
membrane-scaffolding ability. Consistently, SRGAP2A:SRAGP2C hetero-dimers form, 
but are insoluble, inhibiting SRGAP2A activity. 4) Inactivation of SRGAP2A is 
sensitive to the level of hetero-dimerization with SRGAP2C. 5) The primal form 
of SRGAP2C (P-SRGAP2C, existing between ∼3.4 and 2.4 Ma) is less effective in 
hetero-dimerizing with SRGAP2A than the modern SRGAP2C, which carries several 
substitutions (from ∼2.4 Ma). Thus, the genetic mutagenesis phase contributed to 
modulation of SRGAP2A's inhibition of neuronal expansion, by introducing and 
improving the formation of inactive SRGAP2A:SRGAP2C hetero-dimers, indicating a 
stepwise involvement of SRGAP2C in human evolutionary history.

© The Author 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society 
for Molecular Biology and Evolution.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msx094
PMCID: PMC5435084
PMID: 28333212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. PLoS One. 2017 Mar 23;12(3):e0174391. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0174391. 
eCollection 2017.

Years of life lost due to infectious diseases in Poland.

Bryla M(1), Dziankowska-Zaborszczyk E(2), Bryla P(3), Pikala M(2), 
Maniecka-Bryla I(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, the Chair of Social and Preventive Medicine of 
the Medical University of Lodz, Lodz, Poland.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, the Chair of Social and 
Preventive Medicine of the Medical University of Lodz, Lodz, Poland.
(3)Department of International Marketing and Retailing, University of Lodz, 
Lodz, Poland.

PURPOSE: An evaluation of mortality due to infectious diseases in Poland in 
1999-2012 and an analysis of standard expected years of life lost due to the 
above diseases.
METHODS: The study material included a database created on the basis of 
5,219,205 death certificates of Polish inhabitants, gathered between 1999 and 
2012 and provided by the Central Statistical Office. Crude Death Rates (CDR), 
Standardized Death Rates (SDR) and Standard Expected Years of Life Lost (SEYLL) 
due to infectious and parasitic diseases were also evaluated in the study period 
as well as Standard Expected Years of Life Lost per living person (SEYLLp) and 
Standard Expected Years of Life Lost per dead person (SEYLLd). Time trends were 
evaluated with the application of joinpoint models and an annual percentage 
change in their values.
RESULTS: Death certificates report that 38,261 people died due to infectious 
diseases in Poland in the period 1999-2012, which made up 0.73% of the total 
number of deaths. SDR caused by these diseases decreased, particularly in the 
male group: Annual Percentage Change (APC = -1.05; 95% CI:-2.0 to -0.2; p<0.05). 
The most positive trends were observed in mortality caused by tuberculosis 
(A15-A19) (APC = -5.40; 95% CI:-6.3 to -4.5; p<0.05) and also meningitis, 
encephalitis, myelitis and encephalomyelitis (G03-G04) (APC = -3.42; 95% CI:-4.7 
to -2.1; p<0.05). The most negative mortality trends were observed for 
intestinal infectious diseases (A00-A09) Annual Average Percentage Change (AAPC 
= 7.3; 95% CI:3.1 to 11.7; p<0.05). SDR substantially decreased in the first 
half of the study period, but then significantly increased in the second half. 
Infectious and parasitic diseases contributed to a loss of around 37,000 
standard expected years of life in 1999 and more than 28,000 in 2012. During the 
study period, the SEYLLp index decreased from 9.59 to 7.39 per 10,000 population 
and the SEYLLd index decreased from 14.26 to 10.34 years (AAPC = 2.3; 95% 
CI:-2,9 to -1.7; p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Despite smaller numbers of deaths reported from infectious causes 
these diseases still represent a serious problem for Poland compared to 
countries in Western Europe.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0174391
PMCID: PMC5363939
PMID: 28333988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


302. J Econ Entomol. 2017 Apr 1;110(2):421-429. doi: 10.1093/jee/tow275.

Susceptibility of Seven Selected Tomato Cultivars to Tuta absoluta (Lepidoptera: 
Gelechiidae): Implications for Its Management.

Ghaderi S(1), Fathipour Y(1), Asgari S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Faculty of Agriculture, Tarbiat Modares University, 
P.O.Box 14115-336, Tehran, Iran (saeedeh.ghaderi@ modares.ac.ir; 
fathi@modares.ac.ir).
(2)Greenhouse Cultivation Research Department, Tehran Agricultural and Natural 
Resources Research and Education Center, AREEO, Varamin, Iran 
(s.asgari1344@yahoo.com).

Tuta absoluta (Meyrick) (Lepidoptera: Gelechiidae) is a serious pest originating 
from South America that affects tomato production in many countries, 
particularly in Iran (since 2010). In this study, by using age-stage, two-sex 
life-table parameters, the resistance of seven tomato cultivars, namely, 'Primo 
Early', 'Rio Grande', 'Cal JN3', 'Petomech', 'Early Urbana Y', 'Super 2270', and 
'Super Strain B' to T. absoluta, was evaluated under laboratory conditions (25 ± 
1 °C, 60 ± 5% RH, and a photoperiod of 16:8 (L:D) h). Larval and pupal periods 
were longest on Early Urbana Y, 13.86 and 6.52 d, respectively, and shortest on 
Cal JN3, 10.92 and 5.5 d, respectively. The longest and shortest development 
times of immature stages lasted 26.42 and 20.83 d on Early Urbana Y and Cal JN3, 
respectively. Male and female adult longevity was longest on Early Urbana Y, 
30.42 and 38.52 d, respectively, and shortest on Cal JN3, 11.67 and 18.8 d, 
respectively. The net reproductive rate (R0) ranged between 80.94 (Cal JN3) and 
45.87 (Primo Early) offspring. The lowest and the highest values of the 
intrinsic rate of increase (r) and finite rate of increase (λ) were on Early 
Urbana Y and Cal JN3, 0.1052 and 0.1522 and 1.1109 and 1.1644 d-1, respectively. 
The mean generation time (T) on different cultivars varied from 30.47 to 37.28 
d. Our results indicated that Cal JN3 was the most susceptible to infestation 
and Primo Early and Early Urbana Y were the most resistant to T. absoluta among 
the tomato cultivars tested.

© The Authors 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/tow275
PMID: 28334083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. J Econ Entomol. 2017 Apr 1;110(2):755-762. doi: 10.1093/jee/tox033.

Economic Injury Level and Demography-Based Control Timing Projection of 
Spodoptera litura (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) at Different Growth Stages of Arachis 
hypogaea.

Tuan SJ(1), Lee CC(1), Tang LC(1), Saska P(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung 402, 
Taiwan, Republic of China (sjtuan@dragon.nchu.edu.tw; al_1838@hotmail.com; 
lctang@dragon.nchu.edu.tw).
(2)Faculty of Crop Research Institute, Department of Ecology, Czech University 
of Life Sciences, Kamýcká 129, Prague 6 - Suchdol 165 21, Czech Republic ( 
saska@vurv.cz ).
(3)Group Functional Diversity of Invertebrates and Plants in Agroecosystems, 
Crop Research Institute, Drnovsk_ 507, Prague 6 - Ruzyn_ 161 06, Czech Republic.

Spodoptera litura (F.), one of the most devastating pests in many Asian 
countries, is normally controlled by relying on chemical insecticides. To 
encourage an integrated pest management approach, we determined the economic 
injury level (EIL) for S. litura on peanut, Arachis hypogaea L., by larval 
infestation with late instars at different crop growth stages. The cumulative 
consumption rate of the fifth- and sixth-instars was used as the relative unit 
for the "Spodoptera injury equivalent" (SIE). The yield of marketable pods 
significantly decreased from 6.19 to 1.63 g.plant-1 as larval infestation 
intensity increased throughout the entire cropping season. When supplemented 
with timely applications of the insecticide, indoxacarb, an oxadiazine 
insecticide, the EIL values obtained in the larval infestation trial ranged from 
3.26 to 13.47 SIE per 20 plants depending on the timing of initial infestation. 
The economic threshold (ET) for late instars, i.e., multiplying the EIL by 0.75, 
could not be utilized as a control timing index for the outbreak of injurious 
larvae population because of the time-lag. When the occurrence of natural 
mortality in the egg to pupal stage was considered, the ETs were adjusted to 
reflect the average survivorship. ETs of 27.3, 55.9, 51.3, and 112.6 eggs.m-2 
were recommended at the early vegetative growth, blooming/pegging, pod-setting, 
and pod-filling stages, respectively, for initiating control measures. By 
simulating the pest population with the program, Timing-MSChart, we integrated 
the stage-specific EILs and ETs with the life-table data of S. litura on peanut 
and then proposed a demography-based control timing.

© The Authors 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/tox033
PMID: 28334106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. J Econ Entomol. 2017 Jun 1;110(3):1291-1297. doi: 10.1093/jee/tox071.

Oviposition Preference and Larval Performance of Cnaphalocrocis medinalis 
(Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) on Rice Genotypes.

Liao CT(1)(2), Chen CL(3).

Author information:
(1)Taichung District Agricultural Research and Extension Station, COA, 370 Song 
Hwai Rd., Dacun Twp., Changhua County 51544, Taiwan (R.O.C.) ( 
liaoct@tdais.gov.tw ).
(2)Corresponding author, e-mail: liaoct@tdais.gov.tw.
(3)Department of Agronomy, College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, 
National Chung Hsing University, 145 Xingda Rd., South Dist., Taichung City 
40227, Taiwan (R.O.C.) (clchen1@dragon.nchu.edu.tw).

Cnaphalocrocis medinalis Guenée is a noxious rice pest during cultivated 
periods. Cnaphalocrocis medinalis moths lay eggs on leaf surfaces, and larvae 
longitudinally roll the leaves to hide inside the leaf buds and feed on the 
upper epidermis and mesophyll tissues. In this study, we evaluated the female 
oviposition preference and larval performance of C. medinalis on six 
insect-resistant and six insect-susceptible rice genotypes. Female moth choice 
and no-choice oviposition preferences were studied. The number of eggs laid on 
the leaf varies among selected rice genotypes; however, female adults prefer to 
lay more eggs on both some resistant and susceptible rice genotypes. 
Furthermore, newly hatched larvae showed no observed differences in preference 
for both specific resistant and susceptible rice genotypes. The time taken by 
larvae for leaf selection varied significantly after inoculation on different 
genotypes at the maximum tillering and heading stages of rice plants. Compared 
with susceptible genotypes, leaf selection time was prolonged in resistant 
genotypes. In addition, the time taken for folding primary vegetative and flag 
leaves by larvae varied among the selected rice genotypes; larvae required more 
time to fold leaves of resistant than susceptible genotypes. In host antibiosis 
tests, larval and pupal survival and pupal weight were higher in susceptible 
than resistant genotypes. The results showed that the time required by larvae 
for leaf rolling and host antibiosis should be considered as the most crucial 
factors for rice genotypes resistant to C. medinalis.

© The Authors 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/tox071
PMID: 28334207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. J Econ Entomol. 2017 Jun 1;110(3):915-923. doi: 10.1093/jee/tox055.

Does Long-Term Feeding on Alternative Prey Affect the Biological Performance of 
Neoseiulus barkeri (Acari: Phytoseiidae) on the Target Spider Mites?

Li YY(1), Zhang GH(1), Tian CB(1), Liu MX(1), Liu YQ(2), Liu H(3)(4), Wang 
JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Entomology and Pest Control Engineering, College of Plant 
Protection, Southwest University, Chongqing 400716, China (yayinglee@sina.com; 
zghsailing@163.com; tcxb8023@163.com; lmx19960817@163.com; liuhuai@swu.edu.cn; 
wangjinjun@swu.edu.cn).
(2)Collaborative Innovation Center of Special Plant Industry, Chongqing 
University of Arts and Sciences, Chongqing 402160, China (liung906@163.com).
(3)Key Laboratory of Entomology and Pest Control Engineering, College of Plant 
Protection, Southwest University, Chongqing 400716, China ( yayinglee@sina.com ; 
zghsailing@163.com ; tcxb8023@163.com ; lmx19960817@163.com ; liuhuai@swu.edu.cn 
; wangjinjun@swu.edu.cn ).
(4)Corresponding author, e-mail: liuhuai@swu.edu.cn.

The predatory mite Neoseiulus barkeri (Hughes) is a good biological control 
agent for many small sucking pests. We aimed to determine whether rearing long 
term on alternative prey versus target prey species affected the performance of 
N. barkeri. Therefore, we investigated the prey preference, life tables, and 
population parameters of N. barkeri between alternative prey Tyrophagus 
putrescentiae (Schrank) and three species of spider mites, Tetranychus urticae 
Koch, Panonychus citri (McGregor), and Eotetranychus kankitus Ehara. We found 
that N. barkeri preferred the tetranychid mites to the alternative prey. Between 
the tetranychid mites, the predator consumed more P. citri and E. kankitus than 
T. urticae. When reared on T. urticae, the total developmental time and 
longevity of N. barkeri were the longest, whereas the intrinsic rate of increase 
was the lowest, indicating that the biotic fitness of predatory mite preyed on 
target of T. urticae was higher than on alternative prey of T. putrescentiae. 
However, total developmental time, longevity, and fecundity did not differ 
between N. barkeri reared on T. putrescentiae and P. citri, although these 
parameters were higher than those for mites reared on E. kankitus, indicating 
that the predatory mite reared on T. putrescentiae may not be affected to 
control P. citri, and that coexistence of P. citri and E. kankitus may enhance 
the control efficiency of N. barkeri. Altogether, our results demonstrated that 
long-term feeding on the alternative prey T. putrescentiae did not affect the 
performance of the predatory mite N. barkeri on various target spider mites.

© The Authors 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/tox055
PMID: 28334233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. J Econ Entomol. 2017 Jun 1;110(3):1138-1144. doi: 10.1093/jee/tox079.

Lethal and Sublethal Effects of Some Chemical and Biological Insecticides on 
Tuta absoluta (Lepidoptera: Gelechiidae) Eggs and Neonates.

Nozad-Bonab Z(1), Hejazi MJ(2)(3), Iranipour S(1), Arzanlou M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, University of Tabriz, 
Tabriz, Iran (nozadbonab@yahoo.com; mjhejazi@tabrizu.ac.ir; 
shiranipour@tabrizu.ac.ir; Arzanlou@hotmail.com).
(2)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, University of Tabriz, 
Tabriz, Iran ( nozadbonab@yahoo.com ; mjhejazi@tabrizu.ac.ir ; 
shiranipour@tabrizu.ac.ir ; Arzanlou@hotmail.com ).
(3)Corresponding author, e-mail: mjhejazi@tabrizu.ac.ir.

Tuta absoluta (Meyrick) is one of the serious pests of tomatoes. This study was 
conducted to evaluate the effects of some chemical and biological insecticides 
on T. absoluta. The insecticides tested were diazinon, dichlorvos, 
chlorantraniliprole, deltamethrin, acetamiprid, imidacloprid, spinosad, 
abamectin, indoxacarb, Bacillus thuringiensis Berliner, Beauveria bassiana 
(Balsamo) Vuillemin, and Metarhizium anisopliae (Metschnikoff) Sorokin. 
Sublethal effects for the most effective insecticides tested, namely, abamectin, 
spinosad, chlorantraniliprole, and indoxacarb were assessed, and life table 
parameters were calculated. Chlorantraniliprole had the highest lethal effect on 
T. absoluta followed by spinosad, abamectin, and indoxacarb. On the other hand, 
imidacloprid was not considerably effective on T. absoluta eggs. Metarhizium 
anisopliae was 11 and 518 times more effective on the eggs and newly hatched 
larvae than B. bassiana and B. thuringiensis, respectively. Chlorantraniliprole, 
spinosad, abamectin, and indoxacarb affected life table parameters of T. 
absoluta significantly (α = 0.05). Spinosad had the highest sublethal effect on 
T. absoluta followed by abamectin, chlorantraniliprole, and indoxacarb. The 
results revealed that chlorantraniliprole, spinosad, abamectin, and indoxacarb 
had considerable lethal and sublethal effects on T. absoluta, and if they 
perform similarly in commercial greenhouses and fields, they would be suitable 
candidates to be considered in IPM programs for this pest.

© The Authors 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/tox079
PMID: 28334249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. J Econ Entomol. 2017 Jun 1;110(3):1333-1344. doi: 10.1093/jee/tox067.

A Temperature-Dependent Phenology Model for Liriomyza huidobrensis (Diptera: 
Agromyzidae).

Mujica N(1)(2), Sporleder M(3), Carhuapoma P(3), Kroschel J(3).

Author information:
(1)Crop Systems Intensification and Climate Change, International Potato Center 
(CIP), Av. La Molina 1895, Lima 12, Peru ( nmujica@cgiar.org ; 
marcsporleder96@gmail.com ; p.carhuapoma@cgiar.org ; jkroschel@cgiar.org ).
(2)Corresponding author, e-mail: nmujica@cgiar.org.
(3)Crop Systems Intensification and Climate Change, International Potato Center 
(CIP), Av. La Molina 1895, Lima 12, Peru (nmujica@cgiar.org; 
marcsporleder96@gmail.com; p.carhuapoma@cgiar.org; jkroschel@cgiar.org).

Liriomyza huidobrensis (Blanchard) is an economically important and highly 
polyphagous worldwide pest. To establish a temperature-dependent phenology 
model, essential for understanding the development and growth of the pest 
population under a variety of climates and as part of a pest risk analysis, L. 
huidobrensis life-table data were collected under laboratory conditions at seven 
constant temperatures on its host faba bean (Vicia faba L.). Several nonlinear 
equations were fitted to each life stage to model the temperature-dependent 
population growth and species life history and finally compile an overall 
temperature-dependent pest phenology model using the Insect Life Cycle Modeling 
(ILCYM) software. Liriomyza huidobrensis completed development from egg to adult 
in all temperatures evaluated, except at 32 °C, which was lethal to pupae. Eggs 
did not develop at 35 °C. Mean development time of all immature stages decreased 
with increasing temperature. Nonlinear models predicted optimal temperature for 
immature survival between 20-25 °C (32-38% mortality of all immature stages). 
Life-table parameters simulated at constant temperatures indicated that L. 
huidobrensis develops within the range of 12-28 °C. Simulated life-table for 
predicting the population dynamics of L. huidobrensis under two contrasting 
environments showed that lowland temperatures at the coast of Peru (250 
m.a.s.l.) presented better conditions for a potential population increase than 
highland (3,400 m.a.s.l.) conditions. The presented model linked with Geographic 
Information Systems will allow pest risk assessments in different environmental 
regions to support the regulation of pest movement to prevent pest entry into 
not-yet invaded regions as well as to implement effective management strategies.

© The Authors 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/tox067
PMCID: PMC5444682
PMID: 28334271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Drug Alcohol Rev. 2018 Apr;37 Suppl 1:S199-S202. doi: 10.1111/dar.12539.
Epub  2017 Mar 23.

Revisiting the 'paradigm shift' in opioid use: Developments and implications 
10 years later.

Fischer B(1)(2)(3), Rehm J(1)(2)(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Mental Health Policy Research, Centre for Addiction and Mental 
Health, Toronto, Canada.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Institute of Medical Science; and Centre for 
Criminology and Sociolegal Studies, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(3)Centre for Applied Research in Mental Health and Addiction, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, Simon Fraser University, Vancouver, Canada.
(4)Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(5)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(6)Institut für Klinische Psychologie und Psychotherapie, TU Dresden, Dresden, 
Germany.

Comment in
    Drug Alcohol Rev. 2018 Apr;37 Suppl 1:S208-S209.
    Drug Alcohol Rev. 2018 Apr;37 Suppl 1:S206-S207.

A decade ago, we queried the unfolding of a 'paradigm shift' in illicit opioid 
use in North America, specifically involving a shift away from heroin to 
prescription opioid (PO) use. Today, this situation is more acute than ever, 
with prescription opioid misuse, morbidity and mortality amounting to one of the 
most severe substance use-related public health crises ever, now even impacting 
life expectancy in key population segments. Despite medical system-based PO 
dispensing and practices being recognised as core drivers of the PO crisis, 
effective policy measures have been long absent or limited-including those to 
reduce medical PO use to levels supported by best evidence for pain care. At the 
same time, heroin use has been increasing again, now commonly tied into 
interdependent opioid use trajectories, initiated with POs yet shifting to 
heroin as influenced by economic or availability factors. For policy, there are 
now two major and urgent-yet partly conflicting-tasks: one is to reduce the 
determinants of PO misuse and harms by reducing medical prescribing to levels 
supported by good evidence, while the other is to effectively protect those many 
active problematic PO users from acute harms (including overdose mortality) by 
providing effective treatment and survival aids (e.g. naloxone). Surprisingly, 
it appears that a major 'homemade' and medical system-induced drug crisis has 
been at least as challenging for North American policy systems to address as 
other, more conventional illicit drug problems. Lessons for policy hence need to 
be urgently identified and applied for the future. [Fischer B, Rehm J. 
Revisiting the 'paradigm shift' in opioid use: Developments and implications 10 
years later. Drug Alcohol Rev 2017;00:000-000].

© 2017 Australasian Professional Society on Alcohol and other Drugs.

DOI: 10.1111/dar.12539
PMID: 28334467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Nucleic Acids Res. 2017 May 19;45(9):5153-5169. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkx111.

CTG repeat-targeting oligonucleotides for down-regulating Huntingtin expression.

Zaghloul EM(1)(2), Gissberg O(1), Moreno PMD(1)(3)(4), Siggens L(5), Hällbrink 
M(6), Jørgensen AS(7), Ekwall K(5), Zain R(1)(8), Wengel J(7), Lundin KE(1), 
Smith CIE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Clinical Research Center, Karolinska 
Institutet, SE-141 86 Huddinge, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, Faculty of Pharmacy, Alexandria University, 
El-Khartoum square, Azareeta, 21 521 Alexandria, Egypt.
(3)Instituto de Engenharia Biomédica, Universidade do Porto, 4200-135 Porto, 
Portugal.
(4)Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde, Universidade do Porto, 
4200-135, Porto, Portugal.
(5)Department of Biosciences and Nutrition, Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge, 
Sweden, SE-141 86, Huddinge, Stockholm, Sweden.
(6)Department of Neurochemistry, Stockholm University, SE-106 91 Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(7)Department of Physics and Chemistry, Nucleic Acid Centre University of 
Southern Denmark, DK-5230 Odense, Denmark.
(8)Department of Clinical Genetics, Centre for Rare Diseases, Karolinska 
University Hospital, SE-171 76 Stockholm, Sweden.

Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal, neurodegenerative disorder in which 
patients suffer from mobility, psychological and cognitive impairments. Existing 
therapeutics are only symptomatic and do not significantly alter the disease 
progression or increase life expectancy. HD is caused by expansion of the CAG 
trinucleotide repeat region in exon 1 of the Huntingtin gene (HTT), leading to 
the formation of mutant HTT transcripts (muHTT). The toxic gain-of-function of 
muHTT protein is a major cause of the disease. In addition, it has been 
suggested that the muHTT transcript contributes to the toxicity. Thus, reduction 
of both muHTT mRNA and protein levels would ideally be the most useful 
therapeutic option. We herein present a novel strategy for HD treatment using 
oligonucleotides (ONs) directly targeting the HTT trinucleotide repeat DNA. A 
partial, but significant and potentially long-term, HTT knock-down of both mRNA 
and protein was successfully achieved. Diminished phosphorylation of HTT 
gene-associated RNA-polymerase II is demonstrated, suggestive of reduced 
transcription downstream the ON-targeted repeat. Different backbone chemistries 
were found to have a strong impact on the ON efficiency. We also successfully 
use different delivery vehicles as well as naked uptake of the ONs, 
demonstrating versatility and possibly providing insights for in vivo 
applications.

© The Author(s) 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic 
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkx111
PMCID: PMC5435994
PMID: 28334749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2017 Apr;17(2):153-164. doi: 
10.1080/14737167.2017.1311210.

Utility values associated with advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung 
cancer: data needs for economic modeling.

Brown J(1), Cook K(2), Adamski K(2), Lau J(2), Bargo D(3), Breen S(3), Chawla 
A(2).

Author information:
(1)a Global Patient Outcomes and Real World Evidence , Eli Lilly and Company , 
Windlesham , UK.
(2)b Analysis Group, Inc , Menlo Park , CA , USA.
(3)c UK Health Outcomes and HTA team , Eli Lilly and Company Limited , 
Basingstoke , Hampshire , UK.

Cost-effectiveness analyses often inform healthcare reimbursement decisions. The 
preferred measure of effectiveness is the quality adjusted life year (QALY) 
gained, where the quality of life adjustment is measured in terms of utility. 
Areas covered: We assessed the availability and variation of utility values for 
health states associated with advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC) to identify values appropriate for cost-effectiveness models assessing 
alternative treatments. Our systematic search of six electronic databases 
(January 2000 to August 2015) found the current literature to be sparse in terms 
of utility values associated with NSCLC, identifying 27 studies. Utility values 
were most frequently reported over time and by treatment type, and less 
frequently by disease response, stage of disease, adverse events or disease 
comorbidities. Expert commentary: In response to rising healthcare costs, payers 
increasingly consider the cost-effectiveness of novel treatments in 
reimbursement decisions, especially in oncology. As the number of therapies 
available to treat NSCLC increases, cost-effectiveness analyses will play a key 
role in reimbursement decisions in this area. Quantifying the relationship 
between health and quality of life for NSCLC patients via utility values is an 
important component of assessing the cost effectiveness of novel treatments.

DOI: 10.1080/14737167.2017.1311210
PMID: 28335636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol. 2017 Jun 1;312(6):G592-G605. doi: 
10.1152/ajpgi.00416.2016. Epub 2017 Mar 23.

Nutrient sensing by absorptive and secretory progenies of small intestinal stem 
cells.

Kishida K(1), Pearce SC(1), Yu S(2), Gao N(2), Ferraris RP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Physiology and Neurosciences, New Jersey Medical 
School, Rutgers University, Newark, New Jersey; and.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Life Science Center, Rutgers University, 
Newark, New Jersey.

Nutrient sensing triggers responses by the gut-brain axis modulating hormone 
release, feeding behavior and metabolism that become dysregulated in metabolic 
syndrome and some cancers. Except for absorptive enterocytes and secretory 
enteroendocrine cells, the ability of many intestinal cell types to sense 
nutrients is still unknown; hence we hypothesized that progenitor stem cells 
(intestinal stem cells, ISC) possess nutrient sensing ability inherited by 
progenies during differentiation. We directed via modulators of Wnt and Notch 
signaling differentiation of precursor mouse intestinal crypts into specialized 
organoids each containing ISC, enterocyte, goblet, or Paneth cells at relative 
proportions much higher than in situ as determined by mRNA expression and 
immunocytochemistry of cell type biomarkers. We identified nutrient sensing cell 
type(s) by increased expression of fructolytic genes in response to a fructose 
challenge. Organoids comprised primarily of enterocytes, Paneth, or goblet, but 
not ISC, cells responded specifically to fructose without affecting 
nonfructolytic genes. Sensing was independent of Wnt and Notch modulators and of 
glucose concentrations in the medium but required fructose absorption and 
metabolism. More mature enterocyte- and goblet-enriched organoids exhibited 
stronger fructose responses. Remarkably, enterocyte organoids, upon forced 
dedifferentiation to reacquire ISC characteristics, exhibited a markedly 
extended lifespan and retained fructose sensing ability, mimicking responses of 
some dedifferentiated cancer cells. Using an innovative approach, we discovered 
that nutrient sensing is likely repressed in progenitor ISCs then irreversibly 
derepressed during specification into sensing-competent absorptive or secretory 
lineages, the surprising capacity of Paneth and goblet cells to detect fructose, 
and the important role of differentiation in modulating nutrient sensing.NEW & 
NOTEWORTHY Small intestinal stem cells differentiate into several cell types 
transiently populating the villi. We used specialized organoid cultures each 
comprised of a single cell type to demonstrate that 1) differentiation seems 
required for nutrient sensing, 2) secretory goblet and Paneth cells along with 
enterocytes sense fructose, suggesting that sensing is acquired after 
differentiation is triggered but before divergence between absorptive and 
secretory lineages, and 3) forcibly dedifferentiated enterocytes exhibit 
fructose sensing and lifespan extension.

Copyright © 2017 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpgi.00416.2016
PMCID: PMC5495913
PMID: 28336548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Clin Calcium. 2017;27(4):553-559.

[Surgical and non-surgical management of primary hyperparathyroidism:How do 
calcimimetics work?].

[Article in Japanese]

Takeuchi Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Endocrine Center, Toranomon Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

Primary hyperparathyroidism is a common endocrine disease. The first line 
therapy for the disease is surgical removal of affected parathyroid gland(s). 
Other therapeutic options with medication are needed to be established, because 
many of patients with primary hyperparathyroidism have few or no symptoms and 
are expected to have a long life expectancy without surgery. Cinacalcet as a 
calcimimetic, bisphosphonates and denosumab are promising candidates for medical 
management of the disease. Effectiveness and efficiency of these drugs for 
patients with primary hyperparathyroidism is to be evaluated in comparison with 
surgical treatment.

PMID: 28336832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2017 
May;60(5):479-486. doi: 10.1007/s00103-017-2530-0.

[Seven years of the National Action League for People with Rare Diseases : NAMSE 
- a success story?!].

[Article in German]

Halbach A(1), Schnieders B(2), Knufmann-Happe K(2).

Author information:
(1)Bundesministerium für Gesundheit, Friedrichstr. 108, 10117, Berlin, 
Deutschland. alexandra.halbach@bmg.bund.de.
(2)Bundesministerium für Gesundheit, Friedrichstr. 108, 10117, Berlin, 
Deutschland.

It is estimated that four million people in Germany are living with a rare 
disease; in the EU, approximately 30 million people are affected. All rare 
diseases are chronic, linked to invalidity and/or restricted life expectancy, 
and their symptoms are often already manifest in childhood. Some 80% of rare 
diseases are genetically determined; they can rarely be cured. Furthermore, the 
pathogenesis of many rare diseases is unknown.In a move to ameliorate the 
situation of persons with rare diseases, the National Action League for People 
with Rare Diseases (NAMSE) published the National Plan of Action for People with 
Rare Diseases containing 52 measures that aim to achieve the desired 
improvements. More than half of these measures have already been implemented or 
are currently in the process of implementation. The Federal Ministry of Health 
is supporting this implementation process with numerous projects.NAMSE has 
achieved a great deal as a result of the National Plan of Action for People with 
Rare Diseases, even though not all of the measures included in the National Plan 
of Action have been implemented. The first results of individual measures are 
already becoming apparent. In order to achieve long-lasting improvements in the 
prevention, diagnosis and therapy of rare diseases, initiatives will have to be 
coordinated in the future as well.The Federal Ministry of Health will be funding 
the NAMSE Coordinating Office until mid-2018, thus ensuring that NAMSE will 
remain operational until that time. All of the partners collaborating in the 
Action League agree on the need for NAMSE, together with its coordinating 
office, to remain in place. To this end, a structure that keeps the health care 
situation of persons with rare diseases under observation, that suggests 
solutions and offers a possibility for the parties involved to network, is 
necessary. The question of conducting a legal restructuring of NAMSE in the 
future that will be sustainable in the long term is currently under discussion.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-017-2530-0
PMID: 28337510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. J Genet Couns. 2017 Oct;26(5):1144-1152. doi: 10.1007/s10897-017-0093-8.
Epub  2017 Mar 23.

A Psychological Perspective on Factors Predicting Prophylactic 
Salpingo-Oophorectomy in a Sample of Italian Women from the General Population. 
Results from a Hypothetical Study in the Context of BRCA Mutations.

Gavaruzzi T(1), Tasso A(2), Franiuk M(3), Varesco L(3), Lotto L(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Psychology and Socialization, University of 
Padova, via Venezia 8, 35131, Padova, Italy. teresa.gavaruzzi@unipd.it.
(2)Department of Humanities, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy.
(3)Unit of Hereditary Cancer, IRCCS AOU San Martino, IST Istituto Nazionale per 
la Ricerca sul Cancro, Genoa, Italy.
(4)Department of Developmental Psychology and Socialization, University of 
Padova, via Venezia 8, 35131, Padova, Italy.
(5)Center for Cognitive Neuroscience, University of Padova, Padova, Italy.

Comment in
    J Genet Couns. 2018 Sep;27(5):1312-1313.
    J Genet Couns. 2018 Sep;27(5):1314-1315.

The aim of this study was to assess attitudes toward ovarian cancer risk 
management options for BRCA mutation carriers in healthy Italian women, and to 
identify predictors of the preference for risk reducing salpingo-oophorectomy 
(RRSO) over surveillance. One hundred eighty-one women aged 30-45 completed a 
questionnaire about preferences, knowledge, risk perception, and 
socio-demographic information. Participants were randomly presented with a 
pamphlet about BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation-specific testing, consequences of testing 
and preventive options for carriers, and they were stratified by having children 
or not and by age group. Surveillance was the preferred option (64.6%), followed 
by RRSO (24.3%). Although RRSO is the only effective strategy available to BRCA 
carriers, most healthy women faced for the first time with this option may not 
consider it as their preferred choice. Predictors associated with a higher 
likelihood to prefer surgery over surveillance were: knowing that life 
expectancy is longer with surgery, perceived comprehension of the consequences 
of testing, previous knowledge about BRCA testing, anticipated worry about 
developing cancer, and feelings of risk. Childbearing intentions and the effect 
of childbearing intentions on choice were associated with a lower preference for 
surgery. Further research is needed to confirm the role of the factors 
identified in this study in order to promote informed decision-making about 
RRSO.

DOI: 10.1007/s10897-017-0093-8
PMID: 28337671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Pharmacoeconomics. 2017 Jun;35(6):647-659. doi: 10.1007/s40273-017-0500-x.

An Early Health Economic Analysis of the Potential Cost Effectiveness of an 
Adherence Intervention to Improve Outcomes for Patients with Cystic Fibrosis.

Tappenden P(1), Sadler S(2), Wildman M(3).

Author information:
(1)ScHARR, University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield, 
S1 4DA, England, UK. p.tappenden@sheffield.ac.uk.
(2)ScHARR, University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield, 
S1 4DA, England, UK.
(3)Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Sheffield, England, UK.

BACKGROUND: Cystic fibrosis (CF) negatively impacts upon health-related quality 
of life and survival. Adherence to nebulised treatments is low; improving 
adherence is hypothesised to reduce rates of exacerbation requiring intravenous 
antibiotics and lung function decline.
OBJECTIVE: A state transition model was developed to assess the cost 
effectiveness of an intervention aimed at increasing patient adherence to 
nebulised and inhaled antibiotics compared with current CF care, in advance of 
the forthcoming CFHealthHub randomised controlled trial (RCT).
METHODS: The model estimated the costs and health outcomes for each option from 
the perspective of the UK National Health Service and Personal Social Services 
over a lifetime horizon. Health gains were valued in terms of quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) gained. Forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) 
trajectories were predicted over three lung function strata: (1) FEV1 ≥70%, (2) 
FEV1 40-69% and (3) FEV1 <40%. Additional states were included to represent 
'post-lung transplantation' and 'dead'. The model was populated using CF 
Registry data, literature and expert opinion. Costs were presented at 2016 
values. Uncertainty was assessed using deterministic and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: If effective, the adherence intervention is expected to produce an 
additional 0.19 QALYs and cost savings of £64,078 per patient. Across all 
analyses, the intervention dominated current care. Over a 5-year period, the 
intervention is expected to generate cost savings of £49.5 million for the 
estimated 2979 patients with CF with Pseudomonas aeruginosa currently aged 
≥16 years in the UK. If applied to a broader population of adult patients with 
CF receiving any nebulised therapy, the expected savings could be considerably 
greater.
CONCLUSIONS: If effective, the adherence intervention is expected to produce 
additional health gains at a lower cost than current CF care. However, the 
economic analysis should be revisited upon completion of the full RCT. More 
generally, the analysis suggests that considerable gains could be accrued 
through the implementation of adherence interventions that shift care from 
expensive hospital-based rescue to community-based prevention.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-017-0500-x
PMID: 28337719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. J Neurosurg Spine. 2017 Jun;26(6):725-735. doi: 10.3171/2016.9.SPINE16597.
Epub  2017 Mar 24.

Postoperative quality-of-life assessment in patients with spine metastases 
treated with long-segment pedicle-screw fixation.

Bernard F(1), Lemée JM(1), Lucas O(1), Menei P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, CHU d'Angers, France.

OBJECTIVE In recent decades, progress in the medical management of cancer has 
been significant, resulting in considerable extension of survival for patients 
with metastatic disease. This has, in turn, led to increased attention to the 
optimal surgical management of bone lesions, including metastases to the spine. 
In addition, there has been a shift in focus toward improving quality of life 
and reducing hospital stay for these patients, and many minimally invasive 
techniques have been introduced with the aim of reducing the morbidity 
associated with more traditional open approaches. The goal of this study was to 
assess the efficacy of long-segment percutaneous pedicle screw stabilization for 
the treatment of instability associated with thoracolumbar spine metastases in 
neurologically intact patients. METHODS This study was a retrospective review of 
data from a prospective database. The authors analyzed cases in which 
long-segment percutaneous pedicle screw fixation was performed for the 
palliative treatment of thoracolumbar spinal instability due to spinal 
metastases in neurologically intact patients. All of the patients included in 
the study underwent surgery between January 2014 and May 2015 at the authors' 
institution. Postoperative radiation therapy was planned within 10 days 
following the stabilization in all cases. Clinical and radiological follow-up 
assessments were planned for 3 days, 3 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 1 
year after surgery. Outcome was assessed by means of standard postoperative 
evaluation and oncological and spinal quality of life measures (European 
Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire 
Version 3.0 [EORTC QLQ-C30] and Oswestry Disability Index [ODI], respectively). 
Moreover, 5 patients were given an activity monitoring device for recording the 
distance walked daily; preoperative and postoperative daily distances were 
compared. RESULTS Data from 17 cases were analyzed. There were no complications, 
and patients showed improvement in pain level and quality of life from the early 
postoperative period on. The mean ODI score was 62.7 (range 40-84) 
preoperatively, 35.4 (range 24-59) on postoperative Day 3, and 46.1 (range 
30-76) at 3 weeks, 37.6 (range 25-59) at 6 weeks, 34.0 (range 24-59) at 3 
months, 39.1 (range 22-64) at 6 months, and 30.0 (range 20-55) at 1 year after 
screw placement. The mean ODI was significantly improved in the first 45 days (p 
< 0.001). Improvement was also evident in scores for functional and symptomatic 
scales of the EORTC QLQ-C30. All patients underwent postoperative radiation 
therapy within 10 days (mean 7.5). All patients (n = 5) with an activity 
monitoring device showed improvement in daily walking distance. CONCLUSIONS 
Less-invasive palliative treatment for advanced spinal metastases is promising 
as part of a multidisciplinary approach to the care of patients with metastatic 
disease. The results of this study indicate that percutaneous surgery may allow 
for rapid improvement in quality of life and walking ability for patients with 
thoracolumbar instability due to spine metastases. Long-segment percutaneous 
screw fixation followed by early radiation therapy appears to be a safe and 
effective treatment option for providing solid and durable stability and 
improved quality of life for these patients.

DOI: 10.3171/2016.9.SPINE16597
PMID: 28338450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Int J Epidemiol. 2017 Apr 1;46(2):479-491. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyw208.

Sustained 10-year gain in adult life expectancy following antiretroviral therapy 
roll-out in rural Malawi: July 2005 to June 2014.

Price AJ(1), Glynn J(1), Chihana M(2), Kayuni N(2), Floyd S(1), Slaymaker E(3), 
Reniers G(3), Zaba B(3), McLean E(1), Kalobekamo F(2), Koole O(1), Nyirenda 
M(1), Crampin AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Faculty of Epidemiology and 
Population Health, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(2)Karonga Prevention Study, Chilumba, Karonga, Malawi.
(3)Department of Population Health, Faculty of Epidemiology and Population 
Health, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and.

BACKGROUND: Improved life expectancy in high HIV prevalence populations has been 
observed since antiretroviral therapy (ART) scale-up. However, it is unclear if 
the benefits are sustained, and the mortality among HIV-positive individuals not 
(yet) on ART is not well described. We assessed temporal change in mortality 
over 9 years in rural Malawi.
METHODS: Within a demographic surveillance site in northern rural Malawi, we 
combined demographic, HIV and ART uptake data. We calculated life expectancy 
using Kaplan-Meier estimates, and compared mortality rates and rate ratios using 
Poisson regression, by period of ART availability (July 2005-June 2008, July 
2008-June 2011 and July 2011-June 2014).
RESULTS: Among 32 664 individuals there were 1424 deaths; 1930 individuals were 
known HIV-positive, of whom 1382 started ART. Overall, life expectancy at age 15 
years increased by 10 years within 5 years of ART introduction, and plateaued. 
Age-standardized adult mortality rates declined from 11.3/1000 to 7.5/1000 
person-years between the first and last time period. In July 2011-June 2014 
compared with July 2005-June 2008, mortality declined in HIV-positive 
individuals on ART (rate ratio adjusted (aRR) for age, sex, location and 
education, 0.3; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.2-0.5) and in those not (yet) on 
ART (aRR 0.3; 95%CI 0.1-0.5) but not in HIV-negative individuals (aRR 1.1; 95%CI 
0.7-1.9).
CONCLUSIONS: Total population adult life expectancy increased toward that of 
HIV-negative individuals by 2011 and remained raised. The reduction in all-cause 
and HIV-related mortality in HIV-positive individuals not (yet) on ART suggests 
ART uptake is occurring at an earlier disease stage, particularly in women.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
International Epidemiological Association

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyw208
PMCID: PMC5813794
PMID: 28338707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. J Biochem. 2017 Jun 1;161(6):463-470. doi: 10.1093/jb/mvx015.

Paradigm shift from diagnosing patients based on common symptoms to categorizing 
patients into subtypes with different pathogenic mechanisms to guide treatment 
for Alzheimer's disease.

Shirotani K(1)(2), Asai M(1)(2), Iwata N(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genome-based Drug Discovery, Graduate School of Biomedical 
Sciences, Nagasaki University, Nagasaki 852-8521, Japan.
(2)Unit for Dementia Research and Drug Discovery, Graduate School of Biomedical 
Sciences, Nagasaki University, Nagasaki 852-8521, Japan.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a major cause of dementia in the elderly, and the 
number of AD patients is rapidly growing as life expectancy increases. However, 
disease-modifying drugs are not yet available. According to the amyloid 
hypothesis, disease onset is triggered by aggregation and accumulation of 
amyloid-β peptide, followed by the formation of neurofibrillary tangles composed 
of hyperphosphorylated tau, and synaptic loss/neuronal cell death leading to 
dementia. Based on this hypothesis, various clinical trials for treatment of AD 
have been conducted, but most were discontinued due to failure to achieve 
cognitive improvement or appearance of adverse effects. Here we discuss the 
reasons for the failure of these trials. We suggest that biomarkers of specific, 
distinct molecular mechanisms of amyloidogenesis should be developed 
concomitantly with disease-modifying drugs (the so-called companion diagnosis) 
to aid the proper design of clinical trials, as well as to enable personalized 
treatment of individual AD patients.

© The Authors 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Japanese Biochemical Society. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/jb/mvx015
PMID: 28338847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Europace. 2017 Oct 1;19(10):1650-1656. doi: 10.1093/europace/eux002.

Designing an optimal screening program for unknown atrial fibrillation: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Aronsson M(1), Svennberg E(2), Rosenqvist M(2), Engdahl J(2), Al-Khalili F(2), 
Friberg L(2), Frykman V(2), Levin LÅ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Health Sciences, Linkoping University, SE-581 83 
Linkoping, Sweden.
(2)Karolinska Institutet, Department of Clinical Science, Cardiology Unit, 
Danderyd University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

AIMS: The primary objective of this study was to use computer simulations to 
suggest an optimal age for initiation of screening for unknown atrial 
fibrillation and to evaluate if repeated screening will add value.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In the absence of relevant clinical studies, this analysis 
was based on a simulation model. More than two billion different designs of 
screening programs for unknown atrial fibrillation were simulated and analysed. 
Data from the published scientific literature and registries were used to 
construct the model and estimate lifelong effects and costs. Costs and effects 
generated by 2 147 483 648 different screening designs were calculated and 
compared. Program designs that implied worse clinical outcome and were less 
cost-effective compared to other programs were excluded from the analysis. Seven 
program designs were identified, and considered to be cost effective depending 
on what the health-care decision makers are ready to pay for gaining a 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Screening at the age of 75 implied the lowest 
cost per gained QALY (€4 800/QALY).
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, examining the results of more than two billion 
simulated screening program designs for unknown atrial fibrillation, seven 
designs were deemed cost-effective depending on how much we are prepared to pay 
for gaining QALYs. Our results showed that repeated screening for atrial 
fibrillation implied additional health benefits to a reasonable cost compared to 
one-off screening.

Published on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. 
© The Author 2017. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/eux002
PMID: 28340009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Environ Res. 2017 Jul;156:87-96. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2017.03.026. Epub
2017  Mar 21.

National and sub-national age-sex specific and cause-specific mortality and 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) attributable to household air pollution 
from solid cookfuel use (HAP) in Iran, 1990-2013.

Abtahi M(1), Koolivand A(2), Dobaradaran S(3), Yaghmaeian K(4), Mohseni-Bandpei 
A(1), Khaloo SS(5), Jorfi S(6), Saeedi R(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health Engineering, School of Public Health, 
Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Environmental Health Engineering, Faculty of Health, Arak 
University of Medical Sciences, Arak, Iran.
(3)The Persian Gulf Marine Biotechnology Research Center, Bushehr University of 
Medical Sciences, Bushehr, Iran; Department of Environmental Health Engineering, 
Faculty of Health, Bushehr University of Medical Sciences, Bushehr, Iran; 
Systems Environmental Health, Oil, Gas and Energy Research Center, Bushehr 
University of Medical Sciences, Bushehr, Iran.
(4)Department of Environmental Health Engineering, School of Public Health and 
Institute for Environmental Research, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(5)School of Health, Safety and Environment, Shahid Beheshti University of 
Medical Sciences, P.O. Box 16858-116, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Environmental Technology Research Center, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of 
Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran; Department of Environmental Health Engineering, 
School of Public Health, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, 
Ahvaz, Iran.
(7)Department of Health Sciences, School of Health, Safety and Environment, 
Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic 
address: r.saeedi@sbmu.ac.ir.

National and sub-national mortality, years of life lost due to premature 
mortality (YLLs), years lived with disability (YLDs) and disability-adjusted 
life years (DALYs) for household air pollution from solid cookfuel use (HAP) in 
Iran, 1990-2013 were estimated based on the Global Burden of Disease Study 2013 
