cirugia y complicaciones posquirurgicas. Resultados. Se observa una influencia 
de la edad en las complicaciones quirurgicas locales (p = 0,006) y sistemicas (p 
= 0,034) y en la escala de Clavien-Dindo (p = 0,001). Las personas con peor 
estado funcional y riesgo cardiovascular presentaron mas complicaciones 
sistemicas (p = 0,006 y 0,044) y peor graduacion en dicha escala (p = 0,024 y 
0,025). Asimismo, hallamos mas complicaciones locales en las cirugias de 
exeresis que en las biopsias (p = 0,027). El estado preanestesico y los 
tratamientos antihemostaticos no se relacionaron con dichos eventos. 
Conclusiones. Los pacientes mayores de 65 años presentan una mayor incidencia de 
antecedentes patologicos y peor estado funcional prequirurgico. La edad, el 
riesgo cardiovascular, el estado funcional y el tipo de cirugia han aumentado de 
manera significativa las complicaciones posquirurgicas.

PMID: 28169411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Musculoskelet Sci Pract. 2017 Jan;27 Suppl 1:S47-S53. doi: 
10.1016/j.msksp.2016.11.011.

The immediate effects of exercise using the Functional Re-adaptive Exercise 
Device on lumbopelvic kinematics in people with and without low back pain.

Winnard A(1), Debuse D(1), Wilkinson M(1), Tahmosybayat R(1), Caplan N(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, Northumbria University, Newcastle upon 
Tyne, United Kingdom.
(2)Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, Northumbria University, Newcastle upon 
Tyne, United Kingdom. Electronic address: nick.caplan@northumbria.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Dysfunction of the lumbar multifidus (LM) and transversus abdominis 
(TrA) muscles is associated with low back pain (LBP). The Functional Re-adaptive 
Exercise Device (FRED) has shown potential as a non-specific LBP intervention by 
automatically recruiting LM and TrA. Loss or lordosis and altered lumbopelvic 
positioning has also been linked to LBP and is often trained within LM and TrA 
interventions. The effect that FRED exercise has on lumbopelvic positioning and 
lumbar lordosis is unknown.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effect of FRED exercise on lumbopelvic kinematics and 
alignment to establish whether FRED exercise promotes a favourable lumbopelvic 
posture for training LM and TrA.
DESIGN: Within and between-group comparison study.
METHOD: One hundred and thirty participants, 74 experiencing LBP, had 
lumbopelvic kinematic data measured during over-ground walking and FRED 
exercise. Magnitude-based inferences were used to compare walking with FRED 
exercise within participants and between the asymptomatic and LBP groups, to 
establish the effects of FRED exercise on lumbopelvic kinematics, compared to 
walking, in each group.
RESULTS: FRED exercise promotes an immediate change in anterior pelvic tilt by 
8.7° compared to walking in the no-LBP and LBP groups. Sagittal-plane spinal 
extension increased during FRED exercise at all spinal levels by 0.9° in the 
no-LBP group, and by 1.2° in the LBP group.
CONCLUSIONS: FRED exercise promotes a lumbopelvic position more conducive to LM 
and TrA training than walking in both asymptomatic people and those with LBP.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.msksp.2016.11.011
PMID: 28173931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. J Phys Ther Sci. 2016 Dec;28(12):3454-3457. doi: 10.1589/jpts.28.3454. Epub
2016  Dec 27.

Characteristics of physical activity in patients with critical limb ischemia.

Sakaki S(1), Takahashi T(2), Matsumoto J(1), Kubo K(1), Matsumoto T(1), 
Hishinuma R(1), Terabe Y(3), Ando H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation, Kasukabe Chuo General Hospital, Japan.
(2)School of Health Sciences, Tokyo University of Technology, Japan.
(3)Department of Cosmetic and Plastic Surgery, Saitamana Medical University 
International Medical Center, Japan.
(4)Department of Cardiology, Kasukabe Chuo General Hospital, Japan.

[Purpose] The purpose of this study was to evaluate the amount of physical 
activity of the patients with critical limb ischemia consecutively in order to 
clarify the characteristics of physical activity of critical limb ischemia. 
[Subjects and Methods] Twelve patients who were eligible for the 2 months of 
consecutive evaluation of the amount of physical activity were enrolled in the 
study (men: 11; woman: 1; mean age: 64.4 [range: 44-80]). A pedometer with an 
accelerometer was used for the measurement of the number of steps walked as an 
index of the amount of physical activity. Participants were asked to lead a 
regular life and no instruction was given as to the number of steps. [Results] 
The average number of daily steps walked was 2,323 steps (range: 404-6,505). 
There was no clear tendency in the number of amputation site-specific steps 
walked. There was also no correlation between the number of steps walked and age 
as well as the maximum strength of the knee-extension muscle, skin perfusion 
pressure of the sole and the dorsum, and QOL scores. [Conclusion] The number of 
steps walked of the patients with critical limb ischemia was remarkably low and 
no significant association with health-related QOL.

DOI: 10.1589/jpts.28.3454
PMCID: PMC5276781
PMID: 28174472


869. Clin Mol Allergy. 2017 Feb 3;15:2. doi: 10.1186/s12948-017-0059-2.
eCollection  2017.

Allergic diseases in the elderly: biological characteristics and main 
immunological and non-immunological mechanisms.

Ventura MT(1), Scichilone N(2), Paganelli R(3), Minciullo PL(4), Patella 
V(5)(6), Bonini M(7), Passalacqua G(8), Lombardi C(9), Simioni L(10), Ridolo 
E(11), Del Giacco SR(12), Gangemi S(4), Canonica GW(8).

Author information:
(1)Interdisciplinary Department of Medicine, Unit of Geriatric 
Immunoallergology, University of Bari Medical School, Bari, Italy.
(2)DIBIMIS, University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy.
(3)Laboratory of Immunology and Allergy, Department of Medicine and Sciences of 
Aging, University of G. d'Annunzio, Chieti, Italy.
(4)Division and School of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Department of 
Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University Hospital of Messina, Messina, 
Italy.
(5)Division of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Department of Medicine, 
Battipaglia Hospital, Battipaglia, Salerno, Italy.
(6)School of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, University of Naples Federico II, 
Naples, Italy.
(7)National Heart and Lung Institute (NHLI), Imperial College London & Royal 
Brompton Hospital, London, UK.
(8)Allergy and Respiratory Diseases, IRCCS San Martino-IST-University of Genoa, 
Genoa, Italy.
(9)Departmental Unit of AllergologyClinical Immunology & Pneumology, Fondazione 
Poliambulanza Hospital, Brescia, Italy.
(10)Department of Medicine, Allergy Service, ULSS 2 Feltre, Belluno, Italy.
(11)Experimental and Clinical Medicine, University of Parma, Parma, Italy.
(12)Department of Medical Sciences "M. Aresu", University of Cagliari, Cagliari, 
Italy.

Life expectancy and the number of elderly people are progressively increasing 
around the world. Together with other pathologies, allergic diseases also show 
an increasing incidence in geriatric age. This is partly due to the growing 
emphasis on a more accurate and careful diagnosis of the molecular mechanisms 
that do not allow to ignore the real pathogenesis of many symptoms until now 
unknown, and partly to the fact that the allergic people from 20 years ago 
represent the elderly population now. Moreover, environmental pollution 
predisposes to the onset of allergic asthma and dermatitis which are the result 
of internal pathologies more than the expression of allergic manifestations. At 
the same time the food contamination permits the onset of allergic diseases 
related to food allergy. In this review we provide the state of the art on the 
physiological changes in the elderly responsible for allergic diseases, their 
biological characteristics and the major immunological and extra immunological 
mechanisms. Much emphasis is given to the management of several diseases in the 
elderly, including anaphylactic reactions. Moreover, some new features are 
discussed, such as management of asthma with the support of physical activity 
and the use of the AIT as prevention of respiratory diseases and for the purpose 
of a real and long lasting benefit. The mechanisms of adverse reactions to drugs 
are also discussed, due to their frequency in this age, especially in 
polytherapy regimens. Study of the modifications of the immune system is also of 
great importance, as regards to the distribution of the lymphocytes and also the 
presence of a chronic inflammatory disease related to the production of 
cytokines, especially in prevision of all the possible therapies to be adopted 
to allow an active and healthy aging.

DOI: 10.1186/s12948-017-0059-2
PMCID: PMC5290673
PMID: 28174512


870. Rom J Morphol Embryol. 2016;57(4):1253-1259.

The role of clinical and pathological assessment in choosing the best 
therapeutic management to improve survival in rectal cancer.

Russu PC(1), Molnar C, Gurzu S, Jung I, Voidăzan TS, Copotoiu C.

Author information:
(1)1st Department of Surgery, Emergency County Hospital, University of Medicine 
and Pharmacy of Tirgu Mures, Romania; molnar.calin@yahoo.com.

The main target in rectal cancer management is an individualized therapeutic 
strategy, based on tumor and patient characteristics. The assessment of clinical 
and pathological factors is important because they represent powerful predictors 
of the postoperative outcome and have to be considered in the decision making 
regarding the appropriate surgical technique. The aim of the study was to 
analyze how the tumor clinical and pathological features correlate with the 
chosen type of surgical intervention in influencing survival of rectal cancer 
patients. We ran a retrospective study on 289 patients (N=289) surgically 
treated for rectal cancer. We analyzed the individual influence of the studied 
parameter on survival rate in multivariate analysis and we also grouped them in 
associations of parameter variations and performed a survival analysis for 
prognostic univariate analysis. For patients with vascular and lymphatic 
invasion and without perineural invasion, choosing a sphincter function 
preserving technique brought a better long-term outcome. The TNM stages showed 
the strongest statistically significant effect upon survival. Patients in T3 or 
T4 stage benefited best from a performed sphincter saving technique and the 
positive effect was even higher for those in N1 stage. Assessment of 
pathological parameters, in association with the type of the surgical procedure, 
has a strong predictive value upon survival. Sphincter function preserving 
techniques are followed by good long-term outcome. Accurate preoperative staging 
can help in choosing the best individualized therapeutic management improving 
the life expectancy of patients with rectal cancer.

PMID: 28174791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Rom J Morphol Embryol. 2016;57(4):1279-1284.

Hepatoprotective effect of Syringae vulgaris flos ethanolic extracts in 
streptozotocin-induced diabetes in rats.

Berbecaru-Iovan A(1), Stănciulescu EC, Andrei AM, Berbecaru-Iovan S, Gîrd CE, 
Dumitrescu CI, BaniŢă IM, Pisoschi CG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Medicine and Pharmacy of Craiova, 
Romania; camiparsot@yahoo.com.

Taking account of increasing world population life expectancy, health services 
will face with a large number of elderly people with chronic age-related 
diseases. It has been established that chronic diseases are usually accompanied 
by oxidative stress induced by the overproduction of reactive oxygen species 
damaging cellular constituents, under conditions of weakening antioxidant 
defense systems. The balance between free radicals and antioxidant endogenous 
systems has a defining role in preventing the damage of macromolecules. In 
addition to the enzymatic (catalase, superoxide dismutase, glutathione 
peroxidase, glutathione reductase) and non-enzymatic (vitamins A, C, E) 
endogenous systems, a good source of natural antioxidants are medicinal herbs 
products or phytochemical compounds. The aim of this study is to evaluate the 
hepatoprotective effect of Syringae vulgaris flos ethanolic extracts in a rat 
model of streptozotocin-induced diabetes.

PMID: 28174794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Handb Exp Pharmacol. 2017;242:163-178. doi: 10.1007/164_2016_90.

Lens: Management of Cataract Surgery, Cataract Prevention, and Floppy Iris 
Syndrome.

Crispim J(1)(2), Chamon W(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Federal University of São 
Paulo (UNIFESP), Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Illinois Eye and Ear Infirmary, Department of Ophthalmology and Visual 
Sciences, University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC), Chicago, IL, USA.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Federal University of São 
Paulo (UNIFESP), Sao Paulo, Brazil. wchamon@pobox.com.
(4)Illinois Eye and Ear Infirmary, Department of Ophthalmology and Visual 
Sciences, University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC), Chicago, IL, USA. 
wchamon@pobox.com.
(5)Foton Oftalmologia, R. Olimpiadas, 134/51, São Paulo, SP, 04551-000, Brazil. 
wchamon@pobox.com.

According to the World Health Organization, cataract is the major cause of 
reversible visual impairment in the world. It is present as the cause of 
decreased visual acuity in 33% of the visual impaired citizens. With the 
increase of life expectancy in the last decades, the number of patients with 
cataract is expected to grow for the next 20 years. Nowadays, the only effective 
treatment for cataracts is surgery and its surgical outcomes have been 
increasingly satisfactory with the technological advancement.Pharmaceutical 
development has been also responsible for surgical outcomes enhancement. This 
includes the development of new ophthalmic viscoelastic devices (OVDs), 
intraocular dyes, mydriatics, miotics, anesthetics, irrigating solutions, and 
antibiotics. However, the increased costs and demand for cataract surgery may be 
hard to meet in the future unless clinical preventive and curative options are 
evaluated.In this chapter, we review the studies that addressed pharmacological 
applications in cataract.

DOI: 10.1007/164_2016_90
PMID: 28176044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Pharmacoeconomics. 2017 Aug;35(8):805-815. doi: 10.1007/s40273-017-0488-2.

Adalimumab for Treating Moderate-to-Severe Hidradenitis Suppurativa: An Evidence 
Review Group Perspective of a NICE Single Technology Appraisal.

Tappenden P(1), Carroll C(2), Stevens JW(2), Rawdin A(2), Grimm S(2), Clowes 
M(2), Kaltenthaler E(2), Ingram JR(3), Collier F(4), Ghazavi M(5).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, ScHARR, University of Sheffield, 
Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield, S1 4DA, England, UK. 
p.tappenden@sheffield.ac.uk.
(2)Health Economics and Decision Science, ScHARR, University of Sheffield, 
Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield, S1 4DA, England, UK.
(3)Institute of Infection and Immunity, Cardiff University, Cardiff, UK.
(4)Stirling Community Hospital, Stirling, UK.
(5)Nottingham NHS Treatment Centre, Nottingham, UK.

As part of its single technology appraisal (STA) process, the UK National 
Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) invited the manufacturer of 
adalimumab (AbbVie) to submit evidence on the clinical effectiveness and cost 
effectiveness of adalimumab for the treatment of moderate-to-severe hidradenitis 
suppurativa (HS). The appraisal assessed adalimumab as monotherapy in adult 
patients with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS therapy. The 
School of Health and Related Research Technology Appraisal Group was 
commissioned to act as the independent Evidence Review Group (ERG). The ERG 
produced a critical review of the evidence for the clinical effectiveness and 
cost effectiveness of the technology based on the company's submission to NICE. 
The evidence was mainly derived from three randomised controlled trials 
comparing adalimumab with placebo in adults with moderate-to-severe HS. The 
clinical-effectiveness review found that significantly more patients achieved a 
clinical response in the adalimumab groups than in the control groups but that 
the treatment effect varied between trials and there was uncertainty regarding 
its impact on a range of other relevant outcomes as well as long-term efficacy. 
The company's submitted Markov model assessed the incremental cost effectiveness 
of adalimumab versus standard care for the treatment of HS from the perspective 
of the UK NHS and Personal Social Services (PSS) over a lifetime horizon. The 
original submitted model, including a patient access scheme (PAS), suggested 
that the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for adalimumab versus 
standard care was expected to be £16,162 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
gained. Following a critique of the model, the ERG's preferred base case, which 
corrected programming errors and structural problems surrounding discontinuation 
rules and incorporated a lower unit cost for HS surgery, resulted in a 
probabilistic ICER of £29,725 per QALY gained. Based on additional analyses 
undertaken by the company and the ERG following the publication of the appraisal 
consultation document (ACD), the Appraisal Committee concluded that the maximum 
possible ICER for adalimumab compared with supportive care was between £28,500 
and £33,200 per QALY gained but was likely to be lower. The Appraisal Committee 
recommended adalimumab (with the PAS) for the treatment of active 
moderate-to-severe HS in adults whose disease has not responded to conventional 
systemic therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-017-0488-2
PMID: 28176188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. J Bone Miner Res. 2017 Jun;32(6):1165-1173. doi: 10.1002/jbmr.3066. Epub
2017  Feb 8.

Long-Term Randomized Trial of Intensive Versus Symptomatic Management in Paget's 
Disease of Bone: The PRISM-EZ Study.

Tan A(1), Goodman K(2), Walker A(2), Hudson J(3), MacLennan GS(3), Selby 
PL(4)(5), Fraser WD(6), Ralston SH(1)(2); PRISM-EZ Trial Group.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Genomic and Experimental Medicine, MRC Institute of Genetics and 
Molecular Medicine, University of Edinburgh, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh 
EH4 2XU, UK.
(2)Edinburgh Clinical Trials Unit, University of Edinburgh, Western General 
Hospital, Edinburgh, EH4 2XU, UK.
(3)Health Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.
(4)Institute of Human Development, Faculty of Medical and Human Sciences, 
University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(5)Manchester Royal Infirmary, Central Manchester University Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, Manchester, UK.
(6)Department of Medicine, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK.

Comment in
    J Bone Miner Res. 2017 Jun;32(6):1163-1164.

It has been suggested that normalization of bone turnover may improve clinical 
outcome in Paget's disease of bone (PDB) by preventing complications such as 
fractures and the development of osteoarthritis. Here we investigated the 
long-term effects of a treatment strategy that aimed to normalize bone turnover 
in PDB with that of symptomatic treatment. The study group comprised 502 
subjects who were enrolled into a 3-year extension of the Paget's Disease: 
Randomized Trial of Intensive versus Symptomatic Management (PRISM) study. 
Intensive bisphosphonate therapy was continued in 270 of these subjects with the 
aim of normalizing bone turnover using zoledronic acid as the treatment of first 
choice. Symptomatic treatment continued in 232 subjects in whom bisphosphonates 
were only given for the treatment of bone pain. The primary outcome was fracture 
and secondary outcomes were orthopedic procedures, quality of life, and bone 
pain, adjusted for baseline characteristics. Serum total alkaline phosphatase 
(ALP) concentrations were significantly lower in the intensive group on entry to 
the study and the differences between groups increased as the study progressed. 
There were no clinically important differences in quality of life measures or 
bone pain between the treatment groups. Intensive treatment was associated with 
a nonsignificant increase in fracture risk (hazard ratio = 1.90; 95% CI, 0.91 to 
3.98; p = 0.087), orthopedic procedures (1.81; 95% CI, 0.71 to 4.61; p = 0.214), 
and serious adverse events (relative risk 1.28; 95% CI, 0.96 to 1.42). We 
conclude that long-term intensive bisphosphonate therapy confers no clinical 
benefit over symptomatic therapy and is associated with a nonsignificant 
increase in the risk of fractures, orthopedic events, and serious adverse 
events. The results of this study suggest that in patients with established PDB, 
bisphosphonate therapy should focus on control of symptoms rather than 
suppression of bone turnover. © 2016 American Society for Bone and Mineral 
Research.

© 2016 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.

DOI: 10.1002/jbmr.3066
PMID: 28176386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Clin Interv Aging. 2017 Jan 21;12:161-173. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S119327.
eCollection  2017.

Onset of mortality increase with age and age trajectories of mortality from all 
diseases in the four Nordic countries.

Dolejs J(1), Marešová P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Informatics and Quantitative Methods.
(2)Department of Economics, Faculty of Informatics and Management, University of 
Hradec Králové, Hradec Králové, Czech Republic.

BACKGROUND: The answer to the question "At what age does aging begin?" is 
tightly related to the question "Where is the onset of mortality increase with 
age?" Age affects mortality rates from all diseases differently than it affects 
mortality rates from nonbiological causes. Mortality increase with age in adult 
populations has been modeled by many authors, and little attention has been 
given to mortality decrease with age after birth.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Nonbiological causes are excluded, and the category "all 
diseases" is studied. It is analyzed in Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden 
during the period 1994-2011, and all possible models are screened. Age 
trajectories of mortality are analyzed separately: before the age category where 
mortality reaches its minimal value and after the age category.
RESULTS: Resulting age trajectories from all diseases showed a strong minimum, 
which was hidden in total mortality. The inverse proportion between mortality 
and age fitted in 54 of 58 cases before mortality minimum. The Gompertz model 
with two parameters fitted as mortality increased with age in 17 of 58 cases 
after mortality minimum, and the Gompertz model with a small positive quadratic 
term fitted data in the remaining 41 cases. The mean age where mortality reached 
minimal value was 8 (95% confidence interval 7.05-8.95) years. The figures 
depict an age where the human population has a minimal risk of death from 
biological causes.
CONCLUSION: Inverse proportion and the Gompertz model fitted data on both sides 
of the mortality minimum, and three parameters determined the shape of the 
age-mortality trajectory. Life expectancy should be determined by the two 
standard Gompertz parameters and also by the single parameter in the model c/x. 
All-disease mortality represents an alternative tool to study the impact of age. 
All results are based on published data.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S119327
PMCID: PMC5268335
PMID: 28176929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


876. G Ital Nefrol. 2017 Jan-Feb;34(1):gin/34.1.5.

[Atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome related to Oxalyplatin Cancer Chemotherapy 
responsive to Eculizumab].

[Article in Italian]

Zanchelli F, Tampieri E, Gozzetti F, Monti M, Martelli D, Graziani R, Zuffa E, 
Vincenzi D, Gamboni A, Buscaroli A.

We describe the case of a patient with adenocarcinoma of the colon treated with 
FOLFOX-4 (5-Fluorouracil, Folinic acid, Oxalyplatin), with subsequent appearance 
of atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS). From 1999 to 2009, 13 cases of 
atypical HUS receiving chemotherapy with oxaliplatin have been described, as 
well as some sporadic cases. None of these cases has been treated with 
eculizumab. This is the first report of a patient with aHUS secondary to 
Oxalyplatin treated with Eculizumab. This treatment induced a complete remission 
of the syndrome and, later on, it has been discontinued with clinical and 
laboratory permanent remission. We identified some genetic mutations in this 
patient that might have a pathogenic role in the determining aHUS when 
associated with exposure to Oxalyplatin. Oxalyplatin withdrawal and its 
replacement to Irinotecan allowed the patient to receive first line chemotherapy 
continuation (FOLFIRI) with the same life expectancy and the same symptoms free 
period.

PMID: 28177095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Paediatr Anaesth. 2017 Mar;27(3):322-324. doi: 10.1111/pan.13081. Epub 2017
Feb  8.

Perioperative considerations in infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy.

Sinskey JL(1), Holzman RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative and Pain Medicine, Boston 
Children's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

Infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy is a rare neurological disorder that is 
universally fatal with life expectancy under 10 years. A 10-year-old boy with 
infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy and severe neuromuscular scoliosis underwent 
posterior spinal fusion following halo traction. He was successfully extubated 
to bilevel positive airway pressure on postoperative day 3 and discharged home 
on postoperative day 11. Infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy presents several 
perioperative challenges including concerns for difficult intubation and 
respiratory dysfunction.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/pan.13081
PMID: 28177173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Liver Int. 2017 Jul;37(7):1056-1064. doi: 10.1111/liv.13382. Epub 2017 Mar
2.

Improving patient selection for selective internal radiation therapy of 
intra-hepatic cholangiocarcinoma: A meta-regression study.

Cucchetti A(1), Cappelli A(2), Mosconi C(2), Zhong JH(3), Cescon M(1), Pinna 
AD(1), Golfieri R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, Alma Mater Studiorum-University 
of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(2)Radiology Unit, Department of Digestive Disease and Internal Medicine, 
Sant'Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, Bologna, Italy.
(3)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, Affiliated Tumor Hospital of Guangxi 
Medical University, Nanning, China.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Selective internal radiation therapy (SIRT) is emerging as a 
potential therapy for unresectable intra-hepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA) able 
to prolong life-expectancy. Aim of this study was to collect available 
literature meta-analyse data and results and investigate sources of 
heterogeneity through a meta-regression approach before suggesting SIRT as a 
valuable option.
METHODS: A systematic review of studies published until 1 September 2016 in 
PubMed and Scopus databases was performed. Patient survival was the primary 
outcome measure. Meta-analysis was performed using a random-effects model. 
Meta-regression was applied to investigate relationships existing between 
clinical and tumour features and the primary outcome.
RESULTS: Nine observational studies were included in the analysis involving 224 
patients. The 1-, 2- and 3-year pooled survival estimates were 55.7%, 33.1% and 
20.2%. Clinical and tumour characteristics showed medium-to-considerable 
heterogeneity (I2 >50%). Meta-regression analysis showed that determinants of 
best survivals were the presence of mass-forming iCCA type (median 
survival=19.9 months vs 8.1 months for the infiltrative type; P=.002) that also 
accounted for most of the heterogeneity between included studies (residual I2 
=0); SIRT as first-line therapy (median survival=24 months vs 11.5 months for 
non-naïve patients; P=.048) and the adoption of concomitant chemotherapy (median 
survival 19.5 months vs 5.5 months in patients not receiving chemotherapy; 
P=.042).
CONCLUSIONS: There is considerable heterogeneity between studies highlighting 
that indications for SIRT are extremely varied. To ameliorate SIRT results naïve 
patients with mass-forming iCCA should be selected as the best candidates with 
the possibility of adding concomitant standard chemotherapy.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/liv.13382
PMID: 28177190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Tissue Eng Part A. 2017 Jul;23(13-14):609-621. doi:
10.1089/ten.TEA.2016.0405.  Epub 2017 Mar 10.

Magnesium Presence Prevents Removal of Antigenic Nuclear-Associated Proteins 
from Bovine Pericardium for Heart Valve Engineering.

Dalgliesh AJ(1)(2), Liu ZZ(1), Griffiths LG(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Veterinary Medicine, Medicine and Epidemiology, University of 
California , Davis, Davis, California.
(2)2 Department of Cardiovascular Diseases, Mayo Clinic , Rochester, Minnesota.

Current heart valve prostheses are associated with significant complications, 
including aggressive immune response, limited valve life expectancy, and 
inability to grow in juvenile patients. Animal derived "tissue" valves undergo 
glutaraldehyde fixation to mask tissue antigenicity; however, chronic 
immunological responses and associated calcification still commonly occur. A 
heart valve formed from an unfixed bovine pericardium (BP) extracellular matrix 
(ECM) scaffold, in which antigenic burden has been eliminated or significantly 
reduced, has potential to overcome deficiencies of current bioprostheses. 
Decellularization and antigen removal methods frequently use sequential 
solutions extrapolated from analytical chemistry approaches to promote 
solubility and removal of tissue components from resultant ECM scaffolds. 
However, the extent to which such prefractionation strategies may inhibit 
removal of antigenic tissue components has not been explored. We hypothesize 
that presence of magnesium in prefractionation steps causes DNA precipitation 
and reduces removal of nuclear-associated antigenic proteins. Keeping all 
variables consistent bar the addition or absence of magnesium (2 mM magnesium 
chloride hexahydrate), residual BP ECM scaffold antigenicity and removed 
antigenicity were assessed, along with residual and removed DNA content, ECM 
morphology, scaffold composition, and recellularization potential. Furthermore, 
we used proteomic methods to determine the mechanism by which magnesium presence 
or absence affects scaffold residual antigenicity. This study demonstrates that 
absence of magnesium from antigen removal solutions enhances solubility and 
subsequent removal of antigenic nuclear-associated proteins from BP. We 
therefore conclude that the primary mechanism of action for magnesium removal 
during antigen removal processes is avoidance of DNA precipitation, facilitating 
solubilization and removal of nuclear-associated antigenic proteins. Future 
studies are necessary to further facilitate solubility and removal of 
nuclear-associated antigenic proteins from xenogeneic ECM scaffolds, in addition 
to an in vivo assessing of the material.

DOI: 10.1089/ten.TEA.2016.0405
PMCID: PMC5549833
PMID: 28178887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No competing financial interests exist.


880. Anticancer Res. 2017 Feb;37(2):825-830. doi: 10.21873/anticanres.11384.

Mono- and Bi-weekly Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy for the Treatment of 
Epithelial Skin Cancer in Very Elderly Patients.

Valeriani M(1), Nicosia L(2), Agolli L(1), Reverberi C(1), Galvagno E(1), DE 
Sanctis V(1), Minniti G(1), Carlesimo M(3), Osti MF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Sant' Andrea Hospital, Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Sant' Andrea Hospital, Rome, Italy 
lucanicosia.rg@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Sant' Andrea Hospital, Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND/AIM: Epithelial skin cancer frequently occurs in the elderly 
population, sometimes in an advanced stage, when intensive treatments are 
needed. Radiotherapy can achieve high response rates. We evaluated efficacy and 
tolerability of hypofractionated radiotherapy in a population of very elderly 
patients with locally advanced epithelial skin cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Two different hypofractionated schedules were administered 
(21 patients): 6 Gy in 10 bi-weekly fractions (13 lesions) and 5 Gy in 12 
bi-weekly fractions (13 lesions). Median age at treatment was 88 years, life 
expectancy was ≤5 years in 90.5%.
RESULTS: The overall response rate was 96.1%, with 92.4% complete responses. All 
patients experienced an improvement of their symptoms and a reduction of pain 
and medication. The median overall survival time was 28 months (95% confidence 
interval=4.7-51.2 months). At the time of analysis, 52.3% of patients had died.
CONCLUSION: Hypofractionated radiotherapy is an effective option of treatment, 
with low toxicity and optimal results, and can also be safely administered to 
these frail patients.

Copyright© 2017, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. 
Delinasios), All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21873/anticanres.11384
PMID: 28179337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. BMJ Open. 2017 Feb 7;7(2):e013489. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-013489.

Cause of death and potentially avoidable deaths in Australian adults with 
intellectual disability using retrospective linked data.

Trollor J(1), Srasuebkul P(1), Xu H(1), Howlett S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Disability Neuropsychiatry, School of Psychiatry, 
UNSW Australia, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate mortality and its causes in adults over the age of 
20 years with intellectual disability (ID).
DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Retrospective population-based standardised 
mortality of the ID and Comparison cohorts. The ID cohort comprised 42 204 
individuals who registered for disability services with ID as a primary or 
secondary diagnosis from 2005 to 2011 in New South Wales (NSW). The Comparison 
cohort was obtained from published deaths in NSW from the Australian Bureau of 
Statistics (ABS) from 2005 to 2011.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: We measured and compared Age Standardised Mortality Rate 
(ASMR), Comparative Mortality Figure (CMF), years of productive life lost (YPLL) 
and proportion of deaths with potentially avoidable causes in an ID cohort with 
an NSW general population cohort.
RESULTS: There were 19 362 adults in the ID cohort which experienced 732 (4%) 
deaths at a median age of 54 years. Age Standardised Mortality Rates increased 
with age for both cohorts. Overall comparative mortality figure was 1.3, but was 
substantially higher for the 20-44 (4.0) and 45-64 (2.3) age groups. YPLL was 
137/1000 people in the ID cohort and 49 in the comparison cohort. Cause of death 
in ID cohort was dominated by respiratory, circulatory, neoplasm and nervous 
system. After recoding deaths previously attributed to the aetiology of the 
disability, 38% of deaths in the ID cohort and 17% in the comparison cohort were 
potentially avoidable.
CONCLUSIONS: Adults with ID experience premature mortality and 
over-representation of potentially avoidable deaths. A national system of 
reporting of deaths in adults with ID is required. Inclusion in health policy 
and services development and in health promotion programmes is urgently required 
to address premature deaths and health inequalities for adults with ID.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-013489
PMCID: PMC5306525
PMID: 28179413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


882. Eur Respir J. 2017 Feb 8;49(2):1601128. doi: 10.1183/13993003.01128-2016.
Print  2017 Feb.

Management of continuous positive airway pressure treatment compliance using 
telemonitoring in obstructive sleep apnoea.

Turino C(1)(2), de Batlle J(1)(2), Woehrle H(3)(4), Mayoral A(5), 
Castro-Grattoni AL(1), Gómez S(1), Dalmases M(1), Sánchez-de-la-Torre M(6)(7), 
Barbé F(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Group of Translational Research in Respiratory Medicine, Hospital 
Universitari Arnau de Vilanova and Santa Maria, IRBLleida, Lleida, Spain.
(2)These authors are joint first authors and contributed equally to this work.
(3)Sleep and Ventilation Centre Blaubeuren, Respiratory Centre Ulm, Ulm, 
Germany.
(4)ResMed Science Centre, ResMed Germany, Martinsried, Germany.
(5)Oxigensalud, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Group of Translational Research in Respiratory Medicine, Hospital 
Universitari Arnau de Vilanova and Santa Maria, IRBLleida, Lleida, Spain 
sanchezdelatorre@gmail.com.
(7)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Respiratorias 
(CIBERES), Madrid, Spain.

Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is an effective treatment for 
obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA), but treatment compliance is often 
unsatisfactory. This study investigated the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of 
telemonitoring for improving CPAP compliance.100 newly diagnosed OSA patients 
requiring CPAP (apnoea-hypopnoea index >15 events·h-1) were randomised to 
standard management or a telemonitoring programme that collected daily 
information about compliance, air leaks and residual respiratory events, and 
initiated patient contact to resolve issues. Clinical/anthropometric variables, 
daytime sleepiness and quality of life were recorded at baseline and after 
3 months. Patient satisfaction, additional visits/calls, side-effects and total 
costs were assessed.There were no significant differences between the standard 
and telemedicine groups in terms of CPAP compliance (4.9±2.2 versus 
5.1±2.1 h·night-1), symptoms, clinical variables, quality of life and unwanted 
effects. Telemedicine was less expensive than standard management (EUR123.65 
versus EUR170.97; p=0.022) and was cost-effective (incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio EUR17 358.65 per quality-adjusted life-year gained). 
Overall patient satisfaction was high, but significantly more patients rated 
satisfaction as high/very high in the standard management versus telemedicine 
group (96% versus 74%; p=0.034).Telemonitoring did not improve CPAP treatment 
compliance and was associated with lower patient satisfaction. However, it was 
more cost-effective than traditional follow-up.

Copyright ©ERS 2017.

DOI: 10.1183/13993003.01128-2016
PMID: 28179438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Orthopade. 2017 Apr;46(4):298-302. doi: 10.1007/s00132-017-3384-8.

[Epidemiology of Dupuytren's disease].

[Article in German]

Hahn P(1).

Author information:
(1)Handchirurgie, Vulpius Klinik, Vulpiusstr. 29, 74206, Bad Rappenau, 
Deutschland. peter.hahn@vulpiusklinik.de.

Dupuytren's disease is a chronic disease of the elderly. Assuming that life 
expectancy will increase considerably in the coming decades, Dupuytren's disease 
will gain more medical and socioeconomic relevance. In addition to well-known 
familial and genetic causes, other environmental factors (nicotine, diabetes, 
alcohol, trauma, work) are discussed. Knowledge of all factors and their 
influence on the onset and severity of the disease is important for diagnosis, 
therapy, and prevention of the disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00132-017-3384-8
PMID: 28180912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Age Ageing. 2017 Jan 20;46(1):71-77. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afw165.

Physical inactivity among older adults across Europe based on the SHARE 
database.

Gomes M(1), Figueiredo D(2)(3), Teixeira L(4)(5), Poveda V(4)(6), Paúl C(4)(5), 
Santos-Silva A(1), Costa E(1).

Author information:
(1)UCIBIO, REQUIMTE and Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Porto, Porto, 
Portugal.
(2)School of Health Sciences, University of Aveiro, Aveiro, Portugal.
(3)Center for Health Technology and Services Research (CINTESIS.UA), Aveiro, 
Portugal.
(4)Institute of Biomedical Sciences Abel Salazar, University of Porto, Porto, 
Portugal.
(5)Center for Health Technology and Services Research (CINTESIS), Porto, 
Portugal.
(6)University Peninsula of Santa Elena, La Libertad, Equador.

BACKGROUND: Regular physical activity is one of the key components of a healthy 
lifestyle. It is associated with better physical and cognitive functioning in 
later life and with increased life expectancy. The purpose of this study was to 
evaluate the prevalence of, and factors related to, physical inactivity among 
older adults across Europe.
METHODS: In this cross-sectional analysis, we used data from participants aged 
55 or older in Wave 4 of the Survey of Health, Ageing, and Retirement in Europe 
(SHARE) database, a multidisciplinary and cross-national panel database covering 
health, socioeconomic status, and social and family networks. Individuals 
included in this study were classified as physically active or physically 
inactive. Clinical, psychosocial and sociodemographic variables were evaluated 
for their association with physical inactivity.
RESULTS: From the total of 58,489 individuals in SHARE, we selected 19,298 
people age 55 or older (mean age 67.8 ± 8.9 years; 11,430 (59.2%) female). The 
overall prevalence of inactivity among individuals age 55 or older in the 16 
included countries was 12.5%. The prevalence of physical inactivity varied 
between countries, ranging from 4.9% (Sweden) to 29% (Portugal). Increasing age, 
depression, physical limitations, poor sense of meaning in life, social support 
and memory loss were significant variables associated with physical inactivity.
CONCLUSIONS: Physical inactivity can be explained by physical, cognitive and 
psychological conditions. Interventions aimed at promoting physical activity 
among older people are needed to address this diversity of factors.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Geriatrics Society. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afw165
PMCID: PMC6402309
PMID: 28181637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Age Ageing. 2017 Jan 15;46(1):147-151. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afw174.

Drug prescribing during the last year of life in very old people with diabetes.

Hamada S(1), Gulliford MC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Care and Public Health Sciences, King's College London, 
London, UK.
(2)National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Biomedical Research Centre at 
Guy's and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate primary care drug utilisation during the last year of 
life, focusing on antidiabetic and cardiovascular drugs, in patients of advanced 
age with diabetes.
DESIGN: Population-based cohort study.
SETTING: Primary care database in the UK.
SUBJECTS: Patients with type 2 diabetes who died at over 80 years of age between 
2011 and 13.
METHODS: Main outcome measures included proportions of patients prescribed 
different classes of drugs, comparing the first (Q1) and the fourth quarters 
(Q4) of the last year of life.
RESULTS: The study included 5,324 patients, with the median age 86 years and 50% 
female. Three-fourths of the patients received five or more drugs, and the total 
number of drugs prescribed was almost stable at 6.2 ± 3.1 (mean ± SD) during the 
last year of life. Substantial proportions of patients were treated with 
antidiabetic drugs (78%), antihypertensive drugs (76%), statins (62%) and 
low-dose aspirin (46%) in Q1. Prescribing of these drugs slightly decreased by 
3–8% in Q4. There were increases in prescribing of anti-infectives (35% in Q1 to 
50% in Q4), drugs for nervous system (63% to 73%), drugs for respiratory system 
(24% to 33%) and systemic hormonal drugs (22% to 27%).
CONCLUSION: Patients of advanced age with type 2 diabetes were often treated 
with antidiabetic and cardiovascular drugs even when approaching death. More 
research is needed to generate evidence to guide optimal drug utilisation for 
older people with a limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afw174
PMCID: PMC5388282
PMID: 28181655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Age Ageing. 2017 Jan 19;46(1):159-160. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afw237.

Should life-expectancy affect decisions over arthroplasty for hip fracture?

Johansen A(1), Mahoney H(1).

Author information:
(1)Trauma Unit, University Hospital of Wales, Cardiff, UK.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afw237
PMID: 28181658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. East Mediterr Health J. 2017 Feb 1;22(12):880-886. doi:
10.26719/2016.22.12.880.

Distribution of ophthalmologists and optometrists in Islamic Republic of Iran 
and their associated factors.

Mohammadi SF(1), Lashay MR(2), Ashrafi E(3), Haghdoust AA(4), Alinia C(3), 
Lashay AR(2), Asadi-Lari M(5), Mohammadi SM(6), Hatef E(7).

Author information:
(1)Eye Research Center, Farabi Eye Hospital, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran; Chams Research Chair in Public 
Health Ophthalmology, Farabi Eye Hospital, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran.
(2)Eye Research Center, Farabi Eye Hospital, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran.
(3)Eye Research Center, Farabi Eye Hospital, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran; Center for Non-Communicable Diseases 
Control, Ministry of Health and Medical Education, Tehran, Islamic Republic of 
Iran.
(4)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Kerman University of 
Medical Sciences, Kerman, Islamic Republic of Iran.
(5)Department of Epidemiologyand Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Iran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran.
(6)Eye Research Center, Farabi Eye Hospital, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran; Department of Management Sciences 
and Health Economics, School of Public Health, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran.
(7)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, United States of America.

We aimed to determine the distribution of ophthalmic care providers and its 
correlation with health and socioeconomic status and health system indicators. 
Data were gathered from the Iran Medical Council and the Iranian Societies of 
Ophthalmology and Optometry. Concurrent indicators were collected from the 
Statistical Center of Iran and national studies. A population-adjusted number of 
combined ophthalmologists and optometrists was used as the main dependent 
variable. Optometrist/ophthalmologist ratio was 0.9. We had 1 ophthalmologist 
and 1 optometrist for every 40 000 and 45 000 individuals, respectively. We 
observed a direct correlation between the number of ophthalmologists, 
optometrists and life expectancy at the provincial level. Gross provincial 
income and expenditure and provincial literacy were correlated as well. 
Provincial unemployment had a negative correlation. Provincial hospital 
statistics and population density were also significantly correlated. The 
Islamic Republic of Iran has met the World Health Organization's desired per 
capita number of ophthalmologists and optometrists, but there is wide variation 
in their density.

Publisher: توزع أطباء العيون وأخصائي البصريات في جمهورية إيران الإسلامية 
والعوامل المرتبطة بذلك. سيد فرزاد محمدي، محمد رضا لاشيى، الهام أشرفي، عي أكر حق 
دوست، سروس عي نيا، عي رضا لاشيى، محسن أسدي لاري، سيد مهرداد محمدي، الهام هاتف. 
لقد هدفنا إلى تحديد توزع مقدمي الرعاية للعيون وعلاقة ذلك بالحالة الصحية والوضع 
الاجتماعي-الاقتصادي وبمؤشرات النظام الصحي. ولقد جُعت البيانات من المجلس الطبي 
الإيراني والجمعيات الإيرانية لطب العيون وتصحيح البر. وجُعت مؤشرات متزامنة من 
مركز الإحصاء الإيراني ومن دراسات وطنية. واستُخدم عدد أطباء العيون وأخصائيي 
البصريات معاً - المصحَّح وفقاً لعدد السكان - عى أنه المتغر التابع الرئيي. كانت 
نسبة أخصائيي البصريات/أطباء العيون 0.9. وكان لدينا طبيب عيون واحد وأخصائي بصريات 
واحد لكل 40000 و 45000 فرداً، عى التوالي. ولاحظنا وجود علاقة مباشرة بن عدد أطباء 
العيون وأخصائيي البصريات ومتوسط العمر المتوقع عى مستوى المحافظات. كا كانت هناك 
علاقة بن إجمالي الدخل والإنفاق في المحافظات وبن محو الأمية فيها. وكانت هناك 
علاقة سلبية مع معدل البطالة في المحافظات. كا كان هناك ارتباط ملحوظ بن إحصاءات 
المستشفيات والكثافة السكانية في المحافظات. لقد لبَّت جمهورية إيران الإسامية نصيب 
الفرد الذي ترغب به منظمة الصحة العالمية من عدد أطباء العيون وأخصائيي البصريات، 
ولكن هناك تباين واسع في كثافتهم.

Publisher: Distribution des ophtalmologues et des optométristes en République 
islamique d’Iran et facteurs associés. Nous avons cherché à déterminer la 
distribution des dispensateurs de soins ophtalmologiques et sa corrélation avec 
la situation sanitaire et socio-économique ainsi qu’avec les indicateurs des 
systèmes de santé. Des données ont été rassemblées par le Conseil médical 
iranien et les Sociétés d’Ophtalmologie et d’Optométrie iraniennes. Des 
indicateurs concurrents ont été collectés auprès du Centre statistique d’Iran et 
à partir d’études nationales. Un nombre d’ophtalmologues et d’optométristes 
ajusté en fonction de la population a été utilisé comme principale variable 
dépendante. Le ratio optométriste/ophtalmologue était de 0,9. Il y avait un 
ophtalmologue et un optométriste pour 40 000 et 45 000 individus respectivement. 
Nous avons observé une corrélation directe entre le nombre d’ophtalmologues, 
d’optométristes et l’espérance de vie à l’échelle des provinces. Le revenu et 
les dépenses bruts en province ainsi que l’alphabétisation à ce niveau étaient 
également liés. Le chômage à l’échelle des provinces avait une corrélation 
négative. Les statistiques des hôpitaux de province et la densité de la 
population entretenaient une corrélation significative. La République islamique 
d’Iran a atteint le nombre d’ophtalmologues et d’optométristes par habitant fixé 
par l’Organisation mondiale de la Santé, mais il existe une importante 
variabilité dans leur densité.

DOI: 10.26719/2016.22.12.880
PMID: 28181663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Res Aging. 2017 Jan;39(1):135-165. doi: 10.1177/0164027516656140.

The Distributional Impact of Social Security Policy Options.

Couch KA(1), Reznik GL(2), Tamborini CR(2), Iams HM(3).

Author information:
(1)1 University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT, USA.
(2)2 Office of Retirement Policy, Social Security Administration, Washington, 
DC, USA.
(3)3 Office of Research, Evaluation, and Statistics, Social Security 
Administration, Washington, DC, USA.

Using microsimulation, we estimate the effects of three policy proposals that 
would alter Social Security's eligibility rules or benefit structure to reflect 
changes in women's labor force activity, marital patterns, and differential 
mortality among the aged. First, we estimate a set of options related to the 
duration of marriage required to receive divorced spouse and survivor benefits. 
Second, we estimate the effects of an earnings sharing proposal with survivor 
benefits, in which benefits are based entirely on earned benefits with spouses 
sharing their earnings during years of marriage. Third, we estimate the effects 
of adjusting benefits to reflect the increasing differential life expectancy by 
lifetime earnings. The results advance our understanding of the distributional 
effects of these alternative policy options on projected benefits and retirement 
income, including poverty and supplemental poverty status, of divorced and 
widowed women aged 60 or older in 2030.

DOI: 10.1177/0164027516656140
PMID: 28181868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2017;160:D1084.

[Discontinuation of potentially inappropriate medications at the end of life: 
perspectives from patients, their relatives, and physicians].

[Article in Dutch]

Geijteman EC(1), Tempelman MM, Dees MK, Huisman BA, Perez RS, van Zuylen L, van 
der Heide A.

Author information:
(1)*Dit artikel werd eerder in afgeslankte vorm gepubliceerd in Journal of the 
American Geriatrics Society (2016;64:2602-4) met als titel 'Understanding the 
continuation of potentially inappropriate medications at the end of life: 
perspectives from individuals and their relatives and physicians'. Afgedrukt met 
toestemming.

OBJECTIVE: To obtain insight into the perspectives of patients, relatives and 
physicians towards potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) at the end of 
life.
DESIGN: Qualitative interview study.
METHOD: An analysis of in-depth interviews with 17 patients who were diagnosed 
as having a life expectancy of less than three months, 12 patient relatives, and 
20 medical specialists and 12 general practitioners who cared for them. For 
analysis we applied the constant comparative method, which forms part of the 
grounded theory approach.
RESULTS: Patients and their relatives are prepared to discontinue PIMs. Still, 
