symptoms. The physical and psychosocial burden of illness in patients with NPD B 
is substantial. Common symptoms include shortness of breath, joint or limb pain, 
abdominal pain, bleeding and bruising. The disease often leads to chronic 
fatigue, limited physical or social activity and difficulties in performing 
daily activities or work. Many patients die before or in early adulthood, often 
from pneumonia/respiratory failure or liver failure. Available treatments are 
limited to symptom management and supportive care. An enzyme replacement therapy 
currently in clinical development is expected to be the first treatment 
addressing the underlying pathology of the disease. Early diagnosis and 
appropriate management are essential for reducing the risk of complications. 
While knowledge about ASMD is evolving, more evidence about ASMD and the natural 
history across the disease spectrum is needed, to improve disease recognition, 
timely diagnosis and appropriate disease management.

DOI: 10.1186/s13023-017-0572-x
PMCID: PMC5322625
PMID: 28228103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Psychol Med. 2017 Jul;47(10):1825-1835. doi: 10.1017/S0033291717000289. Epub
 2017 Feb 23.

Cost-effectiveness of computerized cognitive-behavioural therapy for the 
treatment of depression in primary care: findings from the Randomised Evaluation 
of the Effectiveness and Acceptability of Computerised Therapy (REEACT) trial.

Duarte A(1), Walker S(1), Littlewood E(2), Brabyn S(2), Hewitt C(2), Gilbody 
S(2), Palmer S(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York,Heslington,York YO10 5DD,UK.
(2)Department of Health Sciences,University of York,Heslington,York YO10 5DD,UK.

BACKGROUND: Computerized cognitive-behavioural therapy (cCBT) forms a core 
component of stepped psychological care for depression. Existing evidence for 
cCBT has been informed by developer-led trials. This is the first study based on 
a large independent pragmatic trial to assess the cost-effectiveness of cCBT as 
an adjunct to usual general practitioner (GP) care compared with usual GP care 
alone and to establish the differential cost-effectiveness of a free-to-use cCBT 
programme (MoodGYM) in comparison with a commercial programme (Beating the 
Blues) in primary care.
METHOD: Costs were estimated from a healthcare perspective and outcomes measured 
using quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) over 2 years. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness of each cCBT programme was compared with usual GP care. 
Uncertainty was estimated using probabilistic sensitivity analysis and scenario 
analyses were performed to assess the robustness of results.
RESULTS: Neither cCBT programme was found to be cost-effective compared with 
usual GP care alone. At a £20 000 per QALY threshold, usual GP care alone had 
the highest probability of being cost-effective (0.55) followed by MoodGYM 
(0.42) and Beating the Blues (0.04). Usual GP care alone was also the 
cost-effective intervention in the majority of scenario analyses. However, the 
magnitude of the differences in costs and QALYs between all groups appeared 
minor (and non-significant).
CONCLUSIONS: Technically supported cCBT programmes do not appear any more 
cost-effective than usual GP care alone. No cost-effective advantage of the 
commercially developed cCBT programme was evident compared with the free-to-use 
cCBT programme. Current UK practice recommendations for cCBT may need to be 
reconsidered in the light of the results.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291717000289
PMID: 28228182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. SAGE Open Med. 2017 Jan 31;5:2050312117690404. doi:
10.1177/2050312117690404.  eCollection 2017.

Assessment of the expectancy, seriousness and severity of adverse drug reactions 
reported for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease therapy.

Petrova G(1), Stoimenova A(2), Dimitrova M(1), Kamusheva M(1), Petrova D(3), 
Georgiev O(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Organization and Economy of Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Medical University of Sofia, Sofia, Bulgaria.
(2)Department of Organization and Economy of Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Medical University of Sofia, Sofia, Bulgaria; Bulgarian Drug Agency, Sofia, 
Bulgaria.
(3)Department of Propaedeutic Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Medical University 
of Sofia, Sofia, Bulgaria.

INTRODUCTION: Adverse drug reactions can cause increased morbidity and 
mortality, and therefore information needs to be studied systematically. Little 
is known about the adverse drug reactions for chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease therapy. The goal of this study is to assess the expectedness, 
seriousness and severity of adverse drug reactions during chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease therapy based on their reporting in the national 
pharmacovigilance system.
METHODS: This was a prospective, observational, 1-year, real-life study about 
the pharmacotherapy of a sample of 390 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
patients. Prescribed medicines were systematized and national pharmacovigilance 
databases were searched for reported adverse drug reactions. The expectedness 
was evaluated through the review of the summary of product characteristics, the 
seriousness was evaluated by the clinicians based on the life threatening nature 
of the adverse drug reactions, and the severity was evaluated through Hartwig's 
Severity Assessment Scale. Descriptive statistics of the reported adverse drug 
reactions was performed and the relative risk of developing an adverse drug 
reaction with all international non-proprietary names included in the analysis 
was calculated.
RESULTS: Results confirm that the chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is a 
disease with high appearance of adverse drug reactions, and causes many 
additional costs to the healthcare system. Unexpected and severe adverse drug 
reactions are frequent. A total of 4.8% of adverse drug reactions were evaluated 
as life threatening. Majority of adverse drug reactions are classified in Levels 
1 (32.6%), 2 (26.4%) and 3 (19%) according to Hartwig's Severity Assessment 
Scale. Approximately 22% of reported adverse drug reactions affect people's 
everyday life to a greater extent and require additional therapy which might 
further increase the risk. The relative risk of developing an adverse drug 
reaction was highest for novphyllin (relative risk = 0.65), followed by 
aclidinium bromide (relative risk = 0.09). Both indacaterol and salbutamol are 
with a relative risk of 0.07.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, the medicines for chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease cause many serious adverse drug reactions, most of them were unexpected, 
lacking in the short product characteristics. Appropriate reporting of adverse 
drug reactions is necessary to decrease the risk of patients and healthcare 
system.

DOI: 10.1177/2050312117690404
PMCID: PMC5308439
PMID: 28228952

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship and/or publication of this article.


995. Neurobiol Stress. 2016 Sep 23;6:104-112. doi: 10.1016/j.ynstr.2016.09.003. 
eCollection 2017 Feb.

Social stress models in rodents: Towards enhanced validity.

Koolhaas JM(1), de Boer SF(1), Buwalda B(1), Meerlo P(1).

Author information:
(1)Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences, Neurobiology, University 
Groningen, P.O.Box 11103, Groningen, The Netherlands.

Understanding the role of the social environment in the development of stress 
related diseases requires a more fundamental understanding of stress. Stress 
includes not only the stimulus and the response but also the individual 
appraisal of the situation. The social environment is not only essential for 
survival it is at the same time an important source of stressors. This review 
discusses the social stress concept, how it has been studied in rodents in the 
course of time and some more recent insights into the appraisal process. In 
addition to the factors controllability and predictability, outcome expectancy 
and feedback of the victim's own actions during the social stress are suggested 
to be important factors in the development of stress related disease. It is 
hypothesized that individual differences in the way in which these factors are 
used in the appraisal of everyday life situations may explain individual 
vulnerability.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ynstr.2016.09.003
PMCID: PMC5314414
PMID: 28229113


996. Environ Sci Process Impacts. 2017 Mar 22;19(3):449-464. doi:
10.1039/c6em00697c.

Eawag-Soil in enviPath: a new resource for exploring regulatory pesticide soil 
biodegradation pathways and half-life data.

Latino DA(1), Wicker J(2), Gütlein M(2), Schmid E(3), Kramer S(2), Fenner K(4).

Author information:
(1)Eawag, Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology, 8600 
Dübendorf, Switzerland. diogo.latino@eawag.ch.
(2)Institute of Computer Science, Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, 55128 
Mainz, Germany.
(3)Scientific IT Services, ETH Zürich, 8092 Zürich, Switzerland.
(4)Eawag, Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology, 8600 
Dübendorf, Switzerland. diogo.latino@eawag.ch and Department of Chemistry, 
University of Zürich, 8057 Zürich, Switzerland.

Developing models for the prediction of microbial biotransformation pathways and 
half-lives of trace organic contaminants in different environments requires as 
training data easily accessible and sufficiently large collections of respective 
biotransformation data that are annotated with metadata on study conditions. 
Here, we present the Eawag-Soil package, a public database that has been 
developed to contain all freely accessible regulatory data on pesticide 
degradation in laboratory soil simulation studies for pesticides registered in 
the EU (282 degradation pathways, 1535 reactions, 1619 compounds and 4716 
biotransformation half-life values with corresponding metadata on study 
conditions). We provide a thorough description of this novel data resource, and 
discuss important features of the pesticide soil degradation data that are 
relevant for model development. Most notably, the variability of half-life 
values for individual compounds is large and only about one order of magnitude 
lower than the entire range of median half-life values spanned by all compounds, 
demonstrating the need to consider study conditions in the development of more 
accurate models for biotransformation prediction. We further show how the data 
can be used to find missing rules relevant for predicting soil biotransformation 
pathways. From this analysis, eight examples of reaction types were presented 
that should trigger the formulation of new biotransformation rules, e.g., Ar-OH 
methylation, or the extension of existing rules, e.g., hydroxylation in 
aliphatic rings. The data were also used to exemplarily explore the dependence 
of half-lives of different amide pesticides on chemical class and experimental 
parameters. This analysis highlighted the value of considering initial 
transformation reactions for the development of meaningful 
quantitative-structure biotransformation relationships (QSBR), which is a novel 
opportunity offered by the simultaneous encoding of transformation reactions and 
corresponding half-lives in Eawag-Soil. Overall, Eawag-Soil provides an 
unprecedentedly rich collection of manually extracted and curated 
biotransformation data, which should be useful in a great variety of 
applications.

DOI: 10.1039/c6em00697c
PMID: 28229138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Epilepsia. 2017 Apr;58(4):558-564. doi: 10.1111/epi.13705. Epub 2017 Feb 23.

Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 2 study of ganaxolone as 
add-on therapy in adults with uncontrolled partial-onset seizures.

Sperling MR(1), Klein P(2), Tsai J(3).

Author information:
(1)Jefferson Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Thomas Jefferson University, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.
(2)Mid-Atlantic Epilepsy and Sleep Center, Bethesda, Maryland, U.S.A.
(3)Marinus Pharmaceuticals, Radnor, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of ganaxolone as adjunctive 
therapy in adults with uncontrolled partial-onset seizures despite taking up to 
three concomitant antiepileptic drugs (AEDs).
METHODS: Adults aged 18-69 years and refractory to conventional AEDs were 
enrolled in a multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. After an 
8-week baseline period, patients were randomized 2:1 to ganaxolone 1,500 mg/day 
or placebo for a 10-week treatment period (2-week forced titration and 8-week 
maintenance) followed by either tapering or entry into an open-label extension 
study. The primary endpoint was mean weekly seizure frequency. Secondary 
endpoints included the proportion of patients experiencing ≥50% reduction in 
seizure frequency (responder rate), percent change in mean weekly seizure 
frequency, seizure-free days, and quality of life. Safety and tolerability 
assessments included adverse events (AEs), treatment discontinuation, and 
clinical laboratory evaluations. Efficacy analyses were performed on the 
intent-to-treat population.
RESULTS: Of 147 randomized patients (98 ganaxolone, 49 placebo), 131 completed 
the study; 95% of participants titrated up to 1,500 mg/day and 78% maintained 
this dose. From baseline to endpoint, mean weekly seizure frequency decreased 
with ganaxolone (6.5-5.2) versus placebo (9.2-10.8), representing an 11.4% 
decrease versus placebo (p = 0.0489, analysis of covariance [ANCOVA]). Mean 
percent change from baseline was -17.6% with ganaxolone versus 2.0% with placebo 
(p = 0.0144, Kruskal-Wallis test). Responder rates were 24% with ganaxolone 
versus 15% with placebo (p = 0.19). Discontinuation due to adverse events was 
similar with ganaxolone (7.1%) and placebo (6.1%). Common adverse events were 
mild to moderate in severity and included dizziness (16.3% vs. 8.2%), fatigue 
(16.3% vs. 8.2%), and somnolence (13.3% vs. 2.0%).
SIGNIFICANCE: Ganaxolone 1,500 mg/day reduced partial-onset seizure frequency 
and was generally safe and well tolerated in this phase 2 study. These results 
support continued development of ganaxolone for adult patients with refractory 
partial-onset seizures.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2017 International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.13705
PMID: 28230252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Health Innovation and Value [Internet].

NICE Citizens Council.

London: National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE); 2009 May 30. 
Citizens Council Reports No. 12.
NICE Citizens Council Reports.

The Citizens Council provides NICE with a public perspective on overarching 
moral and ethical issues that NICE should take into account when producing 
guidance. Made up of members of the public, broadly representative of the adult 
UK population, the Council operates through a “citizens’ jury” style meeting, to 
explore and respond to a question set by NICE. At its May 2009 meeting, the 
Citizens Council was asked to provide insight into the public’s view of 
innovation, and to explore which features of innovation should be considered 
when assessing its value, specifically in the context of health care. The aim 
was to provide a report to be fed into a study on the value of innovation in 
health care being carried out on behalf of NICE by Sir Ian Kennedy. The Council 
was asked: “What makes innovation valuable to you?” From a list of features that 
might make a healthcare innovation valuable, each member was asked to choose the 
three they felt were most valuable. The features, with number of votes shown in 
brackets, were: It increases quality of life (26). Other innovations may be 
developed from it in the future (11). A large number of people will benefit from 
it (10). It saves your life (9). It increases life expectancy (9). It meets a 
previously unmet need (6). It prevents a condition (5). It cures a condition 
(5). There are few other treatment options (1). It reduces risk to the patient 
(0). It has a one-off cost rather than ongoing costs (0). We were also asked to 
tackle two other questions. First, if the innovation is more expensive than 
NICE’s current cost per QALY gained threshold and does not demonstrate benefits 
at the moment but could well do so in the future, what should NICE do? Fifteen 
of us (a majority of two) responded that we should say “no” for the present, and 
ask the developers to fund and carry out more research themselves. The remaining 
13 of our members also wanted us to say “no” for the present, but preferred that 
further research be co-funded for the developers on condition that the public 
would get a return proportionate to any investment. For a clearer insight into 
these conclusions we were asked more specifically who should bear the costs and 
risks of research and development. We had five choices: the developer; the NHS; 
the taxpayer; charities; joint sharing between taxpayer and developer. Seventeen 
of us felt that the developer of the technology should bear the full cost. The 
rest, 11 in total, opted for joint sharing between the taxpayer and the 
developer. We also offered NICE a raft of suggestions (listed in the body of the 
report) on how it might improve its communication with the public about 
innovation.

Copyright © 2009 National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, unless 
otherwise stated. All rights reserved.

PMID: 28230939


999. Rule of Rescue [Internet].

NICE Citizens Council.

London: National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE); 2006 Jan 28. 
Citizens Council Reports No. 6.
NICE Citizens Council Reports.

The Citizens Council provides NICE with a public perspective on overarching 
moral and ethical issues that NICE should take into account when producing 
guidance. Made up of members of the public, broadly representative of the adult 
UK population, the Council operates through a “citizens’ jury” style meeting, to 
explore and respond to a question set by NICE. At this three day meeting of the 
Council, members were asked to consider whether NICE and its advisory bodies 
should take account of the so-called “Rule of Rescue”. Specifically, the Council 
was asked: Is there a preference to save the life of people in imminent danger 
of dying instead of: 1. improving the life of other people whose lives are not 
in immediate danger? or 2. saving the lives of many people in the future through 
disease prevention programmes (such as treating high blood pressure or lowering 
blood cholesterol levels)? If the Council considers that NICE should ignore the 
Rule of Rescue – why? If the Council considers that the Rule of Rescue should be 
applied – when? And what limits are there? The Council felt that the term Rule 
of Rescue was open to different interpretations – ranging from immediate 
life-saving to improving the quality of life of the terminally ill - and was 
therefore unhelpful in answering NICE’s questions. We therefore replaced the 
term Rule of Rescue with ‘exceptional case’. When we were asked whether NICE 
should reject the Rule of Rescue a minority of us (6 out of 27) were opposed to 
any exceptional case treatment, arguing that the NHS does not have a duty to 
save life at any cost. It has a duty to groups as well as individuals. A 
majority (21 out of 27) said that it should not be rejected completely and it 
should be applied in certain exceptional cases. Recognising that the NHS does 
not have infinite resources, this majority group were able to specify when NICE 
should apply the Rule of Rescue and define what these limits should be. Factors 
NICE need to consider when developing their criteria for applying the Rule or 
Rescue: Is the intervention required to avoid immediate loss of life? Is there a 
good chance of an increased life expectancy? Will it result in a significant 
improvement in quality of life? Are the treatment’s side effects very severe and 
do they outweigh the good the treatment would do? What will be the consequences 
should the treatment not be received? What are the alternative treatments and 
how do they compare? Are future medical gains probable because of the research 
engendered by the treatment? Are the costs prohibitive to the NHS? To what 
extent does it increase the burden of costs on the NHS and society at large? To 
what extent is cost effectiveness demonstrable? Are there good grounds for 
believing it would set a precedent for other patient groups lobbying for less 
cost effective treatments? Will it avert danger to public health e.g. threat of 
an epidemic? Will people feel society’s worth is diminished if it appears to be 
acting inhumanely by ignoring the Rule of Rescue?

Copyright © 2006 National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, unless 
otherwise stated. All rights reserved.

PMID: 28230948


1000. Life Expectancy Calculators [Internet].

Rector T, Taylor B, Sultan S, Shaukat A, Adabag S, Nelson D, Capecchi T, 
MacDonald R, Greer N, Wilt T.

Washington (DC): Department of Veterans Affairs (US); 2016 Jun.
VA Evidence-based Synthesis Program Reports.

Estimation of life expectancy serves an important role in clinical decisions 
about screening for disease and treatment in primary care practices. 
Increasingly, clinical guidelines recommend a course of action in context of the 
patient's life expectancy. While many tools have been developed to estimate life 
expectancy or the likelihood of surviving for a period of time, there are no 
well-established decision support tools that are broadly applicable to primary 
care. For a life expectancy calculator to gain widespread use in primary care, 
it needs to have acceptable and validated predictive accuracy at 
decision-relevant times such as 6 months or 5 years, proven usefulness, and be 
readily available. In 2012, a systematic review by Yourman et al summarized 
existing life expectancy calculators that may be useful for older patients in 
primary care. However, none of the reviewed calculators met our criteria for 
widespread use. The purpose of this systematic review was to update the search 
on life expectancy calculators, with focus on calculators that may be valuable 
for use in the Veterans Health Administration population receiving primary care.

PMID: 28230961
1. Foods. 2016 Jun 28;5(3):48. doi: 10.3390/foods5030048.

Modified Atmosphere Systems and Shelf Life Extension of Fish and Fishery 
Products.

DeWitt CA(1), Oliveira AC(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)OSU Seafood Research & Education Center Experiment Station, Department of 
Food Science and Technology, Oregon State University, Astoria, OR 97103, USA. 
christina.dewitt@oregonstate.edu.
(2)BluWrap, 766 Harrison Street #102, San Francisco, CA 94107, USA. 
alex.oliveira@bluwrap.com.
(3)Kodiak Seafood and Marine Science Center, School of Fisheries and Ocean 
Sciences, University of Alaska Fairbanks, 118 Trident Way, Kodiak, AK 99615, 
USA. alex.oliveira@bluwrap.com.

This review aims at summarizing the findings of studies published over the past 
15 years on the application of modified atmosphere (MA) systems for shelf life 
extension of fish and fishery products. This review highlights the importance of 
CO₂ in the preservation of seafood products, and underscores the benefits of 
combining MA technology with product storage in the superchilled temperature 
range. It is generally accepted that MA technology cannot improve product 
quality and should not be utilized as a substitute for good sanitation and 
strict temperature control. Benefits derived from application of MA, however, 
can significantly impact preservation of product quality and it subsequent 
shelf-life. For this reason, this review is the first of its kind to propose 
detailed handling and quality guidelines for fresh fish to realize the maximum 
benefit of MA technology.

DOI: 10.3390/foods5030048
PMCID: PMC5302388
PMID: 28231143

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


2. Foods. 2016 Aug 29;5(3):57. doi: 10.3390/foods5030057.

Antimicrobial Active Packaging including Chitosan Films with Thymus vulgaris L. 
Essential Oil for Ready-to-Eat Meat.

Quesada J(1), Sendra E(2), Navarro C(3), Sayas-Barberá E(4).

Author information:
(1)IPOA Research Group, Agro-Food Technology Department, School of Engineering 
of Orihuela, Miguel Hernandez University, Ctra. De Beniel km 3.2. 03312 
Orihuela, Alicante, Spain. jesusquesadar@gmail.com.
(2)IPOA Research Group, Agro-Food Technology Department, School of Engineering 
of Orihuela, Miguel Hernandez University, Ctra. De Beniel km 3.2. 03312 
Orihuela, Alicante, Spain. esther.sendra@umh.es.
(3)IPOA Research Group, Agro-Food Technology Department, School of Engineering 
of Orihuela, Miguel Hernandez University, Ctra. De Beniel km 3.2. 03312 
Orihuela, Alicante, Spain. casilda.navarro@umh.es.
(4)IPOA Research Group, Agro-Food Technology Department, School of Engineering 
of Orihuela, Miguel Hernandez University, Ctra. De Beniel km 3.2. 03312 
Orihuela, Alicante, Spain. estrella.sayas@umh.es.

An active packaging system has been designed for the shelf life extension of 
ready to eat meat products. The package included an inner surface coated with a 
chitosan film with thyme essential oil (0%, 0.5%, 1%, and 2%) not in direct 
contact with the meat. Our aim was to reduce the impact of thyme essential oil 
(EO) on meat sensory properties by using a chemotype with low odor intensity. 
The pH, color parameters, microbial populations, and sensory properties were 
assessed during 4 weeks of refrigerated storage. The presence of EO films 
reduced yeast populations, whereas aerobic mesophilic bacteria, lactic acid 
bacteria, and enterobacteria were not affected by the presence of the EO in the 
films. Meat color preservation (a *) was enhanced in the presence of EO, giving 
a better appearance to the packaged meat. The presence of the chitosan-EO layer 
reduced water condensation inside the package, whereas packages containing only 
chitosan had evident water droplets. Thyme odor was perceived as desirable in 
cooked meat, and the typical product odor intensity decreased by increasing the 
EO concentration. Further studies should point towards developing oil blends or 
combinations with natural antimicrobial agents to be incorporated into the film 
to improve its antimicrobial properties.

DOI: 10.3390/foods5030057
PMCID: PMC5302392
PMID: 28231152

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


3. Meat Sci. 2017 Jul;129:9-19. doi: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2017.02.010. Epub 2017 Feb
 16.

Lipid and protein antioxidant capacity of dried Agaricus bisporus in salted 
cooked ground beef.

Alnoumani H(1), Ataman ZA(2), Were L(3).

Author information:
(1)Food Science Program, Schmid College of Science and Technology, Chapman 
University, 1 University Drive, Orange, CA 92866, USA.
(2)Chapman University, 1 University Drive, Orange, CA 92866, USA.
(3)Food Science Program, Schmid College of Science and Technology, Chapman 
University, 1 University Drive, Orange, CA 92866, USA. Electronic address: 
were@chapman.edu.

Dried Agaricus bisporus powder (DAB)'s antioxidant capacity was tested in 
refrigerated cooked ground beef (CGB) containing 0, 1 or 1.5% NaCl. Lipid and 
protein oxidation products were monitored over time and correlated with changes 
in phenolic content. On day 16, 88-94% lower malondialdehyde (MDA) was found in 
CGB with DAB compared to control (1.15mg MDA/kg samples). Volatile aldehydes 
were up to 99% lower on day 16 in CGB with DAB than controls. In unsalted CGB, 
thiols dropped by 82% in control compared to <60% in CGB with DAB. On day 16, 
tryptophan fluorescence decline in unsalted control was higher (28%) than that 
in CGB with rosemary or DAB (2.4-5.5%) while Schiff bases declined in control 
and CGB+1% DAB, but increased in CGB+2% and 4% DAB. DAB's extension of shelf 
life was concentration dependent. Phenolic compounds had moderate to strong 
negative correlations with MDA up to day 10 indicating a possible role of DAB 
phenolics in preventing malondialdehyde production.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2017.02.010
PMID: 28231438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2017 Feb 10;38(2):231-234. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2017.02.019.

[Analysis on cancer deaths and cause-eliminated-life-expectancy among residents 
of Tianjin, 2015].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Xu ZL(1), Zhang H, Wang DZ, Song GD, Shen CF, Zhang S, Zhang Y, Jiang GH.

Author information:
(1)Tianjin Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Tianjin 300011, China.

Objective: To explore the causes of cancer deaths and 
cause-eliminated-life-expectancy among residents of Tianjin. Methods: Data from 
the death registry system of Tianjin residents in 2015 were collected and 
cancers were grouped according to the classification of Global Burden of 
Disease. Specific cancer crude death rate and cause eliminated life expectancy 
(CELE) were calculated. Results: In 2015, 17 641 Tianjin residents died of 
cancer, with the crude death rate as 171.79 per 100 thousand and the 
standardized rate according to the Chinese population in 2000 as 86.32 per 100 
thousand. The cancer deaths among men was 10 165, with crude death rate of 
197.39 per 100 thousand and standardized rate was 95.41 per 100 thousand. While 
among females the cancer deaths was 7 476, with crude death rate as 146.04 per 
100 thousand and standardized rate as 76.65 per 100 thousand. The top five 
leading deaths on cancers among men were lung, liver, stomach, "colon, rectum 
and anal" , pancreas, while lung, breast, liver, "colon, rectum and anal" , 
stomach were in women. The life expectancy increased 3.53 and 2.88 years among 
men and women respectively after the exclusion of cancer deaths. When lung 
cancer death was excluded, the life expectancy increased 1.25 and 0.97 years 
respectively among men and women. Lung cancer was the main reason of life 
expectancy lost than cancer of other locations. Conclusion: Cancers, with lung 
cancer in particular, were the major diseases causing death and life expectancy 
lost in the Tianjin residents which called for urgent effective intervention 
programs to develop.

Publisher: 目的：探讨天津市户籍居民恶性肿瘤死亡及去死因期望寿命情况。 
方法：收集2015年天津市户籍居民全死因登记资料，按照全球疾病负担中恶性肿瘤分类标准进行分类，计算各类恶性肿瘤死亡率及去除之后对期望寿命的影响。 结果： 
2015年天津市户籍居民因恶性肿瘤死亡17 641例，粗死亡率为171.79/10万，标化率为86.32/10万。其中男性死亡10 
165例，粗死亡率为197.39/10万，标化率为95.41/10万，女性死亡7 
476例，粗死亡率为146.04/10万，标化率为76.65/10万。男性恶性肿瘤死亡排前5位的是肺癌、肝癌、胃癌、结直肠肛门癌和胰腺癌；女性恶性肿瘤死亡排前5位的是肺癌、乳腺癌、肝癌、结直肠肛门癌和胃癌。去除恶性肿瘤后男性和女性期望寿命分别增长3.53岁和2.88岁，其中去除肺癌之后分别增长1.25岁和0.97岁，远超过其他恶性肿瘤。 
结论：肺癌是造成天津市户籍居民死亡及期望寿命减少的主要疾病，亟需采取有效的预防措施加以遏制。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2017.02.019
PMID: 28231672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2017 Feb 10;38(2):267-271. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2017.02.026.

[Use the Markov-decision tree model to optimize vaccination strategies of 
hepatitis E among women aged 15 to 49].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Chen ZM(1), Ji SB(1), Shi XL(1), Zhao YY(1), Zhang XF(2), Jin H(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Southeast University, Nanjing 210009, China.
(2)Jiangsu Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Nanjing 210009, 
China.

Objective: To evaluate the cost-utility of different hepatitis E vaccination 
strategies in women aged 15 to 49. Methods: The Markov-decision tree model was 
constructed to evaluate the cost-utility of three hepatitis E virus vaccination 
strategies. Parameters of the models were estimated on the basis of published 
studies and experience of experts. Both methods on sensitivity and threshold 
analysis were used to evaluate the uncertainties of the model. Results: Compared 
with non-vaccination group, strategy on post-screening vaccination with rate as 
100%, could save 0.10 quality-adjusted life years per capital in the women from 
the societal perspectives. After implementation of screening program and with 
the vaccination rate reaching 100%, the incremental cost utility ratio (ICUR) of 
vaccination appeared as 5 651.89 and 6 385.33 Yuan/QALY, respectively. 
Vaccination post to the implementation of a screening program, the result showed 
better benefit than the vaccination rate of 100%. Results from the sensitivity 
analysis showed that both the cost of hepatitis E vaccine and the inoculation 
compliance rate presented significant effects. If the cost were lower than 
191.56 Yuan (RMB) or the inoculation compliance rate lower than 0.23, the 
vaccination rate of 100% strategy was better than the post-screening vaccination 
strategy, otherwise the post-screening vaccination strategy appeared the optimal 
strategy. Conclusion: Post-screening vaccination for women aged 15 to 49 from 
social perspectives seemed the optimal one but it had to depend on the change of 
vaccine cost and the rate of inoculation compliance.

Publisher: 目的：比较15~ 49岁女性人群戊型肝炎（戊肝）疫苗不同免疫接种策略的成本和效用，从而为戊肝免疫接种策略的制定和优化提供科学依据。 
方法：应用Markov决策树模型，评价15～49岁女性人群戊肝疫苗接种策略：100%接种策略、筛查后易感人群接种策略和不接种策略，评价指标为增量成本效用比，并进行敏感性和阈值分析。 
结果：从社会角度看，同不接种策略相比，筛查后接种策略和100%接种策略，人均分别增加0.10个健康生命年，增量成本效用比为5 651.89元/质量调整生命年和6 
385.33元/质量调整生命年。敏感性分析和阈值分析显示，当疫苗价格均<191.56元时，100%接种策略优于筛查后接种策略；当疫苗价格均>191.56元时，筛查后接种策略优于100%接种策略。接种依从率均<23%时，100%接种策略优于筛查后接种策略；依从率均>23%时，筛查后接种策略优于100%接种策略。随着易感者年感染率的增加，筛查后接种策略和100%接种策略的增量成本效用比下降，但是筛查后接种策略依然优于100%接种策略。 
结论： 15~ 49岁女性人群筛查后接种戊肝疫苗是最优免疫策略，但会受到价格和接种依从性的影响。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2017.02.026
PMID: 28231679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Arch Pediatr. 2016 Dec;23(12S):12S21-12S32. doi:
10.1016/S0929-693X(17)30059-3.

[Pancreatic infringement exocrine and endocrine in cystic fibrosis].

[Article in French]

Kessler L(1), Abély M(2).

Author information:
(1)Service d'endocrinologie-diabète-nutrition, Hôpital Civil, Hôpitaux 
Universitaires de Strasbourg; Centre de ressources et de compétences de la 
mucoviscidose d'Alsace; Équipe d'accueil 7293 Stress vasculaire et tissulaire en 
transplantation; Université de Strasbourg, France. Electronic address: 
laurence.kessler@chru-strasbourg.fr.
(2)Centre de ressources et de compétences de la mucoviscidose Reims, American 
Memorial Hospital CHU Reims; INSERM UMRS 903 Reims, France.

The exocrine pancreatic insufficiency affects more than 80% of cystic fibrosis 
(CF) infants. Pancreatic insufficiency is diagnosed by low levels of fecal 
elastase. An optimal caloric intake, a pancreatic enzyme treatment are the keys 
to maintain a good nutritional status. The fat soluble vitamins supplementation 
will be associated with pancreatic enzymes treatment and will be adapted to 
plasma levels. Iron and oligo-element deficiency such as zinc is common. The 
pancreatic enzymes function is not optimal in the proximal bowel: the 
intraluminal intestinal pH is low because of the absence of bicarbonate release 
by the pancreas. The use of proton pump inhibitors may improve the functionality 
of pancreatic enzymes treatment. New therapies such as ivacaftor in patients 
with a G551D mutation allows a weight gain in particular by restoring intestinal 
pH similar to controls. Lengthening of the life expectancy of patients with CF 
is accompanied by the emergence new aspects of the disease, especially diabetes, 
favored by pancreatic cystic fibrosis resulting in an anatomical destruction of 
pancreatic islets. Currently, diabetes affects a third of the patients after 20 
years, and half after 30 years. Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes is a major 
factor of morbidity-mortality in all stages of the disease and is characterized 
by a preclinical phase of glucose intolerance particularly long reaching up to 
10 years. Its pathophysiology combines a lack of insulin secretion, an insulin 
resistance secondary to chronic infection, and a decrease in the production of 
the GIP and GLP-1. The insulin secretion depending on the channel chlorine 
(Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane conductance Regulator [CFTR]) activity at the 
membrane surface of insulin cell is reduced prior to the occurrence of 
pancreatic histological lesions. At the stage of diabetes, obtaining a 
normoglycemia by insulin treatment began very early allows to slow the decline 
of lung function and nutritional status. Given the silent phase of diabetes, 
screening it is recommended by the realization of an annual OGTT from 10 years 
of age, or before in severe forms of CF. New treatments of CF able to target 
CFTR showed their efficacy in slowing the decline of lung function, and could 
also contribute to slow or prevent the onset of diabetes.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0929-693X(17)30059-3
PMID: 28231890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Arch Pediatr. 2016 Dec;23(12S):12S4-12S8. doi: 10.1016/S0929-693X(17)30056-8.

[Epidemiological trends of cystic fibrosis in France: 10-year perspective].

[Article in French]

Burgel PR(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Pneumologie et Centre de Mucoviscidose de l'adulte; Hôpital 
Cochin, Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Paris, 75014 Paris, France; Université 
Paris Descartes, Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris, France. Electronic address: 
pierre-regis.burgel@aphp.fr.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most prevalent severe genetic disease in the 
Caucasian population. It affects approximately 7000 patients in France, of whom 
54% are adults (≥18 years old). Improvement in therapeutic management has 
resulted in a major decrease in pediatric mortality and an increase in the 
longevity of adults with CF, resulting in a major increase in the number of 
adult patients over the past 20 years. Demographic forecasts indicate that the 
French adult CF population will increase by approximately 2000 patients between 
2010 and 2025. These data indicate the need for an adaptation of the healthcare 
system for providing high quality care to all CF patients in the near future.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0929-693X(17)30056-8
PMID: 28231893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. J Endocrinol. 2017 Apr;233(1):R15-R42. doi: 10.1530/JOE-16-0598.

Skeletal muscle insulin resistance: role of mitochondria and other ROS sources.

Di Meo S(1), Iossa S(2), Venditti P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of BiologyUniversity of Naples 'Federico II', Naples, Italy 
sergio.dimeo@unina.it.
(2)Department of BiologyUniversity of Naples 'Federico II', Naples, Italy.

At present, obesity is one of the most important public health problems in the 
world because it causes several diseases and reduces life expectancy. Although 
it is well known that insulin resistance plays a pivotal role in the development 
of type 2 diabetes mellitus (the more frequent disease in obese people) the link 
between obesity and insulin resistance is yet a matter of debate. One of the 
most deleterious effects of obesity is the deposition of lipids in non-adipose 
tissues when the capacity of adipose tissue is overwhelmed. During the last 
decade, reduced mitochondrial function has been considered as an important 
contributor to 'toxic' lipid metabolite accumulation and consequent insulin 
resistance. More recent reports suggest that mitochondrial dysfunction is not an 
early event in the development of insulin resistance, but rather a complication 
of the hyperlipidemia-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in 
skeletal muscle, which might promote mitochondrial alterations, lipid 
accumulation and inhibition of insulin action. Here, we review the literature 
dealing with the mitochondria-centered mechanisms proposed to explain the onset 
of obesity-linked IR in skeletal muscle. We conclude that the different pathways 
leading to insulin resistance may act synergistically because ROS production by 
mitochondria and other sources can result in mitochondrial dysfunction, which in 
turn can further increase ROS production leading to the establishment of a 
harmful positive feedback loop.

© 2017 Society for Endocrinology.

DOI: 10.1530/JOE-16-0598
PMID: 28232636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. HNO. 2017 Mar;65(3):261-270. doi: 10.1007/s00106-017-0333-0.

[The physiologic and the pathologic swallowing process].

[Article in German]

Cantemir S(1), Laubert A(2).

Author information:
(1)Hals-Nasen-Ohrenklinik, Kath. Krankenhaus Hagen gGmbH, Universität 
Witten/Herdecke, Dreieckstr. 15, 58097, Hagen, Deutschland. 
s.cantemir@kkh-hagen.de.
(2)Hals-Nasen-Ohrenklinik, Kath. Krankenhaus Hagen gGmbH, Universität 
Witten/Herdecke, Dreieckstr. 15, 58097, Hagen, Deutschland.

Erratum in
    HNO. 2018 Jan 9;:

It is estimated that 5 million people in Germany currently suffer from 
swallowing disorders. Due to increasing life expectancy and the good outcome of 
very premature infants, this number is expected to increase. Swallowing normally 
occurs in four phases, and for each phase there are diagnostic tools to assess 
whether the problem is anatomic-organic or functional. A detailed case history 
is followed by clinical examination of the cranial nerves, the orofacial region, 
the swallowing reflex, and pharyngeal and esophageal transit. Attention is also 
paid to age-related changes in the swallowing process, nasal regurgitation, 
retention at the base of the tongue or in the hypopharynx, and signs of 
aspiration.

DOI: 10.1007/s00106-017-0333-0
PMID: 28233016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Curr Urol Rep. 2017 Mar;18(3):22. doi: 10.1007/s11934-017-0669-8.

Use of Ultrasound in Pediatric Renal Stone Diagnosis and Surgery.

Morrison JC(1), Kawal T(1), Van Batavia JP(1), Srinivasan AK(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 3rd Floor, Wood 
Building, 34th and Civic Center Blvd, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.
(2)Division of Urology, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 3rd Floor, Wood 
Building, 34th and Civic Center Blvd, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA. 
SrinivasanA3@email.chop.edu.

Pediatric urolithiasis is on the rise globally and incidence rates have risen by 
6-10% annually over the past couple of decades. Given the increasing incidence, 
high likelihood of recurrence, and long life expectancy of children, the use of 
ionizing radiation in the diagnosis, management, and follow up of pediatric 
urolithiasis has been scrutinized recently and many institutions and 
organizations have emphasized the use of non-ionizing imaging modality such as 
ultrasound. This review examines the use of ultrasound in the diagnosis and 
treatment of pediatric urolithiasis. Specifically, the role of ultrasound in 
shockwave lithotripsy, percutaneous nephrolithotomy, and, more recently, 
ureteroscopy will be examined.

DOI: 10.1007/s11934-017-0669-8
PMID: 28233230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2017 Feb 1;21(2):202-207. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.16.0268.

Standard expected years of life lost due to tuberculosis in Poland.

Bryła M(1), Dziankowska-Zaborszczyk E(2), Maniecka-Bryła I(2).

Author information:
(1)Social Medicine, Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, Medical 
University of Lodz, Łódź, Poland.
(2)Epidemiology and Biostatistics Units, Department of Social and Preventive 
Medicine, Medical University of Lodz, Łódź, Poland.

SETTING: Central European countries such as Poland have higher tuberculosis (TB) 
morbidity and mortality than Western European Union countries.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate changes in mortality due to TB during the period 
1999-2012 in Poland and years of life lost due to the disease.
DESIGN: Information obtained from 5 219 205 death certificates in Poland during 
the period 1999-2012 was used for the study. Crude (CDRs) and standardised 
(SDRs) death rates due to TB were analysed. Standard expected years of life lost 
per living person (SEYLLp) was also calculated.
RESULTS: In Poland, TB and related complications contributed 0.23% of total 
deaths from 1999 to 2012. The SEYLLp was 3.46 per 10 000 population in 1999 and 
1.88 in 2012. It was respectively 5.75 and 3.12 for males, and 1.31 and 0.72 for 
females. The SEYLLp index decreased over the period (annual per cent change 
[APC] -4.27%, P < 0.05); the decrease was greater in females than in males (APC 
-4.75%, P < 0.05 vs. APC -4.15%, P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Despite an improvement in the epidemiological situation, TB remains 
the most common single cause of death due to an infectious agent in Poland.

DOI: 10.5588/ijtld.16.0268
PMID: 28234085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Orthop Traumatol Surg Res. 2017 May;103(3):335-339. doi: 
10.1016/j.otsr.2017.01.004. Epub 2017 Feb 22.

Epidemiology and treatment of acetabular fractures in a level-1 trauma centre: 
Retrospective study of 414 patients over 10 years.

Boudissa M(1), Francony F(2), Kerschbaumer G(2), Ruatti S(2), Milaire M(2), 
Merloz P(3), Tonetti J(3).

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie orthopédique et traumatologique, hôpital Nord, 
université Grenoble Alpes, CHU de Grenoble, boulevard de la Chantourne, 38700 La 
Tronche, France; CNRS UMR 5525, laboratoire TIMC-IMAG, université Grenoble 
Alpes, Pavillon Taillefer, 38700 La Tronche, France. Electronic address: 
mboudissa@chu-grenoble.fr.
(2)Service de chirurgie orthopédique et traumatologique, hôpital Nord, 
université Grenoble Alpes, CHU de Grenoble, boulevard de la Chantourne, 38700 La 
Tronche, France.
(3)Service de chirurgie orthopédique et traumatologique, hôpital Nord, 
université Grenoble Alpes, CHU de Grenoble, boulevard de la Chantourne, 38700 La 
Tronche, France; CNRS UMR 5525, laboratoire TIMC-IMAG, université Grenoble 
Alpes, Pavillon Taillefer, 38700 La Tronche, France.

BACKGROUND: Epidemiological studies of acetabular fractures (AFs) are scarce 
and, to our knowledge, the most recent one from France, by Letournel and Judet, 
dates back to 1993. Studies have suggested a decrease in high-energy AFs 
contrasting with an increase in low-energy AFs due to the longer life 
expectancy. However, a French case-series study failed to confirm these data. We 
therefore conducted a 10-year retrospective study in a level-1 trauma centre to: 
(1) characterise the epidemiological profile of AF; (2) and to describe the 
treatment strategy.
HYPOTHESIS: The epidemiological profile of AF in France is consonant with data 
from European case-series studies.
METHOD: All patients managed for AF between 2005 and 2014 were included in this 
single-centre retrospective study. All patients were re-evaluated at our centre 
or another facility 6 months after the fracture. The epidemiological data were 
compared in the three treatment groups: non-operative, open reduction and 
internal fixation (ORIF), and total hip arthroplasty (THA).
RESULTS: Between 2005 and 2014, 414 patients were admitted for AF. Mean age was 
49.4 years (range: 15-101 years). Treatment was non-operative in 231 (56%) older 
patients, most of whom had low-energy fractures involving the anterior wall. THA 
with or without acetabular reinforcement and screw-plate fixation was performed 
in 27 (7%) older patients, most of whom had posterior-wall fractures and 
experienced postoperative complications (26/27 patients, 96%). ORIF was used in 
156 (38%) younger patients, most of whom had high-energy fractures of greater 
complexity.
CONCLUSION: Our results reflect the current indications in AF management. The 
epidemiological characteristics in our population are comparable to those 
reported in the few recent European epidemiological studies. To our knowledge, 
this is the largest French epidemiological study since the landmark work by 
Letournel and Judet.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level IV, retrospective study.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otsr.2017.01.004
PMID: 28235575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Eur J Cancer. 2017 Apr;75:159-166. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2016.12.025. Epub 2017
 Feb 22.

Acceptable regret model in the end-of-life setting: Patients require high level 
of certainty before forgoing management recommendations.

Tsalatsanis A(1), Hozo I(2), Djulbegovic B(3).

Author information:
(1)USF Health Program for Comparative Effectiveness Research, Division for 
Evidence-based Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, University of South 
Florida, USA.
(2)Department of Mathematics, Indiana University, Gary, IN 46408, USA.
(3)USF Health Program for Comparative Effectiveness Research, Division for 
Evidence-based Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, University of South 
Florida, USA; Departments of Hematology and Health Outcome Behavior, H. Lee 
Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute, USA; Tampa General Hospital, USA. 
Electronic address: bdjulbeg@health.usf.edu.

BACKGROUND: The acceptable regret model postulates that under some circumstances 
decision-makers may tolerate wrong decisions. The purpose of this work is to 
empirically evaluate the acceptable regret model of decision-making in the 
end-of-life care setting, where terminally ill patients consider seeking 
curative treatment versus accepting hospice/palliative care.
METHODS: We conducted interviews with 48 terminally ill patients to assess their 
preferences about end-of-life treatment choices. We first elicited the patient's 
regret of potentially wrong choices with regards to the recommended management 
and provided information on life expectancy estimated by two prognostication 
models. We then elicited the patients' level of acceptable regret by assessing 
their tolerance for potentially wrongly accepting hospice care versus continuing 
unnecessary treatment. Using the levels of acceptable regret, we computed: (1) 
the probability of death above which a patient would tolerate wrongly accepting 
hospice care and (2) the probability of death below which the patient would 
tolerate unnecessary treatment. We also assessed patients' understanding of the 
interview questions using a 7-point Likert scale.
RESULTS: We found that the median probability of death above which a patient 
would tolerate wrongly accepting hospice care was 96% (95% CI 94-98%), whereas 
the median probability of death below which a patient would tolerate unnecessary 
treatment was 2.5% (95% CI 0.3-5%). We also found that the levels of acceptable 
regret measured for wrong hospice referral (mean = 1.52; SD = 2.26; min = 0; 
max = 7.72) were similar to the levels of acceptable regret measured for 
unnecessary treatment (mean = 2.10; SD = 4.33; min = 0; max = 23) (KW test; 
p = 0.68) indicating that acceptable regret levels for either of the wrong 
decisions is felt similarly. The results were independent of the estimated 
probability of death communicated to patients before the acceptable regret 
interview.
CONCLUSIONS: We have elicited empirical data that corroborated the acceptable 
regret hypothesis. The requirement for high level of certainty before accepting 
recommended management may explain the difficulties related to decision-making 
in the end-of-life setting.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2016.12.025
PMID: 28235727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Heart. 2017 Jun;103(12):893-894. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2016-310195. Epub 2017
 Feb 24.

Cost-effectiveness of a text message programme for the prevention of recurrent 
cardiovascular events.

Burn E(1), Nghiem S(1), Jan S(2), Redfern J(2), Rodgers A(2), Thiagalingam 
A(3)(4), Graves N(1), Chow CK(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(2)The George Institute for Global Health, Sydney Medical School, University of 
Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Westmead Hospital, Sydney, Australia.
(4)Westmead Clinical School, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.

Comment in
    Heart. 2017 Jun;103(12 ):893-894.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of Tobacco, Exercise and Diet 
Messages (TEXT ME), a text message-based intervention that provides advice, 
motivation, information and support to improve health-related behaviours.
METHODS: A lifetime Markov model was used to estimate major vascular events 
(myocardial infarctions and strokes) avoided, quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) gained, costs to the health system and the incremental cost per QALY 
gained. The model was informed by data from a randomised controlled trial of 
TEXT ME, with evidence from systematic reviews and meta-analyses used to 
estimate the effects of changes in risk factors on the risk of major vascular 
events. Expected costs and health outcomes were estimated with uncertainty 
surrounding these characterised using probabilistic sensitivity analysis and a 
number of scenario analyses.
RESULTS: For a target population of 50 000 patients with documented coronary 
heart disease, the intervention is expected to lead to 563 fewer myocardial 
infarctions, 361 fewer strokes and 1143 additional QALYs. TEXT ME is expected to 
lead to an overall saving of $10.56 million for the health system over the 
patients' lifetimes. The intervention can therefore be considered cost-saving 
and health-improving. Neither parameter nor structural uncertainty had a 
significant impact on the conclusion that TEXT ME is cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: The provision of TEXT ME is predicted to lead to better health 
outcomes and an overall saving in costs for the health system.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: anzctr.org.au identifier: ACTRN12611000161921.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2017. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2016-310195
PMID: 28235776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


15. Surg Endosc. 2017 Oct;31(10):4025-4033. doi: 10.1007/s00464-017-5441-0. Epub 
2017 Feb 24.

Fully covered stents are similar to semi-covered stents with regard to migration 
in palliative treatment of malignant strictures of the esophagus and gastric 
cardia: results of a randomized controlled trial.

Persson J(1), Smedh U(2), Johnsson Å(3), Ohlin B(4), Sundbom M(5), Nilsson M(6), 
Lundell L(6), Sund B(6), Johnsson E(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Institute of Clinical Sciences, Sahlgrenska University 
Hospital, Sahlgrenska Academy at the University of Gothenburg, 41345, 
Gothenburg, Sweden. jan.persson@vgregion.se.
