Dalvi-Isfahan M(1), Hamdami N(2), Le-Bail A(3), Xanthakis E(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, College of Agriculture, Isfahan 
University of Technology, Isfahan 84156-83111, Iran. Electronic address: 
Mohsen.Dalvi@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Food Science and Technology, College of Agriculture, Isfahan 
University of Technology, Isfahan 84156-83111, Iran.
(3)UMR GEPEA (CNRS 6144), ENITIAA, Rue de la Géraudière BP 82225, 44322 Nantes 
Cedex 03, France.
(4)SP-Technical Research Institute of Sweden, Food and Bioscience Unit, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.

Food processing is a major part of the modern global industry and it will 
certainly be an important sector of the industry in the future. Several 
processes for different purposes are involved in food processing aiming at the 
development of new products by combining and/or transforming raw materials, to 
the extension of food shelf-life, recovery, exploitation and further use of 
valuable compounds and many others. During the last century several new food 
processes have arisen and most of the traditional ones have evolved. The future 
food factory will require innovative approaches food processing which can 
combine increased sustainability, efficiency and quality. Herein, the objective 
of this review is to explore the multiple applications of high voltage electric 
field (HVEF) and its potentials within the food industry. These applications 
include processes such as drying, refrigeration, freezing, thawing, extending 
food shelf- life, and extraction of biocompounds. In addition, the principles, 
mechanism of action and influence of specific parameters have been discussed 
comprehensively.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2016.09.002
PMID: 28460942


707. Health Policy. 2017 Jun;121(6):691-698. doi:
10.1016/j.healthpol.2017.03.020.  Epub 2017 Apr 7.

Economic losses and burden of disease by medical conditions in Norway.

Kinge JM(1), Sælensminde K(2), Dieleman J(3), Vollset SE(4), Norheim OF(5).

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Bergen, Norway; Department of 
Health Management and Health Economics, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway. 
Electronic address: Jonas.Minet.Kinge@fhi.no.
(2)Norwegian Directorate of Health, Oslo, Norway.
(3)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, Seattle, WA, USA.
(4)Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Bergen, Norway; Department of 
Global Public Health and Primary Care, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(5)Department of Global Public Health and Primary Care, University of Bergen, 
Bergen, Norway.

We explore the correlation between disease specific estimates of economic losses 
and the burden of disease. This is based on data for Norway in 2013 from the 
Global Burden of Disease (GBD) project and the Norwegian Directorate of Health. 
The diagnostic categories were equivalent to the ICD-10 chapters. Mental 
disorders topped the list of the costliest conditions in Norway in 2013, and 
musculoskeletal disorders caused the highest production loss, while neoplasms 
caused the greatest burden in terms of DALYs. There was a positive and 
significant association between economic losses and burden of disease. 
Neoplasms, circulatory diseases, mental and musculoskeletal disorders all 
contributed to large health care expenditures. Non-fatal conditions with a high 
prevalence in working populations, like musculoskeletal and mental disorders, 
caused the largest production loss, while fatal conditions such as neoplasms and 
circulatory disease did not, since they occur mostly at old age. The magnitude 
of the production loss varied with the estimation method. The estimations 
presented in this study did not include reductions in future consumption, by 
net-recipients, due to premature deaths. Non-fatal diseases are thus even more 
burdensome, relative to fatal diseases, than the production loss in this study 
suggests. Hence, ignoring production losses may underestimate the economic 
losses from chronic diseases in countries with an epidemiological profile 
similar to Norway.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2017.03.020
PMID: 28461038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Ann Transl Med. 2017 Mar;5(6):142. doi: 10.21037/atm.2017.01.64.

The Ross procedure: time for a hard look at current practices and a 
reexamination of the guidelines.

El-Hamamsy I(1), Bouhout I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Montreal Heart Institute, Université de 
Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

Comment on
    Circulation. 2016 Aug 23;134(8):576-85.

The ideal aortic valve substitute for young adults requiring aortic valve 
replacement (AVR) remains elusive. Young and middle-aged patients have a longer 
anticipated life expectancy and a higher level of physical activity than their 
elderly counterparts. In recent years, there has been a growing focus on 
long-term outcomes following AVR in this specific patient population. These 
studies highlight the direct impact of the choice of prosthesis on long-term 
survival, quality of life and rates of valve-related complications in younger 
adults. Although conventional AVR using a biological or mechanical prosthesis 
significantly improve the natural history of the disease, there are many 
inherent limitations, which need to be addressed. Despite declining use of the 
Ross procedure in recent years, several long-term registry, cohort and 
comparative studies in the last decade, indicate a clear role for this operation 
in young and middle-aged adults requiring AVR. These advantages are manifest in 
terms of long-term survival, freedom from valve-related complications and 
quality of life. In this Perspective article, we discuss findings from a 
recently published propensity-matched analysis of long-term outcomes following 
mechanical AVR versus the Ross procedure, showing better cardiac- and 
valve-related survival in the Ross cohort, lower rates of stroke and major 
bleeding and equal rates of reoperation at 20 years. These data are placed in 
the broader context of currently available evidence regarding the Ross procedure 
and a broader discussion pertaining to its role in today's practice and the need 
to reexamine current valvular guidelines so they are more reflective of the 
actual evidence.

DOI: 10.21037/atm.2017.01.64
PMCID: PMC5395476
PMID: 28462222

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors have no 
conflicts of interest to declare.


709. Elife. 2017 May 2;6:e26362. doi: 10.7554/eLife.26362.

The Sec14-like phosphatidylinositol transfer proteins Sec14l3/SEC14L2 act as 
GTPase proteins to mediate Wnt/Ca(2+) signaling.

Gong B(1), Shen W(1), Xiao W(1), Meng Y(1), Meng A(1), Jia S(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Membrane Biology, Tsinghua-Peking Center for Life 
Sciences, School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.

The non-canonical Wnt/Ca2+ signaling pathway plays important roles in embryonic 
development, tissue formation and diseases. However, it is unclear how the Wnt 
ligand-stimulated, G protein-coupled receptor Frizzled activates phospholipases 
for calcium release. Here, we report that the zebrafish/human 
phosphatidylinositol transfer protein Sec14l3/SEC14L2 act as GTPase proteins to 
transduce Wnt signals from Frizzled to phospholipase C (PLC). Depletion of 
sec14l3 attenuates Wnt/Ca2+ responsive activity and causes convergent and 
extension (CE) defects in zebrafish embryos. Biochemical analyses in mammalian 
cells indicate that Sec14l3-GDP forms complex with Frizzled and Dishevelled; Wnt 
ligand binding of Frizzled induces translocation of Sec14l3 to the plasma 
membrane; and then Sec14l3-GTP binds to and activates phospholipase Cδ4a 
(Plcδ4a); subsequently, Plcδ4a initiates phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 
(PIP2) signaling, ultimately stimulating calcium release. Furthermore, Plcδ4a 
can act as a GTPase-activating protein to accelerate the hydrolysis of 
Sec14l3-bound GTP to GDP. Our data provide a new insight into GTPase 
protein-coupled Wnt/Ca2+ signaling transduction.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.26362
PMCID: PMC5423769
PMID: 28463110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that no competing interests 
exist.


710. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2017 Jun 1;98(2):263-268. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2017.02.015.

Breast and Prostate Cancer: Lessons to Be Shared.

Spratt DE(1), Jagsi R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan; Center for Bioethics and Social Sciences in Medicine, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Electronic address: rjagsi@med.umich.edu.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2017.02.015
PMID: 28463142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Am J Sports Med. 2017 Aug;45(10):2267-2275. doi: 10.1177/0363546517703347.
Epub  2017 May 2.

Economic Decision Model for First-Time Traumatic Patellar Dislocations in 
Adolescents.

Nwachukwu BU(1), So C(2), Schairer WW(1), Shubin Stein BE(1), Strickland SM(1), 
Green DW(1), Dodwell ER(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, 
New York, USA.
(2)University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

Erratum in
    Am J Sports Med. 2018 Jun;46(7):NP31.

BACKGROUND: The surgical management of traumatic patellar dislocations in 
adolescents is associated with a lower rate of recurrent dislocations compared 
with nonoperative care. However, the attendant cost of surgery and the 
quality-of-life benefit of a surgical treatment strategy are unclear.
PURPOSE: To compare the cost-utility of 3 management strategies for acute 
first-time patellar dislocations in adolescents: (1) nonoperative treatment 
only, (2) initial nonoperative treatment with surgery only for recurrent 
dislocations, and (3) immediate surgery.
STUDY DESIGN: Economic and decision analysis; Level of evidence, 2.
METHODS: A 10-year state-transition Markov model was constructed to compare the 
cost-utility of the 3 index treatment protocols. Utilities used to define health 
states were derived from a telephone interview of 60 adolescents with a history 
of acute patellar dislocations. The probability of transition between each 
health state was informed by the available literature. Direct costs were 
estimated using a statewide ambulatory surgery database, and indirect costs were 
estimated based on parental lost productivity. Effectiveness was expressed in 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). The principal outcome measure was the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: In the base case for our model, nonoperative treatment only was the 
least costly ($7300) but also the least effective (5.30 QALYs); initial 
nonoperative treatment with delayed surgery cost $10,500 for a 5.93 QALY 
benefit, while immediate surgical treatment cost $17,100 and provided 6.32 QALY 
benefits. Compared with nonoperative treatment only, initial nonoperative 
treatment with delayed surgery was associated with an ICER of $5100 per QALY. 
When immediate surgery was compared with a strategy of delayed surgery, 
immediate surgery provided incremental benefits at an ICER of $17,000 per QALY. 
The model was sensitive to the probability of surgical versus nonoperative 
treatment to achieve a full return to preinjury activity versus an intermediate 
lower state. When the probability of achieving a full return to preinjury 
activity with initial nonoperative treatment exceeds 47.5% (compared with 34.2% 
in the base case), then initial nonoperative treatment with delayed surgery is 
preferred to immediate surgery. Similarly, when the probability of achieving a 
full return to full preinjury activity with surgery falls below 51% (compared 
with 64% in the base case), then delayed surgery after initial nonoperative 
treatment is preferred.
CONCLUSION: Immediate surgery and delayed surgical treatment are both 
cost-effective treatment options; however, immediate surgical treatment provides 
the highest QALY gains within a 10-year time horizon. Our model sensitivity 
analysis highlights the role of optimizing functional and quality-of-life 
benefits in the treatment of acute traumatic patellar dislocations. These 
findings have implications for clinical guidelines and policy decisions relating 
to adolescent patellar dislocations.

DOI: 10.1177/0363546517703347
PMID: 28463547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. J Palliat Med. 2017 May;20(5):453-460. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2016.0571.

Research Priorities for Palliative Care for Older Adults with Advanced Chronic 
Kidney Disease.

O'Hare AM(1), Song MK(2), Kurella Tamura M(3), Moss AH(4).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Medicine, University of Washington and Veterans Affairs Puget 
Sound Healthcare System , Seattle, Washington.
(2)2 Center for Nursing Excellence in Palliative Care, Nell Hodgson Woodruff 
School of Nursing, Emory University , Atlanta, Georgia .
(3)3 VA Palo Alto Geriatric Research and Education Clinical Center , Palo Alto, 
California.
(4)4 Sections of Nephrology and Supportive Care, West Virginia University School 
of Medicine , Morgantown, West Virginia.

Older adults with advanced chronic kidney disease (CKD) often have multiple 
comorbid conditions, a high symptom burden, and limited life expectancy. There 
is mounting concern that the intensive patterns of care that many of these 
patients receive at the end of life are discordant with their values and 
preferences. The nephrology community has recognized that there are significant 
unmet palliative care needs in this population. In this article, we identify 
three broad areas of knowledge deficit where more evidence is needed to support 
the "best care possible" for this population: (1) what matters most to older 
adults with advanced CKD and their caregivers near the end of life; (2) how the 
nephrology community can best support older adults with advanced CKD to navigate 
complex treatment decisions throughout their illness; and (3) how the healthcare 
system should be reconfigured to promote patient- and family-centered care for 
older adults with advanced CKD. Research priorities include identifying 
opportunities for improving the end-of-life experience of older adults with CKD 
and their caregivers; developing and testing communication interventions before 
and during dialysis to ensure that treatment decisions reflect patients' 
preferences; and assessing the effectiveness of palliative care in improving 
quality of life for patients and caregivers, satisfaction with care, and 
aligning treatment decisions with patient goals and preferences.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2016.0571
PMCID: PMC5421510
PMID: 28463635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No competing financial interests exist.


713. Fetal Diagn Ther. 2018;43(1):72-76. doi: 10.1159/000472714. Epub 2017 May 3.

Early Delivery of Sacrococcygeal Teratoma with Intraspinal Extension.

Perrone EE(1), Jarboe MD, Maher CO, Berman DR, Ladino-Torres M, Kreutzman J, 
Treadwell MC, Mychaliska GB.

Author information:
(1)Section of Pediatric Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

Sacrococcygeal teratoma (SCT) with intraspinal extension is rare. There is a 
risk of paraplegia associated with prolonged spinal cord compression. We present 
the case of an infant with a prenatal diagnosis of an SCT with a large 
intraspinal component that was causing compression of the lower spinal cord. 
Ultrasound at 33 weeks showed bilateral lower extremity and foot movement 
without hydrops or cardiac failure. Multidisciplinary decision was made to 
administer betamethasone and proceed with Cesarean delivery at 34 weeks. A 
vigorous live-born female was delivered and a multilevel laminectomy was 
performed at day of life 4. The pelvic resection was performed at 4 months. 
Pathology revealed mature teratoma. She had an uncomplicated postoperative 
course, is ambulatory, continent of stool, and has no evidence of recurrence. We 
conclude that intraspinal extension of SCT should be evaluated prenatally with 
ultrasound and fetal MRI. If there is concern for spinal cord compression, early 
delivery and urgent decompressive laminectomy may diminish the neurologic 
sequelae of prolonged spinal cord compression. Since these cases are rare, risks 
of prematurity need to be weighed against the neurologic risks. These infants 
should be treated with a multidisciplinary approach.

© 2017 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000472714
PMID: 28463844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2017 May 3;99(9):768-777. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.16.00109.

The Cost-Effectiveness of Dual Mobility Implants for Primary Total Hip 
Arthroplasty: A Computer-Based Cost-Utility Model.

Barlow BT(1), McLawhorn AS, Westrich GH.

Author information:
(1)1Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, NY 
2Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY.

BACKGROUND: Dislocation remains a clinically important problem following primary 
total hip arthroplasty, and it is a common reason for revision total hip 
arthroplasty. Dual mobility (DM) implants decrease the risk of dislocation but 
can be more expensive than conventional implants and have idiosyncratic failure 
mechanisms. The purpose of this study was to investigate the cost-effectiveness 
of DM implants compared with conventional bearings for primary total hip 
arthroplasty.
METHODS: Markov model analysis was conducted from the societal perspective with 
use of direct and indirect costs. Costs, expressed in 2013 U.S. dollars, were 
derived from the literature, the National Inpatient Sample, and the Centers for 
Medicare & Medicaid Services. Effectiveness was expressed in quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs). The model was populated with health state utilities and 
state transition probabilities derived from previously published literature. The 
analysis was performed for a patient's lifetime, and costs and effectiveness 
were discounted at 3% annually. The principal outcome was the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), with a willingness-to-pay threshold of 
$100,000/QALY. Sensitivity analyses were performed to explore relevant 
uncertainty.
RESULTS: In the base case, DM total hip arthroplasty showed absolute dominance 
over conventional total hip arthroplasty, with lower accrued costs ($39,008 
versus $40,031 U.S. dollars) and higher accrued utility (13.18 versus 13.13 
QALYs) indicating cost-savings. DM total hip arthroplasty ceased being 
cost-saving when its implant costs exceeded those of conventional total hip 
arthroplasty by $1,023, and the cost-effectiveness threshold for DM implants was 
$5,287 greater than that for conventional implants. DM was not cost-effective 
when the annualized incremental probability of revision from any unforeseen 
failure mechanism or mechanisms exceeded 0.29%. The probability of 
intraprosthetic dislocation exerted the most influence on model results.
CONCLUSIONS: This model determined that, compared with conventional bearings, DM 
implants can be cost-saving for routine primary total hip arthroplasty, from the 
societal perspective, if newer-generation DM implants meet specific economic and 
clinical benchmarks. The differences between these thresholds and the 
performance of other contemporary bearings were frequently quite narrow. The 
results have potential application to the postmarket surveillance of 
newer-generation DM components.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Economic and decision analysis Level III. See Instructions 
for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.16.00109
PMID: 28463921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. J Anim Sci. 2017 Apr;95(4):1827-1835. doi: 10.2527/jas.2016.1266.

EXTENSION EDUCATION SYMPOSIUM: Getting the most out of your extension 
appointment and still having a life.

Powers W, Cockett N, Lardy G.

Managing the demands of an academic appointment in extension can be a 
challenging task. Demands from constituent groups, expectations of supervisors, 
and rigors of promotion and tenure processes can create pressures that young 
faculty did not expect. Throw in spousal and family duties and you have created 
a situation that many will find hard to navigate. However, there are ways to 
cope and, even better news, there are ways to excel in meeting the demands of an 
academic appointment and enjoying life. Because many new extension faculty 
members do not have prior experience in extension, best practices in documenting 
programs and extension scholarship over the pretenure period are provided in 
this paper. Appointments that include both research and extension are quite 
common at many land grant universities. The advantages of joint appointments are 
numerous and include the fact that more and more grant agencies are seeking 
integrated research, teaching, and/or extension projects. However, the time 
demands of joint appointments can be challenging. Joint appointments can be 
designed to help faculty members conduct important translational research and 
have it be applied in a production setting. By seeking commonalities in research 
and extension efforts, joint appointments can be very synergistic. Development 
of highly successful programs requires planning on the front end with an 
emphasis on an in-depth needs assessment to determine stakeholder needs for both 
research and extension. Impact assessment should be part of this planning 
effort. Performing as a successful extension faculty member while maintaining 
relationships outside of work is challenging and requires deliberate effort on 
the part of employees and supervisors to realize there is more to life than 
work. Some authors have referred to this as work-life balance, but it may be 
more helpful to think of it as work-life effectiveness. To do this, one needs to 
1) define what success looks like, 2) set boundaries and maintain control 
including control of your schedule, and 3) find time to ensure your physical, 
emotional, and spiritual well-being are nurtured in addition to your 
professional development. In summary, extension careers can be challenging at 
times as demands and expectations of stakeholders, supervisors, and rigors of 
the tenure system create formidable obstacles. However, by keeping a focus on 
the priorities of the position and looking for synergy in research and extension 
work, they can actually be quite enjoyable and very rewarding.

DOI: 10.2527/jas.2016.1266
PMID: 28464086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Br J Clin Psychol. 2017 Sep;56(3):286-302. doi: 10.1111/bjc.12138. Epub 2017
May  2.

Rumination, event centrality, and perceived control as predictors of 
post-traumatic growth and distress: The Cognitive Growth and Stress model.

Brooks M(1), Graham-Kevan N(1), Lowe M(2), Robinson S(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of Central Lancashire, Preston, UK.
(2)School of Education and Psychology, University of Bolton, UK.

OBJECTIVES: The Cognitive Growth and Stress (CGAS) model draws together 
cognitive processing factors previously untested into a single model. Intrusive 
rumination, deliberate rumination, present and future perceptions of control, 
and event centrality were assessed as predictors of post-traumatic growth (PTG) 
and post-traumatic stress (PTS).
METHOD: The CGAS model is tested on a sample of survivors (N = 250) of a diverse 
range of adverse events using structural equation modelling techniques.
RESULTS: Overall, the best fitting model was supportive of the theorized 
relations between cognitive constructs and accounted for 30% of the variance in 
PTG and 68% of the variance in PTS across the sample.
CONCLUSIONS: Rumination, centrality, and perceived control factors are 
significant determinants of positive and negative psychological change across 
the wide spectrum of adversarial events. In its first phase of development, the 
CGAS model also provides further evidence of the distinct processes of growth 
and distress following adversity.
PRACTITIONER POINTS: Clinical implications People can experience positive change 
after adversity, regardless of life background or types of events experienced. 
While growth and distress are possible outcomes after adversity, they occur 
through distinct processes. Support or intervention should consider rumination, 
event centrality, and perceived control factors to enhance psychological 
well-being. Cautions/limitations Longitudinal research would further clarify the 
findings found in this study. Further extension of the model is recommended to 
include other viable cognitive processes implicated in the development of 
positive and negative changes after adversity.

© 2017 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjc.12138
PMID: 28464228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Zhonghua Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2017 May 1;55(5):340-342. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0529-5815.2017.05.005.

[Consensus of prostate cancer screening].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Prostate Cancer Working Group of Genitourinary Cancer Committee in Chinese 
Anti-Cancer Association.

The incidence of prostate cancer is increasing rapidly in China, the clinical 
stage of prostate cancer patients is comparatively late and the overall survival 
rate is inferior to that reported in the developed countries. Prostate cancer 
screening is an effective measure to reduce the risk of death through early 
detection. In order to identify the best way of prostate cancer screening in 
China, the Chinese Anti-Cancer Association Genitourinary Cancer Committee 
Prostate Cancer Working Group reviewed all published data concerning the 
benefits and harms of screening for prostate caner and created the consensus. 
The consensus include the following points: screening asymptomatic men for 
prostate cancer by prostate specific antigen(PSA)testing in the general 
population is the potential measure to reduce mortality rates through early 
detection, PSA testing should be offered earlier in men with life expectancy 
over 10 years and men at high risk of prostate cancer.

Publisher: 
我国前列腺癌发病率呈逐年上升趋势，初诊的前列腺癌患者临床分期较晚，总体预后差。对高危人群进行筛查、早期诊断和治疗是提高我国前列腺癌患者总体生存率的手段。为规范前列腺癌筛查的方法，中国抗癌协会泌尿男生殖系统肿瘤专业委员会前列腺癌学组讨论并形成了相关专家共识。共识认为：前列腺癌筛查可以增加前列腺癌的检出率，发现早期前列腺癌；对预期寿命10年以上的男性和前列腺癌高危人群定期进行血清前列腺特异性抗原检测。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0529-5815.2017.05.005
PMID: 28464572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. BMC Infect Dis. 2017 May 2;17(1):318. doi: 10.1186/s12879-017-2417-6.

Modeling the patient and health system impacts of alternative xpert® MTB/RIF 
algorithms for the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

Tesfaye A(1), Fiseha D(2), Assefa D(2), Klinkenberg E(2)(3), Balanco S(4), 
Langley I(5).

Author information:
(1)Addis Ababa City Government Health Bureau, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. 
atabrish@gmail.com.
(2)KNCV Tuberculosis Foundation, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Global Health, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam Institute for 
Global Health and Development, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(4)Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(5)Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, Pembroke, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: To reduce global tuberculosis (TB) burden, the active disease must 
be diagnosed quickly and accurately and patients should be treated and cured. In 
Ethiopia, TB diagnosis mainly relies on spot-morning-spot (SMS) sputum sample 
smear analysis using Ziehl-Neelsen staining techniques (ZN). Since 2014 targeted 
use of xpert has been implemented. New diagnostic techniques have higher 
sensitivity and are likely to detect more cases if routinely implemented. The 
objective of our study was to project the effects of alternative diagnostic 
algorithms on the patient, health system, and costs, and identify cost-effective 
algorithms that increase TB case detection in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
METHODS: An observational quantitative modeling framework was applied using the 
Virtual Implementation approach. The model was designed to represent the 
operational and epidemiological context of Addis Ababa, the capital city of 
Ethiopia. We compared eight diagnostic algorithm with ZN microscopy, light 
emitting diode (LED) fluorescence microscopy and Xpert MTB/RIF. Interventions 
with an annualized cost per averted disability adjusted life year (DALY) of less 
than the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita are considered cost-effective 
interventions.
RESULTS: With a cost lower than the average per-capita GDP (US$690 for Ethiopia) 
for each averted disability adjusted life year (DALY), three of the modeled 
algorithms are cost-effective. Implementing them would have important patient, 
health system, and population-level effects in the context of Addis Ababa ❖ The 
full roll-out of Xpert MTB/RIF as the primary test for all presumptive TB cases 
would avert 91170 DALYs (95% credible interval [CrI] 54888 - 127448) with an 
additional health system cost of US$ 11.6 million over the next 10 years. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) is $370 per DALY averted. ❖ Same day 
LED fluorescence microscopy for all presumptive TB cases combined with Xpert 
MTB/RIF targeted to HIV-positive and High multidrug resistant (MDR) risk groups 
would avert 73600 DALYs( 95% CrI 48373 - 99214) with an additional cost of 
US$5.1 million over the next 10 years. The ICER is $169per DALY averted. ❖ 
Same-day LED fluorescence microscopy for all presumptive TB cases (and no Xpert 
MTB/RIF) would avert 43580 DALYs with a reduction cost of US$ 0.2 million over 
the next 10years. The ICER is $13 per DALY averted.
CONCLUSIONS: The full roll-out of Xpert MTB/RIF is predicted to be the best 
option to substantially reduce the TB burden in Addis Ababa and is considered 
cost effective. However, the investment cost to implement this is far beyond the 
budget of the national TB control program. Targeted use of Xpert MTB/RIF for HIV 
positive and high MDR risk groups with same-day LED fluorescence microscopy for 
all other presumptive TB cases is an affordable alternative.

DOI: 10.1186/s12879-017-2417-6
PMCID: PMC5414345
PMID: 28464797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2017 May 2;15(1):89. doi:
10.1186/s12955-017-0659-z.

Functional disability associated with disease and quality-of-life parameters in 
Chinese patients with rheumatoid arthritis.

Ji J(1), Zhang L(1)(2), Zhang Q(1)(2), Yin R(1)(2), Fu T(1)(2), Li L(3), Gu 
Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, 20th 
Xisi Road, 226001, Nantong, People's Republic of China.
(2)School of Nursing, Nantong University, 19th Qixiu Road, 226001, Nantong, 
People's Republic of China.
(3)School of Nursing, Nantong University, 19th Qixiu Road, 226001, Nantong, 
People's Republic of China. larry017@163.com.
(4)Department of Rheumatology, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, 20th 
Xisi Road, 226001, Nantong, People's Republic of China. guzf@ntu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: As an important outcome measure among rheumatoid arthritis (RA) 
patients, functional disability may contribute to unemployment, loss of work 
productivity, and impaired quality of life. However, little is known about the 
risk factors of functional disability in Chinese RA patients. This study aimed 
(1) to examine the prevalence of functional disability in Chinese RA patients; 
(2) to explore factors associated with the health assessment 
questionnaire-disability index (HAQ-DI).
METHODS: A total of 101 RA patients in this cross-sectional study underwent 
standardized laboratory examinations and responded to the questionnaire for 
demographic data, the HAQ-DI for functional disability, the Compliance 
Questionnaire on Rheumatology (CQR) for medication adherence, the Hospital 
Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) for psychological status, and the Short Form 
36 health survey (SF-36) for quality of life. Pain, grip/pinch strength, disease 
activity, and large joint mobility were recorded. Independent samples t-tests, 
chi-square analyses, and logistic regression modeling were used to analyze the 
data.
RESULTS: The mean ± SD age of RA patients was 54.9 ± 11.9 years. Approximately 
15.8% RA patients in mainland China experience functional disability (defined as 
a HAQ-DI score ≥ 1). Long disease duration, pain, high disease activity, a 
larger number of tender and swollen joints, high C-reactive protein (CRP) level, 
decreased grip strength, and limitation of shoulder, elbow, wrist, knee, and 
ankle motion were associated with the HAQ-DI. Participants with functional 
disability tended to have more severe depressive symptoms and a lower quality of 
life compared with individuals without functional disability. Stepwise logistic 
regression analyses found that limitation of wrist extension (P = 0.001) and 
lower body pain (BP) score (P = 0.001) explained higher HAQ-DI score.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study reported that functional disability was common in 
Chinese RA patients. A low quality of life and limitation of joint mobility had 
great impacts on functional disability in Chinese RA patients. Targeted and 
culturally sensitive interventions should be strengthened to delay the onset of 
disabilities of this population.

DOI: 10.1186/s12955-017-0659-z
PMCID: PMC5414118
PMID: 28464888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. World J Emerg Surg. 2017 Apr 28;12:20. doi: 10.1186/s13017-017-0128-3. 
eCollection 2017.

Acute care surgery: a means for providing cost-effective, quality care for 
gallstone pancreatitis.

Murphy PB(1), Paskar D(2), Hilsden R(1), Koichopolos J(1), Mele TS(1)(3); 
Western Ontario Research Collaborative on Acute Care Surgery.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Surgery, Department of Surgery, Schulich School of 
Medicine and Dentistry, Western University, London, Canada.
(2)Divisions of General Surgery Trauma & Critical Care Medicine, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(3)Divisions of Critical Care, Department of Surgery, Schulich School of 
Medicine and Dentistry, Western University, London, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Modern practice guidelines recommend index cholecystectomy (IC) for 
patients admitted with gallstone pancreatitis (GSP). However, this benchmark has 
been difficult to widely achieve. Previous work has demonstrated that dedicated 
acute care surgery (ACS) services can facilitate IC. However, the associated 
financial costs and economic effectiveness of this intervention are unknown and 
represent potential barriers to ACS adoption. We investigated the impact of an 
ACS service at two hospitals before and after implementation on cost 
effectiveness, patient quality-adjusted life years (QALY) and impact on rates of 
IC.
METHODS: All patients admitted with non-severe GSP to two tertiary care teaching 
hospitals from January 2008-May 2015 were reviewed. The diagnosis of GSP was 
confirmed upon review of clinical, biochemical and radiographic criteria. 
Patients were divided into three time periods based on the presence of ACS 
(none, at one hospital, at both hospitals). Data were collected regarding 
demographics, cholecystectomy timing, resource utilization, and associated 
costs. QALY analyses were performed and incremental cost effectiveness ratios 
were calculated comparing pre-ACS to post-ACS periods.
RESULTS: In 435 patients admitted for GSP, IC increased from 16 to 76% after 
implementing an ACS service at both hospitals. There was a significant reduction 
in admissions and emergency room visits for GSP after introduction of ACS 
services (p < 0.001). There was no difference in length of stay or conversion to 
an open operation. The implementation of the ACS service was associated with a 
decrease in cost of $1162 per patient undergoing cholecystectomy, representing a 
12.6% savings. The time period with both hospitals having established ACS 
services resulted in a highly favorable cost to quality-adjusted life year ratio 
(QALY gained and financial costs decreased).
CONCLUSIONS: ACS services facilitate cost-effective management of GSP. The 
result is improved and timelier patient care with decreased healthcare costs. 
Hospitals without a dedicated ACS service should strongly consider adopting this 
model of care.

DOI: 10.1186/s13017-017-0128-3
PMCID: PMC5410020
PMID: 28465716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. J Cardiovasc Echogr. 2014 Jan-Mar;24(1):1-9. doi: 10.4103/2211-4122.131985.

Three-Dimensional Echocardiography: Advancements in Qualitative and Quantitative 
Analyses of Mitral Valve Morphology in Mitral Valve Prolapse.

Gripari P(1), Muratori M(1), Fusini L(1), Tamborini G(1), Pepi M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centro Cardiologico Monzino, Istituto di ricovero e cura a carattere 
scientifico, Milano, Italy.

Degenerative mitral valve disease (MVD) is the leading cause of organic mitral 
regurgitation (MR), one of the most common valvular heart disease in western 
countries. Substantial progresses in the surgical treatment of degenerative MVD 
have improved life expectancy of patients with significant MR. However, 
prognosis, surgical decision and timing of surgery strongly depend on the 
accurate characterization of mitral valve (MV) anatomy and pathology and on the 
precise quantification of MR. Three-dimensional (3D) echocardiography, a major 
technological breakthrough in the field of cardiovascular imaging, provides 
several advantages over two-dimensional (2D) imaging in the qualitative and 
quantitative evaluations of MV apparatus. In this review, we focus on the 
contribution of this new modality to the diagnosis of degenerative MVD, the 
quantitative assessment of MR severity, the selection and monitoring of surgical 
and percutaneous procedures, the evaluation of procedural outcomes. The results 
of a systematic and exhaustive search of the existing literature, restricted to 
real-time 3D echocardiography in adults, are here reported.

DOI: 10.4103/2211-4122.131985
PMCID: PMC5353406
PMID: 28465897

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


722. Int J Ment Health Nurs. 2018 Apr;27(2):619-630. doi: 10.1111/inm.12343. Epub
 2017 May 2.

Impact of nurse-led behavioural counselling to improve metabolic health and 
physical activity among adults with mental illness.

Fraser SJ(1), Brown WJ(1), Whiteford HA(2), Burton NW(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Human Movement and Nutrition Sciences, The University of 
Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(2)School of Public Health, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, 
Australia.

The life expectancy of adults with mental illness is significantly less than 
that of the general population, and this is largely due to poor physical health. 
Behavioural counselling can improve physical health indicators among people with 
non-communicable disease. This repeated-measures, single-group intervention 
trial evaluated the effects of a 19-week behavioural counselling programme on 
metabolic health indicators and physical activity levels of outpatient adults 
with mental illness. Sixteen participants completed the intervention that 
comprised individual face-to-face counselling sessions with a registered nurse 
every 3 weeks, and progress reviews with a medical practitioner every 6 weeks. 
Assessment included self-report and objective measurement of physical activity, 
and measures of blood pressure and anthropometry. Statistically-significant 
changes were demonstrated between baseline and post intervention for 
participants' waist circumference (P = 0.035) and waist-to-height ratio 
(P = 0.037). Non-significant improvements were demonstrated in weight and 
physical activity. The findings indicated that adults with mental illness can 
engage in a nurse-led behavioural counselling intervention, with improvements in 
some metabolic health measures after 19 weeks. It is recommended that 
behavioural counselling programmes for adults with mental illness be sustained 
over time and have an 'open door' policy to allow for attendance interruptions, 
such as hospitalization.

© 2017 Australian College of Mental Health Nurses Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/inm.12343
PMID: 28466504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Semin Cardiothorac Vasc Anesth. 2017 Sep;21(3):235-244. doi: 
10.1177/1089253217706164. Epub 2017 May 3.

Perioperative Management of Cardiac Transplant Recipients Undergoing Noncardiac 
Surgery: Unique Challenges Created by Advancements in Care.

Jurgens PT(1), Aquilante CL(2), Page RL 2nd(3), Ambardekar AV(4).

Author information:
(1)1 School of Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Colorado, Aurora 
Colorado, CO, USA.
(2)2 Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Colorado, Aurora Colorado, CO, USA.
(3)3 Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Department of 
Clinical Pharmacy, University of Colorado, Aurora Colorado, CO, USA.
(4)4 School of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, University of Colorado, Aurora 
Colorado, CO, USA.

Advancements in postcardiac transplant care have resulted in significant 
reductions in morbidity and increased life expectancy for cardiac transplant 
recipients. Consequently, many cardiac transplant recipients are living long 
enough to require subsequent noncardiac surgery. The perioperative care of heart 
transplant recipients presents a unique challenge as many of the common 
preoperative risk assessments do not apply to a transplanted heart, 
immunosuppressive medications have side effects and potential for drug-drug 
interactions, and the denervated heart results in an altered autonomic 
physiology and response to medications. Further adding to the challenge is that 
many of these noncardiac surgeries need to be performed urgently at 
nontransplant centers that may not be familiar with the care of these patients. 
This review aims to summarize the current data regarding preoperative 
assessment, perioperative immunosuppression management, intraoperative and 
anesthetic considerations, and outcomes of cardiac transplant recipients 
undergoing noncardiac surgery.

DOI: 10.1177/1089253217706164
PMID: 28466755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Ulus Travma Acil Cerrahi Derg. 2017 Mar;23(2):139-143. doi: 
10.5505/tjtes.2016.71508.

Can we make an early 'do not resuscitate' decision in severe burn patients?

Yüce Y(1), Acar HA, Erkal KH, Tuncay E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesiology and Reanimation, Kartal Dr. Lütfi Kırdar 
Training and Research Hospital, İstanbul-Turkey. dryyuce@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The present study was conducted to examine topic of issuing early 
do-not-resuscitate (DNR) order at first diagnosis of patients with severe burn 
injuries in light of current law in Turkey and the medical literature. DNR 
requires withholding cardiopulmonary resuscitation in event of respiratory or 
cardiac arrest and allowing natural death to occur. It is frequently enacted for 
terminal cancer patients and elderly patients with irreversible neurological 
disorders.
METHODS: Between January 2009 and December 2014, 29 patients (3.44%) with very 
severe burns were admitted to burn unit. Average total burn surface area (TBSA) 
was 94.24% (range: 85-100%), and in 10 patients, TBSA was 100%. Additional 
inhalation burns were present in 26 of the patients (89.65%). All of the 
patients died, despite every medical intervention. Mean survival was 4.75 days 
(range: 1-24 days). Total of 17 patients died within 72 hours. Lethal dose 50 (% 
TBSA at which certain group has 50% chance of survival) rate of our burn center 
is 62%. Baux indices were used for prognostic evaluation of the patients; mean 
total Baux score of the patients was 154.13 (range: 117-183).
RESULTS: It is well known that numerous problems may be encountered during 
triage of severely burned patients in Turkey. These patients are referred to 
burn centers and are frequently transferred via air ambulance between cities, 
and even countries. They are intubated and mechanical ventilation is initiated 
at burn center. Many interventions are performed to treat these patients, such 
as escharotomy, fasciotomy, tangential or fascial excision, central venous 
catheterization and tracheostomy, or hemodialysis. Yet despite such 
interventions, these patients die, typically within 48 to 96 hours. Integrity of 
the body is often lost as result of aggressive intervention with no real 
benefit, and there are also economic costs to hospital related to use of 
materials, bed occupancy, and distribution of workforce. For these reasons, as 
well as patient comfort, early do-not-resuscitate or do-not-intubate protocol 
for these patients is suggested. Resources could then be directed to other 
patients with high expectancy of life and patients with burns that are beyond 
treatment can experience more comfortable end of life.
CONCLUSION: At present in Turkey, it is not possible to give DNR order for 
patient with severe burns that are incompatible with survival due to legal 
interdiction. This subject should be discussed at high-level meetings with 
participation of doctors, legal experts, economists, and theologians.

DOI: 10.5505/tjtes.2016.71508
PMID: 28467581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2017 Apr 10;38(4):462-466. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2017.04.010.

[Health related quality of life on severe hand, foot and mouth disease 
patients].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Zheng YM(1), Yang J, Liao QH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Disease, Key Laboratory of Surveillance and Early 
Warning on Infectious Disease, Chinese Center for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Beijing 102206, China.

Objective: To evaluate the health related quality of life (HRQoL) for severe 
hand, foot and mouth disease (HFMD) patients with different complications. 
Methods: A national telephone interview under the EQ-5D proxy2 questionnaire 
(EQ-SD and EQ-VAS), was conducted to obtain the HRQoL of lab-confirmed severe 
HFMD patients, aged between six months and five-year-olds from the national 
communicable disease surveillance system from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 
2013. Results: A total of 685 severe HFMD cases were included in the study. A 
total of 456 (66.6%) of them were males with 75.8% of them younger than three 
years old. A total of 337 (49.2%) and 407 (59.4%) of the participants reported 
that they had problems in mobility or daily activities. A total of 569 (83.1%) 
and 616 (89.9%) of the cases reported having problems in pain/discomfort or 
anxiety/depression. The average EQ-5D and EQ-VAS scores were 0.58±0.23 and 
53.6±25.7, both were positively associated with the duration of illness. Mean 
quality adjusted life years loss during the HFMD episode for the severe patients 
was (15.45±13.75) years/1 000 persons. The QALY losses for severe patients with 
each of below complication were: respiratory diseases (11.17±8.83) years/1 000 
persons, aseptic meningitis (13.56±11.99) years/1 000 persons, 
encephalitis/brainstem encephalitis/acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) (15.31±12.63) 
years/1 000 persons, Myocarditis (17.28±18.16) years/1 000 persons, pulmonary 
hemorrhage/pulmonary edema (17.34±14.98) years/1 000 persons, cardiopulmonary 
failure (25.47±20.53) years/1 000 persons. Among patients with lab confirmed 
Entero virus A71 (EV71) (16.51±14.48) years/1 000 persons, the QALY loss was 
seen higher than Coxsackie virus A16 (Cox A16) (13.02±11.45) years/1 000 persons 
and other Enter virus (14.74±14.22) years/1 000 persons (Z=11.83, P=0.003). 
Conclusion: The HRQoL loss for severe HFMD patients substantially increased 
under complications exacerbation and related to the duration of illness.

Publisher: 目的： 评估手足口病重症患者的健康相关生存质量。 方法： 
以全国传染病监测信息报告管理系统2012年1月1日至2013年12月31日报告的实验室确诊的6月龄至5岁手足口病重症患者为研究对象，采用代理欧洲五维度健康量表，包括EQ-5D健康描述系统和视觉模拟标尺法（Visual 
Analogue Scale，EQ-VAS），通过电话调查方式获得患者在患病期间的健康相关生存质量。 结果： 
对685名手足口病重症患者进行调查，男性456例（66.6%），519例（75.8%）研究对象为≤3岁儿童。337例（49.2%）和407例（59.4%）手足口病重症患者在行动能力和日常活动维度报告有问题，569例（83.1%）和616例（89.9%）患者在疼痛/不适和焦虑/抑郁维度报告有问题。重症患者的平均健康效用值为0.58±0.23，EQ-VAS评分为53.6±25.7，随病程延长评分降低。手足口病重症患者患病期间平均质量调整生命年损失为（15.45±13.75）年/1 
000人，各并发症患者的质量调整生命年损失（年/1 000人）分别为呼吸道感染11.17 
±8.83；无菌性脑膜炎13.56±11.99；脑干脑炎/急性弛缓性麻痹（acute flaccid 
paralysis，AFP）15.31±12.63；心肌炎17.28±18.16；肺出血/肺水肿17.34±14.98；心肺衰竭25.47±20.53。EV71相关患者的质量调整生命年损失为16.51±14.48，高于柯萨奇病毒A组16型（Cox 
A16）感染患者的13.02±11.45和其他肠道病毒感染患者的14.74±14.22（Z=11.83，P=0.003）。 结论： 
手足口病重症患者的健康相关生存质量受影响较大，且随着并发症的加重和病程的延长而加重。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2017.04.010
PMID: 28468063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. BMC Infect Dis. 2017 May 3;17(1):322. doi: 10.1186/s12879-017-2420-y.

Universal test, treat, and keep: improving ART retention is key in 
cost-effective HIV control in Uganda.

McCreesh N(1), Andrianakis I(2), Nsubuga RN(3), Strong M(4), Vernon I(5), 
McKinley TJ(6), Oakley JE(7), Goldstein M(5), Hayes R(2), White RG(2).

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, London, WC1E 
7HT, UK. Nicky.mccreesh@lshtm.ac.uk.
(2)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, London, WC1E 
7HT, UK.
(3)MRC/UVRI Research Unit on AIDS, P.O. Box 49, Entebbe, Uganda.
(4)School of Health and Related Research, The University of Sheffield, 30 Regent 
Street, Sheffield, S1 4DA, UK.
(5)Department of Mathematical Sciences, Durham University, Lower Mountjoy, 
Stockton Road, Durham, DH1 3LE, UK.
(6)College of Engineering, Mathematics and Physical Sciences, University of 
Exeter, Campusm Penryn, Penryn, TR10 9FE, UK.
(7)School of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Sheffield, The Hicks 
Building, Hounsfield Road, Sheffield, S3 7RH, UK.

BACKGROUND: With ambitious new UNAIDS targets to end AIDS by 2030, and new WHO 
treatment guidelines, there is increased interest in the best way to scale-up 
ART coverage. We investigate the cost-effectiveness of various ART scale-up 
options in Uganda.
METHODS: Individual-based HIV/ART model of Uganda, calibrated using history 
matching. 22 ART scale-up strategies were simulated from 2016 to 2030, 
comprising different combinations of six single interventions (1. increased HIV 
testing rates, 2. no CD4 threshold for ART initiation, 3. improved ART 
retention, 4. increased ART restart rates, 5. improved linkage to care, 6. 
improved pre-ART care). The incremental net monetary benefit (NMB) of each 
intervention was calculated, for a wide range of different willingness/ability 
to pay (WTP) per DALY averted (health-service perspective, 3% discount rate).
RESULTS: For all WTP thresholds above $210, interventions including removing the 
CD4 threshold were likely to be most cost-effective. At a WTP of $715 
(1 × per-capita-GDP) interventions to improve linkage to and 
retention/re-enrolment in HIV care were highly likely to be more cost-effective 
than interventions to increase rates of HIV testing. At higher WTP (> ~ $1690), 
the most cost-effective option was 'Universal Test, Treat, and Keep' (UTTK), 
which combines interventions 1-5 detailed above.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results support new WHO guidelines to remove the CD4 threshold 
for ART initiation in Uganda. With additional resources, this could be 
supplemented with interventions aimed at improving linkage to and/or retention 
in HIV care. To achieve the greatest reductions in HIV incidence, a UTTK policy 
should be implemented.

DOI: 10.1186/s12879-017-2420-y
PMCID: PMC5415795
PMID: 28468605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. BMC Health Serv Res. 2017 May 3;17(1):319. doi: 10.1186/s12913-017-2265-5.

The barriers and facilitators that indigenous health workers experience in their 
workplace and communities in providing self-management support: a multiple case 
study.

Conway J(1), Tsourtos G(2), Lawn S(3).

Author information:
(1)Flinders University, Adelaide, Australia.
(2)Discipline of Public Health, Flinders University, Adelaide, Australia.
(3)Flinders Human Behaviour and Health Research Unit, Department of Psychiatry, 
Flinders University, Margaret Tobin Centre, PO Box 2100, Adelaide, South 
Australia, 5001, Australia. Sharon.lawn@flinders.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: The inequality in health outcomes between Indigenous (Throughout the 
paper, the term Indigenous will be used to represent both Aboriginal Australians 
and Torres Strait Islander Australians.) and non-Indigenous Australians 
continues to be a major public health issue. Chronic conditions are responsible 
for the majority of the gap in life expectancy for this population. Evidence 
suggests that chronic condition management models focusing on self-management 
have led to improved health outcomes in Indigenous populations. The Flinders 
Closing the Gap Program (FCTGP) is a chronic condition care planning tool which 
aims to engage Indigenous people in self-managing their chronic conditions. 
Indigenous health workers (IHWs) can provide culturally appropriate 
self-management support; however there is paucity in current literature 
describing specific barriers and facilitators that they may experience when 
attempting to deliver this support. This study aimed to explore IHWs' 
perceptions of the effectiveness and appropriateness of the FCTGP, as an 
evidence-based example of self-management support, and to explore the barriers 
and facilitators that IHWs experience in their workplace and communities in 
providing self-management support.
METHODS: In-depth interviews were undertaken with five IHWs, drawn from five 
different states in Australia. Their selection was aided by key informants from 
the FCTGP training unit. Interviews were recorded and transcribed verbatim, and 
were analysed using thematic analysis.
RESULTS: The following themes were identified. IHWs reported that the FCTGP was 
appropriate, flexible and acceptable in their communities. Facilitators included 
factors improving client and worker empowerment, and activities around sharing 
knowledge. Barriers included competing priorities that clients experience 
relating to social determinants of health, and negative experiences within 
mainstream health services. IHW burnout from time pressures, lack of support, 
and high staff turnover were also considered important barriers.
CONCLUSIONS: This study contributes an insight into the experiences of IHWs who 
are considered important stakeholders in implementation and sustainability of 
chronic condition management programs, including the FCTGP. Recommendations 
focus on supporting and supplementing the role of IHWs and identify the FCTGP as 
a facilitator in providing self-management support to a population with complex 
needs.

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-017-2265-5
PMCID: PMC5415721
PMID: 28468612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. BMC Public Health. 2017 May 4;17(1):359. doi: 10.1186/s12889-017-4271-2.

Obesity-related health impacts of fuel excise taxation- an evidence review and 
cost-effectiveness study.

Brown V(1)(2)(3), Moodie M(4)(5)(6), Cobiac L(7), Mantilla Herrera AM(4)(8), 
Carter R(4)(5).

Author information:
