BACKGROUND: Sickle cell disease is an autosomal recessive inherited 
haemoglobinopathy which causes painful vaso-occlusive crises due to sickle red 
blood cell dehydration. Vaso-occlusive crises are common painful events 
responsible for a variety of clinical complications; overall mortality is 
increased and life expectancy decreased compared to the general population. 
Experimental studies suggest that intravenous magnesium has proven to be 
well-tolerated in individuals hospitalised for the immediate relief of acute 
(sudden onset) painful crisis and has the potential to decrease the length of 
hospital stay. Some in vitro studies and open studies of long-term oral 
magnesium showed promising effect on pain relief but failed to show its 
efficacy. The studies show that oral magnesium therapy may prevent sickle red 
blood cell dehydration and prevent recurrent painful episodes. There is a need 
to access evidence for the impact of oral and intravenous magnesium effect on 
frequency of pain, length of hospital stay and quality of life.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effects of short-term intravenous magnesium on the 
length of hospital stay and quality of life in children and adults with sickle 
cell disease. To determine the effects of long-term oral magnesium therapy on 
the frequency of painful crises and the quality of life in children and adults 
with sickle cell disease.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register, 
compiled from electronic database searches and handsearching of journals and 
conference abstract books.Date of last search of the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis 
and Genetic Disorders Group's Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register: 01 December 
2016.Date of last search of other resources (clinical trials registries): 29 
March 2017.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We searched for published and unpublished randomized 
controlled studies of oral or intravenous magnesium compared to placebo or no 
magnesium.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Authors independently assessed the study quality 
and extracted the data using standard Cochrane methodologies.
MAIN RESULTS: We included five randomized placebo-controlled studies with a 
total of 386 participants (aged three to 53 years). Two shorter parallel studies 
(n = 306) compared intravenous magnesium sulphate to placebo (normal saline) for 
admission to hospital due to a vaso-occlusive crisis, for which we were able to 
analyse data. The quality of evidence was moderate for studies presenting this 
comparison mainly due to limitations due to risk of bias and imprecision. Two of 
the three longer-term studies comparing oral magnesium pidolate to placebo had a 
cross-over design. The third was a parallel factorial study which compared 
hydroxyurea and oral magnesium to each other and to placebo over a longer period 
of time; we only present the comparison of oral magnesium to placebo from this 
study. The quality of evidence was very low with uncertainty of the 
estimation.The eight-hourly dose levels in the two studies of intravenous 
magnesium were different; one used 100 mg/kg while the second used 40 mg/kg. 
Only one of these studies (n = 104) reported the mean daily pain score while 
hospitalised (a non-significant difference between groups, moderate quality 
evidence). The second study (n = 202) reported a number of child- and 
parent-reported quality of life scores. None of the scores showed any difference 
between treatment groups (low quality evidence). Data from one study (n = 106) 
showed no difference in length of stay in hospital between groups (low quality 
evidence). Both studies reported on adverse events, but not defined by severity 
as we had planned. One study showed significantly more participants receiving 
intravenous magnesium experienced warmth at infusion site compared to placebo; 
there were no differences between groups for other adverse events (low quality 
evidence).Three studies (n = 80) compared oral magnesium pidolate to placebo. 
None of them reported data which we were able to analyse. One study (n = 24) 
reported on the number of painful days and stated there was no difference 
between two groups (low quality evidence). None of the studies reported on 
quality of life or length of hospital stay. Two studies (n = 68) reported there 
were no differences in levels of magnesium in either plasma or red blood cells 
(moderate quality evidence). Two studies (n = 56) reported adverse events. One 
reported episodes of mild diarrhoea and headache, all of which resolved without 
stopping treatment. The second study reported adverse events as gastrointestinal 
disorders, headache or migraine, upper respiratory infections and rash; which 
were all evenly distributed across treatment groups (moderate quality evidence).
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Moderate to low quality evidence showed neither 
intravenous magnesium and oral magnesium therapy has an effect on reducing 
painful crisis, length of hospital stay and changing quality of life in treating 
sickle cell disease. Therefore, no definitive conclusions can be made regarding 
its clinical benefit. Further randomized controlled studies, perhaps 
multicentre, are necessary to establish whether intravenous and oral magnesium 
therapies have any effect on improving the health of people with sickle cell 
disease.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD011358.pub2
PMCID: PMC6478130
PMID: 28409830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors: none known.


538. PLoS One. 2017 Apr 14;12(4):e0175837. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175837. 
eCollection 2017.

Do people who experience incarceration age more quickly? Exploratory analyses 
using retrospective cohort data on mortality from Ontario, Canada.

Kouyoumdjian FG(1)(2)(3), Andreev EM(4), Borschmann R(5)(6)(7), Kinner 
SA(5)(6)(8)(9)(10), McConnon A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, 
Canada.
(2)Centre for Urban Health Solutions, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(3)Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)National Research University Higher School of Economics, Russian Federation.
(5)Centre for Adolescent Health, Murdoch Childrens Research Institute (Royal 
Children's Hospital), Melbourne, Australia.
(6)Centre for Mental Health, Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, 
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia.
(7)Health Services and Population Research Department, Institute of Psychiatry, 
Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College London, United Kingdom.
(8)Griffith Criminology Institute, Griffith University, Brisbane, Australia.
(9)School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 
Melbourne, Australia.
(10)Mater Research Institute, University of Queensland, St. Lucia, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: We aimed to explore whether mortality data are consistent with the 
view that aging is accelerated for people with a history of incarceration 
compared to the general population, using data on mortality rates and life 
expectancy for persons in Ontario, Canada.
METHODS: We obtained data from the Ontario Ministry of Community Safety and 
Correctional Services on all adults admitted to provincial correctional 
facilities in Ontario in 2000, and linked these data with death records from 
provincial vital statistics between January 1, 2000 and December 31, 2012. We 
used life table methods to calculate mortality rates and life expectancies for 
this cohort by sex and 5-year age group. We similarly generated population 
comparison rates using publicly available data for the general population of 
Ontario in 2006 as the midpoint of the follow up period. We compared these 
mortality indices between the 2000 Ontario prison cohort and the general 
population by age group and sex.
RESULTS: The difference in all-cause mortality rates between the 2000 Ontario 
prison cohort and the general population was greatest for younger adults, with 
the prison cohort experiencing rates of death that would be expected for persons 
at least 15 years older at ages 20 to 44 for men and ages 20 to 59 for women. 
Life expectancy in the 2000 Ontario prison cohort was most similar to life 
expectancy of persons five years older in the general population at age 
intervals 20 to 45 in men and 20 to 30 in women.
CONCLUSIONS: For most of adulthood, life expectancy and mortality rates are 
worse for adults with a history of incarceration than for the general population 
in Ontario, Canada. However, the association between mortality and incarceration 
status is modified by age, with the greatest relative burden of mortality 
experienced by younger persons with a history of incarceration and modified by 
sex, with worse relative mortality in women. Future research should explore the 
association between incarceration status and markers of aging including 
mortality, morbidity and physical appearance.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175837
PMCID: PMC5391969
PMID: 28410398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


539. BMC Vet Res. 2017 Apr 14;13(1):107. doi: 10.1186/s12917-017-0999-2.

Metronidazole for the treatment of Tritrichomonas foetus in bulls.

Love D(1), Fajt VR(2), Hairgrove T(3), Jones M(1), Thompson JA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Large Animal Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine 
and Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, 77843, USA.
(2)Department of Veterinary Physiology and Pharmacology, College of Veterinary 
Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, 
77843, USA.
(3)Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Service, Department of Animal Science, College 
of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, 
77843, USA.
(4)Department of Large Animal Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine 
and Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, 77843, USA. 
jthompson@cvm.tamu.edu.

BACKGROUND: Tritrichomonas foetus is a sexually transmitted protozoon that 
causes reproductive failure, among cattle, so disruptive that many western US 
states have initiated control programs. Current control programs are based on 
the testing and exclusion of individual bulls. Unfortunately, these programs are 
utilizing screening tests that are lacking in sensitivity. Blanket treatment of 
all the exposed bulls and adequate sexual rest for the exposed cows could 
provide a more viable disease control option. The objectives of this study were 
twofold. The first objective was to demonstrate effectiveness for metronidazole 
treatment of a bull under ideal conditions and with an optimized treatment 
regime. This type of study with a single subject is often referred to as an 
n-of-1 or single subject clinical trial. The second objective of the current 
study was to review the scientific basis for the banning of metronidazole for 
use in Food Animals by the Animal Medicinal Drug Use Clarification Act of 1994 
(AMDUCA).
RESULTS: Results from an antimicrobial assay indicated that metronidazole at a 
concentration of 0.5 μg/mL successfully eliminated in vitro protozoal growth of 
bovine Tritrichomonas foetus. The estimated effective intravenous dose was two 
treatments with 60 mg/kg metronidazole, 24 h apart. A bull that had tested 
positive for Tritrichomonas foetus culture at weekly intervals for 5 weeks prior 
to treatment was negative for Tritrichomonas foetus culture at weekly intervals 
for five consecutive weeks following this treatment regimen. An objective 
evaluation of the published evidence on the potential public health significance 
of using metronidazole to treat Tritrichomonas foetus in bulls provides 
encouragement for veterinarians and regulators to consider approaches that might 
lead to permitting the legal use of metronidazole in bulls.
CONCLUSION: The study demonstrated successful inhibition of Tritrichomonas 
foetus both in vitro and in vivo with metronidazole. The current status of 
metronidazole is that the Animal Medicinal Drug Use Clarification Act of 1994 
prohibits its extra-label use in food-producing animals. Veterinarians and 
regulators should consider approaches that might lead to permitting the legal 
use of metronidazole in bulls.

DOI: 10.1186/s12917-017-0999-2
PMCID: PMC5391598
PMID: 28410582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Health Policy. 2019 Feb;123(2):166-172. doi:
10.1016/j.healthpol.2017.03.011.  Epub 2017 Mar 28.

Questioning the differences between general public vs. patient based preferences 
towards EQ-5D-5L defined hypothetical health states.

Ogorevc M(1), Murovec N(1), Fernandez NB(2), Rupel VP(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Economic Research, Kardeljeva pl. 17, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(2)Grupo Español de Pacientes con Cáncer, C/San Nicolás 15-28013 Madrid, Spain.
(3)Institute for Economic Research, Kardeljeva pl. 17, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia. 
Electronic address: rupelv@ier.si.

The purpose of this article is to explore whether any differences exist between 
the general population and patient based preferences towards EQ-5D-5L defined 
hypothetical health states. The article discusses the role of adaptation and 
self-interest in valuing health states and it also contributes rigorous 
empirical evidence to the scientific debate on the differences between the 
patient and general population preferences towards hypothetical health states. 
Patient preferences were elicited in 2015 with the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire using 
time trade-off and discrete choice experiment design and compared to the Spanish 
general population preferences, which were elicited using identical methods. 
Patients were chosen on a voluntary basis according to their willingness to 
participate in the survey. They were recruited from patient organisations and a 
hospital in Madrid, Spain. 282 metastatic breast cancer patients and 333 
rheumatoid arthritis patients were included in the sample. The analysis revealed 
differences in preferences between the general population and patient groups. 
Based on the results of our analysis, it is suggested that the differences in 
preferences stem from patients being more able to accurately imagine 
"non-tangible" dimensions of health states (anxiety or depression, and pain or 
discomfort) than the general population with less experience in various health 
states. However, this does not mean that general public values should not be 
reflected in utilities derived for coverage decision making.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2017.03.011
PMID: 28410808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2017 May 15;1053:1-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.jchromb.2017.03.035. Epub 2017 Mar 31.

Flavone polyphenols dominate in Thymus schimperi Ronniger: LC-ESI-MS/MS 
characterization and study of anti-proliferative effects of plant extract on AGS 
and HepG2 cancer cells.

Desta KT(1), Kim GS(2), Abd El-Aty AM(3), Raha S(2), Kim MB(4), Jeong JH(5), 
Warda M(6), Hacımüftüoğlu A(7), Shin HC(8), Shim JH(9), Shin SC(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Research Institute of Life Sciences, Gyeongsang 
National University, Jinju, 660-701, Republic of Korea.
(2)Research Institute of Life Sciences and College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Gyeongsang National University, Jinju, 660-701, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Veterinary Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Veterinary 
Medicine, Konkuk University, 1 Hwayang-dong, Kwangjin-gu, Seoul, 143-701, 
Republic of Korea; Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
Cairo University, 12211, Giza, Egypt. Electronic address: 
abdelaty44@hotmail.com.
(4)Gyeongsangnam-do Agricultural Research and Extension Services, Jinju, 
660-985, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, College of Medicine, Chung-Ang University, 221, 
Heuksuk-dong, Dongjak-gu, Seoul, 156-756, Republic of Korea.
(6)Biochemistry and Chemistry of Nutrition Department, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, Cairo University, 12211, Giza, Egypt.
(7)Department of Medical Pharmacology, Medical Faculty, Ataturk University, 
Erzurum, Turkey.
(8)Department of Veterinary Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Veterinary 
Medicine, Konkuk University, 1 Hwayang-dong, Kwangjin-gu, Seoul, 143-701, 
Republic of Korea.
(9)Natural Products Chemistry Laboratory, College of Agriculture and Life 
Sciences, Chonnam National University, 77 Yongbong-ro, Buk-gu, Gwangju, 500-757, 
Republic of Korea.
(10)Department of Chemistry and Research Institute of Life Sciences, Gyeongsang 
National University, Jinju, 660-701, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
sshin@gnu.ac.kr.

Thymus schimperi is a highly localized and a rare plant endemic to Ethiopia. An 
optimized and validated high-performance liquid chromatography-electrospray 
ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-ESI-MS/MS) method was applied to 
characterize 23 polyphenolic compounds found in ethyl acetate extracts of the 
plant. From those, flavones dominated and luteolin was the major component 
contributing 21.83% of the total composition (or 46.05±0.59g/kg of fresh sample 
weight). Validation data showed a determination coefficient (R2)≥0.997. Limits 
of detection (LOD) and quantification (LOQ) were 0.03-0.97 and 0.11-3.23mg/L, 
while recovery values spiked at 5 and 50mg/L were between 70.89-115.39 and 
67.65-120.19%, respectively. Except for caffeic acid and epicatechin gallate, 
the relative standard deviations (%RSDs) were far below 15%, showing acceptable 
precision values. The plant extracts inhibited cell proliferation and induced 
cell death in human gastric adenocarcinoma (AGS) and liver hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HepG2) cancer cells. This is the first report of polyphenolic 
components from T. schimperi being characterized using HPLC-ESI-MS/MS. Being 
components of many edible vegetables, fruits, and spices, the identified 
polyphenols suggest that T. schimperi could be a potential food with promising 
health benefits.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2017.03.035
PMID: 28411462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Cancer Treat Rev. 2017 Apr;55:173-180. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2017.03.007. Epub
 2017 Apr 3.

Aged patients with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer: Should we 
treat with chemotherapy?

Climent MÁ(1), Torregrosa MD(2), Vázquez S(3), Gironés R(4), Arranz JA(5).

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Service, Instituto Valenciano de Oncología (IVO), Valencia, 
Spain. Electronic address: macliment@fivo.org.
(2)Medical Oncology Unit, Hospital Universitario Dr. Peset, Valencia, Spain. 
Electronic address: marilotorre@gmail.com.
(3)Medical Oncology Service, Hospital Universitario Lucus Augusti, Lugo, Spain. 
Electronic address: Sergio.Vazquez.Estevez@sergas.es.
(4)Medical Oncology Unit, Hospital Lluís Alcanyís, Xàtiva, Valencia, Spain. 
Electronic address: girones_reg@gva.es.
(5)Medical Oncology Service, Hospital General Universitario Gregorio Marañón, 
Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: jarranza.oncomed@gmail.com.

Prostate cancer largely affects aged men and as life expectancy continues to 
increase, it is likely to be a growing burden requiring an adequate management. 
Aging is a heterogeneous process, thus, to assess the individual state of health 
when making decisions is essential. Comprehensive geriatric assessment allows a 
detailed evaluation of the state of health of a specific subject and can modify 
the therapeutic decision. It is still not commonly used because it is time 
consuming. Chemotherapy should be administered equally in aged well-fit patients 
as in the general population as per the SIOG (International society of geriatric 
oncology) recommendations for geriatric evaluation and treatment in prostate 
cancer patients. Chemotherapy with docetaxel or cabazitaxel is expected to have 
an efficacy and toxicity similar to younger patients and they might be 
considered treatment options for these patients among others. In vulnerable or 
frail patients, weekly or biweekly docetaxel regimens are acceptable treatment 
options.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2017.03.007
PMID: 28411479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Kidney Int. 2017 Aug;92(2):453-460. doi: 10.1016/j.kint.2017.02.018. Epub
2017  Apr 12.

Prediction and validation of the duration of hemodialysis sessions for the 
treatment of acute ethylene glycol poisoning.

Iliuta IA(1), Lachance P(1), Ghannoum M(2), Bégin Y(1), Mac-Way F(1), Desmeules 
S(1), De Serres SA(1), Julien AS(3), Douville P(4), Agharazii M(5).

Author information:
(1)CHU de Québec Research Center, L'Hôtel-Dieu de Québec Hospital, Québec, QC, 
Canada; Division of Nephrology, Faculty of Medicine, Université Laval, Québec, 
QC, Canada.
(2)Division of Nephrology, University of Montreal, Verdun Hospital, Montreal, 
QC, Canada.
(3)Plateforme de recherche clinique, CHU de Québec Research Center, Québec, QC, 
Canada.
(4)CHU de Québec Research Center, L'Hôtel-Dieu de Québec Hospital, Québec, QC, 
Canada; Division of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Université Laval, Québec, 
QC, Canada.
(5)CHU de Québec Research Center, L'Hôtel-Dieu de Québec Hospital, Québec, QC, 
Canada; Division of Nephrology, Faculty of Medicine, Université Laval, Québec, 
QC, Canada. Electronic address: Mohsen.Agharazii@crchudequebec.ulaval.ca.

Comment in
    Kidney Int. 2017 Aug;92(2):291-293.

The duration of hemodialysis (HD) sessions for the treatment of acute ethylene 
glycol poisoning is dependent on concentration, the operational parameters used 
during HD, and the presence and severity of metabolic acidosis. Ethylene glycol 
assays are not readily available, potentially leading to undue extension or 
premature termination of HD. We report a prediction model for the duration of 
high-efficiency HD sessions based retrospectively on a cohort study of 26 cases 
of acute ethylene glycol poisoning in 24 individuals treated by alcohol 
dehydrogenase competitive inhibitors, cofactors and HD. Two patients required HD 
for more than 14 days, and two died. In 19 cases, the mean ethylene glycol 
elimination half-life during high-efficiency HD was 165 minutes (95% confidence 
interval of 151-180 minutes). In a training set of 12 patients with acute 
ethylene glycol poisoning, using the 90th percentile half-life (195 minutes) and 
a target ethylene glycol concentration of 2 mmol/l (12.4 mg/dl) allowed all 
cases to reach a safe ethylene glycol under 3 mmol/l (18.6 mg/dl). The 
prediction model was then validated in a set of seven acute ethylene glycol 
poisonings. Thus, the HD session time in hours can be estimated using 4.7 x (Ln 
[the initial ethylene glycol concentration (mmol/l)/2]), provided that metabolic 
acidosis is corrected.

Copyright © 2017 International Society of Nephrology. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.kint.2017.02.018
PMID: 28412021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2017 Aug;217(2):194.e1-194.e8. doi: 
10.1016/j.ajog.2017.04.014. Epub 2017 Apr 13.

In vivo evidence of significant levator ani muscle stretch on MR images of a 
live childbirth.

Sindhwani N(1), Bamberg C(2), Famaey N(3), Callewaert G(1), Dudenhausen JW(2), 
Teichgräber U(4), Deprest J(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Development and Regeneration, Cluster Organ Systems, Faculty of 
Medicine, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(2)Department of Obstetrics, Charite University Medicine Berlin, Germany.
(3)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Biomechanical Section, KU Leuven, 
Leuven, Belgium.
(4)Department of Radiology, Friedrich Schiller University, Jena, Germany.
(5)Department of Development and Regeneration, Cluster Organ Systems, Faculty of 
Medicine, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: 
Jan.Deprest@uzleuven.be.

Comment in
    Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2017 Aug;217(2):110-111.

OBJECTIVE: Vaginal childbirth is believed to be a significant risk factor for 
the development of pelvic floor dysfunction later in life. Previous studies have 
explored the use of medical imaging and simulations of childbirth to determine 
the stretch in the levator ani muscle. A report in 2012 has recorded magnetic 
resonance images of a live childbirth of a 24 year old woman giving birth 
vaginally for the second time, using a 1.0 Tesla open, high-field scanner. Our 
objective was to determine the stretch ratios in the levator muscle using these 
magnetic resonance images of live childbirth.
STUDY DESIGN: Three-dimensional magnetic resonance image sequences were obtained 
to visualize coronal and axial planes before and after the childbirth. These 
images were obtained before the expulsion phase without pushing and were used to 
reconstruct the levator muscle and the fetal head in 3 dimensions. The fetal 
head was approximated to be an ellipsoid, and it is assumed that its middle 
section is visible in dynamic magnetic resonance images. Assuming 
incompressibility, the full deformation field of the fetal head is then 
calculated. Real-time cine magnetic resonance images were acquired for the 
during the expulsion phase, occurring over 2 contractions in the midsagittal 
plane. The levator muscle stretch is estimated using a custom program. The 
program calculates points of contact between the fetal head ellipsoid and the 
levator ani muscle model as the head descends down the birth canal and moves 
them orthogonal to its surface. Circumferential stretch was calculated to 
represent the extension needed to allow the passage of the fetal head.
RESULTS: Starting from a position in the preexpulsion phase, the levator muscle 
experiences a maximum circumferential stretch of 248% on the posterior-medial 
portion of the levator ani muscle, as shown in previously published finite 
element simulations. However, the maximal stretch was notably less than that 
predicted by finite element models. This is because our baseline 3-dimensional 
model of the levator muscle is created from images taken shortly before 
expulsion and thus is already in a stretched state. Furthermore, the finite 
element models are created from images of a healthy nulliparous woman, while 
this study uses images from a para 2 woman.
CONCLUSION: This study is the first attempt to estimate the stretch in levator 
ani muscle using magnetic resonance images of a live childbirth. The stretch was 
significant and the locations corroborate with previous findings of finite 
element models.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2017.04.014
PMID: 28412085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Trials. 2017 Apr 17;18(1):179. doi: 10.1186/s13063-017-1916-5.

A randomised controlled trial to determine the clinical and cost effectiveness 
of thulium laser transurethral vaporesection of the prostate (ThuVARP) versus 
transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) in the National Health Service 
(NHS) - the UNBLOCS trial: a study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.

Worthington J(1), Taylor H(1), Abrams P(2), Brookes ST(1), Cotterill N(2), Noble 
SM(1), Page T(3), Swami KS(4), Lane JA(1), Hashim H(5).

Author information:
(1)Bristol Randomised Trials Collaboration (BRTC), School of Social and 
Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Canynge Hall, 39 Whatley Road, 
Bristol, BS8 2PS, UK.
(2)Bristol Urological Institute, Level 3, Learning and Research Building, North 
Bristol NHS Trust, Southmead Hospital, Bristol, BS10 5NB, UK.
(3)Department of Urology, The Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation 
Trust, Freeman Hospital, Freeman Road, High Heaton, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE7 
7DN, UK.
(4)NHS Grampian, Department of Urology, Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, Foresterhill, 
Aberdeen, AB25 2ZN, UK.
(5)Bristol Urological Institute, Level 3, Learning and Research Building, North 
Bristol NHS Trust, Southmead Hospital, Bristol, BS10 5NB, UK. 
h.hashim@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) has been the standard 
operation for benign prostatic obstruction (BPO) for 40 years, with 
approximately 25,000 procedures performed annually, and has remained largely 
unchanged. It is generally a successful operation, but has well-documented risks 
for the patient. Thulium laser transurethral vaporesection of the prostate 
(ThuVARP) vaporises and resects the prostate using a surgical technique similar 
to TURP. The small amount of study data currently available suggests that 
ThuVARP may have certain advantages over TURP, including reduced blood loss and 
shorter hospital stay, earlier return to normal activities, and shorter duration 
of catheterisation.
DESIGN: A multicentre, pragmatic, randomised, controlled, parallel-group trial 
of ThuVARP versus standard TURP in men with BPO. Four hundred and ten men 
suitable for prostate surgery were randomised to receive either ThuVARP or TURP 
at four university teaching hospitals, and three district general hospitals. The 
key aim of the trial is to determine whether ThuVARP is equivalent to TURP 
judged on both the patient-reported International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) 
and the maximum urine flow rate (Qmax) at 12 months post-surgery.
DISCUSSION: The general population has an increased life expectancy. As men get 
older their prostates enlarge, potentially causing BPO, which often requires 
surgery. Therefore, as the population ages, more prostate operations are needed 
to relieve obstruction. There is hence sustained interest in the condition and 
increasing need to find safer techniques than TURP. Various laser techniques 
have become available but none are widely used in the NHS because of lengthy 
training required for surgeons or inferior performance on clinical outcomes. 
Promising initial evidence from one RCT shows that ThuVARP has equivalent 
clinical effectiveness when compared to TURP, as well as other potential 
advantages. As ThuVARP uses a technique similar to that used in TURP, the 
learning curve is short, potentially making it also very quickly generalisable. 
This randomised study is designed to provide the high-quality evidence, in an 
NHS setting, with a range of patient-reported, clinical and cost-effectiveness 
outcomes, which will underpin and inform future NICE guidance.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN registry, ISRCTN00788389 . Registered on 20 September 
2013.

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-017-1916-5
PMCID: PMC5392965
PMID: 28412960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. PLoS One. 2017 Apr 17;12(4):e0174572. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0174572. 
eCollection 2017.

Excess atherosclerosis in systemic lupus erythematosus,-A matter of renal 
involvement: Case control study of 281 SLE patients and 281 individually matched 
population controls.

Gustafsson JT(1), Herlitz Lindberg M(2), Gunnarsson I(1), Pettersson S(1), Elvin 
K(3), Öhrvik J(4), Larsson A(5), Jensen-Urstad K(2), Svenungsson E(1).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, Solna, Karolinska Institutet, 
Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Department of Clinical Physiology, Södersjukhuset, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Unit of Clinical Immunology, Department of Clinical Immunology and 
Transfusion Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Karolinska University Hospital, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Department of Medicine, Solna, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Department of Medical Sciences, Clinical Chemistry, Uppsala University, 
Uppsala, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), is a heterogeneous disease which 
predominantly affects young females (90%). SLE is associated with a shorter life 
expectancy than in the general population. Standardized mortality ratios (SMR) 
of 2.4 have been reported, which is comparable to diabetes. In modern societies 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the major cause of premature mortality. 
Accelerated atherosclerosis is generally assumed to be the underlying cause for 
SLE related CVD. However, previous studies diverge regarding whether 
atherosclerosis is more common in SLE than in controls. With this in mind and 
based on own clinical experience we hypothesized that accelerated 
atherosclerosis is not a general feature of SLE, but prevails in SLE subgroups.
METHODS: 281 SLE patients and 281 individually age and sex matched population 
controls, were investigated clinically. Fasting blood samples and risk factor 
data were collected. All participants were subject to B-mode ultrasonography of 
the carotid arteries. Carotid plaque occurrence and mean intima media thickness 
(mIMT) were recorded. Two SLE subgroups previously described to be at high CVD 
risk; 1) patients with nephritis and 2) patients with anti-phospholipid 
antibodies (aPL), and one subgroup reported to be at comparatively lower CVD 
risk; patients positive for Sjögren´s syndrome antigens A/B (SSA/SSB) antibodies 
were analyzed separately in comparison with their respective matched controls.
RESULTS: Median age was 49 (IQR 36-59) years, 93% were females. Manifest CVD; 
ischemic heart, cerebro- and peripheral vascular disease, prevailed in patients 
(12% vs. 1%, p<0.0001). Overall plaque prevalence did not differ (20% vs. 16%), 
but patients had slightly higher mIMT than controls (0.56 vs. 0.53 mm, 
p<0.0033). After age adjustment plaques, but not mIMT, remained associated with 
previous CVD events. Therefore we focused further analyses on plaques, a more 
robust measure of atherosclerosis. Patients with nephritis (40%), but neither 
aPL (25%) nor SSA/SSB (40%) positive patients, had more plaques than their 
respective controls (23% vs. 11%, p = 0.008). Notably, patients with nephritis 
were younger than other SLE patients (45 vs.49 years, p = 0.02). To overcome the 
confounding effect of age we performed an age-matched nested case-control 
analysis, which demonstrated that patients with nephritis had twice as often 
plaques (23%) as both non-nephritis patients (11%, p = 0.038) and controls (12%, 
p = 0.035).
CONCLUSIONS: In SLE excess carotid plaques are essentially confined to the SLE 
subgroup with nephritis. This subgroup had plaques twice as often as age-matched 
non-nephritis SLE patients and population controls. Non-nephritis SLE patients, 
including the aPL positive subgroup, which has a high CVD risk, had similar 
prevalence of plaques as controls. To prevent later CVD events, this novel 
observation calls for risk factor screening and initiation of 
anti-atherosclerotic treatment selectively in SLE nephritis patients. Preferably 
at nephritis onset, which is often at a young age. In a general perspective this 
study demonstrates the importance to perform careful clinical subgroup analyses 
when investigating heterogeneous, hitherto not clearly defined, conditions like 
SLE.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0174572
PMCID: PMC5393555
PMID: 28414714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


547. PLoS One. 2017 Apr 17;12(4):e0175847. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175847. 
eCollection 2017.

Mapping the SRS-22r questionnaire onto the EQ-5D-5L utility score in patients 
with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.

Wong CKH(1), Cheung PWH(2), Samartzis D(2), Luk KD(2), Cheung KMC(2), Lam 
CLK(1), Cheung JPY(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine and Primary Care, The University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong SAR, China.
(2)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, The University of Hong Kong, 
Pokfulam, Hong Kong, SAR, China.

This is a prospective study to establish prediction models that map the refined 
Scoliosis Research Society 22-item (SRS-22r) onto EuroQoL-5 dimension 5-level 
(EQ-5D-5L) utility scores in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) patients. 
Comparison of treatment outcomes in AIS can be determined by cost-utility 
analysis. However, the mainstay spine-specific health-related quality of life 
outcome measure, the SRS-22r questionnaire does not provide utility assessment. 
In this study, AIS patients were prospectively recruited to complete both the 
EQ-5D-5L and SRS-22r questionnaires by trained interviewers. Ordinary least 
squares regression was undertaken to develop mapping models, which the validity 
and robustness were assessed by using the 10-fold cross-validation procedure. 
EQ-5D-5L utility scores were regressed on demographics, Cobb angle, curve types, 
treatment modalities, and five domains of the SRS-22r questionnaire. Three 
models were developed using stepwise selection method. EQ-5D-5L scores were 
regressed on 1) main effects of SRS-22r subscale scores, 2) as per 1 plus 
squared and interaction terms, and 3) as per 2 plus demographic and clinical 
characteristics. Model goodness-of-fit was assessed using R-square, adjusted 
R-square, and information criteria; whereas the predictive performance was 
evaluated using root mean square error (RMSE), mean absolute error (MAE), and 
the proportion of absolute error within the threshold of 0.05 and 0.10. A total 
of 227 AIS patients with mean age of 15.6 years were recruited. The EQ-5D-5L 
scores were predicted by four domains of SRS-22r (main effects of 'Function', 
'Pain', 'Appearance' and 'Mental Health', and squared term of 'Function' and 
'Pain'), and Cobb angle in Model 3 with the best goodness-of-fit 
(R-square/adjusted R-square: 62.1%/60.9%). Three models demonstrated an 
acceptance predictive performance in error analysis applying 10-fold 
cross-validation to three models where RMSE and MAE were between 0.063-0.065 and 
between 0.039-0.044, respectively. Model 3 was therefore recommended out of 
three mapping models established in this paper. To our knowledge, this is the 
first study to map a spine-specific health-related quality of life measure onto 
EQ-5D-5L for AIS patients. With the consideration and incorporation of 
demographic and clinical characteristics, over 60% variance explained by mapping 
model 3 enabled the satisfactory prediction of EQ-5D-5L utility scores from 
existing SRS-22r data for health economic appraisal of different treatment 
options.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175847
PMCID: PMC5393614
PMID: 28414745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


548. PLoS One. 2017 Apr 17;12(4):e0175272. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175272. 
eCollection 2017.

Cost-effectiveness of nurse-led multifactorial care to prevent or postpone new 
disabilities in community-living older people: Results of a cluster randomized 
trial.

Suijker JJ(1), MacNeil-Vroomen JL(2), van Rijn M(2), Buurman BM(2), de Rooij 
SE(2)(3), Moll van Charante EP(1), Bosmans JE(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Section of Geriatric Medicine, Academic 
Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)University Center for Geriatric Medicine, University Medical Center 
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Health Sciences and EMGO Institute for Health and Care 
Research, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of nurse-led multifactorial care 
to prevent or postpone new disabilities in community-living older people in 
comparison with usual care.
METHODS: We conducted cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analyses alongside a 
cluster randomized trial with one-year follow-up. Participants were aged ≥ 70 
years and at increased risk of functional decline. Participants in the 
intervention group (n = 1209) received a comprehensive geriatric assessment and 
individually tailored multifactorial interventions coordinated by a 
community-care registered nurse with multiple follow-up visits. The control 
group (n = 1074) received usual care. Costs were assessed from a healthcare 
perspective. Outcome measures included disability (modified Katz-Activities of 
Daily Living (ADL) index score), and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). 
Statistical uncertainty surrounding Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratios 
(ICERs) was estimated using bootstrapped bivariate regression models while 
adjusting for confounders.
RESULTS: There were no statistically significant differences in Katz-ADL index 
score and QALYs between the two groups. Total mean costs were significantly 
higher in the intervention group (EUR 6518 (SE 472) compared with usual care 
(EUR 5214 (SE 338); adjusted mean difference €1457 (95% CI: 572; 2537). 
Cost-effectiveness acceptability curves showed that the maximum probability of 
the intervention being cost-effective was 0.14 at a willingness to pay (WTP) of 
EUR 50,000 per one point improvement on the Katz-ADL index score and 0.04 at a 
WTP of EUR 50,000 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: The current intervention was not cost-effective compared to usual 
care to prevent or postpone new disabilities over a one-year period. Based on 
these findings, implementation of the evaluated multifactorial nurse-led care 
model is not to be recommended.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175272
PMCID: PMC5393862
PMID: 28414806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


549. Salud Colect. 2016 Apr-Jun;12(2):251-264. doi: 10.18294/sc.2016.743.

[Analysis of the trend and impact of mortality due to external causes: Mexico, 
2000-2013].

[Article in Spanish]

Dávila Cervantes CA(1), Pardo Montaño AM(2).

Author information:
(1)Doctor en Estudios de Población. Profesor-Investigador, Facultad 
Latinoamericana de Ciencias Sociales, México. claudio.davila@flacso.edu.mx.
(2)Doctora en Geografía. Profesora-Investigadora, Instituto de Geografía, 
Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, México. apardo@igg.unam.mx.

The objective of this study was to analyze mortality due to the main external 
causes of death (traffic accidents, other accidents, homicides and suicides) in 
Mexico, calculating the years of life lost between 0 and 100 years of age and 
their contribution to the change in life expectancy between 2000 and 2013, at 
the national level, by sex and age group. Data came from mortality vital 
statistics of the Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Geografía (INEGI) 
[National Institute of Statistics and Geography]. The biggest impact in 
mortality due to external causes occurred in adolescent and adult males 15-49 
years of age; mortality due to these causes remained constant in males and 
slightly decreased in females. Mortality due to traffic accidents and other 
accidents decreased, with a positive contribution to life expectancy, but this 
effect was canceled out by the increase in mortality due to homicides and 
suicides. Mortality due to external causes can be avoided through interventions, 
programs and prevention strategies as well as timely treatment. It is necessary 
to develop multidisciplinary studies on the dynamics of the factors associated 
with mortality due to these causes.

DOI: 10.18294/sc.2016.743
PMID: 28414841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Sci Total Environ. 2017 Oct 15;596-597:69-78. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2017.04.026. Epub 2017 Apr 14.

Accumulation of nonessential trace elements (Ag, As, Cd, Cr, Hg and Pb) in 
Atlantic horseshoe crab (Limulus polyphemus) early life stages.

Bakker AK(1), Dutton J(2), Sclafani M(3), Santangelo N(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Hofstra University, Hempstead, NY 11549, USA. 
Electronic address: Aaron.K.Bakker@outlook.com.
(2)Department of Biology, Texas State University, Aquatic Station, San Marcos, 
TX 78666, USA. Electronic address: jdutton@txstate.edu.
(3)Cornell University Cooperative Extension, Riverhead, NY 11901, USA. 
Electronic address: ms332@cornell.edu.
(4)Department of Biology, Hofstra University, Hempstead, NY 11549, USA. 
Electronic address: Nicholas.Santangelo@hofstra.edu.

During early development, benthic organisms can accumulate nonessential trace 
elements through aqueous and particulate sources. This study investigated the 
accumulation of Ag, As, Cd, Cr, Hg and Pb in Atlantic horseshoe crab (Limulus 
polyphemus) pre-spawned eggs, embryos, and developing larvae collected from 5 
sites on Long Island, NY and compared these concentrations to that found in 
sediment, pore water, and overlying water. All investigated elements were 
detected in embryos and larvae at all sites. Arsenic was found at the highest 
concentration in each life stage across all 5 sites, followed by Ag, whereas Cd, 
Hg and Pb concentrations varied between sites. Chromium was not detected in 
pre-spawned eggs, but was present in embryos and larvae at all sites, however, 
along with Hg, significantly increased from embryo to larvae at most sites. We 
conclude that observed accumulation patterns are likely a result of abiotic 
factors, differences in uptake pathways between life stages and the rate of 
excretion. Future laboratory studies are required to understand the factors 
influencing the aqueous and dietary uptake of nonessential trace elements in the 
early life stages of Atlantic horseshoe crabs.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2017.04.026
PMID: 28415006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Arch Bronconeumol. 2017 Oct;53(10):568-573. doi:
10.1016/j.arbres.2017.03.004.  Epub 2017 Apr 14.

Reflections on the Implementation of Low-Dose Computed Tomography Screening in 
Individuals at High Risk of Lung Cancer in Spain.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Garrido P(1), Sánchez M(2), Belda Sanchis J(3), Moreno Mata N(4), Artal Á(5), 
Gayete Á(6), Matilla González JM(7), Galbis Caravajal JM(8), Isla D(9), Paz-Ares 
L(10), Seijo LM(11).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Oncología Médica, Hospital Ramón y Cajal, Madrid, España. 
Electronic address: pgarrido.hrc@salud.madrid.org.
(2)Servicio de Radiodiagnóstico, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, España.
(3)Servicio Mancomunado de Cirugía Torácica, Hospitales Universitari Mútua 
Terrassa, Sant Pau i Santa Creu y Mar, Barcelona, España.
(4)Servicio de Cirugía Torácica, Hospital Universitario Virgen del Rocío, 
Sevilla, España.
(5)Servicio de Oncología Médica, Hospital Universitario Miguel Servet, Zaragoza, 
España.
(6)Servicio de Radiodiagnóstico, Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, España.
(7)Servicio de Cirugía Torácica, Hospital Clínico Universitario, Valladolid, 
España.
(8)Servicio de Cirugía Torácica, Hospital Universitario de La Ribera, Valencia, 
España.
(9)Servicio de Oncología Médica, Hospital Clínico Universitario Lozano Blesa, 
Zaragoza, España.
(10)Servicio de Oncología Médica, Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre, Madrid, 
España.
(11)Servicio de Neumología, Hospital Universitario Fundación Jiménez Díaz, 
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria, CIBERES, Madrid, España.

Lung cancer (LC) is a major public health issue. Despite recent advances in 
treatment, primary prevention and early diagnosis are key to reducing the 
incidence and mortality of this disease. A recent clinical trial demonstrated 
the efficacy of selective screening by low-dose computed tomography (LDCT) in 
reducing the risk of both lung cancer mortality and all-cause mortality in 
high-risk individuals. This article contains the reflections of an expert group 
on the use of LDCT for early diagnosis of LC in high-risk individuals, and how 
to evaluate its implementation in Spain. The expert group was set up by the 
Spanish Society of Pulmonology and Thoracic Surgery (SEPAR), the Spanish Society 
of Thoracic Surgery (SECT), the Spanish Society of Radiology (SERAM) and the 
Spanish Society of Medical Oncology (SEOM).

Copyright © 2017 SEPAR. Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arbres.2017.03.004
PMID: 28416207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Arch Cardiovasc Dis. 2017 Aug-Sep;110(8-9):495-502. doi: 
10.1016/j.acvd.2017.03.001. Epub 2017 Apr 14.

HIV infection and aortic stiffness.

Leite LHM(1), Cohen A(2), Boccara F(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, São Francisco de Assis Hospital, Federal 
University, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Service de Cardiologie, Hôpital 
Saint-Antoine, AP-HP, Paris, France.
(2)Service de Cardiologie, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, AP-HP, Paris, France; Sorbonne 
Universités, UPMC-Université Paris 06, France.
(3)Service de Cardiologie, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, AP-HP, Paris, France; Sorbonne 
Universités, UPMC-Université Paris 06, France; INSERM, UMR_S 938, UPMC, Paris, 
France. Electronic address: franck.boccara@aphp.fr.

People living with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and receiving 
antiretroviral therapy now have the same life expectancy as the general 
population. However, they have a higher risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular 
events because of a complex and polyfactorial vasculopathy, combining the 
effects of antiretroviral therapy, the HIV virus itself, immune activation, 
chronic inflammation and metabolic disturbances. Whether people living with HIV 
infection experience increased vascular aging compared with the general 
population remains controversial. To summarize current knowledge of the 
association between HIV infection and aortic stiffness as a marker of vascular 
aging. This review included 18 clinical studies in adult populations, published 
between 2009 and 2016, and identified on PubMed/MEDLINE or other databases. 
Search terms were aortic stiffness, arterial stiffness, vascular aging, pulse 
wave velocity and HIV. All 18 studies were observational, and compared groups 
infected (HIV+) and not infected (HIV-) with HIV. Ten studies (55%) reported no 
significant differences in aortic stiffness between HIV+ groups and age-matched 
HIV- control groups. The main reported determinants of aortic stiffness were 
age, blood pressure, smoking, metabolic syndrome and HIV-related variables, 
including CD4/CD8 ratio, current T-CD4 count < 200/mm3 and nadir T-CD4+ count < 
200/mm3. We found discordant results regarding whether HIV+ patients had 
increased aortic stiffness compared with HIV- controls. However, HIV-related 
conditions were associated with vascular health. This association has been 
confirmed in recent prospective studies. There is emerging evidence that HIV 
itself and immune activity affect vascular health and the large arteries.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.acvd.2017.03.001
PMID: 28416296


553. Arch Pediatr. 2017 Jun;24(6):557-560. doi: 10.1016/j.arcped.2017.03.011.
Epub  2017 Apr 23.

[Life-threatening sleepwalking (Elpenor's syndrome) in a 10-year-old child].

[Article in French]

Madigand-Tordjman MA(1), Egler PJ(1), Bertran F(2), Jokic M(3), Guénolé F(4).

Author information:
(1)Service de psychiatrie de l'enfant et de l'adolescent, CHU de Caen, 4, avenue 
Georges-Clemenceau, 14033 Caen cedex 9, France.
(2)Unité d'exploration et de traitement des troubles du sommeil, CHU de Caen, 
avenue de la Côte-de-Nacre, 14033 Caen cedex 9, France; Inserm U1077, 
neuropsychologie et neuroanatomie fonctionnelle de la mémoire humaine, 2, rue 
des Rochambelles, 14032 Caen cedex, France.
(3)Réanimation médicale et chirurgicale pédiatrique, CHU de Caen, avenue de la 
Côte-de-Nacre, 14033 Caen cedex 9, France.
(4)Service de psychiatrie de l'enfant et de l'adolescent, CHU de Caen, 4, avenue 
Georges-Clemenceau, 14033 Caen cedex 9, France; Inserm U1077, neuropsychologie 
et neuroanatomie fonctionnelle de la mémoire humaine, 2, rue des Rochambelles, 
14032 Caen cedex, France; Université Caen Normandie, pôle de formation et de 
recherche en santé, 2, rue des Rochambelles, 14032 Caen cedex, France. 
Electronic address: guenole-f@chu-caen.fr.

Though benign in the majority of cases, sleepwalking sometimes causes injuries 
due, among other causes, to falls. Such accidents can be life-threatening - a 
situation that has been termed Elpenor syndrome (in reference to an accident 
experienced by a character in Homer's epic The Odyssey) - in particular when 
entailing defenestration. This syndrome has been described in adults and 
adolescents; we report here a case in a child.
OBSERVATION: This 10-year-old girl was admitted at night to our hospital after a 
3-m fall at home. She was alert (Glasgow score, 15) at admission; a frontal 
wound and a deformation of the right wrist were noted. Brain CT scans showed a 
frontal skull fracture and frontal lobe contusion, wrist x-rays showed a 
displaced right fracture. The patient underwent urgent neurosurgery (wound 
excision and suture after reduction of skull fracture) and closed reduction and 
immobilization of the wrist fracture, both under general anesthesia. She 
underwent a psychiatric assessment in the intensive care unit 3 days after her 
fall. She was alert, well-oriented in time and space, and spoke fluently. She 
had no memory of her fall, only remembering going to bed in the evening before 
the accident and waking up in the ambulance on the way to the hospital. She 
displayed no sign of a concurrent mental illness and no suicidal ideas. Her 
parents reported that the evening of the accident she and her two brothers had 
all fallen asleep about 11:00 pm while watching TV, in the double bed of the 
guest room, placed just beside its window. At approximately 1:00 am, her father, 
who was going to bed and had just made noise in the hall, heard a cry from the 
guest room. He entered the room immediately and saw the opened window and his 
daughter lying on the outside ground; the brothers only awakened after the fall. 
The family had returned 2 days before from a 6-month stay in the United States, 
with jet-lag, sleep deprivation, and a disorganized sleep/wake rhythm in the 
patient. There was no medication before the accident, no substance use 
(including caffeine), and no concurrent medical problem. Over the 2 preceding 
years, the patient had undergone two witnessed episodes of early-nighttime 
arousal with altered consciousness and calm wandering (including going 
downstairs on one occasion), both strongly suggesting sleepwalking. There was a 
history of sleepwalking in her father and her older brother. Life-threatening 
sleepwalking (Elpenor syndrome) was diagnosed. The child and her parents were 
educated about sleepwalking; regularization of sleep schedules and sleep 
extension (avoidance of sleep deprivation, short napping when possible) were 
prescribed. We also recommended securing the home (bed, windows, and stairways). 
No pharmacological treatment was instituted. During the following 18 months, the 
child manifested only one noted sleepwalking episode, without risk-taking. She 
had no neurological or psychopathological sequela from her accident, of which 
she never had a memory.
CONCLUSION: Elpenor syndrome can occur in a child; consequently, it is important 
to inform parents of children with sleepwalking about the necessity of always 
securing the night-time environment.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arcped.2017.03.011
PMID: 28416429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2017 Apr;10(4):e003706. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.117.003706.

Diabetes Mellitus Treatment Deintensification: When Well-Controlled Diabetes 
Mellitus Becomes Overcontrolled.

Raghavan S(1), Matlock D(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Veterans Affairs, Eastern Colorado Healthcare System, 
Denver (S.R.); Division of General Internal Medicine (S.R.) and Division of 
Geriatric Medicine (D.M.), Department of Medicine, University of Colorado School 
of Medicine, Aurora; Colorado Cardiovascular Outcomes Research Consortium, 
Denver (S.R., D.M.); and VA Eastern Colorado Geriatric Research Education and 
Clinical Center, Denver (D.M.).
(2)From the Department of Veterans Affairs, Eastern Colorado Healthcare System, 
Denver (S.R.); Division of General Internal Medicine (S.R.) and Division of 
Geriatric Medicine (D.M.), Department of Medicine, University of Colorado School 
of Medicine, Aurora; Colorado Cardiovascular Outcomes Research Consortium, 
Denver (S.R., D.M.); and VA Eastern Colorado Geriatric Research Education and 
Clinical Center, Denver (D.M.). daniel.matlock@ucdenver.edu.

Comment on
    Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2017 Apr;10(4):null.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.117.003706
PMCID: PMC5477665
PMID: 28416532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Hippokratia. 2016 Apr-Jun;20(2):99-103.

Estimating life expectancy of the population in Cyprus with the use of life 
tables.
