examples.
CASE STUDY MOBI-C ARTIFICIAL CERVICAL DISC: In 2006, an IDE was initiated to 
study the safety and effectiveness of total disc replacement controlled against 
the standard of care, anterior cervical discectomy, and fusion. Under the IDE, 
randomized controlled trials comparing both 1 and 2 level cervical disease were 
completed. The sponsor designed the initial trial as noninferiority; however, 
using adaptive methodology, superiority could be claimed in the 2-level 
investigation.
REVIEWING HEALTHCARE ECONOMICS: Healthcare economics are critical in medical 
decision making and reimbursement practices. Once both cost- and 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) are known for each patient, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio is calculated. Willingness-to-pay is controversial, but 
a commonly cited guideline considers interventions costing below 20 000 $/QALY 
strongly cost effective and more than 100 000 $/QALY as not cost effective.
CONCLUSION: While large Food and Drug Administration IDE studies are often 
besieged by complex statistical considerations and calculations, it is 
fundamentally important that clinicians understand at least the terminology and 
basic concepts on a practical level.

Copyright © 2017 by the Congress of Neurological Surgeons

DOI: 10.1093/neuros/nyx048
PMID: 28368529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Phys Occup Ther Pediatr. 1993;12(4):37-55. doi: 10.1080/J006v12n04_04.

Neuromotor Development of Preterm Infants Through the First Year of Life.

Bartlett D(1), Piper MC(2).

Author information:
(1)a Graduate Student, Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada T6G 2G4.
(2)b Professor and Dean, Faculty of Rehabilitation, University of Alberta.

Physical and occupational therapists monitor the development of preterm infants 
graduating form neonatal intensive care units and frequently use the neuromotor 
development of fullterm infants as the criterion against which normality is 
judged. Despite the methodological problems of comparison on non-homogeneous 
groups, poor matching, inadequate measurement tools, and expectancy bias, the 
literature suggests that preterm infants develop differently from full term 
infants. Neither the extent nor reasons for differences and suggestions for 
future research are proposed. Knowledge of the variability of preterm infant 
neuromotor behavior should be useful to pediatric therapists aiming to identify 
those infants who truly are developing abnormally.

DOI: 10.1080/J006v12n04_04
PMID: 28368731


402. Biol Bull. 1968 Oct;135(2):378-405. doi: 10.2307/1539789.

FORM AND HABIT IN SPECIES OF MALLEUS (INCLUDING THE "HAMMER OYSTERS") WITH 
COMPARATIVE OBSERVATIONS ON ISOGNOMON ISOGNOMON.

Yonge CM.

1. Study of the structure and mode of life of Malleus regula provides the basis 
for consideration of the "hammer" species, M. malleus and M. albus. 2. M. regula 
occurs byssally attached, vertically disposed on rocky substrates associated 
with mud and is widely distributed in the tropical Indo-Pacific. 3. The distal 
two-thirds of the elongated shell is exclusively prismatic. By means of special 
pallial retractors the mantle lobes can be withdrawn within the nacreous region. 
4. The massive opisthodetic ligament has a short secondary extension of fusion 
layer. 5. A promyal chamber on the right side proximal to the adductor increases 
water flow into the exhalant chamber. 6. The long filibranch ctenidia provide a 
vertically extended food-collecting surface. 7. The foot is concerned with 
planting of the massive byssus which emerges through a notch in the right valve 
but on the under ( i.e., dorsal) surface. There is also a unique and very long 
accessory foot, ventrally grooved, everywhere ciliated and in constant writhing 
activity due to blood pressure and intrinsic muscle. Moving freely throughout 
the lower mantle cavity it can only be concerned with cleansing. 8. Pseudofaeces 
are ejected from the distal tip of the mantle cavity. 9. M. malleus, the black 
hammer shell, occurs vertically embedded in coarse sand or sandy gravel. Byssus 
threads are attached to fragments within the substrate. The great anterior and 
posterior elongations of the hinge line (also exclusively prismatic) are 
separated by the byssal notch (now affecting both valves). 10. Shells are 
usually excessively irregular due to the great exposure to damage and the almost 
unlimited powers of rapid repair by the three pallial extensions. 11. M. albus, 
the white hammer shell, is stouter and inhabits muddy sand. During growth it 
loses the byssus with reduction of the foot and byssal retractors and closure of 
the byssal notch. The accessory foot is not affected. The animal becomes 
anchored in the substrate exclusively by the anterior and posterior extensions 
of the shell. 12. Description of the typically rounded Isognomon ephippium leads 
to that of the elongated I. isognomon which occupies precisely the same habitat 
as M. regula. 13. It lacks the pallial retractors, promyal chamber and accessory 
foot of Malleus, the nacreous region is more extended distally and the ligament 
is multivincular (the formation of which is discussed), producing some 
posterior, but never any anterior, extension of the hinge line. 14. A remarkably 
dense mixed bed of M. regula and I. isognomon in Darvel Bay, Sabah (Borneo), is 
described. Different spawning periods, by preventing competition during 
settlement, may account for this complete intermixing of sympatric species, 
which, however, are generalized herbivores where numbers are not limited by food 
supply. 15. From a basic epifaunal habit (Pteria, Isognomon, M. regula), members 
of the Pteriacea have become adapted for infaunal life within sponges (Vulsella, 
Crenatula) or within soft substrates ( M. malleus, M. alba and the Pinnidae). 
16. There is final discussion about elongation in monomyarians, i.e., in the 
genus Malleus and in I. isognomon.

DOI: 10.2307/1539789
PMID: 28368764


403. Health Policy Plan. 2017 Sep 1;32(7):956-968. doi: 10.1093/heapol/czw182.

Cost-effectiveness of an HPV self-collection campaign in Uganda: comparing 
models for delivery of cervical cancer screening in a low-income setting.

Campos NG(1), Tsu V(2), Jeronimo J(2), Njama-Meya D(3), Mvundura M(4), Kim 
JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Decision Science, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public 
Health, 718 Huntington Avenue, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)PATH, Reproductive Health Global Program, P.O. Box 900922, Seattle, WA, USA.
(3)PATH Uganda, P.O. Box 7404, Kampala, Uganda.
(4)PATH, Devices and Tools Program, P.O. Box 900922, Seattle, WA, USA.

Erratum in
    Health Policy Plan. 2017 Dec 1;32(10):1491.

With the availability of a low-cost HPV DNA test that can be administered by 
either a healthcare provider or a woman herself, programme planners require 
information on the costs and cost-effectiveness of implementing cervical cancer 
screening programmes in low-resource settings under different models of 
healthcare delivery. Using data from the START-UP demonstration project and a 
micro-costing approach, we estimated the health and economic impact of 
once-in-a-lifetime HPV self-collection campaign relative to clinic-based 
provider-collection of HPV specimens in Uganda. We used an individual-based 
Monte Carlo simulation model of the natural history of HPV and cervical cancer 
to estimate lifetime health and economic outcomes associated with screening with 
HPV DNA testing once in a lifetime (clinic-based provider-collection vs a 
self-collection campaign). Test performance and cost data were obtained from the 
START-UP demonstration project using a micro-costing approach. Model outcomes 
included lifetime risk of cervical cancer, total lifetime costs (in 2011 
international dollars [I$]), and life expectancy. Cost-effectiveness ratios were 
expressed using incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). When both 
strategies achieved 75% population coverage, ICERs were below Uganda's per 
capita GDP (self-collection: I$80 per year of life saved [YLS]; 
provider-collection: I$120 per YLS). When the self-collection campaign achieved 
coverage gains of 15-20%, it was more effective than provider-collection, and 
had a lower ICER unless coverage with both strategies was 50% or less. Findings 
were sensitive to cryotherapy compliance among screen-positive women and 
relative HPV test performance. The primary limitation of this analysis is that 
self-collection costs are based on a hypothetical campaign but are based on unit 
costs from Uganda. Once-in-a-lifetime screening with HPV self-collection may be 
very cost-effective and reduce cervical cancer risk by > 20% if coverage is 
high. Demonstration projects will be needed to confirm the validity of our 
logistical, costing and compliance assumptions.

© The Author 2017. Published by Oxford University Press in association with The 
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/czw182
PMCID: PMC5886074
PMID: 28369405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Nucleic Acids Res. 2017 Jun 2;45(10):5838-5849. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkx189.

Telomere associated primase Tap repairs truncated telomeres of Streptomyces.

Yang CC(1), Tseng SM(1), Pan HY(2), Huang CH(2), Chen CW(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Chung-Yuan Christian University, Chung-li, Taiwan.
(2)Institute of Biochemical and Biomedical Engineering, National Taipei 
University of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Life Sciences and Institute of Genome Sciences, National 
Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan.

Replication of the linear chromosomes of soil bacteria Streptomyces proceeds 
from an internal origin towards the telomeres, followed by patching of the 
resulting terminal single-strand overhangs by DNA synthesis using terminal 
proteins as the primer, which remains covalently bound to the 5΄ ends of the 
DNA. In most Streptomyces chromosomes, the end patching requires the 
single-strand overhangs, terminal protein Tpg, and terminal associated protein 
Tap. The telomere overhangs contain several palindromic sequences capable of 
forming stable hairpins. Previous in vitro deoxynucleotidylation studies 
indicated that Tap adds the Palindrome I sequence to Tpg, which is extended by a 
polymerase to fill the gap. In this study, the stringency of Palindrome I 
sequence was examined by an in vitro deoxynucleotidylation system and in vivo 
replication. Several nt in Palindrome I were identified to be critical for 
priming. While the first 3 G on the template were required for 
deoxynucleotidylation in vitro, deletions of them could be suppressed by the 
presence of dGTP. In vivo, deletions of these G were also tolerated, and the 
telomere sequence was restored in the linear plasmid DNA. Our results indicated 
that the truncated telomeres were repaired by extension synthesis by Tap on the 
foldback Palindrome I sequence.

© The Author(s) 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic 
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkx189
PMCID: PMC5449611
PMID: 28369604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2017 Jul;65(7):1591-1596. doi: 10.1111/jgs.14875. Epub
2017  Mar 30.

Age of Migration Life Expectancy with Functional Limitations and Morbidity in 
Mexican Americans.

Garcia MA(1), Valderrama-Hinds LM(1), Chiu CT(2), Mutambudzi MS(3), Chen NW(3), 
Raji M(4).

Author information:
(1)Sealy Center on Aging, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas.
(2)Institute of European and American Studies, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Preventive Medicine and Community Health, University of Texas 
Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas.
(4)Division of Geriatrics, Department of Internal Medicine, University of Texas 
Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas.

The U.S. Mexican American population enjoys longer life expectancies relative to 
other racial/ethnic groups but is disproportionately affected by chronic 
conditions and functional limitations. Studying the impact of heterogeneity in 
age, time and other characteristics of migration among older Mexican Americans 
can inform our understanding of health disparities and healthcare needs in 
later-life. This research used 20 years of data from the Hispanic Established 
Populations for the Epidemiologic Study of the Elderly to assess the proportion 
of life spent with functional limitations and one or more morbidity (according 
to age of migration and sex) in the U.S. Mexican-American population. The 
results indicate that early-life and late-life migrant women spend more years 
with Performance-Oriented Mobility Assessment limitations than U.S.-born women. 
Conversely, midlife migrant women were not statistically different from 
U.S.-born women in years spent disabled. In men, midlife migrants had longer 
life expectancies and had more disability-free years than U.S.-born men. For 
morbidity, late-life migrant women spent a significantly smaller proportion of 
their elderly years with morbidity than U.S.-born women, but late-life migrant 
men spent more years with morbidity than U.S.-born men. These findings 
illustrate that older Mexican Americans in the United States are heterogeneous 
in nativity and health outcomes. More years spent disabled or unhealthy may 
result in greater burden on family members and greater dependence on public 
resources. These findings have implications for the development of social and 
health policies to appropriately target the medical conditions and disabilities 
of older Mexican Americans entering late life.

© 2017, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2017, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.14875
PMCID: PMC5507714
PMID: 28369692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors have no 
conflicts to declare.


406. Br J Dermatol. 2017 Jul;177(1):134-140. doi: 10.1111/bjd.15510. Epub 2017
Jun  12.

The global burden of melanoma: results from the Global Burden of Disease Study 
2015.

Karimkhani C(1), Green AC(2)(3), Nijsten T(4), Weinstock MA(5)(6), Dellavalle 
RP(1)(7)(8), Naghavi M(9), Fitzmaurice C(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Colorado, Aurora, CO, U.S.A.
(2)QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(3)CRUK Manchester Institute, University of Manchester, Manchester, U.K.
(4)Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, Department of Dermatology, Erasmus University 
Medical Center Rotterdam, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(5)Center for Dermatoepidemiology, Department of Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center, Providence, RI, U.S.A.
(6)Department of Dermatology and Epidemiology, Brown University, Providence, RI, 
U.S.A.
(7)Dermatology of Epidemiology, Colorado School of Public Health, Aurora, CO, 
U.S.A.
(8)Dermatology Service, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, Eastern Colorado 
Health System, Denver, CO, U.S.A.
(9)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, Seattle, WA, U.S.A.
(10)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, U.S.A.

Comment in
    Br J Dermatol. 2018 Feb;178(2):315-316.

BACKGROUND: Despite recent improvements in prevention, diagnosis and treatment, 
vast differences in melanoma burden still exist between populations. Comparative 
data can highlight these differences and lead to focused efforts to reduce the 
burden of melanoma.
OBJECTIVES: To assess global, regional and national melanoma incidence, 
mortality and disability-adjusted life year (DALY) estimates from the Global 
Burden of Disease Study 2015.
METHODS: Vital registration system and cancer registry data were used for 
melanoma mortality modelling. Incidence and prevalence were estimated using 
separately modelled mortality-to-incidence ratios. Total prevalence was divided 
into four disease phases and multiplied by disability weights to generate years 
lived with disability (YLDs). Deaths in each age group were multiplied by the 
reference life expectancy to generate years of life lost (YLLs). YLDs and YLLs 
were added to estimate DALYs.
RESULTS: The five world regions with the greatest melanoma incidence, DALY and 
mortality rates were Australasia, North America, Eastern Europe, Western Europe 
and Central Europe. With the exception of regions in sub-Saharan Africa, DALY 
and mortality rates were greater in men than in women. DALY rate by age was 
highest in those aged 75-79 years, 70-74 years and ≥ 80 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The greatest burden from melanoma falls on Australasian, North 
American, European, elderly and male populations, which is consistent with 
previous investigations. These substantial disparities in melanoma burden 
worldwide highlight the need for aggressive prevention efforts. The Global 
Burden of Disease Study results can help shape melanoma research and public 
policy.

© 2017 The Authors. British Journal of Dermatology published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd on behalf of British Association of Dermatologists.

DOI: 10.1111/bjd.15510
PMCID: PMC5575560
PMID: 28369739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. J Med Primatol. 2017 Jun;46(3):93-100. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12261. Epub 2017 Apr
3.

Hepatocellular carcinoma with intracranial metastasis in a Japanese macaque 
(Macaca fuscata).

Miyabe-Nishiwaki T(1), Hirata A(2), Kaneko A(1), Ishigami A(1), Miyamoto Y(1), 
Yamanaka A(1), Owaki K(3), Sakai H(3), Yanai T(3), Suzuki J(1).

Author information:
(1)Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, Aichi, Japan.
(2)Division of Animal Experiment, Life Science Research Center, Gifu University, 
Gifu, Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Veterinary Pathology, Department of Veterinary Medicine, 
Faculty of Applied Biological Sciences, Gifu University, Gifu, Japan.

BACKGROUND: A 23-year-old male Japanese macaque (Macaca fuscata) showed left 
ptosis, which progressed to exophthalmos.
METHODS: The macaque underwent a clinical examination, CT and MRI, and was 
euthanized. Necropsy and histopathological examination were performed after 
euthanasia.
RESULTS: The CT revealed and MRI confirmed an intracranial mass at the skull 
base with orbital extension. At necropsy, there were a large hepatic mass and an 
intracranial mass compressing the left temporal lobe of the brain. 
Histopathological and immunohistological examinations revealed that the masses 
were hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and a metastatic lesion. In both the primary 
and metastatic lesions, neoplastic hepatocytes were arranged mainly in a 
trabecular pattern. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were positive for 
cytokeratin (AE1/AE3 and CAM5.2) and hepatocyte paraffin 1 and negative for 
cytokeratin 7 and 20 and vimentin.
CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, this is the first case report of HCC with 
intracranial metastasis in a macaque.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12261
PMID: 28369930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. J Oral Rehabil. 2017 Jul;44(7):563-572. doi: 10.1111/joor.12511. Epub 2017
Apr  21.

Shortened dental arch and prosthetic effect on oral health-related quality of 
life: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Fueki K(1), Baba K(2).

Author information:
(1)Removable Partial Prosthodontics, Graduate School of Medical and Dental 
Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University (TMDU), Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Prosthodontics, Showa University, Tokyo, Japan.

Comment in
    J Am Dent Assoc. 2017 Aug;148(8):e122.

This systematic review aimed to compare oral health-related quality of life 
(OHRQoL) between two tooth replacement strategies - the shortened dental arch 
(SDA) concept and conventional treatment with removable partial dental 
prosthesis (RPDP) or implant-supported fixed partial dental prosthesis (IFPDP) - 
for distal extension of edentulous space in the posterior area. We retrieved 
eligible randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and non-RCTs published between 1980 
and November 2016 retrieved from MEDLINE and the Cochrane Central Register of 
Controlled Trials. The primary outcome was OHRQoL evaluated using validated 
questionnaires. Two reviewers independently screened and selected the articles, 
evaluated the risk of bias and determined the standardised weighted mean 
difference (SWMD) in OHRQoL scores between the two strategies using a random 
effects model. Two RCTs and one non-RCT involving 516 participants were included 
in this review. All studies employed the oral health impact profile (OHIP) for 
evaluation of OHRQoL. There was no statistically significant difference in OHIP 
summary scores between SDA and RPDP at 6 (SWMD = 0·24) or 12 (SWMD = 0·40) 
months post-treatment. Only one non-RCT had reported higher OHRQoL with IFPDP 
than with SDA; however, because of the small sample size, there was no 
significant difference in OHIP summary scores between the two strategies at 6 
(SWMD = -0·59) or 12 (SWMD = -0·67) months post-treatment. In terms of OHRQoL in 
partially dentate patients, the SDA concept appears to be as feasible as RPDP 
restoration. Further clinical trials are required to clarify the effect of IFPDP 
restoration on OHRQoL.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/joor.12511
PMID: 28370239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Wound Repair Regen. 2017 May;25(3):474-482. doi: 10.1111/wrr.12530. Epub
2017  May 3.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of single-use negative pressure wound therapy 
dressings (sNPWT) to reduce surgical site complications (SSC) in routine primary 
hip and knee replacements.

Nherera LM(1), Trueman P(1), Karlakki SL(2).

Author information:
(1)Smith & Nephew Advanced Wound Management, Hull, United Kingdom.
(2)Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon, Robert Jones and Agnes Hunt Orthopaedic NHS 
Hospital Foundation Trust, Gobowen, Oswestry, SY10 7AG.

We sought to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of single-use negative pressure 
wound therapy in patients undergoing primary hip and knee replacements using 
effectiveness data from a recently completed non-blinded randomized controlled 
trial. A decision analytic model was developed from UK National Health Service 
perspective using data from a single-centre trial. 220 patients were randomized 
to treatment with either single-use negative pressure wound therapy or standard 
care i.e., film dressings of clinician choice and followed for 6 weeks. Outcomes 
included dressing changes, length of stay, surgical site complications, cost and 
quality adjusted life years. The randomized controlled trial reported a 
reduction in dressing changes (p = 0.002), SSC (p = 0.06) and LOS (p = 0.07) in 
favor of single-use negative pressure wound therapy compared with standard care. 
The model estimated 0.116 and 0.115 QALY gained, 0.98 and 0.92 complications 
avoided for single-use negative pressure wound therapy and standard care, 
respectively. The cost/patient was £5,602 ($7,954) and £6,713 ($9,559) for 
single-use negative pressure wound therapy and standard care respectively 
resulting in cost-saving of £1,132 ($1,607) in favor of single-use negative 
pressure wound therapy. Greater savings were observed in subgroups of higher 
risk patients with BMI ≥ 35 and ASA ≥ 3 i.e., £7,955 ($11,296) and £7,248 
($10,293), respectively. The findings were robust to a range of sensitivity 
analyses. In conclusion, single-use negative pressure wound therapy can be 
considered a cost saving intervention to reduce surgical site complications 
following primary hip and knee replacements compared with standard care. 
Providers should consider targeting therapy to those patients at elevated risk 
of surgical site complications to maximize efficiency.

© 2017 The Authors. Wound Repair and Regeneration published by Wiley 
Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of The Wound Healing Society.

DOI: 10.1111/wrr.12530
PMID: 28370637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Respirology. 2017 Aug;22(6):1102-1109. doi: 10.1111/resp.13027. Epub 2017
Mar  31.

Is bronchial thermoplasty cost-effective as treatment for problematic asthma 
patients? Singapore's perspective on a global model.

Nguyen HV(1), Bose S(2), Mital S(3), Yii ACA(4)(5), Ang SY(6), Lam SSW(7), 
Anantham D(4)(5), Finkelstein E(3), Koh MS(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Memorial University of Newfoundland, St. John's, 
Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada.
(2)Division of Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy, Harrington Heart and 
Vascular Institute, University Hospitals-Case Medical Center, Cleveland, Ohio, 
USA.
(3)Health Services and Systems Research, Duke NUS Medical School, Singapore.
(4)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Singapore General 
Hospital, Singapore.
(5)Office of Clinical, Academic and Faculty Affairs, Duke NUS Medical School, 
Singapore.
(6)Division of Nursing, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore.
(7)Health Services Research, Singhealth, Singapore.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Bronchial thermoplasty (BT) has been shown to be 
effective at reducing asthma exacerbations and improving asthma control for 
patients with severe persistent asthma but it is also expensive. Evidence on its 
cost-effectiveness is limited and inconclusive. In this study, we aim to 
evaluate the incremental cost-effectiveness of BT combined with optimized asthma 
therapy (BT-OAT) relative to OAT for difficult-to-treat and severe asthma 
patients in Singapore, and to provide a general framework for determining BT's 
cost-effectiveness in other healthcare settings.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model to estimate the costs and quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) gained with BT-OAT versus OAT from the societal and health 
system perspectives. The model was populated using Singapore-specific costs and 
transition probabilities and utilities from the literature. Sensitivity analyses 
were conducted to identify the main factors determining cost-effectiveness of 
BT-OAT.
RESULTS: BT-OAT is not cost-effective relative to OAT over a 5-year time horizon 
with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $US138 889 per QALY from 
the societal perspective and $US139 041 per QALY from the health system 
perspective. The cost-effectiveness of BT-OAT largely depends on a combination 
of the cost of the BT procedure and the cost of asthma-related hospitalizations 
and emergency department (ED) visits.
CONCLUSION: Based on established thresholds for cost-effectiveness, BT-OAT is 
not cost-effective compared with OAT in Singapore. Given its current clinical 
efficacy, BT-OAT is most likely to be cost-effective in a setting where the cost 
of BT procedure is low and costs of hospitalization and ED visits are high.

© 2017 Asian Pacific Society of Respirology.

DOI: 10.1111/resp.13027
PMID: 28370985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. IUBMB Life. 2017 May;69(5):305-314. doi: 10.1002/iub.1627. Epub 2017 Apr 3.

Ketone bodies mimic the life span extending properties of caloric restriction.

Veech RL(1), Bradshaw PC(2), Clarke K(3), Curtis W(1), Pawlosky R(1), King 
MT(1).

Author information:
(1)Lab of Metabolic Control, NIH/NIAAA, Rockville, MD, USA.
(2)East Tennessee State University College of Medicine, Johnson City, TN, USA.
(3)Dept. of Physiology, Anatomy & Genetics, Oxford, UK.

The extension of life span by caloric restriction has been studied across 
species from yeast and Caenorhabditis elegans to primates. No generally accepted 
theory has been proposed to explain these observations. Here, we propose that 
the life span extension produced by caloric restriction can be duplicated by the 
metabolic changes induced by ketosis. From nematodes to mice, extension of life 
span results from decreased signaling through the insulin/insulin-like growth 
factor receptor signaling (IIS) pathway. Decreased IIS diminishes 
phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5) triphosphate (PIP3 ) production, leading to reduced 
PI3K and AKT kinase activity and decreased forkhead box O transcription factor 
(FOXO) phosphorylation, allowing FOXO proteins to remain in the nucleus. In the 
nucleus, FOXO proteins increase the transcription of genes encoding antioxidant 
enzymes, including superoxide dismutase 2, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and 
hundreds of other genes. An effective method for combating free radical damage 
occurs through the metabolism of ketone bodies, ketosis being the characteristic 
physiological change brought about by caloric restriction from fruit flies to 
primates. A dietary ketone ester also decreases circulating glucose and insulin 
leading to decreased IIS. The ketone body, d-β-hydroxybutyrate (d-βHB), is a 
natural inhibitor of class I and IIa histone deacetylases that repress 
transcription of the FOXO3a gene. Therefore, ketosis results in transcription of 
the enzymes of the antioxidant pathways. In addition, the metabolism of ketone 
bodies results in a more negative redox potential of the NADP antioxidant 
system, which is a terminal destructor of oxygen free radicals. Addition of 
d-βHB to cultures of C. elegans extends life span. We hypothesize that 
increasing the levels of ketone bodies will also extend the life span of humans 
and that calorie restriction extends life span at least in part through 
increasing the levels of ketone bodies. An exogenous ketone ester provides a new 
tool for mimicking the effects of caloric restriction that can be used in future 
research. The ability to power mitochondria in aged individuals that have 
limited ability to oxidize glucose metabolites due to pyruvate dehydrogenase 
inhibition suggests new lines of research for preventative measures and 
treatments for aging and aging-related disorders. © 2017 The Authors IUBMB Life 
published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of International Union of 
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, 69(5):305-314, 2017.

© 2017 The Authors IUBMB Life published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of 
International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/iub.1627
PMID: 28371201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. J Thromb Haemost. 2017 Jun;15(6):1132-1141. doi: 10.1111/jth.13687. Epub
2017  May 3.

A decision model to estimate a risk threshold for venous thromboembolism 
prophylaxis in hospitalized medical patients.

Le P(1), Martinez KA(1), Pappas MA(1), Rothberg MB(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Value-based Care Research, Medicine Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, OH, USA.

Essentials Low risk patients don't require venous thromboembolism (VTE) 
prophylaxis; low risk is unquantified. We used a Markov model to estimate the 
risk threshold for VTE prophylaxis in medical inpatients. Prophylaxis was 
cost-effective for an average medical patient with a VTE risk of ≥ 1.0%. VTE 
prophylaxis can be personalized based on patient risk and age/life expectancy.
SUMMARY: Background Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a common preventable 
condition in medical inpatients. Thromboprophylaxis is recommended for 
inpatients who are not at low risk of VTE, but no specific risk threshold for 
prophylaxis has been defined. Objective To determine a threshold for prophylaxis 
based on risk of VTE. Patients/Methods We constructed a decision model with a 
decision-tree following patients for 3 months after hospitalization, and a 
lifetime Markov model with 3-month cycles. The model tracked symptomatic deep 
vein thromboses and pulmonary emboli, bleeding events and heparin-induced 
thrombocytopenia. Long-term complications included recurrent VTE, 
post-thrombotic syndrome and pulmonary hypertension. For the base case, we 
considered medical inpatients aged 66 years, having a life expectancy of 13.5 
years, VTE risk of 1.4% and bleeding risk of 2.7%. Patients received enoxaparin 
40 mg day-1 for prophylaxis. Results Assuming a willingness-to-pay (WTP) 
threshold of $100 000/ quality-adjusted life year (QALY), prophylaxis was 
indicated for an average medical inpatient with a VTE risk of ≥ 1.0% up to 3 
months after hospitalization. For the average patient, prophylaxis was not 
indicated when the bleeding risk was > 8.1%, the patient's age was > 73.4 years 
or the cost of enoxaparin exceeded $60/dose. If VTE risk was < 0.26% or bleeding 
risk was > 19%, the risks of prophylaxis outweighed benefits. The prophylaxis 
threshold was relatively insensitive to low-molecular-weight heparin cost and 
bleeding risk, but very sensitive to patient age and life expectancy. 
Conclusions The decision to offer prophylaxis should be personalized based on 
patient VTE risk, age and life expectancy. At a WTP of $100 000/QALY, 
prophylaxis is not warranted for most patients with a 3-month VTE risk below 
1.0%.

© 2017 International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis.

DOI: 10.1111/jth.13687
PMCID: PMC5712445
PMID: 28371250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure of Conflict of Interests The authors 
state that they have no conflict of interest.


413. Acta Ophthalmol. 2017 Dec;95(8):e783-e791. doi: 10.1111/aos.13430. Epub 2017
Mar  30.

Visual and health outcomes, measured with the activity inventory and the EQ-5D, 
in visual impairment.

Macedo AF(1)(2), Ramos PL(2), Hernandez-Moreno L(2), Cima J(3), Baptista AMG(2), 
Marques AP(3), Massof R(4), Santana R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Optometry, Linnaeus University, Kalmar, Sweden.
(2)Vision Rehabilitation Lab, Centre/Department of Physics and Optometry, 
University of Minho, Braga, Portugal.
(3)Centro de Investigação em Saúde Pública, Escola Nacional de Saúde Pública, 
Universidade NOVA de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal.
(4)Johns Hopkins Wilmer Eye Institute, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

PURPOSE: Generic instruments to assess health utilities can be used to express 
the burden of health problems in widely used indexes. That is in contrast with 
what can be obtained with condition-specific instruments, outcomes are very 
specific and difficult to compare across conditions. The purpose of this study 
was to assess health and visual outcomes and its determinants in patients with 
visual impairment (VI) using the EQ-5D-3L and the Activity Inventory (AI).
METHODS: Participants were recruited in different hospitals during the 
PCVIP-study. A total of 134 patients with acuity 0.30 logMAR or less in the 
better eye were interviewed. The AI includes 46 goals split between three 
objectives: social functioning, recreation and daily living, and was used to 
measure visual ability. The EQ-5D consists of five questions covering one domain 
each and was used to provide a measure of health states. Responses to each 
domain were combined to produce a single individual index.
RESULTS: The AI and the EQ-5D-3L showed enough discriminatory power between VI 
levels (p < 0.001), and their results were strongly correlated r(134) = 0.825, 
(p < 0.001). Explanatory factors for visual ability were level of VI in better 
eye, age and gender, R2  = 0.43, (p < 0.001). Explanatory factors for the 
EQ-5D-3L were level of VI in the better eye, comorbidities and gender, R2 
 = 0.36, (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Our results showed that the EQ-5D-3L is useful when characterizing 
the burden of VI and to compute, when necessary, quality-adjusted-life-years 
(QALY) changes due to VI. However, it is important to consider that the EQ-5D-3L 
uses a coarse response scale, assesses a limited spectrum of domains and is 
influenced by comorbidities. This might limit its responsiveness to small 
changes in visual ability.

© 2017 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.13430
PMID: 28371261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Soc Sci Med. 2017 May;181:74-82. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2017.03.054. Epub
2017  Mar 28.

Is foreign direct investment good for health in low and middle income countries? 
An instrumental variable approach.

Burns DK(1), Jones AP(2), Goryakin Y(3), Suhrcke M(4).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Group, Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, 
Norwich, NR47TJ, UK. Electronic address: DBurns@bresmed.com.
(2)Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, Norwich, NR47TJ, UK.
(3)Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Paris, France.
(4)Health Economics Group, Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, 
Norwich, NR47TJ, UK; Centre for Health Economics, University of York, 
Heslington, York, YO105DD, UK.

There is a scarcity of quantitative research into the effect of FDI on 
population health in low and middle income countries (LMICs). This paper 
investigates the relationship using annual panel data from 85 LMICs between 1974 
and 2012. When controlling for time trends, country fixed effects, correlation 
between repeated observations, relevant covariates, and endogeneity via a novel 
instrumental variable approach, we find FDI to have a beneficial effect on 
overall health, proxied by life expectancy. When investigating age-specific 
mortality rates, we find a stronger beneficial effect of FDI on adult mortality, 
yet no association with either infant or child mortality. Notably, FDI effects 
on health remain undetected in all models which do not control for endogeneity. 
Exploring the effect of sector-specific FDI on health in LMICs, we provide 
preliminary evidence of a weak inverse association between secondary (i.e. 
manufacturing) sector FDI and overall life expectancy. Our results thus suggest 
that FDI has provided an overall benefit to population health in LMICs, 
particularly in adults, yet investments into the secondary sector could be 
harmful to health.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2017.03.054
PMID: 28371630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. J Alzheimers Dis. 2017;59(2):393-403. doi: 10.3233/JAD-161194.

Epidemiological Approaches to Understanding the Link Between Type 2 Diabetes and 
Dementia.

Sutherland GT(1), Lim J(1), Srikanth V(2), Bruce DG(3).

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Pathology, Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia.
(2)Medicine, Peninsula Clinical School, Central Clinical School, Frankston 
Hospital, Peninsula Health, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(3)School of Medicine & Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, Crawley, 
WA, Australia.

Diabetes and dementia are two diseases that increased dramatically in most 
societies in direct proportion to increases in average life expectancy. The two 
conditions are strongly associated and there is much hope that understanding 
this association will unlock the enigma that is the pathogenesis of dementia. 
Previous studies suggest that type 2 diabetes is a risk factor for all-cause 
dementia, vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease. However these estimates may 
not necessarily have taken into account the overlap in dementia pathologies or 
the competing risk of death. Although the link between diabetes and vascular 
disease is intuitive, it is now becoming clear that type 2 diabetes is also 
associated with reduced brain volumes and with progression of brain atrophy, 
apparently independent of its relation with cerebrovascular disease. This raises 
the possibility that type 2 diabetes may also contribute to neurodegeneration, 
and particularly tau pathology. Prospective studies that record extensive 
multimodal in-vivo biomarkers and conduct rigorous postmortem neuropathological 
examination are certainly required to tease apart these complex pathways. 
However monitoring cognitive outcomes from current observational studies and 
randomized clinical trials of new diabetes treatments could be equally valuable 
in reducing the dementia epidemic.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-161194
PMID: 28372332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. J Telemed Telecare. 2018 May;24(4):282-289. doi: 10.1177/1357633X17696586.
Epub  2017 Apr 3.

Economic evaluation of telephone-based concussion management for combat-related 
mild traumatic brain injury.

Richardson JS(1), Guzauskas GF(2), Fann JR(3)(4), Temkin NR(5)(6), Bush NE(7), 
Bell KR(8), Gahm GA(7), Smolenski DJ(7), Brockway JA(4), Hansen RN(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Health Management and Policy, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, MI, USA.
(2)2 Department of Pharmacy, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(3)3 Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(4)4 Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, 
WA, USA.
(5)5 Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, 
USA.
(6)6 Department of Biostatistics, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(7)7 National Center for Telehealth and Technology, Joint Base Lewis-McChord, 
WA, USA.
(8)8 Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University of Texas 
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA.

Introduction Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) is an unfortunately common 
repercussion of military service in a combat zone. The CONTACT study tested an 
individualized telephone support intervention employing problem solving therapy 
(PST) for mTBI in soldiers recently returned from deployment. We sought to 
determine the cost effectiveness of this intervention from a military healthcare 
system perspective. Methods We conducted an intent-to-treat post-hoc analysis by 
building a decision analytic model that evaluated the choice between using PST 
or education only (EO). The model included cost-minimization and 
cost-effectiveness analyses. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) 
were calculated as the differences in costs of PST versus EO relative to the 
differences in the outcomes of participants. Results The PST intervention 
resulted in an annual per-enrolee cost of $1027 (95% CI: $836 to $1248), while 
EO costs were $32 (95% CI: $25 to $39), resulting in a net incremental cost of 
$996 per enrolee (95% CI: $806 to $1,217). The ICERs were $68,658/QALY based on 
EQ-5D (95% CI: -$463,535 to $596,661) and $49,284/QALY based on SF-6D (95% CI: 
$26,971 to $159,309). Estimates of treatment costs in a real-world setting were 
accompanied by substantially lower ICERs that are within accepted thresholds for 
willingness-to-pay. Discussion Although the intervention had short-term benefits 
sufficient to yield acceptable ICERs, there was no long-term effect of PST over 
EO observed in the study. Consequently, we suggest that future studies examine 
the use of low-cost approaches, such as booster relapse-prevention calls, that 
may lead to a sustained treatment benefit for this population.

DOI: 10.1177/1357633X17696586
PMID: 28372513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Rev Esp Cir Ortop Traumatol. 2017 May-Jun;61(3):176-184. doi: 
10.1016/j.recot.2017.02.003. Epub 2017 Apr 2.

The limited anterior approach of the elbow for open reduction and internal 
fixation of capitellum fractures. Surgical technique and clinical experience in 
2 cases with more than 2 years follow-up.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Ballesteros-Betancourt JR(1), Fernández-Valencia JA(2), García-Tarriño R(2), 
Domingo-Trepat A(2), Sastre-Solsona S(2), Combalia-Aleu A(2), Llusá-Pérez M(2).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirugía Ortopédica y Traumatología, Hospital Clínico de 
Barcelona, Barcelona, España; Departamento Anatomía Humana y Embriología, 
Facultad de Medicina. Universidad de Barcelona, Barcelona, España. Electronic 
address: jrballes@clinic.ub.es.
(2)Servicio de Cirugía Ortopédica y Traumatología, Hospital Clínico de 
Barcelona, Barcelona, España.

OBJECTIVE: Fractures involving the capitellum can be treated surgically by 
excision of the fragment, or by reduction and internal fixation with screws, 
with or without heads. The lateral Kocher approach is the most common approach 
for open reduction. We believe that the limited anterior approach of the elbow, 
could be a valid technique for treating these fractures, as it does not involve 
the detachment of any muscle group or ligament, facilitating the recovery 
process.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: A description is presented of the surgical technique, as 
well as of 2cases with a Bryan-Morrey type 1 fracture (Dubberley type 1A). Two 
different final quality of life evaluation questionnaires were completed by 
telephone: the EuroQol Five Dimensions Questionnaire (EQ-5D), and the patient 
part of the Liverpool Elbow Score (PAQ-LES) questionnaire.
RESULTS: The 2patients showed favourable clinical progress at 36 and 24 months, 
respectively, with an extension/flexion movement arc of -5°/145° and -10°/145°, 
as well as a pronosupination of 85°/80° and 90°/90°. The 2patients showed 
radiological consolidation with no signs of osteonecrosis. The EQ-5D score was 
0.857 and 0.910 (range: 0.36-1), and a PAQ-SLE of 35 and 35 (range: 17-36), 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: We believe that the limited anterior approach of the elbow is a 
technical option to consider for the open surgical treatment of a capitellum 
fracture, although further studies are needed to demonstrate its superiority and 
clinical safety compared to the classical lateral Kocher approach.

Copyright © 2017 SECOT. Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.recot.2017.02.003
PMID: 28373087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Mol Cell Biol. 2017 Jun 15;37(13):e00562-16. doi: 10.1128/MCB.00562-16.
Print  2017 Jul 1.

Caloric Restriction Extends Yeast Chronological Life Span by Optimizing the Snf1 
(AMPK) Signaling Pathway.

Wierman MB(1), Maqani N(1), Strickler E(1), Li M(1)(2), Smith JS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, University of Virginia 
School of Medicine, Charlottesville, Virginia, USA.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Jilin Medical University, Jilin, China.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, University of Virginia 
School of Medicine, Charlottesville, Virginia, USA jss5y@virginia.edu.

AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and the homologous yeast SNF1 complex are 
key regulators of energy metabolism that counteract nutrient deficiency and ATP 
depletion by phosphorylating multiple enzymes and transcription factors that 
maintain energetic homeostasis. AMPK/SNF1 also promotes longevity in several 
model organisms, including yeast. Here we investigate the role of yeast SNF1 in 
mediating the extension of chronological life span (CLS) by caloric restriction 
(CR). We find that SNF1 activity is required throughout the transition of log 
phase to stationary phase (diauxic shift) for effective CLS extension. CR 
expands the period of maximal SNF1 activation beyond the diauxic shift, as 
indicated by Sak1-dependent T210 phosphorylation of the Snf1 catalytic 
α-subunit. A concomitant increase in ADP is consistent with SNF1 activation by 
ADP in vivo Downstream of SNF1, the Cat8 and Adr1 transcription factors are 
required for full CR-induced CLS extension, implicating an alternative carbon 
source utilization for acetyl coenzyme A (acetyl-CoA) production and 
gluconeogenesis. Indeed, CR increased acetyl-CoA levels during the diauxic 
shift, along with expression of both acetyl-CoA synthetase genes ACS1 and ACS2 
We conclude that CR maximizes Snf1 activity throughout and beyond the diauxic 
shift, thus optimizing the coordination of nucleocytosolic acetyl-CoA production 
with massive reorganization of the transcriptome and respiratory metabolism.

Copyright © 2017 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/MCB.00562-16
PMCID: PMC5472825
PMID: 28373292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Anticancer Res. 2017 Apr;37(4):1609-1615. doi: 10.21873/anticanres.11491.

Self-efficacy for Coping Moderates the Effects of Distress on Quality of Life in 
Palliative Cancer Care.

Chirico A(1), Serpentini S(2)(3), Merluzzi T(4), Mallia L(5), Del Bianco P(2), 
Martino R(2), Trentin L(2), Bucci E(6)(7), DE Laurentiis M(8), Capovilla E(2), 
Lucidi F(1), Botti G(8), Giordano A(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental and Social Psychology,"La Sapienza" University of 
Rome, Rome, Italy.
(2)Veneto Institute of Oncology IOV, IRCCS, Padua, Italy.
(3)Azienda ULSS 3, Bassano d. G. (VI), Bassano del Grappa, Italy.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, U.S.A.
(5)Department of Movement, Human and Health Sciences, University of Sports "Foro 
Italico", Rome, Italy.
(6)Temple University, Philadelphia, PA, U.S.A.
(7)Sbarro Health Research Organization, Philadelphia, PA, U.S.A.
(8)Istituto Nazionale Tumori "G.Pascale" IRCCS, Naples, Italy.
(9)Sbarro Health Research Organization, Philadelphia, PA, U.S.A. 
president@shro.org.
(10)Department of Medicine, Surgery and Neuroscience, University of Siena, 
Siena, Italy.

Recent aggressive chemotherapeutic and combined treatments have resulted in 
increased survivorship for advanced stage breast cancer. In some patients, 
treatment produces an actual abatement of their cancer, while in others 
treatment mitigates the progression of cancer bringing those patients into 
palliative care where their chronic disease requires continuous management. 
There is also evidence that the majority of palliative-care cancer patients have 
a deteriorating quality of life that only precipitously declines in the final 
few weeks of life. The new paradigm of patient-centered care for palliative 
patients is resulting in a new model of treatment in which the self-efficacy 
seems to play an important role. The present study represents an extension of 
the role of self-efficacy for coping to palliative care. Using a stress-coping 
model, the primary aim of this study was to evaluate a process model, in which 
self-efficacy for coping with cancer is a moderator between stress and the 
quality of life in a sample of breast cancer patients in palliative care. The 
secondary aim was to validate a specific domain coping self-efficacy scale, the 
Cancer Behavior Inventory. The current study confirmed the role of self-efficacy 
for coping with cancer as moderator of the relationship between stress and 
quality of life of a sample of breast cancer patients in palliative care. In 
addition, this study confirmed the structure, reliability and validity of the 
scale.

Copyright© 2017, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. 
Delinasios), All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21873/anticanres.11491
PMID: 28373421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Anticancer Res. 2017 Apr;37(4):1859-1863. doi: 10.21873/anticanres.11522.

Chemoembolization with Drug-eluting Microspheres Loaded with Doxorubicin for the 
Treatment of Cholangiocarcinoma.

Aliberti C(1), Carandina R(1), Sarti D(2), Pizzirani E(1), Ramondo G(1), 
Mulazzani L(3), Mattioli GM(3), Fiorentini G(4).

Author information:
(1)Oncology Radiodiagnostics, Oncology Institute of Veneto, Institute for the 
Research and Treatment of Cancer (IRCC), Padua, Italy.
(2)Oncology Unit, Agency Reunited Hospital of North Marche, Pesaro, Italy.
(3)Diagnostics for Images Unit and Interventional Radiology, Agency Reunited 
Hospital of North Marche, Pesaro, Italy.
(4)Oncology Unit, Agency Reunited Hospital of North Marche, Pesaro, Italy 
giammaria.fiorentini@ospedalimarchenord.it.

AIM: To report clinical outcomes of transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) using 
drug-eluting beads (DEBs) loaded with doxorubicin for the treatment of 
unresectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (CCA).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We treated 127 patients with doxorubicin via TACE. 
Inclusion criteria were: diagnosis of unresectable CCA; indication for TACE, 
performance status (PS) 0-2, >3 months of life expectancy, >18 years old, 
written consent. TACE was performed using DEBs for 109 (86%) patients and 
polythylene glycol drug-elutable microspheres (PEG) loaded with doxorubicin for 
18 (14%) patients.
RESULTS: Tumor response of the whole sample of 127 patients was partial response 
(PR) in 19 (15%) patients, stable disease (SD) in 101 (80%) and progressive 
disease (PD) in seven (5%) 3 months after therapy, with no complete responses. 
There were differences between type of embolics: PR was 7% and 77%, SD was 88% 
and 8%, and PD was 5% and 15%, and the disease control rate was 95% and 85% in 
the DEB and PEG groups, respectively. Most frequent side-effects were: abdominal 
pain, fever, nausea, and transaminase rise.
CONCLUSION: TACE was effective and safe for CCA treatment, with a high disease 
control rate. The best response of PEG-TACE was PR, whereas it was SD for 
DEB-TACE.

Copyright© 2017, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. 
Delinasios), All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21873/anticanres.11522
PMID: 28373452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2017 Aug;15(4):437-440. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-017-0323-0.

We Propose a Novel Measure for Social Welfare and Public Health: 
Capability-Adjusted Life-Years, CALYs.

Månsdotter A(1), Ekman B(2), Feldman I(3)(4), Hagberg L(5), Hurtig AK(6), 
Lindholm L(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, Karolinska Institutet, 171 77, 
Stockholm, Sweden. anna.mansdotter@ki.se.
(2)Medical Faculty, Lund University, Box 117, 221 00, Lund, Sweden.
(3)Department of Women's and Children's Health, Uppsala University, Box 256, 751 
05, Uppsala, Sweden.
(4)Department of Public Health and Care Science, Uppsala University, Box 256, 
751 05, Uppsala, Sweden.
(5)Health Care Research Center, Faculty of Medicine and Health, Örebro 
University, 701 85, Örebro, Sweden.
(6)Unit of Epidemiology and Global Health, Umeå University, 901 87, Umeå, 
Sweden.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-017-0323-0
PMID: 28374165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Macromol Biosci. 2017 Aug;17(8). doi: 10.1002/mabi.201700033. Epub 2017 Apr
4.

