(GBD 2013). The burden of disease attributable to HAP was quantified by the 
comparative risk assessment method using four inputs: (1) exposure to HAP, (2) 
the theoretical minimum risk exposure level (TMREL), (3) exposure-response 
relationships of related causes (4) disease burden of related causes. All across 
the country, solid fuel use decreased from 5.26% in 1990 to 0.15% in 2013. The 
drastic reduction of solid fuel use leaded to DALYs attributable to HAP fell by 
97.8% (95% uncertainty interval 97.7-98.0%) from 87,433 (51072-144303) in 1990 
to 1889 (1016-3247) in 2013. Proportion of YLLs in DALYs from HAP decreased from 
95.7% in 1990 to 86.6% in 2013. Contribution of causes in the attributable DALYs 
was variable during the study period and in 2013 was in the following order: 
ischemic heart disease for 43.4%, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease for 
24.7%, hemorrhagic stroke for 9.7%, lower respiratory infections for 9.3%, 
ischemic stroke for 7.8%, lung cancer for 3.4% and cataract for 1.8%. Based on 
the Gini coefficient, the spatial inequality of the disease burden from HAP 
increased during the study period. The remained burden of disease was relatively 
scarce and it mainly occurred in seven southern provinces. Further reduction of 
the disease burden from HAP as well as compensation of the increasing spatial 
inequality in Iran could be attained through an especial plan for providing 
cleaner fuels in the southern provinces.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2017.03.026
PMID: 28340488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Curr Res Transl Med. 2017 Jan-Mar;65(1):44-47. doi: 
10.1016/j.retram.2016.08.004. Epub 2016 Nov 3.

Comments on the history of medical-biological studies of aging, the birth of 
scientific gerontology.

Robert L(1), Labat-Robert J(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Paris, Paris, France. Electronic address: lrobert5@orange.fr.
(2)University of Paris, Paris, France.

Recent books (Immunity. How Elie Metchnikoff changed the course of modern 
medicine and Expectations of Life) reviewed the important contribution of 
Metchnikoff to the emergence of gerontology as a new branch of biomedical 
sciences. Here, we insist on Metchnikoff's contribution and pivotal role in the 
emergence of nutrition as a science and its importance for health and longevity. 
The discovery of phagocytosis by Metchnikoff and of its evolutionary ancestry 
are at the origin of the emergence of cellular immunity as an independent 
science besides humoral immunity. The longevity of Metchnikoff (71years) at a 
time when average life expectancy of men did hardly pass 50years certainly 
contributed to the acceptance of his teachings. The recent increase of the 
senior population in most advanced countries is a good opportunity to review the 
contributions of nutrition to longevity.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.retram.2016.08.004
PMID: 28340696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Transplant Proc. 2017 Apr;49(3):501-504. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2017.02.001.

Incidence, Management, and Risk Factors for Lower Gastrointestinal Bleeding in 
Renal Transplant Recipients.

Rencuzogullari A(1), Binboga S(1), Aytac E(1), Rabets J(2), Stocchi L(1), Ozuner 
G(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Digestive Disease Institute, Cleveland 
Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, United States.
(2)Transplant Center, Glickman Urological and Kidney Institute, Cleveland 
Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, United States.
(3)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Digestive Disease Institute, Cleveland 
Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, United States. Electronic address: ozunerg@ccf.org.

BACKGROUND: There are limited convincing data regarding management and outcomes 
of lower gastrointestinal bleeding (LGB) in renal transplant recipients (RTR). 
The aim of this study was to evaluate incidence, management strategies, and risk 
factors associated with LGB in RTR.
METHODS: Between January 2004 and December 2013, RTR with LGB were analyzed. LGB 
was defined as having clinical evidence of hemorrhage after upper 
gastrointestinal etiology was ruled out.
RESULTS: There were 1578 RTR with a mean age of 50 ± 14 years at the time of 
transplantation. Mean follow-up time after transplantation was 57 ± 45 months. 
Forty-five (2.9%) patients had a documented site of LGB. The most common causes 
of bleeding were colitis and angiodysplasia (n = 17). Mean time to LGB after 
transplantation was 43 ± 36 months. Twelve patients with LGB required 
intervention. Three underwent colectomy, endoscopic treatment was utilized in 8, 
and 1 patient had angiographic embolization to control bleeding. Recurrent LGB 
developed in 11 patients of 42 patients who did not have surgery at the time of 
index bleeding. Surgical (n = 1) or endoscopic intervention (n = 4) was required 
in 5 of recurrent bleeders. LGB was more commonly seen in RTRs who had 
development of a nonfunctioning kidney (P < .0001). RTR who had an LGB had an 
increased overall mortality rate (not directly related to the bleeding episode) 
compared with those who did not have a LGB (P = .001). We did not observe any 
increased risk of LGB bleeding among patients who were receiving anticoagulant 
or anti-aggregant treatment agents (P = .76).
CONCLUSIONS: Nonfunctioning kidney after transplant is a risk factor for LGB. 
Overall mortality rates increased after LGB in RTR. Strategies aiming to prolong 
transplanted kidney function may reduce the incidence of LGB and improve life 
expectancy in RTR.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2017.02.001
PMID: 28340821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Can J Cardiol. 2017 Mar;33(3):366-377. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2016.07.512. Epub
 2016 Jul 26.

Diabetes for Cardiologists: Practical Issues in Diagnosis and Management.

Mancini GB(1), Cheng AY(2), Connelly K(3), Fitchett D(3), Goldenberg R(4), 
Goodman SG(3), Leiter LA(5), Lonn E(6), Paty B(7), Poirier P(8), Stone J(9), 
Thompson D(7), Yale JF(10).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada. Electronic address: mancini@mail.ubc.ca.
(2)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(3)Division of Cardiology, Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute and Keenan Research 
Centre for Biomedical Science, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Endocrinology and Metabolism, North York General Hospital and LMC Diabetes & 
Endocrinology, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute and 
Keenan Research Centre for Biomedical Science, University of Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(6)Population Health Research Institute and Department of Medicine, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(7)Division of Endocrinology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.
(8)Heart and Lung Institute, Laval University, Québec City, Québec, Canada.
(9)Department of Cardiac Sciences, Libin Cardiovascular Institute of Alberta, 
Cumming School of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(10)Division of Endocrinology, McGill University Health Centre, McGill 
University, Montreal, Québec, Canada.

Diabetes mellitus (DM), a chronic metabolic disease characterized by 
hyperglycemia, is a profound cardiovascular (CV) risk factor. It compounds the 
effects of all other risk factors, leads to premature micro- and macrovascular 
disease, facilitates development of heart failure, worsens the clinical course 
of all CV diseases, and shortens life expectancy. Established DM, unrecognized 
DM, and dysglycemia that may progress to DM are all commonly present at the time 
of presentation of overt CV disease. Thus, CV specialists and trainees 
frequently treat patients with dysglycemia. The traditional and proven role of 
cardiologists in reducing the risk of macrovascular events in this population is 
through aggressive lipid and blood pressure treatment. However, a more proactive 
role in the detection and management of DM is likely to become increasingly 
important as the prevalence continues to increase and therapies continue to 
improve. The latter include antihyperglycemic therapies with proven 
cardiovascular safety profiles and CV event reduction properties not yet fully 
elucidated and not necessarily related to glycemic control. Accordingly, the 
purpose of this article is to (1) expand the interest of cardiologists in 
earlier stages of the natural history of DM, when prevention or early detection 
might help achieve greatest benefit; (2) highlight principles of optimal 
glycemic management, with an emphasis on add-on choices showing promising 
reduction of CV events and lacking CV adverse effects; and (3) encourage 
cardiologists to become proactive partners in the multidisciplinary care needed 
to ensure optimal lifelong vascular health in patients with, or who are at risk 
of, DM.

Copyright © 2016 Canadian Cardiovascular Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cjca.2016.07.512
PMID: 28340996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Curr Probl Diagn Radiol. 2017 Nov-Dec;46(6):441-451. doi: 
10.1067/j.cpradiol.2017.01.006. Epub 2017 Jan 18.

Imaging of Intracranial and Orbital Complications of Sinusitis and Atypical 
Sinus Infection: What the Radiologist Needs to Know.

Velayudhan V(1), Chaudhry ZA(2), Smoker WRK(3), Shinder R(4), Reede DL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, State University of New York Downstate Medical 
Center, Kings County Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY. Electronic address: 
Vin.Velayudhan@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Radiology, State University of New York Downstate Medical 
Center, Kings County Hospital Center, Brooklyn, NY.
(3)Department of Radiology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, 
IA.
(4)Department of Opthalmology, State University of New York Downstate Medical 
Center, Brooklyn, NY.

Sinusitis is a common disease. Complications, however, are less common and can 
be life threatening. Major complications occur from extension of disease into 
the orbit and intracranial compartment and often require emergent treatment with 
intravenous (IV) antibiotics or operative intervention. Immunocompromised 
patients with acute sinusitis are susceptible to atypical infections, such as 
invasive fungal sinusitis, which is a surgical emergency. Therefore, it is 
important to accurately and promptly identify potentional complications of acute 
sinusitis to ensure appropriate treatment and minimize negative outcomes. This 
article reviews the imaging features of a spectrum of complications associated 
with acute sinusitis and atypical infections.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1067/j.cpradiol.2017.01.006
PMID: 28341385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. J Investig Med. 2017 Jun;65(5):912-918. doi: 10.1136/jim-2016-000297. Epub
2017  Mar 24.

Non-cardiac surgery in patients with continuous-flow left ventricular assist 
devices: a single institutional experience.

Chen CW(1), Dumon KR(1), Shaked O(2), Acker MA(3), Atluri P(3), Dempsey DT(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastrointestinal Surgery, Department of Surgery, Perelman School 
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Department of Surgery, University of California San Francisco School of 
Medicine, San Francisco, California, USA.
(3)Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Perelman School of 
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

With improvements in life expectancy for patients with continuous-flow left 
ventricular assist devices (LVADs), non-cardiac surgeons will increasingly 
encounter surgical problems in this population. 209 patients underwent LVAD 
placement between 10/1/2007 and 6/1/2015 at a single institution. Survival was 
compared between patients who had non-cardiac surgery (NCS) during the initial 
LVAD implantation hospitalization (n=36) and those who had NCS only in 
subsequent hospitalizations (n=33). Postoperative complication rates were 
examined. Index admission NCS was associated with lower 5-year survival compared 
with subsequent admission NCS (27.1% vs 39.4%, p=0.017). In subsequent 
admissions, the risks of bleeding and infectious complications were the same for 
elective or urgent NCS, but the risk of death was higher in the urgent surgery 
group. We conclude that elective NCS can be performed with low risk of death or 
LVAD dysfunction after sufficient recovery of patients from LVAD implantation.

Copyright © 2017 American Federation for Medical Research.

DOI: 10.1136/jim-2016-000297
PMID: 28341625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


326. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2017 Aug;15(4):501-512. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-017-0321-2.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Obinutuzumab for Previously Untreated Chronic 
Lymphocytic Leukaemia in Portuguese Patients who are Unsuitable for Full-Dose 
Fludarabine-Based Therapy.

Paquete AT(1), Miguel LS(2), Becker U(3), Pereira C(4), Pinto CG(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)CISEP - Research Centre on the Portuguese Economy, ISEG, Universidade de 
Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal. ana.paquete@medicina.ulisboa.pt.
(2)CISEP - Research Centre on the Portuguese Economy, ISEG, Universidade de 
Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal.
(3)F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Basel, Switzerland.
(4)Roche Farmacêutica Química, Lda., Lisbon, Portugal.
(5)ISEG - Lisbon School of Economics and Management, Universidade de Lisboa, 
Lisbon, Portugal.

BACKGROUND: Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) mostly affects patients with 
comorbidities and limited therapeutic options. Obinutuzumab in combination with 
chlorambucil (GClb) is a new therapeutic option for previously untreated CLL 
patients who are unsuitable for full-dose fludarabine-based therapy. This 
combination delays disease progression but incurs additional costs; thus, an 
assessment of its value for money is relevant.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the incremental cost-utility ratio of GClb in comparison 
with (i) rituximab in combination with chlorambucil (RClb), and (ii) 
chlorambucil alone (Clb) from the perspective of the Portuguese National Health 
Service (NHS).
METHODS: A Markov model was used to predict disease progression. Pre-progression 
clinical data were based on the latest CLL11 trial data, and post-progression 
clinical data were obtained from CLL5 trial data. Utility values are from Kosmas 
et al. (Leuk Lymphoma 56:1320-1326, 14). Only direct medical costs were 
included. The resource consumption was estimated by a panel of Portuguese 
experts, and the unit costs were obtained from official sources. A discount rate 
of 5% was applied to costs and consequences.
RESULTS: GClb and RClb were associated with an increase of 1.06 and 0.39 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) at an additional cost of €21,720 and €9836 
when compared to Clb, respectively. The cost-utility ratio of GClb versus Clb 
was €20,397/QALY, while RClb was extendedly dominated.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of GClb for previously untreated CLL patients who are 
unsuitable for full-dose fludarabine-based therapy incurs an incremental cost 
per QALY that is generally accepted in Portugal. Therefore, although there is 
some uncertainty, obinutuzumab is probably a cost-effective therapy in the 
Portuguese setting.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-017-0321-2
PMID: 28342061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Pharmacoeconomics. 2017 Sep;35(9):909-919. doi: 10.1007/s40273-017-0497-1.

Crizotinib for Untreated Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase-Positive Non-Small-Cell Lung 
Cancer: An Evidence Review Group Perspective of a NICE Single Technology 
Appraisal.

Morgan P(1), Woolacott N(2), Biswas M(2), Mebrahtu T(2), Harden M(2), Hodgson 
R(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination (CRD), University of York, York, YO10 
5DD, UK. philip.morgan@york.ac.uk.
(2)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination (CRD), University of York, York, YO10 
5DD, UK.

As part of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) single 
technology appraisal process, the manufacturer of crizotinib submitted evidence 
on the clinical and cost effectiveness of crizotinib in untreated anaplastic 
lymphoma kinase-positive (ALK-positive) non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). 
Crizotinib has previously been assessed by NICE for patients with previously 
treated ALK-positive NSCLC (TA 296). It was not approved in this previous 
appraisal, but had been made available through the cancer drugs fund. As part of 
this new appraisal, the company included a price discount patient access scheme 
(PAS). The Centre for Reviews and Dissemination and Centre for Health Economics 
Technology Appraisal Group at the University of York was commissioned to act as 
the independent Evidence Review Group (ERG). This article provides a description 
of the company's submission and the ERG's review and summarises the resulting 
NICE guidance issued in August 2016. The main clinical-effectiveness data were 
derived from a multicentre randomised controlled trial-PROFILE 1014-that 
compared crizotinib with pemetrexed chemotherapy in combination with carboplatin 
or cisplatin in patients with untreated non-squamous ALK-positive NSCLC. In the 
trial, crizotinib demonstrated improvements in progression-free survival (PFS) 
and overall survival (OS). The company's economic model was a three-state 'area 
under the curve' Markov model. The base-case incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) was estimated to be greater than £50,000 per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained (excluding the PAS discount). The ERG assessment of the 
evidence submitted by the company raised a number of concerns. In terms of the 
clinical evidence, the OS benefit was highly uncertain due to the cross-over 
permitted in the trial and the immaturity of the data; only 26% of events had 
occurred by the data cut-off point. In the economic modelling, the most 
significant concerns related to the analysis of OS and assumptions made 
regarding the duration of therapy. The ERG exploratory re-analysis of the OS 
data relaxed the assumption of proportional hazards made in the company 
submission, which demonstrated significant uncertainty regarding the OS gains 
from crizotinib. The ERG reconfigured the economic model so that duration of 
therapy was based on the area under the curve analysis of the PROFILE 1014 
trial, dramatically increasing the cost associated with implementing crizotinib 
and consequently, substantially increasing the ICER. At the first appraisal 
meeting, the NICE Appraisal Committee concluded that crizotinib, while 
clinically effective, was not sufficiently cost effective for use in the UK NHS. 
Following the consultation, the company offered a revised PAS and conducted 
extensive re-analysis, resulting in a revised base-case ICER of £47,291 per QALY 
gained. The NICE Appraisal Committee concluded that crizotinib was likely to be 
a cost-effective use of NHS resources, despite the uncertainty that persisted 
around a number of factors, namely the long-term survival benefit of crizotinib. 
Crizotinib was therefore recommended as an option for untreated ALK-positive 
advanced NSCLC in adults.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-017-0497-1
PMID: 28342113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Eur J Health Econ. 2018 Apr;19(3):327-340. doi: 10.1007/s10198-017-0886-6.
Epub  2017 Mar 25.

Economic and public health consequences of delayed access to medical care for 
migrants living with HIV in France.

Guillon M(1), Celse M(2), Geoffard PY(3).

Author information:
(1)Université Clermont Auvergne, CNRS, CERDI and Paris School of Economics, 
63-65 Boulevard François Mitterrand, 63000, Clermont-Ferrand, France. 
marlene.guillon@uca.fr.
(2)Conseil National du Sida-French National AIDS Council, 39-43 Quai André 
Citroën, 75902, Paris Cedex 15, France.
(3)Paris School of Economics, 48 Boulevard Jourdan, 75014, Paris, France.

In 2013, migrants accounted for 46% of newly diagnosed cases of HIV (human 
immunodeficiency virus) infection in France. These populations meet with 
specific obstacles leading to late diagnosis and access to medical care. Delayed 
access to care (ATC) for HIV-infected migrants reduces their life expectancy and 
quality of life. Given the reduction of infectivity under antiretroviral (ARV) 
treatment, delayed ATC for HIV-infected migrants may also hinder the control of 
the HIV epidemic. The objective of this study is to measure the public health 
and economic consequences of delayed ATC for migrants living with HIV in France. 
Using a healthcare payer perspective, our model compares the lifetime averted 
infections and costs of early vs. late ATC for migrants living with HIV in 
France. Early and late ATC are defined by an entry into care with a CD4 cell 
count of 350 and 100/mm3, respectively. Our results show that an early ATC is 
dominant, even in the worst-case scenario. In the most favorable scenario, early 
ATC generates an average net saving of €198,000 per patient, and prevents 0.542 
secondary infection. In the worst-case scenario, early ATC generates an average 
net saving of €32,000 per patient, and prevents 0.299 secondary infection. These 
results are robust to various adverse changes in key parameters and to a 
definition of late ATC as an access to care at a CD4 level of 200/mm3. In 
addition to individual health benefits, improving ATC for migrants living with 
HIV proves efficient in terms of public health and economics. These results 
stress the benefit of ensuring early ATC for all individuals living with HIV in 
France.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-017-0886-6
PMID: 28343331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. World Neurosurg. 2017 Jun;102:507-517. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2017.03.061. Epub
 2017 Mar 23.

Stereotactic Radiosurgery for ARUBA (A Randomized Trial of Unruptured Brain 
Arteriovenous Malformations)-Eligible Spetzler-Martin Grade I and II 
Arteriovenous Malformations: A Multicenter Study.

Ding D(1), Starke RM(2), Kano H(3), Mathieu D(4), Huang PP(5), Kondziolka D(5), 
Feliciano C(6), Rodriguez-Mercado R(6), Almodovar L(6), Grills IS(7), Silva 
D(8), Abbassy M(8), Missios S(8), Barnett GH(8), Lunsford LD(3), Sheehan JP(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, 
Virginia, USA.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery and Radiology, University of Miami, Miami, 
Florida, USA.
(3)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(4)Division of Neurosurgery, Department of Neurosurgery, University of 
Sherbrooke, Centre de recherché du CHUS, Sherbrooke, Quebec, Canada.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, New York University, Langone Medical Center, New 
York, New York, USA.
(6)Section of Neurosurgery, Department of Surgery, University of Puerto Rico, 
San Juan, Puerto Rico, USA.
(7)Radiation Oncology, Beaumont Health System, Royal Oak, Michigan, USA.
(8)Department of Neurosurgery, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio, 
USA.
(9)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, 
Virginia, USA. Electronic address: jps2f@virginia.edu.

OBJECTIVE: ARUBA (A Randomized Trial of Unruptured Brain Arteriovenous 
Malformations) found better short-term outcomes after conservative management 
compared with intervention for unruptured arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). 
However, because Spetzler-Martin (SM) grade I-II AVMs have the lowest treatment 
morbidity, sufficient follow-up of these lesions may show a long-term benefit 
from intervention. The aim of this multicenter, retrospective cohort study is to 
assess the outcomes after stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) for ARUBA-eligible SM 
grade I-II AVMs.
METHODS: We pooled SRS data for patients with AVM from 7 institutions and 
selected ARUBA-eligible SM grade I-II AVMs with ≥12 months follow-up for 
analysis. Favorable outcome was defined as AVM obliteration, no post-SRS 
hemorrhage, and no permanently symptomatic radiation-induced changes.
RESULTS: The ARUBA-eligible SM grade I-II AVM cohort comprised 232 patients 
(mean age, 42 years). The mean nidus volume, SRS margin dose, and follow-up 
duration were 2.1 cm3, 22.5 Gy, and 90.5 months, respectively. The actuarial 
obliteration rates at 5 and 10 years were 72% and 87%, respectively; annual 
post-SRS hemorrhage rate was 1.0%; symptomatic and permanent radiation-induced 
changes occurred in 8% and 1%, respectively; and favorable outcome was achieved 
in 76%. Favorable outcome was significantly more likely in patients treated with 
a margin dose >20 Gy (83%) versus ≤20 Gy (62%; P < 0.001). Stroke or death 
occurred in 10% after SRS.
CONCLUSIONS: For ARUBA-eligible SM grade I-II AVMs, long-term SRS outcomes 
compare favorably with the natural history. SRS should be considered for adult 
patients harboring unruptured, previously untreated low-grade AVMs with a 
minimum life expectancy of a decade.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2017.03.061
PMID: 28344176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Acta Myol. 2016 Oct;35(2):96-99.

Family context in muscular dystrophies: psychosocial aspects and social 
integration.

Magliano L(1), Politano L(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Campania University "Luigi Vanvitelli", Caserta, 
Italy.
(2)Cardiomyology and Medical Genetics, Department of Experimental Medicine, 
Campania University "Luigi Vanvitelli", Naples, Italy.

Muscular dystrophies (MDs) are degenerative diseases which may led to marked 
functional impairment and reduced life expectancy. Being caregivers of a loved 
one with MD may be both a rewarding and a demanding experience that may have 
relevant impact on the quality of life of the whole family. In this short review 
we summarize the main findings of the first survey on family context in MD in 
Italy. The study was carried out on 502 key-relatives of patients suffering from 
Duchenne, Becker, or Limb-Girdle MD, aged between 4 and 25 years, and attending 
one of 8 participating Centers, all over 2012. The results revealed that 
practical difficulties were mainly related to relatives' involvement in helping 
the patient in moving and in relative's constraints of leisure activities. 
Furthermore, feelings of loss and perception of patient's condition as having 
negative effects on the family life were the psychological consequences more 
frequently complained. However, despite the difficulties, 88% of the 
key-relatives acknowledged the caregiving as a positive experience. In fact 94% 
of the respondents stated they could rely on friends in case of own physical 
illness, and 88% in case of psychological stress. Burden was found higher among 
relatives of patients with lower functional autonomy and longer duration of 
illness, and among relatives with lower professional and social support. 
Conversely, the positive aspects of the caregiving were more frequently 
acknowledged by those who received higher level of professional help and 
psychological social support. These results reveal that the caregiving 
experience has a positive impact on key-relatives quality of life despite the 
practical demands, and that the support of professionals is essential to help 
families in identifying the benefits of this experience without denying its 
difficulties.

PMCID: PMC5343746
PMID: 28344439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Front Pharmacol. 2017 Mar 10;8:117. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2017.00117.
eCollection  2017.

The Immunomodulatory Effects of Plant Extracts and Plant Secondary Metabolites 
on Chronic Neuroinflammation and Cognitive Aging: A Mechanistic and Empirical 
Review.

Kure C(1), Timmer J(1), Stough C(1).

Author information:
(1)Swinburne Centre for Human Psychopharmacology, Swinburne University Hawthorn, 
VIC, Australia.

Advances in healthcare have considerably improved the life expectancy of the 
human population over the last century and this has brought about new 
challenges. As we live longer the capacity for cognitive aging increases. 
Consequently, it has been noted that decline in cognitive performance in the 
elderly in domains of reasoning, problem solving skills, attention, processing 
speed, working memory and episodic memory is a significant societal problem. 
Despite the enormity of this issue there are relatively few interventions for 
cognitive aging. This may be due to our current state of knowledge on biological 
factors that underpin cognitive aging. One of the biological contributors to 
cognitive aging is chronic neuroinflammation. This review will provide an 
overview of the peripheral and central mechanisms involved in chronic 
neuroinflammation and how neuroinflammation may be related to age-associated 
cognitive decline. Plant based extracts including herbal and nutritional 
supplements with anti-inflammatory properties will be examined in relation to 
their utility in treating age-related cognitive decline. Plant based extracts in 
particular offer interesting pharmacological properties that may be quickly 
utilized to prevent cognitive aging.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2017.00117
PMCID: PMC5344987
PMID: 28344556


332. Ther Adv Neurol Disord. 2017 Mar;10(3):171-187. doi:
10.1177/1756285616681280.  Epub 2016 Dec 1.

Levodopa-carbidopa enteral suspension in advanced Parkinson's disease: clinical 
evidence and experience.

Virhammar J(1), Nyholm D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Neurology, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Neurology, Uppsala University Hospital, 751 85 
Uppsala, Sweden.

The duration of action of oral levodopa becomes shorter as Parkinson's disease 
(PD) progresses. Patients with advanced PD may develop potentially disabling 
motor fluctuations and abnormal involuntary movement (dyskinesia), which cannot 
be managed with optimized oral or transdermal PD medications. The progressively 
worsening symptoms can have a substantial impact on the patient quality of life 
(QoL). Levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel (LCIG) is delivered continuously via a 
percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy with a jejunal extension (PEG-J). LCIG is 
licensed for the treatment of levodopa-responsive advanced PD in individuals 
experiencing severe motor fluctuations and dyskinesia when available 
combinations of antiparkinsonian medications have not given satisfactory 
results. Initial evidence for the efficacy and tolerability of LCIG came from a 
number of small-scale studies, but recently, three prospective studies have 
provided higher quality evidence. A 12-week double-blind comparison of LCIG with 
standard levodopa therapy, a 52-week open-label study extension of the 
double-blind study, and a 54-week open-label safety study, demonstrated 
significant improvements in 'off' time and 'on' time without troublesome 
dyskinesia, and QoL measures that were maintained in the longer term. There are 
also observations that LCIG may be effective treatment for nonmotor symptoms 
(NMS) although the evidence is limited. There is a need for further research on 
the efficacy of LCIG in reducing NMS, dyskinesia and improving QoL. This review 
surveys the clinical evidence for the effectiveness and tolerability of LCIG in 
the management of advanced PD and highlights some practical considerations to 
help optimize treatment.

DOI: 10.1177/1756285616681280
PMCID: PMC5349373
PMID: 28344656

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: Johan Virhammar has 
received an educational lectures honoraria from Medtronic, receives remuneration 
from the website internetmedicin.se and has been supported with a research grant 
from Selanders Foundation. Dag Nyholm has received lecture fees from AbbVie; has 
received research support from AbbVie and has, until 2012, received compensation 
from AbbVie for serving as a consultant; has received royalties from Liber AB; 
has served as a consultant to Sensidose AB and OrbiMed Advisors LLC; has 
received honoraria from H. Lundbeck AB, Movement Disorders Society, NordicInfu 
Care and The National Board of Health and Welfare; NordicInfu Care; Ipsen, 
Selanders Foundation, Swedish Knowledge Foundation, Swedish PD Foundation, 
Swedish Research Council and VINNOVA Sweden’s innovation agency; is cofounder 
and stock owner in Jemardator AB; receives remuneration from the website 
netdoktor.se for participation in an expert panel; and received institutional 
support from Uppsala University Hospital.


333. Eur J Heart Fail. 2017 Jun;19(6):718-727. doi: 10.1002/ejhf.809. Epub 2017
Mar  27.

New medicinal products for chronic heart failure: advances in clinical trial 
design and efficacy assessment.

Cowie MR(1), Filippatos GS(2), Alonso Garcia MLA(1)(3), Anker SD(4)(5), 
Baczynska A(6), Bloomfield DM(7), Borentain M(8), Bruins Slot K(9), Cronin 
M(10), Doevendans PA(11)(12), El-Gazayerly A(13), Gimpelewicz C(14), Honarpour 
N(15), Janmohamed S(16), Janssen H(6), Kim AM(17), Lautsch D(7), Laws I(18), 
Lefkowitz M(19), Lopez-Sendon J(20), Lyon AR(1), Malik FI(21), McMurray JJV(22), 
Metra M(23), Figueroa Perez S(24), Pfeffer MA(25), Pocock SJ(26), Ponikowski 
P(27), Prasad K(28), Richard-Lordereau I(29), Roessig L(24), Rosano GMC(30)(31), 
Sherman W(32), Stough WG(33), Swedberg K(1)(34), Tyl B(35), Zannad F(36), 
Boulton C(14), De Graeff P(13)(37).

Author information:
(1)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London and Royal Brompton 
Hospital, Sydney Street, London, SW3 6HP, UK.
(2)National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, School of Medicine, Athens 
University Hospital Attikon, Athens, Greece.
(3)Scientific Advice Working Party European Medicines Agency, Medical Assessor 
Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), London, UK.
(4)Innovative Clinical Trials, Department of Cardiology and Pneumology, 
University Medical Centre Göttingen (UMG), Göttingen, Germany.
(5)Division of Homeostasis Research, Dept of Cardiology, Charité Campus CVK, 
Berlin, Germany.
(6)European Medicines Agency, London, UK.
(7)Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, NJ, USA.
(8)Bristol-Myers Squibb, Rueil-Malmaison, France.
(9)Norwegian Medicines Agency, Oslo, Norway.
(10)Vifor Pharma, Zurich, Switzerland.
(11)European Medicines Agency Committee for Advanced Therapy, London, UK.
(12)UMC, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(13)Dutch Medicines Evaluation Board (CBG-MEB), Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(14)Novartis Pharmaceuticals, Basel, Switzerland.
(15)Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, CA, USA.
(16)GlaxoSmithKline, Stockley Park, UK.
(17)Pfizer, Inc., Cambridge, MA, USA.
(18)GlaxoSmithKline, London, UK.
(19)Novartis Pharmaceuticals, East Hanover, New Jersey, United States.
(20)Cardiology Department, Hospital Universitario La Paz; IdiPaz, CIBER-CV, 
Madrid, Spain.
(21)Cytokinetics, South San Francisco, CA, USA.
(22)BHF Cardiovascular Research Centre, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, 
Scotland, UK.
(23)Cardiology, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.
(24)Bayer Pharma AG, Wuppertal, Germany.
(25)Cardiovascular Division, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA.
(26)Department of Medical Statistics, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London, UK.
(27)Department of Heart Diseases, Medical University, Military Hospital, 
Wroclaw, Poland.
(28)United Kingdom Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, London, 
UK.
(29)Bristol-Myers Squibb, Paris, France.
(30)IRCCS San Raffaele Hospital Roma, Rome, Italy.
(31)Cardiovascular Clinical Academic Group, St George's Hospitals NHS Trust, 
University of London, London, UK.
(32)Celyad, Mont Saint Guibert, Belgium.
(33)Campbell University College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, Cary, NC, USA.
(34)Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(35)Servier International, Paris, France.
(36)INSERM, Centre d'Investigation Clinique 1433 and Unité 1116, Université de 
Lorraine and CHU, Nancy, France.
(37)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmacology, University of Groningen, 
University Medical Centre Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.

Despite the availability of a number of different classes of therapeutic agents 
with proven efficacy in heart failure, the clinical course of heart failure 
patients is characterized by a reduction in life expectancy, a progressive 
decline in health-related quality of life and functional status, as well as a 
high risk of hospitalization. New approaches are needed to address the unmet 
medical needs of this patient population. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) is 
undertaking a revision of its Guideline on Clinical Investigation of Medicinal 
Products for the Treatment of Chronic Heart Failure. The draft version of the 
Guideline was released for public consultation in January 2016. The 
Cardiovascular Round Table of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC), in 
partnership with the Heart Failure Association of the ESC, convened a dedicated 
two-day workshop to discuss three main topic areas of major interest in the 
field and addressed in this draft EMA guideline: (i) assessment of efficacy 
(i.e. endpoint selection and statistical analysis); (ii) clinical trial design 
(i.e. issues pertaining to patient population, optimal medical therapy, run-in 
period); and (iii) research approaches for testing novel therapeutic principles 
(i.e. cell therapy). This paper summarizes the key outputs from the workshop, 
reviews areas of expert consensus, and identifies gaps that require further 
research or discussion. Collaboration between regulators, industry, clinical 
trialists, cardiologists, health technology assessment bodies, payers, and 
patient organizations is critical to address the ongoing challenge of heart 
failure and to ensure the development and market access of new therapeutics in a 
scientifically robust, practical and safe way.

© 2017 The Authors. European Journal of Heart Failure © 2017 European Society of 
Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1002/ejhf.809
PMID: 28345190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Muscle Nerve. 2018 Jan;57(1):70-76. doi: 10.1002/mus.25652. Epub 2017 Apr
15.

Resistance training and aerobic training improve muscle strength and aerobic 
capacity in chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy.

Markvardsen LH(1), Overgaard K(2), Heje K(3), Sindrup SH(4), Christiansen I(3), 
Vissing J(3), Andersen H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Aarhus University Hospital, Noerrebrogade 44, 
DK-8000, Aarhus C, Aarhus, Denmark.
(2)Section for Sport Science, Department of Public Health, Aarhus University, 
Aarhus, Denmark.
(3)Department of Neurology, Copenhagen Neuromuscular Center, Rigshospitalet, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Department of Neurology, Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark.

INTRODUCTION: We investigated the effects of aerobic and resistance exercise in 
patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP).
METHODS: Eighteen CIDP patients treated with subcutaneous immunoglobulin 
performed 12 weeks of aerobic exercise and 12 weeks of resistance exercise after 
a run-in period of 12 weeks without exercise. Three times weekly the 
participants performed aerobic exercise on an ergometer bike or resistance 
exercise with unilateral training of knee and elbow flexion/extension. Primary 
outcomes were maximal oxygen consumption velocity (VO2 -max) and maximal 
combined isokinetic muscle strength (cIKS) of knee and elbow flexion/extension.
RESULTS: VO2 -max and muscle strength were unchanged during run-in (-4.9% ± 
10.3%, P = 0.80 and -3.7% ± 10.1%, P = 0.17, respectively). Aerobic exercise 
increased VO2 -max by 11.0% ± 14.7% (P = 0.02). Resistance exercise resulted in 
an increase of 13.8% ± 16.0% (P = 0.0004) in cIKS.
DISCUSSION: Aerobic exercise training and resistance exercise training improve 
fitness and strength in CIDP patients. Muscle Nerve 57: 70-76, 2018.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mus.25652
PMID: 28345260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Haemophilia. 2017 May;23(3):e170-e179. doi: 10.1111/hae.13215. Epub 2017 Mar
26.

Target plasma factor levels for personalized treatment in haemophilia: a Delphi 
consensus statement.

Iorio A(1)(2), Iserman E(1), Blanchette V(3), Dolan G(4), Escuriola 
Ettingshausen C(5), Hermans C(6), Negrier C(7), Oldenburg J(8), Reininger A(9), 
Rodriguez-Merchan C(10), Spannagl M(11), Valentino LA(12), Young G(13), 
Steinitz-Trost KN(9), Gringeri A(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Hematology/Oncology, Hospital for Sick 
Children, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(4)Guy's and St Thomas' Hospital, London, UK.
(5)Haemophilia Centre Rhine Main - HZRM, Moerfelden-Walldorf, Germany.
(6)Haemostasis and Thrombosis Unit, Division of Haematology, Cliniques 
universitaires Saint-Luc, Brussels, Belgium.
(7)Division of Haematology, Louis Pradel Cardiology hospital, University Claude 
Bernard Lyon1, Lyon, France.
(8)University Clinic Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(9)Global Medical Affairs Hematology, Baxalta Innovations GmbH, Vienna, Austria.
(10)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, La Paz University Hospital, Madrid, 
Spain.
(11)Department of Transfusion Medicine and Hemostasis, University Hospital 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(12)Rush University and Baxalta, US, Inc., Deerfield, IL, USA.
(13)Children's Hospital Los Angeles, University of Southern California Keck 
School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Prophylactic replacement with factor concentrate is the optimal 
treatment for persons with severe haemophilia to avoid or minimize bleeding. 
This ultimately prevents or reduces joint disease and improves life expectancy 
and quality of life towards values matching those in the normal population. 
However, uncertainty still exists around the optimal regimens to be prescribed 
for prophylaxis. An increasing number of treating physicians and patients are 
showing interest in patient-tailored approaches to prophylaxis, which aim to 
harmonize the prophylaxis regimen with the patients' bleeding phenotype, levels 
of physical activity and a variety of other variables.
METHODS: A modified Delphi technique was adopted to generate consensus. The 
expert panel met in person to set the objectives, be trained on the Delphi 
technique and agree on the desired level of consensus. Three iterations were 
used to identify the targets, the scenarios and their combinations.
RESULTS: Twenty-eight scenarios and eight target levels were identified and used 
to issue recommendations. The panel reached the desired level of consensus on 
positive or negative recommendations. Areas where consensus was not reached were 
identified and proposed as areas for future research. Prospective assessment of 
the validity of most of the proposed targets is recommended.
CONCLUSIONS: We have generated, by expert consensus, target plasma levels of 
factor concentrate to be used to tailor treatment for persons with haemophilia.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hae.13215
PMID: 28345268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Health Econ. 2017 Dec;26(12):e219-e235. doi: 10.1002/hec.3495. Epub 2017 Mar
27.

Population health and the economy: Mortality and the Great Recession in Europe.

Tapia Granados JA(1), Ionides EL(2).

Author information:
(1)Politics, Drexel University, Philadelphia, USA.
(2)Statistics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.

We analyze the evolution of mortality-based health indicators in 27 European 
countries before and after the start of the Great Recession. We find that in the 
countries where the crisis has been particularly severe, mortality reductions in 
2007-2010 were considerably bigger than in 2004-2007. Panel models adjusted for 
space-invariant and time-invariant factors show that an increase of 1 percentage 
point in the national unemployment rate is associated with a reduction of 0.5% 
(p < .001) in the rate of age-adjusted mortality. The pattern of mortality 
oscillating procyclically is found for total and sex-specific mortality, 
cause-specific mortality due to major causes of death, and mortality for ages 
30-44 and 75 and over, but not for ages 0-14. Suicides appear increasing when 
the economy decelerates-countercyclically-but the evidence is weak. Results are 
robust to using different weights in the regression, applying nonlinear methods 
for detrending, expanding the sample, and using as business cycle indicator 
gross domestic product per capita or employment-to-population ratios rather than 
the unemployment rate. We conclude that in the European experience of the past 
20 years, recessions, on average, have beneficial short-term effects on 
mortality of the adult population.

Copyright © 2017 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.3495
PMID: 28345272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Sci Rep. 2017 Mar 27;7:45054. doi: 10.1038/srep45054.

Environmental DNA in subterranean biology: range extension and taxonomic 
implications for Proteus.

Gorički Š(1), Stanković D(1)(2)(3), Snoj A(2), Kuntner M(4), Jeffery WR(5), 
Trontelj P(6), Pavićević M(7), Grizelj Z(8), Năpăruş-Aljančič M(1)(9), Aljančič 
G(1).

Author information:
(1)Society for Cave Biology, Tular Cave Laboratory, Oldhamska cesta 8a, 4000 
Kranj, Slovenia.
(2)Department of Animal Sciences, Biotechnical Faculty, University of Ljubljana, 
Groblje 3, 1230 Domžale, Slovenia.
(3)Department of Life Sciences, University of Trieste, Via Licio Giorgieri 5, 
Trieste 34127, Italy.
(4)Institute of Biology, Scientific Research Centre, Slovenian Academy of 
Sciences and Arts, Novi trg 2, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(5)Department of Biology, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742, USA.
(6)Department of Biology, Biotechnical Faculty, University of Ljubljana, Večna 
pot 111, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(7)Biospeleological Society of Montenegro, Cara Lazarja 22, 81000 Podgorica, 
Montenegro.
(8)Scientific Research Society Versus, Vitina bb, 88326 Vitina, Bosnia and 
Herzegovina.
(9)University of Bucharest Research Institute, ICUB, Transdisciplinary Research 
Centre Landscape - Territory - Information Systems, CeLTIS, 91-93, Splaiul 
Independentei, 050095 Bucharest, Romania.

Europe's obligate cave-dwelling amphibian Proteus anguinus inhabits subterranean 
waters of the north-western Balkan Peninsula. Because only fragments of its 
habitat are accessible to humans, this endangered salamander's exact 
distribution has been difficult to establish. Here we introduce a quantitative 
real time polymerase chain reaction-based environmental DNA (eDNA) approach to 
detect the presence of Proteus using water samples collected from karst springs, 
wells or caves. In a survey conducted along the southern limit of its known 
range, we established a likely presence of Proteus at seven new sites, extending 
its range to Montenegro. Next, using specific molecular probes to discriminate 
the rare black morph of Proteus from the closely related white morph, we 
detected its eDNA at five new sites, thus more than doubling the known number of 
sites. In one of these we found both black and white Proteus eDNA together. This 
finding suggests that the two morphs may live in contact with each other in the 
same body of groundwater and that they may be reproductively isolated species. 
Our results show that the eDNA approach is suitable and efficient in addressing 
questions in biogeography, evolution, taxonomy and conservation of the cryptic 
subterranean fauna.

DOI: 10.1038/srep45054
PMCID: PMC5366867
PMID: 28345609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interests.


338. Nat Cell Biol. 2017 Apr;19(4):375-383. doi: 10.1038/ncb3497. Epub 2017 Mar
27.

Basolateral protrusion and apical contraction cooperatively drive Drosophila 
germ-band extension.

Sun Z(1), Amourda C(1), Shagirov M(1), Hara Y(1), Saunders TE(1)(2)(3), Toyama 
Y(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Mechanobiology Institute, National University of Singapore, T-Lab, 
5A Engineering Drive 1, Singapore 117411, Singapore.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, National University of Singapore, 
14 Science Drive 4, Singapore 117543, Singapore.
(3)Institute for Molecular and Cell Biology, Agency for Science Technology and 
Research, 61 Biopolis Drive, Singapore 138673, Singapore.
(4)Temasek Life Sciences Laboratory, 1 Research Link, National University of 
Singapore, Singapore 117604, Singapore.

Erratum in
    Nat Cell Biol. 2018 Mar 5;:

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2020 Jun;21(6):305.

Throughout development, tissues undergo complex morphological changes, resulting 
from cellular mechanics that evolve over time and in three-dimensional space. 
During Drosophila germ-band extension (GBE), cell intercalation is the key 
mechanism for tissue extension, and the associated apical junction remodelling 
is driven by polarized myosin-II-dependent contraction. However, the 
contribution of the basolateral cellular mechanics to GBE remains poorly 
understood. Here, we characterize how cells coordinate their shape from the 
apical to the basal side during rosette formation, a hallmark of cell 
intercalation. Basolateral rosette formation is driven by cells mostly located 
at the dorsal/ventral part of the rosette (D/V cells). These cells exhibit 
actin-rich wedge-shaped basolateral protrusions and migrate towards each other. 
Surprisingly, the formation of basolateral rosettes precedes that of the apical 
rosettes. Basolateral rosette formation is independent of apical contractility, 
but requires Rac1-dependent protrusive motility. Furthermore, we identified 
Src42A as a regulator of basolateral rosette formation. Our data show that in 
addition to apical contraction, active cell migration driven by basolateral 
protrusions plays a pivotal role in rosette formation and contributes to GBE.

DOI: 10.1038/ncb3497
PMID: 28346438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Br J Dermatol. 2017 Oct;177(4):1102-1112. doi: 10.1111/bjd.15498. Epub 2017
Sep  21.

Is universal HLA-B*15:02 screening a cost-effective option in an ethnically 
diverse population? A case study of Malaysia.

Chong HY(1), Mohamed Z(2), Tan LL(3), Wu DBC(1), Shabaruddin FH(4), Dahlui M(5), 
Apalasamy YD(2), Snyder SR(6), Williams MS(7), Hao J(6), Cavallari LH(8), 
Chaiyakunapruk N(1)(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Monash University Malaysia, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, 
Malaysia.
(3)Department of Dermatology, University Malaya Medical Center, Malaysia.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, Malaysia.
(5)Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Malaya, Malaysia.
(6)Department of Epidemiology and Health Services Research, Geisinger Health 
System, Danville, PA, U.S.A.
(7)Genomic Medicine Institute, Geisinger Health System, Danville, PA, U.S.A.
(8)Department of Pharmacotherapy and Translational Research, University of 
Florida, Gainesville, FL, U.S.A.
(9)Asian Centre for Evidence Synthesis in Population, Implementation and 
Clinical Outcomes (PICO), Health and Well-being Cluster, Global Asia in the 21st 
Century (GA21) Platform, Monash University Malaysia, Malaysia.
(10)Center of Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research (CPOR), Department of Pharmacy 
Practice, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Naresuan University, Phitsanulok, 
Thailand.
(11)School of Pharmacy, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, U.S.A.

Comment in
    Br J Dermatol. 2017 Oct;177(4):904-905.

BACKGROUND: A strong association has been documented between HLA-B*15:02 and 
carbamazepine-induced severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) in Asians. 
Human leucocyte antigen testing is potentially valuable in many countries to 
facilitate early recognition of patient susceptibility to SCARs.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the cost-effectiveness of universal HLA-B*15:02 
screening in preventing carbamazepine-induced Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic 
epidermal necrolysis in an ethnically diverse Malaysian population.
METHODS: A hybrid model of a decision tree and Markov model was developed to 
evaluate three strategies for treating newly diagnosed epilepsy among adults: 
(i) carbamazepine initiation without HLA-B*15:02 screening (current practice); 
(ii) universal HLA-B*15:02 screening prior to carbamazepine initiation; and 
(iii) alternative treatment [sodium valproate (VPA)] prescribing without 
HLA-B*15:02 screening. Base-case analysis and sensitivity analyses were 
performed over a lifetime time horizon. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
were calculated.
RESULTS: Both universal HLA-B*15:02 screening and VPA prescribing were dominated 
by current practice. Compared with current practice, universal HLA-B*15:02 
screening resulted in a loss of 0·0255 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) at an 
additional cost of 707 U.S. dollars (USD); VPA prescribing resulted in a loss of 
0·2622 QALYs at an additional cost of USD 4127, owing to estimated differences 
in antiepileptic treatment efficacy.
CONCLUSIONS: Universal HLA-B*15:02 screening is unlikely to be a cost-effective 
intervention in Malaysia. However, with the emergence of an ethnically diverse 
population in many other countries, this may render HLA-B*15:02 screening a 
viable intervention when an increasing proportion of the population is at risk 
and an equally effective yet safer antiepileptic drug is available.

© 2017 British Association of Dermatologists.

DOI: 10.1111/bjd.15498
PMCID: PMC5617756
