Comparative analysis of nutritional guidelines for vitamin D.

Bouillon R(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical and Experimental Endocrinology, Katholieke Universiteit (KU) Leuven, 
Herestraat 49 ON1 Box 902, Leuven 3000, Belgium.

Vitamin D is essential for calcium and bone homeostasis. Humans are largely 
dependent on UVB-radiation-induced photosynthesis of vitamin D, as few foods 
contain vitamin D. However, the same radiation that produces vitamin D is also 
carcinogenic, albeit with a long lag time, and causes DNA damage. In view of the 
increasing life expectancy, avoiding excessive sun exposure is prudent. Several 
groups of people have a shortfall between their requirements for vitamin D and 
their combined endogenous synthesis and intake from natural foods, and therefore 
need vitamin D supplementation. Governments and scientific societies are 
regularly updating their recommendations for intake of vitamin D, especially for 
groups that should (infants) or prefer to (especially elderly individuals) avoid 
direct sunlight. An overview of such guidelines is presented in this Review. A 
fairly large consensus exists that all infants should receive 400 international 
units (IU) (10 μg) daily during their first year of life and that elderly 
individuals should have access to vitamin D supplementation (at recommended 
dosages varying from 400 IU to 800 IU daily in most governmental guidelines but 
at higher dosages in other guidelines). All guidelines unanimously agree that 
serum levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) <25 nmol/l (10 ng/ml) should be 
avoided at all ages. Children and adults who have limited sun exposure should 
receive vitamin D supplementation, but the recommended doses vary widely (from 
200 IU to 2,000 IU daily), in line with disagreement regarding the minimal 
desirable serum concentration of 25OHD (which varies from 25 nmol/l to >100 
nmol/l).

DOI: 10.1038/nrendo.2017.31
PMID: 28387318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Nat Rev Neurol. 2017 May;13(5):258. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2017.53. Epub 2017
Apr  7.

Spinal cord injury: Insights into life expectancy after spinal cord injury.

Ridler C.

DOI: 10.1038/nrneurol.2017.53
PMID: 28387342


464. Rev Med Liege. 2017 Mar;72(3):156-161.

[Optimizing basal insulin therapy in type 2 diabetes].

[Article in French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]

Scheen AJ(1), Paquot N(2).

Author information:
(1)Service de Diabétologie, Nutrition et Maladies métaboliques et Unité de 
Pharmacologie clinique, CHU de Liège, Site Sart Tilman, Liège, Belgique.
(2)Service de Diabétologie, Nutrition et Maladies métaboliques, CHU de Liège, 
Site Sart Tilman, Liège, Belgique.

Because of the natural history of type 2 diabetes and the increasing life 
expectancy, more and more patients are treated with insulin after failure of 
oral therapy. International guidelines give the preference to basal insulin, 
most often while maintaining metformin. If this treatment does not allow to 
reach the glycaemic objectives, optimizing therapy is mandatory. This clinical 
case offers the opportunity of discussing both advantages and disadvantages of 
three therapeutic options : the shift from basal insulin to a basal-plus or a 
basal-bolus insulin regimen, the addition of another oral glucose-lowering 
agent, either a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor (gliptin) or an inhibitor of 
cotransporters sodium-glucose type 2 cotransporters (gliflozin), or the 
combination of basal insulin and a glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist.

Publisher: Compte tenu de l’histoire naturelle du diabète de type 2 et de 
l’augmentation de l’espérance de vie, un nombre croissant de patients sont 
traités par insuline après échec des antidiabétiques oraux. Les recommandations 
internationales privilégient le recours à une insuline basale, le plus souvent 
avec le maintien de la metformine. Si ce traitement ne permet pas d’atteindre 
les objectifs glycémiques, il convient d’optimiser la prise en charge. Cette 
vignette clinique permet de discuter les avantages et les inconvénients de trois 
options thérapeutiques : le passage de l’insuline basale à un schéma basal-plus 
puis basal-bolus, l’ajout d’un autre antidiabétique oral, soit un inhibiteur de 
la dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (gliptine), soit un inhibiteur des cotransporteurs 
sodium-glucose de type 2 (gliflozine) ou encore la combinaison d’une insuline 
basale avec un agoniste des récepteurs du glucagon-like peptide-1.

PMID: 28387494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Eur Heart J. 2017 Jun 14;38(23):1832-1839. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehx111.

Cost effectiveness of cascade testing for familial hypercholesterolaemia, based 
on data from familial hypercholesterolaemia services in the UK.

Kerr M(1), Pears R(2), Miedzybrodzka Z(3), Haralambos K(4), Cather M(5), Watson 
M(6), Humphries SE(7).

Author information:
(1)Economics Department, Insight Health Economics Ltd., 16 Cambrian Road, 
Richmond, Surrey TW10 6JQ, UK.
(2)Public Health Department, Hampshire County Council, Elizabeth II Court South, 
Winchester SO23 8UJ, UK.
(3)Department of Medical Genetics, University of Aberdeen, Polwarth Building, 
Foresterhill, Aberdeen AB25 2ZD, UK.
(4)Wales Heart Research Institute, Cardiff University, Heath Park, Cardiff CF14 
4XN, UK.
(5)Northern Ireland Regional Genetics Centre, Regional Genetics Laboratories, 
Belfast City Hospital, Lisburn Road, Belfast BT9 7AB, UK.
(6)Wessex Clinical Genetics Service, University Hospital Southampton NHS 
Foundation Trust, Princess Anne Hospital, Coxford Road, Southampton SO16 5YA, 
UK.
(7)Centre for Cardiovascular Genetics, Institute of Cardiovascular Science, 
University College London, 5 University Street, London WC1E 6JJ, UK.

Comment in
    Eur Heart J. 2017 Jun 14;38(23):1840-1842.

AIMS: Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) is a vastly under-diagnosed genetic 
disorder, associated with early development of coronary heart disease and 
premature mortality which can be substantially reduced by effective treatment. 
Patents have recently expired on high-intensity statins, reducing FH treatment 
costs. We build a model using UK data to estimate the cost effectiveness of DNA 
testing of relatives of those with monogenic FH.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A Markov model was used to estimate the cost effectiveness 
of cascade testing, using data from UK cascade services. The estimated 
incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) was £5806 and the net marginal 
lifetime cost per relative tested was £2781. More than 80% of lifetime costs 
were diagnosis-related and incurred in the 1st year. In UK services, 23% of 6396 
index cases were mutation-positive. For each mutation-positive index case, 1.33 
relatives were tested, resulting overall in a rate of 0.31 tested relatives per 
tested index case. If the number of relatives tested per tested index case rose 
to 3.2 (projected by National Institute for Health and Care Excellence in 2008) 
the ICER would reduce to £2280 and lifetime costs to £1092.
CONCLUSION: Cascade testing of relatives of those with suspected FH is highly 
cost effective. The current Europe-wide high levels of undiagnosed FH, and 
associated morbidity and mortality, mean adoption of cascade services should 
yield substantial quality of life and survival gains.

© The Author 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehx111
PMCID: PMC5837803
PMID: 28387827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. J Am Mosq Control Assoc. 2017 Mar;33(1):16-24. doi: 10.2987/16-6608.1.

Life Table Analysis of Culex pipiens Under Simulated Weather Conditions In 
Egypt.

Abouzied EM(1).

Author information:
(1)Zoology Department, Faculty of Science, Fayoum University, PO Box 63514, 
Tawfik El-Hakeem, Al Fayoum Province, Egypt.

The effect of fluctuating ambient air and water temperatures and relative 
humidity (RH) on the population parameters of Culex pipiens was studied using 
life table data during the winter-spring and summer-autumn seasons in Giza 
Province, Egypt. In winter-spring (20.46 ± 1.8°C and 51.68 ± 3.63% RH), the 
preadult survival rate for Cx. pipiens was 80.65%, which was higher than the 
50.00% observed in the summer-autumn (30.19 ± 0.67°C and 52.68 ± 8.04% RH). 
During the winter-spring period, the developmental time of egg, larvae, and 
pupae of Cx. pipiens was 3.52, 12.69, and 5.92 days, respectively. There was a 
significantly shorter developmental period for summer-autumn (1.0, 8.59, and 
2.04 days, respectively). Both female and male adults survived longer during 
winter-spring (61.83 days for female and 42.62 days for male adults) than during 
summer-autumn (24.38 days for female and 20.83 days for male adults). The 
fecundity (F) of female Cx. pipiens (524.7 eggs/female) and the net reproductive 
rate (R0) (245.4 offspring) were significantly higher during winter-spring 
seasons than in the summer-autumn (163.3 eggs/female and 38.10 offspring). 
Despite the higher F and R0 values in winter-spring, the intrinsic rate of 
increase (rm = 0.1181/day) and the finite rate of increase (λ = 1.1253/day) of 
the Cx. pipiens population were significantly lower compared to summer-autumn 
(rm = 0.1648/day; λ = 1.1792/day). Consequently, the mean generation time during 
winter-spring was significantly longer (46.6 days) than during summer-autumn 
(22.09 days). The data suggest that Cx. pipiens is an r-strategist.

DOI: 10.2987/16-6608.1
PMID: 28388321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2017 Jun;53(6):802-809. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2017.02.024. Epub 2017 Apr 4.

Five Year Natural History of Screening Detected Sub-Aneurysms and Abdominal 
Aortic Aneurysms in 70 Year Old Women and Systematic Review of Repair Rate in 
Women.

Söderberg P(1), Wanhainen A(2), Svensjö S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Sciences, Section of Vascular Surgery, Uppsala 
University, Uppsala, Sweden; Department of Surgery, Falun County Hospital, 
Falun, Sweden; Centre for Clinical Research (CKF), Dalarna, Sweden.
(2)Department of Surgical Sciences, Section of Vascular Surgery, Uppsala 
University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(3)Department of Surgical Sciences, Section of Vascular Surgery, Uppsala 
University, Uppsala, Sweden; Department of Surgery, Falun County Hospital, 
Falun, Sweden; Centre for Clinical Research (CKF), Dalarna, Sweden. Electronic 
address: sverker.svensjo@ltdalarna.se.

Comment in
    Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2017 Jun;53(6):810.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to report on the natural history of a 
population based cohort of 70 year old women with screening detected dilated 
aortas, and to systematically review publications reporting the rate of intact 
infrarenal aneurysm repair in women.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: In a previous study, 5140 (74%) of 6925 invited women 
attended an ultrasound (US) examination of the abdominal aorta at age 70 years. 
All 52 women with screening detected sub-aneurysms (SA, diameter 25-29 mm) and 
abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA, diameter ≥30 mm), were followed for 5 years 
with US. Infrarenal aortic diameters, AAA repair, all-cause and AAA specific 
mortality, and risk factors were recorded. In addition, a systematic review was 
conducted of the rate of intact infrarenal aneurysm repair in women.
RESULTS: A total of 33 (0.6%) women had a SA at the age of 70; two (6%) declined 
follow-up, five (15%) had died, and 26 were re-examined after 5 years follow-up 
at age 75. Twelve of 26 (46%) had progressed to AAAs, where one was directly 
qualified for surgery. Smoking (p = .010) and aortic diameter (p = .040) were 
associated with progression to AAA. A total of 19 (0.4%) women had an AAA at age 
70; two (11%) had died, six (32%) had been electively repaired with no 30 day 
mortality, and 11 (58%) had an AAA still under surveillance after 5 years 
follow-up at age 75 years. In the systematic search four studies with 
heterogeneous cohorts were identified and data on natural history were extracted 
and reviewed.
CONCLUSION: Screening detected AAAs and sub-aneurysms are clinically relevant in 
women. Within 5 years of detection a high proportion of AAAs require elective 
surgery, and a high proportion of sub-aneurysms progress to AAAs. Consequently, 
surveillance of sub-aneurysms in women with reasonable life expectancy can be 
considered. Publications on repair rate in women with intact AAAs are scarce and 
heterogeneous.

Copyright © 2017 European Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2017.02.024
PMID: 28389251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Dis Model Mech. 2017 Jun 1;10(6):737-750. doi: 10.1242/dmm.027953. Epub 2017
Apr  7.

Characterization of Drosophila Saposin-related mutants as a model for lysosomal 
sphingolipid storage diseases.

Sellin J(1), Schulze H(2), Paradis M(3), Gosejacob D(3), Papan C(4), Shevchenko 
A(4), Psathaki OE(5), Paululat A(6), Thielisch M(3), Sandhoff K(2), Hoch M(1).

Author information:
(1)LIMES-Institute, Program Unit Development & Genetics, Laboratory for 
Molecular Developmental Biology, University of Bonn, Carl-Troll-Strasse 31, 
53115 Bonn, Germany m.hoch@uni-bonn.de sellin@uni-bonn.de.
(2)LIMES-Institute, Program Unit Membrane Biology & Lipid Biochemistry, c/o 
Kekulé Institute of Organic Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Bonn, 
Gerhard-Domagk-Strasse 1, 53121 Bonn, Germany.
(3)LIMES-Institute, Program Unit Development & Genetics, Laboratory for 
Molecular Developmental Biology, University of Bonn, Carl-Troll-Strasse 31, 
53115 Bonn, Germany.
(4)Max-Planck-Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics, 
Pfotenhauerstrasse 108, 01307 Dresden, Germany.
(5)University of Osnabrück, Department of Zoology and Developmental Biology, 
Barbarastraße 11, 49076 Osnabrueck, Germany.
(6)University of Osnabrück, Biology, EM unit, Barbarastraße 11, 49076 
Osnabrueck, Germany.

Sphingolipidoses are inherited diseases belonging to the class of lysosomal 
storage diseases (LSDs), which are characterized by the accumulation of 
indigestible material in the lysosome caused by specific defects in the 
lysosomal degradation machinery. While some LSDs can be efficiently treated by 
enzyme replacement therapy (ERT), this is not possible if the nervous system is 
affected due to the presence of the blood-brain barrier. Sphingolipidoses in 
particular often present as severe, untreatable forms of LSDs with massive 
sphingolipid and membrane accumulation in lysosomes, neurodegeneration and very 
short life expectancy. The digestion of intralumenal membranes within lysosomes 
is facilitated by lysosomal sphingolipid activator proteins (saposins), which 
are cleaved from a prosaposin precursor. Prosaposin mutations cause some of the 
severest forms of sphingolipidoses, and are associated with perinatal lethality 
in mice, hampering studies on disease progression. We identify the Drosophila 
prosaposin orthologue Saposin-related (Sap-r) as a key regulator of lysosomal 
lipid homeostasis in the fly. Its mutation leads to a typical spingolipidosis 
phenotype with an enlarged endolysosomal compartment and sphingolipid 
accumulation as shown by mass spectrometry and thin layer chromatography. Sap-r 
mutants show reduced viability with ∼50% survival to adulthood, allowing us to 
study progressive neurodegeneration and analyze their lipid profile in young and 
aged flies. Additionally, we observe a defect in sterol homeostasis with local 
sterol depletion at the plasma membrane. Furthermore, we find that autophagy is 
increased, resulting in the accumulation of mitochondria in lysosomes, 
concomitant with increased oxidative stress. Together, we establish Drosophila 
Sap-r mutants as a lysosomal storage disease model suitable for studying the 
age-dependent progression of lysosomal dysfunction associated with lipid 
accumulation and the resulting pathological signaling events.

© 2017. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.

DOI: 10.1242/dmm.027953
PMCID: PMC5483003
PMID: 28389479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare no 
competing or financial interests.


469. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2017 May 1;83(10):e00258-17. doi:
10.1128/AEM.00258-17.  Print 2017 May 15.

Airborne Pathogens inside Automobiles for Domestic Use: Assessing In-Car Air 
Decontamination Devices Using Staphylococcus aureus as the Challenge Bacterium.

Sattar SA(1), Zargar B(2), Wright KE(2), Rubino JR(3), Ijaz MK(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada ssattar@uottawa.ca.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(3)RB, Montvale, New Jersey, USA.
(4)Department of Biology, Medgar Evers College of the City University of New 
York (CUNY), Brooklyn, New York, USA.

Family cars represent ∼74% of the yearly global output of motorized vehicles. 
With a life expectancy of ∼8 decades in many countries, the average person 
spends >100 min daily inside the confined and often shared space of the car, 
with exposure to a mix of potentially harmful microbes. Can commercial in-car 
microbial air decontamination devices mitigate the risk? Three such devices 
(designated devices 1 to 3) with HEPA filters were tested in the modified 
passenger cabin (3.25 m3) of a four-door sedan housed within a biosafety level 3 
containment facility. Staphylococcus aureus (ATCC 6538) was suspended in a soil 
load to simulate the presence of body fluids and aerosolized into the car's 
cabin with a 6-jet Collison nebulizer. A muffin fan (80 mm by 80 mm, with an 
output of 0.17 m3/min) circulated the air inside. Plates (150 mm diameter) of 
Trypticase soy agar (TSA), placed inside a programmable slit-to-agar sampler, 
were held at 36 ± 1°C for 18 to 24 h and examined for CFU. The input dose of the 
test bacterium, its rate of biological decay, and the log10 reductions by the 
test devices were analyzed. The arbitrarily set performance criterion was the 
time in hours a device took for a 3-log10 reduction in the level of airborne 
challenge bacterium. On average, the level of S. aureus challenge in the air 
varied between 4.2 log10 CFU/m3 and 5.5 log10 CFU/m3, and its rate of biological 
decay was -0.0213 ± 0.0021 log10 CFU/m3/min. Devices 1 to 3 took 2.3, 1.5, and 
9.7 h, respectively, to meet the performance criterion. While the experimental 
setup was tested using S. aureus as an archetypical airborne pathogen, it can be 
readily adapted to test other types of pathogens and technologies.IMPORTANCE 
This study was designed to test the survival of airborne pathogens in the 
confined and shared space of a family automobile as well as to assess claims of 
devices marketed for in-car air decontamination. The basic experimental setup 
and the test protocols reported are versatile enough for work with all major 
types of airborne human pathogens and for testing a wide variety of air 
decontamination technologies. This study could also lay the foundation for a 
standardized test protocol for use by device makers as well as regulators for 
the registration of such devices.

Copyright © 2017 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.00258-17
PMCID: PMC5411498
PMID: 28389537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Behav Ther. 2017 May;48(3):322-334. doi: 10.1016/j.beth.2016.12.003. Epub
2016  Dec 26.

Kindling of Life Stress in Bipolar Disorder: Effects of Early Adversity.

Shapero BG(1), Weiss RB(2), Burke TA(3), Boland EM(4), Abramson LY(5), Alloy 
LB(3).

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital; Harvard Medical School. Electronic address: 
bshapero@mgh.harvard.edu.
(2)McLean Hospital; Harvard Medical School.
(3)Temple University.
(4)Corporal Michael J. Crescenz VA Medical Center; University of Pennsylvania 
School of Medicine.
(5)University of Wisconsin, Madison.

Most theoretical frameworks regarding the role of life stress in bipolar 
disorders (BD) do not incorporate the possibility of a changing relationship 
between psychosocial context and episode initiation across the course of the 
disorder. The kindling hypothesis theorizes that over the longitudinal course of 
recurrent affective disorders, the relationship between major life stressors and 
episode initiation declines (Post, 1992). The present study aimed to test an 
extension of the kindling hypothesis in BD by examining the effect of early life 
adversity on the relationship between proximal life events and prospectively 
assessed mood episodes. Data from 145 bipolar participants (59.3% female, 75.2% 
Caucasian, and mean age of 20.19 years; SD = 1.75 years) were collected as part 
of the Temple-Wisconsin Longitudinal Investigation of Bipolar Spectrum Project 
(112 Bipolar II; 33 Cyclothymic disorder). Participants completed a self-report 
measure of early adversity at baseline and interview-assessed mood episodes and 
life events at regular 4-month follow-ups. Results indicate that early childhood 
adversity sensitized bipolar participants to the effects of recent stressors 
only for depressive episodes and not hypomanic episodes within BD. This was 
particularly the case with minor negative events. The current study extends 
prior research examining the kindling model in BD using a methodologically 
rigorous assessment of life stressors and mood episode occurrence. Clinicians 
should assess experiences of early adversity in individuals with BD as it may 
impact reactivity to developing depressive episodes in response to future 
stressors.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beth.2016.12.003
PMCID: PMC5385846
PMID: 28390496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Lancet. 2017 May 13;389(10082):1885-1906. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(17)30819-X.  Epub 2017 Apr 5.

Smoking prevalence and attributable disease burden in 195 countries and 
territories, 1990-2015: a systematic analysis from the Global Burden of Disease 
Study 2015.

GBD 2015 Tobacco Collaborators.

Collaborators: Reitsma MB, Fullman N, Ng M, Salama JS, Abajobir A, Abate KH, 
Abbafati C, Abera SF, Abraham B, Abyu GY, Adebiyi AO, Al-Aly Z, Aleman AV, Ali 
R, Al Alkerwi A, Allebeck P, Al-Raddadi RM, Amare AT, Amberbir A, Ammar W, 
Amrock SM, Antonio CAT, Asayesh H, Atnafu NT, Azzopardi P, Banerjee A, Barac A, 
Barrientos-Gutierrez T, Basto-Abreu AC, Bazargan-Hejazi S, Bedi N, Bell B, Bello 
AK, Bensenor IM, Beyene AS, Bhala N, Biryukov S, Bolt K, Brenner H, Butt Z, 
Cavalleri F, Cercy K, Chen H, Christopher DJ, Ciobanu LG, Colistro V, Colomar M, 
Cornaby L, Dai X, Damtew SA, Dandona L, Dandona R, Dansereau E, Davletov K, 
Dayama A, Degfie TT, Deribew A, Dharmaratne SD, Dimtsu BD, Doyle KE, Endries AY, 
Ermakov SP, Estep K, Faraon EJA, Farzadfar F, Feigin VL, Feigl AB, Fischer F, 
Friedman J, G/Hiwot TT, Gall SL, Gao W, Gillum RF, Gold AL, Gopalani SV, Gotay 
CC, Gupta R, Gupta R, Gupta V, Hamadeh RR, Hankey G, Harb HL, Hay SI, Horino M, 
Horita N, Hosgood HD, Husseini A, Ileanu BV, Islami F, Jiang G, Jiang Y, Jonas 
JB, Kabir Z, Kamal R, Kasaeian A, Kesavachandran CN, Khader YS, Khalil I, Khang 
YH, Khera S, Khubchandani J, Kim D, Kim YJ, Kimokoti RW, Kinfu Y, Knibbs LD, 
Kokubo Y, Kolte D, Kopec J, Kosen S, Kotsakis GA, Koul PA, Koyanagi A, Krohn KJ, 
Krueger H, Defo BK, Bicer BK, Kulkarni C, Kumar GA, Leasher JL, Lee A, Leinsalu 
M, Li T, Linn S, Liu P, Liu S, Lo LT, Lopez AD, Ma S, El Razek HMA, Majeed A, 
Malekzadeh R, Malta DC, Manamo WA, Martinez-Raga J, Mekonnen AB, Mendoza W, 
Miller TR, Mohammad KA, Morawska L, Musa KI, Nagel G, Neupane SP, Nguyen Q, 
Nguyen G, Oh IH, Oyekale AS, Pa M, Pana A, Park EK, Patil ST, Patton GC, Pedro 
J, Qorbani M, Rafay A, Rahman M, Rai RK, Ram U, Ranabhat CL, Refaat AH, Reinig 
N, Roba HS, Rodriguez A, Roman Y, Roth G, Roy A, Sagar R, Salomon JA, Sanabria 
J, de Souza Santos I, Sartorius B, Satpathy M, Sawhney M, Sawyer S, Saylan M, 
Schaub MP, Schluger N, Schutte AE, Sepanlou SG, Serdar B, Shaikh MA, She J, Shin 
MJ, Shiri R, Shishani K, Shiue I, Sigfusdottir ID, Silverberg JI, Singh J, Singh 
V, Slepak EL, Soneji S, Soriano JB, Soshnikov S, Sreeramareddy CT, Stein DJ, 
Stranges S, Subart ML, Swaminathan S, Szoeke CEI, Tefera WM, Topor-Madry R, Tran 
B, Tsilimparis N, Tymeson H, Ukwaja KN, Updike R, Uthman OA, Violante FS, 
Vladimirov SK, Vlassov V, Vollset SE, Vos T, Weiderpass E, Wen CP, Werdecker A, 
Wilson S, Wubshet M, Xiao L, Yakob B, Yano Y, Ye P, Yonemoto N, Yoon SJ, Younis 
MZ, Yu C, Zaidi Z, El Sayed Zaki M, Zhang AL, Zipkin B, Murray CJL, Forouzanfar 
MH, Gakidou E.

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2017 Oct 7;390(10103):1644.

BACKGROUND: The scale-up of tobacco control, especially after the adoption of 
the Framework Convention for Tobacco Control, is a major public health success 
story. Nonetheless, smoking remains a leading risk for early death and 
disability worldwide, and therefore continues to require sustained political 
commitment. The Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study 
(GBD) offers a robust platform through which global, regional, and national 
progress toward achieving smoking-related targets can be assessed.
METHODS: We synthesised 2818 data sources with spatiotemporal Gaussian process 
regression and produced estimates of daily smoking prevalence by sex, age group, 
and year for 195 countries and territories from 1990 to 2015. We analysed 38 
risk-outcome pairs to generate estimates of smoking-attributable mortality and 
disease burden, as measured by disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs). We then 
performed a cohort analysis of smoking prevalence by birth-year cohort to better 
understand temporal age patterns in smoking. We also did a decomposition 
analysis, in which we parsed out changes in all-cause smoking-attributable DALYs 
due to changes in population growth, population ageing, smoking prevalence, and 
risk-deleted DALY rates. Finally, we explored results by level of development 
using the Socio-demographic Index (SDI).
FINDINGS: Worldwide, the age-standardised prevalence of daily smoking was 25·0% 
(95% uncertainty interval [UI] 24·2-25·7) for men and 5·4% (5·1-5·7) for women, 
representing 28·4% (25·8-31·1) and 34·4% (29·4-38·6) reductions, respectively, 
since 1990. A greater percentage of countries and territories achieved 
significant annualised rates of decline in smoking prevalence from 1990 to 2005 
than in between 2005 and 2015; however, only four countries had significant 
annualised increases in smoking prevalence between 2005 and 2015 (Congo 
[Brazzaville] and Azerbaijan for men and Kuwait and Timor-Leste for women). In 
2015, 11·5% of global deaths (6·4 million [95% UI 5·7-7·0 million]) were 
attributable to smoking worldwide, of which 52·2% took place in four countries 
(China, India, the USA, and Russia). Smoking was ranked among the five leading 
risk factors by DALYs in 109 countries and territories in 2015, rising from 88 
geographies in 1990. In terms of birth cohorts, male smoking prevalence followed 
similar age patterns across levels of SDI, whereas much more heterogeneity was 
found in age patterns for female smokers by level of development. While smoking 
prevalence and risk-deleted DALY rates mostly decreased by sex and SDI quintile, 
population growth, population ageing, or a combination of both, drove rises in 
overall smoking-attributable DALYs in low-SDI to middle-SDI geographies between 
2005 and 2015.
INTERPRETATION: The pace of progress in reducing smoking prevalence has been 
heterogeneous across geographies, development status, and sex, and as 
highlighted by more recent trends, maintaining past rates of decline should not 
be taken for granted, especially in women and in low-SDI to middle-SDI 
countries. Beyond the effect of the tobacco industry and societal mores, a 
crucial challenge facing tobacco control initiatives is that demographic forces 
are poised to heighten smoking's global toll, unless progress in preventing 
initiation and promoting cessation can be substantially accelerated. Greater 
success in tobacco control is possible but requires effective, comprehensive, 
and adequately implemented and enforced policies, which might in turn require 
global and national levels of political commitment beyond what has been achieved 
during the past 25 years.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and Bloomberg Philanthropies.

Copyright © 2017 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(17)30819-X
PMCID: PMC5439023
PMID: 28390697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Eur Psychiatry. 2017 Jun;43:109-115. doi: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2017.02.487. Epub
 2017 Mar 17.

Contributions of specific causes of death to lost life expectancy in severe 
mental illness.

Jayatilleke N(1), Hayes RD(1), Dutta R(1), Shetty H(1), Hotopf M(1), Chang 
CK(2), Stewart R(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology, and Neuroscience, Psychological Medicine 
Dept, King's College London, PO Box 92, De Crespigny Park, SE5 8AF London, 
United Kingdom.
(2)Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology, and Neuroscience, Psychological Medicine 
Dept, King's College London, PO Box 92, De Crespigny Park, SE5 8AF London, 
United Kingdom. Electronic address: chin-kuo.chang@kcl.ac.uk.

The life expectancy gap between people with severe mental illness (SMI) and the 
general population persists and may even be widening. This study aimed to 
estimate contributions of specific causes of death to the gap. Age of death and 
primary cause of death were used to estimate life expectancy at birth for people 
with SMI from a large mental healthcare case register during 2007-2012. Using 
data for England and Wales in 2010, death rates in the SMI cohort for each 
primary cause of death category were replaced with gender- and age-specific 
norms for that cause. Life expectancy in SMI was then re-calculated and, thus, 
the contribution of that specific cause of death estimated. Natural causes 
accounted for 79.2% of lost life-years in women with SMI and 78.6% in men. 
Deaths from circulatory disorders accounted for more life-years lost in women 
than men (22.0% versus 17.4%, respectively), as did deaths from cancer (8.1% 
versus 0%), but the contribution from respiratory disorders was lower in women 
than men (13.7% versus 16.5%). For women, cancer contributed more in those with 
non-affective than affective disorders, while suicide, respiratory and digestive 
disorders contributed more in those with affective disorders. In men, 
respiratory disorders contributed more in non-affective disorders. Other 
contributions were similar between gender and affective/non-affective groups. 
Loss of life expectancy in people with SMI is accounted for by a broad range of 
causes of death, varying by gender and diagnosis. Interventions focused on 
multiple rather than individual causes of death should be prioritised 
accordingly.

Crown Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2017.02.487
PMID: 28391102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2017 Jan 1;32(suppl_1):i115-i122. doi: 
10.1093/ndt/gfw353.

Cost-effectiveness of eculizumab treatment after kidney transplantation in 
patients with atypical haemolytic uraemic syndrome.

van den Brand JA(1), Verhave JC(1), Adang EM(2), Wetzels JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Radboud Institute for Health Sciences, Radboud 
University Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(2)Department for Health Evidence, Radboud Institute for Health Sciences, 
Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Kidney transplantation in patients with atypical haemolytic uraemic 
syndrome (aHUS) is frequently complicated by recurrence of aHUS, often resulting 
in graft loss. Eculizumab prophylaxis prevents recurrence, improving graft 
survival. An alternative treatment strategy has been proposed where eculizumab 
is administered upon recurrence. We combined available evidence and performed a 
cost-effectiveness analysis of these competing strategies.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis using a decision analytical approach with 
Markov chain analyses was used to compare alternatives for aHUS patients with 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD): (i) dialysis treatment, (ii) kidney 
transplantation, (iii) kidney transplantation with eculizumab therapy upon 
recurrence of aHUS, (iv) kidney transplantation with eculizumab induction 
consisting of 12 months of prophylaxis and (v) kidney transplantation with 
lifelong eculizumab prophylaxis. We assumed that all patients received a graft 
from a living donor and that recurrence probability was 28.4% within the first 
year of transplantation.
RESULTS: At 8.34 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained and a cost of €402 
412, kidney transplantation without eculizumab was the least costly alternative. 
By comparison, dialysis was more costly and resulted in fewer QALYs gained. 
Eculizumab upon recurrence resulted in 9.55 QALYs gained at a cost of €425 097. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was €18 748 per QALY. Both 
eculizumab induction and lifelong eculizumab were inferior to eculizumab upon 
recurrence, as both resulted in fewer QALYs gained and higher costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Kidney transplantation is more cost effective than dialysis to 
treat ESRD due to aHUS. Adding eculizumab treatment results in a substantial 
gain in QALYs. When compared with eculizumab upon recurrence, neither eculizumab 
induction nor lifelong eculizumab prophylaxis resulted in more QALYs, but did 
yield far higher costs. Therefore, eculizumab upon recurrence of aHUS is more 
acceptable.

© The Author 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of ERA-EDTA. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfw353
PMID: 28391343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. 3 Biotech. 2017 May;7(1):15. doi: 10.1007/s13205-016-0586-4. Epub 2017 Apr
8.

Microbial metabolites in nutrition, healthcare and agriculture.

Singh R(1), Kumar M(1), Mittal A(2), Mehta PK(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, VP Chest Institute, University of Delhi, Delhi, 
110007, India.
(2)Mill Hill Laboratory, Division of Structural Biology and Biophysics, The 
Francis Crick Institute, London, UK. anshumalijnu@gmail.com.
(3)Centre for Molecular Biology, Central University of Jammu, Raya-Suchani, 
Bagla, Dist. Samba, J&K, 181143, India. mehtapkbiotech@gmail.com.

Microorganisms are a promising source of an enormous number of natural products, 
which have made significant contribution to almost each sphere of human, plant 
and veterinary life. Natural compounds obtained from microorganisms have proved 
their value in nutrition, agriculture and healthcare. Primary metabolites, such 
as amino acids, enzymes, vitamins, organic acids and alcohol are used as 
nutritional supplements as well as in the production of industrial commodities 
through biotransformation. Whereas, secondary metabolites are organic compounds 
that are largely obtained by extraction from plants or tissues. They are 
primarily used in the biopharmaceutical industry due to their capability to 
reduce infectious diseases in human beings and animals and thus increase the 
life expectancy. Additionally, microorganisms and their products inevitably play 
a significant role in sustainable agriculture development.

DOI: 10.1007/s13205-016-0586-4
PMCID: PMC5385174
PMID: 28391479


475. Eur J Orthop Surg Traumatol. 2017 Oct;27(7):901-907. doi: 
10.1007/s00590-017-1954-4. Epub 2017 Apr 8.

Discovery Elbow System: clinical and radiological results after 2- to 10-year 
follow-up.

Hänninen P(1), Niinimäki T(2), Flinkkilä T(2), Niinimäki J(3), Ohtonen P(2), 
Yli-Luukko S(2), Leppilahti J(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Orthopaedic and Trauma Surgery, Department of Surgery, Medical 
Research Center, Oulu, Oulu University Hospital, University of Oulu, PL 21, 
90029 OYS, Oulu, Finland. patrik.hanninen@lshp.fi.
(2)Division of Orthopaedic and Trauma Surgery, Department of Surgery, Medical 
Research Center, Oulu, Oulu University Hospital, University of Oulu, PL 21, 
90029 OYS, Oulu, Finland.
(3)Research Unit of Medical Imaging, Physics and Technology, Medical Research 
Center, Oulu, Oulu University Hospital, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland.

BACKGROUND: Discovery Elbow System (DES) is a semi-constrained prosthesis, 
mainly used for patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHODS: Records from 79 patients with RA (90 DES arthroplasties) were reviewed; 
47 patients with 55 DES elbows were re-examined. Range of motion (ROM) of both 
elbows, upper limb function, and quality of life (Disabilities of the Arm, 
Shoulder, and Hand [DASH] score, Mayo Elbow Performance Score [MEPS], and the 
RAND 36-Item Health Survey [RAND-36]) were assessed. Cementing quality was 
assessed, and radiolucent lines measured from plain radiographs. Mean follow-up 
was 64 (range 24-123) months.
RESULTS: Pre-operatively to post-operatively, mean elbow flexion improved from 
120° to 146° (p < 0.001) and mean extension lag improved from 29° to 24° 
(p = 0.02), respectively. At follow-up, mean supination was 66°, mean pronation 
was 69°, and mean grip strength was 14 kg. Grip strength and ROM (except 
supination) were similar between the DES elbow and contralateral un-operated 
elbow. Mean post-operative MEPS was 93 points (excellent, n = 38; good, n = 14; 
fair, n = 2; and poor, n = 1). Mean DASH score was 43 points. The RAND-36 showed 
that physical functioning, physical role functioning, bodily pain, and general 
health were lower than the Finnish reference values. Primary cementing was 
challenging, and radiolucent lines appeared during follow-up. Four prostheses 
were revised because of aseptic loosening (n = 3) and periprosthetic fracture 
(n = 1).
CONCLUSION: DES provides significant improvement in patient's flexion-extension 
arc. Cementing of the elbow prosthesis was challenging; radiolucent lines 
appeared during the 5-year follow-up, but their clinical relevance remains 
unclear. First-generation locking screws may loosen over time.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level IV.

DOI: 10.1007/s00590-017-1954-4
PMID: 28391518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Eur J Health Econ. 2018 Apr;19(3):409-417. doi: 10.1007/s10198-017-0892-8.
Epub  2017 Apr 8.

Burden of suicide in Poland in 2012: how could it be measured and how big is it?

Orlewska K(1), Orlewska E(2).

Author information:
(1)Medical University of Warsaw, ul. Zwirki i Wigury 61, 02-091, Warsaw, Poland.
(2)Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, The Jan Kochanowski University in 
Kielce, AL. IX Wiekow Kielc 19, 25-317, Kielce, Poland. eorl@ujk.edu.pl.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of our study was to estimate the health-related and economic 
burden of suicide in Poland in 2012 and to demonstrate the effects of using 
different assumptions on the disease burden estimation.
METHODS: Years of life lost (YLL) were calculated by multiplying the number of 
deaths by the remaining life expectancy. Local expected YLL (LEYLL) and standard 
expected YLL (SEYLL) were computed using Polish life expectancy tables and WHO 
standards, respectively. In the base case analysis LEYLL and SEYLL were computed 
with 3.5 and 0% discount rates, respectively, and no age-weighting. Premature 
mortality costs were calculated using a human capital approach, with discounting 
at 5%, and are reported in Polish zloty (PLN) (1 euro = 4.3 PLN). The impact of 
applying different assumptions on base-case estimates was tested in sensitivity 
analyses.
RESULTS: The total LEYLLs and SEYLLs due to suicide were 109,338 and 279,425, 
respectively, with 88% attributable to male deaths. The cost of male premature 
mortality (2,808,854,532 PLN) was substantially higher than for females 
(177,852,804 PLN). Discounting and age-weighting have a large effect on the base 
case estimates of LEYLLs. The greatest impact on the estimates of 
suicide-related premature mortality costs was due to the value of the discount 
rate.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings provide quantitative evidence on the burden of 
suicide. In our opinion each of the demonstrated methods brings something 
valuable to the evaluation of the impact of suicide on a given population, but 
LEYLLs and premature mortality costs estimated according to national guidelines 
have the potential to be useful for local public health policymakers.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-017-0892-8
PMCID: PMC5978911
PMID: 28391545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No funding was received.


477. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2018 Feb;30(2):139-144. doi: 10.1007/s40520-017-0757-0.
Epub  2017 Apr 8.

Ageism and surgical treatment of breast cancer in Italian hospitals.

Di Rosa M(1), Chiatti C(2), Rimland JM(1), Capasso M(3), Scandali VM(4), 
Prospero E(4), Corsonello A(5), Lattanzio F(1).

Author information:
(1)Scientific Direction, National Institute of Health and Science on 
Aging-I.N.R.C.A., Ancona, Italy.
(2)Scientific Direction, National Institute of Health and Science on 
Aging-I.N.R.C.A., Ancona, Italy. carlo.chiatti@gmail.com.
(3)Local Health Unit, Latina, Italy.
(4)Section of Hygiene and Public Health, Polytechnic University of the Marche 
Region, Ancona, Italy.
(5)Unit of Geriatric Pharmacoepidemiology, National Institute of Health and 
Science on Aging-I.N.R.C.A., Cosenza, Italy.

AIM: To determine if age is a factor influencing the type of breast cancer 
surgery (radical versus conservative) in Italy and to investigate the regional 
differences in breast cancer surgery clinical practice.
METHODS: Retrospective study is based on national hospital discharge records. 
The study draws on routinely collected data from hospital discharge records in 
Italy in 2010. The following exclusion criteria were applied: day hospital 
stays, patients younger than 17 years, males, patients without an ICD-9CM code 
indicating breast cancer and breast surgery, and repeated hospital admission of 
the same patient. Overall, 49,058 patient records were selected for the 
analysis.
RESULTS: The proportion of conservative breast cancer operations was 70.9%. A 
greater number of women younger than 70 had undergone a breast-conserving 
operation compared to older women. There were regional variations ranging from a 
minimum in Basilicata to a maximum in Val d'Aosta. Multivariate analysis 
revealed that older patients with lower clinical severity were more likely to 
have undergone a radical operation than younger women. In addition, radical 
surgery was approximately twice as likely to occur in a private hospital that 
performed at least 50 breast cancer operations annually than in a public 
hospital that performed <50 breast surgeries.
CONCLUSION: Notwithstanding increases in life expectancy and the lack of 
clinical evidence to support the use of age as a surrogate for co-morbid 
conditions and frailty, our data on breast cancer operations in Italy are 
consistent with the hypothesis suggesting the persistence of ageistic practice 
in the healthcare system.

DOI: 10.1007/s40520-017-0757-0
PMID: 28391587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Br J Dermatol. 2017 Dec;177(6):1527-1536. doi: 10.1111/bjd.15561. Epub 2017
May  31.

Ciclosporin compared with prednisolone therapy for patients with pyoderma 
gangrenosum: cost-effectiveness analysis of the STOP GAP trial.

Mason JM(1), Thomas KS(2), Ormerod AD(3), Craig FE(4), Mitchell E(5), Norrie 
J(6), Williams HC(2); U.K. Dermatology Clinical Trials Network's STOP GAP team.

Author information:
(1)Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, U.K.
(2)Centre of Evidence Based Dermatology, University of Nottingham, NG7 2NR, U.K.
(3)Division of Applied Medicine, Aberdeen University, Aberdeen, AB24 2ZD, U.K.
(4)Department of Dermatology, NHS Forth Valley, Stirling, FK8 2AU, U.K.
(5)Nottingham Clinical Trials Unit, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, NG7 
2UH, U.K.
(6)Edinburgh Clinical Trials Unit, Usher Institute, University of Edinburgh, 
EH16 4TU, U.K.

Comment in
    Br J Dermatol. 2017 Dec;177(6):1475-1476.
    Br J Dermatol. 2017 Dec;177(6):1463-1465.

BACKGROUND: Pyoderma gangrenosum (PG) is a painful, ulcerating skin disease with 
poor evidence for management. Prednisolone and ciclosporin are the most commonly 
used treatments, although not previously compared within a randomized controlled 
trial (RCT).
OBJECTIVES: To compare the cost-effectiveness of ciclosporin and 
prednisolone-initiated treatment for patients with PG.
METHODS: Quality of life (QoL, EuroQoL five dimensions three level 
questionnaire, EQ-5D-3L) and resource data were collected as part of the STOP 
GAP trial: a multicentre, parallel-group, observer-blind RCT. Within-trial 
analysis used bivariate regression of costs and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs), with multiple imputation of missing data, informing a probabilistic 
assessment of incremental treatment cost-effectiveness from a health service 
perspective.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, when compared with prednisolone, ciclosporin 
was cost-effective due to a reduction in costs [net cost: -£1160; 95% confidence 
interval (CI) -2991 to 672] and improvement in QoL (net QALYs: 0·055; 95% CI 
0·018-0·093). However, this finding appears driven by a minority of patients 
with large lesions (≥ 20 cm2 ) (net cost: -£5310; 95% CI -9729 to -891; net 
QALYs: 0·077; 95% CI 0·004-0·151). The incremental cost-effectiveness of 
ciclosporin for the majority of patients with smaller lesions was £23 374/QALY, 
although the estimate is imprecise: the probability of being cost-effective at a 
willingness-to-pay of £20 000/QALY was 43%.
CONCLUSIONS: Consistent with the clinical findings of the STOP GAP trial, 
patients with small lesions should receive treatment guided by the side-effect 
profiles of the drugs and patient preference - neither strategy is clearly a 
preferred use of National Health Service resources. However, 
ciclosporin-initiated treatment may be more cost-effective for patients with 
large lesions.

© 2017 The Authors. British Journal of Dermatology published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd on behalf of British Association of Dermatologists.

DOI: 10.1111/bjd.15561
PMCID: PMC5811816
PMID: 28391619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Ther Adv Respir Dis. 2017 Apr;11(4):181-188. doi: 10.1177/1753465817690505.
Epub  2017 Feb 1.

Use of temperature-controlled laminar airflow in the management of atopic 
asthma: clinical evidence and experience.

Warner JO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Imperial College London, London W2 1PG, UK.

Avoidance of allergens in the treatment of asthma has hitherto not achieved 
significant benefit despite the strong evidence that allergy both increases 
severity and contributes to exacerbations of asthma. House dust mite, cat and 
dog allergens are the most common perennial allergic triggers and most avoidance 
strategies have focused on reducing exposures in bedrooms. Cochrane reviews have 
suggested that they neither significantly reduce allergen levels nor improve 
asthma. While the lack of efficacy may be assumed to be a consequence of 
exposures occurring outside the bedroom, prolonged sleep is associated with 
increased susceptibility to bronchospasm and airway inflammation. Thus, if 
efficient reductions in allergen exposure could be achieved during sleep, it 
might be expected that this would result in significant improvements in control 
of asthma. The temperature-controlled laminar airflow (TLA) is a system which 
can be employed over beds in a domestic environment and results in massive 
reductions in particulate exposure of recumbent subjects, including highly 
respirable allergens such as Fel. D1 from cats. Trials of TLA have demonstrated 
highly significant improvements in asthma quality of life and reductions on 
airway inflammation as monitored by exhaled nitric oxide levels. Furthermore, in 
patients with the worst disease, severe exacerbation frequency was significantly 
reduced. Based on UK health-service costs, the use of TLA falls well below the 
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) threshold for the 
incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) per quality adjusted life year 
(QALY). Indeed, for those with frequent exacerbations, it is cost saving and 
should be prescribed for such allergic asthmatic patients.

DOI: 10.1177/1753465817690505
PMCID: PMC5933625
PMID: 28391760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: The author was a 
member of the Scientific Advisory board designing and over-seeing the conduct of 
the 4A trial discussed in the paper. He has also given paid lectures at 
Airsonett sponsored symposia during international medical conferences. However, 
the paper was written without any influence from the company and represent his 
views alone.


480. Bull Cancer. 2017 Jun;104(6):585-592. doi: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2017.02.004.
Epub  2017 Apr 6.

[The management of bone metastasis].

[Article in French]

Bonetto R(1), Tallet A(2), Mélot A(3), Calderon B(4), Barlesi F(5).

Author information:
(1)Aix-Marseille université, Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille, service 
d'oncologie multidisciplinaire et innovations thérapeutiques, 13920 Marseille 
cedex 15, France. Electronic address: remi.bonetto1@gmail.com.
(2)Institut Paoli-Calmettes, département d'oncologie-radiothérapie, 232, 
boulevard Sainte-Marguerite, 13273 Marseille cedex 09, France.
(3)Aix-Marseille université, hôpital Nord, service de neurochirurgie, chemin des 
Bourrely, 13915 Marseille cedex 20, France.
(4)Aix-Marseille université, Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille, CHU La 
Timone, service de radiothérapie, 264, rue Saint-Pierre, 13385 Marseille cedex 
5, France.
(5)Aix-Marseille université, Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille, service 
d'oncologie multidisciplinaire et innovations thérapeutiques, 13920 Marseille 
cedex 15, France; Aix-Marseille université, faculté de médecine, centre de 
recherche en oncologie biologique et oncopharmacologie, Inserm U911, 13005 
Marseille, France.

Bone metastasis are the most common cause of pain related to cancer, reducing 
patients' quality of life, and sometimes threatening their life-expectancy. 
Their management has to be pluridisciplinary, because of all the therapeutic 
options and the diversity of bone metastasis locations. The aim of this work is 
to propose a rational decisional algorithm for the treatment strategy of these 
secondary locations. Anti-resorbtive drugs with systemic action, surgery, 
conventional or stereotactic radiation therapy, and new techniques of 
interventional radiology are options that could be used separately or combined. 
They have shown benefits on symptomatic treatment, improving quality of life. 
Their indications vary according to the tumor site (short vs. long bones, 
carrier vs. non-carrier bones), the symptomatology (pain, neurologic symptoms), 
and the presence of complications (most of all fractures). The diverse 
presentations lead us to define this decisional algorithm, to guide the 
practice, while giving the maximal benefit to each patient according to each 
metastasis.

Copyright © 2017 Société Française du Cancer. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2017.02.004
PMID: 28391985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Health Policy. 2017 Jun;121(6):663-674. doi:
10.1016/j.healthpol.2017.03.015.  Epub 2017 Mar 31.

The effects of population ageing on health care expenditure: A Bayesian VAR 
analysis using data from Italy.

Lopreite M(1), Mauro M(2).

Author information:
(1)Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna di Pisa, Institute of Economics, Piazza dei 
Martiri della Libertà, 3-56127 Pisa, Italy. Electronic address: 
m.lopreite@santannapisa.it.
(2)University Magna Graecia of Catanzaro, Department of Clinical and 
Experimental Medicine, Viale Europa, 88100 Germaneto, Italy.

Currently, the dynamics of the population have raised concerns about the future 
sustainability of Italy's national health system. The increasing proportion of 
people over the age of 65 could lead to a higher incidence of 
chronic-degenerative diseases and a greater demand for health and social care 
with a consequent impact on health spending. Although in recent years the 
quantity and quality of works on the relationship between ageing and health 
expenditure has increased substantially these works do not always obtain similar 
results. Starting from this point, we use a B-VAR model and Eurostat data to 
investigate over the period 1990-2013 the impact of demographic changes on 
health expenditure in Italy. We estimate these models using impulse-response 
analysis and variance decomposition. The results show that health expenditure in 
Italy reacts more to the ageing population compared with life expectancy and per 
capita GDP. In response to these findings, we conclude that the impact of the 
increase in the elderly population with disabilities will fall on the long-term 
care sector. Effective health interventions, such as health-promotion and 
disease-prevention programs that target the main causes of morbidity, could help 
to minimize the cost pressures associated with ageing by ensuring that the 
population stays healthy in old age. We consider the implications of this work 
for health care policy suggestions and for future research.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2017.03.015
PMID: 28392027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2018 Feb 2;81:488-492. doi: 
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2017.04.003. Epub 2017 Apr 6.

Use of CRISPR/Cas9 to model brain diseases.

Yan S(1), Tu Z(1), Li S(2), Li XJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Education CNS Regeneration Collaborative Joint Laboratory, 
Guangdong-Hongkong-Macau Institute of CNS Regeneration, Jinan University, 
Guangzhou 510631, China.
(2)Department of Human Genetics, Emory University School of Medicine, 615 
Michael Street, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.
(3)Ministry of Education CNS Regeneration Collaborative Joint Laboratory, 
Guangdong-Hongkong-Macau Institute of CNS Regeneration, Jinan University, 
Guangzhou 510631, China; Department of Human Genetics, Emory University School 
of Medicine, 615 Michael Street, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. Electronic address: 
xli2@emory.edu.

Aging-related brain diseases consist of a number of important neurodegenerative 
disorders, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's diseases, all of 
which have become more prevalent as the life expectancy of humans is prolonged. 
Age-dependent brain disorders are associated with both environmental insults and 
genetic mutations. For those brain disorders that are inherited, gene editing is 
