869. Front Neurol. 2017 May 1;8:157. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2017.00157. eCollection
2017.

Parkinson Disease: An Evolutionary Perspective.

Garcia-Ruiz PJ(1), Espay AJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Fundacion Jimenez Diaz, Madrid, Spain.
(2)James J. and Joan A. Gardner Family Center for Parkinson's Disease and 
Movement Disorders, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, USA.

There are two central premises to this evolutionary view of Parkinson disease 
(PD). First, PD is a specific human disease. Second, the prevalence of PD has 
increased over the course of human history. Several lines of evidence may 
explain why PD appears to be restricted to the human species. The major 
manifestations of PD are the consequence of degeneration in the 
dopamine-synthesizing neurons of the mesostriatal neuronal pathway. It is of 
note the enormous expansion of the human dopamine mesencephalic neurons onto the 
striatum compared with other mammals. Hence, an evolutionary bottle neck was 
reached with the expansion of the massive nigrostriatal axonal arborization. 
This peculiar nigral overload may partly explain the selective fragility of the 
human dopaminergic mesencephalic neurotransmission and the unique presence of PD 
in humans. On the other hand, several facts may explain the increasing 
prevalence of PD over the centuries. The apparently low prevalence of PD before 
the twentieth century may be related to the shorter life expectancy and survival 
compared to present times. In addition, changes in lifestyle over the course of 
human history might also account for the increasing burden of PD. Our 
hunter-gatherers ancestors invested large energy expenditure on a daily basis, a 
prototypical physical way of life for which our genome remains adapted. 
Technological advances have led to a dramatic reduction of physical exercise. 
Since the brain release of neurotrophic factors (including brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor) is partially exercise related, the marked reduction in 
exercise may contribute to the increasing prevalence of PD.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2017.00157
PMCID: PMC5410593
PMID: 28507529


870. Aust Endod J. 2017 Dec;43(3):102-109. doi: 10.1111/aej.12203. Epub 2017 May
16.

The effect of sodium hypochlorite concentration and irrigation needle extension 
on biofilm removal from a simulated root canal model.

Mohmmed SA(1), Vianna ME(2), Penny MR(3), Hilton ST(3), Knowles JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering, UCL Eastman Dental 
Institute, University College London, London, UK.
(2)School of Dentistry, College of Biomedical and Lifesciences, Cardiff 
University, Cardiff, UK.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Life Sciences, University College London, 
London, UK.

To investigate the effect of sodium hypochlorite concentration and needle 
extension on removal of Enterococcus faecalis biofilm, sixty root canal models 
were 3D printed. Biofilms were grown on the apical 3 mm of the canal for 10 
days. Irrigation for 60s with 9 mL of either 5.25% or 2.5% NaOCl or water was 
performed using a needle inserted either 3 or 2 mm from the canal terminus and 
imaged using fluorescence microscopy and residual biofilm percentages were 
calculated using imaging software. The data were analysed using analysis of 
covariance and two-sample t-tests. A significance level of 0.05 was used 
throughout. Residual biofilm was less using 5.25% than with 2.5% NaOCl. 
Statistically significant biofilm removal was evident with the needle placed 
closer to the canal terminus. A greater reduction of available chlorine and pH 
was noted as the concentration increased. One-minute irrigation was not 
sufficient for complete biofilm removal.

© 2017 Australian Society of Endodontology Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/aej.12203
PMID: 28508523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Health Econ. 2017 Dec;26(12):e285-e303. doi: 10.1002/hec.3506. Epub 2017 May
15.

Individual survival curves comparing subjective and observed mortality risks.

Bissonnette L(1), Hurd MD(2), Michaud PC(3).

Author information:
(1)Université Laval, Canada.
(2)RAND Corporation and NBER.
(3)HEC Montréal, Canada.

We compare individual survival curves constructed from objective (actual 
mortality) and elicited subjective information (probability of survival to a 
given target age). We develop a methodology to estimate jointly subjective and 
objective individual survival curves accounting for rounding on subjective 
reports of perceived survival. We make use of the long follow-up period in the 
Health and Retirement Study and the high quality of mortality data to estimate 
individual survival curves that feature both observed and unobserved 
heterogeneity. This allows us to compare objective and subjective estimates of 
remaining life expectancy for various groups and compare welfare effects of 
objective and subjective mortality risk using the life cycle model of 
consumption. We find that subjective and objective hazards are not the same. The 
median welfare loss from misperceptions of mortality risk when annuities are not 
available is 7% of current wealth at age 65 whereas more than 25% of respondents 
have losses larger than 60% of wealth. When annuities are available and 
exogenously given, the welfare loss is substantially lower.

Copyright © 2017 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.3506
PMCID: PMC5784432
PMID: 28508558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. J Cancer Res Ther. 2017 Jan-Mar;13(1):16-20. doi: 10.4103/0973-1482.183219.

Multiple primary malignant neoplasms: A 10-year experience at a single 
institution from Turkey.

Etiz D(1), Metcalfe E(1), Akcay M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Medical Faculty, Eskisehir Osmangazi 
University, 26480 Eskisehir, Turkey.

PURPOSE: The development of improved diagnostic techniques, increased survival, 
and life expectancy of cancer patients have all contributed to the higher 
frequency of multiple primary malignant neoplasms (MPMN). MPMN can be divided 
into two main categories: Synchronous MPMN (sMPMN) and metachronous MPMN 
(mMPMN).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 122 patients with MPMN analyzed retrospectively who were 
admitted to the Radiation Oncology Department of Eskisehir Osmangazi University 
Medical Faculty from January 2004 to December 2013. The patient characteristics 
and relation with overall survival (OS) were examined.
RESULTS: The overall incidence of MPMN was found 1.2% in our institution. The 
median age was 59 (range: 29-80) years. Male:female ratio was 54.5:45.5%, and 
mMPMN:sMPMN ratio was 69.9:30.1%. The most common 3 cancers were head and neck 
(22%), breast (20%), and gastrointestinal (20%) for first primary; and 
gastrointestinal (22%), lung (19%), gynecologic tumors (15%) for second primary 
cancers, respectively. The median OS in patients with sMPMN and mMPMN were 30 
(3-105) and 91 (4-493) months. 2, 3, and 5 years OS of patients with sMPMN were 
86%, 75%, 63%, and with mMPMN were 92%, 88%, 80%, respectively (P < 0.005).
CONCLUSION: OS was found longer in female patients with sMPMN (P < 0.05), and in 
all group with mMPMN (P < 0.005).

DOI: 10.4103/0973-1482.183219
PMID: 28508827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Adv Gerontol. 2015;28(4):605-611.

[Demographic aspects of population aging in Saint-Petersburg at the end of 
XX-the beginning of XXI century. Part I. Conventional aging measures].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Safarova AA(1), Safarova GL(1), Kosolapenko NG(1), Arutyunov AV(2).

Author information:
(1)Saint-Petersburg Institute for Economics and Mathematics, RAS, 
Saint-Petersburg, 190013, Russian Federation; safarova@emi.nw.ru.
(2)Saint-Petersburg Institute of Bioregulation and Gerontology, 
Saint-Petersburg, 197110, Russian Federation.

The paper represents the first part of the series of two articles on demographic 
aspects of population aging in Saint-Petersburg in 1990-2010 compared to the 
situation in the Russian Federation as a whole. In the first part, the situation 
with the population aging in Saint-Petersburg and Russia is considered based on 
traditional aging measures - the proportion of elderly in the total population, 
aging index, old age dependency rate and the parents support ratio. In the 
second part, a number of prospective aging indicators that take account of 
remaining life expectancy, will be studied. The analysis also includes the 
consideration of gender imbalance of aging indicators. Accelerating of 
population aging in Saint-Petersburg and Russia leads to a new demographic 
situation requiring a number of economic and socially oriented measures.

Publisher: Данная работа является первой частью цикла из двух статей, 
посвященных демографическим аспектам старения населения Санкт-Петербурга в 
1990-2010 гг. в сопоставлении с ситуацией в РФ в целом. В 1-й части дан анализ 
состояния процесса демографического старения в Санкт-Петербурге и России на 
основе традиционных мер старения населения - доли пожилых в общей численности 
населения, индекса старения, коэффициента демографической нагрузки за счет 
пожилых и коэффициента поддержки родителей. Во 2-й части будет рассмотрен ряд 
«перспективных» (prospective) показателей старения населения, основанных не на 
хронологическом возрасте, а на продолжительности предстоящей жизни. В анализ 
также включено рассмотрение гендерного дисбаланса показателей старения 
населения. Ускорение темпов старения населения Санкт-Петербурга и России ведет к 
новой демографической ситуации, которая требует принятия адекватных мер 
экономической и социальной направленности.

PMID: 28509444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Adv Gerontol. 2015;28(4):612-619.

[Comparative assessment of aging rates in population from different cities].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Negasheva MA(1), Lapshina NE(1), Sineva IM(2), Gritchina OI(3), Kharlova AG(4), 
Okushko RV(5).

Author information:
(1)M. V. Lomonosov Moscow State University, Moscow, 119991, Russian Federation; 
negasheva@mail.ru.
(2)M. V. Lomonosov Moscow State University, Moscow, 119991, Russian Federation.
(3)Municipal Polyclinic № 1, Barnaul, Altaysky kray, 656056, Russian Federation.
(4)Altai Regional Hospital for Veterans of Wars, Barnaul, Altaysky kray, 656045, 
Russian Federation.
(5)Pridnestrovie State University, Tiraspol, MD-3300, Pridnestrovian Moldavian 
Republic.

437 people (214 men and 223 women) at the age of 50-90 years old, residents of 
different cities of Russia and Pridnestrovie (Moscow, Barnaul, Tiraspol) have 
been examined. Using a complex of morphofunctional characteristics, parameters 
of the biological age have been analyzed, and groups with delayed, moderate and 
accelerated aging rates have been outlined. Regional peculiarities in 
distribution of incidence of different variants of aging rates have been 
revealed. In Moscow men and women, the delayed variant of development of age 
involution changes is the most widespread. In Tiraspol women, compared to the 
Moscow group, incidence of people with accelerated aging rates is 2 times 
higher, which can be stipulated by influence of a complex of biosocial factors.

Publisher: Проанализированы параметры биологического возраста у населения разных 
городов России и Приднестровья (Москва, Барнаул, Тирасполь). Обследованы 437 
человек 50-90 лет (214 мужчин и 223 женщины), выделены группы с замедленными, 
средними и ускоренными темпами старения. Выявлены региональные особенности в 
распределении частоты встречаемости разных вариантов темпов старения: у мужчин и 
женщин Москвы наиболее распространен замедленный вариант развития возрастных 
инволюционных изменений. У женщин Тирасполя по сравнению с московской группой 
значительно чаще (в 2 раза) встречаются ускоренные темпы старения, что может 
быть обусловлено влиянием комплекса биосоциальных факторов.

PMID: 28509445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Adv Gerontol. 2015;28(4):629-633.

[Influence of changes in the reproductive behavior on the average duration of 
the reproductive period and life span].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Belyakov MV(1).

Author information:
(1)e-mail: mihail-belyakov@yandex.ru.

This article explains the model of changing the duration of the reproductive 
period and life span under the influence of the demographic trend towards an 
increase in age at first birth in modern developed countries. Acting as a factor 
of artificial selection, increase parental age may lead to a shift of the upper 
boundary of the reproductive period in the new generations, and life expectancy. 
The article discusses the role of a number of social factors to identify trends.

Publisher: В данной статье обосновывается разработанная автором модель изменения 
длительности репродуктивного периода и продолжительности жизни под влиянием 
демографической тенденции к увеличению возраста первого рождения в современных 
развитых странах. Действуя как фактор искусственного отбора, увеличение возраста 
родителей может приводить к смещению верхней границы репродуктивного периода в 
последующих поколениях и, как следствие, продолжительности жизни. В статье 
рассматривается также влияние ряда социальных факторов на выявленную тенденцию.

PMID: 28509448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Adv Gerontol. 2015;28(4):634-638.

[Modern directions of scientific and practical research of the policy of active 
and healthy longevity: experience and perspectives].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Golubeva EY(1).

Author information:
(1)M. V. Lomonosov Northern Arctic Federal University, Arkhangelsk, 163002, 
Russian Federation; e.golubeva@narfu.ru.

Modern terminology on active and healthy aging used in scientific and project 
activities is discussed. There have been analyzed the WHO conception on active 
aging, which has no precise universally agreed definition, its main 
determinants. The directions of scientific expertise in the major European 
projects INNOVAGE - assessment of potentially profitable social innovations 
relating to the welfare and quality of life and health in old age; MOPACT - the 
interference between the demographic development and the main dimensions of 
economic and social contribution of older persons is defined. The approach to 
implement the policy of active and healthy longevity as a valuable asset of the 
modern society is underlined.

Publisher: Обсуждена современная терминология по активному и здоровому 
долголетию, применяемая в научно-проектной деятельности. На основе концепции ВОЗ 
проанализирована политика активного долголетия, которая не имеет точного 
универсально согласованного определения, ее основные детерминанты. Представлены 
направления научной экспертизы в крупных европейских проектах INNOVAGE по оценке 
потенциально рентабельных социальных инноваций, относящиеся к улучшению 
благосостояния и качества жизни и здоровью в старости; MOPACT — по изучению 
взаимовлияния демографического развития и основных измерений экономического и 
социального вклада лиц пожилого возраста. Подчеркнут подход в реализации 
политики активного и здорового долголетия как ценного актива современного 
общества.

PMID: 28509449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Adv Gerontol. 2015;28(4):645-655.

[Physiological aspects of music and longevity].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Dymnikowa M(1).

Author information:
(1)Association of Musical Psychologists and Psychotherapists, Moscow, 119602, 
Russian Federation; dmwl@bk.ru.

The article provides an overview of the results of studies on the effect of 
music on the function of various physiological systems of the organism including 
the nervous, cardiovascular and endocrine systems, also on the effect of 
Mozart's music and the later mature Baroque music. Particular attention is paid 
to information on the influence of different kinds of music (classical, jazz and 
rock), of the nature and of the degree of musical activity (listeners, amateurs 
and professional performers) on cognitive and behavioral function, on health 
status, life expectancy and longevity. Structural acoustical attributes of music 
defining its treatment effect, are described with the comparison of aspects of 
rock music and of classical music. The article also considers the prospects for 
using of music in the treatment and prevention of age-associated diseases.

Publisher: В статье представлен обзор результатов исследований влияния музыки на 
функцию различных физиологических систем организма, включая нервную, 
сердечно-сосудистую и эндокринную, а также по эффекту воздействия музыки Моцарта 
и позднего, зрелого барокко. Особое внимание уделено сведениям о влиянии 
различных видов музыки (классической, джазовой, рок-музыки), характера и степени 
музыкальной активности (слушатели, любители, профессиональные исполнители) на 
когнитивные и поведенческие функции, состояние здоровья, продолжительность жизни 
и долголетие. Обсуждаются возможные механизмы влияния музыки на организм, 
обусловленные структурными акустическими и историко-культурологическими 
особенностями музыки разных эпох и стилей. Описаны структурные и акустические 
свойства музыки, определяющие её лечебный эффект, при сравнении с влиянием в 
этих аспектах рока и классики. Рассмотрены также перспективы применения музыки 
для лечения и профилактики ассоциированных с возрастом заболеваний.

PMID: 28509451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Adv Gerontol. 2015;28(4):741-748.

The evaluation of cognitive skills and the quality of life between Parkinson 
Disease patients and healthy aged people above 60 years old.

Akanova AA(1)(2), Kamenova SU(1), Yeshmanova AK(2), Beltenova AG(1)(2), 
Kondybayeva AM(1).

Author information:
(1)S. D. Asfendiayrov Kazakh National Medical University, Almaty, 050000, 
Kazakhstan.
(2)Innovative Research School of Gerontology and Geriatrics, Almaty, 050044; 
Kazakhstan; a.a.akanova@gmail.com.

In the 21st century mankind has made a huge progress in the health care system, 
so the average life expectancy has increased significantly compared to the 
previous centuries. The managing of healthy ageing of the population represents 
one of the main actual problems of the national health care systems around the 
world as the aged population is increasing, so, for instance, it is estimated 
that there will be over 2 billion people worldwide over the age of 65 by the 
year 2050 [36]. In particular, the age-related neurological diseases such as 
Parkinson Disease (PD) have seen a dramatic increase in international 
prevalence. Projections suggest that the neurodegenerative diseases like PD will 
surpass cancer as the leading cause of death by the year 2040 [36]; thus 
presenting an ever-growing challenge to maintain an optimal quality of life of 
the patients. In healthy ageing, cognitive skills impair naturally due to 
natural brain atrophy; in PD these processes are rather accelerated, so that, 
overwhelming clinical studies showed that dementia eventually develops in up to 
80-85 % of patients with PD [1, 39]. This article is focuses on evaluating the 
health related quality of life measurements of PD patients such as cognitive 
status, anxiety and stress levels as well as it aims to suggest a possible 
future strategy to improve the quality of life of the patients.

Publisher: В XXI в. человечество сделало огромный прогресс в системе 
здравоохранения, что, в свою очередь, привело к значительному увеличению средней 
продолжительности жизни, в частности, к 2050 г. ожидается 2 млрд людей старше 65 
лет [38]. К сожалению, выросла и международная распространённость 
нейродегенеративных заболеваний, где наиболее важным риск-фактором является 
возраст. Ожидается, что болезнь Паркинсона превзойдет рак по распространённости 
к 2040 г. [38]. Вследствие этого вопрос качественного старения является наиболее 
актуальным и открытым, к примеру, качество жизни и эффективной терапии при 
возрастных нейродегенеративных заболеваниях, таких как болезнь Паркинсона, а 
также при когнитивных ухудшениях, связанных с процессами естественного старения. 
Как показывают исследования, больные с болезнью Паркинсона имеют на 85 % выше 
риск развития деменции [1, 28, 39]. Цель работы — оценка нескольких показателей 
качества жизни, таких как когнитивный статус, уровень тревожности и стресса у 
данной категории больных, а также предложение потенциальной стратегии для 
улучшения качества их жизни.

PMID: 28509465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Adv Gerontol. 2015;28(3):409-414.

[The issue of quality of Russian cause-specific mortality statistics at old 
ages].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Danilova IA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)National Research University Higher School of Economics, Moscow, 101000, 
Russian Federation.
(2)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, 18057, Germany; 
danilova@demogr.mpg.de.

The paper presents a brief analysis on the quality of cause-specific mortality 
statistics at old ages in Russia. Two aspects are in focus: the regional 
differences in approaches for choosing the underlying cause of death and the 
comparison of Russian coding practice with the practices of some other European 
countries. The results obtained indicate that there are certain problems with 
the quality of cause-of-death coding at old ages in Russia. No unified approach 
to coding deaths as caused by «Senility» is used at a sub-national level. This 
leads to the distortion of the regional cause-specific mortality structures. 
Furthermore for many groups of causes Russian death rates are much lower than 
those in European countries. This peculiarity is caused by the specificity of 
Russian cause-of-death coding practice, which results in underestimating the 
mortality from certain causes at old ages.

Publisher: В статье дан краткий анализ качества статистики причин летальности в 
старческом возрасте в России. Внимание уделено двум аспектам: различию подходов 
к выбору первоначальной причины смерти между регионами и сравнению российской 
практики кодирования с некоторыми европейскими странами. Результаты исследования 
свидетельствуют о том, что сегодня в России наблюдается ряд проблем с качеством 
кодирования причин смерти в старческом возрасте. На субнациональном уровне 
отсутствует единый подход к кодированию смертей, вызванных «Старостью», что 
ведет к искажению региональных структур смертности. Также для многих групп 
причин российские коэффициенты смертности в самых старших возрастных группах 
существенно ниже, чем коэффициенты европейских стран. Данная особенность 
обусловлена специфичностью российской практики кодирования причин смерти, 
вследствие которой смертность от некоторых причин в старческом возрасте является 
заниженной.

PMID: 28509473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Adv Gerontol. 2015;28(3):441-448.

[Telomere length, telomerase activity, stress and aging].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Spivak IM(1)(2)(3), Mikhelson VM(1)(3), Spivak DL(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cytology, RAS, Saint-Petersburg, 194064, Russian Federation.
(2)Saint-Petersburg State University, Saint-Petersburg, 199034, Russian 
Federation.
(3)Saint-Petersburg State Polytechnical University, Saint-Petersburg, 195251, 
Russian Federation.
(4)Institute of Human Brain, RAS, Saint-Petersburg, 197376, Russian Federation; 
irina_spivak@hotmail.com.

The review is dedicated to analysis of data available at present time concerning 
possible influence of stress upon telomere lengths and telomerase activity, as 
well as various ways of counteracting it. Present-day telomerase theory of aging 
gains a new impetus, shedding light upon the influence of psychological state of 
humans and their ability to counteract stress, upon the process of aging. It 
also tends to regard telomere shortening and the decrease in the activity of 
telomerase as a marker of level of the ability to adapt to both inner and outer 
influences. Both aging and age-dependent diseases are proved to be substantially 
retarded not only by the administration of drugs, but also by psychological 
means, which forms a good way towards healthy longevity. With complete 
understanding of the impossibility to prevent or even to slow down natural 
senescence itself, these methods allow to remove causes, which accelerate 
senescence, and to increase the average human longevity.

Publisher: Обзор посвящен анализу имеющихся данных о возможном влиянии стресса 
на длину теломер и активность теломеразы и разных способов противостояния ему. 
Современная теломерная теория старения предстает в совершенно новом свете, 
объясняя механизм влияния психического состояния человека и устойчивости к 
стрессам на процесс старения, а также определяя укорочение теломер и снижение 
активности теломеразы как маркер для определения степени адаптивности организма 
к внешним и внутренним воздействиям. Накопленные к настоящему времени результаты 
показывают, что ускоренное старение, сопровождающее возраст-ассоциированные 
заболевания, может быть существенно замедлено не только медикаментозными, но и 
психологическими методами, что крайне важно для создания предпосылок к здоровому 
долголетию. При полном понимании невозможности предотвратить или даже 
существенно замедлить естественное старение, применение этих методов позволяет 
снять ускоряющие старение факторы и увеличить, тем самым, среднюю 
продолжительность активной жизни человека.

PMID: 28509478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Anal Chem. 2017 Jun 20;89(12):6455-6462. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.7b00353.
Epub  2017 Jun 9.

Analysis of Three Epoetin Alpha Products by LC and LC-MS Indicates Differences 
in Glycosylation Critical Quality Attributes, Including Sialic Acid Content.

Thomson RI(1), Gardner RA(2), Strohfeldt K(1), Fernandes DL(2), Stafford GP(3), 
Spencer DIR(2), Osborn HMI(1).

Author information:
(1)Reading School of Pharmacy, University of Reading , Reading, Berkshire RG6 
6AP, United Kingdom.
(2)Ludger, Ltd. , Culham Science Centre, Abingdon, Oxfordshire OX14 3EB, United 
Kingdom.
(3)Integrated BioSciences, School of Clinical Dentistry, University of Sheffield 
, Sheffield, S10 2TA, United Kingdom.

Erythropoietin (EPO) is one of the main therapeutics used to treat anemic 
patients, greatly improving their quality of life. In this study, biosimilars 
Binocrit and a development product, called here CIGB-EPO, were compared to the 
originator product, Eprex. All three are epoetin alpha products, reputed to have 
similar glycosylation profiles. The quality, safety, and efficacy of this 
biotherapeutic depend on the following glycosylation critical quality attributes 
(GCQAs): sialylation, N-glycolyl-neuraminic acid (Neu5Gc) content, branching, 
N-acetyl-lactosamine (LacNAc) extensions, and O-acetylation pattern. 
Reverse-phase ultra-high-pressure liquid chromatography (RP-UHPLC) analysis of 
acid-released, 1,2-diamino-4,5-methylenedioxybenzene (DMB) labeled sialic acid 
derivatives and hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography (HILIC) in 
combination with mass spectrometry (HILIC-UHPLC-MS) of procainamide (PROC) 
labeled N-glycans were the analytical tools used. An automated method for 
enzymatic release and PROC labeling was applied for the first time to the 
erythropoiesis stimulating agent (ESA) products, which facilitated novel, 
in-depth characterization, and allowed identification of precise structural 
features including the location of O-acetyl groups on sialic acid (SA) moieties. 
Samples were digested by a sialate-O-acetylesterase (NanS) to confirm the 
presence of O-acetyl groups. It was found that Eprex contained the greatest 
relative abundance of O-acetylated derivatives, Binocrit expressed the least 
Neu5Gc, and CIGB-EPO showed the greatest variety of high-mannose-phosphate 
structures. The sialylation and LacNAc extension patterns of the three ESAs were 
similar, with a maximum of four N-acetyl-neuraminic acid (Neu5Ac) moieties 
detected per glycan. Such differences in SA derivatization, particularly 
O-acetylation, could have consequences for the quality and safety of a 
biotherapeutic, as well as its efficacy.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.7b00353
PMID: 28509534


882. Sci Data. 2017 May 16;4:170070. doi: 10.1038/sdata.2017.70.

A dataset of forest biomass structure for Eurasia.

Schepaschenko D(1)(2), Shvidenko A(1)(3), Usoltsev V(4), Lakyda P(5), Luo Y(6), 
Vasylyshyn R(5), Lakyda I(5), Myklush Y(7), See L(1), McCallum I(1), Fritz S(1), 
Kraxner F(1), Obersteiner M(1).

Author information:
(1)Ecosystems Services and Management Program, International Institute for 
Applied Systems Analysis, Laxenburg A-2361, Austria.
(2)Forestry Faculty, Bauman Moscow State Technical University, Mytischi 141005, 
Russia.
(3)Institute of Forest Siberian Branch Russian Academy of Sciences, 
Akademgorodok, Krasnoyarsk 66036, Russia.
(4)Botanical Garden, Ural Division, Russian Academy of Sciences, Yekaterinburg 
620144, Russia.
(5)National University of Life and Environmental Sciences of Ukraine, Kyiv 
03041, Ukraine.
(6)Department of Ecology, School of Horticulture and Plant Protection, Yangzhou 
University, Yangzhou 225009, China.
(7)Ukrainian National Forestry University, Gen. Chuprynka str. 103, Lviv 79057, 
Ukraine.

Dataset use reported in
    doi: 10.1890/13-2089.1.

The most comprehensive dataset of in situ destructive sampling measurements of 
forest biomass in Eurasia have been compiled from a combination of experiments 
undertaken by the authors and from scientific publications. Biomass is reported 
as four components: live trees (stem, bark, branches, foliage, roots); 
understory (above- and below ground); green forest floor (above- and below 
ground); and coarse woody debris (snags, logs, dead branches of living trees and 
dead roots), consisting of 10,351 unique records of sample plots and 9,613 
sample trees from ca 1,200 experiments for the period 1930-2014 where there is 
overlap between these two datasets. The dataset also contains other forest stand 
parameters such as tree species composition, average age, tree height, growing 
stock volume, etc., when available. Such a dataset can be used for the 
development of models of biomass structure, biomass extension factors, change 
detection in biomass structure, investigations into biodiversity and species 
distribution and the biodiversity-productivity relationship, as well as the 
assessment of the carbon pool and its dynamics, among many others.

DOI: 10.1038/sdata.2017.70
PMCID: PMC5433390
PMID: 28509911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interests.


883. A Systematic Review and Economic Evaluation of Prasugrel Compared to
Clopidogrel  After PCI [Internet].

Wisløff T, Ringerike T, Klemp M.

Oslo, Norway: Knowledge Centre for the Health Services at The Norwegian 
Institute of Public Health (NIPH); 2011 Apr. Report from Norwegian Knowledge 
Centre for the Health Services (NOKC) No. 5-2011.
NIPH Systematic Reviews.

A systematic review and economic evaluation of prasugrel compared to clopidogrel 
after PCI Patients who have undergone percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) 
for coronary artery disease usually get a platelet inhibitor (e.g. clopidogrel) 
for one year after the procedure. Prasugrel is a new platelet inhibitor which is 
available for patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) who undergo PCI in 
Norway. We aimed to analyze the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of prasugrel 
compared to clopidogrel for ACS patients who have undergone PCI. This analysis 
was commissioned by the Norwegian Medicines Agency to support their decision on 
whether to give reimbursement to prasugrel as well as clopidogrel, which is 
reimbursed today. We performed a systematic review of randomised controlled 
trials (RCTs) to estimate the efficacy of prasugrel compared to clopidogrel. 
Cost-effectiveness analyses were performed in a previously developed Markov 
model (MOCCA) which simulates clinical events after a PCI is performed. In the 
model, health and costs are calculated to give the remaining life expectancy and 
lifetime costs, which again are used to calculate incremental cost-effectiveness 
of prasugrel compared to clopidogrel. Key messages: Prasugrel significantly 
reduces rates of myocardial infarction and urgent target vessel 
revascularization compared to clopidogrel in both short term (up to 1 month) and 
long term (up to 15 months). Quality of the evidence was high and moderate for 
myocardial infarction and low and moderate for urgent target vessel 
revascularization. Prasugrel significantly increases rates of bleeding events 
compared to clopidogrel in both short term and long term data. Quality of the 
evidence for this outcome was high and low, respectively. The analyses on short 
and long term effects on mortality revealed no statistically significant 
differences. Quality of the evidence for this outcome was low and moderate, 
respectively. Prasugrel is cost-effective compared to clopidogrel for ACS 
patients who have undergone PCI. Our analyses indicate however that there is 
uncertainty surrounding the cost-effectiveness result. Uncertainty related to 
efficacy on mortality and, hence also, cost-effectiveness could be reduced if 
new randomised controlled trials are performed.

Copyright ©2015 by The Norwegian Institute of Public Health (NIPH).

PMID: 28510407


884. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2017 Dec 12;73(1):39-47. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glx082.

Telomeres, Nutrition, and Longevity: Can We Really Navigate Our Aging?

Vidacek NŠ(1), Nanic L(1), Ravlic S(1), Sopta M(1), Geric M(2), Gajski G(2), 
Garaj-Vrhovac V(2), Rubelj I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Ruder Boškovic Institute, Zagreb, Croatia.
(2)Mutagenesis Unit, Institute for Medical Research and Occupational Health, 
Zagreb, Croatia.

Telomeres are dynamic chromosome-end structures that serve as guardians of 
genome stability. They are known to be one of the major determinants of aging 
and longevity in higher mammals. Studies have demonstrated a direct correlation 
between telomere length and life expectancy, stress, DNA damage, and onset of 
aging-related diseases. This review discusses the most important factors that 
influence our telomeres. Various genetic and environmental factors such as diet, 
physical activity, obesity, and stress are known to influence health and 
longevity as well as telomere dynamics. Individuals currently have the 
opportunity to modulate the dynamics of their aging and health span, monitor 
these processes, and even make future projections by following their telomere 
dynamics. As telomeres react to positive as well as negative health factors, we 
should be able to directly influence our telomere metabolism, slow their 
deterioration, and diminish our aging and perhaps extend our life and health 
span.

© The Author(s) 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glx082
PMID: 28510637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. JAMA. 2017 May 16;317(19):1976-1992. doi: 10.1001/jama.2017.4150.

Trends and Patterns of Geographic Variation in Cardiovascular Mortality Among US 
Counties, 1980-2014.

Roth GA(1), Dwyer-Lindgren L(2), Bertozzi-Villa A(2), Stubbs RW(2), Morozoff 
C(2), Naghavi M(2), Mokdad AH(2), Murray CJL(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Washington, 
Seattle2Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle.
(2)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2017 May 16;317(19):1955-1957.

IMPORTANCE: In the United States, regional variation in cardiovascular mortality 
is well-known but county-level estimates for all major cardiovascular conditions 
have not been produced.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate age-standardized mortality rates from cardiovascular 
diseases by county.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Deidentified death records from the National Center for 
Health Statistics and population counts from the US Census Bureau, the National 
Center for Health Statistics, and the Human Mortality Database from 1980 through 
2014 were used. Validated small area estimation models were used to estimate 
county-level mortality rates from all cardiovascular diseases, including 
ischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, ischemic stroke, hemorrhagic 
stroke, hypertensive heart disease, cardiomyopathy, atrial fibrillation and 
flutter, rheumatic heart disease, aortic aneurysm, peripheral arterial disease, 
endocarditis, and all other cardiovascular diseases combined.
EXPOSURES: The 3110 counties of residence.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Age-standardized cardiovascular disease mortality 
rates by county, year, sex, and cause.
RESULTS: From 1980 to 2014, cardiovascular diseases were the leading cause of 
death in the United States, although the mortality rate declined from 507.4 
deaths per 100 000 persons in 1980 to 252.7 deaths per 100 000 persons in 2014, 
a relative decline of 50.2% (95% uncertainty interval [UI], 49.5%-50.8%). In 
2014, cardiovascular diseases accounted for more than 846 000 deaths (95% UI, 
827-865 thousand deaths) and 11.7 million years of life lost (95% UI, 11.6-11.9 
million years of life lost). The gap in age-standardized cardiovascular disease 
mortality rates between counties at the 10th and 90th percentile declined 14.6% 
from 172.1 deaths per 100 000 persons in 1980 to 147.0 deaths per 100 000 
persons in 2014 (posterior probability of decline >99.9%). In 2014, the ratio 
between counties at the 90th and 10th percentile was 2.0 for ischemic heart 
disease (119.1 vs 235.7 deaths per 100 000 persons) and 1.7 for cerebrovascular 
disease (40.3 vs 68.1 deaths per 100 000 persons). For other cardiovascular 
disease causes, the ratio ranged from 1.4 (aortic aneurysm: 3.5 vs 5.1 deaths 
per 100 000 persons) to 4.2 (hypertensive heart disease: 4.3 vs 17.9 deaths per 
100 000 persons). The largest concentration of counties with high cardiovascular 
disease mortality extended from southeastern Oklahoma along the Mississippi 
River Valley to eastern Kentucky. Several cardiovascular disease conditions were 
clustered substantially outside the South, including atrial fibrillation 
(Northwest), aortic aneurysm (Midwest), and endocarditis (Mountain West and 
Alaska). The lowest cardiovascular mortality rates were found in the counties 
surrounding San Francisco, California, central Colorado, northern Nebraska, 
central Minnesota, northeastern Virginia, and southern Florida.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Substantial differences exist between county ischemic 
heart disease and stroke mortality rates. Smaller differences exist for diseases 
of the myocardium, atrial fibrillation, aortic and peripheral arterial disease, 
rheumatic heart disease, and endocarditis.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2017.4150
PMCID: PMC5598768
PMID: 28510678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: The authors 
have completed and submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure of Potential 
Conflicts of Interest and none were reported.


886. J Econ Entomol. 2017 Aug 1;110(4):1397-1403. doi: 10.1093/jee/tox102.

Fast Population Growth in Physogastry Reproduction of Luciaphorus perniciosus 
(Acari: Pygmephoridae) at Different Temperatures.

Bussaman P(1), Sa-Uth C(1), Chandrapatya A(2), Atlihan R(3), Gökçe A(4), Saska 
P(5), Chi H(6).

Author information:
(1)Biological Control Research Unit, Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of 
Technology, Mahasarakham University, Mahasarakham 44150, Thailand.
(2)Department of Entomology, Faculty of Agriculture, Kasetsart University, 50 
Ngam Wong Wan Rd., Chatuchak, Bangkok 10900, Thailand.
(3)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, University of Yuzuncu 
Yil, 65080 Van, Turkey.
(4)Department of Plant Production and Technologies, Faculty of Agricultural 
Sciences and Technologies, Ömer Halisdemir University, Nigde, Turkey.
(5)Crop Research Institute, Group Functional Diversity of Invertebrates and 
Plants in Agroecosystems, Drnovska 507, Prague 6 - Ruzyne, 161 06, Czech 
Republic.
(6)Department of Plant Production and Technologies, Faculty of Agricultural 
Sciences and Technologies, Ömer Halisdemir University, Niğde, Turkey.

Luciaphorus perniciosus Rack is one of the most serious pests of several 
cultivated mushroom species including Ganoderma lucidum (Fr.), Flammulina 
velutipes Karst., Auricularia polytricha (Mont.) Saac., Lentinus polychrous 
Lev., and Lentinus squarrosulus (Mont.) Singer in Thailand. Adult female Lu. 
perniciosus produce offspring inside their physogastric hysterosomas, with all 
embryos developing through to the adult stage while remaining in the abdomen. 
Once the abdomen ruptures, the female parent dies and the offspring consisting 
of mostly fertilized female adults along with a few male adults continue to 
emerge from the cadaver of the mother for a period of several days. This 
peculiar type of reproduction after the death of the mother is a special case 
for life table analysis and has not been discussed previously in demographic 
analyses. In this study, the life table data of this mite fed on Le. 
squarrosulus were collected at 25, 30, and 35 °C and analyzed by using the 
age-stage, two-sex life table. The standard errors of population parameters were 
estimated by using the bootstrap technique (200,000 bootstraps). At 25, 30, and 
35 °C, females started reproduction at ages 9, 5, and 3 d, respectively; the net 
reproductive rates (R0) were 192.27, 253.81, and 234.11 offspring. Due to their 
rapid development and high fecundity, the r values were as high as 0.4189, 
0.8653, and 1.0892 d-1 at 25, 30, and 35 °C, respectively. Computer projection 
indicated that the mushroom mites Lu. perniciosus is capable of a threefold 
daily increase at 35 °C.

© The Authors 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/tox102
PMID: 28510717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Bot Stud. 2014 Dec;55(1):72. doi: 10.1186/s40529-014-0072-4. Epub 2014 Oct
9.

Analysis of microsatellites in the vulnerable orchid Gastrodia flavilabella: the 
development of microsatellite markers, and cross-species amplification in 
Gastrodia.

Tsai CC(1), Wu PY(2), Kuo CC(3), Huang MC(4), Yu SK(5), Hsu TW(6), Chiang TY(7), 
Chiang YC(8).

Author information:
(1)Crop Improvement Division, Kaohsiung District Agricultural Research and 
Extension Station, Pingtung, 908, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Life Science, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, 701, 
Taiwan.
(3)Department of Nursing, Meiho University, Pingtung, 912, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Biological Sciences, National Sun Yat-sen University, 
Kaohsiung, 804, Taiwan.
(5)Taiwan Society of Plant Systematics, Kaohsiung, 804, Taiwan.
(6)Endemic Species Research Institute, Nantou, 552, Taiwan. twhsu@tesri.gov.tw.
(7)Department of Life Science, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, 701, 
Taiwan. tychiang@mail.ncku.edu.tw.
(8)Department of Biological Sciences, National Sun Yat-sen University, 
Kaohsiung, 804, Taiwan. yuchung@mail.nsysu.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND: Gastrodia flabilabella is a mycoheterotrophic orchid that obtains 
carbohydrates and nutrients from its symbiotic mycorrhizal fungi. The species is 
an endemic and vulnerable species enlisted in the "A Preliminary Red List of 
Taiwanese Vascular Plants" according to the IUCN Red List Categories and 
Criteria Version 3.1. G. flabilabella dwells the underground of broadleaf and 
coniferous forest with richness litter. Based on herbarium records, this species 
is distributed in central Taiwan. Twenty eight microsatellite loci were 
developed in G. flabilabella and were tested for cross-species amplification in 
additional taxa of G. confusoides, G. elata, and G. javanica. We estimated the 
genetic variation that is valuable for conservation management and the 
development of the molecular identification system for G. elata, a traditional 
Chinese medicine herb.
RESULTS: Microsatellite primer sets were developed from G. flabilabella using 
the modified AFLP and magnetic bead enrichment method. In total, 257 
microsatellite loci were obtained from a magnetic bead enrichment SSR library. 
Of the 28 microsatellite loci, 16 were polymorphic, in which the number of 
alleles ranged from 2 to 15, with the observed heterozygosity ranging from 0.02 
to 1.00. In total, 15, 13, and 7 of the loci were found to be interspecifically 
amplifiable to G. confusoides, G. elata, and G. javanica, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Amplifiable and transferable microsatellite loci are potentially 
useful for future studies in investigating intraspecific genetic variation, 
reconstructing phylogeographic patterns among closely related species, and 
establishing the standard operating system of molecular identification in 
Gastrodia.

DOI: 10.1186/s40529-014-0072-4
PMCID: PMC5430336
PMID: 28510952


888. Gerontology. 2017;63(5):432-434. doi: 10.1159/000477210. Epub 2017 May 17.

Aging and the Inevitable Limit to Human Life Span.

Vijg J(1), Le Bourg E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA.

There is a long-lasting debate about a natural limit to human life span, and it 
has been argued that the maximum reported age at death, which has not increased 
for ca 25 years, fluctuates around 115 years, even if some persons live beyond 
this age. We argue that the close connection of species-specific longevity with 
life history strategies explains why human life span is limited and cannot reach 
the considerably longer life spans of several other species.

© 2017 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000477210
PMID: 28511176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. J Comp Eff Res. 2017 Nov;6(8):639-648. doi: 10.2217/cer-2017-0024. Epub 2017
May  17.

Quality-adjusted life year difference in patients with predominant negative 
symptoms of schizophrenia treated with cariprazine and risperidone.

Németh B(1), Molnár A(1), Akehurst R(2), Horváth M(3), Kóczián K(3), Németh 
G(4), Götze Á(3), Vokó Z(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Syreon Research Institute, Budapest, Hungary.
(2)School of Health & Related Research, The University of Sheffield, UK.
(3)Business Development Department, Gedeon Richter Plc., Budapest, Hungary.
(4)Medical Division, Gedeon Richter Plc., Budapest, Hungary.
(5)Department of Health Policy & Health Economics, Eötvös Loránd University, 
Budapest, Hungary.

AIM: Our study aimed at estimating differences in quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) gain for patients with predominant negative symptoms of schizophrenia 
treated with cariprazine compared with risperidone.
MATERIALS & METHODS: A Markov model was built, based on the Mohr-Lenert approach 
and data derived from clinical trials, to estimate potential QALY gains of 
patients.
RESULTS: Patients had higher probability of reaching better health states 
treated with cariprazine compared with risperidone. In the model, this resulted 
in an estimated QALY gain of 0.029 per patient, after 1 year of treatment.
CONCLUSION: Cariprazine, which showed clinically meaningful improvement in the 
symptoms, and personal and social performance, can also provide significant QALY 
gain in the treatment of patients with predominant negative symptoms of 
schizophrenia compared with risperidone.

DOI: 10.2217/cer-2017-0024
PMID: 28511548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Crit Care. 2017 May 17;21(1):108. doi: 10.1186/s13054-017-1695-0.

Simvastatin for patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome: long-term 
outcomes and cost-effectiveness from a randomised controlled trial.

Agus A(1), Hulme C(2), Verghis RM(3)(4), McDowell C(3), Jackson C(3), O'Kane 
CM(4), Laffey JG(5)(6), McAuley DF(3)(4)(7).

Author information:
(1)Northern Ireland Clinical Trials Unit, Elliot Dynes Building, The Royal 
Hospitals, Grosvenor Road, Belfast, BT12 6BA, UK. ashley.agus@nictu.hscni.net.
(2)Academic Unit of Health Economics, University of Leeds, Charles Thackrah 
Building, Clarendon Road, Leeds, LS2 9LJ, UK.
(3)Northern Ireland Clinical Trials Unit, Elliot Dynes Building, The Royal 
Hospitals, Grosvenor Road, Belfast, BT12 6BA, UK.
(4)Centre for Infection and Immunity, Queen's University of Belfast, Belfast, 
BT9 7AE, UK.
(5)Department of Anaesthesia, School of Medicine, HRB Galway Clinical Research 
Facility, Clinical Sciences Institute, National University of Ireland, Galway, 
Ireland.
(6)Department of Anesthesia, Centre for Critical Care Research, Keenan Research 
Centre for Biomedical Science, St. Michael's Hospital, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Canada.
(7)Regional Intensive Care Unit, The Royal Hospitals, Grosvenor Road, Belfast, 
BT12 6BA, UK.

BACKGROUND: Simvastatin therapy for patients with acute respiratory distress 
syndrome (ARDS) has been shown to be safe and associated with minimal adverse 
effects, but it does not improve clinical outcomes. The aim of this research was 
to report on mortality and cost-effectiveness of simvastatin in patients with 
ARDS at 12 months.
METHODS: This was a cost-utility analysis alongside a multicentre, double-blind, 
randomised controlled trial carried out in the UK and Ireland. Five hundred and 
forty intubated and mechanically ventilated patients with ARDS were randomly 
assigned (1:1) to receive once-daily simvastatin (at a dose of 80 mg) or 
identical placebo tablets enterally for up to 28 days.
RESULTS: Mortality was lower in the simvastatin group (31.8%, 95% confidence 
interval (CI) 26.1-37.5) compared to the placebo group (37.3%, 95% CI 31.6-43.0) 
at 12 months, although this was not significant. Simvastatin was associated with 
statistically significant quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gain (incremental 
QALYs 0.064, 95% CI 0.002-0.127) compared to placebo. Simvastatin was also less 
costly (incremental total costs -£3601, 95% CI -8061 to 859). At a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of £20,000 per QALY, the probability of simvastatin 
being cost-effective was 99%. Sensitivity analyses indicated that the results 
were robust to changes in methodological assumptions with the probability of 
cost-effectiveness never dropping below 90%.
CONCLUSION: Simvastatin was found to be cost-effective for the treatment of 
ARDS, being associated with both a significant QALY gain and a cost saving. 
There was no significant reduction in mortality at 12 months, TRIAL 
REGISTRATION: ISRCTN, 88244364. Registered 26 November 2010.

DOI: 10.1186/s13054-017-1695-0
PMCID: PMC5434552
PMID: 28511660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Int Psychogeriatr. 2017 Aug;29(8):1297-1306. doi: 10.1017/S1041610217000618.
 Epub 2017 May 17.

Suicide in older adults: differences between the young-old, middle-old, and 
oldest old.

Koo YW(1), Kõlves K(1), De Leo D(1).

Author information:
(1)Australian Institute for Suicide Research and Prevention,National Centre of 
Excellence in Suicide Prevention,World Health Organization Collaborating Centre 
for Research and Training in Suicide Prevention,Griffith 
University,QLD,Australia.

BACKGROUND: In the limited research into suicides in older adults, they have 
been treated as a homogenous group without distinguishing between different age 
groups. This study aimed to compare differences in sociodemographic variables, 
recent life events, and mental and physical illnesses between three age groups 
within older adults who died by suicide: young-old (65-74 years), middle-old 
(75-84 years), and oldest old (85 years and over) in Queensland, Australia, 
during the years 2000-2012 (N = 978).
METHODS: The Queensland Suicide Register was utilized for the analysis. Annual 
suicide rates were calculated. Odds ratios with 95% confidence intervals and χ 2 
tests for trend were calculated to examine differences between the three groups.
RESULTS: Suicide rates were increasing with age for males, but not for females. 
Hanging and firearms were the predominant methods of suicides. However, 
suffocation by plastic bag and drowning as suicide methods increased with age, 
in contrast firearms and explosives decreased with age. Overall, psychiatric 
problems, suicidal behavior, legal and financial stressors, and relationship 
problems decreased significantly with age, meanwhile physical conditions and 
bereavement increased with age.
CONCLUSION: Suicide across older adulthood is not a homogenous phenomenon. Our 
findings showed significant differences in the prevalence of potential risk 
factors within the three different age groups considered. To prevent suicide in 
older adults would require targeting specific factors for each subgroup while 
using holistic and comprehensive approaches.

