and prehistoric samples, respectively. After controlling for age, BMI, and other 
variables, knee OA prevalence was 2.1-fold higher (95% confidence interval, 
1.5-3.1) in the postindustrial sample than in the early industrial sample. Our 
results indicate that increases in longevity and BMI are insufficient to explain 
the approximate doubling of knee OA prevalence that has occurred in the United 
States since the mid-20th century. Knee OA is thus more preventable than is 
commonly assumed, but prevention will require research on additional independent 
risk factors that either arose or have become amplified in the postindustrial 
era.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1703856114
PMCID: PMC5584421
PMID: 28808025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


875. Clin Pract. 2017 Aug 1;7(3):957. doi: 10.4081/cp.2017.957. eCollection 2017
Jun  7.

Rectus Sheath Hematoma Associated with Apixaban.

Gunasekaran K(1), Winans ARM(2), Murthi S(3), Ahmad MR(4), Kaatz S(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hospital Medicine, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, MI, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Care Services, Section of Clinical Pharmacy, 
Bassett Medical Center, Cooperstown, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Sinai Grace Hospital, Detroit, MI, USA.
(4)Division of Hospital Medicine, Geisinger Hospital, Danville, PA, USA.

Apixaban is an oral anticoagulant that directly inhibits Factor Xa and is 
indicated for the prophylaxis and treatment of deep venous thrombosis and stroke 
prevention in non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Rectus sheath hematoma is a 
rare, life-threatening complication of anticoagulant treatment. We describe a 
case of an elderly patient on apixaban for the treatment of deep venous 
thrombosis who developed severe abdominal pain during hospitalization. Computed 
tomography of the abdomen revealed left rectus sheath hematoma. Apixaban was 
discontinued and the patient was monitored for extension of the hematoma. After 
2 days she was discharged home. Outpatient computed tomography 1 month later 
showed complete resolution of the rectus sheath hematoma. We recommend that 
clinicians become aware of the potential for rare and serious bleeding 
complications of anticoagulants and identify the need for early recognition and 
prompt management.

DOI: 10.4081/cp.2017.957
PMCID: PMC5541236
PMID: 28808519


876. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2017 Dec;50(8):693-696. doi: 10.1007/s00391-017-1299-y.
Epub  2017 Aug 14.

[Anabolic and molecular interventions on muscle : Meaningful anti-aging 
strategy?].

[Article in German]

Münzer T(1).

Author information:
(1)Geriatrische Klinik St. Gallen, Rorschacherstr. 94, 9000, St. Gallen, 
Schweiz. thomas.muenzer@geriatrie-sg.ch.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-017-1299-y
PMID: 28808776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Hist Philos Life Sci. 2017 Aug 14;39(3):22. doi: 10.1007/s40656-017-0152-3.

From Pleistocene to Holocene: the prehistory of southwest Asia in evolutionary 
context.

Watkins T(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of History, Classics and Archaeology, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK. t.watkins@ed.ac.uk.
(2)School of History, Classics and Archaeology, William Robertson Wing, Old 
Medical School, Teviot Place, Edinburgh, EH8 9AG, UK. t.watkins@ed.ac.uk.

In this paper I seek to show how cultural niche construction theory offers the 
potential to extend the human evolutionary story beyond the Pleistocene, through 
the Neolithic, towards the kind of very large-scale societies in which we live 
today. The study of the human past has been compartmentalised, each compartment 
using different analytical vocabularies, so that their accounts are written in 
mutually incompatible languages. In recent years social, cognitive and cultural 
evolutionary theories, building on a growing body of archaeological evidence, 
have made substantial sense of the social and cultural evolution of the genus 
Homo. However, specialists in this field of studies have found it difficult to 
extend their kind of analysis into the Holocene human world. Within southwest 
Asia the three or four millennia of the Neolithic period at the beginning of the 
Holocene represents a pivotal point, which saw the transformation of human 
society in the emergence of the first large-scale, permanent communities, the 
domestication of plants and animals, and the establishment of effective farming 
economies. Following the Neolithic, the pace of human social, economic and 
cultural evolution continued to increase. By 5000 years ago, in parts of 
southwest Asia and northeast Africa there were very large-scale urban societies, 
and the first large-scale states (kingdoms). An extension of cultural niche 
construction theory enables us to extend the evolutionary narrative of the 
Pleistocene into the Holocene, opening the way to developing a single, 
long-term, evolutionary account of human history.

DOI: 10.1007/s40656-017-0152-3
PMCID: PMC5556129
PMID: 28808914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Adv Ther. 2017 Sep;34(9):2104-2119. doi: 10.1007/s12325-017-0600-1. Epub
2017  Aug 14.

Cost-Effectiveness of Posaconazole Tablets for Invasive Fungal Infections 
Prevention in Acute Myelogenous Leukemia or Myelodysplastic Syndrome Patients in 
Spain.

Cámara R(1), Gozalbo I(2), Jurado M(3), Sanz J(4), Aragón B(5), Grau S(6).

Author information:
(1)La Princesa Hospital, Madrid, Spain. joserafael.camara@salud.madrid.org.
(2)Outcomes10, Castellon, Spain.
(3)Virgen de las Nieves University Hospital, Granada, Spain.
(4)La Fe University Hospital, Valencia, Spain.
(5)Merck Sharp & Dome Corp, Madrid, Spain.
(6)Pharmacy Department, Del Mar Hospital, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: Posaconazole is superior to fluconazole (FLU) and itraconazole 
(ITRA) in the prevention of invasive fungal diseases (IFDs) in neutropenic 
patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome 
(MDS). A new tablet formulation of posaconazole with improved pharmacokinetic 
and pharmacodynamic properties compared to posaconazole oral solution has 
recently been approved. The objective of this study is to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of the newly developed posaconazole tablets versus FLU oral 
suspension or ITRA oral solution for preventing IFDs in high-risk neutropenic 
patients with AML or MDS and from the perspective of the Spanish National Health 
System (NHS).
METHODS: A previously validated economic model was used. The probabilities of 
experiencing an IFD, an IFD-related death or death from other causes over 
100 days were based on clinical trial data and input into a decision tree. 
Surviving patients were entered into a Markov model to calculate total costs, 
number of IFDs and number of life-years gained per patient over a lifetime 
horizon in each disease and treatment group. Two health states, alive and dead, 
were considered. Health effects were discounted using a rate of 3%. Univariate 
and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: During the first 100 days, posaconazole tablets were associated with a 
lower risk of IFDs (0.046 vs. 0.111), longer life expectancy (2.92 vs. 
2.69 years) and lower total costs (€5906.06 vs. €7847.20 per patient) over the 
patients' lifetimes compared to FLU or ITRA treatments. Thus, posaconazole 
tablets were more effective and less costly than FLU or ITRA. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis indicated that there was a 79.9% probability of 
posaconazole tablets being cost-saving compared to FLU or ITRA.
CONCLUSION: From the Spanish NHS perspective, posaconazole tablets are 
cost-effective compared to FLU or ITRA in AML or MSD patients with 
chemotherapy-induced neutropenia and at high risk for IFDs.
FUNDING: MSD Sharp & Dohme.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-017-0600-1
PMCID: PMC5599452
PMID: 28808915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Musculoskelet Surg. 2017 Dec;101(Suppl 2):197-204. doi: 
10.1007/s12306-017-0492-x. Epub 2017 Aug 14.

Radial head prosthesis: results overview.

Carità E(1), Donadelli A(2), Cugola L(2), Perazzini P(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinica San Francesco, Via Monte Ortigara 20, 37120, Verona, Italy. 
drcaritaenrico@gmail.com.
(2)Clinica San Francesco, Via Monte Ortigara 20, 37120, Verona, Italy.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: Radial head replacement is frequently used in treatment of 
radial head fractures or sequela. Impossibility to restore a correct anatomy, 
acute elbow traumatic instability and failure of osteosynthesis hardware are the 
most common indications. The authors describe their case studies and results on 
the implantation of various radial head prostheses.
MATERIALS: Between June 2005 and June 2016, 28 radial head prostheses were 
implanted in the same number of patients with an average follow-up of 49 months 
(6-104). Indications for implantation were: Mason type III and IV radial head 
fractures and post-traumatic arthritis due to failure of previous treatments. 
Monopolar prostheses were used and were press-fit implanted via Kaplan's lateral 
access and Kocher's anconeus approach to the humeroradial joint. At the 
follow-up, assessments were made of the pain, according to the visual analogic 
scale, range of motion (ROM), stability and functionality according to the Mayo 
Elbow Performance Score, presence of osteolysis and mobilization during 
radiography tests, personal satisfaction of the patients, Disabilities of the 
Arm, Shoulder and Hand and Patient-Rated Wrist Evaluation outcomes measurements.
RESULTS: At the follow-up, we recorded an average level of pain of 1.8 in 
patients under acute treatments for radial head fractures and a marked reduction 
in the remaining cases from 6.7 to 2.1. ROM was found on average to be 107° of 
flexion-extension and 159° of pronosupination. Personal satisfaction was 
good-excellent in 23 cases. There was no case of infection; removal of the 
implant was necessary in three cases due to mobilization of the stem and 
oversized implants. In six cases, bone resorption was seen at the level of the 
prosthetic collar and it was in all cases asymptomatic.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study suggest that the use of prostheses, if 
well positioned, is a valid solution in the treatment of secondary arthritis and 
fractures of the radial head with poor prognosis, with good results in the 
reduction of pain, recovery of movement and improved quality of life.

DOI: 10.1007/s12306-017-0492-x
PMCID: PMC5698399
PMID: 28808982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: No conflict exists: Author 
A declares that he has no conflict of interest. Author B declares that he has no 
conflict of interest. Author C declares that he has no conflict of interest. 
Author D declares that he has no conflict of interest. ETHICAL APPROVAL: This 
article does not contain any studies with human participants or animals 
performed by any of the authors. INFORMED CONSENT: Informed consent and privacy 
consent was obtained from all individual participants reviewed and included in 
the study.


880. Spinal Cord. 2017 Dec;55(12):1071-1078. doi: 10.1038/sc.2017.87. Epub 2017
Aug  15.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of telephone-based support for the management of 
pressure ulcers in people with spinal cord injury in India and Bangladesh.

Arora M(1)(2), Harvey LA(1)(2), Glinsky JV(1)(2), Chhabra HS(3), Hossain MS(4), 
Arumugam N(5), Bedi PK(5), Cameron ID(1)(2), Hayes AJ(6).

Author information:
(1)John Walsh Centre for Rehabilitation Research, Kolling Institute of Medical 
Research, Northern Sydney Local Health District, St Leonards, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(2)Sydney Medical School Northern, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(3)Department of Spine Service, Indian Spinal Injuries Centre, Delhi, India.
(4)Centre for Rehabilitation of the Paralysed, Savar, Bangladesh.
(5)Department of Physiotherapy, Punjabi University, Patiala, India.
(6)School of Public Health, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To determine from a societal perspective the cost-effectiveness and 
cost-utility of telephone-based support for management of pressure ulcers.
STUDY DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analysis of a randomised 
clinical trial.
SETTING: Tertiary centre in India and Bangladesh.
METHODS: An economic evaluation was conducted alongside a randomised clinical 
trial comparing 12 weeks of telephone-based support (intervention group) with 
usual care (control group). The analyses evaluated costs and health outcomes in 
terms of cm2 reduction of pressure ulcers size and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) gained. All costs were in Indian Rupees (INR) and then converted to US 
dollars (USD).
RESULTS: The mean (95% confidence interval) between-group difference for the 
reduction in size of pressure ulcers was 0.53 (-3.12 to 4.32) cm2, favouring the 
intervention group. The corresponding QALYs were 0.027 (0.004-0.051), favouring 
the intervention group. The mean total cost per participant in the intervention 
group was INR 43 781 (USD 2460) compared to INR 42 561 (USD 2391) for the 
control group. The per participant cost of delivering the intervention was INR 
2110 (USD 119). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was INR 2306 (USD 130) 
per additional cm2 reduction in the size of the pressure ulcer and INR 44 915 
(USD 2523) per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: In terms of QALYs, telephone-based support to help people manage 
pressure ulcers at home provides good value for money and has an 87% probability 
of being cost-effective, based on 3 times gross domestic product. Sensitivity 
analyses were performed using the overall cost data with and without 
productivity costs, and did not alter this conclusion.

DOI: 10.1038/sc.2017.87
PMID: 28809389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Acta Chir Orthop Traumatol Cech. 2017;84(2):106-113.

[The Use of BTB Allograft in Revision Reconstruction of the Anterior Cruciate 
Ligament and Its Success Rate in Terms of Subjective Patient Satisfaction].

[Article in Czech]

Sklenský J(1), Vališ P, Repko M, Rouchal M, Maršálek M, Hrůzová D.

Author information:
(1)Ortopedická klinika Fakultní nemocnice Brno a Lékařské fakulty Masarykovy 
univerzity Brno.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY A retrospective evaluation of the success rate of revision 
ACL reconstruction performed using BTB allograft in terms of the life expectancy 
of the procedure up to and over five years from surgery. MATERIAL AND METHODS 
Over a ten-year period, from 2003 to 2013, we performed 47 revision ACL 
reconstruction surgeries. The majority of the primary ACL reconstructions using 
BTB autografts were not performed at our site. The group observed included 16 
women (34%) and 31 men (66%). The women were aged between 25 and 48 years, the 
median age being 32.5, and the men were aged between 25 and 46 years with the 
median age of 35. We were able to make a full pre- and post-operative evaluation 
of 22 out of 47 patients who underwent secondary ACL reconstruction surgery 
using a cadaverous BTB graft. This evaluation included an objective clinical 
testing and a subjective evaluation of the function and stability of the knee 
joint using the Tegner activity score, Lysholm score, and a modified Cincinatti 
score. The set of 22 patients was split into two groups: up to five years from 
revision surgery and over five years from the procedure. RESULTS In the group of 
patients who were fully evaluated within five years of revision reconstruction 
there was an average improvement of 16.4 points on the Cincinatti score, 19.9 
points on the Lysholm score, and an upward movement averaging 1.5 levels on the 
Tegner activity score. In the over five years from surgery category the average 
improvement was 15.5, 15.9, and 1.2 levels upward movement, respectively. We 
were unable to prove a significantly increased level of failure in BTB 
allografts after five and more years from revision ACL reconstruction. 
DISCUSSION The two strongest factors affecting the life expectancy of ACL 
replacements are the age of the patient and the type of the graft used, 
allograft or autograft. The most at risk, in terms of how long the graft will 
last, is the age group of 10 - 19 years old. With each ten-year increase in age 
the risk of rupture is reduced more-or-less by half. Patients with ACL allograft 
replacement show a fourfold increased risk of the graft rupturing. The younger 
and more active the patient requiring revision ACL reconstruction is, the 
greater the need for an autograft. If an allograft has been used in revision 
reconstruction on an athlete, a great emphasis must be placed on the necessity 
of delaying the return to previous sporting activities for at least nine months. 
CONCLUSIONS The mid-term results of revision ACL reconstruction show that, 
subject to reasonable levels of stress, a correctly performed procedure using 
cadaverous BTB grafts is a good option to restore the stability of the knee 
joint over a period of five years and more from surgery. An increased incidence 
of reruptures or greater insufficiency of the cadaverous graft were not evident 
in our group after five and more years. The risk of cadaverous grafts failure is 
just like in the autologous replacement directly linked to the return to sport 
interval, frequency and intensity of stress to which the graft is subjected over 
a long period of time. The risk of rerupture is always higher in allograft 
reconstructions that have already stood in need of restructuring for a longer 
period of time. For this reason, a delay in returning to sports activity must be 
emphasized. As a rule, we recommend a return to full athletic training only 
after nine months to a year after surgery. Key words: anterior cruciate 
ligament, revision ACL reconstruction, tendon graft insufficiency, BTB autograft 
insufficiency, BTB allograft of the ACL, cadaverous BTB graft, ACL graft 
rerupture.

PMID: 28809627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Acta Chir Orthop Traumatol Cech. 2017;84(3):202-207.

[Treatment of Displaced Patellar Fractures with Multiple Circular Cerclage].

[Article in Czech]

Tříska Z(1), Urban J, Látal P, Kloub M.

Author information:
(1)Oddělení úrazové chirurgie Nemocnice České Budějovice, a.s.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY The study aims to conduct a mid-term evaluation of results 
of the treatment of patellar fractures with multiple circular cerclage. MATERIAL 
AND METHODS The retrospective clinical study with its own group of patients who 
underwent surgery in our centre in the period from 2008 to 2014. The study 
included a total of 29 patients with displaced patellar fractures treated with 
multiple circular cerclage. The available radiographic documentation was 
assessed and the quality of perioperative reposition, fracture healing, loss of 
reposition and potential failure of osteosynthesis material was considered. 
During the clinical examination, the range of motion (ROM) of the operated knee 
was measured. The current pain was evaluated on the Visual Analogue Scale for 
Pain (VAS). For evaluation of functional outcomes, the KOOS and LEFS scoring 
systems were used. RESULTS A total of 27 fractures (93.1%) healed after a mean 
period of 10.3 weeks after the primary surgery. In 23 cases two circular loops 
and in six cases 3 loops were used. The mean follow-up period was 66.6 months 
(range 22-100). The mean duration of the surgery was 59.6 minutes with the mean 
length of the incision of 11.8 cm (range 9-15). The quality of reposition was 
evaluated as exact in 23 patients, as adequate in six patients. The mean 
extension and flexion was 0.2° and 135°, respectively. The individual mean KOOS 
scores were the following: pain 75.0, symptom 74.5, knee function in daily 
living 76.7, knee function in sports and recreational activities 48.1, quality 
of life 57.8. The mean LEFS score was 68.7. The mean VAS score was 2.4. 
Extraction of osteosynthesis material was done in a total of seventeen cases 
(58.6%) at a mean of 10 months after osteosynthesis (range 5-14). In altogether 
five cases (17.2%) the loss of reposition occurred. In two patients 
pseudoarthrosis developed. Osteosynthesis material failure was reported in two 
cases (6.9%). DISCUSSION In our study population, by using the technique of 
multiple circular cerclage 27 fractures (93.1%) healed. In two cases the 
fractures failed to heal and pseudoarthrosis developed. In one case it was due 
to non-adherence to the postoperative regimen by the patient. According to the 
literature, 15-30% of patients suffer from functional limitations. In our study 
population the mean values of extension and flexion were 0.2° and 135°, 
respectively. Compared to the group of 17 patellar fractures managed with the 
modified Pyrford technique where the mean extension and flexion was 0.5° and 
131.1°, respectively. According to the data referred to in literature, in up to 
80 % cases post-operative pain of anterior knee is reported. In our population 
the current pain was assessed on the VAS and the mean value of 2.4 was 
ascertained in comparison to the set of different ORIF surgical procedures and a 
partial patellectomy, when the final mean VAS score was 2.8. In our population 
the values of LEFS and KOOS scores are comparable to the values of populations 
where different surgical techniques were assessed. The post-operative loss of 
reposition in up to 20% cases is reported by the literature, compared to our 
population, where it was recorded in a total of 5 cases (17.2%). CONCLUSIONS 
Multiple circular cerclage is a simple and inexpensive surgical method for 
treating displaced patellar fractures. It can be used for majority of types of 
fracture, including comminuted fractures, in which, however, there is a slightly 
higher risk of loss of reposition. The functional outcomes and the number of 
complications are comparable to other surgical techniques used. Key words: 
displaced patellar fracture, multiple circular cerclage, functional outcomes.

PMID: 28809640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. J Vis Exp. 2017 Aug 8;(126):56251. doi: 10.3791/56251.

RGB and Spectral Root Imaging for Plant Phenotyping and Physiological Research: 
Experimental Setup and Imaging Protocols.

Bodner G(1), Alsalem M(2), Nakhforoosh A(2), Arnold T(3), Leitner D(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Agronomy, Department of Crop Sciences, University of Natural 
Resources and Life Sciences; gernot.bodner@boku.ac.at.
(2)Division of Agronomy, Department of Crop Sciences, University of Natural 
Resources and Life Sciences.
(3)Carinthian Tech Research AG, High Tech Campus Villach.
(4)Computational Science Center, University of Vienna; Simulationswerkstatt.

Better understanding of plant root dynamics is essential to improve resource use 
efficiency of agricultural systems and increase the resistance of crop cultivars 
against environmental stresses. An experimental protocol is presented for RGB 
and hyperspectral imaging of root systems. The approach uses rhizoboxes where 
plants grow in natural soil over a longer time to observe fully developed root 
systems. Experimental settings are exemplified for assessing rhizobox plants 
under water stress and studying the role of roots. An RGB imaging setup is 
described for cheap and quick quantification of root development over time. 
Hyperspectral imaging improves root segmentation from the soil background 
compared to RGB color based thresholding. The particular strength of 
hyperspectral imaging is the acquisition of chemometric information on the 
root-soil system for functional understanding. This is demonstrated with high 
resolution water content mapping. Spectral imaging however is more complex in 
image acquisition, processing and analysis compared to the RGB approach. A 
combination of both methods can optimize a comprehensive assessment of the root 
system. Application examples integrating root and aboveground traits are given 
for the context of plant phenotyping and plant physiological research. Further 
improvement of root imaging can be obtained by optimizing RGB image quality with 
better illumination using different light sources and by extension of image 
analysis methods to infer on root zone properties from spectral data.

DOI: 10.3791/56251
PMCID: PMC5614140
PMID: 28809835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. PLoS One. 2017 Aug 15;12(8):e0182209. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0182209. 
eCollection 2017.

Monitoring health and reproductive status of olms (Proteus anguinus) by 
ultrasound.

Holtze S(1), Lukač M(2), Cizelj I(3), Mutschmann F(4), Szentiks CA(5), Jelić 
D(6), Hermes R(1), Göritz F(1), Braude S(7), Hildebrandt TB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Reproduction Management, Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife 
Research, Berlin, Germany.
(2)Department of Poultry Diseases with Clinic, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
University of Zagreb, Zagreb, Croatia.
(3)Zagreb Zoo, Zagreb, Croatia.
(4)Exomed - Institut für veterinärmedizinische Betreuung niederer Wirbeltiere 
und Exoten GbR, Berlin, Germany.
(5)Department of Wildlife Diseases, Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife 
Research, Berlin, Germany.
(6)Croatian Institute for Biodiversity, Zagreb, Croatia.
(7)Department of Biology, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, 
Missouri, United States of America.

The olm (Proteus anguinus) is a troglomorphic, neotenous amphibian with 
extraordinary life expectancy and unique adaptations that deserve further 
investigation. A low reproductive rate and habitat decline render it threatened 
by extinction. Establishing captive populations for maintenance and artificial 
breeding may one day become crucial to the species. Longitudinal, in-vivo 
assessment of inner organs is invaluable to our understanding of reproductive 
physiology, health, and behavior. Using ultrasound, we measured heart rate and 
assessed health and reproductive status of 13 captive olms at Zagreb Zoo. Heart 
rate averaged 42.9 ± 4.6 bpm (32-55 bpm), as determined via pulsed-wave Doppler 
at 4-12 MHz. By using frequencies of up to 70 MHz (ultrasound biomicroscopy), 
inner organs were visualized in detail. Assessment of the gastrointestinal tract 
provided insights into feeding status and digestive processes. Several 
subclinical pathologies were detected, including biliary sludge, subcutaneous 
edema, ascites, and skin lesions. Detection of skin lesions by ultrasound was 
more sensitive than visual adspection. Olms with ultrasonographically detected 
skin lesions tested positive for Saprolegnia and were treated. Three of the four 
affected individuals survived and subsequently tested negative for Saprolegnia. 
Sex was reliably determined; only one individual proved male. The reason for 
this extreme female-biased sex-ratio remains unknown. However, as most of the 
individuals were flushed from the caves by strong currents in spring, the sample 
may not be representative of natural populations. In female olms, different 
stages of ovarian follicular development were observed with diameters ranging 
between 0.1 and 1.1 mm. Results were confirmed by comparing ultrasound, 
necropsy, and histological findings of one dead specimen. In summary, ultrasound 
proved a valuable tool to support conservation and captive breeding programs by 
allowing non-invasive assessment of physiological parameters, clinical 
condition, and reproductive status in olms.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0182209
PMCID: PMC5557490
PMID: 28809953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


885. Lakartidningen. 2017 Aug 15;114:EMCS.

[Subcutaneous ICD is a good option in certain cases].

[Article in Swedish]

Wennström L(1), Magnusson P(1).

Author information:
(1)Uppsala Universitet - Centrum för forskning och utveckling, Region 
Gävleborg/Gävle Uppsala, Sweden Uppsala Universitet - Centrum för forskning och 
utveckling, Region Gävleborg/Gävle Uppsala, Sweden.

PMID: 28810050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Development. 2017 Aug 15;144(16):2961-2968. doi: 10.1242/dev.148940.

Myosin II is not required for Drosophila tracheal branch elongation and cell 
intercalation.

Ochoa-Espinosa A(1), Harmansa S(2), Caussinus E(3), Affolter M(1).

Author information:
(1)Biozentrum, University of Basel, Klingelbergstr. 50/70, 4056 Basel, 
Switzerland amanda.ochoa@unibas.ch markus.affolter@unibas.ch.
(2)Biozentrum, University of Basel, Klingelbergstr. 50/70, 4056 Basel, 
Switzerland.
(3)Institute of Molecular Life Sciences (IMLS), University of Zurich, 8057 
Zurich, Switzerland.

The Drosophila tracheal system consists of an interconnected network of 
monolayered epithelial tubes that ensures oxygen transport in the larval and 
adult body. During tracheal dorsal branch (DB) development, individual DBs 
elongate as a cluster of cells, led by tip cells at the front and trailing cells 
in the rear. Branch elongation is accompanied by extensive cell intercalation 
and cell lengthening of the trailing stalk cells. Although cell intercalation is 
governed by Myosin II (MyoII)-dependent forces during tissue elongation in the 
Drosophila embryo that lead to germ-band extension, it remained unclear whether 
MyoII plays a similar active role during tracheal branch elongation and 
intercalation. Here, we have used a nanobody-based approach to selectively knock 
down MyoII in tracheal cells. Our data show that, despite the depletion of MyoII 
function, tip cell migration and stalk cell intercalation (SCI) proceed at a 
normal rate. This confirms a model in which DB elongation and SCI in the trachea 
occur as a consequence of tip cell migration, which produces the necessary 
forces for the branching process.

© 2017. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.

DOI: 10.1242/dev.148940
PMID: 28811312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare no 
competing or financial interests.


887. Sci Rep. 2017 Aug 15;7(1):8189. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-08633-3.

High-performance therapeutic quercetin-doped adhesive for adhesive-dentin 
interfaces.

Yang H(1), Li K(1), Yan H(1), Liu S(1), Wang Y(2), Huang C(3).

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory for Oral Biomedical Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, People's Republic of China.
(2)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory for Oral Biomedical Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, People's Republic of China. 
wangyake@whu.edu.cn.
(3)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory for Oral Biomedical Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, People's Republic of China. 
huangcui@whu.edu.cn.

Almost half of dental restorations have failed in less than 10 years, and 
approximately 60% of practice time has been consumed to replace these dental 
restorations. As such, contemporary dentin adhesives should be modified to treat 
secondary caries and prevent the degradation of adhesive-dentin interfaces. To 
achieve this goal, we developed a versatile therapeutic adhesive in the present 
study by incorporating quercetin, which is a naturally derived plant extract, 
into a commercial adhesive at three concentrations (100, 500 and 1000 µg/mL). An 
unmodified adhesive served as a control. The antibacterial ability on 
Streptococcus mutans biofilm, conversion degree, microtensile bond strength, 
failure modes, in situ zymography, nanoleakage expression and cytotoxicity of 
quercetin-doped adhesive were comprehensively evaluated. Results showed that the 
quercetin-doped adhesive (500 µg/mL) preserved its bonding properties against 
collagenase ageing and inhibited the growth of S. mutans biofilm. Efficient 
bonding interface sealing ability, matrix metalloproteinase inhibition and 
acceptable biocompatibility were also achieved. Thus, a simple, safe and 
workable strategy was successfully developed to produce therapeutic adhesives 
for the extension of the service life of adhesive restorations.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-08633-3
PMCID: PMC5558009
PMID: 28811592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


888. Int J Health Policy Manag. 2017 May 1;6(5):267-272. doi: 
10.15171/ijhpm.2016.131.

A Comparison of Iran and UK EQ-5D-3L Value Sets Based on Visual Analogue Scale.

Kiadaliri AA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Orthopaedics, Department of Clinical 
Sciences-Lund, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(2)Health Services Management Research Center, Institute for Futures Studies in 
Health, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Preference weights for EQ-5D-3L based on visual analogue scale (VAS) 
has recently been developed in Iran. The aim of the current study was to compare 
performance of this value set against the UK VAS-based value set.
METHODS: The mean scores for all possible 243 health states were compared using 
Student t test. Absolute agreement and consistency were investigated using 
concordance correlation coefficient (CCC) and Bland-Altman plot. Health gains 
for 29 403 possible transitions between pairs of EQ-5D-3L health states were 
compared. Responsiveness to change and discriminative ability across subgroups 
of health transitions were assessed.
RESULTS: The mean EQ-5D-3L scores were similar for two value sets (mean = 0.31, 
P = 1.00). For 36% of health states, the absolute differences were greater than 
0.10. There were three pairwise logical inconsistencies in the Iranian value 
set. The Iranian scores were lower (higher) for severe (mild) health states than 
the United Kingdom. The CCC (95% CI) was 0.85 (0.81 to 0.88) and Bland-Altman 
plot showed good agreement. The mean health gain for all possible transitions 
predicted by the Iranian value set was higher (0.22 vs. 0.20, P < .001) and two 
value sets predicted opposite transitions in 15% of transitions. The 
responsiveness of these two value sets were similar with lower discriminative 
ability for Iranian value set.
CONCLUSION: The Iranian value set attribute lower values to most severe health 
states and higher values to mild health states compared with the UK value set. 
Such systematic differences might translate into discrepant health gains and 
cost-effectiveness which should be taking into account for informed 
decision-making.

© 2017 The Author(s); Published by Kerman University of Medical Sciences. This 
is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons 
Attribution License (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0), which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original work is properly cited.

DOI: 10.15171/ijhpm.2016.131
PMCID: PMC5417148
PMID: 28812814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Int J Health Policy Manag. 2017 Jul 1;6(7):383-394. doi: 
10.15171/ijhpm.2016.141.

Cost-Effectiveness of Rural Incentive Packages for Graduating Medical Students 
in Lao PDR.

Keuffell E(1), Jaskiewicz W(2), Theppanya K(3), Tulenko K(2).

Author information:
(1)Health Finance & Access Initiative, Bryn Mawr, PA, USA.
(2)IntraHealth International, Washington, DC, USA.
(3)Ministry of Health (Lao PDR), Vientiane, Lao PDR.

BACKGROUND: The dearth of health workers in rural settings in Lao People's 
Democratic Republic (PDR) and other developing countries limits healthcare 
access and outcomes. In evaluating non-wage financial incentive packages as a 
potential policy option to attract health workers to rural settings, 
understanding the expected costs and effects of the various programs ex ante can 
assist policy-makers in selecting the optimal incentive package.
METHODS: We use discrete choice experiments (DCEs), costing analyses and recent 
empirical results linking health worker density and health outcomes to estimate 
the future location decisions of physicians and determine the cost-effectiveness 
of 15 voluntary incentives packages for new physicians in Lao PDR. Our data 
sources include a DCE survey completed by medical students (n = 329) in May 2011 
and secondary cost, economic and health data. Mixed logit regressions provide 
the basis for estimating how each incentive package influences rural versus 
urban location choice over time. We estimate the expected rural density of 
physicians and the cost-effectiveness of 15 separate incentive packages from a 
societal perspective. In order to generate the cost-effectiveness ratios we 
relied on the rural uptake probabilities inferred from the DCEs, the costing 
data and prior World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that relate health 
outcomes to health worker density.
RESULTS: Relative to no program, the optimal voluntary incentive package would 
increase rural physician density by 15% by 2016 and 65% by 2041. After 
incorporating anticipated health effects, seven (three) of the 15 incentive 
packages have anticipated average cost-effectiveness ratio less than the WHO 
threshold (three times gross domestic product [GDP] per capita) over a 5-year 
(30 year) period. The optimal package's incremental cost-effectiveness ratio is 
$1454/QALY (quality-adjusted life year) over 5 years and $2380/QALY over 30 
years. Capital intensive components, such as housing or facility improvement, 
are not efficient.
CONCLUSION: Conditional on using voluntary incentives, Lao PDR should emphasize 
non-capital intensive options such as advanced career promotion, transport 
subsidies and housing allowances to improve physician distribution and rural 
health outcomes in a cost-effective manner. Other countries considering 
voluntary incentive programs can implement health worker/trainee DCEs and 
costing surveys to determine which incentive bundles improve rural uptake most 
efficiently but should be aware of methodological caveats.

© 2017 The Author(s); Published by Kerman University of Medical Sciences. This 
is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons 
Attribution License (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0), which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original work is properly cited.

DOI: 10.15171/ijhpm.2016.141
PMCID: PMC5505108
PMID: 28812834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. PLoS One. 2017 Aug 15;12(8):e0182960. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0182960. 
eCollection 2017.

Meat consumption reduction in Italian regions: Health co-benefits and decreases 
in GHG emissions.

Farchi S(1), De Sario M(1), Lapucci E(1), Davoli M(1), Michelozzi P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology of Regional Health Service, ASL Roma 1, Lazio 
Region, Rome, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Animal agriculture has exponentially grown in recent decades in 
response to the rise in global demand for meat, even in countries like Italy 
that traditionally eat a Mediterranean, plant-based diet. Globalization related 
dietary changes are contributing to the epidemic of non-communicable diseases 
and to the global climate crisis, and are associated with huge carbon and water 
footprints. The objective of the study is to assess inequalities in health 
impacts and in attributable greenhouse gases-GHG emissions in Italy by 
hypothesizing different scenarios of reduction in red and processed meat 
consumption towards healthier consumption patterns more compliant with the 
recommendations of the Mediterranean food pyramid.
METHODS: We used demographic and food consumption patterns from national surveys 
and risk relationships between meat intake and cardiovascular and colorectal 
cancer mortality from IARC and other meta-analyses. From the baseline data (year 
2005-2006, average 406 gr/week beef and 245 gr/week processed meat), we 
considered hypothetical meat reduction scenarios according to international 
dietary guidelines such as the Mediterranean pyramid targets. For each 
geographical area (Northwest, Northeast, Centre, and South) and gender, we 
calculated the number of avoidable deaths from colorectal cancer, and 
cardiovascular disease among the adult population. Moreover, years of life 
gained by the adult population from 2012 to 2030 and changes in life expectancy 
of the 2012 birth cohort were quantified using gender-specific life tables. GHG 
emission reductions under Mediterranean scenario were estimated only for beef by 
applying the Global Warming Potential (GWP) coefficient to total consumption and 
to a low carbon food substitution in adult diet.
RESULTS: The deaths avoidable (as percentage change compared to baseline) 
according to the three reduction scenarios for beef consumption were between 
2.3% and 4.5% for colorectal cancer, and between 2.1% and 4.0% for 
cardiovascular disease; higher benefits would be observed in Northwestern areas 
and among males. In parallel, 5% and 6.4% of colorectal cancer and CVD deaths 
would be avoided if the Italian population ate the advised quantity of processed 
meat. Life table analysis suggests that the scenario that is fully compliant 
with the Mediterranean diet model would save 5 million years of life lost 
prematurely among men and women over the next 18 years and would increase 
average life expectancy of future generations by over 7 months. Considering the 
environmental impact, emissions associated with the actual total intake of beef 
range from 12,900 to 21,800 Gg CO2 eq; emissions saved according to the 
Mediterranean scenario are in the range 8000-14000 Gg CO2 eq per year. The per 
capita reduction is 263 KgCO2eq/year/person with higher reductions in 
Northwestern and Central areas.
CONCLUSIONS: In Italy, scenarios for reducing beef consumption are consistent 
with significant health and environmental co-benefits on current and future 
generations. Results support introducing policies to promote healthier behavior 
towards red and processed meat in the adult population within an overall 
balanced and healthy dietary pattern. Interventions should address gender, 
vulnerable population groups, and geographical differences in order to be more 
effective.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0182960
PMCID: PMC5557600
PMID: 28813467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


891. Oncol Res Treat. 2017;40(9):484-489. doi: 10.1159/000477096. Epub 2017 Aug
17.

Primary Treatment Choice Over Time and Relative Survival of Prostate Cancer 
Patients: Influence of Age, Grade, and Stage.

Matthes KL, Limam M, Dehler S, Korol D, Rohrmann S.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to assess associations of stage, grade, 
and age with the primary treatment of prostate cancer (PCa) patients comparing 
the incidence years 2000/2001 and 2012/2013, and to estimate the relative 
survival (RS) for patients diagnosed in 2000/2001.
METHODS: We included 1,541 men diagnosed in 2000/2001 and 1,605 men diagnosed in 
2012/2013. Multiple imputation methods were applied to missing data for stage 
and grade. Multinomial logistic regression analyses were used to explore the 
associations of stage, grade, and age with treatment. RS was estimated using the 
Ederer II approach.
RESULTS: In 2000/2001, older patients were more likely to choose active 
surveillance (AS)/watchful waiting (WW) or to receive androgen deprivation 
therapy (ADT) compared to surgery; in 2012/2013, this association was only 
observed for ADT but not for AS/WW. In 2000/2001, the overall 1-, 5-, and 
10-year RS was approximately 99, 94, and 92%, respectively. RS was highest for 
patients who underwent surgical procedures or radiotherapy and considerably 
lower for patients with ADT.
CONCLUSION: Our data show that today AS/WW is an option not only for patients 
with a life expectancy of < 10 years but also for younger men with localized 
PCa. PCa patients have a good RS if the cancer is diagnosed at an early stage.

© 2017 S. Karger GmbH, Freiburg.

DOI: 10.1159/000477096
PMID: 28813713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. IEEE Int Conf Rehabil Robot. 2017 Jul;2017:726-733. doi: 
10.1109/ICORR.2017.8009334.

The eWrist - A wearable wrist exoskeleton with sEMG-based force control for 
stroke rehabilitation.

Lambelet C, Lyu M, Woolley D, Gassert R, Wenderoth N.

Chronic wrist impairment is frequent following stroke and negatively impacts 
everyday life. Rehabilitation of the dysfunctional limb is possible but requires 
extensive training and motivation. Wearable training devices might offer new 
opportunities for rehabilitation. However, few devices are available to train 
wrist extension even though this movement is highly relevant for many upper limb 
activities of daily living. As a proof of concept, we developed the eWrist, a 
wearable one degree-of-freedom powered exoskeleton which supports wrist 
extension training. Conceptually one might think of an electric bike which 
provides mechanical support only when the rider moves the pedals, i.e. it 
enhances motor activity but does not replace it. Stroke patients may not have 
the ability to produce overt movements, but they might still be able to produce 
weak muscle activation that can be measured via surface electromyography (sEMG). 
By combining force and sEMG-based control in an assist-as-needed support 
strategy, we aim at providing a training device which enhances activity of the 
wrist extensor muscles in the context of daily life activities, thereby, driving 
cortical reorganization and recovery. Preliminary results show that the 
integration of sEMG signals in the control strategy allow for adjustable 
assistance with respect to a proxy measurement of corticomotor drive.

DOI: 10.1109/ICORR.2017.8009334
PMID: 28813906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. IEEE Int Conf Rehabil Robot. 2017 Jul;2017:1203-1210. doi: 
10.1109/ICORR.2017.8009413.

EMG pattern classification to control a hand orthosis for functional grasp 
assistance after stroke.

Meeker C, Park S, Bishop L, Stein J, Ciocarlie M.

Wearable orthoses can function both as assistive devices, which allow the user 
to live independently, and as rehabilitation devices, which allow the user to 
regain use of an impaired limb. To be fully wearable, such devices must have 
intuitive controls, and to improve quality of life, the device should enable the 
user to perform Activities of Daily Living. In this context, we explore the 
feasibility of using electromyography (EMG) signals to control a wearable 
exotendon device to enable pick and place tasks. We use an easy to don, 
commodity forearm EMG band with 8 sensors to create an EMG pattern 
classification control for an exotendon device. With this control, we are able 
to detect a user's intent to open, and can thus enable extension and pick and 
place tasks. In experiments with stroke survivors, we explore the accuracy of 
this control in both non-functional and functional tasks. Our results support 
the feasibility of developing wearable devices with intuitive controls which 
provide a functional context for rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1109/ICORR.2017.8009413
PMID: 28813985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. BMC Geriatr. 2017 Aug 15;17(1):182. doi: 10.1186/s12877-017-0555-8.

Survival analysis of increases in care needs associated with dementia and living 
alone among older long-term care service users in Japan.

Lin HR(1)(2), Otsubo T(2), Imanaka Y(3).

Author information:
(1)The Japan Foundation for Aging and Health, 4F, 1-1 Aza Gengoyama, Oaza 
Morioka, Higashiura-cho, Chita-gun, Aichi, 470-2101, Japan.
(2)Department of Healthcare Economics and Quality Management, Graduate School of 
Medicine, Kyoto University, Yoshida Konoe-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, 606-8501, Japan.
(3)Department of Healthcare Economics and Quality Management, Graduate School of 
Medicine, Kyoto University, Yoshida Konoe-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, 606-8501, Japan. 
imanaka-y@umin.net.

BACKGROUND: Japan is known for its long life expectancy and rapidly aging 
society that there are various demands of older adults need to be fulfilled 
with, and one of them is long-term care needs. Therefore, Japan implemented the 
Long-Term Care Insurance in year 2000 for citizens who are above 65-year old and 
citizens who are above 40-year old in needs of long-term care services. This 
study was undertaken to longitudinally examine the influence of dementia and 
living alone on care needs increases among older long-term care insurance 
service users in Japan.
METHODS: Long-term care insurance claims data were used to identify enrollees 
who applied for long-term care services between October 2010 and September 2011, 
and subjects were tracked until March 2015. A Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was 
conducted to examine increases in care needs over time in months. Cox regression 
models were used to examine the effects of dementia and living alone on care 
needs increases.
RESULTS: The cumulative survival rates before care needs increased over the 
4.5-year observation period were 17.6% in the dementia group and 31.9% in the 
non-dementia group. After adjusting for age, sex, care needs level, and status 
of living alone, the risk of care needs increases was found to be 1.5 times 
higher in the dementia group. Living alone was not a significant risk factor of 
care needs increases, but people with dementia who lived alone had a higher risk 
of care needs increases than those without dementia.
CONCLUSION: Dementia, older age, the female sex, and lower care needs levels 
were associated with a higher risk of care needs increases over the study 
period. Among these variables, dementia had the strongest impact on care needs 
increases, especially in persons who lived alone.

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-017-0555-8
PMCID: PMC5559793
PMID: 28814271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: This 
study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Kyoto University Graduate School 
of Medicine (R0438). CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: None. COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


895. Inj Prev. 2018 Aug;24(4):262-266. doi: 10.1136/injuryprev-2017-042340. Epub
2017  Aug 16.

The impact of urban speed reduction programmes on health system cost and 
utilities.

Mohit B(1), Rosen Z(2), Muennig PA(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health (CEVR), Tufts Medical 
Center, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York City, New 
York, USA.

BACKGROUND: Vehicle speed changes impact the probability of injuring a 
pedestrian in ways that differ from the way that it impacts the probability of a 
collision or of death. Therefore, return on investment in speed reduction 
programmes has complex and unpredictable manifests. The objective of this study 
is to analyse the impact of motor vehicle speed reduction on the 
collision-related morbidity and mortality rates of urban pedestrians.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We created a simple way to estimate the public health 
impacts of traffic speed changes using a Markov model. Our outcome measures 
include the cost of injury, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained and 
probability of death and injury due to a road traffic collision. Our two-way 
sensitivity analysis of speed, both before the implementation of a speed 
reduction programme and after, shows that, due to key differences in the 
probability of injury compared with the probability of death, speed reduction 
programmes may decrease the probability of death while leaving the probability 
of injury unchanged. The net result of this difference may lead to an increase 
in injury costs due to the implementation of a speed reduction programme. We 
find that even small investments in speed reductions have the potential to 
produce gains in QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: Our reported costs, effects and incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios may assist urban governments and stakeholders to rethink the value of 
local traffic calming programmes and to implement speed limits that would shift 
the trade-off to become between minor injuries and no injuries, rather than 
severe injuries and fatalities.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/injuryprev-2017-042340
PMID: 28814569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


896. Laryngoscope. 2018 Jan;128(1):43-51. doi: 10.1002/lary.26783. Epub 2017 Aug
16.

The value of frontal sinusotomy for chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps-A 
cost utility analysis.

Scangas GA(1)(2), Lehmann AE(1)(2), Remenschneider AK(1)(2), Su BM(3), Shrime 
MG(1)(4)(2), Metson R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(3)School of Medicine, University of California-San Francisco, San Francisco, 
California, U.S.A.
(4)Program in Global Surgery and Social Change, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts.

OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: The number of surgical procedures performed for frontal 
sinusitis and the associated costs have increased dramatically over the past 
decade. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
endoscopic frontal sinusotomy (EFS) in patients with chronic rhinosinusitis with 
nasal polyposis (CRSwNP).
STUDY DESIGN: Cohort-style Markov decision-tree economic model with a 36-year 
time horizon.
METHODS: Matched cohorts of CRSwNP patients who underwent endoscopic sinus 
surgery (ESS) with (n = 139) and without (n = 49) EFS were compared to each 
other and to patients (n = 139) from the Medical Expenditures Survey Panel 
database who underwent medical management for chronic rhinosinusitis. Multi-year 
health utility values were calculated from responses to the EuroQol 5-Dimension 
instrument. The primary outcome measure was the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: Decision analysis showed that ESS without EFS proved more 
