mixtures probably due to feeding problems while when presenting after some 
2-3 months taste development and the difference in the taste of amino acid 
mixtures compared to regular formula and breast milk increase difficulties with 
the treatment.Following a dietary treatment is even harder than taking some 
medicine. Older children and adolescents often relax the diet and at some age 
become reluctant to stick to a strict regimen. Therefore, adequate training and 
information should be given to the patients and the family at regular intervals. 
To achieve this, a multidisciplinary approach involving 
pediatricians/physicians, dieticians, psychologists and social workers is an 
asset for the care of patients with HT1.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-55780-9_18
PMID: 28755197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Demography. 2017 Aug;54(4):1579-1602. doi: 10.1007/s13524-017-0599-6.

Decomposing Current Mortality Differences Into Initial Differences and 
Differences in Trends: The Contour Decomposition Method.

Jdanov DA(1)(2), Shkolnikov VM(3)(4), van Raalte AA(3), Andreev EM(4).

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Konrad Zuse Str. 1, 18057, 
Rostock, Germany. Jdanov@demogr.mpg.de.
(2)National Research University Higher School of Economics, Bol'shoj 
Trehsvjatitel'skij pereulok, 3, 109028, Moscow, Russia. Jdanov@demogr.mpg.de.
(3)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Konrad Zuse Str. 1, 18057, 
Rostock, Germany.
(4)National Research University Higher School of Economics, Bol'shoj 
Trehsvjatitel'skij pereulok, 3, 109028, Moscow, Russia.

This study proposes a new decomposition method that permits a difference in an 
aggregate measure at a final time point to be split into additive components 
corresponding to the initial differences in the event rates of the measure and 
differences in trends in these underlying event rates. For instance, when 
studying divergence in life expectancy, this method allows researchers to more 
easily contrast age-specific mortality trends between populations by controlling 
for initial age-specific mortality differences. Two approaches are assessed: (1) 
an additive change method that uses logic similar to cause-of-death 
decomposition, and (2) a contour decomposition method that extends the stepwise 
replacement algorithm along an age-period demographic contour. The two 
approaches produce similar results, but the contour method is more widely 
applicable. We provide a full description of the contour replacement method and 
examples of its application to life expectancy and lifetime disparity 
differences between the United States and England and Wales in the period 
1980-2010.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-017-0599-6
PMCID: PMC5547192
PMID: 28755276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Histochem Cell Biol. 2017 Dec;148(6):597-606. doi:
10.1007/s00418-017-1600-6.  Epub 2017 Jul 28.

Deficiency of a membrane skeletal protein, 4.1G, results in myelin abnormalities 
in the peripheral nervous system.

Saitoh Y(1)(2), Ohno N(3), Yamauchi J(4), Sakamoto T(5), Terada N(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Sciences, Shinshu University Graduate School of Medicine, 
3-1-1 Asahi, Matsumoto, Nagano, 390-8621, Japan.
(2)Faculty of Medical Sciences, Department of Tokyo Physical Therapy, Teikyo 
University of Science, Adachi-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Center for Multidisciplinary Brain Research, National Institute for 
Physiological Science, Okazaki, Aichi, Japan.
(4)Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience and Neurology, School of Life Sciences, 
Tokyo University of Pharmacy and Life Sciences, Hachioji, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Division of Molecular Pathology, The Institute of Medical Science, The 
University of Tokyo, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Division of Health Sciences, Shinshu University Graduate School of Medicine, 
3-1-1 Asahi, Matsumoto, Nagano, 390-8621, Japan. nobuot@shinshu-u.ac.jp.

We previously demonstrated that a membrane skeletal molecular complex, 
4.1G-membrane palmitoylated protein 6 (MPP6)-cell adhesion molecule 4, is 
incorporated in Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). In this 
study, we evaluated motor activity and myelin ultrastructures in 4.1G-deficient 
(-/-) mice. When suspended by the tail, aged 4.1G-/- mice displayed spastic leg 
extension, especially after overwork. Motor-conduction velocity in 4.1G-/- mice 
was slower than that in wild-type mice. Using electron microscopy, 4.1G-/- mice 
exhibited myelin abnormalities: myelin was thicker in internodes, and attachment 
of myelin tips was distorted in some paranodes. In addition, we found a novel 
function of 4.1G for sorting a scaffold protein, Lin7, due to disappearance of 
the immunolocalization and reduction of the production of Lin7c and Lin7a in 
4.1G-/- sciatic nerves, as well as the interaction of MPP6 and Lin7 with 
immunoprecipitation. Thus, we herein propose 4.1G functions as a signal for 
proper formation of myelin in PNS.

DOI: 10.1007/s00418-017-1600-6
PMID: 28755316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Occup Environ Med. 2017 Nov;74(11):816-822. doi: 10.1136/oemed-2016-104173.
Epub  2017 Jul 29.

The economic burden of lung cancer and mesothelioma due to occupational and 
para-occupational asbestos exposure.

Tompa E(1)(2)(3), Kalcevich C(1), McLeod C(1)(4), Lebeau M(5), Song C(6), McLeod 
K(4), Kim J(6), Demers PA(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Work and Health, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Economics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(4)School of Population and Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(5)Institut de recherche Robert-Sauvé en santé et en sécurité du travail 
(IRSST), Montréal, Québec, Canada.
(6)Occupation Cancer Research Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the economic burden of lung cancer and mesothelioma due 
to occupational and para-occupational asbestos exposure in Canada.
METHODS: We estimate the lifetime cost of newly diagnosed lung cancer and 
mesothelioma cases associated with occupational and para-occupational asbestos 
exposure for calendar year 2011 based on the societal perspective. The key cost 
components considered are healthcare costs, productivity and output costs, and 
quality of life costs.
RESULTS: There were 427 cases of newly diagnosed mesothelioma cases and 1904 
lung cancer cases attributable to asbestos exposure in 2011 for a total of 2331 
cases. Our estimate of the economic burden is $C831 million in direct and 
indirect costs for newly identified cases of mesothelioma and lung cancer and 
$C1.5 billion in quality of life costs based on a value of $C100 000 per 
quality-adjusted life year. This amounts to $C356 429 and $C652 369 per case, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The economic burden of lung cancer and mesothelioma associated with 
occupational and para-occupational asbestos exposure is substantial. The 
estimate identified is for 2331 newly diagnosed, occupational and 
para-occupational exposure cases in 2011, so it is only a portion of the burden 
of existing cases in that year. Our findings provide important information for 
policy decision makers for priority setting, in particular the merits of banning 
the mining of asbestos and use of products containing asbestos in countries 
where they are still allowed and also the merits of asbestos removal in older 
buildings with asbestos insulation.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2017. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/oemed-2016-104173
PMCID: PMC5740539
PMID: 28756416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


678. Arch Gynecol Obstet. 2017 Oct;296(4):783-790. doi:
10.1007/s00404-017-4481-y.  Epub 2017 Jul 29.

Changes in incontinence after hysterectomy.

Kruse AR(1), Jensen TD(1), Lauszus FF(2), Kallfa E(1), Madsen MR(3).

Author information:
(1)Gynecology Department, Herning Hospital, Gl. Landevej 61, 7400, Herning, 
Denmark.
(2)Gynecology Department, Herning Hospital, Gl. Landevej 61, 7400, Herning, 
Denmark. finlau@rm.dk.
(3)Surgical Research Unit, Department of Surgery, Herning Hospital, Gl. Landevej 
61, 7400, Herning, Denmark.

PURPOSE: Information about the perioperative incontinence following hysterectomy 
is limited. To advance the postoperative rehabilitation further we need more 
information about qualitative changes in incontinence, fatigue and physical 
function of patients undergoing hysterectomy.
METHODS: 108 patients undergoing planned hysterectomy were compared pre- and 
postoperatively. In a sub-study of the prospective follow-up study the changes 
in incontinence, postoperative fatigue, quality of life, physical function, and 
body composition were evaluated preoperatively, 13 and 30 days postoperatively. 
Sample size calculation indicated that 102 women had to be included. The 
incontinence status was estimated by a Danish version of the ICIG questionnaire; 
further, visual analogue scale, dynamometer for hand grip, knee extension 
strength and balance were applied. Work capacity was measured ergometer cycle 
together with lean body mass by impedance. Quality of life was assessed using 
the SF-36 questionnaire. Patients were examined preoperatively and twice 
postoperatively.
RESULTS: In total 41 women improved their incontinence after hysterectomy and 10 
women reported deterioration. Preoperative stress incontinence correlated with 
BMI (r = 0.25, p < 0.01) and urge incontinence with age (r = 0.24, p < 0.02). 
Further, improvement after hysterectomy in stress incontinence was associated 
with younger age (r = 0.20, p < 0.04). Improvement in urge incontinence was 
positively associated with BMI (r = 0.22, p = 0.02). A slight but significant 
loss was seen in lean body mass 13 and 30 days postoperatively.
CONCLUSIONS: Hysterectomy was not significantly associated with the risk of 
incontinence; in particular, when no further vaginal surgery is performed. 
Hysterectomy may even have a slightly positive effect on incontinence and 
de-novo cure.

DOI: 10.1007/s00404-017-4481-y
PMID: 28756528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. J Autism Dev Disord. 2017 Nov;47(11):3380-3391. doi:
10.1007/s10803-017-3251-9.

A Scoping Review of Health Disparities in Autism Spectrum Disorder.

Bishop-Fitzpatrick L(1)(2), Kind AJH(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA. 
bishopfitzpa@waisman.wisc.edu.
(2)Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA. 
bishopfitzpa@waisman.wisc.edu.
(3)Division of Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA.
(4)VA Geriatrics Research Education and Clinical Center (GRECC), Madison, WI, 
USA.

Individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) experience increased morbidity 
and decreased life expectancy compared to the general population, and these 
disparities are likely exacerbated for those individuals who are otherwise 
disadvantaged. We conducted a review to ascertain what is known about health and 
health system quality (e.g., high quality care delivery, adequate care access) 
disparities in ASD. Nine studies met final inclusion criteria. Seven studies 
identified racial disparities in access to general medical services for children 
with ASD. No studies examined disparities in health outcomes or included older 
adults. We present a model of health disparities (Fundamental Causes Model) that 
guides future research. Additional work should examine health disparities, and 
their causal pathways, in ASD, particularly for older adults.

DOI: 10.1007/s10803-017-3251-9
PMCID: PMC5693721
PMID: 28756549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Pharmacoeconomics. 2017 Dec;35(12):1223-1236. doi:
10.1007/s40273-017-0555-8.

Treatments for Metastatic Prostate Cancer (mPC): A Review of Costing Evidence.

Norum J(1)(2), Nieder C(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Finnmark Hospital Trust, 9600, Hammerfest, Norway. 
jan.norum@helse-nord.no.
(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health Science, UiT-The Arctic 
University of Norway, 9037, Tromsø, Norway. jan.norum@helse-nord.no.
(3)Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health Science, UiT-The Arctic 
University of Norway, 9037, Tromsø, Norway.
(4)Department of Oncology and Palliative Medicine, Nordland Hospital, 8092, 
Bodø, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer (PC) is the most common cancer in Western countries. 
More than one third of PC patients develop metastatic disease, and the 5-year 
expected survival in distant disease is about 35%. During the last few years, 
new treatments have been launched for metastatic castrate-resistant prostate 
cancer (mCRPC).
OBJECTIVES: We aimed to review the current literature on health economic 
analysis on the treatment of metastatic prostate cancer (mPC), compare the 
studies, summarize the findings and make the results available to administrators 
and decision makers.
METHODS: A systematic literature search was done for economic evaluations 
(cost-minimization, cost-effectiveness, cost-utility, cost-of-illness, 
cost-of-drug, and cost-benefit analyses). We employed the PubMed® search engine 
and searched for publications published between 2012 and 2016. The terms used 
were "prostate cancer", "metastatic" and "cost". An initial screening of all 
headlines was performed, selected abstracts were analysed, and finally the full 
papers investigated. Study characteristics, treatment and comparator, country, 
type of evaluation, perspective, year of value, time horizon, efficacy data, 
discount rate, total costs and sensitivity analysis were analysed. The quality 
was assessed using the Quality of Health Economic Studies (QHES) instrument.
RESULTS: A total of 227 publications were detected and screened, 58 selected for 
full-text assessment and 31 included in the final analyses. Despite the 
significant international literature on the treatment of mCRPC, there were only 
15 studies focusing on cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA). Medical treatment 
constituted two thirds of the selected studies. Significant costs in the 
treatment of mCRPC were disclosed. In the pre-docetaxel setting, both 
abiraterone acetate (AA) and enzalutamide were concluded beyond accepted 
cost/quality-adjusted life year limits. In the docetaxel refractory setting, 
most studies concluded that enzalutamide was cost-effective and superior to AA. 
In most studies, cabazitaxel was not recommended, because of high cost. Looking 
at bone-targeting drugs, generic zoledronic acid (ZA) was recommended. External 
beam radiotherapy (EBRT) was analysed in three studies, and single fraction 
radiotherapy was concluded to be cost saving. Radium-223 was documented as 
beneficial, but costly. The quality of the studies was generally good, but 
sensitivity analyses, discounting and the measurement of health outcomes were 
present in less than two thirds of the selected studies.
CONCLUSIONS: The treatment of mCRPC was associated with significant cost. In the 
post-docetaxel setting, single fraction radiotherapy and enzalutamide were 
considered cost-effective in most studies. Generic ZA was the recommended 
bone-targeting therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-017-0555-8
PMID: 28756597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2017 Jul 30;7(7):CD009072. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD009072.pub3.

Pathogen-reduced platelets for the prevention of bleeding.

Estcourt LJ(1), Malouf R, Hopewell S, Trivella M, Doree C, Stanworth SJ, Murphy 
MF.

Author information:
(1)Haematology/Transfusion Medicine, NHS Blood and Transplant, Level 2, John 
Radcliffe Hospital, Headington, Oxford, UK, OX3 9BQ.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Mar 28;(3):CD009072.

BACKGROUND: Platelet transfusions are used to prevent and treat bleeding in 
people who are thrombocytopenic. Despite improvements in donor screening and 
laboratory testing, a small risk of viral, bacterial, or protozoal contamination 
of platelets remains. There is also an ongoing risk from newly emerging blood 
transfusion-transmitted infections for which laboratory tests may not be 
available at the time of initial outbreak.One solution to reduce the risk of 
blood transfusion-transmitted infections from platelet transfusion is 
photochemical pathogen reduction, in which pathogens are either inactivated or 
significantly depleted in number, thereby reducing the chance of transmission. 
This process might offer additional benefits, including platelet shelf-life 
extension, and negate the requirement for gamma-irradiation of platelets. 
Although current pathogen-reduction technologies have been proven to reduce 
pathogen load in platelet concentrates, a number of published clinical studies 
have raised concerns about the effectiveness of pathogen-reduced platelets for 
post-transfusion platelet count recovery and the prevention of bleeding when 
compared with standard platelets.This is an update of a Cochrane review first 
published in 2013.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness of pathogen-reduced platelets for the 
prevention of bleeding in people of any age requiring platelet transfusions.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in the 
Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (the Cochrane Library 
2016, Issue 9), MEDLINE (from 1946), Embase (from 1974), CINAHL (from 1937), the 
Transfusion Evidence Library (from 1950), and ongoing trial databases to 24 
October 2016.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included RCTs comparing the transfusion of 
pathogen-reduced platelets with standard platelets, or comparing different types 
of pathogen-reduced platelets.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We used the standard methodological procedures 
expected by Cochrane.
MAIN RESULTS: We identified five new trials in this update of the review. A 
total of 15 trials were eligible for inclusion in this review, 12 completed 
trials (2075 participants) and three ongoing trials. Ten of the 12 completed 
trials were included in the original review. We did not identify any RCTs 
comparing the transfusion of one type of pathogen-reduced platelets with 
another.Nine trials compared Intercept® pathogen-reduced platelets to standard 
platelets, two trials compared Mirasol® pathogen-reduced platelets to standard 
platelets; and one trial compared both pathogen-reduced platelets types to 
standard platelets. Three RCTs were randomised cross-over trials, and nine were 
parallel-group trials. Of the 2075 participants enrolled in the trials, 1981 
participants received at least one platelet transfusion (1662 participants in 
Intercept® platelet trials and 319 in Mirasol® platelet trials).One trial 
included children requiring cardiac surgery (16 participants) or adults 
requiring a liver transplant (28 participants). All of the other participants 
were thrombocytopenic individuals who had a haematological or oncological 
diagnosis. Eight trials included only adults.Four of the included studies were 
at low risk of bias in every domain, while the remaining eight included studies 
had some threats to validity.Overall, the quality of the evidence was low to 
high across different outcomes according to GRADE methodology.We are very 
uncertain as to whether pathogen-reduced platelets increase the risk of any 
bleeding (World Health Organization (WHO) Grade 1 to 4) (5 trials, 1085 
participants; fixed-effect risk ratio (RR) 1.09, 95% confidence interval (CI) 
1.02 to 1.15; I2 = 59%, random-effect RR 1.14, 95% CI 0.93 to 1.38; I2 = 59%; 
low-quality evidence).There was no evidence of a difference between 
pathogen-reduced platelets and standard platelets in the incidence of clinically 
significant bleeding complications (WHO Grade 2 or higher) (5 trials, 1392 
participants; RR 1.10, 95% CI 0.97 to 1.25; I2 = 0%; moderate-quality evidence), 
and there is probably no difference in the risk of developing severe bleeding 
(WHO Grade 3 or higher) (6 trials, 1495 participants; RR 1.24, 95% CI 0.76 to 
2.02; I2 = 32%; moderate-quality evidence).There is probably no difference 
between pathogen-reduced platelets and standard platelets in the incidence of 
all-cause mortality at 4 to 12 weeks (6 trials, 1509 participants; RR 0.81, 95% 
CI 0.50 to 1.29; I2 = 26%; moderate-quality evidence).There is probably no 
difference between pathogen-reduced platelets and standard platelets in the 
incidence of serious adverse events (7 trials, 1340 participants; RR 1.09, 95% 
CI 0.88 to 1.35; I2 = 0%; moderate-quality evidence). However, no bacterial 
transfusion-transmitted infections occurred in the six trials that reported this 
outcome.Participants who received pathogen-reduced platelet transfusions had an 
increased risk of developing platelet refractoriness (7 trials, 1525 
participants; RR 2.94, 95% CI 2.08 to 4.16; I2 = 0%; high-quality evidence), 
though the definition of platelet refractoriness differed between 
trials.Participants who received pathogen-reduced platelet transfusions required 
more platelet transfusions (6 trials, 1509 participants; mean difference (MD) 
1.23, 95% CI 0.86 to 1.61; I2 = 27%; high-quality evidence), and there was 
probably a shorter time interval between transfusions (6 trials, 1489 
participants; MD -0.42, 95% CI -0.53 to -0.32; I2 = 29%; moderate-quality 
evidence). Participants who received pathogen-reduced platelet transfusions had 
a lower 24-hour corrected-count increment (7 trials, 1681 participants; MD 
-3.02, 95% CI -3.57 to -2.48; I2 = 15%; high-quality evidence).None of the 
studies reported quality of life.We did not evaluate any economic outcomes.There 
was evidence of subgroup differences in multiple transfusion trials between the 
two pathogen-reduced platelet technologies assessed in this review (Intercept® 
and Mirasol®) for all-cause mortality and the interval between platelet 
transfusions (favouring Intercept®).
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Findings from this review were based on 12 trials, and of 
the 1981 participants who received a platelet transfusion only 44 did not have a 
haematological or oncological diagnosis.In people with haematological or 
oncological disorders who are thrombocytopenic due to their disease or its 
treatment, we found high-quality evidence that pathogen-reduced platelet 
transfusions increase the risk of platelet refractoriness and the platelet 
transfusion requirement. We found moderate-quality evidence that 
pathogen-reduced platelet transfusions do not affect all-cause mortality, the 
risk of clinically significant or severe bleeding, or the risk of a serious 
adverse event. There was insufficient evidence for people with other 
diagnoses.All three ongoing trials are in adults (planned recruitment 1375 
participants) with a haematological or oncological diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009072.pub3
PMCID: PMC5558872
PMID: 28756627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Lise Estcourt is partly funded by NIHR Cochrane 
Programme Grant ‐ Safe and Appropriate Use of Blood Components. Award of this 
national government grant by NIHR does not lead to a conflict of interest. Reem 
Malouf is partly funded by NIHR Cochrane Programme Grant ‐ Safe and Appropriate 
Use of Blood Components. Award of this national government grant by NIHR does 
not lead to a conflict of interest. Sally Hopewell is partly funded by NIHR 
Cochrane Programme Grant ‐ Safe and Appropriate Use of Blood Components. Award 
of this national government grant by NIHR does not lead to a conflict of 
interest. Marialena Trivella is partly funded by NIHR Cochrane Programme Grant ‐ 
Safe and Appropriate Use of Blood Components. Award of this national government 
grant by NIHR does not lead to a conflict of interest. Carolyn Doree: None 
known. Simon Stanworth: None known. Michael Murphy: None known.


682. J Clin Densitom. 2018 Oct-Dec;21(4):507-516. doi:
10.1016/j.jocd.2017.06.028.  Epub 2017 Jul 27.

Dual-Energy X-ray Absorptiometry Predictors of Vertebral Deformities in 
Beta-Thalassemia Major.

Osella G(1), Priola AM(2), Priola SM(2), Piga A(3), Longo F(3), Ventura M(4), 
Bentivegna G(4), Angeli A(4), Veltri A(2), Terzolo M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, AOU San Luigi Gonzaga Hospital, Orbassano, 
Italy; Department of Clinical and Biological Sciences, University of Torino, 
Italy. Electronic address: giangiacomo.osella@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Clinical and Biological Sciences, University of Torino, Italy; 
Department of Diagnostic Imaging, AOU San Luigi Gonzaga Hospital, Orbassano, 
Italy.
(3)Department of Clinical and Biological Sciences, University of Torino, Italy; 
Reference Centre for Hemoglobinopathies, AOU San Luigi Gonzaga Hospital, 
Orbassano, Italy.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, AOU San Luigi Gonzaga Hospital, Orbassano, 
Italy; Department of Clinical and Biological Sciences, University of Torino, 
Italy.

Vertebral fractures in beta-thalassemia major are increasingly found because of 
the longer life expectancy of patients, with a major negative impact on their 
quality of life. We performed a retrospective cross-sectional study to 
investigate the prevalence of vertebral deformities in thalassemic patients and 
to identify their best dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) predictor among 
trabecular bone score (TBS), bone mineral density (BMD), and Z-score. Eighty-two 
outpatients with beta-thalassemia major on regular conventional treatment were 
studied at a single academic center. All patients underwent plain 
thoracic-lumbar spine X-rays and lumbar DXA to assess the number and the 
severity of vertebral deformities (Genant's method), the spinal deformity index, 
lumbar spine DXA parameters (BMD, TBS, and Z-score), and the presence of 
platyspondyly. Twenty-nine patients (35%) had vertebral deformities and showed 
significantly lower TBSs than the remainders (1.141 ± 0.083 vs 1.254 ± 0.072, 
p < 0.0001). The analysis of variance of the TBS between the group of patients 
without vertebral deformities (spinal deformity index = 0) and the remaining 
groups showed a significant difference (p < 0.001). The TBS had better 
sensitivity (86.2%), specificity (75.5%), and diagnostic accuracy (79.3%) than 
BMD and Z-score in discriminating patients with and without vertebral 
deformities. Combining the TBS with the BMD or the Z-score showed that the 
diagnostic accuracy of the first in discriminating patients with and without 
vertebral deformities improved from 79.3% to 85.4% and 87.8%, respectively. The 
presence of platyspondyly was a significant predictor of vertebral deformities 
in the multivariate model. Vertebral deformities in well-treated patients with 
beta-thalassemia major are common and are often unrecognized. In our hands, the 
TBS was better than the BMD and the Z-score in predicting vertebral deformities. 
Plain X-rays of the spine should be performed also in asymptomatic patients, 
especially when the TBS is low.

Copyright © 2017 The International Society for Clinical Densitometry. Published 
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jocd.2017.06.028
PMID: 28756994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. J Infect Public Health. 2018 Mar-Apr;11(2):215-223. doi: 
10.1016/j.jiph.2017.07.021. Epub 2017 Jul 27.

Economic cost and burden of dengue during epidemics and non-epidemic years in 
Taiwan.

Luh DL(1), Liu CC(2), Luo YR(2), Chen SC(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung 40201, 
Taiwan, ROC; Department of Family and Community Medicine, Chung Shan Medical 
University Hospital, Taichung 40201, Taiwan, ROC.
(2)Department of Public Health, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung 40201, 
Taiwan, ROC.
(3)Department of Public Health, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung 40201, 
Taiwan, ROC; Department of Family and Community Medicine, Chung Shan Medical 
University Hospital, Taichung 40201, Taiwan, ROC. Electronic address: 
scchen@csmu.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND: Determining the disease and economic burden of dengue is critical 
for the allocation of public health resources. Several studies have used 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) to estimate the disease burden of dengue 
in different regions. However, there are no published studies discussing the 
estimates of dengue-related economic and disease burden specifically in Taiwan.
OBJECTIVES: We assessed the economic cost and disease burden of dengue 
infections in Taiwan for the period 1998-2014, and compared these during 
epidemic and non-epidemic years.
METHODS: We estimated the annual DALYs per million population using the 
disability weights for dengue fever (DF), dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF), dengue 
shock syndrome (DSS), and death cases. Economic costs were estimated and divided 
into direct (medical costs) and indirect costs (lost work days and caregiver 
fees).
RESULTS: For the period 1998-2014, a mean of 115.3 (range: 6.3-934.3) DALYs per 
million population annually were lost to dengue. In epidemic years, direct costs 
associated with dengue resulted mostly from hospitalization (86.09%), emergency 
(7.77%), outpatient (6.10%), and drug costs (0.03%). For indirect costs, lost 
productivity due to death (70.76%) was the dominant contributor. Overall, the 
costs were 12.3 times higher in epidemic years than in non-epidemic years 
(Wilcoxon rank sum test, p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to evaluate the economic costs and disease 
burden of dengue infections for this period in Taiwan, and reveals significant 
differences in economic impact between epidemic and non-epidemic years.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jiph.2017.07.021
PMID: 28757293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Sex Med Rev. 2018 Jan;6(1):114-123. doi: 10.1016/j.sxmr.2017.06.004. Epub
2017  Jul 27.

Erectile Dysfunction Following Pelvic Fracture Urethral Injury.

Johnsen NV(1), Kaufman MR(2), Dmochowski RR(2), Milam DF(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urological Surgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville, TN, USA. Electronic address: niels.v.johnsen@vanderbilt.edu.
(2)Department of Urological Surgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville, TN, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Although pelvic fracture urethral injuries (PFUIs) are rare, 
approximately half these patients will report erectile dysfunction (ED) after 
their injuries. The anatomic relations of the cavernosal nerves and arteries to 
the bones of the pelvis and the urethra put these structures at significant risk 
at the time of PFUI. This review examines the epidemiology, evaluation, and 
management of ED in this patient population.
AIM: To evaluate the epidemiology, pathophysiology, diagnosis, and management of 
patients with ED after PFUI.
METHODS: A literature review was performed to identify articles on PubMed 
published before May 2017 addressing PFUI and ED.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incidence, mechanisms, risk factors, evaluation, and 
management strategies of ED after PFUI were analyzed.
RESULTS: Patients with pelvic fractures are at risk of post-injury ED, whereas 
those with PFUI appear to be at even higher risk. Different potential mechanisms 
contributing to the pathophysiology of ED in this setting have been described in 
the literature, including damage to the nervous supply to the penis, arterial 
insufficiency, and veno-occlusive dysfunction. However, there is a lack of 
consensus on the predominant etiology. Appropriate diagnostic evaluation can 
help to elucidate the underlying pathophysiology on an individual basis and can 
help guide management. Oral therapies, intracavernosal injections, and 
inflatable penile prostheses have shown great success. Furthermore, unlike 
patients with ED from other causes, select patients with isolated arteriogenic 
ED are potentially eligible for penile revascularization procedures.
CONCLUSION: Because most patients with pelvic trauma are younger than 40 years 
with a significant life expectancy, appropriate diagnosis and management of ED 
after PFUI can greatly improve quality of life and allow resumption of 
post-injury sexual function. Identification of the causative pathology can help 
tailor treatment on an individual basis. Johnsen NV, Kaufman MR, Dmochowski RR, 
Milam DF. Erectile Dysfunction Following Pelvic Fracture Urethral Injury. Sex 
Med Rev 2018;6;114-123.

Copyright © 2017 International Society for Sexual Medicine. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sxmr.2017.06.004
PMID: 28757357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Chin Clin Oncol. 2017 Jul;6(Suppl 1):S3. doi: 10.21037/cco.2017.06.08.

Radiation for skull base meningiomas: review of the literature on the approach 
to radiotherapy.

Moraes FY(1), Chung C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; 
Radiation Medicine Program, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health 
Network, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX, USA. CChung3@mdanderson.org.

Skull base meningiomas (SBM) pose unique challenges for radiotherapy as these 
tumors are often in close proximity to a number of critical structures and may 
not be surgically addressed in many cases, leaving the question about the tumor 
grade and expected biological behaviour. External beam radiotherapy and 
radiosurgery are longstanding treatments for meningioma that are typically used 
as upfront primary therapy, for recurrent tumors and as adjuvant therapy 
following surgical resection. There is controversy regarding the optimal timing 
and approach for radiation therapy in various clinical settings such as the role 
of adjuvant radiotherapy for completely resected grade 2 tumours. Despite the 
use of radiotherapy for many decades, the evidence to guide optimal radiation 
treatment is limited largely to single institution series of EBRT, SRS and 
particle therapy. In this article, we review the published data to clarify the 
role of external beam radiotherapy, proton radiotherapy and single and 
multi-fraction radiosurgery for SBM. We also highlight the areas of potential 
research and need for clinical improvement, including the growing awareness and 
effort to improve cognitive function in this patient population, who typically 
have long life expectancy following their meningioma diagnosis.

DOI: 10.21037/cco.2017.06.08
PMID: 28758407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Disaster Med Public Health Prep. 2018 Feb;12(1):23-25. doi:
10.1017/dmp.2017.55.  Epub 2017 Jul 31.

The Ongoing Syrian Arab Republic Health Care Crisis.

Phillips SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Specialized Information Services,National Library of Medicine,National 
Institutes of Health,Department of Health and Human Services,Bethesda,Maryland.

Prior to the Syrian civil war, access and delivery of health care and health 
care information over the past 4 decades had steadily improved. The life 
expectancy of the average Syrian in 2012 was 75.7 years, compared to 56 years in 
1970. As a result of the civil war, this trend has reversed, with the life 
expectancy reduced by 20 years from the 2012 level. The Syrian government and 
its allies have specifically targeted the health care infrastructure not under 
government control. (Disaster Med Public Health Preparedness. 2018;12:23-25).

DOI: 10.1017/dmp.2017.55
PMID: 28758614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Amyloid. 2017 Sep;24(3):194-204. doi: 10.1080/13506129.2017.1357545. Epub
2017  Jul 31.

Long-term safety and efficacy of tafamidis for the treatment of hereditary 
transthyretin amyloid polyneuropathy: results up to 6 years.

Barroso FA(1), Judge DP(2), Ebede B(3), Li H(3), Stewart M(3), Amass L(3), 
Sultan MB(3).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Neurology , Institute for Neurological Research Raúl Carrea, 
FLENI , Buenos Aires , Argentina.
(2)b Johns Hopkins University Center for Inherited Heart Disease , Baltimore , 
MD , USA.
(3)c Pfizer Inc , New York , NY , USA.

BACKGROUND: The objective of the present study was to evaluate the long-term 
safety and efficacy of tafamidis in treating hereditary transthyretin amyloid 
polyneuropathy.
METHODS: A prospectively planned interim analysis was conducted on an on-going, 
phase III, open-label extension study following an 18-month, randomized, 
controlled study and 12-month, open-label extension study in ATTRV30M patients 
and a single-arm, open-label study in non-ATTRV30M patients. Thirty-seven 
ATTRV30M patients received placebo for 18 months, then switched to tafamidis and 
38 ATTRV30M patients and 18 non-ATTRV30M patients continuously received 
tafamidis from day 1, up to 6 years.
RESULTS: Long-term tafamidis was associated with a favourable 
safety/tolerability profile, without any unexpected adverse events. Patients 
initiating tafamidis at the start of the randomized study had less 
polyneuropathy progression versus those switching to tafamidis following 
18 months of placebo and were less likely to progress to the next ambulatory 
stage after up to 6 years follow-up. In the patients who switched from placebo 
to tafamidis, polyneuropathy progression and deterioration in quality of life 
slowed significantly during long-term tafamidis treatment as compared with the 
previous placebo treatment. In non-ATTRV30M patients, some polyneuropathy 
progression was observed across all efficacy measures.
CONCLUSIONS: These data provide evidence for the long-term (up to 6 years) 
safety and efficacy of tafamidis.ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00925002.

DOI: 10.1080/13506129.2017.1357545
PMID: 28758793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Insects. 2017 Jul 29;8(3):78. doi: 10.3390/insects8030078.

Sublethal Effects in Pest Management: A Surrogate Species Perspective on Fruit 
Fly Control.

Banks JE(1), Vargas RI(2), Ackleh AS(3), Stark JD(4).

Author information:
(1)Undergraduate Research Opportunities Center, California State University, 
Monterey Bay, Seaside, CA 93955, USA. jebanks@csumb.edu.
(2)Daniel K. Inouye, U.S. Pacific Basin Agricultural Research Center, 
Agricultural Research Service, United States Department of Agriculture, 64 
Nowelo St., Hilo, HI 96720, USA. roger.vargas@ars.usda.gov.
(3)R.P. Authement College of Sciences , University of Louisiana at Lafayette, 
201 Oliver Hall, P.O. Box 43649, Lafeyette, LA 70504, USA. ackleh@louisiana.edu.
(4)Washington State University Puyallup Research & Extension Center, 2606 W. 
Pioneer Ave, Puyallup, WA 98371, USA. starkj@wsu.edu.

Tephritid fruit flies are economically important orchard pests globally. While 
much effort has focused on controlling individual species with a combination of 
pesticides and biological control, less attention has been paid to managing 
assemblages of species. Although several tephritid species may co-occur in 
orchards/cultivated areas, especially in mixed-cropping schemes, their responses 
to pesticides may be highly variable. Furthermore, predictive efforts about 
toxicant effects are generally based on acute toxicity, with little or no regard 
to long-term population effects. Using a simple matrix model parameterized with 
life history data, we quantified the responses of several tephritid species to 
the sublethal effects of a toxicant acting on fecundity. Using a critical 
threshold to determine levels of fecundity reduction below which species are 
driven to local extinction, we determined that threshold levels vary widely for 
the three tephritid species. In particular, Bactrocera dorsalis was the most 
robust of the three species, followed by Ceratitis capitata, and then B. 
cucurbitae, suggesting individual species responses should be taken into account 
when planning for area-wide pest control. The rank-order of susceptibility 
contrasts with results from several field/lab studies testing the same species, 
suggesting that considering a combination of life history traits and individual 
species susceptibility is necessary for understanding population responses of 
species assemblages to toxicant exposure.

DOI: 10.3390/insects8030078
PMCID: PMC5620698
PMID: 28758923

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


689. J Asthma. 2018 May;55(5):561-570. doi: 10.1080/02770903.2017.1348512. Epub
2017  Aug 17.

A cost-effectiveness threshold analysis of a multidisciplinary structured 
educational intervention in pediatric asthma.

Rodriguez-Martinez CE(1)(2), Sossa-Briceño MP(3), Castro-Rodriguez JA(4).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Pediatrics, School of Medicine , Universidad Nacional de 
Colombia , Bogota , Colombia.
(2)b Department of Pediatric Pulmonology and Pediatric Critical Care Medicine, 
School of Medicine , Universidad El Bosque , Bogota , Colombia.
(3)c Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine , Universidad Nacional 
de Colombia , Bogota , Colombia.
(4)d Division of Pediatrics, School of Medicine , Pontificia Universidad 
Catolica de Chile , Santiago , Chile.

OBJECTIVE: Asthma educational interventions have been shown to improve several 
clinically and economically important outcomes. However, these interventions are 
costly in themselves and could lead to even higher disease costs. A 
cost-effectiveness threshold analysis would be helpful in determining the 
threshold value of the cost of educational interventions, leading to these 
interventions being cost-effective. The aim of the present study was to perform 
a cost-effectiveness threshold analysis to determine the level at which the cost 
of a pediatric asthma educational intervention would be cost-effective and 
cost-saving.
METHODS: A Markov-type model was developed in order to estimate costs and health 
outcomes of a simulated cohort of pediatric patients with persistent asthma 
treated over a 12-month period. Effectiveness parameters were obtained from a 
single uncontrolled before-and-after study performed with Colombian asthmatic 
children. Cost data were obtained from official databases provided by the 
Colombian Ministry of Health. The main outcome was the variable 
"quality-adjusted life-years" (QALYs).
RESULTS: A deterministic threshold sensitivity analysis showed that the asthma 
educational intervention will be cost-saving to the health system if its cost is 
under US$513.20. Additionally, the analysis showed that the cost of the 
intervention would have to be below US$967.40 in order to be cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: This study identified the level at which the cost of a pediatric 
asthma educational intervention will be cost-effective and cost-saving for the 
health system in Colombia. Our findings could be a useful aid for decision 
makers in efficiently allocating limited resources when planning asthma 
educational interventions for pediatric patients.

DOI: 10.1080/02770903.2017.1348512
PMID: 28759278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Horm Metab Res. 2017 Sep;49(9):654-659. doi: 10.1055/s-0043-115645. Epub
2017  Jul 31.

Prevalence, Clinical Features, and Natural History of Incidental Clinically 
Non-Functioning Pituitary Adenomas.

Iglesias P(1), Arcano K(1), Triviño V(2), García-Sancho P(3), Díez JJ(1)(4), 
Villabona C(3), Cordido F(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal, Madrid, 
Spain.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Hospital Universitario A Coruña, A Coruña, 
Spain.
(3)Department of Endocrinolgy, Hospital Universitario de Bellvitge, L' 
Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Department of Medicine, Universidad de Alcalá de Henares, Madrid, Spain.

The objective of the study was to assess the prevalence and clinical features of 
incidentally discovered clinically non-functioning pituitary adenoma (CNFPA) and 
to analyze its natural history. A multicenter retrospective study in patients 
diagnosed with incidental CNFPA periodically followed-up in 3 specialized 
neuroendocrinology units from 1992 to 2015 was performed. Out of a total of 189 
CNFPA patients, 57 cases (30.1%; 29 women; age at diagnosis 55.8±16.7 years) 
were incidental. Most patients (n=55, 96.5%) were diagnosed by magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI). A sum of 71.9% (n=41) were macroadenomas; 2 of them 
(3.5%) were giant adenomas (≥4 cm). Patients with macroadenomas were older than 
those with microadenomas (59.5±16.7 vs. 46.4±18.1 years, p=0.007). Macroadenomas 
were more common in men (85.7% vs. 58.6%, p=0.023). Twenty-eight patients 
(49.1%) showed suprasellar extension; of these, 19 were accompanied by 
chiasmatic compression. Hypopituitarism was present in 14 (24.6%) patients; 
which was partial in 13 patients (22.8%) and complete in one patient (1.8%). The 
gonadal axis was the most frequently affected (n=13, 22.8%). Twenty four 
patients (42.1%) underwent surgery. Of the non-operated patients, 26 patients 
could be evaluated morphologically after a median follow-up of 15.5 months 
(interquartile range, 5.7-32.7 months). No significant changes were found in the 
maximum tumor diameter at the end of follow-up (1.2±0.6 vs 1.2±0.7 cm). The 
majority of CNFPAs evaluated (n=23, 88.5%) did not show any changes in size. In 
2 cases (7.7%) tumor size decreased, and in one patient (3.8%) increased. In our 
series of CNFPA patients, approximately one-third were incidental. These tumors 
were diagnosed by MRI preferably from the 5th decade of life without sex 
predilection. Most of them were macroadenomas, more commonly diagnosed in men 
and at an older age, compared to microadenomas. The suprasellar extension with 
chiasmatic compression and hypopituitarism were frequent at diagnosis. Most of 
the non-operated incidental CNFPAs remain with stable tumor size over time, 
growth being an unusual event.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0043-115645
PMID: 28759937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


691. Ann Dermatol. 2017 Aug;29(4):454-461. doi: 10.5021/ad.2017.29.4.454. Epub
2017  Jun 21.

Morphological Characteristics of Residual Skin Surface Components Collected from 
the Surface of Facial Skin in Women of Different Age.

Chalyk NE(1)(2), Bandaletova TY(3), Kyle NH(1), Petyaev IM(1).

Author information:
(1)Lycotec Ltd., Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(2)Saratov State Medical University named after V. I. Razumovsky, Institute of 
Cardiology of the Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation, Saratov, Russian 
Federation.
(3)DiagNodus Ltd., Cambridge, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Problems of skin aging and its prevention currently attract 
increasing attention with the growth of human life expectancy. The morphology of 
the stratum corneum (SC) is well known, but investigation of age-related changes 
of its structure is difficult in the absence of non-invasive sampling methods. 
The residual skin surface components (RSSC) that overlay the SC can be easily 
collected non-invasively.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to examine morphology of RSSC samples 
collected from the surface of facial skin of healthy female volunteers of 
different age.
METHODS: RSSC samples were non-invasively collected from 53 adult female 
volunteers (22 aged in the range 18∼25 years and 31 aged in the range 50∼73 
years). The samples were analysed microscopically.
RESULTS: Distinct age-related changes were determined for lipid droplet size, 
corneocyte desquamation level and lipid crystal count. There was a significant 
(p=0.0006) decrease in lipid droplet size among older women. Similarly, 
significantly (p=0.0401) lower lipid crystal numbers were present in the older 
group. Conversely, corneocyte desquamation was significantly higher (p=0.0007) 
in older women. No age-related difference in microbial presence in the RSSC 
could be detected. Result patterns were generally similar to those previously 
found in male volunteers; however gender-related differences in the absolute 
values were revealed.
CONCLUSION: Non-invasively collected RSSC samples allow identifying age-related 
changes on facial skin surface. The results of this study highlight 
gender-dependence of distinct elements of age-associated impairment of epidermal 
barrier and can be employed for developing new approaches to prevent changes 
associated with skin aging.

DOI: 10.5021/ad.2017.29.4.454
PMCID: PMC5500711
PMID: 28761294

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: The authors have nothing 
to disclose.


692. Neural Regen Res. 2017 Jun;12(6):902-905. doi: 10.4103/1673-5374.208564.

The interaction of genetics and environmental toxicants in amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis: results from animal models.

Sher RB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Behavior, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, 
NY, USA.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease 
that results in the progressive death of motor neurons, leading to paralysis and 
eventual death. There is presently no cure for ALS, and only two drugs are 
available, neither of which provide significant extension of life. The wide 
variation in onset and progression of the disease, both in sporadic and even in 
strongly penetrant monogenic familial forms of ALS, indicate that in addition to 
background genetic variation impacting the disease process, environmental 
exposures are likely contributors. Epidemiological evidence worldwide implicates 
exposures to bacterial toxins, heavy metals, pesticides, and trauma as probable 
environmental factors. Here, we review current advances in gene-environment 
interactions in ALS animal models. We report our recent discoveries in a 
zebrafish model of ALS in relation to exposure to the cyanobacterial toxin BMAA, 
and discuss several results from mouse models that show interactions with 
exposure to mercury and statin drugs, both leading to acceleration of the 
disease process. The increasing research into this combinatorial 
gene-environment process is just starting, but shows early promise to uncover 
the underlying biochemical pathways that instigate the initial motor neuron 
defects and lead to their rapidly progressive dysfunction.

DOI: 10.4103/1673-5374.208564
PMCID: PMC5514860
PMID: 28761418

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: None declared.


693. Ann Med Surg (Lond). 2017 Jun 8;20:97-102. doi: 10.1016/j.amsu.2017.06.015. 
eCollection 2017 Aug.

Mean platelet volume and serum uric acid in neonatal sepsis: A case-control 
study.

Shalaby MM(1), Sobeih AA(1), Abdulghany WE(1), Behiry EG(2), Ismail YM(2), 
Abd-El-Aziz MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Pediatrics Departments, Faculty of Medicine, Benha University, Egypt.
(2)Clinical and Chemical Pathology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Benha 
University, Egypt.

BACKGROUND: Mean platelet volume (MPV) is a measure of platelet volume. It 
reveals the presence of inflammatory burden and disease activity in many 
diseases. Serum uric acid (SUA) is one of the most important antioxidants in 
human biological fluids and is responsible for neutralizing > 50% of the free 
radicals in the human blood. For this reason, it was thought that the 
antioxidant effects of SUA could increase the life expectancy and/or reduce the 
incidence of malignancy.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the role of mean platelet volume (MPV) and serum uric 
acid (SUA) level in the diagnosis of neonatal sepsis (NS).
METHODS: This case-control study was done on 80 newborns divided into 3 groups: 
group A (n = 22): clinical NS, group B (n = 18): Proven NS and Group C (n = 40): 
apparently healthy control. All patients in the study were subjected to adequate 
assessment of history, full clinical examination, complete blood count including 
MPV, C - reactive protein (CRP), blood culture in CRP positive cases, and SUA 
level at the time of diagnosis of sepsis.
RESULTS: Septic neonates showed statistically higher values of MPV and 
statistically lower levels of SUA than the control group. The diagnostic cut-off 
values of MPV and SUA for NS were 10.2 fL, and 3.70 mg/dL, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: MPV could be assessed in the early diagnosis of neonatal sepsis 
while SUA level has lower sensitivity in neonatal sepsis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amsu.2017.06.015
PMCID: PMC5522914
PMID: 28761638


694. BMJ Open Sport Exerc Med. 2017 May 31;3(1):e000160. doi: 
10.1136/bmjsem-2016-000160. eCollection 2017.

The effect of minimalist footwear and instruction on running: an observational 
study.

Barcellona MG(1), Buckley L(2), Palmer LJM(2), Ormond RM(2), Owen G(2), Watson 
DJ(2), Woledge R(3), Newham D(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Health & Social Care Research, Faculty of Life Sciences & 
Medicine, King's College London, London, UK.
(2)Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Life Sciences & Medicine, King's 
College London, London, UK.
(3)Centre of Human & Aerospace Physiological Sciences, Faculty of Health & Life 
Sciences, King's College London, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: It is not known whether the effects on altered running style which 
are attributed to minimalist footwear can be achieved by verbal instructions in 
standard running shoes (SRS).
AIM: To explore the effect of Vibram FiveFingers (VFF) versus SRS plus running 
instruction on lower extremity spatiotemporal parameters and lower limb joint 
kinematics.
METHODS: 35 healthy subjects (mean=30 years, 18 females) were assessed on two 
occasions with 3D motion analysis. At each session subjects ran on a treadmill 
(3.58 m/s) for 2 min in either VFF or SRS (randomised order); with and without 
running instruction. Differences between spatiotemporal parameters and lower 
limb joint kinematics between conditions were assessed using a 2x2 
repeated-measures ANOVA.
RESULTS: Wearing VFF significantly increased cadence (p<0.001) and reduced 
stride length (p<0.01). Prior to initial contact, both instruction and VFF 
significantly increased foot (p<0.001 and p=0.02, respectively) and ankle 
(p<0.001 and p=0.02, respectively) plantarflexion, while wearing VFF 
significantly increased knee extension (p=0.04). At initial contact, instruction 
significantly increased knee flexion (p=0.04), and foot (p=0.001) and ankle 
(p=0.03) plantarflexion. At mid-stance and toe-off, instruction significantly 
increased knee flexion (p=0.048 and p<0.001, respectively) and foot 
plantarflexion (p<0.001 and p=0.01, respectively). Instruction had a greater 
effect on increasing knee flexion (p=0.007) and plantarflexion angle (p<0.001) 
when subjects wore SRS and VFF, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Alterations in spatiotemporal parameters observed when running in 
VFF are likely to be attributable to the minimalist footwear. However, the 
kinematic adaptations observed following instruction suggests that changes in 
joint angles previously attributed to minimalist footwear alone may be similarly 
