achieved with instruction.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjsem-2016-000160
PMCID: PMC5530131
PMID: 28761694

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


695. ESMO Open. 2017 Mar 14;2(1):e000116. doi: 10.1136/esmoopen-2016-000116. 
eCollection 2017.

Impact of intervention aimed at improving the integration of oncology units and 
local palliative care services: results of the multicentre prospective 
sequential MIRTO study.

Martoni AA(1), Melotti B(1), Degli Esposti C(1), Mutri V(1), Lelli G(2), 
Ansaloni S(1), Piva E(2), Strocchi E(3), Pannuti F(4).

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Unit, University Hospital S.Orsola-Malpighi, Bologna, Italy.
(2)Clinical Oncology, University Hospital, Ferrara, Italy.
(3)Industrial Chemistry Institute, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(4)Fondazione ANT, Bologna, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Chemotherapy (CT) in patients with advanced cancer (ACP) near the 
end of life is an increasing practice of oncology units. A closer integration 
with palliative care (PC) services could reduce the use of potentially harmful 
CT. This prospective study is aimed at assessing whether a more integrated care 
model could reduce CT use near the end of life and increase local PC service 
utilisation.
METHODS: The study enrolled sequentially two cohorts of ACP with an estimated 
life expectancy of ≤6 months. In the first cohort, the usual oncologist's 
practice to prescribe CT and to activate local PC services were recorded. In 
cohort 2, the oncologist's decision was taken after an in-hospital consultation 
with the local PC teams. After patient death, a follow-back survey was carried 
out.
RESULTS: The two cohorts included 109 and 125 evaluable patients, respectively. 
The oncologist's decision to prescribe CT occurred in 51.4% and 60%, 
respectively: the percentages of patients receiving the final CT administration 
in the last 30 days of life did not differ in the two cohorts (33.9% and 29.3%, 
respectively,p=0.83). Conversely, an increase in home PC service utilisation 
(from 56.9% to 82.4%, p=0.00), at home deaths (from 40.4% to 56.8%, p=0.01) and 
in-hospice deaths (from 8.3% to 19.2%, p=0.00) occurred in cohort 2.
CONCLUSION: The implementation of an initial in-hospital consultation of 
oncologists and experienced home PC teams has not reduced the use of CT near the 
end of life but increased PC service utilisation and reduced in-hospital deaths.

DOI: 10.1136/esmoopen-2016-000116
PMCID: PMC5519798
PMID: 28761725

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


696. Pharmacoeconomics. 2017 Aug;35(8):845-858. doi: 10.1007/s40273-017-0519-z.

Using Genomic Information to Guide Ibrutinib Treatment Decisions in Chronic 
Lymphocytic Leukaemia: A Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.

Buchanan J(1), Wordsworth S(2), Clifford R(3)(4), Robbe P(3), Taylor JC(5)(6), 
Schuh A(3)(4)(5)(7), Knight SJL(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Nuffield Department of Population Health, 
University of Oxford, Old Road Campus, Headington, Oxford, OX3 7LF, UK. 
james.buchanan@dph.ox.ac.uk.
(2)Health Economics Research Centre, Nuffield Department of Population Health, 
University of Oxford, Old Road Campus, Headington, Oxford, OX3 7LF, UK.
(3)Oxford Molecular Diagnostics Centre, Oxford University Hospitals Trust, 
Oxford, UK.
(4)Oxford Cancer and Haematology Centre, Churchill Hospital, Oxford, UK.
(5)National Institute for Health Research Oxford Biomedical Research Centre, 
Oxford, UK.
(6)Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(7)Department of Oncology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

BACKGROUND: Genomic tests may improve the stratification of patients to receive 
new therapies in several disease areas. However, the use of expensive targeted 
therapies can impact on the cost effectiveness of these tests. This study 
presents an economic evaluation of genomic testing in chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia in the context of the UK National Health Service.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analyses (using life-years and 
quality-adjusted life-years) were undertaken from a National Health Service and 
societal perspective. Five strategies were evaluated across several age groups 
using Markov modelling: three strategies that reflected varying current genetic 
testing practice and two configurations of genomic testing (including ibrutinib 
treatment).
RESULTS: Genomic testing strategies yielded the most life-years/quality-adjusted 
life-years per patient, but were not cost effective compared with a threshold of 
£30,000 per life-year/quality-adjusted life-year gained. Cost-effectiveness 
acceptability curves indicated that there was some uncertainty surrounding this 
result. A genomic testing strategy becomes the most cost-effective option if a 
higher end-of-life cost-effectiveness threshold of £50,000 is applied, if a 
societal costing perspective is considered in 25-year-old patients or if the 
cost of ibrutinib treatment falls.
CONCLUSION: Stratifying patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia to targeted 
treatment using genomic testing improves health outcomes, but will likely only 
represent a cost-effective use of limited National Health Service resources if a 
higher cost-effectiveness threshold or societal costing perspective is applied, 
or if the price of ibrutinib treatment is reduced. This result may be broadly 
indicative of the likely cost effectiveness of other genomic tests that inform 
the stratification of patients to high cost-targeted therapies.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-017-0519-z
PMCID: PMC5548825
PMID: 28762015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: FUNDING: This paper represents independent 
research arising from a Doctoral Research Fellowship awarded to James Buchanan 
and supported by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR). Sarah 
Wordsworth, Jenny C Taylor, Anna Schuh and Samantha JL Knight are supported by 
the NIHR Biomedical Research Centre, Oxford and Ruth Clifford by a Clinical 
Research Fellowship awarded by the Oxford Cancer Research Centre from Cancer 
Research UK. This work was also supported by funding from the Wellcome Trust 
Core Award Grant Number 090532/Z/09/Z and by the Health Innovation Challenge 
Fund (HICF-1009-026, WT091989/Z/10/Z), a parallel funding partnership between 
the Department of Health and Wellcome Trust. The open access fee for this 
article was paid by the Charity Open Access Fund, a partnership between six 
health research charities administered by the Wellcome Trust. The views 
expressed in this paper are those of the authors and not necessarily those of 
the NHS, Wellcome Trust, NIHR, Department of Health or Cancer Research UK. 
CONFLICT OF INTEREST: James Buchanan, Sarah Wordsworth, Ruth Clifford, Pauline 
Robbe, Jenny C Taylor, Anna Schuh and Samantha J. L. Knight have no conflicts of 
interest directly relevant to the content of this article. ETHICS APPROVAL: 
Ethics approval was not required for this study. DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT: 
The model underlying this paper was developed in Excel. The model file is not 
publicly available as it contains additional calculations and results that are 
not yet in the public domain, but which will feature in future publications that 
build on this work. However, full details of the model structure and inputs are 
presented in the paper and supplementary material.


697. Neotrop Entomol. 2018 Apr;47(2):311-317. doi: 10.1007/s13744-017-0547-6.
Epub  2017 Jul 31.

Acute Toxicity and Sublethal Effects of Terpenoids and Essential Oils on the 
Predator Chrysoperla externa (Neuroptera: Chrysopidae).

Castilhos RV(1), Grützmacher AD(2), Coats JR(3).

Author information:
(1)Agricultural Research and Rural Extension Company of Santa Catarina, Research 
Center for Family Agriculture, Serv. Ferdinando Tusset, 89803904, Chapecó, Santa 
Catarina, Brasil. rodolfocastilhos@epagri.sc.gov.br.
(2)Dept of Crop Protection, Agronomy College, Pelotas Federal Univ, Pelotas, Rio 
Grande do Sul, Brasil.
(3)Dept of Entomology, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Iowa State 
Univ, Ames, IA, USA.

The search for new safer insecticides has increased in recent agriculture. 
Botanical compounds such as terpenoids and plant essential oils with 
insecticidal activity could represent important tools in pest management, and 
their risk assessment against non-target organisms is necessary since they may 
serve as a precursor for the synthesis of new insecticide active ingredients. 
For this study, the acute toxicity and sublethal effects of seven terpenoids and 
three essential oils with recognized insecticidal activity were evaluated on the 
predator Chrysoperla externa (Hagen) (Neuroptera: Chrysopidae) in laboratory 
bioassays. Results indicate that these compounds feature relative selectivity to 
the predator C. externa; however, sublethal effects on reproduction were 
recorded for some compounds. The phenolic monoterpenoids carvacrol and thymol 
were more acutely toxic than other terpenoids screened, with LD50 <20,000 μg/g; 
however, they were less toxic than natural pyrethrins (toxicity standard) in 
these bioassays. Sublethal effects on fecundity and fertility were observed for 
R-(+)-limonene, while oregano oil only affected fecundity. The compounds 
evaluated here have potential to be used as insecticides and can serve as 
backbone for future synthesis of selective active ingredients; however, a 
complete risk assessment to C. externa and other non-target organisms is 
necessary for their incorporation in future crop protection paradigms.

DOI: 10.1007/s13744-017-0547-6
PMID: 28762217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Hum Mutat. 2017 Nov;38(11):1511-1520. doi: 10.1002/humu.23306. Epub 2017 Sep
6.

Enzymatic characterization of novel arylsulfatase A variants using human 
arylsulfatase A-deficient immortalized mesenchymal stromal cells.

Böhringer J(1)(2)(3), Santer R(4), Schumacher N(3), Gieseke F(3), Cornils 
K(3)(5), Pechan M(1), Kustermann-Kuhn B(1), Handgretinger R(2), Schöls L(6)(7), 
Harzer K(1), Krägeloh-Mann I(1), Müller I(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Neurology, University Children's Hospital Tübingen, 
Tübingen, Germany.
(2)Department of General Pediatrics, Hematology and Oncology, University 
Children's Hospital Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(3)Research Institute Children's Cancer Center Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg, Germany.
(5)Division of Pediatric Stem Cell Transplantation and Immunology, Department of 
Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg, Germany.
(6)Center for Neurology and Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, 
University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(7)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Tübingen, Germany.

Metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) is an autosomal-recessive lysosomal storage 
disease caused by mutations in the ARSA gene leading to arylsulfatase A (ARSA) 
deficiency and causing sulfatide accumulation. Main symptoms of the disease are 
progressive demyelination, neurological dysfunction, and reduced life 
expectancy. To date, more than 200 different ARSA variants have been reported in 
MLD patients. Here, we report the biochemical characterization of seven novel 
pathogenic variants (c.98T > C, c.195delC, c.229G > C, c.545C > G, c.674A > G, 
c.852T > A, and c.1274A > G), which were found when sequencing a cohort of 31 
German MLD families. For that purpose, the ARSA cDNAs carrying the respective 
mutations inserted by site-directed mutagenesis were cloned into a MigR1 (MSCV, 
IRES, GFP, retrovirus-1) vector. The constructs were overexpressed using 
retroviral gene transfer in immortalized, human multipotent mesenchymal stromal 
cells prepared from a patient deficient in ARSA activity (late infantile MLD). 
In this novel ARSA-/- cell system, the seven ARSA mutants showed ARSA activity 
of less than 10% when compared with wild type, which is evidence for the 
pathogenicity of all seven variants. In conclusion, the system of ARSA-/- 
-immortalized MSC turned out to be a helpful novel tool for the biochemical 
characterization of ARSA variants.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/humu.23306
PMID: 28762252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Perspect Psychiatr Care. 2018 Apr;54(2):266-273. doi: 10.1111/ppc.12233.
Epub  2017 Aug 1.

Increasing physical activity for veterans in the Mental Health Intensive Case 
Management Program: A community-based intervention.

Harrold SA(1)(2), Libet J(2), Pope C(2), Lauerer JA(1), Johnson E(1), Edlund 
BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, Medical University of South Carolina, South Carolina, 
USA.
(2)Mental Health Services, Ralph H Johnson VA Medical Center, South Carolina, 
USA.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: Individuals with severe mental illness (SMI), experience 
increased mortality-20 years greater disparity for men and 15 years greater 
disparity for women-compared to the general population (Thornicroft G. Physical 
health disparities and mental illness: The scandal of premature mortality. Br J 
Psychiatr. 2011;199:441-442). Numerous factors contribute to premature mortality 
in persons with SMI, including suicide and accidental death (Richardson RC, 
Faulkner G, McDevitt J, Skrinar GS, Hutchinson D, Piette JD. Integrating 
physical activity into mental health services for persons with serious mental 
illness. Psychiatr Serv. 2005;56(3):324-331; Thornicroft G. Physical health 
disparities and mental illness: The scandal of premature mortality. Br J 
Psychiatr. 2011;199:441-442), but research has shown that adverse health 
behaviors-including smoking, low rate of physical activity, poor diet, and high 
alcohol consumption-also significantly contribute to premature deaths (Jones J. 
Life expectancy in mental illness. Psychiatry Services. 2010. Retrieved from 
http://psychcentral.com/news/2010/07/13/life-expectancy-in-mental-illness). This 
quality improvement (QI) project sought to improve health and wellness for 
veterans in the Mental Health Intensive Case Management Program (MHICM), which 
is a community-based intensive program for veterans with SMI at risk for 
decompensation and frequent hospitalizations. At the time of this QI project, 
the program had 69 veterans who were assessed and treated weekly in their homes. 
The project introduced a pedometer steps intervention adapted from the VA MOVE! 
Program-a physical activity and weight management program-with the addition of 
personalized assistance from trained mental health professionals in the 
veteran's home environment. Because a large percentage of the veterans in the 
MHICM program had high blood pressure and increased weight, these outcomes were 
the focus of this project. Through mental health case management involvement and 
the comfort of their familiar living environment, veterans were assisted to meet 
their physical and mental health goals with a program that could easily be 
integrated into their daily lives.
BACKGROUND: Healthy People 2020 developed goals to improve levels of physical 
activity and has ranked physical activity as a leading health indicator (US 
DHHS. Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion. Physical activity topic 
overview. In Healthy People 2020. 2016. Retrieved from 
https://www.healthypeople.gov/2020/topics-objectives/topic/physical-activity). 
Individuals with SMI are significantly less active than the general population 
(Shor and Shalev, 2014). It is sometimes difficult for the average individual to 
obtain the recommended 10,000 steps and even more difficult for those with SMI. 
Lifestyle modifications, in particular diet and exercise, are recommended for 
improvement of chronic disease outcomes (US Preventive Services Counseling Task 
Force, 2016). The health benefits of physical activity for people with SMI are 
mixed (Pearsall R, Smith D, Pelosi A, Geddes J. Exercise therapy in adults with 
serious mental illness: A systematic review and meta-analysis. BMC Psychiatr. 
2014;14:117). Some studies found significant physical health benefits, while 
others did not. However, according to a review by Soundy et al., physical 
exercise is shown to not only have physical benefits but also psychosocial 
benefits. One of the barriers that hinder participation in physical activities 
is accessibility (Shor and Shalev, 2014). Integrating a more personalized 
supported, and in-home pedometer program into mental healthcare should ensure 
better access to interventions that could possibly reverse the causes of 
premature death.
METHODS: The program was offered to 69 veterans in the MHICM. Forty-nine agreed 
to start the program and 20 declined. Twenty-five clients actually started the 
program with 17 veterans completing it. Preimplementation data included 
collecting blood pressure and weight measures for all veterans in the MHICM 
program. Additionally, a focus group was held with case managers to obtain a 
group perspective on motivating veterans to participate in this program. 
Further, a teaching session was held to review pedometers use, the client video, 
the client booklet, methods for getting veterans started, and the progression of 
the walking intervention. The pedometer physical activity intervention continued 
for 2 months. At the end of the 2 months, aggregate de-identified data on number 
of steps, blood pressure, and weight were collected. At the end of the program, 
the data were reviewed, synthesized, and analyzed, being careful to account for 
potentially intervening conditions and other chronic illnesses.
RESULTS: The postimplementation data revealed that the mean weight decreased by 
9 lbs. The percentage of controlled blood pressure increased from 60 to 84, 
while the percentage of uncontrolled blood pressure decreased from 40 to 16.
CONCLUSION: Implementation of a multiple component personalized exercise 
intervention program for veterans with SMI contributed to reduction in weight 
and blood pressure.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/ppc.12233
PMID: 28762507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. J Med Econ. 2017 Nov;20(11):1187-1199. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2017.1363050.
Epub  2017 Aug 14.

Cost-effectiveness of 3-month paliperidone therapy for chronic schizophrenia in 
the Netherlands.

Einarson TR(1), Bereza BG(1), Tedouri F(2), Van Impe K(3), Denee TR(3), Dries 
PJT(4).

Author information:
(1)a Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy , University of Toronto , Toronto , ON , 
Canada.
(2)b Janssen Janssen Pharmaceutica NV , Beerse , Belgium.
(3)c Janssen-Cilag BV , Tilburg , The Netherlands.
(4)d Bavo Europoort , Rotterdam , The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: A new depot formulation of paliperidone has been developed that 
provides effective treatment for schizophrenia for 3 months (PP3M). It has been 
tested in phase-3 trials, but no data on its cost-effectiveness have been 
published.
PURPOSE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of PP3M compared with once-monthly 
paliperidone (PP1M), haloperidol long-acting therapy (HAL-LAT), risperidone 
microspheres (RIS-LAT), and oral olanzapine (oral-OLZ) for treating chronic 
schizophrenia in The Netherlands.
METHODS: A previous 1-year decision tree was adapted, based on local inputs 
supplemented with data from published literature. The primary analysis used DRG 
costs in 2016 euros from the insurer perspective, as derived from official 
lists. A micro-costing analysis was also conducted. For the costing scenario, 
official list prices were used. Clinical outcomes included relapses (treated as 
outpatients, requiring hospitalization, total), and quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs). Rates and utility scores were derived from the literature. Economic 
outcomes were the incremental cost/QALY-gained or relapse-avoided. Model 
robustness was examined in scenario, 1-way, and probability sensitivity 
analyses.
RESULTS: The expected cost was lowest with PP3M (8,781€), followed by PP1M 
(10,325€), HAL-LAT (11,278€), RIS-LAT (11,307€), and oral-OLZ (13,556€). PP3M 
had the fewest total relapses/patient (0.36, 0.94, 1.39, 1.21, and 1.70, 
respectively), hospitalizations (0.11, 0.46, 0.40, 0.56, and 0.57, 
respectively), emergency room visits (0.25, 0.48. 0.99, 0.65, and 1.14, 
respectively) and the most QALYs (0.847, 0.735, 0.709, 0.719, and 0.656, 
respectively). In both cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analyses, PP3M 
dominated all other drugs. Sensitivity analyses confirmed base case findings. In 
the costing analysis, total costs were, on average, 31.9% higher than DRGs.
CONCLUSIONS: PP3M dominated all commonly used drugs. It is cost-effective for 
treating chronic schizophrenia in the Netherlands. Results were robust over a 
wide range of sensitivity analyses. For patients requiring a depot medication, 
such as those with adherence problems, PP3M appears to be a good alternative 
anti-psychotic treatment.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2017.1363050
PMID: 28762843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Kardiologiia. 2017 May;57(5):50-56.

[ECG Predictors of Prognostically Unfavorable Coronary Artery Lesions].

[Article in Russian]

Tsoy IR(1), Kolos IP(1), Strazhesko ID(1).

Author information:
(1)Federal State Institution National Research Center for Preventive Medicine, 
Moscow, Russia.

Medical treatment of most patients with ischemic heart disease is comparable to 
revascularization by the effect on major adverse cardiovascular events 
(myocardial infarction, cardiovascular and overall mortality), and in the long 
term, on quality of life. However, revascularization of the left main coronary 
artery lesion and lesions in the proximal segment of the anterior descending 
artery leads to a significant increase in life expectancy. ECG methods of 
detection of such prognostically unfavorable lesions of the coronary arteries 
can significantly optimize the management, hasten revascularization of the 
myocardium. In this review we have analyzed ECG methods of diagnosis of 
prognostically unfavorable lesions of the coronary arteries.

PMID: 28762921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Prof Inferm. 2017 Apr-Jun;70(2):93-101. doi: 10.7429/pi.2017.702093.

[The most cited themes in the research in the field of Mental Health: analyses 
of six international nursing and medical journals].

[Article in Italian; Abstract available in Italian from the publisher]

Cunico L(1), Fredo S(2), Bernini M(3).

Author information:
(1)Infermiera, Professore a contratto di Infermieristica, Corso di Laurea in 
Infermieristica, Università degli Studi di Verona. Corrispondence: 
laura.cunico@univr.it.
(2)Infermiera, Centro di Salute Mentale, 3^ Servizio Psichiatrico - Azienda 
Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata di Verona.
(3)Medico Psichiatra, Associate of MRCPsych, Consultant in General Adult 
Psychiatry, Brent Community Recovery Team, 15 Brondesbury Road, London NW6 6 BX.

INTRODUCTION: The review aimed to identify and analyse the future development on 
the topic by analysing the main themes discussed in number of scientific journal 
focused on Mental Health both by nurses and physicians..
METHOD: 4 international journals focused on Mental health and psychiatry 
International Journal of Mental Health Nursing, Archives of Psychiatric Nursing, 
American Journal of Psychiatry, Australian and New Zeland Journal of Psychiatry 
as well as two journal focused generically on health, Journal of Advanced 
Nursing and Lancet were scrutinized. We have analysed the papers of 2012-2015 
for the specialised journals and last and first 6 months of 2012 and 2013 and 
2014-2015 for the generic. Editorials, comments and contributions regarding 
theoretical models were exluded. From the analysis we identified 9 themes and 
for each theme the pertinent category. For the diagnostic grouping we used the 
International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems 
10th Revision.
RESULTS: A trend in research about mood disorders, schizophrenia and addictions 
and comorbidity emerged according to the 2099 abstracts analysed. Within medical 
research antidepressants were the most studied psychotropic medication and 
cognitive behaviour therapy was the most studied psychotherapy. Within nursing 
research: the nurse-patient relationship, adherence and monitoring of 
pharmacological therapy, the treatment planning and the working environment, the 
nursing training and its efficacy. The clinical research trials were twice as 
frequent in the medical versus nursing research where qualitative research 
prevails.
CONCLUSION: The research challenge will be to find a new paradigm fit for the 
future psychiatry having at its disposition the patient's genoma, and needing to 
routinely use biomarkers for a personalised therapy. A further challenge might 
be the promotion of interprofessional research between doctors and nurses and 
the acquisition of new competences of health professionals needed to tackle the 
reduced life expectancy of psychiatric patients and to address not only their 
mental illnesses but also their physical ailments.

Publisher: INTRODUZIONE: L’obiettivo della revisione è individuare le tematiche 
principali su cui si è concentrata maggiormente la ricerca infermieristica e 
medica nell’ambito della salute mentale, valutarne le differenze e discutere le 
problematiche che possono sorgere nello svolgimento della ricerca in questo 
settore.
METODI: Abbiamo analizzato la ricerca pubblicata in 4 riviste specialistiche 
della salute mentale/psichiatria: International Journal of Mental Health 
Nursing, Archives of Psychiatric Nursing; American Journal of Psychiatry, 
Australian and New Zeland Journal of Psychiatry e in 2 riviste generaliste 
dell’area infermieristica e medica: Journal of Advanced Nursing e Lancet. Gli 
anni considerati 2012-2015 per le riviste specialistiche, il secondo semestre 
del 2012 e 2014 e il primo del 2013 e 2015 per le generiche. Esclusi gli 
editoriali, i commenti, i contributi riguardanti modelli, teorie. Dalla lettura 
e conseguente analisi sono stati individuati 9 temi e per ogni tema le categorie 
di pertinenza. Per la categoria diagnostica il riferimento è l’International 
Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems - versione 10 
(ICD-10).
RISULTATI: Dall’analisi di 2099 abstracts emerge un orientamento generale della 
ricerca sui disturbi dell’umore, schizofrenia, dipendenze e co-morbidità. Nella 
ricerca medica, gli antidepressivi sono i farmaci più studiati e tra le 
psicoterapie, la terapia cognitivo comportamentale. Nella ricerca 
infermieristica: la relazione infermiere-paziente, l’aderenza e monitoraggio 
della terapia farmacologica, l’organizzazione delle cure, il clima lavorativo, 
la formazione infermieristica e l’efficacia di training. La sperimentazione 
clinica è più frequente nella ricerca medica, si dimezza in quella 
infermieristica dove prevale la ricerca qualitativa.
CONCLUSIONI: La sfida della ricerca sarà quella di trovare un nuovo paradigma 
adeguato alla psichiatria del futuro che avrà a disposizione dati sul genoma del 
singolo paziente e che dovrà utilizzare, routinariamente, biomarkers per una 
terapia personalizzata. Ulteriore sfida potrebbe essere la promozione di 
progetti di ricerca collaborativa tra infermieri e medici e l’acquisizione di 
competenze nuove degli operatori necessarie per affrontare la riduzione 
dell’aspettativa di vita dei pazienti psichiatrici, per la cura delle patologie 
organiche, oltre alla gestione della psicopatologia.

DOI: 10.7429/pi.2017.702093
PMID: 28763183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Atherosclerosis. 2017 Sep;264:44-50. doi:
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2017.07.023.  Epub 2017 Jul 22.

Crural Index and extensive atherosclerosis of crural vessels are associated with 
long-term cardiovascular mortality in patients with symptomatic peripheral 
artery disease.

Wickström JE(1), Jalkanen JM(1), Venermo M(2), Hakovirta HH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Turku University Hospital, University of 
Turku, Finland.
(2)Department of Vascular Surgery, University Hospital of Helsinki, Finland.
(3)Department of Vascular Surgery, Turku University Hospital, University of 
Turku, Finland. Electronic address: haheha@utu.fi.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Limited data exist on the association of the anatomical 
distribution of atherosclerotic lesions and the extent of atherosclerosis at 
defined arterial segments with life expectancy. We recently presented a new 
classification of the extent of atherosclerosis in crural vessels and showed 
that Crural Index (CIx) was associated with mid-term survival of symptomatic 
peripheral artery disease (PAD) patients. This study evaluates the significance 
of the extent of crural atherosclerosis on long-term cardiovascular mortality.
METHODS: 887 consecutive patients with PAD, admitted for digital subtraction 
angiography (DSA) at Turku University Hospital Department of Vascular Surgery 
(Turku, Finland) between January 1st, 2009 and July 30th, 2011, were 
retrospectively analysed. Each crural angiographic image was graded according to 
CIx criteria. Aorto-iliac and femoro-popliteal arterial segments were similarly 
graded according to modified TASC II criteria. CIx was used as the categorical 
variable for the extent of atherosclerosis in crural vessels for survival 
analysis. Survival was also evaluated with respect to which arterial segment was 
most severely affected. Causes of death were provided by the Cause of Death 
Registry of Statistics Finland, updated on January 23rd, 2017.
RESULTS: Altogether, 408 (46%) patients died during follow-up. The majority of 
deaths were due to cardiovascular causes (n = 246, 60%). Cardiovascular 
mortality was strongly associated with a high CIx (CIx III (Hazard ratio (HR) 
2.16, Confidence interval (CI) 95% 1.23-3.80, p = 0.007)) and CIx IV (HR 3.513, 
95% CI 1.93-4.565, p < 0.001), as compared to CIx 0. In patients having the 
crural segment as the most severely affected arterial segment, cardiovascular 
mortality was significantly increased (HR 2.321, 95% CI 1.45-3.73, p < 0.001), 
as was overall mortality (HR 2.177, 95% CI 1.53-3.10, p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: High Crural Index and extensive crural vessel atherosclerosis are 
associated with long-term cardiovascular mortality, and both may serve as useful 
indicators of survival among patients with symptomatic PAD.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2017.07.023
PMID: 28763728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Food Chem. 2017 Dec 15;237:553-560. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2017.05.156.
Epub  2017 May 31.

Shelf-life extension of semi-dried buckwheat noodles by the combination of 
aqueous ozone treatment and modified atmosphere packaging.

Bai YP(1), Guo XN(1), Zhu KX(2), Zhou HM(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu Province, PR China; School of Food Science and Technology, 
Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu Province, PR China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu Province, PR China; School of Food Science and Technology, 
Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu Province, PR China. Electronic 
address: kxzhu@jiangnan.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu Province, PR China; School of Food Science and Technology, 
Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu Province, PR China. Electronic 
address: hmzhou@jiangnan.edu.cn.

The present study investigated the combined effects of aqueous ozone treatment 
and modified atmosphere packaging (MAP) on prolonging the shelf-life of 
semi-dried buckwheat noodles [SBWN; moisture content (22.5±0.5%)] at 25°C. 
Firstly, the different concentrations of ozonated water were used to make SBWN. 
Subsequently, SBWN prepared with ozonated water were packaged under six 
different conditions and stored for 11days. Changes in microbial, 
chemical-physical, textural properties and sensorial qualities of SWBN were 
monitored during storage. Microbiological results indicated that adopting 
2.21mg/L of ozonated water resulted in a 1.8 log10 CFU/g reduction of the 
initial microbial loads in SBWN. In addition, MAP suppressed the microbial 
growth with a concomitant reduction in the rates of acidification and quality 
deteriorations of SBWN. Finally, the shelf-life of sample packed under 
N2:CO2=30:70 was extended to 9days, meanwhile textural and sensorial 
characteristics were maintained during the whole storage period.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2017.05.156
PMID: 28764034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. J Clin Diagn Res. 2017 Jun;11(6):LC10-LC13. doi:
10.7860/JCDR/2017/22766.10014.  Epub 2017 Jun 1.

Prevalence and Patterns of Multimorbidity among Human Immunodeficiency Virus 
Positive People in Odisha, India: An Exploratory Study.

Pati S(1), Bhattacharya S(2), Swain S(3).

Author information:
(1)Director and Scientist G, Department of Health Research Centre, ICMR-Regional 
Medical Research Centre, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India.
(2)Research Associate, Department of Public Health, Indian Institute of Public 
Health, Public Health Foundation of India, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India.
(3)Tutor, Department of Public Health, Indian Institute of Public Health, Public 
Health Foundation of India, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India.

INTRODUCTION: Improved and efficient Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ART) has turned 
HIV positive into a chronic disorder. The increase in life expectancy and 
quality of life comes with an increased risk of multimorbidity from the 
traditional risk factors.
AIM: To explore the prevalence of multimorbidity among People Living with HIV 
(PLHIV).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: An exploratory cross-sectional study was carried out in 
an ART center of Odisha, India, from November 2013 to December 2013. A 
systematic random sampling was done to include 197 adult HIV positive patients 
receiving ART at least for one year or more. A structured questionnaire was used 
to collect data on socio-demographic profile, ART status, multimorbidity and 
opportunistic infections.
RESULTS: The prevalence of multimorbidity was 47.7% (95% CI 41% to 55%). Among 
them, the most common chronic conditions were pulmonary tuberculosis (28.4%), 
gastro-intestinal conditions (7.1%), neural disorders (5.1%) and hypertension 
(2.5%). In total, 48.7% had opportunistic infections; with 36% bacterial, 25% 
fungal and 21% viral infections.
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of multimorbidity was high among HIV positive 
patients. Further research should explore the epidemiology of multimorbidity 
among HIV positive patients to formulate proper clinical practice guidelines to 
enhance long-term outcomes of PLHIV in the current treatment era.

DOI: 10.7860/JCDR/2017/22766.10014
PMCID: PMC5535398
PMID: 28764205


706. BMC Evol Biol. 2017 Aug 1;17(1):173. doi: 10.1186/s12862-017-1026-8.

Group demography affects ant colony performance and individual speed of queen 
and worker aging.

Giehr J(1), Heinze J(2), Schrempf A(2).

Author information:
(1)Zoology/ Evolutionary Biology, University of Regensburg, D-93053, Regensburg, 
Germany. julia.giehr@biologie.uni-regensburg.de.
(2)Zoology/ Evolutionary Biology, University of Regensburg, D-93053, Regensburg, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND: The performance and fitness of social societies mainly depends on 
the efficiency of interactions between reproductive individuals and helpers. 
Helpers need to react to the group's requirements and to adjust their tasks 
accordingly, while the reproductive individual has to adjust its reproductive 
rate. Social insects provide a good system to study the interrelations between 
individual and group characteristics. In general, sterile workers focus on brood 
care and foraging while the queen lays eggs. Reproductive division of labor is 
determined by caste and not interchangeable as, e.g., in social mammals or 
birds. Hence, changing social and environmental conditions require a flexible 
response by each caste. In the ant Cardiocondyla obscurior, worker task 
allocation is based on age polyethism, with young workers focusing on brood care 
and old workers on foraging. Here, we examine how group age demography affects 
colony performance and fitness in colonies consisting of only old or young 
workers and a single old or young queen. We hypothesized that both groups will 
be fully functional, but that the forced task shift affects the individuals' 
performance. Moreover, we expected reduced worker longevity in groups with only 
young workers due to precocious foraging but no effect on queen longevity 
depending on group composition.
RESULTS: Neither the performance of queens nor that of workers declined strongly 
with time per se, but offspring number and weight were influenced by queen age 
and the interaction between queen and worker age. Individual residual life 
expectancy strongly depended on colony demography instead of physiological age. 
While worker age affected queen longevity only slightly, exposing old workers to 
the conditions of colony founding increased their life spans by up to 50% 
relative to workers that had emerged shortly before colony set-up.
CONCLUSIONS: The social environment strongly affected the tempo of aging and 
senescence in C. obscurior, highlighting the plasticity of life expectancy in 
social insects. Furthermore, colonies obtained the highest reproductive output 
when consisting of same-aged queens and workers independent of their 
physiological age. However, workers appeared to be able to adjust their behavior 
to the colony's needs and not to suffer from age-dependent restrictions.

DOI: 10.1186/s12862-017-1026-8
PMCID: PMC5540184
PMID: 28764664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: 
Collecting of Brazilian colonies was allowed by Ministério do Meio Ambiente—MMA 
(Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis—IBAMA; 
Instituto Chico Mendes de Conservação da Biodiversidade—ICMBio) Número: 20324–1. 
Cardiocondyla obscurior is not protected and an invasive tramp species. All 
animal treatment guidelines applicable to ants under international and German 
law have been followed. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING 
INTERESTS: The author(s) declare(s) that they have no competing interests. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


707. BMC Psychiatry. 2017 Aug 1;17(1):280. doi: 10.1186/s12888-017-1437-5.

Economic evaluation of stepped-care versus usual care for depression and anxiety 
in older adults with vision impairment: randomized controlled trial.

van der Aa HPA(1), van Rens GHMB(2)(3), Bosmans JE(4), Comijs HC(5), van Nispen 
RMA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and the Amsterdam Public Health Research 
Institute, VU University Medical Centre, De Boelelaan 1117, 1081, Amsterdam, HV, 
The Netherlands. h.vanderaa@vumc.nl.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology and the Amsterdam Public Health Research 
Institute, VU University Medical Centre, De Boelelaan 1117, 1081, Amsterdam, HV, 
The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Elkerliek Hospital, Wesselmanlaan 25, 5707, 
Helmond, HA, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Health Sciences and the Amsterdam Public Health Research 
Institute, Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences, VU University Amsterdam, De 
Boelelaan 1105, 1081, Amsterdam, HV, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Psychiatry VUmc/GGZinGeest, A.J.Ernststraat 1187, 1081, 
Amsterdam, HL, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: A stepped-care program was found effective in preventing depressive 
and anxiety disorders in older adults with vision impairment. However, before a 
decision can be made about implementation, the cost-effectiveness of this 
program should be investigated. Therefore, we aimed to compare the 
cost-effectiveness of stepped-care versus usual care within low vision 
rehabilitation.
METHODS: An economic evaluation from a societal perspective was performed 
alongside a multicenter randomized controlled trial. Data were collected by 
masked assessors during 24 months. Included were 265 older adults with vision 
impairment and subthreshold depression and/or anxiety. They were randomly 
assigned to stepped-care plus usual care (n = 131) or usual care alone 
(n = 134). Stepped-care comprised 1) watchful waiting, 2) guided self-help based 
on cognitive behavioral therapy, 3) problem solving treatment, and 4) referral 
to a general practitioner. Costs were based on direct healthcare costs and 
indirect non-healthcare costs. Main outcome measures were quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) and the cumulative incidence of major depressive, dysthymic and/or 
anxiety disorders. Secondary outcomes were symptoms of depression and anxiety.
RESULTS: Based on intention-to-treat, significant differences were found in the 
incidence of depressive/anxiety disorders (mean difference 0.17; 95% CI 0.06 to 
0.29) and symptoms of anxiety (mean difference 1.43, 95% CI 0.10 to 2.77) in 
favor of stepped-care versus usual care; no significant difference was found for 
QALYs and symptoms of depression. Societal costs were non-significantly lower in 
the stepped-care group compared with the usual care group (mean difference: 
-€877; 95% confidence interval (CI): -8039 to 5489). Cost-effectiveness 
acceptability curves showed that the probability of cost-effectiveness was 95% 
or more at a willingness-to-pay of €33,000 per disorder prevented. The 
probability that stepped-care was cost-effective compared to usual care was 59% 
or more for a ceiling ratio of 0 €/QALY and increased to 65% at 20000 €/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: This economic evaluation shows that stepped-care is dominant to 
usual care, with a probability of around 60%, due to its clinical superiority 
and its modest cost savings. However, it depends on the willingness-to-pay of 
decision makers whether or not stepped-care is considered cost-effective 
compared with usual care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: identifier: NTR3296 , date: 13-02-2012.

DOI: 10.1186/s12888-017-1437-5
PMCID: PMC5539614
PMID: 28764679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The 
study was conducted according to the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki, 
and approved by the Medical Ethics Committee of the University Hospital Leuven 
and the VU University Medical Centre Amsterdam. All participants provided 
written informed consent after explanation of the nature and possible 
consequences of the study. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING 
INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing interests. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


708. BMJ Open. 2017 Aug 1;7(7):e015645. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-015645.

Cost-utility and budget impact analyses of the use of NEPA for 
chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting prophylaxis in Italy.

Restelli U(1)(2), Saibene G(3), Nardulli P(4), Di Turi R(5), Bonizzoni E(6), 
Scolari F(1), Perrone T(7), Croce D(1)(2), Celio L(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research on Health Economics, Social and Health Care Management 
(CREMS), Castellanza, Italy.
(2)School of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the 
Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(3)Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Milan, Italy.
(4)Istituto Tumori Giovanni Paolo II, IRCCS, National Cancer Institute, Bari, 
Italy.
(5)Dipartimento dei Servizi, Azienda Sanitaria Locale Roma 3, Rome, Italy.
(6)Department of Clinical Science and Community, Section of Medical Statistics, 
Biometry and Epidemiology "GA Maccacaro", University of Milan, Milan, Italy.
(7)Department of Medical Affairs, Italfarmaco Spa, Cinisello Balsamo (MI), 
Italy.

Erratum in
    BMJ Open. 2017 Dec 22;7(12 ):e015645corr1.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficiency of resources allocation and sustainability 
of the use of netupitant+palonosetron (NEPA) for chemotherapy-induced nausea and 
vomiting (CINV) prophylaxis assuming the Italian National Health Service (NHS) 
perspective. A published Markov model was adapted to assess the incremental 
cost-utility ratio of NEPA compared with aprepitant (APR) + palonosetron (PALO), 
fosaprepitant (fAPR) + PALO, APR + ondansetron (ONDA), fAPR + ONDA in patients 
receiving a highly emetogenic chemotherapy (HEC) and with APR + PALO and fAPR + 
PALO in patients receiving a moderately emetogenic chemotherapy (MEC).
SETTING: Oncology hospital department in Italy.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to determine the impact of NEPA on the budget 
of the Italian NHS on a 5-day time horizon, corresponding to the acute and 
delayed CINV prophylaxis phases. Direct medical costs considered were related to 
antiemetic drugs, adverse events management, CINV episodes management. Clinical 
and quality of life data referred to previously published works. The budget 
impact analysis considered the aforementioned therapies plus PALO alone (for HEC 
and MEC) on a 5-year time horizon, comparing two scenarios: one considering the 
use of NEPA and one not considering its use.
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental cost per quality adjusted 
life year (QALY) and differential economic impact for the Italian NHS between 
the two scenarios considered.
RESULTS: NEPA is more effective and less expensive (dominant) compared with APR 
+ PALO (for HEC and MEC), fAPR + PALO (for HEC and MEC), APR + ONDA (for HEC), 
fAPR + ONDA (for HEC). The use of NEPA would lead to a 5-year cost decrease of 
€63.7 million (€42.7 million for HEC and €20.9 million for MEC).
CONCLUSIONS: NEPA allows an efficient allocation of resources for the Italian 
NHS and it is sustainable, leading to a cost decrease compared with a scenario 
which does not consider its use.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2017. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-015645
PMCID: PMC5642784
PMID: 28765126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: UR declares advisory board 
fees from Bayer and Italfarmaco. GS, PN, RDT, FS and DC declare no conflict of 
interests. EB declares grants from Italfarmaco Spa, Zambon Spa and Polichem SA. 
TP is employed by Italfarmaco Spa. LC declares personal fees from Italfarmaco 
Spa and Helsinn Healthcare SA.


709. Public Health Res Pract. 2017 Jul 26;27(3):2731722. doi:
10.17061/phrp2731722.

What is overdiagnosis and why should we take it seriously in cancer screening?

Carter SM(1), Barratt A(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Values, Ethics and the Law in Medicine, University of Sydney, NSW, 
Australia, stacy.carter@sydney.edu.au.
(2)Centre for Values, Ethics and the Law in Medicine, University of Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.

Overdiagnosis occurs in a population when conditions are diagnosed correctly but 
the diagnosis produces an unfavourable balance between benefits and harms. In 
cancer screening, overdiagnosed cancers are those that did not need to be found 
because they would not have produced symptoms or led to premature death. These 
overdiagnosed cancers can be distinguished from false positives, which occur 
when an initial screening test suggests that a person is at high risk but 
follow-up testing shows them to be at normal risk. The cancers most likely to be 
overdiagnosed through screening are those of the prostate, thyroid, breast and 
lung. Overdiagnosis in cancer screening arises largely from the paradoxical 
problem that screening is most likely to find the slow-growing or dormant 
cancers that are least likely to harm us, and less likely to find the 
aggressive, fast-growing cancers that cause cancer mortality. This central 
paradox has become clearer over recent decades. The more overdiagnosis is 
produced by a screening program, the less likely the program is to serve its 
ultimate goal of reducing illness and premature death from cancer. Thus, it is 
vital that health professionals and researchers continue an open, scientific 
inquiry into the extent and consequences of overdiagnosis, and devise 
appropriate responses to it.

DOI: 10.17061/phrp2731722
PMID: 28765855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: SC received travel funding related to this work 
from the Preventing Overdiagnosis Conference 2017, hosted by the Quebec Medical 
Association. AB received travel funding related to this work from the Australian 
Government and the Cochrane Collaboration.


710. Hautarzt. 2017 Sep;68(9):721-726. doi: 10.1007/s00105-017-4022-4.

[Treatment of indolent cutaneous B‑cell lymphoma].

[Article in German]

Wobser M(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Dermatologie, Venerologie und Allergologie, 
Josef-Schneider-Str. 2, 97080, Würzburg, Deutschland. Wobser_M@ukw.de.

Primary cutaneous B‑cell lymphomas are rarely encountered and represent 25% of 
all cutaneous lymphomas. Follicular B‑cell lymphoma and marginal zone lymphoma 
belong to indolent subtypes which as a rule have no systemic dissemination and, 
thus, a mostly unchanged life expectancy. Therefore, skin-directed treatment 
options such as excision or radiotherapy are usually sufficient to control the 
disease. In contrast, cutaneous diffuse large B‑cell lymphoma and EBV-associated 
B‑cell lymphomas of the skin belong to more aggressive entities which demand 
a systemic first-line upfront therapy with R‑CHOP. Nevertheless, mortality is 
still high and comparable to that of systemic/nodal large B‑cell lymphomas so 
that the identification of pathogenetic driver mutations or novel therapeutic 
targets may pave the way to better target-oriented therapies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00105-017-4022-4
PMID: 28766120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Scand J Rheumatol. 2018 Mar;47(2):1-101. doi: 10.1080/03009742.2017.1314002.
 Epub 2017 Aug 2.

Burden of rheumatoid arthritis in the Nordic region, 1990-2015: a comparative 
analysis using the Global Burden of Disease Study 2015.

Kiadaliri AA(1), Kristensen LE(2)(3), Englund M(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)a Lund University, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Clinical Sciences-Lund, 
Orthopaedics, Clinical Epidemiology Unit , Lund , Sweden.
(2)b The Parker Institute, Bispebjerg and Frederiksberg Hospitals , University 
of Copenhagen , Copenhagen , Denmark.
(3)c Department of Rheumatology , Lund University Hospital , Lund , Sweden.
(4)d Clinical Epidemiology Research and Training Unit , Boston University School 
of Medicine , Boston , MA , USA.

OBJECTIVE: To report mortality and disability due to rheumatoid arthritis (RA) 
in the Nordic region (Denmark, Finland, Greenland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden) 
using data from the Global Burden of Disease Study (GBD) 2015.
METHOD: Using the results of GBD 2015, we present rates and trends in 
prevalence, mortality, years of life lost, years lived with disability (YLD), 
and disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) of RA in the Nordic region during 
1990-2015.
RESULTS: In 2015, the age-standardized prevalence of RA was higher in the Nordic 
region than the global level (0.44%, 95% uncertainty interval 0.40-0.48%, vs 
0.35%, 0.32-0.38%). For women (men), DALYs increased by 2.4% (12.9%), from 
29 263 (10 909) in 1990 to 29 966 (12 311) in 2015. The burden of RA as a 
proportion of total DALYs in women (men) increased from 0.90% (0.29%) in 1990 to 
0.94% (0.36%) in 2015. Age-standardized DALY rates declined in all countries 
except Denmark and Greenland between 1990 and 2015. Of 315 conditions studied, 
RA was ranked as the 16th (37th) leading cause of YLD in women (men) in the 
region. Of 195 countries studied, Greenland, Finland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, 
and Iceland had the 7th, 11th, 28th, 38th, 48th, and 78th highest 
age-standardized YLD rates for RA, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of RA in the Nordic region is higher than the global 
average. Current trends in population growth and ageing suggest a potential 
increase in RA burden in the coming decades in the region that should be 
considered in healthcare resources allocation.

DOI: 10.1080/03009742.2017.1314002
PMID: 28766390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. J Clin Psychiatry. 2017 Sep/Oct;78(8):e970-e979. doi: 10.4088/JCP.16m11194.

Preventive Effects of Suvorexant on Delirium: A Randomized Placebo-Controlled 
Trial.

Hatta K(1)(2), Kishi Y(3), Wada K(4), Takeuchi T(5), Ito S(3), Kurata A(4), 
Murakami K(5), Sugita M(6), Usui C(2), Nakamura H(7); DELIRIA-J Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Juntendo University Nerima Hospital, Takanodai 
3-1-10, Nerima-ku, Tokyo 177-8521, Japan. khatta@juntendo.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Juntendo University Nerima Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Nippon Medical School Musashikosugi Hospital, 
Kawasaki, Japan.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Hiroshima City Hospital, Hiroshima, Japan.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Department of Emergency and Critical Care Medicine, Juntendo University 
Nerima Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(7)Department of Environmental and Preventive Medicine, Kanazawa University 
Graduate School of Medical Science, Kanazawa, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: No highly effective pharmacologic interventions to prevent delirium 
have been identified. We examined whether suvorexant, a potent and selective 
orexin receptor antagonist, is effective for the prevention of delirium.
METHODS: We conducted a multicenter, rater-blinded, randomized, 
placebo-controlled clinical trial in intensive care units and regular acute 
wards between April 2015 and March 2016. Eligible patients were 65 to 89 years 
old, newly admitted due to emergency, and able to take medicine orally and had 
an expected stay or life expectancy of 48 hours or more. Seventy-two patients 
were randomly assigned using the sealed envelope method to receive suvorexant 
(15 mg/d; 36 patients) or placebo (36 patients) every night for 3 days. The 
primary outcome measure was incidence of delirium as determined by the DSM-5. 
Trained psychiatrists assessed for delirium.
RESULTS: We found that delirium developed significantly less often among 
patients taking suvorexant than among those taking placebo (0% [n/N = 0/36] vs 
17% [6/36], respectively, P = .025). Comparison by log-rank test also showed 
that delirium developed significantly less often among patients taking 
suvorexant than among those taking placebo (χ² = 6.46, P = .011). Analysis of 
variance revealed a tendency for main effect of treatment (F = 3.79, P = .053) 
on the sleep-wake cycle disturbance score (item 1) of the Japanese version of 
the Delirium Rating Scale-Revised-98 (DRS-R-98-J). There were no significant 
differences in adverse events.
CONCLUSIONS: Suvorexant administered nightly to elderly patients admitted for 
acute care may provide protection against delirium. Larger studies are needed to 
show the potential of suvorexant to improve the circadian core domain of 
delirium.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: UMIN Clinical Trials Registry identifier: UMIN000015681​.

© Copyright 2017 Physicians Postgraduate Press, Inc.

DOI: 10.4088/JCP.16m11194
PMID: 28767209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Pain. 2017 Nov;158(11):2259-2267. doi: 10.1097/j.pain.0000000000001028.

Bleeding out the quality-adjusted life years: evaluating the burden of primary 
dysmenorrhea using time trade-off and willingness-to-pay methods.

Rencz F(1), Péntek M(1), Stalmeier PFM(2), Brodszky V(1), Ruzsa G(3)(4), 
Gradvohl E(5), Baji P(1), Gulácsi L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics, Corvinus University of Budapest, Budapest, 
Hungary.
(2)Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(3)Eötvös Loránd University of Sciences, Institute of Psychology, Doctoral 
