An efficient method for kidney allocation problem: a credibility-based fuzzy 
common weights data envelopment analysis approach.

Ahmadvand S(1), Pishvaee MS(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Industrial Engineering, Iran University of Science & Technology, 
Tehran, Iran.
(2)School of Industrial Engineering, Iran University of Science & Technology, 
Tehran, Iran. pishvaee@iust.ac.ir.

Given the perennial imbalance and chronic scarcity between the demand for and 
supply of available organs, organ allocation is one of the most critical 
decisions in the management of organ transplantation networks. Organ allocation 
systems undergo rapid revisions for the sake of improved outcomes in terms of 
both equity and medical efficiency. This paper presents a Data Envelopment 
Analysis (DEA)-based model to evaluate the efficiency of possible patient-organ 
pairs for kidney allocation in order to enhance the fitness of organ allocation 
under inherent uncertainty in such problem. Eligible patient-kidney pairs are 
regarded as decision making units (DMUs) in a Credibility-based Fuzzy Common 
Weights DEA (CFCWDEA) approach and are ranked based on efficiency scores. Using 
a common set of weights for all DMUs ensures a high degree of fairness in the 
assessment and ranking of DMUs. The proposed model is also the first allocation 
method capable of coping with the vague and intervallic medical and nonmedical 
allocation factors by the aid of fuzzy programming. Verification and validation 
of the proposed approach are performed in two steps using a real case study from 
the Iranian kidney allocation system. First, the superiority of the proposed 
deterministic model in enhancing allocation outcomes is demonstrated and 
analyzed. Second, the applicability of the proposed fuzzy DEA method is 
demonstrated using a series of data realizations for different credibility 
levels.

DOI: 10.1007/s10729-017-9414-6
PMID: 28795254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Biogerontology. 2017 Dec;18(6):913-929. doi: 10.1007/s10522-017-9724-6. Epub
 2017 Aug 9.

Growth factor, energy and nutrient sensing signalling pathways in metabolic 
ageing.

Bettedi L(1)(2), Foukas LC(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Healthy Ageing and Department of Genetics, Evolution and 
Environment, University College London, London, UK.
(2)Cell Biology and Neurobiology Branch, National Institutes of Child Health and 
Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(3)Institute of Healthy Ageing and Department of Genetics, Evolution and 
Environment, University College London, London, UK. l.foukas@ucl.ac.uk.

The field of the biology of ageing has received increasing attention from a 
biomedical point of view over the past decades. The main reason has been the 
realisation that increases in human population life expectancy are accompanied 
by late onset diseases. Indeed, ageing is the most important risk factor for a 
number of neoplastic, neurodegenerative and metabolic pathologies. Advances in 
the knowledge of the genetics of ageing, mainly through research in model 
organisms, have implicated various cellular processes and the respective 
signalling pathways that regulate them in cellular and organismal ageing. 
Associated with ageing is a dysregulation of metabolic homeostasis usually 
manifested as age-related obesity, diminished insulin sensitivity and impaired 
glucose and lipid homeostasis. Metabolic deterioration contributes to the ageing 
phenotype and metabolic pathologies are thought to be one of the main factors 
limiting the potential for lifespan extension. Great efforts have been directed 
towards identifying pharmacological interventions with the potential to improve 
healthspan and a number of natural and synthetic compounds have shown promise in 
achieving beneficial metabolic effects.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-017-9724-6
PMCID: PMC5684302
PMID: 28795262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2017 Aug 10;18(9):53. doi:
10.1007/s11864-017-0497-6.

Diagnostic and Therapeutic Strategies for Patients with Malignant Epidural 
Spinal Cord Compression.

Patel DA(1), Campian JL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Oncology, Washington University in St 
Louis School of Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, Campus Box 8056, St Louis, 
MO, 63110, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, Division of Oncology, Washington University in St 
Louis School of Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, Campus Box 8056, St Louis, 
MO, 63110, USA. campian.jian@wustl.edu.

Malignant epidural spinal cord compression (MESCC) is an oncologic emergency 
with the potential for devastating consequences for patients if not promptly 
diagnosed and treated. MESCC is diagnosed by imaging. MRI is by far the most 
sensitive test, preferably with gadolinium. Once the diagnosis of MESCC is 
suspected, patients with neurologic deficits should receive prompt 
administration of dexamethasone with a 10-mg IV loading dose followed by 4 mg 
every 6 h. Quick taper is recommended once the definitive treatment is 
established. Consultation with medical oncology, radiation oncology, and 
neurosurgery is imperative in order to facilitate a multidisciplinary approach. 
Although spine surgery is the most effective method for relief of cord 
compression and is necessary if there is spinal instability, surgery is only 
used in selected patients because most patients have a poor overall condition 
and short life expectancy. Radiation therapy, therefore, is the most commonly 
used therapy for patients with MESCC after surgical decompression or in patients 
who are not surgical candidates. Conventional fractionated radiation alone can 
achieve modest neurologic outcomes in selected radiosensitive tumors. 
Radiosurgery techniques which deliver intense focal irradiation to a delimited 
area with imaging guidance and contoured radiation delivery to the shape of the 
tumor have recently emerged as increasing effective treatments in MESCC, 
especially in radioresistant tumors. Stereotactic radiosurgery and different 
radiation technologies have been studied in recent clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-017-0497-6
PMID: 28795286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Curr Treat Options Gastroenterol. 2017 Sep;15(3):333-348. doi: 
10.1007/s11938-017-0145-z.

Endoscopic Palliation of Pancreatic Cancer.

Gohil VB(1), Klapman JB(2).

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Tumor Program, Section of Endoscopic Oncology, Moffitt 
Cancer Center, 12902 USF Magnolia Drive, Tampa, FL, 33612, USA.
(2)Gastrointestinal Tumor Program, Section of Endoscopic Oncology, Moffitt 
Cancer Center, 12902 USF Magnolia Drive, Tampa, FL, 33612, USA. 
Jason.Klapman@moffitt.org.

Pancreas cancer is a fourth-leading cause of cancer death in the USA and its 
incidence is rising as the population is aging. The majority of patients present 
at an advanced stage due to the silent nature of the disease and treatment have 
focused more on palliation than curative intent. Gastroenterologists have become 
integral in the multidisciplinary care of these patients with a focus on 
providing endoscopic palliation of pancreas cancer. The three most common areas 
that gastroenterologists palliate endoscopically are biliary obstruction, 
cancer-related pain, and gastric outlet obstruction. To palliate biliary 
obstruction, the procedure of choice is to perform endoscopic retrograde 
cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) with biliary stent placement. We tend to place 
covered self-expandable metal stents (SEMS) due to their longer patency and 
removability unless the patient has resectable disease. Pancreas cancer pain is 
a result of tumor infiltration of the celiac plexus and can be severe and poorly 
responsive to narcotics. To improve pain control, neurolysis of the celiac 
plexus has been performed for decades. Since 1996, neurolysis of the celiac area 
has been performed endoscopically by Endoscopic Ultrasound-Guided Celiac Plexus 
Neurolysis. This has proven to be as safe and effective as traditional 
non-endoscopic methods and has allowed the patients to decrease their narcotic 
use and improve their pain control. This should be done early on in the course 
of the disease to have maximal effect. Gastric outlet obstruction (GOO) occurs 
in approximately 15-20% of patients with pancreas cancer. Endoscopic palliation 
of GOO can be performed by placing uncovered metal enteral stents across the 
obstruction. This procedure has proven to be very effective in patients who have 
a short life expectancy (less than two to 6 months) while surgical bypass should 
be considered for patients with longer life expectancies because it offers 
better long-term symptom relief. This chapter will review the current 
literature, latest advancements, and optimal techniques for endoscopic 
palliation of pancreatic cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s11938-017-0145-z
PMID: 28795293


816. Pharmacoeconomics. 2018 Jan;36(1):91-103. doi: 10.1007/s40273-017-0557-6.

Adjuvant Trastuzumab Therapy for Early HER2-Positive Breast Cancer in Iran: A 
Cost-Effectiveness and Scenario Analysis for an Optimal Treatment Strategy.

Ansaripour A(1), Uyl-de Groot CA(2), Redekop WK(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Institute of Health Policy and 
Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. ansaripour@bmg.eur.nl.
(2)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Institute of Health Policy and 
Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Erratum in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2018 Feb 23;:

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2018 Mar;36(3):381-382.
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2018 Mar;36(3):383-384.

INTRODUCTION: Clinical guidelines have recommended a 1-year trastuzumab regimen 
as standard care for early human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 
(HER2)-positive breast cancer; however, this recommendation can have a dramatic 
impact on total drug expenditures in middle-income countries (MICs). We 
performed a cost-effectiveness analysis from the Iranian healthcare perspective 
to find an optimum duration of trastuzumab use in Iran.
METHOD: We compared four treatment strategies comprising chemotherapy and 
varying durations of trastuzumab use (no trastuzumab, 6, 9 months, and 1 year), 
and a Markov model and probabilistic sensitivity analysis were used to estimate 
the costs and effects of the strategies. We then examined the cost effectiveness 
of the strategies at different willingness-to-pay (WTP) thresholds and ages at 
onset of treatment.
RESULTS: Incremental costs (versus no trastuzumab) were €8826 (6 months), 
€13,808 (9 months) and €18,588 (12 months), while incremental quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) were 0.65 (6 months), 0.87 (9 months) and 1.14 (12 months). 
At a threshold of 3 × gross domestic product (GDP)/capita (€21,000/QALY) and for 
patients younger than 59 years, the 6-month protocol was most likely to be cost 
effective (probability of 42%). At a threshold of 4 × GDP/capita (€28,000/QALY), 
the 6-month and 1-year regimens were essentially equal in cost effectiveness (37 
and 35%, respectively). At this WTP threshold, the 6-month and 1-year regimens 
were optimal strategies only for patients up to 66 and 44 years of age, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: In contrast to clinical guidelines, 6 months of trastuzumab may be 
the most cost-effective option for Iran. The lower absolute WTP threshold and 
lower life expectancy compared with high-income countries are two crucial 
parameters in the cost effectiveness of interventions in MICs. It is therefore 
necessary to strike a balance between maximum population health and maintaining 
affordability in these countries.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-017-0557-6
PMCID: PMC5775392
PMID: 28795341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: FUNDING: All authors declare that they received 
no financial support for this study. CONFLICT OF INTEREST: Amir Ansaripour, 
Carin A. Uyl-de Groot, and W. Ken Redekop declare that they have no competing 
interests.


817. Biochemistry. 2017 Sep 12;56(36):4906-4921. doi:
10.1021/acs.biochem.7b00574.  Epub 2017 Aug 25.

Nucleotide Dependence of Subunit Rearrangements in Short-Form Rubisco Activase 
from Spinach.

Peterson-Forbrook DS(1), Hilton MT(1), Tichacek L(1), Henderson JN(1), Bui 
HQ(1), Wachter RM(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Molecular Sciences, School of Life Sciences, and Center for 
Bioenergy and Photosynthesis, Arizona State University , Tempe, Arizona 85287, 
United States.

Higher-plant Rubisco activase (Rca) plays a critical role in regulating the 
activity of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco). In vitro, 
Rca is known to undergo dynamic assembly-disassembly processes, with several 
oligomer stoichiometries coexisting over a broad concentration range. Although 
the hexamer appears to be the active form, changes in quaternary structure could 
play a role in Rubisco regulation. Therefore, fluorescent labels were attached 
to the C-termini of spinach β-Rca, and the rate of subunit mixing was monitored 
by measuring energy transfer as a function of nucleotide and divalent cation. 
Only dimeric units appeared to exchange. Poorly hydrolyzable substrate analogues 
provided locked complexes with high thermal stabilities (apparent Tm = 60 °C) 
and an estimated t1/2 of at least 7 h, whereas ATP-Mg provided tight assemblies 
with t1/2 values of 30-40 min and ADP-Mg loose assemblies with t1/2 values of 
<15 min. Accumulation of ADP to 20% of the total level of adenine nucleotide 
substantially accelerated equilibration. An initial lag period was observed with 
ATP·Mg, indicating inhibition of subunit exchange at low ADP concentrations. The 
ADP Ki value was estimated to exceed the Km for ATP (0.772 ± 96 mM), suggesting 
that the equilibration rate is a function of the relative contributions of high- 
and low-affinity states. C-Terminal cross-linking generated covalent dimers, 
required the N-terminal extension to the AAA+ domain, and provided evidence of 
different classes of sites. We propose that oligomer reorganization may be 
stalled during periods of high Rubisco reactivation activity, whereas changes in 
quaternary structure are stimulated by the accumulation of ADP at low light 
levels.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.biochem.7b00574
PMID: 28795566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Environ Health Perspect. 2017 Aug 7;125(8):085003. doi: 10.1289/EHP1250.

Developing the Regulatory Utility of the Exposome: Mapping Exposures for Risk 
Assessment through Lifestage Exposome Snapshots (LEnS).

Shaffer RM(1)(2), Smith MN(1)(2), Faustman EM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences, School of 
Public Health, University of Washington , Seattle, Washington, USA.
(2)Institute for Risk Analysis and Risk Communication, University of Washington 
, Seattle, Washington, USA.

BACKGROUND: Exposome-related efforts aim to document the totality of human 
exposures across the lifecourse. This field has advanced rapidly in recent years 
but lacks practical application to risk assessment, particularly for children's 
health.
OBJECTIVES: Our objective was to apply the exposome to children's health risk 
assessment by introducing the concept of Lifestage Exposome Snapshots (LEnS). 
Case studies are presented to illustrate the value of the framework.
DISCUSSION: The LEnS framework encourages organization of exposome studies based 
on windows of susceptibility for particular target organ systems. Such analyses 
will provide information regarding cumulative impacts during specific critical 
periods of the life course. A logical extension of this framework is that 
regulatory standards should analyze exposure information by target organ, rather 
than for a single chemical only or multiple chemicals grouped solely by 
mechanism of action.
CONCLUSIONS: The LEnS concept is a practical refinement to the exposome that 
accounts for total exposures during particular windows of susceptibility in 
target organ systems. Application of the LEnS framework in risk assessment and 
regulation will improve protection of children's health by enhancing protection 
of sensitive developing organ systems that are critical for lifelong health and 
well-being. https://doi.org/10.1289/EHP1250.

DOI: 10.1289/EHP1250
PMCID: PMC5783662
PMID: 28796633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. PLoS One. 2017 Aug 10;12(8):e0182951. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0182951. 
eCollection 2017.

Ranking 93 health interventions for low- and middle-income countries by 
cost-effectiveness.

Horton S(1), Gelband H(2), Jamison D(3), Levin C(3), Nugent R(4), Watkins D(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Health Systems, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, 
Ontario, Canada.
(2)Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy, Washington, DC, United 
States of America.
(3)Department of Global Health, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, 
United States of America.
(4)RTI International, Seattle, Washington, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Cost-effectiveness rankings of health interventions are useful 
inputs for national healthcare planning and budgeting. Previous comprehensive 
rankings for low- and middle- income countries were undertaken in 2005 and 2006, 
accompanying the development of strategies for the Millennium Development Goals. 
We update the rankings using studies published since 2000, as strategies are 
being considered for the Sustainable Development Goals.
METHODS: Expert systematic searches of the literature were undertaken for a 
broad range of health interventions. Cost-effectiveness results using Disability 
Adjusted Life-Years (DALYs) as the health outcome were standardized to 2012 US 
dollars.
RESULTS: 149 individual studies of 93 interventions qualified for inclusion. 
Interventions for Reproductive, Maternal, Newborn and Child Health accounted for 
37% of interventions, and major infectious diseases (AIDS, TB, malaria and 
neglected tropical diseases) for 24%, consistent with the priorities of the 
Millennium Development Goals. More than half of the interventions considered 
cost less than $200 per DALY and hence can be considered for inclusion in 
Universal Health Care packages even in low-income countries.
DISCUSSION: Important changes have occurred in rankings since 2006. Priorities 
have changed as a result of new technologies, new methods for changing behavior, 
and significant price changes for some vaccines and drugs. Achieving the 
Sustainable Development Goals will require LMICs to study a broader range of 
health interventions, particularly in adult health. Some interventions are no 
longer studied, in some cases because they have become usual care, in other 
cases because they are no longer relevant. Updating cost-effectiveness rankings 
on a regular basis is potentially a valuable exercise.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0182951
PMCID: PMC5552255
PMID: 28797115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


820. Prim Care. 2017 Sep;44(3):457-467. doi: 10.1016/j.pop.2017.05.003.

Evaluation of the Older Driver.

Dattoma LL(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, UCLA School of David Geffen, 
10945 LeConte Avenue # 2339, Los Angeles, CA 93065, USA. Electronic address: 
LDattoma@mednet.ucla.edu.

Older adults in the United States are healthier and more active than ever 
before. The number of adult drivers 65 years and older is increasing rapidly. 
However, older drivers are involved in more fatal car incidents per miles driven 
than any other age group except teenagers. Driving has become very important for 
older adults because it is critical to their independence and self-esteem. 
Therefore, the role of health care providers and the interprofessional team is 
essential to maximizing the life expectancy of driving to match the life span 
and activity levels of the older adult population.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pop.2017.05.003
PMID: 28797372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Prim Care. 2017 Sep;44(3):469-479. doi: 10.1016/j.pop.2017.04.011.

The Older Adult with Diabetes and The Busy Clinicians.

Gopalraj R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family & Geriatric Medicine, University of Louisville, 1941 
Bishop Lane, Suite 900, Louisville, KY 40218, USA. Electronic address: 
rkgopa01@louisville.edu.

Busy primary care providers are in the frontline and see the bulk of older 
adults with diabetes. This vulnerable population is more prone to diabetic 
complications and hypoglycemia. In contrast to the younger patients with 
diabetes, lifestyle interventions are even more effective in older adults while 
the target A1c levels may need to be more relaxed for frail individuals. 
Geriatric syndromes can adversely affect diabetes care. A team with experts in 
different fields who understand the needs of older adults is essential for the 
adequate quality care of the whole individual with diabetes.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pop.2017.04.011
PMID: 28797373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. JACC Cardiovasc Imaging. 2017 Aug;10(8):938-952. doi: 
10.1016/j.jcmg.2017.04.014.

Implications of Coronary Artery Calcium Testing for Treatment Decisions Among 
Statin Candidates According to the ACC/AHA Cholesterol Management Guidelines: A 
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.

Hong JC(1), Blankstein R(2), Shaw LJ(3), Padula WV(1), Arrieta A(4), Fialkow 
JA(5), Blumenthal RS(6), Blaha MJ(6), Krumholz HM(7), Nasir K(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland; Johns Hopkins School of Nursing, Baltimore, 
Maryland.
(2)Department of Medicine and Radiology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(3)Emory Clinical Cardiovascular Research Institute, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia.
(4)Department of Health Policy and Management, Robert Stempel College of Public 
Health and Social Work, Florida International University, Miami, Florida.
(5)Miami Cardiac and Vascular Institute, Baptist Health South Florida, Miami, 
Florida.
(6)The Johns Hopkins Ciccarone Center for Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease, 
Baltimore, Maryland.
(7)Center for Outcomes Research and Evaluation, Yale-New Haven Hospital, 
Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut.
(8)Miami Cardiac and Vascular Institute, Baptist Health South Florida, Miami, 
Florida; The Johns Hopkins Ciccarone Center for Prevention of Cardiovascular 
Disease, Baltimore, Maryland; Center for Health Care Advancement and Outcomes, 
Baptist Health South Florida, Miami, Florida. Electronic address: 
KhurramN@baptisthealth.net.

This review evaluates the cost-effectiveness of using coronary artery calcium 
(CAC) to guide long-term statin therapy compared with treating all patients 
eligible for statins according to 2013 American College of Cardiology/American 
Heart Association cholesterol management guidelines for atherosclerotic 
cardiovascular disease. The authors used a microsimulation model to compare 
costs and effectiveness from a societal perspective over a lifetime horizon. 
Both strategies resulted in similar costs and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs). CAC resulted in increased costs (+$81) and near-equal QALY (+0.01) for 
an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $8,100/QALY compared with the 
treat-all strategy. For 10,000 patients, the treat-all strategy would 
theoretically avert 21 atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease events, but would 
add 47,294 person-years of statins. With CAC costs <$100, and higher cost and/or 
disutility associated with statin therapy, CAC strategy was favored. These 
findings suggest the economic value of both approaches were similar. Clinicians 
should account for individual preferences in context of shared decision making 
when choosing the most appropriate strategy to guide statin decisions.

Copyright © 2017 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcmg.2017.04.014
PMID: 28797417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. J Sci Med Sport. 2018 Mar;21(3):274-279. doi: 10.1016/j.jsams.2017.07.004.
Epub  2017 Jul 12.

Reduced severity of lumbo-pelvic-hip injuries in professional Rugby Union 
players following tailored preventative programmes.

Evans KL(1), Hughes J(2), Williams MD(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Sport, Health and Outdoor Education, Faculty of Business & 
Management, University of Wales Trinity Saint David, United Kingdom; Gwent 
Dragons Rugby, United Kingdom. Electronic address: Kate.Evans@UWTSD.ac.uk.
(2)School of Sport and Exercise, Faculty of Applied Sciences, University of 
Gloucestershire, United Kingdom.
(3)School of Health, Sport and Professional Practice, Faculty of Life Sciences 
and Education, University of South Wales, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to tailor lumbo-pelvic-hip (LPH) injury 
reduction programmes in professional rugby union players based on screening data 
and examine its effectiveness.
DESIGN: Prospective case controlled study.
METHODS: Twenty-eight professional rugby union players were screened pre- and 
immediately post- the YO-YO intermittent recovery level 1 test using six hip and 
groin strength tests (adductor squeeze at 0°, 60° and 90°, prone hip extension, 
abductor, adductor hand held dynamometry). The changes in hip and groin 
measures, were analysed using hierarchical cluster analysis. Three clusters 
emerged and a tailored LPH injury reduction programme was administered for each 
cluster. In addition, 22 players who were not involved in the initial testing 
received a generic LPH injury reduction programme and were used as the control. 
Seasonal information for LPH injury incidence, severity and prevalence were 
compared to the previous season.
RESULTS: The same number of injuries were observed when the prospective injury 
surveillance data was compared to the previous season, however a reduced injury 
severity (936days vs 468days), average severity (78±126days vs 42±37days) and 
prevalence (21% vs 19%) were found. Moreover, LPH injury severity for players 
who were prescribed a tailored injury reduction programme (209days) were 50days 
less than players given a generic LPH injury reduction programme (259days).
CONCLUSIONS: Our preliminary observations support the effectiveness of grouping 
players and tailoring intervention based on common group characteristics in 
reducing the severity of LPH injuries in professional Rugby Union.

Copyright © 2017 Sports Medicine Australia. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsams.2017.07.004
PMID: 28797830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Health Place. 2017 Sep;47:90-99. doi: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2017.07.003.
Epub  2017 Aug 7.

Not all built the same? A comparative study of electoral systems and population 
health.

Patterson AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Prentice Institute for Global Population and Economy, University of 
Lethbridge, 4401, University Dr W, Lethbridge, AB, Canada T1K3M4. Electronic 
address: andrew.patterson@uleth.ca.

Much literature depicts a worldwide democratic advantage in population health. 
However, less research compares health outcomes in the different kinds of 
democracy or autocracy. In an examination of 179 countries as they existed 
between 1975 and 2012, advantages in life expectancy and infant health appear 
most reliably for democracies that include the principle of proportional 
representation in their electoral rules. Compared to closed autocracies, they 
had up to 12 or more years of life expectancy on average, 75% less infant 
mortality, and double the savings in overall mortality for most other age 
groups. Majoritarian democracies, in contrast, did not experience longitudinal 
improvements in health relative to closed autocracies. Instead their population 
health appeared to be on par with or even superseded by competitive autocracies 
in most models. Findings suggest that the principle of proportional 
representation may be good for health at the national level. Implications and 
limitations are discussed.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2017.07.003
PMID: 28797903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Soc Sci Med. 2017 Sep;189:114-128. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2017.07.012.
Epub  2017 Jul 21.

Values for the ICECAP-Supportive Care Measure (ICECAP-SCM) for use in economic 
evaluation at end of life.

Huynh E(1), Coast J(2), Rose J(3), Kinghorn P(4), Flynn T(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Choice, University of South Australia, Australia.
(2)Population Health Sciences, Bristol Medical School, University of Bristol, 
UK. Electronic address: jo.coast@bristol.ac.uk.
(3)University of Technology Sydney, Australia.
(4)Health Economics Unit, Institute of Applied Health Research, University of 
Birmingham, UK.
(5)TF Choices Ltd, Nottingham, UK.

End of life care may have elements of value that go beyond health. A generic 
measure of the benefits of end of life care could be helpful to decision makers. 
Such a measure, based on the capability approach, has recently been developed: 
the ICECAP Supportive Care Measure. This paper reports the first valuation 
exercise for that measure, with data from 6020 individuals collected from an 
on-line general population panel during June 2013. Individuals were asked to 
complete a stated choice experiment that combined best-worst scaling and a 
standard discrete choice experiment. Analysis of the best-worst data used 
limited dependent variable models within the random utility framework including 
the multinomial logit models and latent class choice model analysis. Exploratory 
steps were taken to determine the similarity of the best-worst and DCE data 
before formal testing and pooling of the two data sources. Combined data were 
analysed in a heteroscedastic conditional logit model adjusting for continuous 
scale. Two sets of tariffs were generated, one from the best-worst data 
capturing only main effects, and a second from the pooled data allowing for 
two-way interactions. Either tariff could be used in economic evaluation of 
interventions at the end of life, although there are advantages and 
disadvantages with each. This extensive valuation exercise for the ICECAP 
Supportive Care Measure, with a large number of members of the general public, 
could be complemented in the future with best-worst scaling studies amongst 
those experiencing the end of life.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2017.07.012
PMID: 28797940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2017 Nov 7;12(11):1823-1830. doi:
10.2215/CJN.01410217.  Epub 2017 Aug 10.

Vascular Access Type and Clinical Outcomes among Elderly Patients on 
Hemodialysis.

Lee T(1)(2), Thamer M(3), Zhang Q(3), Zhang Y(3), Allon M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Nephrology, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama.
(2)Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Birmingham, Alabama; and.
(3)Medical Technology and Practice Patterns Institute, Bethesda, Maryland.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The optimal type of initial permanent access for 
hemodialysis among the elderly is controversial. Duration of central venous 
catheter dependence, patient comorbidities, and life expectancy are important 
considerations in whether to place an arteriovenous fistula or graft. We used an 
observational study design to compare clinical outcomes in elderly patients who 
initiated hemodialysis with a central venous catheter and subsequently had an 
arteriovenous fistula or graft placed.
DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS, & MEASUREMENTS: We identified 9458 United States 
patients ages ≥67 years old who initiated hemodialysis from July 1, 2010 to June 
30, 2011 with a central venous catheter and no secondary vascular access and 
then received an arteriovenous fistula (n=7433) or graft (n=2025) within 6 
months. We evaluated key clinical outcomes during the 6 months after vascular 
access placement coincident with high rates of catheter use and used a matched 
propensity score analysis to examine patient survival.
RESULTS: Central venous catheter dependence was greater in every month during 
the 6-month period after arteriovenous fistula versus graft placement (P<0.001). 
However, rates of all-cause infection-related hospitalization (adjusted relative 
risk, 0.93; 95% confidence interval, 0.87 to 0.99; P=0.01) and 
bacteremia/septicemia-related hospitalization (adjusted relative risk, 0.90; 95% 
confidence interval, 0.82 to 0.98; P=0.02) were lower in the arteriovenous 
fistula versus graft group as was the adjusted risk of death (hazard ratio, 
0.76; 95% confidence interval, 0.73 to 0.80; P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Despite extended central venous catheter dependence, elderly 
patients initiating hemodialysis with a central venous catheter who underwent 
arteriovenous fistula placement within 6 months had fewer hospitalizations due 
to infections and a lower likelihood of death than those receiving an 
arteriovenous graft.

Copyright © 2017 by the American Society of Nephrology.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.01410217
PMCID: PMC5672965
PMID: 28798220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Eur J Ageing. 2008 May 20;5(2):137. doi: 10.1007/s10433-008-0082-8.
eCollection  2008 Jun.

Trends in health expectancy indicators in the older adult population in Belgium 
between 1997 and 2004.

Van Oyen H(1), Cox B(1), Demarest S(1), Deboosere P(2), Lorant V(3).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Epidemiology, Scientific Institute of Public Health, J. Wytsmanstraat 
15, 1050 Brussels, Belgium.
(2)Interface Demography, Section Social Research, Free University of Brussels, 
Pleinlaan 2, 1050 Brussels, Belgium.
(3)Public Health School, Université Catholique de Louvain, Clos Chapelle aux 
Champs 30.41, 1200 Brussels, Belgium.

The objective is to assess if longer life in Belgium is associated with more 
healthy years through the evaluation of trends (1997-2004) in health expectancy 
indicators at ages 65 and 80 covering different health domains: self-perceived 
health, chronic morbidity, disease clusters, and disability. Information was 
obtained from Belgian Health Interview Surveys. Health expectancies were 
calculated using the Sullivan method. Among males at age 65, the increase in 
years expected to live without chronic morbidity, without a disease cluster or 
without disability exceeded the increase of the life expectancy (LE). The rise 
in LE in good self-perceived health was equal to the gain in LE. Among women at 
age 65 and among men and women at age 80, none of the changes in the expected 
years of life in good health in any health domain were statistically 
significant. At age 65 among women, the increase in LE was smaller than the 
increase in years without chronic disease or without disability. The increase in 
years without disease clusters was less that the LE increase. At age 80 among 
men, the years without disability increased as the LE, with a shift toward years 
with moderate limitations. In any other health domains for men (except 
co-morbidity) and in all domains for women the years in good health either 
decreased or increased less than the LE. The recent rise in life expectancy in 
Belgium is, among the youngest old and especially among males, accompanied by an 
improved health status. At age 80 and particularly among women expansion of 
unhealthy years prevails.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-008-0082-8
PMCID: PMC5546274
PMID: 28798568


828. Eur J Ageing. 2008 Oct 25;5(4):275. doi: 10.1007/s10433-008-0095-3.
eCollection  2008 Dec.

Successful aging in spite of bad habits: introduction to the special section on 
'Life style and health expectancy'.

Reynolds SL(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Aging Studies, University of South Florida, 4202 E. Fowler Avenue, 
MHC 1344, Tampa, FL 33620 USA.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-008-0095-3
PMCID: PMC5546293
PMID: 28798579


829. Eur J Ageing. 2008 Oct 28;5(4):279. doi: 10.1007/s10433-008-0100-x.
eCollection  2008 Dec.

Trends in health expectancy at age 65 for various health indicators, 1987-2005, 
Denmark.

Jeune B(1)(2), Brønnum-Hansen H(3).

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology, Institute of Public Health, and Ageing Research Centre, 
University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(2)J. B. Winsløws Vej 9B, 5000 Odense C, Denmark.
(3)National Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.

Record life expectancy does not appear to be approaching its limit-it is still 
increasing, as is the maximum life span. An important question is whether the 
longer life is accompanied by an increasing lifetime in good health. The aim of 
the study was to determine the trends in health expectancy at age 65 in Denmark 
during the period 1987-2005, including the end of a period of stagnation (until 
1995) and the beginning of a new period with increasing life expectancy (after 
1994). The study was based on nationwide register data on mortality and data on 
health status from the Danish Health Interview Surveys carried out in 1987, 
1994, 2000, and 2005. Expected lifetime in various health states was estimated 
with Sullivan's method. Life expectancy at age 65 increased only after 1994 by 
almost 2 years among men and by about 1 year among women. The increase in 
expected lifetime without long-standing, limiting illness, lifetime without 
functional limitations, and lifetime with self-rated good health was all 
substantial in both genders (1.4-3 years depending on gender and health 
indicator), and was followed by a decrease in lifetime with the unhealthy state 
resulting in increasing proportions of lifetime in a healthy state. Overall, 
expected lifetime in good health increased more than life expectancy in both 
genders during the second half of the period 1987-2005, i.e. after the 
stagnation period.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-008-0100-x
PMCID: PMC5547274
PMID: 28798580


830. Eur J Ageing. 2008 Nov 1;5(4):287. doi: 10.1007/s10433-008-0097-1.
eCollection  2008 Dec.

Trends in disability-free life expectancy at age 65 in France: consistent and 
diverging patterns according to the underlying disability measure.

Cambois E(1), Clavel A(2), Romieu I(2), Robine JM(2).

Author information:
(1)Unité "Mortalité, santé, épidémiologie", Institut National d'Études 
Démographiques (INED), 133 Bd Davout, 75020 Paris, France.
(2)Equipe "Démographie et santé", Inserm/Univ Montpellier, centre Val d'Aurelle, 
Parc Euromédecine, 34298 Montpellier Cedex 05, France.

Disability-free life expectancy estimates (DFLE) are summary measures to monitor 
whether a longer life expectancy (LE) is associated with better health or 
whether additional years of life are years of poor health or disability. 
Disability is a generic term defined as the impact of disease or injury on the 
functioning of individuals. It covers various situations from the rather common 
functional limitations to restrictions in daily activities and finally 
dependency. Disentangling these dimensions is essential to monitor future needs 
of care and assistance; but this is not always feasible since surveys do not 
systematically cover a large range of disability dimensions in their 
questionnaires. This study aims to cover different disability dimensions by 
using data from different French population surveys. We computed ten 
disability-free life expectancies, based on both specific and generic disability 
indicators from four population health surveys, in order to describe and compare 
trends and patterns for France over the 1980s and the 1990s. We used the 
Sullivan method to combine prevalence of disability and life tables. In 2000, 
two thirds of total LE at age 65 are years with physical or sensory functional 
limitations and 10% are years with restrictions in personal care activities. 
Trends in DFLE over the two last decades seem to have remained stable for 
moderate levels of disability and to have increased for more severe levels of 
disability or activity restrictions. We found that patterns are consistent from 
one survey to the other when comparing indicators reflecting similar disability 
situations.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-008-0097-1
PMCID: PMC5546295
PMID: 28798581


831. Eur J Ageing. 2009 Jul 30;6(3):191-200. doi: 10.1007/s10433-009-0122-z. 
eCollection 2009 Sep.

The effect of change in educational composition on population ageing.

Batljan I(1)(2), Thorslund M(1).

Author information:
(1)Aging Research Center, Karolinska Institut, Stockholm University, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(2)Municipality of Nynäshamn, 149 81 Nynäshamn, Sweden.

Official Swedish demographic projections have systematically underestimated the 
number of older people. One explanation behind the underestimation may be found 
in the fact that the demographic projections are not taking into account 
socio-economic mortality differentials. We performed alternative demographic 
scenarios based on assumptions of unchanged and continuing declining mortality, 
with and without taking into account socio-economic gradients in mortality. 
According to a scenario based on assumption on declining mortality rates per age 
group, sex and educational level, the number of older persons (65+) in Sweden 
will increase by 62% during the period 2000-2035. This can be compared to an 
increase by 54% in a scenario that does not take into account future structural 
differences in educational levels and the latest trends in socio-economic 
inequality in life expectancy (the method used by statistical offices). The 
socio-economic structure of the older population is significantly changing over 
the years. We project that by year 2035, only 20% of women 80 years and older 
will have a low educational level, compared to about 75-80% today. The change in 
socio-economic structure is similar for the older men. Standard demographic 
projections that do not take into account socio-economic mortality 
differentials, risk underestimating the number of older people and hiding 
dramatic changes in population composition. Taking into account socio-economic 
mortality differentials results in alternative projections giving us new 
information regarding the future size and socio-economic composition of the 
older population. We recommend use of this information in health care and 
long-term care human resources planning or when assessing financial 
sustainability of health care, long-term care and pension systems in the future.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-009-0122-z
PMCID: PMC5547369
PMID: 28798603


832. Eur J Ageing. 2009 Aug 11;6(3):227-236. doi: 10.1007/s10433-009-0128-6. 
eCollection 2009 Sep.

Cross-national differences in grip strength among 50+ year-old Europeans: 
results from the SHARE study.

Andersen-Ranberg K(1)(2), Petersen I(1), Frederiksen H(1), Mackenbach JP(3), 
Christensen K(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, J.B. Winslowsvej 
9B, 5000 Odense C, Denmark.
(2)Department of Geriatrics, Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark.
(3)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Centre, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Grip strength (GS) has an age- and gender-dependent decline with advancing age. 
One study comparing GS among extremely old show a North-South gradient with 
lowest GS in Italy compared to France (intermediary) and Denmark (highest) even 
after adjusting for confounders. As GS is associated with higher rates of 
functional decline and mortality, and thus may be used as a health indicator, it 
is of interest to examine whether the results on extremely old can be reproduced 
in a large-scale European survey. GS was measured in a cross-sectional 
population-based sample of 27,456 individuals aged 50+ in 11 European countries 
included in the SHARE survey. We made a cross-country comparison of the age 
trajectory of GS in both genders. Northern-continental European countries had 
higher GS than southern European countries even when stratifying by age and 
gender and controlling for height, weight, education, health and socioeconomic 
status. The relative excess was found to be 11% and the absolute difference 
5.0 kg for 50- to 54-year-old men, increasing to 28% and 6.9 kg among 80+ 
year-old men. The corresponding figures for women were 16% and 4.3 kg, and 21% 
and 3.5 kg, respectively. Southern European countries have lower GS in the age 
range 50+ year. Gene-environment interactions may explain country-specific 
differences. The use of GS in cross-national surveys should control not only for 
age and gender, but also for nationality.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-009-0128-6
PMCID: PMC5547372
PMID: 28798606


833. Eur J Ageing. 2010 Nov 4;7(4):213-218. doi: 10.1007/s10433-010-0170-4. 
eCollection 2010 Dec.

Gender gap in health expectancy.

Oksuzyan A(1)(2), Brønnum-Hansen H(3), Jeune B(1).

Author information:
(1)The Danish Aging Research Center, Epidemiology, Institute of Public Health, 
University of Southern Denmark, J.B. Winsløws Vej 9B, 5000 Odense, Denmark.
(2)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany.
(3)National Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Øster 
Farimagsgade 5 A, 1353 Copenhagen, Denmark.

Men have higher death rates than women, but women do worse with regard to 
physical strength, disability, and other health outcomes, the so called 
male-female health-survival paradox. The paradox is likely to be due to multiple 
causes that include biological, behavioral, and social differences between the 
sexes. Despite decades of research on the male-female health-survival paradox, 
we still do not fully recognize whether behavioral factors explain most of the 
gender gap or whether biological and social differences contribute more 
substantially to the explanation of the sex differences in health and mortality. 
Little work has been done to investigate the magnitude of sex differences in 
healthy life expectancy and unhealthy life expectancy, as well as to examine the 
contribution of mortality and disability levels to the sex gap in health 
expectancy. The five selected works presented at the Réseau Espérance de Vie en 
Santé (REVES) Meeting 2009 in Copenhagen, and published in this issue, provide 
new insights into sex differences in health expectancy. The papers examine sex 
differences in health expectancy indicators in the EU countries, as well as 
trends in health expectancy in Hong Kong and in the US. They go beyond 
description of sex differences in health expectancy and assess the contributions 
of mortality and disability to gender differences in healthy life years and 
unhealthy life years, investigate temporal changes in sex differential health 
expectancy, as well as analyze contributions of time and age dimensions to the 
gender gap. They also show that there is still work to be done to indentify and 
quantify mechanisms underlying sex differences in longevity, health, and aging.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-010-0170-4
PMCID: PMC5547325
PMID: 28798630


834. Eur J Ageing. 2010 Nov 3;7(4):229-237. doi: 10.1007/s10433-010-0172-2. 
eCollection 2010 Dec.

Gender gaps in life expectancy and expected years with activity limitations at 
age 50 in the European Union: associations with macro-level structural 
indicators.

Van Oyen H(1), Cox B(1), Jagger C(2)(3), Cambois E(4), Nusselder W(5), Gilles 
C(2), Robine JM(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Surveillance, Scientific Institute of Public 
Health, Brussels, Belgium.
(2)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, United 
Kingdom.
(3)Institute for Ageing and Health, Newcastle University, Newcastle, United 
Kingdom.
(4)French Institute for Demographic Studies, INED, Paris, France.
(5)Erasmus Medical Center, University Medical Center Rotterdam, Rotterdam, 
Netherlands.
(6)French Institute of Health and Medical Research, INSERM, Paris, France.

Women generally live longer than men, but women's longer lives are not 
necessarily healthy lives. The aim of this article is to describe the pattern of 
gender differences in expected years with and without activity limitations 
across 25 EU countries and to explore the association between gender differences 
and macro-level factors. We applied to the Eurostat life table's data from the 
Statistics of Income and Living Conditions Survey to estimate gender differences 
in life expectancy with and without activity limitations at age 50 for 2005. We 
studied the relationship between the gender differences and structural 
indicators using meta-regression techniques. Differences in years with activity 
limitations between genders were associated with the life expectancy (LE) and 
the size of the gender difference in LE. Gender difference in years with 
activity limitations were larger as the gross domestic product, the expenditure 
on elderly care and the indicator of life-long learning decreased, and as the 
inequality in income distribution increased. There was evidence of disparity in 
the associations between the more established EU countries (EU15) and the newer 
EU10 countries. Among the EU15, gender differences were positively associated 
with income inequality, the proportion of the population with a low education 
and the men's mean exit age from labour force. Among the EU10, inequalities were 
smaller with increasing expenditure in elderly care, with decreasing poverty 
risk and with decreasing employment rate of older people. The association 
between structural indicators and the gender gap in years with activity 
limitations suggests that gender differences can be reduced.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-010-0172-2
PMCID: PMC5547327
PMID: 28798631


835. Eur J Ageing. 2010 Nov 12;7(4):239-247. doi: 10.1007/s10433-010-0173-1. 
eCollection 2010 Dec.

Are gaps in disability free life expectancies diminishing in Italy?

Frova L(1), Burgio A(1), Battisti A(1).

Author information:
(1)Italian National Institute of Statistics, Viale Liegi 13, Rome, 00198 Italy.

This paper studies gender differences in disability free life expectancy (DFLE), 
taking into account mortality and disability contributions. After analysing the 
types of disability that account for such differences, it goes on to examine 
temporal variability and age contributions to mortality and disability 
variation. The method used is an extension of Arriaga's model proposed by 
Nusselder. In 2005, disability free life expectancy at age 30 was 46.23 years 
for men and 48.74 years for women, with a gender difference of 2.51 years. 
Decomposing this difference we find that the mortality effect is 3.70 years, 
while the disability effect is negative and equal to -1.19 years. Ten years 
earlier, in 1994, DFLE at age 30 was 43.24 years for men and 46.55 years for 
women, with a difference between genders of 3.32 years. This broke down to a 
mortality effect of 4.33 years and a disability effect of -1.02 years. In 
conclusion, the gap in DFLE between men and women is narrowing, thanks to the 
more rapid drop in mortality rates in men. With respect to disabilities women 
are disadvantaged, although the difference (in both total disability and 
different types of disability) has been almost stable in recent years.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-010-0173-1
PMCID: PMC5547328
PMID: 28798632


836. Eur J Ageing. 2011 Apr 27;8(2):87-94. doi: 10.1007/s10433-011-0188-2. 
eCollection 2011 Jun.

Disability trends among nonagenarians in 2001-2007: Vitality 90+ Study.

Sarkeala T(1), Nummi T(1), Vuorisalmi M(1)(2), Hervonen A(1), Jylhä M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Tampere School of Health Sciences, University of Tampere, Tampere, Finland.
(2)Pirkanmaa Hospital District Research Unit, Tampere, Finland.
