contrôlés et réglementés, les produits pharmaceutiques périmés peuvent être 
reconditionnés et revendus en tant que contrefaçons ou bien jetés sans 
considération du danger pour l'environnement. Dans la chaîne 
d'approvisionnement, le pourcentage des produits pharmaceutiques périmés doit 
diminuer, et les produits périmés doivent être éliminés au bon moment et de 
façon sûre. De nombreux pays à revenu faible et intermédiaire doivent: 
(i) renforcer les systèmes publics pour la gestion des médicaments, afin 
d'améliorer le contrôle des stocks et la fiabilité des prévisions 
d'approvisionnement; (ii) réduire la pression à laquelle les pharmacies 
centrales sont soumises, grâce à des programmes de libéralisation et de 
remboursement; (iii) renforcer la régulation des dons de médicaments; 
(iv) étudier les options envisageables pour réemployer les produits 
pharmaceutiques officiellement périmés mais dont la durée de conservation 
pourrait éventuellement être prolongée après la réalisation de nouveaux tests; 
(v) renforcer l'application des réglementations pour une élimination sans 
risques des médicaments; (vi) investir dans des infrastructures d'élimination 
sans risques des médicaments, éventuellement au moyen d'incinérateurs à 
ultra-haute température; et (vii) responsabiliser les utilisateurs, en intégrant 
dans les programmes d'encadrement du secteur de la santé publique une obligation 
de rendre compte pour les produits périmés.

Publisher: En algunos países con ingresos bajos y medios, los almacenes 
nacionales y las instalaciones del sector sanitario público contienen grandes 
cantidades de existencias de medicamentos que han superado su fecha de 
caducidad. En países con ingresos bajos como Uganda, muchas de estas existencias 
son el resultado de donaciones. Si no se controlan o regulan adecuadamente, 
puede ser que los medicamentos caducados sean empaquetados de nuevo y vendidos 
como falsificaciones o que se depositen sin tener conciencia del potencial daño 
medioambiental. Deben reducirse las tasas de caducidad de los medicamentos en la 
cadena de suministro y los medicamentos caducados deben depositarse a tiempo y 
de forma segura. Muchos países con ingresos bajos y medios necesitan: (i) 
fortalecer los sistemas públicos para la gestión de medicamentos para mejorar el 
control del inventario y la fiabilidad de la adquisición de provisiones; (ii) 
reducir el estrés en los almacenes médicos centrales a través de sistemas de 
reembolso y liberación; (iii) aumentar la regulación de las donaciones de 
medicamentos; (iv) investigar la recuperación de medicamentos oficialmente 
caducados a través de análisis y una posible extensión de la vida útil; (v) 
fortalecer la aplicación de regulaciones sobre la eliminación segura de 
medicamentos; (vi) invertir en una infraestructura para dicha eliminación, tal 
vez basada en incineradores de alta temperatura; e (vii) incluir la 
responsabilidad por parte de los usuarios en relación con los medicamentos 
caducados en los regímenes de responsabilidad rutinaria seguidos por el sector 
sanitario público.

Publisher: في بعض البلدان منخفضة ومتوسطة الدخل، تحتوي المخازن الوطنية والمرافق 
الصحية التابعة للقطاع العام على مخزونات ضخمة من المنتجات الدوائية منتهية 
الصلاحية. أما في البلدان المنخفضة الدخل مثل أوغندا، فإن العديد من هذه المخزونات 
تكون ناتجة عن التبرعات. إذا لم تتم مراقبة المنتجات الدوائية منتهية الصلاحية أو 
تنظيمها بشكل كاف، يمكن إعادة تعبئتها وبيعها كأدوية مزيفة أو التخلص منها دون أي 
تفكير في الضرر البيئي المحتمل. ويلزم خفض معدلات انتهاء صلاحية الأدوية في سلسلة 
الإمداد والتوزيع، كما ينبغي التخلص من المنتجات الدوائية منتهية الصلاحية في الوقت 
المناسب وبطريقة آمنة على حد سواء. وتحتاج العديد من البلدان المنخفضة والمتوسطة 
الدخل إلى: (1) تعزيز النظم العامة لإدارة الأدوية لتحسين مراقبة المخزون وموثوقية 
توقعات المشتريات، و(2) تقليل الضغط على المخازن الطبية المركزية من خلال برامج 
التحرير والسداد، و(3) تعزيز تنظيم التبرعات الدوائية، و(4) التحقق من التخلص من 
المنتجات الدوائية منتهية الصلاحية رسميًا من خلال إعادة التحليل وإمكانية تمديد 
فترة الصلاحية، و(5) تعزيز إنفاذ اللوائح المتعلقة بالتخلص الآمن من الأدوية، و(6) 
الاستثمار في البنية التحتية للتخلص من الأدوية من خلال نظام قد يعتمد على أساس حرق 
المخلفات بالحرارة العالية، و(7) تضمين مساءلة المستخدمين عن المنتجات الدوائية 
منتهية الصلاحية في إطار نظم المساءلة الروتينية التي يتبعها قطاع الصحة العامة.

Publisher: 在一些中低收入国家，全国的商店及公共部门卫生机构拥有大量已超过其有效期的药品。 在乌干达等低收入国家，许多此类库存均来源于捐赠。 
如果未给予充分监测或监管，过期药品则有可能进行重新包装并作为假冒产品进行销售或在不考虑任何潜在环境危害的情况下进行倾倒。 
需减少供应链中药品的过期率并及时且安全地处理这些过期药品。 许多中低收入国家需： (i) 加强公共药物管理系统，以改善库存控制并提高采购预测的可靠性；(ii) 
通过贸易自由化与补偿计划减少中央药店的压力；(iii) 加强药物捐赠监管；(iv) 通过再分析及合理延长有效期，探索已正式过期药品的挽救方法；(v) 
加强安全药物处理条例的实施；(vi) 投资用于此类处理的基础设施，也许基于超高温焚烧装置；此外，(vii) 
在公共卫生部门的日常问责制度范围内，纳入用户对过期药品的问责。.

Publisher: В некоторых странах с низким и средним уровнем дохода национальные 
склады и медицинские учреждения государственного сектора содержат огромные 
запасы фармацевтических препаратов, срок действия которых истек. В странах с 
низким уровнем дохода, таких как Уганда, многие такие запасы являются 
результатом пожертвований. При отсутствии надлежащего контроля или регулирования 
лекарственные средства с истекшим сроком годности могут быть переупакованы и 
проданы в качестве фальсификата или выброшены без какого-либо представления о 
потенциальном ущербе для окружающей среды. Частота случаев истечения срока 
годности лекарственных средств в цепи поставок должна быть снижена, а утилизация 
истекших фармацевтических препаратов должна проводиться как своевременным, так и 
безопасным способом. Многим странам с низким и средним уровнем дохода 
необходимо: (1) усовершенствовать государственные системы управления оборотом 
лекарственных средств, улучшить инвентарный контроль и надежность 
прогнозирования закупок; (2) уменьшить нагрузку на центральные медицинские 
склады за счет схем либерализации и возмещения расходов; (3) усилить 
регулирование пожертвований лекарственных средств; (4) изучить возможность сбора 
и дальнейшего использования фармацевтических препаратов с официально истекшим 
сроком годности путем повторного анализа и продления срока годности; (5) усилить 
контроль за соблюдением правил безопасной утилизации лекарственных средств; 
(6) инвестировать в инфраструктуру для такой утилизации на основе использования 
ультравысокотемпературных установок для сжигания отходов; (7) ввести 
ответственность пользователей за утилизацию фармацевтических препаратов с 
истекшим сроком годности в рамках установленных режимов подотчетности, которым 
следует сектор общественного здравоохранения.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.16.186650
PMCID: PMC5537748
PMID: 28804171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Eur J Ageing. 2013 Apr 5;10(3):229-236. doi: 10.1007/s10433-013-0273-9. 
eCollection 2013 Sep.

Religious activity, life expectancy, and disability-free life expectancy in 
Taiwan.

Hidajat M(1), Zimmer Z(2), Saito Y(3), Lin HS(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Utah, Salt Lake City, USA.
(2)University of California, San Francisco, USA.
(3)Nihon University, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Bureau of Health Promotion, Taichung, Taiwan.

Research has implicated religious activity as a health determinant, but 
questions remain, including whether associations persist in places where 
Judeo-Christian religions are not the majority; whether public versus private 
religious expressions have equivalent impacts, and the precise advantage 
expressed as years of life. This article addresses these issues in Taiwan. 3,739 
Taiwanese aged 53+ were surveyed in 1999, 2003, and 2007. Mortality and 
disability were recorded. Religious activities in public and private settings 
were measured at baseline. Multistate life-tables produced estimates of total 
life expectancy and activity of daily living (ADL) disability-free life 
expectancy across levels of public and private religious activity. There is a 
consistent positive gradient between religious activity and expectancy with 
greater activity related to longer life and more years without disability. Life 
and ADL disability-free life expectancies for those with no religious 
affiliation fit in between the lowest and highest religious activity groups. 
Results corroborate evidence in the West. Mechanisms that intervene may be 
similar in Eastern religions despite differences in the ways in which popular 
religions are practiced. Results for those with no affiliation suggest benefits 
of religion can be accrued in alternate ways.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-013-0273-9
PMCID: PMC5549130
PMID: 28804298


856. Eur J Ageing. 2014 May 21;12(1):61-70. doi: 10.1007/s10433-014-0317-9. 
eCollection 2015 Mar.

Are we living longer but less healthy? Trends in mortality and morbidity in 
Catalonia (Spain), 1994-2011.

Solé-Auró A(1)(2), Alcañiz M(2).

Author information:
(1)Mortality, Health and Epidiemology Unit, Institut National d'Études 
Démographiques INED, 133 Boulevard Davout, 75020 Paris, France.
(2)Riskcenter, Department of Econometrics, Statistics and Spanish Economy, 
University of Barcelona, Av. Diagonal 690, 08034 Barcelona, Spain.

Evidence on trends in prevalence of disease and disability can clarify whether 
countries are experiencing a compression or expansion of morbidity. An expansion 
of morbidity, as indicated by disease, has appeared in Europe and other 
developed regions. It is likely that better treatment, preventive measures, and 
increases in education levels have contributed to the declines in mortality and 
increments in life expectancy. This paper examines whether there has been an 
expansion of morbidity in Catalonia (Spain). It uses trends in mortality and 
morbidity and links these with survival to provide estimates of life expectancy 
with and without diseases and mobility limitations. We use a repeated 
cross-sectional health survey carried out in 1994 and 2011 for measures of 
morbidity, and information from the Spanish National Statistics Institute for 
mortality. Our findings show that at age 65 the percentage of life with disease 
increased from 52 to 70 % for men, and from 56 to 72 % for women; the 
expectation of life with mobility limitations increased from 24 to 30 % for men 
and from 40 to 47 % for women between 1994 and 2011. These changes were 
attributable to increases in the prevalence of diseases and moderate mobility 
limitation. Overall, we find an expansion of morbidity along the period. 
Increasing survival among people with diseases can lead to a higher prevalence 
of diseases in the older population. Higher prevalence of health problems can 
lead to greater pressure on the health care system and a growing burden of 
disease for individuals.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-014-0317-9
PMCID: PMC5549217
PMID: 28804346


857. Eur J Ageing. 2012 Feb 9;9(1):69-79. doi: 10.1007/s10433-012-0217-9.
eCollection  2012 Mar.

Population ageing in Central and Eastern Europe and its demographic and social 
context.

Botev N(1).

Author information:
(1)United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), Almaty, Kazakhstan.

The article focuses on several demographic and socio-economic idiosyncrasies in 
Central and Eastern Europe, which impact the process of population ageing and 
intergenerational relations. These include the adverse mortality trends and 
especially the excess male mortality in certain countries, which exacerbated sex 
differences in life expectancy beyond anything ever recorded in peace-time 
population history, the combination of natural population decrease and net 
emigration, the disordered cohort flows and the shorter generational length. The 
rapid demographic change in these countries coincided with political, economic 
and social transformations. The shock of the fall of communism affected 
differently younger people, who could relatively easily reorganize their life 
cycles so as to adapt to the changed circumstances, and older persons for whom 
such reorganization was more difficult, or even impossible. This created the 
possibility for the opening of an intergenerational rift, as older generations 
felt being the losers of the transition. The article explores the implications 
of these idiosyncrasies and social context for living arrangements, kin 
networks, individual wellbeing and inter-generational relations, and identifies 
areas where particular challenges are likely to be faced when it comes to 
policies and programs aimed at older persons.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-012-0217-9
PMCID: PMC5547418
PMID: 28804408


858. Eur J Ageing. 2012 Apr 12;9(3):243-253. doi: 10.1007/s10433-012-0227-7. 
eCollection 2012 Sep.

Age identity, self-rated health, and life satisfaction among older adults in 
Dakar, Senegal.

Macia E(1), Duboz P(1), Montepare JM(2), Gueye L(1).

Author information:
(1)UMI 3189 Environnement, santé, sociétés (CNRS/Université Cheikh Anta 
Diop/Université de Bamako/CNRST Burkina-Faso), 51, Bd. Pierre Dramard, Faculté 
de Médecine-Secteur Nord, 13344 Marseille Cedex 15, France.
(2)RoseMary B. Fuss Center for Research on Aging and Intergenerational Studies, 
Lasell College, Newton, MA USA.

The objectives of this quantitative study were to (1) ascertain to what extent 
older adults aged 50 and above feel and desire to be younger than their age, and 
classify themselves as young versus old; (2) compare these patterns with those 
found among other cross-cultural populations; and (3) assess the extent to which 
self-rated health and life satisfaction predict age identities. This study was 
carried out on a sample of 500 dwellers of the Senegalese capital aged 50 and 
older. This sample was constructed using the quota method to strive for 
representativeness. Most of the respondents wanted to be younger than their 
chronological age (51.8 %), but only 27.8 % felt younger than they were. 
Moreover, 80 % of the sample claimed to be old. Self-rated health predicted felt 
age and the feeling of being old. Furthermore, the less-satisfied Dakar 
residents were with their life, the younger they wanted to be. We first discuss 
our results in a comparative perspective focused on how orientations toward 
individualism and collectivism could be related to age identity, and on 
demographic characteristics of the Senegalese population-where life expectancy 
is 59.3 years old. We then analyze the relevance of age identity dimensions as 
indicators of successful aging in Dakar.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-012-0227-7
PMCID: PMC5547411
PMID: 28804424


859. Therap Adv Gastroenterol. 2017 Jul;10(7):553-562. doi:
10.1177/1756283X17705775.  Epub 2017 Apr 26.

The role of sebelipase alfa in the treatment of lysosomal acid lipase 
deficiency.

Erwin AL(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Personalized Genomic Healthcare, Genomic Medicine Institute, 
Cleveland Clinic, 9500 Euclid Ave, NE-50, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA.

Lysosomal acid lipase deficiency (LALD) is a lysosomal storage disorder (LSD) 
characterized either by infantile onset with fulminant clinical course and very 
poor prognosis or childhood/adult-onset disease with an attenuated phenotype. 
The disorder is often misdiagnosed or remains undiagnosed in children and adults 
due to a rather unspecific clinical presentation with dyslipidemia and 
steatohepatitis. Until recently, no good treatment options were available for 
LALD. Despite supportive and symptomatic therapies, death occurred before 1 year 
of age in patients with infantile-onset disease and patients with 
childhood/adult-onset LALD suffered from significant complications, such as 
liver cirrhosis, requiring liver transplantation and early-onset cardiovascular 
disease. With the recent approval of sebelipase alfa for clinical use in 
infantile- as well as childhood/adult-onset LALD, a new treatment era for this 
disorder has begun. Sebelipase alfa is a recombinant human lysosomal acid lipase 
(LAL), which is administered via the intravenous route. Clinical trials have 
shown significant improvement of disease parameters such as liver transaminases, 
hepatomegaly, and dyslipidemia in childhood/adult-onset LALD patients. Treatment 
of infants with the severe infantile-onset form of the disease has led to 
improved survival beyond the age of 1 year, and also showed improvement of 
hepatic and gastrointestinal symptoms, as well as growth. Overall, sebelipase 
alfa has a favorable safety profile and promises to be a good long-term 
treatment option for patients with LALD, with significant reduction of disease 
burden and increased life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1177/1756283X17705775
PMCID: PMC5484437
PMID: 28804516

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: Dr Erwin has 
served as an advisory board member for Alexion Pharmaceuticals.


860. Neotrop Entomol. 2018 Oct;47(5):591-597. doi: 10.1007/s13744-017-0550-y.
Epub  2017 Aug 13.

Fertility Life Table of Tetranychus palmarum Flechtmann & Noronha (Acari: 
Tetranychidae) in Oil Palm.

Noronha ACS(1), Ferreira CT(2), Tavares EJM(3), Lima DB(4).

Author information:
(1)Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuária (Embrapa Amazônia Oriental), Tv. 
Dr. Enéas Pinheiro s/n, Marco, Belém, PA, 66095-903, Brasil. 
aloyseia.noronha@embrapa.br.
(2)Escola Superior de Agricultura "Luiz de Queiroz" - ESALQ, Piracicaba, SP, 
Brasil.
(3)Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuária (Embrapa Amazônia Oriental), Tv. 
Dr. Enéas Pinheiro s/n, Marco, Belém, PA, 66095-903, Brasil.
(4)Univ Federal Rural de Pernambuco - UFRPE, Recife, PE, Brasil.

Some species of spider mites belonging to the Tetranychidae family are known to 
associate with oil palm (Elaeis guineensis Jacq. - Arecaceae). The occurrence of 
Tetranychus palmarum Flechtmann & Noronha (Acari, Tetranychidae) was verified on 
oil palm seedlings under greenhouse conditions in the State of Pará in Northern 
Brazil. Plants with colonies of T. palmarum presented yellowish spots on 
leaflets and leaves with chlorosis. The objective of this study was to access 
the biology and fertility life table of T. palmarum in E. guineensis leaves. The 
experiment was conducted under four constant temperatures, 22, 25, 28, and 31°C, 
at 70 ± 10% RH under a 12:12 LD photoperiod. The duration of the egg-to-adult 
period was 18.4 and 9.8 days, at 22 and 31°C, respectively. The parameters of 
the fertility life table showed that 28°C is most suitable for the development 
and reproduction of T. palmarum, with higher values for reproductive parameters 
(R o , r m , and λ) and lower values for duplicating the population (TD). 
Therefore, it is apparent that the best temperature conditions for the 
development of T. palmarum are found in the warmer regions of Brazil, such as 
those observed in northern Brazil.

DOI: 10.1007/s13744-017-0550-y
PMID: 28804859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Palliat Support Care. 2018 Oct;16(5):580-589. doi:
10.1017/S1478951517000761.  Epub 2017 Aug 14.

Perspectives of patients, close relatives, nurses, and physicians on end-of-life 
medication management.

Dees MK(1), Geijteman ECT(2), Dekkers WJM(1), Huisman BAA(3), Perez RSGM(3), van 
Zuylen L(4), van der Heide A(2), van Leeuwen E(1).

Author information:
(1)Radboud Institute for Health Sciences,IQ Healthcare,Radboud University 
Medical Center,Nijmegen,The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Public Health,Erasmus Medical Center,Rotterdam,The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology,VU University Medical Center,Amsterdam,The 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology,Erasmus MC Cancer Institute,Rotterdam,The 
Netherlands.

ABSTRACTObjective:Our aim was to gain insight into the perspectives of patients, 
close relatives, nurses, and physicians on medication management for patients 
with a life expectancy of less than 3 months.
METHOD: We conducted an empirical multicenter study with a qualitative approach, 
including in-depth interviews with patients, relatives, nurses, specialists, and 
general practitioners (GPs). We used the constant comparative method and 
ATLAS.ti (v. 7.1) software for our analysis.
RESULTS: Saturation occurred after 18 patient cases (76 interviews). Some 5 
themes covering 18 categories were identified: (1) priorities in end-of-life 
care, such as symptom management and maintaining hope; (2) appropriate 
medication use, with attention to unnecessary medication and deprescription 
barriers; (3) roles in decision making, including physicians in the lead, 
relatives' advocacy, and pharmacists as suppliers; (4) organization and 
communication (e.g., transparency of tasks and end-of-life conversations); and 
(5) prerequisites about professional competence, accessibility and quality of 
medical records, and financial awareness. Patients, relatives, nurses, 
specialists, and GPs varied in their opinions about these themes.
SIGNIFICANCE OF RESULTS: This study adds to our in-depth understanding of the 
complex practice of end-of-life medication management. It provides knowledge 
about the diversity of the perspectives of patients, close relatives, nurses, 
and physicians regarding beliefs, attitudes, knowledge, skills, behavior, work 
setting, the health system, and cultural factors related to the matter. Our 
results might help to draw an interdisciplinary end-of-life medication 
management guide aimed at stimulating a multidisciplinary and patient-centered 
pharmacotherapeutic care approach.

DOI: 10.1017/S1478951517000761
PMID: 28805170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Clin Transplant. 2017 Oct;31(10). doi: 10.1111/ctr.13088. Epub 2017 Sep 4.

Practices in the evaluation of potential kidney transplant recipients who are 
elderly: A survey of U.S. transplant centers.

Mandelbrot DA(1), Fleishman A(2), Rodrigue JR(2), Norman SP(3), Samaniego M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, UWHealth, Madiso, WI, USA.
(2)The Transplant Institute, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

Limited data exist regarding the evaluation and selection of older candidates 
for transplantation. To help guide the development of program protocols and help 
define research questions in this area, we surveyed U.S. transplant centers 
regarding their current practices in the evaluation of older kidney transplant 
candidates. We emailed a 28-question survey to the medical and surgical 
directors of 190 adult kidney transplant programs in the USA. We received usable 
responses from 59 programs, a 31.1% response rate. Most (76.3%) programs do not 
have absolute age cutoffs for listing patients, but for the 22.0% of programs 
that do have cutoffs, the mean age was 79, range 70-90. Nearly one-third (29.2%) 
of programs require a minimum life expectancy to list for transplant, reporting 
a mean of 4.5 years life expectancy, (range 2-10). Programs vary significantly 
in evaluating candidates living in a nursing home or with cognitive impairments. 
Practices regarding the evaluation of older transplant candidates vary widely 
between U.S. programs. Further studies are needed on the impact of age and other 
comorbidities on transplant outcomes, to help guide decisions on which older 
patients are most appropriate for transplant listing.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ctr.13088
PMID: 28805267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Int Rev Neurobiol. 2017;134:1239-1255. doi: 10.1016/bs.irn.2017.05.014. Epub
 2017 Jul 4.

Palliative Care and Nonmotor Symptoms in Parkinson's Disease and Parkinsonism.

Titova N(1), Chaudhuri KR(2).

Author information:
(1)Federal State Budgetary Educational Institution of Higher Education "N.I. 
Pirogov Russian National Research Medical University" of the Ministry of 
Healthcare of the Russian Federation, Moscow, Russia.
(2)The Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience Institute, King's College London and 
National Parkinson Foundation Centre of Excellence, Kings College Hospital, 
London, United Kingdom. Electronic address: ray.chaudhuri@nhs.net.

The term palliative care (PC) is defined as a collection of interventions and 
strategies that helps to improve and sustain the quality of life of patients and 
caregivers in situations and scenarios associated with life-threatening illness. 
This is usually implemented by means of early identification and treatment of 
relevant motor and nonmotor issues such as pain, sleep, and autonomic 
dysfunction, dementia, and depression. In addition, a holistic PC program also 
includes delivery of physical, psychosocial, and spiritual support. PC as a 
specific discipline, as well as a treatment strategy for long-term neurological 
conditions such as Parkinson's disease (PD), is relatively new, but very 
important as neurodegenerative disorders in the United Kingdom alone affects 
approximately 10 million people and there are over 130,000 people with PD. With 
longer life expectancy, the burden of long duration and late stage PD is even 
more evident, bringing in focus the need for PC. However, the concept of PC in 
PD is still poorly defined and although there are pockets of excellence, the 
strategy is poorly implemented into routine clinical practice. The variable 
progressive nature of the disease, the heterogeneity of clinical subtypes, and 
also the burden of nonmotor symptoms create challenges for effective PC delivery 
in PD, but recent clinical trials have started addressing PC in PD and are to be 
welcomed.

© 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.irn.2017.05.014
PMID: 28805571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Plants (Basel). 2017 Aug 13;6(3):33. doi: 10.3390/plants6030033.

Integrating Soil Silicon Amendment into Management Programs for Insect Pests of 
Drill-Seeded Rice.

Villegas JM(1), Way MO(2), Pearson RA(3), Stout MJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Louisiana State University Agricultural Center, 404 
Life Sciences Building, Baton Rouge, LA 70803, USA. jvillegas@agcenter.lsu.edu.
(2)Texas A&M AgriLife Research and Extension Center, 1509 Aggie Drive, Beaumont, 
TX 77713, USA. moway@aesrg.tamu.edu.
(3)Texas A&M AgriLife Research and Extension Center, 1509 Aggie Drive, Beaumont, 
TX 77713, USA. rawolff@ag.tamu.edu.
(4)Department of Entomology, Louisiana State University Agricultural Center, 404 
Life Sciences Building, Baton Rouge, LA 70803, USA. mstout@agcenter.lsu.edu.

Silicon soil amendment has been shown to enhance plant defenses against insect 
pests. Rice is a silicon-accumulating graminaceous plant. In the southern United 
States, the rice water weevil and stem borers are important pests of rice. 
Current management tactics for these pests rely heavily on the use of 
insecticides. This study evaluated the effects of silicon amendment when 
combined with current management tactics for these rice insect pests in the 
field. Field experiments were conducted from 2013 to 2015. Rice was 
drill-planted in plots subjected to factorial combinations of variety 
(conventional and hybrid), chlorantraniliprole seed treatment (treated and 
untreated), and silicon amendment (treated and untreated). Silicon amendment 
reduced densities of weevil larvae on a single sampling date in 2014, but did 
not affect densities of whiteheads caused by stem borers. In contrast, 
insecticidal seed treatment strongly reduced densities of both weevil larvae and 
whiteheads. Higher densities of weevil larvae were also observed in the hybrid 
variety in 2014, while higher incidences of whiteheads were observed in the 
conventional variety in 2014 and 2015. Silicon amendment improved rice yields, 
as did chlorantraniliprole seed treatment and use of the hybrid variety.

DOI: 10.3390/plants6030033
PMCID: PMC5620589
PMID: 28805707

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


865. Int J Mol Sci. 2017 Aug 13;18(8):1764. doi: 10.3390/ijms18081764.

Analysis of the Pathogenic Factors and Management of Dry Eye in Ocular Surface 
Disorders.

Nebbioso M(1), Del Regno P(2), Gharbiya M(3), Sacchetti M(4), Plateroti R(5), 
Lambiase A(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sense Organs, Policlinico Umberto I, Sapienza University of 
Rome, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, 00185 Rome, Italy. marcella.nebbioso@uniroma1.it.
(2)Department of Sense Organs, Policlinico Umberto I, Sapienza University of 
Rome, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, 00185 Rome, Italy. paoladelregno@hotmail.it.
(3)Department of Sense Organs, Policlinico Umberto I, Sapienza University of 
Rome, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, 00185 Rome, Italy. magda.gharbiya@uniroma1.it.
(4)Department of Sense Organs, Policlinico Umberto I, Sapienza University of 
Rome, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, 00185 Rome, Italy. marta.sacchetti@uniroma1.it.
(5)Department of Sense Organs, Policlinico Umberto I, Sapienza University of 
Rome, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, 00185 Rome, Italy. rocco.plateroti@uniroma1.it.
(6)Department of Sense Organs, Policlinico Umberto I, Sapienza University of 
Rome, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, 00185 Rome, Italy. alessandro.lambiase@uniroma1.it.

The tear film represents the interface between the eye and the environment. The 
alteration of the delicate balance that regulates the secretion and distribution 
of the tear film determines the dry eye (DE) syndrome. Despite having a 
multifactorial origin, the main risk factors are female gender and advanced age. 
Likewise, morphological changes in several glands and in the chemical 
composition of their secretions, such as proteins, mucins, lipidics, aqueous 
tears, and salinity, are highly relevant factors that maintain a steady ocular 
surface. Another key factor of recurrence and onset of the disease is the 
presence of local and/or systemic inflammation that involves the ocular surface. 
DE syndrome is one of the most commonly encountered diseases in clinical 
practice, and many other causes related to daily life and the increase in 
average life expectancy will contribute to its onset. This review will consider 
the disorders of the ocular surface that give rise to such a widespread 
pathology. At the end, the most recent therapeutic options for the management of 
DE will be briefly discussed according to the specific underlying pathology.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms18081764
PMCID: PMC5578153
PMID: 28805710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


866. Khirurgiia (Mosk). 2017;(8):47-50. doi: 10.17116/hirurgia2017847-50.

[Metal self-expanding stents for malignant obstruction of stomach outlet and 
duodenum].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Shabunin AV(1), Lebedev SS(1), Chechenin GM(1), Barinov YV(1), Sidorova YV(1), 
Bagateliya ZA(1), Vardanyan AV(1), Dolidze DD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Russian Medical Academy of Continuing Vocational 
Education, Health Ministry of the Russian Federation, Moscow, Russia.

AIM: To compare different types of self-expanding stents (partially coated or 
uncovered) for malignant pyloroduodenal obstruction (MPDO).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 89 MPDO patients underwent stenting at the Botkin City 
Hospital (Moscow) for the period 2008-2016. The causes of malignant obstruction 
were: stomach cancer - 53 (59.5%), pancreatic cancer - 31 (34.8%), compression 
by retroperitoneal lymph nodes - 3 (3.4%), duodenal cancer - 2 (2.2%). Patients 
were divided into two homogeneous groups. In group 1 (32 patients) partially 
coated stents were used, in group 2 (57 patients) - uncovered stents. Mean age 
was 68.3±6.2 and 64.3±5.7 years in both groups respectively; male/female ratio 
18/14 in group 1, 32/25 in group 2. Length of stricture was 51±5.1 mm in group 
1, 48±4.8 mm in group 2. GOOSS score in group 1: 0-8, 1-13, 2-11, 3-0, in group 
2 0-14, 1-25, 2-18, 3-0 (p=0.03).
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Technical success was achieved in 32 patients of group 1 
(100%) and in 57 patients of group 2 (100%). There were no procedure-associated 
complications and mortality. Clinical success was observed in 29 (90.6%) 
patients of group 1 and in 50 (87.7%) patients of group 2. GOOSS score of group 
1: 0-8, 1-8, 2-10, 3-12, group 2: 0-3, 1-15, 2-19, 3-20. There were 3 distal 
dislocations of the stent within 1 - days in group 1, in group 2 dislocations 
were absent. Postoperative chemotherapy was prescribed in 20 (62.5%) patients of 
group 1 and 38 (66.7%) patients of group 2 (p=0.08). 27 patients of group 1 and 
49 patients of group 2 died due to progression of the disease, others are under 
observation. Mean life expectancy: group 1 (18 patients - 50 days, 9 patients - 
100 days, 5 patients were alive by the moment of study); group 2 (32 patients - 
50 days, 100 days - 17 patients, 8 patients were alive by the moment of study). 
3 patients (9.4%) in group 1 and 7 (12.3%) patients in group 2 had stent 
dysfunction (p=0.02). Mean period of partially covered stent function was 
138±3.9 days, uncovered stent - 96±4.8 days (р=0.003).
CONCLUSION: Our study showed that time of stent function corresponds to median 
survival. Greater number of stent migration in group 1 is due to stent coverage, 
higher incidence of stent dysfunction in group 2 - due to malignant invasion.

Publisher: В настоящее время для лечения ЗПДО применяется эндоскопическая 
установка нитиноловых саморасширяющихся стентов. Цель исследования - сравнить 
различные типы саморасширяющихся стентов (частично покрытых или непокрытых), 
используемых в лечении ЗПДО. Материал и методы. В Боткинской больнице (Москва) 
за период с 2008 по 2016 г. выполнено стентирование у 89 больных со 
злокачественной обструкцией желудка и двенадцатиперстной кишки. Пациенты были 
разделены на две однородные группы. В 1-й группе использовали частично покрытые 
стенты (n=32), во 2-й группе - непокрытые (n=57). Средний возраст в 1-й группе 
68,3±6,2 года, во 2-й группе 64,3±5,7 года; м/ж: 18/14 и 32/25 соответственно. 
Длина стриктуры в 1-й группе 51±5,1 мм, во 2-й группе 48±4,8 мм. Оценка по шкале 
в 1-й группе: 0-8, 1-13, 2-11, 3-0, во 2-й группе: 0-14, 1-25, 2-18, 3-0 
(р=0,03). Результаты и обсуждение. Технический успех был достигнут в 100% 
наблюдений. Клинический успех был достигнут у 29 (90,6%) больных 1-й группы и у 
50 (87,7%) пациентов 2-й группы. Оценка по шкале GOOSS в 1-й группе: 0-8, 1-8, 
2-10, 3-12, во 2-й группе: 0-3, 1-15, 2-19, 3-20. В 1-й группе были 3 дистальные 
дислокации стента в течение от 1 до 3 дней, во 2-й группе дислокаций не 
отмечено. 27 пациентов 1-й группы и 49 пациентов 2-й группы умерли от 
прогрессирования основного заболевания, остальные находятся под наблюдением. 
Средняя продолжительность жизни в 1-й группе: 18 больных - 50 дней, 9 пациентов 
- 100 дней, 5 пациентов живы до настоящего времени; во 2-й группе: 32 больных - 
50 дней, 100 дней - 17 больных, 8 пациентов живы до настоящего времени. У 3 
(9,4%) пациентов 1-й группы и у 7 (12,3%) пациентов 2-й группы отмечена 
дисфункция стента (р=0,02). Средний период функционирования частично покрытого 
стента составлял 138±3,9 дня, а непокрытого - 96±4,8 дня (р=0,003). Выводы. 
Большее число миграции стента в 1-й группе объясняется использованием покрытого 
стента, более высокая частота дисфункции стента во 2-й группе - прорастанием 
опухоли.

DOI: 10.17116/hirurgia2017847-50
PMID: 28805778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Strengthening the Disaster Resilience of the Academic Biomedical Research 
Community: Protecting the Nation's Investment.

National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine; Division on Earth and 
Life Studies; Health and Medicine Division; Institute for Laboratory Animal 
Research; Board on Earth Sciences and Resources; Board on Health Sciences 
Policy; Committee on Strengthening the Disaster Resilience of Academic Research 
Communities; Carlin E, Brown L, Benjamin GC, editors.

Washington (DC): National Academies Press (US); 2017 Aug 10.
The National Academies Collection: Reports funded by National Institutes of 
Health.

The academic biomedical research community is a hub of employment, economic 
productivity, and scientific progress. Academic research institutions are 
drivers of economic development in their local and state economies and, by 
extension, the national economy. Beyond the economic input that the academic 
biomedical research community both receives and provides, it generates knowledge 
that in turn affects society in myriad ways. The United States has experienced 
and continues to face the threat of disasters, and, like all entities, the 
academic biomedical research community can be affected. Recent disasters, from 
hurricanes to cyber-attacks, and their consequences have shown that the 
investments of the federal government and of the many other entities that 
sponsor academic research are not uniformly secure. First and foremost, events 
that damage biomedical laboratories and the institutions that house them can 
have impacts on the safety and well-being of humans and research animals. 
Furthermore, disasters can affect career trajectories, scientific progress, and 
financial stability at the individual and institutional levels. Strengthening 
the Disaster Resilience of the Academic Biomedical Research Community offers 
recommendations and guidance to enhance the disaster resilience of the academic 
biomedical research community, with a special focus on the potential actions 
researchers, academic research institutions, and research sponsors can take to 
mitigate the impact of future disasters.

Copyright 2017 by the National Academy of Sciences. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.17226/24827
PMID: 28806039


868. Health Secur. 2017 Jul/Aug;15(4):373-383. doi: 10.1089/hs.2017.0028. Epub
2017  Aug 14.

Existential Risk and Cost-Effective Biosecurity.

Millett P, Snyder-Beattie A.

In the decades to come, advanced bioweapons could threaten human existence. 
Although the probability of human extinction from bioweapons may be low, the 
expected value of reducing the risk could still be large, since such risks 
jeopardize the existence of all future generations. We provide an overview of 
biotechnological extinction risk, make some rough initial estimates for how 
severe the risks might be, and compare the cost-effectiveness of reducing these 
extinction-level risks with existing biosecurity work. We find that reducing 
human extinction risk can be more cost-effective than reducing smaller-scale 
risks, even when using conservative estimates. This suggests that the risks are 
not low enough to ignore and that more ought to be done to prevent the 
worst-case scenarios.

DOI: 10.1089/hs.2017.0028
PMCID: PMC5576214
PMID: 28806130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Curr Opin Pulm Med. 2017 Nov;23(6):570-573. doi:
10.1097/MCP.0000000000000427.

Pain is an underestimated symptom in cystic fibrosis.

Masson A(1), Kirszenbaum M, Sermet-Gaudelus I.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Ressources et de Compétence en Mucoviscidose, Hôpital Necker, 
Université Paris Sorbonne, Paris, France.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Life expectancy is increasing in cystic fibrosis and new 
aspects of the disease have to be taken into account in cystic fibrosis care.
RECENT FINDINGS: Pain is encountered among 70% of adult and pediatric patients 
with cystic fibrosis. This symptom is underestimated by the multidisciplinary 
team. It has been reported as impacting quality of life and adherence to 
treatments. The location of pain is inconstant among the different studies but 
the major symptoms are headaches, gastrointestinal, and chest pain. Pain is 
different for each patient and requires careful evaluation using questionnaires 
some of which specifically developed for patients with cystic fibrosis. Medical 
and nonmedical treatment such as ostheopathy or sophrology may relieve pain 
symptoms but have to be adjusted in the frame of a global personalized care.
SUMMARY: Pain maybe an underestimated symptom among patients with cystic 
fibrosis and impacts negatively on quality of life. VIDEO ABSTRACT.

DOI: 10.1097/MCP.0000000000000427
PMID: 28806187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. PLoS One. 2017 Aug 14;12(8):e0181021. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0181021. 
eCollection 2017.

Depression screening with patient-targeted feedback in cardiology: The 
cost-effectiveness of DEPSCREEN-INFO.

Brettschneider C(1), Kohlmann S(2), Gierk B(2), Löwe B(2), König HH(1).

Author information:
(1)University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg Center for Health 
Economics, Department of Health Economics and Health Services Research, Hamburg, 
Germany.
(2)University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Department of Psychosomatic 
Medicine and Psychotherapy and Schön Klinik Hamburg Eilbek, Hamburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Although depression is common in patients with heart disease, 
screening for depression is much debated. DEPSCREEN-INFO showed that a 
patient-targeted feedback in addition to screening results in lower depression 
level six months after screening. The purpose of this analysis was to perform a 
cost-effectiveness analysis of DEPSCREEN-INFO.
METHODS: Patients with coronary heart disease or arterial hypertension were 
included. Participants in both groups were screened for depression. Participants 
in the intervention group additionally received a patient-targeted feedback of 
their result and recommended treatment options. A cost-utility analysis using 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY) based on the EQ-5D was performed. The time 
horizon was 6 months. Resource utilization was assessed by a telephone 
interview. Multiple imputation using chained equations was used. Net-benefit 
regressions controlled for prognostic variables at baseline were performed to 
construct cost-effectiveness acceptability curves. Different sensitivity 
analyses were performed.
RESULTS: 375 participants (intervention group: 155; control group: 220) were 
included at baseline. After 6 months, in the intervention group adjusted total 
costs were lower (-€2,098; SE: €1,717) and more QALY were gained (0.0067; SD: 
0.0133); yet differences were not statistically significant. The probability of 
cost-effectiveness was around 80% independent of the willingness-to-pay (range: 
€0/QALY-€130,000/QALY). The results were robust.
CONCLUSIONS: A patient-targeted feedback in addition to depression screening in 
cardiology is cost-effective with a high probability. This underpins the use of 
the patient-targeted feedbacks and the PHQ-9 that are both freely available and 
easy to implement in routine care.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0181021
PMCID: PMC5555702
PMID: 28806775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


871. Lancet Glob Health. 2017 Sep;5(9):e924-e935. doi:
10.1016/S2214-109X(17)30297-8.

Socioeconomic differences in mortality in the antiretroviral therapy era in 
Agincourt, rural South Africa, 2001-13: a population surveillance analysis.

Kabudula CW(1), Houle B(2), Collinson MA(3), Kahn K(4), Gómez-Olivé FX(5), 
Tollman S(4), Clark SJ(6).

Author information:
(1)MRC/Wits Rural Public Health and Health Transitions Research Unit 
(Agincourt), School of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa. Electronic address: 
chodziwadziwa.kabudula@wits.ac.za.
(2)MRC/Wits Rural Public Health and Health Transitions Research Unit 
(Agincourt), School of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa; School of Demography, Australian 
National University, Canberra, ACT, Australia; CU Population Center, Institute 
of Behavioral Science, University of Colorado at Boulder, Boulder, CO, USA.
(3)MRC/Wits Rural Public Health and Health Transitions Research Unit 
(Agincourt), School of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa; INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; 
Department of Science and Technology/Medical Research Council, South African 
Population Research Infrastructure Network (SAPRIN), Acornhoek, South Africa.
(4)MRC/Wits Rural Public Health and Health Transitions Research Unit 
(Agincourt), School of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa; INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; 
Umeå Centre for Global Health Research, Division of Epidemiology and Global 
Health, Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Umeå University, 
Umeå, Sweden.
(5)MRC/Wits Rural Public Health and Health Transitions Research Unit 
(Agincourt), School of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa; INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana.
(6)MRC/Wits Rural Public Health and Health Transitions Research Unit 
(Agincourt), School of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa; CU Population Center, Institute 
of Behavioral Science, University of Colorado at Boulder, Boulder, CO, USA; 
INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Department of Sociology, The Ohio State 
University, Columbus, OH, USA.

Erratum in
    Lancet Glob Health. 2017 Nov;5(11):e1077.

Comment in
    Lancet Glob Health. 2017 Sep;5(9):e851-e852.

BACKGROUND: Understanding the effects of socioeconomic disparities in health 
outcomes is important to implement specific preventive actions. We assessed 
socioeconomic disparities in mortality indicators in a rural South African 
population over the period 2001-13.
METHODS: We used data from 21 villages of the Agincourt Health and 
socio-Demographic Surveillance System (HDSS). We calculated the probabilities of 
death from birth to age 5 years and from age 15 to 60 years, life expectancy at 
birth, and cause-specific and age-specific mortality by sex (not in children <5 
years), time period, and socioeconomic status (household wealth) quintile for 
HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis, other communicable diseases (excluding HIV/AIDS and 
tuberculosis) and maternal, perinatal, and nutritional causes, non-communicable 
diseases, and injury. We also quantified differences with relative risk ratios 
and relative and slope indices of inequality.
FINDINGS: Between 2001 and 2013, 10 414 deaths were registered over 1 058 538 
person-years of follow-up, meaning the overall crude mortality was 9·8 deaths 
per 1000 person-years. We found significant socioecomonic status gradients for 
mortality and life expectancy at birth, with outcomes improving with increasing 
socioeconomic status. An inverse relation was seen for HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis 
mortality and socioeconomic status that persisted from 2001 to 2013. Deaths from 
non-communicable diseases increased over time in both sexes, and injury was an 
important cause of death in men and boys. Neither of these causes of death, 
however, showed consistent significant associations with household socioeconomic 
status.
INTERPRETATION: The poorest people in the population continue to bear a high 
burden of HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis mortality, despite free antiretroviral 
therapy being made available from public health facilities. Associations between 
socioeconomic status and increasing burden of mortality from non-communicable 
diseases is likely to become prominent. Integrated strategies are needed to 
improve access to and uptake of HIV testing, care, and treatment, and management 
of non-communicable diseases in the poorest populations.
FUNDING: Wellcome Trust, South African Medical Research Council, and University 
of the Witwatersrand, South Africa.

Copyright © 2017 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2214-109X(17)30297-8
PMCID: PMC5559644
PMID: 28807190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Eur Urol. 2018 Apr;73(4):628-634. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2017.07.041. Epub
2017  Aug 12.

Cost Effectiveness of Nivolumab in Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma.

Sarfaty M(1), Leshno M(2), Gordon N(3), Moore A(3), Neiman V(4), Rosenbaum E(4), 
Goldstein DA(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Oncology, Davidoff Cancer Center, Rabin Medical Center, Petach 
Tikva, Israel; Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, 
Israel. Electronic address: michalchen1@gmail.com.
(2)Coller School of Management, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(3)Institute of Oncology, Davidoff Cancer Center, Rabin Medical Center, Petach 
Tikva, Israel.
(4)Institute of Oncology, Davidoff Cancer Center, Rabin Medical Center, Petach 
Tikva, Israel; Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, 
Israel.
(5)Institute of Oncology, Davidoff Cancer Center, Rabin Medical Center, Petach 
Tikva, Israel; Winship Cancer Institute, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.

BACKGROUND: In recent years, new drugs have been introduced for second-line 
treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Nivolumab increases overall 
survival and is associated with less toxicity compared to everolimus in this 
setting according to the CheckMate 025 study. However, because of the high cost 
of nivolumab, there is a need to define its value by considering both efficacy 
and cost.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost effectiveness of nivolumab for second-line 
treatment of advanced RCC from the US payer perspective.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A Markov model was developed to compare the 
costs and effectiveness of nivolumab with those of everolimus and placebo in 
second-line treatment of advanced RCC. Health outcomes were measured in 
life-years (LYs) and quality-adjusted LYs (QALYs). Drug costs were based on 2016 
Medicare reimbursement rates.
OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Model robustness was assessed in 
univariable and probabilistic sensitivity analyses. We addressed the issue of 
the extensive duration of immunotherapy treatment among long-term survivors, 
which may or may not be approved by payers.
RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: The total mean cost per patient was $101 070 for 
nivolumab and $50 935 for everolimus. Nivolumab generated a gain of 0.24 LYs 
(0.34 QALYs) compared to everolimus. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) for nivolumab was $146 532/QALY versus everolimus and $226 197/QALY 
versus placebo. Limiting the maximal treatment duration of nivolumab to 2 yr 
reduced the ICER to $121 788/QALY versus everolimus. The analysis is limited by 
data availability and our assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis established that with a willingness-to-pay threshold 
of $100 000 to $150 000 per QALY, nivolumab is estimated to be cost-effective 
versus everolimus, but not cost-effective versus placebo.
PATIENT SUMMARY: We assessed the cost effectiveness of nivolumab in previously 
treated metastatic kidney cancer. In the USA, it would cost $146 532 to gain one 
quality-adjusted life-year with nivolumab versus everolimus, or $226 197 versus 
placebo. Nivolumab is considered cost-effective versus everolimus, but not 
versus placebo.

Copyright © 2017 European Association of Urology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2017.07.041
PMID: 28807351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. J Orthop Sci. 2017 Nov;22(6):982-987. doi: 10.1016/j.jos.2017.07.007. Epub
2017  Aug 12.

A cost-utility analysis of Dynesys dynamic stabilization versus instrumented 
fusion for the treatment of degenerative lumbar spine diseases.

Liu K(1), Sun W(2), Lu Q(3), Chen J(4), Tang J(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, General Hospital of Chinese People's Liberation 
Army, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Intensive Care Unit, Nanyuan Hospital, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Medicine, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(4)Department of Orthopedics, General Hospital of Chinese People's Liberation 
Army, Beijing, China. Electronic address: Chenjiying_301@163.com.
(5)Department of Orthopedics, First Affiliated Hospital of Chinese PLA General 
Hospital, Beijing, China. Electronic address: tangjiaguang2013@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Symptomatic chronic low back and leg pain resulting from lumbar 
spine degenerative disorders is highly prevalent in China, and for some 
patients, surgery is the final option for improvement. Several techniques for 
spinal non-fusion have been introduced to reduce the side-effects of fusion 
methods and hasten postoperative recovery. In this study, the authors have 
evaluated the cost-effectiveness of Dynesys posterior dynamic stabilization 
system (DY) compared with lumbar fusion techniques in the treatment of 
single-level degenerative lumbar spinal conditions.
METHODS: A total of 221 patients undergoing single-level elective primary 
surgery for degenerative lumbar pathology were included. 2-Year postoperative 
health outcomes of Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) for back and leg pain, Oswestry 
Disability Index (ODI), 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36) and EuroQol-5 
Dimensions (EQ-5D) questionnaires were recorded. 2-Year back-related medical 
resource use, missed work, and health-state values (Quality-adjusted life-year 
[QALY]) were assessed. Cost-effectiveness was determined by the incremental cost 
per QALY gained.
RESULTS: At each follow-up point, both cohorts were associated with significant 
improvements in VAS scores, ODI, SF-36 scores and EQ-5D QALY scores, which 
persisted at the 2-year evaluation. The 2-year total mean cost per patient were 
significantly lower for Dynesys system ($20,150) compared to fusion techniques 
($25,581, $27,862 and $27,314, respectively) (P < 0.001). Using EQ-5D, the mean 
cumulative 2-year QALYs gained were statistically equivalent between the four 
groups (0.28, 0.27, 0.30 and 0.30 units, respectively) (P = 0.74). Results 
indicate that patients implanted with the DY system derive lower total costs and 
more utility, on average, than those treated with fusion.
CONCLUSIONS: The Dynesys dynamic stabilization system is cost effective compared 
to instrumented lumbar fusion for treatment of single-level degenerative lumbar 
disorders. It is not possible to state whether DY or lumbar fusion is more 
cost-effective after 2 years.

Copyright © 2017 The Japanese Orthopaedic Association. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jos.2017.07.007
PMID: 28807742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2017 Aug 29;114(35):9332-9336. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1703856114. Epub 2017 Aug 14.

Knee osteoarthritis has doubled in prevalence since the mid-20th century.

Wallace IJ(1), Worthington S(2), Felson DT(3), Jurmain RD(4), Wren KT(5), 
Maijanen H(6), Woods RJ(7), Lieberman DE(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 
02138.
(2)Institute for Quantitative Social Science, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 
02138.
(3)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA 
02118.
(4)Department of Anthropology, San Jose State University, San Jose, CA 95192.
(5)Department of Anthropology, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN 37996.
(6)Laboratory of Archeology, University of Oulu, Oulu 90014, Finland.
(7)Battelle Memorial Institute, Natick, MA 01760.
(8)Department of Human Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 
02138; danlieb@fas.harvard.edu.

Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is believed to be highly prevalent today because of 
recent increases in life expectancy and body mass index (BMI), but this 
assumption has not been tested using long-term historical or evolutionary data. 
We analyzed long-term trends in knee OA prevalence in the United States using 
cadaver-derived skeletons of people aged ≥50 y whose BMI at death was documented 
and who lived during the early industrial era (1800s to early 1900s; n = 1,581) 
and the modern postindustrial era (late 1900s to early 2000s; n = 819). Knee OA 
among individuals estimated to be ≥50 y old was also assessed in archeologically 
derived skeletons of prehistoric hunter-gatherers and early farmers (6000-300 
B.P.; n = 176). OA was diagnosed based on the presence of eburnation (polish 
from bone-on-bone contact). Overall, knee OA prevalence was found to be 16% 
among the postindustrial sample but only 6% and 8% among the early industrial 
