
Interventions that extend lifespan in mice can show substantial sexual 
dimorphism. Here, we show that male-specific lifespan extension with two 
pharmacological treatments, acarbose (ACA) and 17-α estradiol (17aE2), is 
associated, in males only, with increased insulin sensitivity and improved 
glucose tolerance. Females, which show either smaller (ACA) or no lifespan 
extension (17aE2), do not derive these metabolic benefits from drug treatment. 
We find that these male-specific metabolic improvements are associated with 
enhanced hepatic mTORC2 signaling, increased Akt activity, and phosphorylation 
of FOXO1a - changes that might promote metabolic health and survival in males. 
By manipulating sex hormone levels through gonadectomy, we show that 
sex-specific changes in these metabolic pathways are modulated, in opposite 
directions, by both male and female gonadal hormones: Castrated males show fewer 
metabolic responses to drug treatment than intact males, and only those that are 
also observed in intact females, while ovariectomized females show some 
responses similar to those seen in intact males. Our results demonstrate that 
sex-specific metabolic benefits occur concordantly with sexual dimorphism in 
lifespan extension. These sex-specific effects can be influenced by the presence 
of both male and female gonadal hormones, suggesting that gonadally derived 
hormones from both sexes may contribute to sexual dimorphism in responses to 
interventions that extend mouse lifespan.

© 2017 The Authors. Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12656
PMCID: PMC5676051
PMID: 28834262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. N Engl J Med. 2017 Aug 24;377(8):745-755. doi: 10.1056/NEJMsa1616035.

Cost-Effectiveness of Intensive versus Standard Blood-Pressure Control.

Bress AP(1), Bellows BK(1), King JB(1), Hess R(1), Beddhu S(1), Zhang Z(1), 
Berlowitz DR(1), Conroy MB(1), Fine L(1), Oparil S(1), Morisky DE(1), Kazis 
LE(1), Ruiz-Negrón N(1), Powell J(1), Tamariz L(1), Whittle J(1), Wright JT 
Jr(1), Supiano MA(1), Cheung AK(1), Weintraub WS(1), Moran AE(1); SPRINT 
Research Group.

Author information:
(1)From the Departments of Population Health Sciences (A.P.B., R.H., M.B.C.) and 
Pharmacotherapy (B.K.B., N.R.-N.) and the Divisions of General Internal Medicine 
(R.H., M.B.C.), Nephrology and Hypertension (S.B., A.K.C.), and Geriatrics 
(M.A.S.), Department of Internal Medicine, University of Utah School of 
Medicine, Medical Service, Veterans Affairs (VA) Salt Lake City Healthcare 
System (S.B., A.K.C.), and VA Salt Lake City Geriatric Research, Education and 
Clinical Center (M.A.S.), Salt Lake City, and SelectHealth, Murray (B.K.B., 
N.R.-N.) - all in Utah; Pharmacy Department, Kaiser Permanente Colorado, Aurora 
(J.B.K.); Christiana Care Health System, Newark, DE (Z.Z., W.S.W.); Center for 
Healthcare Organization and Implementation Research, Bedford VA Medical Center, 
Bedford, and the Department of Health Law, Policy, and Management, Boston 
University School of Public Health (D.R.B.), and the Department of Health Law, 
Policy and Management, Center for the Assessment of Pharmaceutical Practices, 
Boston University School of Public Health, Boston (L.E.K.) - all in 
Massachusetts; Clinical Applications and Prevention Branch, Division of 
Cardiovascular Sciences, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, Bethesda, MD 
(L.F.); Vascular Biology and Hypertension Program, Division of Cardiovascular 
Disease, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham (S.O.); Fielding School 
of Public Health, Department of Community Health Sciences, University of 
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles (D.E.M.); the Division of General Internal 
Medicine, Brody School of Medicine, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC 
(J.P.); the Division of Population Health and Computational Medicine, University 
of Miami and Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center, Miami VA, Miami 
(L.T.); Clement J. Zablocki VA Medical Center, Milwaukee, and the Department of 
Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, Wauwatosa (J.W.) - both in Wisconsin; 
the Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, University Hospitals Case Medical 
Center, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland (J.T.W.); and the Division of 
General Medicine, Department of Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center, 
New York (A.E.M.).

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. ;377(22):2199.

BACKGROUND: In the Systolic Blood Pressure Intervention Trial (SPRINT), adults 
at high risk for cardiovascular disease who received intensive systolic 
blood-pressure control (target, <120 mm Hg) had significantly lower rates of 
death and cardiovascular disease events than did those who received standard 
control (target, <140 mm Hg). On the basis of these data, we wanted to determine 
the lifetime health benefits and health care costs associated with intensive 
control versus standard control.
METHODS: We used a microsimulation model to apply SPRINT treatment effects and 
health care costs from national sources to a hypothetical cohort of 
SPRINT-eligible adults. The model projected lifetime costs of treatment and 
monitoring in patients with hypertension, cardiovascular disease events and 
subsequent treatment costs, treatment-related risks of serious adverse events 
and subsequent costs, and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for intensive 
control versus standard control of systolic blood pressure.
RESULTS: We determined that the mean number of QALYs would be 0.27 higher among 
patients who received intensive control than among those who received standard 
control and would cost approximately $47,000 more per QALY gained if there were 
a reduction in adherence and treatment effects after 5 years; the cost would be 
approximately $28,000 more per QALY gained if the treatment effects persisted 
for the remaining lifetime of the patient. Most simulation results indicated 
that intensive treatment would be cost-effective (51 to 79% below the 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $50,000 per QALY and 76 to 93% below the 
threshold of $100,000 per QALY), regardless of whether treatment effects were 
reduced after 5 years or persisted for the remaining lifetime.
CONCLUSIONS: In this simulation study, intensive systolic blood-pressure control 
prevented cardiovascular disease events and prolonged life and did so at levels 
below common willingness-to-pay thresholds per QALY, regardless of whether 
benefits were reduced after 5 years or persisted for the patient's remaining 
lifetime. (Funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and others; 
SPRINT ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01206062 .).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMsa1616035
PMCID: PMC5708850
PMID: 28834469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. N Engl J Med. 2017 Aug 24;377(8):713-722. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1603693.

Global, Regional, and National Burden of Rheumatic Heart Disease, 1990-2015.

Watkins DA(1), Johnson CO(1), Colquhoun SM(1), Karthikeyan G(1), Beaton A(1), 
Bukhman G(1), Forouzanfar MH(1), Longenecker CT(1), Mayosi BM(1), Mensah GA(1), 
Nascimento BR(1), Ribeiro ALP(1), Sable CA(1), Steer AC(1), Naghavi M(1), Mokdad 
AH(1), Murray CJL(1), Vos T(1), Carapetis JR(1), Roth GA(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Division of General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine 
(D.A.W.), the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, Department of Global 
Health (C.O.J., M.H.F., M.N., A.H.M., C.J.L.M., T.V., G.A.R.), and the Division 
of Cardiology, Department of Medicine (G.A.R.), University of Washington, 
Seattle; the Department of Medicine, Groote Schuur Hospital and University of 
Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa (D.A.W., B.M.M.); the Murdoch Children's 
Research Institute and the Centre for International Child Heath, University of 
Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC (S.M.C., A.C.S.), and Telethon Kids Institute, 
University of Western Australia and Princess Margaret Hospital for Children, 
Perth, WA (J.R.C.) - both in Australia; the Department of Cardiology, All India 
Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi (G.K.); Children's National Health 
System, Washington, DC (A.B., C.A.S.); Program in Global NCDs and Social Change, 
Department of Global Health and Social Medicine, Harvard Medical School, and the 
Cardiovascular Division, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital - 
both in Boston (G.B.); the Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Case 
Western Reserve University and University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center, 
Cleveland (C.T.L.); the Center for Translation Research and Implementation 
Science and Division of Cardiovascular Sciences, National Heart, Lung, and Blood 
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD (G.A.M.); and the School 
of Medicine and Telehealth Center, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo 
Horizonte, Brazil (B.R.N., A.L.P.R.).

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2017 Aug 24;377(8):780-781.
    N Engl J Med. 2018 Jan 4;378(1):e2.
    N Engl J Med. 2018 Jan 04;378(1):e2.
    N Engl J Med. 2018 Jan 04;378(1):e2.
    N Engl J Med. 2018 Jan 04;378(1):e2.
    N Engl J Med. 2018 Jan 04;378(1):e2.

BACKGROUND: Rheumatic heart disease remains an important preventable cause of 
cardiovascular death and disability, particularly in low-income and 
middle-income countries. We estimated global, regional, and national trends in 
the prevalence of and mortality due to rheumatic heart disease as part of the 
2015 Global Burden of Disease study.
METHODS: We systematically reviewed data on fatal and nonfatal rheumatic heart 
disease for the period from 1990 through 2015. Two Global Burden of Disease 
analytic tools, the Cause of Death Ensemble model and DisMod-MR 2.1, were used 
to produce estimates of mortality and prevalence, including estimates of 
uncertainty.
RESULTS: We estimated that there were 319,400 (95% uncertainty interval, 297,300 
to 337,300) deaths due to rheumatic heart disease in 2015. Global 
age-standardized mortality due to rheumatic heart disease decreased by 47.8% 
(95% uncertainty interval, 44.7 to 50.9) from 1990 to 2015, but large 
differences were observed across regions. In 2015, the highest age-standardized 
mortality due to and prevalence of rheumatic heart disease were observed in 
Oceania, South Asia, and central sub-Saharan Africa. We estimated that in 2015 
there were 33.4 million (95% uncertainty interval, 29.7 million to 43.1 million) 
cases of rheumatic heart disease and 10.5 million (95% uncertainty interval, 9.6 
million to 11.5 million) disability-adjusted life-years due to rheumatic heart 
disease globally.
CONCLUSIONS: We estimated the global disease prevalence of and mortality due to 
rheumatic heart disease over a 25-year period. The health-related burden of 
rheumatic heart disease has declined worldwide, but high rates of disease 
persist in some of the poorest regions in the world. (Funded by the Bill and 
Melinda Gates Foundation and the Medtronic Foundation.).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1603693
PMID: 28834488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. J Phys Act Health. 2006 Oct;3(4):381-389. doi: 10.1123/jpah.3.4.381.

Physical Inactivity and Life Expectancy in Canada.

Katzmarzyk PT.

BACKGROUND: Although the prevalence of physical inactivity is high in Canada, 
few studies have assessed its public health impact.
METHODS: A cause-deleted methodology was employed to estimate the effects of 
physical inactivity on life expectancy. Life expectancy in 2002 was estimated 
from an abridged life table analysis, which was repeated after removing deaths 
from physical inactivity. Deaths from physical inactivity were estimated from 
published population-attributable fractions for coronary artery disease, stroke, 
hypertension, colon cancer, breast cancer, and type 2 diabetes.
RESULTS: Life expectancy was 79.7 y in the total population, 77.2 y in males, 
and 82.1 y in females. Compared to overall life expectancy, physical inactivity 
cause-deleted values were 0.86 y lower in the total population, 0.65 y lower in 
males, and 1.0 y lower in females.
CONCLUSIONS: Life expectancy could be increased by over 10 months if Canadians 
could be encouraged to be physically active.

DOI: 10.1123/jpah.3.4.381
PMID: 28834494961. J Diabetes. 2018 Apr;10(4):296-301. doi: 10.1111/1753-0407.12604. Epub 2017
Sep  29.

Lifetime cost for type 2 diabetes mellitus in Singapore.

Ang YG(1), Yap CW(1), You AX(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Services and Outcomes Research, National Healthcare Group, Singapore.

BACKGROUND: The mean annual direct medical cost of type 2 diabetes mellitus 
(T2DM) in Singapore has been found to be SGD 2034 using the prevalence-based 
approach, but the lifetime direct medical cost of T2DM in Singapore remains 
largely unknown. The aim of the present study was to determine the lifetime 
direct medical cost attributable to T2DM and provide estimates of potential 
savings if T2DM can be prevented or delayed.
METHODS: The incidence-based approach was used for the cost-of-illness analysis. 
Yearly medical expenses were obtained from a regional health system database in 
Singapore to estimate the lifetime medical cost of T2DM patients. Then, the 
lifetime medical cost of non-T2DM subjects was predicted using a regression 
model. From the database, gender- and age-specific annual survival rates of T2DM 
and non-T2DM subjects were obtained and survival-adjusted yearly expenses over 
the estimated remaining life span were added to obtain lifetime medical costs. 
The difference between T2DM and non-T2DM subjects was attributed to excess 
direct medical costs of T2DM.
RESULTS: The excess lifetime medical expenses for T2DM patients were SGD 
132 506, 108 589, 83 326 and 70 110 when the age of T2DM diagnosis was 40, 50, 
60, and 65 years, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Even though T2DM patients have a lower life expectancy, T2DM is 
associated with substantially higher lifetime medical costs. Delaying the onset 
of T2DM, especially in the young, may lead to lower lifetime medical expenses. 
If prevention costs can be kept sufficiently low, effective T2DM prevention 
efforts would likely lead to a reduction in long-term medical costs.

© 2017 Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine and John 
Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1753-0407.12604
PMID: 28834603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. ESC Heart Fail. 2015 Jun;2(2):58-68. doi: 10.1002/ehf2.12033.

Muscle wasting in ageing and chronic illness.

Ebner N(1), Sliziuk V(2), Scherbakov N(3), Sandek A(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Innovative Clinical Trials, Department of Cardiology and 
Pneumology, University Medical Center Göttingen (UMG), Göttingen, Germany.
(2)University Medical Center Göttingen, Heart Center Göttingen, Department of 
Cardiology and Pneumology, Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Center for Stroke Research, Department of Cardiology, Charité Medical School, 
Campus Virchow-Klinikum, Berlin, Germany.

PURPOSE: As life expectancy increases, muscle wasting is becoming a more and 
more important public health problem. This review summarizes the current 
knowledge of pathophysiological mechanisms underlying muscle loss in ageing and 
chronic diseases such as heart failure and discusses evolving interventional 
strategies.
RECENT FINDINGS: Loss of skeletal muscle mass and strength is a common 
phenomenon in a wide variety of disorders associated with ageing and 
morbidity-associated catabolic conditions such as chronic heart failure. Muscle 
wasting in ageing but otherwise healthy human beings is referred to as 
sarcopenia. Unlike cachexia in advanced stages of chronic heart failure, muscle 
wasting per se is not necessarily associated with weight loss. In this review, 
we discuss pathophysiological mechanisms underlying muscle loss in sarcopenia 
and cachexia, highlight similarities and differences of both conditions, and 
discuss therapeutic targets and possible treatments, such as exercise training, 
nutritional support, and drugs. Candidate drugs to treat muscle wasting disease 
include myostatin antagonists, ghrelin agonists, selective androgen receptor 
molecules, megestrol acetate, activin receptor antagonists, espindolol, and fast 
skeletal muscle troponin inhibitors.
SUMMARY: Present approaches to muscle wasting disease include exercise training, 
nutritional support, and drugs, although particularly the latter remain 
currently restricted to clinical studies. Optimizing skeletal muscle mass and 
function in ageing and chronic illness including heart failure is one of the 
chapters that are far from finished and gains future potential for new 
therapeutic interventions to come.

© 2015 The Authors. ESC Heart Failure published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on 
behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1002/ehf2.12033
PMCID: PMC6410534
PMID: 28834653

Conflict of interest statement: None declared


963. Cell Rep. 2017 Aug 22;20(8):1936-1949. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2017.07.070.

Zscan4 Inhibits Maintenance DNA Methylation to Facilitate Telomere Elongation in 
Mouse Embryonic Stem Cells.

Dan J(1), Rousseau P(2), Hardikar S(1), Veland N(3), Wong J(4), Autexier C(5), 
Chen T(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epigenetics and Molecular Carcinogenesis, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Smithville, TX 78957, USA; Center for Cancer 
Epigenetics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Smithville, TX 
78957, USA.
(2)Bloomfield Center for Research in Aging, Lady Davis Institute for Medical 
Research, Jewish General Hospital, McGill University, Montréal, Québec H3T 1E2, 
Canada.
(3)Department of Epigenetics and Molecular Carcinogenesis, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Smithville, TX 78957, USA; Center for Cancer 
Epigenetics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Smithville, TX 
78957, USA; The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center UTHealth Graduate 
School of Biomedical Sciences, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(4)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Regulatory Biology, Institute of Biomedical 
Sciences and School of Life Sciences, East China Normal University, Shanghai 
200241, China.
(5)Bloomfield Center for Research in Aging, Lady Davis Institute for Medical 
Research, Jewish General Hospital, McGill University, Montréal, Québec H3T 1E2, 
Canada; Division of Experimental Medicine, Department of Anatomy and Cell 
Biology, McGill University, Montréal, Québec H3A 0C7, Canada.
(6)Department of Epigenetics and Molecular Carcinogenesis, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Smithville, TX 78957, USA; Center for Cancer 
Epigenetics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Smithville, TX 
78957, USA; The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center UTHealth Graduate 
School of Biomedical Sciences, Houston, TX 77030, USA. Electronic address: 
tchen2@mdanderson.org.

Proper telomere length is essential for embryonic stem cell (ESC) self-renewal 
and pluripotency. Mouse ESCs (mESCs) sporadically convert to a transient 
totipotent state similar to that of two-cell (2C) embryos to recover shortened 
telomeres. Zscan4, which exhibits a burst of expression in 2C-like mESCs, is 
required for telomere extension in these cells. However, the mechanism by which 
Zscan4 extends telomeres remains elusive. Here, we show that Zscan4 facilitates 
telomere elongation by inducing global DNA demethylation through downregulation 
of Uhrf1 and Dnmt1, major components of the maintenance DNA methylation 
machinery. Mechanistically, Zscan4 recruits Uhrf1 and Dnmt1 and promotes their 
degradation, which depends on the E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of Uhrf1. 
Blocking DNA demethylation prevents telomere elongation associated with Zscan4 
expression, suggesting that DNA demethylation mediates the effect of Zscan4. Our 
results define a molecular pathway that contributes to the maintenance of 
telomere length homeostasis in mESCs.

Copyright © 2017 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2017.07.070
PMCID: PMC5595351
PMID: 28834755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Medicine (Baltimore). 2017 Aug;96(34):e7840. doi:
10.1097/MD.0000000000007840.

Does the choice of tariff matter?: A comparison of EQ-5D-5L utility scores using 
Chinese, UK, and Japanese tariffs on patients with psoriasis vulgaris in Central 
South China.

Zhao Y(1), Li SP, Liu L, Zhang JL, Chen G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Heping Hospital, Changzhi Medical College, 
Changzhi, Shanxi School of Health Care Management, Shandong University Key 
Laboratory of Health Economics and Policy Research, NHFPC (Shandong University), 
Jinan Department of Dermatology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha, China Centre for Health Economics, Monash Business School, Monash 
University, Clayton, Australia.

There is an increasing trend globally to develop country-specific tariffs that 
can theoretically better reflect population's preferences on health states for 
preference-based health-related quality-of-life instruments, also known as 
multiattribute utility instruments. This study focused on the most recently 
developed 5-level version of EuroQol-5 Dimension (EQ-5D) questionnaire, 1 of the 
world's most well-known multiattribute utility instruments, and aimed to 
empirically explore the agreements and known-group validities of applying the 
country-specific tariff versus tariffs developed from other countries using a 
sample of psoriasis vulgaris patients in Mainland China.A convenience sampling 
framework was adopted to recruit patients diagnosed with psoriasis vulgaris from 
Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, China, between May 2014 and February 
2015. The 5-level EuroQol-5 dimensions (EQ-5D-5L) utilities were scored by using 
the Chinese, Japanese, and UK tariffs. Health state utilities were compared 
using a range of nonparametric test. The intraclass correlation coefficients and 
Bland-Altman plots were used to examine the agreements among the 3 EQ-5D-5L 
scores. Health state utility decrements between known groups were investigated 
using both effect size and a regression analysis.In all, 350 patients (aged 16 
years or older) were recruited. There were significant differences among the 3 
national tariff sets. Overall, 3 tariffs showed excellent agreements (intraclass 
correlation coefficient >0.90); however, the wide limits of agreement from the 
Bland-Altman plots suggest that these tariffs cannot be used interchangeably. 
The EQ-5D-5L scores using the Chinese-specific tariff showed the best 
known-group validity than the other 2 tariffs in this Chinese patient sample. 
The evidence from this study supports the choice of the country-specific tariff 
to be used in Mainland China.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000007840
PMCID: PMC5572015
PMID: 28834893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


965. BMC Cardiovasc Disord. 2017 Aug 23;17(1):228. doi:
10.1186/s12872-017-0662-7.

Better Indigenous Risk stratification for Cardiac Health study (BIRCH) protocol: 
rationale and design of a cross-sectional and prospective cohort study to 
identify novel cardiovascular risk indicators in Aboriginal Australian and 
Torres Strait Islander adults.

Rémond MGW(1), Stewart S(2), Carrington MJ(3)(2), Marwick TH(3), Kingwell BA(3), 
Meikle P(3), O'Brien D(4), Marshall NS(4)(5), Maguire GP(3).

Author information:
(1)Baker Heart and Diabetes Institute, PO Box 6492, Melbourne, VIC, 3004, 
Australia. marc.remond@baker.edu.au.
(2)Mary MacKillop Institute for Health Research, Australian Catholic University, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(3)Baker Heart and Diabetes Institute, PO Box 6492, Melbourne, VIC, 3004, 
Australia.
(4)The Woolcock Institute of Medical Research, The University of Sydney, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia.
(5)Sydney Nursing School, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Of the estimated 10-11 year life expectancy gap between Indigenous 
(Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people) and non-Indigenous Australians, 
approximately one quarter is attributable to cardiovascular disease (CVD). Risk 
prediction of CVD is imperfect, but particularly limited for Indigenous 
Australians. The BIRCH (Better Indigenous Risk stratification for Cardiac 
Health) project aims to identify and assess existing and novel markers of early 
disease and risk in Indigenous Australians to optimise health outcomes in this 
disadvantaged population. It further aims to determine whether these markers are 
relevant in non-Indigenous Australians.
METHODS/DESIGN: BIRCH is a cross-sectional and prospective cohort study of 
Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australian adults (≥ 18 years) living in remote, 
regional and urban locations. Participants will be assessed for CVD risk 
factors, left ventricular mass and strain via echocardiography, sleep disordered 
breathing and quality via home-based polysomnography or actigraphy respectively, 
and plasma lipidomic profiles via mass spectrometry. Outcome data will comprise 
CVD events and death over a period of five years.
DISCUSSION: Results of BIRCH may increase understanding regarding the factors 
underlying the increased burden of CVD in Indigenous Australians in this 
setting. Further, it may identify novel markers of early disease and risk to 
inform the development of more accurate prediction equations. Better 
identification of at-risk individuals will promote more effective primary and 
secondary preventive initiatives to reduce Indigenous Australian health 
disadvantage.

DOI: 10.1186/s12872-017-0662-7
PMCID: PMC5569545
PMID: 28835227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: At 
the time of publication, ethical approval for the study has been obtained from 
the Central Australian Human research Ethics Committee (HREC-15-355) and the 
Townsville Hospital and Health Service Human Research Ethics Committee 
(HREC/16/QTHS/46, SSA/16/QTHS/173). Written informed consent is a requirement of 
participation in the BIRCH study. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. 
COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing interests. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


966. Biomed Eng Online. 2017 Aug 23;16(1):107. doi: 10.1186/s12938-017-0397-9.

Noise-assisted multivariate empirical mode decomposition for multichannel EMG 
signals.

Zhang Y(1)(2)(3), Xu P(4)(5), Li P(4)(5), Duan K(4)(5), Wen Y(6), Yang Q(6), 
Zhang T(4)(5), Yao D(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Aeronautics and Astronautics, University of Electronic Science and 
Technology of China, Chengdu, 611731, China. Yi.zhang@uestc.edu.cn.
(2)Key Laboratory for NeuroInformation of Ministry of Education, School of Life 
Science and Technology, University of Electronic Science and Technology of 
China, No. 4, Section 2 of North Jianshe Road, Chengdu, 610054, China. 
Yi.zhang@uestc.edu.cn.
(3)Center for Information in BioMedicine, University of Electronic Science and 
Technology of China, No. 4, Section 2 of North Jianshe Road, 610054, Chengdu, 
China. Yi.zhang@uestc.edu.cn.
(4)Key Laboratory for NeuroInformation of Ministry of Education, School of Life 
Science and Technology, University of Electronic Science and Technology of 
China, No. 4, Section 2 of North Jianshe Road, Chengdu, 610054, China.
(5)Center for Information in BioMedicine, University of Electronic Science and 
Technology of China, No. 4, Section 2 of North Jianshe Road, 610054, Chengdu, 
China.
(6)School of Aeronautics and Astronautics, University of Electronic Science and 
Technology of China, Chengdu, 611731, China.

BACKGROUND: Ensemble Empirical Mode Decomposition (EEMD) has been popularised 
for single-channel Electromyography (EMG) signal processing as it can 
effectively extract the temporal information of the EMG time series. However, 
few papers examine the temporal and spatial characteristics across multiple 
muscle groups in relation to multichannel EMG signals.
EXPERIMENT: The experimental data was obtained from the Center for Machine 
Learning and Intelligent Systems, University of California Irvine (UCI). The 
data was donated by the Nueva Granada Military University and the Technopark 
node Manizales in Colombia. The databases of 11 male subjects from the healthy 
group were taken into the study. The subjects undergo three exercise programs, 
leg extension from a sitting position (sitting), flexion of the leg up 
(standing), and gait (walking), while four electrodes were placed on biceps 
femoris (BF), vastus medialis (VM), rectus femoris (RF), and semitendinosus 
(ST).
METHODS: Based on the experimental data, a comparative study is provided by 
assessing the Empirical Mode Decomposition (EMD)-based approaches, EEMD, 
Multivariate EMD (MEMD), and Noise-Assisted MEMD (NA-MEMD). The outcomes from 
these approaches are then quantitatively estimated on the basis of three 
criterions, the number of Intrinsic Mode Functions (IMFs), mode-alignment and 
mode-mixing.
RESULTS: Both MEMD and NA-MEMD methods (except EEMD) can guarantee equal numbers 
of IMFs. For mode-alignment and mode-mixing, NA-MEMD is optimal compared with 
MEMD and EEMD, and MEMD is merely better than EEMD.
CONCLUSIONS: This study proposes the NA-MEMD approach for multichannel EMG 
signal processing. This finding implies that NA-MEMD is effective for 
simultaneously analysing IMFs based frequency bands. It has a vital clinical 
implication in exploring the neuromuscular patterns that enable the multiple 
muscle groups to coordinate while performing the functional activities of daily 
living.

DOI: 10.1186/s12938-017-0397-9
PMCID: PMC5569569
PMID: 28835251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Neurology. 2017 Sep 12;89(11):1107-1116. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000004313.
Epub  2017 Aug 23.

Alemtuzumab CARE-MS I 5-year follow-up: Durable efficacy in the absence of 
continuous MS therapy.

Havrdova E(1), Arnold DL(2), Cohen JA(2), Hartung HP(2), Fox EJ(2), Giovannoni 
G(2), Schippling S(2), Selmaj KW(2), Traboulsee A(2), Compston DAS(2), Margolin 
DH(2), Thangavelu K(2), Rodriguez CE(2), Jody D(2), Hogan RJ(2), Xenopoulos 
P(2), Panzara MA(2), Coles AJ; CARE-MS I and CAMMS03409 Investigators.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Neurology and Center for Clinical Neuroscience (E.H.), 
First Faculty of Medicine, Charles University and General University Hospital in 
Prague, Czech Republic; NeuroRx Research (D.L.A.), Montréal; Department of 
Neurology and Neurosurgery (D.L.A.), Montréal Neurological Institute, McGill 
University, Québec, Canada; Mellen Center (J.A.C.), Cleveland Clinic, OH; 
Department of Neurology and Center for Neuropsychiatry (H.-P.H.), Medical 
Faculty, Heinrich-Heine University, Düsseldorf, Germany; MS Clinic of Central 
Texas (E.J.F.), Central Texas Neurology Consultants, Round Rock; Queen Mary 
University of London (G.G.), Barts and The London School of Medicine, UK; 
Neuroimmunology and Multiple Sclerosis Research (S.S.), Department of Neurology, 
University Hospital Zürich and University of Zürich, Switzerland; Department of 
Neurology (K.W.S.), Medical University of Łódź, Poland; The University of 
British Columbia (A.T.), Vancouver, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences 
(D.A.S.C., A.J.C.), University of Cambridge, UK; Sanofi (D.H.M., K.T., C.E.R., 
D.J., M.A.P.), Cambridge, MA; Evidence Scientific Solutions (R.J.H.), Sydney, 
NSW, Australia; and Evidence Scientific Solutions (P.X.), Philadelphia, PA. 
M.A.P. is currently affiliated with Wave Life Sciences, Cambridge, MA. 
eva.havrdova@lf1.cuni.cz.
(2)From the Department of Neurology and Center for Clinical Neuroscience (E.H.), 
First Faculty of Medicine, Charles University and General University Hospital in 
Prague, Czech Republic; NeuroRx Research (D.L.A.), Montréal; Department of 
Neurology and Neurosurgery (D.L.A.), Montréal Neurological Institute, McGill 
University, Québec, Canada; Mellen Center (J.A.C.), Cleveland Clinic, OH; 
Department of Neurology and Center for Neuropsychiatry (H.-P.H.), Medical 
Faculty, Heinrich-Heine University, Düsseldorf, Germany; MS Clinic of Central 
Texas (E.J.F.), Central Texas Neurology Consultants, Round Rock; Queen Mary 
University of London (G.G.), Barts and The London School of Medicine, UK; 
Neuroimmunology and Multiple Sclerosis Research (S.S.), Department of Neurology, 
University Hospital Zürich and University of Zürich, Switzerland; Department of 
Neurology (K.W.S.), Medical University of Łódź, Poland; The University of 
British Columbia (A.T.), Vancouver, Canada; Department of Clinical Neurosciences 
(D.A.S.C., A.J.C.), University of Cambridge, UK; Sanofi (D.H.M., K.T., C.E.R., 
D.J., M.A.P.), Cambridge, MA; Evidence Scientific Solutions (R.J.H.), Sydney, 
NSW, Australia; and Evidence Scientific Solutions (P.X.), Philadelphia, PA. 
M.A.P. is currently affiliated with Wave Life Sciences, Cambridge, MA.

Erratum in
    Neurology. 2018 Apr 17;90(16):755.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate 5-year efficacy and safety of alemtuzumab in 
treatment-naive patients with active relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS) (CARE-MS I; 
NCT00530348).
METHODS: Alemtuzumab-treated patients received treatment courses at baseline and 
12 months later; after the core study, they could enter an extension 
(NCT00930553) with as-needed alemtuzumab retreatment for relapse or MRI 
activity. Assessments included annualized relapse rate (ARR), 6-month confirmed 
disability worsening (CDW; ≥1-point Expanded Disability Status Scale [EDSS] 
score increase [≥1.5 if baseline EDSS = 0]), 6-month confirmed disability 
improvement (CDI; ≥1-point EDSS decrease [baseline score ≥2.0]), no evidence of 
disease activity (NEDA), brain volume loss (BVL), and adverse events (AEs).
RESULTS: Most alemtuzumab-treated patients (95.1%) completing CARE-MS I enrolled 
in the extension; 68.5% received no additional alemtuzumab treatment. ARR 
remained low in years 3, 4, and 5 (0.19, 0.14, and 0.15). Over years 0-5, 79.7% 
were free of 6-month CDW; 33.4% achieved 6-month CDI. Most patients (61.7%, 
60.2%, and 62.4%) had NEDA in years 3, 4, and 5. Median yearly BVL improved over 
years 2-4, remaining low in year 5 (years 1-5: -0.59%, -0.25%, -0.19%, -0.15%, 
and -0.20%). Exposure-adjusted incidence rates of most AEs declined in the 
extension relative to the core study. Thyroid disorder incidences peaked at year 
3 and subsequently declined.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on these data, alemtuzumab provides durable efficacy through 
5 years in the absence of continuous treatment, with most patients not receiving 
additional courses.
CLINICALTRIALSGOV IDENTIFIER: NCT00530348; NCT00930553.
CLASSIFICATION OF EVIDENCE: This study provides Class III evidence that 
alemtuzumab durably improves efficacy outcomes and slows BVL in patients with 
RRMS.

Copyright © 2017 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on 
behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000004313
PMCID: PMC5595278
PMID: 28835401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Neurology. 2017 Sep 12;89(11):1117-1126. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000004354.
Epub  2017 Aug 23.

Alemtuzumab CARE-MS II 5-year follow-up: Efficacy and safety findings.

Coles AJ(1), Cohen JA(2), Fox EJ(2), Giovannoni G(2), Hartung HP(2), Havrdova 
E(2), Schippling S(2), Selmaj KW(2), Traboulsee A(2), Compston DAS(2), Margolin 
DH(2), Thangavelu K(2), Chirieac MC(2), Jody D(2), Xenopoulos P(2), Hogan RJ(2), 
Panzara MA(2), Arnold DL(2); CARE-MS II and CAMMS03409 Investigators.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Clinical Neurosciences (A.J.C., D.A.S.C.), University 
of Cambridge, UK; Mellen Center (J.A.C.), Cleveland Clinic, OH; MS Clinic of 
Central Texas (E.J.F.), Central Texas Neurology Consultants, Round Rock; Queen 
Mary University of London (G.G.), Barts and the London School of Medicine, UK; 
Department of Neurology and Center for Neuropsychiatry (H.-P.H.), Medical 
Faculty, Heinrich-Heine University, Düsseldorf, Germany; Department of Neurology 
and Center for Clinical Neuroscience (E.H.), First Faculty of Medicine, Charles 
University and General Hospital in Prague, Czech Republic; Neuroimmunology and 
Multiple Sclerosis Research, Department of Neurology (S.S.), University Hospital 
Zürich and University of Zürich, Switzerland; Department of Neurology (K.W.S.), 
Medical University of Łódź, Poland; The University of British Columbia (A.T.), 
Vancouver, Canada; Sanofi (D.H.M., K.T., M.C.C., D.J., M.A.P.), Cambridge, MA; 
Envision Scientific Solutions (P.X.), Philadelphia, PA; Envision Scientific 
Solutions (R.J.H.), Sydney, NSW, Australia; NeuroRx Research (D.L.A.), Montréal; 
Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery (D.L.A.), Montréal Neurological 
Institute, McGill University, Québec, Canada. M.A.P. is currently affiliated 
with Wave Life Sciences, Cambridge, MA. ajc1020@medschl.cam.ac.uk.
(2)From the Department of Clinical Neurosciences (A.J.C., D.A.S.C.), University 
of Cambridge, UK; Mellen Center (J.A.C.), Cleveland Clinic, OH; MS Clinic of 
Central Texas (E.J.F.), Central Texas Neurology Consultants, Round Rock; Queen 
Mary University of London (G.G.), Barts and the London School of Medicine, UK; 
Department of Neurology and Center for Neuropsychiatry (H.-P.H.), Medical 
Faculty, Heinrich-Heine University, Düsseldorf, Germany; Department of Neurology 
and Center for Clinical Neuroscience (E.H.), First Faculty of Medicine, Charles 
University and General Hospital in Prague, Czech Republic; Neuroimmunology and 
Multiple Sclerosis Research, Department of Neurology (S.S.), University Hospital 
Zürich and University of Zürich, Switzerland; Department of Neurology (K.W.S.), 
Medical University of Łódź, Poland; The University of British Columbia (A.T.), 
Vancouver, Canada; Sanofi (D.H.M., K.T., M.C.C., D.J., M.A.P.), Cambridge, MA; 
Envision Scientific Solutions (P.X.), Philadelphia, PA; Envision Scientific 
Solutions (R.J.H.), Sydney, NSW, Australia; NeuroRx Research (D.L.A.), Montréal; 
Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery (D.L.A.), Montréal Neurological 
Institute, McGill University, Québec, Canada. M.A.P. is currently affiliated 
with Wave Life Sciences, Cambridge, MA.

Comment in
    Neurology. 2017 Sep 12;89(11):1098-1100.
    Neurology. 2018 Sep 18;91(12):580.
    Neurology. 2018 Sep 18;91(12):581-582.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate 5-year efficacy and safety of alemtuzumab in patients 
with active relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis and inadequate response to 
prior therapy.
METHODS: In the 2-year Comparison of Alemtuzumab and Rebif Efficacy in Multiple 
Sclerosis (CARE-MS) II study (NCT00548405), alemtuzumab-treated patients 
received 2 courses (baseline and 12 months later). Patients could enter an 
extension (NCT00930553), with as-needed alemtuzumab retreatment for relapse or 
MRI activity. Annualized relapse rate (ARR), 6-month confirmed disability 
worsening (CDW; ≥1-point Expanded Disability Status Scale [EDSS] score increase 
[≥1.5 if baseline EDSS = 0]), 6-month confirmed disability improvement (CDI; 
≥1-point EDSS decrease [baseline score ≥2.0]), no evidence of disease activity 
(NEDA), brain volume loss (BVL), and adverse events (AEs) were assessed.
RESULTS: Most alemtuzumab-treated patients (92.9%) who completed CARE-MS II 
entered the extension; 59.8% received no alemtuzumab retreatment. ARR was low in 
each extension year (years 3-5: 0.22, 0.23, 0.18). Through 5 years, 75.1% of 
patients were free of 6-month CDW; 42.9% achieved 6-month CDI. In years 3, 4, 
and 5, proportions with NEDA were 52.9%, 54.2%, and 58.2%, respectively. Median 
yearly BVL remained low in the extension (years 1-5: -0.48%, -0.22%, -0.10%, 
-0.19%, -0.07%). AE exposure-adjusted incidence rates in the extension were 
lower than in the core study. Thyroid disorders peaked at year 3, declining 
thereafter.
CONCLUSIONS: Alemtuzumab provides durable efficacy through 5 years in patients 
with an inadequate response to prior therapy in the absence of continuous 
treatment.
CLASSIFICATION OF EVIDENCE: This study provides Class III evidence that 
alemtuzumab provides efficacy and slowing of brain atrophy through 5 years.

Copyright © 2017 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on 
behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000004354
PMCID: PMC5595276
PMID: 28835403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Neurology. 2017 Sep 19;89(12):1237-1243. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000004391.
Epub  2017 Aug 23.

Erenumab (AMG 334) in episodic migraine: Interim analysis of an ongoing 
open-label study.

Ashina M(1), Dodick D(2), Goadsby PJ(2), Reuter U(2), Silberstein S(2), Zhang 
F(2), Gage JR(2), Cheng S(2), Mikol DD(2), Lenz RA(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Neurology (M.A.), Danish Headache Center, 
Rigshospitalet Glostrup, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of 
Copenhagen, Denmark; Department of Neurology (D.D.), Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, 
AZ; NIHR-Wellcome Trust King's Clinical Research Facility (P.J.G.), Kings 
College London, UK; Department of Neurology (U.R.), Charité Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Germany; Jefferson Headache Center (S.S.), Thomas Jefferson University, 
Philadelphia, PA; Amgen Inc. (F.Z., S.C., D.D.M., R.A.L.), Thousand Oaks; and 
Gage Medical Writing, LLC (J.R.G.), Moorpark, CA. ashina@dadlnet.dk.
(2)From the Department of Neurology (M.A.), Danish Headache Center, 
Rigshospitalet Glostrup, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of 
Copenhagen, Denmark; Department of Neurology (D.D.), Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, 
AZ; NIHR-Wellcome Trust King's Clinical Research Facility (P.J.G.), Kings 
College London, UK; Department of Neurology (U.R.), Charité Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Germany; Jefferson Headache Center (S.S.), Thomas Jefferson University, 
Philadelphia, PA; Amgen Inc. (F.Z., S.C., D.D.M., R.A.L.), Thousand Oaks; and 
Gage Medical Writing, LLC (J.R.G.), Moorpark, CA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess long-term safety and efficacy of anti-calcitonin 
gene-related peptide receptor erenumab in patients with episodic migraine (EM).
METHODS: Patients enrolled in a 12-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
clinical trial (NCT01952574) who continued in an open-label extension (OLE) 
study will receive erenumab 70 mg every 4 weeks for up to 5 years. This 
preplanned interim analysis, conducted after all participants had completed the 
1-year open-label follow-up, evaluated changes in monthly migraine days (MMD), 
achievement of ≥50%, ≥75%, and 100% reductions, Headache Impact Test (HIT-6) 
score, Migraine-Specific Quality of Life (MSQ), Migraine Disability Assessment 
(MIDAS), and safety. Data reported as observed without imputation for missing 
data.
RESULTS: Of 472 patients enrolled in the parent study, 383 continued in the OLE 
with a median exposure to erenumab of 575 days (range 28-822 days). Mean (SD) 
MMD were 8.8 (2.6) at parent study baseline, 6.3 (4.2) at week 12 (beginning of 
OLE), and 3.7 (4.0) at week 64 (mean change from baseline [reduction] of 5.0 
days). At week 64, 65%, 42%, and 26% achieved ≥50%, ≥75%, and 100% reduction in 
MMD, respectively. Mean HIT-6 scores were 60.2 (6.3) at baseline and 51.7 (9.2) 
at week 64. MSQ and MIDAS improvements from baseline were maintained through 
week 64. Safety profiles during the OLE were similar to those in the 
double-blind phase, which overall were similar to placebo.
CONCLUSIONS: One-year efficacy, supported by functional improvements and 
favorable safety and tolerability profiles, supports further investigation of 
erenumab as a preventive treatment in patients with EM.
CLINICALTRIALSGOV IDENTIFIER: NCT01952574.
CLASSIFICATION OF EVIDENCE: This study provides Class IV evidence that for 
patients with episodic migraine, erenumab reduces long-term MMD and improves 
headache-related disability and migraine-specific quality of life.

© 2017 American Academy of Neurology.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000004391
PMID: 28835404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Geriatr Orthop Surg Rehabil. 2017 Sep;8(3):173-180. doi: 
10.1177/2151458517713821. Epub 2017 Jul 7.

Hip Fractures in Elderly People: Surgery or No Surgery? A Systematic Review and 
Meta-Analysis.

van de Ree CLP(1), De Jongh MAC(1)(2), Peeters CMM(3), de Munter L(1), Roukema 
JA(1)(4), Gosens T(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department Trauma TopCare, Elisabeth-TweeSteden Hospital, Tilburg, the 
Netherlands.
(2)Brabant Trauma Registry, Network Emergency Care Brabant, Tilburg, the 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Elisabeth-TweeSteden Hospital, Tilburg, 
the Netherlands.
(4)Center of Psychology in Somatic Diseases, Tilburg University, Tilburg, the 
Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: Increasing numbers of patients with hip fractures also have 
advanced comorbidities. A majority are treated surgically. However, a 
significantly increasing percentage of medically unfit patients with 
unacceptably high risk of perioperative death are treated nonoperatively. 
Important questions about patients' prefracture quality of life (QOL) and future 
perspectives should be asked before considering different treatment options to 
assess what kind of treatment is advisable in frail elderly high-risk patients 
with a hip fracture.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this review was to provide an overview of differences in 
mortality, health-related QOL [(HR)QOL], functional outcome, and costs between 
nonoperative management (NOM) and operative management (OM) of hip fractures in 
patients above 65 years.
METHODS: A systematic literature search was performed in EMBASE, OvidSP, PubMed, 
Cochrane Central, and Web of Science for observational studies and trials. 
Observational studies and randomized controlled trials comparing NOM with OM in 
hip fracture patients were selected. The methodological quality of the selected 
studies was assessed according to the Methodological Index for Nonrandomized 
Studies (MINORS) or Furlan checklist.
RESULTS: Seven observational studies were included with a total of 1189 
patients, of whom 242 (20.3%) were treated conservatively. The methodological 
quality of the studies was moderate (mean: 14.7, standard deviation [SD]: 1.5). 
The 30-day and 1-year mortalities were higher in the nonoperative group (odds 
ratio [OR]: 3.95, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.43-10.96; OR: 3.84, 95% CI: 
1.57-9.41). None of the included studies compared QOL, functional outcome, or 
health-care costs between the 2 groups.
CONCLUSION: This systematic review and meta-analysis demonstrated that only a 
few studies with small number of patients comparing NOM with OM were published. 
A significantly higher 30-day and 1-year mortality was revealed in 
nonoperatively treated hip fracture patients. No data were found examining 
(HR)QOL and costs. Further work is needed to enable shared decision-making and 
to initiate NOM in frail elderly patients with advanced comorbidity and limited 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1177/2151458517713821
PMCID: PMC5557195
PMID: 28835875

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


971. Int J Public Health. 2018 Jan;63(1):41-48. doi: 10.1007/s00038-017-1029-7.
Epub  2017 Aug 23.

The contribution of alcohol consumption and smoking to educational inequalities 
in life expectancy among Swedish men and women during 1991-2008.

Östergren O(1), Martikainen P(2), Lundberg O(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Equity Studies, Stockholm University/Karolinska Institutet, 
Sveavägen 160, 106 91, Stockholm, Sweden. olof.ostergren@chess.su.se.
(2)Department of Social Research, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(3)Centre for Health Equity Studies, Stockholm University/Karolinska Institutet, 
Sveavägen 160, 106 91, Stockholm, Sweden.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the level and changes in contribution of smoking and 
alcohol-related mortality to educational differences in life expectancy in 
Sweden.
METHODS: We used register data on the Swedish population at ages 30-74 during 
1991-2008. Cause of death was used to identify alcohol-related deaths, while 
smoking-related mortality was estimated using lung cancer mortality to 
indirectly assess the impact of smoking on all-cause mortality.
RESULTS: Alcohol consumption and smoking contributed to educational differences 
in life expectancy. Alcohol-related mortality was higher among men and 
contributed substantially to inequalities among men and made a small (but 
increasing) contribution to inequalities among women. Smoking-related mortality 
decreased among men but increased among women, primarily among the low educated. 
At the end of the follow-up, smoking-related mortality were at similar levels 
among men and women. The widening gap in life expectancy among women could 
largely be attributed to smoking.
CONCLUSIONS: Smoking and alcohol consumption contribute to educational 
differences in life expectancy among men and women. The majority of the widening 
in the educational gap in mortality among women can be attributed to alcohol and 
smoking-related mortality.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-017-1029-7
PMCID: PMC5766714
PMID: 28835983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest. ETHICAL PERMISSION: The use of data was 
approved by the KI regional ethics committee (Ref. 02-481). FUNDING: This work 
was supported by the Faculty of Social Sciences, Stockholm University, the 
Academy of Finland, the Swedish Research Council for Health, Working Life and 
Welfare (Grant No. 1933006), as well as the Joint Committee for Nordic Research 
Councils for the Humanities and the Social Sciences (NOS-HS) (Project No. 
4.4-2015-61).


972. Eur Spine J. 2018 Mar;27(3):678-684. doi: 10.1007/s00586-017-5274-5. Epub
2017  Aug 23.

A cost-effectiveness comparisons of adult spinal deformity surgery in the United 
States and Japan.

Yagi M(1)(2), Ames CP(3), Keefe M(3), Hosogane N(4), Smith JS(5), Shaffrey 
CI(5), Schwab F(6), Lafage V(6), Shay Bess R(7), Matsumoto M(1), Watanabe K(8); 
International Spine Study Group (ISSG).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Keio University School of Medicine, 35 
Shinanomachi, Shinjyuku-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, National Hospital Organization, Murayama 
Medical Center, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of California, San Francisco, 
CA, USA.
(4)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, National Defense Medical College, 
Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Virginia Health System, 
Charlottesville, VA, USA.
(6)Spine Service, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, NY, USA.
(7)Presbyterian/St. Luke's Medical Center and Rocky Mountain Hospital for 
Children, Denver, CO, USA.
(8)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Keio University School of Medicine, 35 
Shinanomachi, Shinjyuku-ku, Tokyo, Japan. watakota@gmail.com.

PURPOSE: Information about the cost-effectiveness of surgical procedures for 
adult spinal deformity (ASD) is critical for providing appropriate treatments 
for these patients. The purposes of this study were to compare the direct cost 
and cost-effectiveness of surgery for ASD in the United States (US) and Japan 
(JP).
METHODS: Retrospective analysis of 76 US and 76 JP patients receiving surgery 
for ASD with ≥2-year follow-up was identified. Data analysis included 
preoperative and postoperative demographic, radiographic, health-related quality 
of life (HRQOL), and direct cost for surgery. An incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) was determined using cost/quality-adjusted life years (QALY). The 
cost/QALY was calculated from the 2-year cost and HRQOL data.
RESULTS: JP exhibited worse baseline spinopelvic alignment than the US (pelvic 
incidence and lumbar lordosis: 35.4° vs 22.7°, p < 0.01). The US had more 
three-column osteotomies (50 vs 16%), and shorter hospital stay (7.9 vs 
22.7 days) (p < 0.05). The US demonstrated worse postoperative ODI (41.3 vs. 
33.9%) and greater revision surgery rate (40 vs 10%) (p < 0.05). Due to the high 
initial cost and revision frequency, the US had greater total cost ($92,133 vs. 
$49,647) and cost/QALY ($511,840 vs. $225,668) at 2-year follow-up (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Retrospective analysis comparing the direct costs and 
cost-effectiveness of ASD surgery in the US vs JP demonstrated that the total 
direct costs and cost/QALY were substantially higher in the US than JP. 
Variations in patient cohort, healthcare costs, revision frequencies, and HRQOL 
improvement influenced the cost/QALY differential between these countries.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-017-5274-5
PMID: 28836012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2017 Oct;46(8):711-721. doi: 10.1111/apt.14271. Epub
 2017 Aug 24.

Systematic review: cost-effectiveness of direct-acting antivirals for treatment 
of hepatitis C genotypes 2-6.

He T(1), Lopez-Olivo MA(2), Hur C(3)(4)(5), Chhatwal J(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, 
Peking Union Medical College and Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, 
China.
(2)Department of General Internal Medicine, The University of Texas, MD Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(3)Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
MA, USA.
(4)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Liver Center and Gastrointestinal Division, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: The availability of direct-acting antivirals (DAAs) has dramatically 
changed the landscape of hepatitis C virus (HCV) therapy; however, the cost and 
budget requirements for DAA treatment have been widely debated.
AIMS: To systematically review published studies evaluating the 
cost-effectiveness of DAAs for HCV genotype 2-6 infections, and synthesise and 
re-evaluate results with updated drug prices.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic search of various electronic databases, 
including Medline, EMBASE, Cochrane library and EconLit for cost-effectiveness 
studies published from 2011 to 2016. Studies evaluating DAAs for genotypes 2-6 
were included. Reported costs, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were abstracted. We re-estimated 
ICERs by varying the price of DAAs from $20 000 to $100 000, and estimated the 
threshold price at which DAA regimens would be deemed cost-effective (ICER≤$100 
000/QALY).
RESULTS: A total of 92 ICERs for 7 different DAA regimens from 10 published 
articles were included. Among the abstracted 92 ICERs, 20 were for genotype 2, 
40 for genotype 3, 30 for genotype 4, 2 for genotype 5 and none for genotype 6; 
therefore, only genotypes 2-5 were analysed. At the discounted price of $40 000, 
87.0% analyses found DAA regiments to be cost-effective, and 7.6% found to be 
cost-saving. The median threshold price below which DAAs would be deemed 
cost-effective was between $144 400 and $225 000, and cost-saving between $17 
300 and $25 400.
CONCLUSIONS: HCV treatment with DAAs is highly cost-effective in patients with 
HCV genotypes 2-5 at a $100 000/QALY threshold. Timely HCV treatment would be an 
optimal strategy from both a public health and economic perspective.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.14271
PMID: 28836278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Cell J. 2017 Oct;19(3):343-351. doi: 10.22074/cellj.2017.3919. Epub 2017 Aug
19.

Stochastic Cell Fate and Longevity of Offspring.

Dorri F(1), Pezeshk H(2), Sadeghi M(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.
(2)School of Mathematics, Statistics and Computer Science, College of Science, 
University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.
(3)National Institute of Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, Tehran, Iran.
(4)School of Biological Sciences, Institute for Research in Fundamental Sciences 
(IPM), Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: sadeghi@nigeb.ac.ir.

OBJECTIVE: Cellular decision-making is a key process in which cells with similar 
geneticand environmental background make dissimilar decisions. This stochastic 
process, which happens in prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells including stem cells, 
causes cellular diversity and phenotypic variation. In addition, fitness 
predicts and describes changes in the genetic composition of populations 
throughout the evolutionary history. Fitness may thus be defined as the ability 
to adapt and produce surviving offspring. Here, we present a mathematical model 
to predict the fitness of a cell and to address the fundamental issue of 
phenotypic variation. We study a basic decision-making scenario where a 
bacteriophage lambda reproduces in E. coli, using both the lytic and the 
lysogenic pathways. In the lytic pathway, the bacteriophage replicates itself 
