long-term health benefits in cardiac patients constitutes a big challenge today. 
The aim of this Telerehab III follow-up study was to assess whether a 6-month 
additional cardiac telerehabilitation programme could induce long-term health 
benefits and remain cost-efficient after the tele-intervention ended. Methods 
and results A total of 126 cardiac patients first completed the multicentre, 
randomised controlled telerehabilitation trial (Telerehab III, time points t0 to 
t1). They consequently entered the follow-up study (t1) with evaluations 2 years 
later (t2). A quantitative analysis of peak aerobic capacity (VO2 peak, primary 
endpoint), international physical activity questionnaire self-reported physical 
activity and HeartQoL quality of life (secondary endpoints) was performed. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was calculated. Even though a decline in 
VO2 peak (24 ± 8 ml/[min*kg] at t1 and 22 ± 6 ml/[min*kg] at t2; P ≤ 0.001) was 
observed within the tele-intervention group patients; overall they did better 
than the no tele-intervention group ( P = 0.032). Dividing the incremental cost 
(-€878/patient) by the differential incremental quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) (0.22 QALYs) yielded an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
-€3993/QALY. Conclusions A combined telerehabilitation and centre-based 
programme, followed by transitional telerehabilitation induced persistent health 
benefits and remained cost-efficient up to 2 years after the end of the 
intervention. A partial decline of the benefits originally achieved did occur 
once the tele-intervention ended. Healthcare professionals should reflect on how 
innovative cost-efficient care models could be implemented in standard care. 
Future research should focus on key behaviour change techniques in 
technology-based interventions that enable full persistence of long-term 
behaviour change and health benefits. This study is registered in the ISRCTN 
registry (ISRCTN29243064).

DOI: 10.1177/2047487317732274
PMID: 28925749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Rev Sci Tech. 2017 Apr;36(1):147-161. doi: 10.20506/rst.36.1.2618.

DALYs, dollars and dogs: how best to analyse the economics of controlling 
zoonoses.

Shaw APM, Rushton J, Roth F, Torgerson PR.

Decision-makers increasingly require comprehensive economic metrics summarising 
and comparing the benefits and costs of controlling zoonotic diseases. The 
impact of disease in people is conventionally quantified in non-monetary terms, 
usually a disability-adjusted life year (DALY), whereas the losses due to 
disease in animals, particularly livestock, are quantified in monetary terms. 
The potential for the development of a non-monetary metric for ill health in 
animals, based on life years lost and disability, is discussed and rejected. 
Within and across animal species and livestock production systems, maximising 
life spans is not a consistent goal and morbidity/disabilities have very 
different weights and often lead to culling. By relating livestock losses to a 
measure of national income forgone, the recently developed alternative of 
converting monetary losses due to livestock illness into an animal loss 
equivalent (ALE) provides a viable solution. Based on this, the literature on 
the economics of controlling zoonoses is revisited and four options for 
quantifying and comparing benefits and costs are examined and illustrated using 
numerical examples. These are i) the simplistic grouping of all monetary 
elements and their comparison to DALYs averted (described as the aggregate net 
cost method), ii) the separable costs method, iii) the use of ALEs to convert 
all benefits to a non-monetary equivalent, termed the zoonotic DALY (zDALY), or 
iv) the use of a full monetary cost-benefit analysis, based on converting DALYs 
to a monetary equivalent. The strengths and weaknesses of each are discussed. 
For effective prioritisation and decision-making, it is vital that an analytical 
approach is widely adopted which yields consistent results and which supports 
the control of zoonoses.

Publisher: Les décideurs politiques sont de plus en plus dépendants de méthodes 
exhaustives de mesure économique permettant de synthétiser et de comparer les 
avantages et les coûts de la lutte contre les zoonoses. Par convention, l’impact 
des maladies humaines est quantifié en des termes non monétaires, à savoir, le 
plus souvent, en « années de vie corrigées de l’incapacité » (DALY), tandis que 
les pertes dues aux maladies animales, en particulier celles affectant les 
animaux d’élevage, sont quantifiées en termes monétaires. Dans cet article, les 
auteurs envisagent (et réfutent) la possibilité de mettre en oeuvre un système 
de mesure non monétaire des problèmes sanitaires chez les animaux qui soit basé 
sur les années de vie perdues ou d’incapacité. La longévité n’est pas un 
objectif uniformément recherché dans tous les systèmes de production, ni pour 
toutes les espèces animales, voire pour tous les individus au sein d’une même 
espèce, et la morbidité et l’incapacité représentent des fardeaux très 
variables, conduisant souvent à l’abattage. Parce qu’elle relie les pertes 
animales à une mesure de la réduction du revenu intérieur entraînée, la récente 
proposition de convertir les pertes monétaires dues aux maladies du bétail en un 
« équivalent pertes animales » (indicateur ALE : animal loss equivalent) 
constitue une solution viable. À partir de ces considérations, les auteurs 
examinent la littérature dédiée aux aspects économiques de la lutte contre les 
zoonoses en détaillant quatre méthodes possibles pour en quantifier et comparer 
les avantages et les coûts, avec des exemples chiffrés. Ces possibilités sont : 
i) le simple regroupement de tous les éléments monétaires et leur comparaison en 
termes de DALY évitées (méthode dite de la présentation agrégée des coûts nets) 
; ii) la méthode des coûts séparables ; iii) l’utilisation d’un indicateur ALE 
pour convertir l’ensemble des bénéfices en leur équivalent non monétaire, 
désigné sous le terme de DALY zoonotique (zDALY) ; iv) le recours à une analyse 
monétaire coûts-avantages exhaustive, après avoir converti les DALY en leur 
équivalent monétaire. Les auteurs font ressortir les atouts et les faiblesses de 
chacune de ces méthodes. La priorisation et la prise de décisions gagneront en 
efficacité si les décideurs adoptent et appliquent largement une approche 
analytique permettant d’obtenir des résultats cohérents et de renforcer la lutte 
contre les zoonoses.

Publisher: Cada vez más, las instancias decisorias necesitan parámetros 
econométricos integrales, que sirvan para sintetizar y comparar los costos y 
beneficios de la lucha contra enfermedades zoonóticas. Convencionalmente, los 
efectos de una enfermedad en las personas se cuantifican en términos no 
monetarios, por lo general en forma de «años de vida ajustados en función de la 
discapacidad» (AVAD), mientras que las pérdidas inducidas por las enfermedades 
en animales, en particular el ganado, se cuantifican en valores monetarios. Los 
autores examinan y descartan la posible definición de parámetros no monetarios, 
basados en los años de vida perdidos y en la discapacidad, para cuantificar 
problemas zoosanitarios. Con independencia de la especie animal o el sistema de 
producción ganadera de que se trate, el de lograr una longevidad máxima no es un 
objetivo habitual, y los niveles de morbilidad o discapacidad, que suelen 
desembocar en el sacrificio sanitario, tienen un peso muy variable. En fechas 
recientes ha aparecido una alternativa que, al establecer una relación entre las 
pérdidas de ganado y una medida de la renta nacional prevista, ofrece una 
solución viable: se trata de convertir las pérdidas monetarias causadas por 
enfermedades del ganado en un «equivalente a las pérdidas animales» (animal loss 
equivalent: ALE). Partiendo de esta idea, los autores repasan la bibliografía 
sobre la economía de la lucha contra las zoonosis y examinan cuatro opciones 
para cuantificar y comparar beneficios y costos, ilustrándolas con ejemplos 
numéricos. Se trata de las siguientes: i) el simplificador procedimiento de 
agrupar todos los elementos monetarios y compararlos con los AVAD evitados 
(método que describen como del «costo agregado neto»); ii) el método de los 
costos específicos; iii) el uso de «equivalentes a las pérdidas animales» para 
convertir todos los beneficios en un equivalente no monetario que denominan AVAD 
por zoonosis; y iv) el uso de un análisis monetario completo de la relación 
entre beneficios y costos, basado en la conversión de los AVAD en un equivalente 
monetario. A continuación examinan los puntos fuertes y débiles de cada uno de 
esos métodos, y concluyen que para fijar prioridades y adoptar decisiones con 
eficacia es vital aplicar de forma generalizada un mismo planteamiento 
analítico, que arroje resultados coherentes y ayude así a combatir las zoonosis.

DOI: 10.20506/rst.36.1.2618
PMID: 28926019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Eur Heart J Qual Care Clin Outcomes. 2017 Jan 1;3(1):74-82. doi: 
10.1093/ehjqcco/qcw024.

Long-term clinical outcomes, health-related quality of life, and costs in 
different treatment modalities of stable coronary artery disease.

Stenvall H(1), Tierala I(1), Räsänen P(2), Laine M(1), Sintonen H(3), Roine 
RP(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Hospital 
District of Helsinki and Uusimaa, PO Box 705, 00029 HUS, Helsinki, Finland.
(2)External Evaluation Unit, Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa, 
Helsinki, Finland.
(3)Department of Public Health, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(4)Group Administration Helsinki, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University 
Hospital, Helsinki, Finland.
(5)Department of Health and Social Management, University of Eastern Finland, 
Kuopio, Finland.

AIMS: This study is a prospective, observational 8-year follow-up of 300 stable 
unselected coronary artery disease patients entering elective coronary 
angiography in 2002-03. Recorded were clinical outcomes, health-related quality 
of life (HRQoL), and secondary care costs after coronary artery bypass graft 
(CABG) surgery, percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), or medical therapy 
(MT).
METHODS AND RESULTS: HRQoL was measured by the 15D instrument at baseline, 6 
months, and 8 years. Regression techniques with an adjustment for relevant 
baseline characteristics were used to compare the 8-year survival and change in 
HRQoL between the groups. At baseline, all groups had statistically 
significantly impaired HRQoL compared with age- and gender-standardized general 
population. Six months after invasive interventions the mean HRQoL score had 
improved in a statistically significant and clinically important manner. This 
improvement was maintained at 8 years as the HRQoL no longer differed from that 
of the general population, whereas MT patients were still worse off. However, 
after adjustment for baseline characteristics, the groups no longer differed 
regarding 8-year survival or change in HRQoL among survivors. Mean 8-year 
secondary care costs were without (with) adjustment for baseline 
characteristics: €17 498 (16 730) for CABG, €7245 (6920) for PCI, and €4514 
(4580) for MT, respectively.
CONCLUSION: When adjusted for baseline characteristics, no statistically 
significant differences were found between the patient groups in 8-year survival 
or change in HRQoL among survivors. The 8-year mean secondary care costs of CABG 
were over two-fold and almost four-fold, even after adjustment for baseline 
characteristics, compared with those of PCI and MT.

Published on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. 
© The Author 2016. For permissions please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ehjqcco/qcw024
PMID: 28927186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Nutr J. 2017 Sep 19;16(1):61. doi: 10.1186/s12937-017-0284-z.

Food intake patterns and cardiovascular risk factors in Japanese adults: 
analyses from the 2012 National Health and nutrition survey, Japan.

Htun NC(1), Suga H(1), Imai S(1), Shimizu W(1), Takimoto H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutritional Epidemiology and Shokuiku, National Institutes of 
Biomedical Innovation, Health and Nutrition, 1-23-1 Toyama, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 
162-8636, Japan.
(2)Department of Nutritional Epidemiology and Shokuiku, National Institutes of 
Biomedical Innovation, Health and Nutrition, 1-23-1 Toyama, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 
162-8636, Japan. thidemi@nibiohn.go.jp.

BACKGROUND: There is an increasing global interest in the role of Japanese diet 
as a possible explanation for the nation's healthy diet, which contributes to 
the world's highest life-expectancy enjoyed in Japan. However, nationwide 
studies on current food intake status among general Japanese population have not 
been established yet. This study examined the association between food intake 
patterns and cardiovascular risk factors (CVRF) such as waist circumference 
(WC), body mass index (BMI), blood pressure (SBP, DBP), HbA1c and blood lipid 
profiles among general Japanese adults.
METHODS: De-identified data on the Japan National Health and Nutrition Survey 
(NHNS) 2012 with a total of 11,365 subjects aged 20-84 years were applied. Food 
intake patterns were derived by principal component analysis (PCA) based on 98 
food groups. Generalized linear regression analysis was used to assess the 
relation between the food intake patterns and CVRF.
RESULTS: We identified three food intake patterns: traditional Japanese, 
Westernized, and meat and fat patterns. Traditional Japanese pattern was 
significantly related to high WC and BMI in men, and high DBP in women. 
Westernized pattern was associated with lower SBP, but high total cholesterol 
and LDL cholesterol in both men and women. Meat and fat pattern was associated 
with high WC, high BMI, high blood pressure and blood lipid profiles in both men 
and women (trend P < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: The significant association between cardiovascular disease risks and 
three food intake patterns derived from the NHNS, showed a similar tendency to 
other dietary survey methods.

DOI: 10.1186/s12937-017-0284-z
PMCID: PMC5605968
PMID: 28927404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: We 
obtained the consent of the secondary use of the 2012 NHNS data from Ministry of 
Health, Labor and Welfare. This study was approved by the institutional review 
board of the National Institute of Health and Nutrition. CONSENT FOR 
PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they 
have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral 
with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


248. BMC Health Serv Res. 2017 Sep 19;17(1):668. doi: 10.1186/s12913-017-2615-3.

Trends in the use and costs of round-the-clock long-term care in the last two 
years of life among old people between 2002 and 2013 in Finland.

Forma L(1), Jylhä M(2), Pulkki J(2), Aaltonen M(2)(3), Raitanen J(2)(4), 
Rissanen P(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Social Sciences (health sciences) and Gerontology Research Center 
(GEREC), University of Tampere, 33014, Tampere, Finland. leena.forma@uta.fi.
(2)Faculty of Social Sciences (health sciences) and Gerontology Research Center 
(GEREC), University of Tampere, 33014, Tampere, Finland.
(3)Institute for Advanced Social Research, University of Tampere, Tampere, 
Finland.
(4)UKK-Institute for Health Promotion, Tampere, Finland.

BACKGROUND: The structure of long-term care (LTC) for old people has changed: 
care has been shifted from institutions to the community, and death is being 
postponed to increasingly old age. The aim of the study was to analyze how the 
use and costs of LTC in the last two years of life among old people changed 
between 2002 and 2013.
METHODS: Data were derived from national registers. The study population 
contains all those who died at the age of 70 years or older in 2002-2013 in 
Finland (N = 427,078). The costs were calculated using national unit cost 
information. Binary logistic regression and Cox proportional hazard models were 
used to study the association of year of death with use and costs of LTC.
RESULTS: The proportion of those who used LTC and the sum of days in LTC in the 
last two years of life increased between 2002 and 2013. The mean number of days 
in institutional LTC decreased, while that for sheltered housing increased. The 
costs of LTC per user decreased.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of LTC in the last two years of life increased, which was 
explained by the postponement of death to increasingly old age. Costs of LTC 
decreased as sheltered housing replaced institutional LTC. However, an accurate 
comparison of costs of different types of LTC is difficult, and the societal 
costs of sheltered housing are not well known.

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-017-2615-3
PMCID: PMC5606077
PMID: 28927415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL: The research plan was approved 
by the Pirkanmaa Hospital District Ethics Committee. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: 
Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no 
competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with 
regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


249. Mutat Res Rev Mutat Res. 2017 Jul;773:220-229. doi:
10.1016/j.mrrev.2016.10.001.  Epub 2016 Oct 13.

An insight into the genotoxicity assessment studies in dipterans.

Mishra N(1), Srivastava R(2), Agrawal UR(3), Tewari RR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Allahabad, Allahabad-211 002, India. 
Electronic address: nidhimishra1783@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Zoology, University of Allahabad, Allahabad-211 002, India.
(3)Department of Zoology, C.M.P. College (A constituent college of University of 
Allahabad), Mahatma Gandhi Marg, George Town, Allahabad-211002, India. 
Electronic address: umar_agrawal@rediffmail.com.

The dipterans have been widely utilized in genotoxicity assessment studies. 
Short life span, easy maintenance, production of large number of offspring in a 
single generation and the tissues with appropriate cell populations make these 
flies ideal for studies associated to developmental biology, diseases, genetics, 
genetic toxicology and stress biology in the group. Moreover, their cosmopolitan 
presence makes them suitable candidate for ecological bio-monitoring. An attempt 
has been made in the present review to reveal the significance of dipteran flies 
for assessing alterations in genetic content through various genotoxicity 
biomarkers and to summarize the gradual advancement in these studies. Recent 
studies on genotoxicity assays in dipterans have opened up a broader perspective 
for DNA repair related mechanistic studies, pre-screening of chemicals and 
environmental bio-monitoring. Studies in dipterans, other than Drosophila may be 
helpful in using them as an alternative model system for assessment of 
genotoxicity, especially at the gene level and further extension of these 
studies give a future insight to develop new strategies for maintaining 
environment friendly limits of the toxicants.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mrrev.2016.10.001
PMID: 28927530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Eur Urol Focus. 2017 Oct;3(4-5):311-312. doi: 10.1016/j.euf.2017.09.004.
Epub  2017 Sep 15.

Male Ageing or "Mencession": Let's Try to Reclaim the Myth of the Strongest Sex.

Mirone V(1), Verze P(2), Califano G(2), La Rocca R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, School of Medicine and Surgery, University of Naples 
Federico II, Naples, Italy. Electronic address: mirone@unina.it.
(2)Department of Urology, School of Medicine and Surgery, University of Naples 
Federico II, Naples, Italy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euf.2017.09.004
PMID: 28927727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2017 Nov 4;493(1):34-39. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2017.09.082. Epub 2017 Sep 18.

Idh2 deficiency accelerates renal dysfunction in aged mice.

Lee SJ(1), Cha H(1), Lee S(1), Kim H(1), Ku HJ(1), Kim SH(1), Park JH(2), Lee 
JH(2), Park KM(3), Park JW(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, BK21 Plus KNU Creative BioResearch Group, College of 
Natural Sciences, Kyungpook National University, Taegu, South Korea.
(2)Department of Food and Biotechnology, Korea University, Sejong, South Korea.
(3)Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Kyungpook National University, 
Taegu, South Korea.
(4)School of Life Sciences, BK21 Plus KNU Creative BioResearch Group, College of 
Natural Sciences, Kyungpook National University, Taegu, South Korea. Electronic 
address: parkjw@knu.ac.kr.

The free radical or oxidative stress theory of aging postulates that senescence 
is due to an accumulation of cellular oxidative damage, caused largely by 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) that are produced as by-products of normal 
metabolic processes in mitochondria. The oxidative stress may arise as a result 
of either increased ROS production or decreased ability to detoxify ROS. The 
availability of the mitochondrial NADPH pool is critical for the maintenance of 
the mitochondrial antioxidant system. The major enzyme responsible for 
generating mitochondrial NADPH is mitochondrial NADP+-dependent isocitrate 
dehydrogenase (IDH2). Depletion of IDH2 in mice (idh2-/-) shortens life span and 
accelerates the degeneration of multiple age-sensitive traits, such as hair 
grayness, skin pathology, and eye pathology. Among the various internal organs 
tested in this study, IDH2 depletion-induced acceleration of senescence was 
uniquely observed in the kidney. Renal function and structure were greatly 
deteriorated in 24-month-old idh2-/- mice compared with wild-type. In addition, 
disruption of redox status, which promotes oxidative damage and apoptosis, was 
more pronounced in idh2-/- mice. These data support a significant role for 
increased oxidative stress as a result of compromised mitochondrial antioxidant 
defenses in modulating life span in mice, and thus support the oxidative stress 
theory of aging.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2017.09.082
PMID: 28928092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Front Neurosci. 2017 Sep 4;11:451. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2017.00451.
eCollection  2017.

Axonal Degeneration during Aging and Its Functional Role in Neurodegenerative 
Disorders.

Salvadores N(1)(2), Sanhueza M(1)(2), Manque P(1), Court FA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Integrative Biology, Faculty of Sciences, Universidad 
MayorSantiago, Chile.
(2)Fondap Geroscience Center for Brain Health and MetabolismSantiago, Chile.

Aging constitutes the main risk factor for the development of neurodegenerative 
diseases. This represents a major health issue worldwide that is only expected 
to escalate due to the ever-increasing life expectancy of the population. 
Interestingly, axonal degeneration, which occurs at early stages of 
neurodegenerative disorders (ND) such as Alzheimer's disease, Amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis, and Parkinson's disease, also takes place as a consequence of 
normal aging. Moreover, the alteration of several cellular processes such as 
proteostasis, response to cellular stress and mitochondrial homeostasis, which 
have been described to occur in the aging brain, can also contribute to axonal 
pathology. Compelling evidence indicate that the degeneration of axons precedes 
clinical symptoms in NDs and occurs before cell body loss, constituting an early 
event in the pathological process and providing a potential therapeutic target 
to treat neurodegeneration before neuronal cell death. Although, normal aging 
and the development of neurodegeneration are two processes that are closely 
linked, the molecular basis of the switch that triggers the transition from 
healthy aging to neurodegeneration remains unrevealed. In this review we discuss 
the potential role of axonal degeneration in this transition and provide a 
detailed overview of the literature and current advances in the molecular 
understanding of the cellular changes that occur during aging that promote 
axonal degeneration and then discuss this in the context of ND.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2017.00451
PMCID: PMC5591337
PMID: 28928628


253. Oxf Med Case Reports. 2017 Sep 4;2017(9):omx052. doi: 10.1093/omcr/omx052. 
eCollection 2017 Sep.

Ablation of a left-sided accessory pathway with near-zero fluoroscopy in a 
9-year-old boy.

Cismaru G(1), Muresan L(1), Puiu M(1), Rosu R(1), Gusetu G(1), Pop D(1), 
Zdrenghea D(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiology-Rehabilitation, 5th Department of Internal Medicine, 'Iuliu 
Hatieganu' University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Cluj-Napoca, Romania.

Catheter ablation of cardiac arrhythmias in pediatric population is associated 
with the risk of ionizing radiation on the child. Due to a greater radiation 
sensitivity in children and a longer life expectancy newer techniques try to 
reduce the radiation exposure. A new technique for zero-fluoroscopy catheter 
ablation is described in a 9-year-old boy who had a left-sided concealed 
accessory pathway. The NAVX Ensite 3D mapping system permits catheter placement 
inside the venous system and movement inside the heart chambers without the use 
of X-rays. The success rate is similar to the techniques requiring X-rays.

DOI: 10.1093/omcr/omx052
PMCID: PMC5597910
PMID: 28928979


254. Cureus. 2017 Jul 10;9(7):e1453. doi: 10.7759/cureus.1453.

Risk of Death from Prostate Cancer with and without Definitive Local Therapy 
when Gleason Pattern 5 is Present: A Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results 
Analysis.

Frandsen J(1), Orton A(1), Shrieve D(1), Tward J(1).

Author information:
(1)Radiation Oncology, University of Utah Huntsman Cancer Hospital.

Purpose The purpose is to evaluate the patterns of care and comparative 
effectiveness for cause-specific and overall survival of definitive local 
treatments versus conservatively managed men with a primary or secondary Gleason 
pattern of 5. Methods and materials Patients diagnosed from 2004 to 2012 with a 
primary or secondary Gleason pattern of 5 N0M0 prostate cancer were extracted 
from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database. 
Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression analyses were used to estimate the survival. 
Results We identified 20,560 men. Median age and follow-up were 68 years and 
4.33 years, respectively. At eight years, cause-specific survival (CSS) was 
86.6% and 57.4% of those receiving and not receiving definitive local 
treatments, respectively. For CSS multivariate analysis, the following were 
significant: age, race, insurance status, total Gleason Score, T-stage, and type 
or omission of definitive local treatments. Compared to prostatectomy alone, men 
not undergoing definitive local treatments had the highest risk of death (HR: 
6.07; 95% CI: 5.19-7.10). Those undergoing external beam radiotherapy alone (HR: 
2.11; 95% CI: 1.80-2.48) were also at elevated risk of death. The number needed 
to treat (NNT) to prevent a prostate cancer death at eight years was three 
persons. Conclusions Death from prostate cancer with a primary or secondary 
Gleason pattern of 5 histology without definitive local treatment is high. In 
this hypothesis-generating study, we found that men with a limited life 
expectancy (less than eight years) and non-metastatic Gleason pattern of 5 
disease may benefit from definitive local treatments. Given the high mortality 
in men with a Gleason pattern of 5, combined modality local therapies and 
consideration of chemotherapies may be warranted.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.1453
PMCID: PMC5590810
PMID: 28929037

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared financial 
relationships, which are detailed in the next section.


255. World J Surg. 2018 Feb;42(2):431-436. doi: 10.1007/s00268-017-4248-4.

Recombinant Parathyroid Hormone Versus Usual Care: Do the Outcomes Justify the 
Cost?

Chomsky-Higgins KH(1), Rochefort HM(2), Seib CD(2), Gosnell JE(2), Shen WT(2), 
Duh QY(2), Suh I(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Section of Endocrine Surgery, University of 
California, San Francisco, 1600 Divisadero Street, Box 1674, San Francisco, CA, 
94143, USA. kate.chomsky-higgins@ucsf.edu.
(2)Department of Surgery, Section of Endocrine Surgery, University of 
California, San Francisco, 1600 Divisadero Street, Box 1674, San Francisco, CA, 
94143, USA.

BACKGROUND: Hypoparathyroidism is a potential outcome of anterior neck surgery. 
Commonly it is managed by calcium and vitamin D supplementation in large doses, 
with attendant side effects. A recombinant human parathyroid hormone (rhPTH) is 
now available in the USA, offering a potentially more effective treatment. No 
cost-effectiveness model investigating this new medication versus standard care 
has yet been published.
METHODS: We constructed a decision analytic model comparing usual care versus 
rhPTH treatment for postsurgical hypoparathyroidism. Threshold and sensitivity 
analyses on key parameters were conducted to assess robustness of the model. 
Costs and health outcomes were represented in US dollars and quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: The rhPTH strategy was both more costly and more effective than the 
usual care (UC) strategy. In the base case, UC cost $37,196 and provided 7.54 
QALYs. The rhPTH strategy cost $777,224 and provided 8.46 QALYs for an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $804,378/QALY. As this was above our 
willingness-to-pay of $100,000, treatment with rhPTH was not considered 
cost-effective. The model was robust to all other parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the first formal cost-effectiveness 
analysis of rhPTH in comparison with UC. Our model suggests that although the 
new treatment is slightly more effective than UC, the modest gain in quality of 
life for patients who are reasonably well-managed by UC does not justify the 
cost. However, consideration must be given to rhPTH for patients who have failed 
UC, as the expenditure may be justified in that context.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-017-4248-4
PMID: 28929381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Medicines (Basel). 2016 Jan 21;3(1):2. doi: 10.3390/medicines3010002.

The Changing Landscape of Breast Cancer: How Biology Drives Therapy.

Friend S(1), Royce M(2).

Author information:
(1)Hematology Oncology, University of New Mexico Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
University of New Mexico, 1201 Camino de Salud N.E., MSC 07-4025, Albuquerque, 
NM 87131, USA. scfriend@salud.unm.edu.
(2)New Mexico Cancer Care Alliance, UNM Comprehensive Cancer Center 
Multidisciplinary Breast Cancer Clinic &Program, University of New Mexico, 1201 
Camino de Salud N.E., MSC 07-4025, Albuquerque, NM 87131, USA. 
mroyce@salud.unm.edu.

Breast cancer is the most prevalent life-threatening cancer in women. Optimizing 
therapy to increase cure rates in early stage disease, and improving life 
expectancy and palliation for advanced stages, are goals driving major areas of 
research. The armamentarium of targeted treatments for breast cancer is ever 
expanding as understanding of breast cancer biology deepens. A revolution in our 
treatment was heralded a decade ago by the introduction of trastuzumab for human 
epidermal receptor-2 positive (HER2+) disease resulting in remarkable reductions 
in recurrence and improvements in overall survival (OS). Advances continue to be 
made in other breast cancer subtypes targeting key activating pathways for 
therapeutic development. However, for these other targeted agents, improvement 
in OS has been elusive. This article focuses on the development of targeted 
therapy in breast cancer focusing primarily on the last 5 years, to illustrate 
that as we understand the complex pathways allowing the dysregulated cell to 
become malignant, it also propels us closer towards the promise of precision and 
personalized medicine.

DOI: 10.3390/medicines3010002
PMCID: PMC5456232
PMID: 28930112

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


257. Medicines (Basel). 2015 Aug 31;2(3):236-250. doi: 10.3390/medicines2030236.

Right Place, Right Time: Preferences of Women with Ovarian Cancer for Delivery 
of CAM Education.

Ebbert JA(1)(2), Donovan KA(3), Lengacher CA(4), Fabri D(5), Reich R(6), Daley 
E(7), Thompson EL(8), Wenham RM(9).

Author information:
(1)Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute, 12902 Magnolia Drive, Tampa, 
FL 33612, USA. Judith.ebbert@moffitt.org.
(2)University of Florida Health, College of Nursing, 12901 Bruce B. Downs Blvd., 
Tampa, FL 33612 USA. Judith.ebbert@moffitt.org.
(3)Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute, 12902 Magnolia Drive, Tampa, 
FL 33612, USA. kristine.donovan@moffitt.org.
(4)University of Florida Health, College of Nursing, 12901 Bruce B. Downs Blvd., 
Tampa, FL 33612 USA. clengach@health.usf.edu.
(5)Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute, 12902 Magnolia Drive, Tampa, 
FL 33612, USA. donna.fabri@moffitt.org.
(6)Division of Psychology, College of Arts and Sciences, University of South 
Florida Sarasota-Manatee, Tamiami Trail Sarasota, FL 34243, USA. 
rreich@sar.usf.edu.
(7)University of Florida College of Public Health, 13201 Bruce B. Downs Blvd., 
Tampa, FL 33612 USA. edaley@health.usf.edu.
(8)University of Florida College of Public Health, 13201 Bruce B. Downs Blvd., 
Tampa, FL 33612 USA. ethomps1@health.usf.edu.
(9)Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute, 12902 Magnolia Drive, Tampa, 
FL 33612, USA. robert.wenham@moffitt.org.

The purpose of this pilot study was to assess the feasibility of on-site 
complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) education sessions to maximize 
quality of life for women with ovarian cancer. The pilot intervention consisted 
of four weekly sessions, each focusing the techniques and benefits of a 
particular CAM topic (e.g., nutrition, massage, relaxation). Participants were 
recruited from the Center for Women's Oncology at H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center 
from 2010 to 2012. Eligible participants had an ovarian cancer diagnosis with a 
life expectancy of at least 12 months, and were 18 years or older. The 
Gynecologic Oncology research nurse invited women in the outpatient clinic who 
matched the eligibility criteria. The research nurse explained the study and 
provided an informed consent form and return envelope. Because ovarian cancer is 
not only a rare cancer but, also, most patients seen at Moffitt have recurrent 
or advanced disease, many women did not have an adequate ECOG score. Many women 
who consented had rapid changes in health status, with morbidity and mortality 
outpacing recruitment of the 20 needed to proceed with the four education 
sessions. Baseline and follow-up surveys were conducted to assess changes in 
QOL, knowledge, and satisfaction with the intervention. While 27 women consented 
and 24 women completed the baseline survey, only five women participated in the 
intervention. The five women who participated were all white, and at time of 
consenting had a mean age of 60 (SD 9.08) and an average of 102 months (SD 
120.65) since diagnosis, and were all on active treatment, except for one. The 
intervention pilot did not encounter difficulties with regard to recruitment, 
but suffered problems in achieving an adequate number of women to launch the 
on-site sessions because of rapidly changing morbidity and significant 
mortality. The team recognized that a larger-scaled intervention comprised of 
on-site sessions was impractical and compared attendance rates with a more 
convenient format currently underway in the Women's Oncology program at Moffitt. 
While low participation prevented an intervention analysis of scientific merit, 
the study data is informative with regard to barriers, facilitators, and 
alternative methods for sharing useful information to women with advanced 
ovarian cancer. The comparison strongly suggested that CAM education for women 
compromised by the disease and treatment associated with ovarian cancer would 
best be delivered in the convenient-access format that allowed remote access to 
live and recorded discussions of specific topics.

DOI: 10.3390/medicines2030236
PMCID: PMC5456219
PMID: 28930210

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


258. BMC Health Serv Res. 2017 Sep 20;17(1):672. doi: 10.1186/s12913-017-2597-1.

Progress and outcomes of health systems reform in the United Arab Emirates: a 
systematic review.

Koornneef E(1)(2), Robben P(1)(3), Blair I(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(2)Truven Health Analytics, An IBM Company, Michigan, USA.
(3)Dutch Healthcare Inspectorate, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(4)Institute of Public Health, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, United 
Arab Emirates University, PO Box 17666, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates. 
iain_blair@uaeu.ac.ae.

BACKGROUND: The United Arab Emirates (UAE) government aspires to build a world 
class health system to improve the quality of healthcare and the health outcomes 
for its population. To achieve this it has implemented extensive health system 
reforms in the past 10 years. The nature, extent and success of these reforms 
has not recently been comprehensively reviewed. In this paper we review the 
progress and outcomes of health systems reform in the UAE.
METHODS: We searched relevant databases and other sources to identify published 
and unpublished studies and other data available between 01 January 2002 and 31 
March 2016. Eligible studies were appraised and data were descriptively and 
narratively synthesized.
RESULTS: Seventeen studies were included covering the following themes: the UAE 
health system, population health, the burden of disease, healthcare financing, 
healthcare workforce and the impact of reforms. Few, if any, studies 
prospectively set out to define and measure outcomes. A central part of the 
reforms has been the introduction of mandatory private health insurance, the 
development of the private sector and the separation of planning and regulatory 
responsibilities from provider functions. The review confirmed the commitment of 
the UAE to build a world class health system but amongst researchers and 
commentators opinion is divided on whether the reforms have been successful 
although patient satisfaction with services appears high and there are some 
positive indications including increasing coverage of hospital accreditation. 
The UAE has a rapidly growing population with a unique age and sex distribution, 
there have been notable successes in improving child and maternal mortality and 
extending life expectancy but there are high levels of chronic diseases. The 
relevance of the reforms for public health and their impact on the determinants 
of chronic diseases have been questioned.
CONCLUSIONS: From the existing research literature it is not possible to 
conclude whether UAE health system reforms are working. We recommend that 
research should continue in this area but that research questions should be more 
clearly defined, focusing whenever possible on outcomes rather than processes.

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-017-2597-1
PMCID: PMC5607589
PMID: 28931388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. 
COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing interests. 
All authors have completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form at 
http://www.icmje.org/downloads/coi_disclosure.zip. The authors declared no 
financial relationships with any organizations that might have an interest in 
the submitted work in the previous 3 years and no other relationships or 
activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work. PUBLISHER’S 
NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


259. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2017 Sep 20;9(1):75. doi: 10.1186/s13195-017-0302-6.

Personalized predictive modeling for patients with Alzheimer's disease using an 
extension of Sullivan's life table model.

Stallard E(1), Kinosian B(2)(3), Stern Y(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Biodemography of Aging Research Unit, Social Science Research Institute, Duke 
University, 2024 West Main Street, Room A102H, Durham, NC, 27708-0408, USA.
(2)Geriatrics and Extended Care Data Analysis Center, Philadelphia VA Medical 
Center, 3900 Woodland Avenue, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, 3615 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, PA, 19104-6021, USA.
(4)Cognitive Neuroscience Division, Department of Neurology, Columbia University 
College of Physicians and Surgeons, 630 West 168th Street, P&S Box 16, New York, 
NY, 10032-3702, USA. ys11@columbia.edu.
(5)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Columbia University Medical Center, 630 West 168th Street, P&S Box 16, New York, 
NY, 10032-3702, USA. ys11@columbia.edu.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression varies substantially among 
patients, hindering calculation of residual total life expectancy (TLE) and its 
decomposition into disability-free life expectancy (DFLE) and disabled life 
expectancy (DLE) for individual patients with AD. The objective of the present 
study was to assess the accuracy of a new synthesis of Sullivan's life table 
(SLT) and longitudinal Grade of Membership (L-GoM) models that estimates 
individualized TLEs, DFLEs, and DLEs for patients with AD. If sufficiently 
accurate, such information could enhance the quality of important decisions in 
AD treatment and patient care.
METHODS: We estimated a new SLT/L-GoM model of the natural history of AD over 
10 years in the Predictors 2 Study cohort: N = 229 with 6 fixed and 73 
time-varying covariates over 21 examinations covering 11 measurement domains 
including cognitive, functional, behavioral, psychiatric, and other 
symptoms/signs. Total remaining life expectancy was censored at 10 years. 
Disability was defined as need for full-time care (FTC), the outcome most 
strongly associated with AD progression. All parameters were estimated via 
weighted maximum likelihood using data-dependent weights designed to ensure that 
the estimates of the prognostic subtypes were of high quality. Goodness of fit 
was tested/confirmed for survival and FTC disability for five relatively 
homogeneous subgroups defined to cover the range of patient outcomes over the 21 
examinations.
RESULTS: The substantial heterogeneity in initial patient presentation and AD 
progression was captured using three clinically meaningful prognostic subtypes 
and one terminal subtype exhibiting highly differentiated symptom severity on 7 
of the 11 measurement domains. Comparisons of the observed and estimated 
survival and FTC disability probabilities demonstrated that the estimates were 
accurate for all five subgroups, supporting their use in AD life expectancy 
calculations. Mean 10-year TLE differed widely across subgroups: range 
3.6-8.0 years, average 6.1 years. Mean 10-year DFLE differed relatively even 
more widely across subgroups: range 1.2-6.5 years, average 4.0 years. Mean 
10-year DLE was relatively much closer: range 1.5-2.3 years, average 2.1 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The SLT/L-GoM model yields accurate maximum likelihood estimates of 
TLE, DFLE, and DLE for patients with AD; it provides a realistic, comprehensive 
modeling framework for endpoint and resource use/cost calculations.

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-017-0302-6
PMCID: PMC5607490
PMID: 28931428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The 
present study was conducted as part of protocol 7258R, which was approved by the 
New York State Psychiatric Institute Institutional Review Board, 1051 Riverside 
Drive, Box 10, New York, NY 10032, USA; email: irbmail@nyspi.columbia.edu. 
Informed consent was obtained from all participants in the study. CONSENT FOR 
PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they 
have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral 
with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


260. Sci Total Environ. 2018 Feb 15;615:1527-1534. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2017.09.132. Epub 2017 Sep 18.

New "loss of happy life expectancy" indicator and its use in risk comparison 
after Fukushima disaster.

Murakami M(1), Tsubokura M(2), Ono K(3), Maeda M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Risk Communication, Fukushima Medical University School 
of Medicine, 1 Hikarigaoka, Fukushima, Fukushima, 960-1295, Japan. Electronic 
address: michio@fmu.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Radiation Protection, Minamisoma Municipal General Hospital, 
2-54-6 Takami, Haramachi, Minamisoma, Fukushima 975-0033, Japan.
(3)Research Institute of Science for Safety and Sustainability, National 
Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), 16-1, Onogawa, 
Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8569, Japan.
(4)Department of Disaster Psychiatry, Fukushima Medical University School of 
Medicine, 1 Hikarigaoka, Fukushima, Fukushima 960-1295, Japan.

To assess the effects of policy measures taken to ensure health and promote 
well-being, we developed a novel indicator, "loss of happy life expectancy" 
(LHpLE), under the concept that an objective of life is maximization of lifelong 
happiness, by using objective survival probabilities and a simple question 
regarding emotional happiness: "Did you experience a feeling of happiness 
yesterday [yes/no]?" We measured the emotional happiness of 4990 Japanese 
respondents through a questionnaire. We then used LHpLE to compare risks after 
the 2011 Fukushima disaster. LHpLE due to psychological distress was estimated 
from a decline of emotional happiness, whereas that due to radiation exposure 
was assessed from shortened life expectancy caused by additional cancer 
mortality. LHpLE values due to psychological distress in evacuees were 
approximately 1 to >2 orders of magnitude higher than those due to cancer 
mortality caused by actual radiation exposure, highlighting the importance of 
measures to minimize distress following public health emergencies. LHpLE could 
be used for integrated risk comparison among different types of harms and 
therefore in government policy-making.

Copyright © 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2017.09.132
PMID: 28931457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Lancet Neurol. 2017 Nov;16(11):877-897. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(17)30299-5.
Epub  2017 Sep 17.

Global, regional, and national burden of neurological disorders during 
1990-2015: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2015.

GBD 2015 Neurological Disorders Collaborator Group.

Collaborators: Feigin VL, Abajobir AA, Abate KH, Abd-Allah F, Abdulle AM, Abera 
SF, Abyu GY, Ahmed MB, Aichour AN, Aichour I, Aichour MTE, Akinyemi RO, Alabed 
S, Al-Raddadi R, Alvis-Guzman N, Amare AT, Ansari H, Anwari P, Ärnlöv J, Asayesh 
H, Asgedom SW, Atey TM, Avila-Burgos L, Frinel E, Avokpaho GA, Azarpazhooh MR, 
Barac A, Barboza M, Barker-Collo SL, Bärnighausen T, Bedi N, Beghi E, Bennett 
DA, Bensenor IM, Berhane A, Betsu BD, Bhaumik S, Birlik SM, Biryukov S, Boneya 
DJ, Bulto LNB, Carabin H, Casey D, Castañeda-Orjuela CA, Catalá-López F, Chen H, 
Chitheer AA, Chowdhury R, Christensen H, Dandona L, Dandona R, de Veber GA, 
Dharmaratne SD, Do HP, Dokova K, Dorsey ER, Ellenbogen RG, Eskandarieh S, Farvid 
MS, Fereshtehnejad SM, Fischer F, Foreman KJ, Geleijnse JM, Gillum RF, Giussani 
G, Goldberg EM, Gona PN, Goulart AC, Gugnani HC, Gupta R, Hachinski V, Gupta R, 
Hamadeh RR, Hambisa M, Hankey GJ, Hareri HA, Havmoeller R, Hay SI, Heydarpour P, 
Hotez PJ, Jakovljevic MMB, Javanbakht M, Jeemon P, Jonas JB, Kalkonde Y, Kandel 
A, Karch A, Kasaeian A, Kastor A, Keiyoro PN, Khader YS, Khalil IA, Khan EA, 
Khang YH, Tawfih A, Khoja A, Khubchandani J, Kulkarni C, Kim D, Kim YJ, Kivimaki 
M, Kokubo Y, Kosen S, Kravchenko M, Krishnamurthi RV, Defo BK, Kumar GA, Kumar 
R, Kyu HH, Larsson A, Lavados PM, Li Y, Liang X, Liben ML, Lo WD, Logroscino G, 
Lotufo PA, Loy CT, Mackay MT, El Razek HMA, El Razek MMA, Majeed A, Malekzadeh 
R, Manhertz T, Mantovani LG, Massano J, Mazidi M, McAlinden C, Mehata S, 
Mehndiratta MM, Memish ZA, Mendoza W, Mengistie MA, Mensah GA, Meretoja A, 
Mezgebe HB, Miller TR, Mishra SR, Ibrahim NM, Mohammadi A, Mohammed KE, Mohammed 
S, Mokdad AH, Moradi-Lakeh M, Velasquez IM, Musa KI, Naghavi M, Ngunjiri JW, 
Nguyen CT, Nguyen G, Le Nguyen Q, Nguyen TH, Nichols E, Ningrum DNA, Nong VM, 
Norrving B, Noubiap JJN, Ogbo FA, Owolabi MO, Pandian JD, Parmar PG, Pereira DM, 
Petzold M, Phillips MR, Piradov MA, Poulton RG, Pourmalek F, Qorbani M, Rafay A, 
Rahman M, Rahman MH, Rai RK, Rajsic S, Ranta A, Rawaf S, Renzaho AMN, Rezai MS, 
Roth GA, Roshandel G, Rubagotti E, Sachdev P, Safiri S, Sahathevan R, Sahraian 
MA, Samy AM, Santalucia P, Santos IS, Sartorius B, Satpathy M, Sawhney M, Saylan 
MI, Sepanlou SG, Shaikh MA, Shakir R, Shamsizadeh M, Sheth KN, Shigematsu M, 
Shoman H, Silva DAS, Smith M, Sobngwi E, Sposato LA, Stanaway JD, Stein DJ, 
Steiner TJ, Stovner LJ, Abdulkader RS, Ei Szoeke C, Tabarés-Seisdedos R, Tanne 
D, Theadom AM, Thrift AG, Tirschwell DL, Topor-Madry R, Tran BX, Truelsen T, 
Tuem KB, Ukwaja KN, Uthman OA, Varakin YY, Vasankari T, Venketasubramanian N, 
Vlassov VV, Wadilo F, Wakayo T, Wallin MT, Weiderpass E, Westerman R, Wijeratne 
T, Wiysonge CS, Woldu MA, Wolfe CDA, Xavier D, Xu G, Yano Y, Yimam HH, Yonemoto 
N, Yu C, Zaidi Z, El Sayed Zaki M, Zunt JR, Murray CJL, Vos T.

Comment in
    Lancet Neurol. 2017 Nov;16(11):858-859.
    Lancet Neurol. 2017 Nov;16(11):857.
    Front Neurol. 2018 Mar 29;9:201.

BACKGROUND: Comparable data on the global and country-specific burden of 
neurological disorders and their trends are crucial for health-care planning and 
resource allocation. The Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors 
(GBD) Study provides such information but does not routinely aggregate results 
that are of interest to clinicians specialising in neurological conditions. In 
this systematic analysis, we quantified the global disease burden due to 
neurological disorders in 2015 and its relationship with country development 
level.
METHODS: We estimated global and country-specific prevalence, mortality, 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs), years of life lost (YLLs), and years 
lived with disability (YLDs) for various neurological disorders that in the GBD 
classification have been previously spread across multiple disease groupings. 
The more inclusive grouping of neurological disorders included stroke, 
meningitis, encephalitis, tetanus, Alzheimer's disease and other dementias, 
Parkinson's disease, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, motor neuron disease, 
migraine, tension-type headache, medication overuse headache, brain and nervous 
system cancers, and a residual category of other neurological disorders. We also 
analysed results based on the Socio-demographic Index (SDI), a compound measure 
of income per capita, education, and fertility, to identify patterns associated 
with development and how countries fare against expected outcomes relative to 
their level of development.
FINDINGS: Neurological disorders ranked as the leading cause group of DALYs in 
2015 (250·7 [95% uncertainty interval (UI) 229·1 to 274·7] million, comprising 
10·2% of global DALYs) and the second-leading cause group of deaths (9·4 [9·1 to 
9·7] million], comprising 16·8% of global deaths). The most prevalent 
neurological disorders were tension-type headache (1505·9 [UI 1337·3 to 1681·6 
million cases]), migraine (958·8 [872·1 to 1055·6] million), medication overuse 
headache (58·5 [50·8 to 67·4 million]), and Alzheimer's disease and other 
dementias (46·0 [40·2 to 52·7 million]). Between 1990 and 2015, the number of 
deaths from neurological disorders increased by 36·7%, and the number of DALYs 
by 7·4%. These increases occurred despite decreases in age-standardised rates of 
death and DALYs of 26·1% and 29·7%, respectively; stroke and communicable 
neurological disorders were responsible for most of these decreases. 
Communicable neurological disorders were the largest cause of DALYs in countries 
with low SDI. Stroke rates were highest at middle levels of SDI and lowest at 
the highest SDI. Most of the changes in DALY rates of neurological disorders 
with development were driven by changes in YLLs.
INTERPRETATION: Neurological disorders are an important cause of disability and 
death worldwide. Globally, the burden of neurological disorders has increased 
substantially over the past 25 years because of expanding population numbers and 
ageing, despite substantial decreases in mortality rates from stroke and 
communicable neurological disorders. The number of patients who will need care 
by clinicians with expertise in neurological conditions will continue to grow in 
coming decades. Policy makers and health-care providers should be aware of these 
trends to provide adequate services.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2017 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC-BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(17)30299-5
PMCID: PMC5641502
PMID: 28931491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Biotechnol Biofuels. 2017 Sep 16;10:221. doi: 10.1186/s13068-017-0911-0. 
eCollection 2017.

AtCesA8-driven OsSUS3 expression leads to largely enhanced biomass 
saccharification and lodging resistance by distinctively altering lignocellulose 
features in rice.

Fan C(1)(2)(3), Feng S(1)(2)(3), Huang J(1)(2)(3), Wang Y(1)(2)(3), Wu 
L(1)(2)(3), Li X(1)(2)(3), Wang L(1)(2)(3), Tu Y(1)(2)(3), Xia T(1)(2)(4), Li 
J(1)(3)(5), Cai X(6), Peng L(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Biomass and Bioenergy Research Centre, Huazhong Agricultural University, 
Wuhan, China.
(2)National Key Laboratory of Crop Genetic Improvement, Huazhong Agricultural 
University, Wuhan, China.
(3)College of Plant Science and Technology, Huazhong Agricultural University, 
Wuhan, China.
(4)College of Life Science and Technology, Huazhong Agricultural University, 
Wuhan, China.
(5)HaiKou Experimental Station, Chinese Academy of Tropical Agricultural 
Sciences, Haikou, 570102 China.
(6)Department of Plant Science, North Dakota State University, Fargo, ND USA.

BACKGROUND: Biomass recalcitrance and plant lodging are two complex traits that 
tightly associate with plant cell wall structure and features. Although genetic 
modification of plant cell walls can potentially reduce recalcitrance for 
enhancing biomass saccharification, it remains a challenge to maintain a normal 
growth with enhanced biomass yield and lodging resistance in transgenic plants. 
Sucrose synthase (SUS) is a key enzyme to regulate carbon partitioning by 
providing UDP-glucose as substrate for cellulose and other polysaccharide 
biosynthesis. Although SUS transgenic plants have reportedly exhibited 
improvement on the cellulose and starch based traits, little is yet reported 
about SUS impacts on both biomass saccharification and lodging resistance. In 
this study, we selected the transgenic rice plants that expressed OsSUS3 genes 
when driven by the AtCesA8 promoter specific for promoting secondary cell wall 
cellulose synthesis in Arabidopsis. We examined biomass saccharification and 
lodging resistance in the transgenic plants and detected their cell wall 
structures and wall polymer features.
RESULTS: During two-year field experiments, the selected AtCesA8::SUS3 
transgenic plants maintained a normal growth with slightly increased biomass 
yields. The four independent transgenic lines exhibited much higher biomass 
enzymatic saccharification and bioethanol production under chemical 
pretreatments at P < 0.01 levels, compared with the controls of rice cultivar 
and empty vector transgenic line. Notably, all transgenic lines showed a 
consistently enhanced lodging resistance with the increasing extension and 
pushing forces. Correlation analysis suggested that the reduced cellulose 
crystallinity was a major factor for largely enhanced biomass saccharification 
and lodging resistance in transgenic rice plants. In addition, the cell wall 
thickenings with the increased cellulose and hemicelluloses levels should also 
contribute to plant lodging resistance. Hence, this study has proposed a 
mechanistic model that shows how OsSUS3 regulates cellulose and hemicelluloses 
biosyntheses resulting in reduced cellulose crystallinity and increased wall 
thickness, thereby leading to large improvements of both biomass 
saccharification and lodging resistance in transgenic rice plants.
CONCLUSIONS: This study has demonstrated that the AtCesA8::SUS3 transgenic rice 
plants exhibited largely improved biomass saccharification and lodging 
resistance by reducing cellulose crystallinity and increasing cell wall 
thickness. It also suggests a powerful genetic approach for cell wall 
modification in bioenergy crops.

DOI: 10.1186/s13068-017-0911-0
PMCID: PMC5603028
PMID: 28932262


263. Eur J Health Econ. 2018 Jul;19(6):871-880. doi: 10.1007/s10198-017-0929-z.
Epub  2017 Sep 21.

