this technique is limited by the concerns on the potential morbidity, 
particularly the longer time required to perform the operation and the 
possibility of deep sternal wound infection in case of bilateral internal 
thoracic artery harvesting due to the decreased blood supply to the sternum and 
surrounding tissues.The review of the recent literature indicates that the use 
of bilateral internal thoracic arteries in very elderly patients should not be 
considered routinely. It seems reasonable to avoid it in octogenarians in the 
presence of well-known predictors of sternal complications such as diabetes, 
morbid obesity, and severe chronic lung disease.There is also still controversy 
about the superiority of the radial artery over the saphenous vein graft as a 
second or third conduit for surgical myocardial revascularization, although the 
majority of recent studies seem to support more liberal use of the radial artery 
as second arterial conduit in the elderly. Although a clinical benefit of 
arterial graft revascularization cannot be formally excluded for elderly 
patients, the increased complexity of this technique suggests that careful 
clinical judgment is necessary to select grafts for individual patients.

DOI: 10.1536/ihj.16-468
PMID: 28966319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Aging Dis. 2017 Oct 1;8(5):628-642. doi: 10.14336/AD.2017.0103. eCollection
2017  Oct.

The Biology of Aging and Cancer: A Brief Overview of Shared and Divergent 
Molecular Hallmarks.

Aunan JR(1)(2), Cho WC(3), Søreide K(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)1Gastrointestinal Translational Research Unit, Molecular Lab, Stavanger 
University Hospital, Stavanger, Norway.
(2)2Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, Stavanger University Hospital, 
Stavanger, Norway.
(3)3Department of Clinical Oncology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Kowloon, Hong 
Kong.
(4)4Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.

Aging is the inevitable time-dependent decline in physiological organ function 
and is a major risk factor for cancer development. Due to advances in health 
care, hygiene control and food availability, life expectancy is increasing and 
the population in most developed countries is shifting to an increasing 
proportion of people at a cancer susceptible age. Mechanisms of aging are also 
found to occur in carcinogenesis, albeit with shared or divergent end-results. 
It is now clear that aging and cancer development either share or diverge in 
several disease mechanisms. Such mechanisms include the role of genomic 
instability, telomere attrition, epigenetic changes, loss of proteostasis, 
decreased nutrient sensing and altered metabolism, but also cellular senescence 
and stem cell function. Cancer cells and aged cells are also fundamentally 
opposite, as cancer cells can be thought of as hyperactive cells with 
advantageous mutations, rapid cell division and increased energy consumption, 
while aged cells are hypoactive with accumulated disadvantageous mutations, cell 
division inability and a decreased ability for energy production and 
consumption. Nonetheless, aging and cancer are tightly interconnected and many 
of the same strategies and drugs may be used to target both, while in other 
cases antagonistic pleiotrophy come into effect and inhibition of one can be the 
activation of the other. Cancer can be considered an aging disease, though the 
shared mechanisms underpinning the two processes remain unclear. Better 
understanding of the shared and divergent pathways of aging and cancer is 
needed.

DOI: 10.14336/AD.2017.0103
PMCID: PMC5614326
PMID: 28966806


386. Aging Dis. 2017 Oct 1;8(5):643-661. doi: 10.14336/AD.2017.0503. eCollection
2017  Oct.

Skin Cancer Epidemics in the Elderly as An Emerging Issue in Geriatric Oncology.

Garcovich S(#)(1), Colloca G(#)(2), Sollena P(1), Andrea B(2), Balducci L(3), 
Cho WC(4), Bernabei R(2), Peris K(1).

Author information:
(1)1Institute of Dermatology, Policlinico A. Gemelli University Hospital, 
Catholic University of the Sacred Heart, Rome, Italy.
(2)2Department of Geriatrics, Policlinico A. Gemelli University Hospital, 
Catholic University of Sacred Heart, Rome, Italy.
(3)3Senior Adult Oncology Program, Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL, USA.
(4)4Department of Clinical Oncology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Kowloon, Hong 
Kong.
(#)Contributed equally

Skin cancer is a worldwide, emerging clinical need in the elderly white 
population, with a steady increase in incidence rates, morbidity and related 
medical costs. Skin cancer is a heterogeneous group of cancers comprising 
cutaneous melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancers (NMSC), which predominantly 
affect elderly patients, aged older than 65 years. Melanoma has distinct 
clinical presentations in the elderly patient and represents a challenging 
question in terms of clinical management. NMSC includes the basal cell carcinoma 
and cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma and presents a wide disease spectrum in 
the elderly population, ranging from low-risk to high-risk tumours, advanced and 
inoperable disease. Treatment decisions for NMSC are preferentially based on 
tumour characteristics, patient's chronological age and physician's preferences 
and operational settings. Several treatment options are available for NMSC, from 
surgery to non-invasive/medical therapies, but patient-based factors, such as 
geriatric comorbidities and patient's life expectancy, do not frequently 
modulate treatment goals. In melanoma, age-related variations in clinical 
management are significant and may frequently lead to under-treatment, limiting 
access to advanced surgical and medical treatments. Clinical decision-making in 
the care of elderly skin cancer patient should ideally implement a geriatric 
assessment, prioritizing patient-based factors and efficiently differentiating 
fit from frail cancer patients. Current clinical practice guidelines for NMSC 
and melanoma only partially address geriatric aspects of cancer care, such as 
frailty, limited life-expectancy, geriatric comorbidities and treatment 
compliance. We review the recent evidence on the scope and problem of skin 
cancer in the elderly population as well as age-related variations in its 
clinical management, highlighting the potential role of a geriatric approach in 
optimizing dermato-oncological care.

DOI: 10.14336/AD.2017.0503
PMCID: PMC5614327
PMID: 28966807

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest None


387. Tumori. 2018 Aug;104(4):252-257. doi: 10.5301/tj.5000661. Epub 2018 May 8.

Advances in geriatric oncology: a multidisciplinary perspective.

Somasundar P(1)(2), Mourey L(3), Lozza L(4), Maggi S(5), Stepney R(6).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Surgical Oncology, Roger Williams Medical Center, Providence, 
Rhode Island - USA.
(2)2 Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts - USA.
(3)3 Department of Medical Oncology, Institut Claudius Regaud, IUCT-O, Toulouse 
- France.
(4)4 Radiotherapy Unit 1, Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan - Italy.
(5)5 President of the EUGS, European Union Geriatric Medicine Society, Vienna - 
Austria.
(6)6 Medical Writer, Charlbury - UK.

A growing majority of people with cancer is composed of older patients. For many 
such patients, independence and quality of life are as important as prolongation 
of survival, emphasizing the need for treatments that are not only effective but 
also well-tolerated. Given age-related decline in organ function and the 
prevalence of comorbidities and polypharmacy, optimum management is complex and 
requires collaboration between oncologists and geriatricians. Advances in 
surgery now include preoperative assessment and, when indicated, prehabilitation 
of the patient, as well as the enhanced recovery after surgery approach. Medical 
treatment is benefiting from the advent of highly effective novel 
immunomodulatory agents that join the tumor-targeted small molecule tyrosine 
kinase inhibitors and monoclonal antibodies in modifying the tolerability of 
therapy. Improved tolerability is evident with radiotherapy (RT). The adoption 
of stereotactic body RT in community oncology practice is increasing the 
proportion of elderly patients with comorbidities who can receive curative 
treatment. A further aspect of precision medicine as it relates to the older 
cancer patient is the tailoring of intervention to the robustness or frailty and 
life expectancy of the individual. Quantitative and validated tools for 
comprehensive geriatric assessment are playing an important role in this 
process.

DOI: 10.5301/tj.5000661
PMID: 28967093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Chemistry. 2017 Nov 21;23(65):16612-16620. doi: 10.1002/chem.201703823. Epub
 2017 Nov 7.

Molecular Engineering of Perylene Imides for High-Performance Lithium Batteries: 
Diels-Alder Extension and Chiral Dimerization.

Li L(1), Hong YJ(1), Chen DY(2), Lin MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Photocatalysis on Energy and Environment, College of 
Chemistry, Fuzhou University, 350116, P. R. China.
(2)College of Materials Science and Engineering, Fuzhou University, 350116, 
P. R. China.

The search for high-performance electrode materials in organic rechargeable 
batteries remains a key challenge. Reported herein is a molecular structural 
modification of perylene imides, a promising class of redox-active electrode 
materials, for improved battery performance. The Diels-Alder extension of 
perylene imides at the lateral position led to the simultaneous incorporation of 
two electron-withdrawing carbonyl groups and extension of the π system, which is 
supposed to favor high specific capacity, operating voltage, and electronic 
conductivity. After the chiral dimerization of the extended species with 
1,2-diaminocyclohexane, it was anticipated that the porosity and coulombic 
interactions with lithium ions would be promoted, which would be beneficial for 
fast reaction kinetics and long cycling life. As expected, in lithium batteries, 
the obtained chiral and π-extended tweezer, which features six imide groups and 
a porous solid-state network of 42.2 % accessible cell volume, was found to 
deliver a reversible capacity of 92.1 mA h g-1 at a charge/discharge rate of 1 C 
within an operating voltage window of 1.60-2.80 V versus Li+ /Li, around 75 and 
50 % of which was maintained after 100 and 300 galvanostatic cycles, 
respectively, much better than those of unmodified species.

© 2017 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/chem.201703823
PMID: 28967155


389. Clin Ther. 2017 Oct;39(10):1986-2005.e5. doi:
10.1016/j.clinthera.2017.08.010.  Epub 2017 Sep 28.

Cost-effectiveness of Pomalidomide, Carfilzomib, and Daratumumab for the 
Treatment of Patients with Heavily Pretreated Relapsed-refractory Multiple 
Myeloma in the United States.

Pelligra CG(1), Parikh K(2), Guo S(3), Chandler C(3), Mouro J(2), Abouzaid S(2), 
Ailawadhi S(4).

Author information:
(1)Evidera, Waltham, Massachusetts. Electronic address: 
christopher.pelligra@evidera.com.
(2)Celgene Corporation, Summit, New Jersey.
(3)Evidera, Waltham, Massachusetts.
(4)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida.

PURPOSE: Pomalidomide plus low-dose dexamethasone (POM-d), daratumumab 
monotherapy (DARA), and carfilzomib monotherapy (CAR) have been approved for use 
in the treatment of patients with heavily pretreated relapsed-refractory 
multiple myeloma (RRMM) in the US, based on findings from the MM-002, SIRIUS, 
and PX-171-003-A1 studies, respectively. The objective of this study was to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of POM-d, DARA, and CAR in this patient population 
from a US payer's perspective.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness model was developed to estimate the cost and 
health outcomes over a 3-year time horizon in 3 health states: progression-free, 
post-progression, and death. The main efficacy data source was a 
matching-adjusted indirect comparison using data from the aforementioned 
studies. Direct medical costs were considered, including: treatment acquisition 
and administration (initial line and subsequent line), pre- and post-medication, 
prophylaxis treatment, adverse event management, and health care resource 
utilization. Sensitivity analyses were conducted. A scenario analysis that 
assumed equal efficacy across all 3 treatments was conducted. Costs, life-years, 
and quality-adjusted life-years were estimated and discounted at 3% per annum.
FINDINGS: Over 3 years, the use of POM-d was associated with similar life-years 
and quality-adjusted life-years gained compared with DARA and CAR (incremental: 
life-years, +0.02 and +0.07, respectively; quality-adjusted life-years, +0.01 
and +0.05), and with a cost less than that of DARA (-$8,919) and similar to that 
of CAR (-$195). Sensitivity analyses illustrated that the results were sensitive 
to progression-free survival, treatment duration, and drug costs. An equal 
efficacy scenario resulted in cost-savings relative to those of both DARA and 
CAR (-$11,779 and -$12,595).
IMPLICATIONS: POM-d may be a cost-effective treatment option relative to DARA or 
CAR in heavily pretreated patients with RRMM in the US.

Copyright © 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2017.08.010
PMID: 28967482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Rev Bras Reumatol Engl Ed. 2017 Nov-Dec;57(6):566-573. doi: 
10.1016/j.rbre.2017.06.002. Epub 2017 Sep 28.

Determinants of quality of life in Paget's disease of bone.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Werner de Castro GR(1), Castro SAF(2), Pereira IA(3), Zimmermann AF(4), Toscano 
MA(5), Neves FS(6), Scottini MA(7), Paupitz J(8), Rosa JSD(9), Buss Z(9), Fröde 
TS(9).

Author information:
(1)Universidade do Sul de Santa Catarina, Faculdade de Medicina, Palhoça, SC, 
Brazil; Hospital Governador Celso Ramos, Unidade de Reumatologia, Florianópolis, 
SC, Brazil. Electronic address: castrogrwc@gmail.com.
(2)Universidade do Vale do Itajaí, Faculdade de Psicologia, Itajaí, SC, Brazil; 
Universidade do Sul de Santa Catarina, Faculdade de Fisioterapia, Tubarão, SC, 
Brazil.
(3)Universidade do Sul de Santa Catarina, Faculdade de Medicina, Palhoça, SC, 
Brazil; Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Hospital Universitário, Unidade 
de Reumatologia, Florianópolis, SC, Brazil.
(4)Hospital Governador Celso Ramos, Unidade de Reumatologia, Florianópolis, SC, 
Brazil; Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Hospital Universitário, Unidade 
de Reumatologia, Florianópolis, SC, Brazil.
(5)Centro Catarinense de Reabilitação, Florianópolis, SC, Brazil.
(6)Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Hospital Universitário, Unidade de 
Reumatologia, Florianópolis, SC, Brazil.
(7)Universidade do Sul de Santa Catarina, Faculdade de Medicina, Palhoça, SC, 
Brazil.
(8)Hospital Governador Celso Ramos, Unidade de Reumatologia, Florianópolis, SC, 
Brazil.
(9)Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Centro de Ciências da Saúde, 
Departamento de Análises Clínicas, Florianópolis, SC, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the parameters associated with quality of life in 
patients with Paget's disease of bone.
METHODS: Patients with Paget's disease of bone were evaluated with SF-36 and 
WHOQOL-bref questionnaires. Patients with other diseases that could cause 
significant impairment of their quality of life were excluded. We searched for 
correlations between the results and: age, time from diagnosis, type of 
involvement, pain related to Paget's disease of bone, limitation to daily 
activities, deformities, bone specific alkaline phosphatase, the extent of 
involvement and treatment.
RESULTS: Fifty patients were included. Results of the SF-36 total score and its 
domains, physical and mental health, were significantly correlated with bone 
pain and deformities. Marital status was significantly correlated with the SF-36 
total score and Mental Health Domain. BAP levels and disease extension were 
significantly correlated to SF-36 Physical Health Domain. After multivariate 
analysis, the only parameters that remained significantly associated with the 
SF-36 total score and to its Mental Health and Physical Health Domains were pain 
and marital status. The WHOQOL-bref total score was significantly associated 
with pain, physical impairment and deformities. WHOQOL-bref Domain 1 (physical) 
score was significantly associated with marital status, pain and deformities, 
while Domain 2 (psychological) score was associated with marital status, 
physical impairment and kind of involvement. After multivariate analysis, the 
presence of pain, deformities, and marital status were significantly associated 
with results of the WHOQOL-bref total score and its Domain 1. WHOQOL-bref domain 
2 results were significantly predicted by pain and marital status.
CONCLUSION: The main disease-related factor associated with SF-36 results in 
Paget's disease of bone patients was bone pain, while bone pain and deformities 
were associated with WHOQOL-bref.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Editora Ltda. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rbre.2017.06.002
PMID: 28967630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Eur J Heart Fail. 2018 Jan;20(1):55-62. doi: 10.1002/ejhf.980. Epub 2017 Oct
2.

Circulating proteins as predictors of incident heart failure in the elderly.

Stenemo M(1), Nowak C(1), Byberg L(2), Sundström J(3)(4), Giedraitis V(5), Lind 
L(6), Ingelsson E(1)(7), Fall T(1), Ärnlöv J(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, Molecular Epidemiology and Science for Life 
Laboratory, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(2)Department of Surgical Sciences, Orthopedics, Uppsala University, Uppsala, 
Sweden.
(3)Uppsala Clinical Research Centre, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(4)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(5)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, Geriatrics, Uppsala 
University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(6)Department of Medical Sciences, Cardiovascular Epidemiology, Uppsala 
University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(7)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Medicine, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(8)School of Health and Social Studies, Dalarna University, Falun, Sweden.
(9)Division of Family Medicine and Primary Care, Department of Neurobiology, 
Care Science and Society, Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge, Sweden.

Comment in
    Eur J Heart Fail. 2018 Jan;20(1):63-66.

AIMS: To identify novel risk markers for incident heart failure using proteomic 
profiling of 80 proteins previously associated with cardiovascular pathology.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Proteomic profiling (proximity extension assay) was 
performed in two community-based prospective cohorts of elderly individuals 
without heart failure at baseline: the Prospective Investigation of the 
Vasculature in Uppsala Seniors [PIVUS, n = 901, median age 70.2 (interquartile 
range 70.0-70.3) years, 80 events]; and the Uppsala Longitudinal Study of Adult 
Men [ULSAM, n = 685, median age 77.8 (interquartile range 76.9-78.1) years, 90 
events]. Twenty-nine proteins were associated with incident heart failure in the 
discovery cohort PIVUS after adjustment for age and sex, and correction for 
multiple testing. Eighteen associations replicated in ULSAM. In pooled analysis 
of both cohorts, higher levels of nine proteins were associated with incident 
heart failure after adjustment for established risk factors: growth 
differentiation factor 15 (GDF-15), T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain 1 
(TIM-1), tumour necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand receptor 2 
(TRAIL-R2), spondin-1 (SPON1), matrix metalloproteinase-12 (MMP-12), follistatin 
(FS), urokinase-type plasminogen activator surface receptor (U-PAR), 
osteoprotegerin (OPG), and suppression of tumorigenicity 2 (ST2). Of these, 
GDF-15, U-PAR, MMP-12, TRAIL-R2, SPON1 and FS were associated with worsened 
echocardiographic left ventricular systolic function at baseline, while only 
TIM-1 was positively associated with worsened diastolic function (P < 0.02 for 
all).
CONCLUSION: Proteomic profiling identified several novel associations between 
proteins involved in apoptosis, inflammation, matrix remodelling, and 
fibrinolysis with incident heart failure in elderly individuals. Our results 
encourage additional studies investigating the underlying mechanisms and the 
clinical utility of our findings.

© 2017 The Authors. European Journal of Heart Failure © 2017 European Society of 
Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1002/ejhf.980
PMID: 28967680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Monaldi Arch Chest Dis. 2017 Jul 18;87(2):843. doi:
10.4081/monaldi.2017.843.

We all want to live longer, but not grow old.

Giampaoli S(1), Viscogliosi G, Vannuzzo D.

Author information:
(1)Italian National Institute of Health. simona.giampaoli@iss.it.

Population ageing represents a "triumph" and a "challenge" for society. The 
increase in life expectancy corresponds to an increase of risk factors and 
age-associated non communicable diseases, with consequent rise in health care 
costs and the burden of healthcare sustainability. Aim of this analysis is to 
describe the prevalence of non communicable diseases, comorbidity and disability 
in non-institutionalized elderly population, aged 75-79 years, examined within 
the Osservatorio Epidemiologico Cardiovascolare/Health Examination Survey. 
Cardiovascular disease is the most frequent occurring in 27% of the examined 
population, followed by diabetes (24%) and chronic kidney disease (21%); 60% of 
examined elderly population suffers of one or more chronic diseases, while 40% 
is in a good health. Ninety-three per cent of the examined population is free of 
disability; cognitive function disorders, assessed by the Folstein's Mini Mental 
State Examination, are recorded in 21% men and 29% women. In the context of 
prevention, there is still much that needs to be done. It is important to 
initiate or maintain preventive actions concerning also this age-group at both 
community and individual level, to promote the cultural notion that a good 
quality of life in advanced age is built day by day starting from one's youth 
through a healthy diet, regular physical activity and non-smoking habit.

DOI: 10.4081/monaldi.2017.843
PMID: 28967717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Monaldi Arch Chest Dis. 2017 Jul 18;87(2):841. doi:
10.4081/monaldi.2017.841.

Testicular and thyroid function as survival predictors in the elderly patient 
candidate to surgery.

Aversa A(1), Fabbri A.

Author information:
(1)Università di Catanzaro Magna Graecia, Dipartimento di Medicina Sperimentale 
e Clinica. aversa@unicz.it.

The relationship between testosterone deficiency (TD) syndrome and surgical 
resilience has a great impact in the modern approach to male elderly patients. 
There is good evidence that low levels of T are a strong marker for 
cardiovascular risk; also, TD is frequently associated with increased 
cardiovascular and all-cause mortality especially in cardiac older frail men. 
Screening for low T should be mandatory in high risk groups candidate to surgery 
including those with diabetes, metabolic syndrome and obesity, even though 
benefits from T-treatment on survival rates are unclear. The low-T3 syndrome, 
named non-thyroidal illness (NTI) that occurs during critical illness refers to 
a syndrome with different faces in both sexes. The acute stress or critical 
illness-induced alterations within the thyroid axis occur in the first days of 
critical illness i.e. post-surgery and are brought about at least in part by the 
concomitant macronutrient deficit. The NTI that occurs in prolonged critically 
ill patients or in post-surgical resilience patients who continue to be 
dependent on intensive medical care for weeks or months, may have an impact on 
surgical outcomes because of frequent occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias. Future 
directions should better routinely investigate circulating thyroid hormones in 
population at risk before surgery after excluding iatrogenic drug interferences, 
and investigate the effect of possible treatments on survival rates after 
surgery.

DOI: 10.4081/monaldi.2017.841
PMID: 28967725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Monaldi Arch Chest Dis. 2017 Jul 18;87(2):846. doi:
10.4081/monaldi.2017.846.

How to define the therapeutic limits.

Cester A(1), Maselli M, Bolzetta F.

Author information:
(1)UOC Geriatria Azienda ULL13, Geriatric Unit. 
alberto.cester@ulss13mirano.ven.it.

With the advance of technological progress and the increase in life expectancy, 
it is nowadays mandatory to define what is the therapeutic limit. Every day each 
physician must take therapeutic decisions on the basis of his scientific 
knowledge, but also of his own conscience and sense of limits. They can not 
avoid to consider the global risk of death, disability and morbidity in more 
advanced age, especially in the field of cardiology and cardiac surgery. In 
these subjects, both fit that frail, is necessary not only an evaluation for 
adequate risk assessment, but also a multidimensional assessment performed with 
advanced tools. The resilience of the subject, ability for which some patients 
considered out of therapy demonstrate the ability to adapt and overcome critical 
phases, must also be weighed. Where and what is the therapeutic limit should be 
evaluated individually with humility, competence and capacity for dialogue with 
other disciplines in a work team that respects the individual professionalism. 
In recent years, much has changed in the cardiology/cardiac surgery approach in 
old people. With the development of less or minimal invasive new techniques, 
there are no more insurmountable limits that can be connected only to the 
chronological age of the patients.

DOI: 10.4081/monaldi.2017.846
PMID: 28967726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Monaldi Arch Chest Dis. 2017 Jul 18;87(2):849. doi:
10.4081/monaldi.2017.849.

Goals of surgery and assessment tools for elderly patients referred for cardiac 
and noncardiac surgery.

Coccia F(1), Rozzini R.

Author information:
(1)Fondazione Poliambulanza, Istituto Ospedaliero. 
renzo.rozzini@poliambulanza.it.

Surgery in elderly patients is associated with the risk of death, complications, 
functional decline and disability. Prior to surgery, therefore, an assessment of 
the health-related priorities, a realistic evaluation of the surgical risks, and 
individualized optimization of the procedural pathway to follow are mandatory.

DOI: 10.4081/monaldi.2017.849
PMID: 28967730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Adv Gerontol. 2017;30(4):563-569.

[Epidemiological, clinical and pathogenic features of stroke in elderly and 
senile age].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Ostapchuk ES(1)(2), Myakotnykh VS(1).

Author information:
(1)Ural state medical University, 3, Repin str., Yekaterinburg, 620028, Russian 
Federation; vmaykotnykh@yandex.ru.
(2)Surgut clinical traumatologic hospital, 20, Nefteyugansk highway, Surgut, 
Khanty-Mansi Autonomous district - Yugra, 626400, Russian Federation.

A comparative investigation of the epidemiological, clinical and pathogenetic 
indices of cerebral stroke in 1 153 representatives of different age was 
conducted. The predominance in the incidence of strokes among women of elderly 
and senile age largely is due to higher life expectancy of women compared to 
men. A significant number of intracerebral blood effusions in elderly and senile 
can arise secondarily, after the ischemic focus formation by the type of «red 
softening». This, to a certain extent, can be explained by the high frequency of 
somatic complications of stroke, disorders of consciousness and high mortality 
among persons older than 60 years compared to younger. Less positive clinical 
outcomes of stroke in elderly and senile age even if you increase the length of 
their stay in hospital may indicate shortcomings in the existing standards of 
diagnostics and treatment with completely different from that of the young, 
combination a background of stroke pathology.

Publisher: Проведено сравнительное изучение эпидемиологических, клинических и 
патогенетических показателей церебрального инсульта у 1 153 представителей 
разного возраста. Преобладание частоты возникновения инсультов у женщин пожилого 
и старческого возраста в значительной степени обусловлено их более высокой 
продолжительностью жизни по сравнению с мужчинами. Значительное число 
внутримозговых, паренхиматозных кровоизлияний у лиц пожилого и старческого может 
возникать вторично, вслед за формированием ишемического очага, по типу «красных 
размягчений». Этим в определенной степени может объясняться высокая частота 
соматических осложнений инсульта, расстройств сознания и высокая летальность лиц 
старше 60 лет по сравнению с более молодыми. Менее позитивные клинические исходы 
инсульта у лиц пожилого и старческого возраста даже при увеличении 
продолжительности их пребывания в стационаре могут свидетельствовать о 
недостатках в имеющихся стандартах диагностики и лечения при совершенно иной, 
чем у молодых, «палитре» фоновой для инсульта патологии.

PMID: 28968032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Adv Gerontol. 2017;30(4):609-617.

[Attitudes toward aging prevention: results of a focus groups study].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Smol'kin AA(1)(2), Zhigareva PA(1), Makarova EA(1), Kiryukhina AA(1), Milova 
EA(3), Khaltourina DA(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration, 
82, Vernaskogo pr., Moscow, 119571, Russian Federation; anton.smolkin@gmail.com.
(2)Moscow school of social and economic sciences, 82, Vernadskogo pr., Moscow, 
119571, Russian Federation.
(3)Regional NGO «Optimum Health», Moscow, Russian Federation.
(4)Federal State Institution «National Research Center for Preventive Medicine» 
of the Ministry of Healthcare of the Russian Federation, 10, Petroverigskiy 
alley, Moscow, 101990, Russian Federation.
(5)Regional Russian NGO «Council for Public Health and Demography», 7, Chasovaya 
str., Moscow, 125319, Russian Federation.

Emerging life extension technologies, as well as some already existing 
biomedical interventions to prevent ageing-related pathological processes, have 
significant potential to alleviate the burden of disease in the aging world. 
However, promoting these technologies requires research in public opinion and 
the use of marketing techniques. We studied social attitudes towards life 
extension technologies and geroprotective medicine use with 3 focus groups. The 
total sample included 18 people with university degrees, 25-70 years old, and 
living in Moscow (Russia). The tested messages were obtained in advance by the 
survey of 30 experts in gerontology. The focus group participants got most 
convinced with the messages that aging prevention is a way to live longer and 
healthier lives. Despite the concerns of the experts, the idea that aging is a 
disease convinces considerable share of the informants when the scientific 
evidences of the connection between aging processes and aging-related health 
damage are provided. Research details in general made the human life extension 
feasibility more convincing. Introducing new agendas into discussion (pensions, 
overpopulation, etc.) turned out to be counterproductive due to new 
counterarguments emerging in the group discussions. The idea of radical life 
extension (i.e. reaching lifespan of 200+ years) was perceived skeptically. Some 
skepticism was attributed to mistrust and disappointment in the modern 
healthcare system in general. Gene therapies were perceived with caution. The 
word «geroprotector» is not well known even to the educated general public.

Publisher: Новые технологии продления жизни и общепринятые терапии, направленные 
на профилактику возрастных патологических процессов, имеют значительный 
потенциал снижения бремени болезней с учетом старения населения мира. Однако 
продвижение этих технологий требует изучения общественного мнения с 
использованием методов маркетинга. Исследовали социальные установки в отношении 
технологий продления жизни и применения лекарств-геропротекторов путем 
проведения трех фокус-групп. Выборка составила 18 человек 25-70 лет с высшим 
образованием, проживающих в Москве. Тестируемые утверждения были предварительно 
получены путем опроса 30 экспертов в области геронтологии. Участникам 
фокус-групп наиболее убедительным показалось утверждение о том, что 
«профилактика старения поможет сохранять здоровье, увеличить активный период 
жизни». Несмотря на сомнения экспертов, тезис о том, что старение это болезнь, 
показался убедительным значительной части информантов в свете предоставленных 
доказательств связи между процессами старения и ухудшением здоровья с возрастом. 
Введение в дискуссию дополнительных тем (пенсии, перенаселение) оказалось 
контрпродуктивным, поскольку приводило к новым контраргументам в групповой 
дискуссии. Идея радикального продления жизни (200 лет и более) воспринималась 
скептически. Скептицизм отчасти объяснялся недоверием и недовольством 
существующей системой здравоохранения. Генные терапии вызывали опасение. Слово 
«геропротекторы» мало знакомо даже образованной публике.

PMID: 28968039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. PLoS One. 2017 Oct 2;12(10):e0185617. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0185617. 
eCollection 2017.

Do "big guys" really die younger? An examination of height and lifespan in 
former professional basketball players.

Lemez S(1), Wattie N(2), Baker J(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Kinesiology and Nutritional Science, California State 
University-Los Angeles, Los Angeles, United States of America.
(2)Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Ontario Institute of Technology, 
Oshawa, Canada.
(3)School of Kinesiology and Health Science, York University, Toronto, Canada.

While factors such as genetics may mediate the relationship between height and 
mortality, evidence suggests that larger body size may be an important risk 
indicator of reduced lifespan longevity in particular. This study critically 
examined this relationship in professional basketball players. We examined 
living and deceased players who have played in the National Basketball 
Association (debut between 1946-2010) and/or the American Basketball Association 
(1967-1976) using descriptive and Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression analyses. The 
cut-off date for death data collection was December 11, 2015. Overall, 3,901 
living and deceased players were identified and had a mean height of 197.78 cm 
(± 9.29, Range: 160.02-231.14), and of those, 787 former players were identified 
as deceased with a mean height of 193.88 cm (± 8.83, Range: 167.6-228.6). 
Descriptive findings indicated that the tallest players (top 5%) died younger 
than the shortest players (bottom 5%) in all but one birth decade (1941-1950). 
Similarly, survival analyses showed a significant relationship between height 
and lifespan longevity when both dichotomizing [χ2 (1) = 13.04, p < .05] and 
trichotomizing [χ2 (2) = 18.05, p < .05] the predictor variable height per birth 
decade, where taller players had a significantly higher mortality risk compared 
to shorter players through median (HR: 1.30, 95% CI: 1.13-1.50, p < .05) and 
trichotomized tertile split (HR: 1.40, 95% CI: 1.18-1.68, p <. 05; tallest 33.3% 
compared to shortest 33.3%) analyses. The uniqueness of examining the 
height-longevity hypothesis in this relatively homogeneous sub-population should 
be considered when interpreting these results. Further understanding of the 
potential risks of early mortality can help generate discourse regarding 
potential at-risk cohorts of the athlete population.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0185617
PMCID: PMC5624604
PMID: 28968418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


399. Sci Total Environ. 2018 Feb 1;613-614:1295-1301. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2017.09.168. Epub 2017 Oct 5.

Synchronizing biological cycles as key to survival under a scenario of global 
change: The Common quail (Coturnix coturnix) strategy.

Nadal J(1), Ponz C(2), Margalida A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, Division of Wildlife, Faculty of Life Sciences 
and Engineering, University of Lleida, 25198 Lleida, Spain. Electronic address: 
jnadal@ca.udl.cat.
(2)Department of Animal Science, Division of Wildlife, Faculty of Life Sciences 
and Engineering, University of Lleida, 25198 Lleida, Spain.
(3)Department of Animal Science, Division of Wildlife, Faculty of Life Sciences 
and Engineering, University of Lleida, 25198 Lleida, Spain; Division of 
Conservation Biology, Institute of Ecology and Evolution, University of Bern, 
3012 Bern, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Sci Total Environ. 2018 Sep 1;635:1556-1557.

Breeding grounds are key areas for sustaining Common quail (Coturnix coturnix) 
populations as this species is characterised by short life expectancy that 
requires high offspring production. Annually, breeding quails make up to three 
breeding attempts in different places. However, the impact of climate warming on 
quail phenology is unknown. Here, we use a long-term study (1961-2014) of 
quail-ringing in Spain and data on variation in rainfall and temperature over 
the past 86years to evaluate how quails have responded to climate change in 
recent years. Our aim was to understand how this species is adapting to new 
farming practices and climate change. Our results suggest that increases in 
temperature and decreases in precipitation modify quail phenology. In hot years, 
an advance in mean arrival dates and stay stages but a delay in departure dates 
was found. However, in rainy years a delay in the mean start of the stay stage 
occurred. In cloudy areas, our findings show that quails advance their stay 
periods in hot and dry years and delay them in cold and rainy years. 
Accordingly, quail movements and breeding attempts are eco-synchronized 
sequentially in cloudy regions. Our results suggest that quails attempt to 
overcome the negative impacts of climate change and agricultural intensification 
by searching for alternative high-quality habitats. This strategy could explain 
how quail populations maintain viable and sustainable populations despite being 
legally harvested with regulated hunting.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2017.09.168
PMID: 28968932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. J Clin Diagn Res. 2017 Aug;11(8):BC19-BC23. doi:
10.7860/JCDR/2017/26595.10456.  Epub 2017 Aug 1.

Hypertension, C Reactive Protein and Metabolic Profile: What is the Scenario in 
Patients Undergoing Arteriography?

Tofano RJ(1), Barbalho SM(2), Bechara MD(3), Quesada K(4), Mendes CG(5), Oshiiwa 
M(6).

Author information:
(1)Cardiologist, Cardiac Surgery Unit and Hemodynamics, Medical School of 
Marilia, Marilia, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Professor, Department of Biochemistry and Cellular Biology, Medical School of 
Marilia, Marilia, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Professor, Department of Food and Technology, School of Marília (FATEC), Sao 
Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Professor, Cardiac Surgery Unit and Hemodynamics, Medical School of Marilia, 
Marilia, Sao Paulo, British Indian Ocean Territory.
(5)Professor, Cardiac Surgery Unit and Hemodynamics, Medical School of Marilia, 
Marilia, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(6)Professor, Department of Statistics, Food and Technology School of Marília 
(FATEC), Sao Paulo, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: High Blood Pressure (HBP), Diabetes Mellitus (DM), Metabolic 
Syndrome (MS) and Cardiovascular Diseases (CVD) are among the main causes of 
death worldwide and HBP is one of the most common chronic health problem 
representing an important and modifiable risk factor for vascular events and 
mortality.
AIM: To study the association among high sensitivity CRP levels, and the 
biochemical, and anthropometric profile in hypertensive and non-hypertensive 
patients who underwent arteriography.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This research was performed at the Haemodynamic 
Laboratory of the University Hospital in the city of Marilia - state of São 
Paulo, Brazil. Ninety-five subjects who underwent arteriography were included. 
Anthropometric (body mass index and waist circumference) and biochemical 
parameters (glycaemia, total cholesterol, HDL-c, LDL-c, triglycerides, and high 
sensitivity C reactive protein), were evaluated. Variables pertaining to blood 
pressure, atherogenic indices, diagnosis of metabolic syndrome and 
catheterization details were collected. Statistical analysis was performed with 
Chi-square test, Fisher, Student t-test and ANOVA complemented by Tukey test.
RESULTS: Our results showed that 78.95% of the patients who underwent 
arteriography were suffering from HBP. Hypertensive individuals had 
significantly higher glycaemia (124.14±45.33 mg/dL) or DM, higher values of 
triglycerides (195.27±74.52 mg/dL), waist circumference (98.52±12.52 cm), body 
mass index (29.99±1.41 kg/m2) and hs-CRP (0.53±0.44 mg/dL). Most of the 
hypertensive patients (93.33%) presented with MS and were related to the 
presence of more severe lesions in the arteries and had passed through more 
invasive procedures like angioplasty and surgery.
CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that blood pressure control is of paramount 
importance to ensure better quality of life and life expectancy as it is 
associated with several risk factors that increase the morbidity and mortality.

DOI: 10.7860/JCDR/2017/26595.10456
PMCID: PMC5620753
PMID: 28969113


401. J Clin Diagn Res. 2017 Aug;11(8):OC25-OC28. doi:
10.7860/JCDR/2017/29071.10477.  Epub 2017 Aug 1.

Does Selection and Management of Patients with Chronic Kidney Disease In 
Government Run and Private Hospitals Differ?

Gowda A(1), Dutt AR(2), Bangera S(3).

Author information:
(1)Assistant Professor, Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Ambedkar 
Medical College, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
(2)Associate Professor, Department of Physiology, Yenepoya Medical College, 
Mangaluru, Karnataka, India.
(3)Assistant Professor, Department of Physiology, Yenepoya Medical College, 
Mangaluru, Karnataka, India.

INTRODUCTION: Globally, incidence of Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) is rapidly 
rising with huge burden on the life expectancy of the patients. Regular 
haemodialysis improves the quality of life in these patients. They get treatment 
at either government run or private sector hospitals. A difference in disease 
pattern, comorbidity, patient management and number of access failures can be 
observed in these set ups.
AIM: The present study was carried out to find out selection, management and 
disease pattern of CKD patients admitted for dialysis in government run and 
private hospital.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A cross-sectional study on patients (18-90 years) 
admitted and undergoing dialysis at government run (N=129) and private hospital 
(N=182) was undertaken in Karnataka, India. Parameters like comorbidity 
(diabetes), number of dialysis per week, number of access failures, and follow 
up visits were compared between these patients. Chi- squared test was used to 
compare the data. All tests were two-tailed and p< 0.05 was considered as 
significant.
RESULTS: More number of younger patients and associated comorbidity, were seen 
in patients admitted in government run hospital (p<0.001), with no gender bias 
in selection of patients for dialysis between the two hospitals. Similarly, 
follow-ups with nephrologist, number of dialysis done per week and 
erythropoietin supplements administered were significantly more among private 
hospital patients (p<0.001). Number of dialysis sessions and mean haemoglobin 
level was less in government run hospital patients, as compared to those in 
private hospital. No statistical difference was seen with access failure in both 
these setups.
CONCLUSION: No bias in management of CKD patient was seen among the two sets of 
hospitals though available facilities seemed to vary.

DOI: 10.7860/JCDR/2017/29071.10477
PMCID: PMC5620821
PMID: 28969180


402. Food Nutr Bull. 2017 Dec;38(4):485-500. doi: 10.1177/0379572117720012. Epub
2017  Oct 2.

Societal Costs of Micronutrient Deficiencies in 6- to 59-month-old Children in 
Pakistan.

Wieser S(1), Brunner B(1), Tzogiou C(1), Plessow R(1), Zimmermann MB(2), 
Farebrother J(2), Soofi S(3), Bhatti Z(3), Ahmed I(3), Bhutta ZA(3).

Author information:
(1)1 Winterthur Institute of Health Economics, Zurich University of Applied 
Sciences, Winterthur, Switzerland.
(2)2 Institute of Food, Nutrition and Health, ETH Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)3 Center of Excellence in Women and Child Health, The Aga Khan University, 
Karachi, Pakistan.

BACKGROUND: In Pakistan, nearly half of children younger than 5 years are 
stunted, and 1 in 3 is underweight. Micronutrient deficiencies, a less visible 
form of undernutrition, are also endemic. They may lead to increased morbidity 
and mortality as well as to impaired cognitive and physical development.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the lifetime costs of micronutrient deficiencies in 
Pakistani children aged between 6 and 59 months.
METHODS: We develop a health economic model of the lifetime health and cost 
consequences of iodine, iron, vitamin A, and zinc deficiencies. We assess 
medical costs, production losses in terms of future incomes lost, and 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs). The estimation is based on large 
population surveys, information on the health consequences of micronutrient 
deficiencies extracted from randomized trials, and a variety of other sources.
RESULTS: Total societal costs amount to US$46 million in medical costs, US$3,222 
million in production losses, and 3.4 million DALYs. Costs are dominated by the 
impaired cognitive development induced by iron-deficiency anemia in 6- to 
23-month-old children and the mortality caused by vitamin A deficiency. Costs 
are substantially higher in poorer households.
CONCLUSIONS: Societal costs amounted to 1.44% of gross domestic product and 
4.45% of DALYs in Pakistan in 2013. These costs hinder the country's 
development. They could be eliminated by improved nutrition of 6- to 
59-month-old children and public health measures. Our results may contribute to 
the design of cost-effective interventions aiming to reduce micronutrient 
deficiencies in early childhood and their lifetime consequences.

DOI: 10.1177/0379572117720012
PMID: 28969507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2017 Oct 2;15(1):190. doi:
10.1186/s12955-017-0763-0.

Subjective life expectancy is a risk factor for perceived health status and 
mortality.

Kim JH(1)(2), Kim JM(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Administration, College of Health Science, Dankook 
University, 201, Manghyang-ro, Dongnam-gu, Cheonan-si, 330-714, Chungnam, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Institute of Health Promotion and Policy, Dankook University, Cheonan, 
Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Health Administration, College of Health Science, Dankook 
University, 201, Manghyang-ro, Dongnam-gu, Cheonan-si, 330-714, Chungnam, 
Republic of Korea. jangmook@gmail.com.
(4)Institute of Health Promotion and Policy, Dankook University, Cheonan, 
Republic of Korea. jangmook@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to investigate the association between 
subjective life expectancy (SLE) and self-rated health and further SLE will 
predict higher risk for mortality.
METHODS: Data from the Korean Longitudinal Study of Aging (KLoSA) from 2006 to 
2014 was assessed using longitudinal data analysis and 10,244 research subjects 
were included at baseline in 2006. Our modeling approach was based on 
generalized estimating equation (GEE) for self-rated health and Cox proportional 
hazards models for mortality.
RESULTS: SLE was significantly associated with mortality (p for trend <0.0001), 
with the following ORs predicting mortality (yes vs. no): HR = 2.133 (p < .0001) 
for 0%, HR = 1.805 (p < .0001) for 10-20%, HR = 1.494 (p 0.002) for 30-40%, 
HR = 1.423 (p 0.002) for 50-60%, HR = 1.157 (p 0.235) for 70-80%, vs. 90-100%. 
In terms of age-specific association with SLE for self-rated health and 
mortality, as subjects got older, self-rated health tended to lean more toward 
poor self-rated health, but as for mortality, the probability of dying increased 
for people who are younger and HR also tended to increase.
CONCLUSION: This study has shown that SLE is associated with self-rated health 
and further is a powerful predictor of mortality after adjusting for self-rated 
health as well as sociodemographic factors and health risk status and behavior 
factors in a representative population of Koreans.

DOI: 10.1186/s12955-017-0763-0
PMCID: PMC5625600
PMID: 28969645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: AUTHORS’ INFORMATION: Not applicable ETHICS 
APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The survey of Korean Longitudinal Study of 
Aging (KLoSA) was approved by Institutional Review Board of the Korea Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention. In addition, as KLoSA database is released 
to the public for scientific use, ethical approval was not needed for this 
study. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature 
remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and 
institutional affiliations.


404. Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2018 Jan;3(1):57-65. doi: 
10.1016/S2468-1253(17)30213-3. Epub 2017 Sep 29.

Effect of diagnosis, surveillance, and treatment of Barrett's oesophagus on 
health-related quality of life.

Britton J(1), Keld R(2), Prasad N(2), Hamdy S(3), McLaughlin J(3), Ang Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Diabetes, Endocrinology and Gastroenterology, School of Medical 
Sciences, Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health, The University of Manchester, 
Manchester, UK; Department of Gastroenterology, Wrightington, Wigan, UK; Leigh 
NHS Trust, Wigan, UK.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Wrightington, Wigan, UK; Leigh NHS Trust, 
Wigan, UK.
(3)Division of Diabetes, Endocrinology and Gastroenterology, School of Medical 
Sciences, Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health, The University of Manchester, 
Manchester, UK; Department of Gastroenterology, Salford Royal NHS Foundation 
Trust, Manchester Academic Health Sciences Centre, Salford, UK.
(4)Division of Diabetes, Endocrinology and Gastroenterology, School of Medical 
Sciences, Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health, The University of Manchester, 
Manchester, UK; Department of Gastroenterology, Salford Royal NHS Foundation 
Trust, Manchester Academic Health Sciences Centre, Salford, UK. Electronic 
address: yeng.ang@srft.nhs.uk.

Barrett's oesophagus is a chronic precancerous condition that predisposes 
patients to the development of oesophageal adenocarcinoma, which, once invasive, 
carries a poor prognosis. This likelihood of a negative outcome has led to the 
development of robust surveillance and treatment pathways. The true effect of 
Barrett's oesophagus on life expectancy and the efficacy of long-term 
surveillance remains under debate. With these uncertainties and no reliable 
methods of individual risk stratification, patients must be continually 
monitored and thus carry the burden of this chronic disease. In this Review, we 
summarise the major findings concerning the patients' perspective of this 
disease and its care pathways. Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) 
measurement has become a valuable metric to assess the effects of disease, the 
quality of health-care delivery, and treatment efficacy across various disease 
settings. Research to date has shown significant reductions in HRQoL scores 
related to Barrett's oesophagus compared with controls from the general 
population. The scores of patients with Barrett's oesophagus seem to be similar 
to those of patients with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease. Symptom control 
appears to be important, but not the only factor, in maximising HRQoL. Most 
researchers have used generic and disease-specific HRQoL instruments because 
there are few outcome measures that are validated and reliable in patients with 
Barrett's oesophagus. These methodologies potentially overlook crucial 
unmeasured areas that are specific to patients with Barrett's oesophagus. 
Historically, follow-up care has left some patients with insufficient 
understanding of the disease, inaccurate perceptions of cancer risk, and an 
unnecessary psychological burden. A greater understanding of the prevalence of 
these factors and identification of follow-up needs specific to these patients 
will help to shape future health-care delivery and improve patient experience.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2468-1253(17)30213-3
PMID: 28970029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. J Proteomics. 2018 Jan 6;170:28-42. doi: 10.1016/j.jprot.2017.09.013. Epub
2017  Sep 29.

The proteome speciation of an immortalized cystic fibrosis cell line: New 
perspectives on the pathophysiology of the disease.

Puglia M(1), Landi C(2), Gagliardi A(3), Breslin L(4), Armini A(2), Brunetti 
J(5), Pini A(5), Bianchi L(2), Bini L(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Southern 
Denmark, Denmark; Lab. of Functional Proteomics, Department of Life Sciences, 
University of Siena, Siena, Italy.
(2)Lab. of Functional Proteomics, Department of Life Sciences, University of 
Siena, Siena, Italy.
(3)Lab. of Functional Proteomics, Department of Life Sciences, University of 
Siena, Siena, Italy; CIBIO, University of Trento, Trento, Italy.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Southern 
Denmark, Denmark.
(5)Department of Medical Biotechnologies, University of Siena, Siena, Italy.
(6)Lab. of Functional Proteomics, Department of Life Sciences, University of 
Siena, Siena, Italy. Electronic address: luca.bini@unisi.it.
