PMID: 28938756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. J Biol Chem. 2017 Nov 10;292(45):18682-18688. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M117.808659.
Epub  2017 Sep 22.

Translesion synthesis DNA polymerases promote error-free replication through the 
minor-groove DNA adduct 3-deaza-3-methyladenine.

Yoon JH(1), Roy Choudhury J(1), Park J(1), Prakash S(1), Prakash L(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of 
Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas 77555-1061.
(2)From the Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of 
Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas 77555-1061 l.prakash@utmb.edu.

N3-Methyladenine (3-MeA) is formed in DNA by reaction with S-adenosylmethionine, 
the reactive methyl donor, and by reaction with alkylating agents. 3-MeA 
protrudes into the DNA minor groove and strongly blocks synthesis by replicative 
DNA polymerases (Pols). However, the mechanisms for replicating through this 
lesion in human cells remain unidentified. Here we analyzed the roles of 
translesion synthesis (TLS) Pols in the replication of 3-MeA-damaged DNA in 
human cells. Because 3-MeA has a short half-life in vitro, we used the stable 
3-deaza analog, 3-deaza-3-methyladenine (3-dMeA), which blocks the DNA minor 
groove similarly to 3-MeA. We found that replication through the 3-dMeA adduct 
is mediated via three different pathways, dependent upon Polι/Polκ, Polθ, and 
Polζ. As inferred from biochemical studies, in the Polι/Polκ pathway, Polι 
inserts a nucleotide (nt) opposite 3-dMeA and Polκ extends synthesis from the 
inserted nt. In the Polθ pathway, Polθ carries out both the insertion and 
extension steps of TLS opposite 3-dMeA, and in the Polζ pathway, Polζ extends 
synthesis following nt insertion by an as yet unidentified Pol. Steady-state 
kinetic analyses indicated that Polι and Polθ insert the correct nt T opposite 
3-dMeA with a much reduced catalytic efficiency and that both Pols exhibit a 
high propensity for inserting a wrong nt opposite this adduct. However, despite 
their low fidelity of synthesis opposite 3-dMeA, TLS opposite this lesion 
replicates DNA in a highly error-free manner in human cells. We discuss the 
implications of these observations for TLS mechanisms in human cells.

© 2017 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M117.808659
PMCID: PMC5682974
PMID: 28939775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest with the contents of this article


285. Pediatr Nephrol. 2019 Jan;34(1):1-10. doi: 10.1007/s00467-017-3798-x. Epub
2017  Sep 22.

Pathophysiology and treatment of cardiovascular disease in pediatric chronic 
kidney disease.

Khouzam N(1), Wesseling-Perry K(2).

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(2)David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, A2-383 MDCC, 650 Charles Young Drive 
East, Los Angeles, CA, 90095, USA. kwesseling@mednet.ucla.edu.

Life expectancy in patients with all stages of chronic kidney disease (CKD) 
falls far short of that in the general population. Cardiovascular disease is the 
leading cause of mortality in pediatric patients with CKD. In contrast to the 
intimal atherosclerotic lesions that characterize cardiovascular disease in the 
general population, vascular endothelial dysfunction, medial arterial 
calcification, and cardiac dysfunction contribute to cardiovascular pathological 
conditions in CKD. The pathogenesis of these lesions, the origins of which can 
be identified in the absence of traditional cardiovascular risk factors, is 
incompletely understood. CKD-mediated vascular calcification in CKD is 
characterized by a transition of vascular smooth muscle cells to an 
osteoblast-like phenotype and altered bone and mineral metabolism are strongly 
linked to progressive cardiovascular disease in this population. Renal 
osteodystrophy therapies, including phosphate binders, vitamin D analogs, and 
calcimimetics, have an impact on the progression of cardiovascular disease. 
However, cardiovascular disease has its origins before the development of 
secondary hyperparathyroidism, and optimal therapeutic regimens that minimize 
cardiac dysfunction, vascular calcification, and early mortality remain to be 
defined.

DOI: 10.1007/s00467-017-3798-x
PMID: 28939921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc. 2018 Feb;26(2):634-647. doi: 
10.1007/s00167-017-4725-1. Epub 2017 Sep 22.

Similar cost-utility for double- and single-bundle techniques in ACL 
reconstruction.

Sernert N(1)(2), Hansson E(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Research and Development, NU Hospital Group, Trollhättan, 
Sweden. ninni.sernert@vgregion.se.
(2)Institute of Clinical Sciences, Gothenburg University, Gothenburg, Sweden. 
ninni.sernert@vgregion.se.
(3)Institute of Health and Care Sciences, Sahlgrenska Academy, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(4)Department of Orthopaedics, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.

PURPOSE: The aim was to estimate the cost-utility of the DB technique (n = 53) 
compared with the SB (n = 50) technique 2 years after ACL reconstruction.
METHODS: One hundred and five patients with an ACL injury were randomised to 
either the Double-bundle (DB) or the Single-bundle (SB) technique. One hundred 
and three patients (SBG n = 50, DBG n = 53) attended the 2-year follow-up 
examination. The mean age was 27.5 (8.4) years in the SBG and 30.1 (9.1) years 
in the DBG. The cost per quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) was used as the 
primary outcome. Direct costs were the cost of health care, in this case 
outpatient procedures. Indirect costs are costs related to reduce work ability 
for health reasons. The cost-utility analysis was measured in terms of QALY 
gained.
RESULTS: The groups were comparable in terms of clinical outcome. Operating room 
time was statistically significantly longer in the DBG (p = 0.001), making the 
direct costs statistically significantly higher in the DBG (p = 0.005). There 
was no significant difference in QALYs between groups. In the cost-effectiveness 
plane, the mean difference in costs and QALYs from the trial data using 1000 
bootstrap replicates in order to visualise the uncertainty associated with the 
mean incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) estimate showed that the ICERs 
were spread out over all quadrants. The cost-effectiveness acceptability curve 
showed that there was a 50% probability of the DB being cost-effective at a 
threshold of Euro 50,000.
CONCLUSION: The principal findings are that the DB is more expensive from a 
health-care perspective. This suggests that the physician may choose 
individualised treatment to match the patients' expectations and requirements.

DOI: 10.1007/s00167-017-4725-1
PMCID: PMC5794842
PMID: 28939947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: No conflicts of interest 
to declare. FUNDING: The study was financially supported by the Swedish Research 
Council for Sport Science and the Healthcare sub-committee, Region Västra 
Götaland. ETHICAL APPROVAL: The study was approved by the Regional Ethical 
Committee at Gothenburg University (EPN Dnr 162-11) and was performed in 
accordance with the ethical standards laid down in the 1964 Declaration of 
Helsinki. Participation in the Swedish national register is voluntary for 
surgeons and patients, and thus no written consent is necessary. All data are 
unidentifiable patient data.


287. Br J Dermatol. 2018 Feb;178(2):415-423. doi: 10.1111/bjd.16006. Epub 2018
Jan  15.

Doxycycline compared with prednisolone therapy for patients with bullous 
pemphigoid: cost-effectiveness analysis of the BLISTER trial.

Mason JM(1), Chalmers JR(2), Godec T(3), Nunn AJ(3), Kirtschig G(2), Wojnarowska 
F(4), Childs M(5), Whitham D(5), Schmidt E(6), Harman K(7), Walton S(8), Chapman 
A(9), Williams HC(2); U.K. Dermatology Clinical Trials Network BLISTER Study 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, U.K.
(2)Centre of Evidence Based Dermatology, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, 
NG7 2NR, U.K.
(3)MRC Clinical Trials Unit at UCL, Aviation House, 125 Kingsway, London, WC2B 
6NH, U.K.
(4)Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford, OX3 
7BN, U.K.
(5)Nottingham Clinical Trials Unit, Nottingham Health Science Partners, QMC, 
Nottingham, NG7 2UH, U.K.
(6)Department of Dermatology, University of Lübeck, Lübeck, Germany.
(7)Dermatology Department, Leicester Royal Infirmary, University Hospitals 
Leicester, Leicester, LE1 5WW, U.K.
(8)Castle Hill Hospital, Castle Road, Cottingham, Hull, HU16 5JQ, U.K.
(9)Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Greenwich, London, SE18 4QH, U.K.

Comment in
    Br J Dermatol. 2018 Mar;178(3):810.
    Br J Dermatol. 2018 Mar;178(3):809-810.
    Br J Dermatol. 2018 Feb;178(2):320-321.

BACKGROUND: Bullous pemphigoid (BP) is an autoimmune blistering skin disorder 
associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Doxycycline and 
prednisolone to treat bullous pemphigoid were compared within a randomized 
controlled trial (RCT).
OBJECTIVES: To compare the cost-effectiveness of doxycycline-initiated and 
prednisolone-initiated treatment for patients with BP.
METHODS: Quality-of-life (EuroQoL-5D-3L) and resource data were collected as 
part of the BLISTER trial: a multicentre, parallel-group, investigator-blinded 
RCT. Within-trial analysis was performed using bivariate regression of costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), with multiple imputation of missing data, 
informing a probabilistic assessment of incremental treatment cost-effectiveness 
from a health service perspective.
RESULTS: In the base case, there was no robust difference in costs or QALYs per 
patient at 1 year comparing doxycycline- with prednisolone-initiated therapy 
[net cost £959, 95% confidence interval (CI) -£24 to £1941; net QALYs -0·024, 
95% CI -0·088 to 0·041]. However, the findings varied by baseline blister 
severity. For patients with mild or moderate blistering (≤ 30 blisters) net 
costs and outcomes were similar. For patients with severe blistering (> 30 
blisters) net costs were higher (£2558, 95% CI -£82 to £5198) and quality of 
life poorer (-0·090 QALYs, 95% CI -0·22 to 0·042) for patients starting on 
doxycycline. The probability that doxycycline would be cost-effective for those 
with severe pemphigoid was 1·5% at a willingness to pay of £20 000 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Consistently with the clinical findings of the BLISTER trial, 
patients with mild or moderate blistering should receive treatment guided by the 
safety and effectiveness of the drugs and patient preference - neither strategy 
is clearly a preferred use of National Health Service resources. However, 
prednisolone-initiated treatment may be more cost-effective for patients with 
severe blistering.

© 2017 The Authors. British Journal of Dermatology published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd on behalf of British Association of Dermatologists.

DOI: 10.1111/bjd.16006
PMCID: PMC5813790
PMID: 28940316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: HCW is Director of the NIHR 
Health Technology Assessment Programme. JM, JRC, FW, GK, TRG, ES, MC, SW, KH, 
AC, DW, and AJN report no competing interests.


288. Hepatology. 2018 May;67(5):1726-1736. doi: 10.1002/hep.29546. Epub 2018 Mar
23.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease incidence and impact on metabolic burden and 
death: A 20 year-community study.

Allen AM(1), Therneau TM(2), Larson JJ(2), Coward A(1), Somers VK(3), Kamath 
PS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.
(2)Department of Biomedical Statistics and Informatics, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
MN.
(3)Department of Cardiovascular Diseases, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2018 May;67(5):1657-1659.
    Hepatology. 2018 Jun;67(6):2474.

Recent population-based data on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) 
epidemiology in general, and incidence in particular, are lacking. We examined 
trends in NAFLD incidence in a U.S. community and the impact of NAFLD on 
incident metabolic comorbidities (MCs), cardiovascular (CV) events, and 
mortality. A community cohort of all adults diagnosed with NAFLD in Olmsted 
County, Minnesota, between 1997 and 2014 was constructed using the Rochester 
Epidemiology Project database. The yearly incidence rate were calculated. The 
impact of NAFLD on incident MCs, CV events, and mortality was studied using a 
multistate model, with a 4:1 age- and sex-matched general population as a 
reference. We identified 3,869 NAFLD subjects (median age, 53; 52% women) and 
15,209 controls; median follow-up was 7 (1-20) years. NAFLD incidence increased 
5-fold, from 62 to 329 in 100,000 person-years. The increase was highest 
(7-fold) in young adults, aged 18-39 years. The 10-year mortality was higher in 
NAFLD subjects (10.2%) than controls (7.6%; P < 0.0001). NAFLD was an 
independent risk factor for incident MCs and death. Mortality risk decreased as 
the number of incident MCs increased: relative risk (RR) = 2.16 (95% confidence 
[CI], 1.41-3.31), 1.99 (95% CI, 1.48-2.66), 1.75 (95% CI, 1.42-2.14), and 1.08 
(95% CI, 0.89-1.30) when 0, 1, 2, or 3 MCs were present, respectively. The NAFLD 
impact on CV events was significant only in subjects without MCs (RR = 1.96; 95% 
CI = 1.35-2.86). NAFLD reduced life expectancy by 4 years, with more time spent 
in high metabolic burden.
CONCLUSION: Incidence of NAFLD diagnosis in the community has increased 5-fold, 
particularly in young adults. NAFLD is a consequence, but also a precursor of 
MC. Incident MC attenuates the impact of NAFLD on death and annuls its impact on 
CV disease. (Hepatology 2018;67:1726-1736).

© 2017 by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.29546
PMCID: PMC5866219
PMID: 28941364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Lancet Infect Dis. 2017 Dec;17(12):1247-1254. doi: 
10.1016/S1473-3099(17)30483-8. Epub 2017 Sep 21.

The global burden of scabies: a cross-sectional analysis from the Global Burden 
of Disease Study 2015.

Karimkhani C(1), Colombara DV(2), Drucker AM(3), Norton SA(4), Hay R(5), 
Engelman D(6), Steer A(6), Whitfeld M(7), Naghavi M(2), Dellavalle RP(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, 
Aurora, CO, USA. Electronic address: ck2525@caa.columbia.edu.
(2)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Brown University, Providence, RI, USA.
(4)Department of Dermatology, Children's National Medical Center, NW Washington 
DC, USA.
(5)Department of Dermatology, King's College Hospital, Denmark Hill, London, UK.
(6)Centre for International Child Health and Murdoch Children's Research 
Institute, University of Melbourne, Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.
(7)Department of Dermatology, St Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(8)Department of Dermatology, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, 
Aurora, CO, USA; Department of Epidemiology, Colorado School of Public Health, 
Aurora, CO, USA; Dermatology Service, US Department of Veterans Affairs, Eastern 
Colorado Health System, Denver, CO, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet Infect Dis. 2017 Dec;17(12):1220-1221.
    Lancet Infect Dis. 2017 Dec;17(12):1234.

BACKGROUND: Numerous population-based studies have documented high prevalence of 
scabies in overcrowded settings, particularly among children and in tropical 
regions. We provide an estimate of the global burden of scabies using data from 
the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) Study 2015.
METHODS: We identified scabies epidemiological data sources from an extensive 
literature search and hospital insurance data and analysed data sources with a 
Bayesian meta-regression modelling tool, DisMod-MR 2·1, to yield prevalence 
estimates. We combined prevalence estimates with a disability weight, measuring 
disfigurement, itch, and pain caused by scabies, to produce years lived with 
disability (YLDs). With an assumed zero mortality from scabies, YLDs were 
equivalent to disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs). We estimated DALYs for 195 
countries divided into 21 world regions, in both sexes and 20 age groups, 
between 1990 and 2015.
FINDINGS: Scabies was responsible for 0·21% of DALYs from all conditions studied 
by GBD 2015 worldwide. The world regions of east Asia (age-standardised DALYs 
136·32), southeast Asia (134·57), Oceania (120·34), tropical Latin America 
(99·94), and south Asia (69·41) had the greatest burden of DALYs from scabies. 
Mean percent change of DALY rate from 1990 to 2015 was less than 8% in all world 
regions, except North America, which had a 23·9% increase. The five individual 
countries with greatest scabies burden were Indonesia (age-standardised DALYs 
153·86), China (138·25), Timor-Leste (136·67), Vanuatu (131·59), and Fiji 
(130·91). The largest standard deviations of age-standardised DALYs between the 
20 age groups were observed in southeast Asia (60·1), Oceania (58·3), and east 
Asia (56·5), with the greatest DALY burdens in children, adolescents, and the 
elderly.
INTERPRETATION: The burden of scabies is greater in tropical regions, especially 
in children, adolescents, and elderly people. As a worldwide epidemiological 
assessment, GBD 2015 provides broad and frequently updated measures of scabies 
burden in terms of skin effects. These global data might help guide research 
protocols and prioritisation efforts and focus scabies treatment and control 
measures.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2017 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1473-3099(17)30483-8
PMCID: PMC5700804
PMID: 28941561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Can J Cardiol. 2017 Oct;33(10):1283-1291. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2017.07.012.
Epub  2017 Jul 21.

Economic Evaluation of Left Ventricular Assist Devices for Patients With End 
Stage Heart Failure Who Are Ineligible for Cardiac Transplantation.

Chew DS(1), Manns B(2), Miller RJH(1), Sharma N(1), Exner DV(3).

Author information:
(1)Libin Cardiovascular Institute of Alberta, University of Calgary, Calgary, 
Alberta, Canada.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada; 
Department of Community Health Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, 
Alberta, Canada.
(3)Libin Cardiovascular Institute of Alberta, University of Calgary, Calgary, 
Alberta, Canada; Department of Community Health Sciences, University of Calgary, 
Calgary, Alberta, Canada. Electronic address: exner@ucalgary.ca.

BACKGROUND: Continuous flow (CF) left ventricular assist devices (LVADs) improve 
survival in end-stage heart failure patients who are ineligible for cardiac 
transplantation. Their use in this population (referred to as destination 
therapy) is increasing in many countries, yet they are not routinely funded for 
this indication in Canada. We assessed the cost-effectiveness of destination 
therapy CF-LVADs from the perspective of the Canadian health care payer.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to project the outcomes and costs of 2 
treatment pathways, CF-LVAD implantation and medical management alone, in an 
end-stage heart failure patient cohort ineligible for transplantation. Clinical 
and cost input estimates were informed from the available literature. Model 
outcomes included costs (in 2015 Canadian dollars), quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs), and the cost per QALY gained.
RESULTS: Compared with medical management, CF-LVAD patients had higher costs 
($284,287 vs $31,984) and QALYs (1.48 vs 0.39) over a lifetime horizon. The 
incremental cost per QALY gained was $230,692. The model was most sensitive to 
device implantation costs, and the clinical effectiveness of CF-LVADs on 
survival and quality of life. A scenario analysis using contemporary survival 
data resulted in a cost per QALY gained of $125,936. When applying contemporary 
LVAD survival trends, the model showed that the cost of initial LVAD 
implantation needed to be less than $123,000 to be considered cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: The incremental cost per QALY for destination therapy CF-LVADs is 
predicted to be above usual thresholds for funding in Canada. In some plausible 
scenarios, its cost-effectiveness is similar to dialysis for kidney failure, a 
therapy that is also immediately life-saving. Because of this, there will be 
likely ongoing pressure to fund CF-LVADs for a subset of patients ineligible for 
transplantation.

Copyright © 2017 Canadian Cardiovascular Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cjca.2017.07.012
PMID: 28941608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Food Microbiol. 2018 Feb;69:143-150. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2017.08.002. Epub
2017  Aug 11.

Microbiological stabilization of tiger nuts' milk beverage using ultra-high 
pressure homogenization. A preliminary study on microbial shelf-life extension.

Codina-Torrella I(1), Guamis B(1), Zamora A(1), Quevedo JM(2), Trujillo AJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre d'Innovació, Recerca i Transferència en Tecnologia dels Aliments 
(CIRTTA), XaRTA, TECNIO, MALTA-Consolider, Departament de Ciència Animal i dels 
Aliments, Facultat de Veterinària, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Bellaterra 
(Cerdanyola del Vallès), Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Servei Planta de Tecnologia dels Aliments (SPTA), Facultat de Veterinària, 
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Bellaterra (Cerdanyola del Vallès), 
Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Centre d'Innovació, Recerca i Transferència en Tecnologia dels Aliments 
(CIRTTA), XaRTA, TECNIO, MALTA-Consolider, Departament de Ciència Animal i dels 
Aliments, Facultat de Veterinària, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Bellaterra 
(Cerdanyola del Vallès), Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: 
toni.trujillo@uab.es.

Tiger nuts' milk beverages are highly perishable products. For this reason, the 
interest of food industry for their commercialization makes necessary the 
application of preservation treatments to prolong their shelf-life. In the 
current study, the effect of ultra-high pressure homogenization (UHPH) on the 
microbiological and sensory qualities of tiger nuts' milk beverage was 
evaluated. Characteristics of UHPH-treated products (at 200 and 300 MPa, with 
inlet temperature of 40 °C) were compared with those of raw (RP) and 
conventionally homogenized-pasteurized (H-P) beverages, after treatment and 
during cold storage at 4 °C. Microbiological quality of beverages was studied by 
enumerating total counts, psychrotrophic bacteria, lactobacilli, enterobacteria, 
molds and yeasts, and mesophilic spores. Evolution of color and sensory 
characteristics of beverages were also determined. Microbiological shelf-life of 
the tiger nuts' milk beverages was extended from 3 to 25, 30 and 57 days by 
applying H-P and UHPH treatments at 200 and 300 MPa, respectively. Color of 
beverages was the only attribute that differentiated UHPH samples from the 
others, with greater luminosity and whiteness. Hence, UHPH treatments showed to 
be an alternative to the conventional H-P for obtaining tiger nuts' milk 
beverages with an improved microbiological shelf-life and good sensorial 
characteristics.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2017.08.002
PMID: 28941895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Food Microbiol. 2018 Feb;69:25-32. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2017.07.015. Epub 2017
Jul  21.

Internalization and dissemination of human norovirus and Tulane virus in fresh 
produce is plant dependent.

Yang Z(1), Chambers H(2), DiCaprio E(3), Gao G(4), Li J(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, College of Life Science, Huzhou University, Huzhou, 
Zhejiang, China.
(2)Department of Veterinary Biosciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, The 
Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA.
(3)Department of Food Science and Technology, College of Agriculture and 
Environmental Sciences, University of California-Davis, Davis, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Extension, College of Food, Agriculture, and Environmental 
Sciences, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA; South Centers, The Ohio 
State University, Piketon, OH, USA. Electronic address: gao.2@osu.edu.
(5)Department of Veterinary Biosciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, The 
Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA. Electronic address: li.926@osu.edu.

Human norovirus (NoV) is a leading cause of fresh produce associated outbreaks. 
Previous research indicates that the roots of growing leafy greens and berries 
internalize human NoV. However the effect of plant type and inoculum level on 
internalization rates has not been directly compared. In this study we compared 
the internalization and dissemination rates of human NoV and its surrogate, 
Tulane virus (TV) in green onion, radishes, and Romaine lettuce. We also 
evaluated the effect inoculum level and plant growth matrix on the rate of viral 
internalization. In the hydroponic growth system, we detected internalization 
and dissemination of human NoV RNA in green onions. In hydroponically growing 
green onions inoculated with high titer TV, we found higher rates of 
internalization and dissemination compared to green onions inoculated with low 
titer TV. In soil growth systems, no infectious TV was detected in either green 
onion or radishes. However, in Romaine lettuce plants grown in soil 
approximately 4 log10 PFU/g was recovered from all tissues on day 14 p.i. 
Overall, we found that the type of plant, growth matrix, and the inoculum level 
influences the internalization and dissemination of human NoV and TV.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2017.07.015
PMCID: PMC6361382
PMID: 28941906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. EuroIntervention. 2017 Sep 24;13(AA):AA31-AA39. doi: 10.4244/EIJ-D-17-00673.

Transcatheter mitral valve replacement: device landscape and early results.

Patel A(1), Bapat V.

Author information:
(1)Center for Interventional and Vascular Therapy, Columbia University Medical 
Center, New York, NY, USA.

Mitral regurgitation (MR) is the second most common valvular heart disease in 
the western world with a prevalence in the USA alone of two to four million 
people. MR is age-dependent and hence the MR burden is expected to increase with 
the increase in life expectancy observed in Europe and the USA. Medical and 
surgical treatment has been the cornerstone of the treatment as untreated MR 
results in poor prognosis. However, only a fraction of patients are offered 
surgical treatment due to high risk. With the success of transcatheter aortic 
valve implantation (TAVI), many transcatheter options have emerged to provide a 
less invasive option for these patients. On the one hand, the repair options 
appear less invasive but tend to reduce the MR, while on the other hand the 
replacement options can eliminate the MR but could be more invasive. This 
article provides an overview of emerging transcatheter mitral valve replacement 
(TMVR) options currently available and summarises challenges in device design 
and patient selection and also early results.

DOI: 10.4244/EIJ-D-17-00673
PMID: 28942384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Respir Investig. 2017 Sep;55(5):289-290. doi: 10.1016/j.resinv.2017.08.001.
Epub  2017 Aug 26.

Respiratory sleep medicine along with conventional medicine aids in healthy life 
expectancy.

Chin K(1).

Author information:
(1)The Department of Respiratory Care and Sleep Control Medicine, Graduate 
School of Medicine, Kyoto University, Japan. Electronic address: 
chink@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp.

DOI: 10.1016/j.resinv.2017.08.001
PMID: 28942882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. J Vasc Surg. 2018 Feb;67(2):529-535.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2017.07.115. Epub
 2017 Sep 21.

Comparative effectiveness of one-stage versus two-stage basilic vein 
transposition arteriovenous fistulas.

Ghaffarian AA(1), Griffin CL(1), Kraiss LW(1), Sarfati MR(1), Brooke BS(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt 
Lake City, Utah.
(2)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt 
Lake City, Utah. Electronic address: benjamin.brooke@hsc.utah.edu.

OBJECTIVE: Basilic vein transposition (BVT) fistulas may be performed as either 
a one-stage or two-stage operation, although there is debate as to which 
technique is superior. This study was designed to evaluate the comparative 
clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of one-stage vs two-stage BVT.
METHODS: We identified all patients at a single large academic hospital who had 
undergone creation of either a one-stage or two-stage BVT between January 2007 
and January 2015. Data evaluated included patient demographics, comorbidities, 
medication use, reasons for abandonment, and interventions performed to maintain 
patency. Costs were derived from the literature, and effectiveness was expressed 
in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). We analyzed primary and secondary 
functional patency outcomes as well as survival during follow-up between 
one-stage and two-stage BVT procedures using multivariate Cox proportional 
hazards models and Kaplan-Meier analysis with log-rank tests. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was used to determine cost savings.
RESULTS: We identified 131 patients in whom 57 (44%) one-stage BVT and 74 (56%) 
two-stage BVT fistulas were created among 8 different vascular surgeons during 
the study period that each performed both procedures. There was no significant 
difference in the mean age, male gender, white race, diabetes, coronary disease, 
or medication profile among patients undergoing one- vs two-stage BVT. After 
fistula transposition, the median follow-up time was 8.3 months (interquartile 
range, 3-21 months). Primary patency rates of one-stage BVT were 56% at 12-month 
follow-up, whereas primary patency rates of two-stage BVT were 72% at 12-month 
follow-up. Patients undergoing two-stage BVT also had significantly higher rates 
of secondary functional patency at 12 months (57% for one-stage BVT vs 80% for 
two-stage BVT) and 24 months (44% for one-stage BVT vs 73% for two-stage BVT) of 
follow-up (P < .001 using log-rank test). However, there was no significant 
difference between groups in use of interventions (58% for one-stage BVT vs 51% 
for two-stage BVT; P = .5) to maintain patency. These findings were confirmed in 
multivariate analysis, in which two-stage BVTs were associated with a 
significantly lower rate of failure (hazard ratio, 0.39; 95% confidence 
interval, 0.2-0.8; P < .05) than one-stage BVTs after controlling for 
confounding variables. Finally, the two-stage BVT was more cost-effective (3.74 
QALYs for two-stage BVT vs 3.32 QALYs for one-stage BVT) during 5 years, with an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $4681 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data show that two-stage BVTs are more durable and 
cost-effective than one-stage procedures, with significantly higher patency and 
lower rates of failure among comparable risk-stratified patients. These findings 
suggest that additional upfront costs and resources associated with creating 
two-stage BVTs are justified by their long-term outcomes.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2017.07.115
PMID: 28943003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. J Vasc Surg. 2018 Jan;67(1):175-182. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2017.05.107. Epub
2017  Sep 21.

Development and validation of a score to predict life expectancy after carotid 
endarterectomy in asymptomatic patients.

Carmo M(1), Barbetta I(2), Bissacco D(3), Trimarchi S(4), Catanese V(5), Bonzini 
M(6), Bonardelli S(7), Settembrini PG(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Ospedale San Carlo Borromeo, Milan, Italy. 
Electronic address: michele.carmo@asst-santipaolocarlo.it.
(2)Division of Vascular Surgery, Ospedale San Carlo Borromeo, Milan, Italy; I 
Division of Surgery, Vascular Surgery Unit, Spedali Civili, Brescia, Italy.
(3)Division of Vascular Surgery, Ospedale San Carlo Borromeo, Milan, Italy; II 
Division of Vascular Surgery, IRCCS Policlinico di San Donato, San Donato 
Milanese, Italy.
(4)II Division of Vascular Surgery, IRCCS Policlinico di San Donato, San Donato 
Milanese, Italy.
(5)Division of Vascular Surgery, Ospedale San Carlo Borromeo, Milan, Italy.
(6)Division of Occupational Health, IRCCS Fondazione Ca' Granda Ospedale 
Maggiore Policlinico, Milan, Italy.
(7)I Division of Surgery, Vascular Surgery Unit, Spedali Civili, Brescia, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: Recent improvement of best medical treatment for carotid stenosis has 
sparked a debate on the role of surgery-identification of patients who may 
benefit from carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is crucial to avoid overtreatment. An 
expected 5-year postoperative survival is one of the main selection criteria. 
The aim of this study was the development of a score for predicting survival of 
asymptomatic patients after CEA.
METHODS: Our score was derived from a retrospective analysis of 648 consecutive 
asymptomatic patients from a single hospital. External validation of the score 
was then performed on a second cohort of 334 asymptomatic patients from two 
different hospitals in the same area. Factors associated with reduced 
postoperative survival within the derivation cohort (DC) were identified and 
tested for statistical significance. Each selected factor was assigned a score 
proportional to its β coefficient: 1 point for chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease, diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, and lack of statin 
treatment; 4 points for age 70 to 79 years and creatinine concentration 
≥1.5 mg/dL; 8 points for age ≥80 years and dialysis. The DC was divided into 
four groups based on individual scores: group 1, 0 to 3 points; group 2, 4 to 7 
points; group 3, 8 to 11 points; and group 4, ≥12 points. Group-specific 
survival curves were calculated. The validation cohort (VC) was stratified 
according to the score. Survival of each of the four risk groups within the VC 
was compared with its analogue from the DC.
RESULTS: Median follow-up of the DC and VC was, respectively, 56 and 65 months. 
Intercohort comparison of 5-year survival was 84.7% ± 1.7% vs 85.2% ± 2% (P = 
.41). Group-specific 5-year survival within the DC was 97% ± 1.5% (group 1), 
88.4% ± 2.2% (group 2), 69.6% ± 4.7% (group 3), and 48.1% ± 13.5% (group 4; P < 
.0001). Five-year survival within the VC was 95.5% ± 2% (group 1), 89.5% ± 2.7% 
(group 2), 65% ± 6.1% (group 3), and 44.8% ± 14.1% (group 4; P < .0001). 
Intercohort comparison of group-specific survival curves showed close similarity 
throughout the groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Our score is a simple clinical tool that allows a quick and 
reliable prediction of survival in asymptomatic patients who are candidates for 
CEA. This selective approach is crucial to avoid unnecessary surgery on patients 
who are less likely to survive long enough to experience the benefits of this 
preventive procedure.

Copyright © 2017 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2017.05.107
PMID: 28943008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. J Pediatr Urol. 2018 Feb;14(1):11.e1-11.e6. doi:
10.1016/j.jpurol.2017.08.001.  Epub 2017 Sep 6.

Pregnancy among mothers with spina bifida.

Shepard CL(1), Yan PL(2), Hollingsworth JM(2), Kraft KH(3).

Author information:
(1)Divisions of Pediatric Urology and Health Services Research, Department of 
Urology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. Electronic address: 
coshepar@med.umich.edu.
(2)Divisions of Endourology and Health Services Research, Department of Urology, 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(3)Division of Pediatric Urology, Department of Urology, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Recognizing the importance of sexual and reproductive health to 
patients with spina bifida (SB), pediatric urologists have taken responsibility 
for initiating conversations regarding this topic with adolescent and young 
adult SB patients. However, the sexual and reproductive health of women with SB 
remains under-investigated. It is unknown how many women are having babies, what 
mode of delivery is used, and if this has changed over time with the increasing 
life expectancy of these patients. A better understanding of pregnancy and 
delivery among young women with SB will enable urologists to provide more 
informed, comprehensive counseling to patients.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to compare hospitalizations for delivery in women with and 
without SB to determine differences in the mode of delivery used and changes in 
the rate of deliveries over time.
STUDY DESIGN: Using the Healthcare Cost and Utilization's National Inpatient 
Sample, we identified all hospitalizations for delivery in 2003-2013. After 
distinguishing between hospitalizations among women with and without SB, 
temporal trends analysis and bivariate comparison were performed to determine 
differences in patient and hospital characteristics and mode of deliveries.
RESULTS: We identified 10,147 hospitalizations for deliveries among women with 
SB and 42,197,763 among women without. Of all hospitalizations for deliveries, 
the percentage of deliveries by women with SB increased by 56% between 2003 and 
2013 (629-925 deliveries per year, p < 0.001). Women with SB hospitalized for a 
delivery differed from those without SB. They had a higher number of 
comorbidities and were more likely to be white, have Medicare or private 
insurance, live outside a city, and deliver at an urban teaching hospital (all 
p < 0.001). Women with SB were significantly more likely to undergo a caesarean 
section (see Figure, 52.4% of women with SB vs. 31.9% of those without, 
p < 0.001), although nearly half were able to undergo vaginal delivery. For 
women with SB, 25.9% of all deliveries occurred by age 22, which did not differ 
significantly from women without SB (24.7% of all deliveries).
DISCUSSION: There are significant differences in the characteristics and mode of 
delivery between women with and without SB who are hospitalized for a delivery. 
The number of deliveries among these women are significantly increasing and over 
a quarter of the deliveries occur by age 22.
CONCLUSION: With increasing rates of deliveries and young age at delivery for 
women with SB, it is imperative that pediatric and transitional urologists 
initiate discussions on sexual and reproductive health beginning in adolescence.

Copyright © 2017 Journal of Pediatric Urology Company. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpurol.2017.08.001
PMCID: PMC5839949
PMID: 28943353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest None.


298. J Clin Epidemiol. 2018 Jan;93:103-111. doi: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2017.09.014.
Epub  2017 Sep 21.

Predicted burden could replace predicted risk in preventive strategies 
for cardiovascular disease.

Lagerweij GR(1), de Wit GA(2), Moons KGM(3), Verschuren WMM(2), Boer JMA(4), 
Koffijberg H(5).

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, Universiteitsweg 100, 
3584 CG Utrecht, The Netherlands; Netherlands Heart Institute, Holland Heart 
House, Moreelsepark 1, 3511 EP, Utrecht, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
g.r.lagerweij@umcutrecht.nl.
(2)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, Universiteitsweg 100, 
3584 CG Utrecht, The Netherlands; Centre for Nutrition, Prevention, and 
Healthcare, National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), 
Antonie van Leeuwenhoeklaan 9, 3721 MA, Bilthoven, The Netherlands.
(3)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, Universiteitsweg 100, 
3584 CG Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(4)Centre for Nutrition, Prevention, and Healthcare, National Institute for 
Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), Antonie van Leeuwenhoeklaan 9, 3721 
MA, Bilthoven, The Netherlands.
(5)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, Universiteitsweg 100, 
3584 CG Utrecht, The Netherlands; Department of Health Technology & Services 
Research, MIRA Institute for Biomedical Technology and Technical Medicine, 
University of Twente, Drienerlolaan 5, 7522 NB, Enschede, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to explore the extent of the 
differences in definitions of composite end points and assess how these 
differences influence estimates of cardiovascular disease (CVD) burden.
STUDY DESIGN AND SETTINGS: Data from a Dutch cohort study (n = 19,484) was used 
to calculate 10-year risks according to four CVD risk prediction models: Adult 
Treatment Panel (ATP) III, Framingham Global Risk Score (FRS), Pooled Cohort 
Equations (PCE), and SCORE. Health loss was estimated based on the impact of 
event types included in the corresponding composite end points. Finally, each 
prediction model was used to estimate the expected CVD burden in high-risk 
individuals, expressed as Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) lost.
RESULTS: The definition of the composite end points varied widely across the 
four models. FRS predicted the highest CVD risks, and the composite end point 
used in SCORE was associated with the highest health burden. The predicted CVD 
burden in high-risk individuals was 0.23, 0.74, 0.43, and 0.39 QALYs lost per 
individual when using ATP, FRS, PCE, and SCORE, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The investigated CVD risk prediction models showed huge variation in 
definition of composite end points and associated health burden. Therefore, 
health consequences related to predicted risks cannot be readily compared across 
prediction models, and estimates of burden of disease depend crucially on the 
prediction model used.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2017.09.014
PMID: 28943378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Diseases. 2015 Jul 27;3(3):159-166. doi: 10.3390/diseases3030159.

Endovascular Repair of Aortic Dissection in Marfan Syndrome: Current Status and 
Future Perspectives.

Parisi R(1), Secco GG(2), Di Eusanio M(3), Fattori R(4).

Author information:
(1)Cardiology and Interventional Cardiology Unit, AO Ospedali Riuniti Marche 
Nord, Pesaro, Piazzale Cinelli 1, 61121 Pesaro, Italy. 
r.parisi@ospedalimarchenord.it.
(2)Cardiology and Interventional Cardiology Unit, AO Ospedali Riuniti Marche 
Nord, Pesaro, Piazzale Cinelli 1, 61121 Pesaro, Italy. 
gioel.gabrio.secco@gmail.com.
(3)Cardiac Surgery Unit, G. Mazzini Hospital, Piazza Italia 1, 64100 Teramo, 
Italy. marco.dieusanio2@unibo.it.
(4)Cardiology and Interventional Cardiology Unit, AO Ospedali Riuniti Marche 
Nord, Pesaro, Piazzale Cinelli 1, 61121 Pesaro, Italy. 
rossella.fattori@unibo.it.

Over the last decades, improvement of medical and surgical therapy has increased 
life expectancy in Marfan patients. Consequently, the number of such patients 
requiring secondary interventions on the descending thoracic aorta due to new or 
residual dissections, and distal aneurysm formation has substantially enlarged. 
Surgical and endovascular procedures represent two valuable options of 
treatment, both associated with advantages and drawbacks. The aim of the present 
manuscript was to review endovascular outcomes in Marfan syndrome and to assess 
the potential role of Thoracic Endovascular Aortic Repair (TEVAR) in this subset 
of patients.

DOI: 10.3390/diseases3030159
PMCID: PMC5548247
PMID: 28943617

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


300. Intractable Rare Dis Res. 2017 Aug;6(3):191-198. doi:
10.5582/irdr.2017.01043.

Nationwide trends of hospitalizations for cystic fibrosis in the United States 
from 2003 to 2013.

Agrawal A(1), Agarwal A(2), Mehta D(3), Sikachi RR(1)(4), Du D(5), Wang J(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care & Sleep Medicine, Hofstra Northwell 
School of Medicine, New York, NY, United States.
(2)Division of Pulmonary & Critical Care Medicine, Cooper University Hospital, 
Camden, NJ, United States.
(3)Department of Medicine, Westchester Medical Center, Westchester, NY, United 
States.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital & Research 
Center, Pune, India.
(5)Cystic Fibrosis Center, Department of Medicine, Monmouth Medical Center, Long 
Branch, NJ, United States.
(6)Cystic Fibrosis Center, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care & Sleep 
Medicine, Hofstra Northwell School of Medicine, New York, NY, United States.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a multisystem autosomal recessive genetic disorder with 
significant advances in early diagnosis and treatment in the last decade. It is 
important to provide updated information regarding these changing demographics 
as they also reflect a considerable improvement in survival. We analyzed the 
National Inpatient Sample Database (NIS) in the United States for all patients 
in which CF was the primary discharge diagnosis (ICD-9: 277.0-277.09) from 2003 
to 2013 to evaluate the rate of hospitalizations and determine the cost and 
mortality associated with CF along with other epidemiological findings. The 
statistical significance of the difference in the number of hospital discharges, 
lengths of stays and associated hospital costs over the study period was 
calculated. In 2003, there were 8,328 hospital discharges with the principal 
discharge diagnosis of CF in the United States, which increased to 12,590 
discharges in 2013 (p < 0.001). The mean hospital charges increased by 57.64% 
from US$ 60,051 in 2003 to US$ 94,664 in 2013. The aggregate cost of hospital 
visits increased by 138.31% from US$ 500,105,727 to US$ 1,191,819,760. In the 
same time, the mortality decreased by 49.3 %. The number of inpatient discharges 
related to CF has increased from 2003 to 2013. This is due to increased life 
expectancy of CF patients, resulting in increased disease prevalence. There has 
been a significant increase in the mean and aggregate cost associated with CF 
admissions. Over the last decade, many advances have been made in the diagnosis 
and treatment of CF, consequentially leading to a significant transformation in 
the epidemiology and demographics of this chronic disease. Rising hospital costs 
associated with the care of CF patients necessitates future studies analyzing 
the diagnostic modalities, algorithms and treatment practices of physician's 
treating CF patients.

DOI: 10.5582/irdr.2017.01043
PMCID: PMC5608929
PMID: 28944141301. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2017 Oct;12(5):415-423. doi:
10.1007/s11899-017-0404-z.

Chronic Myeloid Leukemia-the Promise of Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor 
Discontinuation.

Narra RK(1), Flynn KE(2), Atallah E(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine, Medical College 
of Wisconsin, 9200 West Wisconsin Avenue, Milwaukee, WI, 53226, USA.
(2)Center for Patient Care and Outcomes Research, Medical College of Wisconsin, 
8701 Watertown Plank Rd, Milwaukee, WI, 53226, USA.
(3)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine, Medical College 
of Wisconsin, 9200 West Wisconsin Avenue, Milwaukee, WI, 53226, USA. 
eatallah@mcw.edu.

Some believe that tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy is as close to perfect 
as it gets in oncologic therapy. Patients diagnosed with chronic myeloid 
leukemia (CML) are treated with a daily oral therapy, through which most achieve 
remission. TKI therapy is not associated with classic chemotherapy side effects, 
and most patients are able to resume their normal activities of daily living. 
Moreover, recent data has demonstrated that CML does not affect the life 
expectancy of patients whose disease is well controlled with a TKI. However, TKI 
therapy is actually not that perfect. Patients need to stay on therapy forever. 
They have to remember to take their medications daily. TKIs are expensive, and 
the financial burden to patient and society cannot be overstated. Most patients' 
health-related quality of life is affected; common side effects include fatigue, 
muscle cramps, pain, edema, skin problems, and gastrointestinal symptoms. In 
addition, concerns about long-term side effects remain. Recently several studies 
have shown the feasibility and safety of discontinuation in a select group of 
patients. Herein, we will review the currently available data on stopping TKIs 
in CML.

DOI: 10.1007/s11899-017-0404-z
PMCID: PMC6045428
PMID: 28944397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Ravi Kishore Narra and 
Kathryn E. Flynn each declare no potential conflicts of interest. Ehab Atallah 
reports personal fees from BMS, personal fees from Novartis, personal fees from 
Pfizer, and personal fees from Ariad outside the submitted work.


302. Clin Transplant. 2017 Dec;31(12). doi: 10.1111/ctr.13124.

Cost-utility analysis of direct ventricular assist device vs double bridges to 
heart transplantation in patients with refractory heart failure.

Chang HH(1)(2)(3), Chen PL(1)(4), Chen IM(1)(4)(5), Kuo TT(1)(4), Weng ZC(6), 
Huang PJ(1), Wu NY(7), Cheng CL(8).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Taipei Veterans 
General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Engineering, National Central 
University, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(4)School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(5)Institute of Clinical Medicine, School of Medicine, National Yang Ming 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(6)Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, Wei-Gong Memorial Hospital, Miaoli, 
Taiwan.
(7)Institute of Biomedical Informatics, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(8)Department of Nursing, National Tainan Institute of Nursing, Tainan, Taiwan.

OBJECT: This study compared the cost-utility of direct ventricular assist device 
(VAD) vs double bridges, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) before VAD, 
to heart transplantation in patients with refractory heart failure.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: From a health payer perspective, a Markov model was 
developed. The cycle length was 1 month, and the time horizon was a lifetime. 
Probabilities and direct cost data were calculated from a nationwide claim 
database. Utility inputs were adopted from published sources. The utility was 
expressed as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Both costs and utility were 
discounted by an annual rate of 3%. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses were performed to test the stability of the model.
RESULTS: The direct VAD group had less lifetime costs (USD 95 910 vs USD 
129 516) but higher lifetime QALYs than the double bridges group (1.73 vs 0.89). 
The sensitivity analysis revealed that the direct VAD group consistently had 
lower cost and higher QALYs during all variations in model parameters. The 
probability that direct VAD was cost-effective exceeded 75% at any levels of 
willing-to-pay.
CONCLUSION: From a health insurance payer perspective, direct VAD bridge to 
heart transplantation appeared to be more cost-effective than double bridges in 
patients with refractory heart failure.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ctr.13124
PMID: 28944511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2017 Oct;23(10):1010-1015. doi: 
10.18553/jmcp.2017.23.10.1010.

Using Performance-Based Risk-Sharing Arrangements to Address Uncertainty in 
Indication-Based Pricing.

Yeung K(1), Li M(2), Carlson JJ(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Kaiser Permanente Washington Health Research Institute, Seattle, and 
Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research and Policy Program, University of Washington, 
Seattle.
(2)2 Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research and Policy Program, University of 
Washington School of Pharmacy, Seattle.

BACKGROUND: The rise in pharmaceutical expenditures in recent years has 
increased health care payer interest in ensuring good value for the money. 
Indication-based pricing (IBP) sets separate, indication-specific prices paid to 
the manufacturer according to the expected efficacy of a drug in each of its 
indications. IBP allows payers to consistently pay for value across indications. 
While promising, a limitation of IBP as originally conceived is that efficacy 
estimates are typically based on clinical trial data, which may differ from 
real-world effectiveness. An outcomes guarantee is a type of performance-based 
risk-sharing arrangement that adjusts payments according to prospectively 
tracked outcomes. We suggest that an outcomes guarantee contract, which has been 
used by some payers, may be adapted to achieve indication-based prices supported 
by real-world effectiveness.
OBJECTIVE: To illustrate the potential of an outcomes guarantee to achieve 
indication-based prices aligned with real-world value, using a case study of 
trastuzumab for the treatment of metastatic breast and advanced gastric cancers.
METHODS: We estimated costs and outcomes under traditional IBP (i.e., expected 
value IBP) and outcomes guarantee frameworks and calculated incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) comparing treatment with and without 
trastuzumab. Efficacy data came from pivotal trials, whereas effectiveness data 
came from observational studies. We adjusted trastuzumab prices in order to 
achieve target ICERs of $150,000 per quality-adjusted life-year under each 
framework and for each indication.
RESULTS: To achieve the ICER target under traditional IBP, the unit price of 
trastuzumab using efficacy evidence was adjusted for metastatic breast and 
advanced gastric cancers from an average sales price of $9.17 per mg to $3.50 
per mg and $0.93 per mg, respectively. Under an outcomes guarantee, the unit 
price of trastuzumab using effectiveness evidence was adjusted for metastatic 
