proposals ($156,967). An odds ratio indicating higher ICERs have a lower 
probability of being funded was also found to be statistically significant (p < 
.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Economic evidence appears to play a role in British Columbia cancer 
funding decisions from 1998 to 2008; other decision-making criteria may also 
have an important role in recommendations and subsequent funding decisions.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462317000642
PMID: 28871898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. J Clin Neurophysiol. 2017 Sep;34(5):456-460. doi:
10.1097/WNP.0000000000000399.

Amplitude-Integrated EEG and Brain Sparing in Preterm Small-for-Gestational-Age 
Infants.

Benavente-Fernández I(1), Lubián-López SP, Zafra-Rodríguez P, Alonso-Ojembarrena 
A, Segado-Arenas A, Lechuga-Sancho AM.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Neonatology, "Puerta del Mar" University Hospital, Cadiz, 
Spain;†Nene Foundation Neonatology, Madrid, Spain; and‡Department of Pediatric, 
"Puerta del Mar" University Hospital, Cadiz, Spain.

PURPOSE: Preterm small-for-gestational-age (SGA) infants are at risk for a high 
mortality rate and impaired cognitive development. Only a few studies have 
focused on amplitude-integrated EEG (aEEG) in preterm SGA infants. They have 
been shown to have a slower rate of brain maturation, but these findings have 
not consistently been related to neurodevelopmental outcomes. The aim of our 
study was to evaluate early aEEG monitoring in SGA compared with 
adequate-for-gestational-age preterms.
METHODS: This prospective cohort study enrolled infants with very low birth 
weight who were admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit at Hospital Puerta 
del Mar, Cádiz, Spain, from June 2009 to September 2012. This study was a 
subanalysis of SGA from the global cohort previously described by our group. 
Adverse outcome included severe intraventricular hemorrhage and/or death. 
Cerebral function was monitored using aEEG recordings during the first 72 hours 
of life.
RESULTS: Preterm SGA infants (18 SGA in the global cohort of 92 patients) had 
lower 1- and 5-minute Apgar scores, higher score for neonatal acute physiology 
perinatal extension II scores, and higher proportion of adverse outcomes. When 
comparing preterm adequate-for-gestational-age infants with SGA infants with 
good prognosis, those with SGA had more mature and continuous aEEG patterns. Low 
margin amplitude depression was not as severe in these patients, and a higher 
proportion of these patients developed sleep-wake cycles.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study suggest that SGA infants with a good 
prognosis have a more mature aEEG pattern than preterm 
adequate-for-gestational-age patients with the same outcome. These findings 
support the brain sparing theory in SGA infants.

DOI: 10.1097/WNP.0000000000000399
PMID: 28873072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Colorectal Dis. 2017 Oct;19(10):O358-O364. doi: 10.1111/codi.13876.

Administration of adjuvant chemotherapy in older patients with Stage III colon 
cancer: an observational study.

van den Broek CBM(1), Puylaert CCEM(1), Breugom AJ(1), Bastiaannet E(1)(2), de 
Craen AJM(2), van de Velde CJH(1), Liefers GJ(1), Portielje JEA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Gerontology and Geriatrics, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Clinical Oncology, HAGA Hospital, The Hague, The Netherlands.

AIM: According to established guidelines, patients with Stage III colon cancer 
should receive adjuvant chemotherapy. However, a significant proportion do not. 
This study assessed factors associated with the administration of adjuvant 
chemotherapy and causes of death.
METHODS: Patients with Stage III colon cancer who underwent surgery between 2000 
and 2009 were selected from two hospitals in the Netherlands. Patient 
characteristics including comorbidities and treatment preferences, tumour 
characteristics and follow-up were extracted from the medical records. The 
patient and tumour characteristics of patients who did receive chemotherapy were 
compared with those who did not using chi-squared analysis. Differences between 
the groups in causes of death were recorded together with the duration of 
follow-up.
RESULTS: A total of 348 patients were included. The median age was 73 years 
(range 33-93). Over half of the patients received adjuvant chemotherapy (50.6%). 
Patients who did not receive adjuvant chemotherapy were significantly older 
(P < 0.001), had more comorbidities (P < 0.001) and were more often living alone 
(P < 0.001). Patients who received no adjuvant chemotherapy had a reduced 
overall survival, and the cause of death was more often attributed to other 
causes (60%) than colon cancer (40%). For patients who received chemotherapy, 
the cause of death was usually attributed to colon cancer (71%).
CONCLUSION: Patients who did not receive adjuvant chemotherapy had a worse 
overall survival and the majority died due to other causes than colon cancer. In 
our aging society it will become even more important to develop tools to 
estimate remaining life expectancy in order to improve the selection of older 
patients for adjuvant treatments.

Colorectal Disease © 2017 The Association of Coloproctology of Great Britain and 
Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/codi.13876
PMID: 28873267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. RNA Biol. 2018 Jan 2;15(1):62-69. doi: 10.1080/15476286.2017.1373239. Epub
2017  Sep 26.

Mitochondrial mutations in human cancer: Curation of translation.

Caudron-Herger M(1), Diederichs S(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)a Division of RNA Biology & Cancer , German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ) , 
Heidelberg , Germany.
(2)b Faculty of Medicine , University of Freiburg , Freiburg , Germany.
(3)c German Cancer Consortium (DKTK) , Freiburg , Germany.
(4)d Division of Cancer Research, Dept. of Thoracic Surgery , Medical Center - 
University of Freiburg , Freiburg , Germany.

As a genetic disease, cancer is caused by the activation of oncogenes and the 
inhibition of tumor suppressor genes via genetic and epigenetic mechanisms. 
Given the important role of energy metabolism in tumors, we analyzed the 
cancer-derived mutations occurring in the DNA of the mitochondrion. Mutations in 
the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) compared to nuclear DNA are 62% decreased relative 
to the coding length per chromosome. We find that the majority of these 
mutations affects highly conserved nucleotides - significantly exceeding the 
conservation of the mtDNA - and are devoid of single nucleotide polymorphisms 
(SNPs). Surprisingly, the leading resources for tumor genetics information 
universally use the standard genetic code for translation of nucleotide into 
amino acid sequences in their online resources. However, the nuclear and 
mitochondrial genetic codes differ for four codons and the usage of incomplete 
STOP codons. Hence, we analyze and curate the consequences for all mutations in 
the mtDNA and comprehensively reclassify missense, nonsense and synonymous 
mutations accordingly. In total, 10% of the mutations are incorrectly translated 
leading to significant changes in the distribution of mutation types with 
tripling of nonsense and 69% loss of nonstop extension mutations. Lastly, we 
provide a curated dataset of coding and non-coding mitochondrial mutations in 
cancer merged, standardized, duplicate-free and aggregated from two databases as 
a resource including orthogonal data on their high conservation and SNPs. This 
study generally highlights the need to universally regard the important 
differences between the standard and mitochondrial genetic code in life science 
research.

DOI: 10.1080/15476286.2017.1373239
PMCID: PMC5785980
PMID: 28873329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2017 Jul 1;32(7):1251-1259. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfx074.

Immunosuppressive agents in adult kidney transplantation in the National Health 
Service: a model-based economic evaluation.

Snowsill TM(1), Moore J(2), Mujica Mota RE(1), Peters JL(1), Jones-Hughes TL(1), 
Huxley NJ(1), Coelho HF(1), Haasova M(1), Cooper C(1), Lowe JA(1), 
Varley-Campbell JL(1), Crathorne L(1), Allwood MJ(1), Anderson R(1).

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Technology Assessment Group (PenTAG), University of Exeter, Exeter, 
UK.
(2)Exeter Kidney Unit, Royal Devon and Exeter NHS Foundation Trust, Exeter, UK.

BACKGROUND: Immunosuppression is required in kidney transplantation to prevent 
rejection and prolong graft survival. We conducted an economic evaluation to 
support England's National Institute for Health and Care Excellence in 
developing updated guidance on the use of immunosuppression, incorporating new 
immunosuppressive agents, and addressing changes in pricing and the evidence 
base.
METHODS: A discrete-time state transition model was developed to simulate adult 
kidney transplant patients over their lifetime. A total of 16 different regimens 
were modelled to assess the cost-effectiveness of basiliximab and rabbit 
anti-thymocyte globulin (rabbit ATG) as induction agents (with no antibody 
induction as a comparator) and immediate-release tacrolimus, prolonged-release 
tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil, mycophenolate sodium, sirolimus, everolimus 
and belatacept as maintenance agents (with ciclosporin and azathioprine as 
comparators). Graft survival was extrapolated from acute rejection rates, graft 
function and post-transplant diabetes rates, all estimated at 12 months 
post-transplantation. National Health Service (NHS) and personal social services 
costs were included. Cost-effectiveness thresholds of £20 000 and £30 000 per 
quality-adjusted life year were used.
RESULTS: Basiliximab was predicted to be more effective and less costly than 
rabbit ATG and induction without antibodies. Immediate-release tacrolimus and 
mycophenolate mofetil were cost-effective as maintenance therapies. Other 
therapies were either more expensive and less effective or would only be 
cost-effective if a threshold in excess of £100 000 per quality-adjusted life 
year were used.
CONCLUSIONS: A regimen comprising induction with basiliximab, followed by 
maintenance therapy with immediate-release tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil, 
is likely to be effective for uncomplicated adult kidney transplant patients and 
a cost-effective use of NHS resources.

© Crown copyright 2017.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfx074
PMCID: PMC5837729
PMID: 28873970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Allergy Asthma Proc. 2017 Nov 5;38(6):456-461. doi: 10.2500/aap.2017.38.4088.
 Epub 2017 Sep 5.

Efficacy of recombinant human C1 esterase inhibitor for the treatment of severe 
hereditary angioedema attacks.

Li HH, Reshef A, Baker JW, Harper JR, Relan A.

BACKGROUND: Severe attacks of hereditary angioedema (HAE) are debilitating and 
potentially life threatening, and can increase anxiety and the use of medical 
resources.
OBJECTIVE: This post hoc assessment evaluated recombinant human C1 esterase 
inhibitor (rhC1-INH) used to treat acute severe HAE attacks.
METHODS: In a double-blind, randomized-controlled trial (RCT), patients with an 
HAE attack (baseline visual analog scale score of ≥50 mm, with severe attacks 
defined as ≥75 mm) were randomly assigned to receive rhC1-INH (50 IU/kg for 
patients who weighed <84 kg; 4200 IU for patients who weighed ≥84 kg) or 
placebo. Also, in an open-label extension (OLE) study of rhC1-INH, 
oropharyngeal-laryngeal attacks were analyzed. Rescue therapy with rhC1-INH 50 
IU/kg (≤4200 IU) was permitted after 4 hours or for life-threatening symptoms 
(in the RCT) or after 1 hour (in the OLE study). The primary end point measured 
the time to the beginning of symptom relief by using the Treatment Effects 
Questionnaire.
RESULTS: Of 75 adults in the RCT, 43 had severe attacks and received either 
rhC1-INH (n = 24) or placebo (n = 19). The median (95% confidence interval) time 
to the onset of symptom relief totaled 90.0 minutes (95% confidence interval, 
47.0-120.0 minutes) versus 334.0 minutes (95% confidence interval, 105.0 to not 
calculable minutes; hazard ratio, 2.5; p = 0.02), for rhC1-INH and placebo, 
respectively. Open-label rhC1-INH rescue therapy was administered to 1 of 24 in 
the rhC1-INH group (4.2%) and 10 of 19 in the placebo group (52.6%). During the 
OLE study, the median onset of symptom relief with rhC1-INH for eight 
oropharyngeal-laryngeal HAE attacks was 69.0 minutes (95% confidence interval, 
59.0-91.0 minutes).
CONCLUSION: In the current study, rhC1-INH was efficacious in resolving severe 
HAE attacks, including oropharyngeal-laryngeal attacks. The rhC1-INH rescue 
treatment rapidly improved symptoms for patients who received placebo and who 
experienced worsening or sustained symptoms.

DOI: 10.2500/aap.2017.38.4088
PMID: 28874235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Ugeskr Laeger. 2017 Sep 4;179(36):V05170420.

[The significance of HIV to bone mineral density].

[Article in Danish]

Wessman M(1), Weis N, Katzenstein TL, Lebech AM, Thorsteinsson K, Hansen AE, 
Jensen JB.

Author information:
(1)maria.krystyna.jakowlew.wessman@regionh.dk.

The life expectancy in well-treated HIV-infected persons approaches that of the 
general population, but HIV-infected persons have a greater incidence of 
fractures and osteoporosis. A decrease in bone mineral density is observed 
primarily during the first 1-2 years of antiretroviral therapy. Dual X-ray 
absorptiometry scan should be considered in HIV-infected men ≥ 50 years and 
postmenopausal women. In case of osteoporosis, bisphosphonate treatment should 
follow guidelines for the general population. Future research should focus on 
pathogenesis and prevention of bone density loss in HIV.

PMID: 28874254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2017 Sep 19;114(38):10184-10189. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1710776114. Epub 2017 Sep 5.

Localized CD47 blockade enhances immunotherapy for murine melanoma.

Ingram JR(1)(2), Blomberg OS(1), Sockolosky JT(3)(4), Ali L(2), Schmidt FI(1), 
Pishesha N(1), Espinosa C(1), Dougan SK(2), Garcia KC(3)(4)(5), Ploegh HL(6), 
Dougan M(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, Cambridge, MA 02142.
(2)Department of Cancer Immunology and Virology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 
Boston, MA 02115.
(3)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305.
(4)Department of Structural Biology, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, CA 94305.
(5)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, CA 94305.
(6)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, Cambridge, MA 02142; hidde.ploegh@childrens.harvard.edu 
mldougan@partners.org.
(7)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, MA 02114.

CD47 is an antiphagocytic ligand broadly expressed on normal and malignant 
tissues that delivers an inhibitory signal through the receptor signal 
regulatory protein alpha (SIRPα). Inhibitors of the CD47-SIRPα interaction 
improve antitumor antibody responses by enhancing antibody-dependent cellular 
phagocytosis (ADCP) in xenograft models. Endogenous expression of CD47 on a 
variety of cell types, including erythrocytes, creates a formidable antigen sink 
that may limit the efficacy of CD47-targeting therapies. We generated a 
nanobody, A4, that blocks the CD47-SIRPα interaction. A4 synergizes with 
anti-PD-L1, but not anti-CTLA4, therapy in the syngeneic B16F10 melanoma model. 
Neither increased dosing nor half-life extension by fusion of A4 to IgG2a Fc 
(A4Fc) overcame the issue of an antigen sink or, in the case of A4Fc, systemic 
toxicity. Generation of a B16F10 cell line that secretes the A4 nanobody showed 
that an enhanced response to several immune therapies requires near-complete 
blockade of CD47 in the tumor microenvironment. Thus, strategies to localize 
CD47 blockade to tumors may be particularly valuable for immune therapy.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1710776114
PMCID: PMC5617302
PMID: 28874561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: K.C.G. is a 
cofounder of Alexo, a biotechnology company focused on the clinical translation 
of anti-human CD47 antagonists.


101. Case Rep Orthop. 2017;2017:6912706. doi: 10.1155/2017/6912706. Epub 2017 Aug
10.

The Training Effect of Early Intervention with a Hybrid Assistive Limb after 
Total Knee Arthroplasty.

Fukaya T(1), Mutsuzaki H(2), Yoshikawa K(3), Sano A(3), Mizukami M(4), Yamazaki 
M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, Tsukuba 
International University, 6-8-33 Manabe, Tsuchiura, Ibaraki 300-0051, Japan.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Ibaraki Prefectural University of Health 
Sciences, 4669-2 Ami, Ami-machi, Inashiki-gun, Ibaraki 300-0394, Japan.
(3)Department of Physical Therapy, Ibaraki Prefectural University of Health 
Sciences Hospital, 4773 Ami, Ami-machi, Inashiki-gun, Ibaraki 300-0331, Japan.
(4)Department of Physical Therapy, Ibaraki Prefectural University of Health 
Sciences, 4669-2 Ami, Ami-machi, Inashiki-gun, Ibaraki 300-0394, Japan.
(5)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 Tennodai, 
Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8575, Japan.

After total knee arthroplasty (TKA), it is important for patients to show early 
improvements in knee joint function and walking to regain independence in 
performing the activities of daily life. We conducted for 4 weeks an 
intervention one week after TKA using a hybrid assistive limb (HAL: unilateral 
leg type) as an exoskeleton robotic device to facilitate knee joint function and 
walking. The intervention improved the range of knee extension movement safely 
and without pain compared to preoperation. In addition, we found that training 
with the HAL improved walking ability, speed, and rate, as well as the time 
taken to perform the timed up and go (TUG) test compared to preoperation. The 
strength of the quadriceps muscle did not improve with training; however, the 
patient was able to induce a knee extensor moment during the initial stance 
phase, as measured by kinetics and kinematics, and these actions could be 
performed without pain. HAL training soon after TKA improved knee joint function 
in a 76-year-old patient who presented with OA of the knee. The improvements in 
knee extension lag and knee extensor moment allowed the patient to walk without 
pain and regain ADL in comparison with preoperation.

DOI: 10.1155/2017/6912706
PMCID: PMC5569870
PMID: 28875045


102. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2017 Nov;65(11):2539-2544. doi: 10.1111/jgs.15035. Epub
2017  Sep 5.

Cancer Screening of Older Adults in Israel According to Life Expectancy: Cross 
Sectional Study.

Bareket R(1)(2), Schonberg MA(3), Comaneshter D(1), Schonmann Y(1)(2), Shani 
M(1)(2), Cohen A(1)(4), Vinker S(2).

Author information:
(1)Quality Indicators and Research Department, Chief Physician Office, Clalit 
Health Services, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(2)Department of Family Medicine, Sackler School of Medicine, Tel Aviv 
University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(3)Division of General Medicine and Primary Care, Department of Medicine, 
Harvard Medical School, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(4)Siaal Research Center for Family Medicine and Primary Care, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheba, Israel.

OBJECTIVES: To examine over-screening of older Israelis for colon and breast 
cancer.
DESIGN: Cross sectional.
SETTING: Clalit Health Services (CHS), Israel's largest health maintenance 
organization (HMO), provides care for more than half of the country's population 
and operates a national age-based programs for cancer screening.
PARTICIPANTS: All community-dwelling members aged 65 to 79 in 2014 
(N = 370,876).
MEASUREMENTS: We used CHS data warehouse to evaluate cancer screening during 
2014. Life expectancy (LE) was estimated using the validated Schonberg index.
RESULTS: Almost one-quarter (23.1%; 15.6% of adults aged 65-74, 42.7% of adults 
aged 75-79) of the study population had an estimated LE of less than 10 years. 
Annual fecal occult blood test and biannual mammography rates among adults aged 
65 to 74 with a LE of 10 years or longer were 37.1% and 70.0%, respectively. 
Rates dropped after age 75 (4.0%, 19.5%) and to a lesser extent with a LE of 
less than 10 years (31.6%, 56.4%). Prostate-specific antigen testing is not part 
of the national screening program, and the proportion of people tested (42.6%), 
did not vary similarly with age of 75 and older (43.2%) or LE of less than 
10 years (38.1%).
CONCLUSION: The cancer screening inclusion criteria of the national referral 
system have a strong effect on receipt of screening; LE considerations are less 
influential. Some method of estimating LE could be incorporated into algorithms 
to improve individualized cancer screening to reduce over- and underscreening of 
older adults.

© 2017, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2017, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.15035
PMCID: PMC5734912
PMID: 28875497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors have no 
conflicts


103. J Appl Res Intellect Disabil. 2017 Nov;30(6):1138-1150. doi:
10.1111/jar.12412.  Epub 2017 Sep 5.

People with intellectual disabilities at the end of their lives: The case for 
specialist care?

Forrester-Jones R(1), Beecham JK(2), Barnoux M(1), Oliver D(1), Couch E(1), 
Bates C(1).

Author information:
(1)The Tizard Centre, University of Kent, Canterbury, UK.
(2)PSSRU, University of Kent, Canterbury, UK.

BACKGROUND: People with intellectual disabilities have a shorter life 
expectancy, but healthcare improvements mean that they are beginning to live 
longer, with associated health difficulties. This means that there is an urgent 
need to focus research on ageing as well as end-of-life care. This study aimed 
to explore a specialist intellectual disability service for older people who are 
dying and how it related to their quality of life and to costs associated with 
care provided.
METHOD: Data were collected for nine residents and 15 staff members of the 
specialist service. A single case study design with mixed methods including 
observations, interviews, standardized questionnaires and costs analysis was 
utilized.
RESULTS: We found positive results regarding overall quality of life, although 
individuals had limited social networks. Placement fees paid by local health 
trusts and social services departments were slightly higher than the estimated 
cost of care reflecting good financial management by a small voluntary sector 
organization.
CONCLUSION: Whilst the philosophical arguments around "specialist" care persist, 
this service fills a gap in intellectual disability care provision.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jar.12412
PMID: 28875573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Zhongguo Zhong Yao Za Zhi. 2016 Mar;41(6):1144-1151. doi:
10.4268/cjcmm20160629.

[Anti-aging traditional Chinese medicine： potential mechanisms involving AMPK 
pathway and calorie restriction based on "medicine-food homology" theory].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu DY(1)(2), Li YH(1)(2), Xu YT(3)(2), Zhu Y(3)(2).

Author information:
(1)Tianjin University of Science & Technology, Tianjin 300457, China.
(2)Center for Research and Development of Chinese Medicine, Tianjin 
International Joint Academy of Biotechnology & Medicine, Tianjin 300457, China.
(3)Tianjin State Key Laboratory of Modern Chinese Medicine, Tianjin University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin 300457, China.

There have been many reports about the anti-aging effect of traditional Chinese 
medicine (TCM), but the material basis and mechanism of action have not been 
clearly elucidated. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is the receptor of 
energy metabolism and its life extending effect has been confirmed in different 
experiments. Over expression or activation with metform in of AAK-2/AMPK has 
been shown to extend life expectancy in nematodes and Drosophila. The possible 
downstream pathways of AMPK against aging include TOR/S6k pathway, FOXOs pathway 
and CRTC pathway. One of the core concepts of traditional Chinese medicine is 
disease prevention, for which one of manifestations is to improve the body with 
the same source of medicine and food to achieve longevity. It is possible to 
activate AMPK to achieve the goal of health preservation and prolonging the life 
by some of the "medicine-food harmony" treatments. Our survey finds that in 
"medicine-food harmony" compound TCM, "invigorating the kidney deficiency and 
promoting blood circulation" class dominates and Salviae Miltiorrhizae Radix 
Rhizoma, Astragali Radix, Coptidis Rhizoma, Poria, Atractylodes Macrocephalae 
Rhizoma, Radix et Rhizoma Rhei, and Ginseng Radix et Rhizoma are used in high 
frequency. Network pharmacology analysis using ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA) 
software revealed that TCM-derived drugs interacting with AMPK target proteins 
included berberine, emodin, curcumin, resveratrol, alcohol, cordyceps, arctiin, 
suggesting in a certain extent the feasibility of "medicine -food homology" 
drugs to extend the lifespan through the AMPK pathway. Our study combines a 
comprehensive database query and an IPA network pharmacology analysis to 
identify Chinese medicine monomer and components that may activate AMPK pathway 
to delay aging and to discuss the potential of these medicine by improving 
energy metabolism to delay the aging process, based on the concept of 
traditional Chinese medicine "medicine-food homology".

Copyright© by the Chinese Pharmaceutical Association.

DOI: 10.4268/cjcmm20160629
PMID: 28875685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this article and the planning 
committee members and staff have no relevant financial relationships with 
commercial interests to disclose.


105. S Afr Med J. 2017 Aug 25;107(9):797-804. doi:
10.7196/SAMJ.2017.v107i9.12168.

Age-group differences in risk perceptions of non-communicable diseases among 
adults in Diepsloot township, Johannesburg, South Africa: A cross-sectional 
study based on the Health Belief Model.

Kaba Z(1), Khamisa N, Tshuma N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, School of Health Sciences, Monash South Africa, 
Johannesburg, South Africa. kaba.zahra@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in South Africa (SA) occur 
simultaneously with an ageing HIV-positive population, resulting in premature 
deaths in persons &lt;70 years of age. Poor risk perception of NCDs results in 
poor adoption practices of NCD preventive measures. There is a gap in 
age-related research regarding risk perceptions of NCDs among the SA population.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate age-group differences in risk perceptions of NCDs 
based on the Health Belief Model.
METHODS: This cross-sectional design used secondary data obtained from Community 
AIDS Response (CARe), Johannesburg, SA. Data were collected by means of a 
cross-sectional survey in Extension 2 (Blocks I, J, K and L) of Diepsloot 
township, Johannesburg, SA. The Pearson χ2 test of independence was used to 
examine the relationship between age groups and risk perceptions of NCDs. A 
p&lt;0.05 value was considered statistically significant.
RESULTS: A total of 2 135 participants were included in the analysis, of whom 
71.5% were young adults (18 - 35 years). The mean age of the study participants 
was 32.1 (standard deviation 9.87) years. Significant associations were found 
between age groups and risk perceptions of NCDs. More middle-aged adults than 
young adults and older-aged adults perceived family history (74.00% v. 72.74% v. 
62.39%, p=0.045) and smoking (83.80% v. 77.20% v. 74.31%, p=0.004) as risk 
factors that would increase their risk of NCDs. A higher proportion of 
older-aged adults than young adults and middle-aged adults perceived effects on 
life and family (89.91% v. 77.39% v. 75.40%, p=0.004) as risks of NCD 
morbidities. More middle-aged adults than young adults and older-aged adults 
perceived the usefulness of not smoking (84.60% v. 81.06% v. 74.31%, p=0.028) as 
an effective NCD preventive measure. More young adults than middle-aged and 
older-aged adults considered health check-ups (59.31% v. 58.00% v. 41.28%, 
p=0.001) as a time-consuming process to prevent risks of NCDs.
CONCLUSION: Young adults had poorer risk perceptions of NCDs than middle-aged 
and older-aged adults in Diepsloot township, resulting in poor practice of NCD 
preventive measures among young adults in the area. This may be due to the 
misunderstanding of the concept of invulnerability, possibly resulting from the 
limited access and exposure to NCD-related information among young adults 
compared with middle-aged and older-aged groups. This highlights the need to 
expand public health education programmes to increase outreach to the young 
adult population and increase accessibility to information relating to NCD 
risks, and encourage adoption of NCD preventive measures.

DOI: 10.7196/SAMJ.2017.v107i9.12168
PMID: 28875891


106. Chem Commun (Camb). 2017 Sep 19;53(75):10394-10397. doi: 10.1039/c7cc05794f.

Direct diversification of unmasked quinazolin-4(3H)-ones through orthogonal 
reactivity modulation.

Lee JB(1), Kang ME(1), Kim J(2), Lee CY(1), Kee JM(3), Myung K(4), Park JU(2), 
Hong SY(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Energy and Chemical Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of 
Science and Technology (UNIST), 50 UNIST-gil, Ulsan 44919, Republic of Korea. 
syhong@unist.ac.kr.
(2)School of Materials Science and Engineering, UNIST, 50 UNIST-gil, Ulsan 
44919, Republic of Korea. jangung@unist.ac.kr.
(3)Department of Chemistry, UNIST, 50 UNIST-gil, Ulsan 44919, Republic of Korea.
(4)Center for Genomic Integrity (CGI), Institute for Basic Science (IBS), School 
of Life Science, UNIST, 50 UNIST-gil, Ulsan 44919, Republic of Korea.
(5)School of Energy and Chemical Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of 
Science and Technology (UNIST), 50 UNIST-gil, Ulsan 44919, Republic of Korea. 
syhong@unist.ac.kr and Center for Genomic Integrity (CGI), Institute for Basic 
Science (IBS), School of Life Science, UNIST, 50 UNIST-gil, Ulsan 44919, 
Republic of Korea.

Here we report a set of direct functionalization methods of unmasked 
2-phenylquinazolin-4(3H)-ones, a privileged alkaloid core, without the 
installation/removal event of protecting groups or exogenous coordinating 
moieties. Divergent pathways were modulated with transition-metal catalysts by 
suppressing competitive reactivities, leading to N-arylation, annulative 
π-extension, or C-H fluorination.

DOI: 10.1039/c7cc05794f
PMID: 28876024


107. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2017 May 25;33(5):766-774. doi: 
10.13345/j.cjb.160444.

[Breeding of peanut variety Yuhua 4 by in vitro mutagenesis].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Li G(1), Wang X(1), Yin X(2), Hu X(3), Chen J(3), Qiao L(1), Sui J(1), Wang 
J(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Qingdao Agricultural University, Qingdao 266109, 
Shandong, China.
(2)The Agricultural Technology Extension Station of Shandong Province, Ji'nan 
250013, Shandong, China.
(3)Peanut Research Institute, Shandong Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Qingdao 
266110, Shandong, China.

The embryonic leaflets of peanut (Arachis hypogaea) variety Huayu 20 were used 
as explants and pingyangmycin as a mutagen to induce somatic embryos. Four weeks 
after the inoculation, the survived explants were transferred to somatic embryo 
germination medium containing screening reagent hydroxyproline, and finally 15 
regenerated plants were obtained. Pedigree breeding method was used during the 
following selection breeding, and three lines with significantly increased yield 
and 23 lines with high oil content were obtained from these mutant offsprings. 
The line with both high yield and high oil content has passed peanut variety 
multi-location in Anhui province and was named "Yuhua 4". Its yield was 16.63% 
higher than that of the control variety Baisha 1016, ranking the first in all 
the testing varieties. Yuhua 4 showed the characteristics of early maturity, 
small pod and high oil content. The oil content of kernels was 56.10%, higher 
than that of original parent Huayu 20 with 49.50% oil content, tested by the 
Ministry of Agriculture of Oil and Products Quality Supervision, Inspection and 
Test Center (Wuhan), and the yield was 15% higher than that of Huayu 20. It was 
concluded that in vitro mutagenesis and target screening was an effective way on 
creating new germplasm and breeding new variety in peanut.

Publisher: 为了丰富花生遗传资源，开拓新的育种方法，本研究对离体诱变创造花生新种质、培育花生新品种进行了研究。利用花生品种花育20 
号胚小叶作为外植体，平阳霉素 (PYM) 作为诱变剂进行离体诱变培养，然后在含有羟脯氨酸 (HYP) 的培养基上进行定向筛选，最终获得了15 
个再生小苗。再生小苗经嫁接移栽田间，从后代中获得了23 个高油株系，3 个产量显著提高的品系，其中一个高产高油品系2015 
年通过了安徽省新品种登记鉴定，定名为宇花4 号，在参试的品种中名列第一，比对照白沙1016 增产16.63%。宇花4 
号为早熟、小粒、高油花生品种，经农业部油料及制品质量监督检验测试中心 (武汉) 化验，籽仁含油率达56.10%，达到高油标准，比诱变亲本花育20 号 
(含油率49.50%) 高6.6 个百分点，荚果产量比花育20 
号增产15%以上。本研究结果表明，离体诱变结合离体定向筛选是创造花生新种质、培育新品种的有效途径。.

DOI: 10.13345/j.cjb.160444
PMID: 28876031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. BMJ Open. 2017 Sep 5;7(9):e018181. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-018181.

Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a cardiovascular risk prediction 
algorithm for people with severe mental illness (PRIMROSE).

Zomer E(1)(2), Osborn D(3)(4), Nazareth I(2), Blackburn R(3), Burton A(3), 
Hardoon S(2), Holt RIG(5), King M(3), Marston L(2), Morris S(6), Omar R(7), 
Petersen I(2), Walters K(2), Hunter RM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
Nursing and Health Sciences, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.
(2)Department of Primary Care and Population Health, Faculty of Population 
Health Sciences, University College London, London, UK.
(3)Division of Psychiatry, Faculty of Brain Sciences, University College London, 
London, UK.
(4)Camden and Islington National Health Service Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(5)Human Development and Health Academic Unit, Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(6)Department of Applied Health Research, Faculty of Population Health Sciences, 
University College London, London, UK.
(7)Department of Statistical Science, Faculty of Mathematical and Physical 
Sciences, University College London, London, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the cost-effectiveness of two bespoke severe mental 
illness (SMI)-specific risk algorithms compared with standard risk algorithms 
for primary cardiovascular disease (CVD) prevention in those with SMI.
SETTING: Primary care setting in the UK. The analysis was from the National 
Health Service perspective.
PARTICIPANTS: 1000 individuals with SMI from The Health Improvement Network 
Database, aged 30-74 years and without existing CVD, populated the model.
INTERVENTIONS: Four cardiovascular risk algorithms were assessed: (1) general 
population lipid, (2) general population body mass index (BMI), (3) SMI-specific 
lipid and (4) SMI-specific BMI, compared against no algorithm. At baseline, each 
cardiovascular risk algorithm was applied and those considered high risk (> 10%) 
were assumed to be prescribed statin therapy while others received usual care.
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and 
costs were accrued for each algorithm including no algorithm, and 
cost-effectiveness was calculated using the net monetary benefit (NMB) approach. 
Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed to test 
assumptions made and uncertainty around parameter estimates.
RESULTS: The SMI-specific BMI algorithm had the highest NMB resulting in 15 
additional QALYs and a cost saving of approximately £53 000 per 1000 patients 
with SMI over 10 years, followed by the general population lipid algorithm (13 
additional QALYs and a cost saving of £46 000).
CONCLUSIONS: The general population lipid and SMI-specific BMI algorithms 
performed equally well. The ease and acceptability of use of an SMI-specific BMI 
algorithm (blood tests not required) makes it an attractive algorithm to 
implement in clinical settings.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2017. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-018181
PMCID: PMC5588956
PMID: 28877952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


109. Nutrients. 2017 Sep 6;9(9):983. doi: 10.3390/nu9090983.

Modelled Cost-Effectiveness of a Package Size Cap and a Kilojoule Reduction 
Intervention to Reduce Energy Intake from Sugar-Sweetened Beverages in 
Australia.

Crino M(1)(2), Herrera AMM(3), Ananthapavan J(4), Wu JHY(5), Neal B(6)(7)(8), 
Lee YY(9)(10), Zheng M(11), Lal A(12), Sacks G(13).

Author information:
(1)The George Institute for Global Health, University of New South Wales, Sydney 
2042, Australia. mcrino@georgeinstitute.org.au.
(2)School of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, The University of Sydney, 
Sydney 2042, Australia. mcrino@georgeinstitute.org.au.
(3)School of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, University of Queensland, 
Brisbane 4001, Australia. ana.mantillaherrera@uqconnect.edu.au.
(4)Deakin Health Economics, Centre for Population Health Research, Deakin 
University, Geelong 3220, Australia. jaithri.ananthapavan@deakin.edu.au.
(5)The George Institute for Global Health, University of New South Wales, Sydney 
2042, Australia. jwu1@georgeinstitute.org.au.
(6)The George Institute for Global Health, University of New South Wales, Sydney 
2042, Australia. bneal@georgeinstitute.org.au.
(7)The Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney 2042, Australia. 
bneal@georgeinstitute.org.au.
(8)School of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College, SW7 2AZ 
London, UK. bneal@georgeinstitute.org.au.
(9)School of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, University of Queensland, 
Brisbane 4001, Australia. y.lee5@uq.edu.au.
(10)Queensland Centre for Mental Health Research (QCMHR), The Park Centre for 
Mental Health, Wacol 4076, Australia. y.lee5@uq.edu.au.
(11)Global Obesity Centre, Centre for Population Health Research, Deakin 
University, Geelong 3220, Australia. j.zheng@deakin.edu.au.
(12)Deakin Health Economics, Centre for Population Health Research, Deakin 
University, Geelong 3220, Australia. anita.lal@deakin.edu.au.
(13)Global Obesity Centre, Centre for Population Health Research, Deakin 
University, Geelong 3220, Australia. gary.sacks@deakin.edu.au.

Interventions targeting portion size and energy density of food and beverage 
products have been identified as a promising approach for obesity prevention. 
This study modelled the potential cost-effectiveness of: a package size cap on 
single-serve sugar sweetened beverages (SSBs) &gt;375 mL ( package size cap ), 
and product reformulation to reduce energy content of packaged SSBs ( energy 
reduction ). The cost-effectiveness of each intervention was modelled for the 
2010 Australia population using a multi-state life table Markov model with a 
lifetime time horizon. Long-term health outcomes were modelled from calculated 
changes in body mass index to their impact on Health-Adjusted Life Years 
(HALYs). Intervention costs were estimated from a limited societal perspective. 
Cost and health outcomes were discounted at 3%. Total intervention costs 
estimated in AUD 2010 were AUD 210 million. Both interventions resulted in 
reduced mean body weight ( package size cap : 0.12 kg; energy reduction : 0.23 
kg); and HALYs gained ( package size cap : 73,883; energy reduction : 144,621). 
Cost offsets were estimated at AUD 750.8 million ( package size cap ) and AUD 
1.4 billion ( energy reduction ). Cost-effectiveness analyses showed that both 
interventions were "dominant", and likely to result in long term cost savings 
and health benefits. A package size cap and kJ reduction of SSBs are likely to 
offer excellent "value for money" as obesity prevention measures in Australia.

DOI: 10.3390/nu9090983
PMCID: PMC5622743
PMID: 28878175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M.C. interacts regularly on a non-financial 
basis with multiple large corporations in the Food Processing Industry and the 
Quick Service Restaurant industry in Australia and overseas as a part of her 
work to improve the quality of the food supply. All other authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


110. Ethiop Med J. 2017;55(Suppl 1):3-14.

Mortality and Disability-Adjusted Life-Years (Dalys) for Common Neglected 
Tropical Diseases in Ethiopia, 1990-2015: Evidence from the Global Burden of 
Disease Study 2015.

Deribew A(1)(2)(3), Kebede B(4), Tessema GA(5)(6), Adama YA(7)(8), Misganaw 
A(9), Gebre T(10), Hailu A(11), Biadgilign S(12), Amberbir A(13), Desalegn 
B(14), Abajobir AA(15)(16), Shafi O(17), Abera SF(8)(18), Negussu N(4), Mengistu 
B(4), Amare AT(7)(19), Mulugeta A(20), Kebede Z(20), Mengistu B(4), Tadesse 
Z(21), Sileshi M(4), Tamiru M(4), Chromwel EA(9), Glenn SD(9), Stanaway JD(9), 
Deribe K(22)(23).

Author information:
(1)St. Paul Millennium Medical College, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(2)Dilla University, Dilla, Ethiopia.
(3)Micronutrient Initiative, Ethiopia.
(4)Federal Ministry of Health, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(5)Department Reproductive Health, Institute of Public Health, University of 
Gondar, Gondar, Ethiopia.
(6)School of Public Health, The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, Australia.
(7)School of Medicine, The University of Adelaide, Adelaide South Australia.
(8)School of Public Health, Mekelle University, Mekelle, Ethiopia.
(9)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington.
(10)International Trachoma Initiative, the Task Force for Global Health, Addis 
Ababa, Ethiopia.
(11)School of Medicine, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(12)World Health Organization, Uganda.
(13)Dignitas International, Zomba Malawi.
(14)University of South Australia, Adelaide, Australia.
(15)School of Public Health, the University of Queensland, Queensland, 
Australia.
(16)Debremarkos University, Debremarkos, Ethiopia.
(17)Rollind schools of public Health, Emory University, USA.
(18)Institute of Biological Chemistry and Nutrition, Hohenheim University, 
Stuttgart, Germany.
(19)College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Bahir Dar University, Bahir Dar, 
Ethiopia.
(20)World Health Organization, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(21)The Carter Centre, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(22)Wellcome Trust Brighton & Sussex Centre for Global Health Research, Brighton 
& Sussex Medical School, Falmer, Brighton, UK.
(23)School of Public Health, Addis Ababa University, Ethiopia.

INTRODUCTION: Neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) are important public health 
problems in Ethiopia. In 2013, the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) has 
launched a national NTD master plan to eliminate major NTDs of public health 
importance by 2020. Benchmarking the current status of NTDs in the country is 
important to monitor and evaluate the progress in the implementation of 
interventions and their impacts. Therefore, this study aims to assess the trends 
of mortality and Disability-adjusted Life-Years (DALY) for the priority NTDs 
over the last 25 years.
METHODS: We used the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2015 estimates for this 
study. The GBD 2015 data source for cause of death and DALY estimation included 
verbal autopsy (VA), Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS), and other disease 
specific surveys, Ministry of Health reports submitted to United Nations (UN) 
agencies and published scientific articles. Cause of Death Ensemble modeling 
(CODEm) and/or natural history models were used to estimate NTDs mortality 
rates. DALY were estimated as the sum of Years of Life Lost (YLL) due to 
premature mortality and Years Lived with Disability (YLD).
RESULTS: All NTDs caused an estimated of 6,293 deaths (95% uncertainty interval 
(UI): 3699-10,080) in 1990 and 3,593 deaths (95% UI: 2051 - 6178) in 2015, a 43% 
reduction over the 25 years. Age-standardized mortality rates due to 
schistosomiasis, STH and leshmaniasis have declined by 91.3%, 73.5% and 21.6% 
respectively between 1990 to 2015. The number of DALYs due to all NTDs has 
declined from 814.4 thousand (95% UI: 548 thousand-1.2million) in 1990 to 579.5 
thousand (95%UI: 309.4 thousand-1.3 million) in 2015. Age-standardized DALY 
rates due to all NTDs declined by 30.7%, from 17.6 per 1000(95%UI: 12.5-26.5) in 
1990 to 12.2 per 1000(95%UI: 6.5 - 27.4) in 2015. Age-standardized DALY rate for 
trachoma declined from 92.7 per 100,000(95% UI: 63.2 - 128.4) in 1990 to 41.2 
per 100,000(95%UI: 27.4-59.2) in 2015, a 55.6% reduction between 1990 and 2015. 
Age-standardized DALY rates for onchocerciasis, schistosomiasis and 
lymphiaticfilariasis decreased by 66.2%, 29.4% and 12.5% respectively between 
1990 and 2015. DALY rate for ascariasis fell by 56.8% over the past 25 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Ethiopia has made a remarkable progress in reducing the DALY rates 
for most of the NTDs over the last 25 years. The rapid scale of interventions 
and broader system strengthening may have a lasting impact on achieving the 2020 
goal of elimination of most of NTDs. Ethiopia should strengthen the coverage of 
integrated interventions of NTD through proper coordination with other health 
programs and sectors and community participation to eliminate NTDs by 2020.

PMCID: PMC5582634
PMID: 28878427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Front Microbiol. 2017 Aug 22;8:1592. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.01592.
eCollection  2017.

Burkholderia cenocepacia Infections in Cystic Fibrosis Patients: Drug Resistance 
and Therapeutic Approaches.

Scoffone VC(1), Chiarelli LR(1), Trespidi G(1), Mentasti M(2)(3), Riccardi G(1), 
Buroni S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology and Biotechnology, University of PaviaPavia, Italy.
(2)Respiratory and Vaccine Preventable Bacteria Reference Unit, Public Health 
EnglandLondon, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Royal Cornwall HospitalTruro, United Kingdom.

Burkholderia cenocepacia is an opportunistic pathogen particularly dangerous for 
cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. It can cause a severe decline in CF lung function 
possibly developing into a life-threatening systemic infection known as cepacia 
syndrome. Antibiotic resistance and presence of numerous virulence determinants 
in the genome make B. cenocepacia extremely difficult to treat. Better 
understanding of its resistance profiles and mechanisms is crucial to improve 
management of these infections. Here, we present the clinical distribution of B. 
cenocepacia described in the last 6 years and methods for identification and 
classification of epidemic strains. We also detail new antibiotics, clinical 
trials, and alternative approaches reported in the literature in the last 5 
years to tackle B. cenocepacia resistance issue. All together these findings 
point out the urgent need of new and alternative therapies to improve CF 
patients' life expectancy.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.01592
PMCID: PMC5572248
PMID: 28878751


112. J Occup Med Toxicol. 2017 Sep 2;12:28. doi: 10.1186/s12995-017-0172-7. 
eCollection 2017.

Health utilities for chronic low back pain.

Seidler AL(1)(2), Rethberg C(3), Schmitt J(1)(3), Nienhaus A(4)(5), Seidler 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute and Policlinic of Occupational and Social Medicine (IPAS), Faculty 
of Medicine, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(2)NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, Systematic Reviews & Health Technology 
Assessment, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(3)Center for Evidence-Based Healthcare, University Hospital and Medical Faculty 
Carl Gustav Carus, TU Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(4)German Social Accident Insurance Institution for the Health and Welfare 
Service, Hamburg, Germany.
(5)Institute for Health Services Research in Dermatology and Nursing, University 
Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Chronic low back pain (LBP) is a common health problem, with a large 
potential for primary prevention. Health utilities (HU) reflect which proportion 
of their expected remaining life time individuals would hypothetically trade to 
be alleviated of a health condition of interest. A value of 0 means "prefer to 
die immediately", a value of 1 means "not willing to trade any life time". The 
aim of this cross-sectional study was to assess HU for LBP patients and for 
healthy participants and to examine whether HU for LBP are useful indicators to 
substantiate preventive and therapeutic decision making.
METHODS: Healthy participants (n = 126) and LBP patients (n = 32) were recruited 
mainly among the employees of a tertiary care hospital in Germany. Standardized 
LBP scenarios were presented to all participants and HU values were assessed 
using the time-trade-off method.
RESULTS: Median HU for LBP were 0.90 (IQR 0.31) for participants and 0.93 (IQR 
0.10) for LBP patients. Measurements were consistent across illness severity 
ratings with HU and with a visual analogue scale (VAS); in the healthy sample 
the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) was 0.61 (95% CI 0.23-1.00, 
F(1125) = 190, p < .001), in the patient sample the ICC was 0.66 (95% 
CI = 0.24-1.00, F(1,31) = 62, p < .001). 8% of participants reported HU of 1. 
There was no statistically significant relation between HU and age, income, or 
gender.
CONCLUSION: On average, participants chose a 7 to 10% shorter life expectancy to 
avoid LBP, but almost 1 in 10 participants were not willing to trade any life 
years. The results indicate a certain stability of HU due to the comparability 
of HU ratings across patients and healthy participants, the measurement 
consistency when comparing VAS and HU ratings, and the lack of association 
between demographic variables and HU. This underlines the usefulness of HU for 
measuring illness severity in comparative health economics evaluations of 
preventive and therapeutic measures that address chronic LBP or other 
pain-characterized diseases. Future studies should focus on different LBP 
intensities and derive stratified HU that reflect the distribution of pain 
intensity in the population.

DOI: 10.1186/s12995-017-0172-7
PMCID: PMC5581438
PMID: 28878813

Conflict of interest statement: AUTHORS’ INFORMATION: Not applicable. ETHICS 
APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The study protocol was approved by the 
local ethics committee and all study subjects gave written informed consent 
before study participation. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING 
INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing interests. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


113. Mol Neurobiol. 2018 Jun;55(6):5243-5254. doi: 10.1007/s12035-017-0757-2.
Epub  2017 Sep 6.

Transcriptional Effects of ApoE4: Relevance to Alzheimer's Disease.

Theendakara V(1), Peters-Libeu CA(1), Bredesen DE(1)(2), Rao RV(3).

Author information:
(1)The Buck Institute for Research on Aging, 8001 Redwood Blvd, Novato, CA, 
94945, USA.
(2)Easton Laboratories for Neurodegenerative Disease Research, UCLA, Los 
Angeles, CA, 90025, USA.
(3)The Buck Institute for Research on Aging, 8001 Redwood Blvd, Novato, CA, 
94945, USA. rrao@buckinstitute.org.

The major genetic risk factor for sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the lipid 
binding and transporting carrier protein apolipoprotein E, epsilon 4 allele 
(ApoE4). One of the unsolved mysteries of AD is how the presence of ApoE4 
elicits this age-associated, currently incurable neurodegenerative disease. 
Recently, we showed that ApoE4 acts as a transcription factor and binds to the 
promoters of genes involved in a range of processes linked to aging and AD 
disease pathogenesis. These findings point to novel therapeutic strategies for 
AD and aging, resulting in an extension of human healthspan, the disease-free 
and functional period of life. Here, we review the effects and implications of 
the putative transcriptional role of ApoE4 and propose a model of Alzheimer's 
disease that focuses on the transcriptional nature of ApoE4 and its downstream 
effects, with the aim that this knowledge will help to define the role ApoE4 
plays as a risk factor for AD, aging, and other processes such as inflammation 
and cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-017-0757-2
PMID: 28879423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2018 Nov-Dec;25(6):562-571. doi: 
10.1080/23279095.2017.1330748. Epub 2017 Sep 7.

Cognitive intervention for early stage dementia: Research and techniques.

DenBoer JW(1).

Author information:
(1)a Private Practice, Founder and Chief Medical Officer, SMART Brain Aging, Inc 
, Scottsdale , AZ , USA.

Dementia is a growing world-wide phenomenon, impacting more than six million 
