States.

PURPOSE: High-dose trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine (HD-IIV3) or 
recombinant trivalent influenza vaccine (RIV) may increase influenza vaccine 
effectiveness (VE) in adults with conditions that place them at high risk for 
influenza complications. This analysis models the public health impact and 
cost-effectiveness (CE) of these vaccines for 50-64year-olds.
METHODS: Markov model CE analysis compared 5 strategies in 50-64year-olds: no 
vaccination; only standard-dose IIV3 offered (SD-IIV3 only), only quadrivalent 
influenza vaccine offered (SD-IIV4 only); high-risk patients receiving HD-IIV3, 
others receiving SD-IIV3 (HD-IIV3 & SD-IIV3); and high-risk patients receiving 
HD-IIV3, others receiving SD-IIV4 (HD-IIV3 & SD-IIV4). In a secondary analysis, 
RIV replaced HD-IIV3. Parameters were obtained from U.S. databases, the medical 
literature and extrapolations from VE estimates. Effectiveness was measured as 
3%/year discounted quality adjusted life year (QALY) losses avoided.
RESULTS: The least expensive strategy was SD-IIV3 only, with total costs of 
$99.84/person. The SD-IIV4 only strategy cost an additional $0.91/person, or 
$37,700/QALY gained. The HD-IIV3 & SD-IIV4 strategy cost $1.06 more than SD-IIV4 
only, or $71,500/QALY gained. No vaccination and HD-IIV3 & SD-IIV3 strategies 
were dominated. Results were sensitive to influenza incidence, vaccine cost, 
standard-dose VE in the entire population and high-dose VE in high-risk 
patients. The CE of RIV for high-risk patients was dependent on as yet unknown 
parameter values.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on available data, using high-dose influenza vaccine or RIV 
in middle-aged, high-risk patients may be an economically favorable vaccination 
strategy with public health benefits. Clinical trials of these vaccines in this 
population may be warranted.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2017.07.069
PMCID: PMC5624037
PMID: 28890196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2017 Aug;1401(1):150-165. doi: 10.1111/nyas.13449.

Tocotrienols for bone health: a translational approach.

Shen CL(1), Klein A(2), Chin KY(3), Mo H(4), Tsai P(5), Yang RS(6), Chyu MC(7), 
Ima-Nirwana S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, 
Lubbock, Texas.
(2)Department of Kinesiology and Sport Management, Texas Tech University, 
Lubbock, Texas.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Universiti Kebangasaan Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur, 
Malaysia.
(4)Department of Nutrition, Byrdine F. Lewis School of Nursing and Health 
Professions, Georgia State University, Atlanta, Georgia.
(5)School of Medicine, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, 
Texas.
(6)Department of Orthopedics, School of Medicine, National Taiwan University 
Hospital, Taipei City, Taiwan.
(7)Graduate Healthcare Engineering, Whitacre College of Engineering, Texas Tech 
University, Lubbock, Texas.

Osteoporosis, a degenerative bone disease, is characterized by low bone mass and 
microstructural deterioration of bone tissue resulting in aggravated bone 
fragility and susceptibility to fractures. The trend of extended life expectancy 
is accompanied by a rise in the prevalence of osteoporosis and concomitant 
complications in the elderly population. Epidemiological evidence has shown an 
association between vitamin E consumption and the prevention of age-related bone 
loss in elderly women and men. Animal studies show that ingestion of vitamin E, 
especially tocotrienols, may benefit bone health in terms of maintaining higher 
bone mineral density and improving bone microstructure and quality. The 
beneficial effects of tocotrienols on bone health appear to be mediated via 
antioxidant/anti-inflammatory pathways and/or 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl 
coenzyme A mechanisms. We discuss (1) an overview of the prevalence and etiology 
of osteoporosis, (2) types of vitamin E (tocopherols versus tocotrienols), (3) 
findings of tocotrienols and bone health from published in vitro and animal 
studies, (4) possible mechanisms involved in bone protection, and (5) challenges 
and future direction for research.

© 2017 New York Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/nyas.13449
PMID: 28891093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Minerva Ginecol. 2018 Feb;70(1):58-68. doi: 10.23736/S0026-4784.17.04121-1.
Epub  2017 Sep 5.

Pelvic floor evaluation with transperineal ultrasound: a new approach.

Vellucci F(1), Regini C(1), Barbanti C(1), Luisi S(2).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Department of Molecular and Developmental 
Medicine, University of Siena, Siena, Italy.
(2)Unit of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Department of Molecular and Developmental 
Medicine, University of Siena, Siena, Italy - stefano.luisi@unisi.it.

The increased life expectancy, the importance of the prevention in younger age 
and the role of the pelvic floor dysfunction not only in the disease of the 
third age, but also in the childbearing age, as the influence on the type of 
delivery, underline the importance of the evaluation of the pelvic floor. The 
evaluation of pelvic floor is generally clinical, but in the last 2 decades, the 
use of ultrasound has become a mainstream diagnostic tool in the investigation 
of female pelvic organ prolapse, urinary and fecal incontinence and defecation 
disorders, providing an immediate objective confirmation of findings obtained on 
clinical examination and filling some of the gaps of the urogynecological exam. 
The use of transabdominal ultrasound was the first developed, while the use of 
translabial, transrectal and transvaginal techniques started later. This review 
will focus on the use of transperineal ultrasound, including two-dimensional 
(2D), three-dimensional (3D) and 4D imaging, as a valuable and objective method 
in the urogynecological evaluation, allowing the assessment of the pelvic floor 
anatomy and its functions and dysfunctions, the choice of the right type of 
treatment and the analysis of the changes after surgical treatment and its 
complications. The ultrasound approach has become an important instrument for 
the prevention, but also for the analysis of the disease, and to understand the 
importance of the pelvic floor function in different period of life of a woman.

DOI: 10.23736/S0026-4784.17.04121-1
PMID: 28891280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. EuroIntervention. 2018 Feb 20;13(14):1688-1695. doi: 10.4244/EIJ-D-17-00286.

Polymer-Free Drug-Coated Coronary Stents Are Cost-Effective in Patients at High 
Bleeding Risk: Economic Evaluation of the LEADERS FREE Trial.

Filipovic-Pierucci A(1), Durand-Zaleski I, Butel T, Greene S, Hovasse T, Iñiguez 
A, Nazzaro MS, Oldroyd KG, Talwar S, Richardt G, Windhovel U, Urban P, Morice 
MC.

Author information:
(1)Assistance Publique Hopitaux de Paris, URCEco & Santé publique, Hôpital Henri 
Mondor, Créteil, France.

AIMS: In patients at high risk of bleeding who undergo PCI the biolimus A9 
polymer-free drug coated stent (DCS) has superior efficacy and safety compared 
to a bare metal stent (BMS). We estimated the cost effectiveness of DCS vs. BMS.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The Leaders FREE-based economic evaluation estimated 
service use and quality of life data collected prospectively. The entire trial 
population was analysed using cost-weights from England, France, Germany, Italy, 
Scotland and Spain. Country-specific QALYs were derived from EQ-5D scores. We 
estimated cost per event averted and per QALY gained. DCS use resulted in -0.095 
cardiac deaths, target vessel MI, stent thrombosis and revascularization per 
patient (0.152 vs. 0.237;p<0.001). One-year QALYs were non-significantly higher 
in the DCS group. Total costs for the index admission were similar between 
groups. One-year costs using cost-weights from each of the 6 countries, 
including the additional €300 per DCS stent, ranged from €4,664-8,593 for DCS 
and €4,845-9,742 for BMS and were lower in the DCS group (England:€-428, 
France:€-137, Germany:€-33, Italy:€-522, Scotland:€-298, Spain:€-854).
CONCLUSIONS: The probability that DCS dominated BMS was >50% in all countries. 
At a threshold of €10,000 per event averted DCS had a 98% probability of being 
cost-effective in all 6 countries.

DOI: 10.4244/EIJ-D-17-00286
PMID: 28891471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. J Esthet Restor Dent. 2018 Jan;30(1):14-21. doi: 10.1111/jerd.12325. Epub
2017  Sep 11.

Effect of telescopic distal extension removable partial dentures on oral health 
related quality of life and maximum bite force: A preliminary cross over study.

Elsyad MA(1), Mostafa AZ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Removable Prosthodontics, University of Mansoura, Eldakahlia, 
Egypt.

OBJECTIVES: This cross over study aimed to evaluate the effect of telescopic 
distal extension removable partial dentures on oral health related quality of 
life and maximum bite force MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty patients with complete 
maxillary edentulism and partially edentulous mandibles with anterior teeth only 
remaining were selected for this cross over study. All patients received 
complete maxillary dentures and mandibular partial removable dental prosthesis 
(PRDP, control). After 3 months of adaptation, PRDP was replaced with 
conventional telescopic partial dentures (TPD) or telescopic partial dentures 
with cantilevered extensions (TCPD) in a quasi-random method. Oral health 
related quality of life (OHRQoL) was measured using OHIP-14 questionnaire and 
Maximum bite force (MBF) was measured using a bite force transducer. 
Measurements were performed 3 months after using each of the following 
prostheses; PRDP, TPD, and TCPD.
RESULTS: TCPD showed the OHIP-14 lowest scores (i.e., the highest patient 
satisfaction with their OHRQoL), followed by TPD, and PRDP showed the highest 
OHIP-14 scores (i.e., the lowest patient satisfaction with OHRQoL). TCPD showed 
the highest MBF (70.7 ± 3.71), followed by TPD (57.4 ± 3.43) and the lowest MBF 
(40.2 ± 2.20) was noted with PRDP.
CONCLUSION: WITHIN The Limitations of This Study, Mandibular Telescopic Distal 
Extension Removable Partial Dentures with Cantilevered Extensions Were 
Associated with Improved Oral Health Related Quality of Life and Maximum Bite 
Force Compared to Telescopic or Conventional PRDP.
CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Telescopic distal extension removable prostheses is an 
esthetic restoration in partially edentulous patients with free end saddle. This 
article describes the addition of cantilevered extensions of this prosthesis. 
The results showed that telescopic distal extension removable prostheses with 
cantilevered extensions were associated with improved oral health related 
quality of life and maximum bite force compared to telescopic or conventional 
RPDs.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/jerd.12325
PMID: 28891594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2017 Nov;26(11):1214-1221. doi: 
10.1089/jwh.2017.6334. Epub 2017 Sep 11.

Impact of Sex on Systemic Lupus Erythematosus-Related Causes of Premature 
Mortality in the United States.

Falasinnu T(1), Chaichian Y(2), Simard JF(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Health Research and Policy, Stanford School of Medicine , 
Stanford, California.
(2)2 Division of Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, Stanford 
School of Medicine , Stanford, California.

BACKGROUND: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic autoimmune disease 
that is a source of significantly decreased life expectancy in the United 
States. This study investigated causes of deaths among males and females with 
SLE.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This cross-sectional study used the national death 
certificate database of ∼2.7 million death records in the United States, 2014. 
SLE was defined using Tenth Revision of the International Classification of 
Diseases codes: M32.1, M32.9, and M32.8. We compared sex-stratified demographic 
characteristics and the most commonly listed comorbidities in decedents with and 
without SLE. Relative risks (RRs) quantified the risk of dying with the most 
commonly listed comorbidities among decedents with SLE aged ≤50 years compared 
with non-SLE decedents.
RESULTS: There were 2,036 decedents with SLE in the United States (86.2% 
female). Female SLE decedents were 22 years younger than non-SLE females 
(median: 59 years vs. 81 years). This difference was 12 years among male 
decedents (median: 61 years vs. 73 years). The most frequently listed causes of 
death among female SLE decedents were septicemia (4.32%) and hypertension 
(3.04%). In contrast, heart disease (3.70%) and diabetes mellitus with 
complications (3.61%) were the most common among male SLE decedents. Among 
younger male decedents, SLE had higher co-occurrence of coagulation/hemorrhagic 
disorders and chronic renal failure compared with non-SLE (RR = 16.69 [95% 
confidence interval {CI} = 10.50-27.44] and RR = 5.76 [95% CI = 2.76-12.00], 
respectively). These also contributed to premature mortality among women 
(RR = 4.98 [95% CI = 3.69-6.70] and 8.55 [95% CI = 6.89-10.61], respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings identify clinically relevant comorbidities that may 
warrant careful consideration in patients' clinical management and the natural 
history of SLE.

DOI: 10.1089/jwh.2017.6334
PMCID: PMC5695737
PMID: 28891746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No competing financial interests exist.


141. Nutrients. 2017 Sep 10;9(9):999. doi: 10.3390/nu9090999.

Panax ginseng Leaf Extracts Exert Anti-Obesity Effects in High-Fat Diet-Induced 
Obese Rats.

Lee SG(1), Lee YJ(2), Jang MH(3), Kwon TR(4)(5), Nam JO(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Biotechnology, Kyungpook National University, 
Daegu 41566, Korea. lsg100479@naver.com.
(2)Department of Life Sciences, Yeungnam University, Gyeongsan 38541, Korea. 
yjlee-7447@hanmail.net.
(3)Punggi Ginseng Research Institute Gyeong Buk A.R.E.S, Gyeongsangbuk-do 
Agricultural Research & Extension Services, Daegu 41404, Korea. hwanmj@korea.kr.
(4)Punggi Ginseng Research Institute Gyeong Buk A.R.E.S, Gyeongsangbuk-do 
Agricultural Research & Extension Services, Daegu 41404, Korea. 
trkwon1177@korea.kr.
(5)Division of Agriculture Environment Research, Gyeongsangbuk-do Agricultural 
Research & Extension Services, Daegu 41404, Korea. trkwon1177@korea.kr.
(6)Department of Food Science and Biotechnology, Kyungpook National University, 
Daegu 41566, Korea. namjo@knu.ac.kr.
(7)Institute of Agricultural Science & Technology, Kyungpook National 
University, Daegu 41566, Korea. namjo@knu.ac.kr.

Recent studies have reported that the aerial parts of ginseng contain various 
saponins, which have anti-oxidative, anti-inflammatory, and anti-obesity 
properties similar to those of ginseng root. However, the leaf extracts of 
Korean ginseng have not yet been investigated. In this study, we demonstrate the 
anti-obesity effects of green leaf and dried leaf extracts (GL and DL, 
respectively) of ginseng in high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obese rats. The 
administration of GL and DL to HFD-induced obese rats significantly decreased 
body weight (by 96.5% and 96.7%, respectively), and epididymal and abdominal 
adipose tissue mass. Furthermore, DL inhibited the adipogenesis of 3T3-L1 
adipocytes through regulation of the expression of key adipogenic regulators, 
such as peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-γ and 
CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP)-α. In contrast, GL had little effect on 
the adipogenesis of 3T3-L1 adipocytes but greatly increased the protein 
expression of PPARγ compared with that in untreated cells. These results were 
not consistent with an anti-obesity effect in the animal model, which suggested 
that the anti-obesity effect of GL in vivo resulted from specific factors 
released by other organs, or from increased energy expenditure. To our 
knowledge, these findings are the first evidence for the anti-obesity effects of 
the leaf extracts of Korean ginseng in vivo.

DOI: 10.3390/nu9090999
PMCID: PMC5622759
PMID: 28891956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


142. J Psychopharmacol. 2017 Nov;31(11):1430-1436. doi: 10.1177/0269881117722987.
 Epub 2017 Sep 11.

Mechanisms underlying metabolic disturbances associated with psychosis and 
antipsychotic drug treatment.

Reynolds GP(1), McGowan OO(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Biomolecular Sciences Research Centre, Sheffield Hallam University, 
Sheffield, UK.
(2)2 Hairmyres Hospital, NHS Lanarkshire, East Kilbride, UK.

The increase in cardiovascular disease and reduced life expectancy in 
schizophrenia likely relate to an increased prevalence of metabolic 
disturbances. Such metabolic risk factors in schizophrenia may result from both 
symptom-related effects and aetiological factors. However, a major contributory 
factor is that of treatment with antipsychotic drugs. These drugs differ in 
effects on body weight; the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood and 
may vary between drugs, but may include actions at receptors associated with the 
hypothalamic control of food intake. Evidence supports 5-hydroxytryptamine 
receptor 2C and dopamine D2 receptor antagonism as well as antagonism at 
histamine H1 and muscarinic M3 receptors. These M3 receptors may also mediate 
the effects of some drugs on glucose regulation. Several antipsychotics showing 
little propensity for weight gain, such as aripiprazole, have protective 
pharmacological mechanisms, rather than just the absence of a hyperphagic 
effect. In addition to drug differences, there is large individual variation in 
antipsychotic drug-induced weight gain. This pharmacogenetic association 
reflects genetic variation in several drug targets, including the 
5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2C, as well as genes involved in obesity and 
metabolic disturbances. Thus predictive genetic testing for drug-induced weight 
gain would represents a first step towards personalised medicine addressing this 
severe and problematic iatrogenic disease.

DOI: 10.1177/0269881117722987
PMID: 28892404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2017 Sep 11;11(9):e0005899. doi: 
10.1371/journal.pntd.0005899. eCollection 2017 Sep.

Cost-effectiveness of a national enterovirus 71 vaccination program in China.

Wang W(1), Song J(2), Wang J(3), Li Y(1), Deng H(4), Li M(1), Gao N(1), Zhai 
S(1), Dang S(1), Zhang X(1), Jia X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an 
Jiaotong University, Xi'an, China.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Xi'an Children's Hospital, Xi'an, China.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, Xi'an, China.
(4)The Second Department of Infectious Diseases, Xi'an Children's Hospital, 
Xi'an, China.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Enterovirus 71 (EV71) has caused great morbidity, 
mortality, and use of health service in children younger than five years in 
China. Vaccines against EV71 have been proved effective and safe by recent phase 
3 trials and are now available in China. The purpose of this study was to 
evaluate the health impact and cost-effectiveness of a national EV71 vaccination 
program in China.
METHODS: Using Microsoft Excel, a decision model was built to calculate the net 
clinical and economic outcomes of EV71 vaccination compared with no EV71 
vaccination in a birth cohort of 1,000,000 Chinese children followed for five 
years. Model parameters came from published epidemiology, clinical and cost 
data.
RESULTS: In the base-case, vaccination would annually avert 37,872 cases of 
hand, foot and mouth disease (HFMD), 2,629 herpangina cases, 72,900 outpatient 
visits, 6,363 admissions to hospital, 29 deaths, and 945 disability adjusted 
life years. The break-even price of the vaccine was $5.2/dose. When the price 
was less than $8.3 or $14.6/dose, the vaccination program would be highly 
cost-effective or cost-effective, respectively (incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio less than or between one to three times China GDP per capita, 
respectively). In one-way sensitivity analyses, the HFMD incidence was the only 
influential parameter at the price of $5/dose.
CONCLUSIONS: Within the price range of current routine vaccines paid by the 
government, a national EV71 vaccination program would be cost-saving or highly 
cost-effective to prevent EV71 related morbidity, mortality, and use of health 
service among children younger than five years in China. Policy makers should 
consider including EV71 vaccination as part of China's routine childhood 
immunization schedule.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0005899
PMCID: PMC5608421
PMID: 28892475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


144. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2017 Sep 1;58(11):4586-4592. doi: 
10.1167/iovs.17-21990.

Increased Mortality and Comorbidity Associated With Leber's Hereditary Optic 
Neuropathy: A Nationwide Cohort Study.

Vestergaard N(1), Rosenberg T(2)(3), Torp-Pedersen C(4), Vorum H(5), Andersen 
CU(5), Aasbjerg K(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Rigshospitalet-Glostrup-Kennedy, Glostrup, 
Denmark.
(3)Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(4)Department of Epidemiology, Aalborg University Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, Aalborg University Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark.

Comment in
    J Neuroophthalmol. 2018 Mar;38(1):115-121.

PURPOSE: Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) is a mitochondrial genetic 
disease in which optic neuropathy is considered a key feature. Several other 
manifestations of LHON have been reported; however, only little is known of 
their incidence and the life expectancy in LHON patients.
METHODS: This study, based on Danish nationwide health registries, included 141 
patients diagnosed with LHON and 297 unaffected family members in the maternal 
line. The incidence of comorbidities and mortality for patients with LHON and 
unaffected family members was compared with that in the general population.
RESULTS: Having LHON was associated with an almost 2-fold risk of mortality with 
a rate ratio (RR) of 1.95 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.47-2.59; P < 0.001). 
The incidence of several diseases was increased for LHON patients, but not for 
family members. The incidence of stroke was 5.73 per 1000 patient-years for LHON 
patients compared to 2.33 for the general population, and the RR was 2.38 (95% 
CI: 1.58-3.58; P < 0.001). The incidence of demyelinating disorders was 2.24 
compared to 0.21 for the general population; RR was 12.89 (95% CI: 6.70-24.77; P 
< 0.001). A 4-fold risk of dementia was seen for LHON patients (RR: 4.26, 95% 
CI: 1.91-9.48; P < 0.001), incidence 1.45 for LHON and 0.37 for the general 
population. Moreover, LHON patients had an increased risk of epilepsy, 
atherosclerosis, nerve symptoms, neuropathy, and alcohol-related disorders.
CONCLUSIONS: The manifestation of LHON was associated with increased mortality 
and increased incidence of several disorders including stroke, demyelinating 
disorder, dementia, and epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.17-21990
PMID: 28892826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. J Clin Diagn Res. 2017 Jul;11(7):OC01-OC03. doi:
10.7860/JCDR/2017/23931.10126.  Epub 2017 Jul 1.

Outcomes of Mechanically Ventilated Critically Ill Geriatric Patients in 
Intensive Care Unit.

Aggarwal V(1), Singh R(2), Singh JB(3), Bawa J(4), Gaur N(5), Kumar S(1), Nagesh 
IV(1).

Author information:
(1)Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine, AFMC, Pune, Maharashtra, India.
(2)Associate Professor, Department of Medicine, AFMC, Pune, Maharashtra, India.
(3)Senior Advisor, Department of Anaesthesiology and Critical Care, Military 
Hospital, Pathankot, Punjab, India.
(4)Classified Specialist, Department of Anaesthesiology and Critical Care, 
Military Hospital, Pathankot, Punjab, India.
(5)Graded Specialist, Department of Anaesthesiology and Critical Care, Military 
Hospital, Pathankot, Punjab, India.

INTRODUCTION: Increase in life expectancy across the globe has led to rise in 
geriatric population. Geriatric population is now living longer and healthier. 
This rise in geriatric population has also led to increase in the geriatric 
ailments leading to increased number of geriatric patients requiring intensive 
care including mechanical ventilation. Data on outcomes of geriatric patients 
requiring mechanical ventilation from India is scarce.
AIM: To study the profile and outcome of geriatric patients more than equal to 
60 years requiring mechanical ventilation in Intensive Care Unit (ICU).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The data of all the geriatric patients, more than 60 
years of age, admitted to ICU between January 2008 to August 2014 requiring 
mechanical ventilation for various reasons were extracted from the hospital 
records. Various reasons for ventilation, duration of ventilation/hospital stay, 
mortality and associated comorbidities were recorded and analysed.
RESULTS: Total 140 geriatric patients were mechanically ventilated in the study 
period, out of which 43.5% (61/140) were above 70 years of age and 67.8% 
(95/140) were above 65 years of age. Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease 
(COPD) was the most common cause for mechanical ventilation constituting 20% of 
patients followed by severe sepsis (17.8%), cerebro-vascular accident (12.8%), 
post-surgical patients (12.8%) and Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) in 10%. In our 
study, 44.28% of the geriatric patients requiring mechanical ventilation in the 
ICU were successfully weaned off the ventilator. Early tracheostomy helped in 
weaning off from ventilator as 83.33% (5/6) of patients requiring tracheostomy 
could be weaned off the ventilator suggesting that tracheostomy may help in 
improving the outcome. Reintubation carried a very poor prognosis and increased 
mortality, as 80% (4/5) of the patients who were reintubated in our study could 
not survive.
CONCLUSION: Our study revealed that in appropriate intensive care setting and 
with standard protocol based therapy for primary ailments, outcomes with 
mechanical ventilation in geriatric population can be comparable to outcomes in 
younger population.

DOI: 10.7860/JCDR/2017/23931.10126
PMCID: PMC5583825
PMID: 28892951


146. Int J Hyperthermia. 2018 Aug;34(5):545-550. doi:
10.1080/02656736.2017.1375161.  Epub 2017 Sep 18.

Comparative efficacy evaluation of catheter intraperitoneal chemotherapy, 
normothermic and hyperthermic chemoperfusion in a rat model of ascitic ovarian 
cancer.

Bespalov VG(1)(2), Alvovsky IK(1)(2), Tochilnikov GV(1)(2), Stukov AN(1), 
Vyshinskaya EA(1), Semenov AL(1)(2), Vasilyeva IN(1)(2), Belyaeva OA(1), Kireeva 
GS(1), Senchik KY(1), Zhilinskaya NT(1), Von JD(1), Krasilnikova LA(1), 
Alexandrov VA(1)(2), Khromov-Borisov NN(3), Baranenko DA(2), Belyaev AM(1).

Author information:
(1)a Scientific Laboratory of Cancer Chemoprevention and Oncopharmacology , N.N. 
Petrov Research Institute of Oncology , St. Petersburg , Russia.
(2)b International Research Centre "Biotechnologies of the Third Millennium", 
ITMO University , St. Petersburg , Russia.
(3)c Scientific Council, R.R. Vreden Russian Scientific Research Institute of 
Traumatology and Orthopedics , St. Petersburg , Russia.

OBJECTIVES: The choice of an optimal administration route for intraperitoneal 
(IP) chemotherapy and a suitable chemotherapeutic regime in the treatment of 
ovarian cancer remains a controversy. We investigated survival outcomes 
according to catheter intraperitoneal chemotherapy (CIPC), normothermic and 
hyperthermic chemoperfusion (NIPEC and HIPEC) with cytostatic drugs dioxadet and 
cisplatin in rats with transplantable ascitic ovarian cancer.
METHODS: Ascitic liquid containing 1 × 107 tumour cells was inoculated to female 
Wistar rats and 48 hours after rats received dioxadet and cisplatin at the 
maximum tolerated doses. Dioxadet at doses 1.5, 30 and 15 mg/kg and cisplatin at 
doses 4, 40 and 20 mg/kg body weight were administered for CIPC, NIPEC and 
HIPEC, respectively. Rats in the control groups received physiological saline 
and CIPC with physiological saline was regarded as the untreated control. The 
antitumor activity of the drugs was evaluated as an increase in average life 
expectancy (ALE). Analysis of the data was based primarily on Bayesian 
statistics and included Kaplan-Meier method, log-rank test and hazard ratio (HR) 
estimation.
RESULTS: Compared to the untreated control CIPC, NIPEC and HIPEC with dioxadet 
significantly increased ALE by 101316, 61524 and 1.71735 days, whereas with 
cisplatin by 61013, 122437 and -13523 days, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Dioxadet and cisplatin show similar efficacy in the CIPC route. 
Compared with CIPC IP chemotherapy by chemoperfusions is more effective for both 
the drugs. Dioxadet in HIPEC showed highest survival benefit whereas largest 
effect during NIPEC is achieved with cisplatin.

DOI: 10.1080/02656736.2017.1375161
PMID: 28893108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. BMC Nephrol. 2017 Sep 11;18(1):294. doi: 10.1186/s12882-017-0713-4.

Efficacy of blood flow restriction exercise during dialysis for end stage kidney 
disease patients: protocol of a randomised controlled trial.

Clarkson MJ(1), Fraser SF(1), Bennett PN(2)(3), McMahon LP(4), Brumby C(4), 
Warmington SA(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Physical Activity and Nutrition, School of Exercise and 
Nutrition Sciences, Deakin University, 221 Burwood Highway, Burwood, 3125, 
Australia.
(2)Medical and Clinical Affairs, Satellite Healthcare, San Jose, CA, USA.
(3)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Deakin University, Burwood, VIC, Australia.
(4)Department of Renal Medicine, Eastern Health Clinical School, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.
(5)Institute for Physical Activity and Nutrition, School of Exercise and 
Nutrition Sciences, Deakin University, 221 Burwood Highway, Burwood, 3125, 
Australia. stuart.warmington@deakin.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: Exercise during haemodialysis improves strength and physical 
function. However, both patients and clinicians are time poor, and current 
exercise recommendations add an excessive time burden making exercise a rare 
addition to standard care. Hypothetically, blood flow restriction exercise 
performed during haemodialysis can provide greater value for time spent 
exercising, reducing this time burden while producing similar or greater 
outcomes. This study will explore the efficacy of blood flow restriction 
exercise for enhancing strength and physical function among haemodialysis 
patients.
METHODS: This is a randomised controlled trial design. A total of 75 
participants will be recruited from haemodialysis clinics. Participants will be 
allocated to a blood flow restriction cycling group, traditional cycling group 
or usual care control group. Both exercising groups will complete 3 months of 
cycling exercise, performed intradialytically, three times per week. The blood 
flow restriction cycling group will complete two 10-min cycling bouts separated 
by a 20-min rest at a subjective effort of 15 on a 6 to 20 rating scale. This 
will be done with pressurised cuffs fitted proximally on the active limbs during 
exercise at 50% of a pre-determined limb occlusion pressure. The traditional 
cycling group will perform a continuous 20-min bout of exercise at a subjective 
effort of 12 on the same subjective effort scale. These workloads and volumes 
are equivalent and allow for comparison of a common blood flow restriction 
aerobic exercise prescription and a traditional aerobic exercise prescription. 
The primary outcome measures are lower limb strength, assessed by a three 
repetition maximum leg extension test, as well as objective measures of physical 
function: six-minute walk test, 30-s sit to stand, and timed up and go. 
Secondary outcome measures include thigh muscle cross sectional area, body 
composition, routine pathology, quality of life, and physical activity 
engagement.
DISCUSSION: This study will determine the efficacy of blood flow restriction 
exercise among dialysis patients for improving key physiological outcomes that 
impact independence and quality of life, with reduced burden on patients. This 
may have broader implications for other clinical populations with similarly 
declining muscle health and physical function, and those contraindicated to 
higher intensities of exercise.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian and New Zealand Clinical Trial Register: 
ACTRN12616000121460.

DOI: 10.1186/s12882-017-0713-4
PMCID: PMC5594594
PMID: 28893206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: This 
study was performed in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki (1975). The 
design and conduct of this study was approved by the human research ethics 
committees of both Deakin University (DUHREC 2016–223) and Eastern Health 
(E05–2016). Participants will be provided with plain language information 
packages that detail all aspects of their potential involvement in the study, as 
well as consent forms they will be required to read, complete and return to a 
member of the research team. This study has been registered with the Australian 
and New Zealand Clinical Trials Register (ANZCTR): ACTRN12616000121460. CONSENT 
FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that 
they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains 
neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


148. Acta Vet Scand. 2017 Sep 11;59(1):58. doi: 10.1186/s13028-017-0325-9.

Effect of long-term storage in Safe Cell+ extender on boar sperm DNA integrity 
and other key sperm parameters.

Bielas W(1), Niżański W(2), Partyka A(1), Rząsa A(3), Mordak R(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Reproduction and Clinic of Farm Animals, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, Wrocław University of Environmental and Life Sciences, pl. Grunwaldzki 
49, 50-366, Wrocław, Poland.
(2)Department of Reproduction and Clinic of Farm Animals, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, Wrocław University of Environmental and Life Sciences, pl. Grunwaldzki 
49, 50-366, Wrocław, Poland. wojciech.nizanski@upwr.edu.pl.
(3)Department of Immunology, Pathophysiology and Veterinary Prevention Medicine, 
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Wrocław University of Environmental and Life 
Sciences, ul. C. K. Norwida 31, 50-375, Wrocław, Poland.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine and Clinic of Diseases of Horses, Dogs and 
Cats, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Wrocław University of Environmental and 
Life Sciences, pl. Grunwaldzki 47, 50-366, Wrocław, Poland.

BACKGROUND: There is some controversy about the extent of changes in different 
sperm cell features in stored boar semen, especially regarding the potential 
role of the DNA fragmentation assay for assessment of sperm fertilizing ability. 
The aim of this study was to assess the effect of time of storage and the 
dynamic changes in sperm cell characteristics in normospermic boar semen stored 
in long-term extender, in order to determine the susceptibility to damage of 
particular structures of spermatozoa during cooling and storage at 17 °C for 
240 h post collection. The study included five ejaculates from each of seven 
boars of the Polish Large White breed (n = 35 ejaculates). The sperm 
characteristics were assessed using a flow cytometer and a computer assisted 
sperm analyzer on samples at 0, 48, 96, 168 and 240 h post collection.
RESULTS: The sperm chromatin structure assay (SCSA) showed a significant abrupt 
increase (P < 0.01) in the DNA fragmentation index (%DFI) after 48 h of semen 
storage with only subtle changes thereafter, not exceeding 5% on average after 
240 h of storage. The use of a combination of SYBR-14/PI stains did not reveal 
any significant changes in the percentage of live sperm cells up to 168 h of 
semen storage. A significant (P < 0.01) decrease in the percentage of live 
spermatozoa with intact acrosomes was observed after prolonged semen storage 
(168 h). A significant and progressive decrease in sperm motility was recorded 
during the whole period of semen storage.
CONCLUSIONS: Storage of boar semen extended in long-term diluent at 17 °C for 
48 h initially induced a decrease in the integrity of sperm DNA. This suggests 
that the structure of boar sperm DNA is susceptible to damage, especially during 
semen extension and at the beginning of sperm storage. These findings support 
the opinion that the SCSA test has only a low potential for routine assessment 
of boar semen preserved in the liquid state and for assessment of sperm quality 
changes during 10 days of semen preservation. Remarkably, the integrity of 
acrosomes and plasma membranes remained nearly unchanged for 7 days.

DOI: 10.1186/s13028-017-0325-9
PMCID: PMC5594552
PMID: 28893310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 2017 Dec;26(12):2067-2077. doi: 
10.1016/j.jse.2017.07.012. Epub 2017 Sep 8.

Cost-effectiveness of magnetic resonance imaging versus ultrasound for the 
detection of symptomatic full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears.

Gyftopoulos S(1), Guja KE(2), Subhas N(3), Virk MS(4), Gold HT(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, NYU Langone Medical Center/Hospital for Joint 
Diseases, New York, NY, USA. Electronic address: Soterios20@gmail.com.
(2)Stony Brook University Medical Center, Stony Brook, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Radiology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(4)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, NYU Hospital for Joint Diseases, New York, 
NY, USA.
(5)Department of Population Health and Orthopaedic Surgery, NYU School of 
Medicine, New York, NY, USA.

Comment in
    J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 2018 Oct;27(10):e318-e319.
    J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 2018 Oct;27(10):e320-e321.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to determine the value of magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) and ultrasound-based imaging strategies in the 
evaluation of a hypothetical population with a symptomatic full-thickness 
supraspinatus tendon (FTST) tear using formal cost-effectiveness analysis.
METHODS: A decision analytic model from the health care system perspective for 
60-year-old patients with symptoms secondary to a suspected FTST tear was used 
to evaluate the incremental cost-effectiveness of 3 imaging strategies during a 
2-year time horizon: MRI, ultrasound, and ultrasound followed by MRI. 
Comprehensive literature search and expert opinion provided data on cost, 
probability, and quality of life estimates. The primary effectiveness outcome 
was quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) through 2 years, with a 
willingness-to-pay threshold set to $100,000/QALY gained (2016 U.S. dollars). 
Costs and health benefits were discounted at 3%.
RESULTS: Ultrasound was the least costly strategy ($1385). MRI was the most 
effective (1.332 QALYs). Ultrasound was the most cost-effective strategy but was 
not dominant. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for MRI was $22,756/QALY 
gained, below the willingness-to-pay threshold. Two-way sensitivity analysis 
demonstrated that MRI was favored over the other imaging strategies over a wide 
range of reasonable costs. In probabilistic sensitivity analysis, MRI was the 
preferred imaging strategy in 78% of the simulations.
CONCLUSION: MRI and ultrasound represent cost-effective imaging options for 
evaluation of the patient thought to have a symptomatic FTST tear. The results 
indicate that MRI is the preferred strategy based on cost-effectiveness 
criteria, although the decision between MRI and ultrasound for an imaging center 
is likely to be dependent on additional factors, such as available resources and 
workflow.

Copyright © 2017 Journal of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery Board of Trustees. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jse.2017.07.012
PMID: 28893546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. JMIR Med Educ. 2017 Sep 11;3(2):e14. doi: 10.2196/mededu.7587.

A Web-Based Lifestyle Medicine Curriculum: Facilitating Education About 
Lifestyle Medicine, Behavioral Change, and Health Care Outcomes.

Frates EP(#)(1)(2), Xiao RC(2), Sannidhi D(3), McBride Y(4), McCargo T(4), Stern 
TA(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Spaulding Rehabilitation 
Hospital, Charlestown, MA, United States.
(2)Harvard Medical School, Harvard University, Boston, MA, United States.
(3)Division of Family Medicine, Department of Family and Preventative Medicine, 
University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, United States.
(4)Harvard Extension School, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, United States.
(5)Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, United States.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Lifestyle medicine is the science and application of healthy 
lifestyles as interventions for the prevention and treatment of disease, and has 
gained significant momentum as a specialty in recent years. College is a 
critical time for maintenance and acquisition of healthy habits. Longer-term, 
more intensive web-based and in-person lifestyle medicine interventions can have 
a positive effect. Students who are exposed to components of lifestyle medicine 
in their education have improvements in their health behaviors. A semester-long 
undergraduate course focused on lifestyle medicine can be a useful intervention 
to help adopt and sustain healthy habits.
OBJECTIVE: To describe a novel, evidence based curriculum for a course teaching 
the concepts of Lifestyle Medicine based on a web-based course offered at the 
Harvard Extension School.
METHODS: The course was delivered in a web-based format. The Lifestyle Medicine 
course used evidence based principles to guide students toward a "coach 
approach" to behavior change, increasing their self-efficacy regarding various 
lifestyle-related preventive behaviors. Students are made to understand the 
cultural trends and national guidelines that have shaped lifestyle medicine 
recommendations relating to behaviors. They are encouraged to engage in behavior 
change. Course topics include physical activity, nutrition, addiction, sleep, 
stress, and lifestyle coaching and counseling. The course addressed all of the 
American College of Preventive Medicine/American College of Lifestyle Medicine 
competencies save for the competency of office systems and technologies to 
support lifestyle medicine counseling.
RESULTS: The course was well-received, earning a ranking of 4.9/5 at the school.
CONCLUSIONS: A novel, semester-long course on Lifestyle Medicine at the Harvard 
Extension School is described. Student evaluations suggest the course was 
well-received. Further research is needed to evaluate whether such a course 
empowers students to adopt behavior changes.

©Elizabeth Pegg Frates, Ryan C Xiao, Deepa Sannidhi, Yasamina McBride, Tracie 
McCargo, Theodore A Stern. Originally published in JMIR Medical Education 
(http://mededu.jmir.org), 11.09.2017.

DOI: 10.2196/mededu.7587
PMCID: PMC5613210
PMID: 28893726

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


151. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2017 Sep 26;114(39):10384-10389. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1616784114. Epub 2017 Sep 11.

New evidence on the impact of sustained exposure to air pollution on life 
expectancy from China's Huai River Policy.

Ebenstein A(1), Fan M(2), Greenstone M(3)(4), He G(5)(6)(7), Zhou M(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Economics and Management, Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem, Rehovot 76100, Israel.
(2)Department of Economics, Ball State University, Muncie, IN 47304.
(3)Department of Economics, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637; 
mgreenst@uchicago.edu.
(4)National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA 02138.
(5)Division of Social Science, The Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology, Hong Kong.
(6)Division of Environment and Sustainability, The Hong Kong University of 
Science and Technology, Hong Kong.
(7)Department of Economics, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, 
Hong Kong.
(8)National Center for Chronic and Non-Communicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China.

This paper finds that a 10-μg/m3 increase in airborne particulate matter 
[particulate matter smaller than 10 μm (PM10)] reduces life expectancy by 0.64 
years (95% confidence interval = 0.21-1.07). This estimate is derived from 
quasiexperimental variation in PM10 generated by China's Huai River Policy, 
which provides free or heavily subsidized coal for indoor heating during the 
winter to cities north of the Huai River but not to those to the south. The 
findings are derived from a regression discontinuity design based on distance 
from the Huai River, and they are robust to using parametric and nonparametric 
estimation methods, different kernel types and bandwidth sizes, and adjustment 
for a rich set of demographic and behavioral covariates. Furthermore, the 
shorter lifespans are almost entirely caused by elevated rates of 
cardiorespiratory mortality, suggesting that PM10 is the causal factor. The 
estimates imply that bringing all of China into compliance with its Class I 
standards for PM10 would save 3.7 billion life-years.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1616784114
PMCID: PMC5625887
PMID: 28893980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


152. J Thorac Dis. 2017 Aug;9(Suppl 9):S969-S978. doi: 10.21037/jtd.2017.06.136.

Are acute coronary syndromes an ideal scenario for bioresorbable vascular 
scaffold implantation?

Moscarella E(1), Ielasi A(2), De Angelis MC(1), di Uccio FS(3), Cerrato E(4), De 
Rosa R(1), Campo G(5), Varricchio A(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Invasive Cardiology, Santa Maria della Pietà Hospital, Nola, 
Napoli, Italy.
(2)Division of Cardiology, ASST Bergamo Est, "Bolognini" Hospital, Seriate (BG), 
Italy.
(3)Ospedale Santa Maria di Loreto Mare, Napoli, Italy.
(4)Interventional Cardiology Unit, San Luigi Gonzaga University Hospital, 
Orbassano and Infermi Hospital, Rivoli, Turin, Italy.
(5)Cardiovascular Section, Medical Sciences Department, Azienda Ospedaliera 
Universitaria Sant' Anna, Ferrara, Italy.

Bioresorbable vascular scaffolds (BRS) represent the latest innovation in the 
field of interventional cardiology. BRS have recently been introduced in routine 
clinical practice and their use has progressively extended in everyday clinical 
practice. The BRS use appears theoretically attractive in patients presenting 
with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) as they are generally young with long life 
expectancy, thus possibly benefiting more of the so-called vascular reparative 
therapy. Furthermore, "culprit" lesions are usually softer and more easily 
expandable by current BRS compared to stable chronic lesions. However an 
increased risk of BRS thrombosis has been reported in clinical trials excluding 
ACS patients. Therefore, concerns have been raised on the safety of BRS 
implantation in the ACS setting in which the risk of thrombotic recurrences is 
definitely higher (compared to stable lesions) independently by the device 
implanted. Aim of this review is to provide an overview of the available data on 
the BRS performance in ACS patients.

DOI: 10.21037/jtd.2017.06.136
PMCID: PMC5583090
PMID: 28894603

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors have no 
conflicts of interest to declare.


153. Demography. 2017 Oct;54(5):1795-1818. doi: 10.1007/s13524-017-0611-1.

The Growth, Scope, and Spatial Distribution of People With Felony Records in the 
United States, 1948-2010.

Shannon SKS(1), Uggen C(2), Schnittker J(3), Thompson M(4), Wakefield S(5), 
Massoglia M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Georgia, 113 Baldwin Hall, Athens, GA, 
30602, USA. sshannon@uga.edu.
(2)Department of Sociology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(3)Department of Sociology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(4)Department of Sociology, Portland State University, Portland, OR, USA.
(5)School of Criminal Justice, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ, USA.
(6)Department of Sociology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA.

The steep rise in U.S. criminal punishment in recent decades has spurred 
scholarship on the collateral consequences of imprisonment for individuals, 
families, and communities. Several excellent studies have estimated the number 
of people who have been incarcerated and the collateral consequences they face, 
but far less is known about the size and scope of the total U.S. population with 
felony convictions beyond prison walls, including those who serve their 
sentences on probation or in jail. This article develops state-level estimates 
based on demographic life tables and extends previous national estimates of the 
number of people with felony convictions to 2010. We estimate that 3 % of the 
total U.S. adult population and 15 % of the African American adult male 
population has ever been to prison; people with felony convictions account for 
8 % of all adults and 33 % of the African American adult male population. We 
discuss the far-reaching consequences of the spatial concentration and immense 
growth of these groups since 1980.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-017-0611-1
PMCID: PMC5996985
PMID: 28895078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Clin Drug Investig. 2017 Nov;37(11):1093-1102. doi:
10.1007/s40261-017-0571-7.

Bilateral Salpingo-Oophorectomy Versus GnRH Analogue in the Adjuvant Treatment 
of Premenopausal Breast Cancer Patients: Cost-Effectiveness Evaluation of Breast 
Cancer Outcome, Ovarian Cancer Prevention and Treatment.

Ferrandina G(1), Amadio G(2), Marcellusi A(3), Azzolini E(4), Puggina A(4), 
Pastorino R(4), Ricciardi W(4), Scambia G(1).

Author information:
(1)Gynecologic Oncology Unit, Fondazione "Policlinico Universitario A.Gemelli", 
Catholic University, L.go A. Gemelli 8, 00168, Rome, Italy.
(2)Gynecologic Oncology Unit, Fondazione "Policlinico Universitario A.Gemelli", 
Catholic University, L.go A. Gemelli 8, 00168, Rome, Italy. 
giulia.amadio82@gmail.com.
(3)Economic Evaluation and HTA (CEIS-EEHTA), IGF Department, Faculty of 
Economics, University of Rome "Tor Vergata", Via Columbia 2, 00133, Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Public Health, Catholic University, L.go A. Gemelli 8, 00168, 
Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: There is no available evidence to recommend 
gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analogue-based ovarian suppression versus 
bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO) in the adjuvant treatment of early breast 
cancer, since the two approaches are considered equivalent in terms of oncologic 
outcome. The role of surgical ovarian ablation has been revitalized based on the 
advances of minimally invasive surgery, and a better understanding of clinical 
and molecular basis of hereditary breast/ovarian cancer syndromes. The aim of 
this study is to analyze the cost-effectiveness of laparoscopic BSO and GnRH 
analogue administration in patients aged 40-49 years with hormone-sensitive 
breast cancer.
METHODS: A probabilistic decision tree model was developed to evaluate costs and 
outcomes of ovarian ablation through laparoscopic BSO, or ovarian suppression 
through monthly injections of GnRH analogue. Results were expressed as 
incremental costs per quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained.
RESULTS: Laparoscopic BSO strategy was associated with a lower mean total cost 
per patient than GnRH treatment, and considering the difference in terms of 
QALYs, the incremental effectiveness did not demonstrate a notable difference 
between the two approaches. From the National Health Service perspective, and 
for a time horizon of 5 years, laparoscopic BSO was the dominant option compared 
to GnRH treatment; laparoscopic BSO was less expensive than GnRH, €2385 [95% 
confidence interval (CI) = 2044, 2753] vs €7093 (95% CI = 3409, 12,105), 
respectively, and more effective.
CONCLUSION: Surgical ovarian ablation is more cost-effective than GnRH 
administration in the adjuvant treatment of hormone-sensitive breast cancer 
patients aged 40-49 years, and the advantage of preventing ovarian cancer 
through laparoscopic BSO should be considered.

DOI: 10.1007/s40261-017-0571-7
PMID: 28895089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv. 2018 Mar 1;91(4):790-797. doi:
10.1002/ccd.27323.  Epub 2017 Sep 12.

Complete filter-based cerebral embolic protection with transcatheter aortic 
valve replacement.

Van Gils L(1), Kroon H(1), Daemen J(1), Ren C(1), Maugenest AM(1), Schipper 
M(2), De Jaegere PP(1), Van Mieghem NM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Pathology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the value of left vertebral artery filter protection in 
addition to the current filter-based embolic protection technology to achieve 
complete cerebral protection during TAVR.
BACKGROUND: The occurrence of cerebrovascular events after transcatheter aortic 
valve replacement (TAVR) has fueled concern for its potential application in 
younger patients with longer life expectancy. Transcatheter cerebral embolic 
protection (TCEP) devices may limit periprocedural cerebrovascular events by 
preventing macro and micro-embolization to the brain. Conventional filter-based 
TCEP devices cover three extracranial contributories to the brain, yet leave the 
left vertebral artery unprotected.
METHODS: Patients underwent TAVR with complete TCEP. A dual-filter system was 
deployed in the brachiocephalic trunk and left common carotid artery with an 
additional single filter in the left vertebral artery. After TAVR all filters 
were retrieved and sent for histopathological evaluation by an experienced 
pathologist.
RESULTS: Eleven patients received a dual-filter system and nine of them received 
an additional left vertebral filter. In the remaining two patients, the left 
vertebral filter could not be deployed. No periprocedural strokes occurred. We 
found debris in all filters, consisting of thrombus, tissue derived debris, and 
foreign body material. The left vertebral filter contained debris in an equal 
amount of patients as the Sentinel filters. The size of the captured particles 
