analyze.
CONCLUSION: This economic analysis concluded that treatment with golimumab is 
likely more cost-effective vs SoC when considering cost-effectiveness 
acceptability thresholds from $50,000-$100,000 per QALY.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2017.1371033
PMID: 28830258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Crit Care. 2017 Aug 21;21(1):220. doi: 10.1186/s13054-017-1792-0.

Costs and expected gain in lifetime health from intensive care versus general 
ward care of 30,712 individual patients: a distribution-weighted 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Lindemark F(1)(2), Haaland ØA(3), Kvåle R(4)(5), Flaatten H(4)(5)(6), Norheim 
OF(7)(3), Johansson KA(7)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Research and Development, Haukeland University Hospital, 
Bergen, Norway. frode.lindemark@uib.no.
(2)Department of Global Public Health and Primary Care, University of Bergen, 
Bergen, Norway. frode.lindemark@uib.no.
(3)Department of Global Public Health and Primary Care, University of Bergen, 
Bergen, Norway.
(4)Norwegian Intensive Care Registry, Helse Bergen HF, Bergen, Norway.
(5)Department of Anesthesia and Intensive Care, Haukeland University Hospital, 
Bergen, Norway.
(6)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(7)Department of Research and Development, Haukeland University Hospital, 
Bergen, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Clinicians, hospital managers, policy makers, and researchers are 
concerned about high costs, increased demand, and variation in priorities in the 
intensive care unit (ICU). The objectives of this modelling study are to 
describe the extra costs and expected health gains associated with admission to 
the ICU versus the general ward for 30,712 patients and the variation in 
cost-effectiveness estimates among subgroups and individuals, and to perform a 
distribution-weighted economic evaluation incorporating extra weighting to 
patients with high severity of disease.
METHODS: We used a decision-analytic model that estimates the incremental cost 
per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained (ICER) from ICU admission compared 
with general ward care using Norwegian registry data from 2008 to 2010. We 
assigned increasing weights to health gains for those with higher severity of 
disease, defined as less expected lifetime health if not admitted. The study has 
inherent uncertainty of findings because a randomized clinical trial comparing 
patients admitted or rejected to the ICU has never been performed. Uncertainty 
is explored in probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: The mean cost-effectiveness of ICU admission versus ward care was 
€11,600/QALY, with 1.6 QALYs gained and an incremental cost of €18,700 per 
patient. The probability (p) of cost-effectiveness was 95% at a threshold of 
€22,000/QALY. The mean ICER for medical admissions was €10,700/QALY (p = 97%), 
€12,300/QALY (p = 93%) for admissions after acute surgery, and €14,700/QALY (p = 
84%) after planned surgery. For individualized ICERs, there was a 50% 
probability that ICU admission was cost-effective for 85% of the patients at a 
threshold of €64,000/QALY, leaving 15% of the admissions not cost-effective. In 
the distributional evaluation, 8% of all patients had distribution-weighted 
ICERs (higher weights to gains for more severe conditions) above €64,000/QALY. 
High-severity admissions gained the most, and were more cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: On average, ICU admission versus general ward care was 
cost-effective at a threshold of €22,000/QALY (p = 95%). According to the 
individualized cost-effectiveness information, one in six ICU admissions was not 
cost-effective at a threshold of €64,000/QALY. Almost half of these admissions 
that were not cost-effective can be regarded as acceptable when weighted by 
severity of disease in terms of expected lifetime health. Overall, existing ICU 
services represent reasonable resource use, but considerable uncertainty becomes 
evident when disaggregating into individualized results.

DOI: 10.1186/s13054-017-1792-0
PMCID: PMC5567919
PMID: 28830479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The 
Data protection officer at Haukeland University Hospital approved the use of 
anonymous records from the Norwegian Intensive Care Registry (NIR). The regional 
ethics committee REK Vest has waived approval of this use of anonymous NIR data. 
COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing interests. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


938. BMC Health Serv Res. 2017 Aug 22;17(1):577. doi: 10.1186/s12913-017-2527-2.

An economic evaluation of the healthcare cost of tinnitus management in the UK.

Stockdale D(1), McFerran D(2), Brazier P(3), Pritchard C(4), Kay T(5), Dowrick 
C(6), Hoare DJ(7).

Author information:
(1)British Tinnitus Association, Ground Floor, Unit 5, Acorn Business Park, 
Woodseats Close, Sheffield, S8 0TB, UK.
(2)Colchester Hospital University NHS Foundation Trust, Lexden Rd, Colchester 
Essex, CO3 3NB, UK.
(3)Optimity Advisors, 1st Floor Kemp House, 152-160 City Rd, London, EC1V 2DW, 
UK.
(4)Wickenstones Ltd, Unit 26, 127 Olympic Avenue, Milton Park, OX14 4SA, UK.
(5)Aintree University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Lower Lane, Liverpool, L9 
7AL, UK.
(6)Department of Psychological Sciences, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, L69 
3GL, UK.
(7)NIHR Nottingham Biomedical Research Centre, Otology and Hearing Group, 
Division of Clinical Neuroscience, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, NG1 
5DU, UK. derek.hoare@nottingham.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: There is no standard treatment pathway for tinnitus patients in the 
UK. Possible therapies include education and reassurance, cognitive behavioural 
therapies, modified tinnitus retraining therapy (education and sound 
enrichment), or amplification of external sound using hearing aids. However, the 
effectiveness of most therapies is somewhat controversial. As health services 
come under economic pressure to deploy resources more effectively there is an 
increasing need to demonstrate the value of tinnitus therapies, and how value 
may be continuously enhanced. The objective of this project was to map out 
existing clinical practice, estimate the NHS costs associated with the 
management approaches used, and obtain initial indicative estimates of 
cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: Current treatment pathways, costs and health outcomes were determined 
from the tinnitus literature, national statistics, a patient survey, and expert 
opinion. These were used to create an Excel-based economic model of therapy 
options for tinnitus patients. The probabilities associated with the likelihood 
of an individual patient receiving a particular combination of therapies was 
used to calculate the average cost of treatment per patient, average health 
outcome per patient measured in QALYs gained, and cost-effectiveness, measured 
by the average cost per QALY gained.
RESULTS: The average cost of tinnitus treatment per patient per year is GB£717, 
equating to an NHS healthcare bill of GB£750 million per year. Across all 
pathways, tinnitus therapy costs £10,600 per QALY gained. Results were 
relatively insensitive to restrictions on access to cognitive behaviour therapy, 
and a subsequent reliance on other therapies.
CONCLUSIONS: NHS provisions for tinnitus are cost-effective against the National 
Institute for Health and Care Excellence cost-effective threshold. Most 
interventions help, but education alone offers very small QALY gains. The most 
cost-effective therapies in the model were delivered within audiology.

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-017-2527-2
PMCID: PMC5567641
PMID: 28830503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. Data based project. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. 
COMPETING INTERESTS: CP and PB had support from the British Tinnitus Association 
for the submitted work. DM is a Trustee of the British Tinnitus Association; DJH 
and TK are chair and member respectively of the British Society of Audiology 
Tinnitus and Hyperacusis Special Interest Group. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer 
Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps 
and institutional affiliations.


939. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2017 Oct 21;492(3):493-499. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2017.08.068. Epub 2017 Aug 19.

p-Coumaric acid enhances long-term potentiation and recovers scopolamine-induced 
learning and memory impairments.

Kim HB(1), Lee S(1), Hwang ES(1), Maeng S(2), Park JH(3).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of East-West Medical Science, Kyung Hee University, 
Deogyeong-daero, Giheung-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do, 446-701, Republic of Korea.
(2)Graduate School of East-West Medical Science, Kyung Hee University, 
Deogyeong-daero, Giheung-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do, 446-701, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: jethrot@khu.ac.kr.
(3)Graduate School of East-West Medical Science, Kyung Hee University, 
Deogyeong-daero, Giheung-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do, 446-701, Republic of Korea; 
Research Institute of Medical Nutrition, Kyung Hee University, #1732 
Deogyeong-daero, Giheung-gu, Yongin 446-702, Republic of Korea. Electronic 
address: jihopark@khu.ac.kr.

Due to the improvement of medical level, life expectancy increased. But the 
increased incidence of cognitive disorders is an emerging social problem. 
Current drugs for dementia treatment can only delay the progress rather than 
cure. p-Coumaric acid is a phenylpropanoic acid derived from aromatic amino 
acids and known as a precursor for flavonoids such as resveratrol and 
naringenin. It was shown to reduce oxidative stress, inhibit genotoxicity and 
exert neuroprotection. Based on these findings, we evaluated whether p-coumaric 
acid can protect scopolamine induced learning and memory impairment by measuring 
LTP in organotypic hippocampal slice and cognitive behaviors in rats. p-Coumaric 
acid dose-dependently increased the total activity of fEPSP after high frequency 
stimulation and attenuated scopolamine-induced blockade of fEPSP in the 
hippocampal CA1 area. In addition, while scopolamine shortened the step-through 
latency in the passive avoidance test and prolonged the latency as well as 
reduced the latency in the target quadrant in the Morris water maze test, 
co-treatment of p-coumaric acid improved avoidance memory and long-term 
retention of spatial memory in behavioral tests. Since p-coumaric acid improved 
electrophysiological and cognitive functional deterioration by scopolamine, it 
may have regulatory effects on central cholinergic synapses and is expected to 
improve cognitive problems caused by abnormality of the cholinergic nervous 
system.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2017.08.068
PMID: 28830814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Mol Cancer Ther. 2017 Nov;16(11):2572-2585. doi:
10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-17-0413.  Epub 2017 Aug 22.

Characterization of In Vivo Resistance to Osimertinib and JNJ-61186372, an 
EGFR/Met Bispecific Antibody, Reveals Unique and Consensus Mechanisms of 
Resistance.

Emdal KB(1), Dittmann A(1), Reddy RJ(1), Lescarbeau RS(1), Moores SL(2), 
Laquerre S(2), White FM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Engineering and David H. Koch Institute for 
Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts.
(2)Oncology, Janssen Research and Development, LLC, Spring House, Pennsylvania.
(3)Department of Biological Engineering and David H. Koch Institute for 
Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts. fwhite@mit.edu.

Approximately 10% of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients in the United 
States and 40% of NSCLC patients in Asia have activating epidermal growth factor 
receptor (EGFR) mutations and are eligible to receive targeted anti-EGFR 
therapy. Despite an extension of life expectancy associated with this treatment, 
resistance to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors and anti-EGFR antibodies is almost 
inevitable. To identify additional signaling routes that can be cotargeted to 
overcome resistance, we quantified tumor-specific molecular changes that govern 
resistant cancer cell growth and survival. Mass spectrometry-based quantitative 
proteomics was used to profile in vivo signaling changes in 41 therapy-resistant 
tumors from four xenograft NSCLC models. We identified unique and tumor-specific 
tyrosine phosphorylation rewiring in tumors resistant to treatment with the 
irreversible third-generation EGFR-inhibitor, osimertinib, or the novel 
dual-targeting EGFR/Met antibody, JNJ-61186372. Tumor-specific increases in 
tyrosine-phosphorylated peptides from EGFR family members, Shc1 and Gab1 or Src 
family kinase (SFK) substrates were observed, underscoring a differential 
ability of tumors to uniquely escape EGFR inhibition. Although most resistant 
tumors within each treatment group displayed a marked inhibition of EGFR as well 
as SFK signaling, the combination of EGFR inhibition (osimertinib) and SFK 
inhibition (saracatinib or dasatinib) led to further decrease in cell growth in 
vitro This result suggests that residual SFK signaling mediates therapeutic 
resistance and that elimination of this signal through combination therapy may 
delay onset of resistance. Overall, analysis of individual resistant tumors 
captured unique in vivo signaling rewiring that would have been masked by 
analysis of in vitro cell population averages. Mol Cancer Ther; 16(11); 2572-85. 
©2017 AACR.

©2017 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-17-0413
PMCID: PMC5669802
PMID: 28830985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors declare no 
potential conflicts of interest.


941. J Nephrol. 2018 Jun;31(3):435-443. doi: 10.1007/s40620-017-0429-3. Epub 2017
Aug  22.

Predictors of first ischemic lower limb ulcer in dialysis patients: an 
observational cohort study.

Andrulli S(1), Chiavenna C(2), Bigi MC(2), Crepaldi M(2), Dell'Oro C(2), Tentori 
F(2), Manzoni C(2), Bacchini G(2), Corti MM(2), Pontoriero G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology and Dialysis, Alessandro Manzoni Hospital, Via 
dell'Eremo 9, 23900, Lecco, Italy. s.andrulli@asst-lecco.it.
(2)Department of Nephrology and Dialysis, Alessandro Manzoni Hospital, Via 
dell'Eremo 9, 23900, Lecco, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Lower limb ischemia affects the quality of life, physical activity 
and life expectancy of dialysis patients. The aim of this study was to 
investigate the risk factors associated with ischemic foot ulcers considering 
clinical, laboratory and therapeutic domains.
METHODS: This observational cohort study was based on data from the Nephrology 
and Dialysis Department database of Alessandro Manzoni Hospital, Lecco (Italy). 
All of the incident patients who started dialysis between 1 January 1999 and 29 
February 2012 were enrolled, excluding temporary guests, patients with acute 
renal failure and patients with previous limb ischemia or amputation. 
Multivariate Cox regression analysis identified the predictors in each domain, 
which were matched in the final model. A time-dependent approach was used to 
take into account the evolution of some of the prognostic covariates.
RESULTS: Of the 526 incident dialysis patients, 120 developed a lower limb 
ischemic lesion after a median of 13 months. The incidence of new ulcers was 
constant during the study period (6 per 100 person-years), but higher in the 
diabetics with a relative rate of 4.5. The variables significantly related to an 
increased risk of lower limb ulcers were age, male gender, diabetes, ischemic 
heart disease, treatment with proton pump inhibitors, iron, anticoagulants and 
calcium-based binders, and blood levels of phosphorus, triglycerides and 
C-reactive protein.
CONCLUSION: The incidence of lower limb ulcers was highest during the early 
dialysis follow-up and was associated with, in addition to diabetes, modifiable 
laboratory and therapeutic predictors such as anticoagulants, proton pump 
inhibitors, calcium-containing binders, calcimimetics and iron.

DOI: 10.1007/s40620-017-0429-3
PMID: 28831705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Nurs Stand. 2017 Aug 23;31(52):64-65. doi: 10.7748/ns.31.52.64.s46.

Reducing health inequalities.

Mason C(1).

Author information:
(1)Elizabeth Court, Stevenage.

What was the nature of the CPD activity, practice-related feedback and/or event 
and/or experience in your practice? The article outlined the health inequalities 
that people with serious mental illness (SMI) may experience. It acknowledged 
the barriers they often encounter in accessing healthcare services, and 
discussed how lifestyle behaviours, symptoms of mental illness and the side 
effects of medication can contribute to reduced life expectancy.

DOI: 10.7748/ns.31.52.64.s46
PMID: 28831890


943. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2017;161:D880.

[Initiating patients on home mechanical ventilation].

[Article in Dutch]

de Mul N(1), van der Steen MS, Gaytant MA, Tjan DHT.

Author information:
(1)Ziekenhuis Gelderse Vallei, afd. Intensive Care, Ede.

More and more patients with chronic respiratory insufficiency are eligible for 
home mechanical ventilation. As a result, medical doctors are increasingly 
confronted with said patients. The treatment goal of this supporting therapy is 
to improve quality of life and possibly life extension. Centres for home 
mechanical ventilation decide on the indication, whereas the clinical setup of 
the ventilator takes place in a hospital setting. Staff in the Dutch Gelderse 
Vallei hospital have been initiating - both non-invasive and invasive - home 
mechanical ventilation for various patient groups for the last 4 years. This is 
a labour-intensive process during which numerous issues can occur. Experience 
and expertise is necessary for a successful process. A multidisciplinary 
approach and accessible consultation between stakeholders is of great importance 
when setting up home mechanical ventilation for these patients.

PMID: 28831933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. PLoS One. 2017 Aug 23;12(8):e0183623. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0183623. 
eCollection 2017.

Variants of sequence family B Thermococcus kodakaraensis DNA polymerase with 
increased mismatch extension selectivity.

Huber C(1), Marx A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Konstanz, Konstanz, Germany.

Fidelity and selectivity of DNA polymerases are critical determinants for the 
biology of life, as well as important tools for biotechnological applications. 
DNA polymerases catalyze the formation of DNA strands by adding deoxynucleotides 
to a primer, which is complementarily bound to a template. To ensure the 
integrity of the genome, DNA polymerases select the correct nucleotide and 
further extend the nascent DNA strand. Thus, DNA polymerase fidelity is pivotal 
for ensuring that cells can replicate their genome with minimal error. DNA 
polymerases are, however, further optimized for more specific biotechnological 
or diagnostic applications. Here we report on the semi-rational design of mutant 
libraries derived by saturation mutagenesis at single sites of a 
3'-5'-exonuclease deficient variant of Thermococcus kodakaraensis DNA polymerase 
(KOD pol) and the discovery for variants with enhanced mismatch extension 
selectivity by screening. Sites of potential interest for saturation mutagenesis 
were selected by their proximity to primer or template strands. The resulting 
libraries were screened via quantitative real-time PCR. We identified three 
variants with single amino acid exchanges-R501C, R606Q, and R606W-which 
exhibited increased mismatch extension selectivity. These variants were further 
characterized towards their potential in mismatch discrimination. Additionally, 
the identified enzymes were also able to differentiate between cytosine and 
5-methylcytosine. Our results demonstrate the potential in characterizing and 
developing DNA polymerases for specific PCR based applications in DNA 
biotechnology and diagnostics.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0183623
PMCID: PMC5568139
PMID: 28832623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


945. Cad Saude Publica. 2017 Aug 21;33(8):e00080316. doi:
10.1590/0102-311X00080316.

Health transition in Brazil: regional variations and divergence/convergence in 
mortality.

Borges GM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística, Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.
(2)University of California, Berkeley, U.S.A.

This study analyzes the main characteristics of the health transition in Brazil 
and its five major regions, using a framework that accounts for regional 
inequalities in mortality trends. The regional mortality divergence/convergence 
process is described and discussed by considering the specific contributions of 
age groups and causes of death in life expectancy variations. Results show that 
mortality change in Brazil has follow the epidemiologic transition theory to 
some extent during the period under analysis - for instance, the sharp decline 
in infant mortality in all regions (first from infectious and parasitic diseases 
and then from causes associated with the perinatal period) and the increase in 
the participation of chronic and degenerative diseases as the main cause of 
death. However, some features of Brazilian transition have not followed the 
linear and unidirectional pattern proposed by the epidemiologic transition 
theory, which helps to understand the periods of regional divergence in life 
expectancy, despite the long-term trends showing reducing regional inequalities. 
The emergence of HIV/AIDS, the persistence of relatively high levels of other 
infections and parasitic diseases, the regional differences in the unexpected 
mortality improvements from cardiovascular diseases, and the rapid and strong 
variations in mortality from external causes are some of the examples.

DOI: 10.1590/0102-311X00080316
PMID: 28832781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Cad Saude Publica. 2017 Aug 21;33(8):e00096117. doi:
10.1590/0102-311X00096117.

[Contradictions and the cost-effectiveness threshold].

[Article in Portuguese]

Santos MDS(1), Pinto M(2), Trajman A(3).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Cardiologia, Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.
(2)Instituto Nacional de Saúde da Mulher, da Criança e do Adolescente Fernandes 
Figueira, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.
(3)Instituto de Medicina Social, Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Rio 
de Janeiro, Brasil.

Comment in
    Cad Saude Publica. 2017 Aug 21;33(8):e00121517.

Comment on
    Cad Saude Publica. 2017 May 18;33(4):e00040717.

DOI: 10.1590/0102-311X00096117
PMID: 28832782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Cad Saude Publica. 2017 Aug 21;33(8):e00206516. doi:
10.1590/0102-311X00206516.

[How much does the backlog on drug patents cost for health in Brazil?].

[Article in Portuguese]

Jannuzzi AHL(1)(2), Vasconcellos AG(3).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia, Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.
(2)Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico, Brasília, 
Brasil.
(3)Academia de Propriedade Intelectual, Instituto Nacional da Propriedade 
Industrial, Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.

The backlog in processing patent applications in Brazil has persisted since the 
enactment of Law 9,279/1996, when the country resumed granting patents on drugs. 
The agencies responsible for granting such patents, namely the Brazilian 
National Patent and Trademark Office (INPI) and the Brazilian National Health 
Surveillance Agency (Anvisa) cite technical and administrative reasons for the 
backlog. However, little research has focused on the economic impacts for health 
due to the inefficiency of the Brazilian patent system. The current study thus 
proposes a methodology to estimate the extent to which government procurement of 
medicines is burdened by the backlog in drug patent applications. According to 
the results, a total of more than BRL 14 million (USD 4.5 million) is spent 
unnecessarily per year by the Federal Government on just one antiretroviral drug 
due to the extension of the respective patent's life. Measures to resolve this 
situation are urgently needed in the three branches of government. These include 
hiring more staff for the INPI, analysis of bills of law under review in the two 
houses of the Brazilian Congress to amend the Industrial Property Law, and 
ruling on direct class action claims of unconstitutionality to suppress the 
legal mechanisms that allow extending the life of patents.

DOI: 10.1590/0102-311X00206516
PMID: 28832788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. JAMA Cardiol. 2017 Oct 1;2(10):1069-1078. doi: 10.1001/jamacardio.2017.2762.

Cost-effectiveness of Evolocumab Therapy for Reducing Cardiovascular Events in 
Patients With Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease.

Fonarow GC(1)(2), Keech AC(3), Pedersen TR(4), Giugliano RP(5), Sever PS(6), 
Lindgren P(7), van Hout B(8), Villa G(9), Qian Y(10), Somaratne R(10), Sabatine 
MS(5)(11).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Ronald Reagan University of California, Los Angeles 
Medical Center.
(2)Associate Editor.
(3)National Health and Medical Research Council Clinical Trials Centre, Sydney 
Medical School, the University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(4)Center for Preventive Medicine, Oslo University Hospital, Ullevål and Medical 
Faculty, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(5)TIMI Study Group, Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.
(6)International Centre for Circulatory Health, National Heart and Lung 
Institute, Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom.
(7)The Swedish Institute for Health Economics, Lund and Department of Learning, 
Informatics, Management and Ethics, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.
(8)ScHARR School for Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, England.
(9)Economic Modeling CoE, Amgen (Europe) GmbH, Zug, Switzerland.
(10)Amgen Inc, Thousand Oaks, California.
(11)Deputy Editor.

Erratum in
    JAMA Cardiol. 2017 Oct 1;2(10):1170.

Comment in
    JAMA Cardiol. 2017 Oct 1;2(10):1066-1068.
    JAMA Cardiol. 2017 Dec 1;2(12):1298-1299.

IMPORTANCE: The proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 inhibitor 
evolocumab has been demonstrated to reduce the composite of myocardial 
infarction, stroke, or cardiovascular death in patients with established 
atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. To our knowledge, long-term 
cost-effectiveness of this therapy has not been evaluated using clinical trial 
efficacy data.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of evolocumab in patients with 
atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease when added to standard background 
therapy.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A Markov cohort state-transition model was 
used, integrating US population-specific demographics, risk factors, background 
therapy, and event rates along with trial-based event risk reduction. Costs, 
including price of drug, utilities, and transitional probabilities, were 
included from published sources.
EXPOSURES: Addition of evolocumab to standard background therapy including 
statins.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Cardiovascular events including myocardial 
infarction, ischemic stroke and cardiovascular death, quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY), incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), and net value-based price.
RESULTS: In the base case, using US clinical practice patients with 
atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease with low-density lipoprotein cholesterol 
levels of at least 70 mg/dL (to convert to millimoles per liter, multiply by 
0.0259) and an annual events rate of 6.4 per 100 patient-years, evolocumab was 
associated with increased cost and improved QALY: incremental cost, $105 398; 
incremental QALY, 0.39, with an ICER of $268 637 per QALY gained ($165 689 with 
discounted price of $10 311 based on mean rebate of 29% for branded 
pharmaceuticals). Sensitivity and scenario analyses demonstrated ICERs ranging 
from $100 193 to $488 642 per QALY, with ICER of $413 579 per QALY for trial 
patient characteristics and event rate of 4.2 per 100 patient-years ($270 192 
with discounted price of $10 311) and $483 800 if no cardiovascular mortality 
reduction emerges. Evolocumab treatment exceeded $150 000 per QALY in most 
scenarios but would meet this threshold at an annual net price of $9669 ($6780 
for the trial participants) or with the discounted net price of $10 311 in 
patients with low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels of at least 80 mg/dL.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: At its current list price of $14 523, the addition of 
evolocumab to standard background therapy in patients with atherosclerotic 
cardiovascular disease exceeds generally accepted cost-effectiveness thresholds. 
To achieve an ICER of $150 000 per QALY, the annual net price would need to be 
substantially lower ($9669 for US clinical practice and $6780 for trial 
participants), or a higher-risk population would need to be treated.

DOI: 10.1001/jamacardio.2017.2762
PMCID: PMC5710446
PMID: 28832867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: All authors 
have completed and submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure of Potential 
Conflicts of Interest. Dr Fonarow reports consulting for Amgen, Janssen, and 
Novartis. Dr Keech reports grants and personal fees from Abbott, Amgen, 
AstraZeneca, and Pfizer; grants and personal fees from Mylan and Sanofi; and is 
the recipient of a National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia 
Senior Principal Research Fellowship award. Dr Pedersen reports research grant 
support through his institution from Amgen and honoraria from Amgen, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, the Medicines Company, Merck, and Sanofi. Dr Giugliano reports 
research grant support through Brigham and Women’s Hospital from Amgen, 
Daiichi-Sankyo, and Merck, and honoraria from Amgen, Angel Med, Beckman-Coulter, 
Boehringer-Ingelheim, Bristol-MyersSquibb, CVS Caremark, Daiichi-Sankyo, 
GlaxoSmithKline, Janssen, Lexicon, Merck, Portola, Pfizer, Regeneron, Sanofi, St 
Jude, and Stealth Peptides. Dr Sever reports research grant support through 
Imperial College from Amgen and is a recipient of an NIHR Senior Investigator 
Award and receives support from the Biomedical Research Centre Award to Imperial 
College Healthcare National Health Services Trust. Drs Lindgren and van Hout 
report consulting for Amgen. Dr Villa is an employee of Amgen (Europe), and Drs 
Qian and Somaratne are employees and stockholders of Amgen Inc. Dr Sabatine 
reports research grant support through Brigham and Women’s Hospital from Abbott 
Laboratories, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Critical Diagnostics, Daiichi-Sankyo, Eisai, 
Genzyme, Gilead, GlaxoSmithKline, Intarcia, Janssen Research Development, 
MedImmune, Merck, Novartis, Poxel, Roche Diagnostics, and Takeda and honoraria 
from Alnylam, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Cubist, CVS Caremark, Esperion, Intarcia, 
Ionis, Janssen Research and Development, Medicines Company, MedImmune, Merck, 
MyoKardia, and Zeus Scientific. No other disclosures were reported.


949. Cancer. 2017 Oct 1;123(19):3673-3680. doi: 10.1002/cncr.30842. Epub 2017 Aug
21.

Comparison of recommendations for screening mammography using CISNET models.

Arleo EK(1), Hendrick RE(2), Helvie MA(3), Sickles EA(4).

Author information:
(1)Weill Cornell Imaging at New York-Presbyterian, New York, New York.
(2)Department of Radiology, University of Colorado-Denver, School of Medicine, 
Denver, Colorado.
(3)Department of Radiology and Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of 
Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor, MI.
(4)Department of Radiology, University of California, San Francisco, California.

Comment in
    Cancer. 2017 Oct 1;123(19):3656-3659.
    Cancer. 2018 Mar 15;124(6):1297-1298.
    Cancer. 2018 Mar 15;124(6):1298-1299.
    Cancer. 2018 Mar 1;124(5):1083-1084.
    Cancer. 2018 Mar 1;124(5):1084.

BACKGROUND: Currently, there are several different recommendations for screening 
mammography from major national health care organizations, including: 1) annual 
screening at ages 40 to 84 years; 2) screening annually at ages 45 to 54 years, 
then biennially at ages 55 to 79 years; and 3) biennial screening at ages 50 to 
74 years.
METHODS: Mean values of six Cancer Intervention and Surveillance Modeling 
Network (CISNET) models were used to compare these three screening mammography 
recommendations in terms of benefits and risks.
RESULTS: Mean mortality reduction was greatest with the recommendation of annual 
screening at ages 40 to 84 years (39.6%), compared with the hybrid 
recommendation of screening annually at ages 45 to 54 years, then biennially at 
ages 55 to 79 years (30.8%), and the recommendation of biennial screening at 
ages 50 to 74 years (23.2%). For a single-year cohort of US women aged 40 years, 
assuming 100% compliance, more breast cancers deaths would be averted over their 
lifetime with annual screening starting at age 40 (29,369) than with the hybrid 
recommendation (22,829) or biennial screening ages 50-74 (17,153 based on 2009 
CISNET estimates, 15,599 based on 2016 CISNET estimates). To achieve the 
greatest mortality benefit, this single-year cohort of women would have the 
greatest total number of screening mammograms, benign recalls, and benign 
biopsies performed over the course of screening by following annual screening 
starting at age 40 years (90.2 million, 6.8 million, and 481,269, respectively) 
than by following the hybrid recommendation (49.0 million, 4.1 million, and 
286,288, respectively) or biennial screening at ages 50 to 74 years (27.3 
million, 2.3 million, and 162,885, respectively).
CONCLUSION: CISNET models demonstrate that the greatest mortality reduction is 
achieved with annual screening of women starting at age 40 years. Cancer 
2017;123:3673-3680. © 2017 American Cancer Society.

© 2017 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.30842
PMID: 28832983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Clin Cardiol. 2017 Nov;40(11):1068-1075. doi: 10.1002/clc.22772. Epub 2017
Aug  21.

Home monitoring after ambulatory implanted primary cardiac implantable 
electronic devices: The home ambulance pilot study.

Parahuleva MS(1), Soydan N(2), Divchev D(1), Lüsebrink U(1), Schieffer B(1), 
Erdogan A(2).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine/Cardiology and Angiology Department, University Hospital of 
Giessen and Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(2)Internist Practice Center, Balserische Stiftung Hospital, Giessen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The Home Monitoring (HM) system of cardiac implantable electronic 
devices (CIEDs) permits early detection of arrhythmias or device system 
failures. The aim of this pilot study was to examine how the safety and efficacy 
of the HM system in patients after ambulatory implanted primary CIEDs compare to 
patients with a standard procedure and hospitalization.
HYPOTHESIS: We hypothesized that HM and their modifications would be a useful 
extension of the present concepts for ambulatory implanted CIEDs.
METHODS: This retrospective analysis evaluates telemetric data obtained from 364 
patients in an ambulatory single center over 6 years. Patients were assigned to 
an active group (n = 217), consisting of those who were discharged early on the 
day of implantation of the primary CIED, or to a control group (n = 147), 
consisting of those discharged and followed up with the HM system according to 
usual medical practices.
RESULTS: The mean duration of hospitalization was 73.2% shorter in the active 
group than in the control group, corresponding to 20.5 ± 13 fewer hours (95% 
confidence interval [CI]: 6.3-29.5; P < 0.01) spent in the hospital (7.5 ± 1.5 
vs 28 ± 4.5 h). This shorter mean hospital stay was attributable to a 78.8% 
shorter postoperative period in the active group. The proportion of patients 
with treatment-related adverse events was 11% (n = 23) in the active group and 
17% (n = 25) in the control group (95% CI: 5.5-8.3; P = 0.061). This 6% absolute 
risk reduction (95% CI: 3.3-9.1; P = 0.789) confirmed the noninferiority of the 
ambulatory implanted CIED when compared with standard management of these 
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Early discharge with the HM system after ambulatory CIED 
implantation was safe and not inferior to the classic medical procedure. Thus, 
together with lower costs, HM and its modifications would be a useful extension 
of the present concepts for ambulatory implanted CIEDs.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/clc.22772
PMCID: PMC6490439
PMID: 28833266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no potential conflicts of 
interest.


951. Environ Toxicol Chem. 2018 Feb;37(2):376-384. doi: 10.1002/etc.3956. Epub
2017  Dec 18.

The importance of maintenance conditions of Daphnia magna Straus as a test 
organism for ecotoxicological analysis.

Olkova AS(1), Kantor GY(1)(2), Kutyavina TI(1), Ashikhmina TY(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Vyatka State University, Kirov, Russia.
(2)Institute of Biology of Komi Scientific Centre of the Ural Branch of the 
Russian Academy of Sciences, Syktyvkar, Russia.

Insufficient attention to the standardization of conditions for test organisms 
can lead to a distortion of bioassay results by changing the characteristics of 
the culture. The present study deals with the influence of abiotic factors 
(temperature of cultivated water, its chemical composition, season of the year) 
and biotic factors (seeding density) on the culture of Daphnia magna Straus. The 
natural mortality of D. magna is described by the Gompertz equation. One of the 
parameters of the equation related to daily increase of mortality is very 
stable, and we suggest monitoring its constancy as a sign of the health of D. 
magna culture. Seeding density of crustaceans affects both the fertility of 
species and their mortality. We observed a high degree of compensation for the 
natural death of adults with increasing fertility for groups of 10 and 25 
species living in 1 L of water; the current population density of D. magna 
regulates the birth rate of juveniles. If the density is 50 individuals/L, the 
compensatory effect is reduced. Keeping Daphnia in small groups (for example, 10 
individuals) and an increase in temperature from 20 to 25 °C reduces the average 
life expectancy. Therefore, when choosing a test protocol to determine chronic 
toxicity, it is important to pay attention to the seeding density of Daphnia, 
the optimal value being approximately 25 individuals/L. Sensitivity of D. magna 
depends on the season: it is maximal in winter and minimal in spring and summer. 
In addition, crustaceans' sensitivity increases when they are kept in water with 
low content of natural salts. Environ Toxicol Chem 2018;37:376-384. © 2017 
SETAC.

© 2017 SETAC.

DOI: 10.1002/etc.3956
PMID: 28833442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2018 Jan;33(1):121-127. doi: 10.1111/jgh.13925.

Cost-effective options for the prevention and management of gastrointestinal and 
liver disease in the Asia-Pacific region.

Roberts-Thomson IC(1), Lung T(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.
(2)The George Institute for Global Health, University of New South Wales, 
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

The Asia-Pacific region contains more than half of the world's population and is 
markedly heterogeneous in relation to income levels and the provision of public 
and private health services. For low-income countries, the major health 
priorities are child and maternal health. In contrast, priorities for 
high-income countries include vascular disease, cancer, diabetes, dementia, and 
mental health disorders as well as chronic inflammatory disorders such as 
hepatitis B and hepatitis C. Cost-effectiveness analyses are methods for 
assessing the gains in health relative to the costs of different health 
interventions. Methods for measuring health outcomes include years of life saved 
(or lost), quality-adjusted life years, and disability-adjusted life years. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio measures the cost (usually in US dollars) 
per life year saved, quality-adjusted life year gained, or disability-adjusted 
life year averted of one intervention relative to another. In low-income 
countries, approximately 50% of infant deaths (< 5 years) are caused by 
gastroenteritis, the major pathogen being rotavirus infection. Rotavirus 
vaccines appear to be cost-effective but, thus far, have not been widely 
adopted. In contrast, infant vaccination for hepatitis B is promoted in most 
countries with a striking reduction in the prevalence of infection in vaccinated 
individuals. Cost-effectiveness analyses have also been applied to newer and 
more expensive drugs for hepatitis B and C and to government-sponsored programs 
for the early detection of hepatocellular, gastric, and colorectal cancer. Most 
of these studies reveal that newer drugs and surveillance programs for cancer 
are only marginally cost-effective in the setting of a high-income country.

© 2017 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and John Wiley & 
Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.13925
PMID: 28833619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Addiction. 2018 Jun;113 Suppl 1(Suppl Suppl 1):7-18. doi: 10.1111/add.14001.
 Epub 2017 Sep 14.

Development and application of an economic model (EQUIPTMOD) to assess the 
impact of smoking cessation.

Coyle K(1), Coyle D(1)(2), Lester-George A(3), West R(4), Nemeth B(5), 
Hiligsmann M(6), Trapero-Bertran M(7)(8), Leidl R(9)(10), Pokhrel S(1); EQUIPT 
Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Institute of Environment, Health and 
Societies, Brunel University London, London, UK.
(2)School of Epidemiology, Public Health and Preventative Medicine, University 
of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(3)LeLan Solutions, Bristol, UK.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London, 
London, UK.
(5)Syreon Research Institute, Budapest, Hungary.
(6)Department of Health Services Research, School for Public Health and Primary 
Care (CAPHRI), Maastricht University, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(7)Centre of Research in Economics and Health (CRES-UPF), University Pompeu 
Fabra, Barcelona, Spain.
(8)Faculty of Economics and Social Sciences, Universitat Internacional de 
Catalunya (UIC), Barcelona, Spain.
(9)Institute of Health Economics and Health Care Management, Helmholtz Zentrum 
München (GmbH)-German Research Center for Environmental Health, Comprehensive 
Pneumology Center Munich (CPC-M), Member of the German Center for Lung Research 
(DZL), Neuherberg, Germany.
(10)Munich Center of Health Sciences, Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Although clear benefits are associated with reducing 
smoking, there is increasing pressure on public health providers to justify 
investment in tobacco control measures. Decision-makers need tools to assess the 
Return on Investment (ROI)/cost-effectiveness of programmes. The EQUIPT project 
adapted an ROI tool for England to four European countries (Germany, the 
Netherlands, Spain and Hungary). EQUIPTMOD, the economic model at the core of 
the ROI tool, is designed to assess the efficiency of packages of smoking 
cessation interventions. The objective of this paper is to describe the methods 
for EQUIPTMOD and identify key outcomes associated with continued and cessation 
of smoking.
METHODS: EQUIPTMOD uses a Markov model to estimate life-time costs, 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and life years associated with a current and 
former smoker. It uses population data on smoking prevalence, disease 
prevalence, mortality and the impact of smoking combined with associated costs 
and utility effects of disease. To illustrate the tool's potential, costs, QALYs 
and life expectancy were estimated for the average current smoker for five 
countries based on the assumptions that they continue and that they cease 
smoking over the next 12 months. Costs and effects were discounted at 
country-specific rates.
RESULTS: For illustration, over a life-time horizon, not quitting smoking within 
the next 12 months in England will reduce life expectancy by 0.66, reduce QALYs 
by 1.09 and result in £4961 higher disease-related health care costs than if the 
smoker ceased smoking in the next 12 months. For all age-sex categories, costs 
were lower and QALYs higher for those who quit smoking in the 12 months than 
those who continued.
CONCLUSIONS: EQUIPTMOD facilitates assessment of the cost effectiveness of 
smoking cessation strategies. The demonstrated results indicate large potential 
benefits from smoking cessation at both an individual and population level.

© 2017 The Authors. Addiction published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of 
Society for the Study of Addiction.

DOI: 10.1111/add.14001
PMCID: PMC6033161
PMID: 28833765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Health Econ. 2018 Jan;27(1):23-38. doi: 10.1002/hec.3560. Epub 2017 Aug 18.

New methods for modelling EQ-5D-5L value sets: An application to English data.

Feng Y(1), Devlin NJ(1)(2), Shah KK(1), Mulhern B(2)(3), van Hout B(2).

Author information:
(1)Office of Health Economics, London, UK.
(2)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
UK.
(3)Centre for Health Economics Research and Evaluation, University of Technology 
Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

Value sets for the EQ-5D-5L are required to facilitate its use in estimating 
quality-adjusted life years. An international protocol has been developed to 
guide the collection of stated preference data for this purpose and has been 
used to generate EQ-5D-5L valuation data for England. The aim of this paper is 
report the innovative methods used for modelling those data to obtain a value 
set. Nine hundred and ninety-six members of the English general public completed 
time trade-off (TTO) and discrete choice experiment (DCE) tasks. We estimate 
models, with and without interactions, using DCE data only, TTO data only, and 
TTO/DCE data combined. TTO data are interpreted as both left and right censored. 
Heteroskedasticity and preference heterogeneity between individuals are 
accounted for. We use Bayesian methods in the econometric analysis. The final 
model is chosen based on the deviance information criterion (DIC). Censoring and 
taking account of heteroskedasticity have important effects on parameter 
estimation. For DCE data only, TTO data only, and DCE/TTO data combined, models 
with parameters for all dimensions and levels perform best, as judged by the 
DIC. Taking account of heterogeneity improves fit, and the multinomial model 
reports the lowest DIC. This paper presents approaches that suit observed 
characteristics of EQ-5D-5L valuation data and recognise respondents' preference 
heterogeneity. The methods described are potentially relevant to other value set 
studies.

© 2017 The Authors Health Economics Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.3560
PMCID: PMC5836982
PMID: 28833854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Health Econ. 2018 Jan;27(1):7-22. doi: 10.1002/hec.3564. Epub 2017 Aug 22.

Valuing health-related quality of life: An EQ-5D-5L value set for England.

Devlin NJ(1)(2), Shah KK(1), Feng Y(1), Mulhern B(2)(3), van Hout B(2).

Author information:
(1)Office of Health Economics, London, UK.
(2)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
UK.
(3)Centre for Health Economics Research and Evaluation, University of Technology 
Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

A new version of the EQ-5D, the EQ-5D-5L, is available. The aim of this study is 
to produce a value set to support use of EQ-5D-5L data in decision-making. The 
study design followed an international research protocol. Randomly selected 
members of the English general public completed 10 time trade-off and 7 discrete 
choice experiment tasks in face-to-face interviews. A 20-parameter hybrid model 
was used to combine time trade-off and discrete choice experiment data to 
generate values for the 3,125 EQ-5D-5L health states. Valuation data are 
available for 996 respondents. Face validity of the data has been demonstrated, 
with more severe health states generally given lower values. Problems with 
pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression received the greatest weight. Compared to 
the existing EQ-5D-3L value set, there are considerably fewer "worse than dead" 
states (5.1%, compared with over one third), and the minimum value is higher. 
Values range from -0.285 (extreme problems on all dimensions) to 0.950 (for 
health states 11211 and 21111). Results have important implications for users of 
the EQ-5D-5L both in England and internationally. Quality-adjusted life year 
gains from interventions seeking to improve very poor health may be smaller 
using this value set and may previously have been overestimated.

© 2017 The Authors. Health Economics Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.3564
PMCID: PMC6680214
PMID: 28833869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: NJD, KKS and YF are employees of the Office of 
Health Economics, a registered charity which received funding from a variety of 
sources, including the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry. All 
authors are members of the EuroQol Group.


956. Colorectal Dis. 2017 Nov;19(11):1013-1023. doi: 10.1111/codi.13869.

Cost-effectiveness of sacral neuromodulation for chronic refractory constipation 
in children and adolescents: a Markov model analysis.

van der Wilt AA(1), Groenewoud HHM(2), Benninga MA(3), Dirksen CD(4)(5), Baeten 
CGMI(1), Bouvy ND(1), Melenhorst J(1), Breukink SO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, the 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Health Evidence, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Amsterdam Medical Center, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology Assessment, 
Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(5)CAPHRI School of Public Health and Primary Care, Maastricht University, 
Maastricht, the Netherlands.

AIM: This study aimed to assess the cost-effectiveness of sacral neuromodulation 
(SNM) compared with conservative treatment in children and adolescents with 
constipation refractory to conservative management.
METHOD: A Markov probabilistic model was used, comparing costs and effectiveness 
of SNM and conservative treatment in children and adolescents aged 10-18 years 
with constipation refractory to conservative management. Input for the model 
regarding transition probabilities, utilities and healthcare costs was based on 
data from a cohort of patients treated in our centre. This cohort consisted of 
30 female patients (mean age 16 years) with functional constipation refractory 
to conservative management. The mean duration of laxative use in this group was 
5.9 years. All patients had a test SNM, followed by a permanent SNM in 27/30. 
Median follow-up was 22.1 months (range 12.2-36.8). The model was run to 
simulate a follow-up period of 3 years.
RESULTS: The mean cumulative costs for the SNM group and the conservative 
treatment group were €17 789 (SD €2492) and €7574 (SD €4332) per patient, 
respectively. The mean quality adjusted life years (QALYs) in the SNM group was 
1.74 (SD 0.19), compared with 0.86 (SD 0.14) in the conservatively managed 
group. The mean incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was €12 328 per QALY (SD 
€4788). Sensitivity analysis showed that the outcomes were robust to a wide 
range of model assumptions.
CONCLUSION: Chronic constipation seriously affects the quality of life of 
children and adolescents. Preliminary evidence suggests that SNM can improve 
symptoms and quality of life at a reasonable cost.

Colorectal Disease © 2017 The Association of Coloproctology of Great Britain and 
Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/codi.13869
PMID: 28834055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Aging Cell. 2017 Dec;16(6):1256-1266. doi: 10.1111/acel.12656. Epub 2017 Aug
22.

Sex differences in lifespan extension with acarbose and 17-α estradiol: gonadal 
hormones underlie male-specific improvements in glucose tolerance and mTORC2 
signaling.

Garratt M(1), Bower B(1), Garcia GG(1), Miller RA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, 
MI, 48109, USA.
(2)University of Michigan Geriatrics Center, Ann Arbor, MI, 48109, USA.
