Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr. DeVore 
reports receiving research support from the American Heart Association, Amgen, 
Maquet, Novartis, and Thoratec and consulting with Maquet. Dr. Teuteberg reports 
receiving advertising board and speaking honoraria from HeartWare, Abiomed, and 
CareDx as well as receiving support from Thoratec and Sunshine Heart. The 
remaining authors have no disclosures.


917. Lancet Respir Med. 2017 Sep;5(9):691-706. doi:
10.1016/S2213-2600(17)30293-X.  Epub 2017 Aug 16.

Global, regional, and national deaths, prevalence, disability-adjusted life 
years, and years lived with disability for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
and asthma, 1990-2015: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease 
Study 2015.

GBD 2015 Chronic Respiratory Disease Collaborators.

Collaborators: Soriano JB, Abajobir AA, Abate KH, Abera SF, Agrawal A, Ahmed MB, 
Aichour AN, Aichour I, Aichour MTE, Alam K, Alam N, Alkaabi JM, Al-Maskari F, 
Alvis-Guzman N, Amberbir A, Amoako YA, Ansha MG, Antó JM, Asayesh H, Atey TM, 
Avokpaho EFGA, Barac A, Basu S, Bedi N, Bensenor IM, Berhane A, Beyene AS, 
Bhutta ZA, Biryukov S, Boneya DJ, Brauer M, Carpenter DO, Casey D, Christopher 
DJ, Dandona L, Dandona R, Dharmaratne SD, Do HP, Fischer F, Gebrehiwot TT, 
Geleto A, Ghoshal AG, Gillum RF, Ginawi IAM, Gupta V, Hay SI, Hedayati MT, 
Horita N, Hosgood HD, Jakovljevic MMB, James SL, Jonas JB, Kasaeian A, Khader 
YS, Khalil IA, Khan EA, Khang YH, Khubchandani J, Knibbs LD, Kosen S, Koul PA, 
Kumar GA, Leshargie CT, Liang X, El Razek HMA, Majeed A, Malta DC, Manhertz T, 
Marquez N, Mehari A, Mensah GA, Miller TR, Mohammad KA, Mohammed KE, Mohammed S, 
Mokdad AH, Naghavi M, Nguyen CT, Nguyen G, Le Nguyen Q, Nguyen TH, Ningrum DNA, 
Nong VM, Obi JI, Odeyemi YE, Ogbo FA, Oren E, Pa M, Park EK, Patton GC, Paulson 
K, Qorbani M, Quansah R, Rafay A, Rahman MHU, Rai RK, Rawaf S, Reinig N, Safiri 
S, Sarmiento-Suarez R, Sartorius B, Savic M, Sawhney M, Shigematsu M, Smith M, 
Tadese F, Thurston GD, Topor-Madry R, Tran BX, Ukwaja KN, van Boven JFM, Vlassov 
VV, Vollset SE, Wan X, Werdecker A, Hanson SW, Yano Y, Yimam HH, Yonemoto N, Yu 
C, Zaidi Z, El Sayed Zaki M, Lopez AD, Murray CJL, Vos T.

Erratum in
    Lancet Respir Med. 2017 Oct;5(10 ):e30.

Comment in
    Lancet Respir Med. 2017 Sep;5(9):668-669.

BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and asthma are common 
diseases with a heterogeneous distribution worldwide. Here, we present methods 
and disease and risk estimates for COPD and asthma from the Global Burden of 
Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors (GBD) 2015 study. The GBD study provides 
annual updates on estimates of deaths, prevalence, and disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs), a summary measure of fatal and non-fatal disease outcomes, for 
over 300 diseases and injuries, for 188 countries from 1990 to the most recent 
year.
METHODS: We estimated numbers of deaths due to COPD and asthma using the GBD 
Cause of Death Ensemble modelling (CODEm) tool. First, we analysed data from 
vital registration and verbal autopsy for the aggregate category of all chronic 
respiratory diseases. Subsequently, models were run for asthma and COPD relying 
on covariates to predict rates in countries that have incomplete or no vital 
registration data. Disease estimates for COPD and asthma were based on 
systematic reviews of published papers, unpublished reports, surveys, and health 
service encounter data from the USA. We used the Global Initiative of Chronic 
Obstructive Lung Disease spirometry-based definition as the reference for COPD 
and a reported diagnosis of asthma with current wheeze as the definition of 
asthma. We used a Bayesian meta-regression tool, DisMod-MR 2.1, to derive 
estimates of prevalence and incidence. We estimated population-attributable 
fractions for risk factors for COPD and asthma from exposure data, relative 
risks, and a theoretical minimum exposure level. Results were stratified by 
Socio-demographic Index (SDI), a composite measure of income per capita, mean 
years of education over the age of 15 years, and total fertility rate.
FINDINGS: In 2015, 3·2 million people (95% uncertainty interval [UI] 3·1 million 
to 3·3 million) died from COPD worldwide, an increase of 11·6% (95% UI 5·3 to 
19·8) compared with 1990. There was a decrease in age-standardised death rate of 
41·9% (37·7 to 45·1) but this was counteracted by population growth and ageing 
of the global population. From 1990 to 2015, the prevalence of COPD increased by 
44·2% (41·7 to 46·6), whereas age-standardised prevalence decreased by 14·7% 
(13·5 to 15·9). In 2015, 0·40 million people (0·36 million to 0·44 million) died 
from asthma, a decrease of 26·7% (-7·2 to 43·7) from 1990, and the 
age-standardised death rate decreased by 58·8% (39·0 to 69·0). The prevalence of 
asthma increased by 12·6% (9·0 to 16·4), whereas the age-standardised prevalence 
decreased by 17·7% (15·1 to 19·9). Age-standardised DALY rates due to COPD 
increased until the middle range of the SDI before reducing sharply. 
Age-standardised DALY rates due to asthma in both sexes decreased monotonically 
with rising SDI. The relation between with SDI and DALY rates due to asthma was 
attributed to variation in years of life lost (YLLs), whereas DALY rates due to 
COPD varied similarly for YLLs and years lived with disability across the SDI 
continuum. Smoking and ambient particulate matter were the main risk factors for 
COPD followed by household air pollution, occupational particulates, ozone, and 
secondhand smoke. Together, these risks explained 73·3% (95% UI 65·8 to 80·1) of 
DALYs due to COPD. Smoking and occupational asthmagens were the only risks 
quantified for asthma in GBD, accounting for 16·5% (14·6 to 18·7) of DALYs due 
to asthma.
INTERPRETATION: Asthma was the most prevalent chronic respiratory disease 
worldwide in 2015, with twice the number of cases of COPD. Deaths from COPD were 
eight times more common than deaths from asthma. In 2015, COPD caused 2·6% of 
global DALYs and asthma 1·1% of global DALYs. Although there are laudable 
international collaborative efforts to make surveys of asthma and COPD more 
comparable, no consensus exists on case definitions and how to measure disease 
severity for population health measurements like GBD. Comparisons between 
countries and over time are important, as much of the chronic respiratory burden 
is either preventable or treatable with affordable interventions.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2017 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2213-2600(17)30293-X
PMCID: PMC5573769
PMID: 28822787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Protist. 2017 Aug;168(4):452-466. doi: 10.1016/j.protis.2017.07.002. Epub
2017  Jul 13.

Variation in Basal Body Localisation and Targeting of Trypanosome RP2 and FOR20 
Proteins.

Harmer J(1), Qi X(1), Toniolo G(1), Patel A(1), Shaw H(1), Benson FE(1), Ginger 
ML(2), McKean PG(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health and Medicine, Division of Biomedical and Life Sciences, 
Lancaster University, Lancaster LA1 4YQ, UK.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, School of Applied Sciences, University of 
Huddersfield, Queensgate, Huddersfield, HD1 3DH, UK. Electronic address: 
M.Ginger@hud.ac.uk.
(3)Faculty of Health and Medicine, Division of Biomedical and Life Sciences, 
Lancaster University, Lancaster LA1 4YQ, UK. Electronic address: 
p.mckean@lancaster.ac.uk.

TOF-LisH-PLL motifs define FOP family proteins; some members are involved in 
flagellum assembly. The critical role of FOP family protein FOR20 is poorly 
understood. Here, we report relative localisations of the four FOP family 
proteins in parasitic Trypanosoma brucei: TbRP2, TbOFD1 and TbFOP/FOP1-like are 
mature basal body proteins whereas TbFOR20 is present on pro- and mature basal 
bodies - on the latter it localises distal to TbRP2. We discuss how the data, 
together with published work for another protist Giardia intestinalis, informs 
on likely FOR20 function. Moreover, our localisation study provides convincing 
evidence that the antigen recognised by monoclonal antibody YL1/2 at trypanosome 
mature basal bodies is FOP family protein TbRP2, not tyrosinated α-tubulin as 
widely stated in the literature. Curiously, FOR20 proteins from T. brucei and 
closely related African trypanosomes possess short, negatively-charged 
N-terminal extensions absent from FOR20 in other trypanosomatids and other 
eukaryotes. The extension is necessary for protein targeting, but insufficient 
to re-direct TbRP2 to probasal bodies. Yet, FOR20 from the American trypanosome 
T. cruzi, which lacks any extension, localises to pro- and mature basal bodies 
when expressed in T. brucei. This identifies unexpected variation in FOR20 
architecture that is presently unique to one clade of trypanosomatids.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.protis.2017.07.002
PMID: 28822909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2017 Oct;71(10):1014-1018. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2017-209266. Epub 2017 Aug 19.

Ecological analysis of secular trends in low birth weight births and adult 
height in Japan.

Morisaki N(1), Urayama KY(2), Yoshii K(3), Subramanian SV(4), Yokoya S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, National Center for Child Health and 
Development, Setagayaku, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Public Health, St Luke's International University, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(3)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, National Center for Child Health 
and Development, Setagayaku, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Harvard School of Public 
Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND: Japan, which currently maintains the highest life expectancy in the 
world and has experienced an impressive gain in adult height over the past 
century, has suffered a dramatic twofold increase in low birth weight (LBW) 
births since the 1970s.
METHODS: We observed secular trends in birth characteristics using 64 115 249 
live births included the vital statistics (1969-2014), as well as trends in 
average height among 3 145 521 adults born between 1969 and 1996, included in 79 
surveys conducted among a national, subnational or community population in 
Japan.
RESULTS: LBW rates exhibited a U-shaped pattern showing reductions until 
1978-1979 (5.5%), after which it increased. Conversely, average adult height 
peaked for those born during the same period (men, 171.5 cm; women, 158.5 cm), 
followed by a reduction over the next 20 years. LBW rate and adult height showed 
a strong inverse correlation (men, r=-0.98; women, r=-0.88). A prediction model 
based on birth and economical characteristics estimated the national average of 
adult height would continue to decline, to 170.0cm (95% CI 169.6 to 170.3) for 
men and 157.9cm (95% CI 157.5 to 158.3) for women among those born in 2014.
CONCLUSIONS: Adult height in Japan has started to decline for those born after 
1980, a trend that may be attributed to increases in LBW births over time. 
Considering the known association between shorter adult height and adverse 
health outcomes, evidence of population-level decline in adult health due to 
long-term consequences of increasing LBW births in Japan is anticipated.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2017. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2017-209266
PMID: 28822978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


920. Pediatr Neonatol. 2018 Apr;59(2):211-213. doi: 10.1016/j.pedneo.2017.07.005.
 Epub 2017 Jul 31.

Losartan in combination with propranolol slows the aortic root dilatation in 
neonatal Marfan syndrome.

Liu LH(1), Lin SM(2), Lin DS(3), Chen MR(4).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Cardiology Department, Hsinchu Mackay Memorial Hospital, Hsinchu, 
Taiwan; Pediatric Cardiology Department, Mackay Children's Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(2)Pediatric Cardiology Department, Mackay Children's Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Pediatric Genetics Department, MacKay Children's Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan; 
Mackay Junior College of Medicine, Nursing and Management, Taipei, Taiwan; 
Mackay Medical College, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Pediatric Cardiology Department, Mackay Children's Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan; 
Mackay Junior College of Medicine, Nursing and Management, Taipei, Taiwan; 
Mackay Medical College, Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address: mingren44@gmail.com.

Neonatal Marfan syndrome, in contrast to classical Marfan syndrome, is 
characterized by rapidly progressive multi-valvular cardiac disease and death 
from congestive heart failure, typically within the first year of life. Due to 
the rarity of this condition, treatment for neonatal Marfan syndrome has not 
been well studied. In this report, a combination of losartan and propranolol 
reduced the aortic root dilatation rate after three months of losartan therapy. 
Genetic analysis in this patient revealed a mutation in exon 25 of the FBN1 
gene, which typically results in a shorter life expectancy. However, the 
patient's heart failure was controlled by losartan, propranolol and other 
anti-congestive medications, which may have prolonged his survival.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pedneo.2017.07.005
PMID: 28823387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin (Engl Ed). 2019 Jan;37(1):50-55. doi: 
10.1016/j.eimc.2017.06.007. Epub 2017 Aug 17.

Executive summary of the consensus document on metabolic disorders and 
cardiovascular risk in patients with HIV infection.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Panel of Experts from the Metabolic Disorders and Comorbilities Study Group 
(GEAM)(1); Aids Study Group (GeSIDA)(1); National Aids Plan (PNS). Electronic 
address: rpolor@msssi.es(1).

Author information:
(1)Secretaría del Plan Nacional sobre el Sida, Ministerio de Sanidad, Servicios 
Sociales e Igualdad, Madrid, España.

Patients with HIV infection have a higher cardiovascular risk than the general 
population. The identification of patients with high CVR, the implementation of 
preventive measures and the control of modifiable risk factors, especially in 
patients on antiretroviral therapy should be part of the management of HIV 
infection. This document updates the recommendations published in 2014, mainly 
regarding lipid, glucose, arterial hypertension alterations and cardiovascular 
risk (CVR). The objective of metabolic monitoring is A1C ≤7%, similar to that of 
non-infected population, individualising by age, life expectancy, comorbidities, 
hypoglycaemia risk and costs. Cardiovascular risk should be calculated in all 
HIV patients with a risk calculator available for clinical use, even though we 
recommend the use of REGICOR tables as we are treating the Spanish population. 
Proper measurement of blood pressure should be a routine practice in the care of 
patients with HIV infection. The aim of this document is to provide tools for 
the diagnosis and appropriate treatment of the main metabolic alterations to 
serve as a reference to professionals who care for people with HIV infection.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier España, S.L.U. and Sociedad Española de Enfermedades 
Infecciosas y Microbiología Clínica. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eimc.2017.06.007
PMID: 28823613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. J Urol. 2018 Jan;199(1):140-146. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2017.08.076. Epub 2017
Aug  18.

Comparative Analysis of Partial Gland Ablation and Radical Prostatectomy to 
Treat Low and Intermediate Risk Prostate Cancer: Oncologic and Functional 
Outcomes.

Garcia-Barreras S(1), Sanchez-Salas R(2), Sivaraman A(3), Barret E(1), Secin 
F(4), Nunes-Silva I(1), Linares-Espinós E(5), Rozet F(1), Galiano M(1), 
Cathelineau X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Institut Mutualiste Montsouris, Université 
Paris-Descartes, Paris, France.
(2)Department of Urology, Institut Mutualiste Montsouris, Université 
Paris-Descartes, Paris, France. Electronic address: raersas@gmail.com.
(3)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York.
(4)CEMIC University Hospital, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(5)Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, Spain.

PURPOSE: We analyzed the oncologic and functional outcomes of partial gland 
ablation compared with robot-assisted radical prostatectomy in patients with low 
and intermediate risk prostate cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 1,883 patients underwent robot-assisted 
radical prostatectomy and 373 underwent partial gland ablation from July 2009 to 
September 2015. We selected 1,458 of these participants for analysis, including 
1,222 and 236 treated with robot-assisted radical prostatectomy and partial 
gland ablation, respectively. Patients had a Gleason score of 3 + 3 or 3 + 4, 
clinical stage T2b or less, prostate specific antigen 15 ng/dl or less, 
unilateral disease and life expectancy greater than 10 years. Propensity score 
matching analysis (1:2) was applied in the overall robot-assisted radical 
prostatectomy sample, which selected 472 patients for comparison. For partial 
gland ablation 188 men underwent high intensity focused ultrasound and 48 
underwent cryotherapy. Oncologic outcomes were analyzed in terms of the need for 
salvage treatment. Partial gland ablation failure was defined as any positive 
control biopsy after treatment. Functional outcomes were assessed by validated 
questionnaires.
RESULTS: Matching was successful across the 2 groups, although men treated with 
partial gland ablation were older (p <0.001). Mean followup in the partial gland 
ablation group was 38.44 months. Partial gland ablation failure was observed in 
68 men (28.8%), including 53 (28.1%) treated with high intensity focused 
ultrasound and 15 (31.2%) treated with cryotherapy. Partial gland ablation was 
associated with a higher risk of salvage treatment (HR 6.06, p <0.001). 
Complications were comparable between the groups (p = 0.06). Robot-assisted 
radical prostatectomy was associated with less continence recovery and a lower 
potency rate 3, 6 and 12 months after surgery (p <0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: In select patients with organ confined prostate cancer partial 
gland ablation offered good oncologic control with fewer adverse effects that 
required additional treatments. Potency and continence appeared to be better 
preserved after partial gland ablation.

Copyright © 2018 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2017.08.076
PMID: 28823768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Neurosci Lett. 2017 Sep 29;658:85-90. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2017.08.033.
Epub  2017 Aug 18.

Excitatory-inhibitory imbalance in the brain of the wobbler mouse model of 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis substantiated by riluzole and diazepam.

Andreasen SR(1), Lundbye CJ(2), Christensen TB(2), Thielsen KD(1), Schmitt-John 
T(3), Holm MM(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedicine, Aarhus University, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark.
(2)Department of Biomedicine, Aarhus University, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark; 
Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Aarhus University, DK-8000 Aarhus 
C, Denmark.
(3)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Aarhus University, DK-8000 
Aarhus C, Denmark.
(4)Department of Biomedicine, Aarhus University, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark. 
Electronic address: mmh@biomed.au.dk.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease. 
So far, no cure exists, prompting studies in disease mechanisms to facilitate 
development of new treatment strategies. In this study, we employed the wobbler 
mouse model of ALS focusing on a symptomatic group of animals. We studied the 
neurophysiological changes conferred by riluzole or diazepam application, two 
drugs employed in ALS. Riluzole is an antiglutamatergic agent and the only drug 
to offer some effect on the life expectancy of ALS patients. To target the 
inhibitory system, we utilized diazepam as a GABAergic modulator. Acute brain 
slices were prepared from the wobbler mouse model and analyzed using 
extracellular field recordings in the hippocampus. During Schaffer collateral 
stimulation, riluzole caused a marked reduction in the paired-pulse ratio 
(p<0.0001). Importantly, this reduction was more pronounced in wobbler slices 
(e.g. 184.2±8.9% at 20ms interval without riluzole, and 124.3±9.8% in the 
presence of riluzole) compared to control slices (at 20ms: from 198.7±5.8% to 
160.5±6.7%). Diazepam caused less pronounced effects at wobbler slices and 
reduced the paired-pulse ratio more in control animals compared to wobbler 
individuals (p<0.0001). Comparable results were obtained during trains of 
stimulations (10 pulses at 20Hz). Importantly, paired-pulse ratios as well as 
synaptic facilitation were overall similar in control and wobbler slices, 
without the drugs present, indicating that the differences were only revealed 
pharmacologically. In summary, the present data support excitatory-inhibitory 
imbalances in the brain of the wobbler mouse and further consolidate this mouse 
as an animal model of ALS.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2017.08.033
PMID: 28823891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Front Microbiol. 2017 Aug 7;8:1501. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.01501.
eCollection  2017.

Application of Nanotechnology in Food Science: Perception and Overview.

Singh T(1), Shukla S(2), Kumar P(3), Wahla V(1), Bajpai VK(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Gurukula Kangri UniversityHaridwar, India.
(2)Department of Energy and Materials Engineering, Dongguk 
University-SeoulSeoul, South Korea.
(3)Department of Forestry, North Eastern Regional Institute of Science and 
TechnologyItanagar, India.
(4)Department of Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology, Yeungnam 
UniversityGyeongsan-si, South Korea.

Erratum in
    Front Microbiol. 2017 Dec 12;8:2517.

Recent innovations in nanotechnology have transformed a number of scientific and 
industrial areas including the food industry. Applications of nanotechnology 
have emerged with increasing need of nanoparticle uses in various fields of food 
science and food microbiology, including food processing, food packaging, 
functional food development, food safety, detection of foodborne pathogens, and 
shelf-life extension of food and/or food products. This review summarizes the 
potential of nanoparticles for their uses in the food industry in order to 
provide consumers a safe and contamination free food and to ensure the consumer 
acceptability of the food with enhanced functional properties. Aspects of 
application of nanotechnology in relation to increasing in food nutrition and 
organoleptic properties of foods have also been discussed briefly along with a 
few insights on safety issues and regulatory concerns on nano-processed food 
products.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.01501
PMCID: PMC5545585
PMID: 28824605


925. Sensors (Basel). 2017 Aug 21;17(8):1925. doi: 10.3390/s17081925.

Crack Monitoring of Operational Wind Turbine Foundations.

Perry M(1), McAlorum J(2), Fusiek G(3), Niewczas P(4), McKeeman I(5), Rubert 
T(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering, University of Strathclyde, 
Glasgow G1 1XJ, UK. m.perry@strath.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Electronic & Electrical Engineering, University of Strathclyde, 
Glasgow G1 1XQ, UK. jack.mcalorum@strath.ac.uk.
(3)Department of Electronic & Electrical Engineering, University of Strathclyde, 
Glasgow G1 1XQ, UK. g.fusiek@strath.ac.uk.
(4)Department of Electronic & Electrical Engineering, University of Strathclyde, 
Glasgow G1 1XQ, UK. p.niewczas@strath.ac.uk.
(5)Department of Electronic & Electrical Engineering, University of Strathclyde, 
Glasgow G1 1XQ, UK. iain.mckeeman@strath.ac.uk.
(6)Department of Electronic & Electrical Engineering, University of Strathclyde, 
Glasgow G1 1XQ, UK. tim.rubert@strath.ac.uk.

The degradation of onshore, reinforced-concrete wind turbine foundations is 
usually assessed via above-ground inspections, or through lengthy excavation 
campaigns that suspend wind power generation. Foundation cracks can and do occur 
below ground level, and while sustained measurements of crack behaviour could be 
used to quantify the risk of water ingress and reinforcement corrosion, these 
cracks have not yet been monitored during turbine operation. Here, we outline 
the design, fabrication and field installation of subterranean fibre-optic 
sensors for monitoring the opening and lateral displacements of foundation 
cracks during wind turbine operation. We detail methods for in situ sensor 
characterisation, verify sensor responses against theoretical tower strains 
derived from wind speed data, and then show that measured crack displacements 
correlate with monitored tower strains. Our results show that foundation crack 
opening displacements respond linearly to tower strain and do not change by more 
than ±5 μ m. Lateral crack displacements were found to be negligible. We 
anticipate that the work outlined here will provide a starting point for 
real-time, long-term and dynamic analyses of crack displacements in future. Our 
findings could furthermore inform the development of cost-effective monitoring 
systems for ageing wind turbine foundations.

DOI: 10.3390/s17081925
PMCID: PMC5580231
PMID: 28825687

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
founding sponsors had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, 
analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, and in 
the decision to publish the results.


926. Eur J Cancer. 2017 Oct;84:212-218. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2017.07.027. Epub
2017  Aug 18.

Prospective validation of a prognostic score for patients in immunotherapy phase 
I trials: The Gustave Roussy Immune Score (GRIm-Score).

Bigot F(1), Castanon E(1), Baldini C(1), Hollebecque A(1), Carmona A(2), 
Postel-Vinay S(1), Angevin E(1), Armand JP(1), Ribrag V(1), Aspeslagh S(1), 
Varga A(1), Bahleda R(1), Menis J(1), Gazzah A(1), Michot JM(1), Marabelle A(1), 
Soria JC(1), Massard C(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Paris Sud, Gustave-Roussy Cancer Campus, Drug Development 
Department, Villejuif, France.
(2)Hematology and Medical Oncology Department, Hospital Universitario Morales 
Meseguer, Calle Marqués de los Vélez s/n, Murcia, Spain.
(3)University of Paris Sud, Gustave-Roussy Cancer Campus, Drug Development 
Department, Villejuif, France. Electronic address: massard@gustaveroussy.fr.

INTRODUCTION: Life expectancy evaluation is crucial when selecting patients who 
may benefit from phase I studies. The Royal Marsden Hospital (RMH) prognostic 
score, based on three objective variables (number of metastatic sites, lactate 
dehydrogenase (LDH) and serum albumin) was validated in patients treated with 
cytotoxics and targeted therapies. We aimed to determine if those factors were 
applicable to immune-checkpoint therapies (ICTs) in phase I trials and to 
evaluate new variables that may preclude a better prognosis in patients 
receiving ICT.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We conducted a retrospective analysis of survival risk 
factors in a discovery cohort of 155 patients enrolled into ICT phase I trials 
at our institution. We computed univariate analysis and multivariate analysis 
(MVA) of demographics, clinical and biological data to assess their prognostic 
value for overall survival (OS). MVA results were used to build a prognostic 
score for OS. A validation cohort of 113 patients enrolled in phase I ICT trials 
was used to prospectively validate this score.
RESULTS: A total of 155 patients (M/F: 83/72; median age 59) receiving an 
experimental ICT between March 2012 and January 2016 were included in the 
discovery cohort. An MVA assessing the RMH score variables showed that low 
albumin (hazard ratio [HR] 1.73, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.05-2.86) and 
LDH > upper limit normal (ULN) (HR 1.88, 95% CI 1.12-3.15) were independent 
negative prognostic factors for OS. Interestingly, neutrophil-to-lymphocyte 
ratio (NLR) > 6 (HR 1.75, 95% CI 1.04-2.95) was associated with a decrease in 
OS. The number of metastases was not associated with a poorer outcome for this 
ICT cohort (HR 0.83, 95% CI 0.51-1.35). A risk score based on the results of the 
MVA (NLR > 6 = 1; LDH > ULN = 1; albumin < 35 g/l = 1) showed that patients 
presenting a high score (>1) had a significantly shorter OS (20.4 weeks; 95% CI 
5.7-35.2) compared to those with a low score (0 or 1) (68.9 weeks; 95% CI 
50-83.7) (HR 2.9, 95% CI 1.87-4.64). In the validation cohort of 113 patients, 
again the patients presenting a high score showed an inferior OS (HR 6.3, 95% CI 
2.7-14.8).
CONCLUSION: In ICT phase I trials, traditional prognostic variables included in 
the RMH score may be suboptimal to determine patient's prognosis. In this 
context, the NLR is a significant prognostic variable. The Gustave Roussy Immune 
Score, based on albumin, LDH and NLR, allows a better selection of patients for 
ICT phase I trials.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2017.07.027
PMID: 28826074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Elife. 2017 Aug 22;6:e27014. doi: 10.7554/eLife.27014.

Regulation of life span by the gut microbiota in the short-lived African 
turquoise killifish.

Smith P(1), Willemsen D(1), Popkes M(1), Metge F(1), Gandiwa E(2), Reichard 
M(3), Valenzano DR(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Biology of Ageing, Cologne, Germany.
(2)Chinhoyi University of Technology, Chinhoyi, Zimbabwe.
(3)Institute of Vertebrate Biology, Czech Academy of Sciences, Brno, Czech 
Republic.
(4)CECAD, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

Gut bacteria occupy the interface between the organism and the external 
environment, contributing to homeostasis and disease. Yet, the causal role of 
the gut microbiota during host aging is largely unexplored. Here, using the 
African turquoise killifish (Nothobranchius furzeri), a naturally short-lived 
vertebrate, we show that the gut microbiota plays a key role in modulating 
vertebrate life span. Recolonizing the gut of middle-age individuals with 
bacteria from young donors resulted in life span extension and delayed 
behavioral decline. This intervention prevented the decrease in microbial 
diversity associated with host aging and maintained a young-like gut bacterial 
community, characterized by overrepresentation of the key genera 
Exiguobacterium, Planococcus, Propionigenium and Psychrobacter. Our findings 
demonstrate that the natural microbial gut community of young individuals can 
causally induce long-lasting beneficial systemic effects that lead to life span 
extension in a vertebrate model.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.27014
PMCID: PMC5566455
PMID: 28826469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that no competing interests 
exist.


928. Ann Emerg Med. 2018 Jan;71(1):64-73. doi: 10.1016/j.annemergmed.2017.07.006.
 Epub 2017 Aug 18.

Cost-effectiveness of Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Cervical Spine Clearance of 
Neurologically Intact Patients With Blunt Trauma.

Wu X(1), Malhotra A(2), Geng B(1), Liu R(3), Abbed K(4), Forman HP(5), Sanelli 
P(6).

Author information:
(1)Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT.
(2)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, Yale School of Medicine, New 
Haven, CT. Electronic address: ajay.malhotra@yale.edu.
(3)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, Yale School of Medicine, New 
Haven, CT.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT.
(5)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, Yale School of Medicine, New 
Haven, CT; Departments of Economics, Management, and Public Health, Yale School 
of Medicine, New Haven, CT.
(6)Department of Radiology, Northwell Health, Long Island, NY.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: Use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for cervical clearance 
after a negative cervical computed tomography (CT) scan result in alert patients 
with blunt trauma who are neurologically intact is not infrequent, despite poor 
evidence in regard to its utility. The objective of this study is to evaluate 
the utility and cost-effectiveness of using MRI versus no follow-up in this 
patient population.
METHODS: A modeling-based decision analysis was performed during the lifetime of 
a 40-year-old individual from a societal perspective. The 2 strategies compared 
were no follow-up and MRI. A Markov model with a 3% discount rate was used with 
parameters from the literature. Base cases and probabilistic and sensitivity 
analyses were performed to assess the cost-effectiveness of the strategies.
RESULTS: The cost of MRI follow-up was $11,477, with a health benefit of 24.03 
quality-adjusted life-years; the cost of no follow-up was $6,432, with a health 
benefit of 24.08 quality-adjusted life-years. No follow-up was the dominant 
strategy, with a lower cost and a higher utility. Probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis showed no follow-up to be the better strategy in all 10,000 iterations. 
No follow-up was the better strategy irrespective of the negative predictive 
value of initial CT result, and it remained the better strategy when the 
incidence of missed unstable injury resulting in permanent neurologic deficits 
was less than 64.2% and the incidence of patients immobilized with a hard collar 
who still received cord injury was greater than 19.7%. Multiple 3-way 
sensitivity analyses were performed.
CONCLUSION: MRI is not cost-effective for further evaluation of unstable injury 
in neurologically intact patients with blunt trauma after a negative cervical 
spine CT result.

Copyright © 2017 American College of Emergency Physicians. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annemergmed.2017.07.006
PMID: 28826754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Orthop Traumatol Surg Res. 2017 Nov;103(7):1127-1130. doi: 
10.1016/j.otsr.2017.07.004. Epub 2017 Aug 5.

Reverse shoulder arthroplasty in young patient with achondroplasia - Ten year 
follow up: Case report.

van den Broek M(1), Verborgt O(2), Declercq G(3).

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Department, AZ Monica Hospital, Deurner, Belgium. Electronic 
address: mathiasvdbroek@gmail.com.
(2)Orthopaedic Department, AZ Monica Hospital, Deurner, Belgium; University of 
Antwerp, Wilrijk, Belgium.
(3)Orthopaedic Department, AZ Monica Hospital, Deurner, Belgium.

Skeletal dysplasia in achondroplasia can affect all body joints - including the 
glenohumeral joint - and is prone to develop to degenerative osteoarthritis 
(OA). This may cause pain and mobility problems at young age. Surgical treatment 
is challenging due to the dysplastic anatomy of the shoulder joint - with a 
dysplastic deformed short humerus, a small, hypoplastic medialized glenoid and 
lateralized acromion - and the long life expectancy of these patients. The 
indications for reverse shoulder arthroplasty (RSA) evolved during years with 
rotator cuff tears and rotator cuff arthropathy in combination with or without 
glenohumeral OA as the main indicator, with good short to mid-term results. Long 
term results of RSA are rarely found in literature, especially in young 
patients. The use of a RSA in glenohumeral OA with an intact rotator cuff has 
rarely been reported. In this case report we present the ten-year clinical and 
radiographic results of a RSA for the treatment of degenerative OA with 
glenohumeral dysplasia in a young patient with achondroplasia.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otsr.2017.07.004
PMID: 28827054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. BMJ Open. 2017 Aug 21;7(8):e014880. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-014880.

Multiple treatment comparison of seven new drugs for patients with advanced 
malignant melanoma: a systematic review and health economic decision model in a 
Norwegian setting.

Pike E(1), Hamidi V(1), Saeterdal I(1), Odgaard-Jensen J(1), Klemp M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the relative effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of seven 
new drugs (cobimetinib, dabrafenib, ipilimumab, nivolumab, pembrolizumab, 
trametinib and vemurafenib) used for treatment of patients with advanced 
malignant melanoma in the Norwegian setting.
DESIGN: A multiple technology assessment.
PATIENTS: Patients with advanced malignant melanoma aged 18 or older.
DATA SOURCES: A systematic search for randomised controlled trials in relevant 
bibliographic databases.
METHODS: We performed network meta-analyses using both direct and indirect 
evidence with dacarbazine as a common comparator. We ranked the different 
treatments in terms of their likelihood of leading to the best results for each 
endpoint. The cost-utility analysis was based on a probabilistic discrete-time 
Markov cohort model. The model calculated the costs and quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) with different treatment strategies from a healthcare perspective. 
Sensitivity analysis was performed by means of Monte Carlo simulation.
RESULTS: Monotherapies with a programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) 
immune-checkpoint-inhibitor had a higher probability of good performance for 
overall survival than monotherapies with ipilimumab or BRAF/MEK inhibitors. The 
combination treatments had all similar levels of effectiveness to the PD-1 
immune-checkpoint-inhibitors.PD-1 immune-checkpoint-inhibitors are more 
effective and more costly compared with ipilimumab in monotherapy. Nivolumab in 
combination with ipilimumab had higher costs and the same level of effectiveness 
as the PD-1 immune-checkpoint-inhibitors in monotherapy.BRAF/MEK inhibitor 
combinations (dabrafenib and trametinib or vemurafenib and cobimetinib) had both 
similar effectiveness and cost-effectiveness; however, the combination therapies 
are more likely to give higher quality adjusted life year gains than BRAF or MEK 
inhibitor monotherapies, but to a higher cost.
CONCLUSIONS: None of the drugs investigated can be considered cost-effective at 
what has normally been considered a reasonable willingness-to-pay (WTP) in 
Norway. Price reductions (from the official list prices) in the region of 
63%-84% would be necessary for these drugs to be cost-effective at a WTP of €55 
850 per QALY.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2017. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-014880
PMCID: PMC5724191
PMID: 28827234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


931. BMJ Open. 2017 Aug 21;7(8):e014953. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-014953.

Assessing the potential return on investment of the proposed UK NHS diabetes 
prevention programme in different population subgroups: an economic evaluation.

Thomas C(1), Sadler S(1), Breeze P(1), Squires H(1), Gillett M(1), Brennan A(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
UK.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate potential return on investment of the National Health 
Service Diabetes Prevention Programme (NHS DPP) in England and estimate which 
population subgroups are likely to benefit most in terms of cost-effectiveness, 
cost-savings and health benefits.
DESIGN: Economic analysis using the School for Public Health Research Diabetes 
Prevention Model.
SETTING: England 2015-2016.
POPULATION: Adults aged ≥16 with high risk of type 2 diabetes (HbA1c 6%-6.4%). 
Population subgroups defined by age, sex, ethnicity, socioeconomic deprivation, 
baseline body mass index, baseline HbA1c and working status.
INTERVENTIONS: The proposed NHS DPP: an intensive lifestyle intervention 
focusing on dietary advice, physical activity and weight loss. Comparator: no 
diabetes prevention intervention.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental costs, savings and return on investment, 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), diabetes cases, cardiovascular cases and 
net monetary benefit from an NHS perspective.
RESULTS: Intervention costs will be recouped through NHS savings within 12 
years, with net NHS saving of £1.28 over 20 years for each £1 invested. Per 100 
000 DPP interventions given, 3552 QALYs are gained. The DPP is most 
cost-effective and cost-saving in obese individuals, those with baseline HbA1c 
6.2%-6.4% and those aged 40-74. QALY gains are lower in minority ethnic and low 
socioeconomic status subgroups. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis suggests that 
there is 97% probability that the DPP will be cost-effective within 20 years. 
NHS savings are highly sensitive to intervention cost, effectiveness and 
duration of effect.
CONCLUSIONS: The DPP is likely to be cost-effective and cost-saving under 
current assumptions. Prioritising obese individuals could create the most value 
for money and obtain the greatest health benefits per individual targeted. Low 
socioeconomic status or ethnic minority groups may gain fewer QALYs per 
intervention, so targeting strategies should ensure the DPP does not contribute 
to widening health inequalities. Further evidence is needed around the 
differential responsiveness of population subgroups to the DPP.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2017. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-014953
PMCID: PMC5724090
PMID: 28827235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors have no 
financial relationships with any organisations that might have an interest in 
the submitted work in the previous three years other than Public Health England 
and NHS England and no other relationships or activities that could appear to 
have influenced the submitted work.


932. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2017 Sep 5;114(36):E7432-E7440. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1708505114. Epub 2017 Aug 21.

Prospect theory and the decision to move or stay.

Clark WAV(1), Lisowski W(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 90095; 
wclark@geog.ucla.edu.
(2)Independent Scholar, Easton, PA 18040.

Migration has always involved stress and risk. More risk-averse households are 
less likely to move, while less risk-averse households will seek out 
opportunities and migrate. We investigate how the theoretical contributions of 
prospect theory, and specifically the endowment effect, can provide new 
understanding about decisions whether to migrate or not. We test the hypothesis 
that risk aversion extends the length of stay in the dwelling and, by extension, 
in the local labor and housing markets. How long people remain in place is a 
function, we hypothesize, of their independently self-assessed propensity to 
take risks, after controlling for a range of demographic and socioeconomic 
characteristics. We use the theoretical insights of prospect theory and the 
endowment effect (the notion of the "use value" differing from the "exchange 
value") to explain the likelihood of staying after controlling for life-course 
events. The results confirm the explanatory power of self-assessed risk in the 
decision to migrate or stay and, equally important, confirm the role of the 
endowment effect.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1708505114
PMCID: PMC5594691
PMID: 28827341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


933. Aging Male. 2018 Mar;21(1):17-23. doi: 10.1080/13685538.2017.1365122. Epub
2017  Aug 22.

Radical prostatectomy for clinically localized prostate cancer in patients aged 
75 years or older: comparison with primary androgen deprivation therapy.

Ryu JH(1), Kim SJ(1), Kim YB(1), Jung TY(1), Ko WJ(2), Kim SI(3), Kim DY(4), Oh 
TH(5), Moon KT(6), Cho HJ(6), Cho JM(6), Yoo TK(6).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Urology , Veterans Health Service Medical Center , Seoul , 
Republic of Korea.
(2)b Department of Urology, National Health Insurance Corporation Ilsan Hospital 
, Goyang , Republic of Korea.
(3)c Department of Urology, Ajou University School of Medicine , Suwon , 
Republic of Korea.
(4)d Department of Urology, Catholic University of Daegu School of Medicine , 
Daegu , Republic of Korea.
(5)e Department of Urology, Samsung Changwon Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine , Changwon , Republic of Korea.
(6)f Department of Urology, Eulji General Hospital, Eulji University School of 
Medicine , Seoul , Republic of Korea.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether radical prostatetomy (RP) is suitable for 
prostate cancer patients with age ≥75 years in comparison to primary androgen 
deprivation therapy (PADT).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A cohort study was conducted in clinically localized 
prostate cancer patients with ≥75 years of age who underwent RP or PADT at six 
institutions from 2005 to 2013. Patients who had less than 12 months of 
follow-up, or received neoadjuvant or adjuvant therapy were excluded. We 
compared clinical characteristics, cancer-specific and overall survivals, and 
post-treatment complication rates between two groups.
RESULTS: We included 92 and 99 patients in the RP and PADT groups, respectively. 
In survival analyses, there were no significant differences in cancer-specific 
and overall survivals (p = .302 and .995, respectively). The incidence of 
serious adverse events (cardio- or cerebrovascular event, or bone fracture) was 
higher in the PADT group (p = .001). Multivariable analysis showed that PADT had 
a worse effect on the serious adverse events (OR 10.12, p = .038).
CONCLUSIONS: In selected elderly patients, RP was safe and effective for 
treatment of localized prostate cancer, as compared to PADT. Surgical treatment 
options should be considered in elderly patients with respect to life 
expectancy, rather than chronological age.

DOI: 10.1080/13685538.2017.1365122
PMID: 28828908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2017 Oct 3;13(10):2207-2212. doi: 
10.1080/21645515.2017.1356526.

Cost effectiveness of a practice-based intervention to improve vaccination rates 
in adults less than 65-years-old.

Smith KJ(1), Nowalk MP(2), Lin CJ(2), Zimmerman RK(2).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Medicine , University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine , 
Pittsburgh , PA , USA.
(2)b Department of Family Medicine , University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine 
, Pittsburgh , PA , USA.

The cost-effectiveness of the 4 Pillars™ Practice Transformation Program to 
improve vaccination rates in adults <65-years-old is unknown. Two vaccines, 
influenza and Tdap (tetanus, diphtheria, acellular pertussis), were targeted for 
this age group. Cost-effectiveness of the intervention compared with control, 
with a primary outcome of cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained, was 
estimated from societal and third party payer perspectives over a 10-year time 
horizon using a decision analysis model. Vaccination rates and intervention 
costs were derived from an intervention trial, and vaccine effectiveness, 
illness rates, and costs with/without vaccination were obtained from US 
databases and literature data. Future costs and effectiveness were discounted at 
3%/year. The intervention cost was $1.78 per eligible patient/year. From the 
societal perspective, per patient total vaccination and illness costs with the 
intervention were $27.43 higher than control while gaining 0.00087 QALYs, 
costing $31,700/QALY gained. The intervention, extrapolated to the US 
population, could prevent 4.2 million cases, 87,489 hospitalizations, and 5,680 
deaths due to influenza over 10 y in adults <65-years-old. In a probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis, the intervention was favored in 68.2% of model runs at a 
$50,000/QALY level and in 94.3% at $100,000/QALY. In a separate scenario 
analysis, the intervention became cost saving if influenza economic burden was 
>$2,099 per case (societal base case $846). Thus, the 4 Pillars Practice 
Transformation Program is an economically reasonable intervention to improve 
vaccination rates in adults <65-years-old, and could have a substantial public 
health impact.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2017.1356526
PMCID: PMC5647965
PMID: 28829719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. JAMA. 2017 Aug 22;318(8):748-750. doi: 10.1001/jama.2017.9924.

Updated Cost-effectiveness Analysis of PCSK9 Inhibitors Based on the Results of 
the FOURIER Trial.

Kazi DS(1), Penko J(2), Coxson PG(2), Moran AE(3), Ollendorf DA(4), Tice JA(5), 
Bibbins-Domingo K(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital, San 
Francisco, California.
(2)Center for Vulnerable Populations, Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital, 
San Francisco, California.
(3)Division of General Internal Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center, 
New York, New York.
(4)Institute for Clinical and Economic Review, Boston, Massachusetts.
(5)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2017 Aug 22;318(8):711-712.

This study uses the results of the FOURIER trial to assess the current 
cost-effectiveness of PCSK9 inhibitors over the lifetime analytic horizon for 
patients with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease in the United States.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2017.9924
PMCID: PMC5817484
PMID: 28829863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: All authors 
have completed and submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure of Potential 
Conflicts of Interest. Dr Ollendorf reports being an employee of the Institute 
for Clinical and Economic Review, which is funded by grants from the Laura and 
John Arnold Foundation, Blue Shield of California Foundation, and the California 
Healthcare Foundation. The organization’s annual summit is supported by dues 
from Aetna, America’s Health Insurance Plans, Anthem, Blue Shield of California, 
CVS Caremark, Express Scripts, Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, Omeda Rx, United 
Healthcare, Kaiser Permanente, Premera Blue Cross, AstraZeneca, Genentech, 
GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, National Pharmaceutical Council, 
Takeda, Pfizer, Novartis, Eli Lilly, and Humana. Dr Tice reports receiving grant 
funding from the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review. No other 
disclosures are reported.


936. J Med Econ. 2018 Jan;21(1):27-37. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2017.1371033. Epub
2017  Sep 1.

Cost-effectiveness of golimumab for the treatment of patients with 
moderate-to-severe ulcerative colitis in Quebec using a patient level state 
transition microsimulation.

Stern S(1), Ward AJ(2), Saint-Laurent Thibault C(3), Camacho F(4), Rahme E(5), 
Naessens D(6), Aumais G(7)(8), Bernard EJ(8)(9), Bourdages R(10)(11), Cohen 
A(12)(13), Pare P(11)(14), Dyrda P(15).

Author information:
(1)a Evidera , Bethesda , MD , USA.
(2)b Evidera , Waltham , MA , USA.
(3)c Evidera , Montreal , QC , Canada.
(4)d Damos , North York , ON , Canada.
(5)e McGill University Health Centre , Montreal , QC , Canada.
(6)f Janssen Pharmaceutica , NV , Beerse , Belgium.
(7)g CIUSS est de Montreal at Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hôpital , Montreal , QC , 
Canada.
(8)h Université de Montréal , QC , Canada.
(9)i IBD Clinic, Hôtel-Dieu de Montreal CHUM , Montreal , QC , Canada.
(10)j CISSS Chaudière-Apalaches at Hôtel-Dieu de Lévis , Lévis , QC , Canada.
(11)k Université Laval , Québec City , QC , Canada.
(12)l Division of Gastroenterology , Jewish General Hospital , Montreal , QC , 
Canada.
(13)m McGill University , Montreal , QC , Canada.
(14)n CHU de Québec, Hôpital du Saint-Sacrement , Québec City , QC , Canada.
(15)o Janssen Inc. , Toronto , ON , Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To conduct cost-effectiveness analyses comparing the addition of 
golimumab to the standard of care (SoC) for treatment of patients with 
moderate-to-severe ulcerative colitis (UC) who are refractory to conventional 
therapies in Quebec (Canada).
METHODS: An individual patient state transition microsimulation model was 
developed to project health outcomes and costs over 10 years, using a payer 
perspective. The incremental benefit estimates for golimumab were driven by 
induction response and risk of a flare. Flare risks post-induction were derived 
for golimumab from the PURSUIT maintenance trial and extension study, while 
those for SoC were derived from the placebo arms of the Active Ulcerative 
Colitis Trials (ACT) 1 and 2. Other inputs were derived from multiple sources, 
including retrospective claims analyses and literature. Costs are reported in 
2014 Canadian dollars. A 5% annual discount rate was applied to costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: Compared with SoC, golimumab was projected to increase the time spent 
in mild disease or remission states, decrease flare rates, and increase QALYs. 
These gains were achieved with higher direct medical costs. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio for golimumab vs SoC was $63,487 per QALY.
LIMITATIONS: The long-term flare projections for SoC were based on the data 
available from the ACT 1 and 2 placebo arms, as data were not available from the 
PURSUIT maintenance or extension trial. Additionally, the study was limited to 
only SoC and golimumab, due to the availability of individual patient data to 
