
630. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2017 Oct 10;38(10):1325-1329. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2017.10.006.

[Disease burden caused by suicide in the Chinese population, in 1990 and 2013].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Gao X(1), Wang LH(2), Jin Y(1), Ye PP(1), Yang L(3), Er YL(1), Deng X(1), Wang 
Y(1), Duan LL(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Injury Prevention and Control, National Center for Chronic and 
Non-communicable Disease Control and Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, China.
(2)National Center for Chronic and Non-communicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China.
(3)Jinan Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Jinan 250021, China.

Objective: To provide basic suicide prevention strategy through analyzing the 
disease burden of suicide in the Chinese population, in 1990 and 2013. Methods: 
Indicators including mortality rate, years of life lost due to premature 
mortality (YLL), years lived with disability (YLD), and disability-adjusted of 
life years (DALY) on suicide, were from the results of Global Burden of Disease 
2013 and used to describe the burden of disease caused by suicide in Chinese 
population. Data described the disease burden of suicide in China by comparing 
the corresponding parameters in 1990 and 2013. Results: In 2013, the standard 
mortality on suicide was 9.08 per 100 000, and 73.39 per 100 000 in the 80 and 
above year-old, with the highest rates on DALY and YLL seen in the 
75-79-year-old. Each parameter related to suicide burden in males appeared 
higher than that in females. Compare to data in the 1990s, these parameters 
declined in 2013, especially seen in females. The rate of YLLs/YLDs on suicide 
was 90.03 in 2013, 89.83 in males and 89.00 in females. Conclusion: The disease 
burden of suicide decreased sharply between 1990 and 2013 but was still a 
serious issue in the elderly that called for more attention.

Publisher: 目的： 掌握自杀疾病负担的现状及变化趋势，为防控策略的制定提供依据。 方法： 
利用2013年全球疾病负担中国研究结果，采用死亡率、过早死亡损失寿命年（YLL）、伤残损失寿命年（YLD）和伤残调整寿命年（DALY）等指标，对中国人群自杀疾病负担情况进行描述，并通过与1990年相应指标进行对比，描述中国自杀疾病负担的变化情况。 
结果： 
2013年中国标化自杀死亡率为9.08/10万，≥80岁组自杀死亡率为73.39/10万；自杀DALYs率和YLLs率在75~79岁组最高，自杀疾病负担各项指标男性高于女性。与1990年相比，2013年我国自杀疾病负担各项指标均下降，女性下降幅度大于男性，≥70岁组下降幅度最小。2013年自杀YLLs/YLDs为90.03，男性自杀YLL/YLD为89.83，女性YLL/YLD为89.00。 
结论： 与1990年相比，2013年我国自杀疾病负担大幅度下降，但老年人群自杀疾病负担严重，应引起重视。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2017.10.006
PMID: 29060973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2017 Oct 10;38(10):1330-1334. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2017.10.007.

[Disease burden on falls among elderly aged 70 and over in the Chinese 
population, in 1990 and 2013].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Er YL(1), Jin Y(1), Ye PP(1), Ji CR(1), Wang Y(1), Deng X(1), Gao X(1), Duan 
LL(1), Wang LH(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Injury Prevention and Control, National Center for Chronic and 
Non-communicable Disease Control and Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, China.
(2)National Center for Chronic and Non-communicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China.

Objective: To analyze the disease burden of falls in Chinese population aged 70 
and over, in 1990 and 2013 and to provide evidence for the development of 
prevention strategies on falls in the elderly. Methods: Indicators including 
mortality rate, years of life lost due to premature mortality (YLL), years lived 
with disability (YLD) and disability-adjusted of life years (DALY) on falls, 
were gathered from the results of Global Burden of Disease 2013 and used to 
describe the disease burden of falls in China by calculating the changing rates 
on corresponding parameters in 1990 and 2013. Results: In 2013, the number of 
deaths, YLLs, YLDs, DALYs caused by falls among Chinese population aged 70 and 
over were 48 800, 0.44 million person years, 0.30 millions person years, and 
0.74 million person years, respectively. The standardized mortality rate, rates 
on YLLs, YLDs and DALYs of falls were 561.71 per 100 000, 55.87 per 100 000, 
373.98 per 100 000 and 929.85 per 100 000, respectively. The burden of falls 
increased along with the increase of age. Compared with 1990, the number of 
deaths, YLLs, YLDs and DALYs caused by falls increased by 308.80%, 161.01%, 
54.67% and 104.47%, respectively, in 2013, more seen in males than in females. 
The standardized mortality rate, YLLs and DALYs caused by falls increased by 
63.67%, 38.54% and 73.08%, respectively, during 1990 and 2013. However, the 
standardized YLDs rate fell by 17.90% during the same period. Conclusion: Falls 
caused heavy disease burden which increased in 1990 and 2013 among the Chinese 
population aged 70 and over.

Publisher: 目的： 分析1990年与2013年中国≥70岁人群跌倒的疾病负担，为制定老年人跌倒预防控制策略措施提供依据。 方法： 
利用2013年全球疾病负担研究结果，采用因跌倒死亡数/标化死亡率、过早死亡损失寿命年（YLL）/标化YLL率、伤残损失寿命年（YLD）/标化YLD率、伤残调整寿命年（DALY）/标化DALY率等指标，对中国≥70岁老年人跌倒疾病负担进行描述，通过比较1990年与2013年相应指标的变化，描述疾病负担变化情况。 
结果： 
2013年中国≥70岁人群因跌倒造成的死亡人数、YLL、YLD和DALY分别为4.88万人年、43.96万人年、29.58万人年和73.54万人年；标化死亡率、YLL率、YLD率和DALY率分别为561.71/10万、55.87/10万、373.98/10万和929.85/10万。随着年龄增加，因跌倒造成的疾病负担加重。与1990年相比，2013年跌倒造成的死亡数量、YLL、YLD和DALY分别增加308.80%、161.01%、54.67%和104.47%；男性增幅高于女性。与1990年相比，2013年≥70岁人群因跌倒标化死亡率、标化YLL率和DALY率分上升为63.67%、38.54%和73.08%；而标化YLD率下降17.90%。 
结论： 跌倒给中国≥70岁人群造成沉重的疾病负担，与1990年相比，2013年跌倒对中国≥70岁人群造成疾病负担有所增加。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2017.10.007
PMID: 29060974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2017 Oct 10;38(10):1335-1341. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2017.10.008.

[Disease burden of injuries in children aged 0-14-year-old in 1990 and 2013, in 
China].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Ye PP(1), Jin Y(1), Er YL(1), Deng X(1), Wang Y(1), Gao X(1), Duan LL(1), Wang 
LH(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Injury Prevention and Control, National Center for Chronic and 
Non-communicable Disease Control and Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, China.
(2)National Center for Chronic and Non-communicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China.

Objective: To analyze the disease burden of injuries in Chinese children aged 
between 0-14-year-old, in 1990 and 2013. Methods: Data derived from the Global 
Burden of Disease 2013 was used to analyze the disease burden of injuries among 
children aged between 0-14-year-old in each province of China, using relevant 
indicators including mortality and the rate on disability-adjusted life years 
(DALY). Results: In 2013, the number of deaths, rates on mortality and DALY 
caused by injuries in children aged between 0-14-year-old were 73 766, 29.46 per 
100 000 and 2 449.36 per 100 000, respectively. Each indicator of injury burden 
appeared higher in boys than that in girls. With the increase of age, burden 
caused by injuries in each age group showed a decreasing trend. Provinces and 
autonomous regions as Xinjiang, Tibet, Gansu, Qinghai and Ningxia ranked the top 
5 regions on both mortality rate and DALY rate among children aged between 
0-14-year-old. The top 3 injury-related mortality rates and rate on DALY were 
drowning, road traffic injury and exposure to mechanic forces, among children. 
Compared to the disease burden of injuries in the 1990s, all indicators showed 
decreasing trends in children aged between 0-14-year-old, with girls more than 
boys, and variations in different age groups. In all areas of China, 
improvements were seen on intervention programs related to the injury-caused 
burden among children aged between 0-14-year-old, except for Ningxia, Yunnan and 
Chongqing. Conclusions: During the last two decades, there had been significant 
improvements in reducing the injury-caused burden among the Chinese children 
aged between 0-14-year-old. However, injury is still the most important risk on 
health of children under 4-year-old, with boys in particular. Drowning and road 
traffic injury were the two leading causes of death in children aged between 1 
and 14-year-old.

Publisher: 目的： 分析1990年与2013年中国0~14岁儿童伤害疾病负担及变化情况。 方法： 
利用2013年全球疾病负担中国及中国分省数据，采用死亡率和伤残调整寿命年（DALY）率等指标，分析1990年与2013年中国0~14岁儿童伤害疾病负担及变化情况。 
结果： 2013年中国0~14岁儿童伤害死亡数为73 766人、死亡率为29.46/10万、DALY率为2 
449.36/10万。男童伤害疾病负担各项指标均高于女童。各年龄组随着年龄增加伤害疾病负担逐渐降低。0~14岁儿童伤害死亡率和DALY率前5位地区均依次为新疆维吾尔自治区、西藏自治区、甘肃省、青海省和宁夏回族自治区。0~14岁儿童伤害死亡率和DALY率前三位伤害类型均为溺水、道路交通伤害和暴露于机械性力量。与1990年相比，0~14岁儿童伤害疾病负担各项指标均有明显下降，男童下降程度略低于女童，各年龄组也有不同程度下降，除宁夏回族自治区、云南省和重庆市以外，其余各地区0~14岁儿童伤害疾病负担均有不同程度的改善。 
结论： 
近年来中国0~14岁儿童伤害疾病负担有较明显改善，但伤害仍是中国0~14岁儿童面临的重要健康威胁之一。4岁以下男童的伤害疾病负担仍较严重，溺水和道路交通伤害是1~14岁儿童死亡的主要原因，部分地区需要进一步加强0~14岁儿童伤害防控工作。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2017.10.008
PMID: 29060975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Trials. 2017 Oct 23;18(1):493. doi: 10.1186/s13063-017-2226-7.

The Community Navigator Study: a feasibility randomised controlled trial of an 
intervention to increase community connections and reduce loneliness for people 
with complex anxiety or depression.

Lloyd-Evans B(1), Bone JK(2), Pinfold V(3), Lewis G(2)(4), Billings J(2), 
Frerichs J(3), Fullarton K(2), Jones R(2), Johnson S(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, W1T 7NF, UK. 
b.lloyd-evans@ucl.ac.uk.
(2)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, W1T 7NF, UK.
(3)The McPin Foundation, London, SE1 0EH, UK.
(4)Camden and Islington NHS Foundation Trust, London, NW1 0PE, UK.

BACKGROUND: Loneliness is associated with poor health outcomes at all ages, 
including shorter life expectancy and greater risk of developing depression. 
People with mental health problems are particularly vulnerable to loneliness 
and, for those with anxiety or depression, loneliness is associated with poorer 
outcomes. Interventions which support people to utilise existing networks and 
access new social contact are advocated in policy but there is little evidence 
regarding their effectiveness. People with mental health problems have potential 
to benefit from interventions to reduce loneliness, but evidence is needed 
regarding their feasibility, acceptability and outcomes. An intervention to 
reduce loneliness for people with anxiety or depression treated in secondary 
mental health services was developed for this study, which will test the 
feasibility and acceptability of delivering and evaluating it through a 
randomised controlled trial.
METHODS: In this feasibility trial, 40 participants with anxiety or depression 
will be recruited through two secondary mental health services in London and 
randomised to an intervention (n = 30) or control group (n = 10). The control 
group will receive standard care and written information about local community 
resources. The coproduced intervention, developed in this study, includes up to 
ten sessions with a 'Community Navigator' over a 6-month period. Community 
Navigators will work with people individually to increase involvement in social 
activities, with the aim of reducing feelings of loneliness. Data will be 
collected at baseline and at 6-month follow-up - the end of the intervention 
period. The acceptability of the intervention and feasibility of participant 
recruitment and retention will be assessed. Potential primary and secondary 
outcomes for a future definitive trial will be completed to assess response and 
completeness, including measures of loneliness, depression and anxiety. 
Qualitative interviews with participants, staff and other stakeholders will 
explore experiences of Community Navigator support, the mechanisms by which it 
may have its effects and suggestions for improving the programme.
DISCUSSION: Our trial will provide preliminary evidence of the feasibility and 
acceptability of Community Navigator support and of trial procedures for testing 
this. The results will inform a future definitive randomised controlled trial of 
this intervention.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN10771821 . Registered on 3 April 2017.

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-017-2226-7
PMCID: PMC5654042
PMID: 29061185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: This feasibility trial has received ethical 
approval from the East of England – Cambridge Central Research Ethics Committee 
(Ref: 16/EE/0255). It was prospectively registered on the ISRCTN registry (Ref: 
ISRCTN10771821 assigned on 07/04/2017). The protocol reported in this paper 
corresponds to the current, ethically approved, version of the trial protocol 
(V2, 09/02/2017). CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: All participants consent to publish 
results, both on a group level and individually, given adequate anonymisation. 
All data are analysed with respect for confidentiality. This information is 
included in the Participant Information Sheets and consent is given accordingly. 
COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing interests. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


634. Kidney Int. 2018 Mar;93(3):716-726. doi: 10.1016/j.kint.2017.08.016. Epub
2017  Oct 20.

Screening for intracranial aneurysms in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney 
disease is cost-effective.

Flahault A(1), Trystram D(2), Nataf F(3), Fouchard M(4), Knebelmann B(4), 
Grünfeld JP(4), Joly D(5).

Author information:
(1)Université Paris-Descartes, Faculté de Médecine, AP-HP, Service de 
Néphrologie, Hôpital Necker-Enfants Malades, Paris, France; College de France, 
Laboratory of Central Neuropeptides in the Regulation of Body Fluid Homeostasis 
and Cardiovascular Functions, CIRB, INSERM U1050, Paris, France.
(2)Université Paris-Descartes, INSERM UMR 894, Service de Neuroradiologie, 
Centre Hospitalier Sainte-Anne, Paris, France.
(3)Université Paris-Descartes, INSERM UMR 894, Service de Neurochirurgie, Centre 
Hospitalier Sainte-Anne, Paris, France.
(4)Université Paris-Descartes, Faculté de Médecine, AP-HP, Service de 
Néphrologie, Hôpital Necker-Enfants Malades, Paris, France.
(5)Université Paris-Descartes, Faculté de Médecine, AP-HP, Service de 
Néphrologie, Hôpital Necker-Enfants Malades, Paris, France; Investigation 
Network Initiative, Cardiovascular and Renal Clinical Trialists, Paris, France. 
Electronic address: dominique.joly@aphp.fr.

Intracranial aneurysm rupture is a dramatic complication of autosomal dominant 
polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). It remains uncertain whether screening should 
be widespread or only target patients with risk factors (personal or familial 
history of intracranial aneurysm), with an at-risk profession, or those who 
request screening. We evaluated this in a single-center cohort of 495 
consecutive patients with ADPKD submitted to targeted intracranial aneurysm 
screening. Cerebral magnetic resonance angiography was proposed to 110 patients 
with a familial history of intracranial aneurysm (group 1), whereas it was not 
our intention to propose it to 385 patients without familial risk (group 2). 
Magnetic resonance angiography results, intracranial aneurysm prophylactic 
repair, rupture events, and cost-effectiveness of intracranial aneurysm 
screening strategies were retrospectively analyzed. During a median follow up of 
5.9 years, five non-fatal intracranial aneurysm ruptures occurred (incidence 
rate 2.0 (0.87-4.6)/1000 patients-year). In group 1, 90% of patients were 
screened and an intracranial aneurysm was detected in 14, treated preventively 
in five, and ruptured in one patient despite surveillance. In group 2, 21% of 
patients were screened and an intracranial aneurysm was detected in five, and 
treated preventively in one. Intracranial aneurysm rupture occurred in four 
patients in group 2. Systematic screening was deemed cost-effective and provides 
a gain of 0.68 quality-adjusted life years compared to targeted screening. Thus, 
the intracranial aneurysm rupture rate is high in ADPKD despite targeted 
screening, and involves mostly patients without familial risk factors. Hence, 
cost-utility analysis suggests that intracranial aneurysm screening could be 
proposed to all ADPKD patients.

Copyright © 2017 International Society of Nephrology. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.kint.2017.08.016
PMID: 29061331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. World Neurosurg. 2018 Jan;109:e691-e698. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2017.10.056.
Epub  2017 Oct 20.

Multilayer Dura Reconstruction After Thoracoscopic Microdiscectomy: Technique 
and Results.

Cornips EMJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, 
The Netherlands. Electronic address: e.cornips@mumc.nl.

BACKGROUND: Anterior transthoracic approaches, including thoracoscopic 
microdiscectomy (TMD), are the preferred techniques for central, broad-based, 
calcified thoracic disc herniations (TDHs). Dural defects due to manipulation or 
transdural extension may create a potentially life-threatening 
subarachnoid-pleural fistula. We evaluate a fast, sutureless technique for 
reconstructing the dura.
METHODS: We analyzed 476 anterior transthoracic approaches for TDHs (437 TMDs, 
31 mini-thoracotomies, 7 transaxillary approaches, and 1 sternotomy). Dural 
defects were closed using an onlay dura substitute, fibrin glue, an autologous 
fat graft, and another layer of fibrin glue topped by an absorbable gelatin 
sponge. A chest tube was used to provide a water seal, and the use of external 
lumbar drains (ELDs) was discontinued in recent years.
RESULTS: We encountered 35 dural defects (7.35%), including 27 in 279 procedures 
(9.67%) in the first 10 years and 8 in 197 (4.06%) in the past 6 years. Five 
defects were large, 23 were relatively small, and 5 had an intact arachnoid 
layer, likely preventing cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) egress. Two CSF leaks in the 
early series were overlooked intraoperatively; 1 patient died following 
widespread cortical venous thrombosis, whereas the other merely had a headache 
that disappeared within 1 week. Overall, an ELD was inserted in 3 of 5 large 
defects and in 17 of 23 small defects; however, in the past 6 years, an ELD was 
inserted in no large defects and in only 1 of 5 small defects. The technique was 
successful in all but 1 patient, who underwent reoperation using a larger fat 
graft.
CONCLUSIONS: Dural defects encountered during anterior transthoracic approaches 
to TDHs can be reconstructed endoscopically, while avoiding the use of an ELD in 
most cases.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2017.10.056
PMID: 29061456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Circulation. 2017 Nov 21;136(21):e393-e423. doi:
10.1161/CIR.0000000000000534.  Epub 2017 Oct 23.

Cardiovascular Health in African Americans: A Scientific Statement From the 
American Heart Association.

Carnethon MR, Pu J, Howard G, Albert MA, Anderson CAM, Bertoni AG, Mujahid MS, 
Palaniappan L, Taylor HA Jr, Willis M, Yancy CW; American Heart Association 
Council on Epidemiology and Prevention; Council on Cardiovascular Disease in the 
Young; Council on Cardiovascular and Stroke Nursing; Council on Clinical 
Cardiology; Council on Functional Genomics and Translational Biology; and Stroke 
Council.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Population-wide reductions in cardiovascular disease 
incidence and mortality have not been shared equally by African Americans. The 
burden of cardiovascular disease in the African American community remains high 
and is a primary cause of disparities in life expectancy between African 
Americans and whites. The objectives of the present scientific statement are to 
describe cardiovascular health in African Americans and to highlight unique 
considerations for disease prevention and management.
METHOD: The primary sources of information were identified with PubMed/Medline 
and online sources from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
RESULTS: The higher prevalence of traditional cardiovascular risk factors (eg, 
hypertension, diabetes mellitus, obesity, and atherosclerotic cardiovascular 
risk) underlies the relatively earlier age of onset of cardiovascular diseases 
among African Americans. Hypertension in particular is highly prevalent among 
African Americans and contributes directly to the notable disparities in stroke, 
heart failure, and peripheral artery disease among African Americans. Despite 
the availability of effective pharmacotherapies and indications for some 
tailored pharmacotherapies for African Americans (eg, heart failure 
medications), disease management is less effective among African Americans, 
yielding higher mortality. Explanations for these persistent disparities in 
cardiovascular disease are multifactorial and span from the individual level to 
the social environment.
CONCLUSIONS: The strategies needed to promote equity in the cardiovascular 
health of African Americans require input from a broad set of stakeholders, 
including clinicians and researchers from across multiple disciplines.

© 2017 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000000534
PMID: 29061565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. BMJ Open. 2017 Oct 23;7(9):e017654. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-017654.

Future trends in the prevalence of severe activity limitations among older 
adults in Europe: a cross-national population study using EU-SILC.

Scherbov S(1)(2)(3), Weber D(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Wittgenstein Centre (IIASA, VID/ÖAW, WU), International Institute for Applied 
Systems Analysis, Laxenburg, Austria.
(2)Russian Presidential Academy of National Economyand Public Administration 
(RANEPA), Moscow, Russian Federation.
(3)Vienna Institute of Demography, Austrian Academy of Science, Vienna, Austria.
(4)Health Economics and Policy Division, Vienna University of Economics and 
Business, Vienna, Austria.

OBJECTIVE: To project the proportion of population 65+ years with severe 
long-term activity limitations from 2017 to 2047.
DESIGN: Large population study.
SETTING: Population living in private households of the European Union (EU) and 
neighbouring countries.
PARTICIPANTS: Participants from the EU Statistics on Income and Living 
Conditions aged 55 years and older and living in one of 26 EU and neighbouring 
countries, who answered the health section of the questionnaire.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Prevalence of severe long-term activity limitations of 
particular subpopulations (ie, 55+, 65+, 75+ and 85+ years) by sex and country.
RESULTS: We find a huge variation in the prevalence of self-reported severe 
long-term limitations across Europe for both sexes. However, in 2017, about 20% 
of the female population aged 65 years and above and about 16% of their male 
counterparts are expected to report severe long-term activity limitations after 
accounting for differences in reporting. Accounting for cultural differences in 
reporting, we expect that European countries will have about 21% (decile 1: 
19.5%; decile 9: 22.9%) of female and about 16.8% (decile 1: 15.4%; decile 9: 
18.1%) of male 65+ years population with severe long-term activity limitations 
by 2047.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, despite the expected increase of life expectancy in 
European countries, our results suggest almost constant shares of older adults 
with severe long-term activity limitations within the next 30 years.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2017. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-017654
PMCID: PMC5722100
PMID: 29061570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


638. Genetics. 2017 Dec;207(4):1501-1518. doi: 10.1534/genetics.117.300137. Epub
2017  Oct 23.

Pyridoxine-Dependent Epilepsy in Zebrafish Caused by Aldh7a1 Deficiency.

Pena IA(1)(2)(3), Roussel Y(3), Daniel K(4), Mongeon K(4)(2), Johnstone D(4)(2), 
Weinschutz Mendes H(3), Bosma M(5), Saxena V(3), Lepage N(4), Chakraborty P(4), 
Dyment DA(4)(2), van Karnebeek CDM(5)(6), Verhoeven-Duif N(7), Bui TV(3), 
Boycott KM(1)(2), Ekker M(3), MacKenzie A(4)(2).

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Research Institute, Ottawa, Ontario 
K1H 8L1, Canada ipena2@uottawa.ca.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ontario 
K1H 8L1, Canada.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Ottawa, Ontario K1N 6N5, Canada.
(4)Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Research Institute, Ottawa, Ontario 
K1H 8L1, Canada.
(5)Departments of Pediatrics and Clinical Genetics, Academic Medical Centre, 
1105 AZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, Centre for Molecular Medicine and Therapeutics, 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver V5Z 4H4, British Columbia, Canada.
(7)Department of Genetics, Center for Molecular Medicine, University Medical 
Center (UMC), 3584 EA Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy (PDE) is a rare disease characterized by mutations 
in the lysine degradation gene ALDH7A1 leading to recurrent neonatal seizures, 
which are uniquely alleviated by high doses of pyridoxine or pyridoxal 
5'-phosphate (vitamin B6 vitamers). Despite treatment, neurodevelopmental 
disabilities are still observed in most PDE patients underlining the need for 
adjunct therapies. Over 60 years after the initial description of PDE, we report 
the first animal model for this disease: an aldh7a1-null zebrafish (Danio rerio) 
displaying deficient lysine metabolism and spontaneous and recurrent seizures in 
the larval stage (10 days postfertilization). Epileptiform electrographic 
activity was observed uniquely in mutants as a series of population bursts in 
tectal recordings. Remarkably, as is the case in human PDE, the seizures show an 
almost immediate sensitivity to pyridoxine and pyridoxal 5'-phosphate, with a 
resulting extension of the life span. Lysine supplementation aggravates the 
phenotype, inducing earlier seizure onset and death. By using mass spectrometry 
techniques, we further explored the metabolic effect of aldh7a1 knockout. 
Impaired lysine degradation with accumulation of PDE biomarkers, B6 deficiency, 
and low γ-aminobutyric acid levels were observed in the aldh7a1-/- larvae, which 
may play a significant role in the seizure phenotype and PDE pathogenesis. This 
novel model provides valuable insights into PDE pathophysiology; further 
research may offer new opportunities for drug discovery to control seizure 
activity and improve neurodevelopmental outcomes for PDE.

Copyright © 2017 by the Genetics Society of America.

DOI: 10.1534/genetics.117.300137
PMCID: PMC5714462
PMID: 29061647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Ann Cardiothorac Surg. 2017 Sep;6(5):524-531. doi: 10.21037/acs.2017.07.11.

Transcatheter aortic valve implantation in nonagenarians: selectively feasible 
or extravagantly futile?

Manolis AS(1), Manolis AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Third Department of Cardiology, Athens University School of Medicine, Athens, 
Greece.

A growing number of nonagenarians is recorded as life expectancy increases. 
Unfortunately, this extreme-aged group is plagued by increased prevalence of 
aortic stenosis amidst a higher occurrence of comorbidities that pose dilemmas 
to cardiologists and cardiac surgeons when having to choose a conservative or 
interventional treatment modality, and a surgical or transcatheter aortic valve 
implantation (TAVI) approach. TAVI is an expensive procedure, which also confers 
a higher mortality and morbidity risk in nonagenarians, compared to younger 
patients. Considering the physiologic rather the chronologic age alone, and 
adopting a shared-decision making approach (participatory medicine), it may be 
more realistic to determine a patient's candidacy for this non-surgical 
therapeutic modality. Thus, it comes down to the patient selection process by 
having the heart team review each nonagenarian case individually and getting the 
patient and the family involved, always aiming to prolong and improve patient's 
quality of life (QoL), but also taking into consideration patient preferences 
and values, sharing and respecting goals, realistic expectations, and 
end-of-life views and ideas. One should keep in mind that there is always the 
possibility that TAVI may be clinically futile for patients who have a multitude 
of comorbidities and extreme frailty, for whom a transition to palliative care 
might be prudent. Selecting nonagenarian patients with low comorbidity index and 
with no extreme frailty, adopting a minimalistic approach and paying attention 
to vascular access hemostasis may provide the elements that may lead to a 
successful, desirable and hopefully cost-effective outcome.

DOI: 10.21037/acs.2017.07.11
PMCID: PMC5639234
PMID: 29062749

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors have no 
conflicts of interest to declare.


640. Synth Syst Biotechnol. 2017 Apr 29;2(2):121-129. doi: 
10.1016/j.synbio.2017.04.003. eCollection 2017 Jun.

Rational synthetic combination genetic devices boosting high temperature ethanol 
fermentation.

Sun H(1), Jia H(1), Li J(1), Feng X(1), Liu Y(2), Zhou X(2), Li C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing 100081, 
China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Systems Bioengineering, Ministry of Education, Tianjin 
University, Tianjin, 300072, China.

The growth and production of yeast in the industrial fermentation are seriously 
restrained by heat stress and exacerbated by heat induced oxidative stress. In 
this study, a novel synthetic biology approach was developed to globally boost 
the viability and production ability of S. cerevisiae at high temperature 
through rationally designing and combing heat shock protein (HSP) and superoxide 
dismutase (SOD) genetic devices to ultimately synergistically alleviate both 
heat stress and oxidative stress. HSP and SOD from extremophiles were 
constructed to be different genetic devices and they were preliminary screened 
by heat resistant experiments and anti-oxidative experiments, respectively. Then 
in order to customize and further improve thermotolerance of S. cerevisiae, the 
HSP genetic device and SOD genetic device were rationally combined. The results 
show the simply assemble of the same function genetic devices to solve heat 
stress or oxidative stress could not enhance the thermotolerance considerably. 
Only S. cerevisiae with the combination genetic device 
(FBA1p-sod-MB4-FBA1p-shsp-HB8) solving both stress showed 250% better 
thermotolerance than the control and displayed further 55% enhanced cell density 
compared with the strains with single FBA1p-sod-MB4 or FBA1p-shsp-HB8 at 42 °C. 
Then the most excellent combination genetic device was introduced into lab 
S. cerevisiae and industrial S. cerevisiae for ethanol fermentation. The ethanol 
yields of the two strains were increased by 20.6% and 26.3% compared with the 
control under high temperature, respectively. These results indicate 
synergistically defensing both heat stress and oxidative stress is absolutely 
necessary to enhance the thermotolerance and production of S. cerevisiae.

DOI: 10.1016/j.synbio.2017.04.003
PMCID: PMC5636948
PMID: 29062969


641. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2017 
Dec;60(12):1422-1428. doi: 10.1007/s00103-017-2648-0.

[Regional life expectancy rankings : Methodological artefacts in population 
updates].

[Article in German]

Poppe F(1), Annuß R(2), Kuhn J(3).

Author information:
(1)Sachgebiet GE 4.2, Bayerisches Landesamt für Gesundheit und 
Lebensmittelsicherheit, Veterinärstraße 2, 85764, Oberschleißheim, Deutschland. 
franziska.poppe@lgl.bayern.de.
(2)FG Gesundheitsberichterstattung, Landeszentrum Gesundheit 
Nordrhein-Westfalen, Westerfeldstraße 35/37, Bielefeld, 33611, Deutschland.
(3)Sachgebiet GE 4.2, Bayerisches Landesamt für Gesundheit und 
Lebensmittelsicherheit, Veterinärstraße 2, 85764, Oberschleißheim, Deutschland.

For the calculation of life expectancy on a regional level, data from the 
mortality statistics and population numbers are needed. The latter are derived 
from population censuses, which have to be undertaken every 10 years according 
to the EU regulation No. 763/2008. In Germany, the last census took place in 
2011 (Census 2011). The current population numbers are calculated on the basis 
of the most recent population census (population update). Births, deaths, 
immigration and migration, in addition to other data, are taken into account in 
this calculation. However, with passing time since the last census, inaccuracies 
in population updates may increase, which can affect the value of life 
expectancy calculations.Based on the comparison of life expectancy rankings, the 
impact and extent of changing over from the 1987 to the more recent 2011 census 
for regional comparisons were examined in two parts of Germany, Bavaria and 
North Rhine-Westphalia. As expected, the results show that larger changes in the 
calculated life expectancy result from larger changes in population statistics. 
However, noteworthy changes in life expectancy rankings do not necessarily 
follow larger changes in the population numbers. Regional life expectancy 
rankings are potentially always influenced by inaccuracies in the underlying 
population statistics. This should be taken into account when interpreting such 
small-scale differences.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-017-2648-0
PMID: 29063155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Diabetes Ther. 2017 Dec;8(6):1331-1347. doi: 10.1007/s13300-017-0323-y. Epub
 2017 Oct 23.

Cost-Effectiveness of IDegLira Versus Insulin Intensification Regimens for the 
Treatment of Adults with Type 2 Diabetes in the Czech Republic.

Kvapil M(1), Prázný M(2), Holik P(3), Rychna K(4), Hunt B(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty Hospital Motol, Prague, Czech 
Republic.
(2)Third Internal Clinic, Clinic of Endocrinology and Metabolism, General 
University Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic.
(3)Novo Nordisk s.r.o, Prague, Czech Republic. pavh@novonordisk.com.
(4)Novo Nordisk s.r.o, Prague, Czech Republic.
(5)Ossian Health Economics and Communications, Basel, Switzerland.

INTRODUCTION: The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term 
cost-effectiveness of the insulin degludec/liraglutide combination (IDegLira) 
versus basal insulin intensification strategies for patients with type 2 
diabetes mellitus (T2DM) not optimally controlled on basal insulin in the Czech 
Republic.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness was evaluated using the QuintilesIMS Health CORE 
Diabetes model, an interactive internet-based model that simulates clinical 
outcomes and costs for cohorts of patients with diabetes. The analysis was 
conducted from the perspective of the Czech Republic public payer. Sensitivity 
analyses were conducted to explore the sensitivity of the model to plausible 
variations in key parameters.
RESULTS: The use of IDegLira was associated with an improvement in the 
quality-adjusted life expectancy of 0.31 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), at 
an additional cost of Czech Koruna (CZK) 107,829 over a patient's lifetime 
compared with basal-bolus therapy, generating an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) of CZK 345,052 per QALY gained. In a scenario analysis, IDegLira 
was associated with an ICER of CZK 693,763 per QALY gained compared to basal 
insulin + glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist (GLP-1 RA). The ICERs are 
below the generally accepted willingness-to-pay threshold (CZK 1,100,000/QALY 
gained at the time of this analysis).
CONCLUSIONS: Results from this evaluation suggest that IDegLira is a 
cost-effective treatment option compared with basal-bolus therapy and basal 
insulin + GLP-1 RA for patients with T2DM in the Czech Republic whose diabetes 
is not optimally controlled with basal insulin.
FUNDING: Novo Nordisk.

DOI: 10.1007/s13300-017-0323-y
PMCID: PMC5688988
PMID: 29063511


643. Mamm Genome. 2018 Apr;29(3-4):229-244. doi: 10.1007/s00335-017-9721-8. Epub
2017  Oct 24.

Identification and characterization of a novel chemically induced allele at the 
planar cell polarity gene Vangl2.

El-Hassan AR(1)(2), Leung V(3)(4), Kharfallah F(1)(5), Guyot MC(1), Allache 
R(1), Gros P(3)(4), Kibar Z(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)CHU Sainte-Justine Research Center, Montréal, QC, Canada.
(2)Department of Neurosciences, Université de Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada.
(3)Department of Human Genetics, McGill University, Montréal, QC, Canada.
(4)McGill University Research Centre on Complex Traits, Montréal, QC, Canada.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, McGill University, Montréal, QC, Canada.
(6)CHU Sainte-Justine Research Center, Montréal, QC, Canada. 
zoha.kibar@recherche-ste-justine.qc.ca.
(7)Department of Neurosciences, Université de Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada. 
zoha.kibar@recherche-ste-justine.qc.ca.
(8)Department of Neurosciences, CHU Sainte Justine Research Center, University 
of Montréal, 3175 Cote-Sainte-Catherine, Room 3.17.006, Montréal, QC, H3T 1C5, 
Canada. zoha.kibar@recherche-ste-justine.qc.ca.

Planar cell polarity (PCP) signaling controls a number of morphogenetic 
processes including convergent extension during gastrulation and neural tube 
formation. Defects in this pathway cause neural tube defects (NTD), the most 
common malformations of the central nervous system. The Looptail (Lp) mutant 
mouse was the first mammalian mutant implicating a PCP gene (Vangl2) in the 
pathogenesis of NTD. We report on a novel chemically induced mutant allele at 
Vangl2 called Curly Bob that causes a missense mutation p.Ile268Asn (I268N) in 
the Vangl2 protein. This mutant segregates in a semi-dominant fashion with 
heterozygote mice displaying a looped tail appearance, bobbing head, and a 
circling behavior. Homozygote mutant embryos suffer from a severe form of NTD 
called craniorachischisis, severe PCP defects in the inner hair cells of the 
cochlea and posterior cristae, and display a distinct defect in retinal axon 
guidance. This mutant genetically interacts with the Lp allele (Vangl2 S464N ) 
in neural tube development and inner ear hair cell polarity. The Vangl2I268N 
protein variant is expressed at very low levels in affected neural and retinal 
tissues of mutant homozygote embryos. Biochemical studies show that Vangl2I268N 
exhibits impaired targeting to the plasma membrane and accumulates in the 
endoplasmic reticulum. The Vangl2I268N variant no longer physically interacts 
with its PCP partner DVL3 and has a reduced protein half-life. This mutant 
provides an important model for dissecting the role of Vangl2 in the development 
of the neural tube, establishment of polarity of sensory cells of the auditory 
and vestibular systems, and retinal axon guidance.

DOI: 10.1007/s00335-017-9721-8
PMID: 29063958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Biomol NMR Assign. 2018 Apr;12(1):107-111. doi: 10.1007/s12104-017-9789-9.
Epub  2017 Oct 24.

Backbone (1)H, (13)C and (15)N resonance assignments of the OB domain of the 
single stranded DNA-binding protein hSSB2 (NABP1/OBFC2A) and chemical shift 
mapping of the DNA-binding interface.

Kariawasam R(1), Knight M(1), Gamsjaeger R(2)(3), Cubeddu L(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Science and Health, Western Sydney University, Penrith, NSW, 2751, 
Australia.
(2)School of Science and Health, Western Sydney University, Penrith, NSW, 2751, 
Australia. r.gamsjaeger@westernsydney.edu.au.
(3)School of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
2006, Australia. r.gamsjaeger@westernsydney.edu.au.
(4)School of Science and Health, Western Sydney University, Penrith, NSW, 2751, 
Australia. l.cubeddu@westernsydney.edu.au.
(5)School of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
2006, Australia. l.cubeddu@westernsydney.edu.au.

Single stranded DNA-binding proteins (SSBs) are essential for the maintenance of 
genome integrity and are required in in all known cellular organisms. Over the 
last 10 years, the role of two new human SSBs, hSSB1 (NABP2/OBFC2B) and hSSB2 
(NABP1/OBFC2A), has been described and characterised in various important DNA 
repair processes. Both these proteins are made up of a conserved 
oligonucleotide-binding (OB) fold that is responsible for ssDNA recognition as 
well a unique flexible carboxy-terminal extension involved in protein-protein 
interactions. Due to their similar domain organisation, hSSB1 and hSSB2 have 
been found to display some overlapping functions. However, several studies have 
also revealed cell- and tissue-specific roles for these two proteins, most 
likely due to small but significant differences in the protein sequence of the 
OB domains. While the molecular details of ssDNA binding by hSSB1 has been 
studied extensively, comparatively little is known about hSSB2. In this study, 
we use NMR solution-state backbone resonance assignments of the OB domain of 
hSSB2 to map the ssDNA interaction interface. Our data reveal that ssDNA binding 
by hSSB2 is driven by four key aromatic residues in analogy to hSSB1, however, 
some significant differences in the chemical shift perturbations are observed, 
reflecting differences in ssDNA recognition. Future studies will aim at 
determining the structural basis of these differences and thus help to gain a 
more comprehensive understanding of the functional divergences that these novel 
hSSBs display in the context of genome maintenance.

DOI: 10.1007/s12104-017-9789-9
PMID: 29063999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Eur J Epidemiol. 2017 Sep;32(9):807-850. doi: 10.1007/s10654-017-0321-4.
Epub  2017 Oct 24.

The Rotterdam Study: 2018 update on objectives, design and main results.

Ikram MA(1)(2), Brusselle GGO(3)(4)(5), Murad SD(6)(7), van Duijn CM(3), Franco 
OH(3)(8), Goedegebure A(9), Klaver CCW(3)(10), Nijsten TEC(11), Peeters 
RP(3)(6), Stricker BH(3)(6), Tiemeier H(3)(12), Uitterlinden AG(3)(6), Vernooij 
MW(3)(13), Hofman A(3)(14).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus Medical Center, PO Box 2040, 3000 CA, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. m.a.ikram@erasmusmc.nl.
(2)Department of Neurology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
m.a.ikram@erasmusmc.nl.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus Medical Center, PO Box 2040, 3000 CA, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(5)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, 
Belgium.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(7)Department of Gastro-Enterology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(8)Department of Cardiology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(9)Department of Otolaryngology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(10)Department of Ophthalmology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(11)Department of Dermatology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(12)Department of Psychiatry, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(13)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Erasmus Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(14)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA.

The Rotterdam Study is a prospective cohort study ongoing since 1990 in the city 
of Rotterdam in The Netherlands. The study targets cardiovascular, endocrine, 
hepatic, neurological, ophthalmic, psychiatric, dermatological, 
otolaryngological, locomotor, and respiratory diseases. As of 2008, 14,926 
subjects aged 45 years or over comprise the Rotterdam Study cohort. Since 2016, 
the cohort is being expanded by persons aged 40 years and over. The findings of 
the Rotterdam Study have been presented in over 1500 research articles and 
reports (see www.erasmus-epidemiology.nl/rotterdamstudy ). This article gives 
the rationale of the study and its design. It also presents a summary of the 
major findings and an update of the objectives and methods.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-017-0321-4
PMCID: PMC5662692
PMID: 29064009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Biomedicines. 2017 Oct 24;5(4):62. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines5040062.

Muscle-Bone Crosstalk: Emerging Opportunities for Novel Therapeutic Approaches 
to Treat Musculoskeletal Pathologies.

Maurel DB(1), Jähn K(2), Lara-Castillo N(3).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Sciences Department, Université de Bordeaux, BioTis, INSERM 
Unité 1026, 146 Rue Léo Saignat, 33076 Bordeaux, France. db.maurel@gmail.com.
(2)Department for Osteology and Biomechanics, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, 20246 Hamburg, Germany. k.jaehn@uke.de.
(3)Department of Oral and Craniofacial Sciences, School of Dentistry, University 
of Missouri- Kansas City, 650 E 25th St, Kansas City, MO 64108, USA. 
laran@umkc.edu.

Osteoporosis and sarcopenia are age-related musculoskeletal pathologies that 
often develop in parallel. Osteoporosis is characterized by a reduced bone mass 
and an increased fracture risk. Sarcopenia describes muscle wasting with an 
increasing risk of injuries due to falls. The medical treatment of both diseases 
costs billions in health care per year. With the impact on public health and 
economy, and considering the increasing life expectancy of populations, more 
efficient treatment regimens are sought. The biomechanical interaction between 
both tissues with muscle acting on bone is well established. Recently, both 
tissues were also determined as secretory endocrine organs affecting the 
function of one another. New exciting discoveries on this front are made each 
year, with novel signaling molecules being discovered and potential 
controversies being described. While this review does not claim completeness, it 
will summarize the current knowledge on both the biomechanical and the 
biochemical link between muscle and bone. The review will highlight the known 
secreted molecules by both tissues affecting the other and finish with an 
outlook on novel therapeutics that could emerge from these discoveries.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines5040062
PMCID: PMC5744086
PMID: 29064421

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


647. PLoS One. 2017 Oct 24;12(10):e0185676. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0185676. 
eCollection 2017.

The quality-of-life burden of knee osteoarthritis in New Zealand adults: A 
model-based evaluation.

Abbott JH(1), Usiskin IM(2), Wilson R(1), Hansen P(3), Losina E(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Musculoskeletal Outcomes Research, Department of Surgical 
Sciences, Dunedin School of Medicine, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.
(2)Orthopaedic and Arthritis Center for Outcomes Research, Department of 
Orthopaedic Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, United States of 
America.
(3)Department of Economics, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: Knee osteoarthritis is a leading global cause of health-related 
quality of life loss. The aim of this project was to quantify health losses 
arising from knee osteoarthritis in New Zealand (NZ) in terms of 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) lost.
METHODS: The Osteoarthritis Policy Model (OAPol), a validated Monte Carlo 
computer simulation model, was used to estimate QALYs lost due to knee 
osteoarthritis in the NZ adult population aged 40-84 over their lifetimes from 
the base year of 2006 until death. Data were from the NZ Health Survey, NZ 
Burden of Diseases, NZ Census, and relevant literature. QALYs were derived from 
NZ EQ-5D value set 2. Sensitivity to health state valuation, disease and pain 
prevalence were assessed in secondary analyses.
RESULTS: Based on NZ EQ-5D health state valuations, mean health losses due to 
knee osteoarthritis over people's lifetimes in NZ are 3.44 QALYs per person, 
corresponding to 467,240 QALYs across the adult population. Average estimated 
per person QALY losses are higher for non-Māori females (3.55) than Māori 
females (3.38), and higher for non-Māori males (3.34) than Māori males (2.60). 
The proportion of QALYs lost out of the total quality-adjusted life expectancy 
for those without knee osteoarthritis is similar across all subgroups, ranging 
from 20 to 23 percent.
CONCLUSIONS: At both the individual and population levels, knee osteoarthritis 
is responsible for large lifetime QALY losses. QALY losses are higher for 
females than males due to greater prevalence of knee osteoarthritis and higher 
life expectancy, and lower for Māori than non-Māori due to lower life 
expectancy. Large health gains are potentially realisable from public health and 
policy measures aimed at decreasing incidence, progression, pain, and disability 
of osteoarthritis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0185676
PMCID: PMC5655469
PMID: 29065119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


648. Int J Mol Sci. 2017 Oct 21;18(10):2211. doi: 10.3390/ijms18102211.

Psoriasis and Cardiovascular Comorbidities: Focusing on Severe Vascular Events, 
Cardiovascular Risk Factors and Implications for Treatment.

Hu SC(1)(2), Lan CE(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan. stephenhu30@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung 
807, Taiwan. stephenhu30@hotmail.com.
(3)Department of Dermatology, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan. laneric@cc.kmu.edu.tw.
(4)Department of Dermatology, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung 
807, Taiwan. laneric@cc.kmu.edu.tw.

Psoriasis is a common and chronic inflammatory disease of the skin. It may 
impair the physical and psychosocial function of patients and lead to decreased 
quality of life. Traditionally, psoriasis has been regarded as a disease 
affecting only the skin and joints. More recently, studies have shown that 
psoriasis is a systemic inflammatory disorder which can be associated with 
various comorbidities. In particular, psoriasis is associated with an increased 
risk of developing severe vascular events such as myocardial infarction and 
stroke. In addition, the prevalence rates of cardiovascular risk factors are 
increased, including hypertension, diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, obesity, and 
metabolic syndrome. Consequently, mortality rates have been found to be 
increased and life expectancy decreased in patients with psoriasis, as compared 
to the general population. Various studies have also shown that systemic 
treatments for psoriasis, including methotrexate and tumor necrosis factor-α 
inhibitors, may significantly decrease cardiovascular risk. Mechanistically, the 
presence of common inflammatory pathways, secretion of adipokines, insulin 
resistance, angiogenesis, oxidative stress, microparticles, and 
hypercoagulability may explain the association between psoriasis and 
cardiometabolic disorders. In this article, we review the evidence regarding the 
association between psoriasis and cardiovascular comorbidities, focusing on 
severe vascular events, cardiovascular risk factors and implications for 
treatment.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms18102211
PMCID: PMC5666891
PMID: 29065479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


649. Vasa. 2018 Jan;47(1):17-22. doi: 10.1024/0301-1526/a000669. Epub 2017 Oct
25.

Surgical and endovascular venous arterialization for treatment of critical limb 
ischaemia.

Lichtenberg M(1), Schreve MA(2), Ferraresi R(3), van den Heuvel DAF(4), Ünlü 
Ç(2), Cabane V(5), Kum S(5).

Author information:
(1)1 Vascular Centre Arnsberg, Arnsberg Clinic, Arnsberg, Germany.
(2)2 Department of Surgery, Northwest Clinics, Alkmaar, the Netherlands.
(3)3 Peripheral Interventional Unit, Humanitas Gavazzeni, Bergamo, Italy.
(4)4 Department of Radiology, St. Antonius Hospital, Nieuwegein, the 
Netherlands.
(5)5 Vascular Service, Department of Surgery, Changi General Hospital, Changi, 
Singapore.

Patients with critical limb ischaemia have a poor life expectancy. Aggressive 
revascularization is accepted in order to preserve their independence in the 
final phase of their lives. Bypass surgery and more recently endovascular 
interventions with angioplasty and stenting have become the treatment of choice 
to prevent amputation and to resolve pain. However, as many as 20 % of patients 
with critical limb ischaemia are unsuitable candidates for a vascular 
intervention because of extensive occlusions of outflow in the crural and pedal 
vessels. Such "no-option critical limb ischaemia" may be treated with venous 
arterialization. In the present review, we discuss the history of the venous 
arterialization procedure, the mechanisms, the different techniques, and 
complications of venous arterialization.

DOI: 10.1024/0301-1526/a000669
PMID: 29065790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2017 Jan;33(4):472-480. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462317000897. Epub 2017 Oct 25.

PERFORMANCE OF OVID MEDLINE SEARCH FILTERS TO IDENTIFY HEALTH STATE UTILITY 
STUDIES.

Arber M(1), Garcia S(2), Veale T(2), Edwards M(2), Shaw A(2), Glanville JM(2).

Author information:
(1)York Health Economics Consortiummick.arber@york.ac.uk.
(2)York Health Economics Consortium.

OBJECTIVES: This study was designed to assess the sensitivity of three Ovid 
MEDLINE search filters developed to identify studies reporting health state 
utility values (HSUVs), to improve the performance of the best performing 
filter, and to validate resulting search filters.
METHODS: Three quasi-gold standard sets (QGS1, QGS2, QGS3) of relevant studies 
were harvested from reviews of studies reporting HSUVs. The performance of three 
initial filters was assessed by measuring their relative recall of studies in 
QGS1. The best performing filter was then developed further using QGS2. This 
resulted in three final search filters (FSF1, FSF2, and FSF3), which were 
validated using QGS3.
RESULTS: FSF1 (sensitivity maximizing) retrieved 132/139 records (sensitivity: 
95 percent) in the QGS3 validation set. FSF1 had a number needed to read (NNR) 
of 842. FSF2 (balancing sensitivity and precision) retrieved 128/139 records 
(sensitivity: 92 percent) with a NNR of 502. FSF3 (precision maximizing) 
retrieved 123/139 records (sensitivity: 88 percent) with a NNR of 383.
CONCLUSIONS: We have developed and validated a search filter (FSF1) to identify 
