DOI: 10.5041/RMMJ.10321
PMCID: PMC5796733
PMID: 29135419

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: No potential conflict of 
interest relevant to this article was reported.


858. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2018 Feb 1;77(2):183-192. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0000000000001578.

Cost-Effectiveness of Peer- Versus Venue-Based Approaches for Detecting 
Undiagnosed HIV Among Heterosexuals in High-Risk New York City Neighborhoods.

Stevens ER(1), Nucifora KA(1), Zhou Q(1), Braithwaite RS(1), Cleland CM(2), 
Ritchie AS(2), Kutnick AH(2), Gwadz MV(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Health, NYU School of Medicine, New York, NY.
(2)Center for Drug Use and HIV Research, Rory Meyers College of Nursing, New 
York University, New York, NY.

INTRODUCTION: We used a computer simulation of HIV progression and transmission 
to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a scale-up of 3 strategies to seek out and 
test individuals with undiagnosed HIV in New York City (NYC).
SETTING: Hypothetical NYC population.
METHODS: We incorporated the observed effects and costs of the 3 "seek and test" 
strategies in a computer simulation of HIV in NYC, comparing a scenario in which 
the strategies were scaled up with a 1-year implementation or a long-term 
implementation with a counterfactual scenario with no scale-up. The simulation 
combined a deterministic compartmental model of HIV transmission with a 
stochastic microsimulation of HIV progression, calibrated to NYC epidemiological 
data from 2003 to 2015. The 3 approaches were respondent-driven sampling (RDS) 
with anonymous HIV testing ("RDS-A"), RDS with a 2-session confidential HIV 
testing approach ("RDS-C"), and venue-based sampling ("VBS").
RESULTS: RDS-A was the most cost-effective strategy tested. When implemented for 
only 1 year and then stopped thereafter, using a societal perspective, the cost 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained versus no intervention was 
$812/QALY, $18,110/QALY, and $20,362/QALY for RDS-A, RDS-C, and VBS, 
respectively. When interventions were implemented long term, the cost per QALY 
gained versus no intervention was cost-saving, $31,773/QALY, and $35,148/QALY 
for RDS-A, RDS-C, and VBS, respectively. When compared with RDS-A, the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for both VBS and RDS-C were dominated.
CONCLUSIONS: The expansion of the RDS-A strategy would substantially reduce 
HIV-related deaths and new HIV infections in NYC, and would be either 
cost-saving or have favorable cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0000000000001578
PMCID: PMC5762425
PMID: 29135654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Clin Infect Dis. 2018 Apr 3;66(8):1211-1221. doi: 10.1093/cid/cix983.

Cost-Effectiveness of Community-based Human Immunodeficiency Virus Self-Testing 
in Blantyre, Malawi.

Maheswaran H(1)(2)(3), Clarke A(2), MacPherson P(3)(4), Kumwenda F(3), Lalloo 
DG(3)(4), Corbett EL(3)(5), Petrou S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Policy, University of Liverpool, United 
Kingdom.
(2)Division of Health Sciences, University of Warwick Medical School, Coventry, 
United Kingdom.
(3)Malawi-Liverpool-Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Programme, Blantyre, 
Malawi.
(4)Department of Clinical Sciences, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, 
United Kingdom.
(5)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Human immunodeficiency virus self-testing (HIVST) is effective, with 
scale-up underway in sub-Saharan Africa. We assessed cost-effectiveness of 
adding HIVST to existing facility-based HIV testing and counseling (HTC) 
services. Both 2010 (initiate at CD4 <350 cells/μL) and 2015 (initiate all) 
World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines for antiretroviral treatment (ART) 
were considered.
METHODS: A microsimulation model was developed to evaluate cost-effectiveness, 
from both health provider and societal perspectives, of an HIVST service 
implemented in a cluster-randomized trial (CRT; ISRCTN02004005) in Malawi. Costs 
and health outcomes were evaluated over a 20-year time horizon, using a discount 
rate of 3%. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis was conducted to account for 
parameter uncertainty.
RESULTS: From the health provider perspective and 20-year time horizon, facility 
HTC using 2010 WHO ART guidelines was the least costly ($294.71 per person; 95% 
credible interval [CrI], 270.79-318.45) and least effective (11.64 
quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs] per person; 95% CrI, 11.43-11.86) strategy. 
Compared with this strategy, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for 
facility HTC using 2015 WHO ART guidelines was $226.85 (95% CrI, 198.79-284.35) 
per QALY gained. The strategy of facility HTC plus HIVST, using 2010 WHO ART 
guidelines, was extendedly dominated. The ICER for facility HTC plus HIVST, 
using 2015 WHO ART guidelines, was $253.90 (95% CrI, 201.71-342.02) per QALY 
gained compared with facility HTC and using 2015 WHO ART guidelines.
CONCLUSIONS: HIVST may be cost-effective in a Malawian population with high HIV 
prevalence. HIVST is suited to an early HIV diagnosis and treatment strategy.
CLINICAL TRIALS REGISTRATION: ISRCTN02004005.

DOI: 10.1093/cid/cix983
PMCID: PMC5889018
PMID: 29136117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. PLoS One. 2017 Nov 14;12(11):e0188205. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0188205. 
eCollection 2017.

Community ecology in 3D: Tensor decomposition reveals spatio-temporal dynamics 
of large ecological communities.

Frelat R(1), Lindegren M(2), Dencker TS(2), Floeter J(1), Fock HO(3), Sguotti 
C(1), Stäbler M(4), Otto SA(1), Möllmann C(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Hamburg, Institute for Hydrobiology and Fisheries Science, 
Center for Earth System Research and Sustainability (CEN), KlimaCampus Hamburg, 
Große Elbstraße 133, Hamburg, Germany.
(2)Centre for Ocean Life, National Institute of Aquatic Resources, Technical 
University of Denmark, Kemitorvet, Bygning 202, Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark.
(3)Thünen-Institute of Sea Fisheries, Palmaille 9, Hamburg, Germany.
(4)Leibniz-Centre for Tropical Marine Ecology, Fahrenheitstraße 6, Bremen, 
Germany.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2018 Apr 19;13(4):e0196353.

Understanding spatio-temporal dynamics of biotic communities containing large 
numbers of species is crucial to guide ecosystem management and conservation 
efforts. However, traditional approaches usually focus on studying community 
dynamics either in space or in time, often failing to fully account for 
interlinked spatio-temporal changes. In this study, we demonstrate and promote 
the use of tensor decomposition for disentangling spatio-temporal community 
dynamics in long-term monitoring data. Tensor decomposition builds on 
traditional multivariate statistics (e.g. Principal Component Analysis) but 
extends it to multiple dimensions. This extension allows for the synchronized 
study of multiple ecological variables measured repeatedly in time and space. We 
applied this comprehensive approach to explore the spatio-temporal dynamics of 
65 demersal fish species in the North Sea, a marine ecosystem strongly altered 
by human activities and climate change. Our case study demonstrates how tensor 
decomposition can successfully (i) characterize the main spatio-temporal 
patterns and trends in species abundances, (ii) identify sub-communities of 
species that share similar spatial distribution and temporal dynamics, and (iii) 
reveal external drivers of change. Our results revealed a strong spatial 
structure in fish assemblages persistent over time and linked to differences in 
depth, primary production and seasonality. Furthermore, we simultaneously 
characterized important temporal distribution changes related to the low 
frequency temperature variability inherent in the Atlantic Multidecadal 
Oscillation. Finally, we identified six major sub-communities composed of 
species sharing similar spatial distribution patterns and temporal dynamics. Our 
case study demonstrates the application and benefits of using tensor 
decomposition for studying complex community data sets usually derived from 
large-scale monitoring programs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0188205
PMCID: PMC5685633
PMID: 29136658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


861. Horm Metab Res. 2017 Nov;49(11):860-868. doi: 10.1055/s-0043-119462. Epub
2017  Nov 14.

Only a Rapid Complete Biochemical Remission After 131I-Therapy is Associated 
with an Unimpaired Life Expectancy in Differentiated Thyroid Cancer.

Verburg FA(1)(2), Mäder U(3), Grelle I(1), Giovanella L(4), Reiners C(1), 
Hänscheid H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University of Wuerzburg, Wuerzburg, Germany.
(2)University Hospital Marburg, Department of Nuclear Medicine, Marburg, 
Germany.
(3)Comprehensive Cancer Center Mainfranken, University of Wuerzburg, Wuerzburg, 
Germany.
(4)Oncology Institute of Southern Switzerland, Department of Nuclear Medicine 
and Thyroid Centre, Bellinzona, Switzerland.

The objective of the work was to investigate the relationship between 
thyroglobulin doubling time (TgDT) as a marker of speed of response to 
131I-therapy and the differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) recurrence rate, DTC 
specific mortality rate, and relative survival rate in a DTC population followed 
over a long period of time after 131I-therapy. From our database, data of 1354 
patients were reviewed. TgDT could be calculated in 174 patients, however, 376 
patients did not have sufficient Tg values available for TgDT calculation and 
804 patients reached biochemical remission before a sufficient number of Tg 
measurements for TgDT calculation was acquired. Main outcome measures were 
recurrence-free, DTC specific, and relative survival rates. In patients<45 
years, TgDT in multivariate analysis was identified as the solitary significant 
determinant of DTC specific and relative survival. In patients≥45 years of age 
at diagnosis, TgDT is an independent, but not the only determinant of recurrence 
free, DTC specific, and relative survival. Importantly, in this age group life 
expectancy is normal in patients reaching rapid biochemical remission (i. e., 
before TgDT can be calculated); it was reduced in patients with a negative TgDT, 
which normally is deemed a marker of response to therapy. Only DTC patients with 
a rapid biochemical remission have a very good prognosis with a normal life 
expectancy. If no rapid biochemical remission occurs, both biochemically 
progressive disease and a slower biochemical remission of disease are associated 
with a reduced prognosis, especially in older DTC patients.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0043-119462
PMID: 29136675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: FAV has accepted 
consultancy fees from Bayer and Genzyme as well as speaker honoraria from 
Diasorin and Genzyme. LG has received research support and has accepted 
speakers’ fees and consultancy fees from Roche Healthcare. The other authors 
have no conflicts of interest to disclose.


862. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2017 Nov 6;51(11):1033-1037. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-9624.2017.11.015.

[Analysis on probability of premature death and cause eliminated life expectancy 
of major non-communicable diseases in Chongqing Municipality, 2016].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Ding XB(1), Tang WW, Mao DQ, Jiao Y, Shen ZZ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Non-communicable Disease Prevention and Control, Chongqing 
Center for Disease Prevention and Control, Chongqing 400042, China.

Objective: To analyze the premature death probability and cause-eliminated life 
expectancy of cardiovascular disease, cancer, chronic respiratory disease and 
diabetes in Chongqing residents in 2016 so as to provide recommendation for 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs) prevention and control in Chongqing. Methods: 
Death cases of Chongqing Municipality between January 1(st) and December 31(st), 
2016 were reported through death case registry system of national center for 
disease prevention and control. Death cases were sorted by international 
classification of disease (ICD-10). Mortality rate, standardized mortality rate, 
constituent ratio, premature death probability, life expectancy, and 
cause-eliminated life expectancy of four major NCDs were analyzed. Results: A 
total of 218 004 death cases were reported in Chongqing, 2016, and the mortality 
rate was 731.73/100 000. Of them, a total of 179 637 death cases of the four 
major NCDs including cardiovascular disease, cancer, chronic respiratory disease 
and diabetes were reported, accounting for 82.40% of all death cases. The 
mortality rate and standardized mortality rate of four major NCDs was 602.95/100 
000 and 455.82/100 000, respectively. The premature death probability of four 
major NCDs was 15.96%, and males (25.39%) had a higher premature death 
probability than females (10.78%). The premature death probability of 
cardiovascular disease, cancer, chronic respiratory disease, and diabetes were 
6.01%, 8.32%, 2.05%, and 0.43%, respectively. Life expectancy would increase by 
6.02, 3.19, 1.89, and 0.19 years, after eliminating cardiovascular disease, 
cancer, chronic respiratory disease and diabetes respectively. Conclusion: The 
premature death probability of major NCDs was high in Chongqing, and males had a 
higher premature death probability than females did. Intervention and health 
management of the population should be conducted according to different 
gender-based risk factors to reduce the premature death probability.

Publisher: 目的： 
分析2016年重庆市居民心脑血管疾病、恶性肿瘤、慢性呼吸系统疾病、糖尿病等四类主要慢性病早死概率及去死因期望寿命情况，为开展慢性病防治工作提供建议。 方法： 
重庆市2016年居民死亡个案数据(死亡日期为2016年1月1日至12月31日)全部来源于中国疾病预防控制系统死因登记报告信息系统，按照国际疾病分类第10版（ICD-10）对死亡个案进行编码，分析心脑血管疾病、恶性肿瘤、慢性呼吸系统疾病、糖尿病等四类主要慢性病的死亡率、标化死亡率、构成比、早死概率、期望寿命、去死因期望寿命。 
结果： 2016年重庆市报告死亡病例218 004例，死亡率为731.73/10万。四类主要慢性病死亡共计179 
637例，占总死亡的82.40%；死亡率与标化死亡率分别为602.95/10万与455.82/10万；早死概率为15.96%，男性（25.39%）高于女性（10.78%）。心脑血管疾病、恶性肿瘤、慢性呼吸系统疾病和糖尿病的早死概率分别为6.01%、8.32%、2.05%和0.43%。分别去除心脑血管疾病、恶性肿瘤、慢性呼吸系统疾病与糖尿病后，增长的期望寿命分别是6.02、3.19、1.89与0.19年。 
结论： 重庆市主要慢性病早死概率高，男性高于女性，应针对不同性别间的危险因素开展干预和人群的健康管理，降低早死概率。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-9624.2017.11.015
PMID: 29136751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Ann Surg. 2017 Dec;266(6):e57. doi: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000001356.

Impact of Bariatric Surgery on Life Expectancy in Severely Obese Patients With 
Diabetes.

Buchwald H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Minnesota Minneapolis, MN.

Comment in
    Ann Surg. 2017 Dec;266(6):e57-e58.

Comment on
    Ann Surg. 2015 May;261(5):914-9.

DOI: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000001356
PMID: 29136968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Ann Surg. 2017 Dec;266(6):e57-e58. doi: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000001398.

Impact of Bariatric Surgery on Life Expectancy in Severely Obese Patients With 
Diabetes.

Schauer DP(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH.

Comment on
    Ann Surg. 2015 May;261(5):914-9.
    Ann Surg. 2017 Dec;266(6):e57.

DOI: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000001398
PMID: 29136969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. BMJ. 2017 Nov 14;359:j4859. doi: 10.1136/bmj.j4859.

Comparative clinical effectiveness and cost effectiveness of endovascular 
strategy v open repair for ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm: three year 
results of the IMPROVE randomised trial.

IMPROVE Trial Investigators.

Collaborators: Ulug P, Sweeting MJ, Gomes M, Hinchcliffe RJ, Thompson MM, 
Thompson SG, Grieve RD, Ashleigh R, Greenhalgh RM, Powell JT.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2017 Nov 14;359:j5170.

Objective To assess the three year clinical outcomes and cost effectiveness of a 
strategy of endovascular repair (if aortic morphology is suitable, open repair 
if not) versus open repair for patients with suspected ruptured abdominal aortic 
aneurysm.Design Randomised controlled trial.Setting 30 vascular centres (29 in 
UK, one in Canada), 2009-16.Participants 613 eligible patients (480 men) with a 
clinical diagnosis of ruptured aneurysm, of whom 502 underwent emergency repair 
for rupture.Interventions 316 patients were randomised to an endovascular 
strategy (275 with confirmed rupture) and 297 to open repair (261 with confirmed 
rupture).Main outcome measures Mortality, with reinterventions after aneurysm 
repair, quality of life, and hospital costs to three years as secondary 
measures.Results The maximum follow-up for mortality was 7.1 years, with two 
patients in each group lost to follow-up by three years. After similar mortality 
by 90 days, in the mid-term (three months to three years) there were fewer 
deaths in the endovascular than the open repair group (hazard ratio 0.57, 95% 
confidence interval 0.36 to 0.90), leading to lower mortality at three years 
(48% v 56%), but by seven years mortality was about 60% in each group (hazard 
ratio 0.92, 0.75 to 1.13). Results for the 502 patients with repaired ruptures 
were more pronounced: three year mortality was lower in the endovascular 
strategy group (42% v 54%; odds ratio 0.62, 0.43 to 0.88), but after seven years 
there was no clear difference between the groups (hazard ratio 0.86, 0.68 to 
1.08). Reintervention rates up to three years were not significantly different 
between the randomised groups (hazard ratio 1.02, 0.79 to 1.32); the initial 
rapid rate of reinterventions was followed by a much slower mid-term 
reintervention rate in both groups. The early higher average quality of life in 
the endovascular strategy versus open repair group, coupled with the lower 
mortality at three years, led to a gain in average quality adjusted life years 
(QALYs) at three years of 0.17 (95% confidence interval 0.00 to 0.33). The 
endovascular strategy group spent fewer days in hospital and had lower average 
costs of -£2605 (95% confidence interval -£5966 to £702) (about €2813; $3439). 
The probability that the endovascular strategy is cost effective was >90% at all 
levels of willingness to pay for a QALY gain.Conclusions At three years, 
compared with open repair, an endovascular strategy for suspected ruptured 
abdominal aortic aneurysm was associated with a survival advantage, a gain in 
QALYs, similar levels of reintervention, and reduced costs, and this strategy 
was cost effective. These findings support the increasing use of an endovascular 
strategy, with wider availability of emergency endovascular repair.Trial 
registration Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN48334791; ClinicalTrials 
NCT00746122.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.j4859
PMCID: PMC5682594
PMID: 29138135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the ICMJE uniform disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf and 
declare: no support from any organisation for the submitted work;no financial 
relationships with any organisations that might have an interest in the 
submitted work in the previous three years; no other relationships or activities 
that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


866. Can Fam Physician. 2017 Nov;63(11):832-843.

Deprescribing antihyperglycemic agents in older persons: Evidence-based clinical 
practice guideline.

Farrell B(1), Black C(2), Thompson W(3), McCarthy L(4), Rojas-Fernandez C(5), 
Lochnan H(6), Shamji S(7), Upshur R(8), Bouchard M(9), Welch V(10).

Author information:
(1)Scientist at the Bruyère Research Institute and C.T. Lamont Primary Health 
Care Research Centre, Assistant Professor in the Department of Family Medicine 
at the University of Ottawa in Ontario, and Adjunct Assistant Professor in the 
School of Pharmacy at the University of Waterloo in Ontario. 
bfarrell@bruyere.org.
(2)Research Coordinator at the Bruyère Research Institute.
(3)Research Coordinator at the Bruyère Research Institute and a master's 
candidate in the School of Epidemiology, Public Health and Preventive Medicine 
at the University of Ottawa.
(4)Assistant Professor in the Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy at the University 
of Toronto in Ontario and a pharmacy scientist at Women's College Hospital 
Research Institute.
(5)Assistant Professor in the School of Pharmacy and the School of Public Health 
and Health Systems at the University of Waterloo and Schlegel Research Chair in 
Geriatric Pharmacotherapy at the Schlegel-University of Waterloo Research 
Institute on Ageing.
(6)Associate Professor of Medicine at the University of Ottawa and is an 
endocrinologist at the Ottawa Hospital.
(7)Assistant Professor in the Department of Family Medicine at the University of 
Ottawa.
(8)Professor in the Dalla Lana School of Public Health at the University of 
Toronto.
(9)Nurse practitioner with the Bruyère Academic Family Health Team.
(10)Assistant Professor in the School of Epidemiology, Public Health and 
Preventive Medicine, Deputy Director of the Centre for Global Health at the 
University of Ottawa, and a clinical epidemiology methodologist at the Bruyère 
Research Institute.

OBJECTIVE: To develop an evidence-based guideline to help clinicians make 
decisions about when and how to safely taper, stop, or switch antihyperglycemic 
agents in older adults.
METHODS: We focused on the highest level of evidence available and sought input 
from primary care professionals in guideline development, review, and 
endorsement processes. Seven clinicians (2 family physicians, 3 pharmacists, 1 
nurse practitioner, and 1 endocrinologist) and a methodologist comprised the 
overall team; members disclosed conflicts of interest. We used a rigorous 
process, including the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development 
and Evaluation) approach, for guideline development. We conducted a systematic 
review to assess evidence for the benefits and harms of deprescribing 
antihyperglycemic agents. We performed a review of reviews of the harms of 
continued antihyperglycemic medication use, and narrative syntheses of patient 
preferences and resource implications. We used these syntheses and GRADE 
quality-of-evidence ratings to generate recommendations. The team refined 
guideline content and recommendation wording through consensus and synthesized 
clinical considerations to address common front-line clinician questions. The 
draft guideline was distributed to clinicians and stakeholders for review and 
revisions were made at each stage. A decision-support algorithm was developed to 
accompany the guideline.
RECOMMENDATIONS: We recommend deprescribing antihyperglycemic medications known 
to contribute to hypoglycemia in older adults at risk or in situations where 
antihyperglycemic medications might be causing other adverse effects, and 
individualizing targets and deprescribing accordingly for those who are frail, 
have dementia, or have a limited life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: This guideline provides practical recommendations for making 
decisions about deprescribing antihyperglycemic agents. Recommendations are 
meant to assist with, not dictate, decision making in conjunction with patients.

Copyright© the College of Family Physicians of Canada.

PMCID: PMC5685444
PMID: 29138153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. BMJ. 2017 Nov 14;359:j5284. doi: 10.1136/bmj.j5284.

Air pollution, diet, and obesity pose growing threats to health in India, 
analysis finds.

Mayor S(1).

Author information:
(1)London.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.j5284
PMID: 29138188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Cent Asian J Glob Health. 2015 Mar 10;4(1):138. doi: 10.5195/cajgh.2015.138.
 eCollection 2015.

Prevalence of Psychiatric Disorders among the Rural Geriatric Population: A 
Pilot Study in Karnataka, India.

Nair SS(1), Raghunath P(2), Nair SS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Navodaya Medical College, Raichur, 
Karnataka, India.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Pushpagiri Institute of Medical Sciences and 
Research Center, Tiruvalla, Kottayam, Kerala, India.
(3)Department of Forensic Medicine, Academy of Medical Sciences, Pariyaram, 
Kannur, Kerala, India.

BACKGROUND: Increasing life expectancy around the world, an outstanding 
achievement of our century, has brought with it new public health challenges. 
India is the second most populous country in the world, with over 72 million 
inhabitants above 60 years of age as of 2001. The life expectancy in India 
increased from 32 years in 1947 to over 66 years in 2010, with 8.0% of the 
population now reaching over 60 years of age. Few studies in India target the 
health, especially mental health, of this geriatric population. This study aims 
to estimate the current prevalence of psychiatric disorders in the geriatric 
population of the rural area of Singanodi,Karnataka, India.
METHODS: This cross sectional, epidemiological, community-based study was 
conducted in a rural health training area of Singanodi, Raichur District, 
Karnataka, India.The General Health Questionnaire-12, Mini Mental State 
Examination, and Geriatric Depression Scale were administered to 366 
participants. Chi square tests with Yates correction were utilized for 
statistical analysis using SPSS 19.0 software.
RESULTS: We found that 33.9% of the geriatric population in the selected 
province were above the threshold for mental illness based on the GHQ-12 
questionnaire. Females had a higher prevalence of mental disorder at 77.6% (152 
out of 196) as compared to males who had a prevalence of 42.4% (72 out of 170). 
The most common psychiatric disorder was depression (21.9%), and generalized 
anxiety was present in 10.7% of the study population. Prevalence of cognitive 
impairment was 16.3%, with a significantly higher percentage of affected 
individuals in 80+ age group.
CONCLUSION: Mental disorders are common among elderly people, but they are not 
well documented in rural India. The assessment of psychiatric disorder 
prevalence will help strengthen psycho-geriatric services and thus improve the 
quality of life of the elderly. A system that ensures comprehensive health care 
will have to be developed for this purpose as part of our future efforts.

DOI: 10.5195/cajgh.2015.138
PMCID: PMC5661194
PMID: 29138712


869. J Gen Intern Med. 2018 Mar;33(3):284-290. doi: 10.1007/s11606-017-4212-x.
Epub  2017 Nov 14.

Downstream Breast Imaging Following Screening Mammography in Medicare Patients 
with Advanced Cancer: A Population-Based Study.

Sadigh G(1), Duszak R Jr(2), Ward KC(3), Jiang R(3), Switchenko JM(4), Applegate 
KE(5), Carlos RC(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Emory University School of 
Medicine, 1364 Clifton Rd, Atlanta, GA, 30322, USA. gsadigh@emory.edu.
(2)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Emory University School of 
Medicine, 1364 Clifton Rd, Atlanta, GA, 30322, USA.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, Emory University Rollins School of Public Health, 
Atlanta, GA, USA.
(4)Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Emory University Rollins 
School of Public Health, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(5)Department of Radiology, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA.
(6)Department of Radiology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 2018 Mar;33(3):238-240.

BACKGROUND: Screening tests are generally not recommended in patients with 
advanced cancer and limited life expectancy. Nonetheless, screening mammography 
still occurs and may lead to follow-up testing.
OBJECTIVE: We assessed the frequency of downstream breast imaging following 
screening mammography in patients with advanced colorectal or lung cancer.
DESIGN: Population-based study.
PARTICIPANTS: The study included continuously enrolled female fee-for-service 
Medicare beneficiaries ≥65 years of age with advanced colorectal (stage IV) or 
lung (stage IIIB-IV) cancer reported to a Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End 
Results (SEER) registry between 2000 and 2011.
MAIN MEASURES: We assessed the utilization of diagnostic mammography, breast 
ultrasound, and breast MRI following screening mammography. Logistic regression 
models were used to explore independent predictors of utilization of downstream 
tests while controlling for cancer type and patient sociodemographic and 
regional characteristics.
KEY RESULTS: Among 34,127 women with advanced cancer (23% colorectal; 77% lung 
cancer; mean age at diagnosis 75 years), 9% (n = 3159) underwent a total of 5750 
screening mammograms. Of these, 11% (n = 639) resulted in at least one 
subsequent diagnostic breast imaging examination within 9 months. Diagnostic 
mammography was most common (9%; n = 532), followed by ultrasound (6%; n = 334) 
and MRI (0.2%; n = 14). Diagnostic mammography rates were higher in whites than 
African Americans (OR, 1.6; p <0.05). Higher ultrasound utilization was 
associated with more favorable economic status (OR, 1.8; p <0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Among women with advanced colorectal and lung cancer, 9% continued 
screening mammography, and 11% of these screening studies led to at least one 
additional downstream test, resulting in costs with little likelihood of 
meaningful benefit.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-017-4212-x
PMCID: PMC5834957
PMID: 29139055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


870. Practitioner. 2017 Mar;261(1802):13-7.

Preventing stroke and assessing risk in women.

Keteepe-Arachi T, Sharma S.

Ischaemic stroke is rare in premenopausal women but risk increases with 
advancing age and doubles in the ten years following the menopause. Up to the 
age of 75 years men have a 25% higher risk of suffering a stroke compared with 
women. However, the increased life expectancy of women ultimately results in a 
higher overall incidence. Twice as many women die from stroke compare with 
breast cancer. Women with cerebrovascular disease are more likely to present 
with atypical symptoms than men. Altered mental status (including 
unresponsiveness, confusion and behavioural change) is the most common 
nonconventional symptom, and is reported by 23% of women compared with 15% of 
men. Other nonconventional symptoms reported more commonly by women include face 
or hemibody pain, lightheadedness and headache. Atrial fibrillation (AF) and 
hypertension, although less common than in men, are more potent risk factors for 
stroke in women. Compared with men with AF, women with AF are at increased risk 
of ischaemic stroke (6.2% versus 4.2% per year). This increased risk persists in 
anticoagulated patients with a relative risk ratio of 2.0. Pregnancy is a unique 
risk factor for stroke in women. The risk is highest in the third trimester and 
peripartum period. Women with hypertension in pregnancy, whether secondary to 
pre-existing disease, preeclampsia or eclampsia have a six-to nine-fold 
increased risk of stroke compared with normotensive women. Preeclampsia doubles 
the risk of stroke in later life. Gestational diabetes is also associated with 
higher risk of stroke extending beyond childbearing years.

PMID: 29139276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. J Med Econ. 2018 Apr;21(4):318-325. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2017.1405816. Epub
 2017 Dec 4.

Cost-utility analysis of life-long prophylaxis with recombinant factor VIIIFc vs 
recombinant factor VIII for the management of severe hemophilia A in Sweden.

Henry N(1), Jovanović J(1), Schlueter M(1), Kritikou P(2), Wilson K(2), Myrén 
KJ(2).

Author information:
(1)a IQVIA , London , UK.
(2)b Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB , Stockholm , Sweden.

AIMS: Prophylaxis with recombinant factor VIII (rFVIII) is the standard of care 
for severe hemophilia A in Sweden. The need for frequent injections with 
existing rFVIII products may, however, result in poor adherence to prophylaxis, 
leading to increased bleeding and long-term joint damage. Recombinant FVIIIFc 
(rFVIIIFc) is an extended half-life fusion protein which can offer prolonged 
protection and reduced dosing frequency. The objective of this study was to 
evaluate the cost-utility of prophylaxis with rFVIIIFc in severe hemophilia A 
from the perspective of the Swedish health system.
METHODS: A Markov model was built to estimate lifetime costs and benefits of 
prophylaxis with rFVIIIFc vs rFVIII products. Clinical outcomes were represented 
by annualized bleeding rate (ABR) and quality of life via disutility applied to 
bleeding events and injection frequency. Costs included the cost of FVIII for 
routine prophylaxis and bleed resolution. The pooled comparator was costed by 
weighting the cost of individual products by their market share.
RESULTS: In the base case, rFVIIIFc was dominant vs the pooled comparator. 
Savings of SEK 9.0 million per patient resulted from lower factor consumption 
for prophylaxis and bleed resolution. Fewer bleeds and reduced injection 
frequency yielded an estimated 0.59 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Results 
were sensitive to drug dosage and robust to variation in other parameters. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis suggested a greater than 85% probability of 
rFVIIIFc being cost-effective at a willingness-to-pay threshold of 500,000 
SEK/QALY.
LIMITATIONS: Due to unavailibilty of patient-level data, treatment benefit was 
based on a non-adjusted indirect comparison. Dosing and treatment outcomes were 
assumed to persist over the model duration in the absence of long-term outcome 
data.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that rFVIIIFc may be a cost-effective option for 
hemophilia A prophylaxis, generating greater quality of life and reduced costs 
for the Swedish payer compared to more frequently administered rFVIII 
alternatives.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2017.1405816
PMID: 29139314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2017 Nov 15;14(11):1391. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph14111391.

The Trends in Cardiovascular Diseases and Respiratory Diseases Mortality in 
Urban and Rural China, 1990-2015.

Sun W(1)(2), Zhou Y(3)(4), Zhang Z(5)(6), Cao L(7)(8), Chen W(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational & Environmental Health, School of Public Health, 
Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 
430030, China. sunweiwei0124@163.com.
(2)Key Laboratory of Environment and Health, Ministry of Education & Ministry of 
Environmental Protection, and State Key Laboratory of Environmental Health 
(Incubating), School of Public Health, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, China. 
sunweiwei0124@163.com.
(3)Department of Occupational & Environmental Health, School of Public Health, 
Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 
430030, China. sarayunzhou@gmail.com.
(4)Key Laboratory of Environment and Health, Ministry of Education & Ministry of 
Environmental Protection, and State Key Laboratory of Environmental Health 
(Incubating), School of Public Health, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, China. 
sarayunzhou@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Occupational & Environmental Health, School of Public Health, 
Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 
430030, China. doremy1325@163.com.
(6)Key Laboratory of Environment and Health, Ministry of Education & Ministry of 
Environmental Protection, and State Key Laboratory of Environmental Health 
(Incubating), School of Public Health, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, China. doremy1325@163.com.
(7)Department of Occupational & Environmental Health, School of Public Health, 
Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 
430030, China. clm_328@163.com.
(8)Key Laboratory of Environment and Health, Ministry of Education & Ministry of 
Environmental Protection, and State Key Laboratory of Environmental Health 
(Incubating), School of Public Health, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, China. clm_328@163.com.
(9)Department of Occupational & Environmental Health, School of Public Health, 
Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 
430030, China. wchen@mails.tjmu.edu.cn.
(10)Key Laboratory of Environment and Health, Ministry of Education & Ministry 
of Environmental Protection, and State Key Laboratory of Environmental Health 
(Incubating), School of Public Health, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, China. 
wchen@mails.tjmu.edu.cn.

With the rapid development of the economy over the past 20 years, the mortality 
rates from cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) and respiratory diseases (RDs) have 
changed in China. This study aimed to analyze the trends of mortality rates and 
years of life lost (YLLs) from CVDs and RDs in the rural and urban population 
from 1990 to 2015. Using data from Chinese yearbooks, joinpoint regression 
analysis was employed to estimate the annual percent change (APC) of mortality 
rates from CVDs and RDs. YLLs due to CVDs and RDs were calculated by a standard 
method, adopting recommended standard life expectancy at birth values of 80 
years for men and 82.5 years for women. Age-standardized mortality rates and YLL 
rates were calculated by using the direct method based on the Chinese population 
from the sixth population census of 2010. Age-standardized mortality rates from 
CVDs for urban residents and from RDs for both urban and rural residents showed 
decreasing trends in China from 1990 to 2015. Age-standardized mortality rates 
from CVDs among rural residents remained constant during above period and 
outstripped those among urban residents gradually. The age-standardized YLL 
rates of CVDs for urban and rural residents decreased 35.2% and 8.3% 
respectively. Additionally, the age-standardized YLL rates of RDs for urban and 
rural residents decreased 64.2% and 79.0% respectively. The age-standardized 
mortality and YLL rates from CVDs and RDs gradually decreased in China from 1990 
to 2015. We observed more substantial declines of the mortality rates from CVDs 
in urban areas and from RDs in rural areas.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph14111391
PMCID: PMC5708030
PMID: 29140293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


873. Food Drug Law J. 2017;72(1):189-224.

Killing U.S. Slowly: Curing the Epidemic Rise of Cancer Drug Prices.

White EK.

In August 2015, more than 110 U.S. oncologists published an article detailing 
the deleterious effects of rising cancer drugs prices and calling for numerous 
reforms to our prescription drug system. These prices are the result of decades 
of political maneuvering; they reflect the way our country has chosen to pay for 
healthcare, to foster and reward innovation, and to promote a national free 
market system. While these choices have resulted in immense profits for 
pharmaceutical companies—and subsidized the development of prescription drugs 
globally—they have also left many cancer patients unable to afford their 
medications. And, without providing significant improvements in life expectancy, 
the rising prices of cancer drugs seem like an unreasonable burden on U.S. 
healthcare spending. A multitude of reforms have been proposed. At the federal 
level, many of the reforms seek to amend existing regulatory regimes, such as 
allowing Medicare to negotiate drug prices, reforming the patent system, and 
allowing patients to import drugs from other countries. The pharmaceutical and 
biotechnology industries have pushed back against almost all of them. Some of 
these proposals are more ambitious than others; some more likely to succeed. 
With costs rising every day, policy makers, legislators, and industry 
professionals need to focus their attention on those reforms that are attainable 
and will result in sustainable, reduced prescription drug prices. This paper 
discusses various U.S. regulatory frameworks that impact prescription drug 
prices and evaluates proposed reforms to these frameworks in terms of which ones 
are most likely to succeed.

PMID: 29140658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Anticancer Agents Med Chem. 2018;18(7):940-950. doi: 
10.2174/1871520617666171113123443.

A Review on the Management of Small Renal Masses: Active Surveillance Versus 
Surgery.

Marra G(1), Oderda M(1), Allasia M(1), Munegato S(1), Joniau S(2), Gontero P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, San Giovanni Battista Hospital, Citta della Salute e 
della Scienza, University of Turin, Turin, Italy.
(2)Department of Urology, Leuven University Hospitals, Leuven, Belgium.

Despite the rise of small renal tumour (SRMs) diagnosis and related surgeries, 
death rate of kidney cancer is increasing, suggesting a non-optimal management 
of SRMs. Active Surveillance (AS) for kidney cancer was introduced to deal with 
this paradox. However, incertitude remains on whether and when AS can replace 
surgery in selected patients. We performed a literature search, reviewed and 
discussed the evidence in favour of AS or surgery for SRMs. Histopathology and 
natural history of SRMs, including the percentage of benign tumours amongst 
SRMs, tumour growth rate, life expectancy of SRMs patients being generally 
older, and current results of AS series seem to support its use in selected 
groups. However, kidney cancer is a heterogeneous entity, metastasis and ≥T3a 
status can be found also for SRMs and no biomarkers or other parameters are 
available to identify lethal SRMs. Despite the recent improvement in the 
diagnostic and prognostic work through imaging modalities, renal biopsies and 
nomograms, the interpretation of a survival plot subjectively is still not 
possible. The majority of AS studies are retrospective and extensive level 1 
evidence cohorts with long term follow up are lacking. No unanimity is present 
regarding inclusion and exclusion criteria to undergo AS, follow up timings and 
AS exit criteria. Surgery is the only definitive treatment and remains the 
current standard. A better understanding of kidney cancer biology and SRMs 
behaviour is needed to clarify the role of AS and its indications.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.org.

DOI: 10.2174/1871520617666171113123443
PMID: 29141564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. BMC Public Health. 2017 Nov 15;17(1):879. doi: 10.1186/s12889-017-4890-7.

Worklife expectancy in a cohort of Danish employees aged 55-65 years - comparing 
a multi-state Cox proportional hazard approach with conventional multi-state 
life tables.

Pedersen J(1), Bjorner JB(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)National Research Centre for the Working Environment (NRCWE), Lersø Parkallé 
105, 2100, Copenhagen Ø, Denmark. jpe@arbejdsmiljoforskning.dk.
(2)National Research Centre for the Working Environment (NRCWE), Lersø Parkallé 
105, 2100, Copenhagen Ø, Denmark.
(3)Department of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Optum, Johnston, RI, USA.

BACKGROUND: Work life expectancy (WLE) expresses the expected time a person will 
remain in the labor market until he or she retires. This paper compares a life 
table approach to estimating WLE to an approach based on multi-state 
proportional hazards models. The two methods are used to estimate WLE in Danish 
members and non-members of an early retirement pensioning (ERP) scheme according 
to levels of health.
METHODS: In 2008, data on self-rated health (SRH) was collected from 5212 
employees 55-65 years of age. Data on previous and subsequent long-term sickness 
absence, unemployment, returning to work, and disability pension was collected 
from national registers. WLE was estimated from multi-state life tables and 
through multi-state models.
RESULTS: Results from the multi-state model approach agreed with the life table 
approach but provided narrower confidence intervals for small groups. The 
shortest WLE was seen for employees with poor SRH and ERP membership while the 
longest WLE was seen for those with good SRH and no ERP membership. Employees 
aged 55-56 years with poor SRH but no ERP membership had shorter WLE than 
employees with good SRH and ERP membership. Relative WLE reversed for the two 
groups after age 57. At age 55, employees with poor SRH could be expected to 
spend approximately 12 months on long-term sick leave and 9-10 months unemployed 
before they retired - regardless of ERP membership. ERP members with poor SRH 
could be expected to spend 4.6 years working, while non-members could be 
expected to spend 7.1 years working.
CONCLUSION: WLE estimated through multi-state models provided an effective way 
to summarize complex data on labor market affiliation. WLE differed noticeably 
between members and non-members of the ERP scheme. It has been hypothesized that 
while ERP membership would prompt some employees to retire earlier than they 
would have done otherwise, this effect would be partly offset by reduced time 
spent on long-term sick leave or unemployment. Our data showed no indication of 
such an effect, but this could be due to residual confounding and self-selection 
of people with poor health into the ERP scheme.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-017-4890-7
PMCID: PMC5688741
PMID: 29141598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: 
According to Danish law, research studies that use solely questionnaire and 
register data do not need approval from the National Committee on Health 
Research Ethics (Den Nationale Videnskabetiske Komité). CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: 
Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no 
competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with 
regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


876. Mult Scler Relat Disord. 2017 Nov;18:95-102. doi:
10.1016/j.msard.2017.09.012.  Epub 2017 Sep 23.

Long-term follow-up of a randomized study of combination interferon and 
glatiramer acetate in multiple sclerosis: Efficacy and safety results up to 7 
years.

Lublin FD(1), Cofield SS(2), Cutter GR(2), Gustafson T(3), Krieger S(3), 
Narayana PA(4), Nelson F(5), Salter AR(6), Wolinsky JS(5).

Author information:
(1)Corinne Goldsmith Dickinson Center for Multiple Sclerosis, Department of 
Neurology & Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 5 
East 98th Street, New York, NY, United States. Electronic address: 
fred.lublin@mssm.edu.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, AL, United States.
(3)Corinne Goldsmith Dickinson Center for Multiple Sclerosis, Department of 
Neurology & Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 5 
East 98th Street, New York, NY, United States.
(4)McGovern Medical School, Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Imaging, 
University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, United 
States.
(5)McGovern Medical School, Department of Neurology, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, United States.
(6)Department of Biostatistics, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, United States.

BACKGROUND: To report the long-term results of the blinded extension phase of 
the randomized, controlled study of the combined use of interferon beta-1a (IFN) 
30μg IM weekly and glatiramer acetate (GA) 20mg daily compared to each agent 
alone in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS).
METHODS: 1008 RRMS patients were followed on protocol until the last participant 
enrolled completed 3 years, allowing some subjects to be followed for up to 7 
years. The primary endpoint was reduction in annualized relapse rate. Secondary 
outcomes included time to confirmed disability, Multiple Sclerosis Functional 
Composite (MSFC) score and MRI metrics.
RESULTS: Similar to the core study, combination IFN + GA was not superior to the 
better of the single agents (GA) in risk of relapse. Both the combination 
therapy and GA were significantly better than IFN in reducing the risk of 
relapse. The combination was not better than either agent alone in lessening 
confirmed EDSS worsening or change in MSFC. Also similar to the core result, the 
combination was superior to either agent alone in reducing new lesion activity, 
but the 3 year MRI result did not presage a clinical benefit over the extended 
observation interval.
CONCLUSION: Combining GA & IFN did not produce a significant clinical benefit 
over the entire study duration. The earlier effect on reducing MRI activity did 
not result in a later clinical advantage. The combination showed a sustained 
advantage in reducing disease activity free status.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.msard.2017.09.012
PMCID: PMC5726798
PMID: 29141831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author Conflicts of Interest Fred Lublin, MD, 
has received consulting fees/fees for non-CME/CE activities from Bayer 
HealthCare Pharmaceuticals, Biogen, EMD Serono, Novartis, Teva Neuroscience, 
Actelion, Sanofi/Genzyme, Acorda, Questcor/Mallinckrodt, Roche/Genentech, 
MedImmune, Osmotica, Xenoport, Receptos/Celgene, Forward Pharma, Akros, TG 
Therapeutics, AbbVie, Toyama, Amgen, Medday, Atara Biotherapeutics, Polypharma, 
Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Revalesio, Coronado Bioscience, and Bristol-Myers 
Squibb; has served on speakers’ bureaus for Genentech/Roche and Genzyme/Sanofi; 
has performed contracted research for Acorda, Biogen, Novartis, Teva 
Neuroscience, Genzyme, Xenoport, and Receptos; is the co-chief editor of 
Multiple Sclerosis and Related Disorders; and has an ownership interest in 
Cognition Pharmaceuticals. Stacey S. Cofield, PhD, Gary Cutter, PhD, has 
participated on Data and Safety Monitoring Committees for AMO Pharma, Apotek, 
Gilead Pharmaceuticals, Horizon Pharmaceuticals, Modigenetech/Prolor, Merck, 
Merck/Pfizer, Opko Biologics, Neuren, Sanofi-Aventis, Reata Pharmaceuticals, 
Receptos/Celgene, Teva Pharmaceuticals, NHLBI (Protocol Review Committee), and 
NICHD (OPRU Oversight Committee); has received consulting fees from and/or 
served on speakers’ bureaus and scientific advisory boards for Cerespir, 
Genzyme, Genentech, Innate Therapeutics, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Klein-Buendel 
Incorporated, MedImmune, Medday, Nivalis, Novartis, Opexa Therapeutics, Roche, 
Savara, Somahlution, Teva Pharmaceuticals, Transparency Life Sciences, and TG 
Therapeutics; and is President of Pythagoras, Inc., a private consulting company 
located in Birmingham, AL. Tarah Gustafson, has nothing to disclose. Stephen 
Krieger, MD, Consulting/Advisory Board: Acorda Therapeutics; Bayer Healthcare; 
Biogen Idec; EMD Serono; Genentech, Inc.; Genzyme Corporation; Novartis; Takeda 
Pharmaceuticals; and Teva Pharmaceuticals. Industry-sponsored non-promotional 
lectures: Genzyme Corporation and Biogen Idec. Dr Ponnada A. Narayana, PhD, has 
nothing to disclose Flavia Nelson, MD, has nothing to disclose Amber R. Salter, 
PhD, has nothing to disclose Jerry S. Wolinsky, MD, has received, within the 
last year, consulting fees from AbbVie, Alkermes, Bayer HealthCare, Forward 
Pharma, MedDay, Novartis, Roche Genentech, Sanofi Genzyme, Takeda and Teva. 
Royalties from the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston for 
monoclonal antibodies out-licenced to Chemicon International.


877. BMJ Open. 2017 Nov 15;7(11):e017722. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-017722.

Effects of health and social care spending constraints on mortality in England: 
a time trend analysis.

Watkins J(1)(2), Wulaningsih W(2)(3), Da Zhou C(4), Marshall DC(5), Sylianteng 
GDC(2)(6), Dela Rosa PG(2)(7), Miguel VA(2)(8), Raine R(9), King LP(10), 
Maruthappu M(9).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Mathematical and Molecular Biomedicine, King's College London, 
London, UK.
(2)PILAR Research and Education, Cambridge, UK.
(3)MRC Unit for Lifelong Health and Ageing, University College London, London, 
UK.
(4)Medical Sciences Division, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(5)Oxford University Clinical Academic Graduate School, John Radcliffe Hospital, 
Oxford, UK.
(6)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(7)University of the Philippines Manila, Manila, Philippines.
(8)University of the Philippines Diliman, Quezon City, Philippines.
(9)Department of Applied Health Research, University College London, London, UK.
(10)Department of Sociology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.

Comment in
    Int J Public Health. 2020 Jun;65(5):519-520.

OBJECTIVE: Since 2010, England has experienced relative constraints in public 
expenditure on healthcare (PEH) and social care (PES). We sought to determine 
whether these constraints have affected mortality rates.
METHODS: We collected data on health and social care resources and finances for 
England from 2001 to 2014. Time trend analyses were conducted to compare the 
actual mortality rates in 2011-2014 with the counterfactual rates expected based 
on trends before spending constraints. Fixed-effects regression analyses were 
conducted using annual data on PES and PEH with mortality as the outcome, with 
further adjustments for macroeconomic factors and resources. Analyses were 
stratified by age group, place of death and lower-tier local authority (n=325). 
Mortality rates to 2020 were projected based on recent trends.
RESULTS: Spending constraints between 2010 and 2014 were associated with an 
estimated 45 368 (95% CI 34 530 to 56 206) higher than expected number of deaths 
compared with pre-2010 trends. Deaths in those aged ≥60 and in care homes 
accounted for the majority. PES was more strongly linked with care home and home 
mortality than PEH, with each £10 per capita decline in real PES associated with 
an increase of 5.10 (3.65-6.54) (p<0.001) care home deaths per 100 000. These 
associations persisted in lag analyses and after adjustment for macroeconomic 
factors. Furthermore, we found that changes in real PES per capita may be linked 
to mortality mostly via changes in nurse numbers. Projections to 2020 based on 
2009-2014 trend was cumulatively linked to an estimated 152 141 (95% CI 134 597 
and 169 685) additional deaths.
CONCLUSIONS: Spending constraints, especially PES, are associated with a 
substantial mortality gap. We suggest that spending should be targeted on 
improving care delivered in care homes and at home; and maintaining or 
increasing nurse numbers.
