© 2017 Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine and John 
Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1753-0407.12612
PMID: 28976723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Rev Assoc Med Bras (1992). 2017 Jul;63(7):651-655. doi: 
10.1590/1806-9282.63.07.651.

Mild cognitive impairment and progression to dementia of Alzheimer's disease.

Steiner ABQ(1), Jacinto AF(2), Mayoral VFS(3), Brucki SMD(4), Citero VA(5).

Author information:
(1)MD, Psychiatrist, Psychogeriatrist, MSc Student, Psychiatry Department, 
Escola Paulista de Medicina (EPM), Universidade Federal de São Paulo (Unifesp), 
São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(2)MD, PhD, Geriatrist, Assistant Professor of Geriatrics, Department of 
Internal Medicine, Faculdade de Medicina de Botucatu (FMB), Universidade 
Estadual Paulista Júlio de Mesquita Filho (Unesp), Botucatu, SP, Brazil.
(3)MD, Geriatrist, MSc in Collective Health, FMB-Unesp, Botucatu, SP, Brazil.
(4)MD, Neurologist. MSc and PhD in Neurology, Unifesp. Post-Doctoral degree from 
Universidade de São Paulo (USP). Preceptor of the Neurology Residency Program at 
Hospital Santa Marcelina. Assisting Physician of the Grupo de Neurologia 
Cognitiva e do Comportamento e do Centro de Referência em Distúrbios Cognitivos 
(Ceredic), USP, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(5)MD, Psychiatrist, Associate Professor of the Psychiatry Department, 
EPM-Unifesp, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

The increase in life expectancy in the Brazilian population raises questions 
about the preparation of the public health system in identifying elderly 
patients with signs of cognitive impairment. Currently, as a consequence of the 
long duration of preclinical phase of Alzheimer's disease, efforts of early 
detection have been emphasized. Clinical dementia presents an important impact 
on the individual's caregivers, family, society and economy. Identifying 
individuals who already have some cognitive impairment, despite remaining 
functional, as well as analyzing associated comorbidities, constitutes an 
opportunity to analyze possibilities for future interventions. Dementias are 
clinical conditions that impose a burden on the health system with its high 
costs, whereas the identification of individuals with cognitive impairment 
without dementia can aid patients and their families to plan the future and 
mitigate costs. This narrative revision can provide general practitioners with 
more information on the subject.

DOI: 10.1590/1806-9282.63.07.651
PMID: 28977092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Rev Bras Ter Intensiva. 2017 Jul-Sep;29(3):271-278. doi: 
10.5935/0103-507X.20170048. Epub 2017 Sep 28.

Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in acute respiratory distress syndrome due 
to influenza A (H1N1)pdm09 pneumonia. A single-center experience during the 
2013-2014 season.

Menon N(1), Perez-Velez CM(2), Wheeler JA(3), Morris MF(4), Amabile OL(3), 
Tasset MR(3), Raschke RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Medicine, 
Banner - University Medical Center Phoenix - Arizona, United States.
(2)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Banner - University 
Medical Center Phoenix - Arizona, United States.
(3)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Banner - 
University Medical Center Phoenix - Arizona, United States.
(4)Division of Thoracic Radiology, Department of Radiology, Banner - University 
Medical Center Phoenix - Arizona, United States.

OBJECTIVE: This report aimed to describe the outcomes of the patients with 
severe H1N1 associated acute respiratory distress syndrome who were treated with 
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation therapy.
METHODS: This retrospective review analyzed a single-center cohort of adult 
patients with H1N1-related acute respiratory distress syndrome who were managed 
with veno-venous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation during the winter of 
2013/2014.
RESULTS: A total of 10 patients received veno-venous extracorporeal membrane 
oxygenation for H1N1 influenza between January 2013 and March 2014. Seven 
patients were transferred to our center for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation 
consideration (all within 72 hours of initiating mechanical ventilation). The 
median patient age was forty years, and 30% were female. The median arterial 
oxygen partial pressure to fraction of inspired oxygen ratio was 62.5, and the 
median RESP score was 6. Three patients received inhaled nitric oxide, and four 
patients were proned as rescue therapy before extracorporeal membrane 
oxygenation was initiated. The median duration of mechanical ventilation was 
twenty-two days (range, 14 - 32). The median length of stay in the intensive 
care unit was twenty-seven days (range, 14 - 39). The median hospital length of 
stay was 29.1 days (range, 16.0 - 46.9). Minor bleeding complications occurred 
in 6 of 10 patients. Eight of the ten patients survived to hospital discharge.
CONCLUSION: The survivors were relatively young and discharged with good 
functional status (i.e., enhancing quality-adjusted life-years-saved). Our 
experience shows that even a relatively new extracorporeal membrane oxygenation 
program can play an important role in that capacity and provide excellent 
outcomes for the sickest patients.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Descrever os desfechos de pacientes com síndrome do 
desconforto respiratório agudo associada à influenza subtipo H1N1 grave tratados 
com oxigenação por membrana extracorpórea.
MÉTODOS: Trata-se de revisão retrospectiva de uma coorte de pacientes oriunda de 
um único centro, constituída por adultos com síndrome do desconforto 
respiratório agudo relacionada com influenza subtipo H1N1 e tratados com 
oxigenação venovenosa por membrana extracorpórea durante a temporada de inverno 
no hemisfério norte de 2013/2014.
RESULTADOS: Dez pacientes receberam oxigenação venovenosa por membrana 
extracorpórea para tratamento de influenza subtipo H1N1 entre janeiro de 2013 e 
março de 2014. Sete deles foram transferidos para nosso centro visando à 
utilização de oxigenação por membrana extracorpórea dentro de um período de 72 
horas após o início da ventilação mecânica. A idade mediana foi de 40 anos, 
sendo 30% dos pacientes do sexo feminino. O valor mediano da proporção entre 
pressão parcial de oxigênio e fração inspirada de oxigênio foi de 62,5, sendo o 
escore RESP mediano de 6. Três pacientes receberam inalação de óxido nítrico e 
quatro utilizaram posição prona como tratamento de resgate antes de ser iniciada 
a oxigenação por membrana extracorpórea. A duração mediana da ventilação 
mecânica foi de 22 dias (variação de 14 - 32). O tempo mediano de permanência na 
unidade de terapia intensiva foi de 27 dias (variação de 14 - 39). O tempo 
mediano de permanência no hospital foi de 29,1 dias (variação de 16,0 - 46,9). 
Ocorreram complicações não importantes de sangramento em seis dos dez pacientes. 
Oito dos dez pacientes sobreviveram até a alta hospitalar.
CONCLUSÃO: Os sobreviventes eram relativamente jovens e tiveram alta com boas 
condições funcionais, o que salienta os anos de vida ajustados pela qualidade 
que foram salvos. Nossa experiência demonstra que mesmo um programa ainda 
relativamente novo de oxigenação por membrana extracorpórea pode desempenhar um 
papel importante, e proporcionar resultados excelentes para os pacientes mais 
graves.

OBJETIVO: Descrever os desfechos de pacientes com síndrome do desconforto 
respiratório agudo associada à influenza subtipo H1N1 grave tratados com 
oxigenação por membrana extracorpórea.
MÉTODOS: Trata-se de revisão retrospectiva de uma coorte de pacientes oriunda de 
um único centro, constituída por adultos com síndrome do desconforto 
respiratório agudo relacionada com influenza subtipo H1N1 e tratados com 
oxigenação venovenosa por membrana extracorpórea durante a temporada de inverno 
no hemisfério norte de 2013/2014.
RESULTADOS: Dez pacientes receberam oxigenação venovenosa por membrana 
extracorpórea para tratamento de influenza subtipo H1N1 entre janeiro de 2013 e 
março de 2014. Sete deles foram transferidos para nosso centro visando à 
utilização de oxigenação por membrana extracorpórea dentro de um período de 72 
horas após o início da ventilação mecânica. A idade mediana foi de 40 anos, 
sendo 30% dos pacientes do sexo feminino. O valor mediano da proporção entre 
pressão parcial de oxigênio e fração inspirada de oxigênio foi de 62,5, sendo o 
escore RESP mediano de 6. Três pacientes receberam inalação de óxido nítrico e 
quatro utilizaram posição prona como tratamento de resgate antes de ser iniciada 
a oxigenação por membrana extracorpórea. A duração mediana da ventilação 
mecânica foi de 22 dias (variação de 14 - 32). O tempo mediano de permanência na 
unidade de terapia intensiva foi de 27 dias (variação de 14 - 39). O tempo 
mediano de permanência no hospital foi de 29,1 dias (variação de 16,0 - 46,9). 
Ocorreram complicações não importantes de sangramento em seis dos dez pacientes. 
Oito dos dez pacientes sobreviveram até a alta hospitalar.
CONCLUSÃO: Os sobreviventes eram relativamente jovens e tiveram alta com boas 
condições funcionais, o que salienta os anos de vida ajustados pela qualidade 
que foram salvos. Nossa experiência demonstra que mesmo um programa ainda 
relativamente novo de oxigenação por membrana extracorpórea pode desempenhar um 
papel importante, e proporcionar resultados excelentes para os pacientes mais 
graves.

DOI: 10.5935/0103-507X.20170048
PMCID: PMC5632968
PMID: 28977101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: None.


428. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2018 May 9;73(6):828-834. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glx148.

FNIH-defined Sarcopenia Predicts Adverse Outcomes Among Community-Dwelling Older 
People in Taiwan: Results From I-Lan Longitudinal Aging Study.

Tang TC(1)(2), Hwang AC(1)(2)(3), Liu LK(1)(2), Lee WJ(2)(3)(4), Chen 
LY(1)(2)(3), Wu YH(1)(2), Huang CY(1)(2)(3), Hung CH(1)(2)(3), Wang CJ(1)(2)(5), 
Lin MH(1)(2), Peng LN(1)(2)(3), Chen LK(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, 
Taiwan.
(2)Aging and Health Research Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Institute of Public Health, National Yang Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Family Medicine, Taipei Veterans General Hospital Yuanshan 
Branch, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Medicine, Changhua Christian Hospital, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: To evaluate the predictive validity of sarcopenia defined by the 
Foundation for the National Institutes of Health (FNIH) Sarcopenia Project among 
Asian older adults.
METHODS: Data of the I-Lan Longitudinal Aging Study were obtained for analysis. 
Overall, 1,839 community-dwelling people aged 50 years and older, capable of 
completing a 6-m walk, with life expectancy of more than 6 months, and not 
institutionalized at time of data collection were enrolled for study. Data for 
subjects aged 65 years and older were obtained for study. The outcome measures 
were all-cause mortality and a composite adverse outcome which includes 
hospitalizations, emergency department visits, institutionalization, and falls.
RESULTS: Data of 728 eligible elderly participants (73.4 ± 5.4 years; 52.9% 
males) were analyzed. The prevalence of FNIH-diagnosed sarcopenia was 9.5%: 
11.9% males; 6.7% females. Participants having FNIH-defined sarcopenia were 
considerably older, frailer, more obese, with poorer physical performance than 
nonsarcopenic subjects (All p < .001); during mean follow-up of 32.9 ± 8.8 
months, they also had 3.8 times higher risk of dying, independent of age, sex, 
multimorbidity, cognitive function, and nutritional status (hazard ratio = 3.8; 
95% confidence interval = 1.26-11.45; p = .018). Moreover, sarcopenia defined by 
grip strength-BMI ratio (WeakBMI) showed stronger association with composite 
adverse outcomes than traditional handgrip strength (hazard ratio = 1.99; 95% 
confidence interval = 1.01-3.93; p = .047 vs hazard ratio = 1.80; 95% confidence 
interval = 0.89-3.62; p = .102 in fully-adjusted model).
CONCLUSION: Among community-dwelling older people in Taiwan, participants with 
FNIH-defined sarcopenia had a significantly greater risk of all-cause mortality 
and composite falls, emergency department visits, institutionalization, and 
hospitalization.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glx148
PMID: 28977377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. BMJ. 2017 Oct 4;359:j4530. doi: 10.1136/bmj.j4530.

Availability of evidence of benefits on overall survival and quality of life of 
cancer drugs approved by European Medicines Agency: retrospective cohort study 
of drug approvals 2009-13.

Davis C(1), Naci H(2), Gurpinar E(2), Poplavska E(3), Pinto A(2), Aggarwal 
A(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health and Social Medicine, King's College London, 
London WC2R 2LS, UK courtney.davis@kcl.ac.uk.
(2)LSE Health, Department of Health Policy, London School of Economics and 
Political Science, London, UK.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy, Riga Stradins University, Riga, Latvia.
(4)Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(5)Institute of Cancer Policy, King's College London, London, UK.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2017 Oct 4;359:j4528.
    MMW Fortschr Med. 2017 Nov;159(19):44.
    Eur Urol. 2018 Apr;73(4):635-636.
    Nature. 2018 Apr;556(7700):151.

Objective To determine the availability of data on overall survival and quality 
of life benefits of cancer drugs approved in Europe.Design Retrospective cohort 
study.Setting Publicly accessible regulatory and scientific reports on cancer 
approvals by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) from 2009 to 2013.Main outcome 
measures Pivotal and postmarketing trials of cancer drugs according to their 
design features (randomisation, crossover, blinding), comparators, and 
endpoints. Availability and magnitude of benefit on overall survival or quality 
of life determined at time of approval and after market entry. Validated 
European Society for Medical Oncology Magnitude of Clinical Benefit Scale 
(ESMO-MCBS) used to assess the clinical value of the reported gains in published 
studies of cancer drugs.Results From 2009 to 2013, the EMA approved the use of 
48 cancer drugs for 68 indications. Of these, eight indications (12%) were 
approved on the basis of a single arm study. At the time of market approval, 
there was significant prolongation of survival in 24 of the 68 (35%). The 
magnitude of the benefit on overall survival ranged from 1.0 to 5.8 months 
(median 2.7 months). At the time of market approval, there was an improvement in 
quality of life in seven of 68 indications (10%). Out of 44 indications for 
which there was no evidence of a survival gain at the time of market 
authorisation, in the subsequent postmarketing period there was evidence for 
extension of life in three (7%) and reported benefit on quality of life in five 
(11%). Of the 68 cancer indications with EMA approval, and with a median of 5.4 
years' follow-up (minimum 3.3 years, maximum 8.1 years), only 35 (51%) had shown 
a significant improvement in survival or quality of life, while 33 (49%) 
remained uncertain. Of 23 indications associated with a survival benefit that 
could be scored with the ESMO-MCBS tool, the benefit was judged to be clinically 
meaningful in less than half (11/23, 48%).Conclusions This systematic evaluation 
of oncology approvals by the EMA in 2009-13 shows that most drugs entered the 
market without evidence of benefit on survival or quality of life. At a minimum 
of 3.3 years after market entry, there was still no conclusive evidence that 
these drugs either extended or improved life for most cancer indications. When 
there were survival gains over existing treatment options or placebo, they were 
often marginal.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.j4530
PMCID: PMC5627352
PMID: 28978555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the ICMJE uniform disclosure at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf and declare: 
EG, AP, and EP were supported by project funding from Health Action 
International; no financial relationships with any organisations that might have 
an interest in the submitted work in the previous three years; no other 
relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted 
work.


430. J Biol Chem. 2017 Nov 24;292(47):19290-19303. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M117.813972.
Epub  2017 Oct 4.

Reconstitution of the core of the malaria parasite glideosome with recombinant 
Plasmodium class XIV myosin A and Plasmodium actin.

Bookwalter CS(1), Tay CL(2), McCrorie R(2), Previs MJ(1), Lu H(1), Krementsova 
EB(1), Fagnant PM(1), Baum J(2), Trybus KM(3).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Molecular Physiology and Biophysics, University of 
Vermont, Burlington, Vermont 05405 and.
(2)the Department of Life Sciences, Imperial College London, South Kensington, 
London SW7 2AZ, United Kingdom.
(3)From the Department of Molecular Physiology and Biophysics, University of 
Vermont, Burlington, Vermont 05405 and kathleen.trybus@uvm.edu.

Motility of the apicomplexan malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum is enabled 
by a multiprotein glideosome complex, whose core is the class XIV myosin motor, 
PfMyoA, and a divergent Plasmodium actin (PfAct1). Parasite motility is 
necessary for host-cell invasion and virulence, but studying its molecular basis 
has been hampered by unavailability of sufficient amounts of PfMyoA. Here, we 
expressed milligram quantities of functional full-length PfMyoA with the 
baculovirus/Sf9 cell expression system, which required a UCS (UNC-45/CRO1/She4p) 
family myosin chaperone from Plasmodium spp. In addition to the known light 
chain myosin tail interacting protein (MTIP), we identified an essential light 
chain (PfELC) that co-purified with PfMyoA isolated from parasite lysates. The 
speed at which PfMyoA moved actin was fastest with both light chains bound, 
consistent with the light chain-binding domain acting as a lever arm to amplify 
nucleotide-dependent motions in the motor domain. Surprisingly, PfELC binding to 
the heavy chain required that MTIP also be bound to the heavy chain, unlike MTIP 
that bound the heavy chain independently of PfELC. Neither the presence of 
calcium nor deletion of the MTIP N-terminal extension changed the speed of actin 
movement. Of note, PfMyoA moved filaments formed from Sf9 cell-expressed PfAct1 
at the same speed as skeletal muscle actin. Duty ratio estimates suggested that 
as few as nine motors can power actin movement at maximal speed, a feature that 
may be necessitated by the dynamic nature of Plasmodium actin filaments in the 
parasite. In summary, we have reconstituted the essential core of the 
glideosome, enabling drug targeting of both of its core components to inhibit 
parasite invasion.

© 2017 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M117.813972
PMCID: PMC5702669
PMID: 28978649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest with the contents of this article


431. Rinsho Ketsueki. 2017;58(10):2074-2080. doi: 10.11406/rinketsu.58.2074.

[Future prospects of hemostatic treatment for hemophilia patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Nogami K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Nara Medical University.

In the treatment of hemophilia patients, factor (F) VIII or FIX product 
prophylaxis results in arthropathy prevention and quality of life (QOL) 
improvement. Serious issues concerning hemostatic treatment of hemophilia 
include frequent intravenous administration of products, inhibitor development, 
and hemostatic treatment of patients with inhibitors. To overcome these 
challenges, products with extended half-life were developed. Furthermore, 
alternative products based on new concepts of hemostatic therapy were developed. 
Regarding ACE910, a bispecific antibody recognizing FIX and FX, a clinical 
extension 1/2 study in Japan and an international phase 3 study are ongoing. 
Phase 1 results demonstrated that there were few severe ACE910-related adverse 
events. The t1/2 was approximately 30 days, and bleeding events were 
significantly reduced upon weekly subcutaneous administration in severe 
hemophilia A patients, independent of inhibitors. Two therapies, namely si-RNA 
anti-antithrombin therapy and anti-TFPI antibody therapy, aimed at rebalancing 
coagulation, are also under development. In addition, a gene therapy for 
hemophilia B has been developed by improving the vector. These new therapies 
could further improve the QOL of hemophilia patients.

DOI: 10.11406/rinketsu.58.2074
PMID: 28978851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Sci Rep. 2017 Oct 4;7(1):12662. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-12661-4.

Sex-Dependent Effects of Caloric Restriction on the Ageing of an Ambush Feeding 
Copepod.

Saiz E(1), Calbet A(2), Griffell K(2).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Ciències del Mar - CSIC, Pg. Marítim de la Barceloneta 37-49, 
08003, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. enric@icm.csic.es.
(2)Institut de Ciències del Mar - CSIC, Pg. Marítim de la Barceloneta 37-49, 
08003, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.

Erratum in
    Sci Rep. 2017 Nov 22;7(1):16392.

Planktonic copepods are a very successful group in marine pelagic environments, 
with a key role in biogeochemical cycles. Among them, the genus Oithona is one 
of the more abundant and ubiquitous. We report here on the effects of caloric 
(food) restriction on the ageing patterns of the copepod Oithona davisae. The 
response of O. davisae to caloric restriction was sex dependent: under food 
limitation, females have lower age-specific mortality rates and longer lifespans 
and reproductive periods; male mortality rates and life expectancy were not 
affected. Males are more active swimmers than females, and given their higher 
energetic demands presumably generate reactive oxygen species at higher rates. 
That was confirmed by starvation experiments, which showed that O. davisae males 
burn through body reserves much faster, resulting in shorter life expectancy. 
Compared with common, coastal calanoid copepods, the effects of caloric 
restriction on O. davisae appeared less prominent. We think this difference in 
the magnitude of the responses is a consequence of the distinct life-history 
traits associated with the genus Oithona (ambush feeder, egg-carrier), with much 
lower overall levels of metabolism and reproductive effort.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-12661-4
PMCID: PMC5627296
PMID: 28978933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


433. Front Psychol. 2017 Sep 20;8:1628. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2017.01628.
eCollection  2017.

Expertise Affects Inter-Observer Agreement at Peripheral Locations within a 
Brain Tumor.

Crowe EM(1), Alderson W(2), Rossiter J(2), Kent C(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Experimental Psychology, University of BristolBristol, United 
Kingdom.
(2)Department of Engineering Mathematics, University of BristolBristol, United 
Kingdom.

Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a crucial tool for clinical brain tumor 
detection and delineation. Since the process of gross tumor volume delineation 
resides with clinicians, a better understanding of how they perform this task is 
required if improvements in life expectancy are to be made. Novice-expert 
comparison studies have been used to examine the effect of expertise on 
abnormality detection, but little research has investigated expertise-related 
differences in brain tumor delineation. In this study, undergraduate students 
(novices) and radiologists (experts) inspected a combination of T1 and T2 single 
and whole brain MRI scans, each containing a tumor. Using a tablet and stylus to 
provide an interactive environment, participants had an unlimited amount of time 
to scroll freely through the MRI slices and were instructed to delineate (i.e., 
draw a boundary) around any tumorous tissue. There was no reliable evidence for 
a difference in the gross tumor volume or total number of slices delineated 
between experts and novices. Agreement was low across both expertise groups and 
significantly lower at peripheral locations within a tumor than central 
locations. There was an interaction between expertise level and location within 
a tumor with experts displaying higher agreement at the peripheral slices than 
novices. An effect of brain image set on the order in which participants 
inspected the slices was also observed. The implications of these results for 
the training undertaken by early career radiologists and current practices in 
hospitals are discussed.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2017.01628
PMCID: PMC5611391
PMID: 28979229


434. Zh Nevrol Psikhiatr Im S S Korsakova. 2017;117(6. Vyp. 2):70-72. doi: 
10.17116/jnevro20171176270-72.

[An analysis of causes of death in patients with Parkinson's disease].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Amosova NA(1), Smolentseva IG(2), Маslyuk ОА(2), Pavlov YV(2), Gavrilov EL(2).

Author information:
(1)Central State Medical Academy of Medical Center of General Management 
Department of Presidental Administration of the Russian Federation, Moscow, 
Russia.
(2)Central Clinical Hospital with polyclinic of Medical Center the 
Administrative Department of the President of the Russian Federation, Moscow, 
Russia.

AIM: To determine population mortality rate and reasons of death in Parkinson's 
disease (PD).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: To analyze reasons of death, medical death certificates 
and postmortem records as well as official results of the Federal state 
statistics service were used. According to the register of Parkinson's disease 
(PD) patients during 2009-2012, the total mortality was 9.9%. The average age of 
patients died from the disease was 74.3 ± 2.4 years. The main reasons of death 
were PD (36.2%), circulatory illnesses (27.6%), respiratory diseases (12.1%), 
malignant neoplastic diseases (12.1%), other reasons (12.0%). Direct reasons of 
death in patients with PD were the complications of underlying disease in 
connection with the development of immobility and comorbidities. Timely 
correction of complications and comorbidities is a main strategy to extend life 
expectancy in patients with PD.

Publisher: Цель исследования. Уточнение популяционных показателей смертности и 
причин смерти при болезни Паркинсона (БП). Материал и методы. Для анализа причин 
смерти были использованы медицинское свидетельство о смерти и посмертный 
эпикриз, а также официальные данные Федеральной службы Государственной 
статистики. Результаты и заключение. В течение 2009-2012 гг. в регистре больных 
БП смертность составила 9,9% от общего числа зарегистрированных пациентов. 
Средний возраст умерших больных - 74,3±2,4 года. Основными причинами смерти у 
36,2% больных были БП, у 27,6% - болезни системы кровообращения, у 12,1% - 
болезни органов дыхания, у 12,1% - злокачественные новообразования, у 12,0% - 
другие причины. Непосредственными причинами смерти у больных БП стали осложнения 
основного заболевания, связанные с обездвиженностью, и сопутствующие 
заболевания. Своевременная коррекция осложнений БП и сопутствующих заболеваний 
является основной стратегией по увеличению продолжительности жизни таких 
больных.

DOI: 10.17116/jnevro20171176270-72
PMID: 28980616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Rev Med Brux. 2017;38(4):363-365.

[Lipid-lowering therapy in the elderly].

[Article in French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]

Schils E(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Gériatrie du C.H.U. Tivoli, La Louvière.

During the last decade, life expectancy increased in western countries. Among 
the elderly, cardiovascular diseases are still the leading cause of death. In 
both genders, cardiovascular risk increases with age. The statistical 
correlation between total cholesterol level and mortality is less substantial 
with age, yet it still exists. Clinical studies have shown the clinical benefit 
of statin therapy, both in terms of cardio-vascular events and survival in the 
elderly population. The use of statins in elderly patients can currently be 
recommended for secondary prevention. In primary prevention, there are less 
available evidences of effectiveness, statin therapy can be conside-red 
according to the other risk factors and the life expectancy of the patients.

Publisher: Dans la dernière décennie, l’espérance de vie a augmenté dans les 
pays occidentaux. Les maladies cardiovasculaires sont encore la première cause 
de mortalité chez les sujets âgés. Le risque cardiovasculaire augmente avec 
l’âge pour les deux sexes. Le lien statistique entre la cholestérolémie totale 
et la mortalité existe encore avec l’âge même si il est moins marqué. Les études 
cliniques ont montré un bénéfice clinique du traitement par statines en termes 
d’événements cardiovasculaires et de survie dans la population âgée. En 
prévention secondaire, on peut actuellement recom-mander l’usage des statines 
chez les sujets âgés. En prévention primaire, il y a moins d’éléments de preuve 
d’efficacité ; le traitement par statines peut se concevoir en fonction des 
autres facteurs de risque et de l’espérance de vie du patient considéré.

PMID: 28981241


436. Int J Mol Sci. 2017 Oct 5;18(10):2098. doi: 10.3390/ijms18102098.

Reductive Stress in Inflammation-Associated Diseases and the Pro-Oxidant Effect 
of Antioxidant Agents.

Pérez-Torres I(1), Guarner-Lans V(2), Rubio-Ruiz ME(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Instituto Nacional de Cardiología "Ignacio Chávez", 
Juan Badiano 1, Sección XVI, Tlalpan, Mexico City 14080, Mexico. 
Israel.perez@cardiologia.org.mx.
(2)Department of Physiology, Instituto Nacional de Cardiología "Ignacio Chávez", 
Juan Badiano 1, Sección XVI, Tlalpan, Mexico City 14080, Mexico. 
veronica.guarner@cardiologia.org.mx.
(3)Department of Physiology, Instituto Nacional de Cardiología "Ignacio Chávez", 
Juan Badiano 1, Sección XVI, Tlalpan, Mexico City 14080, Mexico. 
esther.rubio@cardiologia.org.mx.

Abstract: Reductive stress (RS) is the counterpart oxidative stress (OS), and 
can occur in response to conditions that shift the redox balance of important 
biological redox couples, such as the NAD⁺/NADH, NADP⁺/NADPH, and GSH/GSSG, to a 
more reducing state. Overexpression of antioxidant enzymatic systems leads to 
excess reducing equivalents that can deplete reactive oxidative species, driving 
the cells to RS. A feedback regulation is established in which chronic RS 
induces OS, which in turn, stimulates again RS. Excess reducing equivalents may 
regulate cellular signaling pathways, modify transcriptional activity, induce 
alterations in the formation of disulfide bonds in proteins, reduce 
mitochondrial function, decrease cellular metabolism, and thus, contribute to 
the development of some diseases in which NF-κB, a redox-sensitive transcription 
factor, participates. Here, we described the diseases in which an inflammatory 
condition is associated to RS, and where delayed folding, disordered transport, 
failed oxidation, and aggregation are found. Some of these diseases are 
aggregation protein cardiomyopathy, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, muscular 
dystrophy, pulmonary hypertension, rheumatoid arthritis, Alzheimer's disease, 
and metabolic syndrome, among others. Moreover, chronic consumption of 
antioxidant supplements, such as vitamins and/or flavonoids, may have 
pro-oxidant effects that may alter the redox cellular equilibrium and contribute 
to RS, even diminishing life expectancy.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms18102098
PMCID: PMC5666780
PMID: 28981461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


437. N Z Med J. 2017 Oct 6;130(1463):7-10.

Seven things you need to know about men's health.

Baxter GD(1), Mabire L(2), Liu L(3), Connolly MJ(4), Theodore R(5), Brunson 
J(6), Nicholson H(7).

Author information:
(1)Professor, Centre for Health, Activity and Rehabilitation Research, School of 
Physiotherapy, University of Otago, Dunedin; Director-National Science Challenge 
Aging Well; Director-New Zealand Centre for Men's Health.
(2)Physiotherapist, Department of Physiotherapy, Southern District Health Board, 
Dunedin.
(3)Assistant Research Fellow, Centre for Health, Activity and Rehabilitation 
Research, School of Physiotherapy, University of Otago, Dunedin.
(4)Freemasons' Professor of Geriatric Medicine, University of Auckland and 
Geriatrician, Waitemata District Health Board, Auckland.
(5)Co-Director of the National Centre for Lifecourse Research (NCLR), National 
Centre for Lifecourse Research, Department of Psychology, University of Otago, 
Dunedin.
(6)Academic Executive Officer, Academic Divisional Office, University of Otago, 
Dunedin.
(7)Deputy Vice-Chancellor (External Engagement), Professor, Department of 
Anatomy, School of Biomedical Sciences, University of Otago, Dunedin.

PMID: 28981489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Nil.


438. Pediatr Allergy Immunol. 2017 Dec;28(8):810-817. doi: 10.1111/pai.12810.
Epub  2017 Nov 22.

Conditional reprogramming of pediatric airway epithelial cells: A new human 
model to investigate early-life respiratory disorders.

Wolf S(1)(2)(3), Perez GF(1)(2)(3), Mukharesh L(1)(2)(3), Isaza N(1)(2)(4), 
Preciado D(1)(2)(5), Freishtat RJ(1)(2)(6), Pillai D(1)(2)(3), Rose MC(1)(2)(3), 
Nino G(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Center for Genetic Research Medicine, Children's National Medical Center, 
Washington, DC, USA.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, George Washington University School of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, Washington, DC, USA.
(3)Division of Pulmonary and Sleep Medicine, Children's National Medical Center, 
Washington, DC, USA.
(4)Division of Neonatology, Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC, 
USA.
(5)Division of Pediatric Otorhinolaryngology, Children's National Medical 
Center, Washington, DC, USA.
(6)Division of Emergency Medicine, Children's National Medical Center, 
Washington, DC, USA.

BACKGROUND: Airway epithelial cells (AEC) are quite difficult to access in 
newborns and infants. It is critically important to develop robust life-extended 
models to conduct translational studies in this age group. We propose the use of 
a recently described cell culture technology (conditionally reprogrammed 
cells-CRC) to generate continuous primary cell cultures from nasal and bronchial 
AEC of young children.
METHODS: We collected nasal and/or bronchial AEC from a total of 23 subjects of 
different ages including newborns/infants/toddlers (0-2 years; N = 9), 
school-age children (4-11 years; N = 6), and a group of adolescent/adult donors 
(N = 8). For CRC generation, we used conditioned medium from mitotically 
inactivated 3T3 fibroblasts and Rho-associated kinase (ROCK) inhibitor 
(Y-27632). Antiviral immune responses were studied using 25 key antiviral genes 
and protein production of type III epithelial interferon (IFN λ1) after 
double-stranded (ds) RNA exposure.
RESULTS: CRC derived from primary AEC of neonates/infants and young children 
exhibited: (i) augmented proliferative capacity and life extension, (ii) 
preserved airway epithelial phenotype after multiple passages, (iii) robust 
immune responses characterized by the expression of innate antiviral genes and 
parallel nasal/bronchial production of IFN λ1 after exposure to dsRNA, and (iv) 
induction of airway epithelial inflammatory and remodeling responses to dsRNA 
(eg, CXCL8 and MMP9).
CONCLUSION: Conditional reprogramming of AEC from young children is a feasible 
and powerful translational approach to investigate early-life airway epithelial 
immune responses in humans.

© 2017 EAACI and John Wiley and Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley and Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/pai.12810
PMCID: PMC5868353
PMID: 28981980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Prenat Diagn. 2017 Dec;37(12):1181-1190. doi: 10.1002/pd.5164. Epub 2017 Nov
21.

Roadmap for an early gene therapy for cystic fibrosis airway disease.

Carlon MS(1), Vidović D(1)(2), Birket S(3).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Virology and Gene Therapy, Department of Pharmaceutical and 
Pharmacological Sciences, KU Leuven, Flanders, Belgium.
(2)Current affiliation: Cellular Protein Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Utrecht 
University, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, 
USA.

Erratum in
    Prenat Diagn. 2018 Nov;38(12):979.

Gene therapy provides a mutation-independent approach to treat or even cure CF 
airway disease. To develop a clinical candidate for CF gene therapy, a thorough 
examination of preclinical efficacy in relevant cell and animal models is a 
prerequisite. For a long time, the CF field was struggling with a lack of 
appropriate animal models for CF airway pathology. Since 2008, many different 
and complementary animal models have been generated that develop hallmarks of CF 
airway disease, including the CF pig, ferret, and rat. With this, a new era has 
arisen that allows investigating the efficacy of gene therapy beyond molecular 
and electrophysiological end-points. Successful gene therapy most likely 
requires an appropriate time window. CF lung pathology progresses with age and 
therefore an early treatment would be beneficial to prevent irreversible damage. 
In that regard, newborn screening programs and prenatal diagnosis already 
provide a basis to facilitate future preventive gene-based treatment. If 
successful, gene therapy for CF airway disease would markedly reduce the 
treatment burden and improve life quality and life expectancy of CF patients.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pd.5164
PMID: 28981983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. ANZ J Surg. 2018 Jun;88(6):E507-E511. doi: 10.1111/ans.14194. Epub 2017 Oct
5.

Cost-effective imaging for resectability of liver lesions in colorectal cancer: 
an economic decision model.

Saing S(1), Haywood P(1), Duncan JK(2), Ma N(2), Cameron AL(2), Goodall S(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics Research and Evaluation, University of Technology 
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(2)Australian Safety and Efficacy Register of New Interventional Procedures - 
Surgical (ASERNIP-S), Royal Australasian College of Surgeons, Adelaide, South 
Australia, Australia.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to determine the cost-effectiveness of 
contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (CE-MRI) compared with multiphase 
CE computed tomography (CE-CT) scan to characterize suspected liver lesions in 
patients with known colorectal carcinoma.
METHODS: A decision analytic model linking diagnostic accuracy to health 
outcomes in patients with colorectal carcinoma was constructed. The model 
assumed that CE-MRI has superior sensitivity and equivalent specificity to 
CE-CT, and patients with a colorectal liver metastasis could be eligible for 
curative surgery or chemotherapy and palliation. Delayed diagnosis or 
misdiagnosis was associated with worse health outcomes (disutility). 
Cost-effectiveness was calculated as the incremental cost relative to the 
incremental benefit, the benefit was estimated using quality-adjusted life 
years. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to test the robustness of the 
results.
RESULTS: The clinical evidence supports increased sensitivity of CE-MRI compared 
with CE-CT (0.943 versus 0.768). CE-MRI was more effective and more costly than 
CE-CT. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was estimated to be $40 548 per 
quality-adjusted life year gained. The model is most sensitive to the cost of 
MRI, cost of palliative treatment and the disutility associated with delayed 
palliative care. The results were also sensitive to the assumptions made about 
the clinical algorithm.
CONCLUSION: The results provide evidence of the potential cost-effectiveness 
associated with CE-MRI for the diagnosis of liver metastases in patients with 
identified colorectal carcinoma. CE-MRI can be recommended as cost-effective 
provided it replaces CE-CT and that improved diagnostic accuracy results in 
earlier, curative, disease management.

© 2017 Royal Australasian College of Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ans.14194
PMID: 28982209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Rejuvenation Res. 2018 Aug;21(4):323-332. doi: 10.1089/rej.2017.1982. Epub
2017  Nov 27.

Use of Medaka Fish as Vertebrate Model to Study the Effect of Cocoa Polyphenols 
in the Resistance to Oxidative Stress and Life Span Extension.

Sánchez-Sánchez AV(1), Leal-Tassias A(2), Rodríguez-Sánchez N(3), Piquer-Gil 
M(4), Martorell P(5), Genovés S(5), Acosta C(6), Burks D(2)(6), Ramón D(5), 
Mullor JL(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)1 Research Department, Bionos Biotech, SL , Valencia, Spain .
(2)2 Regenerative Medicine Department, Centro de Investigación Príncipe Felipe , 
Valencia, Spain .
(3)3 School of Pharmacy and Chemistry, Liverpool John Moores University , 
Liverpool, England.
(4)4 Department of Experimental Cardiology, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria 
Hospital La Fe , Valencia, Spain .
(5)5 Biópolis SL, Parc Científic Universitat de València , Valencia, Spain .
(6)6 CIBER de Diabetes y Enfermedades Metabolicas, Instituto de Salud Carlos III 
, Madrid, Spain .

Oxidative stress (OS) can induce cell apoptosis and thus plays an important role 
in aging. Antioxidant foods protect tissues from OS and contribute to a 
healthier lifestyle. In this study, we described the used of medaka embryos 
(Oryzias latipes) to study the putative antioxidant capacity of dietary cocoa 
extract in vertebrates. A polyphenol-enriched cocoa extract regulated the 
expression of several genes implicated in OS, thereby protecting fish embryos 
from induced OS. The cocoa extract activated superoxide dismutase enzyme 
activity in embryos and adult fish tissues, suggesting a common mechanism for 
protection during embryonic development and adulthood. Furthermore, long-term 
feeding of the cocoa extract increased fish life span. Our study demonstrates 
that the polyphenol-enriched cocoa extract decreases OS and extends life span in 
medaka fish, validating the use of medaka embryos as an economical platform to 
screen the antioxidant capacity of food compounds.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2017.1982
PMID: 28982278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2017 Oct 10;70(15):1833-1842. doi: 
10.1016/j.jacc.2017.08.027.

The Importance of Breakfast in Atherosclerosis Disease: Insights From the PESA 
Study.

Uzhova I(1), Fuster V(2), Fernández-Ortiz A(3), Ordovás JM(4), Sanz J(5), 
Fernández-Friera L(6), López-Melgar B(7), Mendiguren JM(8), Ibáñez B(9), Bueno 
H(10), Peñalvo JL(11).

Author information:
(1)Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Cardiovasculares Carlos III, Madrid, 
Spain.
(2)Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Cardiovasculares Carlos III, Madrid, 
Spain; Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York. Electronic 
address: vfuster@cnic.es.
(3)Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Cardiovasculares Carlos III, Madrid, 
Spain; CIBER de Enfermedades CardioVasculares, Madrid, Spain; Universidad 
Complutense, Madrid, Spain; Cardiovascular Institute, IDISSC, Hospital Clínico 
San Carlos, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Cardiovasculares Carlos III, Madrid, 
Spain; U.S. Department of Agriculture Human Nutrition Research Center on Aging, 
Tufts University, Boston, Massachusetts; IMDEA Food Institute, CEI UAM + CSIC, 
Madrid, Spain.
(5)Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Cardiovasculares Carlos III, Madrid, 
Spain; Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York.
(6)Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Cardiovasculares Carlos III, Madrid, 
Spain; CIBER de Enfermedades CardioVasculares, Madrid, Spain; HM 
Hospitales-Centro Integral de Enfermedades Cardiovasculares, Madrid, Spain.
(7)Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Cardiovasculares Carlos III, Madrid, 
Spain; HM Hospitales-Centro Integral de Enfermedades Cardiovasculares, Madrid, 
Spain.
(8)Banco de Santander, Madrid, Spain.
(9)Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Cardiovasculares Carlos III, Madrid, 
Spain; CIBER de Enfermedades CardioVasculares, Madrid, Spain; IIS-Fundación 
Jiménez Díaz Hospital, Universidad Autónoma, Madrid, Spain.
(10)Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Cardiovasculares Carlos III, Madrid, 
Spain; Universidad Complutense, Madrid, Spain; i+12 Research Institute and 
Cardiology Department, Hospital 12 de Octubre, Madrid, Spain.
(11)Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy, Tufts University, Boston, 
Massachusetts. Electronic address: jose.penalvo@tufts.edu.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2017 Oct 10;70(15):1843-1845.
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2018 Feb 13;71(6):707-708.
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2018 Feb 13;71(6):707.
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2018 Feb 13;71(6):708-709.

BACKGROUND: Daily habits, including the number and quality of eating occasions, 
are potential targets for primary prevention strategies with large health 
impacts. Skipping breakfast is considered a frequent and unhealthy habit 
associated with an increased cardiovascular (CV) risk.
OBJECTIVES: The study sought to explore the association between different 
breakfast patterns and CV risk factors and the presence, distribution, and 
extension of subclinical atherosclerosis.
METHODS: Cross-sectional analysis was performed within the PESA (Progression of 
Early Subclinical Atherosclerosis) study, a prospective cohort of asymptomatic 
(free of CV events at baseline) adults 40 to 54 years of age. Lifestyle and 
multivascular imaging data along with clinical covariates were collected from 
4,052 participants. Multivariate logistic regression models were used in the 
analysis.
RESULTS: Three patterns of breakfast consumption were studied: high-energy 
breakfast, when contributing to >20% of total daily energy intake (27% of the 
population); low-energy breakfast, when contributing between 5% and 20% of total 
daily energy intake (70% of the population); and skipping breakfast, when 
consuming <5% of total daily energy (3% of the population). Independent of the 
presence of traditional and dietary CV risk factors, and compared with 
high-energy breakfast, habitual skipping breakfast was associated with a higher 
prevalence of noncoronary (odds ratio: 1.55; 95% confidence interval: 0.97 to 
2.46) and generalized (odds ratio: 2.57; 95% confidence interval: 1.54 to 4.31) 
atherosclerosis.
CONCLUSION: Skipping breakfast is associated with an increased odds of prevalent 
noncoronary and generalized atherosclerosis independently of the presence of 
conventional CV risk factors. (Progression of Early Subclinical Atherosclerosis 
[PESA]; NCT01410318).

Copyright © 2017 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2017.08.027
PMID: 28982495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. BMJ Open. 2017 Oct 5;7(10):e016348. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-016348.

Return-to-work intervention versus usual care for sick-listed employees: 
health-economic investment appraisal alongside a cluster randomised trial.

Lokman S(1), Volker D(2), Zijlstra-Vlasveld MC(1), Brouwers EP(3), Boon B(4), 
Beekman AT(5)(6), Smit F(1)(5)(7), Van der Feltz-Cornelis CM(3)(8).

Author information:
(1)Public Mental Health, Trimbos Institute, Utrecht, Netherlands.
(2)Innovation of Care, Trimbos Institute, Utrecht, Netherlands.
(3)Tranzo, Tilburg University Tilburg School of Social and Behavioral Sciences, 
Tilburg, Noord-Brabant, Netherlands.
(4)Center of Innovation, Trimbos Institute, Utrecht, Netherlands.
(5)EMGO Institute for Health and Care Research, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, VU University Medical Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam, 
Netherlands.
(7)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, VU University Medical Centre, 
Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(8)Clinical Centre of Excellence for Body, Mind and Health, GGZ Breburg, 
Tilburg, Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the health-economic costs and benefits of a guided 
eHealth intervention (E-health module embedded in Collaborative Occupational 
healthcare (ECO)) encouraging sick-listed employees to a faster return to work.
DESIGN: A two-armed cluster randomised trial with occupational physicians (OPs) 
(n=62), clustered and randomised by region into an experimental and a control 
group, to conduct a health-economic investment appraisal. Online self-reported 
data were collected from employees at baseline, after 3, 6, 9 and 12 months.
SETTING: Occupational health care in the Netherlands.
PARTICIPANTS: Employees from small-sized and medium-sized companies (≥18 years), 
sick-listed between 4 and 26 weeks with (symptoms of) common mental disorders 
visiting their OP.
INTERVENTIONS: In the intervention group, employees (N=131) received an eHealth 
module aimed at changing cognitions regarding return to work, while OPs were 
supported by a decision aid for treatment and referral options. Employees in the 
control condition (N=89) received usual sickness guidance.
OUTCOMES MEASURES: Net benefits and return on investment based on absenteeism, 
presenteeism, health care use and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained.
RESULTS: From the employer's perspective, the incremental net benefits were 
€3187 per employee over a single year, representing a return of investment of 
€11 per invested Euro, with a break-even point at 6 months. The economic case 
was also favourable from the employee's perspective, partly because of QALY 
health gains. The intervention was costing €234 per employee from a health 
service financier's perspective. The incremental net benefits from a social 
perspective were €4210. This amount dropped to €3559 in the sensitivity analysis 
trimming the 5% highest costs.
CONCLUSIONS: The data suggest that the ECO intervention offers good value for 
money for virtually all stakeholders involved, because initial investments were 
more than recouped within a single year. The sometimes wide 95% CIs suggest that 
the costs and benefits are not always very precise estimates and real benefits 
could vary considerably.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NTR2108; Results.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2017. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-016348
PMCID: PMC5640022
PMID: 28982815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: SL, DV, MZV, BB, FS report 
personal fees from employment at the Trimbos Institute, the Netherlands 
Institute of Mental Health and Addiction, a not-for-profit organisation. CFC has 
received research grants from Eli Lilly outside the submitted work.


444. J Midlife Health. 2017 Jul-Sep;8(3):148-150. doi: 10.4103/jmh.JMH_60_17.

Extensively Metastasizing Leiomyosarcoma: A Diagnostic Challenge.

Ahuja A(1), Agarwal P(1), Sardana R(1), Bhaskar S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Dr. RML Hospital, PGIMER, New Delhi, India.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Dr. RML Hospital, PGIMER, New Delhi, India.

Uterine leiomyosarcoma (ULMS) is a rare malignancy of the female genital tract 
and carries an extremely poor 5-year survival rate. It is known to metastasize 
early and to distant sites owing to a high propensity for hematogeneous spread. 
Lung, peritoneum, liver, and bone are relatively common sites of metastasis. 
Patient age, tumor size, FIGO stage, and grade of the tumor are important 
criteria for predicting metastasis. The incidence of ULMS is increasing, 
probably due to the use of improved imaging techniques and as a result of cancer 
patients' prolonged life expectancy. An early well thought diagnosis is only 
made possible if even in otherwise seemingly unsuspected cases, the 
histopathology slides are extensively screened and the treating clinician is 
alerted timely. We hereby report a case of an elderly female who underwent 
hysterectomy for resection of multiple fibroids in the uterus and later 
presented with distant metastasis to brain with the erosion of overlying skull 
bone, chest wall, and lungs. Microscopic features along with an extensive 
immunohistochemistry panel were used to ascertain tumor origin.

DOI: 10.4103/jmh.JMH_60_17
PMCID: PMC5625581
PMID: 28983164

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


445. Rand Health Q. 2017 Jan 1;6(4):9. eCollection 2017 Jan.

Maternity Leave Policies: Trade-Offs Between Labour Market Demands and Health 
Benefits for Children.

Strang L, Broeks M.

Comment in
    For more information, see 
https://www.rand.org/pubs/research_reports/RR1734.html.

Over recent years many European Union countries have made changes to the design 
of the maternity leave provision. These policy developments reflect calls for 
greater gender equality in the workforce and more equal share of childcare 
responsibilities. However, while research shows that long period of leave can 
have negative effects on women's labour market attachment and career 
