
Author information:
(1)Warszawski Uniwersytet Medyczny / Medical University of Warsaw Zakład 
Rehabilitacji Oddziału Fizjoterapii II Wydziału Lekarskiego / Division of 
Rehabilitation, Department of Physiotherapy, 2nd, Medical Faculty.

The sensorimotor system is a complicated tool allowing for maintaining body 
balance and responding to changing environmental conditions to prevent injury. 
It is difficult to objectively assess the function of balance control mechanisms 
due to the multidimensional nature of the sensorimotor system and multitude of 
variables that may interfere with the measurement. The function of the 
sensorimotor system is considerably compromised in osteoarthritis, including 
gona-rthro-sis. The knee is the second most common location of osteoarthritis, 
after the hip, and total or partial replacement surgery of the knee joint 
represents the therapy of choice in advanced stages of the condition. As average 
life expectancy increases and state-of-the art medical technology develops, the 
number of total knee replacement surgeries is increasing dramatically and the 
re-education of the sensorimotor system is of fundamental impo-rtance for 
restoring function in the patients. This paper describes the current methods for 
objective assessment of proprioception, sensorimotor function and balance in the 
knee. The current literature is also reviewed to discuss the use of such 
examinations in pa-tients with gonarthrosis before and after knee replacement 
surgery.

DOI: 10.5604/01.3001.0010.5820
PMID: 29154233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Am J Community Psychol. 2017 Dec;60(3-4):568-583. doi: 10.1002/ajcp.12205.
Epub  2017 Nov 20.

Promotion of Civic Engagement with the Family Leadership Training Institute.

MacPhee D(1), Forlenza E(2), Christensen K(3), Prendergast S(4).

Author information:
(1)Human Development & Family Studies, Colorado School of Public Health, 
Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO, USA.
(2)Colorado Department of Health and Environment, Colorado State University, 
Fort Collins, CO, USA.
(3)Colorado State University Extension, Fort Collins, CO, USA.
(4)Human Development & Family Studies, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, 
CO, USA.

In this efficacy study, both quantitative and qualitative data were used to 
gauge the effects of the Family Leadership Training Institute (FLTI) on civic 
knowledge and empowerment, civic engagement, and community health. The sample of 
847 FLTI participants and 166 comparison adults completed pretest and posttest 
surveys. Medium to very large short-term effects were observed in civic 
literacy, empowerment, and engagement. Results mapping interviews were conducted 
with a stratified random sample of FLTI graduates (n = 52) to assess long-term 
(M = 2.73 years) program impact. Most FLTI graduates (86%) sustained meaningful, 
sometimes transformative, levels of civic engagement after program completion. 
This engagement involved multiple forms of leadership, most often advocacy, 
program implementation, and media campaigns; 63% of graduates directed at least 
some of their activities to marginalized populations. Content analyses of 
graduates' civic (capstone) projects and results mapping story maps indicated 
that 81-90% of community activities aligned with public health priorities. Thus, 
one promising means to promote community health is to empower families to 
develop leadership skills, become engaged in civic life, and forge connections 
with diverse constituents.

© Society for Community Research and Action 2017.

DOI: 10.1002/ajcp.12205
PMID: 29154444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. J Pers Soc Psychol. 2018 Nov;115(5):903-927. doi: 10.1037/pspp0000175. Epub
2017  Nov 20.

In the shadow of coal: How large-scale industries contributed to present-day 
regional differences in personality and well-being.

Obschonka M(1), Stuetzer M(2), Rentfrow PJ(3), Shaw-Taylor L(4), Satchell M(4), 
Silbereisen RK(5), Potter J(6), Gosling SD(7).

Author information:
(1)QUT Business School, Queensland University of Technology.
(2)Department of Business Administration, Baden-Württemberg Cooperative State 
University.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge.
(4)Cambridge Group for the History of Population and Social Structure, Faculty 
of History, University of Cambridge.
(5)Center for Applied Developmental Science (CADS), 
Friedrich-Schiller-University Jena.
(6)Atof Inc.
(7)Department of Psychology, University of Texas at Austin.

Recent research has identified regional variation of personality traits within 
countries but we know little about the underlying drivers of this variation. We 
propose that the Industrial Revolution, as a key era in the history of 
industrialized nations, has led to a persistent clustering of well-being 
outcomes and personality traits associated with psychological adversity via 
processes of selective migration and socialization. Analyzing data from England 
and Wales, we examine relationships between the historical employment share in 
large-scale coal-based industries (coal mining and steam-powered manufacturing 
industries that used this coal as fuel for their steam engines) and today's 
regional variation in personality and well-being. Even after controlling for 
possible historical confounds (historical energy supply, education, wealth, 
geology, climate, population density), we find that the historical local 
dominance of large-scale coal-based industries predicts today's markers of 
psychological adversity (lower Conscientiousness [and order facet scores], 
higher Neuroticism [and anxiety and depression facet scores], lower activity [an 
Extraversion facet], and lower life satisfaction and life expectancy). An 
instrumental variable analysis, using the historical location of coalfields, 
supports the causal assumption behind these effects (with the exception of life 
satisfaction). Further analyses focusing on mechanisms hint at the roles of 
selective migration and persisting economic hardship. Finally, a robustness 
check in the U.S. replicates the effect of the historical concentration of 
large-scale industries on today's levels of psychological adversity. Taken 
together, the results show how today's regional patterns of personality and 
well-being (which shape the future trajectories of these regions) may have their 
roots in major societal changes underway decades or centuries earlier. (PsycINFO 
Database Record (c) 2018 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/pspp0000175
PMID: 29154557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. J Exp Psychol Hum Percept Perform. 2018 Jun;44(6):856-870. doi: 
10.1037/xhp0000494. Epub 2017 Nov 20.

Time-based expectancy in temporally structured task switching.

Aufschnaiter S(1), Kiesel A(1), Dreisbach G(2), Wenke D(3), Thomaschke R(1).

Author information:
(1)Cognition, Action, and Sustainability Unit, Department of Psychology, Albert 
Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg.
(2)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Regensburg.
(3)Department of Psychology, PFH Private University of Applied Sciences 
Göttingen.

In many situations, people have to switch between different tasks. Previous 
research has shown that task switching leads to relatively slow responses and 
high error rates. In many real-life task-switching contexts, tasks are not 
randomly distributed over time, but the temporal distribution of tasks carries 
information. Often the delay before a task predicts to some degree which task it 
will be, like when a longer browser loading time for a website makes the search 
for an alternative more likely. The present study investigated whether and how 
humans adapt to such temporal regularities. In a series of five experiments, 
intertask delays predicted with different probabilities the task in the upcoming 
trial, or whether the task switches in the upcoming trial. Participants adapted 
their response behavior to the predictability of the task, for all tested 
degrees of predictability (70%, 80%, 90%), but only for the degree of 90% 
predictability when the task transition was temporally predictable. The 
adaptation was implicit and task repetitions as well as switches, both 
benefitted from this adaptation. Likewise, performance after 500 ms and 1,500 ms 
delays was facilitated by time-based predictability. The results are discussed 
in the context of previous findings on nontemporal task predictability. 
(PsycINFO Database Record

(c) 2018 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/xhp0000494
PMID: 29154625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Int J Infect Dis. 2018 Jan;66:56-64. doi: 10.1016/j.ijid.2017.11.010. Epub
2017  Nov 14.

Understanding mechanisms to promote successful aging in persons living with HIV.

Escota GV(1), O'Halloran JA(2), Powderly WG(2), Presti RM(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Washington University School of Medicine, 
Saint Louis, MO, USA. Electronic address: escotag@wustl.edu.
(2)Division of Infectious Diseases, Washington University School of Medicine, 
Saint Louis, MO, USA.

The mortality rate associated with HIV infection plummeted after the 
introduction of effective antiretroviral therapy pioneered two decades ago. As a 
result, HIV-infected people now have life expectancies comparable to that of 
HIV-uninfected individuals. Despite this, increased rates of osteoporosis, 
chronic liver disease, and in particular cardiovascular disease have been 
reported among people living with HIV infection. With the aging HIV-infected 
population, the burden of these comorbid illnesses may continue to accrue over 
time. In this paper, we present an overview of the aging HIV-infected 
population, its epidemiology and the many challenges faced. How to define and 
measure successful aging will also be reviewed. Finally, opportunities that may 
help mitigate the challenges identified and ensure successful aging among people 
living with HIV infection will be examined.

Copyright © 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijid.2017.11.010
PMID: 29154830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2018 Feb;66(2):229-234. doi: 10.1111/jgs.15216. Epub 2017
Nov  20.

Individualizing Prevention for Older Adults.

Lee SJ(1)(2), Kim CM(3).

Author information:
(1)San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center, University of California, San 
Francisco.
(2)Division of Geriatrics, University of California, San Francisco.
(3)Helen Diller Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California, San 
Francisco.

Prevention can help older adults avoid illness by identifying and addressing 
conditions before they cause symptoms, but prevention can also harm older adults 
if conditions that are unlikely to cause symptoms in the individual's lifetime 
are identified and treated. To identify older adults who preventive 
interventions are most likely to benefit (and most likely to harm), we propose a 
framework that compares an individual's life expectancy (LE) with the time to 
benefit (TTB) for an intervention. If LE is less than the TTB, the individual is 
unlikely to benefit but is exposed to the risks of the intervention, and the 
intervention should generally NOT be recommended. If LE is longer than the TTB, 
the individual could benefit, and the intervention should generally be 
recommended. If LE is similar to the TTB, the individual's values and 
preferences should be the major determinant of the decision. To facilitate the 
use of this framework in routine clinical care, we explored ways to estimate LE, 
identified the TTB for common preventive interventions, and developed strategies 
for communicating with individuals. We have synthesized these strategies and 
demonstrate how they can be used to individualize prevention for a hypothetical 
beneficiary in the setting of a Medicare annual wellness visit. Finally, we 
place prevention in the context of curative and symptom-oriented care and 
outline how prevention should be focused on healthier older adults, whereas 
symptom-oriented care should predominate in sicker older adults.

© 2017, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2017, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.15216
PMCID: PMC5809295
PMID: 29155445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: SJL and CMK have no 
conflicts of interests to disclose. Specifically, SJL and CMK have no financial, 
personal or potential conflicts.


924. CA Cancer J Clin. 2018 Jan;68(1):3-4. doi: 10.3322/caac.21414. Epub 2017 Nov
20.

Older adults may not consider life expectancy an important factor in cancer 
screening.

Chung C.

Comment on
    JAMA Intern Med. 2017 Aug 1;177(8):1121-1128.

DOI: 10.3322/caac.21414
PMID: 29155447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2017 Aug;66(4):1-64.

United States Life Tables, 2014.

Arias E, Heron M, Xu J.

Objectives-This report presents complete period life tables for the United 
States by race, Hispanic origin, and sex, based on age-specific death rates in 
2014. Methods-Data used to prepare the 2014 life tables are 2014 final mortality 
statistics; July 1, 2014 population estimates based on the 2010 decennial 
census; and 2014 Medicare data for persons aged 66-99. The methodology used to 
estimate the life tables for the Hispanic population remains unchanged from the 
methodology developed for the publication of life tables by Hispanic origin for 
data year 2006. The methodology used to estimate the 2014 life tables for all 
other groups was first implemented with data year 2008. Results-In 2014, the 
overall expectation of life at birth was 78.9 years, a 0.1-year increase from 
2013. Between 2013 and 2014, life expectancy at birth increased by 0.1 year for 
both males (76.4 to 76.5) and females (81.2 to 81.3) and for the black (75.5 to 
75.6) and white (79.0 to 79.1) populations. Life expectancy at birth increased 
by 0.2 years for the Hispanic (81.9 to 82.1) and non-Hispanic black (75.1 to 
75.3) populations. Life expectancy at birth remained unchanged for the 
non-Hispanic white population (78.8).

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 29155687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. J Vis Exp. 2017 Nov 1;(129):56150. doi: 10.3791/56150.

Methodology for Developing Life Tables for Sessile Insects in the Field Using 
the Whitefly, Bemisia tabaci, in Cotton As a Model System.

Naranjo SE(1), Ellsworth PC(2).

Author information:
(1)USDA-ARS, Arid-Land Agricultural Research Center; Steve.Naranjo@ars.usda.gov.
(2)Department of Entomology, Maricopa Agricultural Center, University of 
Arizona.

Life tables provide a means of measuring the schedules of birth and death from 
populations over time. They also can be used to quantify the sources and rates 
of mortality in populations, which has a variety of applications in ecology, 
including agricultural ecosystems. Horizontal, or cohort-based, life tables 
provide for the most direct and accurate method of quantifying vital population 
rates because they follow a group of individuals in a population from birth to 
death. Here, protocols are presented for conducting and analyzing cohort-based 
life tables in the field that takes advantage of the sessile nature of the 
immature life stages of a global insect pest, Bemisia tabaci. Individual insects 
are located on the underside of cotton leaves and are marked by drawing a small 
circle around the insect with a non-toxic pen. This insect can then be observed 
repeatedly over time with the aid of hand lenses to measure development from one 
stage to the next and to identify stage-specific causes of death associated with 
natural and introduced mortality forces. Analyses explain how to correctly 
measure multiple mortality forces that act contemporaneously within each stage 
and how to use such data to provide meaningful population dynamic metrics. The 
method does not directly account for adult survival and reproduction, which 
limits inference to dynamics of immature stages. An example is presented that 
focused on measuring the impact of bottom-up (plant quality) and top-down 
(natural enemies) effects on the mortality dynamics of B. tabaci in the cotton 
system.

DOI: 10.3791/56150
PMCID: PMC5755270
PMID: 29155758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Int J Surg Case Rep. 2017;41:370-372. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2017.11.002. Epub
 2017 Nov 6.

Use of negative pressure wound therapy after infection and flap dehiscence in 
radical vulvectomy: A case report.

Llueca A(1), Herraiz JL(2), Del Moral R(2), Piquer D(2), Maazouzi Y(2), Segarra 
B(2), Barres J(2), Serra A(2).

Author information:
(1)Multidisciplinary Unit for Abdominal Pelvic Oncology Surgery (MUAPOS), 
University General Hospital of Castellon, Spain, Dept. of Medicine, University 
Jaume I (UJI), Castellon de la Plana, Spain. Electronic address: 
antonillueca@gmail.com.
(2)Multidisciplinary Unit for Abdominal Pelvic Oncology Surgery (MUAPOS), 
University General Hospital of Castellon, Spain, Dept. of Medicine, University 
Jaume I (UJI), Castellon de la Plana, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: Vulvar cancer has a lower incidence in high income countries, but 
is rising, in part, due to the high life expectancy in these societies. Radical 
vulvectomy is still the standard treatment in initial stages. Wound dehiscence 
contitututes one of the most common postoperative complications.
PRESENTATION OF CASE: A 76year old patient with a squamous cell carcinoma of the 
vulva, FIGO staged, IIIb is presented. Radical vulvectomy and bilateral inguinal 
lymph node dissection with lotus petal flaps reconstruction are performed as the 
first treatment. Wound infection and dehiscence of lotus petal flaps was seen 
postoperatively. Initial management consisted in antibiotics administration and 
removing necrotic tissue from surgical wound. After this initial treatment, 
negative wound pressure therapy was applied for 37days with good results.
DISCUSSION: Wound dehiscence in radical vulvectomy remains the most frequent 
complication in the treatment of vulvar cancer. The treatment of this 
complications is still challenging for most gynecologic oncologist surgeons.
CONCLUSION: The utilization of the negative wound pressure therapy could 
contribute to reduce hospitalization and the direct and indirect costs of these 
complications.

Copyright © 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2017.11.002
PMCID: PMC5709344
PMID: 29156232


928. Sci Total Environ. 2018 Apr 1;619-620:606-620. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2017.10.335. Epub 2017 Nov 29.

The stocks and flows of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium across a 30-year time 
series for agriculture in Huantai county, China.

Bellarby J(1), Surridge BWJ(2), Haygarth PM(2), Liu K(3), Siciliano G(4), Smith 
L(4), Rahn C(5), Meng F(6).

Author information:
(1)College of Resources and Environmental Sciences, China Agricultural 
University, Beijing 100193, China; Lancaster Environment Centre, Lancaster 
University, Bailrigg, Lancaster LA1 4YQ, UK.
(2)Lancaster Environment Centre, Lancaster University, Bailrigg, Lancaster LA1 
4YQ, UK.
(3)College of Resources and Environmental Sciences, China Agricultural 
University, Beijing 100193, China.
(4)Centre for Development, Environment and Policy, SOAS University of London, 
London WC1H 0XG, UK.
(5)School of Life Sciences, Warwick Crop Centre, The University of Warwick, 
Wellesbourne, Warwick CV35 9EF, UK.
(6)College of Resources and Environmental Sciences, China Agricultural 
University, Beijing 100193, China. Electronic address: mengfq@cau.edu.cn.

In order to improve the efficiency of nutrient use whilst also meeting projected 
changes in the demand for food within China, new nutrient management frameworks 
comprised of policy, practice and the means of delivering change are required. 
These frameworks should be underpinned by systemic analyses of the stocks and 
flows of nutrients within agricultural production. In this paper, a 30-year time 
series of the stocks and flows of nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and potassium (K) 
are reported for Huantai county, an exemplar area of intensive agricultural 
production in the North China Plain. Substance flow analyses were constructed 
for the major crop systems in the county across the period 1983-2014. On average 
across all production systems between 2010 and 2014, total annual nutrient 
inputs to agricultural land in Huantai county remained high at 18.1kt N, 2.7kt P 
and 7.8kt K (696kg N ha-1; 104kgP ha-1; 300kgK ha-1). Whilst the application of 
inorganic fertiliser dominated these inputs, crop residues, atmospheric 
deposition and livestock manure represented significant, yet largely 
unrecognised, sources of nutrients, depending on the individual production 
system and the period of time. Whilst nutrient use efficiency (NUE) increased 
for N and P between 1983 and 2014, future improvements in NUE will require 
better alignment of nutrient inputs and crop demand. This is particularly true 
for high-value fruit and vegetable production, in which appropriate recognition 
of nutrient supply from sources such as manure and from soil reserves will be 
required to enhance NUE. Aligned with the structural organisation of the public 
agricultural extension service at county-scale in China, our analyses highlight 
key areas for the development of future agricultural policy and farm advice in 
order to rebalance the management of natural resources from a focus on 
production and growth towards the aims of efficiency and sustainability.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2017.10.335
PMID: 29156279


929. Pneumologie. 2018 Feb;72(2):132-137. doi: 10.1055/s-0043-118889. Epub 2017
Nov  20.

[The Overrated Impact of Inhaled Substances (LABA, LAMA, ICS) on Exacerbation 
Rates in COPD].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Köhler D(1), Dellweg D(2).

Author information:
(1)Schmallenberg, Winkhausen.
(2)Fachkrankenhaus Kloster Grafschaft, Schmallenberg.

Erratum in
    Pneumologie. 2018 Feb;72(2):e1.

Numerous studies have shown that exacerbation rates in COPD can be significantly 
reduced by long acting beta-2-agonists (LABA), long acting anticholinergic 
agents (LAMA) and inhaled steroids (ICS). Elaborate and extensive investigations 
however failed to prove that the reduction in exacerbation rates leads to life 
prolongation. As opposed to this, numerous studies have shown a reduction in 
life expectancy with increasing number and severity of exacerbations.This review 
aimed at comparing these studies and to elaborate the relevance and reduction of 
exacerbations rates by LABA, LAMA and ICS application through effect size 
calculation by means of Cohens' d. These studies display a common pattern. The 
reduction of exacerbation rates is only being achieved for less severe 
exacerbations (Cohens' d max. 0.21). For more severe exacerbations and for the 
comparison of different substances Cohens' d remains below 0.1, indicating that 
the effect of the medications is practically irrelevant. The impact of LABA's, 
LAMA's and ICS on exacerbation rates in COPD patients is obviously overrated.

Publisher: Durch zahlreiche Studien ist belegt, dass inhalative, langwirksame 
Beta-2-Mimetika (LABA) und Anticholinergika (LAMA) sowie Steroide (ICS) die 
Exazerbationsrate bei COPD signifikant reduzieren. Allerdings konnte auch in 
aufwendigen und länger dauernden Studien nicht gezeigt werden, dass diese 
Reduktion der Exazerbation auch die Lebenserwartung reduziert. Im Gegensatz dazu 
zeigen zahlreiche Studien, dass die Lebenserwartung mit zunehmender Schwere und 
Häufigkeit der Exazerbation vermindert wird.In dieser Übersicht werden diese 
Studien gegenübergestellt und die Relevanz der Reduktion der Exazerbationsraten 
durch LABA, LAMA und ICS durch Bewertung ihrer Effektstärke mittels Cohen’s d 
bewertet. Dabei zeigt sich in den Studien ein gleiches Muster. Die Reduktion der 
Exazerbationsrate zeigt nur bei den geringen Schweregraden einen kleinen Effekt 
(Cohen’s d max. 0,21). Bei Exazerbation mit höherem Schweregrad und bei 
Vergleich der Substanzen untereinander fällt Cohen’s d unter 0,1, was zeigt, 
dass die Wirkung der Medikamente klinisch praktisch bedeutungslos ist. Die 
Wirkung von LABA, LAMA und ICS auf die Exazerbationsrate bei COPD ist deutlich 
überschätzt.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0043-118889
PMID: 29156455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Die Autoren geben an, dass kein 
Interessenkonflikt besteht.


930. Anasthesiol Intensivmed Notfallmed Schmerzther. 2017 Nov;52(11-12):758-763.
doi:  10.1055/s-0043-105841. Epub 2017 Nov 20.

[Frailty: Prevalence in the Resident Population of Germany 70 - 79 Years of Age 
- a Population-Based Approach].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Fuchs J, Busch M, Scheidt-Nave C.

In all countries life expectancy is rising, and many older persons spend a 
longer period in good health. Nevertheless, frailty is present in older people 
and can be considered as a risk factor for limitations. The "German Health 
Interview and Examination Survey for Adults" (DEGS1) 2008 - 2011 comprised 
interviews, examinations and tests. Data on 1110 community-dwelling people aged 
70 to 79 years participating in DEGS1 with full records on frailty were 
analysed. Physical frailty was defined as exhaustion (SF-36 item), low grip 
strength, slowness (Timed Up-and-Go test > 15 seconds or unable to perform) and 
low physical activity (no sports or exertion). In men 36,6% (CI 32,2 - 41,2) 
were classified as pre-frail, 2,5% (CI 1,4 - 4,4) as frail; in women 41,8% (CI 
37,3 - 46,5) were classified as pre-frail, and 2,9% (CI 1,9 - 4,5) as frail. 
Frail persons significantly show more polypharmacy, recurrent falls, receive 
more frequently nursing care financial benefits, are officially recognized 
disabled and have poor social support. This population-based information may 
help to identify frail people with high risk of adverse health outcomes. 
Prediction models in operative anaesthesiology for specific health care settings 
should be developed.

Publisher: In allen Ländern steigt die Lebenserwartung und viele ältere Menschen 
verbringen mehr Zeit bei guter Gesundheit. Allerdings leiden Ältere auch unter 
Gebrechlichkeit (engl. frailty), die als Risikofaktor für Erkrankungen, 
Behinderungen oder Stürze gilt. Im Rahmen der „Studie zur Gesundheit Erwachsener 
in Deutschland“ (DEGS) 2008 – 2011 wurden Interviews, Untersuchungen und Tests 
durchgeführt. Für die Auswertungen wurden Daten von 1110 zu Hause lebenden 
DEGS1-Teilnehmenden im Alter von 70 bis 79 Jahren analysiert. Körperliche 
Gebrechlichkeit wurde definiert als das Vorliegen von drei oder mehr der 
folgenden Kriterien: selbst berichtete Erschöpfung, reduzierte Greifkraft, 
verlangsamte Gehgeschwindigkeit, geringe körperliche Aktivität und ein niedriger 
Body-Mass-Index; beim Vorliegen ein oder zwei der Kriterien wird von einer 
Vorstufe der Gebrechlichkeit (pre-frailty) ausgegangen. Bei Männern wurden 36,6% 
(Konfidenzintervall KI 32,2 – 41,2) als pre-frail, 2,5% (KI 1,4 – 4,4) als 
gebrechlich eingestuft; bei Frauen wurden 41,8% (KI 37,3 – 46,5) als pre-frail 
und 2,9% (KI 1,9 – 4,5) als gebrechlich eingestuft. Gebrechliche Personen geben 
signifikant häufiger Polypharmazie und Mehrfach-Stürze an, beziehen Leistungen 
aus der Pflegeversicherung, haben eine amtlich anerkannte Schwerbehinderung und 
geringere soziale Unterstützung. Diese bevölkerungsrepräsentativen Ergebnisse 
tragen zur Identifikation von gebrechlichen Menschen mit einem erhöhten Risiko 
für gesundheitliche Folgen bei. Entsprechende Prognosemodelle sollten in der 
operativen Anästhesiologie für die verschiedenen Versorgungsbereiche 
weiterentwickelt werden.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0043-105841
PMID: 29156480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Interessenkonflikt: Die Autoren geben an, dass 
kein Interessenkonflikt besteht.


931. Ann Palliat Med. 2018 Jul;7(3):349-354. doi: 10.21037/apm.2017.09.10. Epub
2017  Oct 13.

Advance care planning for patients with advanced neurology diseases.

Cheung KC(1), Lau VW(1), Un KC(2), Wong MS(2), Chan KY(3).

Author information:
(1)Medical Social Service, Grantham Hospital, Wong Chuk Hang, Hong Kong, China.
(2)Palliative Medical Unit, Grantham Hospital, Wong Chuk Hang, Hong Kong, China.
(3)Palliative Medical Unit, Grantham Hospital, Wong Chuk Hang, Hong Kong, China. 
cky842@yahoo.com.hk.

BACKGROUND: Advanced neurology diseases including motor neuron disease (MND) are 
usually progressive life-limiting illness and could be devastating for patients, 
families and caregivers. Although medical technologies, such as enteral feeding 
and non-invasive ventilation, may prolong life expectancy of the patients, their 
utilization prompts important ethical questions in regard to their quality of 
life (QoL). Little attention had been paid on how ACP practice would practically 
help with patients suffering from different neurology diseases. We are unaware 
of any published studies on ACP practice among patients with different neurology 
diseases. In our study, we assessed end-of-life (EOL) care preferences, 
documentation, and communication in patients with various types of advanced 
neurology diseases.
METHODS: This was a retrospective chart review of all patients referred to the 
neuro-palliative care team (NPCT) in a local acute hospital in Hong Kong. The 
study was approved by the institutional review board of the University of Hong 
Kong. NPCT consultation was hand abstracted from the electronic health record if 
there was a subspecialty palliative care (PC) consultation note during the study 
period. Hand abstraction of data also included any content related to advance 
care planning (ACP) [advance directive (AD), resuscitation order, ventilator 
support, artificial feeding, patient wishes, legacy].
RESULTS: For patient who signed AD, items including cardiopulmonary 
resuscitation (100%), mechanical ventilation (100%), artiﬁcial nutrition and 
hydration (80%) were mentioned more frequently than other EOL interventions. For 
patients who had ACP but without AD, the most common diagnosis is bad stroke 
(60%). Place of death, artiﬁcial nutrition and hydration were most mentioned EOL 
interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: EOL decision making in patients with advanced neurology disease is 
often delayed. This study showed that MND patients are readier to discuss their 
EOL issues and signed their AD. The NPCT can play a valuable role in EOL 
discussions in patients with advanced neurology diseases under collaboration 
between the PC and the neurology teams.

DOI: 10.21037/apm.2017.09.10
PMID: 29156917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Arch Soc Esp Oftalmol (Engl Ed). 2018 Feb;93(2):69-75. doi: 
10.1016/j.oftal.2017.09.005. Epub 2017 Nov 20.

Lifestyles guide and glaucoma (i). Sports and activities.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Moreno-Montañés J(1), Antón-López A(2), Duch-Tuesta S(3), Corsino Fernández-Vila 
P(4), García-Feijoó J(5), Millá-Griñó E(6), Muñoz-Negrete FJ(7), Pablo-Júlvez 
L(8), Rodríguez-Agirretxe I(9), Urcelay-Segura JL(10), Ussa-Herrera F(11), 
Villegas-Pérez MP(12); y Grupo Español de Estilos de Vida y Glaucoma.

Author information:
(1)Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Navarra, España. Electronic 
address: jmoreno@unav.es.
(2)Institut Català de Retina, Universitat Internacional de Catalunya, Barcelona, 
España.
(3)Instituto Condal de Oftalmología, Barcelona, España.
(4)Hospital de Pontevedra, Pontevedra, España.
(5)Hospital Clínico San Carlos, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Madrid, 
España.
(6)Hospital Clínic, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, España.
(7)Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal, Universidad de Alcalá, Instituto Ramón 
y Cajal de Investigación Sanitaria (IRYCIS), Madrid, España.
(8)Hospital Miguel Servet, Universidad de Zaragoza, Zaragoza, España.
(9)Hospital Donostia, Universidad del País Vasco, San Sebastián, Guipúzcoa, 
España.
(10)Hospital Gregorio Marañón, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Madrid, 
España.
(11)Instituto de Oftalmobiología Aplicada, Valladolid, España.
(12)Hospital General Universitario Reina Sofía, Universidad de Murcia, Murcia, 
España.

PURPOSES: The increase in quality and life expectancy, often leads to many 
patients asking the glaucoma specialist whether some sports, activities or 
hobbies would affect their illness. The aim of this article is to establish 
guidelines for patients, based on the scientific evidence of published papers.
METHODS: Review of all published articles on glaucoma and sports or other 
activities. The papers were classified according to the level of scientific 
evidence based on the Oxford Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine classification.
RESULTS: Aerobic sports are beneficial for the patient. Yoga indoor sports or 
relaxation techniques should be avoided if Valsalva manoeuvres are performed or 
the head is placed very low. Also, the patients must avoid sudden changes in 
height. Intense heat does not seem to lead to progression of glaucoma, but 
intense cold can affect patients with vascular dysregulation. Activities using 
the near vision slightly reduce the intraocular pressure. The use of wind 
instruments may raise intraocular pressure, depending on the technique used.
CONCLUSIONS: Certain sports and activities may have an influence on the onset or 
progression of glaucoma. Glaucoma specialists should have adequate information 
about the scientific evidence in the publications, in order to properly advise 
the patients.

Copyright © 2017 Sociedad Española de Oftalmología. Publicado por Elsevier 
España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oftal.2017.09.005
PMID: 29157839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. J Diabetes Complications. 2018 Feb;32(2):210-215. doi: 
10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2017.10.006. Epub 2017 Oct 14.

Cost-utility of empagliflozin in patients with type 2 diabetes at high 
cardiovascular risk.

Nguyen E(1), Coleman CI(2), Nair S(3), Weeda ER(4).

Author information:
(1)Idaho State University, College of Pharmacy, Meridian, ID, USA.
(2)University of Connecticut, Hartford Hospital Evidence-Based Practice Center, 
Hartford, CT, USA.
(3)University of Connecticut, School of Business, Hartford, CT, USA.
(4)Medical University of South Carolina, College of Pharmacy, Charleston, SC, 
USA. Electronic address: weeda@musc.edu.

AIMS: In the Empagliflozin, Cardiovascular Outcomes, and Mortality in Type 2 
Diabetes (EMPA-REG) trial, empagliflozin reduced cardiovascular and all-cause 
mortality in type 2 diabetes (T2D) patients at high cardiovascular risk. We 
sought to estimate the cost-effectiveness of empagliflozin versus standard 
treatment for the prevention of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in 
patients with T2D.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
empagliflozin (versus standard treatment) for the prevention of cardiovascular 
morbidity and mortality in patients with T2D using a 3-month cycle length and a 
lifetime horizon. Data sources included the EMPA-REG randomized clinical trial 
and other published epidemiological studies. Outcomes included treatment costs 
(in 2016 US$), quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). Probabilistic sensitivity analysis (PSA) was 
performed to test the robustness of conclusions.
RESULTS: Empagliflozin use resulted in higher total lifetime treatment costs 
($371,450 versus $272,966) but yielded greater QALYs (10.712 vs. 9.419) compared 
to standard treatment. This corresponded to an ICER of $76,167 per QALY gained. 
PSA suggested empagliflozin would be cost-effective in 96% of 10,000 iterations 
assuming a willingness-to-pay threshold of $100,000 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: Empagliflozin may be cost-effective compared to standard treatment 
in T2D patients at high cardiovascular risk.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2017.10.006
PMID: 29157870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Presse Med. 2017 Dec;46(12 Pt 2):e288-e295. doi: 10.1016/j.lpm.2017.05.037.
Epub  2017 Nov 20.

Genetic hemochromatosis: Pathophysiology, diagnostic and therapeutic management.

Brissot P(1), Cavey T(2), Ropert M(2), Guggenbuhl P(3), Loréal O(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Rennes 1, Hepatology, Faculty of Medicine, 2, avenue du Pr. 
Léon-Bernard, 35000 Rennes, France; Inserm-UMR 991, 2, rue Henri-Le-Guilloux, 
35033 Rennes, France. Electronic address: pierre.brissot@univ-rennes1.fr.
(2)Inserm-UMR 991, 2, rue Henri-Le-Guilloux, 35033 Rennes, France; CHU Rennes, 
Department of Specialized Biochemistry, 2, rue Henri-Le-Guilloux, 35033 Rennes, 
France.
(3)Inserm-UMR 991, 2, rue Henri-Le-Guilloux, 35033 Rennes, France; CHU Rennes, 
Department of Rheumatology, 2, rue Henri-Le-Guilloux, Rennes, France.
(4)Inserm-UMR 991, 2, rue Henri-Le-Guilloux, 35033 Rennes, France.

The term hemochromatosis (HC) corresponds to several diseases characterized by 
systemic iron overload of genetic origin and affecting both the quality of life 
and life expectancy. Major improvement in the knowledge of iron metabolism 
permits to divide these diseases into two main pathophysiological categories. 
For most HC forms (types 1, 2, 3 and 4B HC) iron overload is related to cellular 
hepcidin deprivation which causes an increase of plasma iron concentration and 
the appearance of plasma non-transferrin bound iron. In contrast, iron excess in 
type 4A ferroportin disease is related to decreased cellular iron export. 
Whatever the HC type, the diagnosis rests on a non-invasive strategy, combining 
clinical, biological and imaging data. The mainstay of the treatment remains 
venesection therapy with the perspective of hepcidin supplementation for 
hepcidin deprivation-related HC. Prevention of HC is critical at the family 
level and, for type 1 HC, remains a major goal, although still debated, at the 
population level.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lpm.2017.05.037
PMID: 29158016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. World Neurosurg. 2018 Feb;110:e496-e503. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2017.11.046.
Epub  2017 Nov 20.

Cost-Effectiveness of Endoscopic Versus Microscopic Transsphenoidal Surgery for 
Pituitary Adenoma.

Ament JD(1), Yang Z(2), Khatchadourian V(3), Strong EB(4), Shahlaie K(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of California, Davis, Davis, 
California, USA. Electronic address: jdament@ucdavis.edu.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, University of California, Davis, Davis, 
California, USA.
(3)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of California, Davis, Davis, 
California, USA.
(4)Department of Otolaryngology, University of California, Davis, Davis, 
California, USA.

BACKGROUND: Endoscopic transsphenoidal surgery (ETPS) has become increasingly 
popular for resection of pituitary tumors, whereas microscopic transsphenoidal 
surgery (MTPS) also remains a commonly used approach. The economic 
sustainability of new techniques and technologies is rarely evaluated in the 
neurosurgical skull base literature. The aim of this study was to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of ETPS compared with MTPS.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to conduct a cost-utility analysis of 
ETPS versus MTPS from a single-payer health care perspective. Data were obtained 
from previously published outcomes studies. Costs were based on Medicare 
reimbursement rates, considering covariates such as complications, length of 
stay, and operative time. The base case adopted a 2-year follow-up period. 
Univariate and multivariate sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: On average, ETPS costs $143 less and generates 0.014 quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) compared with MTPS over 2 years. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) is -$10,214 per QALY, suggesting economic 
dominance. The QALY benefit increased to 0.105 when modeled to 10 years, 
suggesting that ETPS becomes even more favorable over time.
CONCLUSIONS: ETPS appears to be cost-effective when compared with MTPS because 
the ICER falls below the commonly accepted $50,000 per QALY benchmark. Model 
limitations and assumptions affect the generalizability of the conclusion; 
however, ongoing efforts to improve rhinologic morbidity related to ETPS would 
appear to further augment the marginal cost savings and QALYs gained. Further 
research on the cost-effectiveness of ETPS using prospective data is warranted.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2017.11.046
PMID: 29158096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Pancreatology. 2018 Jan;18(1):85-93. doi: 10.1016/j.pan.2017.11.003. Epub
2017  Nov 11.

Intratumoural leukocyte infiltration is a prognostic indicator among pancreatic 
cancer patients with type 2 diabetes.

Karnevi E(1), Sasor A(2), Hilmersson KS(3), Ansari D(3), Erjefält JS(4), 
Rosendahl AH(5), Andersson R(3).

Author information:
(1)Lund University and Skåne University Hospital, Department of Clinical 
Sciences Lund, Division of Surgery, Lund, Sweden; Lund University and Skåne 
University Hospital, Department of Clinical Sciences Lund, Division of Oncology 
and Pathology, Lund, Sweden. Electronic address: emelie.karnevi@med.lu.se.
(2)Skåne Regional Laboratories, Department of Pathology, Lund, Sweden.
(3)Lund University and Skåne University Hospital, Department of Clinical 
Sciences Lund, Division of Surgery, Lund, Sweden.
(4)Lund University, Department of Experimental Medical Sciences, Division of 
Respiratory Medicine and Allergology, Lund, Sweden.
(5)Lund University and Skåne University Hospital, Department of Clinical 
Sciences Lund, Division of Oncology and Pathology, Lund, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: The life expectancy of pancreatic cancer patients remains minimal. 
The disease progression may be influenced by type 2 diabetes (T2D) and 
inflammatory status, although important gaps persist around their joint effects 
on disease outcome. The aim of this study was to investigate the clinical 
significance of the tumour immune microenvironment on pancreatic cancer 
prognosis in relation to T2D status.
METHOD: Tumour-infiltrating macrophages, neutrophils and eosinophils were 
studied in primary pancreatic tumours and paired lymph node metastases in 
relation to patient and tumour characteristics, T2D status and overall survival 
in a retrospective cohort of patients with resectable pancreatic cancer in 
Sweden.
RESULTS: Of the 80 included pancreatic cancer patients, 22 (27.2%) had T2D. The 
diabetic pancreatic cancer patients had significantly higher systemic high white 
blood cell count than those without diabetes (P = 0.028). Macrophage 
infiltration levels were higher in lymph node metastases compared with primary 
tumours (P = 0.040) among pancreatic cancer patients with diabetes. Type 2 
diabetes or intra-tumoural leukocyte (macrophage, neutrophil or eosinophil) 
infiltration alone did not significantly influence pancreatic cancer prognosis. 
However, among cancer patients with T2D high macrophage or neutrophil 
tumour-infiltration was associated with a significant reduction in overall 
survival (adjusted hazard ratio [HR] 7.2; 95% CI 1.5-35.0 and HR 5.4; 95% CI 
1.1-26.3, respectively).
CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate associations between T2D and enhanced 
inflammatory processes with significant implications on survival among 
pancreatic cancer patients with T2D. Validation in larger independent patient 
cohorts may identify additional prognostic tools and improved treatment 
strategies for specific patient subsets.

Copyright © 2017 IAP and EPC. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pan.2017.11.003
PMID: 29158145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. J Clin Orthop Trauma. 2017 Nov;8(Suppl 2):S57-S61. doi: 
10.1016/j.jcot.2017.09.001. Epub 2017 Sep 5.

Life expectancy of osteoarthritic patients after primary total knee 
arthroplasty.

Ishii Y(1), Noguchi H(1), Sato J(1), Ishii H(2), Takayama S(1), Toyabe SI(3).

Author information:
(1)Ishii Orthopaedic & Rehabilitation Clinic, 1089 Shimo-Oshi, Gyoda, Saitama 
361-0037, Japan.
(2)Kouseiren Takaoka Hospital, 5-10 Eirakutyo Takaoka, Toyama 933-8555, Japan.
(3)Niigata University Crisis Management Office, Niigata University Hospital, 
Niigata University Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, 1 Asahimachi 
Dori Niigata, Niigata 951-8520, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Although an increased life expectancy has been previously reported 
in patients with osteoarthritis (OA) after undergoing total knee arthroplasty 
(TKA), the long-living Japanese population may provide a more accurate cohort 
for determining 10- and 15-year survival rates. The aims of the present study 
were to (1) determine the survival of patients after TKA, (2) identify the 
factors important for survival, and (3) compare the survival rate of the OA 
patients with that of the standardized general population.
METHODS: The 5-, 10-, and 15-year survival rates were assessed in 326 
consecutive OA patients treated with TKA from January 1998 to December 2013. 
Eighty-six of the cases were staged bilateral TKAs. All patients were followed 
until December 31, 2014 or until the time of death. The survival rate of the 
patients was compared with that of the standardized general population using 
Kaplan-Meier survival curves.
RESULTS: Fifty-one of the patients died before the end of the follow-up. The 
cumulative 5-year patient survival was 93.5%, 10-year survival was 82.1%, and 
15-year survival was 66.6%. The standardized mortality ratio was 0.916 (95% 
confidence interval: 0.682-1.204). A Cox proportional hazards model showed that 
increased age and unilateral TKA were factors related to higher patient 
mortality rates.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that patients undergoing TKA can expect similar 
life expectancy as the general population, with 66.6% of such patients surviving 
for at least 15-years. Additionally, patients undergoing bilateral TKAs may have 
a longer life expectancy than those undergoing unilateral TKA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcot.2017.09.001
PMCID: PMC5681233
PMID: 29158649


938. Ann Intern Med. 2018 Jan 2;168(1):10-19. doi: 10.7326/M17-0611. Epub 2017
Nov  21.

Cost-Effectiveness of Publicly Funded Treatment of Opioid Use Disorder in 
California.

Krebs E(1), Enns B(1), Evans E(1), Urada D(1), Anglin MD(1), Rawson RA(1), Hser 
YI(1), Nosyk B(1).

Author information:
(1)From British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada; UCLA Integrated Substance Abuse Programs and Veterans Affairs 
Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System, Los Angeles, California; University of 
Massachusetts Amherst School of Public Health and Health Sciences, Amherst, 
Massachusetts; and Simon Fraser University Faculty of Health Sciences, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2018 Jan 2;168(1):73-74.

BACKGROUND: Only 1 in 5 of the nearly 2.4 million Americans with an opioid use 
disorder received treatment in 2015. Fewer than half of Californians who 
received treatment in 2014 received opioid agonist treatment (OAT), and 
regulations for admission to OAT in California are more stringent than federal 
regulations.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of OAT for all treatment 
recipients compared with the observed standard of care for patients presenting 
with opioid use disorder to California's publicly funded treatment facilities.
DESIGN: Model-based cost-effectiveness analysis.
DATA SOURCES: Linked population-level administrative databases capturing 
treatment and criminal justice records for California (2006 to 2010); published 
literature.
TARGET POPULATION: Persons initially presenting for publicly funded treatment of 
opioid use disorder.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTION: Immediate access to OAT with methadone for all treatment 
recipients compared with the observed standard of care (54.3% initiate opioid 
use disorder treatment with medically managed withdrawal).
OUTCOME MEASURES: Discounted quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and discounted 
costs.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Immediate access to OAT for all treatment 
recipients costs less (by $78 257), with patients accumulating more QALYs (by 
0.42) than with the observed standard of care. In a hypothetical scenario where 
all Californians starting treatment of opioid use disorder in 2014 had immediate 
access to OAT, total lifetime savings for this cohort could be as high as $3.8 
billion.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: 99.6% of the 2000 simulations resulted in lower 
costs and more QALYs.
LIMITATION: Nonrandomized delivery of OAT or medically managed withdrawal.
CONCLUSION: The value of publicly funded treatment of opioid use disorder in 
California is maximized when OAT is delivered to all patients presenting for 
treatment, providing greater health benefits and cost savings than the observed 
standard of care.
PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: National Institute on Drug Abuse.

DOI: 10.7326/M17-0611
PMID: 29159398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Eur J Clin Pharmacol. 2018 Mar;74(3):331-338. doi:
10.1007/s00228-017-2376-2.  Epub 2017 Nov 20.

Inter-rater reliability of STOPPFrail [Screening Tool of Older Persons 
Prescriptions in Frail adults with limited life expectancy] criteria amongst 12 
physicians.

Lavan AH(1)(2), Gallagher P(3)(4), O'Mahony D(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Cork University Hospital, Wilton, Cork, T12 
DC4A, Ireland. amandalavan@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Medicine, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland. 
amandalavan@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Cork University Hospital, Wilton, Cork, T12 
DC4A, Ireland.
(4)Department of Medicine, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland.

PURPOSE: STOPPFrail is an explicit tool, developed by Delphi consensus, to 
assist physicians with deprescribing medications in frail older adults with poor 
survival prognosis. This study aimed to determine the inter-rater reliability 
(IRR), amongst physicians, of STOPPFrail application.
METHODS: Twenty clinical cases were collated to represent frail older patients. 
Eighteen cases met STOPPFrail inclusion criteria. They had a mean age of 79.5 
(SD6) years and a median of 7 (IQR6-8.25) comorbidities and were prescribed a 
median of 9 (IQR7.75-11.25) medications. Two of the STOPPFrail originators 
reached complete agreement (gold standard) in determining 91 of 165 medications 
(55.2%) as inappropriate. Twelve physicians (6 geriatricians, 3 general 
practitioners and 3 palliative care physicians) independently applied STOPPFrail 
criteria. IRR between physicians and gold standard (GS) assessment was 
determined using Cohen's kappa statistic.
RESULTS: Eighteen of the 20 cases that met STOPPFrail inclusion criteria were 
correctly identified by 9 of 12 physicians (75%). The average time taken per 
clinical case was 2.7 (SD0.94) minutes. The kappa co-efficient between 
physicians and GS assessment ranged from 0.71 (substantial) to 0.86 (good), with 
a mean kappa value of 0.758 (SD0.059). The Fleiss kappa coefficients between GS 
assessment and geriatricians, GPs and palliative care physicians were 0.80 
(SD0.6), 0.77 (SD0.9) and 0.75 (SD0.1), respectively. No significant difference 
was noted, between groups or between participants within groups, as determined 
by one-way ANOVA, (df (2, 9) = 0.712, p = 0.516).
CONCLUSIONS: IRR of STOPPFrail criteria between physicians, practising in 
different specialties, is substantial, despite no prior knowledge of the 
criteria.

DOI: 10.1007/s00228-017-2376-2
PMID: 29159488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Drugs Aging. 2017 Dec;34(12):881-889. doi: 10.1007/s40266-017-0500-8.

Management of Hemophilia in Older Patients.

Franchini M(1), Mannucci PM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Transfusion Medicine and Hematology, Carlo Poma Hospital, 
Mantua, Italy.
(2)Scientific Direction, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda-Ospedale Maggiore 
Policlinico, University of Milan, Via Pace 9, Milan, Italy. 
piermannuccio.mannucci@policlinico.mi.it.

In recent decades, several improvements in hemophilia care have resulted in 
