MicroRNA in Glioblastoma: An Overview.

Banelli B(1)(2), Forlani A(1), Allemanni G(1), Morabito A(1), Pistillo MP(1), 
Romani M(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Tumor Epigenetics, Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Genova, 
Italy.
(2)Department of Health Sciences, University of Genova, Genova, Italy.

Glioblastoma is the most aggressive brain tumor and, even with the current 
multimodal therapy, is an invariably lethal cancer with a life expectancy that 
depends on the tumor subtype but, even in the most favorable cases, rarely 
exceeds 2 years. Epigenetic factors play an important role in gliomagenesis, are 
strong predictors of outcome, and are important determinants for the resistance 
to radio- and chemotherapy. The latest addition to the epigenetic machinery is 
the noncoding RNA (ncRNA), that is, RNA molecules that are not translated into a 
protein and that exert their function by base pairing with other nucleic acids 
in a reversible and nonmutational mode. MicroRNAs (miRNA) are a class of ncRNA 
of about 22 bp that regulate gene expression by binding to complementary 
sequences in the mRNA and silence its translation into proteins. MicroRNAs 
reversibly regulate transcription through nonmutational mechanisms; accordingly, 
they can be considered as epigenetic effectors. In this review, we will discuss 
the role of miRNA in glioma focusing on their role in drug resistance and on 
their potential applications in the therapy of this tumor.

DOI: 10.1155/2017/7639084
PMCID: PMC5695025
PMID: 29234674


191. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2015;2(1):71-76. doi: 10.14283/jpad.2015.42.

Community-Based Intervention for Prevention of Dementia in Japan.

Suzuki T(1), Makizako H, Doi T, Park H, Lee S, Tsutsumimoto K, Umemura K, Maki 
Y, Shimada H.

Author information:
(1)Takao Suzuki, National Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology, 7-430, Morioka, 
Obu, Aichi 474-8511 Japan, Phone:+81-562-46-2311(ex. 5001); FAX: 
+81-562-45-0184, e-mail: suzutaka@ ncgg.go.jp.

Population aging is accelerating, with prolonged life expectancy and a decrease 
in birth rate. As age is a significant risk factor for dementia, we are 
confronted with an ever-increasing prevalence of mild cognitive impairment 
(MCI)/dementia. Thus, the Japanese National Center for Geriatrics and 
Gerontology launched a project to promote community-based research, including 
the development of an effective screening system for high-risk groups and 
intervention for dementia prevention. This review introduces the project, the 
Obu Study of Health Promotion for the Elderly, with the following strategic 
triad: 1) Identification of the target population by population screening; we 
regarded patients with MCI as the target population, and developed a screening 
test battery to identify MCI in a population screening setting. 2) Scientific 
evaluation of community-based intervention; we developed an interventional 
method combining exercise and cognitive training ("cognicise"). In practical 
settings, "cognicise" is programmed into multicomponent exercise intervention, 
which was reported to have benefits of cognitive improvement and reduction of 
brain atrophy based on randomized controlled trials. 3) Standardization of the 
methods of population screening and community-based intervention for 
evidence-based policy making and widespread implementation. Dementia prevention, 
or at least delaying the onset of dementia and/or stopping/slowing the 
progression of dementia, should benefit the whole society as well as 
individuals. It is our continuing challenge to improve the screening system and 
community-based intervention for dementia prevention through accumulation of 
evidence.

DOI: 10.14283/jpad.2015.42
PMID: 29234778

Conflict of interest statement: None


192. Pathologe. 2018 May;39(3):249-254. doi: 10.1007/s00292-017-0400-z.

[Lysosomal acid lipase deficiency (LAL-D) : Diagnostic and therapeutic options 
in an underdiagnosed disease].

[Article in German]

Synoracki S(1), Kathemann S(2), Schmid KW(3), Jastrow H(4), Baba HA(3).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Pathologie, Universitätsklinikum Essen, Universität 
Duisburg-Essen, Hufelandstraße 55, 45147, Essen, Deutschland. 
sarah.synoracki@uk-essen.de.
(2)Klinik für Kinderheilkunde II, Universitätsklinikum Essen, Universität 
Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Deutschland.
(3)Institut für Pathologie, Universitätsklinikum Essen, Universität 
Duisburg-Essen, Hufelandstraße 55, 45147, Essen, Deutschland.
(4)Universitätsklinikum Essen, Imaging Center Essen, Universität Duisburg-Essen, 
Essen, Deutschland.

BACKGROUND AND CLINICAL SETTING: Lysosomal acid lipase deficiency is an 
autosomal recessive storage disease caused by mutations in the LIPA gene. The 
accumulation of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides in hepatocytes lead to 
hepatomegaly with progressive fibrosis and liver cirrhosis. Characteristically, 
patients have a hepatomegaly combined with high serum levels of cholesterol, 
LDL-cholesterol and in some cases triglyceride, whereas HDL-cholesterol is 
decreased. Histologically, hepatocytes show a microvesicular steatosis with 
typically ballooned Kupffer cells. Even though histological morphology is 
typical, it is not characteristic. Therefore LAL-D is supposed to be an 
underdiagnosed disease with a high number of unreported cases misdiagnosed as 
uncharacteristic fatty liver disease (NASH, NAFLD, cryptogenic liver cirrhosis). 
Further, there is overlap with other storage diseases, complicating a correct 
diagnosis.
THERAPY: Until recently, different therapeutic options could not prevent 
development of liver cirrhosis. Patients with Wolman's disease have 
an especially rapid progression and die within the first six months of life. 
With the recent development of a new enzyme replacement therapy with sebelipase 
alfa (Kanuma ®), new therapeutic options with significant improvement of 
dyslipidemia and reduction of transaminases have become reality. Positive 
clinical results seem to have the potential to significantly raise life 
expectancy.
CONCLUSION: These new therapeutic options warrant an increase in awareness of 
LAL-D by clinicians and pathologists. Correct diagnosis of LAL-D is important 
for effective therapy and long-term survival.

DOI: 10.1007/s00292-017-0400-z
PMID: 29234937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2017 Nov;66(6):1-75.

Deaths: Final Data for 2015.

Murphy SL, Xu J, Kochanek KD, Curtin SC, Arias E.

Objectives-This report presents final 2015 data on U.S. deaths, death rates, 
life expectancy, infant mortality, and trends, by selected characteristics such 
as age, sex, Hispanic origin and race, state of residence, and cause of death. 
Methods-Information reported on death certificates, which are completed by 
funeral directors, attending physicians, medical examiners, and coroners, is 
presented in descriptive tabulations. The original records are filed in state 
registration offices. Statistical information is compiled in a national database 
through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program of the National Center for 
Health Statistics. Causes of death are processed in accordance with the 
International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Revision. Results-In 2015, a 
total of 2,712,630 deaths were reported in the United States. The age-adjusted 
death rate was 733.1 deaths per 100,000 U.S. standard population, an increase of 
1.2% from the 2014 rate. Life expectancy at birth was 78.8 years, a decrease of 
0.1 year from 2014. Life expectancy decreased from 2014 to 2015 for non-Hispanic 
white males (0.2 year), non-Hispanic white females (0.1), non-Hispanic black 
males (0.4), non-Hispanic black females (0.1), Hispanic males (0.1), and 
Hispanic females (0.2). Age-specific death rates increased in 2015 from 2014 for 
age groups 5-14, 15-24, 25-34, 35-44, 55-64, 65-74, and 85 and over. The 15 
leading causes of death in 2015 remained the same as in 2014. The infant 
mortality rate, 5.90 infant deaths per 1,000 live births in 2015, did not change 
significantly from the rate of 5.82 in 2014. Conclusions-The age-adjusted death 
rate increased for the first time since 2005. Life expectancy for the total 
population decreased for the first time since 1993.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 29235985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Int J Mol Sci. 2017 Dec 13;18(12):2697. doi: 10.3390/ijms18122697.

Advances in Proteomic Techniques for Cytokine Analysis: Focus on Melanoma 
Research.

Kupcova Skalnikova H(1), Cizkova J(2)(3), Cervenka J(4)(5), Vodicka P(6).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Applied Proteome Analyses, Institute of Animal Physiology and 
Genetics, Czech Academy of Sciences, Rumburska 89, 27721 Libechov, Czech 
Republic. skalnikova@iapg.cas.cz.
(2)Laboratory of Applied Proteome Analyses, Institute of Animal Physiology and 
Genetics, Czech Academy of Sciences, Rumburska 89, 27721 Libechov, Czech 
Republic. cizkova@iapg.cas.cz.
(3)Department of Veterinary Sciences, Faculty of Agrobiology, Food and Natural 
Resources, Czech University of Life Sciences, Kamycka 129, 16500 Prague, Czech 
Republic. cizkova@iapg.cas.cz.
(4)Laboratory of Applied Proteome Analyses, Institute of Animal Physiology and 
Genetics, Czech Academy of Sciences, Rumburska 89, 27721 Libechov, Czech 
Republic. cervenka@iapg.cas.cz.
(5)Department of Cell Biology, Faculty of Science, Charles University, Vinicna 
7, 12843 Prague 4, Czech Republic. cervenka@iapg.cas.cz.
(6)Laboratory of Applied Proteome Analyses, Institute of Animal Physiology and 
Genetics, Czech Academy of Sciences, Rumburska 89, 27721 Libechov, Czech 
Republic. vodicka@iapg.cas.cz.

Melanoma is a skin cancer with permanently increasing incidence and resistance 
to therapies in advanced stages. Reports of spontaneous regression and tumour 
infiltration with T-lymphocytes makes melanoma candidate for immunotherapies. 
Cytokines are key factors regulating immune response and intercellular 
communication in tumour microenvironment. Cytokines may be used in therapy of 
melanoma to modulate immune response. Cytokines also possess diagnostic and 
prognostic potential and cytokine production may reflect effects of 
immunotherapies. The purpose of this review is to give an overview of recent 
advances in proteomic techniques for the detection and quantification of 
cytokines in melanoma research. Approaches covered span from mass spectrometry 
to immunoassays for single molecule detection (ELISA, western blot), multiplex 
assays (chemiluminescent, bead-based (Luminex) and planar antibody arrays), 
ultrasensitive techniques (Singulex, Simoa, immuno-PCR, proximity 
ligation/extension assay, immunomagnetic reduction assay), to analyses of single 
cells producing cytokines (ELISpot, flow cytometry, mass cytometry and emerging 
techniques for single cell secretomics). Although this review is focused mainly 
on cancer and particularly melanoma, the discussed techniques are in general 
applicable to broad research field of biology and medicine, including stem 
cells, development, aging, immunology and intercellular communication.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms18122697
PMCID: PMC5751298
PMID: 29236046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


195. Health Econ. 2018 Mar;27(3):606-621. doi: 10.1002/hec.3617. Epub 2017 Dec
13.

Mortality effects of containing moral hazard: Evidence from disability insurance 
reform.

García-Gómez P(1), Gielen AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus School of Economics, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

We exploit an age discontinuity in a Dutch disability insurance reform to 
identify the health impact of stricter eligibility criteria and reduced 
generosity. Our results show substantial adverse effects on life expectancy for 
women subject to the more stringent criteria. A €1,000 reduction in annual 
benefits leads to a 2.4 percentage points higher probability of death more than 
10 years after the reform. This negative health effect is restricted to women 
with low pre-disability earnings. We find that the mortality rate of men subject 
to the stricter rules is reduced by 0.7 percentage points. The evidence for the 
existence of substantial health effects implies that policymakers considering a 
disability insurance reform should carefully balance the welfare gains from 
reduced moral hazard against losses not only from less coverage of income risks 
but also from deteriorated health.

Copyright © 2017 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.3617
PMID: 29237234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2017 Dec 13;12(1):179. doi: 10.1186/s13023-017-0731-0.

Cost-effectiveness of enzyme replacement therapy with alglucosidase alfa in 
adult patients with Pompe disease.

Kanters TA(1), van der Ploeg AT(2), Kruijshaar ME(2), Rizopoulos D(3), Redekop 
WK(4), Rutten-van Mӧlken MPMH(4), Hakkaart-van Roijen L(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, PO 
Box 1738, 3000DR, Rotterdam, the Netherlands. kanters@imta.eur.nl.
(2)Center for Lysosomal and Metabolic Diseases, Department of Pediatrics 
Sophia's Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(4)Erasmus School of Health Policy & Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Pompe disease is a rare, progressive, metabolic disease, and the 
first treatable inheritable muscle disorder. Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) 
with alglucosidase alfa is disease specific and the only medicinal product 
authorized for the treatment of Pompe disease. Costs of ERT are very high as for 
most orphan drugs. This study investigates the cost-effectiveness of ERT 
compared to supportive treatment in adult patients with Pompe disease.
METHODS: Survival probabilities were estimated from an international 
observational dataset (n = 283) using a time-dependent Cox model. Quality of 
life was estimated on a Dutch observational dataset using a previously developed 
conceptual model which links clinical factors to quality of life. Costs included 
costs of ERT, costs of drug administration and other healthcare costs. 
Cost-effectiveness was estimated using a patient-level simulation model 
(n = 90), synthesising the information from underlying models for survival, 
quality of life and costs. The cost-effectiveness model estimated the 
(difference in) lifetime effects and costs for both treatments. Two scenarios 
were modelled: (1) a worse case scenario with no extrapolation of the survival 
gain due to ERT beyond the observed period (i.e. from 10 years onwards); and (2) 
a best case scenario with lifetime extrapolation of the survival gain due to 
ERT. Effects were expressed in (quality adjusted) life years (QALYs). Costs were 
discounted at 4.0% and effects at 1.5%.
RESULTS: Substantial increases in survival were estimated - discounted 
incremental life years of ERT ranged from 1.9 years to 5.4 years in the 
scenarios without and with extrapolation of survival gains beyond the observed 
period. Quality of life was also significantly better for patients receiving 
ERT. Incremental costs were considerable and primarily consisted of the costs of 
ERT. Incremental costs per QALY were €3.2 million for scenario 1 and €1.8 
million for scenario 2.
CONCLUSIONS: The availability of extended, prospectively collected, longitudinal 
observational data on the most important input parameters required to construct 
a cost-effectiveness model is quite exceptional for orphan diseases. The 
cost-effectiveness model showed substantial survival gains from ERT. Despite 
these substantial gains, ERT was not cost-effective in the treatment of adult 
Pompe disease because of the high cost of treatment.

DOI: 10.1186/s13023-017-0731-0
PMCID: PMC5729274
PMID: 29237491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The 
study protocol was approved by the Medical Ethical Committee of the Erasmus MC 
University Hospital (MEC 2007–103). All participants provided informed consent. 
CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: AvdP has provided 
consulting services for various industries in the field of Pompe disease. The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


197. Front Microbiol. 2017 Nov 29;8:2326. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.02326.
eCollection  2017.

A Probabilistic Decision-Making Scoring System for Quality and Safety Management 
in Aloreña de Málaga Table Olive Processing.

Ruiz Bellido MÁ(1), Valero A(2), Medina Pradas E(3), Romero Gil V(1)(3), 
Rodríguez-Gómez F(3), Posada-Izquierdo GD(2), Rincón F(2), Possas A(2), 
García-Gimeno RM(2), Arroyo-López FN(3).

Author information:
(1)Regulatory Council of PDO Aloreña de Málaga Table Olives, Malaga, Spain.
(2)Department of Food Science and Technology, Universidad de Córdoba, Córdoba, 
Spain.
(3)Food Biotechnology Department, Instituto de la Grasa (Consejo Superior de 
Investigaciones Científicas), University Campus Pablo de Olavide, Seville, 
Spain.

Table olives are one of the most representatives and consumed fermented 
vegetables in Mediterranean countries. However, there is an evident lack of 
standardization of production processes and HACCP systems thus implying the need 
of establishing decision-making tools allowing their commercialization and 
shelf-life extension. The present work aims at developing a decision-making 
scoring system by means of a probabilistic assessment to standardize production 
process of Aloreña de Málaga table olives based on the identification of 
potential hazards or deficiencies in hygienic processes for the subsequent 
implementation of corrective measures. A total of 658 microbiological and 
physico-chemical data were collected over three consecutive olive campaigns 
(2014-2016) to measure the variability and relative importance of each 
elaboration step on total hygienic quality and product safety. Three 
representative companies were visited to collect samples from food-contact 
surfaces, olive fruits, brines, air environment, olive dressings, water tanks, 
and finished/packaged products. A probabilistic assessment was done based on the 
establishment of Performance Hygiene and Safety Scores (PHSS 0-100%) through a 
standardized system for evaluating product acceptability. The mean value of the 
global PHSS for the Aloreña de Málaga table olives processing (PHHSFTOT) was 
64.82% (90th CI: 52.78-76.39%) indicating the high variability among facilities 
in the evaluated processing steps on final product quality and safety. Washing 
and cracking, and selection and addition of olive dressings were detected as the 
most deficient ones in relation to PHSSFi values (p < 0.05) (mean = 53.02 and 
56.62%, respectively). The relative contribution of each processing step was 
quantified by different experts (n = 25) from the Aloreña de Málaga table olive 
sector through a weighted PHSS (PHSSw). The mean value of PHSSw was 65.53% (90th 
CI: 53.12-77.52%). The final processing steps obtained higher values for PHSSw 
being the finished product the most relevant one (mean = 18.44%; 90% CI: 
10.34-25.33%). Sensitivity analysis concluded that intervention measures focused 
on reducing the contamination of washing brines could lead to an improvement of 
PHSSFTOT value to 67.03%. The present work can be potentially applied in the 
Aloreña de Málaga table olive food sector for improving food quality and safety 
assurance.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.02326
PMCID: PMC5712556
PMID: 29238326


198. Confl Health. 2017 Dec 11;11:29. doi: 10.1186/s13031-017-0133-x. eCollection
 2017.

Health needs of older populations affected by humanitarian crises in low- and 
middle-income countries: a systematic review.

Massey E(1), Smith J(1), Roberts B(1).

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 15-17 Tavistock Place, 
London, WC1H 9SH UK.

BACKGROUND: The combination of global demographic changes and a growing number 
of humanitarian crises in middle-income countries that have a higher life 
expectancy has led to an increase in the number of older populations affected by 
humanitarian crises. The aim of this review was to systematically examine 
evidence on the health needs of older populations in humanitarian crises, 
including both armed conflicts and natural disasters, in low- and middle-income 
countries (LMICs).
METHODS: A systematic review methodology was used. The search strategy used 
terms related to older populations and humanitarian crises in LMICs. Five 
bibliographic databases were used, along with relevant grey literature sources. 
Descriptive analysis was used, and a quality assessment conducted using the 
Newcastle-Ottawa Scale and CASP instruments.
RESULTS: A total of 36 studies were eligible for review. The majority of the 
studies were cross-sectional, three were cohort studies, and four used 
qualitative methodologies. The main health outcomes were mental health, physical 
health, functioning, and nutrition. Vulnerability factors included older age, 
female gender, being widowed, increased exposure to traumatic events, prior 
mental health problems, low income and education, and rural residency. Ten 
studies addressed the responsiveness of health systems and access to such 
services. The quality of the included studies was generally low.
CONCLUSIONS: There is an urgent need to strengthen the evidence base on the 
health needs of older populations in humanitarian crises.

DOI: 10.1186/s13031-017-0133-x
PMCID: PMC5724338
PMID: 29238401

Conflict of interest statement: No ethics approval was required for this study 
as it was a literature review using studies already in the public domain.Not 
applicable.Bayard Roberts is Editor-in-Chief of Conflict in Health. He was not 
involved in handling this manuscript.Springer Nature remains neutral with regard 
to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


199. Front Med (Lausanne). 2017 Nov 29;4:215. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2017.00215. 
eCollection 2017.

Is Life Extension Today a Faustian Bargain?

Olshansky SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL, United States.

Comment in
    Front Med (Lausanne). 2018 Mar 19;5:73.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2017.00215
PMCID: PMC5712535
PMID: 29238709


200. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 2018 Apr;137(4):287-295. doi: 10.1111/acps.12842. Epub
 2017 Dec 14.

Life expectancy after the first suicide attempt.

Jokinen J(1)(2), Talbäck M(3), Feychting M(3), Ahlbom A(3), Ljung R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(2)Department of Clinical Sciences, Psychiatry, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden.
(3)Unit of Epidemiology, Institute of Environmental Medicine, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To assess excess mortality among suicide attempters compared to the 
general population.
METHOD: Remaining life expectancy was calculated for a nationwide cohort of all 
187 894 persons 18 years or older hospitalised for the first time attempted 
suicide in Sweden in 1971-2010.
RESULTS: Life expectancy was shortened throughout the lifespan for both men and 
women debuting with suicide attempt. The reduction in life expectancy for men 
debuting with a suicide attempt at 20 years of age was 18 years while the 
reduction for men debuting at 50 years of age was 10 years. For women attempting 
suicide, the life expectancy was shortened by 11 and 8 years respectively. The 
gender difference in life expectancy attenuated in patients making their first 
suicide attempt at age 70 years or older. Suicide deaths explained about 20% of 
the total mortality within 10 years of the suicide attempt and 5% in those with 
duration of four decades since the first suicide attempt.
CONCLUSION: The life expectancy is dramatically reduced in patients attempting 
suicide. With most excess deaths being due to physical health conditions, public 
efforts should be directed both towards improving physical health and to prevent 
suicide.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acps.12842
PMID: 29238963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Nature. 2017 Dec 14;552(7684):S57-S59. doi: 10.1038/d41586-017-08387-y.

New tricks from old dogs join the fight against ageing.

Savage N.

DOI: 10.1038/d41586-017-08387-y
PMID: 29239380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Geospat Health. 2017 Nov 7;12(2):581. doi: 10.4081/gh.2017.581.

The influence of socioeconomic deprivation, access to healthcare and physical 
environment on old-age survival in Portugal.

Ribeiro AI(1), Krainski ET, Carvalho MS, De Fátima de Pina M.

Author information:
(1)EPIUnit-Instituto de Saúde Pública, Universidade do Porto; i3S-Instituto de 
Investigação e Inovação em Saúde, Universidade do Porto; INEB-Instituto de 
Engenharia Biomédica, Universidade do Porto; Department of Clinical 
Epidemiology, Predictive Medicine and Public Health, University of Porto Medical 
School. anaisabelribeiro@med.up.pt.

Spatial inequalities in old-age survival exist in Portugal and might be 
associated with factors pertaining to three distinct domains: socioeconomic, 
physical environmental and healthcare. We evaluated the contribution of these 
factors on the old-age survival across Portuguese municipalities deriving a 
surrogate measure of life expectancy, a 10-year survival rate that expresses the 
proportion of the population aged 75-84 years old who reached 85-94. As 
covariates we used two internationally comparable multivariate indexes: the 
European deprivation index and the multiple physical environmental deprivation 
index. A national index was developed to evaluate the access to healthcare. 
Smoothed rates and odds ratios (OR) were estimated using Bayesian spatial 
models. Socioeconomic deprivation was found to be the most relevant factor 
influencing old-age survival in Portugal [women: least deprived areas 
OR=1.132(1.064-1.207); men OR=1.044(1.001- 1.094)] and explained a sizable 
amount of the spatial variance in survival, especially among women. Access to 
healthcare was associated with old-age survival in the univariable model only; 
results lost significance after adjustment for socioeconomic circumstances 
[women: higher access to healthcare OR=1.020(0.973- 1.072); men 
OR=1.021(0.989-1.060)]. Physical environmental deprivation was unrelated with 
old-age survival. In conclusion, socioeconomic deprivation was the most 
important determinant in explaining spatial disparities in old-age survival in 
Portugal, which indicates that policy makers should direct their efforts to 
tackle socioeconomic differentials between regions.

DOI: 10.4081/gh.2017.581
PMID: 29239558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2018 Apr 1;77(4):405-412. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0000000000001610.

Isoniazid Preventive Therapy for People With HIV Who Are Heavy Alcohol Drinkers 
in High TB-/HIV-Burden Countries: A Risk-Benefit Analysis.

Freiman JM(1), Jacobson KR(1)(2), Muyindike WR(3)(4), Horsburgh CR(2), Ellner 
JJ(1), Hahn JA(5), Linas BP(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Section of Infectious Diseases, Boston Medical Center, Boston, MA.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Mbarara University of Science and Technology, 
Mbarara, Uganda.
(4)Mbarara Regional Referral Hospital, Mbarara, Uganda.
(5)Epidemiology, University of California, San Francisco, CA.

BACKGROUND: Isoniazid preventive therapy (IPT) reduces mortality among people 
living with HIV (PLHIV) and is recommended for those without active tuberculosis 
(TB) symptoms. Heavy alcohol use, however, is contraindicated for liver toxicity 
concerns. We evaluated the risks and benefits of IPT at antiretroviral therapy 
(ART) initiation to ART alone for PLHIV who are heavy drinkers in 3 high 
TB-/HIV-burden countries.
METHODS: We developed a Markov simulation model to compare ART alone to ART with 
either 6 or 36 months of IPT for heavy drinking PLHIV enrolling in care in 
Brazil, India, and Uganda. Outcomes included nonfatal toxicity, fatal toxicity, 
life expectancy, TB cases, and TB death.
RESULTS: In this simulation, 6 months of IPT + ART (IPT6) extended life 
expectancy over both ART alone and 36 months of IPT + ART (IPT36) in India and 
Uganda, but ART alone dominated in Brazil in 51.5% of simulations. Toxicity 
occurred in 160/1000 persons on IPT6 and 415/1000 persons on IPT36, with fatal 
toxicity in 8/1000 on IPT6 and 21/1000 on IPT36. Sensitivity analyses favored 
IPT6 in India and Uganda with high toxicity thresholds.
CONCLUSIONS: The benefits of IPT for heavy drinkers outweighed its risks in 
India and Uganda when given for a 6-month course. The toxicity/efficacy 
trade-off was less in Brazil where TB incidence is lower. IPT6 resulted in fatal 
toxicity in 8/1000 people, whereas even higher toxicities of IPT36 negated its 
benefits in all countries. Data to better characterize IPT toxicity among 
HIV-infected drinkers are needed to improve guidance.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0000000000001610
PMCID: PMC5825241
PMID: 29239900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: none to report


204. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2018 Apr;40(3):196-199. doi: 
10.1097/MPH.0000000000001036.

Prevalence of Hypertension (HTN) and Cardiovascular Risk Factors in a 
Hospitalized Pediatric Hemophilia Population.

Alperstein W(1)(2), Corrales-Medina FF(1)(3)(2), Tamariz L(4), Palacio AM(4), 
Davis JA(1)(3)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Hematology-Oncology.
(2)Holtz Children's Hospital, Jackson Memorial Medical Center, Miami, FL.
(3)Hemophilia Treatment Center, University of Miami.
(4)Department of Medicine, Division of Internal Medicine, Miller School of 
Medicine.

Improved life expectancy in hemophilia has led to a greater interest in 
age-related disorders. Hypertension (HTN) as well as cardiovascular disease have 
been increasingly reported in hemophilic adults but there is currently very 
limited data in the pediatric population. We conducted a cross-sectional study 
using data from the 2012 National Health Cost and Utilization Project database 
to determine the prevalence of HTN and associated cardiovascular risk factors in 
a hospitalized pediatric hemophilia population, between the ages of 0 to 21 
years, in comparison with the general pediatric population. The prevalence of 
HTN was significantly higher in children with hemophilia (CWH) in comparison 
with the general pediatric population (1.71% vs. 1.02%, P-value=0.005). When 
adjusting the analysis for sex, the prevalence of HTN in the hemophilia cohort 
remained higher, although not statistically significant (1.52% vs. 1.22%, 
P-value=0.2568). When examining the concomitant presence of ≥1 cardiovascular 
risk factors in the hypertensive subgroups, CWH had a higher prevalence of 
obesity (2.64% vs. 1.32%, P-value <0.0001). Interestingly, diabetes mellitus was 
more prevalent in nonhemophilic children (1.47% vs. 0.56%, P-value=0.0015). 
These data suggest that cardiovascular risk factors need to be closely monitored 
in CWH, and a better preventive strategy is likely needed to identify those 
hemophilic patients at higher risk of developing cardiovascular disease in 
adulthood.

DOI: 10.1097/MPH.0000000000001036
PMID: 29240038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Adv Skin Wound Care. 2018 Jan;31(1):582-595. doi: 
10.1097/01.ASW.0000527576.27489.0f.

Insights into the Pathophysiology of Hypertrophic Scars and Keloids: How Do They 
Differ?

Ghazawi FM(1), Zargham R, Gilardino MS, Sasseville D, Jafarian F.

Author information:
(1)Feras M. Ghazawi, MD, PhD, MSc • Resident Physician • Division of Dermatology 
• University of Ottawa • Ottawa, Ontario, Canada • Faculty of Medicine • McGill 
University • Montreal, Quebec, Canada Ramin Zargham, MD, PhD • Selective 
Surgical Pathology Fellow • Roswell Park Cancer Institute • Buffalo, New York 
Mirko S. Gilardino, MD, MSc • Plastic Surgeon • Division of Plastic and 
Reconstructive Surgery • McGill University Health Centre • Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada Denis Sasseville, MD • Dermatologist • Division of Dermatology • McGill 
University Health Centre • Montreal, Quebec, Canada Fatemeh Jafarian, MD • 
Dermatologist • Division of Dermatology • McGill University Health Centre • 
Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

GENERAL PURPOSE: To provide information about the clinical presentation of 
hypertrophic scars and keloids based on their varied structural components.
TARGET AUDIENCE: This continuing education activity is intended for physicians, 
physician assistants, nurse practitioners, and nurses with an interest in skin 
and wound care.
LEARNING OBJECTIVES/OUTCOMES: After completing this continuing education 
activity, you should be able to: ABSTRACT: Hypertrophic scars and keloids are 
firm, raised, erythematous plaques or nodules that manifest when the cicatrix 
fails to properly heal. They result from pathologic wound healing and often 
cause pain and decreased quality of life. The appearance of such cosmetically 
unappealing scars affects the confidence and self-esteem of many patients. These 
scars can also cause dysfunction by interfering with flexion and extension 
across joints. Both possess some unique and distinct histochemical and 
physiologic characteristics that set them apart morphologically and at the 
molecular level. While these entities have been the focus of research for many 
years, differentiating between them remains challenging for clinicians.This 
article reviews the clinical presentation of aberrant scars and illustrates how 
they can be differentiated. It outlines their pathophysiology and emphasizes the 
unique molecular mechanisms underlying each disorder. It also examines how 
altered expression levels and the distribution of several factors may contribute 
to their unique clinical characteristics and presentation. Further research is 
needed to elucidate optimal treatments and preventive measures for these types 
of aberrant scarring.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ASW.0000527576.27489.0f
PMID: 29240586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Adv Skin Wound Care. 2018 Jan;31(1):1-5. doi: 
10.1097/01.ASW.0000527288.35840.0a.

Preventive Effect of a Microclimate-Regulating System on Pressure Ulcer 
Development: A Prospective, Randomized Controlled Trial in Dutch Nursing Homes.

van Leen M(1), Halfens R, Schols J.

Author information:
(1)In the Netherlands, Martin van Leen, MD, PhD, is a Physician, Martin's 
Geriatric & Wound Consultancy, and Researcher, Faculty of Health, Medicine, and 
Life Sciences, Maastricht University, Maastricht; Ruud Halfens, PhD, is an 
Associate Professor, Faculty of Health, Medicine, and Life Sciences, Maastricht 
University, Maastricht; Steven Hovius, MD, PhD, is a Professor, Department of 
Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Erasmus University, Rotterdam; and Jos 
Schols, MD, PhD, is a Professor, Faculty of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences, 
Maastricht University, Maastricht.

OBJECTIVE: Prevention of pressure ulcers (PrUs) is based on relieving pressure, 
diminishing shear stress, and controlling the skin's microclimate. Based on the 
recommendations in the most recent guideline for prevention of PrUs, a 
pressure-relieving, shear stress-diminishing, and microclimate-controlling skin 
interface multilayer support system (Bedcare; Sense Textile, 's-Hertogenbosch, 
the Netherlands) has been developed for use on top of a viscoelastic foam 
mattress (Formafoam, Kabelfabriek Eupen, Belgium). The aim of this study was to 
test the PrU preventive effect of this system compared with a viscoelastic foam 
mattress alone.
METHODS: A multicenter, prospective, randomized controlled trial was executed in 
21 nursing homes in the Netherlands. Residents with a Braden score less than 16, 
a life expectancy of more than 3 months, and no PrUs during the last 3 months 
were asked to participate and included after informed consent. Residents were 
divided into 2 groups. The control group received a new high-quality 
viscoelastic foam mattress covered with a cotton sheet. The intervention group 
received the same new mattress, in combination with the newly developed 
multilayer system. Research nurses followed the participating residents for 12 
weeks. The outcome parameter was the development of PrUs.
RESULTS: Two hundred six residents participated in the study. Both groups had 
comparable demographics (eg, age, Braden score, care dependency, incontinence). 
In the control group, 5% of the residents developed a category 2, 3, or 4 PrU, 
and 9% in the intervention group did. These results were not statistically 
significant.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that the multilayer system (Mini Overlay System, 
barrier mattress cover, and Stay and Transfer Sheet), when used as an integral 
system and in combination with a viscoelastic foam mattress, has no added value 
over the viscoelastic foam mattress/cotton sheet.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ASW.0000527288.35840.0a
PMID: 29240594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. PLoS One. 2017 Dec 14;12(12):e0189245. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0189245. 
eCollection 2017.

Biopsychosocial predictors of perceived life expectancy in a national sample of 
older men and women.

Kobayashi LC(1)(2), Beeken RJ(2)(3), Meisel SF(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies, Harvard T. H. Chan 
School of Public Health, Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States of America.
(2)Department of Behavioural Science and Health, University College London, 
London, United Kingdom.
(3)Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, University of Leeds, Leeds, United 
Kingdom.
(4)Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, King's College London, 
London, United Kingdom.

Perceived life expectancy (PLE) is predictive of mortality risk in older adults, 
but the factors that may contribute to mental conceptions of PLE are unknown. We 
aimed to describe the sociodemographic, biomedical, behavioral, and 
psychological predictors of self-reported PLE estimates among older English 
adults. Data were from 6662 adults aged 50-79 years in the population-based 
English Longitudinal Study of Ageing (cross-sectional sample from 2012/13). PLE 
was assessed in the face-to-face study interview ("What are the chances you will 
live to be age x or more?" where x = current age plus 10-15 years). Responses 
were categorized as 'low' (0-49%), 'medium' (50-74%), and 'high' (75-100%). 
Adjusted prevalence ratios (PRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for low vs. 
high PLE were estimated using population-weighted modified Poisson regression 
with robust error variance. Overall, 1208/6662 (18%) participants reported a low 
PLE, 2806/6662 (42%) reported a medium PLE, and 2648/6662 (40%) reported a high 
PLE. The predictors of reporting a low PLE included older age (PR = 1.64; 95% 
CI: 1.50-1.76 per 10 years), male sex (PR = 1.14; 95% CI: 1.02-1.26), being a 
smoker (PR = 1.39; 95% CI: 1.22-1.59 vs. never/former smoker), and having a 
diagnosis of cancer or diabetes. A low sense of control over life was associated 
with low PLE, as was low satisfaction with life and worse self-rated health. 
Those with a higher perceived social standing were less likely to report a low 
PLE (PR = 0.90; 95% CI: 0.87-0.93 per 10-point increase, out of 100). This study 
provides novel insight into potential influences on older adults' expectations 
of their longevity, including aspects of psychological well-being. These results 
should be corroborated to better determine their implications for health-related 
decision-making, planning, and behavior among older adults.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0189245
PMCID: PMC5730115
PMID: 29240778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


208. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2017 Dec 12;73(1):57-58. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glx228.

Taking Obesity in Older Adults Seriously.

Kritchevsky SB(1).

Author information:
(1)Sticht Center for Healthy Aging and Alzheimer's Prevention, Wake Forest 
School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glx228
PMID: 29240912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. ChemSusChem. 2018 Mar 9;11(5):975-984. doi: 10.1002/cssc.201701957. Epub
2018  Jan 26.

Sustainable Carbon/Carbon Supercapacitors Operating Down to -40 °C in Aqueous 
Electrolyte Made with Cholinium Salt.

Abbas Q(1), Béguin F(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Chemistry and Technical Electrochemistry, Poznan University of 
Technology, Berdychowo 4, 60-965, Poznan, Poland.

Cholinium chloride at a concentration of 5 mol kg-1 in water is proposed as a 
low-cost and environmentally friendly aqueous electrolyte, enabling extension of 
the operating range of carbon/carbon supercapacitors (SCs) down to -40 °C. This 
solution has a pH close to neutrality (pH 6.1) and high conductivity of 
88 mS cm-1 at 24 °C. The supercapacitors demonstrate a high capacitance of 
126 F g-1 (per mass of one electrode) and long life span at voltages up to 
1.5 V. At -40 °C, the carbon/carbon SCs display excellent electrochemical 
characteristics with only slightly reduced capacitance of 106 F g-1 and 
negligible ohmic losses. As compared to previous works, where antifreezing 
additives were introduced in traditional neutral electrolytes, the low 
solubility of the salt and related poor conductivity of the solution is no 
longer an issue, which makes cholinium salt aqueous solutions very promising for 
SCs operating at sub-ambient temperature conditions.

© 2018 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/cssc.201701957
PMID: 29240966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2017 Dec;142(25):1901-1906. doi:
10.1055/s-0043-117533.  Epub 2017 Dec 14.

["Life is short". Rejuvenation and immortality from a historical perspective].

[Article in German]

Schäfer D.

To be young and immortal: That is the dream of humanity. Medical and civilizing 
progress have led to a life expectancy unthinkable a few centuries ago. 
Physicians wonder where it will all end. And after all, does it make sense to 
live forever? A look back in history and literature can help to relativize 
(post) modern utopias.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0043-117533
PMID: 29241284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts of 
interest in this work.


211. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2017;161:D2323.

[Patients also have responsibility for prevention].

[Article in Dutch]

Smit C(1).

Author information:
(1)VSOP/EGAN, Hoofddorp.

Patient organisations should be more visible in the societal debate about 
prevention, alongside fulfilling their more traditional tasks such as education, 
peer support and lobbying for their interests. Despite appreciating the medical 
care he received, the author also personally experienced a lack of attention for 
life-style interventions (e.g. a salt-free diet, exercise) in the care provided. 
Since 2012, awareness among European patient groups is rising about the 
importance of nutrition, which is evolving from being considered as a simple 
necessity to being an essential component of disease management. EU patient 
groups are participating in the EU-wide national 'Optimal Nutritional Care for 
All' campaigns. They perceive prevention as a way to decrease lifestyle diseases 
in the long term, and to economise on health-care costs. Dedicated, enthusiastic 
politicians are required if this transformation is to take place; they also need 
reduce the socio-economic differences in society that negatively impact on 
health and life-expectancy.

PMID: 29241471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Am J Prev Med. 2018 Feb;54(2):237-247. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2017.10.027.
Epub  2017 Dec 11.

Engaging Patients in Decisions About Cancer Screening: Exploring the Decision 
Journey Through the Use of a Patient Portal.

Woolf SH(1), Krist AH(2), Lafata JE(3), Jones RM(4), Lehman RR(5), Hochheimer 
CJ(6), Sabo RT(6), Frosch DL(7), Zikmund-Fisher BJ(8), Longo DR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine and Population Health, Virginia Commonwealth 
University, Richmond, Virginia. Electronic address: swoolf@vcu.edu.
(2)Department of Family Medicine and Population Health, Virginia Commonwealth 
University, Richmond, Virginia.
(3)Department of Health Behavior and Policy, Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer 
Center and Eshelman School of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina, Chapel 
Hill, North Carolina.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Temple University, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(5)United Network for Organ Sharing, Richmond, Virgina.
(6)Department of Biostatistics, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, 
Virginia.
(7)Palo Alto Medical Foundation Research Institute, Palo Alto, California.
(8)Department of Health Behavior and Health Education, University of Michigan 
School of Public Health, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

INTRODUCTION: Engaging patients to make informed choices is paramount but 
difficult in busy practices. This study sought to engage patients outside the 
clinical setting to better understand how they approach cancer screening 
decisions, including their primary concerns and their preferences for finalizing 
their decision.
METHODS: Twelve primary care practices offering patients an online personal 
health record invited eligible patients to complete a 17-item online interactive 
module. Among 11,458 registered users, invitations to complete the module were 
sent to adults aged 50-74 years who were overdue for colorectal cancer screening 
and to women aged 40-49 years and men aged 55-69 who had not undergone a recent 
mammogram or prostate-specific antigen test, respectively.
RESULTS: The module was started by 2,355 patients and completed by 903 patients. 
Most respondents (76.8%) knew they were eligible for screening. Preferred next 
steps were talking to the clinician (76.6%), reading/research (28.6%), and 
consulting trusted friends/family (16.4%). Priority topics included how much 
screening improves life expectancy, comparative test performance, and the 
prevalence/health risks of the cancer. Leading fears were getting cancer/delayed 
detection (79.2%), abnormal results (40.5%), and testing complications (39.1%), 
the last referring to false test results, medical complications, or unnecessary 
treatments. Men eligible for prostate-specific antigen screening were more 
likely than women eligible for mammography to express concerns about testing 
complications and to prioritize weighing pros and cons over gut feelings 
(p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Although this sample was predisposed to screening, most patients 
wanted help in finalizing their decision. Many wanted to weigh the pros and cons 
and expressed fears of potential harms from screening. Understanding how 
patients approach decisions may help design more effective engagement 
strategies.

Copyright © 2017 American Journal of Preventive Medicine. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2017.10.027
PMCID: PMC7144024
PMID: 29241715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Lancet Haematol. 2018 Jan;5(1):e34-e43. doi: 10.1016/S2352-3026(17)30228-4.
Epub  2017 Dec 11.

Eltrombopag for advanced myelodysplastic syndromes or acute myeloid leukaemia 
and severe thrombocytopenia (ASPIRE): a randomised, placebo-controlled, phase 2 
trial.

Mittelman M(1), Platzbecker U(2), Afanasyev B(3), Grosicki S(4), Wong RSM(5), 
Anagnostopoulos A(6), Brenner B(7), Denzlinger C(8), Rossi G(9), Nagler A(10), 
Garcia-Delgado R(11), Portella MSO(12), Zhu Z(12), Selleslag D(13).

Author information:
(1)Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Sackler Medical Faculty, Tel Aviv 
University, Tel Aviv, Israel. Electronic address: moshemt@tlvmc.gov.il.
(2)Universitätsklinikum Carl Gustav Carus, Dresden, Germany.
(3)Pavlov State Medical University, St Petersburg, Russia.
(4)Silesian Medical University, Katowice, Poland.
(5)Sir YK Pao Centre for Cancer & Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, 
Prince of Wales Hospital, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, NT, Hong 
Kong, China.
(6)G Papanikolaou General Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(7)Rambam Medical Center, Technion, Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, 
Israel.
(8)Marienhospital Stuttgart, Stuttgart, Germany.
(9)Azienda Ospedaliera Spedali Civili, Brescia, Italy.
(10)Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(11)Hospital Virgen de la Victoria, Málaga, Spain.
(12)Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, NJ, USA.
(13)AZ St-Jan Brugge AV, Bruges, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Thrombocytopenia is a life-threatening complication in patients with 
advanced myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). In 
this study (ASPIRE), we aimed to assess eltrombopag, an oral thrombopoietin 
receptor agonist, for thrombocytopenia (grade 4) treatment in adult patients 
with advanced MDS or AML.
METHODS: ASPIRE consisted of an open-label, double-blind phase for 8 weeks and a 
randomised, double-blind phase (parts 1 and 2, reported here) for 12 weeks, and 
an open-label extension (part 3). Eligible patients were men and women aged 18 
years or older, with intermediate-2 or high-risk MDS or AML, with bone marrow 
blasts of 50% or less, and had either grade 4 thrombocytopenia due to bone 
marrow insufficiency (platelet counts <25 × 109 per L) or grade 4 
thrombocytopenia before platelet transfusion, with 25 × 109 platelets per L or 
greater after transfusion. Additionally, eligible patients had at least one of 
the following within the screening period of 4 weeks: platelet transfusion, 
symptomatic bleeding, or platelet count of less than 10 × 109 per L. During part 
1, patients received eltrombopag, and dose-escalation criteria for part 2 were 
determined. In part 2, we randomly allocated patients 2:1 using an interactive 
voice-response system to eltrombopag or placebo, stratified by baseline platelet 
count (<10 × 109 platelets per L vs ≥10 × 109 platelets per L) and disease (MDS 
vs AML). In parts 1 and 2, patients received supportive standard of care and 
initiated eltrombopag or placebo at 100 mg per day (50 mg per day for patients 
of east-Asian heritage) to a maximum of 300 mg per day (150 mg per day for 
patients of east-Asian heritage). The part 2 primary objective was assessed by a 
composite primary endpoint of clinically relevant thrombocytopenic events (CRTE) 
during weeks 5-12, defined as one of the following events, either alone or in 
combination: grade 3 or worse haemorrhagic adverse events; platelet counts of 
less than 10 × 109 per L; or platelet transfusions. Efficacy analyses were based 
on intention to treat; clinically meaningful efficacy was defined as 30% 
absolute difference between groups. This trial is registered with 
ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT01440374.
FINDINGS: In part 1, 17 patients received eltrombopag and 11 patients completed 
treatment; four experienced significantly increased platelet counts, and ten had 
reduced platelet transfusion requirements. In part 2 we randomly allocated 145 
patients to receive supportive care plus eltrombopag (n=98) or placebo (n=47); 
similar proportions had MDS (50 [51%] patients to eltrombopag, 22 (47%) patients 
to placebo) or AML (48 [49%] patients to eltrombopag, 25 [53%] patients to 
placebo). Average weekly CRTE proportions from weeks 5-12 were significantly 
lower with eltrombopag (54% [95% CI 43-64]) than with placebo (69% [57-80], odds 
ratio [OR] 0·20, 95% CI 0·05-0·87; p=0·032) although the difference between 
treatment groups was less than 30%. The most common grade 3 and grade 4 adverse 
events were fatigue (six [6%] in the eltrombopag group and one [2%] in the 
placebo group), hypokalaemia (six [6%] and two [4%]), pneumonia (five [5%] and 
five [11%]), and febrile neutropenia (five [5%] and six [13%]). Serious adverse 
events were reported in 56 (58%) eltrombopag-treated patients and 32 (68%) 
placebo-treated patients. Seven eltrombopag recipients and two placebo 
recipients had serious adverse events that were suspected to be study 
drug-related (eltrombopag: acute kidney injury, arterial thrombosis, bone pain, 
diarrhoea, myocardial infarction, pyrexia, retinal vein occlusion, n=1 each; 
placebo: vomiting, white blood cell count increased, n=1 each). Two eltrombopag 
recipients (arterial thrombosis n=1; myocardial infarction n=1) and no placebo 
