death. The average survival expectancy, ranges from 3 to 5 years from diagnosis, 
and the available medicines do not lead to healing. The progression of IPF lead 
to a decline in forced vital capacity (FVC), dyspnea, cough, continuous sleep 
interruptions, resulting in increased fatigue and deteriorating quality of life 
(QOL), progressive limitation of daily life activities and social life, with 
repercussions on psychological and emotional well-being, aggravated by anxiety, 
loss of sense of self-confidence and depression. The aim of the study was to 
evaluate how the support groups influence the psychological well-being of people 
with IPF and their family members.
METHODS: A pre-post test pilot study with a single group was conducted in a 
university hospital in Northern Italy, a centre for diagnosis and treatment of 
IPF. A support group was conducted by a nurse and entirely dedicated to people 
with IPF and their family members. Eighteen participants were enrolled in the 
support group. To measure the changes in psychological well-being was chosen the 
Psychological General Well-Being Index (PGWBI), which was administered at the 
time of enrolment to the group and after six months of attendance.
RESULTS: Even if the effect is not statistically significant, the paired t-test 
showed that the participation in a support group conducted by a nurse, could 
increase psychological well-being in all of its dimensions: anxiety, depression, 
positivity, self-control, overall health, and vitality.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the null association, the increase of psychological 
well-being, closely related to the quality of life, indicates the need to 
further studies. In the absence of effective pharmacological treatments for 
healing, the support groups represent an opportunity for the wellbeing of the 
IPF patients and their caregivers.

DOI: 10.23750/abm.v88i5-S.6870
PMCID: PMC6357579
PMID: 29189700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Rev Med Chil. 2017 Aug;145(8):1047-1053. doi:
10.4067/s0034-98872017000801047.

[The association of schizophrenia with chronic non transmissible diseases].

[Article in Spanish]

Orellana G(1), Rodríguez M(2), González N(2), Durán E(2).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Psiquiatría, Sede Oriente, Escuela de Medicina, Facultad de 
Medicina, Universidad de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(2)Departamento de Psiquiatría, Sede Sur., Escuela de Medicina. Facultad de 
Medicina, Universidad de Chile, Santiago, Chile.

Erratum in
    Rev Med Chil. 2017 Oct;145(10 ):1364.

The life expectancy of patients with schizophrenia (SCH) is 11 to 20 years less 
than the general population. There is an association between SCH and various 
diseases and chronic conditions, highlighting the cardio-metabolic diseases. 
This association has been attributed to the use of antipsychotics, however, 
evidence has also shown intrinsic susceptibility of schizophrenic patients the 
development of chronic conditions. This review aims to update knowledge about 
chronic conditions such as cardiometabolic risk and sleep, bone and kidney 
disorders related to SCH. These patients have a high prevalence of risk 
behaviors, including smoking and poor diet. They have a worse metabolic profile 
than the general population and a greater likelihood of developing metabolic 
syndrome, diabetes and cardiovascular disease. SCH has also been associated with 
other chronic diseases such as osteoporosis and chronic kidney disease. The high 
prevalence of these comorbidities in schizophrenic population is not explained 
solely by the antipsychotic treatment, therefore intrinsic mechanisms associated 
to SCH are postulated to be associated with these conditions. This new 
information requires a change in the multidisciplinary medical approach for the 
study and management of schizophrenic patients.

DOI: 10.4067/s0034-98872017000801047
PMID: 29189863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Brain Struct Funct. 2018 Mar;223(2):545-567. doi: 10.1007/s00429-017-1571-3. 
Epub 2017 Nov 30.

Complementary research models and methods to study axonal regeneration in the 
vertebrate retinofugal system.

Bollaerts I(1), Veys L(1), Geeraerts E(1), Andries L(1), De Groef L(1)(2), 
Buyens T(1), Salinas-Navarro M(1), Moons L(3), Van Hove I(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Neural Circuit Development and Regeneration Research Group, Animal Physiology 
and Neurobiology Section, Department of Biology, KU Leuven, Naamsestraat 61, Box 
2464, 3000, Leuven, Belgium.
(2)Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Department of Neurosciences, KU Leuven, 3000, 
Leuven, Belgium.
(3)Neural Circuit Development and Regeneration Research Group, Animal Physiology 
and Neurobiology Section, Department of Biology, KU Leuven, Naamsestraat 61, Box 
2464, 3000, Leuven, Belgium. Lieve.moons@kuleuven.be.

Due to the lack of axonal regeneration, age-related deterioration in the central 
nervous system (CNS) poses a significant burden on the wellbeing of a growing 
number of elderly. To overcome this regenerative failure and to improve the 
patient's life quality, the search for novel regenerative treatment strategies 
requires valuable (animal) models and techniques. As an extension of the CNS, 
the retinofugal system, consisting of retinal ganglion cells that send their 
axons along the optic nerve to the visual brain areas, has importantly 
contributed to the current knowledge on mechanisms underlying the restricted 
regenerative capacities and to the development of novel strategies to enhance 
axonal regeneration. It provides an extensively used research tool, not only in 
amniote vertebrates including rodents, but also in anamniote vertebrates, such 
as zebrafish. Indeed, the latter show robust regeneration capacities, thereby 
providing insights into the factors that contribute to axonal regrowth and 
proper guidance, complementing studies in mammals. This review provides an 
integrative and critical overview of the classical and state-of-the-art models 
and methods that have been employed in the retinofugal system to advance our 
knowledge on the signaling pathways underlying the restricted versus robust 
axonal regeneration in rodents and zebrafish, respectively. In vitro, ex vivo 
and in vivo models and techniques to improve the visualization and analysis of 
regenerating axons are summarized. As such, the retinofugal system is presented 
as a valuable model to further facilitate research on axonal regeneration and to 
open novel therapeutic avenues for CNS pathologies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-017-1571-3
PMID: 29189905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. J Endocrinol Invest. 2018 May;41(5):509-521. doi: 10.1007/s40618-017-0799-3. 
Epub 2017 Nov 30.

NAFLD/NASH in patients with type 2 diabetes and related treatment options.

Radaelli MG(1), Martucci F(1), Perra S(1), Accornero S(1), Castoldi G(2), 
Lattuada G(1), Manzoni G(1), Perseghin G(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina e Riabilitazione, Policlinico di Monza, Via Amati 
111, 20900, Monza, MB, Italy.
(2)Dipartimento di Medicina e Chirurgia, Università degli Studi di Milano 
Bicocca, Milan, MI, Italy.
(3)Dipartimento di Medicina e Riabilitazione, Policlinico di Monza, Via Amati 
111, 20900, Monza, MB, Italy. gianluca.perseghin@policlinicodimonza.it.
(4)Dipartimento di Medicina e Chirurgia, Università degli Studi di Milano 
Bicocca, Milan, MI, Italy. gianluca.perseghin@policlinicodimonza.it.

Type 2 diabetes may reduce life expectancy and patients' quality of life due to 
its micro- and macro-vascular complications and to the higher risk of several 
types of cancer. An emerging important factor is represented by the hepatic 
involvement; it is recognized that excessive hepatic fat accumulation represents 
a typical feature of diabetic patients and that it also plays an important 
pathogenic role. It is now evident that non-alcoholic fatty liver disease 
(NAFLD), generally perceived as a benign condition, may have on the contrary an 
important deleterious impact for diabetic patients increasing the risk to 
develop cardiovascular complications but also serious hepatic diseases, in 
particular non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), cirrhosis and hepatocellular 
carcinoma. Lifestyle intervention, bariatric surgery and several drug therapies 
have now accumulated evidence of efficacy in treating NASH. On the other hand, 
their durability and safety in the long-term is yet to be proven and their use 
may be sometimes associated with side effects or higher risk of adverse events 
limiting the regular administration or contraindicating it. Professional health 
care providers, building awareness about the importance of these hepatic 
complications, should put more efforts in primary prevention using a behavioral 
therapy needing a multidisciplinary approach, in secondary prevention applying 
on a regular basis in the clinical setting available predictive algorithms to 
identify the patients at higher cardiovascular and hepatologic risk, and in 
tertiary prevention treating, when not contraindicated, the diabetic patients 
preferentially with drugs with proven benefit on NAFLD/NASH.

DOI: 10.1007/s40618-017-0799-3
PMID: 29189999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Mult Scler Relat Disord. 2018 Jan;19:109-114. doi:
10.1016/j.msard.2017.10.019.  Epub 2017 Nov 13.

Common comorbidities and survival in MS: Risk for stroke, type 1 diabetes and 
infections.

Murtonen A(1), Kurki S(2), Hänninen K(3), Soilu-Hänninen M(4), Sumelahti ML(5).

Author information:
(1)University of Tampere, 33014- TaY, Finland and Tampere University Hospital, 
Department of Neurology, PL 2000, 33521 Tampere, Finland. Electronic address: 
Murtonen.Annukka.S@student.uta.fi.
(2)Auria Biobank, University of Turku and Turku University Hospital, PL 52, 
20521 Turku, Finland. Electronic address: Samu.Kurki@tyks.fi.
(3)Turku University Hospital, Division of Clinical Neurosciences and University 
of Turku, PL 52, 20521 Turku, Finland. Electronic address: 
Katariina.Hanninen@utu.fi.
(4)Turku University Hospital, Division of Clinical Neurosciences and University 
of Turku, PL 52, 20521 Turku, Finland. Electronic address: 
Merja.Soilu-Hanninen@tyks.fi.
(5)University of Tampere, 33014- TaY, Finland and Tampere University Hospital, 
Department of Neurology, PL 2000, 33521 Tampere, Finland. Electronic address: 
Marja-Liisa.Sumelahti@uta.fi.

BACKGROUND: Survival in MS has increased during the era of disease modifying 
therapies, but life expectancy in MS patients is still reduced by several years. 
Increased risk for common comorbidities related to brain health, such as risk 
for circulatory diseases have been reported in MS and could affect survival. In 
this paper, we studied age- and gender adjusted risks for circulatory diseases 
and related disorders, and their impact on overall MS survival in population of 
Southwest Finland.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The ICD-10 codes for hospital visits were searched from 
the administrative data pool from 1.1.2004 up to 31.12.2012 for the resident MS 
and control cases at the Hospital District of Southwest Finland. The MS 
population under study consisted of prevalent cases in 1.1.2004 and new cases 
from 1.1.2004 followed up to death or 31.12.2012. Patient documents were 
scrutinized to confirm the MS diagnosis (G 35) by the McDonald´s criteria and to 
confirm the diagnoses and causes of death for the cerebro- and cardiovascular 
diagnoses under study. The randomly chosen 10-fold control population was 
matched by birth year and gender to calculate the coincident risks (odds ratio, 
OR) with 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) and another separate control 
population from the same patient pool was used to verify the stability of the 
results. P-values were calculated using Pearson's χ2 test. The Kaplan- Meier 
analysis log rank test was applied to study survival.
RESULTS: During the follow-up 1074 confirmed MS cases were treated in the 
hospital district, including the deceased cases after 1.1.2004 (5.9%). The 
probability of survival was 82.4 years among MS and 85.6 years among the control 
cases, log rank p < 0.001. The survival disadvantage within MS was associated 
with comorbidity for circulatory disease codes in ICD -10: I06-I71, log rank p < 
0.001. The specific risk for ischemic and haemorrhagic stroke was significant 
with high OR of 1.49 (95% CI 1.03- 2.35) and 2.5 (1.24-5.06) respectively. The 
two-fold risk for type 1 diabetes in MS was significant, OR 2.1 (1.3-3.36). The 
main causes of death among the MS cases were infections and the coincident high 
risk for several infections was significant. There was no difference in the risk 
for acute myocardial infarct, transient ischemic attack, atrial fibrillation, 
hypertension, or obesity in comparison with the control cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the high risk for stroke in this MS population and the 
observed complexity among the coincident common risk factors for circulatory 
diseases, the high risk for type 1 diabetes and common infections raise a need 
to recognize patients at risk with these conditions and with the other known 
risk factors such as metabolic syndrome and smoking. The survival disadvantage 
related to circulatory diseases observed in general population is true also in 
MS and should be recognized to reduce the burden of disease and premature 
mortality in MS.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.msard.2017.10.019
PMID: 29190573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Neurosurg Focus. 2017 Dec;43(6):E2. doi: 10.3171/2017.9.FOCUS17494.

Potential of predictive computer models for preoperative patient selection to 
enhance overall quality-adjusted life years gained at 2-year follow-up: a 
simulation in 234 patients with adult spinal deformity.

Oh T(1), Scheer JK(2), Smith JS(3), Hostin R(4), Robinson C(5), Gum JL(6), 
Schwab F(7), Hart RA(8), Lafage V(7), Burton DC(9), Bess S(10), Protopsaltis 
T(7), Klineberg EO(11), Shaffrey CI(3), Ames CP(1); International Spine Study 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of California, San Francisco, 
California.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Illinois at Chicago, Illinois.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Virginia Health System, 
Charlottesville, Virginia.
(4)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Baylor Scoliosis Center, Plano.
(5)Baylor Scott & White Health, Center for Clinical Effectiveness, Dallas, 
Texas.
(6)Norton Leatherman Spine Center, Louisville, Kentucky.
(7)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, New York University Hospital for Joint 
Diseases, New York, New York.
(8)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Oregon Health & Science University, 
Portland, Oregon.
(9)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Kansas Medical Center, 
Kansas City, Kansas.
(10)Rocky Mountain Hospital for Children, Denver, Colorado; and.
(11)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of California, Davis, 
California.

OBJECTIVE Patients with adult spinal deformity (ASD) experience significant 
quality of life improvements after surgery. Treatment, however, is expensive and 
complication rates are high. Predictive analytics has the potential to use many 
variables to make accurate predictions in large data sets. A validated minimum 
clinically important difference (MCID) model has the potential to assist in 
patient selection, thereby improving outcomes and, potentially, 
cost-effectiveness. METHODS The present study was a retrospective analysis of a 
multiinstitutional database of patients with ASD. Inclusion criteria were as 
follows: age ≥ 18 years, radiographic evidence of ASD, 2-year follow-up, and 
preoperative Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) > 15. Forty-six variables were used 
for model training: demographic data, radiographic parameters, surgical 
variables, and results on the health-related quality of life questionnaire. 
Patients were grouped as reaching a 2-year ODI MCID (+MCID) or not (-MCID). An 
ensemble of 5 different bootstrapped decision trees was constructed using the 
C5.0 algorithm. Internal validation was performed via 70:30 data split for 
training/testing. Model accuracy and area under the curve (AUC) were calculated. 
The mean quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and QALYs gained at 2 years were 
calculated and discounted at 3.5% per year. The QALYs were compared between 
patients in the +MCID and -MCID groups. RESULTS A total of 234 patients met 
inclusion criteria (+MCID 129, -MCID 105). Sixty-nine patients (29.5%) were 
included for model testing. Predicted versus actual results were 50 versus 40 
for +MCID and 19 versus 29 for -MCID (i.e., 10 patients were misclassified). 
Model accuracy was 85.5%, with 0.96 AUC. Predicted results showed that patients 
in the +MCID group had significantly greater 2-year mean QALYs (p = 0.0057) and 
QALYs gained (p = 0.0002). CONCLUSIONS A successful model with 85.5% accuracy 
and 0.96 AUC was constructed to predict which patients would reach ODI MCID. The 
patients in the +MCID group had significantly higher mean 2-year QALYs and QALYs 
gained. This study provides proof of concept for using predictive modeling 
techniques to optimize patient selection in complex spine surgery.

DOI: 10.3171/2017.9.FOCUS17494
PMID: 29191094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Scand J Public Health. 2018 Feb;46(1):124-131. doi: 10.1177/1403494817695911.
 Epub 2017 Mar 8.

Decennial trends and inequalities in healthy life expectancy: The HUNT Study, 
Norway.

Storeng SH(1), Krokstad S(2)(3), Westin S(1), Sund ER(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Public Health and Nursing, Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, NTNU, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, 
Norway.
(2)2 HUNT Research Centre, Department of Public Health and Nursing, Faculty of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, NTNU, Norwegian University of Science and 
Technology, Levanger, Norway.
(3)3 Levanger Hospital, Nord-Trøndelag Hospital Trust, Norway.
(4)4 Faculty of Nursing and Health Sciences, Nord University, Levanger, Norway.

AIMS: Norway is experiencing a rising life expectancy combined with an 
increasing dependency ratio - the ratio of those outside over those within the 
working force. To provide data relevant for future health policy we wanted to 
study trends in total and healthy life expectancy in a Norwegian population over 
three decades (1980s, 1990s and 2000s), both overall and across gender and 
educational groups.
METHODS: Data were obtained from the HUNT Study, and the Norwegian Educational 
Database. We calculated total life expectancy and used the Sullivan method to 
calculate healthy life expectancies based on self-rated health and self-reported 
longstanding limiting illness. The change in health expectancies was decomposed 
into mortality and disability effects.
RESULTS: During three consecutive decades we found an increase in life 
expectancy for 30-year-olds (~7 years) and expected lifetime in self-rated good 
health (~6 years), but time without longstanding limiting illness increased less 
(1.5 years). Women could expect to live longer than men, but the extra life 
years for females were spent in poor self-rated health and with longstanding 
limiting illness. Differences in total life expectancy between educational 
groups decreased, whereas differences in expected lifetime in self-rated good 
health and lifetime without longstanding limiting illness increased.
CONCLUSIONS: The increase in total life expectancy was accompanied by an 
increasing number of years spent in good self-rated health but more years with 
longstanding limiting illness. This suggests increasing health care needs for 
people with chronic diseases, given an increasing number of elderly. 
Socioeconomic health inequalities remain a challenge for increasing pensioning 
age.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494817695911
PMID: 29191110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Waste Manag Res. 2018 Jan;36(1):79-85. doi: 10.1177/0734242X17744039. Epub
2017  Nov 30.

The impact of socioeconomic factors on municipal solid waste generation in São 
Paulo, Brazil.

Vieira VHAM(1), Matheus DR(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Environmental Science and Technology Graduate Program, Federal University 
of ABC, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)2 Centre of Engineering, Modelling and Applied Social Sciences, Federal 
University of ABC, São Paulo, Brazil.

Social factors have not been sufficiently explored in municipal solid waste 
management studies. Latin America has produced even fewer studies with this 
approach; technical and economic investigations have prevailed. We explored the 
impacts of socioeconomic factors on municipal solid waste generation in Greater 
Sao Paulo, which includes 39 municipalities. We investigated the relations 
between municipal solid waste generation and social factors by Pearson's 
correlation coefficient. The Student's t-test (at p ← 0.01) proved significance, 
and further regression analysis was performed with significant factors. We 
considered 10 socioeconomic factors: population, rural population, density, life 
expectancy, education (secondary, high and undergraduate level), income per 
capita, inequality and human development. A later multicollinearity analysis 
resulted in the determination of inequality (rp = 0.625) and income per capita 
(rp = 0.607) as major drivers. The results showed the relevance of considering 
social aspects in municipal solid waste management and isolated inequality as an 
important factor in planning. Inequality must be used as a complementary factor 
to income, rather than being used exclusively. Inequality may explain 
differences of waste generation between areas with similar incomes because of 
consumption patterns. Therefore, unequal realities demand unequal measures to 
avoid exacerbation, for example, pay-as-you-throw policies instead of uniform 
fees. Unequal realities also highlight the importance of tiering policies beyond 
the waste sector, such as sustainable consumption.

DOI: 10.1177/0734242X17744039
PMID: 29191152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Lung Cancer. 2017 Oct;112:47-56. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2017.08.001. Epub
2017  Aug 5.

Mig-6 deficiency cooperates with oncogenic Kras to promote mouse lung 
tumorigenesis.

Liu J(1), Cho SN(2), Wu SP(1), Jin N(2), Moghaddam SJ(3), Gilbert JL(4), Wistuba 
I(5), DeMayo FJ(6).

Author information:
(1)Reproductive & Developmental Biology Laboratory, National Institute of 
Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS), Research Triangle Park, NC, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX, USA.
(3)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, University of Texas, M.D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(4)Department of Biology, Maynooth University, Maynooth, Co. Kildare, Ireland.
(5)Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, University of Texas, M.D. 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(6)Reproductive & Developmental Biology Laboratory, National Institute of 
Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS), Research Triangle Park, NC, USA. 
Electronic address: francesco.demayo@nih.gov.

OBJECTIVES: Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer related deaths worldwide 
and mutation activating KRAS is one of the most frequent mutations found in lung 
adenocarcinoma. Identifying regulators of KRAS may aid in the development of 
therapies to treat this disease. The mitogen-induced gene 6, MIG-6, is a small 
adaptor protein modulating signaling in cells to regulate the growth and 
differentiation in multiple tissues. Here, we investigated the role of Mig-6 in 
regulating adenocarcinoma progression in the lungs of genetically engineered 
mice with activation of Kras.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using the CCSPCre mouse to specifically activate 
expression of the oncogenic KrasG12D in Club cells, we investigated the 
expression of Mig-6 in CCSPCreKrasG12D-induced lung tumors. To determine the 
role of Mig-6 in KrasG12D-induced lung tumorigenesis, Mig-6 was conditionally 
ablated in the Club cells by breeding Mig6f/f mice to CCSPCreKrasG12D mice, 
yielding CCSPCreMig-6d/dKrasG12D mice (Mig-6d/dKrasG12D).
RESULTS: We found that Mig-6 expression is decreased in CCSPCreKrasG12D-induced 
lung tumors. Ablation of Mig-6 in the KrasG12D background led to enhanced 
tumorigenesis and reduced life expectancy. During tumor progression, there was 
increased airway hyperplasia, a heightened inflammatory response, reduced 
apoptosis in KrasG12D mouse lungs, and an increase of total and phosphorylated 
ERBB4 protein levels. Mechanistically, Mig-6 deficiency attenuates the cell 
apoptosis of lung tumor expressing KRASG12D partially through activating the 
ErbB4 pathway.
CONCLUSIONS: In summary, Mig-6 deficiency promotes the development of 
KrasG12D-induced lung adenoma through reducing the cell apoptosis in KrasG12D 
mouse lungs partially by activating the ErbB4 pathway.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2017.08.001
PMCID: PMC5718380
PMID: 29191600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors have no 
conflict of interest.


51. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2017 Dec 1;12(12):CD004956. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD004956.pub3.

Bisphosphonates for Paget's disease of bone in adults.

Corral-Gudino L(1), Tan AJ, Del Pino-Montes J, Ralston SH.

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine Department, Hospital el Bierzo, Gerencia de Asistencia 
Sanitaria del Bierzo, SACYL, IBSAL, RETICEF, c/Medicos Sin fronteras, 7, 
Ponferrada, Leon, Spain, 24411.

Update of
    doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD004956.pub2.

BACKGROUND: Bisphosphonates are considered to be the treatment of choice for 
people with Paget's disease of bone. However, the effects of bisphosphonates on 
patient-centred outcomes have not been extensively studied. There are 
insufficient data to determine whether reducing and maintaining biochemical 
markers of bone turnover to within the normal range improves quality of life and 
reduces the risk of complications.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the benefits and harms of bisphosphonates for adult 
patients with Paget's disease of bone.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials 
(CENTRAL), MEDLINE, Embase, ISI Web of Knowledge and trials registers up to 
March 2017. We searched regulatory agency published information for rare adverse 
events.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of bisphosphonates as 
treatment for Paget's disease in adults.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently screened search 
results, extracted data and assessed studies for risk of bias. We used standard 
methodological procedures expected by The Cochrane Collaboration.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 20 trials (25 reports, 3168 participants). Of these, 
10 trials (801 participants) compared bisphosphonates (etidronate, tiludronate, 
ibandronate, pamidronate, olpadronate, alendronate, risedronate, zoledronate) 
versus placebo, seven compared two bisphosphonates (992 participants), one trial 
compared a bisphosphonates with a bisphosphonate plus calcitonin (44 
participants), and two studies, the largest trial (1331 participants) and its 
interventional extension study (502 participants), compared symptomatic 
treatment and intensive treatment where the goal was to normalise alkaline 
phosphatase.Most studies were assessed at low or unclear risk of bias. Six of 10 
studies comparing bisphosphonates versus placebo were assessed at high risk of 
bias, mainly around incomplete outcome data and selective outcome 
reporting.Participant populations were reasonably homogeneous in terms of age 
(mean age 66 to 74 years) and sex (51% to 74% male). Most studies included 
participants who had elevated alkaline phosphatase levels whether or not bone 
pain was present. Mean follow-up was six months.Bisphosphonates versus 
placeboBisphosphonates tripled the proportion (31% versus 9%) of participants 
whose bone pain disappeared (RR 3.42, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.31 to 8.90; 
2 studies, 205 participants; NNT 5, 95% CI 1 to 31; moderate-quality evidence). 
This result is clinically important. Data were consistent when pain change was 
measured as any reduction (RR 1.97, 95% CI 1.29 to 3.01; 7 studies, 481 
participants).There was uncertainty about differences in incident fractures: 
1.4% fractures occurred in the bisphosphonates group and none in the placebo 
group (RR 0.89, 95% CI 0.18 to 4.31; 4 studies, 356 participants; very 
low-quality evidence).None of the studies reported data on orthopaedic surgery, 
quality of life or hearing thresholds.Results regarding adverse effects and 
treatment discontinuation were uncertain. There was a 64% risk of mild 
gastrointestinal adverse events in intervention group participants and 48% in 
the control group (RR 1.32, 95% CI 0.91 to 1.92; 6 studies, 376 participants; 
low-quality evidence). The likelihood of study participants discontinuing due to 
adverse effects was slightly higher in intervention group participants (4.4%) 
than the control group (4.1%) (RR 1.01, 95% CI 0.41 to 2.52; 6 studies, 517 
participants; low-quality evidence). Zoledronate was associated with an 
increased risk of transient fever or fatigue (RR 2.57, 95% CI 1.21 to 5.44; 1 
study, 176 participants; moderate-quality evidence).Bisphosphonates versus 
active comparatorMore participants reported pain relief with zoledronate than 
pamidronate (RR 1.30, 95% CI 1.10 to 1.53; 1 study, 89 participants; NNT 5, 95% 
CI 3 to 11) or risedronate (RR 1.36, 95% CI 1.06 to 1.74; 1 study, 347 
participants; NNT 7, 95% CI 4 to 24; very low quality evidence). This result is 
clinically important.There was insufficient evidence to confirm or exclude 
differences in adverse effects of bisphosphonates (RR 1.05, 95% CI 0.95 to 1.76; 
2 studies, 437 participants; low-quality evidence) and treatment discontinuation 
(2 studies, 437 participants) (RR 2.04, 95% CI 0.43 to 9.59; 2 studies, 437 
participants; very low-quality evidence).Intensive versus symptomatic 
treatmentThere was no consistent evidence of difference to response in bone 
pain, bodily pain or quality of life in participants who received intensive 
versus symptomatic treatment.Inconclusive results were observed regarding 
fractures and orthopaedic procedures for intensive versus symptomatic treatment 
(intensive treatment for fracture: RR 1.84, 95% CI 0.76 to 4.44; absolute risk 
8.1% versus 5.2%; orthopaedic procedures: RR 1.58, 95% CI 0.80 to 3.11; absolute 
risk 5.6% versus 3.0%; 1 study, 502 participants; low-quality evidence).There 
was insufficient evidence to confirm or exclude an important difference in 
adverse effects between intensive and symptomatic treatment (RR 1.05, 95% CI 
0.79 to 1.41; low-quality evidence).There was insufficient evidence to confirm 
or exclude an important difference of risk of rare adverse events (including 
osteonecrosis of the jaw) from the regulatory agencies databases.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: We found moderate-quality evidence that bisphosphonates 
improved pain in people with Paget's disease of bone when compared with placebo. 
We are uncertain about the results of head-to-head studies investigating 
bisphosphonates. We found insufficient evidence of benefit in terms of pain or 
quality of life from intensive treatment. Information about adverse effects was 
limited, but serious side effects were rare, and rate of withdrawals due to side 
effects was low.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD004956.pub3
PMCID: PMC6486234
PMID: 29192423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Luis Corral‐Gudino: none known. Adrian JH Tan: 
was co‐investigator on the PRISM‐EZ study (Tan 2017). Javier del Pino‐Montes: 
was co‐investigator on zoledronate versus risedronate trial (Reid 2005). He has 
received grants from the research Spanish agencies SACYL and Institute of Health 
Carlos III and payment for lectures and meeting expenses from Merck Sharp Dohme. 
Stuart H Ralston: previously acted as a consultant for Novartis and Merck on 
behalf of his institution (the University of Edinburgh) and was the principal 
investigator on three included primary studies (Langston 2010; Ralston 1987; Tan 
2017).


52. Rech Soins Infirm. 2017 Sep;130(130):6-11.

[The person and the ethics of care.].

[Article in French]

Delassus É.

In our western world, it has long been thought that humans are exceptions within 
nature. They have defined themselves as human beings as opposed to animals and 
things, on account of characteristics that they regarded as essential. However 
it now seems necessary to question this perception of humanity and the human 
condition.Indeed, longer life expectancy together with its related pathologies 
and medical progress lead us to think differently. Today we realise that those 
qualities which were thought to belong specifically to human beings, such as 
awareness, reason, memory and free will, can disappear. Should we conclude then 
that those whose capacities have decreased or disappeared have become less human 
or have even lost all human qualities?Such questioning leads to new ways of 
describing humans whereby they would be defined not in substantial but rather in 
interpersonal terms.Surely being a person means first and foremost that we live 
through and for others. And the ethics of care that define men as vulnerable 
beings, that is to say dependent and needing their fellow human beings' 
solicitude, would surely offer the possibility of creating a new ?revisited' 
concept of the person?

PMID: 29192464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2018 Jun;18(3):321-329. doi: 
10.1080/14737167.2018.1411193. Epub 2017 Dec 2.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of infliximab, adalimumab, golimumab and vedolizumab 
for moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in Spain.

Trigo-Vicente C(1)(2), Gimeno-Ballester V(1), Montoiro-Allué R(3), López-Del Val 
A(4).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Pharmacy , Hospital Universitario Miguel Servet , Zaragoza , 
Spain.
(2)b Faculty of Pharmacy , University of San Jorge , Zaragoza , Spain.
(3)c Department of Intensive Care , Hospital Clínico Universitario Lozano Blesa 
, Zaragoza , Spain.
(4)d Dean of Health Science Faculty , University of San Jorge , Zaragoza , 
Spain.

OBJECTIVES: Assess the efficiency of biologic treatment for moderate to severe 
ulcerative colitis (UC) which are indicated and financed for this pathology by 
Spain.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to simulate the progression in a cohort 
of patients with moderate to severe UC. The perspective chosen was National 
Health Service with an over 10 years of time horizon, with a discount rate of 
3%, and established threshold of €30,000/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY).
RESULTS: The comparison between infliximab versus adalimumab achieved an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of €45,582/QALY, with a 0.900 QALYs 
difference of efficacy and an incremental cost of €41,036. Golimumab versus 
adalimumab reached an ICER of €2,175,992/QALY, with a difference of 0.001 QALY 
in efficacy and a raising cost to €2,611. The comparison between vedolizumab 
with adalimumab achieved an ICER of €90,532/QALY, 0.930 QALYs of difference and 
an increasing cost of €84,218. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis shows that 
adalimumab would be cost-effective in the 65.2% of the simulations, infliximab 
in the 18.4%, golimumab in the 16.4% and vedulizumab for the 0%.
CONCLUSIONS: Among all these drugs studied, adalimumab is the most 
cost-effective drug for the treatment of moderate to severe UC for a threshold 
of €30,000/QALY in Spain.

DOI: 10.1080/14737167.2018.1411193
PMID: 29192530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Tumori. 2018 Oct;104(5):401-405. doi: 10.5301/tj.5000699. Epub 2018 May 9.

TARIBO trial: targeted therapy with or without nephrectomy in metastatic renal 
cell carcinoma: liquid biopsy for biomarkers discovery.

Verzoni E(1), Ratta R(1), Grassi P(1), Salvioni R(2), Stagni S(2), Montone R(3), 
Fucà G(1), Cappelletti V(4), Reduzzi C(4), De Giorgi U(5), Procopio G(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Medical Oncology, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale Tumori, 
Milan - Italy.
(2)2 Department of Urology, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Milan - 
Italy.
(3)3 Clinical Trial Center, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Milan - 
Italy.
(4)4 Biomarker Unit, Department of Experimental Oncology and Molecular Medicine, 
Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Milan - Italy.
(5)5 Department of Medical Oncology, Istituto Scientifico Romagnolo per lo 
Studio e la Cura dei Tumori (IRST) IRCCS, Meldola (Forlì-Cesena) - Italy.

PURPOSE: Two randomized trials in the cytokine era showed that cytoreductive 
nephrectomy (CN) had a role in metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC), 
increasing life expectancy. The survival benefit of tyrosine kinase inhibitors 
(TKIs), including first-line sunitinib and pazopanib, in mRCC has been 
demonstrated, but the majority of patients enrolled in the pivotal phase III 
studies had undergone nephrectomy. Therefore it is unknown if similar survival 
benefit with targeted agents could be achieved without CN. We hypothesize that 
in these patients CN could increase overall survival (OS) in comparison to 
targeted therapy without CN. We also will investigate mechanisms of primary and 
secondary resistance to TKIs in patients with mRCC and identify prognostic or 
predictive biomarkers.
METHODS: This is a randomized, open-label, controlled, multicenter phase 3 study 
comparing sunitinib or pazopanib vs CN followed by sunitinib or pazopanib as 
first-line therapy for patients with mRCC who have not received surgery and 
prior systemic treatment for metastatic disease. We will identify 270 patients 
eligible for randomization. The planned treatment duration per patient will be 
until progressive disease is observed. Secondary endpoints are the evaluation of 
progression-free survival (PFS) and response rate and the assessment of the 
safety profile. Exploratory objectives include the evaluation of circulating 
tumor cells and circulating tumor DNA and correlation with response/resistance 
to treatment.
RESULTS: The study is enrolling patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of CN in addition to targeted therapy in patients with 
renal cell carcinoma with synchronous metastases could lead to a significant 
improvement in OS and PFS.

DOI: 10.5301/tj.5000699
PMID: 29192741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Rev Med Inst Mex Seguro Soc. 2017;55(Suppl 3):S222-S330.

[Situational diagnosis of cancer care at the Instituto Mexicano del Seguro 
Social].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

de Santillana-Hernández SP(1), García-Flores MT, Galván-Oseguera H, 
Pérez-Rodríguez G, Martínez-Chapaca HD.

Author information:
(1)División de Apoyo a la Gestión, Coordinación de Unidades Médicas de Alta 
Especialidad, Unidad de Atención Médica, Dirección de Prestaciones Médicas, 
Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Ciudad de México, México 
teresa.garciaf@imss.gob.mx.

Cancer is a public health problem with an impact on Health Services in Mexico; 
it is also, one of the leading causes of mortality (mortality rate: 610.6 / 100 
000) and is expected to double the total number of new cases by 2035 (GLOBOCAN). 
The most frequent neoplasms are the malignant tumor of breast, prostate, cervix 
and uterin, colorectal and pulmonary. The most affected groups are the female, 
and by age the 65 years and older (INEGI). At the IMSS, the mortality rate for 
malignant tumors has varied, with a sustained decline since 2010. In the last 15 
years there has been a growth of 15% of the Disability Adjusted Life Years; 
during which the IMSS spent 2% of its current expenditure resources of the 
Health Insurance and Maternity. The IMSS has a network of medical units capable 
of attending to the process of prevention, early detection, diagnosis, treatment 
and rehabilitation of cancer patients. With the commitment of its improvement 
and to fulfill the National Health Programs, the OncoIMSS Program was created, 
with a reorganization of the care process with opportunity, quality, 
optimization of resources, regionalization, strengthening of infrastructure and 
trained human capital.

Publisher: El cáncer es un problema de salud pública con impacto en los 
Servicios de Salud en México; es una de las principales causas de mortalidad 
(tasa de mortalidad: 610.6 / 100 000 habitantes) y se espera que duplique el 
total de casos nuevos para el año 2035 (GLOBOCAN). Las neoplasias más frecuentes 
son el tumor maligno de mama, próstata, cervicouterino, colorrectal y pulmonar. 
Los grupos más afectados son: el femenino y por grupo etario el mayor a 65 años 
(INEGI). En el IMSS, la tasa de mortalidad por tumores malignos ha variado, con 
disminución sostenida desde el 2010. En los últimos 15 años ha habido un 
crecimiento del 15% de Años de Vida Ajustados por Discapacidad; durante el cual 
el Instituto erogó el 2% de los recursos del gasto corriente del Seguro de 
Enfermedades y Maternidad. El Instituto cuenta con una red de unidades médicas 
con capacidad para atender el proceso de prevención, detección precoz, 
diagnóstico, tratamiento y rehabilitación del paciente oncológico. Con el 
compromiso de su mejora y para dar cumplimiento a los Programas Nacionales de 
Salud se crea el Programa OncoIMSS, con reordenamiento del proceso de atención 
con oportunidad, calidad, optimización de recursos, regionalización, 
fortalecimiento de infraestructura y capital humano capacitado.

PMID: 29192747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Public Health Nurs. 2018 Jan;35(1):56-63. doi: 10.1111/phn.12375. Epub 2017
Nov  28.

Addressing the wicked problem of childhood trauma through a nursing and 
cooperative extension system collaboration.

Foli KJ(1)(2), Woodcox S(3), Kersey S(1)(2), Zhang L(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, USA.
(2)Johnson Hall of Nursing, West Lafayette, IN, USA.
(3)Purdue Extension-Health and Human Sciences, West Lafayette, IN, USA.
(4)Department of Statistics, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, USA.
(5)Regenstrief Center for Healthcare Engineering, Purdue University, West 
Lafayette, IN, USA.

The purpose of this clinical concept report is to describe a public health 
project in rural Indiana that addressed the complex social issue or "wicked 
problem" of childhood trauma. The project was implemented through a unique 
partnership between nursing faculty and Cooperative Extension Educators, 
community-based workers who are associated with fulfilling the mission of Land 
Grant Universities. The core focus of the project entailed a nurse and a 
Cooperative Extension Educator co-teaching trauma-informed parenting classes to 
rural dwelling, kinship caregivers. Kinship caregivers are often grandparents 
who assume the parenting role after the child has been removed from the birth 
parents' care. The trauma-informed curriculum was developed by experts in child 
trauma and is available through the National Child Traumatic Stress Network. The 
unique partnership provided insight into the different missions of the two 
organizations, different values and workflow metrics, and different schedules, 
which at times proved to be barriers to implementation. This discussion focuses 
on deconstructing the goals and objectives of the project and retrospectively, 
describing recommendations so that public health nurses may partner with 
Extension Educators in their communities for optimal project success.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/phn.12375
PMID: 29193317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Plant Biotechnol J. 2018 Jun;16(6):1186-1200. doi: 10.1111/pbi.12862. Epub
2017  Dec 27.

Provitamin A biofortification of cassava enhances shelf life but reduces dry 
matter content of storage roots due to altered carbon partitioning into starch.

Beyene G(1), Solomon FR(1)(2), Chauhan RD(1), Gaitán-Solis E(1), Narayanan N(1), 
Gehan J(1), Siritunga D(3), Stevens RL(1), Jifon J(4), Van Eck J(5), Linsler 
E(5), Gehan M(1), Ilyas M(1), Fregene M(1), Sayre RT(6), Anderson P(1), Taylor 
NJ(1), Cahoon EB(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Donald Danforth Plant Science Center, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(2)Center for Plant Science Innovation, Department of Biochemistry, E318 Beadle 
Center, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, NE, USA.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Puerto Rico, Mayaguez, Puerto Rico.
(4)Department of Horticultural Sciences, Texas A&M AgriLife Research and 
Extension Center, Weslaco, TX, USA.
(5)Boyce Thompson Institute, Ithaca, NY, USA.
(6)New Mexico Consortium, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM, USA.

Storage roots of cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz), a major subsistence crop of 
sub-Saharan Africa, are calorie rich but deficient in essential micronutrients, 
including provitamin A β-carotene. In this study, β-carotene concentrations in 
cassava storage roots were enhanced by co-expression of transgenes for 
deoxy-d-xylulose-5-phosphate synthase (DXS) and bacterial phytoene synthase 
(crtB), mediated by the patatin-type 1 promoter. Storage roots harvested from 
field-grown plants accumulated carotenoids to ≤50 μg/g DW, 15- to 20-fold 
increases relative to roots from nontransgenic plants. Approximately 85%-90% of 
these carotenoids accumulated as all-trans-β-carotene, the most nutritionally 
efficacious carotenoid. β-Carotene-accumulating storage roots displayed delayed 
onset of postharvest physiological deterioration, a major constraint limiting 
utilization of cassava products. Large metabolite changes were detected in 
β-carotene-enhanced storage roots. Most significantly, an inverse correlation 
was observed between β-carotene and dry matter content, with reductions of 
50%-60% of dry matter content in the highest carotenoid-accumulating storage 
roots of different cultivars. Further analysis confirmed a concomitant reduction 
in starch content and increased levels of total fatty acids, triacylglycerols, 
soluble sugars and abscisic acid. Potato engineered to co-express DXS and crtB 
displayed a similar correlation between β-carotene accumulation, reduced dry 
matter and starch content and elevated oil and soluble sugars in tubers. 
Transcriptome analyses revealed a reduced expression of genes involved in starch 
biosynthesis including ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase genes in transgenic, 
carotene-accumulating cassava roots relative to nontransgenic roots. These 
findings highlight unintended metabolic consequences of provitamin A 
biofortification of starch-rich organs and point to strategies for redirecting 
metabolic flux to restore starch production.

© 2017 The Authors. Plant Biotechnology Journal published by Society for 
Experimental Biology and The Association of Applied Biologists and John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/pbi.12862
PMCID: PMC5978869
PMID: 29193665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Glob Chang Biol. 2018 Apr;24(4):1708-1721. doi: 10.1111/gcb.13996. Epub 2017
Dec  12.

Vessel noise cuts down communication space for vocalizing fish and marine 
mammals.

Putland RL(1), Merchant ND(2), Farcas A(2), Radford CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Leigh Marine Laboratory, Institute of Marine Science, University of Auckland, 
Warkworth, New Zealand.
(2)Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science, Lowestoft, 
Suffolk, UK.

Anthropogenic noise across the world's oceans threatens the ability of 
vocalizing marine species to communicate. Some species vocalize at key life 
stages or whilst foraging, and disruption to the acoustic habitat at these times 
could lead to adverse consequences at the population level. To investigate the 
risk of these impacts, we investigated the effect of vessel noise on the 
communication space of the Bryde's whale Balaenoptera edeni, an endangered 
species which vocalizes at low frequencies, and bigeye Pempheris adspersa, a 
nocturnal fish species which uses contact calls to maintain group cohesion while 
foraging. By combining long-term acoustic monitoring data with AIS 
vessel-tracking data and acoustic propagation modelling, the impact of vessel 
noise on their communication space was determined. Routine vessel passages cut 
down communication space by up to 61.5% for bigeyes and 87.4% for Bryde's 
whales. This influence of vessel noise on communication space exceeded natural 
variability for between 3.9 and 18.9% of the monitoring period. Additionally, 
during the closest point of approach of a large commercial vessel, <10 km from 
the listening station, the communication space of both species was reduced by a 
maximum of 99% compared to the ambient soundscape. These results suggest that 
vessel noise reduces communication space beyond the evolutionary context of 
these species and may have chronic effects on these populations. To combat this 
risk, we propose the application or extension of ship speed restrictions in 
ecologically significant areas, since our results indicate a reduction in sound 
source levels for vessels transiting at lower speeds.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/gcb.13996
PMID: 29194854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Nephrology (Carlton). 2018 May;23(5):397-404. doi: 10.1111/nep.13202.

Renal function up to the 5th decade of life after nephrectomy in childhood: A 
literature review.

Cozzi DA(1), Ceccanti S(1), Cozzi F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Pediatric Surgery Unit, Sapienza University of 
Rome, Rome, Italy.

The aim of the present study was to find out if in children ablation of 50% of 
renal mass may be associated with a progressive renal damage (Brenner's 
hypothesis). We collected 1035 adult or adolescent survivors who underwent 
nephrectomy for unilateral oncological or non-oncological causes during 
childhood. Stratification of all survivors for age revealed that the number of 
subjects with blood hypertension and/or renal dysfunction (glomerular filtration 
rate < 90 mL/min per 1.73 m2 ) to be significantly higher in survivors ≥30 years 
old in comparison with younger patients. Available data on long-term renal 
function after nephrectomy during childhood support the Brenner's hypothesis.

© 2017 Asian Pacific Society of Nephrology.

DOI: 10.1111/nep.13202
PMID: 29194872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Pest Manag Sci. 2018 Oct;74(10):2356-2362. doi: 10.1002/ps.4811. Epub 2018
Feb  6.

Metabolism of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid contributes to resistance in a 
common waterhemp (Amaranthus tuberculatus) population.

Figueiredo MR(1), Leibhart LJ(2), Reicher ZJ(2), Tranel PJ(3), Nissen SJ(1), 
Westra P(1), Bernards ML(4), Kruger GR(5), Gaines TA(1), Jugulam M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioagricultural Sciences and Pest Management, Colorado State 
University, Fort Collins, CO, USA.
(2)Department of Agronomy and Horticulture, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 
Lincoln, NE, USA.
(3)Department of Crop Sciences, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL, USA.
(4)School of Agriculture, Western Illinois University, Macomb, IL, USA.
(5)Department of Agronomy and Horticulture, West Central Research and Extension 
Center, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, North Platte, NE, USA.
(6)Department of Agronomy, Kansas State University, Manhattan, KS, USA.

BACKGROUND: Synthetic auxins such as 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) have 
been widely used for selective control of broadleaf weeds since the mid-1940s. 
In 2009, an Amaranthus tuberculatus (common waterhemp) population with 10-fold 
resistance to 2,4-D was found in Nebraska, USA. The 2,4-D resistance mechanism 
was examined by conducting [14 C] 2,4-D absorption, translocation and metabolism 
experiments.
RESULTS: No differences were found in 2,4-D absorption or translocation between 
resistant and susceptible A. tuberculatus plants. Resistant plants metabolized 
[14 C] 2,4-D more rapidly than did susceptible plants. The half-life of [14 C] 
2,4-D in susceptible plants was 105 h, compared with 22 h in resistant plants. 
Pretreatment with the cytochrome P450 inhibitor malathion inhibited [14 C] 2,4-D 
metabolism in resistant plants and reduced the 2,4-D dose required for 50% 
growth inhibition (GR50 ) of resistant plants by 7-fold to 27 g ha-1 , similar 
to the GR50 for susceptible plants in the absence of malathion.
CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that rapid 2,4-D metabolism is a 
contributing factor to resistance in A. tuberculatus, potentially mediated by 
cytochrome P450. Metabolism-based resistance to 2,4-D could pose a serious 
challenge for A. tuberculatus control because of the potential for 
cross-resistance to other herbicides. © 2017 Society of Chemical Industry.

© 2017 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/ps.4811
PMID: 29194949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Med Clin (Barc). 2018 Jun 8;150(11):432-433. doi:
10.1016/j.medcli.2017.10.028.  Epub 2017 Nov 28.

Alzheimer's disease: An ignored condition.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Lleó A(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Neurología, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques Sant Pau, 
Hospital de Sant Pau, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, España. 
Electronic address: alleo@santpau.es.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medcli.2017.10.028
PMID: 29196039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Sci Rep. 2017 Dec 1;7(1):16737. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-16408-z.

3D photogrammetry quantifies growth and external erosion of individual coral 
colonies and skeletons.

Ferrari R(1)(2), Figueira WF(3), Pratchett MS(4), Boube T(3), Adam A(3), 
Kobelkowsky-Vidrio T(3), Doo SS(3), Atwood TB(5)(6), Byrne M(3)(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Life and Environmental Sciences, Edgeworth David Building, Science 
Road, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia. 
renata.ferraril@gmail.com.
(2)Australian Institute of Marine Sciences, PMB No. 3, Townsville, Queensland, 
4810, Australia. renata.ferraril@gmail.com.
(3)School of Life and Environmental Sciences, Edgeworth David Building, Science 
Road, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.
(4)ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies, James Cook University, 
Townsville, Australia.
(5)Department of Watershed Sciences and Ecology Center, Utah State University, 
Logan, UT, USA.
(6)Global Change Institute, The University of Queensland, St. Lucia, QLD, 
Australia.
(7)School of Medical Sciences, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2006, 
Australia.

Growth and contraction of ecosystem engineers, such as trees, influence 
ecosystem structure and function. On coral reefs, methods to measure small 
changes in the structure of microhabitats, driven by growth of coral colonies 
and contraction of skeletons, are extremely limited. We used 3D reconstructions 
to quantify changes in the external structure of coral colonies of tabular 
Acropora spp., the dominant habitat-forming corals in shallow exposed reefs 
across the Pacific. The volume and surface area of live colonies increased by 
21% and 22%, respectively, in 12 months, corresponding to a mean annual linear 
extension of 5.62 cm yr-1 (±1.81 SE). The volume and surface area of dead 
skeletons decreased by 52% and 47%, respectively, corresponding to a mean 
decline in linear extension of -29.56 cm yr-1 (±7.08 SE), which accounted for 
both erosion and fragmentation of dead colonies. This is the first study to use 
3D photogrammetry to assess fine-scale structural changes of entire individual 
colonies in situ, quantifying coral growth and contraction. The high-resolution 
of the technique allows for detection of changes on reef structure faster than 
other non-intrusive approaches. These results improve our capacity to measure 
the drivers underpinning ecosystem biodiversity, status and trajectory.

