
Pharmacokinetic drug evaluation of recombinant factor VIII for the treatment of 
hemophilia A.

Castaman G(1), Linari S(1).

Author information:
(1)a Center for Bleeding Disorders, Department of Oncology , Careggi University 
Hospital , Florence , Italy.

The prevention of bleeding by prophylactic factor replacement is the recommended 
approach for the treatment of severe hemophilia. Prophylaxis should be 
individualized to provide the best clinical benefit to each patient. Therefore, 
a pharmacokinetic approach is crucial. Areas covered: This review aims to 
concisely describe the basic principles of pharmacokinetics of FVIII, the role 
of population pharmacokinetic, the available different recombinant FVIII 
concentrates and the new extended half-life FVIII molecules with possible 
improvement in hemophilia A treatment. Expert opinion: Pharmacokinetic is a 
useful tool to predict the outcome of replacement therapy, even though a large 
inter-individual variability exists, becauseof several factors: age, weight, von 
Willebrand factor level, blood group, active bleed, presence of inhibitors to 
FVIII, FVIII concentrate. Among the different recombinant FVIII concentrates 
pharmacokinetic differences are minor and clinically not significant. The 
extended half-life FVIII products brings only moderate advances, as half life 
extension is limited to 1.5-1.8-fold in comparison to that of native FVIII. 
Thus, infusions could be done every fourth, rarely fifth day to ensure a safe 
through level and a significant benefit can be offered only to patients treated 
every other day or three times weekly.

DOI: 10.1080/17425255.2018.1420161
PMID: 29257899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2018 Feb;22(2):153-160. doi: 
10.1080/14728222.2018.1420168. Epub 2017 Dec 22.

MicroRNAs as therapeutic targets for the treatment of diabetes mellitus and its 
complications.

Regazzi R(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Fundamental Neurosciences , University of Lausanne , Lausanne 
, Switzerland.

Diabetes mellitus is a very common metabolic disorder affecting more than 400 
million people worldwide. Currently available treatments permit to manage the 
disease but, in the long term, many patients develop severe micro- and 
macrovascular complications that decrease life quality and expectancy. Better 
therapeutic tools to prevent and treat diabetes are therefore urgently needed. 
Areas covered: MicroRNAs are key regulators of gene expression and central 
players in a variety of physiological and pathological processes. This review 
summarizes the role of microRNAs in insulin-secreting cells and in insulin 
target tissues as well as their involvement in the development of diabetes and 
its long term complications. Expert opinion: Because of their physicochemical 
properties and their capacity to regulate a wide range of physiopathological 
events, microRNAs are attractive therapeutic targets. There is accumulating 
evidence that approaches permitting to correct the level of specific microRNAs 
can successfully prevent or treat diabetes and its complications. 
Pharmacological tools that efficiently modulate the level of microRNAs are 
already available. However, before these tools can be allowed to integrate the 
arsenal for the treatment of diabetic patients, new innovative strategies will 
be needed to achieve selective delivery of these pharmacological principles to 
the appropriate target cells.

DOI: 10.1080/14728222.2018.1420168
PMID: 29257914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Theor Popul Biol. 2018 Feb;119:83-90. doi: 10.1016/j.tpb.2017.11.006. Epub
2017  Dec 16.

Projections of health indicators for chronic disease under a semi-Markov 
assumption.

Wanneveich M(1), Jacqmin-Gadda H(2), Dartigues JF(3), Joly P(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Bordeaux, ISPED, Inserm, U1219 - Bordeaux Population Health 
Research Center, F-33000 Bordeaux, France. Electronic address: 
Mathilde.Wanneveich@u-bordeaux.fr.
(2)University of Bordeaux, ISPED, Inserm, U1219 - Bordeaux Population Health 
Research Center, F-33000 Bordeaux, France. Electronic address: 
Helene.Jacqmin-Gadda@u-bordeaux.fr.
(3)University of Bordeaux, ISPED, Inserm, U1219 - Bordeaux Population Health 
Research Center, F-33000 Bordeaux, France; University Hospital, memory 
consultation, CMRR, Bordeaux, F-33076, France. Electronic address: 
Jean-Francois.Dartigues@u-bordeaux.fr.
(4)University of Bordeaux, ISPED, Inserm, U1219 - Bordeaux Population Health 
Research Center, F-33000 Bordeaux, France. Electronic address: 
Pierre.Joly@u-bordeaux.fr.

Erratum in
    Theor Popul Biol. 2018 Mar;120:121.

Chronic diseases are a growing public health problem due to the population 
aging. Their economic, social and demographic burden will worsen in years to 
come. Up to now, the method used to provide projections and assess the future 
disease burden makes a non-homogeneous Markov assumption in an illness-death 
model. Both age and calendar year have been taken into account in all parameter 
estimations, but the time spent with the disease was not considered. This work 
develops the method with a semi-Markov assumption to model mortality among the 
diseased and considering the time spent with the disease. The method is applied 
to estimate several health indicators for dementia in France in 2030. We find 
that mortality among the individuals with dementia depends on age, calendar year 
and disease duration, and it is greater for men than for women at all ages. The 
projections for 2030 suggest a 27% increase of the number of dementia cases. The 
model proposed in this work has flexible assumptions that make it adaptable to 
provide projections for various diseases.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tpb.2017.11.006
PMID: 29258742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. BMJ Open. 2017 Dec 19;7(12):e018603. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-018603.

Handling the procurement of prostheses for total hip replacement: description of 
an original value based approach and application to a real-life dataset reported 
in the UK.

Messori A(1), Trippoli S(1), Marinai C(2).

Author information:
(1)HTA Unit, ESTAR, Regional Health System, Firenze, Italy.
(2)Tender College for hip prostheses, Firenze, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: In most European countries, innovative medical devices are not 
managed according to cost-utility methods, the reason being that national 
agencies do not generally evaluate these products. The objective of our study 
was to investigate the cost-utility profile of prostheses for hip replacement 
and to calculate a value-based score to be used in the process of procurement 
and tendering for these devices.
METHODS: The first phase of our study was aimed at retrieving the studies 
reporting the values of QALYs, direct cost, and net monetary benefit (NMB) from 
patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty (THA) with different brands of hip 
prosthesis. The second phase was aimed at calculating, on the basis of the 
results of cost-utility analysis, a tender score for each device (defined 
according to standard tendering equations and adapted to a 0-100 scale). This 
allowed us to determine the ranking of each device in the simulated tender.
RESULTS: We identified a single study as the source of information for our 
analysis. Nine device brands (cemented, cementless, or hybrid) were evaluated. 
The cemented prosthesis Exeter V40/Elite Plus Ogee, the cementless device 
Taperloc/Exceed, and the hybrid device Exeter V40/Trident had the highest NMB 
(£152 877, £156 356, and £156 210, respectively) and the best value-based tender 
score.
CONCLUSIONS: The incorporation of value-based criteria in the procurement 
process can contribute to optimising the value for money for THA devices. 
According to the approach described herein, the acquisition of these devices 
does not necessarily converge on the product with the lowest cost; in fact, more 
costly devices should be preferred when their increased cost is offset by the 
monetary value of the increased clinical benefit.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2017. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-018603
PMCID: PMC5778279
PMID: 29259062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


280. mBio. 2017 Dec 19;8(6):e02073-17. doi: 10.1128/mBio.02073-17.

SLC6A14 Is a Genetic Modifier of Cystic Fibrosis That Regulates Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa Attachment to Human Bronchial Epithelial Cells.

Di Paola M(1)(2), Park AJ(3), Ahmadi S(1)(4), Roach EJ(3), Wu YS(1)(4), 
Struder-Kypke M(3)(5), Lam JS(3), Bear CE(6)(2)(4), Khursigara CM(7)(5).

Author information:
(1)Programme of Molecular Medicine, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of Guelph, Guelph, 
Ontario, Canada.
(4)Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Molecular and Cellular Imaging Facility, Advanced Analysis Centre, University 
of Guelph, Guelph, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Programme of Molecular Medicine, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada bear@sickkids.ca ckhursig@uoguelph.ca.
(7)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of Guelph, Guelph, 
Ontario, Canada bear@sickkids.ca ckhursig@uoguelph.ca.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is caused by mutations in the CFTR gene and is associated 
with progressive and ultimately fatal infectious lung disease. There can be 
considerable variability in disease severity among individuals with the same 
CFTR mutations, and recent genome-wide association studies have identified 
secondary genetic factors that contribute to this. One of these modifier genes 
is SLC6A14, which encodes an amino acid transporter. Importantly, variants of 
this gene have been associated with age at first acquisition of Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa In this study, we aimed to determine the function of SLC6A14 in 
airway epithelia and how it might affect colonization by P. aeruginosa We show 
that SLC6A14 is expressed in respiratory epithelial cells and transports 
l-arginine out of the airway surface liquid (ASL). Exposure of airway epithelia 
to flagellin from P. aeruginosa led to upregulation of SLC6A14 expression and 
increased SLC6A14-dependent uptake of l-arginine from the ASL. In support of the 
hypothesis that l-arginine affects P. aeruginosa attachment, we showed that 
l-arginine supplementation promoted P. aeruginosa attachment to an abiotic 
surface in a dose-dependent manner. In a coculture model, we found that 
inhibition of SLC6A14-dependent l-arginine transport enhanced P. aeruginosa 
attachment. In Slc6a14-/y (knockout) mice, P. aeruginosa attachment to lung 
tissue was also significantly enhanced. Together, these findings suggest that 
SLC6A14 activity plays a role in the modification of the initial stages of 
airway infection by altering the level of l-arginine in the ASL, which in turn 
affects the attachment of P. aeruginosaIMPORTANCE CF patients with shared CFTR 
gene mutations show significant variability in their clinical presentation of 
infectious lung disease. Genome-wide association studies have been used to 
identify secondary genetic factors that may explain the variable susceptibility 
to infection by opportunistic pathogens, including P. aeruginosa, the leading 
cause of pathogen-induced lung damage in nonpediatric CF patients. Once 
identified and characterized, these secondary genetic modifiers may allow for 
the development of personalized medicine for patients and ultimately the 
extension of life. In this study, we interrogated the biological role of one of 
these modifiers, SLC6A14, and showed that it contributes to host defense by 
depleting extracellular arginine (an attachment-promoting metabolite for 
P. aeruginosa) from the airway surface liquid.

Copyright © 2017 Di Paola et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mBio.02073-17
PMCID: PMC5736915
PMID: 29259090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Reprod Med Biol. 2016 Feb 29;15(4):227-233. doi: 10.1007/s12522-016-0239-7. 
eCollection 2016 Oct.

Vitrification of embryos and oocytes for fertility preservation in cancer 
patients.

Kato K(1).

Author information:
(1)Kato Ladies' Clinic7-20-3 Nishishinjuku, Shinjuku-ku 160-0023 Tokyo Japan.

As survival rates and the life expectancy of those with malignancy have 
increased, more women in their reproductive years are referred for fertility 
preservation. Chemotherapy and radiotherapy can severely affect ovarian 
function, and the effect is irreversible. Therefore, it is optimal to attempt 
fertility preservation before chemotherapy and radiotherapy are initiated. 
Oocyte and embryo cryopreservation is the most common option for fertility 
preservation in women. Several reports have proven that embryo and oocyte 
cryopreservation can achieve a successful pregnancy. This review discusses the 
impact of chemotherapy and radiotherapy on ovarian function, and the importance 
of oocyte and embryo cryopreservation for fertility preservation. In addition, 
the current status of pregnancy outcomes and potential for cryopreserved oocytes 
to result in live births in cancer patients was reviewed. This may provide 
useful information for decision-making in cancer patients regarding oocyte and 
embryo cryopreservation and fertility preservation.

DOI: 10.1007/s12522-016-0239-7
PMCID: PMC5715860
PMID: 29259440


282. Clin Mol Allergy. 2017 Dec 14;15:21. doi: 10.1186/s12948-017-0077-0.
eCollection  2017.

Immunosenescence in aging: between immune cells depletion and cytokines 
up-regulation.

Ventura MT(1), Casciaro M(2), Gangemi S(2), Buquicchio R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Interdisciplinary Medicine, University of Bari, Policlinico, 
Piazza G. Cesare no 11, 70124 Bari, Italy.
(2)School and Operative Unit of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Department of 
Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(3)Dermatological Clinic, Department of Biomedical Science and Human Oncology, 
University of Bari Medical School, Policlinico, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The immunosenescence is a relatively recent chapter, correlated with 
the linear extension of the average life began in the nineteenth century and 
still in progress. The most important feature of immunosenescence is the 
accumulation in the "immunological space" of memory and effector cells as a 
result of the stimulation caused by repeated clinical and subclinical infections 
and by continuous exposure to antigens (inhalant allergens, food, etc.). This 
state of chronic inflammation that characterizes senescence has a significant 
impact on survival and fragility. In fact, the condition of frail elderly occurs 
less frequently in situations characterized by poor contact with viral 
infections and parasitic diseases. Furthermore the immunosenescence is 
characterized by a particular "remodelling" of the immune system, induced by 
oxidative stress. Apoptosis plays a central role in old age, a period in which 
the ability of apoptosis can change. The remodelling of apoptosis, together with 
the Inflammaging and the up-regulation of the immune response with the 
consequent secretion of pro-inflammatory lymphokines represents the major 
determinant of the rate of aging and longevity, as well as of the most common 
diseases related with age and with tumors. Other changes occur in the innate 
immunity, the first line of defence providing rapid, but unspecific and 
incomplete protection, consisting mostly of monocytes, natural killer cells and 
dendritic cells, acting up to the establishment of a adaptive immune response, 
which is slower, but highly specific, which cellular substrate consists of T and 
B lymphocytes. The markers of "Inflammaging" in adaptive immunity in 
centenarians are characterized by a decrease in T cells "naive." The reduction 
of CD8 virgins may be related to the risk of morbidity and death, as well as the 
combination of the increase of CD8+ cells and reduction of CD4+ T cells and the 
reduction of CD19+ B cells. The immune function of the elderly is weakened to 
due to the exhaustion of T cell-virgin (CD95-), which are replaced with the 
clonal expansion of CD28-T cells.
CONCLUSIONS: The increase of pro-inflammatory cytokines is associated with 
dementia, Parkinson's disease, atherosclerosis, diabetes type 2, sarcopenia and 
a high risk of morbidity and mortality. A correct modulation of immune responses 
and apoptotic phenomena can be useful to reduce age-related degenerative 
diseases, as well as inflammatory and neoplastic diseases.

DOI: 10.1186/s12948-017-0077-0
PMCID: PMC5731094
PMID: 29259496


283. Iran J Public Health. 2017 Dec;46(12):1603-1610.

The Prevalence of Malnutrition in Iranian Elderly: A Review Article.

Abolghasem Gorji H(1), Alikhani M(1), Mohseni M(2), Moradi-Joo M(3)(4), Ziaiifar 
H(5), Moosavi A(6).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Health Services Management, School of Health Management and 
Information Sciences, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Health Management and Economics Research Center, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Iran Health Insurance Organization, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Cancer Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(5)Dept. of Health Management and Economics, School of Public Health, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Dept. of Health and Community Medicine, Dezful University of Medical 
Sciences, Dezful, Iran.

BACKGROUND: The elderly population following the improvement in health status 
and life expectancy in developing countries is increasing. Malnutrition causes 
decreased quality of life and increased mortality in elderly. This study aimed 
to review systematically and meta-analysis of studies assessing the prevalence 
of malnutrition among Iranian elderly people over 60 yr of age using Mini 
Nutritional Assessment (MNA).
METHODS: This systematic review and meta-analysis was conducted in 2016 to 
estimate the overall malnutrition prevalence. Data were collected using the 
following keywords: prevalence, elderly, aging, malnutrition, nutrition, 
nutritional assessment, nutritional status, health status, mini nutritional 
assessment, MNA and Iran in PubMed, Scopus, Google Scholar, Iranmedex, Magiran, 
and SID. Computer software CMA: Two were applied to estimate the overall 
prevalence of malnutrition.
RESULTS: Seventeen of 811 articles were included in our analyses. The overall 
estimated prevalence of malnutrition among elderly based on the random effect 
model was 12.2% (95% CI 8-18.5). In subgroups, the prevalence of malnutrition 
among elderly living in home based on the fixed effect model was 9.2% (95% CI 
7.1-11.9) and prevalence of malnutrition among elderly residents of nursing 
homes based on the random effect model was 21.6% (95% CI 12-38.6).
CONCLUSION: Given the increase in the elderly population in future and the 
prevalence rate of malnutrition among them as well as the higher prevalence of 
malnutrition in elderly care centers, more attention to this population group is 
a matter of necessity.

PMCID: PMC5734959
PMID: 29259934

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interests The authors declare that 
there is no conflict of interest.


284. Pediatr Nephrol. 2019 Apr;34(4):571-578. doi: 10.1007/s00467-017-3856-4.
Epub  2017 Dec 19.

Effects of long-term cysteamine treatment in patients with cystinosis.

Ariceta G(1)(2), Giordano V(3), Santos F(4).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Nephrology, Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Universitat 
Autónoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. gariceta@vhebron.net.
(2)Servicio de Nefrología Pediátrica, Hospital Universitari Vall d' Hebron, Pg/ 
Vall d'Hebron 119-129, 08035, Barcelona, Spain. gariceta@vhebron.net.
(3)Orphan Europe, Puteaux, France.
(4)Hospital Universitario Central de Asturias & University of Oviedo, Oviedo, 
Spain.

Cystinosis is a rare autosomal-recessive lysosomal storage disease with high 
morbidity and mortality. It is caused by mutations in the CTNS gene that encodes 
the cystine transporter, cystinosin, which leads to lysosomal cystine 
accumulation. Patients with infantile nephropathic cystinosis, the most common 
and most severe clinical form of cystinosis, commonly present with renal Fanconi 
syndrome by 6-12 months of age, and without specific treatment, almost all will 
develop end-stage renal disease (ESRD) by 10-12 years of age. Early corneal 
cystine crystal deposition is a hallmark of the disease. Cystinosis also 
presents with gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., vomiting, decreased appetite, and 
feeding difficulties) and severe growth retardation and may affect several other 
organs over time, including the eye, thyroid gland, gonads, pancreas, muscles, 
bone marrow, liver, nervous system, lungs, and bones. Cystine-depleting therapy 
with cysteamine orally is the only specific targeted therapy available for 
managing cystinosis and needs to be combined with cysteamine eye drops for 
corneal disease involvement. In patients with early treatment initiation and 
good compliance to therapy, long-term cysteamine treatment delays progression to 
ESRD, significantly improves growth, decreases the frequency and severity of 
extrarenal complications, and is associated with extended life expectancy. 
Therefore, early diagnosis of cystinosis and adequate life-long treatment with 
cysteamine are essential for preventing end-organ damage and improving the 
overall prognosis in these patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00467-017-3856-4
PMCID: PMC6394685
PMID: 29260317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. J Proteome Res. 2018 Feb 2;17(2):903-917. doi:
10.1021/acs.jproteome.7b00732.  Epub 2018 Jan 4.

Stoichiometry, Absolute Abundance, and Localization of Proteins in the Bacillus 
cereus Spore Coat Insoluble Fraction Determined Using a QconCAT Approach.

Stelder SK(1), Benito de Moya C(1), Hoefsloot HCJ(1), de Koning LJ(1), Brul 
S(1), de Koster CG(1).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biology & Microbial Food Safety, ‡Mass Spectrometry of 
Biomacromolecules, and §Biosystems Data Analysis, Swammerdam Institute for Life 
Sciences, University of Amsterdam , Science Park 904, 1098 XH Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Erratum in
    J Proteome Res. 2018 Jul 6;17(7):2562.

Spores of Bacillus cereus pose a threat to food safety due to their high 
resistance to the heat or acid treatments commonly used to make food 
microbiologically safe. Spores may survive these treatments and later resume 
growth either on foodstuffs or, after ingestion, upon entering the gut they are 
capable of producing toxins, which cause either vomiting or diarrhea. The outer 
layers of the spore, the spore coat and exosporium, consist primarily of 
proteins that may serve as potential biomarkers for detection. The major 
morphogenetic protein CotE is important for correct assembly and attachment of 
the outermost layer, the exosporium, and by extension retention of many 
proteins. However, characterization of the proteins affected by deletion of CotE 
has been limited to electrophoretic patterns. Here we report the effect of CotE 
deletion on the insoluble fraction of the spore proteome through liquid 
chromatography-Fourier transform tandem mass spectrometry (LC-FTMS/MS) analysis. 
A total of 560 proteins have been identified in both mutant and wild-type spore 
coat isolates. A further 163 proteins were identified exclusively in wild-type 
spore isolates indicating that they are dependent on CotE for their association 
with the spore. Several of these are newly confirmed as associated with the 
exosporium, namely BC_2569 (BclF), BC_3345, BC_2427, BC_2878, BC_0666, BC_2984, 
BC_3481, and BC_2570. A total of 153 proteins were only identified in ΔCotE 
spore isolates. This was observed for proteins that are known or likely to be 
interacting with or are encased by CotE. Crucial spore proteins were quantified 
using a QconCAT reference standard, the first time this was used in a 
biochemically heterogeneous system. This allowed us to determine the absolute 
abundance of 21 proteins, which spanned across three orders of magnitude and 
together covered 5.66% ± 0.51 of the total spore weight. Applying the QconCAT 
methodology to the ΔCotE mutant allowed us to quantify 4.13% ± 0.14 of the spore 
total weight and revealed a reduction in abundance for most known exosporium 
associated proteins upon CotE deletion. In contrast, several proteins, either 
known or likely to be interacting with or encased by CotE (i.e., GerQ), were 
more abundant. The results obtained provide deeper insight into the layered 
spore structure such as which proteins are exposed on the outside of the spore. 
This information is important for developing detection methods for targeting 
spores in a food safety setting. Furthermore, protein stoichiometry and 
determination of the abundance of germination mediating enzymes provides useful 
information for germination and outgrowth model development.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jproteome.7b00732
PMCID: PMC5799878
PMID: 29260567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


286. Anatomy, Head and Neck, Larynx Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve.

Allen E(1), Minutello K(2), Murcek BW.

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Jul 24.

Author information:
(1)Ohio University HCOM
(2)Mclaren Oakland Coorporation

The larynx is a dynamic, flexible structure composed of a cartilaginous core 
with interconnecting membranes and associated musculature. The larynx is a 
midline structure positioned at the interface between the digestive and 
respiratory tracts. In addition to housing the vocal cords and producing 
phonation, the larynx assists with multiple other functions including but not 
limited to: airway protection, regulating intrathoracic pressures, and 
regulating intra-abdominal pressures. The anatomical position, composition, 
associated musculature and innervation of the larynx all contribute to this 
structure’s capabilities. Laryngeal Position The anatomical position of the 
larynx is also dynamic in nature and varies from birth to maturity. Initially, 
at birth and for the first couple years of life, the larynx is further superior 
in the neck than in adults. In infants, this high position results in direct 
contact between the soft palate and epiglottis. This allows inspired air to move 
from the nose to the trachea directly. It is because of this anatomical 
relationship; an infant is able to swallow liquids and breathe almost 
simultaneously. By adulthood, the larynx descends inferiorly to its final 
position. The larynx is found within the visceral compartment of the neck and 
serves as the “floor” of the anterior triangle of the neck. The larynx is the 
superior portion of the respiratory tract and aligned on its long axis, is 
vertically adjacent to the trachea, which lies directly inferior to the larynx 
and is connected via the cricotracheal ligament. Anterosuperiorly, the larynx 
articulates with the hyoid bone via the thyrohyoid membrane. Dorsally, the 
larynx attaches to the muscular walls of the pharynx. Laryngeal Skeleton The 
larynx is composed of nine contributing cartilages: three unpaired cartilages 
and three paired cartilages, which share connections to each other, the hyoid 
(superiorly), and the trachea (inferiorly). The epiglottic, thyroid, and cricoid 
cartilages make up the three unpaired cartilages and are arranged superior to 
inferior respectively. The thyroid cartilage, with the epiglottic cartilage 
superior, predominates anteriorly and forms the laryngeal prominence (i.e., 
Adam’s Apple), while the predominate cartilage dorsally is the cricoid cartilage 
which sits inferior to the thyroid cartilage. The three paired cartilages 
include the arytenoid, corniculate, and cuneiform cartilages. The paired 
arytenoid cartilages are found on the dorsal aspect of the larynx, attached 
superiorly to the cricoid cartilage. Both arytenoid cartilages give off a 
lateral extension (muscular process) and anterior extension (vocal process) 
which aid in supporting the vocal ligaments. Additionally, each arytenoid 
cartilage has an associated corniculate and cuneiform cartilage. These two 
small, paired cartilages border the opening into the laryngeal vestibule both 
dorsally and laterally. The corniculate cartilage can be found at the apex of 
both arytenoid cartilages. The cuneiform cartilage can be found sitting anterior 
and lateral to both arytenoids. These cartilages form connections via numerous 
membranes, ligaments, and synovial joints. There are two essential synovial 
joints associated with the larynx. One pair of synovial joints exists between 
the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. This joint allows the thyroid cartilage to 
rotate about the cricoid cartilage and allows the cricoid cartilage to separate 
from or approximate to the thyroid cartilage anteriorly. The second set of 
synovial joints exists between the cricoid and arytenoids (cricoarytenoid 
synovial joint). The cricoarytenoid synovial joint allows the arytenoid 
cartilages to translate on both an anterior-posterior axis and lateral-medial 
axis, as well as rotate about a cranial-caudal axis. Laryngeal Folds and 
Membranes The aryepiglottic folds extend over the lateral aspects of epiglottic, 
cuneiform, corniculate and arytenoid cartilages. The aryepiglottic folds 
demarcate the opening into the laryngeal lumen. The piriform sinus can be found 
just lateral to the aryepiglottic folds, which form the medial border of these 
sinuses. This is sometimes referred to as the lateral food channel. The 
aryepiglottic folds serve as a protective wall that prevents food from passing 
into the laryngeal aditus and together, with the associated cartilages forms a 
protective ring. This ring is not uniform in height, at the dorsal-most aspect, 
there is a reduction in the height of this fold creating susceptibility to food 
or liquid incursions. This is called the interarytenoid notch. The laryngeal 
ventricle is the fossa or sinus that lies between the vocal and vestibular folds 
on either side. The vocal folds are commonly referred to as the vocal cords and 
the vestibular folds as the false vocal cords. The laryngeal ventricle also 
demarcates the separation between the quadrangular membrane superiorly, and the 
cricovocal membrane found inferiorly. These two membranes together cover the 
entire interior portion of the larynx from the epiglottic and arytenoid 
cartilages superiorly to the cricoid cartilage inferiorly. These membranes are 
bilateral. The quadrangle membrane gives support to the aryepiglottic folds 
superiorly and continues inferiorly as the vestibular folds. The vestibular 
folds contain the vestibular ligament, which extends from the arytenoid 
cartilage to the thyroid cartilage. The vestibular folds appear to have no role 
in phonation and are relatively immobile structures. The laryngeal ventricle 
begins inferiorly to the free edge of the vestibular fold and continues 
laterally. The ventricle exists bilaterally, and secretes mucus over the 
superior surface of the vocal folds, forming a protective layer. The lateral 
cricothyroid ligament is contained within the cricovocal membrane. Like the 
vestibular ligament, this ligament also extends from the arytenoid cartilage to 
the thyroid cartilage. However, the lateral cricothyroid ligament also follows 
the cricoid cartilage as it extends inferiorly. In addition, this ligament gives 
rise to the vocal ligament as it thickens superiorly. The vocal ligament extends 
from the thyroid cartilage [luminal surface] to the vocal process of the 
arytenoid cartilage. The conus elasticus is a collective term for the cricovocal 
membrane and its contained ligaments. The medial convergence of these ligaments 
support the vocal folds. The vocal folds, also known as the true vocal cords, 
are medial projections of the walls of the larynx that can approximate to each 
other in the midline to completely obstruct the lumen of the larynx. These vocal 
folds delineate the plane referred to as the glottis. Within these vocal folds 
is a muscle known as vocalis muscle which runs aside the vocal ligament. The 
ligament and lack of blood vessels on the surface of the folds result in the 
characteristic white appearance of the pair of vocal folds. This provides visual 
distinction compared to the pink appearing vestibular folds. The space found 
between the vocal folds is termed the rima glottides. Laryngeal Cavity The 
laryngeal inlet/aditus is used to refer to the entrance of the cavity of the 
larynx. Superior to the inlet is the laryngopharynx. The cavity of the larynx is 
divided into three regions: Supraglottic space: at the level of the vestibular 
folds. Bounded anteriorly by epiglottis, laterally by the aryepiglottic folds 
and posteriorly by the inter arytenoid mucosa. Laryngeal ventricles: The middle 
region of the laryngeal cavities is composed of the paired laryngeal ventricles 
that fall between the vestibular and vocal folds. Subglottic space: also 
referred to as the infraglottic space, continues downward as far inferior as the 
junction between the cricoid and trachea.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 29261997

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Evan Allen declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Katrina Minutello 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. 
Disclosure: Benjamin Murcek declares no relevant financial relationships with 
ineligible companies.


287. Colon Cancer.

Lotfollahzadeh S(1), Recio-Boiles A(2), Cagir B.

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Jun 3.

Author information:
(1)Renal and Vascular Section, Department of Medicine, Boston University School 
of Medicine, Boston, MA 02118, USA
(2)University of Arizona

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common diagnosis and second deadliest 
malignancy for both sexes combined. CRC has both strong environmental 
associations and genetic risk factors. The incidence of new cases and mortality 
has been steadily declining for the past years, except for younger adults 
(younger than 50 years), possibly related to an increase in cancer screening and 
better therapy modalities. Approximately 5% of all CRC are attributed to two 
inherited syndromes, Familial Adenomatous Polyposis, and Lynch syndrome.  The 
change of the normal colonic epithelium to a precancerous lesion and ultimately 
an invasive carcinoma requires an accumulation of genetic mutations either 
somatic (acquired) and/or germline (inherited) in an approximately 10 to 15-year 
period. Chromosomal instability, mismatch repair, and CpG hypermethylation are 
the major pathways to CRC. The most important prognostic colon cancer indicator 
is the pathological stage at presentation. All new CRC cases should be 
universally screen for DNA mismatch repair/microsatellite status, and RAS/BRAF 
mutational testing when considering for prognostic and predictive of 
chemotherapy efficacy. In almost all patients, a diagnostic or screening 
colonoscopy is required for tissue biopsy pathological confirmation of colon 
carcinoma. Baseline computed tomography (CT) of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis 
with contrast and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) are the preferred 
cost-effective, colon-cancer staging studies done before surgical resection. 
Surgical resection is the main treatment modality for localized early-stage 
colon cancer. Adjuvant therapy could augment the chance of cure on high-risk 
patients with colon cancer. Oligo-metastatic, liver and lung, and 
local-recurrence patients with colon cancer are potential curable candidates 
with multimodality therapies. Palliative systemic therapy is reserved for 
non-surgical colon cancer candidates aiming to improve quality of life and 
prolong life expectancy.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 29262132

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Saran Lotfollahzadeh declares no 
relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: 
Alejandro Recio-Boiles declares no relevant financial relationships with 
ineligible companies. Disclosure: Burt Cagir declares no relevant financial 
relationships with ineligible companies.


288. Public Health Rep. 2018 Jan/Feb;133(1):109-118. doi:
10.1177/0033354917748670.  Epub 2017 Dec 20.

Excess Clinical Comorbidity Among HIV-Infected Patients Accessing Primary Care 
in US Community Health Centers.

Mayer KH(1)(2)(3), Loo S(1), Crawford PM(4), Crane HM(5), Leo M(4), DenOuden 
P(6), Houlberg M(7), Schmidt M(4), Quach T(8), Ruhs S(9), Vandermeer M(4), 
Grasso C(1), McBurnie MA(4).

Author information:
(1)1 The Fenway Institute, Fenway Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)2 Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)3 HIV Prevention Research, Beth Israel Deaconess Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)4 Kaiser Permanente Center for Health Research, Portland, OR, USA.
(5)5 University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(6)6 Multnomah County Community Health Center, Portland, OR, USA.
(7)7 Howard Brown Community Health Center, Chicago, IL, USA.
(8)8 Asian Health Services, Oakland, CA, USA.
(9)9 Chase Brexton Health Care, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Erratum in
    Public Health Rep. 2018 Jan/Feb;133(1):NP2.

OBJECTIVES: As the life expectancy of people infected with human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection has increased, the spectrum of illness 
has evolved. We evaluated whether people living with HIV accessing primary care 
in US community health centers had higher morbidity compared with HIV-uninfected 
patients receiving care at the same sites.
METHODS: We compared data from electronic health records for 12 837 HIV-infected 
and 227 012 HIV-uninfected patients to evaluate the relative prevalence of 
diabetes mellitus, hypertension, chronic kidney disease, dyslipidemia, and 
malignancies by HIV serostatus. We used multivariable logistic regression to 
evaluate differences. Participants were patients aged ≥18 who were followed for 
≥3 years (from January 2006 to December 2016) in 1 of 17 community health 
centers belonging to the Community Health Applied Research Network.
RESULTS: Nearly two-thirds of HIV-infected and HIV-uninfected patients lived in 
poverty. Compared with HIV-uninfected patients, HIV-infected patients were 
significantly more likely to be diagnosed and/or treated for diabetes (odds 
ratio [OR] = 1.18; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.22-1.41), hypertension (OR = 
1.38; 95% CI, 1.31-1.46), dyslipidemia (OR = 2.30; 95% CI, 2.17-2.43), chronic 
kidney disease (OR = 4.75; 95% CI, 4.23-5.34), lymphomas (OR = 4.02; 95% CI, 
2.86-5.67), cancers related to human papillomavirus (OR = 5.05; 95% CI, 
3.77-6.78), or other cancers (OR = 1.25; 95% CI, 1.10-1.42). The prevalence of 
stroke was higher among HIV-infected patients (OR = 1.32; 95% CI, 1.06-1.63) 
than among HIV-uninfected patients, but the prevalence of myocardial infarction 
or coronary artery disease did not differ between the 2 groups.
CONCLUSIONS: As HIV-infected patients live longer, the increasing burden of 
noncommunicable diseases may complicate their clinical management, requiring 
primary care providers to be trained in chronic disease management for this 
population.

DOI: 10.1177/0033354917748670
PMCID: PMC5805107
PMID: 29262289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
authors declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


289. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2017 Dec 6;51(12):1079-1085. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-9624.2017.12.006.

[Estimation of the impact of risk factors control on non-communicable diseases 
mortality, life expectancy and the labor force lost in China in 2030].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Zeng XY(1), Li YC, Liu JM, Liu YN, Liu SW, Qi JL, Zhou MG.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic and Non-communicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, 
China.

Objective: To estimate the impact of risk factors control on non-communicable 
diseases (NCDs) mortality, life expectancy and the numbers of labor force lost 
in China in 2030. Methods: We used the results of China from Global Burden of 
Disease Study 2013, according to the correlation between death of NCDs and 
exposure of risk factors and the comparative risk assessment theory, to 
calculate population attributable fraction (PAF) and disaggregate deaths of NCDs 
into parts attributable and un-attributable. We used proportional change model 
to project risk factors exposure and un-attributable deaths of NCDs in 2030, 
then to get deaths of NCDs in 2030. Simulated scenarios according to the goals 
of global main NCDs risk factors control proposed by WHO were constructed to 
calculate the impact of risk factors control on NCDs death, life expectancy and 
the numbers of labor force lost. Results: If the risk factors exposure changed 
according to the trend of 1990 to 2013, compared to the numbers (8.499 million) 
and mortality rate (613.5/100 000) of NCDs in 2013, the death number (12.161 
million) and mortality rate (859.2/100 000) would increase by 43.1% and 40.0% 
respectively in 2030, among which, ischemic stroke (increasing by 103.3% for 
death number and 98.8% for mortality rate) and ischemic heart disease 
(increasing by 85.0% for death number and 81.0% for mortality rate) would 
increase most quickly. If the risk factors get the goals in 2030, the NCDs 
deaths would reduce 2 631 thousands. If only one risk factor gets the goal, 
blood pressure (1 484 thousands NCDs deaths reduction), smoking (717 thousands 
reduction) and BMI (274 thousands reduction) would be the most important factors 
affecting NCDs death. Blood pressure control would have greater impact on 
ischemic heart disease (662 thousands reduction) and hemorrhagic stroke (449 
thousands reduction). Smoking control would have the greatest effect on lung 
cancer (251 thousands reduction) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (201 
thousands reduction). BMI control would have the greatest impact on ischemic 
heart disease (86 thousands reduction) and hypertensive heart disease (45 
thousands reduction). If the risk factors exposure changed according to the 
trend of 1990 to 2013, in 2030, the life expectancy of Chinese population would 
reach to 79.0 years old, compared to 2013, increasing by 3.3 years old, the 
labor force at the age of 15-64 years old would loss 1.932 million. If the risk 
factors get the goals in 2030, life expectancy would increase to 81.7 years old 
and the number of labor force lost would decrease to 1.467 million. Blood 
pressure, smoking and BMI control would have much greater impact on life 
expectancy (4.9, 4.0 and 3.8 years old respectively) and labor force lost (630 
thousands, 496 thousands and 440 thousands respectively). Conclusion: Risk 
factors control would play an important role in reducing NCD death, improving 
life expectancy of residents and reducing loss of labor force. Among them, the 
control of blood pressure raising, smoking and BMI raising would have a greater 
contribution to the improvement of population health status.

Publisher: 目的： 估计危险因素控制对2030年中国慢性病死亡、期望寿命和劳动力人口损失的影响。 方法： 
利用2013年全球疾病负担研究中国的结果，根据慢性病死亡风险与危险因素暴露的相关性和比较风险评估理论，计算危险因素的人群归因分值，将慢性病的死亡例数分成可归因和不可归因两部分。采用比例变化模型估计出2030年危险因素暴露和慢性病的不可归因死亡例数，进而获得2030年慢性病的死亡例数。以WHO提出2025年全球主要慢性病危险因素控制目标设置场景假设，计算各类危险因素控制对慢性病死亡、期望寿命和劳动力人口损失的影响。 
结果： 
如果危险因素暴露按1990—2013年的变化趋势发展，相比2013年中国慢性病的死亡例数（849.9万例）和死亡率（613.5/10万），2030年死亡例数（1 
216.1万例）和死亡率（859.2/10万）将分别增长43.1%和40.0%，其中，缺血性脑卒中（死亡例数增长103.3%，死亡率增长98.8%）和缺血性心脏病（死亡例数增长85.0%，死亡率增长81.0%）增长速度最快。2030年如果危险因素均实现控制目标，可避免263.1万例死于慢性病；如果仅单个危险因素控制达标，血压、吸烟和BMI是对慢性病死亡的影响最重要3个因素，可分别减少死亡148.4万例、71.7万例和27.4万例；其中，血压控制对缺血性心脏病（减少死亡66.2万例）和出血性脑卒中（减少死亡44.9万例）死亡影响最大，吸烟控制对肺癌（减少死亡25.1万例）和慢性阻塞性肺疾病（减少死亡20.1万例）死亡影响最大，BMI控制对缺血性心脏病（减少死亡8.6万例）和高血压心脏病（减少死亡4.5万例）死亡影响最大。如果危险因素暴露按1990—2013年的变化趋势发展，到2030年，中国居民期望寿命将达到79.0岁，比2013年增加3.3岁；15~64岁劳动力人口损失为193.2万名；如果危险因素暴露均达标，期望寿命将增至81.7岁，劳动力人口损失将降至146.7万名；血压、吸烟和BMI控制对提高中国期望寿命（分别为4.9、4.0和3.8岁）、减少劳动力人口损失（分别为63.0万、49.6万和44.0万名）影响最大。 
结论： 
危险因素控制对于降低慢性病死亡，提高居民期望寿命，降低劳动力人口损失具有重要作用，其中，对于血压升高、吸烟和BMI升高的控制对人群健康状况改善有较大的贡献。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-9624.2017.12.006
PMID: 29262488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. AIDS Care. 2018 Jun;30(6):784-792. doi: 10.1080/09540121.2017.1417528. Epub
2017  Dec 20.

Can we afford to offer pre-exposure prophylaxis to MSM in Catalonia? 
Cost-effectiveness analysis and budget impact assessment.

Reyes-Urueña J(1)(2)(3)(4), Campbell C(5), Diez E(6), Ortún V(7), Casabona 
J(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)a Centre for Epidemiological Studies on HIV/STI of Catalonia (CEEISCAT) , 
Agencia de Salut Publica de Catalunya (ASPC), Generalitat de Catalunya , 
Badalona , Spain.
(2)b The Institute for Health Science Research Germans Trias i Pujol (IGTP) , 
Badalona , Spain.
(3)c Department of Paediatrics, Obstetrics and Gynaecology, and Preventive 
Medicine , Univ Autonoma Barcelona , Bellaterra , Spain.
(4)d CIBER Epidemiologia y Salud Pública (CIBERESP) , Spain.
(5)e Tuberculosis Section, Centre for Infectious Disease Surveillance and 
Control, National Infection Service , Public Health England , London , England.
(6)f Agència de Salut Pública de Barcelona (ASPB) , Barcelona , Spain.
(7)g Faculty of Economic and Business Sciences , Universitat Pompeu Fabra , 
Barcelona , Spain.

Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) effectiveness has been well established. This 
study aims to assess the cost-effectiveness of providing PrEP, estimate the 
number of eligible MSM, and its budget impact in Catalonia. Cost-effectiveness 
analysis compared costs of on daily basis and "on demand" PrEP to prevent one 
infection with lifetime costs of one HIV infection. We estimated the total cost 
of providing PrEP by estimating number of eligible MSM, and included in the 
budget impact assessment antiretroviral and laboratory costs. Costs were lower 
for the on-demand PrEP group by €64015.1 and the incremental benefit was nearly 
15 life-years and 17 quality-adjusted life-years gained. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was cost-effective at €6281.62 when undiscounted 
PrEP was given daily. On-demand PrEP can be considered cost-saving in 20 years 
if the price is reduced by 90%. The number of eligible MSM in Catalonia ranges 
from 5,989 to 10,972. At current antiretroviral costs, the annual cost would 
range between €25.3-46.7 million/year (on demand PrEP), and €42.9-78.7 
million/year (daily basis PrEP). PrEP is most cost-effective if targeted towards 
groups with high incidence rates of over 3%/year. Beneficial ICER depends on 
reducing the current price of Truvada® and ensuring that effectiveness is 
maintained at high levels.

DOI: 10.1080/09540121.2017.1417528
PMID: 29262694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2017 Dec;25(6):1787-1792. doi: 
10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2017.06.038.

[Risk Factors of Leukemia-free Survival in Ph(+) ALL Patients with Allogeneic 
Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation].

[Article in Chinese]

Bao XB(1), Cai WZ(1), He XF(2), Chen SN(1), Qiu HY(1), Sun AN(1), Wu DP(1).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Institute of Hematology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, Key Laboratory of Thrombosis and Hemostasis of Ministry of Health, 
Jiangsu Collaborate Innovation Center of Hematology, Suzhou 215006, Jiangsu 
Province, China.
(2)Jiangsu Institute of Hematology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, Key Laboratory of Thrombosis and Hemostasis of Ministry of Health, 
Jiangsu Collaborate Innovation Center of Hematology, Suzhou 215006, Jiangsu 
Province, China. E-mail: hexuefeng@suda.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the effect of BCR-ABL gene transcripts on Leukemia-free 
survival (LFS) and prognosis of patients with Philadelphia chromosome positive 
acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ ALL) after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation (allo-HSCT).
METHODS: The clinical data of 107 cases of Ph+ B-ALL patients received allo-HSCT 
from July 2006 to November 2014 in the First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University were collected and the relationship between the clinical 
characteristics and LFS after transplantation was analyzed.
RESULTS: Out of 107 Ph+ ALL patients (64 males and 43 females) with a median age 
of 30(7 to 54)years old, 35.5% (38/107) cases relapsed after transplantation 
within a median time of 6.9 (1.5 to 40.7) months. A total of 39 (36.4%) cases 
died within a median time of 19.8 (3.6 to 83.7) months after HSCT, of which 
51.3% (20/39) due to disease relapse and 25.6% (10/39) due to infection. BCR-ABL 
gene transcripts of 49 cases turn into negative before transplantation, of which 
the expected 5-year cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR), non-relapse mortality 
(NRM) and overall survival (OS) were 26.5%, 29.5% and 41.6%, respectively. 
Another 49 cases still had a positive BCR-ABL gene transcripts before 
transplantation, of which the life expectancy of 5 year CIR, NRM and OS were 
64.4%,8.9% and 48.9%, respectively. Compared with BCR-ABL positive patients, 
BCR-ABL negative patients showed a lower CIR (P<0.001), a higher NRM (P=0.030) 
and a similar OS (41.6% versus 48.9%, P=0.497). Multivariate analysis showed 
that BCR-ABL positive (P=0.016) and a disease statusphase ≥CR2 (P<0.001) before 
HSCT were independent risk factors for LFS, while the age underwent HSCT was the 
principal element affecting prognosis (P<0.001).
CONCLUSION: Both the relapse and infection are the main causes of death in the 
patients after transplantation. A disease status ≥CR2 and the BCR-ABL positive 
before transplantation are 2 independent risk factors of LFS in the patients 
with Ph+ ALL after allo-HSCT.

DOI: 10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2017.06.038
PMID: 29262917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2017 Dec 13;11:3579-3587. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S121298. 
eCollection 2017.

Spotlight on olaratumab in the treatment of soft-tissue sarcoma: design, 
development, and place in therapy.

Davis EJ(1), Chugh R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, Vanderbilt 
University Medical Center, Nashville, TN.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, University 
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

Soft-tissue sarcoma (STS) is a heterogeneous group of tumors that arise from 
mesenchymal tissue. The prognosis of metastatic STS is poor with a life 
expectancy of 12-18 months. The mainstay of treatment is chemotherapy with an 
anthracycline. The addition of other chemotherapeutic agents to an anthracycline 
has been studied with limited success in improving outcomes for STS patients. 
Olaratumab is a fully human IgG1 monoclonal antibody that binds to 
platelet-derived growth factor receptor α (PDGFR-α) preventing binding of its 
ligands and receptor activation. This drug recently received the US Food and 
Drug Administration's accelerated approval for the treatment of advanced STS 
when combined with doxorubicin. This approval was based upon an improvement in 
overall survival of patients receiving the combination of doxorubicin and 
olaratumab compared to those receiving doxo-rubicin alone. In this review, we 
have analyzed the available literature on the development of olaratumab, its 
clinical utility, and its place in therapy. Based on early-phase clinical 
trials, olaratumab appears to be a promising agent for the treatment of STS.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S121298
PMCID: PMC5732568
PMID: 29263653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure Rashmi Chugh has received 
institutional support for research from Lilly. The authors report no other 
conflicts of interest in this work.


293. Heliyon. 2017 Nov 24;3(11):e00462. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2017.e00462. 
eCollection 2017 Nov.

Cordyceps militaris improves the survival of Dahl salt-sensitive hypertensive 
rats possibly via influences of mitochondria and autophagy functions.

Takakura K(1), Ito S(1), Sonoda J(1), Tabata K(1), Shiozaki M(2), Nagai K(3), 
Shibata M(4), Koike M(5), Uchiyama Y(5), Gotow T(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cell Biology, College of Nutrition, Koshien University, 
Takarazuka, Hyogo 665-0006, Japan.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Osaka University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Cellular Biochemistry, College of Nutrition, Koshien 
University, Takarazuka, Hyogo 665-0006, Japan.
(4)Department of Morphological Science, Kagoshima University Graduate School of 
Medical and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima 890-8580, Japan.
(5)Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience, Juntendo University School of 
Medicine, Tokyo 113-8421, Japan.

The genus Cordyceps and its specific ingredient, cordycepin, have attracted much 
attention for multiple health benefits and expectations for lifespan extension. 
We analyzed whether Cordyceps militaris (CM), which contains large amounts of 
cordycepin, can extend the survival of Dahl salt-sensitive rats, whose survival 
was reduced to ∼3 months via a high-salt diet. The survival of these 
life-shortened rats was extended significantly when supplemented with CM, 
possibly due to a minimization of the effects of stroke. Next, we analyzed the 
effect of CM on hypertension-sensitive organs, the central nervous systems 
(CNS), heart, kidney and liver of these rats. We attempted to ascertain how the 
organs were improved by CM, and we paid particular attention to mitochondria and 
autophagy functions. The following results were from CM-treated rats in 
comparison with control rats. Microscopically, CNS neurons, cardiomyocytes, 
glomerular podocytes, renal epithelial cells, and hepatocytes all were improved. 
However, immunoblot and immunohistochemical analysis showed that the expressions 
of mitochondria-related proteins, ATP synthase β subunit, SIRT3 and SOD2, and 
autophagy-related proteins, LC3-II/LC3-I ratio and cathepsin D all were reduced 
significantly in the CNS neurons, but increased significantly in the cells of 
the other three organs, although p62 was decreased in its expression in all the 
organs tested. Activity of Akt and mTOR was enhanced but that of AMPK was 
reduced in the CNS, while such kinase activity was completely the opposite in 
the other organs. Together, the influence of CM may differ between mitochondria 
and autophagy functioned between the two organ groups, as mitochondria and 
autophagy seemed to be repressed and promoted, respectively, in the CNS, while 
both mitochondria and autophagy were activated in the others. This could 
possibly be related to the steady or improved cellular activity in both the 
organs, which might result in the life extension of these rats.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2017.e00462
PMCID: PMC5727564
PMID: 29264419


294. J Endocr Soc. 2017 Sep 27;1(10):1301-1311. doi: 10.1210/js.2017-00258. 
eCollection 2017 Oct 1.

Fat-Bone Interactions in Adults With Spina Bifida.

Trinh A(1)(2)(3), Wong P(1)(2)(3), Sakthivel A(4), Fahey MC(2)(5), Hennel S(5), 
Brown J(5)(6), Strauss BJ(3), Ebeling PR(1)(3), Fuller PJ(1)(2)(3), Milat 
F(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Monash Health, Melbourne, Victoria 3168, 
Australia.
(2)Hudson Institute of Medical Research, Clayton, Melbourne, Victoria 3168, 
Australia.
(3)Department of Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria 3168, 
Australia.
(4)Department of General Medicine and Endocrinology, Eastern Health, Melbourne, 
Victoria 3168, Australia.
(5)Department of Paediatrics, Monash Health, Melbourne, Victoria 3168, 
Australia.
(6)Department of Paediatrics, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria 3168, 
Australia.

CONTEXT: Spina bifida (SB) can lead to changes in body composition and bone 
mineral density (BMD) through diminished ambulation, renal impairment, and 
anticonvulsant medication. With increased life expectancy, diseases such as 
obesity and osteoporosis are emerging comorbidities in SB, with limited data to 
guide management.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the relationship between cardiometabolic factors, body 
composition, BMD, and minimal trauma fractures (MTFs) in adults with SB.
DESIGN: Retrospective cross-sectional study.
