The mean pulmonic gradient for the Ross procedure was 18.0 mmHg (95% CI: 16 to 
20, P<0.0001) at latest follow-up. The evidence for all outcomes from 
observational studies was deemed to be of very low quality, while the evidence 
from RCTs was downgraded for imprecision and moderately serious risk of bias.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared to conventional AVR, the Ross procedure was associated 
with better aortic valve hemodynamics. Future studies should evaluate the impact 
of the Ross procedure on exercise capacity and quality of life.

DOI: 10.23736/S0021-9509.18.10255-2
PMID: 29327563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Biomacromolecules. 2018 Mar 12;19(3):773-781. doi:
10.1021/acs.biomac.7b01545.  Epub 2018 Feb 5.

Extending Half Life of H-Ferritin Nanoparticle by Fusing Albumin Binding Domain 
for Doxorubicin Encapsulation.

Wang C(1)(2), Zhang C(1)(2), Li Z(2), Yin S(1)(2)(3), Wang Q(2), Guo F(2), Zhang 
Y(2), Yu R(1), Liu Y(2), Su Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Drug Targeting and Drug Delivery System, Ministry of 
Education, West China School of Pharmacy , Sichuan University , Chengdu , 610041 
, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Biochemical Engineering, Institute of Process 
Engineering , Chinese Academy of Sciences , Beijing 100190 , China.
(3)School of Chemical Engineering , The University of Adelaide , Adelaide , 
South Australia 5005 , Australia.

Nanoparticles based on the heavy chain of the human ferritin (HFn) are arousing 
growing interest in the field of drug delivery due to their exceptional 
characteristics. However, the unsatisfied plasma half life of HFn substantially 
limits its application as a delivery platform for antitumor agents. Herein we 
fused an albumin binding domain (ABD) variant that basically derives from the 
streptococcal protein G and possesses a long-acting characteristic in serum 
albumin to the N-terminus of the HFn for the aim of half-life extension. This 
ABD-HFn construct was highly expressed and fully self-assembled into symmetrical 
and spherical structure in E. coli bacteria. The purified ABD-HFn showed a 
similar particle size with wild-type HFn and also exhibited an extremely high 
binding affinity with human serum albumin. To evaluate the therapeutic potential 
of this ABD-HFn construct in terms of half-life extension, we encapsulated a 
model antitumor agent doxorubicin (DOX) into the ABD-HFn. Significantly 
outstanding loading efficacy of above 60 molecules doxorubicin for each ABD-HFn 
cage was achieved. The doxorubicin-loaded ABD-HFn nanoparticle was characterized 
and further compared with the recombinant HFn counterpart. The ABD-HFn/DOX 
nanoparticle showed dramatically improved stability and comparable cell uptake 
rate when compared with HFn/DOX counterpart. Pharmacokinetics study in 
Sprague-Dawley rats showed that ABD-HFn/DOX nanoparticle possessed significantly 
prolonged plasma half life of ∼17.2 h, exhibiting nearly 19 times longer than 
that of free doxorubicin and 12 times for HFn/DOX. These optimal results 
indicated that fusion with ABD will be a promising strategy to extend the half 
life for protein-based nanoparticles.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.biomac.7b01545
PMID: 29328653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Pharmacogenet Genomics. 2018 Mar;28(3):78-85. doi:
10.1097/FPC.0000000000000325.

Whole-genome methylation profiling of peripheral blood mononuclear cell for 
acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease treated with 
corticosteroid.

Lee SW(1), Weng JT(2), Hsu PW(3), Chuang TY(1), Liu CW(1), Chen CH(4), Wu LS(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Taoyuan General Hospital, Ministry of Health 
and Welfare, Taoyuan.
(2)Life Sciences Information Technology Extension Program, University of 
California San Diego, California, USA.
(3)Bioinformatics Core Laboratory, Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia 
Sinica.
(4)Genomics Research Center, Academia Sinica, Taipei.
(5)Institute of Medical Sciences, Tzu Chi University, Hualian, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVE: Although association studies in the general population may be 
relevant for determining susceptibility to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD), they may be less applicable for pharmacogenetics research in 
participants who have already acquired the disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A genome-wide methylation profiling (generated by 
HumanMethylation450 BeadChips study was performed on peripheral blood 
mononuclear cells of 24 patients with AECOPD (acute exacerbation COPD), with 
good and poor responsiveness to standard corticosteroid treatment. 
Pyrosequencing was used to replicate the selected CpG sites in 50 patients with 
AECOPD with standard corticosteroid treatment.
RESULTS: The results showed the patients with AECOPD with good and poor response 
to standard corticosteroid treatment have a distinct DNA methylation pattern. A 
total of 23 CpG loci located in 19 known gene regions, including gene-body and 
promoter, appeared to be significantly differentially methylated. Replication by 
pyrosequencing revealed that one CpG site in PSMD8 showed the same trend of 
differential methylation and reached to statistical significance as the 
microarray result.
CONCLUSION: Our preliminary findings provide evidence for molecular 
heterogeneity in patients with AECOPD, which may contribute to significant 
differences in their response to COPD treatment.

DOI: 10.1097/FPC.0000000000000325
PMID: 29329142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. J Econ Entomol. 2018 Feb 9;111(1):218-226. doi: 10.1093/jee/tox346.

Yield Losses in Transgenic Cry1Ab and Non-Bt Corn as Assessed Using a 
Crop-Life-Table Approach.

Silva GA(1), Picanço MC(2), Ferreira LR(3), Ferreira DO(2), Farias ES(2), Souza 
TC(2), Rodrigues-Silva N(2), Pereira EJG(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Entomology and Plant Pathology, Universidade Estadual Norte 
Fluminense Darcy Ribeiro, Campos dos Goytacazes, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(2)Department of Entomology, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa, Minas 
Gerais, Brazil.
(3)Department of Plant Science, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa, Minas 
Gerais, Brazil.

In this study, we constructed crop life tables for Bacillus thuringiensis 
Berliner (Bt) Cry1Ab and non-Bt corn hybrids, in which yield-loss factors and 
abundance of predaceous arthropods were recorded during 2 yr at two locations. 
Corn kernel/grain was the yield component that had the heaviest losses and that 
determined the overall yield loss in the corn hybrids across years and 
locations. Yield losses in both corn hybrids were primarily caused by 
kernel-destroying insects. Helicoverpa zea (Boddie) and Spodoptera frugiperda 
(Smith) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) were the key loss factors at one location, 
while at the other, the key loss factor was the silk fly larvae, Euxesta spp. 
(Diptera: Ulidiidae). Although the realized yield of corn grains was not 
different (P > 0.05) between Cry1Ab and non-Bt corn hybrids, the Bt corn hybrid 
reduced (P < 0.05) the damage by H. zea and S. frugiperda in three of the four 
field trials, particularly at the location where Lepidoptera were the key loss 
factors. As expected, no reduction in the abundance of predaceous arthropods was 
observed in Cry1Ab corn fields. Various species of natural enemies were 
recorded, particularly the earwig Doru luteipes (Scudder) (Dermaptera: 
Forficulidae), which was the most abundant and frequent predaceous insect. These 
results indicate that integration of pest management practices should be pursued 
to effectively minimize losses by kernel-destroying insects during corn 
reproductive stages when growing non-Bt or certain low-dose Bt corn cultivars 
for fall armyworm and corn earworm, such as those producing Cry1Ab or other Cry 
toxins.

© The Author(s) 2018. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/tox346
PMID: 29329399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. J Am Board Fam Med. 2018 Jan-Feb;31(1):151-162. doi: 
10.3122/jabfm.2018.01.170288.

Is It Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis or Not?

Salvatore M(1), Ishikawa G(2), Padilla M(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Radiology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 
New York, NY (MS); Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York (GI, MP). mary.salvatore@mountsinai.org.
(2)From the Department of Radiology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 
New York, NY (MS); Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York (GI, MP).

Pulmonary fibrosis is not uncommon. Usual interstitial pneumonitis 
(UIP)/idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is the most common of the idiopathic 
pulmonary fibrotic diseases and has the worst prognosis with a mean life 
expectancy of 3.8 years. The American Thoracic Society has provided guidelines 
for the accurate diagnosis of IPF.In 2014, 2 antifibrotic medications were 
approved in the United States that target the multiple fibrotic pathways of UIP, 
which increased the need for early and accurate diagnosis of IPF. The early and 
correct diagnosis is hampered by mimickers that include nonspecific interstitial 
pneumonitis, chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis, and fibrotic sarcoidosis. 
Careful history taking, serologic testing, and Computer Tomography (CT) 
inspection can frequently make the correct diagnosis without need of invasive 
procedure. The purpose of this article is to share the most important aspects of 
the clinical and radiology presentation of IPF and its mimickers to enhance 
primary care clinician's ability to correctly and noninvasively diagnose 
UIP/IPF.

© Copyright 2018 by the American Board of Family Medicine.

DOI: 10.3122/jabfm.2018.01.170288
PMID: 29330249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: Dr. Salvatore is a 
lecturer at Genentech, Boehringer Ingelheim, and Rockpointe.


500. J Med Genet. 2018 May;55(5):322-328. doi: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2017-104995.
Epub  2018 Jan 12.

Risk factors for survival in patients with von Hippel-Lindau disease.

Wang JY(1)(2)(3), Peng SH(1)(2)(3), Li T(1)(2)(3), Ning XH(1)(2)(3), Liu 
SJ(1)(2)(3), Hong BA(1)(2)(3), Liu JY(1)(2)(3), Wu PJ(4), Zhou BW(1)(2)(3), Zhou 
JC(1)(2)(3), Qi NN(1)(2)(3), Peng X(1)(2)(3), Zhang JF(1)(2)(3), Ma KF(1)(2)(3), 
Cai L(1)(2)(3), Gong K(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)Institute of Urology, Peking University, Beijing, People's Republic of China.
(3)National Urological Cancer Center, Beijing, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Urology, Beijing Hospital, Beijing, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Historically, von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease is characterised by a 
poor survival. Although genotype-phenotype correlation has been described in 
many studies, the risk factors for VHL survival remain unclear. This study aims 
to evaluate the median survival of Chinese patients with VHL disease and explore 
whether VHL survival is influenced by genetic and clinical factors.
METHODS: In this retrospective study, we recruited 340 patients from 127 VHL 
families. Kaplan-Meier plot and Cox regression model were used to evaluate the 
median survival and assess how survival was influenced by birth year, birth 
order, sex, family history, mutation type, onset age and first presenting 
symptom.
RESULTS: The estimated median life expectancy for Chinese patients with VHL 
disease was 62 years. Patients with early-onset age, positive family history and 
truncating mutation types had poorer overall and VHL-related survival. Patients 
with haemangioblastoma as their first presenting symptom were related to a 
higher risk of death from central nervous system haemangioblastoma than those 
with abdominal lesions (HR 8.84, 95% CI 2.04 to 38.37, P=0.004).
CONCLUSIONS: This largest VHL survival analysis indicates that onset age, family 
history, mutation type and first presenting symptom have an effect on the 
survival of patients with VHL disease, which is helpful to genetic counselling 
and clinical decision-making.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2017-104995
PMID: 29330336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


501. J Cell Physiol. 2018 Aug;233(8):6173-6195. doi: 10.1002/jcp.26472. Epub 2018
Mar  7.

Bradykinin mediates the association of collecting duct cells to form migratory 
colonies, through B2 receptor activation.

Guaytima EDV(1), Brandán YR(1), Favale NO(2)(3), Santacreu BJ(2)(3), 
Sterin-Speziale NB(2), Márquez MG(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Investigaciones en Ciencias de la Salud Humana (IICSHUM), 
Universidad Nacional de La Rioja, La Rioja, Argentina.
(2)Instituto de Química y Físico-Química Biológica (IQUIFIB)-CONICET, Facultad 
de Farmacia y Bioquímica, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)Cátedra de Biología Celular y Molecular, Departamento de Ciencias Biológicas, 
Facultad de Farmacia y Bioquímica, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, 
Argentina.

It is known that bradykinin (BK) B2 receptor (B2R) is expressed in the 
collecting duct (CD) cells of the newborn rat kidney, but little is known about 
its role during early postnatal life. Therefore, we hypothesize that BK could 
participate in the mechanisms that mediate CD formation during the postnatal 
renal development. Performing primary cultures, combined with biochemical, 
immunocytochemical, and time-lapse analysis, we studied the role of BK in CD 
cell behavior isolated from renal papilla of neonatal rats. A reverse 
relationship was observed between B2R expression and the degree of CD epithelial 
cell sheet maturation. BK stimulation induced CD cell association upon B2R 
activation. The lack of B2R expression in cells showing mature adherens 
junctions suggested that BK is mostly involved in early adhesive events, thus 
favoring the initial formation of CD during development. Time-lapse analysis 
revealed that BK induced a high protrusive activity of CD cells, denoted by 
ruffle formation and lamellipodia extension. PI3K was involved in the BK-induced 
CD cell-cell association and the acquisition of the migratory phenotype since, 
when inhibited, membrane ruffles, and filopodia between cells diminished. 
Results indicate that the actions of BK mediated by PI3K activation were due to 
the downstream Akt and Rac pathways. This study, performed with CD cells that 
were not genetically manipulated, provides new experimental evidence supporting 
a novel role of BK in rat renal CD organization. As B2R blockade results in 
abnormal tubular differentiation, our results contribute to better understanding 
the etiology of human congenital renal malformation and diseases.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.26472
PMID: 29330844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. J Sci Food Agric. 2018 Aug;98(10):3752-3757. doi: 10.1002/jsfa.8888. Epub
2018  Mar 9.

Characteristics and intestinal immunomodulating activities of water-soluble 
pectic polysaccharides from Chenpi with different storage periods.

Tian C(1), Xu H(1), Li J(2), Han Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food and Bioengineering, Bengbu College, Bengbu, Anhui, PR 
China.
(2)Department of Life Sciences, Bengbu Medical College, Bengbu, Anhui, PR China.

BACKGROUND: The traditional view considers that Chenpi (dried citrus peel) 
stored over the long-term has better health efficacies compared to fresh Chenpi, 
although the detailed mechanism responsible for this remains obscure.
RESULTS: The three water-soluble pectic polysaccharides (CPP1, CPP5 and CPP10) 
were obtained from 1-, 5- and 10-year Chenpi, respectively, and their 
physicochemical characteristics and intestinal immunomodulating activities were 
investigated and compared. The results obtained showed that CPP5 and CPP10 
demonstrated a lower dynamic viscosity and degree of methylesterification, as 
well as a higher molecular heterogeneity, compared to CPP1. Monosaccharide 
composition analysis indicated that CPP1 was composed of arabinose, galacturonic 
acid and galactose, and a small amount of rhamnose; however, CPP5 and CPP10 
consisted of arabinose, galacturonic acid, galactose, glucose and xylose, and a 
small amount of rhamnose. With the extension of storage period of Chenpi, the 
content of soluble conjugate phenolic acids increased in the pectic 
polysaccharide. Furthermore, it was confirmed that the pectic polysaccharides 
extracted from the 5-year and 10-year Chenpi could significantly enhance the 
proliferation of bone marrow cells via activating the Peyer's patch cells in 
vitro.
CONCLUSION: The present study demonstrates the differences in the pectic 
polysaccharides from Chenpi with different storage periods and also confirms 
that the pectic polysaccharides extracted from Chenpi stored over the long-term 
had more significant intestinal activities compared to that obtained from the 
fresh Chenpi. This phenomenon might partly explain why the Chenpi stored over 
the long-term has better healthcare effects. © 2018 Society of Chemical 
Industry.

© 2018 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/jsfa.8888
PMID: 29330852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Phytochemistry. 2018 Mar;147:147-157. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2017.12.021.
Epub  2018 Jan 11.

Rapid structure prediction by HPLC-ESI-MS(n) of twenty-five polyoxypregnane 
tetraglycosides from Dregea sinensis with NMR confirmation of eight structures.

Song J(1), Dai R(1), Deng Y(1), Lv F(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing 100081, PR 
China.
(2)School of Life Science, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing 100081, PR 
China. Electronic address: lvfangbeijing@bit.edu.cn.

Dregea sinensis Hemsl is an important herbal medicine in the Dai nationality of 
China. Its prominent clinical application has generated interest in the 
polyoxypregnane glycosides of the plant. This paper describes an extension of 
previous research on the polyoxypregnane di- and triglycosides of D. sinensis, 
aiming at identifying related tetraglycosides. On the basis of HPLC-ESI-MSn 
analysis in positive mode, twenty-five previously undescribed polyoxypregnane 
tetraglycosides were characterized (regarding molecular masses and fragmentation 
in MSn) from an ethyl acetate fraction that was not previously investigated. 
Guided by MSn fragmentation and known structures of related di- and 
triglycosides from D. sinensis, tentative structures were predicted from the MS 
data. In order to test the predictions, eight of the glycosides were isolated 
and their structures were elucidated by 1D and 2D NMR methods, confirming the 
tentative predictions. Finally, the cytotoxicity of the isolates was evaluated 
on several human cell lines with little effect in general, even though slight 
inhibitory effects of four polyoxypregnane glycosides were detected at 10 μM 
against the human leukemia cell line HL-60.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2017.12.021
PMID: 29331903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. J BUON. 2017 Nov-Dec;22(6):1378-1384.

Carcinogenic potential of antitumor therapies - is the risk predictable?

Nenova I(1), Grudeva-Popova J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Medical University, Plovdiv, Bulgaria.

The growing number of successfully cured cancer patients has created a new field 
in oncogenesis. The life expectancy of such patients has increased, however this 
favorable event may create enough time for epigenetic events to occur which can 
cause a new carcinognic event, i.e. a secondary malignancy. The terms in use are 
second primary malignancies as well as therapy-related neoplasms in case the 
treatment of the first neoplasm is a direct cause. Second primary malignancies 
can be hematological neoplasms or solid tumors, with solid tumors having higher 
frequency. Hematological malignancies, especially t MDS (therapy-related 
myelodysplastic syndrome) and t AML (therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia), 
are causally associated with cytotoxic chemotherapy, while secondary solid 
tumors are related to radiotherapy. The pathogenic mechanisms of clonal 
selection in second malignancies are in connection with induction of fusion 
oncogenes, induction of genetic instability, selection of resistant cell clones 
and hereditary predisposition. The most common oncogenic agents are external 
(antineoplastic systemic treatments including radiation therapy), 
patient-specific factors (genetic, demographic, hormonal) and tumorspecific 
factors (tissue radiosensitivity, immunodeficiency). There are special features 
in the clinical picture, biological characteristics and evolution of the second 
neoplasm - different latency period, aggressive course and treatment resistance. 
Risks, types and characteristics of secondary malignancies are analyzed in 
specific groups of patients. For example, the peak of t-AML is several years 
after a primary malignancy and for solid tumors, the risk increases 
progressively during the observation period. In this review, the authors outline 
that the risk of second malignancies is predictable and can be controllable by 
adequate monitoring of patients as well as by personalized treatment of the 
first neoplasm.

PMID: 29332326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2018 Jun;59(3):381-391. doi: 
10.23736/S0021-9509.18.10350-8. Epub 2018 Jan 11.

Transcatheter aortic valve replacement in bicuspid aortic valve stenosis: where 
do we stand?

Yoon SH(1), Sharma R(1), Chakravarty T(1), Miyasaka M(1), Ochiai T(1), Nomura 
T(1), Gellada N(1), Nemanpour S(1), Nakamura M(1), Chen W(1), Makkar R(2).

Author information:
(1)Cedars-Sinai Heart Institute, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(2)Cedars-Sinai Heart Institute, Los Angeles, CA, USA - Raj.Makkar@cshs.org.

Bicuspid aortic valve is the most common congenital cardiac defect in adults, 
and symptom typically develops in adulthood. In the majority of cases, bicuspid 
aortic valve disease progress with ages and surgical aortic valve replacement is 
performed with excellent operative outcomes. However, with the relatively slow 
progression of disease, surgical aortic valve replacement is required in elderly 
patients but the surgical risk often deemed extremely high due to old age and 
multiple comorbidities. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) has 
evolved from a novel technology to an established therapy for intermediate- and 
high-risk patients with symptomatic severe aortic valve stenosis (AS). Numerous 
studies have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of TAVR, and more than 250,000 
patients have been treated with this technology. Although randomized trials have 
established TAVR as the standard treatment, these trials excluded congenital 
bicuspid AS due to its unique morphological features. Nevertheless, the growing 
experience, accumulated knowledge, and advancements of new technology lead to 
the expand use of TAVR to other pathologies or other populations such as 
bicuspid AS. With integration of imaging multimodalities (computed tomography 
and echocardiography), the diagnosis and classification of bicuspid aortic valve 
has been changing. Due to unfavorable anatomic features of bicuspid AS, the 
outcomes of TAVR in bicuspid AS was suboptimal, particularly when using the 
first-generation transcatheter valves. However, the newer-generation 
transcatheter valves significantly improved the outcomes of TAVR in bicuspid AS. 
Nonetheless, several issues still remain to be resolved. Given longer life 
expectancy in patients with bicuspid AS undergoing TAVR, durability of 
transcatheter valves is concerned. In addition, patients with bicuspid aortic 
valves often have concomitant dilatation of proximal part of ascending aorta 
(aortopathy), but limited data exist about the clinical prognosis of bicuspid 
aortic valve with concomitant aortopathy in elderly patients. Considering the 
expanding indication of TAVR to lower surgical risk and younger population, 
these issues should be evaluated in future studies.

DOI: 10.23736/S0021-9509.18.10350-8
PMID: 29332374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. J Clean Prod. 2018 Jan 10;171:1672-1680. doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.10.113.

Distributions of emissions intensity for individual beef cattle reared on 
pasture-based production systems.

McAuliffe GA(1)(2), Takahashi T(1)(2), Orr RJ(1), Harris P(1), Lee MRF(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Rothamsted Research, North Wyke, Okehampton, Devon, EX20 2SB, UK.
(2)University of Bristol, Langford House, Langford, Somerset, BS40 5DU, UK.

Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) of livestock production systems is often based on 
inventory data for farms typical of a study region. As information on individual 
animals is often unavailable, livestock data may already be aggregated at the 
time of inventory analysis, both across individual animals and across seasons. 
Even though various computational tools exist to consider the effect of genetic 
and seasonal variabilities in livestock-originated emissions intensity, the 
degree to which these methods can address the bias suffered by representative 
animal approaches is not well-understood. Using detailed on-farm data collected 
on the North Wyke Farm Platform (NWFP) in Devon, UK, this paper proposes a novel 
approach of life cycle impact assessment that complements the existing LCA 
methodology. Field data, such as forage quality and animal performance, were 
measured at high spatial and temporal resolutions and directly transferred into 
LCA processes. This approach has enabled derivation of emissions intensity for 
each individual animal and, by extension, its intra-farm distribution, providing 
a step towards reducing uncertainty related to agricultural production inherent 
in LCA studies for food. Depending on pasture management strategies, the total 
emissions intensity estimated by the proposed method was higher than the 
equivalent value recalculated using a representative animal approach by 
0.9-1.7 kg CO2-eq/kg liveweight gain, or up to 10% of system-wide emissions. 
This finding suggests that emissions intensity values derived by the latter 
technique may be underestimated due to insufficient consideration given to 
poorly performing animals, whose emissions becomes exponentially greater as 
average daily gain decreases. Strategies to mitigate life-cycle environmental 
impacts of pasture-based beef productions systems are also discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.10.113
PMCID: PMC5738973
PMID: 29333000


507. Indian J Med Paediatr Oncol. 2017 Oct-Dec;38(4):526-534. doi: 
10.4103/ijmpo.ijmpo_96_17.

A Risk-benefit Assessment Approach to Selection of Adjuvant Chemotherapy in 
Elderly Patients with Early Breast Cancer: A Mini Review.

Agarwala V(1), Choudhary N(2), Gupta S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Tata Memorial Centre, Mumbai, Maharashtra, 
India.
(2)Department of Surgical Oncology, Breast Surgery Unit, Tata Memorial Centre, 
Mumbai, Maharashtra, India.

Decision-making regarding the use and selection of adjuvant chemotherapy for 
breast cancer in elderly patients is challenging due to the presence of 
age-related comorbidities, frailty, and competing causes of mortality. One area, 
relatively neglected in most guidelines, is the effect of competing causes of 
mortality on presumed benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer in 
these patients. This article utilizes a clinical case to illustrate the 
principles of risk-benefit assessment of adjuvant chemotherapy in elderly 
patients. We suggest an approach that incorporates validated tools for 
estimating survival benefits of adjuvant chemotherapy, geriatric assessment, 
predicting toxicity, and estimating remaining life expectancy without cancer. 
Integration of all these variables provides a better picture of the possible 
benefits and harms of adjuvant chemotherapy in this population compared to 
conventional approaches that incorporate tumor-related variables and nonstandard 
measures of geriatric assessment.

DOI: 10.4103/ijmpo.ijmpo_96_17
PMCID: PMC5759076
PMID: 29333024

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


508. Issues Ment Health Nurs. 2018 Mar;39(3):282-289. doi: 
10.1080/01612840.2017.1386744. Epub 2018 Jan 15.

The Physical Health of Individuals Receiving Antipsychotic Medication: A 
Qualitative Inquiry on Experiences and Needs.

Cocoman AM(1), Casey M(2).

Author information:
(1)a School of Nursing and Human Sciences, Faculty of Science and Health , 
Dublin City University , Dublin 9, Dublin , Ireland.
(2)b School of Nursing, Midwifery and Health Systems, College of Health and 
Agricultural Sciences , University College Dublin , Dublin , Ireland.

Individuals with a mental illness are reported to have a reduced life expectancy 
and a greater risk of being affected by preventable physical illnesses such as 
cardiovascular disease and Type 2 diabetes. This inquiry sought to identify the 
physical health beliefs, experiences and needs of individuals with mental health 
problems in receipt of antipsychotic medication who live in the community. A 
qualitative inquiry was undertaken using three focus groups in a community 
mental health service in Ireland with 21 participants with mental health 
problems who were treated with antipsychotic medication. The participants were 
clear about the importance of good physical health as well as good mental 
health. They disliked the adverse effects of antipsychotic medication and 
experienced many barriers in accessing general practitioners/primary care 
services. They also preferred to receive health advice and self-management 
advice from the mental health services. The participants in this study were 
aware of the need to engage in health protective behaviours but were often 
overwhelmed by their comorbid health issues and the organizational and 
communication barriers in accessing their general practitioners.

DOI: 10.1080/01612840.2017.1386744
PMID: 29333898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Pharmacogenomics. 2018 Feb;19(3):213-226. doi: 10.2217/pgs-2017-0140. Epub
2018  Jan 15.

Potential therapeutic and economic value of risk-stratified treatment as initial 
treatment of multiple myeloma in Europe.

Gaultney JG(1), Ng TW(1), Uyl-de Groot CA(2), Sonneveld P(3), van Beers EH(4), 
van Vliet MH(4), Redekop WK(2).

Author information:
(1)IQVIA, 210 Pentonville Road, London N1 9JY, United Kingdom.
(2)Erasmus School of Health Policy & Management, Institute for Medical 
Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Haematology, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, P.O. Box 2040, 3000 
CA, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)SkylineDx BV, Rotterdam Science Tower, Marconistraat 16, 18th floor 3029 AK 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Biomarkers associated with prognosis in multiple myeloma (MM) can be used to 
stratify patients into risk categories. An attractive alternative to uniform 
treatment (UT), risk-stratified treatment (RST) is proposed where high-risk 
patients receive bortezomib-based regimens while standard-risk patients receive 
alternative less costly regimens. An early Markov-type decision analytic model 
evaluated the potential therapeutic and economic value of different RST 
strategies compared with UT in MM patients in key European countries. Results 
suggest RST strategies were both cheaper and more effective than UT across all 
countries, with the molecular marker-only strategy RST-SKY92 producing maximum 
health gains (0.031-0.039 QALYs). The conclusions remained consistent in the 
univariate sensitivity analyses. These findings should encourage stakeholders to 
support the adoption of RST approaches in MM.

DOI: 10.2217/pgs-2017-0140
PMID: 29334316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Trials. 2018 Jan 15;19(1):39. doi: 10.1186/s13063-017-2416-3.

FIT for FUNCTION: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.

Richardson J(1), Tang A(2), Guyatt G(3), Thabane L(3)(4), Xie F(3)(5), Sahlas 
D(6)(7), Hart R(6)(8), Fleck R(7), Hladysh G(9), Macrae L(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Rehabilitation Science, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada. 
jrichard@mcmaster.ca.
(2)School of Rehabilitation Science, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact and Department of 
Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(4)Centre for Evaluation of Medicine, St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton, 
Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(5)Programs for Assessment of Technology in Health Research Institute, St. 
Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(6)Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(7)Central South Regional Stroke Centre, Hamilton General Hospital, Hamilton 
Health Sciences, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(8)Population Health Research Institute, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(9)YMCA Hamilton, Burlington, Brantford, ON, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The current state of evidence suggests that community-based exercise 
programs are beneficial in improving impairment, function, and health status, 
and are greatly needed for persons with stroke. However, limitations of these 
studies include risk of bias, feasibility, and cost issues.
METHODS/DESIGN: This single-blinded, randomized controlled trial (RCT) of 216 
participants with stroke will compare the effectiveness of a 12-week YMCA 
community-based wellness program (FIT for FUNCTION) specifically designed for 
community-dwelling persons with stroke to persons who receive a standard YMCA 
membership. The primary outcome will be community reintegration using the 
Reintegration to Normal Living Index at 12 and 24 weeks. Secondary outcomes 
include measurement of physical activity level using the Rapid Assessment of 
Physical Activity and accelerometry; balance using the Berg Balance Scale; lower 
extremity function using the Short Physical Performance Battery; exercise 
capacity using the 6-min walk test; grip strength and isometric knee extension 
strength using hand held dynamometry; and health-related quality of life using 
the European Quality of Life 5-Dimension Questionnaire. We are also assessing 
cardiovascular health and lipids; glucose and inflammatory markers will be 
collected following 12-h fast for total cholesterol, insulin, glucose, and 
glycated hemoglobin. Self-efficacy for physical activity will be assessed with a 
single question and self-efficacy for managing chronic disease will be assessed 
using the Stanford 6-item Scale. The Patient Activation Measure will be used to 
assess the patient's level of knowledge, skill, and confidence for 
self-management. Healthcare utilization and costs will be evaluated. Group, 
time, and group × time interaction effects will be estimated using generalized 
linear models for continuous variables, including relevant baseline variables as 
covariates in the analysis that differ appreciably between groups at baseline. 
Cost data will be treated as non-parametric and analyzed using a Mann-Whitney U 
test.
DISCUSSION: This is a RCT with broad study eligibility criteria intended to 
recruit a wide spectrum of individuals living in the community with stroke. If 
positive benefits are demonstrated, results will provide strong research 
evidence to support the implementation of structured, community-based exercise 
and education/self-management programs for a broad range of people living in the 
community with stroke.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02703805 . Registered on 14 October 
2014.

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-017-2416-3
PMCID: PMC5769391
PMID: 29335013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: All 
participants, including individuals and staff who delivered the interventions, 
provided written consent to participate in the trial. Ethics approval for this 
study was provided by the Hamilton Integrated Research Ethics Board, REB Project 
#14-388. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


511. Microbiome. 2018 Jan 15;6(1):12. doi: 10.1186/s40168-017-0393-0.

Fungi stabilize connectivity in the lung and skin microbial ecosystems.

Tipton L(1)(2), Müller CL(3), Kurtz ZD(4), Huang L(5), Kleerup E(6), Morris 
A(7), Bonneau R(2)(3), Ghedin E(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computational and Systems Biology, University of Pittsburgh 
School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, 15260, PA, USA.
(2)Center for Genomics and Systems Biology, New York University, New York, 
10003, NY, USA.
(3)Flatiron Institute, Center for Computational Biology, Simons Foundation, New 
York, 10010, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Microbiology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, 
10016, NY, USA.
(5)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine and HIV/AIDS Division, 
University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, 94110, CA, USA.
(6)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care, Department of Medicine, David Geffen 
School of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, 90095, 
CA, USA.
(7)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, University of 
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(8)Center for Genomics and Systems Biology, New York University, New York, 
10003, NY, USA. Elodie.Ghedin@nyu.edu.
(9)Department of Epidemiology, College of Global Public Health, New York 
University, New York, NY, USA. Elodie.Ghedin@nyu.edu.

BACKGROUND: No microbe exists in isolation, and few live in environments with 
only members of their own kingdom or domain. As microbiome studies become 
increasingly more interested in the interactions between microbes than in 
cataloging which microbes are present, the variety of microbes in the community 
should be considered. However, the majority of ecological interaction networks 
for microbiomes built to date have included only bacteria. Joint association 
inference across multiple domains of life, e.g., fungal communities (the 
mycobiome) and bacterial communities, has remained largely elusive.
RESULTS: Here, we present a novel extension of the SParse InversE Covariance 
estimation for Ecological ASsociation Inference (SPIEC-EASI) framework that 
allows statistical inference of cross-domain associations from targeted amplicon 
sequencing data. For human lung and skin micro- and mycobiomes, we show that 
cross-domain networks exhibit higher connectivity, increased network stability, 
and similar topological re-organization patterns compared to single-domain 
networks. We also validate in vitro a small number of cross-domain interactions 
predicted by the skin association network.
CONCLUSIONS: For the human lung and skin micro- and mycobiomes, our findings 
suggest that fungi play a stabilizing role in ecological network organization. 
Our study suggests that computational efforts to infer association networks that 
include all forms of microbial life, paired with large-scale culture-based 
association validation experiments, will help formulate concrete hypotheses 
about the underlying biological mechanisms of species interactions and, 
ultimately, help understand microbial communities as a whole.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-017-0393-0
PMCID: PMC5769346
PMID: 29335027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: 
Written informed consent was obtained from all participants in both studies 
following approval of human subjects’ protection protocols from review boards of 
the University of Pittsburgh, University of California San Francisco, the 
University of California Los Angeles, and the National Human Genetics Research 
Institute. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


512. Aust Health Rev. 2019 Jul;43(3):314-322. doi: 10.1071/AH17142.

Improving the efficacy of healthcare services for Aboriginal Australians.

Gwynne K(1), Jeffries T Jr(2), Lincoln M(3).

Author information:
(1)Poche Centre for Indigenous Health, Room 223, Edward Ford Building A27, The 
University of Sydney, Camperdown, NSW 2006, Australia.
(2)Syndey Medical School, Edward Ford Building A27, The University of Sydney, 
Camperdown, NSW 2006, Australia. Email.
(3)Faculty of Health Sciences, The University of Sydney, 75 East Street, 
Lidcombe, NSW 2141, Australia. Email.

Objective The aim of the present systematic review was to examine the enablers 
for effective health service delivery for Aboriginal Australians. Methods This 
systematic review was undertaken in accordance with the Preferred Reporting 
Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) statement. Papers were 
included if they had data related to health services for Australian Aboriginal 
people and were published between 2000 and 2015. The 21 papers that met the 
inclusion criteria were assessed using the Effective Public Health Practice 
Project Quality Assessment Tool for Quantitative Studies. Seven papers were 
subsequently excluded due to weak methodological approaches. Results There were 
two findings in the present study: (1) that Aboriginal people fare worse than 
non-Aboriginal people when accessing usual healthcare services; and (2) there 
are five enablers for effective health care services for Australian Aboriginal 
people: cultural competence, participation rates, organisational, clinical 
governance and compliance, and availability of services. Conclusions Health 
services for Australian Aboriginal people must be tailored and implementation of 
the five enablers is likely to affect the effectiveness of health services for 
Aboriginal people. The findings of the present study have significant 
implications in directing the future design, funding, delivery and evaluation of 
health care services for Aboriginal Australians. What is known about the topic? 
There is significant evidence about poor health outcomes and the 10-year gap in 
life expectancy between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal people, and limited 
evidence about improving health service efficacy. What does this paper add? This 
systematic review found that with usual health care delivery, Aboriginal people 
experience worse health outcomes. This paper identifies five strategies in the 
literature that improve the effectiveness of health care services intended for 
Aboriginal people. What are the implications for practitioners? Aboriginal 
people fare worse in both experience and outcomes when they access usual care 
services. Health services intended for Aboriginal people should be tailored 
using the five enablers to provide timely, culturally safe and high-quality 
care.

DOI: 10.1071/AH17142
PMID: 29335090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Eur J Cancer. 2018 Mar;91:68-75. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2017.12.018. Epub 2018
Jan  12.

Adapting cervical cancer screening for women vaccinated against human 
papillomavirus infections: The value of stratifying guidelines.

Pedersen K(1), Burger EA(2), Nygård M(3), Kristiansen IS(4), Kim JJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, Institute of Health and 
Society, University of Oslo, P.O. Box 1089 Blindern, 0317, Oslo, Norway. 
Electronic address: Kine.pedersen@medisin.uio.no.
(2)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, Institute of Health and 
Society, University of Oslo, P.O. Box 1089 Blindern, 0317, Oslo, Norway; Center 
for Health Decision Science, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, 718 
Huntington Ave, 2nd Floor, Boston, MA, 02115, USA.
(3)Department of Research, Cancer Registry of Norway, P.O. Box 5313 Majorstuen, 
0304, Oslo, Norway.
(4)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, Institute of Health and 
Society, University of Oslo, P.O. Box 1089 Blindern, 0317, Oslo, Norway.
(5)Center for Health Decision Science, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public 
Health, 718 Huntington Ave, 2nd Floor, Boston, MA, 02115, USA.

BACKGROUND: Several countries have implemented vaccination against human 
papillomavirus (HPV) for adolescent girls and must decide whether and how to 
adapt cervical cancer (CC) screening for these low-risk women. We aimed to 
identify the optimal screening strategies for women vaccinated against HPV 
infections and quantify the amount that could be spent to identify vaccination 
status among women and stratify CC screening guidelines accordingly.
METHODS: We used a mathematical model reflecting HPV-induced CC in Norway to 
project the long-term health benefits, resources and costs associated with 74 
candidate-screening strategies that varied by screening test, start age and 
frequency. Strategies were considered separately for women vaccinated with the 
bivalent/quadrivalent (2/4vHPV) and nonavalent (9vHPV) vaccines. We used a 
cost-effectiveness framework (i.e. incremental cost-effectiveness ratios and net 
monetary benefit) and a commonly-cited Norwegian willingness-to-pay threshold of 
€75,000 per quality-adjusted life-year gained.
RESULTS: The most cost-effective screening strategy for 9vHPV- and 
2/4vHPV-vaccinated women involved HPV testing once and twice per lifetime, 
respectively. The value of stratifying guidelines by vaccination status was €599 
(2/4vHPV) and €725 (9vHPV) per vaccinated woman. Consequently, for the first 
birth cohort of ∼22,000 women who were vaccinated in adolescence in Norway, 
between €10.5-13.2 million over their lifetime could be spent on identifying 
individual vaccination status and stratify screening while remaining 
cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: Less intensive strategies are required for CC screening to remain 
cost-effective in HPV-vaccinated women. Moreover, screening can remain 
cost-effective even if large investments are made to identify individual 
vaccination status and stratify screening guidelines accordingly.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2017.12.018
PMCID: PMC5803338
PMID: 29335156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


514. Nat Cell Biol. 2018 Feb;20(2):162-174. doi: 10.1038/s41556-017-0016-9. Epub
2018  Jan 15.

EXD2 governs germ stem cell homeostasis and lifespan by promoting mitoribosome 
integrity and translation.

Silva J(1), Aivio S(1)(2), Knobel PA(1)(3), Bailey LJ(4), Casali A(1), Vinaixa 
M(5)(6), Garcia-Cao I(1), Coyaud É(7)(8), Jourdain AA(9)(10)(11), Pérez-Ferreros 
P(1)(12), Rojas AM(13), Antolin-Fontes A(1), Samino-Gené S(5)(6), Raught 
B(7)(8), González-Reyes A(14), Ribas de Pouplana L(1)(15), Doherty AJ(4), Yanes 
O(5)(6), Stracker TH(16).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Research in Biomedicine (IRB Barcelona), The Barcelona 
Institute of Science and Technology (BIST), Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department for Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(4)Genome Damage and Stability Centre, School of Life Sciences, University of 
Sussex, Brighton, UK.
(5)Metabolomics Platform, Department of Electronic Engineering (DEEEA), 
Universitat Rovira i Virgili, Tarragona, Spain.
(6)Biomedical Research Centre in Diabetes and Associated Metabolic Disorders 
(CIBERDEM), Madrid, Spain.
(7)Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(8)Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(9)Department of Molecular Biology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(10)Department of Systems Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(11)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(12)EMBL Australia, University of New South Wales, Lowy Cancer Research Center, 
Single Molecule Science Node, Sydney and Arc Center of Excellence in Advance 
Molecular Imaging, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(13)Computational Biology and Bioinformatics Group, Institute of Biomedicine of 
Seville (IBIS/CSIC/US/JA), Campus Hospital Universitario Virgen del Rocio, 
Seville, Spain.
(14)Centro Andaluz de Biología del Desarrollo, Universidad Pablo de 
Olavide/CSIC/JA, Seville, Spain.
(15)Catalan Institution for Research and Advanced Studies (ICREA), Barcelona, 
Spain.
(16)Institute for Research in Biomedicine (IRB Barcelona), The Barcelona 
Institute of Science and Technology (BIST), Barcelona, Spain. 
travis.stracker@irbbarcelona.org.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2018 Mar;19(3):140-141.

Mitochondria are subcellular organelles that are critical for meeting the 
bioenergetic and biosynthetic needs of the cell. Mitochondrial function relies 
on genes and RNA species encoded both in the nucleus and mitochondria, and on 
their coordinated translation, import and respiratory complex assembly. Here, we 
characterize EXD2 (exonuclease 3'-5' domain-containing 2), a nuclear-encoded 
gene, and show that it is targeted to the mitochondria and prevents the aberrant 
association of messenger RNAs with the mitochondrial ribosome. Loss of EXD2 
results in defective mitochondrial translation, impaired respiration, reduced 
ATP production, increased reactive oxygen species and widespread metabolic 
abnormalities. Depletion of the Drosophila melanogaster EXD2 orthologue (CG6744) 
causes developmental delays and premature female germline stem cell attrition, 
reduced fecundity and a dramatic extension of lifespan that is reversed with an 
antioxidant diet. Our results define a conserved role for EXD2 in mitochondrial 
translation that influences development and ageing.

DOI: 10.1038/s41556-017-0016-9
PMID: 29335528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Obes Surg. 2018 Aug;28(8):2203-2214. doi: 10.1007/s11695-017-3100-0.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Bariatric Surgery for Morbid Obesity.

Alsumali A(1), Eguale T(2)(3), Bairdain S(4), Samnaliev M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Business and Administrative Sciences, MCPHS 
University, Boston, MA, 02115, USA. adnanalsumali@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Business and Administrative Sciences, MCPHS 
University, Boston, MA, 02115, USA.
(3)Division of General Internal Medicine and Primary Care, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Department of Surgery, George Washington University, Washington, DC, USA.
(5)Department of Clinical Research Center, Boston Children's Hospital and 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: In the USA, three types of bariatric surgeries are widely performed, 
including laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG), laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric 
bypass (LRYGB), and laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding (LAGB). However, few 
economic evaluations of bariatric surgery are published. There is also scarcity 
of studies focusing on the LSG alone. Therefore, this study is evaluating the 
cost-effectiveness of bariatric surgery using LRYGB, LAGB, and LSG as treatment 
for morbid obesity.
METHODS: A microsimulation model was developed over a lifetime horizon to 
simulate weight change, health consequences, and costs of bariatric surgery for 
morbid obesity. US health care prospective was used. A model was propagated 
based on a report from the first report of the American College of Surgeons. 
Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) in terms of cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained were used in the model. Model 
parameters were estimated from publicly available databases and published 
literature.
RESULTS: LRYGB was cost-effective with higher QALYs (17.07) and cost ($138,632) 
than LSG (16.56 QALYs; $138,925), LAGB (16.10 QALYs; $135,923), and no surgery 
(15.17 QALYs; $128,284). Sensitivity analysis showed initial cost of surgery and 
weight regain assumption were very sensitive to the variation in overall model 
parameters. Across patient groups, LRYGB remained the optimal bariatric 
technique, except that with morbid obesity 1 (BMI 35-39.9 kg/m2) patients, LSG 
was the optimal choice.
CONCLUSION: LRYGB is the optimal bariatric technique, being the most 
cost-effective compared to LSG, LAGB, and no surgery options for most subgroups. 
However, LSG was the most cost-effective choice when initial BMI ranged between 
35 and 39.9 kg/m2.

DOI: 10.1007/s11695-017-3100-0
PMID: 29335933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Curr Med Res Opin. 2018 Jul;34(7):1277-1283. doi:
10.1080/03007995.2018.1428542.  Epub 2018 Jan 24.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of calcipotriol plus betamethasone dipropionate 
aerosol foam versus gel for the topical treatment of plaque psoriasis.

Foley P(1), Garrett S(2), Ryttig L(3).

Author information:
(1)a Skin & Cancer Foundation Inc., Carlton , Victoria , Australia.
(2)b HEARS , Melbourne , Australia.
(3)c LEO Pharma A/S , Ballerup , Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Calcipotriol 50 µg/g and betamethasone 0.5 mg/g dipropionate 
(Cal/BD) aerosol foam formulation provides greater effectiveness and improved 
patient preference compared with traditional Cal/BD formulations for the topical 
treatment of plaque psoriasis.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of Cal/BD foam compared with 
Cal/BD gel from the Australian perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
topical Cal/BD foam and gel for the treatment of people with plaque psoriasis. 
Treatment effectiveness, safety, and utilities were based on a randomized 
control trial, resource use was informed by expert opinion, and unit costs were 
obtained from public sources. Outcomes were reported in terms of 1-year costs, 
quality-adjusted life years, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. All 
costs were reported in 2017 Australian Dollars.
RESULTS: The model showed that patients using Cal/BD foam had more QALYs and 
higher costs over 1 year compared with patients using Cal/BD gel, resulting in a 
cost of $13,609 per QALY gained at 4-weeks. When 4 weeks of Cal/BD foam was 
compared with 8 weeks of Cal/BD gel treatment, Cal/BD foam was $8 less expensive 
and resulted in 0.006 more QALYs gained. Sensitivity analyses showed that, 
compared with Cal/BD ointment, Cal/BD foam was associated with an incremental 
cost of $15,091 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: Cal/BD foam is the most cost-effective Cal/BD formulation for the 
topical treatment of patients with plaque psoriasis.

