664. Bioconjug Chem. 2018 Feb 21;29(2):486-492. doi:
10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.7b00795.  Epub 2018 Jan 31.

Tuning the Hydrolytic Stability of Next Generation Maleimide Cross-Linkers 
Enables Access to Albumin-Antibody Fragment Conjugates and tri-scFvs.

Forte N(1), Livanos M(2), Miranda E(2), Morais M(1), Yang X(1), Rajkumar VS(2), 
Chester KA(2), Chudasama V(1)(3), Baker JR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University College London , 20 Gordon Street, 
London, WC1H OAJ, United Kingdom.
(2)Cancer Institute, University College London , 72 Huntley Street, London, WC1E 
6BT, United Kingdom.
(3)Research Institute for Medicines (iMed.ULisboa), Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Universidade de Lisboa , 1649-004 Lisbon, Portugal.

We describe investigations to expand the scope of next generation maleimide 
cross-linkers for the construction of homogeneous protein-protein conjugates. 
Diiodomaleimides are shown to offer the ideal properties of rapid bioconjugation 
with reduced hydrolysis, allowing the cross-linking of even sterically hindered 
systems. The optimized linkers are exploited to link human serum albumin to 
antibody fragments (Fab or scFv) as a prospective half-life extension platform, 
with retention of antigen binding and robust serum stability. Finally, a 
triprotein conjugate is formed, by linking scFv antibody fragments targeting 
carcinoembryonic antigen. This tri-scFv is shown to infer a combination of 
greater antigen avidity and increased in vivo half-life, representing a 
promising platform for antibody therapeutic development.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.7b00795
PMID: 29384367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Health Technol Assess. 2018 Jan;22(5):1-132. doi: 10.3310/hta22050.

The UK EndoVascular Aneurysm Repair (EVAR) randomised controlled trials: 
long-term follow-up and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Patel R(1), Powell JT(1), Sweeting MJ(2), Epstein DM(3)(4), Barrett JK(2), 
Greenhalgh RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Research Group, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(2)Cardiovascular Epidemiology Unit, Department of Public Health and Primary 
Care, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(3)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK.
(4)Department of Applied Economics, University of Granada, Granada, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Short-term survival benefits of endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) 
compared with open repair (OR) of intact abdominal aortic aneurysms have been 
shown in randomised trials, but this early survival benefit is soon lost. 
Survival benefit of EVAR was unclear at follow-up to 10 years.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the long-term efficacy of EVAR against OR in patients 
deemed fit and suitable for both procedures (EVAR trial 1; EVAR-1); and against 
no intervention in patients unfit for OR (EVAR trial 2; EVAR-2). To appraise the 
long-term significance of type II endoleak and define criteria for intervention.
DESIGN: Two national, multicentre randomised controlled trials: EVAR-1 and 
EVAR-2.
SETTING: Patients were recruited from 37 hospitals in the UK between 1 September 
1999 and 31 August 2004.
PARTICIPANTS: Men and women aged ≥ 60 years with an aneurysm of ≥ 5.5 cm (as 
identified by computed tomography scanning), anatomically suitable and fit for 
OR were randomly assigned 1 : 1 to either EVAR (n = 626) or OR (n = 626) in 
EVAR-1 using computer-generated sequences at the trial hub. Patients considered 
unfit were randomly assigned to EVAR (n = 197) or no intervention (n = 207) in 
EVAR-2. There was no blinding.
INTERVENTIONS: EVAR, OR or no intervention.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary end points were total and aneurysm-related 
mortality until mid-2015 for both trials. Secondary outcomes for EVAR-1 were 
reinterventions, costs and cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: In EVAR-1, over a mean of 12.7 years (standard deviation 1.5 years; 
maximum 15.8 years), we recorded 9.3 deaths per 100 person-years in the EVAR 
group and 8.9 deaths per 100 person-years in the OR group [adjusted hazard ratio 
(HR) 1.11, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.97 to 1.27; p = 0.14]. At 0-6 months 
after randomisation, patients in the EVAR group had a lower mortality (adjusted 
HR 0.61, 95% CI 0.37 to 1.02 for total mortality; HR 0.47, 95% CI 0.23 to 0.93 
for aneurysm-related mortality; p = 0.031), but beyond 8 years of follow-up 
patients in the OR group had a significantly lower mortality (adjusted HR 1.25, 
95% CI 1.00 to 1.56, p = 0.048 for total mortality; HR 5.82, 95% CI 1.64 to 
20.65, p = 0.0064 for aneurysm-related mortality). The increased 
aneurysm-related mortality in the EVAR group after 8 years was mainly 
attributable to secondary aneurysm sac rupture, with increased cancer mortality 
also observed in the EVAR group. Overall, aneurysm reintervention rates were 
higher in the EVAR group than in the OR group, 4.1 and 1.7 per 100 person-years, 
respectively (p < 0.001), with reinterventions occurring throughout follow-up. 
The mean difference in costs over 14 years was £3798 (95% CI £2338 to £5258). 
Economic modelling based on the outcomes of the EVAR-1 trial showed that the 
cost per quality-adjusted life-year gained over the patient's lifetime exceeds 
conventional thresholds used in the UK. In EVAR-2, patients died at the same 
rate in both groups, but there was suggestion of lower aneurysm mortality in 
those who actually underwent EVAR. Type II endoleak itself is not associated 
with a higher rate of mortality.
LIMITATIONS: Devices used were implanted between 1999 and 2004. Newer devices 
might have better results. Later follow-up imaging declined, particularly for OR 
patients. Methodology to capture reinterventions changed mainly to record 
linkage through the Hospital Episode Statistics administrative data set from 
2009.
CONCLUSIONS: EVAR has an early survival benefit but an inferior late survival 
benefit compared with OR, which needs to be addressed by lifelong surveillance 
of EVAR and reintervention if necessary. EVAR does not prolong life in patients 
unfit for OR. Type II endoleak alone is relatively benign.
FUTURE WORK: To find easier ways to monitor sac expansion to trigger timely 
reintervention.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN55703451.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research 
(NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and the results will be published 
in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 22, No. 5. See the NIHR Journals 
Library website for further project information.

DOI: 10.3310/hta22050
PMCID: PMC5817412
PMID: 29384470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Adv Emerg Nurs J. 2018 Jan/Mar;40(1):21-26. doi:
10.1097/TME.0000000000000174.

Spontaneous Vertebral Artery Dissection in a Healthy 26 Year Old Female Patient: 
A Case Study.

Reap VJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, 
New York.

Spontaneous vertebral artery dissection (SVAD) is an extremely rare, yet 
life-threatening, event that can potentially result in ischemic stroke or 
subarachnoid hemorrhage, depending on the origin and extension of the 
dissection. Vertebral artery dissection is more commonly associated with 
traumatic injury to the neck, resulting in compromised structural integrity of 
the vertebral artery wall. This case study discusses the clinical presentation, 
physical examination, diagnosis, clinical course, and outcome for a young, 
otherwise healthy, female patient who presented to the emergency department with 
a SVAD.

DOI: 10.1097/TME.0000000000000174
PMID: 29384772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 Feb;97(5):e9698. doi:
10.1097/MD.0000000000009698.

Economic evaluation of weekends-off antiretroviral therapy for young people in 
11 countries.

Tierrablanca LE(1), Ochalek J, Ford D, Babiker A, Gibb D, Butler K, Turkova A, 
Griffin S, Revill P; BREATHER (PENTA 16) Trial Group.

Author information:
(1)Tecnología e Información para la Salud, Mexico City, Mexico Centre for Health 
Economics, University of York, York Medical Research Council Clinical Trials 
Unit, University College London, London Our Lady's Children's Hospital, Dublin 
Great Ormond Street Hospital, London, UK.

Erratum in
    Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 Feb;97(7):e0012.

OBJECTIVES: To analyze the cost effectiveness of short-cycle therapy (SCT), 
where patients take antiretroviral (ARV) drugs 5 consecutive days a week and 
have 2 days off, as an alternative to continuous ARV therapy for young people 
infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and taking efavirenz-based 
first-line ARV drugs.
METHODS: We conduct a hierarchical cost-effectiveness analysis based on data on 
clinical outcomes and resource use from the BREATHER trial. BREATHER is a 
randomized trial investigating the effectiveness of SCT and continuous therapy 
in 199 participants aged 8 to 24 years and taking efavirenz-based first-line ARV 
drugs in 11 countries worldwide. Alongside nationally representative unit 
costs/prices, these data were used to estimate costs and quality adjusted life 
years (QALYs). An incremental cost-effectiveness comparison was performed using 
a multilevel bivariate regression approach for total costs and QALYs. Further 
analyses explored cost-effectiveness in low- and middle-income countries with 
access to low-cost generic ARV drugs and high-income countries purchasing 
branded ARV drugs, respectively.
RESULTS: At 48 weeks, SCT offered significant total cost savings over continuous 
therapy of US dollar (USD) 41 per patient in countries using generic drugs and 
USD 4346 per patient in countries using branded ARV drugs, while accruing 
nonsignificant total health benefits of 0.008 and 0.009 QALYs, respectively. 
Cost-effectiveness estimates were similar across settings with access to generic 
ARV drugs but showed significant variation among high-income countries where 
branded ARV drugs are purchased.
CONCLUSION: SCT is a cost-effective treatment alternative to continuous therapy 
for young people infected with HIV in countries where viral load monitoring is 
available.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000009698
PMCID: PMC5805420
PMID: 29384848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


668. Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 Feb;97(5):e9759. doi:
10.1097/MD.0000000000009759.

Plasma soluble factor following two decades prolonged suppressive antiretroviral 
therapy in HIV-1-positive males: A cross-sectional study.

Sperk M(1), Zhang W, Nowak P, Neogi U.

Author information:
(1)Divison of Clinical Microbiology, Department of Laboratory Medicine, 
Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge Science for Life Laboratory, Division of 
Proteomics and Nanobiotechnology, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Solna 
Department of Medicine Huddinge, Unit of Infectious Diseases, Karolinska 
Institutet, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

Acute human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is associated with a marked 
induction of several pathways that are linked to inflammation and CD4 T-cell 
depletion. Many of these processes do not fully resolve on short-term 
combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) (<5 years), despite complete and 
durable suppression of viremia. The effects of long-term (>15 years) successful 
antiretroviral therapy (ART) and the linkage between levels of biomarkers remain 
unclear. Therefore, the present study aims to assess the host plasma proteome in 
a well-defined clinical material from HIV-1-positive male patients on successful 
long-term ART (>15 years) and compared them with age-matched healthy controls 
and treatment-naïve male patients with viremia in a cross-sectional 
manner.Plasma samples were obtained from 3 categories of age-matched 
HIV-1-positive male patients on long-term successfully (ART, n = 10) with a 
median (Interquartile range, IQR) of 19 (17-20) years, treatment-naïve patients 
with viremia (VP, n = 14), and HIV-1-negative persons (HC, n = 11). Plasma 
proteome was analyzed using the proximity extension assay targeting 92 factors. 
Statistical analyses were performed with GraphPad Prism v7, R-packages, and 
Qlucore Omics Explorer v3.2. Functional enrichment analysis was performed by 
Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and interactions of specific 
molecules were identified using Path Designer integrated into Ingenuity Pathway 
Analysis (IPA).Group wise comparison identified 53 soluble factors, which 
differed between the groups (P < .05). Cluster analysis identified 13 discrete 
soluble factors (CD8A, CRTAM, CXCL13, EGF, CD5, CD40, CXCL9, Gal-1, IL12RB1, 
KLRD1, PD-1, CASP-8 and TNFRSF9) between the studied groups (adjusted P < .001). 
The long-term successfully ART-treated individuals clustered and networked with 
the HC while VPs clustered separately. All of the proinflammatory cytokines and 
chemokines were normalized back to levels of healthy controls in long-term 
successfully ART-treated individuals, but not the levels of KLRD1 and 
PGDFB.sKLRD1 that is involved in the regulation of natural killer cell (NK) 
mediated cytotoxicity, failed to be restored to the level of HIV-negative 
individuals despite successful long-term ART. Additional analysis of NK cells 
along with T-cell subsets can provide insights into the long-term effects of ART 
on the immune system.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000009759
PMCID: PMC5805434
PMID: 29384862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest.


669. Medicine (Baltimore). 2017 Dec;96(52):e9519. doi:
10.1097/MD.0000000000009519.

Pembrolizumab for recurrent/metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma in 
an Asian population.

Chen WC(1), Chu PY, Lee YT, Lu WB, Liu CY, Chang PM, Yang MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Taipei Veterans General Hospital School of Medicine, 
National Yang-Ming University Department of Otolaryngology, Taipei Veterans 
General Hospital, Taipei Department of Medicine, Chiayi Branch, Taichung 
Veterans General Hospital, Chiayi, Taiwan Department of Medical Oncology, Wujin 
People's Hospital Affiliated to Jiangsu University, Jiangsu, China Division of 
Medical Oncology, Department of Oncology, Taipei Veterans General Hospital 
Institute of Clinical Medicine, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan.

Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) has a high prevalence and is a 
major cause of cancer deaths in Taiwan. However, there is still no effective 
salvage therapy that prolongs the life expectancy of patients with 
recurrent/metastatic (R/M) HNSCC. Immune checkpoint therapy that targets the 
programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) may provide clinical benefit for these 
patients. We analyzed 22 R/M HNSCC patients who received pembrolizumab, a 
monoclonal antibody against PD-1, as salvage therapy. Intravenous pembrolizumab 
was given at a fixed dosage of 100 or 200 mg every 3 weeks. Three patients also 
received local palliative radiotherapy, but no patients received chemotherapy or 
targeted drugs. Seventeen patients (77.3%) received at least 3 cycles of 
pembrolizumab. Based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors criteria 
(ver. 1.1), 2 patients (9.1%) had complete response, 5 (22.7%) had partial 
response, and 6 (27.3%) had stable disease, corresponding to a disease control 
rate of 59.1%. Four patients had confirmed disease progression, 2 of whom had 
continuous progression over the target lesion after shrinkage of other 
metastases. One patient developed immune-related pneumonitis that resolved 
quickly after steroid treatment. Another patient developed itchy skin rashes 
immediately after administration of pembrolizumab, and this was controlled by an 
antihistamine. There were no other severe adverse effects. Pembrolizumab is 
beneficial and well-tolerated for some patients with refractory R/M HNSCC. 
However, it is important to identify biomarkers to identify the most responsive 
patients when designing future trials.

Copyright © 2017 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000009519
PMCID: PMC6392576
PMID: 29384959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


670. N Engl J Med. 2018 Feb 1;378(5):428-438. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1700993.

History of Childhood Kidney Disease and Risk of Adult End-Stage Renal Disease.

Calderon-Margalit R(1), Golan E(1), Twig G(1), Leiba A(1), Tzur D(1), Afek A(1), 
Skorecki K(1), Vivante A(1).

Author information:
(1)From Hadassah-Hebrew University Braun School of Public Health (R.C.-M.) and 
the Director's Office, Israel Ministry of Health (A.A.), Jerusalem, the 
Department of Nephrology and Hypertension, Meir Medical Center, Kfar-Saba, and 
the Israel Renal Registry, Tel Aviv (E.G.), the Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel 
Aviv University, Tel Aviv (E.G., A.L., A.A., A.V.), the Israel Defense Forces 
Medical Corps, Tel HaShomer (G.T., A.L., D.T., A.V.), Talpiot Medical Leadership 
Program (G.T., A.V.), Chaim Sheba Medical Center Management (A.A.), and 
Pediatric Department B and Pediatric Nephrology Unit, Edmond and Lily Safra 
Children's Hospital (A.V.), Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, the 
Institute of Nephrology and Hypertension, Assuta Ashdod Academic Medical Center, 
Ashdod, and the Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben Gurion University of the Negev, 
Beer Sheva (A.L.), and the Department of Nephrology, Rambam Health Care Campus, 
Rappaport Faculty of Medicine and Research Institute, Technion-Israel Institute 
of Technology, Haifa (K.S.) - all in Israel; and the Department of Medicine, 
Mount Auburn Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Cambridge (A.L.), and the 
Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Boston Children's Hospital and 
Harvard Medical School, Boston (A.V.) - both in Massachusetts.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2018 Feb 1;378(5):470-471.
    Nat Rev Nephrol. 2018 Apr;14(4):214.
    N Engl J Med. 2018 May 03;378(18):1750.
    N Engl J Med. ;378(18):1750.
    N Engl J Med. ;378(18):1750-1.
    Kidney Int. 2018 Jun;93(6):1260-1262.
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2018 Nov;72(5):764-766.
    J Urol. 2020 May;203(5):868.

BACKGROUND: The long-term risk associated with childhood kidney disease that had 
not progressed to chronic kidney disease in childhood is unclear. We aimed to 
estimate the risk of future end-stage renal disease (ESRD) among adolescents who 
had normal renal function and a history of childhood kidney disease.
METHODS: We conducted a nationwide, population-based, historical cohort study of 
1,521,501 Israeli adolescents who were examined before compulsory military 
service in 1967 through 1997; data were linked to the Israeli ESRD registry. 
Kidney diseases in childhood included congenital anomalies of the kidney and 
urinary tract, pyelonephritis, and glomerular disease; all participants included 
in the primary analysis had normal renal function and no hypertension in 
adolescence. Cox proportional-hazards models were used to estimate the hazard 
ratio for ESRD associated with a history of childhood kidney disease.
RESULTS: During 30 years of follow-up, ESRD developed in 2490 persons. A history 
of any childhood kidney disease was associated with a hazard ratio for ESRD of 
4.19 (95% confidence interval [CI], 3.52 to 4.99). The associations between each 
diagnosis of kidney disease in childhood (congenital anomalies of the kidney and 
urinary tract, pyelonephritis, and glomerular disease) and the risk of ESRD in 
adulthood were similar in magnitude (multivariable-adjusted hazard ratios of 
5.19 [95% CI, 3.41 to 7.90], 4.03 [95% CI, 3.16 to 5.14], and 3.85 [95% CI, 2.77 
to 5.36], respectively). A history of kidney disease in childhood was associated 
with younger age at the onset of ESRD (hazard ratio for ESRD among adults <40 
years of age, 10.40 [95% CI, 7.96 to 13.59]).
CONCLUSIONS: A history of clinically evident kidney disease in childhood, even 
if renal function was apparently normal in adolescence, was associated with a 
significantly increased risk of ESRD, which suggests that kidney injury or 
structural abnormality in childhood has long-term consequences.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1700993
PMID: 29385364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. N Engl J Med. 2018 Feb 1;378(5):473-479. doi: 10.1056/NEJMhpr1707176.

The Challenging Quest to Improve Rural Health Care.

Iglehart JK(1).

Author information:
(1)Mr. Iglehart is a national correspondent for the Journal.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMhpr1707176
PMID: 29385378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. J Econ Entomol. 2018 Apr 2;111(2):662-671. doi: 10.1093/jee/toy006.

Effect of Polygonum persicaria (Polygonales: Polygonaceae) Extracted Agglutinin 
on Life Table and Antioxidant Responses in Helicoverpa armigera (Lepidoptera: 
Noctuidae) Larvae.

Rahimi V(1), Hajizadeh J(1), Zibaee A(1), Sendi JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agricultural Sciences, University 
of Guilan, Rasht, Iran.

Plant lectins could reduce insect populations by imposing imbalances in biology 
and physiology. Here, an agglutinin was extracted from Polygonum persicaria L. 
(PPA; Polygonales: Polygonaceae) and its effects were investigated on life table 
parameters and antioxidant system of Helicoverpa armigera Hübner (Lepidoptera: 
Noctuidae). PPA significantly changed demographic parameters showing adverse 
effects on age-stage survival rate (Sxj), age-specific survival rate (lx), 
age-specific fecundity rate (mx), age stage specific fecundity (fxj), and life 
expectancy (exj). Also, life table parameters including net reproduction rate 
(R0) (Offspring/female), intrinsic rate of population increase (rm) (days-1), 
finite rate of increase (λ) (days-1), gross reproduction rate (GRR) 
(Offspring/female) significantly decreased in the PPA-treated H. armigera 
compared to control except for mean generation time (T) (days). Activities of 
antioxidant enzymes including superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CA), 
peroxidase (POX), glutathione S-transferase (GST) and glucose 6-phosphate 
dehydrogenase (GPDH) increased statistically in the PPA-treated larvae compared 
to control while no significant difference was observed in the activity of 
ascorbate peroxidase (APOX) activity. Moreover, ratio of RSSR/RSH and 
concentration of malondialdehyde (MDA) were found to be statistically higher in 
PPA-treated larvae than control. The current results clearly showed that PPA not 
only had a negative impact on demography of H. armigera but also induced 
antioxidant raise by releasing free radicals. These released radicals, together 
with impaired digestion and absorption observed in our previous report, could be 
considered as a reason for reducing biological fitness of H. armigera.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/toy006
PMID: 29385554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. BMC Geriatr. 2018 Jan 31;18(1):32. doi: 10.1186/s12877-017-0703-1.

Cost-effectiveness of comprehensive geriatric assessment at an ambulatory 
geriatric unit based on the AGe-FIT trial.

Lundqvist M(1), Alwin J(2), Henriksson M(2), Husberg M(2), Carlsson P(2), Ekdahl 
AW(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Health Sciences, Linköping University, Linköping, 
Sweden. martina.lundqvist@liu.se.
(2)Department of Medical and Health Sciences, Linköping University, Linköping, 
Sweden.
(3)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society (NVS), Division of 
Clinical geriatrics, Karolinska Institute (KI), Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Institution of Clinical Sciences, Lund University, Helsingborg, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Older people with multi-morbidity are increasingly challenging for 
today's healthcare, and novel, cost-effective healthcare solutions are needed. 
The aim of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of comprehensive 
geriatric assessment (CGA) at an ambulatory geriatric unit for people ≥75 years 
with multi-morbidity.
METHOD: The primary outcome was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
comparing costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) of a CGA strategy with 
usual care in a Swedish setting. Outcomes were estimated over a lifelong time 
horizon using decision-analytic modelling based on data from the randomized 
AGe-FIT trial. The analysis employed a public health care sector perspective. 
Costs and QALYs were discounted by 3% per annum and are reported in 2016 euros.
RESULTS: Compared with usual care CGA was associated with a per patient mean 
incremental cost of approximately 25,000 EUR and a gain of 0.54 QALYs resulting 
in an ICER of 46,000 EUR. The incremental costs were primarily caused by 
intervention costs and costs associated with increased survival, whereas the 
gain in QALYs was primarily a consequence of the fact that patients in the CGA 
group lived longer.
CONCLUSION: CGA in an ambulatory setting for older people with multi-morbidity 
results in a cost per QALY of 46,000 EUR compared with usual care, a figure 
generally considered reasonable in a Swedish healthcare context. A rather simple 
reorganisation of care for older people with multi-morbidity may therefore cost 
effectively contribute to meet the needs of this complex patient population.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The trial was retrospectively registered 
in clinicaltrial.gov, NCT01446757 . September, 2011.

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-017-0703-1
PMCID: PMC5793378
PMID: 29386007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The 
AGe-FIT trial was approved by the regional ethical vetting board at Linköping 
University (No: 2011/41–31 and No: 2015/6–32), and is registered on 
clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01446757). All participants gave written informed consent 
to participate in the study. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING 
INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing interests. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


674. J Insect Behav. 2017;30(6):632-644. doi: 10.1007/s10905-017-9647-8. Epub
2017  Nov 4.

Increased Risk Proneness or Social Withdrawal? The Effects of Shortened Life 
Expectancy on the Expression of Rescue Behavior in Workers of the ant Formica 
cinerea (Hymenoptera: Formicidae).

Miler K(1), Symonowicz B(2), Godzińska EJ(2).

Author information:
(1)1Institute of Environmental Sciences, Jagiellonian University, Gronostajowa 
St. 7, 30-387 Kraków, Poland.
(2)2Laboratory of Ethology, Department of Neurophysiology, Nencki Institute of 
Experimental Biology of the Polish Academy of Sciences, Pasteur St. 3, 02-093 
Warszawa, Poland.

In social insects behavioral consequences of shortened life expectancy include, 
among others, increased risk proneness and social withdrawal. We investigated 
the impact of experimental shortening of life expectancy of foragers of the ant 
Formica cinerea achieved by their exposure to carbon dioxide on the expression 
of rescue behavior, risky pro-social behavior, tested by means of two bioassays 
during which a single worker (rescuer) was confronted with a nestmate (victim) 
attacked by a predator (antlion larva capture bioassay) or immobilized by an 
artificial snare (entrapment bioassay). Efficacy of carbon dioxide poisoning in 
shortening life expectancy was confirmed by the analysis of ant mortality. 
Rescue behavior observed during behavioral tests involved digging around the 
victim, transport of the sand covering the victim, pulling the 
limbs/antennae/mandibles of the victim, direct attack on the antlion (in antlion 
larva capture tests), and snare biting (in entrapment tests). The rate of 
occurrence of rescue behavior was lower in ants with shortened life expectancy, 
but that effect was significant only in the case of the entrapment bioassay. 
Similarly, only in the case of the entrapment bioassay ants with shortened life 
expectancy displayed rescue behavior after a longer latency and devoted less 
time to that behavior than ants from the control groups. Our results 
demonstrated that in ant workers shortened life expectancy may lead to reduced 
propensity for rescue behavior, most probably as an element of the social 
withdrawal syndrome that had already been described in several studies on 
behavior of moribund ants and honeybees.

DOI: 10.1007/s10905-017-9647-8
PMCID: PMC5770485
PMID: 29386747


675. Evol Appl. 2017 Aug 24;11(2):140-152. doi: 10.1111/eva.12523. eCollection
2018  Feb.

Cancer incidence increasing globally: The role of relaxed natural selection.

You W(1), Henneberg M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Biological Anthropology and Comparative Anatomy Unit Adelaide Medical School 
The University of Adelaide Adelaide SA Australia.
(2)Institute of Evolutionary Medicine University of Zurich Zurich Switzerland.

Cancer incidence increase has multiple aetiologies. Mutant alleles accumulation 
in populations may be one of them due to strong heritability of many cancers. 
The opportunity for the operation of natural selection has decreased in the past 
~150 years because of reduction in mortality and fertility. Mutation-selection 
balance may have been disturbed in this process and genes providing background 
for some cancers may have been accumulating in human gene pools. Worldwide, 
based on the WHO statistics for 173 countries the index of the opportunity for 
selection is strongly inversely correlated with cancer incidence in peoples aged 
0-49 years and in people of all ages. This relationship remains significant when 
gross domestic product per capita (GDP), life expectancy of older people (e50), 
obesity, physical inactivity, smoking and urbanization are kept statistically 
constant for fifteen (15) of twenty-seven (27) individual cancers incidence 
rates. Twelve (12) cancers which are not correlated with relaxed natural 
selection after considering the six potential confounders are largely 
attributable to external causes like viruses and toxins. Ratios of the average 
cancer incidence rates of the 10 countries with lowest opportunities for 
selection to the average cancer incidence rates of the 10 countries with highest 
opportunities for selection are 2.3 (all cancers at all ages), 2.4 (all cancers 
in 0-49 years age group), 5.7 (average ratios of strongly genetically based 
cancers) and 2.1 (average ratios of cancers with less genetic background).

DOI: 10.1111/eva.12523
PMCID: PMC5775494
PMID: 29387151


676. Lupus Sci Med. 2018 Jan 12;5(1):e000241. doi: 10.1136/lupus-2017-000241. 
eCollection 2018.

Very delayed lupus nephritis: a report of three cases and literature review.

Alexandre AR(1), Carreira PL(2), Isenberg DA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal and Intensive Medicine, Hospital da Luz, Lisboa, 
Portugal.
(2)Autoimmune Diseases Unit, Internal Medicine 7.2 Department, Hospital Curry 
Cabral, Centro Hospitalar Lisboa Central, Lisbon, Portugal.
(3)Centre for Rheumatology, University College London, London, UK.

Lupus nephritis (LN) affects up to 50% of patients with Systemic Lupus 
Erythematosus (SLE) and is associated with a worse prognosis. LN usually 
develops within the first 5 years of the onset of the disease. We report three 
patients with very delayed LN (DLN) diagnosed after 15 or more years after SLE 
diagnosis. The three patients were non-Caucasian women with adolescent or 
adult-onset SLE. Each had antinuclear, anti-dsDNA and anti-Ro antibodies. 
Hydroxychloroquine was prescribed for each. Their disease courses were 
characterised by sporadic non-renal flares controlled by steroids and, in two 
cases, by one cycle of rituximab. Unexpectedly, they developed proteinuria, 
haematuria and lowering of estimated glomerular filtration rate with clinical 
signs of renal disease. LN was confirmed by renal biopsy. Reviewing them, each 
showed serological signs of increasing disease activity (rising levels of 
anti-dsDNA antibodies and fall in C3) that predated clinical or laboratory signs 
of LN by 1-3 years. Reviewing the literature, we found a lack of knowledge about 
DLN starting more than 15 years after SLE diagnosis. With the increasing life 
expectancy of patients with SLE it is likely that more cases of very DLN will 
emerge.

DOI: 10.1136/lupus-2017-000241
PMCID: PMC5786908
PMID: 29387436

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


677. Sci Adv. 2018 Jan 24;4(1):e1701798. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.1701798. eCollection
 2018 Jan.

Superresolution and pulse-chase imaging reveal the role of vesicle transport in 
polar growth of fungal cells.

Zhou L(1)(2), Evangelinos M(3)(4)(5), Wernet V(3), Eckert AF(1), Ishitsuka 
Y(1)(6), Fischer R(3), Nienhaus GU(1)(2)(6)(7), Takeshita N(3)(8).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Applied Physics, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), 
Karlsruhe, Germany.
(2)Institute of Nanotechnology, KIT, Karlsruhe, Germany.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Institute for Applied Biosciences, KIT, 
Karlsruhe, Germany.
(4)Faculty of Biology, University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(5)Institut de Biologie et de Médecine Moléculaires, Université Libre de 
Bruxelles, Gosselies, Belgium.
(6)Department of Physics, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 
61801, USA.
(7)Institute of Toxicology and Genetics, KIT, Eggenstein-Leopoldshafen, Germany.
(8)Faculty of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, 
Japan.

Polarized growth of filamentous fungi requires continuous transport of 
biomolecules to the hyphal tip. To this end, construction materials are packaged 
in vesicles and transported by motor proteins along microtubules and actin 
filaments. We have studied these processes with quantitative superresolution 
localization microscopy of live Aspergillus nidulans cells expressing the 
photoconvertible protein mEosFPthermo fused to the chitin synthase ChsB. ChsB is 
mainly located at the Spitzenkörper near the hyphal tip and produces chitin, a 
key component of the cell wall. We have visualized the pulsatory dynamics of the 
Spitzenkörper, reflecting vesicle accumulation before exocytosis and their 
subsequent fusion with the apical plasma membrane. Furthermore, high-speed 
pulse-chase imaging after photoconversion of mEosFPthermo in a tightly focused 
spot revealed that ChsB is transported with two different speeds from the cell 
body to the hyphal tip and vice versa. Comparative analysis using motor protein 
deletion mutants allowed us to assign the fast movements (7 to 10 μm s-1) to 
transport of secretory vesicles by kinesin-1, and the slower ones (2 to 7 μm 
s-1) to transport by kinesin-3 on early endosomes. Our results show how motor 
proteins ensure the supply of vesicles to the hyphal tip, where temporally 
regulated exocytosis results in stepwise tip extension.

DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.1701798
PMCID: PMC5787382
PMID: 29387789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. BJU Int. 2018 Jul;122(1):50-58. doi: 10.1111/bju.14151. Epub 2018 Mar 8.

Cost-effectiveness of magnetic resonance imaging and targeted fusion biopsy for 
early detection of prostate cancer.

Barnett CL(1), Davenport MS(2), Montgomery JS(3), Wei JT(3), Montie JE(3), 
Denton BT(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Industrial and Operations Engineering, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(2)Department ofRadiology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(3)Department ofUrology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

Comment in
    BJU Int. 2018 Jul;122(1):1-2.

OBJECTIVE: To determine how best to use magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and 
targeted MRI/ultrasonography fusion biopsy for early detection of prostate 
cancer (PCa) in men with elevated prostate-specific antigen (PSA) concentrations 
and whether it can be cost-effective.
METHODS: A Markov model of PCa onset and progression was developed to estimate 
the health and economic consequences of PCa screening with MRI. Patients 
underwent PSA screening from ages 55 to 69 years. Patients with elevated PSA 
concentrations (>4 ng/mL) underwent MRI, followed by targeted fusion or combined 
(standard + targeted fusion) biopsy on positive MRI, and standard or no biopsy 
on negative MRI. Prostate Imaging Reporting and Data System (PI-RADS) score on 
MRI was used to determine biopsy decisions. Deaths averted, quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), cost and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) were 
estimated for each strategy.
RESULTS: With a negative MRI, standard biopsy was more expensive and had lower 
QALYs than performing no biopsy. The optimum screening strategy (ICER $23 
483/QALY) recommended combined biopsy for patients with PI-RADS score ≥3 and no 
biopsy for patients with PI-RADS score <3, and reduced the number of screening 
biopsies by 15%. Threshold analysis suggests MRI continues to be cost-effective 
when the sensitivity and specificity of MRI and combined biopsy are 
simultaneously reduced by 19 percentage points.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis suggests MRI followed by targeted MRI/ultrasonography 
fusion biopsy can be a cost-effective approach to the early detection of PCa.

© 2018 The Authors BJU International © 2018 BJU International Published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bju.14151
PMID: 29388388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. J Health Hum Serv Adm. 2016 Autumn;39(2):159-85.

Effect of GNI on Infant Mortality Rate in Low Income, Lower Middle Income, Upper 
Middle Income and High Income Countries.

Jalal S, Khan NU, Younis MZ.

Global disparities in health form a complex issue adversely affecting much of 
the world's population. What has been found is that national income and other 
general socio-economic factors are strong determinants of population health 
(Houweling, 2005 & Schell, 2007). In countries where resources are less, people 
are much less healthy than people living in rich countries. In wealthier 
countries that have made immense progress in health indicators, the resulting 
change in age structure and morbidity and mortality patterns portends even 
greater financial demands on the health sector. This study noted the trends in 
several health indicators versus economic indicators and related it to low 
income, lower middle income, upper middle income and high income countries. We 
noted that there is improvement in all health indicators along with an 
increasing GNI per Capita and GDP. In low income regions though, the rate of 
improvement is slower as opposed to high income countries. However, there is 
progress, which is leading to an increase in aging population.

PMID: 29388757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Nat Protoc. 2018 Mar;13(3):413-430. doi: 10.1038/nprot.2017.145. Epub 2018
Feb  1.

Genome editing of bread wheat using biolistic delivery of CRISPR/Cas9 in vitro 
transcripts or ribonucleoproteins.

Liang Z(1)(2), Chen K(1), Zhang Y(1)(2)(3), Liu J(1), Yin K(4), Qiu JL(4), Gao 
C(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Plant Cell and Chromosome Engineering, and Center for 
Genome Editing, Institute of Genetics and Developmental Biology, Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Plant Stress Research, College of Life Science, Shandong 
Normal University, Jinan, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Plant Genomics, Institute of Microbiology, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.

Comment on
    Nat Protoc. 2014 Oct;9(10):2395-410.

This protocol is an extension to: Nat. Protoc. 9, 2395-2410 (2014); 
doi:10.1038/nprot.2014.157; published online 18 September 2014In recent years, 
CRISPR/Cas9 has emerged as a powerful tool for improving crop traits. 
Conventional plant genome editing mainly relies on plasmid-carrying cassettes 
delivered by Agrobacterium or particle bombardment. Here, we describe DNA-free 
editing of bread wheat by delivering in vitro transcripts (IVTs) or 
ribonucleoprotein complexes (RNPs) of CRISPR/Cas9 by particle bombardment. This 
protocol serves as an extension of our previously published protocol on genome 
editing in bread wheat using CRISPR/Cas9 plasmids delivered by particle 
bombardment. The methods we describe not only eliminate random integration of 
CRISPR/Cas9 into genomic DNA, but also reduce off-target effects. In this 
protocol extension article, we present detailed protocols for preparation of 
IVTs and RNPs; validation by PCR/restriction enzyme (RE) and next-generation 
sequencing; delivery by biolistics; and recovery of mutants and identification 
of mutants by pooling methods and Sanger sequencing. To use these protocols, 
researchers should have basic skills and experience in molecular biology and 
biolistic transformation. By using these protocols, plants edited without the 
use of any foreign DNA can be generated and identified within 9-11 weeks.

DOI: 10.1038/nprot.2017.145
PMID: 29388938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Lancet Glob Health. 2018 Feb;6(2):e222-e228. doi:
10.1016/S2214-109X(17)30467-9.

Tranexamic acid for treatment of women with post-partum haemorrhage in Nigeria 
and Pakistan: a cost-effectiveness analysis of data from the WOMAN trial.

Li B(1), Miners A(2), Shakur H(3), Roberts I(3); WOMAN Trial Collaborators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK. Electronic address: bernadette.li@lshtm.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(3)Clinical Trials Unit, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, 
UK.

Comment in
    Lancet Glob Health. 2018 Feb;6(2):e132-e133.

BACKGROUND: Sub-Saharan Africa and southern Asia account for almost 85% of 
global maternal deaths from post-partum haemorrhage. Early administration of 
tranexamic acid, within 3 h of giving birth, was shown to reduce the risk of 
death due to bleeding in women with post-partum haemorrhage in the World 
Maternal Antifibrinolytic (WOMAN) trial. We aimed to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of early administration of tranexamic acid for treatment of 
post-partum haemorrhage.
METHODS: For this economic evaluation we developed a decision model to assess 
the cost-effectiveness of the addition of tranexamic acid to usual care for 
treatment of women with post-partum haemorrhage in Nigeria and Pakistan. We used 
data from the WOMAN trial to inform model parameters, supplemented by estimates 
from the literature. We estimated costs (calculated in 2016 US$), life-years, 
and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) with and without tranexamic acid, 
calculated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs), and compared these to 
threshold values in each country. Costs were assessed from the health-care 
provider perspective and discounted at 3% per year in the base case analysis. We 
did a series of one-way sensitivity analyses and probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis to assess the robustness of the results to parameter uncertainty.
FINDINGS: Early treatment of post-partum haemorrhage with tranexamic acid 
generated an average gain of 0·18 QALYs at an additional cost of $37·12 per 
patient in Nigeria and an average gain of 0·08 QALYs at an additional cost of 
$6·55 per patient in Pakistan. The base case ICER results were $208 per QALY in 
Nigeria and $83 per QALY in Pakistan. These ICERs were below the lower bound of 
the cost-effectiveness threshold range in both countries. The ICERs were most 
sensitive to uncertainty in parameter inputs for the relative risk of death due 
to bleeding with tranexamic acid, the discount rate, the cost of the drug, and 
the baseline probability of death due to bleeding.
INTERPRETATION: Early treatment of post-partum haemorrhage with tranexamic acid 
is highly cost-effective in Nigeria and Pakistan, and is likely to be 
cost-effective in countries in sub-Saharan Africa and southern Asia with a 
similar baseline risk of death due to bleeding.
FUNDING: London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, Pfizer, UK Department of 
Health, Wellcome Trust, and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2214-109X(17)30467-9
PMCID: PMC5785366
PMID: 29389542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Food Res Int. 2018 Jan;103:415-425. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2017.10.068. Epub
 2017 Oct 31.

Evaluation of spoilage potential and volatile metabolites production by 
Shewanella baltica isolated from modified atmosphere packaged live mussels.

Odeyemi OA(1), Burke CM(2), Bolch CJS(2), Stanley R(3).

Author information:
(1)Ecology and Biodiversity Centre, Institute for Marine and Antarctic Studies 
(IMAS), University of Tasmania, Launceston, Australia. Electronic address: 
olumide.odeyemi@utas.edu.au.
(2)Ecology and Biodiversity Centre, Institute for Marine and Antarctic Studies 
(IMAS), University of Tasmania, Launceston, Australia.
(3)Centre for Food Innovation, Tasmania Institute of Agriculture (TIA), 
University of Tasmania, Launceston, Australia.

Under the current commercial practice, live mussels only have 10days' 
shelf-life. Observed spoilage indices reduce consumers' acceptance, palatability 
and shelf-life of modified atmosphere packaged (MAP) live mussels. The aims of 
this study are to isolate specific spoilage bacteria from modified atmosphere 
packaged live mussels, evaluate isolates for microbial spoilage indices using 
qualitative methods and volatile metabolites production. Forty-six hydrogen 
sulphide producing bacteria were isolated and evaluated for trimethylamine 
n-oxide (TMAO) reduction, proteolytic and lipolytic activities and hydrogen 
sulphide production. Twenty-eight isolates were obtained from pouch water and 18 
from mussel meat. All the isolates could produce H2S on Iron agar at 25°C while 
30/46 produced H2S at 4°C and tolerate 0-6% NaCl. Four (4/46) isolates could not 
hydrolyse mussel protein. Over 80% isolates reduced TMAO to TMA in 3days with 
the production of H2S. Results of this study shows hydrogen sulphide producing 
bacteria isolated from MAP live mussels produce microbial spoilage indices. 
Isolate with highest enzymatic activities and hydrogen sulphide production was 
identified as Shewanella baltica using 16S rRNA gene. Axenic culture of the 
isolate was inoculated into sterile mussel broth. Inoculated sample was further 
stored at 4°C for 10days for spoilage study. Volatile metabolites produced 
during storage were evaluated using headspace solid phase micro-extraction gas 
chromatography mass spectrometry (HS-SPME GC/MS). A total of 44 compounds were 
identified in the sample after 10days while 27 compounds were identified in 
inoculated mussel broth. Group of compounds identified are alcohols, aldehydes, 
phenol, furans, ketone, esters, organic acid, aromatic hydrocarbons, alkanes, 
nitrogen and sulphur containing compounds. Dimethyl trisulphide, methyl-phenol, 
3,5-octadiene and thiohexene were unique to inoculated mussel broth. 
Understanding spoilage mechanism and attendant spoilage indices will help in 
designing effective mussel quality protocols and shelf-life extension.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2017.10.068
PMID: 29389632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. J Clin Invest. 2018 Apr 2;128(4):1688-1706. doi: 10.1172/JCI96342. Epub 2018
Mar  12.

Tuberous sclerosis complex-associated CNS abnormalities depend on 
hyperactivation of mTORC1 and Akt.

Zordan P(1), Cominelli M(2), Cascino F(1), Tratta E(2), Poliani PL(2), Galli 
R(1).

Author information:
(1)Neural Stem Cell Biology Unit, Division of Regenerative Medicine, Stem Cells 
and Gene Therapy, San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy.
(2)Pathology Unit, Molecular and Translational Medicine Department, University 
of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.

Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a dominantly inherited disease caused by 
hyperactivation of the mTORC1 pathway and characterized by the development of 
hamartomas and benign tumors, including in the brain. Among the neurological 
manifestations associated with TSC, the tumor progression of static subependymal 
nodules (SENs) into subependymal giant cell astrocytomas (SEGAs) is one of the 
major causes of morbidity and shortened life expectancy. To date, mouse modeling 
has failed in reproducing these 2 lesions. Here we report that simultaneous 
hyperactivation of mTORC1 and Akt pathways by codeletion of Tsc1 and Pten, 
selectively in postnatal neural stem cells (pNSCs), is required for the 
formation of bona fide SENs and SEGAs. Notably, both lesions closely 
recapitulate the pathognomonic morphological and molecular features of the 
corresponding human abnormalities. The establishment of long-term expanding pNSC 
lines from mouse SENs and SEGAs made possible the identification of mTORC2 as 
one of the mediators conferring tumorigenic potential to SEGA pNSCs. Notably, in 
spite of concurrent Akt hyperactivation in mouse brain lesions, single mTOR 
inhibition by rapamycin was sufficient to strongly impair mouse SEGA growth. 
This study provides evidence that, concomitant with mTORC1 hyperactivation, 
sustained activation of Akt and mTORC2 in pNSCs is a mandatory step for the 
induction of SENs and SEGAs, and, at the same time, makes available an 
unprecedented NSC-based in vivo/in vitro model to be exploited for identifying 
actionable targets in TSC.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI96342
PMCID: PMC5873854
PMID: 29389670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors have declared 
that no conflict of interest exists.


684. Curr Opin Rheumatol. 2018 May;30(3):288-294. doi:
10.1097/BOR.0000000000000492.

Rheumatoid arthritis treatment in patients with a history of cancer.

Regierer AC(1), Strangfeld A.

Author information:
(1)Deutsches Rheuma-Forschungszentrum Berlin, Epidemiology Unit, Charitéplatz 1, 
Berlin, Germany.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: What is the best treatment option in patients with active 
rheumatoid arthritis who have a history of malignant disease? Rheumatologists 
are increasingly faced with this question in their daily practice. As 
uncontrolled high disease activity is an important risk factor for further 
comorbidities and shortened life expectancy, the treatment has to be effective, 
without bearing a higher risk for cancer recurrence. What data is available 
today to guide treatment decisions and how robust is its evidence?
RECENT FINDINGS: As patients with prior cancer are usually not included in 
randomized controlled trials, all data we have to elucidate this topic stems 
from observational cohort studies, mainly biologics registers established in 
several European countries. The registries investigated the risk of recurrence 
of cancer mainly by comparing treatments with csDMARDs and TNF inhibitors. Few 
results are available so far for the treatment with rituximab. However, because 
of their observational design, the data can only reflect current clinical 
practice. Because of the lack of evidence, questions such as: are biologics soon 
after cancer diagnosis safe, remain.
SUMMARY: There is still insufficient data for patients with a very recent 
history of cancer. However, in patients with cancer being in longer remission, 
observational data suggest no increased risk of overall cancer recurrence when 
they are treated either with TNF inhibitors or rituximab.

DOI: 10.1097/BOR.0000000000000492
PMID: 29389831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. PLoS One. 2018 Feb 1;13(2):e0190943. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0190943. 
eCollection 2018.

Mortality and years of life lost by colorectal cancer attributable to physical 
inactivity in Brazil (1990-2015): Findings from the Global Burden of Disease 
Study.

Silva DAS(1), Tremblay MS(2), Souza MFM(3), Mooney M(4), Naghavi M(4), Malta 
DC(5).

Author information:
(1)Research Center in Kinanthropometry and Human Performance, Federal University 
of Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil.
(2)Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Research Institute, Ottawa, ON, 
Canada.
(3)Department of Surveillance of Noncommunicable Diseases, and Injuries, and 
Health Promotion, Ministry of Health, Brasília, DF, Brazil.
(4)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, United Sates of America.
(5)Department of Maternal and Child Nursing and Public Health, School of 
Nursing, Federal University of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: The aims of this study were to estimate all-cause and 
cause-specific mortality and years of life lost, investigated by 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs), due to colorectal cancer attributable to 
physical inactivity in Brazil and in the states; to analyze the temporal trend 
of these estimates over 25 years (1990-2015) compared with global estimates and 
according to the socioeconomic status of states of Brazil.
METHODS: Databases from the Global Burden of Disease Study (GBD) for Brazil, 
Brazilian states and global information were used. It was estimated the total 
number and the age-standardized rates of deaths and DALYs for colorectal cancer 
attributable to physical inactivity in the years 1990 and 2015. We used the 
Socioeconomic Development Index (SDI).
RESULTS: Physical inactivity was responsible for a substantial number of deaths 
(1990: 1,302; 2015: 119,351) and DALYs (1990: 31,121; 2015: 87,116) due to 
colorectal cancer in Brazil. From 1990 to 2015, the mortality and DALYs due to 
colorectal cancer attributable to physical inactivity increased in Brazil (0.6% 
and 0.6%, respectively) and decreased around the world (-0.8% and -1.1%, 
respectively). The Brazilian states with better socioeconomic indicators had 
higher rates of mortality and morbidity by colorectal cancer due to physical 
inactivity (p<0.01). Physical inactivity was responsible for deaths and DALYs 
due to colorectal cancer in Brazil.
CONCLUSIONS: Over 25 years, the Brazilian population showed more worrisome 
results than around the world. Actions to combat physical inactivity and greater 
cancer screening and treatment are urgent in the Brazilian states.
