A cost-utility analysis of transcatheter versus surgical aortic valve 
replacement for the treatment of aortic stenosis in the population with 
intermediate surgical risk.

Tam DY(1), Hughes A(2), Fremes SE(1), Youn S(3), Hancock-Howard RL(3), Coyte 
PC(3), Wijeysundera HC(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiac Surgery, Schulich Heart Centre, Department of Surgery, 
Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada; Institute of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Institute of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Program of Child Health Evaluative Services, The 
Hospital for Sick Children, Peter Gilgan Centre For Research and Learning, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Institute of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Institute of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Program of Child Health Evaluative Services, The 
Hospital for Sick Children, Peter Gilgan Centre For Research and Learning, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Division of Cardiology, 
Schulich Heart Centre, Department of Medicine, Sunnybrook Health Sciences 
Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: 
harindra.wijeysundera@sunnybrook.ca.

Comment in
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2018 May;155(5):1989-1990.
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2018 May;155(5):1977.
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2018 May;155(5):1991-1999.
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2018 May;155(5):1985-1988.
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2018 Nov;156(5):1851.
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2018 Nov;156(5):1853.

OBJECTIVE: Although transcatheter aortic valve implantation has been shown to be 
noninferior to surgical aortic valve replacement in patients with severe aortic 
stenosis at intermediate surgical risk, the cost-effectiveness of this strategy 
in this population is unknown. Our objective was to conduct a cost-utility 
analysis comparing transcatheter aortic valve implantation with surgical aortic 
valve replacement in the population with intermediate risk severe aortic 
stenosis.
METHODS: A fully probabilistic Markov model with 30-day cycles was constructed 
from the Canadian third-party payer's perspective to estimate the difference in 
cost and effectiveness (measured as quality-adjusted life years) of 
transcatheter aortic valve implantation versus surgical aortic valve replacement 
for intermediate-risk patients over a lifetime time horizon, discounted at 1.5% 
per annum. Clinical trial data from The Placement of Aortic Transcatheter Valve 
2 informed the efficacy inputs. Costs (adjusted to 2016 Canadian dollars) were 
obtained from the Canadian Institute of Health Information and the Ontario 
Schedule of Benefits. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, total lifetime costs for transcatheter 
aortic valve implantation were $10,548 higher than surgical aortic valve 
replacement but added 0.23 quality-adjusted life years, for an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $46,083/quality-adjusted life-years gained. 
Deterministic 1-way analyses showed that the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio was sensitive to rates of complications and cost of the transcatheter 
aortic valve implantation prosthesis. There was moderate-to-high parameter 
uncertainty; transcatheter aortic valve implantation was the preferred option in 
only 52.7% and 55.4% of the simulations at a $50,000 and $100,000 per 
quality-adjusted life years willingness-to-pay thresholds, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of current evidence, transcatheter aortic valve 
implantation may be cost-effective for the treatment of severe aortic stenosis 
in patients with intermediate surgical risk. There remains moderate-to-high 
uncertainty surrounding the base-case incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.

Copyright © 2018 The American Association for Thoracic Surgery. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2017.11.112
PMID: 29454487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Am J Emerg Med. 2018 May;36(5):907.e5-907.e9. doi:
10.1016/j.ajem.2018.01.076.  Epub 2018 Feb 3.

Group C strep mediastinitis.

Kotora JG(1), Schmieler EJ(2), McEvoy CS(3), Noble SL(4).

Author information:
(1)100 Brewster Blvd, Camp Lejeune, NC 28547, United States. Electronic address: 
joseph.g.kotora.mil@mail.mil.
(2)620 John Paul Jones Circle, Portsmouth VA 23708, United States. Electronic 
address: Eschmie@g.clemson.edu.
(3)620 John Paul Jones Circle, Portsmouth VA 23708, United States. Electronic 
address: christian.s.mcevoy.mil@mail.mil.
(4)620 John Paul Jones Circle, Portsmouth VA 23708, United States. Electronic 
address: stephen.l.noble.mil@mail.mil.

This case is significant to the practice of emergency medicine because it 
represents the development of an uncommon and potentially fatal mediastinal 
infection from a commonly encountered and appropriately treated community 
respiratory pathogen. Most published reports on mediastinitis are those that are 
status-post cardiothoracic surgery. In our report, we discuss a case of a 
healthy, young individual who developed this morbid entity from extension of a 
simple respiratory infection where Group C Streptococcus has been isolated as 
the causative organism, which to our knowledge has not been previously reported. 
Further, this report outlines how a community acquired pneumonia progressed to a 
life threatening illness despite proper initial treatment per local and national 
guidelines.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajem.2018.01.076
PMID: 29454509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2018 May-Jun;76:48-53. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2018.01.012. Epub 2018 Feb 10.

The impact of infection on mortality in octogenarians who were admitted due to 
acute coronary syndrome.

Keskin K(1), Çetinkal G(2), Sığırcı S(3), Yıldız SS(4), Çetin Ş(5), Gürdal A(6), 
Kocaş BB(7), Kılıçkesmez KO(8).

Author information:
(1)Şişli Hamidiye Etfal Education and Research Hospital, Department of 
Cardiology, Cardiologist, Turkey. Electronic address: 
Kudret.Keskin@sislietfal.gov.tr.
(2)Şişli Hamidiye Etfal Education and Research Hospital, Department of 
Cardiology, Cardiologist, Turkey. Electronic address: 
Gokhan.Cetinkal@sislietfal.gov.tr.
(3)Şişli Hamidiye Etfal Education and Research Hospital, Department of 
Cardiology, Cardiologist, Turkey. Electronic address: 
Serhat.Sigirci@sislietfal.gov.tr.
(4)Şişli Hamidiye Etfal Education and Research Hospital, Department of 
Cardiology, Cardiologist, Turkey. Electronic address: 
SuleymanSezai.Yildiz@sislietfal.gov.tr.
(5)Şişli Hamidiye Etfal Education and Research Hospital, Department of 
Cardiology, Cardiologist, Turkey. Electronic address: 
Sukru.Cetin@sislietfal.gov.tr.
(6)Şişli Hamidiye Etfal Education and Research Hospital, Department of 
Cardiology, Cardiologist, Turkey. Electronic address: 
Ahmet.Gurdal@sislietfal.gov.tr.
(7)Şişli Hamidiye Etfal Education and Research Hospital, Department of 
Cardiology, Cardiologist, Turkey. Electronic address: 
Betul.Balaban@sislietfal.gov.tr.
(8)Şişli Hamidiye Etfal Education and Research Hospital, Department of 
Cardiology, Cardiologist, Turkey. Electronic address: 
Kadriye.Kilickesmez@sbu.edu.tr.

BACKGROUND: The prevalence of coronary artery disease is on the rise as the life 
expectancy of the population increases. However, treatment of acute coronary 
syndrome in the elderly patients has its own problems that have not been 
thoroughly addressed in the clinical trials. Since these patients are generally 
fragile and have multiple co-morbidities, the course of acute coronary syndrome 
can frequently be complicated. Infection, which co-exists either at the initial 
presentation or is acquired during the hospital stay, is a condition about which 
there is little published data. Therefore, in our study, we wanted to assess the 
impact of infection on mortality in octogenarians who have acute coronary 
syndrome METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed the data of 174 octogenarians who 
had been admitted to the coronary care unit with acute coronary syndrome. 
All-cause mortality was defined as the primary endpoint of the study.
RESULTS: Overall 53 octogenarian patients (30.5%) had an infection along with 
acute coronary syndrome. The mean duration of follow-up was 10 months (1-25 
months). Both in-hospital and long-term mortality were higher in these patients 
(18.9% vs 6.6%, p = 0.01; 52.8% vs 27.5%, p < 0.01; respectively). Kaplan-Meier 
analysis also showed lower cumulative survival. (p [log-rank] = 0.002). In 
multivariate Cox regression analysis; undergoing coronary angiography, infection 
(HR 1.96, 95% CI 1.15-3.34, p = 0.01), left ventricular ejection fraction and 
maximum C reactive protein levels were found as independent predictors of 
long-term survival.
CONCLUSION: Infection in octogenarians who were admitted due to acute coronary 
syndrome was frequent and increased their mortality substantially.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2018.01.012
PMID: 29455059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Mol Cancer. 2018 Feb 19;17(1):49. doi: 10.1186/s12943-018-0780-6.

Chronic myeloid leukemia: the paradigm of targeting oncogenic tyrosine kinase 
signaling and counteracting resistance for successful cancer therapy.

Soverini S(1), Mancini M(2), Bavaro L(2), Cavo M(2), Martinelli G(2).

Author information:
(1)Hematology/Oncology "L. e A. Seràgnoli", Department of Experimental, 
Diagnostic and Specialty Medicine, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy. 
simona.soverini@unibo.it.
(2)Hematology/Oncology "L. e A. Seràgnoli", Department of Experimental, 
Diagnostic and Specialty Medicine, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.

Deregulated activity of BCR-ABL1, a nonreceptor tyrosine kinase encoded by the 
fusion gene resulting from the t(9;22)(q34;q11) chromosomal translocation, is 
thought to be the driver event responsible for initiation and maintenance of 
chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). BCR-ABL1 was one of the first tyrosine kinases 
to be implicated in a human malignancy and the first to be successfully 
targeted. Imatinib mesylate, the first tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) to be 
approved for therapeutic use, was hailed as a magic bullet against cancer and 
remains one of the safest and most effective anticancer agents ever developed. 
Second- and third-generation TKIs were later introduced to prevent or counteract 
the problem of drug resistance, that may arise in a small proportion of 
patients. They are more potent molecules, but have been associated to more 
serious side effects and complications. Patients achieving stable optimal 
responses to TKI therapy are predicted to have the same life expectancy of the 
general population. However, TKIs do not 'cure' CML. Only a small proportion of 
cases may attempt therapy discontinuation without experiencing subsequent 
relapse. The great majority of patients will have to assume TKIs indefinitely - 
which raises serious pharmacoeconomic concerns and is now shifting the focus 
from efficacy to compliance and quality of life issues. Here we retrace the 
steps that have led from the biological acquisitions regarding BCR-ABL1 
structure and function to the development of inhibitory strategies and we 
discuss drug resistance mechanism and how they can be addressed.

DOI: 10.1186/s12943-018-0780-6
PMCID: PMC5817796
PMID: 29455643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: SS, 
GM: consultancy and honoraria from Incyte Biosciences, Novartis, Bristol-Myers 
Squibb. LB, MM, MC: no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature 
remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and 
institutional affiliations.


890. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2018 Jan;34(2):147-155. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462317004524. Epub 2018 Feb 19.

COST-UTILITY ANALYSIS OF PRIVATE CONTRACTING TO REDUCE PUBLIC WAITING TIMES FOR 
JOINT REPLACEMENT SURGERY.

Karnon J(1), Haghighi BM(2), Sajjad B(2), Yem S(2), Gamage A(2), Thorpe A(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health,University of 
Adelaidejonathan.karnon@adelaide.edu.au.
(2)School of Public Health,University of Adelaide.

OBJECTIVES: Earlier treatment of publicly funded patients may achieve health 
gains that justify the additional costs of reducing waiting times. This study 
reports on the cost-effectiveness of implementing a private contracting model to 
meet alternative maximum waiting time targets for publicly funded patients 
undergoing total knee replacement surgery in Australia.
METHODS: A linked decision tree and cohort Markov model was developed and 
populated and validated using secondary data sources to represent the pathways, 
costs, and quality adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained of non-urgent patients 
with alternative waiting times for total knee replacement surgery to a maximum 
age of 100 years.
RESULTS: Assuming public waiting times are reduced through the purchase of 
private services, additional QALYs are gained at an incremental cost of less 
than $40,000. Value could be increased if lower private prices could be 
negotiated. Results are also sensitive to the rate of deterioration in function 
while waiting for surgery and the impact of functional status at the time of 
surgery on postsurgery outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: More evidence on the value of expanded capacity or new models of 
care may inform new funding models to support such investments and reduced 
prices for new technologies, leading to more efficient and sustainable publicly 
funded healthcare systems.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462317004524
PMID: 29455686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Saudi J Kidney Dis Transpl. 2018 Jan-Feb;29(1):140-144. doi: 
10.4103/1319-2442.225195.

Importance of renal biopsy in patients aged 60 years and older: Experience from 
a tertiary care hospital.

Gupta P(1), Rana DS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi, India.
(2)Department of Nephrology, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi, India.

As the life expectancy is increasing, there is a rise in elderly population and 
consequent increase in the patients with renal disease. There is an 
inconsistency between clinical and histopathological diagnosis in elderly, and 
so renal biopsy is important in these patients to decide appropriate clinical 
management and prognosis. This study outlines the importance of renal biopsy in 
elderly and describes the clinical and pathologic spectrum of renal diseases in 
patient ≥60 years. All patients (age ≥60 years) undergoing renal biopsies from 
January 2011 to December 2014 were included in this retrospective study. The 
clinical presentation and biochemical findings were recorded, and the patients 
were grouped based on their clinical presentation. Renal biopsies were also 
evaluated. The mean age of patients was 67.7 ± 6.4 years with a male:female 
ratio of 3:1. The most common clinical manifestation was nephrotic syndrome 
(37.4%) followed by rapidly progressive renal failure (RPRF) (20.6%). 
Amyloidosis and membranous nephropathy were two most common diagnoses in 
patients with nephrotic presentation whereas pauci-immune crescentic 
glomerulonephritis and cast nephropathy were common in patients presenting with 
RPRF. Clinical diagnosis differed from the histopathological diagnosis in 32% 
cases of nephrotic syndrome. There was good agreement between clinical diagnosis 
and histology in cases with RPRF. In 73% cases of elderly with (Type II) 
diabetes suspected of having nondiabetic renal disease clinically, renal biopsy 
showed evidence of diabetic nephropathy. Renal biopsy is essential in the 
diagnosis of renal diseases even in elderly. Amyloidosis and membranous 
nephropathy are common causes of nephrotic syndrome in elderly. Renal biopsy is 
very useful in diagnosing cast nephropathy and amyloidosis as they are not 
suspected clinically. It is also helpful in elderly diabetics without 
retinopathy to differentiate between diabetic and nondiabetic kidney diseases.

DOI: 10.4103/1319-2442.225195
PMID: 29456220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


892. J Food Saf. 2018 Feb;38(1):e12392. doi: 10.1111/jfs.12392. Epub 2017 Aug 25.

Effects of natural antimicrobials with modified atmosphere packaging on the 
growth kinetics of Listeria monocytogenes in ravioli at various temperatures.

Ro EY(1), Kim GS(1), Kwon DY(1), Park YM(1), Cho SW(1), Lee SY(1), Yeo IH(1), 
Yoon KS(2).

Author information:
(1)R&D Center for Food Technology Pulmuone Co., Ltd Seoul South Korea.
(2)Department of Food and Nutrition Kyung Hee University Seoul South Korea.

The objective of this study was to investigate the antimicrobial effects of 
cultured sugar/vinegar (CSV) blend and nisin to control the risk of Listeria 
monocytogenes in ready to cook (RTC) ravioli. Ravioli dough was prepared with 
0.1, 0.3, 0.5, 1% CSV blend and 0.1, 0.2, and 0.3% nisin. Inoculated spinach or 
artichoke raviolis with 2.0 ± 0.5 log cfu/g of L. monocytogenes were packed 
aerobically or using modified atmosphere packaging (MAP), and then stored at 4, 
10, 17, and 24 °C for 60 days. Growth kinetic parameters of the observed data 
fit well to the Baranyi equation. Ravioli with spinach filling materials yielded 
a higher risk than that with artichoke. L. monocytogenes was able to survive in 
ravioli with artichoke, but did not grow. The addition of 1% CSV blend or 0.3% 
nisin in spinach ravioli with the combination of MAP effectively controlled the 
growth of L. monocytogenes at the temperature below 10 °C. The organoleptic 
quality of spinach ravioli was not also affected by the application of 1% CSV 
blend. Therefore, the CSV blend can be recommended to improve the microbial 
safety and quality of natural RTC ravioli at retail market.
PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS: The risk of ravioli was affected by the filling 
materials of ravioli at retail market. Addition of 1% cultured sugar/vinegar 
blend in dough substantially contributes to the extension of shelf-life of MAP 
spinach raviolis. classification and regression tree analysis results indicate 
that refrigeration temperature is the main control factor to affect lag time and 
growth rate, while packaging method is critical for maximum population density.

DOI: 10.1111/jfs.12392
PMCID: PMC5811900
PMID: 29456276


893. PeerJ. 2018 Feb 13;6:e4376. doi: 10.7717/peerj.4376. eCollection 2018.

Calibration adjustments to address bias in mortality analyses due to informative 
sampling-a census-linked survey analysis in Switzerland.

Moser A(1)(2), Bopp M(3), Zwahlen M(2); Swiss National Cohort study group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Inselspital, University Hospital, and University of 
Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(2)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Bern, Bern, 
Switzerland.
(3)Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Prevention Institute, University of Zürich, 
Zürich, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Sampling bias, like survey participants' nonresponse, needs to be 
adequately addressed in the analysis of sampling designs. Often survey weights 
will be calibrated on specific covariates related to the probability of 
selection and nonresponse to get representative population estimates. However, 
such calibrated survey (CS) weights are usually constructed for cross-sectional 
results, but not for longitudinal analyses. For example, when the outcome of 
interest is time to death, and sampling selection is related to time to death 
and censoring, sampling is informative. Then, unweighted or CS weighted 
inferential statistical analyses may be biased. In 2010, Switzerland changed 
from a decennial full enumeration census to a yearly registry-based (i.e., data 
from harmonised community registries) and a survey-based census system. In the 
present study, we investigated the potential bias due to informative sampling 
when time to death is the outcome of interest, using data from the new Swiss 
census system.
METHODS: We analysed more than 6.5 million individuals aged 15 years or older 
from registry-based census data from years 2010 to 2013, linked with mortality 
records up to end of 2014. Out of this population, a target sample of 3.5% was 
sampled from the Swiss Federal Statistical Office (SFSO) in a stratified yearly 
micro census. The SFSO calculated CS weights to enable representative population 
estimates from the micro census. We additionally constructed inverse probability 
(IP) weights, where we used survival information in addition to known sampling 
covariates. We compared CS and IP weighted mortality rates (MR) and life 
expectancy (LE) with estimates from the underlying population. Additionally, we 
performed a simulation study under different sampling and nonresponse scenarios.
RESULTS: We found that individuals who died in 2011, had a 0.67 (95% CI 
[0.64-0.70]) times lower odds of participating in the 2010 micro census, using a 
multivariable logistic regression model with covariates age, gender, 
nationality, civil status, region and survival information. IP weighted MR were 
comparable to estimates from the total population, whereas CS weighted MR 
underestimated the population MR in general. The IP weighted LE estimates at age 
30 years for men were 50.9 years (95% CI [50.2-51.6] years), whereas the CS 
weighted overestimated LE by 2.5 years. Our results from the simulation study 
confirmed that IP weighted models are comparable to population estimates.
CONCLUSION: Mortality analyses based on the new Swiss survey-based census system 
may be biased, because of informative sampling. We conclude that mortality 
analyses based on census-linked survey data have to be carefully conducted, and 
if possible, validated by registry information to allow for unbiased 
interpretation and generalisation.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.4376
PMCID: PMC5815334
PMID: 29456895

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing 
interests.


894. Zhongguo Gu Shang. 2017 Oct 25;30(10):933-939. doi: 
10.3969/j.issn.1003-0034.2017.10.011.

[Meta-analysis of the efficacy and safety of PFNA and InterTAN for the treatment 
of intertrochanteric fractures].

[Article in Chinese]

Shi JJ(1), Wang YZ(2), Li Y(2), Gao YP(2), Wang D(2), Wang ZY(2), Zhang ZQ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, the Second Hospital of Shanxi Medical University, 
Taiyuan 030001, Shanxi, China; stonejjs@126.com.
(2)Department of Orthopaedics, the Second Hospital of Shanxi Medical University, 
Taiyuan 030001, Shanxi, China.

OBJECTIVE: To system evaluate the clinical effect and safety of PFNA and 
InterTAN internal fixation methods for femoral intertrochanteric fracture.
METHODS: According to the Cochrane systemic analysis method, randomized 
controlled trials and quasi-randomized controlled trials which were about the 
comparison of PFNA and InterTAN for intertrochanteric fracture were collected 
from Cochrane Library(2017, issue 4), PubMed (January, 2003-May, 2017), Wanfang 
Med Online (January, 2003-May, 2017) and China Academic Journals Full-text 
Database(January, 2003-May, 2017) by computer searching. Cross-checking was done 
after assessing the quality of the included trials and extracting the data by 
two reviewers independently. Data analysis were performed with RevMan 5.3.
RESULTS: Two randomized controlled trials and five quasi-randomized controlled 
trials involving 611 cases met the inclusion criteria. The meta-analyses showed 
no significant differences between the two methods on Harris scores[MD=-1.00, 
95%CI(-2.29, 0.28), P=0.13], union time[MD=0.04, 95%CI (-0.70, 0.77), P=0.92], 
full weight-bearing time[MD=1.06, 95%CI(-0.29, 2.42), P=0.13], hospital 
stay[MD=-0.04, 95%CI (-0.52, 0.45), P=0.89] and length of incision[MD=-1.00, 
95%CI (-2.64, 0.65), P=0.23]. There were significant differences between the two 
methods on operative time[MD=-25.75, 95%CI (-37.47, -14.03), P<0.000 1], 
intraoperative blood loss[MD=-55.67, 95%CI(-108.07, -3.27), P=0.04] and the 
internal fixation complication rate[MD=4.17, 95%CI (1.33, 13.08), P=0.01].
CONCLUSIONS: Both PFNA and InterTAN could provide good effect for 
intertrochanteric fracture. The operation time of PFNA is shorter than that of 
InterTAN, and there is less blood loss during operation. PFNA may be the first 
choice for the treatment of patients who have many complications and can't 
endure long-time operation. The complications of PFNA are more than those of 
InterTAN. In patients with long life expectancy and high requirements, InterTAN 
may be preferentially selected to reduce complications. According to the 
patient's situation, after a comprehensive consideration, appropriate treatment 
can be selected.

DOI: 10.3969/j.issn.1003-0034.2017.10.011
PMID: 29457416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this article and the planning 
committee members and staff have no relevant financial relationships with 
commercial interests to disclose.


895. Health Technol Assess. 2018 Feb;22(10):1-104. doi: 10.3310/hta22100.

Training nurses in a competency framework to support adults with epilepsy and 
intellectual disability: the EpAID cluster RCT.

Ring H(1)(2)(3), Howlett J(4), Pennington M(5), Smith C(1), Redley M(1)(3)(6), 
Murphy C(7), Hook R(1), Platt A(1), Gilbert N(1), Jones E(1)(2), Kelly J(7), 
Pullen A(8)(9), Mander A(4), Donaldson C(10), Rowe S(11), Wason J(7), Irvine 
F(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(2)Cambridgeshire and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, UK.
(3)National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Collaboration for Leadership in 
Applied Health Research and Care (CLAHRC) East of England, Cambridge, UK.
(4)Medical Research Council (MRC) Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge Institute of 
Public Health, Cambridge, UK.
(5)King's Health Economics, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and 
Neuroscience, King's College London, London, UK.
(6)Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK.
(7)King's Clinical Trials Unit, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, 
London, UK.
(8)Epilepsy Action, Leeds, UK.
(9)NHS Leeds West Clinical Commissioning Group, Leeds, UK.
(10)Yunus Centre for Social Business and Health, Glasgow Caledonian University, 
Glasgow, UK.
(11)NHS Wakefield Clinical Commissioning Group, Wakefield, UK.
(12)School of Health and Population Science, College of Medical and Dental 
Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

BACKGROUND: People with an intellectual (learning) disability (ID) and epilepsy 
have an increased seizure frequency, higher frequencies of multiple 
antiepileptic drug (AED) use and side effects, higher treatment costs, higher 
mortality rates and more behavioural problems than the rest of the population 
with epilepsy. The introduction of nurse-led care may lead to improvements in 
outcome for those with an ID and epilepsy; however, this has not been tested in 
a definitive clinical trial.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether or not ID nurses, using a competency framework 
developed to optimise nurse management of epilepsy in people with an ID, can 
cost-effectively improve clinical and quality-of-life outcomes in the management 
of epilepsy compared with treatment as usual.
DESIGN: Cluster-randomised two-arm trial.
SETTING: Community-based secondary care delivered by members of community ID 
teams.
PARTICIPANTS: Participants were adults aged 18-65 years with an ID and epilepsy 
under the care of a community ID team and had had at least one seizure in the 6 
months before the trial.
INTERVENTIONS: The experimental intervention was the Learning Disability 
Epilepsy Specialist Nurse Competency Framework. This provides guidelines 
describing a structure and goals to support the delivery of epilepsy care and 
management by ID-trained nurses.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was the seizure severity scale from 
the Epilepsy and Learning Disabilities Quality of Life questionnaire. Measures 
of mood, behaviour, AED side effects and carer strain were also collected. A 
cost-utility analysis was undertaken along with a qualitative examination of 
carers' views of participants' epilepsy management.
RESULTS: In total, 312 individuals were recruited into the study from 17 
research clusters. Using an intention-to-treat analysis controlling for baseline 
individual-level and cluster-level variables there was no significant difference 
in seizure severity score between the two arms. Altogether, 238 complete cases 
were included in the non-imputed primary analysis. Analyses of the secondary 
outcomes revealed no significant differences between arms. A planned subgroup 
analysis identified a significant interaction between treatment arm and level of 
ID. There was a suggestion in those with mild to moderate ID that the competency 
framework may be associated with a small reduction in concerns over seizure 
severity (standard error 2.005, 95% confidence interval -0.554 to 7.307; 
p = 0.092). However, neither subgroup showed a significant intervention effect 
individually. Family members' perceptions of nurses' management depended on the 
professional status of the nurses, regardless of trial arm. Economic analysis 
suggested that the competency framework intervention was likely to be 
cost-effective, primarily because of a reduction in the costs of supporting 
participants compared with treatment as usual.
LIMITATIONS: The intervention could not be delivered blinded. Treatment as usual 
varied widely between the research sites.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, for adults with an ID and epilepsy, the framework 
conferred no clinical benefit compared with usual treatment. The economic 
analysis suggested that there may be a role for the framework in enhancing the 
cost-effectiveness of support for people with epilepsy and an ID. Future 
research could explore the specific value of the competency framework for those 
with a mild to moderate ID and the potential for greater long-term benefits 
arising from the continuing professional development element of the framework.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN96895428.
FUNDING: This trial was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment 
programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 
22, No. 10. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project 
information.

DOI: 10.3310/hta22100
PMCID: PMC6485678
PMID: 29457585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: During the preparation of this report Howard 
Ring was the chairperson of the Health Technology Assessment Mental, 
Psychological and Occupational Health Panel and he was a member of the 
Psychological and Community Therapies Panel during the project. Cam Donaldson 
was a member of the Medical Research Council Methodology Research Panel.


896. AIDS Care. 2018 Jul;30(7):871-878. doi: 10.1080/09540121.2018.1441971. Epub
2018  Feb 19.

The experience and management of HIV stigma among HIV-negative adults in 
heterosexual serodiscordant relationships in New York City.

Siegel K(1), Meunier É(1), Lekas HM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Sociomedical Sciences , Columbia University Mailman School of 
Public Health , New York , NY , USA.
(2)b Nathan Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research , Orangeburg , NY , USA.

Despite treatment advances that have improved the health and life expectancy of 
HIV-positive people and contribute to the prevention of HIV transmission, HIV 
stigma is still frequently experienced by HIV-infected individuals and those 
close to them. This study investigated the types of HIV-related stigma 
experienced by HIV-negative adults in serodiscordant heterosexual relationships 
when their partner's HIV-positive status was revealed to family and friends and 
their strategies to manage such stigma. In-depth interviews were conducted in 
New York City with 56 men and 44 women who were HIV negative and had been in a 
relationship for at least six months with an HIV-positive partner of the 
opposite sex. Those who had disclosed the HIV status of their partner to family 
or friends experienced four main types of stigmatizing behaviours: distancing 
(avoidance of the participant or his/her partner for fear of infection), 
depreciation of the partner (being told their partner is not worthy of them), 
violation of privacy (people spreading the information that the partner is HIV 
positive), or accusations (being told that it was wrong to be in a relationship 
with HIV-positive people or to try to conceive with them). Participants 
described four main ways of managing actual or anticipated stigma: secrecy (not 
disclosing the HIV status of their partner to anyone), avoidance (breaking ties 
with people who held stigmatizing views), seeking support from their partner or 
the HIV-positive community (e.g., HIV-related organizations or their partner's 
family or friends), or education (informing family or friends about HIV 
treatment and prevention). Findings show that HIV-related "courtesy" stigma is 
frequently experienced by HIV-negative people in serodiscordant relationships 
but often can be managed. Offering support to individuals in serodiscordant 
relationships can improve the quality of life of HIV-positive people and their 
HIV-negative partners and potentially reduce HIV stigma.

DOI: 10.1080/09540121.2018.1441971
PMCID: PMC5989564
PMID: 29458264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


897. Connect Tissue Res. 2018 Dec;59(sup1):111-121. doi: 
10.1080/03008207.2018.1442444.

Acrylic acid grafted tamarind kernel polysaccharide-based hydrogel for bone 
tissue engineering in absence of any osteo-inducing factors.

Kumar S(1), Majhi RK(2)(3), Sanyasi S(1), Goswami C(2)(3), Goswami L(1).

Author information:
(1)a School of Biotechnology , KIIT University , Bhubaneswar , India.
(2)b School of Biological Sciences , National Institute of Science Education and 
Research , Bhubaneswar , Orissa , India.
(3)c Homi Bhabha National Institute, Training School Complex , Mumbai , India.

PURPOSE: With increased life expectancy, disorders in lifestyle and other 
clinical conditions, and the changes in the connective tissues such as in bone, 
impose diverse biomedical problems. Cells belong to osteogenic lineages are 
extremely specific for their surface requirements. Therefore, suitable surfaces 
are the critical bottle neck for successful bone tissue engineering. This study 
involves assessment of polysaccharide-based hydrogel which effectively allows 
growth, differentiation and mineralisation of osteogenic cells even in the 
absence of osteogenic inducing factors.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Tamarind Kernel Polysaccharide was grafted with acrylic 
acid at different mole ratio. The critical parameter, surface morphology for bio 
application was assessed by SEM. MTT assay has been performed with hydrogels on 
Saos-2 cells. The biocompatibility and adhesion of different cell lines (F-11, 
Saos-2, Raw 264.7 and MSCs) on hydrogel surface was performed by Phalloidin and 
DAPI staining. Further the differentiation, mineralization and expression of 
different osteogenic markers, ALP assay, Alizarin Red staining and q-PCR was 
performed.
RESULTS: The hydrogels show highly porous and interconnected pores. MTT assay 
demonstrates the hydrogel have no cytotoxicity towards Saos-2 cells and are 
suitable for proliferation of different lineage of cell lines. ALP, Alizarin red 
staining and q-PCR assay shows that the hydrogel surface enhances the 
differentiation, mineralization and expression of different osteogenic genes in 
Saos-2 cells in the absence of any osteogenic inducing factors. Conclusion 
Synthesized hydrogel surface triggers signalling events towards osteogenesis 
even in the absence of added growth factors. We proposed that this material can 
be used for effective bone tissue engineering in vitro at low cost.

DOI: 10.1080/03008207.2018.1442444
PMID: 29458266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. J Med Econ. 2018 Jul;21(7):639-648. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2018.1443112. Epub
 2018 Mar 15.

Cost-effectiveness of hydrophilic-coated intermittent catheters compared with 
uncoated catheters in Canada: a public payer perspective.

Welk B(1)(2), Isaranuwatchai W(3)(4)(5), Krassioukov A(6), Husted Torp L(7), 
Elterman D(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Surgery and Epidemiology & Biostatistics , Western University 
, London , Ontario , Canada.
(2)b St Joseph's Health Care , London , Ontario , Canada.
(3)c Center for Excellence in Economic Analysis Research (CLEAR), The HUB, Li Ka 
Shing Knowledge Institute, St. Michael's Hospital , Toronto , Ontario , Canada.
(4)d Institute of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of 
Toronto , Toronto , Ontario , Canada.
(5)e Canadian Center for Applied Research in Cancer Control , Vancouver , 
British Columbia , Canada.
(6)f ICORD, Spinal Cord Program, GF Strong Rehabilitation Center, University of 
British Columbia , Vancouver , British Columbia , Canada.
(7)g Department of Economics , University of Copenhagen , Denmark.
(8)h Toronto Western Hospital/Krembil Research Institute , Toronto , Ontario.
(9)i Department of Surgery , University of Toronto , Toronto , Ontario.

STUDY DESIGN: A Markov model was used to analyze cost-effectiveness over a 
lifetime horizon.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the cost-effectiveness of hydrophilic-coated 
intermittent catheters (HCICs) compared with uncoated catheters (UCs) among 
individuals with neurogenic bladder dysfunction (NB) due to spinal cord injury 
(SCI).
SETTING: A Canadian public payer perspective based on data from Ontario; 
including a scenario analysis from the societal perspective.
METHODS: A previously published Markov decision model was modified to compare 
the lifetime costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) for the two 
interventions. Three renal function and three urinary tract infection (UTI) 
health states as well as other catheter-related events were included. Scenario 
analyses, including utility gain from compact catheter and phthalate free 
catheter use, were performed. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses were conducted to evaluate the robustness of the model.
RESULTS: The model predicted that a 50-year-old patient with SCI would gain an 
additional 0.72 QALYs if HCICs were used instead of UCs at an incremental cost 
of $48,016, leading to an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 
$66,634/QALY. Moreover, using HCICs could reduce the lifetime number of UTI 
events by 11%. From the societal perspective, HCICs cost less than UCs, while 
providing superior outcomes in terms of QALYs, life years gained (LYG), and 
UTIs. The cost per QALY further decreased when health-related quality-of-life 
(HRQoL) gains associated with compact HCICs or catheters not containing 
phthalates were included.
CONCLUSION: In general, ICERs in the range of CAD$50-100,000 could be considered 
cost-effective. The ICERs for the base case and sensitivity analyses suggest 
that HCICs could be cost-effective. From the societal perspective, HCICs were 
associated with potential cost savings in our model. The results suggest that 
reimbursement of HCICs should be considered in these settings.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2018.1443112
PMID: 29458282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. J Med Econ. 2018 Jun;21(6):577-586. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2018.1443111. Epub
 2018 Mar 12.

Cost-effectiveness of ceritinib in previously untreated anaplastic lymphoma 
kinase-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer in the United States.

Zhou ZY(1), Mutebi A(2), Han S(3), Bensimon AG(3), Louise Ricculli M(1), Xie 
J(1), Dalal A(2), Culver K(2).

Author information:
(1)a Analysis Group, Inc. , New York , NY , USA.
(2)b Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation , East Hanover , NJ , USA.
(3)c Analysis Group, Inc. , Boston , MA , USA.

AIMS: To assess the cost-effectiveness of first-line ceritinib vs crizotinib and 
platinum doublet chemotherapy for anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) from a US third-party payer's 
perspective.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A partitioned survival model with three health states 
(stable disease, progressive disease, death) was developed over a 20-year time 
horizon. Ceritinib's efficacy inputs (progression-free and overall survival) 
were estimated from ASCEND-4; parametric survival models extrapolated data 
beyond the trial period. The relative efficacy of ceritinib vs chemotherapy was 
obtained from ASCEND-4, the relative efficacy of ceritinib vs crizotinib was 
estimated using a matching-adjusted indirect comparison based on ASCEND-4 and 
PROFILE 1014. Drug acquisition, treatment administration, adverse event 
management, and medical costs were obtained from publicly available databases 
and the literature, and inflated to 2016 US dollars. Treatment-specific 
stable-state utilities were derived from trials and progressive-state utility 
from the literature. Incremental costs per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
were estimated for ceritinib vs each comparator. Cost-effectiveness was assessed 
based on US willingness-to-pay thresholds. Deterministic and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses were performed to test model robustness.
RESULTS: In the base case, first-line ceritinib was associated with total direct 
costs of $299,777 and 3.28 QALYs (from 4.61 life years gained [LYG]) over 20 
years. First-line crizotinib and chemotherapy were associated with 2.73 and 2.41 
QALYs, 3.92 and 3.53 LYG, and $263,172 and $228,184 total direct costs, 
respectively. The incremental cost per QALY gained was $66,064 for ceritinib vs 
crizotinib and $81,645 for ceritinib vs chemotherapy. In the first 2 years 
following treatment initiation, ceritinib dominated crizotinib by conferring 
greater health benefits at reduced total costs. Results were robust to 
deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
LIMITATIONS: In the absence of head-to-head trials, an indirect comparison 
method was used.
CONCLUSIONS: Ceritinib is cost-effective compared to crizotinib and chemotherapy 
in the treatment of previously untreated ALK-positive metastatic NCSLC in the 
US.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2018.1443111
PMID: 29458286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. BMC Pediatr. 2018 Feb 19;18(1):69. doi: 10.1186/s12887-018-1049-3.

HIV-1 transmission and survival according to feeding options in infants born to 
HIV-infected women in Yaoundé, Cameroon.

Njom Nlend AE(1)(2), Motaze ACN(3), Sandie A(4), Fokam J(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Service, National Insurance Fund Welfare Hospital, Yaoundé, 
Cameroon. anne.njom@gmail.com.
(2)Higher Institute of Medical Technology, University of Douala, Yaoundé, 
Cameroon. anne.njom@gmail.com.
(3)Pediatric Service, National Insurance Fund Welfare Hospital, Yaoundé, 
Cameroon.
(4)Statistics and Demography, Panafrican University, Nairobi, Kenya.
(5)Virology Laboratory, Chantal BIYA International Reference Centre for Research 
on HIV/AIDS prevention and management, Yaoundé, Cameroon.
(6)Faculty of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, University of Yaoundé 1, 
Yaoundé, Cameroon.
(7)Chair of Virology, Faculty of Medicine and Surgery, University of Rome Tor 
Vergata, Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Evidence of 24-months survival in the frame of prevention of 
mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) cascade-care is scare from routine programs 
in sub-Saharan African (SSA) settings. Specifically, data on infant outcomes 
according to feeding options remain largely unknown by month-24, thus limiting 
its breath for public-health recommendations toward eliminating new pediatric 
HIV-1 infections and improving care. We sought to evaluate HIV-1 vertical 
transmission and infant survival rates according to feeding options.
METHODS: A retrospective cohort-study conducted in Yaounde from April 2008 
through December 2013 among 1086 infants born to HIV-infected women and 
followed-up throughout the PMTCT cascade-care until 24-months. Infants with 
documented feeding option during their first 3 months of life (408 on Exclusive 
Breastfeeding [EBF], 663 Exclusive Replacement feeding [ERF], 15 mixed feeding 
[MF]) and known HIV-status were enrolled. HIV-1 vertical transmission, survival 
and feeding options were analyzed using Kaplan Meier Survival Estimate, Cox 
model and Schoenfeld residuals tests, at 5% statistical significance.
RESULTS: Overall HIV-1 vertical transmission was 3.59% (39), and varied by 
feeding options: EBF (2.70%), ERF (3.77%), MF (20%), p = 0.002; without 
significance between EBF and ERF (p = 0.34). As expected, HIV-1 transmission 
also varied with PMTCT-interventions: 1.7% (10/566) from ART-group, 1.9% (8/411) 
from AZT-group, and 19.2% (21/109) from ARV-naïve group, p < 0.0001. Overall 
mortality was 2.58% (28), higher in HIV-infected (10.25%) vs. uninfected (2.29%) 
infants (p = 0.016); with a survival cumulative probability of 89.3% 
[79.9%-99.8%] vs. 96.4% [94.8%-97.9% respectively], p = 0.024. Mortality also 
varied by feeding option: ERF (2.41%), EBF (2.45%), MF (13.33%), p = 0.03; with 
a survival cumulative probability of 96% [94%-98%] in ERF, 96.4% [94.1%-98.8%] 
in EBF, and 86.67% [71.06%-100%] in MF, p = 0.04. Using Schoenfeld residuals 
test, only HIV status was a predictor of survival at 24 months (hazard ratio 
0.23 [0.072-0.72], p = 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Besides using ART for PMTCT-interventions, practice of MF also 
drives HIV-1 vertical transmission and mortality among HIV-infected children. 
Thus, throughout PMTCT option B+ cascade-care, continuous counseling on safer 
feeding options would to further eliminating new MTCT, optimizing response to 
care, and improving the life expectancy of these children in high-priority 
countries.

DOI: 10.1186/s12887-018-1049-3
PMCID: PMC5817808
PMID: 29458337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: 
Ethical clearance for the study was obtained from the National Ethics Committee 
for Research on Human Subjects in Cameroon (2013/02/027/L/CNER/SP) and the 
Institutional Review Board of EHC (2014/003/CE-CHE). All women participating 
with their infants in this feeding counseling project provided a written 
informed consent. Data were processed using unique identifiers for purpose of 
privacy and confidentiality. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: N/A COMPETING INTERESTS: 
The authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.901. Int J Equity Health. 2018 Feb 20;17(1):27. doi: 10.1186/s12939-018-0737-9.

Inequity in dialysis related practices and outcomes in Aotearoa/New Zealand: a 
Kaupapa Māori analysis.

Huria T(1), Palmer S(2), Beckert L(2), Williman J(3), Pitama S(4).

Author information:
(1)Māori and Indigenous Health Institute, University of Otago Christchurch, 2 
Riccarton Ave, Christchurch, 8140, New Zealand. tania.huria@otago.ac.nz.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of Otago Christchurch, Christchurch, New 
Zealand.
(3)Department of Population Health, University of Otago Christchurch, 
Christchurch, New Zealand.
(4)Māori and Indigenous Health Institute, University of Otago Christchurch, 2 
Riccarton Ave, Christchurch, 8140, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: In Aotearoa/New Zealand, Māori, as the indigenous people, experience 
chronic kidney disease at three times the rate of non-Māori, non-Pacific New 
Zealanders. Māori commence dialysis treatment for end-stage kidney disease at 
three times the rate of New Zealand European adults. To examine for evidence of 
inequity in dialysis-related incidence, treatment practices, and survival 
according to indigeneity in Aotearoa/New Zealand, utilising a Kaupapa Māori 
approach.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective cohort study involving adults who 
commenced treatment for end-stage kidney disease in Aotearoa/New Zealand between 
2002 and 2011. We extracted data from the Australian and New Zealand Dialysis 
and Transplant Registry (ANZDATA) linked to the New Zealand National Health 
Index (NHI). Propensity score methods were used to assemble a cohort of 1039 
Māori patients matched 1:1 on clinical and socio-demographic characteristics 
with a cohort of 1026 non-Māori patients. We compared incidence of end-stage 
kidney disease and treatment practices. Differences in the risks of all-cause 
mortality during treatment between propensity-matched cohorts were estimated 
using Cox proportional hazards and generalised linear models.
RESULTS: Non-Māori patients were older, more frequently lived in urban areas 
(83% versus 67% [standardised difference 0.38]) and bore less socioeconomic 
deprivation (36% living in highest decile areas versus 14% [0.53]). Fewer 
non-Māori patients had diabetes (35% versus 69%, [- 0.72]) as a cause of kidney 
failure. Non-Māori patients were more frequently treated with peritoneal 
dialysis (34% versus 29% [0.11]), received a pre-emptive kidney transplant (4% 
vs 1% [0.19]), and were referred to specialist care < 3 months before treatment 
(25% vs 19% [0.15]) than Māori patients. Fewer non-Māori started dialysis with a 
non-tunnelled dialysis vascular catheter (43% versus 47% [- 0.08]). The 
indigenous-age standardised incidence rate ratio for non-Māori commencing renal 
replacement therapy in 2011 was 0.50 (95% CI, 0.40-0.61) compared with Māori. 
Propensity score matching generated cohorts with similar characteristics, 
although non-Māori less frequently started dialysis with a non-tunnelled venous 
catheter (30% versus 47% [- 0.35]) or lived remotely (3% versus 14% [- 0.50]). 
In matched cohorts, non-Māori experienced lower all-cause mortality at 5 yr. 
after commencement of treatment (risk ratio 0.78, 95% CI 0.72-0.84). New Zealand 
European patients experienced lower mortality than Māori patients in indigenous 
age-standardised analyses (age-standardised mortality rate ratio 0.58, 95% CI 
0.51-0.67).
CONCLUSIONS: Non-Māori patients are treated with temporary dialysis vascular 
access less often than Māori, and experience longer life expectancy with 
dialysis, even when socioeconomic, demographic, and geographical factors are 
equivalent. Based on these disparities, health services should monitor and 
address inequitable treatment practices and outcomes in end-stage kidney disease 
care.

DOI: 10.1186/s12939-018-0737-9
PMCID: PMC5819180
PMID: 29458366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The 
study was approved by the University of Otago Ethics B committee before data 
were obtained (HD14/27). All patients whom have information collected via 
ANZDATA have given their consent for data to be collected and utilised for 
research purposes. All research requests via ANZDATA are subject to peer-review, 
and if the data application meets ANZDATA criteria data requests are approved. 
CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors 
declare they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature 
remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and 
institutional affiliations.


902. Trials. 2018 Feb 20;19(1):117. doi: 10.1186/s13063-018-2487-9.

Catheter Ablation versus Thoracoscopic Surgical Ablation in Long Standing 
Persistent Atrial Fibrillation (CASA-AF): study protocol for a randomised 
controlled trial.

Khan HR(1)(2)(3), Kralj-Hans I(1), Haldar S(1)(3), Bahrami T(1), Clague J(1), De 
Souza A(1), Francis D(2), Hussain W(1), Jarman J(1), Jones DG(1)(2), Mediratta 
N(4), Mohiaddin R(1), Salukhe T(1), Jones S(5), Lord J(6), Murphy C(7), Kelly 
J(7), Markides V(1), Gupta D(2)(3)(4), Wong T(8)(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Royal Brompton and Harefield NHS Trust, London, UK.
(2)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(3)Institute of Cardiovascular Medicine and Science, London, UK.
(4)Liverpool Heart and Chest Hospital NHS Trust, Liverpool, UK.
(5)New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(6)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre (SHTAC), University of 
Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(7)King's Clinical Trials Unit, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, 
London, UK.
(8)Royal Brompton and Harefield NHS Trust, London, UK. tom.wong@imperial.ac.uk.
(9)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, UK. 
tom.wong@imperial.ac.uk.
(10)Institute of Cardiovascular Medicine and Science, London, UK. 
tom.wong@imperial.ac.uk.
(11)Royal Brompton Hospital, Sydney Street, London, UK. tom.wong@imperial.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Atrial fibrillation is the commonest arrhythmia which raises the 
risk of heart failure, thromboembolic stroke, morbidity and death. 
Pharmacological treatments of this condition are focused on heart rate control, 
rhythm control and reduction in risk of stroke. Selective ablation of cardiac 
tissues resulting in isolation of areas causing atrial fibrillation is another 
treatment strategy which can be delivered by two minimally invasive 
interventions: percutaneous catheter ablation and thoracoscopic surgical 
ablation. The main purpose of this trial is to compare the effectiveness and 
safety of these two interventions.
METHODS/DESIGN: Catheter Ablation versus Thoracoscopic Surgical Ablation in Long 
Standing Persistent Atrial Fibrillation (CASA-AF) is a prospective, 
multi-centre, randomised controlled trial within three NHS tertiary 
cardiovascular centres specialising in treatment of atrial fibrillation. 
Eligible adults (n = 120) with symptomatic, long-standing, persistent atrial 
fibrillation will be randomly allocated to either catheter ablation or 
thoracoscopic ablation in a 1:1 ratio. Pre-determined lesion sets will be 
delivered in each treatment arm with confirmation of appropriate conduction 
block. All patients will have an implantable loop recorder (ILR) inserted 
subcutaneously immediately following ablation to enable continuous heart rhythm 
monitoring for at least 12 months. The devices will be programmed to detect 
episodes of atrial fibrillation and atrial tachycardia ≥ 30 s in duration. The 
patients will be followed for 12 months, completing appropriate clinical 
assessments and questionnaires every 3 months. The ILR data will be wirelessly 
transmitted daily and evaluated every month for the duration of the follow-up. 
The primary endpoint in the study is freedom from atrial fibrillation and atrial 
tachycardia at the end of the follow-up period.
DISCUSSION: The CASA-AF Trial is a National Institute for Health Research-funded 
study that will provide first-class evidence on the comparative efficacy, safety 
and cost-effectiveness of thoracoscopic surgical ablation and conventional 
percutaneous catheter ablation for long-standing persistent atrial fibrillation. 
In addition, the results of the trial will provide information on the effects on 
patients' quality of life.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN Registry, ISRCTN18250790 . Registered on 24 April 
2015.

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-018-2487-9
PMCID: PMC5819216
PMID: 29458408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The 
study received ethical approval from the Bristol Research Ethics Committee 
Centre (NRES Committee South Central - Oxford A) on 5 March 2015 (REC reference 
[15]/SC/0023). All study participants are asked to sign a written informed 
consent form before taking part in the study. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not 
applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: HRK’s salary was funded by the CASA-AF Trial. 
HRK has a non-financial competing interest for using data for a higher 
post-graduate degree. VM is a consultant for Biosense Webster. The other authors 
declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature 
remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and 
institutional affiliations.


903. J Biomech. 2018 Apr 11;71:59-66. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiomech.2018.01.027. Epub
2018  Feb 3.

The influence of mechanical vibration on local and central balance control.

Ehsani H(1), Mohler J(2), Marlinski V(3), Rashedi E(4), Toosizadeh N(2).

Author information:
(1)Arizona Center on Aging, Department of Medicine, University of Arizona, 
Tucson, AZ, USA; Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Arizona, 
Tucson, AZ, USA. Electronic address: hehsani@email.arizona.edu.
(2)Arizona Center on Aging, Department of Medicine, University of Arizona, 
Tucson, AZ, USA; Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Arizona, 
Tucson, AZ, USA; Division of Geriatrics, General Internal Medicine and 
Palliative Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, 
