health authorities. The aim of this study was to estimate life expectancy and 
the average lifetime with and without chronic disease in men living in the West 
Bank who had never smoked, were ex-smokers, or were smokers.
METHODS: We used a life table for the male population in the West Bank and 
Danish relative risk estimates for death for smokers and ex-smokers versus never 
smokers and data from the 2010 Palestinian Family Survey. We estimated expected 
life time with and without chronic disease, and the contributions from the 
mortality and morbidity effects to smoking-related differences in average 
lifetime with and without chronic disease were assessed by decomposition.
FINDINGS: The life expectancy of a Palestinian man aged 15 years who would never 
start smoking was 59·5 years, of which 41·1 years (95% CI 40·3-41·9) were 
expected to be without chronic disease. Ex-smokers could expect 57·9 years of 
remaining life time, 37·7 years (35·9-39·4) of which would be without chronic 
disease. For life-long heavy smokers, the expected lifetime was 52·6 years, of 
which 38·5 years (37·3-39·7) would be without chronic disease. Of the total loss 
of 6·9 years of life expectancy in heavy smokers, the mortality effect accounted 
for 2·5 years without disease and 4·4 years with disease, whereas the morbidity 
effect was negligible. The morbidity component of the decomposition accounted 
for 1·7 years with disease for moderate smokers and 2·9 years without disease 
for ex-smokers.
INTERPRETATION: The high prevalence of smoking causes a considerable loss of 
life-years and life time without chronic disease. We recommend that the 
Palestinian health authorities enforce an anti-smoking law.
FUNDING: None.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(18)30383-0
PMID: 29553414241. Sutureless Aortic Valve Replacement for Treatment of Severe Aortic Stenosis:
A  Single Technology Assessment of Perceval Sutureless Aortic Valve [Internet].

Desser AS, Arentz-Hansen H, Fagerlund BF, Harboe I, Lauvrak V.

Oslo, Norway: Knowledge Centre for the Health Services at The Norwegian 
Institute of Public Health (NIPH); 2017 Aug 25. Report from the Norwegian 
Institute of Public Health No. 2017-01.
NIPH Systematic Reviews.

BACKGROUND: Aortic stenosis is the most common valvular heart disease in Western 
countries. A Norwegian study estimates that the prevalence of aortic stenosis is 
0.2% in adults aged 50 to 59, 1.3% in adults aged 60 to 69, and up to 9.8% in 
patients 80 to 89. Aortic stenosis is generally caused by calcification of the 
aortic valve that ultimately can lead to heart failure. The three most important 
symptoms are chest pains, shortness of breath on exertion, and fainting. The 
disease may be asymptomatic for long periods of time, but once symptoms appear 
(severe aortic stenosis), an untreated individual has an average life expectancy 
of 2 to 3 years. The only effective treatment is aortic valve replacement (AVR) 
surgery.
OBJECTIVE: The National System for Managed Introduction of New Health 
Technologies within the Specialist Health Care Service in Norway commissioned us 
to perform single technology assessment(s) on the use of sutureless aortic valve 
replacement in treatment of aortic stenosis (Nye metoder ID2015 042). One 
company, Livanova, Sorin group, provided a submission file. Based on the 
commission and the submission file, our assessment has been restricted to 
effectiveness, safety and cost effectiveness of Perceval sutureless aortic valve 
replacement (Perceval) compared to traditional aortic valve replacement 
(traditional AVR) for treating adult operable patients with severe aortic 
stenosis. We have evaluated the submitted documentation in relation to the best 
available published evidence.
METHODS: CLINICAL EFFECTIVENESS AND SAFETY: The clinical documentation submitted 
by the firm consisted of 25 studies included after a systematic search. We 
excluded six studies with transcathether aortic valve implantion (TAVI) as 
comparator, but included comparisons to other types of sutureless valves. We 
identified one additional study based on an independent systematic search, 
leaving 20 studies to be assessed. We aimed to identify the best available 
evidence for the outcomes long- and short-term mortality, morbidity, quality of 
life, resource use and adverse events. We evaluated internal validity of the 
studies based on the submitted information and a simplified risk of bias 
analysis. Data from all assessed studies, are presented in an appendix to this 
report, but only studies considered to represent best available evidence, were 
assessed in depth based on full text inspection. RevMan 5 was used to pool data 
from comparative studies. We assessed the quality (confidence in estimates) of 
the best available evidence based on the guidelines provided by The Grading of 
Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE). The firm 
submitted an economic model consisting of three elements: (1) a hierarchical, 
random-effects Bayesian meta-analysis of clinical data from studies used to 
estimate pooled clinical parameters; (2) a probabilistic, patient-level 
simulation model that used clinical outcomes from the meta-analysis to determine 
the life-time effectiveness (30-day mortality, life-years gained, QALYs) and 
costs of Perceval compared to traditional valves based on 10,000 simulated 
patients; and (3) a five-year budget impact model to translate the 
cost-effectiveness results into a budget impact statement. The model examined 
six treatment groups consisting of four isolated AVR groups (full-sternotomy 
with traditional vs. Perceval valve; minimally invasive surgery with traditional 
vs. Perceval valve) and two groups undergoing concomitant surgical procedures 
via full-sternotomy (traditional vs. Perceval valve). The model relied heavily 
on a published study (not included in the clinical effect documentation) 
relating outcomes of aortic valve replacement surgery to cross-clamp time (CCT). 
To capture the independent effects of surgical procedure and valve type on CCT, 
the submission included data from seven published studies, only one of which was 
part of the submitted clinical evidence on effect. The data were pooled using 
Bayesian meta-analyses in order to estimate relative effects of valve type and 
surgical procedure on cross-clamp time (CCT), and the baseline mean values and 
associated distributions for adverse events for the model reference group (CCT < 
60 min). Cost data were retrieved, when possible, from Norwegian sources. A 
healthcare-payer perspective was used for the analysis.
RESULTS: CLINICAL EFFECTIVENESS AND SAFETY: Among the 20 assessed studies there 
were no randomized controlled trials (RCTs). Except for two studies from Canada, 
the assessed studies were based on European case series. The only study for 
which we identified an entry in a trial registry was the single-arm CAVALIER 
study (NCT01368666). As some studies are overlapping, we cannot give an estimate 
on the total number of patients in the assessed studies. Ten studies were 
non-comparative and ten were comparative. Eight studies compared Perceval with 
traditional AVR and two studies compared Perceval with other types of sutureless 
valves. Based on a simplified risk of bias assessment we considered four 
propensity score matched cohort studies comparing Perceval with traditional AVR 
(1033 patients in total) and the single arm CAVALIER study (658 patients 
receiving Perceval) to represent the best available evidence for the predefined 
indication and outcomes. We considered the remaining studies to represent very 
low quality evidence and did not assess them further. Based on pooled data from 
the four propensity score matched studies, it is uncertain whether Perceval 
reduces, increases or has a similar 30-day mortality compared with traditional 
AVR. There were 19 deaths in the Perceval group (N=484) and 22 in the 
traditional AVR group (N= 549). A random effects meta-analysis provided a risk 
ratio of 1.09; 95% CI 0.58 to 2.06 (GRADE quality of evidence: low). There may 
be small or no differences in hemodynamic measures at 30 days between Perceval 
and traditional AVR (mean gradient (mm Hg) -0.73; 95% CI -1.75, 0.30; GRADE 
quality of evidence: low). We also found that Perceval may provide lower 
cross-clamp time and cardiopulmonary bypass time (mean difference, respectively 
= -22.53; 95% CI -34.28 to -10.78 and -26.83; 95% CI -32.10 to -21.55; GRADE 
quality of evidence: low). Postoperative differences in functional status (NYHA 
class) was not reported in any of the comparative studies. None of the studies 
reported quality of life data. No conclusions could be made with regard to the 
influence of Perceval on intensive care unit or hospital length of stay due to 
very low quality of evidence. No published comparative studies were available to 
allow for subgroup analyses based on surgical procedure (minimally invasive 
versus full sternotomy). The same type of adverse events, if reported, were 
present in both groups of the comparative studies. No adverse events occurred at 
a rate higher than 10% in the Perceval arm of the propensity matched comparative 
studies. The need for pacemaker implantation was higher in the Perceval group 
compared to traditional AVR (risk ratio = 1.62; 95% CI 0.98 to 2.67; GRADE 
quality of evidence: low). No conclusions could be made regarding Perceval 
versus other sutureless valves because there were no propensity score matched 
studies. No conclusions could be made with regard to differences in long-term 
outcomes. Short-term (30-day) adverse events, including death (3.7%), stroke 
(2.2%), major bleeding (4.5%), and the need for permanent pacemaker implantation 
(11.8%) were common in the single-arm CAVALIER study (N=614). Freedom from valve 
or procedure related death among patients available to follow up decreased from 
97.2% (95% CI 95.9 to 98.5) after one year (N=554) to 89.5% (95% CI 85.1 to 
93.8) at four years (N=83). HEALTH ECONOMIC RESULTS: The results of the 
submitted cost-effectiveness simulations are mainly based on data not included 
in the submitter’s effect evidence. Based on the model, Perceval can be 
cost-effective (less costly and slightly more effective) relative to traditional 
sutured valves for the three types of surgical procedures considered: isolated 
full sternotomy (FS), isolated minimally invasive surgery (MiS), and concomitant 
surgery with full sternotomy (CONC). For isolated FS procedures the estimated 
effect gains for Perceval relative to traditional valves are a 2.1% reduction in 
mortality, a 0.13 increase in life-years gained, and a 0.11 increase in QALYs 
gained. The estimated gains associated with Perceval are slightly lower for 
isolated MiS and slightly higher for CONC procedures. The largest estimated 
gains come with a switch from FS with a traditional valve to MiS with Perceval, 
with a 2.9% reduction in 30-day mortality, a 0.19 increase in life-years gained 
and a 0.15 increase in QALYs gained. This supports the idea that there are 
independent gains from a MiS rather than FS procedure and from using Perceval 
rather than traditional sutured valves. Estimated costs are lower using Perceval 
valves compared to sutured valves across all surgical procedures. Estimated 
savings for Perceval compared to trational valves are approximately NOK 133,300 
with a full sternotomy and NOK 114,350 for minimally invasive surgery. The 
estimated savings for concomitant procedures using Perceval is NOK 206,900. As 
with effects, the largest estimated cost savings occur with a switch from FS 
with a traditional valve to MiS with Perceval, a saving of approximately NOK 
181,600. The five-year budget impact compares total costs for annual aortic 
replacement surgery for 698 patients in two scenarios: (1) no use of sutureless 
valves and (2) a gradual, linear market penetration by Perceval of 15% over five 
years. The budget impact analysis also shows cost savings with Perceval of 
1.33%, 2.01%, 2.72%, 3.43% and 4.15% in years 1 to 5, respectively. The total 
five-year saving with the specified gradual introduction of Perceval is 
approximately NOK 44,660,000. The analysis is based on the assumption that 50% 
AVR procedures are minimally invasive. Sensitivity analysis of both the 
cost-effectiveness results and the budget impact analysis showed that the base 
case results were robust for analyses reflecting uncertainty in the simulated 
outcomes in the model and for a variation in the assumed base case Perceval 
price (NOK 32,500) within a price range from NOK 25,000 to 40,000.
DISCUSSION: EFFECTIVENESS AND SAFETY: Our major objection to the submitted 
material is the low quality level of currently available evidence. There is one 
ongoing highly relevant RCT (PERSIST‐AVR trial, NCT02673697) with planned 
enrollment of 1234 patients. Primary data from this trial is anticipated to be 
available in 2019. We considered the most appropriate argument for including 
non-randomized studies, at this time, is that it is early in the life cycle of 
the technology, and that there may be a need for a temporary decision on whether 
to offer this technology based on best available evidence and/or evaluate the 
need for additional trials. Thus, we have focused on identifying the best 
available evidence. More definitive conclusions can be made when results of the 
ongoing RCT are available. There are several new methods available for treatment 
of operable patients with severe aortic stenosis, including other types of 
sutureless procedures. In addition, both sutureless and transcathether based 
procedures (TAVI) have been suggested for patients with severe aortic stenosis 
and an intermediate to high operative risk as well as patients with anatomical 
characteristics not suited for traditional AVR. This may provide new options for 
patients with unmet needs, but it also increases the need for additional 
clinical trials, i.e. trials comparing sutureless AVR to TAVI. HEALTH ECONOMICS: 
The economic analysis relies on a model that relates clinical outcomes for 
aortic valve replacement surgery to cross-clamp time (a surrogate endpoint) and 
surgical technique. The model itself is well-constructed, relevant for the 
Norwegian context, and exhibits, as far as we can tell, internal validity. The 
data used in the model, however, were mostly from studies that were not part of 
the clinical evidence submitted by the firm and were therefore not graded for 
quality. The one study that was included in the submitted evidence was 
considered to be of very low quality. Two competing effects could influence 
model-estimated savings when using Perceval instead of traditional valves. 
Savings across all procedure types may be lower than suggested in the 
cost-effectiveness analysis if the reduction in time needed for surgery cannot 
be fully translated into additional operations. On the other hand, savings 
estimated in the five-year budget impact analysis are based on the assumption 
that approximately half of valve replacement procedures are minimally invasive 
surgeries. Because aortic valve replacement in Norway is usually performed as a 
full-sternotomy, and savings using Perceval are higher compared to traditional 
valves for FS than MiS, the actual savings may tend to be higher than reported.
CONCLUSION: EFFECTIVENESS AND SAFETY: The quality of the available evidence 
comparing Perceval sutureless AVR to traditional AVR is low to very low. More 
robust conclusions will be available upon publication of primary data from an 
ongoing RCT expected in 2019. Based on best available evidence, it is uncertain 
whether Perceval AVR reduces, increases or has a similar 30-day mortality 
compared with traditional AVR. Perceval AVR may reduce perioperative cardiac 
bypass time and cross-clamp time, and may provide little or no difference in 
hemodynamic function at 30 days compared to traditional AVR. However, no firm 
conclusions can be made with regard to superiority of either method. HEALTH 
ECONOMICS: Based on the cost-effectiveness and budget impact analyses performed 
by the firm Perceval can be cost-saving compared to traditional sutured valves 
for isolated full sternotomy or minimally invasive valve replacement surgery, 
and for concomitant surgeries with full sternotomy. Model estimates of clinical 
effect indicate that there may be small gains connected with Perceval. Estimates 
from the five-year budget impact analysis show cost savings with expanded use of 
Perceval. Because the data used in the model were not based on the assessed 
comparative studies, there remains uncertainty about the likelihood and validity 
of the results. More robust conclusions will be possible on publication of the 
ongoing RCT.

Copyright © 2017 by The Norwegian Institute of Public Health (NIPH).

PMID: 29553663


242. Regen Med. 2018 Mar 19. doi: 10.2217/rme-2017-0104. Online ahead of print.

The regenerative therapies of the ankle degeneration: a focus on multipotential 
mesenchymal stromal cells.

El-Jawhari JJ(1)(2), Brockett CL(3), Ktistakis I(1)(4), Jones E(1), Giannoudis 
PV(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Leeds Institute of Rheumatic & Musculoskeletal Medicine, University of Leeds, 
Leeds, UK.
(2)Clinical pathology department, Faculty of Medicine, Mansoura University, 
Mansoura, Egypt.
(3)Institute of Medical & Biological Engineering, University of Leeds, Leeds, 
UK.
(4)Academic Unit of Trauma and Orthopaedic Surgery, Leeds General Infirmary, 
Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, Leeds, UK.

The ankle degeneration ranging from focal osteochondral lesions to 
osteoarthritis can cause a total joint function loss. With rising life 
expectancy and activity of the patients, various regenerative therapies were 
introduced aiming to preserve the joint function via the induction of cartilage 
and bone repair. Here, biological events and mechanical changes of the ankle 
degeneration were discussed. The regenerative therapies were reviewed versus the 
standard surgical treatment. We especially focused on the use of mesenchymal 
(multipotential) stromal cells (MSCs) highlighting their dual functions of 
regeneration and cell modulation with an emphasis on the emerging MSC-based 
clinical studies. Being at an early step, more basic and clinical research is 
needed to optimize the applications of all ankle regenerative therapies 
including MSC-based methods.

DOI: 10.2217/rme-2017-0104
PMID: 29553890


243. Curr Opin HIV AIDS. 2018 Jul;13(4):320-325. doi:
10.1097/COH.0000000000000466.

Dolutegravir-rilpivirine coformulation.

Sun HY(1), Chang SY(2)(3), Hung CC(1)(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences and Medical Biotechnology.
(4)Department of Parasitology, National Taiwan University College of Medicine, 
Taipei.
(5)Department of Medical Research, China Medical University Hospital.
(6)China Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: With prolonged life expectancy in HIV-positive patients on 
combination antiretroviral therapy, the quest for reducing lifelong drug 
exposure and minimizing or avoiding the toxicities of combination antiretroviral 
therapy while maintaining viral suppression has emerged when coformulations of 
antiretroviral agents with improved convenience, and better tolerability and 
efficacy became available. This review aims to update the current experience 
with the novel two-drug combination of dolutegravir (DTG) and rilpivirine (RPV) 
and elucidate the possible applications and limitations of coformulated DTG-RPV 
in the future.
RECENT FINDINGS: Five observational studies and two randomized, noninferiority 
trials (SWORD-1 and SWORD-2) evaluated the use of DTG and RPV in 
treatment-experienced patients. Despite variable inclusion criteria, 95-100% of 
the included patients maintained plasma HIV RNA load less than 50 copies/ml at 
the end of 24-48 weeks of observation. Overall, this regimen was well tolerated 
and only 0.8-7.9% of the patients discontinued the regimen due to adverse 
events.
SUMMARY: DTG and RPV is a novel two-drug antiretroviral combination regimen that 
can be effectively and safely used in patients with viral suppression for 6 
months or longer. However, its use in patients with a previous history of 
virological failure and/or antiretroviral resistance warrants further 
investigation.

DOI: 10.1097/COH.0000000000000466
PMID: 29553948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Transplantation. 2018 May;102(5):e219-e228. doi:
10.1097/TP.0000000000002148.

Comparing Simultaneous Liver-Kidney Transplant Strategies: A Modified 
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.

Cheng XS(1), Kim WR(2), Tan JC(1), Chertow GM(1), Goldhaber-Fiebert J(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Stanford University Medical 
Center, Palo Alto, CA.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Stanford 
University Medical Center, Palo Alto, CA.
(3)Center of Primary Care and Outcomes Research, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, CA.

BACKGROUND: The proportion of patients with kidney failure at time of liver 
transplantation is at a historic high in the United States. The optimal timing 
of kidney transplantation with respect to the liver transplant is unknown.
METHODS: We used a modified cost-effectiveness analysis to compare 4 strategies: 
the old system ("pre-OPTN"), the new Organ Procurement Transplant Network (OPTN) 
system since August 10, 2017 ("OPTN"), and 2 strategies which restrict 
simultaneous liver-kidney transplants ("safety net" and "stringent"). We 
measured "cost" by deployment of deceased donor kidneys (DDKs) to liver 
transplant recipients and effectiveness by life years (LYs) and quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) in liver transplant recipients. We validated our model 
against Scientific Registry for Transplant Recipients data.
RESULTS: The OPTN, safety net and stringent strategies were on the efficiency 
frontier. By rank order, OPTN > safety net > stringent strategy in terms of LY, 
QALY, and DDK deployment. The pre-OPTN system was dominated, or outperformed, by 
all alternative strategies. The incremental LY per DDK between the strategies 
ranged from 1.30 to 1.85. The incremental QALY per DDK ranged from 1.11 to 2.03.
CONCLUSIONS: These estimates quantify the "organ"-effectiveness of various 
kidney allocation strategies for liver transplant candidates. The OPTN system 
will likely deliver better liver transplant outcomes at the expense of more 
frequent deployment of DDKs to liver transplant recipients.

DOI: 10.1097/TP.0000000000002148
PMCID: PMC7946326
PMID: 29554056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


245. Sci Total Environ. 2018 Jul 15;630:1028-1035. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2018.02.274. Epub 2018 Mar 7.

Community structure and functioning below the streambed across contrasting 
geologies.

Dunscombe M(1), Robertson A(2), Peralta-Maraver I(3), Shaw P(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Roehampton University, Holybourne Avenue, London 
SW15 4JD, UK; APEM Ltd, A17 Embankment Business Park, Heaton Mersey, Stockport, 
Cheshire SK4 3GN, UK.
(2)Department of Life Sciences, Roehampton University, Holybourne Avenue, London 
SW15 4JD, UK. Electronic address: a.robertson@roehampton.ac.uk.
(3)Department of Life Sciences, Roehampton University, Holybourne Avenue, London 
SW15 4JD, UK.

There is little understanding of the variability in the structure and function 
of metazoan hyporheic communities across streams draining geologies that weather 
to produce different pore sizes and, by extension, different hydrological 
conditions. In this study we selected two catchments in each of three geologies 
that had differing values of hydraulic conductivity and porosity, and sampled 
four riffles in each catchment at high and low water levels and at two depths. 
We found clear differences in the physical template of streams draining 
different geologies and in the composition and abundance of communities 
inhabiting the hyporheic zones of streams draining chalk/sandstone and limestone 
geologies. However, we did not detect any significant differences in body size, 
biomass or functional measures (diversity, richness, redundancy) between the 
geologies. Our findings imply that ecosystem functioning in streams draining 
geologies that produce fine grain sediments may be similar to those draining 
geologies that produce coarse grained sediments irrespective of differences in 
the physical template and community structure.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2018.02.274
PMID: 29554724


246. Sleep Health. 2018 Apr;4(2):182-187. doi: 10.1016/j.sleh.2017.11.007. Epub
2018  Jan 17.

Burden of disease due to sleep duration and sleep problems in the elderly.

Lubetkin EI(1), Jia H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Social Medicine, CUNY School of Medicine, 
160 Convent Avenue, H313J, New York, NY, USA. Electronic address: 
lubetkin@med.cuny.edu.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Mailman School of Public Health and School of 
Nursing, Columbia University, 617 West 168th Street, New York, NY, 10032, USA.

OBJECTIVES: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention emphasizes 
conceptualizing sleep as a healthy behavior. Although a large literature exists 
documenting the morbidity or mortality of suboptimal sleep, fewer investigations 
have examined the burden of disease in a single number combining morbidity and 
mortality. This study examined the morbidity, as measured by health-related 
quality of life (HRQOL), mortality, and quality-adjusted life years (QALY) due 
to suboptimal (inadequate or excessive) sleep.
DESIGN AND PARTICIPANTS: We ascertained respondents' HRQOL scores and mortality 
status from the 2005 to 2008 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 
(NHANES) with mortality follow-up data through December 31, 2011 for respondents 
aged 65 and older (n=2380). We estimated mean QALY according to duration of 
sleep, minutes to fall asleep, number of sleeping problems, and daytime impact.
RESULTS: More than one third of participants reported a suboptimal sleep 
duration. Short sleep duration had a greater adverse impact on morbidity, with 
reductions in HRQOL, while long sleep duration had a greater adverse impact on 
mortality. Compared to participants who reported between 7 and 9 hours of sleep 
per night, mean QALYs were significantly lower among participants who slept 10 
or more hours a night (7.8 QALY; decrease of 9.8 QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: This study confirmed the association between suboptimal sleep and 
greater burden of disease among the elderly US population. Our findings provide 
support for treating sleep as a healthy (health risk) behavior, thereby having 
implications for primary care providers and public health surveillance.

Copyright © 2017 National Sleep Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sleh.2017.11.007
PMID: 29555132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Vaccine. 2018 Apr 19;36(17):2371-2377. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2018.02.021.
Epub  2018 Mar 17.

Effectiveness of herpes zoster vaccination in an older United Kingdom 
population.

Walker JL(1), Andrews NJ(2), Amirthalingam G(3), Forbes H(2), Langan SM(2), 
Thomas SL(2).

Author information:
(1)Statistics, Modelling and Economics Department, Public Health England, 61 
Colindale Avenue, London NW9 5EQ, UK; Faculty of Epidemiology and Population 
Health, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, London, 
UK. Electronic address: jemma.walker@lshtm.ac.uk.
(2)Faculty of Epidemiology and Population Health, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, London, UK.
(3)Immunisation, Hepatitis and Blood Safety Department, Public Health England, 
61 Colindale Avenue, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Vaccination against herpes zoster was introduced in the United 
Kingdom in 2013 for individuals aged 70 years, with a phased catch-up campaign 
for 71-79 year olds. Vaccine introduction has resulted in a marked fall in 
incident herpes zoster and in post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN), but formal 
evaluation of vaccine effectiveness is needed.
METHODS: In a population-based cohort study of older individuals born between 
1933 and 1946, we used linked UK anonymised primary care health records for the 
first three years of the vaccination programme (01/09/2013-31/08/2016) and 
multivariable Poisson regression to obtain incidence rates and vaccine 
effectiveness (VE) against zoster and PHN.
RESULTS: Among 516,547 individuals, 21% were vaccinated. Incidence of zoster was 
3.15/1000 person-years in vaccinees and 8.80/1000 person-years in unvaccinated 
individuals. After adjustment, VE was 64% (95%CI = 60-68%) against incident 
zoster and 81% (95%CI = 61-91%) against PHN, with very similar VE estimates in 
the routine and catch-up cohorts. VE against zoster was lower in those with a 
previous history of zoster: 47% (95%CI = 31-58%) versus 64% (95%CI = 60-68%) in 
those without previous zoster. There was evidence of waning VE over time, from 
69% (95%CI = 65-74%) in the first year after vaccination to 45% (95%CI = 29-57%) 
by the third year.
CONCLUSION: This first formal assessment of VE in the UK zoster vaccination 
programme demonstrates good effectiveness of zoster vaccine, and very good 
protection against PHN. The findings provide evidence that VE is similar across 
the age groups targeted for vaccination in the UK, and on duration of protection 
of the vaccine in public health use. The study provides key information for 
decision-makers about the future direction of UK zoster vaccination programme, 
indicating that the live zoster vaccine may be more cost-effective than 
estimated previously. It also supports efforts to communicate the benefits of 
zoster vaccination to address the declining coverage observed across the UK.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2018.02.021
PMCID: PMC5899761
PMID: 29555217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Postgrad Med J. 2018 Jun;94(1112):348-353. doi: 
10.1136/postgradmedj-2017-135493. Epub 2018 Mar 19.

Blood pressure management in older people: balancing the risks.

Naschitz JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Bait Balev Nesher and The Ruth and Bruce Rappaport Faculty of Medicine, 
Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel.

Guidelines of arterial hypertension treatment based on individualised expected 
outcomes are not available for frail older persons. In this paper, we review the 
evidence, concerning management of arterial blood pressure (BP) in frail older 
patients. We focused on the best affordable methods for BP measurement; the 
age-related optimum BP; specific BP goals in agreement with the patients' 
general heath, frailty status, orthostatic and postprandial hypotension; 
balancing the benefits against risks of antihypertensive treatment. Lenient BP 
goals are generally recommended for older persons with moderate or severe 
frailty, multimorbidity and limited life expectancy. To this aim, there may be a 
need for deintensification of antihypertensive treatment.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/postgradmedj-2017-135493
PMID: 29555655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


249. Oncol Lett. 2018 Mar;15(3):3508-3517. doi: 10.3892/ol.2018.7804. Epub 2018
Jan  16.

Short-term outcomes of reconstruction subsequent to intercalary resection of 
femoral diaphyseal metastatic tumor with pathological fracture: Comparison 
between segmental allograft and intercalary prosthesis.

Lun DX(1)(2)(3), Hu YC(3), Yang XG(3), Wang F(3), Xu ZW(2).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 300070, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Spine Surgery, Weifang People's Hospital, Weifang, Shandong 
261041, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Bone Oncology, Tianjin Hospital, Tianjin 300211, P.R. China.

Reconstruction of bone defects following femoral diaphyseal tumor resection is 
challenging. Segmental allograft (SA) and intercalary prosthesis (IP) are the 
most common reconstruction methods for femoral diaphyseal metastatic tumors with 
pathological fracture. However, whether the complications and functional 
outcomes differ between SA and IP remains unclear. To compare the clinical 
outcomes and complications for patients treated with SA reconstruction or IP 
replacement for femoral shaft tumors, 34 patients who had undergone intercalary 
resection for metastatic tumor with pathological fracture in the femoral 
diaphysis were evaluated. Of these, 18 had received SA and 16 IP. There were 11 
males, and 24 females, with a mean age of 64.5±11.3 years. The most common sites 
of primary metastases were lung (26.5%), breast (17.6%) and liver (14.7%). The 
visual analog scale (VAS), implant-related complications and the Musculoskeletal 
Tumor Society (MSTS) scores for each patient were collected. The follow-up 
period for patients ranged from 2 to 27 months. At the most recent follow-up, 28 
patients had succumbed to mortality, with a mean survival time of 6.9±3.7 months 
for the IP group and 7.4±3.0 months for the SA group. Patients with IP had a 
significantly shorter time to full weight bearing and hospitalization time than 
those who received SA (P=0.003 and P=0.002, respectively). The rates of overall 
complications and implant-related complications were significantly lower for IP 
as compared with SA (18.8 vs. 66.7%, P=0.007; 12.5 vs. 55.6%, P=0.013). The 
reoperation rate of the SA group was higher than that of the IP group (38.9 vs. 
12.5%), however the difference between the two groups was statistically 
insignificant (P=0.125). MSTS scores were significantly higher for the IP group 
as compared with the SA group at one month after surgery (IP, 26.7±1.6 vs. SA, 
20.3±1.5; P<0.05), without a significant difference at the final follow-up. 
There were no statistically significant differences in age, sex, length of 
resection, follow-up time, operative time or blood loss between the two groups. 
In summary, IP reconstruction may provide improved early functional outcomes and 
fewer early complications, particularly for patients with a shorter life 
expectancy due to femoral metastatic tumors with pathological fracture.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2018.7804
PMCID: PMC5844073
PMID: 29556273


250. Rom J Morphol Embryol. 2017;58(4):1279-1283.

Improved diagnosis and long-term recurrence rate reduction for 
non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer patients undergoing fluorescent 
hexylaminolevulinate photodynamic diagnosis.

Drăgoescu PO(1), Tudorache Ş, Drocaş AI, Mitroi G, Pănuş A, Drăgoescu NAM, 
Meşină C, Mititelu CD, Stănculescu AD, Mohamed G, Tomescu PI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Medicine and Pharmacy 
of Craiova, Romania; stefania.tudorache@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Bladder cancer (BC) currently accounts for 5% of all malignancies 
and the most common tumor of the urinary tract. Diagnosis of bladder cancer is 
based on urine cytology and white-light cystoscopy (WLC) performed for patients 
with suspected bladder mass and÷or hematuria. Recent studies suggest that using 
the fluorescence photodynamic diagnosis (PDD) significantly improves diagnostic 
sensitivity with a positive influence upon the recurrence rate of bladder 
cancer.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the diagnostic efficiency and long-term influence upon 
the tumor recurrence rate for patients with non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer 
(NMIBC) undergoing hexaminolevulinate PDD compared to standard WLC.
PATIENTS, MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between 2009 and 2011, 113 primary NMIBC 
patients were enrolled in our prospective study and randomized in two parallel 
groups: 57 patients in the study group (PDD) and 56 patients in the control 
group (WLC). All patients had primary Ta÷T1 NMIBC with good life expectancy and 
no significant bladder outlet obstruction [postvoid residual urine volume (PVR) 
<100 mL].
RESULTS: Fluorescence cystoscopy examination identified 26.3% more tumors than 
the conventional examination (p=0.034) in the PDD group. Tumor recurrence rate 
analysis proved a significant reduction by up to 20% after five years of 
follow-up by using PDD [hazard ratio (HR) 0.566, 95% confidence interval (CI) 
0.343-0.936; p=0.0267].
CONCLUSIONS: The use of PDD for patients with NMIBC results in a significant 26% 
diagnostic sensitivity improvement as well as superior patient prognosis and 
quality of life following conservative treatment by reducing the tumor 
recurrence rate with up to 20% after five years of follow-up.

PMID: 29556618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Pharmacoeconomics. 2018 May;36(5):625-636. doi: 10.1007/s40273-018-0643-4.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Lesinurad/Allopurinol Versus Febuxostat for the 
Management of Gout/Hyperuricemia in Italy.

Ruggeri M(1), Basile M(2), Drago C(3), Rolli FR(1), Cicchetti A(1).

Author information:
(1)Catholic University of Sacred Heart, Largo Francesco Vito, 1, 00168, Rome, 
Italy.
(2)Catholic University of Sacred Heart, Largo Francesco Vito, 1, 00168, Rome, 
Italy. michelebasile@icloud.com.
(3)"Niccolò Cusano" University, Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Until very recently the only therapeutic alternative for the 
management of patients affected by gout/hyperuricemia that did not respond to a 
first-line treatment based on allopurinol alone or who cannot tolerate 
allopurinol was febuxostat, a xanthine oxidase non-purine-selective inhibitor. 
Lately, however, a new therapeutic alternative has become available for the 
management of this pathology: lesinurad, a urate transporter inhibitor.
OBJECTIVE: To objective of this study was to evaluate the cost effectiveness of 
lesinurad/allopurinol in comparison with febuxostat as a second-line therapeutic 
strategy for the management of patients affected by gout and hyperuricemia that 
did not respond to a first-line therapy based on allopurinol alone.
METHODS: A Markov model was built based on the natural history of the pathology; 
patients entered the model according to their level of serum uric acid 
concentration and flowed across it according to their response to the therapy. 
The analysis was carried out considering the perspective of the Italian National 
Health Service on a lifetime horizon and 6-month cycles. Costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were discounted at a 3.5% yearly rate. The 
results of the model were expressed in terms of incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER). Both a one-way and a multi-way Monte-Carlo analysis were carried 
out in order to check the robustness of the results achieved.
RESULTS: The ICER derived from the comparison was equal to €77.53/QALY on the 
lifetime horizon, as there was a higher level of costs associated with the 
combination as compared with febuxostat (€10,658.27 vs. €10,645.87, for a 
differential of €12.40) and a higher level of QALYs achieved (7.77 vs. 7.61, for 
a differential of 0.16).
CONCLUSIONS: The lesinurad/allopurinol combination is recommended for the 
treatment of patients affected by gout/hyperuricemia in the Italian Health 
System as it appears to be cost effective and thus sustainable for the Italian 
healthcare sector.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-018-0643-4
PMID: 29557073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Health Promot Pract. 2019 Mar;20(2):223-230. doi: 10.1177/1524839918760558.
Epub  2018 Mar 20.

World Cafés Create Healthier Communities for Rural, Older Adults Living With 
Diabetes.

Yankeelov PA(1), Faul AC(1)(2), D'Ambrosio JG(1), Gordon BA(3), McGeeney TJ(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Louisville, Louisville, KY, USA.
(2)University of the Free State, Bloemfontein, South Africa.
(3)Kentuckiana Regional Planning & Development Agency, Louisville, KY, USA.

Our global population is aging at an accelerated pace. While the average life 
expectancy has seen dramatic increases, chronic disease and disability have also 
increased, with rural America tending to be older, sicker, and poorer. This 
article examines the implementation and outcomes associated with the community 
engagement method of the world café that was instrumental in developing a 
"culture of health" aimed to reduce diabetes-related inequalities for older 
adults in rural counties of Kentucky. Older residents and the organizations that 
serve them participated in world cafés, which resulted in collective action due 
to the wisdom and capacity that evolve from the core element of the method, 
conversational sharing via multiple small group interactions. Four world cafés 
were held to explore the desires of the communities related to healthy eating, 
exercise, smoking cessation, and diabetes care. The world cafés brought a 
diverse group of community residents and governmental and business leaders to 
discuss topics that matter to their community, leading to the development of a 
strategic plan and a scorecard and, ultimately, community empowerment.

DOI: 10.1177/1524839918760558
PMID: 29557175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. J Med Econ. 2018 Jun;21(6):616-621. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2018.1454453. Epub
 2018 Apr 3.

Prospective utility study of patients with multiple cardiovascular events.

Pockett RD(1), McEwan P(2), Ray J(3), Tran I(4), Shutler S(3), Martin S(5), 
Yousef Z(6), Bakhai A(7).

Author information:
(1)a Swansea University , Swansea , UK.
(2)b Health Economics and Outcomes Research Ltd , Cardiff , UK.
(3)c F. Hoffmann-La Roche , Basel , Switzerland.
(4)d Roche Products Ltd , Welwyn Garden City , UK.
(5)e Peterborough and Stamford Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust , Peterborough , 
UK.
(6)f University Hospital of Wales , Cardiff , UK.
(7)g Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust , Barnet , UK.

OBJECTIVES: The effects of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) events on 
health-related quality-of-life (HRQoL) and the time dependency of these effects 
are unknown. This study aimed to characterize health utilities in ACS patients 
to aid development of future economic models estimating the cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year impact of ACS events and potential treatments.
METHODS: Multi-center, non-interventional, longitudinal evaluation of health 
utility in patients experiencing ACS or stroke events. EuroQol-5 dimension 3 
level (EQ-5D-3L) surveys were sent to patients (≥18 years) from three UK 
centers, 1 month after hospital discharge for myocardial infarction (MI), 
unstable angina (UA), or stroke. Patient demographics, lifestyle, and baseline 
utility score were collected in the first survey. Follow-up surveys were sent at 
6, 12, 18, and 24 months to prospectively capture utility and subsequent health 
events. Two methods of patient identification were adopted-prospective, where 
the patient's qualifying events occurred after the study index date, and 
retrospective, where the patient's qualifying event occurred prior to the study 
index date. General healthy population utility values were assumed for pre-event 
HRQoL.
RESULTS: Between January 2011 and March 2014, 2,103 prospectively 
(n = 1,350)/retrospectively (n = 753) identified patients (mean age = 68.3 
years; 67.9% male) responded: MI = 55.9% (n = 1,176), UA = 42.7% (n = 898), 
stroke = 1.4% (n = 29); 24% had type 2 diabetes. Post-event utility values were 
lower than general healthy population values, although significant differences 
in utility between subsequent 6 (n = 1,031, change = -0.002), 12 (n = 1,096, 
change = -0.008), 18 (n = 1,246, change = -0.007), and 24 (n = 1,277, 
change = -0.004) month timepoints were not detected. Through multivariate 
regression analyses, wheelchair use, current smoking, and secondary mental and 
joint health events were associated with the greatest statistically significant 
utility decrements.
CONCLUSIONS: This study indicates that health utility decreases following a 
cardiovascular event and, although some improvement occurs over the subsequent 
24 months, general healthy population utility is not necessarily attained.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2018.1454453
PMID: 29557218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Arch Argent Pediatr. 2018 Apr 1;116(2):e300-e302. doi:
10.5546/aap.2018.e300.

[Congenital erythropoietic porphyria: case report and management 
recommendations].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Salomone B C(1), Ogueta C I(2), Reyes V C(1), Durán S G(3), Aguirre N(3), 
Wietstruck A(3).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Dermatología, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, 
Santiago, Chile.
(2)Departamento de Dermatología, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, 
Santiago, Chile. iaogueta@uc.cl.
(3)División de Pediatría, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, 
Chile.

Congenital erythropoietic porphyria is an extremely rare, autosomal recessive, 
non-acute cutaneous porphyria, caused by uroporphyrinogen III synthase 
deficiency, codificated by UROS gene on the chromosome 10q26.2. Porphyrins 
deposit in cornea, bones and teeth. The first symptoms could be manifested in 
early childhood, with skin fragility, vesicles and bullae. Severe course 
produces acral tissues mutilation, eye involvement, hemolytic anemia and 
hypersplenism. The treatment is complex and it is based in the photoprotection. 
A correct diagnosis can significantly improve the quality and life expectancy of 
these patients. We present the case of a child with congenital erythropoietic 
porphyria confirmed by genetic analysis.

Publisher: La porfiria eritropoyética congènita es una porfiria cutánea no 
aguda, extremadamente poco frecuente, autosómica recesiva, producida por la 
deficiencia de la enzima uroporfirinógeno III sintetasa codificada en el gen 
UROS, en el cromosoma 10q26.2. Esto genera el depósito y la acumulación de 
porfirinas en las córneas, los huesos y los dientes. Se presenta desde los 
primeros meses de vida con intensa fotosensibilidad, que se manifiesta con 
fragilidad cutánea con formación de vesículas, bulas y costras. El curso grave 
lleva a la mutilación de tejidos acrales, compromiso ocular, anemia hemolítica e 
hiperesplenismo. El manejo es complejo, basado, sobre todo, en la 
fotoprotección. Un correcto diagnóstico y enfrentamiento puede mejorar 
notablemente la calidad y expectativas de vida de estos pacientes. Se presenta 
el caso de un lactante con porfiria eritropoyética congénita confirmada con el 
estudio genético.

Sociedad Argentina de Pediatría.

DOI: 10.5546/aap.2018.e300
PMID: 29557620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. PLoS One. 2018 Mar 20;13(3):e0194572. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0194572. 
eCollection 2018.

Evaluation of maslinic acid with whole-body vibration training in elderly women 
with knee osteoarthritis.

Yoon J(1), Kanamori A(2), Fujii K(3), Isoda H(4)(5), Okura T(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health and Sport Science, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Japan.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Japan.
(3)Doctoral Program in Physical Education, Health and Sport Science, University 
of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Japan.
(4)Faculty of Life and Environmental Science, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, 
Japan.
(5)Alliance for Research on North Africa (ARENA), University of Tsukuba, 
Tsukuba, Japan.

PURPOSE: Maslinic acid (MA) is a component derived from a natural olive-based 
extract known to have pharmacological functions that include suppressing 
inflammation. This study examined how MA, in conjunction with whole-body 
vibration training (WBVT), can improve knee and muscle function in elderly women 
with knee osteoarthritis (OA).
METHODS: The study was a double-blinded, placebo-controlled, randomized 
intervention study that enrolled individuals with knee pain. Participants were 
26 females aged 65-85 years with knee OA. They performed WBVT and ingested 
either 16.7 mg of MA or a placebo daily for 20 weeks. We compared the effect of 
WBVT with placebo (WBVT/P) and WBVT with MA (WBVT/MA) in participants with 
various degrees of knee OA (Kellgren and Lawrence (K-L) grade) using the 
Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) score and isokinetic dynamometer 
measurements to evaluate knee and muscle function with two-way ANOVA.
RESULTS: Based on the results of two-way ANOVA analysis of muscle function 
measurements, there was significant interaction (time × group) (P = 0.03) in the 
"isokinetic extension peak torque" domain for severe OA (K-L grade ≥ 3). The 
simple main effect of time in the WBVT/MA group (P = 0.04) contributed to this 
interaction. The JOA score for WBVT/MA supported the main effect of group as 
having a significant correlation in the "pain on walking" (P = 0.04) and "range 
of motion" (P < 0.01) domains. Participants with severe knee OA in the WBVT/MA 
group improved in these domains, whereas the WBVT/P group had few positive 
results.
CONCLUSIONS: Participants with severe OA who ingested MA in conjunction with 
WBVT improved their knee and muscle function. This study suggests that ingesting 
the anti-inflammatory supplement MA while participating in WBVT, elderly women 
can reduce knee OA and improve their knee muscle strength.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0194572
PMCID: PMC5860762
PMID: 29558490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


256. Soc Sci Med. 2018 May;204:39-50. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2018.03.010. Epub
2018  Mar 7.

Valuing health at the end of life: A review of stated preference studies in the 
social sciences literature.

Shah KK(1), Tsuchiya A(2), Wailoo AJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Office of Health Economics, UK; School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, UK. Electronic address: kshah@ohe.org.
(2)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, UK; 
Department of Economics, University of Sheffield, UK.
(3)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, UK.

A source of debate in the health care priority setting literature is whether to 
weight health gains to account for equity considerations, such as concern for 
those with very short life expectancy. This paper reviews the empirical evidence 
in the published social sciences literature relevant to the following research 
question: do members of the public wish to place greater weight on a unit of 
health gain for end-of-life patients than on that for other types of patients? 
An electronic search of the Social Sciences Citation Index for articles 
published until October 2017 was conducted, with follow-up of references to 
obtain additional data. Hierarchical criteria were applied to select empirical 
studies reporting stated preferences relating to hypothetical health care 
priority setting contexts. Twenty-three studies met the inclusion criteria and 
were included in the review. Choice exercises were the most common method used 
to elicit preferences; other approaches included budget allocation, person 
trade-off and willingness-to-pay. Some studies found that observed preferences 
regarding end-of-life patients are influenced by information about the patients' 
ages. Overall, the evidence is mixed, with eight studies that report evidence 
consistent with a 'premium' for end-of-life treatments and 11 studies that do 
not. Methodological and design aspects that appear to influence the findings of 
end-of-life-related preference studies are identified and discussed. The 
findings of the UK studies have particular relevance for assessing the 
legitimacy of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence's policy for 
appraising life-extending end-of-life treatments.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2018.03.010
PMID: 29558702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2018 Dec;24(12):1328-1332. doi: 
10.1016/j.cmi.2018.03.013. Epub 2018 Mar 17.

Identifying a consensus sample type to test for Chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseria 
gonorrhoeae, Mycoplasma genitalium, Trichomonas vaginalis and human 
papillomavirus.

Coorevits L(1), Traen A(2), Bingé L(2), Van Dorpe J(3), Praet M(3), Boelens 
J(4), Padalko E(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Ghent University Hospital, Belgium; 
Department of Clinical Chemistry, Microbiology and Immunology, Ghent University, 
Belgium. Electronic address: liselotte.coorevits@ugent.be.
(2)Pasop VZW, Ghent, Belgium.
(3)Department of Pathology, Ghent University and Ghent University Hospital, 
Ghent, Belgium.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Ghent University Hospital, Belgium; 
Department of Clinical Chemistry, Microbiology and Immunology, Ghent University, 
Belgium.
(5)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Ghent University Hospital, Belgium; 
Department of Clinical Chemistry, Microbiology and Immunology, Ghent University, 
Belgium; School of Life Sciences, Hasselt University, Diepenbeek, Belgium.

OBJECTIVES: Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) are a global cause of acute 
illness. Early detection plays a crucial role in interrupting transmission and 
preventing complications. However, the accessibility of STI testing is curbed by 
the lack of an overall preferred sample type. By means of a prospective study in 
female sex workers (FSW), we compared the sensitivity of samples from different 
anatomical sites in detecting Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Chlamydia trachomatis, 
Trichomonas vaginalis, Mycoplasma genitalium and human papillomavirus. Besides, 
we documented the prevalence of each STI in this high-risk population.
METHODS: We selected 303 FSW and tested them for each STI by nucleic acid 
amplification testing on two vaginal and cervical swabs from different 
manufacturers, cervical smear and first-void urine. The sensitivity of each 
sample type was compared for each infectious agent in order to identify a 
consensus sample type.
RESULTS: Vaginal swabs were superior to all other sample types, with an overall 
sensitivity of 86%. The sensitivity was the lowest for first-void urine, 
detecting only 63% of positive cases. The prevalence was 3.3% (10/299) for 
Neisseria gonorrhoeae; 9.0% (27/299) for Chlamydia trachomatis; 7.4% (22/298) 
for Trichomonas vaginalis; 10.8% (32/296) for Mycoplasma genitalium and 55.6% 
(158/284) for human papillomavirus.
CONCLUSIONS: When testing for STIs, vaginal swabs are the sample of choice and 
first-void urine should be avoided. Designating (self-sampled) vaginal swabs as 
a consensus sample type enables harmonization of STI testing and extension of 
testing to large numbers of unscreened females.

Copyright © 2018 European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious 
Diseases. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmi.2018.03.013
PMID: 29559392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Eur J Endocrinol. 2018 Jun;178(6):R245-R258. doi: 10.1530/EJE-18-0022. Epub
2018  Mar 20.

Mechanisms in endocrinology: Antipsychotic medication and type 2 diabetes and 
impaired glucose regulation.

Whicher CA(1), Price HC(1), Holt RIG(2).

Author information:
(1)Research and Development Department, Tom Rudd Unit, Moorgreen Hospital, 
Southampton, UK.
(2)Human Development and Health Academic Unit, Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Southampton, Southampton, UK.

OBJECTIVE: There have been concerns about the effects of antipsychotics on 
weight gain and the development of type 2 diabetes (T2DM). This article aims to 
provide an up-to-date review on the evidence addressing this issue and the 
practical implications for the management of people taking antipsychotics in the 
context of T2DM.
METHODS: We carried out searches on MEDLINE/PUBMED and the ClinicalTrials.gov 
website in August 2017 using the terms 'antipsychotic' and 'diabetes' or 
'glucose' citing articles published after 2006 preferentially.
RESULTS: Antipsychotics are associated with T2DM and are likely to exert a 
causal effect of uncertain magnitude. Children and adolescents appear especially 
vulnerable to these metabolic effects; as T2DM is not common in healthy younger 
people, the relative risk is more apparent. Antipsychotics act on glucose and 
insulin homeostasis in a variety of direct and indirect mechanisms. To reduce 
the increasing health inequalities among individuals with mental illness 
screening, monitoring and prevention of T2DM is important, as is improved 
diabetes care in this population.
CONCLUSION: It remains unclear whether these antipsychotic medications 
exacerbate an underlying predisposition to the development of T2DM or have a 
direct effect. Potential risks need to be weighed up and balanced between 
improved and lasting mental health benefits and any detrimental physical health 
side effects. Achieving parity of esteem between mental and physical health is a 
worldwide priority if we wish to improve life expectancy and quality of life in 
people with severe mental illness.

© 2018 European Society of Endocrinology.

DOI: 10.1530/EJE-18-0022
PMID: 29559497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Ann Rehabil Med. 2018 Feb;42(1):166-174. doi: 10.5535/arm.2018.42.1.166.
Epub  2018 Feb 28.

