based on chronic diseases. The average follow-up time for health indicators was 
6.8 (SD 5.2) years.
RESULTS: a clear dose-response relationship between higher physical activity 
levels and increased healthy and chronic disease-free LE in men and women, and 
within occupational statuses was found. On average, vigorously active men and 
women lived 6.3 years longer in good health and 2.9 years longer without chronic 
diseases between ages 50 and 75 compared to inactive individuals. The difference 
in years in good health between vigorously active and inactive individuals was 
the largest in individuals with low occupation status (6.7 years).
CONCLUSION: higher levels of physical activity increase healthy and chronic 
disease-free years similarly in men and women, but more among persons with low 
than with high occupational status.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afy016
PMID: 29546375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Singapore Med J. 2018 Jul;59(7):383-389. doi: 10.11622/smedj.2018022. Epub
2018  Mar 16.

Cost-effectiveness of indacaterol/glycopyrronium in comparison with 
salmeterol/fluticasone combination for patients with moderate-to-severe chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease: a LANTERN population analysis from Singapore.

Tee A(1), Chow WL(2), Burke C(3), Guruprasad B(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Changi General 
Hospital, Singapore.
(2)Health Services Research, Eastern Health Alliance, Singapore.
(3)HE Modelling, Novartis Ireland Ltd, Ireland.
(4)Medical Affairs, Novartis Singapore Pte Ltd, Singapore.

INTRODUCTION: In light of the growing evidence base for better clinical results 
with the use of the dual bronchodilator indacaterol/glycopyrronium (IND/GLY) 
over inhaled corticosteroid-containing salmeterol/fluticasone combination (SFC), 
this study aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of IND/GLY over SFC in 
patients with moderate-to-severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) 
who are at low risk of exacerbations, in the Singapore healthcare setting.
METHODS: A previously published patient-level simulation model was adapted for 
use in Singapore by applying local unit costs. The model was populated with 
clinical data from the LANTERN and ECLIPSE studies. Both costs and health 
outcomes were predicted for the lifetime horizon from a payer's perspective and 
were discounted at 3% per annum. Costs were expressed in 2015 USD exchange 
rates. Uncertainty was assessed through probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Compared to SFC, use of IND/GLY increased mean life expectancy by 0.316 
years and mean quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) by 0.246 years, and decreased 
mean total treatment costs (drug costs and management of associated events) by 
USD 1,474 over the entire lifetime horizon. IND/GLY was considered to be 100% 
cost-effective at a threshold of 1 × gross domestic product per capita. The 
cost-effectiveness acceptability curve showed that IND/GLY was 100% 
cost-effective at a willingness-to-pay threshold of USD 0 (additional cost) when 
compared to SFC.
CONCLUSION: IND/GLY was estimated to be highly cost-effective compared to SFC in 
patients with moderate-to-severe COPD who are not at high risk of exacerbations 
in the Singapore healthcare setting.

Copyright: © Singapore Medical Association.

DOI: 10.11622/smedj.2018022
PMCID: PMC6056374
PMID: 29546433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Pharmacoeconomics. 2018 Sep;36(9):1063-1072. doi: 10.1007/s40273-018-0639-0.

Tofacitinib for Treating Rheumatoid Arthritis After the Failure of 
Disease-Modifying Anti-rheumatic Drugs: An Evidence Review Group Perspective of 
a NICE Single Technology Appraisal.

Uttley L(1), Bermejo I(2), Ren S(2), Martyn-St James M(2), Wong R(2), Scott 
DL(3), Young A(4), Stevenson M(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield, S1 4DA, UK. l.uttley@sheffield.ac.uk.
(2)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield, S1 4DA, UK.
(3)Department of Rheumatology, King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, 
London, UK.
(4)Center for Lifespan and Chronic Illness Research, University of 
Hertfordshire, College Lane, Hatfield, UK.

As part of its Single Technology Appraisal process, the National Institute for 
Health and Care Excellence (NICE) invited the manufacturer (Pfizer) of 
tofacitinib (TOF; Xeljanz®) to submit evidence of the drug's clinical and 
cost-effectiveness in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) after the 
failure of conventional disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (cDMARDs). The 
School of Health and Related Research Technology Appraisal Group at the 
University of Sheffield was commissioned to act as the independent Evidence 
Review Group (ERG). The ERG produced a detailed review of the evidence for the 
clinical and cost-effectiveness of the technology, based upon the company's 
submission to NICE. The clinical effectiveness evidence in the company's 
submission for TOF is based predominantly on four randomised controlled trials 
(RCTs) comparing the efficacy of TOF against placebo. Three RCTs investigated 
TOF in combination with methotrexate (MTX), and one RCT investigated TOF 
monotherapy. All four RCTs compared TOF with placebo plus cDMARDs, one RCT also 
included adalimumab as a comparator. The study population in the four RCTs 
comprised patients who were MTX inadequate responders or cDMARD inadequate 
responders (cDMARD-IR). The company performed network meta-analyses (NMA) to 
assess the relative efficacy of TOF compared with biologic DMARDs (bDMARDs) in 
patients who were cDMARD-IR or bDMARD-IR with moderate-to-severe RA for European 
League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) response and change in the Health Assessment 
Questionnaire Disability Index at 6 months. The company's NMA concluded that TOF 
had comparable efficacy to bDMARDs currently recommended by NICE. The company 
submitted a de novo model that assessed the cost-effectiveness of TOF versus its 
comparators in six different populations: (1) cDMARD-IR with severe RA; (2) 
cDMARD-IR with severe RA for whom MTX is contraindicated or not tolerated; (3) 
bDMARD-IR; (4) bDMARD-IR for whom rituximab (RTX) is contraindicated or not 
tolerated; (5) bDMARD-IR for whom MTX is contraindicated or not tolerated; and, 
(6) cDMARD-IR with moderate RA. According to the company's economic analyses, in 
cDMARD-IR with severe RA, TOF plus MTX dominates or extendedly dominates most 
comparators, whilst TOF monotherapy is slightly less effective and less 
expensive than its comparators, with the cost saved per quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) lost always higher than £50,000. In bDMARD-IR with severe RA, RTX 
plus MTX dominated TOF plus MTX, but in patients for whom RTX was not an option, 
TOF plus MTX dominated all comparators included in the analysis (four 
comparators recommended by NICE were not included). In cDMARD-IR with moderate 
RA, the cost per QALY for TOF in combination with MTX or as monotherapy compared 
with a sequence of cDMARDs was estimated to be greater than £50,000/QALY. The 
ERG identified a number of limitations in the company's analyses, including use 
of a fixed-effects model in the NMA and the use of treatment sequences in the 
cost-effectiveness model which did not reflect NICE recommendations. These 
limitations were addressed partly by the company during the clarification round 
and partly by the ERG. The exploratory analyses undertaken by the ERG resulted 
in similar conclusions: (1) TOF plus MTX was dominated by RTX plus MTX; (2) TOF 
in combination with MTX or as monotherapy dominates or extendedly dominates some 
of its comparators in cDMARD-IR and bDMARD-IR with severe RA for whom RTX plus 
MTX was not an option; and (3) in cDMARD-IR with moderate RA, the cost per QALY 
of TOF in combination with MTX or as a monotherapy versus cDMARDs was in excess 
of £47,000. The NICE Appraisal Committee consequently recommended TOF plus MTX 
as an option for patients whose disease has responded inadequately to intensive 
therapy with a combination of cDMARDs only if (1) disease is severe [a Disease 
Activity Score (DAS28) of more than 5.1] and (2) the company provides TOF with 
the discount agreed in the Patient Access Scheme (PAS). TOF plus MTX is also 
recommended as an option for adults whose disease has responded inadequately to, 
or who cannot have, other DMARDs, including at least one bDMARD, only if (1) 
disease is severe, (2) they cannot have RTX, and (3) the company provides TOF 
with the discount agreed in the PAS. For patients who are intolerant of MTX, or 
where MTX is contraindicated, TOF monotherapy is recommended where TOF plus MTX 
would be recommended.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-018-0639-0
PMID: 29546668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Minerva Cardioangiol. 2018 Oct;66(5):594-599. doi: 
10.23736/S0026-4725.18.04654-6. Epub 2018 Mar 15.

Definitions and clinical impact of revascularization completeness.

Aurigemma C(1), Burzotta F(2), Russo G(2), Previ L(2), Trani C(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cardiology, Catholic University of the Sacred Heart, Rome, Italy 
- aurigemma.cristina@gmail.com.
(2)Institute of Cardiology, Catholic University of the Sacred Heart, Rome, 
Italy.

The completeness of revascularization in patients with multivessel coronary 
artery disease (CAD) remains an unanswered question. Despite 20 years of 
investigation there are still major doubts in this topic, reaching as far as to 
the lack of a standardized definition. The employment of different definition 
and the multiplicity of confounding variables that in general favor patients who 
receive a complete revascularization (CR) are the reason of difficult 
comparisons between studies. The complexity of coronary anatomy diseases and the 
clinical features play important role in the revascularization strategy. 
However, the clinical impact of CR is different in particular clinical subsets, 
such as diabetes, ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction, cardiogenic shock, 
ischemic heart failure. The CR is a desirable objective, but it is not mandatory 
and sometimes a reasonable incomplete revascularization (IR) offers comparable 
results. Clinical variables, including patient's age, life expectancy, the 
severity of symptoms at presentation, comorbidities (particularly diabetes 
mellitus), left ventricular function and myocardial viability, as well as 
coronary anatomy should be considered in the decision making whether to attempt 
CR or to follow a reasonable IR strategy, for both percutaneous coronary 
intervention and coronary artery bypass graft surgery, in patients with 
multivessel CAD.

DOI: 10.23736/S0026-4725.18.04654-6
PMID: 29546745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Biomed Mater. 2018 Mar 16;13(3):030201. doi: 10.1088/1748-605X/aab171.

Biomedical materials to meet the challenges of the aging epidemic.

Spector M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School and VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, MA, United States of 
America.

The number and percentage of people throughout the world who will be 60 years of 
age and older are steadily growing due to reduced fertility rate and longer life 
expectancy. We are facing the prospect that large numbers of individuals in 
countries throughout the world will be living longer with disability and pain 
resulting from age-related disorders. We have a wide array of biomedical 
materials that could serve as the basis for treatments to deal with these 
problems. It is important to begin now to investigate how these biomaterials can 
be deployed in conjunction with the necessary biologics to treat lesions at an 
early stage of their development, while meeting the criteria of low cost and 
minimal invasiveness.

DOI: 10.1088/1748-605X/aab171
PMID: 29546842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Am Econ Rev. 2016 May;106(5):472-7. doi: 10.1257/aer.p20161112.

HIV/AIDS and Development: A Reappraisal of the Productivity and Factor 
Accumulation Effects.

Azomahou TT(1), Boucekkine R(2), Diene B(3).

Author information:
(1)UNU-MERIT, Maastricht University and CERDI, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(2)Aix-Marseille University (AMSE), CNRS and EHESS, Marseille, France.
(3)CERDI, Clermont-Ferrand, France.

DOI: 10.1257/aer.p20161112
PMID: 29547252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. CJEM. 2018 Sep;20(5):798-801. doi: 10.1017/cem.2018.20. Epub 2018 Mar 16.

Left ventricular outflow tract pseudoaneurysm diagnosed with point-of-care 
ultrasound in the emergency department.

Kapur P(1), Baimel M(2), Chenkin J(2).

Author information:
(1)*Department of Emergency Medicine,University of Saskatchewan,Saskatoon,SK.
(2)†Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre,Toronto,ON.

Left ventricular outflow tract pseudoaneurysms are a rare but life-threatening 
disorder, often caused by complications of cardiac surgery or myocardial 
infarction. We present a case report of a patient with no prior risk factors who 
presented with a six-month history of progressive exertional dyspnea, bilateral 
leg swelling and cough. Point-of-care ultrasound revealed an unexpected 
outpouching of the left ventricle. He was diagnosed with a left ventricular 
outflow tract pseudoaneurysm and subsequently went into cardiogenic shock 
secondary to extension of pseudoaneurysm causing extrinsic compression of the 
coronary arteries. The patient underwent successful emergency surgical repair 
and made a full recovery.

DOI: 10.1017/cem.2018.20
PMID: 29547367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Trials. 2018 Mar 16;19(1):186. doi: 10.1186/s13063-018-2551-5.

The combined effect of Parathyroid hormone (1-34) and whole-body Vibration 
exercise in the treatment of OSteoporosis (PaVOS)- study protocol for a 
randomized controlled trial.

Jepsen DB(1)(2), Ryg J(3)(4), Jørgensen NR(5)(6), Hansen S(4)(7), Masud 
T(3)(4)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Odense University Hospital, Odense, 
Denmark. Ditte.Beck.Jepsen2@rsyd.dk.
(2)Institute of Clinical Research, Faculty of Health Science, University of 
Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark. Ditte.Beck.Jepsen2@rsyd.dk.
(3)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Odense University Hospital, Odense, 
Denmark.
(4)Institute of Clinical Research, Faculty of Health Science, University of 
Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(5)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(6)OPEN - Odense Patient data Explorative Network, The University of Southern 
Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(7)Department of Endocrinology, Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark.
(8)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Nottingham University Hospitals Trust NHS, 
Nottingham, UK.

BACKGROUND: PaVOS is a randomized controlled trial (RCT) which aims to address 
the use of whole-body vibration exercise (WBV) in combination with parathyroid 
hormone 1-34 fragment teriparatide (PTH 1-34) treatment in patients with 
osteoporosis. PTH 1-34 is an effective but expensive anabolic treatment for 
osteoporosis. WBV has been found to stimulate muscle and bone growth. Animal 
studies have shown a beneficial effect on bone when combining PTH 1-34 with 
mechanical loading. A combined treatment with PTH 1-34 and WBV may potentially 
have beneficial effects on bone and muscles, and reduce fracture risk.
METHODS/DESIGN: PaVOS is a multicenter, assessor-blinded, superiority, two-armed 
randomized controlled trial (RCT). Postmenopausal women (n = 40, aged 50 years 
and older) starting taking PTH 1-34 from outpatient clinics will be randomized 
and assigned to a PTH 1-34 + WBV-exercise group (intervention group), or a PTH 
1-34-alone group (control group). The intervention group will undergo WBV three 
sessions a week (12 min each, including 1:1 ratio of exercise: rest, 30 Hz, 1 mm 
amplitude) for a 12-month intervention period. Both the intervention and the 
control group will receive PTH 1-34 treatment (20 μg s.c. daily) for 24 months. 
After 12 months the WBV group will be re-randomized to stop or continue WBV for 
an additional 12 months. The primary endpoint, bone mineral density (BMD), will 
be measured by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry of the total hip and the lumbar 
spine. Secondary endpoints, bone microarchitecture and estimated bone strength, 
will be assessed using high-resolution peripheral quantitative computed 
tomography (HR-pQCT) of the radius and tibia. Serum bone turnover markers 
(carboxy-terminal collagen crosslinks (CTX), amino-terminal propeptide of type-I 
collagen (P1NP), and sclerostin) and functional biomarkers (Timed Up and Go 
(TUG), Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB), grip strength, and leg 
extension power) will be measured to assess the effect on bone turnover, muscle 
strength, balance, and functionality. Quality of life (EQ-5D), physical activity 
(IPAQ) and fear of falling (FES-I) will be assessed by questionnaires. Data on 
adherence and falls incidence will be collected.
DISCUSSION: The PaVOS study will investigate the effects of WBV in combination 
with PTH 1-34 on bone parameters in postmenopausal women.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, ID: NCT02563353 . Registered on 30 
September 2015.

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-018-2551-5
PMCID: PMC5857123
PMID: 29548300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: This 
study will be conducted according to the standards of International Conference 
on Harmonization, Research Ethics Committee regulations, any applicable 
government regulations (e.g., The Danish Data Protection Agency), and local 
procedures. The protocol is approved by the Regional Scientific Ethical 
Committee of Southern Denmark (ref. ID S-20150121) and The Danish Data 
Protection Agency (2008-58-0035, 13/40496). Any amendments will be submitted to 
the above ethical committee for approval of the study conduct. The participants 
are covered by the Danish “Complaint and compensation law in health care.” 
Written informed consent will be obtained from each participant. The trial is 
audited in an ongoing manner to insure patient safety. All events and adverse 
events are audited each year. In case of serious adverse events these will be 
sent for audit within 2 weeks. The events are audited independent from the trial 
investigators by The Regional Scientific Ethical Committee of Southern Denmark. 
CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable COMPETING INTERESTS: The investigators 
have no competing interests in the study. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature 
remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and 
institutional affiliations.


225. Bull Cancer. 2018 Mar;105(3):256-262. doi: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2018.02.002.
Epub  2018 Mar 13.

[HIV and cancer : What's new in 2017?].

[Article in French]

Gobert A(1), Veyri M(2), Poizot-Martin I(3), Lavolé A(4), Solas C(5), Paliche 
R(6), Katlama C(6), Costagliola D(7), Spano JP(8).

Author information:
(1)Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, service 
d'oncologie médicale, 47, boulevard de l'Hôpital, 75013 Paris, France. 
Electronic address: aurelien.gobert@aphp.fr.
(2)Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, service 
d'oncologie médicale, 47, boulevard de l'Hôpital, 75013 Paris, France.
(3)Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille, CHU Sainte-Marguerite, service 
d'immuno-hématologie clinique, 20, avenue Viton, 13274 Marseille, France.
(4)Hôpital Tenon, service de pneumologie, 4, rue de la Chine, 75020 Paris, 
France.
(5)Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille, hôpital de la Timone, service de 
pharmacocinétique toxicocinétique, 264, rue Saint-Pierre, 13005 Marseille, 
France.
(6)Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, service des 
maladies infectieuses et tropicales, 47, boulevard de l'Hôpital, 75013 Paris, 
France.
(7)Institut Pierre-Louis d'épidémiologie et de santé publique (IPLESP UMRS 
1136), Sorbonne-universités, UPMC université Paris-06, Inserm, 75013 Paris, 
France.
(8)Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, service 
d'oncologie médicale, 47, boulevard de l'Hôpital, 75013 Paris, France; Institut 
Pierre-Louis d'épidémiologie et de santé publique (IPLESP UMRS 1136), 
Sorbonne-universités, UPMC université Paris-06, Inserm, 75013 Paris, France.

Since the era of combined antiretroviral therapy, life expectancy of people 
living with HIV has been improved and is associated with a change in causes of 
death. Cancer, both AIDS-defining or non-AIDS-defining cancers, has become the 
leading cause of death in people living with HIV associated with an increase in 
the incidence of some cancers compared to the general population. Epidemiology 
and the identification of risk factors is a crucial issue, particularly to 
determine the most appropriate prevention and screening strategies in this 
population. In the absence of dedicated clinical trials, the cancer management 
in these patients is based on general recommendations, with specific attention 
to comorbidities and drug interactions. In addition, the development of new 
innovative therapies such as immunotherapy with inhibitory antibodies of immune 
checkpoints receptor represents a hope for the patient care, both infected or 
not with HIV. In this context, the establishment of the national network 
CancerVIH makes sense, allowing the establishment of multi-disciplinary 
consultation meetings involving all the practitioners involved in the care of 
these patients with cancer, as well as the constitution of a national cohort and 
the promotion of dedicated trials, to improve and optimize the management for 
these patients.

Copyright © 2018 Société Française du Cancer. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2018.02.002
PMID: 29548534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Rev Med Interne. 2018 Aug;39(8):650-653. doi: 10.1016/j.revmed.2017.12.014.
Epub  2018 Mar 13.

[Cancer-screening for older patients].

[Article in French]

Boureau AS(1), de Decker L(2).

Author information:
(1)Service de médecine aiguë gériatrique, CHU de Nantes, boulevard 
Jacques-Monod, 44093 Nantes cedex 01, France. Electronic address: 
annesophie.boureau@chu-nantes.fr.
(2)Service de médecine aiguë gériatrique, CHU de Nantes, boulevard 
Jacques-Monod, 44093 Nantes cedex 01, France.

Cancer-screening programmes are public health action for a target population. It 
guarantees an equal access to screening throughout the country with a high level 
of quality for every person of the target population. Given the heterogeneity of 
older subjects and the variability of the expected benefits of cancer-screening 
programmes, this collective public health action may not have a collective 
benefit for the population. However, for older person with a life expectancy of 
five years or more, it would be possible to propose an individualized 
cancer-screening decision. This cancer-screening approach must respect the 
ethical principles of avoiding harm and supporting autonomy. In addition, it is 
important to consider the goals and values of patients to take an individualized 
decision. Patients with the same profile may not take the same decision of 
individualized cancer screening.

Copyright © 2018 Société Nationale Française de Médecine Interne (SNFMI). 
Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.revmed.2017.12.014
PMID: 29548579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Mar Environ Res. 2018 Jun;137:98-110. doi: 10.1016/j.marenvres.2018.02.022.
Epub  2018 Feb 21.

Thirty year ecosystem trajectories in a submerged marine cave under changing 
pressure regime.

Montefalcone M(1), De Falco G(2), Nepote E(3), Canessa M(2), Bertolino M(2), 
Bavestrello G(2), Morri C(2), Bianchi CN(2).

Author information:
(1)DiSTAV, Department of Earth, Environment and Life Sciences, University of 
Genoa, Corso Europa 26, Genova, Italy. Electronic address: 
montefalcone@dipteris.unige.it.
(2)DiSTAV, Department of Earth, Environment and Life Sciences, University of 
Genoa, Corso Europa 26, Genova, Italy.
(3)DiSTAV, Department of Earth, Environment and Life Sciences, University of 
Genoa, Corso Europa 26, Genova, Italy; Department of Environment and Life 
Sciences, Università Politecnica delle Marche, Via Brecce Bianche, Ancona, 
Italy.

Marine caves are unique and vulnerable habitats exhibiting high biodiversity and 
heterogeneity, but threatened by multiple global and local disturbances. Marine 
caves, although widely distributed along the Mediterranean coast, suffer for the 
lack of quantitative data on their structure and function, which hinder their 
conservation status assessment. Thanks to the availability of a nearly 
30-year-long series of data (1986-2013), we evaluated ecosystem change in the 
Bergeggi marine cave (Ligurian Sea, NW Mediterranean), a cave with a complex 
shape and high habitat heterogeneity. Non-taxonomic descriptors were adopted, 
namely growth forms (GF) and trophic guilds (TG), which are informative about 
ecosystem structure and functioning, respectively. The cave experienced a 
general trend of change during the last three decades, mainly due to the decline 
in the cover of sessile organisms (especially 3-dimensional forms) matched by an 
increase of turf and sediment, thus causing the structural and functional 
homogenization of the cave community. While change before 2004 had been 
attributed to climatic factors (especially to the summer heat waves of 1999 and 
2003), the most important rate of change was observed between 2009 and 2013, 
coinciding with recent major beach nourishments and the extension of the 
neighbouring Vado Ligure harbour, thus providing evidences on the importance of 
local disturbances deriving from coastal interventions. Monitoring the status of 
cave ecosystems is urgently needed, and the use of effective indicators, such as 
the specific traits here adopted (morphology and feeding strategy), could 
provide effective tools to assist marine cave conservation.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.marenvres.2018.02.022
PMID: 29548762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Prev Med. 2018 Jun;111:177-179. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2018.03.011. Epub 2018
Mar  14.

Inefficiencies of over-screening and under-screening for cervical cancer 
prevention in the U.S.

Castle PE(1), Wheeler CM(2), Campos NG(3), Sy S(3), Burger EA(4), Kim JJ(3); New 
Mexico HPV Pap Registry Steering Committee.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA. Electronic address: philip.castle@einstein.yu.edu.
(2)Departments of Pathology and Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of New 
Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, USA.
(3)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard University, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(4)University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.

There is limited information on the cost-inefficiencies of non-adherence to 
recommended cervical cancer screening or the potential value for improving 
non-adherence. We estimated the incremental value of adhering to recommended 
screening every three years with cytology, using a disease simulation model that 
integrated real-world screening practice data from New Mexico. The amount that 
can be spent to improve adherence was estimated by calculating the incremental 
net monetary benefit (INMB) under scenarios of Current Practice (assuming a 
population of mixed adherence) and Uniformly Non-Adherent populations with 
imperfect or perfect adherence to follow-up of screen-positive women. Getting 
unscreened women screened every three years by cytology was a better value than 
increasing screening in the under-screened or reducing screening in the 
over-screened. For example, INMBs were $3998 for screening previously unscreened 
women versus $136 for eliminating annual screening at a willingness-to-pay 
threshold of $100,000 per quality-adjusted life-year gained. Strategies to reach 
unscreened women are potentially high-value investments.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2018.03.011
PMCID: PMC5930058
PMID: 29548787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Mech Ageing Dev. 2019 Jan;177:150-156. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2018.03.006. Epub
2018  Mar 13.

Age-related evolutions of the dermis: Clinical signs, fibroblast and 
extracellular matrix dynamics.

Haydont V(1), Bernard BA(2), Fortunel NO(3).

Author information:
(1)Knowledge and Performance Department, Advanced Research, L'Oréal Research and 
Innovation, 93600, Aulnay-sous-Bois, France. Electronic address: 
vhaydont@rd.loreal.com.
(2)Scientific Directorate, L'Oréal Research and Innovation, 92100, Clichy, 
France.
(3)Laboratoire de Génomique et Radiobiologie de la Kératinopoïèse, Institut de 
Biologie François Jacob, CEA/DRF/IRCM, 91000, Evry, France; INSERM U967, 
Fontenay-aux-Roses, France; Université Paris-Diderot, Paris 7, France; 
Université Paris-Saclay, Paris 11, France. Electronic address: 
nicolas.fortunel@cea.fr.

Ageing is today a major societal concern that is intrinsically associated with 
the increase of life expectancy. Outside the context of severe degenerative 
diseases that affect the elderly populations, normal visible signs of ageing, 
notably skin sagging and wrinkles, influence the social and individual 
perception of peoples. Accordingly, there is a strong demand for researches on 
skin ageing. Deciphering the cellular and molecular processes of skin evolution 
through ageing is thus an active scientific domain, at the frontier of tissue 
developmental and ageing biology. The focus of the present article is to provide 
an overview of the current knowledge concerning the evolution of dermis 
characteristics at different life stages, from intra-uterine to post-natal life. 
The description will integrate stage-specific and age-related changes in dermis 
characteristics at the tissue, cell, and molecular levels.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2018.03.006
PMID: 29548941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Inj Prev. 2019 Aug;25(4):273-277. doi: 10.1136/injuryprev-2017-042537. Epub
2018  Mar 16.

Optimising the cost-effectiveness of speed limit enforcement cameras.

Li S(1), Jiao B(1), Zafari Z(1), Muennig P(1).

Author information:
(1)Mailman School of Public Health, Global Research Analytics for Population 
Health, Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York City, New 
York, USA.

BACKGROUND: Using the 140 speed cameras in New York City (NYC) as a case study, 
we explore how to optimise the number of cameras such that the most lives can be 
saved at the lowest cost.
METHODS: A Markov model was built to explore the economic and health impacts of 
speed camera installations in NYC as well as the optimal number and placement. 
Both direct and indirect medical savings associated with speed cameras are 
weighed against their cost. Health outcomes are measured in terms of 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: Over the lifetime of an average NYC resident, the existing 140 speed 
cameras increase QALYs by 0.00044 units (95% credible interval (CrI) 0.00027 to 
0.00073) and reduce costs by US$70 (95% CrI US$21 to US$131) compared with no 
speed cameras. The return on investment would be maximised where the number of 
cameras more than doubled to 300. This would further increase QALY gains per 
resident by 0.00083 units (95% CrI 0.00072 to 0.00096) while reducing medical 
costs by US$147 (95% CrI US$70 to US$221) compared with existing speed cameras. 
Overall, this increase in cameras would save 7000 QALYs and US$1.2 billion over 
the lifetime of the current cohort of New Yorkers.
CONCLUSION: Speed cameras rank among the most cost-effective social policies, 
saving both money and lives.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2019. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/injuryprev-2017-042537
PMID: 29549105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


231. Development. 2018 Apr 5;145(7):dev159186. doi: 10.1242/dev.159186.

Diet regulates membrane extension and survival of niche escort cells for 
germline homeostasis via insulin signaling.

Su YH(1), Rastegri E(2), Kao SH(1), Lai CM(3)(4)(5), Lin KY(3)(4)(5), Liao 
HY(1), Wang MH(1), Hsu HJ(6)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cellular and Organismic Biology, Academia Sinica, Taipei 11529, 
Taiwan.
(2)Molecular and Cell Biology, Taiwan International Graduate Program, Academia 
Sinica and Graduate Institute of Life Science, National Defense Medical Center, 
Taipei 11529, Taiwan.
(3)Molecular and Biological Agricultural Sciences Program, Taiwan International 
Graduate Program, Academia Sinica and National Chung-Hsing University, Taipei 
11529, Taiwan.
(4)Graduate Institute of Biotechnology, National Chung-Hsing University, 
Taichung 40227, Taiwan.
(5)Biotechnology Center, National Chung-Hsing University, Taichung 40227, 
Taiwan.
(6)Institute of Cellular and Organismic Biology, Academia Sinica, Taipei 11529, 
Taiwan cohsu@gate.sinica.edu.tw.

Diet is an important regulator of stem cell homeostasis; however, the underlying 
mechanisms of this regulation are not fully known. Here, we report that insulin 
signaling mediates dietary maintenance of Drosophila ovarian germline stem cells 
(GSCs) by promoting the extension of niche escort cell (EC) membranes to wrap 
around GSCs. This wrapping may facilitate the delivery of bone morphogenetic 
protein stemness factors from ECs in the niche to GSCs. In addition to the 
effects on GSCs, insulin signaling-mediated regulation of EC number and 
protrusions controls the division and growth of GSC progeny. The effects of 
insulin signaling on EC membrane extension are, at least in part, driven by 
enhanced translation of Failed axon connections (Fax) via Ribosomal protein S6 
kinase. Fax is a membrane protein that may participate in Abelson tyrosine 
kinase-regulated cytoskeletal dynamics and is known to be involved in axon 
bundle formation. Therefore, we conclude that dietary cues stimulate insulin 
signaling in the niche to regulate EC cellular structure, probably via 
Fax-dependent cytoskeleton remodeling. This mechanism enhances intercellular 
contact and facilitates homeostatic interactions between somatic and germline 
cells in response to diet.

© 2018. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.

DOI: 10.1242/dev.159186
PMID: 29549109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare no 
competing or financial interests.


232. J Arthroplasty. 2018 Jul;33(7S):S32-S38. doi: 10.1016/j.arth.2018.02.031.
Epub  2018 Feb 14.

Cost-Effectiveness of Total Knee Arthroplasty vs Nonoperative Management in 
Normal, Overweight, Obese, Severely Obese, Morbidly Obese, and Super-Obese 
Patients: A Markov Model.

Ponnusamy KE(1), Vasarhelyi EM(1), Somerville L(1), McCalden RW(1), Marsh JD(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Western Ontario, London, 
Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: We estimated the cost-effectiveness of performing total knee 
arthroplasty (TKA) vs nonoperative management (NM) among 6 body mass index (BMI) 
cohorts.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to compare the cost-utility of TKA and NM in 6 
BMI groups (nonobese [BMI 18.5-24.9], overweight [25-29.9], obese [30-34.9], 
severely obese [35-39.9], morbidly obese [40-49.9], and super-obese [50+] 
patients) over a 15-year period. Model parameters for transition probability 
(ie, revision, re-revision, death), utility, and costs were estimated from the 
literature. Direct medical costs but not indirect societal costs were included 
in the model. Costs and utilities were discounted 3% annually. The primary 
outcome was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of TKA vs NM. 
One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses of the model parameters were 
performed to determine the robustness of the model.
RESULTS: Over the 15-year period, the ICERs for the TKA vs NM for the different 
BMI categories were nonobese ($3317/quality-adjusted life years [QALYs]), 
overweight ($2837/QALY), obese ($2947/QALY), severely obese ($3536/QALY), 
morbidly obese ($5531/QALY), and super-obese ($11,878/QALY). The higher BMI 
groups tended to have higher incremental QALYs and also higher incremental 
costs. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis with an ICER threshold of 
$30,000/QALY showed that TKA would be cost-effective in 100% of simulations of 
patients with a BMI<50 and 99.16% of super-obese simulations.
CONCLUSION: While performing TKA on super-obese patients is more expensive, the 
substantial improvements in patient outcomes make it cost-effective. Therefore, 
withholding TKA care based on a BMI would lead to an unjustified loss of 
health-care access.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arth.2018.02.031
PMID: 29550168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2018 Apr 15;1083:222-232.
doi:  10.1016/j.jchromb.2018.02.003. Epub 2018 Feb 6.

Headspace solid-phase microextraction (HS-SPME) combined with GC-MS as a process 
analytical technology (PAT) tool for monitoring the cultivation of C. tetani.

Ghader M(1), Shokoufi N(2), Es-Haghi A(3), Kargosha K(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Green Technologies, Chemistry & Chemical Engineering Research 
Center of Iran (CCERCI), Pazhuhesh Blvd., 17th km of Tehran-Karaj highway, 
14968-13151 Tehran, Iran; Department of Physico Chemistry, Razi Vaccine & Serum 
Research Institute (RVSRI), Agricultural Research, Education and Extension 
Organization (AREEO), P.O. Box 31975/148, Karaj, Iran.
(2)Department of Green Technologies, Chemistry & Chemical Engineering Research 
Center of Iran (CCERCI), Pazhuhesh Blvd., 17th km of Tehran-Karaj highway, 
14968-13151 Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: n.shokoufi@ccerci.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Physico Chemistry, Razi Vaccine & Serum Research Institute 
(RVSRI), Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), 
P.O. Box 31975/148, Karaj, Iran.
(4)Department of Green Technologies, Chemistry & Chemical Engineering Research 
Center of Iran (CCERCI), Pazhuhesh Blvd., 17th km of Tehran-Karaj highway, 
14968-13151 Tehran, Iran.

Vaccine production is a biological process in which variation in time and output 
is inevitable. Thus, the application of Process Analytical Technologies (PAT) 
will be important in this regard. Headspace solid - phase microextraction 
(HS-SPME) coupled with GC-MS can be used as a PAT for process monitoring. This 
method is suitable to chemical profiling of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 
emitted from microorganisms. Tetanus is a lethal disease caused by Clostridium 
tetani (C. tetani) bacterium and vaccination is an ultimate way to prevent this 
disease. In this paper, SPME fiber was used for the investigation of VOCs 
emerging from C. tetani during cultivation. Different types of VOCs such as 
sulfur-containing compounds were identified and some of them were selected as 
biomarkers for bioreactor monitoring during vaccine production. In the second 
step, the portable dynamic air sampling (PDAS) device was used as an interface 
for sampling VOCs by SPME fibers. The sampling procedure was optimized by 
face-centered central composite design (FC-CCD). The optimized sampling time and 
inlet gas flow rates were 10 min and 2 m L s-1, respectively. PDAS was mounted 
in exhausted gas line of bioreactor and 42 samples of VOCs were prepared by SPME 
fibers in 7 days during incubation. Simultaneously, pH and optical density (OD) 
were evaluated to cultivation process which showed good correlations with the 
identified VOCs (>80%). This method could be used for VOCs sampling from off-gas 
of a bioreactor to monitoring of the cultivation process.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2018.02.003
PMID: 29550684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Neuroepidemiology. 2018;50(3-4):144-152. doi: 10.1159/000487761. Epub 2018
Mar  14.

Incidence and Risk Profile of Dementia in the Regions of Middle East and North 
Africa.

Bhalla D(1)(2), Lotfalinezhad E(3), Amini F(3), Salmannejad M(4), Reza Borhani 
Nezhad V(5), Rezai Kooshalshah SF(6), Delbari A(3), Fadayevatan R(7), Irmansyah 
I(8), Abdelrahman A(9), Bhatta NK(10), Gharagozli K(11).

Author information:
(1)Iranian Epilepsy Association, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Nepal Interest Group of Epilepsy and Neurology, Kathmandu, Nepal.
(3)Research Center on Aging, University of Social Welfare and Rehabilitation 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Research Center on Electronic Health, Faculity of Science and Research, 
Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Health Research Center of Social Determinants, Institute for Future Studies 
in Health, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(6)Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat Modares University, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Department of Aging, University of Social Welfare and Rehabilitation 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(8)Marzoeki Mahdi Hospital, Bogor, Indonesia.
(9)University of Khartoum, Khartoum, Sudan.
(10)Shree Medical and Technical College, Chitwan, Nepal.
(11)Department of Neurology, Loghman Hakim Hospital, Shahid Beheshti University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: The risk of dementia is reported as "epidemic" and "looming" over 
the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region. For this, we performed a 
multi-language review and feasible analysis on the incidence of dementia to 
offer apt conclusions.
METHODS: Totally, 3 databases (Magiran, Scientific Information Database, and 
PubMed) and 1 non-database source (Google) were searched in French, English, and 
Persian by using specific keywords and their combinations. All searches were 
independent and had no restriction for the year or type of publication. We also 
calculated cumulative incidence of dementia for Egypt and Israel-Palestine from 
relevant prevalence estimates by using standard formula.
RESULTS: Little information on incidence was available, sparing Israel 
(2.4/100,000/year; pre-senile). Ten (48.0%) countries had none-to-little 
information (of any kind) on dementia, indicating considerable awareness deficit 
in this region. Cumulative incidence of dementia in Egypt and Israel-Palestine 
was 2.7% over 20 years (55 new cases) and 14.7% (130 new cases) over 6 years, 
respectively. In Lebanon, cumulative incidence was 7.5% over 20 years. Data 
looked across dementia-related factors (i.e., fertility rate, polygamy, 
violence, hypovitaminosis D, diabetes, hypertension, life expectancy, age 
structure) did not seem to support epidemic proportions of dementia for MENA.
CONCLUSIONS: MENA is youthful and dementia here is neither likely to be an 
epidemic nor looming over. The only possible exception might be Arab pocket in 
Israel. To us, previous attributions on dementia do not seem to be based on the 
realities of this region and, therefore, may prevent pragmatic addressal of 
dementia. Lastly, values-based collaborations are invited to jointly fill the 
awareness deficit in a unique low-cost manner.

© 2018 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000487761
PMID: 29550815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2019 Jan;17(1):26-29. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2018.03.012. Epub 2018 Mar 15.

Screening and Surveillance of Varices in Patients With Cirrhosis.

Jakab SS(1), Garcia-Tsao G(2).

Author information:
(1)Section of Digestive Diseases, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut; Section of Digestive Diseases, VA Connecticut Healthcare System, 
West Haven, Connecticut.
(2)Section of Digestive Diseases, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut; Section of Digestive Diseases, VA Connecticut Healthcare System, 
West Haven, Connecticut. Electronic address: guadalupe.garcia-tsao@yale.edu.

Erratum in
    Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2019 Apr;17(5):1009.

Gastro-esophageal varices (GEV) and variceal hemorrhage (VH) are clinical 
milestones in the natural history of cirrhosis, as they are closely related to 
the severity of portal hypertension and define specific stages in disease 
progression. Variceal hemorrhage is a life-threatening complication of cirrhosis 
and is one of the clinical complications that defines cirrhosis decompensation. 
The goal of screening and surveillance of varices is to identify patients with 
GEV at a high risk of bleeding, so that prevention strategies can be 
implemented. There have been significant updates in the management of GEV over 
the last years, particularly in the use of non-invasive methods to assess the 
degree of portal hypertension and the likelihood of having GEV. This paper is 
focused on esophageal varices with or without extension along the lesser 
curvature (type 1 or GOV1), as special considerations are required for the 
management of cardiofundal varices (GOV2 - esophageal varices extending into the 
fundus, or IGV1 - isolated gastric varices in the fundus) or isolated gastric 
varices type 2 (IGV2 – gastric varices elsewhere in the stomach, not in the 
fundus).

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2018.03.012
PMCID: PMC6139072
PMID: 29551741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No relevant conflicts of interest


236. Int J Dent. 2018 Feb 6;2018:4395460. doi: 10.1155/2018/4395460. eCollection 
2018.

Self-Assembled Monolayers for Dental Implants.

Freitas SC(1), Correa-Uribe A(2), Martins MCL(3), Pelaez-Vargas A(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Dentistry, Universidad Cooperativa de Colombia, Medellin, 
Colombia.
(2)Private Practice in Periodontology, Medellin, Colombia.
(3)Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde (I3S), Instituto de Engenharia 
Biomédica (INEB) and Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas Abel Salazar (ICBAS), 
Universidade do Porto, Porto, Portugal.

Implant-based therapy is a mature approach to recover the health conditions of 
patients affected by edentulism. Thousands of dental implants are placed each 
year since their introduction in the 80s. However, implantology faces challenges 
that require more research strategies such as new support therapies for a world 
population with a continuous increase of life expectancy, to control periodontal 
status and new bioactive surfaces for implants. The present review is focused on 
self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) for dental implant materials as a 
nanoscale-processing approach to modify titanium surfaces. SAMs represent an 
easy, accurate, and precise approach to modify surface properties. These are 
stable, well-defined, and well-organized organic structures that allow to 
control the chemical properties of the interface at the molecular scale. The 
ability to control the composition and properties of SAMs precisely through 
synthesis (i.e., the synthetic chemistry of organic compounds with a wide range 
of functional groups is well established and in general very simple, being 
commercially available), combined with the simple methods to pattern their 
functional groups on complex geometry appliances, makes them a good system for 
fundamental studies regarding the interaction between surfaces, proteins, and 
cells, as well as to engineering surfaces in order to develop new biomaterials.

DOI: 10.1155/2018/4395460
PMCID: PMC5818935
PMID: 29552036


237. JRSM Open. 2018 Mar 8;9(3):2054270417751866. doi: 10.1177/2054270417751866. 
eCollection 2018 Mar.

Regional differences in the mid-Victorian diet and their impact on health.

Greaves P(1).

Author information:
(1)Leicester Cancer Research Centre, University of Leicester, Leicester LE2 7LX, 
UK.

Erratum in
    JRSM Open. 2018 Jun 08;9(6):2054270418779895.

The aim of this study was to examine the impact of regional diets on the health 
of the poor in mid-Victorian Britain. Contemporary surveys of regional diets and 
living condition were reviewed. This information was compared with mortality 
data from Britain over the same period. Although there was an overall 
improvement in life expectancy during the latter part of the 19th century, there 
were large regional differences in lifestyle, diet and mortality rates. Dietary 
surveys showed that the poor labouring population in isolated rural areas of 
England, in the mainland and islands of Scotland and in the west of Ireland 
enjoyed the most nutritious diets. These regions also showed the lowest 
mortality rates in Britain. This was not simply the result of better sanitation 
and less mortality from food and waterborne infections but also fewer deaths 
from pulmonary tuberculosis, which is typically associated with better 
nutrition. These more isolated regions where a peasant-style culture provided 
abundant locally produced cheap foodstuffs such as potatoes, vegetables, whole 
grains, and milk and fish, were in the process of disappearing in the face of 
increasing urbanisation. This was to the detriment of many rural poor during the 
latter half of the century. Conversely, increasing urbanisation, with its 
improved transport links, brought greater availability and diversity of foods to 
many others. It was this that that led to an improved nutrition and life 
expectancy for the majority in urbanising Britain, despite the detrimental 
effects of increasing food refinement.

DOI: 10.1177/2054270417751866
PMCID: PMC5846934
PMID: 29552346


238. J Biol Regul Homeost Agents. 2018 Jan-Feb;32(1 Suppl. 1):1.

New scientific synergies to manage patients with severe Rhinitis: allergy 
diagnosis and treatment for ENT specialists.

Masieri S(1), Cavaliere C(2), Incorvaia C(3), Frati F(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sense Organs, Sapienza University, Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Sciences, Sapienza University of Rome, 
Italy.
(3)Cardiac/Pulmonary Rehabilitation, ASST Pini/CTO, Milan, Italy.
(4)Master of Rino-Allergologia Pratica, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Sapienza University of Rome, Italy.

Allergic rhinitis (AR) is a global health problem because of its steadily 
increasing incidence and prevalence that currently concerns about 30% of the 
worlds population. Although AR is not a disease that reduces the life 
expectancy, it is a disorder with a major impact on the quality of life of 
patients, resulting from an impaired social life, school performance and work 
productivity. Furthermore, AR produces significant costs for its treatment.

PMID: 29552865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2016
May-Jun;24(3):144-7.

[The evaluation of economic damage due to premature mortality of population of 
the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia)].

[Article in Russian]

Timofeev LF, Lindenbraten AL, Kakorina EP, Grishina EP, Ivanova AA, Zakharova 
RN, Sivtseva AI, Lutskan IP.

The evaluation of economic damage was implemented in relation to premature 
mortality of population of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), the region with 
particular social economic and natural climatic conditions specific to 
territories of the North. The calculation of economic damage is based on 
methodology proposed by number of ministries of the Russian Federation and 
Rosstat in 2012. The presented evaluations and analysis of materials give an 
idea about total amount of economic damage because of mortality of population of 
the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) which is necessary to consider during 
development of regional programs of decreasing of population mortality.

PMID: 29553227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Lancet. 2018 Feb 21;391 Suppl 2:S17. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(18)30383-0.
Epub  2018 Feb 21.

The effect of smoking on the healthy life expectancy of Palestinian men in the 
West Bank: a cross-sectional study.

Brønnum-Hansen H(1), Jonassen M(2), Shaheen A(3), Duraidi M(4), Qalalwa K(4), 
Jeune B(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
Electronic address: Henrik.bronnum-hansen@sund.ku.dk.
(2)Department of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)Public Health Division, An-Najah National University, Nablus, occupied 
Palestinian territory.
(4)Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics, Ramallah, occupied Palestinian 
territory.
(5)Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: The high prevalence of smoking (40%) in men living in the West Bank 
of the occupied Palestinian territory is a major challenge for the Palestinian 
