LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 4. Laryngoscope, 128:2039-2053, 2018.

© 2017 The American Laryngological, Rhinological and Otological Society, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/lary.27068
PMID: 29508408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Camb Q Healthc Ethics. 2018 Apr;27(2):271-283. doi:
10.1017/S0963180117000603.

Controlling Healthcare Costs: Just Cost Effectiveness or "Just" Cost 
Effectiveness?

Fleck LM.

Meeting healthcare needs is a matter of social justice. Healthcare needs are 
virtually limitless; however, resources, such as money, for meeting those needs, 
are limited. How then should we (just and caring citizens and policymakers in 
such a society) decide which needs must be met as a matter of justice with those 
limited resources? One reasonable response would be that we should use cost 
effectiveness as our primary criterion for making those choices. This article 
argues instead that cost-effectiveness considerations must be constrained by 
considerations of healthcare justice. The goal of this article will be to 
provide a preliminary account of how we might distinguish just from unjust or 
insufficiently just applications of cost-effectiveness analysis to some 
healthcare rationing problems; specifically, problems related to extraordinarily 
expensive targeted cancer therapies. Unconstrained compassionate appeals for 
resources for the medically least well-off cancer patients will be neither just 
nor cost effective.

DOI: 10.1017/S0963180117000603
PMID: 29509125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Camb Q Healthc Ethics. 2018 Apr;27(2):284-294. doi:
10.1017/S0963180117000615.

The Quality Adjusted Life Year: A Total-Utility Perspective.

Firth SJ.

Given that a properly formed utilitarian response to healthcare distribution 
issues should evaluate cost effectiveness against the total utility increase, it 
follows that any utilitarian cost-effectiveness metric should be sensitive to 
increases in both individual and social utility afforded by a given 
intervention. Quality adjusted life year (QALY) based decisionmaking in 
healthcare cannot track increases in social utility, and as a result, the QALY 
cannot be considered a strict utilitarian response to issues of healthcare 
distribution. This article considers arguments against, and a possible defence 
of, the QALY as a utilitarian concept; in response, the article offers a similar 
- but properly formed - utilitarian metric called the (IALY). This article also 
advances a tool called the 'glee factor' (GF) on which the IALY may lean in a 
similar way to which the QALY leans on the Rosser Index.

DOI: 10.1017/S0963180117000615
PMID: 29509126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. PLoS Med. 2018 Mar 6;15(3):e1002501. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1002501. 
eCollection 2018 Mar.

Multimorbidity and survival for patients with acute myocardial infarction in 
England and Wales: Latent class analysis of a nationwide population-based 
cohort.

Hall M(1), Dondo TB(1), Yan AT(2), Mamas MA(3), Timmis AD(4), Deanfield JE(5), 
Jernberg T(6), Hemingway H(7)(8), Fox KAA(9), Gale CP(1)(10).

Author information:
(1)Leeds Institute of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Medicine, University of 
Leeds, Leeds, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Keele Cardiovascular Research Group, Keele University, Stoke-on-Trent, United 
Kingdom.
(4)NIHR Cardiovascular Biomedical Research Unit, Barts Heart Centre, London, 
United Kingdom.
(5)National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research, University College 
London, London, United Kingdom.
(6)Department of Clinical Sciences, Danderyd Hospital, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(7)Farr Institute of Health Informatics Research, University College London, 
London, United Kingdom.
(8)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre, University College London Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust, University College London, London, United Kingdom.
(9)Centre for Cardiovascular Science, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United 
Kingdom.
(10)York Teaching Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, York, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: There is limited knowledge of the scale and impact of multimorbidity 
for patients who have had an acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Therefore, this 
study aimed to determine the extent to which multimorbidity is associated with 
long-term survival following AMI.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: This national observational study included 693,388 
patients (median age 70.7 years, 452,896 [65.5%] male) from the Myocardial 
Ischaemia National Audit Project (England and Wales) who were admitted with AMI 
between 1 January 2003 and 30 June 2013. There were 412,809 (59.5%) patients 
with multimorbidity at the time of admission with AMI, i.e., having at least 1 
of the following long-term health conditions: diabetes, chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease or asthma, heart failure, renal failure, cerebrovascular 
disease, peripheral vascular disease, or hypertension. Those with heart failure, 
renal failure, or cerebrovascular disease had the worst outcomes (39.5 [95% CI 
39.0-40.0], 38.2 [27.7-26.8], and 26.6 [25.2-26.4] deaths per 100 person-years, 
respectively). Latent class analysis revealed 3 multimorbidity phenotype 
clusters: (1) a high multimorbidity class, with concomitant heart failure, 
peripheral vascular disease, and hypertension, (2) a medium multimorbidity 
class, with peripheral vascular disease and hypertension, and (3) a low 
multimorbidity class. Patients in class 1 were less likely to receive 
pharmacological therapies compared with class 2 and 3 patients (including 
aspirin, 83.8% versus 87.3% and 87.2%, respectively; β-blockers, 74.0% versus 
80.9% and 81.4%; and statins, 80.6% versus 85.9% and 85.2%). Flexible parametric 
survival modelling indicated that patients in class 1 and class 2 had a 2.4-fold 
(95% CI 2.3-2.5) and 1.5-fold (95% CI 1.4-1.5) increased risk of death and a 
loss in life expectancy of 2.89 and 1.52 years, respectively, compared with 
those in class 3 over the 8.4-year follow-up period. The study was limited to 
all-cause mortality due to the lack of available cause-specific mortality data. 
However, we isolated the disease-specific association with mortality by 
providing the loss in life expectancy following AMI according to multimorbidity 
phenotype cluster compared with the general age-, sex-, and year-matched 
population.
CONCLUSIONS: Multimorbidity among patients with AMI was common, and conferred an 
accumulative increased risk of death. Three multimorbidity phenotype clusters 
that were significantly associated with loss in life expectancy were identified 
and should be a concomitant treatment target to improve cardiovascular outcomes.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03037255.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1002501
PMCID: PMC5839532
PMID: 29509764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I have read the journal's policy and the authors 
of this manuscript have the following competing interests to disclose: CPG has 
received speaker and consulting honoraria from AstraZeneca and Novartis. KAAF 
reports grants and personal fees from AstraZeneca, personal fees from 
Sanofi/Regeneron, grants and personal fees from Bayer/Janssen, personal fees 
from GSK, grants and personal fees from Lilly outside of the submitted work. MAM 
reports unrestricted educational grants for Terumo, Daiichi Sankyo, and personal 
fees from AstraZeneca, Cordis outside of submitted work. TJ has received speaker 
and consulting honoraria from AstraZeneca, MSD and Aspen. HH is a National 
Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Senior Investigator (grant 
NF-SI-0616-10066) and is funded by awards from the Medical Research Council, 
Arthritis Research UK, British Heart Foundation, Cancer Research UK, Chief 
Scientist Office, Economic and Social Research Council, Engineering and Physical 
Sciences Research Council, NIHR, National Institute for Social Care and Health 
Research, and Wellcome Trust (grant MR/K006584/1).


81. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2018 May 15;261:148-165. doi:
10.1016/j.ygcen.2018.03.003.  Epub 2018 Mar 3.

Diversification of the functions of proglucagon and glucagon receptor genes in 
fish.

Irwin DM(1), Mojsov S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, Banting and Best Diabetes 
Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ont M5S 1A8, Canada. Electronic address: 
david.irwin@utoronto.ca.
(2)The Rockefeller University, New York, NY 10065, United States.

The teleost fish-specific genome duplication gave rise to a great number of 
species inhabiting diverse environments with different access to nutrients and 
life histories. This event produced duplicated gcg genes, gcga and gcgb, for 
proglucagon-derived peptides, glucagon and GLP-1 and duplicated gcgr receptor 
genes, gcgra and gcgrb, which play key roles connecting the consumption of 
nutrients with glucose metabolism. We conducted a systematic survey of the 
genomes from 28 species of fish (24 bony (Superclass Osteichthyes), 1 
lobe-finned (Class Sarcoperygii), 1 cartilaginous (Superclass Chondrichthyes), 
and 2 jawless (Superclass Agnatha)) and find that almost all surveyed ray-finned 
fish contain gcga and gcgb genes with different coding potential and duplicated 
gcgr genes, gcgra and gcgrb that form two separate clades in the phylogenetic 
tree consistent with the accepted species phylogeny. All gcgb genes encoded only 
glucagon and GLP-1 and gcga genes encoded glucagon, GLP-1, and GLP-2, indicating 
that gcga was subfunctionalized to produce GLP-2. We find a single glp2r, but no 
glp1r suggesting that duplicated gcgrb was neofunctionalized to bind GLP-1, as 
demonstrated for the zebrafish gcgrb (Oren et al., 2016). In functional 
experiments with zebrafish gcgrb and GLP-1 from diverse fish we find that 
anglerfish GLP-1a, encoded by gcga, is less biologically active than the gcgb 
anglerfish GLP-1b paralog. But some other fish (zebrafish, salmon, and catfish) 
gcga GLP-1a display similar biological activities, indicating that the 
regulation of glucose metabolism by GLP-1 in ray-finned fish is 
species-specific. Searches of genomes in cartilaginous fish identified a 
proglucagon gene that encodes a novel GLP-3 peptide in addition to glucagon, 
GLP-1, and GLP-2, as well as a single gcgr, glp2r, and a new glucagon 
receptor-like receptor whose identity still needs to be confirmed. The sequence 
of the shark GLP-1 contained an N-terminal mammalian-like extension that in 
mammals undergoes a proteolytic cleavage to release biologically active GLP-1. 
Our results indicate that early in vertebrate evolution diverse regulatory 
mechanisms emerged for the control of glucose metabolism by proglucagon-derived 
peptides and their receptors and that in ray-finned fish they included 
subfunctionalization and neofunctionalization of these genes.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2018.03.003
PMID: 29510149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. BMC Cancer. 2018 Mar 6;18(1):257. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-4175-2.

Case report: 8 years after liver transplantation: de novo hepatocellular 
carcinoma 8 months after HCV clearance through IFN-free antiviral therapy.

Ramadori G(1), Bosio P(2), Moriconi F(3), Malik IA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Endocrinology, University Medical Center 
Goettingen, Robert-Koch-Street 40, D-37075, Goettingen, Germany. 
gramado@med.uni-goettingen.de.
(2)General Practitioner, National health care system, Palazzago, BG, Italy.
(3)Gastro-Centro, Via Trevano 38, 6900, Lugano, Switzerland.
(4)Institute of Anatomy and Cell Biology, University Medical Center, Kreuzbering 
36, 37075, Goettingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: After orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) for hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC), recurrent HCC mostly develops within 2 years. All cases of de 
novo HCC described so far occurred later than 2 years after OLT. Prevention of 
post-transplantation HCC has usually been tried to achieve by curing or 
controlling recurrent liver disease. This has been rationale for treatment with 
interferon (IFN)/ribavirin of HCV-recurrence in patients after OLT, transplanted 
for advanced HCV-induced liver disease and/or HCC. The availability of new and 
more efficient drugs has improved chances also for previously difficult-to-treat 
HCV-positive patients.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 75 year-old male patient who had undergone OLT for 
decompensated HCV-cirrhosis in 2009, and bilio-digestive surgery in 2011 under 
tracrolimus (0.5 mg/day) and prednisone (5 mg/day) immunosuppressive therapy, 
started to receive antiviral treatment for recurrent HCV-infection of graft with 
200 mg/day ribavirin in combination with ledipasvir and sofosbuvir by the end of 
October 2015. Because of multiple side effects (anemia, asthenia, infections, 
and reduction of kidney functions - palliated by treatment with erythropoietin), 
treatment was stopped after 16 weeks. At the third control, a minimal increase 
in alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) serum level to 10 μg/L was measured 8 months after 
therapy, whereas both liver sonography and serum transaminases were normal. The 
patient's general condition; however, remained poor, and a magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) of abdomen was performed 2 months later. A nodule of 3 cm in 
diameter with a pseudocapsule was found centrally in the liver. The patient had 
to be hospitalized for recurrent infections of the lung, overt ascites and 
peritonitis. Rapid tumor growth (10 cm) was detected during last stay in 
hospital (April 2017), concomitant with a rise of AFP-serum levels to 91 μg/L. 
The family decided to take the patient home, and best supportive care was 
provided by a general practitioner, local nurses and the patient's dedicated 
wife until his death.
CONCLUSION: Before treating OLT patients with HCV graft reinfection one should 
not only consider possible advantages of newly effective antiviral-therapies, 
but also life expectancy and possible side effects (difficult to manage at an 
outpatient service basis), including severe disadvantages such as the 
development of HCC.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-018-4175-2
PMCID: PMC5840818
PMID: 29510685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Written informed consent was obtained from 
the patient and his guardians for participation in the study design, data 
collection and treatment as well as publication. The case report was prepared 
according to CARE guidelines. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they 
have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral 
with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


83. Dan Med J. 2018 Mar;65(3):B5461.

von Hippel-Lindau disease: Diagnosis and factors influencing disease outcome.

Binderup MLM(1).

Author information:
(1)mlmb@sund.ku.dk.

von Hippel-Lindau disease (vHL) is a hereditary tumor predisposition caused by 
mutations in the VHL tumor suppressor gene. VHL mutation-carriers are at 
life-long risk of multi-organ tumor development. The mainstay of vHL management 
is close surveillance and surgical tumor removal. The disease has been reported 
to be fully penetrant at 60 years of age, and has a highly variable phenotype, 
which complicates vHL management and causes distress and uncertainty for 
affected families. vHL survival has historically been poorer than the survival 
of the general population, with a median life expectancy for vHL patients of 
only 49 years. vHL life expectancy is expected to be improved by better 
surveillance, tumor diagnosis, and treatment approaches, although this has 
not yet been directly demonstrated. The prevalence of vHL is between 1 in 39,000 
and 1 in 91,000 individuals, and the birth incidence is between 1 in 36,000 and 
1 in 45,500 live births in different populations. Based on these estimates, vHL 
is underdiagnosed in Denmark, and many undiagnosed families are not offered 
genetic counseling or prophylactic surveillance. We aimed to assess 1) how the 
rate of new manifestation development is influenced by age, sex, genotype, tumor 
location, and pregnancy, 2) how vHL survival has developed over time, and is 
affected by sex, genotype, and surveillance attendance, 3) to determine the 
prevalence and incidence of vHL, and 4) to calculate vHL penetrance based on an 
unselected national cohort.  We included almost all diagnosed vHL patients in 
Denmark in a retrospective cohort study. We further used the national health 
registers to find individuals who had a missed vHL diagnosis despite fulfilling 
the clinical diagnostic criteria. We found that the risk of new vHL 
manifestations varies with age, genotype, and tumor location. The risk of new 
retinal tumors is highest in the patients' teenage years, while cerebellar 
tumors developed at the highest rates in patients' thirties. Patients with 
truncating mutations had higher rates of new manifestation diagnosis than 
patients with missense mutations. Men tend to have higher manifestation rates in 
adulthood compared to women, and pregnancy was associated with a lower frequency 
of new manifestations. vHL survival has improved over time, and is getting 
closer to that of their siblings without vHL and the general population. 
Survival is significantly influenced by a patient's birth year, sex, and 
genotype. We estimate the mean life expectancy of VHL mutation-carriers born in 
2000 to be 67 years for men and 60 years for women. We estimate the vHL 
prevalence to be about 1 in 46,900 individuals and the birth incidence to be 
about 1 in 27,300 live births. We found a penetrance at age 60 of 87%, and only 
80% among pa-tients who have not attended surveillance prior to diagnosis, which 
is considerably lower than previous estimates.  Our findings form the basis of a 
more targeted vHL surveillance and counseling. The lower age-related penetrance 
greatly influences risk assessment in a clinical genetic setting. Even though 
the prevalence has increased over recent years, vHL is still underdiagnosed, and 
there is a need for increased awareness about the disease.

Articles published in the Danish Medical Journal are “open access”. This means 
that the articles are distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons 
Attribution Non-commercial License, which permits any non-commercial use, 
distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author(s) 
and source are credited.

PMID: 29510814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Mar 20;115(12):E2791-E2800. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1714178115. Epub 2018 Mar 6.

Metabolic shift from glycogen to trehalose promotes lifespan and healthspan in 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Seo Y(1), Kingsley S(1), Walker G(1), Mondoux MA(2), Tissenbaum HA(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular, Cell and Cancer Biology, University of Massachusetts 
Medical School (UMMS), Worcester, MA 01605.
(2)Department of Biology, College of the Holy Cross, Worcester, MA 01610.
(3)Department of Molecular, Cell and Cancer Biology, University of Massachusetts 
Medical School (UMMS), Worcester, MA 01605; heidi.tissenbaum@umassmed.edu.
(4)Program in Molecular Medicine, UMMS, Worcester, MA 01605.

As Western diets continue to include an ever-increasing amount of sugar, there 
has been a rise in obesity and type 2 diabetes. To avoid metabolic diseases, the 
body must maintain proper metabolism, even on a high-sugar diet. In both humans 
and Caenorhabditis elegans, excess sugar (glucose) is stored as glycogen. Here, 
we find that animals increased stored glycogen as they aged, whereas even young 
adult animals had increased stored glycogen on a high-sugar diet. Decreasing the 
amount of glycogen storage by modulating the C. elegans glycogen synthase, 
gsy-1, a key enzyme in glycogen synthesis, can extend lifespan, prolong 
healthspan, and limit the detrimental effects of a high-sugar diet. Importantly, 
limiting glycogen storage leads to a metabolic shift whereby glucose is now 
stored as trehalose. Two additional means to increase trehalose show similar 
longevity extension. Increased trehalose is entirely dependent on a functional 
FOXO transcription factor DAF-16 and autophagy to promote lifespan and 
healthspan extension. Our results reveal that when glucose is stored as 
glycogen, it is detrimental, whereas, when stored as trehalose, animals live a 
longer, healthier life if DAF-16 is functional. Taken together, these results 
demonstrate that trehalose modulation may be an avenue for combatting 
high-sugar-diet pathology.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1714178115
PMCID: PMC5866546
PMID: 29511104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


85. Ther Adv Neurol Disord. 2018 Feb 26;11:1756286418759315. doi: 
10.1177/1756286418759315. eCollection 2018.

Safety and efficacy of levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel: results from an 
open-label extension study in Japanese, Korean and Taiwanese patients with 
advanced Parkinson's disease.

Murata M(1), Mihara M(2), Hasegawa K(3), Jeon B(4), Tsai CH(5), Nishikawa N(6), 
Oeda T(7), Yokoyama M(8), Robieson WZ(9), Chatamra K(9), Facheris MF(9), Benesh 
J(9).

Author information:
(1)National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira 
187-8551, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Suita, Japan.
(3)National Hospital Organization Sagamihara National Hospital, Sagamihara, 
Japan.
(4)Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Neurology, China Medical University Hospital Medical College, 
China Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(6)Ehime University Hospital, Matsuyama, Japan.
(7)National Hospital Organization Utano Hospital, Kyoto, Japan.
(8)AbbVie Inc., Tokyo, Japan.
(9)AbbVie Inc., North Chicago, Illinois, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel (LCIG) was developed to reduce 
motor complications in Parkinson's disease (PD) caused by pulsatile levodopa 
plasma concentrations following oral levodopa administration. Dyskinesia and 
'wearing off' symptoms can vary between Asian and Caucasian patients with PD, 
thus highlighting the importance of assessing the effectiveness of LCIG in an 
Asian population. Efficacy and safety of LCIG were previously assessed in a 
12-week open-label study; we report the efficacy and safety of at least 52 weeks 
of LCIG treatment in Japanese, Taiwanese, and Korean patients with advanced PD 
in the ongoing extension study.
METHODS: In this interim analysis of a phase III, open-label, multicenter 
extension study in Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan [ClinicalTrials.gov 
identifier: NCT02082249/JapiCTI-142482], the mean change from baseline to final 
visit in 'off' time, as reported in the PD symptom diary, was normalized to a 
16-h waking day. Changes in Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire-39 (PDQ-39) 
summary index and domains scores were also analyzed. Adverse events (AEs) were 
recorded.
RESULTS: Of the 28 patients enrolled (21 Japanese, 3 Taiwanese, 4 Korean), 27 
completed at least 52 total weeks of treatment, and 25 patients were continuing 
in the study at data cutoff. The mean [standard deviation (SD)] 'off' time was 
significantly reduced by 4.6 (3.1) h/day (p < 0.001, n = 28). Patients 
experienced significant improvements in quality of life, as recorded by the mean 
change from baseline in PDQ-39 summary index (p < 0.001). All patients had at 
least one AE; three patients (11%) discontinued due to an AE. There were two 
deaths (sepsis and drowning), both of which the investigator considered 
unrelated to LCIG treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that LCIG treatment is efficacious, safe, and 
well tolerated in Japanese, Taiwanese, and Korean patients with advanced PD, 
thus confirming the consistency of LCIG treatment in patients with advanced PD.

DOI: 10.1177/1756286418759315
PMCID: PMC5833238
PMID: 29511383

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: The authors 
declare the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship and/or publication of this article: Miho Murata, Masahito 
Mihara, Kazuko Hasegawa, Chon-Haw Tsai, Noriko Nishikawa and Tomoko Oeda were 
study investigators and received research support from AbbVie, Inc. Beomseok 
Jeon was a study investigator and received research support from the Ministry of 
Health and Welfare, Seoul National University Hospital, Sinyang Cultural 
Foundation, Song Foundation, Korean Movement Disorder Society, Samil 
Pharmaceuticals, AbbVie Korea, UCB Korea, Ipsen Korea, Sandoz Korea, Lundbeck 
Korea, and Novartis Korea; travel support from Korea Research-Based 
Pharmaceutical Industry Association, Korean Pharmaceutical Manufacturers 
Association, Seoul National University, Seoul National University Hospital; and 
compensation from Lundbeck Korea for consulting and Ipsen and UCB for speaking. 
Masayuki Yokoyama, Weining Robieson, Maurizio Facheris, and Janet Benesh are 
employees of AbbVie, Inc., and may hold stock or stock options. Krai Chatamra 
was an employee of AbbVie at the time of the study; he is currently employed at 
Lundbeck.


86. Can J Kidney Health Dis. 2018 Feb 28;5:2054358118759675. doi: 
10.1177/2054358118759675. eCollection 2018.

Vascular Access Practice Patterns in Canada: A National Survey.

Dumaine C(1), Kiaii M(2), Miller L(3), Moist L(4), Oliver MJ(5), Lok CE(6), 
Hiremath S(7), MacRae JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, 
Alberta, Canada.
(2)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(3)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University of Manitoba, 
Winnipeg, Canada.
(4)Division of Nephrology, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, Department 
of Medicine, Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Faculty of Medicine, University Health Network, University of Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(7)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University of Ottawa, 
Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: One of the mandates of the Canadian Society of Nephrology's (CSN) 
Vascular Access Working Group (VAWG) is to inform the nephrology community of 
the current status of vascular access (VA) practice within Canada. To better 
understand VA practice patterns across Canada, the CSN VAWG conducted a national 
survey.
OBJECTIVES: (1) To inform on VA practice patterns, including fistula creation 
and maintenance, within Canada. (2) To determine the degree of consensus among 
Canadian clinicians regarding patient suitability for fistula creation and to 
assess barriers to and facilitators of fistula creation in Canada.
DESIGN: Development and implementation of a survey.
SETTING: Community and academic VA programs.
PARTICIPANTS: Nephrologists, surgeons, and nurses who are involved in VA 
programs across Canada.
MEASUREMENTS: Practice patterns regarding access creation and maintenance, 
including indications and contraindications to fistula creation, as well as 
program-wide facilitators of and barriers to VA.
METHODS: A small group of CSN VAWG members determined the scope and created 
several VA questions which were then reviewed by 5 additional VAWG members (4 
nephrologists and 1 VA nurse) to ensure that questions were clear and relevant. 
The survey was then tested by the remaining members of the VAWG and refinements 
were made. The final survey version was submitted electronically to relevant 
clinicians (nephrologists, surgeons, and nurses) involved or interested in VA 
across Canada. Questions centered around 4 major themes: (1) Practice patterns 
regarding access creation (preoperative assessment and maturation assessment), 
(2) Practice patterns regarding access maintenance (surveillance and salvage), 
(3) Indications and contraindications for arteriovenous (AV) access creation, 
and (4) Facilitators of and barriers to fistula creation and utilization.
RESULTS: Eighty-two percent (84 of 102) of invited participants completed the 
survey; the majority were nurses or VA coordinators (55%) with the remainder 
consisting of nephrologists (21%) and surgeons (20%). Variation in practice was 
noted in utility of preoperative Doppler ultrasound, interventions to assist 
nonmaturing fistulas, and procedures to salvage failing or thrombosed AV-access. 
Little consensus was seen regarding potential contraindications to AV-access 
creation (with the exception of limited life expectancy and poor vasculature on 
preoperative imaging, which had high agreement). Frequent barriers to fistula 
utilization were primary failure (77% of respondents) and long maturation times 
(73%). Respondents from centers with low fistula prevalence also cited long 
surgical wait times as an important barrier to fistula creation, whereas those 
from centers with high fistula prevalence cited access to multidisciplinary 
teams and interventional radiology as keys to successful fistula creation and 
utilization.
CONCLUSIONS: There is significant variation in VA practice across Canada and 
little consensus among Canadian clinicians regarding contraindications to 
fistula creation. Further high-quality studies are needed with regard to 
appropriate fistula placement to help guide clinical practice.

Publisher: CONTEXTE: L’un des mandats du Groupe de travail en accès vasculaire 
(GTAV) de la Société canadienne de néphrologie consiste à informer la communauté 
en néphrologie des schémas de pratique actuels en accès vasculaire au Canada. Le 
GTAV a mené un sondage pancanadien pour mieux comprendre les schémas de pratique 
existants au pays en matière d’accès vasculaire.
OBJECTIFS: (1) Informer la communauté des schémas de pratique canadiens 
(notamment en ce qui a trait à la création et au maintien fistulaire). (2) 
Déterminer le niveau de consensus parmi les cliniciens canadiens concernant 
l’admissibilité d’un patient à la création d’une fistule et les facteurs 
facilitant ou entravant la procédure.
TYPE D’ÉTUDE: Il s’agit de la conception et de la réalisation d’un sondage.
CADRE DE L’ÉTUDE: Programmes d’accès vasculaire en milieu universitaire ou 
communautaire.
PARTICIPANTS: Ont été invités à participer néphrologues, chirurgiens et membres 
du personnel infirmier intervenant dans un programme d’accès vasculaire 
canadien.
MESURES: Nous avons sondé les participants à propos de leur schéma de pratique 
concernant la création et l’entretien fistulaire, notamment les indications et 
contre-indications à la création d’une fistule, ainsi que des facteurs 
facilitant ou entravant la procédure dans leur milieu de pratique.
MÉTHODOLOGIE: Quelques membres du GTAV ont défini le cadre du sondage et ont 
rédigé une série de questions. Cinq autres membres du GTAV (quatre néphrologues 
et un membre du personnel infirmier en accès vasculaire) ont ensuite validé la 
clarté et la pertinence des questions soumises. Finalement, le sondage a été 
testé auprès des autres membres du GTAV pour y apporter des ajustements. La 
version définitive du sondage a été envoyée électroniquement à des cliniciens 
(néphrologues, chirurgiens et membres du personnel infirmier) canadiens 
intervenant en accès vasculaire ou qui s’y intéressent. Les questions abordaient 
quatre thèmes : i) les schémas de pratique en création fistulaire (évaluation 
préopératoire, évaluation de la maturation fistulaire); ii) les schémas de 
pratique en entretien fistulaire (surveillance et rétablissement de l’accès 
vasculaire); iii) les indications et contre-indications à la création d’une 
fistule artérioveineuse; iv) les facteurs facilitant et entravant la création 
fistulaire et son utilisation.
RÉSULTATS: Des 102 personnes invitées à participer au sondage, 84 (82 %) ont 
répondu au questionnaire. La majorité (55 %) était constituée de membres du 
personnel infirmier et de coordonnateurs en accès vasculaire. La différence se 
composait essentiellement de néphrologues (21 %) et de chirurgiens (20 %). On a 
noté une variabilité des habitudes de pratique quant au recours à une 
échographie Doppler en préopératoire, aux interventions en cas de fistules non 
formées et aux procédures de rétablissement d’un accès artériovasculaire 
défaillant ou thrombosé. Il n’existe pas de consensus sur les éventuelles 
contre-indications à la création d’un accès artériovasculaire, à l’exception de 
deux points : une espérance de vie limitée et une structure vasculaire faible 
(révélée par imagerie préopératoire). La défaillance primitive et un long délai 
de maturation ont été cernés comme obstacles au recours à la fistule par une 
majorité de répondants (77 % et 73 %, respectivement). Les répondants de centres 
où l’on pratique peu d’interventions fistulaires ont mentionné les longs délais 
d’attente préopératoire comme entrave; les répondants de centres où l’on 
pratique fréquemment l’intervention fistulaire ont quant à eux souligné deux 
facteurs facilitant la création fistulaire et son utilisation : l’accès à des 
équipes multidisciplinaires et à la radiologie interventionnelle.
CONCLUSION: Au Canada, les schémas de pratique clinique en accès vasculaire 
varient fortement, et les indications et contre-indications à la création 
fistulaire ne font pas consensus au sein des cliniciens. D’autres études 
rigoureuses sur les conditions adéquates pour la pratique d’une intervention 
fistulaire sont nécessaires afin d’orienter la pratique clinique.

DOI: 10.1177/2054358118759675
PMCID: PMC5833215
PMID: 29511569

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


87. Demography. 2018 Apr;55(2):387-402. doi: 10.1007/s13524-017-0644-5.

Is 60 the New 50? Examining Changes in Biological Age Over the Past Two Decades.

Levine ME(1), Crimmins EM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, 06510, USA. 
morgan.levine@yale.edu.
(2)Davis School of Gerontology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
CA, 90089, USA.

Increasing life expectancy has been interpreted as improving health of a 
population. However, mortality is not always a reliable proxy for the pace of 
aging and could instead reflect achievement in keeping ailing people alive. 
Using data from NHANES III (1988-1994) and NHANES IV (2007-2010), we examined 
how biological age, relative to chronological age, changed in the United States 
between 1988 and 2010, while estimating the contribution of changes in 
modifiable health behaviors. Results suggest that biological age is lower for 
more recent periods; however, the degree of improvement varied across age and 
sex groups. Overall, older adults experienced the greatest improvement or 
decreases in biological age. Males, especially those in the youngest and oldest 
groups, experienced greater declines in biological age than females. These 
differences were partially explained by age- and sex-specific changes in 
behaviors, such as smoking, obesity, and medication use. Slowing the pace of 
aging, along with increasing life expectancy, has important social and economic 
implications; thus, identifying modifiable risk factors that contribute to 
cohort differences in health and aging is essential.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-017-0644-5
PMCID: PMC5897168
PMID: 29511995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Med Sci Monit. 2018 Mar 7;24:1387-1396. doi: 10.12659/msm.904845.

Analysis of Chronic Illnesses and Disability in a Community-Based Sample of 
Elderly People in South-Eastern Poland.

Ćwirlej-Sozańska A(1), Wilmowska-Pietruszyńska A(1), Sozański B(2), 
Wiśniowska-Szurlej A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Physiotherapy, Medical Faculty, University of Rzeszów, Rzeszów, 
Poland.
(2)Centre for Innovative Research in Medical and Natural Sciences, Medical 
Faculty, University of Rzeszów, Rzeszów, Poland.

BACKGROUND The proportion of elderly people living in Poland has risen in recent 
years. With rising life expectancy, there is likely to be a concurrent increase 
in the incidence of chronic diseases and disabilities. Therefore, this study 
aimed to analyze the prevalence of chronic diseases and disability of the 
elderly in order to help guide strategies of prevention and public health 
control. MATERIAL AND METHODS This was a cross-sectional study of 1,000 
randomly-selected residents living in the Podkarpackie region of Poland. The 
WHODAS 2.0 questionnaire was used to assess the disability and functioning of 
the participants across six domains of functioning using the following scores: 
no disability (0-4%), mild disability (5-24%), moderate disability (25-49%), 
severe disability (50-95%), and extreme disability (96-100%). RESULTS The 
presence of at least one chronic disease was identified in 84.1% of 
participants. The most common diseases were: circulatory diseases (59.10%), 
spinal pain syndromes (51.50%), degenerative joint diseases (50.30%), and 
rheumatic diseases (23.90%). Severe or extreme disability was found in 8.46% of 
patients with circulatory disease, 9.32% of patients with spinal pain syndromes, 
9.34% of patients with degenerative joint diseases, and 12.13% of patients with 
rheumatic diseases. CONCLUSIONS Based on our findings, we recommend an emphasis 
be placed on early diagnosis of chronic diseases. We also recommend implementing 
methods of primary and secondary prevention aimed at reducing or eliminating 
disability resulting from chronic diseases. Our research highlights the need to 
plan targeted support and prevention programs using strategies that optimize 
social participation of older people with various chronic diseases.

DOI: 10.12659/msm.904845
PMCID: PMC5854107
PMID: 29512628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interests None.


89. Mol Med Rep. 2018 May;17(5):6681-6690. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2018.8657. Epub 2018
Mar  1.

Upregulation of SIRT1 inhibits H2O2‑induced osteoblast apoptosis via 
FoxO1/β‑catenin pathway.

Yao H(1), Yao Z(2), Zhang S(3), Zhang W(4), Zhou W(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Kunming Medical 
University, Kunming, Yunnan 650000, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic, Xinchang Hospital Affiliated to Wenzhou Medical 
University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 312500, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Orthopaedic, Changhai Hospital Affiliated to Second Military 
Medical University, Shanghai 200433, P.R. China.
(4)Department of Orthopaedic, Qingpu People's Hospital of Zhujiajue, Shanghai 
201713, P.R. China.
(5)Department of Sports Science, Shanghai University of Sports, Shanghai 200433, 
P.R. China.

Osteoporosis is a disease that significantly influences life expectancy and 
quality in humans. Oxidative stress may stimulate bone marrow osteoclast 
differentiation and inhibit osteoblast (OB) differentiation. OB proliferation 
and differentiation are affected by the forkhead box O (FoxO)1/β‑catenin 
signaling pathway. The osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells 
(MSCs) may be promoted by silent information regulator type‑1 [sirtuin (SIRT)1]. 
However, the molecular mechanism of SIRT1 regulation of osteogenic 
differentiation of MSCs remains unclear, and further elucidation is needed. The 
present study investigated the role of SIRT1 in the FoxO1/β‑catenin signaling 
pathway in oxidative stress and its mechanism in the osteoblastic progenitor 
cell line (MC3T3‑E1). The results demonstrated that OB apoptosis and elevated 
oxidative stress in cells were simulated by H2O2, which was inhibited by 
moderate SIRT1 overexpression through reducing the oxidative stress. Further 
studies revealed that FOXO1 and β‑catenin pathway activity was downregulated by 
SIRT1 and eventually resulted in inhibition of target genes, including the 
proapoptotic gene B cell lymphoma‑2 interacting mediator of cell death, DNA 
repair gene growth arrest and DNA damage inducible protein 45 and the OB 
differentiation suppressor gene peroxisome proliferator activated receptor 
(PPAR)‑γ. Furthermore, β‑catenin and PPAR‑γ were inhibited by SIRT1. Overall, 
the results of the present study suggest that moderate overexpression of SIRT1 
(~3‑fold of normal level) may directly or indirectly inhibit apoptosis of OBs 
via the FOXO1 and β‑catenin signaling pathway.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2018.8657
PMID: 29512706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Pol Przegl Chir. 2018 Feb 28;90(1):18-24. doi: 10.5604/01.3001.0011.5955.

Can the surgeon live his whole life? Analysis of the risk of death related to 
the profession.

Mitura K(1), Kozieł S(2), Komor K(3).

Author information:
(1)General Surgery Department, Siedlce Hospital, Poland.
(2)General and Oncological Surgery Department, Beskid Center of Oncology - 
Municipal Hospital in Bielsko Biala, Poland.
(3)Cardiology and Cardiooncology Department, Beskid Center of Oncology - 
Municipal Hospital in Bielsko Biala, Poland.

More than half of physicians in Poland are over 50 years old. This raises 
concerns about the risk of lack of continuity of health care services due to the 
generational gap, particularly marked among interventional specialties. The 
physical and mental burden of general surgery affects those doctors in 
particular. The aim of the study is to assess whether the type of the profession 
pursued influences the average lifetime of a physician in Poland and the impact 
of the surgeon's occupation on life expectancy compared to the rest of the 
population according to gender. Demographic data was obtained from official 
publications of the Central Statistical Office. Data on 189,459 physicians in 
Poland were obtained from the Central Register of Doctors. A total of 6,496 
physicians and dentists deaths in the period from January 1st, 2010 to June 
30th, 2014, including 722 surgeons, were analyzed. In general, both male 
physicians and dentists died at an older age than the mean population (74.9 
years and 74.7 years vs. 68.9 years; p &lt;0.05). Among women, only dentists 
lived longer (78.5 years) p &lt;0.05), while women physicians died at a younger 
age than the average in the general population (76.4 vs. 77.2 years; p 
&lt;0.05). The average lifetime of both male and female surgeons was 74.2 and 
77.5 years, respectively. The average life expectancy of people aged 25 years 
with college/university education is 80.3 years for men and 86.6 years for 
women. Male surgeons live significantly longer than the average life expectancy 
in the general population of men. The average length of life of women surgeons 
is significantly lower than the average lifespan of women in the general 
population. The actual lifetime of surgeons in Poland is significantly lower 
than the expected average life expectancy for other people aged 25 with tertiary 
education. The average lifespan of surgeons in Poland does not differ 
significantly from the average life expectancy of other Polish physicians.

DOI: 10.5604/01.3001.0011.5955
PMID: 29513246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. PLoS One. 2018 Mar 7;13(3):e0192758. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0192758. 
eCollection 2018.

Why do open-label placebos work? A randomized controlled trial of an open-label 
placebo induction with and without extended information about the placebo effect 
in allergic rhinitis.

Schaefer M(1), Sahin T(1), Berstecher B(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical School Berlin, Calandrellistr, Berlin, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Several studies demonstrated that placebo treatment may have a 
significant impact on many different symptoms. While in the traditional view 
concealment of the placebo is essential, recent studies report intriguing 
evidence that placebos may work even without deception. For example, it has been 
demonstrated that open-label placebos can improve symptoms in allergic rhinitis. 
However, the mechanisms of how placebos without concealment work remain unknown.
TRIAL DESIGN: In order to examine expectancy effects we conducted a randomized 
controlled trial (N = 46), in which patients with allergic symptoms received 
either placebos without deception or no pills at all. In half of those patients 
we induced positive expectations about the placebo effect. After two weeks we 
tested whether symptoms and quality of life had changed.
RESULTS: Results revealed that open-label placebos improved allergic symptoms 
more than the control group. Inducing positive expectations had no effects on 
the improvement of allergic symptoms (the primary and more objective outcome), 
but on mental sum scores of the quality of life questionnaire.
CONCLUSIONS: Placebos without deception can improve symptoms in allergic 
rhinitis. Positive expectations do not contribute to the efficacy of open-label 
placebos, but seem to have an effect on more global and subjective well-being 
(mental or emotional quality of life).
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: German Clinical Trials Register, 
DRKS00012303.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0192758
PMCID: PMC5841659
PMID: 29513699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


92. Can J Cardiovasc Nurs. 2016 Sep;26(3):11-17.

Easing the Economic Burden of Atrial Fibrillation: Making the Case for a 
Structured Clinical Nurse Specialist-Led Outpatient Clinic.

Minakakis T.

As the life expectancy of Canadians continues to increase, so does the economic 
burden of chronic conditions within the health care system. One chronic 
condition that has increased over the past decade is atrialfibrillation (AF). 
With health care costs forAF estimated at more than $800 million and rising, a 
new approach is needed to manage AF care to reduce hospitalizations and 
emergency room visits, while improving patients' quality of life. 
Multidisciplinary outpatient clinics for heart failure patients have been 
implemented across Canada over the past decade, and have shown a reduction in 
hospital admissions and emergency room visits. It is probable that the same 
benefit could be seen with the implementation of a structured, nurse-led 
outpatient AF clinic. The purpose of this article is to review the existing 
literature on AF outpatient management, and establish the best approachfor a 
clinical nurse specialist-led AF outpatient clinic within the Canadian health 
care system.

PMID: 29513940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Aging (Albany NY). 2018 Mar 3;10(3):293-294. doi: 10.18632/aging.101396.

Hormone actions controlling sex-specific life-extension.

Garratt M(1), Stout MB(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI 
48109, USA.
(2)Department of Nutritional Sciences, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences 
Center, Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA.
(3)Reynolds Oklahoma Center on Aging, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences 
Center, Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA.
(4)Harold Hamm Diabetes Center, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, 
Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.101396
PMCID: PMC5892689
PMID: 29514132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Eur J Public Health. 2018 Oct 1;28(5):967-972. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/cky023.

A socioecological measurement of homophobia for all countries and its public 
health impact.

Lamontagne E(1)(2), d'Elbée M(3), Ross MW(4), Carroll A(5), Plessis AD(5), 
Loures L(1).

Author information:
(1)UNAIDS, Geneva, Switzerland.
(2)Aix-Marseille School of Economics, Marseille cedex 2, France.
(3)Department of Global Health and Development, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(4)Department of Family Medicine and Community Health, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(5)The International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association 
(ILGA), Geneva, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Measuring homophobia at country level is important to guide public 
health policy as reductions in stigma are associated with improved health 
outcomes among gay men and other men who have sex with men. Methods: We 
developed a Homophobic Climate Index incorporating institutional and social 
components of homophobia. Institutional homophobia was based on the level of 
enforcement of laws that criminalise, protect or recognise same-sex relations. 
Social homophobia was based on the level of acceptance and justifiability of 
homosexuality. We estimated the Index for 158 countries and assessed its 
robustness and validity.
RESULTS: Western Europe is the most inclusive region, followed by Latin America. 
Africa and the Middle East are home to the most homophobic countries with two 
exceptions: South Africa and Cabo Verde. We found that a 1% decrease in the 
level of homophobia is associated with a 10% increase in the gross domestic 
product per capita. Countries whose citizens face gender inequality, human 
rights abuses, low health expenditures and low life satisfaction are the ones 
with a higher homophobic climate. Moreover, a 10% increase in the level of 
homophobia at country level is associated with a 1.7-year loss in life 
expectancy for males. A higher level of homophobia is associated with increased 
AIDS-related death among HIV-positive men.
CONCLUSION: The socioecological approach of this index demonstrates the negative 
social, economic and health consequences of homophobia in low- and middle-income 
countries. It provides sound evidence for public health policy in favour of the 
inclusion of sexual minorities.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/cky023
PMID: 29514190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2018 Jul;33(7):926-933. doi: 10.1002/gps.4873. Epub
 2018 Mar 7.

Relationships between socio-clinico-demographic factors and global cognitive 
function in the oldest old living in the Tokyo Metropolitan area: Reanalysis of 
the Tokyo Oldest Old Survey on Total Health (TOOTH).

Eguchi Y(1), Tasato K(1), Nakajima S(1)(2), Noda Y(1), Tsugawa S(3), Shinagawa 
S(4), Niimura H(1), Hirose N(5), Arai Y(5), Mimura M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(2)Multimodal Imaging Group, Research Imaging Centre, Centre for Addiction and 
Mental Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(3)Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, The Jikei University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(5)Center for Supercentenarian Medical Research, Keio University School of 
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Despite a steady increase in life expectancy, a few studies have 
investigated cross-sectional correlates and longitudinal predictors of cognitive 
function, a core domain of the successful aging, among socio-clinico-demographic 
factors in the oldest-old exclusively.
OBJECTIVES: The aims of this study were to examine socio-clinico-demographic 
characteristics associated with global cognition and its changes in the 
oldest-old.
METHODS: We reanalyzed a dataset of cognitively preserved community-dwelling 
subjects aged 85 years and older in the Tokyo Oldest Old Survey on Total Health, 
a 6-year longitudinal observational study. This study consisted of (1) baseline 
cross-sectional analyses examining correlates of global cognition (n = 248) 
among socio-clinico-demographic factors and (2) longitudinal analyses examining 
baseline predictors for changes of global cognition in 3-year follow-up 
(n = 195). The Mini-Mental State Examination was used as a screening test to 
assess global cognition.
RESULTS: At baseline, higher weights were related to higher cognitive function 
in the oldest-old. The baseline predictors of global cognitive decline in 3-year 
follow-up were higher global cognition, shorter education period, and lower 
sociocultural activities and lower instrumental activity of daily living, in 
this order.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study suggests that it is crucial to attain higher 
education during early life and avoid leanness or obesity, participate in 
sociocultural cognitive activities during late life, and maintain instrumental 
activity of daily living to preserve optimal cognitive function in the 
oldest-old, which will facilitate developing prevention strategies for cognitive 
decline and promoting successful aging in this increasing population.

Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.4873
PMID: 29514399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 2018 Oct;35(10):1287-1291. doi: 
10.1177/1049909118763592. Epub 2018 Mar 7.

Comparative Analysis of the Views of Oncologic Subspecialists and 
Palliative/Supportive Care Physicians Regarding Advanced Care Planning and 
End-of-Life Care.

Pifer PM(1), Farrugia MK(1), Mattes MD(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Radiation Oncology, West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Early palliative/supportive care (PSC) consultation and advance care 
planning (ACP) improve outcomes for patients with incurable cancer. However, PSC 
is underutilized in the United States.
OBJECTIVE: To examine philosophical differences among PSC, radiation oncology 
(RO), and medical oncology (MO) physicians in order to understand barriers to 
early PSC referral.
DESIGN: An electronic survey collected views of a nationwide cohort of 
health-care professionals regarding ACP and end-of-life care. 
Setting/Participants/Measurements: A subgroup analysis compared the responses 
from all 51 PSC, 178 RO, and 81 MO physician participants (12% response rate), 
using Pearson χ2 and Mann-Whitney U tests for categorical and ordinal data, 
respectively.
RESULTS: More statistically significant differences were observed between RO-PSC 
(12 questions) and MO-PSC (12 questions) than RO-MO (4 questions). Both RO and 
MO were more likely than PSC physicians to believe doctors adequately care for 
emotional ( P < .001) and physical ( P < .001) needs of patients with an 
incurable illness. Both RO and MO were also less likely to believe that PSC 
physicians were helpful at addressing these needs ( P = .002 and <.001, 
respectively) or that patients' awareness of their life expectancy leads to 
better medical ( P = .007 and .002, respectively) and personal ( P = .001 for 
each) decisions. Palliative/supportive care physicians felt that doctors are 
generally less successful at explaining/clarifying advanced life-sustaining 
treatments than RO ( P < .001) or MO ( P = .004). MO favored later initiation of 
ACP than either RO ( P = .006) or PSC physicians ( P = .004).
CONCLUSIONS: Differences in perception of appropriate end-of-life care exist 
between oncologists and PSC physicians, suggesting a need for improved education 
and communication between these groups.

DOI: 10.1177/1049909118763592
PMCID: PMC6026573
PMID: 29514487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests The authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


97. Cogn Emot. 2019 Mar;33(2):213-230. doi: 10.1080/02699931.2018.1446414. Epub
2018  Mar 7.

Emotion regulation in social anxiety: a systematic investigation and 
meta-analysis using self-report, subjective, and event-related 
potentials measures.

Kivity Y(1), Huppert JD(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , The Hebrew University of Jerusalem , Jerusalem , 
Israel.
