METHODS: Health systems and health policies are placing increased emphasis on 
services targeted at improving functioning, and not only at decreasing morbidity 
and mortality. According to WHO, rehabilitation could be an answer to this need. 
Cochrane's strategy becomes significant in this context, as it is based on the 
production of high-quality evidence through systematic reviews to inform health 
decision making.
RESULTS: Cochrane Rehabilitation is the appropriate instrument in this 
endeavour: its main goal is to convey to all rehabilitation professionals the 
best available evidence, but also to improve the Cochrane methods for evidence 
synthesis. This will help rehabilitation professionals to make decisions 
according to the best and most appropriate evidence.
CONCLUSION: An important challenge of Cochrane Rehabilitation in the next future 
is to respond to the WHO "Rehabilitation 2030" call for action.

DOI: 10.1701/2865.28914
PMID: 29493645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Sickle Cell Disease.

Sedrak A, Kondamudi NP(1).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Aug 28.

Author information:
(1)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai , The Brooklyn Hospital Center

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a multisystem disorder and the most common genetic 
disease in the United States, affecting 1 in 500 African Americans. About 1 in 
12 African Americans carry the autosomal recessive mutation, and approximately 
300,000 infants are born with sickle cell anemia annually. The understanding of 
the phenotypic expression of the disease is still limited. However, 
environmental factors such as cold weather and air quality, infections, fetal 
hemoglobin level, and other genetic subtypes play a role in the manifestation of 
the disease. Clinical manifestations are variable and affect multiple systems, 
and generally cause lower life expectancy.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 29494006

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Aziza Sedrak declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Noah Kondamudi 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


23. Patellar Instability.

Wolfe S(1), Varacallo M(2), Thomas JD, Carroll JJ(3), Kahwaji CI(4).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Sep 4.

Author information:
(1)Kaweah Delta Graduate Medical Education
(2)Penn Highlands Healthcare System
(3)Michigan State University/McLaren Macomb Hospital
(4)Universtity of California, Irvine

Patellar instability, by definition, is a condition where the patella bone 
pathologically disarticulates out from the patellofemoral joint, either 
subluxation or complete dislocation. This most often involves multiple factors, 
from acute trauma, chronic ligamentous laxity, bony malalignment, connective 
tissue disorder, or anatomical pathology. Over time, patients with patellar 
instability can have debilitating pain, limitations in basic function, and 
long-term arthritis. Epidemiology Patella dislocations account for 3% of all 
knee injuries. The majority of injuries and pathology occurs in young 
individuals. In particular, most patients with patellar instability are aged 
10 to 16 years old and female. The incidence of patellar instability in the 
general population is 5.8 per 100,000 and 29 per 100,000 in the 10 to 
17-year-old age group. Many cases of first-time dislocations without loose 
bodies or articular damage are treated conservatively. However, the recurrence 
rate after conservative treatment can be up to 15 to 44%. Patients with a 
history of two or more dislocations have a 50% chance of recurrent dislocation 
episodes. A previous patellar dislocation is associated with the highest risk of 
persistent patellar instability later in life. Furthermore, in patients with a 
known medial patellofemoral ligament (MPFL) injury confirmed on MRI, the 
recurrence rates are even higher. With these recurrence rates, first-time 
dislocators can continue to have pain, functional limitations, and instability.  
Patellar instability can be summarized, and each entity will be discussed 
further below: Young patients (10 to 17 years old). Acute traumatic episode. 
Chronic patholaxity - Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. Bony malalignment - femoral 
anteversion, genu valgum, and external tibial torsion / pronated feet. The three 
bony malalignments combined are termed "Miserable Malalignment Syndrome" and 
lead to an increased Q angle. Anatomical pathology - trochlear dysplasia. 
Eventual progression to pain, functional decline, and long-term arthritis. 
Classification Patellofemoral instability is classified descriptively. These 
classifications are listed below: Acute (first dislocation). Subluxation or 
dislocation. Traumatic. Patellar instability. Recurrent. Habitual dislocation - 
involuntary dislocation of the patella. Passive patellar dislocation - with the 
aid of apprehension maneuver. Syndromic - patellar dislocation associated with a 
neuromuscular disorder, connective tissue disorder, or syndrome. Mechanism: 
Traumatic mechanisms can occur with a direct blow with a knee-to-knee collision 
or a helmet to the side of the knee injury. Noncontact twisting injury with the 
knee extended and the foot externally rotated. Evaluation: Presentation:  : 
Patient age and gender: More likely in females. More likely in younger age 
groups (10-17 years old). Record the number of previous dislocation or 
subluxation events. Complaints of instability . History of general ligamentous 
laxity. Any previous surgery. Pain location: Anterior knee pain. Physical 
Examination: Examination will evaluate a number of areas. Evaluate overall limb 
alignment. Hip and knee rotation should be noted: Excessive femoral anteversion 
will show the patient's toes pointed in or "pigeon toed". Presence of large 
hemarthrosis: Evidence of an acute injury. The absence of signs of trauma 
supports a chronic ligamentous laxity mechanism or a habitual mechanism. 
Medial-sided tenderness over the medial patellofemoral ligament (MPFL). Increase 
in passive patellar translation compared to the contralateral side: Midline is 
considered '0' quadrants of movement. Normal is < 2 quadrants of patellar 
translation. Lateral translation of the medial border of the patella to the 
lateral edge of the trochlea is '2' quadrants of motion and considered abnormal. 
Apprehension sign - patella apprehension with passive lateral translation 
results in guarding and lack of a firm endpoint. J sign - excessive lateral 
translation in extension, which then causes the patella to "pop" into the 
trochlear groove as the patella engages the trochlea early in flexion. Assess 
the Q-angle: The angle formed by a line from the ASIS to the center of the 
patella and from the center of the patella to the tibial tubercle. The Q-angle 
in full extension can be falsely normal because the patella is not engaged in 
the trochlea and not on tension. Therefore it is recommended to assess the 
Q-angle in slight flexion, which is more reliable and accurate. . Imaging: 
Radiographic examination will divulge several factors. Radiographs will rule out 
loose bodies: Most common is the medial patellar facet. Lateral femoral condyle. 
AP radiographs: Best for evaluating overall lower extremity alignment. Lateral 
radiographs: Patellar height (Patella Alta versus Baja): Blumensaats line should 
extend to the inferior pole of the patella at 30 degrees of knee flexion. 
Multiple ratios can be calculated and give an idea about the level of the 
patella. Ideally, the following ratio should be calculated with the knee in 30 
degrees of flexion. Either on a lateral radiograph, Sagittal CT, or MRI images. 
Insall-Salvati ratio  (0.8 - 1.2): It is the ratio of the patellar tendon length 
to the length of the patella  (Figure 2)            . If the ratio is >1.2, this 
indicates Patella Alta. Blackburn-Peel ratio  (0.5-1): It is the ratio of the 
perpendicular distance between the tibial plateau and patellar articular surface 
to the length of the patella articular surface. (Figure 3) A ratio >1 indicates 
Patella Alta. Caton-Deschamps - (0.6-1.3): It is the ratio of the distance 
between the most inferior point of the patella articular surface to the anterior 
angle of the tibial plateau and the length of the patellar articular surface. ( 
Figure 4). A ratio > 1.3 indicates Patella Alta. The Caton-Deschamps and 
Blackburn-Peel measurements have higher reliability and can show change after a 
tibial tubercle osteotomy is performed. Patellar tilt. Trochlear dysplasia: 
Crossing sign - seen on lateral radiograph, the trochlear groove lies in the 
same plane as the anterior border of the lateral femoral condyle: Represents a 
flat trochlear groove. Double contour sign - the anterior border of the lateral 
femoral condyle lies anterior to the anterior border of the medial femoral 
condyle: Represents a convex trochlear groove/hypoplastic medial femoral 
condyle. Supratrochlear spur. Sunrise/merchant views: Best assessment for 
patellar tilt. Lateral patellofemoral angle: A line parallel to the lateral 
patellar facet and a line drawn across the posterior femoral condyles. The 
normal angle is >11 degrees opening laterally. Congruence angle is an index of 
subluxation: Measured from a line through the apex of the patella to a line 
bisecting the trochlea. If the congruence angle is lateral to the congruence 
line, it is considered positive. If the congruence angle is medial to the 
congruence line, it is considered negative. The normal angle is < (-)6 meaning 
the more positive the angle, the more subluxed the patella is laterally. CT 
scan: Evaluates femoral anteversion. Evaluation of tibial rotation. TT-TG 
distance (tibial tubercle to trochlear groove): Must be measured on axial images 
- it is calculated by taking a line on axial CT perpendicular to the posterior 
femoral condyles through the trochlear notch and a line through the middle of 
the tibial tubercle. TT-TG distance is normally around 9 mm. TT-TG distance > 
20mm is abnormal and has > 90% association with patellar instability. MRI: 
Evaluation of loose bodies: Osteochondral lesions. The medial patellar facet is 
the most common. Lateral femoral condyle bone bruising. Most of the traumatic 
lesions occur during re-location impact. Best for assessing MPFL: Location of 
injury : The most common injury occurs at the femoral origin (Schottles point). 
Patellar attachment . Midsubstance. Combination. Treatment: Nonoperative  : 
Closed reduction (majority spontaneously reduce on their own), NSAIDs, activity 
modification, and physical therapy: Indications: First-time dislocation. No 
loose bodies or articular damage. No osteochondral fragments. Habitual 
dislocators. Patients with connective tissue disease - Ehlers Danlos. Physical 
therapy should focus on closed chain exercises and quadriceps strengthening. 
Core hip strengthening and gluteal muscle strengthening will improve external 
rotators of the hip, thus externally rotating the femur and decreasing the 
Q-angle. . Patella sleeve - 'J' sleeve. Patellar taping. Operative : General 
indications for surgery: Osteochondral injury with loose body. Chronic 
instability . Failure of nonsurgical treatment. Arthroscopic debridement with 
removal of loose bodies: Indications: Loose bodies or osteochondral damage on 
imaging. Open reduction internal fixation if there is sufficient bone available 
for fixation: Screws and pins. Medial patellofemoral ligament (MPFL) repair: 
Indications: Acute first-time dislocation with a bony fragment. Direct repair 
with surgery can be performed within the first days after injury. No study 
supports this method over nonoperative treatment . MPFL reconstruction with 
autograft versus allograft: Indications: Recurrent instability and no 
malalignment or trochlear dysplasia . Gracillis and semitendinosus commonly 
used. Femoral origin can be reliably found (Schottles point): Schottle point is 
described as 1 mm anterior to the posterior cortex line, 2.5 mm distal to the 
posterior origin of the medial femoral condyle, and proximal to the posterior 
point of Blumensaats line . Tensioning the graft should be done between 60 to 90 
degrees of knee flexion is recommended . Fulkerson-type osteotomy (anterior and 
medial tibial tubercle transfer): Indications: Malalignment - Patellofemoral 
maltracking with degenerative changes on the distal and lateral aspects of the 
patella . TT-TG > 20 mm. Decreases pressure on the lateral patellar facet and 
overall trochlea . Fulkerson showed poorer results with Outerbridge grade 3 or 4 
lesions and lesions in the center of the trochlea or medial aspect of the 
trochlea. Likely will fail when there are large central grade 3 or 4 lesions on 
the trochlea or medial, proximal, or diffuse patella arthritis. Lateral soft 
tissue release: The lateral release has been shown to be ineffective for the 
treatment of patellar instability. Used for lateral compression syndrome where 
there is combined or isolated patellar tilt or excessive tightness after 
medialization procedure. Usually, this is combined with a medialization 
procedure and not done in isolation . Trochleoplasty - sulcus deepening of the 
distal femoral trochlea: Limited use in the U.S. due to serious irreversible 
articular and subchondral injury to the trochlea. Indicated for abnormal 
patellar tracking with J sign caused by femoral trochlear dysplasia. 
Radiographic evidence of trochlear dysplasia. The cancellous bone is exposed in 
the trochlea, and a strip of cortical bone on the edge of the trochlea is 
elevated. The new trochlea sulcus is created, and the trochlear bone shell is 
impacted and secured to the new sulcus fixed with staples or sutures.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 29494034

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Steve Wolfe declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Matthew Varacallo 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. 
Disclosure: Joshua Thomas declares no relevant financial relationships with 
ineligible companies. Disclosure: Jeffrey Carroll declares no relevant financial 
relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Chadi Kahwaji declares no 
relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


24. Zhonghua Lao Dong Wei Sheng Zhi Ye Bing Za Zhi. 2018 Jan 20;36(1):38-41. doi:
 10.3760/cma.j.issn.1001-9391.2018.01.011.

[PAHs exposure and occupational health risk assessment of workers in coal tar 
pitch factory].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Lu CD(1), Sun XC, Zhang LS, Zhang F.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine and life Sciences, University of Jinan-Shandong Academy of 
Medical Sciences, Shandong Academy of Occupational Health and Occupational 
Medicine, Jinan 250062, China.

Objective: To Investigation of industrial sites involving coal tar pitch to 
detect PAHs in the occupational environment and to assess their occupational 
health risks to workers. Methods: Taking coal tar pitch enterprises as the 
research object, and making the occupational health field investigation and 
inspection. Detecting the 16 PAHs in the samples by high performance liquid 
chromatography (HPLC) , analyze the PAHs exposed dose of the workers in the 
place, and using cumulative toxic equivalent quantity method, loss of life 
expectancy method and carcinogenic risk factor method to assessment worker's 
occupational health risk. Results: In the 15 posts involved, Some workers' 
exposed to the total concentration of PAHs is higher than others, the maximum 
exposure concentration is 1931.45ng/m3. There are different hazard risk levels 
in different working post due to different processes.The lifetime risk of 
workers is significantly higher than the acceptable range. Some workers has 
higher carcinogenic risk and workers' life expectancy loss is up to 1033.95 
hours. Conclusion: Part of the coal tar pitch workers exposed to higher 
concentrations of PAHs, and beyond the occupational exposure limits.And there is 
a high occupational health risk due to high exposure to PAHs.

Publisher: 目的： 对涉及煤焦油沥青的工业场所进行调查，检测工人所处职业环境中的PAHs含量并评估其对工人产生的职业健康风险。 方法： 
以煤焦油沥青使用企业为研究对象，对其进行职业卫生现场调查与检测，用高效液相色谱法检测样本中的16种PAHs，分析工人在该场所中PAHs接触剂量，并用累积毒性等效剂量法、预期寿命损失法、致癌风险系数法等方法进行职业健康风险评估。 
结果： 在所涉及的15个岗位中，部分工种所接触的总PAHs浓度较高，最高接触浓度为1 931.45 
ng/m(3)。不同岗位因工艺不同存在不同的危害风险水平，工人的终身超额危险度明显超过可接受范围，部分工种存在较高致癌风险，作业工人的成年人预期寿命损失最高值达到1 
033.95小时。 结论： 部分煤焦油沥青职业工人所接触的PAHs浓度较高，超出职业接触限值，并存在较高的职业健康风险。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.1001-9391.2018.01.011
PMID: 29495178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2018 Feb 24;15(2):391. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph15020391.

Sharply Reduced but Still Heavy Self-Harm Burdens in Hubei Province, China, 
1990-2015.

Pan J(1), Zhang L(2), Tang Y(3), Li Q(4), Yu C(5), He T(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Chronic Non-Communicable Disease Control and Prevention, Hubei 
Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Wuhan 430079, China. 
jpan@hbcdc.com.
(2)Institute of Chronic Non-Communicable Disease Control and Prevention, Hubei 
Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Wuhan 430079, China. 
lan_zhang@hbcdc.com.
(3)Institute of Chronic Non-Communicable Disease Control and Prevention, Hubei 
Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Wuhan 430079, China. 
ym_tang@hbcdc.com.
(4)Institute of Chronic Non-Communicable Disease Control and Prevention, Hubei 
Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Wuhan 430079, China. 
qian_li@hbcdc.com.
(5)School of Health Sciences, Wuhan University, Wuhan 430071, China. 
yuchua@whu.edu.cn.
(6)Institute of Chronic Non-Communicable Disease Control and Prevention, Hubei 
Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Wuhan 430079, China. 
tj_he@hbcdc.com.

The aims of this study were to describe fatal and non-fatal self-harm burdens, 
as well as burdens from the main preventable risk factors, and to investigate 
the different suicide methods in Hubei province in central China utilizing data 
from both Global Burden of Disease Study 2015 and Hubei Disease Surveillance 
Points system. All self-harm burdens including mortality, years of life lost 
(YLLs), prevalence, years lived with disability (YLDs), and disability adjusted 
life-years (DALYs) consistently demonstrated downward trends in Hubei from 1990 
to 2015, with a bigger decline gap observed among females and narrower 
decreasing amplitudes among the elderly. Hubei experienced much higher 
age-standardized rates for self-harm mortality (22.0 per 100,000), YLLs (560.1 
per 100,000) and DALYs (563.9 per 100,000) than the national (9.0, 292.3 and 
295.0 per 100,000 respectively) and global levels (11.5, 453.3 and 457.9 per 
100,000 respectively) in 2015. Self-harm burdens have begun shifting from 
females to males and the elderly suffered more self-harm burdens than other age 
groups. Alcohol use accounted for 20.9% of all self-harm DALYs for males, 
whereas intimate partner violence accounted for 24.4% of all self-harm DALYs for 
females. Poisoning, mainly pesticide self-poisoning, was still the most common 
method of suicide. Effective interventions by multi-sectoral collaboration are 
urgently needed to reduce the alarmingly heavy self-harm burdens in Hubei.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph15020391
PMCID: PMC5858460
PMID: 29495306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


26. Nutrients. 2018 Feb 27;10(3):269. doi: 10.3390/nu10030269.

Nutrition in the Very Old.

Granic A(1)(2)(3), Mendonça N(4)(5), Hill TR(6)(7), Jagger C(8)(9), Stevenson 
EJ(10)(11), Mathers JC(12)(13)(14), Sayer AA(15)(16)(17)(18).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, The Medical School, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK. antoneta.granic@newcastle.ac.uk.
(2)NIHR Newcastle Biomedical Research Centre, Newcastle University and Newcastle 
upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Campus for Ageing and Vitality, 
Newcastle upon Tyne NE4 5PL, UK. antoneta.granic@newcastle.ac.uk.
(3)Newcastle University Institute for Ageing, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4AX, UK. 
antoneta.granic@newcastle.ac.uk.
(4)Newcastle University Institute for Ageing, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4AX, UK. 
n.m.p.mendonca@newcastle.ac.uk.
(5)Institute for Health and Society, Newcastle University, Baddiley-Clark 
Building, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4AX, UK. n.m.p.mendonca@newcastle.ac.uk.
(6)Human Nutrition Research Centre, Newcastle University, William Leech 
Building, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK. tom.hill@newcastle.ac.uk.
(7)Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University, William Leech Building, 
Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK. tom.hill@newcastle.ac.uk.
(8)Newcastle University Institute for Ageing, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4AX, UK. 
carol.jagger@newcastle.ac.uk.
(9)Institute for Health and Society, Newcastle University, Baddiley-Clark 
Building, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4AX, UK. carol.jagger@newcastle.ac.uk.
(10)Human Nutrition Research Centre, Newcastle University, William Leech 
Building, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK. emma.stevenson@newcastle.ac.uk.
(11)Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University, William Leech 
Building, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK. emma.stevenson@newcastle.ac.uk.
(12)Newcastle University Institute for Ageing, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4AX, UK. 
john.mathers@newcastle.ac.uk.
(13)Human Nutrition Research Centre, Newcastle University, William Leech 
Building, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK. john.mathers@newcastle.ac.uk.
(14)Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University, William Leech 
Building, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK. john.mathers@newcastle.ac.uk.
(15)Institute of Neuroscience, The Medical School, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK. avan.sayer@newcastle.ac.uk.
(16)NIHR Newcastle Biomedical Research Centre, Newcastle University and 
Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Campus for Ageing and 
Vitality, Newcastle upon Tyne NE4 5PL, UK. avan.sayer@newcastle.ac.uk.
(17)Newcastle University Institute for Ageing, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4AX, UK. 
avan.sayer@newcastle.ac.uk.
(18)Academic Geriatric Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton, 
Southampton SO17 1BJ, UK. avan.sayer@newcastle.ac.uk.

The population of older adults aged 85 years and over (the very old) is growing 
rapidly in many societies because of increases in life expectancy and reduced 
mortality at older ages. In 2016, 27.3 million very old adults were living in 
the European Union, and in the UK, 2.4% of the population (1.6 million) were 
aged 85 and over. Very old age is associated with increased risks of 
malnutrition, multimorbidity, and disability. Diet (nutrition) is a modifiable 
risk factor for multiple age-related conditions, including sarcopenia and 
functional decline. Dietary characteristics and nutrient intakes of the very old 
have been investigated in several European studies of ageing to better 
understand their nutritional requirements, which may differ from those in the 
young-old. However, there is a major gap in regard to evidence for the role of 
dietary patterns, protein, vitamin D and other nutrients for the maintenance of 
physical and cognitive functioning in later life. The Newcastle 85+ Study, UK 
and the Life and Living in Advanced Age, New Zealand are unique studies 
involving single birth cohorts which aim to assess health trajectories in very 
old adults and their biological, social and environmental influences, including 
nutrition. In this review, we have updated the latest findings in nutritional 
epidemiology with results from these studies, concentrating on the diet-physical 
functioning relationship.

DOI: 10.3390/nu10030269
PMCID: PMC5872687
PMID: 29495468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
founding sponsors had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, 
analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, and in 
the decision to publish the results.


27. BMJ. 2018 Mar 1;360:k1017. doi: 10.1136/bmj.k1017.

Inequalities in life expectancy are widening, data confirm.

Torjesen I(1).

Author information:
(1)London.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.k1017
PMID: 29496682


28. Front Plant Sci. 2018 Feb 15;9:173. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2018.00173. eCollection
 2018.

Biomass Accumulation, Photosynthetic Traits and Root Development of Cotton as 
Affected by Irrigation and Nitrogen-Fertilization.

Chen Z(1), Tao X(1)(2), Khan A(3), Tan DKY(4), Luo H(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Oasis Eco-Agriculture, Xinjiang Production and Construction 
Group, College of Agriculture, Shihezi University, Shihezi, China.
(2)Center of Agricultural Technique Extension of Manasi County, Manasi, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Plant Genetics and Breeding, College of Agriculture, 
Guangxi University, Nanning, China.
(4)Faculty of Science, Plant Breeding Institute, Sydney Institute of 
Agriculture, School of Life and Environmental Sciences, The University of 
Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

Limitations of soil water and nitrogen (N) are factors which cause a substantial 
reduction in cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) yield, especially in an arid 
environment. Suitable management decisions like irrigation method and nitrogen 
fertilization are the key yield improvement technologies in cotton production 
systems. Therefore, we hypothesized that optimal water-N supply can increase 
cotton plant biomass accumulation by maintaining leaf photosynthetic capacity 
and improving root growth. An outdoor polyvinyl chloride (PVC) tube study was 
conducted to investigate the effects of two water-N application depths, i.e., 20 
cm (H20) or 40 cm (H40) from soil surface and four water-N combinations [deficit 
irrigation (W55) and no N (N0) (W55N0), W55 and moderate N (N1) (W55N1), 
moderate irrigation (W75) and N0 (W75N0), W75N1] on the roots growth, leaf 
photosynthetic traits and dry mass accumulation of cotton crops. H20W55N1 
combination increased total dry mass production by 29-82% and reproductive 
organs biomass by 47-101% compared with other counterparts. Root protective 
enzyme and nitrate reductase (NR) activity, potential quantum yield of 
photosystem (PS) II (Fv/Fm), PSII quantum yield in the light [Y(II)] and 
electron transport rate of PSII were significantly higher in H20W55N1 prior to 
82 days after emergence. Root NR activity and protective enzyme were 
significantly correlated with chlorophyll, Fv/Fm, Y(II) and stomatal 
conductance. Hence, shallow irrigation (20 cm) with moderate irrigation and 
N-fertilization application could increase cotton root NR activity and 
protective enzyme leading to enhance light capture and photochemical energy 
conversion of PSII before the full flowering stage. This enhanced 
photoassimilate to reproductive organs.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2018.00173
PMCID: PMC5819319
PMID: 29497435


29. Med Health Care Philos. 2018 Dec;21(4):561-568. doi:
10.1007/s11019-018-9830-5.

Experience adjusted life years and critical medical allocations within the 
British context: which patient should live?

Pruski M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Manchester Metropolitan University, All Saints Building, Manchester, M15 6BH, 
UK. 17104596@stu.mmu.ac.uk.
(2)Critical Care Laboratory, Critical Care Directorate, Manchester Royal 
Infirmary, Manchester University NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, M13 9WL, UK. 
17104596@stu.mmu.ac.uk.

Medical resource allocation is a controversial topic, because in the end it 
prioritises some peoples' medical problems over those of others. This is less 
controversial when there is a clear clinical reason for such a prioritisation, 
but when such a reason is not available people might perceive it as deeming 
certain individuals more important than others. This article looks at the role 
of social utility in medical resource allocation, in a situation where the 
clinical outcome would be identical if either person received the treatment. 
This situation is explored with a focus on the United Kingdom, but its 
conclusions have wider applications to any system where healthcare is tax-payer 
funded. The article proposes an experience adjusted life years system, and 
discusses its strengths and weaknesses.

DOI: 10.1007/s11019-018-9830-5
PMID: 29497890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Pharmacoeconomics. 2018 Jul;36(7):837-851. doi: 10.1007/s40273-018-0630-9.

Economic Analysis of First-Line Treatment with Cetuximab or Panitumumab for RAS 
Wild-Type Metastatic Colorectal Cancer in England.

Tikhonova IA(1), Huxley N(2), Snowsill T(3), Crathorne L(4), Varley-Campbell 
J(3), Napier M(5), Hoyle M(3).

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Technology Assessment Group (PenTAG), University of Exeter, South 
Cloisters 3.09, St Luke's Campus, Heavitree Road, Exeter, EX1 2LU, UK. 
I.Tikhonova@exeter.ac.uk.
(2)Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(3)Peninsula Technology Assessment Group (PenTAG), University of Exeter, South 
Cloisters 3.09, St Luke's Campus, Heavitree Road, Exeter, EX1 2LU, UK.
(4)Roboleo Ltd, York, UK.
(5)Royal Devon and Exeter NHS Foundation Trust, Exeter, UK.

BACKGROUND: Combination therapies with cetuximab (Erbitux®; Merck Serono UK Ltd) 
and panitumumab (Vectibix®; Amgen UK Ltd) are shown to be less effective in 
adults with metastatic colorectal cancer who have mutations in exons 2, 3 and 4 
of KRAS and NRAS oncogenes from the rat sarcoma (RAS) family.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of the study was to estimate the cost effectiveness of 
these drugs in patients with previously untreated RAS wild-type (i.e. 
non-mutated) metastatic colorectal cancer, not eligible for liver resection at 
baseline, from the UK National Health Service and Personal Social Services 
perspective.
METHODS: We constructed a partitioned survival model to evaluate the long-term 
costs and benefits of cetuximab and panitumumab combined with either FOLFOX 
(folinic acid, fluorouracil and oxaliplatin) or FOLFIRI (folinic acid, 
fluorouracil and irinotecan) vs. FOLFOX or FOLFIRI alone. The economic analysis 
was based on three randomised controlled trials. Costs and quality-adjusted 
life-years were discounted at 3.5% per annum.
RESULTS: Based on the evidence available, both drugs fulfil the National 
Institute for Health and Care Excellence's end-of-life criteria. In the 
analysis, assuming discount prices for the drugs from patient access schemes 
agreed by the drug manufacturers with the Department of Health, predicted mean 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for cetuximab + FOLFOX, panitumumab + 
FOLFOX and cetuximab + FOLFIRI compared with chemotherapy alone appeared 
cost-effective at the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence's 
threshold of £50,000 per quality-adjusted life-year gained, applicable to 
end-of-life treatments.
CONCLUSION: Cetuximab and panitumumab were recommended by the National Institute 
for Health and Care Excellence for patients with previously untreated RAS 
wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer, not eligible for liver resection at 
baseline, for use within the National Health Service in England. Both treatments 
are available via the UK Cancer Drugs Fund.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-018-0630-9
PMID: 29498000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Pharmacoeconomics. 2018 Jun;36(6):641-643. doi: 10.1007/s40273-018-0636-3.

Once Bitten Twice Shy: Thinking Carefully Before Adopting the EQ-5D-5L.

Round J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Health Sciences, Bristol Medical School, University 
of Bristol, Canynge Hall, 39 Whatley Road, BS8 2PS, Bristol, UK. 
Jeff.Round@bristol.ac.uk.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-018-0636-3
PMID: 29498001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Cancer. 2018 May 1;124(9):2001-2009. doi: 10.1002/cncr.31294. Epub 2018 Mar
2.

Dose-intensified hypofractionated stereotactic body radiation therapy for 
painful spinal metastases: Results of a phase 2 study.

Guckenberger M(1), Sweeney RA(2), Hawkins M(3), Belderbos J(4), Andratschke 
N(1), Ahmed M(5), Madani I(1), Mantel F(6), Steigerwald S(6), Flentje M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Leopoldina Hospital Schweinfurt, 
Schweinfurt, Germany.
(3)Cancer Research UK/Medical Research Council Oxford Institute for Radiation 
Oncology, Gray Laboratories, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(5)Department of Radiotherapy, Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust/Institute of 
Cancer Research, Sutton, United Kingdom.
(6)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Würzburg, Würzburg, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND: The objective of this study was to prospectively evaluate 
dose-intensified hypofractionated stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) in 
patients with painful spinal metastases in a multicenter, single-arm, phase 2 
study.
METHODS: Patients with 2 or fewer distinct, noncontiguous, painful, mechanically 
stable, unirradiated spinal metastases from a solid tumor with a Karnofsky 
performance status ≥ 60 were eligible. Patients with a long (Mizumoto score ≤ 4) 
or intermediate overall survival expectancy (Mizumoto score = 5-9) received 48.5 
Gy in 10 fractions or 35 Gy in 5 fractions, respectively, with SBRT. The primary 
outcome was the overall (complete and partial) pain response as measured with 
international consensus guidelines 3 months after SBRT.
RESULTS: There were 57 patients enrolled between 2012 and 2015, and 54 of these 
patients with 60 painful vertebral metastases were analyzed. The 3-month pain 
response was evaluated in 42 patients (47 lesions). An overall pain response was 
observed in 41 lesions (87%), and the pain response remained stable for at least 
12 months. The mean maximum pain scores on a visual analogue scale significantly 
improved from the baseline of 6.1 (standard deviation, 2.5) to 2.0 (standard 
deviation, 2.3) 3 months after treatment (P < .001). The 5-level EuroQol 
5-Dimension Questionnaire quality-of-life (QOL) dimensions (self-reported 
mobility, usual activities, and pain/discomfort) significantly improved from the 
baseline to 3 months after treatment. The 12-month overall survival and local 
control rates were 61.4% (95% confidence interval [CI], 48%-74.8%) and 85.9% 
(95% CI, 76.7%-95%), respectively. Grade 3 toxicity was limited to acute pain in 
1 patient (2%). No patient experienced radiation-induced myelopathy. Six 
patients (11%) developed progressive vertebral compression fractures (VCFs), and 
8 patients (15%) developed new VCFs.
CONCLUSIONS: Dose-intensified SBRT achieved durable local metastasis control and 
resulted in pronounced and long-term pain responses and improved QOL. Cancer 
2018;124:2001-9. © 2018 American Cancer Society.

© 2018 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.31294
PMID: 29499073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Life Sci. 2018 Apr 15;199:23-33. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2018.02.037. Epub 2018
Feb  27.

Isoniazid induces apoptosis: Role of oxidative stress and inhibition of nuclear 
translocation of nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2).

Verma AK(1), Yadav A(2), Singh SV(2), Mishra P(2), Rath SK(3).

Author information:
(1)PCS 103 Genotoxicity Lab, Division of Toxicology and Experimental Medicine, 
CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, B.S. 10/1, Sector 10, Jankipuram 
Extension, Sitapur Road, Lucknow 226031, India; Molecular Biprospection 
Division, CSIR-Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Near Kukrail 
Picnic Spot Road, Lucknow 226015, India.
(2)PCS 103 Genotoxicity Lab, Division of Toxicology and Experimental Medicine, 
CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, B.S. 10/1, Sector 10, Jankipuram 
Extension, Sitapur Road, Lucknow 226031, India.
(3)PCS 103 Genotoxicity Lab, Division of Toxicology and Experimental Medicine, 
CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, B.S. 10/1, Sector 10, Jankipuram 
Extension, Sitapur Road, Lucknow 226031, India. Electronic address: 
skrath@cdri.res.in.

Erratum in
    Life Sci. 2020 Jan 1;240:117136.

AIMS: Long-term treatment of Isoniazid (INH) in tuberculosis (TB) patients can 
lead to anti-tuberculosis drug-induced hepatotoxicity. To understand the 
mechanism of hepatotoxicity, an attempt has been made to elucidate the role of 
Nrf2, a transcription factor induced by oxidative stress, in INH induced 
apoptosis liver cancer cell lines.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cytotoxicity was evaluated by MTT assay. Apoptosis and 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation was performed by flow cytometry. mRNA 
and protein expression of various genes involves in INH induced toxicity was 
evaluated via Real-time PCR and western blot analysis respectively. Differential 
protein expression was performed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis followed 
by identification using MALDI TOF/TOF.
KEY FINDINGS: INH induced ROS and apoptosis in HepG2 as well as THLE-2 cells. 
Nuclear damage was also observed by INH treatment in HepG2 cells. Expression of 
apoptotic (Cytochrome C and Caspase 9) and antioxidative (Keap1 and Nrf2) genes 
were observed to increase. INH induced PKCδ phosphorylation and released Nrf2 
from its inhibitor Keap1 in the cytoplasm of HepG2 cells. However, 
over-expression of Nrf2 did not affect nuclear Nrf2 protein level as well as its 
downstream target NQO1. Nrf2 importer, Karyopherin β1 level was observed to 
decrease in HepG2 as well as THLE-2 cells following INH treatment.
SIGNIFICANCE: These findings suggest that INH prevented Nrf2 translocation into 
the nucleus by inhibiting its importer Karyopherin β1. Therefore Nrf2 might not 
able to bind ARE sequences from inducing antioxidative response for protecting 
the cells undergoing apoptosis.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2018.02.037
PMID: 29499281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Spine J. 2018 Sep;18(9):1552-1557. doi: 10.1016/j.spinee.2018.01.016. Epub
2018  Feb 27.

Cost-utility analysis of cervical deformity surgeries using 1-year outcome.

Poorman GW(1), Passias PG(2), Qureshi R(3), Hassanzadeh H(3), Horn S(1), Bortz 
C(1), Segreto F(1), Jain A(4), Kelly M(5), Hostin R(6), Ames C(7), Smith J(3), 
LaFage V(8), Burton D(9), Bess S(10), Shaffrey C(3), Schwab F(8), Gupta M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, 301 East 
17th St, New York, NY, 10003, USA.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, 301 East 
17th St, New York, NY, 10003, USA. Electronic address: Peter.Passias@nyumc.org.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Virginia, 1215 Lee St, 
Charlottesville, VA, 22908, USA.
(4)Department of Neurologic Surgery, Johns Hopkins Medical Center, 1800 Orleans 
St, Baltimore, MD, 21287, USA.
(5)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Washington University, 1 Barnes Jewish 
Hospital Plaza, St Louis, MO, 63110, USA.
(6)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Baylor Scoliosis Center, 4708 Alliance 
Blvd #800, Plano, TX, 75093, USA.
(7)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of California, 400 Parnassus 
Ave, San Francisco, CA, 94122, USA.
(8)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hospital for Special Surgery, 535 East 
70th St, New York City, NY, 10021, USA.
(9)Department of Orthopaedics, University of Kansas Medical Center, 4000 
Cambridge St, Kansas City, KS, 66160, USA.
(10)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Denver International Spine Center, 1601 
East 19th Ave #6250, Denver, CO, 80218, USA.

BACKGROUND CONTEXT: Cost-utility analysis, a special case of cost-effectiveness 
analysis, estimates the ratio between the cost of an intervention to the benefit 
it produces in number of quality-adjusted life years. Cervical deformity 
correction has not been evaluated in terms of cost-utility and in the context of 
value-based health care. Our objective, therefore, was to determine the 
cost-utility ratio of cervical deformity correction.
STUDY DESIGN: This is a retrospective review of a prospective, multicenter 
cervical deformity database. Patients with 1-year follow-up after surgical 
correction for cervical deformity were included. Cervical deformity was defined 
as the presence of at least one of the following: kyphosis (C2-C7 Cobb angle 
>10°), cervical scoliosis (coronal Cobb angle >10°), positive cervical sagittal 
malalignment (C2-C7 sagittal vertical axis >4 cm or T1-C6 >10°), or horizontal 
gaze impairment (chin-brow vertical angle >25°). Quality-adjusted life years 
were calculated by both EuroQol 5D (EQ5D) quality of life and Neck Disability 
Index (NDI) mapped to short form six dimensions (SF6D) index. Costs were 
assigned using Medicare 1-year average reimbursement for: 9+ level posterior 
fusions (PF), 4-8 level PF, 4-8 level PF with anterior fusion (AF), 2-3 level PF 
with AF, 4-8 level AF, and 4-8 level posterior refusion. Reoperations and deaths 
were added to cost and subtracted from utility, respectively. Quality-adjusted 
life year per dollar spent was calculated using standardized methodology at 
1-year time point and subsequent time points relying on maintenance of 1-year 
utility.
RESULTS: Eighty-four patients (average age: 61.2 years, 60% female, body mass 
index [BMI]: 30.1) were analyzed after cervical deformity correction (average 
levels fused: 7.2, osteotomy used: 50%). Costs associated with index procedures 
were 9+ level PF ($76,617), 4-8 level PF ($40,596), 4-8 level PF with AF 
($67,098), 4-8 level AF ($31,392), and 4-8 level posterior refusion ($35,371). 
Average 1-year reimbursement of surgery was $55,097 at 1 year with eight 
revisions and three deaths accounted for. Cost per quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) gained to 1-year follow-up was $646,958 by EQ5D and $477,316 by NDI SF6D. 
If 1-year benefit is sustained, upper threshold of cost-effectiveness is reached 
3-4.5 years after intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: Medicare 1-year average reimbursement compared with 1-year 
QALYdescribed $646,958 by EQ5D and $477,316 by NDI SF6D. Cervical deformity 
surgeries reach accepted cost-effectiveness thresholds when benefit is sustained 
3-4.5 years. Longer follow-up is needed for a more definitive cost-analysis, but 
these data are an important first step in justifying cost-utility ratio for 
cervical deformity correction.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.spinee.2018.01.016
PMID: 29499339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Sci Total Environ. 2018 Jul 15;630:943-950. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2018.02.261. Epub 2018 Mar 7.

Future temperature-related years of life lost projections for cardiovascular 
disease in Tianjin, China.

Li G(1), Li Y(1), Tian L(1), Guo Q(1), Pan X(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health Sciences, Peking 
University School of Public Health, 38 Xueyuan Road, Haidian District, Beijing 
100191, China.
(2)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health Sciences, Peking 
University School of Public Health, 38 Xueyuan Road, Haidian District, Beijing 
100191, China. Electronic address: xcpan@bjmu.edu.cn.

It is widely accepted that temperatures is associated with cardiovascular 
mortality, however, few studies have explored the effects of temperature on 
years of life lost (YLL) from cardiovascular mortality in China under future 
global warming scenarios. Therefore, there is an urgent need to obtain 
projections of YLL from cardiovascular diseases. Here we applied nineteen 
global-scale climate models (GCMs) and three Representative Concentration 
Pathway emission scenarios (RCPs) in the 2050s and 2070s for temperature-related 
YLL projection in Tianjin, China. We found the relationships between daily 
maximum temperatures with YLL from cardiovascular mortality were basically 
U-shaped. We observed increasing net annual YLL across a range of multiple 
models under different climate scenarios, suggesting that increasing 
heat-related YLL from cardiovascular mortality could offset decreasing 
cold-related YLL from cardiovascular mortality. The largest temperature-related 
YLL from cardiovascular mortality were observed under the RCP8.5 scenario and 
increased more rapidly in the 2070s versus the 2050s. Monthly analyses of 
percent changes in YLL from cardiovascular mortality showed that the largest 
percent increases occurred from May to September. If warm adaptation occurs, 
only the adverse effects under RCP2.6 could be fully offset in both 2050 and 
2070. Our exploration provided further evidence for the potential health impacts 
of global warming and highlighted that government should develop environmental 
policies for future health risks.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2018.02.261
PMID: 29499549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. J Neuroeng Rehabil. 2018 Mar 2;15(1):13. doi: 10.1186/s12984-018-0352-4.

Pilot testing of the spring operated wearable enhancer for arm rehabilitation 
(SpringWear).

Chen J(1)(2)(3), Lum PS(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Catholic University of America, 
Washington, DC, 20064, USA. ji.chen@nih.gov.
(2)Center for Applied Biomechanics and Rehabilitation Research MedStar National 
Rehabilitation Hospital, Washington, DC, 20010, USA. ji.chen@nih.gov.
(3)The Functional & Applied Biomechanics Section Rehabilitation Medicine 
Department Clinical Center, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 20892, 
USA. ji.chen@nih.gov.
(4)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Catholic University of America, 
Washington, DC, 20064, USA.
(5)Center for Applied Biomechanics and Rehabilitation Research MedStar National 
Rehabilitation Hospital, Washington, DC, 20010, USA.

BACKGROUND: Robotic devices for neurorehabilitation of movement impairments in 
persons with stroke have been studied extensively. However, the vast majority of 
these devices only allow practice of stereotyped components of simulated 
functional tasks in the clinic. Previously we developed SpringWear, a wearable, 
spring operated, upper extremity exoskeleton capable of assisting movements 
during real-life functional activities, potentially in the home. SpringWear 
assists shoulder flexion, elbow extension and forearm supination/pronation. The 
assistance profiles were designed to approximate the torque required to move the 
joint passively through its range. These three assisted DOF are combined with 
two passive shoulder DOF, allowing complex multi-joint movement patterns.
METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional study to assess changes in movement 
patterns when assisted by SpringWear. Thirteen persons with chronic stroke 
performed range of motion (ROM) and functional tasks, including pick and place 
tasks with various objects. Sensors on the device measured rotation at all 5 DOF 
and a kinematic model calculated position of the wrist relative to the shoulder. 
Within subject t-tests were used to determine changes with assistance from 
SpringWear.
RESULTS: Maximum shoulder flexion, elbow extension and forearm 
pronation/supination angles increased significantly during both ROM and 
functional tasks (p < 0.002). Elbow flexion/extension ROM also increased 
significantly (p < 0.001). When the subjects volitionally held up the arm 
against gravity, extension at the index finger proximal interphalangeal joint 
increased significantly (p = 0.033) when assisted by SpringWear. The forward 
reach workspace increased 19% (p = 0.002). Nine subjects could not complete the 
functional tasks unassisted and only one showed improvement on task completion 
with SpringWear.
CONCLUSIONS: SpringWear increased the usable workspace during reaching 
movements, but there was no consistent improvement in the ability to complete 
functional tasks. Assistance levels at the shoulder were increased only until 
the shoulder could be voluntarily held at 90 degrees of flexion. A higher level 
of assistance may have yielded better results. Also combining SpringWear with 
HandSOME, an exoskeleton for assisting hand opening, may yield the most dramatic 
improvements in functional task performance. These low-cost devices can 
potentially reduce effort and improve performance during task practice, 
increasing adherence to home training programs for rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1186/s12984-018-0352-4
PMCID: PMC5833152
PMID: 29499712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: All 
experiments were approved by the Office of Research Integrity of the Medstar 
Health Research Institute, Hyattsville, Maryland. IRB number: 2012–011. CONSENT 
FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that 
they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains 
neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


37. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2018 May;72(5):359-360. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2018-210580. Epub 2018 Mar 2.

Social causes of the slowdown in health improvement.

Marmot M.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2018-210580
PMID: 29500311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


38. J Plant Res. 2018 Jul;131(4):655-670. doi: 10.1007/s10265-018-1020-2. Epub
2018  Mar 2.

Lamelloplasts and minichloroplasts in Begoniaceae: iridescence and 
photosynthetic functioning.

Pao SH(1), Tsai PY(1), Peng CI(2), Chen PJ(3)(4), Tsai CC(5), Yang EC(3), Shih 
MC(6)(7), Chen J(6)(7), Yang JY(8), Chesson P(1)(9), Sheue CR(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences and Center of Global Change Biology, National 
Chung Hsing University, 145 Xingda Rd., South Dist., Taichung, 402, Taiwan.
(2)Biodiversity Research Center, Academia Sinica, 128, Sec. 2, Academia Rd., 
Taipei, 115, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Entomology, National Taiwan University, 1, Sec. 4, Roosevelt 
Rd., Taipei, 106, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Evolutionary Studies of Biosystems, SOKENDAI (The Graduate 
University for Advanced Studies), Shonan Village, Hayama, Kanagawa, 240-0193, 
Japan.
(5)Kaohsiung District Agricultural Research and Extension Station, 2-6 Dehe Rd., 
Changjhih, 908, Pingtung County, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Physics, National Chung Hsing University, 145 Xingda Rd., South 
Dist., Taichung, 402, Taiwan.
(7)Research Center for Sustainable Energy and Nanotechnology, National Chung 
Hsing University, 145 Xingda Rd., South Dist., Taichung, 402, Taiwan.
(8)Institute of Biochemistry, National Chung Hsing University, 145 Xingda Rd., 
South Dist., Taichung, 402, Taiwan.
(9)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, The University of Arizona, 
Tucson, AZ, 85721, USA.
(10)Department of Life Sciences and Center of Global Change Biology, National 
Chung Hsing University, 145 Xingda Rd., South Dist., Taichung, 402, Taiwan. 
crsheue@nchu.edu.tw.
(11)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, The University of Arizona, 
Tucson, AZ, 85721, USA. crsheue@nchu.edu.tw.

Iridoplasts (modified plastids in adaxial epidermal cells) reported from Begonia 
were originally hypothesized to cause iridescence, which was broadly accepted 
for decades. However, several species of Begonia with iridoplasts are not 
iridescent causing confusion. Here chloroplast ultrastructure was observed in 40 
taxa of Begoniaceae to explore the phenomenon of iridescence. However, 22 
Begonias and Hillebrandia were found to have iridoplasts, but only nine display 
visually iridescent blue to blue-green leaves. Unexpectedly, a new type of 
plastid, a 'minichloroplast,' was found in the abaxial epidermal cells of all 
taxa, but was present in adaxial epidermal cells only if iridoplasts were 
absent. Comparative ultrastructural study of iridoplasts and a shading 
experiment of selected taxa show that a taxon with iridoplasts does not 
inevitably have visual iridescence, but iridescence is greatly affected by the 
spacing between thylakoid lamellae (stoma spacing). Thus, we propose instead the 
name 'lamelloplast' for plastids filled entirely with regular lamellae to avoid 
prejudging their function. To evaluate photosynthetic performance, chlorophyll 
fluorescence (F v /F m ) was measured separately from the chloroplasts in the 
adaxial epidermis and lower leaf tissues by using leaf dermal peels. 
Lamelloplasts and minichloroplasts have much lower photosynthetic efficiency 
than mesophyll chloroplasts. Nevertheless, photosynthetic proteins (psbA protein 
of PSII, RuBisCo and ATPase) were detected in both plastids as well as mesophyll 
chloroplasts in an immunogold labeling. Spectrometry revealed additional blue to 
blue-green peaks in visually iridescent leaves. Micro-spectrometry detected a 
blue peak from single blue spots in adaxial epidermal cells confirming that the 
color is derived from lamelloplasts. Presence of lamelloplasts or 
minichloroplasts is species specific and exclusive. High prevalence of 
lamelloplasts in Begoniaceae, including the basal clade Hillebrandia, highlights 
a unique evolutionary development. These new findings clarify the association 
between iridescence and lamelloplasts, and with implications for new directions 
in the study of plastid morphogenesis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10265-018-1020-2
PMID: 29500749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2018 May;66(5):998-1001. doi: 10.1111/jgs.15263. Epub 2018
Mar  2.

Rational Suicide in Elderly Adults: A Clinician's Perspective.

Balasubramaniam M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, New York University, New York, 
New York.

Comment in
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 2018 May;66(5):853-855.

Geriatricians are increasingly encountering older adults expressing suicidal 
wishes in the absence of overt mental illness. This is expected to grow as life 
expectancy increases. This article describes the case of an older adult who 
expressed the wish to end his life in the absence of a diagnosable mental 
illness. Although he had chronic medical illnesses, he was not terminally ill. 
The complex subject of rational suicide in elderly adults is approached from a 
clinician's perspective. Issues of ageism, gerontophobia, and changing 
perspectives on death are highlighted. The experience of being a Baby Boomer and 
its influence on rational suicide is reviewed. Finally, clinical topics such as 
aging, frailty, dependence on younger and healthier individuals, and the older 
adult's need for a sense of control are explored.

© 2018, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2018, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.15263
PMID: 29500824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Am J Ophthalmol. 2018 May;189:xxiv-xxvii. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2018.02.016.
Epub  2018 Mar 1.

What We Have Learned From the Ocular Hypertension Treatment Study.

Gordon MO(1), Kass MA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University School 
of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University School 
of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri. Electronic address: Kass@wustl.edu.

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2018 Aug;192:248-249.
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2018 Aug;192:249.

PURPOSE: To identify results from the Ocular Hypertension Study that can aid 
patients and clinicians to make evidence-based decisions about the management of 
ocular hypertension.
DESIGN: Perspective.
RESULTS: At 60 months, the cumulative frequency of developing primary open-angle 
glaucoma (POAG) was 4.4% in the medication group and 9.5% in the observation 
group (hazard ratio for medication, 0.40; 95% confidence interval [CI], 
0.27-0.59; P < .0001). At 13 years the cumulative proportion of participants who 
developed POAG was 0.22 (95% CI 0.19-0.25) in the original observation group and 
0.16 (95% CI 0.13-0.19) in the original medication group (complementary log-log 
x2P = .009). A 5-factor model (older age, higher IOP, thinner central corneal 
