Comment on
    J Invest Dermatol. 2018 Apr;138(4):775-784.

Psoriasis is one of the most chronic diseases in dermatology. Only a small 
percentage of patients ever experience relapse-free survival. The constant 
presence of plaques and comorbidities that affect the cardiovascular system, 
joints, and other organs greatly impair patients' quality of life. In addition, 
the life expectancy of psoriatic patients is shortened by several years. Hence, 
long-term and ideally systemic treatment with minimal adverse effects may be 
warranted.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jid.2018.02.008
PMID: 29579453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Semin Respir Crit Care Med. 2018 Apr;39(2):117-125. doi:
10.1055/s-0037-1615796.  Epub 2018 Mar 26.

Selection of Candidates for Lung Transplantation and Controversial Issues.

Orens JB(1), Merlo CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Medicine, 
Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland.

Lung transplantation is a widely accepted treatment to manage the advanced 
stages of many lung diseases that have failed to respond to all other 
therapeutic interventions. There have been ever-expanding indications for lung 
transplantation as a treatment for lung disease. The International Society for 
Heart and Lung Transplantation (ISHLT) updated guidelines for candidate 
selection in 2014. This document was published to serve as a guide in selecting 
appropriate candidates for lung transplantation. Ideal candidates for lung 
transplantation are those with near-end stage disease, limited life expectancy 
due to their lung disease, and who experience significant loss in quality of 
life. At the same time, candidates should be free of significant comorbidities 
that might negatively impact successful transplantation. Despite well thought 
out published guidelines for candidate selection, many controversial issues 
surrounding selection of lung transplant candidates remain. This review will 
focus on some of the more common controversial issues and explain how most 
centers approach these issues when choosing candidates for lung transplantation.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0037-1615796
PMID: 29579765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts of 
interest in this work.


325. Tissue Eng Part A. 2018 Sep;24(17-18):1393-1405. doi:
10.1089/ten.TEA.2017.0502.  Epub 2018 May 9.

Photocrosslinkable Gelatin/Tropoelastin Hydrogel Adhesives for Peripheral Nerve 
Repair.

Soucy JR(1), Shirzaei Sani E(1), Portillo Lara R(1)(2), Diaz D(1), Dias F(1), 
Weiss AS(3), Koppes AN(1)(4), Koppes RA(1), Annabi N(1)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Chemical Engineering, Northeastern University , Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(2)2 Tecnológico de Monterrey, Escuela de IngenierÍa y Ciencias, Zapopan, JAL, 
Mexico .
(3)3 Charles Perkins Centre, School of Life and Environmental Sciences and Bosch 
Institute, University of Sydney , Sydney, Australia .
(4)4 Department of Biology, Northeastern University , Boston, Massachusetts.
(5)5 Harvard-MIT Division of Health Sciences and Technology, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology , Cambridge, Massachusetts.
(6)6 Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, University of 
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California.

Suturing peripheral nerve transections is the predominant therapeutic strategy 
for nerve repair. However, the use of sutures leads to scar tissue formation, 
hinders nerve regeneration, and prevents functional recovery. Fibrin-based 
adhesives have been widely used for nerve reconstruction, but their limited 
adhesive and mechanical strength and inability to promote nerve regeneration 
hamper their utility as a stand-alone intervention. To overcome these 
challenges, we engineered composite hydrogels that are neurosupportive and 
possess strong tissue adhesion. These composites were synthesized by 
photocrosslinking two naturally derived polymers, gelatin-methacryloyl (GelMA) 
and methacryloyl-substituted tropoelastin (MeTro). The engineered materials 
exhibited tunable mechanical properties by varying the GelMA/MeTro ratio. In 
addition, GelMA/MeTro hydrogels exhibited 15-fold higher adhesive strength to 
nerve tissue ex vivo compared to fibrin control. Furthermore, the composites 
were shown to support Schwann cell (SC) viability and proliferation, as well as 
neurite extension and glial cell participation in vitro, which are essential 
cellular components for nerve regeneration. Finally, subcutaneously implanted 
GelMA/MeTro hydrogels exhibited slower degradation in vivo compared with pure 
GelMA, indicating its potential to support the growth of slowly regenerating 
nerves. Thus, GelMA/MeTro composites may be used as clinically relevant 
biomaterials to regenerate nerves and reduce the need for microsurgical suturing 
during nerve reconstruction.

DOI: 10.1089/ten.TEA.2017.0502
PMCID: PMC6150941
PMID: 29580168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: A.S.W. is the Scientific Founder of Elastagen 
Pty Ltd.


326. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2018 Jun;155(6):2466-2468. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2017.12.156. Epub 2018 Mar 10.

Reducing the cost of left ventricular assist devices: Why it matters and can it 
be done?

Shih T(1), Dimick JB(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich. 
Electronic address: tyshih@umich.edu.
(2)Department of Cardiac Surgery, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.

Comment in
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2018 Jun;155(6):2469-2470.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2017.12.156
PMID: 29580654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Schizophr Res. 2018 Sep;199:149-153. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2018.03.031. Epub
 2018 Mar 23.

Accidental deaths among persons with schizophrenia: A nationwide 
population-based cohort study.

Hellemose LAA(1), Laursen TM(2), Larsen JT(3), Toender A(4).

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Register-based Research, Aarhus University, Denmark.
(2)National Centre for Register-based Research, Aarhus University, Denmark; The 
Lundbeck Foundation Initiative for Integrative Psychiatric Research (iPSYCH), 
Denmark. Electronic address: tml@ncrr.dk.
(3)National Centre for Register-based Research, Aarhus University, Denmark; The 
Lundbeck Foundation Initiative for Integrative Psychiatric Research (iPSYCH), 
Denmark.
(4)National Centre for Register-based Research, Aarhus University, Denmark; The 
Lundbeck Foundation Initiative for Integrative Psychiatric Research (iPSYCH), 
Denmark; Centre for Integrated Register-Based Research (CIRRAU), Aarhus 
University, Denmark.

OBJECTIVES: Persons with schizophrenia have a shorter life expectancy by 
15-20years compared to the background population, but little is known about 
deaths caused by accidents. We aimed to investigate the rates of accidental 
death among persons with schizophrenia and compare these rates with those of the 
background population.
METHODS: We conducted a national register-based cohort study of all persons born 
in Denmark between 1955 and 2011. The cohort included 2,703,307 persons, 
representing 56,845,085 person years at risk. We compared rates of accidental 
death between persons with schizophrenia and those without by using Cox 
regression analysis. The main outcome measure was hazard ratio (HR) for 
accidental death.
RESULTS: A total of 12,425 accidental deaths were identified, including 371 
accidental deaths among persons with schizophrenia. We found an increased HR for 
both women with schizophrenia (10.47; 95% CI=8.07-13.58) and men with 
schizophrenia (8.33; 95% CI=7.44-9.33) compared to the background population. 
After adjusting for substance abuse, we found attenuated HRs for both women 
(HR=3.22; 95% CI=2.46-4.20) and men (HR=3.23; 95% CI=2.87-3.63).
CONCLUSIONS: Schizophrenia is a strong independent risk factor for accidental 
deaths. Substance abuse seems to constitute a substantial part of the 
association.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2018.03.031
PMID: 29580741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Br J Gen Pract. 2018 May;68(670):e351-e359. doi: 10.3399/bjgp18X695753. Epub
 2018 Mar 26.

Improving palliative care provision in primary care: a pre- and post-survey 
evaluation among PaTz groups.

van der Plas AG(1), Pasman HRW(1), Schweitzer B(2), Onwuteaka-Philipsen BD(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public and Occupational Health, Expertise Center for Palliative 
Care, and Amsterdam Public Health Research Institute, VU University Medical 
Center, Amsterdam.
(2)Department of Public and Occupational Health, Expertise Center for Palliative 
Care, and Amsterdam Public Health Research Institute, VU University Medical 
Center, Amsterdam, and PaTz Foundation, Amsterdam.

BACKGROUND: In PaTz (PAlliatieve Thuis Zorg, palliative care at home), modelled 
after the Gold Standards Framework, GPs and community nurses meet on a regular 
basis to identify patients with palliative care needs (the PaTz register), and 
to discuss care for these patients.
AIM: To study the effects of the implementation of PaTz, and provide additional 
analyses on two important elements: the PaTz register and patient discussions.
DESIGN AND SETTING: A pre- and post-evaluation among Dutch GPs (n = 195 before 
the start of PaTz; n = 166, 1 year after the start of PaTz). The GPs also 
provided data on recently deceased patients (n = 460 before the start of PaTz; n 
= 305 14 months after the start of PaTz).
METHOD: GPs from all 37 PaTz groups filled in questionnaires. Pre- and post-test 
differences were analysed using multilevel analyses to adjust for PaTz group.
RESULTS: Identification of patients with palliative care needs was done 
systematically for more patients after implementation of PaTz compared with 
before (54.3% versus 17.6%). After implementation, 64.8% of deceased patients 
had been included on the PaTz register. For these patients, when compared with 
patients not included on the PaTz register, preferred place of death was more 
likely to be known (88.1% of patients not on the register and 97.3% of deceased 
patients included on the register), GPs were more likely to have considered a 
possible death sooner (>1 month before death: 53.0% and 80.2%), and 
conversations on life expectancy, physical complaints, existential issues, and 
possibilities of care occurred more often (60.8% and 81.3%; 68.6% and 86.1%; 
22.5% and 34.2%; 60.8% and 84.0%, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Implementation of PaTz improved systematic identification of 
palliative care patients within the GP practice. Use of the PaTz register has 
added value.

© British Journal of General Practice 2018.

DOI: 10.3399/bjgp18X695753
PMCID: PMC5916082
PMID: 29581128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. J Phys Ther Sci. 2018 Mar;30(3):467-473. doi: 10.1589/jpts.30.467. Epub 2018
Mar  2.

Changes in exercise tolerance and quality of life are unrelated in lung cancer 
survivors who undergo video-assisted thoracic surgery.

Anami K(1)(2), Horie J(3), Hirayama Y(4), Yamashita N(5), Ito K(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation, Faculty of Allied Health, Yamato University: 
Suita, Osaka 564-0082, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Comprehensive Rehabilitation, Osaka Prefecture University, 
Japan.
(3)Department of Physical Therapy, Faculty of Health Science, Kyoto-Tachibana 
University, Japan.
(4)Department of Rehabilitation, Mitsubishi Kyoto Hospital, Japan.
(5)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Mitsubishi Kyoto Hospital, Japan.
(6)Department of Rehabilitation, Hirakata Kohsai Hospital, Japan.

[Purpose] The associations between changes in respiratory function, exercise 
tolerance, and quality of life (QOL) in patients with lung cancer who undergo 
lobectomy using video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) are unclear. This 
study aimed to investigate the relationships between exercise tolerance and QOL 
in patients who underwent VATS. [Subjects and Methods] Thirty-six patients with 
lung cancer were followed for 3 months after VATS. Patients were evaluated 
before and 1, 4, and 12 weeks after surgery. Respiratory function, grip 
strength, and knee extension strength, as well as the results of timed up and 
go, 6-minute walk, and cardiopulmonary exercise tests, were evaluated using the 
36-item short-form health survey. Longitudinal changes in physical performance 
and QOL were analyzed, as was the relationship between the change in physical 
function and QOL. [Results] The physical and social aspects of QOL significantly 
decreased at week 4 post-surgery, but recovered to pre-surgical levels by week 
12. In contrast, physical (non-respiratory) function recovered to pre-surgical 
levels by week 4. There was no correlation between the percentages of change in 
QOL and those related to physical function. [Conclusion] Our preliminary study 
highlights the fact that early recovery of physical function is possible after 
VATS, but does not necessarily correlate with early QOL recovery. It is 
therefore necessary to perform perioperative interventions to promptly restore 
QOL after surgery.

DOI: 10.1589/jpts.30.467
PMCID: PMC5857460
PMID: 29581673


330. Biomed Res Int. 2018 Jan 17;2018:6074808. doi: 10.1155/2018/6074808.
eCollection  2018.

Current Strategies of Endocrine Therapy in Elderly Patients with Breast Cancer.

Lee SY(1), Seo JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Oncology/Hematology, Department of Internal Medicine, College of 
Medicine, Korea University, 148 Gurodong-ro, Guro-gu, Seoul 08308, Republic of 
Korea.

Currently, the growing population of the elderly is one of biggest problems in 
terms of increase in geriatric diseases. Lack of data from large prospective 
studies on geriatric breast cancer patients often makes it difficult for 
clinicians to make treatments decisions for them. Because both benefit and risk 
of treatment should be taken into account, treatment is usually determined 
considering life expectancy or comorbidities in elderly patients. Treatment of 
breast cancer is differentiated according to histologic classifications, and 
hormone therapy is even adopted for patients with metastatic breast cancer if 
tumor tissue expresses hormone receptors. Endocrine therapy can offer great 
benefit to elderly patients considering its equivalent efficacy to chemotherapy 
with fewer toxicities if it is appropriately used. Aromatase inhibitors are 
usually prescribed agents in hormone therapy for elderly breast cancer patients 
due to their physiology after menopause. Here, endocrine therapy for elderly 
patients with breast cancer in neoadjuvant, adjuvant, and palliative setting is 
reviewed along with predictive adverse events resulting from the use of hormone 
agents.

DOI: 10.1155/2018/6074808
PMCID: PMC5822785
PMID: 29581979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Pharmacoeconomics. 2018 Sep;36(9):1073-1081. doi: 10.1007/s40273-018-0644-3.

Ixazomib for Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma: Review from an Evidence 
Review Group on a NICE Single Technology Appraisal.

Armoiry X(1), Connock M(2), Tsertsvadze A(2), Cummins E(3), Melendez-Torres 
GJ(2), Royle P(2), Clarke A(2).

Author information:
(1)Warwick Evidence, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, Gibbet Hill 
Road, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK. armoiryxa@gmail.com.
(2)Warwick Evidence, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, Gibbet Hill 
Road, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK.
(3)McMDC, Harrogate, UK.

Ixazomib is an oral proteasome inhibitor used in combination with lenalidomide 
plus dexamethasone (IXA-LEN-DEX) and licensed for relapsed or refractory 
multiple myeloma. As part of a single technology appraisal (ID807) undertaken by 
the National Institute of Health and Care Excellence, the Evidence Review Group, 
Warwick Evidence was invited to independently review the evidence submitted by 
the manufacturer of ixazomib, Takeda UK Ltd. The main source of clinical 
effectiveness data about IXA-LEN-DEX came from the Tourmaline-MM1 randomized 
controlled trial in which 771 patients with relapsed or refractory multiple 
myeloma received either IXA-LEN-DEX or placebo-LEN-DEX as their second-, third-, 
or fourth-line treatment. Takeda estimated the cost effectiveness of IXA-LEN-DEX 
using a de-novo partitioned-survival model with three health states 
(pre-progression, post-progression, and dead). In their first submission, this 
model was used to estimate the cost effectiveness of IXA-LEN-DEX vs. bortezomib 
plus dexamethasone (BORT-DEX) in second-line treatment, and of IXA-LEN-DEX vs. 
LEN-DEX in third-line treatment. To estimate the relative clinical performance 
of IXA-LEN-DEX vs. BORT-DEX, Takeda conducted network meta-analyses for 
important outcomes. The network meta-analysis for overall survival was found to 
be flawed in several respects, but mainly because a hazard ratio input for one 
of the studies in the network had been inverted, resulting in a large inflation 
of the claimed superiority of IXA-LEN-DEX over BORT-DEX and a considerable 
overestimation of its cost effectiveness. In subsequent submissions, Takeda 
withdrew second-line treatment as an option for IXA-LEN-DEX. The manufacturer's 
first submission comparing IXA-LEN-DEX with LEN-DEX for third-line therapy 
employed Tourmaline-MM1 data from third- and fourth-line patients as proxy for a 
third-line population. The appraisal committee did not consider this reasonable 
because randomization in Tourmaline-MM1 was stratified according to one previous 
treatment and two or more previous treatments. A further deficiency was 
considered to be the manufacturer's use of interim survival data rather than the 
most mature data available. A second submission from the company focussed on 
IXA-LEN-DEX vs. LEN-DEX as third- or fourth-line treatment (the two or more 
previous lines population) and a new patient access scheme was introduced. 
Covariate modeling of survival outcomes was proposed using the most mature 
survival data. The Evidence Review Group's main criticisms of the new evidence 
included: the utility associated with the pre-progression health state was 
overestimated, treatment costs of ixazomib were underestimated, survival models 
were still associated with great uncertainty, leading to clinically implausible 
anomalies and highly variable incremental cost-effectiveness ratio estimates, 
and the company had not explored a strong assumption that the survival benefit 
of IXA-LEN-DEX over LEN-DEX would be fully maintained for a further 22 years 
beyond the observed data, which encompassed only approximately 2.5 years of 
observation. The appraisal committee remained unconvinced that ixazomib 
represented a cost-effective use of National Health Service resources. Takeda's 
third submission offered new base-case parametric models for survival outcomes, 
a new analysis of utilities, and proposed a commercial access agreement. In a 
brief critique of the third submission, the Evidence Review Group agreed that 
the selection of appropriate survival models was problematic and at the request 
of the National Institute for Health Care and Excellence investigated external 
sources of evidence regarding survival outcomes. The Evidence Review Group 
considered that some cost and utility estimates in the submission may have 
remained biased in favor of ixazomib. As a result of their third appraisal 
meeting, the committee judged that for the two to three prior therapies 
population, and at the price agreed in a commercial access agreement, ixazomib 
had the potential to be cost effective. It was referred to the Cancer Drugs Fund 
so that further data could accrue with the aim of diminishing the clinical 
uncertainties.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-018-0644-3
PMID: 29582405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Pharmacoeconomics. 2018 May;36(5):545-553. doi: 10.1007/s40273-017-0608-z.

Reslizumab for Treating Asthma with Elevated Blood Eosinophils Inadequately 
Controlled by Inhaled Corticosteroids: An Evidence Review Group Perspective of a 
NICE Single Technology Appraisal.

Cooper K(1), Frampton G(2), Harris P(2), Rose M(2), Chorozoglou M(2), Pickett 
K(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre 
(SHTAC), University of Southampton, Alpha House, Enterprise Road, Southampton 
Science Park, Southampton, SO16 7NS, UK. kc@soton.ac.uk.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre 
(SHTAC), University of Southampton, Alpha House, Enterprise Road, Southampton 
Science Park, Southampton, SO16 7NS, UK.

As part of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) Single 
Technology Appraisal (STA) process, the manufacturer of reslizumab (Teva) 
submitted evidence for its clinical and cost effectiveness for the treatment of 
eosinophilic asthma inadequately controlled by inhaled corticosteroids. NICE 
commissioned Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre (SHTAC) as an 
independent Evidence Review Group (ERG) to provide a critique of the 
manufacturer's submitted evidence. Reslizumab is compared with best standard of 
care and omalizumab, for a small 'overlap' population of patients who have both 
eosinophilic and IgE-mediated severe asthma. This paper provides a summary of 
the ERG's review of the manufacturer's submission, and summarises the NICE 
Appraisal Committee's subsequent guidance (issued in August 2017). The ERG 
considered that there were limitations in the approach proposed by the 
manufacturer for the exacerbation rate and the utility for severe exacerbation. 
The company amended their initial analysis, following comments from the ERG and 
the NICE committee, whereby the incremental cost effectiveness ratio was £29,870 
per QALY gained for reslizumab compared with best standard care. The NICE 
Appraisal Committee (AC) concluded that reslizumab was recommended as an option 
for the treatment of severe eosinophilic asthma that is inadequately controlled 
in adults despite maintenance therapy with high-dose inhaled corticosteroids 
plus another drug, only if (1) the blood eosinophil count has been recorded as 
400 cells per microlitre or more and (2) the patient has had three or more 
asthma exacerbations in the past 12 months, and (3) the company provides 
reslizumab with the discount agreed in the patient access scheme.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-017-0608-z
PMID: 29582406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Harefuah. 2018 Mar;157(3):154-157.

[PERCUTANEOUS TREATMENT OF SMALL RENAL TUMORS BY THERMAL ABLATION].

[Article in Hebrew]

Lorber A(1), Goldberg NS(2), Gofrit ON(1), Pode D(1), Yutkin V(1), Gielchinsky 
I(1), Duvdevani M(1), Landau EH(1), Hidas G(1), Apelbaum L(2).

Author information:
(1)The Urology Department, Hadassah Medical Center.
(2)The Department of Medical Imaging, Hadassah Medical Center.

INTRODUCTION: Kidney cancer accounts for approximately 2-3 % of all types of 
cancers. Renal tumors prevalence and especially the prevalence of small renal 
tumors, is on the rise. About half of the tumors currently diagnosed are smaller 
than 4 cm. Minimally invasive methods of radiofrequency ablation technology were 
recently developed for the treatment of small renal tumors and are characterized 
by reducing the surgical and anesthetic risk. The ablation is performed with a 
percutaneous approach guided by ultrasound, CT or MRI. We reviewed the results 
of this treatment.
METHODS: A total of 75 patients with a mean age of 69.5 years (27 - 90) were 
treated using RF during the period 2007-2014. The average tumor diameter was 
28.4 mm (11-58 mm); 40 tumors were exophytic and 30 were central. Monitoring 
protocol after treatment included imaging after 1, 3, 6, 12 months subsequent to 
treatment and later annually; median follow-up time was 21 months (1 - 97).
RESULTS: Evidence of tumor recurrence was observed in 9 patients (11.4%); 8 were 
treated successfully by another RF session. Cases in which recurrence was 
observed were characterized by a tumor larger than 30 mm (5/9) and adjacent to 
renal cysts (3/9); 5 of the lesions were central (endophytic) (P=0.5). One 
patient died due to metastatic RCC and a metastatic disease developed in two 
additional patients who died of other causes.
CONCLUSIONS: It is possible to destroy most of the small renal tumors by RF 
ablation. When the tumor size is up to 30 mm, a 94% long-term cure may be 
reached. In the event of renewed growth of the tumor, the treatment can be 
repeated with good results. In light of short-term experience, it is recommended 
to limit this treatment to older patients, with a short life expectancy or when 
anesthetic risks prohibit surgery.

PMID: 29582944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Traffic Inj Prev. 2018 Feb 28;19(sup1):S1-S6. doi: 
10.1080/15389588.2017.1344354.

Burden of road traffic injuries related to delays in implementing safety belt 
laws in low- and lower-middle-income countries.

Martin A(1), Lagarde E(1), Salmi LR(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)a Université de Bordeaux, ISPED, INSERM , UMR-1219, Bordeaux , France.
(2)b CHU de Bordeaux, Pôle de Santé publique , Bordeaux , France.

OBJECTIVE: Delayed implementation of effective road safety policies must be 
considered when quantifying the avoidable part of the fatal and nonfatal 
injuries burden. We sought to assess the avoidable part of disability-adjusted 
life years (DALYs) lost due to road traffic injuries related to delays in 
implementing road safety laws in low- and lower-middle-income countries.
METHODS: We chose one country for each of the regions of the World Health 
Organization (WHO) and World Bank (WB) country income levels. We used freely 
available data sets (WHO, International Traffic Safety Data and Analysis Group, 
the WB). Delays in implementation were calculated until 2013, from the year 
mandatory use of safety belts by motor vehicle front seat occupants was first 
introduced worldwide. We used life expectancy tables and age groups as social 
values in the DALY calculation model. From the estimated total burden, avoidable 
DALYs were calculated using estimates of the effectiveness of seat belt laws on 
fatal and nonfatal injuries combined, as extracted from published international 
reviews of evidence.
RESULTS: From the reference year 1972, implementation delays varied from 
27 years (Uzbekistan) to 41 years in Bolivia (no seat belt law as of 2013). 
During delays, total absolute numbers of DALYs lost due to road traffic injuries 
reached 8,462,099 in Nigeria, 7,203,570 in Morocco, 4,695,500 in Uzbekistan, 
3,866,391 in Cambodia, 3,253,359 in Bolivia, and 3,128,721 in Sri Lanka. Using 
effectiveness estimates ranging from 3 to 20% reduction, the avoidable burden of 
road traffic injuries for car occupants was highest in Uzbekistan (avoidable 
part from 1.2 to 10.4%) and in Morocco (avoidable part from 1.5 to 12.3%). In 
countries where users of public transport and pedestrians were the most affected 
by the burden, the avoidable parts ranged from 0.5 to 4.4% (Nigeria) and from 
0.5 to 3.4% (Bolivia). Burden of road traffic injuries mostly affected 
motorcyclists in Sri Lanka and Cambodia where the avoidable parts were less than 
2% in both countries. In all selected countries, burden of traffic injuries 
mostly affected men (about 80%) as well as young people (15-34 years).
CONCLUSIONS: Despite limited data availability in low- and middle-income 
countries, the avoidable part of the burden related to delayed intervention is 
measurable. These results can be used to convince countries to avoid delaying 
the provision of better protection to road users.

DOI: 10.1080/15389588.2017.1344354
PMID: 29584499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. PLoS Med. 2018 Mar 27;15(3):e1002532. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1002532. 
eCollection 2018 Mar.

Cost-effectiveness of multidisciplinary care in mild to moderate chronic kidney 
disease in the United States: A modeling study.

Lin E(1)(2), Chertow GM(1), Yan B(3), Malcolm E(4), Goldhaber-Fiebert JD(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Palo Alto, California, United States of America.
(2)Center for Health Policy/Center for Primary Care and Outcomes Research, 
Stanford University School of Medicine, Palo Alto, California, United States of 
America.
(3)Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, United States of America.
(4)Division of General Medical Disciplines, Department of Medicine, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, Palo Alto, California, United States of America.

Comment in
    PLoS Med. 2018 Mar 27;15(3):e1002533.

BACKGROUND: Multidisciplinary care (MDC) programs have been proposed as a way to 
alleviate the cost and morbidity associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD) in 
the US.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We assessed the cost-effectiveness of a theoretical 
Medicare-based MDC program for CKD compared to usual CKD care in Medicare 
beneficiaries with stage 3 and 4 CKD between 45 and 84 years old in the US. The 
program used nephrologists, advanced practitioners, educators, dieticians, and 
social workers. From Medicare claims and published literature, we developed a 
novel deterministic Markov model for CKD progression and calibrated it to 
long-term risks of mortality and progression to end-stage renal disease. We then 
used the model to project accrued discounted costs and quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) over patients' remaining lifetime. We estimated the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of MDC, or the cost of the intervention per QALY 
gained. MDC added 0.23 (95% CI: 0.08, 0.42) QALYs over usual care, costing 
$51,285 per QALY gained (net monetary benefit of $23,100 at a threshold of 
$150,000 per QALY gained; 95% CI: $6,252, $44,323). In all subpopulations 
analyzed, ICERs ranged from $42,663 to $72,432 per QALY gained. MDC was 
generally more cost-effective in patients with higher urine albumin excretion. 
Although ICERs were higher in younger patients, MDC could yield greater 
improvements in health in younger than older patients. MDC remained 
cost-effective when we decreased its effectiveness to 25% of the base case or 
increased the cost 5-fold. The program costed less than $70,000 per QALY in 95% 
of probabilistic sensitivity analyses and less than $87,500 per QALY in 99% of 
analyses. Limitations of our study include its theoretical nature and being less 
generalizable to populations at low risk for progression to ESRD. We did not 
study the potential impact of MDC on hospitalization (cardiovascular or other).
CONCLUSIONS: Our model estimates that a Medicare-funded MDC program could reduce 
the need for dialysis, prolong life expectancy, and meet conventional 
cost-effectiveness thresholds in middle-aged to elderly patients with mild to 
moderate CKD.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1002532
PMCID: PMC5870947
PMID: 29584720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I have read the journal's policy and the authors 
of this manuscript have the following competing interests: JDGF is a member of 
the Editorial Board of PLOS Medicine.


336. PLoS One. 2018 Mar 27;13(3):e0194821. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0194821. 
eCollection 2018.

Global nutrition 1990-2015: A shrinking hungry, and expanding fat world.

Peng W(1)(2), Berry EM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Nutrition, School of Medicine, Qinghai 
University, Xining, China.
(2)Research Center, the Amity Foundation, Nanjing, China.
(3)Department of Human Nutrition and Metabolism, Braun School of Public Health, 
Hebrew University Hadassah Medical School, Jerusalem, Israel.

OBJECTIVES: Following its publication in 2008, the Global Nutritional Index 
(GNI) which captures the triple burden of malnutrition, has been updated to 
assess the overall nutritional status and nutritional trends of countries, 
regions and the world, including both under-nutrition and over-nutrition.
METHODS: The GNI was modeled on the Human Development Index, using geometric 
means of three normalized indicators: protein-energy malnutrition (PEM, measured 
by Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) from PEM), micronutrient deficiency 
(MID, measured by DALYs from MID), and penalizing obesity (percent female 
obesity). GNI (range 0-1) was calculated from 1990-2015 for 186 countries, in 
seven World Bank income and WHO region groupings.
RESULTS: World GNI increased from 0.433 to 0.473 as decreased deficits 
overcompensated for the rise in obesity. GNI for African low- and middle-income 
countries (LMIC) (median 0.301 to 0.392) and South-East Asian LMIC (0.456 to 
0.564) improved significantly (P<0.001), while for high-income countries (0.657 
to 0.611) worsened significantly (P<0.001). GNI for American LMIC (0.459 to 
0.457), European LMIC (0.571 to 0.575), Eastern Mediterranean LMIC (0.484 to 
0.483) and Western Pacific LMIC (0.433 to 0.494) were unchanged. The 
disaggregation of the GNI showed that in nearly all the seven country groups 
there was a significant decrease in both PEM and MID (all P<0.01) (except in HIC 
where only PEM dropped), and a significant increase in obesity (all P<0.001).
CONCLUSION: These trends are the result of the reciprocal changes between 
decreased under-nutrition and increased over-nutrition, which has become a major 
cause of malnutrition worldwide. We suggest, therefore, that future Sustainable 
Development Goals should include alongside "zero hunger"-"reduce obesity".

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0194821
PMCID: PMC5870987
PMID: 29584768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


337. Med Decis Making. 2018 Apr;38(3):400-422. doi: 10.1177/0272989X18754513.

Microsimulation Modeling for Health Decision Sciences Using R: A Tutorial.

Krijkamp EM(1), Alarid-Escudero F(2), Enns EA(2), Jalal HJ(3), Hunink 
MGM(1)(4)(5), Pechlivanoglou P(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus MC, Epidemiology Department, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)University of Minnesota School of Public Health, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(3)University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of Public Health, Pittsburgh, PA, 
USA.
(4)Erasmus MC, Radiology Department, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Center for Health Decision 
Science, Boston, USA.
(6)Child Health Evaluative Sciences, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, 
ON, Canada.
(7)Institute of Health Policy Management and Evaluation, University of Toronto, 
ON, Canada.

Microsimulation models are becoming increasingly common in the field of decision 
modeling for health. Because microsimulation models are computationally more 
demanding than traditional Markov cohort models, the use of computer programming 
languages in their development has become more common. R is a programming 
language that has gained recognition within the field of decision modeling. It 
has the capacity to perform microsimulation models more efficiently than 
software commonly used for decision modeling, incorporate statistical analyses 
within decision models, and produce more transparent models and reproducible 
results. However, no clear guidance for the implementation of microsimulation 
models in R exists. In this tutorial, we provide a step-by-step guide to build 
microsimulation models in R and illustrate the use of this guide on a simple, 
but transferable, hypothetical decision problem. We guide the reader through the 
necessary steps and provide generic R code that is flexible and can be adapted 
for other models. We also show how this code can be extended to address more 
complex model structures and provide an efficient microsimulation approach that 
relies on vectorization solutions.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X18754513
PMCID: PMC6349385
PMID: 29587047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Int J Mol Sci. 2018 Mar 25;19(4):978. doi: 10.3390/ijms19040978.

Protein Expression in Tonsillar and Base of Tongue Cancer and in Relation to 
Human Papillomavirus (HPV) and Clinical Outcome.

Ramqvist T(1), Näsman A(2), Franzén B(3), Bersani C(4), Alexeyenko A(5)(6), 
Becker S(7), Haeggblom L(8), Kolev A(9), Dalianis T(10), Munck-Wikland E(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology-Pathology, Karolinska Institutet, Karolinska 
University Hospital, 171 76 Stockholm, Sweden. torbjorn.ramqvist@ki.se.
(2)Department of Oncology-Pathology, Karolinska Institutet, Karolinska 
University Hospital, 171 76 Stockholm, Sweden. anders.nasman@ki.se.
(3)Department of Oncology-Pathology, Karolinska Institutet, Karolinska 
University Hospital, 171 76 Stockholm, Sweden. bo.franzen@ki.se.
(4)Department of Oncology-Pathology, Karolinska Institutet, Karolinska 
University Hospital, 171 76 Stockholm, Sweden. cinzia.bersani@ki.se.
(5)Department of Microbiology, Tumor and Cell Biology (MTC), Karolinska 
Institutet, 171 77 Stockholm, Sweden. andrej.alekseenko@scilifelab.se.
(6)National Bioinformatics Infrastructure Sweden, Science for Life Laboratory, 
17121 Solna, Sweden. andrej.alekseenko@scilifelab.se.
(7)Department of Oncology-Pathology, Karolinska Institutet, Karolinska 
University Hospital, 171 76 Stockholm, Sweden. susanne.becker@ki.se.
(8)Department of Oncology-Pathology, Karolinska Institutet, Karolinska 
University Hospital, 171 76 Stockholm, Sweden. linnea.haeggblom@ki.se.
(9)Department of Clinical Science and Technology (CLINTEC), Karolinska 
Institutet, Karolinska University Hospital, 171 76 Stockholm, Sweden. 
aeneas.kolev@sll.se.
(10)Department of Oncology-Pathology, Karolinska Institutet, Karolinska 
University Hospital, 171 76 Stockholm, Sweden. tina.dalianis@ki.se.
(11)Department of Clinical Science and Technology (CLINTEC), Karolinska 
Institutet, Karolinska University Hospital, 171 76 Stockholm, Sweden. 
eva.munck-afrosenschold-wikland@sll.se.

Human papillomavirus (HPV) is a major etiological factor for tonsillar and the 
base of tongue cancer (TSCC/BOTSCC). HPV-positive and HPV-negative TSCC/BOTSCC 
present major differences in mutations, mRNA expression and clinical outcome. 
Earlier protein studies on TSCC/BOTSCC have mainly analyzed individual proteins. 
Here, the aim was to compare a larger set of cancer and immune related proteins 
in HPV-positive and HPV-negative TSCC/BOTSCC in relation to normal tissue, 
presence of HPV, and clinical outcome. Fresh frozen tissue from 42 HPV-positive 
and 17 HPV-negative TSCC/BOTSCC, and corresponding normal samples, were analyzed 
for expression of 167 proteins using two Olink multiplex immunoassays. Major 
differences in protein expression between TSCC/BOTSCC and normal tissue were 
identified, especially in chemo- and cytokines. Moreover, 34 proteins, mainly 
immunoregulatory proteins and chemokines, were differently expressed in 
HPV-positive vs HPV-negative TSCC/BOTSCC. Several proteins were potentially 
related to clinical outcome for HPV-positive or HPV-negative tumors. For 
HPV-positive tumors, these were mostly related to angiogenesis and hypoxia. 
Correlation with clinical outcome of one of these, VEGFA, was validated by 
immunohistochemistry. Differences in immune related proteins between 
HPV-positive and HPV-negative TSCC/BOTSCC reflect the stronger activity of the 
immune defense in the former. Angiogenesis related proteins might serve as 
potential targets for therapy in HPV-positive TSCC/BOTSCC.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms19040978
PMCID: PMC5979357
PMID: 29587383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


339. Nutrients. 2018 Mar 26;10(4):411. doi: 10.3390/nu10040411.

Global Correlates of Cardiovascular Risk: A Comparison of 158 Countries.

Grasgruber P(1), Cacek J(2), Hrazdíra E(3), Hřebíčková S(4), Sebera M(5).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Sports Studies, Masaryk University, Kamenice 5, 625 00 Brno, Czech 
Republic. 32487@mail.muni.cz.
(2)Faculty of Sports Studies, Masaryk University, Kamenice 5, 625 00 Brno, Czech 
Republic. jan.cacek@gmail.com.
(3)Faculty of Sports Studies, Masaryk University, Kamenice 5, 625 00 Brno, Czech 
Republic. hrazdira@fsps.muni.cz.
(4)Faculty of Sports Studies, Masaryk University, Kamenice 5, 625 00 Brno, Czech 
Republic. s.hrebickova@mail.muni.cz.
(5)Faculty of Sports Studies, Masaryk University, Kamenice 5, 625 00 Brno, Czech 
Republic. sebera@fsps.muni.cz.

The aim of this study was a large-scale ecological analysis of nutritional and 
other environmental factors potentially associated with the incidence of 
cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) in the global context. Indicators of CVDs from 
158 countries were compared with the statistics of mean intake (supply) of 60 
food items between 1993 and 2011, obesity rates, health expenditure and life 
expectancy. This comparison shows that the relationship between CVD indicators 
(raised blood pressure, CVD mortality, raised blood glucose) and independent 
variables in the global context is influenced by various factors, such as short 
life expectancy, religiously conditioned dietary customs, the imprecision of 
some statistics and undernutrition. However, regardless of the statistical 
method used, the results always show very similar trends and identify high 
carbohydrate consumption (mainly in the form of cereals and wheat, in 
particular) as the dietary factor most consistently associated with the risk of 
CVDs. These findings are in line with the changing view of the causes of CVDs. 
Because the statistics of raised blood glucose only include people using 
medications and do not reflect true prevalence that is independent of 
healthcare, more objective data on the prevalence of CVDs are needed to confirm 
these observed trends.

DOI: 10.3390/nu10040411
PMCID: PMC5946196
PMID: 29587470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


340. Epigenomics. 2018 Jul;10(7):891-901. doi: 10.2217/epi-2018-0016. Epub 2018
Mar  28.

Hypomethylation of GRHL3 gene is associated with the occurrence of neural tube 
defects.

Tian T(1), Wang L(1), Shen Y(2), Zhang B(2), Finnell RH(3), Ren A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Reproductive & Child Health, Ministry of Health Key Laboratory 
of Reproductive Health, Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, School of 
Public Health, Peking University Health Science Center, Beijing, PR China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Cell Proliferation & Differentiation of Ministry of 
Education, College of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing, PR China.
(3)Departments of Molecular & Cellular Biology & Medicine, Baylor College of 
Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

AIM: To investigate the relationship between GRHL3 methylation and the etiology 
of neural tube defects (NTDs).
MATERIALS & METHODS: Analyze data from a genome-wide DNA methylation array. 
Targeted DNA methylation analysis was performed for 46 cases and 23 controls. At 
last, grhl3 overexpression and gene depletion experiments were conducted in 
zebrafish.
RESULTS: Five hypomethylated CpGs were discovered in the methylation arrays 
performed on NTD cases. In a validation study, 15 hypomethylated CpGs were found 
and the overall methylation levels decreased in brain/spinal cord tissue from 
NTD cases. The knockdown and overexpression of grhl3 in zebrafish damaged 
embryonic convergent extension processes.
CONCLUSION: Hypomethylation of GRHL3 in central nervous tissue is associated 
with NTDs, further supporting the importance of GRHL3 and methylation in proper 
neural tube closure.

DOI: 10.2217/epi-2018-0016
PMCID: PMC6077761
PMID: 29587534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Financial & competing interests disclosure This 
work was supported by grants from the National Natural Science Foundation of 
China (Grants No. 81472987 and 81773441, 81371264); Beijing Natural Science 
Foundation (Grant No. 7162094); and the National Key Research and Development 
Program, Ministry of Science and Technology, PR China (Grant No. 
2016YFC1000501). Peking University Health Science Center Interdisciplinary 
Research Seed Fund (No. BMU20140446). The authors have no other relevant 
affiliations or financial involvement with any organization or entity with a 
financial interest in or financial conflict with the subject matter or materials 
discussed in the manuscript apart from those disclosed. No writing assistance 
was utilized in the production of this manuscript.


341. BMC Public Health. 2018 Mar 27;18(1):416. doi: 10.1186/s12889-018-5314-z.

Supporting change in chronic disease risk behaviours for people with a mental 
illness: a qualitative study of the experiences of family carers.

Bailey JM(1)(2), Hansen V(3), Wye PM(4)(5), Wiggers JH(5)(6)(7), Bartlem 
KM(4)(5)(6), Bowman JA(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, Faculty of Science and Information Technology, The 
University of Newcastle, University Drive, Callaghan, NSW, 2308, Australia. 
jacqueline.m.bailey@uon.edu.au.
(2)Hunter Medical Research Institute, Clinical Research Centre, Lot 1 Kookaburra 
Circuit, New Lambton Heights, NSW, 2305, Australia. 
jacqueline.m.bailey@uon.edu.au.
(3)University Centre for Rural Health, School of Public Health, University of 
Sydney, Uralba Street, Lismore, NSW, 2480, Australia.
(4)School of Psychology, Faculty of Science and Information Technology, The 
University of Newcastle, University Drive, Callaghan, NSW, 2308, Australia.
(5)Hunter Medical Research Institute, Clinical Research Centre, Lot 1 Kookaburra 
Circuit, New Lambton Heights, NSW, 2305, Australia.
(6)Population Health, Hunter New England Local Health District, Booth Building, 
Wallsend Health Services, Longworth Avenue, Wallsend, NSW, 2287, Australia.
(7)School of Medicine and Public Health, Faculty of Health and Medicine, The 
University of Newcastle, University Drive, Callaghan, NSW, 2308, Australia.

BACKGROUND: People with a mental illness experience greater chronic disease 
morbidity and mortality, and associated reduced life expectancy, compared to 
those without such an illness. A higher prevalence of chronic disease risk 
behaviours (inadequate nutrition, inadequate physical activity, tobacco smoking, 
and harmful alcohol consumption) is experienced by this population. Family 
carers have the potential to support change in such behaviours among those they 
care for with a mental illness. This study aimed to explore family carers': 1) 
experiences in addressing the chronic disease risk behaviours of their family 
members; 2) existing barriers to addressing such behaviours; and 3) perceptions 
of potential strategies to assist them to provide risk behaviour change support.
METHODS: A qualitative study of four focus groups (n = 31), using a 
semi-structured interview schedule, was conducted with carers of people with a 
mental illness in New South Wales, Australia from January 2015 to February 2016. 
An inductive thematic analysis was employed to explore the experience of carers 
in addressing the chronic disease risk behaviours.
RESULTS: Two main themes were identified in family carers' report of their 
experiences: firstly, that health behaviours were salient concerns for carers 
and that they were engaged in providing support, and secondly that they 
perceived a bidirectional relationship between health behaviours and mental 
well-being. Key barriers to addressing behaviours were: a need to attend to 
carers' own well-being; defensiveness on behalf of the family member; and not 
residing with their family member; with other behaviour-specific barriers also 
identified. Discussion around strategies which would assist carers in providing 
support for health risk behaviours identified a need for improved communication 
and collaboration between carers and health services accessed by their family 
members.
CONCLUSIONS: Additional support from general and mental health services accessed 
by family members is desired to assist carers to address the barriers to 
providing behaviour change support. Carers have the potential to support and 
extend health service interventions aimed at improving the chronic disease risk 
behaviours of people with a mental illness but may require additional 
information, and collaboration from services. Further research is needed to 
explore these constructs in a large representative sample.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-018-5314-z
PMCID: PMC5872395
PMID: 29587704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The 
study was approved by the Hunter New England Human Research Ethics Committee 
(No. 14/10/15/4.04) and was registered with the University of Newcastle’s Human 
Research Ethics Committee (No. H-2015-0387). All participants provided written 
informed consent. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: 
Author KB is an Associate Editor for BMC Public Health, and had no involvement 
in any decisions regarding the handling of this manuscript. The authors declare 
that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains 
neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


342. Int J Biol Macromol. 2018 Jul 15;114:626-631. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2018.03.148. Epub 2018 Mar 26.

Innovative edible packaging from mango kernel starch for the shelf life 
extension of red chili powder.

Nawab A(1), Alam F(2), Haq MA(3), Haider MS(4), Lutfi Z(5), Kamaluddin S(4), 
Hasnain A(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science & Technology, University of Karachi, Karachi 
75270, Pakistan. Electronic address: anjumnawab@uok.edu.pk.
(2)Department of Food Science & Technology, University of Karachi, Karachi 
75270, Pakistan. Electronic address: ferozalam@uok.edu.pk.
(3)Department of Food Science & Technology, University of Karachi, Karachi 
75270, Pakistan. Electronic address: abdul.haq@uok.edu.pk.
(4)PCSIR Laboratories Complex Karachi, Pakistan.
(5)Department of Food Science & Technology, University of Karachi, Karachi 
75270, Pakistan. Electronic address: zubala.lutfi@uok.edu.pk.
(6)Department of Food Science & Technology, University of Karachi, Karachi 
75270, Pakistan. Electronic address: abidhasnain@uok.edu.pk.

In this study mango kernel starch (MKS) based heat sealable pouches were 
developed for packing of red chili powder. The films were prepared by casting 
technique using glycerol, sorbitol and 1:1 mixture of glycerol and sorbitol and 
were sealed. All films showed better heat sealing capacity but glycerol films 
plasticized exhibited higher seal strength than their counterparts. The red 
chili powder was packed in the MKS film pouches while commercially available 
polyethylene (PE) film was used as control. The pungency and color of red chili 
powder was monitored during six months storage at 40°C. The capsaicinoid content 
was extracted from the red chili with acetonitrile and evaluated quantitatively 
using spectrophotometric method. The extractable color was measured by ASTA 
method using acetone. The results showed significant differences in color and 
pungency of chili packed in MKS and PE pouches. The highest reduction in 
capsaicinoid content (pungency) of chili powder was observed in PE pouch (25.9%) 
while lowest was observed in MKS pouch containing sorbitol (15.7%). Similarly 
color loss was also highest in chili packed in PE pouch while lowest in 
MKS-sorbitol pouch.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2018.03.148
PMID: 29588202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. JMIR Serious Games. 2018 Mar 27;6(1):e4. doi: 10.2196/games.7758.

Development of an Exergame to Deliver a Sustained Dose of High-Intensity 
Training: Formative Pilot Randomized Trial.

McBain T(#)(1), Weston M(#)(2), Crawshaw P(#)(2), Haighton C(#)(3)(4), Spears 
I(#)(5).

Author information:
(1)Academy of Sport and Physical Activity, Sheffield Hallam University, 
Sheffield, United Kingdom.
(2)School of Social Sciences, Humanities & Law, Teesside University, 
Middlesbrough, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Social Work, Education & Community Wellbeing, Northumbria 
University, Newcastle upon Tyne, United Kingdom.
(4)Institute of Health & Society, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, 
United Kingdom.
(5)Pro-Football Support Ltd, Huddersfield, United Kingdom.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Sport science can play a critical role in reducing health 
inequalities. The inverse relationship between life expectancy, 
cardiorespiratory fitness, and socioeconomic status could be addressed by 
performing high-intensity training (HIT), delivered in a class salient and 
accessible approach. Commercially available exergames have shown encouraging 
compliance rates but are primarily designed for entertainment purposes rather 
than focusing on health-related outcomes. A serious game tailored toward 
delivering an exercise stimulus, while reducing the aversive protocols 
associated with HIT, could be beneficial to engage and improve health outcomes 
in socially deprived males.
OBJECTIVE: The aims of this study were to develop an exergame capable of 
delivering HIT and evaluate the effect on selected health outcomes in men 
recruited in regions of socioeconomic deprivation.
METHODS: We conducted an exploratory trial in our target population, and 
participants were allocated to intervention (n=14) or control groups (n=10) by 
third-party minimization. The intervention was a 6-week training program 
consisting of three sessions of exergaming per week. The sessions involved a 
structured warm-up, then brief intermittent repetitions in the form of boxing 
rounds (10 s, 20 s, and 30 s) against their peers with a work/rest ratio of 
0.25.
RESULTS: Retention to the intervention was 87.5% (21/24). Over the duration of 
the intervention, session attendance was 67.5% (170/252); repetition mean and 
peak heart rates (% of maximal) and session ratings of perceived exertion (AU, 
arbitrary units) were 86.3 (5.4%), 89.9 (6.1%), and 7.5 (2.2 AU), respectively. 
The effect of the intervention, when compared with the control, was a likely 
small beneficial improvement in predicted maximum oxygen consumption (VO2 max, 
3.0; 90% confidence limits ±2.6%). Effects on body mass, waist circumference, 
and blood pressure were either trivial or unclear.
CONCLUSIONS: Over the 6-week intervention, the exergame delivered a consistent 
and sustained dose of HIT, with some beneficial effects on aerobic fitness in 
the target population.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03477773; 
https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03477773 (Archived by WebCite at 
http://www.webcitation.org/6yDLgVs35).

©Thomas McBain, Matthew Weston, Paul Crawshaw, Catherine Haighton, Iain Spears. 
Originally published in JMIR Serious Games (http://games.jmir.org), 27.03.2018.

DOI: 10.2196/games.7758
PMCID: PMC5893890
