States; Life Sciences Institute, Department of Biological Chemistry, University 
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, United States.
(2)Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, United 
States.
(3)Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, United 
States; Life Sciences Institute, Department of Medicinal Chemistry, University 
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, United States; Life Sciences Institute, Department 
of Chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, United States; Life 
Sciences Institute, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, United States. Electronic address: davidhs@umich.edu.

β-Branching is an expansion upon canonical polyketide synthase extension that 
allows for the installation of diverse chemical moieties in several natural 
products. Several of these moieties are unique among natural products, including 
the two vinyl methylesters found in the core structure of bryostatins. This 
family of molecules is derived from an obligate bacterial symbiont of a sessile 
marine bryozoan, Bugula neritina. Within this family, bryostatin 1 has been 
investigated as an anticancer, neuroprotective, and immunomodulatory compound. 
We have turned to the biosynthetic gene cluster within the bacterial symbiont to 
investigate the biosynthesis of bryostatins. Recent sequencing efforts resulted 
in the annotation of two missing genes: bryT and bryU. Using novel 
chemoenzymatic techniques, we have validated these as the missing enoyl-CoA 
hydratase and donor acyl carrier protein, essential components of the 
β-branching cassette of the bryostatin pathway. Together, this cassette installs 
the vinyl methylester moieties essential to the activity of bryostatins.

© 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.mie.2018.01.034
PMCID: PMC6327954
PMID: 29779653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Tuberculosis (Edinb). 2018 May;110:112-120. doi: 10.1016/j.tube.2017.10.006.
 Epub 2017 Nov 8.

Should all suspected tuberculosis cases in high income countries be tested with 
GeneXpert?

Vella V(1), Broda A(2), Drobniewski F(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases and Immunity, Imperial College London, 
London, United Kingdom. Electronic address: v.vella@imperial.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases and Immunity, Imperial College London, 
London, United Kingdom. Electronic address: a.broda@imperial.ac.uk.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases and Immunity, Imperial College London, 
London, United Kingdom. Electronic address: f.drobniewski@imperial.ac.uk.

In countries with a low incidence of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB), 
universal testing with GeneXpert might not be always cost-effective. This study 
provides hospital managers in low MDR-TB incidence countries with criteria on 
when decentralised universal GeneXpert testing would make sense. The 
alternatives taken into consideration include: universal microbiological culture 
and drug susceptibility testing (DST) only (comparator); as above but with 
concurrent centralized GeneXpert in a referral laboratory vs a decentralized 
GeneXpert system in every hospital to test smear-positive cases only; as above 
but testing all samples with GeneXpert regardless of smear status. The 
parameters were from the national TB statistics for England and from a 
systematic review. Decentralised GeneXpert to test any suspected TB case was the 
most cost-effective option when 6% or more TB patients belonged to the high-risk 
group, defined as previous TB diagnosis and or being born in countries with a 
high MDR-TB incidence. Hospital managers in England and other low MDR-TB 
incidence countries could use these findings to decide when to invest in 
GeneXpert or other molecular diagnostics with similar performance criteria for 
TB diagnostics.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tube.2017.10.006
PMID: 29779766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Curr Biol. 2018 Jun 4;28(11):1714-1724.e4. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2018.04.015.
Epub  2018 May 17.

Short-Term, Intermittent Fasting Induces Long-Lasting Gut Health and 
TOR-Independent Lifespan Extension.

Catterson JH(1), Khericha M(1), Dyson MC(1), Vincent AJ(1), Callard R(1), 
Haveron SM(1), Rajasingam A(1), Ahmad M(1), Partridge L(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Healthy Ageing, Genetics, Evolution and Environment, University 
College London, Darwin Building, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK.
(2)Institute of Healthy Ageing, Genetics, Evolution and Environment, University 
College London, Darwin Building, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK; Max Planck 
Institute for Biology of Ageing, Joseph-Stelzmann-Strasse 9b, 50931 Cologne, 
Germany. Electronic address: l.partridge@ucl.ac.uk.

Intermittent fasting (IF) can improve function and health during aging in 
laboratory model organisms, but the mechanisms at work await elucidation. We 
subjected fruit flies (Drosophila melanogaster) to varying degrees of IF and 
found that just one month of a 2-day fed:5-day fasted IF regime at the beginning 
of adulthood was sufficient to extend lifespan. This long-lasting, beneficial 
effect of early IF was not due to reduced fecundity. Starvation resistance and 
resistance to oxidative and xenobiotic stress were increased after IF. 
Early-life IF also led to higher lipid content in 60-day-old flies, a potential 
explanation for increased longevity. Guts of flies 40 days post-IF showed a 
significant reduction in age-related pathologies and improved gut barrier 
function. Improved gut health was also associated with reduced relative 
bacterial abundance. Early IF thus induced profound long-term changes. 
Pharmacological and genetic epistasis analysis showed that IF acted 
independently of the TOR pathway because rapamycin and IF acted additively to 
extend lifespan, and global expression of a constitutively active S6K did not 
attenuate the IF-induced lifespan extension. We conclude that short-term IF 
during early life can induce long-lasting beneficial effects, with robust 
increase in lifespan in a TOR-independent manner, probably at least in part by 
preserving gut health.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2018.04.015
PMCID: PMC5988561
PMID: 29779873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. J Clin Lipidol. 2018 Jul-Aug;12(4):857-862. doi: 10.1016/j.jacl.2018.04.006.
 Epub 2018 Apr 21.

Variations in time to benefit among clinical trials of cholesterol-lowering 
drugs.

Barter PJ(1), Waters DD(2).

Author information:
(1)From the School of Medical Sciences, University of New South Wales, Sydney, 
Australia; Division of Cardiology, Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital, 
San Francisco, CA, USA.
(2)From the School of Medical Sciences, University of New South Wales, Sydney, 
Australia; Division of Cardiology, Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital, 
San Francisco, CA, USA. Electronic address: David.Waters@ucsf.edu.

BACKGROUND: Time to benefit (TTB) in clinical trials of cholesterol-lowering 
drugs is important because it may provide a clue as to the potential mechanism 
of action of the drug, it is helpful in determining when to stop a trial for 
futility, and it may inform treatment decisions in subjects with reduced life 
expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: To compare TTB among clinical trials of cholesterol-lowering drugs.
METHODS: We examined TTB in 24 trials of cholesterol-lowering drugs with 
positive outcomes. Benefit curves were constructed by subtracting the curve for 
a placebo or comparator drug from the curve for active treatment.
RESULTS: TTB ranged from 1 to 30 (mean 13.1) months, being shorter in trials of 
statins (n = 17) compared to nonstatins (n = 7), 10.3 vs 20.0 months. Among 
statin trials, TTB was shorter with atorvastatin (n = 6) than in trials with 
other statins (n = 11), 4.75 compared to 11.4 months.
CONCLUSIONS: TTB is variable among trials of cholesterol-lowering drugs, being 
shorter with statin compared to nonstatin drugs. TTB is shorter with 
atorvastatin than with other statins. For trials of new cholesterol-lowering 
drugs, outcome curves that do not separate for up to 30 months do not preclude 
eventual benefit.

Copyright © 2018 National Lipid Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacl.2018.04.006
PMID: 29779997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Demogr Res. 2017 Jan-Jun;36:1081-1108. doi: 10.4054/DemRes.2017.36.37. Epub
2017  Apr 5.

The population-level impact of public-sector antiretroviral therapy rollout on 
adult mortality in rural Malawi.

Payne CF(1), Kohler HP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and Population Studies Center, University of 
Pennsylvania. 3718 Locust Walk, Philadelphia, PA 19104.

BACKGROUND: Recent evidence from health and demographic surveillance sites 
(HDSS) has shown that increasing access to antiretroviral therapy (ART) is 
reducing mortality rates in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). However, due to limited 
vital statistics registration in many of the countries most affected by the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic, there is limited evidence of the magnitude of ART's effect 
outside of specific HDSS sites. This paper leverages longitudinal 
household/family roster data from the Malawi Longitudinal Survey of Families and 
Health (MLSFH) to estimate the effect of ART availability in public clinics on 
population-level mortality based on a geographically dispersed sample of 
individuals in rural Malawi.
OBJECTIVE: We seek to provide evidence on the population-level magnitude of the 
ART-associated mortality decline in rural Malawi and confirm that this 
population is experiencing similar declines in mortality as those seen in HDSS 
sites.
METHODS: We analyze longitudinal household/family-roster data from four waves of 
the MLSFH to estimate mortality change after the introduction of ART to study 
areas. We analyze life expectancy using the Kaplan-Meier estimator and examine 
how the mortality hazard changed over time by individual characteristics with 
Cox regression.
RESULTS: In the four years following rollout of ART, life expectancy at age 15 
increased by 3.1 years (95% CI 1.1, 5.1), and median length of life rose by over 
ten years.
CONTRIBUTION: Our observations show that the increased availability of ART 
resulted in a substantial and sustained reversal of mortality trends in SSA and 
assuage concerns that the post-ART reversals in mortality are not occurring at 
the same magnitude outside of specific HDSSs.

DOI: 10.4054/DemRes.2017.36.37
PMCID: PMC5959277
PMID: 29780281


915. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2018 May 4;9:220. doi:
10.3389/fendo.2018.00220.  eCollection 2018.

Sex and Gender Differences in Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes.

Harreiter J(1), Kautzky-Willer A(1).

Author information:
(1)Gender Medicine Unit, Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of 
Internal Medicine III, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

Lifestyle intervention programs are effective in the prevention of type 2 
diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in high risk populations. However, most studies only 
give limited information about the influence of sex and/or gender effectiveness 
of these interventions. So far, similar outcome was reported for diabetes 
progression and weight loss. Nevertheless, long-term data on cardiovascular 
outcome are sparse but favoring women regarding all-cause and cardiovascular 
mortality. In both men and women, sex hormone imbalances and reproductive 
disorders are associated with a higher risk of T2DM development. Diabetes 
prevention approaches are reported for polycystic ovary syndrome, gestational 
diabetes mellitus, and erectile dysfunction and are presented in this review. In 
the surgical treatment options for morbid obese patients, sex and gender 
differences are present. Choices and preferences of adherence to lifestyle and 
pharmacological interventions, expectations, treatment effects, and 
complications are influenced by sex or gender. In general, bariatric surgery is 
performed more often in women seeking medical/surgical help to lose weight. Men 
are older and have higher comorbidities and mortality rates and worse follow-up 
outcome after bariatric surgery. A more gender-sensitive clinical approach, as 
well as consideration of ethnicity may improve quality of life and increase 
health and life expectancy in men and women with a high risk for subsequent 
progression to T2DM.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2018.00220
PMCID: PMC5945816
PMID: 29780358


916. Forests. 2018;9(1):26. doi: 10.3390/f9010026.

A Comparison of Simulated and Field-Derived Leaf Area Index (LAI) and Canopy 
Height Values from Four Forest Complexes in the Southeastern USA.

Iiames JS(1), Cooter E(2), Schwede D(2), Williams J(3).

Author information:
(1)U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, National Exposure Research Laboratory, 
Exposure Methods and Measurements Division, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, Research 
Triangle Park, NC 27711, USA.
(2)U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, National Exposure Research Laboratory, 
Atmospheric Modeling and Analysis Division, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, Research 
Triangle Park, NC 27711, USA.
(3)Texas A & M University, Agri-Life Research, Temple, TX 76502, USA.

Vegetative leaf area is a critical input to models that simulate human and 
ecosystem exposure to atmospheric pollutants. Leaf area index (LAI) can be 
measured in the field or numerically simulated, but all contain some inherent 
uncertainty that is passed to the exposure assessments that use them. LAI 
estimates for minimally managed or natural forest stands can be particularly 
difficult to develop as a result of interspecies competition, age and spatial 
distribution. Satellite-based LAI estimates hold promise for retrospective 
analyses, but we must continue to rely on numerical models for alternative 
management analysis. Our objective for this study is to calculate and validate 
LAI estimates generated from the USDA Environmental Policy Impact Climate (EPIC) 
model (a widely used, field-scale, biogeochemical model) on four forest 
complexes spanning three physiographic provinces in Virginia and North Carolina. 
Measurements of forest composition (species and number), LAI, tree diameter, 
basal area, and canopy height were recorded at each site during the 2002 field 
season. Calibrated EPIC results show stand-level temporally resolved LAI 
estimates with R2 values ranging from 0.69 to 0.96, and stand maximum height 
estimates within 20% of observation. This relatively high level of performance 
is attributable to EPIC's approach to the characterization of forest stand 
biogeochemical budgets, stand history, interspecies competition and 
species-specific response to local weather conditions. We close by illustrating 
the extension of this site-level approach to scales that could support regional 
air quality model simulations.

DOI: 10.3390/f9010026
PMCID: PMC5954438
PMID: 29780445

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


917. Front Public Health. 2018 May 4;6:138. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2018.00138. 
eCollection 2018.

Is the Rise in the Prevalence of Renal Replacement Therapy at Older Ages the 
Price for Living Longer?

Peters F(1)(2), Westphal C(3), Kramer A(4), Westerman R(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and Demography, University of Rostock, Rostock, 
Germany.
(2)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany.
(3)Project Group Extracorporeal Immunomodulation, Fraunhofer Institute for Cell 
Therapy and Immunology (IZI), Rostock, Germany.
(4)ERA-EDTA Registry, Department of Medical Informatics, Academic Medical 
Center, Amsterdam University, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(5)Competence Center Mortality Follow-Up, Germany National Cohort, Federal 
Institute for Population Research, Wiesbaden, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Renal replacement therapy (RRT) is one of the most expensive in 
renal medicine. Cross-sectional studies suggest that life expectancy increases 
in the general population are associated with a higher burden of RRT. This study 
tests this hypothesis in a prospective setting among people aged 75+ living in 
Western Europe.
METHODS: We gathered sex-specific data for 11 Western European countries in 
2005-2014. RRT prevalence on country level was extracted from the ERA-EDTA 
registry, while data on population size and life expectancy for the 75+ age 
group came from the Eurostat database. GDP per capita was extracted from the 
OECD database. To measure the association between RRT prevalence and life 
expectancy, we performed Poisson regression models separately for each country 
and for all countries combined. To adjust for confounding, GDP per capita as 
well as time and country-fixed effects were included.
RESULTS: Our analysis revealed that living longer coincides with rising RRT 
prevalence at ages 75+ in Western Europe between 2005 and 2014. On average, a 
1-year increase in life expectancy was associated with a roughly 20% increase in 
RRT prevalence [(95% CI) 21-23% in men and 19-22% in women]. However, after 
adjustments for confounding were made, the association became insignificant 
among women and became weaker among men, falling to a level of 11% [(95% CI) 
6-17%].
CONCLUSION: Living longer was not necessarily associated with a higher burden of 
RRT in Western European countries.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2018.00138
PMCID: PMC5945809
PMID: 29780798


918. Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom. 2018 Sep 15;32(17):1549-1556. doi:
10.1002/rcm.8160.

Detection of acetyltransferase modification of kanamycin, an aminoglycoside 
antibiotic, in bacteria using ultrahigh-performance liquid chromatography tandem 
mass spectrometry.

Perez JJ(1), Chen CY(2).

Author information:
(1)Residue Chemistry and Predictive Microbiology Research Unit, US Department of 
Agriculture, 600 East Mermaid Lane, Wyndmoor, PA 19038, USA.
(2)Molecular Characterization of Foodborne Pathogens Research Unit, US 
Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, Eastern Regional 
Research Center, 600 East Mermaid Lane, Wyndmoor, PA 19038, USA.

RATIONALE: The occurrence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria is a worldwide issue 
that has the potential, if not addressed, to eliminate classes of antibiotics 
that have extended life expectancy in the last century. An approach to confront 
this threat is the development of technologies that greatly accelerate the 
detection of antibiotic resistance to minimize unnecessary treatment involving 
antibiotics. Development of an analytical method for rapid detection of 
aminoglycoside resistance using liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS) 
has not been reported in the literature and is described here.
METHODS: A strain of Escherichia coli carrying a plasmid encoding an 
aminoglycoside-modifide enzyme (N-acetyltransferase) was incubated with 
kanamycin, an aminoglycoside. The antibiotic and its modified form were observed 
using LC/MS. An ABSciex QTrap 6500+ was used for kinetic and quantitative 
analysis and high-resolution structural elucidation was performed using a Thermo 
Fisher Q-Exactive hybrid quadrupole-orbitrap mass spectrometer.
RESULTS: Detection of kanamycin modification was achieved in less than an hour 
of incubation. Calibration curves for both modified and unmodified kanamycin 
from 0.5 to 50 μg mL-1 were obtained. Generation and depletion of modified and 
unmodified kanamycin as a function of time were performed. High-resolution mass 
spectrometry was employed for confirmation and structural elucidation of the 
novel precursor and product ion biomarkers with high mass accuracy (≤7 ppm).
CONCLUSIONS: A newly developed analytical method is able to determine bacterial 
resistance to aminoglycosides (via acetylation of kanamycin), qualitatively and 
quantitatively, within 30 minutes and 6 hours of incubation with kanamycin, 
respectively. High-resolution data support the placement of an acetyl group on 
kanamycin confirming aminoglycoside resistance and its mechanism. Quantification 
was achieved for both forms of the antibiotic 50- to 100-fold lower than the 
minimum inhibitory concentration for the resistant bacteria and can be used to 
replace conventional antimicrobial susceptibility tests.

Published 2018. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public 
domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1002/rcm.8160
PMID: 29781236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Rejuvenation Res. 2018 Jun;21(3):278-282. doi: 10.1089/rej.2018.2088.

Finally, a Regimen to Extend Human Life Expectancy.

Larrick JW(1)(2), Mendelsohn AR(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Panorama Research Institute , Sunnyvale, California.
(2)2 Regenerative Sciences Institute , Sunnyvale, California.

The United States has the most expensive healthcare system worldwide. Yet 
measures of health span and life expectancy are well below the major 
industrialized nations. With the U.S. population aged 65 years and older 
projected to double by mid-century, a healthcare crisis is looming. Within this 
context, huge interest and investment have emerged in technologies and drugs to 
address aging with an expected benefit to health span. The thesis being that 
such basic interventions will reduce morbidity caused by many chronic diseases 
wherein biological age itself is the major risk factor. In the light of limited 
progress to date, a recent study out of the Harvard School of Public Health is 
quite refreshing: less than half dozen lifestyle interventions can greatly 
increase health span. Perhaps these are familiar: cessation of smoking, ≥30 
minutes of moderate daily exercise, high-quality diet (limited processed food), 
modest alcohol intake, and maintenance of an optimal body mass index of 
18.5-24.9 kg/m2. From age 50 years, women engaging in all of these behaviors 
versus those who do zero can expect to have a life expectancy of 43.1 additional 
years (an extra 14 years) with men gaining 37.6 years (an extra 12.2 years). A 
regimen to extend life expectancy is at hand. However, there is room for 
optimization by including the effects of sleep, intermittent fasting, and/or 
caloric restriction. Moreover, the extension of life expectancy by adherence to 
a healthy lifestyle revises the health span threshold for antiaging treatments 
under development and should provide a better set of controls for clinical 
trials investigating novel treatments of aging.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2018.2088
PMID: 29781380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Vasc Med. 2018 Aug;23(4):377-383. doi: 10.1177/1358863X18767761. Epub 2018
May  20.

Life expectancy and comorbidities in patients with hereditary hemorrhagic 
telangiectasia.

Droege F(1), Thangavelu K(1), Stuck BA(2), Stang A(3), Lang S(1), Geisthoff 
U(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Essen University 
Hospital, University Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(2)2 Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, University 
Hospital Marburg, Philipps-Universität Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(3)3 Center of Clinical Epidemiology, Institute of Medical Informatics, Biometry 
and Epidemiology, Essen University Hospital, Essen, Germany.

There are only a few published studies that demonstrate associations between 
life expectancy, severe comorbidities, and their complications in patients with 
hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT). Relatives of 73 deceased patients 
with suspected HHT completed a questionnaire about causes of death, and symptoms 
and comorbidities that the patients had developed. We compared the data for 55 
cases where HHT had been clinically confirmed with the general population. 
Patients suffering from HHT lost, on average, 19 years (SD 11 years) of 
potential life compared to the general population. Among the deceased HHT 
patients, 35% (95% CI: 23-48%) died from sepsis, 26% (95% CI: 16-38%) from 
cardiac failure, 20% (95% CI: 9-28%) from a severe bleeding episode, and 13% 
(95% CI: 6-24%) from terminal cancer. Congestive heart failure (69%, 95% CI: 
56-80%) and pulmonary hypertension (23%, 95% CI: 14-36%) were the main non-fatal 
comorbidities in patients with HHT. Patients with HHT appear to have a lower 
life expectancy than the general population. Sepsis and cardiac failure were the 
main causes of death. Optimized and targeted screening programs for the most 
frequent comorbidities followed by improved management of infectious 
complications may increase life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1177/1358863X18767761
PMID: 29781402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Aging Ment Health. 2019 Aug;23(8):1000-1007. doi:
10.1080/13607863.2018.1471581.  Epub 2018 May 21.

Happy life expectancy and correlates of happiness among older adults in South 
Africa.

Chirinda W(1), Phaswana-Mafuya N(2).

Author information:
(1)a Health Systems Research Unit , South African Medical Research Council , 
Cape Town , South Africa.
(2)b Office of the Deputy Vice Chancellor, Research and Innovation , North-West 
University , Potchefstroom , South Africa.

Objectives: This paper examines factors associated with happiness and to 
estimate happy life expectancy for older people in South Africa. Methods: The 
study uses data from the first wave of the Study on Ageing and Adult Health 
(SAGE) survey, which is a nationally representative population-based survey with 
a sample of 3,840 individuals aged 50 years and above. The Sullivan method and 
multivariate linear regression analysis were used in the analysis. Results: The 
prevalence of happiness was the same for men (55.5%) and women (55.4%) at the 
youngest of the age groups (50-59). However, this prevalence was higher in men 
than women across older ages. Women demonstrated longer life expectancy and 
happy life expectancy, but also unhappy life expectancy, compared to men, across 
all the ages. However, men had greater proportions of happy life expectancies 
compared to women. In multivariate analysis, wealth status, health, activity 
limitation, race and age were significantly associated with happiness among men 
and women. Conclusions: Gender disparities in happiness are demonstrated in this 
study. It is important to understand the factors that promote happiness in older 
people as this may point to areas that need intervention for improving overall 
quality of life.

DOI: 10.1080/13607863.2018.1471581
PMID: 29781714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. J Clin Oncol. 2018 Aug 1;36(22):2326-2347. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2018.78.8687.
Epub  2018 May 21.

Practical Assessment and Management of Vulnerabilities in Older Patients 
Receiving Chemotherapy: ASCO Guideline for Geriatric Oncology.

Mohile SG(1), Dale W(1), Somerfield MR(1), Schonberg MA(1), Boyd CM(1), Burhenn 
PS(1), Canin B(1), Cohen HJ(1), Holmes HM(1), Hopkins JO(1), Janelsins MC(1), 
Khorana AA(1), Klepin HD(1), Lichtman SM(1), Mustian KM(1), Tew WP(1), Hurria 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Supriya G. Mohile, Michelle C. Janelsins, and Karen M. Mustian, University of 
Rochester Medical Center, Rochester; Beverly Canin, Breast Cancer Options, 
Kingston; Stuart M. Lichtman and William P. Tew, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, NY; William Dale, Peggy S. Burhenn, and Arti Hurria, City of 
Hope, Duarte, CA; Mark R. Somerfield, American Society of Clinical Oncology, 
Alexandria, VA; Mara A. Schonberg, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 
Brookline, MA; Cynthia M. Boyd, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD; Harvey Jay Cohen, Duke University Medical Center, Durham; Judith 
O. Hopkins, Novant Health Oncology Specialists; Heidi D. Klepin, Wake Forest 
Baptist Comprehensive Cancer Center, Winston-Salem, NC; Holly M. Holmes, 
McGovern Medical School, Houston, TX; and Alok A. Khorana, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, OH.

Purpose To provide guidance regarding the practical assessment and management of 
vulnerabilities in older patients undergoing chemotherapy. Methods An Expert 
Panel was convened to develop clinical practice guideline recommendations based 
on a systematic review of the medical literature. Results A total of 68 studies 
met eligibility criteria and form the evidentiary basis for the recommendations. 
Recommendations In patients ≥ 65 years receiving chemotherapy, geriatric 
assessment (GA) should be used to identify vulnerabilities that are not 
routinely captured in oncology assessments. Evidence supports, at a minimum, 
assessment of function, comorbidity, falls, depression, cognition, and 
nutrition. The Panel recommends instrumental activities of daily living to 
assess for function, a thorough history or validated tool to assess comorbidity, 
a single question for falls, the Geriatric Depression Scale to screen for 
depression, the Mini-Cog or the Blessed Orientation-Memory-Concentration test to 
screen for cognitive impairment, and an assessment of unintentional weight loss 
to evaluate nutrition. Either the CARG (Cancer and Aging Research Group) or 
CRASH (Chemotherapy Risk Assessment Scale for High-Age Patients) tools are 
recommended to obtain estimates of chemotherapy toxicity risk; the Geriatric-8 
or Vulnerable Elders Survey-13 can help to predict mortality. Clinicians should 
use a validated tool listed at ePrognosis to estimate noncancer-based life 
expectancy ≥ 4 years. GA results should be applied to develop an integrated and 
individualized plan that informs cancer management and to identify nononcologic 
problems amenable to intervention. Collaborating with caregivers is essential to 
implementing GA-guided interventions. The Panel suggests that clinicians take 
into account GA results when recommending chemotherapy and that the information 
be provided to patients and caregivers to guide treatment decision making. 
Clinicians should implement targeted, GA-guided interventions to manage 
nononcologic problems. Additional information is available at 
www.asco.org/supportive-care-guidelines .

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2018.78.8687
PMCID: PMC6063790
PMID: 29782209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Wiad Lek. 2018;71(3 pt 2):728-732.

Burden of premature mortality caused by four main non-communicable diseases in 
Ukraine.

Ryngach NO(1), Vlasyk LY(2).

Author information:
(1)M.V. Ptukha Institute Of Demography And Social Research Of National Academy 
Of Sciences Of Ukraine, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(2)Higher State Educational Institution Of Ukraine "Bukovinian State Medical 
University", Chernivtsi, Ukraine.

OBJECTIVE: Introduction: The scale and socio-economic implications of the 
non-communicable diseases (NCD) epidemic are growing in Ukraine. The aim: To 
determine the mode of mortality resulted from main non-communicable diseases in 
Ukraine, calculate and estimate the number of years of potential life lost 
(YPLL) due to premature mortality from them.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Materials and Methods: The information base of the study 
was official data of the State Statistics Service of Ukraine on the distribution 
of the deceased by gender, age groups and causes of death in 2016 and World 
Health Statistics 2016 data. The method of potential demography was used to 
estimate demographic losses.
RESULTS: Review: The years of potential life lost for Ukrainian men is more than 
twice as high as that of women. For each case of death in the range of 30-69 
years, an average of 10.3 years of potential life is lost. The group at the 
working age limit 55-59 years gives the most significant loss in terms of the 
contribution in the range of 30-69 years. The structural share of the 
contribution of main NCD to the burden of premature deaths gradually increases 
with age and accumulation of chronic pathology.
CONCLUSION: Conclusions: As a result of the deaths caused by four main NCD in 
the range of 30-69 years in Ukraine in 2016, 1572.793 thousand of person-years 
or almost 56% of losses due to all causes of death at the same age were lost in 
Ukraine.

PMID: 29783257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Wiad Lek. 2018;71(3 pt 2):781-785.

[Conceptual approaches to the investigation of a problem of professional 
training of physical therapists].

[Article in Ukrainian]

Fastivetz AV(1), Khomenko PV(2), Shaparenko IE(2).

Author information:
(1)Poltava Institute Of Business Phee «Istu», Poltava, Ukraine.
(2)Poltava National Pedagogical University Named After V.G. Korolenko, Poltava, 
Ukraine.

OBJECTIVE: Introduction:The level of people's health and its preservation is a 
medical problem that requires the optimal solution and the need to improve the 
management of the system of measures to achieve the goal. According to 
specialists, the health of Ukrainian people is accompanied by high mortality, 
significant parameters of disability and morbidity and a decrease in the average 
life expectancy. Diseases that lead to such negative medical and social and 
socio-economic consequences are so-called "illnesses of a way of life" or 
"diseases of civilization". These diseases have numerous methods of diagnosis, 
treatment and rehabilitation, among which physiotherapy is not the least. That 
is why the issue of training of highly qualified specialists in physical therapy 
is one of the most important tasks, especially in our days when there is a 
constant decrease in the level of health and physical preparedness of the 
population in Ukraine. The aim of the study is a comprehensive analysis of the 
conceptual approaches to the problem of professional training of future physical 
therapists in modern scientific interpretation.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Materials and methods: The aim was achieved through the 
use of a set of general scientific methods, in particular, the analysis, 
systematization and synthesis of these scientific sources.
RESULTS: Review: The authors denoted the conception of professional training of 
physical therapists which is in higher educational establishments. It is 
specified that just competent approach is to be a dominant vector of updating of 
contents of higher education under the conditions of layered training of 
physical therapists. The attention in the article is accentuated on the 
substance and peculiarities of the indicated methodological approaches; it is 
also pointed out that complex use of these approaches gives an opportunity to 
regard the training of specialists as the pedagogical system which promotes 
forming of group of professional features, motives and valuables of specialist 
and pointing out the components of his availability for future activity.
CONCLUSION: Conclusions: Consequently, we have revealed the role of conceptual 
approaches to the professional training of future specialists in physical 
therapy in higher education, which include competence, paradigm, synergetic, 
axiological, subject-activity, acmeological, systemic and cultural. It is 
specified that in the conditions of the medical sector's reformation, the 
application of these approaches is gradually becoming innovative, defining deep 
systemic transformations in the training system for physical therapy.

PMID: 29783267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Per Med. 2009 Sep;6(5):567-577. doi: 10.2217/pme.09.37.

A practice model for personalized healthcare with a public health genomics 
perspective.

Cesuroglu T(1)(2), Karaca S(1), Erge S(1).

Author information:
(1)GENAR Institute for Public Health and Genomics Research, Turkey.
(2)Erler Mah. 1. Cad. 20/5 Cayyolu Ankara, Turkey. tcesuroglu@genar.gen.tr.

Epidemiological and demographic transition has brought populations to an 
extended life expectancy in the 21st Century. The diseases of this century are 
complex, which stem mainly from the complex interactions of the human genome 
with lifestyle and environmental factors. These diseases are common, chronic and 
costly. Currently, the best-known prevention for complex diseases is adopting a 
healthy lifestyle. However, this is not achieved in many places in the world. 
Effective intervention models, including lifestyle changes for the prevention of 
these diseases, is urgently needed. In this report, we introduce a preventive 
healthcare model based on personalized healthcare. It is based on the 
application of public health genomics tools and concepts on an individual level, 
in order to stratify individuals according to risk groups, prevent diseases and 
detect them early.

DOI: 10.2217/pme.09.37
PMID: 29783312


926. BMC Pregnancy Childbirth. 2018 May 21;18(1):179. doi:
10.1186/s12884-018-1738-9.

Identifying and assessing the benefits of interventions for postnatal 
depression: a systematic review of economic evaluations.

Gurung B(1), Jackson LJ(2), Monahan M(1), Butterworth R(3), Roberts TE(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Unit, Institute of Applied Health Research, College of 
Medical and Dental Sciences, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham, 
B15 2TT, UK.
(2)Health Economics Unit, Institute of Applied Health Research, College of 
Medical and Dental Sciences, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham, 
B15 2TT, UK. l.jackson.1@bham.ac.uk.
(3)Cheshire and Mersey Specialist Perinatal Mental Health Service, Thorn Road 
Clinic, Thorn Road, Runcorn, WA7 5HQ, UK.

BACKGROUND: Economic evaluations of interventions for postnatal depression (PND) 
are essential to ensure optimal healthcare decision-making. Due to the 
wide-ranging effects of PND on the mother, baby and whole family, there is a 
need to include outcomes for all those affected and to include health and 
non-health outcomes for accurate estimates of cost-effectiveness. This study 
aimed to identify interventions to prevent or treat PND for which an economic 
evaluation had been conducted and to evaluate the health and non-health outcomes 
included.
METHODS: A systematic review was conducted applying a comprehensive search 
strategy across eight electronic databases and other sources. Full or partial 
economic evaluations of interventions involving preventive strategies (including 
screening), and any treatments for women with or at-risk of PND, conducted in 
OECD countries were included. We excluded epidemiological studies and those 
focussing on costs only. The included studies underwent a quality appraisal to 
inform the analysis.
RESULTS: Seventeen economic evaluations met the inclusion criteria, the majority 
focused on psychological /psychosocial interventions. The interventions ranged 
from additional support from health professionals, peer support, to combined 
screening and treatment strategies. Maternal health outcomes were measured in 
all studies; however child health outcomes were included in only four of them. 
Across studies, the maternal health outcomes included were 
quality-adjusted-life-years gained, improvement in depressive symptoms, PND 
cases detected or recovered, whereas the child health outcomes included were 
cognitive functioning, depression, sleep and temperament. Non-health outcomes 
such as couples' relationships and parent-infant interaction were rarely 
included. Other methodological issues such as limitations in the time horizon 
and perspective(s) adopted were identified, that were likely to result in 
imprecise estimates of benefits.
CONCLUSIONS: The exclusion of relevant health and non-health outcomes may mean 
that only a partial assessment of cost-effectiveness is undertaken, leading to 
sub-optimal resource allocation decisions. Future research should seek ways to 
expand the evaluative space of economic evaluations and explore approaches to 
integrate health and non-health outcomes for all individuals affected by this 
condition. There is a need to ensure that the time horizon adopted in studies is 
appropriate to allow true estimation of the long-term benefits and costs of PND 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1186/s12884-018-1738-9
PMCID: PMC5963067
PMID: 29783936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. (The manuscript does not report on or involve the use of any animal 
or human data or tissue, as it is a systematic review) COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


927. BMC Public Health. 2018 May 22;18(1):599. doi: 10.1186/s12889-018-5504-8.

Economic evaluation of a dietary intervention for adults with major depression 
(the "SMILES" trial).

Chatterton ML(1), Mihalopoulos C(2), O'Neil A(3), Itsiopoulos C(4), Opie R(4), 
Castle D(5), Dash S(6), Brazionis L(7), Berk M(6)(8), Jacka F(6)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Deakin University, Deakin Health Economics, Centre for Population Health 
Research, Waterfront Campus, Room D1.107, Locked Bag 20000, Geelong, VIC, 3220, 
Australia. m.chatterton@deakin.edu.au.
(2)Deakin University, Deakin Health Economics, Centre for Population Health 
Research, Waterfront Campus, Room D1.107, Locked Bag 20000, Geelong, VIC, 3220, 
Australia.
(3)University of Melbourne, Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, 
Carlton, Australia.
(4)School of Allied Health, La Trobe University, Bundoora, Australia.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(6)Deakin University, IMPACT Strategic Research Centre, Barwon Health, Geelong, 
Australia.
(7)Department of Medicine (St Vincent's campus), The University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Australia.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, the Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental 
Health, and Orygen Youth Health Research Centre, University of Melbourne, 
Parkville, VIC, Australia.
(9)Centre for Adolescent Health, Murdoch Children's Research Institute, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(10)Black Dog Institute, Randwick, NSW, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Recently, the efficacy of dietary improvement as a therapeutic 
intervention for moderate to severe depression was evaluated in a randomised 
controlled trial. The SMILES trial demonstrated a significant improvement in 
Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating Scale scores favouring the dietary support 
group compared with a control group over 12 weeks. We used data collected within 
the trial to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of this novel intervention.
METHODS: In this prospective economic evaluation, sixty-seven adults meeting 
DSM-IV criteria for a major depressive episode and reporting poor dietary 
quality were randomised to either seven sessions with a dietitian for dietary 
support or to an intensity matched social support (befriending) control 
condition. The primary outcome was Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) as 
measured by the AQoL-8D, completed at baseline and 12 week follow-up (endpoint) 
assessment. Costs were evaluated from health sector and societal perspectives. 
The time required for intervention delivery was costed using hourly wage rates 
applied to the time in counselling sessions. Food and travel costs were also 
included in the societal perspective. Data on medications, medical services, 
workplace absenteeism and presenteesim (paid and unpaid) were collected from 
study participants using a resource-use questionnaire. Standard Australian unit 
costs for 2013/2014 were applied. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) 
were calculated as the difference in average costs between groups divided by the 
difference in average QALYs. Confidence intervals were calculated using a 
non-parametric bootstrap procedure.
RESULTS: Compared with the social support condition, average total health sector 
costs were $856 lower (95% CI -1247 to - 160) and average societal costs were 
$2591 lower (95% CI -3591 to - 198) for those receiving dietary support. These 
differences were driven by lower costs arising from fewer allied and other 
health professional visits and lower costs of unpaid productivity. Significant 
differences in mean QALYs were not found between groups. However, 68 and 69% of 
bootstrap iterations showed the dietary support intervention was dominant 
(additional QALYs at less cost) from the health sector and societal 
perspectives.
CONCLUSIONS: This novel dietary support intervention was found to be likely 
cost-effective as an adjunctive treatment for depression from both health sector 
and societal perspectives.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australia and New Zealand Clinical Trials Register (ANZCTR): 
ACTRN12612000251820 . Registered on 29 February 2012.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-018-5504-8
PMCID: PMC5963026
PMID: 29783983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: 
Ethical approval was obtained from St. Vincent’s Hospital, Barwon Health and 
Deakin University Human Research Ethics Committees. All participants provided 
written informed consent after receiving a full description of the study. 
COMPETING INTERESTS: Mary Lou Chatterton has received funding support from the 
NHMRC, Beyond Blue, Barwon Child Youth & Family, and Medibank Private Health 
Research Fund. She has served as a consultant for Astra Zeneca, Biogen, and 
Genentech. Cathrine Mihalopoulos was supported by an NHMRC Early Career 
Development Fellowship (#1035887) at the time of this work. She has also 
received additional funding support from the NHMRC, Cancer Council, Mental 
Illness Research Fund, Medibank Private Health Research Fund, Macquarie 
University, Beyond Blue, Murdoch Children’s Research Institute, The University 
of Melbourne, The Australian Commonwealth Department of Health and Ageing, and 
the Australian National Mental Health Commission. Adrienne O’Neil has received 
funding from Meat and Livestock Australia and is supported by an NHMRC ECR 
Fellowship (#1052865). Catherine Itsiopoulos has received funding from the 
NHMRC, the University of Melbourne, Deakin University, La Trobe University, Meat 
and Livestock Board, Australian Society for Enteral and Parenteral Nutrition, 
Harokopio University in Athens, Commonwealth Department of Education, Employment 
and Workplace relations, Diabetes Australia and SWISSE Wellness P/L. She has 
received speaker honoraria from Astra Zeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim and Dairy 
Australia. David Castle has received grant monies for research from Eli Lilly, 
Janssen Cilag, Roche, Allergen, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Pfizer, Lundbeck, Astra 
Zeneca and Hospira and travel support and honoraria for talks and consultancy 
from Eli Lilly, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Astra Zeneca, Lundbeck, Janssen Cilag, 
Pfizer, Organon, Sanofi-Aventis, Wyeth, Hospira and Servier. He is a current 
Advisory Board Member for Lu AA21004; Lundbeck; Varenicline: Pfizer; Asenapine: 
Lundbeck; Aripiprazole LAI: Lundbeck; Lisdexamfetamine: Shire; Lurasidone: 
Servier. He has no stocks or shares in any pharmaceutical company. Michael Berk 
has received Grant/Research Support from the NIH, Cooperative Research Centre, 
Simons Autism Foundation, Cancer Council of Victoria, Stanley Medical Research 
Foundation, MBF, NHMRC, Beyond Blue, Rotary Health, Geelong Medical Research 
Foundation, Bristol Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Glaxo SmithKline, Meat and 
Livestock Board, Organon, Novartis, Mayne Pharma, Servier and Woolworths. He has 
been a speaker for Astra Zeneca, Bristol Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Glaxo 
SmithKline, Janssen Cilag, Lundbeck, Merck, Pfizer, Sanofi Synthelabo, Servier, 
Solvay and Wyeth, and served as a consultant to Allergan, Astra Zeneca, 
Bioadvantex, Bionomics, Collaborative Medicinal Development, Eli Lilly, Glaxo 
SmithKline, Janssen Cilag, Lundbeck Merck, Pfizer and Servier. He is supported 
by an NHMRC Senior Principal Research Fellowship (#1059660). Felice N Jacka has 
received Grant/Research support from the Brain and Behaviour Research Institute, 
the NHMRC, Australian Rotary Health, the Geelong Medical Research Foundation, 
the Ian Potter Foundation, Eli Lilly, Meat and Livestock Australia, Woolworths 
Limited and The University of Melbourne and has received speakers honoraria from 
Sanofi-Synthelabo, Janssen Cilag, Servier, Pfizer, Health Ed, Network Nutrition, 
Angelini Farmaceutica, Metagenics and Eli Lilly. She is supported by an NHMRC 
Career Development Fellowship (#1108125). The other authors have no relevant 
financial disclosures to declare. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains 
neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


928. Food Chem. 2018 Oct 15;263:142-150. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2018.04.071.
Epub  2018 Apr 21.

Effect of food additives on egg yolk gelation induced by freezing.

Primacella M(1), Fei T(2), Acevedo N(3), Wang T(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, Iowa State University, Ames, 
IA 50011, United States.
(2)Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, Iowa State University, Ames, 
IA 50011, United States. Electronic address: feitao@iastate.edu.
(3)Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, Iowa State University, Ames, 
IA 50011, United States. Electronic address: nacevedo@iastate.edu.
(4)Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, Iowa State University, Ames, 
IA 50011, United States. Electronic address: tongwang@iasate.edu.

This study demonstrates technological advances in preventing yolk gelation 
during freezing and thawing. Gelation negatively affects yolk functionality in 
food formulation. Preventing gelation using 10% salt or sugar limits the 
application of the yolk. Novel food additives were tested to prevent gelation 
induced by freezing. Significant reduction (p < 0.05) in gel hardness of 
frozen-thawed yolk (45 h freezing at -20 °C) indicates that hydrolyzed 
carboxymethyl cellulose (HCMC), proline, and hydrolyzed egg white and yolk (HEW 
and HEY) are effective gelation inhibitors. The mechanisms in which these 
additives prevented gelation were further studied through measuring the changes 
in the amount of freezable water, lipoprotein particle size, and protein surface 
hydrophobicity. Overall, this study provides several alternatives of gelation 
inhibitor that have great potentials in replacing the use of salt or sugar in 
commercial operation of freezing egg yolk for shelf-life extension.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2018.04.071
PMID: 29784299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Burns. 2018 Sep;44(6):1446-1450. doi: 10.1016/j.burns.2018.04.009. Epub 2018
May  18.

Life expectancy in elderly patients following burns injury.

Sepehripour S(1), Duggineni S(2), Shahsavari S(2), Dheansa B(2).

Author information:
(1)Queen Victoria Hospital, East Grinstead, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
sarvnazsepehri@googlemail.com.
(2)Queen Victoria Hospital, East Grinstead, United Kingdom.

INTRODUCTION: Burn injuries commonly occur in vulnerable age and social groups. 
Previous research has shown that frailty may represent a more important marker 
of adverse outcome in healthcare rather than chronological age (Roberts et al., 
2012). In this paper we determined the relationship between burn injury, 
frailty, co-morbidities and long-term survival.
METHODOLOGY: Retrospective data collection from patients aged 75 with burns 
injuries, treated and discharged at Queen Victoria Hospital. The Clinical 
Frailty Scale (Rockwood et al., 2005) was used to calculate frailty at the time 
of admission. The expected mortality age (life expectancy) of deceased patients 
was obtained from two survival predictors.
RESULTS: The data shows a statistically significant correlation between frailty 
score and complications and a statistically significant correlation between 
total body surface area percentage and complications. No significant difference 
was found between expected and observed age of death or life expectancy amongst 
the deceased (p value of 0.109).
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the data from our unit, sustaining a burn as an elderly 
person does not reduce life expectancy. Medical and surgical complications, 
immediate, early and late, although higher with greater frailty and TBSA of 
burn, but do not adversely affect survival in this population.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd and ISBI. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.burns.2018.04.009
PMID: 29784558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2018 Oct;19(10):871-878.e2. doi: 
10.1016/j.jamda.2018.04.003. Epub 2018 May 18.

Short-term Resource Utilization and Cost-Effectiveness of Comprehensive 
Geriatric Assessment in Acute Hospital Care for Severely Frail Elderly Patients.

Ekerstad N(1), Karlson BW(2), Andersson D(3), Husberg M(4), Carlsson P(4), 
Heintz E(5), Alwin J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, NU (NÄL-Uddevalla) Hospital Group, 
Trollhättan-Uddevalla-Vänersborg, Sweden; Department of Medical and Health 
Sciences, Division of Health Care Analysis, Linköping University, Sweden. 
Electronic address: niklas.ekerstad@vgregion.se.
(2)Department of Molecular and Clinical Medicine, Institute of Medicine, 
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)Department of Management and Engineering, Division of Economics, Linköping 
University, Sweden.
(4)Department of Medical and Health Sciences, Division of Health Care Analysis, 
Linköping University, Sweden.
(5)Department of Learning, Informatics, Management and Ethics (LIME), QRC 
Research Unit, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to estimate the 3-month within-trial 
cost-effectiveness of comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) in acute medical 
care for frail elderly patients compared to usual medical care, by estimating 
health-related quality of life and costs from a societal perspective.
DESIGN: Clinical, prospective, controlled, 1-center intervention trial with 2 
parallel groups.
INTERVENTION: Structured, systematic interdisciplinary CGA-based care in an 
acute elderly care unit. If the patient fulfilled the inclusion criteria, and 
there was a bed available at the CGA unit, the patient was included in the 
intervention group. If no bed was available at the CGA unit, the patient was 
included in the control group and admitted to a conventional acute medical care 
unit.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: A large county hospital in western Sweden. The trial 
included 408 frail elderly patients, 75 years or older, in need of acute 
in-hospital treatment. The patients were allocated to the intervention group 
(n = 206) or control group (n = 202). Mean age of the patients was 85.7 years, 
and 56% were female.
MEASURES: The primary outcome was the adjusted incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio associated with the intervention compared to the control at the 3-month 
follow-up.
RESULTS: We undertook cost-effectiveness analysis, adjusted by regression 
analyses, including hospital, primary, and municipal care costs and effects. The 
difference in the mean adjusted quality-adjusted life years gained between 
groups at 3 months was 0.0252 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.0082-0.0422]. The 
incremental cost, that is, the difference between the groups, was -3226 US 
dollars (95% CI: -6167 to -285).
CONCLUSION: The results indicate that the care in a CGA unit for acutely ill 
frail elderly patients is likely to be cost-effective compared to conventional 
care after 3 months.

Copyright © 2018 AMDA – The Society for Post-Acute and Long-Term Care Medicine. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2018.04.003
PMID: 29784592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

