effectiveness of 3 strategies: routine clinical surveillance without serial 
imaging and routine annual and biannual MRI surveillance in the first 5 years. 
Two hypothetical cohorts of patients with primary stage T1-2 or T3-4 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma who achieved complete remission after radical treatment 
and remained asymptomatic were analyzed. Baseline probabilities, transition 
probabilities, utilities, and costs were derived from published studies. Markov 
models were used to calculate life-time costs, quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). Model robustness was 
addressed via univariable and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: In T1-2 patients, surveillance strategies utilizing routine MRI 
provided few QALYs compared with non-MRI clinical follow-up (annual MRI, 0.022 
QALYs; biannual MRI, 0.035 QALYs), whereas the costs associated with MRI 
surveillance were considerable. Compared with clinical follow-up, the ICERs for 
annual and biannual MRI strategies were $328,389 and $403,857 per QALY. In T3-4 
patients, annual and biannual MRI surveillance provided 0.052 and 0.088 
incremental QALYs, with ICERs of $156,204 and $169,772 per QALY, respectively. 
Model conclusions were robust and remained stable in 1-way and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Routine MRI surveillance was not cost-effective owing to the high 
cost of MRI coupled with low rates of failure in T1-2 patients, whereas annual 
MRI surveillance was the dominant and possibly a cost-effective strategy for 
T3-4 patients, depending on the social willingness to pay.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2018.01.117
PMID: 29804816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Carbohydr Polym. 2018 Sep 1;195:329-338. doi: 10.1016/j.carbpol.2018.04.089.
 Epub 2018 Apr 24.

Chitosan film incorporated with citric acid and glycerol as an active packaging 
material for extension of green chilli shelf life.

Priyadarshi R(1), Sauraj(1), Kumar B(1), Negi YS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Polymer and Process Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology 
Roorkee, Saharanpur Campus, Saharanpur, 247001 U.P., India.
(2)Department of Polymer and Process Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology 
Roorkee, Saharanpur Campus, Saharanpur, 247001 U.P., India. Electronic address: 
ynegifpt@iitr.ac.in.

Chitosan films with cross linker and plasticizer were prepared using solvent 
casting method for food packaging application. Citric acid was used as the cross 
linker which enhances the stability of the films. Glycerol was used as 
plasticizer which imparts flexibility. Successful cross linking was confirmed by 
Fourier Transform-Infra Red (FT-IR) spectra and incorporation of glycerol was 
seen clearly in the Field Emission Scanning Electron Microscope (FE-SEM) images. 
The modified films show an improved water resistance and transparency. An 
improved moisture barrier was also observed with a 5.5% and 29% reduction in 
water vapor transmission and water vapor permeability, respectively. Modified 
films showed drastic 12 times increase in the elongation percentage value, hence 
enhanced flexibility. However, the tensile strength and Young's modulus 
decreased substantially by 82% and 98%, respectively. The films also showed 
better thermal and antioxidant properties as compared to neat chitosan films and 
were found to enhance green chilli shelf life.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.carbpol.2018.04.089
PMID: 29804984


989. Biomed Rep. 2018 Jun;8(6):540-546. doi: 10.3892/br.2018.1085. Epub 2018 Apr
3.

Neuronal damage and shortening of lifespan in C. elegans by peritoneal dialysis 
fluid: Protection by glyoxalase-1.

Schlotterer A(1), Pfisterer F(2), Kukudov G(1), Heckmann B(3), Henriquez D(4), 
Morath C(5), Krämer BK(1), Hammes HP(1), Schwenger V(6), Morcos M(1).

Author information:
(1)Fifth Medical Department, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, 
D-68167 Mannheim, Germany.
(2)Department of Medicine I and Clinical Chemistry, Heidelberg University, 
D-69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Heidelberg University, D-69120 Heidelberg, 
Germany.
(4)Department of Nephrology, Centre Hospitalier du Nord, 9080 Ettelbruck, 
Luxembourg, Germany.
(5)Department of Nephrology, Heidelberg University, D-69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(6)Klinik für Nieren-, Hochdruck- und Autoimmunerkrankungen, Klinikum Stuttgart, 
D-70174 Stuttgart, Germany.

Glucose and glucose degradation products (GDPs), contained in peritoneal 
dialysis (PD) fluids, contribute to the formation of advanced glycation 
end-products (AGEs). Local damaging effects, resulting in functional impairment 
of the peritoneal membrane, are well studied. It is also supposed that 
detoxification of AGE precursors by glyoxalase-1 (GLO1) has beneficial effects 
on GDP-mediated toxicity. The aim of the current study was to analyze systemic 
detrimental effects of PD fluids and their prevention by glyoxlase-1. Wild-type 
and GLO1-overexpressing Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) were cultivated in 
the presence of low- and high-GDP PD fluids containing 1.5 or 4% glucose. 
Lifespan, neuronal integrity and neuronal functions were subsequently studied. 
The higher concentrations of glucose and GDP content resulted in a decrease of 
maximum lifespan by 2 (P<0.01) and 9 days (P<0.001), respectively. Exposure to 
low- and high-GDP fluids caused reduction of neuronal integrity by 34 (P<0.05) 
and 41% (P<0.05). Cultivation of animals in the presence of low-GDP fluid 
containing 4% glucose caused significant impairment of neuronal function, 
reducing relative and absolute head motility by 58.5 (P<0.01) and 56.7% 
(P<0.01), respectively; and relative and absolute tail motility by 55.1 (P<0.05) 
and 55.0% (P<0.05), respectively. Taken together, GLO1 overexpression protected 
from glucose-induced lifespan reduction, neurostructural damage and 
neurofunctional damage under low-GDP-conditions. In conclusion, both glucose and 
GDP content in PD fluids have systemic impact on the lifespan and neuronal 
integrity of C. elegans. Detoxification of reactive metabolites by GLO1 
overexpression was sufficient to protect lifespan, neuronal integrity and 
neuronal function in a low-GDP environment. These data emphasize the relevance 
of the GLO1 detoxifying pathway as a potential therapeutic target in the 
treatment of reactive metabolite-mediated pathologies.

DOI: 10.3892/br.2018.1085
PMCID: PMC5950604
PMID: 29805788


990. Cent Asian J Glob Health. 2014 Dec 12;3(Suppl):168. doi:
10.5195/cajgh.2014.168.  eCollection 2014.

Application of Clinical Aging Indicators for the Assessment of Neurological 
Health via Screening Among Residents of the Almaty Region.

Nurguzhayev E(1), Iliyev R(1), Mitrokhin D(1), Karimova A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Diseases, Asfendiyarov National Medical 
University, Almaty, Kazakhstan.

INTRODUCTION: Life expectancy at birth is considered to be a primary indicator 
of public health success. However, an increase in life expectancy is meaningless 
if it is not accompanied by an equivalent increase in the number of life years 
without disability such as physical, cognitive, and psychological abilities. The 
main consequences of disease leading to neurological dysfunction are directly 
related to issues such as the inability to walk, talk, learn, live in society, 
or take care of oneself. The objective of the study was to conduct a medical 
examination of elderly people as a part of the scientific program "Development 
of a model (program) of anti-aging to provide active longevity of elderly people 
of Kazakhstan."
METHODS: As part of a pilot study, we assessed the presence of the following 
clinical indicators of aging: cognitive impairment (MMSE test), pyramidal 
symptoms, and ataxia. We conducted medical examination (screening) among 150 
elderly persons in Almaty City Polyclinic #8 and 287 elderly persons in Central 
Regional Clinic of Rayimbek Area, Almaty region aged 45 and above.
RESULTS: The results show that the intensity of changes is directly dependent on 
the age of the study groups. The cognitive function is the most affected and 
depends on the age of examinees. The changes are more expressed among residents 
of Almaty region. The average MMSE score in Almaty was 28.2 (age group of 45-49 
years) and 25.8 (age group of 80 and above), and 27.3 and 24.0 respectively in 
Almaty region. The various symptoms among residents of Almaty tend to stabilize 
after 65 years, however, the frequency of ataxia continues to grow and increases 
significantly after 75 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Considering that important risk factors of neurological disorders 
are cerebrovascular diseases of various origins (primarily hypertension, 
atherosclerosis, and diabetes), an adequate treatment of these diseases will 
increase a healthy lifespan. Furthermore, it is necessary to conduct additional 
research for possible methods of reducing existing morbidities so that healthy 
aging can be achieved.

DOI: 10.5195/cajgh.2014.168
PMCID: PMC5960936
PMID: 29805897


991. Cent Asian J Glob Health. 2014 Dec 12;3(Suppl):174. doi:
10.5195/cajgh.2014.174.  eCollection 2014.

Polyphenol Concentrate from Kazakhstan Cabernet Sauvignon Collection of Grapes.

Shulgau Z(1), Tritek V(1), Gulyaev A(1), Adilgozhina G(1), Nurgozhin T(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Life Sciences, Nazarbayev University, Astana, Kazakhstan.

INTRODUCTION: Nowadays, most of the research in the field of gerontology is 
focused on the effects of the grape polyphenols. In particular, resveratrol has 
been shown to increase life expectancy of various living organisms, including 
mammals. Resveratrol also plays an important role in cancer prevention and 
decreases the risk of developing cardiovascular disease. In our research, we 
proposed the development of the therapeutic product from Cabernet Sauvignon 
grapes that would exhibit the beneficial properties of polyphenols. Standard 
operating procedures were developed in our laboratories to collect alcohol free 
concentrate of polyphenols from the Kazakhstan Cabernet Sauvignon collection of 
grapes. The purpose of the study was to investigate the composition, biological 
safety, and potential therapeutic effects of the polyphenol concentrate.
METHODS: The total polyphenol amount was determined using the Enology Analyzer 
Y15 (BioSystems, Spain). HPLC analysis of the polyphenol composition was 
performed using Agilent 1290 chromatograph. The polyphenol concentrate was 
analyzed for the microbiological purity and the presence of the toxic elements. 
The cytoprotective effect of the polyphenol concentrate was studied in 
experimental models of diabetes, toxic hepatitis, doxorubicin cardiomyopathy, 
and acute radiation sickness.
RESULTS: The total polyphenol amount in one sample was 12,819 mg/l. Polyphenol 
composition analysis showed presence of the following polyphenols: catechin, 
epicatechin, gallic acid, quercetin, miricetin, 3-glucosylkaempferol, 
epicatechin gallate, 3-(3,4-Dihydroxyphenyl)-2-propenoic acid, catechin gallate, 
pitseid, kaempferol, n-hydroxy-cinnamic acid, resveratrol and chlorogenic acid. 
The concentrate was proven to be biologically safe and acceptable for use as a 
dietary supplement. The polyphenol concentrate demonstrated high antioxidant 
activity against ABTS and DPPH radicals in vitro. It also showed the following 
impacts on the various experimental models in vivo: reduction of sugar levels in 
diabetes; regeneration of the structure and function of the heart tissue in 
cardiomyopathy; regeneration of the nephron structure and function in 
nephropathy; regeneration of liver in toxic hepatitis; recovery of the 
antioxidant status in oxidative stress; and recovery of the hematopoiesis in 
acute radiation sickness.
CONCLUSION: The polyphenol concentrate from Kazakhstan Cabernet Sauvignon 
collection of grapes was proved to be biologically safe and acceptable for use 
as a dietary supplement. The concentrate showed high antioxidant, antiradiation 
activity, and regenerative effect in diabetes, cardiomyopathy, nephropathy, and 
hepatitis in the corresponding organs.

DOI: 10.5195/cajgh.2014.174
PMCID: PMC5960942
PMID: 29805903


992. Aging Cell. 2018 Aug;17(4):e12786. doi: 10.1111/acel.12786. Epub 2018 May
27.

Male lifespan extension with 17-α estradiol is linked to a sex-specific 
metabolomic response modulated by gonadal hormones in mice.

Garratt M(1), Lagerborg KA(2), Tsai YM(1)(3), Galecki A(1)(3), Jain M(2), Miller 
RA(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan.
(2)Departments of Medicine & Pharmacology, University of California San Diego, 
San Diego, California.
(3)University of Michigan Geriatrics Center, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Longevity in mammals is influenced by sex, and lifespan extension in response to 
anti-aging interventions is often sex-specific, although the mechanisms 
underlying these sexual dimorphisms are largely unknown. Treatment of mice with 
17-α estradiol (17aE2) results in sex-specific lifespan extension, with an 
increase in median survival in males of 19% and no survival effect in females. 
Given the links between lifespan extension and metabolism, we performed 
untargeted metabolomics analysis of liver, skeletal muscle and plasma from male 
and female mice treated with 17aE2 for eight months. We find that 17aE2 
generates distinct sex-specific changes in the metabolomic profile of liver and 
plasma. In males, 17aE2 treatment raised the abundance of several amino acids in 
the liver, and this was further associated with elevations in metabolites 
involved in urea cycling, suggesting altered amino acid metabolism. In females, 
amino acids and urea cycling metabolites were unaffected by 17aE2. 17aE2 also 
results in male-specific elevations in a second estrogenic 
steroid-estriol-3-sulfate-suggesting different metabolism of this drug in males 
and females. To understand the underlying endocrine causes for these sexual 
dimorphisms, we castrated males and ovariectomized females prior to 17aE2 
treatment, and found that virtually all the male-specific metabolite responses 
to 17aE2 are inhibited or reduced by male castration. These results suggest 
novel metabolic pathways linked to male-specific lifespan extension and show 
that the male-specific metabolomic response to 17aE2 depends on the production 
of testicular hormones in adult life.

© 2018 The Authors. Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12786
PMCID: PMC6052402
PMID: 29806096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Aging Cell. 2018 Aug;17(4):e12778. doi: 10.1111/acel.12778. Epub 2018 May
28.

Social stress shortens lifespan in mice.

Razzoli M(1), Nyuyki-Dufe K(1), Gurney A(1), Erickson C(1), McCallum J(1), 
Spielman N(1), Marzullo M(1), Patricelli J(1), Kurata M(2), Pope EA(2), Touma 
C(3), Palme R(4), Largaespada DA(2), Allison DB(5), Bartolomucci A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Integrative Biology and Physiology, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota.
(2)Department of Pediatric and Masonic Cancer Center, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota.
(3)Department of Behavioural Biology, University of Osnabrück, Osnabrück, 
Germany.
(4)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Veterinary Medicine, Vienna, 
Austria.
(5)School of Public Health, Indiana University - Bloomington, Bloomington, 
Indiana.

Stress and low socioeconomic status in humans confer increased vulnerability to 
morbidity and mortality. However, this association is not mechanistically 
understood nor has its causation been explored in animal models thus far. 
Recently, cellular senescence has been suggested as a potential mechanism 
linking lifelong stress to age-related diseases and shorter life expectancy in 
humans. Here, we established a causal role for lifelong social stress on 
shortening lifespan and increasing the risk of cardiovascular disease in mice. 
Specifically, we developed a lifelong chronic psychosocial stress model in which 
male mouse aggressive behavior is used to study the impact of negative social 
confrontations on healthspan and lifespan. C57BL/6J mice identified through 
unbiased cluster analysis for receiving high while exhibiting low aggression, or 
identified as subordinate based on an ethologic criterion, had lower median and 
maximal lifespan, and developed earlier onset of several organ pathologies in 
the presence of a cellular senescence signature. Critically, subordinate mice 
developed spontaneous early-stage atherosclerotic lesions of the aortic sinuses 
characterized by significant immune cells infiltration and sporadic rupture and 
calcification, none of which was found in dominant subjects. In conclusion, we 
present here the first rodent model to study and mechanistically dissect the 
impact of chronic stress on lifespan and disease of aging. These data highlight 
a conserved role for social stress and low social status on shortening lifespan 
and increasing the risk of cardiovascular disease in mammals and identify a 
potential mechanistic link for this complex phenomenon.

© 2018 The Authors. Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12778
PMCID: PMC6052478
PMID: 29806171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Rev Med Chil. 2018 Jan;146(1):111-115. doi: 10.4067/s0034-98872018000100111.

[Nephropatic cystinosis: report of one case].

[Article in Spanish]

Krall P(1), Nualart D(1), Grandy J(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Nefrología, Universidad Austral de Chile, Valdivia, Chile.
(2)Unidad de Nefrología, Hospital Exequiel González Cortés, Santiago de Chile, 
Chile.

Nephropatic cystinosis (NC) is a rare disease associated with pathogenic 
variants in the CTNS gene, with a common variant that consists of a 
57kb-deletion involving CTNS. Patients with NC that are treated with cysteamine 
improve their life quality and expectancy. We report a 12-month-old girl with a 
poor growth rate since the 4th month of life. She was admitted to the Hospital 
with acute kidney injury, severe dehydration and metabolic acidosis. She was 
treated with volume restorative and bicarbonate. Proximal tubulopathy and 
Fanconi's syndrome was diagnosed. Medical treatment improved renal function that 
was stabilized in stage 4 chronic kidney disease (CKD). Since infantile NC was 
suspected, CTNS genetic analysis was considered. Genomic DNA was isolated from 
peripheral blood to perform PCR for exons 3-12 in CTNS gene and for the specific 
57kb-deletion PCR. Afterwards, variant segregation analysis was performed in the 
familiar trio. The genetic analysis showed that the patient was homozygous for 
the common 57kb-deletion encompassing CTNS that had been inherited from her 
asymptomatic heterozygous parents. The molecular confirmation allowed genetic 
counselling for parents and facilitated the access to cysteamine. Oral treatment 
with cysteamine resulted in improvement of renal function to CKD stage 3. After 
16 months of treatment the patient shows metabolic stability and mild recovery 
of height. Ophthalmologic follow-up detected ocular cystine crystals 12 months 
after diagnosis, starting cysteamine drops.

DOI: 10.4067/s0034-98872018000100111
PMID: 29806685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Exp Hematol. 2018 Aug;64:12-32. doi: 10.1016/j.exphem.2018.05.004. Epub 2018
May  26.

Hemoglobin disorders: lentiviral gene therapy in the starting blocks to enter 
clinical practice.

Sii-Felice K(1), Giorgi M(1), Leboulch P(2), Payen E(3).

Author information:
(1)UMR E007, Service of Innovative Therapies, Institute of Biology François 
Jacob and University Paris Saclay, CEA Paris Saclay, Fontenay-aux-Roses, France.
(2)UMR E007, Service of Innovative Therapies, Institute of Biology François 
Jacob and University Paris Saclay, CEA Paris Saclay, Fontenay-aux-Roses, France; 
Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; 
Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(3)UMR E007, Service of Innovative Therapies, Institute of Biology François 
Jacob and University Paris Saclay, CEA Paris Saclay, Fontenay-aux-Roses, France; 
INSERM, Paris, France. Electronic address: emmanuel.payen@cea.fr.

The β-hemoglobinopathies, transfusion-dependent β-thalassemia and sickle cell 
disease, are the most prevalent inherited disorders worldwide and affect 
millions of people. Many of these patients have a shortened life expectancy and 
suffer from severe morbidity despite supportive therapies, which impose an 
enormous financial burden to societies. The only available curative therapy is 
allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, although most patients do 
not have an HLA-matched sibling donor, and those who do still risk 
life-threatening complications. Therefore, gene therapy by one-time ex vivo 
modification of hematopoietic stem cells followed by autologous engraftment is 
an attractive new therapeutic modality. The first proof-of-principle of 
conversion to transfusion independence by means of a lentiviral vector 
expressing a marked and anti-sickling βT87Q-globin gene variant was reported a 
decade ago in a patient with transfusion-dependent β-thalassemia. In follow-up 
multicenter Phase II trials with an essentially identical vector (termed 
LentiGlobin BB305) and protocol, 12 of the 13 patients with a non-β0/β0 
genotype, representing more than half of all transfusion-dependent β-thalassemia 
cases worldwide, stopped red blood cell transfusions with total hemoglobin 
levels in blood approaching normal values. Correction of biological markers of 
dyserythropoiesis was achieved in evaluated patients. In nine patients with 
β0/β0 transfusion-dependent β-thalassemia or equivalent severity (βIVS1-110), 
median annualized transfusion volume decreased by 73% and red blood cell 
transfusions were stopped in three patients. Proof-of-principle of therapeutic 
efficacy in the first patient with sickle cell disease was also reported with 
LentiGlobin BB305. Encouraging results were presented in children with 
transfusion-dependent β-thalassemia in another trial with the GLOBE lentiviral 
vector and several other gene therapy trials are currently open for both 
transfusion-dependent β-thalassemia and sickle cell disease. Phase III trials 
are now under way and should help to determine benefit/risk/cost ratios to move 
gene therapy toward clinical practice.

Copyright © 2018 ISEH -- Society for Hematology and Stem Cells. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exphem.2018.05.004
PMID: 29807062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Int J Surg. 2018 Jul;55:139-144. doi: 10.1016/j.ijsu.2018.05.032. Epub 2018
May  26.

Colorectal cancer outcomes in nonagenarian patients: A case series.

Au S(1), Ventham NT(2), Yalamarthi S(3), Manimaran N(4).

Author information:
(1)Core Trainee in Surgery, South East Scotland, UK. Electronic address: 
stephanieau@nhs.net.
(2)Specialty Trainee in General Surgery, South East Scotland, UK. Electronic 
address: nicholas.ventham@ed.ac.uk.
(3)Consultant Colorectal Surgeon, Department of General Surgery, Victoria 
Hospital, Kirkcaldy, Scotland, KY2 5AH, UK. Electronic address: 
satheesh.yalamarthi@nhs.net.
(4)Consultant Colorectal Surgeon, Department of General Surgery, Victoria 
Hospital, Kirkcaldy, Scotland, KY2 5AH, UK. Electronic address: 
natarajan.manimaran@nhs.net.

BACKGROUND: Increased life expectancy and improved medical management of 
co-morbidities has led to an increasing number of nonagenarian patients with 
colorectal cancer being considered for surgical intervention. This study aims to 
describe the morbidity and mortality of nonagenarians who had operative and 
non-operative management for colorectal cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective study of consecutive colorectal cancer 
patients from 2010 to 2016 in a district general hospital in Scotland who were 
90 years old or above was performed. Demographic and perioperative data were 
obtained from case note review. Survival analysis and multivariable regression 
was conducted to determine factors associated with cancer-specific and all-cause 
mortality.
RESULTS: Forty-nine patients were identified; 24 patients underwent operative 
management (median age: 91) while 25 received non-operative management (median 
age: 92). Fifteen patients (62.5%) had an elective operation, and 8 (37.5%) had 
an urgent or emergency procedure. None of the patients treated operatively 
suffered a significant complication or anastomotic leakage. Median hospital stay 
was 14 days. Five patients (20.8%) required a higher level of care in the 
community following discharge. Surgical mortality within 30 days was 4.2%. 
Patients undergoing an elective operation had a significantly improved survival 
compared to those undergoing an emergency operation or non-operative management. 
On multivariable analyses, non-operative management, and presence of metastases 
at diagnosis were associated with higher cancer-specific mortality.
CONCLUSION: Elective operative management for carefully selected nonagenarian 
patients with colorectal cancer is generally acceptable in terms of morbidity 
and mortality. The majority of operatively managed patients returned to the same 
functional level of care following discharge. Patients with metastases at the 
outset and those requiring emergency surgery have a poorer prognosis.

Copyright © 2018 IJS Publishing Group Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijsu.2018.05.032
PMID: 29807168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Dig Dis. 2018;36(4):281-288. doi: 10.1159/000488342. Epub 2018 May 15.

Circulating Biomarkers for Cholangiocarcinoma.

Loosen SH(1), Vucur M(2), Trautwein C(1), Roderburg C(1), Luedde T(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine III, University Hospital RWTH Aachen, Aachen, Germany.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Hepatobiliary Oncology, 
University Hospital RWTH Aachen, Aachen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) represents the second most common primary 
liver malignancy. The incidence rate has constantly increased over the last 
decades and CCA patients face a dismal prognosis with a 5-year survival rate of 
less than 5% for advanced stage of disease. Surgical tumor resection has 
remained the only potentially curative treatment option in daily practice but is 
often not feasible due to advanced disease stage at initial diagnosis.
SUMMARY: The early detection of cholangiocarcinoma is essential to provide 
patients with a potentially curative treatment. Furthermore, prognostic 
biomarkers represent a valuable tool to offer patients a tailored therapeutic 
approach in accordance to their life expectancy. The clinically most established 
biomarker carbohydrate antigen 19-9 shows only a limited diagnostic and 
prognostic power, encouraging the evaluation of novel biomarkers for 
cholangiocarcinoma in the last years. Key Massage: In this review, we assess 
currently available and potential future biomarkers for the diagnosis and 
prognosis of cholangicarcinoma.

© 2018 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000488342
PMID: 29807369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Animal. 2019 Jan;13(1):198-208. doi: 10.1017/S175173111800112X. Epub 2018
May  29.

Impact of longevity on greenhouse gas emissions and profitability of individual 
dairy cows analysed with different system boundaries.

Grandl F(1), Furger M(2), Kreuzer M(1), Zehetmeier M(3).

Author information:
(1)1ETH Zurich,Institute of Agricultural Sciences,Universitaetstrasse 2,8092 
Zurich,Switzerland.
(2)3Agricultural Education and Advisory Centre Plantahof,Kantonsstrasse 17,7302 
Landquart,Switzerland.
(3)4Bavarian State Research Center,Institute for Agricultural 
Economics,Menzinger Straße 54,80638 München,Germany.

Dairy production systems are often criticized as being major emitters of 
greenhouse gases (GHG). In this context, the extension of the length of the 
productive life of dairy cows is gaining interest as a potential GHG mitigation 
option. In the present study, we investigated cow and system GHG emission 
intensity and profitability based on data from 30 dairy cows of different 
productive lifetime fed either no or limited amounts of concentrate. Detailed 
information concerning productivity, feeding and individual enteric methane 
emissions of the individuals was available from a controlled experiment and herd 
book databases. A simplified GHG balance was calculated for each animal based on 
the milk produced at the time of the experiment and for their entire lifetime 
milk production. For the lifetime production, we also included the emissions 
arising from potential beef produced by fattening the offspring of the dairy 
cows. This accounted for the effect that changes in the length of productive 
life will affect the replacement rate and thus the number of calves that can be 
used for beef production. Profitability was assessed by calculating revenues and 
full economic costs for the cows in the data set. Both emission intensity and 
profitability were most favourable in cows with long productive life, whereas 
cows that had not finished their first lactation performed particularly 
unfavourably with regard to their emissions per unit of product and rearing 
costs were mostly not repaid. Including the potential beef production, GHG 
emissions in relation to total production of animal protein also decreased with 
age, but the overall variability was greater, as the individual cow history 
(lifetime milk yield, twin births, stillbirths, etc.) added further sources of 
variation. The present results show that increasing the length of productive 
life of dairy cows is a viable way to reduce the climate impact and to improve 
profitability of dairy production.

DOI: 10.1017/S175173111800112X
PMID: 29807552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Vaccine. 2018 Aug 6;36(32 Pt A):4823-4829. doi:
10.1016/j.vaccine.2018.04.061.  Epub 2018 May 26.

Health and economic benefits of single-dose HPV vaccination in a Gavi-eligible 
country.

Burger EA(1), Campos NG(2), Sy S(2), Regan C(2), Kim JJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Center for Health Decision 
Science, 718 Huntington Ave, 2ndFloor, Boston, MA 02117, USA; University of 
Oslo, Department of Health Management and Health Economics, Postboks 1089, 
Blindern, 0317 Oslo, Norway. Electronic address: eburger@hsph.harvard.edu.
(2)Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Center for Health Decision 
Science, 718 Huntington Ave, 2ndFloor, Boston, MA 02117, USA.

BACKGROUND: Although guidelines for prophylactic human papillomavirus (HPV) 
vaccination recommend two doses for girls ages 9-14 years, several studies have 
demonstrated similar protection with one dose. Our objective was to evaluate the 
long-term health and economic impacts of routine one-dose HPV vaccination 
compared to (1) no vaccination and (2) two-dose HPV vaccination in a low-income 
country.
METHODS: We used a three-tiered hybrid modeling approach that captured HPV 
transmission, cervical carcinogenesis, and population demographics to project 
long-term health and economic outcomes associated with one-dose HPV vaccination 
(assuming 80% efficacy against HPV-16/18 infections under three waning 
scenarios) and two-dose HPV vaccination (assuming 100% efficacy over the 
lifetime) in Uganda. Costs included the vaccine program (dosage and delivery) 
costs over a 10-year period and cervical cancer costs over the lifetimes of the 
current population of Ugandan women. Health outcomes included number of cervical 
cancer cases and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs). Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (i.e., cost per DALY averted) were calculated and 
compared against the Ugandan per-capita gross domestic product.
RESULTS: Routine one-dose HPV vaccination of 9-year-old girls required 
substantial upfront investment but was cost-saving compared to no vaccination 
when accounting for the cost-offsets from future cancers averted. Forty years 
after initiating routine vaccination and depending on assumptions of vaccine 
waning, one-dose HPV vaccination with equivalent coverage (70%) averted 15-16% 
of cervical cancer cases versus 21% with two-dose vaccination but required only 
half the upfront economic investment. Vaccination with two doses had an 
attractive cost-effectiveness profile except if one-dose vaccination enabled 
higher coverage (90% vs. 70%) and did not wane.
CONCLUSIONS: One-dose HPV vaccination resulted in cost-savings compared to no 
vaccination and could be cost-effective compared to two-dose vaccination if 
protection is longstanding and higher coverage can be achieved.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2018.04.061
PMCID: PMC6066173
PMID: 29807710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2018 Sep;44(9):1331-1337. doi:
10.1016/j.ejso.2018.05.010.  Epub 2018 May 16.

What you should know about the low anterior resection syndrome - Clinical 
recommendations from a patient perspective.

van der Heijden JAG(1), Thomas G(2), Caers F(3), van Dijk WA(4), Slooter GD(5), 
Maaskant-Braat AJG(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, Máxima Medical Center, Veldhoven, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: Joost.van.der.Heijden@mmc.nl.
(2)Department of Surgical Oncology, Máxima Medical Center, Veldhoven, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: Gwen.Thomas@mmc.nl.
(3)Department of Surgical Oncology, Máxima Medical Center, Veldhoven, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: Freeke.Caers@mmc.nl.
(4)Department of Surgical Oncology, Máxima Medical Center, Veldhoven, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: Williamvan.Dijk@mmc.nl.
(5)Department of Surgical Oncology, Máxima Medical Center, Veldhoven, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: G.Slooter@mmc.nl.
(6)Department of Surgical Oncology, Máxima Medical Center, Veldhoven, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: sabrina.maaskant@mmc.nl.

INTRODUCTION: Functional bowel complaints, referred to as Low Anterior Resection 
Syndrome (LARS), are common after sphincter-saving surgical procedures and have 
a severe impact on quality of life (QoL). Care for LARS patients is complex and 
surgeons underestimate or misinterpret its associated symptoms. This study aimed 
to explore the impact of LARS from a patient perspective facilitating the 
construction of a set of recommendations improving current care stratagems.
METHODS: In a non-academic Dutch teaching hospital, three focus group sessions 
were conducted with 16 patients (males = 50%) who had undergone colorectal 
surgery between 2012 and 2017. A trained moderator orchestrated 
patient-discussion regarding illness perception and health-care needs. 
Transcripts were analysed using inductive content analysis.
RESULTS: Three themes were identified: illness perception, preoperative care and 
postoperative supportive care. Specific attention and screening for LARS is 
deemed necessary for breaking the taboo surrounding it. Extension of 
preoperative counselling on the normal postoperative course, including ways to 
optimize social support, were identified as crucial. After discharge, patients 
experienced a lack of supportive care regarding functional complaints and did 
not know who to counsel. In addition, they felt intrinsically motivated to 
actively prepare for surgery, i.e. by participating in prehabilitation programs.
CONCLUSION: Exploring perspectives in LARS patients resulted in the 
identification of potential improvements in current care pathways. 
Recommendations on ways to improve information provision, screening of LARS and 
methods to intervene in the gap of supportive care after discharge are 
presented. We recommend to implement these measures as QoL of patients 
undergoing colorectal cancer surgery may be improved.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd, BASO ~ The Association for Cancer Surgery, and 
the European Society of Surgical Oncology. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2018.05.010
PMID: 29807727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Surg Obes Relat Dis. 2018 Sep;14(9):1276-1282. doi:
10.1016/j.soard.2018.04.008.  Epub 2018 Apr 23.

Safety of laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy and Roux-en-Y gastric bypass in 
elderly patients - analysis of the MBSAQIP.

Janik MR(1), Mustafa RR(2), Rogula TG(3), Alhaj Saleh A(4), Abbas M(5), Khaitan 
L(5).

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Cleveland Medical Center / Case Western Reserve 
University School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA; Department of General, 
Oncologic, Metabolic and Thoracic Surgery, Military Institute of Medicine, 
Warszawa, Poland. Electronic address: janiken@gmail.com.
(2)University Hospital Cleveland Medical Center / Case Western Reserve 
University School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA; General Surgery Department, 
Faculty of Medicine, Menoufia University, Al Minufya, Egypt.
(3)University Hospital Cleveland Medical Center / Case Western Reserve 
University School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA; Faculty of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, Jan Kochanowski University, Kielce, Poland.
(4)University Hospital Cleveland Medical Center / Case Western Reserve 
University School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA; Department of Surgery, Texas 
Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX, USA.
(5)University Hospital Cleveland Medical Center / Case Western Reserve 
University School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA.

Comment in
    Surg Obes Relat Dis. 2018 Sep;14(9):1282-1283.

BACKGROUND: An increase in the prevalence of obesity and longer life expectancy 
has resulted in an increased number of candidates over the age of 60 who are 
pursuing a bariatric procedure.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the safety of laparoscopic Roux-Y 
gastric bypass (LRYGB) compared to laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) in 
patients aged 60 years or older.
SETTING: University Hospital, United States METHODS: Preoperative 
characteristics and 30-day outcomes from the MBSAQIP 2015 were selected for all 
patients aged 60 years or older who underwent a LSG or LRYGB. LRYGB cases were 
closely matched (1:1) with LSG patients by age (±1 year), BMI (±1 kg/m2), 
gender, preoperative steroid or immunosuppressant use, preoperative functional 
health status and comorbidities including: diabetes, gastroesophageal reflux 
disease, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, venous stasis, sleep apnea and history of 
severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
RESULTS: A 3371 matched pairs were included in the study. The mean operative 
time in LRYGB was significantly longer in comparison to LSG patients (122 vs 84 
min., P<0.001). Patients after LRYGB had a significantly increased anastomotic 
leakage rate (1.01% vs 0.47 %, p = 0.011), 30-day readmission rate (6.08% vs 
3.74%, p < 0.001) and 30-day reoperation rate (2.49% vs 0.89%, p < 0.001) The 
length of hospital stay was longer in LRYGB. Mortality and bleed rate was 
comparable.
CONCLUSIONS: LRYGB and LSG in patients aged 60 years or older are relatively 
safe in the short term with an acceptable complication rate and low mortality. 
However, LRYGB is more challenging and is associated with significantly 
increased rates of leakage events, 30-day reoperation, 30-day readmission, 
longer operative time and longer hospital stay.

Copyright © 2018 American Society for Bariatric Surgery. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soard.2018.04.008
PMID: 29807868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Nat Plants. 2018 Jun;4(6):365-375. doi: 10.1038/s41477-018-0160-7. Epub 2018
May  28.

KIRA1 and ORESARA1 terminate flower receptivity by promoting cell death in the 
stigma of Arabidopsis.

Gao Z(1)(2)(3), Daneva A(1)(2), Salanenka Y(1)(2)(4), Van Durme M(1)(2), 
Huysmans M(1)(2), Lin Z(1)(2), De Winter F(1)(2), Vanneste S(1)(2)(5), Karimi 
M(1)(2), Van de Velde J(1)(2), Vandepoele K(1)(2), Van de Walle D(6), Dewettinck 
K(6), Lambrecht BN(7)(8)(9), Nowack MK(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, Ghent University, 
Ghent, Belgium.
(2)VIB Center of Plant Systems Biology, Ghent, Belgium.
(3)Haixia Institute of Science and Technology, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry 
University, Fuzhou, China.
(4)Institute of Science and Technology (IST), Klosterneuburg, Austria.
(5)Lab of Plant Growth Analysis, Ghent University Global Campus, Yeonsu-gu, 
Incheon, Republic of Korea.
(6)Laboratory of Food Technology and Engineering, Faculty of Bioscience 
Engineering, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.
(7)VIB Center for Inflammation Research, Ghent, Belgium.
(8)Department of Internal Medicine, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.
(9)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Ersamus MC, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(10)Department of Plant Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, Ghent University, 
Ghent, Belgium. moritz.nowack@vib.be.
(11)VIB Center of Plant Systems Biology, Ghent, Belgium. moritz.nowack@vib.be.

Comment in
    Nat Plants. 2018 Jun;4(6):323-324.

Flowers have a species-specific functional life span that determines the time 
window in which pollination, fertilization and seed set can occur. The stigma 
tissue plays a key role in flower receptivity by intercepting pollen and 
initiating pollen tube growth toward the ovary. In this article, we show that a 
developmentally controlled cell death programme terminates the functional life 
span of stigma cells in Arabidopsis. We identified the leaf senescence regulator 
ORESARA1 (also known as ANAC092) and the previously uncharacterized KIRA1 (also 
known as ANAC074) as partially redundant transcription factors that modulate 
stigma longevity by controlling the expression of programmed cell 
death-associated genes. KIRA1 expression is sufficient to induce cell death and 
terminate floral receptivity, whereas lack of both KIRA1 and ORESARA1 
substantially increases stigma life span. Surprisingly, the extension of stigma 
longevity is accompanied by only a moderate extension of flower receptivity, 
suggesting that additional processes participate in the control of the flower's 
receptive life span.

DOI: 10.1038/s41477-018-0160-7
PMCID: PMC7116356
PMID: 29808023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. J Neurosurg Sci. 2021 Oct;65(5):513-517. doi: 10.23736/S0390-5616.18.04333-3. 
Epub 2018 May 28.

Outcome of elderly patients undergoing intracranial meningioma resection: a 
single-center experience.

Zoia C(1), Bongetta D(1), Guerrini F(2), Alicino C(3)(4), Cattalani A(1), 
Bianchini S(1), Galzio RJ(1), Luzzi S(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Neurosurgery, Department of Clinical-Surgical, Diagnostic and 
Pediatric Sciences, IRCCS San Matteo Polyclinic Foundation, University of Pavia, 
Pavia, Italy.
(2)Unit of Neurosurgery, Department of Clinical-Surgical, Diagnostic and 
Pediatric Sciences, IRCCS San Matteo Polyclinic Foundation, University of Pavia, 
Pavia, Italy - frague21@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Health Sciences, University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy.
(4)Department of Emergency and Organ Transplantation, University Aldo Moro, 
Bari, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Higher life expectancy and higher mean age in general population 
created growing interest in medical and surgical management of meningiomas in 
elderly. It is well known that, due to possible complications, preoperative 
status and comorbidities, especially in aged people, should be carefully 
considered in the decision-making process. We described our experience with this 
kind of patients and analyzed the influence of complications on the outcome.
METHODS: We conducted a monocentric retrospective study to evaluate outcome and 
complications in elderly patients that underwent intracranial meningioma surgery 
in our center in a ten-year period. Between January 2005 and December 2014, 107 
patients - older than 70 years old - were operated for an intracranial 
meningioma. We excluded patients operated for a recurrent meningioma. We used 
the modified Dindo classification to describe complications and the Karnofsky 
Performance Status Scale and Glasgow Outcome Scale to evaluate the outcome at 
discharge and after a 6-month period.
RESULTS: Eighty-four patients did not have postoperative complications, 10 
patients had mild postoperative complications, while 13 patients suffered severe 
postoperative complications. As a group, patients with mild complications 
presented, six months after surgery, an average Karnofsky Performance Status 
better than preoperative one.
CONCLUSIONS: Even though the fragility is considered an important risk factor, 
surgery for symptomatic intracranial meningiomas should be considered also in 
elderly patients. The presence of early postoperative mild complications does 
not seem to worsen the average 6-month-KSP score.

DOI: 10.23736/S0390-5616.18.04333-3
PMID: 29808631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Ann Pharmacother. 2018 Nov;52(11):1098-1108. doi: 10.1177/1060028018778045.
Epub  2018 May 29.

Effect of a Structured Pharmaceutical Care Intervention Versus Usual Care on 
Cardiovascular Risk in HIV Patients on Antiretroviral Therapy: INFAMERICA Study.

Morillo-Verdugo R(1), Robustillo-Cortés MLA(1), Martín-Conde MT(2), 
Callejón-Callejón G(3), Cid-Silva P(4), Moriel-Sánchez C(5), Tortajada-Goitia 
B(6), Almeida-González CV(7).

Author information:
(1)1 Valme Hospital, Seville, Spain.
(2)2 Clinic Hospital, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)3 Nuestra Señora de Candelaria Hospital, Tenerife, Spain.
(4)4 A Coruña Hospital Complex, A Coruña, Spain.
(5)5 Mostoles Hospital, Mostoles, Spain.
(6)6 Costa del Sol Hospital, Marbella, Spain.
(7)7 Seville University, Spain.

BACKGROUND: HIV+ patients have increased their life expectancy with a parallel 
increase in age-associated comorbidities.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the effectiveness of an intensive pharmaceutical care 
follow-up program in comparison to a traditional model among HIV-infected 
patients with moderate/high cardiovascular risk.
METHOD: This was a multicenter, prospective, randomized study of a structured 
health intervention conducted between January-2014 and June-2015 with 12 months 
of follow-up at outpatient pharmacy services. The selected patients were 
randomized to a control group (usual care) or intervention group (intensive 
pharmaceutical care). The interventional program included follow-up of all 
medication taken by the patient to detect and work toward the achievement of 
pharmacotherapeutic objectives related to cardiovascular risk and making 
recommendations for improving diet, exercising, and smoking cessation. 
Individual motivational interview and periodic contact by text messages about 
health promotion were used. The primary end point was the percentage of patients 
who had reduced the cardiovascular risk index, according to the 
Framingham-score.
RESULTS: A total of 53 patients were included. As regards the main variable, 
20.7% of patients reduced their Framingham-score from high/very high to 
moderate/low cardiovascular risk versus 12.5% in the control group ( P=0.016). 
In the intervention group, the number of patients with controlled blood pressure 
increased by 32.1% ( P=0.012); 37.9% of patients overall stopped smoking ( 
P=0.001), and concomitant medication adherence increased by 39.4% at the 48-week 
follow-up ( P=0.002). Conclusion and Relevance: Tailored pharmaceutical care 
based on risk stratification, motivational interviewing, and new technologies 
might lead to improved health outcomes in HIV+ patients at greater 
cardiovascular risk.

DOI: 10.1177/1060028018778045
PMID: 29808711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Ann Intern Med. 2018 Jul 3;169(1):1-9. doi: 10.7326/M17-2561. Epub 2018 May
29.

Identifying Patients for Whom Lung Cancer Screening Is Preference-Sensitive: A 
Microsimulation Study.

Caverly TJ(1), Cao P(2), Hayward RA(1), Meza R(2).

Author information:
(1)VA Center for Clinical Management Research and University of Michigan Medical 
School, Ann Arbor, Michigan (T.J.C., R.A.H.).
(2)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan (P.C., R.M.).

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2018 Jul 3;169(1):52-53.
    Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2018 Sep;7(Suppl 3):S236-S238.
    Ann Intern Med. 2018 Dec 4;169(11):822-823.
    Ann Intern Med. 2018 Dec 4;169(11):823.

BACKGROUND: Many health systems are exploring how to implement low-dose computed 
tomography (LDCT) screening programs that are effective and patient-centered.
OBJECTIVE: To examine factors that influence when LDCT screening is 
preference-sensitive.
DESIGN: State-transition microsimulation model.
DATA SOURCES: Two large randomized trials, published decision analyses, and the 
SEER (Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results) cancer registry.
TARGET POPULATION: U.S.-representative sample of simulated patients meeting 
current U.S. Preventive Services Task Force criteria for screening eligibility.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Individual.
INTERVENTION: LDCT screening annually for 3 years.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Lifetime quality-adjusted life-year gains and reduction in 
lung cancer mortality. To examine the effect of preferences on net benefit, 
disutilities (the "degree of dislike") quantifying the burden of screening and 
follow-up were varied across a likely range. The effect of varying the rate of 
false-positive screening results and overdiagnosis associated with screening was 
also examined.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Moderate differences in preferences about the 
downsides of LDCT screening influenced whether screening was appropriate for 
eligible persons with annual lung cancer risk less than 0.3% or life expectancy 
less than 10.5 years. For higher-risk eligible persons with longer life 
expectancy (roughly 50% of the study population), the benefits of LDCT screening 
overcame even highly negative views about screening and its downsides.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Rates of false-positive findings and 
overdiagnosed lung cancer were not highly influential.
LIMITATION: The quantitative thresholds that were identified may vary depending 
on the structure of the microsimulation model.
CONCLUSION: Identifying circumstances in which LDCT screening is more versus 
less preference-sensitive may help clinicians personalize their screening 
discussions, tailoring to both preferences and clinical benefit.
PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: None.

DOI: 10.7326/M17-2561
PMCID: PMC6033668
PMID: 29809244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. J Org Chem. 2018 Aug 3;83(15):7683-7693. doi: 10.1021/acs.joc.8b00488. Epub
2018  Jun 11.

Synthesis of Bromoundecyl Resorc[4]arenes and Applications of the Cone 
Stereoisomer as Selector for Liquid Chromatography.

Corradi S(1), Mazzoccanti G(1), Ghirga F(2), Quaglio D(1), Nevola L(1)(3), 
Massera C(4), Ugozzoli F(5), Giannini G(6), Ciogli A(1), D'Acquarica I(1).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Chimica e Tecnologie del Farmaco , Sapienza Università di 
Roma , P.le A. Moro 5 , 00185 Roma , Italy.
(2)Center For Life Nano Science@Sapienza , Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia , 
Viale Regina Elena 291 , 00161 Roma , Italy.
(3)IDP Discovery Pharma , 08028 Barcelona , Spain.
(4)Dipartimento di Scienze Chimiche, della Vita e della Sostenibilità Ambientale 
, Università di Parma and INSTM UdR Parma , Parco Area delle Scienze 17/A , 
43124 Parma , Italy.
(5)Dipartimento di Ingegneria e Architettura , Università di Parma , Parco Area 
delle Scienze 181/A , 43124 Parma , Italy.
(6)Corporate R&D, Alfasigma S.p.A. , Via Pontina km 30,400 , 00071 Pomezia , 
Italy.

As an extension of our studies on the multifaceted properties of C-alkylated 
resorc[4]arenes, we planned to immobilize on a solid support resorc[4]arenes 
with C11-long side chains in the lower rim. To this purpose, we synthesized two 
conformationally diverse resorc[4]arenes containing a bromoundecyl moiety in the 
four axial pendants. The cone stereoisomer 6a (30% yield) was selected for the 
reaction with an aminopropylated silica gel (APSG) obtained from spherical 
Kromasil Si 100, 5 μm particles, to give the corresponding immobilized 
SP-C11-resorc[4]arene system. The resulting polar-embedded stationary phase was 
fully characterized and investigated in the HPLC discrimination of the E/ Z 
stereoisomers of naturally occurring and semisynthetic combretastatins, a family 
of ( Z)-stilbene anticancer drugs. The chair stereoisomer 6b (20% yield), when 
submitted to X-ray diffraction analysis, showed a noteworthy self-assembly in 
the crystal lattice, with intercalated hydrophobic and polar layers as a result 
of intermolecular Br···O halogen bond interactions, according to a unique 
stacking motif. The potential and versatility of the SP-C11-resorc[4]arene 
stationary phase were shown as well in the separation of highly polar natural 
products (namely, flavonoids), under reversed-phase (RP) conditions, and of 
fullerenes C60 and C70, by using apolar solvents as mobile phases.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.joc.8b00488
PMID: 29812952


7. Diabetes Technol Ther. 2018 Jul;20(7):492-500. doi: 10.1089/dia.2018.0098.
Epub  2018 May 29.

Telemedicine Cost-Effectiveness for Diabetes Management: A Systematic Review.

Lee JY(1), Lee SWH(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)1 School of Pharmacy, Monash University Malaysia , Bandar Sunway, Malaysia .
(2)2 Asian Centre for Evidence Synthesis in Population, Implementation and 
Clinical Outcomes (PICO), Health and Well-being Cluster, Global Asia in the 21st 
Century (GA21) Platform, Monash University Malaysia , Bandar Sunway, Malaysia .

BACKGROUND: Telemedicine has been utilized increasingly worldwide for diabetes 
management, due to its potential to improve healthcare access and clinical 
outcomes. Few studies have assessed the economic benefits of telemedicine, which 
may contribute to underfunding in potentially important programs. We aim to 
systematically review the literature on economic evaluations of telemedicine in 
diabetes care, assess the quality, and summarize the evidence on driver of 
cost-effectiveness.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A literature search was performed in 10 databases from 
inception until February 2018. All economic evaluations assessing the economic 
evaluation of telemedicine in diabetes were eligible for inclusion. We 
subsequently evaluated the study quality in terms of effectiveness measures, 
cost measure, economic model, as well as time horizon.
RESULTS: Of the 1877 studies identified, 14 articles were included in our final 
review. The healthcare providers' fees are a major predictor for total cost. In 
particular, the use of telemedicine for retinal screening was beneficial and 
cost-effective for diabetes management, with an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio between $113.48/quality-adjusted life year (QALY) and $3,328.46/QALY 
