Autografts (patellar tendon and hamstring tendon) remains the gold standard as 
nearly all synthetic grafts introduced for clinical use have been withdrawn from 
the market. The mechanical strength during the ligamentization of autografts is 
also highlighted in this work.

DOI: 10.1155/2018/4657824
PMCID: PMC5971278
PMID: 29861784


56. Anat Histol Embryol. 2018 Oct;47(5):398-404. doi: 10.1111/ahe.12367. Epub
2018  Jun 3.

Hindlimb bone maturation during postnatal life in the Greater Rhea (Rhea 
americana, Aves, Palaeognathae): Implications for palaeobiological and 
zooarchaeological interpretations.

Picasso MBJ(1)(2), Barbeito CG(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)División Paleontología Vertebrados, Museo de La Plata-Facultad de Ciencias 
Naturales y Museo, Universidad Nacional de La Plata, La Plata, Argentina.
(2)Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET), Buenos 
Aires, Argentina.
(3)Cátedra de Histología y Embriología e Instituto de Patología, Facultad de 
Ciencias Veterinarias, Universidad Nacional de La Plata, La Plata, Argentina.

The objective of this study was to study the morphological pattern of bone 
maturation of the hindlimb bones of Rhea americana and find out how it can 
affect bone morphology after a taphonomic process. Juvenile specimens (n = 10) 
ranging from one month old to eight months old were studied. For comparison, 
bones from adults and juveniles from museum specimens (n = 4 and n = 6, 
respectively) were studied. In fresh bones, ossification centres were identified 
in the proximal and distal epiphyses of the tibiotarsi and in the proximal 
epiphysis of the tarsometatarsi, whereas the distal region of the femora and 
tarsometatarsi showed abundance of cartilage. The development and extension of 
the ossification centres of the tibiotarsi were different. In the proximal 
epiphysis, the centre presented less development with respect to the distal 
epiphysis. In the dry tibiotarsi, the proximal centre was absent and the distal 
one was well preserved. Both the fresh and dry juvenile tarsometatarsi presented 
unfused metatarsals and bulkier and wider aspect than the adult ones. The dry 
femora presented a noticeable excavation between condyles, whereas the dry 
tarsometatarsi showed the absence of the proximal epiphysis. The femora, 
tibiotarsi and tarsometatarsi possessed different traits of immaturity, which 
differentially affect the morphology of the preserved bones during a taphonomic 
process.

© 2018 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/ahe.12367
PMID: 29862544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Fundam Clin Pharmacol. 2018 Dec;32(6):617-626. doi: 10.1111/fcp.12384. Epub
2018  Jun 28.

Role of PPAR-α agonist fenofibrate in the treatment of induced benign prostatic 
hyperplasia with dysplastic changes in rats.

Refaie MMM(1), Rifaai RA(2), Zenhom NM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Minia University, 61511, 
Minia, Egypt.
(2)Department of Histology, Faculty of Medicine, Minia University, 61511, Minia, 
Egypt.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Minia University, Minia, 
Egypt.

Nearly all men who reach average life expectancy have prostate disease. The most 
common is benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Peroxisome proliferator-activated 
receptor alpha (PPARα) had protective effect in different models, but still, 
there are no studies explain its role in BPH. So that we investigated the effect 
of fenofibrate (FEN) on induced BPH by testosterone propionate (TP) (3 mg/kg/day 
for 4 weeks) subcutaneous injection followed by FEN (300 mg/kg/day) was given 
orally for 4 weeks. We measured prostate weights changes, prostatic tissue 
superoxide dismutase (SOD), and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels. Prostate-specific 
antigen (PSA), dihydrotestosterone (DHT), and total antioxidant capacity (TAC) 
in serum were determined. The mRNA gene expressions of proliferating cell 
nuclear antigen (PCNA), PPARα, and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) in prostatic 
tissue were also measured by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. 
In addition, the histopathological changes and activated caspase3 
immunoexpression were evaluated. Our results showed that TP succeeded in 
induction of BPH, which was detected by significant increase in prostate 
weights, prostatic tissue MDA, serum levels of DHT, PSA, and mRNA gene 
expression of PCNA but significant decrease in PPARα and GPx gene expression. 
Moreover, TAC in serum and SOD level in prostate tissue decreased. The 
histopathological examination showed typical changes of BPH with dysplastic 
changes with marked decrease in activated caspase3 immunoexpression indicating 
marked suppression of the apoptotic process. FEN significantly improved all 
disturbed parameters of BPH model. Moreover, there are no dysplastic changes 
with co-administration of FEN to BPH induced group.

© 2018 Société Française de Pharmacologie et de Thérapeutique.

DOI: 10.1111/fcp.12384
PMID: 29862557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Health Technol Assess. 2018 May;22(32):1-274. doi: 10.3310/hta22320.

The future for diagnostic tests of acute kidney injury in critical care: 
evidence synthesis, care pathway analysis and research prioritisation.

Hall PS(1), Mitchell ED(2), Smith AF(2)(3), Cairns DA(4), Messenger M(3), 
Hutchinson M(4), Wright J(2), Vinall-Collier K(2), Corps C(5), Hamilton P(6), 
Meads D(2), Lewington A(5).

Author information:
(1)Edinburgh Cancer Research Centre, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(2)Academy of Primary Care, Hull York Medical School, Hull, UK.
(3)National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Diagnostic Evidence 
Co-operative Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(4)Leeds Institute of Clinical Trials Research, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(5)Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, Leeds, UK.
(6)Manchester Institute of Nephrology and Transplantation, Central Manchester 
University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK.

Comment in
    BMJ Evid Based Med. 2019 Oct;24(5):e9.

BACKGROUND: Acute kidney injury (AKI) is highly prevalent in hospital inpatient 
populations, leading to significant mortality and morbidity, reduced quality of 
life and high short- and long-term health-care costs for the NHS. New diagnostic 
tests may offer an earlier diagnosis or improved care, but evidence of benefit 
to patients and of value to the NHS is required before national adoption.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the potential for AKI in vitro diagnostic tests to 
enhance the NHS care of patients admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and 
identify an efficient supporting research strategy.
DATA SOURCES: We searched ClinicalTrials.gov, The Cochrane Library databases, 
Embase, Health Management Information Consortium, International Clinical Trials 
Registry Platform, MEDLINE, metaRegister of Current Controlled Trials, PubMed 
and Web of Science databases from their inception dates until September 2014 
(review 1), November 2015 (review 2) and July 2015 (economic model). Details of 
databases used for each review and coverage dates are listed in the main report.
REVIEW METHODS: The AKI-Diagnostics project included horizon scanning, 
systematic reviewing, meta-analysis of sensitivity and specificity, appraisal of 
analytical validity, care pathway analysis, model-based lifetime economic 
evaluation from a UK NHS perspective and value of information (VOI) analysis.
RESULTS: The horizon-scanning search identified 152 potential tests and 
biomarkers. Three tests, Nephrocheck® (Astute Medical, Inc., San Diego, CA, 
USA), NGAL and cystatin C, were subjected to detailed review. The meta-analysis 
was limited by variable reporting standards, study quality and heterogeneity, 
but sensitivity was between 0.54 and 0.92 and specificity was between 0.49 and 
0.95 depending on the test. A bespoke critical appraisal framework demonstrated 
that analytical validity was also poorly reported in many instances. In the 
economic model the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios ranged from £11,476 to 
£19,324 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY), with a probability of 
cost-effectiveness between 48% and 54% when tests were compared with current 
standard care.
LIMITATIONS: The major limitation in the evidence on tests was the heterogeneity 
between studies in the definitions of AKI and the timing of testing.
CONCLUSIONS: Diagnostic tests for AKI in the ICU offer the potential to improve 
patient care and add value to the NHS, but cost-effectiveness remains highly 
uncertain. Further research should focus on the mechanisms by which a new test 
might change current care processes in the ICU and the subsequent cost and QALY 
implications. The VOI analysis suggested that further observational research to 
better define the prevalence of AKI developing in the ICU would be worthwhile. A 
formal randomised controlled trial of biomarker use linked to a standardised AKI 
care pathway is necessary to provide definitive evidence on whether or not 
adoption of tests by the NHS would be of value.
STUDY REGISTRATION: The systematic review within this study is registered as 
PROSPERO CRD42014013919.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta22320
PMCID: PMC6004543
PMID: 29862965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Andrew Lewington has received honoraria from 
Alere, Inc. David Meads is a member of the Health Technology Assessment 
programme Emergency and Hospital Care panel. Patrick Hamilton has received 
funding from ChemoCentryx, Inc., outside this work.


59. Ann Gastroenterol Surg. 2017 Sep 19;2(1):72-78. doi: 10.1002/ags3.12037. 
eCollection 2018 Jan.

Long-term impact of postoperative pneumonia after curative gastrectomy for 
elderly gastric cancer patients.

Suzuki S(1), Kanaji S(1), Matsuda Y(1), Yamamoto M(1), Hasegawa H(1), Yamashita 
K(1), Oshikiri T(1), Matsuda T(1), Sumi Y(1), Nakamura T(1), Kakeji Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastrointestinal Surgery Department of Surgery Graduate School of 
Medicine Kobe University Kobe Hyogo Japan.

With the extension of life expectancy, cancer has been increasing in elderly 
populations. Postoperative pneumonia can negatively influence immediate 
mortality following gastrectomy for elderly patients, but its impact on 
long-term survival remains unclear. We retrospectively reviewed the cases of 
patients aged ≥75 years who underwent curative gastrectomy for gastric cancer 
from 2000 to 2014 to determine the long-term effects of postoperative pneumonia 
and to identify independent risk factors along with physical status and surgical 
procedure. Of 250 patients, 32 (12.8%) developed postoperative pneumonia. 
Patients with postoperative pneumonia had significantly worse overall survival 
(OS) than those without postoperative pneumonia (P<.001). A multivariate 
analysis identified postoperative pneumonia as a prognostic factor for OS 
(hazard ratio, 2.06; 95% CI, 1.05-3.75; P=.036). Significant risk factors for 
the development of postoperative pneumonia were male gender (P=.026) and D2 
lymphadenectomy (P<.001). D2 lymphadenectomy was associated with poorer OS than 
D1 or D1+lymphadenectomy in patients with an American Society of 
Anesthesiologists (ASA) score 3 (P=.026), but did not influence OS negatively in 
patients with an ASA score ≤2. Limited lymphadenectomy did not affect the 
cancer-specific survival of elderly patients with ASA score 3. Postoperative 
pneumonia following gastrectomy has an adverse impact on the long-term survival 
of elderly gastric cancer patients. A limited lymphadenectomy during curative 
resection should be considered to prevent postoperative pneumonia in frail 
elderly patients with ASA score 3. Postoperative pneumonia following gastrectomy 
has an adverse impact on the long-term survival of elderly gastric cancer 
patients. Extent of lymph node dissection during curative resection should be 
limited to prevent postoperative pneumonia, based on the patient's frailty.

DOI: 10.1002/ags3.12037
PMCID: PMC5881363
PMID: 29863154


60. South Med J. 2018 Jun;111(6):355-358. doi: 10.14423/SMJ.0000000000000819.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Early vs Late Diagnosis of HIV-Infected Patients 
in South Carolina.

Rampaul M(1), Edun B(1), Gaskin M(1), Albrecht H(1), Weissman S(1).

Author information:
(1)From the University of South Carolina-Palmetto Health Richland, Columbia, and 
South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, Columbia.

OBJECTIVES: It is anticipated that early diagnosis, linkage to care, initiation 
of antiretroviral therapy (ART), and retention in care would lead to reduced 
opportunistic infections, reduction in human immunodeficiency virus-related 
morbidity and mortality and reduced rates of HIV transmission. This would be 
expected to lead to a reduction in the lifetime cost of care (LCC). This study 
analyzed existing data to determine to what extent early-versus-late HIV 
diagnosis affects LCC.
METHODS: The South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control 
electronic HIV/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome reporting system data were 
used for this study. The first CD4 and viral load reported to the Enhanced 
HIV/AIDS Reporting System of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are 
considered the initial CD4 and viral load. Late HIV diagnosis was based on a CD4 
count ≤200 at diagnosis. A previously validated simulation model developed by 
the John Snow Institute for the South Carolina Department of Health and 
Environmental Control was used to determine the discounted LCC. Comparisons were 
made between late and early HIV diagnosis.
RESULTS: From 2013 through 2015, 2138 individuals were diagnosed as having HIV 
in South Carolina; 180 individuals were excluded from further analysis because 
an initial CD4 count was missing. Final analysis was based on 1958 individuals. 
Late HIV diagnosis occurred in 509 individuals (26%). When stratified based on 
CD4 count at diagnosis, the discounted LCC per person in those with an initial 
CD4 count ≤200 was $262,374 and in those with an initial CD4 count >500 was 
$416,766. Those with lower CD4 counts at diagnosis had more lost 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs; 7.95 QALYs lost per person with an initial 
CD4 count ≤200 compared with 4.45 QALYs lost per person with an initial CD4 
count >500), more lifetime HIV transmissions (1.4 per person with an initial CD4 
count ≤200 compared with 0.72 per person with an initial CD4 count >500), and 
lower additional life expectancy (30.73 additional years with an initial CD4 
count ≤200 compared with 38.08 additional years with an initial CD4 count >500).
CONCLUSIONS: Although individuals with lower CD4 counts at diagnosis had a lower 
discounted LCC, they had more lost QALYs, more lifetime HIV transmissions, and 
lower additional life expectancy.

DOI: 10.14423/SMJ.0000000000000819
PMID: 29863227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2018 Jun 4;12(6):e0006559. doi: 
10.1371/journal.pntd.0006559. eCollection 2018 Jun.

The burden of Neglected Tropical Diseases in Brazil, 1990-2016: A subnational 
analysis from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2016.

Martins-Melo FR(1)(2), Carneiro M(3), Ramos AN Jr(4), Heukelbach J(4), Ribeiro 
ALP(5), Werneck GL(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Federal Institute of Education, Science and Technology of Ceará, Caucaia, 
Ceará, Brazil.
(2)Institute of Studies in Public Health, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, 
Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Parasitologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade 
Federal de Minas Gerais.
(4)Department of Community Health, School of Medicine, Federal University of 
Ceará, Fortaleza, Ceará, Brazil.
(5)Hospital das Clínicas and School of Medicine, Universidade Federal de Minas 
Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
(6)Department of Epidemiology, Social Medicine Institute, State University of 
Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs) are important causes of 
morbidity, disability, and mortality among poor and vulnerable populations in 
several countries worldwide, including Brazil. We present the burden of NTDs in 
Brazil from 1990 to 2016 based on findings from the Global Burden of Diseases, 
Injuries, and Risk Factors Study 2016 (GBD 2016).
METHODOLOGY: We extracted data from GBD 2016 to assess years of life lost 
(YLLs), years lived with disability (YLDs), and disability-adjusted life-years 
(DALYs) for NTDs by sex, age group, causes, and Brazilian states, from 1990 to 
2016. We included all NTDs that were part of the priority list of the World 
Health Organization (WHO) in 2016 and that are endemic/autochthonous in Brazil. 
YLDs were calculated by multiplying the prevalence of sequelae multiplied by its 
disability weight. YLLs were estimated by multiplying each death by the 
reference life expectancy at each age. DALYs were computed as the sum of YLDs 
and YLLs.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In 2016, there were 475,410 DALYs (95% uncertainty interval 
[UI]: 337,334-679,482; age-standardized rate of 232.0 DALYs/100,000 population) 
from the 12 selected NTDs, accounting for 0.8% of national all-cause DALYs. 
Chagas disease was the leading cause of DALYs among all NTDs, followed by 
schistosomiasis and dengue. The sex-age-specific NTD burden was higher among 
males and in the youngest and eldest (children <1 year and those aged ≥70 
years). The highest age-standardized DALY rates due to all NTDs combined at the 
state level were observed in Goiás (614.4 DALYs/100,000), Minas Gerais (433.7 
DALYs/100,000), and Distrito Federal (430.0 DALYs/100,000). Between 1990 and 
2016, the national age-standardized DALY rates from all NTDs decreased by 45.7%, 
with different patterns among NTD causes and Brazilian states. Most NTDs 
decreased in the period, with more pronounced reduction in DALY rates for 
onchocerciasis, lymphatic filariasis, and rabies. By contrast, age-standardized 
DALY rates due to dengue, visceral leishmaniasis, and trichuriasis increased 
substantially. Age-standardized DALY rates decreased for most Brazilian states, 
increasing only in the states of Amapá, Ceará, Rio Grande do Norte, and Sergipe.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: GBD 2016 findings show that, despite the reduction in 
disease burden, NTDs are still important and preventable causes of disability 
and premature death in Brazil. The data call for renewed and comprehensive 
efforts to control and prevent the NTD burden in Brazil through 
evidence-informed and efficient and affordable interventions. Multi-sectoral and 
integrated control and surveillance measures should be prioritized, considering 
the population groups and geographic areas with the greatest morbidity, 
disability, and most premature deaths due to NTDs in the country.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0006559
PMCID: PMC6013251
PMID: 29864133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


62. PLoS One. 2018 Jun 4;13(6):e0198485. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0198485. 
eCollection 2018.

Adequate life-expectancy reconstruction for adult human mortality data.

Németh L(1)(2), Missov TI(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Survival and Longevity, Max Planck Institute for Demographic 
Research, Rostock, Germany.
(2)Hungarian Demographic Research Institute, Budapest, Hungary.

Mortality information of populations is aggregated in life tables that serve as 
a basis for calculation of life expectancy and various life disparity measures. 
Conventional life-table methods address right-censoring inadequately by assuming 
a constant hazard in the last open-ended age group. As a result, life expectancy 
can be substantially distorted, especially in the case when the last age group 
in a life table contains a large proportion of the population. Previous research 
suggests addressing censoring in a gamma-Gompertz-Makeham model setting as this 
framework incorporates all major features of adult mortality. In this article, 
we quantify the difference between gamma-Gompertz-Makeham life expectancy values 
and those published in the largest publicly available high-quality life-table 
databases for human populations, drawing attention to populations for which life 
expectancy values should be reconsidered. We also advocate the use of 
gamma-Gompertz-Makeham life expectancy for three reasons. First, model-based 
life-expectancy calculation successfully handles the problem of data quality or 
availability, resulting in severe censoring due to the unification of a 
substantial number of deaths in the last open-end age group. Second, model-based 
life expectancies are preferable in the case of data scarcity, i.e. when data 
contain numerous age groups with zero death counts: here, we provide an example 
of hunter-gatherer populations. Third, gamma-Gompertz-Makeham-based life 
expectancy values are almost identical to the ones provided by the major 
high-quality human mortality databases that use more complicated procedures. 
Applying a gamma-Gompertz-Makeham model to adult mortality data can be used to 
revise life-expectancy trends for historical populations that usually serve as 
input for mortality forecasts.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0198485
PMCID: PMC5986123
PMID: 29864166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


63. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2018 Dec;33(12):2029-2036. doi: 10.1111/jgh.14301.
Epub  2018 Jun 25.

Cost-effectiveness of generic pan-genotypic sofosbuvir/velpatasvir versus 
genotype-dependent direct-acting antivirals for hepatitis C treatment.

Goel A(1), Chen Q(2)(3)(4), Chhatwal J(3)(4), Aggarwal R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of 
Medical Sciences, Lucknow, India.
(2)Harold and Inge Marcus Department of Industrial and Manufacturing 
Engineering, Penn State University, State College, Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)Massachusetts General Hospital Institute for Technology Assessment, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Treatment of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection with low-cost 
generic direct-acting antivirals (DAAs) available in India and other developing 
countries needs determination of HCV genotype ("genotype-dependent" regimens). 
Generic velpatasvir, a DAA that obviates the need for genotype determination 
("pan-genotypic" regimen), recently became available but is costlier. The aim of 
this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of genotype-dependent versus 
pan-genotypic DAA treatments in India.
METHODS: A previously validated microsimulation model, adapted to Indian 
population, was used to compare the costs and long-term outcomes of three 
scenarios: no treatment, treatment with genotype-dependent regimens, and 
treatment with pan-genotypic regimen. Input parameters were derived from 
literature. Using a payer's perspective and lifetime time horizon, 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), total costs, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio were calculated. Both deterministic and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses were also conducted.
RESULTS: At the current price ($US223 for 4 weeks), pan-genotypic regimen was 
cost-saving compared with no treatment. Compared with genotype-dependent 
regimens, it increased QALYs by 0.92 and increased costs by $US107 but was 
deemed cost-effective with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $US242 per 
QALY gained. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis also supported the 
cost-effectiveness of pan-genotypic regimen. At the reduced price of $US188 for 
4 weeks, the pan-genotypic regimen will become cost-neutral to 
genotype-dependent regimens (current price: $US100 for 4 weeks).
CONCLUSIONS: At current prices, velpatasvir-based pan-genotypic regimen is 
cost-effective for HCV treatment in India where generic drugs are available. A 
reduction in the prices of pan-genotypic regimen has the potential to make its 
use cost-saving while simplifying treatment in community-level programs aimed at 
HCV elimination.

© 2018 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and John Wiley & 
Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.14301
PMID: 29864213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Clin Biomech (Bristol, Avon). 2018 Aug;57:1-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.clinbiomech.2018.05.010. Epub 2018 May 22.

Differences in neck surface electromyography, kinematics and pain occurrence 
during physiological neck movements between neck pain and asymptomatic 
participants. A cross-sectional study.

Lascurain-Aguirrebeña I(1), Newham DJ(2), Galarraga-Gallastegui B(3), Critchley 
DJ(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Population Sciences and Health Services Research, Faculty of Life 
Sciences & Medicine, King's College London, London SE1 1UL, United Kingdom; 
Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine & Odontology, University of the 
Basque Country, Leioa 48940, Spain. Electronic address: ion.lascurain@ehu.eus.
(2)Centre of Human & Aerospace Physiological Sciences, Faculty of Life Sciences 
& Medicine, King's College London, London SE1 1UL, United Kingdom. Electronic 
address: di.newham@kcl.ac.uk.
(3)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine & Odontology, University of the 
Basque Country, Leioa 48940, Spain. Electronic address: 
bgalarraga.bil@quironsalud.es.
(4)School of Population Sciences and Health Services Research, Faculty of Life 
Sciences & Medicine, King's College London, London SE1 1UL, United Kingdom. 
Electronic address: duncan.critchley@kcl.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Neck pain has been associated with altered muscle activity and 
impaired kinematics. Patients frequently report pain during physiological neck 
movements. Previously, the average muscle activity during these movements has 
been measured. However, muscle activity is modulated by the position in the 
range of movement, hence the study of neck muscle activity in discrete sections 
of the range of movement is warranted. Evidence is conflicting regarding range 
of movement restriction in neck pain. No study has assessed the point in the 
range of movement at which pain occurs. This study aimed to investigate neck 
kinematics, muscle activity and pain during physiological neck movements in 
participants with and without neck pain.
METHODS: Neck kinematics and surface electromyography were recorded continuously 
and analysed in 10° increments during forward and side flexion, extension and 
rotation of the neck in 20 neck pain and 20 asymptomatic participants. Point of 
pain occurrence in the range of movement was recorded.
FINDINGS: Neck pain participants demonstrated significantly lower activity of 
scalene during flexion and extension, and a non-significant higher activity in 
sternocleidomastoids during rotation. No differences in neck kinematics were 
observed. 65% of neck pain participants reported pain during at least one neck 
movement. Pain was reported in the last ≈20-40% of the range of movement.
INTERPRETATION: Exercises used in current practice to minimise scalene activity 
may not be appropriate for all neck pain patients. Restricted range of movement 
is not a consistent feature of neck pain. Movement associated neck pain is 
present at the end of range of movement, which has implications for the study of 
neck pain and rehabilitation.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiomech.2018.05.010
PMID: 29864606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Meat Sci. 2018 Nov;145:40-50. doi: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2018.05.018. Epub 2018
May  24.

Long-term effects of castration, chronic intermittent social stress, provision 
of grass silage and their interactions on performance and meat and adipose 
tissue properties in growing-finishing pigs.

Holinger M(1), Früh B(2), Stoll P(3), Pedan V(4), Kreuzer M(1), Bérard J(5), 
Hillmann E(1).

Author information:
(1)ETH Zurich, Institute of Agricultural Sciences, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)FiBL Research Institute of Organic Agriculture, Department of Extension, 
Training and Communication, 5070 Frick, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
barbara.frueh@fibl.org.
(3)Agroscope, Institute for Livestock Sciences, 1725 Posieux, Switzerland.
(4)Zurich University of Applied Sciences, Life Sciences and Facility Management, 
8820 Wädenswil, Switzerland.
(5)ETH Zurich, Institute of Agricultural Sciences, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland; ETH 
Zurich, AgroVet-Strickhof, 8315 Lindau, Switzerland.

In order to assess chronic stress in entire and castrated male pigs and to 
describe effects of a provision of grass silage in those pigs, a 2 × 2 × 2 
factorial experiment comprising the factors castration, chronic intermittent 
social stress and provision of grass silage was carried out with 147 
growing-finishing pigs from 25.6 to 102.1 kg body weight. The experimental 
design allowed investigating interactions between the three factors, but only 
few were statistically significant. Stress exposure consisted of repeated 
short-term confrontations with unfamiliar pigs and short-term separations. 
Carcasses of stress-exposed pigs had thicker backfat, lower lean meat percentage 
and a different fatty acids composition of the adipose tissue. While entire 
males differed strongly from castrates in performance, carcass characteristics 
and adipose tissue properties, we found no evidence for an increased level of 
chronic stress in entire males compared to castrates. Provision of grass silage 
increased stomach weight and reduced dressing percentage, but did not impair 
performance, adipose tissue properties or meat quality.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2018.05.018
PMID: 29864654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Health Place. 2018 Jul;52:85-100. doi: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2018.04.003.
Epub  2018 Jun 1.

Trends in the contribution of major causes of death to the black-white life 
expectancy gap by US state.

Riddell CA(1), Morrison KT(2), Kaufman JS(2), Harper S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics&Occupational Health, McGill 
University, 1020 Pine Avenue West, Room 27, Montreal, QC, Canada H3A 1A2. 
Electronic address: corinne.riddell@mail.mcgill.ca.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics&Occupational Health, McGill 
University, 1020 Pine Avenue West, Room 27, Montreal, QC, Canada H3A 1A2.

Life expectancy has increased in the United States over many decades. The 
difference in life expectancy between black and white Americans has also 
decreased, but some states have made much more progress towards racial equality 
than others. This paper describes the pattern of contributions of six major 
causes of death to the black-white life expectancy gap within US states and the 
District of Columbia between 1969 and 2013, and identifies states diverging from 
the overall pattern. Across multiple causes, the District of Columbia, Illinois, 
Wisconsin, and Michigan had the highest contributions to black-white inequality, 
while New York, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island had the lowest contributions and 
have either achieved or are the closest to achieving black-white equality in 
life expectancy.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2018.04.003
PMID: 29864731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Psychiatr Danub. 2018 Jun;30(Suppl 4):152-157.

Schizophrenia and Physical Comorbidity.

Šimunović Filipčić I(1), Filipčić I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Medicine, University Hospital Center Zagreb, 
Kišpatićeva 12, HR 10 000 Zagreb, Croatia, ivonasf@gmail.com.

Schizophrenia is a severe psychiatric disorder increasingly recognized as a 
systemic disorder. In addition to the burden and suffering caused by the mental 
illness itself, individuals with schizophrenia have a high risk for physical 
illnesses. The life expectancy gap remains 13 to 30 years wider in people with 
schizophrenia compared to the general population. This premature mortality is 
caused largely by deaths due to cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes 
mellitus, and other natural causes, poor diagnosis and treatment, and 
insufficient prevention of modifiable risk factors. Although the links between 
schizophrenia and physical illnesses are well established, in clinical practice, 
physical illnesses in patients with schizophrenia are often overlooked, and the 
mortality gap between general population and people with schizophrenia continues 
to widen. The physical health of people with schizophrenia is commonly 
self-neglected but also ignored by people around them and by health systems, 
resulting in significant physical health disparities and limited access to 
health services. The root of the problem of insufficient healthcare appear to 
lie in interrelated contributory factors from illness, patients, and medical and 
mental healthcare system. Furthermore, a growing body of literature has been 
indicating the effect of the chronic physical illness on the treatment outcome 
of psychosis. Premature mortality and disability could be reduced if there was a 
greater focus on the implementation of strategies that effectively prevent 
modifiable risk factors from the first psychotic episode and enhance early 
recognition of physical illnesses, reduce the burden of physical comorbidity and 
lead to improved health outcomes. Ultimately, to improve treatment outcome and 
to reduce the suffering of people with schizophrenia, it is crucial to treat 
physical comorbidity promptly and assertively from the appearance of the first 
symptoms of the psychotic disorder. The integrative approach and collaborative 
care within all levels of healthcare providers should be the imperative in 
clinical practice.

PMID: 29864751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2018 Jun 5;16(1):116. doi:
10.1186/s12955-018-0945-4.

Valuation of preference-based measures: can existing preference data be used to 
generate better estimates?

Kharroubi SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Food Sciences, Faculty of Agricultural and Food 
Sciences, American University of Beirut, Beirut, Lebanon. sk157@aub.edu.lb.

BACKGROUND: Experimental studies to develop valuations of health state 
descriptive systems like EQ-5D or SF-6D need to be conducted in different 
countries, because social and cultural differences are likely to lead to 
systematically different valuations. There is a scope utilize the evidence in 
one country to help with the design and the analysis of a study in another, for 
this to enable the generation of utility estimates of the second country much 
more precisely than would have been possible when collecting and analyzing the 
country's data alone.
METHODS: We analyze SF-6D valuation data elicited from representative samples 
corresponding to the Hong Kong (HK) and United Kingdom (UK) general adult 
populations through the use of the standard gamble technique to value 197 and 
249 health states respectively. We apply a nonparametric Bayesian model to 
estimate a HK value set using the UK dataset as informative prior to improve its 
estimation. Estimates are compared to a HK value set estimated using HK values 
alone using mean predictions and root mean square error.
RESULTS: The novel method of modelling utility functions permitted the UK 
valuations to contribute significant prior information to the Hong Kong 
analysis. The results suggest that using HK data alongside the existing UK data 
produces HK utility estimates better than using the HK study data by itself.
CONCLUSION: The promising results suggest that existing preference data could be 
combined with valuation study in a new country to generate preference weights, 
making own country value sets more achievable for low and middle income 
countries. Further research is encouraged.

DOI: 10.1186/s12955-018-0945-4
PMCID: PMC5987483
PMID: 29866108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: AUTHORS’ INFORMATION: SAK is an associate 
professor in Biostatistics based in the Department of Nutrition and Food 
Sciences at the American University of Beirut. SAK’s research is in the theory 
and applications of Bayesian statistics. His main area of research and 
consulting activity is in the theory of inference, computational aspects of 
Bayesian statistics and in Bayesian modelling generally. He has been involved in 
many application areas, particularly in medicine and Health Economics. ETHICS 
APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Secondary publicly available data were used 
in this study. COMPETING INTERESTS: The author declares that he has no competing 
interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to 
jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


69. Soc Sci Med. 2019 May;229:106-116. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2018.05.047. Epub
 2018 May 26.

Physical and mental health of Chinese grandparents caring for grandchildren and 
great-grandparents.

Xu H(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social Research, University of Michigan, 426 Thompson St, ISR 
2459, Ann Arbor, MI 48104-2321, United States. Electronic address: 
xuhongw@umich.edu.

The increasing worldwide prevalence and intensity of grandparenting has 
attracted an attention to its health implications for caregivers against the 
backdrop of population aging. Thanks to prolonged life expectancy and reduced 
infant mortality, extended families that comprise four generations, 
co-residential or not, are no longer rare in China. The current study examines 
health consequences when Chinese grandparents provide care to not only 
grandchildren but also their own elderly parents or parents-in-law (i.e., 
great-grandparents). Drawing on data from the 2011-2013 China Health and 
Retirement Longitudinal Study (CHARLS), mental health was captured by levels of 
life satisfaction and depressive symptoms, and physical health was measured by 
levels of high sensitivity C-reactive protein (CRP), hypertension, high-risk 
pulse rate, and diabetes. Overall grandparents who cared for grandchildren only 
had better mental and physical health, compared with non-caregivers. There was 
some evidence that the 'sandwich' grandparents who cared for both grandchildren 
and great-grandparents reported greater life satisfaction, fewer depressive 
symptoms, and reduced hypertension compared with non-caregivers. The health 
advantage of caregiving was most pronounced in urban grandfathers whose 
caregiving conformed to the norm of filial piety and who did so most likely to 
seek emotional reward instead of an intergenerational time-for-money exchange. 
In contrast, rural grandmothers were the most vulnerable group and their health 
disadvantage seemed to arise from caring for great-grandparents. These findings 
highlight the importance of rural-urban context and gender role in studying the 
health effects of intergenerational caregiving on Chinese grandparents.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2018.05.047
PMCID: PMC6261790
PMID: 29866373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Eur J Ageing. 2017 Oct 25;15(2):155-164. doi: 10.1007/s10433-017-0442-3. 
eCollection 2018 Jun.

Subjective life expectancy and actual mortality: results of a 10-year panel 
study among older workers.

van Solinge H(1)(2), Henkens K(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Work and Retirement, Netherlands Interdisciplinary Demographic 
Institute (NIDI), The Hague, Netherlands.
(2)2Department of Health Sciences, University Medical Centre Groningen, 
Groningen, Netherlands.
(3)3Department of Sociology, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands.

This research examined the judgemental process underlying subjective life 
expectancy (SLE) and the predictive value of SLE on actual mortality in older 
adults in the Netherlands. We integrated theoretical insights from life 
satisfaction research with existing models of SLE. Our model differentiates 
between bottom-up (objective data of any type) and top-down factors 
(psychological variables). The study used data from the first wave of the 
Netherlands Interdisciplinary Demographic Institute Work and Retirement Panel. 
This is a prospective cohort study among Dutch older workers. The analytical 
sample included 2278 individuals, assessed at age 50-64 in 2001, with vital 
statistics tracked through 2011. We used a linear regression model to estimate 
the impact of bottom-up and top-down factors on SLE. Cox proportional hazard 
regression was used to determine the impact of SLE on the timing of mortality, 
crude and adjusted for actuarial correlates of general life expectancy, family 
history, health and trait-like dispositions. Results reveal that psychological 
variables play a role in the formation of SLE. Further, the results indicate 
that SLE predicts actual mortality, crude and adjusted for socio-demographic, 
biomedical and psychological confounders. Education has an additional effect on 
mortality. Those with higher educational attainment were less likely to die 
within the follow-up period. This SES gradient in mortality was not captured in 
SLE. The findings indicate that SLE is an independent predictor of mortality in 
a pre-retirement cohort in the Netherlands. SLE does not fully capture 
educational differences in mortality. Particularly, higher-educated individuals 
underestimate their life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-017-0442-3
PMCID: PMC5971026
PMID: 29867300


71. Eur J Ageing. 2017 Jul 8;15(2):165-173. doi: 10.1007/s10433-017-0438-z. 
eCollection 2018 Jun.

What is the duration of life expectancy in the state of frailty? Estimates in 
the SIPAF study.

Herr M(1)(2), Arvieu JJ(3), Ankri J(1)(2), Robine JM(4).

Author information:
(1)1INSERM UMR 1168: Aging and chronic diseases. Epidemiological and public 
health approaches, Université Versailles St-Quentin-en-Yvelines, Villejuif, 
Montigny-le-Bretonneux, France.
(2)2Département Hospitalier d'Epidémiologie et de Santé Publique, Hôpitaux 
Universitaires Paris Ile-de-France Ouest, site Sainte-Périne, Assistance 
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, 11, rue chardon Lagache, 76016 Paris, France.
(3)AG2R La Mondiale, Direction des Etudes, Prévoyance Individuelle et IARD, 
Paris, France.
(4)4INSERM U988 et U1198, EPHE, Paris, Montpellier, France.

The screening of frailty can trigger interventions aiming to delay disability in 
older people. Whereas the prevalence, the consequences, and the factors 
associated with frailty are well described, little is known about the duration 
of the state of frailty. This study aimed to estimate the time spent in the 
state of frailty in men and women using the Sullivan method. Data used were the 
age- and sex-specific prevalence of frailty found in SIPAF study ("Système 
d'Information sur la Perte d'Autonomie Fonctionnelle de la personne âgée") and 
statistics of mortality from the Human Mortality Database. The SIPAF study 
included 2350 individuals aged 70 and over and living in France. Participants 
were interviewed at home by trained nurses. Frailty was defined as impairment in 
three domains or more among nutrition, energy, physical activity, strength, and 
mobility. People requiring assistance in basic activities of daily living were 
considered in a separate category. Mean age of the study sample was 
83.3 ± 7.5 years, with 59.4% of women. Overall, the prevalence of pre-frailty, 
frailty, and dependency was 39.1, 17.0, and 15.4%, respectively. Life expectancy 
at age 70 was 18.3 years for women, of which 7.4 years (95% CI 6.9-7.9) were 
pre-frail, 3.4 years (95% CI 3.0-3.8) frail, and 2.4 (95% CI 2.1-2.7) with 
disability. In contrast, LE for men at 70 was 14.8 years, of which pre-frail, 
frail, and disabled years were 6.0 years (95% CI 5.5-6.5), 1.2 years (95% CI 
1.0-1.5), and 1.2 (95% CI 1.0-1.5), respectively. In conclusion, frailty is a 
transition state that is relatively limited in time compared to pre-frailty that 
may represent a larger time window for prevention.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-017-0438-z
PMCID: PMC5971024
PMID: 29867301

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with ethical standardsThe authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


72. Front Psychiatry. 2018 May 8;9:180. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2018.00180.
eCollection  2018.

Effect of Yoga Based Lifestyle Intervention on Patients With Knee 
Osteoarthritis: A Randomized Controlled Trial.

Deepeshwar S(1), Tanwar M(1), Kavuri V(1), Budhi RB(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, Swami Vivekananda Yoga Anusandhana 
Samsthana, Bengaluru, India.

Objective: To investigate the effect of integrated approach of yoga therapy 
(IAYT) intervention in individual with knee Osteoarthritis. Design: Randomized 
controlled clincial trail. Participants: Sixty-six individual prediagnosed with 
knee osteoarthritis aged between 30 and 75 years were randomized into two 
groups, i.e., Yoga (n = 31) and Control (n = 35). Yoga group received IAYT 
intervention for 1 week at yoga center of S-VYASA whereas Control group 
maintained their normal lifestyle. Outcome measures: The Falls Efficacy Scale 
(FES), Handgrip Strength test (left hand LHGS and right hand RHGS), Timed Up and 
Go Test (TUG), Sit-to-Stand (STS), and right & left extension and flexion were 
measured on day 1 and day 7. Results: There were a significant reduction in TUG 
(p < 0.001), Right (p < 0.001), and Left Flexion (p < 0.001) whereas significant 
improvements in LHGS (p < 0.01), and right extension (p < 0.05) & left extension 
(p < 0.001) from baseline in Yoga group. Conclusion: IAYT practice showed an 
improvement in TUG, STS, HGS, and Goniometer test, which suggest improved 
muscular strength, flexibility, and functional mobility. CTRI Registration 
Number: http://ctri.nic.in/Clinicaltrials, identifier CTRI/2017/10/010141.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2018.00180
PMCID: PMC5952125
PMID: 29867604


73. Prev Med Rep. 2018 Mar 14;10:176-183. doi: 10.1016/j.pmedr.2018.03.006. 
eCollection 2018 Jun.

High rates of cancer screening among dialysis patients seen in primary care a 
cohort study.

Thorsteinsdottir B(1)(2), Hickson LJ(3)(2), Ramar P(4)(2), Reinalda M(5)(2), 
Krueger NW(4)(6), Crowson CS(5)(2), Rule AD(3)(2), Takahashi PY(1), Chaudhry 
R(1), Tulledge-Scheitel SM(1), Tilburt JC(7), Williams AW(3), Albright RC(3), 
Meier SK(4), Shah ND(4)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Primary Care Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, Mayo 
Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN, USA.
(2)Robert D. and Patricia E. Kern Center for the Science of Health Care 
Delivery, Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN, USA.
(3)Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, Department of Medicine, Mayo Clinic, 
200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN, USA.
(4)Division of Health Care Policy & Research, Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street SW, 
Rochester, MN, USA.
(5)Division of Biomedical Statistics and Informatics, Department of Health 
Sciences Research, Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN, USA.
(6)Carnrite Group, 10330-DD Lake Rd, Houston, TX 77070, USA.
(7)Division of General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, Mayo Clinic, 
200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN, USA.

Routine preventive cancer screening is not recommended for patients with 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD) due to their limited life expectancy. The current 
extent of cancer screening in this population is unknown. Primary care (PC) 
reminder systems or performance incentives may encourage indiscriminate cancer 
screening. We compared rates of cancer screening in patients with ESRD, with and 
without PC visits. This is a retrospective cohort study using United States 
Renal Data System (USRDS) billing data and electronic medical record data. 
Patients aged ≥18 years starting dialysis from 2001 to 2008, Midwest regional 
dialysis network were categorized with or without a PC visit (defined as an 
office visit in family practice, internal medicine, pediatrics, geriatrics or 
preventive medicine during the first two years of dialysis). Cancer screening 
was based on Current Procedural Terminology codes in USRDS. We identified 2512 
incident dialysis patients (60% men, median age 65y). Cancer screening rates 
were more frequent among those seen in PC: 38% vs 19% (P = 0.0002), for breast; 
18% vs 10% (P = 0.047) for cervical; 13% versus 8% (P = 0.024) for prostate; and 
18% vs 9% (P = 0.0002) for colon cancer. Multivariable analyses found that those 
with PC were more likely to be screened after adjusting for age, sex, and 
comorbidities. In our practice, cancer screening rates among chronic dialysis 
patients are lower than those previously reported for our general population 
(64% for breast cancer). However, a sizeable proportion of our ESRD population 
does receive cancer screening, especially those still seen in primary care.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pmedr.2018.03.006
PMCID: PMC5984226
PMID: 29868364


74. Front Oncol. 2018 May 9;8:154. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00154. eCollection
2018.

Stereotactic Radiosurgery in the Management of Patients With Brain Metastases of 
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer: Indications, Decision Tools and Future Directions.

Hartgerink D(1), van der Heijden B(1), De Ruysscher D(1)(2), Postma A(3), 
Ackermans L(4), Hoeben A(5), Anten M(6), Lambin P(1), Terhaag K(1), Jochems 
A(1), Dekker A(1)(2), Schoenmaekers J(7), Hendriks L(7), Zindler J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology (MAASTRO Clinic), GROW School for Oncology 
and Developmental Biology, Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht, 
Netherlands.
(2)Proton Therapy Department South-East Netherlands (ZON-PTC), Maastricht, 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Radiology, Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht, 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht, 
Netherlands.
(5)Department of Medical Oncology, Maastricht University Medical Centre, 
Maastricht, Netherlands.
(6)Department of Neurology, Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht, 
Netherlands.
(7)Department of Pulmonary Diseases, Maastricht University Medical Centre, 
Maastricht, Netherlands.

Brain metastases (BM) frequently occur in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
patients. Most patients with BM have a limited life expectancy, measured in 
months. Selected patients may experience a very long progression-free survival, 
for example, patients with a targetable driver mutation. Traditionally, 
whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) has been the cornerstone of the treatment, but 
its indication is a matter of debate. A randomized trial has shown that for 
patients with a poor prognosis, WBRT does not add quality of life (QoL) nor 
survival over the best supportive care. In recent decades, stereotactic 
radiosurgery (SRS) has become an attractive non-invasive treatment for patients 
with BM. Only the BM is irradiated to an ablative dose, sparing healthy brain 
tissue. Intracranial recurrence rates decrease when WBRT is administered 
following SRS or resection but does not improve overall survival and comes at 
the expense of neurocognitive function and QoL. The downside of SRS compared 
with WBRT is a risk of radionecrosis (RN) and a higher risk of developing new BM 
during follow-up. Currently, SRS is an established treatment for patients with a 
maximum of four BM. Several promising strategies are currently being 
investigated to further improve the indication and outcome of SRS for patients 
with BM: the effectivity and safety of SRS in patients with more than four BM, 
combining SRS with systemic therapy such as targeted agents or immunotherapy, 
shared decision-making with SRS as a treatment option, and individualized 
isotoxic dose prescription to mitigate the risk of RN and further enhance local 
control probability of SRS. This review discusses the current indications of SRS 
and future directions of treatment for patients with BM of NSCLC with focus on 
the value of SRS.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00154
PMCID: PMC5954030
PMID: 29868476


75. Surg Endosc. 2018 Dec;32(12):4912-4922. doi: 10.1007/s00464-018-6250-9. Epub 
2018 Jun 4.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of laparoscopic versus open surgery in colon cancer.

Mar J(1)(2)(3)(4), Anton-Ladislao A(5)(6), Ibarrondo O(7), Arrospide A(7)(6)(8), 
Lázaro S(9)(6), Gonzalez N(5)(6), Bare M(10)(6), Callejo D(11)(12), Redondo 
M(13)(6), Quintana JM(7)(6); REDISSEC-CARESS/CCR group.

Collaborators: Quintana López JM, Baré Mañas M, Redondo Bautista M, Briones 
Pérez de la Blanca E, Férnandez de Larrea Baz N, Sarasqueta Eizaguirre C, 
Escobar Martínez A, Rivas Ruiz F, Morales-Suárez-Varela MM, Blasco Amaro JA, Del 
Cura González I, Arostegui Madariaga I, Bilbao González A, González Hernández N, 
García-Gutiérrez S, Lafuente Guerrero I, Aguirre Larracoechea U, Orive Calzada 
M, Martin Corral J, Antón-Ladislao A, Torà N, Pont M, Martínez Del Prado MP, 
Loizate Totorikaguena A, Zabalza Estévez I, Errasti Alustiza J, Gimeno García 
AZ, Lázaro Aramburu S, Comas Serrano M, Enríquez Navascues JM, Placer Galán C, 
Perales A, Urquidi Valmaña I, Erro Azkárate JM, Cormezana Lizarribar E, Lacasta 
Muñoa A, Peira Pibernat P, Campano Cuevas E, Sotelo Gómez AI, Gómez-Abril S, 
Medina-Cano F, Alcaide J, Del Rey-Moreno A, Alcántara MJ, Campo R, Casalots A, 
Pericay C, Gil MJ, Pera M, Collera P, Espinàs JA, Martínez M, Espallargues M, 
Almazán C, Lindenbaum PD, Fernández-Cebrián JM, Fernández RA, Mayol Martínez JÁ, 
Cantero Cid R, Guadalajara Labajo H, Heras Garceau M, García Olmo D, Morey 
Montalvo M, Mar J.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Investigación AP-OSIs Gipuzkoa, Hospital Alto Deba, Mondragón, 
Spain. javier.marmedina@osakidetza.eus.
(2)Red de Investigación en Servicios Sanitarios y Enfermedades Crónicas 
(REDISSEC), Bilbao, Spain. javier.marmedina@osakidetza.eus.
(3)Biodonostia Health Research Institute, Donostia-San Sebastián, Spain. 
javier.marmedina@osakidetza.eus.
(4)Unidad de Gestión Sanitaria, Hospital 'Alto Deba', Avenida Navarra 16, 20500, 
Mondragón, Spain. javier.marmedina@osakidetza.eus.
(5)Unidad de Investigación, Hospital Galdakao-Usansolo, Galdakao, Bizkaia, 
Spain.
(6)Red de Investigación en Servicios Sanitarios y Enfermedades Crónicas 
(REDISSEC), Bilbao, Spain.
(7)Unidad de Investigación AP-OSIs Gipuzkoa, Hospital Alto Deba, Mondragón, 
Spain.
(8)Biodonostia Health Research Institute, Donostia-San Sebastián, Spain.
(9)Servicio de Cirugía General, Hospital Galdakao-Usansolo, Galdakao, Bizkaia, 
Spain.
(10)Unidad de Epidemiología Clínica, Corporacio Parc Tauli, Barcelona, Spain.
(11)Health Technology Assessment Unit, Lain Entralgo Agency, Madrid, Spain.
(12)QuintilesIMS, Madrid, Spain.
(13)Unidad de Investigación, Hospital Costa del Sol, Malaga, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Few economic evaluations have assessed laparoscopy for colon cancer. 
This study aimed to compare the cost-effectiveness of laparoscopic and open 
surgery for the treatment of colon cancer.
METHOD: A cost-effectiveness analysis was performed comparing two groups of 
patients treated according to standard clinical practice (REDISSEC-CARESS/CCR 
cohort) by laparoscopic or open surgery. Data were collected from health records 
on clinical characteristics and resource use over 2 years after surgery. To 
calculate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, costs and quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) were obtained for each patient. Clinical heterogeneity was 
addressed using propensity score and joint multivariable analysis (seemingly 
