    Atherosclerosis. 2018 Aug;275:384-386.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) is widely 
underdiagnosed. Cascade testing (CT) of relatives has been shown to be feasible, 
acceptable and cost-effective in the UK, but requires a supply of index cases. 
Feasibility of universal screening (US) at age 1-2 years was recently 
demonstrated. We examined whether this would be a cost-effective adjunct to CT 
in the UK, given the current and plausible future undiagnosed FH prevalence.
METHODS: Seven cholesterol and/or mutation-based US ± reverse cascade testing 
(RCT) alternatives were compared with no US in an incremental analysis with a 
healthcare perspective. A decision model was used to estimate costs and outcomes 
for cohorts exposed to the US component of each strategy. RCT case ascertainment 
was modelled using recent UK CT data, and probabilistic Markov models estimated 
lifetime costs and health outcomes for the cohorts screened under each 
alternative. 1000 Monte Carlo simulations were run for each model, and average 
outcomes reported. Further uncertainty was explored deterministically. Threshold 
analysis investigated the association between undiagnosed FH prevalence and 
cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: A strategy involving cholesterol screening followed by diagnostic 
genetic testing and RCT was the most cost-effective modelled (incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) versus no US £12,480/quality adjusted life year 
(QALY); probability of cost-effectiveness 96·8% at £20,000/QALY threshold). 
Cost-effectiveness was robust to both deterministic sensitivity analyses and 
threshold analyses that modelled ongoing case ascertainment at theoretical 
maximum levels.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings support implementation of universal cholesterol 
screening followed by diagnostic genetic testing and RCT for FH, under a UK 
conventional willingness-to-pay threshold.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2018.05.047
PMID: 29937236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. J Pest Sci (2004). 2018;91(3):1005-1017. doi: 10.1007/s10340-018-0969-x.
Epub  2018 Mar 21.

Using the egg parasitoid Anastatus bifasciatus against the invasive brown 
marmorated stink bug in Europe: can non-target effects be ruled out?

Stahl JM(1)(2), Babendreier D(1), Haye T(1).

Author information:
(1)1CABI, Rue des Grillons 1, 2800 Delémont, Switzerland.
(2)2Institute of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Bremen, 
Leobener Str. NW2, 28359 Bremen, Germany.

The brown marmorated stink bug, Halyomorpha halys (Stål) (Hemiptera: 
Pentatomidae), has been causing massive damage to various fruit and vegetable 
crops after its arrival in the USA, and more recently in Europe. To provide an 
alternative control measure to pesticides, the native egg parasitoid Anastatus 
bifasciatus (Geoffroy) (Hymenoptera: Eupelmidae) was considered as a candidate 
biological control agent for inundative releases in Europe. In the risk 
assessment study presented here, all nine heteropteran and 14 out of 19 tested 
lepidopteran non-target species produced viable A. bifasciatus offspring. The 
proportion of A. bifasciatus females producing offspring did not differ between 
non-target and target for 19 out of the 28 non-target species. Larger host eggs 
corresponded to increased female-biased sex ratio of the offspring as well as an 
increase in size, particularly for females, with hind tibia lengths varying from 
645.5 ± 46 to 1084 ± 28.5 μm. Larger females were also found to have higher 
offspring production and increased life expectancy. The results of this study 
confirmed the polyphagous nature of A. bifasciatus and suggest that a number of 
non-target species, including Lepidoptera of conservation interest, may be 
attacked in the field. Thus, non-target effects cannot entirely be ruled out, 
but more information is needed from semi-field and field studies to fully assess 
potential environmental risks due to inundative releases of this native 
parasitoid.

DOI: 10.1007/s10340-018-0969-x
PMCID: PMC5978841
PMID: 29937704

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with ethical standardsThe authors 
have declared that no conflict of interest exists.Informed consent was obtained 
from all individual participants included in the study.This article does not 
contain any studies with human participants or animals (vertebrates) performed 
by any of the authors.


283. Ecol Evol. 2018 May 7;8(11):5649-5660. doi: 10.1002/ece3.4094. eCollection
2018  Jun.

Assessment of a livestock GPS collar based on an open-source datalogger informs 
best practices for logging intensity.

McGranahan DA(1), Geaumont B(2), Spiess JW(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Natural Resource Sciences North Dakota State University Fargo North 
Dakota.
(2)Hettinger Research Extension Center Hettinger North Dakota.

Ecologists have used Global Positioning Systems (GPS) to track animals for 
30 years. Issues today include logging frequency and precision in estimating 
space use and travel distances, as well as battery life and cost. We developed a 
low-cost (~US$125), open-source GPS datalogger based on Arduino. To test the 
system, we collected positions at 20-s intervals for several 1-week durations 
from cattle and sheep on rangeland in North Dakota. We tested two questions of 
broad interest to ecologists who use GPS collars to track animal movements: (1) 
How closely do collared animals cluster in their herd? (2) How well do different 
logging patterns estimate patch occupancy and total daily distance traveled? 
Tested logging patterns included regular logging (one position every 5 or 
10 min), and burst logging (positions recorded at 20-s intervals for 5 or 10 min 
per hour followed by a sleep period). Collared sheep within the same pasture 
spent 75% of daytime periods within 51 m of each other (mean = 42 m); collared 
cattle were within 111 m (mean = 76 m). In our comparison of how well different 
logging patterns estimate space use versus constant logging, the proportion of 
positions recorded in 1- and 16-ha patches differed by 2%-3% for burst logging 
and 1% for regular logging. Although all logging patterns underestimated total 
daily distance traveled, underestimations were corrected by multiplying 
estimations by regression coefficients estimated by maximum likelihood. Burst 
logging can extend battery life by a factor of 7. We conclude that a minimum of 
two collars programmed with burst logging robustly estimate patch use and 
spatial distribution of grazing livestock herds. Research questions that require 
accurately estimating travel of individual animals, however, are probably best 
addressed with regular logging intervals and will thus have greater battery 
demands than spatial occupancy questions across all GPS datalogger systems.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.4094
PMCID: PMC6010917
PMID: 29938081


284. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2018;17(9):680-688. doi: 
10.2174/1871527317666180625104753.

Nutrition and Nutraceuticals in Neuroinflammatory and Brain Metabolic Stress: 
Implications for Neurodegenerative Disorders.

Pandareesh MD(1), Kandikattu HK(2), Razack S(3), Amruta N(2), Choudhari R(4), 
Vikram A(5), Doddapattar P(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurochemistry, New York State Institute for Basic Research in 
Developmental Disabilities, Staten Island, New York-10314, United States.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, The University of Missouri, Columbia-65201, 
Missouri, United States.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, University of Mysore, Manasagangotri, Karnataka, 
India.
(4)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Texas Tech University, Health Sciences 
Center, El Paso 79905, United States.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, 52242, IA, 
United States.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: A steep rise in the incidences of neurodegenerative 
disorders could be the combined effect of several non-genetic factors such as 
increased life expectancy, environmental pollutants, lifestyle, and dietary 
habits, as population-level genetic change require multiple generations. 
Emerging evidence suggests that chronic over-nutrition induces brain metabolic 
stress and neuroinflammation, and are individually known to promote 
neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD). Although the association of 
metabolic disorders such as diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and 
atherosclerosis with the dietary habits is well known, neuronal implications of 
diet and nutritional factors is still in its infancy. Transcriptomics and 
proteomics-based studies support the view that nutraceuticals target multiple 
neuroprotective pathways in a slow but effective manner without causing severe 
adverse effects, and may represent the future of tackling neurodegenerative 
disorders.
CONCLUSION: In this article we i) review the diet/dietary supplement connection 
with brain metabolic stress and neuroinflammation and ii) summarize current 
knowledge of the effects of nutraceuticals on neurodegenerative disorders.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.org.

DOI: 10.2174/1871527317666180625104753
PMID: 29938622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Ugeskr Laeger. 2018 Jun 18;180(25):V11170855.

[Treatment of stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease].

[Article in Danish]

Løkke A(1), Nielsen LP, Moberg M, Marså K, Titlestad IL, Kofod LM, Godtfredsen 
NS.

Author information:
(1)aloekke@gmail.com.

In 2012, The Danish Society of Respiratory Medicine gave birth to their most 
recent guideline regarding chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Much 
has happened since, and in late 2017 an update has been published. Chapters have 
been deleted, and new ones added. The major alteration has been in the section 
concerning treatment with inhalation medication - now aiming at an easy stepwise 
up-titration of long-acting medicine as well as a guide of how to down-titrate 
inhaled corticosteroids. This review mainly focuses on how to treat stable COPD 
according to The Danish Society of Respiratory Medicine.

PMID: 29938633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. J Anim Ecol. 2018 Nov;87(6):1500-1511. doi: 10.1111/1365-2656.12878. Epub
2018  Jul 20.

Inbreeding intensifies sex- and age-dependent disease in a wild mammal.

Benton CH(1)(2), Delahay RJ(1), Smith FAP(1), Robertson A(1)(3), McDonald RA(3), 
Young AJ(2), Burke TA(4), Hodgson D(2).

Author information:
(1)National Wildlife Management Centre, Animal and Plant Health Agency, 
Stonehouse, UK.
(2)Centre for Ecology and Conservation, University of Exeter, Penryn, UK.
(3)Environment and Sustainability Institute, University of Exeter, Penryn, UK.
(4)Molecular Ecology Laboratory, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.

The mutation accumulation theory of senescence predicts that age-related 
deterioration of fitness can be exaggerated when inbreeding causes homozygosity 
for deleterious alleles. A vital component of fitness, in natural populations, 
is the incidence and progression of disease. Evidence is growing for natural 
links between inbreeding and ageing; between inbreeding and disease; between sex 
and ageing; and between sex and disease. However, there is scant evidence, to 
date, for links among age, disease, inbreeding and sex in a single natural 
population. Using ecological and epidemiological data from a long-term 
longitudinal field study, we show that in wild European badgers (Meles meles) 
exposed naturally to bovine tuberculosis (bTB), inbreeding (measured as 
multilocus homozygosity) intensifies a positive correlation between age and 
evidence of progressed infection (measured as an antibody response to bTB), but 
only among females. Male badgers suffer a steeper relationship between age and 
progressed infection than females, with no influence of inbred status. We found 
no link between inbreeding and the incidence of progressed infection during 
early life in either sex. Our findings highlight an age-related increase in the 
impact of inbreeding on a fitness-relevant trait (disease state) among females. 
This relationship is consistent with the predictions of the mutation 
accumulation theory of senescence, but other mechanisms could also play a role. 
For example, late-life declines in condition, arising through mechanisms other 
than mutation accumulation might have increased the magnitude of inbreeding 
depression in late life. Whichever mechanism causes the observed patterns, we 
have shown that inbreeding can influence age-dependent patterns of disease and, 
by extension, is likely to affect the magnitude and timing of the late-life 
declines in components of fitness that characterise senescence. Better 
understanding of sex-specific links between inbreeding, disease and ageing 
provides insights into population-level pathogen dynamics and could influence 
management strategies for wildlife reservoirs of zoonotic disease.

© 2018 Crown copyright. Journal of Animal Ecology © 2018 British Ecological 
Society.

DOI: 10.1111/1365-2656.12878
PMID: 29938787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. J Vis Exp. 2018 Jun 9;(136):57634. doi: 10.3791/57634.

A Protocol to Acquire the Degenerative Tenocyte from Humans.

Han SH(1), Kim HK(2), Ahn JH(1), Lee DH(3), Baek M(1), Ye G(1), Lee JM(1), Min 
K(4), Oh C(1), Lee S(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, CHA Bundang Medical Center, CHA University 
School of Medicine.
(2)Department of Pathology, Kyung Hee University Hospital at Gangdong, Kyung Hee 
University School of Medicine.
(3)Department of Physiology, CHA University School of Medicine.
(4)Department of Rehabilitation, CHA Bundang Medical Center, CHA University 
School of Medicine.
(5)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, CHA Bundang Medical Center, CHA University 
School of Medicine; lsceline78@gmail.com.

Tendinopathy, a painful condition that develops in response to tendon 
degeneration, is on the rise in the developed world due to increasing physical 
activity and longer life expectancy. Despite its increasing prevalence, the 
underlying pathogenesis still remains unclear, and treatment is generally 
symptomatic. Recently, numerous therapeutic options, including growth factors, 
stem cells, and gene therapy, were investigated in hopes of enhancing the 
healing potency of the degenerative tendon. However, the majority of these 
research studies were conducted only on animal models or healthy human 
tenocytes. Despite some studies using pathological tenocytes, to the best of our 
knowledge there is currently no protocol describing how to obtain human 
degenerative tenocytes. The aim of this study is to describe a standard protocol 
for acquiring human degenerative tenocytes. Initially, the tendon tissue was 
harvested from a patient with lateral epicondylitis during surgery. Then biopsy 
samples were taken from the extensor carpi radialis brevis tendon corresponding 
to structural changes observed at the time of surgery. All of the harvested 
tendons appeared to be dull, gray, friable, and edematous, which made them 
visually distinct from the healthy ones. Tenocytes were cultured and used for 
experiments. Meanwhile, half of the harvested tissues were analyzed 
histologically, and it was shown that they shared the same key features of 
tendinopathy (angiofibroblastic dysplasia or hyperplasia). A secondary analysis 
by immunocytochemistry confirmed that the cultured cells were tenocytes with the 
majority of the cells having positive stains for mohawk and tenomodulin 
proteins. The qualities of the degenerative nature of tenocytes were then 
determined by comparing the cells with the healthy control using a proliferation 
assay or qRT-PCR. The degenerative tenocyte displayed a higher proliferation 
rate and similar gene expression patterns of tendinopathy that matched previous 
reports. Overall, this new protocol might provide a useful tool for future 
studies of tendinopathy.

DOI: 10.3791/57634
PMCID: PMC6101647
PMID: 29939181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Grief Reaction and Prolonged Grief Disorder.

Mughal S, Azhar Y(1), Mahon MM(2), Siddiqui WJ(3).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Nov 14.

Author information:
(1)Dow University of Health Sciences
(2)National Institutes of Health Clinical Center
(3)Drexel University

Grief is a natural and universal response to the loss of a loved one. The grief 
experience is not a state but a process. Most individuals recover adequately 
within a year after the loss; however, some individuals experience an extension 
of the grieving process. This condition, identified as prolonged grief disorder, 
results from failure to transition from acute to integrated grief. Symptoms of 
acute grief include sadness, tearfulness, and possibly insomnia, and typically 
require no treatment. Prolonged grief disorder involves intense, painful 
emotions associated with a lack of adapting to the loss of a loved one that 
persists for more than 1 year in adults and more than 6 months in adolescents or 
children. This condition is estimated to affect as many as 7% of bereaved 
individuals. The terms grief, mourning, and bereavement have slightly different 
meanings: Grief is a person's emotional response to loss. Mourning is an outward 
expression of that grief, including cultural and religious customs surrounding 
the death. Mourning is also the process of adapting to life after loss. 
Bereavement is a period of grief and mourning after a loss. Anticipatory 
grief is a response to an expected loss. It affects both the person diagnosed 
with a terminal illness as well as their families. Disenfranchised grief, as 
defined by Kenneth Doka (1989), is "grief that persons experience when they 
incur a loss that is not or cannot be openly acknowledged, publicly mourned, or 
socially supported." Some examples could include grief related to the loss of a 
pet, perinatal losses, and loss of a body part, and this condition can be 
present in healthcare workers, with losses in the form of patient deaths. . 
Intense grief can have physical consequences and may trigger the acute onset of 
myocardial infarction, particularly in people with higher baseline 
cardiovascular risk. There is a correlation between complicated grief and acute 
coronary syndrome. Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, also called broken heart syndrome 
or stress cardiomyopathy, is another cardiovascular syndrome triggered by 
intense grief. This condition is a weakening of the left ventricle leading to 
apical ballooning caused by severe emotional or physical stress, such as losing 
a loved one, sudden illness, a severe accident, or a natural disaster (eg, 
earthquake). Takotsubo cardiomyopathy occurs in women 90% of the time, most 
commonly in postmenopausal women, and often resolves within a month.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 29939609

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Saba Mughal declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Yusra Azhar 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. 
Disclosure: Margaret Mahon declares no relevant financial relationships with 
ineligible companies. Disclosure: Waqas Siddiqui declares no relevant financial 
relationships with ineligible companies.


289. Orbital Cellulitis.

Danishyar A(1), Sergent SR(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Aug 8.

Author information:
(1)Midwestern University
(2)Michigan State University College of OM

Orbital cellulitis is defined as a serious infection that involves the muscle 
and fat located within the orbit. It is also sometimes referred to as postseptal 
cellulitis. Orbital cellulitis does not involve the globe itself. Although 
orbital cellulitis can occur at any age, it is more common in the pediatric 
population.The causative organisms of orbital cellulitis are commonly bacterial 
but can also be polymicrobial, often including aerobic and anaerobic bacteria 
and even fungal or mycobacteria. The most common bacterial organisms causing 
orbital cellulitis are Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococci species. Rare 
cases of orbital cellulitis caused by non-spore-forming anaerobes Aeromonas 
hydrophila, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Eikenella corrodens have also been 
reported. Fungal pathogens causing invasive orbital cellulitis include Mucorales 
which causes mucormycosis and Aspergillus which can cause life-threatening 
invasive orbital infections. In immunocompromised patients with orbital 
cellulitis, mucormycosis and invasive aspergillosis should be considered as the 
cause of orbital cellulitis. Mucormycosis affects patients with diabetic 
ketoacidosis as well as the patients with renal acidosis. Aspergillus infection 
of the orbit occurs in patients with severe neutropenia or other immune 
deficiencies, such as HIV infection. Other rare reported cause of orbital 
cellulitis is mycobacteria, especially Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Orbital 
cellulitis is primarily diagnosed clinically by objective findings on physical 
examination combined with presenting signs and symptoms. The most important 
distinguishing feature of orbital cellulitis is the presence of ophthalmoplegia, 
the presence of pain with eye movement, and/or proptosis. Orbital cellulitis 
also typically cause eyelid swelling with or without erythema; however, these 
findings are also seen in another less serious condition called preseptal 
cellulitis.  The diagnosis of orbital cellulitis can be confirmed by imaging 
modalities such as Computed Tomography (CT) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging 
(MRI). Due to the controversy surrounding imaging use and the risks of radiation 
exposure to the pediatric population, there are guidelines and recommendation in 
place that highlight the indications and aid in the proper use of imaging for 
diagnosis of orbital cellulitis. Treatment of orbital cellulitis includes 
antibiotics and other supportive therapies. An ophthalmologist and 
otolaryngologist should also be consulted for proper examination and because, in 
some cases, surgery may be required. Without prompt diagnosis and proper 
treatment, the infection of the orbit can progress and extend to the adjacent 
anatomical locations and result in serious complications. Those complications 
include loss of vision, subperiosteal abscess, orbital abscess, and intracranial 
extension of the infection. The choice of antibiotics is broad spectrum regimens 
aimed at covering for organisms such as S. aureus (including 
methicillin-resistant S. aureus [MRSA]), Streptococcus pneumoniae, other 
Streptococci, as well as gram-negative bacilli. The antibiotic regimen should 
also include coverage for anaerobes when an intracranial extension is suspected. 
Antifungals are indicated only when a fungal infection is suspected in the 
appropriate clinical setting. Further details on specific antibiotics will be 
explained in the diagnosis section. Analgesics such as NSAIDs and acetaminophen 
can be used alone or in combination to achieve effective pain control in 
patients with orbital cellulitis.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 29939678

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Amina Danishyar declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Shane Sergent 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


290. Med Care. 2018 Aug;56(8):740-746. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0000000000000943.

Quality-adjusted Life Years (QALY) for 15 Chronic Conditions and Combinations of 
Conditions Among US Adults Aged 65 and Older.

Jia H(1), Lubetkin EI(2), Barile JP(3), Horner-Johnson W(4), DeMichele K(5), 
Stark DS(5), Zack MM(6), Thompson WW(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Mailman School of Public Health and School of 
Nursing, Columbia University.
(2)Department of Community Health and Social Medicine, CUNY School of Medicine, 
New York, NY.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Hawai'i at Mānoa, Honolulu, HI.
(4)Institute on Development and Disability, Oregon Health and Science 
University, Portland, OR.
(5)Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Baltimore, MD.
(6)National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion.
(7)National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, US 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA.

BACKGROUND: Although the life expectancy for the US population has increased, a 
high proportion of this population has lived with ≥1 chronic conditions. We have 
quantified the burden of disease associated with 15 chronic conditions and 
combinations of conditions by estimating quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) for 
older US adults.
RESEARCH DESIGN: Data were from the Medicare Health Outcomes Survey Cohort 15 
(baseline survey in 2012, follow-up survey 2014, with mortality follow-up 
through January 31, 2015). We included individuals aged 65 years and older 
(n=96,481). We estimated mean QALY throughout the remainder of the lifetime 
according to the occurrence of these conditions.
RESULTS: The age-adjusted QALY was 5.8 years for men and 7.8 years for women. 
Over 90% respondents reported at least 1 condition and 72% reported multiple 
conditions. Respondents with depression and congestive heart failure had the 
lowest age-adjusted QALY (1.1-1.5 y for men and 1.5-2.2 y for women), whereas 
those with hypertension, arthritis, and sciatica had higher QALY (4.2-5.4 and 
6.4-7.2 y, respectively). Having either depression or congestive heart failure 
and any 1 or 2 of the other 13 conditions was associated with the lowest QALY 
among the possible dyads and triads of chronic conditions. Dyads and triads with 
hypertension or arthritis were more prevalent, but had higher QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Understanding the burden of disease for common chronic conditions 
and for combinations of these conditions is useful for delivering high-quality 
primary care that could be tailored for individuals with combinations of chronic 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0000000000000943
PMID: 29939910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Semin Cell Dev Biol. 2019 Sep;93:46-54. doi: 10.1016/j.semcdb.2018.06.003.
Epub  2018 Jun 28.

The devil is in the mesoscale: Mechanical and behavioural heterogeneity in 
collective cell movement.

Blanchard GB(1), Fletcher AG(2), Schumacher LJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of 
Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge, CB2 3DY, UK. Electronic address: 
gb288@cam.ac.uk.
(2)School of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Sheffield, Hicks 
Building, Hounsfield Road, Sheffield, S3 7RH, UK; Bateson Centre, University of 
Sheffield, Firth Court, Western Bank, Sheffield, S10 2TN, UK. Electronic 
address: a.g.fletcher@sheffield.ac.uk.
(3)Department of Life Sciences, Imperial College London, London, SW7 2AZ, UK. 
Electronic address: linus.schumacher@ed.ac.uk.

Heterogeneity within cell populations can be an important aspect affecting their 
collective movement and tissue-mechanical properties, determining for example 
their effective viscoelasticity. Differences in cell-level properties and 
behaviour within a group of moving cells can give rise to unexpected and 
non-intuitive behaviours at the tissue level. Such emergent phenomena often 
manifest themselves through spatiotemporal patterns at an intermediate 
'mesoscale' between cell and tissue scales, typically involving tens of cells. 
Focussing on the development of embryonic animal tissues, we review recent 
evidence for the importance of heterogeneity at the mesoscale for collective 
cell migration and convergence and extension movements. We further discuss 
approaches to incorporate heterogeneity into computational models to complement 
experimental investigations.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semcdb.2018.06.003
PMID: 29940338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Rom J Morphol Embryol. 2018;59(1):329-337.

The cardiac tumors - some exceptional heart conditions.

Cristian AM(1), Moraru OE, Goleanu VC, Butuşină M, Pinte F, Cotoi BV, Cristian 
G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Angiolife Cardiology Centre, Bucharest, Romania; 
preda_anamaria25@yahoo.com; Department of Family Medicine, University of 
Medicine and Pharmacy of Craiova, Romania; bogdan230376@yahoo.ro.

Cardiac tumors are exceptional cardiac conditions, since they have a minimal 
occurrence, according to statistics. The cardiac myxoma cases are the most 
dominant for the representative examples for these clinical situations. Those 
tumors being benign, the patients enjoy a reasonable life expectancy provided 
they receive an early diagnosis. In the absence of potential complications, the 
symptoms can vary very much and they may often be non-specific, a fact which 
makes it more difficult to establish a proper diagnosis and to quickly tailor 
the optimal therapeutic solutions. Surgery is, in the most cases, a comfortable 
solution, allowing the cases to be permanently healed. Nowadays, cardiac surgery 
provides all the needed facilities to diagnose cases at an early stage, when 
diagnosis is quick and accurate. This paper illustrates, by the means of two 
suggestive cases, how difficult it is to establish a quick positive diagnosis, 
which is vital for healing this condition with an evolutionary risk frequently 
worsen by major complications.

PMID: 29940646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Molecules. 2018 Jun 25;23(7):1530. doi: 10.3390/molecules23071530.

Tetramethylpyrazine-Inducible Promoter Region from Rhodococcus jostii TMP1.

Stanislauskienė R(1), Kutanovas S(2), Kalinienė L(3), Bratchikov M(4), Meškys 
R(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Biotechnology, Institute of 
Biochemistry, Life Sciences Center, Vilnius University, Saulėtekio al. 7, 
LT-10257 Vilnius, Lithuania. ruta.stanislauskiene@bchi.vu.lt.
(2)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Biotechnology, Institute of 
Biochemistry, Life Sciences Center, Vilnius University, Saulėtekio al. 7, 
LT-10257 Vilnius, Lithuania. s.k.pastas@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Biotechnology, Institute of 
Biochemistry, Life Sciences Center, Vilnius University, Saulėtekio al. 7, 
LT-10257 Vilnius, Lithuania. laura.kaliniene@bchi.vu.lt.
(4)Department of Physiology, Biochemistry, Microbiology and Laboratory Medicine, 
Faculty of Medicine, Vilnius University, M. K. Čiurlionio 21, LT-03101 Vilnius, 
Lithuania. maksim@biosta.lt.
(5)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Biotechnology, Institute of 
Biochemistry, Life Sciences Center, Vilnius University, Saulėtekio al. 7, 
LT-10257 Vilnius, Lithuania. rolandas.meskys@bchi.vu.lt.

An inducible promoter region, PTTMP (tetramethylpyrazine [TTMP]), has been 
identified upstream of the tpdABC operon, which contains the genes required for 
the initial degradation of 2,3,5,6-tetramethylpyrazine in Rhodococcus jostii 
TMP1 bacteria. In this work, the promoter region was fused with the gene for the 
enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) to investigate the activity of PTTMP 
by measuring the fluorescence of bacteria. The highest promoter activity was 
observed when bacteria were grown in a nutrient broth (NB) medium supplemented 
with 5 mM 2,3,5,6-tetramethylpyrazine for 48 h. Using a primer extension 
reaction, two transcriptional start sites for tpdA were identified, and the 
putative −35 and −10 promoter motifs were determined. The minimal promoter along 
with two 15 bp long direct repeats and two 7 bp inverted sequences were 
identified. Also, the influence of the promoter elements on the activity of 
PTTMP were determined using site-directed mutagenesis. Furthermore, PTTMP was 
shown to be induced by pyrazine derivatives containing methyl groups in the 2- 
and 5-positions of the heterocyclic ring, in the presence of the LuxR family 
transcriptional activator TpdR.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules23071530
PMCID: PMC6099782
PMID: 29941849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of the data; in the writing of the manuscript; and in the 
decision to publish the results.


294. Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2018 Jun;52(3):200-207. doi:
10.1007/s13139-017-0509-2.  Epub 2018 Jan 12.

Treatment of Bone Metastasis with Bone-Targeting Radiopharmaceuticals.

Choi JY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan 
University School of Medicine, 81 Irwon-ro, Gangnam-gu, 06351 Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.

Bone is a common metastatic site of cancer. Bone metastasis reduces life 
expectancy and results in serious symptoms and complications such as bone pain, 
pathological fractures, and spinal cord compression, decreasing quality of life 
by restricting sleep and mobility. Treatment for bone metastasis includes drugs 
(pure analgesics, hormones, cytotoxic chemotherapy, and bisphosphonates, among 
others), external radiation therapy, surgery, and radionuclide therapy using 
bone-targeting radiopharmaceuticals. Particulate radiation with α- or β-rays is 
used as a bone-targeting radiopharmaceutical in radionuclide therapy. β-Emitters 
have lower energy and a longer range than α-emitters and have less tumoricidal 
activity and deliver more radiation to adjacent normal tissue. Therefore, the 
main therapeutic effect of bone-targeting β-emitters such as 89Sr-dichloride is 
bone pain palliation rather than enhanced survival. In contrast, α-emitters such 
as 223Ra-dichloride have high energy and a short range, resulting in greater 
tumoricidal activity and less radiation damage to adjacent normal tissue. 
Treatment with bone-targeting α-emitters can improve survival and decrease bone 
pain. This review focuses on the principles and clinical utility of several 
clinically available bone-targeting radiopharmaceuticals in metastatic bone 
disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s13139-017-0509-2
PMCID: PMC5995773
PMID: 29942398

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with Ethical StandardsJoon Young Choi 
declares that he has no conflicts of interest.All procedures performed in 
studies involving human participants were in accordance with the ethical 
standards of the institutional and/or national research committee and with the 
1964 Helsinki Declaration and its later amendments or comparable ethical 
standards.Not applicable.


295. Open Forum Infect Dis. 2018 May 22;5(6):ofy121. doi: 10.1093/ofid/ofy121. 
eCollection 2018 Jun 1.

Room for Improvement: The HIV-Diabetes Care Continuum Over 15 Years in the 
Women's Interagency HIV Study.

Colasanti J(1)(2), Galaviz KI(2), Christina Mehta C(3), Palar K(4), Schneider 
MF(5), Tien P(6), Adimora AA(7), Alcaide M(8), Cohen MH(9), Gustafson D(10), 
Karim R(11), Merenstein D(12), Sharma A(13), Wingood G(14), Marconi VC(1)(2), 
Ofotokun I(1), Ali MK(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Emory University 
School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia.
(2)Department of Global Health, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory 
University, Atlanta, Georgia.
(3)Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Rollins School of Public 
Health, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia.
(4)Division of HIV, ID and Global Medicine, Department of Medicine, University 
of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California.
(5)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, Maryland.
(6)Divison of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, University of 
California-San Francisco and the Department of Veterans Affairs, San Francisco, 
California.
(7)Division of Infectious Disease, Department of Medicine, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.
(8)Division of Infectious Diseases, University of Miami Miller School of 
Medicine, Miami, Florida.
(9)Department of Medicine, Stroger Hospital and Rush University, Chicago, 
Illinois.
(10)Department of Neurology, SUNY-Downstate Medical Center, Brooklyn, New York.
(11)Department Preventive Medicine, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, California.
(12)Department of Family Medicine, Georgetown University Medical Center, 
Washington, DC.
(13)Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New 
York.
(14)Department of Sociomedical Sciences, Lerner Center for Public Health 
Promotion, Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University, New York, New 
York.

BACKGROUND: Gains in life expectancy through optimal control of HIV infection 
with antiretroviral therapy (ART) may be threatened if other comorbidities, such 
as diabetes, are not optimally managed.
METHODS: We analyzed cross-sectional data of the Women's Interagency HIV Study 
(WIHS) from 2001, 2006, and 2015. We estimated the proportions of HIV-positive 
and HIV-negative women with diabetes who were engaged in care and achieved 
treatment goals (hemoglobin A1c [A1c] <7.0%, blood pressure [BP] <140/90 mmHg, 
low-density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol <100 mg/dL, not smoking) and viral 
suppression. Repeated-measures models were used to estimate the adjusted 
prevalence of achieving each diabetes treatment goal at each time point, by HIV 
status.
RESULTS: We included 486 HIV-positive and 258 HIV-negative women with diabetes. 
In 2001, 91.8% visited a health care provider, 60.7% achieved the A1c target, 
70.5% achieved the BP target, 38.5% achieved the LDL cholesterol target, 49.2% 
were nonsmokers, 23.3% achieved combined ABC targets (A1c, BP, and cholesterol), 
and 10.9% met combined ABC targets and did not smoke. There were no differences 
by HIV status, and patterns were similar in 2006 and 2015. Among HIV-positive 
women, viral suppression increased from 41% in 2001 to 87% in 2015 compared with 
8% and 13% achieving the ABC goals and not smoking. Viral suppression was not 
associated with achievement of diabetes care goals.
CONCLUSIONS: Successful management of HIV is outpacing that of diabetes. Future 
studies are needed to identify factors associated with gaps in the HIV-diabetes 
care continuum and design interventions to better integrate effective diabetes 
management into HIV care.

DOI: 10.1093/ofid/ofy121
PMCID: PMC6007350
PMID: 29942823


296. Arch Virol. 2018 Oct;163(10):2933-2936. doi: 10.1007/s00705-018-3915-6. Epub
 2018 Jun 26.

Increasing the number of available ranks in virus taxonomy from five to ten and 
adopting the Baltimore classes as taxa at the basal rank.

Gorbalenya AE(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, Leiden University Medical Center, 2300, 
RC, Leiden, The Netherlands. a.e.gorbalenya@lumc.nl.
(2)Faculty of Bioengineering and Bioinformatics, Lomonosov Moscow State 
University, 119899, Moscow, Russia. a.e.gorbalenya@lumc.nl.

This opinion article makes a case for increasing the number of ranks used in 
virus taxonomy from the current five to ten (as are used to classify cellular 
life forms) and placing the Baltimore classes in the proposed basal rank of 
domain. These suggestions aim at initiating the process of accommodation of 
Baltimore classes in virus taxonomy and extension of the virus taxonomy scale to 
encompass also the most distant relationships.

DOI: 10.1007/s00705-018-3915-6
PMCID: PMC6132925
PMID: 29942981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: The author declares that 
he has no conflict of interest. ETHICAL APPROVAL: This article does not contain 
any studies with human participants or animals performed by the author.


297. J Postgrad Med. 2019 Jan-Mar;65(1):11-17. doi: 10.4103/jpgm.JPGM_529_17.

Unconditional probability of dying and age-specific mortality rate because of 
major non-communicable diseases in India: Time trends from 2001 to 2013.

Reddy MM(1), Kar SS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Sri Devaraj Urs Medical College, Tamaka, 
Kolar, Karnataka, India.
(2)Department of Preventive and Social Medicine, Jawaharlal Institute of 
Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Puducherry, India.

Comment in
    J Postgrad Med. 2019 Jan-Mar;65(1):5-6.

BACKGROUND: Unconditional probability of dying because of four major 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs) between 30 and 70 years of age is the selected 
global indicator to measure the impact of NCD prevention and control programs.
OBJECTIVE: To calculate the unconditional probability of dying and age-specific 
mortality rate because of major NCDs in India from 2001 to 2013.
METHODS: This study used multiple data sources that are available in the public 
domain-Census 2001 and 2011, Sample Registration System, causes of death reports 
in 2001-03, 2004-06, and 2010-13. Unconditional probability of dying between 
ages 30 and 70 years during 2001, 2006, and 2013 was calculated by the formula 
suggested by the World Health Organization. Line graphs were used to depict time 
trends in age-specific mortality rates over the years in four major NCDs 
(cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes, and chronic respiratory diseases).
RESULTS: The age-specific mortality rate because of four NCDs showed a decrease 
of 51 deaths per 100,000 population from 2001 to 2013. Of the four NCDs, 
age-specific mortality rate was highest in cardiovascular diseases 
(238.2/100,000 population) and least in diabetes mellitus (21.9/100,000 
population); it was 76.3 and 58.2/100,000 population for cancer and chronic 
respiratory diseases, respectively. The probability of dying was very less and 
was almost the same from 30 to 44 years of life and increased steeply after that 
till 70 years of life; and it was more in males (24%) compared with females 
(17.4%).
CONCLUSION: Although India has shown a decreasing trend in premature mortality 
because of NCDs in the past decade, the rate of decrease is not on par to 
achieve the global "25 × 25" target.

DOI: 10.4103/jpgm.JPGM_529_17
PMCID: PMC6380139
PMID: 29943745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None


298. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2018 Sep;143:101-112. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2018.06.007. Epub 2018 Jun 23.

2020 vision - An overview of prospects for diabetes management and prevention in 
the next decade.

Wang CY(1), Neil DL(2), Home P(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan. Electronic address: cyw1965@ntu.edu.tw.
(2)Scientific Development Department, Content Ed Net, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Institute for Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, 
UK.

After a century of medical progress, people nowadays live longer with diabetes 
than ever before. However, current preventative approaches, compounded in part 
by increased life-expectancy, are failing to reduce the prevalence of diabetes. 
Cardiovascular sequelae account for many of the four million deaths annually 
attributable to diabetes. Evidence indicates that certain glucose-lowering 
medications can improve vascular outcomes in some people with type 2 diabetes, 
which, together with better understanding of using multiple therapies 
concurrently, offers opportunities for beneficial personalization of medication 
regimens. However, further well-designed long-term studies are needed to 
evaluate cardiovascular benefits and safety of new and older medications, 
particularly in users typical of everyday diabetes care. Although there are 
numerous other promising advances in pharmacotherapies and biotechnology, these 
will probably be unaffordable for most people with diabetes globally. Therefore, 
effective national public health approaches will be essential to reducing the 
incidence of diabetes and its associated burdens; these may entail politically 
controversial measures to change unhealthy lifestyle behaviours. Stakeholders 
could learn from past failures and emulate successes in other health-care 
initiatives. Without early action at all levels, we face a future in which 
approaching one-quarter of humans will have diabetes, with more than half 
afflicted during their lifetime.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2018.06.007
PMID: 29944968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 2018 May 1;112(5):238-244. doi:
10.1093/trstmh/try038.

Quality of life and quality-adjusted life years of chronic schistosomiasis 
mansoni patients in Brazil in 2015.

Nascimento GL(1), Domingues ALC(2), Ximenes RAA(2)(3), Itria A(3)(4), Cruz 
LN(3)(5), Oliveira MRF(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Núcleo de Medicina Tropical - Universidade de Brasília. Campus Universitário 
Darcy Ribeiro, S/N. Asa Norte. Brasília-DF.
(2)Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Programa de Pós-Graduação em Medicina 
Tropical. Av. Prof. Moraes Rego - s/n. 50670-901 - Cidade Universitária, 
Recife-PE.
(3)National Institute for Science and Technology for Health Technology 
Assessment (IATS/CNPq), Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(4)Instituto de Patologia Tropical e Saúde Pública - Universidade Federal de 
Goiás. Rua 235 s/nº - Esq. com 1ª Avenida - Setor Universitário. Goiânia - GO.
(5)Hospital Moinhos de Vento, Rua Ramiro Barcelos, 630 sala 815. Porto Alegre - 
RS.

BACKGROUND: Measures of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) have been used to 
express the impact of neglected diseases and to generate indicators for health 
economic assessments. Schistosomiasis mansoni is a neglected disease with 
various clinical manifestations, including severe repercussions, caused by 
parasitic worms. Here we describe the quality of life of chronic schistosomiasis 
mansoni patients and estimate the quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) associated 
with chronic schistosomiasis mansoni in Brazil in 2015.
METHODS: A HRQoL study was carried out using the three-level European Quality of 
Life 5-Dimensions (EQ-5D-3L) questionnaire in 147 chronic schistosomiasis 
mansoni patients at an outpatient monitoring facility of an endemic state for 
schistosomiasis.
RESULTS: Losses in HRQoL were observed in all five dimensions of the EQ-5D-3L. 
Patients >60 y and 40-49 y of age reported the highest frequencies of problems. 
The average utility index was 0.71, and the median index was significantly lower 
among female patients and patients with comorbidities (0.68; p<0.05) compared 
with the entire sample. Approximately 26.7 QALYs were estimated for the study 
population and 31.2 QALYs for the chronic schistosomiasis mansoni patients in 
Brazil.
CONCLUSIONS: The advanced forms of schistosomiasis mansoni, even during 
treatment, contribute to important health losses in the population dealing with 
the disease.

DOI: 10.1093/trstmh/try038
PMID: 29945168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2018 Oct 1;57(10):1777-1788. doi: 
10.1093/rheumatology/key161.

Ixekizumab improves patient-reported outcomes up to 52 weeks in bDMARD-naïve 
patients with active psoriatic arthritis (SPIRIT-P1).

Gottlieb AB(1), Strand V(2), Kishimoto M(3), Mease P(4)(5), Thaçi D(6), Birt 
J(7), Lee CH(7), Shuler CL(7), Lin CY(7), Gladman DD(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, New York Medical College, Metropolitan Hospital, 
New York, NY.
(2)Division of Immunology/Rheumatology, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA, USA.
(3)St Luke's International Hospital, Immuno-Rheumatology Centre, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Department of Rheumatology, Swedish Medical Centre, Seattle, WA, USA.
(5)Division of Rheumatology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(6)Comprehensive Centre for Inflammation Medicine, University Hospital 
Schleswig-Holstein, Campus Lübeck, Lübeck, Germany.
(7)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(8)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, 
Krembil Research Institute, Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To report patient-reported outcomes of patients with PsA treated with 
ixekizumab up to 52 weeks.
METHODS: In SPIRIT-P1, biologic-naïve patients with active PsA were randomized 
to ixekizumab 80 mg every 4 weeks (IXEQ4W; N = 107) or every 2 weeks (IXEQ2W; N 
= 103) following a 160 mg starting dose, adalimumab 40 mg every 2 weeks (ADA; N 
= 101) or placebo (PBO; N = 106) during the initial 24-week double-blind 
treatment period. At week 24 (week 16 for inadequate responders), ADA (8-week 
washout before starting ixekizumab) and PBO patients were re-randomized to 
IXEQ2W or IXEQ4W. Patients receiving ixekizumab at week 24 received the same 
dose during the extension period (EP) to week 52. Patients completed measures 
including the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI), Itch Numeric Rating Scale, 
36-Item Short Form Health Survey version 2, European Quality of Life 5 
Dimensions Visual Analogue Scale and Work Productivity and Activity Impairment 
Questionnaire-Specific Health Problem.
RESULTS: The IXEQ4W, IXEQ2W and ADA groups reported significant improvements in 
DLQI at week 24; 22% (PBO), 53% (IXEQ4W), 63% (IXEQ2W) and 54% (ADA) of patients 
reported DLQI scores of 0/1. The IXEQ4W, IXEQ2W and ADA groups reported 
significant improvements in Itch Numeric Rating Scale, 36-Item Short Form Health 
Survey version 2 physical component summary and some domain scores, and European 
Quality of Life 5 Dimensions Visual Analogue Scale at weeks 12 and 24; and in 
three of four Work Productivity and Activity Impairment Questionnaire-Specific 
Health Problem domains at week 24. Results are also presented through week 52 
for the EP.
CONCLUSION: In biologic-naïve patients with active PsA, ixekizumab significantly 
improved skin symptoms, health-related quality of life and work productivity.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, http://clinicaltrials.gov, NCT01695239; 
EU Clinical Trials Register, https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu, 
EudraCT2011-002326-49.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/key161
PMCID: PMC6152421
PMID: 29945203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Clin Lab. 2018 Jun 1;64(6):1013-1019. doi: 10.7754/Clin.Lab.2018.180122.

Detection of Bacterial Meningitis Pathogens by PCR-Mass Spectrometry in 
Cerebrospinal Fluid.

Jing-Zi P, Zheng-Xin H, Wei-Jun C, Yong-Qiang J.

BACKGROUND: Acute bacterial meningitis remains a life-threatening infectious 
disease with considerable morbidity and mortality. DNA-based detection methods 
are an urgent requisite for meningitis-causing bacterial pathogens for the 
prevention of outbreaks and control of infections.
METHODS: We proposed a novel PCR-mass spectrometry (PCR-Mass) assay for the 
simultaneous detection of four meningitis-causing agents, Neisseria 
meningitidis, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, and 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis in the present study. A total of 138 cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) samples (including 56 CSF culture positive, 44 CSF culture negative, 
and 38 CSF control) were enrolled and analyzed by PCR/Mass. Results were 
compared to real-time PCR detection.
RESULTS: These four targeting pathogens could be discriminated without 
cross-reaction by the accurate detection of the corresponding extension products 
with different masses. The limits of detection were 102 copies/reaction for S. 
pneumoniae, H. influenzae, and N. meningitidis and 103 for M. tuberculosis. The 
evaluation of the culture-positive CSF specimens from the meningitis patients 
provided an overall agreement rate of 85.7% with PCR-Mass and real-time PCR. The 
PCR-Mass was also able to detect the targeting pathogens from culture-negative 
CSF specimens from meningitis patients receiving early antibiotic treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: PCR-Mass could be used for the molecular detection of bacterial 
meningitis and tuberculosis, especially when early antibiotic treatment has been 
administered to the suspected patients.

DOI: 10.7754/Clin.Lab.2018.180122
PMID: 29945321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Epidemiol Infect. 2018 Aug;146(11):1433-1444. doi:
10.1017/S0950268818001528.  Epub 2018 Jun 27.

Campylobacter control measures in indoor broiler chicken: critical re-assessment 
of cost-utility and putative barriers to implementation.

Pitter JG(1), Vokó Z(1), Józwiak Á(2), Berkics A(2).

Author information:
(1)Syreon Research Institute,65/A Mexikói street,1142 Budapest,Hungary.
(2)National Food Chain Safety Office,24 Keleti Károly street,1024 
Budapest,Hungary.

As campylobacteriosis is one of the most important foodborne infections, a 
European Union (EU)-27 level cost-effectiveness model has been developed on the 
socio-economic costs and benefits of applying certain control measures for the 
reduction of Campylobacter in broiler meat. This is expected to be a gold 
standard for food safety policymakers in the EU; hence, the validity of its 
modelling assumptions is essential. The authors of the present paper conducted 
an independent review of model input parameters on health and economic burden 
and found that the model most probably overestimated the burden of human 
campylobacteriosis. A discounted, quality-adjusted life year (QALY)-based 
European estimate has been developed for human campylobacteriosis and resulted 
in 15.23 QALY loss per 1000 human gastroenteritis cases. Country-specific cost 
of illness estimates have been developed for various countries in the EU-27. 
Based on these model adaptations, a selected Campylobacter control strategy was 
re-assessed and its high cost-effectiveness was confirmed at the EU level, and 
also in all but three Member States. Bacteriocin treatment or vaccination of the 
animals, two alternative control measures were also re-evaluated, and these 
strategies seemed to be far less cost-effective than the investigated strategy. 
Putative barriers to the rapid implementation of the investigated Campylobacter 
control strategy are discussed, and potential solutions are proposed. Further 
research is required on stakeholder perspectives pertaining to the realistic 
barriers and implementation opportunities.

DOI: 10.1017/S0950268818001528
PMCID: PMC9133679
