
Fu JP(1), Zhao B(1), Li YQ(1), Liu SS(1), Yin WH(1), Huang JQ(1), Zhou CF(1), 
Zhang SK(1), He DC(1), Han JL(1).

Author information:
(1)South China Institute of Environmental Sciences, Ministry of Environmental 
Protection, Guangzhou 510655, China.

The emissions characteristics of 16 kinds of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons 
(PAHs) in ambient air during the waste tire retreading process (open-air 
storage, mixing, vulcanization, and grinding processes) and in workers' 
dormitory were analyzed. In addition, the occupational health risk of the 
workers was evaluated. Results showed that PAHs were detected in all retreading 
processes and in the workers' dormitory. The highest concentration site was the 
mixing process, followed by open-air storage and vulcanization process. The 
lowest concentration point was in the grinding process. The average 
concentration of PAHs in the workers' dormitory was 11.1 ng·m-3. The PAHs at all 
sampling points were largely phenanthrene (Phe), fluoranthene (Flu), anthracene 
(Ant), and pyrene (Pry), which also had a stronger linear correlation with the 
total PAH concentration. An analysis of the benzene rings showed that three ring 
and four ring were the majority, while two ring, five ring, and six ring 
components accounted for less than 10%. Results of the possible influencing 
factors of the PAHs revealed that the open-air storage and dormitory might be 
affected by a combustion source, but the mixing, vulcanization, and grinding 
processes might be affected by rubber oil. The principal component analysis 
(PCA) and cluster analysis showed that the spatial location of all sites would 
significantly influence the distribution of PAHs during the tire retreading 
process. The health risk assessment showed that occupational workers had a lower 
risk of lifelong cancer, and there was little influence on life expectancy.

DOI: 10.13227/j.hjkx.201710025
PMID: 29965656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Nutrients. 2018 Jun 30;10(7):854. doi: 10.3390/nu10070854.

How Healthy Lifestyle Factors at Midlife Relate to Healthy Aging.

Atallah N(1), Adjibade M(2), Lelong H(3)(4), Hercberg S(5)(6), Galan P(7), 
Assmann KE(8), Kesse-Guyot E(9).

Author information:
(1)Nutritional Epidemiology Research Team (EREN), Epidemiology and Statistics 
Research Center, U1153 National Institute of Health and Medical Research 
(INSERM), U1125 National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA), National 
Conservatory of Arts and Crafts (CNAM), Paris 13 University, Sorbonne Paris Cité 
COMUE, F-93017 Bobigny, France. nathalie.atallah@agroparistech.fr.
(2)Nutritional Epidemiology Research Team (EREN), Epidemiology and Statistics 
Research Center, U1153 National Institute of Health and Medical Research 
(INSERM), U1125 National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA), National 
Conservatory of Arts and Crafts (CNAM), Paris 13 University, Sorbonne Paris Cité 
COMUE, F-93017 Bobigny, France. m.adjibade@eren.smbh.univ-paris13.fr.
(3)Nutritional Epidemiology Research Team (EREN), Epidemiology and Statistics 
Research Center, U1153 National Institute of Health and Medical Research 
(INSERM), U1125 National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA), National 
Conservatory of Arts and Crafts (CNAM), Paris 13 University, Sorbonne Paris Cité 
COMUE, F-93017 Bobigny, France. helene_lelong@hotmail.com.
(4)AP-HP, Diagnosis and Therapeutic Center, Faculty of Medicine, Hôtel-Dieu 
Hospital, Paris-Descartes University, F-75004 Paris, France. 
helene_lelong@hotmail.com.
(5)Nutritional Epidemiology Research Team (EREN), Epidemiology and Statistics 
Research Center, U1153 National Institute of Health and Medical Research 
(INSERM), U1125 National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA), National 
Conservatory of Arts and Crafts (CNAM), Paris 13 University, Sorbonne Paris Cité 
COMUE, F-93017 Bobigny, France. s.hercberg@eren.smbh.univ-paris13.fr.
(6)Département de Santé Publique, Hôpital Avicenne, F-93017 Bobigny, France. 
s.hercberg@eren.smbh.univ-paris13.fr.
(7)Nutritional Epidemiology Research Team (EREN), Epidemiology and Statistics 
Research Center, U1153 National Institute of Health and Medical Research 
(INSERM), U1125 National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA), National 
Conservatory of Arts and Crafts (CNAM), Paris 13 University, Sorbonne Paris Cité 
COMUE, F-93017 Bobigny, France. p.galan@eren.smbh.univ-paris13.fr.
(8)Nutritional Epidemiology Research Team (EREN), Epidemiology and Statistics 
Research Center, U1153 National Institute of Health and Medical Research 
(INSERM), U1125 National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA), National 
Conservatory of Arts and Crafts (CNAM), Paris 13 University, Sorbonne Paris Cité 
COMUE, F-93017 Bobigny, France. k.assmann@eren.smbh.univ-paris13.fr.
(9)Nutritional Epidemiology Research Team (EREN), Epidemiology and Statistics 
Research Center, U1153 National Institute of Health and Medical Research 
(INSERM), U1125 National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA), National 
Conservatory of Arts and Crafts (CNAM), Paris 13 University, Sorbonne Paris Cité 
COMUE, F-93017 Bobigny, France. e.kesse@eren.smbh.univ-paris13.fr.

With increasing life expectancies worldwide, it is an important public health 
issue to identify factors that influence the quality of aging. We aimed to 
investigate the individual and combined roles of lifestyle factors at midlife 
for healthy aging (HA). We analyzed data from 2203 participants of the French 
&rdquo;Suppl&eacute;mentation en Vitamines et Min&eacute;raux 
Antioxydants&rdquo; (SU.VI.MAX) cohort aged 45⁻60 years at baseline (1994⁻1995), 
and assessed the combined impact of lifestyle factors (weight, smoking status, 
physical activity, alcohol consumption, and diet) on HA (absence of chronic 
diseases and function-limiting pain, good physical and cognitive functioning, 
functional independence, no depressive symptoms, and good social and 
self-perceived health) with a five-component healthy lifestyle index (HLI). 
Relative risks (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were estimated using a 
robust-error-variance Poisson regression. Approximately 39% of our sample aged 
healthily. After adjustment for potential confounders, a one-point increase in 
HLI was related to an 11% higher probability of HA (95% CI = 6%, 16%; p < 
0.001). The proportions of HA attributable to specific factors based on the 
&ldquo;population attributable risk&rdquo; concept were 7.6%, 6.0%, 7.8%, and 
16.5% for body mass index (BMI), physical activity, diet quality, and smoking 
status, respectively. This study highlights the importance of healthy lifestyle 
habits at midlife for the promotion of good overall health during aging.

DOI: 10.3390/nu10070854
PMCID: PMC6073192
PMID: 29966372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


364. Autophagy. 2018;14(9):1596-1619. doi: 10.1080/15548627.2018.1476810. Epub
2018  Jul 26.

HIV-1 TAT-mediated microglial activation: role of mitochondrial dysfunction and 
defective mitophagy.

Thangaraj A(1), Periyasamy P(1), Liao K(1), Bendi VS(1), Callen S(1), Pendyala 
G(2), Buch S(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Pharmacology and Experimental Neuroscience , University of 
Nebraska Medical Center , Omaha , NE , USA.
(2)b Department of Anesthesiology , University of Nebraska Medical Center , 
Omaha , NE , USA.

Erratum in
    Autophagy. 2021 Mar;17(3):831-832.

While the advent of combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) has dramatically 
increased the life expectancy of HIV-1 infected individuals, paradoxically, 
however, the prevalence of HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorders is on the 
rise. Based on the premise that the cytotoxic HIV-1 protein, transactivator of 
transcription (TAT), a known activator of glial cells that is found to persist 
in the central nervous system (CNS) despite cART, we sought to explore the role 
of defective mitophagy in HIV-1 TAT-mediated microglial activation. Our results 
demonstrated that exposure of mouse primary microglia to HIV-1 TAT resulted in 
cellular activation involving altered mitochondrial membrane potential that was 
accompanied by accumulation of damaged mitochondria. Exposure of microglia to 
HIV-1 TAT resulted in increased expression of mitophagy signaling proteins, such 
as PINK1, PRKN, and DNM1L, with a concomitant increase in the formation of 
autophagosomes, as evidenced by increased expression of BECN1 and MAP1LC3B-II. 
Intriguingly, exposure of cells to HIV-1 TAT also resulted in increased 
expression of SQSTM1, signifying thereby a possible blockade of the mitophagy 
flux, leading, in turn, to the accumulation of mitophagosomes. Interestingly, 
HIV-1 TAT-mediated activation of microglia was associated with decreased rate of 
extracellular acidification and mitochondrial oxygen consumption and increased 
expression of proinflammatory cytokines, such as Tnf, Il1b, and Il6. HIV-1 
TAT-mediated defective mitophagy leading to microglial activation was further 
validated in vivo in the brains of HIV-1 transgenic rats. In conclusion, HIV-1 
TAT activates microglia by increasing mitochondrial damage via defective 
mitophagy.
ABBREVIATIONS: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; Δψm: mitochondrial membrane potential; 
ACTB: actin, beta; AIF1: allograft inflammatory factor 1; ATP: adenosine 
triphosphate; BAF: bafilomycin A1; BECN1: beclin 1, autophagy related; cART: 
combined antiretroviral therapy; CNS: central nervous system; DNM1L: dynamin 1 
like; DMEM: Dulbecco modified Eagle medium; DAPI: 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole‎; 
ECAR: extracellular acidification rate; FBS: fetal bovine serum; FCCP: 
trifluoromethoxy carbonylcyanide phenylhydrazone; GAPDH: 
glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; HAND: HIV-1-associated neurocognitive 
disorders; HIV-1 TAT: human immunodeficiency virus-1 transactivator of 
transcription; IL1B: interleukin 1, beta; IL6: interleukin 6; ITGAM: integrin 
subunit alpha M; MAP1LC3B: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; 
mPMs: mouse primary microglial cells; MRC: maximal respiratory capacity; mt-CO1: 
mitochondrially encoded cytochrome c oxidase; mt-ND6: mitochondrially encoded 
NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase core subunit 6; NFKB1: nuclear factor kappa B 
subunit 1; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; OCR: oxygen consumption 
rate; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PINK1: PTEN induced putative kinase 1; 
PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; ROS: reactive oxygen species; 
siRNA: small interfering RNA; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; TNF: tumor necrosis 
factor.

DOI: 10.1080/15548627.2018.1476810
PMCID: PMC6135576
PMID: 29966509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. World J Surg Oncol. 2018 Jul 2;16(1):123. doi: 10.1186/s12957-018-1426-2.

Oncocytoma managed by active surveillance in a transplant allograft kidney: a 
case report.

Pagano D(1), di Francesco F(1), Rosa L(2), Nwaiwu CA(3), Li Petri S(1), 
Gruttadauria S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department for the Treatment and Study of Abdominal Diseases and Abdominal 
Transplantation, IRCCS-ISMETT (Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere 
Scientifico - Istituto Mediterraneo per i Trapianti e Terapie ad alta 
specializzazione), UPMC (University of Pittsburgh Medical Center) Italy, Via E. 
Tricomi 5, 90127, Palermo, Italy.
(2)Department of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Services, IRCCS-ISMETT, UPMC Italy, 
Palermo, Italy.
(3)University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(4)Department for the Treatment and Study of Abdominal Diseases and Abdominal 
Transplantation, IRCCS-ISMETT (Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere 
Scientifico - Istituto Mediterraneo per i Trapianti e Terapie ad alta 
specializzazione), UPMC (University of Pittsburgh Medical Center) Italy, Via E. 
Tricomi 5, 90127, Palermo, Italy. sgruttadauria@ismett.edu.

BACKGROUND: The ethical implications of the utilization of kidneys with solid 
renal masses (SRMs) in transplantation are the subject of lively debate in the 
transplantation community and beyond. One of such implications is that as the 
life expectancy of renal transplant patients improve, the prevalence of SRMs in 
donors is likely to increase. We report a case of an oncocytoma in a renal 
allograft complicating a deceased-donor kidney transplant.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 60-year-old woman received and underwent deceased-donor 
renal transplantation for end-stage renal disease after a waiting-list period of 
11 years. Kidney Doppler ultrasound (DUS) of the deceased donor was negative for 
any nodular lesion. The finding of the DUS, done on postoperative day 1, to 
assess the patency of the graft, was suspicious for an acute arterial thrombosis 
but did not reveal any focal irregularities. An ensuing computed tomography (CT) 
scan did not show any arterial complications but serendipitously revealed a 
2.4-cm lesion on the upper pole of the renal allograft, which was not detected 
during the back-table or ultrasonography monitoring. Histology of the biopsied 
lesion was consistent with oncocytoma. However, because the eosinophilic variant 
of chromophobe renal cell carcinoma may morphologically resemble renal 
oncocytoma, immunohistochemical staining was performed. The results were 
negative, ruling out chromophobe RCC. After discussing the therapeutic options 
and potential related outcomes with the patient, we found no reason for 
resection of the lesion or an allograft nephrectomy, given the low risk of 
malignant transformation in an oncocytoma. Active surveillance of the benign 
tumor was done with ultrasonography, every 2 months, for the first year and, 
then, with magnetic resonance imaging, every year. The patient received 
mycophenolate-mofetil, tacrolimus, and prednisone throughout the 5-year 
follow-up period, and the regimen for immunosuppression was not changed despite 
the presence of the renal mass. After 60 months, we report that none of the 
radiological findings have shown any morphological changes of the lesion, and 
the patient is well.
CONCLUSION: To the best of our knowledge, we report the first case of an 
oncocytoma in a renal allograft complicating a deceased-donor kidney transplant, 
which was successfully managed by active surveillance.

DOI: 10.1186/s12957-018-1426-2
PMCID: PMC6029171
PMID: 29966524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. In details, our manuscript does not report on or involve the use of 
any animal or human data or tissue, and not contain any individual persons’ 
data, so this section is not applicable to our submission. CONSENT FOR 
PUBLICATION: Not applicable. In details, our manuscript does not contain any 
individual persons’ data, so this section is not applicable to our submission. 
COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing interests. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


366. Transl Neurosci. 2018 Jun 22;9:67-71. doi: 10.1515/tnsci-2018-0012.
eCollection  2018.

Photobiomodulation Optimization for Spinal Cord Injury Rat Phantom Model.

Shuaib A(1), Bourisly AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Engineering Unit, Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Kuwait University, Kuwait city, Kuwait.

Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) causes interruption along the severed axonal tract(s) 
resulting in complete or partial loss of sensation and motor function. SCI can 
cause tetraplegia or paraplegia. Both these conditions can have lifelong 
excessive medical costs, as well as can reduce life expectancy. Preclinical 
research showed that Photobiomodulation therapy (PBMT), also known as Low-level 
laser (light) therapy (LLLT), possesses reparative and regenerative capabilities 
that have the potential to be used as a complimentary or supplementary SCI 
therapy. Despite the promising effects of PBMT, there are still no standardized 
irradiation parameters (i.e. different wavelengths, power, fluence, irradiance, 
beam type, beam diameters, and irradiation time) and there is also a lack of 
standardized experimental protocol(s), which makes it difficult to compare 
different studies. It is, nonetheless, essential to standardize such irradiation 
parameters in order to provide better PBMTs. The aim of this study, therefore, 
is to evaluate the delivery of light in a 3D voxelated SCI rat model for PBMT 
using different irradiation parameters (wavelengths: 660, 810, and 980 nm; beam 
types: Gaussian and Flat beam; and beam diameters: 0.04-1.2 cm) using Monte 
Carlo simulation. This study also aids in providing standardization for 
preclinical research for PBMT, which will eventually translate into clinical 
standardization upon clinical research studies and results.

DOI: 10.1515/tnsci-2018-0012
PMCID: PMC6024694
PMID: 29967691


367. Ann Surg Oncol. 2018 Oct;25(10):2795-2800. doi: 10.1245/s10434-018-6584-5.
Epub  2018 Jul 2.

Select Choices in Benign Breast Disease: An Initiative of the American Society 
of Breast Surgeons for the American Board of Internal Medicine Choosing 
Wisely(®) Campaign.

Rao R(1), Ludwig K(2), Bailey L(3), Berry TS(4), Buras R(5), Degnim A(6), 
Fayanju OM(7), Froman J(8), Golesorkhi N(9), Greenburg C(10), Ma AT(11), Mautner 
SK(12), Krontiras H(13), Sowden M(14), Wexelman B(15), Landercasper J(16).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Breast Surgery, Columbia University 
Medical Center, New York, NY, USA. rr3181@cumc.columbia.edu.
(2)University of Indiana, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(3)Bay Area Breast Surgeons, Oakland, CA, USA.
(4)Norton Surgical Specialists, Louisville, KY, USA.
(5)Anne Arundel Medical Center, Annapolis, MD, USA.
(6)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(7)Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.
(8)Mayo Clinic Health System, Owatonna, MN, USA.
(9)Sentara Comprehensive Breast Center, Lorton, VA, USA.
(10)University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA.
(11)Mount Sinai Health System, New York, NY, USA.
(12)Miami Cancer Institute, Miami, FL, USA.
(13)University of Alabama, Birmingham, AL, USA.
(14)The University of Vermont Medical Center, Burlington, VT, USA.
(15)Trihealth Cancer Institute, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(16)Gundersen Medical Foundation, La Crosse, WI, USA.

BACKGROUND: Up to 50% of all women encounter benign breast problems. In contrast 
to breast cancer, high-level evidence is not available to guide treatment. 
Management is therefore largely based on individual physician 
experience/training. The American board of internal medicine (ABIM) initiated 
its Choosing Wisely® campaign to promote conversations between patients and 
physicians about challenging the use of tests or procedures which may not be 
necessary. The American society of breast surgeons (ASBrS) Patient safety and 
quality committee (PSQC) chose to participate in this campaign in regard to the 
management of benign breast disease.
METHODS: The PSQC solicited initial candidate measures. PSQC surgeons represent 
a wide variety of practices. The resulting measures were ranked by modified 
Delphi appropriateness methodology in two rounds. The final list was approved by 
ASBrS and endorsed by the ABIM.
RESULTS: The final five measures are as follows. (1) Don't routinely excise 
areas of pseuodoangiomatous stromal hyperplasia (PASH) of the breast in patients 
who are not having symptoms from it. (2) Don't routinely surgically excise 
biopsy-proven fibroadenomas that are < 2 cm. (3) Don't routinely operate for a 
breast abscess without an initial attempt to percutaneously aspirate. (4) Don't 
perform screening mammography in asymptomatic patients with normal exams who 
have less than a 5-years life expectancy. (5) Don't routinely drain nonpainful, 
fluid-filled cysts.
CONCLUSIONS: The ASBrS Choosing Wisely® measures that address benign breast 
disease management are easily accessible to patients via the internet. Consensus 
was reached by PSQC regarding these recommendations. These measures provide 
guidance for shared decision-making.

DOI: 10.1245/s10434-018-6584-5
PMCID: PMC6512861
PMID: 29968026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Anal Chem. 2018 Jul 17;90(14):8290-8294. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.8b02062.
Epub  2018 Jul 5.

Phosphorothioated Primers Lead to Loop-Mediated Isothermal Amplification at Low 
Temperatures.

Cai S(1), Jung C(2), Bhadra S(3), Ellington AD(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Analysis and Drug Metabolism, Zhejiang Province 
Key Laboratory of Anti-Cancer Drug Research , Zhejiang University , Hangzhou , 
Zhejiang 310058 , China.
(2)Division of Biotechnology , College of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea 
University , Seoul 02841 , Republic of Korea.
(3)Institute for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Department of Molecular 
Biosciences , University of Texas at Austin , Austin , Texas 78712 , United 
States.

Loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) is an extremely powerful tool for 
the detection of nucleic acids with high sensitivity and specificity. However, 
LAMP shows optimal performance at around 65 °C, which limits applications in 
point-of-care-testing (POCT). Here, we have developed a version of LAMP that 
uses phosphorothioated primers (PS-LAMP) to enable more efficient hairpin 
formation and extension at the termini of growing concatamers, and that 
therefore works at much lower temperatures. By including additional factors such 
as chaotropes (urea) and single-stranded DNA binding protein (SSB), the 
sensitivities and selectivities for amplicon detection with PS-LAMP at 40 °C 
were comparable with a regular LAMP reaction at 65 °C.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.8b02062
PMID: 29968462


369. Sci Rep. 2018 Jul 3;8(1):10037. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-27946-5.

Probabilistic Prognostic Estimates of Survival in Metastatic Cancer Patients 
(PPES-Met) Utilizing Free-Text Clinical Narratives.

Banerjee I(1), Gensheimer MF(2), Wood DJ(3), Henry S(3), Aggarwal S(2), Chang 
DT(2), Rubin DL(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Data Science, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, 
USA. imonb@stanford.edu.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Biomedical Data Science, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, 
USA.
(4)Biomedical Data Science, Radiology, and Medicine (BMIR) Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA, USA.

We propose a deep learning model - Probabilistic Prognostic Estimates of 
Survival in Metastatic Cancer Patients (PPES-Met) for estimating short-term life 
expectancy (>3 months) of the patients by analyzing free-text clinical notes in 
the electronic medical record, while maintaining the temporal visit sequence. In 
a single framework, we integrated semantic data mapping and neural embedding 
technique to produce a text processing method that extracts relevant information 
from heterogeneous types of clinical notes in an unsupervised manner, and we 
designed a recurrent neural network to model the temporal dependency of the 
patient visits. The model was trained on a large dataset (10,293 patients) and 
validated on a separated dataset (1818 patients). Our method achieved an area 
under the ROC curve (AUC) of 0.89. To provide explain-ability, we developed an 
interactive graphical tool that may improve physician understanding of the basis 
for the model's predictions. The high accuracy and explain-ability of the 
PPES-Met model may enable our model to be used as a decision support tool to 
personalize metastatic cancer treatment and provide valuable assistance to the 
physicians.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-27946-5
PMCID: PMC6030075
PMID: 29968730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


370. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2018 Jul 3;7(7):CD012522. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD012522.pub2.

Negative pressure wound therapy for open traumatic wounds.

Iheozor-Ejiofor Z(1), Newton K, Dumville JC, Costa ML, Norman G, Bruce J.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of Central Lancashire, Harrington Building, 
Preston, Lancashire, UK.

Update of
    doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD012522.

BACKGROUND: Traumatic wounds (wounds caused by injury) range from abrasions and 
minor skin incisions or tears, to wounds with extensive tissue damage or loss as 
well as damage to bone and internal organs. Two key types of traumatic wounds 
considered in this review are those that damage soft tissue only and those that 
involve a broken bone, that is, open fractures. In some cases these wounds are 
left open and negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT) is used as a treatment. 
This medical device involves the application of a wound dressing through which 
negative pressure is applied and tissue fluid drawn away from the area. The 
treatment aims to support wound management, to prepare wounds for further 
surgery, to reduce the risk of infection and potentially to reduce time to 
healing (with or without surgical intervention). There are no systematic reviews 
assessing the effectiveness of NPWT for traumatic wounds.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of NPWT for treating open traumatic wounds in 
people managed in any care setting.
SEARCH METHODS: In June 2018 we searched the Cochrane Wounds Specialised 
Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), Ovid 
MEDLINE (including In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations), Ovid Embase and 
EBSCO CINAHL Plus. We also searched clinical trials registries for ongoing and 
unpublished studies, and scanned reference lists of relevant included studies as 
well as reviews, meta-analyses and health technology reports to identify 
additional studies. There were no restrictions with respect to language, date of 
publication or study setting.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Published and unpublished randomised controlled trials that 
used NPWT for open traumatic wounds involving either open fractures or soft 
tissue wounds. Wound healing, wound infection and adverse events were our 
primary outcomes.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently selected eligible 
studies, extracted data, carried out a 'Risk of bias' assessment and rated the 
certainty of the evidence. Data were presented and analysed separately for open 
fracture wounds and other open traumatic wounds (not involving a broken bone).
MAIN RESULTS: Seven RCTs (1377 participants recruited) met the inclusion 
criteria of this review. Study sample sizes ranged from 40 to 586 participants. 
One study had three arms, which were all included in the review. Six studies 
compared NPWT at 125 mmHg with standard care: one of these studies did not 
report any relevant outcome data. One further study compared NPWT at 75 mmHg 
with standard care and NPWT 125mmHg with NPWT 75 mmHg.Open fracture wounds (four 
studies all comparing NPWT 125 mmHg with standard care)One study (460 
participants) comparing NPWT 125 mmHg with standard care reported the 
proportions of wounds healed in each arm. At six weeks there was no clear 
difference between groups in the number of participants with a healed, open 
fracture wound: risk ratio (RR) 1.01 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.81 to 
1.27); moderate-certainty evidence, downgraded for imprecision.We pooled data on 
wound infection from four studies (596 participants). Follow-up varied between 
studies but was approximately 30 days. On average, it is uncertain whether NPWT 
at 125 mmHg reduces the risk of wound infection compared with standard care (RR 
0.48, 95% CI 0.20 to 1.13; I2 = 56%); very low-certainty evidence downgraded for 
risk of bias, inconsistency and imprecision.Data from one study shows that there 
is probably no clear difference in health-related quality of life between 
participants treated with NPWT 125 mmHg and those treated with standard wound 
care (EQ-5D utility scores mean difference (MD) -0.01, 95% CI -0.08 to 0.06; 364 
participants, moderate-certainty evidence; physical component summary score of 
the short-form 12 instrument MD -0.50, 95% CI -4.08 to 3.08; 329 participants; 
low-certainty evidence downgraded for imprecision).Moderate-certainty evidence 
from one trial (460 participants) suggests that NPWT is unlikely to be a 
cost-effective treatment for open fractures in the UK. On average, NPWT was more 
costly and conferred few additional quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) when 
compared with standard care. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was GBP 
267,910 and NPWT was shown to be unlikely to be cost effective at a range of 
cost-per-QALYs thresholds. We downgraded the certainty of the evidence for 
imprecision.Other open traumatic wounds (two studies, one comparing NPWT 125 
mmHg with standard care and a three-arm study comparing NPWT 125 mmHg, NPWT 75 
mmHg and standard care)Pooled data from two studies (509 participants) suggests 
no clear difference in risk of wound infection between open traumatic wounds 
treated with NPWT at 125 mmHg or standard care (RR 0.61, 95% CI 0.31 to 1.18); 
low-certainty evidence downgraded for risk of bias and imprecision.One trial 
with 463 participants compared NPWT at 75 mmHg with standard care and with NPWT 
at 125 mmHg. Data on wound infection were reported for each comparison. It is 
uncertain if there is a difference in risk of wound infection between NPWT 75 
mmHg and standard care (RR 0.44, 95% CI 0.17 to 1.10; 463 participants) and 
uncertain if there is a difference in risk of wound infection between NPWT 75 
mmHg and 125 mmHg (RR 1.04, 95% CI 0.31 to 3.51; 251 participants. We downgraded 
the certainty of the evidence for risk of bias and imprecision.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is moderate-certainty evidence for no clear 
difference between NPWT and standard care on the proportion of wounds healed at 
six weeks for open fracture wounds. There is moderate-certainty evidence that 
NPWT is not a cost-effective treatment for open fracture wounds. 
Moderate-certainty evidence means that the true effect is likely to be close to 
the estimate of the effect, but there is a possibility that it is substantially 
different. It is uncertain whether there is a difference in risk of wound 
infection, adverse events, time to closure or coverage surgery, pain or 
health-related quality of life between NPWT and standard care for any type of 
open traumatic wound.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD012522.pub2
PMCID: PMC6513538
PMID: 29969521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Zipporah Iheozor‐Ejiofor: none known. Katy 
Newton: none known. Jo Dumville: received research funding from the National 
Institute for Health Research (NIHR) UK for the production of systematic reviews 
focusing on high priority Cochrane Reviews in the prevention and treatment of 
wounds. Matthew Costa: was the Chief Investigator of an included study but did 
not undertake any data extraction or assessment for this study. KCI and Smith & 
Nephew supplied the hospitals involved in the trial with NWPT dressings at cost 
for the purposes of the trial. The University of Oxford is paid consultancy fees 
from UCB and Pluristem for work not related to this review. He receives a small 
honorarium as an Editor of the Bone and Joint Journal, and as a Course Director 
for the AO foundation. Gill Norman: my employment at the University of 
Manchester was funded through an NIHR (UK National Institute for Health 
Research) grant focusing on high priority Cochrane reviews in the prevention and 
treatment of wounds. Julie Bruce: is a co‐author on a clinical trial included 
within the review but did not undertake any data extraction or assessment for 
this study.


371. J Orthop Surg Res. 2018 Jul 3;13(1):162. doi: 10.1186/s13018-018-0873-3.

Dynamic hip kinematics during squatting before and after total hip arthroplasty.

Komiyama K(1), Hamai S(2), Hara D(1), Ikebe S(3), Higaki H(4), Yoshimoto K(1), 
Shiomoto K(1), Gondo H(4), Wang Y(4), Nakashima Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu 
University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka, 812-8582, Japan.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu 
University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka, 812-8582, Japan. 
hamachan@ortho.med.kyushu-u.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Creative Engineering, National Institute of Technology, 
Kitakyushu College, 5-20-1 Shii, Kokuraminami-ku, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka, 802-0985, 
Japan.
(4)Department of Life Science, Faculty of Life Science, Kyushu Sangyo 
University, 2-3-1 Matsugadai, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka, 813-0004, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The difference in in vivo kinematics before and after total hip 
arthroplasty (THA) for the same subjects and the clearance between the liner and 
neck during squatting have been unclear. The purpose of the present study was to 
clarify (1) the changes in the in vivo kinematics between prosthetic hips and 
osteoarthritis hips of the same subjects and (2) the extent of the liner-to-neck 
clearance during squatting under weight-bearing conditions.
METHODS: This study consisted of 10 patients who underwent unilateral THA for 
symptomatic osteoarthritis. Using a flat-panel X-ray detector, we obtained 
continuous radiographs during squatting. We analyzed the hip joint's movements 
using three-dimensional-to-two-dimensional model-to-image registration 
techniques. We also quantified the minimum distance at maximum flexion and 
extension, and the minimum angle at maximum flexion between the liner and stem 
neck.
RESULTS: The maximum hip flexion angles post-THA (80.7° [range, 69.4-98.6°]) 
changed significantly compared with the pre-THA values (71.7° [range, 
55.2°-91.2°]). The pelvic tilt angle (posterior +, anterior-) at the maximum hip 
flexion post-THA (10.4° [range, - 6.7° to 26.9°]) was significantly smaller than 
that at pre-THA (16.6° [range, - 3° to 40.3°]). The minimum anterior and 
posterior liner-to-neck distances averaged 10.9 and 8.0 mm, respectively, which 
was a significant difference. The minimum liner-to-neck angle at maximum flexion 
averaged 34.7° (range, 20.7°-46.3°). No liner-to-neck contact occurred in any of 
the hips.
CONCLUSION: THA increased the range of hip joint motion and the pelvis tilted 
anteriorly more after than before THA, with sufficient liner-to-neck clearance 
during squatting. These data may be beneficial for advising patients after THA 
regarding postoperative activity restrictions in daily life.

DOI: 10.1186/s13018-018-0873-3
PMCID: PMC6029136
PMID: 29970119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: All 
procedures performed in studies involving human participants were in accordance 
with the ethical standards of our institution and the 1964 Helsinki Declaration 
and its later amendments or comparable ethical standards. This study was 
approved by the Institutional Review Board (IRB) of Kyushu University (IRB 
number 24–55). The subject was given informed consent to participate in this IRB 
approved study and was informed of the risk of radiation exposure required. 
CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature 
remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and 
institutional affiliations.


372. Cancer Commun (Lond). 2018 Jul 3;38(1):44. doi: 10.1186/s40880-018-0308-x.

Interactions between life expectancy and the incidence and mortality rates of 
cancer in China: a population-based cluster analysis.

Gu X(1), Zheng R(2), Xia C(2), Zeng H(2), Zhang S(2), Zou X(2), Yang Z(2), Li 
H(2), Chen W(3).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Institute, Cancer Hospital, Xinjiang Medical University, 
Urumqi, 830011, P. R. China.
(2)National Office for Cancer Prevention and Control, National Cancer 
Center/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union 
Medical College, Beijing, 100021, P. R. China.
(3)National Office for Cancer Prevention and Control, National Cancer 
Center/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union 
Medical College, Beijing, 100021, P. R. China. chenwq@cicams.ac.cn.

BACKGROUND: The relationship between cancer and life expectancy is well 
established in both developed and developing countries. China is a vast country 
with significant geographical differences in population structure and 
healthcare, and thus provides a unique opportunity to analyze the complex 
relationship between life expectancy and cancer incidence and mortality rates.
METHODS: Cancer data were extracted for a total of 255 units (cities or 
counties) from the 2013 National Central Cancer Registry. Life expectancy data 
at the unit level were obtained from the National Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention. Linear regression analysis was used to analyze the relationship 
between life expectancy and crude incidence and mortality rates of cancer. In a 
separate analysis, life expectancy was rated as low (< 76.0 years), middle 
(76-80 years), or high (> 80 years).
RESULTS: Overall, the cancer incidence and mortality rates positively correlated 
with life expectancy in both sexes (R at 0.37 and 0.50, P < 0.001). The 
correlation was significant for the following cancers: lung, colorectal, 
prostate, bladder and pancreas, as well as for lymphoma in men (R 0.36-0.58, 
P < 0.001), lung, breast, colorectal, thyroid, uterus, and ovary in women (R 
0.18-0.51, P < 0.001). We failed to observe an association between upper 
gastrointestinal cancer and life expectancy. The number of cities/counties with 
low, middle and high life expectancy levels were 110, 101 and 44, respectively. 
The highest age-standardized cancer incidence rate was observed in areas with a 
high life expectancy level (192.83/100,000). The highest age-standardized 
mortality rate was in areas with the lowest life expectancy (118.44/100,000). 
Cancers of the stomach, liver and esophagus are major cancer types in areas with 
low and middle life expectancy. In contrast, areas with high life expectancy had 
high incidence and mortality rates of colorectal cancer, breast cancer in women 
and prostate cancer in men.
CONCLUSIONS: Longer life expectancy is associated with higher overall cancer 
incidence and mortality in China. The cancer pattern also varies substantially 
across areas with different life expectancy levels. Life expectancy levels must 
be considered when developing strategies to prevent and treat cancers.

DOI: 10.1186/s40880-018-0308-x
PMCID: PMC6029078
PMID: 29970165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Lung India. 2018 Jul-Aug;35(4):321-327. doi:
10.4103/lungindia.lungindia_266_17.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and the hallmarks of aging.

Kukrety SP(1), Parekh JD(1), Bailey KL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Creighton University, Omaha, NE, USA.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Nebraska Medical Center; 
Research Service, Veterans Affairs Nebraska-Western Iowa Health Care System, 
Omaha, NE, USA.

Aging is characterized by progressive deterioration of physiological integrity, 
decline in homeostasis, and degeneration of the tissues that occurs after the 
reproductive phase of life is complete, leading to impaired function. This 
deterioration is an important risk factor for chronic lung pathologies such as 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). COPD is a disease that develops 
gradually. Emphysematous changes in the lung take years to develop after 
exposure to cigarette smoke; hence, the vast majority of patients are elderly. 
There has been a dramatic increase in the life expectancy of the general 
population, resulting in an increased burden of chronic lung diseases. There is 
growing evidence that molecular mechanisms involved in aging may also play a 
role in COPD pathogenesis. Recently, the nine hallmarks of aging were 
identified. In this article, we will review the nine hallmarks of aging and how 
each hallmark contributes to the pathogenesis of COPD.

DOI: 10.4103/lungindia.lungindia_266_17
PMCID: PMC6034372
PMID: 29970772

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest


374. Stem Cells Int. 2018 Jun 3;2018:3410168. doi: 10.1155/2018/3410168.
eCollection  2018.

The Efficacy of Graphene Foams for Culturing Mesenchymal Stem Cells and Their 
Differentiation into Dopaminergic Neurons.

Tasnim N(1), Thakur V(2), Chattopadhyay M(2), Joddar B(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Inspired Materials & Stem-Cell Based Tissue Engineering Laboratory (IMSTEL), 
Department of Metallurgical, Materials and Biomedical Engineering, University of 
Texas at El Paso, 500 W University Avenue, El Paso, TX 79968, USA.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Center of Emphasis in Diabetes and 
Metabolism, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, 5001 El Paso Drive, El 
Paso, TX 79905, USA.
(3)Border Biomedical Research Center, University of Texas at El Paso, 500 W 
University Avenue, El Paso, TX 79968, USA.

The implantation of stem cells in vivo is the ideal approach for the restoration 
of normal life functions, such as replenishing the decreasing levels of affected 
dopaminergic (DA) neurons during neurodegenerative disease conditions. However, 
combining stem cells with biomaterial scaffolds provides a promising strategy 
for engineering tissues or cellular delivery for directed stem cell 
differentiation as a means of replacing diseased/damaged tissues. In this study, 
mouse mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) were differentiated into DA neurons using 
sonic hedgehog, fibroblast growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, and 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor, while they were cultured within 
collagen-coated 3D graphene foams (GF). The differentiation into DA neurons 
within the collagen-coated GF and controls (collagen gels, plastic) was 
confirmed using β-III tubulin, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), and NeuN positive 
immunostaining. Enhanced expression of β-III tubulin, TH, and NeuN and an 
increase in the average neurite extension length were observed when cells were 
differentiated within collagen-coated GF in comparison with collagen gels. 
Furthermore, these graphene-based scaffolds were not cytotoxic as MSC seemed to 
retain viability and proliferated substantially during in vitro culture. In 
summary, these results suggest the utility of 3D graphene foams towards the 
differentiation of DA neurons from MSC, which is an important step for neural 
tissue engineering applications.

DOI: 10.1155/2018/3410168
PMCID: PMC6008666
PMID: 29971110


375. AIDS Behav. 2019 Feb;23(2):523-533. doi: 10.1007/s10461-018-2205-3.

Modelling the Epidemiological Impact and Cost-Effectiveness of PrEP for HIV 
Transmission in MSM in China.

Zhang L(1)(2)(3), Peng P(3), Wu Y(4), Ma X(1), Soe NN(1), Huang X(5), Wu H(5), 
Markowitz M(4), Meyers K(6).

Author information:
(1)Research Centre for Public Health, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.
(2)Melbourne Sexual Health Centre, Alfred Health, Melbourne, Australia.
(3)Central Clinical School, Faculty of Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(4)Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center, The Rockfeller University, New York, NY, 
USA.
(5)Center for Infectious Diseases, Beijing You'an Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China.
(6)Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center, The Rockfeller University, New York, NY, 
USA. kmeyers@adarc.org.

Risk of HIV infection is high in Chinese MSM, with an annual HIV incidence 
ranging from 3.41 to 13.7/100 person-years. Tenofovir-based PrEP is effective in 
preventing HIV transmission in MSM. This study evaluates the epidemiological 
impact and cost-effectiveness of implementing PrEP in Chinese MSM over the next 
two decades. A compartmental model for HIV was used to forecast the impact of 
PrEP on number of infections, deaths, and disability-adjusted life years (DALY) 
averted. We also provide an estimate of the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) and the cost per DALY averted of the intervention. Without PrEP, there 
will be 1.1-3.0 million new infections and 0.7-2.3 million HIV-related deaths in 
the next two decades. Moderate PrEP coverage (50%) would prevent 0.17-0.32 
million new HIV infections. At Truvada's current price in China, daily oral PrEP 
costs $46,813-52,008 per DALY averted and is not cost-effective; on-demand 
Truvada reduces ICER to $25,057-27,838 per DALY averted, marginally 
cost-effective; daily generic tenofovir-based regimens further reduce ICER to 
$3675-8963, wholly cost-effective. The cost of daily oral Truvada PrEP regimen 
would need to be reduced by half to achieve cost-effectiveness and realize the 
public health good of preventing hundreds of thousands of HIV infections among 
MSM in China.

DOI: 10.1007/s10461-018-2205-3
PMCID: PMC6318074
PMID: 29971734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest MM receives research 
support in the form of grants from GSK, ViiV, Merck, and Gilead. He is a 
consultant to Merck and GSK and participates in the speaker bureau for Gilead 
Sciences. KM receives research support from a grant from GSK. No other authors 
report any conflict of interest.


376. Health Syst Transit. 2017 Sep;19(5):1-166.

Greece: Health System Review.

Economou C(1), Kaitelidou D(2), Karanikolos M(3), Maresso A(3).

Author information:
(1)Panteion University of Social and Political Science, Greece.
(2)University of Athens, Greece.
(3)European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies.

This analysis of the Greek health system reviews developments in its 
organization and governance, health financing, health care provision, health 
reforms and health system performance. The economic crisis has had a major 
impact on Greek society and the health system. Health status indicators such as 
life expectancy at birth and at age sixtyfive are above the average in the 
European Union but health inequalities and particular risk factors such as high 
smoking rates and child obesity persist. The highly centralized health system is 
a mixed model incorporating both tax-based financing and social health 
insurance. Historically, a number of enduring structural and operational 
inadequacies within the health system required addressing, but reform attempts 
often failed outright or stagnated at the implementation phase. The countrys 
Economic Adjustment Programme has acted as a catalyst to tackle a large number 
of wide-ranging reforms in the health sector, aiming not only to reduce public 
sector spending but also to rectify inequities and inefficiencies. Since 2010, 
these reforms have included the establishment of a single purchaser for the 
National Health System, standardizing the benefits package, re-establishing 
universal coverage and access to health care, significantly reducing 
pharmaceutical expenditure through demand and supply-side measures, and 
important changes to procurement and hospital payment systems; all these 
measures have been undertaken in a context of severe fiscal constraints. A major 
overhaul of the primary care system is the priority in the period 2018-2021. 
Several other challenges remain, such as ensuring adequate funding for the 
health system (and reducing the high levels of out-of-pocket spending on 
health); maintaining universal health coverage and access to needed health 
services; and strengthening health system planning, coordination and governance. 
While the preponderance of reforms implemented so far have focused on reducing 
costs, there is a need to develop this focus into longer-term strategic reforms 
that enhance efficiency while guaranteeing the delivery of health services and 
improving the overall quality of care.

World Health Organization 2017 (acting as the host organization for, and 
secretariat of, the European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies).

PMID: 29972131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. East Mediterr Health J. 2018 Jun 25;24(4):401-404. doi:
10.26719/2018.24.4.401.

How feasible is the life expectancy target in the Saudi Arabian vision for 2030?

Bah S(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Public Health, Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, Dammam, 
Saudi Arabia.

BACKGROUND: Over the period 2016-2030, Saudi Arabia seeks to increase life 
expectancy at birth by 6 years.
AIM: The main aim was to analyse the feasibility of this gain using the 
demographic literature.
METHODS: The demographic literature on recorded high gains in life expectancy 
and the determinants of these gains were reviewed. The findings were examined 
considering the Saudi Arabian context.
RESULTS: Explanations covered demographic and behavioural factors, inequalities, 
health care delivery system, public health provision, health-related policies 
and advancements in science and technology. However, the crucial factor is the 
country's position in the "cardiovascular revolution" (which combines smoking 
prevalence, obesity, lifestyle and related policies).
CONCLUSION: In countries where life expectancy is in the 70s, average yearly 
gains are less than 0.31 years, much lower that the Saudi Arabian target of 0.43 
years. For Saudi Arabia, an average yearly gain of about half this is achievable 
provided the fundamental drivers of life expectancy are addressed.

Publisher: ما مدى إمكانية تحقيق الهدف المتعلق بزيادة العمر المتوقع في رؤية 
المملكة العربية السعودية لعام 2030؟. سليمان باه.
الخلفية: تسعى المملكة العربية السعودية، خلال الفترة 2016-2030 ، إلى زيادة معدل 
العمر المتوقع عند الميلاد بمقدار ست سنوات.
الأهداف: تمثل الهدف الأساسي في تحليل إمكانية تحقيق هذا المكسب باستخدام الدراسات 
السكانية السابقة.
طرق البحث: سجلت الدراسات السكانية السابقة مكاسب عالية تتعلق بزيادة معدل العمر 
المتوقع، واستعرضت الدراسة الحالية محددات هذه المكاسب كما تم استعراض النتائج 
بمراعاة سياق المملكة العربية السعودية.
النتائج: تناولت الشروح العوامل السكانية والسلوكية وأوجه عدم المساواة ونظام تقديم 
الرعاية الصحية وتوفير خدمات الصحة العامة والسياسات والتطورات الصحية في العلوم 
والتكنولوجيا. إلا أن أحد العوامل الحاسمة يتمثل في موقف البلد من “الثورة القلبية 
الوعائية” (التي تجمع بين مستوى انتشار التدخين والبدانة ونمط الحياة والسياسات ذات 
الصلة).
الاستنتاج: في البلدان التي يصل فيها معدل العمر المتوقع إلى السبعينات، يبلغ متوسط 
المكاسب السنوية أقل من 0.31 سنة، وهو ما يقل بكثير عن هدف المملكة المتمثل في 
الوصول إلى 0.43 سنة. وبالنسبة للمملكة، يمكن تحقيق مكسب سنوي متوسط بمقدار نحو نصف 
هذا المعدل شريطة التصدي للمحركات الأساسية لمعدل العمر المتوقع.

Publisher: Dans quelle mesure la cible relative à l’espérance de vie du plan 
Vision 2030 de l’Arabie saoudite est-elle réalisable?
CONTEXTE: L’Arabie saoudite prévoit une augmentation de l’espérance de vie à la 
naissance de 6 ans sur la période 2016- 2030.
OBJECTIFS: L’objectif principal était d’analyser la faisabilité de ce gain en 
utilisant la littérature démographique.
MÉTHODES: La littérature démographique a recensé les gains élevés en termes 
d’espérance de vie, et les déterminants de ces gains ont été évalués. Les 
résultats sont examinés via le prisme du contexte saoudien.
RÉSULTATS: Les explications qui en découlent couvraient les facteurs 
démographiques et comportementaux, les inégalités, le système de prestations de 
soins de santé, la fourniture de services de santé publique, les politiques 
liées à la santé et les avancées dans les domaines de la science et de la 
technologie. Cependant, le facteur crucial est la position du pays au sein de la 
« révolution cardio-vasculaire » (qui combine une réduction de la prévalence du 
tabagisme et de l’obésité, des changements dans le mode de vie et des politiques 
y afférentes).
CONCLUSION: Dans les pays où l’espérance de vie se situe entre 70 et 79 ans, les 
gains annuels moyens sont de moins de 0,31 année, soit beaucoup plus bas que la 
cible de 0,43 année fixée par l’Arabie saoudite. Pour l’Arabie saoudite, un gain 
annuel moyen équivalant à environ la moitié de ces chiffres est réalisable, si 
les facteurs fondamentaux contribuant à l’augmentation de l’espérance de vie 
sont réunis.

Copyright © World Health Organization (WHO) 2018. Some rights reserved. This 
work is available under the CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 IGO license 
(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/igo).

DOI: 10.26719/2018.24.4.401
PMID: 29972235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Cien Saude Colet. 2018 Jun;23(6):1737-1750. doi: 
10.1590/1413-81232018236.04822018.

Changes in health and disease in Brazil and its States in the 30 years since the 
Unified Healthcare System (SUS) was created.

[Article in English, Portuguese; Abstract available in Portuguese from the 
publisher]

Souza MFM(1), Malta DC(2), França EB(3), Barreto ML(4).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Medicina Social, Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro. R. 
São Francisco Xavier 524/1006 A, Maracanã. 20550-900 Rio de Janeiro RJ Brasil. 
fatima.marinho@saude.gov.br.
(2)Escola de Enfermagem, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais (UFMG). Belo 
Horizonte MG Brasil.
(3)Faculdade de Medicina, UFMG. Belo Horizonte MG Brasil.
(4)Instituto de Saúde Coletiva, Universidade Federal da Bahia. Salvador BA 
Brasil.

The Unified Healthcare System (SUS) was created to ensure the population's right 
to universal, free and comprehensive healthcare. This study compares the health 
indicators measured in 1990 to those measured in 2015 in Brazil and its states. 
The goal is to contribute to understanding the role SUS played in changing the 
nation's health profile. Analyses use estimates in the Global Burden of Disease 
(GBD) study for Brazil and its states, and compares 1990 and 2015. The main 
results are increased life expectancy, as well as an increase in the 
population's longevity measured in health-adjusted life expectancy. These in 
turn are due to a sharp decline in mortality due to transmissible diseases, in 
maternal and infant morbi-mortality, and avoidable causes of death. NTCDs are 
the leading cause of death, followed by violence. Poor diet is the leading risk 
factor, followed by metabolic issues. Tobacco use decreased over the period, as 
did infant malnutrition. In the thirty years since the SUS was created, health 
indicators in this country have improved, and major progress has been made to 
reduce inequality across the country's regions.

Publisher: O Sistema Único de Saúde (SUS) foi criado para garantir cuidados de 
saúde universais, gratuitos e abrangentes para a população. O estudo atual visa 
comparar indicadores de saúde em 1990 e 2015, para Brasil e Unidades Federadas, 
contribuindo assim na compreensão do papel do SUS na mudança do perfil sanitário 
do país. Nas análises foram utilizadas estimativas do estudo Carga Global de 
Doença (GBD) para o Brasil e estados, comparando 1990 e 2015. Como principais 
resultados ocorreu queda acentuada da mortalidade por doenças transmissíveis, da 
morbimortalidade materno-infantil e causas evitáveis de morte, e o consequente 
aumento da expectativa de vida saudável da população. As Doenças Crônicas Não 
Transmissíveis (DCNT) lideram como principal causa de morte, seguidas das 
violências. A dieta inadequada lidera entre os fatores de risco, seguida de 
fatores metabólicos; também ocorreu queda do consumo do tabaco, enquanto o maior 
destaque foi a expressiva redução da desnutrição infantil no período. Conclui-se 
que no curso dos trinta anos da implantação do Sistema Único de Saúde (SUS) 
houve melhorias nos indicadores de saúde e um significativo avanço na redução 
das desigualdades em saúde entre as regiões brasileiras.

DOI: 10.1590/1413-81232018236.04822018
PMID: 29972483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Nurs Forum. 2018 Oct;53(4):511-520. doi: 10.1111/nuf.12280. Epub 2018 Jul 4.

Medical assistance in dying (MAiD): Canadian nurses' experiences.

Beuthin R(1), Bruce A(1), Scaia M(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Victoria, Victoria, British Columbia, Canada.

Medical assistance in dying (MAiD) represents a historic change in Canadian 
society and the provision of end-of-life care. In this descriptive narrative 
inquiry, 17 nurses were interviewed during the first 6 months of assisted dying 
becoming a legal option for patients in Canada. Nurses' experiences of either 
providing care for a patient who had chosen MAiD, or declining to participate in 
MAiD, were explored. Findings describe three themes and eight storylines of the 
impact of MAiD on nurses' view of the profession, clinical practice, and 
personally. While most nurses perceived MAiD as an extension of the profession 
and their nursing practice, a small number also expressed moral distress as they 
grappled with assisted dying. Narratives illustrated an ongoing sensemaking 
process and spectrum of emotions. These findings offer insight and provide 
direction for nurses and managers in this new clinical and legal reality. 
Further research is needed to understand more fully the moral distress of some 
nurses, as well as the importance of communicating openly and nonjudgmentally 
with patients, families, and the health-care team.

© 2018 The Authors. Nursing Forum published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/nuf.12280
PMCID: PMC6282783
PMID: 29972596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


