increases in frequency with age. Adolescence is associated with nocturnal 
enuresis, avascular necrosis of the hip, leg ulcerations, delayed puberty, and 
priapism. After age 25 to 30, the frequency of VOC tends to reduce and is 
replaced with signs and symptoms of chronic organ damage, including heart 
failure, pulmonary hypertension, sickle hepatopathy, and sickle cell nephropathy 
(SCN). The primary cause of death in younger patients is usually infection; 
whereas, in older patients, the primary cause of death is mostly irreversible 
organ damage.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 30252273

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Narothama Aeddula declares no 
relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Mainak 
Bardhan declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. 
Disclosure: Krishna Baradhi declares no relevant financial relationships with 
ineligible companies.


262. Am J Public Health. 2018 Dec;108(12):1626-1631. doi:
10.2105/AJPH.2018.304585.  Epub 2018 Sep 25.

America's Declining Well-Being, Health, and Life Expectancy: Not Just a White 
Problem.

Muennig PA(1), Reynolds M(1), Fink DS(1), Zafari Z(1), Geronimus AT(1).

Author information:
(1)Peter A. Muennig is with the Department of Health Policy and Management, 
Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York, NY. Peter A. 
Muennig and Zafar Zafari are with the Global Research Analytics for Population 
Health Center, Mailman School of Public Health. Megan Reynolds is with the 
Department of Sociology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City. David S. Fink is 
with the Department of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health. Arline T. 
Geronimus is with Health Behavior and Health Education, School of Public Health 
and the Population Studies Center, Institute for Social Research, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor.

Although recent declines in life expectancy among non-Hispanic Whites, coined 
"deaths of despair," grabbed the headlines of most major media outlets, this is 
neither a recent problem nor is it confined to Whites. The decline in America's 
health has been described in the public health literature for decades and has 
long been hypothesized to be attributable to an array of worsening psychosocial 
problems that are not specific to Whites. To test some of the dominant 
hypotheses, we show how various measures of despair have been increasing in the 
United States since 1980 and how these trends relate to changes in health and 
longevity. We show that mortality increases among Whites caused by the opioid 
epidemic come on the heels of the crack and HIV syndemic among Blacks. Both 
occurred on top of already higher mortality rates among all Americans relative 
to people in other nations, and both occurred among declines in measures of 
well-being. We believe that the attention given to Whites is distracting 
researchers and policymakers from much more serious, longer-term structural 
problems that affect all Americans.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2018.304585
PMCID: PMC6221922
PMID: 30252522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Cancer Biol Ther. 2019;20(3):240-246. doi: 10.1080/15384047.2018.1523856.
Epub  2018 Sep 25.

Mutations of genes including DNMT3A detected by next-generation sequencing in 
thyroid cancer.

Guo LC, Zhu WD(1), Ma XY(2), Ni H(1), Zhong EJ(3), Shao YW(2)(4), Yu J(1), Gu 
DM(1), Ji SD(5), Xu HD(6), Ji C(3), Yang JM(7), Zhang Y(8).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Pathology , Hospital of Soochow University , Suzhou , China.
(2)b Translational Medicine Research Institution , Geneseeq Technology Inc ., 
Toronto , Ontario , Canada.
(3)c Department of Respiratory Medicine , Hospital of Soochow University , 
Suzhou , China.
(4)d School of Public Health , Nanjing Medical University , Nanjing , China.
(5)e MOH Key Laboratory of Thrombosis and Hemostasis, Collaborative Innovation 
Center of Hematology , Hospital of Soochow University, Jiangsu Institute of 
Hematology , Suzhou , China.
(6)f Department of Pathology , University of Washington Medical Center , Seattle 
, WA , USA.
(7)g Department of Pharmacology, the Penn State Cancer Institute , The 
Pennsylvania State University College of Medicine , Hershey , PA , USA.
(8)h Department of Pharmacology, College of Pharmaceutical Sciences , Soochow 
University , Suzhou , China.

More than 90% of thyroid cancer belongs to the papillary and follicular thyroid 
carcinomas based on pathological subtypes. Papillary and follicular thyroid 
carcinoma are generally associated with a good prognosis. In contrast, other 
pathological subtypes such as poorly-differentiated and anaplastic thyroid 
carcinoma (PDTC and ATC) have a poor clinical outcome with a short life 
expectancy. To identify the genetic variations and biomarkers that may 
potentially distinguish the aggressive form of thyroid cancer, we performed a 
retrospective analysis of the formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumor samples 
from 50 patients who mainly displayed aggressive thyroid cancer using 
next-generation sequencing of 416 solid tumor-related genes. We adopted 
extensive bioinformatic analysis to vigorously remove germline single-nucleotide 
polymorphism and systematic sequencing errors, and report here that mutation in 
DNMT3A gene was significantly enriched in patients with PDTC or ATC.

DOI: 10.1080/15384047.2018.1523856
PMCID: PMC6370393
PMID: 30252567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2019 Jan;160(1):11-21. doi: 
10.1177/0194599818800477. Epub 2018 Sep 25.

Evidence-Based Medicine in Otolaryngology Part 9: Valuing Health Outcomes.

Caulley L(1)(2)(3), Hunink MG(4)(5), Kilty S(2)(3), Metha V(6), Scangas G(7), 
Rodin D(8)(9), Randolph G(7), Shin JJ(7).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)2 Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of Ottawa, 
Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(3)3 The Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(4)4 Department of Epidemiology and Department of Radiology, Erasmus MC, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)5 Center for Health Decision Sciences, Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public 
Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(6)6 Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, New 
York, USA.
(7)7 Department of Otolaryngology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(8)8 Department of Radiation Oncology, Dana Farber/Brigham and Women's Cancer 
Center, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(9)9 Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard T. H. Chan School of 
Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Decisions about resource allocation are increasingly based on value trade-offs 
between health outcomes and cost. This process relies on comprehensive and 
standardized definitions of health status that accurately measure the physical, 
mental, and social well-being of patients across disease states. These metrics, 
assessed through clinical trials, observational studies, and health surveys, can 
facilitate the integration of patient preferences into clinical practice. This 
ninth installment in the Evidence-Based Medicine in Otolaryngology Series is a 
practical overview of health outcome valuation, as well as the integration of 
both quality and quantity of life into standardized metrics for health research, 
program planning, and resource allocation. Tools for measuring preference-based 
health states, measures of effectiveness, and the application of metrics in 
economic evaluations are discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/0194599818800477
PMID: 30252610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Am J Dermatopathol. 2019 Apr;41(4):296-299. doi:
10.1097/DAD.0000000000001246.

Cutaneous Mastocytosis With Predominant Infiltration of Promastocytes.

Knöpfel N(1), Colmenero I(2), Matito A(3), Latour I(1), Noguera-Morel L(1), 
Hernández-Martín A(1), Alvarez-Twose I(3), Torrelo A(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Dermatology, and.
(2)Pathology, Hospital Infantil Universitario Niño Jesús, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Instituto de Estudios de Mastocitosis de Castilla La Mancha (CLMast), 
Hospital Virgen del Valle, Toledo, Spain.

Mastocytosis is a heterogeneous group of disorders with a variable clinical 
course, ranging from indolent disease with normal life expectancy to highly 
aggressive disease. In the skin, mast cells may show a spindle-shape appearance 
or appear as round cells with wide, polygonal cytoplasm. In this study, we 
present a case series of 4 patients with cutaneous childhood-onset mastocytosis 
in whom skin mast cells showed striking nuclear pleomorphism with bilobed and 
multilobed nuclei. Such finding does not seem to represent a malignant phenotype 
of the disease in the skin, although the true biological significance and the 
potential prognostic impact remain to be determined.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000001246
PMID: 30252695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. PLoS One. 2018 Sep 25;13(9):e0203919. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0203919. 
eCollection 2018.

Vertical stratification of bacteria and the chemical compounds in crude 
oil-contaminated soil layers of the semi-deserted Dzungharian Basin.

Yang JK(1), Liang JF(2), Xiao LM(2), Yang Y(2), Chao QF(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Biology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Wuhan Polytechnic 
University, Wuhan, China.
(2)College of Life Science and Technology, Xinjiang University, Urumqi, 
Xinjiang, China.

The largely semi-deserted and deserted Dzungharian Basin sites in the northwest 
of China geologically represent an extension of the Paleozoic Kazakhstan Block 
and were once part of an independent continent. For reasons of overdevelopment 
and unreasonable operations during the process of exploitation and 
transportation, oil pollutants that were discharged into the soil environment 
caused serious pollution in this weak ecosystem. To explore the bacterial 
community composition in detail and their possible origination and potential 
during the natural attenuation of petroleum contaminants in this type of 
ecologic niche, GC-MS and high-throughput sequencing techniques were used to 
resolve the organic compounds and bacterial communities in vertical soil layers. 
The degradation of petroleum contaminants in semi-deserted and deserted soils 
mainly occurred in the layer at a depth of 45-55 cm. During this process, 
aromatic and heterocyclic compounds were significantly enriched in soils. The 
bacterial communities in this basin exhibited a distinct vertical stratification 
from the surface layer down to the bottom soil layer. Considering the 
interaction between the community composition and the geochemical properties, we 
speculate that the degradation of petroleum contaminants in this semi-deserted 
and deserted soil might represent a microorganism-mediated process and mainly 
occur in the deeper soil layer.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0203919
PMCID: PMC6155523
PMID: 30252862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


267. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2019 Feb 1;103(2):397-402. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2018.09.021. Epub 2018 Sep 22.

Cost and Cost-Effectiveness of Image Guided Partial Breast Irradiation in 
Comparison to Hypofractionated Whole Breast Irradiation.

Shah C(1), Ward MC(2), Tendulkar RD(3), Cherian S(3), Vicini F(4), Singer ME(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Taussig Cancer Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, Ohio. Electronic address: shahc4@ccf.org.
(2)Levine Cancer Institute, Atrium Health, Charlotte, North Carolina; Southeast 
Radiation Oncology Group, Charlotte, North Carolina.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Taussig Cancer Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, Ohio.
(4)21st Century Oncology, Michigan Healthcare Professionals, Farmington Hills, 
Michigan.
(5)Department of Population and Quantitative Health Sciences, Case Western 
Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio.

PURPOSE: Hypofractionated whole breast irradiation (HWBI) and accelerated 
partial breast irradiation (APBI) represent two adjuvant radiation therapy 
options after breast-conserving surgery. We performed a cost and 
cost-effectiveness analysis of an external beam image guided APBI technique 
compared with HWBI.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: HWBI was defined as 40 Gy in 15 fractions to the whole 
breast with or without a 10-Gy/5-fraction boost. APBI was 30 Gy in 5 fractions 
per Livi et al and was evaluated as both intensity modulated radiation therapy 
(IMRT) and stereotactic body radiation therapy. The decision analytical model 
measured effectiveness in quality-adjusted life years. Micro-costing was 
conducted to estimate the true cost of the different treatment regimens, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness analysis was performed.
RESULTS: Based on micro-costing, the cost of HWBI was $4551 with boost and $3666 
without boost, compared with $2966 for APBI. Including indirect costs, HWBI with 
boost cost $6160, HWBI without boost cost $4940, and APBI cost $3569. Cost 
savings for APBI compared with HWBI with and without boost was $1585 and $700 
based on direct costs and $2591 and $1371 including indirect costs. APBI was 
also more effective, at 0.2300 quality-adjusted life years compared with 0.2289 
for HWBI with or without boost. Thus, APBI was both less costly and more 
effective. Basing cost on Medicare reimbursement (IMRT) leads to APBI again 
dominating HWBI, but basing cost for APBI on reimbursement billed as 
stereotactic body radiation therapy leads to HWBI being far more cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Image guided partial breast irradiation is less costly to deliver 
and has slightly improved efficacy compared with HWBI, with or without a boost. 
IMRT APBI should be considered a standard-of-care option in appropriately 
selected patients based on efficacy and value.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2018.09.021
PMID: 30253236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Mar Environ Res. 2018 Nov;142:7-20. doi: 10.1016/j.marenvres.2018.09.010.
Epub  2018 Sep 11.

Otolith nucleus chemistry distinguishes Electrona antarctica in the 
westward-flowing Antarctic Slope Current and eastward-flowing Antarctic 
Circumpolar Current off East Antarctica.

Zhu G(1), Duan M(2), Ashford JR(3), Wei L(2), Zhou M(2), Bestley S(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Marine Sciences, Shanghai Ocean University, Shanghai, 201306, PR 
China; National Engineering Research Center for Oceanic Fisheries, Shanghai, 
201306, PR China; Polar Marine Ecosystem Group, Key Laboratory of Sustainable 
Exploitation of Oceanic Fisheries Resources, Ministry of Education, Shanghai 
Ocean University, Shanghai, 201306, PR China. Electronic address: 
gpzhu@shou.edu.cn.
(2)College of Marine Sciences, Shanghai Ocean University, Shanghai, 201306, PR 
China; Polar Marine Ecosystem Group, Key Laboratory of Sustainable Exploitation 
of Oceanic Fisheries Resources, Ministry of Education, Shanghai Ocean 
University, Shanghai, 201306, PR China.
(3)Center for Quantitative Fisheries Ecology, Old Dominion University, 800 West 
46th St., Norfolk, VA, 23529, USA.
(4)Institute for Marine and Antarctic Studies, University of Tasmania, Private 
Bag 129, Hobart, TAS, 7001, Australia; CSIRO Oceans and Atmosphere, GPO Box 
1538, Hobart, TAS, 7001, Australia.

Eastward transport in the Southern Ocean is concentrated in jets associated with 
fronts in the Antarctic Circumpolar Current (ACC), whereas flow along the 
Antarctic continental slope is strongly westward in the Antarctic Slope Current 
(ASC). The dominant mesopelagic fish endemic to the Southern Ocean, Electrona 
antarctica (Günther, 1878), has been linked to Circumpolar Deep Water (CDW) 
transported by the ACC, and a modified version of CDW associated with the ASC. 
In conjunction with a regional-scale hydrographic survey south of the Kerguelen 
Plateau, we sampled fish from the ACC and ASC across Princess Elizabeth Trough 
off East Antarctica, and examined their otolith chemistry. Material laid down in 
the nucleus during early life showed heterogeneity, arguing against a single 
homogeneous population. Instead, it suggested exposure to different environments 
after hatching, consistent with separate transport pathways along the ACC and 
ASC. Despite clear differences between stations documented in the survey, 
material laid down along the edge did not show heterogeneity, suggesting instead 
exposure to similar environments. Seasonal movement northward by ASC fish into 
the ACC may explain both these results, and potential physical mechanisms 
include circulation in the Australian-Antarctic Gyre; northward movement of 
slope waters along the eastern margin of Princess Elizabeth Trough; and seasonal 
extension of sea-ice into the ACC. Such meridional movement would expose fish to 
zonal flow, eastward in the ACC during winter and westward in the ASC during 
summer, promoting regional retention as well as creating opportunities for 
mixing with fish transported along the ACC.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.marenvres.2018.09.010
PMID: 30253918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Thorax. 2019 Feb;74(2):141-156. doi: 10.1136/thoraxjnl-2018-211521. Epub
2018  Sep 25.

Long-term quality-adjusted survival following therapeutic bronchoscopy for 
malignant central airway obstruction.

Ong P(1), Grosu HB(1), Debiane L(1), Casal RF(1), Eapen GA(1), Jimenez CA(1), 
Noor L(1), Ost DE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas, USA.

BACKGROUND: While therapeutic bronchoscopy has been used to treat malignant 
central (CAO) airway obstruction for >25 years, there are no studies quantifying 
the impact of therapeutic bronchoscopy on long-term quality-adjusted survival.
METHODS: We conducted a prospective observational study of consecutive patients 
undergoing therapeutic bronchoscopy for CAO. Patients had follow-up at 1 week 
and monthly thereafter until death. Outcomes included technical success (ie, 
relief of anatomic obstruction), dyspnoea, health-related quality of life 
(HRQOL) and quality-adjusted survival.
RESULTS: Therapeutic bronchoscopy was performed on 102 patients with malignant 
CAO. Partial or complete technical success was achieved in 90% of patients. At 7 
days postbronchoscopy, dyspnoea improved (mean ∆Borg-day-7=-1.8, 95% CI -2.2 to 
-1.3, p<0.0001) and HRQOL improved (median prebronchoscopy 0.618 utiles, 
25%-75% IQR 0.569 to 0.699, mean ∆utility-day-7+0.047 utiles, 95% CI +0.023 to 
0.071, p=0.0002). Improvements in dyspnoea and HRQOL were maintained long-term. 
Compared with the prebronchoscopy baseline, HRQOL per day of life 
postbronchoscopy improved (mean ∆utility-long-term+0.036 utiles, 95% CI +0.014 
to 0.057, p=0.002). Median quality-adjusted survival was 109 quality-adjusted 
life-days (QALDs) (95% CI 74 to 201 QALDs). Factors associated with longer 
quality-adjusted survival included better functional status, treatment-naïve 
tumour, endobronchial disease, less dyspnoea, shorter time from diagnosis to 
bronchoscopy, absence of cardiac disease, bronchoscopic dilation and receiving 
chemotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Therapeutic bronchoscopy improves HRQOL as compared with baseline, 
resulting in approximately a 5.8% improvement in HRQOL per day of life. The 
risk-benefit profile in these carefully selected patients was very favourable.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: Results; NCT03326570.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2019. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/thoraxjnl-2018-211521
PMID: 30254139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


270. Front Neurol. 2018 Sep 11;9:754. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2018.00754. eCollection 
2018.

Patient and Family Caregiver's Neuroticism and Conscientiousness Personality in 
Relation to Quality of Life of Patient With Parkinson's Disease: A 
Cross-Sectional Study Neuroticism and Conscientiousness Personality in Relation 
to QoL of Patient With PD.

Ma X(1), Meng G(1), Tan Y(1), Liu X(1), Zhao Y(1), Yu J(1), Jin A(1), Zhao Y(1), 
Liu X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital, Tongji University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.

Background: Personality impacts life expectancy and comprehensive treatment 
efficacy for patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). However, current research 
fails to involve the family caregiver's personality despite significant external 
support provided by family caregivers. This study explored neuroticism and 
conscientiousness personality factors of the patient and family caregiver 
associated with quality of life (QoL) of PD patients. Methods: 134 couples of 
patients presenting with PD and their family caregivers that met inclusion 
criteria, were recruited for this cross-sectional study at Shanghai Tenth 
People's Hospital from October 2015 to 2017. The Parkinson's Disease 
Questionnaire-39 Items (PDQ-39) for QoL, including the physical component 
summary (PCS) and mental component summary (MCS), the Neuroticism Extraversion 
Openness Five-Factor Inventory (NEO-FFI) for neuroticism and conscientiousness 
personalities, and the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) for PD 
severity questionnaires were employed. Multivariate stepwise linear regression 
determined the contributions of demographic, clinical and personality variables 
in PDQ-39, PCS, and MCS. Results: PD patients and neuroticism were significantly 
associated with total PDQ-39, PCS, and MCS. Additionally, conscientiousness was 
significantly associated with PDQ-39 and PCS. After adding neuroticism and 
caregiver conscientiousness personality, the importance of neuroticism for the 
QoL model dramatically decreased, and caregiver conscientiousness personality 
was associated with lower scores in total PDQ-39 and PCS. Conclusion: We 
revealed a significant association between neuroticism and physical or mental 
status of PD patients; however, this association decreased when caregiver 
conscientiousness was added to the model. Moreover, conscientiousness of 
patients and caregivers were associated with improved QoL.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2018.00754
PMCID: PMC6141918
PMID: 30254602


271. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2018 Sep 11;9:533. doi:
10.3389/fendo.2018.00533.  eCollection 2018.

The Importance of an Early and Accurate MEN1 Diagnosis.

de Laat JM(1), van Leeuwaarde RS(1), Valk GD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrine Oncology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, 
Netherlands.

Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) is a rare autosomal dominant 
inherited condition, causing significant morbidity, and a reduction of life 
expectancy. A timely and accurate diagnosis of MEN1 is paramount to improve 
disease outcomes. This enables early identification of tumor manifestations 
allowing timely treatment for reducing morbidity and improving survival. Current 
management of MEN1 poses two challenges regarding the MEN1 diagnosis: diagnostic 
delay and the issue of phenocopies. A delay in diagnosis can be caused by a 
delay in identifying the index case, and by a delay in identifying affected 
family members of an index case. At present, lag time between diagnosis of MEN1 
in index cases and genetic testing of family members was estimated to be 3.5 
years. A subsequent delay in diagnosing affected family members was demonstrated 
to cause potential harm. Non-index cases have been found to develop clinically 
relevant tumor manifestations during the lag times. Centralized care, monitoring 
of patients outcomes on a national level and thereby improving awareness of 
physicians treating MEN1 patients, will contribute to improved care. The second 
challenge relates to "phenocopies." Phenocopies refers to the 5-25% of 
clinically diagnosed patients with MEN1in whom no mutation can be found. Up to 
now, the clinical diagnosis of MEN1 is defined as the simultaneous presence of 
at least two of the three characteristic tumors (pituitary, parathyroids, or 
pancreatic islets). These clinically diagnosed patients undergo intensive follow 
up. Recent insights, however, challenge the validity of this clinical criterion. 
The most common mutation-negative MEN1 phenotype is the combination of primary 
hyperparathyroidism and a pituitary adenoma. This phenotype might also be caused 
by mutations in the CDKN1B gene, causing the recently described MEN4 syndrome. 
Moreover, primary hyperparathyroidism and pituitary adenoma are relatively 
common in the general population. Limiting follow-up in patients with a sporadic 
co-occurrence of pHPT and PIT could reduce exposure to radiation from imaging, 
healthcare costs and anxiety.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2018.00533
PMCID: PMC6141626
PMID: 30254610


272. Gynecol Minim Invasive Ther. 2018 Jan-Mar;7(1):36-39. doi: 
10.4103/GMIT.GMIT_5_17. Epub 2018 Feb 16.

Transposition of Cardinal Ligaments for Stages II-III Uterine Prolapse: A 
Minimally Invasive Procedure.

Ramadan MK(1), Badr DA(2), Saheb W(1), Wehbeh G(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Makassed General Hospital, Beirut, 
Lebanon.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Lebanese University, Beirut, 
Lebanon.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Rafic Hariri University Hospital, 
Beirut, Lebanon.

Uterine and other pelvic organ prolapse (POP) are becoming more frequently 
encountered due to increased life expectancy among menopausal women. 
Traditionally, most surgical procedures included hysterectomy as an integral 
part of the management. POP might, however, though less commonly, affect women 
not willing to accept hysterectomy, especially young females who did not 
complete their family. For these patients, uterine prolapse could be managed by 
a number of uterine-sparing surgical procedures that are performed through 
either abdominal or vaginal route according to patient's condition, surgeon's 
choice, and skills. Most of these operations, however, are usually lengthy, 
invasive, need good experience, and sometimes special accessories and 
instruments. We performed anterior transposition of the cardinal ligaments on 
two patients with POP quantification Stages II-III uterine prolapse without 
amputating the cervix. Both patients were interviewed at 6, 12, and 18-month 
intervals and reported no undue pain or dyspareunia with complete satisfaction 
regarding self-assessment of gynecologic anatomy. Furthermore, examination by 
the lead author revealed satisfactory anatomic correction. We recommend this 
simple, easy, and minimally invasive vaginal procedure to fellow gynecologists 
for repair of mild degrees of uterine prolapse in women declining hysterectomy 
or amputation of the cervix.

DOI: 10.4103/GMIT.GMIT_5_17
PMCID: PMC6135155
PMID: 30254934

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


273. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2018 Sep 26;19(9):2519-2525. doi: 
10.22034/APJCP.2018.19.9.2519.

Analysis of Delays in Breast Cancer Treatment and Late-Stage Diagnosis in 
Kazakhstan.

Chukmaitov AS(1), Kaidarova DR, Talaeyva ST, Sheppard VB, Xu H, Siangphoe U, 
Ettner SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Behavior and Policy, Virginia Commonwealth University 
School of Medicine, VCU Massey Cancer Center, USA. Email: 
askar.chukmaitov@vcuhealth.org

Objective: Although Kazakhstan has made significant investments to improve 
health and life expectancy of its population, high cancer rates persist, with 
breast cancer being the most prevalent type. Factors contributing to delays in 
treatment and late staging for breast cancer patients were assessed. Methods: A 
retrospective follow-up study with registry data identified 4,248 breast cancer 
patients in sixteen regions of Kazakhstan in 2014. We used logistic regressions 
to estimate (i) associations of treatment delays with patient demographics and 
cancer center regions; and (ii) associations of late-stage (III and IV) cancer 
diagnosis with patient demographics and cancer center regions, with and without 
controlling for treatment delays. Results: Breast cancer patients treated in 
regions located further away from Almaty City had higher risks of treatment 
delays. However, the risks of late-stage cancer diagnosis were greater for 
patients treated in Almaty City and those with treatment delays. Conclusion: The 
main driver of delayed treatment is cancer center region. Residents of Almaty 
City, a major urban area of Kazakhstan, may have a better access to a tertiary 
cancer center, resulting in less treatment delays. Referrals of sicker patients 
from neighboring regions to Almaty City for cancer treatment is likely to 
increase risks of late-stage diagnosis. New or upgraded cancer centers may 
reduce treatment delays, but their case-mix is likely to increase.

Creative Commons Attribution License

DOI: 10.22034/APJCP.2018.19.9.2519
PMCID: PMC6249466
PMID: 30256046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Epilepsia. 2018 Nov;59(11):2005-2018. doi: 10.1111/epi.14561. Epub 2018 Sep
6.

Epilepsy-predictive magnetic resonance imaging changes following experimental 
febrile status epilepticus: Are they translatable to the clinic?

Curran MM(1), Haddad E(2), Patterson KP(1), Choy M(1)(2), Dubé CM(2), Baram 
TZ(1)(2)(3), Obenaus A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy/Neurobiology, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, 
California.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, 
California.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, 
California.

OBJECTIVE: A subset of children with febrile status epilepticus (FSE) are at 
risk for development of temporal lobe epilepsy later in life. We sought a 
noninvasive predictive marker of those at risk that can be identified soon after 
FSE, within a clinically realistic timeframe.
METHODS: Longitudinal T2 -weighted magnetic resonance imaging (T2 WI MRI) of rat 
pups at several time points after experimental FSE (eFSE) was performed on a 
high-field scanner followed by long-term continuous electroencephalography. In 
parallel, T2 WI MRI scans were performed on a 3.0-T clinical scanner. Finally, 
chronic T2 WI MRI signal changes were examined in rats that experienced eFSE and 
were imaged months later in adulthood.
RESULTS: Epilepsy-predicting T2 changes, previously observed at 2 hours after 
eFSE, persisted for at least 6 hours, enabling translation to the clinic. 
Repeated scans, creating MRI trajectories of T2 relaxation times following eFSE, 
provided improved prediction of epileptogenesis compared with a single MRI scan. 
Predictive signal changes centered on limbic structures, such as the basolateral 
and medial amygdala. T2 WI MRI changes, originally described on high-field 
scanners, can also be measured on clinical MRI scanners. Chronically elevated T2 
relaxation times in hippocampus were observed months after eFSE in rats, as 
noted for post-FSE changes in children.
SIGNIFICANCE: Early T2 WI MRI changes after eFSE provide a strong predictive 
measure of epileptogenesis following eFSE, on both high-field and clinical MRI 
scanners. Importantly, the extension of the acute signal changes to at least 
6 hours after the FSE enables its inclusion in clinical studies. Chronic 
elevations of T2 relaxation times within the hippocampal formation and related 
structures are common to human and rodent FSE, suggesting that similar processes 
are involved across species.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2018 International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.14561
PMCID: PMC6217797
PMID: 30256385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None of the authors has 
any conflict of interest to disclose.


275. J Clin Psychiatry. 2018 Sep 11;79(5):17m12020. doi: 10.4088/JCP.17m12020.

Insomnia and Impaired Quality of Life in the United States.

Olfson M(1)(2), Wall M(2), Liu SM(2), Morin CM(3), Blanco C(4).

Author information:
(1)New York State Psychiatric Institute/Department of Psychiatry, College of 
Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University, 1051 Riverside Drive, New York, 
NY 10032. mo49@cumc.columbia.edu.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University and the New York State Psychiatric Institute, New York, New York, 
USA.
(3)School of Psychology, Laval University, Quebec City, Quebec, Canada.
(4)National Institute on Drug Abuse, Division of Epidemiology, Services, and 
Prevention Research, Rockville, Maryland, USA.

OBJECTIVE: This analysis characterizes the individual-level and population-level 
burden of insomnia in relation to other medical conditions and describes the 
comorbidity of insomnia with other medical conditions, including the dependence 
of these comorbidities on pain, life events, and mental disorders.
METHODS: Information from 34,712 adults in the National Epidemiologic Survey on 
Alcohol and Related Conditions-III (2012-2013) was analyzed. Quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) were measured with the SF-6D, a 6-dimensional health state 
classification derived from the Short-Form-12, version 2.
RESULTS: In the last 12 months, 27.3% of adults reported insomnia. The US annual 
loss of QALYs associated with insomnia (5.6 million; 95% CI, 5.33-5.86 million) 
was significantly larger than that associated with any of the other 18 medical 
conditions assessed, including arthritis (4.94 million; 95% CI, 4.62-5.26 
million), depression (4.02 million; 95% CI, 3.87-4.17 million), and hypertension 
(3.63 million; 95% CI, 3.32-3.93 million). After control for demographic 
factors, all conditions examined from obesity (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] = 1.25) 
to mania (aOR = 5.04) were associated with an increased risk of insomnia. 
Further controlling for pain, stressful life events, and mental disorders 
decreased the odds of the co-occurrence of insomnia with these conditions. The 
decrease in insomnia comorbidity associated with pain was greatest for 
fibromyalgia (31.8%) and arthritis (20.1%); the decrease in insomnia comorbidity 
associated with life events was greatest for mania (13.4%) and drug use 
disorders (11.2%); and the decrease in insomnia comorbidity associated with 
mental disorders was greatest for peptic ulcer disease (11.2%) and liver 
diseases (11.1%).
CONCLUSIONS: Insomnia is prevalent and associated with substantial 
population-level burden in self-assessed health. The co-occurrence of insomnia 
with common medical conditions is differentially related to pain and to a lesser 
extent to stressful life events and mental disorders.

© Copyright 2018 Physicians Postgraduate Press, Inc.

DOI: 10.4088/JCP.17m12020
PMID: 30256547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. J Palliat Med. 2019 Feb;22(2):173-178. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2018.0321. Epub 2018
Sep  26.

Tele-Assisted Palliative Homecare for Advanced Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary 
Disease: A Feasibility Study.

Vitacca M(1), Comini L(1), Tabaglio E(2), Platto B(2), Gazzi L(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Istituti Clinici Scientifici Maugeri, IRCCS, Respiratory Rehabilitation of 
the Institute of Lumezzane (BS), Italy.
(2)2 ATS (Agenzia di tutela della salute) Brescia, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Despite real needs, very few chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD) patients with life-limiting disease receive a well-organized support for 
palliative care (PC).
OBJECTIVE: To test the feasibility of, and patient satisfaction with, an 
advanced care plan for severe COPD patients followed by tele-assistance at home 
for six months that focused on monitoring patient's palliative topics through a 
dedicated checklist.
METHODS: Ten hospitalized patients with severe COPD (<1-year life expectancy) 
received a 60 minutes PC talk by a specialist to define an advanced care plan in 
the case of very severe respiratory insufficiency, based on three options: (1) 
endotracheal intubation (EI); (2) noninvasive ventilation; or (3) no mechanical 
aid; O2 and drugs, for example, opiates. After the talk, patients expressed 
their personal choice. Following discharge home, patients received structured 
monthly telephone monitoring from specialized tutor nurses for six months on 
palliative topics. Patient's anxiety before and after talk, depression, quality 
of life, specialist's quality of communication, and customer satisfaction were 
evaluated.
RESULTS: The palliative talk was feasible and anxiety low during the talk. Nine 
out 10 patients were followed up by nurse till the end of the program. Overall 
bad days of life, negative emotions, and perception of disease deterioration 
were the palliative topics more frequently declared by patient during the phone 
calls. Two patients changed their preference from EI to O2 therapy/sedation as a 
consequence of the intervention. Five out of 10 patients died. All patients 
expressed a high level of satisfaction of the service.
DISCUSSION: Tele-assisted PC is feasible and well accepted. According to these 
observations, a suitable supportive program can be the goal of a future study.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2018.0321
PMID: 30256709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. J Interprof Care. 2019 Mar-Apr;33(2):226-234. doi: 
10.1080/13561820.2018.1516201. Epub 2018 Sep 26.

Consumers at the centre: interprofessional solutions for meeting mental health 
consumers' physical health needs.

Happell B(1), Platania-Phung C(1), Bocking J(2), Ewart SB(3), Scholz B(4), 
Stanton R(5).

Author information:
(1)a School of Nursing and Midwifery , University of Newcastle , Newcastle , 
Australia.
(2)b Synergy, Nursing and Midwifery Research Centre , University of Canberra , 
WODEN , Australia.
(3)c Academic Life Expectancy Advocate (Mental Health).
(4)d Research Fellow ANU Medical School, College of Health and Medicine , The 
Australian National University , Woden Canberra , Australia.
(5)e School of Medical and Applied Sciences Bruce Highway , Central Queensland 
University , Rockhampton , Australia.

Interprofessional care and consumer-oriented services are embodied in modern 
healthcare policy and practice. The views, needs, and values of consumers are 
essential to ensuring translation of policy to practice. This is particularly 
pertinent for people diagnosed with mental illness who experience a higher risk 
of physical health problems and premature death. A qualitative, exploratory 
research project was conducted, involving focus groups with members of a mental 
health consumer group in the Australian Capital Territory. Participants were 
asked about their experiences and opinions in relation to physical health and 
care and treatment provided. Focus group transcripts were thematically analysed. 
Three themes arose via analysis: (1) Meeting diverse physical healthcare needs, 
where mental health consumers connect with many types of healthcare providers, 
conventional and non-conventional, (2) centre of the interprofessional team for 
holistic care, where there is preference for a consumer-centred group effort in 
addressing health issues as the model of care, and (3) more gateways, less 
gatekeeping, where points of access were affected by cost, place and gatekeepers 
could be enabling. People with mental illness seek enhanced collaboration 
between a broader range of health professionals, with potential to contribute to 
their overall health and well-being.

DOI: 10.1080/13561820.2018.1516201
PMID: 30257120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Pharmaceutics. 2018 Sep 25;10(4):167. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics10040167.

Porous Inorganic Carriers Based on Silica, Calcium Carbonate and Calcium 
Phosphate for Controlled/Modulated Drug Delivery: Fresh Outlook and Future 
Perspectives.

Trofimov AD(1), Ivanova AA(2), Zyuzin MV(3), Timin AS(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nanophotonics and Metamaterials, Saint Petersburg National 
Research University of Information Technologies, ITMO University, 197101 St. 
Petersburg, Russia. alexeydtrofimov@gmail.com.
(2)Research School of Chemical and Biomedical Engineering, National Research 
Tomsk Polytechnic University, Lenin Avenue 30, 634050 Tomsk, Russia. 
metallurg_annet@mail.ru.
(3)Department of Nanophotonics and Metamaterials, Saint Petersburg National 
Research University of Information Technologies, ITMO University, 197101 St. 
Petersburg, Russia. mikhail.zyuzin@metalab.ifmo.ru.
(4)Research School of Chemical and Biomedical Engineering, National Research 
Tomsk Polytechnic University, Lenin Avenue 30, 634050 Tomsk, Russia. 
a_timin@mail.ru.
(5)Department of Micro- and Nano-Encapsulation, First Pavlov State Medical 
University of St. Petersburg, Lev Tolstoy str. 6/8, 197022 Saint-Petersburg, 
Russia. a_timin@mail.ru.

Porous inorganic nanostructured materials are widely used nowadays as drug 
delivery carriers due to their adventurous features: suitable architecture, 
large surface area and stability in the biological fluids. Among the different 
types of inorganic porous materials, silica, calcium carbonate, and calcium 
phosphate have received significant attention in the last decade. The use of 
porous inorganic materials as drug carriers for cancer therapy, gene delivery 
etc. has the potential to improve the life expectancy of the patients affected 
by the disease. The main goal of this review is to provide general information 
on the current state of the art of synthesis of the inorganic porous particles 
based on silica, calcium carbonate and calcium phosphate. Special focus is 
dedicated to the loading capacity, controllable release of drugs under internal 
biological stimuli (e.g., pH, redox, enzymes) and external noninvasive stimuli 
(e.g., light, magnetic field, and ultrasound). Moreover, the diverse compounds 
to deliver with silica, calcium carbonate and calcium phosphate particles, 
ranging from the commercial drugs to genetic materials are also discussed.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics10040167
PMCID: PMC6321143
PMID: 30257514

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


279. BMC Cancer. 2018 Sep 26;18(1):924. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-4837-0.

Greater family size is associated with less cancer risk: an ecological analysis 
of 178 countries.

You W(1), Rühli FJ(2), Henneberg RJ(3), Henneberg M(4)(2).

Author information:
(1)Adelaide Medical School, The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, 5005, 
Australia. wenpeng.you@adelaide.edu.au.
(2)Institute of Evolutionary Medicine, University of Zurich, Zürich, 
Switzerland.
(3)Biological Anthropology and Comparative Anatomy Unit, Adelaide Medical 
School, The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, Australia.
(4)Adelaide Medical School, The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, 5005, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Greater family size measured with total fertility rate (TFR) and 
with household size, may offer more life satisfaction to the family members. 
Positive psychological well-being has been postulated to decrease cancer 
initiation risk. This ecological study aims to examine the worldwide correlation 
between family size, used as the measure of positive psychological well-being, 
and total cancer incidence rates.
METHODS: Country specific estimates obtained from United Nations agencies on 
total cancer incidence rates (total, female and male rates in age range 
0-49 years and all ages respectively), all ages site cancer incidence (bladder, 
breast, cervix uteri, colorectum, corpus uteri, lung, ovary and stomach), TFR, 
household size, life expectancy, urbanization, per capita GDP PPP and 
self-calculated Biological State Index (Ibs) were matched for data analysis. 
Pearson's, non-parametric Spearman's, partial correlations, independent T-test 
and multivariate regressions were conducted in SPSS.
RESULTS: Worldwide, TFR and household size were significantly and negatively 
correlated to all the cancer incidence variables. These correlations remained 
significant in partial correlation analysis when GDP, life expectancy, Ibs and 
urbanization were controlled for. TFR correlated to male cancer incidence rate 
(all ages) significantly stronger than it did to female cancer incidence rate 
(all ages) in both Pearson's and partial correlations. Multivariate stepwise 
regression analysis indicated that TFR and household size were consistently 
significant predictors of all cancer incidence variables.
CONCLUSIONS: Countries with greater family size have lower cancer risk in both 
females, and especially males. Our results seem to suggest that it may be 
worthwhile further examining correlations between family size and cancer risk in 
males and females through the cohort and case-control studies based on large 
samples.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-018-4837-0
PMCID: PMC6156945
PMID: 30257658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: All 
the data supporting our findings in this paper were freely downloaded from the 
UN agencies’ websites. No ethical approval or written informed consent for 
participation was required. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING 
INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing interests. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


280. Acta Chir Orthop Traumatol Cech. 2018;85(3):204-208.

[Effect of Unloading Knee Brace on Dynamic Parameters of the Stance Phase of 
Gait in Patients with Knee Osteoarthritis].

[Article in Czech]

Lehnertová M(1), Siudová L, Janura M, Svoboda Z, Gallo J, Kamínek P.

Author information:
(1)Fakulta tělesné kultury, Univerzita Palackého v Olomouci.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY Knee joint is the most common place where osteoarthritis 
may occur. A specific therapy is indicated to patients depending on the degree 
of disability and other signs. The available methods and their clinical value 
are regularly assessed in systematic reviews and meta-analysis of clinical 
studies. The evidence of working mechanism of the specific therapeutic 
intervention is another important part of evaluating its therapy effect. One of 
the possibilities of knee osteoarthritis conservative treatment is a functional 
prophylactic knee brace. This type of knee brace is designed to transfer the 
load away from the affected part of the knee joint in every step. The main goal 
of this study was to determine the effect of a prophylactic knee brace on 
dynamic parameters of the stance phase of gait in patients with knee 
osteoarthritis. MATERIAL AND METHODS The research involved twelve subjects with 
predominantly unilateral medial knee osteoarthritis of grade 2 and 3. Six 
patients did not complete the study. Therefore, the data of six persons were 
processed (average age 68.3 ± 4.4 years, average weight 83 ± 15.9 kg, average 
height 170.5 ± 11.7 cm). There were two piezoelectric Kistler 9286AA force 
plates used to determine the reaction forces. In total, six attempts were 
evaluated - three attempts with the knee brace and three attempts without it. 
Each subject completed three measurements. The first one took place at the 
beginning of the research, the second one after three months of using the brace, 
and the last one took place three months after the brace removal. The data 
processing methods were accustomed. At the beginning and at the end of the study 
the patients completed the WOMAC questionnaire and determined the level of their 
pain on the visual analogue scale (VAS). RESULTS The minimum value (p = 0.020) 
and the second maximum value (p = 0.035) of vertical reaction force 
significantly increased on the unaffected limb after a short-term application of 
a knee brace. There were significant increases found for walking without a brace 
in the maximum vertical force in the braking phase on the affected limb (p = 
0.006) after three months of bracing, followed by similar results in the maximum 
vertical force in the braking (p = 0.001) as well as the propulsion (p = 0.035) 
phase on the unaffected side. Furthermore, we observed a significant extension 
in the overall duration of the stance phase of gait (p = 0.001) on the affected 
limb. According to the WOMAC and VAS results, three patients experienced 
subjective conditional improvement, two subjective deterioration and one 
participant remained unchanged. DISCUSSION The individualized solutions, i.e. 
their "adaptation" to a particular type of knee arthrosis in each patient, is 
the biggest problem in the treatment of knee arthrosis using a prophylactic 
brace. Our results confirm the usefulness of modern knee orthosis in terms of 
motion biomechanics. However, it still remains to be proved that it is possible 
to use the brace for a long time during the active time of the day and that this 
use brings about a significant relief from troubles, improving the patient's 
quality of life. CONCLUSIONS The effect of the orthosis application was 
reflected in force and time parameters of the vertical and anteroposterior 
component of the reaction force. The use of a prophylactic knee brace can 
influence the dynamics of gait. The short-term effect of prophylactic brace use 
is reflected in an increased load on the unaffected limb. From a long-term point 
of view, a prolongation of the stance phase in both extremities was observed. 
However, the positive effect of the knee brace use tended to persist even after 
the brace removal. There were no significant changes in the subjective 
assessment of pain, stiffness and function of the knee joint. Key words: 
osteoarthritis, knee joint, knee brace, walking, dynamic analysis, adduction 
moment.

PMID: 30257780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Radiol Case Rep. 2018 Sep 20;13(6):1238-1241. doi:
10.1016/j.radcr.2018.08.029.  eCollection 2018 Dec.

Late breast cancer metastasis to the urinary bladder presenting with bilateral 
hydronephrosis.

Jordan LA(1), Green L(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Illinois College of Medicine, 1835 W Polk St, Chicago IL 60612 
USA.

INTRODUCTION: Since breast cancer is the most common non-skin cancer in women 
and the second most common cause of cancer death in women, it is important to 
understand potential sites of metastasis, including rare sites that have not 
frequently been reported in the literature. As our cancer interventions improve, 
patients will live longer and we will potentially see unusual patterns of 
metastatic disease more frequently, as in our case of a woman with breast cancer 
metastasis to her urinary bladder.
CASE PRESENTATION: We report a case of a 77-year-old female with history of 
breast cancer, metastatic to bone, and recently diagnosed bilateral 
hydronephrosis, secondary to a new urinary bladder mass. This mass presented 30 
years after her initial cancer diagnosis and biopsy confirmed that the origin 
was most likely metastatic pleomorphic lobular carcinoma of breast origin.
DISCUSSION: This case raises the possibility that unusual patterns of cancer 
metastasis may become more common, as life expectancy of cancer patients 
increases. This creates unique diagnostic and management challenges for 
radiologists and all members of the health care team.

DOI: 10.1016/j.radcr.2018.08.029
PMCID: PMC6149194
PMID: 30258514


282. Cureus. 2018 Jul 24;10(7):e3041. doi: 10.7759/cureus.3041.

Severe Rhabdomyolysis as an Unusual Presentation of Primary Human 
Immunodeficiency Virus Infection.

Noe MM(1), Jain AG(1), Shahid S(2), Majeed U(3).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine Residency, Florida Hospital, Orlando, USA.
(2)Internal Medicine, Karachi Medical and Dental College, Karachi , PAK.
(3)Internal Medicine Residency, Florida Hospital-Orlando, Casselberry, USA.

Rhabdomyolysis is characterized by muscle necrosis and leakage of toxic 
intracellular contents into the circulatory system. It is most commonly caused 
by trauma, physical exertion, drugs, toxins, and a variety of infections; only 
rarely is it associated with acute human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection 
alone. The severity of illness ranges from asymptomatic elevations in serum 
muscle enzymes to life-threatening electrolyte imbalances and acute kidney 
injury. High HIV viral load is associated with higher muscle breakdown that 
increases the incidence of severe acute kidney injury and sometimes the need for 
renal replacement therapy. The introduction of highly active antiretroviral 
therapy (HAART) revolutionized the treatment of HIV infection and increased the 
life expectancy of such patients by suppressing viral replication. Myopathy is 
one of the neuromuscular manifestations of HIV. It can occur either as a result 
of a complication of HIV itself or as a result of medicines used to control HIV. 
Muscle involvement of HIV infection ranges from asymptomatic muscle enzyme 
elevation to severe, HIV-associated polymyositis or pyomyositis. Here we report 
a case of acute retroviral syndrome presenting as severe non-traumatic 
rhabdomyolysis.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.3041
PMCID: PMC6153093
PMID: 30258740

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


283. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2019 Jul;31(7):1001-1009. doi:
10.1007/s40520-018-1044-4.  Epub 2018 Sep 27.

Predictors of long-term survival prior to permanent pacemaker implantation in 
octogenarians or older.

Cheng CW(1)(2), Wang CH(3)(4), Chen WS(3), Wang CC(4)(5), Cherng WJ(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Heart Failure Research Center, Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, 222 Mai Chin Road, Keelung, Taiwan, ROC. 
