vsm2@cdc.gov.
(2)National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (CDC), Atlanta, GA, USA.

Child maltreatment incurs a high lifetime cost per victim and creates a 
substantial US population economic burden. This study aimed to use the most 
recent data and recommended methods to update previous (2008) estimates of 1) 
the per-victim lifetime cost, and 2) the annual US population economic burden of 
child maltreatment. Three ways to update the previous estimates were identified: 
1) apply value per statistical life methodology to value child maltreatment 
mortality, 2) apply monetized quality-adjusted life years methodology to value 
child maltreatment morbidity, and 3) apply updated estimates of the exposed 
population. As with the previous estimates, the updated estimates used the 
societal cost perspective and lifetime horizon, but also accounted for victim 
and community intangible costs. Updated methods increased the estimated nonfatal 
child maltreatment per-victim lifetime cost from $210,012 (2010 USD) to $830,928 
(2015 USD) and increased the fatal per-victim cost from $1.3 to $16.6 million. 
The estimated US population economic burden of child maltreatment based on 2015 
substantiated incident cases (482,000 nonfatal and 1670 fatal victims) was $428 
billion, representing lifetime costs incurred annually. Using estimated 
incidence of investigated annual incident cases (2,368,000 nonfatal and 1670 
fatal victims), the estimated economic burden was $2 trillion. Accounting for 
victim and community intangible costs increased the estimated cost of child 
maltreatment considerably compared to previous estimates. The economic burden of 
child maltreatment is substantial and might off-set the cost of evidence-based 
interventions that reduce child maltreatment incidence.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2018.09.018
PMCID: PMC6289633
PMID: 30308348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Financial disclosures The authors have no 
financial relationships of interest. Conflicts of interest The authors have no 
conflicts of interest.


448. J Health Serv Res Policy. 2018 Oct;23(4):222-242. doi:
10.1177/1355819618787215.

Diagnostic Assessment Reviews: is cost-effectiveness analysis helpful or 
necessary?

Mistry H(1), Mason J(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Assistant Professor in Health Economics, Warwick Medical School, University 
of Warwick, UK.
(2)2 Professor in Health Economics, Warwick Medical School, University of 
Warwick, UK.

Objective Diagnostic Assessment Reviews are part of the work programme of the 
National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (NICE) in England to evaluate 
emergent medical technologies and so ensure timely and consistent adoption 
within the National Health Service (NHS). New diagnostics have the potential to 
improve health outcomes and impact positively on health service resource use. 
This study sought to assess the quality of economic evidence informing 
Diagnostic Assessment Reviews. Methods We reviewed 27 Diagnostic Assessment 
Reviews that had been published by NICE as of 30 May 2017 by summarizing and 
interpreting the evidence that was used to carry out cost-effectiveness 
analyses. Common issues and challenges of the assessment process were 
illustrated.
FINDINGS: DARs differed in the methods and assumptions used to construct 
economic models, and linkage of economic model and diagnostic findings. Even 
though some diagnostic technologies were estimated to be cost-effective, they 
were not always adopted for routine use in the NHS. The majority of Diagnostic 
Assessment Review economic models relied heavily on assumptions and expert 
opinion, with considerable uncertainty about the cost-effectiveness of 
diagnostic testing. Conclusions Diagnostic Assessment Reviews appraisals as 
commissioned by NICE typically feature varying evidence for diagnostic 
performance and limited evidence for resource implications and quality of life, 
often leading to recommendations for further research. Given the process 
opportunity cost, a two-stage topic selection process, with initial assessment 
specifying further research and proceeding to full assessment when adequate 
evidence is available may be more appropriate and help signal to diagnostics 
companies the type of research evidence required.

DOI: 10.1177/1355819618787215
PMID: 30309266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. J Phys Act Health. 2018 Nov 1;15(11):819-826. doi: 10.1123/jpah.2017-0285.
Epub  2018 Oct 11.

It Takes a Village Coach: Cost-Effectiveness of an Intervention to Improve Diet 
and Physical Activity Among Minority Women.

Buder I, Zick C, Waitzman N, Simonsen S, Sunada G, Digre K.

BACKGROUND: This study gauged the cost-effectiveness of a community-based health 
coaching intervention aimed at improving diet and physical activity among women 
in culturally diverse communities.
METHODS: The Coalition for a Healthier Community for Utah Women and Girls 
recruited women from 5 cultural and ethnic groups and randomized them to receive 
quarterly versus monthly health coaching. Coaching was performed by trained 
community health workers from the targeted communities. Cost-effectiveness 
ratios were estimated to gauge the cost-effectiveness of the intervention.
RESULTS: Estimated quality-adjusted life years gained from both increased 
physical activity and improved diet were positive. Cost-effectiveness ratios 
varied by intervention arm, but all ratios fell within the favorable range 
described in the literature.
CONCLUSIONS: This culturally adapted health coaching intervention was deemed to 
be cost-effective. Our findings suggest that to achieve the highest level of 
cost-effectiveness, programs should focus on enrolling at-risk women who do not 
meet recommended physical activity standards and/or dietary guidelines.

DOI: 10.1123/jpah.2017-0285
PMID: 30309276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Sci Rep. 2018 Oct 11;8(1):15153. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-33394-y.

Engineering a branching sucrase for flavonoid glucoside diversification.

Malbert Y(1), Moulis C(1), Brison Y(1), Morel S(1), André I(1), Remaud-Simeon 
M(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'Ingénierie des Systèmes Biologiques et Procédés, LISBP, 
Université de Toulouse, CNRS, INRA, INSA, Toulouse, France. 135, avenue de 
Rangueil, F-31077, Toulouse, cedex 04, France.
(2)Laboratoire d'Ingénierie des Systèmes Biologiques et Procédés, LISBP, 
Université de Toulouse, CNRS, INRA, INSA, Toulouse, France. 135, avenue de 
Rangueil, F-31077, Toulouse, cedex 04, France. remaud@insa-toulouse.fr.

Enzymatic glycosylation of flavonoids is an efficient mean to protect aglycons 
against degradation while enhancing their solubility, life time and, by 
extension, their bioavailability which is critical for most of their 
applications in health care. To generate a valuable enzymatic platform for 
flavonoid glucosylation, an α-1,2 branching sucrase belonging to the family 70 
of glycoside-hydrolases was selected as template and subsequently engineered. 
Two libraries of variants targeting pair-wise mutations inferred by molecular 
docking simulations were generated and screened for quercetin glucosylation 
using sucrose as a glucosyl donor. Only a limited number of variants (22) were 
retained on the basis of quercetin conversion and product profile. Their 
acceptor promiscuity towards five other flavonoids was subsequently assessed, 
and the automated screening effort revealed variants showing remarkable ability 
for luteolin, morin and naringenin glucosylation with conversion ranging from 
30% to 90%. Notably, naringenin and morin, a priori considered as recalcitrant 
compounds to glucosylation using this α-transglucosylases, could also be 
modified. The approach reveals the potential of small platforms of engineered 
GH70 α-transglucosylases and opens up the diversity of flavonoid glucosides to 
molecular structures inaccessible yet.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-33394-y
PMCID: PMC6181985
PMID: 30310109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


451. Eur Cardiol. 2016 Dec;11(2):102-110. doi: 10.15420/ecr/2016:19:2.

Cardiovascular Management of Adults with Marfan Syndrome.

Isekame Y(1), Gati S(1), Aragon-Martin JA(1), Bastiaenen R(1), Kondapally 
Seshasai SR(1), Child A(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular and Cell Sciences Research Institute, St. George's, University 
of London, London, UK.

Marfan syndrome (MFS) is a disease in which connective tissue becomes weak 
secondary to fibrillin-1 mutations, resulting in aortic dilatation, aneurysm 
formation, aortic dissection, aortic regurgitation and mitral valve prolapse. 
This autosomal dominantly inherited condition, which was first reported in 1895 
and was more fully described in 1931, is characterised by abnormal Fibrillin-1 
protein (FBN1) (discovered in 1990), which is encoded by the FBN1 gene (reported 
in 1991). In the 1970s, the life expectancy of people with MFS was 40-50 years, 
mainly due to increased risk of aortic dissection or heart failure from aortic 
or mitral regurgitation. However, due to advances in medical and surgical 
therapy, life expectancy has improved dramatically and is now comparable to that 
of the general population. We discuss the cardiac manifestations of MFS, the 
incidence of arrhythmia in this population, the standard of medical care for 
arrhythmia and valve insufficiency, and a new use of preventive medication to 
preserve the integrity of the aortic wall in patients with MFS.

DOI: 10.15420/ecr/2016:19:2
PMCID: PMC6159454
PMID: 30310455

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: The authors have no conflicts of 
interest to declare.


452. Chem Sci. 2018 Jul 23;9(32):6605-6613. doi: 10.1039/c8sc02752h. eCollection
2018  Aug 28.

An ultrasensitive flow cytometric immunoassay based on bead surface-initiated 
template-free DNA extension.

Zhu L(1), Chen D(1), Lu X(1), Qi Y(1), He P(1), Liu C(1), Li Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Analytical Chemistry for Life Science of Shaanxi Province , 
Key Laboratory of Applied Surface and Colloid Chemistry , Ministry of Education 
, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering , Shaanxi Normal University , 
Xi'an 710119 , Shaanxi Province , P. R. China . Email: liuch@snnu.edu.cn.

Proteins lack the duplication mechanism like nucleic acids, so the connection of 
immunoassays with effective nucleic acid amplification techniques has become a 
powerful way for the detection of trace protein biomarkers in biological fluids. 
However, such immunoassays generally suffer from rather stringent DNA sequence 
design and complicated operations. Herein, we propose a simple but highly 
sensitive flow cytometric immunoassay (FCI) by employing on-bead terminal 
deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-initiated template-free DNA extension as an 
effective signal amplification pathway (TdT-FCI), and gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) 
co-functionalized with both the detection antibody and a 3'-OH oligonucleotide 
(ODN) as the transducer to bridge the immunoassay and subsequent TdT-mediated 
DNA amplification. The target antigen can sandwich with the capture antibody 
immobilized on the magnetic beads (MBs) and the detection antibody on the AuNPs 
to bring a lot of ODNs onto the surface of MBs. Each ODN on the MBs can be 
effectively elongated by TdT in a template-free manner to produce a long poly(T) 
tail, which will then bind to many 6-carboxyfluorescein (FAM)-labeled poly(A)25. 
Since each AuNP can carry multiple ODNs and each extended ODN can ultimately 
capture numerous FAM-poly(A)25, efficiently amplified fluorophore accumulation 
on the MBs can be achieved. The fluorescent MBs can be individually interrogated 
with a flow cytometer and thus quantitative analysis of the target antigen can 
be realized. Coupled with the powerful flow cytometry analysis, the simple but 
efficient TdT-based signal amplification mechanism has pushed the detection 
limit of prostate specific antigen (PSA) down to a low level of 0.5 pg mL-1. 
Furthermore, based on an elegant bead size-encoding principle, we have further 
advanced the TdT-FCI for multiplexed antigen detection in a single reaction. 
Sharing the unique merits of simple design and operation, efficient signal 
amplification, powerful signal readout and the capability for multiplexed 
analysis, this TdT-FCI provides a versatile tool for detecting trace antigen 
biomarkers towards clinical diagnosis as well as prognosis.

DOI: 10.1039/c8sc02752h
PMCID: PMC6115634
PMID: 30310592


453. Cureus. 2018 Jul 5;10(7):e2931. doi: 10.7759/cureus.2931.

Choosing Wisely Campaign - Innovations in Cardiovascular Science and The United 
States Healthcare System.

Rehman H(1), Ali F(2), Mangi MA(3).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine, Hamdard University Hospital, Karachi, PAK.
(2)Cardiology, Lehigh Valley Hospital Network, Allentown, USA.
(3)Internal Medicine, Orange Park Medical Center, Orange Park, USA.

The United States (US) is the third most expensive health care system in the 
world, but despite that, the US ranked last in the top 50 countries of the world 
when it comes to the performance measures, such as healthcare efficiency, life 
expectancy, health care costs, and gross domestic product (GDP) percentage. The 
spending health care cost keeps increasing and most of the healthcare costs 
go to waste. Due to this reason, it is therefore extremely important to focus on 
improving the quality and to bring the costs in appropriate control. To avoid 
this issue, the Choosing Wisely Campaign (CWC) came into being in 2012. The CWC 
encourages discussions between providers and patients regarding the care based 
on the evidence base, free from harm, duplicative or redundant tests/procedures 
that the patient already received, and whether medications, tests, or procedures 
are really necessary. Although diagnostic tests or procedures are highly valued 
for decision-making, unnecessary testing creates harmful health services and an 
economic impact on the healthcare system. The CWC has spread widely throughout 
the world but has many challenges which are limiting the CWC in further adoption 
and spread in the US. To overcome challenges in implementing and spreading the 
CWC, the government, physicians, social media, and mass media play an important 
role.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.2931
PMCID: PMC6170190
PMID: 30310762

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


454. Hastings Cent Rep. 2018 Sep;48 Suppl 3:S10-S14. doi: 10.1002/hast.906.

What Can Thinking Like a Gerontologist Bring to Bioethics?

de Medeiros K.

I am a social gerontologist, broadly defined as a social scientist who studies 
how later life is experienced, structured, and controlled in a society and in 
social settings. Although gerontology is often confused with geriatrics (a 
medical specialty), gerontologists are typically not clinicians but may study 
issues related to old age and health care such as the societal conditions that 
shape how medical care is provided and financed and how early exposure to 
education relates to later life health. In this essay, I argue that thinking 
like a gerontologist is important when considering what makes a good life in 
late life. To think like a gerontologist is to consider the cultural and 
societal values-past and present-that shape the experience of aging, to 
recognize people as complex beings whose individual lives do not follow 
predictable patterns or easily identified trajectories, and to recognize our own 
habits of regarding older persons as "other" and the consequences of "othering" 
for older persons and social systems. After a brief history of gerontology, 
highlighting a few core concepts that gerontologists share, I propose three 
important questions to consider regarding a good life in late life.

© 2018 The Hastings Center.

DOI: 10.1002/hast.906
PMID: 30311223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Geriatr Gerontol Int. 2018 Oct;18(10):1522-1523. doi: 10.1111/ggi.13501.

Estimation of life expectancy with gait speed for cancer screening decisions in 
older adults.

Nishijima TF(1), Ajmal S(1), Chodosh J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Geriatrics and Palliative Care, New York 
University Medical School, New York, New York, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/ggi.13501
PMID: 30311447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Klin Med (Mosk). 2017;95(2):158-62.

[CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASES: EVALUATION OF PERSISTING DISORDERS IN THE BLOOD 
CIRCULATION SYSTEM AND DISABILITY, CRITERIA FOR SEVERITY OF INVALIDISM].

[Article in Russian]

Shurgaya MA.

A most important indicator of population health, its social and economic 
wellbeing is premature disability. 10.3 mln people had to retire from their jobs 
due to disability during the ten-year period from 2005 to 2014. The number of 
elderly subjects among them was twice that of the younger ones, with the leading 
cause of disability being blood circulation disorders (61,9%). At the same time, 
the fraction of old subjects in the group of invalids suffering from coronary 
heart disease and idiopathic hypertension accounted for only 58,9% and 40,9% 
respectively. The quantitative evaluation of persistent dysfunction of the 
cardiovascular system related to circulatory disturbances included in ICD class 
IX and to those referred to other classes is based mainly on an assessment of 
the following clinical and functional manifestations: pain syndrome (cardialgia 
or angina); hypertensive syndrome; pulmonary hypertension; arrhythmia; syncope. 
Other aspects of pathological process are taken into consideration, such as its 
form and severity, presence and frequency of exacerbations, magnitude, 
involvement of target organs, complications. The gerontological slant of 
disabling cardiovascular pathology accounts for its social significance 
(idiopathic hypertension, coronary heart disease, chronic heart failure) which 
requires the adequate solution of the problem of healthcare provisions taking 
account of the current demographic situation and increased life expectancy 
within the older population suffering from a number of chronic diseases.

PMID: 30311757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Muscle Nerve. 2019 Feb;59(2):218-223. doi: 10.1002/mus.26356. Epub 2018 Nov
13.

Muscle weakness and functional disability in patients with myasthenia gravis.

Vinge L(1), Jakobsen J(1), Andersen H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Aarhus University Hospital, Noerrebrogade 44, 8000, 
Aarhus, Denmark.

INTRODUCTION: Muscle weakness and functional disability have not been evaluated 
in a population-based study of patients with myasthenia gravis (MG).
METHODS: All patients with MG in a well-defined catchment area were identified 
in the Danish National Patient Registry. Of the 175 eligible patients, 90 
participated and were studied using MG-specific scales, isometric dynamometry, 
and functional tests. Fifty age- and sex-matched subjects served as controls.
RESULTS: Muscle strength was reduced by 13%, 21%, and 12% for shoulder 
abduction, knee extension, and ankle extension, respectively (P < 0.05). Chair 
stand and 400-meter walking were impaired by 24% and 23%, respectively 
(P < 0.05). Muscle strength and functional performances were related to 
MG-specific scales.
DISCUSSION: MG patients have moderately reduced isometric muscle strength and 
impaired physical performance. Muscle weakness and functional tests relate 
closely to MG-specific scales, suggesting that dynamometry and functional tests 
can be used to monitor MG patients and as efficacy parameters in clinical 
trials. Muscle Nerve 59:218-223, 2019.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mus.26356
PMID: 30311960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Vital Health Stat 2. 2018 Sep;(181):1-40.

U.S. Small-area Life Expectancy Estimates Project: Methodology and Results 
Summary.

Arias E, Escobedo LA, Kennedy J, Fu C, Cisewki J.

Statistically reliable, abridged, period life tables were produced for 88.7% of 
U.S. census tracts (65,662). A battery of tests revealed that the census-tract 
life table functions followed expected patterns; their distribution about state 
and U.S. values showed no aberrations; and their weighted mean values compared 
well with state- and national-level estimates. The weighted mean life expectancy 
at birth for the 65,662 census tracts was 78.7 years compared with the official 
U.S. estimate of 78.8 years in midyear 2013. The results of this study concur 
with previous research showing that a minimum population size of 5,000 is 
acceptable, with the caveat that missing age-specific death counts cannot be 
ignored. The methodology developed for this study addressed the issues of small 
populations and zero deaths as robustly as possible, although it is not without 
error.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 30312153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Crit Care Med. 2019 Feb;47(2):186-193. doi: 10.1097/CCM.0000000000003465.

Economic Evaluation of Venovenous Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation for Severe 
Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome.

Barrett KA(1)(2)(3), Hawkins N(4), Fan E(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Critical Care Medicine, Department of Pediatrics, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Interdepartmental Division of Critical Care Medicine, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom.
(4)Institute of Health and Wellbeing, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, Scotland, 
United Kingdom.

Comment in
    Crit Care Med. 2019 Feb;47(2):292-293.

OBJECTIVES: Venovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation is increasingly being 
used to support patients with severe acute respiratory distress syndrome, but 
its cost-effectiveness is unknown. We assessed the cost-utility of venovenous 
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for severe acute respiratory distress 
syndrome in adults compared with standard lung protective ventilation from the 
perspective of the healthcare system.
DESIGN: We conducted a cost-utility analysis with a cohort state transition 
decision model using a lifetime time horizon, 1.5% discount rate, and outcomes 
reported as cost per quality-adjusted life year. Literature reviews were 
conducted to inform the model variables. Deterministic and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses were conducted to assess uncertainty in the model.
SETTING: Canadian publicly funded healthcare system.
PATIENTS: Hypothetical cohort of adults with severe acute respiratory distress 
syndrome.
INTERVENTIONS: Venovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation or standard lung 
protective ventilation.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In our model, the use of venovenous 
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation compared with lung protective ventilation 
resulted in a gain of 5.2 life years and 4.05 quality-adjusted life years, at an 
additional lifetime cost of $145,697 Canadian dollars. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was $36,001/quality-adjusted life year. Sensitivity 
analyses show that the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio is sensitive to the 
efficacy of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation therapy and costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on current data, venovenous extracorporeal membrane 
oxygenation is cost-effective for patients with severe acute respiratory 
distress syndrome. Additional evidence on the efficacy of venovenous 
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for acute respiratory distress syndrome and 
in different subgroups of patients will allow for greater certainty in its 
cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1097/CCM.0000000000003465
PMID: 30312186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2019 Apr 15;44(8):563-570. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0000000000002901.

A Cost-utility Analysis of Percutaneous Endoscopic Lumbar Discectomy for L5-S1 
Lumbar Disc Herniation: Transforaminal versus Interlaminar.

Wang D(1), Xie W(1), Cao W(1), He S(1)(2), Fan G(1)(2), Zhang H(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Orthopedic Department, Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital, Tongji University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(2)Spinal Pain Research Institute, Tongji University School of Medicine, 
Shanghai, China.
(3)Orthopedic Department, Putuo People's Hospital, Tongji University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, China.

STUDY DESIGN: A cost-utility analysis (CUA).
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
percutaneous endoscopic transforaminal discectomy (PETD) and percutaneous 
endoscopic interlaminar discectomy (PEID) techniques for the treatment of L5-S1 
lumbar disc herniation (LDH).
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: The annual cost of treatment for lumbar disc 
herniation is staggering. As the two major approaches of percutaneous endoscopic 
lumbar discectomy (PELD): percutaneous endoscopic transforaminal discectomy 
(PETD) and percutaneous endoscopic interlaminar discectomy (PEID) have gained 
recognition for the treatment of L5-S1 lumbar disc herniation (LDH) and showed 
similar clinical outcome. ost-utility analysis (CUA) can help clinicians make 
appropriate decisions about optimal health care for L5-S1 LDH.
METHODS: Fifty and 25 patients were included in the PETD and PEID groups of the 
study. Patients' basic characteristics, health care costs, and clinical outcome 
of PETD and PEID group were collected and analyzed. Quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) were calculated and validated by EuroQol five-dimensional (EQ-5D) 
questionnaire. Cost-effectiveness was determined by the incremental cost per 
QALY gained.
RESULTS: The mean total cost of the PETD group was $5275.58 ± 292.98 and the 
PEID group was $5494.45 ± 749.24. No significant differences were observed in 
hospitalization expenses, laboratory and radiographic evaluations expenses, 
surgical expenses, and drug costs. Surgical equipment and materials costs, and 
anesthesia expense in the PEID group were significantly higher than in the PETD 
group (P < 0.001). Clinical outcomes, including Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), 
Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) scores, and Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA), 
also showed no significant differences between the two groups. The 
cost-effectiveness ratio of PETD and PEID were $6816.05 ± 717.90/QALY and 
$7073.30 ± 1081.44/QALY, respectively. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) of PEID over PETD was $21887.00/QALY.
CONCLUSION: Observed costs per QALY gained for L5-S1 LDH with PETD or PEID were 
similar for patients, demonstrating that the two different approaches of PELD 
are equally cost-effective and valuable interventions.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 5.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0000000000002901
PMID: 30312274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. PLoS Pathog. 2018 Oct 12;14(10):e1007367. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1007367.
 eCollection 2018 Oct.

SETD2-dependent H3K36me3 plays a critical role in epigenetic regulation of the 
HPV31 life cycle.

Gautam D(1), Johnson BA(2), Mac M(2), Moody CA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States of America.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States of America.

The life cycle of HPV is tied to the differentiation status of its host cell, 
with productive replication, late gene expression and virion production 
restricted to the uppermost layers of the stratified epithelium. HPV DNA is 
histone-associated, exhibiting a chromatin structure similar to that of the host 
chromosome. Although HPV chromatin is subject to histone post-translational 
modifications, how the viral life cycle is epigenetically regulated is not well 
understood. SETD2 is a histone methyltransferase that places the trimethyl mark 
on H3K36 (H3K36me3), a mark of active transcription. Here, we define a role for 
SETD2 and H3K36me3 in the viral life cycle. We have found that HPV positive 
cells exhibit increased levels of SETD2, with SETD2 depletion leading to defects 
in productive viral replication and splicing of late viral RNAs. Reducing 
H3K36me3 by overexpression of KDM4A, an H3K36me3 demethylase, or an H3.3K36M 
transgene also blocks productive viral replication, indicating a significant 
role for this histone modification in facilitating viral processes. H3K36me3 is 
enriched on the 3' end of the early region of the high-risk HPV31 genome in a 
SETD2-dependent manner, suggesting that SETD2 may regulate the viral life cycle 
through the recruitment of H3K36me3 readers to viral DNA. Intriguingly, we have 
found that activation of the ATM DNA damage kinase, which is required for 
productive viral replication, is necessary for the maintenance of H3K36me3 on 
viral chromatin and for processing of late viral RNAs. Additionally, we have 
found that the HPV31 E7 protein maintains the increased SETD2 levels in infected 
cells through an extension of protein half-life. Collectively, our findings 
highlight the importance of epigenetic modifications in driving the viral life 
cycle and identify a novel role for E7 as well as the DNA damage response in the 
regulation of viral processes through epigenetic modifications.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1007367
PMCID: PMC6200281
PMID: 30312361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


462. Int J Pharm. 2018 Dec 20;553(1-2):65-83. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.10.025.
 Epub 2018 Oct 9.

Development and functional characterization of composite freeze dried wafers for 
potential delivery of low dose aspirin for elderly people with dysphagia.

Farias S(1), Boateng JS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical, Chemical and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of 
Engineering and Science, University of Greenwich at Medway, Chatham Maritime, 
Kent ME4 4TB, UK.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical, Chemical and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of 
Engineering and Science, University of Greenwich at Medway, Chatham Maritime, 
Kent ME4 4TB, UK. Electronic address: j.s.boateng@gre.ac.uk.

The impact of demographic ageing is likely to be of major significance in the 
coming decades due to low birth rates and higher life expectancy. Older people 
generally require more prescribed medicines due to the presence of multiple 
conditions such as dysphagia which can make swallowing medicines challenging. 
This study involves the development, characterization and optimization of 
composite wafers for potential oral and buccal delivery of low dose aspirin to 
prevent thrombosis in elderly patients with dysphagia. Blank (BLK) wafers (no 
loaded drug) were initially formulated by dissolving combinations of metolose 
(MET) with carrageenan (CAR) and MET with low molecular weight chitosan (CS) in 
different weight ratios in water, to identify optimum polymer combinations. 
However, drug loaded (DL) wafers were prepared using 45% v/v ethanol to help 
complete solubilization of the aspirin. The formulations were characterized 
using texture analyzer (hardness, mucoadhesion), scanning electron microscopy 
(SEM), X-ray diffractometry (XRD), attenuated total reflectance - Fourier 
transform infrared (ATR-FTIR), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), 
thermogravimetric analyzer (TGA), and swelling capacity. Wafers with higher 
total polymer concentration were more resistant to penetration (MET:CAR 1:1 
samples B2, C2) and MET:CS 1:1 (sample E2) and MET:CS 3:1 (sample F2) and also 
depended on the ratios between the polymers used. From the characterization, 
samples C2, B2, E2 and F2 showed the most ideal characteristics. XRD showed that 
BLK wafers were amorphous, whilst the DL wafers were crystalline due to the 
presence of aspirin. SEM confirmed the presence of pores within the polymer 
matrix of the BLK wafers, whilst DL wafers showed a more compact polymeric 
matrix with aspirin dispersed over the surface. The DL wafers showed a good 
flexibility required for transportation and patient handling and showed higher 
swelling capacity and adhesion values with phosphate buffer saline (PBS) than 
with simulated saliva (SS). Drug dissolution studies showed that aspirin was 
rapidly released in the first 20 min and then continuously over 1 h. FTIR 
confirmed the interaction of aspirin with the polymers evidenced by peak shifts 
around 1750 cm-1 and the broad peak between 2500 and 3300 cm-1. Lyophilized CAR: 
CS 1:3 (sample DL13), MET:CS 1:3 (sample DL8) and MET:CAR 3:1 (sample DL1) 
wafers seem to be a very promising system for the administration of low dose 
aspirin for older patients with dysphagia.

Crown Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.10.025
PMID: 30312748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Acta Biomater. 2018 Dec;82:111-121. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.10.008. Epub
2018  Oct 10.

Early angiogenesis detected by PET imaging with (64)Cu-NODAGA-RGD is predictive 
of bone critical defect repair.

Collignon AM(1), Lesieur J(2), Anizan N(3), Azzouna RB(4), Poliard A(2), Gorin 
C(1), Letourneur D(5), Chaussain C(1), Rouzet F(6), Rochefort GY(7).

Author information:
(1)EA 2496 Orofacial Pathologies, Imagery and Biotherapies, Dental School 
Faculty, University Paris Descartes and Life Imaging Platform (PIV), Montrouge, 
France; University Hospitals, AP-HP, Paris, France.
(2)EA 2496 Orofacial Pathologies, Imagery and Biotherapies, Dental School 
Faculty, University Paris Descartes and Life Imaging Platform (PIV), Montrouge, 
France.
(3)Fédération de Recherche en Imagerie Multimodale (FRIM), Inserm UMS-34, 
Université Paris Diderot, Paris, France.
(4)University Hospitals, AP-HP, Paris, France; Fédération de Recherche en 
Imagerie Multimodale (FRIM), Inserm UMS-34, Université Paris Diderot, Paris, 
France; INSERM U1148, Laboratory of Vascular Translational Science, University 
Paris Diderot, University Paris 13, X Bichat Hospital, and Département 
Hospitalo-Universitaire (DHU) FIRE, F-75018 Paris, France.
(5)INSERM U1148, Laboratory of Vascular Translational Science, University Paris 
Diderot, University Paris 13, X Bichat Hospital, and Département 
Hospitalo-Universitaire (DHU) FIRE, F-75018 Paris, France.
(6)University Hospitals, AP-HP, Paris, France; Fédération de Recherche en 
Imagerie Multimodale (FRIM), Inserm UMS-34, Université Paris Diderot, Paris, 
France; INSERM U1148, Laboratory of Vascular Translational Science, University 
Paris Diderot, University Paris 13, X Bichat Hospital, and Département 
Hospitalo-Universitaire (DHU) FIRE, F-75018 Paris, France. Electronic address: 
francois.rouzet@aphp.fr.
(7)EA 2496 Orofacial Pathologies, Imagery and Biotherapies, Dental School 
Faculty, University Paris Descartes and Life Imaging Platform (PIV), Montrouge, 
France. Electronic address: gael.rochefort@gmail.com.

Therapies using stem cells may be applicable to all fields of regenerative 
medicine, including craniomaxillofacial surgery. Dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) 
have demonstrated in vitro and in vivo osteogenic and proangiogenic properties. 
The aim of the study was to evaluate whether early angiogenesis investigated by 
nuclear imaging can predict bone formation within a mouse critical bone defect. 
Two symmetrical calvarial critical-sized defects were created. Defects were left 
empty or filled with i) DPSC-containing dense collagen scaffold, ii) 5% 
hypoxia-primed DPSC-containing dense collagen scaffold, iii) acellular dense 
collagen scaffold, or iv) left empty. Early angiogenesis assessed by PET using 
64Cu-NODAGA-RGD as a tracer was found to be correlated with bone formation 
determined by micro-CT within the defects from day 30, and to be correlated to 
the late calcium apposition observed at day 90 using 18F-Na PET. These results 
suggest that nuclear imaging of angiogenesis, a technique applicable in clinical 
practice, is a promising approach for early prediction of bone grafting outcome, 
thus potentially allowing to anticipate alternative regenerative strategies. 
STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Bone defects are a major concern in medicine. As life 
expectancy increases, the number of bone lesions grows, and occurring 
complications lead to a delay or even lack of consolidation. Therefore, to be 
able to predict healing or the absence of scarring at early times would be very 
interesting. This would not "waste time" for the patient. We report here that 
early nuclear imaging of angiogenesis, using 64Cu-NODAGA-RGD as a tracer, 
associated with nuclear imaging of mineralization, using 18F-Na as a tracer, is 
correlated to late bone healing objectivized by classical histology and 
microtomography. This nuclear imaging represents a promising approach for early 
prediction of bone grafting outcome in clinical practice, thus potentially 
allowing to anticipate alternative regenerative strategies.

Copyright © 2018 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.10.008
PMID: 30312778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 Oct;97(41):e12759. doi:
10.1097/MD.0000000000012759.

Impact of the pay-for-performance program on lower extremity amputations in 
patients with diabetes in Taiwan.

Sheen YJ(1)(2)(3), Kung PT(4), Kuo WY(1), Chiu LT(1), Tsai WC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Administration.
(2)Department of Public Health, China Medical University.
(3)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Taichung Veterans General Hospital.
(4)Department of Healthcare Administration, Asia University, Taichung, Taiwan.

Patients with diabetes are at a high risk of lower extremity amputations and may 
have a reduced life expectancy. Taiwan has implemented a diabetes 
pay-for-performance (P4P) program providing team care to improve the control of 
disease and avoid subsequent complications. Few studies investigated the effects 
of adopting a nationalized policy to decrease amputation risk in diabetes 
previously. Our study aimed to analyze the impact of the P4P programs on the 
incidence of lower extremity amputations in Taiwanese patients with 
diabetes.This was a population-based cohort study using the Taiwan National 
Health Insurance Research Database (which provided coverage for 98% of the total 
population in Taiwan) from 1998 to 2007. Patients with diabetes were identified 
based on the International Classification of Diseases, 9th Revision, Clinical 
Modification (ICD-9-CM) diagnostic codes. We linked procedure codes to inpatient 
claims to identify patients hospitalized for nontraumatic lower extremity 
amputations.A total of 9738 patients with diabetes with amputations were 
enrolled (mean age ± standard deviation: 64.4 ± 14.5 years; men: 63.9%). The 
incidence of nontraumatic diabetic lower extremity amputations decreased over 
the time period studied (3.79-2.27 per 1000 persons with diabetes). Based on the 
Cox proportional hazard regression model, male sex (hazard ratio: 1.83, 95% 
confidence interval [CI] 1.76-1.92), older age, and low socioeconomic status 
significantly interact with diabetes with respect to the risks of amputation. 
Patients who did not join the P4P program for diabetes care had a 3.46-fold 
higher risk of amputation compared with those who joined (95% CI 3.19-3.76).The 
amputation rate in Taiwanese diabetic patients decreased over the time period 
observed. Diabetes in patients with low socioeconomic status is associated with 
an increased risk of amputations. Our findings suggested that in addition to 
medical interventions and self-management educations, formulate and implement of 
medical policies, such as P4P program, might have a significant effect on 
decreasing the diabetes-related amputation rate.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000012759
PMCID: PMC6203477
PMID: 30313085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


465. Zootaxa. 2018 Jul 23;4450(1):41-65. doi: 10.11646/zootaxa.4450.1.3.

Skusella Freeman (Diptera: Chironomidae): new species, immature stages from 
Africa, Asia and Australia, and expanded distributions.

Cranston PS(1), Tang H.

Author information:
(1)Evolution & Ecology, Research School of Biology, Australian National 
University, Canberra, A.C.T. 2601, Australia.. pscranston@gmail.com.

Skusella Freeman, 1961 (Diptera: Chironomidae, Chironominae), known previously 
from adults from Australia and Africa, is revised with extended descriptions, 
including for immature life stages. Skusella is diagnosed based on its type 
species S. subvittata (Skuse, 1889) from Australia, S. pallidipes (Kieffer, 
1921) from the Afrotropical region (the only other originally included species), 
a second African species S. freemani Harrison, 2002, and S. silingae Tang, sp. 
n., newly described here from the pupa and adult males from China. The immature 
stages of Skusella have been known informally for several decades, notably for a 
characteristic fringe of setae on one or more abdominal pleurae of the pupa, 
shared only with newly described Paraskusella Cranston, 2018 within the 
Chironominae. Amongst larvae of Chironomini with 6-segmented antenna, alternate 
Lauterborn organs and a well-demarcated ventromentum, those of Skusella are 
distinguishable only with caution due to insufficient reared associations. 
Unassociated pupal exuviae, tentatively belonging to three unknown new species, 
are described informally from China, as is a larval type from Africa. Range 
extensions include for S. freemani, with pupae (newly described here) from 
Nigeria and Cameroon, at least 5000 km from the type locality in South Africa. A 
wider distribution of S. subvittata in Australia and Asia is revealed by 
extensive pupal exuviae sampled from drift.

DOI: 10.11646/zootaxa.4450.1.3
PMID: 30313856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Cells. 2018 Oct 11;7(10):164. doi: 10.3390/cells7100164.

Influence of Molecular Design on the Targeting Properties of ABD-Fused Mono- and 
Bi-Valent Anti-HER3 Affibody Therapeutic Constructs.

Altai M(1)(2), Leitao CD(3), Rinne SS(4), Vorobyeva A(5), Atterby C(6), Ståhl 
S(7), Tolmachev V(8), Löfblom J(9), Orlova A(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University, 751 85 
Uppsala, Sweden. Mohamed.altai@igp.uu.se.
(2)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Uppsala University, 751 23 Uppsala, 
Sweden. Mohamed.altai@igp.uu.se.
(3)Department of Protein Science, School of Engineering Sciences in Chemistry, 
Biotechnology and Health, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, 106 91 Stockholm, 
Sweden. chdl@kth.se.
(4)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Uppsala University, 751 23 Uppsala, 
Sweden. sara.rinne@ilk.uu.se.
(5)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University, 751 85 
Uppsala, Sweden. anzhelika.vorobyeva@igp.uu.se.
(6)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University, 751 85 
Uppsala, Sweden. christina.atterby@igp.uu.se.
(7)Department of Protein Science, School of Engineering Sciences in Chemistry, 
Biotechnology and Health, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, 106 91 Stockholm, 
Sweden. stefans@biotech.kth.se.
(8)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University, 751 85 
Uppsala, Sweden. Vladimir.tolmachev@igp.uu.se.
(9)Department of Protein Science, School of Engineering Sciences in Chemistry, 
Biotechnology and Health, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, 106 91 Stockholm, 
Sweden. lofblom@kth.se.
(10)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Uppsala University, 751 23 Uppsala, 
Sweden. anna.orlova@ilk.uu.se.
(11)Science for Life Laboratory, Uppsala University, 752 37 Uppsala, Sweden. 
anna.orlova@ilk.uu.se.

Overexpression of human epidermal growth factor receptor type 3 (HER3) is 
associated with tumour cell resistance to HER-targeted therapies. Monoclonal 
antibodies (mAbs) targeting HER3 are currently being investigated for treatment 
of various types of cancers. Cumulative evidence suggests that affibody 
molecules may be appropriate alternatives to mAbs. We previously reported a 
fusion construct (3A3) containing two HER3-targeting affibody molecules flanking 
an engineered albumin-binding domain (ABD035) included for the extension of 
half-life in circulation. The 3A3 fusion protein (19.7 kDa) was shown to delay 
tumour growth in mice bearing HER3-expressing xenografts and was equipotent to 
the mAb seribantumab. Here, we have designed and explored a series of novel 
formats of anti-HER3 affibody molecules fused to the ABD in different 
orientations. All constructs inhibited heregulin-induced phosphorylation in 
HER3-expressing BxPC-3 and DU-145 cell lines. Biodistribution studies 
demonstrated extended the half-life of all ABD-fused constructs, although at 
different levels. The capacity of our ABD-fused proteins to accumulate in 
HER3-expressing tumours was demonstrated in nude mice bearing BxPC-3 xenografts. 
Formats where the ABD was located on the C-terminus of affibody binding domains 
(3A, 33A, and 3A3) provided the best tumour targeting properties in vivo. 
Further development of these promising candidates for treatment of 
HER3-overexpressing tumours is therefore justified.

DOI: 10.3390/cells7100164
PMCID: PMC6210767
PMID: 30314301

Conflict of interest statement: S.S., V.T., and A.O. own shares in Affibody AB. 
M.A., S.S.R., C.D.L., A.V., and C.A. declare no conflict of interest.


467. BMC Fam Pract. 2018 Oct 12;19(1):169. doi: 10.1186/s12875-018-0856-9.

How general practitioners would deprescribe in frail oldest-old with 
polypharmacy - the LESS study.

Mantelli S(1), Jungo KT(1), Rozsnyai Z(1), Reeve E(2)(3)(4), Luymes CH(5), 
Poortvliet RKE(5), Chiolero A(1)(6), Rodondi N(1)(7), Gussekloo J(5)(8), Streit 
S(9).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Primary Health Care Bern(BIHAM), University of Bern, 
Mittelstrasse 43, 3012, Bern, Switzerland.
(2)NHMRC Cognitive Decline Partnership Centre, Kolling Institute of Medical 
Research, Northern Clinical School, Faculty of Medicine and Health, University 
of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(3)Geriatric Medicine Research, Dalhousie University and Nova Scotia Health 
Authority, Halifax, NS, Canada.
(4)College of Pharmacy, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada.
(5)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Leiden University Medical 
Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill 
University, Montreal, Canada.
(7)Department of General Internal Medicine, Inselspital, Bern University 
Hospital, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(8)Department of Internal Medicine, section Gerontology and Geriatrics, Leiden 
University Medical Center, Leiden, the Netherlands.
(9)Institute of Primary Health Care Bern(BIHAM), University of Bern, 
Mittelstrasse 43, 3012, Bern, Switzerland. sven.streit@biham.unibe.ch.

BACKGROUND: Many oldest-old (> 80-years) with multimorbidity and polypharmacy 
are at high risk of inappropriate use of medication, but we know little about 
whether and how GPs would deprescribe, especially in the frail oldest-old. We 
aimed to determine whether, how, and why Swiss GPs deprescribe for this 
population.
METHODS: GPs took an online survey that presented case-vignettes of a frail 
oldest-old patient with and without history of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and 
asked if they would deprescribe any of seven medications. We calculated 
percentages of GPs willing to deprescribe at least one medication in the case 
with CVD and compared these with the case without CVD using paired t-tests. We 
also included open-ended questions to capture reasons for deprescribing and 
asked which factors could influence their decision to deprescribe by asking for 
their agreement on a 5-point-Likert-scale.
RESULTS: Of the 282 GPs we invited, 157 (56%) responded: 73% were men; mean age 
was 56. In the case-vignette without CVD, 98% of GPs deprescribed at least one 
medication (usually cardiovascular preventive medications) stating it had no 
indication nor benefit. They would lower the dose or prescribe pain medication 
as needed to reduce side effects. Their response was much the same when the 
patient had a history of CVD. GPs reported they were influenced by 'risk' and 
'benefit' of medications, 'quality of life', and 'life expectancy', and 
prioritized the patient's wishes and priorities when deprescribing.
CONCLUSION: Swiss GPs were willing to deprescribe cardiovascular preventive 
medication when it lacked indication but tended to retain pain medication. 
Developing tools for GPs to assist them in balancing the risks and benefits of 
medication in the context of patient values may improve deprescribing activities 
in practice.

DOI: 10.1186/s12875-018-0856-9
PMCID: PMC6186124
PMID: 30314468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The 
study has been approved by the Ethics Committee of the Canton of Bern (reference 
number 2017–02188). GPs were informed in writing about the goals of the study 
and that data would be anonymized. GPs were informed that they were granting 
consent by clicking to access the survey. The Ethics Committee reviewed and 
approved this process, which accords with the Swiss Human Research Act 
(Humanforschungsgesetz, HFG). CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING 
INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing interests. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


468. Value Health. 2018 Oct;21(10):1176-1185. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2018.03.007.
Epub  2018 Apr 24.

A Generic Model for Follicular Lymphoma: Predicting Cost, Life Expectancy, and 
Quality-Adjusted-Life-Year Using UK Population-Based Observational Data.

Wang HI(1), Roman E(2), Crouch S(2), Aas E(3), Burton C(4), Patmore R(5), Smith 
A(2).

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology & Cancer Statistics Group (ECSG), Department of Health Sciences, 
University of York, York, UK. Electronic address: han-i.wang@york.ac.uk.
(2)Epidemiology & Cancer Statistics Group (ECSG), Department of Health Sciences, 
University of York, York, UK.
(3)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, University of Oslo; 
Oslo, Norway.
(4)Haematological Malignancy Diagnostic Service, St. James's University 
Hospital, Leeds, UK.
(5)Queen's Centre for Oncology and Haematology, Castle Hill Hospital, Hull, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To use real-world data to develop a flexible generic decision model 
to predict cost, life expectancy, and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for 
follicular lymphoma (FL) in the general patient population.
METHODS: All patients newly diagnosed with FL in the UK's population-based 
Haematological Malignancy Research Network (www.hmrn.org) between 2004 and 2011 
were followed until 2015 (N = 740). Treatment pathways, QALYs, and costs were 
incorporated into a discrete event simulation to reflect patient heterogeneity, 
including age and disease management. Two scenario analyses, based on the latest 
National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidelines 
(rituximab induction therapy for newly diagnosed asymptomatic patients and 
rituximab maintenance therapy for patients between treatments), were conducted 
and their economic impacts were compared to current practice.
RESULTS: Incidence-based analysis revealed expected average lifetime costs 
ranging from £6,165 [US$7,709] to £63,864 [US$79,862] per patient, and average 
life expectancy from 75 days to 17.56 years. Prevalence-based analysis estimated 
average annual treatment costs of £60-65 million [US$75-80 million], accounting 
for approximately 10% of the United Kingdom's annual National Health Service 
budget for hematological cancers as a whole. Assuming that treatment effects 
reported in trials are applicable to all patient groups, scenario analyses for 
two recent NICE guidelines demonstrated potential annual cost savings for the 
United Kingdom that ranged with uptake frequency from £0.6 million to £11 
million [US$0.75-2.75 million].
CONCLUSIONS: Costs, survival, and QALYs associated with FL vary markedly with 
patient characteristics and disease management. Allowing the production of more 
realistic outcomes across the patient population as a whole, our model addresses 
this heterogeneity and is a useful tool with which to evaluate new 
technologies/treatments to support healthcare decision makers.

Copyright © 2018 ISPOR --The Professional Society for Health Economics and 
Outcomes Research. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2018.03.007
PMCID: PMC6191529
PMID: 30314618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Value Health. 2018 Oct;21(10):1234-1242. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2018.03.016.
Epub  2018 May 21.

Estimating a Dutch Value Set for the Pediatric Preference-Based CHU9D Using a 
Discrete Choice Experiment with Duration.

Rowen D(1), Mulhern B(2), Stevens K(3), Vermaire JH(4).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. Electronic address: 
d.rowen@sheffield.ac.uk.
(2)Centre for Health Economics Research and Evaluation, University of Technology 
Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(3)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(4)TNO Child Health, Oral Health Division, Leiden, The Netherlands; Centrum voor 
Tandheelkunde en Mondzorgkunde, University of Groningen, Groningen, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: This article presents the development of the Dutch value set for the 
Child Health Utility 9D, a pediatric preference-based measure of quality of life 
that can be used to generate quality-adjusted life-years.
METHODS: A large online survey was conducted using a discrete choice experiment 
including a duration attribute with adult members of the Netherlands general 
population (N = 1276) who were representative in terms of age, gender, marital 
status, employment, education, and region. Respondents were asked which of two 
health states they prefer, where each health state was described using the nine 
dimensions of the Child Health Utility 9D (worried, sad, pain, tired, annoyed, 
