DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0000000000001784
PMID: 30212439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Asian Spine J. 2018 Oct;12(5):846-853. doi: 10.31616/asj.2018.12.5.846. Epub
 2018 Sep 10.

Outcomes and Prognosis of Neurological Decompression and Stabilization for 
Spinal Metastasis: Is Assessment with the Spinal Instability Neoplastic Score 
Useful for Predicting Surgical Results?

Masuda K(1), Ebata K(1), Yasuhara Y(1), Enomoto A(1), Saito T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Yokosuka Kyosai Hospital, Yokosuka, Japan.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Yokohama City University School of 
Medicine, Yokohama, Japan.

STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective study.
PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy of the Spinal Instability Neoplastic Score 
(SINS) in predicting surgical outcomes and survival. Patients were categorized 
into two groups according to the SINS, and their surgical outcomes and survival 
following decompression and stabilization were assessed.
OVERVIEW OF LITERATURE: Palliative surgery in patients with a life expectancy ≥3 
months may effectively improve their overall condition in the long term. 
Currently, the effectiveness of the SINS for predicting surgical results and 
survival remains controversial.
METHODS: This study included 44 patients who underwent decompression and 
stabilization for spinal metastases at Yokosuka Kyosai Hospital between 2008 and 
2017. The patients were divided into two groups: stable (SINS ≤12) and unstable 
(SINS ≥13). Changes in the Frankel score and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
Performance Status (ECOG-PS) were compared between the two groups, and patient 
survival was evaluated according to the SINS, Tokuhashi score, and Katagiri 
score.
RESULTS: The stable group (SINS range, 7-12) included 24 patients while the 
unstable group (SINS range, 13-16) included 20 patients. The Frankel score 
significantly improved from 2.8 to 3.6 in the stable group (p <0.001) and from 
2.7 to 3.9 in the unstable group (p <0.001). The ECOG-PS significantly improved 
from 3.2 to 2.1 in the stable group (p <0.001) and from 3.0 to 1.8 in the 
unstable group (p <0.001). There was a statistically significant difference in 
median survival between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: All patients treated with palliative surgery showed favorable 
outcomes, as indicated by improved the Frankel score and ECOG-PS following 
surgery. However, median survival was significantly better in the stable group. 
The results of this study indicate that the SINS is appropriate for surgical 
decision making and may be used to predict survival.

DOI: 10.31616/asj.2018.12.5.846
PMCID: PMC6147881
PMID: 30213167

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


141. Vaccine. 2018 Oct 8;36(42):6307-6313. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2018.08.084.
Epub  2018 Sep 10.

Retrospective cost-effectiveness of the 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide 
vaccination program in Australia.

Chen C(1), Beutels P(2), Wood J(3), Menzies R(3), MacIntyre CR(3), McIntyre 
P(4), Newall AT(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of New South 
Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia. Electronic address: chen.chen@unsw.edu.au.
(2)Centre for Health Economics Research and Modelling Infectious Diseases 
(CHERMID), Vaccine and Infectious Disease Institute, University of Antwerp, 
Antwerp, Belgium.
(3)School of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of New South 
Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(4)National Centre for Immunisation Research and Surveillance of Vaccine 
Preventable Diseases (NCIRS), Kids Research Institute, Children's Hospital at 
Westmead, NSW, Australia.

Comment in
    Vaccine. 2019 May 27;37(24):3141.

BACKGROUND: The Australian infant pneumococcal vaccination program was funded in 
2005 using the 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV7) and the 13-valent 
conjugate vaccine (PCV13) in 2011. The PCV7 and PCV13 programs resulted in herd 
immunity effects across all age-groups, including older adults. Coincident with 
the introduction of the PCV7 program in 2005, 23-valent pneumococcal 
polysaccharide vaccine (PPV23) was funded for all Australian adults aged over 
65 years.
METHODS: A multi-cohort Markov model with a cycle length of one year was 
developed to retrospectively evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the PPV23 
immunisation program from 2005 to 2015. The analysis was performed from the 
healthcare system perspective with costs and quality-adjusted life years 
discounted at 5% annually. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for 
PPV23 doses provided from 2005 to 2015 was calculated separately for each year 
when compared to no vaccination. Parameter uncertainty was explored using 
deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: It was estimated that PPV23 doses given out over the 11-year period 
from 2005 to 2015 prevented 771 hospitalisations and 99 deaths from invasive 
pneumococcal disease (IPD). However, the estimated IPD cases and deaths 
prevented by PPV23 declined by more than 50% over this period (e.g. from 12.9 
deaths for doses given out in 2005 to 6.1 in 2015), likely driven by herd 
effects from infant PCV programs. The estimated ICER over the period 2005 to 
2015 was approximately A$224,000/QALY gained compared to no vaccination. When 
examined per year, the ICER for each individual year worsened from $140,000/QALY 
in 2005 to $238,000/QALY in 2011 to $286,000/QALY in 2015.
CONCLUSION: The cost-effectiveness of the PPV23 program in older Australians was 
estimated to have worsened over time. It is unlikely to have been 
cost-effective, unless PPV23 provided protection against non-invasive 
pneumococcal pneumonia and/or a low vaccine price was negotiated. A key policy 
priority should be to review of the future use of PPV23 in Australia, which is 
likely to be more cost-effective in certain high-risk groups.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2018.08.084
PMID: 30213457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Sci Rep. 2018 Sep 13;8(1):13791. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-32066-1.

Low survival of strongly footed pheasants may explain constraints on 
lateralization.

Whiteside MA(1), Bess MM(2), Frasnelli E(3), Beardsworth CE(2), Langley EJG(2), 
van Horik JO(2), Madden JR(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research in Animal Behaviour, Psychology, University of Exeter, 
Exeter, EX4 4QG, UK. M.Whiteside@exeter.ac.uk.
(2)Centre for Research in Animal Behaviour, Psychology, University of Exeter, 
Exeter, EX4 4QG, UK.
(3)School of Life Sciences, University of Lincoln, Lincoln, LN6 7DL, UK.

Brain lateralization is considered adaptive because it leads to behavioral 
biases and specializations that bring fitness benefits. Across species, strongly 
lateralized individuals perform better in specific behaviors likely to improve 
survival. What constrains continued exaggerated lateralization? We measured 
survival of pheasants, finding that individuals with stronger bias in their 
footedness had shorter life expectancies compared to individuals with weak 
biases. Consequently, weak, or no footedness provided the highest fitness 
benefits. If, as suggested, footedness is indicative of more general brain 
lateralization, this could explain why continued brain lateralization is 
constrained even though it may improve performance in specific behaviors.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-32066-1
PMCID: PMC6137170
PMID: 30214056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


143. Int J Chron Obstruct Pulmon Dis. 2018 Sep 3;13:2707-2720. doi: 
10.2147/COPD.S167730. eCollection 2018.

Cost-effectiveness of roflumilast as an add-on to triple inhaled therapy vs 
triple inhaled therapy in patients with severe and very severe COPD associated 
with chronic bronchitis in the UK.

Kiff C(1), Ruiz S(2), Varol N(3), Gibson D(4), Davies A(1), Purkayastha D(5).

Author information:
(1)ICON plc, Abingdon, UK.
(2)AstraZeneca, Barcelona, Spain, sandrine.ruiz@astrazeneca.com.
(3)AstraZeneca, Cambridge, UK.
(4)AstraZeneca, Luton, UK.
(5)Phastar, Manchester, UK.

PURPOSE: Patients with severe COPD are at high risk of experiencing disease 
exacerbations, which require additional treatment and are associated with 
elevated mortality and increased risk of future exacerbations. Some patients 
continue to experience exacerbations despite receiving triple inhaled therapy 
(ICS plus LAMA plus LABA). Roflumilast is recommended by the Global Initiative 
for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease as add-on treatment to triple inhaled 
therapy for these patients. This cost-effectiveness analysis compared costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years for roflumilast plus triple inhaled therapy vs 
triple inhaled therapy alone, using data from the REACT and RE2SPOND trials.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients included in the analysis had severe to very 
severe COPD, FEV1 <50% predicted, symptoms of chronic bronchitis and ≥2 
exacerbations per year. Our model was adapted from a previously published and 
validated model, and the analyses conducted from a UK National Health Service 
perspective. A scenario analysis considered a subset of patients who had 
experienced at least one COPD-related hospitalization within the previous year.
RESULTS: Roflumilast as add-on to triple inhaled therapy was associated with 
non-significant reductions in rates of both moderate and severe exacerbations 
compared with triple inhaled therapy alone. The incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) for roflumilast as add-on to triple inhaled therapy was £24,976. In 
patients who had experienced previous hospitalization, roflumilast was 
associated with a non-significant reduction in the rate of moderate 
exacerbations, and a statistically significant reduction in the rate of severe 
exacerbations. The ICER for roflumilast in this population was £7,087.
CONCLUSIONS: Roflumilast is a cost-effective treatment option for patients with 
severe or very severe COPD, chronic bronchitis, and a history of exacerbations. 
The availability of roflumilast as add-on treatment addresses an important unmet 
need in this patient population.

DOI: 10.2147/COPD.S167730
PMCID: PMC6128277
PMID: 30214188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Theranostics. 2018 Jul 30;8(16):4345-4358. doi: 10.7150/thno.26862.
eCollection  2018.

Transcriptomic signature associated with carcinogenesis and aggressiveness of 
papillary thyroid carcinoma.

Teng H(1), Mao F(1), Liang J(1), Xue M(1)(2), Wei W(1)(2), Li X(1), Zhang K(3), 
Feng D(4), Liu B(4), Sun Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Institutes of Life Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)Institute of Genomic Medicine, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, China.
(4)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis and 
Translational Research (Ministry of Education), Peking University Cancer 
Hospital and Institute, Beijing, China.

Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is the fastest-growing disease caused by 
numerous molecular alterations in addition to previously reported DNA mutations. 
There is a compelling need to identify novel transcriptomic alterations that are 
associated with the pathogenesis of PTC with potential diagnostic and prognostic 
implications. Methods: We gathered and compared 242 expression profiles between 
paired PTC and adjacent normal tissues and identified and validated the coding 
and long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) associated with the extrathyroidal extension 
(ETE) of 655 PTC patients in two independent cohorts, followed by predicting 
their interactions with drugs. Co-expression, RNA interaction, Kaplan-Meier 
survival and multivariate Cox proportional regression analyses were performed to 
identify dysregulated lncRNAs and genes that correlated with clinical outcomes 
of PTC. Alternative splicing (AS), RNA circularization, and editing were also 
compared between transcriptomes to expand the repertoire of molecular 
alterations in PTC. Results: Numerous genes related to cellular microenvironment 
and steroid hormone response were associated with the ETE of PTC. Drug 
susceptibility predictions of the expression signature revealed two highly 
ranked compounds, 6-bromoindirubin-3'-oxime and lovastatin. Co-expression and 
RNA interaction analysis revealed the essential role of lncRNAs in PTC 
pathogenesis by modulating extracellular matrix and cell adhesion. Eight genes 
and two novel lncRNAs were identified that correlated with the aggressive nature 
and disease-free survival of PTC. Furthermore, this study provided the 
transcriptome-wide landscape of circRNAs in PTC and uncovered dissimilar 
expression profiles among circRNAs originating from the same host gene, 
suggesting the functional complexity of circRNAs in PTC carcinogenesis. The 
newly identified AS events in the SERPINA1 and FN1 genes may improve the 
sensitivity and specificity of these diagnostic biomarkers. Conclusions: Our 
study uncovered a comprehensive transcriptomic signature associated with the 
carcinogenesis and aggressive behavior of PTC, as well as presents a catalog of 
10 potential biomarkers, which would facilitate PTC prognosis and development of 
new therapeutic strategies for this cancer.

DOI: 10.7150/thno.26862
PMCID: PMC6134936
PMID: 30214625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


145. Rejuvenation Res. 2019 Jun;22(3):210-217. doi: 10.1089/rej.2018.2095. Epub
2018  Dec 12.

Pleiotropic Effects of French Maritime Pine Bark Extract to Promote Healthy 
Aging.

Rohdewald P(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, University of Münster, Münster, 
Germany.

Extension of the healthy life span is of primary importance for the aging 
society. Among exercise, healthy nutrition, and mental training, food 
supplements are widely used as preventive measures to postpone the diverse 
symptoms of aging. The extract from the bark of the French maritime pine, 
Pycnogenol, rich on flavonoids, has anti-inflammatory and antioxidative 
property, proven in in vivo studies. The extract reduces oxidative stress and 
improves endothelial health. Its antithrombotic properties are based on 
inhibition of platelet aggregation. In double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical 
studies, Pycnogenol shows diverse positive effects. With respect to 
cardiovascular symptoms, the extract has an antihypertensive effect, slows down 
the progression of atherosclerosis, and prevents venous thrombosis. As reported 
in studies in China and the United States, type 2 diabetes and diabetic 
retinopathy is improved with Pycnogenol. The extract restores mobility of 
seniors in case of patients suffering from osteoarthritis, Pycnogenol reduces 
pain and stiffness and use of analgesics. Furthermore, cognitive functions of 
elderly people, especially spatial memory, are significantly ameliorated. 
Climacteric symptoms are significantly alleviated by the pine bark extract. 
Urinary symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia are reduced by Pycnogenol. In 
combination with L-arginine, Pycnogenol restores erectile function in men with 
erectile dysfunction. The sum of these positive effects on relevant symptoms of 
aging suggests using Pycnogenol for a more extended period of healthy aging.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2018.2095
PMID: 30215292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Tijdschr Psychiatr. 2016;58(1):61-66.

[Screening for metabolic syndrome in older patients with severe mental illness].

[Article in Dutch]

Konz HW, Meesters PD, Paans NPG, van Grootheest DS, Comijs HC, Stek MS, Dols A.

Diabetes, cardiovascular disease and metabolic syndrome are more prevalent in 
older patients with severe mental illness (smi) than in healthy older persons in 
the same age-group as the smi patients. Compared to the general population, smi 
patients are often in a poorer state of (physical) health and have a shorter 
life expectancy.<br/> AIM: To assess the value of screening older smi patients 
(≥ 60) for metabolic syndrome.<br/> METHOD: We performed a prospective 
evaluation of the metabolic screening outcome data relating to 100 older smi 
patients and 124 healthy older patients and compared the results.<br/> RESULTS: 
In our smi patients (average age 69 years; 52% bipolar disorder, 48% 
schizophrenia) the frequency of metabolic syndrome (43%) was no higher than in 
healthy older persons (39.5%, p = 0.60). However, in 51% of the smi sample, 
metabolic screening detected at least one metabolic abnormality in a patient 
with no previous history for that specific parameter.<br/> CONCLUSION: By making 
routine metabolic screening available to a greater number of older smi patients, 
we should be able to identify substantial numbers of metabolic abnormalities 
that have been previously overlooked.

PMID: 30215454


147. Am Fam Physician. 2018 Aug 15;98(4):214-220.

Preoperative Assessment in Older Adults: A Comprehensive Approach.

Kumar C(1), Salzman B(2), Colburn JL(3).

Author information:
(1)Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA.
(2)Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(3)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Surgical outcomes are significantly influenced by patients' overall health, 
function, and life expectancy. A comprehensive geriatric preoperative assessment 
of older adults requires expanding beyond an organ-based or disease-based 
assessment. At a preoperative visit, it is important to establish the patient's 
goals and preferences, and to determine whether the risks and benefits of 
surgery match these goals and preferences. These discussions should cover the 
possibility of resuscitation and ventilator support, prolonged rehabilitation, 
and loss of independence. The assessment should include evaluation of medical 
comorbidities, cognitive function, decision-making capacity, functional status, 
fall risk, frailty, nutritional status, and potentially inappropriate medication 
use. Problems identified in any of these key areas are associated with an 
increased risk of postoperative complications, institutionalization, functional 
decline, and, in some cases, mortality. If a patient elects to proceed with 
surgery, the risks should be communicated to surgical teams to allow for 
inpatient interventions that lower the risk of postoperative complications and 
functional decline, such as early mobilization and limiting medications that can 
cause delirium. Alcohol abuse and smoking are associated with increased rates of 
postoperative complications, and physicians should discuss cessation with 
patients before surgery. Physicians should also assess patients' social support 
systems because they are a critical component of discharge planning in this 
population and have been shown to predict 30-day postoperative morbidity.

PMID: 30215973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Am Fam Physician. 2018 Jun 15;97(12):798-805.

Localized Prostate Cancer: Treatment Options.

Brawley S(1), Mohan R(1), Nein CD(1).

Author information:
(1)Eastern Virginia Medical School, Portsmouth, VA, USA.

In the United States, prostate cancer will be diagnosed in one out of seven men 
in his lifetime. Most cases are localized, and only one in 39 men will die from 
the disease. Prostate cancer is most often detected using serum 
prostate-specific antigen testing. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network 
guidelines use four main factors to stratify risk of disease progression or 
recurrence and to determine the recommended treatment: clinical stage, 
pathologic grade, prostate-specific antigen level, and comorbidity-adjusted life 
expectancy. Radical prostatectomy or external beam radiation therapy should be 
considered for patients with high-risk prostate cancer regardless of 
comorbidity-adjusted life expectancy. These treatments are almost equivalent in 
effectiveness but have different adverse effect profiles. Patients who undergo 
radical prostatectomy are more likely to experience urinary incontinence and 
trouble obtaining or sustaining an erection compared with patients who opt for 
radiation therapy. Brachytherapy is an option for patients with low-risk disease 
and some patients with intermediate-risk disease. Active surveillance is an 
option for patients with low-risk and very low-risk disease. With active 
surveillance, patients are closely followed and undergo invasive treatments only 
if the cancer progresses. Prostate cancer progression may be indicated by an 
increase in the pathologic grade, a significant rise in serum prostate-specific 
antigen level, or an abnormality on digital rectal examination.

PMID: 30216009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Am Fam Physician. 2018 Jun 15;97(12):776-784.

Geriatric Assessment: An Office-Based Approach.

Tatum Iii PE(1), Talebreza S(2), Ross JS(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, USA.
(2)University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.
(3)University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, TX, USA.

Family physicians should be proficient in geriatric assessment because, as 
society ages, older adults will constitute an increasing proportion of patients. 
Geriatric assessment evaluates medical, social, and environmental factors that 
influence overall well-being, and addresses functional status, fall risk, 
medication review, nutrition, vision, hearing, cognition, mood, and toileting. 
The Medicare Annual Wellness Visit includes the key elements of geriatric 
assessment performed by family physicians. Comprehensive geriatric assessment 
can lead to early recognition of problems that impair quality of life by 
identifying areas for focused intervention, but a rolling geriatric assessment 
over several visits can also effectively identify subtle or hidden problems. 
Assessment should be tailored to patient goals of care and life expectancy. By 
asking patients and families to self-assess risks using precompleted forms, and 
by using trained office staff to complete validated assessment tools, family 
physicians can maximize efficiency by focusing on identified problems. Fall risk 
can be assessed with a single screening question: "Have you fallen in the past 
year?" The Beers, STOPP (screening tool of older persons' prescriptions), and 
START (screening tool to alert doctors to right treatment) criteria are helpful 
resources for reviewing the appropriateness of medications in older adults. 
Screening for depression is recommended when depression care supports are 
available; this can be performed with a brief two-item screen, the Patient 
Health Questionnaire-2. Older adults should be screened for unintentional weight 
loss and malnutrition. Although rates of hearing loss and vision loss increase 
with age, there is insufficient evidence to recommend screening in asymptomatic 
individuals. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force advises clinicians to 
assess cognition when there is suspicion of impairment. Urinary incontinence can 
impair patients' quality of life, and it can be assessed with a two-question 
screening tool. Immunizations and advance care planning are also important 
components of the geriatric assessment.

PMID: 30216018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. J Affect Disord. 2019 Jan 1;242:244-254. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.08.024.
Epub  2018 Aug 9.

The cost-utility of stepped-care algorithms according to depression guideline 
recommendations - Results of a state-transition model analysis.

Meeuwissen JAC(1), Feenstra TL(2), Smit F(3), Blankers M(4), Spijker J(5), 
Bockting CLH(6), van Balkom AJLM(7), Buskens E(8).

Author information:
(1)Trimbos Institute, Netherlands Institute of Mental Health and Addiction, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands. Electronic address: jmeeuwissen@trimbos.nl.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Unit Health Technology Assessment, University 
Medical Center Groningen, The University of Groningen, Groningen, The 
Netherlands; Center for Nutrition, Prevention and Health Services, National 
Institute for Public Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, The Netherlands.
(3)Trimbos Institute, Netherlands Institute of Mental Health and Addiction, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands; Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics and 
Department of Clinical, Neuro and Developmental Psychology, Amsterdam Public 
Health Research Institute, VU University Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Trimbos Institute, Netherlands Institute of Mental Health and Addiction, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands; Department of Research, Arkin Mental Health Care, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Department of Psychiatry, Academic Medical Centre, 
University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Program for Mood Disorders, 
Pro Persona Mental Health Care, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(5)Trimbos Institute, Netherlands Institute of Mental Health and Addiction, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands; Behavioral Science Institute, Radboud University, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Amsterdam UMC, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, Amsterdam UMC, VU University, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(8)Department of Epidemiology, Unit Health Technology Assessment, University 
Medical Center Groningen, The University of Groningen, Groningen, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Evidence-based clinical guidelines for major depressive disorder 
(MDD) recommend stepped-care strategies for sequencing evidence-based treatments 
conditional on treatment outcomes. This study aims to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of stepped care as recommended by the multidisciplinary 
clinical guideline vis-à-vis usual care in the Netherlands.
METHODS: Guideline-congruent care as described in stepped-care algorithms for 
either mild MDD or moderate and severe MDD was compared with usual care in a 
health-economic state-transition simulation model. Incremental costs per QALY 
gained were estimated over five years from a healthcare perspective.
RESULTS: For mild MDD, the cost-utility analysis showed a 67% likelihood of 
better health outcomes against lower costs, and 33% likelihood of better 
outcomes against higher costs, implying dominance of guideline-congruent stepped 
care. For moderate and severe MDD, the cost-utility analysis indicated a 67% 
likelihood of health gains at higher costs following the stepped-care approach 
and 33% likelihood of health gains at lower costs, with a mean ICER of about 
€3,200 per QALY gained. At a willingness to pay threshold of €20,000 per QALY, 
the stepped-care algorithms for both mild MDD and moderate or severe MDD is 
deemed cost-effective compared to usual care with a greater than 95% 
probability.
LIMITATIONS: The findings of our decision-analytic modelling are limited by the 
accuracy and availability of the underlying evidence. This hampers taking into 
account all individual differences relevant to optimise treatment to individual 
needs.
CONCLUSIONS: It is highly likely that guideline-congruent stepped care for MDD 
is cost-effective compared to usual care. Our findings support current guideline 
recommendations.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2018.08.024
PMID: 30216769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Surg Oncol. 2018 Sep;27(3):462-467. doi: 10.1016/j.suronc.2018.05.028. Epub
2018  May 31.

Predictors of survival after intramedullary nail fixation of completed or 
impending pathologic femur fractures from metastatic disease.

Kotian RN(1), Puvanesarajah V(2), Rao S(3), El Abiad JM(4), Morris CD(5), Levin 
AS(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The Johns Hopkins University, 601 North 
Caroline Street, Baltimore, MD 21287, USA. Electronic address: 
rkotian1@jhmi.edu.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The Johns Hopkins University, 601 North 
Caroline Street, Baltimore, MD 21287, USA. Electronic address: 
vpuvane1@jhmi.edu.
(3)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The Johns Hopkins University, 601 North 
Caroline Street, Baltimore, MD 21287, USA. Electronic address: srao16@jhmi.edu.
(4)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The Johns Hopkins University, 601 North 
Caroline Street, Baltimore, MD 21287, USA. Electronic address: 
jelabia1@jhmi.edu.
(5)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The Johns Hopkins University, 601 North 
Caroline Street, Baltimore, MD 21287, USA. Electronic address: 
cmorri61@jhmi.edu.
(6)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The Johns Hopkins University, 601 North 
Caroline Street, Baltimore, MD 21287, USA. Electronic address: 
alevin25@jhmi.edu.

BACKGROUND: Surgical decision-making can be challenging when treating patients 
with osseous metastases. Numerous factors, including expected duration of 
survival, must be considered to ensure optimal operative stabilization of the 
affected bone. However, life expectancy of patients with metastatic carcinoma is 
often difficult to estimate. The goal of our study was to assess the 
associations of various clinical and demographic factors with survival time 
after intramedullary nail fixation of impending or completed pathologic femur 
fractures.
METHODS: One hundred thirty-eight consecutive patients treated with 
intramedullary nail fixation for impending or completed pathologic femur 
fractures between 2005 and 2017 were included in this study. Factors related to 
patient survival were assessed with Cox multivariate survival analysis. For all 
analyses, p < 0.05 was considered significant.
RESULTS: The median overall postoperative survival time was 8.4 months. Lower 
hemoglobin concentration (p = 0.001), lower albumin concentration (p = 0.002), 
and having a group 2 primary cancer (p = 0.001) were associated with shorter 
survival on multivariate analysis. When considering the subgroup of 88 
prophylactically stabilized patients, lower hemoglobin concentration 
(p = 0.005), lower albumin concentration (p = 0.015), and having a group 2 
primary cancer (p = 0.037) were predictive of shorter survival.
CONCLUSION: Several factors are associated with shorter survival after 
intramedullary nail fixation of pathologic femur fractures. These factors should 
be considered by orthopedic surgeons when educating patients and determining 
appropriate treatment.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.suronc.2018.05.028
PMID: 30217303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2018 Dec;56(6):962-974. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2018.08.019. Epub 2018 Sep 11.

Managing Medicines for Patients Dying at Home: A Review of Family Caregivers' 
Experiences.

Wilson E(1), Caswell G(2), Turner N(2), Pollock K(2).

Author information:
(1)Nottingham Centre for the Advancement of Research in End of Life Care 
(NCARE), School of Health Sciences, University of Nottingham, Medical School, 
Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
eleanor.wilson@nottingham.ac.uk.
(2)Nottingham Centre for the Advancement of Research in End of Life Care 
(NCARE), School of Health Sciences, University of Nottingham, Medical School, 
Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham, United Kingdom.

CONTEXT: Increased life expectancy, technical advances in treatment and symptom 
control, and the extension of palliative care in community settings not only 
lengthen life but also make it possible for many patients to be cared for, and 
to die, at home. Moreover, death increasingly occurs in late old age and after a 
prolonged period of comorbidity and/or frailty. This has far-reaching 
consequences for the way that professional services are resourced and organized 
and for the informal carers who are often responsible for providing the greater 
part of patient care, including management of complex medication regimes.
OBJECTIVES: To explore the literature focused on family caregivers' (FCGs) 
experiences of medication management for patients being cared for and dying at 
home.
METHODS: This literature review takes a critical interpretive synthesis approach 
to the review of 15 identified articles.
RESULTS: Findings show that FCGs can struggle to manage medications for someone 
who is dying at home, yet there is an expectation that they will take on these 
roles and are often judged by professional standards. Five key themes identified 
particular issues around administration, organizational skills, empowerment, 
relationships, and support.
CONCLUSION: As increasing demands are placed on FCGs, there remains limited 
acknowledgment or understanding of the challenges they face, how they cope, or 
could be best supported. Alongside training, FCGs need access to 24 hours of 
support and medication reviews to rationalize unnecessary medications. 
Furthermore, the ethical challenges arising from administering medicines at the 
end of life also need to be acknowledged and discussed.

Crown Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2018.08.019
PMID: 30217417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Brain Behav Immun. 2018 Nov;74:213-221. doi: 10.1016/j.bbi.2018.09.008. Epub
 2018 Sep 11.

Sickness behavior is not all about the immune response: Possible roles of 
expectations and prediction errors in the worry of being sick.

Lasselin J(1), Petrovic P(2), Olsson MJ(3), Paues Göranson S(4), Lekander M(5), 
Jensen KB(2), Axelsson J(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Psychology Division, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; Stress Research Institute, Stockholm University, 
Stockholm, Sweden; Institute of Medical Psychology and Behavioral Immunobiology, 
University Hospital Essen, Essen, Germany. Electronic address: 
julie.lasselin@su.se.
(2)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Neuro Division, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden; Osher Center for Integrative Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Psychology Division, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Department of Clinical Sciences, Danderyd Hospital, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Psychology Division, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; Stress Research Institute, Stockholm University, 
Stockholm, Sweden; Osher Center for Integrative Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: People react very differently when sick, and there are only poor 
correlations between the intensity of the immune response and sickness behavior. 
Yet, alternative predictors of the individual differences in sickness are 
under-investigated. Based on the predictive coding model of placebo responses, 
where health outcomes are function of bottom-up sensory information and top-down 
expectancies, we hypothesized that individual differences in behavioral changes 
during sickness could be explained by individual top-down expectancies and 
prediction errors.
METHODS: Twenty-two healthy participants were made sick by intravenously 
administering lipopolysaccharide (2 ng/kg body weight). Their expectations of 
becoming sick were assessed before the injection.
RESULTS: Participants having lower expectations of becoming sick before the 
injection reacted with more emotional distress (i.e., more negative affect and 
lower emotional arousal) than those with high expectations of becoming sick, 
despite having similar overall sickness behavior (i.e., a combined factor 
including fatigue, pain, nausea and social withdrawal). In keeping with a 
predictive coding model, the "prediction error signal", i.e., the discrepancy 
between the immune signal and sickness expectancy, predicted emotional distress 
(reduction in emotional arousal in particular).
CONCLUSION: The current findings suggest that the emotional component of 
sickness behavior is, at least partly, shaped by top-down expectations. Helping 
patients having a realistic expectation of symptoms during treatment of an 
illness may thus reduce aggravated emotional responses, and ultimately improve 
patients' quality of life and treatment compliance. REGISTRATION: 
"Endotoxin-induced Inflammatory and Behavioral Responses and Predictors of 
Individual Differences", https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02529592, 
registration number: NCT02529592.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbi.2018.09.008
PMID: 30217536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Ann Vasc Surg. 2019 Feb;55:307.e13-307.e17. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2018.06.033.
 Epub 2018 Sep 12.

Emergency Endovascular Management of a Symptomatic Pseudoaneurysm of the Left 
Subclavian Artery Ostium Using a Combination of an Abdominal Aortic Stent-Graft 
Extension Cuff and a Periscope Stent Graft.

Valdés DC(1), Karkos CD(2), Moy Petersen JC(3), Fernández JR(4), González RF(4).

Author information:
(1)Angiology and Vascular Surgery Department, Complexo Hospitalario de 
Pontevedra, Pontevedra, Spain. Electronic address: 
diego.caicedo.valdes@sergas.es.
(2)Vascular Surgery Unit, 5th Department of Surgery, Medical School, Aristotle 
University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(3)Angiology and Vascular Surgery Department, Hospital Nuestra Señora de la 
Candelaria, Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Spain.
(4)Angiology and Vascular Surgery Department, Complexo Hospitalario de 
Pontevedra, Pontevedra, Spain.

A pseudoaneurysm located at the subclavian artery ostium is an infrequent but 
life-threatening pathology that usually requires major thoracic surgery with a 
high risk of mortality and morbidity. Endovascular therapy applied to the aortic 
arch branches is a recent alternative technique, which is still in its early 
stages because dedicated endovascular devices for the aortic arch are lacking. 
In this article, we present the emergency endovascular management of a 
symptomatic pseudoaneurysm of the left subclavian artery ostium which was 
presumably secondary to an atherosclerotic plaque rupture. Endovascular 
exclusion required a combination of an abdominal aortic stent-graft extension 
cuff, which was placed via a retroperitoneal iliac access, and a subclavian 
artery periscope stent graft.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2018.06.033
PMID: 30217702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. BMC Cancer. 2018 Sep 15;18(1):895. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-4788-5.

Early cost-effectiveness of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) for second line 
treatment in advanced melanoma: a model-based economic evaluation.

Retèl VP(1)(2), Steuten LMG(3), Geukes Foppen MH(4), Mewes JC(5), Lindenberg 
MA(5)(6), Haanen JBAG(4), van Harten WH(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychosocial Research and Epidemiology, Netherlands Cancer 
Institute-Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital (NKI-AVL), Plesmanlaan 121, 1066, CX, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands. V.retel@nki.nl.
(2)Department of Health Technology and Services Research, University of Twente, 
Postbus 217, 7500, AE, Enschede, the Netherlands. V.retel@nki.nl.
(3)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 1100 Fairview Avenue North, P.O. Box 
19024, Seattle, WA, 98109-1024, USA.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, Netherlands Cancer Institute-Antoni van 
Leeuwenhoek Hospital (NKI-AVL), Plesmanlaan 121, 1066, CX, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(5)Division of Psychosocial Research and Epidemiology, Netherlands Cancer 
Institute-Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital (NKI-AVL), Plesmanlaan 121, 1066, CX, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(6)Department of Health Technology and Services Research, University of Twente, 
Postbus 217, 7500, AE, Enschede, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: An emerging immunotherapy is infusion of tumor infiltrating 
Lymphocytes (TIL), with objective response rates of around 50% versus 19% for 
ipilimumab. As an Advanced Therapeutic Medicinal Products (ATMP), TIL is highly 
personalized and complex therapy. It requests substantial upfront investments 
from the hospital in: expensive lab-equipment, staff expertise and training, as 
well as extremely tight hospital logistics. Therefore, an early health economic 
modelling study, as part of a Coverage with Evidence Development (CED) program, 
was performed.
METHODS: We used a Markov decision model to estimate the expected costs and 
outcomes (quality-adjusted life years; QALYs) for TIL versus ipilimumab for 
second line treatment in metastatic melanoma patients from a Dutch health care 
perspective over a life long time horizon. Three mutually exclusive health 
states (stable disease (responders)), progressive disease and death) were 
modelled. To inform further research prioritization, Value of Information (VOI) 
analysis was performed.
RESULTS: TIL is expected to generate more QALYs compared to ipilimumab (0.45 
versus 0.38 respectively) at lower incremental cost (presently €81,140 versus 
€94,705 respectively) resulting in a dominant ICER (less costly and more 
effective). Based on current information TIL is dominating ipilimumab and has a 
probability of 86% for being cost effective at a cost/QALY threshold of €80,000. 
The Expected Value of Perfect Information (EVPI) amounted to €3 M.
CONCLUSIONS: TIL is expected to have the highest probability of being 
cost-effective in second line treatment for advanced melanoma compared to 
ipilimumab. To reduce decision uncertainty, a clinical trial investigating e.g. 
costs and survival seems most valuable. This is currently being undertaken as 
part of a CED program in the Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands, in collaboration with Denmark.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-018-4788-5
PMCID: PMC6139174
PMID: 30219040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


156. Lancet Glob Health. 2018 Dec;6(12):e1352-e1362. doi: 
10.1016/S2214-109X(18)30387-5. Epub 2018 Sep 12.

The increasing burden of diabetes and variations among the states of India: the 
Global Burden of Disease Study 1990-2016.

India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative Diabetes Collaborators.

Collaborators: Tandon N, Anjana RM, Mohan V, Kaur T, Afshin A, Ong K, 
Mukhopadhyay S, Thomas N, Bhatia E, Krishnan A, Mathur P, Dhaliwal RS, Shukla 
DK, Bhansali A, Prabhakaran D, Rao PV, Yajnik CS, Kumar GA, Varghese CM, Furtado 
M, Agarwal SK, Arora M, Bhardwaj D, Chakma JK, Cornaby L, Dutta E, Glenn S, 
Gopalakrishnan N, Gupta R, Jeemon P, Johnson SC, Khanna T, Kinra S, Kutz M, 
Muraleedharan P, Naik N, Odell CM, Oommen AM, Pandian JD, Parameswaran S, Pati 
S, Prasad N, Raju DS, Roy A, Sharma M, Shekhar C, Shukla SR, Singh NP, Thakur 
JS, Unnikrishnan R, Varughese S, Xavier D, Zachariah G, Lim SS, Naghavi M, 
Dandona R, Vos T, Murray CJL, Reddy KS, Swaminathan S, Dandona L.

Comment in
    Lancet Glob Health. 2018 Dec;6(12):e1262-e1263.
    Lancet Glob Health. 2019 Apr;7(4):e418.

BACKGROUND: The burden of diabetes is increasing rapidly in India but a 
systematic understanding of its distribution and time trends is not available 
for every state of India. We present a comprehensive analysis of the time trends 
and heterogeneity in the distribution of diabetes burden across all states of 
India between 1990 and 2016.
METHODS: We analysed the prevalence and disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) 
of diabetes in the states of India from 1990 to 2016 using all available data 
sources that could be accessed as part of the Global Burden of Diseases, 
Injuries, and Risk Factors Study 2016, and assessed heterogeneity across the 
states. The states were placed in four groups based on epidemiological 
transition level (ETL), defined on the basis of the ratio of DALYs from 
communicable diseases to those from non-communicable diseases and injuries 
combined, with a low ratio denoting high ETL and vice versa. We assessed the 
contribution of risk factors to diabetes DALYs and the relation of overweight 
(body-mass index 25 kg/m2 or more) with diabetes prevalence. We calculated 95% 
uncertainty intervals (UIs) for the point estimates.
FINDINGS: The number of people with diabetes in India increased from 26·0 
million (95% UI 23·4-28·6) in 1990 to 65·0 million (58·7-71·1) in 2016. The 
prevalence of diabetes in adults aged 20 years or older in India increased from 
5·5% (4·9-6·1) in 1990 to 7·7% (6·9-8·4) in 2016. The prevalence in 2016 was 
highest in Tamil Nadu and Kerala (high ETL) and Delhi (higher-middle ETL), 
followed by Punjab and Goa (high ETL) and Karnataka (higher-middle ETL). The 
age-standardised DALY rate for diabetes increased in India by 39·6% (32·1-46·7) 
from 1990 to 2016, which was the highest increase among major non-communicable 
diseases. The age-standardised diabetes prevalence and DALYs increased in every 
state, with the percentage increase among the highest in several states in the 
low and lower-middle ETL state groups. The most important risk factor for 
diabetes in India was overweight to which 36·0% (22·6-49·2) of the diabetes 
DALYs in 2016 could be attributed. The prevalence of overweight in adults in 
India increased from 9·0% (8·7-9·3) in 1990 to 20·4% (19·9-20·8) in 2016; this 
prevalence increased in every state of the country. For every 100 overweight 
adults aged 20 years or older in India, there were 38 adults (34-42) with 
diabetes, compared with the global average of 19 adults (17-21) in 2016.
INTERPRETATION: The increase in health loss from diabetes since 1990 in India is 
the highest among major non-communicable diseases. With this increase observed 
in every state of the country, and the relative rate of increase highest in 
several less developed low ETL states, policy action that takes these 
state-level differences into account is needed urgently to control this 
potentially explosive public health situation.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation; and Indian Council of Medical 
Research, Department of Health Research, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, 
Government of India.

Copyright © 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2214-109X(18)30387-5
PMCID: PMC6227383
PMID: 30219315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Lancet Glob Health. 2018 Dec;6(12):e1363-e1374. doi: 
10.1016/S2214-109X(18)30409-1. Epub 2018 Sep 12.

The burden of chronic respiratory diseases and their heterogeneity across the 
states of India: the Global Burden of Disease Study 1990-2016.

India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative CRD Collaborators.

Collaborators: Salvi S, Kumar GA, Dhaliwal RS, Paulson K, Agrawal A, Koul PA, 
Mahesh PA, Nair S, Singh V, Aggarwal AN, Christopher DJ, Guleria R, Mohan BVM, 
Tripathi SK, Ghoshal AG, Kumar RV, Mehrotra R, Shukla DK, Dutta E, Furtado M, 
Bhardwaj D, Smith M, Abdulkader RS, Arora M, Balakrishnan K, Chakma JK, 
Chaturvedi P, Dey S, Ghorpade D, Glenn S, Gupta PC, Gupta T, Johnson SC, Joshi 
TK, Kutz M, Mathur MR, Mathur P, Muraleedharan P, Odell CM, Pati S, Sabde Y, 
Sinha DN, Thankappan KR, Varghese CM, Yadav G, Lim SS, Naghavi M, Dandona R, 
Reddy KS, Vos T, Murray CJL, Swaminathan S, Dandona L.

Comment in
    Lancet Glob Health. 2018 Dec;6(12):e1262-e1263.

BACKGROUND: India has 18% of the global population and an increasing burden of 
chronic respiratory diseases. However, a systematic understanding of the 
distribution of chronic respiratory diseases and their trends over time is not 
readily available for all of the states of India. Our aim was to report the 
trends in the burden of chronic respiratory diseases and the heterogeneity in 
their distribution in all states of India between 1990 and 2016.
METHODS: Using all accessible data from multiple sources, we estimated the 
prevalence of major chronic respiratory diseases and the deaths and 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) caused by them for every state of India 
from 1990 to 2016 as part of the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk 
Factors Study (GBD) 2016. We assessed heterogeneity in the burden of chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and asthma across the states of India. The 
states were categorised into four groups based on their epidemiological 
transition level (ETL). ETL was defined as the ratio of DALYs from communicable 
diseases to those from non-communicable diseases and injuries combined, with a 
low ratio denoting high ETL and vice versa. We also assessed the contribution of 
risk factors to DALYs due to COPD. We compared the burden of chronic respiratory 
diseases in India against the global average in GBD 2016. We calculated 95% 
uncertainty intervals (UIs) for the point estimates.
FINDINGS: The contribution of chronic respiratory diseases to the total DALYs in 
India increased from 4·5% (95% UI 4·0-4·9) in 1990 to 6·4% (5·8-7·0) in 2016. Of 
the total global DALYs due to chronic respiratory diseases in 2016, 32·0% 
occurred in India. COPD and asthma were responsible for 75·6% and 20·0% of the 
chronic respiratory disease DALYs, respectively, in India in 2016. The number of 
cases of COPD in India increased from 28·1 million (27·0-29·2) in 1990 to 55·3 
million (53·1-57·6) in 2016, an increase in prevalence from 3·3% (3·1-3·4) to 
4·2% (4·0-4·4). The age-standardised COPD prevalence and DALY rates in 2016 were 
highest in the less developed low ETL state group. There were 37·9 million 
(35·7-40·2) cases of asthma in India in 2016, with similar prevalence in the 
four ETL state groups, but the highest DALY rate was in the low ETL state group. 
The highest DALY rates for both COPD and asthma in 2016 were in the low ETL 
states of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. The DALYs per case of COPD and asthma 
were 1·7 and 2·4 times higher in India than the global average in 2016, 
respectively; most states had higher rates compared with other locations 
worldwide at similar levels of Socio-demographic Index. Of the DALYs due to COPD 
in India in 2016, 53·7% (43·1-65·0) were attributable to air pollution, 25·4% 
(19·5-31·7) to tobacco use, and 16·5% (14·1-19·2) to occupational risks, making 
these the leading risk factors for COPD.
INTERPRETATION: India has a disproportionately high burden of chronic 
respiratory diseases. The increasing contribution of these diseases to the 
overall disease burden across India and the high rate of health loss from them, 
especially in the less developed low ETL states, highlights the need for focused 
policy interventions to address this significant cause of disease burden in 
India.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation; and Indian Council of Medical 
Research, Department of Health Research, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, 
Government of India.

Copyright © 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2214-109X(18)30409-1
PMCID: PMC6227385
PMID: 30219316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Lancet Glob Health. 2018 Dec;6(12):e1339-e1351. doi: 
10.1016/S2214-109X(18)30407-8. Epub 2018 Sep 12.

The changing patterns of cardiovascular diseases and their risk factors in the 
states of India: the Global Burden of Disease Study 1990-2016.

India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative CVD Collaborators.

Collaborators: Prabhakaran D, Jeemon P, Sharma M, Roth GA, Johnson C, 
Harikrishnan S, Gupta R, Pandian JD, Naik N, Roy A, Dhaliwal RS, Xavier D, Kumar 
RK, Tandon N, Mathur P, Shukla DK, Mehrotra R, Venugopal K, Kumar GA, Varghese 
CM, Furtado M, Muraleedharan P, Abdulkader RS, Alam T, Anjana RM, Arora M, 
Bhansali A, Bhardwaj D, Bhatia E, Chakma JK, Chaturvedi P, Dutta E, Glenn S, 
Gupta PC, Johnson SC, Kaur T, Kinra S, Krishnan A, Kutz M, Mathur MR, Mohan V, 
Mukhopadhyay S, Nguyen M, Odell CM, Oommen AM, Pati S, Pletcher M, Prasad K, Rao 
PV, Shekhar C, Sinha DN, Sylaja PN, Thakur JS, Thankappan KR, Thomas N, Yadgir 
S, Yajnik CS, Zachariah G, Zipkin B, Lim SS, Naghavi M, Dandona R, Vos T, Murray 
CJL, Reddy KS, Swaminathan S, Dandona L.

Comment in
    Lancet Glob Health. 2018 Dec;6(12):e1262-e1263.

BACKGROUND: The burden of cardiovascular diseases is increasing in India, but a 
systematic understanding of its distribution and time trends across all the 
states is not readily available. In this report, we present a detailed analysis 
of how the patterns of cardiovascular diseases and major risk factors have 
changed across the states of India between 1990 and 2016.
METHODS: We analysed the prevalence and disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) 
due to cardiovascular diseases and the major component causes in the states of 
India from 1990 to 2016, using all accessible data sources as part of the Global 
Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study 2016. We placed states into 
four groups based on epidemiological transition level (ETL), defined using the 
ratio of DALYs from communicable diseases to those from non-communicable 
diseases and injuries combined, with a low ratio denoting high ETL and vice 
versa. We assessed heterogeneity in the burden of major cardiovascular diseases 
across the states of India, and the contribution of risk factors to 
cardiovascular diseases. We calculated 95% uncertainty intervals (UIs) for the 
point estimates.
FINDINGS: Overall, cardiovascular diseases contributed 28·1% (95% UI 26·5-29·1) 
of the total deaths and 14·1% (12·9-15·3) of the total DALYs in India in 2016, 
compared with 15·2% (13·7-16·2) and 6·9% (6·3-7·4), respectively, in 1990. In 
2016, there was a nine times difference between states in the DALY rate for 
ischaemic heart disease, a six times difference for stroke, and a four times 
difference for rheumatic heart disease. 23·8 million (95% UI 22·6-25·0) 
prevalent cases of ischaemic heart disease were estimated in India in 2016, and 
6·5 million (6·3-6·8) prevalent cases of stroke, a 2·3 times increase in both 
disorders from 1990. The age-standardised prevalence of both ischaemic heart 
disease and stroke increased in all ETL state groups between 1990 and 2016, 
whereas that of rheumatic heart disease decreased; the increase for ischaemic 
heart disease was highest in the low ETL state group. 53·4% (95% UI 52·6-54·6) 
of crude deaths due to cardiovascular diseases in India in 2016 were among 
people younger than 70 years, with a higher proportion in the low ETL state 
group. The leading overlapping risk factors for cardiovascular diseases in 2016 
included dietary risks (56·4% [95% CI 48·5-63·9] of cardiovascular disease 
DALYs), high systolic blood pressure (54·6% [49·0-59·8]), air pollution (31·1% 
[29·0-33·4]), high total cholesterol (29·4% [24·3-34·8]), tobacco use (18·9% 
[16·6-21·3]), high fasting plasma glucose (16·7% [11·4-23·5]), and high 
body-mass index (14·7% [8·3-22·0]). The prevalence of high systolic blood 
pressure, high total cholesterol, and high fasting plasma glucose increased 
generally across all ETL state groups from 1990 to 2016, but this increase was 
variable across the states; the prevalence of smoking decreased during this 
period in all ETL state groups.
INTERPRETATION: The burden from the leading cardiovascular diseases in 
India-ischaemic heart disease and stroke-varies widely between the states. Their 
increasing prevalence and that of several major risk factors in every part of 
India, especially the highest increase in the prevalence of ischaemic heart 
disease in the less developed low ETL states, indicates the need for urgent 
policy and health system response appropriate for the situation in each state.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation; and Indian Council of Medical 
Research, Department of Health Research, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, 
Government of India.

Copyright © 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

