25.

Patient-reported health-related quality of life outcomes in supportive-care 
interventions for adults with brain tumors: A systematic review.

Pan-Weisz TM(1)(2), Kryza-Lacombe M(1), Burkeen J(2)(3), Hattangadi-Gluth 
J(2)(3), Malcarne VL(1)(2)(4), McDonald CR(1)(2)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)San Diego State University/University of California, San Diego Joint Doctoral 
Program in Clinical Psychology, San Diego, California.
(2)University of California, San Diego Moores Cancer Center, San Diego, 
California.
(3)Department of Radiation Medicine and Applied Sciences, University of 
California, San Diego, San Diego, California.
(4)Department of Psychology, San Diego State University, San Diego, California.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, San Diego, 
California.

OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this systematic review were to (a) identify 
supportive-care (psychosocial/behavioral, pharmacological, complementary, or 
alternative) interventions that have been evaluated via randomized controlled 
trials (RCTs) to improve patient-reported health-related quality of life (HRQoL) 
among adults with brain tumors, (b) evaluate the quality of the intervention 
studies, and (c) evaluate if developed interventions have been efficacious at 
improving HRQoL, as compared with control conditions in RCTs.
METHODS: This systematic review was conducted using preferred reporting items 
for systematic reviews and meta-analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. Four databases 
were searched for RCTs of supportive-care interventions for adults with brain 
tumors, primary or metastatic, that included a patient-reported HRQoL outcome. 
Quality of the included studies was assessed using the Effective Public Health 
Practice Project Quality Assessment Tool for Quantitative Studies.
RESULTS: Ten RCTs involving 640 patients with either a primary or metastatic 
brain tumor investigating supportive-care interventions with a HRQoL outcome 
were identified. In terms of quality, three of the studies received a "strong" 
rating, three received a "moderate" rating, and four of the studies received a 
"weak" rating. Only two of the interventions (ie, a home-based psychosocial 
intervention and individualized acupuncture with standard rehabilitation) 
demonstrated improvements in HRQoL over control conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: HRQoL is of the utmost importance when treating patients with brain 
tumors. Yet there is a notable paucity of research to inform clinical decisions 
and evidence-based practice. More high-quality studies of interventions aimed at 
improving HRQoL are needed.

© 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pon.4906
PMID: 30280453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Hosp Health Netw. 2017 Mar;91(3):13.

BABA BOOMERS The future of age-friendly care.

O'Connor M.

PMID: 30280813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Rejuvenation Res. 2018 Oct;21(5):387-388. doi: 10.1089/rej.2018.2139.

Anti-Aging Passion and Pragmatism: Effective Bedfellows at Last.

de Grey ADNJ(1).

Author information:
(1)SENS Research Foundation , Mountain View, California.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2018.2139
PMID: 30280961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Br J Nurs. 2018 Oct 4;27(18):1059-1065. doi: 10.12968/bjon.2018.27.18.1059.

Immunosuppression following organ transplantation. Part 2: complications and 
their management.

Cajanding R(1).

Author information:
(1)Staff Nurse, Liver Intensive Therapy Unit, Institute of Liver Studies, King's 
College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, London.

Advances in the care of patients who have had a solid organ transplant has led 
to a growing population of post-transplant patients, who are also living for 
longer. As a result of their longer life expectancy, transplant recipients often 
face a multitude of challenges, including optimising their immunosuppressive 
regimens and managing potential complications. Life-threatening infections, 
malignancies, and organ-specific toxicities are the complications 
post-transplant patients commonly encounter and these complications are often 
associated with increased morbidity and mortality, adverse graft functioning and 
survival, profound impairment in the patient's quality of life, and significant 
healthcare burden. This article, the second of two parts, gives an overview of 
the issues involved in the care of patients who are receiving 
immunosuppressants. The common complications encountered by post-transplant 
patients are discussed and their assessment, management, prevention and 
treatment explored.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.2018.27.18.1059
PMID: 30281349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. PLoS One. 2018 Oct 3;13(10):e0204395. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0204395. 
eCollection 2018.

Decomposition of Ethiopian life expectancy by age and cause of mortality; 
1990-2015.

Jembere GB(1), Cho Y(1), Jung M(2).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Public Health, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Faculty of Epidemiology and Population Health, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom.

Ethiopia's average life expectancy has improved by more than 18 years from 1990 
to 2015. This initiated interest to study the gain in life expectancy with 
respect to age structure and cause of death. Applying a life expectancy 
decomposition technique on secondary data obtained from the Institute of Health 
Metrics and Evaluation, the study found that the burden of disease in Ethiopia 
has declined from 626.18 in 1990 to 225.69 in 2015 per 1000 population measured 
in age-standardized rate of life years lost. The major causes of burden in 1990; 
namely lower respiratory tract infections, neonatal disorders, diarrheal 
diseases and neglected tropical diseases at rates of 89.2, 63.2, 61.2, and 42.2 
age-standardized years of life lost per 1000 population respectively; have shown 
a fast decline in 2015. Deaths from neglected tropical disease showed 94.95% 
reduction, contributing to 5.71(27.30%) years gain in life expectancy followed 
by lower respiratory tract infection and diarrheal disease contributing about 
4.65 years (22.23%) and 1.48 years (7.10%) respectively. On the other hand, 
about 3.3 (15.73%) years and 6.4 (30.71%) years of increase in life expectancy 
are achieved through improved longevity in infants and children aged 1-4 years 
respectively. In conclusion, the study found that reductions in under-five child 
mortality and decline in burden of major communicable diseases could explain the 
major gain in life expectancy. However, findings also revealed that the 
prevalence of non-communicable diseases and injuries are on the rise calling for 
the need to be addressed by the public health system.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0204395
PMCID: PMC6169910
PMID: 30281624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


371. Am J Hematol. 2019 Jan;94(1):133-143. doi: 10.1002/ajh.25303. Epub 2018 Nov
9.

Polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia: 2019 update on diagnosis, 
risk-stratification and management.

Tefferi A(1), Barbui T(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota.
(2)Research Foundation, Papa Giovanni XXIII Hospital, Bergamo, Italy.

Disease Overview: Polycythemia vera (PV) and essential thrombocythemia (ET) are 
myeloproliferative neoplasms respectively characterized by erythrocytosis and 
thrombocytosis; other disease features include leukocytosis, splenomegaly, 
thrombosis, bleeding, microcirculatory symptoms, pruritus, and risk of leukemic 
or fibrotic transformation. Diagnosis: Bone marrow morphology remains the 
cornerstone of diagnosis. In addition, the presence of JAK2 mutation is expected 
in PV while approximately 90% of patients with ET express mutually exclusive 
JAK2, CALR, or myeloproliferative leukemia mutations. In ET, it is most 
important to exclude the possibility of prefibrotic myelofibrosis. Survival: 
Median survivals are 14 years for PV and 20 years for ET; the corresponding 
values for younger patients are 24 and 33 years. Certain mutations (mostly 
spliceosome) and abnormal karyotype might compromise survival in PV and ET. 
Life-expectancy in ET is inferior to the control population. Driver mutations 
have not been shown to affect survival in ET. Risk of thrombosis is higher in 
JAK2-mutated ET. Leukemic transformation rates at 10 years are estimated at <1% 
for ET and 3% for PV. Thrombosis Risk: In PV, 2 risk categories are considered: 
high (age > 60 years or thrombosis history present) and low (absence of both 
risk factors); in ET, 4 risk categories are considered: very low (age ≤ 60 
years, no thrombosis history, JAK2 wild-type), low (same as very low but JAK2 
mutation present), intermediate (age > 60 years, no thrombosis history, JAK2 
wild-type) and high (thrombosis history present or age > 60 years with JAK2 
mutation). Risk-Adapted Therapy: The main goal of therapy in both PV and ET is 
to prevent thrombohemorrhagic complications. All patients with PV require 
phlebotomy to keep hematocrit below 45% and once- or twice-daily aspirin (81 
mg), in the absence of contraindications. Very low-risk ET might not require 
therapy while aspirin therapy is advised for low-risk disease. Cytoreductive 
therapy is recommended for high-risk ET and PV but it is not mandatory for 
intermediate-risk ET. First-line drug of choice for cytoreductive therapy, in 
both ET and PV, is hydroxyurea and second-line drugs of choice are interferon-α 
and busulfan. We do not recommend treatment with ruxolutinib in PV, unless in 
the presence of severe and protracted pruritus or marked splenomegaly that is 
not responding to the aforementioned drugs.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.25303
PMID: 30281843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. J S C Med Assoc. 2016 Jun;112(2):197-199.

Long Term Strenuous Exercise: Is There a Dose Effect?

Emery MS.

PMID: 30281961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Arch Plast Surg. 2018 Sep;45(5):479-483. doi: 10.5999/aps.2017.01802. Epub
2018  Sep 15.

Simultaneous reconstruction of the forearm extensor compartment tendon, soft 
tissue, and skin.

Oh J(1), Ahn HC(1), Lee KH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Hanyang University College 
of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Hanyang University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.

Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor (MPNST) is a very rare type of sarcoma, 
with an incidence of 0.001%. MPNST has a 5-year survival rate near 80%, so 
successful reconstruction techniques are important to ensure the patient's 
quality of life. Sarcoma of the forearm is known for its poor prognosis, which 
leads to wider excision, making reconstruction even more challenging due to the 
unique anatomical structure and delicate function of the forearm. A 44-year-old 
male presented with a large mass that had two aspects, measuring 9×6 cm and 7×5 
cm, on the dorsal aspect of the right forearm. The extensor compartment muscles 
(EDM, EDC, EIP, EPB, EPL, ECRB, ECRL, APL) and invaded radius were resected with 
the mass. Tendon transfer of the entire extensor compartment with skin defect 
coverage using a 24×8 cm anterolateral thigh (ALT) perforator free flap was 
performed. The patient was discharged after 18 days without wound complications, 
and has not complained of discomfort during supination, pronation, or wrist 
extension/flexion through 3 years of follow-up. To our knowledge, this is the 
first report of successful reconstruction of the entire forearm extensor 
compartment with ALT free flap coverage after resection of MPNST.

DOI: 10.5999/aps.2017.01802
PMCID: PMC6177635
PMID: 30282421

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


374. Cancer Res Treat. 2019 Jul;51(3):933-940. doi: 10.4143/crt.2018.301. Epub
2018  Oct 4.

The Health Burden of Cancer Attributable to Obesity in Korea: A Population-Based 
Cohort Study.

Lee JE(1), Nam CM(2), Lee SG(3)(4), Park S(3)(5), Kim TH(3)(4), Park EC(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Public Health, Ajou University School 
of Medicine, Suwon, Korea.
(2)Department of Preventive Medicine, Yonsei University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.
(3)Institute of Health Services Research, Yonsei University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Hospital Administration, Graduate School of Public Health, 
Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea.
(5)Department of Biostatistics, Graduate School of Public Health, Yonsei 
University, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: Considering the health impact of obesity and cancer, it is important to 
estimate the burden of cancer attributable to high body mass index (BMI). 
Therefore, the present study attempts to measure the health burden of cancer 
attributable to excess BMI, according to cancer sites.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The present study used nationwide medical check-up sample 
cohort data (2002-2015). The study subjects were 496,390 individuals (268,944 
men and 227,446 women). We first calculated hazard ratio (HR) in order to 
evaluate the effect of excess BMI on cancer incidence and mortality. Then, the 
adjusted HR values and the prevalence of excess BMI were used to calculate the 
population attributable risk. This study also used the Global Burden of Disease 
method, to examine the health burden of obesity-related cancers attributable to 
obesity.
RESULTS: The highest disability-adjusted life year (DALY) values attributable to 
overweight and obesity in men were shown in liver cancer, colorectal cancer, and 
gallbladder cancer. Among women, colorectal, ovarian, and breast 
(postmenopausal) cancers had the highest DALYs values attributable to overweight 
and obesity. Approximately 8.0% and 12.5% of cancer health burden (as measured 
by DALY values) among obesity-related cancers in men and women, respectively, 
can be prevented.
CONCLUSIONS: Obesity has added to the health burden of cancer. By measuring the 
proportion of cancer burden attributable to excess BMI, the current findings 
provide support for the importance of properly allocating healthcare resources 
and for developing cancer prevention strategies to reduce the future burden of 
cancer.

DOI: 10.4143/crt.2018.301
PMCID: PMC6639210
PMID: 30282445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest relevant to this article 
was not reported.


375. Int J Obes (Lond). 2019 Apr;43(4):782-789. doi: 10.1038/s41366-018-0210-2.
Epub  2018 Oct 3.

Impact of overweight, obesity and severe obesity on life expectancy of 
Australian adults.

Lung T(1)(2), Jan S(3)(4), Tan EJ(4), Killedar A(4), Hayes A(4).

Author information:
(1)The George Institute for Global Health, University of New South Wales, 
Kensington, NSW, 2042, Australia. tlung@georgeinstitute.org.au.
(2)The University of Sydney, Faculty of Medicine and Health, School of Public 
Health, Sydney, NSW, 2006, Australia. tlung@georgeinstitute.org.au.
(3)The George Institute for Global Health, University of New South Wales, 
Kensington, NSW, 2042, Australia.
(4)The University of Sydney, Faculty of Medicine and Health, School of Public 
Health, Sydney, NSW, 2006, Australia.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Adult obesity has been shown to substantially heighten 
the risk of adverse health outcomes but its impact on life expectancy (LE) has 
not been quantified in Australia. Our aim is to estimate reductions in LE and 
years of life lost (YLL) associated with overweight and obesity, relative to 
those at a healthy weight for Australian adults aged 20-69 years.
SUBJECTS/METHODS: We used a microsimulation model of obesity progression in 
Australia that integrates annual change in BMI based on age and sex, with 
Australian life-table data and published relative risk of all-cause mortality 
for different BMI categories. Remaining LE and YLL compared to healthy weight 
were estimated using 10-year cohorts, by sex. A nationally representative sample 
of 12,091 adults aged 20-69 from the 2014/15 Australian National Health Survey 
were used to represent the input population of 14.9 million.
RESULTS: Estimated remaining years of LE for healthy weight men and women aged 
20-29 years was approximately 57.0 (95% CI 56.7-57.4) and 59.7 (95% CI 
59.4-60.0) years, respectively. YLL associated with being overweight at baseline 
was approximately 3.3 years. For those obese and severely obese the loss in LE 
was predicted to be 5.6-7.6 years and 8.1-10.3 years for men and women aged 
20-29 years, respectively. Across men and women, excess BMI in the adult 
population is responsible for approximately 36.3 million YLLs. Men stand to lose 
27.7% more life years compared to women.
CONCLUSIONS: Overweight and obesity is associated with premature mortality at 
all ages, for both men and women. Adults aged 20-39 years with severe obesity 
will experience the largest YLL, relative to healthy weight. More needs to be 
done in Australia to establish a coherent, sustained, cost-effective strategy to 
prevent overweight and obesity, particularly for men in early adulthood.

DOI: 10.1038/s41366-018-0210-2
PMID: 30283076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Front Microbiol. 2018 Sep 19;9:2213. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2018.02213.
eCollection  2018.

Microbial Inoculants for Improving Crop Quality and Human Health in Africa.

Alori ET(1), Babalola OO(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Crop and Soil Science, Landmark University, Omu-Aran, Nigeria.
(2)Food Security and Safety Niche Area, Faculty of Natural and Agricultural 
Sciences, North-West University, Mahikeng, South Africa.

Current agricultural practices depend heavily on chemical inputs (such as 
fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides, etc.) which, all things being equal cause a 
deleterious effect on the nutritional value of farm product and health of farm 
workers and consumers. Excessive and indiscriminate use of these chemicals have 
resulted in food contamination, weed and disease resistance and negative 
environmental outcomes which together have a significant impact on human health. 
Application of these chemical inputs promotes the accumulation of toxic 
compounds in soils. Chemical compounds are absorbed by most crops from soil. 
Several synthetic fertilizers contain acid radicals, such as hydrochloride and 
sulfuric radicals, and hence increase the soil acidity and adversely affect soil 
and plant health. Highly recalcitrant compounds can also be absorbed by some 
plants. Continuous consumption of such crops can lead to systematic disorders in 
humans. Quite a number of pesticides and herbicides have carcinogenicity 
potential. The increasing awareness of health challenges as a result of 
consumption of poor quality crops has led to a quest for new and improved 
technologies of improving both the quantity and quality of crop without 
jeopardizing human health. A reliable alternative to the use of chemical inputs 
is microbial inoculants that can act as biofertilizers, bioherbicide, 
biopesticides, and biocontrol agents. Microorganisms are able to carry out the 
plant growth promotion, pest and disease and weed control. Microbial inoculants 
are beneficiary microorganisms applied to either the soil or the plant in order 
to improve productivity and crop health. Microbial inoculants are natural-based 
products being widely used to control pests and improve the quality of the soil 
and crop, and hence human health. Microbial inoculants involve a blend of 
microorganisms that work with the soil and the soil life to improve soil 
fertility and health and by extension improve human health. Microbial inoculants 
have the ability to minimize the negative impact of chemical input and 
consequently increase the quantity and quality of farm produce. Microbial 
inoculants are environmental-friendly and deliver plant nutrients to plants in a 
more sustainable manner. Microbial inoculants can help reduce chemical 
fertilizer application. Microbial inoculants could include bacteria, fungi and 
algae. This research summarizes the impact of agricultural chemical inputs on 
human health. The contribution of microbial inoculants in sustainable 
maintenance of human health will be expatiated. Advances in microbial inoculants 
and technology and strategies to explore this natural, user friendly biological 
resource for sustainable maintenance of plant health will be discussed.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2018.02213
PMCID: PMC6156547
PMID: 30283427


377. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2019 Jan;76(1):89-98. doi: 10.1007/s00018-018-2927-4.
Epub  2018 Oct 3.

Dynamics and mechanisms of posterior axis elongation in the vertebrate embryo.

Bénazéraf B(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre de Biologie du Développement (CBD), Centre de Biologie Intégrative 
(CBI), Université de Toulouse, CNRS, UPS, Toulouse, France. 
bertrand.benazeraf@univ-tlse3.fr.

During development, the vertebrate embryo undergoes significant morphological 
changes which lead to its future body form and functioning organs. One of these 
noticeable changes is the extension of the body shape along the antero-posterior 
(A-P) axis. This A-P extension, while taking place in multiple embryonic tissues 
of the vertebrate body, involves the same basic cellular behaviors: cell 
proliferation, cell migration (of new progenitors from a posterior stem zone), 
and cell rearrangements. However, the nature and the relative contribution of 
these different cellular behaviors to A-P extension appear to vary depending 
upon the tissue in which they take place and on the stage of embryonic 
development. By focusing on what is known in the neural and mesodermal tissues 
of the bird embryo, I review the influences of cellular behaviors in posterior 
tissue extension. In this context, I discuss how changes in distinct cell 
behaviors can be coordinated at the tissue level (and between tissues) to 
synergize, build, and elongate the posterior part of the embryonic body. This 
multi-tissue framework does not only concern axis elongation, as it could also 
be generalized to morphogenesis of any developing organs.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-018-2927-4
PMID: 30283977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Ann Surg Oncol. 2019 Apr;26(4):1028-1034. doi: 10.1245/s10434-018-6812-z.
Epub  2018 Oct 3.

The Role of Completion Lymph Node Dissection for Sentinel Lymph Node-Positive 
Melanoma.

Hieken TJ(1), Kane JM 3rd(2), Wong SL(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. hieken.tina@mayo.edu.
(2)Department of Surgical Oncology, Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
Buffalo, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Surgery, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover, NH, 
USA.

PURPOSE AND METHODS: Completion lymph node dissection (CLND) for sentinel lymph 
node (SLN)-positive melanoma patients has been guideline-concordant standard of 
care since adoption of lymphatic mapping and SLN biopsy for the management of 
clinically node-negative melanoma patients more than 20 years ago. However, a 
trend for omission of CLND has been observed over the past decade, and we now 
have randomized, controlled clinical trial data to help guide treatment 
recommendations. Publication of these data prompted an American Society of 
Clinical Oncology-Society of Surgical Oncology 2018 clinical practice guideline 
update for these patients.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Systematic review of current evidence supports a 
selective, individualized approach to CLND for SLN-positive melanoma. For 
low-risk, low-volume micrometastatic disease, SLN biopsy may be both diagnostic 
and therapeutic, and close clinical follow-up with imaging or CLND are 
reasonable options for appropriately selected patients. For higher-risk 
patients, omission of CLND requires careful consideration of risks versus 
benefits, relevant histopathology, and individualized patient discussion. This 
should address patient comorbidities and life expectancy, the predicted 
likelihood of additional positive nodes, availability of imaging surveillance, 
likelihood of adherence to imaging and clinical follow-up, consequences of 
regional recurrence, and the prognostic value of complete nodal staging and its 
impact on adjuvant therapy recommendations or clinical trial participation. Data 
on long-term outcomes, cost, and patient-reported quality of life measures are 
not yet available.

DOI: 10.1245/s10434-018-6812-z
PMID: 30284132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. JAMA. 2018 Oct 2;320(13):1338-1348. doi: 10.1001/jama.2018.13467.

Association of Clinical and Social Factors With Excess Hypertension Risk in 
Black Compared With White US Adults.

Howard G(1), Cushman M(2), Moy CS(3), Oparil S(4), Muntner P(5), Lackland DT(6), 
Manly JJ(7), Flaherty ML(8), Judd SE(1), Wadley VG(4), Long DL(1), Howard VJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University of Alabama, 
Birmingham.
(2)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Vermont, 
Burlington.
(3)National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes 
of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
(4)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Alabama, 
Birmingham.
(5)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Alabama, 
Birmingham.
(6)Department of Neurology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston.
(7)Cognitive Neuroscience Division, Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's 
Disease and the Aging Brain, Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
(8)Department of Neurology, University of Cincinnati Academic Health Center, 
Cincinnati, Ohio.

Comment in
    doi: 10.1001/jamacardio.2016.5678.
    doi: 10.1001/2013.jamainternmed.857.

IMPORTANCE: The high prevalence of hypertension among the US black population is 
a major contributor to disparities in life expectancy; however, the causes for 
higher incidence of hypertension among black adults are unknown.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate potential factors associated with higher risk of incident 
hypertension among black adults.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Prospective cohort study of black and white 
adults selected from a longitudinal cohort study of 30 239 participants as not 
having hypertension at baseline (2003-2007) and participating in a follow-up 
visit 9.4 years (median) later.
EXPOSURES: There were 12 clinical and social factors, including score for the 
Southern diet (range, -4.5 to 8.2; higher values reflect higher level of 
adherence to the dietary pattern), including higher fried and related food 
intake.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Incident hypertension (systolic blood pressure ≥140 
mm Hg, diastolic blood pressure ≥90 mm Hg, or use of antihypertensive 
medications) at the follow-up visit.
RESULTS: Of 6897 participants (mean [SD] age, 62 [8] years; 26% were black 
adults; and 55% were women), 46% of black participants and 33% of white 
participants developed hypertension. Black men had an adjusted mean Southern 
diet score of 0.81 (95% CI, 0.72 to 0.90); white men, -0.26 (95% CI, -0.31 to 
-0.21); black women, 0.27 (95% CI, 0.20 to 0.33); and white women, -0.57 (95% 
CI, -0.61 to -0.54). The Southern diet score was significantly associated with 
incident hypertension for men (odds ratio [OR], 1.16 per 1 SD [95% CI, 1.06 to 
1.27]; incidence of 32.4% at the 25th percentile and 36.1% at the 75th 
percentile; difference, 3.7% [95% CI, 1.4% to 6.2%]) and women (OR, 1.17 per 1 
SD [95% CI, 1.08 to 1.28]; incidence of 31.0% at the 25th percentile and 34.8% 
at the 75th percentile; difference, 3.8% [95% CI, 1.5% to 5.8%]). The Southern 
dietary pattern was the largest mediating factor for differences in the 
incidence of hypertension, accounting for 51.6% (95% CI, 18.8% to 84.4%) of the 
excess risk among black men and 29.2% (95% CI, 13.4% to 44.9%) of the excess 
risk among black women. Among black men, a higher dietary ratio of sodium to 
potassium and an education level of high school graduate or less each mediated 
12.3% of the excess risk of incident hypertension. Among black women, higher 
body mass index mediated 18.3% of the excess risk; a larger waist, 15.2%; less 
adherence to the Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension diet, 11.2%; income 
level of $35 000 or less, 9.3%; higher dietary ratio of sodium to potassium, 
6.8%; and an education level of high school graduate or less, 4.1%.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In a mediation analysis comparing incident 
hypertension among black adults vs white adults in the United States, key 
factors statistically mediating the racial difference for both men and women 
included Southern diet score, dietary ratio of sodium to potassium, and 
education level. Among women, waist circumference and body mass index also were 
key factors.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2018.13467
PMCID: PMC6233849
PMID: 30285178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: The authors 
have completed and submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure of Potential 
Conflicts of Interest. Dr Oparil reported receiving grant support from Actelion, 
Novartis, and Bayer Healthcare Pharmaceuticals; receiving personal fees from 
Boehringer-Ingelheim, Lilly, George Clinical Pty Ltd/Actelion Clinical Research 
Inc, Lundbeck, Novo Nordisk, ROX Medical, and 98point6; and serving as editor in 
chief for Current Hypertension Reports. Dr Muntner reported receiving grant 
support from the National Institutes of Health and the American Heart 
Association; and receiving grant support and personal fees from Amgen. Dr Manly 
reported receiving grant support from the National Institutes of Health and the 
National Institute on Aging. No other disclosures were reported.


380. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2019;15(2):309-316. doi:
10.1080/21645515.2018.1532257.  Epub 2018 Oct 25.

The impact of Measles-Rubella vaccination on the morbidity and mortality from 
Congenital Rubella Syndrome in 92 countries.

Vynnycky E(1)(2)(3), Papadopoulos T(1)(3), Angelis K(3).

Author information:
(1)a Modelling and Economics Unit , Public Health England , London , UK.
(2)b Centre for Mathematical Modelling of Infectious Diseases, Faculty of 
Epidemiology and Population Health , London School of Hygiene & Tropical 
Medicine , London , UK.
(3)c TB Modelling Group and TB Centre , London School of Hygiene & Tropical 
Medicine , London , UK.

Since 2011, GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, has funded eligible countries to 
introduce rubella-containing vaccination (RCV) into their national schedule. Two 
key indicators used to monitor the impact - the future deaths and DALYs 
(Disability Adjusted Life Years) averted through vaccination conducted in 
specific periods - are poorly understood for rubella and Congenital Rubella 
Syndrome (CRS). We calculate these indicators using an age-structured dynamic 
transmission model for rubella, with historical vaccination coverage projections 
during 2001-30 in 92 low and middle-income countries considered most likely to 
require global support to achieve the Global Vaccine Action Plan's objectives. 
131,000 CRS deaths and 12.5 million DALYs may be prevented with immunization 
campaigns at best-estimate coverage during 2001-30, relative to those without 
additional support. The impact depended on the time period considered and the 
method for attributing deaths averted to vaccination in specific periods. The 
analyses support ongoing activities to reduce CRS-related morbidity and 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2018.1532257
PMCID: PMC6422479
PMID: 30285537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. BMC Health Serv Res. 2018 Oct 1;18(1):749. doi: 10.1186/s12913-018-3557-0.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of doctor-pharmacist collaborative prescribing for 
venous thromboembolism in high risk surgical patients.

Hale A(1), Merlo G(2), Nissen L(3), Coombes I(4), Graves N(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Clinical Sciences, Faculty of Health, Queensland University of 
Technology, Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital, Cnr Butterfield St and Bowen 
Bridge Road, Herston, Brisbane, 4029, Australia. andrew.hale@health.qld.gov.au.
(2)Australian Centre for Health Services Innovation, School of Public Health and 
Social Work, Institute of Health and Biomedical Innovation, Queensland 
University of Technology, Kelvin Grove, Brisbane, 4059, Australia.
(3)School of Clinical Sciences, Queensland University of Technology, Level 9, Q 
Block Room, 911, Brisbane, 4000, Australia.
(4)Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital, Cnr Butterfield St and Bowen Bridge 
Road, Herston, Brisbane, 4029, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Current evidence to support cost effectiveness of doctor- pharmacist 
collaborative prescribing is limited. Our aim was to evaluate inpatient 
prescribing of venous thromboembolism (VTE) prophylaxis by a pharmacist in an 
elective surgery pre-admission clinic against usual care, to measure any 
benefits in cost to the healthcare system and quality adjusted life years 
(QALYs) of patients.
METHOD: A decision tree model was developed to assess cost effectiveness of 
pharmacist prescribing compared with usual care for VTE prophylaxis in high risk 
surgical patients. Data from the literature was used to inform decision-tree 
probabilities, utility, and cost outcomes. In the intervention arm, a pharmacist 
prescribed patient's regular medications, documented a VTE risk assessment and 
prescribed VTE prophylaxis. In the usual care arm, resident medical officers 
were responsible for prescribing regular medications, and for risk assessment 
and prescribing of VTE prophylaxis. The base scenario assessed the cost 
effectiveness of a pre-existing pre-admission clinic pharmacy service that takes 
on a collaborative prescribing role. The alternative scenario assessed the 
benefits of introducing a pre-admission clinic pharmacy service where previously 
there had not been one. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis was conducted to 
explore uncertainty in the model.
RESULTS: In both the base-case scenario and the alternative scenario pharmacist 
prescribing resulted in an increase in the proportion of patients adequately 
treated and a decrease in the incidence of VTE resulting in cost savings and 
improvement in quality of life. The cost savings were $31 (95% CI: -$97, $160) 
per patient in the base scenario and $12 (95% CI: -$131, $155) per patient in 
the alternative scenario. In both scenarios the pharmacist-doctor prescribing 
resulted in an increase in QALYs of 0.02 (95% CI: -0.01, 0.005) per patient. The 
probability of being cost effective at a willingness to pay off $40,000 was 95% 
in the base scenario and 94% in the alternative scenario.
CONCLUSION: Delegation of the prescribing of VTE prophylaxis for high risk 
surgical patients to a pharmacist prescriber in PAC, as part of a designated 
scope of practice, would result in fewer cases of VTE and associated lower costs 
to the healthcare system and increased QALYs gained by patients.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Pre admission clinic study registered with ANZCTR-ACTR 
Number ACTRN12609000426280 .

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-018-3557-0
PMCID: PMC6167876
PMID: 30285744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL: The pre admission clinic 
prescribing study was approved by The Princess Alexandra Hospital Human Ethics 
Research Committee. All participants in the study provided written, informed 
consent to be included. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING 
INTERESTS: The authors declare they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S 
NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


382. J Cardiothorac Surg. 2018 Oct 3;13(1):103. doi: 10.1186/s13019-018-0786-6.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of single use negative pressure wound therapy 
dressings (sNPWT) compared to standard of care in reducing surgical site 
complications (SSC) in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting 
surgery.

Nherera LM(1), Trueman P(2), Schmoeckel M(3), Fatoye FA(4).

Author information:
(1)Smith & Nephew Advanced Wound Management, Global Market Access, 101 Hessle 
Road, Hull, HU3 2BN, UK. leo.nherera@smith-nephew.com.
(2)Smith & Nephew Advanced Wound Management, Global Market Access, 101 Hessle 
Road, Hull, HU3 2BN, UK.
(3)Vascular and Diabetic Centre Department of Heart Surgery, Asklepios Klinik 
St. Georg Cardiac, Lohmühlenstr 5, 20099, Hamburg, Germany.
(4)Department of Health Professions, Manchester Metropolitan University, 
Manchester, UK.

BACKGROUND: There is a growing interest in using negative pressure wound therapy 
in closed surgical incision to prevent wound complications which continue to 
persist following surgery despite advances in infection measures.
OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of single use negative pressure 
wound therapy (sNPWT) compared to standard of care in patients following 
coronary artery bypass grafting surgery (CABG) procedure to reduce surgical site 
complications (SSC) defined as dehiscence and sternotomy infections.
METHOD: A decision analytic model was developed from the Germany Statutory 
Health Insurance payer's perspective over a 12-week time horizon. Baseline data 
on SSC, revision operations, length of stay, and readmissions were obtained from 
a prospective observational study of 2621 CABG patients in Germany. 
Effectiveness data for sNPWT was taken from a randomised open label trial 
conducted in Poland which randomised 80 patients to treatment with either sNPWT 
or standard care. Cost data (in Euros) were taken from the relevant diagnostic 
related groups and published literature.
RESULTS: The clinical study reported an increase in wounds that healed without 
complications 37/40 (92.5%) in the sNPWT compared to 30/40 (75%) patients in the 
SC group p = 0.03. The model estimated sNPWT resulted in 0.989 complications 
avoided compared to 0.952 and the estimated quality adjusted life years were 
0.8904 and 0.8593 per patient compared to standard care. The estimated mean cost 
per patient was €19,986 for sNPWT compared to €20,572 for SC resulting in 
cost-saving of €586. The findings were robust to a range of sensitivity 
analyses.
CONCLUSION: The sNPWT can be considered a cost saving intervention that reduces 
surgical site complications following CABG surgery compared to standard care. We 
however recommend that additional economic studies should be conducted as new 
evidence on the use of sNPWT in CABG patients becomes available to validate the 
results of this economic analysis.

DOI: 10.1186/s13019-018-0786-6
PMCID: PMC6171177
PMID: 30285811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: LN and 
PT are employees of Smith & Nephew, Wound Management Hull, and may own shares of 
Smith & Nephew. MS and FAF have no competing financial interests. PUBLISHER’S 
NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


383. Lancet Neurol. 2018 Nov;17(11):939-953. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(18)30295-3.
Epub  2018 Oct 1.

Global, regional, and national burden of Parkinson's disease, 1990-2016: a 
systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2016.

GBD 2016 Parkinson's Disease Collaborators.

Collaborators: Dorsey ER, Elbaz A, Nichols E, Abbasi N, Abd-Allah F, Abdelalim 
A, Adsuar JC, Ansha MG, Brayne C, Choi JJ, Collado-Mateo D, Dahodwala N, Do HP, 
Edessa D, Endres M, Fereshtehnejad SM, Foreman KJ, Gankpe FG, Gupta R, Hamidi S, 
Hankey GJ, Hay SI, Hegazy MI, Hibstu DT, Kasaeian A, Khader Y, Khalil I, Khang 
YH, Kim YJ, Kokubo Y, Logroscino G, Massano J, Mohamed Ibrahim N, Mohammed MA, 
Mohammadi A, Moradi-Lakeh M, Naghavi M, Nguyen BT, Nirayo YL, Ogbo FA, Owolabi 
MO, Pereira DM, Postma MJ, Qorbani M, Rahman MA, Roba KT, Safari H, Safiri S, 
Satpathy M, Sawhney M, Shafieesabet A, Shiferaw MS, Smith M, Szoeke CEI, 
Tabarés-Seisdedos R, Truong NT, Ukwaja KN, Venketasubramanian N, Villafaina S, 
Weldegwergs KG, Westerman R, Wijeratne T, Winkler AS, Xuan BT, Yonemoto N, 
Feigin VL, Vos T, Murray CJL.

Erratum in
    Lancet Neurol. 2021 Dec;20(12):e7.

Comment in
    Lancet Neurol. 2018 Nov;17(11):928-929.

BACKGROUND: Neurological disorders are now the leading source of disability 
globally, and ageing is increasing the burden of neurodegenerative disorders, 
including Parkinson's disease. We aimed to determine the global burden of 
Parkinson's disease between 1990 and 2016 to identify trends and to enable 
appropriate public health, medical, and scientific responses.
METHODS: Through a systematic analysis of epidemiological studies, we estimated 
global, regional, and country-specific prevalence and years of life lived with 
disability for Parkinson's disease from 1990 to 2016. We estimated the 
proportion of mild, moderate, and severe Parkinson's disease on the basis of 
studies that used the Hoehn and Yahr scale and assigned disability weights to 
each level. We jointly modelled prevalence and excess mortality risk in a 
natural history model to derive estimates of deaths due to Parkinson's disease. 
Death counts were multiplied by values from the Global Burden of Disease study's 
standard life expectancy to compute years of life lost. Disability-adjusted 
life-years (DALYs) were computed as the sum of years lived with disability and 
years of life lost. We also analysed results based on the Socio-demographic 
Index, a compound measure of income per capita, education, and fertility.
FINDINGS: In 2016, 6·1 million (95% uncertainty interval [UI] 5·0-7·3) 
individuals had Parkinson's disease globally, compared with 2·5 million 
(2·0-3·0) in 1990. This increase was not solely due to increasing numbers of 
older people, because age-standardised prevalence rates increased by 21·7% (95% 
UI 18·1-25·3) over the same period (compared with an increase of 74·3%, 95% UI 
69·2-79·6, for crude prevalence rates). Parkinson's disease caused 3·2 million 
(95% UI 2·6-4·0) DALYs and 211 296 deaths (95% UI 167 771-265 160) in 2016. The 
male-to-female ratios of age-standardised prevalence rates were similar in 2016 
(1·40, 95% UI 1·36-1·43) and 1990 (1·37, 1·34-1·40). From 1990 to 2016, 
age-standardised prevalence, DALY rates, and death rates increased for all 
global burden of disease regions except for southern Latin America, eastern 
Europe, and Oceania. In addition, age-standardised DALY rates generally 
increased across the Socio-demographic Index.
INTERPRETATION: Over the past generation, the global burden of Parkinson's 
disease has more than doubled as a result of increasing numbers of older people, 
with potential contributions from longer disease duration and environmental 
factors. Demographic and potentially other factors are poised to increase the 
future burden of Parkinson's disease substantially.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(18)30295-3
PMCID: PMC6191528
PMID: 30287051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. J Emerg Med. 2018 Dec;55(6):e137-e139. doi: 10.1016/j.jemermed.2018.09.002.
Epub  2018 Oct 2.

Not Just Another "Found Down": Concomitant Upper Arm and Gluteal Compartment 
Syndrome.

Friedman ER(1), Butler KH(2).

Author information:
(1)Emergency Medicine Residency, University of Maryland Medical Center, 
Baltimore, Maryland.
(2)Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland.

BACKGROUND: Compartment syndrome is often considered in patients with long-bone 
fractures and soft-tissue injuries, but is not as commonly associated with a 
period of unconsciousness.
CASE REPORT: A 65-year-old man was brought to our emergency department (ED) 
because he had lost consciousness for an unknown amount of time after snorting 
heroin. He had severe pain in his upper right arm. Physical examination revealed 
right arm edema, paresthesia, tenderness, and firmness to palpation. During the 
ED assessment, the patient began to experience pain in his right hip to a degree 
exceeding examination findings. We considered compartment syndrome affecting his 
upper arm as well as his gluteal muscles. The patient was taken to the operating 
room for fasciotomy. The triceps muscle was found to be bulging out of the 
compartment, demonstrating advanced compartment syndrome. A posterior approach 
to the hip allowed the gluteal sling and the fascia to be released, eliminating 
tension on the gluteus medius/minimus and gluteus maximus compartments. With 
physical therapy, the patient regained full flexion and extension in his arm at 
the elbow, partial extension of his wrist, and range of motion and strength in 
his hip. WHY SHOULD AN EMERGENCY PHYSICIAN BE AWARE OF THIS?: If not recognized, 
compartment syndrome can jeopardize limb and life. It should be considered in 
patients experiencing inordinate pain, especially if they were found unconscious 
at the incident scene. Pressure-induced ischemia can impair muscle function 
within hours. If it is not relieved with fasciotomy, the patient can sustain 
irreversible functional loss.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jemermed.2018.09.002
PMID: 30287135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Biochim Biophys Acta Mol Basis Dis. 2019 Jul 1;1865(7):1876-1897. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbadis.2018.09.032. Epub 2018 Oct 1.

Diabetic gut microbiota dysbiosis as an inflammaging and immunosenescence 
condition that fosters progression of retinopathy and nephropathy.

Fernandes R(1), Viana SD(2), Nunes S(1), Reis F(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmacology & Experimental Therapeutics, Coimbra Institute for 
Clinical and Biomedical Research (iCBR), Faculty of Medicine, CNC.IBILI 
Consortium & CIBB Consortium, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(2)Institute of Pharmacology & Experimental Therapeutics, Coimbra Institute for 
Clinical and Biomedical Research (iCBR), Faculty of Medicine, CNC.IBILI 
Consortium & CIBB Consortium, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; 
Polytechnic Institute of Coimbra, ESTESC-Coimbra Health School, Pharmacy, 
Coimbra, Portugal.
(3)Institute of Pharmacology & Experimental Therapeutics, Coimbra Institute for 
Clinical and Biomedical Research (iCBR), Faculty of Medicine, CNC.IBILI 
Consortium & CIBB Consortium, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal. 
Electronic address: freis@fmed.uc.pt.

The increased prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and life expectancy 
of diabetic patients fosters the worldwide prevalence of retinopathy and 
nephropathy, two major microvascular complications that have been difficult to 
treat with contemporary glucose-lowering medications. The gut microbiota (GM) 
has become a lively field research in the last years; there is a growing 
recognition that altered intestinal microbiota composition and function can 
directly impact the phenomenon of ageing and age-related disorders. In fact, 
human GM, envisaged as a potential source of novel therapeutics, strongly 
modulates host immunity and metabolism. It is now clear that gut dysbiosis and 
their products (e.g. p-cresyl sulfate, trimethylamine‑N‑oxide) dictate a 
secretory associated senescence phenotype and chronic low-grade inflammation, 
features shared in the physiological process of ageing ("inflammaging") as well 
as in T2DM ("metaflammation") and in its microvascular complications. This 
review provides an in-depth look on the crosstalk between GM, host immunity and 
metabolism. Further, it characterizes human GM signatures of elderly and T2DM 
patients. Finally, a comprehensive scrutiny of recent molecular findings (e.g. 
epigenetic changes) underlying causal relationships between GM dysbiosis and 
diabetic retinopathy/nephropathy complications is pinpointed, with the ultimate 
goal to unravel potential pathophysiological mechanisms that may be explored, in 
a near future, as personalized disease-modifying therapeutic approaches.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2018.09.032
PMID: 30287404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Viruses. 2018 Oct 4;10(10):542. doi: 10.3390/v10100542.

The Westward Journey of Alfalfa Leaf Curl Virus.

Davoodi Z(1), Bejerman N(2)(3), Richet C(4)(5), Filloux D(6)(7), Kumari SG(8), 
Chatzivassiliou EK(9), Galzi S(10)(11), Julian C(12)(13), Samarfard S(14), 
Trucco V(15), Giolitti F(16), Fiallo-Olivé E(17), Navas-Castillo J(18), Asaad 
N(19), Moukahel AR(20), Hijazi J(21), Mghandef S(22), Heydarnejad J(23), Massumi 
H(24), Varsani A(25)(26), Dietzgen RG(27), Harkins GW(28), Martin DP(29), 
Roumagnac P(30)(31).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Protection, College of Agriculture, Shahid Bahonar 
University of Kerman, Kerman 761, Iran. z.davoodi@agr.uk.ac.ir.
(2)Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET), Godoy 
Cruz 2290, CABA, Argentina. nicobejerman@gmail.com.
(3)Instituto de Patología Vegetal⁻Centro de Investigaciones 
Agropecuarias⁻Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Agropecuaria (IPAVE-CIAP-INTA), 
5020 Córdoba, Argentina. nicobejerman@gmail.com.
(4)French Agricultural Research Centre for International Development (CIRAD), 
BGPI, Montpellier 34398, France. cecile.richet@supagro.fr.
(5)BGPI, INRA, CIRAD, SupAgro, Univ Montpellier, Montpellier 34398, France. 
cecile.richet@supagro.fr.
(6)French Agricultural Research Centre for International Development (CIRAD), 
BGPI, Montpellier 34398, France. denis.filloux@cirad.fr.
(7)BGPI, INRA, CIRAD, SupAgro, Univ Montpellier, Montpellier 34398, France. 
denis.filloux@cirad.fr.
(8)International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA), 
Beqa'a Valley, Zahle 1801, Lebanon. s.kumari@cgiar.org.
(9)Plant Pathology Laboratory, Department of Crop Science, Agricultural 
University of Athens, Athens 118 55, Votanikos, Greece. echatz@aua.gr.
(10)French Agricultural Research Centre for International Development (CIRAD), 
BGPI, Montpellier 34398, France. serge.galzi@cirad.fr.
(11)BGPI, INRA, CIRAD, SupAgro, Univ Montpellier, Montpellier 34398, France. 
serge.galzi@cirad.fr.
(12)French Agricultural Research Centre for International Development (CIRAD), 
BGPI, Montpellier 34398, France. charlotte.julian@cirad.fr.
(13)BGPI, INRA, CIRAD, SupAgro, Univ Montpellier, Montpellier 34398, France. 
charlotte.julian@cirad.fr.
(14)Queensland Alliance for Agriculture and Food Innovation, The University of 
Queensland, St Lucia 4072, Queensland, Australia. s.samarfard@uq.edu.au.
(15)Instituto de Patología Vegetal⁻Centro de Investigaciones 
Agropecuarias⁻Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Agropecuaria (IPAVE-CIAP-INTA), 
5020 Córdoba, Argentina. trucco.veronica@inta.gob.ar.
(16)Instituto de Patología Vegetal⁻Centro de Investigaciones 
Agropecuarias⁻Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Agropecuaria (IPAVE-CIAP-INTA), 
5020 Córdoba, Argentina. giolitti.fabian@inta.gob.ar.
(17)Instituto de Hortofruticultura Subtropical y Mediterránea "La Mayora", 
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas-Universidad de Málaga 
(IHSM-CSIC-UMA), Avenida Dr. Wienberg s/n, 29750 Algarrobo-Costa, Málaga 29001, 
Spain. efiallo@eelm.csic.es.
(18)Instituto de Hortofruticultura Subtropical y Mediterránea "La Mayora", 
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas-Universidad de Málaga 
(IHSM-CSIC-UMA), Avenida Dr. Wienberg s/n, 29750 Algarrobo-Costa, Málaga 29001, 
Spain. jnavas@eelm.csic.es.
(19)General Commission for Scientific Agricultural Research (GCSAR), 561-0817 
Al-Ghab, Hama, Syria. asaad_nader@yahoo.com.
(20)International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA), 
Beqa'a Valley, Zahle 1801, Lebanon. a.moukahel@cgiar.org.
(21)National Center for Agricultural Research and Extension (NCARE), 19381 
Al-Baqah, Jordan. hijazijomana@yahoo.com.
(22)Virology Laboratory, ICARDA, Ariana 2049, Tunisia. 
mghandefsamia91@gmail.com.
(23)Department of Plant Protection, College of Agriculture, Shahid Bahonar 
University of Kerman, Kerman 761, Iran. jheydarnejad@yahoo.com.
(24)Department of Plant Protection, College of Agriculture, Shahid Bahonar 
University of Kerman, Kerman 761, Iran. masoomi@uk.ac.ir.
(25)The Biodesign Center for Fundamental and Applied Microbiomics, Center for 
Evolution and Medicine and School of Life sciences, Arizona State University, 
Tempe, AZ 85287-5001, USA. arvind.varsani@asu.edu.
(26)Structural Biology Research Unit, Department of Clinical Laboratory 
Sciences, University of Cape Town, Cape Town 7925, Western Cape, South Africa. 
arvind.varsani@asu.edu.
(27)Queensland Alliance for Agriculture and Food Innovation, The University of 
Queensland, St Lucia 4072, Queensland, Australia. r.dietzgen@uq.edu.au.
(28)South African MRC Bioinformatics Unit, South African National Bioinformatics 
Institute, University of the Western Cape, Bellville 7535, Western Cape, South 
Africa. gordon@sanbi.ac.za.
(29)Computational Biology Group, Institute of Infectious Diseases and Molecular 
Medicine, University of Cape Town, Cape Town 7925, Western Cape, South Africa. 
darrenpatrickmartin@gmail.com.
(30)French Agricultural Research Centre for International Development (CIRAD), 
BGPI, Montpellier 34398, France. Philippe.roumagnac@cirad.fr.
(31)BGPI, INRA, CIRAD, SupAgro, Univ Montpellier, Montpellier 34398, France. 
Philippe.roumagnac@cirad.fr.

Alfalfa leaf curl virus (ALCV), which causes severe disease symptoms in alfalfa 
(Medicago sativa L.) and is transmitted by the widespread aphid species, Aphis 
craccivora Koch, has been found throughout the Mediterranean basin as well as in 
Iran and Argentina. Here we reconstruct the evolutionary history of ALCV and 
attempt to determine whether the recent discovery and widespread detection of 
ALCV is attributable either to past diagnostic biases or to the emergence and 
global spread of the virus over the past few years. One hundred and twenty ALCV 
complete genome sequences recovered from ten countries were analyzed and four 
ALCV genotypes (ALCV-A, ALCV-B, ALCV-C, and ALCV-D) were clearly distinguished. 
We further confirm that ALCV isolates are highly recombinogenic and that 
recombination has been a major determinant in the origins of the various 
genotypes. Collectively, the sequence data support the hypothesis that, of all 
the analyzed locations, ALCV likely emerged and diversified in the Middle East 
before spreading to the western Mediterranean basin and Argentina.

DOI: 10.3390/v10100542
PMCID: PMC6212810
PMID: 30287751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

