Health Quality Ontario.

Collaborators: McMartin K, McDowell S, Gajic-Veljanoski O, Ali A, Ekanayake S, 
Wells D, Holubowich C.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) for psychosis is a distinct type 
of psychotherapy that has been recommended together with antipsychotic drugs and 
comprehensive usual care in the management of schizophrenia, a complex mental 
health disorder associated with a high economic and societal burden. The 
objectives of this report were to assess the effectiveness, harms, 
cost-effectiveness, and lived experience of CBT for psychosis in improving 
outcomes for adults with a primary diagnosis of schizophrenia.
METHODS: We performed literature searches on March 28 and April 5, 2017, and 
undertook a qualitative synthesis of systematic reviews of the clinical and 
economic literature comparing CBT for psychosis with any comparator 
interventions (e.g., usual care, waitlist control, or pharmacotherapy) in adults 
with a diagnosis of schizophrenia as defined by any criteria (including related 
disorders such as schizoaffective disorder).We developed an individual-level 
state-transition probabilistic model for a hypothetical cohort of adults aged 18 
years and older starting with first-episode psychosis. We compared three 
strategies: usual care, CBT for psychosis by physicians, and CBT for psychosis 
by regulated nonphysician therapists. The CBT was provided in person together 
with usual care including pharmacotherapy: 16 structured sessions (individual or 
group) for first-episode psychosis and 24 individual sessions for relapse or 
treatment-resistant disease. We calculated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) over 5 years using the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care 
perspective and a discount rate of 1.5%. We also estimated the 5-year budget 
impact of publicly funding CBT for psychosis in Ontario.In addition, we 
interviewed 13 people with lived experience of schizophrenia and psychosis about 
their values and preferences surrounding CBT and other treatments.
RESULTS: CBT for psychosis compared with usual care significantly improved 
overall psychotic symptoms (standard mean difference [SMD] -0.33, 95% confidence 
interval [CI] -0.45 to -0.21), positive symptoms (e.g., hallucinations) (SMD 
-0.34, 95% CI -0.58 to -0.10), auditory symptoms (SMD 0.39, 95% Cl not reported, 
P < .005), delusions (SMD 0.33, 95% CI not reported, P < .05) and negative 
symptoms (e.g., blunt affect) (SMD -0.32, 95% CI -0.59 to -0.04) at end of 
treatment. No significant differences were observed for social function, 
distress associated with psychosis, relapse, or quality of life.Compared with 
any control, CBT for psychosis significantly improved overall psychotic 
symptoms, positive symptoms, auditory hallucinations, delusions, and negative 
symptoms. Compared with other forms of therapy, CBT for psychosis showed 
inconsistent results at end of treatment for overall psychotic symptoms, 
positive symptoms, auditory hallucinations, and delusions. In people with 
first-episode psychosis, CBT for psychosis was not significantly more effective 
for the prevention of relapse when compared with other forms of therapy or usual 
care (odds ratio [OR] 1.11, 95% CI 0.63-1.95 and OR 1.15, 95% CI 0.65-2.04, 
respectively).Low-intensity CBT for psychosis (fewer than 16 face-to-face 
sessions) compared with any type of treatment significantly improved overall 
psychotic symptoms and social function at follow-up (SMD -0.40, 95% CI -0.74 to 
-0.06 and SMD -0.57, 95% CI -0.81 to -0.33, respectively).In the cost-utility 
analysis, CBT for psychosis provided by nonphysician therapists compared with 
usual care was associated with increases in both quality-adjusted life-years 
(mean 0.1159 QALYs, 95% credible interval [CrI] 0.09-0.14) and costs (mean 
$2,494, 95% Crl $1,472-$3,544), yielding an ICER of $21,520 per QALY gained. CBT 
for psychosis provided by physicians was dominated because it was equally 
effective but more expensive (mean $2,976, 95% CrI $2,822-$3,129; ICER of CBT 
for psychosis vs. usual care: $47,196/QALY gained).Assuming a 20% increase in 
access per year (from 0% at baseline to 100% in year 5), we estimated the total 
5-year net budget impact of publicly funding CBT for psychosis would be about 
$15.2 million for nonphysician providers and about $35.4 million if provided by 
psychiatrists. It is estimated that by the year 2021, approximately 110 
nonphysician therapists or 150 physicians would be needed to provide CBT for 
psychosis to more than 12,000 adults with schizophrenia (including about 8,500 
incident cases) in Ontario.People with schizophrenia and their family members 
reported positive experiences with CBT for psychosis. They felt it provided 
effective tools to help manage their schizophrenia but stressed that it was only 
effective in conjunction with medication to control psychotic episodes and 
overcome a patient's denial of illness. Geographic and financial barriers have 
restricted access to this psychotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with usual care or any control, CBT for psychosis 
significantly improved psychotic symptoms, based on evidence of moderate to 
adequate quality; no significant improvements were observed for social function, 
relapse, or quality of life outcomes. People affected by schizophrenia reported 
that CBT for psychosis was valuable in conjunction with antipsychotic medication 
but that access to this type of psychotherapy is limited. Adding CBT for 
psychosis to usual care in the management of adult schizophrenia probably 
represents good value for money in Ontario. Depending on the type of provider, 
therapy format, and rate of access, the net budget impact to Ontario's publicly 
funded health system would likely be between $15 million to $35 million over the 
next 5 years.

PMCID: PMC6235075
PMID: 30443277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2018 Oct 24;18(6):1-139. eCollection 2018.

Bilateral Cochlear Implantation: A Health Technology Assessment.

Health Quality Ontario.

Collaborators: Lee C, Falk L, Wells D, Walter M.

BACKGROUND: Sensorineural hearing loss occurs as a result of damage to the hair 
cells in the cochlea, or to the auditory nerve. It negatively affects learning 
and development in children, and employment and economic attainment in adults. 
Current policy in Ontario is to provide unilateral cochlear implantation for 
patients with bilateral severe to profound sensorineural hearing loss. However, 
hearing with both ears as a result of bilateral cochlear implantation may offer 
added benefits.
METHODS: We completed a health technology assessment, which included an 
evaluation of clinical benefits and harms, value for money, budget impact, and 
patient preferences related to bilateral cochlear implantation. We performed a 
systematic literature search for studies on bilateral cochlear implantation in 
adults and children from inception to March 2017. We conducted a cost-utility 
analysis with a lifetime horizon from a public payer perspective and analyzed 
the budget impact of publicly funding bilateral cochlear implantation in adults 
and children in Ontario for the next 5 years. Finally, we conducted interviews 
with adults who have sensorineural hearing loss and unilateral or bilateral 
cochlear implants, and with parents of children with bilateral cochlear 
implants.
RESULTS: We included 24 publications (10 in adults, 14 in children) in the 
clinical evidence review. Compared with unilateral cochlear implantation, 
bilateral cochlear implantation improved sound localization, speech perception 
in noise, and subjective benefits of hearing in adults and children with severe 
to profound sensorineural hearing loss (GRADE: moderate to high). Bilateral 
cochlear implantation also allowed for better language development and more 
vocalization in preverbal communication in children (GRADE: moderate). The 
safety profile was acceptable.Bilateral cochlear implantation was more expensive 
and more effective than unilateral cochlear implantation. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was $48,978/QALY in adults and between $27,427/QALY and 
$30,386/QALY in children. Cost-effectiveness was highly dependent on the 
quality-of-life values used. We estimated that the net budget impact of publicly 
funding bilateral cochlear implantation for adults in Ontario would be between 
$510,000 and $780,000 per year for the next 5 years.Patients described the 
social and emotional effects of hearing loss, and the benefits and challenges of 
using cochlear implants.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on evidence of moderate to high quality, we found that 
bilateral cochlear implantation improved hearing in adults and children with 
severe to profound sensorineural hearing loss. Bilateral cochlear implantation 
was potentially cost-effective compared to unilateral cochlear implantation in 
adults and children. Patients with sensorineural hearing loss reported the 
positive effects of cochlear implants, and patients with unilateral cochlear 
implants generally expressed a desire for bilateral implants.

PMCID: PMC6235073
PMID: 30443278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Recent Pat Food Nutr Agric. 2019;10(2):93-105. doi: 
10.2174/2212798410666181116121957.

Strategies for Rot Control of Soybean Sprouts.

Choi JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Major in Food Biotechnology, Division of Bioindustry, College of Medical and 
Life Sciences, Silla University, 140, Baegyang-daero 700beon-gil, Sasang-gu, 
Busan, 46958, Korea.

Soybean sprouts are nutrient-rich, contain plentiful proteins, vitamin C, and 
minerals and are packed in small numbers after production. As soybean sprouts 
were mass produced in a factory, the occurrence of rotting in soybean sprouts 
has become a serious problem. To overcome these problems, many efforts have been 
made to provide healthy soybean sprouts in Korea. This paper reviewed the 
physicochemical techniques used for supplying water with antibacterial 
properties and the natural antimicrobial materials developed for soybean sprout 
cultivation. On the basis of this review, 11 of the antimicrobial agents and/or 
techniques currently used originated from mineral, non-metal ions, and metal 
ions, 4 from antagonistic microorganisms, 7 from agents originating from 
animals, 31 from medicinal and herbal plants, and 11 from physicochemical agents 
and/or techniques. In addition, these agents and/or techniques showed potential 
not only for the inhibition of spoilage and rot of soybean sprouts but also for 
the extension of product shelf life, the enhancement of taste and aroma, the 
enhancement of nutrition and functional components, growth promotion, and/or the 
reduction of production costs. Continuous scientific innovations and improved 
processing technology will aid in further advancements and improvements in this 
area. Therefore, this study offers useful insights suggesting direction for 
future research and provides information on the different anti-rotting agents 
and/or techniques for soybean sprouts developed to date, also as discussed in 
various patents.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/2212798410666181116121957
PMID: 30444205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. PLoS One. 2018 Nov 16;13(11):e0206871. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0206871. 
eCollection 2018.

Development of a multichannel current-EMG system for coherence modulation with 
visual biofeedback.

Comaduran Marquez D(1), von Tscharner V(2), Murari K(1)(3), Nigg BM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Engineering Graduate Program, University of Calgary, Calgary AB, 
Canada.
(2)Human Performance Laboratory, University of Calgary, Calgary AB, Canada.
(3)Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Calgary, Calgary AB, 
Canada.

By means of biofeedback, neuromotor control can be modified. Recent biofeedback 
experiments have used the power of the electromyogram of one muscle in different 
frequency bands to control a two-dimensional cursor. However, the human body 
usually requires coherent activation of multiple muscles to achieve daily life 
tasks. Additionally, electromyography (EMG) instrumentation has remained the 
same for decades, and might not be the most suitable to measure coherent 
activations from pennated muscles according to recent experiments by von 
Tscharner and colleagues. In this study, we propose the development of a 
multichannel current-based EMG amplifier to use intermuscular coherence as the 
control feature of a visual biofeedback system. The system was used in a leg 
extension protocol to voluntarily increase intermuscular coherence between the 
vastii muscles. Results from ten subjects show that it is possible to increase 
intermuscular coherence through visual biofeedback. Such a system can have 
applications in endurance training and rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0206871
PMCID: PMC6239290
PMID: 30444897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


857. Int J Food Microbiol. 2019 Feb 16;291:42-47. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2018.11.008. Epub 2018 Nov 9.

Combined effects of thymol, carvacrol and packaging on the shelf-life of 
marinated chicken.

Karam L(1), Roustom R(2), Abiad MG(3), El-Obeid T(4), Savvaidis IN(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing & Health Sciences, Faculty of Nursing & Health 
Sciences, Notre Dame University-Louaize, P.O. Box: 72, Zouk Mikael, Lebanon. 
Electronic address: lkaram@ndu.edu.lb.
(2)Department of Food Science and Technology, Faculty of Engineering, University 
of Balamand, Deir El Balamand, P.O. Box 100, Tripoli, Lebanon.
(3)Department of Nutrition and Food Sciences, Faculty of Agricultural and Food 
Sciences, American University of Beirut, Riad El Solh, 1107-2020, P.O. Box 
11-0236, Beirut, Lebanon.
(4)Human Nutrition Department, College of Health Sciences, Qatar University, 
P.O. Box: 2713, Doha, Qatar.
(5)Department of Nutrition and Food Sciences, Faculty of Agricultural and Food 
Sciences, American University of Beirut, Riad El Solh, 1107-2020, P.O. Box 
11-0236, Beirut, Lebanon; Laboratory of Food Chemistry and Food Microbiology, 
Department of Chemistry, University of Ioannina, GR-45110 Ioannina, Greece.

The demand for marinated chicken worldwide, is continuously growing. To date, 
limited data on addition of active components of Essential Oils (EOs) to 
marinades for chicken preservation are available. The antimicrobial effect of 
carvacrol and thymol, added at 0.4 and 0.8% v/w to marinated fresh chicken, 
stored in air and under vacuum packaging (VP), for 21 days at 4 °C, was 
examined. The samples were monitored for microbiological (total viable count 
(TVC), lactic acid bacteria (LAB), Brochothrix thermosphacta, Pseudomonas spp., 
total coliforms, Escherichia coli, yeasts and molds) and sensory attributes 
(odor characteristics). Our data supports that among the tested microorganisms, 
Pseudomonas spp., LAB and B. thermosphacta were the most dominant microbiota in 
the marinated chicken samples. Additionally, the use of active EOs components, 
especially the higher concentration (0.8% v/w) in combination with VP, retarded 
the growth of spoilage microbiota and resulted in a significant reduction of 
about 2.9-3.1 log cfu/g and a microbiological shelf-life extension of marinated 
chicken by >6 days, as judged by TVC data. Interestingly, the combination of 
active components of EOs at the lower concentration (0.4% v/w) and packaging 
(air or vacuum) resulted in a significant sensorial shelf-life extension of 15 
and >21 days, as compared to the controls' shelf-life of 9 days. The results of 
our study demonstrated the potential of the active components, carvacrol and 
thymol, as natural effective antimicrobial hurdles to control the growth of 
spoilage microorganisms in marinated chicken meat.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2018.11.008
PMID: 30445284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. AIDS Res Ther. 2018 Nov 16;15(1):19. doi: 10.1186/s12981-018-0210-2.

Frailty in people living with HIV.

Bloch M(1).

Author information:
(1)Holdsworth House Medical Practice, Darlinghurst, Level 3, 26 College St, 
Sydney, NSW, 2010, Australia. mark.bloch@holdsworthhouse.com.au.

The life expectancy of people living with HIV (PLHIV) has dramatically improved 
with effective and well-tolerated antiretroviral therapy. This presents a new 
challenge in caring for this patient population, with up to 28% of older PLHIV 
being identified as frail. Studies suggest that the prevalence of frailty is 
higher in PLHIV compared to the general population, and that the onset of 
frailty occurs at an earlier age. Frail individuals often present with multiple 
and non-specific health complaints, fluctuating disability, falls and delirium, 
and are at higher risk for multiple adverse outcomes, post-operative 
complications, poor responses to vaccination and functional decline. They tend 
to require longer hospital admissions, are more likely to require nursing home 
care, and are at greater risk of mortality. The degree of frailty can fluctuate 
over time. Limited evidence exists to support the reversal of frailty, but 
epidemiological evidence suggests that interventions to assess and manage 
co-morbidities, reducing risk factors such as smoking, increasing exercise and 
optimising BMI, and improving personal and community resources, are all likely 
to reduce the risk of frailty. Physicians who care for PLHIV need to recognise 
and manage frailty in this patient population. This includes an understanding 
of: when to intervene aggressively in the management of an older patient with a 
new HIV diagnosis to delay or prevent permanent debility and frailty; when to 
acknowledge that the patient has become frail; and the role of geriatric 
medicine in addressing the specific issues and needs of this patient, such as 
maximising functional ability, preventing falls, reducing social isolation and 
improving quality of life.

DOI: 10.1186/s12981-018-0210-2
PMCID: PMC6240180
PMID: 30445966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Phytochemistry. 2019 Feb;158:157-165. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2018.10.020.
Epub  2018 Nov 13.

An analysis of characterized plant sesquiterpene synthases.

Durairaj J(1), Di Girolamo A(2), Bouwmeester HJ(3), de Ridder D(4), Beekwilder 
J(5), van Dijk AD(6).

Author information:
(1)Bioinformatics Group, Department of Plant Sciences, Wageningen University, 
Netherlands. Electronic address: janani.durairaj@wur.nl.
(2)Laboratory of Plant Physiology, Department of Plant Sciences, Wageningen 
University, Netherlands. Electronic address: alice1.digirolamo@wur.nl.
(3)Swammerdam Institute for Life Sciences, University of Amsterdam, Netherlands. 
Electronic address: h.j.bouwmeester@uva.nl.
(4)Bioinformatics Group, Department of Plant Sciences, Wageningen University, 
Netherlands. Electronic address: dick.deridder@wur.nl.
(5)Laboratory of Plant Physiology, Department of Plant Sciences, Wageningen 
University, Netherlands; Bioscience, Wageningen Plant Research, Wageningen 
University, Netherlands. Electronic address: jules.beekwilder@wur.nl.
(6)Bioinformatics Group, Department of Plant Sciences, Wageningen University, 
Netherlands; Biometris, Department of Plant Sciences, Wageningen University, 
Netherlands. Electronic address: aaltjan.vandijk@wur.nl.

Plants exhibit a vast array of sesquiterpenes, C15 hydrocarbons which often 
function as herbivore-repellents or pollinator-attractants. These in turn are 
produced by a diverse range of sesquiterpene synthases. A comprehensive analysis 
of these enzymes in terms of product specificity has been hampered by the lack 
of a centralized resource of sufficient functionally annotated sequence data. To 
address this, we have gathered 262 plant sesquiterpene synthase sequences with 
experimentally characterized products. The annotated enzyme sequences allowed 
for an analysis of terpene synthase motifs, leading to the extension of one 
motif and recognition of a variant of another. In addition, putative terpene 
synthase sequences were obtained from various resources and compared with the 
annotated sesquiterpene synthases. This analysis indicated regions of terpene 
synthase sequence space which so far are unexplored experimentally. Finally, we 
present a case describing mutational studies on residues altering product 
specificity, for which we analyzed conservation in our database. This 
demonstrates an application of our database in choosing likely-functional 
residues for mutagenesis studies aimed at understanding or changing 
sesquiterpene synthase product specificity.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2018.10.020
PMID: 30446165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. J Orthop Sci. 2019 May;24(3):539-547. doi: 10.1016/j.jos.2018.10.020. Epub
2018  Nov 13.

Development of a patient-oriented disease specific outcome measure of 
health-related quality of life (HRQOL) for musculoskeletal oncology patients.

Ogura K(1), Uehara K(2), Akiyama T(3), Shinoda Y(2), Iwata S(4), Tsukushi S(5), 
Kobayashi E(6), Hirose T(6), Yonemoto T(4), Endo M(6), Tanzawa Y(6), Nakatani 
F(6), Kawano H(2), Tanaka S(2), Kawai A(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Musculoskeletal Oncology, National Cancer Center Hospital, 
5-1-1 Tsukiji, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, 104-0045, Japan; Department of Orthopaedic 
Surgery, The University of Tokyo Hospital, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 
113-8677, Japan. Electronic address: ogura-tky@umin.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The University of Tokyo Hospital, 7-3-1 
Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8677, Japan.
(3)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Saitama Medical Center, Jichi Medical 
University, 1-847 Amanuma, Omiya-ku, Saitama, Saitama, 330-8503, Japan.
(4)Division of Orthopaedic Surgery, Chiba Cancer Center, 666-2 Nitona-Cho, 
Chuo-ku, Chiba, Chiba, 260-8717, Japan.
(5)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Aichi Cancer Center Hospital, 1-1 
Kanokoden, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya, Aichi, 464-8681, Japan.
(6)Department of Musculoskeletal Oncology, National Cancer Center Hospital, 
5-1-1 Tsukiji, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, 104-0045, Japan.

BACKGROUND: According to improved functional outcome and life expectancy in 
orthopaedic oncology patients, there has been a growing interest in not only 
oncologic and functional outcomes but also health-related quality of life 
(HRQOL), including body image, mental status, or social activities, after 
surgery. However, there has been a lack of disease-specific measures focusing on 
the ability of orthopaedic oncology patients to evaluate their HRQOL 
comprehensively. Therefore, our aims in the present study were 1) to develop a 
patient-oriented disease-specific outcome measure of HRQOL for musculoskeletal 
oncology patients (COMMON-LE), and 2) to examine the practical applicability, 
reliability and validity of the COMMON-LE for patients with musculoskeletal 
tumors in the lower extremity.
METHODS: The COMMON-LE was developed by expert committee of orthopaedic oncology 
and rehabilitation. A total of 101 patients were surveyed using the COMMON-LE, 
as well as the TESS, the MSTS score, and the SF-36, to assess their psychometric 
characteristics, including reliability, validity, and responsiveness.
RESULTS: The COMMON-LE showed no marked floor and ceiling effects. Test-retest 
reliability and internal consistency determined using the intraclass correlation 
coefficient (0.928) and Cronbach's alpha (0.948-0.968), respectively, were 
excellent. Each domain of the COMMON-LE (pain, ADL, socioemotional condition and 
general health) was well correlated with the scores of the standard measures 
(SF-36, TESS, MSTS score). Factor analysis and the AIC network showed the 
questionnaire items of the COMMON-LE were clearly separable into three clusters 
according to their content, corresponding to each domain of the questionnaire.
CONCLUSIONS: We have successfully developed and validated a disease-specific 
measure, the COMMON-LE, to evaluate not only physical function, but also various 
aspects of HRQOL in patients with musculoskeletal tumors. The COMMON-LE has 
sufficient reliability and internal consistency, and good validity, and appears 
to be practically applicable to this group of patients.

Copyright © 2018 The Japanese Orthopaedic Association. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jos.2018.10.020
PMID: 30446332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Urol Oncol. 2019 Jan;37(1):18-25. doi: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2018.10.001. Epub
2018  Nov 13.

Use of delayed intervention for small renal masses initially managed with active 
surveillance.

Gupta M(1), Alam R(2), Patel HD(2), Semerjian A(2), Gorin MA(2), Johnson MH(2), 
Chang P(3), Wagner AA(3), McKiernan JM(4), Allaf ME(2), Pierorazio PM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute, Johns 
Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, MD. Electronic address: 
mgupta16@jhmi.edu.
(2)Department of Urology, James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute, Johns 
Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, MD.
(3)Division of Urology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA.
(4)Department of Urology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2019 Aug;202(2):207.

INTRODUCTION: A number of patients who elect active surveillance of their small 
renal masses (≤4 cm) subsequently pursue delayed intervention (DI). The 
indications, timing, and rates of DI have not been well determined 
prospectively.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data from Delayed Intervention and Surveillance for Small 
Renal Masses, a prospective, multi-institutional registry was utilized to 
evaluate factors associated with DI between 2009 and 2018.
RESULTS: Of 371 patients enrolled in AS, 46 (12.4%) pursued DI. Patients who 
pursued DI spent a median 12 months on surveillance (interquartile range 
5.5-23.6), had better functional status (P < 0.01), and had greater median 
growth rate vs. those who remained on surveillance (0.38 vs. 0.05, P < 0.001). 
Indications for intervention included growth rate >0.5 cm/y for 23 (50%) 
patients, patient preference for 22 (47.8%) patients, and qualification for 
renal transplant in 1 (2.2%) patient. Thirty-two patients (69.6%) underwent 
nephron-sparing surgery, 5 (10.9%) underwent radical nephrectomy, and 9 (19.6%) 
underwent percutaneous cryoablation. Renal mass biopsy was utilized in 37 
(11.4%) and 15 (32.7%) patients in the AS and DI arms, respectively (P = 0.04). 
No patients experienced metastatic progression or died of kidney cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: As nearly 50% of patients pursue DI secondary to anxiety in the 
absence of clinical progression, comprehensive counseling is essential to 
determine if patients are suitable for a surveillance protocol. AS remains a 
safe initial management option for many patients but may not be a durable 
strategy for patients who are acceptable surgical candidates with an extended 
life expectancy. DI does not compromise oncologic outcomes or limit treatment 
options.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2018.10.001
PMID: 30446459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. BMJ Support Palliat Care. 2023 Oct;13(e1):e115-e121. doi: 
10.1136/bmjspcare-2018-001623. Epub 2018 Nov 15.

Better drug use in advanced disease: an international Delphi study.

Huisman BAA(1), Geijteman ECT(2)(3), Dees MK(4), van Zuylen L(2), van der Heide 
A(3), Perez RSGM(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands b.huisman@vumc.nl.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, Erasmus 
University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(4)Radboud Institute for Health Sciences, IQ healthcare, Radboud University 
Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Anesthesiology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Patients with a limited life expectancy use many medications, some of which may 
be questionable. OBJECTIVES : To identify possible solutions for difficulties 
concerning medication management and formulate recommendations to improve 
medication management at the end of life. METHODS : A two-round Delphi study 
with experts in the field of medication management and end-of-life care (based 
on ranking in the citation index in Web of Science and relevant publications). 
We developed a questionnaire with 58 possible solutions for problems regarding 
medication management at the end of life that were identified in previously 
performed studies. RESULTS : A total of 42 experts from 13 countries 
participated. Response rate in the first round was 93%, mean agreement between 
experts for all solutions was 87 % (range 62%-100%); additional suggestions were 
given by 51%. The response rate in the second round was 74%. Awareness, 
education and timely communication about medication management came forward as 
top priorities for guidelines. In addition, solutions considered crucial by many 
of the experts were development of a list of inappropriate medications at the 
end of life and incorporation of recommendations for end-of-life medication 
management in disease-specific guidelines. CONCLUSIONS : In this international 
Delphi study, experts reached a high level of consensus on recommendations to 
improve medication management in end-of-life care. These findings may contribute 
to the development of clinical practice guidelines for medication management in 
end-of-life care.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjspcare-2018-001623
PMCID: PMC10646859
PMID: 30446489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


863. J Neurosci. 2019 Jan 2;39(1):63-77. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2095-18.2018.
Epub  2018 Nov 16.

Glial Sulfatides and Neuronal Complex Gangliosides Are Functionally 
Interdependent in Maintaining Myelinating Axon Integrity.

McGonigal R(1), Barrie JA(1), Yao D(1), McLaughlin M(2), Cunningham ME(1), Rowan 
EG(3), Willison HJ(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Glasgow, Institute of Infection, Immunity and Inflammation 
Glasgow G12 8TA, United Kingdom.
(2)University of Glasgow, School of Veterinary Biosciences, Glasgow G61 1QH, 
United Kingdom, and.
(3)University of Strathclyde, Strathclyde Institute of Pharmacy and Biochemical 
Sciences, Glasgow G4 0RE, United Kingdom.
(4)University of Glasgow, Institute of Infection, Immunity and Inflammation 
Glasgow G12 8TA, United Kingdom, Hugh.willison@glasgow.ac.uk.

Comment in
    J Neurosci. 2019 Aug 7;39(32):6218-6220.

Sulfatides and gangliosides are raft-associated glycolipids essential for 
maintaining myelinated nerve integrity. Mice deficient in sulfatide (cerebroside 
sulfotransferase knock-out, CST-/-) or complex gangliosides 
(β-1,4-N-acetylegalactosaminyltransferase1 knock-out, GalNAc-T-/-) display 
prominent disorganization of proteins at the node of Ranvier (NoR) in early life 
and age-dependent neurodegeneration. Loss of neuronal rather than glial complex 
gangliosides underpins the GalNAc-T-/- phenotype, as shown by neuron- or 
glial-specific rescue, whereas sulfatide is principally expressed and functional 
in glial membranes. The similarities in NoR phenotype of CST-/-, GalNAc-T-/-, 
and axo-glial protein-deficient mice suggests that these glycolipids stabilize 
membrane proteins including neurofascin155 (NF155) and myelin-associated 
glycoprotein (MAG) at axo-glial junctions. To assess the functional interactions 
between sulfatide and gangliosides, CST-/- and GalNAc-T-/- genotypes were 
interbred. CST-/-× GalNAc-T-/- mice develop normally to postnatal day 10 (P10), 
but all die between P20 and P25, coinciding with peak myelination. 
Ultrastructural, immunohistological, and biochemical analysis of either sex 
revealed widespread axonal degeneration and disruption to the axo-glial junction 
at the NoR. In addition to sulfatide-dependent loss of NF155, CST-/- × 
GalNAc-T-/- mice exhibited a major reduction in MAG protein levels in CNS myelin 
compared with WT and single-lipid-deficient mice. The CST-/- × GalNAc-T-/- 
phenotype was fully restored to that of CST-/- mice by neuron-specific 
expression of complex gangliosides, but not by their glial-specific expression 
nor by the global expression of a-series gangliosides. These data indicate that 
sulfatide and complex b-series gangliosides on the glial and neuronal membranes, 
respectively, act in concert to promote NF155 and MAG in maintaining the stable 
axo-glial interactions essential for normal nerve function.SIGNIFICANCE 
STATEMENT Sulfatides and complex gangliosides are membrane glycolipids with 
important roles in maintaining nervous system integrity. Node of Ranvier 
maintenance in particular requires stable compartmentalization of multiple 
membrane proteins. The axo-glial adhesion molecules neurofascin155 (NF155) and 
myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) require membrane microdomains containing 
either sulfatides or complex gangliosides to localize and function effectively. 
The cooperative roles of these microdomains and associated proteins are unknown. 
Here, we show vital interdependent roles for sulfatides and complex gangliosides 
because double (but not single) deficiency causes a rapidly lethal phenotype at 
an early age. These findings suggest that sulfatides and complex gangliosides on 
opposing axo-glial membranes are responsible for essential tethering of the 
axo-glial junction proteins NF155 and MAG, which interact to maintain the nodal 
complex.

Copyright © 2019 McGonigal et al.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2095-18.2018
PMCID: PMC6325269
PMID: 30446529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Sci Rep. 2018 Nov 16;8(1):16918. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-35059-2.

Identification of Two Mannosyltransferases Contributing to Biosynthesis of the 
Fungal-type Galactomannan α-Core-Mannan Structure in Aspergillus fumigatus.

Onoue T(1), Tanaka Y(2), Hagiwara D(3), Ekino K(1), Watanabe A(3), Ohta K(1), 
Kamei K(3), Shibata N(2), Goto M(4), Oka T(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Microbial Technology, Faculty of Biotechnology and Life 
Science, Sojo University, Kumamoto, Japan.
(2)Department of Infection and Host Defense, Tohoku Medical and Pharmaceutical 
University, Sendai, Japan.
(3)Medical Mycology Research Center, Chiba University, Chiba, Japan.
(4)Department of Applied Biochemistry and Food Science, Saga University, Saga, 
Japan.
(5)Department of Applied Microbial Technology, Faculty of Biotechnology and Life 
Science, Sojo University, Kumamoto, Japan. oka@bio.sojo-u.ac.jp.

Erratum in
    Sci Rep. 2020 Jul 9;10(1):11589.

Fungal-type galactomannan (FTGM) is a polysaccharide composed of 
α-(1 → 2)-/α-(1 → 6)-mannosyl and β-(1 → 5)-/β-(1 → 6)-galactofuranosyl residues 
located at the outer cell wall of the human pathogenic fungus Aspergillus 
fumigatus. FTGM contains a linear α-mannan structure called core-mannan composed 
of 9 or 10 α-(1 → 2)-mannotetraose units jointed by α-(1 → 6)-linkages. However, 
the enzymes involved in core-mannan biosynthesis remain unknown. We speculated 
that two putative α-1,2-mannosyltransferase genes in A. fumigatus, 
Afu5g02740/AFUB_051270 (here termed core-mannan synthase A [CmsA]) and 
Afu5g12160/AFUB_059750 (CmsB) are involved in FTGM core-mannan biosynthesis. We 
constructed recombinant proteins for CmsA and detected robust 
mannosyltransferase activity using the chemically synthesized substrate 
p-nitrophenyl α-D-mannopyranoside as an acceptor. Analyses of CmsA enzymatic 
product revealed that CmsA possesses the capacity to transfer a mannopyranoside 
to the C-2 position of α-mannose. CmsA could also transfer a mannose residue to 
α-(1 → 2)-mannobiose and α-(1 → 6)-mannobiose and showed a 31-fold higher 
specific activity toward α-(1 → 6)-mannobiose than toward α-(1 → 2)-mannobiose. 
Proton nuclear magnetic resonance (1H-NMR) spectroscopy and gel filtration 
chromatography of isolated FTGM revealed that core-mannan structures were 
drastically altered and shortened in disruptant A. fumigatus strains ∆cmsA, 
∆cmsB, and ∆cmsA∆cmsB. Disruption of cmsA or cmsB resulted in severely repressed 
hyphal extension, abnormal branching hyphae, formation of a balloon structure in 
hyphae, and decreased conidia formation. The normal wild type core-mannan 
structure and developmental phenotype were restored by the complementation of 
cmsA and cmsB in the corresponding disruptant strains. These findings indicate 
that both CmsA, an α-1,2-mannosyltransferase, and CmsB, a putative 
mannosyltransferase, are involved in FTGM biosynthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-35059-2
PMCID: PMC6240093
PMID: 30446686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


865. Theor Popul Biol. 2019 Feb;125:1-10. doi: 10.1016/j.tpb.2018.10.001. Epub
2018  Nov 14.

The inverse relationship between life expectancy-induced changes in the old-age 
dependency ratio and the prospective old-age dependency ratio.

Ediev DM(1), Sanderson WC(2), Scherbov S(3).

Author information:
(1)Wittgenstein Centre for Demography and Global Human Capital (IIASA, VID/ÖAW, 
WU), International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Schlossplatz 1, 2361 
Laxenburg, Austria; North-Caucasian State Humanitarian-Technological Academy, 
Institute for Applied Mathematics and Information Technologies, Stavropolskaya 
36, Cherkessk, 369000, Russian Federation. Electronic address: 
ediev@iiasa.ac.at.
(2)Wittgenstein Centre for Demography and Global Human Capital (IIASA, VID/ÖAW, 
WU), International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Schlossplatz 1, 2361 
Laxenburg, Austria; Department of Economics, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook 
11794-4384, NY, USA.
(3)Wittgenstein Centre for Demography and Global Human Capital (IIASA, VID/ÖAW, 
WU), International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Schlossplatz 1, 2361 
Laxenburg, Austria; International Laboratory on Demography and Human Capital, 
Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration, 
Prospekt Vernadskogo, 84, 119571 Moscow, Russian Federation.

Unlike other biological populations, the human population is experiencing 
long-run increases in life expectancy. Those lead to changes in age compositions 
not typical for other biological populations. Sanderson and Scherbov (2015a) 
demonstrated that, in many countries in Europe, faster increases in life 
expectancy lead to faster population aging when measured using the old-age 
dependency ratio and to slower population aging when measured using the 
prospective old-age dependency ratio that employs a dynamic old-age threshold. 
We examine this finding analytically and with simulations. We use an analytic 
decomposition of changes in mortality schedules into shift and compression 
processes. We show that shifts and compressions of mortality schedules push the 
two old-age dependency ratios in opposite directions. Our formal results are 
supported by simulations that show a positive effect of a mortality shift on the 
old-age dependency ratio and a negative effect of it on the prospective old-age 
dependency ratio. The effects are of opposite sign for a mortality compression. 
Our formal and simulation results generalize observed European trends and 
suggest that the inverse relationship between life expectancy and prospective 
old-age dependency would be observed more generally.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tpb.2018.10.001
PMID: 30447230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Econ Hum Biol. 2018 Sep;31:228-237. doi: 10.1016/j.ehb.2018.08.009. Epub
2018  Sep 8.

Health and economic development since 1900.

Gallardo-Albarrán D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Econometrics & Finance, Faculty of Economics, 
University of Groningen, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
d.gallardo.albarran@rug.nl.

The 20th century has brought unprecedented gains in health. While these have 
improved citizens' lives worldwide, progress has been uneven and have in turn 
led to substantial cross-country health inequalities. This article looks at the 
effects of these inequalities on between-country economic inequality since 1900 
using a level accounting framework that includes life expectancy as an important 
part of human capital besides education. The main results show that health has 
been a historically important source of cross-country income variation. In 1900 
and 1955, differences in life expectancy accounted for almost 20 percent and a 
quarter of between-country income inequality. In addition, I find that the 
reduction of cross-country health differentials between mid-20th century and 
1990 was an important source of income convergence. In a counterfactual 
exercise, I show that between-country income inequality would have been almost 
20 percent higher nowadays, had the process of health convergence after 1955 not 
taken place. Finally, I find that the relative importance of health for income 
levels has stayed constant in the last three decades due to a deceleration in 
the rate of health convergence.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ehb.2018.08.009
PMID: 30447408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Econ Hum Biol. 2018 Sep;31:276-286. doi: 10.1016/j.ehb.2018.10.001. Epub
2018  Oct 10.

The effects of competition outcomes on health: Evidence from the lifespans of 
U.S. Olympic medalists.

Kalwij A(1).

Author information:
(1)Utrecht University School of Economics, PO Box 80125, 3508 TC Utrecht, the 
Netherlands. Electronic address: a.s.kalwij@uu.nl.

This paper investigates the effects of competition outcomes on health by using 
U.S. Olympic medalists' lifespans and medal colors as a natural experiment. 
Whereas the life expectancies of gold and bronze medalists do not differ 
significantly, life expectancy of silver medalists is about 2.4 and 3.9 years 
less than these former, respectively. These findings are readily explainable by 
insights from behavioral economics, psychology, and human biology, which suggest 
that (perceived) dissatisfactory competition outcomes may adversely affect 
health. Competition outcomes that affect socioeconomic status (SES) could, 
therefore, play an important causal role in the positive SES-health gradient 
among the general population.

Copyright © 2018 The Author. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ehb.2018.10.001
PMID: 30447409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Respir Investig. 2019 Jan;57(1):40-48. doi: 10.1016/j.resinv.2018.10.003.
Epub  2018 Nov 15.

The clinical features of older patients with lung cancer in comparison with 
their younger counterparts.

Ogino H(1), Hanibuchi M(2), Sakaguchi S(1), Toyoda Y(1), Tezuka T(1), Kawano 
H(1), Kakiuchi S(1), Otsuka K(1), Saijo A(1), Azuma M(1), Nokihara H(3), Goto 
H(1), Nishioka Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine and Rheumatology, Graduate School of 
Biomedical Sciences, Tokushima University, 3-18-15, Kuramoto-cho, Tokushima 
770-8503, Japan.
(2)Department of Respiratory Medicine and Rheumatology, Graduate School of 
Biomedical Sciences, Tokushima University, 3-18-15, Kuramoto-cho, Tokushima 
770-8503, Japan; Department of Internal Medicine, Shikoku Central Hospital of 
the Mutual aid Association of Public School Teachers, 2233, Kawanoe-cho, 
Shikoku-Chuo 799-0193, Japan.
(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine and Rheumatology, Graduate School of 
Biomedical Sciences, Tokushima University, 3-18-15, Kuramoto-cho, Tokushima 
770-8503, Japan; Clinical Trial Center for Developmental Therapeutics, Tokushima 
University Hospital, 2-50-1, Kuramoto-cho, Tokushima 770-8503, Japan.
(4)Department of Respiratory Medicine and Rheumatology, Graduate School of 
Biomedical Sciences, Tokushima University, 3-18-15, Kuramoto-cho, Tokushima 
770-8503, Japan. Electronic address: yasuhiko@tokushima-u.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: Older patients with lung cancer have increased over the past 
decades. Several standard treatments for older patients were established, but 
their clinical features in real world clinics remain unknown. Thus, we performed 
a retrospective study to clarify the clinical features of them.
METHODS: The patients with lung cancer who were admitted to our hospital between 
April 1, 2012 and March 31, 2015 were retrospectively analyzed. Patients older 
than 75 years were defined as older patients. Standard treatments were based on 
the guidelines.
RESULTS: In total, 333 patients were analyzed. The older patients had a poor 
performance status (PS), more comorbidities, and fewer opportunities to receive 
standard treatments. The prognosis of the older patients who received standard 
treatments was superior to that of those who did not. The therapeutic efficacy 
of standard treatments for older patients with stages I and II diseases was 
similar to their younger counterparts. However, the prognosis of older patients 
with advanced stage, especially stage III disease, was poor. The tolerability of 
first-line chemotherapy by older patients was comparable with their younger 
counterparts, but the older patients had fewer opportunities to receive several 
chemotherapy regimens, even second line chemotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: We should positively consider standard treatments for older 
patients. However, not only their shorter life expectancy but also their poor PS 
and multiple comorbidities that sometimes render patients unable to receive 
standard treatments and several chemotherapy regimens, make their prognosis 
poor. The standard treatments for older patients, especially in locally advanced 
stages, require modification.

Copyright © 2018 The Japanese Respiratory Society. Published by Elsevier B.V. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.resinv.2018.10.003
PMID: 30448243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Ann Thorac Surg. 2019 Apr;107(4):1146-1153. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2018.10.010. Epub 2018 Nov 15.

Emergency Surgery for Acute Type A Aortic Dissection in Octogenarians Without 
Patient Selection.

Suzuki T(1), Asai T(2), Kinoshita T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Shiga University of Medical Science, 
Otsu, Shiga, Japan. Electronic address: suzukit@belle.shiga-med.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Shiga University of Medical Science, 
Otsu, Shiga, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Octogenarians are often declined an emergency operation for acute 
type A aortic dissection on grounds of high mortality rate and short life 
expectancy. Our policy is to accept all patients at any time and never to refuse 
an emergency operation, even for octogenarians.
METHODS: From April 2004 to September 2017, 319 patients underwent surgical 
repair for acute type A aortic dissection at our institution. We compared the 
clinical results between the 55 elderly patients (≥80 years old; older group) 
and the 264 nonelderly patients (≤79 years old; younger group). The primary end 
point was early mortality, and the secondary end point was long-term mortality.
RESULTS: The older group had a higher proportion of women (74.5% vs 46.6%), a 
lower body mass index (21.4 vs 23.8 kg/m2), and a lower proportion of smokers 
(20.0% vs 46.2%). In the two groups (older vs younger), postoperative stroke 
occurred in 12.7% versus 11.4% and hospital mortality in 10.2% versus 10.9%, 
with no significant statistical difference. In multivariate analysis, older age 
of 80 years or older was not a significant risk factor for hospital mortality. 
Among the hospital survivors, the actuarial survival rate at 8 years was 52.5% 
in the older group and 85.0% in the younger group (p = 0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: Emergency surgical repair for type A aortic dissection in 
octogenarians without patient selection resulted in similar rates of mortality 
and morbidity as younger patients. Octogenarians should not be refused this 
life-saving emergency operation.

Copyright © 2019 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2018.10.010
PMID: 30448481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Forensic Sci Int Genet. 2019 Jan;38:204-210. doi:
10.1016/j.fsigen.2018.11.012.  Epub 2018 Nov 12.

Forensic tri-allelic SNP genotyping using nanopore sequencing.

Cornelis S(1), Gansemans Y(2), Vander Plaetsen AS(3), Weymaere J(4), Willems 
S(5), Deforce D(6), Van Nieuwerburgh F(7).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Ghent University, 9000 Gent, 
Belgium; Department of Life Sciences and Imaging, imec, 3001 Leuven, Belgium. 
Electronic address: Senne.Cornelis@UGent.be.
(2)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Ghent University, 9000 Gent, 
Belgium. Electronic address: Yannick.Gansemans@UGent.be.
(3)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Ghent University, 9000 Gent, 
Belgium. Electronic address: AnnSophie.VanderPlaetsen@UGent.be.
(4)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Ghent University, 9000 Gent, 
Belgium. Electronic address: Jana.Weymaere@UGent.be.
(5)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Ghent University, 9000 Gent, 
Belgium. Electronic address: Sander.Willems@UGent.be.
(6)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Ghent University, 9000 Gent, 
Belgium. Electronic address: Dieter.Deforce@UGent.be.
(7)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Ghent University, 9000 Gent, 
Belgium. Electronic address: Filip.VanNieuwerburgh@UGent.be.

The potential and current state-of-the-art of forensic SNP genotyping using 
nanopore sequencing was investigated with a panel of 16 tri-allelic single 
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), multiplexing five samples per sequencing run. 
The sample set consisted of three single-source human genomic reference control 
DNA samples and two GEDNAP samples, simulating casework samples. The primers for 
the multiplex SNP-loci PCR were taken from a study which researched their value 
in a forensic setting using conventional single-base extension technology. 
Workflows for multiplexed Oxford Nanopore Technologies' 1D and 1D2 sequencing 
were developed that provide correct genotyping of most SNP loci. Loci that are 
problematic for nanopore sequencing were characterized. When such loci are 
avoided, nanopore sequencing of forensic tri-allelic SNPs is technically 
feasible.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2018.11.012
PMID: 30448528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Epilepsy Behav. 2018 Nov;88:315-324. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2018.06.047. Epub
2018  Oct 27.

Does memantine improve memory in subjects with focal-onset epilepsy and memory 
dysfunction? A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.

Leeman-Markowski BA(1), Meador KJ(2), Moo LR(3), Cole AJ(4), Hoch DB(4), Garcia 
E(5), Schachter SC(6).

Author information:
(1)Research Service, VA New York Harbor Healthcare System, New York, NY, USA; 
Department of Neurology, New York University Langone Medical Center, New York, 
NY, USA. Electronic address: beth.leeman-markowski@nyumc.org.
(2)Department of Neurology & Neurological Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Palo Alto, CA, USA.
(3)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, Edith Nourse Rogers 
Memorial Veterans Hospital, Bedford, MA, USA; Department of Neurology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA; Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
MA, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA; 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA; Newton-Wellesley 
Neurology Associates, PC, Newton Lower Falls, MA, USA.
(6)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center, Boston, MA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Excitotoxic injury involving N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor 
hyperactivity contributes to epilepsy-related memory dysfunction (ERMD). Current 
treatment strategies for ERMD have limited efficacy and fail to target the 
underlying pathophysiology. The present pilot study evaluated the efficacy of 
memantine, an NMDA receptor antagonist, for the treatment of ERMD in adults with 
focal-onset seizures.
METHODS: Subjects underwent cognitive testing at baseline, after a 13-week 
randomized, parallel-group, double-blinded phase (of memantine titrated to 10 mg 
bid or placebo), and following a 13-week open-label extension phase (of 
memantine titrated to 10 mg bid). The selective reminding test (SRT) continuous 
long-term retrieval (CLTR) score and 7/24 Spatial Recall Test learning score 
served as the primary outcome measures. Secondary measures included tests of 
attention span, fluency, visual construction, and response inhibition, as well 
as assessments of quality of life, depression, sleepiness, and side effects.
RESULTS: Seventeen subjects contributed data to the blinded phase (n = 8 
memantine, n = 9 placebo). No significant differences were seen between groups 
on the primary or secondary outcome measures. Pooled data at the end of the 
open-label phase from 10 subjects (initially randomized to memantine n = 3 or 
placebo n = 7) demonstrated statistically significant improvement from baseline 
in CLTR score, memory-related quality of life, spatial span, and response 
inhibition. No significant changes were evident in depression, sleepiness, side 
effects, or seizure frequency throughout the trial.
SIGNIFICANCE: Results demonstrated no significant effect of memantine on 
cognition when assessed at the end of the blinded period. Pooled data at the end 
of the open-label phase showed significant improvement over baseline performance 
in measures of verbal memory, frontal-executive function, and memory-related 
quality of life. These improvements, however, may be due to practice effects and 
should be interpreted cautiously. Findings suggest a favorable safety profile of 
memantine in the setting of epilepsy.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2018.06.047
PMCID: PMC7261142
PMID: 30449328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest None of the authors has any 
conflict of interest to disclose.


872. Lancet Infect Dis. 2019 Jan;19(1):17-18. doi: 10.1016/S1473-3099(18)30708-4.
 Epub 2018 Nov 15.

Attributable deaths and disability-adjusted life-years caused by infections with 
antibiotic-resistant bacteria in Switzerland.

Gasser M(1), Zingg W(2), Cassini A(3), Kronenberg A(4); Swiss Centre for 
Antibiotic Resistance.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Infectious Diseases, University of Bern, 3001 Bern, 
Switzerland. Electronic address: michael.gasser@ifik.unibe.ch.
(2)Infection Control Programme and WHO Collaborating Centre, University of 
Geneva Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, Solna, Sweden.
(4)Institute for Infectious Diseases, University of Bern, 3001 Bern, 
Switzerland.

Erratum in
    Lancet Infect Dis. 2019 Jan;19(1):e1.

DOI: 10.1016/S1473-3099(18)30708-4
PMID: 30449661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Demogr Res. 2017 Jul-Dec;37:1549-1610. doi: 10.4054/DemRes.2017.37.48. Epub
