Atlanta, GA 30332.
(3)School of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Georgia Institute of Technology, 
Atlanta, GA 30332; loren.williams@chemistry.gatech.edu 
jennifer.glass@eas.gatech.edu.
(4)School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, Georgia Institute of Technology, 
Atlanta, GA 30332 loren.williams@chemistry.gatech.edu 
jennifer.glass@eas.gatech.edu.

Today, Mg2+ is an essential cofactor with diverse structural and functional 
roles in life's oldest macromolecular machine, the translation system. We tested 
whether ancient Earth conditions (low O2, high Fe2+, and high Mn2+) can revert 
the ribosome to a functional ancestral state. First, SHAPE (selective 
2'-hydroxyl acylation analyzed by primer extension) was used to compare the 
effect of Mg2+, Fe2+, and Mn2+ on the tertiary structure of rRNA. Then, we used 
in vitro translation reactions to test whether Fe2+ or Mn2+ could mediate 
protein production, and quantified ribosomal metal content. We found that (i) 
Mg2+, Fe2+, and Mn2+ had strikingly similar effects on rRNA folding; (ii) Fe2+ 
and Mn2+ can replace Mg2+ as the dominant divalent cation during translation of 
mRNA to functional protein; and (iii) Fe and Mn associate extensively with the 
ribosome. Given that the translation system originated and matured when Fe2+ and 
Mn2+ were abundant, these findings suggest that Fe2+ and Mn2+ played a role in 
early ribosomal evolution.

Copyright © 2018 the Author(s). Published by PNAS.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1803636115
PMCID: PMC6275528
PMID: 30413624

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


778. Spinal Cord. 2019 Apr;57(4):267-275. doi: 10.1038/s41393-018-0212-x. Epub
2018  Nov 9.

Survival after non-traumatic spinal cord injury: evidence from a 
population-based rehabilitation cohort in Switzerland.

Buzzell A(1)(2), Chamberlain JD(1)(2)(3), Gmünder HP(4), Hug K(5), Jordan X(6), 
Schubert M(7), Brinkhof MWG(8)(9); SwiSCI study group.

Author information:
(1)Swiss Paraplegic Research, Nottwil, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Health Sciences and Health Policy, University of Lucerne, 
Lucerne, Switzerland.
(3)Institute of Social and Preventative Medicine, University of Bern, Bern, 
Switzerland.
(4)Swiss Paraplegic Center, Nottwil, Switzerland.
(5)REHAB Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(6)Clinique Romand de Réadaption, Sion, Switzerland.
(7)Spinal Cord Injury Center, Balgrist University Hospital, Zurich, Switzerland.
(8)Swiss Paraplegic Research, Nottwil, Switzerland. 
martin.brinkhof@paraplegie.ch.
(9)Department of Health Sciences and Health Policy, University of Lucerne, 
Lucerne, Switzerland. martin.brinkhof@paraplegie.ch.

STUDY DESIGN: Observational cohort study.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate survival and life expectancy after NTSCI in 
Switzerland according to etiology.
SETTING: Specialized rehabilitation centers in Switzerland.
METHODS: Longitudinal data from the Swiss Spinal Cord Injury (SwiSCI) medical 
records study were used. Adjusted hazard ratios (HRs) and life expectancies were 
estimated using flexible parametric survival modeling.
RESULTS: One thousand four hundred and fifty individuals were admitted to first 
rehabilitation for NTSCI between 1990 and 2011, contributing 6137 cumulative 
person-years at risk and 528 deaths. With reference to persons with a 
degenerative disc disorder, the HR for mortality in individuals with NTSCIs from 
infections was 1.42 (95% CI 0.99-2.04), while risk in those with NTSCIs from 
vascular disorders was 1.28 (95% CI 0.97-1.68). Mortality risk was most 
pronounced in individuals with NTSCIs from malignant neoplasms (HR 6.32, 95% CI 
4.79-8.34). Exemplified for males with an attained age of 60 years, a malignant 
etiology was associated with 1.7 life years remaining (LYR), as compared to 10.1 
LYR for non-malignant etiologies. Males with an attained age of 60 years and a 
degenerative disc etiology were estimated to have 12.9 LYR.
CONCLUSIONS: This study contributes an evidence base for risk factors of 
mortality after NTSCI, reducing a considerable knowledge gap in survival after 
NTSCI. Survival and life expectancy estimates were highly differential between 
etiological groups, indicating a need for a heterogeneous clinical approach and 
dynamic health-care provisions for this growing population.

DOI: 10.1038/s41393-018-0212-x
PMID: 30413804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Arch Osteoporos. 2018 Nov 9;13(1):122. doi: 10.1007/s11657-018-0535-4.

Cost-effectiveness of a home safety intervention to prevent falls in impaired 
elderly people living in the community.

Kunigkeit C(1), Stock S(1), Müller D(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Economics and Clinical Epidemiology, The University 
Hospital of Cologne (AöR), Gleueler Strasse 176 - 178 / II, D -, 50935, Cologne, 
Germany.
(2)Institute for Health Economics and Clinical Epidemiology, The University 
Hospital of Cologne (AöR), Gleueler Strasse 176 - 178 / II, D -, 50935, Cologne, 
Germany. Dirk.Mueller@uk-koeln.de.

PURPOSE: Among others, the German National Prevention Conference recently 
recommended the provision of preventive options for elderly to maintain their 
independent living. Because a home safety assessment and modification program 
(HSM) has shown to be effective in avoiding falls and risk of falling in 
elderly, the aim of this analysis was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of HSM 
in patients aged ≥ 80 years who receive non-institutionalized long-term care.
METHODS: In order to reflect quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and costs 
resulting from HSM, a Markov-model with a time horizon of 20 years was performed 
from the perspective of the German statutory health insurance (SHI) and 
statutory long-term care insurance (LCI). The model assumed that HSM reduces 
fall-related hip fractures in accordance with the reduction of the rate of 
falls. Data was obtained from public databases and from various literature 
searches. The robustness of the results was assessed in deterministic and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: In women, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of HSM compared to 
no prevention was €9580 per QALY, while in men, it was €57,589. For the German 
SHI/LCI, in total, the provision of HSM to patients ≥ 80 years who receive 
non-institutionalized long-term care would result in annual costs of €7.7 
million. The results were robust in several sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Provided that the rate of falls is a valid surrogate endpoint for 
the rate of fall-related hip fractures, HSM could be a promising approach for 
investments in preventive options targeting the reduction of fall-related 
fractures in elderly women.

DOI: 10.1007/s11657-018-0535-4
PMID: 30413893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2019 Feb;52(Suppl 1):52-61. doi:
10.1007/s00391-018-01474-3.  Epub 2018 Nov 9.

Social inequality in working life expectancy in Sweden.

Kadefors R(1), Nilsson K(2), Östergren PO(3), Rylander L(2), Albin M(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and Work Science, University of Gothenburg, Box 705, 
405 30, Gothenburg, Sweden. roland.kadefors@socav.gu.se.
(2)Division of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, Lund University, Lund, 
Sweden.
(3)Division of Social Medicine and Global Health, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(4)Institute of Environmental Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.

BACKGROUND: In Sweden there is a socioeconomic divide between white and blue 
collar workers with respect to the risk for premature exit from working life. 
Disability pension has long represented a major reason behind early exits.
OBJECTIVE: The present investigation aimed at studying the effect on 
socioeconomic groups of new guidelines issued by the Swedish government in 2006, 
limiting the possibilities for applicants to be granted pension on medical 
grounds.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: The study was based on register data comprising the 
prevalence of disability pension and premature age pension in different 
occupations in the age group 55-64 years, comparing the years 2006 and 2011.
RESULTS: It was found that in 2011 under the new guidelines, newly approved 
disability pensions had dropped by 70%. Women were affected more than men. The 
drop in disability pensions affected applicants within the two most prevalent 
diagnosis groups, mental disorders (a drop by 58%) and musculoskeletal disorders 
(a drop by 87%). In the same time period, the percentage in the age range 
55-64 years choosing premature age pension more than doubled. An increase in the 
number of premature age pensions was more common in blue collar occupational 
groups than in white collar workers. Occupation had a higher impact on working 
life expectancy than country of birth.
CONCLUSION: There are strong indications that many applicants, particularly blue 
collar workers, who had been unable to be granted disability pension under the 
new operational guidelines, instead choose premature retirement, a costly 
alternative for many individuals with already low pension benefits. The results 
indicate a tendency of passing on the societal costs of early labor market exits 
to various economic compensation arrangements, as well as to the individuals 
themselves.

HINTERGRUND: In Schweden besteht eine sozioökonomische Disparität zwischen 
Arbeitern und Angestellten im Hinblick auf das Risiko eines vorzeitigen 
Ausscheidens aus dem Arbeitsleben. Die Erwerbsunfähigkeitsrente ist lange ein 
wesentlicher Grund für das vorzeitige Ausscheiden gewesen.
ZIELSETZUNG: Untersucht werden sollten die Auswirkungen neuer Leitlinien der 
schwedischen Regierung aus dem Jahr 2006, welche die Möglichkeiten, aus 
medizinischen Gründen berentet zu werden, einschränken.
MATERIAL UND METHODEN: Die Studie basierte auf Registerdaten, anhand derer sich 
die Jahre 2006 und 2011 hinsichtlich der Prävalenz von Erwerbsunfähigkeits- und 
vorzeitiger Altersberentung für in verschiedenen Berufen Tätige im Alter 
zwischen 55 und 64 Jahren vergleichen ließ.
ERGEBNISSE: Festgestellt wurde, dass im Jahr 2011 unter den veränderten 
Leitlinien die Anzahl neu genehmigter Erwerbsunfähigkeitsrenten um 70 % gesunken 
war. Frauen waren stärker betroffen als Männer. Der Rückgang der 
Erwerbsunfähigkeitsrenten betraf Antragstellende innerhalb der beiden häufigsten 
Diagnosegruppen: psychische und muskuloskelettale Erkrankungen (Rückgang um 58 
bzw. 87 %). Im gleichen Zeitraum hatte sich der Prozentsatz der Beschäftigten, 
der sich für die vorzeitige Altersrente entschieden hatte, mehr als verdoppelt. 
Mehr Arbeiter als Angestellte hatten sich für eine vorzeitige Altersberentung 
entschieden. Der Beruf hatte höheren Einfluss auf die Erwerbslebensdauer als das 
Geburtsland.
FAZIT: Es gibt deutliche Anhaltspunkte dafür, dass viele Antragstellende, 
insbesondere Arbeiter, die nach den neuen Leitlinien keine 
Erwerbsunfähigkeitsrente erhalten konnten, stattdessen auf den vorzeitigen 
Ruhestand setzen, für viele Menschen mit absehbar niedrigen Rentenleistungen 
eine mit finanziellen Einbußen verbundene Alternative. Diese Ergebnisse deuten 
auf eine Tendenz hin, die gesellschaftlichen Kosten eines frühen Ausscheidens 
aus dem Arbeitsmarkt in unterschiedliche ökonomische 
Entschädigungsvereinbarungen einfließen zu lassen und an die Betroffenen selbst 
weiterzugeben.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-018-01474-3
PMCID: PMC6373384
PMID: 30413944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: R. Kadefors, K. Nilsson, P.‑O. Östergren, 
L. Rylander and M. Albin declare that they have no competing interests.781. Pharmacoeconomics. 2019 Mar;37(3):293-299. doi: 10.1007/s40273-018-0742-2.

Determining Value in Health Technology Assessment: Stay the Course or Tack Away?

Caro JJ(1)(2)(3), Brazier JE(4), Karnon J(5), Kolominsky-Rabas P(6), McGuire 
AJ(7), Nord E(8), Schlander M(9).

Author information:
(1)London School of Economics and Political Science, London, UK. 
j.caro@lse.ac.uk.
(2)Evidera, Waltham, MA, USA. j.caro@lse.ac.uk.
(3), 39 Bypass Road, Lincoln, MA, 01773, USA. j.caro@lse.ac.uk.
(4)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, UK.
(5)School of Public Health, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, Australia.
(6)Interdisciplinary Centre for Health Technology Assessment and Public Health, 
Friedrich-Alexander University of Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany.
(7)London School of Economics and Political Science, London, UK.
(8)Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway.
(9)Division of Health Economics, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), 
University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.

The economic evaluation of new health technologies to assess whether the value 
of the expected health benefits warrants the proposed additional costs has 
become an essential step in making novel interventions available to patients. 
This assessment of value is problematic because there exists no natural means to 
measure it. One approach is to assume that society wishes to maximize aggregate 
health, measured in terms of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Commonly, a 
single 'cost-effectiveness' threshold is used to gauge whether the intervention 
is sufficiently efficient in doing so. This approach has come under fire for 
failing to account for societal values that favor treating more severe illness 
and ensuring equal access to resources, regardless of pre-existing conditions or 
capacity to benefit. Alternatives involving expansion of the measure of benefit 
or adjusting the threshold have been proposed and some have advocated tacking 
away from the cost per QALY entirely to implement therapeutic area-specific 
efficiency frontiers, multicriteria decision analysis or other approaches that 
keep the dimensions of benefit distinct and value them separately. In this 
paper, each of these alternative courses is considered, based on the experiences 
of the authors, with a view to clarifying their implications.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-018-0742-2
PMCID: PMC6386014
PMID: 30414074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: J Jaime Caro, John 
Brazier, Jonathan Karnon, Peter Kolominsky-Rabas, Alistair McGuire, Erik Nord 
and Michael Schlander declare no financial conflicts of interest. All authors 
are well known for their views on the subject matter discussed in this paper. 
OVERALL GUARANTOR: J. Jaime Caro will serve as overall guarantor for this study 
and manuscript. All authors participated in the discussions that led to this 
paper and in the revisions of all drafts. All authors approved the final version 
submitted for publication.


782. Paediatr Respir Rev. 2018 Sep;28:11-17. doi: 10.1016/j.prrv.2018.07.002.
Epub  2018 Jul 12.

Changing respiratory expectations with the new disease trajectory of nusinersen 
treated spinal muscular atrophy [SMA] type 1.

Fitzgerald DA(1), Doumit M(2), Abel F(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, 
Sydney, NSW, Australia; Discipline of Child and Adolescent Health, Sydney 
Medical School, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia. Electronic 
address: dominic.fitzgerald@health.nsw.gov.au.
(2)Department of Physiotherapy, Sydney Children's Hospital, Randwick, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia; School of Women's and Children's Health, University of New South 
Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Great Ormond Street Hospital, London, UK.

Spinal muscular atrophy [SMA] is the most common genetic cause of childhood 
mortality, primarily from the most severe form SMA type 1. It is a severe, 
progressive motor neurone disease, affecting the lower brainstem nuclei and the 
spinal cord. There is a graded level of severity with SMA children from a 
practical viewpoint described as "Non-sitters", "Sitters" and less commonly, 
"Ambulant" correlating with SMA Type 0/Type 1, Type 2 and Type 3 respectively. 
Children with SMA Type 0 have a severe neonatal form whilst those with SMA Type 
1 develop hypoventilation, pulmonary aspiration, recurrent lower respiratory 
tract infections, dysphagia and failure to thrive before usually succumbing to 
respiratory failure and death before the age of 2 years. The recent introduction 
of the antisense oligonucleotide nusinersen into clinical practice in certain 
countries, following limited trials of less than two years duration, has altered 
the treatment landscape and improved the outlook considerably for SMN1 related 
SMA. Approximately 70% of infants appear to have a clinically significant 
response to nusinersen with improved motor function. It appears the earlier the 
treatment is initiated the better the response. There are other rarer genetic 
forms of SMA that are not treated with nusinersen. Clinical expectations will 
change although it is unclear as yet what the extent of response will mean in 
terms of screening initiatives [e.g., newborn screening], "preventative 
strategies" to maintain respiratory wellbeing, timing of introduction of 
respiratory supports, and prolonged life expectancy for the subcategory of 
children with treated SMA type 1. This article provides a review of the 
strategies available for supporting children with respiratory complications of 
SMA, with a particular emphasis on SMA Type 1.

Crown Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prrv.2018.07.002
PMID: 30414815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Ann Thorac Surg. 2019 Apr;107(4):1286. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2018.09.050.  Epub 2018 Nov 8.

Double Burden of Disease: A Global Health Challenge.

Ssebuufu R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Faculty of Clinical Medicine and Dentistry, Kampala 
International University-Western Campus, Ishaka-Bushenyi, PO Box 71, Bushenyi, 
Uganda. Electronic address: rssebuufu@gmail.com.

Comment in
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2019 Apr;107(4):1286.

Comment on
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2018 Nov;106(5):1271-1273.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2018.09.050
PMID: 30414832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. World Neurosurg. 2019 Feb;122:e1052-e1058. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2018.10.226.
Epub  2018 Nov 9.

Surgical Outcomes and Prognostic Factors for Metastatic Spine Hepatocellular 
Carcinoma.

Wang SX(1), Wang HL(1), Lin KY(1), Bian C(1), Sun C(1), Dong J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China. Electronic address: dong.jian@zs-hospital.sh.cn.

BACKGROUND: We evaluated the surgical outcomes of metastatic spine 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and determined the factors that might influence 
the outcomes of metastatic HCC of the spine.
METHODS: From 2010 to 2017, 72 patients with HCC-derived metastatic spine tumors 
were treated in our department. For each patient, we recorded the pre- and 
postoperative visual analog scale score, Frankel grade, perioperative 
complications, and mortality. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to 
explore a range of factors that might influence postoperative survival.
RESULTS: The mean postoperative survival was 10.8 ± 5.4 months. The concordance 
rate between a Tokuhashi score of 0-8 and a life expectancy of <6 months was 
only 19.2%. The mean postoperative survival for patients undergoing excisional 
surgery was 14.7 ± 6.5 months, and the mean survival of those receiving 
palliative surgery was 8.5 ± 2.6 months. Pain had significantly improved in both 
patient groups (P < 0.001). Paralysis did not change significantly in the 
excisional surgery group (P = 0.641) or palliative surgery group (P = 0.912). 
Univariate analysis showed that the preoperative Frankel score, Tomita score, 
Tokuhashi score, blood loss, multilevel metastases, and operative type were 
independent prognostic factors for postoperative survival time. Multivariate 
analysis showed that operation type was an independent factor for prognosis, 
just as were the Tomita score and Tokuhashi score.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results have challenged previously reported estimates of the 
life expectancy correlating with the Tokuhashi score. Our results showed that 
excisional surgery resulted in better clinical outcomes compared with palliative 
surgery.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2018.10.226
PMID: 30415045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Exp Gerontol. 2019 Mar;117:61-71. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2018.11.005. Epub
2018  Nov 9.

Neuron-specific overexpression of core clock genes improves stress-resistance 
and extends lifespan of Drosophila melanogaster.

Solovev I(1), Dobrovolskaya E(2), Shaposhnikov M(2), Sheptyakov M(3), Moskalev 
A(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Radiobiology and Gerontology, Institute of Biology of 
Komi Science Center of Ural Division of Russian Academy of Sciences, Syktyvkar, 
Russia; Department of Ecology, Syktyvkar State University, Syktyvkar, Russia.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular Radiobiology and Gerontology, Institute of Biology of 
Komi Science Center of Ural Division of Russian Academy of Sciences, Syktyvkar, 
Russia.
(3)Laboratory of Genetics of Aging and Longevity, Moscow Institute of Physics 
and Technology, Dolgoprudny, Russia.
(4)Laboratory of Molecular Radiobiology and Gerontology, Institute of Biology of 
Komi Science Center of Ural Division of Russian Academy of Sciences, Syktyvkar, 
Russia; Department of Ecology, Syktyvkar State University, Syktyvkar, Russia; 
Laboratory of Genetics of Aging and Longevity, Moscow Institute of Physics and 
Technology, Dolgoprudny, Russia; Laboratory of Post-Genomic Research, Engelhardt 
Institute of Molecular Biology, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, Russia. 
Electronic address: amoskalev@ib.komisc.ru.

Gene expression is much altered in aging. We observed age-dependent decline of 
core clock genes' expression in the whole body of the fruit fly. We hypothesized 
that inducible overexpression of clock genes (cry, per, tim, cyc and Clk) in the 
nervous system can improve healthspan of D. melanogaster. We studied the 
lifespan of transgenic Drosophila and showed life extension for cry, per, cyc 
and tim genes. It was also the significant positive changes in the 
stress-resistance of flies overexpressing core clock genes in conditions of 
hyperthermia, hyperoxia, starvation and persistent lighting. The overexpression 
of per and cry restore circadian rhythms of locomotor activity. The results 
presented support the hypotheses that the compensation of circadian oscillator 
genes expression can improve the healthspan in Drosophila melanogaster.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2018.11.005
PMID: 30415070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Injury. 2018 Nov;49 Suppl 3:S77-S83. doi: 10.1016/j.injury.2018.09.044.

Treatment of pathologic fractures of the proximal femur.

Angelini A(1), Trovarelli G(1), Berizzi A(1), Pala E(1), Breda A(1), Maraldi 
M(1), Ruggieri P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics and Orthopedic Oncology, University of Padova, 
Italy.
(2)Department of Orthopedics and Orthopedic Oncology, University of Padova, 
Italy. Electronic address: pietro.ruggieri@unipd.it.

BACKGROUND: Metastatic lesions to the proximal femur occur frequently and 
require special consideration due to the high risk of pathologic fractures. Type 
of surgery might influence patient survival considering the growing concept of 
oligometastases. In fact, the use of modular tumor megaprosthesis is increasing 
in the last decades compared to intramedullary nailing. Aim of this study was to 
evaluate oncological and functional results of treatment in patients with 
pathologic or impending fracture of the proximal femur, with patient survival 
being the primary, complications the secondary, and functional results the 
tertiary endpoint.
METHODS: Between 2016 and 2017, 40 patients with pathologic fracture (29 cases) 
or impending fracture according to the Mirels score (11 cases) of the proximal 
femur, were treated in our Institute and prospectively collected. There were 29 
females (72.5%) and 11 males (27.5%), with a mean age at diagnosis of the 
metastasis of 63.6 years (range 35 to 92 years). Patients were treated due to 
bone metastases (commonly develop from breast cancer) or hematologic 
malignancies. Considering number of lesions, 17 patients had less than three 
bone metastases. Surgical procedures included intramedullary nailing (7 
patients), conventional endoprosthesis (4 patients) and modular endoprosthetic 
replacement (29 patients). Adjuvant treatments included chemotherapy (13 cases), 
radiation therapy (8 cases) or both (15 cases), and selective arterial 
embolization (6 pre-op). Oncological results were evaluated considering the 
survival of patients. Functional results were assessed as pain intensity in VAS 
score and MSTS score.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up of patients was 10.2 months (range 6-26.3 years). At 
the latest evaluation, 23 patients were alive with disease, 3 patients were 
alive without evidence of disease and 14 patients were dead with disease. There 
was a significant better survival in patients treated with PFR compared to IMN 
and EPR groups (p = 0.0080). No differences in term of survival were found 
comparing impending vs actual pathological fracture and oligo vs multiple 
metastases. After surgery, all patients experienced improvement in quality of 
life resulting from reduction in pain. Mean MSTS score was 22.4. The overall 
complications rate was 22.5%. The most frequent complication was dislocation 
followed by wound dehiscence and deep infections.
CONCLUSION: Modular tumour prosthesis for proximal femur replacement provides 
good functional outcome, relative low incidence of complications and higher life 
quality in the medium term. Oncologic results were influenced by type of 
surgery, biased by the correct indications for resection and nailing. 
Preoperative general health condition, life expectancy and ambulatory capacity 
may influence treatment strategy. With the numbers available, the patients with 
actual pathologic or impending fracture of the proximal femur treated with 
resection had a significantly higher survival, especially those with metastases 
from renal carcinoma or multiple myeloma.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.injury.2018.09.044
PMID: 30415673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Lancet. 2018 Nov 10;392(10159):1683. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(18)32858-7.

GBD 2017: a fragile world.

The Lancet.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2018 Nov 10;392(10159):1859-1922.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(18)32858-7
PMID: 30415747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Lancet. 2018 Nov 10;392(10159):1859-1922. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(18)32335-3.

Global, regional, and national disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) for 359 
diseases and injuries and healthy life expectancy (HALE) for 195 countries and 
territories, 1990-2017: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease 
Study 2017.

GBD 2017 DALYs and HALE Collaborators.

Collaborators: Kyu HH, Abate D, Abate KH, Abay SM, Abbafati C, Abbasi N, 
Abbastabar H, Abd-Allah F, Abdela J, Abdelalim A, Abdollahpour I, Abdulkader RS, 
Abebe M, Abebe Z, Abil OZ, Aboyans V, Abrham AR, Abu-Raddad LJ, Abu-Rmeileh NME, 
Accrombessi MMK, Acharya D, Acharya P, Ackerman IN, Adamu AA, Adebayo OM, 
Adekanmbi V, Ademi Z, Adetokunboh OO, Adib MG, Adsuar JC, Afanvi KA, Afarideh M, 
Afshin A, Agarwal G, Agesa KM, Aggarwal R, Aghayan SA, Agrawal A, Ahmadi A, 
Ahmadi M, Ahmadieh H, Ahmed MB, Ahmed S, Aichour AN, Aichour I, Aichour MTE, 
Akinyemiju T, Akseer N, Al-Aly Z, Al-Eyadhy A, Al-Mekhlafi HM, Al-Raddadi RM, 
Alahdab F, Alam K, Alam T, Alashi A, Alavian SM, Alene KA, Alijanzadeh M, 
Alizadeh-Navaei R, Aljunid SM, Alkerwi A, Alla F, Allebeck P, Alonso J, Alsharif 
U, Altirkawi K, Alvis-Guzman N, Aminde LN, Amini E, Amiresmaili M, Ammar W, 
Amoako YA, Anber NH, Andrei CL, Androudi S, Animut MD, Anjomshoa M, Ansha MG, 
Antonio CAT, Anwari P, Arabloo J, Aremu O, Ärnlöv J, Arora A, Arora M, Artaman 
A, Aryal KK, Asayesh H, Ataro Z, Ausloos M, Avila-Burgos L, Avokpaho EFGA, 
Awasthi A, Ayala Quintanilla BP, Ayer R, Azzopardi PS, Babazadeh A, Badali H, 
Balakrishnan K, Bali AG, Banach M, Banoub JAM, Barac A, Barboza MA, Barker-Collo 
SL, Bärnighausen TW, Barquera S, Barrero LH, Bazargan-Hejazi S, Bedi N, Beghi E, 
Behzadifar M, Behzadifar M, Bekele BB, Bekru ET, Belachew AB, Belay YA, Bell ML, 
Bello AK, Bennett DA, Bensenor IM, Berhane A, Bernabe E, Bernstein RS, Beuran M, 
Beyranvand T, Bhala N, Bhatt S, Bhaumik S, Bhutta ZA, Biadgo B, Biehl MH, Bijani 
A, Bikbov B, Bilano V, Bililign N, Bin Sayeed MS, Bisanzio D, Bjørge T, Bleyer 
A, Bobasa EM, Bou-Orm IR, Boufous S, Bourne R, Brady OJ, Brant LC, Brayne C, 
Brazinova A, Breitborde NJK, Brenner H, Briant PS, Briko AN, Britton G, Brugha 
T, Buchbinder R, Busse R, Butt ZA, Cahuana-Hurtado L, Campuzano Rincon JC, Cano 
J, Cárdenas R, Carrero JJ, Carter A, Carvalho F, Castañeda-Orjuela CA, Castillo 
Rivas J, Castro F, Catalá-López F, Cercy KM, Cerin E, Chaiah Y, Chang JC, 
Charlson FJ, Chattu VK, Chiang PP, Chitheer A, Choi JJ, Christensen H, 
Christopher DJ, Chung SC, Cicuttini FM, Cirillo M, Collado-Mateo D, Cooper C, 
Cortesi PA, Cortinovis M, Cousin E, Criqui MH, Cromwell EA, Cross M, Crump JA, 
Daba AK, Dachew BA, Dadi AF, Dandona L, Dandona R, Dargan PI, Daryani A, Das 
Gupta R, Das Neves J, Dasa TT, Davitoiu DV, De La Hoz FP, De Leo D, De Neve JW, 
De Steur H, Degefa MG, Degenhardt L, Deiparine S, Demoz GT, Denova-Gutiérrez E, 
Deribe K, Dervenis N, Des Jarlais DC, Dey S, Dharmaratne SD, Dhimal M, Dinberu 
MT, Dirac MA, Djalalinia S, Doan L, Dokova K, Doku DT, Dorsey ER, Doyle KE, 
Driscoll TR, Dubey M, Dubljanin E, Duken EE, Duncan BB, Duraes AR, Ebrahimi H, 
Ebrahimpour S, Echko MM, Edessa D, Edvardsson D, Effiong A, Eggen AE, Ehrlich 
JR, El Bcheraoui C, El-Khatib Z, Elyazar IRF, Enayati A, Endalifer ML, Endries 
AY, Er B, Erskine HE, Eskandarieh S, Esteghamati A, Esteghamati S, Fakhim H, 
Faramarzi M, Fareed M, Farhadi F, Farid TA, Farinha CSES, Farioli A, Faro A, 
Farzadfar F, Fazaeli AA, Feigin VL, Fentahun N, Fereshtehnejad SM, Fernandes E, 
Fernandes JC, Ferrari AJ, Ferreira ML, Filip I, Fischer F, Fitzmaurice C, Foigt 
NA, Foreman KJ, Frank TD, Fukumoto T, Fullman N, Fürst T, Furtado JM, Gakidou E, 
Gall S, Gallus S, Ganji M, Garcia-Basteiro AL, Gardner WM, Gebre AK, Gebremedhin 
AT, Gebremichael TG, Gelano TF, Geleijnse JM, Genova-Maleras R, Geramo YCD, 
Gething PW, Gezae KE, Ghadami MR, Ghadiri K, Ghasemi-Kasman M, Ghimire M, 
Ghoshal AG, Gill PS, Gill TK, Ginawi IA, Giussani G, Gnedovskaya EV, Goldberg 
EM, Goli S, Gómez-Dantés H, Gona PN, Gopalani SV, Gorman TM, Goulart AC, Goulart 
BNG, Grada A, Grosso G, Gugnani HC, Guillemin F, Guo Y, Gupta PC, Gupta R, Gupta 
R, Gupta T, Gutiérrez RA, Gyawali B, Haagsma JA, Hachinski V, Hafezi-Nejad N, 
Haghparast Bidgoli H, Hagos TB, Hailegiyorgis TT, Haj-Mirzaian A, Haj-Mirzaian 
A, Hamadeh RR, Hamidi S, Handal AJ, Hankey GJ, Hao Y, Harb HL, Harikrishnan S, 
Haririan H, Haro JM, Hassankhani H, Hassen HY, Havmoeller R, Hay RJ, Hay SI, 
Hedayatizadeh-Omran A, Heibati B, Hendrie D, Henok A, Heredia-Pi I, Herteliu C, 
Heydarpour F, Heydarpour P, Hibstu DT, Hoek HW, Hoffman HJ, Hole MK, Homaie Rad 
E, Hoogar P, Hosgood HD, Hosseini SM, Hosseinzadeh M, Hostiuc M, Hostiuc S, 
Hotez PJ, Hoy DG, Hsairi M, Htet AS, Huang JJ, Iburg KM, Ikeda CT, Ilesanmi OS, 
Irvani SSN, Irvine CMS, Islam SMS, Islami F, Jacobsen KH, Jahangiry L, Jahanmehr 
N, Jain SK, Jakovljevic M, James SL, Jayatilleke AU, Jeemon P, Jha RP, Jha V, Ji 
JS, Johnson CO, Jonas JB, Jonnagaddala J, Jorjoran Shushtari Z, Joshi A, Jozwiak 
JJ, Jungari SB, Jürisson M, Kabir Z, Kadel R, Kahsay A, Kalani R, Kanchan T, Kar 
C, Karami M, Karami Matin B, Karch A, Karema C, Karimi N, Karimi SM, Kasaeian A, 
Kassa DH, Kassa GM, Kassa TD, Kassebaum NJ, Katikireddi SV, Kaul A, Kawakami N, 
Kazemi Z, Karyani AK, Keighobadi MM, Keiyoro PN, Kemmer L, Kemp GR, Kengne AP, 
Keren A, Khader YS, Khafaei B, Khafaie MA, Khajavi A, Khalid N, Khalil IA, Khan 
EA, Khan MS, Khan MA, Khang YH, Khater MM, Khazaei M, Khoja AT, Khosravi A, 
Khosravi MH, Kiadaliri AA, Kidanemariam ZT, Kiirithio DN, Kim CI, Kim D, Kim YE, 
Kim YJ, Kimokoti RW, Kinfu Y, Kisa A, Kissimova-Skarbek K, Knudsen AKS, Kocarnik 
JM, Kochhar S, Kokubo Y, Kolola T, Kopec JA, Kosen S, Kotsakis GA, Koul PA, 
Koyanagi A, Krishan K, Krishnaswami S, Krohn KJ, Kuate Defo B, Kucuk Bicer B, 
Kumar GA, Kumar M, Kuzin I, Lad DP, Lad SD, Lafranconi A, Lalloo R, Lallukka T, 
Lami FH, Lang JJ, Langan SM, Lansingh VC, Latifi A, Lau KM, Lazarus JV, Leasher 
JL, Ledesma JR, Lee PH, Leigh J, Leili M, Leshargie CT, Leung J, Levi M, Lewycka 
S, Li S, Li Y, Liang X, Liao Y, Liben ML, Lim LL, Lim SS, Limenih MA, Linn S, 
Liu S, Looker KJ, Lopez AD, Lorkowski S, Lotufo PA, Lozano R, Lucas TCD, 
Lunevicius R, Lyons RA, Ma S, Macarayan ERK, Mackay MT, Maddison ER, Madotto F, 
Maghavani DP, Mai HT, Majdan M, Majdzadeh R, Majeed A, Malekzadeh R, Malta DC, 
Mamun AA, Manda AL, Manguerra H, Mansournia MA, Mantilla Herrera AM, Mantovani 
LG, Maravilla JC, Marcenes W, Marks A, Martins-Melo FR, Martopullo I, März W, 
Marzan MB, Massano J, Massenburg BB, Mathur MR, Maulik PK, Mazidi M, McAlinden 
C, McGrath JJ, McKee M, McMahon BJ, Mehata S, Mehrotra R, Mehta KM, Mehta V, 
Mejia-Rodriguez F, Mekonen T, Melese A, Melku M, Memiah PTN, Memish ZA, Mendoza 
W, Mengistu G, Mensah GA, Mereta ST, Meretoja A, Meretoja TJ, Mestrovic T, 
Miazgowski B, Miazgowski T, Millear AI, Miller TR, Mini GK, Mirarefin M, Mirica 
A, Mirrakhimov EM, Misganaw AT, Mitchell PB, Mitiku H, Moazen B, Mohajer B, 
Mohammad KA, Mohammadi M, Mohammadifard N, Mohammadnia-Afrouzi M, Mohammed MA, 
Mohammed S, Mohebi F, Mokdad AH, Molokhia M, Monasta L, Montañez JC, Moosazadeh 
M, Moradi G, Moradi M, Moradi-Lakeh M, Moradinazar M, Moraga P, Morawska L, 
Moreno Velásquez I, Morgado-Da-Costa J, Morrison SD, Moschos MM, Mousavi SM, 
Mruts KB, Muche AA, Muchie KF, Mueller UO, Muhammed OS, Mukhopadhyay S, Muller 
K, Mumford JE, Murthy GVS, Musa KI, Mustafa G, Nabhan AF, Nagata C, Nagel G, 
Naghavi M, Naheed A, Nahvijou A, Naik G, Najafi F, Nam HS, Nangia V, Nansseu JR, 
Neamati N, Negoi I, Negoi RI, Neupane S, Newton CRJ, Ngunjiri JW, Nguyen AQ, 
Nguyen G, Nguyen HT, Nguyen HLT, Nguyen HT, Nguyen LH, Nguyen M, Nguyen NB, 
Nguyen SH, Nichols E, Ningrum DNA, Nixon MR, Nomura S, Noroozi M, Norrving B, 
Noubiap JJ, Nouri HR, Shiadeh MN, Nowroozi MR, Nsoesie EO, Nyasulu PS, Odell CM, 
Ofori-Asenso R, Ogbo FA, Oh IH, Oladimeji O, Olagunju AT, Olagunju TO, Olivares 
PR, Olsen HE, Olusanya BO, Olusanya JO, Ong KL, Ong SK, Oren E, Ortiz A, Ota E, 
Otstavnov SS, Øverland S, Owolabi MO, P A M, Pacella R, Pakhare AP, Pakpour AH, 
Pana A, Panda-Jonas S, Park EK, Park J, Parry CDH, Parsian H, Pasdar Y, Patel S, 
Patil ST, Patle A, Patton GC, Paturi VR, Paudel D, Paulson KR, Pearce N, Pereira 
A, Pereira DM, Perico N, Pesudovs K, Petzold M, Pham HQ, Phillips MR, Pigott DM, 
Pillay JD, Piradov MA, Pirsaheb M, Pishgar F, Plana-Ripoll O, Polinder S, Popova 
S, Postma MJ, Pourshams A, Poustchi H, Prabhakaran D, Prakash S, Prakash V, 
Prasad N, Purcell CA, Qorbani M, Quistberg DA, Radfar A, Rafay A, Rafiei A, 
Rahim F, Rahimi K, Rahimi Z, Rahimi-Movaghar A, Rahimi-Movaghar V, Rahman M, 
Rahman MHU, Rahman MA, Rahman SU, Rai RK, Rajati F, Ranjan P, Rao PC, Rasella D, 
Rawaf DL, Rawaf S, Reddy KS, Reiner RC, Reitsma MB, Remuzzi G, Renzaho AMN, 
Resnikoff S, Rezaei S, Rezai MS, Ribeiro ALP, Roberts NLS, Robinson SR, Roever 
L, Ronfani L, Roshandel G, Rostami A, Roth GA, Rothenbacher D, Rubagotti E, 
Sachdev PS, Sadat N, Sadeghi E, Saeedi Moghaddam S, Safari H, Safari Y, 
Safari-Faramani R, Safdarian M, Safi S, Safiri S, Sagar R, Sahebkar A, Sahraian 
MA, Sajadi HS, Salam N, Salama JS, Salamati P, Saleem Z, Salimi Y, Salimzadeh H, 
Salomon JA, Salvi SS, Salz I, Samy AM, Sanabria J, Sanchez-Niño MD, Santomauro 
DF, Santos IS, Santos JV, Santric Milicevic MM, Sao Jose BP, Sardana M, Sarker 
AR, Sarmiento-Suárez R, Sarrafzadegan N, Sartorius B, Sarvi S, Sathian B, 
Satpathy M, Sawant AR, Sawhney M, Saxena S, Schaeffner E, Schmidt MI, Schneider 
IJC, Schutte AE, Schwebel DC, Schwendicke F, Scott JG, Sekerija M, Sepanlou SG, 
Serván-Mori E, Seyedmousavi S, Shabaninejad H, Shafieesabet A, Shahbazi M, 
Shaheen AA, Shaikh MA, Shams-Beyranvand M, Shamsi M, Sharafi H, Sharafi K, 
Sharif M, Sharif-Alhoseini M, Sharma J, Sharma R, She J, Sheikh A, Shi P, 
Shibuya K, Shiferaw MS, Shigematsu M, Shiri R, Shirkoohi R, Shiue I, Shokoohinia 
Y, Shokraneh F, Shoman H, Shrime MG, Si S, Siabani S, Sibai AM, Siddiqi TJ, 
Sigfusdottir ID, Sigurvinsdottir R, Silva DAS, Silva JP, Silveira DGA, Singam 
NSV, Singh JA, Singh NP, Singh V, Sinha DN, Skiadaresi E, Skirbekk V, Sliwa K, 
Smith DL, Smith M, Soares Filho AM, Sobaih BH, Sobhani S, Soofi M, Sorensen RJD, 
Soyiri IN, Sposato LA, Sreeramareddy CT, Srinivasan V, Stanaway JD, Starodubov 
VI, Stein DJ, Steiner C, Steiner TJ, Stokes MA, Stovner LJ, Subart ML, 
Sudaryanto A, Sufiyan MB, Sulo G, Sunguya BF, Sur PJ, Sykes BL, Sylaja PN, Sylte 
DO, Szoeke CEI, Tabarés-Seisdedos R, Tabuchi T, Tadakamadla SK, Tandon N, Tassew 
SG, Tavakkoli M, Taveira N, Taylor HR, Tehrani-Banihashemi A, Tekalign TG, 
Tekelemedhin SW, Tekle MG, Temsah MH, Temsah O, Terkawi AS, Tessema B, 
Teweldemedhin M, Thankappan KR, Theis A, Thirunavukkarasu S, Thomas N, Tilahun 
B, To QG, Tonelli M, Topor-Madry R, Torre AE, Tortajada-Girbés M, Touvier M, 
Tovani-Palone MR, Towbin JA, Tran BX, Tran KB, Troeger CE, Tsadik AG, Tsoi D, 
Tudor Car L, Tyrovolas S, Ukwaja KN, Ullah I, Undurraga EA, Updike RL, Usman MS, 
Uthman OA, Vaduganathan M, Vaezi A, Valdez PR, Varavikova E, Varughese S, 
Vasankari TJ, Venketasubramanian N, Villafaina S, Violante FS, Vladimirov SK, 
Vlassov V, Vollset SE, Vos T, Vosoughi K, Vujcic IS, Wagnew FS, Waheed Y, Wang 
Y, Wang YP, Weiderpass E, Weintraub RG, Weiss DJ, Weldegebreal F, Weldegwergs 
KG, Werdecker A, West TE, Westerman R, Whiteford HA, Widecka J, Wijeratne T, 
Williams HC, Wilner LB, Wilson S, Winkler AS, Wiyeh AB, Wiysonge CS, Wolfe CDA, 
Woolf AD, Wyper GMA, Xavier D, Xu G, Yadgir S, Yahyazadeh Jabbari SH, Yamada T, 
Yan LL, Yano Y, Yaseri M, Yasin YJ, Yeshaneh A, Yimer EM, Yip P, Yisma E, 
Yonemoto N, Yoon SJ, Yotebieng M, Younis MZ, Yousefifard M, Yu C, Zadnik V, 
Zaidi Z, Zaman SB, Zamani M, Zandian H, Zar HJ, Zenebe ZM, Zhou M, Zipkin B, 
Zodpey S, Zucker I, Zuhlke LJ, Murray CJL.

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2019 Jun 22;393(10190):e44.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2018 Nov 10;392(10159):1683.
    Lancet Psychiatry. 2019 Jan;6(1):1.

BACKGROUND: How long one lives, how many years of life are spent in good and 
poor health, and how the population's state of health and leading causes of 
disability change over time all have implications for policy, planning, and 
provision of services. We comparatively assessed the patterns and trends of 
healthy life expectancy (HALE), which quantifies the number of years of life 
expected to be lived in good health, and the complementary measure of 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs), a composite measure of disease burden 
capturing both premature mortality and prevalence and severity of ill health, 
for 359 diseases and injuries for 195 countries and territories over the past 28 
years.
METHODS: We used data for age-specific mortality rates, years of life lost 
(YLLs) due to premature mortality, and years lived with disability (YLDs) from 
the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD) 2017 to 
calculate HALE and DALYs from 1990 to 2017. We calculated HALE using 
age-specific mortality rates and YLDs per capita for each location, age, sex, 
and year. We calculated DALYs for 359 causes as the sum of YLLs and YLDs. We 
assessed how observed HALE and DALYs differed by country and sex from expected 
trends based on Socio-demographic Index (SDI). We also analysed HALE by 
decomposing years of life gained into years spent in good health and in poor 
health, between 1990 and 2017, and extra years lived by females compared with 
males.
FINDINGS: Globally, from 1990 to 2017, life expectancy at birth increased by 7·4 
years (95% uncertainty interval 7·1-7·8), from 65·6 years (65·3-65·8) in 1990 to 
73·0 years (72·7-73·3) in 2017. The increase in years of life varied from 5·1 
years (5·0-5·3) in high SDI countries to 12·0 years (11·3-12·8) in low SDI 
countries. Of the additional years of life expected at birth, 26·3% (20·1-33·1) 
were expected to be spent in poor health in high SDI countries compared with 
11·7% (8·8-15·1) in low-middle SDI countries. HALE at birth increased by 6·3 
years (5·9-6·7), from 57·0 years (54·6-59·1) in 1990 to 63·3 years (60·5-65·7) 
in 2017. The increase varied from 3·8 years (3·4-4·1) in high SDI countries to 
10·5 years (9·8-11·2) in low SDI countries. Even larger variations in HALE than 
these were observed between countries, ranging from 1·0 year (0·4-1·7) in Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines (62·4 years [59·9-64·7] in 1990 to 63·5 years 
[60·9-65·8] in 2017) to 23·7 years (21·9-25·6) in Eritrea (30·7 years 
[28·9-32·2] in 1990 to 54·4 years [51·5-57·1] in 2017). In most countries, the 
increase in HALE was smaller than the increase in overall life expectancy, 
indicating more years lived in poor health. In 180 of 195 countries and 
territories, females were expected to live longer than males in 2017, with extra 
years lived varying from 1·4 years (0·6-2·3) in Algeria to 11·9 years 
(10·9-12·9) in Ukraine. Of the extra years gained, the proportion spent in poor 
health varied largely across countries, with less than 20% of additional years 
spent in poor health in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burundi, and Slovakia, whereas 
in Bahrain all the extra years were spent in poor health. In 2017, the highest 
estimate of HALE at birth was in Singapore for both females (75·8 years 
[72·4-78·7]) and males (72·6 years [69·8-75·0]) and the lowest estimates were in 
Central African Republic (47·0 years [43·7-50·2] for females and 42·8 years 
[40·1-45·6] for males). Globally, in 2017, the five leading causes of DALYs were 
neonatal disorders, ischaemic heart disease, stroke, lower respiratory 
infections, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Between 1990 and 2017, 
age-standardised DALY rates decreased by 41·3% (38·8-43·5) for communicable 
diseases and by 49·8% (47·9-51·6) for neonatal disorders. For non-communicable 
diseases, global DALYs increased by 40·1% (36·8-43·0), although age-standardised 
DALY rates decreased by 18·1% (16·0-20·2).
INTERPRETATION: With increasing life expectancy in most countries, the question 
of whether the additional years of life gained are spent in good health or poor 
health has been increasingly relevant because of the potential policy 
implications, such as health-care provisions and extending retirement ages. In 
some locations, a large proportion of those additional years are spent in poor 
health. Large inequalities in HALE and disease burden exist across countries in 
different SDI quintiles and between sexes. The burden of disabling conditions 
has serious implications for health system planning and health-related 
expenditures. Despite the progress made in reducing the burden of communicable 
diseases and neonatal disorders in low SDI countries, the speed of this progress 
could be increased by scaling up proven interventions. The global trends among 
non-communicable diseases indicate that more effort is needed to maximise HALE, 
such as risk prevention and attention to upstream determinants of health.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(18)32335-3
PMCID: PMC6252083
PMID: 30415748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests Carl Abelardo Antonio 
reports personal fees from Johnson & Johnson (Philippines). Cyrus Cooper reports 
personal fees from Alliance for Better Bone Health, Amgen, Eli Lilly, 
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), Medtronic, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, Servier, 
Takeda, and UCB. Louisa Degenhardt reports grants from Indivior, Mundipharma, 
and Seqirus. Seana Gall reports grants from the National Health and Medical 
Research Council and the National Heart Foundation of Australia. Panniyammakal 
Jeemon reports a Clinical and Public Health Intermediate Fellowship from the 
Wellcome Trust-DBT India Alliance (2015–20). Jacek Jóźwiak reports a grant from 
Valeant; personal fees from Valeant, ALAB Laboratoria, and Amgen; and 
non-financial support from Microlife and Servier. Nicholas Kassebaum reports 
personal fees and other support from Vifor Pharmaceuticals. Srinivasa Vittal 
Katikireddi reports grants from UK NHS Research Scotland (SCAF/15/02), UK 
Medical Research Council (MC_UU_12017/13 and MC_UU_12017/15), and the Scottish 
Government Chief Scientist Office (SPHSU13 and SPHSU15). Jeffrey Lazarus reports 
personal fees from Janssen and Cepheid, and grants and personal fees from 
AbbVie, Gilead Sciences, and MSD. Stefan Lorkowski reports personal fees from 
Amgen, Berlin-Chemie, MSD Sharp & Dohme, Novo Nordisk, Sanofi-Aventis, Synlab, 
and Unilever; and non-financial support from Preventicus. Winfried März reports 
grants and personal fees from Siemens Diagnostics, Aegerion Pharmaceuticals, 
Amgen, AstraZeneca, Danone Research, Pfizer, BASF, Numares AG, and 
Berline-Chemie; personal fees from Hoffmann LaRoche, MSD, Sanofi, and Synageva; 
grants from Abbott Diagnostics; and other from Synlab Holding Deutschland GmbH. 
Walter Mendoza is currently a Program Analyst for Population and Development at 
the Peru Country Office of the United Nations Population Fund-UNFPA, which does 
not necessarily endorse this study. Ted Miller reports an evaluation contract 
from AB InBev Foundation. Maarten Postma reports grants from Mundipharma, Bayer, 
BMS, AstraZeneca, Arteg, and AscA; grants and personal fees from Sigma Tau, MSD, 
GSK, Pfizer, Boehringer Ingelheim, Novavax, Ingress Health, AbbVie, and Sanofi; 
personal fees from Quintiles, Astellas, Mapi, OptumInsight, Novartis, Swedish 
Orphan, Innoval, Janssen, Intercept, and Pharmerit; and stock ownership in 
Ingress Health and Pharmacoeconomics Advice Groningen. Kazem Rahimi reports 
grants from National Institute for Health Research Biomedical Research Centres, 
the Economic and Social Research Council, and Oxford Martin School. Kenji 
Shibuya reports grants from the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare, Japan, 
and from the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology, 
Japan. Mark Shrime reports grants from Mercy Ships and Damon Runyon Cancer 
Research Foundation. Jasvinder Singh reports consulting for Horizon, Fidia, UBM, 
Medscape, WebMD, the National Institutes of Health, and the American College of 
Rheumatology; they serve as the principal investigator for an 
investigator-initiated study funded by Horizon pharmaceuticals through a grant 
to Dinora, a 501c3 entity; they are on the steering committee of OMERACT. 
Jeffrey Stanaway reports a grant from Merck. Cassandra Szoeke reports a grant 
from the National Medical Health Research Council, Lundbeck, Alzheimer’s 
Association, and the Royal Australasian College of Practicioners; and she holds 
patent PCT/AU2008/001556. Muthiah Vaduganathan receives research support from 
the US National Institute of Health National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute 
and serves as a consultant for Bayer AG and Baxter Healthcare. Denis Xavier 
reports grants from Cadila Pharmaceuticals, Boehringer Ingelheim, Sanofi 
Aventis, Pfizer, and Bristol-Myers Squibb.


789. Lancet Psychiatry. 2018 Dec;5(12):1023-1031. doi:
10.1016/S2215-0366(18)30388-2.  Epub 2018 Nov 8.

Cost-effectiveness of care for people with psychosis in the community and 
psychiatric hospitals in the Czech Republic: an economic analysis.

Winkler P(1), Koeser L(2), Kondrátová L(3), Broulíková HM(4), Páv M(5), Kališová 
L(5), Barrett B(2), McCrone P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health, 
Klecany, Czech Republic; Health Service and Population Research Department, 
Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College London, UK. 
Electronic address: petr.winkler@nudz.cz.
(2)Health Service and Population Research Department, Institute of Psychiatry, 
Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College London, UK.
(3)Department of Social Psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health, 
Klecany, Czech Republic.
(4)Department of Social Psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health, 
Klecany, Czech Republic; Faculty of Informatics and Statistics, University of 
Economics, Prague, Czech Republic.
(5)Psychiatric Clinic, First Faculty of Medicine, Charles University, Prague, 
Czech Republic.

Comment in
    Lancet Psychiatry. 2018 Dec;5(12):950-952.

BACKGROUND: The absence of economic evidence hinders current reforms of 
hospital-based mental health systems in central and eastern Europe. We aimed to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of discharge to community care for people with 
chronic psychoses compared with care in psychiatric hospitals in the Czech 
Republic.
METHODS: We did a prospective study of people aged 18-64 years with chronic 
psychotic disorders in the Czech Republic who had been discharged into community 
services or were receiving inpatient psychiatric care for at least 3 months at 
baseline. We measured health-related quality of life with the EuroQol 
five-dimension five-level questionnaire. Adjusting for baseline differences 
between the two groups, we assessed differences in societal costs in 2016 and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) during a 12-month follow-up, which we then 
used to estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). We did 
multiple sensitivity analyses to assess the robustness of our results.
FINDINGS: In our baseline case scenario, we included 115 patients who were 
either community service users (n=35) or inpatients (n=80) at baseline. The two 
groups were similar in terms of baseline characteristics. The annual QALY was 
0·77 in patients receiving community care at baseline compared with 0·80 in 
patients in hospital at baseline (difference 0·03, 95% CI -0·04 to 0·10), but 
the costs of discharge to the community were €8503 compared with €16 425 for no 
discharge (difference €7922, 95% CI 4497-11 346), such that the ICER reached 
more than €250 000 per QALY. This ICER is substantially higher than levels that 
are conventionally considered to be cost-effective and the estimated probability 
that discharge to the community was cost-effective was very high (≥97%). None of 
the sensitivity analyses changed these results qualitatively.
INTERPRETATION: This study provides economic evidence for deinstitutionalisation 
by showing that discharge to community care is cost-effective compared with care 
in psychiatric hospitals in the Czech Republic. These findings add to the human 
rights and clinical-based arguments for mental health-care reforms in central 
and eastern Europe.
FUNDING: Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic; EEA and 
Norway Grants.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2215-0366(18)30388-2
PMID: 30415938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. J Visc Surg. 2019 Feb;156(1):37-44. doi: 10.1016/j.jviscsurg.2018.10.003.
Epub  2018 Nov 8.

The vision and role of geriatric oncology in surgical treatment of the elderly 
patient.

Bouras AF(1), Ioos E(2), Aoudia A(3), Kaci H(4), Benaibouche D(4), Merad-Boudia 
F(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculté de médecine d'Alger, Université Benyoucef Benkhedda, Alger 1, 
Algeria; Chirurgie générale et digestive, CHU Lamine Debaghine, boulevard Saïd 
Touati, Bab El Oued, Alger, 16000, Algeria. Electronic address: 
afouadbouras@gmail.com.
(2)Médecine polyvalente et gériatrie, centre hospitalier Germon-et-Gauthier, 
62408 Béthune, France.
(3)Clinique de psychiatrie, hôpital Fontan II, CHRU Lille, 59000 Lille, France.
(4)Faculté de médecine d'Alger, Université Benyoucef Benkhedda, Alger 1, 
Algeria; Chirurgie générale et digestive, CHU Lamine Debaghine, boulevard Saïd 
Touati, Bab El Oued, Alger, 16000, Algeria.

The phenomenon of population aging is constantly on the rise, as are the medical 
needs of elderly subjects. Oncological treatment concerns an ever larger number 
of elderly patients, raising a number of not only practical and medical 
questions, but also the ethical interrogations associated with therapeutic 
decision-making, quality of life and therapeutic obstinacy (futile medical 
care). Surgeons are increasingly preoccupied by elderly patients on account of 
the cancer rate among them, and they are compelled to cope with challenges such 
as morbimortality and prolonged hospitalization. Geriatric oncology is a 
discipline of increasing importance of which the goal consists in comprehensive 
care of the elderly cancer patient, care taking into full account his physical 
and psychological aging, his somatic and cognitive comorbidities, and, last but 
least, his life expectancy. The opinions and recommendations of geriatric 
oncologists provide increasingly more orientation for the oncological 
therapeutic decision-making processes. The objective of this attempt at 
clarification is to discuss the contributions of this discipline to everyday 
surgical activity, to provide surgeons with some tools facilitating initial 
evaluation of their patients, and to remind the reader of situations in which 
oncological assistance is of paramount importance.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviscsurg.2018.10.003
PMID: 30416005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Parkinsons Dis. 2018 Oct 17;2018:7806574. doi: 10.1155/2018/7806574.
eCollection  2018.

Association between Objectively Measured Physical Activity and Gait Patterns in 
People with Parkinson's Disease: Results from a 3-Month Monitoring.

Porta M(1), Pilloni G(1), Pili R(2), Casula C(2), Murgia M(3), Cossu G(2), Pau 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical, Chemical and Materials Engineering, University of 
Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy.
(2)A.O.B. "G. Brotzu" General Hospital, Cagliari, Italy.
(3)Department of Life Sciences, University of Trieste, Trieste, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Although physical activity (PA) is known to be beneficial in 
improving motor symptoms of people with Parkinson's disease (pwPD), little is 
known about the relationship between gait patterns and features of PA performed 
during daily life.
OBJECTIVE: To verify the existence of possible relationships between 
spatiotemporal and kinematic parameters of gait and amount/intensity of PA, both 
instrumentally assessed.
METHODS: Eighteen individuals affected by PD (10F and 8M, age 68.0 ± 10.8 years, 
1.5 ≤ Hoehn and Yahr (H&Y) < 3) were required to wear a triaxial accelerometer 
24 h/day for 3 consecutive months. They also underwent a 3D computerized gait 
analysis at the beginning and end of the PA assessment period. The number of 
daily steps and PA intensity were calculated on the whole day, and the period 
from 6:00 to 24:00 was grouped into 3 time slots, using 3 different cut-point 
sets previously validated in the case of both pwPD and healthy older adults. 3D 
gait analysis provided spatiotemporal and kinematic parameters of gait, 
including summary indexes of quality (Gait Profile Score (GPS) and Gait Variable 
Score (GVS)).
RESULTS: The analysis of hourly trends of PA revealed the existence of two peaks 
located in the morning (approximately at 10) and in the early evening (between 
18 and 19). However, during the morning time slot (06:00-12:00), pwPD performed 
significantly higher amounts of steps (4313 vs. 3437 in the 12:00-18:00 time 
slot, p < 0.001, and vs. 2889 in the 18:00-24:00 time slot, p=0.021) and of 
moderate-to-vigorous PA (43.2% vs. 36.3% in the 12:00-18:00 time slot, p=0.002, 
and vs. 31.4% in the 18:00-24:00 time slot, p=0.049). The correlation analysis 
shows that several PA intensity parameters are significantly associated with 
swing-phase duration (rho = -0.675 for sedentary intensity, rho = 0.717 for 
moderate-to-vigorous intensity, p < 0.001), cadence (rho = 0.509 for sedentary 
intensity, rho = -0.575 for moderate-to-vigorous intensity, p < 0.05), and 
overall gait pattern quality as expressed by GPS (rho = -0.498 to -0.606 for 
moderate intensity, p < 0.05) and GVS of knee flexion-extension (rho = -0.536 
for moderate intensity, p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term monitoring of PA integrated by the quantitative 
assessment of spatiotemporal and kinematic parameters of gait may represent a 
useful tool in supporting a better-targeted prescription of PA and 
rehabilitative treatments in pwPD.

DOI: 10.1155/2018/7806574
PMCID: PMC6207897
PMID: 30416704


792. J Thorac Dis. 2018 Sep;10(9):5584-5594. doi: 10.21037/jtd.2018.09.02.

Patient screening for early detection of aortic stenosis (AS)-review of current 
practice and future perspectives.

Thoenes M(1)(2), Bramlage P(3), Zamorano P(4), Messika-Zeitoun D(5), Wendt D(6), 
Kasel M(7), Kurucova J(2), Steeds RP(8).

Author information:
(1)Léman Research Institute, Schaffhausen am Rheinfall, Switzerland.
(2)Edwards Lifesciences, Nyon, Switzerland.
(3)Institute for Pharmacology and Preventive Medicine, Cloppenburg, Germany.
(4)University Hospital Ramón y Cajal, Madrid, Spain.
(5)University of Ottawa Heart Institute, Ottawa, Canada.
(6)Klinik für Thorax- und Kardiovaskuläre Chirurgie, Westdeutsches Herzzentrum 
Essen, Universitätsklinikum Essen, Essen, Germany.
(7)Deutsches Herzzentrum München, München, Germany.
(8)Queen Elizabeth Hospital & Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, University 
of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

In Europe, approximately one million people over 75 years suffer from severe 
aortic stenosis (AS), one of the most serious and most common valve diseases, 
and this disease burden is increasing with the aging population. A diagnosis of 
severe symptomatic AS is associated with an average life expectancy of 2-3 years 
and necessitates a timely valve intervention. Guidelines for valve replacement 
therapy have been established but only a proportion of patients with symptomatic 
AS actually receive this life-saving treatment. The decision for valve 
intervention in asymptomatic patients with severe AS is often more challenging 
and likely results in fewer patients receiving treatment in comparison to their 
symptomatic counterparts. This article reviews the epidemiology and clinical 
manifestations of AS, the associated economic burden of AS to the healthcare 
system, the diagnosis of AS and the possible mechanisms for the introduction of 
routine screening in elderly patients. Elderly patients typically visit 
healthcare providers more frequently than younger patients, thereby providing 
increased opportunities for ad hoc AS screening and this, along with raising 
patient awareness of the symptoms of AS, has the potential to result in the 
earlier diagnosis and treatment of AS and increased patient survival.

DOI: 10.21037/jtd.2018.09.02
PMCID: PMC6196210
PMID: 30416809

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: M Thoenes and J Kurucova 
are employees of Edwards Lifesciences. The other authors have no conflicts of 
interest to declare.
