RESULTS: Standardized mortality ratios (95% confidence interval): for the whole 
cohort: 5.24 (3.00-8.51); for men: 8.20 (3.54-16.16); for women: 3.85 
(1.66-7.58). Cardiovascular causes were found in 11 of 16 deceased, eight of 
these related to aortic pathology. Cancer was the cause of death in three 
patients. At follow-up, 51% had new cardiovascular events; 59% had undergone 
aortic surgery. Men experienced aortic events at younger age than women. 32% of 
the survivors were not followed-up as recommended.
CONCLUSION: Life expectancy is reduced in this MFS cohort compared to the 
Norwegian population. Cardiovascular complications develop throughout life, 
particularly aortic pathology, the major cause of death in MFS. Death and aortic 
pathology seem to occur earlier in men. There is a need to improve follow-up 
according to guidelines.

© 2018 The Authors. Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine published by Wiley 
Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mgg3.489
PMCID: PMC6305663
PMID: 30393980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Nephrology (Carlton). 2019 Apr;24(4):380-386. doi: 10.1111/nep.13525.

Oncology in nephrology comes of age: A focus on chronic dialysis patients.

Cheung CY(1), Tang SCW(2).

Author information:
(1)Renal Unit, Department of Medicine, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Hong Kong SAR.
(2)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, 
Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong SAR.

Dialysis is the commonest modality of renal replacement therapy for patients 
suffering from end-stage kidney disease. Different registry studies showed that 
the risks of overall cancer occurrence were significantly higher in chronic 
dialysis patients than in the age-matched general population. However, the 
frequency and pattern of different cancers may vary among different geographical 
areas. Since chronic dialysis patients tend to have multiple comorbidities and a 
shorter life expectancy, routine cancer screening in all dialysis patients may 
not be cost-effective; rather screening should be personalized according to the 
patient's expected survival, candidacy for kidney transplant together with 
patient preferences.

© 2018 Asian Pacific Society of Nephrology.

DOI: 10.1111/nep.13525
PMID: 30394626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Rev Med Inst Mex Seguro Soc. 2018 Oct 25;56(3):309-315.

[Treatment of hepatocarcinoma with celecoxib and pentoxifylline: a case report].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Jiménez-Luévano MÁ, Rodríguez-Chávez JL, Ramírez-Flores S, Rodríguez-Villa P, 
Jiménez-Partida MÁ, Cervantes-Rodríguez G, Hernández-Flores G, Solís-Martínez R, 
Bravo-Cuellar A(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Centro de Investigación Biomédica de 
Occidente, División de Inmunología. Guadalajara, Jalisco, México

BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the sixth most frequent tumor 
worldwide and it is responsible for approximately 750 000 deaths each year. It 
is the third leading cause of cancer death in Mexico. Despite the existing 
therapeutic regimens, HCC has a poor prognosis with a life expectancy of 
approximately one month in advanced cases. The use of celecoxib and 
pentoxifylline has recently been reported in tumor patients with promising 
results due to its anti-inflammatory, antiangiogenic, antifibrotic and 
proapoptotic effects. Nonetheless, the combination of both drugs for the 
treatment of HCC has never been employed.
CLINICAL CASE: 58-year-old male patient, who arrived to the examination room for 
presenting nausea, jaundice, asthenia, adynamia and encephalopathy grade I-II. 
The patient had a history of alcoholism for 47 years and diagnosis of cirrhosis 
in Child C stage. An image with focal lesion in the right lobe of 8 x 8 cm, 
which was highly vascularized, suggested HCC by means of imaging studies 
(ultrasound, computed axial tomography [CAT] and magnetic resonance imaging). 
Management began in January, 2015, and continues until today with 400 mg of 
pentoxifylline every 12 hours, 200 mg of celecoxib every 12 hours and vitamin 
supplements.
CONCLUSION: After one month, patient showed a surprising response, reduction in 
tumor size almost in its entirety, improvement of clinical condition, and turned 
into Child A stage. Eight months after treatment it was observed by CAT that the 
tumor had practically disappeared. Patient has survived for more than two years. 
These results are encouraging; however, it is necessary to conduct multicenter 
studies that prove the efficacy of the treatment.

Publisher: INTRODUCCIÓN: El hepatocarcinoma (HPC) es el sexto tumor más 
frecuente a nivel mundial y provoca aproximadamente 750 000 muertes al año. 
Representa la tercera causa de muerte por cáncer en México. A pesar de los 
esquemas terapéuticos existentes, el pronóstico en el HPC es malo, con un 
promedio aproximado de vida de un mes en casos avanzados. Recientemente se ha 
reportado el uso de celecoxib y pentoxifilina en pacientes tumorales con 
resultados prometedores debido a sus efectos antiinflamatorios, 
antiangiogénicos, antifibróticos y proapoptóticos. Sin embargo, nunca han sido 
usados en combinación para el tratamiento de HPC.
CASO CLÍNICO: Paciente masculino de 58 años que acudió a consulta por presentar 
náuseas, ictericia, astenia, adinamia y encefalopatía grado I-II; tenía 
antecedente de alcoholismo durante 47 años y diagnóstico de cirrosis en estadio 
Child C. Mediante ultrasonido, tomografía axial computarizada (TAC) y resonancia 
magnética se evidenció una imagen con lesión focal en lóbulo derecho de 8 x 8 
cm, altamente vascularizada, sugestiva de HPC. Se inició manejo en enero de 2015 
y el paciente continúa hasta la fecha con pentoxifilina (400 mg/12 h), celecoxib 
(200 mg/12 h) y suplementos vitamínicos.
CONCLUSIÓN: Después de un mes el paciente mostró una respuesta sorprendente, 
reducción del tamaño de la lesión casi en su totalidad, mejoría del estadio 
clínico y cambió a un estadio Child A. Ocho meses después de implementar el 
tratamiento se observó por medio de TAC que el tumor casi había desaparecido. El 
paciente ha sobrevivido por más de dos años. Los resultados son alentadores; sin 
embargo, es necesario realizar estudios multicéntricos que demuestren su real 
eficacia.

PMID: 30394720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2019 Mar;477(3):480-490. doi: 
10.1097/CORR.0000000000000545.

Prophylactic Fixation Can Be Cost-effective in Preventing a Contralateral 
Bisphosphonate-associated Femur Fracture.

Jiang SY(1), Kaufman DJ, Chien BY, Longoria M, Shachter R, Bishop JA.

Author information:
(1)S. Y. Jiang, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA D. J. 
Kaufman, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Northwestern Medicine, Chicago, IL, 
USA B. Y. Chien, Harvard Combined Orthopaedic Residency Program, Boston, MA, USA 
M. Longoria, R. Shachter, Department of Management Science and Engineering, 
Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA J. A. Bishop, Department of Orthopaedic 
Surgery, Stanford University Medical Center, Redwood City, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Bisphosphonates reduce the risk of fractures associated with 
osteoporosis but increase the risk of atypical subtrochanteric femur fractures. 
After unilateral atypical femur fracture, there is risk of contralateral 
fracture, but the indications for prophylactic fixation are controversial.
QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: The purpose of this study is to use Markov modeling to 
determine whether contralateral prophylactic femur fracture fixation is 
cost-effective after a bisphosphonate-associated atypical femur fracture and, if 
so, what patient-related factors may influence that determination.
METHODS: Markov modeling was used to determine the cost-effectiveness of 
contralateral prophylactic fixation after an initial atypical femur fracture. 
Simulated patients aged 60 to 90 years were included and separated into standard 
and high fracture risk cohorts. Patients with standard fracture risk were 
defined as those presenting with one atypical femur fracture but without 
symptoms or findings in the contralateral femur, whereas patients with high 
fracture risk were typified as those with more than one risk factor, including 
Asian ethnicity, prodromal pain, femoral geometry changes, or radiographic 
findings in the contralateral femur. Outcome probabilities and utilities were 
derived from studies matching to patient characteristics, and fragility fracture 
literature was used when atypical femur fracture data were not available. 
Associated costs were largely derived from Medicare 2015 reimbursement rates. 
Sensitivity analysis was performed on all model parameters within defined 
ranges.
RESULTS: Prophylactic fixation for a 70-year-old patient with standard risk for 
fracture costs USD 131,300/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) and for high-risk 
patients costs USD 22,400/QALY. Sensitivity analysis revealed that prophylaxis 
for high-risk patients is cost-effective at USD 100,000/QALY when the cost of 
prophylaxis was less than USD 29,400, the probability of prophylaxis 
complications was less than 21%, or if the patient was younger than 89 years 
old. The parameters to which the model was most sensitive were the cost of 
prophylaxis, patient age, and probability of prophylaxis-related complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Prophylactic fixation of the contralateral side after unilateral 
atypical femur fracture is not cost-effective for standard-risk patients but is 
cost-effective among high-risk patients between 60 and 89 years of age with a 
high risk for an atypical femur fracture defined by patients with more than one 
risk factor such as Asian ethnicity, prodromal pain, varus proximal femur 
geometry, femoral bowing, or radiographic changes such as periosteal beaking and 
a transverse radiolucent line. However, our findings are based on several key 
assumptions for modeling such as the probability of fractures and complications, 
the costs associated for each health state, and the risks of surgical treatment. 
Future research should prospectively evaluate the degree of risk contributed by 
known radiographic and demographic parameters to guide management of the 
contralateral femur after a patient presents with an atypical femur fracture.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III, economic and decision analyses.

DOI: 10.1097/CORR.0000000000000545
PMCID: PMC6382193
PMID: 30394950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All ICMJE Conflict of Interest Forms for authors 
and Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research® editors and board members are on 
file with the publication and can be viewed on request.


717. Dis Colon Rectum. 2019 Jan;62(1):27-32. doi: 10.1097/DCR.0000000000001186.

A Decision Analysis for Rectal-Sparing Familial Adenomatous Polyposis: Total 
Colectomy With Ileorectal Anastomosis Versus Proctocolectomy With IPAA.

Melnitchouk N(1)(2), Saadat LV(1), Bleday R(1), Goldberg JE(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital/Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts.
(2)Center for Surgery and Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts.

Comment in
    Dis Colon Rectum. 2019 Jan;62(1):1-2.

BACKGROUND: There are different approaches for the surgical management of 
rectal-sparing familial adenomatous polyposis with variable impacts on both 
quality of life and survival.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to quantify the trade-offs between total 
proctocolectomy with IPAA versus total colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis 
using decision analysis.
DESIGN: We created a disease simulation Markov model to simulate the clinical 
events after IPAA and ileorectal anastomosis for rectal-sparing familial 
adenomatous polyposis in a cohort of individuals at the age 30 years. We used 
available literature to obtain different transition probabilities and 
health-states utilities. The output parameters were quality-adjusted life-years 
and life-years. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
performed.
SETTINGS: A decision analysis using a Markov model was conducted at a single 
center.
PATIENTS: Patients with rectal-sparing familial adenomatous polyposis at age 30 
years were included. Rectal-sparing familial adenomatous polyposis is defined as 
the presence of 0 to 20 polyps that can be removed endoscopically.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality-adjusted life-years were measured.
RESULTS: Our model showed that the mean quality-adjusted life-years for IPAA was 
25.12 and for ileorectal anastomosis was 27.12 in base-case analysis. Mean 
life-years for IPAA were 28.81 and 28.28 for ileorectal anastomosis. A 1-way 
sensitivity analysis was performed for all of the parameters in the model. None 
of the deterministic sensitivity analyses changed the model results across the 
range of plausible values. Probabilistic analysis identified that, in 86.9% of 
scenarios, ileorectal anastomosis had improved quality-adjusted life-years 
compared with IPAA.
LIMITATIONS: The study was limited by characteristics inherent to modeling 
studies.
CONCLUSIONS: Ileorectal anastomosis was found to be preferable for patients with 
rectal-sparing familial adenomatous polyposis when quality of life is taken into 
consideration. This model was robust based on both deterministic and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses. These data should be taken into 
consideration when counseling patients regarding a surgical approach in 
rectal-sparing familial adenomatous polyposis. See Video Abstract at 
http://links.lww.com/DCR/A715.

DOI: 10.1097/DCR.0000000000001186
PMID: 30394986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Dev Biol. 2020 Apr 1;460(1):32-39. doi: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2018.10.024. Epub
2018  Nov 3.

Of mice and plants: Comparative developmental systems biology.

Ten Tusscher K(1).

Author information:
(1)Computational Developmental Biology, Department of Biology, Faculty of 
Science, Utrecht University, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
k.h.w.j.tentusscher@uu.nl.

Multicellular animals and plants represent independent evolutionary experiments 
with complex multicellular bodyplans. Differences in their life history, a 
mobile versus sessile lifestyle, and predominant embryonic versus postembryonic 
development, have led to the evolution of highly different body plans. However, 
also many intriguing parallels exist. Extension of the vertebrate body axis and 
its segmentation into somites bears striking resemblance to plant root growth 
and the concomittant prepatterning of lateral root competent sites. Likewise, 
plant shoot phyllotaxis displays similarities with vertebrate limb and digit 
patterning. Additionally, both plants and animals use complex signalling systems 
combining systemic and local signals to fine tune and coordinate organ growth 
across their body. Identification of these striking examples of convergent 
evolution provides support for the existence of general design principles: the 
idea that for particular patterning demands, evolution is likely to arrive at 
highly similar developmental patterning mechanisms. Furthermore, focussing on 
these parallels may aid in identifying core mechanistic principles, often 
obscured by the highly complex nature of multiscale patterning processes.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2018.10.024
PMID: 30395805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Neurobiol Aging. 2019 Feb;74:15-20. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2018.10.006.  Epub 2018 Oct 11.

Extracellular vesicles, new actors in the search for biomarkers of dementias.

Gámez-Valero A(1), Beyer K(2), Borràs FE(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Hospital Universitari and Health Sciences Research 
Institute Germans Trias i Pujol, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Badalona, 
Barcelona, Spain; REMAR-IVECAT group, Health Sciences Research Institute Germans 
Trias i Pujol, Badalona, Spain.
(2)Department of Pathology, Hospital Universitari and Health Sciences Research 
Institute Germans Trias i Pujol, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Badalona, 
Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: katrinbeyer@hotmail.com.
(3)REMAR-IVECAT group, Health Sciences Research Institute Germans Trias i Pujol, 
Badalona, Spain; Department of Cell Biology, Physiology and Immunology, 
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona (UAB), Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: 
feborras@igtp.cat.

Increased life expectancy impacts directly on the number of older people 
worldwide with the associated increase in neurodegenerative diseases. Besides 
their social implications, the different forms of dementia, including 
Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies or 
frontotemporal dementia, show clinical and pathological overlaps; this hinders 
their specific and differential diagnosis. To date, biomarkers for each of these 
types of dementia have been investigated in the cerebrospinal fluid or blood. 
More recently, the field of biomarker search found a new opportunity to improve 
diagnosis in extracellular vesicles (EVs). EVs are released by cells including 
those of the central nervous system and these can be isolated from cerebrospinal 
fluid and blood. This review summarizes the current knowledge related to the 
search for dementia biomarkers in the field of EVs including studies of specific 
EV content, mainly proteins such as α-synuclein or tau and RNA species.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2018.10.006
PMID: 30396120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Med Hypotheses. 2018 Dec;121:99-102. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2018.09.006. Epub
2018  Sep 6.

The S-curve discontinuity theory predicts the path towards a "well" society and 
increased longevity.

Shields LBE(1), Gertz TA(2), Wilson KC(3), Figg GL(4), Hester ST(5), Honaker 
JT(6).

Author information:
(1)Norton Neuroscience Institute, Norton Healthcare, Louisville, KY 40202, USA. 
Electronic address: LBES@earthlink.net.
(2)Norton Medical Group, Norton Healthcare, Louisville, KY, 40241, USA. 
Electronic address: Tyler.Gertz@nortonhealthcare.org.
(3)Norton Medical Group, Norton Healthcare, Louisville, KY, 40241, USA. 
Electronic address: Kenneth.Wilson@nortonhealthcare.org.
(4)Norton Medical Group, Norton Healthcare, Louisville, KY, 40241, USA. 
Electronic address: Ginger.Figg@nortonhealthcare.org.
(5)Norton Medical Group, Norton Healthcare, Louisville, KY, 40241, USA. 
Electronic address: Steven.Hester@nortonhealthcare.org.
(6)Norton Medical Group, Norton Healthcare, Louisville, KY, 40241, USA. 
Electronic address: Joshua.Honaker@nortonhealthcare.org.

The logistic function or logistic growth curve is an "S" shape (sigmoid curve) 
that has been applied to numerous fields, including geology, physics, biology, 
mathematics, chemistry, economics, sociology, oncology, and statistics. The 
S-curve initiates with exponential growth, followed by slowing of growth as 
saturation occurs, and completion of growth at maturity. The S-curve follows the 
law of natural growth with a limiting factor, whether it be a competition for 
resources, investigation and demand for new products, or an economic bubble. The 
concept of the S-curve has been utilized in medicine to describe the 
advancements in the 20th century based on the diagnosis and treatment of disease 
(the "illness" curve [first S-curve]) and predict the future focused on disease 
prevention and health promotion (the "wellness" curve [second S-curve]). Herein, 
we propose a third S-curve that we are labeling the "longevity" curve.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2018.09.006
PMID: 30396505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. CMAJ. 2018 Nov 5;190(44):E1294-E1295. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.180806.

Alcohol use, opioid overdose and socioeconomic status in Canada: A threat to 
life expectancy?

Probst C(1), Rehm J(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Mental Health Policy Research (Probst, Rehm), Centre for 
Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH); Department of Psychiatry (Rehm), University 
of Toronto, Toronto, Ont.
(2)Institute for Mental Health Policy Research (Probst, Rehm), Centre for 
Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH); Department of Psychiatry (Rehm), University 
of Toronto, Toronto, Ont. jtrehm@gmail.com.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.180806
PMCID: PMC6217603
PMID: 30397155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


722. CMAJ. 2018 Nov 5;190(44):E1296-E1304. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.180698.

Global Burden of Disease Study trends for Canada from 1990 to 2016.

Lang JJ(1), Alam S(2), Cahill LE(2), Drucker AM(2), Gotay C(2), Kayibanda JF(2), 
Kozloff N(2), Mate KKV(2), Patten SB(2), Orpana HM(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Surveillance and Applied Research (Lang, Orpana), Health Promotion 
and Chronic Disease Prevention Branch, Public Health Agency of Canada; Healthy 
Active Living and Obesity Research Group (Lang), CHEO Research Institute, 
Ottawa, Ont.; Departments of Medicine (Alam, Cahill) and of Community Health and 
Epidemiology (Alam, Cahill), Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS; Department of 
Nutrition (Cahill), Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, Mass.; 
Division of Dermatology, Department of Medicine (Drucker), and Department of 
Psychiatry (Kozloff), University of Toronto; Division of Dermatology, Department 
of Medicine (Drucker), Women's College Hospital; Women's College Research 
Institute (Drucker), Toronto, Ont.; School of Population and Public Health 
(Gotay), University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC; Institut de la 
statistique du Québec (Kayibanda), Québec, Que.; Slaight Family Centre for Youth 
in Transition (Kozloff), Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, Ont.; 
School of Physical and Occupational Therapy (Mate), McGill University, Montréal, 
Que.; Departments of Community Health Sciences (Patten) and of Psychiatry 
(Patten), University of Calgary, Calgary, Alta.; School of Epidemiology and 
Public Health (Orpana), University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ont. 
Justin.lang@canada.ca.
(2)Centre for Surveillance and Applied Research (Lang, Orpana), Health Promotion 
and Chronic Disease Prevention Branch, Public Health Agency of Canada; Healthy 
Active Living and Obesity Research Group (Lang), CHEO Research Institute, 
Ottawa, Ont.; Departments of Medicine (Alam, Cahill) and of Community Health and 
Epidemiology (Alam, Cahill), Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS; Department of 
Nutrition (Cahill), Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, Mass.; 
Division of Dermatology, Department of Medicine (Drucker), and Department of 
Psychiatry (Kozloff), University of Toronto; Division of Dermatology, Department 
of Medicine (Drucker), Women's College Hospital; Women's College Research 
Institute (Drucker), Toronto, Ont.; School of Population and Public Health 
(Gotay), University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC; Institut de la 
statistique du Québec (Kayibanda), Québec, Que.; Slaight Family Centre for Youth 
in Transition (Kozloff), Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, Ont.; 
School of Physical and Occupational Therapy (Mate), McGill University, Montréal, 
Que.; Departments of Community Health Sciences (Patten) and of Psychiatry 
(Patten), University of Calgary, Calgary, Alta.; School of Epidemiology and 
Public Health (Orpana), University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ont.

BACKGROUND: The Global Burden of Disease Study represents a large and systematic 
effort to describe the burden of diseases and injuries over the past 3 decades. 
We aimed to summarize the Canadian data on burden of diseases and injuries.
METHODS: We summarized data from the 2016 iteration of the Global Burden of 
Disease Study to provide current (2016) and historical estimates for all-cause 
and cause-specific diseases and injuries using mortality, years of life lost, 
years lived with disability and disability-adjusted life years in Canada. We 
also compared changes in life expectancy and health-adjusted life expectancy 
between Canada and 21 countries with a high sociodemographic index.
RESULTS: In 2016, leading causes of all-age disability-adjusted life years were 
neoplasms, cardiovascular diseases, musculoskeletal diseases, and mental and 
substance use disorders, which together accounted for about 56% of 
disability-adjusted life years. Between 2006 and 2016, the rate of all-cause 
age-standardized years of life lost declined by 12%, while the rate of all-cause 
age-standardized years lived with disability remained relatively stable (+1%), 
and the rate of all-cause age-standardized disability-adjusted life year 
declined by 5%. In 2016, Canada aligned with countries that have a similar high 
sociodemographic index in terms of life expectancy (82 yr) and health-adjusted 
life expectancy (71 yr).
INTERPRETATION: The patterns of mortality and morbidity in Canada reflect an 
aging population and improving patterns of population health. If current trends 
continue, Canada will continue to face challenges of increasing population 
morbidity and disability alongside decreasing premature mortality.

© 2018 Joule Inc. or its licensors.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.180698
PMCID: PMC6217597
PMID: 30397156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Aaron Drucker reports 
grants and personal fees from Sanofi and Regeneron for activities outside the 
work reported here. No other competing interests were declared.


723. World J Gastrointest Surg. 2018 Oct 27;10(7):75-83. doi:
10.4240/wjgs.v10.i7.75.

Current role of palliative interventions in advanced pancreatic cancer.

Ciambella CC(1), Beard RE(1), Miner TJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, Warren Alpert Medical School Brown 
University, Providence, RI 02906, United States.
(2)Department of Surgical Oncology, Warren Alpert Medical School Brown 
University, Providence, RI 02906, United States. tminer@usasurg.org.

Pancreatic adenocarcinoma is the third leading cause of cancer death in the 
United States. Unfortunately, at diagnosis, most patients are not candidates for 
curative resection. Surgical palliation, a procedure performed with the 
intention of relieving symptoms or improving quality of life, comes to the 
forefront of management. This article reviews the palliative management of 
unresectable pancreatic cancer, including obstructive jaundice, duodenal 
obstruction and pain control with celiac plexus block. Although surgical 
bypasses for both biliary and duodenal obstructions usually achieve good 
technical success, they result in considerable perioperative morbidity and 
mortality, even when performed laparoscopically. The effectiveness of 
self-expanding metal stents for biliary drainage is excellent with low 
morbidity. Surgical gastrojejunostomy for duodenal obstruction appears to be 
best for patients with a life expectancy of greater than 2 mo while endoscopic 
stenting has been shown to be feasible with good symptom relief in those with a 
shorter life expectancy. Regardless of the palliative procedure performed, all 
physicians involved must be adequately trained in end of life management to 
ensure the best possible care for patients.

DOI: 10.4240/wjgs.v10.i7.75
PMCID: PMC6212542
PMID: 30397425

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: There is no 
conflict of interest associated with the senior author or other coauthors that 
contributed their efforts in this manuscript.


724. Methods Mol Biol. 2019;1892:57-74. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-8914-0_3.

Morphology of Rice Seed Development and Its Influence on Grain Quality.

Counce PA(1), Moldenhauer KAK(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Arkansas, Rice Research and Extension Center, Stuttgart, AR, 
USA. pcounce@uark.edu.
(2)University of Arkansas, Rice Research and Extension Center, Stuttgart, AR, 
USA.

Various quality attributes of rice seed are affected by the wide array of 
biochemical products accumulated during the course of reproductive development 
and the environmental conditions which impact the grain composition. The staging 
of rice plant reproductive development is needed in experiments to define phase 
transitions of seed biology. The application of the nomenclature and criteria of 
the rice growth staging system can facilitate recording the reproductive 
development by distinct stages. The meaningful progression from one stage to 
another in time can then be evaluated in a tabular or graphic manner. In order 
to determine the developmental stages of rice in experiments, it is desirable to 
select a representative group of plants and to record the development of those 
plants. We provide procedures for efficiently (1) observing and recording 
development of rice plants and (2) collecting, storing and seperating seed by 
developmental stages. It is necessary to divide seeds into differing groups to 
track development from fertilization until maturity. The earliest seeds to be 
fertilized on a panicle are superior grains and the latter seeds to develop are 
inferior grains. In some cases, it is necessary to divide individual seeds into 
the aforementioned groups and the different stages of development for various 
analyses. A procedure for dividing seeds into differing stages of development is 
presented to more appropriately select seeds for further analysis. The 
developmental record can then be statistically and graphically analyzed to 
better understand responses to treatments and interactions among treatments, 
years, and locations.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-8914-0_3
PMID: 30397799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. J Urban Health. 2018 Dec;95(6):888-898. doi: 10.1007/s11524-018-0323-x.

The Cost-Effectiveness of Bike Share Expansion to Low-Income Communities in New 
York City.

Yu W(1)(2), Chen C(3), Jiao B(3)(4), Zafari Z(3), Muennig P(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Military Health Service Management, Second Military Medical 
University, Shanghai, China. jsjyyuwenya@sina.cn.
(2)Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York, USA. 
jsjyyuwenya@sina.cn.
(3)Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York, USA.
(4)School of Pharmacy, University of Washington, Seattle, USA.

The "Citi Bike" bike share program in New York City is the largest bike share 
program in the USA. We ask whether expanding this program to lower-income 
communities is cost-effective means of encouraging exercise and reducing 
pollution in New York City. We built a stochastic Markov model to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of the Citi Bike expansion program, an effort to extend bike 
share to areas with higher costs and risks over a 10-year time horizon. We used 
one-way sensitivity analyses and Monte Carlo simulation to test the model 
uncertainty. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of the Citi Bike expansion 
program relative to the current program (status quo) was $7869/quality-adjusted 
life year gained. The Citi Bike expansion program in New York City offers good 
value relative to most health interventions.

DOI: 10.1007/s11524-018-0323-x
PMCID: PMC6286277
PMID: 30397819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Exp Clin Transplant. 2019 Oct;17(5):685-687. doi: 10.6002/ect.2018.0100.
Epub  2018 Nov 6.

Simultaneous Pancreas-Kidney Transplant After Bricker Loop Urinary Diversion: A 
Case Report.

Kovács DÁ(1), Braat AE, Huurman VAL, Baranski AG.

Author information:
(1)From the Leiden University Medical Centre, Department of Surgery, Division of 
Transplantation, Leiden, The Netherlands.

Simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplant is the ultimate therapy for patients who 
have uncontrolled and complicated type 1 diabetes mellitus with end-stage renal 
disease. The combined pancreas transplant provides a euglycemic milieu for the 
kidney and protects it from recurrence of diabetic complications. Our patient, a 
41-year-old woman with end-stage diabetic nephropathy and history of multiple 
abdominal surgeries (ovarian cyst fenestration, adnexal extirpation, abdominal 
wall reconstruction), including urinary diversion (Bricker loop, above double J 
stent), underwent simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplant. After reperfusion, 
the kidney had immediate function and creatinine levels dropped to normal levels 
during the early postoperative period (creatinine of 102 μmol/L, estimated 
glomerular filtration rate of 52 mL/min/1.73 m2) and remained stable during 
follow-up. Serum glucose levels dropped to within normal ranges postoperatively 
and remained so during follow-up. The postoperative course was complicated by 
hydronephrosis due to transient edema of the anastomosis of the ureter to the 
Bricker loop, after early incidental removal of the double J catheter. This was 
successfully treated with a temporary percutaneous nephrostomy. Multiple 
previous surgeries, including a Bricker deviation, may not be a definitive 
contraindication for simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplant. In selected cases, 
special considerations may lead to a successful procedure providing better 
quality of life and life expectancy, even for patients with multiple 
comorbidities.

DOI: 10.6002/ect.2018.0100
PMID: 30398101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Biomed Mater Eng. 2018;29(5):651-664. doi: 10.3233/BME-181015.

Preservation of femoral and tibial coronal alignment to improve biomechanical 
effects of medial unicompartment knee arthroplasty: Computational study.

Kang KT(1), Son J(1), Kwon SK(2), Kwon OR(2), Koh YG(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Yonsei University, 50 Yonsei-ro, 
Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, 03722, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Joint Reconstruction Center, Yonsei Sarang 
Hospital, 10 Hyoryeong-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul, 06698, Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND: Medial unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (UKA) could be concerned 
with wear of the cartilage or the wear in the polyethylene (PE) insert. 
Mechanical alignment determines the biomechanical effect in the long term. 
However, previous computational studies all found that femoral and tibial 
components alignment in the UKA were rare, and the results varied.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the biomechanical effect of 
the femoral and tibial component coronal alignment in varus and valgus 
conditions through computational simulation.
METHODS: A three-dimensional finite element model of the intact knee was 
constructed from medical image data of one healthy subject. A medial UKA model 
of neutral position and various coronal components was developed from the intact 
knee joint model. The tibial varus-femoral valgus and tibial valgus-femoral 
varus conditions were analyzed with parallel component angles of 3°, 6° and 9° 
by using validated finite element models. We considered the contact stresses in 
the PE inserts and articular cartilage and the force on collateral ligament 
under gait cycle condition.
RESULTS: Compared to the contact stress in the neutral position model, the 
contact stress on the PE insert increased in both tibial varus-femoral valgus 
and tibial valgus-femoral varus models. These trends were also observed in the 
case of the articular cartilage in remain compartment. However, the contact 
stress on the PE insert and articular cartilage increased largely in the tibial 
valgus-femoral varus model than in the tibial varus-femoral valgus model. The 
forces on the medial and lateral collateral ligaments increased in the tibial 
valgus-femoral varus model, whereas in the tibial varus-femoral valgus model, 
the forces decreased compared to the forces in the neutral position. The force 
on the anterior lateral ligament and popliteofibular ligament increased in the 
tibial varus-femoral valgus model as compared to the neutral position.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that neutral alignment or less than 3° tibial 
varus-femoral valgus alignment in the coronal plane can be recommended in medial 
UKA to reduce the postoperative complications and to enhance the life expectancy 
of implants.

DOI: 10.3233/BME-181015
PMID: 30400078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Cells. 2018 Nov 2;7(11):193. doi: 10.3390/cells7110193.

Leukocyte Telomere Length and Chronic Conditions in Older Women of Northeast 
Brazil: A Cross-Sectional Study.

Oliveira BS(1), Pirkle CM(2), Zunzunegui MV(3), Batistuzzo de Medeiros SR(4), 
Thomasini RL(5), Guerra RO(6).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Fisioterapia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, 
Natal, Rio Grande do Norte 59078970, Brazil. brunasioliveira@gmail.com.
(2)Office of Public Health Studies, University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, HI 
96822, USA. cmpirkle@hawaii.edu.
(3)Département de Médecine sociale et préventive, École de santé publique, 
Université de Montréal, C.P. 6128, succ. Centre-Ville, Montréal, QC H3C 3J7, 
Canada. maria.victoria.zunzunegui@umontreal.ca.
(4)Departamento de Biologia Celular e Genética, Universidade Federal do Rio 
Grande do Norte, Natal, Rio Grande do Norte 59078970, Brazil. 
sbatistu@cb.ufrn.br.
(5)Programa Multicêntrico de Pós-graduação em Ciências Fisiológicas (PMPGCF), 
Núcleo de Estudos de Patologias Inflamatórias e Infecciosas (NEPii) and 
Faculdade de Medicina de Diamantina-FAMED, Universidade Federal dos Vales do 
Jequitinhonha e Mucuri, Diamantina, Minas Gerais 39100000, Brazil. 
ronaldothomasini@gmail.com.
(6)Campus Universitário Natal, Departamento de Fisioterapia, Universidade 
Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Rio Grande do Norte 59078970, Brazil. 
roguerra@ufrnet.br.

This study assessed whether telomere length is related to chronic conditions, 
cardiovascular risk factors, and inflammation in women aged 65 to 74 from 
Northeast Brazil. Participants were selected from two sources, a representative 
sample of the International Mobility in Aging Study (n = 57) and a convenience 
sample (n = 49) recruited at senior centers. Leukocyte telomere length was 
measured by quantitative polymerase chain reaction from blood samples in 83 
women. Natural log-transformed telomere/single copy gene ratio was used as the 
dependent variable in the analysis. Blood analyses included inflammatory markers 
(high-sensitivity C-reactive protein and interleukin-6), total, low-density 
lipoprotein and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, glucose and 
glycosylated hemoglobin. Self-rated health, chronic conditions, cardiovascular 
risk factors and inflammatory markers were not associated with telomere length. 
No significant independent association was found between telomere length and 
anthropometric measures or blood markers, even after adjusting for age, 
education and adverse childhood events among these older women in Northeast 
Brazil. Our results did not confirm the hypothesis that chronic conditions, 
cardiovascular risk factors or inflammation are associated with shorter telomere 
length in these women who have exceptional survival relative to the life 
expectancy of their birth cohort.

DOI: 10.3390/cells7110193
PMCID: PMC6262387
PMID: 30400186

Conflict of interest statement: No competing financial interests exist.


729. BMC Geriatr. 2018 Nov 6;18(1):267. doi: 10.1186/s12877-018-0953-6.

Comparison of a group-delivered and individually delivered lifestyle-integrated 
functional exercise (LiFE) program in older persons: a randomized noninferiority 
trial.

Jansen CP(1), Nerz C(2), Kramer F(3), Labudek S(3), Klenk J(2)(4)(5), Dams J(6), 
König HH(6), Clemson L(7), Becker C(2), Schwenk M(3).

Author information:
(1)Network Aging Research, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany. 
jansen@nar.uni-heidelberg.de.
(2)Department of Clinical Gerontology and Geriatric Rehabilitation, Robert Bosch 
Hospital, Stuttgart, Germany.
(3)Network Aging Research, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany.
(4)Institute of Epidemiology and Medical Biometry, Ulm University, Ulm, Germany.
(5)IB Hochschule Berlin, Studienzentrum Stuttgart, Stuttgart, Germany.
(6)Department of Health Economics and Health Services Research, University 
Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(7)Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.

BACKGROUND: The Lifestyle-Integrated Functional Exercise (LiFE) program is 
effective in improving strength, balance, and physical activity (PA) while 
simultaneously reducing falls in older people by incorporating exercise 
activities in recurring daily tasks. However, implementing the original LiFE 
program includes substantial resource requirements. Therefore, as part of the 
LiFE-is-LiFE project, a group format (gLiFE) of the LiFE program has been 
developed, which will be tested regarding its noninferiority to the individually 
delivered LiFE in terms of PA-adjusted fall incidence and overall 
cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: In a multi-centre, single-blinded noninferiority trial, an envisaged 
sample of N = 300 participants (> 70 years; faller and/or confirmed falls risk; 
community-dwelling) will be randomized in either LiFE or gLiFE. Both groups will 
undergo the same strength and balance activities as well as PA promotion 
activities and habitualization strategies as described in the LiFE programme, 
however, based on different approaches of delivery: During the 6-month 
intervention phase, LiFE participants will receive seven home visits and two 
telephone calls; in gLiFE, the program will be delivered in seven group sessions 
and also two telephone calls. Main outcomes are a) fall incidence per PA and b) 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio comparing costs and quality-adjusted life 
years between the two interventions. Secondary outcomes include PA behaviour, 
motor performance, health status, psychosocial status, program evaluation, and 
adherence. Measurements will be conducted at baseline, 6-month and 12-month 
follow-up; evaluation of intervention sessions and assessment of psychosocial 
variables related to execution and habitualization of LiFE activities will be 
made during the intervention period as well.
DISCUSSION: Compared to LiFE, we expect gLiFE to (a) reduce falls per PA by a 
similar rate; (b) be more cost-effective; (c) comparably enhance physical 
performance in terms of strength and balance as well as PA. By investigating the 
economic and societal benefit, this study will be of high practical relevance as 
noninferiority of gLiFE would facilitate large-scale implementation due to lower 
resource usage. This would result in better reach and increased accessibility, 
which is important for subjects with a history of falls and/or being at risk of 
falls.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03462654 . Registered on March 12, 
2018.

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-018-0953-6
PMCID: PMC6219201
PMID: 30400832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: 
Ethical approval for the project was obtained from the Ethic Review Board of the 
Faculty of Behavioral and Cultural Studies at Heidelberg University (for the 
study site Heidelberg; document number Schwe2017 2/1–1), and from the Ethic 
Review Board of the University Hospital and Faculty of Medicine in Tübingen (for 
the study site Stuttgart; document number 723/2017BO2). Amendments to protocol 
are to be approved by the Ethic Review Boards before coming into effect. The 
study is conforming to the respective policy and mandates of the Declaration of 
Helsinki. Participants’ written informed consent is obtained from assessors at 
their first screening visit at the study site. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not 
applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to 
jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


730. BMC Nephrol. 2018 Nov 6;19(1):306. doi: 10.1186/s12882-018-1109-9.

Autologous arteriovenous fistula is associated with superior outcomes in elderly 
hemodialysis patients.

Bae E(1), Lee H(2)(3), Kim DK(2)(3), Oh KH(2), Kim YS(2)(3), Ahn C(2)(3), Han 
JS(2)(3), Min SI(4), Min SK(4), Kim HC(5), Joo KW(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Gyeongsang National University Changwon 
Hospital, Changwon, South Korea.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, 
South Korea.
(3)Kidney Reasearch Institute, Seoul National University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, South Korea.
(4)Department of Surgery, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
South Korea.
(5)Department of Radiology, Seoul National University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, South Korea.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, 
South Korea. junephro@gmail.com.
(7)Kidney Reasearch Institute, Seoul National University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, South Korea. junephro@gmail.com.
(8)Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University College of 
Medicine, 101 Daehak-Ro, Jongno-Gu, Seoul, 03080, Republic of Korea. 
junephro@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The number of elderly patients with end-stage renal disease is 
increasing rapidly. The higher prevalence of comorbidities and shorter life 
expectancy in these patients make it difficult to decide on the type of vascular 
access (VA). We explored the optimal choice for VA in elderly hemodialysis 
patients.
METHODS: We included elderly patients (> 65 years) visiting our VA clinic and 
divided them into three groups as follows: radiocephalic arteriovenous fistula 
(AVF), brachiocephalic AVF, and prosthetic arteriovenous graft (AVG). The 
primary outcomes were VA abandonment and all-cause mortality. The secondary 
outcome was maturation failure (MF).
RESULTS: Of 529 patients, 61.2% were men. The mean age was 73.6 ± 6.0 years. The 
VA types were as follows: 49.9% radiocephalic AVF, 31.8% brachiocephalic AVF, 
and 18.3% AVG. Patients with an AVG tended to be older, female, and have a lower 
body mass index. More than half of patients (n = 302, 57.1%) started dialysis 
with central catheters, but the proportion of predialysis central catheter 
placement was not different among the VA types. Radiocephalic AVF was 
significantly superior to AVG in terms of VA abandonment (P = 0.005) and 
all-cause mortality (P < 0.001) in spite of a higher probability of MF. 
Brachiocephalic AVF was associated with a shorter time to the first needling and 
fewer interventions before maturation than radiocephalic AVF.
CONCLUSIONS: Autologous AVF was suggested as the preferred VA choice in terms of 
long-term outcomes in elderly patients.

DOI: 10.1186/s12882-018-1109-9
PMCID: PMC6218981
PMID: 30400882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: This 
study was reviewed and approved by the Institutional Review Board of Seoul 
National University Hospital. The requirement for patient informed consent was 
waived because of the retrospective design of the study. All clinical 
investigations were conducted based on the guidelines of the 2008 Declaration of 
Helsinki. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


731. Am Surg. 2018 Jul 1;84(7):e270-e272.

Traumatic Deaths during the Functional Years: Working Toward Sustainable 
Prevention.

Allen L, Elkbuli A, Glenn M, Hai S, Boneva D, Morejon O, Bernal E, McKenney M, 
Ramirez M.

PMID: 30401036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Semin Intervent Radiol. 2018 Oct;35(4):281-289. doi: 10.1055/s-0038-1673420.
 Epub 2018 Nov 5.

Musculoskeletal Metastases Management: The Interventional Radiologist's Toolbox.

Mastier C(1), Gjorgjievska A(1), Thivolet A(1), Bouhamama A(1), Cuinet M(1), 
Pilleul F(1), Tselikas L(2), de Baère T(2), Deschamps F(2).

Author information:
(1)Interventional Radiology Department, CLCC Léon Bérard 28 prom, Lyon, France.
(2)Department of Interventional Radiology, Gustave Roussy - Cancer Campus, 
Villejuif, France.

The prevalence of patients with painful bone metastases is constantly 
increasing. This is related to the rising incidence of cancer and increasing 
life expectancy of patients with metastatic stage. Advances in imaging and 
development of percutaneous techniques have gradually allowed offering minimally 
invasive acts on these metastases: cementing, vertebral augmentation, 
osteosynthesis, percutaneous thermal ablation, neurolysis, embolization. The 
purpose of this article is to present the main tools available to date for the 
interventional radiologist so that each participant can understand their 
functioning, indications, and limits.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0038-1673420
PMCID: PMC6218260
PMID: 30402011


733. Curr Heart Fail Rep. 2018 Dec;15(6):398-410. doi: 10.1007/s11897-018-0414-8.

Depression, Anxiety, and Cognitive Impairment : Comorbid Mental Health Disorders 
in Heart Failure.

Angermann CE(1), Ertl G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I and Comprehensive Heart Failure Center, 
University and University Hospital of Würzburg, Am Schwarzenberg 15, 97078, 
Würzburg, Germany. Angermann_C@ukw.de.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine I and Comprehensive Heart Failure Center, 
University and University Hospital of Würzburg, Am Schwarzenberg 15, 97078, 
Würzburg, Germany.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Depression, anxiety, and cognitive impairment constitute 
established risk markers for incident cardiovascular disease (CVD) and are 
associated with impaired life expectancy and quality of life and high 
hospitalization rates and healthcare expenditure. This review summarizes current 
knowledge about mental health disorders in patients with CVD and heart failure 
(HF).
RECENT FINDINGS: Emerging evidence suggests various shared pathophysiological 
mechanisms between psychological comorbidities and CVD (e.g., systemic 
inflammation and autonomic dysfunction). Bi-directional interactions involving 
the central nervous and cardiovascular systems may help explain the rising 
prevalence of comorbid mood disorders with increasing CVD severity and support 
the concept of alternative pathophysiological mechanisms in the presence of 
severe somatic illness, making symptoms less responsive or unresponsive to 
psychotropic pharmacotherapy. Considering high prevalence and negative impact of 
psychological comorbidities in CVD and HF, routine care should integrate 
screening for these conditions. Multidisciplinary treatment approaches with 
active patient participation in disease management were shown to improve 
outcomes. However, better understanding of factors mediating the adverse 
prognostic effects of mood disorders is needed. This might enable more targeted 
treatment and possibly also facilitate better understanding of the 
pathophysiological mechanisms driving CVD.

DOI: 10.1007/s11897-018-0414-8
PMID: 30402659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. J Gen Intern Med. 2019 Jan;34(1):110-117. doi: 10.1007/s11606-018-4717-y.
Epub  2018 Nov 6.

Influence of Age, Health, and Function on Cancer Screening in Older Adults with 
Limited Life Expectancy.

Schoenborn NL(1)(2), Huang J(3)(4), Sheehan OC(3)(4), Wolff JL(4)(5), Roth 
DL(3)(4), Boyd CM(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)The Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. nancyli@jhmi.edu.
(2)The Johns Hopkins Center on Aging and Health, Baltimore, MD, USA. 
nancyli@jhmi.edu.
(3)The Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(4)The Johns Hopkins Center on Aging and Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(5)The Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: We examined the relationship between cancer screening and 
life expectancy predictors, focusing on the influence of age versus health and 
function, in older adults with limited life expectancy.
DESIGN: Longitudinal cohort study SETTING: National Health and Aging Trends 
Study (NHATS) with linked Medicare claims.
PARTICIPANTS: Three cohorts of adults 65+ enrolled in fee-for-service Medicare 
were constructed: women eligible for breast cancer screening (n = 2043); men 
eligible for prostate cancer screening (n = 1287); men and women eligible for 
colorectal cancer screening (n = 3759).
MEASUREMENTS: We assessed 10-year mortality risk using 2011 NHATS data, then 
used claims data to assess 2-year prostate and breast cancer screening rates and 
3-year colorectal cancer screening rates. Among those with limited life 
expectancy (10-year mortality risk > 50%), we stratified participants at each 
level of predicted mortality risk and split participants in each risk stratum by 
the median age. We assembled two sub-groups from these strata that were matched 
on predicted life expectancy: a "younger sub-group" with relatively poorer 
health/functional status and an "older sub-group" with relatively better 
health/functional status. We compared screening rates between sub-groups.
RESULTS: For all three cancer screenings, the younger sub-groups (average ages 
73.4-76.1) had higher screening rates than the older sub-groups (average ages 
83.6-86.9); screening rates were 42.9% versus 34.2% for prostate cancer 
screening (p = 0.02), 33.6% versus 20.6% for breast cancer screening 
(p < 0.001), 13.1% versus 6.7% for colorectal cancer screening in women 
(p = 0.006), and 20.5% versus 12.1% for colorectal cancer screening in men 
(p = 0.002).
CONCLUSION: Among older adults with limited life expectancy, those who are 
relatively younger with poorer health and functional status are over-screened 
for cancer at higher rates than those who are older with the same predicted life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-018-4717-y
PMCID: PMC6318172
PMID: 30402822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Dr. Cynthia Boyd received a small payment from UptoDate for having co-authored a 
chapter on Multimorbidity; however, we do not believe this has resulted in any 
conflict with the design, methodology, or results presented in this manuscript.


735. Am J Public Health. 2018 Dec;108(12):1582-1583. doi:
10.2105/AJPH.2018.304759.

Older Persons in The Netherlands and the United States: Similar in Trends in 
Life in Good Cognitive Health and Different in Trends in Life Without 
Disability/Poor Health.

Crimmins EM(1).

Author information:
(1)Eileen M. Crimmin is with the Davis School of Gerontology, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles.

