DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2018.304759
PMCID: PMC6236729
PMID: 30403516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Popul Health Manag. 2019 Aug;22(4):315-320. doi: 10.1089/pop.2018.0125. Epub
 2018 Nov 7.

Primary Care Providers' Attitudes and Practices Regarding Cancer Screening in 
Older Adults.

Sifri R(1), Salzman B(1), Cunningham A(1), Silverio A(1), Zale M(1), Talerico 
C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, Thomas Jefferson University, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Cancer screening decisions for older adults should be individualized. However, 
conducting such complex shared decisions may be challenging for primary care 
providers (PCPs). Additionally, there is little information about how PCPs make 
these decisions. This study consisted of a provider survey and chart review to 
assess current PCP approaches to breast and colorectal cancer (CRC) screening 
for patients ages ≥75 years. PCP survey questions: panel age, comfort with 
discussion of screening harms and benefits, screening decision-making process, 
and discussion style. One hundred charts were chosen from a random sample of 
male and female patients ages ≥75 with a recent office visit. Chart reviews 
assessed whether providers recommended screening for breast and/or CRC in 
patients ages ≥75, if there was a documented screening discussion, and if 
screening was completed. Fifty-one PCPs completed the survey. PCPs varied in the 
proportions of older adults they recommended for breast and CRC screening; 90.2% 
reported feeling very (43.1%) or somewhat (47.1%) comfortable discussing reasons 
for/against screening with older patients. Top screening considerations: life 
expectancy (84.3%), patient preference (82.4%), and severity of medical 
conditions (70.6%). Three-quarters (74.55%) reported a shared decision-making 
approach with discussion of harms/benefits. Of 61 eligible patients, 8 (13.1%) 
had a documented discussion regarding mammography; of 58 patients eligible for 
CRC screening, 7 (12.1%) had a documented discussion. Findings showed 
inconsistency in PCP approaches to cancer screening in older adults and in 
documentation of discussion. There is ample room for improvement in 
standardizing approaches and documentation of cancer screening discussions with 
older patients.

DOI: 10.1089/pop.2018.0125
PMID: 30403555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Med Decis Making. 2018 Nov;38(8):942-953. doi: 10.1177/0272989X18803109.

Cost-effectiveness of Initiating an Insulin Pump in T1D Adults Using Continuous 
Glucose Monitoring Compared with Multiple Daily Insulin Injections: The DIAMOND 
Randomized Trial.

Wan W(1)(2)(3), Skandari MR(1)(2)(3), Minc A(1)(2)(3), Nathan AG(1)(2)(3), Zarei 
P(1)(2)(3), Winn AN(1)(2)(3), O'Grady M(1)(2)(3), Huang ES(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Section of General Internal Medicine, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL (WW, 
MRS, AM, AGN, PZ, ESH).
(2)School of Pharmacy, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI (ANW).
(3)National Opinion Research Center, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL (MO).

BACKGROUND: The economic impact of both continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) and 
insulin pumps (continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion [CSII]) in type 1 
diabetes (T1D) have been evaluated separately. However, the cost-effectiveness 
of adding CSII to existing CGM users has not yet been assessed.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the societal cost-effectiveness 
of CSII versus continuing multiple daily injections (MDI) in adults with T1D 
already using CGM.
METHODS: In the second phase of the DIAMOND trial, 75 adults using CGM were 
randomized to either CGM+CSII or CGM+MDI (control) and surveyed at baseline and 
28 weeks. We performed within-trial and lifetime cost-effectiveness analyses 
(CEAs) and estimated lifetime costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) via 
a modified Sheffield T1D model.
RESULTS: Within the trial, the CGM+CSII group had a significant reduction in 
quality of life from baseline (-0.02 ± 0.05 difference in difference [DiD]) 
compared with controls. Total per-person 28-week costs were $8,272 (CGM+CSII) 
versus $5,623 (CGM+MDI); the difference in costs was primarily attributable to 
pump use ($2,644). Pump users reduced insulin intake (-12.8 units DiD) but 
increased the use of daily number of test strips (+1.2 DiD). Pump users also 
increased time with glucose in range of 70 to 180 mg/dL but had a higher HbA1c 
(+0.13 DiD) and more nonsevere hypoglycemic events. In the lifetime CEA, 
CGM+CSII would increase total costs by $112,045 DiD, decrease QALYs by 0.71, and 
decrease life expectancy by 0.48 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on this single trial, initiating an insulin pump in adults 
with T1D already using CGM was associated with higher costs and reduced quality 
of life. Additional evidence regarding the clinical effects of adopting 
combinations of new technologies from trials and real-world populations is 
needed to confirm these findings.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X18803109
PMCID: PMC6226055
PMID: 30403576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: All authors 
have no financial/commercial conflicts of interests.


738. Med Decis Making. 2018 Nov;38(8):968-982. doi: 10.1177/0272989X18802797.

Parallel Valuation: A Direct Comparison of EQ-5D-3L and EQ-5D-5L Societal Value 
Sets.

Law EH(1)(2)(3), Pickard AS(1)(2)(3), Xie F(1)(2)(3), Walton SM(1)(2)(3), Lee 
TA(1)(2)(3), Schwartz A(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Systems, Outcomes and Policy, University of Illinois 
at Chicago, Chicago, IL (EHL, ASP, SMW, TAL).
(2)Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence and Impact, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, ON, Canada (FX).
(3)Department of Medical Education, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, 
IL (AS).

OBJECTIVE: To compare and contrast EQ-5D-5L (5L) and EQ-5D-3L (3L) health state 
values derived from a common sample.
METHODS: Data from the 2017 US EQ-5D valuation study were analyzed. Value sets 
were estimated with random-effects linear regression based on composite time 
trade-off (cTTO) valuations for 3L and 5L health states with 2 approaches to 
model specification: main effects only and additional N3/N45 terms. Properties 
of the descriptive system and value set characteristics were compared by 
examining distributions of predicted index scores, ceiling effects, and 
single-level transition values from adjacent corner health states. Mean 
transition values were calculated for all predicted 3L and 5L health states and 
plotted against baseline index scores.
RESULTS: A total of 1062 respondents were included in the analysis. The observed 
mean cTTO values for the worst possible 3L and 5L health states were -0.423 and 
-0.343, respectively. The range of scale was larger with the 3L, compared to the 
5L, for both main effects and N term models. Values for the mildest 5L health 
states (range, 0.857-0.924) were similar to 11111 for the 3L. Parameter 
estimates for matched dimension levels differed by <|0.07| except for the most 
severe level of Mobility. For the main effects model, 3L mean transition values 
were greater for more severe baseline 3L index scores, whereas 5L mean 
transition values remained constant irrespective of the baseline index score.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared to the 3L, the 5L exhibited a lower ceiling effect and 
improved measurement properties. There was a larger range of scale for the 3L 
compared to 5L; however, this difference was driven by differences in preference 
for the most severe level of problems in Mobility.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X18802797
PMID: 30403577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Med Decis Making. 2018 Nov;38(8):983-993. doi: 10.1177/0272989X18808494.

Comparing the Performance of 2 Health Utility Measures in the Medicare Health 
Outcome Survey (HOS).

Jia H(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Lubetkin EI(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), DeMichele K(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), 
Stark DS(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Zack MM(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Thompson WW(1)(2)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Mailman School of Public Health and School of 
Nursing, Columbia University, New York, NY, (HJ).
(2)Department of Community Health and Social Medicine, CUNY School of Medicine, 
New York, NY (EIL).
(3)Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Baltimore, MD (KD, DSS).
(4)National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, US 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA (MMZ).
(5)National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, US 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA (WWT).

BACKGROUND: The Medicare Health Outcomes Survey (HOS), a nationwide annual 
survey of Medicare beneficiaries, includes the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention's HRQOL-4 questionnaire and Veterans RAND 12-item Health Survey 
(VR-12). This study compared EQ-5D scores derived from the HRQOL-4 (dEQ-5D) to 
SF-6D scores derived from VR-12.
METHODS: Data were from Medicare HOS Cohort 15 (2012 baseline; 2014 follow-up). 
We included participants aged 65+ ( n = 105,473). We compared score 
distributions, evaluated known-groups validity, assessed each index as a 
predictor for mortality, and estimated quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) using 
the dEQ-5D and SF-6D.
RESULTS: Compared to the SF-6D, the dEQ-5D had a higher mean score (0.787 v. 
0.691) and larger standard deviation (0.310 v. 0.101). The decreases in 
estimated scores associated with chronic conditions were greater for the dEQ-5D 
than for the SF-6D. For example, dEQ-5D scores for persons with depression 
decreased 0.456 points compared to 0.141 points for the SF-6D. The dEQ-5D 
strongly predicted mortality, as adjusted hazard ratios for the first to fourth 
quintiles, relative to the fifth quintile, were 2.2, 1.7, 1.8, and 1.5, 
respectively, while the association between SF-6D and mortality was weaker or 
nonexistent (adjusted hazard ratios were 1.3, 1.1, 1.0, and 0.6, respectively). 
Compared to the SF-6D, QALYs estimated using the dEQ-5D were higher overall (5.6 
v. 4.9 years), higher for persons with less debilitating conditions (e.g., 
hypertension, 5.0 v. 4.4 years), and lower for more debilitating conditions 
(e.g. depression, 2.5 v. 2.8 years).
CONCLUSIONS: Compared to the SF-6D, the dEQ-5D was better able to measure 
individuals' overall health; detect the differential impact of chronic 
conditions, particularly among persons in poorer health; and predict mortality. 
The HRQOL-4 questionnaire may be valuable for monitoring and improving health 
outcomes for the Medical HOS data set.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X18808494
PMID: 30403580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. PLoS One. 2018 Nov 7;13(11):e0205876. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0205876. 
eCollection 2018.

Value of information analysis of an early intervention for subthreshold panic 
disorder: Healthcare versus societal perspective.

Ophuis RH(1), Lokkerbol J(2), Haagsma JA(1), Hiligsmann M(3), Evers SMAA(2)(3), 
Polinder S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(2)Centre of Economic Evaluation, Trimbos Institute (Netherlands Institute for 
Mental Health and Addiction), Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Health Services Research, Care and Public Health Research 
Institute (CAPHRI), Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Panic disorder is associated with high productivity costs. These 
costs, which should be included in cost-effectiveness analyses (CEA) from a 
societal perspective, have a considerable impact on cost-effectiveness 
estimates. However, they are often omitted in published CEAs. It is therefore 
uncertain whether choosing a societal perspective changes priority setting in 
future research as compared to a healthcare perspective.
OBJECTIVES: To identify research priorities regarding the cost-effectiveness of 
an early intervention for subthreshold panic disorder using value of information 
(VOI) analysis and to investigate to what extent priority setting depends on the 
perspective.
METHODS: We calculated the cost-effectiveness of an early intervention for panic 
disorder from a healthcare perspective and a societal perspective. We performed 
a VOI analysis, which estimates the expected value of eliminating the 
uncertainty surrounding cost-effectiveness estimates, for both perspectives.
RESULTS: From a healthcare perspective the early intervention was more effective 
at higher costs compared to usual care (€17,144 per QALY), whereas it was 
cost-saving from a societal perspective. Additional research to eliminate 
parameter uncertainty was valued at €129.7 million from a healthcare perspective 
and €29.5 million from a societal perspective. Additional research on the early 
intervention utility gain was most valuable from a healthcare perspective, 
whereas from a societal perspective additional research would generate little 
added value.
CONCLUSIONS: Priority setting for future research differed substantially 
according to the perspective. Our study underlines that the health-economic 
perspective of CEAs on interventions for panic disorder must be chosen carefully 
in order to avoid inappropriate choices in research priorities.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0205876
PMCID: PMC6221282
PMID: 30403707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


741. BMC Health Serv Res. 2018 Nov 7;18(1):838. doi: 10.1186/s12913-018-3648-y.

Effects of a multifaceted intervention QI program to improve ICU performance.

Ersson A(1), Beckman A(2), Jarl J(3), Borell J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Intensive Care and Perioperative medicine, Skåne University 
Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(2)Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Family Medicine, Lund University, Jan 
Waldenströms gata 35, 205 02, Malmö, Sweden. anders.beckman@med.lu.se.
(3)Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Health Economics, Lund University, 
Malmö, Sweden.
(4)Department of Design Sciences, Faculty of Engineering, Lund University, Lund, 
Sweden.

BACKGROUND: To benefit from the increasing clinical evidence, organisational 
changes have been among the main drivers behind the reduction of ICU mortality 
during the last decade. Increasing demand, costs and complexity, amplifies the 
need for optimisation of clinical processes and resource utilisation. Thus, 
multidisciplinary teamwork and critical care processes needs to be adapted to 
profit from increased availability of human skill and technical resources in a 
cost-effective manner. Inadequate clinical performance and outcome data 
compelled us to design a quality improvement project to address current work 
processes and competence utilisation.
METHODS: During revision period, clinical processes, professional performance 
and clinical competence were targeted using "scientific production management 
methodology" approach. As part of the project, an intensivist training program 
was instituted, and full time intensivist coverage was obtained in the process 
of creating multi-professional teams, composed of certified intensivists, 
critical care nurses, assistant nurses, physiotherapists and social counsellors. 
The use of staff resources and clinical work-processes were optimised in 
accordance with the outcome of a "value stream mapping". In this process, 
efforts to enhance the personal dynamics and performance within the teams were 
paramount. Clinical and economic outcome data were analysed during a seven year 
follow up period.
RESULTS: • Consecutive reduced overall ICU (24%) and long-term (600 days) 
mortality. The effect on ICU mortality was especially pronounced in the subgroup 
of patients > 65 years (30%) • Consecutive reduced length of stay (43%, septic 
patients) and time on ventilator (for septic patients and patients > 65 years of 
age (23 resp.52%). • Substantial increase in life years gained (13,140 life 
years) as well as quality-adjusted life-years (9593 QALY: s) over the study 
period. • High cost-effectiveness as ICU costs were  reduced while patient 
outcomes were improved. Disregarding the cost reduction in ICU, the intervention 
is highly cost effective with cost- effectiveness ratios of (75€/QALY) and (55€ 
/ life year) CONCLUSIONS: We have shown favourable results of a QI project 
aiming to improve the clinical performance and quality through the development 
of multi-professional interaction, teamwork and systematic revisions of work 
processes. The economic evaluation shows that the intervention is highly 
cost-effective and potentially dominating.

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-018-3648-y
PMCID: PMC6223055
PMID: 30404646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: 
According to Swedish law, ethical approval is not required for QI–projects and 
monitoring of normal clinical practice. However, this project was performed 
according to ethical standard so that all clinical data were anonymously 
collected and there were no possibilities to identify individual patients in the 
dataset. All treatments were performed in compliance with standard 
evidence-based clinical practice and at the discretion of the treating 
physician. At admittance, all patients and their relatives were informed, 
verbally and in writing, that during the ICU stay, clinical data were 
continuously recorded and reported to regional and national ICU databases. This 
is a standard, nationally agreed procedure for performance and quality 
monitoring and part of normal ICU routines. The information also pointed out 
that given consent to this data retrieval was voluntary and could be withdrawn 
at any time. In that case, all data would be erased. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: 
Not applicable as not any details, images, or videos relating to an individual 
person is presented. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no 
competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with 
regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


742. J Cell Sci. 2018 Dec 12;131(24):jcs219527. doi: 10.1242/jcs.219527.

Cullin-3-KCTD10-mediated CEP97 degradation promotes primary cilium formation.

Nagai T(1), Mukoyama S(1), Kagiwada H(2), Goshima N(2), Mizuno K(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Chemical Life Sciences, Graduate School of Life 
Sciences, Tohoku University, Sendai, Miyagi 980-8578, Japan.
(2)Functional Proteomics Team, Molecular Profiling Research Center for Drug 
Discovery, National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, 
Tokyo 135-0064, Japan.
(3)Department of Molecular and Chemical Life Sciences, Graduate School of Life 
Sciences, Tohoku University, Sendai, Miyagi 980-8578, Japan 
kmizuno@biology.tohoku.ac.jp.

Primary cilia are antenna-like sensory organelles that transmit various 
extracellular signals. Ciliogenesis requires the removal of CP110 and its 
interactor CEP97 from the mother centriole for initiating ciliary axoneme 
extension, but the underlying mechanism remains unknown. Here we show that, upon 
serum starvation, CEP97 is partially degraded by the ubiquitin-proteasome 
system. CEP97 was polyubiquitylated in serum-starved cells, and overexpression 
of a non-ubiquitylatable CEP97 mutant effectively blocked CP110 removal and 
ciliogenesis induced by serum-starvation. Through several screening steps, we 
identified the cullin-3-RBX1-KCTD10 complex as the E3 ligase that mediates CEP97 
degradation and removal from the mother centriole. Depletion of each component 
of this E3 complex caused aberrant accumulation of CEP97 on the centrosome, 
suppressed the removal of CEP97 and CP110 from the mother centriole, and 
impaired ciliogenesis. Moreover, KCTD10 was specifically localized to the mother 
centriole. These results suggest that CEP97 degradation by the 
cullin-3-RBX1-KCTD10 complex plays a crucial role in serum-starvation-induced 
CP110 removal and ciliogenesis.

© 2018. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.

DOI: 10.1242/jcs.219527
PMID: 30404837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare no 
competing or financial interests.


743. Sensors (Basel). 2018 Nov 7;18(11):3812. doi: 10.3390/s18113812.

Wearable Hardware Design for the Internet of Medical Things (IoMT).

Qureshi F(1), Krishnan S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electrical, Computer, and Biomedical Engineering, Ryerson 
University, Toronto, ON M5B 2K3, Canada. fayez1.qureshi@ryerson.ca.
(2)Department of Electrical, Computer, and Biomedical Engineering, Ryerson 
University, Toronto, ON M5B 2K3, Canada. krishnan@ryerson.ca.

As the life expectancy of individuals increases with recent advancements in 
medicine and quality of living, it is important to monitor the health of 
patients and healthy individuals on a daily basis. This is not possible with the 
current health care system in North America, and thus there is a need for 
wireless devices that can be used from home. These devices are called biomedical 
wearables, and they have become popular in the last decade. There are several 
reasons for that, but the main ones are: expensive health care, longer wait 
times, and an increase in public awareness about improving quality of life. With 
this, it is vital for anyone working on wearables to have an overall 
understanding of how they function, how they were designed, their significance, 
and what factors were considered when the hardware was designed. Therefore, this 
study attempts to investigate the hardware components that are required to 
design wearable devices that are used in the emerging context of the Internet of 
Medical Things (IoMT). This means that they can be used, to an extent, for 
disease monitoring through biosignal capture. In particular, this review study 
covers the basic components that are required for the front-end of any 
biomedical wearable, and the limitations that these wearable devices have. 
Furthermore, there is a discussion of the opportunities that they create, and 
the direction that the wearable industry is heading in.

DOI: 10.3390/s18113812
PMCID: PMC6263646
PMID: 30405026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


744. Blood Cancer J. 2018 Nov 7;8(11):104. doi: 10.1038/s41408-018-0142-z.

Prefibrotic myelofibrosis: treatment algorithm 2018.

Finazzi G(1), Vannucchi AM(2), Barbui T(3).

Author information:
(1)Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplant Unit, ASST Papa Giovanni XXIII, 
Bergamo, Italy.
(2)Centro Ricerca e Innovazione delle Malattie Mieloproliferative (CRIMM), 
Azienda Ospedaliera-Universitaria Careggi, Firenze, Italy.
(3)FROM Research Foundation, ASST Papa Giovanni XXIII, Bergamo, Italy. 
tbarbui@asst-pg23.it.

Prefibrotic myelofibrosis (pre-PMF) is a distinct entity among chronic 
myeloproliferative neoplasm diagnosed according to the revised 2016 WHO 
classification. The clinical picture is heterogeneous, ranging from isolated 
thrombocytosis, mimicking essential thrombocythemia (ET), to symptoms of 
high-risk PMF. Retrospective studies showed that survival of patients with 
pre-PMF is worse than that of ET and better than overt PMF. Whilst a specific 
prognostic score is lacking, the International Prognostic Scoring System is able 
to predict survival in pre-PMF patients, yet failing to separate intermediate-1 
and -2 groups, and can be used in clinical practice. Each patient should be 
evaluated for, and interventions adapted to, both life-expectancy and the risk 
of bleeding and thrombosis. In low-risk patients with expected long survival, 
observation only is recommended; in cumulated intermediate-1 and -2 risk cases, 
whose median survival is projected at more than 10 years, treatment is based on 
symptoms; in high risk cases, with median survival lower than 5 years, intensive 
management is required. A pragmatic approach to address the risk of bleeding and 
thrombosis includes: no treatment or low-dose aspirin in asymptomatic patients; 
aspirin or oral anticoagulation if previous arterial or venous thrombosis, and 
hydroxyurea as first-line cytoreduction in case of thrombocytosis or 
leukocytosis.

DOI: 10.1038/s41408-018-0142-z
PMCID: PMC6221891
PMID: 30405096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


745. Front Immunol. 2018 Oct 22;9:2413. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.02413.
eCollection  2018.

PEGylated Domain I of Beta-2-Glycoprotein I Inhibits the Binding, Coagulopathic, 
and Thrombogenic Properties of IgG From Patients With the Antiphospholipid 
Syndrome.

McDonnell TCR(1), Willis R(2), Pericleous C(1), Ripoll VM(1), Giles IP(1), 
Isenberg DA(1)(3), Brasier AR(2), Gonzalez EB(2), Papalardo E(2), Romay-Penabad 
Z(2), Jamaluddin M(2), Ioannou Y(1)(3), Rahman A(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Medicine, Centre for Rheumatology Research, University College 
London, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Internal Medicine, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, United 
States.
(3)Arthritis Research UK Centre for Adolescent Rheumatology, UCL/UCLH/Great 
Ormond Street Hospital, London, United Kingdom.

APS is an autoimmune disease in which antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL) cause 
vascular thrombosis and pregnancy morbidity. In patients with APS, aPL exert 
pathogenic actions by binding serum beta-2-glycoprotein I (β2GPI) via its 
N-terminal domain I (DI). We previously showed that bacterially-expressed 
recombinant DI inhibits biological actions of IgG derived from serum of patients 
with APS (APS-IgG). DI is too small (7 kDa) to be a viable therapeutic agent. 
Addition of polyethylene glycol (PEGylation) to small molecules enhances the 
serum half-life, reduces proteolytic targeting and can decrease immunogenicity. 
It is a common method of tailoring pharmacokinetic parameters and has been used 
in the production of many therapies in the clinic. However, PEGylation of 
molecules may reduce their biological activity, and the size of the PEG group 
can alter the balance between activity and half-life extension. Here we achieve 
production of site-specific PEGylation of recombinant DI (PEG-DI) and describe 
the activities in vitro and in vivo of three variants with different size PEG 
groups. All variants were able to inhibit APS-IgG from: binding to whole β2GPI 
in ELISA, altering the clotting properties of human plasma and promoting 
thrombosis and tissue factor expression in mice. These findings provide an 
important step on the path to developing DI into a first-in-class therapeutic in 
APS.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.02413
PMCID: PMC6204385
PMID: 30405613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Front Genet. 2018 Oct 23;9:497. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2018.00497. eCollection
2018.

SNPs Associated With Testosterone Levels Influence Human Facial Morphology.

Roosenboom J(1), Indencleef K(2), Lee MK(1), Hoskens H(2), White JD(3), Liu 
D(4), Hecht JT(5), Wehby GL(6), Moreno LM(7), Hodges-Simeon C(8), Feingold E(4), 
Marazita ML(1)(4), Richmond S(9), Shriver MD(3), Claes P(2), Shaffer JR(1)(4), 
Weinberg SM(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Biology, Center for Craniofacial and Dental Genetics, 
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, United States.
(2)ESAT-PSI, Department of Electrical Engineering, Medical Imaging Research 
Center, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(3)Department of Anthropology, Penn State University, University Park, PA, 
United States.
(4)Department of Human Genetics, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, 
United States.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, University of Texas McGovern Medical Center, 
Houston, TX, United States.
(6)Department of Health Management and Policy, University of Iowa, Iowa City, 
IA, United States.
(7)Department of Orthodontics, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, United States.
(8)Department of Anthropology, Boston University, Boston, MA, United States.
(9)Applied Clinical Research and Public Health, School of Dentistry, Cardiff 
University, College of Biomedical and Life Sciences, Cardiff, United Kingdom.

Many factors influence human facial morphology, including genetics, age, 
nutrition, biomechanical forces, and endocrine factors. Moreover, facial 
features clearly differ between males and females, and these differences are 
driven primarily by the influence of sex hormones during growth and development. 
Specific genetic variants are known to influence circulating sex hormone levels 
in humans, which we hypothesize, in turn, affect facial features. In this study, 
we investigated the effects of testosterone-related genetic variants on facial 
morphology. We tested 32 genetic variants across 22 candidate genes related to 
levels of testosterone, sex hormone-binding globulin (SHGB) and 
dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) in three cohorts of healthy individuals 
for which 3D facial surface images were available (Pittsburgh 3DFN, Penn State 
and ALSPAC cohorts; total n = 7418). Facial shape was described using a recently 
developed extension of the dense-surface correspondence approach, in which the 
3D facial surface was partitioned into a set of 63 hierarchically organized 
modules. Each variant was tested against each of the facial surface modules in a 
multivariate genetic association-testing framework and meta-analyzed. 
Additionally, the association between these candidate SNPs and five facial 
ratios was investigated in the Pittsburgh 3DFN cohort. Two significant 
associations involving intronic variants of SHBG were found: both rs12150660 (p 
= 1.07E-07) and rs1799941 (p = 6.15E-06) showed an effect on mandible shape. 
Rs8023580 (an intronic variant of NR2F2-AS1) showed an association with the 
total and upper facial width to height ratios (p = 9.61E-04 and p = 7.35E-04, 
respectively). These results indicate that testosterone-related genetic variants 
affect normal-range facial morphology, and in particular, facial features known 
to exhibit strong sexual dimorphism in humans.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2018.00497
PMCID: PMC6206510
PMID: 30405702


747. Radiol Case Rep. 2018 Oct 30;14(2):151-155. doi:
10.1016/j.radcr.2018.10.014.  eCollection 2019 Feb.

Post-traumatic superior mesenteric venous thrombosis with subsequent extension 
to the portal vein.

Garaci FG(1), Vasili E(1), Bocchinfuso F(1), Lacchè A(1), Floris R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Faculty of Medicine and Surgery, Tor Vergata 
University, Viale Montpellier, 1, Rome 00133, Italy.

Acute superior mesenteric vein thrombosis was first described in 1935 by Warren 
and Eberhardt. It is a potentially life-threatening condition, as it can lead to 
bowel ischemia and, ultimately, infarction. Its etiology may be primary or 
secondary to acquired prothrombotic conditions. Early recognition of mesenteric 
venous thrombosis is important, but can be challenging due to its nonspecific 
clinical presentation. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography is currently the 
gold standard for diagnosis. Systemic anticoagulation and surgical resection of 
the necrotic segment are the two main treatments. Here, we describe a case of 
acute post-traumatic superior mesenteric vein thrombosis, which was treated with 
systemic anticoagulation and resection of the ischemic bowel segment, with 
subsequent extension of the thrombosis to the portal vein.

DOI: 10.1016/j.radcr.2018.10.014
PMCID: PMC6218702
PMID: 30405866


748. Neth Heart J. 2018 Dec;26(12):584-590. doi: 10.1007/s12471-018-1192-3.

Magnetic resonance imaging in patients with cardiac implantable electronic 
devices.

Maass AH(1), Hemels MEW(2)(3), Allaart CP(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Thorax center, University of Groningen, University 
Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. a.h.maass@umcg.nl.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Rijnstate Hospital, Arnhem, The Netherlands.
(3)Radboud University Hospital, University of Nijmegen, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Cardiology, Amsterdam Cardiovascular Sciences, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

In recent years the prevalence of implantation of a cardiac implantable 
electronic device (CIED) has increased due to expanding implantation indications 
and prolonged life expectancy. Diagnostic strategies increasingly employ 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to aid therapeutic strategies. In earlier 
guidelines, MRI was contra-indicated in patients with CIEDs, mainly due to 
previous reports of severe complications. With the development of 
MRI-conditional CIEDs and recent evidence concerning non-MRI-conditional CIEDs, 
MRIs in CIED patients can be safely performed in many hospitals.However, there 
are several questions that need to be addressed. Which patients can we scan? How 
can the scans be performed safely? And last but not least, can cardiac MRI 
provide diagnostic yield in patients with CIEDs?Current European guidelines are 
rather outdated and vague about patient selection and practical issues. There 
are national guidelines on this topic but several issues need extra attention 
and those are addressed in this point of view. It is important to create an 
environment with proper patient selection without unnecessary MRI scans in CIED 
patients, but also without unnecessary fear of complications, preventing access 
to MRI in patients who can benefit from this powerful diagnostic tool.

DOI: 10.1007/s12471-018-1192-3
PMCID: PMC6288036
PMID: 30406601

Conflict of interest statement: A.H. Maass received lecture fees from Medtronic 
and LivaNova. M.E.W. Hemels received lecture fees from Biotronik and LivaNova. 
C.P. Allaart received research grants from Boston Scientific and Abbott and 
lecture fees from Biotronik.


749. Psychol Addict Behav. 2019 Feb;33(1):26-34. doi: 10.1037/adb0000422. Epub
2018  Nov 8.

Alcohol, tobacco, and marijuana expectancies as predictors of substance use 
initiation in adolescence: A longitudinal examination.

Montes KS(1), Witkiewitz K(1), Pearson MR(1), Leventhal AM(2).

Author information:
(1)Center on Alcoholism, Substance Abuse, and Addictions, University of New 
Mexico.
(2)Department of Preventive Medicine, Keck School of Medicine, University of 
Southern California.

Outcome expectancies have been found to be predictive of substance use. While 
development of expectancies may be dynamic during adolescence, it is unknown 
whether the rate of change (slope) in substance use expectancies is a risk 
factor for use onset across multiple substance use domains. The present study 
tested the hypothesis that the slope of positive and negative alcohol, tobacco, 
and marijuana use expectancies during mid-adolescence (9th-10th grade) would 
predict use onset of each respective substance during late adolescence 
(11th-12th grade). Data from 3,396 ethnically diverse high school students were 
collected across eight waves of assessment and analyzed within a latent growth 
modeling framework. Results revealed that the slopes of positive substance use 
expectancies among never-users of each respective substance predicted increased 
odds of onset (Alcohol: ORB = 7.73, p < .001; Tobacco: ORB = 5.58, p < .001; 
Marijuana: ORB = 2.49, p = .001). Only the slope of negative marijuana 
expectancies predicted increased odds of onset (Marijuana: ORB = .44, p = .04). 
Baseline level of positive and negative substance use outcome expectancies were 
also generally found to be associated with onset. For three common drugs used by 
adolescents, change in substance use expectancies during the first two years of 
high school may be a marker of risk propensity for substance use onset. Change 
in expectancies may be an important target in substance use prevention, with 
research indicating that expectancy challenge and life skills interventions 
being potentially efficacious. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all 
rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/adb0000422
PMCID: PMC6367043
PMID: 30407027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Climacteric. 2019 Feb;22(1):34-37. doi: 10.1080/13697137.2018.1506435. Epub
2018  Nov 8.

Optimizing quality of life in perimenopause: lessons from the East.

Wang X(1), Ran S(2), Yu Q(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology , Peking Union Medical College 
Hospital, Peking Union Medical College and Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences , 
Beijing , China.
(2)b Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology , Beijing Chao-Yang Hospital, 
Capital Medical University , Chaoyang District , Beijing , China.

As global life expectancy improves, women are expected to spend more than 
one-third of their lives in the status of menopause. In China, many women suffer 
from menopausal symptoms during this period, which impacts their well-being and 
quality of life. However, most Chinese women simply endure menopausal symptoms. 
Since the Chinese Menopause Society was founded in 1999, several versions of the 
guidelines for menopause management and menopausal hormone therapy (MHT) have 
been published; international cooperation has strengthened; menopause-related 
activities have been advocated; and popular knowledge of menopause and MHT has 
gradually improved. Medical workers, menopausal women, and the general 
population have come to realize that MHT is the most effective treatment for 
menopausal symptoms and could improve quality of life. In addition to MHT, 
non-hormone management (traditional Chinese medicine, lifestyle changes, 
social/psychological interventions, dietary management, etc.) of menopausal 
symptoms is an important consideration, especially in situations when MHT is 
contra-indicated. This review summarizes the literature and research studies to 
help health care acknowledge the population and prevent underuse of effective 
therapies or use of inappropriate or ineffective therapies, which, in turn, is 
expected to improve public health management and women's quality of life. More 
efforts should be made to better disseminate the knowledge on perimenopausal 
management among Chinese women.

DOI: 10.1080/13697137.2018.1506435
PMID: 30407085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Health Technol Assess. 2018 Nov;22(61):1-114. doi: 10.3310/hta22610.

Oral steroids for hearing loss associated with otitis media with effusion in 
children aged 2-8 years: the OSTRICH RCT.

Francis NA(1), Waldron CA(2), Cannings-John R(2), Thomas-Jones E(2), Winfield 
T(3), Shepherd V(2), Harris D(2), Hood K(2), Fitzsimmons D(3), Roberts A(4), 
Powell CV(5), Gal M(1), Jones S(6), Butler CC(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Population Medicine, School of Medicine, Cardiff University, 
Cardiff, UK.
(2)Centre for Trials Research, Cardiff University, Cardiff, UK.
(3)College of Human and Health Sciences, Swansea University, Swansea, UK.
(4)Cardiff & Vale University Health Board, Child Health Directorate, St David's 
Children Centre, Cardiff, UK.
(5)Department of General Paediatrics, Children's Hospital for Wales, Cardiff, 
UK.
(6)Involving People Network, Health and Care Research Wales, Cardiff, UK.
(7)Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences, University of Oxford, 
Oxford, UK.

BACKGROUND: Children with hearing loss associated with otitis media with 
effusion (OME) are commonly managed through surgical intervention, hearing aids 
or watchful waiting. A safe, inexpensive, effective medical treatment would 
enhance treatment options. Small, poorly conducted trials have found a 
short-term benefit from oral steroids.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a 
7-day course of oral steroids in improving hearing at 5 weeks in children with 
persistent OME symptoms and current bilateral OME and hearing loss demonstrated 
by audiometry.
DESIGN: Double-blind, individually randomised, placebo-controlled trial.
SETTING: Ear, nose and throat outpatient or paediatric audiology and 
audiovestibular medicine clinics in Wales and England.
PARTICIPANTS: Children aged 2-8 years, with symptoms of hearing loss 
attributable to OME for at least 3 months, a diagnosis of bilateral OME made on 
the day of recruitment and audiometry-confirmed hearing loss.
INTERVENTIONS: A 7-day course of oral soluble prednisolone, as a single daily 
dose of 20 mg for children aged 2-5 years or 30 mg for 6- to 8-year-olds, or 
matched placebo.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Acceptable hearing at 5 weeks from randomisation. 
Secondary outcomes comprised acceptable hearing at 6 and 12 months, 
tympanometry, otoscopic findings, health-care consultations related to OME and 
other resource use, proportion of children who had ventilation tube (grommet) 
surgery at 6 and 12 months, adverse effects, symptoms, functional health status, 
health-related quality of life, short- and longer-term cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: A total of 389 children were randomised. Satisfactory hearing at 5 
weeks was achieved by 39.9% and 32.8% in the oral steroid and placebo groups, 
respectively (absolute difference of 7.1%, 95% confidence interval -2.8% to 
16.8%; number needed to treat = 14). This difference was not statistically 
significant. The secondary outcomes were consistent with the picture of a small 
or no benefit, and we found no subgroups that achieved a meaningful benefit from 
oral steroids. The economic analysis showed that treatment with oral steroids 
was more expensive and accrued fewer quality-adjusted life-years than treatment 
as usual. However, the differences were small and not statistically significant, 
and the sensitivity analyses demonstrated large variation in the results.
CONCLUSIONS: OME in children with documented hearing loss and attributable 
symptoms for at least 3 months has a high rate of spontaneous resolution. 
Discussions about watchful waiting and other interventions will be enhanced by 
this evidence. The findings of this study suggest that any benefit from a short 
course of oral steroids for OME is likely to be small and of questionable 
clinical significance, and that the treatment is unlikely to be cost-effective 
and, therefore, their use cannot be recommended.
FUTURE WORK: Studies exploring optimal approaches to sharing natural history 
data and enhancing shared decision-making are needed for this condition.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN49798431 and EudraCT 
2012-005123-32.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research 
(NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in 
Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 22, No. 61. See the NIHR Journals Library 
website for further project information.

DOI: 10.3310/hta22610
PMCID: PMC6253325
PMID: 30407151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Christopher C Butler is a National Institute for 
Health Research (NIHR) senior investigator. Kerenza Hood and Amanda Roberts are 
members of the NIHR Health Technology Assessment General Board. Kerenza Hood is 
a member of the NIHR Clinical Trials Unit Standing Committee.


752. Nucleic Acids Res. 2019 Jan 10;47(1):495-508. doi: 10.1093/nar/gky1116.

Structural insights into a unique preference for 3' terminal guanine of mirtron 
in Drosophila TUTase tailor.

Cheng L(1), Li F(1), Jiang Y(1), Yu H(1), Xie C(1)(2), Shi Y(1), Gong Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Science at the Microscale, School of 
Life Sciences, University of Science and Technology of China, 96 Jinzhai Road, 
Hefei, Anhui 230027, China.
(2)High Magnet Field Laboratory, Chinese Academy of Science, 50 Shushanhu Road, 
Hefei, Anhui 230031, China.

Terminal uridylyl transferase (TUTase) is one type of enzyme that modifies RNA 
molecules by facilitating the post-transcriptional addition of uridyl 
ribonucleotides to their 3' ends. Recent researches have reported that 
Drosophila TUTase, Tailor, exhibits an intrinsic preference for RNA substrates 
ending in 3'G, distinguishing it from any other known TUTases. Through this 
unique feature, Tailor plays a crucial role as the repressor in the biogenesis 
pathway of splicing-derived mirtron pre-miRNAs. Here we describe crystal 
structures of core catalytic domain of Tailor and its complexes with RNA 
stretches 5'-AGU-3' and 5'-AGUU-3'. We demonstrate that R327 and N347 are two 
key residues contributing cooperatively to Tailor's preference for 3'G, and R327 
may play an extra role in facilitating the extension of polyuridylation chain. 
We also demonstrate that conformational stability of the exit of RNA-binding 
groove also contributes significantly to Tailor's activity. Overall, our work 
reveals useful insights to explain why Drosophila Tailor can preferentially 
select RNA substrates ending in 3'G and provides important values for further 
understanding the biological significances of biogenesis pathway of mirtron in 
flies.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gky1116
PMCID: PMC6326804
PMID: 30407553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. PLoS One. 2018 Nov 8;13(11):e0207037. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0207037. 
eCollection 2018.

Cost-effectiveness of screening for chronic hepatitis B and C among migrant 
populations in a low endemic country.

Suijkerbuijk AWM(1), van Hoek AJ(2)(3), Koopsen J(2), de Man RA(4), Mangen 
MJ(2), de Melker HE(2), Polder JJ(1)(5), de Wit GA(1)(6), Veldhuijzen IK(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Nutrition, Prevention and Health Services, National Institute for 
Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), Bilthoven, the Netherlands.
(2)Centre for Infectious Disease Control, National Institute for Public Health 
and the Environment (RIVM), Bilthoven, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Faculty of Epidemiology and 
Population Health, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, 
United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(5)Tranzo Scientific Center for Care and Welfare, Tilburg School of Social and 
Behavioral Sciences, Tilburg University, Tilburg, The Netherlands.
(6)Julius Centre for Health Sciences and Primary Health Care, University Medical 
Centre Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Chronic infection with hepatitis B or C virus (HBV/HCV) can progress 
to cirrhosis, liver cancer, and even death. In a low endemic country as the 
Netherlands, migrants are a key risk group and could benefit from early 
diagnosis and antiviral treatment. We assessed the cost-effectiveness of 
screening foreign-born migrants for chronic HBV and/or HCV using a societal 
perspective.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness was evaluated using a Markov model. Estimates on 
prevalence, screening programme costs, participation and treatment uptake, 
transition probabilities, healthcare costs, productivity losses and utilities 
were derived from the literature. The cost per Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY) 
gained was estimated and sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: For most migrant groups with an expected high number of chronically 
infected cases in the Netherlands combined screening is cost-effective, with 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) ranging from €4,962/QALY gained 
for migrants originating from the Former Soviet Union and Vietnam to €9,375/QALY 
gained for Polish migrants. HBV and HCV screening proved to be cost-effective 
for migrants from countries with chronic HBV or HCV prevalence of ≥0.41% and 
≥0.22%, with ICERs below the Dutch cost-effectiveness reference value of 
€20,000/QALY gained. Sensitivity analysis showed that treatment costs influenced 
the ICER for both infections.
CONCLUSIONS: For most migrant populations in a low-endemic country offering 
combined HBV and HCV screening is cost-effective. Implementation of targeted HBV 
and HCV screening programmes to increase early diagnosis and treatment is 
important to reduce the burden of chronic hepatitis B and C among migrants.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0207037
PMCID: PMC6224111
PMID: 30408079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


754. PLoS One. 2018 Nov 8;13(11):e0207132. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0207132. 
eCollection 2018.

Regorafenib treatment for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma who progressed 
on sorafenib-A cost-effectiveness analysis.

Shlomai A(1)(2), Leshno M(3), Goldstein DA(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine D and the Liver Institute, Rabin Medical Center, 
Petach-Tikva, Israel.
(2)The Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Ramat Aviv, Israel.
(3)Coller School of Management, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(4)Institute of Oncology, Davidoff Cancer Center, Rabin Medical Center, 
Petach-Tikva, Israel.
(5)Department of Health Policy and Management, Gillings School of Global Public 
Health, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, United States of America.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the leading causes 
of cancer related deaths. Patients with advanced HCC are treated with sorafenib. 
A recent randomized controlled trial demonstrated a survival benefit for 
regorafenib treatment in patients with advanced HCC who had progressed on 
sorafenib. We aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of this approach.
METHODS: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of regorafenib, we used a Markov 
model that incorporates health outcomes, measured by life-years and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Drug costs were based on 2017 discounted 
prices. Model robustness was validated by probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
using Monte Carlo simulations.
RESULTS: The use of regorafenib results in a gain of 19.76 weeks of life (0.38 
Life Years) as compared to placebo. When adjusted for quality of life, using 
regorafenib produced a gain of 0.25 quality adjusted life years (QALYs). The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for regorafenib compared with best 
supportive care was between $201,797 and $268,506 per QALY.
CONCLUSION: The modest incremental benefit at a relatively high incremental cost 
of regorafenib treatment suggests that it is not cost-effective at commonly 
accepted willingness to pay thresholds.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0207132
PMCID: PMC6224101
PMID: 30408106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


755. Int J Health Plann Manage. 2019 Jan;34(1):e824-e843. doi: 10.1002/hpm.2699.
Epub  2018 Nov 8.

Politics and health outcomes: A path analytic approach.

Cinaroglu S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care Management, Faculty of Economics and Administrative 
Sciences (FEAS), Hacettepe University, Ankara, Turkey.

Social and health policies and political participation are associated with each 
political tradition related to public health outcomes. However, there is a lack 
of evidence for the relationship between policy and outcomes. This study seeks 
to determine the relationship between politics, labour and welfare state 
indicators, economic inequality, and health outcome indicators. Data to test the 
model was obtained from the Turkish Statistical Institute (TurkStat) that 
belongs to the 81 provinces of Turkey. Path analysis was used to model the 
associations between policy, labour and welfare states, economic inequality, and 
health outcomes. To test the goodness of fit of the model, multiple criteria of 
model fit indices were utilised. The fit of the respecified path analytic model 
data is good (normed fit index [NFI] is 0.91, comparative fit index [CFI] is 
0.92, goodness of fit index [GFI] is 0.91, and adjusted goodness of fit index 
[AGFI] is 0.93). Study results illustrate a strong relationship between voter 
partisanship, employment rate, satisfaction from both social security and health 
services, and life expectancy at birth and mortality. These results represent an 
important step towards understanding the elusive relationship between policy and 
health outcomes. Designing socially inclusive policies, considering labour 
market opportunities, and enhancing the population's well-being are advisable 
strategies for policymakers who wish to optimise public health outcomes.

© 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hpm.2699
PMID: 30408228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Rev Med Virol. 2019 Jan;29(1):e2014. doi: 10.1002/rmv.2014. Epub 2018 Nov 8.

Influenza vaccine: Where are we and where do we go?

Keshavarz M(1), Mirzaei H(2), Salemi M(3), Momeni F(4), Mousavi MJ(5)(6), 
Sadeghalvad M(6), Arjeini Y(7), Solaymani-Mohammadi F(7), Sadri Nahand J(1), 
Namdari H(6), Mokhtari-Azad T(7), Rezaei F(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Virology, School of Medicine, Iran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Research Center for Biochemistry and Nutrition in Metabolic Diseases, Kashan 
University of Medical Sciences, Kashan, Iran.
(3)Department of Genomics and Genetic Engineering, Razi Vaccine and Serum 
Research Institute (RVSRI), Agricultural Research, Education and Extension 
Organization (AREEO), Karaj, Iran.
(4)Thalassemia and Hemoglobinopathy Research Center, Health Research Institute, 
Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran.
(5)Department of Immunology and Allergy, Faculty of Medicine, Bushehr University 
of Medical Sciences, Bushehr, Iran.
(6)Department of Medical Immunology, School of Medicine, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Department of Virology, School of Public Health, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

The alarming rise of morbidity and mortality caused by influenza pandemics and 
epidemics has drawn attention worldwide since the last few decades. This 
life-threatening problem necessitates the development of a safe and effective 
vaccine to protect against incoming pandemics. The currently available flu 
vaccines rely on inactivated viral particles, M2e-based vaccine, live attenuated 
influenza vaccine (LAIV) and virus like particle (VLP). While inactivated 
vaccines can only induce systemic humoral responses, LAIV and VLP vaccines 
stimulate both humoral and cellular immune responses. Yet, these vaccines have 
limited protection against newly emerging viral strains. These strains, however, 
can be targeted by universal vaccines consisting of conserved viral proteins 
such as M2e and capable of inducing cross-reactive immune response. The lack of 
viral genome in VLP and M2e-based vaccines addresses safety concern associated 
with existing attenuated vaccines. With the emergence of new recombinant viral 
strains each year, additional effort towards developing improved universal 
