
DOI: 10.2147/CEOR.S185743
PMCID: PMC6231515
PMID: 30510436

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure Dr Lorenzo Pradelli is the coowner 
and an employee of AdRes and has received project funding from LivaNova. 
Massimiliano Povero is an employee of AdRes and has received project funding 
from LivaNova. Dr Antonio Miceli, Dr Matteo Ferrarini, and Dr Mattia Glauber are 
consultants for LivaNova. Matteo Pinciroli is an employee and holds stock 
options of LivaNova. This study was financially supported by LivaNova. The 
authors report no other conflicts of interest in this work.


72. Nepal J Epidemiol. 2017 Dec 31;7(4):702-712. doi: 10.3126/nje.v7i4.20627. 
eCollection 2017 Dec.

Life expectancy and years of life lost in HIV patients under the care of 
BandarAbbas Behavioral Disorders Counseling Center.

Yaghoobi H(1), Ahmadinia H(2), Shabani Z(3), Vazirinejad R(4), Safari R(5), 
Shahizadeh R(6), Zolfizadeh F(7), Rezaeian M(8).

Author information:
(1)MSc Student in Epidemiology, Social Determinants in Health Promotion Research 
Center, Hormozgan University of Medical Sciences, BandarAbbas, Iran.
(2)PhD Student in Biostatistics, Department of Biostatistics, Hamadan University 
of Medical Sciences, Hamadan, Iran.
(3)Associate professor of infectious diseases, Immunology of Infectious Diseases 
Research Center, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
(4)Professor, PhD of Epidemiology, Social Determinants of Health Research 
Centre, Rafsanjan University of Medical Science, Rafsanjan, Iran.
(5)MD, Province Health Center and Research Deputy of Hormozgan University, 
Hormozgan University of Medical Sciences, BandarAbbas, Iran.
(6)Expert Professional Management Services for Disease Prevention. Deputy of 
Hormozgan University of Medical Sciences, BandarAbbas, Iran.
(7)MSc in Health Care Management, Mother and Child Welfare Research Center, 
Hormozgan University of Medical Sciences, BandarAbbas, Iran.
(8)Epidemiology and Biostatistics Department, Rafsanjan Medical School, 
Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, IR Iran.

BACKGROUND: HIV epidemic is mostly targeted adults and has numerous negative 
health, social, economic, cultural and political consequences. In this study 
Life Expectancy (LE) and Average Years of Life Lost (AYLL) in HIV/AIDS patients 
are estimated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this descriptive study all the patients at the age of 
18 and more under the care of BandarAbbas Behavioral Disorders Counseling Center 
(BBDCC) during 2005-2015 are included. The town of BandarAbbas is center of 
Hormozgan Province in southern Iran. LE and AYLL have been estimated based on 
Life Table.
RESULTS: One hundred thirty four of the 426 eligible patients died during the 
study period. Compared to the general population LE for HIV/AIDS patients at age 
20 is 46 years less in comparison with the general population of BandarAbbas. 
Moreover, a total of 8839 years of life lost during 2005-2015.
CONCLUSION: LE in HIV/AIDS patients is less than LE among BandarAbbas general 
population and AYLL among them is more than general population. Most of the 
years of life lost are preventable if the health care system seriously will 
implement programs to control HIV/AIDS.

DOI: 10.3126/nje.v7i4.20627
PMCID: PMC6204067
PMID: 30510838

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: All authors have declared 
that they have no conflict of interest.


73. Mol Nutr Food Res. 2019 Mar;63(5):e1800735. doi: 10.1002/mnfr.201800735. Epub
 2018 Dec 12.

Dietary Methionine Restriction Upregulates Endogenous H(2) S via miR-328-3p: A 
Potential Mechanism to Improve Liver Protein Metabolism Efficiency in a Mouse 
Model of High-fat-diet-induced Obesity.

Wu G(1)(2), Wang Y(2), Yang Y(2), Shi Y(1)(2), Sun J(1)(2), Xu Y(2), Luo T(2), 
Le G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi, 214122, P. R. China.
(2)Center for Food Nutrition and Functional Food Engineering, School of Food 
Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214122, P. R. China.

SCOPE: Dietary methionine restriction (MR) promotes multifaceted health 
benefits. Moreover, lower rate of protein synthesis by dietary MR is associated 
with life span extension. The goal of this work is to explore how dietary MR 
would affect protein metabolism in a mouse model of high-fat-diet-induced 
obesity (DIO).
METHODS AND RESULTS: DIO mice (male C57BL/6) are subjected to dietary MR for 
22 weeks. High-throughput sequencing technology, qRT-PCR analysis, and the dual 
luciferase reporter assay are performed to verify that MiR-328-3p directly 
targets cystathionine γ-lyase (CSE) to modulate endogenous H2 S production. 
Moreover, indicators of endogenous H2 S, fractional synthesis rate (FSR), 
fractional growth rate (FGR), fractional degradation rate (FDR), and protein 
retention efficiency (PRE) are analyzed. MR results in an increase in endogenous 
H2 S to relieve oxidative stress and ER stress to improve protein homeostasis 
and metabolic efficiency in DIO mice.
CONCLUSION: Results show that dietary MR increases endogenous H2 S production 
via miR-328-3p. Furthermore, these results suggest the potential involvement of 
endogenous H2 S on the efficiency of protein metabolism in dietary MR.

© 2018 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/mnfr.201800735
PMID: 30512228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Rev Prat. 2017 Dec;67(10):1084-1088.

[Actinic keratosis and squamous cell carcinoma of the elderly].

[Article in French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]

Colboc H(1), Meaume S(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de gériatrie - plaies et cicatrisation, hôpital Rothschild, 
Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, France.

Actinic keratosis and squamous cell carcinoma in the elderly. The increase in 
life expectancy and the change in the habits of the population with respect to 
UV exposure have led to an increase in the incidence of actinic keratosis (AK) 
and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). There is no specific recommendation for the 
"frail" elderly, but they would not differ much from the recommendations of the 
younger subjects. AK are common: 1 in 3 men and 1 in 5 women after 70 years. In 
the absence of treatment, the AK can evolve towards a SCC, justifying the 
interest of a systematic and early management of the AK by cryotherapy (liquid 
nitrogen), dynamic phototherapy, cream containing 5-fluorouracil (5(FU), 
imiquimod or ingenuous mebutate. Incidence of SCC is also important in the 
elderly and especially in mans. It can be localized on skin or mucosa. There are 
forms of SCC in situ or Bowen disease, cutaneous or mucosal, accessible to 
cryotherapy, 5-FU, imiquimod or dynamic phototherapy as an alternative to 
surgery. The SCC presents a mainly local evolutionary risk, with involvement of 
adjacent noble organs, but also regional, with significant risk of lymph node 
metastases, and visceral (lungs, liver in particular). The treatment must be 
supervised by a multidisciplinary team. If the patient has cognitive disorders, 
the presence of the "person of trust" is possible. At best the presence of a 
geriatrician or onco-geriatrician is recommended. Most often active treatment 
will be considered and surgical excision is the standard treatment. If general 
anesthesia is required, the limitation may be at this time of management because 
of significant co-morbidities. For inoperable SCC radiotherapy and 
radiochemotherapy are sometimes proposed. Metastatic SCC is complex in elderly 
patients because chemotherapy is poorly tolerated.

Publisher: Kératose actinique et carcinomes épidermoïdes du sujet âgé. 
L’augmentation de l’espérance de vie et la modification des habitudes de la 
population vis-à-vis de l’exposition aux rayons ultraviolets ont conduit à 
l’augmentation d’incidence des kératoses actiniques et des carcinomes 
épidermoïdes cutanés. Il n’existe pas de recommandation spécifique pour le sujet 
très âgé « fragile » mais elles ne différeraient pas beaucoup des 
recommandations concertant les sujets plus jeunes. Les kératoses actiniques sont 
fréquentes : 1 homme sur 3 et 1 femme sur 5 après 70 ans. En l’absence de 
traitement, les kératoses actiniques peuvent évoluer vers un carcinome 
épidermoïde, justifiant l’intérêt d’une prise en charge systématique et précoce 
des kératoses actiniques par cryothérapie (azote liquide), photothérapie 
dynamique, crème à base de 5-fluoro-uracile (5-FU), imiquimod ou mébutate 
d’ingénol. Le carcinome épidermoïde cutané est à risque de métastase, son 
incidence est également importante chez le sujet âgé et surtout chez l’homme. Il 
peut être de localisation cutanée ou muqueuse. Il existe des formes de carcinome 
épidermoïde in situ ou maladie de Bowen cutanée ou muqueuse accessibles à la 
cryothérapie, au 5-FU, à l’imiquimod ou à la photothérapie dynamique en 
alternative à la chirurgie. Le carcinome épidermoïde a un risque évolutif 
principalement local, avec atteinte des organes nobles adjacents, mais également 
régional, avec un risque non négligeable de métastases ganglionnaires et 
viscérales (poumons, foie en particulier). La prise en charge doit être encadrée 
par une réunion de concertation pluridisciplinaire, en présence éventuellement 
de la personne de confiance si le patient a des troubles cognitifs ; au mieux, 
la présence d’un gériatre ou oncogériatre est recommandée lors de cette réunion. 
Le plus souvent, un traitement actif est envisagé, et l’exérèse chirurgicale est 
le traitement de référence. Si une anesthésie générale est requise, des 
comorbidités importantes peuvent être une limitation à un geste chirurgical. 
Pour les carcinomes épidermoïdes inopérables, la radiothérapie externe, la 
curiethérapie et la radiochimiothérapie sont parfois proposées. Les carcinomes 
épidermoïdes métastatiques sont de traitement complexe chez le sujet âgé car les 
chimiothérapies sont mal supportées.

PMID: 30512606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: H. Colboc déclare n’avoir aucun lien d’intérêts. 
S. Meaume déclare des liens ponctuels avec Medidev, Contavec, Mölnlycke, Urgo, 
Carpenter, Genevrier, Lohmann et Rauscher, Sinclair, Smith et Nephew, Olympus, 
Inresa, 3M, La Roche Posay, SVR, Alere.


75. Rev Prat. 2017 Apr;67(4):440-443.

[Bariatric surgery: technical characteristics].

[Article in French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]

Bruzzi M(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie digestive, hôpital européen Georges-Pompidou, université 
Paris-Descartes, Paris, France. ANCRE, EA 4465, université Paris-Descartes, 
Paris, France.

Bariatric surgery: technical characteristics. Morbid obesity has become a major 
public health problem, and the most effective treatment in the long-term, 
recognized by the experts, is bariatric surgery. This treatment significantly 
improves weight loss, obesity related comorbidities, but also quality of life 
and life expectancy. It changes the digestive physiology using two major 
principles: the gastric restriction (in order to reduce the food intake) and the 
intestinal malabsorption (in order to reduce the food absorption). Experts speak 
about restrictive procedures (adjustable gastric banding, Sleeve gastrectomy) or 
mixed procedures (Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, one-anastomosis gastric bypass, 
bilio-pancreatic derivations). Unfortunately, there is no "ideal" procedure for 
a specific patient. The surgical procedure must be safe and efficient, and its 
choice depends of the surgeon's experience and the patient's choice. To date, 
the Roux-en-Y gastric bypass remains the gold standard treatment for morbid 
obesity.

Publisher: Aspects techniques de la chirurgie de l'obésité. L’obésité très 
sévère ou de classe 3 (indice de masse corporel ≥40 kg/m2) est un problème 
majeur de santé publique dont le traitement le plus efficace à long terme, 
reconnu par les sociétés savantes, est la chirurgie bariatrique. Celle-ci 
améliore significativement le poids, les comorbidités associées à l’obésité, 
mais aussi la qualité et l’espérance de vie, en modifiant la physiologie 
digestive selon deux grands principes : la restriction gastrique (diminuer la 
quantité d’aliments ingérés) et la malabsorption intestinale (diminuer 
l'absorption intestinale des aliments). On parle alors de techniques 
restrictives pures (anneau gastrique, sleeve gastrectomie) ou de techniques 
mixtes (bypass en Y, bypass en oméga, dérivations bilio-pancréatiques). 
Malheureusement, il n’existe pas aujourd’hui d’intervention idéale pour un 
patient donné. L’intervention doit être la plus sûre et la plus efficace, et son 
choix dépend principalement de l’expérience du chirurgien, et du choix du 
patient luimême. À ce jour, le bypass gastrique en Y est le traitement de 
référence de l’obésité morbide.

PMID: 30512893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: L’auteur déclare n’avoir aucun lien d’intérêts.


76. Rev Prat. 2017 Apr;67(4):444-449.

[Consequences and complications of bariatric surgery].

[Article in French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]

Souche FR(1), De Jong A(2), Skalli EM(1), Brunaud L(3), Nocca D(1).

Author information:
(1)Université de Montpellier, CHRU de Montpellier, département de chirurgie 
digestive, hôpital Saint-Éloi, Montpellier, France.
(2)Université de Montpellier, CHRU Montpellier, département 
d'anesthésieréanimation B, hôpital Saint-Éloi, Montpellier, France.
(3)Université de Lorraine, service de chirurgie digestive, hépatobiliaire, 
endocrinienne et carcinologique, CHU de Nancy, hôpital de Brabois, 
Vandoeuvre-lès-Nancy, France.

Consequences and complications of bariatric surgery. Bariatric surgery has a 
functional role (improvement of quality of life), a prevention role (increase in 
life expectancy, reduction of risk of cancer and cardiovascular disease) and a 
curative role (remission of diabetes mellitus, obstructive sleep apnea syndrome 
and arterial hypertension). The laparoscopic approach for bariatric surgery led 
to a major reduction of postoperative morbi-mortality and promotes its expansion 
with 49 000 procedures in 2015 (French PMSI data). Types and rates of 
complications after bariatric surgery vary according to the procedure. The 
efficiency of each technique is closely related to its morbi-mortality rate. 
This concept explains the disparity concerning the choice of the adequate 
procedure for the patient according to the bariatric team. The risk/benefits 
balance evaluation must be analyzed case-by-case by each specialist of the 
multidisciplinary bariatric staff and explained to the patients before final 
decision. This preoperative period (6-12 months) is crucial to select good 
candidates for bariatric surgery and contributes to the reduction of 
postoperative complications. A multidisciplinary surveillance for life is 
mandatory to prevent and treat late complications of bariatric surgery related 
to undernutrition.

Publisher: Conséquences et complications de la chirurgie de l’obésité. La 
chirurgie de l’obésité peut être qualifiée de fonctionnelle (amélioration de la 
qualité de vie), préventive (allongement de la durée de vie des patients, 
diminution du risque de cancer ou de pathologies cardiovasculaires), et curative 
(rémission du diabète de type 2, du syndrome d’apnées du sommeil, de 
l’hypertension artérielle). Grâce à l’avènement des techniques laparoscopiques 
qui a permis de diminuer de manière importante la morbidité des différentes 
opérations, elle a connu un essor extraordinaire ces dernières années, avec 
environ 49 000 actes opératoires réalisés en 2015 (données PMSI). Les 
complications de ce type d’opérations, qui doivent être réalisées dans des 
centres experts, varient en fonction de la complexité de la procédure. Plus une 
technique est efficace, plus le taux de morbi-mortalité est élevé. Cette 
constatation explique en partie la disparité, trouvée notamment en France, dans 
le choix de l’opération suivant les équipes pluridisciplinaires. L’évaluation du 
rapport bénéfices-risques doit être analysée et expliquée au patient par les 
différents professionnels de santé intervenant dans la décision collégiale 
délivrée au cours d’une réunion de concertation pluridisciplinaire. Ce chemin 
clinique préopératoire, qui varie obligatoirement de 6 à 12 mois suivant les 
cas, joue un rôle prépondérant dans la sélection des bons candidats et de ce 
fait dans la diminution du risque de survenue de complications en phase per- ou 
postopératoire. Un suivi pluridisciplinaire spécialisé régulier du patient est 
indispensable à vie, quelle que soit la procédure réalisée afin de prévenir et 
de traiter les complications plus tardives de la chirurgie de l’obésité liées à 
la dénutrition.

PMID: 30512894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: F.-R. Souche déclare n’avoir aucun lien 
d’intérêts. A. de Jong déclare avoir été pris en charge lors de congrès par 
Astellas. E. M. Skalli déclare des actions de formation pour Ethicon SAS et 
avoir été pris en charge lors de congrès par cette même entreprise. L. Brunaud 
déclare avoir été pris en charge lors de congrès par Ethicon. D. Nocca déclare 
des liens durables avec Ethicon, Gore, Olympus et MID ; des liens ponctuels avec 
Covidien et MSD ; et avoir été pris en charge lors d’un congrès par Ethicon.


77. Expert Rev Clin Pharmacol. 2019 Jan;12(1):31-44. doi: 
10.1080/17512433.2019.1553615. Epub 2018 Dec 21.

The clinical pharmacology of integrase inhibitors.

Di Perri G(1), Calcagno A(1), Trentalange A(1), Bonora S(1).

Author information:
(1)a The Infectious Diseases Unit, Department of Medical Sciences, School of 
Medicine , The University of Torino , Torino , Italy.

Introduction: Treatment of HIV infection has consistently evolved in the last 
three decades. A steady improvement in efficacy tolerability, safety, and 
practical aspects of treatment intake has made HIV infection much easier to 
manage over the long term, and in optimal treatment conditions the life 
expectancy of persons living with HIV infection now approaches the values of the 
general population. The last category of antiretrovirals to be fully developed 
for clinical use is the one of strand-transfer integrase inhibitors (INSTIs). 
Areas covered: In this review, the evolution of the knowledge on INSTIs use in 
the clinical setting is reviewed, analyzed, and interpreted. Emphasis is placed 
on the properties possibly accounting for several superiority results achieved 
by INSTIs in non-inferiority designed comparative clinical trials, which led to 
their inclusion as first line options in all versions of HIV therapeutic 
guidelines. Expert commentary: Some unprecedented clinical-pharmacological 
properties of INSTIs, such as their rapid and sustained action against HIV 
replication, the optimal tolerability and safety profile and a clinically proven 
robust genetic barrier are the main factors justifying the successful clinical 
use of INSTIs. Based on these unique features, novel INSTIs-based treatment 
modalities are being developed, including the reduction of antiretroviral 
regimens to two drugs only.

DOI: 10.1080/17512433.2019.1553615
PMID: 30513008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Popul Health Manag. 2019 Oct;22(5):385-393. doi: 10.1089/pop.2018.0143. Epub 
2018 Dec 4.

Measuring Population Health in a Large Integrated Health System to Guide Goal 
Setting and Resource Allocation: A Proof of Concept.

Stevens ER(1)(2), Zhou Q(1), Nucifora KA(1), Taksler GB(3), Gourevitch MN(1), 
Stiefel MC(4), Kipnis P(4), Braithwaite RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Health, New York University School of Medicine, New 
York, New York.
(2)New York University College of Global Public Health, New York, New York.
(3)Medicine Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio.
(4)Center for Population Health, Kaiser Permanente, Oakland, California.

In integrated health care systems, techniques that identify successes and 
opportunities for targeted improvement are needed. The authors propose a new 
method for estimating population health that provides a more accurate and 
dynamic assessment of performance and priority setting. Member data from a large 
integrated health system (n = 96,246, 73.8% female, mean age = 44 ± 0.01 years) 
were used to develop a mechanistic mathematical simulation, representing the top 
causes of US mortality in 2014 and their associated risk factors. An age- and 
sex-matched US cohort served as comparator group. The simulation was 
recalibrated and retested for validity employing the outcome measure of 5-year 
mortality. The authors sought to estimate potential population health that could 
be gained by improving health risk factors in the study population. Potential 
gains were assessed using both average life years (LY) gained and average 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained. The simulation validated well 
compared to integrated health system data, producing an AUC (area under the 
curve) of 0.88 for 5-year mortality. Current population health was estimated as 
a life expectancy of 84.7 years or 69.2 QALYs. Comparing potential health gain 
in the US cohort to the Kaiser Permanente cohort, eliminating physical 
inactivity, unhealthy diet, smoking, and uncontrolled diabetes resulted in an 
increase of 1.5 vs. 1.3 LY, 1.1 vs. 0.8 LY, 0.5 vs. 0.2 LY, and 0.5 vs. 0.5 LY 
on average per person, respectively. Using mathematical simulations may inform 
efforts by integrated health systems to target resources most effectively, and 
may facilitate goal setting.

DOI: 10.1089/pop.2018.0143
PMCID: PMC8024359
PMID: 30513070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest. This study was funded in part by Kaiser Permanente Southern 
California and in part by the New York University School of Medicine Department 
of Population Health.


79. Acta Cardiol. 2020 Feb;75(1):10-19. doi: 10.1080/00015385.2018.1534769. Epub 
2018 Dec 4.

Outcome postponement as a potential patient centred measure of therapeutic 
benefit: examples in cardiovascular medicine.

Ennezat PV(1), Le Jemtel T(2), Cosgrove S(3), Hallas J(4)(5), Hansen MR(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Centre Hospitalier Régional Universitaire Grenoble-Alpes, Service de 
Cardiologie, Grenoble, France.
(2)Tulane School of Medicine, Tulane University Heart and Vascular Institute, 
New Orleans, LA, USA.
(3)Mater Misericordiae University Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.
(4)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Pharmacy, University of Southern 
Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(5)Department of Clinical Biochemistry and Pharmacology, Odense University 
Hospital, Odense, Denmark.

Background: The impact of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) depends heavily on 
the presentation of the findings.Objective: Classically, RCT findings are 
presented in the form of absolute risk reduction (ARR), number needed to treat 
(NNT) to prevent one adverse outcome, and relative risk reduction (RRR) or 
hazard ratio (the most favourable means for drug marketing). However, the 
estimation of average survival gain (i.e. outcome postponement between a trial 
intervention and comparator) is an alternative and informative means of 
presenting the findings of RCTs.Study selection: Recent cardiovascular RCTs 
evaluating ezetimibe added to simvastatin, evolocumab, canakinumab, ticagrelor, 
rivaroxaban, ivabradine, LCZ 696 (sacubitril/valsartan), and transfemoral aortic 
valve replacement are analysed and discussed.Findings: The average survival 
gains ranged between 4.9 days on a composite end point with ticagrelor versus 
clopidogrel in randomised patients with acute coronary syndrome and 117 days of 
life expectancy obtained with TAVR versus standard therapy in patients with 
severe aortic stenosis deemed ineligible for surgery.Conclusions: Using outcome 
postponement as an additional measure of treatment effect is likely to be more 
easily understood than hazard ratio or RRR by both patients and physicians and 
could help when evaluating drugs.

DOI: 10.1080/00015385.2018.1534769
PMID: 30513258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Nutrients. 2018 Dec 3;10(12):1888. doi: 10.3390/nu10121888.

Administration of Momordica charantia Enhances the Neuroprotection and Reduces 
the Side Effects of LiCl in the Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease.

Huang HJ(1), Chen SL(2), Chang YT(3), Chyuan JH(4), Hsieh-Li HM(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Mackay Junior College of Medicine, Nursing and 
Management, Taipei 11260, Taiwan. camera0207@yahoo.com.tw.
(2)Department of Life Science, National Taiwan Normal University, Taipei 11677, 
Taiwan. minnie13689@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Life Science, National Taiwan Normal University, Taipei 11677, 
Taiwan. siphinie@gmail.com.
(4)Hualien District Agriculture Research and Extension Station, Hualien 97365, 
Taiwan. jonghoc@hdares.gov.tw.
(5)Department of Life Science, National Taiwan Normal University, Taipei 11677, 
Taiwan. hmhsieh@ntnu.edu.tw.

Recently, the use of natural food supplements to reduce the side effects of 
chemical compounds used for the treatment of various diseases has become 
popular. Lithium chloride (LiCl) has some protective effects in neurological 
diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, its toxic effects on 
various systems and some relevant interactions with other drugs limit its 
broader use in clinical practice. In this study, we investigated the in vitro 
and in vivo pharmacological functions of LiCl combined with Momordica charantia 
(MC) in the treatment of AD. The in vitro results show that the order of the 
neuroprotective effect is MC5, MC3, MC2, and MC5523 under hyperglycemia or tau 
hyperphosphorylation. Therefore, MC5523 (80 mg/kg; oral gavage) and/or LiCl 
(141.3 mg/kg; intraperitoneal injection) were applied to ovariectomized (OVX) 
3×Tg-AD female and C57BL/6J (B6) male mice that received intracerebroventricular 
injections of streptozotocin (icv-STZ, 3 mg/kg) for 28 days. We found that the 
combined treatment not only increased the survival rate by reducing 
hepatotoxicity but also increased neuroprotection associated with anti-gliosis 
in the icv-STZ OVX 3×Tg-AD mice. Furthermore, the cotreatment with MC5523 and 
LiCl prevented memory deficits associated with reduced neuronal loss, gliosis, 
oligomeric Aβ level, and tau hyperphosphorylation and increased the expression 
levels of synaptic-related protein and pS9-GSK3β (inactive form) in the icv-STZ 
B6 mice. Therefore, MC5523 combined with LiCl could be a potential strategy for 
the treatment of AD.

DOI: 10.3390/nu10121888
PMCID: PMC6316175
PMID: 30513908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


81. Cancer Res Treat. 2019 Jul;51(3):1135-1143. doi: 10.4143/crt.2018.392. Epub
2018  Nov 29.

Prognostic Implications of Extranodal Extension in Relation to Colorectal Cancer 
Location.

Kim CW(1), Kim J(2), Park Y(2), Cho DH(3), Lee JL(1), Yoon YS(1), Park IJ(1), 
Lim SB(1), Yu CS(1), Kim JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Institute of Innovative Cancer Research, Asan Medical 
Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Pathology, Institute of Innovative Cancer Research, Asan 
Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(3)School of Life Science, Kyungpook National University, Daegu, Korea.

Erratum in
    Cancer Res Treat. 2021 Jul;53(3):893.

PURPOSE: Extranodal extension (ENE) is closely associated with the 
aggressiveness of both colon and rectal cancer. This study evaluated the 
clinicopathologic significance and prognostic impact of ENE in separate 
populations of patients with colon and rectal cancers.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The medical records of 2,346 patients with colorectal 
cancer (CRC) who underwent curative surgery at our institution between January 
2003 and December 2011 were clinically and histologically reviewed.
RESULTS: ENE was associated with younger age, advanced tumor stage, 
lymphovascular invasion (LVI), and perineural invasion (PNI) in both colon and 
rectal cancer. ENE rates differed significantly in patients with right colon 
(36.9%), left colon (42.6%), and rectal (48.7%) cancers (right vs. left, 
p=0.037; left vs. rectum, p=0.009). The 5-year disease-free survival (DFS) rate 
according to ENE status and primary tumor site differed significantly in 
patients with ENE-negative colon cancer (80.5%), ENE-negative rectal cancer 
(77.4%), ENE-positive colon cancer (68.6%), and ENE-positive rectal cancer 
(64.2%) (p<0.001). Multivariate analysis showed that advanced tumor stage, ENE, 
LVI, PNI, and absence of adjuvant chemotherapy were independently prognostic of 
reduced DFS in colon and rectal cancer patients.
CONCLUSION: ENE is closely associated with the aggressiveness of colon and 
rectal cancers, with its frequency increasing from the right colon to the left 
colon to the rectum. ENE status is a significant independent predictor of DFS in 
CRC patients irrespective of tumor location. ENE might be more related with 
distally located CRC.

DOI: 10.4143/crt.2018.392
PMCID: PMC6639205
PMID: 30514068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest relevant to this article 
was not reported.


82. Rev Recent Clin Trials. 2019;14(1):24-30. doi: 
10.2174/1574887114666181204105208.

Malignant Pleural Effusion: Still a Long Way to Go.

Meriggi F(1).

Author information:
(1)Oncology Department - Poliambulanza Foundation, Brescia, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Malignant pleural effusion, which is a common clinical problem in 
patients with cancer, may be due to both primary thoracic tumours or to a 
metastatic spread in the chest and constitutes the first sign of disease in 
approximately 10% of patients. Almost all cancers can potentially produce a 
pleural effusion. The presence of malignant tumour cells in the pleural fluid is 
generally indicative of advanced disease and is associated with high morbidity 
and mortality with reduced therapeutic options. Dyspnoea during mild physical 
activity or at rest is generally the typical sign of restrictive respiratory 
failure.
METHODS: This is a systematic review of all the main articles in the English 
language on the topic of malignant pleural effusion and reported by the Pubmed 
database from 1959 to 2018. I reviewed the literature and guidelines with the 
aims to focus on what is known and on future pathways to follow the diagnosis 
and treatment of malignant pleural effusions.
RESULTS: The main goal of palliation of a malignant pleural effusion is a quick 
improvement in dyspnoea, while thoracentesis under ultrasound guidance is the 
treatment of choice for patients with a limited life expectancy or who are not 
candidates for more invasive procedures such as drainage using an indwelling 
small pleural catheter, chemical pleurodesis with sclerosing agents, pleurectomy 
or pleuro-peritoneal shunt.
CONCLUSION: Despite progress in therapeutic options, the prognosis remains 
severe, and the average survival is 4-9 months from the diagnosis of malignant 
pleural effusion. Moreover, mortality is higher for patients with malignant 
pleural effusion compared with those with metastatic cancer but no malignant 
pleural effusion. Therefore, the prognosis of these patients primarily depends 
on the underlying disease and the extension of a primary tumour. This review 
focuses on the most relevant updates in the management of malignant pleural 
effusion.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1574887114666181204105208
PMID: 30514193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. BMC Cancer. 2018 Dec 4;18(1):1206. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-5107-x.

Projected lifetime cancer risks from occupational radiation exposure among 
diagnostic medical radiation workers in South Korea.

Lee WJ(1), Choi Y(2), Ko S(3), Cha ES(3), Kim J(4), Kim YM(5), Kong KA(6), Seo 
S(7), Bang YJ(3), Ha YW(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Korea University College of Medicine, 73, 
Inchon-ro, Seongbuk-gu, Seoul, 02841, South Korea. leewj@korea.ac.kr.
(2)Seoul Workers' Health Center, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Department of Preventive Medicine, Korea University College of Medicine, 73, 
Inchon-ro, Seongbuk-gu, Seoul, 02841, South Korea.
(4)Department of Preventive Medicine, Keimyung University School of Medicine, 
Daegu, South Korea.
(5)Department of Statistics, Kyungpook National University, Daegu, South Korea.
(6)Department of Preventive Medicine, College of Medicine, Ewha Womans 
University, Seoul, South Korea.
(7)Laboratory of Low Dose Risk Assessment, National Radiation Emergency Medical 
Center, Korea Institute of Radiological and Medical Sciences, Seoul, South 
Korea.

BACKGROUND: Timely assessment of cancer risk from current radiation exposure 
among medical radiation workers can contribute to the development of strategies 
to prevent excessive occupational radiation exposure. The purpose of the present 
study is to estimate the lifetime risk of cancers induced by occupational 
radiation exposure among medical radiation workers.
METHODS: Using estimated organ doses and the RadRAT risk assessment tool, the 
lifetime cancer risk was estimated among medical radiation workers who were 
enrolled in the Korean National Dose Registry from 1996 to 2011. Median doses 
were used for estimating the risk because of the skewed distribution of 
radiation doses. Realistic representative exposure scenarios in the study 
population based on sex, job start year, and occupational group were created for 
calculating the lifetime attributable risk (LAR) and lifetime fractional risk 
(LFR).
RESULTS: The mean estimated lifetime cancer risk from occupational radiation 
exposure varied significantly by sex and occupational group. The highest LAR was 
observed in male and female radiologic technologists who started work in 1991 
(264.4/100,000 and 391.2/100,000, respectively). Female workers had a higher 
risk of radiation-related excess cancer, although they were exposed to lower 
radiation doses than male workers. The higher LAR among women was attributable 
primarily to excess breast and thyroid cancer risks. LARs among men were higher 
than women in most other cancer sites. With respect to organ sites, LAR of colon 
cancer (44.3/100,000) was the highest in male radiologic technologists, whereas 
LAR of thyroid cancer (222.0/100,000) was the highest in female radiologic 
technologists among workers who started radiologic practice in 1991. Thyroid and 
bladder cancers had the highest LFR among radiologic technologists.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings provide an assessment of the potential cancer risk 
from occupational radiation exposure among medical radiation workers, based on 
current knowledge about radiation risk. Although the radiation-related risk was 
small in most cases, it varied widely by sex and occupational group, and the 
risk would be underestimated due to the use of median, rather than mean, doses. 
Therefore, careful monitoring is necessary to optimize radiation doses and 
protect medical radiation workers from potential health risks, particularly 
female radiologic technologists.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-018-5107-x
PMCID: PMC6278159
PMID: 30514249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The 
present study was reviewed and approved by the Institutional Review Board of 
Korea University (1040548-KU-IRB-16-203-A-1). This was a registry-based study 
without personal contact and consent to participate was not required. CONSENT 
FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that 
they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains 
neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


84. BMJ. 2018 Dec 4;363:k5118. doi: 10.1136/bmj.k5118.

US life expectancy falls for third year in a row.

Dyer O(1).

Author information:
(1)Montreal, Canada.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.k5118
PMID: 30514705


85. BMJ Evid Based Med. 2019 Apr;24(2):55-58. doi: 10.1136/bmjebm-2018-111103.
Epub  2018 Dec 4.

Cross-sectional study of loss of life expectancy at different ages related to 
firearm deaths among black and white Americans.

Kalesan B(1)(2), Vyliparambil MA(3), Zuo Y(1), Siracuse JJ(4), Fagan JA(5), 
Branas CC(6), Galea S(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(2)Department of Community Health Sciences, Boston University School of Public 
Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Public Health, College of Health Sciences, University of 
Massachusetts Lowell, Lowell, Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Department of Surgery, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(5)Law School and Department of Epidemiology, Columbia University, New York, New 
York, USA.
(6)Department of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia 
University, New York, NY, USA.
(7)Department of Epidemiology, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA.

Understanding the life years lost by assault and suicide due to firearms among 
white and black Americans can help us understand the race-specific and 
intent-specific firearm mortality burden and inform prevention programmes. The 
objective was to assess national and race-specific life expectancy loss related 
to firearms in the USA due to assault and suicide. We used firearm mortality 
data available from Wide-ranging Online Data for Epidemiologic Research to 
calculate the life expectancy loss between 2000 and 2016 separately for assaults 
and suicides among white and black Americans. The total national life expectancy 
loss due to firearms was 2.48 (2.23 whites, 4.14 blacks) years. The total life 
expectancy loss in years due to firearm assault was 0.95 (0.51 whites, 3.41 
blacks) and suicide was 1.43 (1.62 whites, 0.60 blacks), respectively. Firearm 
life expectancy loss in years at birth, 20, 40 and 60 years of age was 0.29 
(0.22 whites, 0.56 blacks), 0.25 (0.21 whites, 0.47 blacks), 0.09 (0.10 whites, 
0.08 blacks) and 0.03 (0.03 whites, 0.01 blacks) years. National firearm life 
expectancy loss in days from 20 to 60 years declined by 79.5 (65.8 whites, 166.3 
blacks); for assault by 37.5 (18.9 whites, 141.0 blacks) and suicides by 38.7 
(43.9 whites, 20.3 blacks). Americans lose substantial years of life due to 
firearm injury. This loss in life years is characterised by a large racial gap 
by age and intent. Tailored prevention programmes are needed to reduce this loss 
and lessen the racial gaps.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2019. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjebm-2018-111103
PMID: 30514715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


86. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2019 Mar;14(1):9-15. doi: 10.1007/s11481-018-9823-4.
 Epub 2018 Dec 5.

Molecular Imaging of Neuroinflammation in HIV.

Boerwinkle A(1), Ances BM(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Washington University in Saint Louis, Box 8111, 660 
South Euclid Ave, St. Louis, MO, 63110, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Washington University in Saint Louis, Box 8111, 660 
South Euclid Ave, St. Louis, MO, 63110, USA. bances@wustl.edu.
(3)Hope Center for Neurological Disorders, Washington University in St. Louis, 
St. Louis, MO, 63110, USA. bances@wustl.edu.

The development of combined antiretroviral therapy (cART) has increased the 
lifespan of persons living with HIV (PLWH), with most PLWH having a normal life 
expectancy. While significant progress has occurred, PLWH continue to have 
multiple health complications, including HIV associated neurocognitive disorders 
(HAND). While the exact cause of HAND is not known, persistent neuroinflammation 
is hypothesized to be an important potential contributor. Molecular imaging 
using positron emission tomography (PET) can non-invasively evaluate 
neuroinflammation. PET radiotracers specific for increased expression of the 
translocator protein18kDa (TSPO) on activated microglia can detect the presence 
of neuroinflammation in PLWH. However, results from these studies have been 
inconsistent and inconclusive. Future studies are needed to address key 
limitations that continue to persist with these techniques before accurate 
conclusions can be drawn regarding the role of persistent neuroinflammation in 
PLWH.

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-018-9823-4
PMCID: PMC6391180
PMID: 30515624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Pharmacoeconomics. 2019 Jan;37(1):105-116. doi: 10.1007/s40273-018-0752-0.

Q-TWiST Analysis to Assess Benefit-Risk of Pembrolizumab in Patients with 
PD-L1-Positive Advanced or Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer.

Huang M(1), Pietanza MC(2), Samkari A(2), Pellissier J(2), Burke T(2), Chandwani 
S(2), Kong F(2), Pickard AS(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Observational and Real-world Evidence, Merck & Co., Inc., 2000 
Galloping Hill Road, Kenilworth, NJ, USA. Min_Huang@merck.com.
(2)Centre for Observational and Real-world Evidence, Merck & Co., Inc., 2000 
Galloping Hill Road, Kenilworth, NJ, USA.
(3)Second City Outcomes Research, 414 North Richland Ave., Oak Park, IL, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Pembrolizumab monotherapy showed significantly longer overall 
survival and fewer treatment-related adverse events compared to chemotherapy in 
patients with advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with 
programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1)-positive tumors in the first-line setting in 
KEYNOTE (KN)-024 and in those previously treated in KN010. The objective of this 
analysis was to assess the benefit-risk of pembrolizumab in terms of 
quality-adjusted survival amongst patients in these trials.
METHODS: The Quality-adjusted Time Without Symptoms of disease progression or 
Toxicity of treatment (Q-TWiST) analysis was used to compare treatments. 
Survival time was partitioned into three health states: with toxicity before 
disease progression, without toxicity before disease progression, and disease 
progression until death. Health state utilities were estimated using EuroQol-5 
Dimensions, 3 Levels (EQ-5D-3L) data collected in the trials. Q-TWiST was 
calculated as the utility-weighted sum of the mean health state durations. Trial 
data analyzed included the primary analysis and subsequent data cutoffs. The 
base-case analysis was based on the most recent analysis of the trials.
RESULTS: Patients randomized to pembrolizumab had 2.49 months greater Q-TWiST (P 
value < 0.001) compared to those randomized to platinum-based chemotherapy at a 
follow-up of 24 months in KN024, and 2.29 months greater Q-TWiST (P 
value < 0.001) compared to docetaxel over 30 months follow-up in KN010. Results 
across the trial analyses showed an increase in trend for the Q-TWiST 
improvement of pembrolizumab over time.
CONCLUSIONS: Pembrolizumab showed significant improvement in Q-TWiST compared to 
chemotherapy in advanced or metastatic NSCLC in both previously untreated and 
treated patients. The benefits of pembrolizumab continued to accrue with longer 
follow-ups.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-018-0752-0
PMCID: PMC6323104
PMID: 30515719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Br J Haematol. 2019 Mar;184(5):753-759. doi: 10.1111/bjh.15708. Epub 2018 Dec
4.

Response duration and survival shorten after each relapse in patients with 
follicular lymphoma treated in the rituximab era.

Rivas-Delgado A(1), Magnano L(2)(3), Moreno-Velázquez M(4), García O(4), Nadeu 
F(5)(3), Mozas P(1), Dlouhy I(1), Baumann T(1)(3), Rovira J(1), González-Farre 
B(6)(3), Martínez A(6)(3), Balague O(6)(3), Delgado J(1)(3), Villamor N(2)(3), 
Giné E(1)(3), Campo E(2)(5)(3), Sancho-Cia JM(4), López-Guillermo A(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Hospital Clínic, Institut d'Investigacions 
Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Haematopathology Unit, Department of Pathology, Hospital Clínic, Institut 
d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain.
(3)CIBERONC, Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Haematology Department, ICO-IJC-Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol, Universitat 
Autonoma de Barcelona, Badalona, Spain.
(5)Lymphoid Neoplasm Program, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i 
Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Department of Pathology, Hospital Clínic, Institut d'Investigacions 
Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Spain.

Follicular lymphoma (FL) is an indolent disease characterized by long survival 
but frequent relapses. Before the introduction of rituximab, the clinical course 
of these patients showed a shorter response duration (RD) after each relapse. In 
this study, we analysed if this pattern of shortened responses remains in 
patients treated in the rituximab era. We selected 348 patients newly diagnosed 
with FL in two institutions between 2001 and 2014 that received 
chemoimmunotherapy. After a median follow-up of 6·3 years, 10-year 
progression-free and overall survivals were 53% and 72%, respectively. All 
patients received first-line, 111 second-line and 41 third-line treatments, with 
a 5-year RD of 62%, 39% and 24%, respectively (P < 0·0001). Variables predicting 
longer RD after first-line treatment were normal β2microglobulin, complete 
remission achievement and maintenance with rituximab. Patients with longer RD 
after first-line showed significantly longer RD after second-line therapy. 
Autologous stem-cell transplantation after second-line therapy did not 
significantly impact RD. Median survival after first, second and third therapies 
was not reached, 7·6 and 4·8 years, respectively, whereas relative survival with 
respect to a sex- and age-matched Spanish population, the decrease in the life 
expectancy at 10 years was 17%, 45% and 79%, respectively. Thus, RD still 
shortens after each relapse in patients with FL treated in first line with 
rituximab combinations.

© 2018 British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bjh.15708
PMID: 30515755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Cell Prolif. 2019 Mar;52(2):e12543. doi: 10.1111/cpr.12543. Epub 2018 Dec 4.

Ivermectin induces cell cycle arrest and apoptosis of HeLa cells via 
mitochondrial pathway.

Zhang P(1), Zhang Y(1), Liu K(2), Liu B(3), Xu W(1), Gao J(4), Ding L(1), Tao 
L(1).

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Chemical Biology, School of Pharmacy, East China 
University of Science and Technology, Shanghai, China.
(2)Shandong Key Laboratory of Chemical Medicine, Shandong Academy of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Jinan, China.
(3)Vegetable Technical Extension Station Qingpu District Shanghai, Shanghai, 
China.
(4)College of Life and Environmental Sciences, Shanghai Normal University, 
Shanghai, China.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of study was to investigate the anticancer activities of 
Ivermectin (IVM) and the possible mechanisms in cells level via cell 
proliferation inhibition, apoptosis and migration inhibition in model cancer 
cell HeLa.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The MTT assay was used to study the inhibitory effect of 
IVM on the proliferation of Hela cells, and the cell cycle was analysed by flow 
cytometry. The neutral comet assay was used to study the DNA damage. The 
presence of apoptosis was confirmed by DAPI nuclear staining and flow cytometry. 
Changes in mitochondrial membrane potential and reactive oxygen species (ROS) 
levels were determined using Rhodamine 123 staining and DCFH-DA staining. 
Western blot analysis for apoptosis-related proteins was carried out. We use 
scratch test to analyse the antimigration potential of IVM.
RESULTS: Ivermectin can inhibit the viability of HeLa cells significantly. In 
addition, treatment with IVM resulted in cell cycle arrest at the G1/S phase 
which partly account for the suppressed proliferation. Typical apoptosis 
morphological changes were shown in IVM treatment cells including DNA 
fragmentation and chromatin condensation. At the same time, the results of flow 
cytometry analysis showed that the number of apoptotic cells increased 
significantly with the increase of IVM concentration. Moreover, we observed that 
the mitochondrial membrane potential collapses and the ratio of Bax/Bcl-2 in the 
cytoplasm increases, which induces cytochrome c release from the mitochondria to 
the cytoplasm, activates caspase-9/-3 and finally induces apoptosis. We also 
found that IVM can significantly increase intracellular ROS content. At the same 
time, we determined that IVM can significantly inhibit the migration of HeLa 
cells.
CONCLUSIONS: Our experimental results show that IVM might be a new potential 
anticancer drug for therapy of human cancer.

© 2018 The Authors. Cell Proliferation Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cpr.12543
PMCID: PMC6496724
PMID: 30515909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


90. Palliat Med. 2019 Feb;33(2):221-231. doi: 10.1177/0269216318816005. Epub 2018
 Dec 5.

An assisted structured reflection on life events and life goals in advanced 
cancer patients: Outcomes of a randomized controlled trial (Life InSight 
Application (LISA) study).

Kruizinga R(1), Scherer-Rath M(2), Schilderman JB(2), Hartog ID(3), Van Der Loos 
JP(4), Kotzé HP(5), Westermann AM(1), Klümpen HJ(1), Kortekaas F(6), 
Grootscholten C(7), Bossink F(8), Schrama J(9), Van De Vrande W(10), Schrama 
NA(11), Blokland W(12), De Vos FY(13), Kuin A(14), Meijer WG(15), Van Oijen 
MG(1), Sprangers MA(3), Van Laarhoven HW(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Medical Oncology, University of Amsterdam and Academic 
Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)2 Faculty of Philosophy, Theology and Religious Studies, Radboud University, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(3)3 Department of Medical Psychology, University of Amsterdam and Academic 
Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)4 Stichting Sant'Egidio Nederland, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)5 Department of Pastoral Care, University of Amsterdam and Academic Medical 
Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)6 Department of Counselling and Care, Netherlands Cancer Institute-Antoni van 
Leeuwenhoek, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)7 Department of Gastroentero-Oncology, Netherlands Cancer Institute-Antoni 
van Leeuwenhoek, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(8)8 Department of Pastoral Care, Spaarne Gasthuis, Haarlem, The Netherlands.
(9)9 Department of Medical Oncology, Spaarne Gasthuis, Haarlem, The Netherlands.
(10)10 Department of Pastoral Care and Ethics, Elkerliek Ziekenhuis, Helmond, 
The Netherlands.
(11)11 Department of Medical Oncology, Elkerliek Ziekenhuis, Helmond, The 
Netherlands.
(12)12 UMC Utrecht Cancer Center, Department of Existential Orientation & 
Spiritual Care, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(13)13 UMC Utrecht Cancer Center, Department of Medical Oncology, University 
Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(14)14 Department of Pastoral Care, Westfriesgasthuis, Hoorn, The Netherlands.
(15)15 Department of Medical Oncology, Westfriesgasthuis, Hoorn, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Diagnosis and treatment of incurable cancer as a life-changing 
experience evokes difficult existential questions.
AIM: A structured reflection could improve patients’ quality of life and 
spiritual well-being. We developed an interview model on life events and 
ultimate life goals and performed a randomized controlled trial to evaluate the 
effect thereof on quality of life and spiritual well-being.
DESIGN: The intervention group had two consultations with a spiritual counselor. 
The control group received care as usual. EORTC QLQ-C15-PAL and the FACIT-sp 
were administered at baseline and 2 and 4 months after baseline. Linear mixed 
model analysis was performed to test between-group differences over time.
PARTICIPANTS: Adult patients with incurable cancer and a life expectancy 
⩾6 months were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to the intervention or control group.
RESULTS: A total of 153 patients from six different hospitals were included: 77 
in the intervention group and 76 in the control group. Quality of life and 
spiritual well-being did not significantly change over time between groups. The 
experience of Meaning/Peace was found to significantly influence quality of life 
(β = 0.52, adj. R2 = 0.26) and satisfaction with life (β = 0.61, adj. 
R2 = 0.37).
CONCLUSION: Although our newly developed interview model was well perceived by 
patients, we were not able to demonstrate a significant difference in quality of 
life and spiritual well-being between groups. Future interventions by spiritual 
counselors aimed at improving quality of life, and spiritual well-being should 
focus on the provision of sources of meaning and peace.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216318816005
PMCID: PMC6529670
PMID: 30516096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


91. J Public Health Dent. 2020 Mar;80 Suppl 1:S23-S30. doi: 10.1111/jphd.12296.
Epub  2018 Dec 5.

From high definition precision healthcare to precision public oral health: 
opportunities and challenges.

Slavkin HC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Craniofacial Molecular Biology, Division of Biomedical Sciences, 
Ostrow School of Dentistry, University of Southern California, CA, Los Angeles, 
USA.
(2)Previous Director of the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial 
Research (NIDCR), National Institutes of Health (NIH), MD, Bethesda, USA.

In anticipation of a major transformation in healthcare, this review provides 
highlights that anticipate the near future for oral public health (and beyond). 
Personalized or precision healthcare reflects the expectation that advances in 
genomics, imaging, and other domains will extend our risk assessment, 
diagnostic, and prognostic capabilities, and enables more effective prevention 
and therapeutic options for all Americans. Meanwhile, the current healthcare 
system does not meet cost, access, or quality criteria for all Americans. It is 
