(9)i Department of Radiation Oncology , University Medical Center Utrecht , 
Utrecht , The Netherlands.
(10)j Department of Radiotherapy and Radiation Oncology , Faculty of Medicine 
and University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, Technische Universität Dresden , 
Dresden , Germany.
(11)k Helmholtz-Zentrum Dresden - Rossendorf, Institute of Radiooncology - 
OncoRay , Dresden , Germany.
(12)l German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Partner Site Dresden, and German Cancer 
Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany.
(13)m m National Center for Tumor Diseases (NCT) Partner Site Dresden, Faculty 
of Medicine and University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, Technische Universität 
Dresden, and Helmholtz Association/Helmholtz-Zentrum Dresden, Rossendorf (HZDR), 
Dresden, Germany.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Patients with low-grade glioma (LGG) have a prolonged 
survival expectancy due to better discriminative tumor classification and 
multimodal treatment. Consequently, long-term treatment toxicity gains 
importance. Contemporary radiotherapy techniques such as intensity-modulated 
radiotherapy (IMRT), volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT), tomotherapy (TOMO) 
and intensity-modulated proton therapy (IMPT) enable high-dose irradiation of 
the target but they differ regarding delivered dose to organs at risk (OARs). 
The aim of this comparative in silico study was to determine these dosimetric 
differences in delivered doses.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Imaging datasets of 25 LGG patients having undergone 
postoperative radiotherapy were included. For each of these patients, in silico 
treatment plans to a total dose of 50.4 Gy to the target volume were generated 
for the four treatment modalities investigated (i.e., IMRT, VMAT, TOMO, IMPT). 
Resulting treatment plans were analyzed regarding dose to target and surrounding 
OARs comparing IMRT, TOMO and IMPT to VMAT.
RESULTS: In total, 100 treatment plans (four per patient) were analyzed. 
Compared to VMAT, the IMPT mean dose (Dmean) for nine out of 10 (90%) OARs was 
statistically significantly (p < .02) reduced, for TOMO this was true in 3/10 
(30%) patients and for 1/10 (10%) patients for IMRT. IMPT was the prime modality 
reducing dose to the OARs followed by TOMO.
DISCUSSION: The low dose volume to the majority of OARs was significantly 
reduced when using IMPT compared to VMAT. Whether this will lead to a 
significant reduction in neurocognitive decline and improved quality of life is 
to be determined in carefully designed future clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1080/0284186X.2018.1529424
PMID: 30474448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. AIDS Res Ther. 2018 Nov 24;15(1):22. doi: 10.1186/s12981-018-0211-1.

Ageing in patients with chronic HIV infection: impact of hypercoagulation.

Kent SJ(1)(2)(3), Flexner C(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Peter Doherty Institute for 
Infection and Immunity, University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC, 3010, 
Australia. skent@unimelb.edu.au.
(2)Melbourne Sexual Health Centre and Department of Infectious Diseases, Alfred 
Health, Central Clinical School, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia. 
skent@unimelb.edu.au.
(3)ARC Centre of Excellence in Convergent Bio-Nano Science and Technology, 
University of Melbourne, Parkville, Australia. skent@unimelb.edu.au.
(4)Divisions of Clinical Pharmacology and Infectious Diseases, School of 
Medicine and Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.

Ageing is the result of biological events that progressively and irreversibly 
compromise the function of vital organs and eventually result in death. There is 
a general perception that ageing is accelerated in people living with HIV, with 
an increasing body of evidence to support this view. With the introduction of 
effective antiretroviral therapy, the life expectancy of people living with HIV 
has improved. Since people with HIV are living longer than previously, while 
also ageing faster than the general population, there is an increase in 
HIV-positive patients living with age-related comorbidities. This brief overview 
of ageing and HIV discusses aspects of the complications of HIV infection as 
they impact the ageing process. How diseases of age affect patients with HIV 
provides clues to help unravel the interactions between HIV and ageing that 
ultimately should help clinicians understand the basis of 'normal' ageing and 
manage ageing HIV-positive patients more effectively.

DOI: 10.1186/s12981-018-0211-1
PMCID: PMC6260879
PMID: 30474565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Pharmacoeconomics. 2019 Feb;37(2):119-130. doi: 10.1007/s40273-018-0749-8.

Future Costs in Cost-Effectiveness Analyses: Past, Present, Future.

de Vries LM(1), van Baal PHM(2), Brouwer WBF(2).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus School of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. l.m.devries@eshpm.eur.nl.
(2)Erasmus School of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

There has been considerable debate on the extent to which future costs should be 
included in cost-effectiveness analyses of health technologies. In this article, 
we summarize the theoretical debates and empirical research in this area and 
highlight the conclusions that can be drawn for current practice. For future 
related and future unrelated medical costs, the literature suggests that 
inclusion is required to obtain optimal outcomes from available resources. This 
conclusion does not depend on the perspective adopted by the decision maker. 
Future non-medical costs are only relevant when adopting a societal perspective; 
these should be included if the benefits of non-medical consumption and 
production are also included in the evaluation. Whether this is the case 
currently remains unclear, given that benefits are typically quantified in 
quality-adjusted life-years and only limited research has been performed on the 
extent to which these (implicitly) capture benefits beyond health. Empirical 
research has shown that the impact of including future costs can be large, and 
that estimation of such costs is feasible. In practice, however, future 
unrelated medical costs and future unrelated non-medical consumption costs are 
typically excluded from economic evaluations. This is explicitly prescribed in 
some pharmacoeconomic guidelines. Further research is warranted on the 
development and improvement of methods for the estimation of future costs. 
Standardization of methods is needed to enhance the practical applicability of 
inclusion for the analyst and the comparability of the outcomes of different 
studies. For future non-medical costs, further research is also needed on the 
extent to which benefits related to this spending are captured in the 
measurement and valuation of health benefits, and how to broaden the scope of 
the evaluation if they are not sufficiently captured.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-018-0749-8
PMCID: PMC6386050
PMID: 30474803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Linda M. de Vries, Pieter H.M. van Baal, and 
Werner B.F. Brouwer have no conflicts of interest that are directly relevant to 
the contents of this article.


955. J Chem Theory Comput. 2019 Jan 8;15(1):436-447. doi:
10.1021/acs.jctc.8b00831.  Epub 2018 Dec 24.

Application of the ChIMES Force Field to Nonreactive Molecular Systems: Water at 
Ambient Conditions.

Lindsey RK(1), Fried LE(1), Goldman N(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Physical and Life Sciences Directorate , Lawrence Livermore National 
Laboratory , Livermore , California 94550 , United States.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering , University of California , Davis , 
California 95616 , United States.

We demonstrate development of the Chebyshev Interaction Model for Efficient 
Simulation (ChIMES) for molecular systems through application to water under 
ambient conditions (298 K, 1 g/cm3). These models, which are comprised of linear 
combinations of Chebyshev polynomials explicitly describing two- and three-body 
interactions, are largely fit by force matching to Kohn-Sham Density Functional 
Theory (DFT). Protocols for selecting user-specified parameters and inclusion of 
stress tensor data are investigated, and structural and dynamical property 
prediction for resulting models is benchmarked against DFT. We show that the 
present ChIMES force fields yield excellent agreement with DFT without the need 
for additional terms such as those for Coulomb interactions. Overall, we show 
that tractable parametrization and subsequent accuracy of the present models 
make ChIMES an ideal candidate for extension of DFT dynamics to larger system 
sizes and longer time scales.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jctc.8b00831
PMID: 30474976


956. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2019 Mar 1;44(5):309-317. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0000000000002936.

Cost-Utility Analysis of Operative Versus Nonoperative Treatment of Thoracic 
Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis.

Jain A(1), Marks MC(2), Kelly MP(3), Lenke LG(4), Errico TJ(5), Lonner BS(6), 
Newton PO(7), Sponseller PD(1); Harms Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, 
MD.
(2)Setting Scoliosis Straight Foundation, San Diego, CA.
(3)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Washington University, St. Louis, MO.
(4)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Columbia University, New York, NY.
(5)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, New York University, New York, NY.
(6)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Mount Sinai University, New York, NY.
(7)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, University of California San Diego, San 
Diego, CA.

STUDY DESIGN: Cost-utility analysis OBJECTIVE.: To compare the cost utility of 
operative versus nonoperative treatment of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) 
and identity factors that influence cost-utility estimates.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: AIS affects 1% to 3% of children aged 10 to 16 
years. When the major coronal curve reaches 50°, operative treatment may be 
considered. The cost utility of operative treatment of AIS is unknown.
METHODS: A decision-analysis model comparing operative versus nonoperative 
treatment was developed for a hypothetical 15-year-old skeletally mature girl 
with a 55° right thoracic (Lenke 1) curve. The AIS literature was reviewed to 
estimate the probability, health utility, and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) for each event. For the conservative model, we assumed that operative 
treatment did not result directly in any QALYs gained, and the health utility in 
AIS patients was the same as the age-matched US population mean. Costs were 
inflation-adjusted at 3.22% per year to 2015 US dollars. Costs and benefits were 
discounted at 3%. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis was performed using mixed 
first-order and second-order Monte Carlo simulations. Incremental cost utility 
ratio (ICUR) and incremental net monetary benefit were calculated. One-way 
sensitivity analyses were performed by varying cost, probability, and QALY 
estimates.
RESULTS: Operative treatment was favored in 98.5% of simulations, with a median 
ICUR of $20,600/QALY (95% confidence interval, $20,500-$21,900) below the 
societal willingness-to-pay threshold (WTPT) of $50,000/QALY. The median 
incremental net monetary benefit associated with operative treatment was $15,100 
(95% confidence interval, $14,800-$15,700). Operative treatment produced net 
monetary benefit across various WTPTs. Factors that most affected the ICUR were 
net costs associated with uncomplicated operative treatment, undergoing surgery 
during adulthood, and development of pulmonary complications.
CONCLUSION: Cost-utility analysis suggests that operative treatment of AIS is 
favored over nonoperative treatment and falls below the $50,000/QALY WTPT for 
patients with Lenke 1 curves.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 2.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0000000000002936
PMID: 30475341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Clinical Review Report: Preservative-free latanoprost 50 μg/mL ophthalmic 
solution (Monoprost): (Laboratoires Théa): Indication: Reduction of intraocular 
pressure in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension [Internet].

Ottawa (ON): Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health; 2018 May.
CADTH Common Drug Reviews.

Lowering intraocular pressure (IOP) is the only clinically established method of 
treating glaucoma, and the Canadian Ophthalmological Society’s clinical practice 
guidelines for glaucoma recommend an initial target IOP based on the severity of 
glaucoma, to be modified based on patients’ age, life expectancy, quality of 
life, and risk factors for progression. Pharmacologic therapy is the most common 
method of lowering IOP, and the most common first-line therapy in Canada is 
topical prostaglandin analogues (PGAs), including latanoprost. Since patients 
with open-angle glaucoma (OAG) require lifetime therapy, they are at greater 
risk of ocular surface disease (OSD), which is associated with the long-term use 
of topical ophthalmic antiglaucoma medications. Patients with OSD may experience 
dry eye or sensations of burning, stinging, itching, or discomfort in the eye. 
Preservatives in topical ophthalmic solutions, of which the most common is 
benzalkonium chloride (BAK), have been implicated in OSD. Glaucoma medical 
therapy is often characterized by nonadherence, and the availability of 
preservative-free PGAs would address an unmet need for patients who do not 
tolerate preserved PGAs well. The objective of this report is to perform a 
systematic review of the beneficial and harmful effects of preservative-free 
latanoprost 50 μg/mL ophthalmic solution (Monoprost) for the reduction of IOP in 
patients with OAG or ocular hypertension.

Copyright © 2018 Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health.

PMID: 30475546


958. Clinical Review Report: Nusinersen (Spinraza): (Biogen Canada Inc.):
Indication:  Treatment of patients with 5q SMA [Internet].

Ottawa (ON): Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health; 2018 Jan.
CADTH Common Drug Reviews.

Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a severe neuromuscular disease and is the 
leading genetic cause of infant death. It is characterized by the degeneration 
of alpha motor neurons in the anterior horn of the spinal cord, leading to 
progressive muscle weakness. Neurological studies indicate that the disease 
causes a rapid and irreversible degeneration of motor neurons. The rate of motor 
neuron degeneration has been reported to plateau with time. The most common form 
of SMA, 5q SMA, makes up more than 95% of all cases and is an autosomal 
recessive disorder caused by homozygous deletion or deletion and mutation of the 
alleles of the survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1) gene. While deletion or mutation 
of the SMN1 gene results in survival motor neuron (SMN) protein deficiency 
(which is essential for the development of motor neurons), the survival motor 
neuron 2 (SMN2) gene produces a relatively small amount of functional SMN 
protein and SMN2 copy number modulates the severity of the disease. SMA is a 
rare disease and estimates of its incidence and prevalence vary between studies. 
The incidence of SMA is often cited as being approximately 10 in 100,000 live 
births. Incidence and prevalence estimates in Canada are not well described in 
the literature. However, the manufacturer of nusinersen provided Canadian 
figures of an annualized estimate of new cases of SMA in Canada at 37.2 new 
cases per year. Four clinical subtypes of SMA are described. SMA type I makes up 
about 60% of SMA diagnoses where patients show symptoms before 6 months of age, 
never achieve the motor milestone of sitting unsupported, and generally do not 
survive past two years of age due to respiratory failure. Patients with SMA type 
II achieve the milestone of sitting unsupported, but never walk independently. 
Symptoms generally appear between 6 to 18 months after birth. Most patients will 
survive past the age of 25, with life expectancy improved by aggressive 
supportive care. SMA type III makes up about 10% to 20% of SMA cases and 
presents between 18 months of age and early adulthood. These patients are able 
to walk independently at some point in their life and typically have a normal 
life expectancy. SMA type IV constitutes a very small proportion of SMA cases, 
has an adult onset, and is the mildest form of the disease. Although muscle 
weakness is present, these patients retain the ability to walk, have a normal 
life expectancy, and do not suffer from respiratory or nutritional issues.

Copyright © 2018 Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health.

PMID: 30475554


959. PLoS One. 2018 Nov 26;13(11):e0207960. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0207960. 
eCollection 2018.

Chronic kidney disease, health-related quality of life and their associated 
economic burden among a nationally representative sample of community dwelling 
adults in England.

Nguyen NTQ(1), Cockwell P(2), Maxwell AP(1), Griffin M(3), O'Brien T(3), O'Neill 
C(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Public Health, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast, United 
Kingdom.
(2)University Hospitals Birmingham, Birmingham, United Kingdom.
(3)National University of Ireland Galway, Galway, Ireland.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) affects up to 15% of the adult population and is 
strongly associated with other non-communicable chronic diseases including 
diabetes. However, there is limited information on a population basis of the 
relationship between CKD and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and the 
consequent economic cost. We investigated this relationship in a representative 
sample in England using the 2010 Health Survey for England. Multivariable Tobit 
models were used to examine the relationship between HRQoL and CKD severity. 
HRQoL was converted to quality adjusted life year (QALY) measures by combining 
decrements in quality of life with reductions in life expectancy associated with 
increased disease severity. QALYs were adjusted for discounting and monetised 
using the UK threshold for reimbursement of £30,000. The QALYs were then used in 
conjunction with forecasted prevalence to estimate the HRQoL burden associated 
with CKD among individuals with diabetes up to 2025. Individuals with more 
severe CKD had lower HRQoL compared to those with better kidney function. 
Compared to those with normal/low normal kidney function and stage 1 CKD, those 
with stage 2, stage 3 with albuminuria and stage 4/5 CKD experienced a decrement 
of 0.11, 0.18 and 0.28 in their utility index, respectively. Applying the UK 
reimbursement threshold for a QALY, the monetised lifetime burden of reduced 
HRQoL due to stage 2, stage 3 with albuminuria and stage 4/5 CKD were £103,734; 
£83,399; £125,335 in males and £143,582; £70,288; £203,804 in females, 
respectively. Utilizing the predicted prevalence of CKD among individuals with 
diabetes mellitus, the economic burden of CKD per million of individuals with 
diabetes is forecasted at approximately £11.4 billion in 2025. In conclusion, 
CKD has a strong adverse impact on HRQoL in multiple domains. The estimated 
economic burden of CKD among individuals with diabetes mellitus in the UK is 
projected to rise markedly over time.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0207960
PMCID: PMC6258125
PMID: 30475893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


960. Nucleic Acids Res. 2019 Feb 20;47(3):1493-1504. doi: 10.1093/nar/gky1187.

The Leishmania PABP1-eIF4E4 interface: a novel 5'-3' interaction architecture 
for trans-spliced mRNAs.

Dos Santos Rodrigues FH(1), Firczuk H(1), Breeze AL(2)(3), Cameron AD(1), Walko 
M(2)(4), Wilson AJ(2)(4), Zanchin NIT(5), McCarthy JEG(1).

Author information:
(1)Warwick Integrative Synthetic Biology Centre (WISB) and School of Life 
Sciences, University of Warwick, Gibbet Hill, Coventry CV4 7AL, UK.
(2)Astbury Centre for Structural Molecular Biology, University of Leeds, LS2 
9JT, UK.
(3)Faculty of Biological Sciences, University of Leeds, LS2 9JT, UK.
(4)School of Chemistry, University of Leeds, LS2 9JT, UK.
(5)Instituto Carlos Chagas, FIOCRUZ-Paraná, Rua Professor Algacyr Munhoz Mader 
3775, Curitiba, PR 81350-010, Brazil.

Trans-splicing of trypanosomatid polycistronic transcripts produces 
polyadenylated monocistronic mRNAs modified to form the 5' cap4 structure 
(m7Gpppm36,6,2'Apm2'Apm2'Cpm23,2'U). NMR and X-ray crystallography reveal that 
Leishmania has a unique type of N-terminally-extended cap-binding protein 
(eIF4E4) that binds via a PAM2 motif to PABP1. This relies on the interactions 
of a combination of polar and charged amino acid side-chains together with 
multiple hydrophobic interactions, and underpins a novel architecture in the 
Leishmania cap4-binding translation factor complex. Measurements using 
microscale thermophoresis, fluorescence anisotropy and surface plasmon resonance 
characterize the key interactions driving assembly of the Leishmania translation 
initiation complex. We demonstrate that this complex can accommodate Leishmania 
eIF4G3 which, unlike the standard eukaryotic initiation complex paradigm, binds 
tightly to eIF4E4, but not to PABP1. Thus, in Leishmania, the chain of 
interactions 5'cap4-eIF4E4-PABP1-poly(A) bridges the mRNA 5' and 3' ends. 
Exceptionally, therefore, by binding tightly to two protein ligands and to the 
mRNA 5' cap4 structure, the trypanosomatid N-terminally extended form of eIF4E 
acts as the core molecular scaffold for the mRNA-cap-binding complex. Finally, 
the eIF4E4 N-terminal extension is an intrinsically disordered region that 
transitions to a partly folded form upon binding to PABP1, whereby this 
interaction is not modulated by poly(A) binding to PABP1.

© The Author(s) 2018. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic 
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gky1187
PMCID: PMC6379680
PMID: 30476241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Ann Vasc Surg. 2019 Apr;56:163-174. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2018.08.091. Epub
2018  Nov 23.

Q-TWiST and Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Endovascular versus Open Repair for 
Ruptured Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms in a High Deliberate Practice Volume Center.

Canning P(1), Tawfick W(2), Kamel K(3), Hynes N(4), Sultan S(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, National University of Ireland, Galway, Ireland.
(2)School of Medicine, National University of Ireland, Galway, Ireland; Western 
Vascular Institute, University College Hospital, Galway, Ireland.
(3)Western Vascular Institute, University College Hospital, Galway, Ireland.
(4)School of Medicine, National University of Ireland, Galway, Ireland; Western 
Vascular Institute, University College Hospital, Galway, Ireland; Galway Clinic, 
Royal College of Surgeons of Ireland and National University of Ireland Galway, 
Affiliated Hospitals, Galway, Ireland.
(5)School of Medicine, National University of Ireland, Galway, Ireland; Western 
Vascular Institute, University College Hospital, Galway, Ireland; Galway Clinic, 
Royal College of Surgeons of Ireland and National University of Ireland Galway, 
Affiliated Hospitals, Galway, Ireland. Electronic address: sherif.sultan@hse.ie.

BACKGROUND: The objective of the study was to compare the cost-effectiveness of 
endovascular aortic repair (rEVAR) versus open surgical repair (rOSR) for 
ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm (rAAA), where rEVAR is regularly performed 
outside of instructions for use (IFUs) (shorter and more angulated necks). 
Primary end point is incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of rEVAR versus 
rOSR and aneurysm-related mortality. Secondary end points are cost per 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), perioperative morbidity and mortality, 
reintervention, and all-cause mortality.
METHODS: All rAAA repairs performed between 2002 and 2016 in a single center 
were scrutinized. Between 2002 and 2007, most rAAAs were repaired using rOSR. 
From 2007 to 2016, we implemented a rEVAR with an anatomically possible 
protocol. During this time, severe angulation was rarely seen as a 
contraindication to rEVAR, and rEVAR was performed on aneurysms with an 
infrarenal aortic neck cranial to the aneurysm with a diameter of 20-33 mm and a 
length of at least 5 mm. Demographics and outcomes were reported according to 
the Society for Vascular Surgery guidelines. QALY was measured based on quality 
of time spent without symptoms of disease or toxicity of treatment (Q-TWiST) 
assessment.
RESULTS: Eight hundred aneurysm surgeries were performed; of these, 135 were 
emergency surgeries of which 88 were for rAAA; (42 rEVARs and 46 rOSRs). Primary 
technical success (rEVAR 89.1% vs. rOSR 87.8%; P = 0.1), perioperative morbidity 
(rEVAR 56.5% vs. rOSR 64.3%; P = 0.457), and mortality (rEVAR 26.1% vs. rOSR 
28.6%; P = 0.794) were nonsignificantly favorable in rEVAR patients. Freedom 
from reintervention was significantly lower in rEVAR patients at 3 years (rEVAR 
74% vs. rOSR 90%; P = 0.038). Three-year aneurysm-related survival (rEVAR 65% 
vs. rOSR 62%; P = 0.848) and all-cause survival (rEVAR 56% vs. rOSR 51%; 
P = 0.577) were higher in rEVAR patients. At 3 years, rEVAR patients had a 
higher QALY of 1.671 versus OSR of 1.549 (P = 0.502). Operating room (P = 0.001) 
and total accommodation costs (P = 0.139) were lower in rEVAR patients, while 
equipment (P < 0.001), surveillance, and reintervention (P < 0.001) costs were 
higher. Median cost of rEVAR at 3 years was €23,352 vs. €20,494 for OSR 
(P < 0.084) (power>80%). Median cost per QALY of rEVAR at 3 years was €13,974 
vs. €13,230 for rOSR (P = 0.296). ICER for rEVAR versus rOSR was €23,426 (95% 
confidence interval [CI] < €0 to > €30,000). At 3 years, the area under the 
curve and 95% CI for Q-TWiST was higher in rEVAR compared with OSR (rEVAR 
500.819 vs. rOSR 437.838).
CONCLUSIONS: There is no significant difference in cost or QALYs between rEVAR 
and rOSR even when rEVAR is performed on complex cases outside of IFU (shorter 
and more angulated necks). There is a significantly higher freedom from 
secondary intervention in rOSR patients compared with rEVAR patients at 3 years.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2018.08.091
PMID: 30476604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Neuroepidemiology. 2019;52(1-2):17-24. doi: 10.1159/000492819. Epub 2018 Nov
26.

Global and Regional Trends of Multiple Sclerosis Disability-Adjusted Life Years 
Rates: A 25-Year Assessment.

Mansouri S(1), Zayeri F(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Faculty of Paramedical Sciences, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Proteomics Research Center and Department of Biostatistics, Faculty of 
Paramedical Sciences, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran, fzayeri@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Multiple sclerosis (MS) burden of disease has been described by 
reporting the disability-adjusted life years (DALY) index. So far, no study has 
assessed the trend of MS DALY rates over time.
METHOD: Age-standardized MS DALY rates for both sexes were reported every 5 
years from 1990 to 2015 in 195 countries in the Global Burden of Disease 
Database (GBD) database. To assess the MS DALY rates' trends in each super 
region and throughout the world, we applied the Latent Growth Models. We also 
utilized the linear mixed model to evaluate the effect of development factor on 
MS DALY rates.
RESULTS: Our results showed that 5 out of 7 GBD super regions had negative 
trends in MS DALY rates during these years and the remaining 2 - Latin America 
and the Caribbean (slope = 0.196, p < 0.05) and South Asia - slope = 0.057, p > 
0.05 - had upward trends. Using a linear mixed model, we found that the mean 
difference of MS DALY rates was about 25 DALYs higher in developed countries 
compared to developing ones (p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSION: In general, our findings revealed a global downward trend in the MS 
DALY rate. We also conclude that MS DALY rates are decreasing both in developed 
and developing countries, with a steeper slope in the developed world.

© 2018 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000492819
PMID: 30476919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. BMC Endocr Disord. 2018 Nov 26;18(1):88. doi: 10.1186/s12902-018-0315-6.

Treatment with PBI-4050 in patients with Alström syndrome: study protocol for a 
phase 2, single-Centre, single-arm, open-label trial.

Baig S(1)(2), Veeranna V(1), Bolton S(1), Edwards N(2)(3), Tomlinson JW(4), 
Manolopoulos K(5), Moran J(6), Steeds RP(2)(3), Geberhiwot T(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Rare Disease, Department of Inherited Metabolic Disorders, Queen 
Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 2TH, UK.
(2)Institute of Cardiovascular Science, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, 
Birmingham, B15 2TT, UK.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Edgbaston, Birmingham, 
B15 2TH, UK.
(4)Oxford Centre for Diabetes, Endocrinology & Metabolism, NIHR Oxford 
Biomedical Research Centre, University of Oxford, Oxford, OX3 7LJ, UK.
(5)Institute of Metabolism and Systems Research, University of Birmingham, 
Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 2TT, UK.
(6)Prometic Pharma SMT Ltd., Horizon Park, Barton Road, Cambridge, CB23 7AJ, UK.
(7)Centre for Rare Disease, Department of Inherited Metabolic Disorders, Queen 
Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 2TH, UK. 
Tarekegn.Geberhiwot@uhb.nhs.uk.
(8)Institute of Metabolism and Systems Research, University of Birmingham, 
Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 2TT, UK. Tarekegn.Geberhiwot@uhb.nhs.uk.
(9)Inherited Metabolic Disorders, University Hospital Birmingham NHS Foundation 
Trust, Mindelsohn Way, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 2TH, UK. 
Tarekegn.Geberhiwot@uhb.nhs.uk.

BACKGROUND: Alström syndrome (ALMS) is a very rare autosomal recessive monogenic 
disorder caused by a mutation in the ALMS1 gene and characterised by childhood 
onset obesity, dyslipidaemia, advanced non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, 
diabetes and extreme insulin resistance. There is evidence of multi-organ 
fibrosis in ALMS and severity of the disease often leads to organ failure with 
associated morbidities, resulting in reduced life expectancy. There are no 
specific treatments for this disease, and current management consists of only 
symptomatic therapies. PBI-4050 is a new molecular entity with demonstrated 
anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrotic activities in preclinical models, including 
animal models of human diseases characterized by progressive fibrosis in the 
kidney, heart, liver and lungs. Moreover, completed Phase 2 studies in type 2 
diabetes mellitus with metabolic syndrome and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis 
further support the anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrotic activity of PBI-4050. 
Together, these data suggest that PBI-4050 has the potential to treat the 
pathological inflammatory and fibrotic features of ALMS. The aim of this study 
is to evaluate the safety and anti-inflammatory & anti-fibrotic activities of 
PBI-4050 in subjects with ALMS.
METHODS: This is a Phase 2, single-centre, single-arm, open-label trial. A total 
of 18 patients with ALMS will be enrolled to receive PBI-4050 at a total daily 
oral dose of 800 mg for an initial 24 weeks with continuation for an additional 
36 or 48 weeks. Standard assessments of safety include adverse events, clinical 
laboratory tests, vital signs, physical examination and electrocardiograms. 
Efficacy assessments include adipose tissue biopsy, 
hyperinsulinaemic-euglycaemic glucose clamp, adipose tissue microdialysis, liver 
transient elastography, liver and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging, and 
laboratory blood tests.
DISCUSSION: This is the first clinical study of PBI-4050 in subjects with ALMS. 
Given the rarity and complexity of the disease, a single-centre, single-arm, 
open-label design has been chosen to maximise subject exposure and increase the 
likelihood of achieving our study endpoints. The results will provide valuable 
safety and preliminary evidence of the effects of PBI-4050 in ALMS, a rare 
heterogeneous disease associated with progressive fibrosis and premature 
mortality.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The trial is registered on ClinicalTrials.gov (Identifier; 
NCT02739217 , February 2016) and European Union Drug Regulating Authorities 
Clinical Trials (EudraCT Number 2015-001625-16, Sept 2015).

DOI: 10.1186/s12902-018-0315-6
PMCID: PMC6258144
PMID: 30477455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The 
study was approved on 19 October 2015 by the UK’s Medicines & Healthcare 
Products Regulatory Agency (Reference 45,268/0001/001–0001) in compliance with 
the European Clinical Trials Directive and the Medicines for Human Use (Clinical 
Trials) Regulations 2004 and its subsequent amendments. The study was provided 
with ethical approval by the NHS Health Research Authority and local NHS 
Research Ethics Committee (Integrated Research Application System Project Code 
186163, REC Reference 15/EE/0334). The study is registered on ClinicalTrials.gov 
(Identifier; NCT02739217 - 
https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02739217?cond=NCT02739217&rank=1) and 
European Union Drug Regulating Authorities Clinical Trials (EudraCT Number 
2015–001625-16). Subjects are only included in this study if informed consent is 
obtained in advance of any study-specific procedures and documented in an 
IEC-approved information sheet and consent form. Given the nature and severity 
of Alström Syndrome and the resultant loss of sight, subjects are not expected 
to be able to read a normal information sheet and consent form. Accordingly, 
provision are made to provide the contents of the information sheet consent form 
in a format that is suitable for the individual (e.g., in large font, in 
braille, or verbally or in an audio format) and for consent to be witnessed. 
CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: By providing informed consent, participants agree to 
have study results published in form of scientific papers. Data is anonymised 
before analysis and publication. COMPETING INTERESTS: JM is an employee of 
Prometic, the developer of PBI-4050. The other authors declare no competing 
interest. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to 
jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


964. Elife. 2018 Nov 27;7:e38407. doi: 10.7554/eLife.38407.

Theoretical tool bridging cell polarities with development of robust 
morphologies.

Nissen SB(1)(2), Rønhild S(1), Trusina A(1)(2), Sneppen K(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Models of Life, Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)StemPhys, Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.

Despite continual renewal and damages, a multicellular organism is able to 
maintain its complex morphology. How is this stability compatible with the 
complexity and diversity of living forms? Looking for answers at protein level 
may be limiting as diverging protein sequences can result in similar 
morphologies. Inspired by the progressive role of apical-basal and planar cell 
polarity in development, we propose that stability, complexity, and diversity 
are emergent properties in populations of proliferating polarized cells. We 
support our hypothesis by a theoretical approach, developed to effectively 
capture both types of polar cell adhesions. When applied to specific cases of 
development - gastrulation and the origins of folds and tubes - our theoretical 
tool suggests experimentally testable predictions pointing to the strength of 
polar adhesion, restricted directions of cell polarities, and the rate of cell 
proliferation to be major determinants of morphological diversity and stability.

© 2018, Nissen et al.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.38407
PMCID: PMC6286147
PMID: 30477635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: SN, SR, AT, KS No competing interests declared


965. Clin Ther. 2018 Dec;40(12):2006-2020.e2. doi:
10.1016/j.clinthera.2018.10.008.  Epub 2018 Nov 24.

Relationship Between Symptoms and Health-related Quality-of-life Benefits in 
Patients With Carcinoid Syndrome: Post Hoc Analyses From TELESTAR.

Cella D(1), Beaumont JL(2), Hudgens S(3), Marteau F(4), Feuilly M(4), Houchard 
A(4), Lapuerta P(5), Ramage J(6), Pavel M(7), Hörsch D(8), Kulke MH(9).

Author information:
(1)Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA. 
Electronic address: d-cella@northwestern.edu.
(2)Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA; 
Terasaki Research Institute, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(3)Clinical Outcomes Solutions, Tucson, AZ, USA.
(4)Ipsen Pharma, Boulogne-Billancourt, France.
(5)Lexicon Pharmaceuticals, The Woodlands, TX, USA.
(6)Hampshire Hospitals, Basingstoke, United Kingdom.
(7)Universitatsklinikum Erlangen, Erlangen, Germany; Charité-Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(8)Zentralklinik Bad Berka, Bad Berka, Germany.
(9)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA, USA.

PURPOSE: Patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors and carcinoid syndrome 
(CS) may experience chronic, recurring symptoms despite somatostatin analogue 
therapy. Little is known about the relationship between bowel movement (BM) 
frequency, patient-reported symptoms and health-related quality of life (QoL). 
Data from the TELESTAR study were used in exploratory, post hoc analyses to 
understand the relationship between durable reductions in BM frequency, symptom 
relief, and health-related QoL.
METHODS: Patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors and CS in the Phase III 
TELESTAR study were randomized (1:1:1) to receive telotristat ethyl (TE) 250 mg, 
TE 500 mg, or placebo three times daily (TID) during a 12-week double-blind 
treatment period (DBTP). All patients received TE 500 mg TID in an open-label 
extension (OLE) to Week 48. Durable response was predefined. Analyses compared 
durable responders (DRs) and non-durable responders (NDRs), irrespective of 
treatment group, at Weeks 12, 24, and 48.
FINDINGS: At the start of the DBTP, 135 patients were randomized, 45 patients 
each to TE 250 mg, TE 500 mg, and placebo. After the 12-week DBTP, 48 of 135 
patients were DRs (TE 250 mg, n = 20; TE 500 mg, n = 19; placebo, n = 9). Of the 
115 patients who entered the OLE, 35 were DRs initially randomized to TE 250 mg 
(n = 18) or 500 mg (n = 17), 29 of whom maintained a durable response throughout 
the OLE. Of the 71 DBTP-NDRs (inclusive of patients initially randomized to 
placebo), 28 became OLE-DRs. There were 29 NDRs initially randomized to placebo 
who entered the OLE, 16 of whom became DRs when switched to TE 500 mg. DRs 
during the DBTP had greater symptom improvements in the DBTP; these improvements 
continued over the OLE. DBTP-DRs also maintained more meaningful QoL 
improvements in EORTC QLQ-C30 global health status, nausea and vomiting, pain, 
diarrhea, and EORTC QLQ-GINET21 gastrointestinal symptoms over the DBTP and OLE 
periods than DBTP-NDRs.
IMPLICATIONS: These results suggest that sustained improvements in BM frequency 
in patients with CS may have multifaceted, long-term effects on a patient's 
well-being. ClinicalTrials.gov identifiers: NCT01677910.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2018.10.008
PMID: 30477789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Gynecol Oncol. 2019 Jan;152(1):127-132. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2018.11.009.
Epub  2018 Nov 23.

The cost-effectiveness of opportunistic salpingectomy versus standard tubal 
ligation at the time of cesarean delivery for ovarian cancer risk reduction.

Subramaniam A(1), Einerson BD(2), Blanchard CT(3), Erickson BK(4), Szychowski 
J(3), Leath CA 3rd(5), Biggio JR(6), Huh WK(5).

Author information:
(1)University of Alabama at Birmingham, Center for Women's Reproductive Health, 
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Birmingham, AL, United States of 
America. Electronic address: asubramaniam@uabmc.edu.
(2)University of Utah, Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine, Salt Lake City, UT, 
United States of America.
(3)University of Alabama at Birmingham, Center for Women's Reproductive Health, 
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Birmingham, AL, United States of 
America.
(4)University of Minnesota, Division of Gynecologic Oncology, Minneapolis, MN, 
United States of America.
(5)University of Alabama at Birmingham, Division of Gynecologic Oncology, 
Birmingham, AL, United States of America.
(6)Ochsner Health System, New Orleans, LA, United States of America.

OBJECTIVES: Opportunistic salpingectomy is a cost-effective strategy recommended 
for ovarian cancer (OvCa) risk reduction at the time of gynecologic surgery in 
women who have completed childbearing. We aimed to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of opportunistic salpingectomy compared to standard tubal 
ligation (TL) during cesarean delivery.
STUDY DESIGN: A cost-effectiveness analysis using decision modeling to compare 
opportunistic salpingectomy to TL at the time of cesarean using probabilities of 
procedure completion derived from a trial. Probability and cost inputs were 
derived from local data and the literature. The primary outcome was the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) in 2017 U.S. dollars per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) at a cost-effectiveness threshold of 
$100,000/QALY. One- and two-way sensitivity analyses were performed for all 
variables. A probabilistic sensitivity analysis determined the proportion of 
simulations in which each strategy would be cost-effective.
RESULTS: Opportunistic salpingectomy was cost-effective compared to TL with an 
ICER of $26,616 per QALY. In 10,000 women desiring sterilization with cesarean, 
opportunistic salpingectomy would result in 17 fewer OvCa diagnoses, 13 fewer 
OvCa deaths, and 25 fewer unintended pregnancies compared to TL - with an 
associated cost increase of $4.7 million. The model was sensitive only to OvCa 
risk reduction from salpingectomy and TL. Opportunistic salpingectomy was not 
cost-effective if its cost was >$3163.74 more than TL, if the risk-reduction of 
salpingectomy was <41%, or if the risk-reduction of TL was >46%. In 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis opportunistic salpingectomy was cost 
effective in 75% of simulations.
CONCLUSIONS: In women undergoing cesarean with sterilization, opportunistic 
salpingectomy is likely cost-effective and may be cost-saving in comparison to 
TL for OvCa risk reduction.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2018.11.009
PMCID: PMC6321779
PMID: 30477808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


967. Encephale. 2019 Jan;45 Suppl 1:S35-S37. doi: 10.1016/j.encep.2018.09.010.
Epub  2018 Nov 23.

[Prevention of suicide of the elderly in France. To a multimodal strategy 
against depression and isolation: CQFDi].

[Article in French]

Kopp-Bigault C(1), Walter M(2).

Author information:
(1)Inserm UMR 1178, équipe Impact du psychotrauma et suicide outre-mer (IPSOM) 
du Centre d'études en épidémiologie et santé des populations (CESP), Groupement 
d'études et de prévention du suicide (GEPS), centre hospitalier des 
Pays-de-Morlaix, secteur 29G07 de psychiatrie de l'adulte, 29600 Morlaix, 
France; Équipe de recherche SPURBO EA 7479, Groupement d'études et de prévention 
du suicide (GEPS), service hospitalo-universitaire de psychiatrie d'adultes et 
de psychologie médicale, secteur 29G01, centre hospitalier régional 
universitaire de Brest, hôpital de Bohars, 29820 Bohars, France; Centre 
hospitalier des Pays-de-Morlaix, secteur 29G07 de psychiatrie de l'adulte, 29600 
Morlaix, France. Electronic address: kopp_c@yahoo.fr.
(2)Équipe de recherche SPURBO EA 7479, Groupement d'études et de prévention du 
suicide (GEPS), service hospitalo-universitaire de psychiatrie d'adultes et de 
psychologie médicale, secteur 29G01, centre hospitalier régional universitaire 
de Brest, hôpital de Bohars, 29820 Bohars, France; Équipe de recherche SPURBO EA 
7479, 29600, France; Service hospitalo-universitaire de psychiatrie d'adultes et 
de psychologie médicale, secteur 29G01, centre hospitalier régional 
universitaire de Brest-hôpital de Bohars, 29600 Bohars, France.

ISSUE: Suicide is a major problem of public health around the world, and if 
suicidal mortality rates have declined in recent years, the elderly remain a 
category of the world's population at major risk of suicide. Seventeen percent 
of deaths by suicide across the world are individuals over the age of 65. The 
existence of suicidal ideas for an individual in this age group increases the 
risk of suicide attempt in the year by 34. In France, about a little less than a 
quarter of suicides belong to persons over 60-years-old. More risk factors found 
in the international literature are in the foreground of mental disorders and in 
particular the major depression episode, then secondarily addictions, 
neuro-degenerative disorders as well as pain and other diseases. Depression is 
found in 60% to 90% of suicides. We notice also that older people privileged the 
general practitioner as interlocutor to discuss their problems and worries much 
more than psychiatrists or psychologists. In fact, two-thirds of the elderly who 
committed suicide had consulted their general practioner in the month prior to 
suicide and half in the 10 last days. That raises the question of the 
identification of depression and the evaluation of suicidal risk. On the other 
side, there is an abundant literature about psychosocial risk factors especially 
on the influence of isolation and lack of social support as well as on conflicts 
and family losses. In France, more than 4 million of the elderly live alone. So, 
while the world population is increasing and life expectancy lengthens, it is 
important to already act for elderly suicide prevention.
PERSPECTIVES: Suicide prevention actions whose efficacity have been demonstrated 
around the world are designed as part of multimodal strategies combining several 
levers of action. The consensual recommendations for prevention of elderly 
suicide recommend the association of actions on the reduction of depression and 
combating social isolation in connection with the training of front-line actors 
such as general practitioners. As a result of these experiments and 
recommendations, the first francophone multimodal strategy was developed to act 
both on depression and social isolation: the Coopération Québec France sur la 
dépression et l'isolement (CQFDi) program which will be implemented in France 
and Quebec in 2019.
CONCLUSION: It has been proven that multimodal suicide prevention strategies 
allow a reduction in the number of suicides. The CQFDi program focuses on at 
risk of suicide population and aims to reduce the suicide rate of elderly people 
in France.

Copyright © 2018 L'Encéphale, Paris. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.encep.2018.09.010
PMID: 30477900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. J Vasc Surg. 2019 May;69(5):1405-1411. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2018.07.059. Epub
2018  Nov 23.

Predictors of perioperative and late survival in octogenarians undergoing 
elective endovascular abdominal aortic repair.

Pini R(1), Gallitto E(1), Faggioli G(2), Mascoli C(1), Vacirca A(1), Fenelli 
C(1), Gargiulo M(1), Stella A(1).

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery, University of Bologna "Alma Mater Studiorum," Policlinico 
S. Orsola-Malpighi, Bologna, Italy.
(2)Vascular Surgery, University of Bologna "Alma Mater Studiorum," Policlinico 
S. Orsola-Malpighi, Bologna, Italy. Electronic address: 
gianluca.faggioli@unibo.it.

OBJECTIVE: The appropriateness of endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) of 
uncomplicated abdominal aortic aneurysm depends on the risk-benefit ratio, 
particularly in elderly patients with short life expectancy. The aim of this 
study was to assess the efficacy of EVAR in >80-year-old patients by evaluating 
their postoperative survival and analyzing the possible predictors of late 
mortality.
METHODS: All consecutive patients aged >80 years undergoing elective EVAR from 
2006 to 2015 were prospectively evaluated. The 30-day mortality and long-term 
survival were assessed, and independent risk factors for mortality were 
determined by multivariate logistic and Cox analysis.
RESULTS: Of a total of 1135 EVARs performed in a 10-year period, 201 (18%) 
occurred in patients older than 80 years. The median age was 84 years 
(interquartile range, 3 years), and 85% were male. Thirty-four patients (17%) 
had a score of 4 according to the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) 
classification. Overall 30-day mortality was 2% (n = 4); it was significantly 
higher in those with ASA score of 4 compared with ASA score <4 (9.4% vs 0.6%; 
P = .04) and was also confirmed by multivariate analysis (odds ratio, 12.7; 95% 
confidence interval [CI], 1.1-141.8; P = .04). The mean follow-up was 36 ± 
18 months, and the overall survival at 1 year, 3 years, and 5 years was 85% ± 
2%, 77% ± 3%, and 52% ± 4%, respectively. Using multivariate Cox regression, ASA 
score of 4 and peripheral artery obstructive disease (PAOD) were the only 
independent predictors for midterm mortality (hazard ratio of 2.0 [95% CI, 
1.2-2.9; P = .04] and 3.07 [95% CI, 1.06-5.2; P = .04], respectively). The 
2-year survival was significantly influenced by the presence of both (ASA score 
of 4 and PAOD; survival, 33% ± 2%) or one (ASA score of 4 or PAOD; survival, 
67% ± 8%) of the two independent predictors. If neither ASA score of 4 nor PAOD 
was present, survival was significantly improved (92% ± 3%; P = .02).
CONCLUSIONS: The performance of EVAR in >80-year-old patients is associated with 
an overall early mortality rate as low as 2%. In patients with no or only one 
risk factor, the survival rate warrants the treatment of abdominal aortic 
aneurysm; in contrast, patients with ASA score of 4 and PAOD have a 
significantly higher mortality rate and reduction of life expectancy.

Copyright © 2018 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2018.07.059
PMID: 30477940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. BMJ Open. 2018 Nov 25;8(11):e024335. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2018-024335.

Patient-reported gout attack frequency and allopurinol use in general practice 
in the Netherlands: a prospective observational cohort study protocol.

van Leeuwen KDB(1), Bohnen AM(1), Jacobs ML(1), van Der Lei J(2), Janssens 
HJEM(3), Koffeman AR(4), Bindels PJE(1), Bierma-Zeinstra SMA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Medical Informatics, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of General Practice, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Elderly Health, Leids Universitair Medisch Centrum, Leiden, 
Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: Gout is the most common inflammatory arthritis in the Dutch 
general practice population and is often managed with long-term uric acid 
lowering treatment. The clinical relevance of this treatment in preventing gout 
attacks is unclear.
PRIMARY RESEARCH QUESTION: What is the frequency of self-reported gout attacks 
and what is the effect of allopurinol use in patients diagnosed with gout in 
general practice?
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: Adult patients with a diagnostic consultation code for 
gout in the year 2013, 2014 or 2015 will be invited to participate in this 
prospective observational cohort study. Patients with a limited life expectancy 
will be excluded. Baseline measurements will include blood pressure, body mass 
index and a blood sample (estimated glomerular filtration rate, serum uric acid, 
cholesterol (low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and high-density lipoprotein), 
glucose (fasting)). At the 2-year follow-up, patients will receive 
questionnaires every 3 months. The questionnaires at baseline, 12 months and 24 
months assess the frequency of gout attacks, the presence of tophi, comorbidity, 
medication use, quality of life, diet and lifestyle. The questionnaires in 
between only assess the frequency of gout attacks and medication use for gout. 
Descriptive statistics will be used to calculate the mean frequency of 
self-reported gout attacks during the 2-year follow-up. The propensity score for 
each patient being offered allopurinol is estimated and used to match patients 
with and without allopurinol treatment. We will compare the frequency of gout 
attacks in these groups using multilevel Poisson regression analyses. With this 
type of analysis, we can calculate the corrected estimated effect of allopurinol 
on gout attack frequency.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The research protocol was approved by the Medical 
Ethical Committee of the Erasmus Medical Centre in Rotterdam. The knowledge 
generated by this study will be transferred to the Dutch College of General 
Practitioners, conferences and to (inter)national peer-reviewed journals.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NTR6329; Pre-results.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2018. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2018-024335
PMCID: PMC6254413
PMID: 30478125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: SMAB-Z is consultant for 
Infirst Healthcare. All other authors declare that they have no competing 
interests


970. Clin Chem. 2019 Jan;65(1):135-145. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2018.288332. Epub
2018  Nov 26.

Differences between Men and Women in Mortality and the Health Dimensions of the 
Morbidity Process.

Crimmins EM(1), Shim H(2), Zhang YS(2), Kim JK(2).

Author information:
(1)USC Davis School of Gerontology, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, CA. crimmin@usc.edu.
(2)USC Davis School of Gerontology, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, CA.

BACKGROUND: Do men have worse health than women? This question is addressed by 
examining sex differences in mortality and the health dimensions of the 
morbidity process that characterize health change with age. We also discuss 
health differences across historical time and between countries.
CONTENT: Results from national-level surveys and data systems are used to 
identify male/female differences in mortality rates, prevalence of diseases, 
physical functioning, and indicators of physiological status. Male/female 
differences in health outcomes depend on epidemiological and social 
circumstances and behaviors, and many are not consistent across historical time 
and between countries. In all countries, male life expectancy is now lower than 
female life expectancy, but this was not true in the past. In most countries, 
women have more problems performing instrumental activities of daily living, and 
men do better in measured performance of functioning. Men tend to have more 
cardiovascular diseases; women, more inflammatory-related diseases. Sex 
differences in major cardiovascular risk factors vary between countries-men tend 
to have more hypertension; women, more raised lipids. Indicators of 
physiological dysregulation indicate greater inflammatory activity for women and 
generally higher cardiovascular risk for men, although women have higher or 
similar cardiovascular risk in some markers depending on the historical time and 
country.
SUMMARY: In some aspects of health, men do worse; in others, women do worse. The 
lack of consistency across historical times and between countries in sex 
differences in health points to the complexity and the substantial challenges in 
extrapolating future trends in sex differences.

© 2018 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2018.288332
PMCID: PMC6345642
PMID: 30478135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors’ Disclosures or Potential Conflicts of 
Interest: Upon manuscript submission, all authors completed the author 
disclosure form. Disclosures and/or potential conflicts of interest: Employment 
or Leadership: None declared. Consultant or Advisory Role: None declared. Stock 
Ownership: None declared. Honoraria: None declared. Expert Testimony: None 
declared. Patents: None declared.


971. Sci Rep. 2018 Nov 26;8(1):17341. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-35714-8.

Adaptive hindlimb split-belt treadmill walking in rats by controlling basic 
muscle activation patterns via phase resetting.

Fujiki S(1), Aoi S(2), Funato T(3), Sato Y(3), Tsuchiya K(2), Yanagihara D(4).

