36.2 to 37.8) and 15.5 years (95% CI, 15.1 to 15.9), respectively. The life 
expectancy of patients with or without tuberculosis (TB) was 21.6 years (95% CI, 
20.4 to 22.9) and 36.5 years (95% CI, 35.7 to 37.4), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The life expectancy of Iranian HIV-positive patients was found to 
be very low. To improve their longevity, improvements in ART coverage and the 
control and treatment of TB are advised.

DOI: 10.4178/epih.e2018053
PMCID: PMC6335499
PMID: 30428644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare for this study.


832. Int J Hyperthermia. 2018;35(1):398-418. doi: 10.1080/02656736.2018.1506165.
Epub  2018 Nov 14.

Thermal ablation of pancreatic cancer: A systematic literature review of 
clinical practice and pre-clinical studies.

Saccomandi P(1)(2), Lapergola A(1)(3), Longo F(1)(4), Schena E(5), Quero G(4).

Author information:
(1)a IHU-Strasbourg Institute of Image-Guided Surgery , Strasbourg , France.
(2)b Departement of Mechanical Engineering, Politecnico di Milano , Milan , 
Italy.
(3)c Università G. D'Annunzio , Chieti , Italy.
(4)d Fondazione Policlinico Universitario Agostino Gemelli IRCCS , Rome , Italy.
(5)e Università Campus Bio-Medico di Roma , Roma , Italy.

PURPOSE: Pancreatic cancer is a challenging malignancy with low treatment option 
and poor life expectancy. Thermal ablation techniques were proposed as 
alternative treatment options, especially in advanced stages and for 
unfit-for-surgery patients. This systematic review describes the thermal 
ablative techniques -i.e., Laser (LA), Radiofrequency (RFA), Microwave (MWA) 
Ablation, High-Intensity Focused Ultrasound (HIFU) and cryoablation- available 
for pancreatic cancer treatment. Additionally, an analysis of the efficacy, 
complication rate and overall survival for each technique is conducted.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This review collects the ex vivo, preclinical and clinical 
studies presenting the use of thermal techniques in the pancreatic cancer 
treatment, searched up to March 2018 in PubMed and Medline. Abstracts, 
letters-to-the-editor, expert opinions, reviews and non-English language 
manuscripts were excluded.
RESULTS: Sixty-five papers were included. For the ex vivo and preclinical 
studies, there are: 12 records for LA, 8 for RFA, 0 for MWA, 6 for HIFU, 1 for 
cryoablation and 3 for hybrid techniques. For clinical studies, 1 paper for LA, 
14 for RFA, 1 for MWA, 17 for HIFU, 1 for cryoablation and 1 for hybrid 
techniques.
CONCLUSIONS: Important technological advances are presented in ex vivo and 
preclinical studies, as the real-time thermometry, nanotechnology and hybrid 
techniques to enhance the thermal outcome. Conversely, a lack of standardization 
in the clinical employment of the procedures emerged, leading to contrasting 
results on the safety and feasibility of some analyzed techniques. Uniform 
conclusions on the safety and feasibility of these techniques for pancreatic 
cancer will require further structured investigation.

DOI: 10.1080/02656736.2018.1506165
PMID: 30428728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. BMC Cancer. 2018 Nov 14;18(1):1112. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-5012-3.

Rare case of neglected large sacral Chordoma in a young female treated by wide 
En bloc resection and Sacrectomy.

Phang ZH(1), Saw XY(2), Nor NFBM(3), Ahmad ZB(3), Ibrahim SB(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Hospital Sultan Ismail, Johor Bahru, Malaysia. 
phangzh@ummc.edu.my.
(2)University Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Orthopaedics, Hospital Sultan Ismail, Johor Bahru, Malaysia.

BACKGROUND: Sacral chordoma is a locally aggressive malignant tumour originating 
from ectopic notochordal cells. The natural history of sacral chordoma is a slow 
growing tumour arising at the midline of the lower sacrum that can invade the 
sacrum and progressively increase in size expanding cranially and anteriorly. 
Metastasis is very rare even when the tumour is large. Sacral chordoma affects 
males more than females and is more commonly found in middle age and elderly 
patients.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 25 years old female had neglected an extremely large 
midline sacral mass for 2 years. On presentation to hospital, she had been bed 
bound for the past 2 years. The sacral mass was so large that it prevented her 
from lying down supine and sitting on the wheelchair comfortably. Clinical 
examination showed a 40 cm × 30 cm × 20 cm hard mass over the sacrum that 
involved both buttocks and the gluteal fold. Neurological exam of bilateral 
lower limb was normal. Computed Tomography Scan of the Pelvis showed a large 
destructive sacrococcygeal mass measuring 43 cm × 38 cm × 27 cm with extension 
into the presacral space resulting in anterior displacement of the rectum, 
urinary bladder and uterus; and posterior extension into the dorsal soft tissue 
with involvement of the gluteus, piriformis, and left erector spinae muscles. 
Biopsy taken confirmed Chordoma. This patient was managed by a multidisciplinary 
team in an Oncology referral centre. The patient had undergone Wide En Bloc 
Resection and Sacrectomy, a complex surgery that was associated with 
complications namely bleeding, surgical site infection and neurogenic bowel and 
bladder. Six months post operatively the patient was able to lie supine and sit 
on wheelchair comfortably. She required extensive rehabilitation to help her 
ambulate in future.
CONCLUSION: This is a rare case of neglected sacral chordoma in a young female 
treated with Wide En Bloc Resection and Sacrectomy associated with complications 
of this complex surgery. Nevertheless, surgery is still worthwhile to improve 
the quality of life and to prevent complications secondary to prolonged 
immobilization. A multidisciplinary approach is ideal and team members need to 
be prepared to address the complications once they arise.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-018-5012-3
PMCID: PMC6234700
PMID: 30428857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: AUTHORS’ INFORMATION: ZBA and SBI are practicing 
consultant orthopaedic oncology surgeons in Hospital Sultan Ismail Johor Bahru 
Malaysia. NFBMN is an orthopaedic oncology fellow in Hospital Sultan Ismail 
Johor Bahru Malaysia. ZHP is an orthopaedic registrar and 2nd year Master of 
Orthopaedic Surgery trainee in Hospital Sultan Ismail Johor Bahru and University 
Malaya Medical Centre. XYS is an intern. ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO 
PARTICIPATE: This case report does not involve any active intervention on 
patients and therefore ethics approval is waived. The patient involved in this 
case study has learning disability. Therefore, the next of kin, the patient’s 
mother had consented for participation in this case study on behalf of the 
patient. The patient’s mother consented for publication of medical information 
including clinical photographs, histopathology slides and Computed Tomography 
scan in peer review journal. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Written informed consent 
was obtained from the patient’s next of kin for publication of this case report 
and any accompanying images. A copy of written consent is available for review 
by the Editor-in-Chief of this journal if requested. COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


834. Lung Cancer. 2018 Nov;125:1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2018.08.024. Epub 2018
Aug  30.

Economic analysis of osimertinib in previously untreated EGFR-mutant advanced 
non-small cell lung cancer in Canada.

Ezeife DA(1), Kirk V(2), Chew DS(3), Nixon NA(4), Lee R(5), Le LW(6), Chan 
KK(7), Leighl NB(5).

Author information:
(1)Princess Margaret Cancer Centre/University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada. Electronic address: doreen.ezeife@uhn.ca.
(2)University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(4)University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada; Tom Baker Cancer Centre, 
Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(5)Princess Margaret Cancer Centre/University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(6)Department of Biostatistics, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre/University 
Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(7)Sunnybrook Odette Cancer Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

INTRODUCTION: Osimertinib improves progression-free survival in previously 
untreated EGFR-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients, 
with marked intracranial response rates. However, its cost-effectiveness in a 
publically funded health care system has not been established. We assessed the 
cost-effectiveness of first-line osimertinib from the public payer perspective 
in the Canadian health care system.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to project the outcomes and direct medical 
costs of initial treatment with osimertinib or current standard-of-care (SoC) 
EGFR TKIs, gefinitib or afatinib, in patients with previously untreated 
EGFR-mutant advanced NSCLC. Clinical and cost input estimates were informed from 
the available literature. Model outcomes included costs (in 2018 Canadian 
dollars), life years (LYs), quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and the cost 
utility of osimertinib compared to SoC EGFR TKI, or incremental cost per QALY 
gained.
RESULTS: Initial treatment with osimertinib was associated with a gain of 0.79 
QALY [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.74 to 0.83] at an incremental cost of 
$176,394 CAD (95% CI, 176,383 to 176,405) vs. SoC EGFR TKI (incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio [ICER]: $223,133/QALY gained; 95%CI, 198,144 to 
252,805). Osimertinib had a 0% probability of being cost-effective at a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $100,000 per QALY. Deterministic sensitivity 
analysis showed that the cost of osimertinib had the largest impact on ICER 
results.
CONCLUSION: At the current marketed price, first-line osimertinib therapy in 
patients with advanced EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinoma is not cost-effective in 
Canada. Reduction of osimertinib cost, for example by 25%, can significantly 
improve the cost-effectiveness profile.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2018.08.024
PMID: 30429004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. J Neurol. 2019 Jan;266(1):133-147. doi: 10.1007/s00415-018-9112-4. Epub 2018
Nov  14.

Safety and efficacy of short- and long-term inspiratory muscle training in 
late-onset Pompe disease (LOPD): a pilot study.

Wenninger S(1), Greckl E(2), Babačić H(2), Stahl K(2), Schoser B(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Friedrich-Baur-Institute, Ludwig-Maximilians 
University Munich, Ziemssenstr. 1a, 80336, Munich, Germany. 
Stephan.Wenninger@med.uni-muenchen.de.
(2)Department of Neurology, Friedrich-Baur-Institute, Ludwig-Maximilians 
University Munich, Ziemssenstr. 1a, 80336, Munich, Germany.

BACKGROUND: In patients with late-onset Pompe disease, progressive respiratory 
muscle weakness with predominantly diaphragmatic involvement is a frequent 
finding at later stages of the disease. Respiratory muscle training (RMT) is an 
established therapy option for patients with several neuromuscular disorders 
including Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Forced voluntary muscle contractions of 
inspiration and/or expiration muscles enhance ventilation by increasing 
respiratory coordination, endurance, and strength. Efficacy of RMT in LOPD is 
rarely examined, and the clinical studies performed are difficult to compare 
because of different training programs and protocols. This impedes a useful 
statement and recommendation about the safety and efficacy of respiratory muscle 
training.
METHODS: We conducted a monocentric unblinded single-arm pilot study in patients 
with LOPD to evaluate the safety and efficacy of inspiratory muscle training 
(IMT). The primary objective was to determine the efficacy of a 6-week 
repetitive IMT with a gradual increase of inspiratory resistance, measured by 
MIP (maximum inspiratory pressure) in the upright position. For statistical 
analysis, we used an A-B-C single subject design. The 6-week training-period A 
was followed by a 6-week non-training period B and an optional training period 
of 40 weeks in period C. The total study duration for the periods A, B and C was 
52 weeks. Throughout the study, spirometry assessments (FCV, FEV1) and 
measurements of respiratory strength (MIP, MEP) were performed at defined time 
points, as well as capillary oximetry and capnometry, motor function test and 
patient's questionnaires for quality of life and dyspnea, measured by St. 
George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) and MMRC-Dyspnea scale. For the 
cross-sectional comparison, a paired two-sided t test, and for the longitudinal 
comparison, a two-sample, two-sided t test were used. When data were not 
normally distributed, a Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test was added. Finally, the 
annual decline in FVC and FEV1 before and after IMT was compared.
FINDINGS: 11 subjects were included in this pilot study. Overall, IMT was well 
tolerated. In four subjects, a total of six adverse events related to the study 
procedures were noticed. Training compliance was excellent in the first weeks of 
training, but declined continuously in the extension period. There was a 
significant increase in our primary outcome measure MIP within the 6-week period 
of frequent IMT with a mean of 15.7% (p =0.024; d =0.402). A significant 
increase was also seen after week 52 by a mean of + 26.4% (mean + 13.4 cmH2O, 
p =0.001, d =0.636). In the 6-week non-training interim-period (period B), the 
values remained stable, and there was no clinically meaningful decline in 
secondary outcome measures. The increase in MIP did not have any effect on 
secondary outcome measures like spirometry tests (FVC, FEV1), capillary blood 
gas analysis, motor function tests, patient's perceived quality of life or any 
significant change in dyspnea score.
CONCLUSIONS: Frequent IMT improves MIP and thereby stabilizes and decelerates 
the decline of the diaphragm strength. The gradual increase of inspiratory 
resistance is well tolerated without any increase of side effects, as long as 
IMT is supervised and resistance is individually adjusted to the patient's 
perceived grade of exhaustion. Although we could not detect a significant impact 
on secondary outcome measures, IMT should be offered to all LOPD patients, 
especially to those who demonstrate a progressive decline in respiratory muscle 
function or are unable to receive ERT.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-018-9112-4
PMID: 30430231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. BioDrugs. 2018 Dec;32(6):561-570. doi: 10.1007/s40259-018-0315-0.

Bispecific Antibody Emicizumab for Haemophilia A: A Breakthrough for Patients 
with Inhibitors.

Mahlangu JN(1).

Author information:
(1)Hemophilia Comprehensive Care Centre, Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic 
Hospital and Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand and 
NHLS, 7 York Road, Parktown, Johannesburg, 2193, South Africa. 
johnny.mahlangu@nhls.ac.za.

Current unmet needs in haemophilia A patients with inhibitors include the need 
for intravenous infusion of replacement therapy and the high burden of treatment 
associated with prophylaxis. Emicizumab is a humanised bispecific monoclonal 
antibody designed to address these unmet needs and has completed phase III 
clinical trials in adolescents/adults (HAVEN 1) and paediatric (HAVEN 2) 
inhibitor populations. In HAVEN 1, there was an 80% bleed reduction across all 
bleeds, 89% reduction in treated joint bleeds, 92% reduction in treated 
spontaneous bleeds, and 95% reduction in treated target joint bleeds on 
emicizumab compared with no prophylaxis. In HAVEN 2, there was a 63% reduction 
in all bleeds, 94.7% reduction in treated bleeds, 94.7% reduction in 
treated spontaneous bleeds, 100% reduction in treated joint bleeds, and 100% 
reduction in treated target joint bleeds on emicizumab prophylaxis when compared 
with no prophylaxis. For patients on bypassing agent prophylaxis, emicizumab 
resulted in a 68% reduction in bleeds in HAVEN 1 and a 100% reduction in bleed 
rates in HAVEN 2. In HAVEN 1, three patients developed thrombotic 
microangiopathy (TMA) and two developed thrombosis when emicizumab was used 
together with an activated prothrombin complex concentrate (aPCC) at high or 
frequent doses. When the combination was avoided in HAVEN 2, no patient 
developed TMA or thrombosis. In both studies, no anti-emicizumab antibodies 
developed and the pharmacokinetic profile of emicizumab was similar. Emicizumab 
use is currently being explored in haemophilia A patients without inhibitors as 
well as in combination with other haemophilia A replacement therapies. The role 
of emicizumab in combination with current factor VIII replacement therapies and 
evolving non-replacement therapies remains to be established.

DOI: 10.1007/s40259-018-0315-0
PMID: 30430367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Pharmacoeconomics. 2019 Feb;37(2):267-278. doi: 10.1007/s40273-018-0736-0.

Weight Reduction and Pioglitazone are Cost-Effective for the Treatment of 
Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in Thailand.

Chongmelaxme B(1), Phisalprapa P(2), Sawangjit R(3)(4), Dilokthornsakul P(5), 
Chaiyakunapruk N(6)(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Center of Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research, Department of Pharmacy Practice, 
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Naresuan University, 65000, Phitsanulok, 
Thailand.
(2)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol 
University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(3)Clinical Pharmacy Research Unit, Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Faculty of 
Pharmacy, Mahasarakham University, Mahasarakham, Thailand.
(4)School of Pharmacy, Monash University Malaysia, Selangor, Malaysia.
(5)Center of Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research, Department of Pharmacy Practice, 
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Naresuan University, 65000, Phitsanulok, 
Thailand. piyamethd@gmail.com.
(6)Center of Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research, Department of Pharmacy Practice, 
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Naresuan University, 65000, Phitsanulok, 
Thailand. nathorn.chaiyakunapruk@monash.edu.
(7)School of Pharmacy, Monash University Malaysia, Selangor, Malaysia. 
nathorn.chaiyakunapruk@monash.edu.
(8)School of Pharmacy, University of Wisconsin, Wisconsin, MA, USA. 
nathorn.chaiyakunapruk@monash.edu.
(9)Asian Centre for Evidence Synthesis in Population, Implementation and 
Clinical Outcomes (PICO), Health and Well-Being Cluster, Global Asia in the 21st 
Century (GA21) Platform, Monash University Malaysia, Bandar Sunway, Selangor, 
Malaysia. nathorn.chaiyakunapruk@monash.edu.

Erratum in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2018 Dec 13;:

INTRODUCTION: This study evaluated lifetime liver-related clinical outcomes, 
costs of treatment, and the cost-effectiveness of treatment options for 
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in Thailand.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis using a lifetime Markov model was conducted 
among Thai patients with NAFLD, from a societal perspective. Pioglitazone, 
vitamin E, a weight reduction program, and usual care were investigated, with 
the outcomes of interest being the number of cirrhosis and hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC) cases, life expectancy, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), 
lifetime costs, and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). One-way 
and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: When compared with usual care, a weight reduction program can prevent 
cirrhosis and HCC cases by 13.91% (95% credible interval [CrI] 0.97, 20.59) and 
2.12% (95% CrI 0.43, 4.56), respectively; pioglitazone can prevent cirrhosis and 
HCC cases by 9.30% (95% CrI -2.52, 15.24) and 1.42% (95% CrI -0.18, 3.74), 
respectively; and vitamin E can prevent cirrhosis and HCC cases by 7.32% (95% 
CrI -4.64, 15.56) and 1.12% (95% CrI -0.81, 3.44), respectively. Estimated 
incremental life expectancy and incremental QALYs for all treatment options 
compared with usual care were approximately 0.06 years and 0.07 QALYs, 
respectively. The lifetime costs of both a weight reduction program and 
pioglitazone were less than usual care, while vitamin E was $3050 (95% CrI 2354, 
3650). The weight reduction program dominated all other treatment options. The 
probability of being cost-effective in Thailand's willingness-to-pay threshold 
($4546/QALY gained) was 76% for the weight reduction program, 22% for 
pioglitazone, 2% for usual care, and 0% for vitamin E.
CONCLUSIONS: A weight reduction program can prevent cirrhosis and HCC 
occurrences, and dominates all other treatment options. Pioglitazone and vitamin 
E demonstrated a trend towards decreasing the number of cirrhosis and HCC cases.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-018-0736-0
PMID: 30430467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Tunis Med. 2018 Apr;96(4):160-166.

Early outcomes of cardiac surgery in elderly patients.

Mzoughi K, Zairi I, Daly M, Ziadi J, Kamoun S, Ben Moussa F, Fennira S, Kraiem 
S.

BACKGROUND: Due to the increase in average life expectancy and the higher 
incidence of cardiovascular disease, more elderly patients present for cardiac 
surgery nowadays. At the same time, age has been considered a predictor of 
morbidity and mortality.
AIM: To evaluate the short-term outcomes of cardiac surgery in elderly patients.
METHODS: We conducted a descriptive retrospective study including elderly 
patients who underwent cardiac surgery from January 2012 to 31st of December 
2016. All patients were hospitalized before and after cardiac surgery in the 
cardiology department of Habib Thameur Hospital.
RESULTS: Our study included 55 patients. Average age was 72±6 years old and 
sex-ratio was two. Eighty-five percent presented with angina, 18% with dyspnea 
and one patient with an aortic prosthetic valve endocarditis. Mean left 
ventricular function was 54 ±9 %. Mean EuroSCORE II was 1.91±1.18. Twenty-six 
per-cent had an urgent surgery. Mean extracorporeal circulation time was of 
77±26 min and mean extubation time was 8±6 h. Eighty-four per cent had a 
coronary artery bybass grafting and 16% a valve replacement. Four per cent had a 
redux and 4% a combined surgery. Stay in surgical department varied between 3 
and 10 days with average of 4.6±1.2 days. Early mortality rate was of 2% and 98% 
had complications. Ninety-eight complications occurred after surgery: 35 
reintervention for mediastinal bleeding or tamponade, 28 bleedings requiring 
transfusions, eight heart rhythm disorders, an atrioventricular conduction block 
requiring ventricular, five atrial fibrillation, two ventricular tachycardias, a 
ventricular fibrillation, eight low cardiac outpout, seven prolonged mechanical 
ventilation and eight pneumonias. In univariate analysis, recent myocardial 
infarction and chronic kidney disease were predictive of early complications.
CONCLUSION: Our data shows cardiac surgery is feasible in elderly patients with 
acceptable risk in terms of mortality and an increased morbidity due to their 
frailty. Careful patient selection is needed for the success of cardiac surgery 
in elderly patients.

PMID: 30430517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Mol Med Rep. 2019 Jan;19(1):477-489. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2018.9638. Epub 2018
Nov  9.

Meta‑analysis of current chemotherapy regimens in advanced pancreatic cancer to 
prolong survival and reduce treatment‑associated toxicities.

Chen J(#)(1), Chen L(#)(2), Yu J(#)(3), Xu Y(#)(2), Wang X(4), Zeng Z(5), Liu 
N(6), Xu F(5), Yang S(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Chinese Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University 
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, SAR 999077, P.R. China.
(2)Division of General Practice, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, Sichuan 610041, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chengdu Medical 
College, Chengdu, Sichuan 610500, P.R. China.
(4)Department of General Surgery, Bayingol Mongolia Autonomous Prefecture 
People's Hospital, Urumqi, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region 841300, P.R. China.
(5)Public Health School, Chengdu Medical College, Chengdu, Sichuan 610500, P.R. 
China.
(6)Department of Medicine, Sunshine Guojian Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Shanghai 
201203, P.R. China.
(#)Contributed equally

Unresectable advanced pancreatic cancer (APC) is a highly lethal malignancy. 
Although numerous chemotherapeutic regimens are available, evidence regarding 
the survival extension, the life quality improvement, the associated risks and 
occurrence rates of adverse effects, is required. The effects of 19 chemotherapy 
regimens on survival and treatment‑associated toxicities in the context of APC 
treatment were comparatively assessed. A total of 23 randomized controlled 
trials were included in this network meta‑analysis. For overall survival, five 
regimens, Gemcitabine (Gem)+radiotherapy (Radio), Gem+cisplatin (Cis), 
Gem+erlotinib (Erl)+bevacizumab (Bev), Gem+capecitabine (Cap)+Erl, and 
Gem+exatecan, were the most effective treatments, according to their respective 
high surface under the cumulative ranking (SUCRA) probabilities. Regarding the 
progression‑free survival, five regimens, including Gem+Radio, Gem+Erl+Bev, 
Gem+Cis, Gem+Cap+Erl and Gem+pemetrexed, were the most effective treatments 
based on their SUCRA probabilities. Each regimen exhibited advantages and 
disadvantages, and 14 common treatment‑associated toxicities were present in 
different proportions. The three principal toxic effects included 
haematological, gastrointestinal and constitutional symptoms. To improve 
survival, chemotherapy regimens with high SUCRA probabilities require 
prioritizing. Although treatment‑associated toxicities are unavoidable, the 
regimens presented toxicities in distinct proportions. Therefore, clinicians 
should assess the disease status of the patients, and balance the benefits and 
risks of the selected treatment.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2018.9638
PMCID: PMC6297739
PMID: 30431091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Pancreatitis.

National Guideline Centre (UK).

London: National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE); 2018 Sep.
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence: Clinical Guidelines.

People with pancreatitis are at long-term risk of nutritional problems and 
diabetes, and also have an increased risk of pancreatic cancer, which is even 
higher in people with hereditary pancreatitis. It is necessary to identify those 
who need to be followed up and what tests are required. Pancreatitis is a 
serious and complex condition. It causes immense suffering, can have a severe 
effect on quality of life and may result in reduced life expectancy. In the 
past, there has been lack of knowledge on how to manage pancreatitis and this 
has resulted in clinicians avoiding those with the disease and conflicting 
advice being offered. With this guideline it is hoped that sound advice will be 
provided to enable people with pancreatitis to receive appropriate care to 
improve the outcomes from this difficult condition.

Copyright © NICE 2018.

PMID: 30431746841. Physiol Res. 2019 Mar 6;68(1):37-48. doi: 10.33549/physiolres.933958. Epub
2018  Oct 23.

Strain differences in intraluminal thread model of middle cerebral artery 
occlusion in rats.

Svoboda J(1), Litvinec A, Kala D, Pošusta A, Vávrová L, Jiruška P, Otáhal J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Physiology of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Prague 4, Czech 
Republic. jakub.otahal@fgu.cas.cz.

Stroke is despite of progressive improvements in treatment and reperfusion 
strategies one of the most devastating human pathology. However, as quality of 
acute health care improves and more people survive ischemic attack, healthcare 
specialists have to solve new challenges to preserve reasonable quality of life 
to these patients. Thus, novel approaches which prevents comorbidities of stroke 
and improve quality of life of stroke survivors in general has to be developed 
and experimentally tested. The aim of the present paper was to establish 
reliable rat model of middle cerebral occlusion and set of methods allowing 
selection of animals suitable for long-term experiments. We have compared 
mortality rates, cerebral blood flow and extension of ischemic lesion induced by 
intraluminal filament in three widely used outbred rat strains. We have 
additionally used an animal 18F-DG PET scans to verify its reliability in 
noninvasive detection of ischemic infarct in acute period (24 h after MCAO) for 
selecting animals eligible for long survival experiments. Our data clearly 
indicates that high variability between rat strains might negatively influence 
stroke induction by intraluminal thread occlusion of middle cerebral artery. 
Most reliable outbred rat strain in our hands was Sprague-Dawley where maximal 
reduction of cerebral blood flow and extensive ischemic lesion was observed. 
Contrary, Wistar rats exhibited higher mortality and Long-Evans rats 
significantly smaller or no ischemic region in comparison to Sprague-Dawley. 
Additionally, we have confirmed a positron emission tomography with 
18F-fluorodeoxyglucose as suitable method to assess extension of ischemic region 
in acute period after the experimental arterial occlusion in rats.

DOI: 10.33549/physiolres.933958
PMID: 30433803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. J Clin Neuromuscul Dis. 2018 Dec;20(2):85-93. doi:
10.1097/CND.0000000000000204.

Current Cardiac Imaging Approaches in Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy.

Poonja S(1), Power A(1), Mah JK(1)(2), Fine NM(2), Greenway SC(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Alberta Children's Hospital Research Institute, 
Cumming School of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.
(2)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Cumming School of Medicine, University 
of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.
(3)Department of Cardiac Sciences, Libin Cardiovascular Institute of Alberta, 
Cumming School of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is an X-linked neuromuscular condition caused 
by mutations in the dystrophin gene leading to skeletal muscle weakness and 
dilated cardiomyopathy. The prevalence of DMD-related cardiomyopathy increases 
with age and is almost universal by the third decade of life. Myocardial 
fibrosis and progressive left ventricular dysfunction lead to the development of 
heart failure and premature death. With modern advances in medical and surgical 
management for patients with DMD increasing their life expectancy, cardiac 
dysfunction represents an increasing cause of morbidity and mortality in these 
patients. Early diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy before symptom development 
enables the initiation of potentially disease-modifying therapies, but requires 
regular dedicated imaging surveillance with sufficient sensitivity to detect 
subclinical changes in cardiac structure and function. Currently, transthoracic 
echocardiography (TTE) and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) are commonly 
used and have complementary roles. TTE is rapid and readily available, whereas 
CMR is the gold standard for the quantification of ventricular structure and 
function and can detect the presence and extent of myocardial fibrosis, an 
increasingly appreciated marker for early disease. This review describes the 
clinical applications, advantages, and disadvantages of cardiac imaging 
screening and surveillance for the myocardial manifestations of DMD, with a 
particular focus on TTE and CMR.

DOI: 10.1097/CND.0000000000000204
PMID: 30439754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2018 Jul;2018:1576-1579. doi: 
10.1109/EMBC.2018.8512535.

Teenagers' Usage of a Mobile-Wearable-Cloud Platform to Promote Healthy 
Lifestyles: the PEGASO Experience().

Caon M, Carrino S, Angelini L, Khaled OA, Mugellini E, Velickovski F, Andreoni 
G.

In contemporary society, non-communicable diseases linked to unhealthy 
lifestyles, such as obesity, are on the rise with a major impact on global 
deaths. Prevention is the new frontier, promising to increase life expectancy 
and quality, while reducing costs related to healthcare. The PEGASO project 
developed a mobile ecosystem where the digital Companion aims at empowering 
teenagers in the adoption of healthy lifestyles. The pilot study conducted in 
three European countries (Spain, UK and Italy) shows a good acceptance of the 
system and that teenagers are keen to use mobile technology to improve their 
lifestyle, although wearable devices did not engage the young users.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC.2018.8512535
PMID: 30440694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2018 Jul;2018:1781-1784. doi: 
10.1109/EMBC.2018.8512540.

Design And Experiment Of A Passive Sit-To-Stand And Walking (STSW) Assistance 
Device For The Elderly.

Kim SW, Song J, Suh S, Lee W, Kang S.

Most elderly people complain about the discomfort of movements such as a 
sit-to-stand (STS) motion through losing their muscular strength of lower 
extremity over aging. This paper presents a novel passive sit-to-stand and 
walking (STSW) assistance device to aid in physical support for indoor daily 
life of the elderly. The STSW assistance device is actuated by a pneumatic 
cylinder and a gas spring. The standing motion is driven by extension of 
actuators and the sitting motion is driven naturally with gravitational force of 
user's weight that reloads actuators. The effect of physical support by using 
this device was evaluated by experiment with measuring electromyograph signals 
of subjects during STS motion. As a result, the reduction rate of average 
maximal voluntary isometric contraction with assistance by the STSW device is 
about 51.2%. This means that users with the assistive device can stand up by 
using only about half of muscular activation in the case of natural standing up.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC.2018.8512540
PMID: 30440739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Vnitr Lek. 2018 Fall;64(9):839-846.

What we know about epidemiology of heart failure in Slovakia and globally.

[Article in English]

Goncalvesová E, Danková M.

Heart failure (HF) is nowadays some of the most significant causes of mortality 
and morbidity, as well as one of the leading causes of hospitalization. 
Increasing number of patients with HF is becoming one of the most burning 
problems not only for health care, but also for the social welfare system. The 
knowledge of the epidemiology is crucial for rational planning and management of 
curative and preventive health care and allocation of research capacities. The 
sources of data for description of basic epidemiological characteristic of HF in 
Slovakia come from cross sectional surveys of outpatient care and 
hospitalization records of patients with heart failure, publicized sources of 
the National health information center and database of health care provision 
gathered by health insurer Dôvera. Crude prevalence of HF in Slovakia is 2.3%. 
Age specific prevalence ranging from 31/1 000 in habitants aged 50-54 up to 
189/1 000 in the 80-84 age group. Average age in male population was 61.8 (± 8) 
and women 65.6 (± 9.3) years. In the functional class NYNA I were 10 %, in class 
NYHA II 45%, NYHA III 32% a NYHA IV 3 % patients with chronic heart failure. The 
most prevalent dominant cause of HF, 50-60 % of cases, is ischemic heart 
disease. Left ventricular ejection fraction of less than 40 % was observed in 
26 % of patients followed up in general practice and 43 % of patients in care of 
the specialists. The exact data on HF incidence in Slovakia are no available. 
Incidence of hospitalizations for the newly diagnosed HF was 120 in one hundred 
thousand people a year, which could be considered bottom limit of incidence. The 
number of hospitalizations for HF grows dramatically from 9 060 in 2005 to 
22 112 in 2017. The average length of hospitalization in 2015 was 9.4 ± 
9.7 days. Hospitalization mortality, despite trend to decline, remains high at 
6.2 %. It is estimated that prevalence of chronic HF will grow further fueled by 
population aging, the treatment success of acute cardiovascular and congenital 
heart diseases, prevention of sudden heart failure, and also prolongation of 
life expectancy in patients with HF. Both material and human in health care 
resources need to adapt to this visible trend. Key words: heart failure - 
hospitalizations - incidence - prevalence.

PMID: 30441996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Value Health. 2018 Nov;21(11):1322-1329. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2018.05.005.
Epub  2018 Jul 26.

Mapping ALSFRS-R and ALSUI to EQ-5D in Patients with Motor Neuron Disease.

Moore A(1), Young CA(2), Hughes DA(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Medicines Evaluation, Bangor University, 
Bangor, UK.
(2)The Walton Centre NHS Trust, Liverpool, UK.
(3)Centre for Health Economics and Medicines Evaluation, Bangor University, 
Bangor, UK. Electronic address: d.a.hughes@bangor.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: The Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Functional Rating Scale-Revised 
(ALSFRS-R) is the preferred measure of health outcome in clinical trials in 
motor neuron disease (MND). It, however, does not provide a preference-based 
health utility score required for estimating quality-adjusted life-years in 
economic evaluations for health technology assessments.
OBJECTIVES: To develop algorithms for mapping from measures used in MND clinical 
studies to allow for future prediction of the five-level EuroQol 
five-dimensional questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L) utility in populations of patients 
with MND when utility data have not been collected.
METHODS: Direct mapping models were developed using ordinary least squares and 
Tobit regression analyses to estimate EQ-5D-5L utilities (based on English 
tariffs), with ALSFRS-R total, domain, and item scores used as explanatory 
variables, using patient-level data from a UK cohort study. Indirect mapping 
models were also used to map EQ-5D-5L domains, using the same variables, along 
with the Neuropathic Pain Scale and the Hospital and Anxiety Depression Scale 
for MND using multinomial logistic regression analysis. Goodness of fit was 
assessed along with predicted values for each mapping model.
RESULTS: The best-performing model predicting EQ-5D-5L utilities used five items 
of the ALSFRS-R items as explanatory variables in a stepwise ordinary least 
squares regression. The mean squared error was 0.0228, and the mean absolute 
error was 0.1173. Prediction was good, with 55.4% of estimated values within 0.1 
and 91.4% within 0.25 of the observed EQ-5D-5L utility value. Indirect mapping 
using the Neuropathic Pain Scale and the Hospital and Anxiety Depression Scale 
for MND provided less predictive power than direct mapping models.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to present mapping algorithms to crosswalk 
between ALSFRS-R and EQ-5D-5L. This analysis demonstrates that the ALSFRS-R can 
be used to estimate EQ-5D-5L utilities when they have not been collected 
directly within a trial.

Copyright © 2018 ISPOR--The Professional Society for Health Economics and 
Outcomes Research. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2018.05.005
PMID: 30442280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Value Health. 2018 Nov;21(11):1330-1337. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2018.04.1370.
Epub  2018 May 18.

Time Trade-Off Value Set for EQ-5D-3L Based on a Nationally Representative 
Chinese Population Survey.

Zhuo L(1), Xu L(2), Ye J(3), Sun S(4), Zhang Y(2), Burstrom K(5), Chen J(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Health Policy and Management, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu, China; School of Public Health, Xuzhou Medical University, Xuzhou, 
Jiangsu, China.
(2)Center for Statistics and Information, National Health and Family Planning 
Commission, Beijing, China.
(3)School of Public Health, Xuzhou Medical University, Xuzhou, Jiangsu, China.
(4)Health Outcomes and Economic Evaluation Research Group, Stockholm Centre for 
Healthcare Ethics, Department of Learning, Informatics, Management and Ethics, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; Division of Epidemiology and Global 
Health, Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Umeå University, 
Umeå, Sweden.
(5)Health Outcomes and Economic Evaluation Research Group, Stockholm Centre for 
Healthcare Ethics, Department of Learning, Informatics, Management and Ethics, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; Equity and Health Policy Research 
Group, Department of Public Health Sciences, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden; Center for Health Policy Studies, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu, China.
(6)School of Health Policy and Management, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu, China; Center for Health Policy Studies, Nanjing Medical University, 
Nanjing, Jiangsu, China. Electronic address: jychen@njmu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVES: To obtain a nationally representative Chinese three-level EuroQol 
five-dimensional questionnaire value set based on the time trade-off (TTO) 
method.
METHODS: A multistage, stratified, clustered random nationally representative 
Chinese sample was used. The study design followed an adapted UK Measurement and 
Valuation of Health protocol. Each respondent valued 11 random states plus state 
33333 and "unconscious" using the TTO method in face-to-face interviews. Three 
types of models were explored: ordinary least squares, general least squares, 
and weighted least squares models.
RESULTS: In total, 5939 inhabitants aged 15 years and older were interviewed. Of 
these, 5503 satisfactorily interviewed participants were included in 
constructing models. An ordinary least squares model including 10 dummies 
without constant and N3 had a mean absolute error of 0.083 and a correlation 
coefficient of 0.899 between the predicted and mean values. Goodness-of-fit 
indices of two models based on split subsample were similar.
CONCLUSIONS: TTO values were higher in our study compared with those in a study 
carried out in urban areas, which is mirrored by the higher values in rural 
areas. Several other aspects, in addition to the valuation procedure, might have 
influenced the results, such as factors beyond demographic factors such as view 
on life and death and believing in an afterlife, which need further 
investigation. Future studies using the three-level EuroQol five-dimensional 
questionnaire should consider using this value set based on a nationally 
representative sample of the Chinese population.

Copyright © 2018 ISPOR--The Professional Society for Health Economics and 
Outcomes Research. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2018.04.1370
PMID: 30442281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Value Health. 2018 Nov;21(11):1338-1345. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2018.03.019.
Epub  2018 Jun 19.

Health State Values Derived from People with Multiple Sclerosis for a 
Condition-Specific Preference-Based Measure: Multiple Sclerosis Impact 
Scale-Eight Dimensions-Patient Version (MSIS-8D-P).

Goodwin E(1), Green C(2), Hawton A(2).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Group, Institute of Health Research, University of Exeter, 
Exeter, UK. Electronic address: e.goodwin@exeter.ac.uk.
(2)Health Economics Group, Institute of Health Research, University of Exeter, 
Exeter, UK; South West Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research 
and Care (PenCLAHRC), University of Exeter Medical School, University of Exeter, 
Exeter, UK.

OBJECTIVE: In economic evaluation, health outcomes are commonly quantified using 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) derived from the preferences of a sample of 
the general population. It can be argued that this approach ignores the 
preferences of people with experience of the condition, and that patient 
preferences have a place in the valuation of health outcomes. Here we report the 
estimation of a preference-based index for an existing condition-specific 
preference-based measure for multiple sclerosis (MS), the MSIS-8D, based on the 
preferences of people with MS.
STUDY DESIGN: Internet time trade-off (TTO) survey, eliciting preferences from 
people with MS.
METHODS: We elicited preferences from a sample of people with MS (N = 1635) 
across 169 MSIS-8D health states, using the TTO technique. We fitted ordinary 
least squares and random effects models to the survey data to estimate values 
for all health states described by the MSIS-8D.
RESULTS: The new patient-derived index (the MSIS-8D-P) provides values ranging 
from 0.893 for the best possible health state to 0.138 for the worst state. The 
MSIS-8D-P exhibits good discriminative validity, identifying expected 
significant differences between groups based on presence/absence of MS, type of 
MS, and duration since diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: The MSIS-8D-P index of values for MS-specific health states 
provides an opportunity to estimate QALYs based on patient preferences, for use 
in economic evaluations of treatments for MS. More broadly, it adds to the 
methods and data available to consider the health-related quality of life of 
people with MS to inform resource allocation and individual-level decisions 
regarding treatments for MS.

Copyright © 2018 ISPOR--The Professional Society for Health Economics and 
Outcomes Research. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2018.03.019
PMID: 30442282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Gac Sanit. 2020 Jan-Feb;34(1):61-68. doi: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2018.07.012. Epub
 2018 Nov 12.

Probabilistic cost-utility analysis and expected value of perfect information 
for the Oncotype multigenic test: a discrete event simulation model.

Ibarrondo O(1), Álvarez-López I(2), Freundlich F(3), Arrospide A(4), Galve-Calvo 
E(5), Gutiérrez-Toribio M(6), Plazaola A(7), Mar J(4).

Author information:
(1)AP-OSI Research Unit, Alto Deba Integrated Health Care Organization, 
Mondragon, Spain. Electronic address: Oliver.IbarrondoOlaguenaga@osakidetza.eus.
(2)Medical Oncology Service, Donostia University Hospital, Donostia-San 
Sebastian, Spain.
(3)Faculty of Business, Mondragon University, Oñati, Spain.
(4)AP-OSI Research Unit, Alto Deba Integrated Health Care Organization, 
Mondragon, Spain; Biodonostia Health Research Institute, Donostia-San Sebastian, 
Spain; Network for Health Services Research on Chronic Patients (REDISSEC), 
Kronikgune Group, Bilbao, Spain.
(5)Medical Oncology Service, Basurto University Hospital, Bilbao, Spain.
(6)Medical Oncology Service, Araba University Hospital, Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain.
(7)Medical Oncology Service, Onkologikoa, Donostia-San Sebastian, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: To carry out a cost-utility analysis of the application of the 
Oncotype genomic test to inform the decision to use or not to use chemotherapy 
in the Basque Country (Spain).
METHOD: The cost-utility study was carried out using a discrete event simulation 
model representing the natural history of breast cancer. The decision of 
treatment with chemotherapy based on Oncotype was compared with the standard of 
treatment based on clinical-pathological criteria. The model included clinical 
data from Basque hospitals and the literature and was processed by deterministic 
and probabilistic analysis to calculate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER), the cost-effectiveness plane, the acceptability curve and the expected 
value of perfect information. The study adopted both a health and societal 
perspective.
RESULTS: From a health perspective, the deterministic analysis estimated an ICER 
for Oncotype of 17,453 euros/quality-adjusted life year (QALY), discount 
included, and 9,613 euros/QALY without the discount. Eighty five percent (85%) 
of the simulations were below the efficiency threshold for Spain. The parametric 
variability associated with the Oncotype results was the main uncertainty factor 
in the decision.
CONCLUSIONS: Oncotype is a cost-effective intervention from a health system 
perspective since each QALY gained costs less than 25,000 euros. From a societal 
perspective, it is dominant since it provides greater health and is accompanied 
by cost savings.

Copyright © 2018 SESPAS. Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2018.07.012
PMID: 30442434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2018 Nov;16(11):1353-1360. doi:
10.6004/jnccn.2018.7060.

Undertreatment of High-Risk Localized Prostate Cancer in the California Latino 
Population.

Lichtensztajn DY, Leppert JT, Brooks JD, Shah SA, Sieh W, Chung BI, Gomez SL, 
Cheng I.

Background: The NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology recommend 
definitive therapy for all men with high-risk localized prostate cancer (PCa) 
who have a life expectancy >5 years or who are symptomatic. However, the 
application of these guidelines may vary among ethnic groups. We compared 
receipt of guideline-concordant treatment between Latino and non-Latino white 
men in California. Methods: California Cancer Registry data were used to 
identify 2,421 Latino and 8,636 non-Latino white men diagnosed with high-risk 
localized PCa from 2010 through 2014. The association of clinical and 
sociodemographic factors with definitive treatment was examined using logistic 
regression, overall and by ethnicity. Results: Latinos were less likely than 
non-Latino whites to receive definitive treatment before (odds ratio [OR], 0.79; 
95% CI, 0.71-0.88) and after adjusting for age and tumor characteristics (OR, 
0.84; 95% CI, 0.75-0.95). Additional adjustment for sociodemographic factors 
eliminated the disparity. However, the association with treatment differed by 
ethnicity for several factors. Latino men with no health insurance were 
considerably less likely to receive definitive treatment relative to insured 
Latino men (OR, 0.34; 95% CI, 0.23-0.49), an association that was more 
pronounced than among non-Latino whites (OR, 0.63; 95% CI, 0.47-0.83). 
Intermediate-versus high-grade disease was associated with lower odds of 
definitive treatment in Latinos (OR, 0.75; 95% CI, 0.59-0.97) but not non-Latino 
whites. Younger age and care at NCI-designated Cancer Centers were significantly 
associated with receipt of definitive treatment in non-Latino whites but not in 
Latinos. Conclusions: California Latino men diagnosed with localized high-risk 
PCa are at increased risk for undertreatment. The observed treatment disparity 
is largely explained by sociodemographic factors, suggesting it may be 
ameliorated through targeted outreach, such as that aimed at younger and 
underinsured Latino men.

Copyright © 2018 by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2018.7060
PMCID: PMC6314834
PMID: 30442735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Front Physiol. 2018 Nov 1;9:1524. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2018.01524. eCollection
 2018.

Changes of Maximum Leg Strength Indices During Adulthood a Cross-Sectional Study 
With Non-athletic Men Aged 19-91.

Kemmler W(1), von Stengel S(1), Schoene D(1), Kohl M(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Physics, University of Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, 
Germany.
(2)Faculty of Medical and Life Sciences, University of Furtwangen, Schwenningen, 
Germany.

Age-related loss of muscle mass and function, also called sarcopenia, was 
recently added to the ICD-10 as an independent condition. However, declines in 
muscle mass and function are inevitable during the adulthood aging process. 
Concerning muscle strength as a crucial aspect of muscle function, maximum knee 
extension strength might be the most important physical parameter for 
independent living in the community. In this study, we aimed to determine the 
age-related decline in maximum isokinetic knee extension (MIES) and flexion 
strength (MIFS) in adult men. The primary study hypothesis was that there is a 
slight gradual decrease of MIES up to ≈age 60 years with a significant 
acceleration of decline after this "changepoint." We used a closed kinetic chain 
system (leg-press), which is seen as providing functionally more relevant 
results on maximum strength, to determine changes in maximum isokinetic hip/leg 
extensor (MIES) and flexor strength (MIFS) during adulthood in men. Apart from 
average annual changes, we aimed to identify whether the decline in maximum 
lower extremity strength is linear. MIES and MIFS data determined by an 
isokinetic leg-press of 362 non-athletic, healthy, and community-dwelling men 
19-91 years old were included in the analysis. A changepoint analysis was 
conducted based on a multiple regression analysis adjusted for selected 
co-variables that might confound the proper relationship between age and maximum 
strength. In summary, maximum isokinetic leg-strength decline during adulthood 
averaged around 0.8-1.0% p.a.; however, the reduction was far from linear. MIES 
demonstrated a non-significant reduction of 5.2 N/p.a. (≈0.15% p.a.) up to the 
estimated breakpoint of 52.0 years and an accelerated loss of 44.0 N/p.a. (≈1.3% 
p.a.; p < 0.001). In parallel, the decline in MIFS (10.0 N/p.a.; ≈0.5% p.a.) 
prior to the breakpoint at age 59.0 years was significantly more pronounced. 
Nevertheless, we observed a further marked accelerated loss of MIFS (25.0 
N/p.a.; ≈1.3% p.a.) in men ≥60 years. Apart from the "normative value" and 
closed kinetic chain aspect of this study, the practical application of our 
results suggests that sarcopenia prophylaxis in men should be started in the 5th 
decade in order to address the accelerated muscle decline of advanced age.

DOI: 10.3389/fphys.2018.01524
PMCID: PMC6223067
PMID: 30443219


852. Front Psychiatry. 2018 Nov 1;9:530. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2018.00530.
eCollection  2018.

Early Post-stroke Depression and Mortality: Meta-Analysis and Meta-Regression.

Bartoli F(1), Di Brita C(1), Crocamo C(1), Clerici M(1), Carrà G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Milano-Bicocca, Milan, 
Italy.
(2)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, United Kingdom.

Background: Post-stroke depression (PSD) is a common and serious complication 
after stroke. In this systematic review and meta-analysis, we evaluated the 
association between early PSD and mortality, considering depressive symptoms 
occurring within the first 3 months after the neurological event. Methods: This 
meta-analysis was conducted following Meta-analysis Of Observational Studies in 
Epidemiology (MOOSE) guidelines and based on studies indexed till May 2018 in 
PubMed and Web of Science databases. The relative risk (RR) for mortality in 
individuals with PSD, as compared with non-depressed ones, was estimated. 
Findings were pooled according to a random-effects model. Meta-regression and 
subgroup analyses were carried out. Results: We included seven studies, 
accounting for 119,075 individuals, of whom 17,609 suffering from an early PSD. 
We found higher rates of mortality in subjects with PSD as compared with 
non-depressed ones (RR = 1.50; 95%CI: 1.28 to 1.75; p < 0.001). Heterogeneity 
across studies was moderate (I 2 = 50.7%). Subgroup analysis showed a slightly 
higher effect of PSD on short-term mortality (RR = 1.70; p < 0.001), as compared 
with long-term one (RR = 1.35; p = 0.01). According to relevant meta-regression 
analyses, the estimate was influenced by sample proportion of men (p = 0.043). 
Conclusions: Despite some limitations, our study shows the negative impact of 
early PSD on survival rates. Mechanisms underlying this association still need 
to be elucidated and several interpretations can be hypothesized. Future 
research should test if an early management of depression may increase life 
expectancy after stroke.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2018.00530
PMCID: PMC6221899
PMID: 30443225


853. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2018 Oct 24;18(5):1-141. eCollection 2018.

Cognitive Behavioural Therapy for Psychosis: A Health Technology Assessment.

