a willingness-to-pay threshold of $100 000 per QALY gained. Results- For 
patients with AF and AD, compared with warfarin, DOACs increase costs but also 
increase QALYs by reducing the risk of stroke. For mild-AD patients living in 
the community, edoxaban increased lifetime costs by $6603 and increased QALYs by 
0.076 compared to warfarin, yielding an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$86 882/QALY gained. Even though DOACs increased QALYs compared with warfarin 
for all patient groups (ranging from 0.019 to 0.085 additional QALYs), no DOAC 
treatment alternative had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio <$150 000/QALY 
gained for patients with moderate to severe AD. For patients living in a 
long-term care facility with mild AD, the DOAC with the lowest incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (rivaroxaban) costs $150 169 per QALY gained; for 
patients with more severe AD, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were 
higher. Conclusions- For patients with AF and mild AD living in the community, 
edoxaban is cost-effective compared with warfarin. Even though patients with 
moderate and severe AD living in the community and patients with any stage of AD 
living in a long-term care setting may obtain positive clinical benefits from 
anticoagulation treatment, DOACs are not cost-effective compared with warfarin 
for these populations. Compared to aspirin, no oral anticoagulation (warfarin or 
any DOAC) is cost effective in patients with AF and AD.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.118.022596
PMID: 30571418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Hypertension. 2019 Jan;73(1):121-131. doi:
10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.118.11715.

Comparative Cost-Effectiveness of Clinic, Home, or Ambulatory Blood Pressure 
Measurement for Hypertension Diagnosis in US Adults.

Beyhaghi H(1), Viera AJ(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Health Policy and Management, Gillings School of 
Global Public Health, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (H.B.).
(2)Department of Community and Family Medicine, Duke University, NC (A.J.V.).

Comment in
    Hypertension. 2019 Jan;73(1):45-46.

Previous cost-effectiveness models found ambulatory blood pressure monitoring 
(ABPM) to be a favorable strategy to diagnose hypertension; however, they mostly 
focused on older adults with a positive clinic blood pressure (BP) screen. We 
evaluated the cost-effectiveness of 3 methods of BP measurement for hypertension 
diagnosis in primary care settings among 14 age- and sex-stratified hypothetical 
cohorts (adults ≥21 years of age), accounting for the possibility of both 
false-positive (white-coat hypertension) and false-negative (masked 
hypertension) clinic measurements. We compared quality-adjusted life-years and 
lifetime costs ($US 2017 from the US healthcare perspective) associated with 
clinic BP measurement, home BP monitoring, and ABPM under 2 scenarios: positive 
and negative initial screen. Model parameters were obtained from published 
literature, publicly available data sources, and expert input. In the 
screen-positive scenario, ABPM was the dominant strategy among all age and sex 
groups. Compared with clinic BP measurement, ABPM was associated with 
cost-savings ranging from $77 (women 80 years of age) to $5013 (women 21 years 
of age). In the screen-negative scenario, ABPM was the dominant strategy in all 
men and women <80 years of age with cost-savings ranging from $128 (women 70 
years of age) to $2794 (women 21 years of age). Sensitivity analyses showed that 
results were sensitive to test specificity and antihypertensive medication 
costs. ABPM is recommended as the diagnostic strategy of choice for most adults 
in primary care settings regardless of initial screening results.

DOI: 10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.118.11715
PMID: 30571548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2018 Dec 10;39(12):1596-1601. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2018.12.011.

[Burden of cardiovascular diseases attributable to metabolism disorders, in 
Jiangsu province].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Yu H(1), Fan ZQ(2), Luo PF(1), Su J(1), Han RQ(1), Zhou JY(1).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Nanjing 210009, China.
(2)School of Public Health, Southeast University, Nanjing 210009, China.

Objective: To quantify the burden of cardiovascular disease (CVD) deaths that 
attributed to metabolic disorders in population aged ≥25 years in Jiangsu 
province. Methods: The data we used were from the following three sources: 1) 
2015 Jiangsu Chronic Disease Risk Factor and Nutrition Survey, 2) death 
surveillance, 3) results of the 2016 Global Burden of Disease Study, based on 
population attributable fractions (PAF), to analyze related parameters as 
mortality, years of life lost (YLL), life expectancy (LE) and premature 
mortality. Results: Most people died from ischemic stroke (IS) showed the 
standard mortality as 87.48/100 000. High SBP appeared as the major cause on CVD 
deaths. PAF with high cholesterol and high BMI decreased along with the increase 
of age while high fasting plasma glucose increased. Deaths due to ischemic heart 
diseases, IS or hemorrhagic stroke that attributed to metabolism disorders would 
reduce the LE by 1.08, 1.07 or 0.55 years, respectively. Males appeared to have 
higher YLL than females and were more likely to die from premature CVD, as the 
consequence of having metabolism disorders. Conclusions: Blood pressure control 
should be considered an important approach to reduce the burden of CVD. 
According to the characteristics of gender-related risks and the distinct impact 
of age-related metabolism disorders on different CVD diseases, stratified 
strategies should be strengthened for comprehensive prevention and control of 
CVD, in Jiangsu province.

Publisher: 目的： 估计2015年江苏省≥25岁人群归因于代谢异常的主要心血管病（CVD）的疾病负担情况。 方法： 
利用江苏省居民慢性病与营养监测调查、死因监测和2016年全球疾病负担资料，计算江苏省人群归因分值，估算江苏省人群归因于4种代谢异常的缺血性心脏病（IHD）、缺血性卒中（IS）和出血性卒中（HS）的死亡率、过早死亡损失寿命年（YLL）、期望寿命损失和早死概率。 
结果： 
3种CVD中，IS死亡率最高，标化死亡率为87.48/10万。高SBP是致CVD死亡的最主要的代谢原因。随着年龄增加，3种CVD的死亡归因于高TC和高BMI的比例下降，归因于高FPG的比例略有上升。代谢异常导致的IHD、IS、HS死亡使期望寿命分别下降1.08、1.07、0.55岁。男性YLL高于女性，且更易因各项代谢异常引起的CVD而发生过早死亡。 
结论： 应将控制血压作为减少CVD疾病负担的重要手段，同时考虑不同代谢因素对不同年龄阶段影响的差异，关注重点人群，制定适宜江苏省CVD综合防治的分层策略。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2018.12.011
PMID: 30572384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. J Policy Anal Manage. 2019;38(1):210-38.

Longevity-Related Options for Social Security: a Microsimulation Approach to 
Retirement Age and Mortality Adjustments.

Reznik GL(1), Couch KA(2), Tamborini CR(1), Iams HM(3).

Author information:
(1)Office of Retirement Policy at the Social Security Administration, 500 E 
Street, SW, Washington, DC 20254.
(2)Economics at the University of Connecticut, 325 Oak Hall, 365 Fairfield Way, 
U-1063, Storrs, CT 06269–1063.
(3)howard.iams@verizon.net

We consider the distributional implications of Social Security policy changes in 
the context of increases in life expectancy and differential mortality. Using a 
robust microsimulation model, we examine how several options for raising the 
retirement age, including a scenario that applies a mortality adjustment in 
combination with such policies, affect different types of individuals and 
households. Policy changes are simulated for Social Security beneficiaries in 
2030 using the Modeling Income in the Near Term (MINT) microsimulation model. 
The analysis shows that increasing either the age at which individuals receive 
their full retirement benefit alone or the early eligibility and full retirement 
ages together result in across-the-board reductions in benefit levels. The 
policies are projected to result in slightly higher poverty, but the expected 
rise is sharper among groups known to experience higher rates of mortality, as 
well as many disadvantaged groups. Analysis of a hypothetical adjustment to 
offset the historical impacts of differential mortality by lifetime earnings on 
lifetime benefit receipt, when combined with these retirement age increases, 
shows varied results. While some groups of individuals experience sharper 
reductions in median monthly benefits, the adjustment has an offsetting and 
protective effect for the benefits of disadvantaged groups when combined with 
options that would raise the retirement age. This combined package of policies, 
as well as simulations that incorporate a behavioral adjustment in benefit 
claiming ages, result in an increase of less than one percentage point in the 
average poverty rate.

PMID: 30572415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Int J Environ Health Res. 2019 Oct;29(5):582-592. doi: 
10.1080/09603123.2018.1557605. Epub 2018 Dec 21.

The burden of cardio-cerebrovascular disease and lung cancer attributable to 
PM(2.5) for 2009, Guangzhou: a retrospective population-based study.

Lin X(1), Liao Y(1), Hao Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Medical Statistics and Epidemiology & Health Information 
Research Center & Guangdong Key Laboratory of Medicine, School of Public Health, 
Sun Yat-sen University , Guangzhou , China.
(2)b Sun Yat-sen Global Health Institute, Sun Yat-sen University , Guangzhou , 
China.

Particulate matter pollution has become a widely-concerned issue in public 
health and led to a substantial loss of health. The study reports relationship 
between particulate matter with aerodynamic diameter <2.5 µm (PM2.5) and years 
of life lost (YLL) in Guangzhou. A retrospective burden analysis on annual mean 
PM2.5 data was conducted. Data on annual mortality were collected for 2009, from 
the Health Department of Guangzhou. Data on particulate matter were collected 
for period 2006-2009. Comparative risk assessment and exposure-response function 
were used to estimate attributable YLL. The exposure to PM2.5 was associated 
with a total of 454.6 YLLs (95% uncertainty interval 449.0-460.1) per 100,000 
people in 2009. This study has confirmed the substantial adverse health effects 
of PM2.5 exposure in population with cardio-cerebrovascular disease and lung 
cancer. This study highlights the need to reduce ambient particulate pollution 
for better environmental health and lower burden of disease.

DOI: 10.1080/09603123.2018.1557605
PMID: 30572714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Climacteric. 2019 Jun;22(3):217-222. doi: 10.1080/13697137.2018.1543263.
Epub  2018 Dec 21.

The prevalence of urinary incontinence.

Milsom I(1), Gyhagen M(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology , Sahlgrenska Academy at Gothenburg 
University , Gothenburg , Sweden.

The reported prevalence of urinary incontinence (UI) among women varies widely 
in different studies due to the use of different definitions, the heterogenicity 
of different study populations, and population sampling procedures. Population 
studies from numerous countries have reported that the prevalence of UI ranged 
from approximately 5% to 70%, with most studies reporting a prevalence of any UI 
in the range of 25-45%. Prevalence figures increase with increasing age, and in 
women aged ≥70 years more than 40% of the female population is affected. 
Prevalence rates are even higher in the elderly-elderly and amongst nursing home 
patients. There are only a few studies describing progression as well as 
remission of UI in the general population as well as in selected groups of the 
population. The mean annual incidence of UI has been reported to range from 1% 
to 9%, while estimates of remission are more varying, from 4% to 30%. The 
prevalence of UI is strongly related to the age of the woman and thus, due to 
the increase in mean life expectancy, the overall prevalence of UI in women is 
expected to increase in the future.

DOI: 10.1080/13697137.2018.1543263
PMID: 30572737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Am J Prev Med. 2019 Feb;56(2):196-204. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2018.09.020.
Epub  2018 Dec 17.

Cost Effectiveness of Meningococcal Serogroup B Vaccination in College-Aged 
Young Adults.

Leeds IL(1), Namasivayam V(2), Bamogo A(2), Sankhla P(2), Thayer WM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, Maryland; Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg 
School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland. 
Electronic address: ileeds@jhmi.edu.
(2)Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland.
(3)Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland; School of Nursing, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland.

INTRODUCTION: Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B is the most common form of 
meningococcal infection in young adults in the U.S. Vaccines have recently 
become available, but it is not clear that the benefits outweigh the costs. The 
purpose of this study was to assess cost effectiveness and determine potentially 
favorable conditions for universal vaccination.
METHODS: Costs and benefits of universal vaccination at college entry versus no 
universal vaccination with an outbreak response were estimated in 2018 in the 
context of a mid-sized U.S.-based 4-year college from both a health sector and a 
societal perspective. Probability, cost, and utility data were obtained from the 
published literature. Costs (2015 U.S.$) and benefits were discounted at 3%. 
One-way and multivariable probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed 
including variations in the specific vaccine used. Further testing of the 
model's parameters at extremes was used to identify favorable conditions for 
universal vaccination.
RESULTS: The incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year gained with 
universal vaccination was $13.9 million under the health sector perspective and 
$13.8 million under the societal perspective, each perspective was compared with 
a willingness-to-pay threshold of $150,000 per quality-adjusted life year. 
Multivariable probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that universal 
vaccination was not the preferred strategy for <$15 million per quality-adjusted 
life year. Under an extremely favorable model, a universal vaccination strategy 
became cost effective for vaccine series costing <$65.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that universal vaccination at college entry 
is not cost effective. The rarity of N. meningitidis serogroup B contributes to 
the lack of cost effectiveness for universal vaccination.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2018.09.020
PMCID: PMC6340776
PMID: 30573332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No other financial disclosures were reported by 
the authors. No conflicts of interest were reported by the authors.


277. JMIR Mhealth Uhealth. 2018 Dec 20;6(12):e11071. doi: 10.2196/11071.

Coping Strategies and Social Support in a Mobile Phone Chat App Designed to 
Support Smoking Cessation: Qualitative Analysis.

Granado-Font E(1)(2), Ferré-Grau C(2), Rey-Reñones C(#)(2)(3), Pons-Vigués 
M(4)(5)(6), Pujol Ribera E(4)(5)(6), Berenguera A(6), Barrera-Uriarte ML(7)(8), 
Basora J(8), Valverde-Trillo A(9), Duch J(10), Flores-Mateo G(8)(11).

Author information:
(1)Centre d'Atenció Primària Horts de Miró (Reus - 4), Gerència d'Àmbit 
d'Atenció Primària Camp de Tarragona, Institut Català de la Salut, Tarragona, 
Spain.
(2)Facultat d'Infermeria, Departament d'Infermeria, Universitat Rovira i 
Virgili, Tarragona, Spain.
(3)Institut Català de la Salut, Unitat de Suport a la Recerca Tarragona-Reus, 
Institut Universitari d'Investigació en Atenció Primària Jordi Gol (IDIAP Jordi 
Gol), Reus, Spain.
(4)Institut Universitari d'Investigació en Atenció Primària Jordi Gol (IDIAP 
Jordi Gol), Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Universitat de Girona, Girona, Spain.
(6)Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Bellaterra (Cerdanyola del Vallès), Spain.
(7)Centre d'Atenció Primària La Granja (Tarragona-2), Gerència d'Àmbit d'Atenció 
Primària Camp de Tarragona, Institut Català de la Salut, Torreforta (Tarragona), 
Spain.
(8)Unitat de Suport a la Recerca Tarragona-Reus, Institut Universitari en 
Atenció Primària Jordi Gol (IDIAP Jordi Gol), Reus, Spain.
(9)Departament de Salut, Barcelona, Spain.
(10)Departament d'Enginyeria Informàtica i Matemàtiques, Universitat Rovira i 
Virgili, Tarragona, Spain.
(11)Unitat d'Anàlisi i Qualitat, Xarxa Sanitària i Social Santa Tecla, 
Tarragona, Spain.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Smoking is one of the most significant factors contributing to low 
life expectancy, health inequalities, and illness at the worldwide scale. 
Smoking cessation attempts benefit from social support. Mobile phones have 
changed the way we communicate through the use of freely available 
message-oriented apps. Mobile app-based interventions for smoking cessation 
programs can provide interactive, supportive, and individually tailored 
interventions.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to identify emotions, coping strategies, beliefs, 
values, and cognitive evaluations of smokers who are in the process of quitting, 
and to analyze online social support provided through the analysis of messages 
posted to a chat function integrated into a mobile app.
METHODS: In this descriptive qualitative study, informants were smokers who 
participated in the chat of Tobbstop. The technique to generate information was 
documentary through messages collected from September 2014 through June 2016, 
specifically designed to support a smoking cessation intervention. A thematic 
content analysis of the messages applied 2 conceptual models: the Lazarus and 
Folkman model to assess participant's experiences and perceptions and the 
Cutrona model to evaluate online social support.
RESULTS: During the study period, 11,788 text messages were posted to the chat 
by 101 users. The most frequent messages offered information and emotional 
support, and all the basic emotions were reported in the chat. The 3 most 
frequent coping strategies identified were physical activity, different types of 
treatment such as nicotine replacement, and humor. Beliefs about quitting 
smoking included the inevitability of weight gain and the notion that not using 
any type of medications is better for smoking cessation. Health and family were 
the values more frequently described, followed by freedom. A smoke-free 
environment was perceived as important to successful smoking cessation. The 
social support group that was developed with the app offered mainly emotional 
and informational support.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis suggests that a chat integrated into a mobile app 
focused on supporting smoking cessation provides a useful tool for smokers who 
are in the process of quitting, by offering social support and a space to share 
concerns, information, or strategies.

©Esther Granado-Font, Carme Ferré-Grau, Cristina Rey-Reñones, Mariona 
Pons-Vigués, Enriqueta Pujol Ribera, Anna Berenguera, Maria Luisa 
Barrera-Uriarte, Josep Basora, Araceli Valverde-Trillo, Jordi Duch, Gemma 
Flores-Mateo. Originally published in JMIR Mhealth and Uhealth 
(http://mhealth.jmir.org), 20.12.2018.

DOI: 10.2196/11071
PMCID: PMC6320429
PMID: 30573445

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


278. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2019 Jan;30(1):7-12. doi: 10.1681/ASN.2018111128.

Improving Clinical Outcomes in the Era of Information Ubiquity.

Califf RM(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Duke Forge, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, North Carolina; 
robert.califf@duke.edu.
(2)Verily Life Sciences (Alphabet), South San Francisco, California; and 
robert.califf@duke.edu.
(3)Department of Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford, California 
robert.califf@duke.edu.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.2018111128
PMCID: PMC6317594
PMID: 30573637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Genet Med. 2019 Aug;21(8):1683-1690. doi: 10.1038/s41436-018-0399-4. Epub
2018  Dec 21.

Marfan syndrome: improved clinical history results in expanded natural history.

Pyeritz RE(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Medicine and Genetics, Perelman School of Medicine at the 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. reed.pyeritz@uphs.upenn.edu.

Life expectancy for a person with Marfan syndrome has essentially doubled over 
the past four decades. During this period, the clinical histories of the organs 
managed routinely have improved, and will continue to be. Prominent examples are 
the eyes, the heart and aorta, and some features of the skeletal system. 
Meanwhile, the natural histories of organ systems that have not been subjected 
to treatment need to be described. This is particularly important as due to the 
improved life span many symptoms and organ systems are only recently being 
recognized as being intrinsic to Marfan syndrome. Examples are the distal aorta 
and peripheral arteries, ventricular function, the central nervous system, sleep 
apnea, and adiposity. As a result, each person with Marfan syndrome will need to 
be evaluated and followed by more specialists than previously. Moreover, the 
coordinator of diagnostic testing and clinical referral must be aware of the 
expanded phenotype as people with Marfan syndrome age and the importance of 
life-long management of classical and novel features. The benefits of increased 
longevity and its consequences need to be addressed by investigators, 
health-care providers, and patients alike.

DOI: 10.1038/s41436-018-0399-4
PMID: 30573797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Aging Dis. 2018 Dec 4;9(6):1165-1184. doi: 10.14336/AD.2018.1026.
eCollection  2018 Dec.

Emerging Anti-Aging Strategies - Scientific Basis and Efficacy.

Shetty AK(1)(2), Kodali M(1)(2), Upadhya R(1)(2), Madhu LN(1).

Author information:
(1)1Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Department of Molecular and Cellular 
Medicine, Texas A&M University Health Science Center College of Medicine, 
College Station, Texas 77843, USA.
(2)2Olin E. Teague Veterans' Medical Center, Central Texas Veterans Health Care 
System, Temple, Texas 76504, USA.

The prevalence of age-related diseases is in an upward trend due to increased 
life expectancy in humans. Age-related conditions are among the leading causes 
of morbidity and death worldwide currently. Therefore, there is an urgent need 
to find apt interventions that slow down aging and reduce or postpone the 
incidence of debilitating age-related diseases. This review discusses the 
efficacy of emerging anti-aging approaches for maintaining better health in old 
age. There are many anti-aging strategies in development, which include 
procedures such as augmentation of autophagy, elimination of senescent cells, 
transfusion of plasma from young blood, intermittent fasting, enhancement of 
adult neurogenesis, physical exercise, antioxidant intake, and stem cell 
therapy. Multiple pre-clinical studies suggest that administration of autophagy 
enhancers, senolytic drugs, plasma from young blood, drugs that enhance 
neurogenesis and BDNF are promising approaches to sustain normal health during 
aging and also to postpone age-related neurodegenerative diseases such as 
Alzheimer's disease. Stem cell therapy has also shown promise for improving 
regeneration and function of the aged or Alzheimer's disease brain. Several of 
these approaches are awaiting critical appraisal in clinical trials to determine 
their long-term efficacy and possible adverse effects. On the other hand, 
procedures such as intermittent fasting, physical exercise, intake of 
antioxidants such as resveratrol and curcumin have shown considerable promise 
for improving function in aging, some of which are ready for large-scale 
clinical trials, as they are non-invasive, and seem to have minimal side 
effects. In summary, several approaches are at the forefront of becoming 
mainstream therapies for combating aging and postponing age-related diseases in 
the coming years.

DOI: 10.14336/AD.2018.1026
PMCID: PMC6284760
PMID: 30574426


281. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2019 Apr;85(4):690-703. doi: 10.1111/bcp.13844. Epub
2019  Feb 8.

Gabapentin and pregabalin to treat aggressivity in dementia: a systematic review 
and illustrative case report.

Supasitthumrong T(1)(2)(3), Bolea-Alamanac BM(2)(4), Asmer S(1), Woo VL(2)(5), 
Abdool PS(1)(2), Davies SJC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Mental Health Service, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, 
Toronto, Canada.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, King Chulalongkorn University, 
Bangkok, Thailand.
(4)General Systems Division, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, University 
of Toronto, Canada.
(5)Specialized Geriatrics Program, Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital, Edmonton, 
Alberta, Canada.

Comment in
    Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2021 Apr;87(4):1705-1707.

AIMS: The prevalence of dementia is rising as life expectancy increases 
globally. Behavioural and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD), including 
agitation and aggression, are common, presenting a challenge to clinicians and 
caregivers.
METHODS: Following PRISMA guidelines, we systematically reviewed evidence for 
gabapentin and pregabalin against BPSD symptoms of agitation or aggression in 
any dementia, using six databases (Pubmed, CINHL, PsychINFO, HealthStar, Embase, 
and Web of Science). Complementing this formal systematic review, an 
illustrative case of a patient with BPSD in mixed Alzheimer's/vascular dementia, 
who appeared to derive benefits in terms of symptom control and functioning from 
the introduction of gabapentin titrated up to 3600 mg day-1 alongside other 
interventions, is presented.
RESULTS: Twenty-four relevant articles were identified in the systematic review. 
There were no randomized trials. Fifteen papers were original case series/case 
reports of patients treated with these compounds, encompassing 87 patients given 
gabapentin and six given pregabalin. In 12 of 15 papers, drug treatment was 
effective in the majority of cases. The remaining nine papers were solely 
reviews, of which two were described as systematic but predated PRISMA 
guidelines. Preliminary low-grade evidence based on case series and case reviews 
suggests possible benefit of gabapentin and pregabalin in patients with BPSD in 
Alzheimer's disease. These benefits cannot be confirmed until well-powered 
randomized controlled trials are undertaken. Evidence in frontotemporal dementia 
is lacking.
CONCLUSION: Gabapentin and pregabalin could be considered for BPSD when 
medications having stronger evidence bases (risperidone, other antipsychotics, 
carbamazepine and citalopram) have been ineffective or present unacceptable 
risks of adverse outcomes.

© 2018 The British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bcp.13844
PMCID: PMC6422659
PMID: 30575088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no competing interests to declare. 
Within the past five years, S.J.C.D. has received grant support from the Centre 
for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH)/University of Toronto, NIHR (UK), 
Canadian Centre for Ageing and Brain Health Innovation, Canadian Consortium for 
Neurodegeneration in Aging (CCNA) and Medical‐Psychiatry Alliance.


282. J Appl Res Intellect Disabil. 2019 May;32(3):483-521. doi:
10.1111/jar.12559.  Epub 2018 Dec 21.

How to improve the quality of life of elderly people with intellectual 
disability: A systematic literature review of support strategies.

Schepens HRMM(1), Van Puyenbroeck J(2), Maes B(1).

Author information:
(1)Parenting and Special Education Research Unit, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(2)Odisee, Brussels, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: The increased life expectancy of people with intellectual disability 
intensifies the need for age-specific support. Research on effects of support 
strategies on quality of life (QoL) of these people remains scattered.
METHODS: A systematic search of peer-reviewed publications since 1995 was 
performed, with participants having intellectual disability and being aged 
≥50 years. Studies include experimental, observational and exploratory designs, 
analysing links between support strategies and QoL outcomes. The present authors 
adopted a narrative approach.
RESULTS: The present authors found 73 articles, assessed their quality, 
thematically categorized interventions into 12 themes, and listed them with 
their stated relationships to QoL.
CONCLUSIONS: The studies indicated the importance of funding, provision and 
organization of services/personnel, education, and cooperation among different 
support systems. The provision of good housing or activities, support when these 
provisions change, provision of (mental) health care, dementia care and 
end-of-life care, life story work, future planning and support for (I)ADLs are 
crucial.

© 2018 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jar.12559
PMID: 30575226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. N Engl J Med. 2018 Dec 13;379(24):2319-2329. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1807801.

Radical Prostatectomy or Watchful Waiting in Prostate Cancer - 29-Year 
Follow-up.

Bill-Axelson A(1), Holmberg L(1), Garmo H(1), Taari K(1), Busch C(1), Nordling 
S(1), Häggman M(1), Andersson SO(1), Andrén O(1), Steineck G(1), Adami HO(1), 
Johansson JE(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Surgical Sciences (A.B.-A., L.H., M.H.), Regional 
Cancer Center Uppsala Örebro (H.G.), and the Department of Pathology (C.B.), 
Uppsala University Hospital, Uppsala, the School of Health and Medical Sciences, 
Örebro University, and the Department of Urology, Örebro University Hospital, 
Örebro (S.-O.A., O.A., J.-E.J.), the Department of Medical Epidemiology and 
Biostatistics (H.-O.A.), Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, and the Division of 
Clinical Cancer Epidemiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, Gothenburg (G.S.) - all in 
Sweden; the School of Medicine, Division of Cancer Studies (L.H., H.G.), and the 
School of Cancer and Pharmaceutical Sciences (L.H.), King's College London, 
London; the Department of Urology, Helsinki University Hospital (K.T.), and the 
Department of Pathology, University of Helsinki (S.N.), Helsinki; the Department 
of Epidemiology, Harvard T.C. Chan School of Public Health, Boston (H.-O.A.); 
and the Clinical Effectiveness Research Group, Institute of Health and Society, 
University of Oslo, Oslo (H.-O.A.).

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2019 Jun;75(6):1036.
    N Engl J Med. 2019 Mar 14;380(11):1083-1084.
    N Engl J Med. 2019 Mar 14;380(11):1084.
    Eur Urol. 2019 Aug;76(2):253.
    Eur Urol. 2019 Jul;76(1):130-131.
    Ann Intern Med. 2019 Apr 16;170(8):JC44.
    J Urol. 2019 Aug;202(2):210-211.
    Strahlenther Onkol. 2019 Nov;195(11):1036-1038.
    Aktuelle Urol. 2019 Sep;50(5):464-466.
    Eur Urol. 2020 Sep;78(3):471.

BACKGROUND: Radical prostatectomy reduces mortality among men with clinically 
detected localized prostate cancer, but evidence from randomized trials with 
long-term follow-up is sparse.
METHODS: We randomly assigned 695 men with localized prostate cancer to watchful 
waiting or radical prostatectomy from October 1989 through February 1999 and 
collected follow-up data through 2017. Cumulative incidence and relative risks 
with 95% confidence intervals for death from any cause, death from prostate 
cancer, and metastasis were estimated in intention-to-treat and per-protocol 
analyses, and numbers of years of life gained were estimated. We evaluated the 
prognostic value of histopathological measures with a Cox proportional-hazards 
model.
RESULTS: By December 31, 2017, a total of 261 of the 347 men in the 
radical-prostatectomy group and 292 of the 348 men in the watchful-waiting group 
had died; 71 deaths in the radical-prostatectomy group and 110 in the 
watchful-waiting group were due to prostate cancer (relative risk, 0.55; 95% 
confidence interval [CI], 0.41 to 0.74; P<0.001; absolute difference in risk, 
11.7 percentage points; 95% CI, 5.2 to 18.2). The number needed to treat to 
avert one death from any cause was 8.4. At 23 years, a mean of 2.9 extra years 
of life were gained with radical prostatectomy. Among the men who underwent 
radical prostatectomy, extracapsular extension was associated with a risk of 
death from prostate cancer that was 5 times as high as that among men without 
extracapsular extension, and a Gleason score higher than 7 was associated with a 
risk that was 10 times as high as that with a score of 6 or lower (scores range 
from 2 to 10, with higher scores indicating more aggressive cancer).
CONCLUSIONS: Men with clinically detected, localized prostate cancer and a long 
life expectancy benefited from radical prostatectomy, with a mean of 2.9 years 
of life gained. A high Gleason score and the presence of extracapsular extension 
in the radical prostatectomy specimens were highly predictive of death from 
prostate cancer. (Funded by the Swedish Cancer Society and others.).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1807801
PMID: 30575473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. JAMA Pediatr. 2019 Feb 1;173(2):169-175. doi:
10.1001/jamapediatrics.2018.4275.

Analysis of Value-Based Costs of Undesignated School Stock Epinephrine Policies 
for Peanut Anaphylaxis.

Shaker MS(1)(2), Greenhawt MJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Section of Allergy and Immunology, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, 
Lebanon, New Hampshire.
(2)Dartmouth Geisel School of Medicine, Hanover, New Hampshire.
(3)Section of Allergy and Immunology, Food Challenge and Research Unit, 
Children's Hospital Colorado, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora.

Comment in
    JAMA Pediatr. 2019 Feb 1;173(2):130-132.

IMPORTANCE: Children experiencing anaphylaxis at school may lack access to a 
personal epinephrine device, prompting recent legislation permitting 
undesignated (eg, non-student specific) stock epinephrine autoinjector units at 
school. However, epinephrine device costs vary, and the cost-effectiveness of 
undesignated school stock epinephrine is uncharacterized to date.
OBJECTIVE: To define value-based strategies for undesignated school stock 
epinephrine programs.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Markov simulations of the Chicago Public 
Schools system were used over extended time horizons to model 2 school stock 
epinephrine autoinjector policies to provide access for at-risk students. The 
dates of the data used in the analysis were September 2017 to June 2018 (the 
2017-2018 school year).
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: This study compared the following 3 strategies: no 
school undesignated epinephrine supply, school undesignated supplemental 
epinephrine supply (supplemental model), and school undesignated universal 
epinephrine supply (universal model). The base-case model assumed a 10-fold 
reduced fatality risk with having undesignated stock epinephrine units available 
vs not having undesignated stock epinephrine units available. Costs of school 
stock epinephrine units available for acquisition by schools were evaluated from 
a societal perspective. Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and total 
epinephrine acquisition expenses were calculated.
RESULTS: Based on Markov simulations of the Chicago Public Schools system (371 
382 students), the cost was $107 816 (95% CI, $107 382-$108 250) for no school 
undesignated epinephrine supply compared with $108 160 (95% CI, 
$107 725-$108 595) for the supplemental model and $100 397 (95% CI, 
$99 979-$100 815) for the universal model. Undesignated stock epinephrine 
improved outcomes, with 26.869 (95% CI, 26.841-26.897) QALYs accrued as the 
model concluded compared with 26.867 (95% CI, 26.839-26.896) QALYs for the 
strategy without undesignated stock epinephrine. When comparing supplemental 
model stock epinephrine to the strategy without undesignated devices, the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was high at $268 811 per QALY in the 
base-case simulation. However, the cost of the supplemental model fell below 
$100 000 per QALY when the annual undesignated epinephrine acquisition costs did 
not exceed $338 per school (compared with stock epinephrine unavailability). The 
universal model dominated all others and was associated with significant cost 
savings ($7419 per student at risk who would otherwise be prescribed an 
individual school epinephrine supply).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Undesignated school stock epinephrine is 
cost-effective at device acquisition costs not exceeding $338 per school per 
year, although a universal model vs a supplemental model is associated with 
superior health and economic outcomes.

DOI: 10.1001/jamapediatrics.2018.4275
PMCID: PMC6439603
PMID: 30575857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Shaker 
reported having a family member who is CEO of Altrix Medical and reported being 
a member of the Joint Taskforce on Allergy Practice Parameters. Dr Greenhawt 
reported being an expert panel and coordinating committee member of the National 
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases–sponsored Guidelines for Peanut 
Allergy Prevention; reported serving as a consultant for the Canadian 
Transportation Agency, Thermo Fisher, Intrommune, and Aimmune Therapeutics; 
reported being a member of physician or medical advisory boards for Aimmune 
Therapeutics, DBV Technologies, Nutricia, Kaléo, Nestlé, and Monsanto; reported 
being a member of the scientific advisory council for the National Peanut Board; 
reported receiving honoraria for lectures from Thermo Fisher, Before Brands, 
multiple state allergy societies, the American College of Allergy, Asthma, and 
Immunology, and the European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology; 
reported being an associate editor for the Annals of Allergy, Asthma and 
Immunology; and reported being a member of the Joint Taskforce on Allergy 
Practice Parameters.


285. PLoS One. 2018 Dec 21;13(12):e0209407. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0209407. 
eCollection 2018.

The role of KDEL-tailed cysteine endopeptidases of Arabidopsis (AtCEP2 and 
AtCEP1) in root development.

Höwing T(1), Dann M(1), Müller B(2), Helm M(1), Scholz S(3), Schneitz K(3), 
Hammes UZ(2), Gietl C(1).

Author information:
(1)Lehrstuhl für Botanik, Center of Life and Food Sciences Weihenstephan, 
Technische Universitaet Muenchen, Freising, Germany.
(2)Cell Biology and Plant Biochemistry, Biochemie-Zentrum Regensburg, University 
of Regensburg, Regensburg, Germany.
(3)Plant Developmental Biology, Center of Life and Food Sciences Weihenstephan, 
Technische Universitaet Muenchen, Freising, Germany.

Plants encode a unique group of papain-type cysteine endopeptidases (CysEP) 
characterized by a C-terminal KDEL endoplasmic reticulum retention signal 
(KDEL-CysEP) and an unusually broad substrate specificity. The three Arabidopsis 
KDEL-CysEPs (AtCEP1, AtCEP2, and AtCEP3) are differentially expressed in 
vegetative and generative tissues undergoing programmed cell death (PCD). While 
KDEL-CysEPs have been shown to be implicated in the collapse of tissues during 
PCD, roles of these peptidases in processes other than PCD are unknown. Using 
mCherry-AtCEP2 and EGFP-AtCEP1 reporter proteins in wild type versus atcep2 or 
atcep1 mutant plants, we explored the participation of AtCEP in young root 
development. Loss of AtCEP2, but not AtCEP1 resulted in shorter primary roots 
due to a decrease in cell length in the lateral root (LR) cap, and impairs 
extension of primary root epidermis cells such as trichoblasts in the elongation 
zone. AtCEP2 was localized to root cap corpses adherent to epidermal cells in 
the rapid elongation zone. AtCEP1 and AtCEP2 are expressed in root epidermis 
cells that are separated for LR emergence. Loss of AtCEP1 or AtCEP2 caused 
delayed emergence of LR primordia. KDEL-CysEPs might be involved in 
developmental tissue remodeling by supporting cell wall elongation and cell 
separation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0209407
PMCID: PMC6303060
PMID: 30576358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


286. Endocr Rev. 2019 Apr 1;40(2):575-601. doi: 10.1210/er.2018-00216.

Growth Hormone Deficiency: Health and Longevity.

Aguiar-Oliveira MH(1), Bartke A(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Federal University of Sergipe, Aracaju, Sergipe, 
Brazil.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Southern Illinois University School of 
Medicine, Springfield, Illinois.

The important role of GH in the control of mammalian longevity was first deduced 
from extended longevity of mice with genetic GH deficiency (GHD) or GH 
resistance. Mice with isolated GHD (IGHD) due to GHRH or GHRH receptor 
mutations, combined deficiency of GH, prolactin, and TSH, or global deletion of 
GH receptors live longer than do their normal siblings. They also exhibit 
multiple features of delayed and/or slower aging, accompanied by extension of 
healthspan. The unexpected, remarkable longevity benefit of severe endocrine 
defects in these animals presumably represents evolutionarily conserved 
trade-offs among aging, growth, maturation, fecundity, and the underlying 
anabolic processes. Importantly, the negative association of GH signaling with 
longevity extends to other mammalian species, apparently including humans. Data 
obtained in humans with IGHD type 1B, owing to a mutation of the GHRH receptor 
gene, in the Itabaianinha County, Brazil, provide a unique opportunity to study 
the impact of severe reduction in GH signaling on age-related characteristics, 
health, and functionality. Individuals with IGHD are characterized by 
proportional short stature, doll facies, high-pitched voices, and central 
obesity. They have delayed puberty but are fertile and generally healthy. 
Moreover, these IGHD individuals are partially protected from cancer and some of 
the common effects of aging and can attain extreme longevity, 103 years of age 
in one case. We think that low, but detectable, residual GH secretion combined 
with life-long reduction of circulating IGF-1 and with some tissue levels of 
IGF-1 and/or IGF-2 preserved may account for the normal longevity and apparent 
extension of healthspan in these individuals.

Copyright © 2019 Endocrine Society.

DOI: 10.1210/er.2018-00216
PMCID: PMC6416709
PMID: 30576428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Int J Qual Health Care. 2019 Nov 30;31(9):676-681. doi:
10.1093/intqhc/mzy240.

Cost utility of fractional flow reserve-guided percutaneous coronary 
intervention in multivessel coronary artery disease in Brazil.

Stella SF(1)(2), Polanczyk CA(1)(2)(3)(4), Arvandi M(5), Siebert U(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Science and Technology for Health Technology Assessment 
(IATS), CNPq, 2350 Ramiro Barcelos, Room 21507, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.
(2)Graduate Program in Cardiology and Cardiovascular Sciences, School of 
Medicine, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, 2400 Ramiro Barcelos, 2nd 
Floor, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, Universidade Federal do 
Rio Grande do Sul, 2400 Ramiro Barcelos, 2nd Floor, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.
(4)Cardiology Division, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, 2350 Ramiro 
Barcelos, 2nd Floor, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.
(5)Institute of Public Health, Medical Decision Making and Health Technology 
Assessment, Department of Public Health, Health Services Research and Health 
Technology Assessment, UMIT-University for Health Sciences, Medical Informatics 
and Technology, Eduard-Wallnoefer-Zentrum 1, Hall i.T., Austria.
(6)Program on Cardiovascular Research, Institute for Technology Assessment and 
Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
101 Merrimac St., 10th Floor, Boston, MA, USA.
(7)Center for Health Decision Science, Department of Health Policy and 
Management, Harvard Chan School of Public Health, 718 Huntington Avenue, 2nd 
Floor, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The fractional flow reserve (FFR) versus angiography for multivessel 
evaluation (FAME) study has demonstrated that FFR substantially reduces major 
adverse cardiac events and resource utilization in coronary artery disease (CAD) 
patients. We aimed to assess the cost utility of FFR in percutaneous coronary 
interventions (PCI) from the perspective of the Brazilian Public Health System 
(SUS).
DESIGN: Patient-level cost-utility analysis along the FAME study.
PARTICIPANTS: Multivessel coronary artery disease patients.
INTERVENTION: PCI, either guided by FFR or by angiography alone.
SETTING: The procedure costs were based on the mean amount of unitary resource 
utilization multiplied by the costs from SUS reimbursement list. The utilities 
were derived using Brazilian weights for time trade-off European Quality of 
Life-5 Dimensions. The World Health Organization recommendation based on gross 
domestic product per capita (international dollars [I$] 35 876/quality-adjusted 
life year [QALY]) was used as willingness-to-pay threshold.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: We determined the incremental cost-utility ratio (ICUR) in 
I$ per QALY gained during the 1-year time horizon.
RESULTS: One-year costs were I$ 8931 for the angiography-guided PCI and I$ 8968 
for the FFR-guided PCI, resulting in an incremental cost of I$ 37. Effectiveness 
during 1 year was 0.798 QALYs for angiography-guided PCI and 0.811 for 
FFR-guided PCI, resulting in an incremental effectiveness of 0.013 QALYs. The 
base-case ICUR of FFR versus angiography-guided PCI was 2780 I$/QALY. 
Cost-saving results are achieved with a FFR price reduction of at least 2.2%.
CONCLUSIONS: Developing countries should give attention to strategies proven to 
be cost-effective in other health systems. In our analysis, FFR-guided PCI is 
very cost-effective in the Brazilian SUS and with a minimal price reduction of 
the device, FFR could be cost saving.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press in association with 
the International Society for Quality in Health Care. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/intqhc/mzy240
PMID: 30576452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Swiss Med Wkly. 2018 Dec 21;148:w14702. doi: 10.4414/smw.2018.14702.
eCollection  2018 Dec 17.

Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension.

Opitz I(1), Ulrich S(1).

Author information:
(1)CTEPH Programme University Hospital Zurich, Switzerland.

Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) is a potentially fatal 
disease, which may occur as a rare complication after acute pulmonary embolism, 
although the exact epidemiology of CTEPH is unknown. The mechanisms involved in 
nonresolution of thrombotic material and scarring of large and/or small 
pulmonary arteries are unknown; some risk factors have been identified. To date, 
CTEPH is still underdiagnosed and undertreated. The cardinal symptom of CTEPH is 
dyspnoea on exertion, but diagnosis is challenging owing to nonspecific 
symptoms. Right heart catheterisation is mandatory for the diagnosis of 
pulmonary hypertension, followed by several imaging methods including besides 
ventilation/perfusion scan, computed tomography pulmonary angiography and 
conventional angiography. Operability assessment by a multidisciplinary team is 
crucial for the management in all CTEPH patients, as pulmonary endarterectomy 
(PEA) remains the only curative treatment of choice. PEA leads to substantial 
improvement of haemodynamics, symptoms, and life expectancy enabling many 
patients to lead unrestricted lives under sole anticoagulation therapy. For 
inoperable patients or those with disease not amenable to surgery, medical 
therapy or balloon angioplasty are emerging treatment options. Owing to the 
complexity of CTEPH, the diagnosis and treatment of CTEPH patients is reserved 
exclusively to experienced CTEPH centres.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2018.14702
PMID: 30576568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Bioorg Chem. 2019 Mar;84:444-455. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2018.11.040. Epub
2018  Nov 26.

Antiproliferative 3-deoxysphingomyelin analogs: Design, synthesis, biological 
evaluation and molecular docking of pyrrolidine-based 3-deoxysphingomyelin 
analogs as anticancer agents.

Hassan AHE(1), Park HR(2), Yoon YM(2), Kim HI(2), Yoo SY(2), Lee KW(2), Lee 
YS(3).

Author information:
(1)Medicinal Chemistry Laboratory, Department of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, 
Kyung Hee University, Seoul 02447, Republic of Korea; Department of Medicinal 
Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura University, Mansoura 35516, Egypt.
(2)Department of Life and Nanopharmaceutical Science, Kyung Hee University, 
Kyung Hee University, Seoul 02447, Republic of Korea.
(3)Medicinal Chemistry Laboratory, Department of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, 
Kyung Hee University, Seoul 02447, Republic of Korea; Department of Life and 
Nanopharmaceutical Science, Kyung Hee University, Kyung Hee University, Seoul 
02447, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: kyslee@khu.ac.kr.

Sphingomyelins and glycerophospholipids are structurally related phospholipids. 
Nevertheless, glycerophospholipids analogs are known as antitumor agents while 
sphingomyelin analogs were reported as cytoprotective agents. Herein, we have 
addressed the development of 3-deoxysphingomyelin analogs as cytotoxic agents 
possessing modified sphingobases. Thus, pyrrolidine-based 3-deoxysphingomyelin 
analogs were synthesized and evaluated against a panel of cell lines 
representing four major types of cancers. Compounds 3d, 4d and 6d elicited 
better GI50 values than the FDA approved drug miltefosine. Investigation of 
their impact on Akt phosphorylation as a possible mechanism for the 
antiproliferative activity of this class of compounds revealed that these 
compounds might elicit a concentration-dependent mechanism via inhibition of Akt 
phosphorylation at the lower concentration. Molecular docking predicted their 
binding modes to Akt to involve polar head binding to the Pleckstrin homology 
domain and hydrophobic tail extension into a hydrophobic pocket connecting the 
Pleckstrin homology domain and the kinase domain. As a whole, the described work 
suggests compounds 3d, 4d and 6d as promising pyrrolidine-based 
3-deoxysphingomyelin analogs for development of novel cancer therapies.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2018.11.040
PMID: 30576908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Transplant Proc. 2018 Dec;50(10):3121-3127. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2018.06.024. Epub 2018 Jun 26.

A Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Organ Preservation Methods for Deceased Donor 
Kidneys at High Risk for Delayed Graft Function in Brazil.

Tedesco Silva H Jr(1), Evans RW(2), Gavaghan MB(3), Vazquez VC(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Hospital do Rim-UNIFESP, Sao Paulo, Brazil. 
Electronic address: heliotedesco@medfarm.com.br.
(2)The United Network for the Recruitment of Transplantation Professionals, LLC, 
Rochester, MN.
(3)GfK, Waltham, MA.

The clinical benefit of machine perfusion (MP) was recently assessed in a 1-year 
Brazilian multicenter prospective randomized trial, that showed that the use of 
MP was associated with a reduced incidence of delayed graft function (DGF) 
compared to static cold storage (SCS) in kidney transplant recipients (45% vs 
61%). The objective of the present analysis is to consider the 
cost-effectiveness of MP relative to SCS based on clinical data from this 
Brazilian cohort. A decision tree model was constructed to simulate a population 
of 1000 kidney transplant recipients based on data derived from this Brazilian 
multicenter clinical trial. The model accounts for different health state 
utilities to estimate the cost-effectiveness of deceased donor kidney 
transplantation in Brazil comparing 2 kidney preservation methods: MP and SCS. 
The model accounts for 3 possible graft outcomes at 1 year post-transplantation: 
success (an immediate functioning kidney), failure (primary nonfunction 
requiring a return to dialysis), or DGF 1 year post-transplant. MP provided 612 
total quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) (0.61 QALYs per patient) as compared 
to SCS (553 total QALYs, 0.55 QALYs per patient). MP was cost effective relative 
to SCS (US$22,117/QALY, R$70,606/QALY). The use of MP also resulted in more 
functioning grafts than SCS (821 vs 787), leading to a cost per functioning 
graft of US$38,033 (R$121,417). In conclusion, this analysis indicates that, 
despite the initial added cost associated with MP, the use of MP results in more 
functioning grafts (821 vs 787) and higher patient quality of life relative to 
SCS in Brazil.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2018.06.024
PMID: 30577177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Transplant Proc. 2018 Dec;50(10):3361-3366. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2018.08.002. Epub 2018 Aug 10.

Clinical and Health Care Utilization Outcomes of Kidney Transplantation in 
HIV-Positive Recipients: A Nationwide Analysis From 2008-2013.

Apewokin S(1), Madan R(2), Restrepo A(3), Hemmige VS(3), Arora S(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Electronic address: senukobla@yahoo.com.
(2)Division of Infectious Diseases, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio.
(3)Division of Infectious Diseases, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.
(4)Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai St Luke Roosevelt, New York, New York.

BACKGROUND: Kidney transplantation (KTxp) provides dialysis independence, 
improved quality of life, and prolonged life expectancy for patients with 
end-stage renal disease. Before and during the early antiretroviral therapy era, 
KTxp was not a consideration for patients with end-stage renal disease who were 
HIV-positive (HIV+ve) given their short life expectancy and prevailing organ 
procurement constraints. Recent advancements in antiretroviral therapy and HIV 
care have overhauled this paradigm and KTxp has now been performed for several 
years, however, pragmatic studies documenting outcomes are lacking. We herein 
document the effectiveness of KTxp in patients who are HIV+ve by reporting 
clinical and health care utilization outcomes in the United States.
