Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2213-8587(18)30307-3
PMID: 30558909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Clin Ther. 2019 Jan;41(1):78-91. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2018.11.008. Epub
2018  Dec 14.

Radiofrequency Catheter Ablation Versus Cryoballoon Ablation in the Treatment of 
Paroxysmal Atrial Fibrillation: A Cost-effectiveness Analysis in China.

Sun XR(1), He SN(2), Lin ZY(3), Zhang L(3), Wang YJ(1), Zeng LJ(1), Shi L(1), 
Xuan JW(4), Tian Y(1), Yang XC(1), Liu XP(5).

Author information:
(1)Center for Atrial Fibrillation, Heart Center, Beijing Chao-Yang Hospital, 
Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Beijing Lu-He Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China.
(3)Shanghai Centennial Scientific Co, Ltd, Shanghai, China.
(4)Health Economic Research Institute, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(5)Center for Atrial Fibrillation, Heart Center, Beijing Chao-Yang Hospital, 
Capital Medical University, Beijing, China. Electronic address: 
xpliu71@vip.sina.com.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
radiofrequency catheter ablation (RFCA) compared with cryoballoon (CB) ablation 
in the treatment of patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF) from the 
payer's perspective in China.
METHODS: We constructed a cohort model, combining a 12-month decision-tree model 
with a lifetime Markov state-transition model, in a hypothetical cohort of 
patients with drug-refractory PAF managed with either RFCA or CB ablation, to 
compare the cost-effectiveness of the 2 procedures. Data related to clinical 
outcomes and costs in this model were obtained from a retrospective 12-month 
follow-up study in patients in China and from related literature. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) over a 10-year time period was 
calculated and compared against the willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold. We used 
a 1-way sensitivity analysis and a probabilistic sensitivity analysis (PSA) to 
access the structural uncertainty and the parameter uncertainty, respectively.
FINDINGS: Over a 10-year time horizon, the total costs per patient of RFCA and 
CB ablation were ¥98,164.04 (US $15,339.57; €13,058.94) and ¥107,542.37 
($16,805.07; €14,306.55), respectively, and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
gained were 5.47 and 5.43, respectively. The ICER ratio was -¥224,365.01 
(-$35,060.32; -€29,847.68) per QALY, indicating that RFCA is associated with 
greater QALYs and lower costs than CB ablation. The 1-way sensitivity analysis 
demonstrated that the model results were most sensitive to the odds ratio of the 
atrial fibrillation recurrence within 12 months in the RFCA group versus the CB 
ablation group, the cost of RFCA, and the perioperative stroke risk with RFCA. 
According to the results of the PSA, RFCA was associated with a high probability 
of being cost-effective (99.48%) compared with CB ablation at a WTP threshold of 
¥161,940 ($25,305.50; €21,543.17) per QALY.
IMPLICATIONS: Our analysis indicates that RFCA is cost-saving compared with CB 
ablation in the treatment of patients with PAF in China, based on better QALYs 
and lower costs over a 10-year time horizon, from the payer's perspective.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2018.11.008
PMID: 30559005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Evid Based Ment Health. 2019 Feb;22(1):17-22. doi:
10.1136/ebmental-2018-300034.  Epub 2018 Dec 17.

Digital technology for health promotion: opportunities to address excess 
mortality in persons living with severe mental disorders.

Naslund JA(1), Aschbrenner KA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health and Social Medicine, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover, 
New Hampshire, USA.

Persons with severe mental disorders (SMDs) experience dramatically reduced life 
expectancy compared with the general population. We consider the role of digital 
technologies for addressing this serious public health concern. In this clinical 
review, we apply the multilevel risk model recently introduced by the WHO to 
conceptualise how digital technology can support efforts to reduce excess 
mortality risk at the individual, health system and social determinants of 
health levels. In particular, digital technologies show promise for targeting 
preventable physical health conditions in persons with SMDs. However, evidence 
on the use of these technologies for addressing early mortality risk factors is 
lacking. At the individual level, digital interventions show promise for 
managing mental health symptoms, promoting healthy lifestyle behaviours and 
targeting substance use concerns. At the health system level, digital 
interventions can support care coordination, clinician training, screening and 
monitoring health indices and shared decision-making. At the social determinants 
of health level, digital interventions can facilitate opportunities to engage 
peers for illness self-management and health promotion and for delivering and/or 
augmenting supported employment programmes. The time is ripe to capitalise on 
early evidence to support future development, testing and delivery of effective 
digital efforts targeting risk factors that contribute to shorter life 
expectancy in persons with SMDs. Key challenges and opportunities for future 
research include increasing user engagement, involving users during development 
and testing of digital interventions, carefully considering risks/harms and 
rigorously evaluating effectiveness and costs to support the scalability and 
sustainability of promising digital approaches.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2019. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/ebmental-2018-300034
PMCID: PMC6359972
PMID: 30559332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


234. J Health Pollut. 2018 Dec 6;8(20):181203. doi:
10.5696/2156-9614-8.20.181203.  eCollection 2018 Dec.

Rice Farmers' Knowledge of the Risks of Pesticide Use in Bangladesh.

Rahaman MM(1)(2), Islam KS(2), Jahan M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agriculture, Pakutia College, Ghatail, Tangail, Bangladesh.
(2)Department of Entomology, Faculty of Agriculture, Bangladesh Agricultural 
University, Mymensingh, Bangladesh.

BACKGROUND: Population growth has led to the need to increase global food 
production. Pesticides are an important tool used in efforts to control insect 
pests. About 20-30% of agricultural produce is lost annually due to insect 
pests, diseases, weeds and rodents. While pesticides are effective against pest 
populations, if used injudiciously, they may pose health hazards to humans, 
domestic animals, natural enemies of crop pests and other forms of life through 
unwanted contamination of food, feed, water bodies and the environment.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of the present study was to examine farmers' level of 
knowledge and awareness of environmental pollution due to unsafe use of 
pesticides for controlling rice pests and to explore ways of reducing their 
usage.
METHODS: The research population consisted of 120 rice farmers: 40 farmers 
randomly selected from each of the three rice growing districts of Bangladesh; 
Mymensingh, Tangail and Jamalpur. Data was collected through group discussions, 
direct observations and personal interviews during March 2013 to May 2014.
RESULTS: Farmers mainly sought advice on pesticide use from pesticide dealers or 
retailers and a very few farmers contacted government extension workers for this 
purpose. Most of the farmers had an understanding of natural enemies of rice 
pests and that the application of synthetic insecticides in the field can reduce 
their population. A few farmers followed integrated pest management (IPM) 
practices with little understanding of the adverse effects of insecticides on 
the environment and ecosystem. The majority of farmers understood the harmful 
effects of pesticides on health of human and animals, beneficial species, fish, 
insect resistance, soil and food. It was also found that education on pest 
management, information through television, more contact with extension 
personnel and farmers' awareness of IPM were critical factors for improving rice 
farmers' understanding of the ecological hazards caused by overuse of 
pesticides. Most of the farmers suggested that timely removal of weeds, 
appropriate timing for pesticide application, balanced doses of fertilizers, 
pest monitoring, correct dose of appropriate pesticides, pest tolerant 
varieties, increasing technical knowledge and skills and creating social 
awareness of environmental pollution among farmers were necessary to reduce the 
quantity of pesticides and minimize environmental hazards.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study identified a need to intensify farmers' awareness 
and knowledge of integrated pest management and environmental pollution through 
extension organizations which could help promote sustainable agricultural 
development and improve the currently endangered bio-diversity of Bangladesh.
PARTICIPANT CONSENT: Obtained.
ETHICAL APPROVAL: This study was approved by the PhD Supervisory Committee 
assigned by the Department of Entomology of Bangladesh Agricultural University.
COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare no competing financial interests.

DOI: 10.5696/2156-9614-8.20.181203
PMCID: PMC6285676
PMID: 30560002


235. J Comorb. 2018 Dec 10;8(1):2235042X18816588. doi: 10.1177/2235042X18816588. 
eCollection 2018 Jan-Dec.

Multimorbidity patterns and 5-year overall mortality: Results from a claims 
data-based observational study.

Schäfer I(1), Kaduszkiewicz H(2), Nguyen TS(3), van den Bussche H(1), Scherer 
M(1), Schön G(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Medical Care, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(2)Institute of General Practice, Medical Faculty, University of Kiel, Kiel, 
Germany.
(3)Institute of General Practice, Goethe University Frankfurt am Main, Frankfurt 
am Main, Germany.
(4)Department of Medical Biometry and Epidemiology, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Multimorbidity is prevalent and related to adverse outcomes. The 
effect on mortality is disputed, possibly because studies show differences in 
the diseases which operationalize multimorbidity. The aim of this study is to 
analyze the effects of three multimorbidity patterns (representing subgroups of 
diseases) on mortality.
METHODS: We conducted a longitudinal observational study based on insurance 
claims data of ambulatory care from 2005 to 2009. Analyses are based on 46 
chronic conditions with a prevalence ≥1%. We included 52,217 females and 71,007 
males aged 65+ and insured by the Gmünder ErsatzKasse throughout 2004. Our 
outcome was 5-year overall mortality documented as exact time of death. We 
calculated hazard ratios by Cox regression analyses with time-dependent 
covariates. Three statistical models were analyzed: (a) the individual diseases, 
(b) the number of diseases in multimorbidity patterns, and (c) a count of all 
diseases, all calculated separately for genders and adjusted for age.
RESULTS: During the study period, 12,473 males (17.6%) and 7,457 females (14.3%) 
died. The general effect of multimorbidity on mortality was small (females: 
1.02, 1.01-1.02; males: 1.04, 1.03-1.04). The number of neuropsychiatric 
disorders was related to higher mortality (1.33, 1.30-1.36; 1.46, 1.43-1.50). 
Cardiovascular and metabolic disorders had inconsistent effects (0.99, 
0.97-1.01; 1.08, 1.07-1.09). Psychiatric, psychosomatic, and pain-related 
disorders were related to higher life expectancy (0.87, 0.86-0.89; 0.88, 
0.87-0.90).
CONCLUSIONS: Chronic diseases have heterogeneous effects on mortality and 
generalized measures of multimorbidity reflect and even out the effects of the 
single diseases. In multimorbidity studies, a careful selection of diseases is 
therefore important.

DOI: 10.1177/2235042X18816588
PMCID: PMC6291890
PMID: 30560093

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


236. Gerontol Geriatr Med. 2018 Dec 11;4:2333721418817396. doi: 
10.1177/2333721418817396. eCollection 2018 Jan-Dec.

The Giant Geriatric Syndromes Are Intensified by Diabetic Complications.

Lewandowicz A(1), Skowronek P(2)(3), Maksymiuk-Kłos A(4), Piątkiewicz P(4).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Geriatrics, Rheumatology and Rehabilitation, Warsaw, 
Poland.
(2)Regional Hospital WSZZ Kielce, Poland.
(3)Kochanowski University, Kielce, Poland.
(4)Medical University of Warsaw, Poland.

By 2015, diabetes has affected more than 415 million people over the world. It 
is anticipated that 640 million adults will suffer from diabetes in 2040. The 
elongation of the life expectancy, as the result of better general health care, 
extends also the time when diabetic complications may develop together with 
other senility-specific problems. The Giant Geriatric Syndromes (Geriatric 
Giants) have been qualified by the original Nascher's criteria defined more than 
100 years ago, but they are becoming more and more relevant in connection with 
the aging of societies. The criteria comprise the older age, commonness of the 
health problem, multifactorial etiology, functional or cognitive impairment, 
worsened outcome, and increased morbidity and mortality. We described the impact 
of diabetes on Geriatric Giants including cognitive dysfunction, depression, 
malnutrition, incontinence, falls and fractures, chronic pain, and the loss of 
senses. The association of diabetes with Geriatric Giants reveals as a vicious 
circle with the background of neurovascular complications. However, diabetes 
influence on the incidence of cancer in elderly was also discussed, since 
neoplastic diseases associate with Geriatric Giants, for example, chronic pain 
and depression. The knowledge about these aspects of functional decline in 
geriatric population is crucial to improve patient care.

DOI: 10.1177/2333721418817396
PMCID: PMC6291866
PMID: 30560147

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


237. Br J Nutr. 2018 Dec 18:1-10. doi: 10.1017/S0007114518003483. Online ahead of
 print.

Associations of evolutionary-concordance diet, Mediterranean diet and 
evolutionary-concordance lifestyle pattern scores with all-cause and 
cause-specific mortality.

Cheng E(1), Um CY(1), Prizment A(2), Lazovich D(2), Bostick RM(1).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Epidemiology,Emory University Rollins School of Public 
Health,Atlanta,GA,USA.
(2)2Division of Epidemiology and Community Health,School of Public 
Health,University of Minnesota,Minneapolis,MN,USA.

Various individual diet and lifestyle factors are associated with mortality. 
Investigating these factors collectively may help clarify whether dietary and 
lifestyle patterns contribute to life expectancy. We investigated the 
association of previously described evolutionary-concordance and Mediterranean 
diet pattern scores and a novel evolutionary-concordance lifestyle pattern score 
with all-cause and cause-specific mortality in the prospective Iowa Women's 
Health Study (1986-2012). We created the diet pattern scores from Willett FFQ 
responses, and the lifestyle pattern score from self-reported physical activity, 
BMI and smoking status, and assessed their associations with mortality, using 
multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression. Of the 35 221 55- to 
69-year-old cancer-free women at baseline, 18 687 died during follow-up. The 
adjusted hazard ratios (HR) and 95 % CI for all-cause, all CVD, and all-cancer 
mortality among participants in the highest relative to the lowest quintile of 
the evolutionary-concordance lifestyle score were, respectively, 0·52 (95 % CI 
0·50, 0·55), 0·53 (95 % CI 0·49, 0·57) and 0·51 (95 % CI 0·46, 0·57). The 
corresponding findings for the Mediterranean diet score were HR 0·85 (95 % CI 
0·82, 0·90), 0·83 (95 % CI 0·76, 0·90) and 0·93 (95 % CI 0·84, 1·03), and for 
the evolutionary-concordance diet score they were close to null and not 
statistically significant. The lowest estimated risk was among those in the 
highest joint quintile of the lifestyle score and either diet score (both 
Pinteraction &lt;0·01). Our findings suggest that (1) a more Mediterranean-like 
diet pattern and (2) a more evolutionary-concordant lifestyle pattern, alone and 
in interaction with a more evolutionary-concordant or Mediterranean diet 
pattern, may be inversely associated with mortality.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114518003483
PMCID: PMC6581641
PMID: 30560736

Conflict of interest statement: None of the authors has any conflicts of 
interest to declare.


238. Sci Rep. 2018 Dec 18;8(1):17938. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-36041-8.

Characterizing early drug resistance-related events using geometric ensembles 
from HIV protease dynamics.

Sheik Amamuddy O(1), Bishop NT(2), Tastan Bishop Ö(3).

Author information:
(1)Research Unit in Bioinformatics (RUBi), Department of Biochemistry and 
Microbiology, Rhodes University, Grahamstown, 6140, South Africa.
(2)Department of Mathematics (Pure & Applied), Rhodes University, Grahamstown, 
6140, South Africa.
(3)Research Unit in Bioinformatics (RUBi), Department of Biochemistry and 
Microbiology, Rhodes University, Grahamstown, 6140, South Africa. 
o.tastanbishop@ru.ac.za.

The use of antiretrovirals (ARVs) has drastically improved the life quality and 
expectancy of HIV patients since their introduction in health care. Several 
millions are still afflicted worldwide by HIV and ARV resistance is a constant 
concern for both healthcare practitioners and patients, as while treatment 
options are finite, the virus constantly adapts via complex mutation patterns to 
select for resistant strains under the pressure of drug treatment. The HIV 
protease is a crucial enzyme for viral maturation and has been a game changing 
drug target since the first application. Due to similarities in protease 
inhibitor designs, drug cross-resistance is not uncommon across ARVs of the same 
class. It is known that resistance against protease inhibitors is associated 
with a wider active site, but results from our large scale molecular dynamics 
simulations combined with statistical tests and network analysis further show, 
for the first time, that there are regions of local expansions and compactions 
associated with high levels of resistance conserved across eight different 
protease inhibitors visible in their complexed form within closed receptor 
conformations. The observed conserved expansion sites may provide an alternative 
drug-targeting site. Further, the method developed here is novel, supplementary 
to methods of variation analysis at sequence level, and should be applicable in 
analysing the structural consequences of mutations in other contexts using 
molecular ensembles.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-36041-8
PMCID: PMC6298995
PMID: 30560871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


239. J Med Econ. 2019 Apr;22(4):297-305. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2018.1560750. Epub
 2019 Jan 8.

Fingolimod versus natalizumab in patients with relapsing remitting multiple 
sclerosis: a cost-effectiveness and cost-utility study in Iran.

Rezaee M(1)(2), Izadi S(3), Keshavarz K(1)(4), Borhanihaghighi A(3), Ravangard 
R(4).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Health Economics, School of Management and Medical 
Information Sciences , Shiraz University of Medical Sciences , Shiraz , Iran.
(2)b Student Research Committee, School of Management and Medical Information 
Sciences , Shiraz University of Medical Sciences , Shiraz , Iran.
(3)c Clinical Neurology Research Center , Medical School, Shiraz University of 
Medical Sciences , Shiraz , Iran.
(4)d Health Human Resources Research Center, School of Management and Medical 
Information Sciences , Shiraz University of Medical Sciences , Shiraz , Iran.

AIMS: Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, autoimmune, and inflammatory 
disease. If the first-line medicines are not effective enough, specialists will 
prescribe second-line medicines, such as natalizumab and fingolimod. This study 
aimed to compare the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of fingolimod with 
those of natalizumab in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis 
(RRMS) in Iran, Fars province in 2016.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study was a cost-effectiveness and cost-utility 
study in which a Markov model was used. The study used the census method to 
evaluate 81 patients with MS in Iran, Fars province who were being treated with 
fingolimod and natalizumab. In this study, costs were collected from the 
societal perspective, and the outcomes were the mean of relapse avoided rate and 
QALY. The cost data collection form, Kurtzke Expanded Disability Status Scale, 
and EQ-5D-3L questionnaire were used to collect the required data.
RESULTS: The results showed that, compared to natalizumab, patients who used 
fingolimod had decreased costs (58,087 vs 201,707), increased QALYs (8.09 vs 
7.37), and a better relapse avoided rate (6.27 vs 5.83) per patient over the 
lifetime. The results of the sensitivity analysis showed that the results of the 
study were robust. Also, the results of the scatter plots showed that fingolimod 
was more cost-effective based on the QALY and relapse avoided rate in 62% and 
56%, respectively, of the simulations for the thresholds below $15,657 for the 
studied patients.
CONCLUSIONS: According to the results of this study, the cost-effectiveness and 
cost-utility of fingolimod were higher than those of natalizumab. Therefore, it 
is recommended that treatment with fingolimod be the first priority of 
second-line treatment for MS patients, and policy-makers and health managers are 
encouraged to make efforts in order to increase insurance coverage and reduce 
the out-of-pocket payments of these patients.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2018.1560750
PMID: 30561242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. J Econ Entomol. 2019 Mar 21;112(2):932-938. doi: 10.1093/jee/toy384.

Life Table Parameters and Oviposition Preference of Plutella xylostella 
(Lepidoptera: Plutellidae) on Six Brassicaceous Crop Plants.

Jafary-Jahed M(1), Razmjou J(1), Nouri-Ganbalani G(1), Naseri B(1), Hassanpour 
M(1), Leppla NC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture and Natural Resources, 
University of Mohaghegh Ardabili, Ardabil, Iran.
(2)Entomology and Nematology Department, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL.

The oviposition preferences and larval development of the diamondback moth, 
Plutella xylostella (L.), were evaluated in the laboratory on canola, Brassica 
napus L. and five Brassica oleracea L. cultivars: broccoli, cauliflower, 
kohlrabi, red cabbage, and white cabbage. Adults from larvae fed on cauliflower 
and canola lived longer than those fed other cultivars, whereas the oviposition 
period was longest for cauliflower (5.54 d) and shortest for females reared on 
kohlrabi (2.68 d). The oviposition period for canola and broccoli was relatively 
long compared with white cabbage, red cabbage, and kohlrabi. Significantly more 
eggs were oviposited on cauliflower (163.71 eggs per female) than on canola 
(139.23 eggs per female) and the other B. oleracea cultivars, although broccoli 
also was preferred over white cabbage, red cabbage, and kohlrabi. The 
differences in total development times of immature stages on Brassica plants 
tested were significant, being shortest on cauliflower (17.60 d) and longest on 
kohlrabi (21.12 d). The moths reared on cauliflower and Kohlrabi, respectively, 
had the highest (65.46 offspring per individual) and lowest (12.71 offspring per 
individual) R0 values. Also, moths reared on cauliflower had significantly 
higher r value (0.200 d-1). The lowest r value was obtained when individuals fed 
on Kohlrabi (0.105 d-1). In free-choice situation, oviposition on canola and 
cauliflower was similar, but numbers of eggs deposited on these plants exceeded 
other plants. The amounts of glucosinolate were significantly greater in canola 
and cauliflower, intermediate in white cabbage, lower in broccoli and kohlrabi, 
and the lowest in red cabbage.

© The Author(s) 2018. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/toy384
PMID: 30561670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Cancer. 2019 Mar 15;125(6):952-962. doi: 10.1002/cncr.31884. Epub 2018 Dec
18.

A decision analysis comparing 3 active surveillance protocols for the treatment 
of patients with low-risk prostate cancer.

White C(1), Nimeh T(2), Gazelle GS(3)(4), Weinstein MC(4), Loughlin KR(5).

Author information:
(1)PhD Program in Health Policy, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Harvard 
University, Boston, Massachusetts.
(2)Department of Urology, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.
(3)Department of Radiology, Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.
(4)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard T. H. Chan School of 
Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts.
(5)Department of Urology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: Active surveillance (AS) is a viable management option for 
approximately 50% of men who are newly diagnosed with prostate cancer. To the 
authors' knowledge, no direct comparisons between the different variants of AS 
protocols have been conducted to date. The authors developed a microsimulation 
decision model to evaluate which of 3 alternative AS protocols is optimal for 
men with low-risk prostate cancer, and compared each of these with immediate 
treatment.
METHODS: Men who were diagnosed with low-risk prostate cancer at age 65 years 
were modeled as having been treated with either immediate therapy or via each of 
3 AS protocols. Modeled AS protocols represent those in the literature; a 
modified AS protocol was included in a sensitivity analysis. Immediate therapy 
included radical prostatectomy, external-beam radiotherapy, or brachytherapy. 
Outcome measures were quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and costs. 
Cost-effectiveness analysis and deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Immediate therapy produced fewer QALYs than all variants of AS. Of the 
AS protocols evaluated, biennial biopsy was found to be the only efficient 
option, with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $3490 per QALY compared 
with immediate therapy. It delayed the need for curative therapy by a mean of 56 
months, and was found to be preferred in >86.9% of cases in probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis. A modified version of low-intensity AS dominated all other 
options.
CONCLUSIONS: For a 65-year-old man with low-risk prostate cancer, AS with 
biennial biopsy appears to be highly cost-effective compared with common 
alternatives. An AS protocol using triennial biopsy was found to dominate all 
other strategies and should be considered for men who are comfortable with a 
longer period between biopsies. The optimal strategy depends on a patient's 
tolerance for periodic biopsies and comfort with delaying radical treatment. 
Physicians should incorporate these patient preferences into decision making.

© 2018 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.31884
PMID: 30561761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2018 Dec;11(12):e004748. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.118.004748.

The Ross Procedure: A Systematic Review, Meta-Analysis, and Microsimulation.

Etnel JRG(1), Grashuis P(1), Huygens SA(1)(2), Pekbay B(1), Papageorgiou 
G(1)(3), Helbing WA(4), Roos-Hesselink JW(5), Bogers AJJC(1), Mokhles MM(1), 
Takkenberg JJM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Erasmus University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands (J.R.G.E., P.G., S.A.H., B.P., G.P., A.J.J.C.B., 
M.M.M., J.J.M.T.).
(2)Erasmus School of Health Policy & Management, ErasmusUniversity Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands (S.A.H.).
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands (G.P.).
(4)Division of Cardiology, Department of Pediatrics, Erasmus University Medical 
Center, Sophia Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, The Netherlands (W.A.H.).
(5)Department of Cardiology, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands (J.W.R.-H.).

BACKGROUND: To support decision-making in aortic valve replacement in children 
and adults, we provide a comprehensive overview of outcome after the Ross 
procedure.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A systematic search was conducted for publications 
reporting clinical outcome after the Ross procedure, published between January 
1, 2000, and November 22, 2017. Reported event rates and time-to-event data were 
pooled and entered into a microsimulation model to calculate life expectancy and 
lifetime event risk. Ninety-nine publications were included (13 129 patients; 
total follow-up: 93 408 patient-years, pooled mean follow-up: 7.9±5.3 years). 
Pooled mean age at surgery was 9.4±5.5 years for children and 41.9±11.4 for 
adults. For children and adults, respectively, pooled early mortality risk was 
4.19% (95% CI, 3.21-5.46) and 2.01% (95% CI, 1.44-2.82), late mortality rate was 
0.54%/y (95% CI, 0.42-0.70) and 0.59%/y (95% CI, 0.46-0.76), autograft 
reintervention 1.28%/y (95% CI, 0.99-1.66) and 0.83%/y (95% CI, 0.68-1.01), and 
right ventricular outflow tract reintervention 1.97%/y (95% CI, 1.64-2.36) and 
0.47%/y (95% CI, 0.37-0.59). Pooled thromboembolism and bleeding rates were low 
and comparable to the general population. Lifetime risks of autograft and right 
ventricular outflow tract reintervention were, respectively, 94% and 100% for 
children and 49% and 19% for a 45-year-old. Estimated life expectancy after 
surgery was 59 years for children (general population: 64 years) and 30 years 
for a 45 years old (general population: 31 years).
CONCLUSIONS: Through excellent survival and avoidance of the burden of 
anticoagulation, the Ross procedure provides a unique opportunity for patients 
whose preferences do not align with the outcome provided by mechanical valve 
replacement and for growing children who also benefit from autograft diameter 
increase along with somatic growth. On the downside, almost all pediatric and 
many adult Ross patients will require a reintervention in their lifetime.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.118.004748
PMID: 30562065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2018 Dec;143(25):1837-1841. doi: 10.1055/a-0601-0682.
Epub  2018 Dec 18.

[Demented Presidents: Risks and Side-Effects].

[Article in German]

Förstl H.

Intellectually challenged heads of state have had a remarkable impact on the 
course of history and the problem of age-associated impairment in politicians 
appears to increase with growing life expectancy. Lenin, Paul Deschanel, Woodrow 
Wilson, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Heinrich Lübke, Urho Kekkonen, Mao tse tung, 
Ronald Reagan, Pope John Paul II., and Robert Mugabe were still in power while 
showing signs of cognitive impairment. Margaret Thatcher, Walter Scheel, Helmut 
Kohl and many others developed dementia after their resignation. Mild cognitive 
impairment in Paul von Hindenburg and in communist sclerocrats (Andropow, 
Breshnew, Ceausescu, Honecker, Mielke and others) may have contributed to the 
rise of Adolf Hitler and the downfall of communist regimes, respectively. Two 
prototypes of presidential dementia have to be distinguished: the tragic senile 
King-Lear-form with cognitive deficits and the buffalo- and buffoon-like 
King-Ubu-type with predominant behavioral disturbances.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/a-0601-0682
PMID: 30562817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts of 
interest in this work.


244. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2018 Dec 17;15(12):2890. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph15122890.

Trends in Life Expectancy and Its Association with Economic Factors in the Belt 
and Road Countries-Evidence from 2000⁻2014.

Bai R(1)(2), Wei J(3)(4), An R(5), Li Y(6)(7), Collett L(8), Dang S(9), Dong 
W(10), Wang D(11), Fang Z(12)(13), Zhao Y(14)(15), Wang Y(16)(17).

Author information:
(1)Global Health Institute, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, 
Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, China. bairuhai@stu.xjtu.edu.cn.
(2)School of Public Health, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, 
Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, China. bairuhai@stu.xjtu.edu.cn.
(3)Global Health Institute, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, 
Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, China. junxiang.wei@mail.xjtu.edu.cn.
(4)School of Public Health, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, 
Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, China. junxiang.wei@mail.xjtu.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Kinesiology and Community Health, College of Applied Health 
Sciences, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Illinois, IL 61820, USA. 
ran5@illinois.edu.
(6)Center for Health Innovation, The New York Academy of Medicine, New York, NY 
10029, USA. yanliacademic@gmail.com.
(7)Department of Population Health Science and Policy, Icahn School of Medicine 
at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA. yanliacademic@gmail.com.
(8)Department of Clinical Sciences, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, 
Liverpool L3 5QA, UK. laura.collett@bristol.ac.uk.
(9)School of Public Health, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, 
Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, China. tjdshn@mail.xjtu.edu.cn.
(10)School of Public Health, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, 
Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, China. wanyuedong@foxmail.com.
(11)Department of Clinical Sciences, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, 
Liverpool L3 5QA, UK. Duolao.Wang@lstmed.ac.uk.
(12)Global Health Institute, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, 
Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, China. fangzp@stu.xjtu.edu.cn.
(13)School of Public Health, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, 
Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, China. fangzp@stu.xjtu.edu.cn.
(14)Global Health Institute, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, 
Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, China. yaling-zhao@163.com.
(15)School of Public Health, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, 
Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, China. yaling-zhao@163.com.
(16)Global Health Institute, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, 
Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, China. youfawang@gmail.com.
(17)School of Public Health, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, 
Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, China. youfawang@gmail.com.

In 2013, China launched the Belt and Road (B&amp;R) Initiative in an effort to 
promote trade and economic collaboration. This study examined the change in life 
expectancy (LE) among countries along B&amp;R and studied the impact of economic 
development on LE. Data from 65 B&amp;R countries from 2000 to 2014 were 
compiled and analyzed. Trend of LE was examined by sex and country. Linear 
quantile mixed model was used to study the associations between LE and economic 
factors. In 2014, the average LE in all B&amp;R countries was 69.7 years for men 
and 73.7 years for women. Across countries in 2014, LE for men ranged from 58.6 
years in Afghanistan to 80.2 years in Israel. LE for women ranged from 61.3 
years in Afghanistan to 85.9 in Singapore. GDP per capita was positively 
associated with longevity across B&amp;R countries. The unemployment rate was 
positively associated with LE only for countries in the top LE quantiles. GDP 
growth rate and Inflation were negatively associated with LE for the countries 
in the bottom LE quantiles for men, not for women. LE increased substantially 
among B&amp;R countries during 2000⁻2014. The influence of macroeconomic factors 
on LE was related to the distribution of LE.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph15122890
PMCID: PMC6313698
PMID: 30562984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


245. Medicina (Kaunas). 2018 Dec 5;54(6):103. doi: 10.3390/medicina54060103.

Reliability and Validity of the Lithuanian Version of CASP-19: A Quality of Life 
Questionnaire for the Elderly.

Černovas A(1), Alekna V(2), Tamulaitienė M(3), Stukas R(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine of Vilnius University, 03101 Vilnius, Lithuania. 
andrejus.cernovas@mf.vu.lt.
(2)Faculty of Medicine of Vilnius University, 03101 Vilnius, Lithuania. 
vidmantas.alekna@mf.vu.lt.
(3)Faculty of Medicine of Vilnius University, 03101 Vilnius, Lithuania. 
marija.tamulaitiene@mf.vu.lt.
(4)Faculty of Medicine of Vilnius University, 03101 Vilnius, Lithuania. 
rimantas.stukas@mf.vu.lt.

Introduction: Ageing is associated with several physical, psychological, and 
behavioral changes. These changes are closely related with general health 
problems and quality of life in old age. The CASP-19 multidimensional instrument 
was specially designed to measure quality of life in the elderly. The different 
language versions of this scale have been used in more than 20 countries. 
However, Lithuanian translation was not available. The objective of our study 
was to test psychometric properties of the Lithuanian version of the CASP-19 
questionnaire. Materials and methods: A cross-sectional study was performed with 
ambulatory men and women aged 60 and older, living in a community in Vilnius, 
Lithuania. Exclusion criteria were current acute illness, malignant tumor, and 
Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score < 25 points. Psychometric properties 
of CASP-19 were tested using reliability and validity methods. Results: The 
study sample consisted of 132 participants, 28 (21.8%) of them were men and 103 
(78.2%) women. Analysis of psychometric properties of the Lithuanian version of 
CASP-19 showed high internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha 0.85), good agreement 
between test-retest measures with an ICC of 0.82 (95% CI 0.79⁻0.85) and good 
convergent and divergent construct validity. Conclusions: The psychometric 
properties indicated that the Lithuanian version of CASP-19 was reliable and 
valid. As such, it might be used to evaluate quality of life in elderly people.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina54060103
PMCID: PMC6306751
PMID: 30563154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have indicated that they have no 
conflicts of interest regarding the content of this article.


246. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2018 Dec 18;16(1):235. doi: 
10.1186/s12955-018-1056-y.

Valuing health states: is the MACBETH approach useful for valuing EQ-5D-3L 
health states?

Oliveira MD(1), Agostinho A(1), Ferreira L(2)(3), Nicola P(4), Bana E Costa 
C(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Management Studies of Instituto Superior Técnico - CEG-IST, 
Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal.
(2)University of the Algarve - ESGHT, Faro, Portugal. lnferrei@ualg.pt.
(3)Centre for Health Studies & Research - CEISUC, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal. lnferrei@ualg.pt.
(4)Epidemiology Unit, Faculty of Medicine, Institute of Preventive Medicine, 
Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal.

BACKGROUND: Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) are a key outcome measure widely 
used within health technology assessment and health service research studies. 
QALYs combine quantity and quality of life, with quality of life calculations 
relying on the value of distinct health states. Such health states' values 
capture the preferences of a population and have been typically built through 
numerical elicitation methods. Evidence points to these value scores being 
influenced by methods in use and individuals reporting cognitive difficulties in 
eliciting their preferences. Evidence from other areas has further suggested 
that individuals may prefer using distinct elicitation techniques and that this 
preference can be influenced by their numeracy. In this study we explore the use 
of the MACBETH (Measuring Attractiveness by a Categorical Based Evaluation 
Technique) non-numerical preference elicitation approach for health states' 
evaluation.
METHODS: A new protocol for preference elicitation based on MACBETH (only 
requiring qualitative judgments) was developed and tested within a web survey 
format. A sample of the Portuguese general population (n=243) valued 25 EQ-5D-3L 
health states with the MACBETH protocol and with a variant of the time trade-off 
(TTO) protocol, for comparison purposes and for understanding respondents' 
preference for distinct protocols and differences in inconsistent evaluations. 
Respondents answered to a short numeracy test, and basic socio-economic 
information collected.
RESULTS: Results show that the mean values derived from MACBETH and the TTO 
variant are strongly correlated; however, there are substantial differences for 
several health states' values. Large and similar numbers of logical 
inconsistencies were found in respondents' answers with both methods. 
Participants with higher levels of numeracy according to the test preferred 
expressing value judgments with MACBETH, while participants with lower levels 
were mostly indifferent to both methods. Higher correlations between MACBETH and 
TTO variant evaluations were observed for individuals with higher numeracy.
CONCLUSION: Results suggest that it is worth researching the use of 
non-numerical preference elicitation methods. Numeracy tests more appropriate 
for preference elicitation when no explicit considerations of uncertainty are 
made need to be explored and used. Further behavioural research is needed to 
fully understand the potential for using these methods in distinct settings 
(e.g. in different evaluation contexts and in face-to-face and non-face-to-face 
environments), as well as to explore the effect of literacy on assessments and 
on respondents' preferences.

DOI: 10.1186/s12955-018-1056-y
PMCID: PMC6299594
PMID: 30563525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: 
Ethic issues concerning “Humans” and “Protection of personal data” arose from 
the use of the web survey and from the statistical analyses of web survey data. 
All research activities followed fundamental ethical principles (European 
Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of individuals with regard to the 
processing of personal data). All participants were invited via email and 
informed about the objective, scope and research design of the study and about 
its research uses. All participants chose to participate in the study. No 
personal data beyond age was collected. All data generated or analysed during 
this study are included in this article. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not 
applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: None of the authors have any competing 
interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to 
jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


247. G Chir. 2018 Nov-Dec;39(6):355-362.

Surgery for colorectal cancer in elderly patients: is there such a thing as 
being too old?

Banysch M, Akkaya T, Gurenko P, Papadakis M, Heuer T, Kasim E, Tavarajah S, 
Kaiser GM.

INTRODUCTION: The overall increase in life expectancy causes a rapid increase in 
number of elderly patients needing colorectal surgery. It remains unclear if 
there is a significant risk factor in patients over 80 years of age for 
postoperative morbidity and mortality. For this reason we investigated the 
perioperative, outcome and long-term survival after surgery for colorectal 
cancer in our hospital.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We retrospectively analysed a database containing 
information about patients who underwent surgery for colorectal cancer from 
January 2010 to December 2015 at the St. Bernhard Hospital in Kamp-Lintfort, 
Germany. The last follow-up date was 31th of December 2017.
RESULTS: A total of 232 patients were enrolled and analysed in this study. All 
patients were separated in tow groups depending in age. The first group was ≥80 
years old (n=49). The second group was <80 years old (n=183). High ASA-Scores 
(≥3) were detectable more often in elderly patients (p<0,05). Elderly and young 
patients had a similar risk for postoperative anastomosic leakages (p=0,047). 
Likewise there were no significant differences regarding the 
Dindo-Clavien-Classification (p=0,13). The mortality within the first 30 days 
after surgery was significant elevated for elderly patients compared to younger 
patients (p=0,04). Also the overall 1-year survival was 90% for the younger and 
73,5% for the older study group (p<0,05) Conclusion. Both the short-term outcome 
and long-term survival rate after colorectal surgery for cancer are worse for 
patients older than 80 years of age. After interpretation of all data it remains 
unclear if the age itself is still the biggest risk factor. When old patients 
have a good ASA-Score and no severe comorbidities, colorectal surgery remains 
safe even for patients older than 80 years.

PMID: 30563598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. JMIR Cancer. 2018 Dec 18;4(2):e11073. doi: 10.2196/11073.

How to Optimize Health Messages About Cancer on Facebook: Mixed-Methods Study.

Biancovilli P(#)(1)(2), Jurberg C(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Doctoral School of Health Sciences, University of Pécs, Pécs, Hungary.
(2)Laboratório de Imunologia Tumoral Dra. Ottilia Affonso Mitidieri, Instituto 
de Bioquímica Médica Leopoldo de Meis, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(3)Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Incidence rate of cancer is increasing worldwide, with longer life 
expectancy being one of the main causes. Yet, between 30% and 50% of cancer 
cases are preventable, and early detection contributes to a better prognosis. 
This makes health communication strategies essential. Facebook, the world's most 
used social networking site in 2017 and 2018, can be a useful tool for 
disseminating powerful messages on health promotion, prevention, and early 
detection.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to (1) offer ways of optimizing health messages about cancer 
on Facebook, focusing on topics, such as risk factors, prevention, treatment, 
early diagnosis, and cure, and (2) investigate which aspects of these messages 
generate greater engagement.
METHODS: To verify what generates greater engagement in topics related to cancer 
on Facebook, we analyzed 16 Brazilian pages with the main theme of cancer. We 
performed a manual analysis of texts, content, and engagement rates. Finally, we 
developed a software program to operationalize the analysis of Facebook posts. 
The tool we devised aims to automate the analysis of any Facebook page with 
cancer as the main theme.
RESULTS: We analyzed 712 posts over a 1-month period. We divided the posts into 
the following 8 categories: "Testimonies or real-life stories," "Solidarity," 
"Anniversaries," "Science and health," "Events," "Institutional," "Risk 
factors," and "Beauty." The pages were also organized into groups according to 
the type of profile to which they belonged (ie, hospitals or foundations, 
informative, nongovernmental organizations, and personal pages).The results 
showed that the categories generating greater engagement in Brazil were not 
those with the highest percentage of cancer-related content. For instance, in 
the "Informative" group the "Testimonies or real-life stories" category 
generated an engagement of 79.5%. However, only 9.5% (25/261) of the content 
within the relevant time period dealt with such topics. Another example concerns 
the category "Science and health." Despite being the one with the highest number 
of posts (129/261, 49.4%), it scored 5th in terms of engagement. This 
investigation served as the basis for the development of a tool designed to 
automate the analysis of Facebook pages. The list of categories and keywords 
generated by this analysis was employed to feed the system, which was then able 
to categorize posts appearing on a Facebook page. We tested the system on 163 
posts and only 34 were classified incorrectly, which amounts to a 20.8% error 
rate (79.2% accuracy).
CONCLUSIONS: The analysis we conducted by categorizing posts and calculating 
engagement rates shows that the potential of Facebook pages is often 
underutilized. This occurs because the categories that generate the greatest 
engagement are often not those most frequently used. The software developed in 
this research may help administrators of cancer-related pages analyze their 
posts more easily and increase public interest as a result.

©Priscila Biancovilli, Claudia Jurberg. Originally published in JMIR Cancer 
(http://cancer.jmir.org), 18.12.2018.

DOI: 10.2196/11073
PMCID: PMC6315252
PMID: 30563821

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


249. Clujul Med. 2018 Oct;91(4):414-421. doi: 10.15386/cjmed-1018. Epub 2018 Oct
30.

Nutritional status and eating disorders among medical students from the 
Cluj-Napoca University centre.

Brumboiu MI(1), Cazacu I(2), Zunquin G(3), Manole F(4), Mogosan CI(2), 
Porrovecchio A(5), Peze T(3), Tavolacci MP(6), Ladner J(6).

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology Department, Iuliu Hatieganu University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(2)Pharmacy Department, Iuliu Hatieganu University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(3)University of the Littoral Opal Coast - EA 7369 - URePSSS - Unité de 
Recherche Pluridisciplinaire Sport Santé Société, F-59383 Dunkerque, France.
(4)Nutrition Department, Cluj-Napoca Unit - The Network of International 
Francophone Clinical Epidemiology, Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(5)University of Lille - EA 7369 - URePSSS - Unité de Recherche 
Pluridisciplinaire Sport Santé Société, F-59000 Lille, France.
(6)Rouen University Hospital, Rouen, France; INSERM Unit 1073, School of 
Medicine, University of Rouen, Rouen, France.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The nutritional disorders are modifiable predisposing 
factors of the current leading causes of morbidity and premature mortality, such 
as cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and cancers. An early recognition of 
appropriate interventions could decrease the burden of medical costs and 
increase the healthy life expectancy. The aims of our study were the description 
of nutritional status, its associated factors, and the detection of eating 
disorders among Romanian medical students of the "Iuliu Hatieganu" University of 
Medicine and Pharmacy, Cluj-Napoca.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted during the 2015-2016 academic 
year, including medical students from all study years, by an online 
questionnaire. The statistics, both descriptive and inferential, were calculated 
using EpiInfo.
RESULTS: A total of 222 students from the University Romanian section were 
included, with a sex-ratio (men:women) of 0.22. The average body mass index of 
the medical students included was 21.3±3.3 kg/m2, for females it was 20.7±3 
kg/m2 and for males 23.9±3.1 kg/m2. For the nutritional disorders such as 
overweight, the prevalence among males (30%) had a net predominance (p<0.001) 
over females (4.4%), while for underweight, it was prevalent only for female 
students (20.3%). Overweight was associated with low academic performance (odds 
ratio (OR)=7.2; 95% confidence interval (95% CI): 1-53.94), smoking (OR=2.4; 95% 
CI: 1-5.76) and binge drinking (OR=3; 95% CI: 1.26-7.25). Eating disorders were 
reported by 25.7% of the students and were significantly more prevalent in 
students in the second academic study cycle (47.4%; 95% CI: 34.7-60.3%) and in 
students with jobs (7%; 95% CI: 2.3-16.1%).
CONCLUSIONS: In this survey, two different distribution models of nutritional 
disorders for both genders were identified, with the predominance of overweight 
among men. Eating disorders were more prevalent among students in the second 
study cycle and those with jobs at the same time.

DOI: 10.15386/cjmed-1018
PMCID: PMC6296733
PMID: 30564017


250. Front Physiol. 2018 Dec 4;9:1756. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2018.01756. eCollection
 2018.

Molecular Consequences of the Myopathy-Related D286G Mutation on Actin Function.

Fan J(1)(2), Chan C(1), McNamara EL(3), Nowak KJ(3)(4)(5), Iwamoto H(6), Ochala 
J(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physics and Materials Science, The University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
(2)City University of Hong Kong Shenzhen Research Institute, Shenzhen, China.
(3)Harry Perkins Institute of Medical Research, QEII Medical Centre, The 
University of Western Australia, Nedlands, WA, Australia.
(4)Department of Health, Office of Population Health Genomics, Public and 
Aboriginal Health Division, Government of Western Australia, East Perth, WA, 
Australia.
(5)School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, The 
University of Western Australia, Crawley, WA, Australia.
(6)SPring-8, Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research Institute, Sayo, Japan.
(7)School of Basic and Medical Biosciences, Faculty of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.

Myopathies are notably associated with mutations in genes encoding proteins 
known to be essential for the force production of skeletal muscle fibers, such 
as skeletal alpha-actin. The exact molecular mechanisms by which these specific 
defects induce myopathic phenotypes remain unclear. Hence, in the present study, 
to better understand actin dysfunction, we conducted a molecular dynamic 
simulation together with ex vivo experiments of the specific muscle 
disease-causing actin mutation, D286G located in the actin-actin interface. Our 
computational study showed that D286G impairs the flexural rigidity of actin 
filaments. However, upon activation, D286G did not have any direct consequences 
on actin filament extension. Hence, D286G may alter the structure of actin 
filaments but, when expressed together with normal actin molecules, it may only 
have minor effects on the ex vivo mechanics of actin filaments upon skeletal 
muscle fiber contraction.

DOI: 10.3389/fphys.2018.01756
PMCID: PMC6288369
PMID: 30564146


251. J Occup Med Toxicol. 2018 Dec 17;13:37. doi: 10.1186/s12995-018-0220-y. 
eCollection 2018.

The office work and stretch training (OST) study: an individualized and 
standardized approach for reducing musculoskeletal disorders in office workers.

Holzgreve F(#)(1), Maltry L(#)(1), Lampe J(1), Schmidt H(2), Bader A(3), Rey 
J(4), Groneberg DA(1), van Mark A(1), Ohlendorf D(1).

Author information:
(1)1Institute of Occupational Medicine, Social Medicine and Environmental 
Medicine, Goethe- University, Theodor-Stern-Kai 7, Building 9a, 60596 Frankfurt 
am Main, Germany.
(2)2Managing Director, Health and Safety, Daimler AG, Stuttgart, Germany.
(3)3Manager Corporate Health Promotion, Health and Safety, Daimler AG, 
Stuttgart, Germany.
