(4)IFOM, The FIRC Institute of Molecular Oncology, via Adamello 16, 20139, 
Milan, Italy. gianluca.deflorian@ifom.eu.
(5)University of Milan, Department of Biosciences, Via Celoria 26, 20133, Milan, 
Italy. thomas.vaccari@unimi.it.

Homozygous mutations in SNAP29, encoding a SNARE protein mainly involved in 
membrane fusion, cause CEDNIK (Cerebral Dysgenesis, Neuropathy, Ichthyosis and 
Keratoderma), a rare congenital neurocutaneous syndrome associated with short 
life expectancy, whose pathogenesis is unclear. Here, we report the analysis of 
the first genetic model of CEDNIK in zebrafish. Strikingly, homozygous snap29 
mutant larvae display CEDNIK-like features, such as microcephaly and skin 
defects. Consistent with Snap29 role in membrane fusion during autophagy, we 
observe accumulation of the autophagy markers p62 and LC3, and formation of 
aberrant multilamellar organelles and mitochondria. Importantly, we find high 
levels of apoptotic cell death during early development that might play a yet 
uncharacterized role in CEDNIK pathogenesis. Mutant larvae also display mouth 
opening problems, feeding impairment and swimming difficulties. These 
alterations correlate with defective trigeminal nerve formation and excess 
axonal branching. Since the paralog Snap25 is known to promote axonal branching, 
Snap29 might act in opposition with, or modulate Snap25 activity during 
neurodevelopment. Our vertebrate genetic model of CEDNIK extends the description 
in vivo of the multisystem defects due to loss of Snap29 and could provide the 
base to test compounds that might ameliorate traits of the disease.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-37780-4
PMCID: PMC6361908
PMID: 30718891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


783. Prev Med Rep. 2019 Jan 16;13:244-248. doi: 10.1016/j.pmedr.2019.01.007. 
eCollection 2019 Mar.

Demographic, health, and attitudinal factors predictive of cancer screening 
decisions in older adults.

Schoenborn NL(1), Xue QL(1)(2), Pollack CE(2), Janssen EM(3), Bridges JFP(4), 
Wolff AC(1), Boyd CM(1).

Author information:
(1)The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States 
of America.
(2)The Johns Hopkins University School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, United 
States of America.
(3)ICON Plc, Gaithersburg, MD, United States of America.
(4)Ohio State University, Department of Biomedical Informatics, Columbus, OH, 
United States of America.

Many older adults receive routine cancer screening even when it is no longer 
recommended. We sought to identify demographic, health-related, and attitudinal 
factors that are most predictive of continued breast, colorectal, and prostate 
cancer screening decisions in older adults under various scenarios. A sample of 
adults age 65+ (n = 1272) were recruited from a nationally representative panel 
in November 2016, of which 881 (69.3%) completed our survey. Participants were 
presented vignettes in which we experimentally varied a hypothetical patient's 
life expectancy, age, quality of life, and physician screening recommendation. 
The dependent variable was the choice to continue cancer screening in the 
vignette. Classification and regression tree (CART) analysis was used to 
identify characteristics most predictive of screening decisions; both the 
participants' characteristics and the hypothetical patient's characteristics in 
the vignettes were included in the analysis. CART analysis uses recursive 
partitioning to create a classification tree in which variables predictive of 
the outcome are included as hierarchical tree nodes. We used automated ten-fold 
cross-validation to select the tree with lowest misclassification and highest 
predictive accuracy. Participants' attitude towards cancer screening was most 
predictive of choosing screening. Among those who agreed with the statement "I 
plan to get screened for cancer for as long as I live" (n = 300, 31.9%), 73.2% 
chose screening and 57.2% would still choose screening if hypothetical patient 
had 1-year life expectancy. For this subset of older adults with enthusiasm 
towards screening even when presented with scenario involving limited life 
expectancy, efforts are needed to improve informed decision-making about 
screening.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pmedr.2019.01.007
PMCID: PMC6350222
PMID: 30719405


784. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2019 May;66(5):e27629. doi: 10.1002/pbc.27629. Epub
2019  Feb 4.

Cost-effectiveness of early cancer surveillance for patients with Li-Fraumeni 
syndrome.

Tak CR(1)(2), Biltaji E(3)(4)(5), Kohlmann W(4)(6), Maese L(6)(7), Hainaut P(8), 
Villani A(9), Malkin D(9), Sherwin CMT(3), Brixner DI(3)(4), Schiffman 
JD(4)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmaceutical Outcomes and Policy, Eshelman School of Pharmacy, 
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.
(2)UNC Health Sciences at MAHEC, Asheville, North Carolina.
(3)Pharmacotherapy Outcomes Research Center, Department of Pharmacotherapy, 
University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah.
(4)Program in Personalized Health, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah.
(5)Division of Clinical Pharmacology, Department of Pediatrics, University of 
Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah.
(6)Huntsman Cancer Institute, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah.
(7)Department of Pediatrics, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah.
(8)Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Inserm U1209 CNRS UMR5309 University 
Grenoble-Alpes, Grenoble, France.
(9)Division of Haematology/Oncology, The Hospital for Sick Children, Department 
of Pediatrics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

INTRODUCTION: Patients with germline TP53 pathogenic variants (Li-Fraumeni 
syndrome [LFS]) are at extremely high lifetime risk of developing cancer. Recent 
data suggest that tumor surveillance for patients with LFS may improve survival 
through early cancer detection. The objective of this study was to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of a cancer surveillance strategy for patients with LFS 
compared with those whose tumors present clinically.
METHODS: A Markov decision analytic model was developed from a third-party payer 
perspective to estimate cost-effectiveness of routine cancer surveillance over a 
patient's lifetime. The model consisted of four possible health states: no 
cancer, cancer, post-cancer survivorship, and death. Model outcomes were costs 
(2015 United States Dollars [USD]), effectiveness (life years [LY] gained), and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER; change in cost/LY gained). One-way 
sensitivity analyses and probabilistic sensitivity analyses examined parameter 
uncertainty.
RESULTS: The model showed a mean cost of $46 496 and $117 102 and yielded 23 and 
27 LY for the nonsurveillance and surveillance strategies, respectively. The 
ICER for early cancer surveillance versus no surveillance was $17 125 per 
additional LY gained. At the commonly accepted willingness to pay threshold of 
$100 000/life-year gained, surveillance had a 98% probability of being the most 
cost-effective strategy for early cancer detection in this high-risk population.
CONCLUSIONS: Presymptomatic cancer surveillance is cost-effective for patients 
with germline pathogenic variants in TP53. Lack of insurance coverage or 
reimbursement in this population may have significant consequences and leads to 
undetected cancers presenting in later stages of disease with worse clinical 
outcomes.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.27629
PMCID: PMC6826253
PMID: 30719841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


785. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc. 2019 Jun;27(6):1739-1753. doi: 
10.1007/s00167-019-05392-8. Epub 2019 Feb 5.

The cost-effectiveness of osteochondral allograft transplantation in the knee.

Mistry H(1), Metcalfe A(2)(3), Smith N(3), Loveman E(4), Colquitt J(4), Royle 
P(5), Waugh N(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Sciences, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, 
Gibbet Hill Road, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK. Hema.Mistry@warwick.ac.uk.
(2)Warwick Clinical Trials Unit, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, 
Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK.
(3)University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire, Coventry, CV2 2DX, UK.
(4)Effective Evidence LLP, 26 The Curve, Waterlooville, Hampshire, PO8 9SE, UK.
(5)Division of Health Sciences, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, 
Gibbet Hill Road, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK.

PURPOSE: Osteochondral allografts (OCA) consist of a layer of hyaline cartilage 
and a layer of underlying bone. They are used to repair combined defects of 
articular cartilage and bone. Such defects often occur in people far too young 
to have knee arthroplasty, for whom the main alternative to OCA is conservative 
symptomatic care, which will not prevent development of osteoarthritis. The aim 
of this report was to assess the cost-effectiveness of osteochondral allograft 
transplantation in the knee.
METHODS: Systematic review of evidence on clinical effectiveness and economic 
modelling.
RESULTS: The evidence on osteochondral allograft transplantation comes from 
observational studies, but often based on good quality prospective registries of 
all patients having such surgery. Without controlled trials, it was necessary to 
use historical cohorts to assess the effect of osteochondral grafts. There is 
good evidence that OCA are clinically effective with a high graft survival rate 
over 20 years. If an OCA graft fails, there is some evidence that revision with 
a second OCA is also effective, though less so than primary OCA. Economic 
modelling showed that osteochondral allograft transplantation was highly 
cost-effective, with costs per quality adjusted life year much lower than many 
other treatments considered cost effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Osteochondral allograft transplantation appears highly 
cost-effective though the cost per quality adjusted life year varies according 
to the widely varying costs of allografts. Based on one small study, revision 
OCA also appears very cost-effective, but more evidence is needed.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: II.

DOI: 10.1007/s00167-019-05392-8
PMCID: PMC6541582
PMID: 30721344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no potential 
conflict of interest.


786. Res Dev Disabil. 2019 Apr;87:21-30. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2019.01.005. Epub
2019  Feb 2.

Personal relationships during end-of-life care: Support staff views of issues 
for individuals with intellectual disability.

Hussain R(1), Wark S(2), Müller A(3), Ryan P(3), Parmenter T(4).

Author information:
(1)ANU Medical School & Research School of Population Health, Australian 
National University, Canberra, Australia.
(2)School of Rural Medicine, University of New England, Armidale, NSW, 2351, 
Australia. Electronic address: swark5@une.edu.au.
(3)School of Rural Medicine, University of New England, Armidale, NSW, 2351, 
Australia.
(4)Centre for Disability Studies, Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy for persons with intellectual disability has 
increased dramatically over the past decade, which has seen an associated rise 
in the need for end-of-life care. However, little is known regarding how 
end-of-life affects the individual's personal relationships with family, friends 
and staff.
METHODS: Focus group interviews were undertaken with 35 disability support 
workers from four rural and two metropolitan locations in NSW and Queensland, 
Australia. A semi-structured interview guide was used, with a focus on the 
gaining an understanding of the impact that end-of-life has on personal 
relationships for persons with intellectual disability.
RESULTS: The thematic analysis identified three key thematic areas: 
Relationships with Family, Relationships with Friends and Staff Roles. 
Relationships with Family had three sub-themes of 'Active and Ongoing', 'Active 
but Limited' and 'After Death'. Relationships with Friends had two sub-themes of 
'Positive Experiences' and 'Negative Experiences', and Staff Roles had two 
sub-themes of 'Loss of Contact' and 'Default Decision Making'.
DISCUSSION: The frequency of family contact was not reported as increasing or 
decreasing following the diagnosis of a life-ending illness and during an 
individual's end-of-life. A lack of counselling support was noted as potentially 
impairing the individual's friends' ability to cope with death. Staff also 
reported a number of concerns regarding how their relationships with the 
individual changed, particularly when end-of-life entailed potential movement of 
the individual with intellectual disability to a new residential setting.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2019.01.005
PMID: 30721803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Endoscopy. 2019 Mar;51(3):266-277. doi: 10.1055/a-0831-2522. Epub 2019 Feb
5.

Endoscopic surveillance after surgical or endoscopic resection for colorectal 
cancer: European Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ESGE) and European 
Society of Digestive Oncology (ESDO) Guideline.

Hassan C(1), Wysocki PT(2), Fuccio L(3), Seufferlein T(4), Dinis-Ribeiro M(5), 
Brandão C(5), Regula J(6), Frazzoni L(3), Pellise M(7), Alfieri S(8), Dekker 
E(9), Jover R(10), Rosati G(11), Senore C(12), Spada C(13), Gralnek I(14), 
Dumonceau JM(15), van Hooft JE(9), van Cutsem E(16), Ponchon T(17).

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Unit, Nuovo Regina Margherita Hospital, Rome, Italy.
(2)Maria Sklodowska-Curie Memorial Cancer Centre and Institute of Oncology, 
Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, S. Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, 
University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine I, Ulm University Hospital, Ulm, Germany.
(5)CIDES/CINTESIS, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(6)Medical Centre for Postgraduate Education, Maria Sklodowska-Curie Memorial 
Cancer Centre and Institute of Oncology, Warsaw, Poland.
(7)Gastroenterology Department, Endoscopy Unit, ICMDiM, Hospital Clinic, 
CIBEREHD, IDIBAPS, University of Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(8)Fondazione Policlinico A. Gemelli, IRCCS, Università Cattolica del Sacro 
Cuore, Rome, Italy.
(9)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Amsterdam University Medical 
Centers, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(10)Service of Digestive Medicine, Alicante Institute for Health and Biomedical 
Research (ISABIAL-FISABIO Foundation), Alicante, Spain.
(11)Medical Oncology Unit, S. Carlo Hospital, Potenza, Italy.
(12)Azienda Ospedaliero Universitaria Cittá della Salute e della Scienza Centro 
per l'Epidemiologia e la Prevenzione Oncologica in Piemonte, Turin, Italy.
(13)Digestive Endoscopy Unit, Fondazione Poliambulanza, Brescia, Italy.
(14)Institute of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Emek Medical 
Center, Afula, Israel.
(15)Gedyt Endoscopy Center, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(16)University Hospitals Gasthuisberg, Leuven, Belgium.
(17)Gastroenterology and Endoscopy, Edouard Herriot Hospital, Lyon, France.

1:  We recommend post-surgery endoscopic surveillance for CRC patients after 
intent-to-cure surgery and appropriate oncological treatment for both local and 
distant disease.Strong recommendation, low quality evidence. 2:  We recommend a 
high quality perioperative colonoscopy before surgery for CRC or within 6 months 
following surgery.Strong recommendation, low quality evidence. 3:  We recommend 
performing surveillance colonoscopy 1 year after CRC surgery.Strong 
recommendation, moderate quality evidence. 4:  We do not recommend an intensive 
endoscopic surveillance strategy, e. g. annual colonoscopy, because of a lack of 
proven benefit.Strong recommendation, moderate quality evidence. 5:  After the 
first surveillance colonoscopy following CRC surgery, we suggest the second 
colonoscopy should be performed 3 years later, and the third 5 years after the 
second. If additional high risk neoplastic lesions are detected, subsequent 
surveillance examinations at shorter intervals may be considered.Weak 
recommendation, low quality evidence. 6:  After the initial surveillance 
colonoscopy, we suggest halting post-surgery endoscopic surveillance at the age 
of 80 years, or earlier if life-expectancy is thought to be limited by 
comorbidities.Weak recommendation, low quality evidence. 7:  In patients with a 
low risk pT1 CRC treated by endoscopy with an R0 resection, we suggest the same 
endoscopic surveillance schedule as for any CRC.Weak recommendation, low quality 
evidence.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/a-0831-2522
PMID: 30722071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: E. Dekker has provided consultancy to Olympus 
(2017) and Fujifilm (2016 – 2017), has received a speaker’s fee from Olympus 
(April 2018), and is a co-editor for Endoscopy. R. Jover is an advisor to 
Norgine (2010 – 2018) and to Alfa-Sigma (2017 – 2018). T. Ponchon has been on 
the advisory board of Olympus (2018) and his department has received clinical 
research funding from Fujifilm (2018). T. Seufferlein is vice-president of the 
German Cancer Society (2018). J. E. van Hooft received lecture fees from 
Medtronics (2014 – 2015) and provided consultancy to Boston Scientific 
(2014 – 2016), her department has received research grants from Cook Medical 
(2014 – 2018) and Abbott (2014 – 2017). A. Alfieri, M. Dinis-Ribeiro, J.-M. 
Dumonceau, L. Frazzoni, L. Fuccio, I. Gralnek, C. Hassan, C. Lopes Brandão, M. 
Pellisé, J. Regula, G. Rosati, C. Senore, C. Spada, E. van Cutsem, and P. 
Wysocki have no competing interests.


788. Plant Dis. 2013 Apr;97(4):559. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-08-12-0801-PDN.

First Report of Anthracnose on Rohdea japonica Caused by Colletotrichum liriopes 
in Korea.

Kwon JH(1), Kim J(2).

Author information:
(1)Gyeongsangnam-do Agricultural Research and Extension Services, Jinju 660-360, 
Korea.
(2)Institute of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Gyeongsang National University, 
Jinju 660-701, Korea.

Lily of China (Rohdea japonica Roth) is a flowering plant native to eastern 
Asia. In the summers of 2010 and 2011, suspected anthracnose disease was 
observed on R. japonica plants in the exhibition field of Jinju Agriculture 
Technology Center, Jinju, South Korea. Symptoms began as yellow to brown spots 
on leaves and darkened as the spots expanded. The lesions subsequently became 
dark brown, and bristled acervuli were observed on the dark brown areas. Leaf 
spots led to leaf shriveling and eventual death. Fresh leaf specimens were 
collected from infected plants and the putative causal pathogen was isolated on 
potato dextrose agar (PDA). The fungus formed a dark brown colony, irregularly 
shaped black sclerotia, and abundant setae in PDA cultures. Conidia were 
colorless, falcate, fusiform, and 21 to 26 × 2 to 3 μm. Appressoria were clavate 
to circular and 8 to 12 × 6 to 8 μm. Amplification of the internal transcribed 
spacer was conducted as described previously (2) and generated a 577-bp sequence 
(GenBank Accession No. JQ677042) with 99% identity to sequences of C. liriopes 
strain CBS 119444 (GU227804), identified previously as C. dematium from 
Agavaceae (1). In the phylogenetic tree, the representative strain was placed 
within a clade comprising a reference strain of C. liriopes (data not shown). A 
representative isolate of the pathogen was used to inoculate R. japonica leaves 
for pathogenicity testing. Five 4-month-old R. japonica plants were sprayed to 
runoff with a conidial suspension (104 conidia/ml) and 0.025% Tween. Three 
plants were sprayed with sterilized distilled water and 0.025% Tween as a 
control. The plants were kept in a moist chamber with >90% relative humidity at 
25°C for 48 h and then moved to a greenhouse. After 7 days of incubation, 
necrotic spot symptoms similar to those observed in the field developed on the 
inoculated leaves. Control plants remained asymptomatic. The pathogenicity test 
was repeated twice with similar results and the causal fungus was reisolated 
from the lesions of inoculated plants to satisfy Koch's postulates in each test. 
On the basis of observed symptoms, morphology, pathogenicity, and molecular 
characterization, this fungus was identified as Colletotrichum liriopes. The 
recent outbreak of leaf spot on R. japonica plants suggests that C. liriopes is 
spreading and poses a serious threat to these plants in Korea. References: (1) 
U. Damm et al. Fungal Diversity 39:45, 2009. (2) T. J. White et al. Page 315 in: 
PCR Protocols: A Guide to Methods and Applications, M. A. Innis et al., eds., 
Academic Press, Inc., New York, 1990.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-08-12-0801-PDN
PMID: 30722254


789. Plant Dis. 2013 Jan;97(1):149. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-08-12-0715-PDN.

First Report of Coleus blumei viroid Infecting Coleus in India.

Adkar-Purushothama CR(1), Nagaraja H(2), Sreenivasa MY(2), Sano T(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Agriculture and Life Science, Hirosaki University, Bunkyo-cho 3, 
Hirosaki 036-8561, Japan.
(2)Department of Studies in Microbiology, University of Mysore, Manasagangothri, 
Mysore 570 006, India.

Members of the genus Coleviroid (Coleus blumei viroid [CbVd]), family 
Pospiviroidae have been reported to infect Coleus (Solenostemon sp.). CbVd-1 was 
first reported from Brazil, CbVd-2, -3, and -4 were first reported from Germany, 
whereas CbVd-5 and -6 were recently identified in China (2). In India, Coleus is 
extensively cultivated as an ornamental plant in home gardens. In March to June 
2012, Coleus leaf samples with irregular chlorotic spots/patches were collected 
from home gardens of two different districts of Karnataka (Kodagu and Mysore 
districts), India, suspecting the presence of Coleus blumei viroids (CbVd 1 to 
6). Low molecular weight RNAs were extracted using 2% CTAB buffer containing 1.4 
M NaCl, 20 mM EDTA, pH 8.0 and 100 mM Tris-Cl, pH 8.0 (1). Viroid-like RNA was 
enriched by fractionation 2M LiCl soluble nucleic acids (4). A DNA fragment with 
the expected size of CbVd-1 was detected in 10 (including both districts) of 14 
analyzed (incident rate of 71%) from reverse transcription (RT)-PCR assay using 
Coleviroid specific primers (forward 5'-TGGATCCAGCGCTGCAACGGAATCCA-3' and 
reverse 5'-TTGGATCCGCCAGGGAACCCAGGTAAG-3'). RT was performed at 37°C for 60 min 
in 25 μl reaction mix containing 5 μl RNA extracts, 1 μl reverse primer, 1× 
first strand buffer, 10 mM dNTPs, and 200U M-MuLV-RT (Invitrogen, USA). For PCR, 
2 μl RT was mixed in 25 μl PCR mix containing 0.2 μM each forward and reverse 
primers and 2U LA Taq (Takara-Bio, Japan) according to the manufacturer's 
instruction. PCR parameter was one cycle at 94°C for 2 min, 35 cycles at 94°C 
for 45 s, 53°C for 30 s, and 72°C for 60 s, followed by final extension at 72°C 
for 10 min (4). Sequence analysis of cloned amplicons detected CbVd-1 in India. 
To confirm the sequence of the primer regions, an additional set of tail-tail 
primers were designed, CbVd1-136F (5'-CTTCGTGGAACGGCTCCGCG-3') and CbVd1-136Rev 
(5'-GAAGAAGCCGAAGCAACTCTC-3') and were used for RT-PCR. Amplified products were 
cloned, sequenced and compared with previously obtained data. Further, the 
presences of CbVd-1 in Coleus samples was confirmed by a RNA gel blot assay 
using digoxigenin-labeled CbVd-1 cRNA probe (3). Alignment of 19 sequences 
obtained from four representative Coleus samples found the presence of two 
sequence variants of CbVd-1, namely Ind-1 (GenBank Accession No. AB740017) and 
Ind-2 (AB740018). Ind-1 was found to differ from Ind-2 by two nucleotide 
substitutions at position 40 (C to T) and 211 (T to C). BLAST analysis of Ind-1 
showed 100% sequence similarity with CbVd-1 isolates from China (DQ178399) and 
South Korea (EU 410620), whereas Ind-2 was 99% identical to these two Chinese 
and Koreans isolates. Furthermore, 97% and 96% sequence identity with CbVd 1-RL 
RNA (Accession no. X95366) was observed for Ind-1 and Ind-2, respectively. 
Isolates from India were 88% similar with Coleus blumei viroid 1-RG (X95291). To 
the best of our knowledge, this is the first molecular evidence for the presence 
of CbVd-1 infecting Coleus in India. Coleus harbors various viroid species and 
CbVd-1, reported widely, can transmit efficiently through seed and also could 
infect the other herbaceous plants (3). This report from India will contribute 
further understanding of a potential risk of Coleus viroids in ornamental 
species. References: (1) J. J. Doyle and J. L. Doyle. Phytochem. Bull. 19:11, 
1987. (2) F. H. Fu et al. Plant Dis. 95:494, 2011. (3) Ishiguro et al. Ann. 
Phytopathol. Soc. Jpn. 62:84, 1996. (4) S.-F. Li et al., Plant Pathol. 55:565, 
2006.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-08-12-0715-PDN
PMID: 30722272


790. Plant Dis. 2013 Aug;97(8):1118. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-01-13-0067-PDN.

Fusarium oxysporum Causing Wilt and Stem Rot in Chrysanthemum × morifolium in 
Korea.

Kwon JH(1), Choi O(2), Kim J(2).

Author information:
(1)Gyeongsangnam-do Agricultural Research and Extension Services, Jinju 660-360, 
Korea.
(2)Institute of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Gyeongsang National University, 
Jinju 660-701, Korea. This work was supported by the Rural Development 
Administration Fund PJ009192.

The hardy garden mum Chrysanthemum, or "mum" (Chrysanthemum × morifolium Ram.), 
is a popular flowering herbaceous perennial that is commonly grown for fall 
sales. In October 2011, suspected wilt disease was observed in potted hardy 
garden mums (cv. Guiin) grown in greenhouses in Jinju, South Korea. Symptoms 
included unilateral chlorosis of leaves at the stem apex. Wilted leaves occurred 
initially on the most severely affected side of the plant, but as the disease 
progressed, the entire plant wilted and died. Black necrosis and vascular 
discoloration at the base of stems always developed. Five fungal isolates, 
successfully isolated from 10 infected stems on potato dextrose agar (PDA), 
yielded rapidly growing floccose to felt-like colonies, initially white, but 
turning peach colored. The microconidia were ellipsoid, ovoid, and cylindrical, 
and measured 3 to 12 × 1 to 3 μm. The macroconidia were falcate, lunate, and 
measured 8 to 30 × 2 to 4 μm, and had 1 to 5 septa. Pathogenicity was studied in 
inoculated, potted plants in a greenhouse. A representative isolate of the 
fungus was grown on PDA at 20°C for about 10 days before inoculation. To obtain 
conidial suspensions, 10 ml of sterile distilled water (SDW) was added to the 
culture plates and scraped with a paintbrush to dislodge conidia. The suspension 
from the culture plates was filtered through cheesecloth and diluted to 2 × 104 
micro- and macroconidia/ml with SDW. Nine 3-month-old hardy garden mums were 
planted in 20-cm-diameter plastic pots containing fine sand. After 10 days, the 
roots were cut to a depth of 5 cm on two sides of each plant at a distance of 2 
cm from the stems. Then, 10 ml of conidial suspension were poured into each pot 
above the cuts roots, followed by 20 ml 12 days later. Three mums treated with 
SDW served as controls. Plants were fertilized twice weekly with 100 ml/pot of a 
nutrient solution (1) that lowered the soil pH and enhanced wilt development. 
Thirty days after inoculation, all of the artificially inoculated plants had 
wilted. The control mums remained healthy. The fungus was successfully 
reisolated to complete Koch's postulates. On the basis of the morphological 
characters, the fungus was identified as Fusarium oxysporum (3). To identify the 
isolated fungus, the complete internal transcribe spacer (ITS) rDNA and 
translation elongation factor 1-alpha (EF1-α) sequences were amplified using the 
primers ITS1/ITS4 and EF1/EF2, respectively, and sequenced. The resulting 
sequences were deposited in GenBank (Accession Nos. KC491873 and KC491875). A 
BLAST search of ITS rDNA (544 bp) and EF1-α (712 bp) sequences against a 
database of fungal isolates found 100% and 99% similarity to those of F. 
oxysporum, respectively. Fusarium wilt caused by F. oxysporim on C. morifolium 
has been previously recorded in North America and India but, to our knowledge, 
this is the first report of F. oxysporum causing wilt in hardy garden mum in 
Korea (2). F. oxysporum isolates causing wilts are specific to certain hosts and 
even to host varieties or cultivars. Further work is required to determine to 
which forma specialis and race the pathogen belongs. References: (1) A. W. 
Engelhard and S. S. Woltz. Proc. Fla. State Hort. Soc. 84:351, 1971. (2) H. C. 
Huang et al. Plant Pathol. Bull. 1:57, 1992. (3) C. V. Subramanian. CMI 
Descriptions of Pathogenic Fungi and Bacteria. No. 217, 1970.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-01-13-0067-PDN
PMID: 30722522


791. Plant Dis. 2013 Jul;97(7):1000. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-01-13-0093-PDN.

Sclerotium rolfsii Causes White Rot on Taro in Korea.

Kwon JH(1), Kang DW(1), Kim J(2).

Author information:
(1)Gyeongsangnam-do Agricultural Research and Extension Services, Jinju 660-360, 
Korea.
(2)Institute of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Gyeongsang National University, 
Jinju 660-701, Korea. This work was supported by the Rural Development 
Administration fund PJ009192.

Taro (Colocasia esculenta L.) is grown throughout the world primarily for its 
tubers, which become edible after cooking. Taro stems are often used in a 
traditional soup in South Korea. In September 2012, a suspected white rot of 
taro occurred in a farmer's fields in Jinju, South Korea. Infected plants 
gradually withered, a white mycelial mat appeared, and numerous sclerotia 
developed on the surface of petioles near the soil line. The heavily infected 
petioles rotted and the entire plant eventually died. The freshly isolated 
pathogenic fungus was grown on potato dextrose agar (PDA) and examined 
microscopically. Aerial mycelia usually formed many narrow hyphal strands 4 to 8 
μm wide. The white mycelia formed a typical clamp connection structure after 6 
days growth at 25°C. The sclerotia were white at first, gradually turned dark 
brown, and were 1 to 3 mm in diameter. Small globoid sclerotia formed abundantly 
on PDA after 18 days of growth. Ten 2-month-old potted taro plants were 
inoculated with S. rolfsii-colonized agar discs directly at the base of each 
plant and kept at 25°C in a greenhouse to test pathogenicity. Three taro plants 
were inoculated similarly with uncolonized agar discs as controls. Eight days 
after inoculation, blight symptoms were observed, and S. rolfsii was reisolated 
from the artificially inoculated plants. The control taro plants remained 
healthy. We amplified and sequenced an internal transcribed spacer (ITS) rDNA 
region of the isolate using the ITS1 (5'-TCCGTAGGTGAACCTGCGG-3') and ITS4 
(5'-TCCTCCGCTTATTGATATGC-3') primers to confirm the identity of the fungus (2). 
The resulting 684-bp sequence was deposited in GenBank (Accession No. KC491876). 
A comparison with other sequences available in the GenBank database revealed 
that the ITS sequence shared 100% similarity with Sclerotium rolfsii sequences 
(HQ420816 and JN017199). Based on the symptoms, mycological characteristics, ITS 
sequence analysis, and host plant pathogenicity, this fungus was identified as 
S. rolfsii Saccardo (1). To our knowledge, this is the first report of white rot 
in taro caused by S. rolfsii in Korea. References: (1) J. E. Mordue. CMI 
Descriptions of Pathogenic Fungi and Bacteria. No. 410, 1974. (2) T. J. White et 
al. Page 315 in: PCR Protocols: A Guide to Methods and Applications. Academic 
Press, New York, 1990.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-01-13-0093-PDN
PMID: 30722580


792. Dan Med J. 2019 Feb;66(2):A5528.

The clinical use of hyperbaric oxygen in the treatment of Danish patients with 
diabetic foot ulcers.

Vinkel J(1), Lohse N, Hyldegaard O.

Author information:
(1)julie.vinkel.clausen@regionh.dk.

INTRODUCTION: Patients with diabetic foot ulcers (DFU) suffer from 
diabetes-related complications and comor-bidities. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy 
(HBOT) is a treatment modality with limited capacity used in the treatment of 
DFUs. It is important to ensure that HBOT is offered to patients who are 
suitable for this treatment regarding effect, compliance and life expectancy. 
The objective of the present study was to describe the population of patients 
with DFU who were referred to HBOT in Denmark in the 1999-2016 period.
METHODS: All patients with DFU who were treated at the HBOT chamber in 
Copenhagen during the study period were considered. Patients with an invalid 
social security number or an incorrect diagnosis were excluded. Data on 
comor-bidities, amputation and death were extracted from the Danish National 
patient Registry and the Danish Civil Registration System. Continuous data were 
described as median values and binary data were described as proportions. The 
probability estimate for survival and amputation was investigated by 
constructing Kaplan-Meier curves.
RESULTS: The cohort included 148 patients. Patients were mainly referred from 
the Capital Region (92%) and multi-disciplinary wound care centres were the 
primary referring departments (67%). Comorbidity rates were high with an initial 
median Charlson Comorbidity Index score of five. The five-year amputation and 
mortality estimates after referral were 73.5% and 51.8%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The study showed that Danish DFU patients who are offered HBOT are 
in advanced stages of their disease, and the referral hinges on local factors 
such as geography and the referring source rather than on standardised 
procedures.
FUNDING: none.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: not relevant.

Articles published in the DMJ are “open access”. This means that the articles 
are distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 
Non-commercial License, which permits any non-commercial use, distribution, and 
reproduction in any medium, provided the original author(s) and source are 
credited.

PMID: 30722823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Food Chem. 2019 Jun 15;283:431-436. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2019.01.051.
Epub  2019 Jan 17.

Method for determination of hydrogen peroxide in adulterated milk using high 
performance liquid chromatography.

Ivanova AS(1), Merkuleva AD(2), Andreev SV(3), Sakharov KA(4).

Author information:
(1)Scientific Research Disinfectology Institute of the Federal Service on 
Surveillance for Consumer Rights Protection and Human Well-being, 117246, 
Nauchniy Proyezd, 18, Moscow, Russian Federation. Electronic address: 
nastishka97@list.ru.
(2)Scientific Research Disinfectology Institute of the Federal Service on 
Surveillance for Consumer Rights Protection and Human Well-being, 117246, 
Nauchniy Proyezd, 18, Moscow, Russian Federation. Electronic address: 
monika94@bk.ru.
(3)Scientific Research Disinfectology Institute of the Federal Service on 
Surveillance for Consumer Rights Protection and Human Well-being, 117246, 
Nauchniy Proyezd, 18, Moscow, Russian Federation. Electronic address: 
svandreev.niid@gmail.com.
(4)Scientific Research Disinfectology Institute of the Federal Service on 
Surveillance for Consumer Rights Protection and Human Well-being, 117246, 
Nauchniy Proyezd, 18, Moscow, Russian Federation. Electronic address: 
saharoff05@mail.ru.

Hydrogen peroxide is widely used for disinfection purposes by food industry 
enterprises. Apart from other purposes it is also used to sterilize the 
packaging of dairy products. In some countries hydrogen peroxide is added to 
milk as an adulterant for shelf life extension. However, in most countries the 
concentration of hydrogen peroxide in milk is limited or it is even prohibited 
to add this substance to the product. This study is the first one to describe 
the method of determination of hydrogen peroxide in milk using high performance 
liquid chromatography. Indirect quantitative evaluation of hydrogen peroxide is 
carried out according to the amount of triphenyl oxide produced after the 
reaction between hydrogen peroxide with triphenylphosphine. It has been shown 
that interaction of triphenylphosphine and hydrogen peroxide required about 
40 min. The detection limit of this method is 0.28 mg/L. The recovery of 
hydrogen peroxide was from 97.8% to 103.8%.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2019.01.051
PMID: 30722894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Lancet. 2019 Feb 2;393(10170):401. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(18)33139-8.

Global burden of postoperative death.

Nepogodiev D(1), Martin J(2), Biccard B(3), Makupe A(4), Bhangu A(5); National 
Institute for Health Research Global Health Research Unit on Global Surgery.

Collaborators: Nepogodiev D, Martin J, Biccard B, Makupe A, Ademuyiwa A, Adisa 
AO, Aguilera ML, Chakrabortee S, Fitzgerald JE, Ghosh D, Glasbey JC, Harrison 
EM, Ingabire JCA, Salem H, Lapitan MC, Lawani I, Lissauer D, Magill L, Moore R, 
Osei-Bordom DC, Pinkney TD, Qureshi AU, Ramos-De la Medina A, Rayne S, Sundar S, 
Tabiri S, Verjee A, Yepez R, Garden OJ, Lilford R, Brocklehurst P, Morton DG, 
Bhangu A.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Health Research Global Health Research Unit on Global 
Surgery, Institute of Translational Medicine, University of Birmingham, 
Birmingham B15 2TH, UK.
(2)Universtiy of Western Ontario, Ontario, Canada.
(3)University of Cape Town and Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape Town, South Africa.
(4)University Teaching Hospital Adult Hospital, Lusaka, Zambia.
(5)National Institute for Health Research Global Health Research Unit on Global 
Surgery, Institute of Translational Medicine, University of Birmingham, 
Birmingham B15 2TH, UK. Electronic address: a.a.bhangu@bham.ac.uk.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2019 Jun 29;393(10191):2587.
    Lancet. 2019 Jun 29;393(10191):2588.
    Lancet. 2019 Jun 29;393(10191):2588.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2015 Aug 8;386(9993):569-624.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(18)33139-8
PMID: 30722955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Lancet Infect Dis. 2019 Feb;19(2):128-129. doi:
10.1016/S1473-3099(18)30800-4.  Epub 2019 Jan 30.

Attributable deaths caused by infections with antibiotic-resistant bacteria in 
France.

Raoult D(1), Leone M(2), Roussel Y(3), Rolain JM(4).

Author information:
(1)MEPHI, IHU Méditerranée Infection, Aix-Marseille Université, Marseille 13005, 
France; Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille, IHU Méditerranée Infection, 
Marseille, France. Electronic address: didier.raoult@gmail.com.
(2)MEPHI, IHU Méditerranée Infection, Aix-Marseille Université, Marseille 13005, 
France; Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille, IHU Méditerranée Infection, 
Marseille, France; Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille, Service 
d'Anesthésie et de Réanimation, Hôpital Nord, Marseille, France.
(3)MEPHI, IHU Méditerranée Infection, Aix-Marseille Université, Marseille 13005, 
France; Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille, IHU Méditerranée Infection, 
Marseille, France.
(4)MEPHI, IHU Méditerranée Infection, Aix-Marseille Université, Marseille 13005, 
France.

Comment in
    Lancet Infect Dis. 2019 Feb;19(2):129-130.

Comment on
    Lancet Infect Dis. 2019 Jan;19(1):56-66.

DOI: 10.1016/S1473-3099(18)30800-4
PMID: 30722996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Lancet Infect Dis. 2019 Feb;19(2):129-130. doi:
10.1016/S1473-3099(19)30004-0.  Epub 2019 Jan 30.

Attributable deaths caused by infections with antibiotic-resistant bacteria in 
France - Authors' reply.

Cassini A(1), Plachouras D(2), Monnet DL(2).

Author information:
(1)European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, 169 73 Solna, Sweden. 
Electronic address: alessandro.cassini@ecdc.europa.eu.
(2)European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, 169 73 Solna, Sweden.

Comment on
    Lancet Infect Dis. 2019 Jan;19(1):56-66.
    Lancet Infect Dis. 2019 Feb;19(2):128-129.

DOI: 10.1016/S1473-3099(19)30004-0
PMID: 30722997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Dig Liver Dis. 2019 May;51(5):735-740. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2019.01.008. Epub
2019  Jan 22.

The size of well differentiated pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors correlates with 
Ki67 proliferative index and is not associated with age.

Partelli S(1), Muffatti F(1), Rancoita PMV(2), Andreasi V(1), Balzano G(1), 
Crippa S(1), Doglioni C(3), Rubini C(4), Zamboni G(5), Falconi M(6).

Author information:
(1)Pancreatic Surgery Unit, Pancreas Translational & Clinical Research Center, 
San Raffaele Scientific Institute, "Vita-Salute" University, Milan, Italy.
(2)University Centre for Statistics in the Biomedical Sciences, "Vita-Salute" 
University, Milan, Italy.
(3)Department of Pathology, Pancreas Translational & Clinical Research Center, 
San Raffaele Scientific Institute, "Vita-Salute" University, Milan, Italy.
(4)Department of Pathology, Polytechnic University of Marche Region, Ancona, 
Italy.
(5)Department of Pathology, "Sacro Cuore-Don Calabria" Hospital, Negrar, Italy.
(6)Pancreatic Surgery Unit, Pancreas Translational & Clinical Research Center, 
San Raffaele Scientific Institute, "Vita-Salute" University, Milan, Italy. 
Electronic address: falconi.massimo@hsr.it.

Comment in
    Dig Liver Dis. 2019 May;51(5):741-742.

BACKGROUND: Concerns exist about a conservative management of 
well-differentiated nonfunctioning small pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors 
(NF-PanNET) in young patients and when preoperative Ki67 proliferative index is 
≥3%.
AIM: To evaluate an association between age, tumor size and grading in patients 
with sporadic NF-PanNET who underwent curative resection.
METHODS: Patients who underwent surgery for sporadic NF-PanNET (excluding G3) 
were retrospectively analyzed. Linear regression analysis was performed to 
evaluate a possible correlation between continuous variables, whereas multiple 
logistic regression analysis was performed for determining predictors of 
NF-PanNET-G2.
RESULTS: Overall, 235 patients with NF-PanNET-G1/G2 were included. The median 
largest radiological diameter was 25 mm. Age correlated neither with tumor size 
(P = 0.675) nor with Ki67 index (P = 0.376). On multivariate linear regression 
analysis, factors independently associated with Ki67 index were NF-PanNET size 
(P = 0.031), perineural invasion (P = 0.004), microvascular invasion (P = 0.001) 
and necrosis (P = 0.009). The most accurate NF-PanNET size for predicting 
NF-PanNET-G2 was 25 mm. On multivariate analysis, a NF-PanNET size >25 mm was 
independently associated with the risk of having a PanNET-G2 (P = 0.025).
CONCLUSION: No correlations exist between age and NF-PanNET size or 
proliferative index. Therefore, an a priori aggressive attitude is not justified 
in young patients with small NF-PanNET, as a long-life expectancy is probably 
unlikely to increase the risk of malignant transformation.

Copyright © 2019 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2019.01.008
PMID: 30723019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Eur Urol Focus. 2020 Sep 15;6(5):959-966. doi: 10.1016/j.euf.2019.01.012.
Epub  2019 Feb 2.

Prostate Cancer Survival Estimates by the General Public Using Unrestricted 
Internet Searches and Online Nomograms.

Campagna JP(1), Baumgarten L(2), Labine LP(3), Palma I(4), Albersheim JA(5), 
Sathianathen N(5), Weight CJ(6).

Author information:
(1)University of Minnesota Medical School, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(2)Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, MI, USA.
(3)MultiCare Tacoma Family Medicine, Tacoma, WA, USA.
(4)Vattikuti Urology Institute, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, MI, USA.
(5)Department of Urology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(6)Department of Urology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA. 
Electronic address: cjweight@umn.edu.

BACKGROUND: Patient understanding of cancer-associated risk influences treatment 
preferences and is vital for making informed treatment decisions. Although 
patients traditionally relied on physician visits for cancer information, most 
adults now use the Internet as a primary source of health information.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether US adults can accurately estimate survival for 
hypothetical prostate cancer patients using unrestricted Internet searching and 
an online nomogram.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Adults were recruited at the Minnesota State 
Fair. Participants were shown a pathology report for a prostatectomy cancer 
specimen and asked to estimate the patient's 15-yr survival using an 
unrestricted Internet search. Participants were then asked to re-estimate using 
a freely available, validated prostate cancer nomogram.
OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Participants' answers were 
compared to a "reference" estimate and a "ballpark" estimate of ±10 percentage 
points of the "reference" value.
RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: A total of 129 participants met the inclusion criteria 
and generated complete responses. Only 12% (95% confidence interval [CI] 
7.8-19.2%) were within the "ballpark" estimate when using unrestricted Internet 
searching for overall survival estimates. 23% (95% CI 16.8-31.3%) correctly used 
the nomogram and 51% (95% CI 42.6-59.6%) estimated within the "ballpark" when 
using the nomogram.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of an unrestricted Internet search often yields inaccurate 
estimations of life expectancy, while estimations significantly improve with 
nomogram use. Physicians should educate and guide patients towards credible 
online health resources, facilitate their effective use, and engage in 
discussion with patients regarding the utility of this information.
PATIENT SUMMARY: The general public finds it difficult to estimate prostate 
cancer survival using unrestricted Internet searches. Most patients would 
benefit from Internet guidance from their clinicians to better understand 
prostate cancer pathology reports.

Copyright © 2019 European Association of Urology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euf.2019.01.012
PMID: 30723050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Front Neurol. 2019 Jan 22;10:2. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2019.00002. eCollection
2019.

Voluntary Elbow Extension-Flexion Using Single Joint Hybrid Assistive Limb (HAL) 
for Patients of Spastic Cerebral Palsy: Two Cases Report.

Shimizu Y(1), Kadone H(2), Kubota S(3), Ueno T(1), Sankai Y(4), Hada Y(1), 
Yamazaki M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, University of Tsukuba Hospital, 
Tsukuba, Japan.
(2)Center for Innovative Medicine and Engineering, University of Tsukuba 
Hospital, Tsukuba, Japan.
(3)Division of Regenerative Medicine for Musculoskeletal System, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Japan.
(4)Center for Cybernics Research, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Japan.
(5)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Japan.

Cerebral palsy (CP) patients with spastic diplegia struggle to perform 
activities of daily life (ADL) using their upper arms. The single-joint-type 
Hybrid Assistive limb (HAL) for upper limbs is a new portable robot that can 
provide elbow motion support in accordance with bioelectric activation of 
patient's biceps and triceps brachii muscles. The purpose of this study is to 
assess the feasibility and efficacy of the use of HAL for CP patients. Two 
patients were enrolled in this study. (Case 1: a 19-years-old male, at the Gross 
Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS) level IV, Case 2: a 17-years-old 
male at GMFCS level III). Both these patients experienced difficulty in 
voluntary elbow extension in ADLs. The HAL intervention (eight sessions; 
voluntary extension-flexion training of the elbow with HAL and clinical 
evaluation) was conducted for both sides in Case 1 and for the right side in 
Case 2. Clinical assessments were conducted as follows: Surface electromyography 
was used to evaluate the muscle activities of the biceps, triceps brachii, 
trapezius, and pectoralis major during elbow extension-flexion. The voluntary 
extension-flexion angles of the elbow, the coactivation index of the biceps and 
triceps brachii muscles, synergy analysis, and the Action Research Arm Test 
(ARAT) scores were assessed before and after the HAL sessions; the FIM score was 
evaluated before and after the entire intervention. In Case 1, the voluntary 
extension angle tended to increase after the HAL sessions. In both cases, the 
ARAT scores improved after the sessions. The FIM scores improved after HAL 
intervention. The voluntary extension-flexion of the elbow using the HAL may be 
a feasible option for rehabilitation of CP patients.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2019.00002
PMCID: PMC6349701
PMID: 30723447


800. Food Chem. 2019 Mar 1;275:681-687. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2018.09.154. Epub
 2018 Sep 25.

Extension of postharvest shelf-life in green bell pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) 
using exogenous application of polyamines (spermidine and putrescine).

Patel N(1), Gantait S(2), Panigrahi J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Shri A.N. Patel P.G. Institute of Science and 
Research, Anand, Gujarat 388001, India. Electronic address: 
niyatiptl436@gmail.com.
(2)Crop Research Unit, Directorate of Research, Bidhan Chandra Krishi 
Viswavidyalaya, Mohanpur, Nadia, West Bengal 741252, India; Department of 
Genetics and Plant Breeding, Faculty of Agriculture, Bidhan Chandra Krishi 
Viswavidyalaya, Mohanpur, Nadia, West Bengal 741252, India. Electronic address: 
saikatgantait@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, Shri A.N. Patel P.G. Institute of Science and 
Research, Anand, Gujarat 388001, India. Electronic address: 
jitenp2001@gmail.com.

To extend the postharvest shelf-life of green bell pepper (Capsicum annuum L.), 
an exogenous application of two polyamines, Spermidine and Putrescine (SPD-PUT), 
was tested in multiple combinations (10 μM plus 10 μM, 20 μM plus 20 μM, and 
30 μM plus 30 μM) at 4 ± 1 °C for 40 days. The titratable acidity, protein 
content, activities of catalase and peroxidase, chlorophyll and capsaicin 
content gradually decreased for all the treated and untreated fruits throughout 
the storage period. On the other hand, proline content and antioxidant 
1,1-diphenyl-2-picryl-hydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging activity continuously 
increased with the extension of time-span under storage. Among the three 
treatment combinations, the combination of 20 µM SPD and 20 µM PUT was found to 
be the optimum, based on the response of all the morphological and 
physicochemical traits assessed. The same combination was effective in 
sustaining the quality of green bell pepper following its harvest, for a period 
of at least 40 days.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2018.09.154
PMID: 30724248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Postgrad Med. 2019 May;131(4):241-250. doi: 10.1080/00325481.2019.1578590.
Epub  2019 Feb 26.

Management of hypoglycemia in older adults with type 2 diabetes.

Freeman J(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism , 
Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine , Philadelphia , PA , USA.

Treatment of older adults with type 2 diabetes (T2D) is complex because they 
represent a heterogeneous group with a broad range of comorbidities, functional 
abilities, socioeconomic status, and life expectancy. Older adults with T2D are 
at high risk of recurring hypoglycemia, a condition associated with marked 
morbidity and mortality, because their counter-regulatory mechanism to 
hypoglycemia is attenuated, and recurring hypoglycemic episodes can lead to 
hypoglycemia unawareness. In addition, polypharmacy, a result of multiple 
chronic comorbidities (including heart disease, stroke, and chronic kidney 
disease), can increase the risk of severe hypoglycemia, especially when patients 
are taking sulfonylureas or insulin. Often the signs of hypoglycemia are 
nonspecific (sweating, dizziness, confusion, visual disturbances) and are 
mistaken for neurological symptoms or dementia. Consequences of hypoglycemia 
include acute and long-term cognitive changes, cardiac arrhythmia and myocardial 
infarction, serious falls, frailty, and death, often resulting in 
hospitalization, which come at a high economic cost. The American Diabetes 
Association has recently added three new recommendations regarding hypoglycemia 
in the elderly, highlighting individualized pharmacotherapy with 
glucose-lowering agents with a low risk of hypoglycemia and proven 
cardiovascular safety, avoidance of overtreatment, and simplifying treatment 
regimens while maintaining HbA1c targets. Thus, glycemic goals can be relaxed in 
the older population as part of individualized care, and physicians must make 
treatment decisions that best serve their patients' circumstances. This article 
highlights the issues faced by older people with T2D, the risk factors for 
hypoglycemia in this population, and the challenges faced by health care 
providers regarding glycemic management in this patient group.

DOI: 10.1080/00325481.2019.1578590
PMID: 30724638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Sud Med Ekspert. 2019;62(1):46-49. doi: 10.17116/sudmed20196201146.

[The forensic medical aspects of the problem of victimization of the elderly 
persons as exemplified by a case of suicide of an oncological patient].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Fetisov VA(1), Bogomolov DV(1), Dzhuvalyakov PG(2), Zbrueva YV(3), Kabakova 
SS(4).

Author information:
(1)Russian Federal Centre of Forensic Medical Expertise, Ministry of Health of 
the Russia, Moscow, Russia, 125284.
(2)Department of Forensic Medical Expertise, Astrakhan State Medical University, 
Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation, Astrakhan, Russia, 414000.
(3)Department of Forensic Medical Expertise, Astrakhan State Medical University, 
Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation, Astrakhan, Russia, 414000; 
Astrakhan Regional Bureau of Forensic Medical Expertise, Astrakhan, Russia, 
414024.
(4)Astrakhan Regional Bureau of Forensic Medical Expertise, Astrakhan, Russia, 
414024.

The frequency of suicides is an indirect indicator of the social welfare without 
distinction as to the social and political system. This problem is of special 
importance as regards the well-being of elderly people whose numbers grow 
