(14)Hamilton Niagara Haldimand Brant Community Care Access Centre, Hamilton, 
Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    doi: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2015.7712.
    doi: 10.1001/jamacardio.2017.0084.

IMPORTANCE: Health care services that support the hospital-to-home transition 
can improve outcomes in patients with heart failure (HF).
OBJECTIVE: To test the effectiveness of the Patient-Centered Care Transitions in 
HF transitional care model in patients hospitalized for HF.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Stepped-wedge cluster randomized trial of 
2494 adults hospitalized for HF across 10 hospitals in Ontario, Canada, from 
February 2015 to March 2016, with follow-up until November 2016.
INTERVENTIONS: Hospitals were randomized to receive the intervention (n = 1104 
patients), in which nurse-led self-care education, a structured hospital 
discharge summary, a family physician follow-up appointment less than 1 week 
after discharge, and, for high-risk patients, structured nurse homevisits and 
heart function clinic care were provided to patients, or usual care (n = 1390 
patients), in which transitional care was left to the discretion of clinicians.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Primary outcomes were hierarchically ordered as 
composite all-cause readmission, emergency department (ED) visit, or death at 3 
months; and composite all-cause readmission or ED visit at 30 days. Secondary 
outcomes were B-PREPARED score for discharge preparedness (range: 0 [most 
prepared] to 22 [least prepared]); the 3-Item Care Transitions Measure (CTM-3) 
for quality of transition (range: 0 [worst transition] to 100 [best 
transition]); the 5-level EQ-5D version (EQ-5D-5L) for quality of life (range: 0 
[dead] to 1 [full health]); and quality-adjusted life-years (QALY; range: 0 
[dead] to 0.5 [full health at 6 months]).
RESULTS: Among eligible patients, all 2494 (mean age, 77.7 years; 1258 [50.4%] 
women) completed the trial. There was no significant difference between the 
intervention and usual care groups in the first primary composite outcome (545 
[49.4%] vs 698 [50.2%] events, respectively; hazard ratio [HR], 0.99 [95% CI, 
0.83-1.19]) or in the second primary composite outcome (304 [27.5%] vs 408 
[29.3%] events, respectively; HR, 0.93 [95% CI, 0.73-1.18]). There were 
significant differences between the intervention and usual care groups in the 
secondary outcomes of mean B-PREPARED score at 6 weeks (16.6 vs 13.9; 
difference, 2.65 [95% CI, 1.37-3.92]; P < .001); mean CTM-3 score at 6 weeks 
(76.5 vs 70.3; difference, 6.16 [95% CI, 0.90-11.43]; P = .02); and mean 
EQ-5D-5L score at 6 weeks (0.7 vs 0.7; difference, 0.06 [95% CI, 0.01 to 0.11]; 
P = .02) and 6 months (0.7 vs 0.6; difference, 0.06 [95% CI, 0.01-0.12]; 
P = .02). There was no significant difference in mean QALY between groups at 6 
months (0.3 vs 0.3; difference, 0.00 [95% CI, -0.02 to 0.02]; P = .98).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Among patients with HF in Ontario, Canada, 
implementation of a patient-centered transitional care model compared with usual 
care did not improve a composite of clinical outcomes. Whether this type of 
intervention could be effective in other health care systems or locations would 
require further research.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02112227.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2019.0710
PMCID: PMC6439867
PMID: 30806695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Van Spall 
reports speaker fees from Roche Diagnostics and is supported by MOHLTC and the 
Hamilton Health Sciences Early Career Award. Dr Ko reports support from an 
Ontario Mid-Career Scientist Award from the Heart and Stroke Foundation of 
Canada, Ontario’s office. Dr Connolly reports receiving grants and personal fees 
from Bayer, Bristol Myers-Squibb Pfizer, Portola, Bristol Myers-Squibb, Daiichi 
Sankyo, and Medtronic. No other disclosures were reported.


52. Epidemiol Prev. 2019 Jan-Feb;43(1S1):1-120. doi: 10.19191/EP19.1.S1.002.

Italian Atlas of mortality inequalities by education level.

[Article in English, Italian]

Petrelli A(1), Di Napoli A(2), Sebastiani G(3), Rossi A(2), Giorgi Rossi P(4), 
Demuru E(2), Costa G(5), Zengarini N(5), Alicandro G(3), Marchetti S(3), Marmot 
M(6), Frova L(3).

Author information:
(1)Istituto nazionale per la promozione della salute delle popolazioni migranti 
e il contrasto delle malattie della povertà (INMP), Roma, Italia. 
alessio.petrelli@inmp.it.
(2)Istituto nazionale per la promozione della salute delle popolazioni migranti 
e il contrasto delle malattie della povertà (INMP), Roma, Italia.
(3)Direzione centrale per le statistiche sociali e il censimento della 
popolazione, Istituto nazionale di statistica (Istat), Roma, Italia.
(4)UOC Epidemiologia, Azienda unità sanitaria locale - IRCCS di Reggio Emilia, 
Reggio Emilia, Italia.
(5)UOC a DU Servizio sovrazonale di epidemiologia, ASL TO3 Piemonte, Grugliasco 
(TO), Italia.
(6)Institute of Health Equity, UCL Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, 
University College London, London, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the geographical and socioeconomic differences in 
mortality and in life expectancy in Italy; to evaluate the proportion of 
mortality in the population attributable to a medium-low education level through 
the use of maps and indicators.
DESIGN: Longitudinal design of the population enrolled in the 2011 Italian 
Census, following the population over time and registering any exit due to death 
or emigration.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: The study used the database of the Italian National 
Institute of Statistics (Istat) developed by linking the 2011 Census with the 
Italian National Register of Causes of Death (2012-2014) for 35 groups of causes 
of death. Age, sex, residence, and education level information were collected 
from the Census.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Life expectancy at birth was calculated by sex, Italian 
region, and education level. For the population aged 30-89 years, the following 
items were developed by sex: 1. provincial maps showing, for each cause of 
death, the distribution in quintiles of smoothed standardized mortality ratio 
(SMR), adjusted for age and education level and estimated with Bayesian models 
for small areas (spatial conditional autoregressive model); 2. regional maps of 
population attributable fraction (PAF) for low and medium education levels, 
calculated starting from age-standardized mortality ratios; 3. tables 
illustrating for each region standardized mortality rates and standardized years 
of life lost rate by age (standardized YLL rate), and mortality rate ratios 
standardized by age (MMRs).
RESULTS: Males with a lower education level throughout Italy show a life 
expectancy at birth that is 3 years less than those with higher education; 
residents in Southern Italy lose an additional year in life expectancy, 
regardless of education level. Social inequalities in mortality are present in 
all regions, but are more marked in the poorer regions of Southern Italy. 
Geographical differences, taking into account the different population 
distributions in terms of age and education level, produce mortality differences 
for all causes: from -15% to +30% in women and from -13% to +26% in men, 
compared to the national average. Among the main groups of causes, the 
geographical differences are greater for cardiovascular diseases, respiratory 
diseases, and accidents, and lower for many tumour sites. A clear mortality 
gradient with an excess in Southern Italy can be seen for cardiovascular 
diseases: there are some areas where mortality for people with higher education 
level is higher than that for residents in Northern Italy with low education 
level. The gradient for "All tumours", instead, is from South to North, as it is 
for most single tumour sites. Population attributable fraction for low education 
level in Italy, taking into account the population distribution by age, is 13.4% 
in women and 18.3% in men.
CONCLUSIONS: The study highlighted important geographical differences in 
mortality, regardless of age and socioeconomic level, with a more significant 
impact in the poorer Southern regions, revealing a never-before-seen health 
advantage in the regions along the Adriatic coast. A lower education level 
explains a considerable proportion of mortality risk, although with differing 
effects by geographical area and cause of death. There are still mortality 
inequalities in Italy, therefore, representing a possible missed gain in health 
in our Country; these inequalities suggest a reassessment of priorities and 
definition of health targets. Forty years after the Italian National Health 
Service was instituted, the goal of health equity has not yet been fully 
achieved.

DOI: 10.19191/EP19.1.S1.002
PMID: 30808126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. J Med Econ. 2019 Jun;22(6):584-592. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2019.1588125. Epub 
2019 Mar 20.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of utidelone plus capecitabine for metastatic breast 
cancer in China.

Liao M(1), Jiang Q(2), Hu H(3), Han J(1), She L(1), Yao L(1), Ding D(1), Huang 
J(1).

Author information:
(1)a Departmen of Oncology , Xiangya Hospital, Central South University , 
Changsha , PR China.
(2)b Department of Respiratory , The Seventh Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen 
University , Shenzhen , PR China.
(3)c Department of Medical Oncology , The Sixth Affiliated Hospital of Sun 
Yat-Sen University , Guangzhou , PR China.

Objective: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of utidelone plus capecitabine 
therapy compared to capecitabine alone in patients with metastatic breast cancer 
(MBC) resistant to anthracyclines and taxanes treatment in the Chinese context 
and provide a reference for the marketing of utidelone in China. Methods: A 
Markov model was developed based on the NCT02253459 clinical trial to simulate 
the clinical course of patients with metastatic breast cancer who had received 
taxanes and anthracycline therapy. The quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and 
Incremental Cost Effectiveness Ratio (ICER) were then analyzed to evaluate the 
benefits. Two-parametric Weibull distribution was conducted to fit PFS and OS 
curves by using R. Sensitivity analyses were performed to evaluate the stability 
of the model designed. Results: The addition of utidelone increased the cost and 
QALYs by $13,370.25 and 0.1961, respectively, resulting in an increased ICER of 
$68,180.78 per QALY. The most sensitive influential parameter on ICER was the 
price of utidelone. At the threshold of willingness-to-pay (WTP) of $24,380 (3 
per capita GDP of China), the cost of utidelone per 30 mg of less than $18.5, 
$33.7, and greater than $48.8 resulted in a 100%, 50%, and 0% possibility of 
cost-effectiveness, respectively. The addition of utidelone was not 
cost-effective when it was $115.4 per 30 mg-the price of its analog paclitaxel. 
In consideration of varied economics levels across China, cost-effectiveness 
could be achieved with the price of utidelone ranging from $5.2 to $35.9. 
Limitations: The survival curves extended beyond the follow-up time horizon, of 
which data were generated not from the real analyses but from our established 
two-parameter Weibull survival model. Conclusion: It is recommended that the 
price of utidelone would be less than $18.5 per 30 mg in order to obtain 
cost-effectiveness for metastatic breast cancer patients resistant to 
anthracyclines and taxanes treatment in China.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2019.1588125
PMID: 30808230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Environ Health Prev Med. 2019 Feb 26;24(1):13. doi:
10.1186/s12199-019-0767-y.

A comprehensive policy for reducing sugar beverages for healthy life extension.

Kokubo Y(1), Higashiyama A(2), Watanabe M(2), Miyamoto Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Cardiology, National Cerebral and Cardiovascular 
Center, 5-7-1, Fujishiro-dai, Suita, Osaka, 565-8565, Japan. 
y-kokubo@umin.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Preventive Cardiology, National Cerebral and Cardiovascular 
Center, 5-7-1, Fujishiro-dai, Suita, Osaka, 565-8565, Japan.

The excessive consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages is a public health 
concern worldwide. Several clinical trials examining the effects of consuming 
sucrose or high-fructose corn syrup demonstrated the link between this 
consumption and increased risk factors for cardiometabolic diseases. In this 
issue of Environmental Health and Preventive Medicine, Li et al. examined the 
sugar-sweetened beverage consumption among undergraduate students and evaluated 
the relationship between this consumption and the "late" chronotype, sleep 
duration, and weight increase. They concluded that the sugar-sweetened beverage 
intake might mediate the associations among sleep duration, late chronotype, and 
weight gain and that the intake of sugar-sweetened beverages in the evening may 
be a risk factor for the development of overweight/obesity. A systematic review 
and meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies and randomized controlled trials 
provided evidence that the consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages promotes 
weight gain in both children and adults. The World Health Organization guideline 
highly recommends reducing the intake of sugars to less than 10% of one's total 
energy intake. The Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension diet and the 
Mediterranean diet were shown to help individuals refrain from sweets and 
sugar-containing beverages. A global evaluation revealed how much disability 
during accumulated lifetime hours is due to sugar-sweetened beverages. 
Interventions are necessary, but many individuals find it quite difficult to 
reduce or eliminate their high intake of sugar-sweetened beverages. The taxation 
of sugar-sweetened beverages was demonstrated to have a significant positive 
influence on individuals' planned purchases and the probability of the purchase 
of healthy beverages. Western countries are working on the social regulation of 
sugar-sweetened beverages, but Japan has not implemented any similar 
regulations. The social regulation of sugar-sweetened beverages is necessary to 
stop the increase of diabetes morbidity and the increase in dementia that often 
accompanies this morbidity.

DOI: 10.1186/s12199-019-0767-y
PMCID: PMC6391746
PMID: 30808291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


55. Infect Genet Evol. 2019 Apr;69:267-278. doi: 10.1016/j.meegid.2018.07.001.
Epub  2018 Jul 2.

Potential immune escape mutations under inferred selection pressure in HIV-1 
strains circulating in Medellín, Colombia.

Arcia D(1), Ochoa R(2), Hernández JC(3), Álvarez CM(4), Díaz FJ(5), Velilla 
PA(5), Acevedo-Sáenz L(6).

Author information:
(1)Grupo Inmunovirología, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Antioquia UdeA, 
Calle 70 No. 52-21, Medellín, Colombia. Electronic address: 
edaa1n17@soton.ac.uk.
(2)Programa de Estudio y Control de Enfermedades Tropicales - PECET, Universidad 
de Antioquia UdeA, Calle 70 No. 52-21, Medellín, Colombia.
(3)Infettare, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Cooperativa de Colombia, 
Medellín, Colombia.
(4)Grupo de Inmunología Celular e Inmunogenética, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad de Antioquia UdeA, Calle 70 No. 52-21, Medellín, Colombia.
(5)Grupo Inmunovirología, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Antioquia UdeA, 
Calle 70 No. 52-21, Medellín, Colombia.
(6)Grupo Inmunovirología, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Antioquia UdeA, 
Calle 70 No. 52-21, Medellín, Colombia; Grupo de Investigación en Ciencias 
Básicas, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad CES, Medellín, Colombia.

The introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has 
significantly improved life expectancy of HIV-infected patients; nevertheless, 
it does not eliminate the virus from hosts, so a cure for this infection is 
crucial. Some strategies have employed the induction of anti-HIV CD8+ T cells. 
However, the high genetic variability of HIV-1 represents the biggest obstacle 
for these strategies, since immune escape mutations within epitopes restricted 
by Human Leukocyte Antigen class I molecules (HLA-I) abrogate the antiviral 
activity of these cells. We used a bioinformatics pipeline for the determination 
of such mutations, based on selection pressure and docking/refinement analyses. 
Fifty HIV-1 infected patients were recruited; HLA-A and HLA-B alleles were 
typified using sequence-specific oligonucleotide approach, and viral RNA was 
extracted for the amplification of HIV-1 gag, which was bulk sequenced and 
aligned to perform selection pressure analysis, using Single Likelihood Ancestor 
Counting (SLAC) and Fast Unconstrained Bayesian Approximation (FUBAR) 
algorithms. Positively selected sites were mapped into HLA-I-specific epitopes, 
and both mutated and wild type epitopes were modelled using PEP-FOLD. Molecular 
docking and refinement assays were carried out using AutoDock Vina 4 and 
FlexPepDock. Five positively selected sites were found: S54 at HLA-A*02 GC9, T84 
at HLA-A*02 SL9, S125 at HLA-B*35 HY9, S173 at HLA-A*02/B*57 KS12 and I223 at 
HLA-B*35 HA9. Although some mutations have been previously described as immune 
escape mutations, the majority of them have not been reported. Molecular 
docking/refinement analysis showed that one combination of mutations at GC9, one 
at SL9, and eight at HY9 epitopes could act as immune escape mutations. 
Moreover, HLA-A*02-positive patients harbouring mutations at KS12, and 
HLA-B*35-positive patients with mutations at HY9 have significantly higher 
plasma viral loads than patients lacking such mutations. Thus, HLA-A and -B 
alleles could be shaping the genetic diversity of HIV-1 through the selection of 
potential immune escape mutations.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meegid.2018.07.001
PMID: 30808498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Blood Cancer J. 2019 Feb 26;9(3):26. doi: 10.1038/s41408-019-0183-y.

Management of cardiovascular risk in patients with multiple myeloma.

Plummer C(1), Driessen C(2), Szabo Z(3), Mateos MV(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Freeman Hospital, Freeman Road, Newcastle upon 
Tyne, NE7 7DN, UK. Chris.Plummer@nhs.net.
(2)Department of Oncology and Hematology, Kantonsspital St Gallen, Rorschacher 
Strasse 95, CH-9007, St Gallen, Switzerland.
(3)Amgen (Europe) GmbH, Suurstoffi 22, 6343, Rotkreuz, Switzerland.
(4)Hematology Service, University Hospital Salamanca, Casa del Bedel, Cardenal 
Pla y Deniel, 22, Planta Baja, Salamanca, 37008, Spain.

Multiple myeloma (MM) is a plasma cell malignancy that accounts for 10% of 
hematological cancers. It predominantly affects elderly people; median age at 
diagnosis is 70 years. Consequently, many patients with MM have cardiovascular 
comorbidities or risk factors. MM can cause cardiac comorbidities such as 
cardiomyopathy and heart failure caused by cardiac amyloidosis and/or anemia. 
Some of the treatments used in MM can also affect cardiovascular health. 
Advances in pharmacotherapy for MM, such as the introduction of 
immunomodulators, proteasome inhibitors, histone deacetylase inhibitors, and 
monoclonal antibodies, have dramatically improved progression-free survival and 
life expectancy, but new agent classes are associated with adverse events that 
were not previously observed on a regular basis, including cardiovascular 
events. However, with careful risk assessment, monitoring, and prophylactic 
therapy, many of these cardiovascular complications can be managed or treated 
successfully. Most routine cardiovascular surveillance is undertaken by the 
treating hemato-oncologist, but a multidisciplinary approach involving 
cardiologists may help to optimize patient outcomes. In this review, we survey 
the cardiac complications commonly reported in patients with MM, discuss how 
they can be prevented and managed, and summarize the role cardiologists can play 
in delivering the best possible outcomes for patients with MM and cardiovascular 
comorbidities.

DOI: 10.1038/s41408-019-0183-y
PMCID: PMC6391463
PMID: 30808934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CJ Plummer has received honoraria for advisory 
boards and speaker meetings from Amgen, Pfizer, and Roche. C Driessen is an 
advisor to Amgen and Janssen. Z Szabo is an employee of Amgen and holds stock. 
M-V Mateos has received honoraria and participated in advisory boards from 
Janssen, Celgene, Amgen, Novartis, BMS, and Takeda.


57. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 2019 Jun 1;113(6):341-350. doi:
10.1093/trstmh/trz004.

Burden of disease and economic impact of human Streptococcus suis infection in 
Viet Nam.

Huong VTL(1), Turner HC(2)(3), Kinh NV(4), Thai PQ(5), Hoa NT(2)(3), Horby P(3), 
van Doorn HR(1)(3), Wertheim HFL(6).

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Trust Asia Programme-Oxford University Clinical Research Unit, 78 
Giai Phong, Dong Da, Ha Noi, Viet Nam.
(2)Wellcome Trust Asia Programme-Oxford University Clinical Research Unit, 764 
Vo Van Kiet, Ward 1, District 5, Ho Chi Minh, Viet Nam.
(3)Centre for Tropical Medicine and Global Health, Nuffield Department of 
Medicine, University of Oxford, Old Road campus, Roosevelt Drive, Headington, 
Oxford, UK.
(4)National Hospital for Tropical Diseases, 78 Giai Phong, Dong Da, Hanoi, Viet 
Nam.
(5)National Institute for Hygiene and Epidemiology, 131 Lo Duc, Hai Ba Trung, 
Hanoi, Viet Nam.
(6)Radboud UMC, Geert Grooteplein Zuid 10, GA, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Streptococcus suis is a zoonotic disease mainly affecting men of 
working age and can result in death or long-term sequelae, including severe 
hearing loss and vestibular dysfunction. We aimed to quantify the burden of 
disease and economic impact of this infection in Viet Nam.
METHODS: The annual disease incidence for the period 2011-2014 was estimated 
based on surveillance data using a multiple imputation approach. We calculated 
disease burden in disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) and economic costs 
using an incidence-based approach from a patient's perspective and including 
direct and indirect impacts of S. suis infection and its long-term sequelae.
RESULTS: The estimated annual incidence rate was 0.318, 0.324, 0.255 and 0.249 
cases per 100 000 population in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The 
corresponding DALYs lost were 1832, 1866, 1467 and 1437. The mean direct cost 
per episode was US$1635 (95% confidence interval 1352-1923). The annual direct 
cost was US$370 000-500 000 and the indirect cost was US$2.27-2.88 million in 
this time period.
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed a large disease burden and high economic impact 
of S. suis infection and provides important data for disease monitoring and 
control.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Royal 
Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene.

DOI: 10.1093/trstmh/trz004
PMCID: PMC6580695
PMID: 30809669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Rev Saude Publica. 2019 Feb 25;53:24. doi: 10.11606/S1518-8787.2019053000561.

Diabetes mellitus mortality in a municipality in the state of São Paulo, 2010 to 
2014.

Lima RAD(1), Istilli PT(2), Teixeira CRS(2), Zanetti ML(2), Torquato MTDCG(3).

Author information:
(1)Universidade de São Paulo. Escola de Enfermagem de Ribeirão Preto. Programa 
de Graduação em Enfermagem. Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brasil.
(2)Universidade de São Paulo. Escola de Enfermagem de Ribeirão Preto. Programa 
de Pós-Graduação em Enfermagem Fundamental. Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brasil.
(3)Prefeitura de Ribeirão Preto. Secretaria Municipal da Saúde de Ribeirão 
Preto. Programa de Atenção às Pessoas com Doenças Crônicas não Transmissíveis. 
Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brasil.

OBJECTIVE: To describe diabetes mellitus mortality according to sex and age in a 
municipality in the state of São Paulo, in the period ranging from 2010 to 2014.
METHODS: This was a temporal series ecological study carried out in Ribeirão 
Preto, state of São Paulo. The data was comprised of information on 583 deaths 
of Ribeirão Preto residents - regardless of the place of death - from 2010 to 
2014. The data source was the electronic system of the Epidemiological 
Surveillance of the Municipal Health Department of the evaluated municipality. 
Sex, age group, premature death and year of death were chosen as variables. 
Subsequently, age-standardized mortality rates were calculated using the World 
Health Organization's standard population, in addition to total and average per 
death potential years of life lost.
RESULTS: Mortality due to diabetes mellitus in the municipality increased during 
the studied period. There was a higher occurrence of female deaths, especially 
in the ≥ 80 years age group. The highest rates of age-standardized mortality 
were male. For both sexes, there was an annual mean increase of 9% in premature 
mortality during the studied period. Diabetes decreased life expectancy by 10 
years.
CONCLUSIONS: As a diagnosis of local health care, the significant increase in 
age-standardized mortality rates, premature mortality and potential years of 
life lost in the studied municipality point to the need for improvements in 
health promotion and disease prevention measures. It is our hope that the 
results presented in this study contribute to the monitoring of mortality rates 
in the coming years.

OBJETIVO: Descrever a mortalidade por diabetes mellitus segundo sexo e idade em 
um município do estado de São Paulo, 2010–2014.
MÉTODOS: Estudo ecológico, de série temporal, realizado em Ribeirão Preto, SP. 
Foram investigados 583 óbitos de pessoas residentes no município 
independentemente do local de óbito, no período de 2010 a 2014. A fonte de dados 
foi o sistema eletrônico da Vigilância Epidemiológica da Secretaria Municipal de 
Saúde do município avaliado. Elegeram-se as variáveis sexo, faixa etária, morte 
prematura e ano de ocorrência do óbito. Posteriormente, foram calculadas as 
taxas de mortalidade padronizada por idade, utilizando a população padrão da 
Organização Mundial de Saúde, além do total e média por óbito dos anos 
potenciais de vida perdidos.
RESULTADOS: A mortalidade por diabetes mellitus no município aumentou no período 
estudado. Houve maior ocorrência dos óbitos no sexo feminino, principalmente na 
faixa etária ≥ 80 anos. Os maiores índices da taxa de mortalidade padronizada 
por idade foram no sexo masculino. Em ambos os sexos, houve aumento médio anual 
de 9% na mortalidade prematura no período estudado. O diabetes diminui 10 anos 
da expectativa de vida.
CONCLUSÕES: O aumento expressivo das taxas de mortalidade padronizada por idade, 
de mortalidade prematura e dos anos potenciais de vida perdidos no município do 
estudo entre 2010 a 2014 viabilizaram diagnóstico local de saúde com 
necessidades de melhorias nas medidas de prevenção e promoção da saúde. 
Espera-se que os resultados apresentados neste estudo contribuam para o 
monitoramento dos índices de mortalidade nos próximos anos.

DOI: 10.11606/S1518-8787.2019053000561
PMCID: PMC6390689
PMID: 30810661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


59. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2019 Apr;477(4):707-714. doi: 
10.1097/CORR.0000000000000434.

Should the Use of Biologic Agents in Patients With Renal and Lung Cancer Affect 
Our Surgical Management of Femoral Metastases?

Gutowski CJ(1), Zmistowski B, Fabbri N, Boland PJ, Healey JH.

Author information:
(1)C. J. Gutowski, MD Anderson Cancer Center at Cooper, Department of 
Orthopaedic Surgery, Cooper University Hospital, Camden, NJ, USA C. J. Gutowski, 
N. Fabbri, P. J. Boland, J. H. Healey, Orthopaedic Service, Department of 
Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA B. 
Zmistowski, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Thomas Jefferson University 
Hospital, Philadelphia, PA, USA N. Fabbri, P. J. Boland, J. H. Healey, 
Department of Surgery, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY, USA.

Comment in
    Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2019 Apr;477(4):715-717.

BACKGROUND: Biologic agents may prolong survival of patients with certain kidney 
and lung adenocarcinomas that have metastasized to bone, and patient response to 
these agents should be considered when choosing between an endoprosthesis and 
internal fixation for surgical treatment of femoral metastases.
QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: Among patients undergoing surgery for femoral metastases of 
lung or renal cell carcinoma, (1) Does survival differ between patients who 
receive only cytotoxic chemotherapy and those who either respond or do not 
respond to biologic therapy? (2) Does postsurgical incidence of local disease 
progression differ between groups stratified by systemic treatment and response? 
(3) Does implant survival differ among groups stratified by systemic treatment 
and response?
METHODS: From our institutional longitudinally maintained orthopaedic database, 
patients were identified by a query initially identifying all patients who 
carried a diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma or lung carcinoma. Patients who 
underwent internal fixation or prosthetic reconstruction between 2000 and 2016 
for pathologic fracture of the femur and who survived ≥ 1 year after surgery 
were studied. Patients who received either traditional cytotoxic chemotherapy or 
a biologic agent were included. Patients were classified as responders or 
nonresponders to biologic agents based on whether they had clinical and imaging 
evidence of a response recorded on two consecutive office visits over ≥ 6 
months. Endpoints were overall survival from the time of diagnosis, survival 
after the femoral operation, evidence of disease progression in the femoral 
operative site, and symptomatic local disease progression for which revision 
surgery was necessary. Our analysis included 148 patients with renal (n = 26) 
and lung (n = 122) adenocarcinoma. Fifty-one patients received traditional 
chemotherapy only. Of 97 patients who received a biologic agent, 41 achieved a 
response (stabilization/regression of visceral metastases), whereas 56 developed 
disease progression. We analyzed overall patient survival with the Kaplan-Meier 
method and used the log-rank test to identify significant differences (p < 0.05) 
between groups.
RESULTS: One-year survival after surgery among patients responsive to biologic 
therapy was 61% compared with 20% among patients nonresponsive to biologics (p < 
0.001) and 10% among those who received chemotherapy only (p < 0.009). With the 
number of patients we had to study, we could not detect any difference in local 
progression of femoral disease associated with systemic treatment and response. 
Radiologic evidence of periimplant local disease progression developed in three 
(7%) of 41 patients who responded to biologic treatment, two (3%) of 56 patients 
nonresponsive to biologics, and one (2%) of 51 patients treated with traditional 
chemotherapy. With the numbers of patients we had, we could not detect a 
difference in patients who underwent revision. All three patients responsive to 
biologics who developed local recurrence underwent revision, whereas the two 
without a response to biologics did not.
CONCLUSIONS: Biologic therapy improves the overall longevity of some patients 
with lung and renal metastases to the femur in whom a visceral disease response 
occurred. In our limited cohort, we could not demonstrate an implant survival 
difference between such patients and those with shorter survival who may have 
had more aggressive disease. However, an increased life expectancy beyond 1 year 
among patients responsive to biologics may increase risk of mechanical failure 
of fixation constructs.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III, therapeutic study.

DOI: 10.1097/CORR.0000000000000434
PMCID: PMC6437361
PMID: 30811363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All ICMJE Conflict of Interest Forms for authors 
and Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research® editors and board members are on 
file with the publication and can be viewed on request.


60. PLoS One. 2019 Feb 27;14(2):e0211617. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0211617. 
eCollection 2019.

Quality of life in climacteric women assisted by primary health care.

Souza Guerra GE Júnior(1)(2), Prates Caldeira A(1)(2), Piana Santos Lima de 
Oliveira F(2), Santos Figueiredo Brito MF(1), de Oliveira Silva Gerra KD(1), 
Mendes D'Angelis CE(1), Nogueira Dos Santos LA(1), de Pinho L(1), Santos Brant 
Rocha J(1)(2), Araújo Veloso Popoff D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Program in Primary Health Care, State University of Montes 
Claros, Montes Claros, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
(2)Fipmoc University Center (UNIFIPMoc), Montes Claros, Minas Gerais, Brazil.

This cross-sectional study evaluated the quality of life and associated factors 
of climacteric women in Brazil using a random and representative sample of women 
assisted by primary care professionals. We investigated the variables using the 
Menopause-Specific Quality of Life Questionnaire, MENQOL, whose mean scores were 
compared using Mann-Whitney and Kruskal-Wallis tests according to the sample 
characteristics. The variables associated with the outcomes in univariate 
analyses with a p≤0.2 were jointly evaluated using multiple linear regression. 
In this study, 849 women ranging in age from 40 to 65 years were evaluated. The 
predictors of poor quality of life in the vasomotor domain were women with 
severe climacteric symptoms (p<0.001), increased Body Mass Index (BMI) (p = 
0.006), sleep (p = 0.022), and postmenopausal (p<0.001) alterations. For the 
psychosocial domain, the associated variables were severe climacteric symptoms 
(p<0.001) and sleep alterations (p<0.001); for the physical domain, the 
associated variables were severe climacteric symptoms (p<0.001), increased BMI 
(p<0.001), sleep (p<0.001), and postmenopausal (p<0.001) alterations. Severe 
climacteric symptoms, low sleep quality, increased BMI, and postmenopausal 
status were factors that were more associated with impairments in quality of 
life. With the increase in life expectancy, we suggest that greater attention 
should be paid to women's quality of life associated with climacteric symptoms.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0211617
PMCID: PMC6392298
PMID: 30811409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.61. J Food Prot. 1979 Nov;42(11):855-857. doi: 10.4315/0362-028X-42.11.855.

Extension of Shelf-life of Fresh, Whole Broilers, Using a Potassium Sorbate Dip.

Robach MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Monsanto Company, 800 N. Lindbergh Blvd. St. Louis, Missouri 63166.

The shelf life of fresh, whole broilers was extended by dipping freshly chilled 
carcasses into a 5% (w/v) solution of potassium sorbate for 30 sec. One hundred 
broilers were removed from a processing line immediately following the final 
chill tank. Fifty carcasses were dipped in water for 30 sec, and 50 were dipped 
in the sorbate solution for 30 sec. The birds were allowed to drain and then 
individually bagged and stored at 3 C until spoilage odors were noted. The 
control birds were stored for 10 days when spoilage was evident, and the sorbate 
treated birds were stored for 19 days, at which time spoilage was evident.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028X-42.11.855
PMID: 30812199


62. J Food Prot. 1979 May;42(5):416-419. doi: 10.4315/0362-028X-42.5.416.

Extension of Poultry Shelf-Life by Poly (Hexamethylenebiguanide Hydrochloride).

Islam MN(1), Islam NB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, University of Delaware, 
Newark, Delaware 19711.

Immersion of freshly processed poultry carcasses in solutions of poly 
(hexamethylenebiguanide hydrochloride), PHMB, retarded bacterial growth and 
markedly improved the shelf-life during storage at 2 C. Birds treated with 200, 
300, and 400 ppm PHMB had average shelf-lives of 22.9, 25.9, and 26.0 days, 
respectively, compared to the 10.5 days of shelf-life for water-treated 
controls. Duncan's multiple range test revealed that the shelf-life differences 
among PHMB-treated birds were not statistically significant.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028X-42.5.416
PMID: 30812270


63. Plant Dis. 2004 Aug;88(8):910. doi: 10.1094/PDIS.2004.88.8.910A.

First Report of Bacterial Leaf Blight of Coriander Caused by Xanthomonas 
campestris pv. coriandri in Taiwan.

Lee YA(1), Liu YH(1), Liu HL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Fu Jen Catholic University, HsinChuang 24205, 
Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China.
(2)TaiChung District Agricultural Research and Extension Station, Council of 
Agriculture, Executive Yuan, Taiwan, Republic of China.

Leaf blight symptoms on coriander (Coriandrum sativum) were observed during the 
summers of 2000 to 2002 in fields at the Beidou and Sijhou townships, Changhua 
County, Taiwan. Symptoms first appeared as small spots on the lower sides of 
leaves and stems. The centers of the spots quickly turned brown and were 
surrounded by whitish yellow halos. The brown spots and halos enlarged rapidly 
and coalesced into irregular, yellowish or brownish dry dead areas on the leaf. 
V-shaped and chlorotic blotch symptoms were also found at the margins of leaves. 
Isolations from diseased leaves consistently yielded bacterial colonies that 
were yellow and glistening on nutrient and potato dextrose agar media. Five 
representative strains were chosen for further characterization. All strains 
were gram-negative rods, aerobic, and produced yellow, nonwater soluble, 
xanthomonadin pigments identified by thin-layer chromatography (1). The strains 
were positive for catalase and β-galactosidase and negative for oxidase, nitrate 
reductase, urease, and tryptophanase (indole production) and hydrolyzed starch, 
gelatin, and esculin. Hydrogen sulfide was produced from cysteine. L-asparagine 
was not sufficient as a sole carbon source for growth. In Dye's medium C, acids 
were produced from metabolizing arabinose, glucose, and sucrose but not from 
rhamnose, cellobiose, lactose, dulcitol, mannitol, and sorbitol. The bacterium 
was identified as Xanthomonas campestris. Almost complete 16S rDNA sequence of 
strain TC3 (1,502 bp; GenBank Accession No. AY604178) was determined and 
compared with available 16S rDNA sequences in GenBank. The sequence was highly 
identical (99%) to those of Xanthomonas campestris pathovars. Coriander plants 
were inoculated by spraying bacterial suspensions (108 CFU/ml) on leaves, 
enclosed in a plastic bag to maintain high humidity for 2 days, and kept in a 
growth chamber at 28°C. Typical symptoms were observed in 2 to 6 days in all 
four inoculated plants and appeared to be identical to those observed in the 
fields. Control plants were inoculated with sterile distilled water and showed 
no symptoms. The bacterium was readily reisolated from diseased leaves. 
Bacterial leaf blight of coriander was first reported in India, and the pathogen 
was identified as X. campestris pv. coriandri (2). To our knowledge, this is the 
first occurrence of this bacterium on coriander in Taiwan. References: (1) N. W. 
Schaad et al. Laboratory Guide for Identification of Plant Pathogenic Bacteria. 
3rd ed. The American Phytopathological Society, St. Paul, MN, 2001. (2) M. C. 
Srinivasan et al. Proc. Indian Acad. Sci. Sect. B 53:298, 1961.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS.2004.88.8.910A
PMID: 30812538


64. Plant Dis. 2004 May;88(5):557-564. doi: 10.1094/PDIS.2004.88.5.557.

Applying Rice Seed-Associated Antagonistic Bacteria to Manage Rice Sheath Blight 
in Developing Countries.

Mew TW(1), Cottyn B(1), Pamplona R(1), Barrios H(1), Xiangmin L(1), Zhiyi C(2), 
Fan L(2), Nil-Panit N(3), Arunyanart P(3), Van Kim P(4), Van Du P(5).

Author information:
(1)Entomology and Plant Pathology Division, International Rice Research 
Institute, DAPO Box 7777, Metro Manila, Philippines.
(2)Institute of Plant Protection Research, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural 
Sciences, China.
(3)Division of Plant Pathology and Microbiology, Department of Agriculture, 
Thailand.
(4)Cantho University, Cantho, Vietnam.
(5)Cuu Long Rice Research Institute, Omon, Cantho, Vietnam.

One promising area of disease management for resource-poor farmers that emerged 
in recent years in developing countries is the potential of biological control. 
Biological control agents (BCAs) were found to be ubiquitous in the rice 
ecosystem. Seed bacterization with BCAs appeared to promote plant growth. BCAs 
showed efficacy on sheath blight (Rhizoctonia solani AG 1) but produced 
inconsistent results over time in the field using it alone. The control 
efficiency ranged from 50 to over 90%, with a high variance. To improve the 
efficacy, a half-dose of a commonly used fungicide, like Jingangmycin in China 
and Validamycin in Vietnam, was introduced to mix with BCAs and was found to be 
effective, and it reduced the variance of the field performance tests. To scale 
up the BCA technology for resource-poor farmers, a participatory approach, 
engaging the farmers to evaluate the product, was initiated in China and 
Vietnam. The BCA strain that is indigenous at a locality is mass produced at the 
research institution based on the total area required for application, as 
relayed by the farmers to extension workers. The demand by farmers would serve 
as the basis for the amount to be produced and for delivery to the rice farmers 
who were participating in the trials and, later, to those farmers who ordered 
the product. This process alleviates BCA storage and shelf-life problems. Data 
from the field performance trials also were used by the researchers to apply for 
registration for commercial use of BCAs. Scaling up to extend the BCA technology 
to more rice farmers as an integral part of their pest management scheme, in 
particular, and crop management practices, in general, is foreseen in the near 
future.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS.2004.88.5.557
PMID: 30812664


65. Plant Dis. 2003 Oct;87(10):1244-1249. doi: 10.1094/PDIS.2003.87.10.1244.

Effects of Rate and Time of Application of Poultry Litter on Hoplolaimus 
columbus on Cotton.

Koenning SR(1), Edmisten KL(2), Barker KR(1), Bowman DT(3), Morrison DE(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Pathology.
(2)Department of Crop Science.
(3)Department of Crop Science, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, North 
Carolina State University, Raleigh 27695.
(4)North Carolina Cooperative Extension Service, Laurinburg 28352.

Field experiments were conducted to evaluate the effect of soil-incorporated 
poultry litter on the population dynamics of Hoplolaimus columbus and cotton 
lint yield. Rates of poultry litter applied varied from 0.0 to 27.0 t/ha and 
were applied in December, February, or March. Time of application did not 
influence population densities of this nematode or cotton yield. The rate of 
poultry litter applied was negatively related to the population density of H. 
columbus at midseason, but not at other sampling dates. The lower midseason 
levels of this nematode corresponded with increases in cotton lint yield in all 
experiments. Cotton yield increases generally were linear with respect to the 
rate of litter applied, although the highest rates of litter applied did not 
always result in the greatest cotton yield. Poultry litter can be used 
effectively to supply nutrients to the crop and suppress damaging levels of H. 
columbus. Optimal rates of litter application were from 6.0 to 13.4 t/ha. 
Application of poultry litter at these rates, however, may exceed nutrient 
levels required for best management practices.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS.2003.87.10.1244
PMID: 30812729


66. Plant Dis. 2003 Mar;87(3):259-262. doi: 10.1094/PDIS.2003.87.3.259.

Effects of Pecan Bacterial Leaf Scorch on Growth and Yield Components of 
Cultivar Cape Fear.

Sanderlin RS(1), Heyderich-Alger KI(1).

Author information:
(1)Louisiana State University Agricultural Center, Pecan Research-Extension 
Station, Shreveport 71135.

Pecan bacterial leaf scorch (PBLS) recently was recognized to be caused by the 
bacterium Xylella fastidiosa. The objective of this work was to compare certain 
tree growth and yield components of trees with and without PBLS. The evaluations 
were made for 3 years (1999 to 2001) on the disease-sensitive cv. Cape Fear. At 
nut maturity (October) each year, the number of leaves and leaflets and the 
leaflet weight were significantly smaller on terminals from trees with leaf 
scorch than on terminals from trees not infected with X. fastidiosa. Similar 
amounts of defoliation occurred on bearing and nonbearing terminals. The 
symptomatic terminals averaged 58% fewer leaflets at the end of the growing 
season. The weight of terminals from diseased trees was significantly lower in 2 
of the 3 years for nonbearing terminals compared with similar terminals from 
uninfected trees. Terminals of infected trees generally were not significantly 
shorter than terminals of uninfected trees. The weight of the nuts from 
terminals with leaf scorch was lower than the weight from uninfected trees each 
year. The primary effect was on kernel development, which averaged 16% lower 
weight. Phosphorus concentration was slightly but significantly lower in 
infected leaflets during October in three of six comparisons. There were no 
other consistent differences in the concentration of nine other elements in 
leaflets between diseased and uninfected terminals. PBLS is capable of causing 
economically significant yield reductions. Because the disease is chronic, the 
potential yield reduction over the life of a tree is large on disease-sensitive 
trees.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS.2003.87.3.259
PMID: 30812757


67. Plant Dis. 2003 Jun;87(6):726-731. doi: 10.1094/PDIS.2003.87.6.726.

Evaluation of Virulence to Adlays of Korean Isolates of Bipolaris coicis Using a 
Disease Rating Scale.

Chang SW(1), Hwang BK(2).

Author information:
(1)Northern Agricultural Research Station, Gyeonggido Agricultural Research and 
Extension Services, Yonchon 486-833, Korea.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular Plant Pathology, College of Life and Environmental 
Sciences, Korea University, Seoul 136-701, Korea.

The virulence of 33 isolates of Bipolaris coicis from diverse geographic origins 
in Korea was evaluated on six adlay cultivars or lines under controlled 
environmental conditions. To evaluate infection levels of B. coicis isolates in 
adlay plants, a 10-class disease rating scale was developed based on the 
qualitative and quantitative differences of lesions on adlay leaves infected. 
There were significant differences in virulence among isolates of B. coicis, 
although the differences were quantitative rather than qualitative. Significant 
differences also were observed among cultivar-isolate interactions in the 
analysis of variance. All isolates of B. coicis, except KG-9515, were pathogenic 
on adlay plants. BC-20136, the most virulent isolate, was capable of causing 
highly susceptible reactions on the adlay cultivars or lines. Significant 
differences in levels of resistance were found among six adlay cultivars or 
lines tested. The disease rating scale may be a reliable criterion to evaluate a 
large number of adlays for resistance to leaf blight or B. coicis isolates for 
virulence to adlays.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS.2003.87.6.726
PMID: 30812867


68. Plant Dis. 2003 Jul;87(7):821-826. doi: 10.1094/PDIS.2003.87.7.821.

Effects of Plant Age, Leaf Position, Inoculum Density, and Wetness Period on 
Bipolaris coicis Infection in Adlays of Differing Resistance.

Chang SW(1), Hwang BK(2).

Author information:
(1)Northern Agricultural Research Station, Kyeonggido Agricultural Research and 
Extension Services, Yonchon 486-833, Korea.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular Plant Pathology, College of Life and Environmental 
Sciences, Korea University, Seoul 136-701, Korea.

The effects of plant age, leaf position, inoculum density, and wetness period on 
the development of adlay leaf blight caused by Bipolaris coicis were evaluated 
using six adlay cultivars or lines of differing resistance in field plots and in 
the greenhouse. Levels of resistance to leaf blight among the six cultivars or 
lines were consistent between the 1998 and 1999 field experiments. With the 
aging of adlay plants, leaf blight development gradually increased in all 
cultivars or lines tested. Leaf blight severity was significantly greater on the 
lower (older) leaves than on the upper (younger) leaves. As inoculum density 
increased from 103 to 106 conidia per ml, the development of leaf blight 
increased. Disease severity also increased as the time of leaf wetness duration 
increased from 0 to 60 h. Wetness duration above 48 h and a high inoculum 
density at 106 conidia per ml caused severe leaf blight symptoms in adlay 
seedlings. The data from the greenhouse experiments consistently revealed the 
same trends in relative levels of susceptibility of adlay cultivars to leaf 
blight as those seen at late plant growth stages under field conditions.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS.2003.87.7.821
PMID: 30812893


69. Pharmaceutics. 2019 Feb 26;11(3):101. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics11030101.

Neuronanomedicine: An Up-to-Date Overview.

Teleanu DM(1), Chircov C(2)(3), Grumezescu AM(4)(5), Teleanu RI(6).

Author information:
(1)Emergency University Hospital, "Carol Davila" University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, 050474 Bucharest, Romania. daniel.teleanu@umfcd.ro.
(2)Faculty of Engineering in Foreign Languages, University Politehnica of 
Bucharest, 060042 Bucharest, Romania. cristina.chircov@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Science and Engineering of Oxide Materials and Nanomaterials, 
Faculty of Applied Chemistry and Materials Science, Politehnica University of 
Bucharest, 060042Bucharest, Romania. cristina.chircov@yahoo.com.
(4)Department of Science and Engineering of Oxide Materials and Nanomaterials, 
Faculty of Applied Chemistry and Materials Science, Politehnica University of 
Bucharest, 060042Bucharest, Romania. grumezescu@yahoo.com.
(5)ICUB-Research Institute of University of Bucharest, University of Bucharest, 
36-46 M. Kogalniceanu Blvd., 050107 Bucharest, Romania. grumezescu@yahoo.com.
(6)"Dr. Victor Gomoiu" Clinical Children's Hospital, "Carol Davila" University 
of Medicine and Pharmacy, 050474 Bucharest, Romania. raluca.teleanu@umfcd.ro.

The field of neuronanomedicine has recently emerged as the bridge between 
neurological sciences and nanotechnology. The possibilities of this novel 
perspective are promising for the diagnosis and treatment strategies of severe 
central nervous system disorders. Therefore, the development of nano-vehicles 
capable of permeating the blood⁻brain barrier (BBB) and reaching the brain 
parenchyma may lead to breakthrough therapies that could improve life expectancy 
and quality of the patients diagnosed with brain disorders. The aim of this 
review is to summarize the recently developed organic, inorganic, and biological 
nanocarriers that could be used for the delivery of imaging and therapeutic 
agents to the brain, as well as the latest studies on the use of nanomaterials 
in brain cancer, neurodegenerative diseases, and stroke. Additionally, the main 
challenges and limitations associated with the use of these nanocarriers are 
briefly presented.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics11030101
PMCID: PMC6471564
PMID: 30813646

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


70. Clin Rehabil. 2019 Jul;33(7):1139-1149. doi: 10.1177/0269215519832942. Epub
2019  Feb 27.

Evaluation of a breathing retraining intervention to improve quality of life in 
asthma: quantitative process analysis of the BREATHE randomized controlled 
trial.

Arden-Close EJ(1), Kirby SE(2), Yardley L(2)(3), Bruton A(4), Ainsworth 
B(2)(5)(6), Thomas DM(5).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Psychology, Bournemouth University, Poole, UK.
(2)2 Academic Unit of Psychology, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(3)3 School of Experimental Psychology, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(4)4 Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(5)5 Primary Care and Population Sciences, University of Southampton, 
Southampton, UK.
(6)6 Department of Psychology, University of Bath, Bath, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Explore qualitative differences between interventions (DVD and 
booklet (DVDB) versus face-to-face and booklet (F2FB) versus usual care) in the 
BREATHE (Breathing Retraining for Asthma Trial of Home Exercises) trial of 
breathing retraining for asthma.
DESIGN: Quantitative process analysis exploring group expectancy, experience and 
practice before and after intervention delivery for the main trial.
SETTING: Primary care.
SUBJECTS: Adults with asthma (DVD and booklet, n = 261; F2FB, n = 132).
MAIN MEASURES: Baseline - expectancy about breathing retraining; follow-up 3, 6 
and 12 months - self-efficacy, treatment experience (enjoyment of treatment, 
perceptions of physiotherapist, perceptions of barriers), amount of practice 
(weeks, days/week, times/day), continued practice; all time points - anxiety 
(Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale), AQLQ (Asthma Quality of Life 
Questionnaire).
RESULTS: No group differences in baseline expectancy. Statistically significant 
results (P < 0.05) indicated that at follow-up, F2FB participants perceived 
greater need for a physiotherapist than DVD and booklet participants (3.43 
(0.87) versus 2.15 (1.26)). F2FB participants reported greater enjoyment of core 
techniques (such as stomach breathing: 7.42 (1.67) versus 6.13 (1.99) (DVD and 
booklet)). Fewer F2FB participants reported problems due to doubts (24 (22.9%) 
versus 90 (54.2%)). F2FB participants completed more practice sessions (75.01 
(46.38) versus 48.56 (44.71)). Amount of practice was not significantly related 
to quality of life. In the DVD and booklet arm, greater confidence in breathing 
retraining ability explained 3.9% of variance in quality of life at 12 months.
CONCLUSION: Adults with asthma receiving breathing retraining face-to-face 
report greater enjoyment and undertaking more practice than those receiving a 
DVD and booklet. Greater confidence in ability to do breathing retraining is 
associated with improved QoL.

DOI: 10.1177/0269215519832942
PMID: 30813767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Hand (N Y). 2020 Nov;15(6):842-849. doi: 10.1177/1558944719831341. Epub 2019
Feb  27.

A Biomechanical Comparison of Fiberglass Casts and 3-Dimensional-Printed, 
Open-Latticed, Ventilated Casts.

Hoogervorst P(1), Knox R(1), Tanaka K(1), Working ZM(1), El Naga AN(1), Herfat 
S(1)(2), Lee N(1).

Author information:
(1)UCSF/ZSFG Orthopaedic Trauma Institute, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(2)Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) Foundation, Paris, France.

Background: The aim of this study was to quantify the stabilizing properties of 
a 3-dimensional (3D)-printed short-arm cast and compare those properties with 
traditional fiberglass casts in a cadaveric subacute distal radius fracture 
model. Methods: A cadaveric subacute fracture model was created in 8 pairs of 
forearms. The specimens were equally allocated to a fiberglass cast or 
3D-printed cast group. All specimens were subjected to 3 biomechanical testing 
modalities simulating daily life use: flexion and extension of digits, pronation 
and supination of the hand, and 3-point bending. Between each loading modality, 
radiological evaluation of the specimens was performed to evaluate possible 
interval displacement. Interfragmentary motion was quantified using a 3D 
motion-tracking system. Results: Radiographic assessment did not reveal 
statistically significant differences in radiographic parameters between the 2 
groups before and after biomechanical testing. A statistically significant 
difference in interfragmentary motion was calculated with the 3-point bending 
test, with a mean difference of 0.44 (±0.48) mm of motion. Conclusions: A 
statistically significant difference in interfragmentary motion between the 2 
