steadily all over the world. The extending life expectancy at older ages in the 
combination with the resulting demographic disproportions have widespread 
repercussions on the older generation because they are associated with the 
increase of the negative social trends as exemplified by a case of suicide of 
the 89 year-old man A who had for a long time suffered from an oncological 
disease and was entirely dependent upon the assistance from other people. The 
authors emphasize that the most important factors responsible for the currently 
enhanced frequency of suicidal attempts among the elderly persons include the 
life below the poverty line, permanent stress, poor housing conditions, family 
conflicts, the ever increasing prevalence of somato-neurological and psychic 
pathologies, etc. The comprehensive forensic medical and socio-hygienic analysis 
of all cases of suicide and numerous relevant risk factors may be instrumental 
in the systematization of the statistical information on the nosological forms 
of specific pathologies, and the development of the adequate measures for the 
prevention of the deviant behaviour among the old-age subjects at the regional 
level. Such analysis may contribute to the reduction of the mortality among the 
populations of the advanced age especially in the high-risk groups including the 
elderly people.

Publisher: Показатели самоубийств являются косвенным признаком социального 
благополучия при любом общественном строе. Особенно остро проблема самоубийств 
касается пожилых людей, число которых во всем мире неуклонно растет. Увеличение 
продолжительности жизни и геронтологическая демографическая диспропорция имеют 
серьезные последствия для людей старшего поколения, так как сопровождаются 
усилением негативных социальных тенденций. В качестве примера рассмотрен случай 
самоубийства гр-на А., 89 лет, длительное время страдавшего онкологическим 
заболеванием и полностью зависимым от других людей. Авторы обращают внимание на 
то, что важными факторами риска, способствующими совершению самоубийств пожилыми 
людьми, являются жизнь за чертой бедности, хронический стресс, стесненность 
жилищных условий, конфликтные отношения в семье, накопление 
соматоневрологической и психической патологии и т.д. Все это способствует 
возникновению сложной конфликтной среды, в которой пожилые люди становятся 
жертвами. Комплексный судебно-медицинский и социально-гигиенический анализ 
случаев самоубийств и многочисленных факторов риска позволяет усовершенствовать 
статистические данные по нозологическим формам выявленной патологии, разработать 
меры по профилактике девиантного поведения лиц преклонного возраста на 
региональном уровне и повлиять на смертность, особенно в группах риска, к 
которым относятся пожилые люди.

DOI: 10.17116/sudmed20196201146
PMID: 30724894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Rev Med Chil. 2018 Dec;146(10):1215-1219. doi:
10.4067/S0034-98872018001001215.

[Liver transplantation in a patient with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). 
Case report].

[Article in Spanish]

Guerra JF(1), Troncoso A(2), Ceballos ME(3), Arrese M(1), Barrera F(1), Norero 
B(1), Soza A(1), Rivas V(4), Wolff R(1), Arias A(1), Cancino A(1), Torres J(5), 
Briceño E(1), Jarufe N(1), Martínez J(1), Benítez C(1).

Author information:
(1)Programa Trasplante Hepático, Hospital Clínico, Pontificia Universidad 
Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(2)Departamento de Cirugía Digestiva, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, 
Santiago, Chile.
(3)Departamento de Enfermedades Infecciosas del Adulto, Pontificia Universidad 
Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(4)Departamento de Gastroenterología, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, 
Santiago, Chile.
(5)Departamento de Anatomía Patológica, Pontificia Universidad Católica de 
Chile, Santiago, Chile.

Abstrac: Before the advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), 
patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) were considered as 
having an absolute contraindication for liver transplantation (LT). Considering 
the increased life expectancy in HIV positive patients under HAART and the 
improvements in the management of graft recipients, these patients are now 
suitable for carrying out transplants in selected cases. We report a 26 years 
old HIV positive male who developed acute liver failure possibly caused by drug 
induced liver injury who underwent a successful liver transplantation.

DOI: 10.4067/S0034-98872018001001215
PMID: 30724988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Rev Med Chil. 2018 Sep;146(9):1079-1084. doi:
10.4067/s0034-98872018000901079.

[Neuropathy and Fabry's disease. Report of five cases].

[Article in Spanish]

Jara P(1), Matamala JM(1), Verdugo R(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Neurología y Psiquiatría, Clínica Alemana de Santiago, 
Universidad del Desarrollo, Santiago, Chile.

Fabry's disease is an X-linked multisistemic lisosomal storage disorder caused 
by deficiency or absence in α-Galatosidase A. Symptoms develop early in 
childhood with small fiber neuropathy, autonomic disorders and skin lesions 
(angiokeratomas). More severe in males, patients develop over years heart 
disease (hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, bradycardia), proteinuria, renal failure, 
transient ischemic attacks and stroke, associated with decreased life 
expectancy. We report five patients with Fabry's disease aged between 21 to 56 
years and with family history. Neuropathic symptoms are described and 
neurophysiological testing findings of nerve conduction studies, quantitative 
sensory testing, autonomic testing and sympathetic skin response are presented.

DOI: 10.4067/s0034-98872018000901079
PMID: 30725032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Rev Med Chil. 2018 Sep;146(9):1087-1088. doi:
10.4067/s0034-98872018000901087.

[More than 100 g of alcohol consumption a week increases the risk of 
cardiovascular diseases and decreases life expectancy].

[Article in Spanish]

Martínez MA(1), Leiva AM(2), Petermann-Rocha F(3), Garrido A(4), Celis-Morales 
C(5).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Farmacia, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad Austral de Chile, 
Valdivia, Chile.
(2)Instituto de Anatomía, Histología y Patología, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad Austral de Chile, Valdivia, Chile.
(3)Institute of Health and Wellbeing, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, United 
Kingdom.
(4)Escuela de Educación Física, Universidad San Sebastián, Concepción, Chile.
(5)BHF Glasgow Cardiovascular Research Centre, Institute of Cardiovascular and 
Medical Science, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom.

DOI: 10.4067/s0034-98872018000901087
PMID: 30725035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Oper Orthop Traumatol. 2019 Apr;31(2):115-126. doi:
10.1007/s00064-019-0588-6.  Epub 2019 Feb 6.

[Endoprosthetic replacement of the proximal humerus in revision shoulder 
arthroplasty].

[Article in German]

Friedrich M(1), Cucchi D(2), Walter S(2), Gravius S(2), Wirtz DC(2), Schmolders 
J(2).

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Orthopädie und Unfallchirurgie, Rheinische 
Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität Bonn, Sigmund-Freud-Straße 25, 53105, Bonn, 
Deutschland. max.friedrich@ukbonn.de.
(2)Klinik und Poliklinik für Orthopädie und Unfallchirurgie, Rheinische 
Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität Bonn, Sigmund-Freud-Straße 25, 53105, Bonn, 
Deutschland.

OBJECTIVE: Reconstruction of proximal humeral bone defects in the setting of 
shoulder revision arthroplasty by implantation of a modular humeral component.
INDICATIONS: Severe segmental humeral bone defects in revision total shoulder 
arthroplasty, after tumor resection, trauma, pathological fractures, 
post-infectious or after failed osteosynthesis.
CONTRAINDICATIONS: Acute or chronic local infections, large diaphyseal bone 
defects preventing adequate anchorage of the prosthesis, very short life 
expectancy (<3 months).
SURGICAL TECHNIQUE: Removal of the implant using an extended deltopectoral 
approach. Periarticular arthrolysis with preservation of neurovascular 
structures. Resection of the meta-diaphyseal bone and reconstruction of the 
humeral length with the help of different extension sleeves and a modular 
humeral component. Soft tissue management is crucial, especially with reverse 
shoulder arthroplasty.
POSTOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT: Three weeks postoperatively immobilization in 
a shoulder sling, active assisted movement therapy by gradual pain-adapted 
increase of movement, muscle coordination, and strength.
RESULTS: The results of 11 consecutive patients treated with a modular humeral 
component due to a failed shoulder arthroplasty between 2008 and 2016 were 
evaluated retrospectively. Mean length of reconstruction was 100 mm. Due to 
recurrent dislocations one patient required revision and conversion to a reverse 
component. No cases of aseptic loosening or periprosthetic infection were 
observed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00064-019-0588-6
PMID: 30725115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Eur J Health Econ. 2019 Jul;20(5):703-713. doi: 10.1007/s10198-019-01034-5.
Epub  2019 Feb 6.

Cost-effectiveness of antidepressants versus active monitoring for 
mild-to-moderate major depressive disorder: a multisite 
non-randomized-controlled trial in primary care (INFAP study).

Rubio-Valera M(1)(2)(3), Peñarrubia-María MT(4), Iglesias-González M(5), Knapp 
M(6)(7), McCrone P(8), Roig M(5)(9), Sabes-Figuera R(6)(10), Luciano 
JV(5)(11)(12), Mendive JM(11)(13), Murrugara-Centurión AG(5)(11), Alonso 
J(6)(14)(15), Serrano-Blanco A(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Research and Development Unit, Parc Sanitari Sant Joan de Déu, C/ Pablo 
Picasso 12, 08830, Sant Boi de Llobregat, Spain. mrubio@pssjd.org.
(2)Centre for Biomedical Research in Epidemiology and Public Health, CIBERESP, 
Madrid, Spain. mrubio@pssjd.org.
(3)Department Pharmacology, Toxicology and Therapeutic Chemistry, School of 
Pharmacy, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. mrubio@pssjd.org.
(4)Primary Care Health Centre Bartomeu Fabrés Anglada, Servei d'Atenció Primària 
Delta Llobregat, Àmbit Costa de Ponent, Institut Català de la Salut, Gavà, 
Spain.
(5)Research and Development Unit, Parc Sanitari Sant Joan de Déu, C/ Pablo 
Picasso 12, 08830, Sant Boi de Llobregat, Spain.
(6)Centre for Biomedical Research in Epidemiology and Public Health, CIBERESP, 
Madrid, Spain.
(7)Personal Social Services Research Unit, London School of Economics and 
Political Science, Houghton Street, London, UK.
(8)Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, De Crespigny Park, London, 
UK.
(9)Department Pharmacology, Toxicology and Therapeutic Chemistry, School of 
Pharmacy, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(10)Faculty of Economic and Business Sciences, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(11)Primary Care Prevention and Health Promotion Research Network (RedIAPP), 
Barcelona, Spain.
(12)Open University of Catalonia (UOC), Barcelona, Spain.
(13)La Mina Primary Care Centre, Institut Català de la Salut, Sant Adrià de 
Besós, Barcelona, Spain.
(14)Health Services Research Unit, IMIM-Hospital del Mar Medical Research 
Institute, Barcelona, Spain.
(15)Department Experimental and Health Sciences, Pompeu Fabra University (UPF), 
Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
antidepressants vs active monitoring (AM) for patients with mild-moderate major 
depressive disorder.
METHODS: This was a 12-month observational prospective controlled trial. Adult 
patients with a new episode of major depression were invited to participate and 
assigned to AM or antidepressants according to General Practitioners' clinical 
judgment and experience. Patients were evaluated at baseline, and 6 and 12-month 
follow-up. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained were estimated and used to 
calculate incremental cost-utility ratios (ICUR) from the healthcare and 
government perspective. To minimize the bias resulting from non-randomization, a 
propensity score-based method was used.
RESULTS: At 6 and 12-month follow-up, ICUR was 2549 €/QALY and 6,142 €/QALY, 
respectively, in favor of antidepressants. At 6 months, for a willingness to pay 
(WTP) of 25,000 €/QALY, antidepressants had a probability of 0.89 (healthcare 
perspective) and 0.81 (government perspective) of being more cost-effective than 
AM. At 12 months, this probability was 0.86 (healthcare perspective) and 0.73 
(government perspective).
CONCLUSIONS: Incremental cost-utility ratios favor pharmacological treatment as 
a first-line approach for patients with mild-moderate major depressive disorder. 
While our results should be interpreted with caution and further real world 
research is needed, clinical practice guidelines should consider antidepressant 
therapy for mild-moderate major depressive patients as an alternative to active 
monitoring in PC.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-019-01034-5
PMID: 30725226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Methods Mol Biol. 2019;1866:263-266. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-8796-2_19.

Methionine Restriction and Life-Span Extension.

Hoffman RM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)AntiCancer, Inc., San Diego, CA, USA. all@anticancer.com.
(2)Department of Surgery, University of California, San Diego, CA, USA. 
all@anticancer.com.

It has been known for almost a century that caloric restriction can extend the 
life span of rodents and many other types of animals. Approximately 25 years 
ago, it was found that a methionine-restricted (MR) diet could replace a 
caloric-restricted diet with the result of extending the life span of animals. 
This chapter summarizes the effects of MR on the reversal of diabetes, obesity, 
and other aspects of the metabolic syndrome, as well as extending the normal 
life span. The most effective way to restrict methionine in the body, using 
orally-delivered methioninase, is also explored.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-8796-2_19
PMID: 30725421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Australas Phys Eng Sci Med. 2019 Mar;42(1):201-209. doi: 
10.1007/s13246-019-00731-y. Epub 2019 Feb 6.

Second malignant neoplasm risk after craniospinal irradiation in X-ray-based 
techniques compared to proton therapy.

Sakthivel V(1)(2), Ganesh KM(2)(3), McKenzie C(4)(5), Boopathy R(1), Selvaraj 
J(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Advanced Medical Physics, Houston, USA.
(2)Research and Development Centre, Bharathiar University, Coimbatore, India.
(3)Department of Radiation Physics, Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, 
Bengaluru, India.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Miami Cancer Institute, Miami, USA.
(5)RaySearch Laboratories, New York, USA.
(6)Medical Physics & Radiation Engineering, Canberra Hospital, Garran, ACT, 
Australia. Jothy.Selvaraj@act.gov.au.
(7)South West Clinical School, University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia. 
Jothy.Selvaraj@act.gov.au.

Cranio-spinal irradiation (CSI) is widely used for treating medulloblastoma 
cases in children. Radiation-induced second malignancy is of grave concern; 
especially in children due to their long-life expectancy and higher 
radiosensitivity of tissues at young age. Several techniques can be employed for 
CSI including 3DCRT, IMRT, VMAT and tomotherapy. However, these techniques are 
associated with higher risk of second malignancy due to the physical 
characteristics of photon irradiation which deliver moderately higher doses to 
normal tissues. On the other hand, proton beam therapy delivers substantially 
lesser dose to normal tissues due to the sharp dose fall off beyond Bragg peak 
compared to photon therapy. The aim of this work is to quantify the relative 
decrease in the risk with proton therapy compared to other photon treatments for 
CSI. Ten anonymized patient DICOM datasets treated previously were selected for 
this study. 3DCRT, IMRT, VMAT, tomotherapy and proton therapy with pencil beam 
scanning (PBS) plans were generated. The prescription dose was 36 Gy in 20 
fractions. PBS was chosen due to substantially lesser neutron dose compared to 
passive scattering. The age of the patients ranged from 3 to 12 with a median 
age of eight with six male and four female patients. Commonly used linear and a 
mechanistic doseresponse models (DRM) were used for the analyses. Dose-volume 
histograms (DVH) were calculated for critical structures to calculate organ 
equivalent doses (OED) to obtain excess absolute risk (EAR), life-time 
attributable risk (LAR) and other risk relevant parameters. A α' value of 
0.018 Gy-1 and a repopulation factor R of 0.93 was used in the mechanistic model 
for carcinoma induction. Gender specific correction factor of 0.17 and - 0.17 
for females and males were used for the EAR calculation. The relative integral 
dose of all critical structures averaged were 6.3, 4.8, 4.5 and 4.7 times higher 
in 3DCRT, IMRT, VMAT and tomotherapy respectively compared to proton therapy. 
The mean relative LAR calculated from the mean EAR of all organs with linear DRM 
were 4.0, 2.9, 2.9, 2.7 higher for male and 4.0, 2.9, 2.8 and 2.7 times higher 
for female patients compared to proton therapy. The same values with the 
mechanistic model were 2.2, 3.6, 3.2, 3.8 and 2.2, 3.5, 3.2, 3.8 times higher 
compared to proton therapy for male and female patients respectively. All 
critical structures except lungs and kidneys considered in this study had a 
substantially lower OED in proton plans. Risk of radiation-induced second 
malignancy in Proton PBS compared to conventional photon treatments were up to 
three and four times lesser for male and female patients respectively with the 
linear DRM. Using the mechanistic DRM these were up to two and three times 
lesser in proton plans for male and female patients respectively.

DOI: 10.1007/s13246-019-00731-y
PMID: 30725439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. J Popul Ther Clin Pharmacol. 2018 Aug 7;25(2):e12-e22. doi: 
10.22374/1710-6222.25.2.2.

Activities of the pan-Canadian Pharmaceutical Alliance: An Observational 
Analysis.

Rocchi A(1), Mills F.

Author information:
(1)Athena Research. angela@athenaresearch.ca.

BACKGROUND: The pan-Canadian Pharmaceutical Alliance (pCPA) was established in 
2010 to negotiate confidential prices for drugs coming forward from Canada's 
centralized health technology assessment (HTA) agency reviews, on behalf of the 
participating public drug plans.
OBJECTIVE:  To analyze the activities of the pCPA, to determine: alignment of 
HTA agency recommendations and pCPA negotiation decisions; the role of health 
economics in pCPA activities; and patterns of implicit prioritization.
METHODS: The analysis was based on the archive of drugs handled through the 
pCPA, as posted on its website. The period of observation was from inception to 
August 31, 2017. HTA recommendations were sourced from the websites of the 
Common Drug Review (CDR) and the pan-Canadian Oncology Drug Review. Descriptive 
and statistical analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: The dataset contained 206 drug-indication pairings. There was close but 
imperfect alignment between HTA agency recommendations and the pCPA's decisions 
to negotiate; deviations occurred only with CDR-reviewed drugs. The median 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of negotiated drugs was $168K/QALY for 
oncology drugs, but $70K/QALY for non-oncology drugs. The time to initiate 
negotiations was dramatically shorter for oncology versus non-oncology drugs 
(mean 54 versus 263 days), and also differed between therapeutic areas at CDR. 
The time required for PCPA activity was surprisingly similar for drugs 
recommended without a price condition and for those conditional on a price 
reduction.
CONCLUSION: These findings revealed a strong alignment between HTA 
recommendations and pCPA negotiations, an implicit prioritization favouring 
oncology drug negotiations, and an evolving role for health economics in 
Canada's reimbursement process.

DOI: 10.22374/1710-6222.25.2.2
PMID: 30725539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Distal Radius Fractures.

Corsino CB(1), Reeves RA(2), Sieg RN(1).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Aug 8.

Author information:
(1)Carl R. Darnall Army Medical Center
(2)Thomas Jefferson University

Emergency Department and primary care clinics are frequently called on to 
evaluate orthopedic complaints. It is essential for most providers to feel 
confident in the management of fundamental orthopedic problems. Fractures 
involving the distal radius (DR) of the forearm are common. The incidence of 
radial fractures is increasing as life expectancy grows, leading to a larger 
population of patients who are at risk for these injuries. Distal radial 
fractures are seen predominantly in children/adolescents and the elderly. 
Fracture patterns, management, and complications differ between these age 
groups. It is crucial for providers to understand these distinctions, to know 
which fracture patterns are emergent, and to refer for further management in an 
appropriate time frame. Providers must have an understanding of forearm and 
wrist anatomy, and the recommendation here is that that readers review this 
topic in conjunction with this article. This chapter will review the 
epidemiology/etiology, as well as the eponymous fractures, management, and 
complications of distal radial fractures.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 30725601

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Carlin Corsino declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Russell Reeves 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. 
Disclosure: Ryan Sieg declares no relevant financial relationships with 
ineligible companies.


812. Heart Transplantation Patient Selection.

Brown KN(1), Abraham J(2), Ashline PT(3), Kanmanthareddy A(4).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Nov 14.

Author information:
(1)Augusta University
(2)Unity Health-White County Medical Center
(3)University of Illinois Champaign, IL
(4)University of Texas Houston

Heart failure (HF) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the United 
States and worldwide. It is only second to pancreatic cancer with the shortest 
life expectancy. It plagues millions of people every year. Currently, over 5 
million people have an HF diagnosis, and that number is only expected to rise in 
the future. Advanced heart failure or stage D disease affects >10% of the heart 
failure population. In the most advanced phase of heart failure, heart 
transplantation (HT) is the only means of improving the quality of life and 
survival in these patients. Unfortunately, not all patients who need a heart 
transplant meet criteria to receive a heart transplant. This chapter will cover 
in detail patient selection for a heart transplant including indications, 
contraindications, medical professionals required to assess patient selection, 
preparation, and clinical significance. 

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 30725775

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Kristen Brown declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Joseph Abraham 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. 
Disclosure: Peter Ashline declares no relevant financial relationships with 
ineligible companies. Disclosure: Arun Kanmanthareddy declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies.


813. Aortic Valve Replacement.

Rajput FA(1), Zeltser R(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 May 29.

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin - Madison
(2)Hofstra Northwell School of Medicine

The aortic valve is a semilunar valve with three leaflets, which lies at the 
junction of left ventricle and aorta. It allows unidirectional blood flow from 
the left ventricle to the aorta and the rest of the body. Because of the highly 
complex and sophisticated cellular and molecular functions, the thin valve 
leaflet can withstand extreme mechanical and hemodynamic forces with every 
cardiac cycle. Various factors including age and congenital defects can 
compromise the normal valvular function leading to a wide variety of 
complications. Although bicuspid aortic valves (BAV) are the most common 
congenital abnormality, congenital valve defects can range from aortic atresia 
(missing or incomplete closure of aortic valves) to a sub or supra-valvular 
stenosis. BAV is reported to have an incidence of 1 to 2% with a male 
predominance. Lack of microfibrillar proteins during valvulogenesis has been 
reported to affect the leaflet development where two leaflets are fused to form 
one large leaflet. It frequently correlates with aortic abnormalities such as 
aortic dilation (root, ascending and arch) and coarctation of the aorta. The 
bicuspid aortic valve leaflets can undergo accelerated calcific degeneration 
because of abnormal hemodynamic forces. Congenital abnormalities including BAV 
can lead to various valvular complications including aortic stenosis and aortic 
regurgitation leading to an increased risk to infective endocarditis, which has 
a reported incidence of 12 to 39% in BAV. Unless severe, BAV generally remains 
asymptomatic until the age of 50 to 60 years. Aortic stenosis (AS) is a 
narrowing of the valve aperture reducing the aortic valve area. Increased 
resistance to blood flow and transvalvular pressure gradient causes increased 
left ventricle workload causing hypertrophy. Its prevalence increases with age 
and can be as high as 4.6% in people greater than age 75 years. Being the most 
common valvular disease in Europe and America, estimates are that 3.5 million 
people in England alone will have AS by the year 2020. Calcific degeneration 
leading to stiffening and restriction motion of valve leaflet is the most common 
cause of AS. Disruption of endothelium lining on the aortic side caused by 
increased mechanical stress seem to be the inciting event. Posterior leaflets 
are reported to be affected the most. Rheumatic fever causing inflammation of 
the leaflets is still the leading cause of AS in developing countries. AS can be 
asymptomatic or can cause symptoms of syncope, angina and heart failure. Severe 
AS is fatal with a 50% mortality at 2 years. As per The American College of 
Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) guidelines, AS is graded severe 
when the orifice area is less than 1.0 cm, the mean gradient is greater than 
40 mmHg or the jet velocity is greater than 4 m/s. Prognosis is poor in 
symptomatic or severe cases unless the valve is replaced. Up to 30% of patients 
aged > 75 do not undergo surgical valve replacement either because of technical 
reasons; this may include porcelain aorta, general frailty, refusal to undergo 
surgery, and serious comorbid conditions. The operative death risk for surgical 
aortic valve replacement (SAVR) is as high as 10% in patients with LV 
dysfunction, chronic renal disease, and advanced age. Trans-catheter aortic 
valve replacement and trans-catheter aortic valve implantation (TAVR/TAVI) have 
emerged as a more feasible and less risky option for patients not suitable for 
surgery. Aortic regurgitation (AR) is the backflow of blood from the aorta to 
the left ventricle when the valve leaflets fail to coapt. Common causes include 
congenital defects, calcific degeneration, infective endocarditis, rheumatic 
fever, and trauma. Ventricular hypertrophy in chronic cases accommodates 
increased volume to maintain the normal stroke volume and end-diastolic 
pressure; hence, chronic AR can be asymptomatic for decades. In contrast, with 
acute cases of AR, ventricles do not have enough time to undergo the needed 
changes such as hypertrophy to accommodate increased volumes. Because of 
decreased stroke volume, the heart rate increases to maintain cardiac output 
but is insufficient to meet the demand resulting in increased left atrial 
pressure, pulmonary edema and cardiogenic shock. On physical examination, AR 
murmur is blowing, high-pitched, diastolic, and decrescendo, beginning soon 
after the aortic component of S (A); it is loudest at the 3rd or 4th left 
parasternal intercostal space. It also has associations with various other 
murmurs including: “Mid-systolic murmur” because of rapid ejection of an 
overload of blood from the left ventricle, “Austin Flint” murmur is mid-to-late 
diastolic murmur due to partial closure of mitral valve during ventricular 
systole because of regurgitant flow from aortic valve, “Cole-Cecil” is a 
diastolic murmur due to the fusion of an aortic murmur with the S3 because of 
simultaneous filling of the left ventricle from left atrium and AR. History of 
Valvular Surgery Dr. Theodore Tuffier, in 1912, used his finger to free the 
fused leaflets of a stenosed aortic valve. Before the advent of cardiopulmonary 
bypass (CPB), mitral valve repair involved commissurotomy through access from 
the left atrial chamber. Thomas Homes Sellors performed first pulmonary 
valvulotomy in 1948 by using a tenotomy knife. Charles Hufnagel developed the 
first artificial valve based on a reciprocating ball and cage. It was used to 
prevent backflow of blood into the ventricles due to aortic insufficiency. CPB 
machine revolutionized the valve replacement in the anatomical position. Dr. 
Dwight Harken and his colleagues performed the first successful aortic valve 
replacement. Later that year, Drs. Albert Starr and Lowell Edwards performed 
mitral valve replacement. Bioprosthetic valves are closer in function to natural 
valves but have a limited life expectancy, whereas, Mechanical valves are more 
durable but require anticoagulation. The choice of valves, among other factors, 
depends upon the patient’s age and well-being. Mechanical heart valves are known 
to last for approximately 25 years. Seventy different mechanical heart valves 
have been developed since 1960. Ball and cage, bi-leaflet, and tilting disc are 
the common ones. Modification of the ball valve by Dr. Albert Starr and Lowell 
Edwards entailed developing a cage made of lucite with a silicone elastomer 
ball. The cage material was later changed to stainless steel and then 
cobalt-chromium alloys. The Starr-Edward valve also has a Teflon sewing ring, 
which enabled suturing into mitral and later into the aortic position.  
Increased thrombogenicity has been a significant issue, for which valves 
underwent several modifications such as measures to reduce metal contact by 
covering the struts with cloth and using Silastic shields. Other issues included 
hemolysis due to excessive rubbing of the ball against the sewing ring and 
occlusion of coronary ostia because of high profile. Despite these issues, these 
valves showed the feasibility of prosthetic valve enabling Starr-Edwards to draw 
design criteria. Basic points included that the valves should be chemically 
inert, biocompatible, a-traumatic to blood, and non-thrombogenic.  In 1965, 
Kay-Shiley’s non-rotating disc valve replaced the ball with a single disc but 
demonstrated poor hemodynamics and hemolysis and was discontinued. Bjork-Shiley 
in 1969 developed a tilting-disc valve, which overcame the problems with the 
single-disc valve. Free rotation of disc between metal struts allows it to open 
by tilting at a 60-degree angle. Bjork-Shiley replaced the flat with the 
convexo-concave disc to create a larger orifice in 1975 but were the object of a 
recall due to fracture of welded struts.  Medtronic Hall valve developed by Dr. 
Karl Hall and Robert Kaster is the most common tilting disc valve. Perforation 
in the middle of the disc served as a guide and an improved tilting angle. In 
1977, St Jude Medical developed Bi-leaflet valve, which comprised two 
semi-circular flaps with hinges close to the center of the orifice. Stagnation 
of blood flow leading to thrombus formation around the hinge region was a 
problem with the bi-leaflet valve. A newly developed valve resolved this issue 
with a valve in which the continuous 360-degree rotation around the central axis 
of the valve ensured an even distribution of blood flow and prevent thrombus 
formation.  Predisposition for thrombosis, embolism, need for lifelong 
anticoagulation therapy are drawbacks of mechanical valves. Bioprosthetic valves 
can either be an allograft (cadaver or Ross procedure) or, a xenograft (native 
or pericardium). The Ross procedure involves replacing the diseased aortic valve 
with the patient’s own pulmonary valve (autograft) and replace the pulmonary 
valve with aortic or pulmonary allograft. The pulmonary autograft grows with the 
patient and does not induce an immunologic response. The most common xenografts 
are porcine aortic valves and bovine pericardial valves. Lonescu-Shiley 
developed xenograft valves by using bovine pericardium on a titanium stent in 
1971 but was later withdrawn in 1987 due to structural failure including 
abrasive tears because of fabric-tissue interface and leaflet calcification. 
Carpentier-Edwards bovine pericardial valve overcame those issues by making some 
structural modifications, like stitching pericardium to the inside of the fabric 
and using flexible stent posts. Although biological valves have better 
hemodynamics compared to mechanical valves, they have a shorter lifespan because 
of calcification, which stiffens the valve leaflets. Tissues engineering, a 
field in regenerative medicine restores and maintains the function of living 
tissues. Skin graft for burn victims is an example. Tissue engineered heart 
valves (TEHV) are perceived to be non-thrombogenic, and infection resistant. 
With advancement in material science and culturing techniques, there is the 
possibility of a TEHV valve that is capable of growing, remodeling and repairing 
itself as the patients grow. Polymeric valves have been around for over 50 
years, but because the earlier versions were prone to calcification and 
degradation, they were not widely used and instead only used in bridge devices 
like artificial hearts and left ventricular assist devices. Besides the 
advantage that they can be produced in various shapes and sizes, they are known 
to combine the durability of mechanical valves and the hydrodynamic function of 
bioprosthetic valves. The earliest polymeric valve implanted in a 
44-year-old female in 1958 at the mitral position was a polyurethane design with 
Teflon chordae tendinae. Polyurethane valves have been found to have better 
hemodynamics compared to bioprosthetic valves and a lower incidence of 
thrombogenicity than mechanical valves. With advances in material sciences, the 
future of polymeric valves seems promising.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 30725821

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Furqan Rajput declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Roman Zeltser 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


814. Marfan Syndrome.

Salik I(1), Rawla P(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Jan 23.

Author information:
(1)Westchester MC/New York Med. College
(2)Sovah Health, Martinsville, VA

One of the most common inherited disorders affecting connective tissue, Marfan 
syndrome (MFS), is an autosomal dominant condition with a reported incidence of 
1 in 3000 to 5000 individuals. The defect is in the FBN1 gene of chromosome 15, 
which produces fibrillin, a connective tissue protein. There is a broad range of 
clinical severity associated with MFS, ranging from isolated features of MFS to 
neonatal presentation of severe and rapidly progressive disease involving 
multiple organ systems. The syndrome is associated with classic ocular, 
cardiovascular, and musculoskeletal abnormalities, although involvement of the 
lung, skin, and central nervous system may also occur. Decreased life expectancy 
occurs primarily due to aortic complications including aortic root dilatation 
and dissection. The patients with MFS display multiple deformities of the 
skeleton including dolichostenomelia (long limbs compared to trunk), 
arachnodactyly (abnormally long and thin digits), thoracolumbar scoliosis, 
and pectus deformities (excavatum and carinatum). Aortic regurgitation, 
dilatation, and aneurysms are most common in the cardiovascular system. Mitral 
valve prolapse can also occur. Ocular findings include dislocation of the lens, 
cataract, myopia, and retinal detachment. The diagnosis of MFS is usually made 
clinically based on typical abnormalities. Craniofacial characteristics, thumb 
and wrist signs, severe hindfoot valgus, and pectus carinatum are the physical 
features with the highest diagnostic yield. There is no specific laboratory test 
except for molecular genetic testing for the diagnosis of MFS. There is no 
specific treatment that cures MFS but specific interventions may improve certain 
aspects of the syndrome. Medical therapy with beta-blockers and other 
afterload-reducing agents is targeted at reducing stress on the aortic valve, 
mitral valve, and aortic root. Outcome improves with early diagnosis, medical 
treatment to delay or prevent the progression of aortic dilatation, and timely 
elective surgery.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 30726024

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Irim Salik declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Prashanth Rawla 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


815. J Clin Oncol. 2019 Mar 20;37(9):703-713. doi: 10.1200/JCO.18.01652. Epub
2019  Feb 6.

Relapse Risk and Loss of Lifetime After Modern Combined Modality Treatment of 
Young Patients With Hodgkin Lymphoma: A Nordic Lymphoma Epidemiology Group 
Study.

Biccler JL(1)(2), Glimelius I(3)(4), Eloranta S(3), Smeland KB(5), Brown PN(6), 
Jakobsen LH(1)(2), Frederiksen H(7), Jerkeman M(8), Fosså A(5)(9), Andersson 
TML(3), Holte H(5)(9), Bøgsted M(1)(2), El-Galaly TC(1)(2), Smedby KE(3)(10).

Author information:
(1)1 Aalborg University Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark.
(2)2 Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark.
(3)3 Karolinska Institutet, Solna, Sweden.
(4)4 Uppsala University and Uppsala Akademiska Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.
(5)5 Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(6)6 Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(7)7 Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark.
(8)8 Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(9)9 K.G. Jebsen Center for B-Cell Malignancies, Oslo, Norway.
(10)10 Karolinska University Hospital, Solna, Sweden.

PURPOSE: Estimates of short- and long-term survival for young patients with 
classic Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) are of considerable interest. We investigated cHL 
prognosis in the era of contemporary treatment at different milestones during 
the follow-up.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: On the basis of a Nordic cohort of 2,582 patients 
diagnosed at ages 18 to 49 years between 2000 and 2013, 5-year relapse risks and 
5-year restricted losses in expectation of lifetime were estimated for all 
patients and for patients who achieved event-free survival (EFS) for 12 (EFS12), 
24 (EFS24), 36 (EFS36) or 60 (EFS60) months. The median follow-up time was 9 
years (range, 2.9 to 16.8 years).
RESULTS: The 5-year overall survival was 95% (95% CI, 94% to 96%). The 5-year 
risk of relapse was 13.4% (95% CI, 12.1% to 14.8%) overall but decreased to 4.2% 
(95% CI, 3.8% to 4.6%) given that patients reached EFS24. Relapse risk for 
patients treated with six to eight courses of bleomycin, etoposide, doxorubicin, 
cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (BEACOPP) was 
comparable to that of patients treated with six to eight courses of doxorubicin, 
bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) despite more adverse risk 
criteria among patients treated with BEACOPP. Both from diagnosis and if EFS24 
was reached, the losses in expectation of lifetime during the following 5 years 
were small (from diagnosis, 45 days [95% CI, 35 to 54 days] and for patients who 
reached EFS24, 13 days [95% CI, 7 to 20 days]). In stage-stratified analyses of 
5-year restricted loss in expectation of lifetime, patients with stages I to IIA 
disease had no noteworthy excess risk of death after they reached EFS24, whereas 
risk remained measurable for patients with stages IIB to IV cHL.
CONCLUSION: Real-world data on young patients with cHL from the Nordic countries 
show excellent outcomes. The outlook is particularly favorable for patients who 
reach EFS24, which supports limited relapse-oriented clinical follow-up.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.18.01652
PMID: 30726176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Adv Ther. 2019 Mar;36(3):632-644. doi: 10.1007/s12325-019-0894-2. Epub 2019
Feb  6.

Intravitreal Ranibizumab for the Treatment of Visual Impairment Due to Choroidal 
Neovascularization Associated with Rare Diseases: Cost-Effectiveness in the UK.

McCarthy G(1), Fenu E(1), Bennett N(2), Almond C(1).

Author information:
(1)BresMed Health Solutions Ltd, Sheffield, UK.
(2)Novartis Pharmaceuticals UK Limited, Camberley, Surrey, UK. 
natalie.bennett@novartis.com.

INTRODUCTION: This study sought to determine the cost-effectiveness of 
intravitreal ranibizumab compared with best supportive care (BSC; considered to 
be no active treatment) for the treatment of visual impairment due to choroidal 
neovascularization (CNV) associated with causes other than neovascular 
age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) and pathologic myopia (PM) in a UK 
setting.
METHODS: An individual patient-level simulation model was developed to estimate 
the lifetime costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) of ranibizumab vs. 
BSC. Regression analyses, performed on patient-level data collected within the 
pivotal phase III MINERVA trial, modelled visual acuity (VA) progression while 
patients remained on treatment. Patient utilities were modelled as a function of 
VA in both eyes and resource use estimates were based on trial data or the 
literature. Costs were evaluated from the perspective of the UK National Health 
Service and personal social services, with future costs and health outcomes 
discounted at 3.5% per annum. Sensitivity and scenario analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for intravitreal ranibizumab 
was £1363 per QALY compared to BSC and was associated with an incremental 
benefit of 1.06 QALYs and an incremental cost of £1444 per patient. Drug and 
administration costs of intravitreal ranibizumab were offset by the prevention 
of the development of blindness and its associated costs, while the increase in 
benefits was driven by a reduction in mortality risk and an improved 
health-related quality of life attributed to an improvement in VA. The findings 
were robust to a range of sensitivity analyses and ranibizumab consistently 
remained cost-effective at a willingness-to-pay threshold of £20,000-30,000 per 
QALY gained for all sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSION: Intravitreal ranibizumab is a highly cost-effective intervention for 
the treatment of CNV due to causes other than nAMD and PM as it delivers 
substantial QALY gains to patients while making cost savings vs. BSC.
FUNDING: Novartis Pharmaceuticals UK Ltd.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-019-0894-2
PMID: 30726549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Klin Lab Diagn. 2018;63(8):495-499. doi:
10.18821/0869-2084-2018-63-8-495-499.

[The impact of lipid metabolism on the rate of aging of patients with arterial 
hypertension.].

[Article in Russian]

Bulgakova SV(1), Gusyakova OA(1), Treneva EV(1), Zakharova NO(1), Nikolaeva 
AV(1).

Author information:
(1)Samara State Medical University, 43099, Samara, Russia.

Now atherosclerosis is even more often positioned as the natural hereditary 
determined process determining the rate of aging of an organism and life 
expectancy. Research objective: to study correlation interrelations between 
indicators of a lipidic profile and rate of aging of men with an arterial 
hypertension. We have conducted a one-stage research of 123 male patients 
(middle age 52,4±0,60 years). The main group (I) was made by patients with the 
arterial hypertension (AH) of the II stage of high risk. The control (II) group 
was made by 60 patients without kliniko-tool symptoms of cardiovascular 
pathology. The research of a lipid profile was conducted on the biochemical 
autoanalyzer «Humastar 600» (Human GMBH, Germany) with studying of the general 
cholesterol (OHS), lipoproteid of the low density (LDL), lipoproteid of the high 
density (LPVP), triglycerides (TG), calculation of the aterogennost coefficient 
(AC) was also carried out. Rate of aging decided on the basis of integrated 
assessment of the biological age (BA) on use of a technique of the Kiev 
Scientific Research Institute Gerontology. Patients with AG have a direct 
correlation dependence of moderate force between biological age and lipid 
exchange traces with OHS indicators (r=0,364, p=0,003), LDL (r=0,359, p=0,004), 
TG (r=0,324, p=0,010) and KA (r=0,488, p<0,001). The return correlation 
communication is noted with LPVP (-0,446, р<0,001). Patients have groups of 
control the direct correlation dependence of moderate force of BV and lipidic 
range is noted also for atherogenous fractions of lipoproteid and KA, feedback - 
for LPVP (-0,623, р<0,001). On the basis of the carried-out mathematical 
modeling formulas for determination of biological age of the considered groups 
of patients taking into account indicators of a lipidic profile have been made. 
The correlation analysis which is carried out by us reflects a dislipidemiya 
contribution to development of the accelerated aging of an organism, and the 
executed mathematical modeling allows to carry out diagnostics of the 
accelerated aging of patients by means of indicators of lipid exchange.

DOI: 10.18821/0869-2084-2018-63-8-495-499
PMID: 30726654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


818. Gesundheitswesen. 2019 Feb;81(2):144-149. doi: 10.1055/a-0832-2038. Epub
2019  Feb 6.

[Why is the "Number of Premature Deaths Due to Environmental Exposures" not 
Appropriately Quantifiable?].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Morfeld P(1), Erren TC(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Arbeitsmedizin, Umweltmedizin und Präventionsforschung, 
Uniklinik Köln, Köln.

Epidemiological studies and their applications in regulations of hazardous 
substances (e. g. by WHO, USA, EU) often quantify effects of environmental 
exposures on populations ("burden of disease") by calculating "numbers of 
premature deaths due to exposure". A recent example is the study by Schneider et 
al., commissioned by the German Federal Environmental Agency (Umweltbundesamt), 
into the burden of disease caused by exposures to nitrogen dioxide (NO2) in 
Germany. The authors assessed the proportion of premature deaths due to exposure 
by the "Attributable Fraction" (AF). However, true numbers of premature deaths 
caused by NO2 could be much higher or smaller. Indeed, Robins and Greenland 
showed in 1989 that the AF approach is inappropriate. Despite its far-reaching 
relevance for epidemiology and public health, their seminal work was not 
adequately taken into consideration, possibly due to its sophisticated level of 
mathematical argumentation. Our contribution illustrates - with simple examples 
- unappreciated but important pitfalls. We recommend that the concept of "number 
of premature deaths" be abandoned and "years of life lost due to exposure" be 
provided instead, calculated per capita. However, "years of life lost due to 
exposure" should not be stratified by age or causes of death (diseases). 
Furthermore, we show that "Disability Adjusted Life Years" (DALY) do not provide 
a meaningful measure to evaluate the effect of environmental exposures on 
populations.

Publisher: In epidemiologischen Studien und deren Anwendung bei 
Schadstoffregulierungen (z. B. durch WHO, USA, EU) werden Wirkungen von 
Umweltexpositionen auf Bevölkerungen („Burden Of Disease“, „Krankheitslast“) oft 
mittels der verursachten „Anzahl vorzeitiger Todesfälle“, d. h. der durch die 
Exposition zeitlich vorverlagerten Todesfälle, quantifiziert. Ein aktuelles 
Beispiel ist die Studie von Schneider et al. zu Krankheitslasten durch 
Stickstoffdioxid (NO2)-Exposition in Deutschland, durchgeführt im Auftrag des 
Umweltbundesamtes. Die Autoren ermittelten den Anteil der durch die Exposition 
verursachten vorzeitigen Todesfälle mittels der „Attributablen Fraktion“ (AF). 
Gleichwohl können die wahren Zahlen vorzeitiger Todesfälle durch NO2 viel größer 
oder kleiner sein. Tatsächlich hatten Robins und Greenland bereits 1989 gezeigt, 
dass der AF-Ansatz nicht angemessen ist. Trotz der weitreichenden Bedeutung für 
Epidemiologie und Public Health wurde ihre wegweisende Arbeit nicht adäquat 
berücksichtigt, möglicherweise aufgrund der anspruchsvollen mathematischen 
Argumentation. Unser Beitrag erläutert – mit einfachen Methoden – unbeachtete 
aber bedeutende Fallstricke. Wir empfehlen, auf das Konzept der „Anzahl 
vorzeitiger Todesfälle“ zu verzichten und stattdessen die durch die Exposition 
verlorene Lebenszeit anzugeben, berechnet pro Person. Diese sollte aber nicht 
für unterschiedliche Todesursachen (Erkrankungen) und/oder Altersverteilungen 
aufgeschlüsselt werden. Wir zeigen zudem, dass „Disability Adjusted Life Years“ 
(DALY) kein angemessenes Maß sind, um Expositionswirkungen in der Bevölkerung zu 
bewerten.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/a-0832-2038
PMID: 30727001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: PM war bis 11.01.2016 Mitglied im 
wissenschaftlichen Beirat der EUGT e.V. PM erhielt in 2018 eine 
Reisekostenerstattung vom Umweltbundesamt. TE gibt keinen Interessenkonflikt an.


819. Plant Dis. 2012 Oct;96(10):1576. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-03-12-0251-PDN.

An Outbreak of Onion Center Rot Caused by Pantoea ananatis in Korea.

Kim J(1), Choi O(1), Kim TS(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Gyeongsang National University, 
Jinju 660-701, Korea.
(2)Gyeongsangnam-do Agricultural Research and Extension Services, Jinju 660-360, 
Korea.

Symptoms typical of center rot of onion (Allium cepa L.) were observed in 
farmers' fields in spring of 2009 and 2010 in Hamyang, South Korea, at an 
incidence of 30 to 50% (five affected fields representing approximately 6 ha). 
The symptoms were identical to those reported from infected onions in Georgia in 
1997 (1). Harvested bulbs of symptomatic plants had reddish, collapsed scales 
near the neck. Symptomatic bulb tissues were surface-sterilized by immersing 
sections of the tissue for 30 s in 1% NaOCl, then rinsing the sections with 
sterilized, distilled water. Tissues were then macerated in 1 ml of sterilized, 
distilled water in a 1.5 ml Eppendorf tube using a sterile scalpel. The 
macerated tissue was left to soak for 10 min, after which a 5 μl suspension from 
each section was streaked onto plates of nutrient agar (NA). Gram-negative, 
rod-shaped, yellow bacteria were consistently recovered on NA. Three bacterial 
isolates recovered were each facultative anaerobes and induced a hypersensitive 
reaction on tobacco leaves. The biochemical test, API 20E (Biomérieux, Marcy 
l'Etoile, France), was also used for identification. All three strains tested 
positive for β-D-galactosidase, utilization of citrate, and production of 
acetoin, catalase, and indole. All three strains tested negative for ornithine 
decarboxylase, lysine decarboxylase, urease, and oxidase. All produced acid from 
arabinose, glucose, mannitol, and sorbitol; while none produced acid from 
melibiose, inositol, and rhamnose. These characteristics are consistent with 
those of P. ananatis (1,2). Five bulbs were each surface-disinfested with 70% 
ethanol, dried, and injected with 50 μl of the appropriate bacterial suspension 
containing ~108 CFU/ml, using a syringe. The bulbs were placed in plastic boxes 
with four sheets of wet paper towel to maintain the relative humidity at 100%, 
and incubated at 25°C for 2 weeks. Three onion bulbs treated similarly but 
injected with sterilized, distilled water served as replicates of the control 
treatment. After 1 week of incubation, inoculated onion bulbs developed a brown 
discoloration and decay of the internal, fleshy scales matching those observed 
in the original farmers' fields. The control onion bulbs remained asymptomatic. 
Bacteria reisolated from lesions in the fleshy bulb scales of the inoculated 
bulbs had the same characteristics as the original isolates inoculated, proving 
Koch's postulates. Bacteria were not reisolated from any of the control bulbs. 
To confirm identity of the isolated bacteria, 16S rRNA and recA genes were 
amplified with primers 27mF: 5'-AGAGTTTGATCMTGGCTCAG-3' and 1492mR: 
5'-GGYTACCTTGTTACGACTT-3', and PAGRECA21: 5'-GGTGAAGACCGCTCAATGGA-3' and 
PAGRECA621: 5'-CACCGATACGGCGGATATCA-3', respectively (3). Amplification of the 
16S rRNA gene generated a 1,506-bp consensus sequence (GenBank Accession No. 
JQ762264), and amplification of the recA gene generated a consensus sequence of 
601 bp (JQ762265). The 16S rRNA and recA gene sequences shared 99% nucleotide 
identity with those of a P. ananatis strain in GenBank (DQ195523 and AY219004, 
respectively). Based on symptoms, biochemical tests, and molecular analyses, the 
bacterium responsible for the onion symptoms in Korea was identified as P. 
ananatis. To our knowledge, this is the first report of center rot of onion 
caused by P. ananatis in Korea. References: (1) R. D. Gitaitis and J. D. Gay. 
Plant Dis. 81:1096, 1997. (2) H. G. Truper and L. de Clari. Int. J. Syst. 
Bacteriol. 47:908, 1997. (3) A. Wensing et al. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 
76:6248, 2010.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-03-12-0251-PDN
PMID: 30727345


820. Plant Dis. 2012 May;96(5):762. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-01-12-0020-PDN.

An Outbreak of Leaf Spot Caused by Corynespora cassiicola on Korean Raspberry in 
Korea.

Kwon JH(1), Kang DW(1), Kwak YS(2), Kim J(2).

Author information:
(1)Gyeongsangnam-do Agricultural Research and Extension Services, Jinju 660-360, 
Korea.
(2)Institute of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Gyeongsang National University, 
Jinju 660-701, Korea. This work was supported by the Rural Development 
Administration fund PJ007345.

In September and October 2010, leaf spots were observed on Korean raspberry 
(Rubus crataegifolius Bunge) plants in farmers' fields in Hapcheon, Gyeongnam 
Province, South Korea. Disease incidence ranged from 50 to 80% among fields. 
Circular- to irregular-shaped spots surrounded by yellow halos occurred 
frequently on the leaves of Korean raspberry plants. Brown spots became dark 
with wavy borders and ranged from 20 to 300 mm in diameter. Infected leaves 
became chlorotic, blighted, and eventually died. Fungal hyphae covered the 
lesions with abundant conidia and conidiophores. Fresh leaf specimens were 
collected from infected plants and the putative causal pathogen was isolated 
onto potato dextrose agar (PDA). A total of 30 isolates of the fungus were 
collected from diseased plants collected in the field. Fungal colonies were gray 
to brown on PDA. Colonies formed conidia, 38 to 210 × 8 to 20 μm, which were 
solitary or catenary, obclavate to cylindrical, smooth, straight or curved, and 
subhyaline to pale brown or brown. Conidiophores, 98 to 840 × 4 to 12 μm, were 
slightly or conspicuously swollen at apex, single, simple, straight or slightly 
flexuous, pale to midbrown, smooth, septate, thick, monotretic, and determinate 
or in tufts. Morphological characteristics of the fungal specimens were similar 
to descriptions of Corynespora cassiicola (1). A representative isolate of the 
pathogen was used to inoculate leaves of Korean raspberry plants for 
pathogenicity testing. Five leaves of a 3-month-old potted plant were sprayed 
with a suspension of conidia in water. Conidia were harvested from PDA cultures 
and adjusted to 2 × 104 conidia/ml with a hemocytometer. Five leaves sprayed 
with sterile distilled water served as controls. Inoculated plants were placed 
in a humid chamber with 100% relative humidity at 30°C for 24 h and then moved 
to a greenhouse. Symptoms similar to those observed in the farmers' fields 
developed on the inoculated leaves within 12 days, whereas the controls remained 
asymptomatic. The causal fungus was reisolated from the lesions of inoculated 
plants to satisfy Koch's postulates. To confirm the identity of the fungus, the 
complete internal transcribed spacer (ITS) rDNA region was amplified and 
sequenced (3). Amplification of the ITS region generated a 559-bp sequence 
