(GenBank Accession No. JQ340026) with 100% similarity to sequences of C. 
cassiicola in GenBank (Accession No. GU138988) causing leaf spot on cassava (2). 
Based on the symptoms, morphological characteristics, pathogenicity, and 
molecular identification, this fungus was identified as C. cassiicola (1). To 
our knowledge, this is the first report of leaf spot caused by C. cassiicola on 
Korean raspberry. The recent occurrence of leaf spot on Korean raspberry 
suggests that C. cassiicola is spreading widely and posing a serious threat to 
these plants in Korea. References: (1) M. B. Ellis et al. No. 303 in: CMI 
Descriptions of Pathogenic Fungi and Bacteria. Surrey, Kew, UK, 1971. (2) X.-B. 
Liu et al. Plant Dis. 94:916, 2010. (3) T. J. White et al. Page 315 in: PCR 
Protocols: A Guide to Methods and Applications. M. A. Innis et al., eds. 
Academic Press, Inc., New York, 1990.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-01-12-0020-PDN
PMID: 30727535


821. Curr Pharm Des. 2018;24(41):4932-4946. doi:
10.2174/1381612825666190206105232.

Recent Advances in Half-life Extension Strategies for Therapeutic Peptides and 
Proteins.

Tan H(1), Su W(1), Zhang W(1), Wang P(1), Sattler M(1)(2)(3), Zou P(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Industrial Enzymes National Engineering Laboratory, Tianjin Institute of 
Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin, China.
(2)Institute of Structural Biology, Helmholtz Center Munich, German Research 
Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(3)Center for Integrated Protein Science Munich at Chair Biomolecular NMR 
Spectroscopy, Department Chemie, Technische Universität München, Garching, 
Germany.

Peptides and proteins are two classes of molecules with attractive possibilities 
for therapeutic applications. However, the bottleneck for the therapeutic 
application of many peptides and proteins is their short halflives in vivo, 
typically just a few minutes to hours. Half-life extension strategies have been 
extensively studied and many of them have been proven to be effective in the 
generation of long-acting therapeutics with improved pharmacokinetic and 
pharmacodynamic properties. In this review, we summarize the recent advances in 
half-life extension strategies, illustrate their potential applications and give 
some examples, highlighting the strategies that have been used in approved drugs 
and for drugs in clinical trials. Meanwhile, several novel strategies that are 
still in the process of discovery or at a preclinical stage are also introduced. 
In these strategies, the two most frequently used half-life extension methods 
are the reduction in the rate of renal clearance or the exploitation of the 
recycling mechanism of FcRn by binding to the albumin or IgG-Fc. Here, we 
discuss half-life extension strategies of recombinant therapeutic protein via 
genetic fusion, rather than chemical conjugation such as PEGylation. With the 
rapid development of genetic engineering and protein engineering, novel 
strategies for half-life extension have been emerged consistently. Some of these 
will be evaluated in clinical trials and may become viable alternatives to 
current strategies for making next-generation biodrugs.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1381612825666190206105232
PMID: 30727869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Br J Ophthalmol. 2019 Nov;103(11):1633-1638. doi: 
10.1136/bjophthalmol-2018-312756. Epub 2019 Feb 6.

Adalimumab for non-infectious uveitis: is it cost-effective?

Bermejo I(1), Squires H(2), Poku EN(2), Cooper K(2), Stevens JW(2), Hamilton 
J(2), Wong R(2), Pearce I(3), Quhill FM(4), Denniston AK(5).

Author information:
(1)ScHARR, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK inigo.bermejo@gmail.com.
(2)ScHARR, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(3)St Paul's Eye Unit, Royal Liverpool University Hospital, Liverpool, UK.
(4)Opthalmology, Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Sheffield, 
UK.
(5)Department of Opthalmology, University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation 
Trust, Birmingham, UK.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Uveitis is inflammation inside the eye. Our objective was to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of adalimumab compared with current practice 
(immunosuppressants and systemic corticosteroids) in patients with 
non-infectious intermediate, posterior or panuveitis and to identify areas for 
future research.
METHODS: A Markov model was built to estimate costs and benefits of the 
interventions. Systematic reviews were performed to identify the available 
relevant clinical and cost-effectiveness evidence. Data collected in two key 
randomised controlled trials (VISUAL I and VISUAL II) were used to estimate the 
interventions' effectiveness compared with the trials' comparator arms (placebo 
plus limited current practice (LCP)). The analysis was performed from the 
National Health Service and Personal Social Services perspective. Costs were 
calculated based on standard UK sources.
RESULTS: The estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) of 
adalimumab versus LCP for the base case are £92 600 and £318 075 per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained for active and inactive uveitis, 
respectively. In sensitivity analyses, the ICER varied from £15 579 to £120 653 
and £35 642 to £800 775 per QALY for active and inactive uveitis.
CONCLUSION: The estimated ICERs of adalimumab versus LCP are above generally 
accepted thresholds for cost-effectiveness in the UK. Adalimumab may be more 
cost-effective in patients with active uveitis at greater risk of blindness. 
However, there is an unmet need for additional primary data to provide more 
reliable estimates in several important areas, including effectiveness of 
adalimumab versus current practice (instead of LCP), incidence of long-term 
blindness, adalimumab effectiveness in avoiding blindness, and rates and time to 
remission while on adalimumab.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2019. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2018-312756
PMID: 30728124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


823. Curr Psychiatry Rep. 2019 Feb 7;21(2):10. doi: 10.1007/s11920-019-0997-0.

Global Burden of Disease and the Impact of Mental and Addictive Disorders.

Rehm J(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7), Shield KD(8)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy, TU Dresden, Chemnitzer 
Str. 46, 01187, Dresden, Germany. jtrehm@gmail.com.
(2)Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Institute for Mental Health Policy 
Research, 33 Russell Street, Toronto, Ontario, M5S 2S1, Canada. 
jtrehm@gmail.com.
(3)WHO Collaboration Centre, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, 33 Russell 
Street, Toronto, Ontario, M5S 2S1, Canada. jtrehm@gmail.com.
(4)Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, 1 King's College Circle, 
Toronto, Ontario, M5S 1A8, Canada. jtrehm@gmail.com.
(5)Campbell Family Mental Health Research Institute, Centre for Addiction and 
Mental Health, 250 College Street, Toronto, Ontario, M5T 1R8, Canada. 
jtrehm@gmail.com.
(6)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, 155 College 
Street, Toronto, Ontario, M5T 3M7, Canada. jtrehm@gmail.com.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, 250 College Street, Toronto, 
Ontario, M5T 1R8, Canada. jtrehm@gmail.com.
(8)Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Institute for Mental Health Policy 
Research, 33 Russell Street, Toronto, Ontario, M5S 2S1, Canada.
(9)WHO Collaboration Centre, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, 33 Russell 
Street, Toronto, Ontario, M5S 2S1, Canada.
(10)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, 155 College 
Street, Toronto, Ontario, M5T 3M7, Canada.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This contribution reviews the newest empirical evidence 
regarding the burden of mental and addictive disorders and weighs their 
importance for global health in the first decades of the twenty-first century.
RECENT FINDINGS: Mental and addictive disorders affected more than 1 billion 
people globally in 2016. They caused 7% of all global burden of disease as 
measured in DALYs and 19% of all years lived with disability. Depression was 
associated with most DALYs for both sexes, with higher rates in women as all 
other internalizing disorders, whereas other disorders such as substance use 
disorders had higher rates in men. Mental and addictive disorders affect a 
significant portion of the global population with high burden, in particular in 
high- and upper-middle-income countries. The relative share of these disorders 
has increased in the past decades, in part due to stigma and lack of treatment. 
Future research needs to better analyze the role of mental and addictive 
disorders in shifts of life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11920-019-0997-0
PMID: 30729322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc. 2019 Jun;27(6):1704-1707. doi: 
10.1007/s00167-019-05372-y. Epub 2019 Feb 7.

A brief introduction to health economics.

Waugh N(1), Mistry H(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Sciences, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, 
Gibbet Hill Campus, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK. norman.waugh@warwick.ac.uk.
(2)Division of Health Sciences, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, 
Gibbet Hill Campus, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK.

To convince policy-makers or funders of health care of the value of orthopaedic 
interventions, we need to consider value for money (cost-effectiveness), as well 
as clinical effectiveness. This article provides an introduction to health 
economics to set the scene for papers on the use of allografts in the knee.

DOI: 10.1007/s00167-019-05372-y
PMCID: PMC6541570
PMID: 30729981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


825. Diabetes Ther. 2019 Apr;10(2):563-574. doi: 10.1007/s13300-019-0575-9. Epub
2019  Feb 7.

Cost-Effectiveness of Continuous Subcutaneous Insulin Infusion Versus Multiple 
Daily Injections in Patients with Poorly Controlled Type 2 Diabetes in Finland.

Roze S(1), Smith-Palmer J(2), Delbaere A(3), Bjornstrom K(4), de Portu S(3), 
Valentine W(5), Honkasalo M(6).

Author information:
(1)HEVA HEOR, 186 Avenue Thiers, 69006, Lyon, France.
(2)Ossian Health Economics and Communications, Bäumleingasse 20, 4051, Basel, 
Switzerland. Smith-palmer@ossianconsulting.com.
(3)Medtronic International Sarl, Route du Molliau 31, 1131, Tolochenaz, 
Switzerland.
(4)Medtronic Finland, World Trade Center, Lentäjäntie 3, 01530, Vantaa, Finland.
(5)Ossian Health Economics and Communications, Bäumleingasse 20, 4051, Basel, 
Switzerland.
(6)Nurmijärvi Health Centre, Nurmijärvi, Finland.

INTRODUCTION: Although primarily utilized in type 1 diabetes, continuous 
subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) represents a useful treatment alternative 
for patients with type 2 diabetes who are unable to achieve good glycemic 
control despite optimization of multiple daily injections (MDI). The aim of the 
analysis reported here was to investigate the long-term cost-effectiveness of 
CSII versus MDI in type 2 diabetes patients with poor glycemic control in 
Finland.
METHODS: The IQVIA CORE Diabetes Model was used to make long-term projections of 
the clinical and economic outcomes associated with CSII use in type 2 diabetes, 
based on clinical input data from the OpT2mise trial, which showed that CSII was 
associated with a 1.1% decrease in glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) in patients with 
poor glycemic control at baseline. The analysis was performed from a societal 
perspective and the time horizon was that of patient lifetimes. Future costs and 
clinical outcomes were discounted at 3% per annum.
RESULTS: Continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion was associated with a gain in 
quality-adjusted life expectancy of 0.32 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
compared with MDI (8.15 vs. 7.83 QALYs, respectively), as well as higher mean 
lifetime costs, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of Euro 
(EUR) 47,834 per QALY gained for CSII versus MDI. The higher treatment costs in 
the CSII group were partly mitigated by a 15% reduction in diabetes-related 
complication costs. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that CSII was most 
cost-effective in patients with the highest baseline HbA1c values.
CONCLUSION: In Finland, CSII is likely to represent a cost-effective treatment 
alternative for patients with type 2 diabetes with poor glycemic control despite 
optimization of MDI. In such patients, CSII is associated with improved clinical 
outcomes relative to MDI, with the higher acquisition costs partly offset by a 
lower lifetime incidence and cost of diabetes-related complications.
FUNDING: Medtronic International Sàrl.

DOI: 10.1007/s13300-019-0575-9
PMCID: PMC6437241
PMID: 30730036


826. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2019 Mar 6;11(9):8904-8914. doi: 
10.1021/acsami.8b22592. Epub 2019 Feb 21.

Graphene-Based Steganographically Aptasensing System for Information Computing, 
Encryption and Hiding, Fluorescence Sensing and in Vivo Imaging of Fish 
Pathogens.

Zhu QY(1), Zhang FR(1), Du Y(1), Zhang XX(1), Lu JY(1), Yao QF(1), Huang WT(1), 
Ding XZ(1), Xia LQ(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Developmental Biology of Freshwater Fish, Hunan 
Provincial Key Laboratory of Microbial Molecular Biology, College of Life 
Science , Hunan Normal University , Changsha 410081 , P. R. China.

Inspired by information processing and communication of life based on complex 
molecular interactions, some artificial (bio)chemical systems have been 
developed for applications in molecular information processing or 
chemo/biosensing and imaging. However, little attention has been paid to 
simultaneously and comprehensively utilize the information computing, encoding, 
and molecular recognition capabilities of molecular-level systems (such as 
DNA-based systems) for multifunctional applications. Herein, a graphene-based 
steganographically aptasensing system was constructed for multifunctional 
application, which relies on specific molecular recognition and information 
encoding abilities of DNA aptamers ( Aeromonas hydrophila and Edwardsiella 
tarda-binding aptamers as models) and the selective adsorption and fluorescence 
quenching capacities of graphene oxide (GO). Although graphene-DNA systems have 
been widely used in biosensors and diagnostics, our proposed graphene-based 
aptasensing system can not only be utilized for fluorescence sensing and in vivo 
imaging of fish pathogens ( A. hydrophila and E. tarda), but can also function 
as a molecular-level logic computing system where the combination of matters 
(specific molecules or materials) as inputs produces the resulting product 
(matter level) or fluorescence (energy level) changes as two outputs. More 
importantly and interestingly, our graphene-based steganographically aptasensing 
system can also serve as a generally doubly cryptographic and steganographic 
system for sending different secret messages by using pathogen-binding DNA 
aptamers as information carriers, GO as a cover, and a pair of keys, that is, 
target pathogen as a public key, the encryption key used to encode or decode a 
message in DNA as a private key. Our study not only provides a novel 
nanobiosensing assay for rapid and effective sensing and in vivo imaging of fish 
pathogens, but also demonstrates a prototype of (bio)molecular steganography as 
an important and interesting extension direction of molecular information 
technology, which is helpful in probably promoting the development of 
multifunctional molecular-level devices or machines.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.8b22592
PMID: 30730133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Prescrire Int. 2017 Jan;26(178):9-12.

Olaparib (LYNPARZAO) Ovarian cancer: spare patients who are in remission.

[No authors listed]

Standard post-surgical (adjuvant) chemotherapy for ovarian cancer is based on a 
platinum salt, and may be repeated if relapse occurs more than six months after 
the end of chemo- therapy. Olaparib inhibits enzymes involved in DNA repair. It 
is claimed to have an antitumour effect, especially in the presence of 
deleterious BRCA muta- tions. Olaparib has been authorised in the EU for 
continuous single-agent therapy after the end of platinum-based chemotherapy in 
patients with "plati- num-sensitive" BRCA-positive ovarian cancer who have 
already received at least two lines of platinum-based che- motherapy and entered 
complete or partial remission after the last course of treatment. Clinical 
evaluation of olaparib is based on a randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled trial in 265 patients who were recruited regardless of their 
BRCA status. After a median follow-up of 37 months, patients treated with 
olaparib showed no survival advan- tage, whether or not their tumour harboured 
BRCA mutations. The time to radiological progression was pro- longed by several 
months. An inher- ently unreliable post hoc analysis suggested that olaparib 
delayed the need for further chemotherapy. Olaparib exposes these patients in 
remission to frequent adverse effects, including nausea, vomiting, and impaired 
haematopoiesis. Olaparib can also cause life-threatening myelo- dysplastic 
syndrome, acute myeloid leukaemia, and haemorrhage. Olaparib is metabolised in 
the liver, mainly by cytochrome P450 isoenzymes CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. It is also a 
P-glycoprotein substrate and is likely to inhibit CYP3A4, P-glycopro- tein and 
other carrier proteins. Multiple pharmacokinetic interactions are also likely. 
Treatment with olaparib requires patients to take eight capsules twice a day, 
between meals. In practice, in early 2016, expectations of patients with ovarian 
cancer who have received at least two lines of chemotherapy are high, as they 
have short life expectancy and no sat- isfactory treatment options. Yet treat- 
ment with olaparib after the end of platinum-based chemotherapy still has an 
unfavourable harm-benefit bal- ance: patients derive no proven ben- efit, but 
adverse effects are frequent and sometimes fatal.

PMID: 30730634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Semin Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2019 Autumn;31(3):549-558. doi: 
10.1053/j.semtcvs.2019.02.002. Epub 2019 Feb 5.

Quality of Life Among Patients With Congenital Heart Disease After Valve 
Replacement.

Pragt H(1), Pieper PG(2), van Slooten YJ(3), Freling HG(4), van Dijk APJ(5), 
Sieswerda GTJ(6), Bouma BJ(7), Post MC(8), Jongbloed MRM(9), Willems TP(4), 
Ebels T(1), van Melle JP(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University of Groningen, University 
Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Cardiology, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, the 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University of Groningen, University 
Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands; Department of Cardiology, 
University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Radiology, University of Groningen, University Medical Center 
Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(5)Department of Cardiology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, the 
Netherlands.
(6)Department of Cardiology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the 
Netherlands.
(7)Department of Cardiology, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(8)Department of Cardiology, St. Antonius Hospital Nieuwegein, Nieuwegein, the 
Netherlands.
(9)Department of Cardiology, Leiden University Medical Centre, Leiden, the 
Netherlands.
(10)Department of Cardiology, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, 
the Netherlands. Electronic address: j.p.van.melle@umcg.nl.

Comment in
    Semin Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2019 Autumn;31(3):559-560.

Most studies concerning valve replacement in congenital heart disease (CHD) 
focus on surgical morbidity and mortality. However, with the increased life 
expectancy of these patients, the focus shifts to quality of life (QOL). The aim 
of this study was to report and compare the QOL of CHD patients after valve 
replacement with the general population and to find factors associated with QOL. 
In a multicenter cross-sectional observational study of adults with CHD, QOL was 
measured with the RAND-36 questionnaire (a health-related QOL questionnaire, 
with 8 domains scoring from 0 to 100; higher scores indicate a better QOL). 
Functional status was measured with exercise capacity testing. Uni- and 
multivariable linear regression was used to find associations with QOL. In 
total, 324 patients with CHD and a prosthetic valve were included in this study. 
CHD patients with a valve replacement scored significantly lower than the 
general population on the general health, vitality, and social functioning 
domains (P < 0.05). On the bodily pain domain, they scored significantly higher 
(less pain) (P < 0.001). Higher NYHA class was associated with a lower QOL for 
all domains, reflecting the importance of functional capacity. Other variables 
related to aspects of QOL were age, gender, exercise capacity, and employment 
status. Adult patients with CHD and a prosthetic valve have lower scores on the 
QOL domains general health, vitality, and social functioning as compared to the 
general population. NYHA class was negatively associated with all QOL domains. 
Health care professionals should be aware of these patterns in counseling 
patients.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.semtcvs.2019.02.002
PMID: 30731194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Plant Dis. 2012 Feb;96(2):292. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-05-11-0403.

First Report of Kalanchoe Leaf Scorch Caused by Stemphylium xanthosomatis in 
Korea.

Kwon JH(1), Choi O(2), Kim J(2).

Author information:
(1)Gyeongsangnam-do Agricultural Research and Extension Services, Jinju 660-360, 
Korea.
(2)Institute of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Gyeongsang National University, 
Jinju 660-701, Korea. This work was supported by the Rural Development 
Administration fund PJ007345.

Kalanchoe (Kalanchoe blossfeldiana Poelln.) is widely cultivated in Korea as an 
ornamental houseplant and succulent garden plant because of its ease of 
propagation, low water requirements, and wide variety of flower colors. In 
August 2010, suspected nursery-stage kalanchoe leaf scorch was found at a 
grower's greenhouses located in Gimhae, Korea. In some greenhouses, 20 to 30%, 
and occasionally as much as 50%, of the plants were affected. Symptoms on 
kalanchoe include browning of the leaf margins and yellowing or darkening of 
tissues between the main leaf veins. As the disease progresses, affected leaves 
dried up, turned brown, and became brittle. A velvety, blackish olive mold 
formed on the surface of the dead tissue, followed by plant defoliation. Fresh 
leaf specimens were collected from infected plants and the causal pathogen was 
purified with a single-spore isolation technique and transferred onto potato 
dextrose agar (PDA). Colonies on PDA developed a gray or grayish brown, hairy, 
velvety mycelium that was mostly immersed and also formed conidia. Conidia were 
pale to mid brown, oblong, smooth or verruculose, with three to five transverse 
and one to two longitudinal septa in two to three transverse divisions, and 32 
to 55 × 11 to 18 μm. Conidiophores were pale to mid brown, solitary or in 
fascicles, unbranched or occasionally branched, straight or flexuous, more or 
less cylindrical but enlarged slightly at one to three apical percurrent 
proliferations, septate, and 80 to 300 × 2 to 5 μm. A representative isolate of 
the pathogen was inoculated on kalanchoe leaves for pathogenicity testing. 
Cultures grown on PDA were flooded with sterile distilled water and after 
rubbing with an artist's paintbrush with hair bristles, the resulting 
suspensions were filtered through sterile cheesecloth. Conidial suspensions were 
adjusted to 2.5 × 104 conidia/ml with sterile distilled water. The leaves of 
five 1-month-old potted plants were wounded by applying pressure with forceps 
having serrated teeth, bruising the tissue. Wounded plants were sprayed with a 
conidial suspension until runoff. Five plants sprayed with sterile distilled 
water served as controls. The plants were maintained for 48 h at 25°C in a 
humidity chamber with 100% relative humidity and were then moved to a 
greenhouse. Symptoms similar to those observed in the farmer's greenhouse 
developed on wounded leaves within 9 days. The causal pathogen was reisolated 
from the lesions to prove Koch's postulates. To confirm the identity of the 
fungus, the complete internal transcribed spacer (ITS) rDNA and glyceraldehyde 
3-phosphate dehydrogenase (gpd) gene were amplified and sequenced (1). 
Amplification of the ITS region generated a 579-bp sequence (GenBank Accession 
No. HQ840713) and gpd was 558 bp (GenBank Accession No. JF776462). The ITS and 
gpd sequences were 100% similar to the sequences of Stemphylium xanthosomatis 
(GenBank Accession Nos. AF442804 and AF443903, respectively). On the basis of 
symptoms, mycological characteristics, pathogenicity, and molecular data, this 
fungus was identified as S. xanthosomatis. The type culture of the fungus is 
stored at the Korean Agricultural Culture Collection (KACC 45812), National 
Academy of Agricultural Science, Korea. To our knowledge, this is the first 
report of leaf scorch caused by S. xanthosomatis on kalanchoe in Korea. 
Reference: (1) M. P. S. Câmara et al. Mycologia 94:660, 2002.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-05-11-0403
PMID: 30731836


830. Plant Dis. 2011 May;95(5):616. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-12-10-0917.

First Report of Flyspeck Caused by Zygophiala wisconsinensis on Sweet Persimmon 
Fruit in Korea.

Kim J(1), Choi O(1), Kwon JH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Biology and Institute of Agriculture and Life Science, 
Gyeongsang National University, Jinju 660-701, Korea.
(2)Gyeongsangnam-do Agricultural Research and Extension Services, Jinju 660-360, 
Korea.

Sweet persimmon (Diospyros kaki L.), a fruit tree in the Ebenaceae, is 
cultivated widely in Korea and Japan, the leading producers worldwide (2). Sweet 
persimmon fruit with flyspeck symptoms were collected from orchards in the Jinju 
area of Korea in November 2010. The fruit had fungal clusters of black, round to 
ovoid, sclerotium-like fungal bodies with no visible evidence of a mycelial mat. 
Orchard inspections revealed that disease incidence ranged from 10 to 20% in the 
surveyed area (approximately 10 ha) in 2010. Flyspeck symptoms were observed on 
immature and mature fruit. Sweet persimmon fruit peels with flyspeck symptoms 
were removed, dried, and individual speck lesions transferred to potato dextrose 
agar (PDA) and cultured at 22°C in the dark. Fungal isolates were obtained from 
flyspeck colonies on 10 sweet persimmon fruit harvested from each of three 
orchards. Fungal isolates that grew from the lesions were identified based on a 
previous description (1). To confirm identity of the causal fungus, the complete 
internal transcribed spacer (ITS) rDNA sequence of a representative isolate was 
amplified and sequenced using primers ITS1 and ITS4 (4). The resulting 552-bp 
sequence was deposited in GenBank (Accession No. HQ698923). Comparison with ITS 
rDNA sequences showed 100% similarity with a sequence of Zygophiala 
wisconsinensis Batzer & Crous (GenBank Accession No. AY598855), which infects 
apple. To fulfill Koch's postulates, mature, intact sweet persimmon fruit were 
surface sterilized with 70% ethanol and dried. Three fungal isolates from this 
study were grown on PDA for 1 month. A colonized agar disc (5 mm in diameter) of 
each isolate was cut from the advancing margin of a colony with a sterilized 
cork borer, transferred to a 1.5-ml Eppendorf tube, and ground into a suspension 
of mycelial fragments and conidia in a blender with 1 ml of sterile, distilled 
water. The inoculum of each isolate was applied by swabbing a sweet persimmon 
fruit with the suspension. Three sweet persimmon fruit were inoculated per 
isolate. Three fruit were inoculated similarly with sterile, distilled water as 
the control treatment. After 1 month of incubation in a moist chamber at 22°C, 
the same fungal fruiting symptoms were reproduced as observed in the orchards, 
and the fungus was reisolated from these symptoms, but not from the control 
fruit, which were asymptomatic. On the basis of morphological characteristics of 
the fungal colonies, ITS sequence, and pathogenicity to persimmon fruit, the 
fungus was identified as Z. wisconsinensis (1). Flyspeck is readily isolated 
from sweet persimmon fruit in Korea and other sweet persimmon growing regions 
(3). The exposure of fruit to unusual weather conditions in Korea in recent 
years, including drought, and low-temperature and low-light situations in late 
spring, which are favorable for flyspeck, might be associated with an increase 
in occurrence of flyspeck on sweet persimmon fruit in Korea. To our knowledge, 
this is the first report of Z. wisconsinensis causing flyspeck on sweet 
persimmon in Korea. References: (1) J. C. Batzer et al. Mycologia 100:246, 2008. 
(2) FAOSTAT Database. Retrieved from http://faostat.fao.org/ , 2008. (3) H. Nasu 
and H. Kunoh. Plant Dis. 71:361, 1987. (4) T. J. White et al. Page 315 in: PCR 
Protocols: A Guide to Methods and Applications. M. A. Innis et al., eds. 
Academic Press, Inc., New York, 1990.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-12-10-0917
PMID: 30731967


831. Plant Dis. 2011 Dec;95(12):1585. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-03-11-0233.

First Report of Root Rot Caused by Sclerotium rolfsii on Daucus carota var. 
sativa in Southern Korea.

Kwon JH(1), Lee YH(2), Shim HS(2), Kim J(3).

Author information:
(1)Gyeongsangnam do Agricultural Research and Extension Services, Jinju 660-360, 
Korea.
(2)National Academy of Agricultural Science, RDA, Suwon 441-707, Korea.
(3)Institute of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Gyeongsang National University, 
Jinju 660-701, Korea. This work was supported by the Rural Development 
Administration Fund PJ007345.

Carrot (Daucus carota var. sativa DC.), an important root vegetable, is 
cultivated widely because of its dietary fiber and beta carotene. In June 2009 
and June 2010, a disease suspected as root rot of carrot caused by Sclerotium 
rolfsii occurred in a 5-ha field in Jinju, Korea. Early symptoms consisted of 
water-soaked lesions on root and lower stem tissue near the soil line. Infected 
plants gradually withered and white mycelial mats appeared on the surface of 
roots. Numerous sclerotia were often produced on stem and root surfaces in 
contact with the soil. The heavily infected carrots became rotted and blighted 
and the whole plant eventually died. The freshly isolated pathogenic fungus was 
grown on potato dextrose agar (PDA) and examined microscopically. Optimum 
temperature for mycelia growth or sclerotia formation was 25 to 30°C. Numerous 
globoid sclerotia formed on the PDA after 18 days of mycelial growth. The 
sclerotia (1 to 3 mm in diameter) were white at first and then gradually turned 
dark brown. Aerial mycelia usually formed, consisting of many narrow hyphal 
strands 3 to 9 μm wide. The white mycelium formed a typical clamp connection 
after 5 days of growth at optimum temperature. To fulfill Koch's postulates, 10 
carrot seedlings were inoculated with colonized agar discs (6 mm in diameter) of 
the causal fungus directly on the root and incubated in a humid chamber at 25°C 
for 24 h. Ten carrot seedlings were inoculated similarly with agar discs as the 
control treatment. After this period, the inoculated and noninoculated plants 
were maintained in a greenhouse. Eight days after inoculation, the disease 
symptoms seen in the field were reproduced and the fungus was reisolated from 
the artificially inoculated plants. To confirm identity of the causal fungus, 
the complete internal transcribed spacer (ITS) rDNA region of the causal fungus 
was amplified using the primers ITS1 and ITS4 (2) and sequenced. The resulting 
sequence of 684 bp was deposited in GenBank (Accession No. JF342557). The 
sequence was 99% similar to sequences of Athelia rolfsii (Sclerotium rolfsii) in 
GenBank. Cultures of S. rolfsii have been deposited with the Korean Agricultural 
Culture Collection (KACC 45154), National Academy of Agricultural Science, 
Korea. On the basis of symptoms, fungal colonies, the ITS sequence, and the 
pathogenicity test on the host plant, this fungus was identified as S. rolfsii 
Saccardo (1). To our knowledge, this is the first report of root rot of carrot 
caused by S. rolfsii in Korea. This disease is highly dependent upon 
environmental conditions, including warm weather and high humidity. Recent 
occurrence of the disease suggests that S. rolfsii could spread widely. 
References: (1) J. E. M. Mordue. CMI Descriptions of Pathogenic Fungi and 
Bacteria. No. 410, 1974. (2) T. J. White et al. Page 315 in: PCR Protocols: A 
Guide to Methods and Applications. M. A. Innis et al., eds. Academic Press, 
Inc., New York, 1990.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-03-11-0233
PMID: 30732003


832. J Med Econ. 2019 May;22(5):439-446. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2019.1580714. Epub
 2019 Mar 5.

Cost-effectiveness of olanzapine in the first-line treatment of schizophrenia in 
China.

Zhao J(1), Jiang K(2), Li Q(3), Zhang Y(4), Cheng Y(4), Lin Z(5), Xuan J(6).

Author information:
(1)a The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South University , Changsha City , 
Hunan Province , China.
(2)b Shanghai Mental Health Center , Shanghai , China.
(3)c Departemnt of Psychiatry, Tongji Hospital , Tongji University School of 
Medicine , Shanghai , China.
(4)d Lilly Suzhou Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd , Shanghai , China.
(5)e Shanghai Centennial Scientific Co., Ltd , Shanghai , China.
(6)f Sun Yat-sen University , College Town , Guangzhou , China.

OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to analyze (1) the cost-effectiveness of olanzapine 
orally disintegrating tablet (ODT) compared to olanzapine standard oral tablet 
(SOT) and (2) the cost-effectiveness of olanzapine-SOT compared to 
aripiprazole-SOT for patients with schizophrenia in China.
METHODS: A microsimulation model was adapted from a healthcare payers' 
perspective. The model ran over a 1-year time horizon, using quarterly cycles. 
The costs of adverse events were acquired through a clinical expert panel. The 
average bidding prices in China of olanzapine-ODT, olanzapine-SOT, 
aripiprazole-SOT, and other switch alternatives were used. Inpatient and 
outpatient medical costs were sourced from the Urban Employee Basic Medical 
Insurance database in Tianjin. Additionally, adherence, efficacy, safety, and 
utility data were taken from the literature. Uncertainty of parameters were 
assessed through one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: The total annual costs per patient in aripiprazole-SOT arm, 
olanzapine-SOT arm, and olanzapine-ODT arm are USD 2,296.05, USD 1,940.05, and 
USD 2,292.81, respectively. The average number of relapses per patient in 1 year 
in the aripiprazole-SOT arm, olanzapine-SOT arm, and olanzapine-ODT arm, are 
0.734, 0.325, and 0.198, respectively. The quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
gained per patient in 1 year in the aripiprazole-SOT arm, olanzapine-SOT arm, 
and olanzapine-ODT arm are 0.714, 0.737, and 0.758, respectively. Consequently, 
(1) the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) of administrating 
olanzapine-ODT over olanzapine-SOT are USD 2,791.96 per relapse avoided and USD 
16,798.39 per QALY gained; and (2) the ICERs of using olanzapine-SOT over 
aripiprazole-SOT are USD -870.39 per relapse avoided and USD -15,477.93 per QALY 
gained. All ICERs are under the willingness-to-pay threshold in China of USD 
25,772.67. The sensitivity analyses confirmed the robustness of the results.
CONCLUSION: As the first-line treatment for schizophrenia in China, 
olanzapine-ODT is cost-effective compared to olanzapine-SOT and olanzapine-SOT 
is cost-effective compared to aripiprazole-SOT.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2019.1580714
PMID: 30732487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2019 Feb 7;20(1):54. doi:
10.1186/s12891-018-2389-8.

Reliability of four tests to assess body posture and the range of selected 
movements in individuals with spinal muscular atrophy.

Stępień A(1), Jędrzejowska M(2), Guzek K(3), Rekowski W(3), Stępowska J(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Rehabilitation, Józef Piłsudski University of Physical Education, 
Marymoncka 34, 00-968, Warsaw, Poland. orthosas@wp.pl.
(2)Mossakowski Medical Research Centre, Polish Academy of Sciences, 
Neuromuscular Unit, Pawińskiego 5, 02-106, Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Faculty of Rehabilitation, Józef Piłsudski University of Physical Education, 
Marymoncka 34, 00-968, Warsaw, Poland.

BACKGROUND: The majority of individuals with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) 
experience progressive skeletal deformities which may affect the quality of life 
and mobility. To date, no studies have evaluated the reliability of tests 
assessing body posture and joint mobility in SMA patients. The purpose of this 
study was to assess the reliability of Cervical Rotation test (CR), Supine Angle 
of Trunk Rotation test (SATR), Hip Extension test (HE) and Pelvic Obliquity test 
(PO) developed to evaluate the musculoskeletal system in SMA individuals.
METHODS: Thirty individuals (12 girls and 18 boys) aged 4-15 with SMA type II 
(n = 24) and III (n = 6) confirmed by genetic examinations were qualified for 
the study. The participants were examined twice by three physiotherapists on the 
same day. The examination included four tests, i.e. CR, SATR, HE and PO tests 
aimed at assessing ranges of rotation in the cervical spine, chest deformities, 
ranges of hip extension and pelvis position while sitting. Statistical 
calculations were made with the use of statistical software IBM SPSS Statistics 
version 20. Reliability was assessed using the Intraclass Correlation 
Coefficient (ICC).
RESULTS: Intraobserver reliability was excellent for CR (ICC range 0.839-0.911), 
SATR (ICC range 0.918-0.939 - the upper part of the sternum; ICC range 
0.951-0.975 - the lower part of the sternum), HE (ICC range 0.988-0,991) and PO 
(ICC range 0.896-0.935) tests. The interobserver ICC reached the excellent 
values in CR (ICC range 0.912-0.920), SATR (ICC = 0.888 - the upper part of the 
sternum, ICC = 0.951 - the lower part of the sternum), HE (ICC range 
0.922-0.923) and PO (ICC = 0.928) tests.
CONCLUSIONS: CR, SATR, HE and PO tests are reliable and may be used for 
examining individuals with SMA. The application of these tests provides a 
possibility to detect early changes in the musculoskeletal system in children 
and adolescents and to assess the effectiveness of the implemented 
pharmacotherapy and rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1186/s12891-018-2389-8
PMCID: PMC6367749
PMID: 30732590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: This 
study was approved by Senate Ethics Committee of the University of Physical 
Education in Warsaw (SKE 01–03/2016). Parents of all participants signed the 
consent form to participate. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable COMPETING 
INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing interests. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


834. J Behav Ther Exp Psychiatry. 2020 Jun;67:101453. doi: 
10.1016/j.jbtep.2019.01.005. Epub 2019 Jan 24.

Exposure therapy vs lifestyle intervention to reduce food cue reactivity and 
binge eating in obesity: A pilot study.

Schyns G(1), van den Akker K(2), Roefs A(2), Houben K(2), Jansen A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Psychological Science, Faculty of Psychology and 
Neuroscience, Maastricht University, P.O. Box 616, 6200 MD, Maastricht, the 
Netherlands. Electronic address: ghislaine.schyns@maastrichtuniversity.nl.
(2)Department of Clinical Psychological Science, Faculty of Psychology and 
Neuroscience, Maastricht University, P.O. Box 616, 6200 MD, Maastricht, the 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Learning models of overeating predict that exposure 
therapy is effective in reducing food cue reactivity and overeating. This pilot 
study tested an eight-session exposure therapy aimed at inhibitory learning vs. 
an active control condition aimed at lifestyle improvement for obesity 
(treatment-as-usual). Main outcomes are snacking behavior, eating 
psychopathology, food cue reactivity, and weight loss. Change in overeating 
expectancies was assessed as mediator for outcomes, and the associations between 
habituation of eating desires and outcomes were investigated in the exposure 
condition. Sleep quality was investigated as moderator for outcomes.
METHODS: 45 overweight women were randomly assigned to the exposure intervention 
or control condition. The main outcomes, overeating expectancies and sleep 
quality were re-assessed at post-treatment and three-month follow-up. 
Habituation of eating desires was measured during exposure sessions.
RESULTS: Compared to the control intervention, exposure led to a significantly 
stronger reduction in snacking behavior of exposed foods, though this effect did 
not generalize to non-exposed foods, and stronger binge eating frequency. The 
exposure condition lost significantly more weight at post-treatment and 
follow-up than the lifestyle condition. Changes of expectancies mediated the 
effect of condition on kcal consumption of exposed foods, while habituation 
during exposure was not related to better treatment outcome. Sleep quality did 
not moderate the effect of condition on treatment outcome.
LIMITATIONS: Small sample size and limited follow-up period.
CONCLUSIONS: This short exposure therapy reduced snacking behavior, binge eating 
and weight more than a lifestyle intervention and is therefore a recommendable 
intervention for obesity and overeating disorders.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbtep.2019.01.005
PMID: 30732912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Oral Oncol. 2019 Feb;89:59-65. doi: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2018.12.011. Epub
 2018 Dec 19.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of the oral cancer screening program in Taiwan.

Huang CC(1), Lin CN(2), Chung CH(3), Hwang JS(3), Tsai ST(1), Wang JD(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, 
College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan; Head and 
Neck Collaborative Oncology Group, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, 
College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Public Health, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, College 
of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(3)Institute of Statistical Science, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Public Health, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, College 
of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan; Departments of 
Internal Medicine and Environmental and Occupational Medicine, National Cheng 
Kung University Hospital, Tainan, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
jdwang121@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVES: We assess the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of the 
oral cancer (OC) screening program in Taiwan.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We interlinked the Cancer Registry, Mortality Registry, 
National Vital Statistics, reimbursement database of National Health Insurance, 
and the National Oral Cancer Screening database of Taiwan. A total of 40,092 
pathologically verified OC patients were identified and followed during 
2002-2014. After stratification by stages, lifetime survival curves were 
estimated by a rolling extrapolation algorithm to obtain life expectancy (LE), 
expected years of life lost (EYLL), and lifetime medical costs (LMC).
RESULTS: The LE for stages I-IV were 19.5, 14.0, 11.9, and 7.7 life-years, 
respectively, while those of EYLL were 7.3, 12.2, 15.4, and 18.7 life-years, 
respectively. The LMC for stages I-IV were US$ 65,752, 60,086, 53,675, and 
47,570, respectively. We assumed no life loss for stage 0 with LMC of US$ 5380 
spent for the first year after diagnosis. During 2010-2013, 967 out of the 
28,018 cases detected with abnormal oral pathology by screening were found to 
develop OC. The ICER of the screening program was US$ 28,516 per life-year 
saved, which could be improved to US$ 5579 per life-year saved if all cancers 
transformed from abnormal oral pathology were detected before stage I.
CONCLUSION: The ICER of the current OC screening program in Taiwan slightly 
exceeds 1 GDP (gross domestic product) per capita per life-year saved. Intensive 
follow-up and treatment for all patients with abnormal oral pathology would 
improve screening efficiency and effectiveness of prevention.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2018.12.011
PMID: 30732960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Vox Sang. 2019 Apr;114(3):198-206. doi: 10.1111/vox.12749. Epub 2019 Feb 7.

Ex vivo haemostatic capacity of plasma upon thawing and beyond: a comparison 
between fresh frozen plasma (FFP) and frozen plasma prepared from whole blood 
stored at room temperature up to 24 hours postcollection (RTFP24).

Ang AL(1)(2), Wong WH(2), Tan J(1), Ng HJ(1)(2), Tan CW(2), Kuperan P(1)(3), Lam 
S(1), Tan HH(1), Chua SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Blood Services Group, Health Sciences Authority, Singapore, Singapore.
(2)Department of Haematology, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore, Singapore.
(3)Department of Haematology, Tan Tock Seng Hospital, Singapore, Singapore.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: We compared the ex vivo haemostatic capacity of RTFP24 
with FFP upon thawing and >24 h post-thaw. We included thrombin generation (TG) 
as few studies had compared global haemostatic function, and most did not 
directly compare RTFP24 with FFP >24 h post-thaw.
MATERIALS/METHODS: Twenty units each of RTFP24 and FFP were measured for 
coagulation factors and thrombin generation upon thawing (D0) and 4 days 
post-thaw (D4). Labile factors were also measured from D1 to D3. 10 single 
cryoprecipitate units were each prepared from FFP and RTFP24, and measured for 
FXIII, FVIII and fibrinogen at D0.
RESULTS: At D0, RTFP24 was comparable to FFP except for lower FV, protein S, 
endogenous thrombin potential (ETP) and higher FXIII. These differences were 
likely clinically insignificant since 95% and 80% of RTFP24 met our laboratory's 
reference ranges for FV/protein S and ETP, respectively. There were no 
differences between RTFP24- and FFP-derived cryoprecipitate. At D4, RTFP24 was 
comparable to FFP except for lower FV, ETP, and higher FXI and FXIII. More 
RTFP24 than FFP had ETP lower than our laboratory's reference range (45% vs 
15%). Multiple coagulation factors and all TG parameters declined from their 
respective baselines. The percentage declines were comparable or less in RTFP24, 
except for protein C, fibrinogen and time to peak.
CONCLUSION: RTFP24 and FFP, and their derived cryoprecipitate have comparable 
haemostatic capacity upon thawing. RTFP24 has poorer TG potential than FFP >24 h 
post-thaw, not supporting universal extension of RTFP24's shelf life except to 
facilitate urgent transfusions for massive haemorrhage.

© 2019 International Society of Blood Transfusion.

DOI: 10.1111/vox.12749
PMID: 30734312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. PLoS One. 2019 Feb 8;14(2):e0211894. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0211894. 
eCollection 2019.

Living arrangements and disability-free life expectancy in the United States.

Chiu CT(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of European and American Studies, Academia Sinica, Taipei City, 
Taiwan.

No studies have investigated the association between living arrangements and 
disability-free life expectancy in the United States, nor worldwide. This study 
aims to examine the differences in total and disability-free life expectancy 
among older Americans according to living arrangements. Data from the Health and 
Retirement Study (1998 to 2014) for non-Hispanic whites aged 50 and over (N = 
21,612). Disability-free life expectancy by gender, living arrangement, and 
education are obtained from incidence-based multistate life tables. Overall, 
those who live only with their spouses/partners live 1-19 years longer with 3-25 
more years without disability and 1-7 fewer years with disability than do those 
with other living arrangements. Among those with the same living arrangement, 
the higher educated live up to 6 years longer with up to 8 more years in a 
disability-free state and up to 2 fewer years in a disabled state. The study 
shows strong association between living arrangement and disability-free life 
expectancy by gender and education. Long-term care policy should take into 
account the length of life with/without disability by living arrangements and 
socioeconomic status and make use of the potential family resources.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0211894
PMCID: PMC6368297
PMID: 30735515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


838. Joint Bone Spine. 2019 May;86(3):369-372. doi: 10.1016/j.jbspin.2019.01.017.
 Epub 2019 Feb 6.

Curative treatment of prosthetic joint infection in patients younger than 80 vs. 
80 or older.

Jamakorzyan C(1), Meyssonnier V(2), Kerroumi Y(3), Villain B(4), Heym B(5), 
Lhotellier L(4), Zeller V(2), Ziza JM(2), Marmor S(4).

Author information:
(1)Centre de référence des infections ostéo-articulaires complexes, groupe 
hospitalier Diaconesses-Croix Saint-Simon, 125, rue d'Avron, Paris 75020, 
France; Service de médecine interne et rhumatologie, groupe hospitalier 
Diaconesses-Croix Saint-Simon, 125, rue d'Avron, Paris 75020, France. Electronic 
address: chloejamakorzyan@gmail.com.
(2)Centre de référence des infections ostéo-articulaires complexes, groupe 
hospitalier Diaconesses-Croix Saint-Simon, 125, rue d'Avron, Paris 75020, 
France; Service de médecine interne et rhumatologie, groupe hospitalier 
Diaconesses-Croix Saint-Simon, 125, rue d'Avron, Paris 75020, France.
(3)Centre de référence des infections ostéo-articulaires complexes, groupe 
hospitalier Diaconesses-Croix Saint-Simon, 125, rue d'Avron, Paris 75020, 
France.
(4)Centre de référence des infections ostéo-articulaires complexes, groupe 
hospitalier Diaconesses-Croix Saint-Simon, 125, rue d'Avron, Paris 75020, 
France; Service de chirurgie osseuse et traumatologique, groupe hospitalier 
Diaconesses-Croix Saint-Simon, 125, rue d'Avron, Paris 75020, France.
(5)Centre de référence des infections ostéo-articulaires complexes, groupe 
hospitalier Diaconesses-Croix Saint-Simon, 125, rue d'Avron, Paris 75020, 
France; Laboratoire des centres de santé et hôpitaux d'Ile-de-France, groupe 
hospitalier Diaconesses-Croix Saint-Simon, 125, rue d'Avron, Paris 75020, 
France.

OBJECTIVE: Prosthetic joint infection (PJI) is a serious complication of joint 
replacement surgery. The major pharmacological and surgical treatments required 
by PJI increase the risk of peri-operative complications in elderly patients. 
The increase in life expectancy combined with procedural advances make these 
treatments possible even in the oldest patients. Here, our objective was to 
compare the characteristics and outcomes of curative PJI treatment in 
patients < 80 years vs. ≥ 80 years.
METHODS: A prospective single-center design was used to compare the 
characteristics and outcomes of curative treatment for hip or knee PJI in 
patients < 80 years and ≥ 80 years admitted in 2004-2014.
RESULTS: Of 765 patients admitted for PJI, 590 were < 80 years and 124 
were ≥ 80 years. Medical history and comorbidities were similar in the two 
groups. The older group had a significantly higher proportion of patients with 
American Society of Anesthesiologists Scores ≥ 3 and with streptococcal 
infection (20% vs. 13%, P < 0.05). After complete surgical excision and 
prolonged antibiotic therapy, the only event whose frequency differed 
significantly between the two groups was PJI-related death, which was more 
common in the older patients (6.5% vs. 0.8%, P < 0.05). The 2-year survival rate 
after one-stage exchange arthroplasty was > 90% in the  ≥80 year group.
CONCLUSION: Patients aged 80 years or older are eligible for the same curative 
pharmacological and surgical PJI treatments used in their younger counterparts. 
Before surgery, the risk/benefit ratio of the major surgical procedure required 
to treat PJI must be assessed on a case-by-case basis.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbspin.2019.01.017
PMID: 30735807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Expert Rev Endocrinol Metab. 2009 Sep;4(5):443-465. doi: 10.1586/eem.09.33.

Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2.

Lips CJ(1), van Veelen W(2), Links TP(3), Höppener JW(4).

Author information:
(1)a University Medical Center Utrecht, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Wassenaarseweg 109, 2596 CN The Hague, The Netherlands. lips05@zonnet.nl.
(2)b Erasmus Medical Center Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology PO Box 
2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam The Netherlands. w.vanveelen@erasmusmc.nl.
(3)c University Medical Center Groningen, Department of Internal Medicine, PO 
Box 30001, 9700 RB Groningen, The Netherlands. t.p.links@int.umcg.nl.
(4)d University Medical Center Utrecht Department of Metabolic and Endocrine 
Diseases & Netherlands Metabolomics Centre, Utrecht KC-02.069.1, PO Box 85090, 
3508 AB Utrecht, The Netherlands. j.w.m.hoeppener@umcutrecht.nl.

Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN 2) is an autosomal dominantly inherited 
tumor syndrome subclassified into three distinct syndromes: MEN 2A, MEN 2B and 
familial medullary thyroid carcinoma. In MEN 2 families, medullary thyroid 
carcinoma, pheochromocytomas and parathyroid adenomas occur with a variable 
frequency, also depending on the specific genetic defect involved. In 1993, the 
responsible MEN2 gene was identified. The genetic defect in these disorders 
involves the RET proto-oncogene on chromosome 10. The germline RET mutations 
result in a gain-of-function of the RET protein. Extensive studies on large 
families revealed that there is a strong genotype-phenotype correlation. In this 
review, guidelines for early diagnosis, including MEN2 gene mutation analysis, 
and treatment, including preventive surgery, periodic and clinical monitoring, 
have been formulated, enabling improvement of life expectancy and quality of 
life. Identification of the RET protein has also provided new insights into its 
function, and the specific pathways it effects involved in cell proliferation, 
migration, differentiation and survival. In the near future, identification of 
biological tumor markers will enable target-directed intervention and may 
prevent and/or delay progression of both primary and residual tumor growth.

DOI: 10.1586/eem.09.33
PMID: 30736185


840. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2019 Feb 6;16(3):473. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph16030473.

A Projection of Future Hospitalisation Needs in a Rapidly Ageing Society: A Hong 
Kong Experience.

Wu X(1), Law CK(2), Yip PSF(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC 3010, 
Australia. xueyuanw@unimelb.edu.au.
(2)Centre for Applied Health Economics, Menzies Health Institute Queensland, 
School of Medicine, Griffith University, Nathan, QLD 4111, Australia. 
c.law1@griffith.edu.au.
(3)Department of Social Work and Social Administration, The University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong, China. sfpyip@hku.hk.

To assess the impact of ageing on hospitalisation in a rapidly ageing society. A 
study using retrospective and prospective data was conducted using 
hospitalisation data with age-specific admission rates in the period from 
2001⁻2010 and demographic data from the period of 2001⁻2066 by the United 
Nations. The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR) with a 7 million 
population experiences extreme low fertility (1.1 children per woman) and long 
life expectancy (84 years old). Days of hospitalisation: For the period 
2010⁻2066, the length of stay (LOS) in the age group 85+ is projected to 
increase by 555.3% while the LOS for the whole population is expected to 
increase by only 134.4% and by ageing only. In 2010, the proportion in the LOS 
contributed to by the oldest age group (85+) was 15%. In 2066, this proportion 
is projected to nearly triple (42%). Around 70% of the projected days of 
