authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


917. Soins Gerontol. 2019 Jan-Feb;24(135):32-34. doi: 10.1016/j.sger.2018.11.009.

[The post-cancer period in geriatric oncology].

[Article in French]

Retornaz F(1), Farcet A(2), Suner M(2), Viegler L(2), Rousseau F(3).

Author information:
(1)Unité de coordination en oncogériatrie, Centre gérontologique départemental, 
176, avenue de Montolivet, 13012 Marseille, France; Unité de soins et de 
recherche en médecine interne et maladies infectieuses, Hôpital européen, 6 rue 
Désirée-Clary, 13003 Marseille, France. Electronic address: 
frederique.retornaz@free.fr.
(2)Unité de coordination en oncogériatrie, Centre gérontologique départemental, 
176, avenue de Montolivet, 13012 Marseille, France.
(3)Unité de coordination en oncogériatrie, Institut Paoli-Calmette, 232 
boulevard de Sainte-Marguerite, 13009 Marseille, France.

The increase in life expectancy together with the increased survival of patients 
with cancer is resulting in the emergence of a new population: that of cancer 
survivors whose health status is inferior to that of people not affected by this 
disease. The interaction between the cancer, the sequelae of the different 
treatments and other ageing-related health problems requires joint reflection on 
the best way of caring for this emerging geriatric population.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sger.2018.11.009
PMID: 30765085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Fed Pract. 2015 May;32(Suppl 4):12S-16S.

Palliative Radiotherapy for the Management of Metastatic Cancer: Bone 
Metastases, Spinal Cord Compression, and Brain Metastases.

Gutt R(1), Dawson G(1), Cheuk AV(1), Fosmire H(1), Moghanaki D(1), Kelly M(1), 
Jolly S(1).

Author information:
(1)is a radiation oncologist at the Washington DC VAMC. and are radiation 
oncologists at the James J. Peters VAMC in the Bronx, New York, and assistant 
professors at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York. and Dr. Dawson are 
radiation oncologists at the New Jersey VAHCS in East Orange, New Jersey. is a 
radiation oncologist at the Richard L. Roudebush VAMC in Indianapolis, Indiana. 
is a radiation oncologist at the Hunter Holmes McGuire VAMC and an assistant 
professor at Virginia Commonwealth University Massey Cancer Center, both in 
Richmond, Virginia. is a radiation oncologist at the VA Ann Arbor HCS in and an 
associate professor at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

Life expectancy and tumor characteristics should be considered when making 
treatment recommendations for palliative radiotherapy, which can be 
cost-effective and provide symptom relief.

PMCID: PMC6375451
PMID: 30766118

Conflict of interest statement: Author disclosures The authors report no actual 
or potential conflicts of interest with regard to this article.


919. Fed Pract. 2015 May;32(Suppl 4):41S-44S.

Prostate Cancer in Seniors: Part 1: Epidemiology, Pathology, and Screening.

Chin HW(1), Kim J(1), Rasp G(1), Hristov B(1).

Author information:
(1)was chief of radiation oncology at the Dayton VAMC and a clinical professor 
at the Boomshoft School of Medicine of Wright State University, both in Dayton, 
Ohio. is chief of radiation oncology at John D. Dingell VAMC in Detroit, 
Michigan. and are assistant professors at Boonshot Medical School of Wright 
State University. Dr. Hristov is also chief of radiation oncology at Wright 
Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio.

Patients and clinicians should carefully weigh risk factors, life expectancy, 
and existing medical comorbidities when making screening and treatment decisions 
for prostate cancer.

PMCID: PMC6375450
PMID: 30766120

Conflict of interest statement: Author disclosures The authors report no actual 
or potential conflicts of interest with regard to this article.


920. Fed Pract. 2015 Aug;32(Suppl 7):36S-40S.

Prostate Cancer in Male Seniors Part 2: Treatment.

Chin HW(1), Kim J(1), Rasp G(1), Hristov B(1).

Author information:
(1)was chief of radiation oncology at the Dayton VAMC and a clinical professor 
at the Boomshoft School of Medicine of Wright State University, both in Dayton, 
Ohio. is chief of radiation oncology at John D. Dingell VAMC in Detroit, 
Michigan. and are assistant professors at Boonshoft Medical School of Wright 
State University. Dr. Hristov is also the chief of radiation oncology at Wright 
Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio.

Treatment decisions for patients with prostate cancer should be based on a 
patient's health status, including life expectancy, functional performance, and 
comorbidities.

PMCID: PMC6375430
PMID: 30766128

Conflict of interest statement: Author disclosures The authors report no actual 
or potential conflicts of interest with regard to this article.


921. Muscle Nerve. 2019 Jul;60(1):14-24. doi: 10.1002/mus.26447. Epub 2019 Mar 8.

Long-term safety and efficacy of eculizumab in generalized myasthenia gravis.

Muppidi S(1), Utsugisawa K(2), Benatar M(3), Murai H(4), Barohn RJ(5), Illa 
I(6)(7), Jacob S(8), Vissing J(9), Burns TM(10), Kissel JT(11), Nowak RJ(12), 
Andersen H(13), Casasnovas C(7)(14), de Bleecker JL(15), Vu TH(16), Mantegazza 
R(17), O'Brien FL(18), Wang JJ(18), Fujita KP(18), Howard JF Jr(19); Regain 
Study Group.

Collaborators: Mazia CG, Wilken M, Barroso F, Saba J, Rugiero M, Bettini M, 
Chaves M, Vidal G, Garcia AD, Van den Abeele G, de Koning K, De Mey K, Mercelis 
R, Mahieu D, Wagemaekers L, Van Damme P, Depreitere A, Schotte C, Smetcoren C, 
Stevens O, Van Daele S, Vandenbussche N, Vanhee A, Verjans S, Vynckier J, 
D'Hondt A, Tilkin P, Alves de Siqueira Carvalho A, Dias Brockhausen I, Feder D, 
Ambrosio D, César P, Melo AP, Martins Ribeiro R, Rocha R, Bezerra Rosa B, Veiga 
T, da Silva LA, Santos Engel M, Gonçalves Geraldo J, Ananias Morita MDP, 
Nogueira Coelho E, Paiva G, Pozo M, Prando N, Martineli Torres DD, Butinhao CF, 
Duran G, Gomes da Silva TC, Otavio Maia Gonçalves L, Pazetto LE, Fialho TAS, 
Renata Cubas Volpe L, Souza Duca L, Gheller Friedrich MA, Guerreiro A, Mohr H, 
Pereira Martins M, da Cruz Pacheco D, Ferreira L, Macagnan AP, Pinto G, de 
Cassia Santos A, Souza Bulle Oliveira A, Amaral Andrade AC, Annes M, Duarte 
Silva L, Cavalcante Lino V, Pinto W, Assis N, Carrara F, Miranda C, Souza I, 
Fernandes P, Siddiqi Z, Phan C, Narayan J, Blackmore D, Mallon A, Roderus R, 
Watt E, Vohanka S, Bednarik J, Chmelikova M, Cierny M, Toncrova S, Junkerova J, 
Kurkova B, Reguliova K, Zapletalova O, Pitha J, Novakova I, Tyblova M, Jurajdova 
I, Wolfova M, Harbo T, Vinge L, Krogh S, Mogensen A, Højgaard J, Witting N, 
Ostergaard Autzen A, Pedersen J, Eralinna JP, Laaksonen M, Oksaranta O, Harrison 
T, Eriksson J, Rozsa C, Horvath M, Lovas G, Matolcsi J, Szabo G, Jakab G, 
Szabadosne B, Vecsei L, Dezsi L, Varga E, Konyane M, Antonini G, Di Pasquale A, 
Garibaldi M, Morino S, Troili F, Fionda L, Filla A, Costabile T, Marano E, Saccà 
F, Fasanaro A, Marsili A, Puorro G, Antozzi C, Bonanno S, Camera G, Locatelli A, 
Maggi L, Pasanisi M, Campanella A, Evoli A, Alboini PE, D'Amato V, Iorio R, 
Inghilleri M, Fionda L, Frasca V, Giacomelli E, Gori M, Lopergolo D, Onesti E, 
Frasca V, Gabriele M, Uzawa A, Kanai T, Kawaguchi N, Mori M, Kaneko Y, Kanzaki 
A, Kobayashi E, Masaki K, Matsuse D, Matsushita T, Uehara T, Shimpo M, Jingu M, 
Kikutake K, Nakamura Y, Sano Y, Nagane Y, Kamegamori I, Tsuda T, Fujii Y, Futono 
K, Ozawa Y, Mizugami A, Saito Y, Suzuki H, Morikawa M, Samukawa M, Kamakura S, 
Miyawaki E, Shiraishi H, Mitazaki T, Motomura M, Mukaino A, Yoshimura S, Asada 
S, Yoshida S, Amamoto S, Kobashikawa T, Koga M, Maeda Y, Takada K, Takada M, 
Tsurumaru M, Yamashita Y, Suzuki Y, Akiyama T, Narikawa K, Tano O, Tsukita K, 
Kurihara R, Meguro F, Fukuda Y, Sato M, Okumura M, Funaka S, Kawamura T, 
Makamori M, Takahashi M, Taichi N, Hasuike T, Higuchi E, Kobayashi H, Osakada K, 
Imai T, Tsuda E, Shimohama S, Hayashi T, Hisahara S, Kawamata J, Murahara T, 
Saitoh M, Suzuki S, Yamamoto D, Ishiyama Y, Ishiyama N, Noshiro M, Takeyama R, 
Uwasa K, Yasuda I, van der Kooi A, de Visser M, Gibson T, Kim BJ, Lee CN, Koo 
YS, Seok HY, Kang HN, Ra H, Kim BJ, Cho EB, Choi M, Lee H, Min JH, Seok J, Lee 
J, Koh DY, Kwon J, Park S, Choi EH, Hong YH, Ahn SH, Koo DL, Lim JS, Shin CW, 
Hwang JY, Kim M, Kim SM, Jeong HN, Jung J, Kim YH, Lee HS, Shin HY, Hwang EB, 
Shin M, Alberti Aguilo MA, Homedes-Pedret C, Julia Palacios N, Diez Porras L, 
Velez Santamaria V, Lazaro A, Diez Tejedor E, Gomez Salcedo P, 
Fernandez-Fournier M, Lopez Ruiz P, Rodriguez de Rivera FJ, Sastre M, Gamez J, 
Sune P, Salvado M, Gili G, Mazuela G, Cortes Vicente E, Diaz-Manera J, Querol 
Gutierrez LA, Rojas Garcia R, Vidal N, Arribas-Ibar E, Piehl F, Hietala A, 
Bjarbo L, Sengun I, Meherremova A, Ozcelik P, Balkan B, Tuga C, Ugur M, 
Erdem-Ozdamar S, Bekircan-Kurt CE, Acar NP, Yilmaz E, Caliskan Y, Orsel G, 
Efendi H, Aydinlik S, Cavus H, Kutlu A, Becerikli G, Semiz C, Tun O, Terzi M, 
Dogan B, Onar MK, Sen S, Kirbas Cavdar T, Veske A, Norwood F, Dimitriou A, 
Gollogly J, Mahdi-Rogers M, Seddigh A, Sokratous G, Maier G, Sohail F, Sadalage 
G, Torane P, Brown C, Shah A, Sathasivam S, Arndt H, Davies D, Watling D, Amato 
A, Cochrane T, Salajegheh M, Roe K, Amato K, Toska S, Wolfe G, Silvestri N, 
Patrick K, Zakalik K, Katz J, Miller R, Engel M, Forshew D, Bravver E, Brooks B, 
Plevka S, Burdette M, Cunningham S, Sanjak M, Kramer M, Nemeth J, Schommer C, 
Tierney S, Juel V, Guptill J, Hobson-Webb L, Massey J, Beck K, Carnes D, Loor J, 
Anderson A, Pascuzzi R, Bodkin C, Kincaid J, Snook R, Guingrich S, Micheels A, 
Chaudhry V, Corse A, Mosmiller B, Kelley A, Ho D, Srinivasan J, Vytopil M, Jara 
J, Ventura N, Scala S, Carter C, Donahue C, Herbert C, Weiner E, Alam S, 
McKinnon J, Haar L, McKinnon N, Alcon K, McKenna K, Sattar N, Daniels K, Jeffery 
D, Freimer M, Hoyle JC, Agriesti J, Chelnick S, Mezache L, Pineda C, Muharrem F, 
Karam C, Khoury J, Marburger T, Kaur H, Dimitrova D, Gilchrist J, Agrawal B, 
Elsayed M, Kohlrus S, Andoin A, Darnell T, Golden L, Lokaitis B, Seelback J, 
Goyal N, Sakamuri S, So YT, Paulose S, Pol S, Welsh L, Bhavaraju-Sanka R, Tobon 
Gonzales A, Dishman L, Jones F, Gonzalez A, Padilla P, Saklad A, Silva M, 
Nations S, Trivedi J, Hopkins S, Kazamel M, Alsharabati M, Lu L, Nozaki K, 
Mumfrey-Thomas S, Woodall A, Mozaffar T, Cash T, Goyal N, Roy G, Mathew V, 
Maqsood F, Minton B, Jones HJ, Rosenfeld J, Garcia R, Echevarria L, Garcia S, 
Pulley M, Aranke S, Berger AR, Shah J, Shabbir Y, Smith L, Varghese M, Gutmann 
L, Gutmann L, Jerath N, Nance C, Swenson A, Olalde H, Kressin N, Sieren J, 
Dimachkie M, Glenn M, McVey A, Pasnoor M, Statland J, Wang Y, Liu T, Emmons K, 
Jenci N, Locheke J, Fondaw A, Johns K, Rico G, Walsh M, Herbelin L, Hafer-Macko 
C, Kwan J, Zilliox L, Callison K, Young V, DiSanzo B, Naunton K, Bilsker M, 
Sharma K, Cooley A, Reyes E, Michon SC, Sheldon D, Steele J, Karam C, Chopra M, 
Traub R, Katzin L, McClain T, Harvey B, Hart A, Huynh K, Beydoun S, Chilingaryan 
A, Doan V, Droker B, Gong H, Karimi S, Lin F, McClain T, Pokala K, Shah A, Tran 
A, Akhter S, Malekniazi A, Tandan R, Hehir M, Waheed W, Lucy S, Weiss M, Distad 
J, Strom S, Downing S, Kim B, Bertorini T, Arnold T, Hendersen K, Pillai R, Liu 
Y, Wheeler L, Hewlett J, Vanderhook M, Dicapua D, Keung B, Kumar A, Patwa H, 
Robeson K, Yang I, Nye J, Vu H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurosciences, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, California, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Hanamaki General Hospital, Hanamaki, Japan.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, 
Miami, Florida, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, International University of Health and Welfare, 
Narita, Japan.
(5)Department of Neurology, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, 
Kansas, USA.
(6)Neurology Department, Hospital Sant Pau, Autonomous University of Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Raras (CIBERER), 
Spain.
(8)Queen Elizabeth Neuroscience Centre and Wellcome Trust Clinical Research 
Facility, University Hospital Birmingham, Birmingham, United Kingdom.
(9)Department of Neurology, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(10)Department of Neurology, University of Virginia Health System, 
Charlottesville, Virginia, USA.
(11)Department of Neurology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio, USA.
(12)Department of Neurology, Yale School of Medicine, Yale University, New 
Haven, Connecticut, USA.
(13)Department of Neurology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.
(14)Department of Neurology, Bellvitge University Hospital, Barcelona, Spain.
(15)Neuromuscular Reference Centre, Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium.
(16)Department of Neurology, University of South Florida, Tampa, Florida, USA.
(17)Foundation of the Carlo Besta Neurological Institute, IRCSS, Milan, Italy.
(18)Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(19)Department of Neurology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina, USA.

Comment in
    Muscle Nerve. 2019 Jul;60(1):7-9.

INTRODUCTION: Eculizumab is effective and well tolerated in patients with 
antiacetylcholine receptor antibody-positive refractory generalized myasthenia 
gravis (gMG; REGAIN; NCT01997229). We report an interim analysis of an 
open-label extension of REGAIN, evaluating eculizumab's long-term safety and 
efficacy.
METHODS: Eculizumab (1,200 mg every 2 weeks for 22.7 months [median]) was 
administered to 117 patients.
RESULTS: The safety profile of eculizumab was consistent with REGAIN; no cases 
of meningococcal infection were reported during the interim analysis period. 
Myasthenia gravis exacerbation rate was reduced by 75% from the year before 
REGAIN (P < 0.0001). Improvements with eculizumab in activities of daily living, 
muscle strength, functional ability, and quality of life in REGAIN were 
maintained through 3 years; 56% of patients achieved minimal manifestations or 
pharmacological remission. Patients who had received placebo during REGAIN 
experienced rapid and sustained improvements during open-label eculizumab 
(P < 0.0001).
DISCUSSION: These findings provide evidence for the long-term safety and 
sustained efficacy of eculizumab for refractory gMG. Muscle Nerve 2019.

© 2019 The Authors. Muscle & Nerve published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mus.26447
PMCID: PMC6619057
PMID: 30767274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Med Decis Making. 2019 Apr;39(3):239-252. doi: 10.1177/0272989X19829735.
Epub  2019 Feb 15.

Personalizing Second-Line Type 2 Diabetes Treatment Selection: Combining Network 
Meta-analysis, Individualized Risk, and Patient Preferences for Unified Decision 
Support.

Choi SE(1), Berkowitz SA(2), Yudkin JS(3), Naci H(4), Basu S(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Health Policy and Epidemiology, Harvard School of Dental 
Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Division of General Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(3)University College London, London, UK.
(4)London School of Economics, London, UK.
(5)Center for Primary Care and Outcomes Research and Center for Population 
Health Sciences, Departments of Medicine and of Health Research and Policy, 
Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(6)Center for Primary Care, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(7)School of Public Health, Imperial College, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Personalizing medical treatment often requires practitioners to 
compare multiple treatment options, assess a patient's unique risk and benefit 
from each option, and elicit a patient's preferences around treatment. We 
integrated these 3 considerations into a decision-modeling framework for the 
selection of second-line glycemic therapy for type 2 diabetes.
METHODS: Based on multicriteria decision analysis, we developed a unified 
treatment decision support tool accounting for 3 factors: patient preferences, 
disease outcomes, and medication efficacy and safety profiles. By standardizing 
and multiplying these 3 factors, we calculated the ranking score for each 
medication. This approach was applied to determining second-line glycemic 
therapy by integrating 1) treatment efficacy and side-effect data from a network 
meta-analysis of 301 randomized trials ( N = 219,277), 2) validated risk 
equations for type 2 diabetes complications, and 3) patient preferences around 
treatment (e.g., to avoid daily glucose testing). Data from participants with 
type 2 diabetes in the U.S. National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 
(NHANES 2003-2014, N = 1107) were used to explore variations in treatment 
recommendations and associated quality-adjusted life-years given different 
patient features.
RESULTS: Patients at the highest microvascular disease risk had glucagon-like 
peptide 1 agonists or basal insulin recommended as top choices, whereas those 
wanting to avoid an injected medication or daily glucose testing had 
sodium-glucose linked transporter 2 or dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitors 
commonly recommended, and those with major cost concerns had sulfonylureas 
commonly recommended. By converting from the most common sulfonylurea treatment 
to the model-recommended treatment, NHANES participants were expected to save an 
average of 0.036 quality-adjusted life-years per person (about a half month) 
from 10 years of treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Models can help integrate meta-analytic treatment effect estimates 
with individualized risk calculations and preferences, to aid personalized 
treatment selection.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X19829735
PMCID: PMC6469997
PMID: 30767632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interests: All authors have no 
potential conflicts to disclose.


923. BMC Pharmacol Toxicol. 2019 Feb 15;20(1):11. doi: 10.1186/s40360-019-0291-0.

Burden of paraquat poisoning in the department of Antioquia, Colombia.

Buendía JA(1), Chavarriaga GJR(2), Zuluaga AF(2).

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Investigación en farmacología y toxicología, Centro de Información y 
Estudio de Medicamentos y Tóxicos (CIEMTO), Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de 
Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia. jefferson.buendia@gmail.com.
(2)Grupo de Investigación en farmacología y toxicología, Centro de Información y 
Estudio de Medicamentos y Tóxicos (CIEMTO), Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de 
Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.

BACKGROUND: Paraquat (PQ) poisoning is a public health problem in many regions 
of Colombia. This study aimed to estimate the burden of PQ poisoning in the 
Department of Antioquia, Colombia.
METHODS: Disability-adjusted life year (DALYs) were calculated as the sum of 
years of life lost (YLL) and years of life lived with disability (YLD) due to 
paraquat poisoning in Antioquia; a bootstrapped method with 1000 iterations was 
used to estimate each statistical parameter using the package DALY calculator in 
R. For this instance, the annual incidence of paraquat poisoning was obtained 
from the reported surveillance data according to regional Government.
RESULTS: From 2010 to 2016, 3299 DALYs were estimated in the department of 
Antioquia for PQ intoxication, with a rate of 53.4 DALYs per 100,000 
inhabitants. The majority of the DALYs (2852 DALYs) were generated for men 
ranging from 15 to 44 years old.
CONCLUSION: The rate of DALYs reported here is higher than that reported by all 
chemical poisonings. Better strategies to regulate and restrict the market of 
this dangerous products are required in Colombia.

DOI: 10.1186/s40360-019-0291-0
PMCID: PMC6376738
PMID: 30767779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL: This study was approved by the 
Institutional Review Board of University of Antioquia (2015–4690). CONSENT FOR 
PUBLICATION: All authors consent this paper for publication. COMPETING 
INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing interests. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


924. Health Promot Chronic Dis Prev Can. 2019 Feb;39(2):56-60. doi: 
10.24095/hpcdp.39.2.03.

At-a-glance - The impact of poisoning-related mortality on life expectancy at 
birth in Canada, 2000 to 2016.

Orpana HM(1)(2), Lang JJ(1), George D(1), Halverson J(1).

Author information:
(1)Public Health Agency of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(2)School of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, 
Ontario, Canada.

Increases in opioid-related mortality have contributed to declines in life 
expectancy at birth in the United States and British Columbia. Canadian national 
mortality data from 2000 to 2016 were analyzed to determine the contribution of 
poisoning-related mortality to changes in life expectancy at birth by age group 
and sex. From 2000 to 2016, life expectancy at birth increased by almost three 
years; however, mortality due to unintentional poisonings, including those 
involving opioids, curbed this increase by 0.16 years. Although a national 
decrease in life expectancy at birth has not been observed in Canada during this 
period, current trends suggest that the national opioid overdose crisis will 
continue to attenuate gains to life expectancy.

Publisher: L’augmentation de la mortalité liée aux opioïdes a contribué à des 
baisses de l’espérance de vie à la naissance aux États-Unis et en 
Colombie-Britannique. Nous avons analysé les données nationales sur la mortalité 
au Canada entre 2000 et 2016 afin de déterminer dans quelle mesure les décès 
liés aux intoxications avaient influencé l’espérance de vie à la naissance selon 
le groupe d’âge et le sexe. Entre 2000 et 2016, l’espérance de vie à la 
naissance a augmenté de presque trois ans, mais la mortalité attribuable aux 
intoxications accidentelles, dont celles par opioïdes, a réduit cette hausse de 
0,16 an. Même si l’espérance de vie à la naissance n’a pas globalement diminué 
au Canada pendant cette période, les tendances actuelles laissent présager que 
la crise nationale des surdoses d’opioïdes va continuer à amoindrir les gains 
relatifs à l’espérance de vie.

DOI: 10.24095/hpcdp.39.2.03
PMCID: PMC6394823
PMID: 30767855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest to report.


925. Health Promot Chronic Dis Prev Can. 2019 Feb;39(2):64. doi: 
10.24095/hpcdp.39.2.06.

Correction: At-a-glance - Impact of drug overdose-related deaths on life 
expectancy at birth in British Columbia.

Health Promotion and Chronic Disease Prevention in Canada editorial staff.

Erratum for
    Health Promot Chronic Dis Prev Can. 2018 Jun;38(6):248-251.

[This erratum is being published to correct a reference error on page 248 of the 
following article: https://doi.org/10.24095/hpcdp.38.6.05].

Publisher: [Cet erratum vise à corriger une erreur de référence ayant paru à la 
page 282 de l’article suivant : https://doi.org/10.24095/hpcdp.38.6.05f].

DOI: 10.24095/hpcdp.39.2.06
PMCID: PMC6394821
PMID: 30767858


926. J Spinal Cord Med. 2020 Sep;43(5):594-606. doi:
10.1080/10790268.2019.1570436.  Epub 2019 Feb 15.

Effect of reverse manual wheelchair propulsion on shoulder kinematics, kinetics 
and muscular activity in persons with paraplegia.

Haubert LL(1), Mulroy SJ(1), Requejo PS(1), Maneekobkunwong S(1), Gronley JK(1), 
Rankin JW(1), Rodriguez D(1), Hong K(1).

Author information:
(1)Pathokinesiology Lab, Rancho Los Amigos National Rehabilitation Center, 
Downey, California, USA.

Objective: Shoulder pain after spinal cord injury (SCI) is attributed to 
increased mobility demands on the arms and negatively impacts independence and 
quality of life. Repetitive superior and posterior shoulder joint forces 
produced during traditional wheelchair (WC) locomotion can result in subacromial 
impingement if unopposed, as with muscular fatigue or weakness. ROWHEELS® (RW), 
geared rear wheels that produce forward WC movement with backward rim pulling, 
could alter these forces. Design: Cross sectional. Setting: Research laboratory 
at a rehabilitation hospital. Participants: Ten manual WC users with paraplegia. 
Outcome measures: Propulsion characteristics and right upper extremity/trunk 
kinematics and shoulder muscle activity were collected during ergometer 
propulsion: (1) self-selected free speed reverse propulsion with RW, (2) 
matched-speed reverse (rSW), and (3) forward propulsion (fSW) with instrumented 
Smartwheels (SW). Inverse dynamics using right-side SW rim kinetics and 
kinematics compared shoulder kinetics during rSW and fSW. Results: Free 
propulsion velocity, cycle distance and cadence were similar during RW, rSW and 
fSW. Overall shoulder motion was similar except that peak shoulder extension was 
significantly reduced in both RW and rSW versus fSW. Anteriorly and inferiorly 
directed SW rim forces were decreased during rSW versus fSW propulsion, but 
posteriorly and superiorly directed rim forces were significantly greater. 
Superior and posterior shoulder joint forces and flexor, adductor, and external 
rotation moments were significantly less during rSW, without a significant 
difference in net shoulder forces and moments. Traditional propulsive-phase 
muscle activity was significantly reduced and recovery-phase muscle activity was 
increased during reverse propulsion. Conclusion: These results suggest that 
reverse propulsion may redirect shoulder demands and prevent subacromial 
impingement, thereby preventing injury and preserving independent mobility for 
individuals with paraplegia.

DOI: 10.1080/10790268.2019.1570436
PMCID: PMC7534316
PMID: 30768378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2019 Jun;220(6):590.e1-590.e10. doi: 
10.1016/j.ajog.2019.02.017. Epub 2019 Feb 12.

Induction of labor at 39 weeks of gestation versus expectant management for 
low-risk nulliparous women: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Hersh AR(1), Skeith AE(2), Sargent JA(2), Caughey AB(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oregon Health & Science University, 
Portland, OR. Electronic address: hersha@ohsu.edu.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oregon Health & Science University, 
Portland, OR.

Erratum in
    Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2019 Nov 26;:

BACKGROUND: A large, recent multicenter trial found that induction of labor at 
39 weeks for low-risk nulliparous women was not associated with an increased 
risk of cesarean delivery or adverse neonatal outcomes.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to examine the cost-effectiveness and outcomes associated 
with induction of labor at 39 weeks vs expectant management for low-risk 
nulliparous women in the United States.
STUDY DESIGN: A cost-effectiveness model using TreeAge software was designed to 
compare outcomes in women who were induced at 39 weeks vs expectantly managed. 
We used a theoretical cohort of 1.6 million women, the approximate number of 
nulliparous term births in the United States annually that are considered low 
risk. Outcomes included mode of delivery, hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, 
macrosomia, stillbirth, permanent brachial plexus injury, and neonatal death, in 
addition to cost and quality-adjusted life years for both the woman and neonate. 
Model inputs were derived from the literature, and a cost-effectiveness 
threshold was set at $100,000/quality-adjusted life years.
RESULTS: In our theoretical cohort of 1.6 million women, induction of labor 
resulted in 54,498 fewer cesarean deliveries and 79,152 fewer cases of 
hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. We also found that induction of labor 
resulted in 795 fewer cases of stillbirth and 11 fewer neonatal deaths, despite 
86 additional cases of brachial plexus injury. Induction of labor resulted in 
increased costs but increased quality-adjusted life years with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $87,691.91 per quality-adjusted life year. In 
sensitivity analysis, if the cost of induction of labor was increased by $180, 
elective induction would no longer be cost effective. Similarly, we found that 
if the rate of cesarean delivery was the same in both strategies, elective 
induction of labor at 39 weeks would not be a cost-effective strategy. In 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis via Monte Carlo simulation, we found that 
induction of labor was cost effective only 65% of the time.
CONCLUSION: In our theoretical cohort, induction of labor in nulliparous term 
women at 39 weeks of gestation resulted in improved outcomes but increased 
costs. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was marginally cost effective 
but would lead to an additional 2 billion dollars of healthcare costs. Whether 
individual clinicians and healthcare systems offer routine induction of labor at 
39 weeks will need to depend on local capacity, careful evaluation and 
allocation of healthcare resources, and patient preferences. KEY WORDS: cesarean 
delivery, decision analysis, healthcare resources, induction of labor, low-risk 
nulliparous women, mode of delivery, obstetric outcomes.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2019.02.017
PMID: 30768934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Toxins (Basel). 2019 Feb 15;11(2):118. doi: 10.3390/toxins11020118.

NaCl Inhibits Citrinin and Stimulates Monascus Pigments and Monacolin K 
Production.

Zhen Z(1), Xiong X(2), Liu Y(3), Zhang J(4), Wang S(5), Li L(6), Gao M(7).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science, Yangtze University, Jingzhou 434025, Hubei, China. 
zhenzhixin@yangtzeu.edu.cn.
(2)College of Life Science, Yangtze University, Jingzhou 434025, Hubei, China. 
201672408@yangtzeu.edu.cn.
(3)College of Life Science, Yangtze University, Jingzhou 434025, Hubei, China. 
liuyingbao@yangtzeu.edu.cn.
(4)College of Life Science, Yangtze University, Jingzhou 434025, Hubei, China. 
zhangjl@yangtzeu.edu.cn.
(5)College of Life Science, Yangtze University, Jingzhou 434025, Hubei, China. 
shaojinwang@nwafu.edu.cn.
(6)College of Life Science, Yangtze University, Jingzhou 434025, Hubei, China. 
lily2012@yangtzeu.edu.cn.
(7)College of Life Science, Yangtze University, Jingzhou 434025, Hubei, China. 
mgao@yangtzeu.edu.cn.

Erratum in
    Toxins (Basel). 2019 Mar 27;11(4):

Applications of beneficial secondary metabolites produced by Monascus purpureus 
(M. purpureus) could be greatly limited for citrinin, a kidney toxin. The link 
of NaCl with cell growth and secondary metabolites in M. purpureus was analyzed 
with supplementations of different concentrations of NaCl in medium. The content 
of citrinin was reduced by 48.0% but the yellow, orange, red pigments and 
monacolin K productions were enhanced by 1.7, 1.4, 1.4 and 1.4 times, 
respectively, compared with those in the control using NaCl at 0.02 M at the 
10th day of cultivation. NaCl didn't affect the cell growth of M. purpureus. 
This was verified through the transcriptional up-regulation of citrinin 
synthesis genes (pksCT and ctnA) and the down-regulation of the Monascus 
pigments (MPs) synthesis genes (pksPT and pigR). Moreover, the reactive oxygen 
species (ROS) levels were promoted by NaCl at the 2nd day of cultivation, and 
then inhibited remarkably with the extension of fermentation time. Meanwhile, 
the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT), and the 
contents of total glutathione (T-GSH) were significantly enhanced in the middle 
and late stages of cultivation. The inhibition effect on colony size and the 
growth of aerial mycelia was more obvious with an increased NaCl concentration. 
Acid and alkaline phosphatase (ACP and AKP) activities dramatically increased in 
NaCl treatments. NaCl could participate in secondary metabolites synthesis and 
cell growth in M. purpureus.

DOI: 10.3390/toxins11020118
PMCID: PMC6409629
PMID: 30769930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


929. Ann Pharmacother. 2019 Aug;53(8):812-832. doi: 10.1177/1060028019833038.
Epub  2019 Feb 15.

Managing Pharmacotherapy in People Living With HIV and Concomitant Malignancy.

Olin JL(1), Klibanov O(1), Chan A(2)(3), Spooner LM(4).

Author information:
(1)1 Wingate University School of Pharmacy, Wingate, NC, USA.
(2)2 National University of Singapore, Singapore.
(3)3 National Cancer Center Singapore, Singapore.
(4)4 Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences University, School of 
Pharmacy, Worcester, MA, USA.

Objective: To describe data with selected malignancies in people living with HIV 
(PLWH) and HIV in individuals affected by both conditions and to summarize 
drug-drug interactions (DDIs) with clinical recommendations for point-of-care 
review of combination therapies. Data Sources: Literature searches were 
performed (2005 to December 2018) in MEDLINE and EMBASE to identify studies of 
malignancies in PLWH in the modern era. Study Selection and Data Extraction: 
Article bibliographies and drug interaction databases were reviewed. Search 
terms included HIV, antiretroviral therapy, antineoplastic agents, malignancies, 
and drug interactions. Data Synthesis: In the pre-antiretroviral therapy (ART) 
era, malignancies in PLWH were AIDS-defining illnesses, and life expectancy was 
shorter. Nowadays, PLWH are living longer and developing malignancies, including 
lung, anal, and prostate cancers. Concurrently, the oncology landscape has 
evolved, with novel oral targeted agents and immunotherapies becoming routine 
elements of care. The increased need for and complexity with antineoplastics in 
PLWH has led to recommendations for multidisciplinary care of this unique 
population. Evaluation of DDIs requires review of metabolic pathways, absorption 
mechanisms, and various drug transporters associated with antineoplastics and 
ART. Relevance to Patient Care and Clinical Practice: This review summarizes 
available data of non-AIDS-defining malignancies, principles of HIV care in the 
patient with malignancy, and guidance for assessing DDIs between antineoplastics 
and ART. Summary DDI tables provide point-of-care recommendations. Conclusions: 
The availability of ART has transformed AIDS into a chronic medical condition, 
and PLWH are experiencing age-related malignancies. Pharmacists play an 
important role in the management of this patient population.

DOI: 10.1177/1060028019833038
PMID: 30770025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Vaccine. 2019 Mar 7;37(11):1467-1475. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2019.01.070.
Epub  2019 Feb 13.

Economic evaluation of a publicly funded hepatitis A travel vaccination program 
in Ontario, Canada.

Ramsay LC(1), Anyiwe K(2), Li M(3), Macdonald L(4), Coyte PC(5), Sander B(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Toronto, 155 College Street, Toronto, 
Ontario M5T 1P8, Canada; Toronto Health Economics and Technology Assessment 
(THETA) Collaborative, University Health Network, 200 Elizabeth Street, Toronto, 
Ontario M5G 2C4, Canada. Electronic address: lauren.ramsay@theta.utoronto.ca.
(2)School of Public Health, University of Toronto, 155 College Street, Toronto, 
Ontario M5T 1P8, Canada.
(3)East China Normal University, Zhongshan N Rd, Shanghai 3663, China.
(4)Toronto Health Economics and Technology Assessment (THETA) Collaborative, 
University Health Network, 200 Elizabeth Street, Toronto, Ontario M5G 2C4, 
Canada; Public Health Ontario, 480 University Avenue, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1V2, 
Canada.
(5)School of Public Health, University of Toronto, 155 College Street, Toronto, 
Ontario M5T 1P8, Canada; Canadian Centre for Health Economics, 155 College 
Street, Toronto, Ontario M5T 1P8, Canada.
(6)School of Public Health, University of Toronto, 155 College Street, Toronto, 
Ontario M5T 1P8, Canada; Toronto Health Economics and Technology Assessment 
(THETA) Collaborative, University Health Network, 200 Elizabeth Street, Toronto, 
Ontario M5G 2C4, Canada; Public Health Ontario, 480 University Avenue, Toronto, 
Ontario M5G 1V2, Canada; Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, 2075 
Bayview Avenue, Toronto, Ontario M4N 3M5, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Hepatitis A virus (HAV) causes acute liver infection and is spread 
through the fecal-oral route. Travel to countries in HAV-endemic regions (e.g., 
Asia and Latin America) is a well-described risk factor for infection. 
Currently, Ontario publicly funds hepatitis A vaccination for some populations 
at high risk of HAV infection but not for all travellers to endemic countries. 
The objective of this study was to determine the cost-effectiveness of expanding 
publicly funded HAV vaccination to people planning travel to HAV-endemic 
regions, from the Ontario healthcare payer perspective.
METHODS: We conducted a cost-utility analysis comparing an expanded high-risk 
publicly-funded hepatitis A vaccination program including funded vaccine for 
travellers to endemic regions to the current high risk program in Ontario. A 
Markov state transition model was developed, including six possible health 
states. Model parameters were informed through targeted literature searches and 
included hepatitis A disease probabilities, utilities associated with health 
states, health system expenditures, and vaccine costs. Future costs and health 
outcomes were discounted at 1.5%. Primary outcomes included cost, incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) and quality adjusted life years (QALYs) over a 
lifetime time horizon. We conducted one-way, two-way, and probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: The expanded high risk HAV vaccine program provided few incremental 
health gains in the travel population (mean 0.000037 QALYs/person), at an 
incremental cost of $124.31. The ICER of the expanded program compared to status 
quo is $3,391,504/QALY gained. The conclusion of the model was robust to changes 
in key parameters across reasonable ranges.
CONCLUSIONS: The expanded vaccination program substantially exceeds commonly 
accepted cost-effectiveness thresholds. Further research concerning possible 
cost-effective implementation of high-risk travel hepatitis A vaccination should 
focus on a more integrated understanding of the risk of acquiring hepatitis A 
during travel to endemic regions (e.g., purpose, length of stay).

Crown Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2019.01.070
PMID: 30770225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2021 Jun 18;60(6):2588-2601. doi: 
10.1093/rheumatology/key370.

Health-related quality of life and costs in Sjögren's syndrome.

Miyamoto ST(1), Valim V(2), Fisher BA(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Integrated Education in Health, Universidade Federal do 
Espírito Santo, Vitória, Brazil.
(2)Department of Medical Clinic, Universidade Federal do Espírito Santo, 
Vitória, Brazil.
(3)National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Birmingham Biomedical Research 
Centre, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.
(4)Rheumatology Research Group, Institute of Inflammation and Ageing, University 
of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.
(5)Rheumatology Department, University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation 
Trust, Birmingham, UK.

Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) has an increasing role in medical 
decision-making. This review of the literature aims to provide an overview on 
HRQoL, costs, and work disability in SS, a disease characterized by focal 
lymphocytic infiltration of exocrine glands with no therapeutics of proven 
immunomodulatory potential. HRQoL is markedly reduced in SS in multiple studies 
across many countries when compared with HRQoL in healthy controls. The 
reduction in HRQoL is similar to that observed in other chronic diseases such as 
RA, SLE, FM and, interestingly, non-SS sicca syndrome. Impaired HRQoL in SS has 
been found to be associated with fatigue, pain/articular involvement, ocular and 
oral involvement, pruritus, sexual dysfunction, impaired sleep, pulmonary 
manifestations, psychological dysfunction and impaired physical function. Until 
now, no therapeutic has been shown to improve HRQoL in an adequately powered 
double-blind, placebo-controlled randomized controlled trial. Although primary 
SS does not, in general, impair life expectancy and is often inappropriately 
considered a benign 'nuisanvce' disease for those patients without systemic 
manifestations, the associated costs and work disability are striking. This, 
together with the significant reduction in HRQoL, strongly argues for the 
development of new therapeutic approaches to manage this neglected disease.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Society for Rheumatology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/key370
PMID: 30770918


932. Pulmonology. 2019 Jan-Feb;25(1):60-61. doi: 10.1016/j.pulmoe.2019.02.001.
Epub  2019 Feb 13.

Cystic fibrosis - How we reach adult life.

Serras I(1), Oliveira JA(2), Pereira L(3), Barreto C(3).

Author information:
(1)Serviço de Pediatria, Centro Hospitalar Universitário do Algarve, Unidade de 
Portimão, Estrada do Poço Seco, 8500-338 Portimão, Portugal. Electronic address: 
inesserrasped@gmail.com.
(2)Departamento de Pediatria, Hospital de Santa Maria (CHLN), Centro Académico 
de Medicina de Lisboa, Av. Prof. Egas Moniz, 1649-035 Lisboa, Portugal.
(3)Departamento de Pediatria, Hospital de Santa Maria (CHLN), Centro Académico 
de Medicina de Lisboa, Av. Prof. Egas Moniz, 1649-035 Lisboa, Portugal; Centro 
Especializado de Fibrose Quística, Hospital de Santa Maria (CHLN), Centro 
Académico de Medicina de Lisboa, Av. Prof. Egas Moniz, 1649-035 Lisboa, 
Portugal.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pulmoe.2019.02.001
PMID: 30772263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. J Affect Disord. 2019 Apr 15;249:208-215. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.02.036.
Epub  2019 Feb 11.

Risk assessment scales to predict risk of hospital treated repeat self-harm: A 
cost-effectiveness modelling analysis.

Quinlivan L(1), Steeg S(2), Elvidge J(3), Nowland R(4), Davies L(3), Hawton 
K(5), Gunnell D(6), Kapur N(7).

Author information:
(1)NIHR Greater Manchester Patient Safety Translational Research Centre, United 
Kingdom; Centre for Mental Health and Safety, University of Manchester, Jean 
McFarlane Building Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PL, United Kingdom. Electronic 
address: leah.quinlivan@manchester.ac.uk.
(2)Centre for Mental Health and Safety, University of Manchester, Jean McFarlane 
Building Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PL, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
sarah.steeg@manchester.ac.uk.
(3)Division of Population Health, Health Services Research and Primary Care, 
University of Manchester, United Kingdom.
(4)Centre for Mental Health and Safety, University of Manchester, Jean McFarlane 
Building Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PL, United Kingdom.
(5)Centre for Suicide Research, University Department of Psychiatry, Warneford 
Hospital, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(6)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, United 
Kingdom; National Institute for Health Research Bristol Biomedical Research 
Centre, University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust and University of 
Bristol, United Kingdom.
(7)NIHR Greater Manchester Patient Safety Translational Research Centre, United 
Kingdom; Centre for Mental Health and Safety, University of Manchester, Jean 
McFarlane Building Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PL, United Kingdom; Greater 
Manchester Mental Health NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Risk scales are used widely for assessing individuals presenting to 
Emergency Departments (EDs) following self-harm. There is growing evidence that 
risk scales have limited clinical utility in identifying episodes at highest 
risk of repeat self-harm. However, their cost-effectiveness in terms of 
treatment allocation and subsequent repeat self-harm is unknown. We aimed to 
examine the cost-effectiveness of five risk scales (SAD PERSONS Scale, Modified 
SAD PERSONS Scale, ReACT Self-Harm Rule, Manchester Self-Harm Rule, Barratt 
Impulsivity Scale) and single item clinician and patient ratings of risk.
METHOD: Quality-Adjusted Life Years were estimated for each episode. The five 
risk scales and the patient rating were compared to the clinician rating. 
Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were estimated for each scale, 
using a range of ICER thresholds. Sensitivity analysis explored different model 
assumptions.
RESULTS: The formal scales were less cost-effective than the clinician and 
patient ratings across a range of ICER thresholds (£0-£30,000). The five scales 
were also less cost-effective than the clinician rating in most alternative 
scenario analyses. However, the clinician rating would be likely to result in 
unnecessary treatment costs for over half of patients identified as high risk.
LIMITATIONS: Our primary model depended on the assumption that high-intensity 
care reduced patients' risk of further self-harm.
CONCLUSION: The use of formal assessment tools for managing self-harm 
presentations to EDs did not appear to be cost-effective. While the judgement of 
a mental health clinician was found to be slightly more cost-effective, it still 
resulted in incorrect allocation of costs and missed treatment opportunities.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.02.036
PMID: 30772749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. BMJ Open. 2019 Feb 15;9(2):e024854. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2018-024854.

Comparison of the EQ-5D 3L and the SF-6D (SF-36) contemporaneous utility scores 
in patients with chronic kidney disease in Sri Lanka: a cross-sectional survey.

Kularatna S(1), Senanayake S(1), Gunawardena N(2), Graves N(1).

Author information:
(1)Australian Centre for Health Services Innovation, Queensland University of 
Technology, Kelvin Grove, Queensland, Australia.
(2)World Health Organization, Colombo, Sri Lanka.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to compare utility weights of 
EuroQoL-five-dimension-3 levels (EQ-5D-3L) and Short-Form six-dimension (SF-6D) 
in a representative cohort of patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). A 
cost-utility analysis (CUA) is designed to report the change to costs required 
to achieve an estimated change to quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). The 
quality component of a QALY is measured by utility. Utility represents the 
preference of general population for a given health state. Classification 
systems of the multi-attribute utility instruments (MAUIs) are used to define 
these health states. Utility weights developed from different classification 
systems can vary and may affect the conclusions from CUAs.
DESIGN: A community-based cross-sectional study.
SETTING: Anuradhapura, a rural district in Sri Lanka.
PARTICIPANTS: A representative sample of 1096 patients with CKD, selected using 
the population-based CKD register, completed the EQ-5D-3L and SF-36. SF-6D was 
constructed from the SF-36 according to the published algorithm. The study 
assessed discrimination, correlation and differences across the two instruments.
RESULTS: Study participants were predominantly male (62.6%). Mean EQ-5D-3L 
utility score was 0.540 (SD 0.35) compared with 0.534 (SD 0.09) for the SF-6D 
(p=0.588). The correlation (r) between the scores was 0.40 (p<0.001). Utility 
scores were significantly different in both males and females between the two 
tools, but there was no difference in age and educational categories. Both MAUI 
scores were significantly lower (p<0.001) among those who were in more advanced 
stages of the disease and the corresponding utility scores of the two 
instruments in different CKD stages were also significantly different (p<0.05). 
The largest effect size was seen among the patients on dialysis.
CONCLUSIONS: The correlation between the scores was moderate. SF-6D had the 
lowest floor and ceiling effect and was better at detecting different stages of 
the disease. Thus, based on the evidence presented in this study, SF-6D appears 
to be more appropriate to be used among patients with CKD.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2019. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2018-024854
PMCID: PMC6398797
PMID: 30772857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


935. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2019 Jun;157(6):2228-2236. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2018.12.013. Epub 2018 Dec 19.

Twenty-year outcomes of coronary artery bypass grafting utilizing 3 in situ 
arterial grafts.

Tavilla G(1), Bruggemans EF(2), Putter H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands. Electronic address: G.Tavilla@lumc.nl.
(2)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Biomedical Data Sciences, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2019 Jun;157(6):2237-2239.
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2019 Jun;157(6):2240-2241.

OBJECTIVE: The added value of total arterial revascularization in coronary 
artery bypass grafting becomes particularly apparent when evaluating long-term 
results. We previously reported on our 10-year outcomes of total arterial 
revascularization using bilateral internal thoracic and gastroepiploic arteries 
as in situ grafts in patients with 3-vessel disease. This study aimed to 
increase the follow-up period to 20 years.
METHODS: We updated clinical outcomes of 201 patients operated on between 1992 
and 2002. At that time, the technique was primarily performed in patients with a 
longer life expectancy. Primary end points were overall survival and freedom 
from the composite of major adverse cardiac events. Secondary end points were 
the separate cardiac events.
RESULTS: Extended follow-up included all patients. The median follow-up time was 
19.2 years (interquartile range, 16.2-20.0). The respective 15- and 20-year 
Kaplan-Meier estimated survival probabilities were 73.9% (95% confidence 
interval [CI], 67.2%-79.5%) and 63.5% (95% CI, 55.7%-70.4%) for overall survival 
and 57.9% (95% CI, 50.7%-64.5%) and 47.9% (95% CI, 40.1%-55.3%) for freedom from 
major adverse cardiac events. The respective estimated cumulative incidences at 
15 and 20 years were 7.0% (95% CI, 3.5%-10.6%) and 7.8% (95% CI, 4.0%-11.6%) for 
myocardial infarction, 8.6% (95% CI, 4.7%-12.5%) and 9.3% (95% CI, 5.2%-13.3%) 
for percutaneous reintervention, 7.0% (95% CI, 3.5%-10.5%) and 7.0% (95% CI, 
3.5%-10.5%) for reoperation, 8.6% (95% CI, 4.7%-12.6%) and 12.9% (95% CI, 
7.6%-18.2%) for cardiac death, and 10.8% (95% CI, 6.5%-15.2%) and 15.2% (95% CI, 
9.8%-20.6%) for death from other causes.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of in situ bilateral internal thoracic and gastroepiploic 
arteries provides outstanding 15- and 20-year survival and cardiac event-free 
survival probabilities. Further studies are needed in older patients with more 
severe comorbidities. Nevertheless, the results from this and scarce other 
studies on 15- to 20-year outcomes of total arterial revascularization suggest 
that cardiac surgeons should embrace the application of total arterial grafting 
to further reduce the risks of long-term cardiac events, especially during the 
second decade after surgery.

Copyright © 2018 The American Association for Thoracic Surgery. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2018.12.013
PMID: 30773385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Genet Med. 2019 Sep;21(9):1958-1968. doi: 10.1038/s41436-019-0457-6. Epub
2019  Feb 18.

Population genomic screening of all young adults in a health-care system: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Zhang L(1)(2), Bao Y(2)(3), Riaz M(2), Tiller J(2), Liew D(2), Zhuang X(3), Amor 
DJ(4), Huq A(5), Petelin L(6), Nelson M(7), James PA(5), Winship I(5), McNeil 
JJ(2), Lacaze P(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Xi'an 
Jiaotong University Health Science Center, Xi'an, Shaanxi, PR China.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, School of Public Health 
and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(3)School of Public Health, Nantong University, Nantong, Jiangsu, China.
(4)Victorian Clinical Genetics Services; Murdoch Children's Research Institute; 
Department of Paediatrics, University of Melbourne, Royal Children's Hospital, 
Parkville, VIC, Australia.
(5)Department of Genomic Medicine, Royal Melbourne Hospital; Department of 
Medicine, Royal Melbourne Hospital, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.
(6)Familial Cancer Centre, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.
(7)Discipline of General Practice, University of Tasmania, Hobart, TAS, 
Australia.
(8)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, School of Public Health 
and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia. 
paul.lacaze@monash.edu.

Erratum in
    Genet Med. 2019 Apr 4;:

Comment in
    Genet Med. 2019 Dec;21(12):2840-2841.
    Genet Med. 2019 Dec;21(12):2842-2843.

PURPOSE: To consider the impact and cost-effectiveness of offering preventive 
population genomic screening to all young adults in a single-payer health-care 
system.
METHODS: We modeled screening of 2,688,192 individuals, all adults aged 18-25 
years in Australia, for pathogenic variants in BRCA1/BRCA2/MLH1/MSH2 genes, and 
carrier screening for cystic fibrosis (CF), spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), and 
fragile X syndrome (FXS), at 71% testing uptake using per-test costs ranging 
from AUD$200 to $1200 (~USD$140 to $850). Investment costs included genetic 
counseling, surveillance, and interventions (reimbursed only) for at-risk 
individuals/couples. Cost-effectiveness was defined below AUD$50,000/DALY 
(disability-adjusted life year) prevented, using an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), compared with current targeted testing. 
Outcomes were cancer incidence/mortality, disease cases, and treatment costs 
