Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014 Oct 07;(10):CD009261.

BACKGROUND: Indications for the use of negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT) 
are broad and include prophylaxis for surgical site infections (SSIs). While 
existing evidence for the effectiveness of NPWT remains uncertain, new trials 
necessitated an updated review of the evidence for the effects of NPWT on 
postoperative wounds healing by primary closure.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of negative pressure wound therapy for 
preventing surgical site infection in wounds healing through primary closure.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Wounds Specialised Register, CENTRAL, 
Ovid MEDLINE (including In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations), Ovid Embase, 
and EBSCO CINAHL Plus in February 2018. We also searched clinical trials 
registries for ongoing and unpublished studies, and checked reference lists of 
relevant included studies as well as reviews, meta-analyses, and health 
technology reports to identify additional studies. There were no restrictions on 
language, publication date, or setting.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included trials if they allocated participants to 
treatment randomly and compared NPWT with any other type of wound dressing, or 
compared one type of NPWT with another type of NPWT.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Four review authors independently assessed trials 
using predetermined inclusion criteria. We carried out data extraction, 'Risk of 
bias' assessment using the Cochrane 'Risk of bias' tool, and quality assessment 
according to GRADE methodology.
MAIN RESULTS: In this second update we added 25 intervention trials, resulting 
in a total of 30 intervention trials (2957 participants), and two economic 
studies nested in trials. Surgeries included abdominal and colorectal (n = 5); 
caesarean section (n = 5); knee or hip arthroplasties (n = 5); groin surgery (n 
= 5); fractures (n = 5); laparotomy (n = 1); vascular surgery (n = 1); 
sternotomy (n = 1); breast reduction mammoplasty (n = 1); and mixed (n = 1). In 
three key domains four studies were at low risk of bias; six studies were at 
high risk of bias; and 20 studies were at unclear risk of bias. We judged the 
evidence to be of low or very low certainty for all outcomes, downgrading the 
level of the evidence on the basis of risk of bias and imprecision.Primary 
outcomesThree studies reported mortality (416 participants; follow-up 30 to 90 
days or unspecified). It is uncertain whether NPWT has an impact on risk of 
death compared with standard dressings (risk ratio (RR) 0.63, 95% confidence 
interval (CI) 0.25 to 1.56; very low-certainty evidence, downgraded once for 
serious risk of bias and twice for very serious imprecision).Twenty-five studies 
reported on SSI. The evidence from 23 studies (2533 participants; 2547 wounds; 
follow-up 30 days to 12 months or unspecified) showed that NPWT may reduce the 
rate of SSIs (RR 0.67, 95% CI 0.53 to 0.85; low-certainty evidence, downgraded 
twice for very serious risk of bias).Fourteen studies reported dehiscence. We 
combined results from 12 studies (1507 wounds; 1475 participants; follow-up 30 
days to an average of 113 days or unspecified) that compared NPWT with standard 
dressings. It is uncertain whether NPWT reduces the risk of wound dehiscence 
compared with standard dressings (RR 0.80, 95% CI 0.55 to 1.18; very 
low-certainty evidence, downgraded twice for very serious risk of bias and once 
for serious imprecision).Secondary outcomesWe are uncertain whether NPWT 
increases or decreases reoperation rates when compared with a standard dressing 
(RR 1.09, 95% CI 0.73 to 1.63; 6 trials; 1021 participants; very low-certainty 
evidence, downgraded for very serious risk of bias and serious imprecision) or 
if there is any clinical benefit associated with NPWT for reducing wound-related 
readmission to hospital within 30 days (RR 0.86, 95% CI 0.47 to 1.57; 7 studies; 
1271 participants; very low-certainty evidence, downgraded for very serious risk 
of bias and serious imprecision). It is also uncertain whether NPWT reduces 
incidence of seroma compared with standard dressings (RR 0.67, 95% CI 0.45 to 
1.00; 6 studies; 568 participants; very low-certainty evidence, downgraded twice 
for very serious risk of bias and once for serious imprecision). It is uncertain 
if NPWT reduces or increases the risk of haematoma when compared with a standard 
dressing (RR 1.05, 95% CI 0.32 to 3.42; 6 trials; 831 participants; very 
low-certainty evidence, downgraded twice for very serious risk of bias and twice 
for very serious imprecision. It is uncertain if there is a higher risk of 
developing blisters when NPWT is compared with a standard dressing (RR 6.64, 95% 
CI 3.16 to 13.95; 6 studies; 597 participants; very low-certainty evidence, 
downgraded twice for very serious risk of bias and twice for very serious 
imprecision).Quality of life was not reported separately by group but was used 
in two economic evaluations to calculate quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). 
There was no clear difference in incremental QALYs for NPWT relative to standard 
dressing when results from the two trials were combined (mean difference 0.00, 
95% CI -0.00 to 0.00; moderate-certainty evidence).One trial concluded that NPWT 
may be more cost-effective than standard care, estimating an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) value of GBP 20.65 per QALY gained. A second 
cost-effectiveness study estimated that when compared with standard dressings 
NPWT was cost saving and improved QALYs. We rated the overall quality of the 
reports as very good; we did not grade the evidence beyond this as it was based 
on modelling assumptions.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Despite the addition of 25 trials, results are consistent 
with our earlier review, with the evidence judged to be of low or very low 
certainty for all outcomes. Consequently, uncertainty remains about whether NPWT 
compared with a standard dressing reduces or increases the incidence of 
important outcomes such as mortality, dehiscence, seroma, or if it increases 
costs. Given the cost and widespread use of NPWT for SSI prophylaxis, there is 
an urgent need for larger, well-designed and well-conducted trials to evaluate 
the effects of newer NPWT products designed for use on clean, closed surgical 
incisions. Such trials should initially focus on wounds that may be difficult to 
heal, such as sternal wounds or incisions on obese patients.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009261.pub4
PMCID: PMC6434581
PMID: 30912582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Joan Webster: none known. Zhenmi Liu: my 
employment at the University of Manchester was supported by a grant from the 
National Institute for Health Research (NIHR Systematic Review Fellowships). 
Gill Norman: my employment at the University of Manchester was funded by the 
National Institute for Health Research and focused on high‐priority Cochrane 
Reviews in the prevention and treatment of wounds. Jo Dumville: I received 
research funding from the NIHR for the production of systematic reviews focusing 
on high‐priority Cochrane reviews in the prevention and treatment of wounds. 
Laura Chiverton: my work on this review was supported by the NIHR Manchester 
Biomedical Research Centre. Paul Scuffham is the Director of a unit contracted 
to the Australian Department of Health and Ageing to undertake external 
evaluations of industry submissions to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory 
Committee. Monica Stankiewicz: none known. Wendy Chaboyer: none known.


405. Bioconjug Chem. 2019 Apr 17;30(4):1232-1243. doi: 
10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.9b00170. Epub 2019 Apr 3.

Improved Inhibition of Tumor Growth by Diabody-Drug Conjugates via Half-Life 
Extension.

Li Q, Barrett A, Vijayakrishnan B(1), Tiberghien A(1), Beard R(1), Rickert KW, 
Allen KL, Christie RJ, Marelli M, Harper J, Howard P(1), Wu H, Dall'Acqua WF, 
Tsui P, Gao C, Borrok MJ.

Author information:
(1)Spirogen , 42 New Road , E1 2AX , London , United Kingdom.

Despite some clinical success with antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) in patients 
with solid tumors and hematological malignancies, improvements in ADC design are 
still desirable due to the narrow therapeutic window of these compounds. 
Tumor-targeting antibody fragments have distinct advantages over monoclonal 
antibodies, including more rapid tumor accumulation and enhanced penetration, 
but are subject to rapid clearance. Half-life extension technologies such as 
PEGylation and albumin-binding domains (ABDs) have been widely used to improve 
the pharmacokinetics of many different types of biologics. PEGylation improves 
pharmacokinetics by increasing hydrodynamic size to reduce renal clearance, 
whereas ABDs extend half-life via FcRn-mediated recycling. In this study, we 
used an anti-oncofetal antigen 5T4 diabody conjugated with a highly potent 
cytotoxic pyrrolobenzodiazepine (PBD) warhead to assess and compare the effects 
of PEGylation and albumin binding on the in vivo efficacy of antibody fragment 
drug conjugates. Conjugation of 2× PEG20K to a diabody improved half-life from 
40 min to 33 h, and an ABD-diabody fusion protein exhibited a half-life of 45 h 
in mice. In a xenograft model of breast cancer MDA-MB-436, the ABD-diabody-PBD 
showed greater tumor growth suppression and better tolerability than either 
PEG-diabody-PBD or diabody-PBD. These results suggest that the mechanism of 
half-life extension is an important consideration for designing cytotoxic 
antitumor agents.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.9b00170
PMID: 30912649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Expert Opin Drug Discov. 2019 Jul;14(7):683-699. doi: 
10.1080/17460441.2019.1599356. Epub 2019 Apr 4.

GABA(A) receptor-targeted drug development -New perspectives in perioperative 
anesthesia.

Antkowiak B(1)(2), Rammes G(3).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Anesthesiology and Intensive Care, Experimental 
Anesthesiology Section , Eberhard-Karls-University , Tübingen , Germany.
(2)b Department of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care, Experimental 
Anaesthesiology Section , Werner Reichardt Center for Integrative Neuroscience , 
Tübingen , Germany.
(3)c University Hospital rechts der Isar , Department of Anesthesiology , 
München , Germany.

Introduction: Perioperative anesthesia delivers pre-, intra-, and postoperative 
care to meet the needs of patients undergoing diagnostic and surgical 
procedures. Major challenges are patients at the extremes of age and individuals 
with a pre-existing disease burden. Frequent problems are the development of 
chronic pain and cognitive dysfunction upon surgery. Current perioperative 
pharmacotherapy utilizes a number of drugs acting at GABAA receptors. Area 
covered: This review evaluates novel formulations and newly designed GABAergic 
drugs, offering future improvements in perioperative anesthesia, especially for 
reducing mortality and avoiding cognitive dysfunction and chronic pain as an 
outcome of surgery. Expert opinion: There are multiple reasons for mounting 
efforts in the development of novel GABAergic medications. First, requirements 
in perioperative anesthesia care have substantially changed during the last two 
decades. In this respect, the dramatic increase in life expectancy is the most 
important factor. Moreover, research has considerably expanded our knowledge of 
how drugs in current clinical use act on the molecular level. Almost all ongoing 
developmental programs choose chemical structures of well-tried agents as a 
starting point for exploring the properties of structural analogs. This strategy 
aims to maintain the clinically desired actions of mother compounds while 
attempting to extinguish adverse side effects.

DOI: 10.1080/17460441.2019.1599356
PMID: 30912680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. J Med Internet Res. 2019 Mar 26;21(3):e12490. doi: 10.2196/12490.

The Rise of the Empowered Physician in the Digital Health Era: Viewpoint.

Mesko B(#)(1)(2), Győrffy Z(#)(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The Medical Futurist Institute, Budapest, Hungary.
(2)Department of Behavioral Sciences, Semmelweis University, Budapest, Hungary.
(#)Contributed equally

Being a 21st-century health care provider is extremely demanding. The growing 
number of chronic diseases, lack of medical workforce, increasing amounts of 
administrative tasks, the cost of medical treatment, and rising life expectancy 
result in an immense challenge for medical professionals. This transformation 
has been triggered by the growing presence of digital health. Digital health 
does not only refer to technological transformation; it also fundamentally 
reshapes the physician-patient relationship and treatment circumstances. We 
argue that patient empowerment, the spread of digital health, the 
biopsychosocial-digital approach, and the disappearance of the ivory tower of 
medicine lead to a new role for physicians. Digital health allows the job of 
being a medical professional to become more rewarding and creative. The 
characteristics of a physician-as-idol could shift from self-confident to 
curious, from rule follower to creative, and from lone hero to team worker. 
Empowered physicians (e-physicians) can be described as "electronic," where they 
use digital technologies in their practice with ease; "enabled," where they are 
enabled by regulations and guidelines; and "empowered," where they are empowered 
by technologies that support their job and their empowered patients 
(e-patients). They can be described as "experts" in the use of technologies in 
their practice or in knowing the best, most reliable, and trustworthy digital 
health sources and technologies. They can also be described as "engaged," when 
understanding the feelings and points of view of their patients, giving relevant 
feedback, and involving them throughout the whole healing process. The skills 
and approaches that characterize this era of e-physicians, such as face-to-face 
communication skills, digital literacy, interdisciplinarity, knowing where to 
find information, translating large amounts of data into insights for patients, 
among others, should always have been at the core of practicing medicine. 
However, the economical, technological, and administrative burden of the 
profession has not made it possible for most physicians to enjoy the benefits of 
their training, individual capabilities, and creativity. By understanding how 
digital health technologies can support or augment their capabilities, 
physicians would have the chance to practice the art of medicine like never 
before.

©Bertalan Mesko, Zsuzsa Győrffy. Originally published in the Journal of Medical 
Internet Research (http://www.jmir.org), 26.03.2019.

DOI: 10.2196/12490
PMCID: PMC6454334
PMID: 30912758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


408. Int Health. 2019 Sep 2;11(5):403-416. doi: 10.1093/inthealth/ihz003.

How many life-years have new drugs saved? A three-way fixed-effects analysis of 
66 diseases in 27 countries, 2000-2013.

Lichtenberg FR(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Business, Columbia University, 504 Uris Hall, 3022 
Broadway, New York, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: We analyzed the role that the launch of new drugs has played in 
reducing the number of years of life lost (YLL) before three different ages (85, 
70 and 55 y) due to 66 diseases in 27 countries.
METHODS: We estimated two-way fixed-effects models of the rate of decline of the 
disease- and country-specific age-standardized YLL rate. The models control for 
the average decline in the YLL rate in each country and from each disease.
RESULTS: One additional drug launch 0-11 y before year t is estimated to have 
reduced the pre-age-85 y YLL rate (YLL85) in year t by 3.0%, and one additional 
drug launch ≥12 y before year t is estimated to have reduced YLL85 by 5.5%. (A 
drug's utilization peaks 8-10 y after it is launched.) Controlling for the 
number of drugs previously launched, YLL rates are unrelated to the number of 
drug classes previously launched.
CONCLUSIONS: The estimates imply that, if no new drugs had been launched after 
1981, YLL85 in 2013 would have been 2.16 times as high as it actually was. We 
estimated that pharmaceutical expenditure per life-year saved before age 85 y in 
2013 by post-1981 drugs was $2837. This amount is about 8% of per capita GDP, 
indicating that post-1981 drugs launched were very cost-effective overall. But 
the fact that an intervention is cost-effective does not necessarily mean that 
it is 'affordable.'

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Royal 
Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/inthealth/ihz003
PMID: 30912800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Hepatology. 2019 Sep;70(3):1066-1070. doi: 10.1002/hep.30627. Epub 2019 May
16.

Expanding and Underscoring the Hepato-Encephalopathic Phenotype of QIL1/MIC13.

Russell BE(1), Whaley KG(2), Bove KE(3), Labilloy A(1), Lombardo RC(1), Hopkin 
RJ(1), Leslie ND(1), Prada C(1), Assouline Z(4), Barcia G(4), Bouchereau J(5), 
Chomton M(6), Debray D(7), Dorboz I(8), Durand P(9), Gaignard P(10), Habes 
D(11), Jardel C(12), Labarthe F(13), Lévy J(14), Lombès A(15), Mehler-Jacob 
C(16), Melki J(17), Menvielle L(18), Munnich A(4), Mussini C(19), Pichard S(5), 
Rio M(4), Rötig A(4)(20), Sissaoui S(21), Slama A(22), Miethke AG(2), Schiff 
M(5)(23).

Author information:
(1)Division of Human Genetics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, 
Cincinnati, OH.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, 
Cincinnati, OH.
(3)Department of Pathology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, 
Cincinnati, OH.
(4)Reference Center for Mitochondrial Diseases, Genetics Department, Institut 
Imagine, Necker Hospital, APHP, Paris, France.
(5)Reference Center for Inherited Metabolic Diseases, Robert Debré Hospital, 
University Paris Diderot-Sorbonne Paris Cité, APHP, Paris, France.
(6)Department of Pediatric Intensive Care, Robert-Debré Hospital, APHP, Paris, 
France.
(7)Department of Pediatric Hepatology, Necker Hospital, APHP, Paris, France.
(8)Robert-Debré Hospital, Inserm U1141, Paris, France.
(9)Department of Pediatric Intensive Care, Bicêtre Hospital, APHP, Bicêtre, 
France.
(10)Department of Pharmacy, Bicêtre Hospital, APHP, Bicêtre, France.
(11)Department of Pediatric Hepatology, Bicêtre Hospital, APHP, Bicêtre, France.
(12)Department of Biochemistry, Pitié-Salpétriêre Hospital, APHP, Paris, France.
(13)Reference Center for Inborn Errors of Metabolism, Tours University Hospital, 
Tours, France.
(14)Cytogenetics Department, Robert-Debré Hospital, APHP, Paris, France.
(15)Institut Cochin, Inserm U1016, Paris, France.
(16)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Bicêtre Hospital, APHP, Bicêtre, France.
(17)Department of Genetics, Bicêtre Hospital, APHP, Bicêtre, France.
(18)Department of Neonatology, Robert-Debré Hospital, APHP, Paris, France.
(19)Department of Pathology, Bicêtre Hospital, APHP, Bicêtre, France.
(20)Institut Imagine, Inserm U1163, Paris, France.
(21)Department of Pediatrics, Poitiers University Hospital, Poitiers, France.
(22)Biochemistry Department, Bicêtre Hospital, APHP, Bicêtre, France.
(23)Inserm U1141, Paris, France.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.30627
PMID: 30912852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2019 Aug 27;57(9):1358-1363. doi: 10.1515/cclm-2018-0801.

Subcutaneous adipose tissue distribution and telomere length.

Mangge H(1), Renner W(1), Almer G(1), Gruber HJ(1), Zelzer S(1), Moeller R(2), 
Horejsi R(2), Herrmann M(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Institute of Medical and Chemical Laboratory Diagnostics, Medical 
University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(2)Otto Loewi Research Center (for Vascular Biology, Immunology and 
Inflammation), Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria.

Background Overweight and obese individuals have a reduced life expectancy due 
to cardiovascular disease (CVD), type 2 diabetes, stroke and cancer. Systemic 
inflammation and premature telomere shortening have been discussed as potential 
mechanisms linking these conditions. We investigated the relation of 
subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) distribution to leukocyte relative telomere 
length (RTL). Methods We measured RTL in 375 participants of the observational 
STYJOBS/EDECTA cohort (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT00482924) using a qPCR 
based method. SAT distribution was determined by lipometry yielding a percent 
body fat value and SAT thicknesses at 15 standardized locations across the 
entire body. A correlation analysis between RTL, age, sex, lipometry data and 
conventional body measures (body mass index [BMI], waist-, hip circumference, 
waist-to-hip ratio, waist-to-height ratio) was calculated. The strongest 
determinants of RTL were determined by a stepwise multiple regression analysis. 
Results RTL was not associated with age or sex. RTL was significantly negatively 
correlated with BMI, percent body fat, waist-, hip circumference and 
waist-to-height ratio. Furthermore, RTL correlated with SAT at the following 
locations: neck, triceps, biceps, upper back, front chest, lateral chest, upper 
abdomen, lower abdomen, lower back, hip, front thigh, lateral thigh, rear thigh 
and calf. Stepwise regression analysis revealed nuchal and hip SAT as the 
strongest predictors of RTL. No significant association was seen between RTL and 
waist-to-hip ratio. Conclusions RTL is negatively associated with parameters 
describing body fat composure. Nuchal and hip SAT thicknesses are the strongest 
predictors of RTL. Central obesity appears to correlate with premature genomic 
aging.

DOI: 10.1515/cclm-2018-0801
PMID: 30913032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Soc Sci Med. 2019 May;228:142-154. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2019.03.028.
Epub  2019 Mar 21.

Valuing the health states associated with breast cancer screening programmes: A 
systematic review of economic measures.

Bromley HL(1), Petrie D(2), Mann GB(3), Nickson C(4), Rea D(5), Roberts TE(6).

Author information:
(1)Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; Health Economics Unit, University of Birmingham, 
Birmingham, West Midlands, UK.
(2)Centre for Health Economics, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.
(3)Department of Surgery, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.
(4)Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; Cancer Research Division, Cancer Council NSW, 
Australia.
(5)Cancer Research UK Clinical Trials Unit, University Hospital of Birmingham, 
Birmingham, West Midlands, UK.
(6)Health Economics Unit, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, West Midlands, 
UK. Electronic address: T.E.ROBERTS@bham.ac.uk.

Policy decisions regarding breast cancer screening and treatment programmes may 
be misplaced unless the decision process includes the appropriate utilities and 
disutilities of mammography screening and its sequelae. The objectives of this 
study were to critically review how economic evaluations have valued the health 
states associated with breast cancer screening, and appraise the primary 
evidence informing health state utility values (cardinal measures of quality of 
life). A systematic review was conducted up to September 2018 of studies that 
elicited or used utilities relevant to mammography screening. The methods used 
to elicit utilities and the quality of the reported values were tabulated and 
analysed narratively. 40 economic evaluations of breast cancer screening 
programmes and 10 primary studies measuring utilities for health states 
associated with mammography were reviewed in full. The economic evaluations made 
different assumptions about the measures used, duration applied and the sequalae 
included in each health state. 22 evaluations referenced utilities based on 
assumptions or used measures that were not methodologically appropriate. There 
was significant heterogeneity in the utilities generated by the 10 primary 
studies, including the methods and population used to derive them. No study 
asked women to explicitly consider the risk of overdiagnosis when valuing the 
health states described. Utilities informing breast screening policy are 
restricted in their ability to reflect the full benefits and harms. Evaluating 
the true cost-effectiveness of breast cancer screening will remain problematic, 
unless the methodological challenges associated with valuing the disutilities of 
screening are adequately addressed.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2019.03.028
PMID: 30913528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. J Aging Health. 2020 Aug-Sep;32(7-8):543-553. doi: 10.1177/0898264319836514.
 Epub 2019 Mar 27.

The Burden of Disease in Mexican Older Adults: Premature Mortality Challenging a 
Limited-Resource Health System.

Parra-Rodríguez L(1), González-Meljem JM(1), Gómez-Dantés H(2), 
Gutiérrez-Robledo LM(1), López-Ortega M(1), García-Peña C(1), Medina-Campos 
RH(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Geriatrics, Mexico City, Mexico.
(2)National Institute of Public Health, Cuernavaca, Mexico.

Objectives: To assess the burden of disease and disability in older persons in 
Mexico from the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2016 study data. Methods: 
Analysis of the Mexican data from the GBD 2016 study is presented by state, sex, 
and stratified into four age groups: 60 to 69, 70 to 79, 80 to 89, and 90+ 
years. Results: The majority of disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) 
attributable to disorders in persons 60+ in Mexico were due to premature 
mortality (68%). Diabetes mellitus, ischemic heart disease, and chronic kidney 
disease were the main causes of DALYs. With progressing age, sense organ 
diseases, dementias, and falls climbed to the top causes of years lived with 
disability (YLDs) in both sexes. Discussion: Most of the burden of disease in 
older Mexicans is due to premature mortality, underlining the need to strengthen 
the health system to respond better to health care needs of older persons with 
non-communicable diseases. This analysis provides information for the 
development of national health policies.

DOI: 10.1177/0898264319836514
PMID: 30913945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Sci Rep. 2019 Mar 26;9(1):5223. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-41578-3.

Synergy between the alteration in the N-terminal region of butyrylcholinesterase 
K variant and apolipoprotein E4 in late-onset Alzheimer's disease.

Jasiecki J(1), Limon-Sztencel A(2), Żuk M(3)(4), Chmara M(3)(4), Cysewski D(5), 
Limon J(6), Wasąg B(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy with Subfaculty of Laboratory Medicine, Medical 
University of Gdańsk, Gdańsk, Poland. jjasiecki@gumed.edu.pl.
(2)Consultant Psychiatry, St. Adalbert Hospital, Copernicus Gdańsk, Gdańsk, 
Poland.
(3)Department of Biology and Medical Genetics, Medical University of Gdańsk, 
Gdańsk, Poland.
(4)Laboratory of Clinical Genetics, University Clinical Centre, Gdańsk, Poland.
(5)Mass Spectrometry Laboratory Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Polish 
Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland.
(6)Polish Academy of Sciences, Gdańsk Branch, Gdańsk, Poland.
(7)Department of Biology and Medical Genetics, Medical University of Gdańsk, 
Gdańsk, Poland. bwasag@gumed.edu.pl.
(8)Laboratory of Clinical Genetics, University Clinical Centre, Gdańsk, Poland. 
bwasag@gumed.edu.pl.

While the life expectancy of the population has increased, Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) has emerged as one of the greatest health problems of old age. AD is 
characterized by neuronal loss and cognitive decline. In the AD brain, there is 
a decrease in levels of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and an increase in the 
levels of the related enzyme butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), that accumulate in 
plaques and tangles. Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) is a major cholesterol carrier and 
plays an important role in maintaining lipid homeostasis. APOE-ε4 constitutes 
the most important known genetic risk factor for late-onset AD. It has been 
proposed that the BCHE-K allele (Ala539Thr) acts in synergy with the APOE-ε4 
allele to promote risk for AD. However, there is insufficient evidence to 
support a correlation. Most studies focused only on the coding regions of the 
genes. In this study, we analyzed sequence regions beyond the BCHE coding 
sequence. We found synergy between APOE-ε4 and SNPs localized in 5'UTR 
(rs1126680) and in intron 2 (rs55781031) of the BCHE-K allele (rs1803274) in 18% 
of patients with late-onset AD (n = 55). The results show that the coexistence 
of the APOE-ε4 allele and 3 SNPs in the BCHE gene is associated with a highly 
elevated risk of late-onset AD. SNP (rs1126680) in 5'UTR of the BCHE gene is 
located 32 nucleotides upstream of the 28 amino acid signal peptide. Mass 
spectrometry analysis of the BChE protein produced by SNP (rs1126680) showed 
that the mutation caused an in frame N-terminal extension of 41 amino acids of 
the BChE signal peptide. The resultant variant with a 69 amino acid signal 
peptide, designated N-BChE, may play a role in development of AD.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-41578-3
PMCID: PMC6435664
PMID: 30914707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


414. Front Immunol. 2019 Mar 12;10:463. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2019.00463.
eCollection  2019.

Altered Immunity and Microbial Dysbiosis in Aged Individuals With Long-Term 
Controlled HIV Infection.

Rhoades N(1), Mendoza N(1), Jankeel A(1), Sureshchandra S(1), Alvarez AD(1), 
Doratt B(1), Heidari O(2), Hagan R(3), Brown B(4), Scheibel S(3), Marbley T(3), 
Taylor J(5), Messaoudi I(1).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, University of California Irvine, Irvine, 
CA, United States.
(2)School of Nursing, John Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, United States.
(3)Stonewall Medical Center, Borrego Health, Cathedral City, CA, United States.
(4)School of Medicine, University of California, Riverside, Riverside, CA, 
United States.
(5)HIV+ Aging-Palm Springs, Palm Springs, CA, United States.

The introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) resulted in a 
significant increase in life expectancy for HIV patients. Indeed, in 2015, 45% 
of the HIV+ individuals in the United States were ≥55 years of age. Despite 
improvements in diagnosis and treatment of HIV infection, geriatric HIV+ 
patients suffer from higher incidence of comorbidities compared to age-matched 
HIV- individuals. Both chronic inflammation and dysbiosis of the gut microbiome 
are believed to be major contributors to this phenomenon, however carefully 
controlled studies investigating the impact of long-term (>10 years) controlled 
HIV (LTC-HIV) infection are lacking. To address this question, we profiled 
circulating immune cells, immune mediators, and the gut microbiome from elderly 
(≥55 years old) LTC-HIV+ and HIV- gay men living in the Palm Springs area. 
LTC-HIV+ individuals had lower frequency of circulating monocytes and CD4+ 
T-cells, and increased frequency CD8+ T-cells. Moreover, levels of systemic INFγ 
and several growth factors were increased while levels of IL-2 and several 
chemokines were reduced. Upon stimulation, immune cells from LTC-HIV+ 
individuals produced higher levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Last but not 
least, the gut microbiome of LTC-HIV+ individuals was enriched in bacterial taxa 
typically found in the oral cavity suggestive of loss of compartmentalization, 
while levels of beneficial butyrate producing taxa were reduced. Additionally, 
prevalence of Prevotella negatively correlated with CD4+ T-cells numbers in 
LTC-HIV+ individuals. These results indicate that despite long-term adherence 
and undetectable viral loads, LTC-HIV infection results in significant shifts in 
immune cell frequencies and gut microbial communities.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2019.00463
PMCID: PMC6423162
PMID: 30915086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Comput Math Methods Med. 2019 Feb 19;2019:2476565. doi:
10.1155/2019/2476565.  eCollection 2019.

Evaluating the Cost-Effective Use of Follow-Up Colonoscopy Based on Screening 
Findings and Age.

Joseph GN(1), Heidarnejad F(1), Sherer EA(1).

Author information:
(1)Louisiana Tech University, Ruston, LA, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Colorectal cancer (CRC), if not detected early, can be costly and 
detrimental to one's health. Colonoscopy can identify CRC early as well as 
prevent the disease. The benefit of screening colonoscopy has been established, 
but the optimal frequency of follow-up colonoscopy is unknown and may vary based 
on findings from colonoscopy screening and patient age.
METHODS: A partially observed Markov process (POMP) was used to simulate the 
effects of follow-up colonoscopy on the development of CRC. The POMP uses 
adenoma and CRC growth models to calculate the probability of a patient having 
colorectal adenomas and CRC. Then, based on mortality, quality of life, and the 
costs associated with diagnosis, treatment, and surveillance of colorectal 
cancer, the overall costs and increase in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
are calculated for follow-up colonoscopy scenarios.
RESULTS: At the $100,000/QALY gained threshold, only one follow-up colonoscopy 
is cost-effective only after screening at age 50 years. The optimal follow-up is 
8.5 years, which gives 84.0 QALYs gained/10,000 persons. No follow-up 
colonoscopy was cost-effective at the $50,000 and $75,000/QALY gained 
thresholds. The intervals were insensitive to the findings at screening 
colonoscopy.
CONCLUSION: Follow-up colonoscopy is cost-effective following screening at age 
50 years but not if screening occurs later. Following screening at age 50 years, 
the optimal follow-up interval is close to the currently recommended 10 years 
for an average risk screening but does not vary by colonoscopy result.

DOI: 10.1155/2019/2476565
PMCID: PMC6399561
PMID: 30915155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Zoological Lett. 2019 Mar 14;5:12. doi: 10.1186/s40851-019-0124-4.
eCollection  2019.

Branching pattern and morphogenesis of medusa tentacles in the jellyfish 
Cladonema pacificum (Hydrozoa, Cnidaria).

Fujiki A(1), Hou S(1), Nakamoto A(1), Kumano G(1).

Author information:
(1)Asamushi Research Center for Marine Biology, Graduate School of Life 
Sciences, Tohoku University, 9 Sakamoto, Asamushi, Aomori, 039-3501 Japan.

BACKGROUND: Branched structures are found in many natural settings, and the 
molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying their formation in animal 
development have extensively studied in recent years. Despite their importance 
and the accumulated knowledge from studies on several organs of Drosophila and 
mammals, much remains unknown about branching mechanisms in other animal 
species. We chose to study the jellyfish species Cladonema pacificum. Unlike 
many other jellyfish, this species has branched medusa tentacles, and its basal 
phylogenetic position in animal evolution makes it an ideal organism for 
studying and understanding branching morphogenesis more broadly. Branched 
tentacles are unique compared to other well-studied branched structures in that 
they have two functionally distinct identities: one with adhesive organs for 
attaching to a substratum, and another with nematocyst clusters for capturing 
prey.
RESULTS: We began our analyses on C. pacificum tentacles by observing their 
branching during growth. We found that tentacle branches form through repeated 
addition of new branches to the proximal region of the main tentacle while it is 
elongating. At the site of branch bud formation, we observed apical thickening 
of the epidermal epithelial layer, possibly caused by extension of the 
epithelial cells along the apico-basal axis. Interestingly, tentacle branch 
formation required receptor tyrosine kinase signaling, which is an essential 
factor for branching morphogenesis in Drosophila and mammals. We also found that 
new branches form adhesive organs first, and then are transformed into branches 
with nematocyst clusters as they develop.
CONCLUSIONS: These results highlight unique features in branch generation in C. 
pacificum medusa tentacles and illuminate conserved and fundamental mechanisms 
by which branched structures are created across a variety of animal species.

DOI: 10.1186/s40851-019-0124-4
PMCID: PMC6417081
PMID: 30915232

Conflict of interest statement: Not applicable.Not applicable.The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.Springer Nature remains neutral 
with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


417. MDM Policy Pract. 2019 Mar 20;4(1):2381468319837925. doi: 
10.1177/2381468319837925. eCollection 2019 Jan-Jun.

Using Nominal Group Technique to Identify Key Attributes of Oncology Treatments 
for a Discrete Choice Experiment.

Somers C(1), Chimonas S(2), McIntosh E(1), Kaltenboeck A(2), Briggs A(1), Bach 
P(2).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Health Technology Assessment, University of Glasgow, 
Glasgow, UK.
(2)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York.

Background. Responding to rising oncology therapy costs, multiple value 
frameworks are emerging. However, input from economists in their design and 
conceptualization has been limited, and no existing framework has been developed 
using preference weightings as legitimate indicators of value. This article 
outlines use of the nominal group technique to identify valued treatment 
attributes (such as treatment inconvenience) and contextual considerations (such 
as current life expectancy) to inform the design of a discrete choice experiment 
to develop a preference weighted value framework for future decision makers. 
Methods. Three focus groups were conducted in 2017 with cancer patients, 
oncology physicians, and nurses. Using the nominal group technique, participants 
identified and prioritized cancer therapy treatment and delivery attributes as 
well as contextual issues considered when choosing treatment options. Results. 
Focus groups with patients (n = 8), physicians (n = 6), and nurses (n = 10) 
identified 30 treatment attributes and contextual considerations. Therapy health 
gains was the first priority across all groups. Treatment burden/inconvenience 
to patients and their families and quality of evidence were prioritized 
treatment attributes alongside preferences for resource use and cost (to 
patients and society) attributes. The groups also demonstrated that contextual 
considerations when choosing treatment varied across the stakeholders. Patients 
prioritized existence of alternative treatments and oncologist/center reputation 
while nurses focused on administration harms, communication, and treatment 
innovation. The physicians did not prioritize any contextual issues in their top 
rankings. Conclusions. The study demonstrates that beyond health gains, there 
are treatment attributes and contextual considerations that are highly 
prioritized across stakeholder groups. These represent important candidates for 
inclusion in a discrete choice experiment seeking to provide weighted 
preferences for a value framework for oncology treatment that goes beyond health 
outcomes.

DOI: 10.1177/2381468319837925
PMCID: PMC6429659
PMID: 30915400

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared the following potential 
conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or 
publication of this article: The following authors are employed by the sponsor: 
Prof Briggs, Dr Susan Chimonas, Anna Kaltenboeck, and Dr Peter Bach.


418. Int Psychogeriatr. 2019 Dec;31(12):1781-1789. doi:
10.1017/S1041610219000152.  Epub 2019 Mar 27.

Survival and life-expectancy in a young-onset dementia cohort with six years of 
follow-up: the NeedYD-study.

Gerritsen AAJ(1)(2)(3), Bakker C(2)(3)(4), Verhey FRJ(5), Pijnenburg YAL(6), 
Millenaar JK(5), de Vugt ME(5), Koopmans RTCM(2)(3)(7).

Author information:
(1)De Wever, Centre for Elderly Care, Tilburg, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Primary and Community Care, Radboud University Medical Centre, 
Radboud Institute for Health Sciences, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
(3)Radboud University Medical Centre, Alzheimer Centre, Nijmegen, the 
Netherlands.
(4)Florence, Mariahoeve, Centre for Specialized Care in Young-onset Dementia, 
Den Haag, the Netherlands.
(5)School for Mental Health and Neuroscience, Alzheimer Centre Limburg, 
Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(6)Department of Neurology and Alzheimer Centre, Amsterdam University Medical 
Centres, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(7)Joachim en Anna, Centre for Specialized Geriatric Care, Nijmegen, the 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to investigate survival time and 
life-expectancy in people with young-onset dementia (YOD) and to examine the 
relationship with age, sex, dementia subtype and comorbidity.
DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Survival was examined in 198 participants in 
the Needs in Young-onset Dementia study, including participants with Alzheimer's 
dementia (AD), vascular dementia (VaD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD).
MEASURES: The primary outcomes were survival time after symptom onset and after 
date of diagnosis. Cox proportional hazards models were used to explore the 
relationship between survival and age, sex, dementia subtype and comorbidity. 
Additionally, the impact on remaining life expectancy was explored.
RESULTS: During the six-year follow-up, 77 of the participants died (38.9%), 78 
participants survived (39.4%) and 43 were lost to follow-up (21.7%). The mean 
survival time after symptom onset and diagnosis was 209 months (95% CI 185-233) 
and 120 months (95% CI 110-130) respectively. Participants with AD had a 
statistically significant shorter survival compared with VaD participants, both 
regarding survival after symptom onset (p = 0.047) as well as regarding survival 
after diagnosis (p = 0.049). Younger age at symptom onset or at diagnosis was 
associated with longer survival times. The remaining life expectancy, after 
diagnosis, was reduced with 51% for males and 59% for females compared to the 
life expectancy of the general population in the same age groups.
CONCLUSION/IMPLICATIONS: It is important to consider the dementia subtype when 
persons with YOD and their families are informed about the prognosis of 
survival. Our study suggests longer survival times compared to other studies on 
YOD, and survival is prolonged compared to studies on LOD. Younger age at 
symptom onset or at diagnosis was positively related to survival but diagnosis 
at younger ages, nevertheless, still diminishes life expectancy dramatically.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610219000152
PMID: 30915930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Nucleic Acids Res. 2019 May 21;47(9):4393-4405. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkz198.

New insights into the structures and interactions of bacterial Y-family DNA 
polymerases.

Timinskas K(1), Venclovas Č(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, Life Sciences Center, Vilnius University, 
Saulėtekio 7, Vilnius LT-10257, Lithuania.

Bacterial Y-family DNA polymerases are usually classified into DinB (Pol IV), 
UmuC (the catalytic subunit of Pol V) and ImuB, a catalytically dead essential 
component of the ImuA-ImuB-DnaE2 mutasome. However, the true diversity of 
Y-family polymerases is unknown. Furthermore, for most of them the structures 
are unavailable and interactions are poorly characterized. To gain a better 
understanding of bacterial Y-family DNA polymerases, we performed a detailed 
computational study. It revealed substantial diversity, far exceeding 
traditional classification. We found that a large number of subfamilies feature 
a C-terminal extension next to the common Y-family region. Unexpectedly, in most 
C-terminal extensions we identified a region homologous to the N-terminal 
oligomerization motif of RecA. This finding implies a universal mode of 
interaction between Y-family members and RecA (or ImuA), in the case of Pol V 
strongly supported by experimental data. In gram-positive bacteria, we 
identified a putative Pol V counterpart composed of a Y-family polymerase, a 
YolD homolog and RecA. We also found ImuA-ImuB-DnaE2 variants lacking ImuA, but 
retaining active or inactive Y-family polymerase, a standalone ImuB C-terminal 
domain and/or DnaE2. In summary, our analyses revealed that, despite 
considerable diversity, bacterial Y-family polymerases share previously 
unanticipated similarities in their structural domains/motifs and interactions.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic 
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkz198
PMCID: PMC6511836
PMID: 30916324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2019 Aug;60(4):468-475. doi: 
10.23736/S0021-9509.19.10946-9. Epub 2019 Mar 22.

Management of abdominal aortic aneurysm and concomitant malignant disease.

Peeters B(1), Moreels N(1), Vermassen F(1), van Herzeele I(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Vascular Surgery, Ghent University Hospital, 
Ghent, Belgium.
(2)Department of Thoracic and Vascular Surgery, Ghent University Hospital, 
Ghent, Belgium - isabelle.vanherzeele@ugent.be.

INTRODUCTION: Concomitant malignant disease and abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) 
represent a challenging issue in terms of treatment priority, timing and 
perspectives. This systematic review provides an overview of the available 
literature about AAA and concomitant malignant disease.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: We conducted a literature search of all the 
English-language medical literature in Medline (through PubMed), Embase, 
Clinical Trial databases and the Cochrane Library up to December 31st, 2018.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: The literature about AAA and concomitant malignant disease 
is mostly based on retrospective small case series. Two recently published 
meta-analyses focusing on the management of AAA and concomitant abdominal 
neoplasms came to the same conclusion "treat what is most threatening or 
symptomatic first." The threshold to treat asymptomatic AAA should not be 
altered in patients with AAA and concomitant cancer including cases under 
chemotherapy. An asymptomatic AAA of at least 55 mm anatomically suitable for 
EVAR, should only be treated first in patients with at least a life expectancy 
of two years followed by staged cancer surgery two weeks later.
CONCLUSIONS: Decisions about management of AAA and concomitant malignant disease 
should be based on clinical judgment applied individually in a multidisciplinary 
setting ("treat first what kills first"). The indication for treatment is not 
different than in patients with AAA without cancer. A staged approach is 
preferable and ideally the AAA should be excluded by endovascular means if 
anatomically suitable. An international registry should be initiated to gather 
more evidence about the management and outcomes of patients with AAA and 
concomitant carcinoma.

DOI: 10.23736/S0021-9509.19.10946-9
PMID: 30916530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2019 May;19(5):359-374. doi: 
10.1080/14737140.2019.1596804. Epub 2019 Apr 10.

Oncologic therapies associated with cardiac toxicities: how to minimize the 
risks.

Cardinale D(1), Stivala F(1), Cipolla CM(1).

Author information:
(1)a Cardioncology Unit, Cardiology Division , European Institute of Oncology , 
I.R.C.C.S., Milan , Italy.

Recent breakthroughs in cancer treatment has improved the prospects and life 
expectancy of cancer patients. Therefore, risk of cardiotoxicity induced by 
oncologic therapies has become an important determinant of patient's survival 
and quality of life, independently of the oncologic prognosis. Areas covered: 
This paper provides an overview of the proposed strategies to mitigate the risk 
of cardiotoxicity. Limitation of current approaches, the need for early 
detection and the treatment of cardiotoxicity are also discussed. Possible 
future research directions are also described. Expert opinion: The most 
effective approach to minimize cardiotoxicity is early identification and early 
onset of a prophylactic treatment. However, the current standard of cardiac 
monitor identifies cardiotoxicity only when a functional impairment has already 
occurred, precluding any chance of effective prevention. The use of troponins to 
identify subclinical cardiotoxicity, and early treatment with ACE-inhibitors to 
prevent cardiac dysfunction and cardiac events have recently emerged, and appear 
to be an effective tool against this complication.

DOI: 10.1080/14737140.2019.1596804
PMID: 30916598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Palliat Med. 2019 Jul;33(7):823-831. doi: 10.1177/0269216319839635. Epub
2019  Mar 27.

Appropriate frameworks for economic evaluation of end of life care: A 
qualitative investigation with stakeholders.

Kinghorn P(1), Coast J(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Health Economics Unit, Institute of Applied Health Research, University of 
Birmingham, Birmingham, Edgbaston, UK.
(2)2 Health Economics at Bristol, Population Health Sciences, Bristol Medical 
School, Bristol, UK.

BACKGROUND: The use of quality-adjusted life years rests on the assertion that 
the objective of the health care system is to improve health.
AIM: To elicit the views of expert stakeholders on the purpose and evaluation of 
supportive end of life care, and explore how different purposes of end of life 
care imply the need for different evaluative frameworks.
DESIGN: Semi-structured qualitative interviews, analysed through an economic 
lens using a constant comparative approach.
PARTICIPANTS: Twenty professionals working in or visiting the United Kingdom or 
Republic of Ireland, with clinical experience and/or working as academics in 
health-related disciplines.
RESULTS: Four purposes of end of life care were identified from and are 
critiqued with the aid of the qualitative data: to improve health, to enable 
patients to die in their preferred place, to enable the patient to experience a 
good death, and to enable the patient to experience a good death, and those who 
are close to the patient to have an experience which is as free as possible from 
fear, stress and distress.
CONCLUSION: Managing symptoms and reducing anxiety were considered to be core 
objectives of end of life care and fit with the wider health service objective 
of improving/maximising health. A single objective across the entire health 
system ensures consistency in the way that resource allocation is informed 
across that entire system. However, the purpose of care at the end of life is 
more complex, encompassing diverse and patient-centred objectives which we have 
interpreted as enabling the patient to experience a good death.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216319839635
PMID: 30916615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Clin Genet. 2020 Jan;97(1):179-197. doi: 10.1111/cge.13542. Epub 2019 Apr
22.

Current knowledge of medical complications in adults with achondroplasia: A 
scoping review.

Fredwall SO(1)(2), Maanum G(2)(3), Johansen H(1), Snekkevik H(4), Savarirayan 
R(5), Lidal IB(1).

Author information:
(1)Sunnaas Rehabilitation Hospital, TRS National Resource Centre for Rare 
Disorders, Nesoddtangen, Norway.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo, 
Oslo, Norway.
(3)Department of Research, Sunnaas Rehabilitation Hospital, Nesoddtangen, 
Norway.
(4)Department of Cognitive Rehabilitation, Sunnaas Rehabilitation Hospital, 
Nesoddtangen, Norway.
(5)Victorian Clinical Genetics Service, Murdoch Childrens Research Institute and 
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

This article provides an overview of the current knowledge on medical 
complications, health characteristics, and psychosocial issues in adults with 
achondroplasia. We have used a scoping review methodology particularly 
recommended for mapping and summarizing existing research evidence, and to 
identify knowledge gaps. The review process was conducted in accordance with the 
PRISMA-ScR guidelines (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and 
Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews). The selection of studies was based 
on criteria predefined in a review protocol. Twenty-nine publications were 
included; 2 reviews, and 27 primary studies. Key information such as reference 
details, study characteristics, topics of interest, main findings and the study 
author's conclusion are presented in text and tables. Over the past decades, 
there has only been a slight increase in publications on adults with 
achondroplasia. The reported morbidity rates and prevalence of medical 
complications are often based on a few studies where the methodology and 
representativeness can be questioned. Studies on sleep-related disorders and 
pregnancy-related complications were lacking. Multicenter natural history 
studies have recently been initiated. Future studies should report in accordance 
to methodological reference standards, to strengthen the reliability and 
generalizability of the findings, and to increase the relevance for implementing 
in clinical practice.

© 2019 The Authors. Clinical Genetics published by John Wiley & Sons A/S. 
Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cge.13542
PMCID: PMC6972520
PMID: 30916780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


424. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2019 Apr;25(4):490-498. doi: 
10.18553/jmcp.2019.25.4.490.

The Impact of Price Reductions After Loss of Exclusivity in a Cost-Effectiveness 
Analysis: Fingolimod Versus Interferon Beta-1a for the Treatment of 
Relapsing-Remitting Multiple Sclerosis.

Hua LH(1), Hersh CM(1), Morten P(2), Kusel J(2), Lin F(3), Cave J(3), Varga 
S(4), Herrera V(3), Ko JJ(3).

Author information:
(1)1 Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health, Las Vegas, Nevada.
(2)2 Costello Medical, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(3)3 Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey.
(4)4 Thomas Jefferson University College of Population Health, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania.

BACKGROUND: Cost-effectiveness analyses tend not to take into account the 
availability of lower-priced generics following loss of exclusivity (LOE) of 
branded products. By not considering these generics, which are typically adopted 
quickly, total costs are likely to be overestimated and may be unreflective of 
real-world payer conditions in the United States.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the impact of including future price reductions following 
LOE on the cost-effectiveness of fingolimod versus intramuscularly administered 
interferon beta-1a (IM IFNβ-1a) as treatments for multiple sclerosis.
METHODS: This model was adopted from a previously published Markov model and was 
conducted from a U.S. payer perspective over a 10-year time horizon. Patients 
with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis entered the model and received 
either fingolimod (an oral therapy) or IM IFNβ-1a (an injectable). These 
treatments reflect the interventions studied in the TRANSFORMS randomized 
clinical trial. Clinical, cost, and utility inputs were based on a recent 
cost-effectiveness review of therapies for multiple sclerosis. To model LOE, 
price reductions and the proportion of patients switching to generic versions 
following LOE were based on published estimates. Price reductions varied to 
reflect the difference in product types (oral vs. large molecule injectable). 
Assumptions were also made around the proportion of patients switching to 
generic versions over time following LOE and the projected date of LOE. Outcomes 
included per-patient total direct costs (medication, administration and 
monitoring, and disease-related costs including relapses), quality-adjusted 
life-years, and the incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year.
