of death was an autopsy confirmation (49.98%; 95% CI, 43.75-56.71) or death 
certificate (19.65%; 95% CI, 15.48-23.83) and according to whether the type of 
mortality cause was an indirect cause of death (13.96%; 95% CI, 9.42-18.51) or 
direct cause of death (44.45%; 95% CI, 29.81-50.10). The risk of 
pneumonia-associated death in patients with dementia was twice as high as among 
those without dementia (odds ratio, 2.15; 95% CI, 1.63-2.83; p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: The various frequencies of pneumonia-associated death in patients 
with dementia were associated with the information source, type of mortality 
cause, and study setting. Patients with dementia in the terminal stages urgently 
require careful clinical management of pneumonia, to maximize patient life 
expectancy and quality.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0213825
PMCID: PMC6417730
PMID: 30870526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


253. J Affect Disord. 2019 May 1;250:231-240. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.03.027.
Epub  2019 Mar 6.

How to modify persisting negative expectations in major depression? An 
experimental study comparing three strategies to inhibit cognitive immunization 
against novel positive experiences.

Kube T(1), Glombiewski JA(2), Gall J(3), Touissant L(3), Gärtner T(4), Rief 
W(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy, Philipps-University of 
Marburg, Gutenbergstraße 18, D-35032 Marburg, Germany; Department of Clinical 
Psychology and Psychotherapy, University of Koblenz-Landau, Ostbahnstr. 10, 
76829 Landau, Germany. Electronic address: tobias.kube@uni-marburg.de.
(2)Department of Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy, Philipps-University of 
Marburg, Gutenbergstraße 18, D-35032 Marburg, Germany; Department of Clinical 
Psychology and Psychotherapy, University of Koblenz-Landau, Ostbahnstr. 10, 
76829 Landau, Germany.
(3)Department of Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy, Philipps-University of 
Marburg, Gutenbergstraße 18, D-35032 Marburg, Germany.
(4)Schön Klinik Bad Arolsen, Hofgarten 10, D-34454 Bad Arolsen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Research has shown that negative expectations in major depressive 
disorder (MDD) often persist despite positive disconfirming experiences. To 
explain this phenomenon, the concept of cognitive immunization has been 
introduced: that is, individuals with MDD reappraise disconfirming positive 
evidence in such a way that negative expectations are maintained. In this study, 
we examined whether it is possible to inhibit cognitive immunization to 
facilitate expectation update.
METHODS: We examined 113 people with MDD being treated in an inpatient 
psychosomatic hospital. Using a previously validated paradigm, participants 
worked on a standardized performance test; we examined changes in negative 
performance-related expectations after positive expectation-disconfirming 
feedback. One experimental group received additional information increasing the 
value of the positive feedback ('INFORMATION'). Another group was instructed to 
recall the feedback after completing the task ('RECALL'). In a third group, 
participants' attention was shifted to potential expectation-disconfirming 
feedback ('ATTENTION'). In addition, a control group underwent the standard 
procedure of the paradigm.
RESULTS: The results showed significant group differences in the change in 
generalized performance expectations, with the largest changes in participants 
from the INFORMATION group. All experimental groups had lower values for 
cognitive immunization than the control group.
LIMITATIONS: Given that this proof-of-concept study was the first to examine 
strategies to inhibit cognitive immunization, the findings need to be replicated 
in future studies.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study confirms that cognitive immunization in MDD can 
be inhibited, thus facilitating adjusting negative expectations. The most 
promising results were found for the INFORMATION group, providing information to 
emphasize the relevance of expectation-disconfirming information.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2019.03.027
PMID: 30870773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Stereotact Funct Neurosurg. 2019;97(1):18-23. doi: 10.1159/000497165. Epub
2019  Mar 14.

Inherited Ataxia and Intrathecal Baclofen for the Treatment of Spasticity and 
Painful Spasms.

Berntsson SG(1), Gauffin H(2), Melberg A(3), Holtz A(4), Landtblom AM(3)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Neurology, Uppsala University, University 
Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden, shala.berntsson@neuro.uu.se.
(2)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Neurology, Medical Faculty, 
University of Linköping, Linköping, Sweden.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Neurology, Uppsala University, University 
Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, Neurosurgery, Uppsala University, University 
Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Intrathecal baclofen (ITB) treatment is considered a powerful tool 
in the management of severe spasticity in neurological conditions such as 
multiple sclerosis, cerebral palsy, and traumatic spinal cord and brain injury.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to assess the effectiveness of the 
ITB in patients with inherited ataxia suffering from severe painful spasms 
and/or spasticity.
METHOD: A total of 5 patients with spinocerebellar ataxia 3 or 7 or Friedreich's 
ataxia were included in this observational multicenter study. The patients were 
interviewed and completed outcome measures assessing pain (The Brief Pain 
Inventory), fatigue (Fatigue Severity Scale), and life satisfaction (LiSAT-9) 
before and 1 year after the treatment. Spasticity (Modified Ashworth Scale) and 
spasm frequency (SPFS) were measured objectively for each patient.
RESULTS: The mean treatment time was 1.9 years. Evaluation of established 
standard forms revealed symptomatic relief from spasticity, spasms, pain, and 
fatigue in addition to improved body posture, sleep, and life satisfaction after 
ITB treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: We report the potential beneficial effects of ITB treatment in 
patients with inherited ataxia who also suffer from spasticity/spasms. ITB 
treatment indication in neurological disorders allows for extension to the 
treatment of spasticity/ spasms in patients with hereditary ataxia.

© 2019 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000497165
PMID: 30870851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Int J Mol Sci. 2019 Mar 13;20(6):1255. doi: 10.3390/ijms20061255.

Thinking Outside the Bug: Molecular Targets and Strategies to Overcome 
Antibiotic Resistance.

Monserrat-Martinez A(1)(2), Gambin Y(3)(4), Sierecki E(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory Australia (EMBL Australia) Node in 
Single Molecule Science, Sydney, NSW 2031, Australia. 
a.monserrat-martinez@unsw.edu.au.
(2)School of Medical Sciences, The University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 
2031, Australia. a.monserrat-martinez@unsw.edu.au.
(3)European Molecular Biology Laboratory Australia (EMBL Australia) Node in 
Single Molecule Science, Sydney, NSW 2031, Australia. y.gambin@unsw.edu.au.
(4)School of Medical Sciences, The University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 
2031, Australia. y.gambin@unsw.edu.au.
(5)European Molecular Biology Laboratory Australia (EMBL Australia) Node in 
Single Molecule Science, Sydney, NSW 2031, Australia. e.sierecki@unsw.edu.au.
(6)School of Medical Sciences, The University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 
2031, Australia. e.sierecki@unsw.edu.au.

Since their discovery in the early 20th century, antibiotics have been used as 
the primary weapon against bacterial infections. Due to their prophylactic 
effect, they are also used as part of the cocktail of drugs given to treat 
complex diseases such as cancer or during surgery, in order to prevent 
infection. This has resulted in a decrease of mortality from infectious diseases 
and an increase in life expectancy in the last 100 years. However, as a 
consequence of administering antibiotics broadly to the population and sometimes 
misusing them, antibiotic-resistant bacteria have appeared. The emergence of 
resistant strains is a global health threat to humanity. Highly-resistant 
bacteria like Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-resistant) or Enterococcus 
faecium (vancomycin-resistant) have led to complications in intensive care 
units, increasing medical costs and putting patient lives at risk. The 
appearance of these resistant strains together with the difficulty in finding 
new antimicrobials has alarmed the scientific community. Most of the strategies 
currently employed to develop new antibiotics point towards novel approaches for 
drug design based on prodrugs or rational design of new molecules. However, 
targeting crucial bacterial processes by these means will keep creating 
evolutionary pressure towards drug resistance. In this review, we discuss 
antibiotic resistance and new options for antibiotic discovery, focusing in 
particular on new alternatives aiming to disarm the bacteria or empower the host 
to avoid disease onset.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms20061255
PMCID: PMC6470534
PMID: 30871132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


256. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2019 Jan;35(2):141-149. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462319000114. Epub 2019 Mar 15.

Cost-Effectiveness of Pain Management Strategies in Advanced Cancer.

Meads DM(1), O'Dwyer JL(1), Hulme CT(1), Lopez RR(1), Bennett MI(2).

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Health Economics,Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, 
University of Leeds,United Kingdom.
(2)Academic Unit of Palliative Care,Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, 
University of Leeds,United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVES: Uncontrolled pain in advanced cancer is a common problem and has 
significant impact on individuals' quality of life and use of healthcare 
resources. Interventions to help manage pain at the end of life are available, 
but there is limited economic evidence to support their wider implementation. We 
conducted a case study economic evaluation of two pain self-management 
interventions (PainCheck and Tackling Cancer Pain Toolkit [TCPT]) compared with 
usual care.
METHODS: We generated a decision-analytic model to facilitate the evaluation. 
This modelled the survival of individuals at the end of life as they moved 
through pain severity categories. Intervention effectiveness was based on 
published meta-analyses results. The evaluation was conducted from the 
perspective of the U.K. health service provider and reported cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY).
RESULTS: PainCheck and TCPT were cheaper (respective incremental costs -GBP148 
[-EUR168.53] and -GBP474 [-EUR539.74]) and more effective (respective 
incremental QALYs of 0.010 and 0.013) than usual care. There was a 65 percent 
and 99.5 percent chance of cost-effectiveness for PainCheck and TCPT, 
respectively. Results were relatively robust to sensitivity analyses. The most 
important driver of cost-effectiveness was level of pain reduction (intervention 
effectiveness). Although cost savings were modest per patient, these were 
considerable when accounting for the number of potential intervention 
beneficiaries.
CONCLUSIONS: Educational and monitoring/feedback interventions have the 
potential to be cost-effective. Economic evaluations based on estimates of 
effectiveness from published meta-analyses and using a decision modeling 
approach can support commissioning decisions and implementation of pain 
management strategies.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462319000114
PMID: 30871648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Vet Clin North Am Equine Pract. 2019 Apr;35(1):191-204. doi: 
10.1016/j.cveq.2018.11.002. Epub 2019 Mar 11.

Assessment of the Cardiovascular System in Horses During Prepurchase and 
Insurance Examinations.

Reef VB(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Imaging, Department of Clinical Studies, New Bolton Center, 
University of Pennsylvania, 382 West Street Road, Kennett Square, PA 19348, USA. 
Electronic address: vreef@vet.upenn.edu.

Arrhythmias detected on prepurchase examination should be confirmed with an ECG. 
Exercising ECG determines if the arrhythmia is overdriven during exercise or is 
a safety concern. An echocardiogram is needed in all horses with a grade 3/6 or 
louder mid to late systolic, holosystolic, or pansystolic murmur or any 
holodiastolic decrescendo murmur to identify the cardiac abnormality and its 
hemodynamic impact. Most horses with arrhythmias and murmurs have a normal 
performance career and life expectancy and are insurable. Risks for sudden death 
and congestive heart failure associated with the common murmurs and arrhythmias 
are identified, because these horses cannot be insured.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cveq.2018.11.002
PMID: 30871830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Lancet Neurol. 2019 May;18(5):417-418. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(19)30030-4.
Epub  2019 Mar 11.

The global burden of stroke: persistent and disabling.

Gorelick PB(1).

Author information:
(1)Davee Department of Neurology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Chicago, IL 60613, USA; Population Health Research Institute, McMaster 
University of Health Sciences and Hamilton University, Hamilton, ON, Canada. 
Electronic address: pgorelick@thorek.org.

Comment on
    Lancet Neurol. 2019 May;18(5):439-458.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(19)30030-4
PMID: 30871943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Lancet Psychiatry. 2019 Apr;6(4):293-304. doi:
10.1016/S2215-0366(19)30045-8.  Epub 2019 Mar 11.

Clinical and cost-effectiveness of the Managing Agitation and Raising Quality of 
Life (MARQUE) intervention for agitation in people with dementia in care homes: 
a single-blind, cluster-randomised controlled trial.

Livingston G(1), Barber J(2), Marston L(3), Stringer A(4), Panca M(3), Hunter 
R(3), Cooper C(5), Laybourne A(4), La Frenais F(4), Reeves S(5), Manela M(4), 
Lambe K(4), Banerjee S(6), Rapaport P(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK; Camden and 
Islington NHS Foundation Trust, St Pancras Hospital, London, UK. Electronic 
address: g.livingston@ucl.ac.uk.
(2)UCL Statistical Science and PRIMENT Clinical Trials Unit, University College 
London, London, UK.
(3)Department of Primary Care and Population Health, Faculty of Population 
Health Sciences, University College London, London, UK.
(4)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK.
(5)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK; Camden and 
Islington NHS Foundation Trust, St Pancras Hospital, London, UK.
(6)Centre for Dementia Studies, Brighton and Sussex Medical School and Sussex 
Partnership, NHS Foundation Trust, Brighton, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet Psychiatry. 2019 Apr;6(4):274-275.

BACKGROUND: Many people with dementia living in care homes have distressing and 
costly agitation symptoms. Interventions should be efficacious, scalable, and 
feasible.
METHODS: We did a parallel-group, cluster-randomised controlled trial in 20 care 
homes across England. Care homes were eligible if they had 17 residents or more 
with dementia, agreed to mandatory training for all eligible staff and the 
implementation of plans, and more than 60% of eligible staff agreed to 
participate. Staff were eligible if they worked during the day providing 
face-to-face care for residents with dementia. Residents were eligible if they 
had a known dementia diagnosis or scored positive on screening with the 
Noticeable Problems Checklist. A statistician independent of the study 
randomised care homes (1:1) to the Managing Agitation and Raising Quality of 
Life (MARQUE) intervention or treatment as usual (TAU) using computer-generated 
randomisation in blocks of two, stratified by type of home (residential or 
nursing). Care home staff were not masked to the intervention but were asked not 
to inform assessors. Residents with dementia, family carers, outcome assessors, 
statisticians, and health economists were masked to allocation until the data 
were analysed. MARQUE is an evidence-based manualised intervention, delivered by 
supervised graduate psychologists to staff in six interactive sessions. The 
primary outcome was agitation score at 8 months, measured using the 
Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory (CMAI). Analysis of the primary outcome was 
done in the modified intention-to-treat population, which included all randomly 
assigned residents for whom CMAI data was available at 8 months. Mortality was 
assessed in all randomly assigned residents. This study is registered with the 
ISRCTN registry, number ISRCTN96745365.
FINDINGS: Between June 14, 2016, and July 4, 2017, we randomised ten care homes 
(189 residents) to the MARQUE intervention and ten care homes (215 residents) to 
TAU. At 8 months, primary outcome data were available for 155 residents in the 
MARQUE group and 163 residents in the TAU group. At 8 months, no significant 
differences in mean CMAI scores were identified between the MARQUE and TAU 
groups (adjusted difference -0·40 [95% CI -3·89 to 3·09; p=0·8226]). In the 
intervention care homes, 84% of all eligible staff completed all sessions. The 
mean difference in cost between the MARQUE and TAU groups was £204 (-215 to 623; 
p=0·320) and mean difference in quality-adjusted life-years was 0·015 (95% CI 
-0·004 to 0·034; p=0·127). At 8 months, 27 (14%) of 189 residents in the MARQUE 
group and 41 (19%) of 215 residents in the TAU group had died. The prescription 
of antipsychotic drugs was not significantly different between the MARQUE group 
and the TAU group (odds ratio 0·66; 95% CI 0·26 to 1·69, p=0·3880).
INTERPRETATION: The MARQUE intervention was not efficacious for agitation 
although feasible and cost-effective in terms of quality of life. Addressing 
agitation in care homes might require resourcing for delivery by professional 
staff of a more intensive intervention, implementing social and activity times, 
and a longer time to implement change.
FUNDING: UK Economic and Social Research Council and the National Institute of 
Health Research.

Copyright © 2019 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2215-0366(19)30045-8
PMID: 30872010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. IEEE Trans Neural Syst Rehabil Eng. 2019 Apr;27(4):712-723. doi: 
10.1109/TNSRE.2019.2904924. Epub 2019 Mar 14.

Design of a Low Profile, Unpowered Ankle Exoskeleton That Fits Under Clothes: 
Overcoming Practical Barriers to Widespread Societal Adoption.

Yandell MB, Tacca JR, Zelik KE.

Here, we present the design of a novel unpowered ankle exoskeleton that is low 
profile, lightweight, quiet, and low cost to manufacture, intrinsically adapts 
to different walking speeds, and does not restrict non-sagittal joint motion; 
while still providing assistive ankle torque that can reduce demands on the 
biological calf musculature. This paper is an extension of the 
previously-successful ankle exoskeleton concept by Collins, Wiggin, and Sawicki. 
We created a device that blends the torque assistance of the prior exoskeleton 
with the form-factor benefits of clothing. Our design integrates a low profile 
under-the-foot clutch and a soft conformal shank interface, coupled by an ankle 
assistance spring that operates in parallel with the user's calf muscles. We 
fabricated and characterized technical performance of a prototype through 
benchtop testing and then validated device functionality in two gait analysis 
case studies. To our knowledge, this is the first ankle plantarflexion 
assistance exoskeleton that could be feasibly worn under typical daily clothing, 
without restricting ankle motion, and without components protruding 
substantially from the shoe, leg, waist, or back. Our new design highlights the 
potential for performance-enhancing exoskeletons that are inexpensive, 
unobtrusive, and can be used on a wide scale to benefit a broad range of 
individuals throughout society, such as the elderly, individuals with impaired 
plantarflexor muscle strength, or recreational users. In summary, this paper 
demonstrates how an unpowered ankle exoskeleton could be redesigned to more 
seamlessly integrate into daily life, while still providing performance benefits 
for common locomotion tasks.

DOI: 10.1109/TNSRE.2019.2904924
PMCID: PMC6592282
PMID: 30872237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Ann Ital Chir. 2019;90:1-2.

Bilateral prophylactic mastectomy in BRCA mutation carriers: what surgeons need 
to know.

Franceschini G, Di Leone A, Terribile D, Sanchez MA, Masetti R.

Aim of this paper is to allows to analyze a topic of great relevance and media 
interest such as the role of prophylactic mastectomy in healthy women with BRCA 
mutation proposing to the surgeons some useful informations for decision-making. 
Less than 15% of all breast cancers are associated with germline genetic 
mutations. The majority of hereditary breast tumors are due to mutations in 
BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes that are responsible for only one third of hereditary 
cases. The risk estimates are extremely heterogeneous with a mean cumulative 
lifetime breast cancer risk of approximately 72% in BRCA1 and 69% in BRCA2 by 
age 80. The breast cancer is often bilateral and multicentric in BRCA mutation 
carriers. BRCA1 carriers have earlier-onset disease, particularly before age 50 
and are more likely to develop aggressive triple-negative breast cancer than 
BRCA2 carriers or those who are BRCA mutation negative 1. Multiple strategies 
are effective in managing the risk of breast cancer in these women, including 
surveillance, chemoprevention, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and risk-reducing 
mastectomy. More intensive surveillance, including annual mammography and breast 
magnetic resonance imaging screening (commonly alternated every six months) 
beginning at age 25 or individualized based upon the earliest age of onset in 
the family, have significantly improved early detection of breast cancer among 
patients with deleterious BRCA mutations 1. The risk-reducing benefit of 
chemoprevention is not as well defined; chemopreventive strategies to reduce the 
risk of breast cancer have focused exclusively on prevention in high-risk women 
and involve the use of selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) and 
aromatase inhibitors for breast cancer prevention. Only limited data are 
available regarding the preventive benefit of tamoxifene in BRCA mutations 
carriers 1. Risk-reducing bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy is recommended for 
BRCA mutation carriers by 35 to 40 or when childbearing is completed, or 
individualized based on age of onset of ovarian cancer in the family; bilateral 
salpingo-oophorectomy decreases the risk of both breast cancer and ovarian 
cancer in BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation carriers and has also been associated with 
reduced all cause, breast cancer-specific, and ovarian cancer- specific 
mortality; risk-reducing bilateral salpingooophorectomy seems to offer an 
approximate 50% relative reduction in breast cancer risk 1. Prophylactic 
mastectomy provides the greatest reduction in risk of breast cancer development. 
In both retrospective and prospective observational studies, bilateral 
prophylactic mastectomy decreases the incidence of breast cancer by 90 percent 
or more in patients with BRCA mutation; it also is able to determine a variable 
gain in life expectancy compared to radiological surveillance; besides 
risk-reducing mastectomy allows to contain the strong anxiety and the fear of 
getting sick that often compromise the quality of life of BRCA mutation carriers 
2. Prophylactic mastectomy could be technically performed in different ways. 
However, regarding the surgical technique, on the basis of current evidence, the 
gold standard seems to be represented by nipple-sparing mastectomy which, thanks 
to the preservation of the skin envelope and the nipple-areola complex, is able 
to optimize the oncological and aesthetic results. Nipple-sparing mastectomy 
provides superior cosmetic results. This procedure is usually performed through 
an inframmamary or radial or axillary incision where the skin is carefully 
dissected off the breast until all anatomic boundaries of the breast are reached 
and the gland in its entirety is excised. This technique does not seem to 
compromise the oncological/preventive efficacy compared to other types of 
mastectomy. In a multi-institution review of prophylactic 346 BRCA carriers 
undergoing either bilateral mastectomy or contralateral mastectomy with nipple- 
areola sparing there were no cases of breast cancer, whereas, based on models, 
22 would have been expected 3. However nipple-sparing mastectomy must be carried 
out with technical skill and maximum attention not to leave macroscopic residues 
of mammary gland in particular in the axillary extension, peripheral extremities 
of the gland and the nipple-areola complex; it is necessary to perform an 
accurate dissection and a meticulous preparation of the skin flaps and of the 
areola-nipple complex which must be reasonably thin without however compromising 
its vitality. Whenever the patients opt to proceed with bilateral prophylactic 
mastectomy, an accurate preoperative radiological study should always be 
performed with mammography, ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging to rule 
out the presence of suspicious breast lesions and minimize the risk of occult 
carcinomas by definitive histological examination. In the absence of 
contraindications, all patients should be candidates for breast reconstruction 
in order to minimize the negative physical and psychological impact of the 
mastectomy; the breast reconstruction should preferably be immediate, performed 
at the same time of the prophylactic mastectomy, by a team of dedicated plastic 
surgeons, or with permanent prosthesis or autologous tissues; the choice of the 
most appropriate reconstructive technique depends on various factors such as the 
physical/anatomical structure of the woman, the morphology/ degree of breast 
ptosis, the comorbidities but also the patient's wishes and preferences 1. 
However, in the discussion on the possibility of carrying out a prophylactic 
mastectomy, it is always necessary to consider a series of issues related to 
this procedure: - the possible oncological failure because risk-reducing 
mastectomy does not completely eliminate the risk of developing breast cancer; 
there is always a residual risk of about 5% to be related to the possible 
presence of residual glandular tissue or ectopic breast tissue 2; - the surgical 
morbidity with overall complication rates of 15-20% such as ischemia of the skin 
and/or of the areola-nipple complex, haematomas, infections, implant failure, 
partial/total autologous flap loss; in a considerable percentage of cases there 
is also the need to resort after the prophylactic mastectomy to further 
aesthetic/ plastic procedures to correct some imperfections or repair surgical 
complications 3-5; - the presence of sequelae such as the loss of sensitivity of 
the areola-nipple complex, possible paresthesias, painful sensations and the 
need for re-adaptation to a different body image 2; - the possible body image 
issues due to many factors, such as self-consciousness, feeling less sexually 
attractive and dissatisfaction with the scars 2,3. In addition to these issues 
we must add that most of the studies that show a gain in life expectancy thanks 
to prophylactic mastectomy, are based only on mathematical models and that the 
few prospective cohort studies often do not show a statistically significant 
improvement in terms of survival among women undergoing MP and intensive 
radiological surveillance 1,2. Therefore in consideration of the benefits but 
also of the problems that the prophylactic mastectomy involves, all the 
international guidelines highlight that this procedure must be considered, must 
be discussed with healthy BRCA women, however without giving an absolute 
recommendation to perform it 1. This discussion must take place, case by case, 
in specialized breast centers with a dedicated risk team. A personalized 
multidisciplinary path should guarantee an accurate genetic and clinical 
counselling, adequate psychological support and detailed information about all 
alternative risk management strategies. Clinical decision-making about 
strategies to pursue for breast cancer risk reduction should involve a tradeoff 
between life expectancy and quality of life. However if the patient and the 
medical team opt to proceed with prophylactic surgery, the cumulative evidence 
to date supports nipple sparing mastectomy with immediate reconstruction as an 
appropriate risk-reducing procedure to optimize the oncological and aesthetic 
results and improve quality of life.

PMID: 30872561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Sci Rep. 2019 Mar 14;9(1):4505. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-41174-5.

Iodine nanoparticles enhance radiotherapy of intracerebral human glioma in mice 
and increase efficacy of chemotherapy.

Hainfeld JF(1), Ridwan SM(2), Stanishevskiy Y(3), Panchal R(2), Slatkin DN(3), 
Smilowitz HM(2).

Author information:
(1)Nanoprobes, Inc, 95 Horseblock Rd., Unit 1, Yaphank, NY, 11980, USA. 
hainfeld@nanoprobes.com.
(2)University of Connecticut Health Center, Department of Cell Biology, 263 
Farmington Ave., Farmington, CT, USA.
(3)Nanoprobes, Inc, 95 Horseblock Rd., Unit 1, Yaphank, NY, 11980, USA.

Gliomas and other brain tumors have evaded durable therapies, ultimately causing 
about 20% of all cancer deaths. Tumors are widespread in the brain at time of 
diagnosis, limiting surgery and radiotherapy effectiveness. Drugs are also 
poorly effective. Radiotherapy (RT) is limited by dose to normal tissue. 
However, high-atomic-number elements absorb X-rays and deposit the absorbed dose 
locally, even doubling (or more) the local dose. Previously we showed that gold 
nanoparticles (AuNPs) with RT could eradicate some brain tumors in mice and many 
other preclinical studies confirmed AuNPs as outstanding radioenhancers. 
However, impediments to clinical translation of AuNPs have been poor clearance, 
skin discoloration, and cost. We therefore developed iodine nanoparticles (INPs) 
that are almost colorless, non-toxic, lower cost, and have reasonable clearance, 
thus overcoming major drawbacks of AuNPs. Here we report the use of iodine 
nanoparticle radiotherapy (INRT) in treating advanced human gliomas (U87) grown 
orthotopically in nude mice resulting in a more than a doubling of median life 
extension compared to RT alone. Significantly, INRT also enhanced the efficacy 
of chemotherapy when it was combined with the chemotherapeutic agent Doxil, 
resulting in some longer-term survivors. While ongoing optimization studies 
should further improve INRT, clinical translation appears promising.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-41174-5
PMCID: PMC6418169
PMID: 30872755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: James Hainfeld is a part owner of Nanoprobes, 
Inc. Other authors have declared that no competing interest exists.


263. Front Pharmacol. 2019 Feb 27;10:131. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2019.00131.
eCollection  2019.

Soy Isoflavone Extract Does Not Increase the Intoxicating Effects of Acute 
Alcohol Ingestion in Human Volunteers.

Martínez-Riera R(1)(2)(3), Pérez-Mañá C(2)(4), Papaseit E(2)(4), Fonseca 
F(1)(2), de la Torre R(5)(6), Pizarro N(2)(5), Torrens M(1)(2), Farré M(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Neuropsiquiatria i Addiccions, Institut Hospital del Mar 
d'Investigacions Mèdiques (IMIM), Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Legal Medicine and Department of Pharmacology, 
Therapeutics and Toxicoloy, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Cerdanyola del 
Vallés, Spain.
(3)Red de Salud Mental Gipuzkoa, Osakidetza, San Sebastián-Donostia, Spain.
(4)Clinical Pharmacology Unit, Hospital Universitari Germans Trias i Pujol and 
Institut de Recerca Germans Trias i Pujol (IGTP), Badalona, Spain.
(5)Integrative Pharmacology and Systems Neurosciences Research Group, Institut 
Hospital del Mar d'Investigacions Mèdiques (IMIM), Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Department of Experimental and Health Sciences (CEXS), Universitat Pompeu 
Fabra, Barcelona, Spain.

Soy beans contain isoflavones, including daidzein and genistein, with biological 
activities related to therapeutic effects in reducing osteoporosis, decreasing 
adverse menopausal manifestations, providing protection from cardiovascular 
diseases, and reducing hormone-dependent cancers and age-related 
cognitive-decline. Daidzein has been described as inhibiting the 
aldehyde-dehydrogenase-2 enzyme (ALDH2), and reducing alcohol use in clinical 
pilot studies. Our aim was to evaluate the possible interactions between a soy 
extract product and alcohol in a crossover, single blind, randomized study. Ten 
healthy male volunteers participated in two experimental sessions: one with a 
single dose of alcohol (0.5 g/kg, Vodka Absolut, Sweden), and the other with 
four capsules of a soy extract product (Super-Absorbable Soy Isoflavones, 
Life-Extension, United States) and, 2 h later, the same dose of alcohol. Results 
showed no differences in vital signs except a slightly higher significative 
reduction in diastolic blood pressure at 2, 3, 4, and 8 h after administration 
with alcohol alone in comparison with soy extract+alcohol. Ethanol-induced 
subjective and adverse effects were similar for both conditions with the 
exception of headache (higher at 8 h after alcohol alone). Our results 
demonstrate that a single dose of a soy isoflavone extract did not influence 
alcohol pharmacokinetics and pharmacological effects and did not induce any 
disulfiram-reaction symptoms. Soy extract and alcohol did not interact and can 
be administered safely.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2019.00131
PMCID: PMC6400998
PMID: 30873023


264. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2019 Feb 19;19(6):1-199. eCollection 2019.

Internet-Delivered Cognitive Behavioural Therapy for Major Depression and 
Anxiety Disorders: A Health Technology Assessment.

Health Quality Ontario.

Collaborators: Manoharan A, McMartin K, Young C, Gajic-Veljanoski O, Ali A, 
Walter M.

BACKGROUND: Major depression is defined as a period of depression lasting at 
least 2 weeks characterized by depressed mood, most of the day, nearly every 
day, and/or markedly diminished interest or pleasure in all, or almost all, 
activities. Anxiety disorders encompass a broad range of disorders in which 
people experience feelings of fear and excessive worry that interfere with 
normal day-to-day functioning.Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) is a form of 
evidence-based psychotherapy used to treat major depression and anxiety 
disorders. Internet-delivered CBT (iCBT) is structured, goal-oriented CBT 
delivered via the internet. It may be guided, in which the patient communicates 
with a regulated health care professional, or unguided, in which the patient is 
not supported by a regulated health care professional.
METHODS: We conducted a health technology assessment, which included an 
evaluation of clinical benefit, value for money, and patient preferences and 
values related to the use of iCBT for the treatment of mild to moderate major 
depression or anxiety disorders. We performed a systematic review of the 
clinical and economic literature and conducted a grey literature search. We 
reported Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation 
(GRADE) ratings if sufficient information was provided. When other quality 
assessment tools were used by the systematic review authors in the included 
studies, these were reported. We assessed the risk of bias within the included 
reviews. We also developed decision-analytic models to compare the costs and 
benefits of unguided iCBT, guided iCBT, face-to-face CBT, and usual care over 1 
year using a sequential approach. We further explored the lifetime and 
short-term cost-effectiveness of stepped-care models, including iCBT, compared 
with usual care. We calculated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) 
from the perspective of the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care and 
estimated the 5-year budget impact of publicly funding iCBT for mild to moderate 
major depression or anxiety disorders in Ontario. To contextualize the potential 
value of iCBT as a treatment option for major depression or anxiety disorders, 
we spoke with people with these conditions.
RESULTS: People who had undergone guided iCBT for mild to moderate major 
depression (standardized mean difference [SMD] = 0.83, 95% CI 0.59-1.07, GRADE 
moderate), generalized anxiety disorder (SMD = 0.84, 95% CI 0.45-1.23, GRADE 
low), panic disorder (small to very large effects, GRADE low), and social phobia 
(SMD = 0.85, 95% CI 0.66-1.05, GRADE moderate) showed a statistically 
significant improvement in symptoms compared with people on a waiting list. 
People who had undergone iCBT for panic disorder (SMD= 1.15, 95% CI: 0.94 to 
1.37) and iCBT for social anxiety disorder (SMD=0.91, 95% CI: 0.74-1.07) showed 
a statistically significant improvement in symptoms compared with people on a 
waiting list. There was a statistically significant improvement in quality of 
life for people with generalized anxiety disorder who had undergone iCBT (SMD = 
0.38, 95% CI 0.08-0.67) compared with people on a waiting list. The mean 
differences between people who had undergone iCBT compared with usual care at 3, 
5, and 8 months were -4.3, -3.9, and -5.9, respectively. The negative mean 
difference at each follow-up showed an improvement in symptoms of depression for 
participants randomized to the iCBT group compared with usual care. People who 
had undergone guided iCBT showed no statistically significant improvement in 
symptoms of panic disorder compared with individual or group face-to-face CBT (d 
= 0.00, 95% CI -0.41 to 0.41, GRADE very low). Similarly, there was no 
statistically significant difference in symptoms of specific phobia in people 
who had undergone guided iCBT compared with brief therapist-led exposure (GRADE 
very low). There was a small statistically significant improvement in symptoms 
in favour of guided iCBT compared with group face-to-face CBT (d= 0.41, 95% CI 
0.03-0.78, GRADE low) for social phobia. There was no statistically significant 
improvement in quality of life reported for people with panic disorder who had 
undergone iCBT compared with face-to-face CBT (SMD = -0.07, 95% CI -0.34 to 
0.21).Guided iCBT was the optimal strategy in the reference case cost-utility 
analyses. For adults with mild to moderate major depression, guided iCBT was 
associated with increases in both quality-adjusted survival (0.04 
quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]) and cost ($1,257), yielding an ICER of 
$31,575 per QALY gained when compared with usual care. In adults with anxiety 
disorders, guided iCBT was also associated with increases in both 
quality-adjusted survival (0.03 QALYs) and cost ($1,395), yielding an ICER of 
$43,214 per QALY gained when compared with unguided iCBT. In this population, 
guided iCBT was associated with an ICER of $26,719 per QALY gained when compared 
with usual care. The probability of cost-effectiveness of guided iCBT for major 
depression and anxiety disorders, respectively, was 67% and 70% at 
willingness-to-pay of $100,000 per QALY gained. Guided iCBT delivered within 
stepped-care models appears to represent good value for money for the treatment 
of mild to moderate major depression and anxiety disorders.Assuming a 3% 
increase in access per year (from about 8,000 people in year 1 to about 32,000 
people in year 5), the net budget impact of publicly funding guided iCBT for the 
treatment of mild to moderate major depression would range from about $10 
million in year 1 to about $40 million in year 5. The corresponding net budget 
impact for the treatment of anxiety disorders would range from about $16 million 
in year 1 (about 13,000 people) to about $65 million in year 5 (about 52,000 
people).People with depression or an anxiety disorder with whom we spoke 
reported that iCBT improves access for those who face challenges with 
face-to-face therapy because of costs, time, or the severity of their condition. 
They reported that iCBT provides better control over the pace, time, and 
location of therapy, as well as greater access to educational material. Some 
reported barriers to iCBT include the cost of therapy; the need for a computer 
and internet access, computer literacy, and the ability to understand complex 
written information. Language and disability barriers also exist. Reported 
limitations to iCBT include the ridigity of the program, the lack of 
face-to-face interactions with a therapist, technological difficulties, and the 
inability of an internet protocol to treat severe depression and some types of 
anxiety disorder.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with waiting list, guided iCBT is effective and likely 
results in symptom improvement in mild to moderate major depression and social 
phobia. Guided iCBT may improve the symptoms of generalized anxiety disorder and 
panic disorder compared with waiting list. However, we are uncertain about the 
effectiveness of iCBT compared with individual or group face-to-face CBT. Guided 
iCBT represents good value for money and could be offered for the short-term 
treatment of adults with mild to moderate major depression or anxiety disorders. 
Most people with mild to moderate depression or anxiety disorders with whom we 
spoke felt that, despite some perceived limitations, iCBT provides greater 
control over the time, pace, and location of therapy. It also improves access 
for people who could not otherwise access therapy because of cost, time, or the 
nature of their health condition.

PMCID: PMC6394534
PMID: 30873251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Ann Glob Health. 2019 Feb 25;85(1):17. doi: 10.5334/aogh.2403.

Children's Environmental Health in South and Southeast Asia: Networking for 
Better Child Health Outcomes.

Sly PD(1), Trottier B(2), Carpenter D(3), Cha'on U(4), Cormier S(5), Galluzzo 
B(6), Ghosh S(7), Goldizen F(1), Heacock M(2), Jagals P(1), Joshi HD(8), 
Kathuria P(9), Ha LT(10), Magsumbol MS(7), Navasumrit P(11), Prabhakaran P(7), 
Sen B(7), Skelly C(12), Suraweera I(13), Vong S(14), Wangdi C(15), Suk WA(2).

Author information:
(1)Children's Health and Environment Program, the University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, QLD, AU.
(2)National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, Research Triangle Park, 
NC, US.
(3)Institute for Health and the Environment, University at Albany, Albany, NY, 
US.
(4)Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen, TH.
(5)Louisana State University, Baton Rouge, LA, US.
(6)MDB, Inc., Washington D.C., US.
(7)Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi, IN.
(8)Yeti Health Science Academy, Purbanchal University, Kathmandu, NP.
(9)Hriday Shan, Delhi, IN.
(10)National Institute of Occupational and Environmental Health, VN.
(11)Chulabhorn Research Institute, Bangkok, TH.
(12)Public Health Dorset, Dorchester, UK.
(13)Directorate of Environmental and Occupational Health, Ministry of Health, 
Colombo, LK.
(14)Department of Preventive Medicine, Ministry of Health, KH.
(15)Ministry of Health, Thimphu, BT.

Children are particularly vulnerable to environmental hazards because they 
receive higher doses of pollutants in any given environment and often do not 
have equitable access to social protection mechanisms such as environmental and 
health care services. The World Health Organization established a global network 
of collaborating centres that address children's environmental health (CEH). The 
network developed a focus on low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) and is 
broadening its reach by conducting regional workshops for CEH.Objective: This 
paper reports on the outcomes of a workshop held in conjunction with the 17th 
International Conference (November 2017) of the Pacific Basin Consortium for 
Environment and Health, focused on the state of CEH in South and Southeast Asia 
as presented by seven countries from the region (India, Bangladesh, Nepal, 
Bhutan, Vietnam, Thailand, Sri Lanka).Workshop outcomes: Country reports 
presented at the meeting show a high degree of similarity with respect to the 
issues threatening the health of children. The most common problems are outdoor 
and household air pollution in addition to exposure to heavy metals, industrial 
chemicals, and pesticides. Many children still do not have adequate access to 
clean water and improved sanitation while infectious diseases remain a problem, 
especially for children living in poverty. Child labour is widely prevalent, 
generally without adequate training or personal protective equipment. The 
children now face the dual burden of undernutrition and stunting on the one hand 
and overnutrition and obesity on the other.Conclusion: It is evident that some 
countries in these regions are doing better than others in varying areas of CEH. 
By establishing and participating in regional networks, countries can learn from 
each other and harmonise their efforts to protect CEH so that all can benefit 
from closer interactions.

© 2019 The Author(s). This is an open-access article distributed under the terms 
of the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC-BY 4.0), which 
permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided 
the original author and source are credited. See 
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.

DOI: 10.5334/aogh.2403
PMCID: PMC6571144
PMID: 30873796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests to 
declare.


266. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2019 Apr 3;11(13):12613-12621. doi: 
10.1021/acsami.8b20714. Epub 2019 Mar 26.

Wafer-Scale Substitutional Doping of Monolayer MoS(2) Films for High-Performance 
Optoelectronic Devices.

Kim Y, Bark H, Kang B, Lee C.

The substitutional doping method is ideally suited to generating doped 
two-dimensional (2D) materials for practical device applications as it does not 
damage or destabilize such materials. However, recently reported substitutional 
doping techniques for 2D materials have given rise to discontinuities and low 
uniformities, which hamper the extension of such techniques to large-scale 
production. In the current work, we demonstrated uniform substitutional doping 
of monolayer MoS2 in a 2 in. wafer of area >13 cm2. The devices based on doped 
MoS2 showed extremely high uniformity and stability in electrical properties in 
ambient conditions for 30 days. The photodetectors based on the doped MoS2 
samples showed an ultrahigh photoresponsivity of 5 × 105 A/W, a detectivity of 5 
× 1012 Jones, and a fast response rate of 5 ms than did those based on undoped 
MoS2. This work showed the feasibility of real-life applications based on 
functionalized 2D semiconductors for next-generation electronic and 
optoelectronic devices.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.8b20714
PMID: 30873829


267. Prev Chronic Dis. 2019 Mar 14;16:E27. doi: 10.5888/pcd16.180481.

Economic Hardship and Life Expectancy in Nassau County, Florida.

Joiner J(1), Jordan M(2), Reid K(2), Kintziger K(3), Duclos C(2).

Author information:
(1)Florida Department of Health, Public Health Research Unit, Division of 
Community Health Promotion, 4052 Bald Cypress Way Bin #A24, Tallahassee, FL 
32399-1712. Email: jessica.joiner@flhealth.gov.
(2)Florida Department of Health, Public Health Research Unit, Division of 
Community Health Promotion, Tallahassee, Florida.
(3)University of Tennessee, Department of Public Health, Knoxville, Tennessee.

DOI: 10.5888/pcd16.180481
PMCID: PMC6429688
PMID: 30873940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc. 2019 Jun;27(6):1782-1790. doi: 
10.1007/s00167-019-05436-z. Epub 2019 Mar 14.

Autograft or allograft for reconstruction of anterior cruciate ligament: a 
health economics perspective.

Mistry H(1), Metcalfe A(2), Colquitt J(3), Loveman E(3), Smith NA(4), Royle 
P(5), Waugh N(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Sciences, Warwick Medical School, Gibbet Hill Campus, 
University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK. hema.mistry@warwick.ac.uk.
(2)Warwick Clinical Trials Unit, University of Warwick Medical School, Coventry, 
CV4 7AL, UK.
(3)Effective Evidence, Waterlooville, Hampshire, PO8 9SE, UK.
(4)Department of Orthopaedics, University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire, 
Coventry, CV2 2DX, UK.
(5)Division of Health Sciences, Warwick Medical School, Gibbet Hill Campus, 
University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK.

PURPOSE: To assess the clinical and cost-effectiveness of allografts versus 
autografts in the reconstruction of anterior cruciate ligaments.
METHODS: Systematic review of comparative clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness analysis.
RESULTS: Both autograft and allograft reconstruction are highly effective. 
Recent studies show little difference in failure rates between autografts and 
allografts (about 6% and 7%, respectively). In cost-effectiveness analysis, the 
price differential is the main factor, making autografts the first choice. 
However, there will be situations, particularly in revision ACL reconstruction, 
where an allograft may be preferred, or may be the only reasonable option 
available.
CONCLUSION: In ACL reconstruction, clinical results with autografts are as good 
as or slightly better than with allografts. Allografts cost more, indicating 
that autografts are more cost-effective and should usually be first choice.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: II.

DOI: 10.1007/s00167-019-05436-z
PMCID: PMC6541574
PMID: 30874836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no potential 
conflict of interest.


269. Chirurg. 2019 Apr;90(4):287-292. doi: 10.1007/s00104-019-0936-y.

[German Society for General and Visceral Surgery (DGAV) risk calculator of 
interventions for colorectal cancer : Presentation of a surgical algorithm on 
patient participation and quality assurance].

[Article in German]

Buhr HJ(1), Klinger C(2), Lehmann KS(2), Strahwald B(3), Rieger A(3).

Author information:
(1)Haus der Bundespressekonferenz, Deutsche Gesellschaft für Allgemein- und 
Viszeralchirurgie e. V., Schiffbauerdamm 40, 10117, Berlin, Deutschland. 
hbuhr@dgav.de.
(2)Haus der Bundespressekonferenz, Deutsche Gesellschaft für Allgemein- und 
Viszeralchirurgie e. V., Schiffbauerdamm 40, 10117, Berlin, Deutschland.
(3)Institut für medizinische Informationsverarbeitung, Biometrie und 
Epidemiologie, LMU München, München, Deutschland.

Algorithms are increasingly being developed on the basis of large data sets, 
also in the field of health, whether for predicting treatment outcomes or 
life-expectancy. In surgery it is also becoming increasingly more important to 
analyze complications at an early stage and to subsequently reduce them. The aim 
is to improve the quality of treatment and quality of life and thus to improve 
patient well-being. The German Society for General and Visceral Surgery (DGAV) 
has developed 12 StuDoQ registers in which pseudonymized data from a total of 
150,000 patients are recorded. Risk models were developed and validated at the 
Institute for Medical Information Processing, Biometry and Epidemiology (IBE) of 
the Ludwig Maximilian University in Munich using the collected data from the 
StuDoQ|colon cancer and StuDoQ|rectal cancer registers. Based on the collected 
patient data, the risk calculator determines the statistical probability of the 
individual complication profile of the patient who is to undergo surgery. The 
aim is to support surgeons and patients in the decision making process for the 
individual procedure. The surgeon with his individual experience ultimately 
remains responsible for the patient.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-019-0936-y
PMID: 30874865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Support Care Cancer. 2019 Jul;27(7):2349-2360. doi:
10.1007/s00520-019-4656-0.  Epub 2019 Mar 12.

Effectiveness of therapeutic inflatable ball self-exercises for improving 
shoulder function and quality of life in breast cancer survivors after sentinel 
lymph node dissection.

Kim M(1), Lee M(2), Kim M(3), Oh S(3), Jung S(4), Yoon B(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Science, Korea University Graduate School, Seoul, South 
Korea.
(2)Korea National Rehabilitation Research Institute, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Medical Health Research Center, Korea University, Seoul, South Korea.
(4)Department of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, Anam Hospital, Korea University, 
Seoul, South Korea.
(5)Department of Health Science, Korea University Graduate School, Seoul, South 
Korea. yoonbc@korea.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: The survival rate of breast cancer survivors (BCSs) is > 90%. 
Particular issues are upper arm dysfunction caused by surgery and treatments. 
Physical activity has been recommended to improve shoulder function and quality 
of life (QoL) in BCSs. However, rehabilitation programs tend not to be 
continuous.
PURPOSE: To explore the effectiveness of therapeutic inflatable ball 
self-exercise for improving shoulder function and QoL in breast cancer survivors 
(BCSs) following breast cancer surgery.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Seventy-two BCSs were allocated to two groups, 
conventional self-exercise (CSE; n = 34; age, 48.9 ± 7.2 years) and therapeutic 
inflatable ball self-exercise (IBE; n = 38; age, 47.7 ± 8.9 years); 22 in the 
CSE and 23 in the IBE group completed the interventions. Both groups performed 
intervention for 12 weeks, three times per week and 15 min a day at least. 
Measurement was performed three times for shoulder range of motion (ROM), 
handgrip strength, Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI), and Functional 
Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast (FACT-B).
RESULT: Flexion and extension of shoulder ROM showed significant differences 
between the two groups at 12 weeks. Flexion and extension of shoulder ROM showed 
significant differences for t1-t2 (p = 0.02) and t0-t1 (p = 0.04). Abduction 
showed a significant difference for t0-t1 (p = 0.03), t1-t2 (p = 0.02), and 
t0-t2 (p = 0.01). CSE (7 points) and IBE (20 points) satisfied the MDC in FACT-B 
total score. The MDC of the SPADI total score was 13 points in the CSE group and 
9 points in the IBE group.
CONCLUSION: IBE would be more appropriate to start the rehabilitation for BCSs 
and CSE would be effective after the pain has improved.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-019-4656-0
PMID: 30874927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2019 Mar;52(2):122-129. doi: 10.1007/s00391-019-01530-6.
 Epub 2019 Mar 14.

[Death is a respecter of persons : 30 years of research comparing European 
countries regarding social inequality in mortality].

[Article in German]

Bopp M(1), Mackenbach JP(2).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Epidemiologie, Biostatistik und Prävention, Universität Zürich, 
Hirschengraben 84, 8001, Zürich, Schweiz. matthias.bopp@uzh.ch.
(2)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, Niederlande.

BACKGROUND: In 1989 the first international comparisons of mortality differences 
according to educational level and occupational status were published. A few 
years later systematic comparisons between European countries were initiated at 
the Erasmus University in Rotterdam. This became a trigger for several European 
Union (EU)-funded collaboration programs scrutinizing social inequalities in 
health. The collaboration revealed substantial differences in mortality within 
and between European populations.
OBJECTIVE: This article provides a synthesis of the most important research 
results over the past 30 years and also identifies existing research gaps and 
potentials.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Descriptive summary of research results comparing European 
countries regarding male and female all-cause and cause-specific mortality 
according to educational level and occupational status.
RESULTS: In all European populations analyzed there was a consistent gradient 
with substantial and in part increasing advantages for higher socioeconomic 
status groups. There is, however, substantial variation between individual 
countries. This also applies to trends and cause of death-specific analyses. 
While relative differences have increased in virtually all populations, absolute 
differences have often decreased in many populations. Among women and in higher 
ages the relative differences were smaller. Within Europe, the southern 
countries had the smallest and the eastern countries the largest gradients. 
Tobacco and alcohol-related diseases had an especially noteworthy impact on 
trends and gradients.
