    Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 2019 Sep;146(3):390-391.

Pre‐eclampsia (PE) is a multisystem disorder that typically affects 2%–5% of 
pregnant women and is one of the leading causes of maternal and perinatal 
morbidity and mortality, especially when the condition is of early onset. 
Globally, 76 000 women and 500 000 babies die each year from this disorder. 
Furthermore, women in low‐resource countries are at a higher risk of developing 
PE compared with those in high‐resource countries. Although a complete 
understanding of the pathogenesis of PE remains unclear, the current theory 
suggests a two‐stage process. The first stage is caused by shallow invasion of 
the trophoblast, resulting in inadequate remodeling of the spiral arteries. This 
is presumed to lead to the second stage, which involves the maternal response to 
endothelial dysfunction and imbalance between angiogenic and antiangiogenic 
factors, resulting in the clinical features of the disorder. Accurate prediction 
and uniform prevention continue to elude us. The quest to effectively predict PE 
in the first trimester of pregnancy is fueled by the desire to identify women 
who are at high risk of developing PE, so that necessary measures can be 
initiated early enough to improve placentation and thus prevent or at least 
reduce the frequency of its occurrence. Furthermore, identification of an “at 
risk” group will allow tailored prenatal surveillance to anticipate and 
recognize the onset of the clinical syndrome and manage it promptly. PE has been 
previously defined as the onset of hypertension accompanied by significant 
proteinuria after 20 weeks of gestation. Recently, the definition of PE has been 
broadened. Now the internationally agreed definition of PE is the one proposed 
by the International Society for the Study of Hypertension in Pregnancy (ISSHP). 
According to the ISSHP, PE is defined as systolic blood pressure at ≥140 mm Hg 
and/or diastolic blood pressure at ≥90 mm Hg on at least two occasions measured 
4 hours apart in previously normotensive women and is accompanied by one or more 
of the following new‐onset conditions at or after 20 weeks of gestation: 
1.Proteinuria (i.e. ≥30 mg/mol protein:creatinine ratio; ≥300 mg/24 hour; or ≥2 
+ dipstick); 2.Evidence of other maternal organ dysfunction, including: acute 
kidney injury (creatinine ≥90 μmol/L; 1 mg/dL); liver involvement (elevated 
transaminases, e.g. alanine aminotransferase or aspartate aminotransferase >40 
IU/L) with or without right upper quadrant or epigastric abdominal pain; 
neurological complications (e.g. eclampsia, altered mental status, blindness, 
stroke, clonus, severe headaches, and persistent visual scotomata); or 
hematological complications (thrombocytopenia–platelet count <150 000/μL, 
disseminated intravascular coagulation, hemolysis); or 3.Uteroplacental 
dysfunction (such as fetal growth restriction, abnormal umbilical artery Doppler 
waveform analysis, or stillbirth). It is well established that a number of 
maternal risk factors are associated with the development of PE: advanced 
maternal age; nulliparity; previous history of PE; short and long interpregnancy 
interval; use of assisted reproductive technologies; family history of PE; 
obesity; Afro‐Caribbean and South Asian racial origin; co‐morbid medical 
conditions including hyperglycemia in pregnancy; pre‐existing chronic 
hypertension; renal disease; and autoimmune diseases, such as systemic lupus 
erythematosus and antiphospholipid syndrome. These risk factors have been 
described by various professional organizations for the identification of women 
at risk of PE; however, this approach to screening is inadequate for effective 
prediction of PE. PE can be subclassified into: 1.Early‐onset PE (with delivery 
at <34+0 weeks of gestation); 2.Preterm PE (with delivery at <37+0 weeks of 
gestation); 3.Late‐onset PE (with delivery at ≥34+0 weeks of gestation); 4.Term 
PE (with delivery at ≥37+0 weeks of gestation). These subclassifications are not 
mutually exclusive. Early‐onset PE is associated with a much higher risk of 
short‐ and long‐term maternal and perinatal morbidity and mortality. 
Obstetricians managing women with preterm PE are faced with the challenge of 
balancing the need to achieve fetal maturation in utero with the risks to the 
mother and fetus of continuing the pregnancy longer. These risks include 
progression to eclampsia, development of placental abruption and HELLP 
(hemolysis, elevated liver enzyme, low platelet) syndrome. On the other hand, 
preterm delivery is associated with higher infant mortality rates and increased 
morbidity resulting from small for gestational age (SGA), thrombocytopenia, 
bronchopulmonary dysplasia, cerebral palsy, and an increased risk of various 
chronic diseases in adult life, particularly type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular 
disease, and obesity. Women who have experienced PE may also face additional 
health problems in later life, as the condition is associated with an increased 
risk of death from future cardiovascular disease, hypertension, stroke, renal 
impairment, metabolic syndrome, and diabetes. The life expectancy of women who 
developed preterm PE is reduced on average by 10 years. There is also 
significant impact on the infants in the long term, such as increased risks of 
insulin resistance, diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, and hypertension 
in infants born to pre‐eclamptic women. The International Federation of 
Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) brought together international experts to 
discuss and evaluate current knowledge on PE and develop a document to frame the 
issues and suggest key actions to address the health burden posed by PE. FIGO's 
objectives, as outlined in this document, are: (1) To raise awareness of the 
links between PE and poor maternal and perinatal outcomes, as well as to the 
future health risks to mother and offspring, and demand a clearly defined global 
health agenda to tackle this issue; and (2) To create a consensus document that 
provides guidance for the first‐trimester screening and prevention of preterm 
PE, and to disseminate and encourage its use. Based on high‐quality evidence, 
the document outlines current global standards for the first‐trimester screening 
and prevention of preterm PE, which is in line with FIGO good clinical practice 
advice on first trimester screening and prevention of pre‐eclampsia in singleton 
pregnancy.1 It provides both the best and the most pragmatic recommendations 
according to the level of acceptability, feasibility, and ease of implementation 
that have the potential to produce the most significant impact in different 
resource settings. Suggestions are provided for a variety of different regional 
and resource settings based on their financial, human, and infrastructure 
resources, as well as for research priorities to bridge the current knowledge 
and evidence gap. To deal with the issue of PE, FIGO recommends the following: 
Public health focus: There should be greater international attention given to PE 
and to the links between maternal health and noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) on 
the Sustainable Developmental Goals agenda. Public health measures to increase 
awareness, access, affordability, and acceptance of preconception counselling, 
and prenatal and postnatal services for women of reproductive age should be 
prioritized. Greater efforts are required to raise awareness of the benefits of 
early prenatal visits targeted at reproductive‐aged women, particularly in 
low‐resource countries. Universal screening: All pregnant women should be 
screened for preterm PE during early pregnancy by the first‐trimester combined 
test with maternal risk factors and biomarkers as a one‐step procedure. The risk 
calculator is available free of charge at 
https://fetalmedicine.org/research/assess/preeclampsia. FIGO encourages all 
countries and its member associations to adopt and promote strategies to ensure 
this. The best combined test is one that includes maternal risk factors, 
measurements of mean arterial pressure (MAP), serum placental growth factor 
(PLGF), and uterine artery pulsatility index (UTPI). Where it is not possible to 
measure PLGF and/or UTPI, the baseline screening test should be a combination of 
maternal risk factors with MAP, and not maternal risk factors alone. If maternal 
serum pregnancy‐associated plasma protein A (PAPP‐A) is measured for routine 
first‐trimester screening for fetal aneuploidies, the result can be included for 
PE risk assessment. Variations to the full combined test would lead to a 
reduction in the performance screening. A woman is considered high risk when the 
risk is 1 in 100 or more based on the first‐trimester combined test with 
maternal risk factors, MAP, PLGF, and UTPI. Contingent screening: Where 
resources are limited, routine screening for preterm PE by maternal factors and 
MAP in all pregnancies and reserving measurements of PLGF and UTPI for a 
subgroup of the population (selected on the basis of the risk derived from 
screening by maternal factors and MAP) can be considered. Prophylactic measures: 
Following first‐trimester screening for preterm PE, women identified at high 
risk should receive aspirin prophylaxis commencing at 11–14+6 weeks of gestation 
at a dose of ~150 mg to be taken every night until 36 weeks of gestation, when 
delivery occurs, or when PE is diagnosed. Low‐dose aspirin should not be 
prescribed to all pregnant women. In women with low calcium intake (<800 mg/d), 
either calcium replacement (≤1 g elemental calcium/d) or calcium supplementation 
(1.5–2 g elemental calcium/d) may reduce the burden of both early‐ and 
late‐onset PE.

DOI: 10.1002/ijgo.12802
PMCID: PMC6944283
PMID: 31111484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: The authors have no conflicts of 
interest to declare.


82. J Diabetes Investig. 2020 Jan;11(1):52-54. doi: 10.1111/jdi.13077. Epub 2019
Jun  13.

Causes of death and estimated life expectancy among people with diabetes: A 
retrospective cohort study in a diabetes clinic.

Goto A(1), Takao T(2), Yoshida Y(2), Kawazu S(2), Iwamoto Y(2), Terauchi Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology and Prevention Group, Center for Public Health Sciences, 
National Cancer Center, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Division of Diabetes and Metabolism, Institute for Adult Diseases, Asahi Life 
Foundation, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Graduate School of Medicine, 
Yokohama City University, Yokohama, Japan.

We sought to estimate the exact causes of death, mortality rate and life 
expectancy of diabetes patients by analyzing death records in a diabetes 
specialist clinic in Japan. Of the 6,140 participants included in our analysis, 
the average age was 58.1 years and 77% were men. A total of 261 deaths were 
recorded during the total follow-up period of 24,079 total person-years. The 
leading causes of death were cancer, heart diseases and cerebrovascular 
diseases. Using a life table prepared from the mortality rates estimated with 
the exponential distribution model, a life expectancy at 40 years was 39.2 years 
(95% confidence interval 37.9-40.2 years) for men and 43.6 years (95% confidence 
interval 41.8-45.3 years) for women. Although the present results must be 
interpreted with caution, compared with populations with diabetes surveyed 
during similar periods by the Japan Diabetes Society, our diabetes patients had 
similar ranking of the causes of death.

© 2019 The Authors. Journal of Diabetes Investigation published by Asian 
Association for the Study of Diabetes (AASD) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jdi.13077
PMCID: PMC6944819
PMID: 31111637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Epidemiol Prev. 2019 Jan-Feb;43(1):66-70. doi: 10.19191/EP19.1.P66.022.

[The health determinants in young children: testing a new surveillance system in 
Italy].

[Article in Italian]

Pizzi E(1), Spinelli A(2), Battilomo S(3), Azzarito C(4), Balducci MT(5), 
Bettinelli ME(6), Campostrini S(7), Germinario C(5), Mazzarella G(8), Mignuoli 
AD(4), Morbidoni M(9), Porchia S(7), Simeoni L(10), Speri L(10); Gruppo 
sorveglianza bambini 0-2 anni.

Collaborators: Spinelli A(11), Bucciarelli M(11), Buoncristiano M(11), Lauria 
L(11), Nardone P(11), Pizzi E(11), Battilomo S(12), Privitera MG(12), Brancati 
G(13), Mignuoli AD(13), Azzarito C(13), Raffa R(14), Napoli T(14), Cimminelli 
L(15), Vitelli A(15), Mazzarella G(16), Panico M(17), Ragone G(17), D'Anna 
A(17), Nardacci A(17), Benedetti E(18), Morbidoni M(19), Ambrogiani E(19), Guidi 
A(19), Cimini D(20), Marcolini P(20), Pasqualini F(20), Rossini R(20), 
Bettinelli ME(21), Zappi W(21), Lacaita G(21), Valentini M(21), Germinario 
C(22), Balducci MT(22), Pedote PD(23), Pesare A(24), Caputi G(24), Speri L(25), 
Simeoni L(25), Gottardello L(26), Campi D(27), Campostrini S(28), Porchia S(28).

Author information:
(1)Centro nazionale per la prevenzione delle malattie e la Promozione della 
salute, Istituto superiore di sanità, Roma; enrica.pizzi@iss.it.
(2)Centro nazionale per la prevenzione delle malattie e la Promozione della 
salute, Istituto superiore di sanità, Roma.
(3)Direzione generale della prevenzione sanitaria, Ministero della salute, Roma.
(4)Dipartimento regionale tutela salute, Regione Calabria, Catanzaro.
(5)Osservatorio epidemiologico, Regione Puglia, Bari.
(6)Dipartimento sociosanitario di base cure primarie, ATS Città Metropolitana di 
Milano.
(7)Dipartimento di economia, Università Ca' Foscari, Venezia.
(8)Direzione generale per la tutela della salute e coordinamento del Sistema 
sanitario regionale, Regione Campania, Napoli.
(9)Unità operativa complessa ambiente e salute, ASUR Area Vasta 2, Ancona.
(10)Dipartimento di prevenzione, AULSS 9 Scaligera, Verona.
(11)Gruppo di coordinamento nazionale, Centro nazionale di epidemiologia, 
sorveglianza e promozione della salute (CNESPS), Istituto superiore di sanità.
(12)Ministero della salute.
(13)Regione Calabria.
(14)ASP Catanzaro.
(15)ASP Cosenza.
(16)Regione Campania.
(17)ASL Salerno.
(18)Regione Marche.
(19)Osservatorio epidemiologico, ASUR Area Vasta 2, Ancona.
(20)ASUR Area Vasta 2, Ancona.
(21)ASL Milano.
(22)Regione Puglia.
(23)ASL Brindisi.
(24)ASL Taranto.
(25)Regione Veneto.
(26)ULSS 16 Padova.
(27)ULSS 13 Venezia.
(28)Università Ca' Foscari, Venezia.

In recent years, the scientific community has stressed the need to invest in the 
first 1,000 days of life - the time spanning between conception and the 2nd 
birthday - because it is during this period that the foundations of health are 
laid and whose effects will be present throughout the life and may influence the 
next generation. Taking this into account, in 2013 the National Centre for 
Disease Prevention and Control (CCM) of the Italian Ministry of Health promoted 
and financed a project to test a surveillance system of the main determinants of 
health concerning the child between the conception period and the 2nd years of 
life which are included in the National Programme "GenitoriPiù": folic acid 
before and during pregnancy, abstention from tobacco and alcohol during 
pregnancy and lactation, breastfeeding, infant sleep position, vaccination 
attitude, and early reading. The Project, started in January 2014 and ended in 
August 2016, has piloted the design, testing, and evaluation of the surveillance 
system with the view to national extension and the repeatability over time. The 
surveillance system has been designed to collect data through a questionnaire 
compiled by mothers in vaccination centres, in order to produce indicators which 
will enable territorial and intertemporal comparisons to be made. The project 
has shown the feasibility of this system, identifying favourable conditions and 
possible difficulties, and its ability to collect important information on 
children's health.

DOI: 10.19191/EP19.1.P66.022
PMID: 31111715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2020 Aug 13;75(7):e105-e112. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbz046.

Racial and Educational Disparities in Dementia and Dementia-Free Life 
Expectancy.

Farina MP(1), Hayward MD(1), Kim JK(2), Crimmins EM(2).

Author information:
(1)Sociology Department and Population Research Center, University of Texas at 
Austin.
(2)Leonard Davis School of Gerontology, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles.

OBJECTIVES: We estimate life expectancy with and without dementia for Americans 
65 years and older by education and race to examine how these stratification 
systems combine to shape disparities in later-life cognitive health.
METHOD: Based on the Health and Retirement Study (2000-2014), we use a 
multivariate, incidence-based life table approach to estimate life expectancy by 
cognitive health status for race-education groups. The models also simulate 
group differences in the prevalence of dementia implied by these rates.
RESULTS: The life table results document notable race-education differences in 
dementia and dementia-free life expectancy, as well as stark differences in 
implied dementia prevalence. At each education level, blacks can expect to live 
more years with dementia and they have significantly higher rates of dementia 
prevalence. This distribution of disparities in the older population is anchored 
by 2 groups-blacks without a high school diploma and whites with some college or 
more.
DISCUSSION: Dementia experience and dementia burden differ dramatically along 
race-education lines. Race and education combine to exaggerate disparities and 
they both have enduring effects. Future research should explicitly consider how 
race and education combine to influence dementia in the older American 
population.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbz046
PMCID: PMC7530490
PMID: 31111926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Am J Med Genet C Semin Med Genet. 2019 Jun;181(2):166-169. doi: 
10.1002/ajmg.c.31702. Epub 2019 May 21.

Medical genetics and genomic medicine in Japan.

Suzuki H(1), Watanabe T(1), Uehara T(1), Kosaki K(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Genetics, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.

Since 1961, all Japanese citizens have belonged to one of the available medical 
care insurance systems. This "universal care" system has contributed to the 
maintenance of health: the life expectancy at birth was 84 years in 2016, and 
the infant mortality rate (the number of infants dying before reaching 1 year of 
age) was 2.0 per 1,000 live births, which is one of the lowest rates in the 
world. The Japanese government initiated the National Program on Rare and 
Intractable Diseases in 1972. This program has promoted research and expanded 
support for patients with rare and intractable diseases. Registered patients are 
eligible for a subsidy scheme that helps to cover medical care costs. Among the 
331 diseases that are currently included in this program, more than half of the 
diseases are Mendelian disorders. The National Program on Rare and Intractable 
Diseases has fostered research in medical genetics in Japan and many causative 
genes for Mendelian diseases have been identified by Japanese geneticists. 
Recently, the Japanese government has determined to support several genomic 
medicine initiatives including the undiagnosed disease program (Initiative on 
Rare and Undiagnosed Diseases) and pathogenic variant databases.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.c.31702
PMID: 31111991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. J Urol. 2019 Nov;202(5):936-943. doi: 10.1097/JU.0000000000000346. Epub 2019
Oct  9.

Personalized Risks of Over Diagnosis for Screen Detected Prostate Cancer 
Incorporating Patient Comorbidities: Estimation and Communication.

Gulati R(1), Psutka SP(2), Etzioni R(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Public Health Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 
Seattle, Washington.
(2)Department of Urology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2019 Nov;202(5):942-943.
    J Urol. 2020 Apr;203(4):841-842.

PURPOSE: Shared patient-physician decision making regarding the treatment of 
prostate cancer detected by prostate specific antigen screening involves a 
complex calculus weighing cancer risk and patient life expectancy. We sought to 
quantify these competing risks using the probability that the cancer was over 
diagnosed, ie would not have been clinically diagnosed (diagnosed without 
screening) during the remaining lifetime of the patient.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using an established model of prostate cancer screening 
and clinical diagnosis we simulated screen detected cases and determined whether 
a modeled clinical diagnosis would occur before noncancer death. Time of 
noncancer death was based on comorbidity adjusted population lifetables. 
Logistic regression models were fitted to the simulated data and used to 
estimate over diagnosis probabilities given patient age, prostate specific 
antigen level, Gleason sum and comorbidity category. An online calculator was 
developed to communicate over diagnosis estimates. Face validity and ease of use 
were assessed by surveying 32 clinical experts.
RESULTS: Estimated probabilities of over diagnosis ranged from 4% to 78% across 
clinicopathological variables and comorbidity status. When ignoring comorbidity, 
the estimated probability of over diagnosis in a 70-year-old man with prostate 
specific antigen 9.4 ng/ml and Gleason 6 was 34%. With severe comorbidities the 
estimate increased to 51%. Such a personalization may help inform the choice 
between active surveillance and definitive treatment. Based on responses from 20 
of 32 experts we modified the explanation of over diagnosis for the online 
calculator and the input method for comorbid conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: The probability of over diagnosis is strongly influenced by 
comorbidity status in addition to age. Personalized estimates incorporating 
comorbidity may contribute to shared decision making between patients and 
providers regarding personalized treatment selection.

DOI: 10.1097/JU.0000000000000346
PMCID: PMC6868293
PMID: 31112106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None.


87. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2019 May;68(4):1-66.

United States Life Tables, 2016.

Arias E, Xu J, Kochanek KD.

Objectives-This report presents complete period life tables for the United 
States by race, Hispanic origin, and sex, based on age-specific death rates in 
2016. Methods-Data used to prepare the 2016 life tables are 2016 final mortality 
statistics; July 1, 2016 population estimates based on the 2010 decennial 
census; and 2016 Medicare data for persons aged 66-99. The methodology used to 
estimate the life tables for the Hispanic population remains unchanged from that 
developed for the publication of life tables by Hispanic origin for data year 
2006. The methodology used to estimate the 2016 life tables for all other groups 
was first implemented with data year 2008. Results-In 2016, the overall 
expectation of life at birth was 78.7 years, unchanged from 2015. Between 2015 
and 2016, life expectancy at birth decreased by 0.1 year for males (76.3 to 
76.2) and did not change for females (81.1). Life expectancy at birth did not 
change for the white population (78.9) between 2015 and 2016. Life expectancy at 
birth decreased by 0.2 year for the black population (75.5 to 75.3) and for the 
non-Hispanic black population (75.1 to 74.9). Life expectancy at birth decreased 
by 0.1 year for the non-Hispanic white population (78.7 to 78.6) and for the 
Hispanic population (81.9 to 81.8).

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 31112121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Circ Genom Precis Med. 2019 May;12(5):e002436. doi:
10.1161/CIRCGEN.118.002436.

Mortality Risk Associated With Truncating Founder Mutations in Titin.

Jansen M(1), Baas AF(1), van Spaendonck-Zwarts KY(2), Ummels AS(1), van den 
Wijngaard A(3), Jongbloed JDH(4), van Slegtenhorst MA(5), Lekanne Deprez RH(2), 
Wessels MW(5), Michels M(6), Houweling AC(2), Hoorntje ET(4), Helderman-van den 
Enden PJTM(3), Barge-Schaapveld DQCM(7), Peter van Tintelen J(4)(8), van den 
Berg MP(9), Wilde AAM(10), Ploos van Amstel HK(1), Hennekam EAM(1), Asselbergs 
FW(11)(8)(12), Sijbrands EJG(13), Dooijes D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics (M.J., A.F.B., A.S.U., H.K.P.v.A., E.A.M.H., D.D.), 
University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht University, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Clinical Genetics (K.Y.v.S.-Z., R.H.L.D., A.C.H.), Amsterdam 
University Medical Center, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Clinical Genetics, Maastricht University Medical Center, the 
Netherlands (A.v.d.W., P.J.T.M.H.-v.d.E.).
(4)Department of Genetics (J.D.H.J., E.T.H., J.P.v.T.), University Medical 
Centre Groningen, University of Groningen, the Netherlands.
(5)Department of Clinical Genetics (M.A.v.S., M.W.W.), Erasmus Medical Centre, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(6)Department of Cardiology (M.M.), Erasmus Medical Centre, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(7)Department of Clinical Genetics, Leiden University Medical Centre, the 
Netherlands (D.Q.C.M.B.-S.).
(8)Durrer Center for Cardiovascular Research, Netherlands Heart Institute, 
Utrecht, the Netherlands (J.P.v.T., F.W.A.).
(9)Department of Cardiology (M.P.v.d.B.), University Medical Centre Groningen, 
University of Groningen, the Netherlands.
(10)Department of Cardiology (A.A.M.W.), Amsterdam University Medical Center, 
the Netherlands.
(11)Division of Heart and Lungs, Department of Cardiology (F.W.A.), University 
Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht University, the Netherlands.
(12)Institute of Cardiovascular Science (F.W.A.) and Health Data Research UK, 
Institute of Health Informatics (F.W.A.), University College London, United 
Kingdom.
(13)Department of Internal Medicine (E.J.G.S.), Erasmus Medical Centre, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

Background Truncating titin variants (TTNtv) are the most prevalent genetic 
cause of dilated cardiomyopathy, found in ≤25% of familial cases. Moreover, 
TTNtv associated with dilated cardiomyopathy are estimated to be present in 0.5% 
of the general population. The prognosis of asymptomatic carriers of TTNtv is 
poorly understood because TTNtv are associated with a highly variable phenotype. 
We aim to assess the natural history and clinical relevance of TTNtv by 
analyzing standardized mortality ratios (SMR) in multigenerational pedigrees and 
in close relatives of present-day patients. Methods Haplotype and genealogical 
analyses were performed on 3 recurrent TTNtv. Subsequently, the family tree 
mortality ratio method was used to compare all-cause mortality of subjects at an 
a priori 50% risk of carrying TTNtv to the general Dutch population. SMRs were 
stratified for sex, age, and calendar period. Subgroups were compared with 
Poisson regression. Similarly, SMRs were calculated in parents of 128 
present-day dilated cardiomyopathy probands with TTNtv using the reverse 
parent-offspring method. Results The TTNtv were established as founder mutations 
and traced to 18th century ancestors. In 20 522 person-years, overall mortality 
was not significantly increased (SMR, 1.06; 95% CI, 0.95-1.18; P=0.162). 
However, mortality was significantly increased in subjects living after 1965 
(SMR, 1.27; 95% CI, 1.04-1.53; P=0.009) and aged ≥60 years (SMR, 1.17; 95% CI, 
1.01-1.35; P=0.02). The reverse parent-offspring analysis showed overall excess 
mortality (SMR, 1.26; 95% CI, 1.07-1.48; P=0.003), driven by subjects aged ≥60 
years. Conclusions The natural history of the analyzed TTNtv shows a relatively 
mild disease course with significant excess mortality in elderly patients. With 
increasing life expectancy, TTNtv-associated morbidity and mortality will likely 
become more prevalent.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCGEN.118.002436
PMID: 31112426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2019 Sep;85(9):1994-2001. doi: 10.1111/bcp.13990. Epub
2019  Jul 17.

Optimizing the dose in patients treated with imatinib as first line treatment 
for gastrointestinal stromal tumours: A cost-effectiveness study.

Zuidema S(1), Desar IME(2), van Erp NP(3), Kievit W(1).

Author information:
(1)Radboud Institute for Health Sciences, Radboud UMC, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Radboud UMC, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Radboud Institute for Health Sciences, Radboudumc, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

AIMS: Patients with metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST) are 
treated in first line with the oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor, imatinib, until 
progressive disease. With this fixed dosing regimen, only approximately 40% of 
patients reach adequate plasma levels within the therapeutic index. Therapeutic 
drug monitoring (TDM) is a solution to reach plasma levels within the 
therapeutic index. However, introducing TDM will also increase costs, due to 
prolonged imatinib use and laboratory costs. The aim of this study was to 
evaluate the cost-effectiveness of TDM in patients with metastatic/unresectable 
GIST treated with imatinib as a first line treatment, compared with fixed 
dosing.
METHODS: A survival model was created to simulate progression, mortality and 
treatment costs over a 5-year time horizon, comparing fixed dosing vs TDM-guided 
dosing. The outcomes measured were treatments costs, life-years and 
quality-adjusted life-years.
RESULTS: Total costs over the 5-year time horizon were estimated to be 
€106 994.85 and €150 477.08 for fixed dosing vs TDM-guided dosing, respectively. 
A quality-adjusted life year gain of 0.74 (95% confidence interval 0.66-0.90) 
was estimated with TDM-guided dosing compared to fixed dosing. An average 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of €58 785.70 per quality-adjusted life 
year gained was found, mainly caused by longer use and higher dosages of 
imatinib.
CONCLUSION: Based on the currently available data, this analysis suggests that 
TDM-guided dosing may be a cost-effective intervention for patients with 
metastatic/unresectable GIST treated with imatinib which will be improved when 
imatinib losses its patency.

© 2019 The Authors. British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bcp.13990
PMCID: PMC6710511
PMID: 31112617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. J Food Prot. 1993 Dec;56(12):1051-1053. doi: 10.4315/0362-028X-56.12.1051.

Residual Effect of CO(2) on Bacterial Counts and Surface pH of Channel Catfish.

Silva JL(1), Harkness E(2), White TD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, Mississippi State University, 
Mississippi State, Mississippi 39762.
(2)Department of Food Science, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana 47907.

Channel catfish fillet strips were packaged under aerobic atmosphere (AIR) and 
under 90% CO2, 7.5% N2, and 2.5% O 2modified atmosphere packaging (MAP). Half of 
the samples from the MAP treatment were repacked under aerobic conditions after 
6 d storage (COM). Packaged fish were stored at 0 and 10°C for 20 d. Aerobic 
plate counts reached 8 log CFU/g by the eighth day for AIR packs and by day 20 
for COM packs. Fish in MAP or COM held at 0°C did not reach above 8 log CFU/g 
for 20 d, whereas those at 10°C reached 8 log CFU/g after 4 d. Facultative 
anaerobic counts were similar in trend to aerobic plate counts but lower in 
numbers. Fish pH was not affected by temperature but changed slightly over time 
with treatment. The pH of fish packed in AIR did not change, whereas that of MAP 
treatment decreased from 6.40 to 6.17 by day 12. Holding channel catfish fillet 
strips at 0°C under MAP for 6 d and transferring to aerobic conditions for the 
remainder of storage, will result in 8 d shelf-life extension.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028X-56.12.1051
PMID: 31113111


91. J Food Prot. 1994 Feb;57(2):136-140. doi: 10.4315/0362-028X-57.2.136.

Antifungal Activity of Chitosan and Its Preservative Effect on Low-Sugar Candied 
Kumquat.

Fang SW(1), Li CF(2), Shih DYC(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Food Microbiology, National Laboratories of Foods and Drugs, 
16I-2, Kuen-Yang Street, Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China 115.
(2)Graduate Institute of Food Science and Technology, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China 106.

The inhibitory effect of chitosan, a deacetylated form of chitin, on the growth 
of Aspergillus niger and the aflatoxin production of Aspergillus parasiticus was 
evaluated. The inhibitory effect of chitosan against A. niger was increased as 
the chitosan concentration was increased from 0.1 to 5.0 mg/ml (pH 5.4). At 
concentrations of 4.0 or 5.0 mg/ml, chitosan was less effective than potassium 
sorbate in inhibiting the growth of A. niger . The greatest inhibitory effect of 
chitosan against A. parasiticus was found at 3.0-5.0 mg/ml. In addition, 
chitosan could completely prevent aflatoxin production by A. parasiticus at the 
concentration of 4.0-5.0 mg/ml. Chitosan (2.0 and 5.0 mg/ml) induced 
considerable leakage of UV-absorbing and proteinaceous material of A. niger at 
pH 4.8. Using the response surface methodology, a second order polynomial model 
was derived and used to predict the number of days to obtain visible mold growth 
under various combinations of chitosan concentrations and °Brix in candied 
kumquat. The results showed that there was no significant difference in 
shelf-life extension of candied kumquat at chitosan concentration of 3.5-6.5 
mg/ml. However, °Brix had a significant effect on shelf life. Candied kumquat 
with 6.0 mg/ml chitosan concentration and 61.9° Brix had a predicted mold-free 
shelf life of 65.3 d.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028X-57.2.136
PMID: 31113143


92. EuroIntervention. 2019 Nov 20;15(10):912-918. doi: 10.4244/EIJ-D-19-00468.

Leaflet edge-to-edge treatment versus direct annuloplasty in patients with 
functional mitral regurgitation.

Weber M(1), Öztürk C, Taramasso M, Pozzoli A, Pfister R, Wösten M, Alessandrini 
H, Latib A, Denti P, Kuck KH, Maisano F, Baldus S, Nickenig G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Heart Center Bonn, University Hospital Bonn, Bonn, 
Germany.

AIMS: Interventional mitral repair techniques have evolved as safe and effective 
treatment options for patients with functional mitral regurgitation (FMR) at 
high or prohibitive surgical risk. Of the techniques available, the MitraClip 
device and Cardioband mitral repair system have been used most commonly. 
However, a direct comparison of the two devices, examining their effectiveness 
at reducing MR, reducing symptoms, and extending life expectancy, has not yet 
been performed. For this purpose, we compared the outcome of patients after 
direct annuloplasty by the Cardioband system with patients after edge-to-edge 
therapy with the MitraClip device in a propensity score-matched analysis.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We collected data concerning 123 consecutive patients who 
were treated with the Cardioband device and 455 consecutive patients treated 
with the MitraClip from five experienced European centres. Propensity score 
matching was performed, resulting in two groups with 93 patients each - with no 
significant differences regarding baseline demographic parameters - who 
underwent standardised 2D transthoracic echocardiography with assessment at 
baseline and clinical follow-up at 12 months. The success rate, defined as a 
reduction of MR to grade 2 or lower, was high in both groups (MR ≤2: MitraClip: 
86%, Cardioband: 77%, p=0.18). The Cardioband was better at reducing heart 
failure symptoms (NYHA ≤II: 88%) than the MitraClip (75%) procedure (p=0.046) at 
12-month follow-up. All-cause rehospitalisation and mortality within 12 months 
were lower in Cardioband patients (mortality: OR 0.30, CI: 0.09-0.98, p=0.032; 
rehospitalisation: OR 0.57, CI: 0.28-0.97, p=0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: The MitraClip and the Cardioband procedures effectively reduce MR 
and heart failure symptoms. However, patients undergoing the Cardioband 
procedure showed a more pronounced improvement with regard to functional NYHA 
class, rehospitalisation, and mortality, compared to patients undergoing the 
MitraClip procedure.

DOI: 10.4244/EIJ-D-19-00468
PMID: 31113764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Cancer Manag Res. 2019 Apr 9;11:2849-2870. doi: 10.2147/CMAR.S185319. 
eCollection 2019.

Diabetes mellitus predicts inferior survival in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma: a 
propensity score-matched analysis.

Gao R(1), Liang JH(2), Man TS(2), Wang L(2), Zhu HY(2), Wu W(2), Fan L(2), Li 
JY(2), Yang T(1), Xu W(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Jiangsu Province Hospital, Nanjing 210029, People's Republic of 
China.
(2)Department of Hematology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Jiangsu Province Hospital, Collaborative Innovation Center for 
Cancer Personalized Medicine, Nanjing 210029, People's Republic of China.

Purpose: Diabetes mellitus (DM) is associated with elevated cancer risk and poor 
survival. The objective of this study was to assess the prognostic value of DM 
in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). Methods: Five hundred and fifty-three 
newly diagnosed DLBCL patients whose treatments included rituximab were 
recruited. Propensity score-matched method was performed to balance baseline 
characteristics and eliminate possible bias. Multivariate Cox regression 
analyses screened the prognostic risk factors in relation to progression-free 
survival (PFS) and cancer-specific survival (CSS). Receiver-operator 
characteristic curves and the corresponding areas under the curve (AUC) assessed 
the predictive accuracy of international prognostic index (IPI) together with 
DM. Results: One hundred and nine patients (19.71%) had pre-existing DM. In the 
propensity-matched cohort, DM was associated with unfavorable PFS and CSS in 
rituximab era, and it was an independent risk factor for both inferior PFS and 
CSS, especially in patients with age ≤60 years, IPI 0-2, B symptoms and lactate 
dehydrogenase ≤upper limit of normal. Prediabetics also demonstrated inferior 
prognostic outcomes compared to patients with no diabetic tendency. DM as one 
additional point to IPI had larger AUC compared with IPI alone in CSS prediction 
and could improve the prognostic capacity of IPI. Conclusion: The results 
indicate that preexisting DM is an important risk factor for survival. It could 
help predict life expectancy and build refined prognostication models for DLBCL.

DOI: 10.2147/CMAR.S185319
PMCID: PMC6497839
PMID: 31114337

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


94. JMIR Res Protoc. 2019 May 21;8(5):e13818. doi: 10.2196/13818.

Evaluating the Feasibility and Impact of a Yoga Intervention on Cognition, 
Physical Function, Physical Activity, and Affective Outcomes in People Living 
With HIV: Protocol for a Randomized Pilot Trial.

Quigley A(1), O'Brien KK(2)(3)(4), Brouillette MJ(5), MacKay-Lyons M(1)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiotherapy, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada.
(2)Department of Physical Therapy, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)Institute of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada.
(4)Rehabilitation Sciences Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, 
Canada.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(6)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada.
(7)Nova Scotia Health Authority, Halifax, NS, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Despite lower mortality rates due to combination antiretroviral 
therapy, people living with HIV (PLWH) are grappling with increasingly complex 
health issues, including cognitive impairments in areas such as memory, 
attention, processing speed, and motor function. Yoga has been shown to be an 
effective form of exercise and mindfulness-based stress reduction for many 
clinical populations. However, no randomized trials have evaluated the impact of 
yoga on cognitive and physical function among PLWH.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this pilot randomized trial was to determine the 
feasibility of a yoga intervention to lay the groundwork for a full-scale, 
multisite, community-based trial for PLWH. Specific objectives are to (1) assess 
the feasibility of study protocol and procedures, (2) compare cognition in the 
yoga group with the usual care control group after 12 weeks of the intervention 
in PLWH, and (3) compare the effects of the 12-week yoga intervention versus 
control on balance, walking speed, physical activity, mental health, medication 
adherence, and quality of life among PLWH.
METHODS: We propose a pilot randomized trial with 2 parallel groups (yoga versus 
control). We will recruit 25 PLWH (>35 years) from community and health 
organizations in Halifax, Canada. After baseline assessment with blinded 
assessors, participants will be randomly assigned to the yoga or control group, 
using a random computer generator. Participants in the yoga group will engage in 
supervised 60-min group-based yoga sessions 3 times a week for 12 weeks at a 
yoga studio. Participants in the control group will maintain their current 
physical activity levels throughout the study.
RESULTS: As per the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials extension for 
pilot studies, means of all outcomes, mean change, and 95% CIs will be 
calculated for each group separately. Two-tailed independent t tests and Fisher 
exact tests will be used to compare groups at baseline. We will analyze 
quantitative postintervention questionnaire responses using Chi-square tests, 
and open-ended responses will be analyzed thematically. Intention-to-treat and 
per-protocol analyses will be used to analyze secondary variables. Changes in 
outcome variables will be examined between groups and within groups. Effect 
sizes will be reported for each outcome. A priori adherence and satisfaction 
criteria will be met if participants attend >70% of the yoga sessions and if 
>70% of the participants are satisfied with the intervention as determined by a 
postparticipation questionnaire. Study enrollment began in January 2018, with 
results expected for October 2019.
CONCLUSIONS: This pilot randomized trial will be the first to investigate the 
feasibility and effect of a yoga intervention on cognitive and physical outcomes 
among PLWH. This work will inform the feasibility of further investigations in 
terms of capacity building, participant recruitment and retention, and 
assessment and intervention protocols.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03071562; 
https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03071562 (Archived by WebCite 
at http://www.webcitation.org/785sfhWkw).
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/13818.

©Adria Quigley, Kelly K O'Brien, Marie-Josée Brouillette, Marilyn MacKay-Lyons. 
Originally published in JMIR Research Protocols 
(http://www.researchprotocols.org), 21.05.2019.

DOI: 10.2196/13818
PMCID: PMC6547772
PMID: 31115343

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


95. Int J Public Health. 2019 Jun;64(5):773-783. doi: 10.1007/s00038-019-01251-y.
 Epub 2019 May 21.

Spatial variations and macroeconomic determinants of life expectancy and 
mortality rate in China: a county-level study based on spatial analysis models.

Wang S(1), Ren Z(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Geographic Sciences and Natural Resources Research, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, A11 Datun Road, Anwai, Beijing, 100101, China. 
wangshaobin@igsnrr.ac.cn.
(2)Institute of Geographic Sciences and Natural Resources Research, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, A11 Datun Road, Anwai, Beijing, 100101, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Resources and Environmental Information System, 
Institute of Geographic Science and Natural Resource Research, Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, Beijing, 100101, China.

OBJECTIVES: The life expectancy and mortality rate always exhibit remarkable 
spatial variations. Their spatial distribution patterns and economic 
determinants in China were explored.
METHODS: Four indexes including lifespan expectancy at birth (LEB), infant 
mortality rate (IMR), under-5 mortality rate (U5MR) and crude mortality rate 
(CMR) at county level in China were calculated. The spatial distribution 
patterns of these indexes were illustrated. Meanwhile, spatial regressive model 
was applied to explore the relations between major macroeconomic determinants 
and these indexes.
RESULTS: Spatial dependence of these four indexes in China was identified, and 
the positive spatial autocorrelation indicated a clustering feature rather than 
stochastic distribution. Additionally, local Moran's I statistics revealed 
opposite local spatial clusters of LEB and IMR, U5MR in China, that LEB showed 
that high value clusters in the southwest and low value clusters in the eastern 
part and northern Xinjiang, and IMR/U5MR exhibited that low value clusters in 
the east and high value clusters in the west. The spatial regression revealed 
that income per capita influenced positively on LEB and CMR, and GDP per capita 
was associated positively with IMR and U5MR.
CONCLUSIONS: Geographical factors should be highly considered, and the L-L LEB 
or H-H IMR/U5MR clustered areas need to be integrated as a whole to formulate 
public health and economic development plans.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-019-01251-y
PMID: 31115590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Br J Surg. 2019 Jul;106(8):1043-1054. doi: 10.1002/bjs.11169. Epub 2019 May
22.

Health gains, costs and cost-effectiveness of a population-based screening 
programme for abdominal aortic aneurysms.

Nair N(1), Kvizhinadze G(1), Jones GT(2), Rush R(3), Khashram M(4), Roake J(5), 
Blakely A(1).

Author information:
(1)Burden of Disease Epidemiology, Equity and Cost-Effectiveness Programme 
(BODE3), Department of Public Health, University of Otago, Wellington, New 
Zealand.
(2)Vascular Research Group, Department of Surgical Sciences, Dunedin School of 
Medicine, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.
(3)Waitemata District Health Board, University of Auckland, Auckland, New 
Zealand.
(4)Department of Surgery, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(5)Department of Surgery, University of Otago, Christchurch, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) rupture carries a high fatality 
rate. AAAs can be detected before rupture by abdominal ultrasound imaging, 
allowing elective repair. Population-based screening for AAA in older men 
reduces AAA-related mortality by about 40 per cent. The UK began an AAA 
screening programme offering one-off scans to men aged 65 years in 2009. Sweden 
has a similar programme. Currently, there is no AAA screening programme in New 
Zealand. This cost-utility analysis aimed to assess the cost-effectiveness of a 
UK-style screening programme in the New Zealand setting.
METHODS: The analysis compared a formal AAA screening programme (one-off 
abdominal ultrasound imaging for about 20 000 men aged 65 years in 2011) with no 
systematic screening. A Markov macrosimulation model was adapted to estimate the 
health gains (in quality-adjusted life-years, QALYs), health system costs and 
cost-effectiveness in New Zealand. A health system perspective and lifetime 
horizon was adopted.
RESULTS: With New Zealand-specific inputs, the adapted model produced an 
estimate of about NZ $15 300 (€7746) per QALY gained, with a 95 per cent 
uncertainty interval (UI) of NZ $8700 to 31 000 (€4405 to 15 694) per QALY 
gained. Health gains were estimated at 117 (95 per cent UI 53 to 212) QALYs. 
Health system costs were NZ $1·68 million (€850 535), with a 95 per cent UI of 
NZ $820 200 to 3·24 million (€415 243 to €1·65 million).
CONCLUSION: Using New Zealand's gross domestic product per capita (about 
NZ $45 000 or €22 100) as a cost-effectiveness threshold, a UK-style AAA 
screening programme would be cost-effective in New Zealand.

© 2019 BJS Society Ltd Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.11169
PMID: 31115915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2020 Apr;20(2):169-175. doi: 
10.1080/14737167.2019.1615886. Epub 2019 May 22.

Comparison of the expected rewards between probabilistic and deterministic 
analyses in a Markov model.

Xie X(1), Yeung MW(1), Wang Z(2), Wang M(1), Gajic-Veljanoski O(1), Ng V(1), 
Volodin A(3).

Author information:
(1)Evidence Development and Standards, Health Quality Ontario, Toronto, Canada.
(2)Carrefour de l'innovation et de l'évaluation en santé, Centre de recherche du 
Centre hospitalier de l'Universite de Montreal, Montreal, Canada.
(3)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Regina, Regina, 
Canada.

Objectives: In Markov models that evaluate the cost-effectiveness of health-care 
technologies, it is generally recommended to use probabilistic analysis instead 
of deterministic analysis. We sought to compare the performance of probabilistic 
and deterministic analysis in estimating the expected rewards in a Markov 
model.Methods: We applied Jensen's inequality to compare the expected Markov 
rewards between probabilistic and deterministic analysis and conducted a 
simulation study to compare the bias and accuracy between the two 
approaches.Results: We provided mathematical justification why probabilistic 
analysis is associated with greater Markov rewards (life-years and 
quality-adjusted life-years) compared with deterministic analysis. In our 
simulations, probabilistic analyses tended to generate greater life-years, bias, 
and mean square error for the estimated rewards compared with deterministic 
analyses. When the expected values of transition probabilities were the same, 
weaker evidence derived from smaller sample sizes resulted in larger Markov 
rewards compared with stronger evidence derived from larger sample sizes. When 
longer time horizons were applied in cases of weak evidence, there was a 
substantial increase in bias where the rewards in both probabilistic and 
deterministic analysis were overestimated.Conclusion: Authors should be aware 
that probabilistic analysis may lead to increased bias when the evidence is 
weak.

DOI: 10.1080/14737167.2019.1615886
PMID: 31116609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. J Am Chem Soc. 2019 Jun 5;141(22):8694-8697. doi: 10.1021/jacs.9b02512. Epub 
2019 May 23.

Jump-seq: Genome-Wide Capture and Amplification of 5-Hydroxymethylcytosine 
Sites.

Hu L(1)(2), Liu Y(3)(4), Han S(5)(4), Yang L(6), Cui X(1)(2), Gao Y(6), Dai 
Q(1)(2), Lu X(1)(2), Kou X(6), Zhao Y(6), Sheng W(7), Gao S(6), He X(4), He 
C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, 
and Institute for Biophysical Dynamics , The University of Chicago , Chicago , 
Illinois 60637 , United States.
(2)Howard Hughes Medical Institute , The University of Chicago , Chicago , 
Illinois 60637 , United States.
(3)Agricultural Genomes Institute at Shenzhen , Chinese Academy of Agricultural 
Sciences , Shenzhen , Guangdong 518120 , China.
(4)Department of Human Genetics , The University of Chicago , Chicago , Illinois 
60637 , United States.
(5)Joseph J. Zilber School of Public Health , University of Wisconsin , 
Milwaukee , Wisconsin 53205 , United States.
(6)Clinical and Translational Research Center of Shanghai First Maternity and 
Infant Hospital, Shanghai Key Laboratory of Signaling and Disease Research, 
School of Life Sciences and Technology , Tongji University , Shanghai 200092 , 
China.
(7)Department of Mathematics, Statistics and Computer Science , Marquette 
University , Milwaukee , Wisconsin 53233 , United States.

5-Hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) arises from the oxidation of 5-methylcytosine 
(5mC) by Fe2+ and 2-oxoglutarate-dependent 10-11 translocation (TET) family 
proteins. Substantial levels of 5hmC accumulate in many mammalian tissues, 
especially in neurons and embryonic stem cells, suggesting a potential active 
role for 5hmC in epigenetic regulation beyond being simply an intermediate of 
active DNA demethylation. 5mC and 5hmC undergo dynamic changes during 
embryogenesis, neurogenesis, hematopoietic development, and oncogenesis. While 
methods have been developed to map 5hmC, more efficient approaches to detect 
5hmC at base resolution are still highly desirable. Herein, we present a new 
method, Jump-seq, to capture and amplify 5hmC in genomic DNA. The principle of 
this method is to label 5hmC by the 6- N3-glucose moiety and connect a hairpin 
DNA oligonucleotide carrying an alkyne group to the azide-modified 5hmC via 
Huisgen cycloaddition (click) chemistry. Primer extension starts from the 
hairpin motif to the modified 5hmC site and then continues to "land" on genomic 
DNA. 5hmC sites are inferred from genomic DNA sequences immediately spanning the 
5-prime junction. This technology was validated, and its utility in 5hmC 
identification was confirmed.

DOI: 10.1021/jacs.9b02512
PMCID: PMC7061342
PMID: 31117646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following competing 
financial interest(s): A patent application has been filed for the technology by 
the University of Chicago.


99. Med Decis Making. 2019 May;39(4):437-449. doi: 10.1177/0272989X19844740. Epub
 2019 May 22.

Additive Multicriteria Decision Analysis Models: Misleading Aids for 
Life-Critical Shared Decision Making.

Kujawski E(1), Triantaphyllou E(2), Yanase J(1).

Author information:
(1)Complete Decisions, LLC, Baton Rouge, LA, USA.
(2)Division of Computer Science and Engineering Louisiana State University, 
Baton Rouge, LA, USA.

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 2019 Oct;39(7):721.
    Med Decis Making. 2019 Oct;39(7):722.

Background. There is growing interest in multicriteria decision analysis (MCDA) 
for shared decision making (SDM). A distinguishing feature is that a preferred 
treatment should extend years of life and/or improve health-related quality of 
life (HRQL). Additive MCDA models are inadequate for the task. A plethora of 
MCDA models exist, each claiming that it can correctly solve real-world 
problems. However, most were developed in nonhealth fields and rely on additive 
models. This makes the problem of choosing an MCDA model as an aid for SDM a 
challenging and urgent one. Methods. A published 2017 MCDA of a hypothetical 
prostate cancer patient is used as a case in point of how not to do and how to 
do MCDA for SDM. We critically review it and analyze it using several additive 
linear MCDA models with years of life and HRQL as attributes and the linear 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) model. The following simple reasonableness 
test is presented for applicability of a method as an aid for SDM: Can a 
treatment that causes premature death trump a treatment that causes acceptable 
adverse effects? Results. Additive MCDA models and the linear QALY recommend 
significantly different alternatives. Additive MCDA models fail the proposed 
reasonableness test; the linear QALY model passes. Conclusions. MCDA possesses a 
strong craft element in addition to its technical aspects. MCDA practitioners 
and clinicians need to understand model limitations to choose models appropriate 
to the context. Additive MCDA models are inadequate for life-critical SDM. We 
advocate QALY models with additional research for increased realism as a tool 
for SDM.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X19844740
