
Tan BL(1), Norhaizan ME(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang 43400, Selangor, Malaysia. 
tbeeling87@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang 43400, Selangor, Malaysia. 
nhaizan@upm.edu.my.
(3)Laboratory of Molecular Biomedicine, Institute of Bioscience, Universiti 
Putra Malaysia, Serdang 43400, Selangor, Malaysia. nhaizan@upm.edu.my.
(4)Research Centre of Excellent, Nutrition and Non-Communicable Diseases (NNCD), 
Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang 
43400, Selangor, Malaysia. nhaizan@upm.edu.my.

Despite an increase in life expectancy that indicates positive human 
development, a new challenge is arising. Aging is positively associated with 
biological and cognitive degeneration, for instance cognitive decline, 
psychological impairment, and physical frailty. The elderly population is prone 
to oxidative stress due to the inefficiency of their endogenous antioxidant 
systems. As many studies showed an inverse relationship between carotenoids and 
age-related diseases (ARD) by reducing oxidative stress through interrupting the 
propagation of free radicals, carotenoid has been foreseen as a potential 
intervention for age-associated pathologies. Therefore, the role of carotenoids 
that counteract oxidative stress and promote healthy aging is worthy of further 
discussion. In this review, we discussed the underlying mechanisms of 
carotenoids involved in the prevention of ARD. Collectively, understanding the 
role of carotenoids in ARD would provide insights into a potential intervention 
that may affect the aging process, and subsequently promote healthy longevity.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules24091801
PMCID: PMC6539799
PMID: 31075966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


959. Sensors (Basel). 2019 May 9;19(9):2164. doi: 10.3390/s19092164.

Smartphone Sensors for Health Monitoring and Diagnosis.

Majumder S(1), Deen MJ(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, ON L8S 4L8, Canada. majums3@mcmaster.ca.
(2)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, ON L8S 4L8, Canada. jamal@mail.ece.mcmaster.ca.
(3)School of Biomedical Engineering, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON L8S 4L8, 
Canada. jamal@mail.ece.mcmaster.ca.

Over the past few decades, we have witnessed a dramatic rise in life expectancy 
owing to significant advances in medical science and technology, medicine as 
well as increased awareness about nutrition, education, and environmental and 
personal hygiene. Consequently, the elderly population in many countries are 
expected to rise rapidly in the coming years. A rapidly rising elderly 
demographics is expected to adversely affect the socioeconomic systems of many 
nations in terms of costs associated with their healthcare and wellbeing. In 
addition, diseases related to the cardiovascular system, eye, respiratory 
system, skin and mental health are widespread globally. However, most of these 
diseases can be avoided and/or properly managed through continuous monitoring. 
In order to enable continuous health monitoring as well as to serve growing 
healthcare needs; affordable, non-invasive and easy-to-use healthcare solutions 
are critical. The ever-increasing penetration of smartphones, coupled with 
embedded sensors and modern communication technologies, make it an attractive 
technology for enabling continuous and remote monitoring of an individual's 
health and wellbeing with negligible additional costs. In this paper, we present 
a comprehensive review of the state-of-the-art research and developments in 
smartphone-sensor based healthcare technologies. A discussion on regulatory 
policies for medical devices and their implications in smartphone-based 
healthcare systems is presented. Finally, some future research perspectives and 
concerns regarding smartphone-based healthcare systems are described.

DOI: 10.3390/s19092164
PMCID: PMC6539461
PMID: 31075985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


960. Curr Genet. 2019 Dec;65(6):1287-1295. doi: 10.1007/s00294-019-00980-0. Epub
2019  May 10.

An evolving view of copy number variants.

Lauer S(1), Gresham D(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Systems Genetics, New York University Langone Health, New York, 
NY, USA.
(2)Center for Genomics and System Biology, Department of Biology, New York 
University, New York, NY, USA. dgresham@nyu.edu.

Copy number variants (CNVs) are regions of the genome that vary in integer copy 
number. CNVs, which comprise both amplifications and deletions of DNA sequence, 
have been identified across all domains of life, from bacteria and archaea to 
plants and animals. CNVs are an important source of genetic diversity, and can 
drive rapid adaptive evolution and progression of heritable and somatic human 
diseases, such as cancer. However, despite their evolutionary importance and 
clinical relevance, CNVs remain understudied compared to single-nucleotide 
variants (SNVs). This is a consequence of the inherent difficulties in detecting 
CNVs at low-to-intermediate frequencies in heterogeneous populations of cells. 
Here, we discuss molecular methods used to detect CNVs, the limitations 
associated with using these techniques, and the application of new and emerging 
technologies that present solutions to these challenges. The goal of this short 
review and perspective is to highlight aspects of CNV biology that are 
understudied and define avenues for further research that address specific gaps 
in our knowledge of these complex alleles. We describe our recently developed 
method for CNV detection in which a fluorescent gene functions as a single-cell 
CNV reporter and present key findings from our evolution experiments in 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Using a CNV reporter, we found that CNVs are generated 
at a high rate and undergo selection with predictable dynamics across 
independently evolving replicate populations. Many CNVs appear to be generated 
through DNA replication-based processes that are mediated by the presence of 
short, interrupted, inverted-repeat sequences. Our results have important 
implications for the role of CNVs in evolutionary processes and the molecular 
mechanisms that underlie CNV formation. We discuss the possible extension of our 
method to other applications, including tracking the dynamics of CNVs in models 
of human tumors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00294-019-00980-0
PMID: 31076843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Arch Razi Inst. 2018 Dec;73(4):287-294. Epub 2018 Dec 1.

Production of a Human Recombinant Polyclonal Fab Antivenom against Iranian Viper 
Echis carinatus.

Motedayen MH(1), Nikbakht Brujeni G(2), Rasaee MJ(3), Zare Mirakabadi A(4)(4), 
Khorasani A(5), Eizadi H(5), Ranjbar MM(6), Azimi SM(7), Esmaeilzad M(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunization and Plasma Production, Razi Vaccine and Serum 
Research Institute, Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization 
(AREEO), Karaj, Iran.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Medical Biotechnology, School of Medicine, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Venomous Animals, Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute, 
Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Tehran, 
Iran.
(5)Department of Foot and Mouth Disease, Razi Vaccine and Serum Research 
Institute, Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), 
Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Virology, Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute, 
Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Tehran, 
Iran.
(7)Foot and mouth disease reference laboratory, Razi vaccine &amp; serum 
research institute. Agricultural Research Education and Extension Organization 
(AREEO), Karaj, Iran.
(8)Department of Biotechnology, Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute, 
Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Tehran, 
Iran.

Venomous snakebite is a life-threatening injury in many tropical and subtropical 
areas including Iran. The gold standard treatment option for human envenomation 
is the use of antivenoms. Despite the unique effects of horse-derived antivenoms 
on the treatment of snakebite, they are not fully perfect and need improvements. 
In this study, human recombinant Fab fragment antivenom was produced in 
Rosetta-g bacterium using a gene library constructed in the previous study. The 
prepared Fab was purified in several steps, desalted, and 
lipopolysaccharide-depleted using ammonium sulfate solution and dialysis against 
phosphate buffer and Triton X-114 solution, respectively. Subsequently, the 
product was initially confirmed by the sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel 
electrophoresis and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), respectively. 
Finally, the neutralization potency of the product was investigated in 
laboratory Syrian Mice. The obtained results showed corresponding reduced bands 
to Fab fragment with the molecular weight of about 28 kDa at a concentration of 
3.1 mg/ml. There was a significant difference between the groups in terms of 
ELISA test (P&amp;lt;0.05). The neutralization potency of the product against 
the venom of Echis carinatus (E. carinatus) was about 7 LD50/ml (54.6 
&amp;micro;g/ml) when tested on mice. Based on the results, the Fab fragment 
antivenom had the ability to neutralize the in vivo biological activity of the 
venom of Iranian E. carinatus. However, further studies are recommended to reach 
a suitable concentration of antivenom fragment.

Copyright Â© 2018, Archives of Razi Institute. Published by Kowsar.

PMID: 31077118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Br J Pharmacol. 2019 Nov;176(22):4284-4292. doi: 10.1111/bph.14697. Epub
2019  Aug 9.

Exploring mitochondrial cholesterol signalling for therapeutic intervention in 
neurological conditions.

Desai R(1), Campanella M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Comparative Biomedical Sciences, The Royal Veterinary College, 
University of London, London, UK.
(2)Consortium for Mitochondrial Research (CfMR), University College London, 
London, UK.

The pharmacological targeting of cholesterol levels continues to generate 
interest due to the undoubted success of therapeutic agents, such as statins, in 
extending life expectancy by modifying the prognosis of diseases associated with 
the impairment of lipid metabolism. Advances in our understanding of 
mitochondrial dysfunction in chronic age-related diseases of the brain have 
disclosed an emerging role for mitochondrial cholesterol in their 
pathophysiology, thus delineating an opportunity to provide mechanistic insights 
and explore strategies of intervention. This review draws attention to novel 
signalling mechanisms in conditions linked with impaired metabolism associated 
with impaired handling of cholesterol and its oxidized forms (oxysterols) by 
mitochondria. By emphasizing the role of mitochondrial cholesterol in 
neurological diseases, we here call for novel approaches and new means of 
assessment. LINKED ARTICLES: This article is part of a themed section on 
Mitochondrial Pharmacology: Featured Mechanisms and Approaches for Therapy 
Translation. To view the other articles in this section visit 
http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bph.v176.22/issuetoc.

Â© 2019 The British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bph.14697
PMCID: PMC6887905
PMID: 31077345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no financial competing 
interests with the matter of this publication.


963. Exp Cell Res. 2019 Aug 1;381(1):112-120. doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2019.04.033.
Epub  2019 May 8.

Collagen triple helix repeat containing 1a (Cthrc1a) regulates cell adhesion and 
migration during gastrulation in zebrafish.

Cheng XN(1), Shao M(2), Shi DL(3).

Author information:
(1)(a)Affiliated Hospital of Guangdong Medical University, Zhanjiang, 524001, 
China.
(2)Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Cell and Developmental Biology, 
School of Life Sciences, Shandong University, Qingdao, 266237, China. Electronic 
address: shaoming@sdu.edu.cn.
(3)(a)Affiliated Hospital of Guangdong Medical University, Zhanjiang, 524001, 
China; Sorbonne UniversitÃ©, CNRS UMR7622, IBPS-Developmental Biology Laboratory, 
Paris, 75005, France. Electronic address: de-li.shi@upmc.fr.

Cell adhesion and migration are key cell behaviours during gastrulation in early 
embryos and metastasis in cancers. Cthrc1 is a secreted protein highly conserved 
among vertebrates; it is upregulated in injured and diseased arteries, as well 
as in malignant cancers. There is increasing evidence showing that its 
expression and activity are associated with cancer progression and inflammatory 
diseases. However, the mechanism by which it regulates cell migration, and its 
implication during early development remains unclear. Here we show that 
zebrafish Cthrc1a is expressed in hypoblast cells, and is required for cell 
adhesion and migration during gastrulation. Knockdown of cthrc1a in whole embryo 
inhibits epiboly and convergent extension movements, and reduces the elongation 
of anteroposterior axis. Cell adhesion assay indicates that Cthrc1a is necessary 
for mesendoderm cells to interact with fibronectin-coated substratum, and to 
extend polarised cellular protrusions. Moreover, secreted Cthrc1a proteins 
diffuse efficiently between blastoderm cells and are recruited by neighbouring 
cells in an integrin-dependent manner. Consistently, there exists a functional 
interaction between Cthrc1a and integrin Î²1 in anteroposterior axis elongation. 
These results provide insight into the function of Cthrc1a in the regulation of 
cell adhesion and migration during embryonic axis elongation.

Copyright Â© 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2019.04.033
PMID: 31077712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. J Electromyogr Kinesiol. 2019 Aug;47:19-24. doi:
10.1016/j.jelekin.2019.05.004.  Epub 2019 May 3.

Shear wave elastography investigation of multifidus stiffness in individuals 
with low back pain.

Murillo C(1), Falla D(1), Rushton A(1), Sanderson A(1), Heneghan NR(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre of Precision Rehabilitation for Spinal Pain (CPR Spine), School of 
Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation Sciences, College of Life and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Birmingham, UK.
(2)Centre of Precision Rehabilitation for Spinal Pain (CPR Spine), School of 
Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation Sciences, College of Life and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Birmingham, UK. Electronic address: 
n.heneghan@bham.ac.uk.

The purpose of this study was to investigate differences in passive muscular 
stiffness between the superficial multifidus (SM) and deep multifidus (DM), and 
to compare their passive and active stiffness in individuals with low back pain 
(LBP) and asymptomatic individuals. Fifteen LBP individuals and 15 asymptomatic 
individuals were recruited. Passive stiffness of the SM and DM was measured 
bilaterally using shear wave elastography (SWE) with participants lying prone. 
Active stiffness was measured for the SM during trunk extension, and the 
contraction ratio was calculated. DM displayed higher passive muscular stiffness 
than SM in both the asymptomatic and LBP groups (14.41â¯Â±â¯2.62 and 
15.40â¯Â±â¯2.77â¯kPa respectively; pâ¯<â¯0.001). Individuals with LBP exhibited higher 
passive muscular stiffness of SM (LBP: 10.15â¯Â±â¯4.21, asymptomatic: 
6.84â¯Â±â¯1.69â¯kPa; pâ¯<â¯0.005) and a lower contraction ratio (LBP: 1.54â¯Â±â¯0.47, 
asymptomatic: 2.65â¯Â±â¯1.36â¯kPa; pâ¯<â¯0.003) compared to the asymptomatic group. 
The findings support a differentiation in passive muscular stiffness between SM 
and DM and provide evidence for an alteration in muscular stiffness at rest in 
individuals with LBP. The lower increase of muscular stiffness with contraction 
observed for those with LBP may reflect a deficit in activation of the 
multifidus.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jelekin.2019.05.004
PMID: 31077992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Eur J Cancer. 2019 Jun;114:97-106. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2019.04.009. Epub
2019  May 16.

Multidisciplinary interventions in a specialist Drug Development Unit to improve 
family history documentation and onward referral of patients with advanced 
cancer to cancer genetics services.

Moss CA(1), Cojocaru E(2), Hanwell J(2), Ward S(1), Xu W(2), van Zyl M(2), 
O'Leary L(2), de Bono JS(2), Banerji U(2), Kaye SB(2), Minchom A(2), George 
AJ(3), Lopez J(2), McVeigh TP(4).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Genetics Unit, Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, Fulham Road, 
London, UK.
(2)Drug Development Unit, Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, Sutton, Surrey, 
UK.
(3)Cancer Genetics Unit, Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, Fulham Road, 
London, UK; Gynaecological Oncology Unit, Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, 
Fulham Road, London, UK.
(4)Cancer Genetics Unit, Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, Fulham Road, 
London, UK. Electronic address: terri.mcveigh@icr.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Molecular aberrations in cancer may represent therapeutic targets, 
and, if arising from the germline, may impact further cancer risk management in 
patients and their blood relatives. Annually, 600-700 patients are referred for 
consideration of experimental drug trials in the Drug Development Unit (DDU) in 
our institution. A proportion of patients may merit germline genetic testing 
because of suspicious personal/family history or findings of tumour-based 
testing. We aimed to assess the impact of different multidisciplinary 
interventions on family history taking and referral rates from DDU to Cancer 
Genetics Unit (CGU).
METHODS: Over 42 months, three interventions were undertaken at different 
intervals: (1) embedding a genetics provider in the DDU review clinic, (2) 
'traffic light' system flagging cancers with a heritable componentÂ and (3) 
virtual multidisciplinary meeting (MDM). Comparative analyses between intervals 
were undertaken, including referral rates to CGU, investigations and patient 
outcomes. Family history taking in a sample of 20 patients managed in each 
interval was assessed by a retrospective chart review.
RESULTS: Frequency of family history takingÂ and referral to CGU, increased with 
each intervention, particularly, the virtual MDM (40% vs 85%). Referral rates 
increased over the study period, from 0.1 referral/week (5/year, 0.36% total 
referrals) to 1.2/week (projected 63/year, 3.81%). Forty-four (52%) patients 
referred required germline testing; in three of whom, variants were identified. 
Non-attendance rates were low (6, 7%).
CONCLUSION: Patients in the DDU are unique, with long cancer histories and often 
short estimated life expectancy. Multidisciplinary working between CGU and DDU 
facilitates germline testing of those patients who may otherwise miss the 
opportunity.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2019.04.009
PMID: 31078974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Waste Manag. 2019 Apr 1;88:268-279. doi: 10.1016/j.wasman.2019.03.050. Epub
2019  Mar 28.

Resource and environmental impacts of using second-hand laptop computers: A case 
study of commercial reuse.

AndrÃ© H(1), Ljunggren SÃ¶derman M(2), NordelÃ¶f A(3).

Author information:
(1)Chalmers University of Technology, Division of Environmental Systems 
Analysis, Department of Technology Management and Economics, Vera Sandbergs AllÃ© 
8, 41133 Gothenburg, Sweden. Electronic address: hampus.andre@chalmers.se.
(2)Chalmers University of Technology, Division of Environmental Systems 
Analysis, Department of Technology Management and Economics, Vera Sandbergs AllÃ© 
8, 41133 Gothenburg, Sweden. Electronic address: maria.ljunggren@chalmers.se.
(3)Chalmers University of Technology, Division of Environmental Systems 
Analysis, Department of Technology Management and Economics, Vera Sandbergs AllÃ© 
8, 41133 Gothenburg, Sweden. Electronic address: anders.nordelof@chalmers.se.

The circular economy is proposed to reduce environmental impact, but as yet, 
there is limited empirical evidence of this sort from studying real, commercial 
circular economy business cases. This study investigates the environmental 
impacts of using second-hand laptops, mediated by a commercial reuse operation, 
instead of new ones. The method used is life cycle assessment (LCA) and special 
attention is given to laptops' metal resource use by using several complementary 
life cycle impact assessment methods. The results show that all activities 
required to enable reuse of laptops are negligible, despite the reuse company's 
large geographical scope. Two principal features of reuse reduce environmental 
impacts. Firstly, use extension reduces all impacts considerably since there are 
large embedded impacts in components. Secondly, the reuse company steers 
non-reusable laptops into state-of-the-art recycling. This provides additional 
impact reductions, especially with regards to toxicity and metal resource use. 
The results for metal resource use however diverge between LCIA methods in terms 
of highlighted metals which, in turn, affects the degree of impact reduction. 
LCIA methods that characterise functionally recycled metals as important, result 
in larger impact reduction, since these emphasise the merits of steering flows 
into state-of-the-art recycling. The study thus demonstrates how using 
second-hand laptops, mediated by a commercial reuse operation, compared to new 
ones, in practice, reduces different types of environmental impact through 
synergistic relationships between reuse and recycling. Moreover, it illustrates 
how the choice of LCIA method can influence interpretations of metal resource 
use impacts when applying circular economy measures to information and 
communication technologies (ICT).

Copyright Â© 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wasman.2019.03.050
PMID: 31079639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Mayo Clin Proc. 2019 Jun;94(6):985-994. doi: 10.1016/j.mayocp.2018.10.029.
Epub  2019 May 9.

Comparative Relevance of Physical Fitness and Adiposity on Life Expectancy: A UK 
Biobank Observational Study.

Zaccardi F(1), Davies MJ(2), Khunti K(3), Yates T(4).

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Research Centre, University of Leicester, United Kingdom; University 
Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
frazac@fastwebnet.it.
(2)Diabetes Research Centre, University of Leicester, United Kingdom; University 
Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust, United Kingdom; NIHR Leicester Biomedical 
Research Centre, United Kingdom.
(3)Diabetes Research Centre, University of Leicester, United Kingdom; NIHR 
Collaborations for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care (CLAHRC) East 
Midlands, United Kingdom.
(4)Diabetes Research Centre, University of Leicester, United Kingdom; NIHR 
Leicester Biomedical Research Centre, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    Mayo Clin Proc. 2019 Jun;94(6):942-945.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the extent to which 2 measures of physical 
fitness-walking pace and handgrip strength-are associated with life expectancy 
across different levels of adiposity, as the relative importance of physical 
fitness and adiposity on health outcomes is still debated.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Usual walking pace (self-defined as slow, steady/average, 
brisk), dynamometer-assessed handgrip strength, body mass index (BMI), waist 
circumference, and body-fat percentage determined at baseline in the UK Biobank 
prospective cohort study (March 13, 2006, to January 31, 2016). Life expectancy 
was estimated at 45 years of age.
RESULTS: The median age and BMI of the 474,919 participants included in this 
analysis were 58.2 years and 26.7 kg/m2, respectively; over a median follow-up 
of 6.97 years, 12,823 deaths occurred. Participants reporting brisk walking pace 
had longer life expectancies across all levels of BMIs, ranging from 86.7 to 
87.8 years in women and 85.2 to 86.8 years in men. Conversely, subjects 
reporting slow walking pace had shorter life expectancies, being the lowest 
observed in slow walkers with a BMI less than 20 kg/m2 (women: 72.4 years; men: 
64.8 years). Smaller, less consistent differences in life expectancy were 
observed between participants with high and low handgrip strength, particularly 
in women. The same pattern of results was observed for waist circumference or 
body-fat percentage.
CONCLUSION: Brisk walkers were found to have longer life expectancies, which was 
constant across different levels and indices of adiposity. These findings could 
help clarify the relative importance of physical fitness and adiposity on 
mortality.

Copyright Â© 2019 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research. Published 
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mayocp.2018.10.029
PMID: 31079962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. J Geriatr Cardiol. 2019 Mar;16(3):265-271. doi: 
10.11909/j.issn.1671-5411.2019.03.003.

Impact of age on long term survival following transcatheter aortic valve 
implantation.

Kahraman Ay N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Bezmialem Vakif University, Fatih, Istanbul, 
Turkey.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the long-term survival following transcatheter aortic 
valve implantation (TAVI) in an octogenarian population with that in a younger 
population.
METHODS: This retrospective study included 274 patients that underwent TAVI for 
severe symptomatic aortic stenosis. The study group was divided into two age 
groups, as those with an age â¥ 80 years (octogenarians, n = 132), and age < 80 
(younger patients, n = 142). The two groups were compared in terms of clinical 
outcomes and survival. In addition, significant predictors of survival were 
estimated.
RESULTS: Non-cardiac mortality (during follow-up) (21.9% vs. 10.5%, P = 0.01) 
and in-hospital stroke (8.3% vs. 2.8%, P = 0.01) were more common among 
octogenarians. The two groups did not differ in terms of mean survival (41.0 Â± 
2.1 vs. 38.2 Â± 2.2 months, respectively, P = 0.18). Multivariate analysis 
identified left ventricular ejection fraction < 35% (OR: 2.17, 95% CI: 
1.17-4.03; P = 0.01), preoperative of moderate to severe mitral insufficiency 
(OR: 1.88, 95% CI: 1.15-3.06; P = 0.01), postoperative major and life-threating 
bleeding (OR: 2.49, 95% CI: 1.05-5.89; P = 0.03), and in-hospital stroke (OR: 
2.29, 95% CI: 1.04-5.04; P = 0.03) as potential predictors of poor survival.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, similarly favorable survival outcomes were achieved 
in the elderly population as in younger patients, despite the presence of 
comorbid conditions. A consideration should be given to non-surgical management 
of severe aortic stenosis with the TAVI procedure in elderly patients, in the 
absence of co-existent conditions associated with shortened life expectancy.

DOI: 10.11909/j.issn.1671-5411.2019.03.003
PMCID: PMC6500565
PMID: 31080469

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


969. Genes Nutr. 2019 May 6;14:14. doi: 10.1186/s12263-019-0641-y. eCollection
2019.

Drosophila melanogaster as an alternative model organism in nutrigenomics.

Baenas N(1), Wagner AE(2).

Author information:
(1)1Institute of Nutritional Medicine, University of LÃ¼beck, Ratzeburger Allee 
160, 23538 LÃ¼beck, Germany.
(2)2Institute of Nutritional Sciences, Justus-Liebig-University, Wilhelmstrasse 
20, 35392 Giessen, Germany.

Nutrigenomics explains the interaction between the genome, the proteome, the 
epigenome, the metabolome, and the microbiome with the nutritional environment 
of an organism. It is therefore situated at the interface between an organism's 
health, its diet, and the genome. The diet and/or specific dietary compounds are 
able to affect not only the gene expression patterns, but also the epigenetic 
mechanisms as well as the production of metabolites and the bacterial 
composition of the microbiota. Drosophila melanogaster provides a well-suited 
model organism to unravel these interactions in the context of nutrigenomics as 
it combines several advantages including an affordable maintenance, a short 
generation time, a high fecundity, a relatively short life expectancy, a 
well-characterized genome, and the availability of several mutant fly lines. 
Furthermore, it hosts a mammalian-like intestinal system with a clear microbiota 
and a fat body resembling the adipose tissue with liver-equivalent oenocytes, 
supporting the fly as an excellent model organism not only in nutrigenomics but 
also in nutritional research. Experimental approaches that are essentially 
needed in nutrigenomic research, including several sequencing technologies, have 
already been established in the fruit fly. However, studies investigating the 
interaction of a specific diet and/or dietary compounds in the fly are currently 
very limited. The present review provides an overview of the fly's morphology 
including the intestinal microbiome and antimicrobial peptides as modulators of 
the immune system. Additionally, it summarizes nutrigenomic approaches in the 
fruit fly helping to elucidate host-genome interactions with the nutritional 
environment in the model organism Drosophila melanogaster.

DOI: 10.1186/s12263-019-0641-y
PMCID: PMC6501408
PMID: 31080523

Conflict of interest statement: Not applicable.Not applicable.The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.Springer Nature remains neutral 
with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


970. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2019 Nov;61(11):1336-1343. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.14256.
Epub  2019 May 12.

Mortality in children with cerebral palsy in rural Bangladesh: a 
population-based surveillance study.

Jahan I(1)(2), Karim T(1)(2)(3), Das MC(1)(2), Muhit M(1)(2), Mcintyre S(4), 
Smithers-Sheedy H(3)(4), Badawi N(3)(4), Khandaker G(1)(2)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)CSF Global, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(2)Asian Institute of Disability and Development (AIDD), University of South 
Asia, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(3)Discipline of Child and Adolescent Health, Sydney Medical School, The 
University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(4)Cerebral Palsy Alliance Research Institute, The University of Sydney, Sydney, 
New South Wales, Australia.
(5)Central Queensland Public Health Unit, Central Queensland Hospital and Health 
Service, Rockhampton, Queensland, Australia.

AIM: To determine the mortality rate, immediate cause of death (CoD), and 
predictors of death in children with cerebral palsy (CP) in rural Bangladesh.
METHOD: We carried out a prospective population-based surveillance study of 
children with CP aged 0 to 18 years registered with the Bangladesh Cerebral 
Palsy Register (BCPR) between January 2015 and December 2016, with subsequent 
follow-up until December 2017. Verbal autopsy was applied to assign immediate 
CoD. Crude mortality rates, hazard ratios of death, and survival probabilities 
were estimated.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine of the 678 children in the BCPR died during the study 
period, resulting in a crude mortality rate of 19.5 per 1000 person-years of 
observation (total follow-up duration 1486.8 person-years; mean 2y [standard 
deviation 6mo]). The leading immediate CoD was meningitis (n=9) and pneumonia 
(n=8). Survival probability and hazard ratio of death was significantly 
associated with age, Gross Motor Functional Classification System level, and 
associated impairments. Severe underweight and/or severe stunting was 
significantly overrepresented among deceased children than others in the cohort 
(p<0.05) when compared with the World Health Organization reference population.
INTERPRETATION: The majority of deaths were due to potentially preventable 
causes. The life expectancy of these children could have been extended by 
ensuring primary healthcare and nutritional supplementation.
WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS: Mortality rate in children with cerebral palsy (CP) in 
rural Bangladesh is 19.5 per 1000 person-years. The majority of children with CP 
died from potentially preventable and treatable conditions. Motor severity, 
associated impairments, and malnutrition make children with CP vulnerable to 
premature death in rural Bangladesh.

Â© 2019 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.14256
PMID: 31081134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Physiother Theory Pract. 2021 Jan;37(1):204-217. doi: 
10.1080/09593985.2019.1616017. Epub 2019 May 13.

The reliability and concurrent validity of a new iPhoneÂ® application for 
measuring active lumbar spine flexion and extension range of motion in patients 
with low back pain.

Pourahmadi M(1), Momeni E(1), Mohseni N(2), Hesarikia H(3), Ghanjal A(4), 
Shamsoddini A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiotherapy, School of Rehabilitation Sciences, Iran 
University of Medical Sciences , Tehran, Iran.
(2)Faculty of Health Sciences, Semmelweis University , Budapest, Hungary.
(3)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences 
, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Health Management Research Center, Life Style Institute, Baqiyatallah 
University of Medical Sciences , Tehran, Iran.
(5)Exercise Physiology Research Center, Life Style Institute, Baqiyatallah 
University of Medical Sciences , Tehran, Iran.

Objective: To investigate the reliability and validity of an iPhoneÂ® application 
(iHandyÂ® Level) for measuring active lumbar flexion-extension range of motion 
(ROM) in chronic nonspecific low back pain (CNLBP) patients. Methods: Fifteen 
CNLBP patients were recruited. The participants stood in a relaxed position and 
the T12-L1 and S1-S2 spinal levels were identified through palpation and were 
marked on the skin. Two blinded examiners used a gravity-based inclinometer and 
the application in order to measure ROM. The instruments were lined up 
appropriately and the participants were asked to perform maximum lumbar flexion 
following by maximum extension. First, each examiner placed the instruments over 
the T12-L1 level and then over the S1-S2 level during the movements. In order to 
calculate flexion-extension ROM, the measurement which was obtained from T12-L1 
was subtracted from S1-S2. Intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) models (3, 
k) and (2, k) were used in order to determine the intrarater and inter-rater 
reliability, respectively. The Spearman's correlation coefficients (rs ) and 
Bland-Altman plots were used in order to examine the validity. Results: 
Fair-to-excellent intrarater (ICC = 0.39-0.89) and moderate-to-good inter-rater 
reliability (ICC = 0.55-0.77) were observed using the inclinometer. Moreover, 
poor-to-good intrarater (ICC = 0.30-70) and inter-rater (ICC = 0.13-0.70) 
reliability were found with the application. The Spearman's correlation 
coefficients demonstrated low-to-moderate associations between the measures of 
the two instruments (rs â¥ 0.22). The Bland-Altman plots indicated that there was 
a significant difference between the instruments for measuring flexion ROM. The 
difference was not significant for measuring extension ROM. Conclusion: The 
iHandyÂ® Level application does not have sufficient validity for measuring active 
lumbar flexion ROM in CNLBP patients.

DOI: 10.1080/09593985.2019.1616017
PMID: 31081417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2019 Aug;66(8):e27808. doi: 10.1002/pbc.27808. Epub
2019  May 13.

Health-related quality of life in adolescents and young adults with cancer - 
Including a focus on economic evaluation.

Barr RD(1), Feeny DA(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Economics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Health Utilities Incorporated, Dundas, Ontario, Canada.

Health-related quality of life (HRQL) is an amalgam of three elements - the 
opportunities that a person's health status affords, the constraints that it 
places upon the person and the value that a person places on his/her health 
status. HRQL measures are specific, for example for a disease, or generic with 
broad applicability. The latter include preference-based measures that can be 
used to generate quality-adjusted life years and so contribute to economic 
evaluation. Measures of HRQL in adolescents and young adults (AYAs) with cancer 
may fail to capture some important dimensions, for example sexual health. 
However, the use of HRQL measures in this population has identified burdens of 
morbidity according to disease, treatment status and duration of follow-up. 
There are few economic evaluations of the treatment of cancer in AYAs but 
preliminary evidence suggests that this is a cost-effective undertaking. 
Opportunities abound to include measurement of HRQL in routine clinical care.

Â© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.27808
PMID: 31081602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Traffic Inj Prev. 2019;20(4):348-352. doi: 10.1080/15389588.2019.1597269.
Epub  2019 May 13.

Evaluating the impact of criminalizing drunk driving on years of life lost due 
to road traffic deaths in one megacity, China.

Xiong X(1), Wang Z(1), Xu R(2), Li G(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Occupational and Environmental Health, School of Public 
Health , Peking University , Beijing , China.
(2)b Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, School of Public Health 
and Preventive Medicine , Monash University , Melbourne , Victoria , Australia.

Objective: Road safety is an important public health issue worldwide. However, 
few studies have analyzed the association between criminalizing drunk driving 
and years of life lost (YLL) due to road traffic deaths (RTDs). Our study can 
provide useful information about this policy. Methods: We used interrupted 
time-series analysis to find the changes in monthly YLL and RTD before and after 
law enforcement began using RTD data from 2008 to 2014 in Tianjin. Results: 
After adjustment for seasonality, months, holidays, and the number of people in 
each district, criminalizing drunk driving was followed by a 11.1% (95% 
confidence interval [CI], 1.1-21.1%) reduction in risk of RTDs and a 
corresponding 778.1-year (95% CI, 200-1,355.1) reduction in monthly YLL. The 
reduction in YLL was especially significant among males, those aged 16-64 years 
old, and suburban residents. Conclusions: This study highlights that the law can 
lead to a reduction in YLL due to RTDs in Tianjin, China. Large immediate public 
health benefits resulted from the new road traffic law in China. YLL provides a 
complementary measure for examining the effect of criminalization on drunk 
driving RTDs.

DOI: 10.1080/15389588.2019.1597269
PMID: 31081701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. J Med Entomol. 2019 Sep 3;56(5):1225-1230. doi: 10.1093/jme/tjz069.

Geographical Variations in Life Histories of House Flies, Musca domestica 
(Diptera: Muscidae), in Punjab, Pakistan.

Khan HAA(1), Khan MU(1), Nasiba A(1), Riaz S(1), Altaf M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Agricultural Sciences, University of the Punjab, Lahore, 
Pakistan.

Musca domestica Linnaeus is an important public health pest with the ability to 
adapt to diverse climates. Assessment of variations in biology and life-history 
traits of insects along geographical gradients is important for a successful 
management plan in different regions. We investigated life-history traits and 
life table parameters of M. domestica from six different geographical regions of 
Punjab, Pakistan: Rahim Yar Khan (RYK), Bahawalpur (BWP), Multan (MTN), Lahore 
(LHR), Gujrat (GJT), and Murree (MRE). Overall, M. domestica from localities of 
lower latitude and elevations with higher mean temperatures completed their 
development faster than those from localities of higher latitude and elevations 
with lower mean temperatures. The immature developmental time was the longest 
for the MRE population that was collected from higher latitude and elevation 
with cooler climate, whereas the shortest for the RYK population from lower 
latitude with warmer climate. Pupal weights were heavier for the RYK, BWP, and 
MTN populations, all were from the lowest latitude and elevations with warmer 
climate, compared with rest of the field populations. Similarly, rate of adult 
eclosion, fecundity, egg hatching, longevity, and life table parameters such as 
intrinsic rate of population increase, mean relative growth rate, net 
reproductive rate, and biotic potential were significantly higher for the RYK, 
BWP, and MTN populations compared with the GJT, LHR, and MRE populations of M. 
domestica. The current results will probably be of importance when planning 
management of M. domestica in different geographical regions of Pakistan.

Â© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jme/tjz069
PMID: 31081906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Value Health Reg Issues. 2019 Dec;20:79-85. doi: 10.1016/j.vhri.2019.01.010.
 Epub 2019 May 10.

Cost-Effectiveness of Bariatric Surgery Compared With Nonsurgical Treatment in 
People With Obesity and Comorbidity in Colombia.

Gil-Rojas Y(1), GarzÃ³n A(2), Lasalvia P(1), HernÃ¡ndez F(1), CastaÃ±eda-Cardona 
C(1), Rosselli D(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economic Studies, BogotÃ¡, Colombia.
(2)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Pontificia Universidad 
Javeriana, BogotÃ¡, Colombia.
(3)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Pontificia Universidad 
Javeriana, BogotÃ¡, Colombia. Electronic address: diego.rosselli@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The increase in obesity prevalence and its relationship with 
multiple cardiovascular complications have raised the burden of obesity in the 
general population. Bariatric surgery has shown to be more effective in reducing 
weight than the traditional pharmacologic and nonpharmacologic treatments.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of this alternative compared with 
standard treatment in the Colombian context.
METHODS: A Markov single cohort model was used to simulate the incremental cost 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained every year over a base-case 5-year 
time horizon. The model considers 5 health states: comorbidity, remission, acute 
myocardial infarction, stroke, and death. Four comorbidity conditions were 
evaluated separately: diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and sleep apnea. The 
model was evaluated from a third-payer perspective. All costs were expressed in 
2016 Colombian pesos ($1.00 = 3051 COP). A 5% annual discount rate was applied 
to both costs and outcomes.
RESULTS: In baseline analysis, bariatric surgery was a cost-effective 
alternative compared with nonsurgical treatment in the diabetes and hypertension 
cohort with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $6ââ194â899 and 
$43â689â527 per QALY gained, respectively. In the sleep apnea cohort, surgery 
has greater effectiveness and lower costs, which is why it is a dominant 
strategy. In the dyslipidemia cohort, bariatric surgery is dominated by the 
nonsurgical approach.
CONCLUSION: The current study provides evidence that bariatric surgery is a 
cost-effective alternative among some cohorts in the Colombian setting. For 
obese patients with sleep apnea or diabetes, bariatric surgery is a 
recommendable alternative (dominant and cost-effective, respectively) for the 
Colombian healthcare system.

Copyright Â© 2019 ISPOR--The professional society for health economics and 
outcomes research. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vhri.2019.01.010
PMID: 31082638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Ann Surg. 2019 Jun;269(6):1192-1199. doi: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000002722.

Increased Rate of Long-term Mortality Among Burn Survivors: A Population-based 
Matched Cohort Study.

Mason SA(1)(2)(3), Nathens AB(1)(2)(3), Byrne JP(1)(2)(3), Diong C(4), Fowler 
RA(1)(3)(5), Karanicolas PJ(1)(2)(3), Moineddin R(4)(6), Jeschke MG(1)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Sunnybrook Research Institute, Toronto, Canada.
(2)Division of General Surgery, Department of General Surgery, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(3)Institute for Health Policy, Management, and Evaluation, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(4)Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, Toronto, Canada.
(5)Interdepartmental Division of Critical Care, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Canada.
(6)Department of Family and Community Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Canada.
(7)Ross Tilley Burn Centre, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, Canada.
(8)Institute of Medical Sciences, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate long-term mortality following major burn injury compared 
with matched controls.
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: The effect of sustaining a major burn injury on 
long-term life expectancy is poorly understood.
METHODS: Using health administrative data, all adults who survived to discharge 
after major burn injury between 2003 and 2013 were matched to between 1 and 5 
uninjured controls on age, sex, and the extent of both physical and 
psychological comorbidity. To account for socioeconomic factors such as 
residential instability and material deprivation, we also matched on 
marginalization index. The primary outcome was 5-year all-cause mortality, and 
all patients were followed until death or March 31, 2014. Cumulative mortality 
estimates were estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Cox proportional hazards 
modeling was used to estimate the association of burn injury with mortality.
RESULTS: In total, 1965 burn survivors of mean age 44 (standard deviation 17) 
years with median total body surface area burn of 15% [interquartile range (IQR) 
5-15] were matched to 8671 controls and followed for a median 5 (IQR 2.5-8) 
years. Five-year mortality was significantly greater among burn survivors (11 vs 
4%, P < 0.001). The hazard ratio was greatest during the first year (4.15, 95% 
CI 3.17-5.42), and declined each year thereafter, reaching 1.65 (95% CI 
1.02-2.67) in the fifth year after discharge. Burn survivors had increased 
mortality related to trauma (mortality rate ratio, MRR 9.8, 95% CI 5-19) and 
mental illness (MRR 9.1, 95% CI 4-23).
CONCLUSIONS: Burn survivors have a significantly higher rate of long-term 
mortality than matched controls, particularly related to trauma and mental 
illness. Burn follow-up should be focused on injury prevention, mental 
healthcare, and detection and treatment of new disease.

DOI: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000002722
PMID: 31082920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. JAMA. 2019 May 21;321(19):1916-1925. doi: 10.1001/jama.2019.4329.

Association of Household Income With Life Expectancy and Cause-Specific 
Mortality in Norway, 2005-2015.

Kinge JM(1)(2), Modalsli JH(3), Ãverland S(1)(4), Gjessing HK(1)(4), TollÃ¥nes 
MC(5), Knudsen AK(1)(4), Skirbekk V(1)(6), Strand BH(1)(2)(7)(8), HÃ¥berg SE(1), 
Vollset SE(4)(9).

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway.
(2)University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(3)Statistics Norway, Research Department, Oslo, Norway.
(4)University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(5)Norwegian Organization for Quality Improvement of Laboratory Examinations, 
Bergen, Norway.
(6)Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York, New York.
(7)Norwegian National Advisory Unit on Aging and Health, Vestfold Hospital 
Trust, TÃ¸nsberg, Norway.
(8)Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(9)Department of Health Metrics Sciences and Institute for Health Metrics and 
Evaluation, University of Washington, Seattle.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2019 May 21;321(19):1877-1879.

IMPORTANCE: Examining causes of death and making comparisons across countries 
may increase understanding of the income-related differences in life expectancy.
OBJECTIVES: To describe income-related differences in life expectancy and causes 
of death in Norway and to compare those differences with US estimates.
DESIGN AND SETTING: A registry-based study including all Norwegian residents 
aged at least 40 years from 2005 to 2015.
EXPOSURES: Household income adjusted for household size.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Life expectancy at 40 years of age and 
cause-specific mortality.
RESULTS: In total, 3 041 828 persons contributed 25 805 277 person-years and 
441â¯768 deaths during the study period (mean [SD] age, 59.3 years [13.6]; mean 
[SD] number of household members per person, 2.5 [1.3]). Life expectancy was 
highest for women with income in the top 1% (86.4 years [95% CI, 85.7-87.1]) 
which was 8.4 years (95% CI, 7.2-9.6) longer than women with income in the 
lowest 1%. Men with the lowest 1% income had the lowest life expectancy (70.6 
years [95% CI, 69.6-71.6]), which was 13.8 years (95% CI, 12.3-15.2) less than 
men with the top 1% income. From 2005 to 2015, the differences in life 
expectancy by income increased, largely attributable to deaths from 
cardiovascular disease, cancers, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and 
dementia in older age groups and substance use deaths and suicides in younger 
age groups. Over the same period, life expectancy for women in the highest 
income quartile increased 3.2 years (95% CI, 2.7-3.7), while life expectancy for 
women in the lowest income quartile decreased 0.4 years (95% CI, -1.0 to 0.2). 
For men, life expectancy increased 3.1 years (95% CI, 2.5-3.7) in the highest 
income quartile and 0.9 years (95% CI, 0.2-1.6) in the lowest income quartile. 
Differences in life expectancy by income levels in Norway were similar to 
differences observed in the United States, except that life expectancy was 
higher in Norway in the lower to middle part of the income distribution in both 
men and women.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In Norway, there were substantial and increasing gaps 
in life expectancy by income level from 2005 to 2015. The largest differences in 
life expectancy between Norway and United States were for individuals in the 
lower to middle part of the income distribution.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2019.4329
PMCID: PMC6515574
PMID: 31083722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Kinge 
reported receiving grants from the Research Council of Norway during the conduct 
of the study. Dr Gjessing reported receiving grants from the Research Council of 
Norway during the conduct of the study and outside the submitted work. Dr HÃ¥berg 
reported receiving grants from the Research Council of Norway during the conduct 
of the study. No other disclosures were reported.


978. JAMA. 2019 May 21;321(19):1877-1879. doi: 10.1001/jama.2019.4891.

Life and Death in Norway and the United States.

Cutler DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2019 May 21;321(19):1916-1925.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2019.4891
PMID: 31083727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. J Med Econ. 2019 Oct;22(10):967-980. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2019.1609300.
Epub  2019 May 14.

An economic evaluation attached to a single-centre, parallel group, unmasked, 
randomized controlled trial of a 3-day intensive social cognitive treatment (can 
do treatment) in patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis and low 
disability.

van Mastrigt GA(1), Evers SM(1)(2), Heerings M(3), Visser LH(4)(5), Ruimschotel 
RP(6), Hussaarts A(3), Duyverman L(6), Valkenburg-Vissers J(7), Cornelissen 
J(8), Bos M(9), van Droffelaar M(3), Jongen PJ(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research, CAPHRI Care and Public Health 
Research Institute, Maastricht University , Maastricht , The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Public Mental Healthcare, Trimbos Institute, Netherlands 
Institute of Mental Health and Addiction, Center for Economic Evaluations , 
Utrecht , The Netherlands.
(3)National Multiple Sclerosis Foundation , Rotterdam , The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Neurology, St. Elisabeth Hospital , Tilburg , The Netherlands.
(5)University of Humanistic Studies , Utrecht , The Netherlands.
(6)Medical Psychiatric Centre PsyToBe , Rotterdam , The Netherlands.
(7)Fysiotherapie Maaspoort , 's-Hertogenbosch , The Netherlands.
(8)Dansjobs , Landsmeer , The Netherlands.
(9)Department of Neurology, St. Anna Hospital , Geldrop , The Netherlands.
(10)Department of Community & Occupational Medicine, University Medical Centre 
Groningen , Groningen , The Netherlands.
(11)MS4 Research Institute , Nijmegen , The Netherlands.

Aims: This trial-based economic evaluation (EE) assesses from a societal 
perspective the cost-effectiveness of an intensive 3-day cognitive theory-based 
intervention (CDT), compared to care-as-usual, in patients with relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) and low disability (Expanded Disability 
Status Scale [EDDS] score < 4.0). Materials and methods: The trial of the EE was 
registered in the Dutch Trial Register: Trial NL5158 (NTR5298). The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was expressed in cost on the Control sub-scale 
of the Multiple Sclerosis Self-Efficacy Scale (MSSES) and the incremental 
cost-utility ratio (ICUR) in the cost per Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALY) 
