more absurd consequence of having to place every human somatic cell under the 
protection of human dignity and the right to life. As totipotency or the 
developmental potential therefore cannot delimit entities considered worthy of 
protection (i.e. human embryos) from entities considered not worthy of 
protection (i.e. 2PN cells, gametes, hESC, hiPSC and human somatic cells), it is 
not a suitable normative criterion. As a paradigmatic case, 2PN cell donation 
demonstrates that by retaining this normative criterion the now obsolete German 
Embryo Protection (Act) ultimately undermines itself.

© 2019 The Authors Bioethics Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bioe.12595
PMCID: PMC6617743
PMID: 31135064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


158. Curr Opin Psychiatry. 2019 Sep;32(5):388-393. doi:
10.1097/YCO.0000000000000530.

Causes of premature mortality in schizophrenia: a review of literature published 
in 2018.

Laursen TM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Register-based Research, Aarhus BSS, Aarhus University.
(2)The Lundbeck Foundation Initiative for Integrative Psychiatric Research 
(iPSYCH), Aarhus, Denmark.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The current review examines the recent literature on the 
causes of premature mortality in schizophrenia.
RECENT FINDINGS: People with schizophrenia have higher premature mortality rates 
compared with the general population. Suicides and accidents account for a 
nontrivial part of the excess mortality, but the largest part is attributable to 
natural causes of death. Five major causes have been identified: first, adverse 
effects of medication; second, suboptimal lifestyle; third, somatic comorbidity; 
fourth, suboptimal treatment of somatic disorders; and fifth, accelerated 
ageing/genetic explanations. The positive aspect is that people with 
schizophrenia have increasing life expectancy, at least in high-income 
countries, and this development seems to largely follow the increase in the 
general population. Especially mortality rates from unnatural causes appear to 
have a positive impact. Nevertheless, despite more than 100 years of research 
and progress, the excess mortality in persons with schizophrenia remains 
unacceptably high, with no prospects of reaching the level in the general 
population.
SUMMARY: The excess mortality in schizophrenia has received much focus. Future 
studies should explore the reasons for the high rates of natural causes of 
death, while aiming to disentangle the complex interplay between medication, 
lifestyle, comorbidity, treatment of somatic disorders, and genetic effects.

DOI: 10.1097/YCO.0000000000000530
PMID: 31135491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2019 Aug;477(8):1934-1946. doi: 
10.1097/CORR.0000000000000808.

Transcutaneous Carbon Dioxide Improves Contractures After Spinal Cord Injury in 
Rats.

Inoue S(1), Moriyama H, Yakuwa T, Mizuno E, Suzuki R, Nomura M, Sakai Y, Akisue 
T.

Author information:
(1)S. Inoue, T. Yakuwa, E. Mizuno, R. Suzuki, M. Nomura, Department of 
Rehabilitation Science, Graduate School of Health Sciences, Kobe University, 
Kobe, Japan H. Moriyama, T. Akisue, Life and Medical Sciences Area, Health 
Sciences Discipline, Kobe University, Kobe, Japan Y. Sakai, Division of 
Rehabilitation Medicine, Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine, Kobe, 
Japan.

BACKGROUND: Joint contractures are a major complication in patients with spinal 
cord injuries. Positioning, stretching, and physical therapy are advocated to 
prevent and treat contractures; however, many patients still develop them. Joint 
motion (exercise) is crucial to correct contractures. Transcutaneous carbon 
dioxide (CO2) therapy was developed recently, and its effect is similar to that 
of exercise. This therapy may be an alternative or complementary approach to 
exercise.
QUESTION/PURPOSES: Using an established model of spinal cord injury in rats with 
knee flexion contractures, we sought to clarify whether transcutaneous CO2 
altered (1) contracture, as measured by ROM; (2) muscular and articular factors 
contributing to the loss of ROM; (3) fibrosis and fibrosis-related gene 
expression in muscle; and (4) the morphology of and fibrosis-related protein 
expression in the joint capsule.
METHODS: Thirty-six Wistar rats were divided into three equal groups: caged 
control, those untreated after spinal cord injury, and those treated with CO2 
after spinal cord injury. The rats were treated with CO2 from either the first 
day (prevention) or 15th day (treatment) after spinal cord injury for 2 or 4 
weeks. The hindlimbs of rats in the treated group were exposed to CO2 gas for 20 
minutes once daily. Knee extension ROM was measured with a goniometer and was 
measured again after myotomy. We calculated the muscular and articular factors 
responsible for contractures by subtracting the post-myotomy ROM from that 
before myotomy. We also quantified histologic muscle fibrosis and evaluated 
fibrosis-related genes (collagen Type 1, α1 and transforming growth factor beta) 
in the biceps femoris muscle with real-time polymerase chain reaction. The 
synovial intima's length was measured, and the distribution of fibrosis-related 
proteins (Type I collagen and transforming growth factor beta) in the joint 
capsule was observed with immunohistochemistry. Knee flexion contractures 
developed in rats after spinal cord injuries at all timepoints.
RESULTS: CO2 therapy improved limited-extension ROM in the prevention group at 2 
weeks (22° ± 2°) and 4 weeks (29° ± 1°) and in the treatment group at 2 weeks 
(31° ± 1°) compared with untreated rats after spinal cord injuries (35° ± 2°, 
mean difference, 13°; 39° ± 1°, mean difference, 9°; and 38° ± 1°, mean 
difference, 7°, respectively) (95% CI, 10.50-14.86, 8.10-10.19, and 4.73-9.01, 
respectively; all p < 0.001). Muscular factors decreased in treated rats in the 
prevention group at 2 weeks (8° ± 2°) and 4 weeks (14°± 1°) and in the treatment 
group at 2 weeks (14 ± 1°) compared with untreated rats (15° ± 1°, 4.85-9.42; 
16° ± 1°, 1.24-3.86; and 17° ± 2°, 1.16-5.34, respectively; all p < 0.05). The 
therapy improved articular factors in the prevention group at 2 weeks (4° ± 1°) 
and 4 weeks (6° ± 1°) and in the treatment group at 2 weeks (8° ± 1°) compared 
with untreated rats (10° ± 1°, 4.05-7.05; 12° ± 1°, 5.18-8.02; and 11° ± 2°, 
1.73-5.50, respectively; all p < 0.05). CO2 therapy decreased muscle fibrosis in 
the prevention group at 2 weeks (p < 0.001). The expression of collagen Type 1, 
α1 mRNA in the biceps femoris decreased in treated rats in the prevention group 
at 2 and 4 weeks compared with untreated rat (p = 0.002 and p = 0.008, 
respectively), although there was little difference in the expression of 
transforming growth factor beta (p > 0.05). CO2 therapy did not improve 
shortening of the synovial intima at all timepoints (all p > 0.05). CO2 therapy 
decreased transforming growth factor beta immunolabeling in joint capsules in 
the rats in the prevention group at 2 weeks. The staining intensity and Type I 
collagen pattern showed no differences among all groups at all timepoints.
CONCLUSION: CO2 therapy may be useful for preventing and treating contractures 
after spinal cord injuries. CO2 therapy particularly appears to be more 
effective as a prevention and treatment strategy in early-stage contractures 
before irreversible degeneration occurs, as shown in a rat model.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Our findings support the idea that CO2 therapy may be able 
to improve the loss of ROM after spinal cord injury.

DOI: 10.1097/CORR.0000000000000808
PMCID: PMC7000005
PMID: 31135536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All ICMJE Conflict of Interest Forms for authors 
and Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research® editors and board members are on 
file with the publication and can be viewed on request.


160. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2019 Jul;41(5):355-360. doi: 
10.1097/MPH.0000000000001509.

Elevated International Normalized Ratio (INR) is Associated With an Increased 
Risk of Intraventricular Hemorrhage in Extremely Preterm Infants.

Glover Williams A(1), Odd D(1)(2), Bates S(1), Russell G(3), Heep A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Southmead Neonatal Intensive Care Unit.
(2)School of Clinical Science, University of Bristol.
(3)Department of Haematology, Southmead Hospital, North Bristol NHS Trust, 
Bristol, UK.

INTRODUCTION: The international normalized ratio (INR), a standardized method of 
reporting the prothrombin time, can be a surrogate marker of the vitamin 
K-dependent coagulation pathways.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the relationship between INR measurements in the first 48 
hours of life and subsequent development of intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) in 
extremely preterm infants.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A single-center retrospective, observational cohort study 
of infants born at <28 weeks gestation. The main outcome measure was defined as 
the degree of IVH seen on cranial ultrasound examinations at day 7 postnatal 
age.
RESULTS: Of 200 infants, 109 (mean gestational age, 25.2 wk [SD, 1.27]) had 
coagulation results available. Of 109, 26 developed IVH. Elevated INR was 
associated with increased risk of a severe IVH (odds ratio [OR] 6.50; 95% 
confidence interval [CI], 1.65-25.62; P=0.008) adjusted for gestation, birth 
weight, and sex. INR was significantly associated with severe IVH in infants who 
did not receive blood products (OR, 64.60; 95% CI, 1.35-3081.25; P=0.035), but 
not in those who did (OR, 2.93; 95% CI, 0.67-12.71; P=0.151) 
(Pinteraction=0.086).
CONCLUSION: An elevated INR in the first 48 hours of life may be useful to 
identify preterm infants at risk of severe IVH and may guide strategies to 
prevent the development, or limit the extension, of IVH.

DOI: 10.1097/MPH.0000000000001509
PMID: 31135715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Obstet Gynecol. 2019 Jun;133(6):1199-1207. doi:
10.1097/AOG.0000000000003264.

Cost Effectiveness of Neonatal Resuscitation at 22 Weeks of Gestation.

Yieh L(1), Dukhovny D, Zhou CG, Gievers L, Caughey AB.

Author information:
(1)Fetal and Neonatal Institute, Division of Neonatology, Children's Hospital 
Los Angeles, and the Department of Pediatrics, Keck School of Medicine, 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California; and the Division of 
Neonatology and the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oregon Health & 
Science University, Portland, Oregon.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of three different approaches to 
the care of neonates born at 22 weeks of gestation: universal resuscitation, 
selective resuscitation, or no resuscitation.
METHODS: We constructed a decision-analytic model using TreeAge to compare the 
outcomes of death and survival with and without neurodevelopmental impairment in 
a theoretical cohort of 5,176 neonates (an estimate of the annual number of 
deliveries that occur in the 22nd week of gestation in the United States). We 
took a societal perspective using a lifetime horizon, and all costs were 
expressed in 2017 U.S. dollars. Effectiveness was based on combined maternal and 
neonatal quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). The incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio was determined (cost/QALY) for each additional survivor. The willingness 
to pay threshold was set at $100,000/QALY. All model inputs were derived from 
the literature. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
performed to interrogate model assumptions.
RESULTS: Universal resuscitation would result in 373 survivors, 123 of whom 
would have severe disability. Selective resuscitation would produce 78 survivors 
with 26 affected by severe impairments. No resuscitation would result in only 
eight survivors and three neonates with severe sequelae. Selective resuscitation 
was eliminated by extended dominance because this strategy had a higher 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio than universal resuscitation, which was a 
more effective intervention. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
universal resuscitation compared with no resuscitation was not cost effective at 
$106,691/QALY. Monte Carlo simulations demonstrated that universal resuscitation 
is more effective but also more expensive compared with no resuscitation, with 
only 35% of simulations below the willingness to pay threshold.
CONCLUSION: In our model, neither selective nor universal resuscitation of 
22-week neonates is a cost-effective strategy compared with no resuscitation.

DOI: 10.1097/AOG.0000000000003264
PMID: 31135735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Obstet Gynecol. 2019 Jun;133(6):1238-1246. doi:
10.1097/AOG.0000000000003265.

Association of Pharmacist Prescription of Hormonal Contraception With Unintended 
Pregnancies and Medicaid Costs.

Rodriguez MI(1), Hersh A, Anderson LB, Hartung DM, Edelman AB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oregon Health & Science University, 
Portland, Oregon.

Erratum in
    Obstet Gynecol. 2019 Jul;134(1):182.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate unintended pregnancies averted and the cost effectiveness 
of pharmacist prescription of hormonal contraception.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was developed to determine the cost 
effectiveness of expanding the scope of pharmacists to prescribe hormonal 
contraception compared with the standard of care and contraceptive access in 
clinics. Our perspective was that of the payor, Oregon Medicaid. Our primary 
outcome was unintended pregnancies averted. Secondary outcomes included: costs 
and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Model inputs were obtained from an 
analysis of Medicaid claims for the first 24 months after policy implementation 
in Oregon, and the literature. Univariate and bivariate sensitivity analyses, as 
well as a Monte Carlo simulation, were performed.
RESULTS: Among Oregon's Medicaid population at risk for unintended pregnancy, 
the policy expanding the scope of pharmacists to prescribe hormonal 
contraception averted an estimated 51 unintended pregnancies and saved $1.6 
million dollars. Quality of life was also improved, with 158 QALYs gained per 
198,000 women. Sensitivity analysis demonstrated that the model was most 
sensitive to the effect on contraceptive continuation rates. If contraceptive 
continuation rates among women receiving care from a pharmacist are 10% less 
than among clinicians, than pharmacist prescription of hormonal contraception 
will not avert unintended pregnancies.
CONCLUSION: Pharmacist prescription of hormonal contraception averts unintended 
pregnancies and is cost effective. Full implementation of the policy is needed 
for maximum benefits. Prospective data on the effect of the policy on 
contraceptive continuation rates are needed.

DOI: 10.1097/AOG.0000000000003265
PMID: 31135740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Biostatistics. 2021 Jan 28;22(1):51-67. doi: 10.1093/biostatistics/kxz017.

On models for the estimation of the excess mortality hazard in case of 
insufficiently stratified life tables.

Rubio FJ(1), Rachet B(2), Giorgi R(3), Maringe C(4), Belot A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, King's College London, London WC2R 2LS, UK.
(2)Cancer Survival Group, Faculty of Epidemiology and Population Health, 
Department of Non-Communicable Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, London WC1E 7HT, UK.
(3)Aix Marseille Univ, APHM, INSERM, IRD, SESSTIM, Sciences Economiques & 
Sociales de la Santé & Traitement de l'Information Médicale, Hop Timone, 
BioSTIC, Biostatistique et Technologies de l'Information et de la Communication, 
Marseille, France.
(4)Cancer Survival Group, Faculty of Epidemiology and Population Health, 
Department of Non-Communicable Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, London WC1E 7HT, UK The CENSUR working survival group.

In cancer epidemiology using population-based data, regression models for the 
excess mortality hazard is a useful method to estimate cancer survival and to 
describe the association between prognosis factors and excess mortality. This 
method requires expected mortality rates from general population life tables: 
each cancer patient is assigned an expected (background) mortality rate obtained 
from the life tables, typically at least according to their age and sex, from 
the population they belong to. However, those life tables may be insufficiently 
stratified, as some characteristics such as deprivation, ethnicity, and 
comorbidities, are not available in the life tables for a number of countries. 
This may affect the background mortality rate allocated to each patient, and it 
has been shown that not including relevant information for assigning an expected 
mortality rate to each patient induces a bias in the estimation of the 
regression parameters of the excess hazard model. We propose two parametric 
corrections in excess hazard regression models, including a single-parameter or 
a random effect (frailty), to account for possible mismatches in the life table 
and thus misspecification of the background mortality rate. In an extensive 
simulation study, the good statistical performance of the proposed approach is 
demonstrated, and we illustrate their use on real population-based data of lung 
cancer patients. We present conditions and limitations of these methods and 
provide some recommendations for their use in practice.

© The Authors 2019. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/biostatistics/kxz017
PMCID: PMC7846106
PMID: 31135884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. J Ambul Care Manage. 2019 Jul/Sep;42(3):202-210. doi: 
10.1097/JAC.0000000000000278.

Confronting the Post-ACA American Health Crisis: Designing Health Care for Value 
and Equity.

Fiscella K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Public Health Sciences and Community Health, 
University of Rochester School of Medicine, Rochester, New York.

The United States is in the midst of a health crisis marked by unprecedented 
3-year declines in life expectancy. Addressing this national crisis requires 
alignment of public policies, public health policies, and health care policies, 
with the overarching aim of improving national health and health equity. 
Aligning national polices to support human needs provides a foundation for 
implementing post-Affordable Care Act national health care reform. Reform should 
start with the twin goals of improving health care value and equity. A focus on 
value, that is, outcomes and processes desired by patients, is critical to 
ensuring that resources are judiciously deployed to optimize individual and 
population health. A focus on health care equity ensures that the health care 
system is intentionally designed to minimize inequities in health care processes 
and outcomes, particularly for member of socially disadvantaged groups. All 
sectors related to the health care system-from policies and payment mechanisms 
to delivery design, measurement, patient engagement/democratization, training, 
and research-should be tightly aligned with improving health care value and 
equity during this next era of health care reform.

DOI: 10.1097/JAC.0000000000000278
PMID: 31136391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Mol Pharm. 2019 Jul 1;16(7):3237-3252. doi:
10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.9b00432.  Epub 2019 Jun 13.

Hydrophilic Small Molecules That Harness Transthyretin To Enhance the Safety and 
Efficacy of Targeted Chemotherapeutic Agents.

Pal A, Albusairi W, Liu F, Tuhin MTH, Miller M, Liang D, Joo H, Amin TU, Wilson 
EA, Faridi JS, Park M, Alhamadsheh MM.

The hydrophobicity of many chemotherapeutic agents usually results in their 
nonselective passive distribution into healthy cells and organs causing 
collateral toxicity. Ligand-targeted drugs (LTDs) are a promising class of 
targeted anticancer agents. The hydrophilicity of the targeting ligands in LTDs 
limits its nonselective passive tissue distribution and toxicity to healthy 
cells. In addition, the small size of LTDs allows for better tumor penetration, 
especially in the case of solid tumors. However, the short circulation half-life 
of LTDs, due to their hydrophilicity and small size, remains a significant 
challenge for achieving their full therapeutic potential. Therefore, extending 
the circulation half-life of targeted chemotherapeutic agents while maintaining 
their hydrophilicity and small size will represent a significant advance toward 
effective and safe cancer treatment. Here, we present a new approach for 
enhancing the safety and efficacy of targeted chemotherapeutic agents. By 
endowing hydrophobic chemotherapeutic agents with a targeting moiety and a 
hydrophilic small molecule that binds reversibly to the serum protein 
transthyretin, we generated small hydrophilic drug conjugates that displayed 
enhanced circulation half-life in rodents and selectivity to cancer cells. To 
the best of our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of a successful 
approach that maintains the small size and hydrophilicity of targeted anticancer 
agents containing hydrophobic payloads while at the same time extending their 
circulation half-life. This was demonstrated by the superior in vivo efficacy 
and lower toxicity of our conjugates in xenograft mouse models of metastatic 
prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.9b00432
PMCID: PMC6607395
PMID: 31136717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


166. J Thorac Oncol. 2019 Aug;14(8):1343-1353. doi: 10.1016/j.jtho.2019.04.029.
Epub  2019 May 25.

A Proposed System Toward Standardizing Surgical-Based Treatments for Malignant 
Pleural Mesothelioma, From the Joint National Cancer Institute-International 
Association for the Study of Lung Cancer-Mesothelioma Applied Research 
Foundation Taskforce.

Friedberg JS(1), Culligan MJ(2), Tsao AS(3), Rusch V(4), Sepesi B(5), Pass 
HI(6), Bueno R(7), Burt B(8), Sugarbaker DJ(8), de Perrot M(9), Adjei AA(10), 
Adusumilli PS(4), Hirsch FR(11), Malik SM(12), Harpole DJ Jr(13).

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland. Electronic address: jfriedberg@som.umaryland.edu.
(2)Division of Thoracic Surgery, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland.
(3)Department of Thoracic/Head and Neck Medical Oncology, The University of 
Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(4)Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New 
York.
(5)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, The University of Texas 
M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(6)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, New York University, Langone Medical 
Center, New York, New York.
(7)Thoracic Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.
(8)Department of Surgery, Division of Thoracic Surgery, Baylor College of 
Medicine, Houston, Texas.
(9)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Toronto General Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada; Princess Margaret Cancer Center, University Health Network, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(10)Division of Medical Oncology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.
(11)Division of Medical Oncology, Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York, New 
York.
(12)Clinical Investigations Branch, Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program, National 
Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
(13)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Duke University, 
Durham, North Carolina.

Comment in
    J Thorac Oncol. 2020 May;15(5):e73-e74.
    J Thorac Oncol. 2020 May;15(5):e75-e77.

This article is a joint effort arising from a task force formed at a National 
Cancer Institute-International Association for the Study of Lung 
Cancer-Mesothelioma Applied Research Foundation Mesothelioma Clinical Trials 
Planning Meeting, held at the NIH in March 2017. Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
remains one of the most virulent and recalcitrant malignancies, still considered 
incurable, and in desperate need of clinical trials in order to make progress 
for our patients. Although not standard of care, there is compelling evidence 
that a select subgroup of mesothelioma patients benefit from a surgery-based 
multimodal approach. As it is not possible to achieve a microscopically complete 
resection with mesothelioma, there appears to be no role for surgery alone. 
Thus, it is anticipated that significant strides in the surgery-based treatment 
of this cancer will require trials that determine which complementary treatments 
best augment the cytoreductive efficacy of surgery. Although lung-sacrificing 
surgery for mesothelioma is fairly standardized, approaches to lung-sparing 
surgery are highly variable and lung sparing surgery is emerging internationally 
as the dominant extirpative procedure for this cancer. It is not currently 
possible to rigorously assess the contribution of the adjuvant treatments 
combined with surgery because of the variability in procedures used to debulk 
this cancer, the extreme variability of the cancer itself, the variability in 
patient selection, the variability in treatment of the inevitable recurrence, 
and even the variability in follow up schedules. This article is an effort to 
address these problems by suggesting a more uniform approach to the surgical 
procedure and also proposing a series of data collection forms that could be 
adopted immediately, with any eye toward collecting the information that will be 
necessary to facilitate patient selection and determine which aspects of 
mesothelioma surgery can and should be standardized - with the goal being 
extension of life while maintaining quality of life as an equal priority. 
Furthermore, a completely original contribution in this manuscript is the 
proposal of a grading system that takes the information from the surgical 
procedure data forms and generates a completeness of resection score. This is 
the initial effort to establish a common denominator for mesothelioma surgery 
that will allow for more accurate comparison between surgical series and better 
assessment of the impact of the treatments combined with surgery.

Crown Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtho.2019.04.029
PMID: 31136816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. J Food Prot. 1995 Jun;58(6):644-647. doi: 10.4315/0362-028X-58.6.644.

Extending Shelf Life of Refrigerated Catfish Fillets Using Sodium Acetate and 
Monopotassium Phosphate.

Kim CR(1), Hearnsberger JO(1), Vickery AP(1), White CH(1), Marshall DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, Mississippi State University, Box 
9805, Mississippi Stale, MS 39762 USA.

The effects of sodium acetate (SA) and monopotassium phosphate (MKP) on total 
aerobic plate counts (APC), pH, odor, and appearance of catfish fillets during 
storage at 4°C were determined. Use of 0.75% and 1.0% SA lowered (P < 0.05) 
initial APC by 0.6 to 0.7 log units compared to the control. Microbial counts of 
SA-treated fillets remained lower than the control during storage, resulting in 
a 6-day shelf-life increase. MKP alone had no effect on APC values, but it did 
influence the activity of SA. The results indicate that a combination of SA and 
MKP could prolong the microbiological shelf life of catfish to 12 days at 4°C. 
Fillets treated with 1% SA alone or SA-MKP combinations had pH values and odor 
scores that were similar to fresh controls for up to 9 days; however, appearance 
scores were lower after 3 days, probably due to a brownish and watery 
appearance. MKP alone is not recommended for shelf-life extension of catfish 
fillets. Conversely, SA alone or combined with MKP is recommended to extend the 
microbiological shelf life of refrigerated catfish fillets.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028X-58.6.644
PMID: 31137425


168. Kidney Res Clin Pract. 2019 Jun 30;38(2):159-168. doi:
10.23876/j.krcp.18.0160.

Online hemodiafiltration and mortality risk in end-stage renal disease patients: 
A critical appraisal of current evidence.

Schiffl H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine IV, Medical Center of the University of 
Munich, Munich, Germany.

The life expectancy of end-stage renal disease patients undergoing regular 
hemodialysis (HD) remains significantly lower than in the general population. 
Reducing excess mortality by improving renal replacement options is an unmet 
medical need. Online post-dilution hemodiafiltration (HDF) has been promoted as 
the gold standard, offering improved clinical outcomes, based on numerous 
observational studies that suggest a reduced mortality risk and lower morbidity 
with HDF compared with standard HD. However, most randomized controlled trials 
(RCTs) have failed to demonstrate a significant beneficial effect of HDF on 
all-cause mortality. The effects on secondary outcomes were often negligible or 
absent. Unfortunately, these RCTs were characterized by a moderate to high risk 
of bias. In post-hoc analyses of the largest RCTs and meta-analysis of 
individual participant data from four RCTs, HDF patients receiving the highest 
convection volume consistently and dose-dependently saw superior outcomes. 
However, as these studies were not designed a priori to clarify this issue, and 
there are no indisputable mechanisms underlying reduced mortality risks, we 
cannot exclude the possibility that the health status of patients (with vascular 
access as a proxy) may affect outcomes more than the convective technique 
itself. There is currently insufficient evidence to support the contention that 
high-volume HDF confers relevant benefits to patients over standard HD. The 
conflicting data of published RCTs reduce confidence in the superiority of 
high-volume convective therapy. Hopefully, ongoing large RCTs (for example, 
CONVINCE) may supply an indisputable answer to the crucial question of 
high-volume HDF.

DOI: 10.23876/j.krcp.18.0160
PMCID: PMC6577208
PMID: 31137926

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The author has no 
conflicts of interest to declare.


169. Mol Brain. 2019 May 28;12(1):52. doi: 10.1186/s13041-019-0472-1.

Drosophila Netrin-B controls mushroom body axon extension and regulates 
courtship-associated learning and memory of a Drosophila fragile X syndrome 
model.

Kang H(1), Zhao J(1), Jiang X(1), Li G(1), Huang W(1), Cheng H(2), Duan 
R(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Genetics, School of Life Sciences, Central South 
University, Changsha, 410078, Hunan, China.
(2)Changchun Children' Hospital, Changchun, 130000, Jilin, China. 
2556266023@qq.com.
(3)Center for Medical Genetics, School of Life Sciences, Central South 
University, Changsha, 410078, Hunan, China. duanranhui@sklmg.edu.cn.
(4)Hunan Key Laboratory of Medical Genetics, Central South University, Changsha, 
410078, Hunan, China. duanranhui@sklmg.edu.cn.
(5)Hunan Key Laboratory of Animal Models for Human Diseases, Central South 
University, Changsha, 410078, Hunan, China. duanranhui@sklmg.edu.cn.

Mushroom body (MB) is a prominent structure essential for olfactory learning and 
memory in the Drosophila brain. The development of the MB involves the 
appropriate guidance of axon lobes and sister axon branches. Appropriate 
guidance that accurately shapes MB development requires the integration of 
various guidance cues provided by a series of cell types, which guide axons to 
reach their final positions within the MB neuropils. Netrins are axonal guidance 
molecules that are conserved regulators of embryonic nerve cord patterning. 
However, whether they contribute to MB morphogenesis has not yet been evaluated. 
Here, we find that Netrin-B (NetB) is highly expressed in the MB lobes, 
regulating lobe length through genetic interactions with the receptors Frazzled 
and Uncoordinated-5 from 24 h after pupal formation onwards. We observe that 
overexpression of NetB causes severe β lobe fusion in the MB, which is similar 
to the MB defects seen in the Drosophila model of fragile X syndrome (FXS). Our 
results further show that fragile-X mental retardation protein FMRP inhibits the 
translational activity of human ortholog Netrin-1 (NTN1). Knock-down of NetB 
significantly rescues the MB defects and ameliorates deficits in the learning 
and memory in FXS model Drosophila. These results indicate a critical role for 
NetB in MB lobe extension and identify NetB as a novel target of FMRP which 
contributes to learning and memory.

DOI: 10.1186/s13041-019-0472-1
PMCID: PMC6540430
PMID: 31138234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


170. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2019 May 28;20(1):254. doi:
10.1186/s12891-019-2627-8.

STepped exercise program for patients with knee OsteoArthritis (STEP-KOA): 
protocol for a randomized controlled trial.

Allen KD(1)(2), Bongiorni D(3), Caves K(4), Coffman CJ(5)(6), Floegel TA(7), 
Greysen HM(8), Hall KS(9)(10)(11), Heiderscheit B(12), Hoenig HM(3)(9)(10), 
Huffman KM(3)(13), Morey MC(9)(10)(11), Ramasunder S(14), Severson H(15), Smith 
B(5), Van Houtven C(5)(16), Woolson S(5).

Author information:
(1)Center of Innovation to Accelerate Discovery and Practice Transformation, 
Durham VA Healthcare System HSRD (152), 508 Fulton Street, Durham, NC, 27705, 
USA. kdallen@email.unc.edu.
(2)Department of Medicine & Thurston Arthritis Research Center, University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, USA. kdallen@email.unc.edu.
(3)Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Service, Durham VA Healthcare System, 
Durham, USA.
(4)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Duke University, Durham, USA.
(5)Center of Innovation to Accelerate Discovery and Practice Transformation, 
Durham VA Healthcare System HSRD (152), 508 Fulton Street, Durham, NC, 27705, 
USA.
(6)Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Duke University Medical 
Center, Durham, USA.
(7)College of Nursing, East Carolina University, Greenville, USA.
(8)University of Pennsylvania, School of Nursing, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(9)Department of Medicine, Division of Geriatrics, Duke University, Durham, USA.
(10)Claude D Pepper Older Americans Independence Center, Duke University, 
Durham, USA.
(11)Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center, Durham VA Healthcare 
System, Durham, USA.
(12)Department of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, USA.
(13)Department of Medicine, Division of Rheumatology, Duke University, Durham, 
USA.
(14)Orthopedic Surgery Service, Durham VA Healthcare System, Durham, USA.
(15)Oregon Research Institute, Eugene, OR, USA.
(16)Department of Population Health Sciences, Duke University School of 
Medicine, Durham, USA.

BACKGROUND: Physical therapy (PT) and other exercise-based interventions are 
core components of care for knee osteoarthritis (OA), but both are 
underutilized, and some patients have limited access to PT services. This 
clinical trial is examining a STepped Exercise Program for patients with Knee 
OsteoArthritis (STEP-KOA). This model of care can help to tailor exercise-based 
interventions to patient needs and also conserve higher resource services (such 
as PT) for patients who do not make clinically relevant improvements after 
receiving less costly interventions.
METHODS / DESIGN: Step-KOA is a randomized trial of 345 patients with 
symptomatic knee OA from two Department of Veterans Affairs sites. Participants 
are randomized to STEP-KOA and Arthritis Education (AE) Control groups with a 
2:1 ratio, respectively. STEP-KOA begins with 3 months of access to an 
internet-based exercise program (Step 1). Participants not meeting response 
criteria for clinically meaningful improvement in pain and function after Step 1 
progress to Step 2, which involves bi-weekly physical activity coaching calls 
for 3 months. Participants not meeting response criteria after Step 2 progress 
to in-person PT visits (Step 3). Outcomes will be assessed at baseline, 3, 6 and 
9 months (primary outcome time point). The primary outcome is the Western 
Ontario and McMasters Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), and secondary 
outcomes are objective measures of physical function. Linear mixed models will 
compare outcomes between the STEP-KOA and AE control groups at follow-up. We 
will also evaluate patient characteristics associated with treatment response 
and conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis of STEP-KOA.
DISCUSSION: STEP-KOA is a novel, efficient and patient-centered approach to 
delivering exercise-based interventions to patients with knee OA, one of the 
most prevalent and disabling health conditions. This trial will provide 
information on the effectiveness of STEP-KOA as a novel potential model of care 
for treatment of OA.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov, NCT02653768 (STepped Exercise Program 
for Knee OsteoArthritis (STEP-KOA)), Registered January 12, 2016.

DOI: 10.1186/s12891-019-2627-8
PMCID: PMC6540433
PMID: 31138256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


171. Health Technol Assess. 2019 May;23(23):1-152. doi: 10.3310/hta23230.

Interferon gamma release assays for Diagnostic Evaluation of Active tuberculosis 
(IDEA): test accuracy study and economic evaluation.

Takwoingi Y(1), Whitworth H(2)(3), Rees-Roberts M(2)(4), Badhan A(2)(4), 
Partlett C(1), Green N(5)(6)(7)(8), Boakye A(2)(4), Lambie H(2), Marongiu L(2), 
Jit M(8)(9), White P(5)(6)(7)(8), Deeks JJ(1), Kon OM(2)(4)(10), Lalvani 
A(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Applied Health Research, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, 
UK.
(2)Tuberculosis Research Centre, National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial 
College London, London, UK.
(3)Department of Clinical Research, London School of Hygiene & Tropical 
Medicine, London, UK.
(4)National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Protection Research Unit 
in Respiratory Infections, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(5)NIHR Health Protection Research Unit in Modelling Methodology, Imperial 
College London, London, UK.
(6)Medical Research Council (MRC) Centre for Outbreak Analysis and Modelling, 
Imperial College London, London, UK.
(7)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Imperial College London, 
London, UK.
(8)Modelling and Economics Unit, Centre for Infectious Disease Surveillance and 
Control, Public Health England, London, UK.
(9)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(10)St Mary's Hospital, Imperial College Healthcare Trust, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Interferon gamma release assays (IGRAs) are blood tests recommended 
for the diagnosis of tuberculosis (TB) infection. There is currently uncertainty 
about the role and clinical utility of IGRAs in the diagnostic workup of 
suspected active TB in routine NHS clinical practice.
OBJECTIVES: To compare the diagnostic accuracy and cost-effectiveness of 
T-SPOT.TB® (Oxford Immunotec, Abingdon, UK) and QuantiFERON® TB GOLD In-Tube 
(Cellestis, Carnegie, VIC, Australia) for diagnosis of suspected active TB and 
to estimate the diagnostic accuracy of second-generation IGRAs.
DESIGN: Prospective within-patient comparative diagnostic accuracy study.
SETTING: Secondary care.
PARTICIPANTS: Adults (aged ≥ 16 years) presenting as inpatients or outpatients 
at 12 NHS hospital trusts in London, Slough, Oxford, Leicester and Birmingham 
with suspected active TB.
INTERVENTIONS: The index tests [T-SPOT.TB and QuantiFERON GOLD In-Tube 
(QFT-GIT)] and new enzyme-linked immunospot assays utilising novel Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis antigens (Rv3615c, Rv2654, Rv3879c and Rv3873) were verified 
against a composite reference standard applied by a panel of clinical experts 
blinded to IGRA results.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Sensitivity, specificity, predictive values and 
likelihood ratios were calculated to determine diagnostic accuracy. A decision 
tree model was developed to calculate the incremental costs and incremental 
health utilities [quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs)] of changing from current 
practice to using an IGRA as an initial rule-out test.
RESULTS: A total of 363 patients had active TB (culture-confirmed and highly 
probable TB cases), 439 had no active TB and 43 had an indeterminate final 
diagnosis. Comparing T-SPOT.TB and QFT-GIT, the sensitivities [95% confidence 
interval (CI)] were 82.3% (95% CI 77.7% to 85.9%) and 67.3% (95% CI 62.1% to 
72.2%), respectively, whereas specificities were 82.6% (95% CI 78.6% to 86.1%) 
and 80.4% (95% CI 76.1% to 84.1%), respectively. T-SPOT.TB was more sensitive 
than QFT-GIT (relative sensitivity 1.22, 95% CI 1.14 to 1.31; p < 0.001), but 
the specificities were similar (relative specificity 1.02, 95% CI 0.97 to 1.08; 
p = 0.3). For both IGRAs the sensitivity was lower and the specificity was 
higher for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive than for HIV-negative 
patients. The most promising novel antigen was Rv3615c. The added value of 
Rv3615c to T-SPOT.TB was a 9% (95% CI 5% to 12%) relative increase in 
sensitivity at the expense of specificity, which had a relative decrease of 7% 
(95% CI 4% to 10%). The use of current IGRA tests for ruling out active TB is 
unlikely to be considered cost-effective if a QALY was valued at £20,000 or 
£30,000. For T-SPOT.TB, the probability of being cost-effective for a 
willingness to pay of £20,000/QALY was 26% and 21%, when patients with 
indeterminate test results were excluded or included, respectively. In 
comparison, the QFT-GIT probabilities were 8% and 6%. Although the use of IGRAs 
is cost saving, the health detriment is large owing to delay in diagnosing 
active TB, leading to prolonged illness. There was substantial between-patient 
variation in the tests used in the diagnostic pathway.
LIMITATIONS: The recruitment target for the HIV co-infected population was not 
achieved.
CONCLUSIONS: Although T-SPOT.TB was more sensitive than QFT-GIT for the 
diagnosis of active TB, the tests are insufficiently sensitive for ruling out 
active TB in routine clinical practice in the UK. Novel assays offer some 
promise.
FUTURE WORK: The novel assays require evaluation in distinct clinical settings 
and in immunosuppressed patient groups.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research 
(NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and the NIHR Health Protection 
Research Unit in Respiratory Infections, Imperial College London, London, UK.

Plain Language Summary: Tuberculosis (TB) is one of the world’s most important 
infectious diseases. In 2014, 1.5 million deaths were caused by the disease – 
about one death every 25 seconds. Traditional diagnosis of TB is based partly on 
the tuberculin skin test. Blood tests such as QuantiFERON GOLD In-Tube (QFT-GIT; 
Cellestis, Carnegie, VIC, Australia) and T-SPOT.TB® (Oxford Immunotec, Abingdon, 
UK) are now available. However, these two tests are not used as part of current 
NHS practice because of the lack of evidence about how well the tests perform 
when diagnosing symptomatic (active) TB in routine clinical practice. The 
purpose of our study was to compare the ability of QFT-GIT and T-SPOT.TB to 
differentiate people with active TB from those without active TB in a population 
suspected of the disease. We also assessed new blood tests that are currently 
being developed for diagnosis of active TB. We recruited 1074 patients with 
suspected TB from 14 NHS hospitals in London, Slough, Oxford, Leicester and 
Birmingham into our study. We found that T-SPOT.TB correctly detected more 
people with active TB than QFT-GIT; T-SPOT.TB would miss about 18 people out of 
every 100, whereas QFT-GIT would miss about 33 people out of every 100 with 
active TB. For this reason, neither test is good enough for routine clinical use 
because the number of people with active TB who are incorrectly diagnosed as not 
having active TB is unacceptably high. In addition, neither test is good value 
for money. However, we did find that some of the newer blood tests performed 
better than T-SPOT.TB and their usefulness should be further investigated.

DOI: 10.3310/hta23230
PMCID: PMC6556820
PMID: 31138395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Ajit Lalvani is the named inventor for several 
patents underpinning T-cell-based diagnosis including interferon gamma, 
enzyme-linked immunospot assay, ESAT-6, CFP-10, Rv3615c, Rv3873 and Rv3879c. He 
has royalty entitlements from the University of Oxford spin-out company (Oxford 
Immunotec plc), in which he has held a minority share of equity and he is a 
member of the Efficacy and Mechanism Evaluation Board. Jonathan J Deeks is a 
member of the Health Technology Assessment (HTA) Commissioning Board and the HTA 
Efficient Study Designs Board. Onn Min Kon is chairperson of the UK Joint 
Tuberculosis Committee. Peter White has received research funding from Otsuka SA 
for a retrospective study of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis treatment in 
several eastern European countries outside the submitted work. He received 
grants from the Medical Research Council during the conduct of the study.


172. Respir Care. 2019 Sep;64(9):1088-1095. doi: 10.4187/respcare.06681. Epub
2019  May 28.

Decreased Heart Rate Variability in Individuals With Amyotrophic Lateral 
Sclerosis.

Pimentel RMM(1)(2), Macedo H Jr(2)(3), Valenti VE(4), Rocha FO(2), Abreu 
LC(2)(3), de M Monteiro CB(2), Ferreira C(5).

Author information:
(1)Programa de Pós Graduação em Medicina da Universidade Federal de São Paulo, 
Departamento de Cardiologia, São Paulo, Brazil. re_pimentel1@hotmal.com.
(2)Laboratório de Delineamento da Escrita Científica, Faculdade de Medicina do 
ABC, Santo André, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Programa de Pós Graduação em Ciências da Saúde da Coletividade da Faculdade 
de Medicina do ABC, Departamento de Saúde Coletiva, Santo Andre, São Paulo, 
Brazil.
(4)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Fisioterapia, UNESP, Presidente Prudente, São 
Paulo, Brazil.
(5)Programa de Pós Graduação em Medicina da Universidade Federal de São Paulo, 
Departamento de Cardiologia, São Paulo, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is considered a multisystem 
degenerative disease due to its autonomic dysfunction effects. Autonomic cardiac 
control disorders can be seen in ALS and influence the quality of life and the 
life expectancy of affected individuals. We evaluated heart rate variability in 
subjects with ALS and with variable lung capacity.
METHODS: We conducted a prospective cross-sectional study performed in 42 
subjects with ALS. The subjects were classified into 2 groups according to their 
FVC: (FVC > 50% of the predicted value [n = 19] and FVC < 50% of the predicted 
value [n = 23]). Heart rate was recorded at rest during spontaneous breathing by 
using a heart rate monitor. Linear indices in the time and frequency domains 
were analyzed, and non-linear analysis was performed by using Poincaré plots.
RESULTS: The results showed a decrease of heart rate variability in the subjects 
with lower lung capacity and who needed ventilatory support. Qualitative 
analysis when using the plots supported the quantitative analysis, wherein the 
group with a lower lung capacity showed reduced heart rate variability. No 
significant differences were found in the other heart rate variability indices.
CONCLUSIONS: The subjects with ALS and with decreased pulmonary capacity had 
reduced heart rate variability.

Copyright © 2019 by Daedalus Enterprises.

DOI: 10.4187/respcare.06681
PMID: 31138737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have disclosed no conflicts of 
interest.


173. BMJ Glob Health. 2019 Apr 10;4(2):e001275. doi: 10.1136/bmjgh-2018-001275. 
eCollection 2019.

Youth lost to homicides: disparities in survival in Latin America and the 
Caribbean.

Canudas-Romo V(#)(1), Aburto JM(#)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Demography, College of Arts and Social Sciences, Australian 
National University, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, Australia.
(2)Interdisciplinary Centre on Population Dynamics (CPop), University of 
Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(3)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: The homicide rates among young men in Latin America and the 
Caribbean (LAC) are the highest in the world. It is not clear how this has 
impacted the life expectancy in these countries. This research has two purposes: 
(1) to quantify the impact of homicides on the mortality gap between LAC and 
high-income countries over recent years and (2) to assess the changes in 
homicide impact in overall survival over time.
METHODS: Causes of death data were extracted for 23 countries in the LAC and 15 
European countries (average European union-15 [EU-15]), using UN, UNODC, WHO, 
HMD and IHME databases for the period 2005-2014. The contribution by homicide 
deaths to the change in life expectancy, over time and as a difference between 
two populations, was quantified using decomposition methods.
RESULTS: The contribution by homicide mortality to changes in life expectancy 
levels differed widely across the examined LAC countries. In Honduras, homicide 
mortality accounted for 1.75 (95% CI 1.64 to 1.86) and 6.30 (95% CI 6.07 to 
6.53) years lower life expectancy than in the EU-15 countries for women and men, 
respectively. Contrary to this, homicide was just accountable for less than a 
couple of months of life expectancy differences between Chile and EU-15. Jamaica 
had the largest reduction in homicides and its impact increased life expectancy 
over time by almost half a year for men. However, Mexican men and Honduran women 
have experienced increases in mortality by homicide, which decreased their life 
expectancy by more than a quarter of a year between 2005 and 2014.
CONCLUSIONS: Excess mortality related to homicides in young people accounted for 
major changes in life expectancy in the LAC region. Furthermore, reducing excess 
mortality due to homicides is a crucial goal to further increase longevity 
towards levels of low-mortality countries. These reductions might prevent 
homicides spreading to other parts of Latin America. Decision and policy-makers 
in LAC need to address this immediately, and investing in the young population 
needs to be given a high priority.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjgh-2018-001275
PMCID: PMC6509612
PMID: 31139444

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


174. Surg Endosc. 2020 Mar;34(3):1167-1176. doi: 10.1007/s00464-019-06867-y. Epub
 2019 May 28.

Stage- and age-adjusted cost-effectiveness analysis of laparoscopic surgery in 
rectal cancer.

Mar J(1)(2)(3)(4), Anton-Ladislao A(5)(6), Ibarrondo O(7)(8), Arrospide 
A(7)(6)(8), Lázaro-Aramburu S(9)(6), Gonzalez N(5)(9)(6), Bare M(10)(6), Escobar 
A(11)(6), Redondo M(12)(6), Quintana JM(5)(6); REDISSEC-CARESS/CCR group.

Author information:
(1)Gipuzkoa Primary Care-Integrated Healthcare Organisation Research Unit, 
Hospital Alto Deba, Mondragón, Spain. javier.marmedina@osakidetza.eus.
(2)Health Services Research on Chronic Patients Network (REDISSEC), Bilbao, 
Spain. javier.marmedina@osakidetza.eus.
(3)Biodonostia Health Research Institute, Donostia-San Sebastián, Spain. 
javier.marmedina@osakidetza.eus.
(4)Unidad de Gestión Sanitaria, Hospital 'Alto Deba', Avenida Navarra 16, 20500, 
Mondragón, Spain. javier.marmedina@osakidetza.eus.
(5)Research Unit, Hospital Galdakao-Usansolo, Galdakao, Spain.
(6)Health Services Research on Chronic Patients Network (REDISSEC), Bilbao, 
Spain.
(7)Gipuzkoa Primary Care-Integrated Healthcare Organisation Research Unit, 
Hospital Alto Deba, Mondragón, Spain.
(8)Biodonostia Health Research Institute, Donostia-San Sebastián, Spain.
(9)General Surgery Department, Hospital Basurto, Bilbao, Spain.
(10)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Corporacio Parc Tauli, Barcelona, Spain.
(11)Research Unit, Hospital Basurto, Bilbao, Spain.
(12)Research Unit, Hospital Costa del Sol, Malaga, Spain.

BACKGROUND: It has been argued that laparoscopy should be a standard treatment 
in rectal cancer due to its greater technical complexity. The objective of this 
study was to conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis to compare laparoscopy with 
open surgery for rectal cancer adjusting for age and clinical stage.
METHODS: A real-world prospective cost-effectiveness cohort study was conducted 
with data on costs and effectiveness at individual patient level. A "genetic 
matching" algorithm was used to correct for selection bias. After balancing the 
sample groups, combined multivariate analysis of total costs and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) was performed using seemingly unrelated 
regression (SUR) models. These models were first constructed without 
interactions and, subsequently, effects of any age-stage interaction were 
analyzed.
RESULTS: The sample included 601 patients (400 by laparoscopy and 201 by open 
surgery). Crude cost-effectiveness analysis indicated that overall laparoscopy 
was cheaper and associated with higher QALYs. The SUR models without 
interactions showed that while laparoscopy remained dominant, the incremental 
effectiveness decreased to the point that it offered no statistically 
significant benefits over open surgery. In the subgroup analysis, at advanced 
stages of the disease, although none of the coefficients were significant, the 
mean incremental effectiveness (QALYs value) for laparoscopy was positive in 
younger patients and negative in older patients. Further, for advanced stages, 
the mean cost of open surgery was lower in both age subgroups but differences 
did not reach statistical significance. In early stages, laparoscopy cost was 
significantly lower in the subgroup younger than 70 and higher in the older 
subgroup.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of laparoscopy in surgery for rectal cancer 
justifies this being the standard surgical procedure in young patients and those 
at initial stages. The choice of procedure should be discussed with patients who 
are older and/or in advanced stages of the disease. Trial registration 
ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02488161.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-019-06867-y
PMID: 31140003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Qual Life Res. 2019 Sep;28(9):2513-2523. doi: 10.1007/s11136-019-02198-6.
Epub  2019 May 28.

Calibration and initial validation of a general self-efficacy item bank and 
short form for the NIH PROMIS(®).

Salsman JM(1)(2), Schalet BD(3), Merluzzi TV(4), Park CL(5), Hahn EA(3)(6), 
Snyder MA(7), Cella D(3)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Sciences and Health Policy, Wake Forest School of 
Medicine, Medical Center Boulevard, Winston-Salem, NC, 27157, USA. 
jsalsman@wakehealth.edu.
(2)Wake Forest Baptist Comprehensive Cancer Center, Medical Center Boulevard, 
Winston-Salem, NC, 27157, USA. jsalsman@wakehealth.edu.
(3)Department of Medical Social Sciences, Northwestern University Feinberg 
School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, USA.
(5)Department of Psychological Sciences, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT, 
USA.
(6)The Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center of Northwestern University, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(7)University Research Administration, The University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, 
USA.

AIMS: General self-efficacy is associated with adaptive coping and positive 
health outcomes. The Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System 
