radiographs of at least in two different positions.

DOI: 10.1186/s12891-019-2661-6
PMCID: PMC6555713
PMID: 31170965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


292. Mayo Clin Proc. 2019 Jun;94(6):942-945. doi: 10.1016/j.mayocp.2019.04.016.

Fitness Equals Longer Life Expectancy Regardless of Adiposity Levels.

Laukkanen JA(1), Kunutsor SK(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Sport and Health Sciences, University of Jyväskylä, Jyväskylä, 
Finland; Department of Internal Medicine, Central Finland Healthcare District, 
Jyväskylä, Finland; Institute of Public Health and Clinical Nutrition, 
University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland. Electronic address: 
jari.a.laukkanen@jyu.fi.
(2)National Institute for Health Research Bristol Biomedical Research Centre, 
University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust and University of Bristol, 
Bristol, UK; Translational Health Sciences, Bristol Medical School, 
Musculoskeletal Research Unit, University of Bristol, Southmead Hospital, 
Bristol, UK.

Comment on
    Mayo Clin Proc. 2019 Jun;94(6):985-994.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mayocp.2019.04.016
PMID: 31171130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Actas Urol Esp (Engl Ed). 2019 Sep;43(7):378-383. doi: 
10.1016/j.acuro.2018.10.002. Epub 2019 Jun 3.

Transition from active surveillance to observation in prostate cancer patients 
older than 75 years. A long follow-up series.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Fernández-Conejo G(1), de la Peña E(2), Hernández V(2), Pérez-Fernández E(3), 
Llorente C(2).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urología, Hospital Universitario Fundación Alcorcón, Alcorcón, 
Madrid, España. Electronic address: gfernandezc@fhalcorcon.es.
(2)Servicio de Urología, Hospital Universitario Fundación Alcorcón, Alcorcón, 
Madrid, España.
(3)Unidad de Investigación, Hospital Universitario Fundación Alcorcón, Alcorcón, 
Madrid, España.

INTRODUCTION: The world population is ageing, and life expectancy is increasing. 
This situation will have a great impact on the management of patients with 
prostate cancer, especially in those of low risk, susceptible to a conservative 
management under active surveillance (AS). Regarding these patients' profile, it 
is necessary to answer the following questions: ¿for how long to continue with 
the AS scheme?, ¿which tests will be required?, ¿is it possible to carry out a 
transition to observation with oncological safety? The objective of this work is 
to analyse those patients with prostatic cancer who have been in AS with 75 
years of age or more and assess the safety of the observation in an AS series 
with a long follow-up.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We analysed our prospective cohort of AS patients between 
the years 1999 and 2018,including those who had been in follow-up with 75 years 
or more. They were offered treatment with curative intent when there were 
progression criteria and transition to observation under the urologist's 
decision. Some intermediate risk patients were included in the analysis. 
Comorbidity changes were analysed with the Charlson comorbidity index at entry 
and exit of AS. The progression and mortality of the patients were studied 
according to the management they received.
RESULTS: From 347 AS patients, 90 patients fulfilled the afore mentioned 
criteria and 15 (16.7%) were intermediate risk. The median follow-up was 6.4 
years and 73 (81.1%) had low comorbidity (Charlson<2).There were 40 (44.4%) 
patients who left AS, 17 (18.9%) of them went to observationand the rest, 21 
(23.3%), received curative treatment. There was a significant difference in 
comorbidity, measured by the Charlson index, at entry and exit of AS (P<.05) 
among patients receiving active treatment and the ones submitted to 
observation.No case of cancer-specific death or progression was observed in the 
observation group.
CONCLUSION: The transition from an active surveillance management to observation 
of prostate cancer elderly patients, as well as the decision to carry out a 
treatment with curative intent, seems controversial. In our series, this 
transition in patients older than 75 years does not increase the oncological 
risk.

Copyright © 2019 AEU. Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.acuro.2018.10.002
PMID: 31171379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. BMJ Open. 2019 Jun 5;9(6):e025497. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2018-025497.

PRIME (Positive Transitions Through the Menopause) Study: a protocol for a 
mixed-methods study investigating the impact of the menopause on the health and 
well-being of women living with HIV in England.

Tariq S(1), Burns FM(1)(2), Gilson R(1), Sabin C(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Global Health, University College London, London, UK.
(2)Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Advances in antiretroviral therapy have transformed HIV into a 
long-term condition with near-normal life expectancy for those in whom viral 
replication is well controlled on treatment. This means that age-related events, 
including menopause, is of increasing importance in the care of people living 
with HIV. The PRIME (Positive Transitions Through the Menopause) Study aims to 
explore the impact of the menopause on the health and well-being of women living 
with HIV (WLHIV).
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The PRIME Study is a multicentre, mixed-methods 
observational study deploying a multiphase sequential design with explanatory 
and exploratory phases. Phase 1 comprised three focus group discussions with 
WLHIV. In phase 2 we aimed to administer questionnaires comprising detailed 
assessment of menopausal status and symptoms to 1500 WLHIV aged 45-60 attending 
HIV clinics in England. Phase 3 comprised semistructured interviews with a 
subsample of phase 2 participants. Ongoing quantitative follow-up of 100 
participants is planned between October 2018 and September 2019. Qualitative and 
quantitative data will be kept analytically distinct and analysed using 
appropriate methods. We will integrate quantitative and qualitative findings 
using coding matrices.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The PRIME Study has ethical approval from the South 
East Coast-Surrey Research Ethics Committee on behalf of all National Health 
Service (NHS) sites, and approval from University College London Research Ethics 
Committee for qualitative work conducted in non-NHS sites. In conjunction with 
the study Expert Advisory Group (which includes WLHIV), we have drafted a 
dissemination strategy that takes into account a wide range of stakeholders, 
including patients, policy makers and healthcare providers. This includes at 
least five empirical research papers to be submitted to peer-reviewed journals, 
as well as an accessible report aimed primarily at a non-technical audience 
(published in May 2018 and launched at a live-streamed event). Both quantitative 
and qualitative data are held by the PRIME Study team and are available by 
request.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2019. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2018-025497
PMCID: PMC6561408
PMID: 31171548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: ST has previously received 
a travel bursary funded by Janssen-Cilag through the British HIV Association, 
and speaker honoraria and funding for preparation of educational materials from 
Gilead Sciences. ST, FMB and CS are members of the steering group of SWIFT, a 
networking group for people involved in research in HIV and women, funded by 
Bristol-Myers Squibb. CS has received funding for membership in Data Safety and 
Monitoring Boards, Advisory Boards, speaker panels and for preparation of 
educational materials from Gilead Sciences, ViiV Healthcare and Janssen-Cilag. 
FMB has received consultancy fees and conference support from Gilead Sciences.


295. World J Gastrointest Surg. 2019 May 27;11(5):247-260. doi: 
10.4240/wjgs.v11.i5.247.

Prediction of overall survival following colorectal cancer surgery in elderly 
patients.

Seow-En I(1), Tan WJ(2), Dorajoo SR(3), Soh SHL(4), Law YC(4), Park SY(5), Choi 
GS(5), Tan WS(6), Tang CL(6), Chew MH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore 
169608, Singapore. isaac.seow.en@singhealth.com.sg.
(2)Department of General Surgery, Sengkang General Hospital, Singapore 544886, 
Singapore.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, National University of Singapore, Singapore 117559, 
Singapore.
(4)Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore 
117597, Singapore.
(5)Colorectal Cancer Center, Kyungpook National University Chilgok Hospital, 
Kyungpook National University School of Medicine, Daegu 702-210, South Korea.
(6)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore 
169608, Singapore.

BACKGROUND: With advanced age and chronic illness, the life expectancy of a 
patient with colorectal cancer (CRC) becomes less dependent on the malignant 
disease and more on their pre-morbid condition. Justifying major surgery for 
these elderly patients can be challenging. An accurate tool demonstrating 
post-operative survival probability would be useful for surgeons and their 
patients.
AIM: To integrate clinically significant prognostic factors relevant to elective 
colorectal surgery in the elderly into a validated pre-operative scoring system.
METHODS: In this retrospective cohort study, patients aged 70 and above who 
underwent surgery for CRC at Singapore General Hospital between 1 January 2005 
and 31 December 2012 were identified from a prospectively maintained database. 
Patients with evidence of metastatic disease, and those who underwent emergency 
surgery or had surgery for benign colorectal conditions were excluded from the 
analysis. The primary outcome was overall 3-year overall survival (OS) following 
surgery. A multivariate model predicting survival was derived and validated 
against an equivalent external surgical cohort from Kyungpook National 
University Chilgok Hospital, South Korea. Statistical analyses were performed 
using Stata/MP Version 15.1.
RESULTS: A total of 1267 patients were identified for analysis. The median 
post-operative length of stay was 8 [interquartile range (IQR) 6-12] d and 
median follow-up duration was 47 (IQR 19-75) mo. Median OS was 78 (IQR 65-85) 
mo. Following multivariate analysis, the factors significant for predicting 
overall mortality were serum albumin < 35 g/dL, serum carcinoembryonic antigen ≥ 
20 µg/L, T stage 3 or 4, moderate tumor cell differentiation or worse, mucinous 
histology, rectal tumors, and pre-existing chronic obstructive lung disease. 
Advanced age alone was not found to be significant. The Korean cohort consisted 
of 910 patients. The Singapore cohort exhibited a poorer OS, likely due to a 
higher proportion of advanced cancers. Despite the clinicopathologic 
differences, there was successful validation of the model following 
recalibration. An interactive online calculator was designed to facilitate 
post-operative survival prediction, available at http://bit.ly/sgh_crc. The main 
limitation of the study was selection bias, as patients who had undergone 
surgery would have tended to be physiologically fitter.
CONCLUSION: This novel scoring system generates an individualized survival 
probability following colorectal resection and can assist in the decision-making 
process. Validation with an external population strengthens the generalizability 
of this model.

DOI: 10.4240/wjgs.v11.i5.247
PMCID: PMC6536886
PMID: 31171956

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: The authors have 
no conflicts of interest to declare.


296. Eur J Health Econ. 2019 Sep;20(7):1063-1077. doi:
10.1007/s10198-019-01077-8.  Epub 2019 Jun 6.

Value of a QALY and VSI estimated with the chained approach.

Olofsson S(1)(2), Gerdtham UG(3)(4)(5), Hultkrantz L(6), Persson U(3).

Author information:
(1)The Swedish Institute for Health Economics (IHE), IHE Box 2127, 220 02, Lund, 
Sweden. so@ihe.se.
(2)Health Economics Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences, Malmö, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden. so@ihe.se.
(3)The Swedish Institute for Health Economics (IHE), IHE Box 2127, 220 02, Lund, 
Sweden.
(4)Health Economics Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences, Malmö, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(5)Department of Economics, School of Economics and Management, Lund University, 
Lund, Sweden.
(6)School of Business, Örebro University, Örebro, Sweden.

The value of a quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) and the value of a statistical 
injury (VSI) are important measures within health economics and transport 
economics. Several studies have, therefore, estimated people's willingness to 
pay (WTP) for these estimates, but most results show scale insensitivity. The 
'original' chained approach (CA) is a method developed to mitigate this problem 
by combining the contingent valuation (CV) with standard gamble (SG). In 
contrast to the version of the CA applied by the previous research of the WTP 
for a QALY, the original version allows the value of major health gains to be 
estimated without having the respondents express their WTP directly. The 
objective of this study was to estimate the value of a QALY and VSI in the 
context of non-fatal road traffic accidents using the original CA to test if the 
approach, applied to a wide range of health gains, is able to derive valid 
estimates and a constant value of a QALY which the previous research has not 
been able to show. Data were collected from a total of 800 individuals in the 
Swedish adult general population using two web-based questionnaires. The values 
of a QALY based on trimmed estimates were close to constant at €300,000 
irrespective of the size of the QALY gain. The study shows that the original CA 
method may be a valid method to estimate the value of a QALY and VSI for major 
health losses. It also supports the use of a higher threshold value for a QALY 
than that which is currently applied by several health technology assessment 
agencies in different countries.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-019-01077-8
PMID: 31172400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Disabil Rehabil Assist Technol. 2020 Nov;15(8):871-877. doi: 
10.1080/17483107.2019.1621955. Epub 2019 Jun 7.

Rehabilitation evaluation of the newly developed polymeric based passive 
polycentric knee joint.

Arun S(1)(2), Marbaniang B(3), Borgohain B(3), Kanagaraj S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology 
Guwahati, Guwahati, India.
(2)Centre for Societal Missions and Special Technologies, CSIR National 
Aerospace Laboratories, Bangalore, India.
(3)Department of Orthopeadics, The North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional 
Institute of Health and Medical Sciences (NEIGRIHMS), Shillong, India.

Objective: The lower limb amputation is one of the major concerns for the 
amputee's daily life and the trans-femoral (TF) amputation is being paid a lot 
of attention because of its functional requirement in flexion-extension motion. 
Though significant progress has been made for the development of high end 
prosthetic knee joint, the affordability of the same is still a great concern. 
Thus, a passive polycentric knee joint was developed and the health related 
quality of life (HRQL) before and after the fixation of the prosthesis, and 
performance of the same were studied.Design: After 6 months of fixation, the 
HRQL and performance of the prosthetic device were evaluated.Results: The HRQL 
after the fixation was found to be increased, where the improvement on the 
physical and mental score was found to be 49 and 46%, respectively, in 
comparison with pre-fixation stage. The global score (G) for the prosthetic 
function was found to be 63, which confirmed the increased performance of the 
prosthesis.Conclusions: The improved HRQL and G of prosthetic performance 
confirmed the enhanced performance of the prosthesis. It is concluded that the 
developed passive polycentric knee joint could be explored in large scale for 
the TF amputees.Implications for rehabilitationThe above knee (AK) amputation is 
a surgical interference that severs the thigh segment between the knee and hip 
joints.The above knee prosthesis consists of a socket, knee joint, pylon and 
foot.The artificial prosthetic knee joint imitates the functions of human knee 
to achieve the flexion-extension motion of the above knee amputee.The 
satisfaction of the amputees with the usage of the existing artificial 
prosthetic knee joint is still a concern. Hence, a passive prosthetic knee joint 
was developed and its effect on the quality of life of trans-femoral amputee was 
evaluated using health related quality of life (HRQL) before and after the 
fixation of the prosthesisThe HRQL after the fixation was found to be increased 
in comparison with pre-fixation stage.The global score for the prosthetic 
function was also found to be increased which confirmed the increased 
performance of the prosthesis.It is anticipated that the developed knee joint is 
expected to make huge impact due to its function, performance and affordability.

DOI: 10.1080/17483107.2019.1621955
PMID: 31172818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Oper Dent. 2020 Mar/Apr;45(2):151-162. doi: 10.2341/18-156-L. Epub 2019 Jun
7.

Clinical Evaluation of a Chairside Amalgam Separator to Meet Environmental 
Protection Agency Dental Wastewater Regulatory Compliance.

Olivera DS, Morgan MT, Tewolde SN, Botts EC, Horvath FP, Hamlin NJ.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to evaluate the performance of a 
commercially available chairside amalgam separator (CAS) in a clinical setting 
in which a relatively high number of amalgam restorations are placed. 
Performance parameters investigated included service life, amalgam collected, 
mercury concentrations in effluent, and solids retention efficiency.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: CASs were tested per International Organization of 
Standardization (ISO) 11143:2008 prior to installation in a military dental 
treatment facility and after removal from service (n=4) in order to confirm 
compliance with the recently enacted United States Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) Effluent Limitations Guidelines and Standards for the Dental 
Category. During the units' time in service, biweekly effluent grab samples were 
collected from the high-volume evacuation system of each chair (n=6) and 
analyzed for total mercury concentration by inductively coupled plasma mass 
spectrometry (ICP-MS). The mean total accumulated solids at the end of service 
life (n=6) was determined for potential design optimization. The service life 
expectancy in a military dental treatment facility was determined in terms of 
calendar and workdays. Procedural data were collected to determine the daily 
mean number of amalgam surfaces placed during the service life of each chairside 
amalgam separator (n=9).
RESULTS: The CAS evaluated met minimum EPA compliance requirements when used in 
a military dental treatment facility. The solids removal efficiency at the end 
of service life was 99.82% ± 0.14% (n=4). The mean service life (n=8) was 131.6 
± 45.1 calendar days (67.1±37.6 workdays). Effluent mercury concentrations 
ranged from 0.05 to 11.93 mg/L. Total solids accumulated in each CAS (n=6) at 
the end of service life was 195.4 ± 63.4 g. The mean number of amalgam surfaces 
placed per workday during the service life span of each CAS was 8.4 ± 1.4.

DOI: 10.2341/18-156-L
PMID: 31172872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Palliat Med. 2019 Sep;33(8):1080-1090. doi: 10.1177/0269216319854013. Epub
2019  Jun 7.

How many older adults receive drugs of questionable clinical benefit near the 
end of life? A cohort study.

Morin L(1)(2), Wastesson JW(1)(2), Laroche ML(3)(4), Fastbom J(1), Johnell K(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Aging Research Center, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)2 Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)3 Centre de pharmacovigilance et de pharmaco-épidémiologie, Department of 
Pharmacology-Toxicology and Centre of Pharmacovigilance, CHU Limoges, Limoges, 
France.
(4)4 INSERM 1248, University of Limoges, CHU Limoges, Limoges, France.

Comment in
    Evid Based Nurs. 2021 Jan;24(1):12.

BACKGROUND: The high burden of disease-oriented drugs among older adults with 
limited life expectancy raises important questions about the potential futility 
of care.
AIM: To describe the use of drugs of questionable clinical benefit during the 
last 3 months of life of older adults who died from life-limiting conditions.
DESIGN: Longitudinal, retrospective cohort study of decedents. Death certificate 
data were linked to administrative and healthcare registries with national 
coverage in Sweden.
SETTING: Older adults (≥75 years) who died from conditions potentially amenable 
to palliative care between 1 January and 31 December 2015 in Sweden. We 
identified drugs of questionable clinical benefit from a set of consensus-based 
criteria.
RESULTS: A total of 58,415 decedents were included (mean age, 87.0 years). 
During their last 3 months of life, they received on average 8.9 different 
drugs. Overall, 32.0% of older adults continued and 14.0% initiated at least one 
drug of questionable clinical benefit (e.g. statins, calcium supplements, 
vitamin D, bisphosphonates, antidementia drugs). These proportions were highest 
among younger individuals (i.e. aged 75-84 years), among people who died from 
organ failure and among those with a large number of coexisting chronic 
conditions. Excluding people who died from acute and potentially unpredictable 
fatal events had little influence on the results.
CONCLUSION: A substantial share of older persons with life-limiting diseases 
receive drugs of questionable clinical benefit during their last months of life. 
Adequate training, guidance and resources are needed to rationalize and 
deprescribe drug treatments for older adults near the end of life.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216319854013
PMCID: PMC6691599
PMID: 31172885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


300. J Physiol Pharmacol. 2019 Feb;70(1). doi: 10.26402/jpp.2019.1.11. Epub 2019
Jun  3.

Serum fatty acid binding proteins as a potential biomarker in atrial 
fibrillation.

Golaszewska K(1), Harasim-Symbor E(2), Polak-Iwaniuk A(3)(4), Chabowski A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Internal Affair and Administration Ministry 
Hospital, Bialystok, Poland.
(2)Department of Physiology, Medical University of Bialystok, Bialystok, Poland. 
eharasim@umb.edu.pl.
(3)Department of Physiology, Medical University of Bialystok, Bialystok, Poland.
(4)Faculty of Health Sciences, Lomza State University of Applied Sciences, 
Lomza, Poland.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a commonly occurring arrhythmia which significantly 
reduces patients' quality of life and substantially shortens life expectancy. 
Although long chain fatty acids (LCFAs) are the basic energy substrates for 
myocardial metabolism, their excess can result in lipotoxicity, which increases 
the risk of arrhythmia. Intracellularly, LCFAs are bound by fatty acid biding 
proteins (FABPs) and this results in low level of free LCFAs in the cytoplasm. 
Based on this principle, FABPs are considered "safeguards" against overwhelming 
accumulation of esterified into different bioactive lipid fractions (e.g. 
ceramide, diacylglycerols) LCFAs. So far, several FABPs have been discovered in 
humans. Currently, in relation to cardiovascular diseases heart-type fatty acid 
binding protein (H-FABP) and adipocyte fatty acid binding protein (A-FABP) play 
significant roles. Nowadays, A-FABP is of great interest for research related 
with obesity, diabetes and coexisting disorders including cardiovascular 
diseases. Concomitantly, H-FABP is already well-established marker in the early 
diagnosis of myocardial infarction. Moreover, FABPs were assigned as a potential 
biomarker of AF in patients with de novo diagnosed arrhythmia, chronic heart 
failure (CHF), and in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. Another group of 
studies where the concentrations of plasma FABPs were analyzed are patients 
subjected to electrical cardioversion (ECV) and radio-catheter ablation therapy 
(RFA). It is worth mentioning that, in addition to traditional anti-arrhythmic 
drugs (AADs) or ECV, ablation techniques are used with good effects. Even though 
the treatment of arrhythmias is constantly developing, the maintenance of the 
sinus rhythm (SR) is still a serious problem. Therefore, it is worth looking for 
a biomarker which is suitable for the patient's treatment qualifications as well 
as assessing its effectiveness. Thus, the aim of this work is to present current 
data on the clinical significance of FABPs in terms of the development and 
treatment of AF.

DOI: 10.26402/jpp.2019.1.11
PMID: 31172970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Cytometry B Clin Cytom. 2019 Nov;96(6):521-528. doi: 10.1002/cyto.b.21790.
Epub  2019 Jun 7.

A Novel Automatic Digital Algorithm that Accurately Quantifies Steatosis in 
NAFLD on Histopathological Whole-Slide Images.

Munsterman ID(1), van Erp M(2)(3), Weijers G(4), Bronkhorst C(5), de Korte 
CL(4), Drenth JPH(1), van der Laak JAWM(2), Tjwa ETTL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Radboud University Medical 
Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Pathology, Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Microscopic Imaging Centre, Radboud Institute for Molecular Life Sciences, 
Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(4)Medical UltraSound Imaging Centre (MUSIC), Department of Radiology and 
Nuclear Medicine, Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Pathology, Jeroen Bosch Ziekenhuis's-Hertogenbosch, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Accurate assessment of hepatic steatosis is a key to grade disease 
severity in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
METHODS: We developed a digital automated quantification of steatosis on 
whole-slide images (WSIs) of liver tissue and performed a validation study. 
Hematoxylin-eosin stained liver tissue slides were digitally scanned, and 
steatotic areas were manually annotated. We identified thresholds for size and 
roundness parameters by logistic regression to discriminate steatosis from 
surrounding liver tissue. The resulting algorithm produces a steatosis 
proportionate area (SPA; ratio of steatotic area to total tissue area described 
as percentage). The software can be implemented as a Java plug-in in FIJI, in 
which digital WSI can be processed automatically using the Pathomation 
extension.
RESULTS: We obtained liver tissue specimens from 61 NAFLD patients and 18 
controls. The area under the curve of correctly classified steatosis by the 
algorithm was 0.970 (95% CI 0.968-0.973), P < 0.001. Accuracy of the algorithm 
was 91.9%, with a classification error of 8.1%. SPA correlated significantly 
with steatosis grade (Rs = 0.845, CI: 0.749-0.902, P < 0.001) and increased 
significantly with each individual steatosis grade, except between Grade 2 and 
3.
CONCLUSIONS: We have developed a novel digital analysis algorithm that 
accurately quantifies steatosis on WSIs of liver tissue. This algorithm can be 
incorporated when quantification of steatosis is warranted, such as in clinical 
trials studying efficacy of new therapeutic interventions in NAFLD. © 2019 The 
Authors. Cytometry Part B: Clinical Cytometry published by Wiley Periodicals, 
Inc. on behalf of International Clinical Cytometry Society.

© 2019 The Authors. Cytometry Part B: Clinical Cytometry published by Wiley 
Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of International Clinical Cytometry Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cyto.b.21790
PMCID: PMC6899563
PMID: 31173462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors state they have no conflicts of 
interest.


302. Am Heart J. 2019 Aug;214:77-87. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2019.04.020. Epub 2019
May 7.

Modeling the cost effectiveness and budgetary impact of Polypills for secondary 
prevention of cardiovascular disease in the United States.

Gaziano TA(1), Pandya A(2), Sy S(2), Jardim TV(3), Ogden JM(4), Rodgers A(5), 
Weinstein MC(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
MA; Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard T.H. Chan School of 
Public Health, Boston, MA. Electronic address: tgaziano@bwh.harvard.edu.
(2)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard T.H. Chan School of 
Public Health, Boston, MA.
(3)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
MA; Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard T.H. Chan School of 
Public Health, Boston, MA.
(4)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
MA.
(5)The George Institute for Global Health, Sydney, Australia.

BACKGROUND: There is underutilization of appropriate medications for secondary 
prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD).
METHODS: Usual care (UC) was compared to polypill-based care with 3 versions 
using a validated micro-simulation model in the NHANES population with prior 
CVD. UC included individual prescription of up to 4 drug classes (antiplatelet 
agents, beta-blockers, renin-angiotensin-aldosterone inhibitors and statins). 
The polypills modeled were aspirin 81 mg, atenolol 50 mg, ramipril 5 mg, and 
either simvastatin 40 mg (Polypill I), atorvastatin 80 mg (Polypill II), or 
rosuvastatin 40 mg (Polypill III). Baseline medication use and adherence came 
from United Healthcare claims data.
RESULTS: When compared to UC, there were annual reductions of 130,000 to 178,000 
myocardial infarctions and 54,000 to 74,000 strokes using Polypill I and II, 
respectively. From a health sector perspective, in incremental analysis the 
ICERs for Polypill I and II were $20,073/QALY and $21,818/QALY respectively; 
Polypill III was dominated but had a similar cost-effectiveness ratio to 
Polypill II when compared directly to usual care. From a societal perspective, 
Polypill II was cost-saving and dominated all strategies. Over a 5-year period, 
those taking Polypill I and II compared to UC saved approximately $12 and $6 
per-patient-per-year alive, respectively. Polypill II was the preferred strategy 
in 98% of runs at a willingness to pay of $50,000 in the probability sensitivity 
analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of a polypill has a favorable cost profile for secondary CVD 
prevention in the United States. Reductions in CVD-related healthcare costs 
outweighed medication cost increases on a per-patient-per-year basis, suggesting 
that a polypill would be economically advantageous to both patients and payers.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2019.04.020
PMID: 31174054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2019 Jun 6;16(11):2028. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph16112028.

Survival to Age 90 in Men: The Tromsø Study 1974-2018.

Brenn T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, UiT-The Arctic 
University of Norway, N-9019 Tromsø, Norway. tormod.brenn@uit.no.

The 738 oldest men who participated in the first survey of the population-based 
Tromsø Study (Tromsø 1) in Norway in 1974 have now had the chance to reach the 
age of 90 years. The men were also invited to subsequent surveys (Tromsø 2-7, 
1979-2016) and have been followed up for all-cause deaths. This study sought to 
investigate what could be learned from how these men have fared. The men were 
born in 1925-1928 and similar health-related data from questionnaires, physical 
examination, and blood samples are available for all surveys. Survival curves 
over various variable strata were applied to evaluate the impact of individual 
risk factors and combinations of risk factors on all-cause deaths. At the end of 
2018, 118 (16.0%) of the men had reached 90 years of age. Smoking in 1974 was 
the strongest single risk factor associated with survival, with observed 
percentages of men reaching 90 years being 26.3, 25.7, and 10.8 for never, 
former, and current smokers, respectively. Significant effects on survival were 
also found for physical inactivity, low income, being unmarried, high blood 
pressure, and high cholesterol. For men with 0-4 of these risk factors, the 
percentages reaching 90 years were 33.3, 24.9, 12.4, 14.4, and 1.5, 
respectively. Quitting smoking and increasing physical activity before 55 years 
of age improved survival significantly. Men should refrain from smoking and 
increase their physical activity, especially those with low income, those who 
are unmarried, and those with high blood pressure and high cholesterol.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph16112028
PMCID: PMC6603911
PMID: 31174416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


304. BMC Cancer. 2019 Jun 7;19(1):552. doi: 10.1186/s12885-019-5779-x.

Advantages of the net benefit regression framework for trial-based economic 
evaluations of cancer treatments: an example from the Canadian Cancer Trials 
Group CO.17 trial.

Hoch JS(1), Hay A(2), Isaranuwatchai W(2), Thavorn K(2), Leighl NB(2), Tu D(2), 
Trenaman L(2), Dewa CS(2), O'Callaghan C(2), Pater J(2), Jonker D(2), Chen 
BE(2), Mittmann N(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Policy and Management, Department of Public Health 
Sciences and Associate Director, Center for Healthcare Policy and Research, 2103 
Stockton Blvd, Sacramento, CA, 95817, USA. jshoch@ucdavis.edu.
(2)Division of Health Policy and Management, Department of Public Health 
Sciences and Associate Director, Center for Healthcare Policy and Research, 2103 
Stockton Blvd, Sacramento, CA, 95817, USA.

BACKGROUND: Economic evaluations commonly accompany trials of new treatments or 
interventions; however, regression methods and their corresponding advantages 
for the analysis of cost-effectiveness data are not widely appreciated.
METHODS: To illustrate regression-based economic evaluation, we review a 
cost-effectiveness analysis conducted by the Canadian Cancer Trials Group's 
Committee on Economic Analysis and implement net benefit regression.
RESULTS: Net benefit regression offers a simple option for cost-effectiveness 
analyses of person-level data. By placing economic evaluation in a regression 
framework, regression-based techniques can facilitate the analysis and provide 
simple solutions to commonly encountered challenges (e.g., the need to adjust 
for potential confounders, identify key patient subgroups, and/or summarize 
"challenging" findings, like when a more effective regimen has the potential to 
be cost-saving).
CONCLUSIONS: Economic evaluations of patient-level data (e.g., from a clinical 
trial) can use net benefit regression to facilitate analysis and enhance 
results.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-019-5779-x
PMCID: PMC6555934
PMID: 31174497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests. The authors take responsibility for all aspects of the study 
including design, data acquisition, analysis, interpretation, and drafting of 
the article.


305. BMC Public Health. 2019 Jun 7;19(1):706. doi: 10.1186/s12889-019-6912-0.

Access to health care for older people with intellectual disability: a modelling 
study to explore the cost-effectiveness of health checks.

Bauer A(1), Taggart L(2), Rasmussen J(3), Hatton C(4), Owen L(5), Knapp M(6).

Author information:
(1)Personal Social Services Research Unit, London School of Economics and 
Political Science, Houghton Street, London, England, WC2A 2AE, UK. 
A.bauer@lse.ac.uk.
(2)Institute of Nursing & Health Research, Ulster University, N Ireland, 
Newtownabbey, BT37 0QB, UK.
(3)Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP), 30 Euston Square, London, 
England, NW1 2FB, UK.
(4)Centre for Disability Research, Division of Health Research, Lancaster 
University, Lancaster, England, LA1 4YG, UK.
(5)National Institute for Health and Care Excellence, 10 Spring Gardens, London, 
England, SW1A 2BU, UK.
(6)Personal Social Services Research Unit, London School of Economics and 
Political Science, Houghton Street, London, England, WC2A 2AE, UK.

BACKGROUND: Whilst people with intellectual disability grow older, evidence has 
emerged internationally about the largely unmet health needs of this specific 
ageing population. Health checks have been implemented in some countries to 
address those health inequalities. Evaluations have focused on measuring process 
outcomes due to challenges measuring quality of life outcomes. In addition, the 
cost-effectiveness is currently unknown. As part of a national guideline for 
this population we sought to explore the likely cost-effectiveness of annual 
health checks in England.
METHODS: Decision-analytical Markov modelling was used to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of a strategy, in which health checks were provided for older 
people with intellectual disability, when compared with standard care. The 
approach we took was explorative. Individual models were developed for a 
selected range of health conditions, which had an expected high economic impact 
and for which sufficient evidence was available for the modelling. In each of 
the models, hypothetical cohorts were followed from 40 yrs. of age until death. 
The outcome measure was cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. 
Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) were calculated. Costs were 
assessed from a health provider perspective and expressed in 2016 GBP. Costs and 
QALYs were discounted at 3.5%. We carried out probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis. Data from published studies as well as expert opinion informed 
parameters.
RESULTS: Health checks led to a mean QALY gain of 0.074 (95% CI 0.072 to 0.119); 
and mean incremental costs of £4787 (CI 95% 4773 to 5017). For a threshold of 
£30,000 per QALY, health checks were not cost-effective (mean ICER £85,632; 95% 
CI 82,762 to 131,944). Costs of intervention needed to reduce from £258 to under 
£100 per year in order for health checks to be cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: Whilst findings need to be considered with caution as the model was 
exploratory in that it was based on assumptions to overcome evidence gaps, they 
suggest that the way health systems deliver care for vulnerable populations 
might need to be re-examined. The work was carried out as part of a national 
guideline and informed recommendations about system changes to achieve more 
equal health care provisions.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-019-6912-0
PMCID: PMC6556058
PMID: 31174506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The National Institute for Health and Care 
Excellence (NICE) funded the development of the economic model. LO is an 
employee of NICE. Her contribution to the paper was restricted to comments 
concerning the quality of reporting and did not include aspects pertinent to the 
contents of the study. LO submitted the International Committee of Medical 
Journal Editors form of disclosure for potential conflicts of interest. JR is 
Clinical Representative Dementia for the Royal College of General Practitioner, 
Advisor to Kent Surrey Sussex Academic Health Network and Independent 
Consultant. All other authors (AB, MK, LT, CH) declared no conflict of interest.


306. BMC Public Health. 2019 Jun 7;19(1):707. doi: 10.1186/s12889-019-7047-z.

Coronary heart disease and stroke disease burden attributable to fruit and 
vegetable intake in Japan: projected DALYS to 2060.

Mo X(1)(2), Gai RT(3)(4), Sawada K(5), Takahashi Y(2), Cox SE(6)(7), Nakayama 
T(2), Mori R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, National Center for Child Health and 
Development, Okura 2-10-1, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo, 157-8535, Japan.
(2)Department of Health Informatics, Kyoto University School of Public Health, 
Yoshidakonoe cho, Sakyo Ward, Kyoto, Kyoto Prefecture, 606-8501, Japan.
(3)Department of Health Policy, National Center for Child Health and 
Development, Okura 2-10-1, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo, 157-8535, Japan. 
gai-ruoyan@ipss.go.jp.
(4)Department of Empirical social Security Research, National Institute of 
Social Security and Population Research, Uchisaiwaicho 2-2-3, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 
1000011, Japan. gai-ruoyan@ipss.go.jp.
(5)Faculty of Human Life and Environmental Sciences, Nagoya Women's University, 
3 Chome-40 Shiojicho, Mizuho Ward, Nagoya, Aichi Prefecture, 467-0003, Japan.
(6)School of Tropical Medicine & Global Health, Nagasaki University, 1-14 
Bunkyomachi, Nagasaki, 852-8521, Japan.
(7)Faculty of Epidemiology & Population Health, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Fruit and vegetable consumption was considered a protective effect 
against cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases (CVDs). This study aimed to 
project the reduction in the CVD burden under different scenarios of increased 
fruit and vegetable intake in Japan by 2060.
METHODS: Population attributable fractions (PAF) were calculated by gender and 
age in 2015. The projection considered five scenarios for 2015, 2030, 2045, and 
2060: 1) a baseline of no changes in intake; 2) a moderate increase in fruit 
intake (extra 50 g/day or 1/2 serving); 3) an high increase in fruit intake 
(extra 100 g/day or 1 serving); 4) a moderate increase in vegetable intake 
(extra 70 g/day or 1 serving); and 5) an high increase in vegetable intake 
(extra 140 g/day or 2 servings). Potentially preventable disability-adjusted 
life years (DALYs) for CVDs were estimated for each scenario. Monte Carlo 
simulations were performed to calculate the 95% confidence intervals of the 
estimates.
RESULTS: Across all age groups, men had a higher daily vegetable intake than 
women (292.7 g/d > 279.3 g/d) but a lower daily fruit intake 
(99.3 g/d < 121.0 g/d). Comparing with recommended intake level (350 g/d of 
vegetable and 200 g/d of fruit), the total CVD burden was estimated to be 
302,055 DALYs attributable to inadequate fruit consumption in 2015, which 
accounted for 12.6% of the total CVD burden (vegetable: 202,651 DALYs; 8.5%). In 
2060, the percentage of the CVD burden due to insufficient intake of fruit is 
estimated to decrease to 7.9% under the moderate increase scenario and to 
decrease to 4.5% under the high increase scenario (vegetable: 5.4%; 2.4%).
CONCLUSIONS: The study suggested that a relevantly large percentage of the CVD 
burden can be alleviated by promoting even modest increases in fruit and 
vegetable consumption in Japan.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-019-7047-z
PMCID: PMC6555950
PMID: 31174509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


307. J Biol Chem. 2019 Jul 26;294(30):11473-11485. doi: 10.1074/jbc.RA119.007679.
 Epub 2019 Jun 7.

Virion-associated, host-derived DHX9/RNA helicase A enhances the processivity of 
HIV-1 reverse transcriptase on genomic RNA.

Brady S(1), Singh G(2), Bolinger C(3), Song Z(1), Boeras I(2), Weng K(1), Trent 
B(1), Brown WC(4), Singh K(5)(6), Boris-Lawrie K(7)(3), Heng X(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri 65211.
(2)Department of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, University of Minnesota, 
Saint Paul, Minnesota 55108.
(3)Department of Veterinary Biosciences, Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio 
432105.
(4)Center for Structural Biology, Life Sciences Institute, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109.
(5)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, University of Missouri, 
Columbia, Missouri 65211.
(6)Bond Life Sciences Center, University of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri 65211.
(7)Department of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, University of Minnesota, 
Saint Paul, Minnesota 55108 kbl@umn.edu.
(8)Department of Biochemistry, University of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri 65211 
hengx@missouri.edu.

DHX9/RNA helicase A (RHA) is a host RNA helicase that participates in many 
critical steps of the HIV-1 life cycle. It co-assembles with the viral RNA 
genome into the capsid core. Virions deficient in RHA are less infectious as a 
result of reduced reverse transcription efficiency, demonstrating that the 
virion-associated RHA promotes reverse transcription before the virion gains 
access to the new host's RHA. Here, we quantified reverse-transcription 
intermediates in HIV-1-infected T cells to clarify the mechanism by which RHA 
enhances HIV-1 reverse transcription efficiency. Consistently, purified 
recombinant human RHA promoted reverse transcription efficiency under in vitro 
conditions that mimic the early reverse transcription steps prior to capsid core 
uncoating. We did not observe RHA-mediated structural remodeling of the 
tRNALys3-viral RNA-annealed complex. RHA did not enhance the DNA synthesis rate 
until incorporation of the first few nucleotides, suggesting that RHA 
participates primarily in the elongation phase of reverse transcription. 
Pre-steady-state and steady-state kinetic studies revealed that RHA has little 
impact on the kinetics of single-nucleotide incorporation. Primer extension 
assays performed in the presence of trap dsDNA disclosed that RHA enhances the 
processivity of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase (RT). The biochemical assays used 
here effectively reflected and explained the low RT activity in HIV-1 virions 
produced from RHA-depleted cells. Moreover, RT activity in our assays indicated 
that RHA in HIV-1 virions is required for the efficient catalysis of (-)cDNA 
synthesis during viral infection before capsid uncoating. Our study identifies 
RHA as a processivity factor of HIV-1 RT.

© 2019 Brady et al.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.RA119.007679
PMCID: PMC6663884
PMID: 31175158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest with the contents of this article


308. Drugs Aging. 2019 Aug;36(8):675-685. doi: 10.1007/s40266-019-00683-8.

Going Beyond the Guidelines in Individualising the Use of Antihypertensive Drugs 
in Older Patients.

Scott IA(1)(2), Hilmer SN(3)(4), Le Couteur DG(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology, Princess Alexandra Hospital, 
Ipswich Road, Brisbane, QLD, 4102, Australia. ian.scott@health.qld.gov.au.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, Australia. 
ian.scott@health.qld.gov.au.
(3)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Royal North Shore Hospital, Reserve 
Road, St Leonards, NSW, 2065, Australia.
(4)Sydney Medical School and Kolling Institute of Medical Research, University 
of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(5)Centre for Education and Research on Ageing, University of Sydney, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia.
(6)Concord Hospital, Hospital Road, Concord, NSW, 2139, Australia.

Hypertension is commonly diagnosed in older patients, with increasing 
cardiovascular (CV) risk as systolic blood pressure (BP) increases. Maximising 
CV risk reduction must be reconciled with minimising the risk of 
treatment-related harms and burden, especially among frail, multi-morbid and 
older old patients who have been excluded from most randomised trials. 
Contemporary clinical guidelines, based on such trials, differ in their 
recommendations as to threshold levels warranting treatment with 
antihypertensive drugs (AHDs) and target levels that should be achieved. In 
optimising AHD prescribing in older patients, we propose the following decision 
framework: decide therapeutic goals in accordance with patient characteristics 
and preferences; estimate absolute CV risk; measure and profile BP accurately in 
ways that account for lability in BP levels and minimise error in BP 
measurement; determine threshold and target BP levels likely to confer net 
benefit, taking into account age, co-morbidities, frailty and cognitive 
function; and consider situations that warrant AHD deprescribing on the basis of 
potential current or future harm. In applying this framework to older persons, 
and based on a review of relevant randomised trials and observational studies, 
individuals most likely to benefit from treating systolic BP to no less than 
130 mmHg are those of any age who are fit and have high baseline systolic BP 
(≥ 160 mmHg); high CV risk, i.e. established CV disease or risk of CV events 
exceeding 20% at 10 years; previous stroke or transient ischaemic attack; heart 
failure; and stage 3-4 chronic kidney disease with proteinuria. Individuals most 
likely to be harmed from treating BP to target systolic < 140 mmHg are those who 
have no CV disease and aged over 80 years; moderate to severe frailty, cognitive 
impairment or functional limitations; labile BP and/or history of orthostatic 
hypotension, syncope and falls; or life expectancy < 12 months. Treatment should 
never be so intense as to reduce diastolic BP to < 60 mmHg in any older person. 
At a time when guidelines are calling for less conservative management of 
hypertension in all age groups, we contend that a more temperate approach, such 
as that offered here and based on the totality of available evidence, may assist 
in maximising net benefit in older patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s40266-019-00683-8
PMID: 31175614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Wiad Lek. 2019;72(5 cz 1):868-876.

Ten indicators which characterize medical-demographic processes in adjacent 
regions of Ukraine and Poland.

Grshybowskyj JL(1), Smiianov VA(2), Myronyuk IM(3), Lyubinets OV(1).

Author information:
(1)Danylo Halytsky Lviv National Medical University, Lviv, Ukraine.
(2)Sumy State University, Sumy, Ukraine.
(3)Uzhhorod National University, Uzhhorod, Ukraine.

OBJECTIVE: Introduction: Medical-demographic processes are one of the main signs 
of life quality, the level of socio-economic development of society. The aim of 
the work is to compare and evaluate the medical-demographic processes in the two 
neighboring regions of neighboring countries, due to their geographical 
proximity, the ratio of the size of the territories and the population.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Materials and methods: The study was conducted on the 
basis of official statistics published by the State Statistics Service of 
Ukraine and the Main Department of Statistics in Poland, the depth of the 
research - 2008-2017, the scope of the study - Lviv region of Ukraine and the 
Podkarpackie region of Poland. The system approach, demographic and 
medical-statistical methods were used in the work.
RESULTS: Review: In both territories the population aging is going on, 
illustrated by indicators such as the age structure of the population, the level 
of demographic load and the average age of the population. Data on population 
reproduction in both regions is narrowed, indicating a prevalence of mortality 
over births. The average life expectancy in the Podkarpackie region is higher 
and has a tendency for further growth. In the Lviv oblast, the average life 
expectancy is also growing, due to the positive trend towards a decrease in 
overall mortality, but is offset by a decline in fertility and high infant 
mortality and mortality rates, especially from circulatory system pathology.
CONCLUSION: Conclusions: The analysis of our 10 indicators showed the 
heterogeneity of medical and demographic processes in the two neighboring 
regions of neighboring countries, despite their geographical proximity, the 
ratio of the size of the territories and the population.

PMID: 31175787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Life Sci. 2019 Aug 15;231:116531. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2019.06.006. Epub 2019
Jun  5.

Analysis of CRISPR/Cas system of Proteus and the factors affected the functional 
mechanism.

Qu D(1), Lu S(1), Wang P(1), Jiang M(1), Yi S(2), Han J(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Food Science and Biotechnology, Zhejiang Gongshang University, 
Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310018, China.
(2)Jiangxi Animal Husbandry Technology Extension Station, Nanchang 330046, 
China.
(3)School of Food Science and Biotechnology, Zhejiang Gongshang University, 
Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310018, China. Electronic address: jianzhonghan1@163.com.

BACKGROUND: The Proteus is one of the most common human and animal pathogens. 
Clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats and CRISPR-associated 
proteins (CRISPR/Cas) are inheritable genetic elements found in a variety of 
archaea and bacteria in the evolution, providing immune function against foreign 
invasion.
OBJECTIVES: To analyze the characteristics and functions of the CRISPR/Cas 
system in Proteus genomes, as well as the internal and external factors 
affecting the system.
METHODS: CRISPR loci were identified and divided into groups based on the repeat 
sequence in 96 Proteus strains by identification. Compared the RNA secondary 
structure and minimum free energy of CRISPR loci through bioinformatics, the 
evolution of cas genes, and the effects of related elements were also discussed.
RESULTS: 85 CRISPR loci were identified and divided into six groups based on the 
sequence of repeats, and the more stable the secondary structure of RNA, the 
smaller the minimum free energy, the fewer base mutations in the repeat, the 
more stable the CRISPR and the more complete the evolution of the system. In 
addition, Cas1 gene can be a symbol to distinguish species to some extent. Of 
all the influencing factors, CRISPR/Cas had the greatest impact on plasmids.
CONCLUSIONS: This study examined the diversity of CRISPR/Cas system in Proteus 
and found statistically significant positive/negative correlations between 
variety factors (the RNA stability, free energy, etc.) and the CRISPR locus, 
which played a vital role in regulating the CRISPR/Cas system.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2019.06.006
PMID: 31175856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Diabetes Care. 2019 Sep;42(9):1615-1623. doi: 10.2337/dci19-0002. Epub 2019
Jun  8.

Controversies for Glucose Control Targets in Type 2 Diabetes: Exposing the 
Common Ground.

Home P(1).

Author information:
(1)Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, U.K. philip.home@newcastle.ac.uk.

Glycated hemoglobin targets have been given in guidelines for the last three 
decades, mostly without change at around 6.5-7.0% (47-53 mmol/mol). 
