mais n’étaient pas associés à des différences de propriétés de tension des 
cheveux. La perception de soi d'avoir des cheveux forts ou en bonne santé semble 
plus associée à une plus grande surface transversale que toute différence réelle 
dans la résistance des cheveux.

© 2019 Society of Cosmetic Scientists and the Société Française de Cosmétologie.

DOI: 10.1111/ics.12569
PMID: 31418888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Am J Manag Care. 2019 Jul;25(10 Suppl):S182-S187.

Managed care opportunities and approaches to supporting appropriate selection of 
treatment for sight preservation.

Cannon E(1).

Author information:
(1)Vice President, Pharmacy Benefits, SelectHealth, Murray, UT. Email: 
eric.cannon@selecthealth.org.

When evaluating the impact of vision-destroying diseases, pharmacologic 
therapies represent a significant cost to patients, insurance providers, and 
society. Currently, up to 11 million people in the United States have some form 
of age-related macular degeneration (AMD), which is one of the leading causes of 
vision loss in older Americans. Ophthalmologists have administered more than 6 
million intravitreal injections of aflibercept, bevacizumab, pegaptanib, and 
ranibizumab last year. Comprehensive assessment requires managed care 
administrators and clinicians to understand the direct and indirect costs of 
vision loss as well as the comparative safety and efficacy profiles for each 
agent. In AMD, it is critical to understand the established and emerging 
treatment patterns.

PMID: 31419089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Am J Manag Care. 2019 Aug;25(8):379-386.

The potential impact of CAR T-cell treatment delays on society.

Thornton Snider J, Brauer M, Kee R(1), Batt K, Karaca-Mandic P, Zhang J, Goldman 
DP.

Author information:
(1)Precision Health Economics, 1999 Harrison St, Ste 1420, Oakland, CA 94612. 
Email: rebecca.kee@precisionxtract.com.

OBJECTIVES: To date, breakthrough chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell 
therapies, such as tisagenlecleucel, indicated for pediatric acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (pALL) and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), and axicabtagene 
ciloleucel, indicated for DLBCL, although clinically effective, have been 
limited by treatment delays. Our study measured the social value of CAR T-cell 
therapy (CAR T) for relapsed or refractory pALL and DLBCL in the United States 
and quantified social value lost due to treatment delays.
STUDY DESIGN: We used an economic framework for therapy valuation, measuring 
social value as the sum of consumer surplus and manufacturer profit. Consumer 
surplus is the difference between the value of health gains from a therapy and 
its incremental cost, while accounting for indirect costs and benefits to 
patients.
METHODS: For 20 incident cohorts of pALL (n = 20 × 400 = 8000) and DLBCL (n = 20 
× 5902 = 118,040), we quantified patient value, calculated as the value of 
additional quality-adjusted life-years gained with CAR T, minus the incremental 
cost of CAR T compared with standard of care (SOC). We calculated manufacturer 
profits using a range of production costs given uncertainties in the production 
process. Patient value and manufacturer profits were summed to obtain total 
social value. We measured social value lost from treatment delays, assuming that 
patients received the SOC while awaiting CAR T-cell treatment.
RESULTS: Depending on production costs, as much as $6.5 billion and $34.8 
billion in social value was generated for patients with pALL and DLBCL, 
respectively. However, with 1, 2, or 6 months of treatment delay (assuming 
$200,000 production costs), the pALL population lost 9.8%, 36.2%, and 67.3% of 
social value, respectively, whereas the DLBCL population lost 4.2%, 11.5%, and 
46.0%, relative to no delay.
CONCLUSIONS: The social value of CAR T is significantly limited by treatment 
delays. Efficient payment mechanisms, adequate capital, and payment policy 
reform are urgently needed to increase patient access and maximize the value of 
CAR T.

PMID: 31419095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Scand J Work Environ Health. 2020 Jan 1;46(1):77-84. doi:
10.5271/sjweh.3843.  Epub 2019 Aug 16.

Educational differences in duration of working life and loss of paid employment: 
working life expectancy in The Netherlands.

Robroek SJ(1), Nieboer D, Järvholm B, Burdorf A.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam, Department of Public Health, PO 
Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, the Netherlands. s.robroek@erasmusmc.nl.

Objectives This study aims to provide insight into educational differences in 
duration of working life by working life expectancy (WLE) and working years lost 
(WYL) through disability benefits and other non-employment states in the 
Netherlands. Methods Monthly information on employment status of the Dutch 
population (N=4 999 947) between 16 and 66 years from 2001‒2015 was used to 
estimate working life courses and loss of working years for specific 
non-employment states. Across educational groups, bi-directional transitions 
between paid employment and non-employment states were calculated. Using a 
multistate model, the WLE and WYL at age 16, 30, 50 and up to 66 years as 
statutory retirement age were estimated for each educational group, stratified 
by gender. Results Low-educated men and women had a 7.3 (men) and 9.9 (women) 
years lower WLE at age 30 than high-educated men and women. Among low-educated 
men, 3.4 working years were lost due to disability benefit compared to 0.8 among 
high-educated men. Low-educated women lost 3.0 working years due to disability 
benefit compared to 1.4 among high-educated women. Conclusions There are large 
educational inequalities over the course of working life. Among low-educated 
workers, more working years are lost due to unemployment, no income, and 
especially disability benefits. The latter reflects large educational 
inequalities in health and working conditions. The metrics of WLE and WYL 
provide useful insights into the life-course perspective on working careers.

DOI: 10.5271/sjweh.3843
PMID: 31419303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Yearb Med Inform. 2019 Aug;28(1):135-137. doi: 10.1055/s-0039-1677929. Epub
2019  Aug 16.

Contributions on Clinical Decision Support from the 2018 Literature.

Koutkias V(1), Bouaud J(2)(3); Section Editors for the IMIA Yearbook Section on 
Decision Support.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Applied Biosciences, Centre for Research & Technology Hellas, 
Thermi, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(2)AP-HP, Delegation for Clinical Research and Innovation, Paris, France.
(3)Sorbonne Université, Université Paris 13, Sorbonne Paris Cité, INSERM, UMR_S 
1142, LIMICS, Paris, France.

OBJECTIVES: To summarize recent research and select the best papers published in 
2018 in the field of computerized clinical decision support for the Decision 
Support section of the International Medical Informatics Association (IMIA) 
yearbook.
METHODS: A literature review was performed by searching two bibliographic 
databases for papers referring to clinical decision support systems (CDSSs). The 
aim was to identify a list of candidate best papers from the retrieved 
bibliographic records, which were then peer-reviewed by external reviewers. A 
consensus meeting of the IMIA editorial team finally selected the best papers on 
the basis of all reviews and the section editors' evaluation.
RESULTS: Among 1,148 retrieved articles, 15 best paper candidates were selected, 
the review of which resulted in the selection of four best papers. The first 
paper introduces a deep learning model for estimating short-term life expectancy 
(>3 months) of metastatic cancer patients by analyzing free-text clinical notes 
in electronic medical records, while maintaining the temporal visit sequence. 
The second paper takes note that CDSSs become routinely integrated in health 
information systems and compares statistical anomaly detection models to 
identify CDSS malfunctions which, if remain unnoticed, may have a negative 
impact on care delivery. The third paper fairly reports on lessons learnt from 
the development of an oncology CDSS using artificial intelligence techniques and 
from its assessment in a large US cancer center. The fourth paper implements a 
preference learning methodology for detecting inconsistencies in clinical 
practice guidelines and illustrates the applicability of the proposed 
methodology to antibiotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Three of the four best papers rely on data-driven methods, and one 
builds on a knowledge-based approach. While there is currently a trend for 
data-driven decision support, the promising results of such approaches still 
need to be confirmed by the adoption of these systems and their routine use.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0039-1677929
PMCID: PMC6697519
PMID: 31419825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts of 
interest in this work.


106. Forum Health Econ Policy. 2012 Apr 
18;15(2):/j/fhep.2012.15.issue-2/1558-9544.1306/1558-9544.1306.xml. doi: 
10.1515/1558-9544.1306.

The Option Value of Innovation.

Thornton Snider J(1), Romley JA(2), Vogt WB(3), Philipson TJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Precision Health Economics,julia@precisionhealtheconomics.com.
(2)University of Southern California,romley@healthpolicy.usc.edu.
(3)University of Georgia,wbvogt@uga.edu.
(4)University of Chicago,t-philipson@uchicago.edu.

Standard techniques of cost effectiveness analysis measure a technology's 
benefits in terms of expected life years (or quality-adjusted life years) gained 
at today's life expectancies. However, this approach ignores the gains which 
derive from the possibility that a health technology allows an individual to 
survive long enough to benefit from other technological innovations which raise 
life expectancy (and quality of life) in the future. Borrowing a term from the 
finance literature, we refer to this source of value as the "option value" of 
innovation. We explain where this value comes from and how to calculate it in a 
variety of standard cost effectiveness analysis contexts. We provide a 
proof-of-concept using the example of the drug tamoxifen, which delayed the 
onset of breast cancer for some patients until more effective adjuvant treatment 
was available. We find that incorporating option value can increase the 
conventionally estimated value of tamoxifen with better adjuvant treatment by 
nearly a quarter (from $200,000 to $248,000 for those who initiated tamoxifen in 
1999). We expect similar results for other drugs in therapeutic areas of rapid 
technological advancement.

DOI: 10.1515/1558-9544.1306
PMID: 31419850


107. Forum Health Econ Policy. 2013 Jan 1;16(1):1-33. doi:
10.1515/fhep-2012-0032.

The Effect of Pharmaceutical Innovation on Longevity: Patient Level Evidence 
from the 1996-2002 Medical Expenditure Panel Survey and Linked Mortality 
Public-use Files.

Lichtenberg FR(1).

Author information:
(1)Columbia University, 504 Uris Hall, 3022 Broadway, New York, 10027 NY, USA.

This study uses patient-level data to analyze the effect of technological change 
embodied in pharmaceuticals on the longevity of elderly Americans. Previous 
patient-level studies could not control for important patient attributes such as 
education, income, and race; they did not provide estimates of the effect of 
using newer drugs on life expectancy, or of the overall cost-effectiveness of 
new drugs relative to old drugs; and they were not based on nationally 
representative samples of individuals. Our data, primarily derived from the 
Medical Expenditure Panel Survey and the Linked Mortality Public-use Files, 
enable us to overcome those limitations. We investigate the effect of the 
vintage (year of U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval) of the prescription 
drugs used by an individual on his or her survival and medical expenditure, 
controlling for a number of demographic characteristics and indicators and 
determinants of health status. When we control only for age, sex, and interview 
year, we estimate that a 1-year increase in drug vintage increases life 
expectancy by 0.52%. Controlling for a much more extensive set of other 
attributes (the mean year the person started taking his or her medications, and 
dummy variables for activity limitations, race, education, family income as a 
percent of the poverty line, insurance coverage, Census region, body mass index, 
smoking, and more than 100 medical conditions) has virtually no effect on the 
estimate of the effect of drug vintage on life expectancy. Between 1996 and 
2003, the mean vintage of prescription drugs increased by 6.6 years. This is 
estimated to have increased the life expectancy of elderly Americans by 
0.41-0.47 years. This suggests that not less than two-thirds of the 0.6-year 
increase in the life expectancy of elderly Americans during 1996-2003 was due to 
the increase in drug vintage. The 1996-2003 increase in drug vintage is also 
estimated to have increased annual drug expenditure per elderly American by 
$207, and annual total medical expenditure per elderly American by $218. This 
implies that the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (cost per life-year 
gained) of pharmaceutical innovation was about $12,900. This estimate of the 
cost per life-year gained from the use of newer drugs is a small fraction of 
leading economists' estimates of the value of (willingness to pay for) an 
additional year of life. It is also consistent with estimates from clinical 
trials.

DOI: 10.1515/fhep-2012-0032
PMID: 31419866


108. Forum Health Econ Policy. 2017 Jan 
20;20(2):/j/fhep.2017.20.issue-2/fhep-2016-0011/fhep-2016-0011.xml. doi: 
10.1515/fhep-2016-0011.

The Long-Term Impact of Price Controls in Medicare Part D.

Moreno G(1), van Eijndhoven E(1), Benner J(1), Sullivan J(1).

Author information:
(1)Precision Health Economics, Los Angeles, CA,USA.

Price controls for prescription drugs are once again at the forefront of policy 
discussions in the United States. Much of the focus has been on the potential 
short-term savings - in terms of lower spending - although evidence suggests 
price controls can dampen innovation and adversely affect long-term population 
health. This paper applies the Health Economics Medical Innovation Simulation, a 
microsimulation of older Americans, to estimate the long-term impacts of 
government price setting in Medicare Part D, using pricing in the Federal 
Veterans Health Administration program as a proxy. We find that VA-style pricing 
policies would save between $0.1 trillion and $0.3 trillion (US$2015) in 
lifetime drug spending for people born in 1949-2005. However, such savings come 
with social costs. After accounting for innovation spillovers, we find that 
price setting in Part D reduces the number of new drug introductions by as much 
as 25% relative to the status quo. As a result, life expectancy for the cohort 
born in 1991-1995 is reduced by almost 2 years relative to the status quo. 
Overall, we find that price controls would reduce lifetime welfare by $5.7 to 
$13.3 trillion (US$2015) for the US population born in 1949-2005.

DOI: 10.1515/fhep-2016-0011
PMID: 31419906


109. BMC Public Health. 2019 Aug 16;19(1):1125. doi: 10.1186/s12889-019-7473-y.

Psychosocial working conditions across working life may predict late-life 
physical function: a follow-up cohort study.

Nilsen C(1), Andel R(2)(3)(4), Darin-Mattsson A(5), Kåreholt I(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Aging Research Center (ARC), Karolinska Institutet/Stockholm University, 
Tomtebodavägen 18A, SE-171 65, Stockholm, Sweden. charlotta.nilsen@ki.se.
(2)School of Aging Studies, University of South Florida, 13301 Bruce B. Downs 
Blvd, MHC 1323, Tampa, Florida, 33612, USA.
(3)The International Clinical Research Center, St. Anne's University Hospital, 
Brno, Czech Republic.
(4)Department of Neurology, 2nd Faculty of Medicine, Charles University and 
Motol University Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic.
(5)Aging Research Center (ARC), Karolinska Institutet/Stockholm University, 
Tomtebodavägen 18A, SE-171 65, Stockholm, Sweden.
(6)Institute of Gerontology, School of Health and Welfare, Aging Research 
Network - Jönköping (ARN-J), Jönköping University, Box 1026, 55111, Jönköping, 
Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Increasing life expectancy has made understanding the mechanisms 
underlying late-life health and function more important. We set out to 
investigate whether trajectories of change in psychosocial working conditions 
are associated with late-life physical function.
METHODS: Two Swedish surveys, linked at the individual level, were used 
(n = 803). A psychosocial job exposure matrix was used to measure psychosocial 
working conditions during people's first occupation, as well as their occupation 
every five years thereafter until baseline in 1991. Physical function was 
measured in 2014. Random effects growth curve models were used to calculate 
intraindividual trajectories of working conditions. Predictors of physical 
function were assessed with ordered logistic regression.
RESULTS: A more active job at baseline was associated with increased odds of 
late-life physical function (OR 1.15, CI 1.01-1.32). Higher baseline job strain 
was associated with decreased odds of late-life physical function (OR 0.75, CI 
0.59-0.96). A high initial level followed by an upward trajectory of job strain 
throughout working life was associated with decreased odds of late-life physical 
function (OR 0.32, CI 0.17-0.58).
CONCLUSIONS: Promoting a healthier workplace by reducing chronic stress and 
inducing intellectual stimulation, control, and personal growth may contribute 
to better late-life physical function.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-019-7473-y
PMCID: PMC6698007
PMID: 31419956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


110. Eur Urol. 2019 Dec;76(6):712-713. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2019.07.052. Epub
2019  Aug 14.

Male Life Expectancy is Still Inferior to That of Women: Urologists Must Refine 
and Develop the Concept of Men's Health.

Tharakan T(1), Salonia A(2), Minhas S(3); European Association of Urology 
Working Group on Male Sexual and Reproductive Health.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Imperial Healthcare NHS Trust, Charing Cross Hospital, 
London, UK; Section of Investigative Medicine, Department of Medicine, Imperial 
College London, London, UK.
(2)Division of Experimental Oncology/Unit of Urology, URI, IRCCS Ospedale San 
Raffaele, Milan, Italy; University Vita-Salute San Raffaele, Milan, Italy.
(3)Department of Urology, Imperial Healthcare NHS Trust, Charing Cross Hospital, 
London, UK. Electronic address: suks.minhas@nhs.net.

Urologists can bridge the gender gap in life expectancy through the promotion of 
a holistic and streamlined approach to men's health that incorporates 
optimisation of lifestyle factors (smoking cessation, weight loss, diet) and 
comorbidities (treatment of hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia, and 
hypogo-nadism) and offers cancer screening.

Copyright © 2019 European Association of Urology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2019.07.052
PMID: 31420249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Lancet Infect Dis. 2019 Oct;19(10):1101-1108. doi: 
10.1016/S1473-3099(19)30288-9. Epub 2019 Aug 13.

Intravenous ceftriaxone at home versus intravenous flucloxacillin in hospital 
for children with cellulitis: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Ibrahim LF(1), Huang L(2), Hopper SM(3), Dalziel K(2), Babl FE(3), Bryant PA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia; Murdoch Children's Research Institute, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(2)Centre for Health Policy, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(3)Department of Paediatrics, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia; Murdoch Children's Research Institute, Melbourne, VIC, Australia; 
Emergency Department, The Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(4)Department of Paediatrics, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia; Murdoch Children's Research Institute, Melbourne, VIC, Australia; 
Infectious Diseases Unit, Department of General Medicine, The Royal Children's 
Hospital, Melbourne, VIC, Australia; Hospital-In-The-Home Department, The Royal 
Children's Hospital, Melbourne, VIC, Australia. Electronic address: 
penelope.bryant@rch.org.au.

Comment in
    Lancet Infect Dis. 2019 Oct;19(10):1041-1042.

BACKGROUND: Outpatient parenteral antibiotic therapy after hospital admission is 
increasingly popular, but its use to avoid admission to hospital altogether by 
treating patients wholly as outpatients remains uncommon in children. One reason 
for the low use of treatment at home is the scarcity of evidence of its 
cost-effectiveness. In this planned follow-up analysis of the Cellulitis at Home 
or Inpatient in Children from the Emergency Department (CHOICE) trial, we aimed 
to assess the cost-effectiveness of an admission avoidance pathway, in which 
children were treated at home, compared with standard hospital care for the 
intravenous treatment of moderate or severe cellulitis.
METHODS: We did a cost-effectiveness analysis to compare home treatment with 
intravenous ceftriaxone versus hospital treatment with intravenous 
flucloxacillin in children aged 6 months to 18 years who had presented to the 
emergency department at The Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia, with moderate or severe uncomplicated cellulitis. We included costs 
from two sources: institutional costs at a patient level and expenses incurred 
by families. We measured effectiveness with quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), 
which we derived from the Child Health Utility 9D questionnaire, and a clinical 
outcome of treatment failure, which was the primary outcome of the CHOICE trial. 
We planned to calculate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, defined as the 
difference between groups in total cost divided by the difference between groups 
in effectiveness. The CHOICE trial is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov, number 
NCT02334124.
FINDINGS: We included 180 children who comprised the per-protocol population in 
the CHOICE trial: 89 children in the home group and 91 children in the hospital 
group. The institutional cost per patient per episode was significantly lower in 
the home group than in the hospital group (AUS$1965 vs $3775; p<0·0001). The 
mean cost incurred per family was $182 for the home group and $593 for the 
hospital group (p<0·0001). Both measures of effectiveness were significantly 
better in the home group than in the hospital group: QALYs were 0·005 for the 
home group versus 0·004 for the hospital group (p<0·0001), and treatment failure 
occurred in one (1%) patient in the home group versus seven (8%) patients in the 
hospital group (risk difference -6·5%, 95% CI -12·4 to -0·7; p=0·029). 
Calculating the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was thus deemed redundant.
INTERPRETATION: Treatment at home was less costly and more effective than 
standard hospital care for children with moderate or severe cellulitis. These 
findings support development of this admission avoidance pathway in hospitals.
FUNDING: The Royal Children's Hospital Foundation, Murdoch Children's Research 
Institute.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1473-3099(19)30288-9
PMID: 31420292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Environ Monit Assess. 2019 Aug 16;191(9):571. doi:
10.1007/s10661-019-7731-6.

Extinction risk to lake minnow (Eupallasella percnurus) due to habitat loss: 
Eastern Poland case study.

Sowińska-Świerkosz B(1), Kolejko M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hydrobiology and Protection of Ecosystems, University of Life 
Sciences in Lublin, Dobrzańskiego 37, 20-262, Lublin, Poland. 
barbara.sowinska@wp.pl.
(2)PGW WP - State Water Holding Polish Waters, The Regional Water Management 
Authority in Lublin, Leszka Czarnego 3, 20-610, Lublin, Poland.

In Poland, lake minnow (Eupallasella percnurus Pall.) inhabit 160 sites, 
including 44 in the eastern part of the country. Their habitats are mainly small 
and shallow peat holes vulnerable to complete destruction due to being dried or 
overgrown. Such processes are regularly observed, with ~ 60% of sites having 
vanished since the 1950s. Therefore, this species is one of the most endangered 
fish species from the Cyprinidae family in Polish inland waters. A GIS approach 
was adopted to fully analyze their habitat loss. The habitat area was marked in 
four time periods (from the 1960s to 2018) in reference to 26 sites composed of 
111 reservoirs and representing almost 60% of all those documented in Eastern 
Poland. On this basis, the rate at which the habitat will vanish and the 
predicted time when this will happen were calculated. The results showed that 
the mean vanishing rate oscillates between 1 and 2% of the area per year for 50% 
of the analyzed sites (N = 13). For three sites (11%), this value does not 
exceed 1% of each area per year and is higher than 2% for the rest of the sites 
(39%). The results indicate that if the process of overgrowing and shallowing is 
not stopped, 58% of the analyzed sites will disappear in the next 50 years 
(including 8 (31%) in the next 20 years). This trend may lead to a serious 
decline in the species population or even its extinction in the next decades. 
Passive protection has proven to be insufficient in preserving lake minnow 
habitats. Therefore, there is an urgent need to undertake decisive protection 
action, as proposed in this manuscript.

DOI: 10.1007/s10661-019-7731-6
PMCID: PMC6697757
PMID: 31420753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Trop Med Int Health. 2019 Oct;24(10):1208-1220. doi: 10.1111/tmi.13302. Epub
 2019 Sep 11.

Adult mortality in sub-Saharan Africa: cross-sectional study of causes of death 
in Zambia.

Chisumpa VH(1)(2), Odimegwu CO(1), Saikia N(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Demography and Population Studies Programme, Schools of Public Health and 
Social Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(2)Department of Population Studies, School of Humanities and Social Sciences, 
University of Zambia, Lusaka, Zambia.
(3)School of Social Sciences, Centre for the Study of Regional Development, 
Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, India.
(4)International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Laxenburg, Austria.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the age-sex pattern and socio-economic differentials in 
causes of death among adults between the ages of 15 and 59 years in Zambia.
METHODS: Using data from the 2010-2012 Zambia sample vital registration with 
verbal autopsy survey, we calculated the percentage share of causes of death, 
the age-/sex cause-specific death ratio and cause-eliminated life expectancy at 
age 15.
RESULTS: HIV/AIDS was the leading cause of death across all socio-economic 
subgroups contributing 40.7% of total deaths during the study period. This was 
followed by deaths due to injury and accidents (11.2%). Cause-specific death 
ratios due to HIV/AIDS increased by age and peaked in the 35-39 age group and 
were higher among females than males. The second-leading cause of death was 
injuries and accidents for males and tuberculosis for females. The third-leading 
cause of death was cardiovascular diseases for females and tuberculosis for 
males. Cause of death patterns varied notably by socio-economic characteristics. 
Deaths attributable to non-communicable diseases were more evident in adults 
aged 45-59 years. Eliminating HIV/AIDS in Zambia as a cause of death could raise 
life expectancy at age 15 by 5.7 years for males and by 6.4 years for females.
CONCLUSION: HIV/AIDS-related health programmes and interventions should be 
further supported and strengthened, as they would significantly contribute to 
the reduction in adult mortality in Zambia.

Publisher: OBJECTIF: Décrire les profilsselon l’âge et le sexe, et les 
différences socioéconomiques dans les causes de décès chez les adultes âgés de 
15 à 59 ans en Zambie. MÉTHODES: En utilisant les données de l'enregistrement de 
l’état civil d'un échantillon de la Zambie de 2010 à 2012 avec l'enquête sur 
l'autopsie verbale, nous avons calculé la part en pourcentage des causes de 
décès, le taux de mortalité selon l’âge et le sexe et l'espérance de vie 
éliminée à 15 ans. RÉSULTATS: Le VIH/SIDA était la principale cause de décès 
dans tous les sous-groupes socioéconomiques, contribuant à 40,7% du nombre total 
de décès au cours de la période de l’étude. Viennent ensuite les décès par 
blessures et accidents (11,2%). Les taux de mortalité par cause dus au VIH/SIDA 
ont augmenté avec l’âge et ont culminé dans le groupe d’âge des 35 à 39 ans et 
étaient plus élevés chez les femmes que chez les hommes. La deuxième cause de 
décès était les blessures et les accidents chez les femmes et la tuberculose 
chez les hommes. Latroisième cause de décès était les maladies cardiovasculaires 
chez les femmes et la tuberculose chez les hommes. Les causes de décès variaient 
notamment en fonction des caractéristiques socioéconomiques. Les décès 
imputables aux maladies non transmissibles étaient plus évidents chez les 
adultes âgés de 45 à 59 ans. L’élimination du VIH/SIDA en Zambie en tant que 
cause de décès pourrait augmenter l'espérance de vie à 15 ans de 5,77 ans pour 
les hommes et de 6,40 ans pour les femmes.
CONCLUSION: Les programmes et interventions de santé liés au VIH/SIDA devraient 
être davantage soutenus et renforcés, car ils contribueraient de manière 
significative à la réduction de la mortalité des adultes en Zambie.

© 2019 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tmi.13302
PMID: 31420929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Environ Int. 2019 Nov;132:104812. doi: 10.1016/j.envint.2019.05.006. Epub
2019  Aug 14.

Regional inequalities in benzene exposures across the European petrochemical 
industry: A Bayesian multilevel modelling approach.

Jephcote C(1), Mah A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, United 
Kingdom. Electronic address: calvin.jephcote@warwick.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Sociology, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, United 
Kingdom. Electronic address: a.a.mah@warwick.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Pollutants released from the petrochemical industry are thought to 
increase the risk of mortality in fence-line communities, yet the results from 
previous studies are often inconsistent and lack a global perspective, hampered 
by the absence of cohesive cross-country research.
OBJECTIVES: To provide the first Pan-European analysis of benzene exposures from 
the petrochemical industry, connecting polluting practices to pollution episodes 
and disparities in regional mortality rates, identifying the measures of best 
environmental practice to mitigate adverse outcomes.
METHODS: The activity, classification and location of onshore petrochemical 
facilities within EU-28 Member States were extracted from the 'European 
Pollutant Release and Transfer Register' (E-PRTR), which holds records on 31,753 
industrial operations for the reporting period of 2007-15. Parent company 
records were collected from the Moody's Analytics Amadeus database of 487,338 
active companies across Europe. The EUROSTAT census provided records of income, 
life expectancy, and the underlying demographics used to calculate standardised 
health outcomes based on 9,936 sub-populations within the NUTS2 regions. The 
European Environment Agency provided ambient concentrations of benzene from 579 
air quality stations. Bayesian multilevel models were constructed to account for 
variability caused by spatial hierarchical structures, uncertainty in the 
estimates, and to incorporate both individual and group-level influences.
RESULTS: Higher levels of benzene emissions from petrochemical operations, both 
overall and in terms of specific pollution events, were associated with 
increased mortality rates for nearby residential populations, particularly in 
areas with socioeconomic deprivation. We identify uneven patterns of polluting 
practices within the industry, and locations that require epidemiological 
studies.
CONCLUSIONS: While petrochemical facilities in all European Union regions are 
regulated to be compliant with the annual average benzene limit of 5 μg/m3, 
uneven exposures still present regional health inequalities. We recommend 
extending benzene regulations to an hourly or daily limit, alongside the 
strengthening of regulation for other toxic petrochemical releases.

Copyright © 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envint.2019.05.006
PMCID: PMC6857433
PMID: 31421386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Med Hypotheses. 2019 Nov;132:109357. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2019.109357. Epub
2019  Aug 10.

Toward a cure for lumbar spinal stenosis: The potential of interspinous process 
decompression.

Block JE(1), Lavelle WF(2), Nunley PD(3).

Author information:
(1)2210 Jackson Street, Ste. 401, San Francisco, CA 94115, United States. 
Electronic address: jb@drjonblock.com.
(2)Upstate Bone and Joint Center, East Syracuse, NY 13057, United States. 
Electronic address: lavellew@upstate.edu.
(3)Spine Institute of Louisiana, Shreveport, LA 71101, United States. Electronic 
address: pnunley@louisianaspine.org.

There is a growing impetus to treat aging as a disease in the quest to 
significantly extend the human life span through cellular regeneration methods. 
This approach, while promising, overlooks the fact that the evolutionary 
adaptation to bipedalism puts the human body in a distinctively vulnerable 
biomechanical and functional position. Orthograde human posture places 
unusually-high axial compressive loads on the weight-bearing joints of the 
skeleton, resulting in arthritic deterioration with aging. The effects are 
particularly robust in the lumbar spine were age-related degeneration, most 
commonly lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS), is ubiquitous among the elderly. It is 
postulated that re-establishing a favorable mechanical environment via 
interventions that unload the affected spinal joint complex may mitigate and 
potentially reverse the structural damage that is the cardinal pathoanatomical 
feature of this disease. The hypothesis of this paper is that a 
minimally-invasive surgical procedure, interspinous process decompression (IPD), 
which utilizes a stand-alone intervertebral spacer, effectively unloads the 
diseased spinal motion segment providing a healthy micro-environment to reverse 
and repair age-related and genetic deterioration of the spinal motion segment. 
Several lines of supporting evidence are provided from long-term follow-up 
results of a randomized controlled trial of IPD safety and effectiveness of the 
Superion® device including clinical outcomes, reoperation rates, opioid 
analgesic usage and advanced imaging utilization. All of these outcomes show 
uniquely-favorable trends with time that imply that the benefits of IPD are 
structural. The compendium of evidence suggests that IPD offers both a durable 
palliative effect due to direct blocking of back extension and a 
disease-modifying effect due to unloading of the spinal joint complex.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2019.109357
PMID: 31421414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Am J Surg. 2019 Dec;218(6):1229-1233. doi: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2019.08.004.
Epub  2019 Aug 10.

Are we choosing wisely in elderly females with breast cancer?

Calderon E(1), Webb C(1), Kosiorek HE(2), Richard J Gray MD(1), Cronin P(1), 
Anderson K(3), Northfelt D(3), McCullough A(4), Ocal IT(4), Pockaj B(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery. Division of Surgical Oncology, Mayo Clinic Arizona, 
USA.
(2)Department of Research-Biostatistics, Mayo Clinic Arizona, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology / Oncology, Mayo Clinic 
Arizona, USA.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic Arizona, USA.
(5)Department of Surgery. Division of Surgical Oncology, Mayo Clinic Arizona, 
USA. Electronic address: pockaj.barbara@mayo.edu.

BACKGROUND: The Choosing Wisely Organization and the American College of 
Surgeons have issued recommendations for patients >70 with breast cancer 
involving screening and use of radiation therapy (RT) and sentinel lymph node 
biopsies (SNLB) in early stage tumors. This study evaluated compliance and 
implementation of these recommendations.
METHODS: A database of patients undergoing breast cancer surgery was 
retrospectively queried from 2002 to 2017. Patients were divided into cohorts 
before and after the year of each guideline publication.
RESULTS: The rate of presentation on mammography was not different before 2009 
(65%) vs. after 2009 (66%). RT was given to 57% of patients with T1 
ER + Her2-prior to 2013 vs. 27% after (p=<0.001). SLNB was performed in 91% of 
patients with T1, grade1/2, ER + Her2-tumors prior to 2016 vs. 56% after 
(p=<0.001).
CONCLUSION: Rates of mammography detected breast cancer have not decreased but 
adjuvant RT and SLNB are less frequently performed in low risk breast cancer in 
the elderly.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2019.08.004
PMID: 31421894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Insect Biochem Mol Biol. 2019 Oct;113:103210. doi:
10.1016/j.ibmb.2019.103210.  Epub 2019 Aug 15.

CYP303A1 has a conserved function in adult eclosion in Locusta migratoria and 
Drosophila melanogaster.

Wu L(1), Jia Q(2), Zhang X(3), Zhang X(3), Liu S(2), Park Y(4), Feyereisen R(5), 
Zhu KY(4), Ma E(3), Zhang J(6), Li S(7).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute of Applied Biology, Shanxi University, Taiyuan, Shanxi 
030006, China; College of Life Science, Shanxi University, Taiyuan, Shanxi 
030006, China; Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Insect Development Biology 
and Applied Technology, Institute of Insect Science and Technology, School of 
Life Sciences, South China Normal University, Guangzhou 510631, China.
(2)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Insect Development Biology and Applied 
Technology, Institute of Insect Science and Technology, School of Life Sciences, 
South China Normal University, Guangzhou 510631, China.
(3)Research Institute of Applied Biology, Shanxi University, Taiyuan, Shanxi 
030006, China.
(4)Department of Entomology, Kansas State University, Manhattan, KS 66506, USA.
(5)Department of Plant and Environmental Sciences, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen 1017, Denmark; Department of Plant and Crops, Ghent University, 
B-9000 Ghent, Belgium.
(6)Research Institute of Applied Biology, Shanxi University, Taiyuan, Shanxi 
030006, China. Electronic address: zjz@sxu.edu.cn.
(7)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Insect Development Biology and Applied 
Technology, Institute of Insect Science and Technology, School of Life Sciences, 
South China Normal University, Guangzhou 510631, China. Electronic address: 
lisheng@scnu.edu.cn.

Insect cytochrome P450 monooxygenases (CYPs) play essential roles in both 
xenobiotic metabolism and developmental processes. However, the exact 
physiological function of many CYP genes remains largely unknown. Screening the 
expression of the CYP genes from the CYP2 and mitochondrial CYP clans of 
Drosophila melanogaster revealed that Cyp303a1 is highly expressed in the pupal 
stage. Knockdown of CYP303A1 transcripts by RNAi using the Gal4/UAS system with 
a ubiquitous driver (tubulin-Gal4) in Drosophila or by dsRNA injection in the 
last nymph stage of Locusta migratoria resulted in severe defects in eclosion 
and lethality during and after adult emergence. In Drosophila, tissue-specific 
RNAi of Cyp303a1 with a wing-specific driver (MS1096-Gal4) revealed that 
Cyp303a1 was essential for wing extension. Stage-specific RNAi of Cyp303a1 using 
Gal80ts for thermal-dependent-suppression found that the expression of Cyp303a1 
at the middle pupal stage was absolutely required. Meanwhile, Cyp303a1 mutants 
exhibited more than 80% lethality at the late embryonic development stages. 
Embryonic lethality of the Cyp303a1 mutants was fully rescued by the ubiquitous 
overexpression of exogenous Cyp303a1. Taken together, we conclude that Cyp303a1 
is indispensable for embryonic development and adult eclosion in D. 
melanogaster, the latter role being conserved over 400 million years of insect 
evolution.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ibmb.2019.103210
PMID: 31422152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Disabil Health J. 2020 Jan;13(1):100827. doi: 10.1016/j.dhjo.2019.100827.
Epub  2019 Aug 7.

Disability advocacy messaging and conceptual links to underlying disability 
identity development among college students with learning disabilities and 
attention disorders.

Kreider CM(1), Luna C(2), Lan MF(3), Wu CY(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Therapy, University of Florida. PO Box 100164, 
Gainesville, FL, 32610-0164, USA. Electronic address: ckreider@ufl.edu.
(2)Department of Occupational Therapy, University of Florida. PO Box 100164, 
Gainesville, FL, 32610-0164, USA.
(3)Counseling and Wellness Center, University of Florida. PO Box 112662, 
Gainesville, FL, 32611-2662, USA.
(4)Department of Environmental Engineering Sciences, University of Florida. 
Gainesville, FL, 32611-6450, USA.

BACKGROUND: Learning disabilities and attention disorders (LD/AD) are highly 
prevalent neurodevelopmental conditions that influence developmental 
trajectories and whose impacts exist throughout the life course. Self-advocacy 
skills are critical for college students with LD/AD, which are underpinned by 
understanding of self and one's disability.
OBJECTIVE: This study examined disability advocacy messaging included in 
projects created by college students with LD/AD, compared patterns in disability 
messaging to existing disability identity models, and explored changes in 
disability messaging during receipt of holistic campus-based LD/AD supports.
METHODS: Participants were 52 undergraduates with LD/AD enrolled in a larger 
study. This one-group analysis involved qualitative exploration of the projects' 
topical content, use of grounded theory procedures for conceptualizing the data, 
and quantitative analysis to explore changes over time in disability advocacy 
messaging.
RESULTS: Participants messaged a broad range of disability-related topics. A 
five-level theoretical model of disability messaging was created from the 
textual data. The model evinces parallels to existing disability identity 
development models. A significant (p < .01) positive shift in disability 
messaging was observed in a comparison of messages from participants' first and 
last projects submitted over the four-semester period of study involvement.
CONCLUSION: Study findings support conceptual linkages among disability 
messaging and disability identity development. The resultant continuum model 
suggests a potential extension of existing disability identity development 
paradigms. Shifts in disability messaging provide preliminary evidence for 
potential personal and institutional benefits of engaging college students with 
LD/AD in disability-focused project creation.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dhjo.2019.100827
PMCID: PMC7487082
PMID: 31422170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests: Authors report no 
conflict of interest.


119. Behav Ther. 2019 Sep;50(5):898-909. doi: 10.1016/j.beth.2019.01.005. Epub
2019  Jan 25.

Goal Achievement and Goal-Related Cognitions in Behavioral Activation Treatment 
for Depression.

Knittle K(1), Gellert P(2), Moore C(3), Bourke N(3), Hull V(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Helsinki. Electronic address: keegan.knittle@helsinki.fi.
(2)Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin.
(3)Sunderland Psychological Wellbeing Service, Monkwearmouth Hospital.

This study investigates the extent to which achieving goals during behavioral 
activation (BA) treatment predicts depressive symptom improvement, and whether 
goal-related cognitions predict goal achievement or treatment response. Patients 
(n = 110, mean age 37.6, 54% female) received low-intensity cognitive behavioral 
therapy for depression, which included setting up to three behavioral goals in 
each of three BA-focused sessions (i.e., 9 goals per patient). Patients 
completed items from the Self-Regulation Skills Battery to assess goal-related 
cognitions and goal achievement for these goals, and depressive symptoms were 
assessed weekly with the PHQ-9. Multilevel models investigated the relationships 
between goal-related cognitions, goal achievement and depressive symptoms. 
Depressive symptoms improved curve-linearly during treatment (B = 0.12, p < 
.001), but were not predicted by contemporaneous or time-lagged goal 
achievement. While cumulative goal achievement predicted end-of-treatment 
depressive symptoms (r = -.23; p < .01), this relationship became nonsignificant 
after controlling for depressive symptoms at baseline. Readiness, planning and 
action control predicted greater goal achievement, whereas greater goal 
ownership predicted less goal achievement (all p < .05). Motivation and outcome 
expectancy were related to subsequent, but not contemporaneous, improvements in 
depressive symptoms (all p < .05). This study indicates the importance of 
goal-related cognitions in BA treatments, and future research should investigate 
potential moderators of the relationships between goal-related cognitions, goal 
achievement, and improvements in depressive symptoms.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beth.2019.01.005
PMID: 31422846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. EuroIntervention. 2019 Dec 6;15(11):e959-e967. doi: 10.4244/EIJ-D-18-00847.

Cost-effectiveness of transcatheter versus surgical aortic valve replacement in 
patients at lower surgical risk: results from the NOTION trial.

Geisler BP(1), Jørgensen TH, Thyregod HGH, Pietzsch JB, Søndergaard L.

Author information:
(1)Wing Tech Inc., Menlo Park, CA, USA.

AIMS: The aim of this study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) versus surgical aortic valve 
replacement (SAVR) in patients at lower surgical risk.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Discounted costs from a societal perspective and 
effectiveness as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were projected to lifetime 
via a decision-analytic model calibrated to 60-month data from the NOTION trial. 
The base case assumed a scenario in which any mortality benefit would gradually 
fade out over time, with other scenarios explored in sensitivity analyses. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was compared to the country-specific 
willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold of 1.13 million Danish kroner (DKK). The base 
case ICER was DKK 696,264/QALY (around €72,100/QALY via purchasing parity 
adjustment). Variation in long-term mortality beyond five years led to limited 
variation of incremental costs (DKK 64,200 to 64,600), but a more pronounced 
variation in incremental QALYs (0.07 to 0.19 QALYs for most conservative and 
optimistic assumptions, compared to base case of 0.09 QALYs). All resulting 
ICERs (range DKK 334,200 to DKK 904,100 per QALY gained) were below the WTP 
threshold.
CONCLUSIONS: TAVI in a cohort of primarily low surgical risk patients was found 
to be a cost-effective treatment strategy in the Danish healthcare system. 
Cost-effectiveness analyses in other settings are warranted as are registries 
given the sensitivity of the model to long-term mortality.

DOI: 10.4244/EIJ-D-18-00847
PMID: 31422922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. J Health Care Poor Underserved. 2019;30(3):1053-1067. doi: 
10.1353/hpu.2019.0073.

Cost-Effectiveness of Hepatitis C Screening and Treatment in Low-Income, 
Primarily Hispanic Baby Boomers.

Hollenbeak CS, Rochat A, Hollenbeak AC, Choi AN, Gutierrez J, Turner BJ.

The cost-effectiveness of hepatitis C virus (HCV) screening and treatment was 
examined in low-income, primarily Hispanic baby boomers born 1945-1965 using a 
Markov model of the natural history of HCV. The model was parameterized using 
costs and diagnostic data from 2008-2016 and from literature on disease 
progression and effectiveness of screening and treatment using direct acting 
anti-viral (DAA) therapy. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was 
computed from the perspective of Medicare as payer, calculated over 20 years, 
and discounted at 3% per year. In the base case, HCV screening cost $3,334 
versus $3,797 for no screening, and yielded more quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs; 14.08 vs 13.96, respectively). The ICER for screening was still less 
than $20,000 per additional QALY with drug costs up to $100,000. Among 
low-income Hispanics, HCV screening was less costly for Medicare and more 
effective than no screening under most assumptions. This analysis supports 
investment in screening and treatment in Hispanics.

DOI: 10.1353/hpu.2019.0073
PMID: 31422988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Cardiovasc Res. 2020 Jan 1;116(1):63-77. doi: 10.1093/cvr/cvz219.

A plasma proteogenomic signature for fibromuscular dysplasia.

Olin JW(1), Di Narzo AF(2), d'Escamard V(1), Kadian-Dodov D(1), Cheng H(2), 
Georges A(3)(4), King A(1), Thomas A(1), Barwari T(5), Michelis KC(1), Bouchareb 
R(1), Bander E(1), Anyanwu A(6), Stelzer P(6), Filsoufi F(6), Florman S(7), 
Civelek M(8), Debette S(9)(10), Jeunemaitre X(3)(4)(11), Björkegren JLM(2)(12), 
Mayr M(1)(5), Bouatia-Naji N(3)(4), Hao K(2), Kovacic JC(1).

Author information:
(1)The Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, One Gustave L. Levy Place, Box 1030, New York, NY 
10029, USA.
(2)Department of Genetics & Genomic Sciences, Institute of Genomics and 
Multiscale Biology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(3)INSERM, UMR970 Paris Cardiovascular Research Center (PARCC), Paris, France.
(4)Paris-Descartes University, Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris 75006, France.
(5)King's British Heart Foundation Centre, King's College London, London, UK.
(6)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(7)Recanati-Miller Transplantation Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(8)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Virginia, 
Charlottesville, VA, USA.
(9)Bordeaux Population Health Research Centre, INSERM U1219, University of 
Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.
(10)Memory Clinic, Department of Neurology and Institute for Neurodegenerative 
Diseases, CHU de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.
(11)Assistance Publique-Hôpital De Paris, Department of Genetics and Referral 
Center for Rare Vascular Diseases, Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou, Paris, 
F-75015, France.
(12)Integrated Cardio Metabolic Centre, Department of Medicine, Karolinska 
Institutet, Karolinska Universitetssjukhuset, Huddinge, Sweden.

Comment in
    Cardiovasc Res. 2020 Jan 1;116(1):4-5.

AIMS: Fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD) is a poorly understood disease that 
predominantly affects women during middle-life, with features that include 
stenosis, aneurysm, and dissection of medium-large arteries. Recently, plasma 
proteomics has emerged as an important means to understand cardiovascular 
diseases. Our objectives were: (i) to characterize plasma proteins and determine 
if any exhibit differential abundance in FMD subjects vs. matched healthy 
controls and (ii) to leverage these protein data to conduct systems analyses to 
provide biologic insights on FMD, and explore if this could be developed into a 
blood-based FMD test.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Females with 'multifocal' FMD and matched healthy controls 
underwent clinical phenotyping, dermal biopsy, and blood draw. Using 
dual-capture proximity extension assay and nuclear magnetic 
resonance-spectroscopy, we evaluated plasma levels of 981 proteins and 31 lipid 
sub-classes, respectively. In a discovery cohort (Ncases = 90, Ncontrols = 100), 
we identified 105 proteins and 16 lipid sub-classes (predominantly triglycerides 
and fatty acids) with differential plasma abundance in FMD cases vs. controls. 
In an independent cohort (Ncases = 23, Ncontrols = 28), we successfully 
validated 37 plasma proteins and 10 lipid sub-classes with differential 
abundance. Among these, 5/37 proteins exhibited genetic control and Bayesian 
analyses identified 3 of these as potential upstream drivers of FMD. In a 3rd 
cohort (Ncases = 506, Ncontrols = 876) the genetic locus of one of these 
upstream disease drivers, CD2-associated protein (CD2AP), was independently 
validated as being associated with risk of having FMD (odds ratios  = 1.36; 
P = 0.0003). Immune-fluorescence staining identified that CD2AP is expressed by 
the endothelium of medium-large arteries. Finally, machine learning trained on 
the discovery cohort was used to develop a test for FMD. When independently 
applied to the validation cohort, the test showed a c-statistic of 0.73 and 
sensitivity of 78.3%.
CONCLUSION: FMD exhibits a plasma proteogenomic and lipid signature that 
includes potential causative disease drivers, and which holds promise for 
developing a blood-based test for this disease.

Published on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. 
© The Author(s) 2019. For permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cvr/cvz219
PMCID: PMC6918065
PMID: 31424497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Neuroanatomy, Retina.

Mahabadi N(1), Al Khalili Y(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Aug 8.

Author information:
(1)A.T. Still University
(2)Virginia Commonwealth University

