Epub  2019 Jul 25.

The Tricellular Junction Protein Sidekick Regulates Vertex Dynamics to Promote 
Bicellular Junction Extension.

Uechi H(1), Kuranaga E(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Histogenetic Dynamics, Graduate School of Life Sciences, 
Tohoku University, 6-3 Aramaki Aza-Aoba, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8578, Japan.
(2)Laboratory for Histogenetic Dynamics, Graduate School of Life Sciences, 
Tohoku University, 6-3 Aramaki Aza-Aoba, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8578, Japan. 
Electronic address: erina.kuranaga.d1@tohoku.ac.jp.

Remodeling of cell-cell junctions drives cell intercalation that causes tissue 
movement during morphogenesis through the shortening and growth of bicellular 
junctions. The growth of new junctions is essential for continuing and then 
completing cellular dynamics and tissue shape sculpting; however, the mechanism 
underlying junction growth remains obscure. We investigated Drosophila genitalia 
rotation where continuous cell intercalation occurs to show that myosin II 
accumulating at the vertices of a new junction is required for the junction 
growth. This myosin II accumulation requires the adhesive transmembrane protein 
Sidekick (Sdk), which localizes to the adherens junctions (AJs) of tricellular 
contacts (tAJs). Sdk also localizes to and blocks the accumulation of E-Cadherin 
at newly formed growing junctions, which maintains the growth rate. We propose 
that Sdk facilitates tAJ movement by mediating myosin II-driven contraction and 
altering the adhesive properties at the tAJs, leading to cell-cell junction 
extension during persistent junction remodeling.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.devcel.2019.06.017
PMID: 31353316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2020 Jan 1;75(1):89-98. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glz177.

Life-span Extension Drug Interventions Affect Adipose Tissue Inflammation in 
Aging.

Mau T(1)(2), O'Brien M(1), Ghosh AK(1), Miller RA(3), Yung R(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric and Palliative Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
(2)Graduate Program in Immunology, Program in Biomedical Sciences (PIBS), 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
(3)Department of Pathology and Glenn Center for Biology of Aging Research, 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
(4)Geriatric Research, Education, and Clinical Care Center (GRECC), VA Ann Arbor 
Health System, Michigan.

The National Institute on Aging (NIA)-sponsored Interventions Testing Program 
(ITP) has identified a number of dietary drug interventions that significantly 
extend life span, including rapamycin, acarbose, and 17-α estradiol. However, 
these drugs have diverse downstream targets, and their effects on age-associated 
organ-specific changes are unclear (Nadon NL, Strong R, Miller RA, Harrison DE. 
NIA Interventions Testing Program: investigating putative aging intervention 
agents in a genetically heterogeneous mouse model. EBioMedicine. 2017;21:3-4. 
doi:10.1016/j.ebiom.2016.11.038). Potential mechanisms by which these drugs 
extend life could be through their effect on inflammatory processes often noted 
in tissues of aging mice and humans. Our study focuses on the effects of three 
drugs in the ITP on inflammation in gonadal white adipose tissue (gWAT) of HET3 
mice-including adiposity, adipose tissue macrophage (ATM) M1/M2 polarization, 
markers of cellular senescence, and endoplasmic reticulum stress. We found that 
rapamycin led to a 56% increase of CD45+ leukocytes in gWAT, where the majority 
of these are ATMs. Interestingly, rapamycin led to a 217% and 106% increase of 
M1 (CD45+CD64+CD206-) ATMs in females and males, respectively. Our data suggest 
rapamycin may achieve life-span extension in part through adipose tissue 
inflammation. Additionally, HET3 mice exhibit a spectrum of age-associated 
changes in the gWAT, but acarbose and 17-α estradiol do not strongly alter these 
phenotypes-suggesting that acarbose and 17- α estradiol may not influence life 
span through mechanisms involving adipose tissue inflammation.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glz177
PMCID: PMC6909899
PMID: 31353414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Aging Male. 2020 Mar;23(1):42-52. doi: 10.1080/13685538.2019.1645109. Epub
2019  Jul 29.

Men's health in the United States: a national health paradox.

Nuzzo JL(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Research Australia, Randwick, Australia.
(2)School of Medical Sciences, University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.

A health paradox exists in the United States. Men have worse health outcomes 
than women, but national offices exist for promoting women's but not men's 
health. Two factors that might contribute to this paradox are: underappreciation 
for the number of health issues that affect men more than women and unawareness 
that men's health receives less attention than women's health. Therefore, the 
aim of this article was to summarize the data related to these two factors. 
First, using mostly government data, an inventory of health issues that are more 
common in males than females was generated, with prevalence rates listed. 
Second, results from two new scientometric analyses are presented: (a) number of 
times "men's health" and "women's health" appeared in titles or abstracts of 
papers in PubMed from 1970 to 2018; and (b) number of journals currently indexed 
in MEDLINE that specialize in men's or women's health. The epidemiological data 
illustrate numerous health issues are more prevalent in men than women, and 
scientometric data reveal men's health has been given less attention as a 
distinct field of biomedical research than women's health. This information can 
help to educate legislators, health officials, journalists, and the general 
public about the current paradox surrounding men's health in the United States.

DOI: 10.1080/13685538.2019.1645109
PMID: 31354093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Front Hum Neurosci. 2019 Jul 9;13:222. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2019.00222. 
eCollection 2019.

Learning to Look at the Bright Side of Life: Attention Bias Modification 
Training Enhances Optimism Bias.

Kress L(1), Aue T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.

Identifying neurocognitive mechanisms underlying optimism bias is essential to 
understand its benefits for well-being and mental health. The combined cognitive 
biases hypothesis suggests that biases (e.g., in expectancies and attention) 
interact and mutually enforce each other. Whereas, in line with this hypothesis, 
optimistic expectancies have been shown to guide attention to positive 
information, reverse causal effects have not been investigated yet. Revealing 
such bidirectional optimism-attention interactions both on a behavioral and 
neural level could explain how cognitive biases contribute to a self-sustaining 
upward spiral of positivity. In this behavioral study, we hypothesized that 
extensive training to direct attention to positive information enhances optimism 
bias. To test this hypothesis, for 2 weeks, 149 participants underwent either 
daily online 80-trial attention bias modification training (ABMT) toward 
accepting faces and away from rejecting faces or neutral control training. 
Participants in the ABMT group were instructed to click as quickly as possible 
on the accepting face among 15 rejecting faces randomly displayed on a 4-by-4 
matrix; participants in the control group were instructed to click on the 
five-petaled flower depicted among 15 seven-petaled flowers. Comparative 
optimism bias and state optimism were measured via questionnaires before 
training, after one training week, and after two training weeks. ABMT enhanced 
comparative optimism bias, whereas control training did not. Our findings reveal 
that ABMT toward positive social information causally influences comparative 
optimism bias and may, thereby trigger the biases' benefits for well-being and 
mental health. These results can (a) stimulate future neurophysiological 
research in the area of positive psychology; and (b) reveal an innovative 
low-cost and easy-to-access intervention that may support psychotherapy in times 
of rising numbers of patients with psychological disorders.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2019.00222
PMCID: PMC6629951
PMID: 31354449


910. Front Plant Sci. 2019 Jul 12;10:906. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2019.00906.
eCollection  2019.

Priming of Plant Resistance to Heat Stress and Tomato Yellow Leaf Curl Thailand 
Virus With Plant-Derived Materials.

Tsai WA(1)(2), Weng SH(1)(3), Chen MC(4), Lin JS(4), Tsai WS(5).

Author information:
(1)Hualien District Agricultural Research and Extension Station, Council of 
Agriculture, Executive Yuan, Hualien City, Taiwan.
(2)Queensland Alliance for Agriculture and Food Innovation, The University of 
Queensland, St Lucia, QLD, Australia.
(3)School of Biological Sciences, The University of Queensland, St Lucia, QLD, 
Australia.
(4)Department of Life Sciences, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, 
Taiwan.
(5)Department of Plant Medicine, National Chiayi University, Chiayi City, 
Taiwan.

Plants are often simultaneously exposed to diverse environmental stresses, and 
can tune suitable responses to them through hormones. Salicylic acid (SA) and 
jasmonic acid (JA) signaling pathways are known to enhance resistance against 
heat stress and tomato yellow leaf curl Thailand virus (TYLCTHV) infection. 
However, there is limited information regarding alternative natural priming 
agents against heat stress and viruses. In this study, two plant-derived priming 
agents, eugenol and anise oil, were tested for their roles in conferring 
thermotolerance and virus resistance in tomato plants. Under heat stress, the 
survival rates and average fresh weight were higher in plants treated with 
eugenol or anise oil than in control plants. These two priming agents were 
further tested for antiviral activities. After TYLCTHV infection, the disease 
incidence and relative abundance of TYLCTHV were lower in anise oil- and 
eugenol-treated plants than in control plants. Further analyses revealed that a 
few SA, JA, and RNA silencing genes were enhanced in the former. Moreover, SA, 
JA, and H2O2 contents increased considerably after eugenol and anise oil 
treatments. Our findings imply that anise oil and eugenol initiated SA- and 
JA-mediated defenses to promote thermotolerance and antiviral responses of 
tomato plants.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2019.00906
PMCID: PMC6640737
PMID: 31354773


911. Front Oncol. 2019 Jul 12;9:564. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2019.00564. eCollection
2019.

The Oncolytic Virus dl922-947 Triggers Immunogenic Cell Death in Mesothelioma 
and Reduces Xenograft Growth.

Di Somma S(1), Iannuzzi CA(2), Passaro C(1), Forte IM(2), Iannone R(1), 
Gigantino V(3), Indovina P(4), Botti G(5), Giordano A(4)(6), Formisano P(1), 
Portella G(1), Malfitano AM(1), Pentimalli F(2).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento Scienze Mediche Traslazionali, Università di Napoli "Federico 
II", Naples, Italy.
(2)Cell Biology and Biotherapy Unit, Istituto Nazionale Tumori IRCCS, Fondazione 
G. Pascale, Naples, Italy.
(3)Pathology Unit, Istituto Nazionale Tumori IRCCS, Fondazione G. Pascale, 
Naples, Italy.
(4)Center for Biotechnology, Sbarro Institute for Cancer Research and Molecular 
Medicine, College of Science and Technology, Temple University, Philadelphia, 
PA, United States.
(5)Scientific Direction, Istituto Nazionale Tumori IRCCS, Fondazione G. Pascale, 
Naples, Italy.
(6)Department of Medical Biotechnologies, University of Siena, Siena, Italy.

Background: Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is an aggressive cancer 
associated with asbestos exposure that urgently requires effective therapeutic 
strategies. Current treatments are unable to increase significantly patient 
survival, which is often limited to <1 year from diagnosis. Virotherapy, based 
on the use of oncolytic viruses that exert anti-cancer effects by direct cell 
lysis and through the induction of anti-tumor immune response, represents an 
alternative therapeutic option for rare tumors with limited life expectancy. In 
this study, we propose the use of the adenovirus dl922-947, engineered to allow 
selective replication in cancer cells, to counteract MPM. Methods: We performed 
a thorough preclinical assessment of dl922-947 effects in a set of MPM cell 
lines and xenografts. Cytotoxicity of dl922-947 alone and in combination assays 
was evaluated by sulforhodamine B assay. Cell cycle, calreticulin expression, 
and high mobility group box protein 1 (HMGB1) secretion were determined by flow 
cytometry, whereas ATP content was determined by a luminescence-based bioassay. 
The modulation of angiogenic factors in MPM-infected cells was evaluated through 
ELISA. Results: We found that dl922-947 infection exhibits cytotoxic effects in 
MPM cell lines, affecting cell viability, cell cycle progression, and regulating 
main hallmarks of immunogenic cell death inducing calreticulin surface exposure, 
HMGB1 and ATP release. Our results also suggest that dl922-947 may affect 
angiogenic signals by regulation of VEGF-A and IL-8 secretion. Furthermore, 
dl922-947 shows anti-tumor efficacy in murine xenograft models reducing tumor 
growth and enhancing survival. Finally, the combination with cisplatin 
potentiated the cytotoxic effect of dl922-947. Conclusions: Overall our data 
identify virotherapy, based on the use of dl922-947, as a new possible 
therapeutic strategy against MPM, which could be used alone, in combination with 
standard chemotherapy drugs, as shown here, or other approaches also aimed at 
enhancing the antitumoral immune response elicited by the virus.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2019.00564
PMCID: PMC6639422
PMID: 31355131


912. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 2019 Dec;46(12):1133-1140. doi: 
10.1111/1440-1681.13149. Epub 2019 Aug 30.

Pro-neurocognitive and anti-sarcopenic benefits of one-year metformin therapy in 
ovariectomized aged mice.

Zakeri M(1), Fatemi I(2), Kaeidi A(3)(4), Zakeri MA(1), Hakimizadeh E(3)(4), 
Hassanipour M(3)(4), Rahmani M(3)(4), Hassanshahi J(3)(4), Ayoobi F(5), 
Allahtavakoli M(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, 
Rafsanjan, Iran.
(2)Research Center for Tropical and Infectious Diseases, Kerman University of 
Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(3)Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research Institute of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
(4)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Rafsanjan 
University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
(5)Non-Communicable Diseases Research Center, Rafsanjan University of Medical 
Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.

Health promotion and healthy nutrition significantly increased life expectancy 
around the world. Aging is associated with an increase in age-related diseases. 
The use of metformin (Met) as an anti-aging drug has recently been proposed 
based on its widespread use in clinical practice. Reports have shown that Met 
acts as an anti-aging agent. In this study, the effects of long-term, 1 year, 
Met administration on aging-related behaviors and longevity in ovariectomized 
mice was studied. Met (1 and 10 mg/kg, daily) was administered orally in 
ovariectomized mice. The anxiety-like behavior, working memory, and physical 
strength were measured through elevated plus maze, Y-maze, vertical grid 
holding, and the obligatory swimming capacity tests. Brains were harvested to 
measure brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) level. Also, the Kaplan-Meier 
survival curves were used to show differences and similarities in survival 
patterns. Met (10 mg/kg) decreased anxiety-like behaviors as well as increased 
muscle strength and working memory in the ovariectomized mice. Moreover, Met 
increased the physical strength and longevity as well as the level of BDNF in 
the ovariectomized mice. Our results indicate that Met administration can be an 
effective strategy for having a healthy aging in the absence of female gonadal 
hormones and reverses deleterious effects of ovariectomy-induced aging possibly 
through BDNF.

© 2019 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1440-1681.13149
PMID: 31357227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Cancers (Basel). 2019 Jul 27;11(8):1060. doi: 10.3390/cancers11081060.

High FREM2 Gene and Protein Expression Are Associated with Favorable Prognosis 
of IDH-WT Glioblastomas.

Jovčevska I(1), Zottel A(2), Šamec N(2), Mlakar J(3), Sorokin M(4)(5)(6), 
Nikitin D(4)(6), Buzdin AA(4)(6)(7), Komel R(2).

Author information:
(1)Medical Centre for Molecular Biology, Institute of Biochemistry, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Ljubljana, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia. 
ivana.jovcevska@mf.uni-lj.si.
(2)Medical Centre for Molecular Biology, Institute of Biochemistry, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Ljubljana, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(3)Institute of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Ljubljana, 1000 
Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(4)Laboratory of Clinical and Genomic Bioinformatics, I. M. Sechenov First 
Moscow State Medical University, 119146 Moscow, Russia.
(5)Omicsway Corp., Walnut, CA 91789, USA.
(6)Shemyakin-Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Russian Academy of 
Sciences, 117997 Moscow, Russia.
(7)Oncobox Ltd., 121205 Moscow, Russia.

World Health Organization grade IV diffuse gliomas, known as glioblastomas, are 
the most common malignant brain tumors, and they show poor prognosis. Multimodal 
treatment of surgery followed by radiation and chemotherapy is not sufficient to 
increase patient survival, which is 12 to 18 months after diagnosis. Despite 
extensive research, patient life expectancy has not significantly improved over 
the last decade. Previously, we identified FREM2 and SPRY1 as genes with 
differential expression in glioblastoma cell lines compared to nonmalignant 
astrocytes. In addition, the FREM2 and SPRY1 proteins show specific localization 
on the surface of glioblastoma cells. In this study, we explored the roles of 
the FREM2 and SPRY1 genes and their proteins in glioblastoma pathology using 
human tissue samples. We used proteomic, transcriptomic, and bioinformatics 
approaches to detect changes at different molecular levels. We demonstrate 
increased FREM2 protein expression levels in glioblastomas compared to reference 
samples. At the transcriptomic level, both FREM2 and SPRY1 show increased 
expression in tissue samples of different glioma grades compared to nonmalignant 
brain tissue. To broaden our experimental findings, we analyzed The Cancer 
Genome Atlas glioblastoma patient datasets. We discovered higher FREM2 and SPRY1 
gene expression levels in glioblastomas compared to lower grade gliomas and 
reference samples. In addition, we observed that low FREM2 expression was 
associated with progression of IDH-mutant low-grade glioma patients. 
Multivariate analysis showed positive association between FREM2 and favorable 
prognosis of IDH-wild type glioblastoma. We conclude that FREM2 has an important 
role in malignant progression of glioblastoma, and we suggest deeper analysis to 
determine its involvement in glioblastoma pathology.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers11081060
PMCID: PMC6721429
PMID: 31357584

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


914. BMC Gastroenterol. 2019 Jul 29;19(1):137. doi: 10.1186/s12876-019-1052-7.

Case report of synchronous post-lung transplant colon cancers in the era of 
colorectal cancer screening recommendations in cystic fibrosis: screening "too 
early" before it's too late.

Abraham JM(1), Mahan K(2), Mettler T(3), Dunitz JM(2), Khoruts A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, University of 
Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA. abrah197@umn.edu.
(2)Department of Medicine, Division of Pulmonary Medicine, University of 
Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, University of 
Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.

BACKGROUND: The increasing life expectancy of individuals with Cystic Fibrosis 
(CF) is likely to be associated with new age-related challenges, colorectal 
cancer (CRC) most notably; recent consensus recommendations for CRC screening 
published in 2018 represent an important early step in addressing the emerging 
awareness of CF as a gastrointestinal cancer syndrome. These recommendations, 
however, need to be further refined based on more systematic data. We discuss an 
illustrative first-ever case of synchronous CRC arising in a post-lung 
transplant individual with CF within the recommended surveillance interval after 
a well-documented prior normal colonoscopy.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 51-year-old female individual with homozygous F508del CF, 
presents to clinic with abdominal discomfort and intermittent blood in stools. 
She had previously undergone bilateral lung transplantation 18 years earlier, as 
well as two kidney transplants related to immunosuppression-related 
nephrotoxicity. A diagnostic colonoscopy was performed which revealed the 
presence of two separate synchronous colon cancers in the cecum and transverse 
colon; she had undergone a colonoscopy three years prior to this exam which was 
structurally normal. Endoscopic quality indicators, including a good quality 
bowel preparation, colonoscopic withdrawal time > 12 min, and quarterly Adenoma 
Detection Rate (ADR) ranging from 50 to 70% for both male and female patients 
for the endoscopist from both colonoscopic exams, as well as secondary 
retrospective comparative review of the pertinent case images, diminish the risk 
for a "missed" cancer or advanced lesion on the index exam. These cancers did 
not demonstrate any immunohistochemical features suggestive of Lynch Syndrome, 
though the rapid progression to cancer within the surveillance interval 
(possibly non-polypoid in nature) is similar. This cancer presentation within 
the newly-established recommended colon cancer screening interval warrants 
concern.
CONCLUSIONS: This case prompts serious discussion regarding the length of 
surveillance intervals in the post-transplant CF population (a population at 
20-30 times greater risk for CRC compared to the general non-CF population), as 
well as the importance of documenting endoscopic quality benchmarks, 
particularly if a narrative of interval CRC development continues to develop 
with further prospective monitoring and multi-center experience.

DOI: 10.1186/s12876-019-1052-7
PMCID: PMC6664776
PMID: 31357954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no relevant competing 
interests or ethical entanglements.


915. BMC Cancer. 2019 Jul 29;19(1):741. doi: 10.1186/s12885-019-5943-3.

Multiplex plasma protein profiling identifies novel markers to discriminate 
patients with adenocarcinoma of the lung.

Djureinovic D(1), Pontén V(2), Landelius P(3), Al Sayegh S(2), Kappert K(4), 
Kamali-Moghaddam M(5), Micke P(2), Ståhle E(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University, 751 85, 
Uppsala, Sweden. dijana.djureinovic@igp.uu.se.
(2)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University, 751 85, 
Uppsala, Sweden.
(3)Department of Surgical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(4)Institute of Laboratory Medicine, Clinical Chemistry and Pathobiochemistry, 
Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, corporate member of Freie Universität 
Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, and Berlin Institute of Health, Berlin, 
Germany.
(5)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Science for Life 
Laboratory, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: The overall prognosis of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is poor, 
and currently only patients with localized disease are potentially curable. 
Therefore, preferably non-invasively determined biomarkers that detect NSCLC 
patients at early stages of the disease are of high clinical relevance. The aim 
of this study was to identify and validate novel protein markers in plasma using 
the highly sensitive DNA-assisted multiplex proximity extension assay (PEA) to 
discriminate NSCLC from other lung diseases.
METHODS: Plasma samples were collected from a total of 343 patients who 
underwent surgical resection for different lung diseases, including 144 patients 
with lung adenocarcinoma (LAC), 68 patients with non-malignant lung disease, 83 
patients with lung metastasis of colorectal cancers and 48 patients with typical 
carcinoid. One microliter of plasma was analyzed using PEA, allowing detection 
and quantification of 92 established cancer related proteins. The concentrations 
of the plasma proteins were compared between disease groups.
RESULTS: The comparison between LAC and benign samples revealed significantly 
different plasma levels for four proteins; CXCL17, CEACAM5, VEGFR2 and ERBB3 
(adjusted p-value < 0.05). A multi-parameter classifier was developed to 
discriminate between samples from LAC patients and from patients with 
non-malignant lung conditions. With a bootstrap aggregated decision tree 
algorithm (TreeBagger), a sensitivity of 93% and specificity of 64% was achieved 
to detect LAC in this risk population.
CONCLUSIONS: By applying the highly sensitive PEA, reliable protein profiles 
could be determined in microliter amounts of plasma. We further identified 
proteins that demonstrated different plasma concentration in defined disease 
groups and developed a signature that holds potential to be included in a 
screening assay for early lung cancer detection.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-019-5943-3
PMCID: PMC6664554
PMID: 31357969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


916. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2019 Oct;236(10):3063-3079. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-019-05326-9. Epub 2019 Jul 29.

Stress, sex hormones, inflammation, and major depressive disorder: Extending 
Social Signal Transduction Theory of Depression to account for sex differences 
in mood disorders.

Slavich GM(1), Sacher J(2).

Author information:
(1)Cousins Center for Psychoneuroimmunology and Department of Psychiatry and 
Biobehavioral Sciences, University of California, Los Angeles, UCLA Medical 
Plaza 300, Room 3156, Los Angeles, CA, 90095-7076, USA. 
gslavich@mednet.ucla.edu.
(2)Emotion NeuroimaGinG (EGG)-Lab and Department of Neurology, Max Planck 
Institute for Cognitive and Brain Sciences, Stephanstrasse 1a, 04103, Leipzig, 
Germany.

Social Signal Transduction Theory of Depression is a biologically plausible, 
multi-level theory that describes neural, physiologic, molecular, and genomic 
mechanisms that link experiences of social-environmental adversity with internal 
biological processes that drive depression pathogenesis, maintenance, and 
recurrence. Central to this theory is the hypothesis that interpersonal 
stressors involving social threat (e.g., social conflict, evaluation, rejection, 
isolation, and exclusion) upregulate inflammatory processes that can induce 
several depressive symptoms, including sad mood, anhedonia, fatigue, psychomotor 
retardation, and social-behavioral withdrawal. The original article describing 
this formulation (Psychol Bull 140:774-815, 2014) addressed critical questions 
involving depression onset and recurrence, as well as why depression is strongly 
predicted by early life stress and comorbid with anxiety disorders and certain 
physical disease conditions, such as asthma, rheumatoid arthritis, chronic pain, 
and cardiovascular disease. Here, we extend the theory to help explain sex 
differences in depression prevalence, which is a defining feature of this 
disorder. Central to this extension is research demonstrating that ovarian 
hormone fluctuations modulate women's susceptibility to stress, brain structure 
and function, and inflammatory activity and reactivity. These effects are 
evident at multiple levels and are highly context-dependent, varying as a 
function of several factors including sex, age, reproductive state, endogenous 
versus exogenous hormones, and hormone administration mode and dose. Together, 
these effects help explain why women are at greater risk for developing 
inflammation-related depressed mood and other neuropsychiatric, 
neurodevelopmental, and neurodegenerative disorders during the reproductive 
years, especially for those already at heightened risk for depression or in the 
midst of a hormonal transition period.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-019-05326-9
PMCID: PMC6821593
PMID: 31359117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declare that 
they have no conflicts of interest.


917. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2019 Dec;17(6):895-902. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-019-00504-4.

What Does Society Value About Cancer Medicines? A Discrete Choice Experiment in 
the Belgian Population.

Pauwels K(1), Huys I(1), Casteels M(1), Denier Y(2), Vandebroek M(3), Simoens 
S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical and Pharmacological Sciences, KU Leuven, P.O. 
Box 521, Onderwijs en Navorsing 2, Herestraat 49, 3000, Leuven, Belgium.
(2)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, KU Leuven, 3000, Leuven, 
Belgium.
(3)Faculty of Economics and Business, KU Leuven, 3000, Leuven, Belgium.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical and Pharmacological Sciences, KU Leuven, P.O. 
Box 521, Onderwijs en Navorsing 2, Herestraat 49, 3000, Leuven, Belgium. 
steven.simoens@kuleuven.be.

BACKGROUND: Debate on pricing and reimbursement of cancer medicines highlights 
the need to establish the value of cancer medicines.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to elicit the trade-offs in cancer medicine 
characteristics that the Belgian population is willing to make.
METHODS: A discrete choice experiment used six attributes with three levels 
each, based on literature and focus group discussions. The survey was sent to a 
random sample of 3500 Belgian citizens. Based on the choice of 961 respondents, 
individual parameters were estimated with a mixed logit model.
RESULTS: Societal value of cancer medicines was positively affected by a higher 
number of patients eligible for treatment, a high initial life expectancy and 
quality of life of patients, a high gain in quality of life and life expectancy 
due to treatment, and a low treatment cost. The value of 1-year gain in life 
expectancy was independent from the initial life expectancy of the patient. 
However, the value of one-point gain in quality of life was higher for patients 
with a low initial quality of life than for patients with a high initial quality 
of life.
CONCLUSIONS: This study has shown that gain in quality of life with cancer 
medicines is valued higher by Belgian society for patients who have lower 
initial quality of life before the start of treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-019-00504-4
PMCID: PMC6885509
PMID: 31359269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: KP, IH, MC, YD, MV and SS have no conflicts of 
interest that are relevant to this manuscript.


918. Curr Oncol Rep. 2019 Jul 29;21(9):79. doi: 10.1007/s11912-019-0828-9.

Non-Melanoma Skin Cancers in the Older Patient.

Albert A(1), Knoll MA(2), Conti JA(3), Zbar RIS(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Mississippi Medical Center, 
2500 N State St, Jackson, MS, 39216, USA.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, John Theurer Cancer Center, an HMH-MSKCC 
partnership, 92 2nd St, Hackensack, NJ, 07601, USA. 
Miriam.knoll@hackensackmeridian.org.
(3)Cancer Program, Hackensack Meridian Health Mountainside Medical Center, 1 Bay 
Avenue, Montclair, NJ, 07042, USA.
(4)Division of Plastic Surgery, Hackensack Meridian Health Mountainside, 1 Bay 
Ave, Glen Ridge, NJ, 07028, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The incidence of non-melanomatous skin cancer (NMSC) 
increases with age and there are specific considerations regarding management of 
NMSC for the older patient population. Here we will review current data 
regarding treatment considerations and options for older patients with NMSC.
RECENT FINDINGS: Hypofractionated regimens and high-dose brachytherapy may be 
non-surgical treatment options for older patients with NMSC. Other less 
aggressive strategies such as active surveillance can also be considered in some 
settings. Management of NMSC in the older patient population requires a thorough 
assessment of comorbidities, frailty, and life expectancy. Additionally, 
discussions regarding goals of care and quality of life (QOL) issues are 
especially important in this population. Older patients with NMSC in particular 
may benefit from a tailored treatment plan based on current available data 
rather than a broad application of general treatment guidelines for NMSC.

DOI: 10.1007/s11912-019-0828-9
PMID: 31359294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Transl Med UniSa. 2019 Jan 6;19:49-53. eCollection 2019 Jan-Jun.

EIP on AHA Ontology for adherence: Knowledge representation advanced tools.

Román-Villarán E(1), Pérez-Leon FP(1), Escobar-Rodriguez GA(1), Parra-Calderón 
CL(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Informatics, Biomedical Engineering and Health Economy R&I Group. 
Institute of Biomedicine of Seville, IBiS/"Virgen del Rocío" University 
Hospital/CSIC/University of Seville, Seville, Spain.
(2)Head of Innovation Technology, "Virgen del Rocío" University Hospital, 
Seville, Spain.

Nowadays diseases tend to chronicle, mainly due to the increase in life 
expectancy and this leads to a state of polypharmacy. More than 1.5% of Spain's 
GDP is spent on pharmaceuticals and healthcare products. Complex chronic 
patients (pluripathological and polymedicated) account for most of the 
expenditure. The "Action Group A1" of the European Innovation Partnership 
develops in the "Active and Healthy Ageing" programme actions to improve the 
quality of life and health outcomes of these patients. On the other hand, the 
PITeS TIiSS project develops decision support tools to improve this scenario. An 
ontology has been developed as a tool on adherence. The domain of this ontology 
is mainly focused on medication adherence and measurement methods. This ontology 
gathers the necessary knowledge about the domain allowing the use of the 
ontology as part for is possible.

PMCID: PMC6581489
PMID: 31360667


920. Transl Med UniSa. 2019 Jan 6;19:90-94. eCollection 2019 Jan-Jun.

Cognitive Stimulation in Older Adults: An Innovative Good Practice Supporting 
Successful Aging and Self-Care.

Apóstolo J(1)(2), Bobrowicz-Campos E(2), Gil I(1)(2), Silva R(2)(3), Costa P(2), 
Couto F(2), Cardoso D(2), Barata A(1)(2), Almeida M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Nursing School of Coimbra, Coimbra.
(2)The Health Sciences Research Unit: Nursing, Nursing School of Coimbra, 
Coimbra.
(3)Universidade Católica Portuguesa, School of Nursing, Porto.

The project Cognitive Stimulation in Older Adults: Intervention on Cognitive 
Frailty and Promotion of Self-Care (in brief the ECOG project) arises in a 
context of worldwide demographic aging, and is fostered by the need to provide a 
sustainable solution to the progressive increase in the prevalence of 
age-related cognitive impairment. The main goal of the ECOG project is to 
promote active citizenship in old age through the empowerment for autonomy and 
self-care. Namely, the ECOG team is working on the development of evidence-based 
programs and tools that promote gains in health in cognitively frail and 
cognitively impaired older adults from the community. It is also working on the 
transfer of ECOG products to the practice of health and social care, promoting 
active involvement of geriatric care institutions in the implementation of the 
ECOG programs and tools, and ensuring appropriate training of professionals. 
Finally, the ECOG team is deploying a digital platform to reach out to the 
broadest audience possible and support the remote access and scaling up of the 
ECOG products. The impacts expected at an individual level include improvements 
in cognition, functionality, and autonomy of older adults, with simultaneous 
reduction of depressive symptomatology, and increase in quality of life of both 
person cared and his/her caregiver. Regarding societal gains, we anticipate an 
increase in life expectancy and significant postponement of institutionalization 
associated with geriatric problems. We also believe that the wide implementation 
of the ECOG products will reduce the costs of interventions for cognitively 
impaired citizens, contributing to sustainability and efficiency of health 
systems.

PMCID: PMC6581488
PMID: 31360672

Conflict of interest statement: COMPETING INTERESTS The authors declare that 
they have no competing interests.


921. Int J Eat Disord. 2019 Sep;52(9):971-976. doi: 10.1002/eat.23147. Epub 2019
Jul  30.

The posited effect of positive affect in anorexia nervosa: Advocating for a 
forgotten piece of a puzzling disease.

Coniglio KA(1), Christensen KA(2)(3), Haynos AF(4), Rienecke RD(2)(5)(6), Selby 
EA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, 
Piscataway, New Jersey.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Medical University of South 
Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina.
(3)Department of Psychology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, 
South Carolina.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a complex and life-threatening eating disorder. Current 
models of AN onset and maintenance have largely focused on the role of negative 
affect, while fewer models have described the role of positive affect (PA). 
Given that these theoretical models have informed current treatment approaches, 
and that treatment remains minimally effective for adults with AN, we advocate 
that targeting PA is one avenue for advancing maintenance models and by 
extension, treatment. We specifically propose that AN may arise and be 
chronically and pervasively maintained as a function of dysregulated PA in 
response to weight loss and weight loss behaviors (e.g., restriction, excessive 
exercise), to a degree that is not accounted for in existing models of AN. We 
present evidence from multiple domains, including biological, behavioral, and 
self-report, supporting the hypothesis that PA dysregulation in AN contributes 
to the maintenance of the disorder. We conclude with several specific avenues 
for treatment development research as well as a call for future work elucidating 
the biological correlates of PA.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/eat.23147
PMCID: PMC7176354
PMID: 31361353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2020 Mar;99(3):233-240. doi: 
10.1097/PHM.0000000000001281.

A Model-Based Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of an Exercise Program for Lung Cancer 
Survivors After Curative-Intent Treatment.

Ha D(1), Kerr J, Ries AL, Fuster MM, Lippman SM, Murphy JD.

Author information:
(1)From the Institute for Health Research, Kaiser Permanente Colorado, Aurora, 
Colorado (DH); Division of Behavioral Medicine, Department of Family Medicine 
and Public Health, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 
(JK); Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine, Department of 
Medicine, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California (DH, ALR, 
MMF); Section of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, VA San Diego Healthcare 
System, San Diego, California (MMF); Moores Cancer Center, University of 
California San Diego, La Jolla, California (SML); and Gastrointestinal and 
Palliative Radiation Oncology, Department of Radiation Medicine and Applied 
Sciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California (JDM).

OBJECTIVE: The cost-effectiveness of exercise interventions in lung cancer 
survivors is unknown. We performed a model-based cost-effectiveness analysis of 
an exercise intervention in lung cancer survivors.
DESIGN: We used Markov modeling to simulate the impact of the Lifestyle 
Interventions and Independence for Elders exercise intervention compared with 
usual care for stage I-IIIA lung cancer survivors after curative-intent 
treatment. We calculated and considered incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of 
less than US $100,000/quality-adjusted life-year as cost-effective and assessed 
model uncertainty using sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: The base-case model showed that the Lifestyle Interventions and 
Independence for Elders exercise program would increase overall cost by US $4740 
and effectiveness by 0.06 quality-adjusted life-years compared with usual care 
and have an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of US $79,504/quality-adjusted 
life-year. The model was most sensitive to the cost of the exercise program, 
probability of increasing exercise, and utility benefit related to exercise. At 
a willingness-to-pay threshold of US $100,000/quality-adjusted life-year, 
Lifestyle Interventions and Independence for Elders had a 71% probability of 
being cost-effective compared with 27% for usual care. When we included 
opportunity costs, Lifestyle Interventions and Independence for Elders had an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of US $179,774/quality-adjusted life-year, 
exceeding the cost-effectiveness threshold.
CONCLUSIONS: A simulation of the Lifestyle Interventions and Independence for 
Elders exercise intervention in lung cancer survivors demonstrates 
cost-effectiveness from an organization but not societal perspective. A similar 
exercise program for lung cancer survivors may be cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1097/PHM.0000000000001281
PMCID: PMC6982544
PMID: 31361623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: a) Conflict of Interest: All authors declare no 
conflict of interest exists


923. Ann Thorac Surg. 2020 Mar;109(3):e161-e162. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2019.05.093. Epub 2019 Jul 27.

Venoarterial Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation in Sickle Cell Disease for 
Urgent Cardiac Surgery.

de Roux Q(1), Maghrebi S(2), Fiore A(3), Arminot-Fremaux M(2), Dessalle T(2), 
Lim P(4), Folliguet T(5), Bartolucci P(6), Langeron O(7), Mongardon N(8).

Author information:
(1)Service d'Anesthésie-Réanimation Chirurgicale, CHU Henri Mondor, Assistance 
Publique des Hôpitaux de Paris, Créteil, France; U955-IMRB, Equipe 03 
"Stratégies pharmacologiques et thérapeutiques expérimentales des insuffisances 
cardiaques et coronaires," Inserm, UPEC, Ecole Nationale Vétérinaire d'Alfort, 
Maisons-Alfort, France.
(2)Service d'Anesthésie-Réanimation Chirurgicale, CHU Henri Mondor, Assistance 
Publique des Hôpitaux de Paris, Créteil, France.
(3)Service de Chirurgie Cardiaque, CHU Henri Mondor, Assistance Publique des 
Hôpitaux de Paris, Créteil, France.
(4)Service de Cardiologie, CHU Henri Mondor, Assistance Publique des Hôpitaux de 
Paris, Créteil, France.
(5)Service de Chirurgie Cardiaque, CHU Henri Mondor, Assistance Publique des 
Hôpitaux de Paris, Créteil, France; Faculté de Médecine, Université Paris-Est 
Créteil, Créteil, France.
(6)Faculté de Médecine, Université Paris-Est Créteil, Créteil, France; Unité des 
Maladies Génétiques du Globule Rouge, CHU Henri Mondor, Assistance Publique des 
Hôpitaux de Paris, Créteil, France.
(7)Service d'Anesthésie-Réanimation Chirurgicale, CHU Henri Mondor, Assistance 
Publique des Hôpitaux de Paris, Créteil, France; Faculté de Médecine, Université 
Paris-Est Créteil, Créteil, France.
(8)Service d'Anesthésie-Réanimation Chirurgicale, CHU Henri Mondor, Assistance 
Publique des Hôpitaux de Paris, Créteil, France; Faculté de Médecine, Université 
Paris-Est Créteil, Créteil, France; U955-IMRB, Equipe 03 "Stratégies 
pharmacologiques et thérapeutiques expérimentales des insuffisances cardiaques 
et coronaires," Inserm, UPEC, Ecole Nationale Vétérinaire d'Alfort, 
Maisons-Alfort, France. Electronic address: nicolas.mongardon@aphp.fr.

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is among the most common genetic diseases, with a 
recent increase in life expectancy. Patients may therefore need similar surgical 
procedures as does the general population, including cardiac surgery. 
Cardiopulmonary bypass is a homeostasis challenge for SCD patients, with high 
risk of vasoocclusive crisis. In the most severe cases of cardiogenic shock, 
venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VA-ECMO) may be required, with 
prolonged exposure to extreme nonphysiological conditions. We report a case of 
postcardiotomy shock in an SCD patient successfully managed with VA-ECMO. This 
highlights that SCD should not be a counterindication to VA-ECMO, pending 
multidisciplinary management.

Copyright © 2020 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2019.05.093
PMID: 31362014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Bone Joint J. 2019 Aug;101-B(8):995-1001. doi: 
10.1302/0301-620X.101B8.BJJ-2018-1253.R2.

Routine fixation of displaced midshaft clavicle fractures is not cost-effective: 
a cost analysis from a randomized controlled trial.

Nicholson JA(1), Clement N(1), Goudie EB(1), Robinson CM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.

AIMS: The primary aim of this study was to establish the cost-effectiveness of 
the early fixation of displaced midshaft clavicle fractures.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A cost analysis was conducted within a randomized 
controlled trial comparing conservative management (n = 92) versus early plate 
fixation (n = 86) of displaced midshaft clavicular fractures. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was used to express the cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). The Six-Dimension Short-Form Health Survey 
(SF-6D) score was used as the preference-based health index to calculate the 
cost per QALY at 12 months after the injury.
RESULTS: The mean 12-month SF-6D was 0.9522 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.9355 
to 0.9689) following conservative management and 0.9607 (95% CI 0.9447 to 
0.9767) following fixation, giving an advantage for fixation of 0.0085, which 
was not statistically significant (p = 0.46). The mean cost per patient was 
£1322.69 for conservative management and £5405.32 for early fixation. This gave 
an ICER of £480 309.41 per QALY. For a threshold of £20 000 per QALY, the 
benefit of fixation would need to be present for 24 years to be cost-effective 
compared with conservative treatment. Linear regression analysis identified 
nonunion as the only factor to adversely influence the SF-6D at 12 months (p < 
0.001).
CONCLUSION: Routine plate fixation of displaced midshaft clavicular fractures is 
not cost-effective. Nonunion following conservative management has an increased 
morbidity with comparable expense to early fixation. This may suggest that a 
targeted approach of fixation in patients who are at higher risk of nonunion 
would be more cost-effective than the routine fixation of all displaced 
fractures. Cite this article: Bone Joint J 2019;101-B:995-1001.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.101B8.BJJ-2018-1253.R2
PMID: 31362556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. World J Orthop. 2019 Jul 18;10(7):262-267. doi: 10.5312/wjo.v10.i7.262. 
eCollection 2019 Jul 18.

Exercise as medicine to be prescribed in osteoarthritis.

Ravalli S(1), Castrogiovanni P(1), Musumeci G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical and Biotechnological Sciences, Human Anatomy and 
Histology Section, School of Medicine, University of Catania, Catania 95125, 
Italy.

Inactivity contributes to chronic diseases, including diabetes, hypertension, 
cardiovascular disorders, and obesity. Sedentary habits can shorten life 
expectancy. Exercise has been widely proposed as a valuable approach to 
prevention. Regular physical activity, as part of one's daily routine, may help 
to manage pathological conditions. This editorial especially addresses 
osteoarthritis (OA), a degenerative disease of the articular cartilage, which is 
one of the most common causes of disability worldwide. Standard treatments for 
this illness include surgical procedures and pharmacological management; 
behavioural approaches are also strongly recommended. Physical exercise 
represents a practical strategy to preserve function, decrease pain and fatigue, 
and increase muscle strength and flexibility. We suggest that physical activity 
be considered as an established form of treatment, which means including 
exercise in standard therapeutic guidelines. A growing number of patients suffer 
from preventable chronic conditions that impose a heavy social and economic 
burden on the healthcare system. Preventive exercise training should be 
prescribed in the same way as pharmaceuticals.

DOI: 10.5312/wjo.v10.i7.262
PMCID: PMC6650634
PMID: 31363456

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: All other 
authors have no competing interests to declare.


926. Future Healthc J. 2019 Jun;6(2):99-105. doi: 10.7861/futurehosp.6-2-99.

Health and care spending and its value, past, present and future.

Watt T(1), Charlesworth A(1), Gershlick B(1).

Author information:
(1)The Health Foundation, London, UK.

In times of relatively low public spending in the UK since 2009-2010, health 
spending has been protected above all else. At the same time budgets for 
education, housing and public safety have fallen. This is in part due to the 
presence of growing demand for healthcare: while the population has increased by 
around one-third since 1950, healthcare spending as a share on national income 
has more than doubled. Continuing increases in quantity and complexity of the 
use of the health service as well as the unit costs indicate that these 
pressures will not be alleviated any time soon. However, there are clear 
benefits to investing in health; research finds that a 10% increase in health 
spending was associated with a gain of 3.5 months of life expectancy across the 
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development from 1995 to 2015. In 
this paper, we discuss the potential value of additional -spending.

DOI: 10.7861/futurehosp.6-2-99
PMCID: PMC6616184
PMID: 31363514


927. Genes Genomics. 2019 Nov;41(11):1315-1327. doi: 10.1007/s13258-019-00846-2.
Epub  2019 Jul 30.

Comparative transcriptome analysis reveals higher expression of stress and 
defense responsive genes in dwarf soybeans obtained from the crossing of G. max 
and G. soja.

Ban YW(1)(2), Roy NS(1)(3), Yang H(4), Choi HK(5), Kim JH(5), Babu P(2), Ha 
KS(6), Ham JK(6), Park KC(1), Choi IY(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agriculture and Life Industry, Kangwon National University, 
Chuncheon, 24341, South Korea.
(2)Department of Forest Environmental System, Kangwon National University, 
Chuncheon, 24341, South Korea.
(3)Agriculture and Life Sciences Research Institute, Kangwon National 
University, Chuncheon, 24341, South Korea.
(4)Laboratory of Natural Products Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, Kangwon 
National University, Chuncheon, 24341, South Korea.
(5)Department of Molecular Genetics, Dong-A University, Busan, 49315, South 
Korea.
(6)Gangwondo Agricultural Research and Extension Services, Chuncheon, 24226, 
South Korea.
(7)Department of Agriculture and Life Industry, Kangwon National University, 
Chuncheon, 24341, South Korea. choii@kangwon.ac.kr.
(8)Agriculture and Life Sciences Research Institute, Kangwon National 
University, Chuncheon, 24341, South Korea. choii@kangwon.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: Plant height is an important component of plant architecture and 
significantly affects crop breeding practices and yield. Dwarfism in plants 
prevents lodging and therefore it's a desired trait in crops.
OBJECTIVE: To find differentially expressed genes to classify and understand the 
regulation of genes related to plant growth in mutant dwarf soybeans, which 
appeared in the F5 generation.
METHODS: We obtained a few segregated dwarf soybeans in the populations derived 
from the crossing of Glycine max var. Peking and Glycine soja var. IT182936 in 
an F5 RIL population. These dwarf soybeans may be useful genetic resources for 
plant breeders, geneticists and biologists. Using the Illumina high-throughput 
platform, transcriptomes were generated and compared among normal and dwarf 
soybeans in triplicate.
CONCLUSION: We found complex relationship of the expressed genes to plant 
growth. There were highly significantly up-/downregulated genes according to the 
comparison of gene expression in normal and dwarf soybeans. The genes related to 
disease and stress responses were found to be upregulated in dwarf soybeans. 
Such over-expression of disease resistance and other immune response genes can 
be targeted to understand how the immune genes regulate the response of plant 
growth. In addition, photosynthesis-related genes showed very low expression in 
dwarf lines. The transcriptome expression and genes classified as related to 
plant growth may be useful resources to researchers studying plant growth.

