
Author information:
(1)Molecular Aging Laboratory, National Institute of Immunology, 110067 New 
Delhi, India.
(2)Chemical and Systems Biology Unit, Council of Scientific and Industrial 
Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, 110025 New Delhi, India.
(3)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research, Council of Scientific and 
Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, 110025 New 
Delhi, India.
(4)Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience Laboratory, National Brain Research 
Center, NH-8, Manesar, 122051 Gurugram, Haryana, India.
(5)Molecular Aging Laboratory, National Institute of Immunology, 110067 New 
Delhi, India; arnab@nii.ac.in.

Unfolded protein response (UPR) of the endoplasmic reticulum (UPRER) helps 
maintain proteostasis in the cell. The ability to mount an effective UPRER to 
external stress (iUPRER) decreases with age and is linked to the pathophysiology 
of multiple age-related disorders. Here, we show that a transient 
pharmacological ER stress, imposed early in development on Caenorhabditis 
elegans, enhances proteostasis, prevents iUPRER decline with age, and increases 
adult life span. Importantly, dietary restriction (DR), that has a conserved 
positive effect on life span, employs this mechanism of ER hormesis for 
longevity assurance. We found that only the IRE-1-XBP-1 branch of UPRER is 
required for the longevity effects, resulting in increased ER-associated 
degradation (ERAD) gene expression and degradation of ER resident proteins 
during DR. Further, both ER hormesis and DR protect against polyglutamine 
aggregation in an IRE-1-dependent manner. We show that the DR-specific FOXA 
transcription factor PHA-4 transcriptionally regulates the genes required for ER 
homeostasis and is required for ER preconditioning-induced life span extension. 
Finally, we show that ER hormesis improves proteostasis and viability in a 
mammalian cellular model of neurodegenerative disease. Together, our study 
identifies a mechanism by which DR offers its benefits and opens the possibility 
of using ER-targeted pharmacological interventions to mimic the prolongevity 
effects of DR.

Copyright © 2019 the Author(s). Published by PNAS.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1900055116
PMCID: PMC6717303
PMID: 31413197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


81. Nat Commun. 2019 Aug 14;10(1):3658. doi: 10.1038/s41467-019-11165-1.

Coherent anti-Stokes Raman spectroscopy of single and multi-layer graphene.

Virga A(1)(2), Ferrante C(3)(4), Batignani G(1), De Fazio D(5), Nunn ADG(2), 
Ferrari AC(5), Cerullo G(6), Scopigno T(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Fisica, Universitá di Roma, "La Sapienza", I-00185, Roma, 
Italy.
(2)Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Center for Life Nano Science @Sapienza, 
Roma, I-00161, Italy.
(3)Dipartimento di Fisica, Universitá di Roma, "La Sapienza", I-00185, Roma, 
Italy. carino.ferrante@iit.it.
(4)Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Graphene Labs, Via Morego 30, I-16163, 
Genova, Italy. carino.ferrante@iit.it.
(5)Cambridge Graphene Centre, Cambridge University, 9 JJ Thomson Avenue, 
Cambridge, CB3 OFA, UK.
(6)IFN-CNR, Dipartimento di Fisica, Politecnico di Milano, P.zza L. da Vinci 32, 
20133, Milano, Italy.
(7)Dipartimento di Fisica, Universitá di Roma, "La Sapienza", I-00185, Roma, 
Italy. tullio.scopigno@roma1.infn.it.
(8)Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Graphene Labs, Via Morego 30, I-16163, 
Genova, Italy. tullio.scopigno@roma1.infn.it.

Spontaneous Raman spectroscopy is a powerful characterization tool for graphene 
research. Its extension to the coherent regime, despite the large nonlinear 
third-order susceptibility of graphene, has so far proven challenging. Due to 
its gapless nature, several interfering electronic and phononic transitions 
concur to generate its optical response, preventing to retrieve spectral 
profiles analogous to those of spontaneous Raman. Here we report stimulated 
Raman spectroscopy of the G-phonon in single and multi-layer graphene, through 
coherent anti-Stokes Raman Scattering. The nonlinear signal is dominated by a 
vibrationally non-resonant background, obscuring the Raman lineshape. We 
demonstrate that the vibrationally resonant coherent anti-Stokes Raman 
Scattering peak can be measured by reducing the temporal overlap of the laser 
excitation pulses, suppressing the vibrationally non-resonant background. We 
model the spectra, taking into account the electronically resonant nature of 
both. We show how coherent anti-Stokes Raman Scattering can be used for graphene 
imaging with vibrational sensitivity.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-019-11165-1
PMCID: PMC6694162
PMID: 31413256

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


82. J Food Sci Technol. 2019 Aug;56(8):3777-3789. doi:
10.1007/s13197-019-03846-y.  Epub 2019 Jun 11.

Addition of seaweed powder and sulphated polysaccharide on shelf_life extension 
of functional fish surimi restructured product.

Jannat-Alipour H(1), Rezaei M(1), Shabanpour B(2), Tabarsa M(1), Rafipour F(3).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Seafood Processing, Faculty of Marine Sciences, Tarbiat 
Modares University, Noor, Iran.
(2)Department of Fisheries, University of Agricultural Sciences and Natural 
Resources, Gorgan, Iran.
(3)National Research Center of Aquatics Processing, Anzali, Iran.

This study aimed to investigate the performance of equal amounts of edible green 
seaweed, Ulva intestinalis powder (2.77 g kg-1), and its sulphated 
polysaccharide ([USP], 0.5 g kg-1, based on the extraction yield from U. 
intestinalis powder) on the proximate compositions, lipid oxidation, pH, colour, 
textural properties, cooking yield and sensory attributes of fish-surimi 
restructured products during storage at - 18 °C as compared with the control. 
Results showed incorporation of two functional components resulted in lower 
TBARS values compared with the control over 6 months (P ≤ 0.05). The USP 
incorporated fingers showed the least moisture loss over 6 months (P < 0.05). 
Textural properties for two functional fingers remained relatively stable from 
month 0 to month 6, while the hardness increased significantly (P < 0.05) in the 
control fingers (67 to 80 N). Additionally, the sensory attributes of all 
formulated fingers were judged acceptable; however, the USP containing fingers 
were preferred by the sensory panelists, due to their juicy texture as a result 
of less cooking loss comparing with others. In conclusion, this study suggests 
the potential use of such natural marine ingredients to maintain the quality and 
to extend the shelf life of surimi-based products with beneficial health 
effects.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-019-03846-y
PMCID: PMC6675849
PMID: 31413404


83. Indian J Palliat Care. 2019 Jul-Sep;25(3):455-461. doi:
10.4103/IJPC.IJPC_20_19.

Understanding the Frontiers of Human Longevity in India: Imperative and 
Palliative Care.

Kumar Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of School and Non-Formal Education, Unit on School Standard and 
Evaluation, National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration, New 
Delhi, India.

This article provides a theoretical and empirical insight on the study of 
population aging in India, with the special reference to the causes that have 
made it extremely significant. It evidently looks into the factors that are 
extensively associated with the process of population aging and have contributed 
to the Indian society. Demographically speaking, in the Indian context, the 
process of demographic transition has resulted from a falling birth rate, a 
slowing death rate, and spike in life expectancy. In the context of developing 
countries, the concept of population aging has been brought from developed 
countries. Initially, the outcomes of demographic transition had been 
experienced by developed regions followed by the rest of the world. Finally, it 
examines the consequences of complications that arise due to growth in life 
expectancy at birth, and further suggests the probable remedies to both strategy 
developers and policy-makers.

DOI: 10.4103/IJPC.IJPC_20_19
PMCID: PMC6659526
PMID: 31413464

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


84. Indian J Palliat Care. 2019 Jul-Sep;25(3):462-467. doi:
10.4103/IJPC.IJPC_24_19.

Complementary Role of Intervention Radiology in Palliative Care in Oncology 
Setting.

Dhamija E(1), Deshmukh A(1), Meena P(1), Kumar M(1), Bhatnagar S(2), Thulkar 
S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiodiagnosis, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New 
Delhi, India.
(2)Department of Onco-Anaesthesia and Palliative Medicine, All India Institute 
of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.

Owing to advances in treatment of cancer, there has been increase in life 
expectancy. Palliative care aims at improving quality of life of patients 
suffering from malignancy and is now recognized as a separate subspecialty. 
Management of cancer patients needs a multidisciplinary approach, and radiology 
has a key role to play at every step of it. Interventional radiology has 
broadened its scope immensely over the last decade with development of newer and 
less invasive applications useful in oncology and palliative care. The role of 
interventional radiologists begins from obtaining tissue for histopathological 
examination and extends to controlling disease spread with ablation or 
chemoembolization, to managing the tumor-related complications and relieving 
stressful symptoms such as dyspnea and pain. This article aims to review the 
interventional radiologist's arsenal in managing patients with malignancies with 
a special emphasis on palliative care, providing a more holistic approach in 
improving the quality of life of cancer patients.

DOI: 10.4103/IJPC.IJPC_24_19
PMCID: PMC6659525
PMID: 31413465

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


85. J Patient Cent Res Rev. 2017 Nov 6;4(4):213-220. doi:
10.17294/2330-0698.1576.  eCollection 2017 Fall.

Life Expectancy at Birth in Milwaukee County: A Zip Code-Level Analysis.

LeCounte ES(1), Swain GR(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)City of Milwaukee Health Department, Milwaukee, WI.
(2)Department of Family Medicine and Community Health, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI.
(3)Center for Urban Population Health, Milwaukee, WI.

PURPOSE: Life expectancy at birth is used as a barometer of the health and 
well-being of a population. Life expectancies vary widely across Wisconsin 
counties. While much of the analysis of life expectancy in Wisconsin has focused 
on counties, there may be important differences in life expectancy within 
counties by zip code.
METHODS: To calculate life expectancy, death count data and population estimates 
were entered into an abridged life table using the Chiang methodology. Data were 
linked with measures from the American Community Survey to examine the 
relationship between life expectancy and zip code characteristics.
RESULTS: Life expectancy varies greatly across zip codes in Milwaukee County. 
Overall, there was a 12-year difference in the life expectancy of children born 
into zip codes with the lowest and highest life expectancy: 53206 (71.3 years) 
and 53217 (83.2 years). There was a strong positive correlation between life 
expectancy and median household income (r=0.784, P<0.0001), educational 
attainment of a bachelor's degree or higher (r=0.741, P<0.0001) and the 
socioeconomic index combining education and income (r=0.819, P<0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Disparities in life expectancy within Milwaukee County are stark 
and correlate with differences in social and economic factors. To improve health 
outcomes such as life expectancy, health care practitioners and health care 
systems must become more involved in activities at the social and policy levels 
to improve social and economic conditions that would allow their patients to 
live healthier and longer lives.

DOI: 10.17294/2330-0698.1576
PMCID: PMC6664354
PMID: 31413985

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest None.


86. Adv Clin Exp Med. 2019 Sep;28(9):1271-1279. doi: 10.17219/acem/104553.

Echocardiographic evaluation of left ventricular strain in severe aortic 
stenosis with therapeutic implications and risk stratification.

Goździk AT(1), Jasiński M(1), Goździk W(2).

Author information:
(1)Department and Clinic of Cardiac Surgery, Wroclaw Medical University, Poland.
(2)Department and Clinic of Anesthesiology and Intensive Therapy, Wroclaw 
Medical University, Poland.

Degenerative aortic stenosis (AS) is an increasingly common acquired valvular 
heart disease in adults due to the extension of life expectancy in the 
population of developing countries. The occurrence of calcifications and 
associated severe aortic stenosis (SAS) increases with age and affects approx. 
3-5% of people over 75 years of age. The basis for the decision on the date and 
type of therapy is echocardiographic evaluation of the severity of the AS and 
left ventricular (LV) function as well as clinical signs. It appears that the 
use of newer, more precise methods in echocardiography, especially in patients 
with preserved ejection fraction (pEF), may change our management in qualifying 
for valve replacement, especially in asymptomatic patients with SAS. The aim of 
this review study is echocardiographic strain analysis and evaluation of strain 
of LV myocardial fibers in patients with SAS, using the speckle tracking 
echocardiography (STE). This evaluation allows for risk stratification of a 
valve disease and the choice of the appropriate therapy method.

DOI: 10.17219/acem/104553
PMID: 31414735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Mycologia. 2019 Sep-Oct;111(5):857-870. doi: 10.1080/00275514.2019.1640012.
Epub  2019 Aug 15.

Six new species and two new records of Morchella in China using phylogenetic and 
morphological analyses.

Du XH(1), Wu DM(2), He GQ(3), Wei W(1), Xu N(1), Li TL(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Chongqing Normal University , Chongqing , 401331 , 
China.
(2)Biotechnology Research Institute, Xinjiang Agricultural Reclamation Academy 
of Sciences , Shihezi 832000 , China.
(3)Beijing Agricultural Technology Extension Station , Beijing 100049 , China.

Erratum in
    Mycologia. 2020 Mar-Apr;112(2):454.

In this paper, species of the genus Morchella are investigated in China. Based 
on morphological characteristics and molecular phylogenetic analyses of the nuc 
rDNA internal transcribed spacer region ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 (ITS) and the combined 
data set ITS + nuclear large subunit rDNA (28S) + the translation elongation 
factor 1-α (TEF1) gene + RNA polymerase II first largest subunit (RPB1) + RNA 
polymerase II second largest subunit (RPB2), six new phylogenetic species are 
illustrated and described: M. clivicola, M. confusa, M. odonnellii, M. owneri, 
M. yangii, and M. yishuica. Furthermore, two new record species, M. dunensis and 
M. palazonii, which were only known in Europe, are now reported for the first 
time from Asia. New species of morels will provide additional information on 
species diversity and genetic resource candidates for improving the cultivation 
of this economically important fungus.

DOI: 10.1080/00275514.2019.1640012
PMID: 31414967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2020 Mar;43(2):318-325. doi: 10.1002/jimd.12159. Epub
2019  Sep 8.

Detailed profile of cognitive dysfunction in children with 
aspartylglucosaminuria.

Harjunen EL(1), Laine M(1), Tikkanen R(2), Helenius P(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Child Neurology, Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, Finland.
(2)Institute of Biochemistry, Medical Faculty, University of Giessen, Giessen, 
Germany.

Aspartylglucosaminuria (AGU) is a rare, recessively inherited lysosomal disease 
with relatively high prevalence in Finnish population. This progressive disease 
has a vast impact on patient's cognition and physical health, leading to 
intellectual disability and shorter life expectancy. Cognitive functions of 21 
7- to 14-year-old children with AGU were studied cross-sectionally using 
Wechsler's Intelligence Scale for Children IV and the results were compared with 
a standardized Finnish sample. In addition to overall cognitive performance, 
abilities in discrete cognitive domains, including verbal comprehension, 
perceptual reasoning, working memory, and processing speed, were examined. The 
results showed that despite the very low overall level of cognitive performance, 
there were notable differences between individuals. All those children whose 
performance was closer to their own age level were 7 to 10 years old. Processing 
speed appeared more compromised, as compared with verbal comprehension. 
Furthermore, examining the subtest raw scores, there were no significant 
positive correlations between age and subtest scores, suggesting that the 
developmental level of AGU children could be rather stable throughout ages 7 to 
14. This study gives insight to the severe nature of AGU disease. Since younger 
children performed better compared to their age norms than older children, the 
results raise a question whether the highest peak in cognitive functions is 
reached at an earlier age than previously thought.

© 2019 SSIEM.

DOI: 10.1002/jimd.12159
PMID: 31415096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. J Am Acad Orthop Surg. 2019 Nov 15;27(22):834-839. doi: 
10.5435/JAAOS-D-17-00713.

Musculoskeletal Effects of Antineoplastic Agents.

Sutton K(1), Sanft TB, Knobf TM, Ibe IK.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Oncology, Yale New Haven Hospital, Yale University 
(Dr. Sutton and Dr. Knobf), the Department of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, 
Yale New Haven Hospital, Yale University (Dr. Ibe), New Haven, CT, and the 
Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Sports Medicine, Hospital for Special 
Surgery, Stamford, CT (Dr. Sanft).

Cancer remains a common disease with approximately 40% of Americans diagnosed 
with cancer in their lifetime. Medical advances in the field of oncology have 
led to an increased life expectancy and a decreased mortality rate. 
Antineoplastic agents such as taxanes and targeted therapies are indicated in 
the treatment of many cancers, and their use can be associated with various 
musculoskeletal complaints and adverse effects. Orthopaedic Surgeons are trained 
to identify primary bone tumors and metastasis to bones. It is also important 
for them to have an understanding of the profile of musculoskeletal adverse 
effects associated with the treatment of the more common neoplasms. This article 
reviews the current literature on the commonly used chemotherapeutic agents and 
their associated musculoskeletal effects.

DOI: 10.5435/JAAOS-D-17-00713
PMID: 31415297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. PLoS One. 2019 Aug 15;14(8):e0219367. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0219367. 
eCollection 2019.

The change in age distribution of CAP population in Korea with an estimation of 
clinical implications of increasing age threshold of current CURB65 and CRB65 
scoring system.

Kim B(1), Kim J(1), Jo YH(1), Lee JH(1), Hwang JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 
Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND: CURB65 and CRB65 score are simple and popular methods to estimate 
the mortality in patients with community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). Although 
there has been a global increase in life expectancy and population ageing, we 
are still using the same age threshold derived from patients in late 1990s to 
calculate the scores. We sought to assess the implication of using higher age 
threshold using Korean population data and a single center hospital records.
METHODS: Using Korean National Health Insurance Service-National Sample Cohort 
(NHIS-NSC), we analyzed annual age distribution of CAP patients in Korea from 
2005 to 2013 and report how patients aged >65 years increased over time. We also 
assessed annual change in test characteristics of various age threshold in 
Korean CAP population. Using a single center hospital registry of CAP patients 
(2008-2017), we analyzed test characteristics of CURB65 and CRB65 scores with 
various age thresholds.
RESULTS: 116,481 CAP cases were identified from NHIS-NSC dataset. The proportion 
of patients aged >65 increased by 1.01% (95% CI, 0.70%-1.33%, P<0.001) every 
year. In the sample Korean population dataset, age threshold showed its peak 
AUROC (0.829) at 70. In the hospital dataset, 7,197 cases were included for 
analysis. The AUROC of both CRB65 and CURB65 was maximized at 71. When CRB71 was 
applied instead of CRB65 for hospital referral using score <1 to define a 
low-risk case, the potential hospital referral was significantly decreased 
(72.9% to 64.6%, P<0.001) without any significant increase in 1-month mortality 
in the low risk group (0.6% to 0.7%, P = 0.690).
CONCLUSION: There was a significant age shift in CAP population in Korea. 
Increasing the current age threshold of CURB65 (or CRB65) could be a viable 
option to reduce ever-increasing hospital referrals and admissions of CAP 
patients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0219367
PMCID: PMC6695142
PMID: 31415581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


91. PLoS One. 2019 Aug 15;14(8):e0220439. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0220439. 
eCollection 2019.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of bilateral cochlear implants for children with 
severe-to-profound sensorineural hearing loss in both ears in Singapore.

Cheng LJ(1), Soon SS(1), Wu DB(1), Ju H(1), Ng K(1).

Author information:
(1)Agency for Care Effectiveness, Ministry of Health, Singapore, Singapore.

A cochlear implant is a small electronic device that provides a sense of sound 
for the user, which can be used unilaterally or bilaterally. Although there is 
advocacy for the benefits of binaural hearing, the high cost of cochlear implant 
raises the question of whether its additional benefits over the use of an 
acoustic hearing aid in the contralateral ear outweigh its costs. This 
cost-effectiveness analysis aimed to separately assess the cost-effectiveness of 
simultaneous and sequential bilateral cochlear implantations compared to bimodal 
hearing (use of unilateral cochlear implant combined with an acoustic hearing 
aid in the contralateral ear) in children with severe-to-profound sensorineural 
hearing loss in both ears from the Singapore healthcare payer perspective. 
Incremental quality-adjusted life year (QALYs) gained and costs associated with 
bilateral cochlear implants over the lifetime horizon were estimated based on a 
four-state Markov model. The analysis results showed that, at the 2017 mean 
cost, compared to bimodal hearing, patients receiving bilateral cochlear 
implants experienced more QALYs but incurred higher costs, resulting in an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of USD$60,607 per QALY gained for 
simultaneous bilateral cochlear implantation, and USD$81,782 per QALY gained for 
sequential bilateral cochlear implantation. The cost-effectiveness of bilateral 
cochlear implants is most sensitive to utility gain associated with second 
cochlear implant, and cost of bilateral cochlear implants. ICERs increased when 
the utility gain from bilateral cochlear implants decreased; ICERs exceeded 
USD$120,000 per QALY gained when the utility gain was halved from 0.03 to 0.015 
in both simultaneous and sequential bilateral cochlear implantations. The choice 
of incremental utility gain associated with the second cochlear implant is an 
area of considerable uncertainty.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0220439
PMCID: PMC6695111
PMID: 31415595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


92. Cas Lek Cesk. 2019 Summer;158(3-4):151-155.

How to reduce stigmatization of people with mental illness in medical education: 
READ intervention.

[Article in English]

Janoušková M, Formánek T, Zrnečková M, Alexová A, Hejzlar M, Chrtková D, Vítková 
M, Roboch Z, Motlová LB.

Stigmatization of people with mental illness in health care is a serious problem 
contributing to poor provision of health care and preventive medicine, it 
decreases their willingness to seek help and reduces quality of their life and 
life expectancy. The aim of this study is to evaluate the impact of the 
anti-stigma training READ on medical students during their psychiatric module. 
The training was held by a psychiatrist and a peer lecturer. This study is a 
part of the international project INDIGO. A total of 53 medical students 
participated in this study (32 in intervention group, 21 in control group). 
Participants completed questionnaire at baseline and at immediate follow-up. It 
contained scales measuring attitudes, knowledge, empathy and intergroup anxiety. 
The intervention group demonstrated reductions in stigma-related attitudes, 
improvements in mental illness knowledge and reductions in intergroup anxiety. 
At immediate follow-up the control group demonstrated improvements in mental 
illness knowledge and reductions in intergroup anxiety. Based on the results of 
this study common psychiatric module at the medical school (including 
theoretical and practical education) does not contribute to the sufficient 
reduction of stigma. The training READ with an involvement of peer lecturers 
appears to be a convenient instrument how to reduce stigmatization of people 
with mental illness at medical schools. The contact with people who are not in 
the acute state of the illness is crucial for destigmatization.

PMID: 31416324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2019 Sep;178:11-18. doi: 
10.1016/j.cmpb.2019.06.004. Epub 2019 Jun 5.

Estimation of life expectancies using continuous-time multi-state models.

van den Hout A(1), Sum Chan M(2), Matthews F(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistical Science, University College London Gower Street, 
London WC1E 6BT, UK. Electronic address: ardo.vandenhout@ucl.ac.uk.
(2)University College London and University of Oxford, UK.
(3)Newcastle University, UK.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: There is increasing interest in multi-state modelling 
of health-related stochastic processes. Given a fitted multi-state model with 
one death state, it is possible to estimate state-specific and marginal life 
expectancies. This paper introduces methods and new software for computing these 
expectancies.
METHODS: The definition of state-specific life expectancy given current age is 
an extension of mean survival in standard survival analysis. The computation 
involves the estimated parameters of a fitted multi-state model, and numerical 
integration. The new R package elect provides user-friendly functions to do the 
computation in the R software.
RESULTS: The estimation of life expectancies is explained and illustrated using 
the elect package. Functions are presented to explore the data, to estimate the 
life expectancies, and to present results.
CONCLUSIONS: State-specific life expectancies provide a communicable 
representation of health-related processes. The availability and explanation of 
the elect package will help researchers to compute life expectancies and to 
present their findings in an assessable way.

Crown Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2019.06.004
PMID: 31416539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Blood Rev. 2019 Nov;38:100594. doi: 10.1016/j.blre.2019.100594. Epub 2019 Aug
7.

Management of the aging beta-thalassemia transfusion-dependent population - The 
Italian experience.

Pinto VM(1), Poggi M(2), Russo R(3), Giusti A(4), Forni GL(5).

Author information:
(1)Centro della Microcitemia, Anemie Congenite e Dismetabolismo del Ferro, 
European Reference Networks for rare diseases ERN-EuroBloodNet, Ospedale 
Galliera, Mura Delle Cappuccine 14, 16128 Genoa, Italy. Electronic address: 
valeria.pinto@galliera.it.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Sant'Andrea Hospital, via di Grottarossa 
1035-1039, 00189 Rome, Italy. Electronic address: mpoggi@ospedalesantandrea.it.
(3)Nephrology, Dialysis, and Transplant Unit, Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, 
Largo R. Benzi 10, 16132 Genoa, Italy. Electronic address: 
rodolfo.russo@hsanmartino.it.
(4)Rheumatology Unit, Department of Locomotor System, La Colletta Hospital - 
ASL3, Via del Giappone 5, 16011 Arenzano, Italy. Electronic address: 
andreagiusti6613@gmail.com.
(5)Centro della Microcitemia, Anemie Congenite e Dismetabolismo del Ferro, 
European Reference Networks for rare diseases ERN-EuroBloodNet, Ospedale 
Galliera, Mura Delle Cappuccine 14, 16128 Genoa, Italy. Electronic address: 
gianluca.forni@galliera.it.

Thalassemia is among the most common monogenic diseases worldwide. Stem cell 
transplantation can be curative but is reserved for young patients, as probably 
gene therapy will be in the future. Adult thalassemia patients are treated with 
transfusion therapy and iron chelation, and improvements in the safety of 
transfusion protocols, use of iron chelation, monitoring of iron overload, and 
management of comorbidities have substantially prolonged survival, increasing 
the proportion of adult patients in the thalassemic population. However, older 
patients are more likely to develop multiple disease-related morbidities, 
including osteoporosis, endocrine disorders, liver disease, renal dysfunction, 
and cancer. Thus, the main objective of this article is to describe new 
challenges posed by the increasing life expectancy of patients with thalassemia, 
focusing on data from Italy where there is a well-documented history of 
thalassemia management. It is hoped that the mortality and morbidity benefits 
already seen in patients with thalassemia will continue to improve with ongoing 
advances in the quality of treatment.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.blre.2019.100594
PMID: 31416718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Clin Genitourin Cancer. 2019 Oct;17(5):395-401. doi:
10.1016/j.clgc.2019.07.008.  Epub 2019 Jul 19.

A 25-year Period Analysis of Other-cause Mortality in Localized Prostate Cancer.

Knipper S(1), Pecoraro A(2), Palumbo C(3), Rosiello G(4), Luzzago S(5), Tian 
Z(6), Briganti A(7), Saad F(6), Tilki D(8), Graefen M(9), Karakiewicz PI(6).

Author information:
(1)Martini-Klinik Prostate Cancer Center, University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg, Germany; Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, Division of 
Urology, University of Montreal Health Center, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. 
Electronic address: a.knipper@uke.de.
(2)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, Division of Urology, University 
of Montreal Health Center, Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Department of Urology, San 
Luigi Gonzaga Hospital, University of Turin, Turin, Italy.
(3)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, Division of Urology, University 
of Montreal Health Center, Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Urology Unit, ASST Spedali 
Civili of Brescia, Department of Medical and Surgical Specialties, Radiological 
Science and Public Health, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.
(4)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, Division of Urology, University 
of Montreal Health Center, Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Department of Urology and 
Division of Experimental Oncology, URI, Urological Research Institute, IRCCS San 
Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy.
(5)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, Division of Urology, University 
of Montreal Health Center, Montreal, Quebec, Canada; European Institute of 
Oncology, Milan, Italy.
(6)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, Division of Urology, University 
of Montreal Health Center, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(7)Department of Urology and Division of Experimental Oncology, URI, Urological 
Research Institute, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy.
(8)Martini-Klinik Prostate Cancer Center, University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg, Germany; Department of Urology, University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg, Germany.
(9)Martini-Klinik Prostate Cancer Center, University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: We examined the changes over time in other-cause mortality (OCM) 
rates in patients with clinically localized prostate cancer (PCa) as an 
indicator of patient selection.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Within the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results 
database (1987-2011), we identified patients with PCa treated with either 
radical prostatectomy (RP) (n = 230,969; 62.8%) or external beam radiation 
therapy (EBRT) (n = 136,915; 37.2%). Temporal trends and multivariable Cox 
regression analyses assessed OCM at 5 years using stratification according to 
year of diagnosis (1987-1991 vs. 1992-1996 vs. 1997-2001 vs. 2002-2006 vs. 
2007-2011), age group, and ethnicity.
RESULTS: In patients who had undergone RP, the OCM rates at 5 years of follow-up 
decreased over time from 7.9% to 2.4% (slope, -0.25%/year) versus from 15.2% to 
9.9% after EBRT (slope, -0.29%/year). The greatest decrease in 5-year OCM rates 
over time was recorded in patients ≥ 75 years (16.0%-12.0%; slope, -0.25%/year), 
followed by younger age categories (70-74 years, -0.21%/year; 65-69 
years, -0.17%/year; 60-64 years, -0.10%/year; < 60 years, -0.07%/year), as well 
as in African-American men (11.0%-5.1%; slope, -0.32%/year), followed by 
Caucasian (7.6%-3.4%; slope, -0.21%/year) and Hispanic men (7.0%-3.1%; 
slope, -0.20%/year; all P < .001), as corroborated in multivariable Cox 
regression models.
CONCLUSIONS: OCM rates were highest in oldest individuals and in 
African-American men. In both groups, an important 5-year OCM reduction over the 
25-year study span was recorded. Nonetheless, these 2 patient groups may still 
represent the ideal target for better patient selection based on OCM 
considerations, because their most recent OCM rates exceeded those of, 
respectively, younger and Caucasian patients.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clgc.2019.07.008
PMID: 31416752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Ophthalmol Retina. 2019 Nov;3(11):956-961. doi: 10.1016/j.oret.2019.06.003.
Epub  2019 Jun 12.

Cost Analysis of Pneumatic Retinopexy versus Pars Plana Vitrectomy for 
Rhegmatogenous Retinal Detachment.

Elhusseiny AM(1), Yannuzzi NA(2), Smiddy WE(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami 
Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida; Department of Ophthalmology, Kasr Al 
Ainy School of Medicine, Cairo University, Cairo, Egypt.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami 
Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami 
Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida. Electronic address: 
wsmiddy@med.miami.edu.

Comment in
    Ophthalmol Retina. 2020 Mar;4(3):e3-e4.
    Ophthalmol Retina. 2020 Mar;4(3):e4.

PURPOSE: To perform a cost-utility analysis and comparison between pneumatic 
retinopexy (PR) and pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) for primary rhegmatogenous 
retinal detachment (RRD) repair.
DESIGN: A cost-utility analysis using decision analysis.
PARTICIPANTS: There were no participants.
METHODS: A decision analysis model was constructed based on results from the 
Pneumatic Retinopexy versus Vitrectomy for the Management of Primary 
Rhegmatogenous Retinal Detachment Outcomes Randomized Trial to calculate the 
costs, lifetime usefulness, and lifetime cost per quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) for the treatment of RRD with PR or PPV. Data from the Centers for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services were used to calculate the associated adjusted 
costs in facility and nonfacility practice settings.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost of intervention, utility gain over natural history, 
QALY gained, and cost per QALY.
RESULTS: The total imputed costs (all in 2019 United States dollars) for primary 
repair of RRD in facility and nonfacility settings were $4451 and $2456, 
respectively, in the PR group and $7108 and $4514, respectively, in the PPV 
group. The estimated lifetime QALYs gained were 5.9 and 5.4 in the PR and PPV 
groups, respectively. The cost per QALY for facility and nonfacility settings 
was $751 and $414, respectively, in the PR group and $1312 and $833, 
respectively, in the PPV group.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost-utility analysis of both PR and PPV demonstrated excellent 
results for both methods for RRD repair, with the metrics for PR somewhat more 
favorable independent of the practice settings (facility or nonfacility based).

Copyright © 2019 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oret.2019.06.003
PMID: 31416765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Front Microbiol. 2019 Jul 31;10:1766. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.01766.
eCollection  2019.

Potential of Yeasts as Biocontrol Agents of the Phytopathogen Causing Cacao 
Witches' Broom Disease: Is Microbial Warfare a Solution?

Ferraz P(1)(2), Cássio F(1)(2), Lucas C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Science and Innovation for Bio-Sustainability, University of 
Minho, Braga, Portugal.
(2)Centre of Molecular and Environmental Biology, University of Minho, Braga, 
Portugal.

Plant diseases caused by fungal pathogens are responsible for major crop losses 
worldwide, with a significant socio-economic impact on the life of millions of 
people who depend on agriculture-exclusive economy. This is the case of the 
Witches' Broom Disease (WBD) affecting cacao plant and fruit in South and 
Central America. The severity and extent of this disease is prospected to impact 
the growing global chocolate market in a few decades. WBD is caused by the 
basidiomycete fungus Moniliophthora perniciosa. The methods used to contain the 
fungus mainly rely on chemical fungicides, such as copper-based compounds or 
azoles. Not only are these highly ineffective, but also their utilization is 
increasingly restricted by the cacao industry, in part because it promotes 
fungal resistance, in part related to consumers' health concerns and 
environmental awareness. Therefore, the disease is being currently tentatively 
controlled through phytosanitary pruning, although the full removal of infected 
plant material is impossible and the fungus maintains persistent inoculum in the 
soil, or using an endophytic fungal parasite of Moniliophthora perniciosa which 
production is not sustainable. The growth of Moniliophthora perniciosa was 
reported as being antagonized in vitro by some yeasts, which suggests that they 
could be used as biological control agents, suppressing the fungus 
multiplication and containing its spread. Concurrently, some yeast-based 
products are used in the protection of fruits from postharvest fungal spoilage, 
and the extension of diverse food products shelf-life. These successful 
applications suggest that yeasts can be regarded a serious alternative also in 
the pre-harvest management of WBD and other fungal plant diseases. Yeasts' GRAS 
(Generally Recognized as Safe) nature adds to their appropriateness for field 
application, not raising major ecological concerns as do the present more 
aggressive approaches. Importantly, mitigating WBD, in a sustainable manner, 
would predictably have a high socioeconomic impact, contributing to diminish 
poverty in the cacao-producing rural communities severely affected by the 
disease. This review discusses the importance/advantages and the challenges that 
such a strategy would have for WBD containment, and presents the available 
information on the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying fungi antagonism 
by yeasts.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.01766
PMCID: PMC6685038
PMID: 31417539


98. Front Genet. 2019 Jul 26;10:689. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2019.00689. eCollection 
2019.

Transcription Profiling of Monocyte-Derived Macrophages Infected In Vitro With 
Two Strains of Streptococcus agalactiae Reveals Candidate Pathways Affecting 
Subclinical Mastitis in Cattle.

Lewandowska-Sabat AM(1), Kirsanova E(1), Klopp C(2), Solberg TR(3), Heringstad 
B(3)(4), Østerås O(5), Boysen P(6), Olsaker I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Sciences and Aquatic Medicine, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, Norwegian University of Life Sciences, Oslo, Norway.
(2)Sigenae, UBIA INRA, Castanet-Tolosan, France.
(3)Geno Breeding and A.I. Association, Hamar, Norway.
(4)Department of Animal and Aquacultural Sciences, Faculty of Biosciences, 
Norwegian University of Life Sciences, Ås, Norway.
(5)Norwegian Cattle Health Services and TINE Extension Services, Ås, Norway.
(6)Department of Food Safety and Infection Biology, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, Norwegian University of Life Sciences, Oslo, Norway.

Macrophages are key cells of innate immune response and serve as the first line 
of defense against bacteria. Transcription profiling of bacteria-infected 
macrophages could provide important insights on the pathogenicity and host 
defense mechanisms during infection. We have examined transcription profiles of 
bovine monocyte-derived macrophages (bMDMs) isolated from the blood of 12 
animals and infected in vitro with two strains of Streptococcus agalactiae. 
Illumina sequencing of RNA from 36 bMDMs cultures exposed in vitro to either one 
of two sequence types of S. agalactiae (ST103 or ST12) for 6 h and unchallenged 
controls was performed. Analyses of over 1,656 million high-quality paired-end 
sequence reads revealed 5,936 and 6,443 differentially expressed genes (p < 
0.05) in bMDMs infected with ST103 and ST12, respectively, versus unchallenged 
controls. Moreover, 588 genes differentially expressed between bMDMs infected 
with ST103 versus ST12 were identified. Ingenuity pathway analysis of the 
differentially up-regulated genes in the bMDMs infected with ST103 revealed 
significant enrichment for granulocyte adhesion and diapedesis, while 
significant enrichment for the phagosome formation pathway was found among 
down-regulated genes. Moreover, Ingenuity pathway analysis of the differentially 
up-regulated genes in the bMDMs infected with ST12 showed significant enrichment 
for type 1/type 2 T helper cell activation, while the complement activation 
pathway was overrepresented in the down-regulated genes. Our study identified 
pathogen-induced regulation of key genes and pathways involved in the immune 
response of macrophages against infection but also likely involved in bacterial 
evasion of the host immune system. These results may contribute to better 
understanding of the mechanisms underlying subclinical infection such as bovine 
streptococcal mastitis.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2019.00689
PMCID: PMC6681682
PMID: 31417606


99. Int J Ment Health Syst. 2019 Aug 13;13:55. doi: 10.1186/s13033-019-0311-x. 
eCollection 2019.

Insights into the system of care of the elderly with mental disorders from the 
perspective of informal caregivers in Lithuania.

Kontrimiene A(1), Sauseriene J(1), Liseckiene I(1), Valius L(1), Jaruseviciene 
L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Lithuanian University of Health Sciences 
(LUHS), Mickeviciaus 9, LT 44307 Kaunas, Lithuania.

BACKGROUND: Changes in the demographics and respective growth of life expectancy 
and social needs make informal caregiving crucial component of comprehensive 
health and social care network, which substantially contributes to the health 
and well-being of the elderly. The purpose of this paper is to understand the 
system of care of elderly patients with mental disorders from the perspective of 
informal caregivers in Lithuania.
METHODS: We conducted five semi-structured focus group discussions with 31 
informal caregivers attending to elderly patients with mental disorders. The 
data were audiotaped and transcribed verbatim. A thematic analysis was 
subsequently performed.
RESULTS: Five thematic categories were established: (1) the current state of 
care-receivers: representation of the complexity of patients' physical and 
mental condition. (2) The current state of caregivers: lack of formal 
caregivers' integration as a team; inadequate formal involvement of informal 
caregivers. (3) Basic care needs: the reflection of the group needs relating 
directly to the patient, care organisation and the caretaker. (4) The (non-) 
Readiness of the existing system to respond to the needs for care: long-term 
care reliance on institutional services, lack of distinction between 
acute/immediate care and nursing, lack of integration between the medical sector 
and the social care sector. (5) Potential trends for further improvement of 
long-term care for the elderly with mental disorders.
CONCLUSIONS: Strengthening of the care network for elderly patients with mental 
disorders should cover more than a personalised and comprehensive assessment of 
the needs of patients and their caregivers. Comprehensive approaches, such as 
formalization of informal caregivers' role in the patient care management and 
planning, a more extensive range of available services and programs supported by 
diverse sources of funding, systemic developments and better integration of 
health and social care systems are essential for making the system of care more 
balanced.

DOI: 10.1186/s13033-019-0311-x
PMCID: PMC6692936
PMID: 31417610

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.


100. Respirology. 2020 Feb;25(2):183-190. doi: 10.1111/resp.13667. Epub 2019 Aug
16.

Home-based pulmonary rehabilitation for COPD using minimal resources: An 
economic analysis.

Burge AT(1)(2)(3), Holland AE(1)(2)(3), McDonald CF(3)(4)(5), Abramson MJ(6), 
Hill CJ(2)(3), Lee AL(1)(2)(3), Cox NS(1)(3), Moore R(3), Nicolson C(1)(2), 
O'Halloran P(7), Lahham A(1)(3), Gillies R(1)(2), Mahal A(8).

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Physiotherapy, La Trobe University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(2)Department of Physiotherapy, Alfred Health, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(3)Institute for Breathing and Sleep, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(4)Department of Respiratory and Sleep Medicine, Austin Health, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.
(5)Department of Medicine, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.
(6)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(7)Department of Public Health, La Trobe University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(8)The Nossal Institute for Global Health, The University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.

Comment in
    Respirology. 2020 Feb;25(2):124-125.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to compare the cost-effectiveness and 
cost-utility of home and centre-based pulmonary rehabilitation for adults with 
stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
METHODS: Prospective economic analyses were undertaken from a health system 
perspective alongside a randomized controlled equivalence trial in which 
participants referred to pulmonary rehabilitation undertook a standard 8-week 
outpatient centre-based or a new home-based programme. Participants underwent 
clinical assessment prior to programme commencement, immediately following 
completion and 12 months following programme completion. They provided data for 
utility (quality-adjusted life years (QALY) determined using SF6D (utility 
scores for health states) calculated from 36-Item Short Form Health Survey 
version 2) and effectiveness (change in distance walked on 6-min walk test 
(Δ6MWD) following pulmonary rehabilitation ). Individual-level cost data for the 
12 months following programme completion was sourced from healthcare 
administration and government databases.
RESULTS: Between-group mean difference point estimates for cost (-$4497 (95% CI: 
-$12 250 to $3257), utility (0.025 (-0.038 to 0.086) QALY) and effectiveness 
(14 m (-11 to 39) Δ6MWD) favoured the home-based group. Cost-utility analyses 
demonstrated 63% of estimates falling in the dominant southeast quadrant and the 
probability that the new home-based model was cost-effective at a $0 threshold 
for willingness to pay was 78%. Results were robust to a range of sensitivity 
analyses. Programme completion was associated with significantly lower 
healthcare costs in the following 12 months.
CONCLUSION: Home-based pulmonary rehabilitation provides a cost-effective 
alternative model for people with COPD who cannot access traditional 
centre-based programmes.

© 2019 Asian Pacific Society of Respirology.

DOI: 10.1111/resp.13667
PMID: 31418515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Int J Cosmet Sci. 2019 Oct;41(5):509-515. doi: 10.1111/ics.12569.

Age, lifestyle and self-perceptions of hair: Is there an association with hair 
diameter and tensile properties?

Duvel L(1), Herbal A(1), Daniels L(1), Kong R(1), Hillebrand GG(1).

Author information:
(1)Amway Corporation, Ada, MI, 49355, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the association of age, lifestyle habits and the 
self-perception of hair condition with the objectively measured physical 
properties of hair in Caucasian females with brown hair.
METHODS: Hair biophysical properties, lifestyle habits data and self-perceptions 
of hair condition were collected on 110 Caucasian females with brown hair 
ranging in age from 17 to 78. Hair diameter (cross-sectional area) and tensile 
properties (elastic modulus, break strength and break extension) were measured 
at the root end of individual fibres (n = 100/subject) from the crown and 
frontal regions using objective instrumental methods. Other measures included 
body mass index (BMI) and Savin female pattern hair loss grades based on judging 
of standardized front, top and side view head images. Lifestyle habits and 
practices and self-perceived hair condition were obtained via a standardized 
self-assessment questionnaire.
RESULTS: Hair fibre diameter and break extension decreased significantly with 
age. Hair fibre elastic modulus and Savin hair loss scores increased 
significantly with age. No age-related change in hair fibre break stress was 
observed. A history of smoking or being overweight was significantly associated 
with having lower hair fibre cross-sectional area but was not associated with 
any of the measured tensile properties. Subjects who perceived their hair as 
fine, thinning or weak had significantly lower cross-sectional areas than 
subjects who did not. Subjects who perceived their hair to be healthy or strong 
had significantly higher cross-sectional areas than subjects who did not.
CONCLUSION: The biophysical properties of hair change significantly with age. A 
history of smoking or being overweight was significantly associated with having 
smaller hair cross-sectional area but was not associated with differences in 
hair tensile properties. The self-perception of having strong or healthy hair 
seems more associated with having a larger cross-sectional area than any real 
differences in hair strength.Abstrait.

Publisher: OBJECTIF: Déterminer l'association entre l'âge, les habitudes de vie 
et la perception de l'état des cheveux avec les propriétés physiques mesurées de 
manière objective chez les femmes de race blanche à cheveux bruns. MÉTHODES: Les 
propriétés biophysiques des cheveux, les données sur les habitudes de vie et la 
perception de leur état de santé ont été recueillies chez 110 femmes de race 
blanche aux cheveux bruns âgés de 17 à 78 ans. Le diamètre des cheveux (surface 
transversale), résistance à la rupture et extension à la rupture) ont été 
mesurés à la racine des fibres individuelles (n = 100 / sujet) à partir des 
régions de la couronne et de la partie frontale en utilisant des méthodes 
instrumentales objectives. Parmi les autres mesures, citons l'indice de masse 
corporelle (IMC) et les degrés de perte de cheveux selon le modèle féminin de 
Savin, fondés sur l'évaluation d'images de tête normalisées de face, de dessus 
et de côté. Les habitudes et pratiques de mode de vie et l'état de poil 
auto-perçu ont été obtenues à l'aide d'un questionnaire d'autoévaluation 
standardisé. RÉSULTATS: Le diamètre de la fibre capillaire et l'extension de la 
rupture ont diminué de manière significative avec l'âge. Le module d'élasticité 
de la fibre capillaire et les scores de perte de cheveux de Savin augmentaient 
considérablement avec l'âge. Aucun changement lié au vieillissement du stress 
lié à la rupture de la fibre capillaire n'a été observé. Des antécédents de 
tabagisme ou d’embonpoint étaient significativement associés à une section 
inférieure de la fibre capillaire mais n’étaient associés à aucune des 
propriétés de traction mesurées. Les sujets qui percevaient leurs cheveux fins, 
fins ou clairsemés avaient une section transversale significativement plus basse 
que les autres. Les sujets qui percevaient que leurs cheveux étaient en bonne 
santé ou forts avaient des zones transversales significativement plus élevées 
que les sujets qui n'en avaient pas.
CONCLUSION: Les propriétés biophysiques des cheveux changent de manière 
significative avec l'âge. Les antécédents de tabagisme ou d’embonpoint étaient 
significativement associés à une plus petite section transversale des cheveux 
