delays disability progression.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost effectiveness of 
cladribine tablets, compared with alternative options, in the treatment of RRMS 
patients with high disease activity (HDA) and patients with rapidly evolving 
severe (RES) MS in The Netherlands.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed simulating the costs and effects of RRMS 
treatment. For HDA, alemtuzumab and fingolimod were used as comparators; 
natalizumab was used for the RES subpopulation. The analysis included a societal 
perspective and a value-of-information (VOI) analysis.
RESULTS: For the HDA subpopulation, treatment with cladribine tablets was the 
cost-effective (dominant) strategy compared with alemtuzumab and fingolimod, 
with 50.9% and 98.2%, respectively, probability of being cost effective at a 
threshold of €50,000/QALY gained and a net monetary benefit (NMB) of €10,866 and 
€151,115, respectively. For the RES subpopulation, treatment with cladribine 
tablets dominated treatment with natalizumab, with 94.1% probability of being 
cost effective at a threshold of €50,000/QALY gained and an NMB of €122,986. 
Note that these outcomes are driven by the lower costs of cladribine tablets. 
Efficacy differences were small, very uncertain, and likely not clinically 
meaningful. The probabilistic sensitivity analyses showed significant overlap in 
the credible intervals for total lifetime QALY outcomes and costs of cladribine 
tablets and all relevant comparators. The population-level VOI amounted to 
€19,295,441.
CONCLUSIONS: The base-case analysis shows that treatment of RRMS with cladribine 
tablets is cost effective versus alemtuzumab and fingolimod in HDA patients, and 
cost effective versus natalizumab in RES patients, at a threshold of €50,000. 
Driven by the lower costs, cladribine tablets were cost effective (dominant) in 
all base-case analyses. However, given that outcomes are based on indirect 
comparisons and post hoc subgroup analysis, as well as the uncertainty 
surrounding the outcomes, the results presented in this paper should be 
interpreted with caution.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-019-00500-8
PMCID: PMC6885501
PMID: 31444659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Marieke Krol is a former employee, and Krijn M. 
H. Schiffers is a current employee, of Merck B.V., Schiphol-Rijk, The 
Netherlands, an affiliate of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. Gerard Harty is an 
employee of EMD Serono, Inc., a business of Merck KGaA Darmstadt, Germany. Maria 
de Fransesco, Koshu Mahajan, Renée Else Michels, Gerald J. D. Hengstman, and 
Sangeeta Budhia report no further conflicts of interest.


188. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2020 Jan;46(1):15-23. doi: 10.1016/j.ejso.2019.08.013.
Epub  2019 Aug 13.

Management of the axilla in patients with breast cancer and positive sentinel 
lymph node biopsy: An evidence-based update in a European breast center.

Garcia-Etienne CA(1), Ferrari A(2), Della Valle A(2), Lucioni M(2), Ferraris 
E(2), Di Giulio G(2), Squillace L(2), Bonzano E(2), Lasagna A(2), Rizzo G(2), 
Tancredi R(2), Scotti Foglieni A(2), Dionigi F(2), Grasso M(2), Arbustini E(2), 
Cavenaghi G(2), Pedrazzoli P(2), Filippi AR(2), Dionigi P(2), Sgarella A(2).

Author information:
(1)Breast Center, Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, Università degli 
Studi di Pavia, Pavia, Italy. Electronic address: carlos.garciaetienne@unipv.it.
(2)Breast Center, Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, Università degli 
Studi di Pavia, Pavia, Italy.

The surgical approach to the axilla in breast cancer has been a controversial 
issue for more than three decades. Data from recently published trials have 
provided practice-changing recommendations in this scenario. However, further 
controversies have been triggered in the surgical community, resulting in 
heterogeneous diffusion of these recommendations. The development of clinical 
guidelines for the management of the axilla in patients with breast cancer is a 
work in progress. A multidisciplinary team discussion was held at the research 
hospital Policlinico San Matteo from the Università degli Studi di Pavia with 
the aim to update recommendations for the management of the axilla in patients 
with breast cancer. An evidence-based approach is presented. Our 
multidisciplinary panel determined that axillary dissection after a positive 
sentinel lymph node biopsy may be avoided in cN0 patients with 
micro/macrometastasis to ≤2 sentinel nodes, with age ≥40y, lesions ≤3 cm, who 
have not received neoadjuvant chemotherapy and have planned breast conservation 
(BCS) with whole breast radiotherapy (WBRT). Cases with gross (>2 mm) ECE in 
SLNs are evaluated on individual basis for completion ALND, axillary 
radiotherapy or omission of both. Patients fulfilling the criteria listed above 
who undergo mastectomy, may also avoid axillary dissection after 
multidisciplinary discussion of individual cases for consideration of axillary 
irradiation. Women 70 years or older with hormone receptors positive invasive 
lesions ≤3 cm, clinically negative nodes, and serious or multiple comorbidities 
who undergo BCS with WBRT, may forgo axillary staging/surgery (if mastectomy or 
larger tumor, comorbidities and life expectancy are taken into account).

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd, BASO ~ The Association for Cancer Surgery, and 
the European Society of Surgical Oncology. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2019.08.013
PMID: 31445768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Neurospine. 2019 Dec;16(4):780-788. doi: 10.14245/ns.1938184.092. Epub 2019
Aug  25.

Complications of Spine Surgery in Elderly Japanese Patients: Implications for 
Future of World Population Aging.

Umekawa M(1), Takai K(1), Taniguchi M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Tokyo Metropolitan Neurological Hospital, Tokyo, 
Japan.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the relationship between age and perioperative 
complications of spine surgery in a Japanese cohort with the longest average 
life expectancy in the world.
METHODS: Patients with spinal stenosis who underwent standard spine surgery 
without instrumented fusion were divided into 4 groups: adults (20-64 years), 
the young-old (65-74), the middle old (75-84), and the oldest-old (≥85). Data on 
medical complications, surgical complications, and deaths within 30 days of 
index surgery were compared across the groups. Risk factors for complications 
were identified through multivariate analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 584 patients underwent 673 operations: 35% were performed on 
adult patients, 33% on the young-old, 27% on the middle old, and 5% on the 
oldest-old. The rates of total or [major] medical complications significantly 
increased with age (8% [0.8%], 11% [0.9%], 27% [3.9%], 45% [9.1%], respectively; 
p<0.001 [p=0.003]), whereas those of surgical complications did not differ (11%, 
8.1%, 14%, 9.1%, respectively; p=0.25). Independent risk factors for medical 
complications were an age of 75 years or older (75-84: odds ratio [OR], 5.1; 
≥85: OR, 6.2) and American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status 
classification III (OR, 5.4). Two patients older than 85 years died from medical 
complications.
CONCLUSION: The complications of spine surgery increased in the middle and 
oldest-old patients because of medical complications; however, most were minor 
and treatable. Major complications were associated with preoperative medical 
comorbidities and their severities; therefore, most elderly patients with low 
ASA physical status classification (≤II) may benefit from spine surgery.

DOI: 10.14245/ns.1938184.092
PMCID: PMC6944995
PMID: 31446683

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have nothing to disclose.


190. Clin Ther. 2019 Oct;41(10):2041-2056.e5. doi:
10.1016/j.clinthera.2019.07.007.  Epub 2019 Aug 22.

Long-term Safety and Clinical Benefit of Mepolizumab in Patients With the Most 
Severe Eosinophilic Asthma: The COSMEX Study.

Khurana S(1), Brusselle GG(2), Bel EH(3), FitzGerald JM(4), Masoli M(5), Korn 
S(6), Kato M(7), Albers FC(8), Bradford ES(9), Gilson MJ(10), Price RG(11), 
Humbert M(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine/Pulmonary, University of Rochester School of Medicine 
& Dentistry, Rochester, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, 
Belgium.
(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Amsterdam UMC, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.
(5)Department of Respiratory Medicine, University Hospitals Plymouth NHS Trust, 
Plymouth, United Kingdom.
(6)Pulmonary Department, Universitätsmedizin Mainz, Mainz, Germany.
(7)Chest Disease Clinical and Research Institute, Kishiwada City Hospital, 
Osaka, Japan.
(8)Respiratory Medical Franchise, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC, 
USA. Electronic address: frank-c.albers@t-online.de.
(9)Respiratory Therapeutic Area, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC, 
USA.
(10)Respiratory Research and Development, GlaxoSmithKline, Stockley Park, 
Uxbridge, Middlesex, United Kingdom.
(11)Clinical Statistics, GlaxoSmithKline, Stevenage, Hertfordshire, United 
Kingdom.
(12)Assistance Publique -Hôpitaux de Paris, Service de Pneumologie, Hôpital 
Bicêtre, Paris, France; Univ. Paris-Sud, Université Paris-Saclay, Paris, France; 
INSERM U999, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, Paris, France.

PURPOSE: The goal of this study was to assess the long-term safety and efficacy 
of mepolizumab in patients with the most severe eosinophilic asthma.
METHODS: This multicenter, open-label, long-term, Phase IIIb study (COSMEX 
[COSMOS Extension]; 201312/NCT02135692) enrolled patients from the 52-week, 
open-label extension study COSMOS (A Study to Determine Long-term Safety of 
Mepolizumab in Asthmatic Subjects) that previously enrolled patients from the 
double-blinded, placebo-controlled Phase III studies MENSA (Mepolizumab as 
Adjunctive Therapy in Patients with Severe Asthma) and SIRIUS (Steroid Reduction 
with Mepolizumab Study). To enter COSMEX, patients had to have 
life-threatening/seriously debilitating asthma before entering MENSA or SIRIUS 
and to have completed these previous studies with demonstrated improvement while 
receiving mepolizumab. In COSMEX, patients received mepolizumab 100 mg 
subcutaneously every 4 weeks as add-on therapy for up to 172 weeks. Primary 
endpoints were adverse event frequency and exacerbation rate per year; also 
assessed were forced expiratory volume in 1 s, Asthma Control Questionnaire-5 
score, and daily oral corticosteroid (OCS) use.
FINDINGS: Of the 340 patients enrolled, 339 received mepolizumab; median 
treatment duration within this extension study was 2.2 years, equating to 718 
patient-years of additional exposure. No new safety signals were identified. 
Patients receiving mepolizumab throughout this study and previous studies had 
lasting reductions in exacerbation rate and daily OCS use and improvements in 
forced expiratory volume in 1 s and Asthma Control Questionnaire-5 score. In 
COSMEX, the on-treatment exacerbation rate (95% CI) was 0.93 (0.81-1.06) 
event/year for clinically significant exacerbations, 0.13 (0.10-0.18) event/year 
for exacerbations requiring hospitalization/emergency department visit, and 0.07 
(0.05-0.10) event/year for exacerbations requiring hospitalization. In patients 
requiring systemic/oral corticosteroids with ≥128 weeks of continuous enrollment 
across SIRIUS, COSMOS, and COSMEX, mepolizumab maintained the median daily OCS 
dose at 1.3-2.8 mg during COSMEX, with additional patients no longer requiring 
OCS after extended mepolizumab treatment.
IMPLICATIONS: This study indicates that long-term mepolizumab treatment is well 
tolerated and associated with sustained clinical benefits in patients with 
severe eosinophilic asthma. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT02135692.

Copyright © 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2019.07.007
PMID: 31447130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Presse Med. 2019 Jul-Aug;48(7-8 Pt 1):850-858. doi:
10.1016/j.lpm.2019.07.024.  Epub 2019 Aug 22.

[Follicular lymphoma: An update].

[Article in French]

Sujobert P(1), Salles G(2).

Author information:
(1)Groupement hospitalier Sud, hospices civils de Lyon, service d'hématologie 
biologique, 69310 Lyon, France; Inserm U1052 CNRS 5286, centre de recherche en 
cancérologie de Lyon (CRCL), équipe « clinical and experimental models of 
lymphomagenesis », 69600 Lyon, France; Université de Lyon, université 
Claude-Bernard Lyon 1, faculté de médecine et de Maïeutique 
Lyon-Sud-Charles-Mérieux, 69600 Lyon, France.
(2)Inserm U1052 CNRS 5286, centre de recherche en cancérologie de Lyon (CRCL), 
équipe « clinical and experimental models of lymphomagenesis », 69600 Lyon, 
France; Université de Lyon, université Claude-Bernard Lyon 1, faculté de 
médecine et de Maïeutique Lyon-Sud-Charles-Mérieux, 69600 Lyon, France; 
Groupement hospitalier Sud, hospices civils de Lyon, service d'hématologie 
clinique, 69310 Lyon, France. Electronic address: gilles.salles@chu-lyon.fr.

Follicular lymphoma, the second most common lymphoma, is characterized by its 
slow growth and is often considered incurable in advanced stages. Progresses in 
biology have contributed to better understand the complex and successive 
mechanisms of development of this pathology, whose diagnosis is based on a lymph 
node biopsy. However, the prognosis of the patients is heterogeneous and several 
indexes have been proposed to identify groups of patients with a similar life 
expectancy, in order to guide the therapeutic choices. The treatment has been 
modified in the last 20 years by the emergence of anti-CD20 monoclonal 
antibodies which constitute, alone or in combination, of the cornerstone of 
therapeutic management. After staging using, in particular, 
18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography, the therapeutic strategy 
will be adapted for each patient, ranging from simple watchful waiting to a 
combination of chemotherapy and anti-CD20 antibodies. Relapses (which often 
require a new lymph node biopsy to eliminate a possible histological 
transformation into an aggressive lymphoma with poorer prognosis) remain common 
but are still accessible to effective therapeutic interventions. Thanks to these 
advances, the median life expectancy of patients with follicular lymphoma now 
exceeds 15 years.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lpm.2019.07.024
PMID: 31447334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Cancer Radiother. 2019 Oct;23(6-7):475-481. doi:
10.1016/j.canrad.2019.07.141.  Epub 2019 Aug 22.

[Oligometastases and oligoprogressions: Concepts and natural history].

[Article in French]

Annede P(1), Chargari C(2).

Author information:
(1)Département de radiothérapie, Gustave-Roussy Cancer Campus, Villejuif, 94800, 
France; École du Val-de-Grâce, Paris 75005, France; Département de 
Radiothérapie, Institut Paoli-Calmettes, Marseille, 13009, France.
(2)Département de radiothérapie, Gustave-Roussy Cancer Campus, Villejuif, 94800, 
France; Université Paris Sud, Kremlin Bicêtre, 94270, France; Département Effets 
Biologiques des Rayonnements, Brétigny sur Orge, 91220, France. Electronic 
address: cyrus.chargari@gustaveroussy.fr.

The oligometastatic paradigm refers to an intermediate biologic state of cancer 
with restricted metastatic capacity. Its phenotype is characterized by a limited 
number of metastases and a slow tumor growth. Various clinical and pre-clinical 
studies associated this state to alterations of the biological mechanisms 
involved in metastatic diffusion. Eventually, this transitional state leads to a 
wide metastatic dissemination. However, there is a period during which the 
patient could benefit from local ablative treatment. Depending on several 
prognostic factors and the treatment provided, long survival or even healing can 
sometimes be achieved. The selection of patients eligible for such a curative 
strategy may be adapted following clinical, radiological or biological markers. 
Recent improvement of therapeutic and imaging are changing the clinical 
definition of oligometastatic cancer, which should be adapted to evidence from 
recent clinical and preclinical data.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canrad.2019.07.141
PMID: 31447345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. J Clin Neurosci. 2019 Dec;70:178-182. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2019.08.034. Epub
2019  Aug 22.

Rhabdomyolysis and spine surgery: A systematic review of the literature.

Portella ST(1), Acioly MA(2).

Author information:
(1)Post-graduation Program in Neurology, Federal University of the State of Rio 
de Janeiro (UNIRIO), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Division of Emergency, Armed Forces 
Hospital, Brasília, Brazil. Electronic address: stportella@gmail.com.
(2)Post-graduation Program in Neurology, Federal University of the State of Rio 
de Janeiro (UNIRIO), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Division of Neurosurgery, Federal 
University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Division of 
Neurosurgery, Fluminense Federal University, Niterói, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

Rhabdomyolysis is characterized by the rupture of skeletal muscles due to a lot 
of reasons such as exercise, drug addiction, toxins, infections, trauma and some 
medications. The etiology of postoperative rhabdomyolysis is potentially 
multifactorial and has been documented in several types of surgery. The lysis of 
cell membrane releases organic and inorganic intracellular components that can 
be toxic and life threatening. Creatinephosphokinase (CPK) is one of the 
components and it is the most sensitive indicator of myocyte injury. The classic 
triad of symptoms is characterized by myalgia, weakness and brown-red urine. 
There is not a clearly agreed level of serum CPK that is evident for diagnosis 
of rhabdomyolysis. However, a CPK level higher than 5 times of its normal value 
is accepted by many authors as diagnostic criteria. Acute kidney injury is the 
most serious complication of rhabdomyolysis in the days following initial 
presentation and develops in 33% of patients. The objective of this study was to 
perform a review of the literature, aiming at a better understanding about the 
changes in CPK levels and the frequency of rhabdomyolysis in spine surgery, with 
special attention in posterior lumbar fusion. Nineteen studies were selected for 
analysis. The studies had different characteristics considering patients age, 
body mass index, comorbidities and type of surgery. The best available evidence 
points out to the prognosis depend on the extension and clinical severity of 
rhabdomyolysis, as well as on the early and prompt medical intervention.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jocn.2019.08.034
PMID: 31447366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 2019 Aug 26;93:e201908048.

[Aging in a methadone maintenance program. A perspective from the framework of 
social determinants of health].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Gutiérrez-Cáceres S(1)(2), Pedraz-Marcos A(2)(3)(4), Serrano-Gallardo 
P(2)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Atención a las Adicciones de Latina. Instituto de Adicciones. 
Madrid Salud. Madrid. España.
(2)Departamento de Enfermería. Facultad de Medicina de la Universidad Autónoma 
de Madrid. Madrid. España.
(3)Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Puerta de Hierro (IDIPHISA). 
Majadahonda. Madrid. España.
(4)Grupo de Investigación Cualitativa en Salud. Universidad Autónoma de Madrid 
(GIQS-UAM). Madrid. España.
(5)Instituto Interuniversitario "Investigación avanzada sobre evaluación de la 
Ciencia y la Universidad (INAECU). Getafe. Madrid. España.

OBJECTIVE: People on methadone treatment have increased their life expectancy, 
aging prematurely with comorbidities. The objective of this study was to know 
the sociodemographic and clinical profile of these people in the Center for 
Addiction Care in the district of Latina (belonging to Madrid Salud), as well as 
the perception of the influence of the treatment on their aging. The Social 
Determinants of Health Model was used as a framework.
METHODS: A mixed methodology was used in two phases: a quantitative one, to 
describe the sociodemographic and clinical characteristics of the study 
population; and another qualitative one, through semi-structured interviews to 
an intentional sample, to explore the history of life and the perception of 
future needs regarding the health of the participants.
RESULTS: The results highlighted that the average age of the sample was 48.28 
years, that they were mostly men (81.25%), of Spanish origin, with a low level 
of education and economics and with a medium stay in treatment with methadone of 
± 13 years. An increase in mental pathologies was found the more years they had 
been in the program, as well as, at a lower age of onset in consumption, the 
presence of HIV and Hepatitis C virus increased. In their speeches it was found 
that the social determinants of Health have conditioned its vital history.
CONCLUSIONS: Both consumption and methadone contribute to its stigmatization, 
not favoring its normalized inclusion in society and determining a high state of 
vulnerability. This increases as age does, not receive adequate resources to 
meet their future needs.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Las personas en tratamiento con metadona han aumentado su 
esperanza de vida, envejeciendo de una forma prematura con comorbilidades. El 
objetivo de este estudio fue conocer el perfil sociodemográfico y clínico de 
estas personas en el Centro de Atención a las Adicciones del distrito de Latina 
(perteneciente a Madrid Salud), así como la percepción de la influencia del 
tratamiento en su envejecimiento. Se tuvo como marco el Modelo de los 
Determinantes Sociales de Salud.
METODOS: Se utilizó una metodología mixta en dos fases: una cuantitativa, para 
describir las características sociodemográficas y clínicas de la población de 
estudio; y otra cualitativa, mediante entrevistas semiestructuradas a una 
muestra intencional, para explorar el historial de vida y la percepción de 
necesidades futuras respecto de la salud de los participantes.
RESULTADOS: En los resultados destacó que la edad media de la muestra era de 
48,28 años, que eran en su mayoría hombres (81,25%), de origen español, con un 
nivel de estudios y económico bajos y con una estancia media en tratamiento con 
metadona de ±13 años. Se encontró un aumento de patologías mentales cuantos más 
años llevaban en el programa, así como que, a menor edad de inicio en el 
consumo, aumentaba la presencia de VIH y virus de la Hepatitis C. En sus 
discursos se halló que los determinantes sociales de la salud han condicionado 
su historia vital.
CONCLUSIONES: Tanto el consumo como la metadona contribuyen a su 
estigmatización, no favoreciendo su inclusión normalizada en la sociedad y 
determinando un estado elevado de vulnerabilidad. Ésta aumenta a medida que lo 
hace su edad, no recibiendo los recursos adecuados para atender a sus futuras 
necesidades.

PMID: 31447482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts of 
interest in this work.


195. J Geriatr Cardiol. 2019 Jul;16(7):522-528. doi: 
10.11909/j.issn.1671-5411.2019.07.005.

The relevance of serum albumin among elderly patients with acute decompensated 
heart failure.

Mene-Afejuku TO(1), Moisa EA(1), Akinlonu A(1), Dumancas C(1), Veranyan S(1), 
Perez JA(1), Salazar P(1), Chaudhari S(1), Pekler G(1), Mushiyev S(1), Visco 
F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New York Medical College, Metropolitan Hospital 
Center, New York, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the prognostic utility of serum albumin among elderly 
patients admitted for acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF) in terms of 
all-cause mortality and also to identify the predictors of hypoalbuminemia.
METHODS: Retrospective cohort study of 119 elderly patients admitted for ADHF. 
Elderly patients were defined as patients over the age of 65 years. The patients 
were followed up for approximately 11 years. Patients with advanced renal 
failure, liver disease not due to HF, cancer and other causes of low life 
expectancy were excluded. Hypoalbuminemia was defined as serum albumin ≤ 2.9 
g/dL.
RESULTS: The study was made up of 65 females and 54 males with age ranging from 
65 to 96 years. Of the 119 elderly patients with ADHF, there were 26 deaths. A 
significantly higher proportion of patients in the mortality group had an 
admission serum albumin level of ≤ 2.9 g/dL than those surviving (P = 0.011). 
After Cox's logistic regression, low albumin (P = 0.016), elevated direct 
bilirubin (P = 0.03), age greater than 85 (P = 0.008), lack of use of beta 
blockers (P = 0.0001) and left ventricular ejection fraction less than 35% (P = 
0.005) increased the risk of death. Elevated serum creatinine (P = 0.0357) was 
the only predictor of hypoalbuminemia following multiple linear regression.
CONCLUSIONS: Hypoalbuminemia may be an unrecognized marker of death in elderly 
patients with ADHF.

DOI: 10.11909/j.issn.1671-5411.2019.07.005
PMCID: PMC6689525
PMID: 31447891


196. Front Cardiovasc Med. 2019 Aug 6;6:107. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2019.00107. 
eCollection 2019.

Zebrafish as a Smart Model to Understand Regeneration After Heart Injury: How 
Fish Could Help Humans.

Beffagna G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardio-Thoraco-Vascular Sciences and Public Health, University 
of Padua, Padua, Italy.

Myocardial infarction (MI) in humans is a common cause of cardiac injury and 
results in irreversible loss of myocardial cells and formation of fibrotic scar 
tissue. This fibrotic tissue preserves the integrity of the ventricular wall but 
undermines pump function, leading to congestive heart failure. Unfortunately, 
the mammalian heart is unable to replace cardiomyocytes, so the life expectancy 
for patients after an episode of MI is lower than for most common types of 
cancers. Whereas, humans cannot efficiently regenerate their heart after injury, 
the teleost zebrafish have the capability to repair a "broken" heart. The 
zebrafish is probably one of the most important models for developmental and 
regenerative biology of the heart. In the last decades, the zebrafish has become 
increasingly important for scientific research: it has many characteristics that 
make it a smart model for studying human disease. Moreover, adult zebrafish 
efficiently regenerate their hearts following different forms of injury. Due to 
these characteristics, and to the availability of genetic approaches, and 
biosensor zebrafish lines, it has been established useful for studying molecular 
mechanisms of heart regeneration. Regeneration of cardiomyocytes in zebrafish is 
not based on stem cells or transdifferentiation of other cells but on the 
proliferation of preexisting cardiomyocytes. For this reason, future studies 
into the zebrafish cardiac regenerative mechanisms could identify specific 
molecules able to regulate the proliferation of preexisting cardiomyocytes; 
these factors may be studied in order to understand regulation of myocardial 
plasticity in cardiac repair processes after injury and, in particular, after MI 
in humans.

DOI: 10.3389/fcvm.2019.00107
PMCID: PMC6691037
PMID: 31448289


197. JBI Database System Rev Implement Rep. 2019 Oct;17(10):2020-2074. doi: 
10.11124/JBISRIR-D-18-00010.

Effectiveness and harms of pharmacological interventions for the treatment of 
delirium in adults in intensive care units after cardiac surgery: a systematic 
review.

Leigh V(1)(2), Stern C(1), Elliott R(3)(4)(5), Tufanaru C(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Joanna Briggs Institute, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, The 
University of Adelaide, Adelaide, Australia.
(2)Adelaide Nursing School, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, The 
University of Adelaide, Adelaide, Australia.
(3)The Malcolm Fisher Intensive Care Unit, Royal North Shore Hospital, Sydney, 
Australia.
(4)Nursing and Midwifery Directorate, Northern Sydney Local Health District, St 
Leonards, Australia.
(5)Faculty of Health, University of Technology Sydney, Ultimo, Australia.
(6)Australian Institute of Health Innovation, Macquarie University, Sydney, 
Australia.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this review was to synthesize the best available 
evidence on the effectiveness and harms of pharmacological interventions for the 
treatment of delirium in adult patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) after 
cardiac surgery.
INTRODUCTION: Patients who undergo cardiac surgery are at high risk of delirium 
(incidence: 50-90%). Delirium has deleterious effects, increasing the risk of 
death and adversely affecting recovery. Clinical interventional trials have been 
conducted to prevent and treat postoperative delirium pharmacologically 
including antipsychotics and sedatives. These trials have provided some evidence 
about efficacy and influenced clinical decision making. However, much reporting 
is incomplete and provides biased assessments of efficacy; benefits are 
emphasized while harms are inadequately reported.
INCLUSION CRITERIA: Participants were ≥ 16 years, any sex or ethnicity, who were 
treated postoperatively in a cardiothoracic ICU following cardiac surgery and 
were identified as having delirium. Any pharmacological intervention for the 
treatment of delirium was included, regardless of drug classification, dosage, 
intensity or frequency of administration. Outcomes of interest of this review 
were: mortality, duration and severity of delirium, use of physical restraints, 
quality of life, family members' satisfaction with delirium management, 
duration/severity of the aggressive episode, associated falls, severity of 
accidental self-harm, pharmacological harms, harms related to over-sedation, ICU 
length of stay, hospital length of stay (post ICU), total hospital length of 
stay, need for additional intervention medication and need for rescue 
medication. Randomized controlled trials were considered first and in their 
absence, non-randomized controlled trials and quasi-experimental would have been 
considered, followed by analytical observational studies.
METHODS: A search was conducted in PubMed, Embase, CINAHL, Web of Science, 
Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Scopus, Epistemonikos, 
Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry, ClinicalTrials.gov, Clinical 
Trials in New Zealand, and ProQuest Dissertations and Theses to locate both 
published and unpublished studies. There was no date limit for the search. A 
hand search for primary studies published between January 1, 2012 and November 
17, 2018 in relevant journals was also conducted. Only studies published in 
English were considered for inclusion. Two reviewers independently assessed the 
methodological quality using standardized critical appraisal instruments from 
JBI and McMaster University. Quantitative data were extracted using the 
standardized JBI data extraction tool. A meta-analysis was not performed, as 
there was too much clinical and methodological heterogeneity in the included 
studies. Results have been presented in a narrative form. Standard GRADE 
(Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) evidence 
assessment of outcomes has been reported.
RESULTS: Three RCTs investigating morphine versus haloperidol (n = 53), 
ondansetron versus haloperidol (n = 72), and dexmedetomidine versus midazolam 
(n = 80) were included. Due to heterogeneity and incomplete reporting, a 
meta-analysis was not feasible. Overall, the methodological quality of these 
studies was found to be low. Additionally, this review found reporting of harms 
to be inadequate and superficial for all three studies and did not meet the 
required standards for harms reporting, as defined by the CONSORT statement 
extension for harms.
CONCLUSIONS: It was not possible to draw any valid conclusions regarding the 
effectiveness of morphine vs haloperidol, ondansetron vs haloperidol or 
dexmedetomidine vs midazolam in treating delirium after cardiac surgery. This is 
due to the low number of studies, the poor methodological quality in conducting 
and reporting and the heterogeneity between the studies.

DOI: 10.11124/JBISRIR-D-18-00010
PMID: 31449136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Niger J Physiol Sci. 2019 Jun 30;34(1):99-105.

D-dimer as a Predictor of Altered Coagulation in HIV Patients in Nigeria.

Aisabokhale FA(1), Akingbola TS, Bamidele K.

Author information:
(1). titiakingbola@yahoo.com.

Recent medical advances have improved the quality of life and correspondingly 
reduced the morbidity and mortality associated with HIV infection. However 
increased life expectancy has led to a relative rise in comorbidities and 
complications such as alterations in coagulation systems. This study is aimed at 
the evaluation of D-dimer level as a predictor of thromboembolic risk in HIV 
patients. A total of 152 HIV positive and negative subjects and control 
respectively attending the PEPFAR clinic UCH in Ibadan were recruited both for a 
questionnaire-based survey and a coagulation profile screening.  Activated 
Partial Thromboplastin Time (APTT), Prothrombin Time (PT), D-dimer level the 
viral load indices of the HIV   patients and their CD4 counts were also 
evaluated. In the subjects, the D-dimer level was significantly higher (193.6 ± 
177.00ng/ml) than the controls (118.10 ± 140.58ng/ml) while a significantly 
lower APTT was also reported (36.22 ± 4.05 seconds) compared to the controls 
(41.14 ± 8.87 seconds). An evaluation of the coagulation profile in the Highly 
Active Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART) naïve and experienced group revealed only 
a significant increase (417.4) in the CD4 count whilst no difference was 
observed in the coagulation profile. In our study, a higher predisposition to a 
hypercoagulable state presenting as a short APTT was observed. This finding 
along with the higher D-dimer level underscores the relevance of the evaluation 
of this biomarker as an important predictor of thromboembolic event risk.

PMID: 31449278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. PLoS One. 2019 Aug 26;14(8):e0221614. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0221614. 
eCollection 2019.

Setting ambitious targets for surveillance and treatment rates among patients 
with hepatitis C related cirrhosis impacts the cost-effectiveness of 
hepatocellular cancer surveillance and substantially increases life expectancy: 
A modeling study.

Uyei J(1), Taddei TH(2), Kaplan DE(3), Chapko M(4), Stevens ER(1), Braithwaite 
RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Comparative Effectiveness and Decision Science, Department of 
Population Health, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY, United 
States of America.
(2)VA Connecticut-Healthcare System, West Haven, CT, United States of America.
(3)Corporal Michael J. Crescenz VA Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA, United 
States of America.
(4)Center of Innovation for Veteran-Centered and Value-Driven Care, Health 
Services Research & Development, VA Puget Sound, Seattle, WA, United States of 
America.

BACKGROUND: Hepatocelluar cancer (HCC) is the leading cause of death among 
people with hepatitis C virus (HCV)-related cirrhosis. Our aim was to determine 
the optimal surveillance frequency for patients with HCV-related compensated 
cirrhosis.
METHODS: We developed a decision analytic Markov model and validated it against 
data from the Veterans Outcomes and Costs Associated with Liver Disease (VOCAL) 
study group and published epidemiologic studies. Four strategies of different 
surveillance intervals were compared: no surveillance and ultrasound 
surveillance every 12, 6, and 3 months. We estimated lifetime survival, life 
expectancy, quality adjusted life years (QALY), total costs associated with each 
strategy, and incremental cost effectiveness ratios. We applied a willingness to 
pay threshold of $100,000. Analysis was conducted for two scenarios: a scenario 
reflecting current HCV and HCC surveillance compliance rates and treatment use 
and an aspirational scenario.
RESULTS: In the current scenario the preferred strategy was 3-month surveillance 
with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $7,159/QALY. In the 
aspirational scenario, 6-month surveillance was preferred with an ICER of 
$82,807/QALY because treating more people with HCV led to a lower incidence of 
HCC. Sensitivity analyses suggested that surveillance every 12 months would 
suffice in the particular circumstance when patients are very likely to return 
regularly for testing and when appropriate HCV and HCC treatment is readily 
available. Compared with the current scenario, the aspirational scenario 
resulted in a 1.87 year gain in life expectancy for the cohort because of large 
reductions in decompensated cirrhosis and HCC incidence.
CONCLUSIONS: HCC surveillance has good value for money for patients with 
HCV-related compensated cirrhosis. Investments to improve adherence to 
surveillance should be made when rates are suboptimal. Surveillance every 12 
months will suffice when patients are very likely to return regularly for 
testing and when appropriate HCV and HCC treatment is readily available.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0221614
PMCID: PMC6709904
PMID: 31449554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


200. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2019 Nov;143:20-26. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2019.07.010. Epub 2019 Aug 12.

The evolving role of trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) in HER2-positive breast 
cancer with brain metastases.

Dong R(1), Ji J(2), Liu H(3), He X(4).

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China. 
Electronic address: 21518132@zju.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China. Electronic address: 
21618271@zju.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China. Electronic address: 
21718314@zju.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China. Electronic address: 
xuexinhe@zju.edu.cn.

Approximately 30-50% of advanced human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) 
positive breast cancer patients will develop brain metastases (BMs) during the 
disease course. Brain metastases may become a main limitation of life expectancy 
and a half of them will die from brain progression. Even in patients with early 
HER2-positive breast cancer managed with curative therapy, the risk of brain 
metastases is also increased. Central nervous system (CNS) may usually present 
as the first site of recurrence in HER2-positive breast cancer. Local treatments 
including radiotherapy and surgery are essential while new chemotherapy and 
biological agents appear to contribute a significant role in the future 
treatment field of CNS metastases. This article will review recent progresses in 
HER2-positive breast cancer with BM, with a focus on the efficacy of the HER2 
targeted agents-trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1).

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2019.07.010
PMID: 31449983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Materials (Basel). 2019 Aug 25;12(17):2720. doi: 10.3390/ma12172720.

Variation of Relief Topography and Hardness of Surface Layers of Materials Due 
to Impact-Oscillatory Loading.

Chausov M(1), Maruschak P(2), Pylypenko A(1), Brezinová J(3), Bishchak R(4), 
Burda I(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanics, National University of Life and Environmental 
Sciences of Ukraine, Heroiv Oborony str. 15, 03041 Kyiv, Ukraine.
(2)Department of Industrial Automation, Ternopil National Ivan Puluj Technical 
University, Rus'ka str. 56, 46001 Ternopil, Ukraine.
(3)Department of Engineering Technologies and Materials, Faculty of Mechanical 
Engineering, Technical University of Košice, Mäsiarska 74, 04001 Košice, 
Slovakia. janette.brezinova@tuke.sk.
(4)Department of Welding, Ivano-Frankivsk National Technical University of Oil 
and Gas, Ivano-Frankivsk, Karpatska str. 15, 76019 Ivano-Frankivsk, Ukraine.
(5)Empa, Swiss Federal Laboratories for Materials Science and Technology, 
Laboratory for Mechanical Systems Engineering, Überlandstrasse 129, CH-8600 
Dübendorf, Switzerland.

It was shown previously that cyclic loading can be used to extend the fatigue 
life of sheet plastic materials subjected to the preliminary impact-oscillatory 
loading. This type of loading causes dynamic non-equilibrium processes (DNP) in 
materials, which lead to the formation of dissipative structures in materials 
and on their surface. The density of these dissipative structures is less than 
that of the base metal. In this paper, the results of investigations into the 
relief and hardness of surface layers modified by impact-oscillatory loading are 
analyzed on the example of five structural materials. The signs of a regular, 
orderly system of microextrusions formed on flat surfaces of all materials due 
to DNP are considered along with the alignment of roughness parameters Rz and Ra 
of relief profiles. The effect of impact-oscillatory loading is one of the main 
causes that lead to the extension of the fatigue life of materials.

DOI: 10.3390/ma12172720
PMCID: PMC6747598
PMID: 31450651

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


202. Clin Nutr ESPEN. 2019 Oct;33:276-278. doi: 10.1016/j.clnesp.2019.07.009.
Epub  2019 Aug 2.

Is body weight or muscle strength correlated with the Malnutrition Inflammation 
Score (MIS)? A cross-sectional study in hemodialysis patients.

Marini ACB(1), Pimentel GD(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinical and Sports Nutrition Research Laboratory (Labince), Faculty of 
Nutrition, Federal University of Goias, Goiânia, GO, Brazil.
(2)Clinical and Sports Nutrition Research Laboratory (Labince), Faculty of 
Nutrition, Federal University of Goias, Goiânia, GO, Brazil. Electronic address: 
gupimentel@yahoo.com.br.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: In hemodialysis (HD) patients, malnutrition and sedentary 
habits increase physical disability that contributes the loss of skeletal muscle 
mass. This vicious cycle contributes to poor quality of life and premature 
death. Therefore, considering that body weight is an item from the Malnutrition 
Inflammation Score (MIS) questionnaire, we hypothesize that body weight is an 
anthropometric marker that is just as important as muscle strength measurements 
in predicting changes in MIS. Thus, our study aimed to evaluate if there is a 
correlation between body weight and muscle strength measurements with the MIS in 
HD patients.
METHODS: A cross-sectional design study was conducted with patients who were 
enrolled at two HD clinics. Body weight (kg), height (m), body mass index 
(BMI-kg/m2); handgrip strength (HGS-kg) using a dynamometer, 1 repetition 
maximum (1RM) leg extension and MIS were used to present clinical history and 
physical examinations of the patient.
RESULTS: From 60 patients, 12.6% (n = 21) had MIS≥6, classified as malnutrition. 
The patients studied had a median age of 39 (19-59) years and were mostly men 
(n = 41), who had, on average, the nutritional status for the eutrophic BMI 
(23.76 ± 5.31 kg/m2) and muscle strength of HGS 33.10 ± 10.17 kg on average, as 
well as1 RM leg extension 73.03 ± 27.34 kg. In addition, MIS was similarly 
correlated with body weight (r = -0.46; p = 0.0002), HGS (r = -0.44; p = 0.0004) 
and 1 RM leg extension (r = -0.49; p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Although, HGS and 1 RM leg extension were correlated with MIS, we 
found that body weight also was associated with MIS. Therefore, in clinical 
practice with the lack of equipment to measure muscle strength and inflammatory 
cytokines, a simple evaluation of body weight may be sufficient to predict 
malnutrition and MIS in HD patients.

Copyright © 2019 European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism. 
Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clnesp.2019.07.009
PMID: 31451266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. CMAJ. 2019 Aug 26;191(34):E932-E939. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.190274.

Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of vaccination against herpes zoster in 
Canada: a modelling study.

Drolet M(1), Zhou Z(1), Sauvageau C(1), DeWals P(1), Gilca V(1), Amini R(1), 
Bénard É(1), Brisson M(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre de recherche du Centre hospitalier de l'Université de Québec (Drolet, 
Zhou, Sauvageau, Gilca, Bénard, Brisson) and Département de médecine sociale et 
préventive (Sauvageau, DeWals, Bénard, Brisson), Université Laval; Institut 
national de santé publique du Québec (Sauvageau, DeWals, Gilca, Amini), Québec, 
Que.
(2)Centre de recherche du Centre hospitalier de l'Université de Québec (Drolet, 
Zhou, Sauvageau, Gilca, Bénard, Brisson) and Département de médecine sociale et 
préventive (Sauvageau, DeWals, Bénard, Brisson), Université Laval; Institut 
national de santé publique du Québec (Sauvageau, DeWals, Gilca, Amini), Québec, 
Que. Marc.Brisson@crchudequebec.ulaval.ca.

BACKGROUND: Two vaccines against herpes zoster are currently authorized for use 
in Canada: the recombinant subunit zoster vaccine and live attenuated zoster 
vaccine. We compared the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of these 2 
vaccines.
METHODS: We used a decision analytic static cohort model parametrized with 
Canadian epidemiologic and economic data. We performed the economic analysis 
from the health care system perspective, using a lifetime horizon and a 3% 
discount rate for costs and benefits. The primary outcome was the incremental 
cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained, relative to no vaccination. 
We ran 30 000 simulations varying all model parameters, including vaccine costs, 
efficacy and waning.
RESULTS: The number needed to vaccinate (NNV) was higher for the live attenuated 
zoster vaccine than for the recombinant subunit zoster vaccine for all herpes 
zoster-related events at all ages. For example, in persons exactly 65 years old, 
for herpes zoster, median NNV was 21 (90% uncertainty interval [UI] 13-31) 
versus 8 (90% UI 6-18), and for postherpetic neuralgia, NNV was 64 (90% UI 
33-93) versus 31 (90% UI 23-73). For the recombinant vaccine, the median 
cost-effectiveness ratios varied between cost-saving and $25 881 per QALY gained 
for adults aged 50 years or older. For the live vaccine, the cost-effectiveness 
ratios varied between cost-saving and $130 587 per QALY gained and were less 
than $45 000 per QALY gained only for those 65 to 75 years old. Given its higher 
efficacy, we estimated that the cost for the complete series of the recombinant 
vaccine could be $150 to $200 more than the cost of the live vaccine and still 
be considered cost-effective.
INTERPRETATION: Our model predicted that the recombinant subunit zoster vaccine 
is likely cost-effective in Canada for adults 60 years or older, and is likely 
more cost-effective than live attenuated zoster vaccine. These results have 
informed updated national and provincial recommendations on herpes zoster 
vaccination.

© 2019 Joule Inc. or its licensors.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.190274
PMCID: PMC6710082
PMID: 31451524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Philippe DeWals has 
received research grants and reimbursement for travel expenses from vaccine 
manufacturers, including the GSK group of companies, Novartis, Pfizer and Sanofi 
Pasteur. The quality-adjusted life-year estimates were partially derived from 
MASTER, a study conducted in 2005–2006 and funded by Merck Frosst Canada Ltd. 
through a collaborative research agreement between Merck and the study’s 
scientific steering committee, of which Marc Brisson was a member. No other 
competing interests were declared.


204. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2019 Dec;178(3):573-585. doi: 
10.1007/s10549-019-05410-w. Epub 2019 Aug 26.

Cost-utility, cost-effectiveness, and budget impact of Internet-based cognitive 
behavioral therapy for breast cancer survivors with treatment-induced menopausal 
symptoms.

Verbeek JGE(1)(2), Atema V(1), Mewes JC(3), van Leeuwen M(1), Oldenburg HSA(4), 
van Beurden M(5), Hunter MS(6), van Harten WH(1)(2), Aaronson NK(1), Retèl 
VP(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychosocial Research and Epidemiology, The Netherlands Cancer 
Institute, P.O. Box 90203, 1006 BE, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Health Technology and Services Research, Unveristy of Twente, 
Enschede, The Netherlands.
(3)Panaxea, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Surgical Oncology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Gynecology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(6)Department of Psychology, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and 
Neuroscience, Kings College London, London, UK.
(7)Division of Psychosocial Research and Epidemiology, The Netherlands Cancer 
Institute, P.O. Box 90203, 1006 BE, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. v.retel@nki.nl.
(8)Department of Health Technology and Services Research, Unveristy of Twente, 
Enschede, The Netherlands. v.retel@nki.nl.

PURPOSE: Internet-based cognitive behavioral therapy (iCBT), with and without 
therapist support, is effective in reducing treatment-induced menopausal 
symptoms and perceived impact of hot flushes and night sweats (HF/NS) in breast 
cancer survivors. The aim of the current study was to evaluate the cost-utility, 
cost-effectiveness, and budget impact of both iCBT formats compared to a waiting 
list control group from the Dutch healthcare perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed with a 5-year time horizon. Costs and 
health outcomes were measured alongside a randomized controlled clinical trial 
and included quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), overall levels of menopausal 
symptoms, and perceived impact of HF/NS. Uncertainty was examined using 
probabilistic and deterministic sensitivity analyses, together with a scenario 
analysis incorporating a different perspective.
RESULTS: iCBT was slightly more expensive than the waiting list control, but 
also more effective, resulting in incremental cost-utility ratios of 
€23,331/QALY and €11,277/QALY for the guided and self-managed formats, 
respectively. A significant reduction in overall levels of menopausal symptoms 
or perceived impact of HF/NS resulted in incremental costs between €1460 and 
€1525 for the guided and €500-€753 for the self-managed format. The estimated 
annual budget impact for the Netherlands was €192,990 for the guided and €74,592 
for the self-managed format.
CONCLUSION: Based on the current trial data, the results indicate that both 
guided and self-managed iCBT are cost-effective with a willingness-to-pay 
threshold of well below €30,000/QALY. Additionally, self-managed iCBT is the 
most cost-effective strategy and has a lower impact on healthcare budgets.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-019-05410-w
PMCID: PMC6817759
PMID: 31451978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Myra S. Hunter declares she receives royalties 
from Routledge and Boom publisher. No other conflicts of interest are present 
and other authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.


205. AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses. 2019 Nov/Dec;35(11-12):1103-1105. doi: 
10.1089/AID.2019.0069. Epub 2019 Sep 30.

Short Communication: Getting Older with HIV: Increasing Frequency of 
Comorbidities and Polypharmacy in Brazilian HIV Patients.

Brites C(1), Nogueira RS(2), Gosuen GC(3), Kalmar EMC(3), Leme STS(3), Martins 
RT(1), Oyama T(3), Bastos FA(1).

Author information:
(1)LAPI-Laboratório de Pesquisa em Infectologia, Complexo Hospitalar Professor 
Edgard Santos, Universidade Federal da Bahia, Salvador, Brazil.
(2)CRT-Centro de Referência e Treinamento em DST-AIDS, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Hospital São Paulo, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

Life expectancy of HIV patients has increased over time. Older HIV patients have 
a higher frequency of noncommunicable diseases (NCD) than general population, 
and require multiple treatments. The main objective is to evaluate the changes 
in frequency of NCD and polypharmacy in HIV patients of three referral centers 
in Salvador and São Paulo. We compared the frequency of NCD and use of 
concomitant treatments in HIV patients, >50 years, in three Brazilian referral 
centers (São Paulo and Salvador). Data on sociodemographic characteristics, HIV 
therapy, CD4 count and viral load measurements, and frequency of NCD at baseline 
and last medical visit were recorded. We evaluated 451 patients, 128 in Salvador 
and 323 in São Paulo. Mean age was 57.9 ± 6.9 years. Mean baseline CD4 count was 
199 ± 169. At baseline, dyslipidemia (4.0%) was the most frequent comorbidity, 
but at last visit we detected a high frequency of diabetes (14.9%), dyslipidemia 
(26.7%), osteoporosis (6.7%), stroke (4.4%), and malignancies (3.1%). Use of 
concomitant drugs for treatment of NCD increased significantly between first and 
last visit, especially antihypertensive, lipids lowering, and diabetes drugs. 
Aging in HIV patients in Brazil is characterized by an increasing incidence of 
NCD and polypharmacy.

DOI: 10.1089/AID.2019.0069
PMID: 31452382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. J Med Econ. 2019 Nov;22(11):1202-1209. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2019.1661581.
Epub  2019 Sep 17.

Cost-effectiveness model of abiraterone plus prednisone, cabazitaxel plus 
prednisone and enzalutamide for visceral metastatic castration resistant 
prostate cancer therapy after docetaxel therapy resistance.

Barqawi YK(1), Borrego ME(1), Roberts MH(1), Abraham I(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, University of New Mexico , Albuquerque , NM , USA.
(2)Center for Health Outcomes and PharmacoEconomic Research, College of 
Pharmacy, University of Arizona , Tucson , AZ , USA.

Aims: Among patients diagnosed with prostate cancer, 10-20% will develop 
castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) within 5 years; for 70%, CRPC will 
metastasize, mostly to the lungs and/or liver. We performed a cost-effectiveness 
model comparing abiraterone plus prednisone (ABI + PRD), cabazitaxel plus 
prednisone (CAB + PRD) and enzalutamide (ENZ) for visceral metastatic CRPC 
post-docetaxel therapy resistance. Methods: A three-state (Progression-Free, 
Progression, Death) lifetime Markov model was constructed to compare ABI + PRD, 
CAB + PRD, and ENZ from a United States healthcare payer perspective (2019 US$; 
discount rate 3%/yr.). Effectiveness was measured in life-years (LYs) and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Inputs included treatment costs, grade 
III/IV adverse events with incidence ≥5%, physician follow-up, lab and imaging 
tests. Phase III trial Kaplan-Meier curves were extrapolated to estimate overall 
survival and Progression-Free transition probabilities. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) and utility ratios (ICURs), probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses (PSAs) and cost-effectiveness acceptability curves at 
willingness-to-pay (WTP) thresholds were estimated. Results: Models estimated 
3-year overall survival rates of 1.3% for patients treated with ABI + PRD, 16.2% 
for CAB + PRD, and 13.2% for ENZ. Estimated Progression-Free rates at 1.5 years 
