Leeds, United Kingdom.
(5)Department of Microbiology, Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust and the 
University of Leeds, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    Clin Infect Dis. 2020 Jul 27;71(3):572-573.

BACKGROUND: Previous studies of outcomes in people who inject drugs (PWID) with 
infective endocarditis (IE) have often been retrospective, have had small sample 
sizes, and the duration of follow-up has been short and limited to patients who 
were operated on.
METHODS: PWID treated for IE between 1 January 2006 and 31 December 2016 were 
identified from a prospectively collected database. PWID hospitalized with other 
infections acted as a novel comparison group. Outcomes were all-cause mortality, 
cause of death, relapse, recurrence, and reoperation.
RESULTS: There were 105 episodes of IE in 92 PWID and 112 episodes of other 
infections in 107 PWID in whom IE was suspected but rejected. Survival at 30 
days for the IE group was 85%, and 30-day survival following surgery was 96%. 
The most common pathogens were Staphylococcus species (60%) and Streptococcus 
species (30%). The surgical intervention rate was 47%. Survival for the IE group 
at 1, 3, 5, and 10 years was 74%, 63%, 58%, and 44%, respectively. This was 
significantly lower compared with the comparator group of other infections in 
PWID (P = .0002). Mortality was higher in patients who required surgery compared 
with those who did not (hazard ratio, 1.8 [95% confidence interval, .95-3.3]). 
The commonest cause of death was infection (66%), usually a further episode of 
IE (55%).
CONCLUSIONS: Although early survival was good, long-term life expectancy was 
low. This was attributable to ongoing infection risk, rather than other factors 
known to affect prognosis in PWID. Surgery conferred no long-term survival 
advantage. More efforts are needed to reduce reinfection risk following an 
episode of IE in PWID.While early survival for people who inject drugs (PWID) 
with infective endocarditis is good, long-term survival is poor due to ongoing 
infection risk. Surgery conferred no long-term survival advantage, so more 
efforts are needed to reduce reinfection risks for PWID.

© Crown copyright 2019.

DOI: 10.1093/cid/ciz869
PMID: 31504326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Eur Heart J. 2019 Dec 7;40(46):3771-3778a. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehz404.

Estimating individual lifetime benefit and bleeding risk of adding rivaroxaban 
to aspirin for patients with stable cardiovascular disease: results from the 
COMPASS trial.

de Vries TI(1), Eikelboom JW(2), Bosch J(2), Westerink J(1), Dorresteijn JAN(1), 
Alings M(3), Dyal L(2), Berkowitz SD(4), van der Graaf Y(5), Fox KAA(6), 
Visseren FLJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Medicine, University Medical Center Utrecht, 
University Utrecht, GA Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(2)Population Health Research Institute, McMaster University and Hamilton Health 
Sciences, 237 Barton Street East, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Amphia Hospital, Langendijk 75, EV Breda, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Clinical Development, Thrombosis, Bayer U.S. LLC, Whippany, NJ, USA.
(5)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, University Utrecht, Universiteitsweg 100, CG Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(6)Centre for Cardiovascular Science, University of Edinburgh, 49 Little France 
Crescent, Edinburgh, UK.

Comment in
    Eur Heart J. 2019 Dec 7;40(46):3779-3781.

AIMS: Adding rivaroxaban to aspirin in patients with stable atherosclerotic 
disease reduces the recurrence of cardiovascular disease (CVD) but increases the 
risk of major bleeding. The aim of this study was to estimate the individual 
lifetime treatment benefit and harm of adding low-dose rivaroxaban to aspirin in 
patients with stable cardiovascular disease.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Patients with established CVD from the COMPASS trial 
(n = 27 390) and SMART prospective cohort study (n = 8139) were used. Using the 
pre-existing lifetime SMART-REACH model for recurrent CVD, and a newly developed 
Fine and Gray competing risk-adjusted lifetime model for major bleeding, 
individual treatment effects from adding low-dose rivaroxaban to aspirin in 
patients with stable CVD were estimated, expressed in terms of (i) life-years 
free of stroke or myocardial infarction (MI) gained; and (ii) life-years free 
from major bleeding lost. Calibration of the SMART-REACH model for prediction of 
recurrent CVD events in the COMPASS study was good. The major bleeding risk 
model as derived in the COMPASS trial showed good external calibration in the 
SMART cohort. Predicted individual gain in life expectancy free of stroke or MI 
from added low-dose rivaroxaban had a median of 16 months (range 1-48 months), 
while predicted individualized lifetime lost in terms of major bleeding had a 
median of 2 months (range 0-20 months).
CONCLUSION: There is a wide distribution in lifetime gain and harm from adding 
low-dose rivaroxaban to aspirin in individual patients with stable CVD. Using 
these lifetime models, benefits and bleeding risk can be weighed for each 
individual patient, which could facilitate treatment decisions in clinical 
practice.

Published on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. 
© The Author(s) 2019. For permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehz404
PMID: 31504399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Gerontologist. 2020 Jul 15;60(5):e395-e412. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnz113.

Ecological Gait as a Fall Indicator in Older Adults: A Systematic Review.

Job M(1)(2), Dottor A(1), Viceconti A(1), Testa M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Rehabilitation, Ophthalmology, Genetics, Maternal 
and Child Health, University of Genoa, Campus of Savona, Italy.
(2)Rehabilitation and Engineering Laboratory (REHElab), University of Genoa, 
Campus of Savona, Italy.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Falls represent a major threat for elders, affecting 
their life quality and expectancy. Clinical tests and questionnaires showed low 
diagnostic value with respect to fall risk. Modern sensor technology allows 
in-home gait assessments, with the possibility to register older adults' 
ecological mobility and, potentially, to improve accuracy in determining fall 
risk. Hence, we studied the correlation between standardized assessments and 
ecological gait measures, comparing their ability to identify fall risk and 
predict prospective falls.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHOD: A systematic review was conducted following the 
Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis statement 
guidelines.
RESULTS: From a total of 938 studies screened, nine articles with an 
observational study design were included. Evidence from selected works was 
subcategorized in (i) correlations between ecological and clinical measures and 
comparative statistics of (ii) prospective fall prediction and (iii) fall risk 
identification. A large number of correlations were observed between single 
ecological gait assessments and multiple clinical fall risk evaluations. 
Moreover, the combination of daily-life features and clinical tests outcomes 
seemed to improve diagnostic accuracy in fall risk identification and fall 
prediction. However, it was not possible to understand the extent of this 
enhancement due to the high variability in models' parameters.
DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Evidence suggested that sensor-based ecological 
assessments of gait could boost diagnostic accuracy of fall risk measurement 
protocols if used in combination with clinical tests. Nevertheless, further 
studies are needed to understand what ecological features of gait should be 
considered and to standardize models' definition.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnz113
PMID: 31504484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Int J Epidemiol. 2019 Oct 1;48(5):1601-1603. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyz177.

Commentary: Important lessons from the unfolding health crisis in Venezuela.

Jasilionis D(1), Jdanov DA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Demographic Data, Max Planck Institute for Demographic 
Research, Rostock, Germany.
(2)International Laboratory for Population and Health, National Research 
University Higher School of Economics, Moscow, Russia.

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2019 Oct 1;48(5):1593-1601.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyz177
PMID: 31504567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Orthopedics. 2019 Nov 1;42(6):e502-e506. doi: 10.3928/01477447-20190906-03.
Epub  2019 Sep 12.

Two-Stage Treatment for Ankylosing Spondylitis With Severe Hip Contracture.

Zeng Y, Huang Q, Ma H, Xu B.

Ankylosing spondylitis is a progressive inflammatory disease that often involves 
the hip, causing deformities and dysfunction. Total hip arthroplasty (THA) may 
be used, but contracture of the hip joint in ankylosing spondylitis makes THA 
technically difficult and leads to poor efficacy. This retrospective study 
describes a novel 2-stage surgical treatment for ankylosing spondylitis of the 
hip and evaluates its efficacy relative to THA alone. Patients with ankylosing 
spondylitis and severe hip flexion contracture treated between 2011 and 2017 
were assigned to either an experimental group or an age-matched control group 
(n=12 each) based on receiving, respectively, soft tissue release of the hip 
joint, femoral osteotomy, and supracondylar bone traction (stage I) and THA 
(stage II) or THA only. Clinical and radiological data included preoperative, 
postoperative, and follow-up Harris Hip Score and visual analog scale score, hip 
range of motion, femoral nerve injury, and heterotopic ossification. Both groups 
had significant corrections after surgery. At the final follow-up, the 
experimental group had significantly higher Harris Hip Scores and range of 
motion in extension compared with the control group, significantly more 
reduction in visual analog scale score, and no femoral nerve injury. The novel 
2-stage surgery for patients with ankylosing spondylitis and severe hip flexion 
contracture is effective for restoring hip function and improving patients' 
quality of life, having fewer complications than traditional THA alone. 
[Orthopedics. 2019; 42(6):e502-e506.].

Copyright 2019, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/01477447-20190906-03
PMID: 31505016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Gerontology. 2020;66(2):122-130. doi: 10.1159/000502142. Epub 2019 Sep 10.

SUMOylation in Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Princz A(1), Tavernarakis N(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Foundation for Research and 
Technology-Hellas, Department of Basic Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Crete, Heraklion, Greece.
(2)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Foundation for Research and 
Technology-Hellas, Department of Basic Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Crete, Heraklion, Greece, tavernarakis@imbb.forth.gr.
(3)Department of Basic Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Crete, 
Heraklion, Greece, tavernarakis@imbb.forth.gr.

Posttranslational modifications are ubiquitous regulators of cellular processes. 
The regulatory role of SUMOylation, the attachment of a small ubiquitin-related 
modifier to a target protein, has been implicated in fundamental processes like 
cell division, DNA damage repair, mitochondrial homeostasis, and stress 
responses. Recently, it is gaining more attention in drug discovery as well. As 
life expectancy keeps rising, more individuals are at risk for developing 
age-associated diseases. This not only makes a person's life uncomfortable, but 
it also places an economic burden on society. Therefore, finding treatments for 
age-related diseases is an important issue. Understanding the basic mechanisms 
in the cell under normal and disease conditions is fundamental for drug 
discovery. There is an increasing number of reports showing that the ageing 
process could be influenced by SUMOylation. Similarly, SUMOylation is essential 
for proper neuronal function. In this review we summarize the latest results 
regarding the connection between SUMOylation and neurodegenerative diseases. We 
highlight the significance of specific SUMO target proteins and the importance 
of SUMO isoform specificity.

© 2019 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000502142
PMID: 31505513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Int Psychiatry. 2004 Jan 1;1(3):10-12. eCollection 2004 Jan.

Mental health services in Sri Lanka.

Mendis N(1).

Author information:
(1)Professor of Psychiatry, University of Colombo, Sri Lanka, email 
nalaka@sri.lanka.net.

Relative to its economic indicators, Sri Lanka has a high health status. The 
life expectancy in the year 2001 was 70.7 years for males and 75.4 years for 
females. Maternal and infant mortality rates have shown a downward trend over 
the past half century and now are around 2.3 per 10 000 live births and 16 per 
1000 live births, respectively. These trends are mainly due to the high literacy 
rate and comparatively large investments made in health and social welfare.

PMCID: PMC6733103
PMID: 31507673


366. Int Psychiatry. 2004 Jan 1;1(3):13-15. eCollection 2004 Jan.

Psychiatry in Turkey.

Coskun B(1).

Author information:
(1)Professor of Psychiatry, Kocaeli University Medical School; Director of 
Community Mental Health, Research and Training Centre, Kocaeli University, email 
bcoskun@isbank.net.tr.

The Republic of Turkey has a population of 67.4 million (year 2000) and covers 
783 563 km2; administratively it is divided into 81 provinces. A few national 
statistics from 2000 are: infant death rate 41.9/1000; life expectancy at birth 
68 years; unemployment rate 6.6%; gross national product (GNP) per capita 
US$2965; and adult literacy rate 87.32% (females 80.64%; males 93.86%) (State 
Statistics Institute, 2003).

PMCID: PMC6733099
PMID: 31507674


367. Int Psychiatry. 2004 Apr 1;1(4):14-16. eCollection 2004 Apr.

Mental health services in Albania.

Suli A(1), Lazëri L(2), Nano L(3).

Author information:
(1)Head of the Psychiatric Department of the University Hospital Centre, 'Mother 
Teresa', Tirana, and Chairman of the National Steering Committee for Mental 
Health.
(2)National Professional Officer at the WHO Country Office, Albania, and 
Coordinator of the Albanian Development Centre for Mental Health, email 
ledial@who-albania.org.
(3)Psychologist at the Albanian Development Centre for Mental Health.

Albania, situated in the western Balkans, has an area of 28 748 km2 and a 
population of 3 069 275 (year 2001), almost one-third of whom are aged 0-14 
years. Life expectancy is estimated to be 70.4 years for both sexes (World 
Health Organization, 2003a). According to the World Health Organization's 
classification, Albania is a country with low child and low adult mortality 
rates. The nation's total expenditure on health in 2001 amounted to 3.7% of 
gross domestic product.

PMCID: PMC6733069
PMID: 31507685


368. Int Psychiatry. 2005 Jan 1;2(7):10-12. eCollection 2005 Jan.

Mental healthcare in South Korea.

Suh GH(1).

Author information:
(1)Associate Professor of Psychiatry, Hallym University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea; Visiting Lecturer, Imperial College School of 
Medicine, London, UK, email: suhgh@chol.com.

The Korean peninsula is located between China and Japan. After the Second World 
War, the Republic of Korea was established in the southern half of the Korean 
peninsula. South Korea has a total area of 98 480 km2 and a population of 48 598 
175 (July 2004 estimate). The per capita gross domestic product (GDP), in terms 
of purchasing power parity, is US$17 700 (2003 estimate) (Central Intelligence 
Agency, 2004). The illiteracy rate (among those aged over 15 years) is 1.9% 
(0.7% for males and 3% for females) (2003 estimate). Life expectancy at birth is 
75.6 years (72.0 years for males and 79.5 years for females) and the infant 
mortality rate is 7.2 per 1000 births (2004 estimate). The unemployment rate is 
3.4% (2003 estimate). The proportion of the population aged 65 and over is 
currently 8.7% (2004 estimate) (Korea National Statistics Office, 2003). Over 
40% of the total Korean population (i.e. some 20 million) lives in Seoul and its 
vicinity. South Korea is highly urbanised and modernised. Besides central 
government, local government is based on seven metropolitan cities and nine 
provinces.

PMCID: PMC6733113
PMID: 31507797


369. Int Psychiatry. 2005 Apr 1;2(8):12-14. eCollection 2005 Apr.

Mental health policy and programmes in Kenya.

Njenga FG(1), Kigamwa PA(2).

Author information:
(1)Chiromo Lane Medical Centre, University of Nairobi, Kenya, email 
fnjenga@africaonline.co.ke.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Nairobi.

Following a 10-year war of liberation (fought by the Mau Mau against the 
British), Kenya attained full independence from colonial rule in 1963. For 10 
years the country enjoyed rapid economic growth (6-7% per annum) but this slowed 
steadily to near stagnation in the 1990s. Poor governance, abuse of human 
rights, internal displacements of citizens, large numbers of refugees from 
neighbouring countries and the AIDS pandemic conspired to reduce Kenyans' life 
expectancy to 47 years (in the UK it is presently 77 years). Some 42% of the 
population now live below the poverty line, and 26% of Kenyans exist on less 
than US$1 per day. The annual per capita income in Kenya is US$360 (in the UK it 
is $24 000) (World Bank, 2002). AIDS currently has an estimated prevalence rate 
of 12%. In large parts of rural Kenya many sexually active adults are unable to 
work, and elderly grandparents are left to look after orphaned children (some 
already infected with HIV), as they struggle to deal with their own grief for 
the loss of many of their own children. In December 2002 a new government was 
elected, which gives some grounds for optimism in an otherwise bleak situation.

PMCID: PMC6733126
PMID: 31507808


370. Int Psychiatry. 2006 Jan 1;3(1):5-7. eCollection 2006 Jan.

Suicide trends and characteristics in Brazil.

de Mello-Santos C(1), Bertolote JM(2), Wang YP(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatry Institute of the Universidade de São Paulo School of Medicine, São 
Paulo, Brazil, email caro_mello@hotmail.com.
(2)World Health Organization Team on Management of Mental and Brain Disorders.
(3)Santo Amaro School of Medicine, UNISA, São Paulo, Brazil.

Brazil is the largest and most populous country in South America (in 2002 the 
population was approximately 175 million). Although life expectancy in Brazil 
has increased, suicide and other forms of injury-related mortality, such as 
homicide and accident, have increased as a proportion of overall mortality 
(Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, 1984; Brazil Ministry of Health, 2001). The suicide 
rate in Brazil (3.0-4.0 per 100 000 inhabitants) is not considered high in 
global terms (World Health Organization, 1999). Nevertheless, it has followed 
the world tendency towards growth: during 1980-2000, the suicide rate in Brazil 
increased by 21%. Elderly people present the highest suicide rates in absolute 
numbers, but the alarming finding in the Brazilian data is that the youth 
population is increasingly dying by suicide (Mello-Santos et al, 2005). This 
statistic partially confirms a forecast by Diekstra & Guilbinat (1993) that the 
number of deaths by suicide would dramatically increase over the next decades, 
mainly in developing countries, including Latin America. In these regions, 
socio-economic factors (such as an increase in divorce and unemployment and a 
decrease in religiosity) increase the risk of self-harm. We discuss the reasons 
for the low suicide rate in Brazil and highlight the socio-economic factors 
affecting its increase among the youth population in particular.

PMCID: PMC6734721
PMID: 31507826


371. Int Psychiatry. 2006 Apr 1;3(2):27-28. eCollection 2006 Apr.

Health inequalities.

Ghodse H(1).

Author information:
(1)Director, Board of International Affairs, and Editor, International 
Psychiatry.

The association between mental illness and poor physical health has been known 
for decades (Philips, 1934). This is not a trivial relationship between mental 
ill health and minor physical problems but an association with such poor 
physical health that it results in premature death. For example, a study in the 
USA showed that the life expectancy of those with schizophrenia or other serious 
mental illness was 9 years shorter than for the general population (Dembling et 
al, 1999). Similarly, those with learning disabilities have an increased risk of 
early death, and this increase is greater in those with severe disability.

PMCID: PMC6734689
PMID: 31507836


372. Int Psychiatry. 2006 Oct 1;3(4):3-6. eCollection 2006 Oct.

Ageing and dementia in developing countries - the work of the 10/66 Dementia 
Research Group.

Prince M(1), Acosta D(2).

Author information:
(1)Professor of Epidemiological Psychiatry, Institute of Psychiatry, King's 
College London, UK.
(2)Universidad Nacional Pedro Henriquez Ureña (UNPHU), Departamento de Medicina 
Interna, Seccion de Geriatria, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic; Vice-Chair, 
Alzheimer's Disease International.

Demographic ageing proceeds apace in all world regions (United Nations, 2003). 
The proportion of older people increases as mortality falls and life expectancy 
increases. Population growth slows as fertility declines to replacement levels. 
Latin America, China and India are experiencing unprecedentedly rapid 
demographic ageing (Figs 1 and 2).

PMCID: PMC6734700
PMID: 31507860


373. Int Psychiatry. 2006 Oct 1;3(4):16-18. eCollection 2006 Oct.

Psychiatry in Qatar.

Ghuloum S(1), Ibrahim MA(2).

Author information:
(1)Consultant Psychiatrist, Psychiatry Department, Hamad Medical Corporation, PO 
Box 3050, Doha, Qatar, email sghuloum@hmc.org.qa.
(2)Chairman, Psychiatry Department, Hamad Medical Corporation, email 
psychiatry@hmc.org.qa.

The State of Qatar is a peninsula overlooking the Arabian Gulf, with an area of 
11 400 km2. The Al Thani family has ruled the country since the mid-1800s. The 
population of just over 860 000 is of a multi-ethnic nature, and predominantly 
resides in the capital, Doha. Only about 20% of the population is Qatari. Around 
73% of the population are between the ages of 15 and 64 years. Life expectancy 
at birth is 74.8 years for males and 73.8 years for females. The literacy rate 
is 94.9% for men and 82.3% for women. Arabic is the official language and 
English is a common second language. The economy is dominated by oil and natural 
gas, and the country has one of the highest per capita incomes in the world. The 
per capita government expenditure on health is $574 (international dollars), 
which is among the highest in the region.

PMCID: PMC6734701
PMID: 31507865


374. Int Psychiatry. 2007 Apr 1;4(2):37-38. eCollection 2007 Apr.

Psychiatry in Cambodia: the phoenix rises from the ashes.

MacCabe J(1), Sunbaunat K(2), Bunthoeun P(3).

Author information:
(1)MRC Training Fellow in Health of the Public Research, Department of 
Psychiatry, PO 63, Institute of Psychiatry, London SE5 8AF, UK, email 
james.maccabe@iop.kcl.ac.uk.
(2)Director of the National Programme for Mental Health, Ministry of Health, No. 
151-153, Kampuchea Krom Blvd, Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
(3)Deputy Director of the National Programme for Mental Health, Ministry of 
Health, Cambodia.

Cambodia is a low-income country in south-east Asia. It covers an area of 181 
035 km2 and has a population of 14.5 million, of whom 42% are less than 15 years 
old. Life expectancy is 56.8 years and 36% of the population live on less than 
US$0.50 per day. Cambodia experienced a brutal civil war and genocide in the 
1970s under the Khmer Rouge regime, during which approximately 1.7 million 
Cambodians were killed (Chandler, 1999) and the social and medical 
infrastructure was almost completely destroyed. No mental health services 
existed throughout the conflict and subsequent Vietnamese occupation, despite 
the incalculable impact of the Khmer Rouge regime on Cambodians' mental health. 
The current political situation is more stable, although there remain concerns 
about human rights abuses (Khan, 2005).

PMCID: PMC6734772
PMID: 31507887


375. Int Psychiatry. 2008 Oct 1;5(4):88-90. eCollection 2008 Oct.

Psychiatry in Belgium.

Baig BJ(1), Delvenne V(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Lecturer in Psychiatry, Division of Psychiatry, University of 
Edinburgh, Royal Edinburgh Hospital, Edinburgh EH10 5HF, UK, email 
bbaig@staffmail.ed.ac.uk.
(2)Vice-Présidente, Société Belge Francophone de Psychiatrie et des Disciplines 
Associées de l'Enfance et de l'Adolescence, Professor of Child and Adolescent 
Psychiatry, Free University of Brussels, Espace Thérapeutique 
Enfants-Adolescents-Parents, 24 Rue Ketels, 1020 Brussels, Belgium, email 
v.delvenne@skynet.be.

The Kingdom of Belgium is a high-income country in northern Europe with an 
approximate area of 33 000 km2 and a population of 10.5 million. The proportion 
of the population under the age of 15 years is 17% and the proportion of the 
population above the age of 60 years is 22%. Life expectancy at birth is 75.2 
years for males and 81.5 years for females. As a founding member of what is now 
the European Union, it hosts the headquarters of the European Commission and the 
European Parliament, as well as other major organisations, including NATO.

PMCID: PMC6734844
PMID: 31507959


376. Int Psychiatry. 2009 Oct 1;6(4):88-90. eCollection 2009 Oct.

Psychiatry and mental health in Portugal.

Marques-Teixeira J(1), Fradique E(2).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatrist and Psychotherapist, email marquesteixeira@netcabo.pt.
(2)Psychiatrist, email elisabete.fradique@gmail.com.

Portugal is in the south-west of Europe; its territory includes the Azores and 
Madeira islands, giving it an area of 91 900 km2. The total resident population 
of Portugal was 10 579 000 in 2006. The population density was 115 per km2. The 
birth rate has been declining, from 20.0 per 1000 population in 1970 to 10.4 in 
2004. Life expectancy at birth in 2006 was 75 for males and 82 years for 
females. Healthy life expectancy at birth in 2003 was 67 and 72 years, 
respectively. The infant mortality rate decreased from 10.8 per 1000 in 1991 to 
3.5 per 1000 in 2005. The median age of the population has been steadily rising.

PMCID: PMC6734897
PMID: 31508007


377. Int Psychiatry. 2009 Oct 1;6(4):98-100. eCollection 2009 Oct.

State of indigenous mental health in Australia - a colonial legacy?

Rege S(1).

Author information:
(1)Consultant Psychiatrist, Northern Sydney Central Coast Mental Health Service, 
Australia, email rege_1@yahoo.es.

The Aboriginal culture of Australia is one of the oldest cultures on earth, 
dating back 50 000 years. The Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander (ATSI) 
people are the indigenous inhabitants of Australia, constituting 2.4% of the 
population. The health status of these 'First Australians' has been described as 
a source of national shame, with the life expectancy approximately 17 years 
lower than that of other Australians (Eades, 2000). This gap in life expectancy 
is also significantly larger than that of other countries with indigenous 
populations and a history of colonisation, such as the USA, Canada and New 
Zealand (Ring & Firman, 1998). This paper offers an overview of the impact of 
colonisation and its subsequent influence on the social and emotional well-being 
of ATSI people.

PMCID: PMC6734892
PMID: 31508011


378. Int Psychiatry. 2010 Jan 1;7(1):11-13. eCollection 2010 Jan.

A decade of mental health services in Timor-Leste.

Hawkins Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Advisor to the Ministry of Health for Mental Health, Epilepsy and Health 
Research, Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste email zoe.hawkins@doctors.org.uk.

The Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste (East Timor) occupies the eastern half of 
the island of Timor, which lies north-west of Australia and within the eastern 
Indonesia archipelago. The population is approximately one million, of whom 45% 
are below the age of 15. Average life expectancy is 59.5 years and 50% of the 
population live below the national poverty line of US$0.88 per day. The official 
languages are Tetun and Portuguese, with Indonesian also used. The majority of 
the population are Catholic but also hold traditional animist beliefs.

PMCID: PMC6734948
PMID: 31508019


379. Int Psychiatry. 2010 Apr 1;7(2):39-41. eCollection 2010 Apr.

Russian Federation: mental healthcare and reform.

Krasnov V(1), Gurovich I(2), Bobrov A(3).

Author information:
(1)Director, and Head of Department of Affective Spectrum Disorders, Moscow 
Research Institute of Psychiatry, Russia email krasnov@mtu-net.ru.
(2)Deputy Director, and Head of Department of Organisation of Mental Healthcare, 
Moscow Research Institute of Psychiatry.
(3)Deputy Director for Education, Moscow Research Institute of Psychiatry.

The Russian Federation is a country with an enormous territory, of over 17 
million km2. Its population is 141.9 million (2010 figure). The population was 
declining, especially at the end of the 1990s, but in more recent years the 
tendency has been towards stabilisation. Life expectancy has remained relatively 
low, although it has increased somewhat over the past few years, to reach 67.5 
years in 2008 (61.4 for men and 73.9 for women), up from 65.3 years in 2004 
(58.9 for men and 72.3 for women).

PMCID: PMC6734957
PMID: 31508031


380. Int Psychiatry. 2010 Oct 1;7(4):90-92. eCollection 2010 Oct.

Psychiatry in the USA: an overview.

Bernstein CA(1), Hershfield B(2), Cohen DC(3).

Author information:
(1)President, American Psychiatric Association, Associate Professor of 
Psychiatry, New York University School of Medicine, USA, email 
carol.bernstein@nyumc.org.
(2)Assistant Professor, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
MA, USA.
(3)Senior Writer, American Psychiatric Association.

The USA has the world's largest economy and the highest per capita spending on 
healthcare, but it lags behind other countries on a number of key health 
measures. It ranks 23rd in healthy life expectancy and 32nd in infant mortality 
(World Health Organization, 2009). In 2000, the World Health Organization ranked 
the US healthcare system as 1st in responsiveness, 37th in overall performance, 
and 72nd by overall level of health (among 191 member nations in the study).

PMCID: PMC6734990
PMID: 31508054


381. Heliyon. 2019 Aug 31;5(8):e02376. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2019.e02376. 
eCollection 2019 Aug.

Potential of Juniperus communis L as a nutraceutical in human and veterinary 
medicine.

Raina R(1), Verma PK(1), Peshin R(2), Kour H(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Veterinary Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Veterinary 
Science and Animal Husbandry, R S Pura, Jammu, 181102, Jammu & Kashmir, India.
(2)Division of Agricultural Extension Education, Faculty of Agriculture, 
Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology of Jammu 
Chatha, Jammu, 180009, India.

Plants have been used for thousands of years as medicine for treating variety of 
diseases and medical complaints by most of the civilizations. Juniperus communis 
L. is an evergreen aromatic shrub with high therapeutic potential for the 
treatment of diseases in human and animals. The plant is rich in aromatic oils, 
invert sugars, resins, catechin, organic acid, terpenic acids, 
leucoanthocyanidin, alkaloids, flavonoids, tannins, gums, lignins, wax, etc. 
Juniper berries or extract of the plant has traditionally been used as diuretic, 
anti-arthritis, anti-diabetes, antiseptic as well as for the treatment of 
gastrointestinal and autoimmune disorders. The essential oil and extracts of 
juniper have been experimentally documented to have antioxidant, antibacterial, 
antiviral and antifungal activities. Recent studies have also found 
anti-inflammatory, cytotoxic, hypoglycemic and hypolipidemic effects of berries 
in experimental models. Further, the essential oil incorporation retarded lipid 
peroxidation in preserved meat due to its high antioxidant effect which not only 
improved meat product quality but also improved shelf life of the product. Thus 
natural antioxidant such as juniper can be used in place synthetic antioxidant 
for the preservation and improving self-life of meat products. New well designed 
clinical trials in human and animals using well-characterized J. communis 
extract or oil need to be conducted so that additional information is generated 
which can support the use of this natural product as a nutraceutical.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2019.e02376
PMCID: PMC6726717
PMID: 31508527


382. Glycobiology. 2019 Dec 12;30(1):49-57. doi: 10.1093/glycob/cwz073.

Advanced glycation end products (AGEs), protein aggregation and their cross 
talk: new insight in tumorigenesis.

Haque E(1)(2), Kamil M(1)(2)(3), Hasan A(4), Irfan S(4), Sheikh S(1), Khatoon 
A(4), Nazir A(5), Mir SS(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosciences, Faculty of Science, Integral University, Kursi 
Road, Lucknow 226026, India.
(2)Department of Immunology and Medical Genetics, School of Medicine, University 
of Split, Soltanskaul. 2, 21000, Split, Croatia.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Beykoz Life Sciences and Biotechnology Institute 
(BILSAB), Bezmialem Vakif University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(4)Department of Bioengineering, Faculty of Engineering, Integral University, 
Kursi Road, Lucknow 226026, India.
(5)Division of Neuroscience and Ageing Biology, CSIR-Central Drug Research 
Institute, BS-10/1, Sector 10, Jankipuram extension, Sitapur Road, Lucknow, 
226031, India.

Protein glycation and protein aggregation are two distinct phenomena being 
observed in cancer cells as factors promoting cancer cell viability. Protein 
aggregation is an abnormal interaction between proteins caused as a result of 
structural changes in them after any mutation or environmental assault. Protein 
aggregation is usually associated with neurodegenerative diseases like 
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's, but of late, research findings have shown its 
association with the development of different cancers like lung, breast and 
ovarian cancer. On the contrary, protein glycation is a cascade of irreversible 
nonenzymatic reaction of reducing sugar with the amino group of the protein 
resulting in the modification of protein structure and formation of advanced 
glycation end products (AGEs). These AGEs are reported to obstruct the normal 
function of proteins. Lately, it has been reported that protein aggregation 
occurs as a result of AGEs. This aggregation of protein promotes the 
transformation of healthy cells to neoplasia leading to tumorigenesis. In this 
review, we underline the current knowledge of protein aggregation and glycation 
along with the cross talk between the two, which may eventually lead to the 
development of cancer.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/glycob/cwz073
PMID: 31508802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2020 Jan;68(1):78-86. doi: 10.1111/jgs.16157. Epub 2019
Sep  11.

Physician Perspectives on Deprescribing Cardiovascular Medications for Older 
Adults.

Goyal P(1), Anderson TS(2), Bernacki GM(3)(4), Marcum ZA(5), Orkaby AR(6)(7), 
Kim D(8), Zullo A(9)(10), Krishnaswami A(11)(12), Weissman A(13), Steinman 
MA(14)(15), Rich MW(16).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New York.
(2)Division of General Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(3)Cardiology Division, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.
(4)Cambia Palliative Care Center of Excellence, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.
(6)New England Geriatric Research, Education, and Clinical Center, Veterans 
Affairs (VA) Boston Healthcare System, Boston, Massachusetts.
(7)Division of Aging, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts.
(8)Marcus Institute for Aging Research, Hebrew SeniorLife, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(9)Department of Epidemiology and Health Services, Policy, and Practice, Brown 
University School of Public Health, Providence, Rhode Island.
(10)Center of Innovation in Long Term Services and Supports, Providence Veterans 
Affairs (VA) Medical Center, Providence, Rhode Island.
(11)Division of Cardiology, Kaiser Permanente San Jose Medical Center, San Jose, 
California.
(12)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California.
(13)Division of Geriatrics, San Francisca Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San 
Francisco, California.
(14)San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San Francisco, California.
(15)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California.
(16)Cardiovascular Division, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, 
Missouri.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Guideline-based management of cardiovascular disease 
often involves prescribing multiple medications, which contributes to 
polypharmacy and risk for adverse drug events in older adults. Deprescribing is 
a potential strategy to mitigate these risks. We sought to characterize and 
compare clinician perspectives regarding deprescribing cardiovascular 
medications across three specialties.
DESIGN: National cross-sectional survey.
SETTING: Ambulatory.
PARTICIPANTS: Random sample of geriatricians, general internists, and 
cardiologists from the American College of Physicians.
MEASUREMENTS: Electronic survey assessing clinical practice of deprescribing 
cardiovascular medications, reasons and barriers to deprescribing, and choice of 
medications to deprescribe in hypothetical clinical cases.
RESULTS: In each specialty, 750 physicians were surveyed, with a response rate 
of 26% for geriatricians, 26% for general internists, and 12% for cardiologists. 
Over 80% of respondents within each specialty reported that they had recently 
considered deprescribing a cardiovascular medication. Adverse drug reactions 
were the most common reason for deprescribing for all specialties. Geriatricians 
also commonly reported deprescribing in the setting of limited life expectancy. 
Barriers to deprescribing were shared across specialties and included concerns 
about interfering with other physicians' treatment plans and patient reluctance. 
In hypothetical cases, over 90% of physicians in each specialty chose to 
deprescribe when patients experienced adverse drug reactions. Geriatricians were 
most likely and cardiologists were least likely to consider deprescribing 
cardiovascular medications in cases of limited life expectancy (all P < .001), 
such as recurrent metastatic cancer (84% of geriatricians, 68% of general 
internists, and 45% of cardiologists), Alzheimer dementia (92% of geriatricians, 
81% of general internists, and 59% of cardiologists), or significant functional 
impairment (83% of geriatricians, 68% of general internists, and 45% of 
cardiologists).
CONCLUSIONS: While barriers to deprescribing cardiovascular medications are 
shared across specialties, reasons for deprescribing, especially in the setting 
of limited life expectancy, varied. Implementing deprescribing will require 
improved processes for both physician-physician and physician-patient 
communication. J Am Geriatr Soc 68:78-86, 2019.

© 2019 The American Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.16157
PMCID: PMC7061460
PMID: 31509233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. J Oncol Pract. 2019 Nov;15(11):e942-e947. doi: 10.1200/JOP.19.00250. Epub
2019  Sep 11.

"My Family Wants Something Different": Discordance in Perceived Personal and 
Family Treatment Preference and Its Association With Do-Not-Resuscitate Order 
Placement.

George LS(1), Breitbart W(1), Prigerson HG(2).

Author information:
(1)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY.
(2)Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY.

PURPOSE: Patients make treatment decisions based not only on what they want, but 
what they think their families want. Discordance in such perceived preferences 
may therefore pose challenges for advance care planning. This study examines 
discordance in preference for life-extending care versus comfort-focused care 
and its association with do-not-resuscitate (DNR) order placement.
METHODS: One hundred eighty-nine patients with advanced cancers refractory to at 
least one chemotherapy regimen were enrolled in a multisite observational study. 
In structured interviews, patients reported their preference for treatment 
maximizing either life extension or comfort; patients also indicated their 
perception of their families' preference. DNR placement was reported by patients 
and verified using medical records.
RESULTS: Approximately 23% of patients (n = 43) perceived discordance between 
their preference and their families' preference. Patients who perceived 
discordance were less likely to have completed a DNR compared with those who 
perceived concordance, even after controlling for relevant confounds (odds ratio 
= .35; P = .02). Subgroups of discordance and concordance showed varying DNR 
placement rates (χ2, 19.95; P < .001). DNR placement rate was lowest among 
discordant subgroups, where there was either a personal (26.7%; four of 15) or 
family preference for comfort care (28.6%; eight of 28), followed by patients 
who perceived concordance for wanting life-extending care (34.5%; 29 of 84) and 
by patients who perceived concordance in wanting comfort-focused care (66.1%; 41 
of 62).
CONCLUSION: Many patients may perceive discordance between personal and family 
treatment preferences, posing impediments to advance care planning. Such 
patients may benefit from additional decision support.

DOI: 10.1200/JOP.19.00250
PMCID: PMC7010415
PMID: 31509484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. J Wound Care. 2019 Sep 1;28(Sup9):S14-S26. doi:
10.12968/jowc.2019.28.Sup9.S14.

Health economics for treatment of diabetic foot ulcers: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis of eight skin substitutes.

Samsell B(1), McLean J(2), Cazzell S(3), Dorsch K(2), Moyer PM(4), Moore M(1).

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, Research Triangle Park, NC, US.
(2)LifeNet Health, Virginia Beach, VA, US.
(3)Limb Preservation Platform, Valley Vascular Surgical Associates, Fresno, CA, 
US.
(4)Pruvis-Moyer Foot and Ankle Center, Rocky Mount, NC, US.

AIM: Skin substitutes are frequently used to treat chronic diabetic foot ulcers 
(DFU), and many different options are available. While the clinical efficacy of 
many products has been evaluated, a comprehensive cost-effectiveness analysis 
comparing the most popular skin substitutes and using the most recent cost data 
has been lacking.
METHODS: This study compared eight skin substitutes using published efficacy 
rates combined with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) 2018 
cost data. The study criteria resulted in the inclusion of seven studies that 
described efficacy rates for treatment of DFUs using the skin substitutes.
RESULTS: The results revealed wide discrepancies between these skin substitutes 
for the costs of treatments and healing rates in hospital outpatient departments 
and physician office settings. Healing rates for 12 and 16 weeks ranged from 28% 
to 68%, while the average cost for treating one DFU varied from $2001 to $14,507 
and $1207 to $8791 in the hospital outpatient department and physician's office 
setting, respectively. The estimated patient share of costs for treating a 
single DFU ranged from $400 to $2901 and $241 to $1758 in the hospital 
outpatient department and physician's office setting, respectively. Most 
importantly, the estimated number of wounds healed out of 100 DFUs per $1000 
expenditure with each patient ranged from 3.9-26.5 DFUs in the hospital 
outpatient department, and 4.3-36.4 DFUs in the physicians' office setting.
CONCLUSIONS: This study revealed that the costs of a skin substitute itself did 
not necessarily correlate with its healing efficacy. These results provide a 
comprehensive cost-effectiveness analysis to enable integrated health-care 
systems, health professionals and reimbursement payers to make informed value 
decisions when treating DFUs.

DOI: 10.12968/jowc.2019.28.Sup9.S14
PMID: 31509489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. PLoS One. 2019 Sep 11;14(9):e0221556. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0221556. 
eCollection 2019.

Projecting burden of hypertension and its management in Turkey, 2015-2030.

Yurekli AA(1), Bilir N(2), Husain MJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Visiting Senior Research Scientist at UIC Illinois, Chicago, Illinois, United 
States of America.
(2)Institute of Public Health, Hacettepe University, Ankara, Turkey.
(3)Global Noncommunicable Diseases Branch, Division of Global Health Protection, 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, United States of 
America.

BACKGROUND: In Turkey, hypertension was responsible for 13% of total deaths in 
2015. We apply existing research finding regarding the impact of a 
population-wide reduction in sodium consumption on the decrease of the 
hypertension prevalence rate among 15+ years population and the gender-age 
specific reduction in total death rates among 30+ years population, and compare 
hypertension burden, averted deaths, costs and benefits between two scenarios.
METHODS: The first scenario (i.e. status quo) assumes constant hypertension 
prevalence rate and the death rates between 2015 and 2030. Based on the 
Framingham Heart Study and INTERSALT Study findings on the impact of 
salt-reduction strategies on hypertension prevalence rate, the second scenario 
(Scenario II) assumes a 17% reduction in the prevalence of hypertension in 
Turkey in 2030, from its 2015 prevalence level. We project hypertension 
attributable disability adjusted life years (DALYs) in 2030, monetize DALYs 
using GDP (and income) per capita, and compare the projected economic benefits 
of DALYs averted and the additional costs associated with the increases in 
hypertension treatment through antihypertensive medications and physician 
consultations.
RESULTS: The estimated benefits of reducing the economic burden of hypertension 
deaths outweigh the cost of providing hypertension treatment. A decrease in 
hypertension prevalence by 17%, attributable to population-wide reduction in 
salt consumption, is projected to avert 24.3 thousand deaths in 2030. We 
projected that, compared to status quo, 392 thousand DALYs will be averted in 
Scenario II in 2030. The economic benefits of reduction in potential 
hypertension deaths are estimated to be 6.7 to 8.6 folds higher than the 
additional cost of hypertension treatment.
CONCLUSION: Population-wide hypertension prevention and management is a win-win 
situation for public health and the Turkish health care system as the economic 
benefits of reducing deaths and disabilities associated with hypertension 
outweigh the costs significantly.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0221556
PMCID: PMC6738591
PMID: 31509548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


387. Liver Int. 2020 Jan;40(1):51-59. doi: 10.1111/liv.14247. Epub 2019 Sep 25.

The health impact of delaying direct-acting antiviral treatment for chronic 
hepatitis C: A decision-analytic approach.

Erman A(1)(2), Wong WWL(2)(3), Feld JJ(4), Grootendorst P(1), Krahn MD(1)(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Toronto Health Economics and Technology Assessment Collaborative (THETA), 
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)School of Pharmacy, University of Waterloo, Kitchener, ON, Canada.
(4)Toronto Centre for Liver Disease, Sandra Rotman Centre for Global Health, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(5)Toronto General Hospital Research Institute, Toronto, ON, Canada.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Direct-acting antivirals (DAAs) are highly effective, but 
expensive treatments for chronic hepatitis C (CHC). To manage costs, drug plans 
worldwide have rationed access to DAAs in a variety of ways. This study 
quantifies the health impact of formulary restrictions and presents a clinical 
decision tool for informing treatment timing decisions.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was developed to quantify the health impact 
of delaying DAAs for subpopulations stratified by age, fibrosis level, viral 
genotype, and injection drug use over their lifetime. The health impact was 
quantified in terms of quality-adjusted life expectancy (quality-adjusted life 
years, or QALYs) and life expectancy (years).
RESULTS: Deferring DAAs for patients with no or mild fibrosis (F0/F1) for 
1-5 years is unlikely to result in life expectancy losses and leads only to 
marginal losses of 0.02-0.06 QALYs per year of delay. However, for 
