(3)Tobacco Control Research Program, Wellbeing and Preventable Chronic Disease, 
Menzies School of Health Research, Casuarina, Northern Territory, Australia.
(4)Institute of Population Health Sciences, National Health Research Institutes, 
Zhunan, Miaoli County, Taiwan waynegao@tmu.edu.tw cwengood@nhri.edu.tw.
(5)China Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan.

Air pollution has been labelled the 'new smoking', with news articles bearing 
titles such as 'If You Live in a Big City You Already Smoke Every Day' and 'The 
Air Is So Bad in These Cities, You May As Well Be Smoking'. Dr Tedros Adhanom 
Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General, highlighted this attention-catching 
comparison, saying, 'The world has turned the corner on tobacco. Now it must do 
the same for the 'new tobacco' - the toxic air that billions breathe every day' 
and 'Globally, with smoking on the decline, air pollution now causes more deaths 
annually than tobacco' at the First Global Conference on Air Pollution and 
Health in 2018. The suggestion that the world has turned the corner on tobacco 
control and the reference to air pollution as the 'new smoking' raise a number 
of concerns. We generate outputs from GBD Compare (the online data visualisation 
tool of the Global Burden of Diseases and Injuries (GBD) Study) to demonstrate 
historical disease burden trends in terms of disability-adjusted life years and 
age-standardised mortality attributable to air pollution and tobacco use from 
1990 to 2017 across the globe. We find that the disease burden caused by ambient 
air pollution declined significantly faster than the burden caused by tobacco 
use. We conclude that the world is still far from turning the corner on the 
tobacco endemic. Further, the suggestion that air pollution is as bad as actual 
smoking is not only inaccurate but also potentially dangerous to public health.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/tobaccocontrol-2019-055181
PMCID: PMC7591797
PMID: 31611424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


716. Front Immunol. 2019 Sep 25;10:2291. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2019.02291.
eCollection  2019.

The Potential Protective Role of Vitamin D Supplementation on HIV-1 Infection.

Alvarez N(1), Aguilar-Jimenez W(1), Rugeles MT(1).

Author information:
(1)Grupo Inmunovirología, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Antioquia (UdeA), 
Medellín, Colombia.

HIV infection remains a global and public health issue with the incidence 
increasing in some countries. Despite the fact that combination antiretroviral 
therapy (cART) has decreased mortality and increased the life expectancy of 
HIV-infected individuals, non-AIDS conditions, mainly those associated with a 
persistent inflammatory state, have emerged as important causes of morbidity, 
and mortality despite effective antiviral therapy. One of the most common 
comorbidities in HIV-1 patients is Vitamin D (VitD) insufficiency, as VitD is a 
hormone that, in addition to its physiological role in mineral metabolism, has 
pleiotropic effects on immune regulation. Several reports have shown that VitD 
levels decrease during HIV disease progression and correlate with decreased 
survival rates, highlighting the importance of VitD supplementation during 
infection. An extensive review of 29 clinical studies of VitD supplementation in 
HIV-infected patients showed that regardless of cART, when VitD levels were 
increased to normal ranges, there was a decrease in inflammation, markers 
associated with bone turnover, and the risk of secondary hyperparathyroidism 
while the anti-bacterial response was increased. Additionally, in 3 of 7 
studies, VitD supplementation led to an increase in CD4+ T cell count, although 
its effect on viral load was inconclusive since most patients were on cART. 
Similarly, previous evidence from our laboratory has shown that VitD can reduce 
the infection of CD4+ T cells in vitro. The effect of VitD supplementation on 
other HIV-associated conditions, such as cardiovascular diseases, dyslipidemia 
or hypertension, warrants further exploration. Currently, the available evidence 
suggests that there is a potential role for VitD supplementation in people 
living with HIV-1, however, comprehensive studies are required to define an 
adequate supplementation protocol for these individuals.

Copyright © 2019 Alvarez, Aguilar-Jimenez and Rugeles.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2019.02291
PMCID: PMC6773828
PMID: 31611877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. J Food Biochem. 2019 Dec;43(12):e13075. doi: 10.1111/jfbc.13075. Epub 2019
Oct  14.

Saponin-rich extracts from Holothuria leucospilota mediate lifespan extension 
and stress resistance in Caenorhabditis elegans via daf-16.

Kitisin T(1), Suphamungmee W(1), Meemon K(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Science, Department of Anatomy, Mahidol University, Bangkok, 
Thailand.

Saponins are secondary metabolite compounds that can be found in sea cucumbers 
(Holothuroidea spp.). However, little is known about how saponin-rich extracts 
from Holothuria leucospilota can delay and prolong the lifespan of the whole 
organism. In this study, anti-aging effects of H. leucospilota extracts were 
studied on Caenorhabditis elegans. NMR analysis revealed that body wall 
n-butanol-extract of H. leucospilota (BW-BU) is saponin-rich. BW-BU extracts 
exhibited antioxidant activities by 2,2'-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl assay (EC50 
 = 10.23 ± 0.12 mg/ml) and 2,2'-azino-bis-3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulphonic acid 
assay (EC50  = 3.91 ± 0.04 mg/ml). BW-BU extracts increased lifespan of L4 and 
L1 C. elegans (5.92% and 15.76%, respectively), which also increased worm 
growth, stress resistance, and reduced biomarkers for aging. BW-BU extracts 
activated DAF-16 nuclear localization and upregulated daf-16 and DAF-16 target 
genes expression. Taken together, this study revealed the evidences on 
anti-aging activities of saponin-rich extracts from H. leucospilota, which can 
extend lifespan of C. elegans via daf-16. PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS: In recent 
years, age-associated chronic diseases have had a significant impact on quality 
of life. Many natural compounds exhibit anti-aging activities, especially in sea 
cucumber, H. leucospilota. Our results indicated that H. leucospilota is good 
for health. Extracts from H. leucospilota contain a bioactive compound that can 
be potentially used to promote longevity and disease prevention in aging.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/jfbc.13075
PMID: 31612532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Analyst. 2019 Nov 4;144(22):6736-6750. doi: 10.1039/c9an01731c.

Developing infrared spectroscopic detection for stratifying brain tumour 
patients: glioblastoma multiforme vs. lymphoma.

Cameron JM (1), Butler HJ , Smith BR , Hegarty MG , Jenkinson MD , Syed K , 
Brennan PM , Ashton K , Dawson T , Palmer DS , Baker MJ .

Author information:
(1)WestCHEM, Department of Pure and Applied Chemistry, Technology and Innovation 
Centre, University of Strathclyde, 99 George St, Glasgow, G1 1RD, UK. 
matthew.baker@strath.ac.uk matthew.baker@clinspecdx.com.

Over a third of brain tumour patients visit their general practitioner more than 
five times prior to diagnosis in the UK, leading to 62% of patients being 
diagnosed as emergency presentations. Unfortunately, symptoms are non-specific 
to brain tumours, and the majority of these patients complain of headaches on 
multiple occasions before being referred to a neurologist. As there are 
currently no methods in place for the early detection of brain cancer, the 
affected patients' average life expectancy is reduced by 20 years. These 
statistics indicate that the current pathway is ineffective, and there is a vast 
need for a rapid diagnostic test. Attenuated total reflection Fourier-transform 
infrared (ATR-FTIR) spectroscopy is sensitive to the hallmarks of cancer, as it 
analyses the full range of macromolecular classes. The combination of serum 
spectroscopy and advanced data analysis has previously been shown to rapidly and 
objectively distinguish brain tumour severity. Recently, a novel high-throughput 
ATR accessory has been developed, which could be cost-effective to the National 
Health Service in the UK, and valuable for clinical translation. In this study, 
765 blood serum samples have been collected from healthy controls and patients 
diagnosed with various types of brain cancer, contributing to one of the largest 
spectroscopic studies to date. Three robust machine learning techniques - random 
forest, partial least squares-discriminant analysis and support vector machine - 
have all provided promising results. The novel high-throughput technology has 
been validated by separating brain cancer and non-cancer with balanced 
accuracies of 90% which is comparable to the traditional fixed diamond crystal 
methodology. Furthermore, the differentiation of brain tumour type could be 
useful for neurologists, as some are difficult to distinguish through medical 
imaging alone. For example, the highly aggressive glioblastoma multiforme and 
primary cerebral lymphoma can appear similar on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
scans, thus are often misdiagnosed. Here, we report the ability of infrared 
spectroscopy to distinguish between glioblastoma and lymphoma patients, at a 
sensitivity and specificity of 90.1% and 86.3%, respectively. A reliable serum 
diagnostic test could avoid the need for surgery and speed up time to definitive 
chemotherapy and radiotherapy.

DOI: 10.1039/c9an01731c
PMID: 31612875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. J Med Econ. 2020 Feb;23(2):193-203. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2019.1681436. Epub
 2019 Nov 18.

Assessing the cost-effectiveness of a once-weekly GLP-1 analogue versus an 
SGLT-2 inhibitor in the Spanish setting: Once-weekly semaglutide versus 
empagliflozin.

Gorgojo-Martínez JJ(1), Malkin SJP(2), Martín V(3), Hallén N(4), Hunt B(2).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Endocrinology and Nutrition, Hospital Universitario Fundación 
Alcorcón, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Ossian Health Economics and Communications, Basel, Switzerland.
(3)Novo Nordisk Pharma SA, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Novo Nordisk A/S, Søborg, Denmark.

Aims: Controlling costs while maximizing healthcare gains is the predominant 
challenge for healthcare providers, and therefore cost-effectiveness analysis is 
playing an ever-increasing role in healthcare decision making. The aim of the 
present analysis was to assess the long-term cost-effectiveness of subcutaneous 
once-weekly semaglutide (0.5 mg and 1 mg) versus empagliflozin (10 mg and 25 mg) 
in the Spanish setting for the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) 
with inadequate glycemic control on oral anti-hyperglycemic medications.Material 
and methods: The IQVIA CORE Diabetes Model was used to project outcomes over 
patient lifetimes with once-weekly semaglutide versus empagliflozin, with 
treatment effects based on a network meta-analysis. The analysis captured 
treatment costs, costs of diabetes-related complications, and the impact of 
complications on quality of life, based on published sources. Outcomes were 
discounted at 3.0% per annum.Results: Once-weekly semaglutide 0.5 mg and 1 mg 
were associated with improvements in discounted quality-adjusted life expectancy 
of 0.12 and 0.15 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), respectively, versus 
empagliflozin 10 mg and improvements of 0.11 and 0.14 QALYs, respectively, 
versus empagliflozin 25 mg. Treatment costs were higher with once-weekly 
semaglutide compared with empagliflozin, but this was partially offset by cost 
savings due to avoidance of diabetes-related complications. Once-weekly 
semaglutide 0.5 mg and 1 mg were associated with incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios of EUR 2,285 and EUR 161 per QALY gained, respectively, versus 
empagliflozin 10 mg, and EUR 3,090 and EUR 625 per QALY gained, respectively, 
versus empagliflozin 25 mg.Conclusions: Based on a willingness-to-pay threshold 
of EUR 30,000 per QALY gained, once-weekly semaglutide 0.5 mg and 1 mg were 
projected to be cost-effective versus empagliflozin 10 mg and 25 mg for the 
treatment of patients with T2D with inadequate glycemic control on oral 
anti-hyperglycemic medications in the Spanish setting, irrespective of patients' 
BMI at baseline.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2019.1681436
PMID: 31613199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Int Health. 2019 Nov 13;11(6):417-421. doi: 10.1093/inthealth/ihz078.

Air pollution: the emergence of a major global health risk factor.

Boogaard H(1), Walker K(1), Cohen AJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Health Effects Institute, 75 Federal Street, Suite 1400, Boston, MA, 02110 
USA.
(2)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, 2301 5th Avenue, Seattle, WA, 
98121 USA.

Air pollution is now recognized by governments, international institutions and 
civil society as a major global public health risk factor. This is the result of 
the remarkable growth of scientific knowledge enabled by advances in 
epidemiology and exposure assessment. There is now a broad scientific consensus 
that exposure to air pollution increases mortality and morbidity from 
cardiovascular and respiratory disease and lung cancer and shortens life 
expectancy. Although air pollution has markedly declined in high-income 
countries, it was still responsible for some 4.9 million deaths in 2017, largely 
in low- and middle-income countries, where air pollution has increased over the 
past 25 y. As governments act to reduce air pollution there is a continuing need 
for research to strengthen the evidence on disease risk at very low and very 
high levels of air pollution, identify the air pollution sources most 
responsible for disease burden and assess the public health effectiveness of 
actions taken to improve air quality.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Royal 
Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/inthealth/ihz078
PMID: 31613318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. J Econ Entomol. 2020 Feb 8;113(1):88-97. doi: 10.1093/jee/toz272.

Biology, Predatory Potential, Life Table, and Field Evaluation of Propylea 
dissecta (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae), Against Lipaphis erysimi (Hemiptera: 
Aphididae) on Broccoli.

Boopathi T(1)(2), Singh SB(3), Dutta SK(1), Dayal V(1), Singh AR(1), Chowdhury 
S(1), Ramakrishna Y(4), Shakuntala I(1), Lalhruaipuii K(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Crop Protection, ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Mizoram 
Centre, Kolasib, Mizoram, India.
(2)Division of Plant Quarantine, ICAR-National Bureau of Plant Genetic 
Resources, Pusa Campus, New Delhi, India.
(3)Directorate of Instruction, Central Agricultural University, Imphal, Manipur, 
India.
(4)Division of Crop Production, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Hundung, Ukhrul District, 
Manipur, India.

Erratum in
    J Econ Entomol. 2020 Jun 6;113(3):1587.

Propylea dissecta (Mulsant) (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae) is one of the most 
promising ladybird beetle against many sucking pests. Predation rates, 
developmental biology, life table, and field assessment of this ladybird were 
examined against mustard aphid, Lipaphis erysimi (Kalt.) (Hemiptera: Aphididae), 
on broccoli. Data on the life history were collected at 23 ± 1°C and 70 ± 1% RH 
and were evaluated using the two-sex, age-stage life table. Results showed that 
the two-sex, age-stage life table-based net reproductive rate (R0) was 11.264 ± 
6.197 offspring. The adult females lived longer (33.8 ± 2.356 d) than the adult 
males (32.2 ± 0.841 d). The fourth instar consumed most of L. erysimi (113.97 ± 
5.76) compared to the other larval stages of the predator. Male (1,821) and 
female (2,673) consumed more aphids than larvae. The net consumption rate was 
741.78 ± 89.91 aphids. Other aphidophagous predators such as Coccinella 
septempunctata L., Micraspis discolor (F.), Coccinella transversalis (F.), and 
syrphid (Diptera: Syrphidae) were also noted in broccoli. Our research showed 
that inoculative release of 150 or 200 adults per 1,000 m2 for two times on 
broccoli achieved a significant decrease in aphids L. erysimi and Brevicoryne 
brassicae L. (Hemiptera: Aphididae) (>95%). The release rate of 150 adults per 
1,000 m2 for two times may, therefore, be recommended to manage the aphid 
population on broccoli.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/toz272
PMID: 31613322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Anatomy, Thorax, Mammary Gland.

Khan YS(1), Sajjad H(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Jul 24.

Author information:
(1)Vision (Alfarabi) College of Medicine, Riyadh, KSA
(2)RMU and Allied Hospitals

The mammary gland is a highly evolved and specialized organ present in pairs, 
one on each side of the anterior chest wall. The organ's primary function is to 
secrete milk. Though it is present in both sexes, it is well developed in 
females and rudimentary in males. It is also a vital accessory organ of the 
female reproductive system. Type: It is an apocrine type of gland. In these 
glands, the apical part of the cells and a part of the cytoplasm are lost in the 
secretion. Situation: The mammary gland is situated in the pectoral region in 
the superficial fascia. However, a part of it called the axillary tail pierces 
the deep fascia and lies in the axilla. Shape: The shape of the mammary gland is 
hemispherical in young adult females but becomes pendulous in the later stage of 
life. Weight: Though it varies from one person to another, the mammary gland 
usually weighs between 500 to 1000 grams each. Extent: The vertical extension of 
the mammary gland is from the second rib to the sixth rib. The horizontal 
extension is from the lateral sternal border to the mid-axillary line. A 
significant part of the organ lies in the superficial fascia. A portion of the 
breast called axillary tail (of Spence) pierces into the deep fascia and extends 
to the axilla up to the third rib level. Deep relations: Deep to the mammary 
gland tissue is a retro mammary space of loose areolar tissue, which gives free 
mobility to the mammary gland. Below it is the fascia (pectoral fascia), which 
covers the pectoralis muscle. Other muscles that lie partly underneath the 
mammary gland are the serratus anterior muscle and the external oblique muscle 
of the abdomen. The mammary gland is best studied by dividing into four 
quadrants by a vertical and a horizontal, imaginary line passing through the 
nipple. The four quadrants are upper lateral, upper medial, lower medial, and 
lower lateral quadrants.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 31613446

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Yusuf Khan declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Hussain Sajjad 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


723. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2019 Dec;20(18):2209-2221. doi: 
10.1080/14656566.2019.1674281. Epub 2019 Oct 15.

Deutetrabenazine for tardive dyskinesia and chorea associated with Huntington's 
disease: a review of clinical trial data.

Claassen DO(1), Philbin M(2), Carroll B(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.
(2)Teva Pharmaceuticals, Frazer, Pennsylvania, USA.

Introduction: Huntington's disease (HD)-associated chorea and tardive dyskinesia 
(TD) are hyperkinetic movement disorders that can have deleterious effects on 
patients' quality of life (QoL). Deutetrabenazine, a vesicular monoamine 
transporter 2 (VMAT2) inhibitor, was approved by the US Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) for the treatment of HD-associated chorea and TD. It is 
structurally similar to tetrabenazine, an FDA-approved compound for treatment of 
chorea that is widely used off-label for treatment of TD, but has deuterium 
modifications that improve its pharmacokinetic profile.Areas covered: Herein, 
the authors cover the key clinical trials with deutetrabenazine in patients with 
HD-associated chorea (First-HD and ARC-HD) and in patients with TD (ARM-TD, 
AIM-TD, and RIM-TD).Expert opinion: Deutetrabenazine demonstrates consistent 
efficacy across patient types regardless of underlying psychiatric illness, or 
through use of dopamine-receptor antagonists (DRAs), which are the primary cause 
of TD. The safety profile of deutetrabenazine in clinical trials is similar to 
that of placebo. Long-term extension studies in both HD-associated chorea and TD 
show consistent efficacy and safety. Deutetrabenazine will likely be an integral 
part of the treatment strategy for HD-associated chorea and TD. Meanwhile, its 
potential to treat other hyperkinetic movement disorders is still under 
investigation.

DOI: 10.1080/14656566.2019.1674281
PMID: 31613641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Menopause. 2020 Jan;27(1):26-32. doi: 10.1097/GME.0000000000001422.

Exploring factors that impact uptake of risk-reducing bilateral 
salpingo-oophorectomy (RRBSO) in high-risk women.

Hickey M(1), Rio I(2), Trainer A(3), Marino JL(4), Wrede CD(5), Peate M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.
(2)General Practice Liaison Unit, The Royal Women's Hospital and North Western 
Melbourne Primary Health Network, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Parkville Familial Cancer Clinic, Peter MacCallum and Royal Melbourne 
Hospitals, Department of Medicine, University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Royal Womens Hospital, University 
of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(5)The Royal Women's Hospital, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, 
University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: Only risk-reducing bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (RRBSO) has been 
shown to reduce ovarian cancer deaths in high-risk women. Uptake of RRBSO is, 
however, suboptimal and reasons are not well defined. More information is needed 
about the barriers to RRBSO and patient needs for information and care.
METHODS: Cross-sectional study including the Perception of Cancer Risk Scale, 
factors affecting decision-making about RRBSO, and unmet information needs were 
measured using a purpose-designed questionnaire.
RESULTS: Of the 193 high-risk women aged 30 to 50 approached, 60 (31%) agreed to 
participate. Respondents were either considering or had recently undergone 
premenopausal RRBSO. Most (49/60) had no personal history of cancer; 11/60 had 
previous breast cancer. Overall, responses did not differ between pre- and 
post-RRBSO participants. The main barriers to RRBSO were surgical menopause and 
loss of fertility. Other concerns included the impact on sexual function and 
bone health. Reduction in ovarian cancer risk and prolonged life expectancy were 
the main drivers for RRBSO. Participants understood that RRBSO reduced cancer 
risk, although most substantially overestimated their personal ovarian cancer 
risk. High-risk women wanted more information about how to manage the short- and 
long-term consequences of surgical menopause.
CONCLUSIONS: Concerns about surgical menopause and loss of fertility are 
barriers to RRBSO for high-risk women despite understanding the benefits of 
reduced cancer risk. There is an unmet need for more information about 
effectively managing the noncancer consequences of RRBSO in premenopausal women. 
: Video Summary:http://links.lww.com/MENO/A478.

DOI: 10.1097/GME.0000000000001422
PMID: 31613831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Ultrasound Obstet Gynecol. 2020 Nov;56(5):705-716. doi: 10.1002/uog.21895.

Impact of maternal obesity on fetal cardiac screening: which follow-up strategy 
is cost-effective?

Bak GS(1), Shaffer BL(2), Madriago E(3), Allen A(2), Kelly B(3), Caughey AB(2), 
Pereira L(2).

Author information:
(1)Fetal Medicine Unit, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Odense 
University Hospital, Odense, Denmark.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine, 
Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR, USA.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Cardiology, Oregon Health & 
Science University, Portland, OR, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To perform a cost-effectiveness analysis of different follow-up 
strategies for non-obese and obese women who had incomplete fetal cardiac 
screening for major congenital heart disease (CHD).
METHODS: Three decision-analytic models, one each for non-obese, obese and 
Class-III-obese women, were developed to compare five follow-up strategies for 
initial suboptimal fetal cardiac screening. The five strategies were: (1) no 
follow-up ultrasound (US) examination but direct referral to fetal 
echocardiography (FE); (2) one follow-up US, then FE if fetal cardiac views were 
still suboptimal; (3) up to two follow-up US, then FE if fetal cardiac views 
were still suboptimal; (4) one follow-up US and no FE; and (5) up to two 
follow-up US and no FE. The models were designed to identify fetuses with major 
CHD in a theoretical cohort of 4 000 000 births in the USA. Outcomes related to 
neonatal mortality and neurodevelopmental disability were evaluated. A 
cost-effectiveness willingness-to-pay threshold was set at US$100 000 per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY). Base-case and sensitivity analysis and 
Monte-Carlo simulation were performed.
RESULTS: In our base-case models for all body mass index (BMI) groups, no 
follow-up US, but direct referral to FE led to the best outcomes, detecting 7%, 
25% and 82% more fetuses with CHD in non-obese, obese and Class-III-obese women, 
respectively, compared with the baseline strategy of one follow-up US and no FE. 
However, no follow-up US, but direct referral to FE was above the 
US$100 000/QALY threshold and therefore not cost-effective. The cost-effective 
strategy for all BMI groups was one follow-up US and no FE. Both up to two 
follow-up US with no FE and up to two follow-up US with FE were dominated (being 
more costly and less effective), while one follow-up US with FE was over the 
cost-effectiveness threshold. One follow-up US and no FE was the optimal 
strategy in 97%, 93% and 86% of trials in Monte-Carlo simulation for non-obese, 
obese and Class-III-obese models, respectively.
CONCLUSION: For both non-obese and obese women with incomplete fetal cardiac 
screening, the optimal CHD follow-up screening strategy is no further US and 
immediate referral to FE; however, this strategy is not cost-effective. 
Considering costs, one follow-up US and no FE is the preferred strategy. For 
both obese and non-obese women, Monte-Carlo simulations showed clearly that one 
follow-up US and no FE was the optimal strategy. Both non-obese and obese women 
with initial incomplete cardiac screening examination should therefore be 
offered one follow-up US. Copyright © 2019 ISUOG. Published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd.

Copyright © 2019 ISUOG. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/uog.21895
PMID: 31614030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2019 Oct 11;16(20):3839. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph16203839.

Health Care Financing Systems and Their Effectiveness: An Empirical Study of 
OECD Countries.

Ivanková V(1), Kotulič R(2), Gonos J(3), Rigelský M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics and Economy, Faculty of Management, University of 
Prešov in Prešov, Konštantínova 16, 080 01 Prešov, Slovakia. 
viera.ivankova@smail.unipo.sk.
(2)Department of Economics and Economy, Faculty of Management, University of 
Prešov in Prešov, Konštantínova 16, 080 01 Prešov, Slovakia. rkotulic@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Economics and Economy, Faculty of Management, University of 
Prešov in Prešov, Konštantínova 16, 080 01 Prešov, Slovakia. 
jaroslav.gonos@unipo.sk.
(4)Department of Marketing and International Trade, Faculty of Management, 
University of Prešov in Prešov, Konštantínova 16, 080 01 Prešov, Slovakia. 
martin.rigelsky@smail.unipo.sk.

Background: The primary aim of the research in the present study was to 
determine the effectiveness of health care in classifying health care financing 
systems from a sample of OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development) countries (2012-2017). This objective was achieved through several 
stages of analysis, which aimed to assess the relations between and relation 
diversity in selected variables, determining the effectiveness of health care 
and the health expenditure of health care financing systems. The greatest 
emphasis was placed on the differences between health care financing systems 
that were due to the impact of health expenditure on selected health outputs, 
such as life expectancy at birth, perceived health status, the health care 
index, deaths from acute myocardial infarction and diabetes mellitus. Methods: 
Methods such as descriptive analysis, effect analysis (η2), binomial logistic 
regression analysis, linear regression analysis, continuity analysis (ρ) and 
correspondence analysis, were used to meet the above objectives. Results: Based 
on several stages of statistical processing, it was found that there are 
deviations in several of the relations between different health care funding 
systems in terms of their predisposition to certain areas of health outcomes. 
Thus, where one system proves ineffective (or its effectiveness is 
questionable), another system (or systems) appears to be effective. From a 
correspondence analysis that compared the funding system and other outputs 
(converted to quartiles), it was found that a national health system, covering 
the country as a whole, and multiple insurance funds or companies would be more 
effective systems. Conclusions: Based on the findings, it was concluded that, in 
analyzing issues related to health care and its effectiveness, it is appropriate 
to take into account the funding system (at least to verify the significance of 
how research premises affect the systems); otherwise, the results may be 
distorted.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph16203839
PMCID: PMC6843892
PMID: 31614533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


727. Nutrients. 2019 Oct 14;11(10):2452. doi: 10.3390/nu11102452.

A Review of the Potential Benefits of Increasing Vitamin D Status in Mongolian 
Adults through Food Fortification and Vitamin D Supplementation.

Grant WB(1), Boucher BJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Director, Sunlight, Nutrition, and Health Research Center, P.O. Box 641603, 
San Francisco, CA 94164-1603, USA. wbgrant@infionline.net.
(2)The Blizard Institute, Barts & The London School of Medicine & Dentistry, 
Queen Mary University of London, 4 Newark Street, London E12AT, UK. 
bboucher@doctors.org.uk.

Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) concentrations are low in Mongolia, 
averaging 22 ng/mL in summer and only 8 ng/mL in winter. Mongolians have high 
incidence and/or prevalence of several diseases linked to low 25(OH)D 
concentrations, including ischemic heart disease, malignant neoplasms, cirrhosis 
of the liver, ischemic stroke, lower respiratory tract infections, preterm birth 
complications, and diabetes mellitus. Fortifying regularly consumed foods such 
as flour, milk, and edible oils with vitamin D3 could raise 25(OH)D 
concentrations by about 10 ng/mL. However, to achieve 25(OH)D concentrations of 
30-40 ng/mL in adults, vitamin D intakes of 1000 to 4000 IU/day would be 
required, making personal supplement use necessary. On the basis of prospective 
observational studies and clinical trials of disease incidence or known 
mortality rates and adverse pregnancy and birth outcomes, raising mean serum 
25(OH)D concentrations to 40 ng/mL would likely reduce incidence and mortality 
rates for those and other diseases, reduce the rate of adverse pregnancy and 
birth outcomes, and increase mean life expectancy by one year or more.

DOI: 10.3390/nu11102452
PMCID: PMC6835745
PMID: 31615079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


728. CMAJ. 2019 Oct 15;191(41):E1140. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.73298.

Cost-effectiveness analysis should be mandatory in clinical-effectiveness 
research.

Vijayaraghavan BKT(1), Willaert X(2), Cuthbertson BH(3).

Author information:
(1)Consultant, Department of Critical Care Medicine, Apollo Hospitals; Chennai 
Critical Care Consultants Group, Chennai, India.
(2)Consultant, Department of Critical Care Medicine, ZOL, Genk, Belgium.
(3)Professor of Critical Care Medicine, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ont.

Comment on
    CMAJ. 2019 Jul 2;191(26):E733-E736.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.73298
PMCID: PMC6791790
PMID: 31615824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


729. Patient Prefer Adherence. 2019 Aug 14;13:1363-1373. doi:
10.2147/PPA.S204246.  eCollection 2019.

Comparing quality of life and treatment satisfaction between patients on 
warfarin and direct oral anticoagulants: a cross-sectional study.

Ng DL(1), Gan GG(2), Chai CS(1), Chee KH(2), Tan KL(3), Tan SB(2), Bee PC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Science, University 
Malaysia Sarawak, Kota Samarahan, Sarawak, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University Science Malaysia, 
Penang, Malaysia.

INTRODUCTION AND AIM: Patient quality of life (QOL) while on long-term oral 
anticoagulant therapy has been receiving greater attention in recent years due 
to the increase in life expectancy brought about by advances in medical care. 
This study aimed to compare the QOL, treatment satisfaction, hospitalization and 
bleeding rate in patients on long-term warfarin versus direct oral 
anticoagulants (DOAC).
METHODS: This was a cross-sectional study of patients with non-valvular atrial 
fibrillation (NVAF) or venous thromboembolism (VTE) on long-term anticoagulant 
therapy attending the cardiology clinic and anticoagulation clinic of the 
University Malaya Medical Centre from July 1, 2016, to June 30, 2018. Patient 
QOL was assessed by using the Short Form 12 Health Survey (SF12), while 
treatment satisfaction was assessed by using the Perception of Anticoagulation 
Treatment Questionnaire 2 (PACT-Q2).
RESULTS: A total of 208 patients were recruited; 52.4% received warfarin and 
47.6% received DOAC. There was no significant difference in QOL between warfarin 
and DOAC based on SF12 (physical QOL, P=0.083; mental QOL, P=0.665). 
Nevertheless, patients in the DOAC group were significantly more satisfied with 
their treatment compared to the warfarin group based on PACT-Q2 (P=0.004). The 
hospitalisation rate was significantly higher in the warfarin group than the 
DOAC group (15.6% versus 3.0%, P=0.002). Clinically relevant minor bleeds and 
severe bleeding events were non-significantly higher in the warfarin group than 
the DOAC group (66.7% versus 40.0%, P=0.069).
CONCLUSION: Compared to warfarin, treatment of NVAF and VTE with DOAC showed 
comparable QOL, higher treatment satisfaction, lesser hospitalization, and a 
non-significant trend toward fewer bleeding episodes.

© 2019 Ng et al.

DOI: 10.2147/PPA.S204246
PMCID: PMC6698611
PMID: 31616136

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


730. Ann Ig. 2019 Nov-Dec;31(6):614-625. doi: 10.7416/ai.2019.2321.

Promoting sport and physical activity in Italy: a cost-effectiveness analysis of 
seven innovative public health policies.

Goryakin Y(1), Aldea A(1), Lerouge A(1), Romano Spica V(2), Nante N(3), Vuik 
S(1), Devaux M(1), Cecchini M(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Division, Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development 
(OECD), Paris, France.
(2)Department of Movement, Human and Health Sciences, University of Rome "Foro 
Italico", Rome, Italy.
(3)Post Graduate School of Public Health, University of Siena, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Inactive lifestyles are a key risk factor underpinning the 
development of many chronic diseases, yet more than half of the Italian 
population does not meet WHO thresholds for at least moderate physical activity. 
This study aims to make the economic case to upscale investments in policy 
actions to promote exercise and physical activity.
STUDY DESIGN: Modelling-based cost-effectiveness analysis in Italy.
METHODS: The study assesses the impact on health and healthcare expenditure of 
seven public health policies to promote exercise and physical activity against a 
business as usual scenario. Assessed policies include: promotion of active 
transport, workplace sedentarily interventions, investments in sports and 
recreation, mass media campaigns, prescription of physical activity in primary 
care, school-based interventions and mobile apps.
RESULTS: Public policies to promote exercise have the potential to improve 
population health and produce savings in healthcare expenditure. Assessed 
policies can avoid hundreds of cases of cardiovascular diseases and diabetes per 
year and tens of cases of cancer resulting in gains in DALYs in the order of 
thousands per year. In the medium-term, the vast majority of policies show 
excellent cost-effectiveness ratio, below internationally recognized thresholds.
CONCLUSIONS: Investing in policies to promote active lifestyles is a good 
investment for Italy.

DOI: 10.7416/ai.2019.2321
PMID: 31616905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Inflammopharmacology. 2020 Jun;28(3):737-748. doi:
10.1007/s10787-019-00652-y.  Epub 2019 Oct 15.

Neuroprotective potential of Myrciaria plinioides D. Legrand extract in an in 
vitro human neuroblastoma model.

Marmitt DJ(1), Alves C(2), Silva J(2), Pinteus S(2), Schneider T(1), Christ 
Vianna Santos R(3), de Freitas EM(4), Pedrosa R(2), Laufer S(5), Goettert MI(6).

Author information:
(1)Cell Culture Laboratory, Post-graduation Program in Biotechnology, University 
of Vale do Taquari, Lajeado, RS, Brazil.
(2)MARE - Marine and Environmental Sciences Centre, ESTM, Instituto Politécnico 
de Leiria, 2520-641, Peniche, Portugal.
(3)Microbiology and Parasitology Department, Federal University of Santa Maria, 
Santa Maria, RS, Brazil.
(4)Post-graduation Program in Biotechnology, University of Vale do Taquari - 
Univates, Lajeado, RS, Brazil.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical and Medicinal Chemistry, Institute of Pharmacy, 
University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(6)Cell Culture Laboratory, Post-graduation Program in Biotechnology, University 
of Vale do Taquari, Lajeado, RS, Brazil. marcia.goettert@univates.br.

Neurodegenerative diseases are multifactorial debilitating disorders of the 
nervous system affecting approximately 30 million individuals worldwide. 
Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress have also been implicated in 
causing neurodegeneration. As life expectancy is increasing, neurodegenerative 
disorders are becoming a major social issue. None of the drugs currently 
available for treatment are capable of healing the patient. This means that new 
molecules should be explored. Plants have been used for treatment of countless 
medical conditions and extensive research is being carried out on species of the 
Myrtaceae family, widely used in traditional medicine. To date, Myrciaria 
plinioides D. Legrand has not been studied for its therapeutic use. To evaluate 
the neuroprotective effect of aqueous and ethanol extracts of this plant, we 
investigated the protective effects in human neuroblastoma cells (SH-SY5Y). 
High-performance liquid chromatography fingerprinting of extracts revealed the 
presence of phenolic compounds and flavonoids. Extracts showed antioxidant 
activity in the ORAC, DPPH, FRAP and GAE methods. Ethanol extract presented a 
strong inhibitory activity toward p38 and JNK3 MAPKs and AChE activity and also 
toward TNF-α release in human whole blood. None of the extracts significantly 
affected cell viability; the ethanol extract, however, reversed 6-OHDA-induced 
toxicity. Particularly the ethanol extract suggests neuroprotective effects by 
preventing membrane depolarization and by significantly decreasing H2O2 
production and caspase-3 activity. The present results indicate that the ethanol 
extract protects SH-SY5Y cells against oxidative damage and apoptosis, as shown 
by the antioxidative activity of the extract as well as by the inhibition of 
important proteins such as caspase-3, p38 and JNK3 and the cytokine TNF-α.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-019-00652-y
PMID: 31617123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2020 Jan;35(1):12-28. doi: 10.1002/gps.5219. Epub
2019  Nov 15.

Diagnostic and interventional implications of telemedicine in Alzheimer's 
disease and mild cognitive impairment: A literature review.

Costanzo MC(1), Arcidiacono C(1), Rodolico A(1), Panebianco M(2), Aguglia E(1), 
Signorelli MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Institute of Psychiatry, 
University of Catania, Catania, Italy.
(2)Department of Molecular and Clinical Pharmacology, Institute of Translational 
Medicine, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Worldwide, life expectancy, and aging-related disorders as mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer disease (AD) are increasing, having a 
rising impact on patients' quality of life and caregivers' distress. 
Telemedicine offers many possibilities, such as remote diagnosing and monitoring 
of patients.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study is to provide a narrative synthesis of the 
literature about the implementation of telemedicine for diagnosis, treatment, 
and follow-up of patients with AD and MCI and their caregivers.
METHODS: A systematic literature review was conducted on MEDLINE, EMBASE, and 
the Cochrane Library databases up to September 2018. MCI or AD diagnoses were 
the conditions of interest. We excluded other dementias.
RESULTS: Fifty-six articles met inclusion criteria. We identified two main 
categories: diagnosis group (DG) and follow-up/interventional group (FIG). 
Fifteen articles suggested how to make a remote or earlier diagnosis: four were 
case-control accuracy studies, nine were paired comparative accuracy studies, 
and two were prospective single-arm accuracy studies. Among these, four focused 
on MCI, six on AD, and five on both. Forty one focused on supporting patients 
during the stages of the disease (28 articles), patient's caregivers (nine 
articles), or both (four articles).
CONCLUSIONS: The rising use of telemedicine could actively improve AD and MCI 
patients' lives, reduce caregivers' burden, and facilitate an early diagnosis if 
patients live in remote places. However, as some studies report, it is relevant 
to take into account the emotional impact of telemedicine on patients and not 
only on the effectiveness.

© 2019 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.5219
PMID: 31617247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Geriatr Psychol Neuropsychiatr Vieil. 2019 Dec 1;17(4):357-368. doi: 
10.1684/pnv.2019.0820.

[Towards a personalized support necessary but complex to implement. The exemple 
of oncogeriatric care].

[Article in French]

Suissa V(1), Guérin S(2), Warusfel A(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de psychopathologie et neuropsychologie (EA2027), Université 
Paris VIII, France.
(2)Inseec Business School, directeur de MSc « Directeur des établissements de 
santé », Inseec Paris, France.
(3)Accueil cancer de la ville de Paris (ACVP), Paris, France.

The considerable developments in the field of oncology have led to increased 
life expectancy and are contributing to conceptual changes in the care and 
management of patients. As such, the introduction of supportive care represents 
the archetype of a new "person-centred" approach and its characteristic needs. 
While the chronicity of the disease reflects advances in treatment, it also 
raises questions about a particularly long, cumbersome and painful treatment 
process for an aging and vulnerable population. In this perspective, the 
emergence of oncogeriatrics reflects the desire to personalize support and to 
take greater account of the specific needs of the elderly population. However, 
oncogeriatrics, a relatively new discipline, remains unstructured in the field. 
The dynamics of humanizing care inevitably come up against complex clinical 
situations, requiring reflection on its interest and limitations in its 
application. Thus, the purpose of this article is to propose an inventory of 
oncogeriatric care by raising a complex articulation between "theory of care" 
and "its implementation in the field".

DOI: 10.1684/pnv.2019.0820
PMID: 31617497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Rev Assoc Med Bras (1992). 2019 Oct 10;65(9):1216-1222. doi: 
10.1590/1806-9282.65.9.1216. eCollection 2019.

Treatment of iron overload syndrome: a general review.

Lima TG(1)(2)(3), Benevides FLN(3)(4), Esmeraldo Filho FL(1), Farias IS(1), 
Dourado DXC(1), Fontenele EGP(2)(5)(6), Moraes MEA(6)(7), Quidute ARP(6)(7).

Author information:
(1). Universidade de Fortaleza - Unifor, Fortaleza, CE, Brasil.
(2). Hospital Universitário Walter Cantídio - UFC, Fortaleza, CE, Brasil.
(3). Hospital Geral César Cals de Oliveira - HGCCO, Fortaleza, CE, Brasil.
(4). Centro de Hematologia e Hemoterapia do Ceará - Hemoce, Fortaleza, CE, 
Brasil.
(5). Departamento de Medicina Clínica - Faculdade de Medicina - UFC, Fortaleza, 
CE, Brasil.
(6). Núcleo de Produção e Desenvolvimento de Medicamentos - NPDM - UFC, 
Fortaleza, CE, Brasil.
(7). Departamento de Fisiologia e Farmacologia- Faculdade de Medicina - UFC, 
Fortaleza, CE, Brasil.

INTRODUCTION: Iron overload is a broad syndrome with a large spectrum of 
causative etiologies that lead to iron deposition. When iron exceeds defenses, 
it causes oxidative damage and tissular disfunction. Treatment may prevent organ 
dysfunction, leading to greater life expectancy.
METHODS: Literature from the last five years was reviewed through the use of the 
PubMed database in search of treatment strategies.
DISCUSSION: Different pharmacological and non-pharmacological strategies are 
available for the treatment of iron overload and must be used according to 
etiology and patient compliance. Therapeutic phlebotomy is the basis for the 
treatment of hereditary hemochromatosis. Transfusional overload patients and 
those who cannot tolerate phlebotomy need iron chelators.
CONCLUSION: Advances in the understanding of iron overload have lead to great 
advances in therapies and new pharmacological targets. Research has lead to 
better compliance with the use of oral chelators and less toxic drugs.

DOI: 10.1590/1806-9282.65.9.1216
PMID: 31618341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Materials (Basel). 2019 Oct 15;12(20):3353. doi: 10.3390/ma12203353.

New Microbe Killers: Self-Assembled Silver(I) Coordination Polymers Driven by a 
Cagelike Aminophosphine.

Jaros SW(1), Haukka M(2), Florek M(3), Guedes da Silva MFC(4), Pombeiro AJL(5), 
Kirillov AM(6)(7), Smoleński P(8).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Chemistry, University of Wrocław, ul. F. Joliot-Curie 14, 50-383 
Wrocław, Poland. sabina.jaros@chem.uni.wroc.pl.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Jyväskulä, FIN-40014 Jyväskulä, 
Finland. matti.o.haukka@jyu.fi.
(3)Department of Pathology, Wrocław University of Environmental and Life 
Sciences, ul. Norwida 31, 50-375 Wrocław, Poland. magdalena.florek@upwr.edu.pl.
(4)Centro de Química Estrutural, Instituto Superior Técnico, Universidade de 
Lisboa, Av. Rovisco Pais, 1049-001 Lisbon, Portugal. 
fatima.guedes@tecnico.ulisboa.pt.
(5)Centro de Química Estrutural, Instituto Superior Técnico, Universidade de 
Lisboa, Av. Rovisco Pais, 1049-001 Lisbon, Portugal. 
pombeiro@tecnico.ulisboa.pt.
(6)Centro de Química Estrutural, Instituto Superior Técnico, Universidade de 
Lisboa, Av. Rovisco Pais, 1049-001 Lisbon, Portugal. 
kirillov@tecnico.ulisboa.pt.
(7)Research Institute of Chemistry, Peoples' Friendship University of Russia 
(RUDN University), 6 Miklukho-Maklaya st., 117198 Moscow, Russia. 
kirillov@tecnico.ulisboa.pt.
(8)Faculty of Chemistry, University of Wrocław, ul. F. Joliot-Curie 14, 50-383 
Wrocław, Poland. piotr.smolenski@chem.uni.wroc.pl.

New Ag(I) coordination polymers, formulated as [Ag(µ-PTAH)(NO3)2]n (1) and 
[Ag(µ-PTA)(NO2)]n (2), were self-assembled as light- and air-stable 
microcrystalline solids and fully characterized by NMR and IR spectroscopy, 
electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS(±), elemental analysis, powder 
(PXRD) and single-crystal X-ray diffraction. Their crystal structures reveal 
resembling 1D metal-ligand chains that are driven by the 
1,3,5-triaza-7-phospaadamantane (PTA) linkers and supported by terminal nitrate 
or nitrite ligands; these chains were classified within a 2C1 topological type. 
Additionally, the structure of 1 features a 1D→2D network extension through 
intermolecular hydrogen bonds, forming a two-dimensional hydrogen-bonded network 
with fes topology. Furthermore, both products 1 and 2 exhibit remarkable 
antimicrobial activity against different human pathogen bacteria (S. aureus, E. 
coli, and P. aeruginosa) and yeast (C. albicans), which is significantly 
superior to the activity of silver(I) nitrate as a reference topical 
antimicrobial.

DOI: 10.3390/ma12203353
PMCID: PMC6829320
PMID: 31618829

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


736. BMJ Open. 2019 Oct 16;9(10):e033320. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2019-033320.

Multimorbidity of chronic non-communicable diseases and its models of care in 
low- and middle-income countries: a scoping review protocol.

Eyowas FA(1), Schneider M(2), Yirdaw BA(2), Getahun FA(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, School of Public Health, College of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, Bahir Dar University, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia fantuabebe@gmail.com.
(2)Alan J Flisher Centre for Public Mental Health, Department of Psychiatry and 
Mental Health, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa.
(3)Department of Public Health, School of Public Health, College of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, Bahir Dar University, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia.
(4)Department of Public Health, School of Medicine, Addis Ababa University 
College of Health Sciences, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

INTRODUCTION: Multimorbidity is the coexistence of two or more chronic 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in a given individual. Multimorbidity is 
increasing in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) and challenging health 
systems. Individuals with multimorbidity are facing the risk of premature 
mortality, lower quality of life and greater use of healthcare services. 
However, despite the huge challenge multimorbidity brings in LMICs, gaps remain 
in mapping and synthesising the available knowledge on the issue. The focus of 
this scoping review will be to synthesise the extent, range and nature of 
studies on the epidemiology and models of multimorbidity care in LMICs.
METHODS: PubMed (MEDLINE) will be the main database to be searched. For articles 
that are not indexed in the PubMed, Scopus, PsycINFO and Cochrane databases will 
be searched. Grey literature databases will also be explored. There will be no 
restrictions on study setting or year of publication. Articles will be searched 
using key terms, including comorbidity, co-morbidity, multimorbidity, multiple 
chronic conditions and model of care. Relevant articles will be screened by two 
independent reviewers and data will be charted accordingly. The result of this 
scoping review will be presented using the Preferred Reporting Items for 
Systematic Review and Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) 
checklist and reporting guideline.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This scoping review does not require ethical approval. 
Findings will be published in peer-reviewed journal and presented at scientific 
conferences.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2019. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2019-033320
PMCID: PMC6797258
PMID: 31619434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


737. Front Pharmacol. 2019 Sep 18;10:1011. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2019.01011.
eCollection  2019.

Src Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors: New Perspectives on Their Immune, Antiviral, and 
Senotherapeutic Potential.

Rivera-Torres J(1), San José E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Biotechnology, Nutrition, Optics and Optometry, 
Faculty of Biomedical and Health Sciences, Universidad Europea de Madrid. 
Madrid, Spain.

Deregulated activity of the Src tyrosine kinases leads to malignant 
transformation. Since the FDA approval of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor, 
imatinib, in 2001 for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), the 
number of these inhibitors together with Src tyrosine kinase inhibitors (STKIs) 
has increased notably due to their beneficial effects. Dasatinib, a 
second-generation STKI inhibitor widely studied, proved high efficiency in CML 
patients resistant to imatinib. In the last decade STKIs have also been 
implicated and showed therapeutic potential for the treatment of diverse 
