(4)The University of Texas at Austin, Steve Hicks School of Social Work, USA. 
Electronic address: nchoi@austin.utexas.edu.

OBJECTIVES: This study examined (1) potential differences in life expectancy 
when suicide as a cause of death was discounted and (2) suicide's contributions 
to changes in life expectancy by age group and sex.
METHODS: Data were from the 2011 and 2015 National Violent Death Reporting 
System on all suicide decedents aged 10 years or older in 17 US states. Life 
tables were constructed based on the total population and all-cause mortality 
data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Differences in life 
expectancy were calculated using Arriaga's decomposition method.
RESULTS: The numbers of suicide deaths in both 2011 and 2015 were 3-4 times 
higher among males than females in all age groups. The highest impact for both 
males and females was in the 55-64 age group, with changes in life expectancy of 
1.64 years in 2011 and 1.60 years in 2015 for men, and 1.30 years in 2011 and 
1.27 years in 2015 for women. Between 2011 and 2015, the percent change in 
suicide mortality rates for all age groups was 7.44% in males and 15.72% in 
females. However, the groups that negatively impacted changes in life expectancy 
due to significant increases in suicide mortality were males aged 25-34 (22.80%) 
and 55-64 (15.45%) and females aged 15-19 (34.74%) and 55-64 (23.15%). 
Eliminating suicide as a cause of death would have increased life expectancy at 
birth by 1.92 years for males and 1.36 years for females from 2011 to 2015.
CONCLUSIONS: This study updates information on suicide and adds to calls for 
more effective suicide prevention efforts, especially for older adolescent 
girls, young men, and middle-aged men and women.

Copyright © 2019 The Royal Society for Public Health. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2019.09.024
PMID: 31733510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Med Hypotheses. 2020 Feb;135:109447. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2019.109447. Epub
2019  Nov 2.

Does photoperiodism involve a seasonal and non-pathological Warburg effect?

Raitiere MN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Providence-St Vincent Medical Center, 9205 SW 
Barnes Rd, Portland, OR 97225, USA. Electronic address: 
martinrai@qwestoffice.net.

The precise means whereby mammals recognize and respond to changing day length 
so as to adjust their physiology to the seasons (photoperiodism) remains 
enigmatic. We present a new hypothesis according to which aerobic glycolysis 
(AG) within selected astrocytic syncytia plays a central role in photoperiodism. 
We focus on the response of the mammal breeding in longer days (LD) to the 
shorter days (SD) of autumn. It is posited that AG in the brain of the SD 
organism is activated within a specified circuitry and temporal window. The 
circuitry involves regions targeted by the medullary norepinephrine (NE) system 
including but not limited to the anterior bed nucleus of the stria terminalis; 
the temporal window in question is defined by the autumnal extension of darkness 
into a segment of the organism's circadian activity cycle that was illuminated 
on the previous day. Lactate generated from glucose during SD serves primarily 
as a signaling entity as opposed to a fuel, instructing astrocytes, for example, 
gradually to replace the LD genome with one specific to SD. The requirement to 
provision glucose to the brain for AG through SD accounts for the frequent 
findings of mild autumnal hyperglycemia and elevated carbohydrate appetite 
across many different mammalian species including human beings. So long as the 
sidereal environment enveloping life on earth featured its extraordinarily 
predictable pattern of photoperiodic change, the dangers of exposing the 
organism to augmented glucose and lactate within a strictly delimited window 
were easily outweighed by the benefits of a precision mechanism ensuring the 
alignment of the animal's reproductive cycle with the seasonal one. With "light 
pollution," that delicate balance may now be at risk.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2019.109447
PMID: 31733532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The author 
declares that he has no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


150. J Clin Lipidol. 2019 Nov-Dec;13(6):887-893. doi: 10.1016/j.jacl.2019.09.009.
 Epub 2019 Sep 23.

Autosomal recessive hypercholesterolemia: Case report.

Petrulioniene Z(1), Gargalskaite U(2), Mikstiene V(3), Norvilas R(4), 
Skiauteryte E(5), Utkus A(6).

Author information:
(1)Vilnius University Faculty of Medicine, Vilnius, Lithuania; Clinic for 
Cardiovascular Disease, Center of Cardiology and Angiology, Vilnius, Lithuania.
(2)Vilnius University Faculty of Medicine, Vilnius, Lithuania; Clinic for 
Cardiovascular Disease, Center of Cardiology and Angiology, Vilnius, Lithuania. 
Electronic address: urte.gargalskaite@gmail.com.
(3)Clinic for Cardiovascular Disease, Center of Cardiology and Angiology, 
Vilnius, Lithuania; Faculty of Medicine, Department of Human and Medical 
Genetics, Vilnius University, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Vilnius, 
Lithuania.
(4)Clinic for Cardiovascular Disease, Center of Cardiology and Angiology, 
Vilnius, Lithuania; Faculty of Medicine, Department of Human and Medical 
Genetics, Vilnius University, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Vilnius, 
Lithuania; Department of Experimental, Preventive, and Clinical Medicine, State 
Research Institute, Center for Innovative Medicine, Vilnius, Lithuania.
(5)Clinic for Cardiovascular Disease, Center of Cardiology and Angiology, 
Vilnius, Lithuania.
(6)Department of Experimental, Preventive, and Clinical Medicine, State Research 
Institute, Center for Innovative Medicine, Vilnius, Lithuania.

INTRODUCTION: Autosomal recessive hypercholesterolemia (ARH; OMIM #603813) is a 
very rare monogenic disorder affecting less than 1 in 1000,000 people and is 
characterized by very high levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol 
(LDL-C), leading to aggressive and premature atherosclerotic cardiovascular 
disease if left untreated. Lowering of LDL-C is the main target of the 
treatment. We report on a 29-year-old male patient born in nonconsanguineous 
Lithuanian family homo(hemi-)zygous for LDLRAP1 gene variant causing ARH. This 
variant is not present in population databases and, to our knowledge, has not 
been reported in scientific literature before.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The earliest clinical sign, noticed at the age of 5 years, 
was painful and enlarging nodules on Achilles tendons. At the age of 10 years, 
xanthomas of the metacarpal joint area on both hands emerged. The first lipid 
panel was performed at the age of 12 years. In accordance with Dutch Lipid 
Clinic Network diagnostic criteria for familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), 
definite FH (type IIA hyperlipoproteinemia) was diagnosed and the treatment with 
cholestyramine 4 grams per day was initiated. As the patient was 15 years old, 
direct adsorption of low-density lipoprotein apheresis was started and repeated 
monthly. At the age of 20 years, along with lipoprotein apheresis, 10 mg of 
rosuvastatin daily intake was prescribed. At the age of 28 years, the dose of 
rosuvastatin was increased to 40 mg per day, and 10 mg of ezetimibe daily intake 
was added. At the age of 28 years, homozygous LDLRAP1 gene variant 
NM_015627.2:c.488A>C, NP_056442.2:p.(Gln163Pro) causing autosomal recessive 
hypercholesterolemia was determined by genetic testing.
CONCLUSIONS: This case report implies that ARH, being an extremely rare 
disorder, is a severe disease. As there is limited routine testing, including 
genetic testing, patients suffering from both this disease and FH may remain 
undiagnosed. Cascade screening and genetic counseling differ for ARH as compared 
with FH, as the carrier of a pathogenic variant in the LDLRAP1 gene does not 
have marked total cholesterol and LDL-C elevations. However, genetic testing of 
the proband and their relatives is essential to evaluate the risk of development 
of FH and to provide prognosis as well as adequate, timely treatment. To improve 
the quality of life of patients with FH and prolong their life expectancy, 
national registries of FH and wider laboratory and genetic testing are 
undoubtedly necessary. A national FH screening program was set up in Lithuania, 
which helps to identify, monitor, and treat subjects with FH.

Copyright © 2019 National Lipid Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacl.2019.09.009
PMID: 31734096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Lung Cancer. 2020 Jan;139:47-54. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2019.10.022. Epub
2019  Oct 31.

Quality of life analysis in lung cancer: A systematic review of phase III trials 
published between 2012 and 2018.

Reale ML(1), De Luca E(2), Lombardi P(3), Marandino L(3), Zichi C(2), Pignataro 
D(1), Ghisoni E(3), Di Stefano RF(1), Mariniello A(1), Trevisi E(1), Leone G(1), 
Muratori L(1), La Salvia A(1), Sonetto C(1), Bironzo P(1), Aglietta M(3), 
Novello S(1), Scagliotti GV(1), Perrone F(4), Di Maio M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University of Turin, San Luigi Gonzaga Hospital, 
Orbassano, TO, Italy.
(2)Department of Oncology, University of Turin, Ordine Mauriziano Hospital, 
Torino, Italy.
(3)Department of Oncology, University of Turin, Candiolo Cancer Institute - FPO- 
IRCCS, Candiolo, TO, Italy.
(4)Clinical Trials Unit, Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio e la Cura dei Tumori 
"Fondazione Giovanni Pascale"-IRCCS, Napoli, Italy.
(5)Department of Oncology, University of Turin, Ordine Mauriziano Hospital, 
Torino, Italy. Electronic address: massimo.dimaio@unito.it.

OBJECTIVES: We previously reported that quality of life (QoL) is not included 
among trial endpoints and QoL results are underreported in a significant 
proportion of phase III oncology trials. Here we describe QoL adoption, 
reporting and methodology of QoL analysis in lung cancer trials.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We selected all primary publications of lung cancer phase 
III trials assessing anticancer drugs published between 2012 and 2018 by 11 
major journals.
RESULTS: 122 publications were included. In 39 (32.0%) publications, QoL was not 
listed among endpoints: in 10/17 (58.8%) early stage/locally advanced NSCLC, in 
15/54 (27.8%) first-line of advanced NSCLC; in 10/41 (24.4%) second and further 
lines of advanced NSCLC, in 4/10 (40.0%) SCLC. Proportion of trials not 
including QoL was similar over time: 32.9% publications in 2012-2015 vs. 30.6% 
in 2016-2018. Out of 83 trials including QoL among endpoints, QoL results were 
absent in 36 primary publications (43.4%). Proportion of trials without QoL 
results in primary publication increased over time (30.6% 2012-2015 vs. 61.8% 
2016-2018, p = 0.005). Overall, QoL data were not available in 75/122 (61.5%) 
primary publications, due to the absent endpoint or unpublished results. QoL 
data were lacking in 48/68 (70.6%) publications of trials with overall survival 
as primary endpoint, 27/54 (50.0%) with other primary endpoints and 28/54 
(51.9%) publications with a positive result. For trials including QoL among 
endpoints but lacking QoL results in primary publication, probability of 
secondary publication was 6.3%, 30.1% and 49.8% after 1, 2 and 3 years 
respectively, without evidence of improvement comparing 2012-2015 vs. 2016-2018.
CONCLUSION: QoL is not assessed or published in many phase III lung cancer 
trials, a setting where QoL value should be highly considered, due to high 
symptom burden and generally limited life expectancy. Timely inclusion of 
results in primary publications is worsening in recent years.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2019.10.022
PMID: 31734586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Front Psychol. 2019 Oct 31;10:2452. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2019.02452.
eCollection  2019.

"Something to Live for": Experiences, Resources, and Personal Strengths in Late 
Adulthood.

Russo-Netzer P(1), Littman-Ovadia H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Counseling and Human Development, University of Haifa, Haifa, 
Israel.
(2)Department of Behavioral Sciences and Psychology, Ariel University, Ariel, 
Israel.

Due to increased life expectancy, the population segment of older adults has 
grown the fastest. The global phenomenon of population aging raises important 
questions regarding successful, positive, active, and meaningful aging. Given 
that aging is often characterized by declines in physical and mental health and 
increased risk for social isolation and depression, and given that the concept 
of well-being in old age is both elusive and complex, the present study explored 
how aging is experienced through a "bottom-up," open-ended approach. Thirty-one 
in-depth semi-structured personal interviews were conducted with adults aged 60 
and above in order to explore the question: what concerns older adults in their 
day-to-day living, and what are their perceived resources? The findings 
illuminated three prominent themes: (1) central concerns described by the 
participants as characterizing their experience at this life stage; (2) 
strategies employed by the participants to cope with concerns and to live a 
meaningful life in old age; and (3) resources and character strengths that 
facilitate coping strategies and enable thriving. Theoretical and practical 
implications of the findings are discussed.

Copyright © 2019 Russo-Netzer and Littman-Ovadia.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2019.02452
PMCID: PMC6834683
PMID: 31736839


153. Front Microbiol. 2019 Oct 31;10:2487. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02487.
eCollection  2019.

Klebsiella Phage KP34 RNA Polymerase and Its Use in RNA Synthesis.

Lu X(1), Wu H(1), Xia H(1), Huang F(1), Yan Y(1), Yu B(1), Cheng R(1), 
Drulis-Kawa Z(2), Zhu B(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Molecular Biophysics, the Ministry of Education, College of 
Life Sciences and Technology and Shenzhen College, Huazhong University of 
Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(2)Institute of Genetics and Microbiology, University of Wrocław, Wrocław, 
Poland.

We have characterized the single subunit RNA polymerase from Klebsiella phage 
KP34. The enzyme is unique among known bacteriophage RNA polymerases in that it 
recognizes two unrelated promoter sequences, which provided clues for the 
evolution of phage single-subunit RNA polymerases. As the first representative 
enzyme from the "phiKMV-like viruses" cluster, its use in run-off RNA synthesis 
was investigated. RNA-Seq analysis revealed that the KP34 RNA polymerase does 
not possess the undesired self-templated RNA terminus extension known for T7 RNA 
polymerase and is suitable to synthesize RNAs with structured 3' termini such as 
sgRNAs. A KP34 RNA polymerase Y603F mutant is engineered to incorporate deoxy- 
and 2'-fluoro ribonucleotide into RNA.

Copyright © 2019 Lu, Wu, Xia, Huang, Yan, Yu, Cheng, Drulis-Kawa and Zhu.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02487
PMCID: PMC6834552
PMID: 31736920


154. Am J Transl Res. 2019 Oct 15;11(10):6544-6552. eCollection 2019.

Coenzyme Q10 suppresses oxidative stress and apoptosis via activating the 
Nrf-2/NQO-1 and NF-κB signaling pathway after spinal cord injury in rats.

Li X(1)(2)(3), Zhan J(1)(2)(3), Hou Y(1)(2)(3), Chen S(1)(2)(3), Hou Y(1)(2)(3), 
Xiao Z(1)(2)(3), Luo D(1)(2)(3), Lin D(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou 
University of Chinese Medicine No. 111 Dade Road, Guangzhou 510120, Guangdong, 
P. R. China.
(2)Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine No. 12, Jichang Road, Baiyun 
District, Guangzhou 510405, Guangdong, P. R. China.
(3)Lingnan Medical Research Center of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine 
Guangzhou 510405, Guangdong, P. R. China.

Spinal cord injury (SCI) is one of the most devastating diseases that may cause 
paralysis, disability and irreversible loss of functions, which ultimately lead 
to permanent disabilities and a decrease in patient life expectancy. Coenzyme 
Q10 (CoQ10) is a lipid-soluble vitamin-like benzoquinone compound that can exert 
antioxidant and anti-apoptotic functions in a variety of diseases. However, the 
antioxidant and anti-apoptotic effects of CoQ10 in the treatment of SCI are 
still unknown. Therefore, we designed experiments to measure the changes in 
antioxidant capacity (glutathione (GSH), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and the end 
product of lipid peroxidation (MDA)) and apoptosis products (Bax, Bcl-2 and 
Caspase-3) to evaluate the protective effects of CoQ10 on SCI and investigated 
whether CoQ10 exerts its functions through the Nrf-2/NQO-1 and NF-κB signaling 
pathway. Our results showed that CoQ10 treatment could significantly decrease 
the levels of oxidative products (MDA) and increase the activities of 
antioxidant enzymes (SOD and GSH) against oxidative stress, as well as decrease 
the levels of pro-apoptotic proteins (Bax and Caspase-3) and increase the levels 
of anti-apoptotic proteins (Bcl-2) against apoptosis after SCI. We also observed 
that CoQ10 exerted beneficial effects through the Nrf-2/NQO-1 and NF-κB 
signaling pathway. These findings suggested that CoQ10 had a protective effect 
by decreasing oxidative stress and apoptosis after SCI. Thus, our data may 
provide a new approach wherein CoQ10 may be considered as a potential effective 
therapeutic for the treatment of SCI.

AJTR Copyright © 2019.

PMCID: PMC6834524
PMID: 31737205

Conflict of interest statement: None.


155. Conserv Physiol. 2019 Nov 11;7(1):coz062. doi: 10.1093/conphys/coz062. 
eCollection 2019.

The impact of environmental acidification on the microstructure and mechanical 
integrity of marine invertebrate skeletons.

Byrne M(1), Fitzer S(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Medical Science and School of Life and Environmental Science, The 
University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.
(2)Institute of Aquaculture, University of Stirling, Stirling, FK9 4LA, UK.

Ocean acidification (OA), from seawater uptake of anthropogenic CO2, has a suite 
of negative effects on the ability of marine invertebrates to produce and 
maintain their skeletons. Increased organism pCO2 causes hypercapnia, an 
energetically costly physiological stress. OA alters seawater carbonate 
chemistry, limiting the carbonate available to form the calcium carbonate 
(CaCO3) minerals used to build skeletons. The reduced saturation state of CaCO3 
also causes corrosion of CaCO3 structures. Global change is also accelerating 
coastal acidification driven by land-run off (e.g. acid soil leachates, tannic 
acid). Building and maintaining marine biomaterials in the face of changing 
climate will depend on the balance between calcification and dissolution. 
Overall, in response to environmental acidification, many calcifiers produce 
less biomineral and so have smaller body size. Studies of skeleton development 
in echinoderms and molluscs across life stages show the stunting effect of OA. 
For corals, linear extension may be maintained, but at the expense of less dense 
biomineral. Conventional metrics used to quantify growth and calcification need 
to be augmented by characterisation of the changes to biomineral structure and 
mechanical integrity caused by environmental acidification. Scanning electron 
microscopy and microcomputed tomography of corals, tube worms and sea urchins 
exposed to experimental (laboratory) and natural (vents, coastal run off) 
acidification show a less dense biomineral with greater porosity and a larger 
void space. For bivalves, CaCO3 crystal deposition is more chaotic in response 
to both ocean and coastal acidification. Biomechanics tests reveal that these 
changes result in weaker, more fragile skeletons, compromising their vital 
protective roles. Vulnerabilities differ among taxa and depend on acidification 
level. Climate warming has the potential to ameliorate some of the negative 
effects of acidification but may also make matters worse. The integrative 
morphology-ecomechanics approach is key to understanding how marine biominerals 
will perform in the face of changing climate.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press and the Society for 
Experimental Biology.

DOI: 10.1093/conphys/coz062
PMCID: PMC6846232
PMID: 31737270


156. Cardiovasc Diagn Ther. 2019 Oct;9(Suppl 2):S377-S387. doi: 
10.21037/cdt.2018.09.17.

Significance of oral health in adult patients with congenital heart disease.

Folwaczny M(1), Bauer F(2), Grünberg C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Conservative Dentistry and Periodontology, University Hospital, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich, Germany.
(2)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, University of Technology 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(3)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, University Hospital, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich, Germany.

Due to improved diagnosis and treatment life expectancy of patients with 
congenital heart disease is steadily increasing resulting in a growing portion 
of adult patients. When entering, adulthood patients commonly show a shift in 
their specific needs for medical care. Since the treatment is mostly not 
curative many patients have life-long cardiovascular anomalies, among others, 
entailing high risk for the development of infective endocarditis. Several oral 
diseases, i.e., caries, apical periodontitis and periodontitis show a very high 
overall prevalence. These entities are primarily initiated by bacterial 
infections. Hence, they cause an inherent risk for bacteremia and subsequently 
for infective endocarditis in patients with congenital heart disease during 
professional dental care and various daily activities. Conversely congenital 
heart disease seems to be inevitably associated with considerable impairment of 
oral health resulting in a tight interrelation between both entities. Different 
preventive strategies are available to address the elevated risk for infective 
endocarditis due to oral diseases in patients with congenital heart disease 
during professional dental care and routine daily activities. This review 
delineates the current evidence regarding the issue of oral health in adult 
patients with congenital heart disease.

2019 Cardiovascular Diagnosis and Therapy. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/cdt.2018.09.17
PMCID: PMC6837931
PMID: 31737544

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors have no 
conflicts of interest to declare.


157. Front Oncol. 2019 Nov 1;9:1134. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2019.01134. eCollection
2019.

Contribution of Different Positron Emission Tomography Tracers in Glioma 
Management: Focus on Glioblastoma.

Moreau A(1), Febvey O(1), Mognetti T(1), Frappaz D(1), Kryza D(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre Léon Bérard, Lyon, France.
(2)UNIV Lyon - Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, LAGEPP UMR 5007 CNRS 
Villeurbanne, Villeurbanne, France.
(3)Hospices Civils de Lyon, Lyon, France.

Although rare, glioblastomas account for the majority of primary brain lesions, 
with a dreadful prognosis. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is currently the 
imaging method providing the higher resolution. However, it does not always 
succeed in distinguishing recurrences from non-specific temozolomide, have been 
shown to improve -related changes caused by the combination of radiotherapy, 
chemotherapy, and targeted therapy, also called pseudoprogression. Strenuous 
attempts to overcome this issue is highly required for these patients with a 
short life expectancy for both ethical and economic reasons. Additional reliable 
information may be obtained from positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. The 
development of this technique, along with the emerging of new classes of 
tracers, can help in the diagnosis, prognosis, and assessment of therapies. We 
reviewed the current data about the commonly used tracers, such as 
18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) and radiolabeled amino acids, as well as 
different PET tracers recently investigated, to report their strengths, 
limitations, and relevance in glioblastoma management.

Copyright © 2019 Moreau, Febvey, Mognetti, Frappaz and Kryza.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2019.01134
PMCID: PMC6839136
PMID: 31737567


158. Immunotherapy. 2019 Dec;11(17):1463-1478. doi: 10.2217/imt-2019-0178. Epub
2019  Nov 18.

Cost-effectiveness of pembrolizumab versus chemotherapy as first-line treatment 
in PD-L1-positive advanced non-small-cell lung cancer in the USA.

Huang M(1), Lopes GL(2), Insinga RP(1), Burke T(1), Ejzykowicz F(1), Zhang Y(3), 
Feliciano JL(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Observational & Real World Evidence (CORE), Merck & Co., Inc., 
Kenilworth, NJ 07033, USA.
(2)Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Miami & the Miller 
School of Medicine, Miami, FL 33136, USA.
(3)HTA Statistics Europe, Merck Sharp & Dohme, 1200 Brussels, Belgium.
(4)The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, MD 21287, USA.

Aim: This analysis aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of pembrolizumab 
monotherapy as first-line treatment in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer 
patients with a programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) tumor proportion score ≥1% 
from a US payer perspective. Materials & methods: A partitioned survival model 
was developed using efficacy and safety data from the KEYNOTE-042 trial and 
projected over 20 years. Costs accounted for treatment, toxicity and disease 
management. Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were reported. Results: Pembrolizumab resulted in an 
expected gain of 0.60 life years and 0.49 QALYs compared with platinum-based 
chemotherapy. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was US$130,155/QALY. 
Conclusion: Pembrolizumab is projected to be cost-effective compared with 
platinum-based chemotherapy as first-line treatment for advanced non-small-cell 
lung cancer with PD-L1 tumor proportion score ≥1%.

DOI: 10.2217/imt-2019-0178
PMID: 31738117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Biomater Sci. 2019 Dec 17;8(1):413-425. doi: 10.1039/c9bm01234f.

Scleral ossicles: angiogenic scaffolds, a novel biomaterial for regenerative 
medicine applications.

Checchi M (1), Bertacchini J , Cavani F , Magarò MS , Reggiani Bonetti L , 
Pugliese GR , Tamma R , Ribatti D , Maurel DB , Palumbo C .

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical, Metabolic Science and Neuroscience, University of 
Modena and Reggio Emilia, 41125 Modena, Italy. marta.checchi@unimore.it 
jbertacchini@unimore.it.

Given the current prolonged life expectancy, various pathologies affect 
increasingly the aging subjects. Regarding the musculoskeletal apparatus, bone 
fragility induces more susceptibility to fractures, often not accompanied by 
good ability of self-repairing, in particular when critical-size defects (CSD) 
occur. Currently orthopedic surgery makes use of allografting and autografting 
which, however, have limitations due to the scarce amount of tissue that can be 
taken from the donor, the possibility of disease transmission and donor site 
morbidity. The need to develop new solutions has pushed the field of tissue 
engineering (TE) research to study new scaffolds to be functionalized in order 
to obtain constructs capable of promoting tissue regeneration and achieve stable 
bone recovery over time. This investigation focuses on the most important aspect 
related to bone tissue regeneration: the angiogenic properties of the scaffold 
to be used. As an innovative solution, scleral ossicles (SOs), previously 
characterized as natural, biocompatible and spontaneously decellularized 
scaffolds used for bone repair, were tested for angiogenic potential and 
biocompatibility. To reach this purpose, in ovo Chorioallantoic Membrane Assay 
(CAM) was firstly used to test the angiogenic potential; secondly, in vivo 
subcutaneous implantation of SOs (in a rat model) was performed in order to 
assess the biocompatibility and the inflammatory response. Finally, thanks to 
the analysis of mass spectrometry (LCMSQE), the putative proteins responsible 
for the SO angiogenic properties were identified. Thus, a novel natural 
biomaterial is proposed, which is (i) able to induce an angiogenic response in 
vivo by subcutaneous implantation in a non-immunodeficient animal model, (ii) 
which does not induce any inflammatory response, and (iii) is useful for 
regenerative medicine application for the healing of bone CSD.

DOI: 10.1039/c9bm01234f
PMID: 31738355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. J Invest Surg. 2021 Jul;34(7):747-753. doi: 10.1080/08941939.2019.1683658.
Epub  2019 Nov 19.

Use of Vaginal Reconstructive Surgery in Cervical Cancer Patients to Prevent 
Vaginal Stump Contracture.

Wang Z(1), Zeng A(1), Long F(1), Wu M(2), Tan XJ(2), Liu ZW(3), Wang XJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic and Cosmetic Surgery, Peking Union Medical College 
Hospital, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Peking Union Medical College 
Hospital, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of General Surgery, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, 
Beijing, China.

Comment in
    J Invest Surg. 2019 Dec 10;:1-2.

PURPOSE: The life quality of cervical cancer patients is severely compromised 
due to the vaginal stump contracture after surgery combined with radiotherapy. 
Therefore, our study focuses on ameliorating or preventing postoperative vaginal 
contracture. The objectives of this study were (1) to evaluate the method of 
ileal graft with vascular pedicle to extend the length of vagina and (2) to 
investigate the effect of the operation to prevent vaginal stump contracture 
after cervical cancer surgery combined with radiotherapy.
METHODS: Twenty-five patients with vaginal stump contracture after cervical 
cancer radical resection with sequential radiotherapy were recruited for the 
study between 2011 and 2014. The therapy includes releasing the adhesion between 
vaginal stump and rectum as well as bladder, resecting the vaginal stump but 
reserving the exterior orifice of vagina, and extending the vaginal length using 
vascularized ileal graft.
RESULTS: No postoperative complications such as infection and bleeding were 
observed in all 25 patients. The patients were satisfied with the length and 
width of vagina after extension; the discharge of reconstructed vagina was 
acceptable. All patients had sexual intercourse on the follow-up examination, 
and five patients complained of vaginal bleeding during or after sexual 
intercourse, although no abnormality was found on colposcopy.
CONCLUSIONS: The patients demonstrated a high level of safety, efficacy, and 
satisfaction with the ileal-vaginal extension for treating vaginal stump 
contracture after cervical cancer surgery combined with radiotherapy, suggesting 
that this method is valid for broad clinical application to improve the life 
quality of cervical cancer patients after surgery.

DOI: 10.1080/08941939.2019.1683658
PMID: 31739704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Tumori. 2020 Apr;106(2):149-154. doi: 10.1177/0300891619886657. Epub 2019
Nov  18.

Prognostic CT findings of malignant bowel obstruction in patients with advanced 
ovarian cancer.

Miccò M(1), Sbarra M(1)(2), Gui B(1), Bianco NC(1)(2), Rodolfino E(1), Manfredi 
R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Radiologia Diagnostica e Interventistica Generale, Area Diagnostica per 
Immagini, Dipartimento Diagnostica per Immagini, Radioterapia Oncologica ed 
Ematologia, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli IRCCS, Rome, Italy.
(2)Istituto di Radiologia, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Rome, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate computed tomography (CT) findings able to predict outcome 
in patients with ovarian cancer (OC) and concomitant bowel occlusion.
METHODS: This institutional review board-approved retrospective study included 
31 patients with OC and clinical evidence of bowel occlusion who underwent CT at 
presentation between February 2013 and June 2015. Two radiologists recorded 
various qualitative CT features. Correlations between CT and survival data were 
made with Mann-Whitney test, Wilcoxon test, and χ2 test, as appropriate. 
Receiver operating characteristic curves were generated for statistically 
significant CT findings using logistic regression model.
RESULTS: Two of 31 patients (6.5%) were alive at the end of this study; 29 
patients (93.5%) died of disease. Median overall survival was 90 days. CT 
features associated with short life expectancy were bowel mural thinning 
(p=0.03), mesenteric tumor deposits (p=0.009), mesenteric infiltration (p=0.02), 
and ascites (p=0.04). Area under the curve was 0.728 (p=0.03) for mesenteric 
tumor deposits in predicting malignant bowel obstruction.
CONCLUSIONS: Accurate interpretation of CT features may guide decisions in care 
of women with OC and bowel obstruction.

DOI: 10.1177/0300891619886657
PMID: 31739760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. BMJ Open. 2019 Nov 18;9(11):e031184. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2019-031184.

Analysis of the burden and trend of injury in Sichuan, China, from 2006 to 2015: 
results from the national injury surveillance system.

Cai P(#)(1)(2), Wu X(#)(3), Liu Z(4), Deng Y(3), Chen X(5), Yi G(3), Xu J(2), 
Huang S(2), Luan R(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Sichuan University West China School of Public 
Health, Chengdu, China.
(2)Department of Non-communicable Disease Control and Prevention, Center for 
Disease Control and Prevention of Qingyang District, Chengdu, China.
(3)Institute of Non-communicable Disease Control and Prevention, Sichuan Center 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Chengdu, China.
(4)Institute for Health Education, Jiangsu Provincial Center for Disease 
Prevention and Control, Nanjing, China.
(5)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, Public Health School, 
Chengde Medical College, Chengde, China.
(6)Department of Epidemiology, Sichuan University West China School of Public 
Health, Chengdu, China Luan_chuan123@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: This study investigates the distribution, burden and trends of 
injuries in Sichuan, China.
DESIGN: A surveillance study using injury data collected by the National Injury 
Surveillance System.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: 312 511 injury cases reported in the National Injury 
Surveillance System in Sichuan, China, from 2006 to 2015.
PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Years of potential life lost (YPLL) were calculated to 
determine the disease burden from injuries. Trend analysis was performed to 
assess the trends in specific injuries over time.
RESULTS: A total of 312 511 injury cases were reported in the last 10 years in 
Sichuan with 192 904 (men: 58.58%) and 119 607 (men: 67.11%) cases from the 
urban and rural surveillance hospitals, respectively. The annual number of 
injury cases increased from 21 257 in 2006 to 44 112 in 2015 with an average 
annual increase of 8.45%. The top three common causes of injury were fall 
(29.3%), animal-related injury (19.1%) and road-related injury (14.6%) in the 
urban area and fall (38.4%), road-related injury (17.2%) and blunt injuries 
(16.0%) in the rural area. YPLLs from injuries accounted for 13% of the total 
YPLLs in the urban area.
CONCLUSIONS: The number of injury cases varied according to rural/urban areas 
and gender and increased sharply in Sichuan over the last decade. It is 
necessary to develop targeted prevention and control measures to reduce the 
disease burden of injuries.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2019. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2019-031184
PMCID: PMC6886999
PMID: 31740468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


163. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2020 Mar 1;30(3):394-399. doi: 
10.1093/icvts/ivz268.

Life expectancy of patients undergoing surgical aortic valve replacement 
compared with that of the general population.

Hernandez-Vaquero D(1)(2), Diaz R(1)(2), Alperi A(3), Almendarez MG(3), Escalera 
A(1), Cubero-Gallego H(3), Avanzas P(2)(3)(4), Moris C(2)(3)(4), Pascual 
I(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Surgery Department, Central University Hospital of Asturias, Oviedo, 
Spain.
(2)Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria del Principado de Asturias, Oviedo, 
Spain.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Central University Hospital of Asturias, Oviedo, 
Spain.
(4)University of Oviedo, Oviedo, Spain.

OBJECTIVES: Surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) changes the natural history 
of severe aortic stenosis. However, whether the life expectancy of patients with 
severe aortic stenosis undergoing this surgical procedure is fully restored is 
unknown. The objective of this study was to assess if the life expectancy of 
patients aged >75 years is fully restored after undergoing surgery for severe 
aortic stenosis.
METHODS: We compared long-term survival of a group of patients aged >75 years, 
who underwent SAVR at our institution with the long-term survival of the general 
population. We matched each patient with 100 simulated individuals (control 
group) of the same age, sex and geographical region who died as indicated by the 
National Institute of Statistics. We compared survival curves and calculated 
hazard ratio (HR) or incidence rate ratio. Statistical significance existed if 
confidence intervals (CIs) did not overlap or did not include the value 1, as 
appropriate.
RESULTS: Average life expectancy of surgical patients who survived the 
postoperative period was 90.91 months (95% CI 82.99-97.22), compared to 
92.94 months (95% CI 92.39-93.55) in the control group. One-, 5- and 8-year 
survival rates for SAVR patients who were discharged from the hospital were 
94.9% (95% CI 92.74-96.43%), 71.66% (95% CI 67.37-75.5%) and 44.48% (95% CI 
38.14-50.61%), respectively, compared to that of the general population: 95.8% 
(95% CI 95.64-95.95%), 70.64% (95% CI 70.28%-71%) and 47.91% (95% CI 
47.52-48.31%), respectively (HR 1.07, 95% CI 0.94-1.22).
CONCLUSION: For patients over the age of 75 years who underwent SAVR and 
survived the postoperative period, life expectancy and survival rates were 
similar to that of the general population.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/icvts/ivz268
PMID: 31740947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2020 Jun;18(3):393-411. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-019-00536-w.

Cost-Effectiveness of Therapeutic Use of Safety-Engineered Syringes in 
Healthcare Facilities in India.

Bahuguna P(1), Prinja S(2), Lahariya C(3), Dhiman RK(4), Kumar MP(4), Sharma 
V(1), Aggarwal AK(1), Bhaskar R(5), De Graeve H(3), Bekedam H(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, 160012, India.
(2)School of Public Health, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, 160012, India. shankarprinja@gmail.com.
(3)World Health Organization Country Office for India, New Delhi, India.
(4)Department of Hepatology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, India.
(5)Department of Health and Family Welfare, Punjab, India.

BACKGROUND: Globally, 16 billion injections are administered each year of which 
95% are for curative care. India contributes 25-30% of the global injection 
load. Over 63% of these injections are reportedly unsafe or deemed unnecessary.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
gained with the introduction of safety-engineered syringes (SES) as compared to 
disposable syringes for therapeutic care in India.
METHODS: A decision tree was used to compute the volume of needle-stick injuries 
(NSIs) and reuse episodes among healthcare professionals and the patient 
population. Subsequently, three separate Markov models were used to compute 
lifetime costs and QALYs for individuals infected with hepatitis B virus (HBV), 
hepatitis C virus (HCV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Three SES were 
evaluated-reuse prevention syringe (RUP), sharp injury prevention (SIP) syringe, 
and syringes with features of both RUP and SIP. A lifetime study horizon 
starting from a base year of 2017 was considered appropriate to cover all costs 
and consequences comprehensively. A systematic review was undertaken to assess 
the SES effects in terms of reduction in NSIs and reuse episodes. These were 
then modelled in terms of reduction in transmission of blood-borne infections, 
life-years and QALYs gained. Future costs and consequences were discounted at 
the rate of 3%. Incremental cost per QALY gained was computed to assess the 
cost-effectiveness. A probabilistic sensitivity analysis was undertaken to 
account for parameter uncertainties.
RESULTS: The introduction of RUP, SIP and RUP + SIP syringes in India is 
estimated to incur an incremental cost of Indian National Rupee (INR) 61,028 
(US$939), INR 7,768,215 (US$119,511) and INR 196,135 (US$3017) per QALY gained, 
respectively. A total of 96,296 HBV, 44,082 HCV and 5632 HIV deaths are 
estimated to be averted due to RUP in 20 years. RUP has an 84% probability to be 
cost-effective at a threshold of per capita gross domestic product (GDP). The 
RUP syringe can become cost saving at a unit price of INR 1.9. Similarly, SIP 
and RUP + SIP syringes can be cost-effective at a unit price of less than INR 
1.2 and INR 5.9, respectively.
CONCLUSION: RUP syringes are estimated to be cost-effective in the Indian 
context. SIP and RUP + SIP syringes are not cost-effective at the current unit 
prices. Efforts should be made to bring down the price of SES to improve its 
cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-019-00536-w
PMCID: PMC7250963
PMID: 31741306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Pankaj Bahuguna, Shankar Prinja, R.K. Dhiman, 
Madhumita Prem Kumar, Vineeta Sharma, A.K. Aggarwal and Rajesh Bhaskar declare 
they have no conflicts of interest.


165. Lancet. 2019 Nov 16;394(10211):1779. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(19)32759-X.

Raising the profile of men's health.

The Lancet.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2020 Apr 18;395(10232):1258.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(19)32759-X
PMID: 31741441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. J Food Sci Technol. 2019 Nov;56(11):4826-4833. doi:
10.1007/s13197-019-03944-x.  Epub 2019 Jul 30.

Evaluation of shelf-life, antioxidant activity and nutritional quality 
attributes in carnauba wax coated eggplant genotypes.

Singh S(1), Singh B(1), Alam T(2).

Author information:
(1)1Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, ICAR, Varanasi, India.
(2)Indian Institute of Packaging, Delhi, India.

Eggplant genotypes of white, green and violet are very popular in the specific 
regions of sub-tropics and tropics. These possess enormous health benefits as 
having high antioxidant activity. Due to limited shelf life i.e. 3 days at 
ambient storage, wholesalers and retailers apply many unhygienic practices. They 
use petroleum based oil to make the fruit surface shiny and attractive. In the 
present study, Eggplant genotypes, viz. violet, green and white, were assessed 
after carnauba wax (CW) emulsion containing additives such as 2.5% polyethylene 
glycol (PEG) and 0.5% sodium alginate (SA) as T1, 0.5% SA as T2, 2.5% PEG as T3 
and non-coated eggplant fruits as control fruits (T4) for shelf life extension 
and retention of nutritional quality attributes at ambient condition (20 ± 2 °C 
and RH 52-54%) for 7 days. The additives mixed CW coatings were effective in 
extending the shelf life and retaining the nutritional quality attributes than 
control genotypes. Sodium alginate (SA) mixed CW coating resulted in maximum 
shelf life extension of white eggplant genotypes by 7 days as compared to 
3-4 days in control eggplant genotypes at ambient storage. However, 6.9%, 1.83% 
and 6.04% decrease in physiological loss in weight was obtained in 0.5% SA based 
CW coating after 5 days of ambient storage of violet, green and white eggplant 
genotypes, respectively in comparison to fully control eggplant genotype. The 
firmness level of eggplant genotypes in 0.5% SA based CW coating was more 
(85.1%, 50% and 45%) after 7 days of ambient storage of violet, green and white 
genotypes, respectively in comparison to fully control eggplant genotype. 
Similarly, total phenol content was also increased (26.1%, 37.5% and 180.9%) in 
0.5% SA based CW coated eggplant genotypes of violet, green and white, 
respectively after 7 days of ambient storage in comparison to fully control 
eggplant genotype. Initially there had been increase in antioxidant activity in 
white genotype up to 5 days of storage which thereafter decreased on 7 days of 
storage in all the treatments. However, violet and green genotypes had not 
followed any trend during storage.

© Association of Food Scientists & Technologists (India) 2019.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-019-03944-x
PMCID: PMC6828886
PMID: 31741507

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestAuthors declare that there 
has been no conflict of interest.


167. J Food Sci Technol. 2019 Nov;56(11):4867-4878. doi:
10.1007/s13197-019-03956-7.  Epub 2019 Aug 16.

Shelf-life extension of grape (Pinot noir) by xanthan gum enriched with ascorbic 
and citric acid during cold temperature storage.

Golly MK(1)(2), Ma H(1), Sarpong F(1), Dotse BP(3), Oteng-Darko P(4), Dong Y(1).

Author information:
(1)1School of Food and Biological Engineering, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang, 
212013 People's Republic of China.
(2)2Faculty of Applied Sciences and Technology, Sunyani Technical University, P. 
O. Box 206, Sunyani, Ghana.
(3)Community Health Nurses Training College, P. O. Box 2066, Tanoso, Brong Ahafo 
Ghana.
(4)4Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-Crops Research 
Institute, Oduom Road, P. O. Box 3785, Kumasi, Ghana.

The detrimental health implications of chemical preservatives in fruits have 
necessitated exploitation of safe and natural alternatives such as edible gums. 
This work studied shelf-life extension in grape (Pinot noir) under cold storage 
by xanthan gum (XAN) coatings enriched with ascorbic acid (XANAS) and citric 
acid (XANCI). Standard scientific methods were used to examine some sensory 
(color, texture-resilience and hardness), enzyme, anthocyanine and antioxidant 
activities. Also, the reaction rate mechanism was examined through modeling of 
selected shelf-life indicators; color change, weight loss, and antioxidants. The 
results revealed that, Xanthan gum and its acid modified coatings significantly 
(p < 0.05) suppressed polyphenol oxidase, ascorbic acid oxidase, polymethyl 
etherase acitivies and maintained the structural integrity of the grape during 
the 21 days storage period. Weight loss (%) in the grape samples was 
13.66 < 13.98 < 14.16 < 15.64 in the order XANAS < XANCI < XAN < CONTROL whilst 
ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) activity was 
150.23 > 143.18 > 136.49 > 104.5 mg/100 g AEAC corresponding to 
XAN > XANAS > XANCI > CONTROL. Significantly (p < 0.05) higher phytochemical 
contents were observed in the gum coatings compared to the control. Through 
statistical parameters such as the coefficient of determination (R 2), root mean 
square error (RMSE) and reduced Chi square (χ2), the second-order polynomial 
model predicted precisely the decomposition of color, weight loss and FRAP of 
grape. Color deterioration was attributed to changes in b* parameter as a result 
of phenolics and phytochemical decompositions resulting from enzymatic 
activities. Conclusively, acid modified xanthan gum coatings could preserve 
phytochemicals, color, antioxidant and textural properties of grape in cold 
temperature storage.

© Association of Food Scientists & Technologists (India) 2019.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-019-03956-7
PMCID: PMC6828895
PMID: 31741511

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThere exists no conflicting 
interest on the part of any of the authors.


168. J Food Sci Technol. 2019 Nov;56(11):5087-5096. doi:
10.1007/s13197-019-03981-6.  Epub 2019 Aug 1.

Functional and antioxidant properties of cookies incorporated with foxtail 
millet and ginger powder.

Marak NR(1), Malemnganbi CC(1), Marak CR(1), Mishra LK(2).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Food Science and Nutrition, College of Community Science, 
Central Agricultural University, Tura, Meghalaya India.
(2)2College of Agriculture, Central Agricultural University, Iroisemba, Imphal, 
795004 India.

The functional, sensory, nutritive, phytochemical and antioxidant properties of 
flours derived from wheat, foxtail millet and ginger along with the cookies 
formulated from these ingredients was studied. The foxtail millet (20, 30 and 
40%) and ginger powder (5, 10 and 15%) blended wheat flours were investigated 
and compared to control (100% wheat flour). The increase in substitution levels 
of both the alternatives improved the functional properties of the composite 
flour and cookies formulated. Sensory analysis revealed that cookies prepared 
from 30% foxtail millet and 10% ginger powder had comparable scores. These were 
further subjected to nutritive and phytochemical analyses. The results revealed 
that cookies formulated using both the alternatives had reasonable proximate 
composition comparable to control. The substituted cookies had higher total 
soluble phenolic content and antioxidant capacities in terms of DPPH and ABTS 
scavenging potential and a strongly positive correlation was observed between 
the total soluble phenolic content and antioxidant capacities in composite flour 
and the cookies formulated from the flours. Overall the addition of foxtail 
millet flour (30%) and ginger powder (10%) improved the nutritional and phenolic 
linked antioxidant potential which can lead to shelf life extension and enhanced 
health benefits.

© Association of Food Scientists & Technologists (India) 2019.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-019-03981-6
PMCID: PMC6828868
PMID: 31741533

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestAll authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


169. Klin Lab Diagn. 2019;64(10):607-612. doi:
10.18821/0869-2084-2019-64-10-607-612.

[Application of alpha-fetoprotein and osteopontin combination for early 
diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma associated with hepatitis C.].

[Article in Russian]

Malov SI(1)(2), Malov IV(1), Dvornichenko VV(1)(2), Rasulov RI(2), Kuvshinov 
AG(1), Marche PN(3), Decaens T(3), Macek-Jilkova Z(3), Yushchuk ND(4).

Author information:
(1)Irkutsk State Medical university, 664003, Irkutsk, Russia.
(2)Irkutsk State Medical Academy of Postgraduate education, 664049, Irkutsk, 
Russia.
(3)Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Research Center Inserm U1209, CNRS 5309, 
Univ. Grenoble-Alpes, 38700, La Tronche, France.
(4)Moscow State University of Medicine and Dentistry named after A.I. Evdokimov, 
127473, Moscow, Russia.

Liver cirrhosis in the outcome of hepatitis C is the leading cause of 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in the world. Early diagnosis and timely 
treatment of HCC are important for reducing mortality and increasing life 
expectancy of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. To assess the risk of HCC, 
the definition of alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) in the blood is most widely used, but 
low sensitivity limits its diagnostic value. In 2012, a new HCC biomarker - 
osteopontin (OPN), which is a secreted phosphoprotein that has a high affinity 
for integrins was proposed. The level of acute renal failure begins to rise in 
the early stages of malignancy, before the period of HCC detection by imaging 
methods, and has significantly better sensitivity than AFP. The purpose of this 
study is to evaluate the diagnostic efficacy of the combined determination of 
alpha-fetoprotein and osteopontin in prospective monitoring of patients with 
chronic hepatitis C in the advanced phase of liver fibrosis. Monitoring of 588 
patients with hepatitis C was carried out from February 2013 to February 2019. 
HCC was detected in 55 of them (2.6% per year). The combination of 2 biomarkers 
showed better diagnostic efficacy than alpha-fetoprotein and osteopontin 
separately: AUC 0.85 (95% CI 0.80-0.90) versus AUC 0.63 (95% CI 0.57-0, 70) and 
AUC 0.82 (95% CI 0.77-0.88), respectively. This combination showed a sensitivity 
of 85.5% and made it possible to diagnose HCC with a prognostic level of a 
positive result of 72.3% at 19,4±0,8 weeks before the diagnosis was confirmed by 
instrumental imaging methods (ultrasound, MRI, CT). In the combined variant, ARF 
made the greatest contribution to the increase in diagnostic efficacy (AUC). At 
an early and very early stage of HCC development, isolated HCC elevations were 
found in only 5.4% of patients. Conclusion: the combined use of alphafetoprotein 
and osteopontin as a diagnostic panel can be recommended for monitoring patients 
with liver cirrhosis in the outcome of hepatitis C and predicting HCC at an 
early stage of development.
