
Publisher: Introdução: Foi objectivo este estudo avaliar a capacidade funcional 
e determinar os fatores associados ao declínio funcional dos idosos num centro 
de dia e apoio domiciliário no Concelho de Coimbra, Portugal. Material e 
Métodos: Estudo transversal. Participaram no estudo 115 indivíduos de ambos os 
géneros, com idades entre os 65 – 98 anos, que utilizaram os serviços de apoio 
domiciliário e centro de dia no Concelho de Coimbra, Portugal. A capacidade 
funcional foi avaliada através dos questionários: índice de Barthel e índice de 
Lawton. Foi utilizado um questionário para caracterização sociodemográfica e do 
estado de saúde dos participantes. Resultados: Na análise, as atividades básicas 
da vida diária tiveram associação significativa com idade, coabitação, uso de 
medicamentos, quedas e presença de multimorbilidade. Na análise entre as 
variáveis de estudo e as atividades instrumentais da vida diária, houve 
associação significativa com idade, vínculo com instituição, perceção do estado 
de saúde, internamento hospitalar, uso de medicamento, prática de atividades 
física, presença de multimorbilidade, quedas e prevenção de quedas. Discussão: 
Os resultados demonstram que não foram encontradas diferenças estatisticamente 
observáveis entre género e dependência funcional. Quando a relação entre as 
habilidades funcionais e a coabitação foi analisada, houve uma relação 
significativa entre o índice de Barthel e a coabitação. Sublinha-se que essa 
amostra revelou o papel altamente importante das famílias na determinação da 
proteção de pessoas idosas muito dependentes, bem como foi observada uma relação 
significativa entre as atividades instrumentais da vida diária e os níveis de 
atividade física, em que maior independência foi encontrada nos idosos que 
praticavam exercício físico três ou mais vezes por semana. Conclusão: Os 
resultados deste estudo permitem identificar fatores que podem estar associados 
ao declínio funcional dos idosos. Acrescentam evidências úteis para a adoção de 
estratégias de intervenção nesta população, focadas na prevenção do declínio 
funcional e na manutenção das capacidades funcionais dos idosos.

DOI: 10.20344/amp.11974
PMID: 31625878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Zh Nevrol Psikhiatr Im S S Korsakova. 2019;119(9):136-142. doi: 
10.17116/jnevro2019119091136.

[Exercise for depression treatment. Exercise modalities and types].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Gultyaeva VV(1), Zinchenko MI(1), Uryumtsev DY(1), Krivoshchekov SG(1), Aftanas 
LI(1).

Author information:
(1)Federal State Budgetary Scientific Institution 'Scientific Research Institute 
of Physiology and Basic Medicine', Novosibirsk, Russia.

The risk of metabolic disorders, including type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular 
diseases, is increased in depression, there is a decrease in life expectancy by 
8-10 years. Pharmacotherapy is the first-line method in the treatment of 
depression. However, pharmaceutical-related side-effects and resistance to 
antidepressant pharmacotherapy create serious problems in treatment. Regular 
exercise not only weakens the symptoms of depression, increases aerobic capacity 
and muscle strength, but also has a positive effect on comorbid diseases. The 
purpose of this review is to answer the question, on which parameters of 
exercise the antidepressant effect depends. The review highlights the results of 
clinical studies of different types of exercises, intensities and modalities for 
the treatment of depression over the past 10 years. Because of the contradictory 
results of the studies, it is impossible to make final conclusions regarding the 
parameters of exercise. It is possible to say with high probability that in the 
treatment of depression, moderate and intense aerobic exercises with elements of 
strength exercises and a variety of coordination exercises more often lead to a 
positive effect than monotonous exercises with low intensity. It is possible 
that regular patient adherence to the prescribed exercise regimen is more 
important than the specific exercise type.

Publisher: При депрессии повышен риск метаболических нарушений, включая диабет 
2-го типа, и сердечно-сосудистых заболеваний, отмечается снижение 
продолжительности жизни на 8-10 лет. Методом первой линии в лечении депрессии 
является фармакотерапия. Однако связанные с фармпрепаратами побочные эффекты и 
резистентность к антидепрессивной фармакотерапии создают серьезные проблемы при 
лечении. Регулярная физическая нагрузка (ФН) не только ослабляет симптомы 
депрессии, увеличивает аэробную способность и мышечную силу, но и положительно 
влияет на коморбидные с депрессией заболевания. Цель обзора - ответ на вопрос, 
от каких параметров ФН зависит антидепрессивный эффект. В обзоре освещены 
результаты клинических исследований ФН различных видов, интенсивностей и режимов 
для лечения депрессии за последние 10 лет. Из-за противоречивых результатов 
исследований окончательные выводы относительно параметров ФН не могут быть 
сделаны. С большой вероятностью можно сказать, что при лечении депрессии 
умеренные и интенсивные аэробные ФН с элементами силовых упражнений и 
разнообразными упражнениями на координацию чаще приводят к положительному 
эффекту, чем однообразные упражнения с низкой интенсивностью. Возможно, что 
регулярное соблюдение пациентом назначенного режима ФН важнее, чем конкретный 
вид ФН.

DOI: 10.17116/jnevro2019119091136
PMID: 31626231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Rev Prat. 2019 Apr;69(4):438-443.

[Benefits of physical activity for cancer patients].

[Article in French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]

Ancellin R(1).

Author information:
(1)Département prévention, Institut national du cancer, Boulogne-Billancourt, 
France.

The prescription of physical activity for patients living with a long-term 
condition has been enshrined in legislation since 2016. The French National 
Cancer Institute published a literature review on the expected effects of 
physical activity in patients living with cancer. The benefits are prevention or 
correction of physical deconditioning, a preservation and/or a normalization of 
body composition, a reduction of cancerrelated fatigue, an overall 
quality-of-life improvement, the improvement of treatments tolerance and their 
medium and long-term effects, an increased life expectancy and a lower risk of 
cancer recurrence. These effects can be observed for a mixed physical activity 
program -cardio respiratory fitness and muscular strength-, with moderate to 
vigorous intensity activity, 30 minutes a day at least 5 days a week. The 
benefits are all the more important as physical activity starts early. Health 
professionals have an important part to play in helping patients engage in 
physical activity, with a regular even moderate practice which is always 
beneficial as compared with sedentary behaviors.

Publisher: BÉNÉFICES DE L’ACTIVITÉ PHYSIQUE POUR LES PATIENTS ATTEINTS DE CANCER 
La prescription d’une activité physique adaptée pour les patients atteints d’une 
affection longue durée est inscrite dans la loi depuis 2016. L’Institut national 
du cancer a publié une synthèse de la littérature sur les effets à attendre de 
l’activité physique pour les patients atteints de cancer. Les bénéfices sont la 
prévention ou la correction d’un déconditionnement physique, un maintien et/ou 
une normalisation de la composition corporelle, une réduction de la fatigue liée 
aux cancers, une amélioration globale de la qualité de vie, une amélioration de 
la tolérance des traitements et de leurs effets à moyen et long terme, un 
allongement de l’espérance de vie et une réduction du risque de récidive. Ces 
effets sont observés pour une pratique d’activité physique mixte 
-cardiorespiratoires et renforcement musculaire-, comportant des exercices 
d’intensité modérée à élevée, 30 minutes par jour au moins 5 jours par semaine. 
Les bénéfices sont d’autant plus importants que l’activité physique est débutée 
précocement. Les professionnels de santé ont un rôle important à jouer dans 
l’engagement des patients dans la mise en pratique de l’activité physique, sans 
programmation trop rigide, avec une pratique régulière même de faible niveau 
constituant toujours un acquis par rapport à l’état sédentaire.

PMID: 31626503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Am J Audiol. 2019 Dec 16;28(4):1015-1024. doi: 10.1044/2019_AJA-19-0026.
Epub  2019 Oct 17.

Evidence for an Association Between Hearing Impairment and Disrupted Sleep: 
Scoping Review.

Clarke NA(1)(2), Hoare DJ(1)(2), Killan EC(3).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Health Research Nottingham Biomedical Research Centre, 
of Nottingham, United Kingdom.
(2)Hearing Sciences, Division of Clinical Neuroscience, School of Medicine, 
University of Nottingham, Nottingham, United Kingdom.
(3)Audiological Science and Education Group, Leeds Institute of Cardiovascular 
and Metabolic Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of Leeds, 
United Kingdom.

Purpose Hearing impairment (HI) is the most common sensory impairment and may 
negatively impact sleep through reduced auditory input. Factors associated with 
HI such as anxiety regarding communication in daily life may also adversely 
impact an individual's sleep. Here, research on the relationship between HI and 
sleep disruption was catalogued using scoping review methodology. Method A 
systematic strategy was employed to search various electronic databases. This 
review is reported according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic 
Review and Meta-Analyses Scoping Review Extension. Results Sixteen records met 
inclusion criteria. Studies have investigated sleep in HI as a primary aim in 
noise-exposed workers or large surveys in older participants. Experimental and 
quasi-experimental studies report alterations to sleep architecture of potential 
neuroplastic origins. Studies reporting sleep as a secondary aim generally 
report poorer sleep in HI participants. Conclusions This scoping review has 
catalogued evidence that altered or negatively impacted sleep may be associated 
with HI. Potential confounding factors, mechanisms, and considerations for 
future research are discussed. Supplemental Material 
https://doi.org/10.23641/asha.9968369.

DOI: 10.1044/2019_AJA-19-0026
PMCID: PMC7210437
PMID: 31626556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2020 Jan;70(1):13-20. doi: 10.1111/lam.13236. Epub 2019
Nov  8.

A case of 'blown pack' spoilage of vacuum-packaged pork likely associated with 
Clostridium estertheticum in Canada.

Zhang P(1), Ward P(2), McMullen LM(2), Yang X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Lacombe, AB, Canada.
(2)Department of Agricultural, Food and Nutritional Science, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.

This study investigated the potential causative agents for vacuum-packaged pork 
that had shown gross package extension during a routine storage life study in a 
Canadian pork plant using both conventional and culture-independent methods. The 
spoilage-associated bacteria in purge samples from two packages were enumerated 
using selective media and profiled using 16S rDNA amplicon analysis. The 
presence of Clostridium estertheticum was detected using species-specific 
real-time PCR. An enrichment procedure was used to isolate C. estertheticum from 
one of the purge samples. The average population density in the two purge 
samples of total aerobes, lactic acid bacteria (LAB), coliforms and Brochothrix 
thermosphacta was 9·4, 9·1, 6·0 and 4·6 log CFU per ml respectively, as 
determined by plating. The estimated numbers of C. estertheticum were >7 log 
cells per ml. Clostridium estertheticum was recovered although the enrichment 
condition used for isolation favoured the growth of LAB more than that of 
Clostridium spp. Based on 16S rDNA amplicon analysis, the microbiota in the two 
purge samples had 64·7 and 20·7% of Clostridium spp., and 32·5 and 70·1% of LAB 
respectively. SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: Blown pack spoilage of 
vacuum-packaged meat may lead to severe economic losses and is often associated 
with beef, venison and lamb. This study is the first to report vacuum-packaged 
chilled pork can also be subject to blown pack spoilage, and data support the 
conclusion that the causative agent is likely Clostridium estertheticum. The 
lysozyme-digestion step greatly improved the isolation efficiency for C. 
estertheticum, a spore-forming anaerobic organism that has been proven to be 
difficult to recover. This method can be used for isolating spore-forming 
organisms from food samples.

© 2019 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/lam.13236
PMID: 31627244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Insects. 2019 Oct 17;10(10):351. doi: 10.3390/insects10100351.

Cold Tolerance and Population Dynamics of Leptoglossus zonatus (Hemiptera: 
Coreidae).

Tollerup KE(1).

Author information:
(1)University of California, Agriculture and Natural Resources, Kearney 
Agricultural Research and Extension Center, Parlier, CA 93648, USA. 
ketollerup@ucanr.edu.

In California's San Joaquin Valley, feeding by the coreid pest, Leptoglossus 
zonatus, can cause considerable economic loss on almond and pistachio. This 
research was conducted to improve understanding of how winter temperatures 
affect mortality of overwintering adult L. zonatus and to develop a better 
understanding of the role pomegranate plays in the species' life-history. We 
exposed 7410 field-collected adult L. zonatus to temperatures between -2 and -10 
°C for a period of three, four, or six hours using insect incubators. At six 
hours of exposure, the, LD50 and LD95 occur at -5.8 and -9.7 °C, respectively. 
We classified L. zonatus as chill-intolerant. Temperatures cold enough to affect 
substantial mortality of overwintering L. zonatus rarely occur in the San 
Joaquin Valley. Whole aggregation destructive sampling from a pomegranate 
hedgerow in Fresno County was conducted to determine population dynamics. At 
late summer to early fall, aggregations consisted of >90% immature stages. By 
early to mid-winter, mean aggregation size decreased, consisting of only three 
to 12 late-instars and adults. During years one and two of the experiment, L. 
zonatus produced a generation on pomegranate, mostly between September and 
mid-November. Overwintering did not occur on pomegranate, rather the majority of 
adults emigrated to other overwintering locations by mid-winter.

DOI: 10.3390/insects10100351
PMCID: PMC6836135
PMID: 31627302

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


763. Probl Endokrinol (Mosk). 2005 Dec 15;51(6):50-53. doi: 
10.14341/probl200551650-53.

[Polineoplasia: thyroid cancer and breast cancer: incidence, causes, mechanisms 
of development].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Zotov AS(1).

Author information:
(1)National Medical University.

The dramatic situation with the incidence and mortality from breast cancer that 
has developed in the last decades of the past century in the industrialized 
countries of the world has given this disease the status of not only a medical, 
but also a social problem. The society reacted to this adequately: a number of 
measures taken for anti-cancer propaganda, early diagnosis, development and 
widespread use of effective methods of treatment allowed us to reverse the 
unfavorable trend in mortality while recognizing the limited possibilities of 
modern medicine in preventing breast cancer. World trends in increasing life 
expectancy after curing breast cancer have led to an increase in the number of 
patients subsequently ill with a second malignant tumor. The attention of 
researchers is attracted by the combination of breast cancer and thyroid cancer.

Publisher: Драматическая ситуация с заболеваемостью и смертностью от рака 
молочной железы (РМЖ), сложившаяся в последние десятилетия минувшего века в 
индустриально развитых странах мира, придала этому заболеванию статус не только 
медицинской, но и социальной проблемы. Общество реагировало на это адекватно: 
ряд предпринятых мер по противораковой пропаганде, ранней диагностике, 
разработке и широкому применению эффективных методов лечения позволил переломить 
неблагоприятную тенденцию в смертности при одновременном признании 
ограниченности возможностей современной медицины в предотвращении РМЖ. Мировые 
тенденции к повышению продолжительности жизни после излечения РМЖ привели к 
росту числа пациенток, заболевших впоследствии второй злокачественной опухолью. 
Пристальное внимание исследователей привлекает сочетание РМЖ и рака щитовидной 
железы (РЩЖ).

DOI: 10.14341/probl200551650-53
PMID: 31627501


764. Probl Endokrinol (Mosk). 2007 Aug 15;53(4):37-41. doi: 
10.14341/probl200753437-41.

[Russian consensus on the diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring of acromegalia 
(draft)].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Molitvoslovova NN(1), Rozhinskaya LY(1), Melnichenko GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology Research Centre.

Acromegaly is a serious disease of the hypothalamic-pituitary system, caused by 
chronic overproduction of growth hormone (GH) in individuals with completed 
physiological growth, affecting mainly people of working age. The disease is 
characterized by significant disability of patients and a reduction in life 
expectancy, the main reasons for which are complications caused by prolonged 
hypersecretion of GH. These include primarily damage to the cardiovascular 
system, respiratory system, metabolic disorders, malignant neoplasms of the 
gastrointestinal tract. At the same time, timely diagnosis and adequate 
treatment can reduce mortality several times, significantly improve the quality 
of life of patients.Until now, the problem of optimizing the diagnosis of 
acromegaly, especially the so-called "soft" form, as well as the choice of the 
most effective and safe treatment method, is relevant all over the world and in 
our country in particular.At the V Russian Congress of Endocrinology, a draft 
consensus on the management of patients with acromegaly was discussed. Subject 
to the provisions of the international agreement and Russian experience, 
recommendations are offered for the diagnosis, treatment and monitoring of this 
disease for further discussion, followed by the adoption of a final consensus.

Publisher: Акромегалия — тяжелое заболевание гипотала- мо-гипофизарной системы, 
обусловленное хронической гиперпродукцией гормона роста (СТГ) у лиц с 
завершенным физиологическим ростом, поражающее в основном людей трудоспособного 
возраста. Заболевание характеризуется значительной инвалидизацией пациентов и 
сокращением продолжительности жизни, главными причинами которых являются 
осложнения, обусловленные длительной гиперсекрецией СТГ. К ним относятся в 
первую очередь поражение сердечно-сосудистой системы, органов дыхания, 
метаболические нарушения, злокачественные новообразования желудочно-кишечного 
тракта. В то же время своевременная диагностика и адекватное лечение позволяют в 
несколько раз сократить смертность, значительно улучшить качество жизни 
пациентов. До сих пор проблема оптимизации диагностики акромегалии, особенно так 
называемой "мягкой" формы, а также выбора максимально эффективного и безопасного 
метода лечения является актуальной во всем мире и в нашей стране в частности. На 
V Всероссийском конгрессе по эндокринологии обсуждался проект консенсуса по 
ведению пациентов с акромегалией. С учетом положений международного соглашения и 
российского опыта предлагаются рекомендации по диагностике, лечению и 
мониторингу данного заболевания для дальнейшего обсуждения с последующим 
принятием окончательного консенсуса.

DOI: 10.14341/probl200753437-41
PMID: 31627523


765. Probl Endokrinol (Mosk). 2005 Apr 15;51(2):38-45. doi: 
10.14341/probl200551238-45.

[Drug therapy for acromegaly].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Vaks VV(1).

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology Research Centre.

Acromegaly is a severe disease caused by excessive secretion of growth hormone 
(GH), usually a pituitary tumor (98%), which in turn leads to a significant 
increase in the production of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) by the liver, 
which mainly determines the tissue effect of GH.The larger the size of the 
tumor, the more it produces GH and the less likely it is to achieve adequate 
control of hormonal secretion. Large tumors that extend beyond the sella turcica 
are found in 70-80% of patients with acromegaly and present the greatest 
difficulties for successful treatment.Increased secretion of GH and IGF-1 gives 
adverse systemic, metabolic and, possibly, neoplastic effects, which reduces the 
life expectancy of patients with acromegaly and increases the mortality rate by 
2-3 times.

Publisher: Акромегалия — тяжелое заболевание, обусловленное избыточной секрецией 
соматотропного гормона (СТГ), как правило, опухолью гипофиза (98%), что в свою 
очередь приводит к значительному повышению продукции печенью инсулиноподобного 
фактора роста 1 (ИРФ-1), который в основном обусловливает тканевое действие СТГ. 
Чем больше размер опухоли, тем больше она продуцирует СТГ и тем меньше 
вероятность достижения адекватного контроля над гормональной секрецией. Опухоли 
больших размеров, распространяющиеся за пределы турецкого седла, встречаются у 
70—80% больных акромегалией и представляют наибольшие трудности для успешного 
лечения. Повышенная секреция СТГ и ИРФ-1 дает неблагоприятные системные, 
метаболические и, возможно, неопластические эффекты, что уменьшает 
продолжительность жизни больных акромегалией и повышает уровень смертности в 2—3 
раза.

DOI: 10.14341/probl200551238-45
PMID: 31627555


766. Probl Endokrinol (Mosk). 2007 Feb 15;53(1):24-26. doi: 
10.14341/probl200753124-26.

[Adipocytic apoptosis and progressive obesity in children].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Oorzhak US(1), Taranushenko TY(1), Salmina АВ(1), Panfllova VN(1), Mikhutkina 
SV(1).

Author information:
(1)Krasnoyarsk State Medical Academy.

Obesity is one of the urgent problems of modern health care. In the 21st 
century, obesity, one of the most common chronic diseases, takes on the 
character of a global epidemic, covering almost all countries and peoples of the 
world. WHO experts suggest that the number of people with obesity by 2005 
compared with 2000 will increase by almost 2 times and amount to more than 300 
million people. Every year, the situation is getting worse, obesity is getting 
younger, it becomes a problem not only for adults, but for children and 
adolescents. Currently, in developed countries, up to 20% of adolescents are 
overweight, and 15% are obese. In the Russian Federation, 5.5% of children 
living in rural areas and 8.5% of children in urban areas are obese. Obesity is 
a social problem, as it leads to early disability and reduces the average life 
expectancy. Finally, obesity accompanies diseases such as type 2 diabetes, 
hypertension, dyslipidemia, coronary heart disease, as well as insulin 
resistance and hyperinsulinemia.

Publisher: Ожирение является одной из актуальных проблем современного 
здравоохранения. В XXI столетии ожирение, относящееся к числу наиболее 
распространенных хронических заболеваний, принимает характер глобальной 
эпидемии, охватывающей практически все страны и народы мира. Эксперты ВОЗ 
предполагают, что количество лиц с ожирением к 2005 г. по сравнению с 2000 г. 
увеличится почти в 2 раза и составит более 300 млн человек. С каждым годом 
ситуация ухудшается, ожирение "молодеет", становится проблемой не только 
взрослых, но детей и подростков. В настоящее время в развитых странах мира до 
20% подростков имеют избыточную массу тела, а 15% страдают ожирением. В 
Российской Федерации ожирение имеют 5,5% детей, проживающих в сельской 
местности, и 8,5% детей — в городской. Ожирение является социальной проблемой, 
так как приводит к ранней инвалидизации и сокращает среднюю предполагаемую 
продолжительность жизни. Наконец, ожирение сопровождает такие заболевания, как 
сахарный диабет 2-го типа, артериальная гипертензия, дислипидемия, ишемическая 
болезнь сердца, а также инсулинорезистентность и гиперинсулинемия.

DOI: 10.14341/probl200753124-26
PMID: 31627626


767. J Formos Med Assoc. 2020 Jan;119(1 Pt 1):1-2. doi:
10.1016/j.jfma.2019.09.009.  Epub 2019 Oct 16.

Methodological and ethical criticisms of the China global burden of disease 
studies.

Chiu YC(1), Lin YH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, MacKay Memorial Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan. 
Electronic address: tonychiupsy@gmail.com.
(2)Institute of Population Health Sciences, National Health Research Institutes, 
Miaoli, Taiwan; Institute of Health Behaviors and Community Sciences, College of 
Public Health, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
yuhsuanlin@nhri.edu.tw.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfma.2019.09.009
PMID: 31627982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2020 Nov 13;75(10):2112-2121. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbz133.

Contrasting the Effects of Mortality Salience and Future Time Limitation on Goal 
Prioritization in Older and Younger Adults.

Fung HH(1), Chu ST(1), Jiang D(2), Chen AX(1), Ng CC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, New 
Territories.
(2)Department of Special Education and Counselling, Education University of Hong 
Kong, New Territories.

OBJECTIVES: This study aims at contrasting the effects of limited future time 
perspective and mortality salience on goal prioritization across adulthood. 
Socioemotional selectivity theory (SST) argues that people increasingly 
prioritize emotionally meaningful goals when they perceive future time as more 
limited. Terror management theory (TMT) suggests that mortality salience (i.e., 
the awareness of one's mortality) drives people to prioritize the goal of 
perpetuating own existence through affirming cultural worldview.
METHOD: In this study, participants (N = 438) were randomly assigned to six 
conditions that primed (a) limited future time, (b) mortality salience, (c) 
death reflection, (d) both limited future time and mortality salience, (e) both 
limited future time, and death reflection, or (f) none.
RESULTS: Results showed that older adults allocated significantly more resources 
to emotionally close recipients who supported their cultural worldviews in 
conditions involving future time limitation and death reflection. They also 
allocated less resources to emotionally not close recipients who did not support 
their cultural worldviews in conditions involving future time limitation. 
Younger adults did not show these differences. Nor did mortality salience have 
any effect.
DISCUSSION: These results suggest that future time perspective and death 
reflection shift age-related goals more than mortality salience.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbz133
PMID: 31628456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Intern Emerg Med. 2020 Jun;15(4):531-535. doi: 10.1007/s11739-019-02207-z.
Epub  2019 Oct 18.

Cardiometabolic risk in Algeria: past and present.

Mammeri A(1)(2)(3), Tebaibia A(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, El Biar Hospital, Algiers, Algeria. 
amel.mammeri@yahoo.fr.
(2)Algerian Society of Internal Medicine, Algiers, Algeria. 
amel.mammeri@yahoo.fr.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, University of Algiers1, Algiers, Algeria. 
amel.mammeri@yahoo.fr.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, El Biar Hospital, Algiers, Algeria.
(5)Algerian Society of Internal Medicine, Algiers, Algeria.
(6)Faculty of Medicine, University of Algiers1, Algiers, Algeria.

Algeria, like all emerging countries, has been going through a health transition 
over the past 30 years or so, characterized by a drop in mortality rates, an 
increase in life expectancy and a change in the causes of death in favor of 
chronic non-communicable diseases. In the past, the country mainly faced 
infectious diseases such as typhoid, cholera and malaria. The prevalence of the 
latter has been significantly reduced thanks to the many social health and 
vaccination programs undertaken by the health authorities. As a result of this 
epidemiological transition, we are witnessing a growing increase in the 
incidence of non-communicable diseases, mainly represented by cardiovascular 
diseases, diabetes, obesity and cancer. According to the results of the latest 
national survey on the measurement of risk factors for non-communicable diseases 
(the Who StepWise approach), the prevalence of diabetes is close to 14.4% while 
the rate of obesity and overweight exceeds 50% of the population. High blood 
pressure has reached a prevalence rate of 23.6%. These diseases represent a real 
threat to our country's health, social and economic situation; they will lead to 
greater demands on health facilities and require more resources for 
intervention.

DOI: 10.1007/s11739-019-02207-z
PMID: 31628581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. World Neurosurg. 2020 Feb;134:e272-e276. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2019.10.040.
Epub  2019 Oct 16.

Complications and Mortality in Octogenarians Undergoing Lumbopelvic Fixation.

von Glinski A(1), Elia C(2), Ansari D(3), Yilmaz E(4), Takayanagi A(5), Norvell 
DC(6), Pierre CA(3), Abdul-Jabbar A(3), Chapman JR(7), Oskouian RJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Swedish Neuroscience Institute, Swedish Medical Center, Seattle, Washington, 
USA; Hansjörg Wyss Hip and Pelvic Center, Swedish Medical Center, Seattle, 
Washington, USA; Seattle Science Foundation, Seattle, Washington, USA; 
Department of Trauma Surgery, BG University Hospital Bergmannsheil, Ruhr 
University Bochum, Bochum, Germany. Electronic address: 
AlexvonGlinski@gmail.com.
(2)Swedish Neuroscience Institute, Swedish Medical Center, Seattle, Washington, 
USA; Seattle Science Foundation, Seattle, Washington, USA; Department of 
Neurosurgery, Riverside University Health Systems, Moreno Valley, California, 
USA.
(3)Swedish Neuroscience Institute, Swedish Medical Center, Seattle, Washington, 
USA; Seattle Science Foundation, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(4)Swedish Neuroscience Institute, Swedish Medical Center, Seattle, Washington, 
USA; Department of Trauma Surgery, BG University Hospital Bergmannsheil, Ruhr 
University Bochum, Bochum, Germany.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Riverside University Health Systems, Moreno 
Valley, California, USA.
(6)Spectrum Research, Inc., Tacoma, Washington, USA.
(7)Swedish Neuroscience Institute, Swedish Medical Center, Seattle, Washington, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Advancements in modern medicine have led to longer life expectancy. 
Literature on spinopelvic fixation in elderly patients is limited. We 
investigated morbidity and mortality in octogenarians who underwent spinopelvic 
fixation.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review was conducted of patients who underwent 
spinopelvic fixation from January 2014 through December 2018 at a single 
institution. Patients were grouped into the octogenarian group (OG), 80-89 years 
old, and comparison group (CG), 40-50 years old. Demographics; pathology; 
Charlson Comorbidity Index; Hounsfield units; surgery details; and clinical data 
including complications, intensive care unit and length of hospital stay, and 
mortality were collected and compared.
RESULTS: Inclusion criteria were met by 26 patients (OG: n = 14; CG: n = 12). 
Diagnoses in the OG were deformity (42.9%), pseudarthrosis (35.7%), fracture 
(7.1%), infection (7.1%), and tumor (7.1%). The only significant differences in 
baseline patient characteristics were that Charlson Comorbidity Index was 
significantly higher in the OG (6.0 ± 1.4) compared with the CG (1.1 ± 1.0) (P < 
0.001) and the OG had lower Hounsfield units (P < 0.001), indicating poorer bone 
quality. More patients in the CG underwent staged and anterior approaches 
compared with the OG (P = 0.031). Major and minor complication rates were 57.1% 
and 42.9%, respectively, in the OG (P = 0.98) and 25% and 25% in the CG (P = 
0.34). Mortality rate was 14.3%.
CONCLUSIONS: With an aging population, the number of patients requiring 
spinopelvic fixation will continue to grow. Spine surgeons must carefully weigh 
benefits and risks in patients with multiple comorbidities.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2019.10.040
PMID: 31629134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Curr Opin Biotechnol. 2020 Aug;64:32-38. doi: 10.1016/j.copbio.2019.09.010.
Epub  2019 Oct 16.

Biological insights into non-model microbial hosts through stable-isotope 
metabolic flux analysis.

Nie X(1), Hua Q(2), Xu P(3), Yang C(4).

Author information:
(1)CAS-Key Laboratory of Synthetic Biology, CAS Center for Excellence in 
Molecular Plant Sciences, Shanghai Institute of Plant Physiology and Ecology, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, East China University of 
Science and Technology, Shanghai, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism and School of Life Sciences and 
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.
(4)CAS-Key Laboratory of Synthetic Biology, CAS Center for Excellence in 
Molecular Plant Sciences, Shanghai Institute of Plant Physiology and Ecology, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: 
chenyang@sibs.ac.cn.

Stable-isotope metabolic flux analysis is an important approach to unravel the 
metabolic network and its regulation in organisms. It has become a key 
analytical technology for biotechnological applications. During recent years 
non-model microorganisms have received increasing attention because they possess 
unique metabolic capabilities and can serve as a host for production of biofuels 
and biochemicals. Stable-isotope metabolic flux analysis has been widely used in 
these microorganisms for exploring novel pathways, elucidating the operation of 
central metabolic networks, and revealing the metabolic changes that result from 
genetic manipulations. Here, we review recent applications of stable-isotope 
metabolic flux analysis in characterizing non-model microbial hosts, guiding the 
development of rational engineering strategies for enhancement of biochemical 
production and extension of substrate range, and understanding of industrial 
production processes.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.copbio.2019.09.010
PMID: 31629213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. J Chromatogr A. 2020 Jan 25;1611:460608. doi: 10.1016/j.chroma.2019.460608.
Epub  2019 Oct 9.

Adsorption of colloidal proteins in ion-exchange chromatography under 
consideration of charge regulation.

Briskot T(1), Hahn T(2), Huuk T(2), Hubbuch J(3).

Author information:
(1)GoSilico GmbH, Kaiserstraße 183, Karlsruhe 76133, Germany; Institute of 
Engineering in Life Sciences, Section IV: Biomolecular Separation Engineering, 
Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), Fritz-Haber-Weg 2, Karlsruhe 76131, 
Germany.
(2)GoSilico GmbH, Kaiserstraße 183, Karlsruhe 76133, Germany.
(3)Institute of Engineering in Life Sciences, Section IV: Biomolecular 
Separation Engineering, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), Fritz-Haber-Weg 
2, Karlsruhe 76131, Germany. Electronic address: juergen.hubbuch@kit.edu.

Mechanistic modeling of protein adsorption has gained increasing importance in 
the development of ion-exchange (IEX) chromatography processes. The most common 
adsorption models use a stoichiometric representation of the adsorption process 
based on the law of mass action. Despite the importance of these models in 
model-based development, the stoichiometric representation of the adsorption 
process is not accurate for the description of long-range electrostatic 
interactions in IEX chromatography, limiting the application and mechanistic 
extension of these models. In this work an adsorption model is introduced 
describing the non-stoichiometric electrostatic interaction in IEX 
chromatography based on the linear Poisson-Boltzmann equation and a simplified 
colloidal representation of the protein. In contrast to most recent 
non-stoichiometric models, the introduced model accounts for charge regulation 
during the adsorption process. Its capability of describing the adsorption 
equilibrium is demonstrated by simulating partitioning coefficients of multiple 
proteins on different adsorber systems as a function of ionic strength and pH. 
Despite model simplifications the physical meaning and predictive value of the 
model could be preserved. By transferring model parameters of a monoclonal 
antibody (mAb) from one adsorber system to another, it could be demonstrated 
that protein parameters are theoretically not only valid on a specific adsorber 
system but freely transferable to other adsorbers. The predictive value of the 
mechanistic model on the new adsorber system was highlighted by predicting the 
elution behavior of charge variants of the mAb.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chroma.2019.460608
PMID: 31629491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. World Neurosurg. 2020 Feb;134:e277-e288. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2019.10.039.
Epub  2019 Oct 17.

Outcome of Endoscopic Endonasal Surgery in Pediatric Craniopharyngiomas.

Mazzatenta D(1), Zoli M(2), Guaraldi F(1), Ambrosi F(3), Faustini Fustini M(4), 
Pasquini E(5), Asioli S(3), Zucchelli M(6).

Author information:
(1)Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Pituitary and Skull Base Tumors 
(Pituitary Unit), IRCCS Istituto delle Scienze Neurologiche di Bologna, Bologna, 
Italy; Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy.
(2)Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Pituitary and Skull Base Tumors 
(Pituitary Unit), IRCCS Istituto delle Scienze Neurologiche di Bologna, Bologna, 
Italy; Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy. Electronic address: matteo.zoli4@unibo.it.
(3)Department of Biomedical and Neuromuscular Sciences, Section of Anatomic 
Pathology "M. Malpighi" at Bellaria Hospital, University of Bologna, Bologna, 
Italy.
(4)Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Pituitary and Skull Base Tumors 
(Pituitary Unit), IRCCS Istituto delle Scienze Neurologiche di Bologna, Bologna, 
Italy.
(5)Department of Ear Nose and Throat Diseases, Bellaria Hospital, Bologna, 
Italy.
(6)Division of Pediatric Neurosurgery, Department of Neurosurgery, Bellaria 
Hospital, Bologna, Italy.

BACKGROUND: In the last years, few reports have shown the feasibility of the 
endoscopic endonasal approach (EEA) for craniopharyngiomas in pediatric 
patients. For these tumors, recent studies have suggested less aggressive 
surgery, favoring the preservation of the patient's quality of life.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the outcome of the EEA in a large 
series with specific attention on the long-term functional sequelae.
MATERIALS: All consecutive pediatric craniopharyngiomas operated on through this 
approach since 2000 were included in the study. Preoperative and postoperative 
operative clinical, radiologic, and pathologic features were retrieved from 
patient records (mean follow-up, 72 ± 67 months).
RESULTS: The series included 25 patients (12 female; mean age, 8.9 ± 4.1 years). 
Most of the tumors presented with a supradiaphragmatic extension (88%). Removal 
was radical in 23 patients (92%). Complications consisted of 6 cerebrospinal 
fluid leaks (24%). One patient (4%) died of postoperative respiratory 
complications. Most patients (92%) developed panhypopituitarism and visual 
disturbances normalized or improved in 6 patients (43%). At follow-up, 9 
patients (36%) were overweight/obese (6 were already overweight before surgery). 
The tumor recurrence rate was 19%.
CONCLUSIONS: EEA can be an effective approach for midline craniopharyngiomas in 
children older than 3 years. It gives a satisfactory exposure of the suprasellar 
region and an adequate assessment of the brain-tumor interface. Its main 
limitations are age-related anatomic features of nasal/paranasal sinuses and the 
risk of cerebrospinal fluid leak.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2019.10.039
PMID: 31629927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. J Crohns Colitis. 2020 May 21;14(4):490-500. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjz169.

Evaluating the Cost-Effectiveness of Early Compared with Late or No Biologic 
Treatment to Manage Crohn's Disease using Real-World Data.

Pillai N(1), Lupatsch JE(2), Dusheiko M(1)(3), Schwenkglenks M(2), Maillard 
M(4)(5), Sutherland CS(2), Pittet VEH(1); Swiss IBD Cohort Study group.

Collaborators: Anderegg C, Bauerfeind P, Beglinger C, Begré S, Belli D, Bengoa 
JM, Biedermann L, Bigler B, Binek J, Blattmann M, Boehm S, Borovicka J, Braegger 
CP, Brunner N, Bühr P, Burnand B, Burri E, Buyse S, Cremer M, Criblez DH, de 
Saussure P, Degen L, Delarive J, Doerig C, Dora B, Dorta G, Egger M, Ehmann T, 
El-Wafa A, Engelmann M, Ezri J, Felley C, Fliegner M, Fournier N, Fraga M, Frei 
P, Frei R, Fried M, Froehlich F, Funk C, Furlano RI, Gallot-Lavallée S, Geyer M, 
Girardin M, Golay D, Grandinetti T, Gysi B, Haack H, Haarer J, Helbling B, 
Hengstler P, Herzog D, Hess C, Heyland K, Hinterleitner T, Hiroz P, Hirschi C, 
Hruz P, Iwata R, Jost R, Juillerat P, Keller C, Knellwolf C, Knoblauch C, Köhler 
H, Koller R, Krieger-Grübel C, Kullak-Ublick G, Künzler P, Landolt M, Lange R, 
Lehmann FS, Macpherson A, Maerten P, Maillard MH, Manser C, Manz M, Marbet U, 
Marx G, Matter C, Meier R, Mendanova M, Michetti P, Misselwitz B, Morell B, 
Mosler P, Mottet C, Müller C, Müller P, Müllhaupt B, Münger-Beyeler C, Musso L, 
Nagy A, Neagu M, Nichita C, Niess J, Nydegger A, Obialo N, Oneta C, Oropesa C, 
Peter U, Peternac D, Petit LM, Piccoli-Gfeller F, Pilz JB, Pittet V, Raschle N, 
Rentsch R, Restellini S, Richterich JP, Rihs S, Ritz MA, Roduit J, Rogler D, 
Rogler G, Rossel JB, Rueger V, Saner G, Sauter B, Sawatzki M, Schäppi M, Scharl 
M, Scharl S, Schelling M, Schibli S, Schlauri H, Uebelhart SS, Schnegg JF, 
Schoepfer A, Seibold F, Seirafi M, Semadeni GM, Semela D, Senning A, Sidler M, 
Sokollik C, Spalinger J, Spangenberger H, Stadler P, Steuerwald M, Straumann A, 
Straumann-Funk B, Sulz M, Suter A, Thorens J, Tiedemann S, Tutuian R, Vavricka 
S, Viani F, Vögtlin J, Von Känel R, Vonlaufen A, Vouillamoz D, Vulliamy R, 
Wermuth J, Werner H, Wiesel P, Wiest R, Wylie T, Zeitz J, Zimmermann D.

Author information:
(1)Center for Primary Care and Public Health [Unisanté], University of Lausanne, 
Lausanne, Switzerland.
(2)Institute of Pharmaceutical Medicine [ECPM], University of Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland.
(3)Faculty of Business and Economics [HEC], University of Lausanne, Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
(4)Crohn and Colitis Center, Gastroentérologie Beaulieu SA, Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
(5)Service of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Lausanne University Hospital, 
Lausanne, Switzerland.

Comment in
    J Crohns Colitis. 2020 Jun 19;14(5):573-574.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of early [≤2 years 
after diagnosis] compared with late or no biologic initiation [starting 
biologics >2 years after diagnosis or no biologic use] for adults with Crohn's 
disease in Switzerland.
METHODS: We developed a Markov cohort model over the patient's lifetime, from 
the health system and societal perspectives. Transition probabilities, quality 
of life, and costs were estimated using real-world data. Propensity score 
matching was used to ensure comparability between patients in the early 
[intervention] and late/no [comparator] biologic initiation strategies. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio [ICER] per quality-adjusted life year 
[QALY] gained is reported in Swiss francs [CHF]. Sensitivity and scenario 
analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Total costs and QALYs were higher for the intervention [CHF384 607; 
16.84 QALYs] compared with the comparator [CHF340 800; 16.75 QALYs] strategy, 
resulting in high ICERs [health system: CHF887 450 per QALY; societal: 
CHF449 130 per QALY]. In probabilistic sensitivity analysis, assuming a 
threshold of CHF100 000 per QALY, the probability that the intervention strategy 
was cost-effective was 0.1 and 0.25 from the health system and societal 
perspectives, respectively. In addition, ICERs improved when we assumed a 30% 
reduction in biologic prices [health system: CHF134 502 per QALY; societal: 
intervention dominant].
CONCLUSIONS: Early biologic use was not cost-effective, considering a threshold 
of CHF100 000 per QALY compared with late/no biologic use. However, early 
identification of patients likely to need biologics and future drug price 
reductions through increased availability of biosimilars may improve the 
cost-effectiveness of an early treatment approach.

Copyright © 2019 European Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation (ECCO). Published by 
Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjz169
PMID: 31630164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. J Biol Regul Homeost Agents. 2019 Sep-Oct;33(5 Suppl. 1):79-85. Special
Issue:  Focus on Pediatric Nephrology.

Cardiac dysfunction in children with essential obesity: preliminary data.

Arrigo T(1), Stroscio G(2), Impollonia D(3), Salvo V(4), Scuderi MG(5), Di 
Benedetto V(5), Betta P(6), Fusco M(7), Sallemi A(7), Fede C(7), Calabrò MP(8), 
Salpietro C(7), Chimenz R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Pathology in Adult and Developmental Age "Gaetano 
Barresi", Unit of Pediatric Nephrology and Rheumatology with Dialysis, 
University of Messina, Policlinico "G. Martino" Messina, Italy.
(2)Radiodiagnostic Unit C.O.T., Messina, Italy.
(3)Radiodiagnostic Unit A.S.P. 5, Messina, Italy.
(4)Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, Department of Human Pathology in Adult and 
Developmental Age "Gaetano Barresi", University of Messina, Italy.
(5)Department of Pediatric Surgery "Policlinico-Vittorio Emanuele" of Catania, 
Italy.
(6)Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, Policlinico-Vittorio Emanuele" of Catania, 
Italy.
(7)Department of Human Pathology in Adult and Developmental Age "Gaetano 
Barresi", Unit of Emergency Pediatrics, University of Messina, Policlinico "G. 
Martino" Messina, Italy.
(8)Department of Human Pathology in Adult and Developmental Age "Gaetano 
Barresi", Unit of Pediatric Cardiology, University of Messina, Policlinico 
"G.Martino"Messina, Italy.

Obesity in children has been recognized as a major underlying factor of the 
pathogenesis of several diseases and a reduced life expectancy. This study aims 
to verify if clinical parameters, such as waist circumference and/or body mass 
index and biohumoral and inflammatory parameters can help predict cardiac 
structural and functional alterations, through an echocardiogram test in obese 
children and adolescents. Children were prospectively enrolled at the AUOC 
outpatients' department of Emergency Paediatrics, University Hospital, Messina, 
from June to December 2017. Clinical, metabolic parameters and an inflammation 
marker (HMGB1) were evaluated and a transthoracic echocardiogram was carried 
out. Twenty-two obese subjects were prospectively enrolled.HMGB1 values were 
12.6 ± 2ng/ml, significantly higher compared to a previously studied healthy 
control group. A significant positive correlation was found both between total 
cholesterol levels and HMGB1 values (r=0.846, p=0.000) and between LDL 
cholesterol and HMBG1 values (r=0.663, p=0.001). No correlation was found 
between clinical, biohumoral and echocardiograph parameters. In obese children 
cardiac parameters obtained from echocardiogram tests may be in the normal 
range. However, other parameters may be altered in the early phase, showing that 
infantile obesity can compromise myocardial functions, even in the absence of 
comorbidities. Furthermore, the evaluation of concentrations of HMBG1 could 
explain how an initial inflammation can trigger the condition of 
meta-inflammation.

Copyright 2019 Biolife Sas. www.biolifesas.org.

PMID: 31630719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Lancet Public Health. 2019 Nov;4(11):e538. doi:
10.1016/S2468-2667(18)30223-8.  Epub 2019 Oct 17.

High ambitions for health equity in the Americas.

The Lancet Public Health.

DOI: 10.1016/S2468-2667(18)30223-8
PMID: 31630974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Pharmacoeconomics. 2020 Feb;38(2):171-179. doi: 10.1007/s40273-019-00848-8.

Influence of Modeling Choices on Value of Information Analysis: An Empirical 
Analysis from a Real-World Experiment.

Kim DD(1), Guzauskas GF(2), Bennette CS(3), Basu A(2), Veenstra DL(2), Ramsey 
SD(4), Carlson JJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for Clinical 
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, 800 Washington St., 
Box 63, Boston, MA, 02111, USA. dkim3@tuftsmedicalcenter.org.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(3)Flatiron Health, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Hutchinson Institute for Cancer Outcomes Research, Fred Hutchinson Cancer 
Research Center, Seattle, WA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Value of information (VOI) analysis often requires modeling to 
characterize and propagate uncertainty. In collaboration with a cancer clinical 
trial group, we integrated a VOI approach to assessing trial proposals.
OBJECTIVE: This paper aims to explore the impact of modeling choices on VOI 
results and to share lessons learned from the experience.
METHODS: After selecting two proposals (A: phase III, breast cancer; B: phase 
II, pancreatic cancer) for in-depth evaluations, we categorized key modeling 
choices relevant to trial decision makers (characterizing uncertainty of 
efficacy, evidence thresholds to change clinical practice, and sample size) and 
modelers (cycle length, survival distribution, simulation runs, and other 
choices). Using a $150,000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) threshold, we 
calculated the patient-level expected value of sample information (EVSI) for 
each proposal and examined whether each modeling choice led to relative change 
of more than 10% from the averaged base-case estimate. We separately analyzed 
the impact of the effective time horizon.
RESULTS: The base-case EVSI was $118,300 for Proposal A and $22,200 for Proposal 
B per patient. Characterizing uncertainty of efficacy was the most important 
choice in both proposals (e.g. Proposal A: $118,300 using historical data vs. 
$348,300 using expert survey), followed by the sample size and the choice of 
survival distribution. The assumed effective time horizon also had a substantial 
impact on the population-level EVSI.
CONCLUSIONS: Modeling choices can have a substantial impact on VOI. Therefore, 
it is important for groups working to incorporate VOI into research 
prioritization to adhere to best practices, be clear in their reporting and 
justification for modeling choices, and to work closely with the relevant 
decision makers, with particular attention to modeling choices.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-019-00848-8
PMID: 31631254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Pharmacoeconomics. 2020 Jan;38(1):109-119. doi: 10.1007/s40273-019-00847-9.

The Value of Shorter Initial Opioid Prescriptions: A Simulation Evaluation.

Bjarnadóttir MV(1), Anderson DR(2), Prasad K(3), Agarwal R(3), Nelson DA(4).

Author information:
(1)Robert H. Smith School of Business, Decision, Operations, and Information 
Technologies, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, USA. 
margret@rhsmith.umd.edu.
(2)School of Business, Management and Operations, Villanova University, 
Villanova, PA, USA.
(3)Robert H. Smith School of Business, Decision, Operations, and Information 
Technologies, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, USA.
(4)Division of Primary Care and Population Health, Department of Medicine, 
School of Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: During the period from 1999 to 2016, more than 350,000 Americans 
died from overdoses related to the use of prescription opioids. To the extent 
that supply is directly related to overprescribing, policy interventions aimed 
at changing prescriber behavior, such as the recent Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention guideline, are clearly warranted. Although these could plausibly 
reduce the prevalence of opioid overuse and dependency, little is known about 
their economic and health-related impacts.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to quantify the efficacy of a policy 
intervention aimed at reducing the length of initial opioid prescriptions.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: A Markov decision process model was fitted on a 
retrospective cohort of 827,265 patients, and patient cost and health 
trajectories were simulated over a 24-month period. The model's parameters were 
based on patients who received short (≤ 3 days) or long (> 7 days) initial 
opioid prescriptions, matched using propensity score methods.
STUDY POPULATION: All active-duty US Army soldiers from 2011 to 2014; the data 
contained detailed medical and administrative information on over 11 million 
soldier-months corresponding to 827,265 individual soldiers.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Overall costs of a policy change, quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) gained, and $/QALY gained.
RESULTS: Over a 2-year horizon, a reassignment of 10,000 patients to short 
initial duration would generate a cost saving in the vicinity of $3.1 million 
(excluding program costs), and would also lead to an estimated 4451 additional 
opioid-free months, i.e. months without any opioid prescriptions.
CONCLUSION: The analysis found that efforts to change prescriber behavior can be 
cost effective, and further studies into the implementation of such policies are 
warranted.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-019-00847-9
PMID: 31631255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

