France, we conducted an investigation 1) to update the number of hip surgeries 
in France, and 2) to forecast progression over the coming decades, considering 
extreme scenarios.
HYPOTHESIS: The number of hip procedures can be expected to increase 
considerably over the coming 50 years.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: A study was conducted to analyze national coding data for 
the number of hip surgeries performed in France. Two scenarios were defined: one 
taking account of population progression and age structure, the other also 
extrapolating trends observed over recent years. Current hip surgery activity in 
France was measured, and progression estimated according to population changes.
RESULTS: In 2018 in France, 183,139 procedures were coded as principally 
concerning the hip. There was a clear predominance of reconstruction procedures, 
with 148,965 primary hip replacements, 124,251 of which were total. There were 
19,304 hip replacement revision procedures. There were strong regional 
differences in revision according to the type of center performing surgery 
(p<0.0001). Between 2018 and 2050, primary hip replacement could be expected to 
increase by 41.9% or 114.3% and hip surgery overall by 42.0% or 98.3%, depending 
on the scenario.
DISCUSSION: The present results are subject to future technological 
breakthroughs and medical discoveries, but forecast a major increase in hip 
surgery requirements. These results extend the present state of medical 
knowledge.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: IV, descriptive epidemiological study.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otsr.2019.07.021
PMID: 31606338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2019 Oct 6;53(10):993-999. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-9624.2019.10.008.

[Cost-effective analysis of seasonal influenza vaccine in elderly Chinese 
population].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Chen C(1), Liu GE(1), Wang MJ(1), Gao TF(2), Jia HP(2), Yang H(2), Feng LZ(3).

Author information:
(1)National School of Development, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.
(2)China Center for Health Economic Research, Peking University, Beijing 100871, 
China.
(3)Division of Infectious Diseases, Chinese Center for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Beijing 102206, China.

Objective: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of seasonal influenza vaccination, 
compared to no vaccination, for the elderly aged ≥60 years old in China. 
Methods: A static life-time Markov model is conducted to simulate the Chinese 
elderly population aged ≥60 years old. Taking the health care system 
perspective, one-year analytic cycle length is used for each influenza season. 
The model was assumed to be repeated until the individual reaches 100 years old. 
Three interventions were evaluated, including no vaccination, annual trivalent 
influenza vaccination, and annual quadrivalent influenza vaccination. Using the 
threshold of 3 times GDP per capita per Quality-adjusted life year (QALY) (193 
932/QALY), the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was calculated to 
compare the cost-effectiveness of every two interventions.Model inputs like data 
for costs and utilities were from studies on Chinese population if they were 
available. QALY was used to measure health utility. One-way sensitivity analysis 
and probabilistic sensitivity analysis were adopted to quantify the level of 
confidence of the model output. Results: The total influenza associated costs of 
no vaccination would be 603 CNY per person, while the total costs of annual 
trivalent vaccination would be 1 027 CNY. Using trivalent vaccine would result 
in 0.007 QALY gained per person compared to no vaccination, with an increased 
cost of 424 CNY per person. The ICER of trivalent vaccination over no 
vaccination for all the elderly population in China would be 64 026 CNY per QALY 
gained, which was less than the threshold of 3 times GDP per capita. The total 
costs of annual quadrivalent vaccination would be 1 988 CNY. Using quadrivalent 
vaccine would result in 0.008 additional QALY gained per person compared to no 
vaccination, with an increased cost of 1 385 CNY per person. The ICER of 
quadrivalent vaccination over no vaccination would be 174 081 CNY per QALY 
gained, which was less than the threshold of 3 times GDP per capita. Conclusion: 
Vaccinating elderly population would improve health utilities at higher health 
care costs for the elderly. Using the threshold of 3 times GDP per capita per 
QALY (193 932/QALY), both trivalent and quadrivalent vaccination would be 
cost-effective compared to no vaccination in elderly Chinese population.

Publisher: 目的： 分析中国老人接种流感疫苗的成本效果。 方法： 
研究对象为中国60岁及以上的老人，采用静态马尔科夫模型，基于医疗保健系统角度，以1年为循环周期，研究时限到100岁，从成本和效果两个维度评价每年接种三价流感疫苗、四价流感疫苗以及不接种流感疫苗的终身成本和效果，并计算增量成本效果比（ICER），以3倍人均国内生产总值（GDP）（193 
932元/QALY）作为社会意愿支付1个QALY的阈值进行评价。成本和健康效用均来源于基于中国人群的临床试验或流感监测网络数据，效果用获得的质量调整寿命年（QALY）表示。通过单因素敏感性分析和概率敏感性分析明确参数的不确定性对结果的影响。 
结果： 不接种流感疫苗的人均医疗成本为603元，接种三价疫苗的人均医疗成本为1 
027元，相对于不接种疫苗，接种三价疫苗人均可获得0.007个QALY，增量成本为424元，增量成本效果比（ICER）是64 
026元/QALY，低于3倍人均GDP。接种四价疫苗的人均医疗成本为1 988元，相对于不接种流感疫苗，接种四价疫苗人均可获得0.008个QALY，增量成本为1 
385元，ICER值为174 081元/QALY，低于3倍人均GDP。 结论： 
接种三价流感和四价流感疫苗均比不接种流感疫苗给老人带来更高的健康效用，且均具有良好成本效果。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-9624.2019.10.008
PMID: 31607044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2019 Oct 6;53(10):1000-1006. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-9624.2019.10.009.

[Cost-effectiveness of potential government fully-funded influenza vaccination 
in population with diabetes in China].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Yang J(1), Yan H(1), Feng LZ(2), Yu HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health/Key Laboratory of Public Health Safety, Ministry of 
Education, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China.
(2)Division of Infectious Disease, Chinese Center for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Beijing 102206, China.

Objective: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of potential government 
fully-funded influenza vaccination for diabetics in our country. Methods: From 
the societal perspective, a decision tree model was developed to compare 
outcomes (including impact on the influenza-related outpatient consultation, 
hospitalization and excess mortality, and quality-adjusted life years (QALY), as 
well as incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER)) of a national fully-funded 
vaccination programme in the population with diabetes and status quo (i.e., 
vaccinated with out-of-pocket payment, with a uptake rate of zero), using the 
published data with regarding to influenza related ILI (influenza-like illness) 
consultation rate, hospitalization rate and excess mortality rate, 
health-related quality of life and economic burden, diabetes prevalence, 
population size, health seeking behaviour, vaccine uptake rate, vaccine 
efficacy/effectiveness, etc. A time horizon of 1 year was used in the present 
analysis, and all costs were expressed in CNY in 2016 using the consumer price 
index. All results are presented in M (P(25), P(75)). Results: In the scenario 
of 40% vaccination coverage in the population with diabetes, government 
fully-funded vaccination programme was estimated to cost 1.71 (1.67, 1.75) 
billions CNY, and expected to prevent 110 000 (81 000, 143 000) 
influenza-related ILI consultations, 36 000 (28 000, 44 000) influenza-related 
SARI hospitalizations and 12 000 (9 000, 16 000) influenza-related deaths due to 
respiratory and cardiovascular diseases. A total of 108 000 (82 000, 142 000) 
QALY were estimated to be gained. The ICER was 10 088 (7 365, 14 046) CNY per 
QALY gained. The probability of cost-effectiveness of the fully-funded 
vaccination programme was 99.1% at a threshold of 53 680 CNY per QALY gained 
(GDP per capita in 2016). Conclusion: Government fully-funded influenza 
vaccination in population with diabetes is cost-effective, and thus is 
recommended as the key strategy of diabetes prevention and control.

Publisher: 目的： 分析我国为糖尿病患者提供免费流感疫苗接种的成本效果。 方法： 
基于我国流感发病、住院和死亡负担、流感患者健康相关生命质量和经济负担、糖尿病患病情况、人口学特征、人群就医行为、疫苗接种率、疫苗效力等公开发表数据，构建决策树模型，测量与当前自费接种相比，为糖尿病患者提供免费流感疫苗接种对流感相关发病、住院和超额死亡，以及质量调整寿命年（QALY）的影响；并从全社会角度估计免费接种策略的增量成本效果比（ICER）。分析时间框为1年，所有成本均采用居民消费指数调整到2016年的价值（人民币），结果数据均采用M（P(25)，P(75)）表示。 
结果： 
为糖尿病患者提供免费流感疫苗接种，当接种率达到40%时，疫苗接种成本为17.1亿元（16.7亿元，17.5亿元）。与自费接种相比（假设接种率为0），流感相关流感样病例（ILI）门急诊例数减少11.0万（8.1万，14.3万），流感相关严重急性呼吸道感染住院例数减少3.6万（2.8万，4.4万），流感相关呼吸道和心血管疾病超额死亡例数减少1.2万（0.9万，1.6万），避免10.8万（8.2万，14.2万）QALY损失，ICER为10 
088元/QALY（7 365元/QALY，14 046元/QALY）。当支付意愿阈值采用我国2016年人均国内生产总值53 
680元时，为糖尿病患者提供免费流感疫苗接种具有成本效果的概率为99.1%。 结论： 
为糖尿病患者提供免费流感疫苗接种具有成本效果，建议将其作为糖尿病综合管理的重点。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-9624.2019.10.009
PMID: 31607045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Physiother Theory Pract. 2021 Sep;37(9):1043-1050. doi: 
10.1080/09593985.2019.1675206. Epub 2019 Oct 13.

Comparison of the electromyographic recruitment of the posterior oblique sling 
muscles during prone hip extension among three different shoulder positions.

Ha SM(1), Jeon IC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, College of Health Sciences, Sangji 
University, Wonju-si, Gangwon-do, Korea.
(2)Department of Physical Therapy, College of Life & Health Sciences, Hoseo 
University, Asan-si, Chungcheongnam-do, Korea.

Objective: We examined the effects of three different shoulder positions on the 
electromyography (EMG) activity of the posterior oblique sling and pelvic 
rotational angle during right prone hip extension (PHE).Methods: Fifteen healthy 
males (mean age, 25.4 ± 1.2 years) participated in this study. Three different 
left shoulder positions (0°, 90°, 125° of abduction) were assessed during right 
PHE. Surface EMG signals were recorded for the left latissimus dorsi, left 
middle trapezius, left lower trapezius, lumbar multifidus, right gluteus 
maximus, and right biceps femoris. An electromagnetic tracking motion analysis 
device was used to monitor compensatory pelvic rotation during right PHE. 
Significant differences in muscle activity and pelvic rotation angle among the 
three different shoulder abductions were assessed using one-way repeated 
measures analysis of variance and the Bonferroni post hoc test.Results: The 
bilateral multifidus and right gluteus maximus EMG amplitudes increased with 
increasing shoulder abduction angle during PHE (padj < 0.01). The degree of 
pelvic rotation during PHE decreased with increasing shoulder abduction angle 
(padj < 0.01).Conclusions: We found that PHE with 125° of left shoulder 
abduction increased the selective activation of lumbopelvic stabilizing muscles 
such as the multifidus and gluteus maximus.

DOI: 10.1080/09593985.2019.1675206
PMID: 31607200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. J Cardiovasc Magn Reson. 2019 Oct 14;21(1):63. doi:
10.1186/s12968-019-0572-1.

Decreased rotational flow and circumferential wall shear stress as early markers 
of descending aorta dilation in Marfan syndrome: a 4D flow CMR study.

Guala A(1), Teixido-Tura G(2), Dux-Santoy L(1), Granato C(1), Ruiz-Muñoz A(1), 
Valente F(1), Galian-Gay L(1), Gutiérrez L(1), González-Alujas T(1), Johnson 
KM(3), Wieben O(3), Sao Avilés A(1), Evangelista A(1), Rodriguez-Palomares J(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Department of Cardiology. CIBER-CV. Vall 
d'Hebron Institut de Recerca (VHIR), Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Paseo 
Vall d'Hebron 119-129, 08035, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Department of Cardiology. CIBER-CV. Vall 
d'Hebron Institut de Recerca (VHIR), Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Paseo 
Vall d'Hebron 119-129, 08035, Barcelona, Spain. gteixido@vhebron.net.
(3)Departments of Medical Physics & Radiology, University of Wisconsin - 
Madison, Madison, WI, USA.

BACKGROUND: Diseases of the descending aorta have emerged as a clinical issue in 
Marfan syndrome following improvements in proximal aorta surgical treatment and 
the consequent increase in life expectancy. Although a role for hemodynamic 
alterations in the etiology of descending aorta disease in Marfan patients has 
been suggested, whether flow characteristics may be useful as early markers 
remains to be determined.
METHODS: Seventy-five Marfan patients and 48 healthy subjects were prospectively 
enrolled. In- and through-plane vortexes were computed by 4D flow cardiovascular 
magnetic resonance (CMR) in the thoracic aorta through the quantification of 
in-plane rotational flow and systolic flow reversal ratio, respectively. 
Regional pulse wave velocity and axial and circumferential wall shear stress 
maps were also computed.
RESULTS: In-plane rotational flow and circumferential wall shear stress were 
reduced in Marfan patients in the distal ascending aorta and in proximal 
descending aorta, even in the 20 patients free of aortic dilation. Multivariate 
analysis showed reduced in-plane rotational flow to be independently related to 
descending aorta pulse wave velocity. Conversely, systolic flow reversal ratio 
and axial wall shear stress were altered in unselected Marfan patients but not 
in the subgroup without dilation. In multivariate regression analysis proximal 
descending aorta axial (p = 0.014) and circumferential (p = 0.034) wall shear 
stress were independently related to local diameter.
CONCLUSIONS: Reduced rotational flow is present in the aorta of Marfan patients 
even in the absence of dilation, is related to aortic stiffness and drives 
abnormal circumferential wall shear stress. Axial and circumferential wall shear 
stress are independently related to proximal descending aorta dilation beyond 
clinical factors. In-plane rotational flow and circumferential wall shear stress 
may be considered as an early marker of descending aorta dilation in Marfan 
patients.

DOI: 10.1186/s12968-019-0572-1
PMCID: PMC6791020
PMID: 31607265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


700. J Infect Chemother. 2020 Mar;26(3):225-230. doi: 10.1016/j.jiac.2019.09.005.
 Epub 2019 Oct 10.

Stopping the HPV vaccine crisis in Japan: Quantifying the benefits and risks of 
HPV vaccination in quality-adjusted life-years for appropriate decision-making.

Kitano T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Nara Medical University, 840 Shijo, Kashihara, 
634-8522, Japan; Division of Infectious Diseases, The Hospital for Sick 
Children, Toronto, M5G 1X8, Canada. Electronic address: 
taito.kitano.0110@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The human papilloma virus (HPV) vaccination coverage rate in Japan 
has dropped dramatically from more than 70% to less than 1% since 2013. With 
conflicting information and a lack of quantification of the benefits and risks 
of the HPV vaccine, parents have been hindered in making their decision. We 
quantified the benefits and risks of the HPV vaccine in terms of 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), to help their informed decision.
METHOD: A literature search was performed to determine the incidence and burden 
of each outcome in a decision tree model. The benefits and the risks of the HPV 
vaccination were determined in QALY change with a sensitivity analysis.
RESULT: The benefits of the HPV vaccine in terms of QALYs gained were 703.72, 
14.45, and 30.83/100,000 persons for cervical cancer, cervical intraepithelial 
neoplasm 3 (CIN 3), and genital warts, respectively. The QALY loss due to acute 
adverse reactions, chronic adverse reactions without assistance needs, and 
chronic adverse reactions with assistance needs were 0.07, 5.83, and 
5.82/100,000 persons, respectively. The risk/benefit ratio in QALY change in the 
base case was 0.0156. In all scenarios, the benefit of the HPV vaccine was 
significantly greater than the risk.
CONCLUSION: The benefits are much greater than the risks, even if it is assumed 
that all reported adverse events were due to the vaccination. The Japanese 
government and health care providers should immediately recommend the HPV 
vaccine to all adolescent girls irrespective of any causal links between the 
vaccine and reported adverse events.

Copyright © 2019 Japanese Society of Chemotherapy and The Japanese Association 
for Infectious Diseases. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jiac.2019.09.005
PMID: 31607433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Clin Ther. 2019 Nov;41(11):2308-2320.e11. doi:
10.1016/j.clinthera.2019.09.008.  Epub 2019 Oct 10.

Cost-effectiveness of Osimertinib as a Second-line Treatment in Patients With 
EGFR-mutated Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer in China.

Guan H(1), Liu G(2), Xie F(3), Sheng Y(4), Shi L(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Peking University, Beijing, China.
(2)National School of Development, Peking University, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; Program for Health Economics and Outcome Measures, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(4)China Center for Health Economic Research, Peking University, Beijing, China.
(5)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Peking University, Beijing, China. 
Electronic address: shilu@bjmu.edu.cn.

PURPOSE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of osimertinib used as a second-line 
treatment after failure of epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor therapy for advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in China.
METHODS: From the perspective of China's health care system, a Markov model was 
used for estimating the costs and health outcomes of osimertinib and 4 
platinum-based chemotherapies, including pemetrexed + platinum (PP), 
gemcitabine + platinum (GP), docetaxel + platinum (DP), and 
paclitaxel + platinum (TP). Two scenarios were considered, one in all confirmed 
patients with T790M-positive disease (scenario 1) and the other in all patients 
whose disease progressed after epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor therapy, which consisted of patients with T790M-positive or 
T790M-negative NSCLC (scenario 2). Clinical data for transition probabilities 
and treatment effects were obtained from published clinical trials. Health care 
resource utilization and costs were derived from local administrative databases 
and published literature. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
were conducted to assess the uncertainty of the results.
FINDINGS: In the base-case analysis, compared with the 4 platinum-based 
chemotherapies, osimertinib yielded an additional 0.671 to 0.846 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY), with incremental costs of 15,943 to 20,299 
USD in scenario 1, and an additional 0.376 to 0.808 QALY with incremental costs 
of 9710 to 15,407 USD in scenario 2. In the probabilistic sensitivity analysis, 
the probabilities that osimertinib would be cost-effective were 57.7% in 
scenario 1 and 58.4% in scenario 2 if the willingness-to-pay threshold were 
30,000 USD/QALY, and probabilities would be more than 75 % in both scenarios if 
the willingness-to-pay threshold were 50,000 USD/QALY.
IMPLICATIONS: Osimertinib is likely to be cost-effective when used as a 
second-line treatment of advanced NSCLC in China based on the latest 
reimbursement price of osimertinib through National Reimbursement Drug List 
negotiation.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2019.09.008
PMID: 31607559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Colomb Med (Cali). 2019 Jun 30;50(2):50-51. doi: 10.25100/cm.v50i2.4613.

Research: a priority for the decade of healthy aging.

Garcia EV(1).

Author information:
(1)Pan American Health Organization/World Health Organization (PAHO/WHO), Head 
of the Unit, Healthy Life Course, Washington, DC, USA.

DOI: 10.25100/cm.v50i2.4613
PMCID: PMC6774578
PMID: 31607762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Front Pharmacol. 2019 Sep 24;10:1061. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2019.01061.
eCollection  2019.

Impact of Chronic Risperidone Use on Behavior and Survival of 3xTg-AD Mice Model 
of Alzheimer's Disease and Mice With Normal Aging.

Torres-Lista V(1)(2), López-Pousa S(3), Giménez-Llort L(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Medical Psychology Unit, Department of Psychiatry and Forensic Medicine, 
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain.
(2)Institut de Neurociències, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Cerdanyola del 
Vallès, Spain.
(3)Research Unit and UVaMiD (Memory and Dementia Assessment Unit), Institut 
d'Assistència Sanitaria, Salt, Spain.

Psychosis and/or aggression are common problems in dementia, and when severe or 
persistent, cause considerable patient distress and disability, caregiver 
stress, and early institutionalization. In 2005, the Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) determined that atypical antipsychotics were associated 
with a significantly greater mortality risk compared to placebo, which prompted 
the addition of an FDA black-box warning. The American College of 
Neuropsychopharmacology (ACNP) White Paper, 2008, reviewed this issue and made 
clinical and research recommendations regarding the use of antipsychotics in 
dementia patients with psychosis and/or agitation. Increased mortality risk has 
also been described in cerebrovascular adverse events in elderly users of 
antipsychotics. In the present work, at the translational level, we used male 
3xTg-AD mice (PS1M146V, APPSwe, tauP301L) at advanced stages of the disease 
reported to have worse survival than females, to study the behavioral effects of 
a low chronic dose of risperidone (0.1 mg/kg, s.c., 90 days, from 13 to 16 
months of age) and its impact on long-term survival, as compared to mice with 
normal aging. Animals were behaviorally assessed for cognitive and BPSD 
(behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia)-like symptoms in 
naturalistic and experimental conditions (open-field test, T-maze, social 
interaction, Morris water maze, and marble test) before and after treatment. 
Weight, basal glucose levels, and IPGTT (i.p. glucose tolerance test) were also 
recorded. Neophobia in the corner test was used for behavioral monitoring. 
Survival curves were recorded throughout the experiment until natural death. The 
benefits of risperidone were limited, both at cognitive and BPSD-like level, and 
mostly restricted to burying, agitation/vibrating tail, and other social 
behaviors. However, the work warns about a clear early mortality risk window 
during the treatment and long-lasting impact on survival. Reduced life 
expectancy and life span were observed in the 3xTg-AD mice, but total lifespan 
(36 months) recorded in C57BL/6 × 129Sv counterparts with normal aging was also 
truncated to 28 months in those with treatment. Sarcopenia at time of death was 
found in all groups, but was more severe in wild-type animals treated with 
risperidone. Therefore, the 3xTg-AD mice and their non-transgenic counterparts 
can be useful to delimitate critical time windows and for studying the 
physio-pathogenic factors and underlying causal events involved in this topic of 
considerable public health significance.

Copyright © 2019 Torres-Lista, López-Pousa and Giménez-Llort.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2019.01061
PMCID: PMC6771277
PMID: 31607916


704. Front Physiol. 2019 Sep 13;10:1158. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2019.01158.
eCollection  2019.

Muscle Responses to Passive Joint Movements in Infants During the First Year of 
Life.

Solopova IA(1), Zhvansky DS(1), Dolinskaya IY(1), Keshishian ES(2), Selionov 
VA(1), Sylos-Labini F(3)(4), Lacquaniti F(3)(4), Ivanenko Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology of Motor Control, Institute for Information 
Transmission Problems, Moscow, Russia.
(2)Moscow Research Institute of Clinical Pediatrics of Russian Federation, 
Moscow, Russia.
(3)Laboratory of Neuromotor Physiology, Fondazione Santa Lucia, Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Systems Medicine and Center of Space Biomedicine, University of 
Rome Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy.

Muscle tone represents one of the important concepts for characterizing changes 
in the state of the developing nervous system. It can be manifested in the level 
of activity of flexors and extensors and in muscle reactions to its passive 
stretching (StR) or shortening (ShR). Here we investigated such reactions in a 
cohort of healthy infants aged from 2 weeks to 12 months. We examined the 
presence and the characteristics of StR and ShR during slow passive cyclic 
flexion/extension movements (T~3 s) in the hip, knee, ankle, and elbow joints 
while awake infants were in the supine position. The results showed that most 
infants demonstrated prominent ShRs in response to passive joint rotations, 
although the StR was observed more frequently, suggesting that the ShR is an 
important component of adaptive motor behavior already at an early developmental 
stage. Interestingly, the occurrence of both StR and ShR in most muscles 
significantly decreased throughout the first year of life. Passive cyclic 
flexion/extension movements could also evoke rhythmic muscle responses in other 
joints or in the contralateral limb, however, such responses were predominantly 
observed in younger infants (<6 months). A noticeable manifestation of muscle 
reactions at an early developmental stage, along with spontaneous motor activity 
in this period of life, may reflect the processes underlying a formation of 
appropriate muscle tone and the self-organization of neural circuits. A 
substantial reduction of ipsilateral and contralateral muscle responses to 
passive movements with age is consistent with the idea of a functional 
reorganization of the motor circuitry during early development.

Copyright © 2019 Solopova, Zhvansky, Dolinskaya, Keshishian, Selionov, 
Sylos-Labini, Lacquaniti and Ivanenko.

DOI: 10.3389/fphys.2019.01158
PMCID: PMC6769424
PMID: 31607940


705. Psychol Health. 2020 Jun;35(6):734-749. doi: 10.1080/08870446.2019.1675658.
Epub  2019 Oct 13.

The effect of self-efficacy expectations in the adherence to a gluten free diet 
in celiac disease.

Fueyo-Díaz R(1)(2)(3)(4), Magallón-Botaya R(3)(4)(5), Gascón-Santos S(1)(2), 
Asensio-Martínez Á(1)(2)(3)(4), Palacios-Navarro G(6), Sebastián-Domingo 
JJ(2)(5)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Sociology, Universidad de Zaragoza, Zaragoza, 
Spain.
(2)Aragon Institute of Health Sciences IACS, Zaragoza, Spain.
(3)Aragon Health Research Institute IISA, Group B21-17R, Zaragoza, Spain.
(4)RediAPP Primary Care Prevention and Promotion Network RD16/07/05, Institute 
of Health Carlos III, Spain.
(5)Department of Medicine, University of Zaragoza, Spain.
(6)Department of Electronic Engineering and Communications, University of 
Zaragoza, Spain.
(7)Department of Digestive Diseases, Hospital Royo Villanova, Zaragoza, Spain.

Objective: To analyse the effect of general and specific self-efficacy on the 
adherence to a gluten free diet (GFD) in patients with celiac disease along with 
the effect of other relevant variables.Design: 271 patients with celiac disease 
participated in this transversal descriptive study and completed a series of 
questionnaires regarding adherence (CDAT), general self-efficacy (GSES) and 
specific self-efficacy (Celiac-SE) and quality of life (CD-Qol), among 
others.Main Outcome Measures: Dependent variable was adherence to the Gluten 
Free Diet (GFD). Main independent variables were general self-efficacy, specific 
self-efficacy and quality of life. Model tests were conducted using regression 
analysis.Results: 71.9% of patients show an excellent or good adherence to the 
diet. Higher levels of adherence are positively associated to a high expectancy 
of specific self-efficacy, to the perceived adoption of recommended behaviours, 
risk perception and better quality of life (these variables accounted for 36.4% 
of the variance in the adherence to a GFD, p < .001).Conclusions: Specific 
self-efficacy rather than general has a predictive value in adherence to a GFD. 
Therefore, we need to develop and transculturally adapt new instruments to 
assess specific self-efficacy. Celiac-SE has proved to be a useful scale for 
this objective.

DOI: 10.1080/08870446.2019.1675658
PMID: 31608661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Public Health Nutr. 2020 Jan;23(1):83-93. doi: 10.1017/S1368980019002945.
Epub  2019 Oct 14.

Health benefits and costs of weight-loss dietary counselling by nurses in 
primary care: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Cleghorn CL(1), Wilson N(1), Nair N(1), Kvizhinadze G(1), Nghiem N(1), McLeod 
M(1), Blakely T(1).

Author information:
(1)Burden of Disease Epidemiology, Equity and Cost-Effectiveness Programme, 
University of Otago, PO Box 7343, Newtown, Wellington 6242, New Zealand.

OBJECTIVE: We aimed to estimate the cost-effectiveness of brief weight-loss 
counselling by dietitian-trained practice nurses, in a high-income-country case 
study.
DESIGN: A literature search of the impact of dietary counselling on BMI was 
performed to source the 'best' effect size for use in modelling. This was 
combined with multiple other input parameters (e.g. epidemiological and cost 
parameters for obesity-related diseases, likely uptake of counselling) in an 
established multistate life-table model with fourteen parallel BMI-related 
disease life tables using a 3 % discount rate.
SETTING: New Zealand (NZ).
PARTICIPANTS: We calculated quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) gained and 
health-system costs over the remainder of the lifespan of the NZ population 
alive in 2011 (n 4·4 million).
RESULTS: Counselling was estimated to result in an increase of 250 QALY (95 % 
uncertainty interval -70, 560 QALY) over the population's lifetime. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was 2011 $NZ 138 200 per QALY gained (2018 
$US 102 700). Per capita QALY gains were higher for Māori (Indigenous 
population) than for non-Māori, but were still not cost-effective. If 
willingness-to-pay was set to the level of gross domestic product per capita per 
QALY gained (i.e. 2011 $NZ 45 000 or 2018 $US 33 400), the probability that the 
intervention would be cost-effective was 2 %.
CONCLUSIONS: The study provides modelling-level evidence that brief dietary 
counselling for weight loss in primary care generates relatively small health 
gains at the population level and is unlikely to be cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1017/S1368980019002945
PMCID: PMC10200487
PMID: 31608841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. J Insur Med. 2019;48(1):52-57. doi: 10.17849/insm-48-1-1-5.1. Epub 2019 Oct
14.

Medical Malpractice Defense: The Predictive and Protective Power of Mortality, 
Survival, and Life Expectancy.

Milano AF, Beck GP.

Introduction.-The defense of medical malpractice presents a significant 
challenge to Assistant United States Attorneys (AUSAs). A medical malpractice 
claim consists of proof of: (1) duty, (2) breach of the duty, (3) causation, and 
(4) damages. Often the breach of the duty and the causation elements present 
complex medical issues involving multiple specialties and subspecialties of 
medicine. A considerable amount of time is required to prepare the defense 
pertaining to the alleged breach of the duty and causation elements. The damages 
aspect of the medical malpractice case is often not given equal treatment and 
may not be fully developed. As a result, damage awards can be surprisingly high 
once the breach of the standard of care and the causation defenses fail. 
Purpose.-The purpose of this article is to underscore the importance of 
developing the damages aspect of the case. This article will demonstrate through 
a case study the power of using fact-based medical-actuarial risk statistics and 
life expectancy testimony to limit, by thousands if not millions of dollars, 
economic damages to impairment-specific "years of life lost" in 
medical-malpractice torts. The important points to remember are that from the 
moment a case is assigned to an AUSA, the AUSA must: (1) focus as much, if not 
more, attention on damages; (2) execute a discovery strategy that ensures all 
aspects of damages are thoroughly investigated; and (3) retain the appropriate 
experts, including, in appropriate cases, an expert on medical risk appraisal 
and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.17849/insm-48-1-1-5.1
PMID: 31609648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. PLoS Genet. 2019 Oct 14;15(10):e1008445. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1008445. 
eCollection 2019 Oct.

A novel system of bacterial cell division arrest implicated in horizontal 
transmission of an integrative and conjugative element.

Takano S(1), Fukuda K(2), Koto A(1)(3), Miyazaki R(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Bioproduction Research Institute, National Institute of Advanced Industrial 
Science and Technology (AIST), Tsukuba, Japan.
(2)Department of Bioscience, Graduate School of Science and Technology, Shizuoka 
University, Hamamatsu, Japan.
(3)Computational Bio Big Data Open Innovation Laboratory (CBBD-OIL), AIST, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Faculty of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, 
Japan.

Integrative and conjugative elements (ICEs) are widespread mobile DNA elements 
in the prokaryotic world. ICEs are usually retained within the bacterial 
chromosome, but can be excised and transferred from a donor to a new recipient 
cell, even of another species. Horizontal transmission of ICEclc, a prevalent 
ICE in proteobacteria, only occurs from developed specialized transfer competent 
(tc) cells in the donor population. tc cells become entirely dedicated to the 
ICE transmission at the cost of cell proliferation. The cell growth impairment 
is mediated by two ICEclc located genes, parA and shi, but the mechanistic and 
dynamic details of this process are unknown. To better understand the function 
of ParA and Shi, we followed their intracellular behavior from fluorescent 
protein fusions, and studied host cell division at single-cell level. 
Superresolution imaging revealed that ParA-mCherry colocalized with the host 
nucleoid while Shi-GFP was enriched at the membrane during the growth 
impairment. Despite being enriched at different cellular locations, the two 
proteins showed in vivo interactions, and mutations in the Walker A motif of 
ParA dislocalized both ParA and Shi. In addition, ParA mutations in the ATPase 
motif abolished the growth arrest on the host cell. Time-lapse microscopy 
revealed that ParA and Shi initially delay cell division, suggesting an 
extension of the S phase of cells, but eventually completely inhibit cell 
elongation. The parA-shi locus is highly conserved in other ICEclc-related 
elements, and expressing ParA-Shi from ICEclc in other proteobacterial species 
caused similar growth arrest, suggesting that the system functions similarly 
across hosts. The results of our study provide mechanistic insight into the 
novel and unique system on ICEs and help to understand such epistatic 
interaction between ICE genes and host physiology that entails efficient 
horizontal gene transfer.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1008445
PMCID: PMC6812849
PMID: 31609967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


709. Br J Dermatol. 2020 Jul;183(1):105-113. doi: 10.1111/bjd.18611. Epub 2019
Dec 2.

Pathogen identification by shotgun metagenomics of patients with necrotizing 
soft-tissue infections.

Rodriguez C(1)(2)(3), Jary A(1), Hua C(4), Woerther PL(1), Bosc R(5), Desroches 
M(1), Sitterlé E(6), Gricourt G(3), De Prost N(1)(2), Pawlotsky JM(1)(2), 
Chosidow O(4)(7), Sbidian E(4)(7), Decousser JW(1); Multidisciplinary 
Necrotizing Fasciitis Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, AP-HP, Henri Mondor University Hospital, 
Université Paris-Est, Créteil, France.
(2)INSERM U955, AP-HP, Henri Mondor University Hospital, Université Paris-Est, 
Créteil, France.
(3)NGS Platform, IMRB Institute, AP-HP, Henri Mondor University Hospital, 
Université Paris-Est, Créteil, France.
(4)Department of Dermatology, AP-HP, Henri Mondor University Hospital, 
Université Paris-Est, Créteil, France.
(5)Department of Plastic Surgery, AP-HP, Henri Mondor University Hospital, 
Université Paris-Est, Créteil, France.
(6)Unité de Parasitologie-Mycologie, Service de Microbiologie Clinique, Hôpital 
Necker-Enfants-Malades, AP-HP, Paris, France.
(7)EA 7379 EpiDermE (Epidémiologie en Dermatologie et Evaluation des 
Thérapeutiques) and INSERM CIC 1430, Université Paris-Est, Créteil, and 
Université Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris, France.

Comment in
    Br J Dermatol. 2020 Jul;183(1):10.

BACKGROUND: Necrotizing soft-tissue infections (NSTIs) are life threatening, 
requiring broad-spectrum antibiotics. Their aetiological diagnosis can be 
limited by poor performance of cultures and administration of antibiotics before 
surgery.
OBJECTIVES: We aimed (i) to compare 16S-targeted metagenomics (TM) and unbiased 
semiquantitative panmicroorganism DNA- and RNA-based shotgun metagenomics (SM) 
with cultures, (ii) to identify patients who would best benefit from 
metagenomics approaches and (iii) to detect the microbial pathogens in 
surrounding non-necrotic 'healthy' tissues by SM-based methods.
METHODS: A prospective observational study was performed to assess the 
analytical performance of standard cultures, TM and SM on tissues from 34 
patients with NSTIs. Pathogen identification obtained with these three methods 
was compared.
RESULTS: Thirty-four necrotic and 10 healthy tissues were collected from 34 
patients. The performance of TM was inferior to that of the other methods (P < 
0·05), whereas SM performed better than standard culture, although the result 
was not statistically significant (P = 0·08). SM was significantly more 
sensitive than TM for the detection of all bacteria (P = 0·02) and more 
sensitive than standard culture for the detection of anaerobic bacteria (P < 
0·01). There was a strong correlation (r = 0·71, Spearman correlation 
coefficient) between the semiquantitative abundance of bacteria in the culture 
and the bacteria-to-human sequence ratio in SM. Low amounts of bacterial DNA 
were found in healthy tissues, suggesting a bacterial continuum between 
macroscopically 'healthy' and necrotic tissue.
CONCLUSIONS: SM showed a significantly better ability to detect a broader range 
of pathogens than TM and identify strict anaerobes than standard culture. 
Patients with diabetes with NSTIs appeared to benefit most from SM. Finally, our 
results suggest a bacterial continuum between macroscopically 'healthy' 
non-necrotic areas and necrotic tissues. What's already known about this topic? 
Necrotizing soft-tissue infections (NSTIs) are characterized by rapidly 
progressive necrosis of subcutaneous tissues and high mortality, despite 
surgical debridement combined with broad-spectrum antibiotics. The spectrum of 
potentially involved pathogens is very large, and identification is often 
limited by the poor performance of standard cultures, which may be impaired by 
previous antibiotic intake. Metagenomics-based approaches show promise for 
better identification of the pathogens that cause these infections, but they 
have not been evaluated in this medical context. What does this study add? 
Shotgun metagenomics (SM) showed higher sensitivity than 16S rRNA gene 
sequencing and a better ability than culture to detect anaerobic bacteria. As a 
result, a significant proportion of infections with bacteria, such as 
Pasteurella multocida or Clostridium perfringens, were detected only by SM. SM 
bacterial quantification enabled better detection of low amounts of bacterial 
DNA from macroscopically 'healthy' tissue, suggesting a subclinical infectious 
extension. What is the translational message? The high analytical performance of 
SM shown in this study should allow its future implementation for the diagnosis 
of necrotizing fasciitis, complementing or replacing routine methods. The large 
amount of data, including additional information on antimicrobial resistance, 
virulence profiles and metabolic adaptation of the pathogens, will improve 
microbiological documentation. Our results will improve our understanding of 
infectious pathophysiology in the future, leading to potentially better medical 
care.

© 2019 British Association of Dermatologists.

DOI: 10.1111/bjd.18611
PMID: 31610037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Drug Discov Today. 2020 Jan;25(1):168-176. doi:
10.1016/j.drudis.2019.10.002.  Epub 2019 Oct 11.

Site-specific bioconjugation and self-assembly technologies for multi-functional 
biologics: on the road to the clinic.

Lim SI(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Pukyong National University, 45 
Yongso-ro, Nam-gu, Busan, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
silim@pknu.ac.kr.

The expanding portfolio of biotherapeutics both in the research and development 
(R&D) and market sectors is shaping new opportunities towards multifunctional 
biologics (MFBs). The combination of new or pre-existing therapeutic agents into 
a single multifunctional format makes it possible to develop new pharmacological 
actions to significantly improve their efficacy and safety. In this review, I 
focus on novel platform technologies that are being exploited in the biotech 
industry to produce MFBs with potential therapeutic benefits that include 
half-life extension, targeted delivery, T cell engagement, and improved 
vaccination. In this regard, technologies of key importance are site-specific 
bioconjugation and self-assembly, which allow homogeneous, defined, and scalable 
process developments for several MFBs that are advancing towards clinical 
applications.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drudis.2019.10.002
PMID: 31610287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Z Gastroenterol. 2019 Oct;57(10):1218-1225. doi: 10.1055/a-0981-6516. Epub
2019  Oct 14.

Genetic prediction profile for adalimumab response in Slovenian Crohn's disease 
patients.

[Article in English]

Gorenjak M(1), Repnik K(1)(2), Jezernik G(1), Jurgec S(1)(2), Skok P(1)(3), 
Potočnik U(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Human Molecular Genetics and Pharmacogenomics, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Maribor, Slovenia.
(2)Laboratory of Biochemistry, Molecular biology and Genomics, Faculty of 
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, University of Maribor, Slovenia.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, University Medical Center Maribor, Slovenia.

INTRODUCTION:  Response to anti-TNF therapy is crucial for life expectancy and 
life quality in patients with severe Crohn's disease. We investigated if a 
previously reported gene expression profile predictive for infliximab response 
could be also applied to adalimumab response in an independent cohort.
METHODS:  Forty-seven Slovene Crohn's disease patients indicated for adalimumab 
therapy were enrolled in the study. Inflamed and non-inflamed colon biopsy 
samples were obtained during routine colonoscopy prior to adalimumab treatment. 
Response to adalimumab was measured with IBDQ. Gene expression in inflamed and 
non-inflamed colon biopsy samples was measured with RT-qPCR. Genotypes were 
extracted from previously available genotype data. Statistical analysis was 
performed with SPSS software. The R package e1071 was used to train bootstrap 
aggregated support vector machines (SVM).
RESULTS:  SVM prediction model analysis was used to analyze pooled, 
non-inflamed, and inflamed colon tissue datasets using IBDQ response after 4, 
12, 20 and 30 weeks of adalimumab treatment. The bagging approach was used in an 
endeavor to obtain 100 % accuracy using 10 × 100 or 100 × 100 iterations. 
Average adalimumab response prediction accuracy is 75.5 % for pooled samples, 
90.5 % for inflamed samples, and 100 % for non-inflamed samples. Moreover, 
models trained on selected SNPs from analyzed genes had an average accuracy of 
92.8 %, confirming the involvement of genetic regions mapping the reported 
genes. Finally, using combined gene expression and SNP data we observed 100 % 
adalimumab response prediction accuracy for pooled, inflamed, and non-inflamed 
datasets.
DISCUSSION:  Our study supports the reported genetic anti-TNF response profile 
and extends it for adalimumab prediction.

Publisher: EINLEITUNG:  Eine ausreichende Antwort auf Anti-TNF-Behandlung mit 
Infliximab oder Adalimumab ist entscheidend für Lebenserwartung und 
Lebensqualität bei Patienten mit schwergradigem Morbus Crohn. Wir untersuchten, 
ob das zuvor beschriebene Genprofil zur Prognose des Therapieerfolgs mit 
Infliximab auch zur Prognose des Therapieerfolgs mit Adalimumab in einer 
unabhängigen Kohorte anwendbar ist.
METHODIK:  47 slowenische für Adalimumab-Behandlung indizierte 
Morbus-Crohn-Patienten wurden in die Studie aufgenommen. Vor der Behandlung mit 
Adalimumab wurden während der Kolonoskopie entzündete und nicht entzündete 
Gewebeproben entnommen. Die Reaktion auf Adalimumab wurde mit IBDQ gemessen. Die 
Genexpression in Gewebeproben wurde mit RT-qPCR gemessen. Genotypen wurden aus 
zuvor verfügbaren Genotypdaten extrahiert. Die statistische Analyse wurde mit 
SPSS-Software durchgeführt. Das R-Paket e1071 wurde zum Trainieren von Support 
Vector Machines benutzt.
ERGEBNISSE:  Die SVM-Vorhersagemodelle wurden verwendet, um die gepoolten, nicht 
entzündeten und entzündeten Darmproben-Datensätze mit Verwendung von 
IBDQ-Antwort nach 4, 12, 20 und 30 Wochen Adalimumab-Behandlung zu analysieren. 
Die Bagging-Methode wurde verwendet, um eine 100-%-Genauigkeit mit Verwendung 
von 10 × 100 oder 100 × 100 Iterationen zu erreichen. Die 
Adalimumab-Antwortvorhersage von gepoolten Datensätzen erreichte im Durchschnitt 
eine Genauigkeit von 75,5 %, von entzündeten Datensätzen 90,5 % und von nicht 
entzündeten Datensätzen 100 %. Zusätzlich haben die Modelle, die an ausgewählten 
SNPs in den analysierten Genen trainiert wurden, eine durchschnittliche 
Genauigkeit von 92,8 % erreicht. Schließlich kombinierten wir Expressions- und 
Genotypdaten, um den Vorhersagewert weiter zu analysieren. Mithilfe kombinierter 
Daten konnten wir mit Darmgewebe-Datensätzen eine Adalimumab-Antwortvorhersage 
mit hundertprozentiger Sicherheit feststellen.
DISKUSSION:  Unsere Studie unterstützt das genetische Anti-TNF-Antwortprofil, 
das für den Adalimumab-Therapieerfolg gleichermaßen relevant ist.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/a-0981-6516
PMID: 31610585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


712. Oncol Res. 2020 Mar 27;28(2):117-125. doi: 10.3727/096504019X15707883083132.
 Epub 2019 Oct 14.

Cost-Utility Analysis of Pembrolizumab Versus Chemotherapy as First-Line 
Treatment for Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer With Different PD-L1 
Expression Levels.

Weng X(1), Luo S(1), Lin S(1), Zhong L(2), Li M(1), Xin R(1), Huang P(1), Xu 
X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical 
UniversityTaijiang, FuzhouP.R. China.
(2)College of Pharmacy, Texas A&M UniversityCollege Station, TXUSA.

To evaluate the cost-utility of pembrolizumab versus chemotherapy as the 
first-line setting for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) from the US 
health care system perspective, a Markov model was developed to compare the 
lifetime cost and effectiveness of pembrolizumab versus chemotherapy for 
untreated metastatic NSCLC, based on the clinical data derived from phase III 
randomized controlled trial (KEYNOTE-042; ClinicalTrials.gov; NCT02220894). 
Weibull distribution was fitted to simulate the parametric survival functions. 
Drug costs were collected from official websites, and utility values were 
obtained from published literature. Total costs, quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were computed as 
primary output indicators. The impact of different PD-L1 expression levels on 
ICER was also evaluated. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
performed to assess the model uncertainty. Compared with chemotherapy, patients 
treated with pembrolizumab provided an additional 1.13, 1.01, and 0.59 QALYs in 
patients with PD-L1 expression levels of ≥50%, ≥20%, and ≥1%, with corresponding 
incremental cost of 53,784, 47,479, and 39,827, respectively. The resultant 
ICERs of pembrolizumab versus chemotherapy were 47,596, 47,184, and 68,061/QALY, 
in three expression levels of PD-L1, respectively, all of which did not exceed 
the WTP threshold of 180,000/QALY. Probability sensitivity analysis outcome 
supported that pembrolizumab exhibited evident advantage over chemotherapy to be 
cost-effective. One-way sensitivity analysis found that ICERs were most 
sensitive to utility value of pembrolizumab in progression survival state. All 
the adjustment of parameters did not qualitatively change the result. For 
treatment-naive, metastatic NSCLC patients with PD-L1+, pembrolizumab was 
estimated to be cost-effective compared with chemotherapy for all PD-L1 
expression levels at a WTP threshold of 180,000/QALY in the context of the US 
health care system.

DOI: 10.3727/096504019X15707883083132
PMCID: PMC7851532
PMID: 31610828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


713. J Arthroplasty. 2020 Feb;35(2):544-549. doi: 10.1016/j.arth.2019.09.012.
Epub  2019 Sep 14.

Persistent Fistula for Treatment of a Failed Periprosthetic Joint Infection: 
Relic From the Past or a Viable Salvage Procedure?

Troendlin F(1), Frieler S(1), Hanusrichter Y(1), Yilmaz E(1), Schildhauer TA(1), 
Baecker H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General and Trauma Surgery, BG University Hospital 
Bergmannsheil, Ruhr University Bochum, Bochum, Germany.

BACKGROUND: New treatment algorithms for periprosthetic joint infections (PJIs) 
show high success rates in achieving permanent infection eradication with some 
degree of failure. Different salvage procedures are described, but there is no 
evidence for persistent fistula (PF). The purpose of this study was to analyze 
PF as a salvage procedure in patients with therapy-resistant PJIs.
METHODS: This retrospective analysis included all patients treated with PF 
(2005-2018) in a maximum care center with PJI (knee or hip). The baseline 
parameters (age, sex, BMI) and other data (number of surgeries, pathogen 
spectrum, American Society of Anesthesiologists classification) were recorded. 
The function was documented using the Harris Hip Score, the Knee Society Score, 
and the quality of life using the SF-36 Health Survey.
RESULTS: A total of 159 patients were included (80 ± 12 years) and subdivided 
into four groups: hip (n = 66), knee (n = 13), Girdlestone resection 
arthroplasty (n = 50), knee arthrodesis (n = 27). Patients stayed 111 ± 87 days 
in the hospital, underwent six operations and three revisions after establishing 
PF. The mean American Society of Anesthesiologists score was 2.7. The BMI was 
31 ± 3 kg/m2 (P = .1). The follow-up was 2.8 ± 0.5 years including 27 patients. 
The Harris Hip Score and Knee Society Score were 38 and 34, respectively. SF-36 
showed no significant difference.
CONCLUSION: The study showed poor outcomes regarding quality of life and the 
function of the infected joint. Therefore, the indication for establishing a PF 
in the treatment of PJI must be assessed very critically. PF is only an option 
for multimorbid patients with a limited life expectancy.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arth.2019.09.012
PMID: 31611161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2019 Dec;73(12):1101-1107. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2019-212487. Epub 2019 Oct 14.

Inequalities in time from stopping paid work to death: findings from the ONS 
Longitudinal Study, 2001-2011.

Murray ET(1), Carr E(2)(3), Zaninotto P(2), Head J(2), Xue B(2), Stansfeld S(4), 
Beach B(5), Shelton N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London 
(UCL), London, UK emily.murray@ucl.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London 
(UCL), London, UK.
(3)Institute of Psychiatry, Kings College London, London, UK.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Barts and the London, Queen Marys School of 
Medicine and Dentistry, London, UK.
(5)International Longevity Centre UK, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: UK state pension eligibility ages are linked to average life 
expectancy, which ignores wide socioeconomic disparities in both healthy and 
overall life expectancy.
OBJECTIVES: Investigate whether there are occupational social class differences 
in the amount of time older adults live after they stop work, and how much of 
these differences are due to health.
METHODS: Participants were 76 485 members of the Office for National Statistics 
Longitudinal Study (LS), who were 50-75 years at the 2001 census and had stopped 
work by the 2011 census. Over 10 years of follow-up, we used censored linear 
regression to estimate mean differences in years between stopping work and death 
by occupational social class.
RESULTS: After adjustment for age, both social class and health were independent 
predictors of postwork duration (mean difference (95% CI): unskilled class vs 
professional: 2.7 years (2.4 to 3.1); not good vs good health: 2.4 years (1.9 to 
2.9)), with LS members in the three manual classes experiencing ~1 additional 
year of postwork duration than professional workers (interaction p values all 
<0.001). Further adjustment for gender and educational qualifications was 
reduced but did not eliminate social class and postwork duration associations. 
We estimate the difference in postwork years between professional classes in 
good health and unskilled workers not in good health as 5.1 years for women 
(21.0 vs 26.1) and 5.5 years for men (19.5 vs 25.0).
CONCLUSIONS: Lower social class groups are negatively affected by uniform state 
pension ages, because they are more likely to stop work at younger ages due to 
health reasons.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2019. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2019-212487
PMID: 31611238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


715. Tob Control. 2020 Nov;29(6):715-718. doi:
10.1136/tobaccocontrol-2019-055181.  Epub 2019 Oct 14.

Air pollution is not 'the new smoking': comparing the disease burden of air 
pollution and smoking across the globe, 1990-2017.

Gao W(1), Sanna M(2), Hefler M(3), Wen CP(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Master's Program in Global Health and Development, Taipei Medical University, 
Taipei, Taiwan waynegao@tmu.edu.tw cwengood@nhri.edu.tw.
(2)Master's Program in Global Health and Development, Taipei Medical University, 
Taipei, Taiwan.
