RESULTS: Performance-based and self-reported physical function and quality of 
life measures improved nonlinearly over time. Specifically, the 6WMT, TUG, gait 
speed, WOMAC-pain, WOMAC-function, VAS, and EQ-5D scores showed a significant 
improvement at 1-month post-TKA, whereas SCT, peak torque of the knee extensors 
and flexors, and WOMAC-stiffness scores showed gradual, but substantial, 
improvements over 3 months. There were between-group differences (unilateral and 
bilateral TKA groups) in the time course of the SCT, 6MWT, TUG, VAS, 
WOAMC-stiffness, and WOMAC-function results.
CONCLUSION: Patients who underwent critical pathway rehabilitation after TKA 
showed significant improvements in functional measurements during the first 3 
months post-surgery.

DOI: 10.5535/arm.2019.43.6.650
PMCID: PMC6960081
PMID: 31918528

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


759. Gynecol Oncol. 2020 Feb;156(2):363-376. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2019.11.036.
Epub  2020 Jan 7.

Precision prophylaxis: Identifying the optimal timing for risk-reducing 
salpingo-oophorectomy based on type of BRCA1 and BRCA2 cluster region mutations.

Solsky I(1), Chen J(2), Rebbeck TR(3).

Author information:
(1)Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, United States of 
America.
(2)University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, United 
States of America.
(3)Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, United States of 
America; Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA, United States of America. 
Electronic address: Timothy_Rebbeck@dfci.harvard.edu.

Erratum in
    Gynecol Oncol. 2021 May;161(2):636.

OBJECTIVES: Current risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy (RRSO) guidelines for 
individuals with BRCA1/2 mutations do not account for risk variability due to 
BRCA1/2 cluster region mutations that are associated with varying risks for the 
development of breast and ovarian cancer. We assessed whether current 
recommendations are appropriate for individual patients considering 
mutation-specific risks.
METHODS: Using a hypothetical cohort of patients with BRCA1/2 mutations, we 
constructed Markov models allowing for the estimation of mean life expectancy 
based upon BRCA1/2 mutation, the presence of a cluster region mutation (Ovarian 
Cancer Cluster Region (OCCR), Breast Cancer Cluster Region (BCCR), or 
non-BCCR/OCCR), age at time of BRCA1/2 diagnosis (20-65), and age at time of 
RRSO (21-80).
RESULTS: For all BRCA1/2 mutation types, the optimal strategy was to undergo 
RRSO as early as possible. For BRCA1/2 carriers who delayed RRSO or who were 
identified with a mutation later in life, the OCCR mutation tended to be 
associated with lower life expectancy estimates than the BCCR and non-BCCR/OCCR 
mutations. Minimal delays in RRSO (i.e., neighboring 5-year intervals) were 
associated with minor losses in life expectancy. Variables associated with 
greatest impact on life expectancy included ovarian cancer risk after RRSO, 
breast cancer mortality rate, non-cancer mortality associated with RRSO, and 
breast cancer stage distribution.
CONCLUSIONS: BRCA1/2 cluster regions may provide more precise estimates of life 
expectancy in counselling and shared decision-making. The most appropriate 
timing for RRSO is a complex decision and must be individualized for each 
patient.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2019.11.036
PMCID: PMC9148810
PMID: 31918993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
report no proprietary or commercial interest in any product mentioned or concept 
discussed in this article.


760. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2020 Aug;18(4):477-489. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-019-00545-9.

Do Research Groups Align on an Intervention's Value? Concordance of 
Cost-Effectiveness Findings Between the Institute for Clinical and Economic 
Review and Other Health System Stakeholders.

Sussman M(1), Yu JC(2), Menzin J(2).

Author information:
(1)Boston Health Economics, LLC, 265 Franklin Street, Suite 1101, Boston, MA, 
02110, USA. msussman@bhei.com.
(2)Boston Health Economics, LLC, 265 Franklin Street, Suite 1101, Boston, MA, 
02110, USA.

The Institute for Clinical and Economic Review (ICER) employs fixed 
cost-effectiveness (CE) thresholds that guide their appraisal of an 
intervention's long-term economic value. Given ICER's rising influence in the 
healthcare field, we undertook an assessment of the concordance of ICER's CE 
findings to the published CE findings from other research groups (i.e., 
"non-ICER" researchers including life science manufacturers, academics, and 
government institutions). Disease areas and pharmaceutical interventions for 
comparison were determined based on ICER evaluations conducted from 1 January 
2015 to 31 December 2017. A targeted literature search was conducted for 
non-ICER CE publications using PubMed. Studies had to be conducted from the US 
setting, include the same disease characteristics (e.g., disease severity; 
treatment history), incorporate the same pharmaceutical interventions and 
comparison groups, and present incremental costs per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained from the healthcare sector or payer perspective. Discordance was 
measured as the proportion of unique interventions that would have had more 
favorable valuations (i.e., low, intermediate, high value-for-money) if the CE 
findings from other research groups had been used for decision making instead of 
ICER's findings. More favorable valuations were defined as transitioning from 
low value (as determined by ICER) to intermediate or high value (as determined 
by other researchers) and from intermediate value (as determined by ICER) to 
high value (as determined by other researchers). Among the 13 non-ICER studies 
meeting inclusion criteria, six disease areas and 14 interventions were 
assessed. Of the 14 interventions, a more favorable valuation would have been 
recommended for ten therapies if the CE ratios from other research groups had 
been used for decision making instead of ICER's findings, representing a 71.4% 
(10/14) discordance rate. Moreover, these discrepancies were found in each of 
the evaluated disease areas, with the largest number of discordant valuations 
found in rheumatoid arthritis (five out of six interventions were discordant) 
followed by one valuation each in multiple sclerosis (one out of three), 
non-small cell lung cancer (one out of two), multiple myeloma (one out of one), 
high cholesterol (one out of one), and congestive heart failure (one out of 
one). Our findings indicate high discordance when comparing ICER's appraisals to 
the CE findings of non-ICER researchers. To understand the value of new 
interventions, the totality of evidence on the CE of an intervention-including 
results from ICER and non-ICER modeling efforts-should be considered when making 
coverage and reimbursement decisions.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-019-00545-9
PMID: 31919779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Intern Emerg Med. 2020 Jan;15(1):37-48. doi: 10.1007/s11739-019-02252-8.
Epub  2020 Jan 9.

Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS): current indications and 
strategies to improve the outcomes.

Vizzutti F(1), Schepis F(2), Arena U(1), Fanelli F(3), Gitto S(1), Aspite S(1), 
Turco L(2), Dragoni G(1), Laffi G(1), Marra F(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, University of Florence, 
Viale Morgagni 85, 50134, Florence, Italy.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Modena and Reggio, Modena, 
Italy.
(3)Department of Radiology, Interventional Radiology, Azienda Ospedaliero 
Universitaria Careggi, Florence, Italy.
(4)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, University of Florence, 
Viale Morgagni 85, 50134, Florence, Italy. fabio.marra@unifi.it.
(5)Center for Research, High Education and Transfer DENOThe, University of 
Florence, Florence, Italy. fabio.marra@unifi.it.

Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) represents a very effective 
treatment of complications of portal hypertension. Established indications to 
TIPS in cirrhotic patients include portal hypertensive bleeding and refractory 
ascites. Over the years additional indications have been proposed, such as the 
treatment of vascular disease of the liver, hepatic hydrothorax, hepatorenal 
syndrome and bleeding from ectopic varices. Indications under evaluation include 
treatment of portal hypertension prior to major abdominal surgery and treatment 
of portal vein thrombosis. In spite of these advances, there are still 
uncertainties regarding the appropriate workup for patients to be scheduled for 
TIPS. Moreover, prevention and management of post-TIPS complications including 
hepatic encephalopathy and heart failure are still suboptimal. These issues are 
particularly relevant considering aging in TIPS candidates in Western countries. 
Correct selection of patients is mandatory to prevent complications which may 
eventually frustrate the good hemodynamic results and worsen the patient's 
quality of life or even life expectancy. The possible role of small diameter 
TIPS to prevent post-procedural complications is discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s11739-019-02252-8
PMID: 31919780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Am J Hematol. 2020 Apr;95(4):413-421. doi: 10.1002/ajh.25726. Epub 2020 Jan
24.

Pomalidomide, cyclophosphamide, and dexamethasone for elderly patients with 
relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma: A study of the Korean Multiple Myeloma 
Working Party (KMMWP-164 study).

Lee HS(1), Kim K(2), Kim SJ(2), Lee JJ(3), Kim I(4), Kim JS(5), Eom HS(6), Yoon 
DH(7), Suh C(7), Shin HJ(8), Mun YC(9), Kim MK(10), Lim SN(11), Choi CW(12), 
Kang HJ(13), Yoon SS(4), Min CK(14); Korean Multiple Myeloma Working Party 
(KMMWP).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Kosin University College of Medicine, Busan, 
South Korea.
(2)Department of Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, Sunkyunkwan University School 
of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Department of Hematology-Oncology, Chonnam National University Hwasun 
Hospital, Hwasun, Jeollanam-do, South Korea.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, 
South Korea.
(5)Division of Hematology, Department of Internal Medicine, Severance Hospital, 
Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine, National Cancer Center of Korea, Goyang, 
South Korea.
(7)Department of Oncology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of 
Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(8)Department of Internal Medicine, Pusan National University Hospital, Busan, 
South Korea.
(9)Department of Internal Medicine, Ewha Womans University School of Medicine, 
Seoul, South Korea.
(10)Department of Medicine, Yeungnam University College of Medicine, Daegu, 
South Korea.
(11)Department of Internal Medicine, Haeundae Baek Hospital, Busan, South Korea.
(12)Division of Hematology-oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, Korea 
University Guro Hospital, Seoul, South Korea.
(13)Department of Hemato-Oncology, Korea Institute of Radiological and Medical 
Sciences, Seoul, South Korea.
(14)Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, Catholic 
University of Korea, Seoul, South Korea.

Patients with transplant-ineligible relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma 
(RRMM) have a short life expectancy, especially when they have failed both the 
proteasome inhibitor and immunomodulator therapies. This study aimed to assess 
the efficacy and safety of pomalidomide, cyclophosphamide, and dexamethasone 
(PCd) in elderly patients with RRMM. This phase 2 clinical trial recruited 55 
elderly patients with RRMM. The patients underwent a 28-day treatment cycle: 
pomalidomide (4 mg/day on days 1-21, administered orally) and cyclophosphamide 
(400âmg/day on days 1, 8, and 15; administered orally) plus dexamethasone. The 
median (range) age of the patients was 73.3 (64-86) years, and 8 (14.5%) 
patients who wereââ¥â80âyears old. Eight (14.5%) and 31 (56.4%) patients 
exhibited stage III (revised international staging system) and frail status 
(simplified frailty scale), respectively. The overall response rate (ORR) and 
clinical benefit rate (CBR) of PCd therapy were 58.2% and 72.7%, respectively. 
The median PFS and median overall survival (OS) were 6.90âmonths (95% CI, 
4.7-9.0) and 18.48âmonths (95% CI, 9.4-27.6), respectively. The incidence rate 
of gradeââ¥â3 non-hematological toxicities was 70.8%. In particular, the 
incidence rate of primary infection was 45.4%, including 21.8% for pneumonia, 
9.0% for sepsis, and 14.6% for febrile neutropenia. In conclusion, PCd is an 
effective regimen for elderly patients with RRMM who had failed both bortezomib 
and lenalidomide treatments, but in whom the treatment-associated infection is 
the main cause of morbidity and mortality.

Â© 2020 The Authors. American Journal of Hematology published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.25726
PMCID: PMC7983889
PMID: 31919872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


763. Front Psychiatry. 2019 Dec 6;10:855. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2019.00855.
eCollection  2019.

Dying Too Soon: Excess Mortality in Severe Mental Illness.

de Mooij LD(1), Kikkert M(1), Theunissen J(2), Beekman ATF(2)(3), de Haan 
L(1)(4), Duurkoop PWRA(1), Van HL(1), Dekker JJM(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Research, Arkin Mental Health Institute, Amsterdam, 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Research, GGZ inGeest Mental Health Institute, Amsterdam, 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, VU-University Medical Centre, Amsterdam, 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(5)Department of Clinical Psychology, VU-University Medical Centre, Amsterdam, 
Netherlands.

Aims: We aimed to identify baseline predictors of mortality in patients with a 
severe mental illness (SMI) over a 6-year period and to describe mortality rates 
as standardised mortality ratios (SMRs). We hypothesised that cardiovascular 
diseases, older age, cigarette smoking, more severe psychiatric symptoms and 
more severe psychotropic side effects, and alcohol or drug use were independent 
risk factors for mortality. Method: Medical examinations were conducted at 
baseline in a cohort of 322 SMI patients. SMRs were estimated after 6 years and 
an evaluation was made of the impact of a wide range of variables on survival 
time. Results: Almost 11% of the SMI patients had died at the end of the study 
period. All-cause SMRs were 4.51 (95% CI 3.07-5.95) for all SMI patients (4.89, 
95% CI 2.97-6.80 for men, and 3.94, 95% CI 1.78-6.10 for women). Natural causes 
accounted for 86% of excess mortality and unnatural causes for 14%. 
Cardiovascular disease was a major contributor to this excess mortality. 
Multivariate Cox regression analyses showed that premature death was associated 
with a longer history of tobacco use (HR: 1.03, 95% CI 1.02-1.03) and more 
severe symptoms of disorganisation (HR: 2.36, 95% CI 2.21-2.52). Conclusions: 
The high SMR and the incidence of cardiovascular disease-related death in SMI 
patients in our study justify concern. This study underscores the urgent need 
for interventions to reduce excess mortality in patients with SMI.

Copyright Â© 2019 de Mooij, Kikkert, Theunissen, Beekman, de Haan, Duurkoop, Van 
and Dekker.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2019.00855
PMCID: PMC6918821
PMID: 31920734


764. Front Neurol. 2019 Dec 10;10:1234. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2019.01234.
eCollection  2019.

Use of Fatigue Index as a Measure of Local Muscle Fatigability in Ryanodine 
Receptor Isoform-1-Related Myopathies.

Witherspoon JW(1), Rekant JS(2), Wakim PG(3), Vasavada R(2), Waite M(2), 
Chrismer I(1), Shelton MO(1), Jain MS(1), Meilleur KG(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuromuscular Symptoms Unit, National Institute of Nursing Research, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, United States.
(2)Rehabilitation Medicine Department, Mark O. Hatfield Clinical Research 
Center, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, United States.
(3)National Institutes of Health Clinical Center, Biostatistics and Clinical 
Epidemiology Service, Bethesda, MD, United States.

Introduction: Individuals affected with ryanodine receptor isoform-1-related 
myopathies (RYR1-RM) commonly experience fatigability in the quadriceps, which 
may limit physical function and potentially diminish quality of life. 
Fatigability, in RYR1-RM, results from skeletal muscle injury secondary to 
dysfunction of the major skeletal muscle Ca++ channel. However, during 
fatigability testing, affected individuals did not always reach the point of 
local muscle fatigue as defined by a fatigue index (FATI) at 50% of peak torque. 
Surakka et al. compared three versions of FATI equations, which vary by the area 
under the force curve (AUC). By performing this comparison, they were able to 
determine the optimal equation in individuals with Multiple Sclerosis. Purpose: 
Using a similar comparison, we sought to identify the optimal FATI equation in 
the RYR1-RM population. Secondly, because local muscle fatigability might have 
an impact on independent living, this study also assessed change in local muscle 
fatigability over a 6-month time frame. Methods: Thirty participants were 
analyzed from the RYR1-RM natural history study and double-blind, 
placebo-controlled N-acetylcysteine (NAC) trial, NCT02362425. Twenty-seven had 
fatigability data, from isometric knee extension and flexion fatigability tests, 
available for the purpose of establishing a method for predicting FATI at 50% 
peak torque. For the natural history study, 30 participants were used to assess 
disease progression of local muscle fatigability achieved during the knee 
extension fatigability test, and 29 participants for the knee flexion 
fatigability test. Results: Surakka's equation 1, using the prediction approach, 
led to the smallest median error, the smallest square-root of uncorrected sum of 
squares, and the smallest average of the absolute value of the differences. No 
difference was observed in FATI at 50% peak torque between month 0 and month 6 
for extension (p = 0.606) and flexion (p = 0.740). Conclusion: Surakka's 
equation 1, with the prediction approach, was found to be the most accurate for 
imputing values when fatigue was not reached during a sustained knee isometric 
fatigability test in RYR1-RM. Furthermore, when used to assess 
fatigability-based disease stability, local muscle fatigability, in this RYR1-RM 
population remained stable.

Copyright Â© 2019 Witherspoon, Rekant, Wakim, Vasavada, Waite, Chrismer, Shelton, 
Jain and Meilleur.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2019.01234
PMCID: PMC6914942
PMID: 31920904


765. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2019 Dec 11;10:862. doi:
10.3389/fendo.2019.00862.  eCollection 2019.

Quality of Life in Patients With Cushing's Disease.

Santos A(1), Resmini E(1), MartÃ­nez MomblÃ¡n MA(1)(2), Valassi E(1), Martel L(1), 
Webb SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology/Medicine Departments, Hospital Sant Pau, Centro de 
InvestigaciÃ³n BiomÃ©dica en Red de Enfermedades Raras (CIBERER, Unidad 747), 
IIB-Sant Pau, ISCIII and Universitat AutÃ²noma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Fundamental and Medico-Surgical Nursing Department, School of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, University of Barcelona, L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Spain.

Cushing's disease (and by extension, Cushing's syndrome) is a rare disease due 
to a chronic cortisol excess, which usually has an important impact on quality 
of life (QoL). It can lead to numerous comorbidities that can interfere with 
daily life, as fatigability, myopathy, bone loss and fragility, increased 
cardiovascular risk, depression, and cognitive alterations. Of note, 
psychological alterations (including depression and anxiety) occur often, and 
are an important determinant of impaired quality QoL. QoL scores using different 
questionnaires are poorer in comparison to healthy controls, other pituitary 
adenomas and some chronic diseases. Even if some improvements can be observed 
after successful treatment, recovery does not seem to be complete, and 
comorbidities persist. This persistent QoL impairment has been found using both 
generic and disease-specific QoL questionnaires, and is also reported by the 
patients themselves, when asked directly. Multidisciplinary teams are essential 
to improve patients' well-being. Clinicians should take into account the whole 
scope of clinical problems and address the different comorbidites associated 
with the disease. Screening in the psychological sphere, with further 
intervention if necessary, can be helpful in the management of these patients. 
Interventions and programs have shown promising results, although there is a 
need for further development of new strategies for the benefit of these 
patients.

Copyright Â© 2019 Santos, Resmini, MartÃ­nez MomblÃ¡n, Valassi, Martel and Webb.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2019.00862
PMCID: PMC6917662
PMID: 31920973


766. Front Plant Sci. 2019 Dec 20;10:1628. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2019.01628.
eCollection  2019.

TPLATE Recruitment Reveals Endocytic Dynamics at Sites of Symbiotic Interface 
Assembly in Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Interactions.

Russo G(1), Carotenuto G(2), Fiorilli V(2), Volpe V(2), Faccio A(3), Bonfante 
P(2), Chabaud M(4), Chiapello M(3), Van Damme D(5)(6), Genre A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural, Forest and Food Sciences, University of Torino, 
Torino, Italy.
(2)Department of Life Sciences and Systems Biology, University of Torino, 
Torino, Italy.
(3)Institute for Sustainable Plant Protection, National Research Council, 
Torino, Italy.
(4)LIPM, UniversitÃ© de Toulouse, INRAE, CNRS, Castanet-Tolosan, France.
(5)Department of Plant Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, Ghent University, 
Ghent, Belgium.
(6)VIB Department of Plant Systems Biology, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.

Introduction: Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis between soil fungi and the 
majority of plants is based on a mutualistic exchange of organic and inorganic 
nutrients. This takes place inside root cortical cells that harbor an arbuscule: 
a highly branched intracellular fungal hypha enveloped by an extension of the 
host cell membrane-the perifungal membrane-which outlines a specialized 
symbiotic interface compartment. The perifungal membrane develops around each 
intracellular hypha as the symbiotic fungus proceeds across the root tissues; 
its biogenesis is the result of an extensive exocytic process and shows a few 
similarities with cell plate insertion which occurs at the end of somatic 
cytokinesis. Materials and Methods: We here analyzed the subcellular 
localization of a GFP fusion with TPLATE, a subunit of the endocytic TPLATE 
complex (TPC), a central actor in plant clathrin-mediated endocytosis with a 
role in cell plate anchoring with the parental plasma membrane. Results: Our 
observations demonstrate that Daucus carota and Medicago truncatula root organ 
cultures expressing a 35S::AtTPLATE-GFP construct accumulate strong fluorescent 
green signal at sites of symbiotic interface construction, along recently formed 
perifungal membranes and at sites of cell-to-cell hyphal passage between 
adjacent cortical cells, where the perifungal membrane fuses with the 
plasmalemma. Discussion: Our results strongly suggest that TPC-mediated 
endocytic processes are active during perifungal membrane interface 
biogenesis-alongside exocytic transport. This novel conclusion, which might be 
correlated to the accumulation of late endosomes in the vicinity of the 
developing interface, hints at the involvement of TPC-dependent membrane 
remodeling during the intracellular accommodation of AM fungi.

Copyright Â© 2019 Russo, Carotenuto, Fiorilli, Volpe, Faccio, Bonfante, Chabaud, 
Chiapello, Van Damme and Genre.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2019.01628
PMCID: PMC6934022
PMID: 31921269


767. J Proteome Res. 2020 Feb 7;19(2):962-972. doi:
10.1021/acs.jproteome.9b00853.  Epub 2020 Jan 24.

Aspirin Reshapes Acetylomes in Inflammatory and Cancer Cells via CoA-Dependent 
and CoA-Independent Pathways.

Guo L(1)(2), Gao J(1)(2), Gao Y(1)(2), Zhu Z(1), Zhang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Interdisciplinary Research Center on Biology and Chemistry , Shanghai 
Institute of Organic Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences , 26 Qiuyue Road , 
Pudong, Shanghai 201210 , China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences , Beijing 100049 , China.

Aspirin, or acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), is the most widely used medication to 
relieve pain, fever, and inflammation. Recent studies have revealed new benefits 
of aspirin, including reduction of heart attack and stroke, anticancer, and life 
extension. Despite the profound effects of aspirin, the mechanism of its action 
remains to be elucidated. Here, we used deuterium-labeled aspirin (D-aspirin) 
together with mass spectrometry-based acetylomic analysis, termed DAcMS, to 
investigate the landscape of protein acetylation induced by aspirin. The DAcMS 
revealed the acetylomes of lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammatory BV2 cells and 
colon cancer HCT116 cells. The acetylation level was substantially induced upon 
aspirin treatment in both cell lines. In total, we identified 17,003 acetylation 
sites on 4623 proteins in BV2 cells and 16,366 acetylated sites corresponding to 
4702 acetylated proteins in HCT116 cells. Importantly, functional analyses of 
these aspirin-induced acetylated proteins suggested that they were highly 
enriched in many key biological categories, which function importantly in 
inflammatory response. We further demonstrated that aspirin acetylates proteins 
through both acetyl-CoA-dependent and acetyl-CoA-independent pathways, and the 
accessible lysine residues at the protein surface are major acetylation targets 
of aspirin. Hence, our study provides the comprehensive atlas of aspirin-induced 
acetylome under disease conditions. This knowledge proffers new insight into the 
aspirin-directed acetylome and perhaps new drug target sites relevant to human 
cancer and inflammatory diseases. The MS data of this study have been deposited 
under the accession number IPX0001923000 at iProX.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jproteome.9b00853
PMID: 31922419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. J Agric Food Chem. 2020 Feb 5;68(5):1226-1236. doi:
10.1021/acs.jafc.9b07292.  Epub 2020 Jan 21.

Effects of Fumigation with Allyl Isothiocyanate on Soil Microbial Diversity and 
Community Structure of Tomato.

Zhu J(1), Ren Z(2), Huang B(1), Cao A(1), Wang Q(1), Yan D(1), Ouyang C(1), Wu 
J(1), Li Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Plant Protection , Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences , 
Beijing 100193 , China.
(2)National Agricultural Technology Extension Service Center , Ministry of 
Agriculture and Rural Affairs , Beijing 100125 , China.

As a substitute for methyl bromide, effects of allyl isothiocyanate (AITC) on 
nontarget microorganisms in soil are poorly understood. This study measured the 
half-life of AITC in the soil as well as its effects on the soil 
substrate-induced respiration (SIR) and on communities of soil bacteria and 
fungi. The results showed that AITC had a short half-life and a short-term 
inhibition of SIR; high-throughput sequencing analysis showed that AITC had less 
effect on bacterial than fungal communities. Fumigation reduced the diversity of 
soil bacteria temporarily, but stimulated the diversity of soil fungi in the 
long-term and significantly changed the structure of the fungal community. 
Following AITC fumigation there were significant increases in the relative 
abundance of probiotics such as Sphingomonas, Streptomyces, Hypocreales, 
Acremonium, Aspergillus, and Pseudallescheria that help to control plant 
diseases. Our study provided useful information for assessing the ecological 
safety of AITC.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.9b07292
PMID: 31922739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Soc Sci Med. 2020 Feb;246:112759. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2019.112759. Epub
 2019 Dec 24.

Explaining the spatial variation in American life expectancy.

Dobis EA(1), Stephens HM(2), Skidmore M(3), Goetz SJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Northeast Regional Center for Regional Development, The Pennsylvania State 
University, University Park, PA, United States. Electronic address: 
edobis@psu.edu.
(2)Resource Economics and Management, West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV, 
United States. Electronic address: heather.stephens@mail.wvu.edu.
(3)Department of Agricultural, Food, and Resource Economics and North Central 
Regional Center for Rural Development, Michigan State University, East Lansing, 
MI, United States. Electronic address: mskidmor@msu.edu.
(4)Department of Agricultural Economics, Sociology, and Education and Northeast 
Regional Center for Regional Development, The Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park, PA, United States. Electronic address: sgoetz@psu.edu.

Since 1980, average life expectancy in the United States has increased by 
roughly five years; however, in recent years it has been declining. At the same 
time, spatial variation in life expectancy has been growing. To explore reasons 
for this trend, some researchers have focused on morbidity factors, while others 
have focused on how mortality trends differ by personal characteristics. 
However, the effect community characteristics may play in expanding the spatial 
heterogeneity has not yet been fully explored. Using a spatial Durbin error 
model, we explore how community and demographic factors influence county-level 
life expectancy in 2014, controlling for life expectancy in 1980 and migration 
over time, and analyzing men and women separately. We find that community 
characteristics are important in determining life expectancy and that there may 
be a role for policy makers in addressing factors that are associated with lower 
life expectancy in some regions.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2019.112759
PMID: 31923836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.


770. BMC Public Health. 2020 Jan 10;20(1):39. doi: 10.1186/s12889-020-8148-4.

Progression of the smoking epidemic in high-income regions and its effects on 
male-female survival differences: a cohort-by-age analysis of 17 countries.

Wensink M(1)(2), Alvarez JA(3), Rizzi S(3)(4), Janssen F(5)(6), Lindahl-Jacobsen 
R(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Interdisciplinary Centre on Population Dynamics, University of Southern 
Denmark, Odense, Denmark. mwensink@health.sdu.dk.
(2)Department of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark. 
mwensink@health.sdu.dk.
(3)Interdisciplinary Centre on Population Dynamics, University of Southern 
Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(4)Department of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(5)Population Research Centre, Faculty of Spatial Sciences, University of 
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(6)Netherlands Interdisciplinary Demographic Institute, The Hague, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Of all lifestyle behaviours, smoking caused the most deaths in the 
last century. Because of the time lag between the act of smoking and dying from 
smoking, and because males generally take up smoking before females do, male and 
female smoking epidemiology often follows a typical double wave pattern dubbed 
the 'smoking epidemic'. How are male and female deaths from this epidemic 
differentially progressing in high-income regions on a cohort-by-age basis? How 
have they affected male-female survival differences?
METHODS: We used data for the period 1950-2015 from the WHO Mortality Database 
and the Human Mortality Database on three geographic regions that have 
progressed most into the smoking epidemic: high-income North America, 
high-income Europe and high-income Oceania. We examined changes in 
smoking-attributable mortality fractions as estimated by the 
Preston-Glei-Wilmoth method by age (ages 50-85) across birth cohorts 1870-1965. 
We used these to trace sex differences with and without smoking-attributable 
mortality in period life expectancy between ages 50 and 85.
RESULTS: In all three high-income regions, smoking explained up to 50% of sex 
differences in period life expectancy between ages 50 and 85 over the study 
period. These sex differences have declined since at least 1980, driven by 
smoking-attributable mortality, which tended to decline in males and increase in 
females overall. Thus, there was a convergence between sexes across recent 
cohorts. While smoking-attributable mortality was still increasing for older 
female cohorts, it was declining for females in the more recent cohorts in the 
US and Europe, as well as for males in all three regions.
CONCLUSIONS: The smoking epidemic contributed substantially to the male-female 
survival gap and to the recent narrowing of that gap in high-income North 
America, high-income Europe and high-income Oceania. The precipitous decline in 
smoking-attributable mortality in recent cohorts bodes somewhat hopeful. Yet, 
smoking-attributable mortality remains high, and therefore cause for concern.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-020-8148-4
PMCID: PMC6954612
PMID: 31924192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


771. BMJ Open. 2020 Jan 9;10(1):e029596. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2019-029596.

'Not clinically effective but cost-effective' - paradoxical conclusions in 
randomised controlled trials with 'doubly null' results: a cross-sectional 
study.

Raftery J(1), Williams HC(2), Clarke A(3), Thornton J(2), Norrie J(4), Snooks 
H(5), Stein K(6).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Southampton University, Southampton, UK 
j.p.raftery@soton.ac.uk.
(2)University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.
(3)Division of Health Sciences, University of Warwick, Coventry, UK.
(4)Edinburgh Clinical Trials Unit, University of Edinburgh No. 9, Bioquarter, 
Edinburgh, UK.
(5)Medicine, Swansea University, Swansea, UK.
(6)PenTAG, University of Exeter Medical School, Exeter, UK.

OBJECTIVES: Randomised controlled trials in healthcare increasingly include 
economic evaluations. Some show small differences which are not statistically 
significant. Yet these sometimes come to paradoxical conclusions such as: 'the 
intervention is not clinically effective' but 'is probably cost-effective'. This 
study aims to quantify the extent of non-significant results and the types of 
conclusions drawn from them.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional retrospective analysis of randomised trials published by 
the UK's National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Technology 
Assessment programme. We defined as 'doubly null' those trials that found 
non-statistically significant differences in both primary outcome and cost per 
patient. Paradoxical was defined as concluding in favour of an intervention, 
usually compared with placebo or usual care. No human participants were 
involved. Our sample was 226 randomised trial projects published by the Health 
Technology Assessment programme 2004 to 2017. All are available free online.
RESULTS: The 226 projects contained 193 trials with a full economic evaluation. 
Of these 76 (39%) had at least one 'doubly null' comparison. These 76 trials 
contained 94 comparisons. In these 30 (32%) drew economic conclusions in favour 
of an intervention. Overall report conclusions split roughly equally between 
those favouring the intervention (14), and those favouring either the control 
(7) or uncertainty (9).
DISCUSSION: Trials with 'doubly null' results and paradoxical conclusions are 
not uncommon. The differences observed in cost and quality-adjustedlife year 
were small and non-statistically significant. Almost all these trials were also 
published in leading peer-reviewed journals. Although some guidelines for 
reporting economic results require cost-effectiveness estimates regardless of 
statistical significance, the interpretability of paradoxical results has 
nowhere been addressed.
CONCLUSIONS: Reconsideration is required of the interpretation of 
cost-effectiveness analyses in randomised controlled trials with 'doubly null' 
results, particularly when economics favours a novel intervention.

Â© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2019-029596
PMCID: PMC6955496
PMID: 31924631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors work part-time 
for the NIHR HTA programme as well as being independent academics. All but HW 
and AC are current members of the editorial board of the HTA monograph series. 
HW is director of the HTA programme. AC is a past member of the editorial board 
of the HTA monograph series. JR is employed part-time as a researcher by NETSCC, 
the secretariat which manages the NIHR HTA programme. Neither NIHR nor the HTA 
programme had any role in interpreting the results nor in preparing this paper 
for publication. NETSCC has taken responsibility for payment of the publication 
fee.


772. Strahlenther Onkol. 2020 Feb;196(2):182-192. doi:
10.1007/s00066-019-01549-z.  Epub 2020 Jan 10.

AÂ novel approach to SBRT patient quality assurance using EPID-based real-time 
transit dosimetry : AÂ step to QA with in vivo EPID dosimetry.

Moustakis C(1), Ebrahimi Tazehmahalleh F(2), Elsayad K(3), Fezeu F(4), Scobioala 
S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Muenster, Muenster, 
Germany. christos.moustakis@ukmuenster.de.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital of Cologne, Cologne, 
Germany.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Muenster, Muenster, 
Germany.
(4)Department of Neurology, Mittelmosel Clinic, Zell, Germany.

PURPOSE: Intra- and inter-fraction organ motion is aÂ major concern in 
stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT). It may cause substantial differences 
between the planned and delivered dose distribution. Such delivery errors may 
lead to medical harm and reduce life expectancy for patients. The project 
presented here investigates and improves aÂ rapid method to detect such errors by 
performing online dose verification through the analysis of electronic portal 
imaging device (EPID) images.
METHODS: To validate the method, aÂ respiratory phantom with inhomogeneous insert 
was examined under various scenarios: no-error and error-simulated measurements. 
Simulation of respiratory motions was practiced for target ranges up to 2â¯cm. 
Three types of treatment planning technique - 3DCRT (three-dimensional conformal 
radiation therapy), IMRT (intensity modulated radiation therapy), and VMAT 
(volumetricÂ modulated arc therapy - were generated for lung SBRT. AÂ total of 
54Â plans were generated to assess the influence of techniques on the performance 
of portal dose images. Subsequently, EPID images of 52Â SBRT patients were 
verified. Both for phantom and patient cases, dose distributions were compared 
using the gamma index method according to analysis protocols in the target 
volume.
RESULTS: The comparison of error-introduced EPID-measured images to reference 
images showed no significant differences with 3%/3â¯mm gamma evaluation, though 
target coverage was strongly underestimated. Gamma tolerance of 2%/2â¯mm reported 
noticeable detection in EPID sensitivity for simulated errors in 3DCRT and IMRT 
techniques. The passing rates for 3DCRT, IMRT, and VMAT with 1%/1â¯mm in open 
field were 84.86%, 92.91%, and 98.75%, and by considering MLC-CIAOâ¯+â1â¯cm 
(threshold 5%), were 68.25%, 83.19%, and 95.29%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates the feasibility of EPID for detecting the 
interplay effects. We recommend using thin computed tomography slices and adding 
sufficient tumor margin in order to limit the dosimetric organ motion in 
hypofractionated irradiation with preserved plan quality. In the presence of 
respiratory and gastrointestinal motion, tighter criteria and consequently using 
local gamma evaluation should be considered, especially for VMAT. This 
methodology offers aÂ substantial step forward in in vivo dosimetry and the 
potential to distinguish errors depending on the gamma tolerances. Thus, the 
approach/prototype provides aÂ fast and easy quality assurance procedure for 
treatment delivery verification.

DOI: 10.1007/s00066-019-01549-z
PMID: 31925465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Childs Nerv Syst. 2020 Mar;36(3):477-484. doi: 10.1007/s00381-020-04499-5.
Epub  2020 Jan 10.

Meet in the middle: a technique for resecting nasocranial dermoids-technical 
note and review of the literature.

Hidalgo J(1), Redett RJ 3rd(2), Soares BP(3), Cohen AR(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, The Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Radiology, University of Vermont Medical Center, Burlington, 
VT, USA.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA. alan.cohen@jhmi.edu.

INTRODUCTION: Nasal dermoids with intracranial extension are benign lesions that 
can have life-threatening consequences, as a nasal punctum may serve as a portal 
of entry for infection into the central nervous system. The surgical management 
of these lesions can be challenging, as the extracranial and intracranial cysts 
and sinus tract must be resected to prevent recurrence, and the surgery must be 
carried out with an acceptable esthetic result.
TECHNIQUE: The authors present a technique for the resection of nasocranial 
dermoids that eliminates the need to remove and replace the frontonasal segment. 
Working through a small frontal craniotomy enables the surgeon to drill out the 
sinus tract through the foramen cecum and inferiorly into the nose. This 
exposure eliminates the need to enter the frontal sinus, if it is present.
CONCLUSION: The extracranial punctum and tract are resected from below in a 
minimally invasive fashion that permits removal of the lesion without a 
disfiguring scar.

DOI: 10.1007/s00381-020-04499-5
PMID: 31925508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Adv Ther. 2020 Feb;37(2):869-882. doi: 10.1007/s12325-019-01199-8. Epub 2020
Jan  10.

Evaluation of the Clinical and Economic Burden of Poor Glycemic Control 
Associated with Therapeutic Inertia in Patients with TypeÂ 2 Diabetes in the 
United States.

Ali SN(1), Dang-Tan T(2), Valentine WJ(3), Hansen BB(4).

Author information:
(1)Novo Nordisk Inc, Plainsboro, NJ, USA. wsna@novonordisk.com.
(2)Novo Nordisk Inc, Plainsboro, NJ, USA.
(3)Ossian Health Economics and Communications, Basel, Switzerland.
(4)Novo Nordisk A/S, SÃ¸borg, Denmark.

INTRODUCTION: Therapeutic inertia refers to the failure to initiate or intensify 
treatment in a timely manner and is widespread in typeÂ 2 diabetes (T2D) despite 
the well-established importance of maintaining good glycemic control. The aim of 
this analysis was to quantify the clinical and economic burden associated with 
poor glycemic control due to therapeutic inertia in patients with T2D in the 
USA.
METHODS: The IQVIA CORE Diabetes Model was used to simulate life expectancy, 
costs associated with diabetes-related complications, and lost workplace 
productivity in US patients. Baseline glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels were 
7.0% (53Â mmol/mol), 9.0% (75Â mmol/mol), 11.0% (97Â mmol/mol) 13.0% 
(119Â mmol/mol), or 15.0% (140Â mmol/mol), with targets of 6.5% (48Â mmol/mol), 
7.0% (53Â mmol/mol), 8.0% (64Â mmol/mol), or 9.0% (75Â mmol/mol) depending on 
baseline HbA1c, across several delayed intensification scenarios (values above 
target were defined as poor control). The burden associated with intensification 
delays of 1, 2, 3, 5, and 7Â years was estimated over time horizons of 
1-30Â years. Future costs and clinical benefits were discounted at 3% annually.
RESULTS: In a population of 13.4Â million patients with T2D and baseline HbA1c of 
9.0% (75Â mmol/mol), delaying intensification of therapy by 1Â year was associated 
with a loss of approximately 13,390 life-years and increased total costs of US 
dollars (USD)Â 7.3Â billion (1-year time horizon). Longer delays in 
intensification were associated with a greater economic burden. Delaying 
intensification by 7Â years was projected to cost approximately 3Â million 
life-years and USDÂ 223Â billion over a 30-year time horizon.
CONCLUSION: Therapeutic inertia is common in routine clinical practice and makes 
a substantial contribution to the burden associated with typeÂ 2 diabetes in the 
USA. Initiatives and interventions aimed at preventing therapeutic inertia are 
needed to improve clinical outcomes and avoid excess costs.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-019-01199-8
PMCID: PMC7004420
PMID: 31925649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Cancer Epidemiol. 2020 Apr;65:101668. doi: 10.1016/j.canep.2020.101668. Epub
 2020 Jan 8.

Changes in lung cancer survival by TNM stage in the Basque country from 2003 to 
2014 according to period of diagnosis.

Mar J(1), Arrospide A(2), Iruretagoiena ML(3), ClÃ¨ries R(4), Paredes A(5), 
Elejoste I(5), Sala-Gonzalez MA(6), Ibarrondo O(2).

Author information:
(1)Unidad De GestiÃ³n Sanitaria, Hospital Alto Deba, MondragÃ³n, Gipuzkoa, Spain; 
Unidad De InvestigaciÃ³n AP-OSIs, Hospital Alto Deba, Arrasate-MondragÃ³n, 
Gipuzkoa, Spain; Instituto de InvestigaciÃ³n Sanitaria Biodonostia, San 
SebastiÃ¡n, Spain; Red de InvestigaciÃ³n en Servicios de Salud en Enfermedades 
CrÃ³nicas (REDISSEC), Bilbao, Spain. Electronic address: 
javier.marmedina@osakidetza.eus.
(2)Unidad De InvestigaciÃ³n AP-OSIs, Hospital Alto Deba, Arrasate-MondragÃ³n, 
Gipuzkoa, Spain; Instituto de InvestigaciÃ³n Sanitaria Biodonostia, San 
SebastiÃ¡n, Spain; Red de InvestigaciÃ³n en Servicios de Salud en Enfermedades 
CrÃ³nicas (REDISSEC), Bilbao, Spain.
(3)CoordinaciÃ³n de Programas de Salud PÃºblica y de Seguridad del Paciente. 
DirecciÃ³n General de Osakidetza, Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain.
(4)Pla Director d'Oncologia - IDIBELL Hospital Duran i Reynals Hospitalet de 
Llobregat, Spain; Dept. CiÃ¨ncies ClÃ­niques Universitat de Barcelona, 08908, 
Campus Bellvitge, Spain.
(5)Servicio de OncologÃ­a MÃ©dica, Hospital Universitario Donostia, Donostia-San 
SebastiÃ¡n, Spain.
(6)Servicio de OncologÃ­a MÃ©dica, Hospital Universitario Basurto, Bilbao, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: The objective of this study was to analyze the survival of 
patients with lung cancer by TNM stage in the 4-year periods 2003-2006, 
2007-2010 and 2011-2014, treated in the Basque Health Service, and to compare 
this with survival in an equivalent sample of the general population.
METHODS: A retrospective observational design was applied to cases from the 
Hospital Cancer Registry of Euskadi. A cohort of 11,635 patients had complete 
data for the following variables: TNM stage, age, sex, histology, date of 
diagnosis, vital status and date of death. Relative survival and Cox and 
parametric regression models were used to assess changes in survival.
RESULTS: The lung cancer 5-year survival probability decreased with increasing 
stage, from 50-65% in patients with stage I disease to 2-3% in those with stage 
IV disease. Comparing patients diagnosed from 2011-2014 and 2003-2006, we found 
that survival improved: (a) the risk of death (hazard ratio) in 2003-2006 was 
1.66 for stage I, 1.51 for stage II, 1.21 for stage III, and 1.10 for stage IV; 
(b) the 5-year relative survival increased from 11.0% to 17.8% in the period 
2011-2014; and (c) the years of life lost decreased significantly from 2003-2006 
to 2011-2014, varying between 6.16 (stage I) and 16.21 (stage IV).
CONCLUSIONS: Survival from lung cancer by stage in the Basque Country has 
lengthened significantly across all disease stages. Nonetheless, since we 
estimated that lung cancer patients still have significantly lower mean survival 
times than the general population, there is a need for more research to improve 
these outcomes.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canep.2020.101668
PMID: 31926455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest There are no 
conflicts of interest on the part of any of the authors of this study.


776. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2020 Jun;59(6):1195-1203.e4. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2019.12.373. Epub 2020 Jan 9.

Perspectives Regarding Hospice Services and Transfusion Access: Focus Groups 
With Blood Cancer Patients and Bereaved Caregivers.

Henckel C(1), Revette A(2), Huntington SF(3), Tulsky JA(4), Abel GA(5), Odejide 
OO(6).

Author information:
(1)Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, Newark, New Jersey, USA.
(2)Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center Survey and Data Management Core, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA.
(4)Department of Psychosocial Oncology and Palliative Care, Dana-Farber Cancer 
Institute, Boston, Massachusetts, USA; Division of Palliative Medicine, Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA; Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(5)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA; Division of Population 
Sciences, Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(6)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA; Division of Population 
Sciences, Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA. Electronic address: oreofe_odejide@dfci.harvard.edu.

CONTEXT: Patients with blood cancers have low rates of timely hospice use. 
Barriers to hospice use for this population are not well understood. Lack of 
transfusion access in most hospice settings is posited as a potential reason for 
low and late enrollment rates.
OBJECTIVES: We explored the perspectives of patients with blood cancers and 
their bereaved caregivers regarding the value of hospice services and 
transfusions.
METHODS: Between June 2018 and January 2019, we conducted three focus groups 
with blood cancer patients with an estimated life expectancy of six months or 
less and two focus groups with bereaved caregivers of patients with blood 
cancers. We asked participants their perspectives regarding quality of life 
(QOL) and about the potential association of traditional hospice services and 
transfusions with QOL. A hematologic oncologist, sociologist, and qualitatively 
trained research assistant conducted thematic analysis of the data.
RESULTS: Twenty-seven individuals (18 patients and nine bereaved caregivers) 
participated in the five focus groups. Participants identified various QOL 
domains that were important to them but focused largely on a desire for energy 
to maintain physical/functional well-being. Participants considered transfusions 
a high-priority service for their QOL. They also felt that standard hospice 
services were important for QOL. Bereaved caregivers reported overall positive 
experiences with hospice.
CONCLUSION: Our analysis suggests that although patients with blood cancers 
value hospice services, they also consider transfusions vital to their QOL. 
Innovative care delivery models that combine the elements of standard hospice 
services with other patient-valued services like transfusions are most likely to 
optimize end-of-life care for patients with blood cancers.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine. Published 
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2019.12.373
PMCID: PMC7239741
PMID: 31926969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURES No relevant financial conflict of 
interest


777. Aquat Toxicol. 2020 Mar;220:105402. doi: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2020.105402. Epub
 2020 Jan 3.

Impact of juvenile hormone analogue insecticides on the water flea Moina 
macrocopa: Growth, reproduction and transgenerational effect.

Hu XL(1), Tang YY(1), Kwok ML(1), Chan KM(1), Chu KH(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong 
Kong SAR, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong 
Kong SAR, China. Electronic address: kahouchu@cuhk.edu.hk.

The increasing quantities of insecticides that leach into water bodies severely 
affect the health of the aquatic environment. Juvenile hormone analogue (JHA) 
insecticides are endocrine disrupters that interfere with hormonal activity in 
insects by mimicking juvenile hormones (JHs). Because the structure and 
functions of methyl farnesoate in crustaceans are similar to the insect JHs, 
exogenous JHA insecticides may cause adverse effects on the growth and 
reproduction in crustaceans similar to those observed in insects. This study 
examined the toxic effects of two JHA insecticides, methoprene and fenoxycarb, 
on the water flea Moina macrocopa. The 24-h and 48-h LC50 values for fenoxycarb 
and methoprene were 0.53 and 0.32â¯mg/L and 0.70 and 0.54â¯mg/L, respectively. 
Chronic exposure to the two JHAs caused a series of toxic effects in M. 
macrocopa, including shortening of life expectancy, repression of body growth, 
reduction in fecundity, and disturbed the expression of genes involved in the JH 
signaling pathway, in cuticle development, and in the carbohydrate, amino acid, 
and ATP metabolic processes. Moreover, JHA exposure impaired the growth and 
reproduction of the offspring of M. macrocopa exposed to JHAs, even when the 
neonates were not exposed to the chemicals. In addition, changes in the 
expression of genes related to histone methylation indicate that epigenetic 
changes may promote transgenerational impairment in M. macrocopa. These results 
demonstrate the toxic effects of fenoxycarb and methoprene on non-target aquatic 
organisms. The damages done by these JHA insecticides to the aquatic environment 
is worthy of our attention and further studies.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2020.105402
PMID: 31927065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
