Functional Motor Scale Expanded (HFMSE; range of possible scores 0 to 66), 
compared to a 1.9-point decline on the HFMSE in the sham procedure group (P < 
0.01; n = 126). On all motor function scales used, higher scores indicate better 
function. Based on moderate-certainty evidence from two studies, the following 
interventions had no clinically important effect on motor function scores in SMA 
types II or III (or both) in comparison to placebo: creatine (median change 1 
higher, 95% confidence interval (CI) -1 to 2; on the Gross Motor Function 
Measure (GMFM), scale 0 to 264; n = 40); and combination therapy with valproic 
acid and carnitine (mean difference (MD) 0.64, 95% CI -1.1 to 2.38; on the 
Modified Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale (MHFMS), scale 0 to 40; n = 61). 
Based on low-certainty evidence from other single studies, the following 
interventions had no clinically important effect on motor function scores in SMA 
types II or III (or both) in comparison to placebo: gabapentin (median change 0 
in the gabapentin group and -2 in the placebo group on the SMA Functional Rating 
Scale (SMAFRS), scale 0 to 50; n = 66); hydroxyurea (MD -1.88, 95% CI -3.89 to 
0.13 on the GMFM, scale 0 to 264; n = 57), phenylbutyrate (MD -0.13, 95% CI 
-0.84 to 0.58 on the Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale (HFMS) scale 0 to 40; n 
= 90) and monotherapy of valproic acid (MD 0.06, 95% CI -1.32 to 1.44 on SMAFRS, 
scale 0 to 50; n = 31). Very low-certainty evidence suggested that the following 
interventions had little or no effect on motor function: olesoxime (MD 2, 95% 
-0.25 to 4.25 on the Motor Function Measure (MFM) D1 + D2, scale 0 to 75; n = 
160) and somatotropin (median change at 3 months 0.25 higher, 95% CI -1 to 2.5 
on the HFMSE, scale 0 to 66; n = 19). One small TRH trial did not report effects 
on motor function and the certainty of evidence for other outcomes from this 
trial were low or very low. Results of nine completed trials investigating 
4-aminopyridine, acetyl-L-carnitine, CK-2127107, hydroxyurea, pyridostigmine, 
riluzole, RO6885247/RG7800, salbutamol and valproic acid were awaited and not 
available for analysis at the time of writing. Various trials and studies 
investigating treatment strategies other than nusinersen (e.g. SMN2-augmentation 
by small molecules), are currently ongoing.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Nusinersen improves motor function in SMA type II, based 
on moderate-certainty evidence. Creatine, gabapentin, hydroxyurea, 
phenylbutyrate, valproic acid and the combination of valproic acid and ALC 
probably have no clinically important effect on motor function in SMA types II 
or III (or both) based on low-certainty evidence, and olesoxime and somatropin 
may also have little to no clinically important effect but evidence was of very 
low-certainty. One trial of TRH did not measure motor function.

Copyright © 2020 The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006282.pub5
PMCID: PMC6995983
PMID: 32006461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: RW: was involved as investigator at a 
participating centre in the trials on the safety and efficacy of 
cholest‐4‐en‐3‐one, oxime for children with SMA types II and IIIa (Bertini 2017; 
OLEOS), and is involved as an investigator in the monocentre placebo‐controlled 
trial of pyridostigmine in children and adults with SMA types II to IV (SPACE). 
She does not receive any funding from the pharmaceutical industry. WP: receives 
research support from the Prinses Beatrix Spierfonds, Stichting Spieren voor 
Spieren, Netherlands ALS foundation. His employer receives fees for consultancy 
services to Biogen, Avexis and Novartis. WP was an investigator at a 
participating centre in the trials on the safety and efficacy of 
cholest‐4‐en‐3‐one, oxime for children with SMA types II and IIIa (Bertini 2017; 
OLEOS), and is an investigator in the monocentre placebo‐controlled trial of 
pyridostigmine in children and adults with SMA types II to IV (SPACE). WB: none. 
FA: none. LB: serves on scientific advisory boards for the Prinses Beatrix 
Spierfonds, Thierry Latran Foundation, Biogen Idec and Cytokinetics; received an 
educational grant from Baxter International Inc; serves on the editorial board 
of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis and the Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery and 
Psychiatry; and receives research support from the Prinses Beatrix Fonds, 
Netherlands ALS Foundation, The European Community's Health Seventh Framework 
Programme (grant agreement number 259867), and The Netherlands Organization for 
Health Research and Development (Vici Scheme, JPND (SOPHIA, STRENGTH)). LB was 
an investigator at a participating centre in the trials on the safety and 
efficacy of cholest‐4‐en‐3‐one, oxime for children with SMA types II and IIIa 
(Bertini 2017; OLEOS) and is an investigator of the monocentre 
placebo‐controlled trial on pyridostigmine in children and adults with SMA types 
II to IV (SPACE). SI: Dr Iannaccone was involved in the trial of riluzole as one 
of the investigators and authors (Russman 2003). She was involved in a trial of 
the efficacy of creatine for children with spinal muscular atrophy types II and 
III as investigator and author (Wong 2007) and she was involved in a trial of 
the efficacy of riluzole (not published). She has received support for research 
from AveXis, Biogen and Scholar Rock for clinical trials in SMA patients and 
from Sarepta, Reveragen, Mallinckrodt, Fibrogen, and PTC Therapeutics for 
clinical trials in muscular dystrophy. She has been a consultant for AveXis, 
Biogen, Sarepta, Audentes, Catabasis and Genentech/Roche. AV: none known. He was 
involved as investigators at a participating centre in the trials on the safety 
and efficacy of cholest‐4‐en‐3‐one, oxime for children with SMA types II and 
IIIa (Bertini 2017; OLEOS), and is an investigator in the monocentre 
placebo‐controlled trial of pyridostigmine in children and adults with SMA types 
II to IV (SPACE).


22. J Control Release. 2020 May 10;321:49-58. doi: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2020.01.034.
 Epub 2020 Jan 30.

Intramolecular distance in the conjugate of urate oxidase and fatty acid governs 
FcRn binding and serum half-life in vivo.

Cho J(1), Park J(2), Kim S(3), Kim JC(1), Tae G(1), Jin MS(3), Kwon I(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Materials Science and Engineering, Gwangju Institute of Science and 
Technology, (GIST), Gwangju 61005, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Biomedical Science and Engineering, Gwangju Institute of 
Science and Technology (GIST), Gwangju 61005, Republic of Korea.
(3)School of Life Science, Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology (GIST), 
Gwangju 61005, Republic of Korea.
(4)School of Materials Science and Engineering, Gwangju Institute of Science and 
Technology, (GIST), Gwangju 61005, Republic of Korea; Department of Biomedical 
Science and Engineering, Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology (GIST), 
Gwangju 61005, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: inchan@gist.ac.kr.

Therapeutic proteins are indispensable for treatment of various human diseases. 
However, intrinsic short serum half-lives of proteins are still big hurdles for 
developing new therapeutic proteins or expanding applications of existing ones. 
Urate oxidase (Uox) is a therapeutic protein clinically used for treatment of 
hyperuricemia. Due to its short half-life, its application for gout treatment 
requires prolonging the half-life in vivo. Conjugation of a fatty acid (FA), a 
serum albumin (SA) ligand, to therapeutic proteins/peptides is an emerging 
strategy to prolong serum half-life presumably via neonatal Fc receptor 
(FcRn)-mediated recycling. FA conjugation was proven effective for peptides and 
small proteins (less than 28 kDa), but not for Uox (140 kDa). We hypothesized 
that the intramolecular distance in the conjugate of FA and Uox is a critical 
factor for effective FcRn-mediated recycling. In order to control the 
intramolecular distance in the conjugate, we varied linker lengths between Uox 
and palmitic acid (PA). There was a linear correlation between the linker length 
and serum half-life of PA-conjugated Uox (Uox-PA) conjugates. The longer linker 
led to about 7-fold greater extension of serum half-life of Uox in mice than the 
unmodified Uox. The trend in serum half-life extension matched well with that in 
the tertiary structure formation of FcRn/SA/Uox-PA in vitro. These results 
demonstrate that the intramolecular distance in the conjugate of Uox and FA 
governs the stable formation of FcRn/SA/FA-conjugated protein and serum 
half-life extension in vivo. These findings would also contribute to development 
of effective FAconjugated therapeutic proteins.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2020.01.034
PMID: 32006589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Cancer Treat Rev. 2020 Mar;84:101976. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2020.101976. Epub
2020  Jan 23.

Challenges and advances in cervix cancer treatment in elder women.

Kissel M(1), Rambeau A(2), Achkar S(3), Lecuru F(4), Mathevet P(5).

Author information:
(1)Radiation Oncology Department, Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France. 
Electronic address: manonkissel@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Centre François Baclesse, ARCHADE, Caen, 
France.
(3)Radiation Oncology Department, Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France.
(4)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, Georges Pompidou European Hospital, 
Paris, France.
(5)Gynecology Department, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois, Lausanne, 
Switzerland.

With population ageing, cancer treatments in elder patients is becoming a true 
public health care issue. There is an authentic dilemma between patient's 
frailty, residual life expectancy and the toll that take anticancer treatments. 
Since elder patients are almost always excluded from clinical trials, it is hard 
to get robust scientific data on the tolerability of oncologic treatments and to 
set in place recommendations. Cervix cancer is traditionally diagnosed in 
younger women but it has a 2nd incidence peak between 60 and 70 years old. 
Cervix cancer in elder patients is a subject to many questions in terms of 
screening and is a therapeutic challenge. This article reviews literature data 
on these different aspects, from screening to surgery, from radiotherapy to 
brachytherapy, from chemotherapy to supportive care, from immunotherapy to 
geriatric assessment. We tried to show how modern therapeutic innovations may 
benefit elder patients. Expected benefits in terms of efficacy and toxicity may 
overcome the long-lasting tendency to undertreatment in elder patients and 
improve their quality of life after cancer treatment. In 2020, there seems to be 
less and less reasons justifying that elder women with cervix cancer may not 
receive the appropriate treatment.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2020.101976
PMID: 32006796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


24. Soc Sci Med. 2020 Jan 20;247:112808. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2020.112808. 
Online ahead of print.

Epidemiological rage: Population, biography, and state responsibility in trans- 
health activism.

Hanssmann C(1).

Author information:
(1)San Francisco State University, Humanities Building, Room 315, 1600 Holloway 
Ave, San Francisco, CA, 94132, United States. Electronic address: 
chanssmann@sfsu.edu.

This article examines how social movements reconceptualized trans-health in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina. Looking ethnographically to medical and activist 
practice, the article analyzes "epidemiological biographies", or 
activist-produced community-based studies blending quantitative and narrative 
data. It draws on population health, feminist science studies, transgender 
studies, and social theory to discuss the circulation and implications of these 
publications. Specifically, it describes how epidemiological biographies 
disputed health behavioral models by defining state violence and criminalization 
as primary conditions endangering health and life expectancy among travestis and 
trans-people. The article analyzes how activist researchers made state violence 
legible through logics of population health, even as the concept of "population" 
also emerged from techniques of state control. In contrast with models that 
place individual behavior at the locus of health interventions, activists 
instead advanced interventions that contested state securitization and shifted 
resource distribution. Epidemiological biographies had a considerable effect on 
national trans-health politics, providing an evidentiary basis for several 
regulatory shifts. These studies emerged in part through collective political 
action that reformulated dominant modes of statistical aggregation. This 
statistical turn-which I call "statistical collectivization"-produced 
contradictory effects. At one level, it obscured differential conditions of 
criminalization and violence. At another, it directed attention to the markedly 
racialized, sexualized, classed, and gendered forms of subjugation that 
materialize in landscapes of trans-health, and prioritized materially 
distributive regulation over and above civil protections. Through these 
contradictory actions, social movements reformulated dominant notions of health 
by challenging state securitization and contesting state power.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2020.112808
PMID: 32007767

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.


25. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Apr 15;149:11-20. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.01.083.  Epub 2020 Jan 30.

Development of novel active packaging films based on whey protein isolate 
incorporated with chitosan nanofiber and nano-formulated cinnamon oil.

Mohammadi M(1), Mirabzadeh S(2), Shahvalizadeh R(3), Hamishehkar H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran; Biotechnology Research Center and Student Research 
Committee, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Department of Food Sciences, Tabriz Branch, Islamic Azad University, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(3)Research Center for Evidence Based Medicine, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(4)Drug Applied Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran. Electronic address: hamishehkarh@tbzmed.ac.ir.

Active packaging is designed to extend products shelf life by incorporating 
active components with biological properties in its structure. The main goal of 
this research was to develop a biodegradable whey protein isolate (WPI)-based 
film, incorporated with chitosan nanofiber (CSNF) and cinnamon essential oil 
(CiEO) (both emulsified and Nanostructured lipid carriers (NLC) form). Then, the 
physicochemical properties of developed bio-nanocomposite were fully 
characterized. Both water solubility and the water vapor permeability of WPI 
film decreased significantly (p < 0.05) by incorporating the CSNF into film 
structure. The good complexation between WPI and CSNF was confirmed by FTIR. 
Microstructure revealed that the fiber networks were well distributed throughout 
the films while the morphological heterogeneity and contributed to the reduction 
of the tensile strength were evident after addition of CiEO. These obtained 
results from SEM to be quite in accordance with FT-IR findings that confirmed 
the incorporation of NLCs into bio-nanocomposite structure have been through 
physical interactions. The film barrier properties to ultraviolet light were 
increased by adding all of nano-reinforcements. Moreover, the antibacterial 
activity of resulting films was enhanced by adding CiEO, especially NLC form. 
This study introduces a novel ecofriendly bio-nano composite in packaging 
industries for the shelf life extension of different perishable foods.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.01.083
PMID: 32007845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have no conflicts of interest to declare.


26. Work. 2020;65(2):391-399. doi: 10.3233/WOR-203091.

Cycling to work: Business people, encourage more physical activity in your 
employees!

Biernat E(1), Krzepota J(2), Sadowska D(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Tourism, Warsaw School of Economics, Collegium of World 
Economy, Warsaw, Poland.
(2)Institute of Physical Culture Sciences, Faculty of Health and Physical 
Education, University of Szczecin, Szczecin, Poland.
(3)Department of Physiology, Institute for Sport - National Research Institute, 
Warsaw, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Cycling to work has been promoted all over the world. Contemporary 
employers invest in human capital (create a friendly work environment, care 
about the quality of life and health of employees).
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to evaluate the popularity of cycling to 
work and the motivations and barriers to this activity.
METHODS: The study used data obtained from the survey Using cycling in everyday 
transportation conducted at the request of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. 
The data were collected by means of computer-assisted personal interviewing 
(CAPI).
RESULTS: A mere 9.9% of Poles commute to work by bike, but they cycle to work on 
a regular basis (68.6% of respondents do this several times a week for 1 to 6 
months). They mostly cycle to improve/maintain health and physical fitness and 
for reasons concerning environmental protection. According to 49.5% of 
respondents, the infrastructure at the workplace is insufficient for commuting 
by bike. A substantial problem is the lack of changing rooms or places to change 
clothes (44.0%) and no access to showers (22.2%). In the opinions of 66.7%, the 
promotion of regular commuting to work by bike requires extension of the cycling 
infrastructure.
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate the necessity of employers' investment in the 
infrastructure and cycling facilities.

DOI: 10.3233/WOR-203091
PMID: 32007982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2019;48(3-4):172-179. doi: 10.1159/000505397.
Epub  2020 Jan 31.

Why Not a Global Postural Reeducation as an Alternative Therapy Applied to 
Alzheimer's Patients in Nursing Homes? A Pioneer Randomized Controlled Trial.

Todri J(1), Todri A(2), Lena O(3).

Author information:
(1)Health Sciences Department, Universidad Catolica de Murcia UCAM, Murcia, 
Spain, jasemin.todri@gmail.com.
(2)Statistics Specialist Area. Economics Faculty, Universiteti Aleksander 
Xhuvani, Elbasan, Albania.
(3)Health Sciences Department, Universidad Catolica de Murcia UCAM, Murcia, 
Spain.

INTRODUCTION: The classical gymnastics has always given great importance to 
exercises of -rachis extension and abduction of the arms during deep inhalation 
to acquire a greater -thoracic capacity.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to organize the concentration and the 
self-limited capacity of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) thanks to the 
physical and -respiratory exercise modalities of global postural reeducation.
DESIGN: A randomized controlled trial was conducted.
SETTING: Nursing homes.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients with probable AD diagnosis.
INTERVENTION: The global postural reeducation method (GPR) was implemented for a 
total of 72 treatment sessionswith a frequency of 3 times a week, for 24 weeks 
consecutively.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The Neuropsychiatric Inventory, Mini Mental State 
Examination, Geriatric Depression Scale, Quality of Life in Alzheimer's Disease 
and Tinetti Scale and respiratory rate frequency (RSP/F) were applied.
RESULTS: Ninety elderly people participated in this study, precisely 50 women 
and 40 men aged 67-92 years (mean age = 81.17, SD = 5.24). The therapy had a 
significant effect on the difference between groups in all the outcomes (p < 
0.05 in all cases) with a large effect size with exception of the RSP/F (p > 
0.05).
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated a very good tolerance rate on behalf of the 
significant results achieved.

© 2020 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000505397
PMID: 32007991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2020 Feb 26;12(8):9528-9536. doi: 
10.1021/acsami.9b21929. Epub 2020 Feb 14.

π-Extension, Selenium Incorporation, and Trimerization: "Three in One" for 
Efficient Perylene Diimide Oligomer-Based Organic Solar Cells.

Wang K(1), Xia P(1), Wang K(1), You X(2), Wu M(2), Huang H(2), Wu D(1)(2), Xia 
J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemistry, Chemical Engineering and Life Science , Wuhan University 
of Technology , No. 122 Luoshi Road , Wuhan 430070 , China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Advanced Technology for Materials Synthesis and 
Processing, Center of Smart Materials and Devices , Wuhan University of 
Technology , No. 122 Luoshi Road , Wuhan 430070 , China.

Perylene diimide (PDI) and the vinylene-bridged helical PDI oligomers are 
versatile building blocks for constructing nonfullerene acceptors (NFAs). In 
this contribution, a benzene-cored star-shaped NFA, namely, TPDI2-Se, was 
designed and synthesized for organic solar cells (OSCs). The NFA with smaller 
π-conjugated blades, namely, TPDI-Se, was synthesized for comparison. Using the 
commercially available PTB7-Th as the electron donor, the best power conversion 
efficiency (PCE) of 3.62% was obtained for TPDI-Se-based OSCs. However, a much 
higher PCE of 8.59% was achieved for TPDI2-Se-based devices owing to the 
π-extension in the peripheral panels. Moreover, the photovoltaic performance of 
TPDI2-Se-based OSCs is also superior to those of the parent NFA TPDI2 (PCE of 
7.84%)- and the blade moiety PDI2-Se (PCE of 6.61%)- based ones. Additionally, a 
remarkable short-circuit current (Jsc) value of 17.21 mA/cm2 was obtained for 
TPDI2-Se-based OSCs, which is among the highest Jsc values reported in PDI-based 
OSCs. These results argue that the so-called "three in one" molecule design 
strategy of π-extension, selenium incorporation, and trimerization offers a 
robust approach to constructing high-performance PDI-based NFAs.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.9b21929
PMID: 32009378


29. J Aging Soc Policy. 2021 May-Jun;33(3):285-304. doi: 
10.1080/08959420.2020.1722895. Epub 2020 Feb 1.

Suitability of Social Services for the Older Persons: Analysis of Degree of Fit 
between Needs and Services.

Iglesias Souto PM(1), Real Deus JE(2), Dosil Maceira A(3), Mayo Pais ME(4), 
Taboada Ares EM(3).

Author information:
(1)Assistant Lecturer, Department of Developmental and Educational Psychology, 
Faculty of Psychology, Universidade de Santiago de Compostela-Spain, Santiago de 
Compostela, Spain.
(2)Professor, Department of Political Science and Methodology, Universidade de 
Santiago de Compostela-Spain, Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
(3)Professor, Department of Developmental and Educational Psychology, Faculty of 
Psychology, Universidade de Santiago de Compostela, Santiago de Compostela, 
Spain.
(4)Temporary Lecturer, Department of Developmental and Educational Psychology, 
Faculty of Psychology, Universidade de Santiago de Compostela-Spain.

Increased life expectancy coupled with decreased birth rates has led to a 
notable aging of the population. In the social care sector, resources for the 
older persons should be allocated by means of objective instruments that ensure 
an appropriate fit between older people's needs and the characteristics of the 
services. This paper analyzes the appropriacy of actual assignments of resources 
in a sample of 632 older users of social services, evaluating the degree of fit 
between these assignments and those made by a Decision Making Model (DMM) which 
is strictly based on an objective assessment of user's needs and 
characteristics. The results indicate that biopsychosocial variables included as 
predictors in the DMM are appropriate for ensuring that the needs of the older 
persons are met and resources are optimized. However, the current assignments of 
users to services cannot be explained by relying solely on these variables, 
suggesting that the allocation of users to services may be conditioned by 
factors that are different from those covered by the DMM.

DOI: 10.1080/08959420.2020.1722895
PMID: 32009562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Front Neurosci. 2020 Jan 17;13:1337. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2019.01337.
eCollection  2019.

Gait Generation and Its Energy Efficiency Based on Rat Neuromusculoskeletal 
Model.

Toeda M(1), Aoi S(2), Fujiki S(3), Funato T(4), Tsuchiya K(2), Yanagihara D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Graduate School of Engineering, 
Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.
(3)Department of Physiology and Biological Information, School of Medicine, 
Dokkyo Medical University, Tochigi, Japan.
(4)Department of Mechanical Engineering and Intelligent Systems, Graduate School 
of Informatics and Engineering, The University of Electro-Communications, Tokyo, 
Japan.

Changing gait is crucial for adaptive and smooth animal locomotion. Although it 
remains unclear what makes animals decide on a specific gait, energy efficiency 
is an important factor. It has been reported that the relationship of oxygen 
consumption with speed is U-shaped for each horse gait and that different gaits 
have different speeds at which oxygen consumption is minimized. This allows the 
horse to produce energy-efficient locomotion in a wide speed range by changing 
gait. However, the underlying mechanisms causing oxygen consumption to be 
U-shaped and the speeds for the minimum consumption to be different between 
different gaits are unclear. In the present study, we used a 
neuromusculoskeletal model of the rat to examine the mechanism from a dynamic 
viewpoint. Specifically, we constructed the musculoskeletal part of the model 
based on empirical anatomical data on rats and the motor control model based on 
the physiological concepts of the spinal central pattern generator and muscle 
synergy. We also incorporated the posture and speed regulation models at the 
levels of the brainstem and cerebellum. Our model achieved walking through 
forward dynamic simulation, and the simulated joint kinematics and muscle 
activities were compared with animal data. Our model also achieved trotting by 
changing only the phase difference of the muscle-synergy-based motor commands 
between the forelimb and hindlimb. Furthermore, the speed of each gait varied by 
changing only the extension phase duration and amplitude of the muscle 
synergy-based motor commands and the reference values for the regulation models. 
The relationship between cost of transport (CoT) and speed was U-shaped for both 
the generated walking and trotting, and the speeds for the minimum CoT were 
different for the two gaits, as observed in the oxygen consumption of horses. We 
found that the resonance property and the posture and speed regulations 
contributed to the CoT shape and difference in speeds for the minimum CoT. We 
further discussed the energy efficiency of gait based on the simulation results.

Copyright © 2020 Toeda, Aoi, Fujiki, Funato, Tsuchiya and Yanagihara.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2019.01337
PMCID: PMC6978804
PMID: 32009870


31. Open Access Maced J Med Sci. 2019 Sep 14;7(21):3559-3563. doi: 
10.3889/oamjms.2019.762. eCollection 2019 Nov 15.

Using Score for Neonatal Acute Physiology Perinatal Extension II (SNAPPE II) in 
Neonates with Acute Kidney Injury.

Naunova-Timovska S(1), Jordanova O(1), Babinkostova Z(1).

Author information:
(1)University Children's Hospital Ss. Cyril and Methodius University of Skopje 
Skopje Republic of Macedonia.

BACKGROUND: Acute kidney injury is a severe clinical condition. It is common in 
neonates in intensive care unit. It is defined as a sudden deterioration in 
kidney function resulting in derangements in fluid balance, electrolytes, and 
waste products. The score for neonatal acute physiology perinatal extension in 
critically sick neonates with kidney injury is a useful tool for assessing the 
severity of the disease.
AIM: This study aimed to determine the incidence of AKI and the role of SNAPPE 2 
score in predicting mortality and morbidity of kidney injury in neonates.
METHODS: The study was designed as a prospective clinical investigation 
performed in the period of three years, which included 100 neonates (50 with AKI 
and 50 without AKI) hospitalised in intensive care unit of University Clinic of 
Children Diseases in Skopje. The severity of the illness of hospitalised newborn 
infants was estimated with SNAPPE 2 score realised in the first 12 hours of 
admission to NICU. Medical data records of admitted neonates with AKI were 
analysed. The material was statistically processed using methods of descriptive 
statistics.
RESULTS: During the study period, 770 new born's were hospitalised in the 
intensive care unit due to various pathological conditions and 50 new born's 
were selected with AKI. The control group consisted of 50 neonates with 
comparable associated pathological conditions, but without kidney injury. The 
calculated prevalence of AKI in neonates was 6.4%. Most of the involved neonates 
in the study in both groups (AKI and non-AKI) were born at term (64% and 54%) 
with a predominance of male neonates (68% and 60%). The mortality rate was 
significantly higher in newborns with AKI than in the control group (36% vs 24%) 
(p < 0.01). The mean SNAPPE 2 score value in neonates with AKI was higher than 
in the control group (58.72 vs 40.0), and the difference was significant (p = 
0.00001). Difficult score level predominated in half (50%) of newborn infants 
with AKI, while median score level predominated in control group (42%). There 
was a significant difference between the mean score value in neonates with AKI 
and lethal outcome compared to neonates with AKI without lethal outcome (70.73 ± 
18.6 vs 40.2 ± 16.6) (p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSION: Acute kidney injury is a life-threatening condition with still high 
mortality rate. The severity of the illness of hospitalised neonates in an 
intensive care unit is estimated by SNAPPE 2 score. Also, the risk of mortality 
is estimated too, taking into consideration the fact that higher values of the 
score are associated with higher mortality. Appropriate treatment of neonates 
with severe kidney injury improves the outcome and reduces the mortality of the 
disease.

Copyright: © 2019 Silvana Naunova-Timovska, Olivera Jordanova, Zoja 
Babinkostova.

DOI: 10.3889/oamjms.2019.762
PMCID: PMC6986533
PMID: 32010376


32. Ther Adv Infect Dis. 2020 Jan 20;7:2049936120901395. doi: 
10.1177/2049936120901395. eCollection 2020 Jan-Dec.

The management of treatment-experienced HIV patients (including virologic 
failure and switches).

Cutrell J(1), Jodlowski T(2), Bedimo R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, VA North Texas Health Care System, Dallas, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, VA North Texas Health Care System and the University 
of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 4500 South Lancaster Road, 111-D, Dallas, 
TX 75216, USA.

Significant advances in the potency and tolerability of antiretroviral therapy 
(ART) have led to very high rates of virologic success for most who remain 
adherent to therapy. As a result, the life expectancy of people living with HIV 
(PLWH) has increased significantly. PLWH do, however, continue to experience a 
significantly higher risk of noninfectious comorbidities and chronic age-related 
complications, including cardiovascular disease and malignancies, which are now 
the biggest drivers of this excess morbidity and mortality. Therefore, in 
addition to virologic failure, the management of the treatment-experienced 
patient increasingly requires optimization of ART to enhance tolerability, avoid 
drug-drug interactions, and mitigate non-AIDS complications and comorbid 
conditions. This article will present principles of the management of virologic 
failure, poor immunologic recovery, and strategies for optimizing ART in the 
setting of virologic suppression.

© The Author(s), 2020.

DOI: 10.1177/2049936120901395
PMCID: PMC6974747
PMID: 32010443

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: Roger Bedimo has 
received research funding from ViiV Healthcare and Merck and Co. He has also 
served in ad hoc scientific advisory boards for ViiV Healthcare and Merck and 
Co. Tomasz Jodlowski and James Cutrell declare no financial conflicts of 
interest.


33. Front Oncol. 2020 Jan 17;9:1546. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2019.01546. eCollection
2019.

"Metastatic Cancer of Unknown Primary" or "Primary Metastatic Cancer"?

Kolling S(1), Ventre F(1), Geuna E(2), Milan M(3), Pisacane A(4), Boccaccio 
C(5)(6), Sapino A(4)(7), Montemurro F(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Investigative Clinical Oncology, Candiolo Cancer Institute, 
FPO-IRCCS, Candiolo, Italy.
(2)Multidisciplinary Oncology Outpatient Clinic, Candiolo Cancer Institute, 
FPO-IRCCS, Candiolo, Italy.
(3)Laboratory of Exploratory Research and Molecular Cancer Therapy, Candiolo 
Cancer Institute, FPO-IRCCS, Candiolo, Italy.
(4)Unit of Pathology, Candiolo Cancer Institute, FPO- IRCCS, Candiolo, Italy.
(5)Laboratory of Cancer Stem Cell Research, Candiolo Cancer Institute, 
FPO-IRCCS, Candiolo, Italy.
(6)Department of Oncology, University of Turin Medical School, Candiolo, Italy.
(7)Department of Medical Sciences, University of Turin, Turin, Italy.

Cancer of unknown primary (CUP) is an umbrella term used to classify a 
heterogeneous group of metastatic cancers based on the absence of an 
identifiable primary tumor. Clinically, CUPs are characterized by a set of 
distinct features comprising early metastatic dissemination in an atypical 
pattern, an aggressive clinical course, poor response to empiric chemotherapy 
and, consequently, a short life expectancy. Two opposing strategies to change 
the dismal prognosis for the better are pursued. On the one hand, following the 
traditional tissue-gnostic approach, more and more sophisticated 
tissue-of-origin (TOO) classifier assays are employed to push identification of 
the putative primary to its limits with the clear intent of allowing tumor-site 
specific treatment. However, robust evidence supporting its routine clinical use 
is still lacking, notably with two recent randomized clinical trials failing to 
show a patient benefit of TOO-prediction based site-specific treatment over 
empiric chemotherapy in CUP. On the other hand, with regards to a 
tissue-agnostic strategy, precision medicine approaches targeting actionable 
genomic alterations have already transformed the treatment for many known tumor 
types. Yet, an unmet need remains for well-designed clinical trials to 
scrutinize its potential role in CUP beyond anecdotal case reports. In the 
absence of practice changing results, we believe that the emphasis on finding 
the presumed unknown primary tumor at all costs, implicit in the term CUP, has 
biased recent research in the field. Focusing on the distinct clinical features 
shared by all CUPs, we advocate adopting the term primary metastatic cancer 
(PMC) to denominate a distinct cancer entity instead. In our view, PMC should be 
considered the archetype of metastatic disease and as such, despite accounting 
for a mere 2-3% of malignancies, unraveling the mechanisms at play goes beyond 
improving the prognosis of patients with PMC and promises to greatly enhance our 
understanding of the metastatic process and carcinogenesis across all cancer 
types.

Copyright © 2020 Kolling, Ventre, Geuna, Milan, Pisacane, Boccaccio, Sapino and 
Montemurro.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2019.01546
PMCID: PMC6978906
PMID: 32010631


34. J Prev Alzheimers Dis. 2020;7(1):56-64. doi: 10.14283/jpad.2019.50.

Revisiting the Hallmarks of Aging to Identify Markers of Biological Age.

Guerville F(1), De Souto Barreto P, Ader I, Andrieu S, Casteilla L, Dray C, 
Fazilleau N, Guyonnet S, Langin D, Liblau R, Parini A, Valet P, Vergnolle N, 
Rolland Y, Vellas B.

Author information:
(1)Florent Guerville, Institut du Vieillissement, Gérontopôle de Toulouse, 37 
allée Jules Guesde, 31000 Toulouse, France. Email: 
florent.guerville@chu-bordeaux.fr, Tel: 0033561145664. Fax: 0033561145640.

The Geroscience aims at a better understanding of the biological processes of 
aging, to prevent and/or delay the onset of chronic diseases and disability as 
well as to reduce the severity of these adverse clinical outcomes. Geroscience 
thus open up new perspectives of care to live a healthy aging, that is to say 
without dependency. To date, life expectancy in healthy aging is not increasing 
as fast as lifespan. The identification of biomarkers of aging is critical to 
predict adverse outcomes during aging, to implement interventions to reduce 
them, and to monitor the response to these interventions. In this narrative 
review, we gathered information about biomarkers of aging under the perspective 
of Geroscience. Based on the current literature, for each hallmark of biological 
aging, we proposed a putative biomarker of healthy aging, chosen for their 
association with mortality, age-related chronic diseases, frailty and/or 
functional loss. We also discussed how they could be validated as useful 
predictive biomarkers.

DOI: 10.14283/jpad.2019.50
PMID: 32010927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest to 
disclose.


35. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2020 Jun;35(6):617-625. doi: 10.1002/gps.5278. Epub
 2020 Feb 23.

Frailty as a predictor of mortality in older adults within 5 years of 
psychiatric admission.

Benraad CEM(1)(2), Haaksma ML(1), Karlietis MHJ(2)(3), Oude Voshaar RC(4), 
Spijker J(5)(6), Melis RJF(1), Olde Rikkert MGM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine/Radboudumc Alzheimer Centre, Donders 
Institute for Medical Neurosciences, Radboud University Medical Centre, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Geriatric Psychiatry, Pro Persona Mental Health Care, Nijmegen, 
The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Slingeland Ziekenhuis, Doetinchem, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, University of Groningen and University Medical 
Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(5)Depression Expertise Centre, Pro Persona Mental Health Care, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands.
(6)Behavioral Science Institute, Radboud University, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: Older adults with psychiatric disorders have a substantially lower 
life expectancy than age-matched controls. Knowledge of risk factors may lead to 
targeting treatment and interventions to reduce this gap in life expectancy. In 
this study, we investigated whether frailty independently predicts mortality in 
older patients following an acute admission to a geriatric psychiatry hospital.
METHODS: Clinical cohort study with a 5-year follow-up of 120 older patients 
admitted to a psychiatric hospital between February 2009 and September 2010. On 
admission, we assessed frailty with a frailty index (FI). We applied Cox 
regression analyses with time to death as the dependent variable, to examine 
whether the FI was a predictor for mortality, adjusted for age, sex, level of 
education, multimorbidity (Cumulative Illness Rating Scale for Geriatrics, 
CIRS-G scores), functional status (Barthel Index), neuropsychiatric symptoms 
(NPS), and severity of psychiatric symptoms at admission (Clinical Global 
Impressions Scale of Severity).
RESULTS: Of the 120 patients, 63 (53%) patients were frail (FI ≥ 0.25), and 59 
(49%) had died within 5 years. The FI predicted mortality with a hazard ratio 
(HR) of 1.78 (95% CI, 1.06-2.98) per 0.1 point increase, independent of the 
covariates. Co-morbidity measured by the CIRS-G and functional status measured 
by the Barthel Index were not significantly associated.
CONCLUSIONS: Frailty was a strong predictor of mortality, independent of age, 
gender, multimorbidity, and functional status. This implies that frailty may be 
helpful in targeting inpatient psychiatric treatment and aftercare according to 
patients' life expectancy.

© 2020 The Authors. International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry published by 
John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.5278
PMCID: PMC7317407
PMID: 32011030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


36. J Int AIDS Soc. 2020 Feb;23(2):e25449. doi: 10.1002/jia2.25449.

The challenge of HIV treatment in an era of polypharmacy.

Back D(1), Marzolini C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Clinical Pharmacology, University of Liverpool, 
Liverpool, United Kingdom.
(2)Division of Infectious Diseases and Hospital Epidemiology, Departments of 
Medicine and Clinical Research, University Hospital of Basel and University of 
Basel, Basel, Switzerland.

INTRODUCTION: The availability of potent antiretroviral therapy has transformed 
HIV infection into a chronic disease such that people living with HIV (PLWH) 
have a near normal life expectancy. However, there are continuing challenges in 
managing HIV infection, particularly in older patients, who often experience 
age-related comorbidities resulting in complex polypharmacy and an increased 
risk for drug-drug interactions. Furthermore, age-related physiological changes 
may affect the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of both antiretrovirals and 
comedications thereby predisposing elderly to adverse drug reactions. This 
review provides an overview of the therapeutic challenges when treating elderly 
PLWH (i.e. >65 years). Particular emphasis is placed on drug-drug interactions 
and other common prescribing issues (i.e. inappropriate drug use, prescribing 
cascade, drug-disease interaction) encountered in elderly PLWH.
DISCUSSION: Prescribing issues are common in elderly PLWH due to the presence of 
age-related comorbidities, organ dysfunction and physiological changes leading 
to a higher risk for drug-drug interactions, drugs dosage errors and 
inappropriate drug use.
CONCLUSIONS: The high prevalence of prescribing issues in elderly PLWH 
highlights the need for ongoing education on prescribing principles and the 
optimal management of individual patients. The knowledge of adverse health 
outcomes associated with polypharmacy and inappropriate prescribing should 
ensure that there are interventions to prevent harm including medication 
reconciliation, medication review and medication prioritization according to the 
risks/benefits for each patient.

© 2020 The Authors. Journal of the International AIDS Society published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of the International AIDS Society.

DOI: 10.1002/jia2.25449
PMCID: PMC6996317
PMID: 32011104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Int J Audiol. 2020 Mar;59(3):166-172. doi: 10.1080/14992027.2020.1721577.
Epub  2020 Feb 3.

Global and regional needs, unmet needs and access to hearing aids.

Orji A(1), Kamenov K(2), Dirac M(1), Davis A(3), Chadha S(2), Vos T(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(2)Department of noncommunicable diseases, World Health Organization, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(3)The Ear Institute, University College London, London, UK.

Objectives: This article aims to estimate the global and regional needs, unmet 
needs and access to hearing aids, as well as the morbidity that can be averted 
by their use.Design: The study was based on Global Burden of Disease data. Study 
sample: Hearing impaired individuals "in need" of a hearing aid were defined as 
those in the moderate, moderately severe, and severe categories.Results: 
Globally, 401.4 million people are 'in need' of hearing aids. The large majority 
(83%) of them do not use hearing aids, with higher levels being in some regions 
such as the African region (90%). Accounting for hearing aid coverage reduced 
morbidity by 14.6% (95% UI 13.1- 16) - from 25 million YLDs to 21.3 million 
YLDs. It was estimated that if every single prevalent case in need would use a 
hearing aid, the burden of disease in this population would be reduced from the 
untreated 25 million YLDs to 10.3 million YLDs - a reduction of 59%.Conclusions: 
Development of innovative low-cost technologies with effective service delivery 
models, policy and regulatory changes to improve access, and combatting the 
stigma and lack of awareness are some of the potential solutions to improve 
access to hearing aids.

DOI: 10.1080/14992027.2020.1721577
PMID: 32011190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. J Med Econ. 2020 Jun;23(6):575-580. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2020.1724682. Epub 
2020 Feb 24.

Cost-effectiveness of six months versus 1-year adjuvant trastuzumab in HER2 
positive early breast cancer in Egypt.

Elsisi GH(1)(2), Nada Y(3), Rashad N(3), Carapinha J(4)(5), Noor AO(6), Almasri 
DM(6), Zaidy MA(3), Foad A(3), Khaled H(7).

Author information:
(1)HTA Office, L.L.C., Cairo, Egypt.
(2)Faculty of Pharmacy, Future University, Cairo, Egypt.
(3)Medical Oncology Department, Maadi Armed Forces Medical Compound, Oncology 
and Hematology Hospital, Cairo, Egypt.
(4)C&C, Inc., Boston, MA, USA.
(5)School of Pharmacy, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, USA.
(6)Pharmacy Practice Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, King Abdulaziz University, 
Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Medical Oncology Department, National Cancer Institute, Cairo University, 
Giza, Egypt.

Introduction: Breast cancer is the most prevalent cancer among women in Egypt. 
Trastuzumab is administered with chemotherapy for patients with HER2-positive 
advanced breast cancer (HER2 + ve ABC) in the metastatic and adjuvant settings 
resulting in improved treatment outcomes, and long-term follow-up. Some studies 
have evaluated whether equivalent outcomes can be achieved with reduced 
treatment duration. This study evaluates the cost-effectiveness of 6-month 
versus 1-year trastuzumab treatments from payer perspective over a 10 year time 
horizon.Methods: A half-cycle corrected Markov model was developed with five 
mutually exclusive health states; patient with HER2 +ve ABC, disease-free 
survival (DFS), local or regional relapse, metastatic relapse, and death. A 
cycle length of 6 months was applied, direct medical costs including cost of 
treatments, day-care, surgery, health states and follow-up visits were 
collected, and indirect costs such as lost productivity were not estimated. The 
transition probabilities and utilities were extracted from published literature, 
and deterministic sensitivity analyses were conducted.Results: Among the 
HER2 +ve ABC patient population in Egypt, the total QALYs of the 6-month 
trastuzumab were estimated to be 2.99 compared with 2.93 for the 1-year 
trastuzumab which resulted in a difference of 0.06 QALYs. The total costs were 
EGP 271,647 ($106,947) and EGP 381,248 ($150,097), respectively. These costs 
yielded an ICER of -109,600 EGP/QALY (-43,149 $/QALY) for the 6-month 
trastuzumab. The 6-month trastuzumab is a dominant strategy when compared to 
1-year trastuzumab, resulting in improved effectiveness at a reduced cost. All 
analyses results confirmed the dominance of 6-month trastuzumab and our model 
robustness.Conclusions: This study concluded that 6-month trastuzumab is a 
cost-effective option when compared to 1-year trastuzumab in patients with 
HER2 +ve ABC in Egypt. Our findings provide health care decision makers with 
additional insights to best allocate available resources concurrently with the 
improvement of the Egyptian patient's outcomes.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2020.1724682
PMID: 32011199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Int J Epidemiol. 2020 Oct 1;49(5):1712-1718. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyz276.

Reflection on modern methods: cause of death decomposition of cohort survival 
comparisons.

Canudas-Romo V(1), Adair T(2), Mazzuco S(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Demography, College of Arts and Social Sciences, The Australian 
National University, Acton, ACT 2601, Australia.
(2)Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, University of Melbourne, 
VIC, Australia.
(3)Department of Statistical Sciences, University of Padova, Padova, Italy.

Life expectancy is most commonly measured for a period (corresponding to 
mortality within a given year) or for a specific birth cohort. Although widely 
used, period and cohort life expectancy have limitations as their time-trends 
often show disparities and can mask the historical mortality experience of all 
cohorts present at a given time. The truncated cross-sectional average length of 
life, or TCAL, is a period measure including all available cohort mortality 
information, irrespective of whether all cohort members have died. It is 
particularly useful for comparing cohort mortality between populations. This 
study extends TCAL by disentangling causes of death contributions. The strength 
of the approach is that it allows identification of mortality differences in 
cohorts with members still alive, as well as identification of which ages and 
causes of death contribute to mortality differentials between populations. 
Application of the method to Japan shows that over the period 1950-2014 a major 
contributor to TCAL differences with other high-longevity countries was its 
lower cardiovascular disease mortality.

© The Author(s) 2020; all rights reserved. Published by Oxford University Press 
on behalf of the International Epidemiological Association.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyz276
PMID: 32011680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2020 Jun;35(6):601-609. doi: 10.1002/gps.5276. Epub
 2020 Feb 13.

Cost-effectiveness of an in-home respite care program to support informal 
caregivers of persons with dementia: A model-based analysis.

Vandepitte S(1), Putman K(2), Van Den Noortgate N(3), Verhaeghe N(1), Annemans 
L(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Department of Public Health and 
Primary Care, Interuniversity Centre for Health Economics Research (I-CHER), 
Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.
(2)Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, Department of Public Health, 
Interuniversity Centre for Health Economics Research (I-CHER), Vrije 
Universiteit Brussel, Brussels, Belgium.
(3)Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Department of Internal Medicine and 
Pediatrics, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate cost-effectiveness of an in-home respite care program in 
addition to standard community-based dementia care to support informal 
caregivers of persons with dementia compared with standard community-based 
dementia care.
METHODS: An age-dependent decision-analytic Markov model was applied from a 
third-party payer and a societal perspective projecting results of a 
quasi-experimental study over a time horizon of 5 years assuming a repetition of 
the program every 6 months. Additionally, to deal with uncertainty and to test 
robustness of the model scenario, one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
were conducted.
RESULTS: Implementing the program resulted in a quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) gain of 0.14 in favor of the invention group compared with controls and 
an incremental cost of 1270€ from the third-party payer perspective and of 1220€ 
from the societal perspective. Next, an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
9042€/QALY and of 8690€/QALY was found in the base case, from the third-party 
payer perspective and the societal perspective, respectively. The scenario, 
one-way sensitivity, and probabilistic analyses demonstrated robustness of the 
base-case results.
CONCLUSION: This cost-effectiveness analysis suggests that an in-home respite 
care program in addition to standard community-based dementia care is a 
cost-effective approach compared with standard community-based dementia care 
only. These findings provide more insight into the value of such services for 
the patient, the caregiver, and for society.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.5276
PMID: 32011773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Health Aff (Millwood). 2020 Feb;39(2):289-296. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.2019.01089.

Copayment Incentive Increased Medication Use And Reduced Spending Among 
Indigenous Australians After 2010.

Trivedi AN(1), Kelaher M(2).

Author information:
(1)Amal N. Trivedi ( Amal_Trivedi@brown. edu ) is a professor in the Department 
of Health Services, Policy, and Practice, Brown University School of Public 
Health, and a research investigator at the Providence Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center, both in Providence, Rhode Island.
(2)Margaret Kelaher is a professor in the Centre for Health Policy, Melbourne 
School of Population and Global Health, in Parkville, Australia.

Australian health policy has prioritized efforts to close the ten-year life 
expectancy gap between indigenous and nonindigenous Australians, a disparity 
largely driven by cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Because out-of-pocket 
spending poses a barrier to accessing medications for chronic conditions, in 
2010 the Australian government reduced or eliminated medication copayments for 
indigenous people with chronic disease or risk factors for chronic disease. In 
this quasi-experimental study we found that the copayment reductions were 
associated with a 39 percent relative increase in the use of medications and a 
61 percent reduction in out-of-pocket spending. Among indigenous Australians who 
qualified for the largest copayment reductions, overall use of medications 
increased by 156 percent-including increases of 26-109 percent in the use of 
lipid-lowering, hypertension, and diabetes medications. These findings suggest 
that Australia's novel strategy of targeted copayment reductions improved access 
to prescription medications among indigenous Australians, a population with a 
high burden of chronic conditions and marked social disadvantage.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2019.01089
PMID: 32011934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
