PMCID: PMC7046003
PMID: 32185286


581. Mediterr J Rheumatol. 2018 Sep 27;29(3):148-155. doi: 10.31138/mjr.29.3.148.
 eCollection 2018 Sep.

Diffuse connective tissue disorders in HIV-infected patients.

Christoforidou A(1), Galanopoulos N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, University General Hospital of Alexandroupolis, 
Thrace, Greece.
(2)Outpatient Department of Rheumatology, University General Hospital of 
Alexandroupolis, Thrace, Greece.

BACKGROUND: Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection has been associated 
with various autoimmune disorders.
AIM: To review the spectrum of diffuse connective tissue disorders (dCTD) in 
HIV-infected patients, in the context of highly active anti-retroviral therapy.
METHODS: Electronic search of the literature was performed using the terms HIV, 
AIDS, autoimmune, rheumatic/rheumatological, immune reconstitution inflammatory 
syndrome, Systemic Lupus Erythematosus, Diffuse Infiltrative Lymphocytosis 
Syndrome, Sjogren's syndrome, vasculitis, Behçet's disease, cryoglobulins, 
Henoch-Schönlein purpura, and antiphospholipid syndrome.
RESULTS: We reviewed the clinical manifestations, natural history and treatment 
of dCTDs, since the implementation of Highly Active Anti-Retroviral Therapy 
(HAART), and the emergence of new pathogenic mechanisms, such as the immune 
reconstitution inflammatory syndrome.
CONCLUSIONS: Caution in differentiating clinical and laboratory findings of 
dCTDs from non-specific manifestations of acute and chronic HIV infection is 
warranted due to the common presentation. Patients with chronic infection and 
access to HAART have a normal life expectancy and dCTDs, although rare, must be 
correctly addressed. HAART alone or combined with immunosuppressive therapy 
result in favourable outcomes.

© 2018 The Mediterranean Journal of Rheumatology (MJR).

DOI: 10.31138/mjr.29.3.148
PMCID: PMC7046049
PMID: 32185316


582. Adv Ther. 2020 Apr;37(4):1407-1424. doi: 10.1007/s12325-020-01287-0. Epub
2020  Mar 17.

Cellular Senescence as a Therapeutic Target for Age-Related Diseases: A Review.

Amaya-Montoya M(1), Pérez-Londoño A(1), Guatibonza-García V(1), 
Vargas-Villanueva A(1), Mendivil CO(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Universidad de Los Andes, Bogotá, Colombia.
(2)School of Medicine, Universidad de Los Andes, Bogotá, Colombia. 
carlosolimpo@gmail.com.
(3)Endocrinology Section, Department of Internal Medicine, Fundación Santa Fe de 
Bogotá, Bogotá, Colombia. carlosolimpo@gmail.com.

Life expectancy has increased substantially over the last few decades, leading 
to a worldwide increase in the prevalence and burden of aging-associated 
diseases. Recent evidence has proven that cellular senescence contributes 
substantially to the development of these disorders. Cellular senescence is a 
state of cell cycle arrest with suppressed apoptosis and concomitant secretion 
of multiple bioactive factors (the senescence-associated secretory 
phenotype-SASP) that plays a physiological role in embryonic development and 
healing processes. However, DNA damage and oxidative stress that occur during 
aging cause the accumulation of senescent cells, which through their SASP bring 
about deleterious effects on multiple organ and systemic functions. Ablation of 
senescent cells through genetic or pharmacological means leads to improved life 
span and health span in animal models, and preliminary evidence suggests it may 
also have a positive impact on human health. Thus, strategies to reduce or 
eliminate the burden of senescent cells or their products have the potential to 
impact multiple clinical outcomes with a single intervention. In this review, we 
touch upon the basics of cell senescence and summarize the current state of 
development of therapies against cell senescence for human use.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-020-01287-0
PMCID: PMC7140757
PMID: 32185730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Am J Transplant. 2020 Sep;20(9):2522-2529. doi: 10.1111/ajt.15861. Epub 2020
Apr  12.

Pain expectancy, prevalence, severity, and patterns following donor nephrectomy: 
Findings from the KDOC Study.

Fleishman A(1)(2), Khwaja K(1)(2), Schold JD(3), Comer CD(1), Morrissey P(4), 
Whiting J(5), Vella J(5), Kayler LK(6)(7), Katz D(8), Jones J(8), Kaplan B(9), 
Pavlakis M(1)(2), Mandelbrot DA(10), Rodrigue JR(1)(2); KDOC Study Group.

Author information:
(1)The Transplant Institute, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(2)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, 
USA.
(4)Transplant Center, Rhode Island Hospital, Providence, RI, USA.
(5)Maine Transplant Center, Maine Medical Center, Portland, ME, USA.
(6)Montefiore Einstein Center for Transplantation, Bronx, NY, USA.
(7)Regional Center of Excellence for Transplantation & Kidney Care, Erie County 
Medical Center, University of Buffalo, Buffalo, NY, USA.
(8)Organ Transplantation Program, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa 
City, IA, USA.
(9)Baylor Scott and White Health, Temple, TX, USA.
(10)Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA.

Postoperative pain is an outcome of importance to potential living kidney donors 
(LKDs). We prospectively characterized the prevalence, severity, and patterns of 
acute or chronic postoperative pain in 193 LKDs at six transplant programs. 
Three pain measurements were obtained from donors on postoperative Day (POD) 1, 
3, 7, 14, 21, 28, 35, 41, 49, and 56. The median pain rating total was highest 
on POD1 and declined from each assessment to the next until reaching a median 
pain-free score of 0 on POD49. In generalized linear mixed-model analysis, the 
mean pain score decreased at each pain assessment compared to the POD3 
assessment. Pre-donation history of mood disorder (adjusted ratio of means [95% 
confidence interval (CI)]: 1.40 [0.99, 1.98]), reporting "severe" on any POD1 
pain descriptors (adjusted ratio of means [95% CI]: 1.47 [1.12, 1.93]) and open 
nephrectomy (adjusted ratio of means [95% CI]: 2.61 [1.03, 6.62]) were 
associated with higher pain scores across time. Of the 179 LKDs who completed 
the final pain assessment, 74 (41%) met criteria for chronic postsurgical pain 
(CPSP), that is, any donation-related pain on POD56. Study findings have 
potential implications for LKD education, surgical consent, postdonation care, 
and outcome measurements.

© 2020 The American Society of Transplantation and the American Society of 
Transplant Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ajt.15861
PMCID: PMC7483675
PMID: 32185880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURES The authors of this manuscript have 
no conflicts of interest to disclose as described by the American Journal of 
Transplantation.


584. Osteoporosis: assessing the risk of fragility fracture.

London: National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE); 2017 Feb.
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence: Guidelines.

Osteoporosis is a disease characterised by low bone mass and structural 
deterioration of bone tissue, with a consequent increase in bone fragility and 
susceptibility to fracture. Osteoporosis leads to nearly 9 million fractures 
annually worldwide, and over 300,000 patients present with fragility fractures 
to hospitals in the UK each year. Fragility fractures are fractures that result 
from mechanical forces that would not ordinarily result in fracture, known as 
low-level (or ‘low energy’) trauma. The World Health Organization (WHO) has 
quantified this as forces equivalent to a fall from a standing height or less. 
Reduced bone density is a major risk factor for fragility fracture. Other 
factors that may affect the risk of fragility fracture include the use of oral 
or systemic glucocorticoids, age, sex, previous fractures and family history of 
osteoporosis. Because of increased bone loss after the menopause in women, and 
age-related bone loss in both women and men, the prevalence of osteoporosis 
increases markedly with age, from 2% at 50 years to more than 25% at 80 years in 
women. As the longevity of the population increases, so will the incidence of 
osteoporosis and fragility fracture. Fragility fractures occur most commonly in 
the spine (vertebrae), hip (proximal femur) and wrist (distal radius). They may 
also occur in the arm (humerus), pelvis, ribs and other bones. Osteoporotic 
fractures are defined as fractures associated with low bone mineral density 
(BMD) and include clinical spine, forearm, hip and shoulder fractures. 
Osteoporotic fragility fractures can cause substantial pain and severe 
disability, often leading to a reduced quality of life, and hip and vertebral 
fractures are associated with decreased life expectancy. Hip fracture nearly 
always requires hospitalisation, is fatal in 20% of cases and permanently 
disables 50% of those affected; only 30% of patients fully recover. Projections 
suggest that, in the UK, hip fracture incidence will rise from 70,000 per year 
in 2006 to 91,500 in 2015 and 101,000 in 2020. Direct medical costs from 
fragility fractures to the UK healthcare economy were estimated at £1.8 billion 
in 2000, with the potential to increase to £2.2 billion by 2025, and with most 
of these costs relating to hip fracture care. There are a number of therapies 
and treatments available for the prevention of fragility fractures in people who 
are thought to be at risk, or to prevent further fractures in those who have 
already had one or more fragility fractures. However, identifying who will 
benefit from preventative treatment is imprecise. A number of risk assessment 
tools are available to predict fracture incidence over a period of time, and 
these may be used to aid decision-making. These tools are limited in that they 
may not include all risk factors, or may lack details of some risk factors. 
Tools are dependent on the accuracy of the epidemiological data used to derive 
them and tools validated in other populations may not apply to the UK. Two 
tools, FRAX and QFracture, are available for use in the UK. It is not clear 
whether these tools are equally accurate and whether choice of tool should 
depend on circumstances. This short clinical guideline aims to provide guidance 
on the selection and use of risk assessment tools in the care of people who may 
be at risk of fragility fractures in all settings in which NHS care is received.

Copyright © NICE 2019.

PMID: 32186835


585. Expert Rev Anti Infect Ther. 2020 May;18(5):475-483. doi: 
10.1080/14787210.2020.1742109. Epub 2020 Mar 18.

The cost-effectiveness of a bedaquiline-containing short-course regimen for the 
treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in South Africa.

Mpobela Agnarson A(1), Williams A(2), Kambili C(1), Mattson G(1), Metz L(1).

Author information:
(1)Johnson & Johnson Global Public Health, New Brunswick, NJ, USA.
(2)Janssen Pharmaceutical South Africa, Pharmaceutical Division of Johnson and 
Johnson, Johannesburg, South Africa.

Background: Bedaquiline-containing regimens have demonstrated improved outcomes 
over injectable-containing regimens in the long-term treatment of 
multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB). Recently, the World Health 
Organization (WHO) recommended replacing injectables in the standard 
short-course regimen (SCR) with a bedaquiline-containing regimen. The South 
African national TB program similarly recommends a bedaquiline-containing 
regimen. Here, we investigated the cost-effectiveness of a 
bedaquiline-containing SCR versus an injectable-containing SCR for the treatment 
of MDR-TB in South Africa.Methods: A Markov model was adapted to simulate the 
incidence of active patients with MDR-TB. Patients could transition through 
eight health states: active MDR-TB, culture conversion, cure, follow-up loss, 
secondary MDR-TB, extensively DR-TB, end-of-life care, and death. A 5% discount 
was assumed on costs and outcomes. Health outcomes were expressed as 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs).Results: Over a 10-year time horizon, a 
bedaquiline-containing SCR dominated an injectable-containing SCR, with an 
incremental saving of US $982 per DALY averted. A bedaquiline-containing SCR was 
associated with lower total costs versus an injectable-containing SCR (US $597 
versus $657 million), of which US $3.2 versus $21.9 million was attributed to 
adverse event management.Conclusions: Replacing an injectable-containing SCR 
with a bedaquiline-containing SCR is cost-effective, offering a cost-saving 
alternative with improved patient outcomes for MDR-TB.

DOI: 10.1080/14787210.2020.1742109
PMID: 32186925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2020 Jul 2;16(7):1623-1629. doi: 
10.1080/21645515.2019.1711299. Epub 2020 Mar 18.

Cost-effectiveness of 2-dose human papillomavirus vaccination for 12-year-old 
girls in Zhejiang Province: implications for China's expanded program on 
immunization.

Luo Y(1), He H(2), Tang X(2), Wang S(2), Zhang J(1), Wu T(1), Chen Z(2).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Diagnostics and Vaccine Development in Infectious 
Diseases, School of Public Health, Xiamen University , Xiamen, China.
(2)Institute of Immunization and Prevention, Zhejiang Provincial Center for 
Disease Control and Prevention , Hangzhou, China.

BACKGROUND: The high cost and insufficient supply of HPV vaccines have 
substantially slowed their implementation in lower-income countries. This study 
aimed to assess the incremental cost-effectiveness of two doses of human 
papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination (bivalent 16/18 vaccine; 2vHPV) compared to a 
no-vaccination scenario and a three-dose scenario in one province in China.
METHODS: A static Markov model was used to model a lifetime cohort of 100,000 
girls aged 12 years at the start of vaccination. A two-dose vaccination schedule 
was assumed to be non-inferior to a three-dose schedule in terms of vaccine 
efficacy, and both vaccination schemes were assumed to provide lifelong 
protection. Incremental costs, health effects and incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios were used to measure the outcomes when comparing the different 
strategies.
RESULTS: Compared to no vaccination, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(Chinese yuan per quality-adjusted life year) of the two-dose vaccination 
strategy is 12,472, and the 2-dose strategy is calculated to be cost saving 
relative to the 3-dose vaccination strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: Introducing the 2vHPV vaccine would be highly cost effective at a 
per-dose vaccine price of CNY 500, which has implications for cervical cancer 
control in China and other resource-limited countries.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2019.1711299
PMCID: PMC7482859
PMID: 32186953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Chembiochem. 2020 Jul 1;21(13):1781-1792. doi: 10.1002/cbic.202000060. Epub
2020  Apr 2.

Isobiology: A Variational Principle for Exploring Synthetic Life.

Danchin A(1).

Author information:
(1)Stellate Therapeutics, Institut Cochin, 24 rue du Faubourg Saint-Jacques, 
75014, Paris, France.

Most developments in synthetic biology try to depart from life as we know it, 
attempting to create orthogonal constructions. Here, following a variational 
principle, I try to explore how slight changes in the buildup of cells reveal 
critical features of life's physics. In a first section, I suggest that we use 
stable isotopes of the atoms of life to see how living cells fare, beginning 
with life in heavy water. Subsequently, isotopes of the other main biogenic 
atoms are suggested as an extension of the variational principle, despite their 
likely very small influence on the course of biological activity. Finally, two 
atoms of the second row of Mendeleev's table, boron and fluorine are explored as 
a further extension of the principle. The use of the former is still in its 
infancy, whereas the latter, based on existing fluorinases, could open the door 
to a more general use of halogens in synthetic biology.

© 2020 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/cbic.202000060
PMID: 32187416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2020 Mar 6;54(3):306-313. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-9624.2020.03.012.

[Priority setting in scaled-up cancer screening in China: an systematic review 
of economic evaluation evidences].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Shi JF(1), Mao AY(2), Bai YN(3), Liu GX(4), Liu CC(1), Wang H(1), Cao MM(1), 
Feng H(5), Wang L(1), Bai FZ(1), Huang HY(6), Bai HJ(5), Zhu J(1), Yan XX(1), 
Zhang J(7), Ren JS(1), Li N(1), Dai M(1), Chen WQ(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of Cancer Screening, National Cancer Center/National Clinical Research 
Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and 
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100021, China.
(2)Department of Public Health Strategy Research, Institute of Medical 
Information, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical 
College, Beijing 100020, China.
(3)Institute of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of Public Health, 
Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, China.
(4)Department of Health Economics, School of Public Health, Harbin Medical 
University, Harbin 150086, China.
(5)Administration office of Science and Technology Projects, Chinese Academy of 
Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100730, China.
(6)Clinical Trials Center, National Cancer Center/National Clinical Research 
Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and 
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100021, China.
(7)School of Public Health, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union 
Medical College, Beijing 100730, China Corresponding author: Chen Wanqing, 
Email: chenwq@cicams.ac.cn.

Objective: The existed economic evaluations of cancer screening in Chinese 
population are almost all single-cancer focused, evidence on parallel comparison 
among multiple cancers is lacking. Thus, the aim of this study was, from a 
priority setting perspective, to compare the cost-effectiveness of six common 
cancers(colorectal cancer, breast cancer, liver cancer, lung cancer, esophageal 
cancer and stomach cancer) to facilitate policy making in future scaled-up 
screening in populations in China. Methods: Partially based on our previous 
single-cancer systematic reviews (colorectal cancer, breast cancer, liver 
cancer, and lung cancer), evidence of economic evaluations of cancer screening 
in populations in mainland China were systematically updated and integrated. The 
main updates include: 1) Stomach cancer and esophageal cancer were newly added 
to the current analysis. 2) The literature searching was extended to 8 
literature databases, including PubMed, EMbase, The Cochrane Library, Web of 
Science, CBM, CNKI, Wanfang Data, and VIP. 3) The period of publication year was 
updated to the recent 10 years: January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2018. 4) The 
study focused on populations in mainland China. Following the standard processes 
of literature searching, inclusion and exclusion from previous systematic 
reviews, the basic characteristics, evaluation indicators and main results of 
the included studies were extracted. All the costs were discounted to 2017 value 
using the by-year consumer price index of medical and health care residents in 
China and presented in the Chinese Yuan (CNY). The ratios of incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) to China's per capita GDP in 2017 were 
calculated (<1 means very cost-effective, 1-3 means cost-effective, >3 means not 
cost-effective). Given a specific indicator, the median value among all reported 
screening strategies for each cancer was calculated, based on which priority 
ranking was then conducted among all cancers when data available. Results: A 
total of 45 studies were included, 22 for breast cancer, 12 for colorectal 
cancer, 6 for stomach cancer, 4 for esophageal cancer (all conducted in 
high-risk areas), 1 for liver cancer and none for lung cancer (was not then 
considered for next ranking due to limited numbers of studies). When based on 
the indicator, the median ratio of cost per life-year saved to China's per 
capita GDP (reported in 12 studies), the lowest ratio (-0.015) was observed in 
esophageal cancer among 16 strategies of 2 studies (N=2, n=16), followed by 
0.297 for colorectal cancer (N=3, n=12), 0.356 for stomach cancer (N=1, n=4) and 
0.896 for breast cancer (N=6, n=52, P(75)=3.602). When based on another commonly 
used ICER indicator, the median ratio of cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
gained to China's per capita GDP (reported in 13 studies), the least cost was 
found in stomach cancer (0.495, N=3, n=8, P(75)=3.126), followed by esophageal 
cancer (0.960, N=1, n=4, P(75)=1.762) and breast cancer (2.056, N=9, n=64, 
P(75)=4.217). Data was not found for colorectal cancer. In addition, cost per 
cancer case detected was the most adopted indicator (32 studies). The median 
cost among all screening strategies for each cancer was 14 759 CNY for stomach 
cancer (N=5, n=7), 49 680 CNY for colorectal cancer (N=12, n=25) and 171 930 CNY 
for breast cancer (N=13, n=24), respectively. Data was not available for 
esophageal cancer and rare for precancer cases detected. Evidence related to 
cost per disability-adjusted life-year gained was not available. Conclusions: At 
China's national level and limited to the six cancers covered by the current 
study, the preliminary analysis suggests that stomach cancer and colorectal 
cancer were the most cost-effective target cancers and could be given priority 
in the future scaled-up screening in general populations. Esophageal cancer 
screening should be prioritized in high-risk areas. Breast cancer was also 
cost-effective in general but some of the intensive screening strategies were 
marginal. Data on liver cancer and lung cancer were too limited to conclude, and 
more well-designed studies and high-quality research evidence should be 
required. This priority ranking might be changed if other common cancers were 
involved analyses.

Publisher: 目的： 
从优先领域确定的角度，采用系统综述方法，分析比较中国6种常见癌症（结直肠癌、乳腺癌、肝癌、肺癌、食管癌和胃癌）的筛查经济性，为扩大人群覆盖的优先癌种决策提供建议。 
方法： 系统检索PubMed、EMbase、The Cochrane Library、Web of 
Science、中国知网、万方数据知识服务平台、维普中文科技期刊和中国生物医学文献数据库2009年1月1日至2018年12月31日收录的6种癌症筛查卫生经济学评价的中、英文献。对纳入研究的基本信息、评价方法、每检出1例癌症（或癌前病变）的成本、每挽救1个生命年的成本、每获得1个质量调整生命年的成本等进行摘录和比较。所有成本贴现到2017年，以对应筛查方案增量成本效果比与2017年我国人均国内生产总值（GDP）比值判定是否经济有效（1~3倍为经济有效，<1倍为非常经济有效）。计算同一癌种所有筛查方案的可获得指标的M值，并据此进行多癌种间的优先级排序。 
结果： 
共纳入45篇文献，包括22项乳腺癌、12项结直肠癌、6项胃癌和4项食管癌研究（肝癌仅1项，肺癌未见报道；信息量小不稳定，不参加后续排序）。以每挽救1个生命年的成本（12项）与人均GDP比值的M值排序结果提示，食管癌最经济（-0.015，研究人群均为高发区），其次为结直肠癌（0.297）、胃癌（0.356）和乳腺癌（0.896）；除乳腺癌（3.602）外，其他癌症的P(75)值均小于1。以每获得1个质量调整生命年的成本（13项）与GDP比值的M值排序结果提示，胃癌最经济有效（0.495，P(75)=3.126），其次为食管癌（0.960，P(75)=1.762）和乳腺癌（2.056，P(75)=4.217）。胃癌检出成本的M值最低，为14 
759元，其次为结直肠癌（49 680元）和乳腺癌（171 930元）。 结论： 
开展胃癌和结直肠癌筛查更经济有效，在一般人群中可优先考虑推广；食管癌筛查在高发区可优先考虑；乳腺癌筛查总体亦经济有效，但高成本方案需权衡；肝癌和肺癌现有证据较少，还需更多评价。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-9624.2020.03.012
PMID: 32187937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Curr Pharm Des. 2020;26(20):2353-2362. doi:
10.2174/1381612826666200318152530.

Diet and Neurocognition in Mood Disorders - An Overview of the Overlooked.

Balanzá-Martínez V(1)(2), Shansis FM(3), Tatay-Manteiga A(4), López-García 
P(2)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Teaching Unit of Psychiatry, Department of Medicine, University of Valencia, 
Valencia, Spain.
(2)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Salud Mental (CIBERSAM), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III (ISCIII), Madrid, Spain.
(3)Centro de Pesquisa Translacional en Transtorno del Humor y Suicidio 
(CEPETTHS), Programa de Pos Grado en Ciencias Medicas, Universidade do Vale do 
Taquari (Univates), Lajeado, Brazil.
(4)Service of Psychiatry, University General Hospital, Valencia, Spain.
(5)Department of Psychiatry. Faculty of Medicine, Universidad Autonoma de 
Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(6)Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Princesa (IIS Princesa), Madrid, Spain.

Bipolar disorder and major depression are associated with significant 
disability, morbidity, and reduced life expectancy. People with mood disorders 
have shown higher ratios of unhealthy lifestyle choices, including poor diet 
quality and suboptimal nutrition. Diet and nutrition impact on brain /mental 
health, but cognitive outcomes have been less researched in psychiatric 
disorders. Neurocognitive dysfunction is a major driver of social dysfunction 
and a therapeutic target in mood disorders, although effective 
cognitive-enhancers are currently lacking. This narrative review aimed to assess 
the potential cognitive benefits of dietary and nutritional interventions in 
subjects diagnosed with mood disorders. Eight clinical trials with nutrients 
were identified, whereas none involved dietary interventions. Efficacy to 
improve select cognitive deficits has been reported, but results are either 
preliminary or inconsistent. Methodological recommendations for future cognition 
trials in the field are advanced. Current evidence and future views are 
discussed from the perspectives of precision medicine, clinical staging, 
nutritional psychiatry, and the brain-gut-microbiota axis.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1381612826666200318152530
PMID: 32188376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. BMC Health Serv Res. 2020 Mar 18;20(1):230. doi: 10.1186/s12913-020-05089-6.

Identification of psychiatric patients with high mortality and low medical 
utilization: a population-based propensity score-matched analysis.

Wang JY(1), Chang CC(2), Lee MC(3), Li YJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Administration, China Medical University, No. 
91, Xueshi Rd., North Dist, Taichung City, 40402, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Changhua Christian Hospital, 135 Nanxiao St., 
Changhua City, Changhua County, 50006, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Medical Affairs, Landseed International Hospital, No. 77, 
Guangtai Rd., Pingzhen Dist, Taoyuan City, 32449, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Health Services Policy and Management, University of South 
Carolina, 915 Greene St, Columbia, SC, 29208, USA. yjwendyli@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The decreased life expectancy and care costs of mental disorders 
could be enormous. However, research that compares mortality and utilization 
concurrently across the major category of mental disorders is absent. This study 
investigated all-cause mortality and medical utilization among patients with and 
without mental disorders, with an emphasis on identifying the psychiatric 
category of high mortality and low medical utilization.
METHODS: A total of 570,250 individuals identified from the 2002-2013 Taiwan 
National Health Insurance Reearch Database consistuted 285,125 psychiatric 
patients and 285,125 non-psychiatric peers through 1:1 dual propensity score 
matching (PSM). The expenditure survival ratio (ESR) was proposed to indicate 
potential utilization shortage. The category of mental disorders and 13 
covariates were analyzed using the Cox proportional hazard model and general 
linear model (GLM) through SAS 9.4.
RESULTS: PSM analyses indicated that mortality and total medical expenditures 
per capita were both significantly higher in psychiatric patients than those in 
non-psychiatric patients (all P <.0.0001). Patients with substance use disorders 
were reported having the youngest ages at diagnosis and at death, with the 
highest 25.64 of potential years of life loss (YPLL) and relevant 2904.89 of 
ESR. Adjusted Cox model and GLM results indicated that, compared with anxiety 
disorders, affective disorders and substance use disorders were significantly 
associated with higher mortality (HR = 1.246 and 1.064, respectively; all 
P < 0.05); schizophrenia was significantly associated with higher total medical 
expenditures per capita (P < 0.0001). Thirteen additional factors were 
significantly associated with mortality or utilization (all P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Substance use disorders are the category of highest YPLL but notably 
in insufficient utilization. Health care utilization in patients with substance 
use disorders should be augmented timely after the diagnosis, especially toward 
home and community care. The factors related to mortality and utilization 
identified by this study merit clinical attention.

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-020-05089-6
PMCID: PMC7081626
PMID: 32188440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


591. J Neurol. 2020 Jul;267(7):1991-2001. doi: 10.1007/s00415-020-09770-y. Epub
2020  Mar 18.

'Minimal symptom expression' in patients with acetylcholine receptor 
antibody-positive refractory generalized myasthenia gravis treated with 
eculizumab.

Vissing J(1), Jacob S(2), Fujita KP(3)(4), O'Brien F(5), Howard JF(6); REGAIN 
study group.

Collaborators: Mazia CG, Wilken M, Barroso F, Saba J, Rugiero M, Bettini M, 
Chaves M, Vidal G, Garcia AD, De Bleecker J, Van den Abeele G, de Koning K, De 
Mey K, Mercelis R, Mahieu D, Wagemaekers L, Van Damme P, Depreitere A, Schotte 
C, Smetcoren C, Stevens O, Van Daele S, Vandenbussche N, Vanhee A, Verjans S, 
Vynckier J, D'Hont A, Tilkin P, Alves de Siqueira Carvalho A, Dias Brockhausen 
I, Feder D, Ambrosio D, César P, Melo AP, Martins Ribeiro R, Rocha R, Rosa BB, 
Veiga T, da Silva LA, Santos Engel M, Gonçalves Geraldo J, da Penha Ananias 
Morita M, Nogueira Coelho E, Paiva G, Pozo M, Prando N, Martineli Torres DD, 
Butinhao CF, Duran G, Suriane Fialho TA, Gomes da Silva TC, Maia Gonçalves LO, 
Pazetto LE, Cubas Volpe LR, Souza Duca L, Gheller Friedrich MA, Guerreiro A, 
Mohr H, Pereira Martins M, da Cruz Pacheco D, Ferreira L, Macagnan AP, Pinto G, 
de Cassia Santos A, Souza Bulle Oliveira A, Amaral de Andrade AC, Annes M, 
Duarte Silva L, Cavalcante Lino V, Pinto W, Assis N, Carrara F, Miranda C, Souza 
I, Fernandes P, Siddiqi Z, Phan C, Narayan J, Blackmore D, Mallon A, Roderus R, 
Watt E, Vohanka S, Bednarik J, Chmelikova M, Cierny M, Toncrova S, Junkerova 
Barbora Kurkova J, Reguliova K, Zapletalova O, Pitha J, Novakova I, Tyblova M, 
Jurajdova I, Wolfova M, Andersen H, Harbo T, Vinge L, Krogh S, Mogensen A, 
Vissing J, Højgaard J, Witting N, Mette Ostergaard Autzen A, Pedersen J, 
Erälinna JP, Laaksonen M, Oksaranta O, Harrison T, Eriksson J, Rozsa C, Horvath 
M, Lovas G, Matolcsi J, Szabo G, Jakab G, Szabadosne B, Vecsei L, Dezsi L, Varga 
E, Konyane M, Antonini G, Di Pasquale A, Garibaldi M, Morino S, Troili F, Fionda 
L, Saccà F, Previous, Filla A, Sub-Investigators, Costabile T, Marano E, 
Fasanaro A, Marsili A, Puorro G, Mantegazza R, Antozzi C, Bonanno S, Camera G, 
Locatelli A, Maggi L, Pasanisi M, Campanella A, Evoli A, Alboini PE, D'Amato V, 
Iorio R, Inghilleri M, Fionda L, Frasca V, Giacomelli E, Gori M, Lopergolo D, 
Onesti E, Frasca V, Gabriele M, Uzawa A, Kanai T, Kawaguchi N, Mori M, Kaneko Y, 
Kanzaki A, Kobayashi E, Murai H, Masaki K, Matsuse D, Matsushita T, Uehara T, 
Shimpo M, Jingu M, Kikutake K, Nakamura Y, Sano Y, Utsugisawa K, Nagane Y, 
Kamegamori I, Tsuda T, Fujii Y, Futono K, Ozawa Y, Mizugami A, Saito Y, Samukawa 
M, Suzuki H, Morikawa M, Kamakura S, Miyawaki E, Shiraishi H, Mitazaki T, 
Motomura M, Mukaino A, Yoshimura S, Asada S, Yoshida S, Amamoto S, Kobashikawa 
T, Koga M, Maeda Y, Takada K, Takada M, Tsurumaru M, Yamashita Y, Yoshida S, 
Suzuki Y, Akiyama T, Narikawa K, Tano O, Tsukita K, Kurihara R, Meguro F, Fukuda 
Y, Sato M, Okumura M, Funaka S, Kawamura T, Makamori M, Takahashi M, Taichi N, 
Hasuike T, Higuchi E, Kobayashi H, Osakada K, Imai T, Tsuda E, Previous, 
Shimohama S, Hayashi T, Hisahara S, Imai T, Kawamata J, Murahara T, Saitoh M, 
Shimohama S, Suzuki S, Yamamoto D, Ishiyama Y, Ishiyama N, Noshiro M, Takeyama 
R, Uwasa K, Yasuda I, Kim BJ, Lee CN, Koo YS, Seok HY, Kang HN, Ra H, Kim BJ, 
Cho EB, Choi M, Lee H, Min JH, Seok J, Lee J, Koh DY, Kwon J, Park S, Choi EH, 
Hong YH, Ahn SH, Koo DL, Lim JS, Shin CW, Hwang JY, Kim M, Kim SM, Jeong HN, 
Jung J, Kim YH, Lee HS, Shin HY, Hwang EB, Shin M, van der Kooi A, de Visser M, 
Gibson T, Casasnovas C, Alberti Aguilo MA, Homedes-Pedret C, Palacios NJ, Diez 
Porras L, Velez Santamaria V, Lazaro A, Diez Tejedor E, Gomez Salcedo P, 
Fernandez-Fournier M, Lopez Ruiz P, Rodriguez de Rivera FJ, Fernandez-Fournier 
M, Sastre M, Gamez Carbonell J, Sune P, Salvado Figueras M, Gili G, Mazuela G, 
Illa I, Cortes Vicente E, Diaz-Manera J, Querol Gutiérrez LA, Rojas Garcia R, 
Vidal N, Arribas-Ibar E, Piehl F, Hietala A, Bjarbo L, Sengun I, Meherremova A, 
Ozcelik P, Balkan B, Tuga C, Ugur M, Erdem-Ozdamar S, Bekircan-Kurt CE, Acar NP, 
Yilmaz E, Caliskan Y, Orsel G, Efendi H, Aydinlik S, Cavus H, Kutlu A, Becerikli 
G, Semiz C, Tun O, Terzi M, Dogan B, Onar MK, Sen S, Kirbas Cavdar T, Veske A, 
Norwood F, Dimitriou A, Gollogly J, Mahdi-Rogers M, Seddigh A, Sokratous G, 
Maier G, Sohail F, Jacob S, Sadalage G, Torane P, Brown C, Shah A, Sathasivam S, 
Arndt H, Davies D, Watling D, Amato A, Cochrane T, Salajegheh M, Roe K, Amato K, 
Toska S, Wolfe G, Silvestri N, Patrick K, Zakalik K, Katz J, Miller R, Engel M, 
Forshew D, Bravver E, Brooks B, Sanjak M, Plevka S, Burdette M, Cunningham S, 
Sanjak M, Kramer M, Nemeth J, Schommer C, Tinerney S, Juel V, Guptill J, 
Hobson-Webb L, Massey J, Beck K, Carnes D, Loor J, Anderson A, Pascuzzi R, 
Bodkin C, Kincaid J, Snook R, Guinrich S, Micheels A, Chaudhry V, Corse A, 
Mosmiller B, Kelley A, Ho D, Srinivasan J, Vytopil M, Jara J, Ventura N, Carter 
C, Donahue C, Herbert C, Scala S, Weiner E, Alam S, McKinnon J, Haar L, McKinnon 
N, Alcon K, McKenna K, Sattar N, Daniels K, Jeffery D, Freimer M, Hoyle JC, 
Kissel J, Agriesti J, Chelnick S, Mezache L, Pineda C, Muharrem F, Karam C, 
Khoury J, Previous, Marburger T, Kaur H, Dimitrova D, Gilchrist J, Agrawal B, 
Elsayed M, Kohlrus S, Andoin A, Darnell T, Golden L, Lokaitis B, Seelbach J, 
Muppidi S, Goyal N, Sakamuri S, So YT, Paulose S, Pol S, Welsh L, 
Bhavaraju-Sanka R, Tobon Gonzalez A, Dishman L, Jones F, Gonzalez A, Padilla P, 
Saklad A, Silva M, Nations S, Trivedi J, Hopkins S, Kazamel M, Alsharabati M, Lu 
L, Nozaki K, Mumfrey-Thomas S, Woodall A, Mozaffar T, Cash T, Goyal N, Roy G, 
Mathew V, Maqsood F, Minton B, Jones HJ, Rosenfeld J, Garcia R, Echevarria L, 
Garcia S, Pulley M, Aranke S, Berger AR, Shah J, Shabbir Y, Smith L, Varghese M, 
Shabbir Y, Gutmann L, Gutmann L, Jerath N, Nance C, Swenson A, Olalde H, Kressin 
N, Sieren J, Barohn R, Dimachkie M, Glenn M, McVey A, Pasnoor M, Statland J, 
Wang Y, Liu T, Emmons K, Jenci N, Locheke J, Fondaw A, Johns K, Rico G, Walsh M, 
Herbelin L, Hafer-Macko C, Kwan J, Zilliox L, Callison K, Young V, DiSanzo B, 
Naunton K, Benatar M, Bilsker M, Sharma K, Cooley A, Reyes E, Michon SC, Sheldon 
D, Steele J, Howard J Jr, Karam C, Traub R, Chopra M, Vu T, Katzin L, McClain T, 
Harvey B, Hart A, Huynh K, Beydoun S, Chilingaryan A, Doan V, Droker B, Gong H, 
Karimi S, Lin F, McClain T, Polaka K, Shah A, Tran A, Akhter S, Malekniazi A, 
Tandan R, Hehir M, Waheed W, Lucy S, Weiss M, Distad J, Strom S, Downing S, Kim 
B, Bertorini T, Arnold T, Henderson K, Pillai R, Liu Y, Wheeler L, Hewlett J, 
Vanderhook M, Nowak R, Dicapua D, Keung B, Kumar A, Patwa H, Robeson K, Yang I, 
Nye J, Vu H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Copenhagen Neuromuscular Center, Rigshospitalet, 
University of Copenhagen, Blegdamsvej 9, 2100, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
john.vissing@regionh.dk.
(2)Queen Elizabeth Neuroscience Centre and Wellcome Trust Clinical Research 
Facility, University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust, Mindelsohn Way, 
Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 2WB, UK.
(3)Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, 675 West Kendall Street, Cambridge, MA, 02142, USA.
(4)Formerly Alexion Pharmaceuticals, 121 Seaport Boulevard, Boston, MA, 02210, 
USA.
(5)Alexion Pharmaceuticals, 121 Seaport Boulevard, Boston, MA, 02210, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, University of North Carolina, 170 Manning Drive, 
Chapel Hill, NC, 27599-7025, USA.

BACKGROUND: The efficacy and tolerability of eculizumab were assessed in REGAIN, 
a 26-week, phase 3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in 
anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody-positive (AChR+) refractory generalized 
myasthenia gravis (gMG), and its open-label extension.
METHODS: Attainment of 'minimal symptom expression' was evaluated using 
patient-reported outcome measures of gMG symptoms [MG activities of daily living 
scale (MG-ADL), 15-item MG quality of life questionnaire (MG-QOL15)] at the 
completion of REGAIN and during the open-label extension. 'Minimal symptom 
expression' was defined as MG-ADL total score of 0-1 or MG-QOL15 total score of 
0-3.
RESULTS: At REGAIN week 26, more eculizumab-treated patients achieved 'minimal 
symptom expression' versus placebo [MG-ADL: 21.4% vs 1.7%; difference 19.8%; 95% 
confidence interval (CI) 8.5, 31.0; p = 0.0007; MG-QOL15: 16.1% vs 1.7%; 
difference 14.4%; 95% CI 4.3, 24.6; p = 0.0069]. During the open-label 
extension, the proportion of patients in the placebo/eculizumab group who 
achieved 'minimal symptom expression' increased after initiating eculizumab 
treatment and was sustained through 130 weeks of open-label eculizumab (MG-ADL: 
1.7 to 27.8%; MG-QOL15: 1.7 to 19.4%). At extension study week 130, similar 
proportions of patients in the eculizumab/eculizumab and placebo/eculizumab 
groups achieved 'minimal symptom expression' (MG-ADL: 22.9% and 27.8%, 
respectively, p = 0.7861; MG-QOL15: 14.3% and 19.4%, respectively, p = 0.7531). 
The long-term tolerability of eculizumab was consistent with previous reports.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with AChR+ refractory gMG who receive eculizumab can 
achieve sustained 'minimal symptom expression' based on patient-reported 
outcomes. 'Minimal symptom expression' may be a useful tool in measuring therapy 
effectiveness in gMG.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01997229, NCT02301624.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-020-09770-y
PMCID: PMC7320935
PMID: 32189108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: This work was funded by Alexion Pharmaceuticals. 
J.V. has received research and travel support, and/or speaker honoraria from 
Alexion Pharmaceuticals and Sanofi/Genzyme, and has served on advisory boards or 
as a consultant for Asklepios Biopharmaceuticals, Audentes Therapeutics, 
Novartis Pharma AG, PTC Therapeutics, Roche, Sanofi/Genzyme, Santhera 
Pharmaceuticals, Sarepta Therapeutics, and Stealth Biotherapeutics within the 
past 3 years. S.J. is a member of an international advisory board for Alexion 
Pharmaceuticals, has been an advisory board member for Alnylam Pharmaceuticals 
and Argenx BVBA, has received speaker fees from Terumo BCT, and has received 
research support from the Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Facility and Centre 
for Rare Diseases at the University Hospitals Birmingham, UK. K.P.F. was 
employed by and owns stock in Alexion Pharmaceuticals and is employed by Alnylam 
Pharmaceuticals. F.O’B. is employed by, and owns stock in, Alexion 
Pharmaceuticals. J.F.H. has received research support from Alexion 
Pharmaceuticals, argenx BVBA, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
(Atlanta, GA, USA), the Muscular Dystrophy Association, the National Institutes 
of Health (including the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke 
and the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases) 
and Ra Pharmaceuticals; has received honoraria from Alexion Pharmaceuticals; and 
has received non-financial support from Alexion Pharmaceuticals, argenx BVBA, Ra 
Pharmaceuticals and Toleranzia.


592. Indian J Public Health. 2020 Jan-Mar;64(1):83-85. doi:
10.4103/ijph.IJPH_116_19.

Prenatal diagnosis: A connotation on genetic counseling being indispensable.

Ramesh A(1), Parvathi VD(2).

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Student, Department of Human Genetics, Sri Ramachandra Institute 
of Higher Education and Research, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Assistant Professor, Department of Human Genetics, Sri Ramachandra Institute 
of Higher Education and Research, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.

Prenatal testing and diagnosis are gaining a strong foothold in a progressively 
developing country like India, and an estimated boom in the market of 
noninvasive prenatal testing is predicted by the year 2024. Having said this, 
every technique needs an adequate amount of supplementation to increase its 
worth and that is where genetic counseling proves to be indispensable. 
Postdiagnosis, the women classified as high-risk individuals likely to give 
birth to infants inflicted with congenital and structural anomalies are 
appropriately counseled regarding the clinical aspects of the disease, life 
expectancy associated with the same, and the consequences associated with the 
decision to go ahead and conceive the child. Genetic counseling is majorly done 
for Down syndrome as the other aneuploidies have a highly reduced life 
expectancy. Although there are a variety of techniques available for testing 
various chromosomal anomalies, information regarding the appropriate time of the 
test and emphasis on pre- and posttest counseling is usually not supplied to 
primary physicians. A considerable amount of confusion dominates the decision of 
which test should be employed for testing of which anomaly as an array of rather 
efficient techniques has been identified. Furthermore, there is no nation-wide 
consensus of the timing and nature of these screening protocols. Moreover, 
ambiguous guidelines along with an impending lacuna in terms of awareness have 
led to India being at the backseat of the era that has ushered in tons of 
technological advancement in this field.

DOI: 10.4103/ijph.IJPH_116_19
PMID: 32189690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None


593. Am Econ Rev. 2019 Dec;109(12):4178-4219. doi: 10.1257/aer.20180279.

The Mortality and Medical Costs of Air Pollution: Evidence from Changes in Wind 
Direction.

Deryugina T(1), Heutel G(2), Miller NH(1), Molitor D(1), Reif J(1).

Author information:
(1)Gies College of Business, University of Illinois, 340 Wohlers Hall, 1206 S. 
Sixth Street, Champaign, IL 61820.
(2)Department of Economics, Georgia State University, PO Box 3992, Atlanta, GA 
30302.

We estimate the causal effects of acute fine particulate matter exposure on 
mortality, health care use, and medical costs among the US elderly using 
Medicare data. We instrument for air pollution using changes in local wind 
direction and develop a new approach that uses machine learning to estimate the 
life-years lost due to pollution exposure. Finally, we characterize treatment 
effect heterogeneity using both life expectancy and generic machine learning 
inference. Both approaches find that mortality effects are concentrated in about 
25 percent of the elderly population.

DOI: 10.1257/aer.20180279
PMCID: PMC7080189
PMID: 32189719


594. J Res Natl Bur Stand A Phys Chem. 1973 May-Jun;77A(3):369-373. doi: 
10.6028/jres.077A.025.

Compressive Fatigue Coaxing in Composites.

Berg CA(1), Salama M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Basic Standards, National Bureau of Standards, Washington, D.C. 
20234.

Compressive fatigue experiments on unidirectional fiber reinforced composites, 
of both fiberglass and graphite fiber, reveal that compressive fatigue damage 
takes place by crack extension directly transverse to the fibers. It is also 
found that specimens which are first subjected to a few hundred thousand cycles 
of compressive fatigue at low stress levels, and then subjected to compressive 
fatigue at high stress levels, will survive longer at high stress levels than 
specimens which are placed under high compressive fatigue stresses from the 
outset. The increase of fatigue life at high compressive stress levels can be 
quite large; increases of fatigue life by as much as a factor of five were 
observed. The phenomenon of prolonging fatigue life at high stress levels by 
first "running in" a specimen at low stress levels is called coaxing, and is 
directly opposite to the often reported cumulative damage phenomena observed in 
tensile fatigue of composites. A possible mechanism for coaxing in compressive 
fatigue of composites is offered, and practical applications of the effect are 
suggested.

DOI: 10.6028/jres.077A.025
PMCID: PMC6715975
PMID: 32189747


595. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2020 Mar 6;20(3):1-90. eCollection 2020.

Portable Normothermic Cardiac Perfusion System in Donation After 
Cardiocirculatory Death: A Health Technology Assessment.

Ontario Health (Quality).

Collaborators: Schaink A, Gajic-Veljanoski O, Wells D, Holubowich C.

BACKGROUND: Heart transplantation is the most effective treatment for people 
experiencing end-stage heart failure whose quality of life and life expectancy 
are unacceptable. However, there is a chronic shortage of donor hearts to meet 
the demand, so it is essential to expand the donor pool and increase supply. 
Heart donation mainly occurs after brain death (neurological determination of 
death [NDD]), but it may also be feasible after cardiocirculatory death (when 
the heart has stopped beating and there is no longer blood flow or a pulse), 
provided specialized preservation techniques are used. An investigational 
device, a portable normothermic cardiac perfusion system, could make it possible 
to procure, preserve, and transport hearts donated after cardiocirculatory death 
(DCD). We conducted a health technology assessment of a portable normothermic 
cardiac perfusion system for the preservation and transportation of DCD hearts 
for adult transplantation. This included an evaluation of the effectiveness, 
safety, value for money, and budget impact of publicly funding this system, as 
well as an evaluation of patient preferences and values.
METHODS: We performed a systematic review of the clinical literature published 
since 1998 that examined the clinical safety and effectiveness of a portable 
normothermic cardiac perfusion system for DCD heart transplantation. We assessed 
the risk of bias of each included study and the quality of the body of evidence 
according to the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and 
Evaluation (GRADE) Working Group criteria. We also reviewed the economic 
evidence published during the same time period for the cost-effectiveness of a 
portable normothermic cardiac perfusion system for DCD hearts compared with cold 
storage for NDD hearts. We further estimated the 5-year net budget impact of 
publicly funding a normothermic cardiac perfusion system for DCD heart 
transplantation for adults on Ontario's waitlist. To contextualize the potential 
value of a portable normothermic cardiac perfusion system, we spoke with people 
waiting for a heart transplant, people who had received a heart transplant, and 
family members of organ donors.
RESULTS: We screened 2,386 clinical citations. One study and two case reports 
met the inclusion criteria. The survival of recipients of DCD hearts procured 
with a portable normothermic cardiac perfusion system did not differ 
significantly from the survival of recipients of hearts donated after NDD at 30 
days or 90 days, nor was there a significant difference in cumulative survival 
at 1 year post-transplant (GRADE: Very Low). The occurrence of rejection and 
graft failure also did not significantly differ between the groups (GRADE: Very 
Low). Cardiac function in the early post-operative period was better in DCD 
hearts than NDD hearts (GRADE: Very Low). There were no differences in outcomes 
between DCD procurement techniques.The economic literature search yielded 62 
citations. One report met the inclusion criteria but was not directly applicable 
to the Ontario context. Given the lack of clinical and economic evidence on 
long-term outcomes, we did not conduct a primary economic evaluation. In the 
budget impact analysis, based on the number of DCD donors under 40 years of age 
in the last 5 years, we estimated that the increased availability of donor 
hearts made possible by the technology would result in an additional seven 
transplants in year 1, increasing to 12 in year 5. The annual net budget impact 
of publicly funding a normothermic cardiac perfusion system for the 
transplantation of DCD hearts in Ontario over the next 5 years is about $2.0 
million in the first year and about $0.9 million in each of years 2 through 5, 
yielding a total net budget impact of about $5.6 million. This number increases 
to about $10.3 million if the transplant volume increases to 18 hearts in year 1 
(meaning a subsequent increase of up to 21 hearts in year 5). If transplantation 
were limited to people who do not qualify for a ventricular assistive device or 
who qualify but do not wish to receive one, the total 5-year net budget impact 
would be about $7.9 million.People waiting for a heart transplant or who had 
received a heart transplant and family members of organ donors expressed no 
substantial concerns about the potential use of a portable normothermic cardiac 
perfusion system. They hope that it may increase the number of donor hearts 
available for transplant. For family members of organ donors, a perfusion system 
may provide comfort and value if it can increase the successful procurement of 
donor hearts.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on very low quality of evidence, the outcomes for recipients 
of DCD hearts preserved using a portable normothermic cardiac perfusion system 
appear to be similar to outcomes for recipients of NDD hearts. Owing to a lack 
of evidence relevant to the Ontario context, we were unable to determine whether 
a portable normothermic perfusion system may be cost-effective. We estimate that 
publicly funding a portable normothermic cardiac perfusion system for DCD heart 
transplantation over the next 5 years will cost about $5.6 million. The people 
we spoke with believe that the system may increase the number of hearts 
available for transplant and therefore increase the number of heart transplants 
that can be done.

Copyright © Queen's Printer for Ontario, 2020.

PMCID: PMC7077939
PMID: 32190164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Open Forum Infect Dis. 2020 Feb 13;7(3):ofaa052. doi: 10.1093/ofid/ofaa052. 
eCollection 2020 Mar.

Point-of-Care Testing to Guide Treatment and Estimate Risk Factors for Sexually 
Transmitted Infections in Adolescents and Young People With Human 
Immunodeficiency Virus in Eswatini.

Jasumback CL(1)(2), Perry SH(2)(3), Ness TE(3)(4), Matsenjwa M(2), Masangane 
ZT(5), Mavimbela M(5), Mthethwa N(6), Dlamini L(2), Mphaya J(7), Kirchner 
HL(3)(8), Mandalakas A(3), Kay AW(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Extension, Community Health, United States Peace Corps, Mbabane, Eswatini.
(2)Baylor College of Medicine Children's Foundation, Mbabane, Eswatini.
(3)Pediatrics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, USA.
(4)Texas Children's Hospital, Houston, Texas, USA.
(5)Sexual and Reproductive Health Unit, Ministry of Health, Mbabane, Eswatini.
(6)Swaziland National AIDS Program Paediatric ART Advisor, Ministry of Health, 
Mbabane, Eswatini.
(7)Young Child Survival and Development Program, UNICEF, Mbabane, Eswatini.
(8)Department of Population Health Sciences, Geisinger, Danville, Pennsylvania, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates 127 million new cases 
of Chlamydia trachomatis (CT), 87 million new cases of Neisseria gonorrhea (NG), 
and 156 million new cases of Trichomonas vaginalis (TV) each year, which 
corresponds to 355 (219-606), 303 (216-468), and 243 (97.6-425) thousand 
disability-adjusted life-years. In low-resource settings, however, sexually 
transmitted infections (STIs) are treated syndromically and many individuals 
with asymptomatic infection may be missed, especially adolescents and young 
adults with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
METHODS: We enrolled patients aged 15-24 with HIV (N = 300) attending a 
family-centered HIV clinic in Mbabane, Eswatini. Participants completed a sexual 
history questionnaire and provided urine as well as oropharyngeal and/or vaginal 
swabs, if sexually active, for testing with Xpert CT/NG and TV tests. Analysis 
included bivariate and multivariate odds ratios and test sensitivity and 
specificity.
RESULTS: Sexually transmitted infection rates were highest (25.0%; 95% 
confidence interval [CI], 15.2-37.3) in females ages 20-24 who were ever 
sexually active. In patients with confirmed STIs, NG (15 of 32, 47%) was more 
common than CT (9 of 32, 28%) and TV (8 of 32, 25%). Syndromic screening alone 
had a sensitivity of 32.0% (95% CI, 14.9-53.3) and specificity of 86.0% (95% CI, 
79.0-91.4) but varied by gender. The presence of an STI was associated with 
reporting new sexual partner(s) (OR = 2.6; 95% CI, 1.1-6.4), sometimes to never 
using condoms (OR = 4.2; 95% CI, 1.7-10.2), most recent sexual partner >25 years 
old (OR = 3.2; 95% CI, 1.3-7.9), and HIV diagnosis at age ≥15 years (OR = 3.4; 
95% CI, 1.4-8.2).
CONCLUSIONS: Syndromic screening alone performed poorly. Routine diagnostic 
testing significantly increases STI detection and should be considered in 
high-risk populations, such as adolescents and young adults with HIV.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Infectious Diseases Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/ofid/ofaa052
PMCID: PMC7071112
PMID: 32190707


597. Transl Med Aging. 2019;3:64-69. doi: 10.1016/j.tma.2019.07.001. Epub 2019
Jul 3.

DDS promotes longevity through a microbiome-mediated starvation signal.

Choi H(1)(2), Cho SC(3), Ha YW(4), Ocampo B(5), Park S(5), Chen S(5), Bennett 
CF(5), Han J(5), Rossner R(5), Kang JS(6)(7), Lee YL(3), Park SC(3)(8), 
Kaeberlein M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Oregon Health and Science University, 
Portland, OR 97239 USA.
(2)Center for Developmental Health, Knight Cardiovascular Institute, Oregon 
Health and Science University, Portland, OR 97239 USA.
(3)Well Aging Research Center, Daegu Geongbuk Institute Science and Technology 
(DGIST), Daegu, 42988, South Korea.
(4)Well Aging Research Center, Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology (SAIT), 
Suwon, South Korea.
(5)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(6)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Sungkyunkwan University School of 
Medicine, Suwon 16419, South Korea.
(7)Samsung Biomedical Institute, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul 06351, South 
Korea.
(8)The Future Life and Society Research Center, Chonnam National University, 
Gwangju, South Korea.

The antibiotic diaminodiphenyl sulfone (DDS) is used in combination with other 
antibiotics as a first line treatment for leprosy. DDS has been previously 
reported to extend lifespan in Caenorhabditis elegans through inhibition of 
pyruvate kinase and decreased mitochondrial function. Here we report an 
alternative mechanism of action by which DDS promotes longevity in C. elegans by 
reducing folate production by the microbiome. This results in altered methionine 
cycle metabolite levels mimicking the effects of metformin and lifespan 
extension that is dependent on the starvation- and hypoxia-induced flavin 
containing monoxygenase, FMO-2.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tma.2019.07.001
PMCID: PMC7080190
PMID: 32190786


598. Psychol Aging. 2020 May;35(3):385-396. doi: 10.1037/pag0000455. Epub 2020
Mar  19.

Personal ideals of aging and longevity: The role of subjective discordances.

Rupprecht FS(1), Lang FR(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychogerontology.

Following theoretical models on wishful thinking, we investigated (a) whether 
personal aging ideals are discordant from self-perceptions of aging, (b) how 
such aging discordances evolve across adulthood, (c) whether current aging 
discordances are related to anticipated future aging discordances, and (d) 
whether aging discordances are related to a lower psychological well-being. We 
captured subjective age discordance (SAD) as the discrepancy between current 
perceived age and ideal age, and we captured subjective life-expectancy 
discordance (SLED) as the discrepancy between perceived life expectancy and 
ideal life expectancy. For the analyses, we used cross-sectional data from 1,015 
individuals (M = 40.0 years, SD = 17.9 years; 52.1% women) and 2-year 
longitudinal data from 258 individuals (M = 55.3 years, SD = 17.3 years; 70.5% 
women). Both aging discordances were clearly present across the adult life span; 
that is, ideal ages were lower than perceived ages, and ideal life expectancies 
were higher than perceived life expectancies. A stronger SLED was associated 
with a stronger SAD, both cross-sectionally and longitudinally. Both 
discordances were also associated with lower psychological well-being in the 
cross-sectional analyses. Over time, lower life satisfaction predicted increases 
in SAD, and SLED predicted increases in negative affect. The results indicate 
that SAD and SLED are both highly prevalent and potentially functional because 
they seem to be related to psychological well-being. The discussion focuses on 
SAD and SLED as constructs for future research, their antecedents, and potential 
consequences. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2020 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/pag0000455
PMID: 32191058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. JAMA Netw Open. 2020 Mar 2;3(3):e201255. doi:
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2020.1255.

Association of Sociodemographic and Health-Related Factors With Receipt of 
Nondefinitive Therapy Among Younger Men With High-Risk Prostate Cancer.

Bagley AF(1), Anscher MS(1), Choi S(1), Frank SJ(1), Hoffman KE(1), Kuban DA(1), 
McGuire SE(1), Nguyen QN(1), Chapin B(2), Aparicio A(3), Pezzi TA(1), Smith 
GL(1)(4), Smith BD(1)(4), Hess K(5), Tang C(1).

