and speech function without further procedures/prostheses.

DOI: 10.1097/SCS.0000000000006274
PMID: 32097384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. PLoS One. 2020 Feb 25;15(2):e0228628. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0228628. 
eCollection 2020.

Longitudinal change of cervical artificial disc motion following replacement.

Moon JH(1), Chung CK(2)(3)(4)(5), Kim CH(2)(3)(4), Lee CH(2), Park SB(6), Heo 
W(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Dongguk University Ilsan Hospital, Ilsan, South 
Korea.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Seoul National University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Neuroscience Research Institute, Seoul National University Medical Research 
Center, Seoul, South Korea.
(4)Clinical Research Institute, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, South 
Korea.
(5)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Seoul National University College 
of Natural Sciences, Seoul, South Korea.
(6)Department of Neurosurgery, Seoul National University Boramae Medical Center, 
Seoul, South Korea.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, Gyeongsang Natinoal University Changwon Hospital, 
Changwon, South Korea.

We reviewed charts and radiologic studies of 30 patients operated upon by ADR 
with Mobi-C® in single level since 2006. All patients had healthy cervical facet 
joints (less than or equal to grade 1 according to grading systems for cervical 
facet joint degeneration) preoperatively. We assessed clinical outcomes with NDI 
and VAS on neck and arm over follow-up and also measured ROM at implanted 
segment on dynamic radiographs during follow-up. The mean follow-up period was 
42.4 ± 15.9 months. We then assessed the linearity of changes in ROM at 
implanted segment through linear mixed model. All patients showed significantly 
improved clinical outcomes. ROMs at implanted segment were maintained at 
slightly increased levels until 24 months postoperatively (P = 0.529). However, 
after 24 months, ROMs at implanted segment decreased significantly until last 
follow-up (P = 0.001). In addition, the decreasing pattern after 24 months 
showed a regular regression (P = 0.001). This decline was correlated with 
decline of extension angle at implanted segment. Based on this regular 
regression, we estimated that ROMs at implanted segments would be less than 2 
degrees at 10.24 years postoperatively. Even though implanted segment maintains 
its motion for some length of time, we could assume that an artificial disc 
would have limited life expectancy correlated with the decline of extension 
angle.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0228628
PMCID: PMC7041810
PMID: 32097419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


309. Open Biol. 2020 Feb;10(2):190273. doi: 10.1098/rsob.190273. Epub 2020 Feb
26.

Wnt5b integrates Fak1a to mediate gastrulation cell movements via Rac1 and 
Cdc42.

Hung IC(1), Chen TM(1)(2)(3), Lin JP(2), Tai YL(2), Shen TL(2)(4), Lee 
SJ(1)(5)(4)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, National Taiwan University, No. 1, Roosevelt 
Road, Section 4, Taipei 10617, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Plant Pathology and Microbiology, National Taiwan University, 
No. 1, Roosevelt Road, Section 4, Taipei 10617, Taiwan.
(3)Department and Graduate Institute of Aquaculture, National Kaohsiung Marine 
University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(4)Center for Biotechnology, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(5)Research Center for Developmental Biology and Regenerative Medicine, National 
Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(6)Center for Systems Biology, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.

Erratum in
    Open Biol. 2020 Mar;10(3):200058.

Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) mediates vital cellular pathways during development. 
Despite its necessity, how FAK regulates and integrates with other signals 
during early embryogenesis remains poorly understood. We found that the loss of 
Fak1a impaired epiboly, convergent extension and hypoblast cell migration in 
zebrafish embryos. We also observed a clear disturbance in cortical actin at the 
blastoderm margin and distribution of yolk syncytial nuclei. In addition, we 
investigated a possible link between Fak1a and a well-known gastrulation 
regulator, Wnt5b, and revealed that the overexpression of fak1a or wnt5b could 
cross-rescue convergence defects induced by a wnt5b or fak1a antisense 
morpholino (MO), respectively. Wnt5b and Fak1a were shown to converge in 
regulating Rac1 and Cdc42, which could synergistically rescue wnt5b and fak1a 
morphant phenotypes. Furthermore, we generated several alleles of fak1a mutants 
using CRISPR/Cas9, but those mutants only revealed mild gastrulation defects. 
However, injection of a subthreshold level of the wnt5b MO induced severe 
gastrulation defects in fak1a mutants, which suggested that the upregulated 
expression of wnt5b might complement the loss of Fak1a. Collectively, we 
demonstrated that a functional interaction between Wnt and FAK signalling 
mediates gastrulation cell movements via the possible regulation of Rac1 and 
Cdc42 and subsequent actin dynamics.

DOI: 10.1098/rsob.190273
PMCID: PMC7058935
PMID: 32097584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: We declare we have no competing interests.


310. Int J Hyg Environ Health. 2020 May;226:113484. doi:
10.1016/j.ijheh.2020.113484.  Epub 2020 Feb 22.

Assessment of microbial risks by characterization of Escherichia coli presence 
to analyze the public health risks from poor water quality in Nepal.

Uprety S(1), Dangol B(2), Nakarmi P(2), Dhakal I(2), Sherchan SP(3), Shisler 
JL(4), Jutla A(5), Amarasiri M(6), Sano D(7), Nguyen TH(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Illinois at 
Urbana Champaign, Urbana, IL, USA; Department of Frontier Science for Advanced 
Environment Tohoku University, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan. Electronic 
address: uprety2@illinois.edu.
(2)Environment and Public Health Organization (ENPHO), Kathmandu, Nepal.
(3)Department of Global Environmental Health Sciences, Tulane University School 
of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, New Orleans, LA, USA.
(4)Department of Microbiology, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, 
Urbana, IL, USA.
(5)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, West Virginia University, 
Morgantown, WV, USA.
(6)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Tohoku University, Sendai, 
Japan.
(7)Department of Frontier Science for Advanced Environment Tohoku University, 
Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan; Department of Civil and Environmental 
Engineering, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan.
(8)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Illinois at 
Urbana Champaign, Urbana, IL, USA.

The combination of natural disasters and inadequate infrastructure introduce 
unique challenges in providing safe drinking water in low-income countries. For 
example, Nepal faces several challenges in managing sporadic diarrheal outbreaks 
across the country, given its complex geographic terrain, and its susceptibility 
to extreme natural events like earthquakes, floods, and landslides. To assess 
the risks of diarrheal diseases caused by fecal contamination in several water 
sources in different geographical regions of Nepal, we conducted a two months 
cross-sectional study throughout 37 out of 75 districts in Nepal, including the 
ones affected by Nepal 2015 earthquake. Quantitative Microbial Risk Assessment 
(QMRA) was applied to estimate the human health risk based on Escherichia coli 
(E. coli) count for 2,822 water samples collected at source and households. 
Disease burden calculations suggested that Hilly and Terai (low-land) regions 
are at the highest risk with 0.27 and 0.16 DALYs per person per year (DALYpppy), 
respectively, whereas mountain region disease burden was 0.02 DALYpppy. The risk 
comparison among exposure pathways indicated that the water used in households, 
including drinking water and water for washing, posed higher risks than from 
source water, reservoir water or tap water, suggesting deteriorated sanitation 
conditions in households. These findings suggest that the combination of QMRA 
and spatial analysis can help to prioritize intervention activities after a 
major natural disaster.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijheh.2020.113484
PMID: 32097888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Cells. 2020 Feb 22;9(2):501. doi: 10.3390/cells9020501.

Arteriogenesis of the Spinal Cord-The Network Challenge.

Simon F(1), Wagenhäuser MU(1), Busch A(2), Schelzig H(1), Gombert A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Heinrich-Heine-University of 
Düsseldorf, 40225 Düsseldorf, Germany.
(2)Department of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Klinikum rechts der Isar, 
Technical University of Munich, 81675 Munich, Germany.
(3)Department of Vascular Surgery, University Hospital RWTH Aachen, 52074 
Aachen, Germany.

Spinal cord ischemia (SCI) is a clinical complication following aortic repair 
that significantly impairs the quality and expectancy of life. Despite some 
strategies, like cerebrospinal fluid drainage, the occurrence of neurological 
symptoms, such as paraplegia and paraparesis, remains unpredictable. Beside the 
major blood supply through conduit arteries, a huge collateral network protects 
the central nervous system from ischemia-the paraspinous and the intraspinal 
compartment. The intraspinal arcades maintain perfusion pressure following a 
sudden inflow interruption, whereas the paraspinal system first needs to undergo 
arteriogenesis to ensure sufficient blood supply after an acute ischemic insult. 
The so-called steal phenomenon can even worsen the postoperative situation by 
causing the hypoperfusion of the spine when, shortly after thoracoabdominal 
aortic aneurysm (TAAA) surgery, muscles connected with the network divert blood 
and cause additional stress. Vessels are a conglomeration of different cell 
types involved in adapting to stress, like endothelial cells, smooth muscle 
cells, and pericytes. This adaption to stress is subdivided in three 
phases-initiation, growth, and the maturation phase. In fields of endovascular 
aortic aneurysm repair, pre-operative selective segmental artery occlusion may 
enable the development of a sufficient collateral network by stimulating 
collateral vessel growth, which, again, may prevent spinal cord ischemia. Among 
others, the major signaling pathways include the phosphoinositide 3 kinase 
(PI3K) pathway/the antiapoptotic kinase (AKT) pathway/the endothelial nitric 
oxide synthase (eNOS) pathway, the Erk1, the delta-like ligand (DII), the jagged 
(Jag)/NOTCH pathway, and the midkine regulatory cytokine signaling pathways.

DOI: 10.3390/cells9020501
PMCID: PMC7072838
PMID: 32098337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


312. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2020 Feb 22;17(4):1423. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph17041423.

Hybrid Methodology to Improve Health Status Utility Values Derivation Using 
EQ-5D-5L and Advanced Multi-Criteria Techniques.

Vásquez J(1), Botero S(2).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Economía, Facultad de Ciencias Humanas y Económicas, 
Universidad Nacional de Colombia Sede Medellín, Medellín 050034, Colombia.
(2)Departamento de Ingeniería de la Organización, Facultad de Minas, Universidad 
Nacional de Colombia Sede Medellín, Medellín 050034, Colombia.

This paper presented a new approach to the calculation of quality-adjusted life 
years (QALY) based on multi-criteria decision-making (MCDM) methods and using 
the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire. The health status utility values were calculated 
through a hybrid methodology. We combined the analytic hierarchy process (AHP), 
the AHP with a D-number extended fuzzy preference relation (D-AHP), the fuzzy 
analytic hierarchy process (F-AHP), and the technique for order preference by 
similarity to the ideal solution (TOPSIS) to obtain individual and aggregated 
utility values. The preference data were elicited using a sample of individuals 
from a Colombian university. In all tested methods, the ordinal preferences were 
consistent, and the weights were compared using the Euclidean distance criterion 
(EDC). We identified F-AHP-TOPSIS as the optimal method; its benefits were 
associated with modeling the response options of the EQ-5D in linguistic terms, 
it gave the best approximation to the initial preferences according to EDC, and 
it could be used as an alternative to the known prioritization method. This 
hybrid methodology was particularly useful in certain medical decisions 
concerned with understanding how a specific person values his or her current 
health or possible health outcomes from different interventions in small 
population samples and studies carried out in low- and middle-low-income 
countries.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph17041423
PMCID: PMC7068428
PMID: 32098423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors certify that they have no 
affiliations with or involvement in any organization or entity with any 
financial or non-financial interest in the subject matter or materials discussed 
in this manuscript.


313. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2021 Mar 10;34(8):631-649. doi:
10.1089/ars.2020.8056.  Epub 2020 Apr 20.

Diabetes-Alzheimer's Disease Link: Targeting Mitochondrial Dysfunction and Redox 
Imbalance.

Carvalho C(1)(2)(3), Cardoso S(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)CNC-Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, 
Portugal.
(2)CIBB-Center for Innovative Biomedicine and Biotechnology, University of 
Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(3)IIIUC-Interdisciplinarie Institute of Investigation, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal.

Significance: It is of common sense that the world population is aging and life 
expectancy is increasing. However, as the population ages, there is also an 
exponential risk to live into the ages where the brain-related frailties and 
neurodegenerative diseases develop. Hand in hand with those events, the world is 
witnessing a major upsurge in diabetes diagnostics. Remarkably, all of this 
seems to be narrowly related, and clinical and research communities highlight 
for the upcoming threat that it will represent for the present and future 
generations. Recent Advances: It is of utmost importance to clarify the 
influence of diabetes-related metabolic features on brain health and the 
mechanisms underlying the increased likelihood of developing neurodegenerative 
diseases, in particular Alzheimer's disease. Thereupon, a wealth of evidence 
suggests that mitochondria and associated oxidative stress are at the root of 
the link between diabetes and co-occurring disorders in the brain. Critical 
Issues: The scientific community has been challenged with constant failures of 
clinical trials raising major issues in the advance of the therapeutic field to 
fight chronic diseases epidemics. Thus, a change of paradigms is urgently 
needed. Future Directions: It has become urgent to identify new and solid 
candidates able to clinically reproduce the positive outcomes obtained in 
preclinical studies. On this basis, strategies settled to counteract 
diabetes-induced neurodegeneration encompassing mitochondrial dysfunction, redox 
status imbalance, and/or insulin dysregulation seem worth to follow. Hopefully, 
ongoing innovative research based on reliable experimental tools will soon bring 
the desired answers allowing pharmaceutical industry to apply such knowledge to 
human medicine.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2020.8056
PMID: 32098477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. J Med Econ. 2020 Aug;23(8):803-811. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2020.1735398. Epub
 2020 Apr 2.

A discrete choice experiment to assess patients' preferences for HIV treatment 
in the rural population in Colombia.

Goossens AJM(1), Cheung KL(2), Sijstermans E(1), Conde R(3), Gonzalez JGR(4), 
Hiligsmann M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research, CAPHRI Care and Public Health 
Research Institute, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Clinical Sciences, College of Health and Life Sciences, Brunel 
University London, London, United Kingdom.
(3)Centro de Investigación Clínica ACISC, Asistencia Científica de Alta 
Complejida, Bogota, Colombia.
(4)Rosario Graduate School of Business, School of Business, Administración en 
Salud, Universidad del Rosario, Bogotá, Colombia.

Aim: To elicit patients' preferences for HIV treatment of the rural population 
in Colombia.Methods: A discrete choice experiment (DCE), conducted in a HIV 
clinic in Bogotá, was used to examine the trade-off between five HIV treatment 
attributes: effect on life expectancy, effect on physical activity, risk of 
moderate side-effects, accessibility to clinic, and economic costs to access 
controls. Attributes selection was based on literature review, expert 
consultation and a focus group with six patients. An efficient experimental 
design was used to define two versions of the questionnaire with each of 12 
choice sets and a dominance task was added to check reliability. A mixed logit 
model was then used to analyse the data and sub-group analyses were conducted on 
the basis of age, gender, education, and sexual preference.Results: A total of 
129 HIV patients were included for analysis. For all treatment attributes, 
significant differences between at least two levels were observed, meaning that 
all attributes were significant predictors of choice. Patients valued the effect 
on physical activity (conditional relative importance of 27.5%) and the effect 
on life expectancy (26.0%) the most. Sub-group analyses regard age and education 
showed significant differences: younger patients and high educated patients 
valued the effect on physical activity the most important, whereas older 
patients mostly valued the effect on life expectancy and low educated patients 
mostly valued the accessibility to clinic.Limitations: One potential limitation 
is selection bias, as only patients from one HIV clinic were reached. 
Additionally, questionnaires were partly administered in the waiting rooms, 
which potentially led to noise in the data.Conclusions: This study suggests that 
all HIV treatment characteristics included in this DCE were important and that 
HIV patients from rural Colombia valued short-term efficacy (i.e. effect on 
physical activity) and long-term efficacy (i.e. effect on life expectancy) the 
most.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2020.1735398
PMID: 32098539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. J Med Econ. 2020 Aug;23(8):812-818. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2020.1735399. Epub
 2020 Apr 6.

A discrete choice experiment to assess patients' preferences for HIV treatment 
in the urban population in Colombia.

Sijstermans E(1), Cheung KL(2), Goossens AJM(1), Conde R(3), Gonzalez JGR(4), 
Hiligsmann M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research, CAPHRI Care and Public Health 
Research Institute, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Clinical Sciences, College of Health and Life Sciences, Brunel 
University London, London, UK.
(3)Centro de Investigación Clínica ACISC, Asistencia Científica de Alta 
Complejida, Bogota, Colombia.
(4)Rosario Graduate School of Business, School of Business, Administración en 
Salud, Universidad del Rosario, Bogotá, Colombia.

Aim: This study aimed to assess patients' preferences for HIV treatment in an 
urban Colombian population.Methods: A Discrete Choice Experiment (DCE) was 
conducted. Urban Colombian HIV patients were asked to repetitively choose 
between two hypothetical treatments that differ in regard to five attributes 
'effect on life expectancy', 'effect on physical activity', 'risk of moderate 
side effects, 'accessibility to clinic' and 'economic cost to access controls'. 
Twelve choice sets were made using an efficient design. A Mixed Logit Panel 
Model was used for the analysis and subgroup analyses were performed according 
to age, gender, education level and sexual preference.Results: A total of 224 
HIV patients were included. All attributes were significant, indicating that 
there were differences between at least two levels of each attribute. Patients 
preferred to be able to perform all physical activity without difficulty, to 
have large positive effects on life expectancy, to travel less than 2 h, to have 
lower risk of side-effects and to have subsidized travel costs. The attributes 
'effect on physical activity' and 'effects on life expectancy' were deemed the 
most important. Sub-analyses showed that higher educated patients placed more 
importance on the large positive effects of HIV treatment, and a more negative 
preference for subsidized travel cost (5% level).Limitations: A potential 
limitation is selection bias as it is difficult to make a systematic urban/rural 
division of respondents. Additional, questionnaires were partly administered in 
the waiting rooms, which potentially led to some noise in the data.Conclusions: 
Findings suggests that short-term efficacy (i.e. effect on physical activity) 
and long-term efficacy (i.e. effect on life expectancy) are the most important 
treatment characteristics for HIV urban patients in Colombia. Preference data 
could provide relevant information for clinical and policy decision-making to 
optimize HIV care.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2020.1735399
PMID: 32098614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Injury. 2020 Apr;51 Suppl 1:S1-S3. doi: 10.1016/j.injury.2020.02.039. Epub
2020  Feb 11.

Editorial. The Challenges of Orthopaedic Trauma in Spain.

Guerado E(1), Cordero-Ampuero J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Traumatology, Hospital Universitario 
Costa del Sol. University of Malaga. Marbella, Malaga. Spain. Electronic 
address: eguerado@hcs.es.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University Hospital La Princesa. 
Universidad Autonoma de Madrid. Madrid, Spain.

Spain is considered the healthiest nation in the world, due to lifepromoting 
aspects such as good diet, care facilities and a favourable family environment. 
However, although increased life expectancy is an indicator of development, it 
may have a negative impact on the other two variables of health service 
efficiency, namely health expenditure per capita and its relative weight in 
Gross Domestic Product.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.injury.2020.02.039
PMID: 32098676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.


317. Int J Chron Obstruct Pulmon Dis. 2020 Feb 3;15:235-245. doi: 
10.2147/COPD.S231296. eCollection 2020.

Impact of Comorbidities and Commonly Used Drugs on Mortality in COPD - 
Real-World Data from a Primary Care Setting.

Ellingsen J(1), Johansson G(2), Larsson K(3), Lisspers K(2), Malinovschi A(4), 
Ställberg B(2), Thuresson M(5), Janson C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, Respiratory, Allergy and Sleep Research, 
Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(2)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, Family Medicine and 
Preventive Medicine, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(3)Integrative Toxicology, National Institute of Environmental Medicine, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Department of Medical Sciences, Clinical Physiology, Uppsala University, 
Uppsala, Sweden.
(5)Statisticon AB, Uppsala, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy is significantly shorter for patients with chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) than the general population. Concurrent 
diseases are known to infer an increased mortality risk in those with COPD, but 
the effects of pharmacological treatments on survival are less established. This 
study aimed to examine any associations between commonly used drugs, 
comorbidities and mortality in Swedish real-world primary care COPD patients.
METHODS: Patients with physician-diagnosed COPD from a large primary care 
population were observed retrospectively, utilizing primary care records and 
mandatory Swedish national registers. The time to all-cause death was assessed 
in a stepwise multiple Cox proportional hazards regression model including 
demography, socioeconomic factors, exacerbations, comorbidities and medication.
RESULTS: During the observation period (1999-2009) 5776 (32.5%) of 17,745 
included COPD patients died. Heart failure (hazard ratio [HR]: 1.88, 95% 
confidence interval [CI]: 1.74-2.04), stroke (HR: 1.52, 95% CI: 1.40-1.64) and 
myocardial infarction (HR: 1.40, 95% CI: 1.24-1.58) were associated with an 
increased risk of death. Use of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS; HR: 0.79, 95% CI: 
0.66-0.94), beta-blockers (HR: 0.86, 95% CI: 0.76-0.97) and acetylsalicylic acid 
(ASA; HR: 0.87, 95% CI: 0.77-0.98) was dose-dependently associated with a 
decreased risk of death, whereas use of long-acting muscarinic antagonists 
(LAMA; HR: 1.33, 95% CI: 1.14-1.55) and N-acetylcysteine (NAC; HR: 1.26, 95% CI: 
1.08-1.48) were dose-dependently associated with an increased risk of death in 
COPD patients.
CONCLUSION: This large, retrospective, observational study of Swedish real-world 
primary care COPD patients indicates that coexisting heart failure, stroke and 
myocardial infarction were the strongest predictors of death, underscoring the 
importance of timely recognition and treatment of comorbidities. A decreased 
risk of death associated with the use of ICS, beta-blockers and ASA, and an 
increased risk associated with the use of LAMA and NAC, was also found.

© 2020 Ellingsen et al.

DOI: 10.2147/COPD.S231296
PMCID: PMC7006848
PMID: 32099348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: JE has received honoraria for lectures from 
AstraZeneca, Novartis and Teva and has served on advisory boards arranged by 
Novartis. GJ has served on advisory boards arranged by AstraZeneca, Novartis and 
Teva. KjL has, during the last five years, on one or more occasion served as an 
advisory board member and/or served as speaker and/or participated in education 
activities arranged by AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Chiesi, 
GlaxoSmithKline, Orion, Novartis, Teva and Takeda. KaL has received honoraria 
for educational activities from Novartis, AstraZeneca, Chiesi, Teva and 
Boehringer Ingelheim and served on advisory boards arranged by Novartis and 
GlaxoSmithKline. AM has no conflicts of interest to declare with regard to the 
topic of the present study. BS has received honoraria for educational activities 
and lectures from AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis, 
Meda and Teva, and has served on advisory boards arranged by AstraZeneca, 
Novartis, GlaxoSmithKline, Boehringer Ingelheim, Meda and Teva. MT has received 
personal fees from AstraZeneca, during the conduct of the study. CJ has received 
honoraria for educational activities from AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Chiesi, Novartis and Teva, and has served on advisory boards arranged by 
AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Chiesi, GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis and Teva. 
The authors report no other conflicts of interest in this work.


318. Zookeys. 2020 Feb 10;910:143-161. doi: 10.3897/zookeys.910.47866.
eCollection  2020.

Status of the burbot (Lota lota L.) in the Lower Danube (Bulgaria) - a species 
threatened by climate change.

Pandakov PG(1), Teofilova TM(2), Kodzhabashev ND(1).

Author information:
(1)Forestry University, Faculty of Forestry, Department of Hunting and Game 
Management, 10 Kliment Ohridski Blvd., 1756 Sofia, Bulgaria Forestry University 
Sofia Bulgaria.
(2)Institute of Biodiversity and Ecosystem Research (IBER), Bulgarian Academy of 
Sciences, 1 Tsar Osvoboditel Blvd., 1000 Sofia, Bulgaria Institute of 
Biodiversity and Ecosystem Research, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences Sofia 
Bulgaria.

The study provides data on the catch composition, length-weight relationship, 
age structure, gender structure, growth, maturation, fecundity, distribution and 
conservation status of the burbot Lota lota (Linnaeus, 1758) in Bulgaria. During 
six consecutive winters (2008-2014) a total of 395 burbot specimens were caught. 
The total length and the weight of the specimens ranged from 16 to 51 cm and 
29.8 to 1057 g, respectively. Seven age classes were represented (3- to 
9-years-old), with 3-, 4-, and 5-years-old most abundant. The maximal life 
expectancy was estimated as 12 years. Male-female ratio was 1:1. Maturity 
happens at the age of four at the earliest, valid for both sexes. One-quarter of 
the fish, older than 5 years were determined as non-reproducing in the 
particular year. The absolute fecundity varied between 47 462 and 810 236 eggs 
for females ranging from 5 to 7 years old and from 25.7 to 41.5 cm in length. A 
dramatic decrease of burbot population was observed in the last two decades. 
Warming water temperatures of the Danube, together with fragmentation in its 
tributaries are considered as the major threats affecting the species. 
Therefore, the burbot in Bulgaria is classified as Endangered.

Pencho G. Pandakov, Teodora M. Teofilova, Nikolay D. Kodzhabashev.

DOI: 10.3897/zookeys.910.47866
PMCID: PMC7026198
PMID: 32099519


319. Iran J Parasitol. 2019 Oct-Dec;14(4):572-583.

Determination of the Infectivity of Cryopreserved Theileria annulata Sporozoites 
in Tick Derived Stabilates Iran Ak-93 Strain, by In Vivo and In Vitro Methods.

Modirrousta H(1), Habibi G(2), Shayan P(3), Afshari A(2), Mirjalili A(4), 
Abdigoudarzi M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Wild Life Research, Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute, 
Agriculture Research, Education and Extension Organization, Karaj, Iran.
(2)Department of Parasite Vaccine Research and Production, Razi Vaccine and 
Serum Research Institute, Agriculture Research, Education and Extension 
Organization, Karaj, Iran.
(3)Department of Parasitology, School of Veterinary, Tehran University, Tehran, 
Iran.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute, 
Agriculture Research, Education and Extension Organization, Karaj, Iran.
(5)Department of Parasitology, Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute, 
Agriculture Research, Education and Extension Organization, Karaj, Iran.

BACKGROUND: The protozoan parasite Theileria annulata is the causative agent of 
tropical theileriosis in cattle. Vaccination is recommended by administration of 
attenuated schizont-infected cell lines. The expected protective immunity 
post-vaccination can be demonstrated by challenge test through inoculation of 
highly virulent infective sporozoites. The aim of this study was to produce 
Hyalomma anatolicum anatolicum tick infected with T. annulata (local strain) for 
preparation of tick-derived sporozoite stabilates for molecular characterization 
and infectivity test assay.
METHODS: A local T. annulata strain was used for experimental infection of 
calves. A field isolate of H. a. anatolicum was isolated, laboratory-reared and 
infected by blood-feeding on Theileria infected above-mentioned calves. The 
infectivity of calf, tick and prepared stabilate were confirmed by clinical 
signs of theileriosis, microscopic inspection, RT-PCR and in vitro cell culture.
RESULTS: The tick stabilate was prepared and cryopreserved in liquid nitrogen. 
The infectivity of the tick stabilate was verified by in vivo bioassay, in vitro 
cell culture infection, microscopic inspection in salivary glands and RT-PCR 
assay. The in vitro produced cell line in this study was characterized by T. 
annulata Cytochrome b gene analyzing.
CONCLUSION: The infectivity of a new prepared tick-derived sporozoite stabilate 
was confirmed in susceptible calves; by microscopically, post mortem, tick 
microscopic and molecular assays. Moreover, naïve PBMCs were transformed and 
proliferated by T. annulata infected tick stabilate to immortal T. annulata 
schizont infected cell line. The potent infective sporozoite tick derived 
stabilate could be used for vaccine efficacy and challenge test as well as in 
vaccine development.

Copyright© Iranian Society of Parasitology & Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences.

PMCID: PMC7028227
PMID: 32099560

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interests The authors declare that 
there is no conflict of interests.


320. Am J Ophthalmol Case Rep. 2020 Jan 30;18:100585. doi: 
10.1016/j.ajoc.2020.100585. eCollection 2020 Jun.

Diagnostic challenges in a case of an isolated third nerve palsy.

Sivakumar P(1), Palanive S(1), Gochait D(2), Hess O(3).

Author information:
(1)Ophthalmology, Aravind Eye Care, India.
(2)Pathology, JIPMER, India.
(3)Ophthalmology, Standard University, USA.

PURPOSE: Neuro-ophthalmic manifestations may be the first and sole presenting 
feature of a nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Peri-neural spread is an emerging 
phenomenon that explains the distant spread of tumour cells well beyond the 
local extent of invasion. This under recognized route of tumour spread often 
results in delayed diagnosis and reduced life expectancy. The authors report a 
case of an isolated third nerve palsy as the only initial manifestation of 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma and emphasize the need for a high index of suspicion.
OBSERVATION: The patient presented with left painful pupil involving complete 
third nerve palsy. Contrast enhanced imaging was initially deferred due to renal 
impairment. Plain MRI with MRA brain was normal. Hematology was suggestive of 
giant cell arteritis which is a rare but well documented cause of painful nerve 
palsies in the elderly. Unresponsiveness to steroids prompted contrast imaging 
with a reduced gadolinium dosing and hemodialysis backup which finally revealed 
a nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
CONCLUSION AND IMPORTANCE: This report is the journey of a third nerve palsy 
from a clinical diagnosis of an aneurysm (pupil involving palsy) to a probable 
diagnosis of giant cell arteritis (based on hematology) and to a final diagnosis 
of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (based on contrast imaging and 
immunohistochemistry)Nasopharyngeal carcinoma can be successfully cured if 
detected early. This report highlights the various manifestations of 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma and challenges faced in diagnosing this elusive tumor.

© 2020 Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajoc.2020.100585
PMCID: PMC7031130
PMID: 32099933

Conflict of interest statement: Nil.


321. Sheng Li Xue Bao. 2020 Feb 25;72(1):48-62.

[Function and molecular mechanism of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in 
regulating oocyte meiotic maturation and ovulation].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen L(1), Jiang JC(1), Dai XX(1), Fan HY(2).

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Institute, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, China.
(2)Life Sciences Institute, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, China. 
hyfan@zju.edu.cn.

The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway is a highly 
conserved signal transduction pathway from yeast to human species, and is widely 
distributed in various eukaryotic cells. In almost all of the species studied 
over the past three decades, this signaling pathway plays a crucial role in the 
development of female germ cells and meiotic maturation. Especially in a variety 
of mammalian species including primates, rodents, and domestic animals, the MAPK 
signaling pathway is activated during the resumption of first oocyte meiosis and 
plays an indispensable role in meiotic spindle assembly and cell cycle 
progression. In granulosa cells of fully grown ovarian follicles, the MAPK 
pathway also mediates the physiological action of gonadotropins, including 
cumulus expansion, ovulation, and corpus luteum formation. Although the MAPK 
signaling pathway plays a wide range of physiological functions during the 
female reproduction process, and these functions are highly conserved in 
evolution, their underlying mechanisms, especially their direct and 
physiological target molecules, have not been sufficiently studied for a long 
time. In recent years, based on some new gene-editing mouse models and 
theoretical findings, as well as the wide application of various omics 
techniques, it has been further revealed that MAPK directly phosphorylates and 
activates the RNA binding protein cytoplasmic polyadenylation element-binding 
protein-1 (CPEB1), promoting poly(A) tail extension of maternal mRNA to regulate 
protein translation during meiotic recovery. These findings not only constitute 
the current basic mechanism of mammalian oocyte maturation and ovulation, but 
also provide useful research ideas for other related research in this field. In 
this review, we summarize the research findings in our laboratory and from other 
groups regarding the role of MAPK cascade in regulating oocyte maturation and 
ovulation. We also discuss the latest research progress on MAPK regulation of 
mRNA translation and degradation by directly activating the translation 
initiation complex and mRNA poly(A) polymerase by phosphorylation in the 
granulosa cells.

PMID: 32099983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. J Exp Bot. 2020 Apr 23;71(8):2451-2463. doi: 10.1093/jxb/eraa092.

New opportunities and insights into Papaver self-incompatibility by imaging 
engineered Arabidopsis pollen.

Wang L(1), Triviño M(1)(2)(3), Lin Z(2)(3), Carli J(1), Eaves DJ(4), Van Damme 
D(2)(3), Nowack MK(2)(3), Franklin-Tong VE(4), Bosch M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biological, Environmental and Rural Sciences (IBERS), 
Aberystwyth University, Plas Gogerddan, Aberystwyth, UK.
(2)Department of Plant Biotechnology and Genetics, Ghent University, Ghent, 
Belgium.
(3)VIB Center for Plant Systems Biology, Ghent, Belgium.
(4)School of Biosciences, College of Life and Environmental Sciences, University 
of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham, UK.

Pollen tube growth is essential for plant reproduction. Their rapid extension 
using polarized tip growth provides an exciting system for studying this 
specialized type of growth. Self-incompatibility (SI) is a genetically 
controlled mechanism to prevent self-fertilization. Mechanistically, one of the 
best-studied SI systems is that of Papaver rhoeas (poppy). This utilizes two 
S-determinants: stigma-expressed PrsS and pollen-expressed PrpS. Interaction of 
cognate PrpS-PrsS triggers a signalling network, causing rapid growth arrest and 
programmed cell death (PCD) in incompatible pollen. We previously demonstrated 
that transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana pollen expressing PrpS-green fluorescent 
protein (GFP) can respond to Papaver PrsS with remarkably similar responses to 
those observed in incompatible Papaver pollen. Here we describe recent advances 
using these transgenic plants combined with genetically encoded fluorescent 
probes to monitor SI-induced cellular alterations, including cytosolic calcium, 
pH, the actin cytoskeleton, clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME), and the 
vacuole. This approach has allowed us to study the SI response in depth, using 
multiparameter live-cell imaging approaches that were not possible in Papaver. 
This lays the foundations for new opportunities to elucidate key mechanisms 
involved in SI. Here we establish that CME is disrupted in self-incompatible 
pollen. Moreover, we reveal new detailed information about F-actin remodelling 
in pollen tubes after SI.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Society for Experimental Biology.

DOI: 10.1093/jxb/eraa092
PMCID: PMC7178406
PMID: 32100005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2020 Apr;180(3):665-674. doi: 
10.1007/s10549-020-05568-8. Epub 2020 Feb 25.

The long-term effect of age on cardiovascular disease in patients with breast 
cancer who received chemotherapy.

Jeon YW(1), Bang HW(2), Suh YJ(1), Kim G(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, St. Vincent's Hospital, The Catholic University of 
Korea, Suwon, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Surgery, Eunpyeong St. Mary's Hospital, The Catholic University 
of Korea, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine, St. Vincent's 
Hospital, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, 93 
Jungbu-daero, Paldal-gu, Suwon, 16247, Republic of Korea. 
jiheekim@catholic.ac.kr.

PURPOSE: As breast cancer survival has significantly improved and patient life 
expectancy has increased, greater numbers of elderly breast cancer survivors are 
at risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD). Therefore, this study investigated the 
impact of age on the incidence, mortality, and predictors of CVD following 
adjuvant chemotherapy in the late period of survivorship.
METHODS: 761 Patients who underwent chemotherapy were enrolled and divided into 
patients aged < 50 years (n = 413, 54.3%) and patients aged ≥ 50 years (n = 348, 
45.7%). Among the entire cohort, 445 patients underwent transthoracic 
echocardiography.
RESULTS: During long-term follow-up (median 122 months, range 12-340 months), 
CVD events developed in 50 (6.57%) patients, including 17 (4.1%) aged < 50 years 
and 33 (9.5%) aged ≥ 50 years (p = 0.003). 8 (1.1%) of 50 patients with CVD 
died, including 1 patient aged < 50 years and 7 patients aged ≥ 50 years. 
CVD-free survival was significantly lower in patients aged ≥ 50 years compared 
with patients aged < 50 years (p < 0.001). In multivariate analyses, 
age ≥ 50 years [p < 0.001, hazard ratio (HR) = 3.802, 95% confidence interval 
(CI) 1.986-7.278], the radio of the peak early and mitral tissue Doppler 
velocities (p = 0.014, HR = 1.102, 95% CI 1.020-1.190), and global longitudinal 
strain (p < 0.001, HR = 1.208, 95% CI 1.096-1.332) are significant predictors of 
CVD.
CONCLUSIONS: Age, diastolic function, and strain value in patients with breast 
cancer who underwent chemotherapy has a long-term effect on CVD. Therefore, it 
is important to consider ethnic and age-specific risks for CVD in breast cancer 
survivors.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-020-05568-8
PMID: 32100145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2020 May;27(13):15901-15911. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-020-08167-8. Epub 2020 Feb 25.

Environmental degradation and population health outcomes: a global panel data 
analysis.

Majeed MT(1), Ozturk I(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Economics, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(2)Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences, Cag University, Mersin, 
Turkey. ilhanozturk@cag.edu.tr.
(3)Department of Medical Research, China Medical University Hospital, China 
Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan. ilhanozturk@cag.edu.tr.
(4)Department of Finance, Asia University, 500, Lioufeng Rd., Wufeng, Taichung, 
41354, Taiwan. ilhanozturk@cag.edu.tr.

This study investigates the relationship between environmental degradation and 
population health using a global panel data of 180 countries from 1990 to 2016. 
The empirical analysis is conducted using fixed-effects approach based on 
Hausman test. Moreover, two-stage least squares (2SLS) and system-generalized 
method of moments (SGMM) are used to deal with the endogenous nature of 
environmental degradation. The indicators of life expectancy and infant 
mortality are used to measure population health, whereas environmental 
degradation is measured by CO2 emissions. The empirical findings show that 
environmental degradation negatively influences population health outcomes. It 
implies that countries having a high level of environmental degradation 
experience low life expectancy and high infant mortality rates. Findings of the 
study suggest that health-related reforms need to be aligned with policies which 
ensure lower environmental degradation.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-020-08167-8
PMID: 32100215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Drugs Aging. 2020 May;37(5):331-348. doi: 10.1007/s40266-020-00748-z.

The Evolving Complexity of Treating Hormone Receptor-Positive, Human Epidermal 
Growth Factor Receptor-2 (HER2)-Negative Breast Cancer: Special Considerations 
in Older Breast Cancer Patients-Part I: Early-Stage Disease.

Sammons S(1), Sedrak MS(2), Kimmick GG(3).

Author information:
(1)Duke Cancer Institute, Duke University School of Medicine, Box 3204 DUMC, 
Durham, NC, 27710, USA.
(2)City of Hope, Duarte, CA, USA.
(3)Duke Cancer Institute, Duke University School of Medicine, Box 3204 DUMC, 
Durham, NC, 27710, USA. Gretchen.kimmick@duke.edu.

The median age for breast cancer diagnosis is 62 years, but a disproportionate 
number of patients are over the age of 75 years and the majority of those have 
hormone receptor-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 
(HER2)-negative cancers. This review provides a logical algorithm to guide 
providers through the many complicated issues involved in adjuvant systemic 
therapy decisions in older patients with hormone receptor-positive, 
HER2-negative breast cancer. For this subtype of breast cancer, the mainstay of 
treatment is surgery and adjuvant endocrine therapy with tamoxifen or an 
aromatase inhibitor (AI). Adjuvant chemotherapy is added to the treatment 
regimen when the benefits of treatment are deemed to outweigh the risks, making 
the risk-benefit discussion particularly important in older women. Traditional 
tools for cancer risk assessment and genomic expression profiles (GEPs) are 
under-utilized in older patients, but yield equally useful information about 
cancer prognosis as they do in younger patients. Additionally, there are tools 
that estimate life-limiting toxicity risk from chemotherapy and life expectancy, 
which are both important issues in the risk-benefit discussion. For very 
low-risk cancers, such as non-invasive and small lymph node (LN)-negative 
cancers, the benefits of any adjuvant therapy is likely outweighed by the risks, 
but endocrine therapy might be considered to prevent future new breast cancers. 
For invasive tumors that are > 5 mm (T1b or larger) or involve LNs, adjuvant 
endocrine therapy is recommended. Generally, AIs should be included, though 
tamoxifen is effective and should be offered when AIs are not tolerated. 
Bone-preserving agents and high-dose vitamin D are options to preserve bone 
density or treat osteoporosis, especially in older women who are taking AIs. 
Where the risk-reducing benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy outweighs the 
toxicity risk, adjuvant chemotherapy should be considered. Adjuvant chemotherapy 
has similar benefits in older and younger patients and standard regimens are 
preferred. Several exciting clinic trials are underway and have included older 
patients, including those adding molecularly targeted agents, cyclin-dependent 
kinase (CDK) 4/6 inhibitors and everolimus, to endocrine therapy in the adjuvant 
setting. The high incidence of breast cancer in older women should drive us to 
design clinical trials for this population and emphasize their inclusion in 
ongoing trials as much as possible.

DOI: 10.1007/s40266-020-00748-z
PMID: 32100240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Aging (Albany NY). 2020 Feb 25;12(4):3502-3515. doi: 10.18632/aging.102826.
Epub  2020 Feb 25.

Successful aging: insights from proteome analyses of healthy centenarians.

Santos-Lozano A(1)(2), Valenzuela PL(3), Llavero F(4), Lista S(5)(6)(7), 
Carrera-Bastos P(8)(9), Hampel H(5), Pareja-Galeano H(10), Gálvez BG(10), López 
JA(11)(12), Vázquez J(11)(12), Emanuele E(13), Zugaza JL(4)(14)(15), Lucia 
A(2)(10)(16).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute of the Hospital 12 de Octubre ("imas12"), Madrid, Spain.
(2)i+HeALTH, European University Miguel de Cervantes, Valladolid, Spain.
(3)Systems Biology Department, University of Alcalá, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Achucarro Basque Center for Neuroscience, Science Park of the UPV/EHU, Leioa, 
Spain.
(5)Sorbonne University, GRC no. 21, Alzheimer Precision Medicine (APM), 
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris, France.
(6)Brain and Spine Institute (ICM), Paris, France.
(7)Institute of Memory and Alzheimer's Disease, Department of Neurology, 
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris, France.
(8)Centre for Primary Health Care Research, Lund University/Region Skane, Skane 
University Hospital, Malmo, Sweden.
(9)Nutriscience - Education and Consulting, Lisbon, Portugal.
(10)Faculty of Sport Sciences, European University of Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(11)Laboratory of Cardiovascular Proteomics, Centro Nacional de Investigaciones 
Cardiovasculares Carlos III (CNIC), Madrid, Spain.
(12)Centro Integrado de Investigación Biomédica en Red en Enfermedades 
Cardiovasculares (CIBERCV), Madrid, Spain.
(13)2E Science, Robbio, Italy.
(14)Department of Genetics, Physical Anthropology and Animal Physiology, Faculty 
of Science and Technology, UPV/EHU, Leioa, Spain.
(15)IKERBASQUE, Basque Foundation for Science, Bilbao, Spain.
(16)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red, Fragilidad y Envejecimiento 
Saludable (CIBERFES), Madrid, Spain.

Healthy aging depends on a complex gene-environment network that is ultimately 
reflected in the expression of different proteins. We aimed to perform a 
comparative analysis of the plasma proteome of healthy centenarians (n=9, 5 
women, age range 100-103 years) with a notably preserved ambulatory capacity (as 
a paradigm of 'successful' aging), and control individuals who died from a major 
age-related disease before the expected life expectancy (n=9, 5 women, age 
range: 67-81 years), and while having impaired ambulatory capacity (as a 
paradigm of 'unsuccessful' aging). We found that the expression of 49 proteins 
and 86 pathways differed between the two groups. Overall, healthy centenarians 
presented with distinct expression of proteins/pathways that reflect a healthy 
immune function, including a lower pro-inflammatory status (less 'inflammaging' 
and autoimmunity) and a preserved humoral immune response (increased B 
cell-mediated immune response). Compared with controls, healthy centenarians 
also presented with a higher expression of proteins involved in angiogenesis and 
related to enhanced intercellular junctions, as well as a lower expression of 
proteins involved in cardiovascular abnormalities. The identification of these 
proteins/pathways might provide new insights into the biological mechanisms 
underlying the paradigm of healthy aging.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.102826
PMCID: PMC7066932
PMID: 32100723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


327. Biomed Mater. 2020 Jul 1;15(4):045024. doi: 10.1088/1748-605X/ab797b.

Modulation of neuronal cell affinity of composite scaffolds based on 
polyhydroxyalkanoates and bioactive glasses.

Lizarraga-Valderrama LR(1), Nigmatullin R, Ladino B, Taylor CS, Boccaccini AR, 
Knowles JC, Claeyssens F, Haycock JW, Roy I.

Author information:
(1)Applied Biotechnology Research Group, School of Life Sciences, College of 
Liberal Arts and Sciences, University of Westminster, London, United Kingdom. 
School of Life Sciences, Medical School, University of Nottingham, Nottigham, 
United Kingdom.

The biocompatibility and neuron regenerating properties of various bioactive 
glass (BG)/polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) blend composites were assessed in order to 
study their suitability for peripheral nerve tissue applications, specifically 
as lumen structures for nerve guidance conduits. BG/PHA blend composites were 
fabricated using Bioactive glass® 45 S5 (BG1) and BG 1393 (BG2) with the 25:75 
poly(3-hydroxyoctanoate/poly3-hydroxybutyrate), 25:75 P(3HO)/P(3HB) blend (PHA 
blend). Various concentrations of each BG (0.5 wt%, 1.0 wt% and 2.5 wt%) were 
used to determine the effect of BG on neuronal growth and differentiation, in 
single culture using NG108-15 neuronal cells and in a co-culture along with RN22 
Schwann cells. NG108-15 cells exhibited good growth and differentiation on all 
the PHA blend composites showing that both BGs have good biocompatibility at 0.5 
wt%, 1.0 wt% and 2.5 wt% within the PHA blend. The Young's modulus values 
displayed by all the PHA blend/BG composites ranged from 385.6 MPa to 1792.6 
MPa, which are able to provide the required support and protective effect for 
the regeneration of peripheral nerves. More specifically, the tensile strength 
obtained in the PHA blend/BG1 (1.0 wt%) (10.0 ± 0.6 MPa) was found to be similar 
to that of the rabbit peroneal nerve. This composite also exhibited the best 
biological performance in supporting growth and neuronal differentiation among 
all the substrates. The neurite extension on this composite was found to be 
remarkable with the neurites forming a complex connection network.

DOI: 10.1088/1748-605X/ab797b
PMID: 32100724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. JAMA Netw Open. 2020 Feb 5;3(2):e200023. doi:
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2020.0023.

Association of Leukocyte Telomere Length With Mortality Among Adult Participants 
in 3 Longitudinal Studies.

Arbeev KG(1), Verhulst S(2), Steenstrup T(3), Kark JD(4), Bagley O(1), 
Kooperberg C(5), Reiner AP(5)(6), Hwang SJ(7)(8), Levy D(7)(8), Fitzpatrick 
AL(6), Christensen K(9)(10), Yashin AI(1), Aviv A(11).

Author information:
(1)Biodemography of Aging Research Unit, Social Science Research Institute, Duke 
University, Durham, North Carolina.
(2)Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences, University of Groningen, 
the Netherlands.
(3)Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Biodemography, Institute of Public Health, 
University of South Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(4)Epidemiology Unit, Hebrew University-Hadassah School of Public Health and 
Community Medicine, Jerusalem, Israel.
(5)Division of Public Health Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 
Seattle, Washington.
(6)Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington, Seattle.
(7)Population Sciences Branch, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
