thermal analysis and cyclic tensile testing. A crosslinking density was achieved 
at 2.36 × 10-4 mol·cm-3 for DA-crosslinked mEVA; as a result, the stress at 100% 
extension was increased from 3.8 to 5.6 MPa, and tensile strength and elongation 
at break were kept as high as 30.3 MPa and 486%, respectively. The further 
introduction of 10 wt % zinc methacrylate increased the dynamic crosslinking 
density to 3.74 × 10-4 mol·cm-3 and the stress at 100% extension to 9.0 MPa, 
while providing a tensile strength of 28.4 MPa and strain at break of 308%. The 
combination of reversible DA covalent crosslinking and ionic network in mEVA 
enabled a fixing ratio of 76.4% and recovery ratio of 99.4%, exhibiting an 
enhanced shape memory performance, especially at higher temperatures. The 
enhanced shape memory and mechanical performance of the dual crosslinked mEVA 
showed promising reprocessing and recycling abilities of the end-of-life 
products in comparison to traditional peroxide initiated covalent crosslinked 
counterparts.

DOI: 10.3390/polym12040983
PMCID: PMC7240482
PMID: 32340183

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


44. Molecules. 2020 Apr 23;25(8):1968. doi: 10.3390/molecules25081968.

Analysis of Antioxidant Activity and Flavonoids Metabolites in Peel and Flesh of 
Red-Fleshed Apple Varieties.

Zhang X(1)(2), Xu J(1)(3), Xu Z(4), Sun X(1)(3), Zhu J(1)(2), Zhang Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Qingdao Key Laboratory of Genetic Development and Breeding in Horticultural 
Plants, Qingdao Agricultural University, Qingdao 266109, China.
(2)College of Horticulture, Qingdao Agricultural University, Qingdao 266109, 
China.
(3)College of Life Sciences, Qingdao Agricultural University, Qingdao 266109, 
China.
(4)Qingdao Agriculture Technology Extension Center, Qingdao 266071, China.

In this research, we compared the phenotypical characters, total anthocyanins 
content, total phenols content, and antioxidant activity of red-fleshed apple 
cultivars 'XJ4', 'QN-5', 'DH' and 'HX1' at three fruit developmental stages. A 
further flavonoids metabolites study was conducted in 'XJ4' and 'DH'. We found 
broader variation of total anthocyanins content in the peel of the four 
cultivars, which might result in larger differences of free radicals scavenging 
rate. The most significant difference in fruit phenotype, anthocyanins content, 
and DPPH scavenging rate was observed between 'XJ4' and 'DH' at mature stage. 
Therefore, the flavonoids metabolites of 'XJ4' and 'DH' at mature stage were 
compared to unveil the details of anthocyanins compounds. The unique compounds 
pelargonidin 3-O-β-d-glucoside and cyanidin-3-O-malonylhexoside were detected 
only in peel and flesh of 'XJ4' but not in 'DH', which might contribute to the 
purple peel and dark-red flesh color of 'XJ4'. Significantly decreased upstream 
metabolites in the early biosynthetic genes regulated domain were found only in 
'XJ4' peel but not in the flesh. This might explain why the anthocyanins content 
in 'XJ4' peel was decreased largely at the mature stage. Taken together, our 
findings will give some insight into the metabolites study in flavonoid 
biosynthetic pathway of red-fleshed apple.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25081968
PMCID: PMC7221745
PMID: 32340213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


45. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2020 Apr 23;17(8):2924. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph17082924.

Economic Problems and Loneliness as Factors Related to Subjective Unmet Health 
Needs in People with Chronic Diseases and Dependency.

López-Entrambasaguas OM(1), Martínez-Linares JM(1), Sola-García M(2), 
García-Redecillas C(2), Díaz-Meco-Niño AM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Universidad de Jaén, 23071 Jaén, Spain.
(2)Complejo Hospitalario de Jaén, Servicio Andaluz de Salud, 23007 Jaén, Spain.

Background: The continuous increase of people with chronic diseases is one of 
the greatest challenges for healthcare systems worldwide. Population growth and 
life expectancy means that an increasing number of people with chronic diseases 
and dependency need some kind of assistance to meet their needs. Determining 
these subjective unmet needs helps to understand the situation of these people. 
The aim of this study was to explore the perceptions of chronic patients over 65 
years of age from the day-care center toward subjective health needs that are 
not being met by the socio-health system. Methods: Qualitative 
exploratory-descriptive study. Through convenience sampling, we selected people 
with chronic diseases and dependency who used day-care centers and met the 
inclusion criteria. Focus groups were performed. The data were transcribed and a 
thematic analysis was carried out using Atlas.ti software. Results: The topics 
resulting from the analysis were classified into dissatisfaction of 
biological/physiological needs, psychological needs, social needs, and other 
issues that arose in both groups of participants which referred to the types of 
needs previously indicated. The issues related to social and psycho-social needs 
stood out. Conclusions: People with chronic diseases and dependency have their 
physiological needs covered with the help they receive, but their situation of 
dependency generates additional costs that worsen their economic situation. 
However, their greatest need is due to the loneliness they feel and the feeling 
they have of "being a burden" on their families.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph17082924
PMCID: PMC7216074
PMID: 32340277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


46. J Clin Med. 2020 Apr 23;9(4):1214. doi: 10.3390/jcm9041214.

The Effects of Granulocyte Colony-Stimulating Factor in Patients with a Large 
Anterior Wall Acute Myocardial Infarction to Prevent Left Ventricular 
Remodeling: A 10-Year Follow-Up of the RIGENERA Study.

Leone AM(1), D'Amario D(1), Cannata F(2), Graziani F(1), Borovac JA(2), Leone 
G(2), De Stefano V(2), Basile E(2), Siracusano A(2), Galiuto L(2), Locorotondo 
G(1), Porto I(1), Vergallo R(2), Canonico F(2), Restivo A(2), Rebuzzi AG(2), 
Crea F(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Sciences, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario 
Agostino Gemelli, IRCCS, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Largo A. Gemelli 
8, 00168 Rome, Italy.
(2)Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, 00168 Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND: the RIGENERA trial assessed the efficacy of granulocyte-colony 
stimulating factor (G-CSF) in the improvement of clinical outcomes in patients 
with severe acute myocardial infarction. However, there is no evidence available 
regarding the long-term safety and efficacy of this treatment.
METHODS: in order to evaluate the long-term effects on the incidence of major 
adverse events, on the symptom burden, on the quality of life and the mean life 
expectancy and on the left ventricular (LV) function, we performed a clinical 
and echocardiographic evaluation together with an assessment using the Minnesota 
Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire (MLHFQ) and the Seattle Heart Failure 
Model (SHFM) at 10-years follow-up, in the patients cohorts enrolled in the 
RIGENERA trial.
RESULTS: thirty-two patients were eligible for the prospective clinical and 
echocardiography analyses. A significant reduction in adverse LV remodeling was 
observed in G-CSF group compared to controls, 9% vs. 48% (p = 0.030). The New 
York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class was lower in G-CSF group vs. 
controls (p = 0.040), with lower burden of symptoms and higher quality of life 
(p = 0.049). The mean life expectancy was significantly higher in G-CSF group 
compared to controls (15 ± 4 years vs. 12 ± 4 years, p = 0.046. No difference 
was found in the incidence of major adverse events.
CONCLUSIONS: this longest available follow-up on G-CSF treatment in patients 
with severe acute myocardial infarction (AMI) showed that this treatment was 
safe and associated with a reduction of adverse LV remodeling and higher quality 
of life, in comparison with standard-of-care treatment.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm9041214
PMCID: PMC7230316
PMID: 32340315

Conflict of interest statement: A.M.L. received speaking honoraria from Bracco 
Imaging. The other authors have no conflict of interest to disclose.


47. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2020 Apr;36(2):96-103. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462320000124.

Using QALYs versus DALYs to measure cost-effectiveness: How much does it matter?

Feng X(1), Kim DD(1), Cohen JT(1), Neumann PJ(1), Ollendorf DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for Clinical 
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and disability-adjusted 
life-years (DALYs) are commonly used in cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) to 
measure health benefits. We sought to quantify and explain differences between 
QALY- and DALY-based cost-effectiveness ratios, and explore whether using one 
versus the other would materially affect conclusions about an intervention's 
cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: We identified CEAs using both QALYs and DALYs from the Tufts Medical 
Center CEA Registry and Global Health CEA Registry, with a supplemental search 
to ensure comprehensive literature coverage. We calculated absolute and relative 
differences between the QALY- and DALY-based ratios, and compared ratios to 
common benchmarks (e.g., 1× gross domestic product per capita). We converted 
reported costs into US dollars.
RESULTS: Among eleven published CEAs reporting both QALYs and DALYs, seven 
focused on pharmaceuticals and infectious disease, and five were conducted in 
high-income countries. Four studies concluded that the intervention was 
"dominant" (cost-saving). Among the QALY- and DALY-based ratios reported from 
the remaining seven studies, absolute differences ranged from approximately $2 
to $15,000 per unit of benefit, and relative differences from 6-120 percent, but 
most differences were modest in comparison with the ratio value itself. The 
values assigned to utility and disability weights explained most observed 
differences. In comparison with cost-effectiveness thresholds, conclusions were 
consistent regardless of the ratio type in ten of eleven cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that although QALY- and DALY-based ratios for 
the same intervention can differ, differences tend to be modest and do not 
materially affect comparisons to common cost-effectiveness thresholds.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462320000124
PMID: 32340631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Sci Rep. 2020 Apr 27;10(1):7065. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-63141-1.

Age-Period-Cohort Analysis of HIV Mortality in China: Data from the Global 
Burden of Disease Study 2016.

Gao D(#)(1), Zou Z(#)(1), Zhang W(1), Chen T(1), Cui W(1), Ma Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Child and Adolescent Health, School of Public Health, Peking 
University Health Science Center, Beijing, China.
(2)Institute of Child and Adolescent Health, School of Public Health, Peking 
University Health Science Center, Beijing, China. yinghuama@bjmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

The aim of this study was to investigate the long-term trends of human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) mortality in China and its associations with age, 
period and birth cohort. We used HIV mortality data obtained from the Global 
Burden of Disease Study (GBD) 2016 and analysed the data with an 
age-period-cohort framework. Age effects indicate different risks of different 
outcomes at specific periods in life; period effects reflect population- wide 
exposure at a circumscribed point in time; and cohort effects generally reflect 
differences in risk across birth cohorts.Our results showed that the overall 
annual percentage change (net drift) of HIV mortality was 11.3% (95% CI: 11.0% 
to 11.6%) for males and 7.2% (95% CI: 7.0% to 7.5%) for females, and the annual 
percentage changes in each age group (local drift) were greater than 5% 
(p < 0.01 for all) in both sexes. In the same birth cohort, the risk of death 
from HIV increased with age in both sexes after controlling for period effects, 
and the risk for each five-year period was 1.98 for males and 1.57 for females 
compared to their previous life stage. Compared to the period of 2002-2006, the 
relative risk (RR) of HIV mortality in 2012-2016 increased by 56.1% in males and 
3.7% in females, and compared to the 1955-1959 birth cohort, the cohort RRs 
increased markedly, by 82.9 times in males and 34.8 times in females. 
Considering the rapidly increasing risk of HIV mortality, Chinese policymakers 
should take immediate measures to target the key age group of 15-44 years in 
both sexes.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-63141-1
PMCID: PMC7184615
PMID: 32341364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


49. BMJ Glob Health. 2020 Mar 25;5(3):e002063. doi: 10.1136/bmjgh-2019-002063. 
eCollection 2020.

The global and national burden of chronic kidney disease attributable to ambient 
fine particulate matter air pollution: a modelling study.

Bowe B(1)(2), Artimovich E(1), Xie Y(1)(2), Yan Y(1)(3), Cai M(1)(2), Al-Aly 
Z(1)(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Center, VA Saint Louis Health Care System, Saint Louis, 
Missouri, USA.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, College for Public Health and 
Social Justice, Saint Louis University, Saint Louis, Missouri, USA.
(3)Division of Public Health Sciences, Department of Surgery, Washington 
University in Saint Louis School of Medicine, Saint Louis, Missouri, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, Washington University in Saint Louis School of 
Medicine, Saint Louis, Missouri, USA.
(5)Nephrology Section, Medicine Service, VA Saint Louis Helath Care System, 
Saint Louis, Missouri, USA.
(6)Institute for Public Health, Washington University in Saint Louis, Saint 
Louis, Missouri, USA.

INTRODUCTION: We aimed to integrate all available epidemiological evidence to 
characterise an exposure-response model of ambient fine particulate matter 
(PM2.5) and the risk of chronic kidney disease (CKD) across the spectrum of 
PM2.5 concentrations experienced by humans. We then estimated the global and 
national burden of CKD attributable to PM2.5.
METHODS: We collected data from prior studies on the association of PM2.5 with 
CKD and used an integrative meta-regression approach to build non-linear 
exposure-response models of the risk of CKD associated with PM2.5 exposure. We 
then estimated the 2017 global and national incidence, prevalence, 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) and deaths due to CKD attributable to 
PM2.5 in 194 countries and territories. Burden estimates were generated by 
linkage of risk estimates to Global Burden of Disease study datasets.
RESULTS: The exposure-response function exhibited evidence of an increase in 
risk with increasing PM2.5 concentrations, where the rate of risk increase 
gradually attenuated at higher PM2.5 concentrations. Globally, in 2017, there 
were 3 284 358.2 (95% UI 2 800 710.5 to 3 747 046.1) incident and 122 409 460.2 
(108 142 312.2 to 136 424 137.9) prevalent cases of CKD attributable to PM2.5, 
and 6 593 134.6 (5 705 180.4 to 7 479 818.4) DALYs and 211 019.2 (184 292.5 to 
236 520.4) deaths due to CKD attributable to PM2.5. The burden was 
disproportionately borne by low income and lower middle income countries and 
exhibited substantial geographic variability, even among countries with similar 
levels of sociodemographic development. Globally, 72.8% of prevalent cases of 
CKD attributable to PM2.5 and 74.2% of DALYs due to CKD attributable to PM2.5 
were due to concentrations above 10 µg/m3, the WHO air quality guidelines.
CONCLUSION: The global burden of CKD attributable to PM2.5 is substantial, 
varies by geography and is disproportionally borne by disadvantaged countries. 
Most of the burden is associated with PM2.5 levels above the WHO guidelines, 
suggesting that achieving those targets may yield reduction in CKD burden.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjgh-2019-002063
PMCID: PMC7173767
PMID: 32341805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


50. Pharmacoeconomics. 2020 Aug;38(8):809-818. doi: 10.1007/s40273-020-00916-4.

Adherence to Discounting Guidelines: Evidence from Over 2000 Published 
Cost-Effectiveness Analyses.

Kwok MQT(1), Kareem MA(1), Cash MJ(1), Lafferty F(1), Tobin K(1), O'Mahony 
JF(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Trinity College Dublin, Room 2.12, 2-4 Foster Place, 
Dublin, Ireland.
(2)School of Medicine, Trinity College Dublin, Room 2.12, 2-4 Foster Place, 
Dublin, Ireland. jfomahon@tcd.ie.

Previous studies have shown that not all cost-effectiveness analyses (CEAs) 
adhere to recommended guidelines on intertemporal discounting. This analysis 
investigates adherence in a sample of over 2000 CEAs from seven countries. 
Guideline discount rates were retrieved for Australia, Belgium, Canada, Ireland, 
The Netherlands, New Zealand and the UK. Data on the rates applied in published 
CEAs were retrieved from the Tufts CEA Registry from the sample countries within 
the periods covered by the discounting guidelines. The relationship between 
adherence and candidate explanatory factors were assessed using logistic 
regression. The analysis appraised 2270 CEAs. The overall rate of adherence to 
discounting recommendations was 79%. Country-specific adherence ranged from 28% 
in New Zealand to 87% in Belgium and the UK. Adherence in Australia and Canada 
was 73% and 66%, respectively. Adherence is statistically significantly higher 
in more recent studies, countries currently applying differential discounting 
and manufacturer-sponsored studies. Relative to the reference case of Australia, 
adherence is statistically significantly higher in the UK and lower in Canada 
and New Zealand. There is notable variation in the rates of adherence to 
discounting recommendations between countries and over time. Incomplete 
adherence raises concerns regarding the comparability of evidence between 
studies. In turn, this raises concerns regarding equity of access to scarce 
healthcare resources. Journal editors should ensure that adherence to 
discounting recommendations is assessed as part of the peer review process.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-020-00916-4
PMID: 32342439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2020;1228:3-22. doi: 10.1007/978-981-15-1792-1_1.

An Overview of the Beneficial Effects of Exercise on Health and Performance.

Kramer A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Sensorimotor Performance Lab, Department of Sport Science, University of 
Konstanz, Konstanz, Germany. andreas.kramer@uni-konstanz.de.
(2)FG Sports Science, University of Konstanz, Konstanz, Germany. 
andreas.kramer@uni-konstanz.de.

Life expectancy is steadily increasing in modern societies, and so are 
noncommunicable diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, obesity, and 
cancer, accounting for more than 70% of all deaths globally. The costs 
associated with these diseases are enormous, but it has been estimated that the 
majority of these noncommunicable diseases are preventable. In addition to an 
unhealthy diet, tobacco use, and harmful use of alcohol, physical inactivity is 
a key risk factor. Consequently, physical activity is a logical remedy, and in 
this chapter an overview of the numerous beneficial effects of physical activity 
on health and performance is given.The chapter is divided into three parts: 
First, the basics of physical activity and exercise are discussed, for instance 
exercise classification, exercise intensity operationalization, energy supply, 
and the acute effects of exercise such as blood flow redistribution and 
increased cardiac output. In the second part, the effects of exercise on 
physical performance are summarized. Specifically, it is discussed how 
endurance, strength, power, and balance can be improved. This discussion 
includes recommendations regarding the type, intensity, and duration of the 
exercise leading to improvements in one of these aspects of physical 
performance, as well as the mechanisms causing these adaptations. In the third 
part, the beneficial effects of physical activity on physical and mental health 
are outlined, with particular attention to cardiovascular diseases, the 
metabolic syndrome, musculoskeletal diseases, mood, anxiety, depression, and 
dementia.It can be concluded that with adequate programming, regular physical 
activity is an effective way to improve physical performance, improve physical 
and mental health, and reduce the risk factors for many noncommunicable diseases 
such as cardiovascular diseases, metabolic syndrome, sarcopenia, osteoporosis, 
and depression. In contrast to medication, physical exercise has no negative 
side effects, costs very little, and targets many health issues at once. If the 
multitude of beneficial effects of regular exercise were to be combined in a 
single low-cost drug, it would be prescribed for almost all types of physical 
and mental health issues.

DOI: 10.1007/978-981-15-1792-1_1
PMID: 32342447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2020;1228:271-287. doi: 10.1007/978-981-15-1792-1_18.

Exercise and Depressive Disorder.

Bueno-Antequera J(1)(2), Munguía-Izquierdo D(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Physical Performance Sports Research Center, Department of Sports and 
Computer Science, Section of Physical Education and Sports, Faculty of Sports 
Sciences, Universidad Pablo de Olavide, Seville, Spain.
(2)Research group in development Movimiento Humano, Universidad de Zaragoza, 
Zaragoza, Spain.
(3)Physical Performance Sports Research Center, Department of Sports and 
Computer Science, Section of Physical Education and Sports, Faculty of Sports 
Sciences, Universidad Pablo de Olavide, Seville, Spain. dmunizq@upo.es.
(4)Research group in development Movimiento Humano, Universidad de Zaragoza, 
Zaragoza, Spain. dmunizq@upo.es.
(5)Biomedical Research Networking Center on Frailty and Healthy Aging, Madrid, 
Spain. dmunizq@upo.es.

Depression is a psychiatric disorder characterized by low mood, loss of 
interest/enjoyment, and reduced energy and one of the five leading causes of 
disability and a major contributor to all-cause mortality worldwide. People with 
depression have, between others, a reduced life expectancy, worse quality of 
life and cardiorespiratory fitness, and increased risk of type 2 diabetes, 
compared to the general population. Furthermore, the economic burden of mental 
disorders including depression is evident, and it is expected to increase to 
more than double by 2030. Therefore, reducing the growing burden of mental 
disorders such as depression should be a health priority. Improved prevention 
and treatment are two key factors that may reduce the burden of depression. 
Pharmacological- and psychotherapy-based interventions have been traditionally 
considered for treating depression disorders; however, there is an increasing 
amount of scientific evidence confirming that physical activity and physical 
exercise should be highly considered in prevention and treatment of depressive 
disorders. In this chapter, we aim to summarize and discuss the research 
progress of physical activity and exercise in prevention and treatment of 
depressive disorder. Specifically, we summarized and discussed the research 
progress of the prognostic use of physical activity for incident depression, the 
importance of sedentary behavior and other outcomes typically improved by 
physical activity/exercise such as cardiorespiratory fitness for future 
depression, the research progress of the evidence of the benefits of exercise in 
people with depression disorders, the resistance training effects in adults and 
older adults with depression, and the recommendations for the prescription of 
exercise for people with depression.

DOI: 10.1007/978-981-15-1792-1_18
PMID: 32342464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2020;1228:317-332. doi: 10.1007/978-981-15-1792-1_21.

Exercise and Schizophrenia.

Bueno-Antequera J(1)(2), Munguía-Izquierdo D(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Physical Performance Sports Research Center, Department of Sports and 
Computer Science, Section of Physical Education and Sports, Faculty of Sports 
Sciences, Universidad Pablo de Olavide, Seville, Spain.
(2)Research Group in Development Movimiento Humano, Universidad de Zaragoza, 
Zaragoza, Spain.
(3)Physical Performance Sports Research Center, Department of Sports and 
Computer Science, Section of Physical Education and Sports, Faculty of Sports 
Sciences, Universidad Pablo de Olavide, Seville, Spain. dmunizq@upo.es.
(4)Research Group in Development Movimiento Humano, Universidad de Zaragoza, 
Zaragoza, Spain. dmunizq@upo.es.
(5)Biomedical Research Networking Center on Frailty and Healthy Aging, Madrid, 
Spain. dmunizq@upo.es.

Schizophrenia is a psychiatric disorder characterized by distortions of thinking 
and perception, with no strictly pathognomonic symptoms that can be divided into 
positive, negative, and cognitive symptom domains. People with schizophrenia 
have, between others, a reduced life expectancy and cardiorespiratory and 
muscular fitness and increased risk of cardiovascular disease, metabolic 
syndrome, obesity, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia compared to the general 
population. Furthermore, the economic burden of mental disorders including 
schizophrenia is evident and it is expected to increase to more than double by 
2030. Therefore, reducing the growing burden of mental disorders such as 
schizophrenia should be a health priority. Improved prevention and treatment are 
two key factors that may reduce the burden of schizophrenia. Pharmacological- 
and psychotherapy-based interventions have been traditionally considered for 
treating schizophrenia disorders; however, there is an increasing amount of 
scientific evidence confirming that physical activity and physical exercise 
should be highly considered in prevention and treatment of schizophrenia 
disorders. In this chapter, we aim to summarize and discuss the research 
progress of physical activity and exercise in prevention and treatment of 
schizophrenia disorder. Specifically, we summarized and discussed the research 
progress of the prognostic use of physical activity for incident schizophrenia; 
the importance of other outcomes typically improved by physical 
activity/exercise such as obesity and fitness (cardiorespiratory and muscular 
fitness) for future schizophrenia; the research progress of the evidence of the 
benefits of exercise in people with schizophrenia disorders differentiating 
between effects of exercise on varied health outcomes, cognitive functioning, 
and cardiorespiratory fitness; and finally the clinical practice 
recommendations.

DOI: 10.1007/978-981-15-1792-1_21
PMID: 32342467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. FASEB J. 2020 Jun;34(6):8155-8171. doi: 10.1096/fj.201903231R. Epub 2020 Apr
28.

Serum albumin-binding V(H) Hs with variable pH sensitivities enable tailored 
half-life extension of biologics.

van Faassen H(1), Ryan S(1), Henry KA(1)(2), Raphael S(1), Yang Q(1), Rossotti 
MA(1), Brunette E(1), Jiang S(1), Haqqani AS(1), Sulea T(3), MacKenzie CR(1), 
Tanha J(1)(2), Hussack G(1).

Author information:
(1)Human Health Therapeutics Research Centre, National Research Council Canada, 
Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Microbiology & Immunology, University of Ottawa, 
Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(3)Human Health Therapeutics Research Centre, National Research Council Canada, 
Montréal, QC, Canada.

Prolonged serum half-life is required for the efficacy of most protein 
therapeutics. One strategy for half-life extension is to exploit the long 
circulating half-life of serum albumin by incorporating a binding moiety that 
recognizes albumin. Here, we describe camelid single-domain antibodies (VH Hs) 
that bind the serum albumins of multiple species with moderate to high affinity 
at both neutral and endosomal pH and significantly extend the serum half-lives 
of multiple proteins in rats from minutes to days. We serendipitously identified 
an additional VH H (M75) that is naturally pH-sensitive: at endosomal pH, 
binding affinity for human serum albumin (HSA) was dramatically weakened and 
binding to rat serum albumin (RSA) was undetectable. Domain mapping revealed 
that M75 bound to HSA domain 1 and 2. Moreover, alanine scanning of HSA His 
residues suggested a critical role for His247, located in HSA domain 2, in M75 
binding and its pH dependence. Isothermal titration calorimetry experiments were 
suggestive of proton-linked binding of M75 to HSA, with differing binding 
enthalpies observed for full-length HSA and an HSA domain 1-domain 2 fusion 
protein in which surface-exposed His residues were substituted with Ala. M75 
conferred moderate half-life extension in rats, from minutes to hours, likely 
due to rapid dissociation from RSA during FcRn-mediated endosomal recycling in 
tandem with albumin conformational changes induced by M75 binding that prevented 
interaction with FcRn. Humanized VH Hs maintained in vivo half-life extension 
capabilities. These VH Hs represent a new set of tools for extending protein 
therapeutic half-life and one (M75) demonstrates a unique pH-sensitive binding 
interaction that can be exploited to achieve modest in vivo half-life.

© 2020 Her Majesty the Queen in Right of Canada The FASEB Journal © 2020 John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.201903231R
PMID: 32342547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2020 Sep;103(3):1283-1290. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.19-0622.

Cost-Effectiveness of Mass Treatment with Azithromycin for Reducing Child 
Mortality in Malawi: Secondary Analysis from the MORDOR Trial.

Hart JD(1), Kalua K(2), Keenan JD(3), Lietman TM(3), Bailey RL(1).

Author information:
(1)1London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Blantyre Institute for Community Outreach, Blantyre, Malawi.
(3)Francis I Proctor Foundation and Department of Ophthalmology, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, Califorina.

The recent Macrolides Oraux pour Réduire les Décès avec un Oeil sur la 
Résistance (MORDOR) trial reported a reduction in child mortality following 
biannual azithromycin mass drug administration (MDA). Here, we investigate the 
financial costs and cost-effectiveness from the health provider perspective of 
azithromycin MDA at the MORDOR-Malawi study site. During MORDOR, a 
cluster-randomized trial involving biannual azithromycin MDA or placebo to 
children aged 1-59 months, fieldwork-related costs were collected, including 
personnel, transport, consumables, overheads, training, and supervision. 
Mortality rates in azithromycin- and placebo-treated clusters were calculated 
overall and for the five health zones of Mangochi district. These were used to 
estimate the number needed to treat to avert one death and the costs per death 
and disability-adjusted life year (DALY) averted. The cost per dose of MDA was 
$0.74 overall, varying between $0.63 and $0.94 in the five zones. Overall, the 
number needed to treat to avert one death was 1,213 children; the cost per death 
averted was $898.47, and the cost per DALY averted was $9.98. In the three zones 
where mortality was lower in azithromycin-treated clusters, the number needed to 
treat to avert one death, cost per death averted, and cost per DALY averted, 
respectively, were as follows: 3,070, $2,899.24, and $32.31 in Monkey Bay zone; 
1,530, $1,214.42, and $13.49 in Chilipa zone; and 344, $217.98, and $2.42 in 
Namwera zone. This study is a preliminary cost-effectiveness analysis that 
indicates azithromycin MDA for reducing child mortality has the potential to be 
highly cost-effective in some settings in Malawi, but the reasons for 
geographical variation in effectiveness require further investigation.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.19-0622
PMCID: PMC7470598
PMID: 32342840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Radiother Oncol. 2020 May;146:223-229. doi: 10.1016/j.radonc.2020.04.001.
Epub  2020 Apr 6.

Practice recommendations for lung cancer radiotherapy during the COVID-19 
pandemic: An ESTRO-ASTRO consensus statement.

Guckenberger M(1), Belka C(2), Bezjak A(3), Bradley J(4), Daly ME(5), 
DeRuysscher D(6), Dziadziuszko R(7), Faivre-Finn C(8), Flentje M(9), Gore E(10), 
Higgins KA(4), Iyengar P(11), Kavanagh BD(12), Kumar S(13), Le Pechoux C(14), 
Lievens Y(15), Lindberg K(16), McDonald F(17), Ramella S(18), Rengan R(19), 
Ricardi U(20), Rimner A(21), Rodrigues GB(22), Schild SE(23), Senan S(24), 
Simone CB 2nd(25), Slotman BJ(24), Stuschke M(26), Videtic G(27), Widder J(28), 
Yom SS(29), Palma D(22).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Zurich, University of 
Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic address: Matthias.Guckenberger@usz.ch.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, LMU Klinikum, LMU Munich, Germany.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Princess Margaret Cancer Center, University 
of Toronto, Canada.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Winship Cancer Institute of Emory 
University, Atlanta, USA.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of California Davis 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Sacramento, USA.
(6)Department of Radiation Oncology (Maastro Clinic), Maastricht University 
Medical Center(+), GROW Research Institute, The Netherlands.
(7)Dept. of Oncology and Radiotherapy, Medical University of Gdansk, Poland.
(8)Division of Cancer Sciences, University of Manchester and The Christie NHS 
Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK.
(9)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Würzburg, JMU Würzburg, 
Germany.
(10)Department of Radiation Oncology, Medical College of Wisconsin and Zablocki 
VAMC, Milwaukee, USA.
(11)Department of Radiation Oncology, UT Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, 
USA.
(12)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Colorado, Aurora, USA.
(13)Department of Radiation Oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, 
USA.
(14)Department of Radiation Oncology, Gustave Roussy Cancer Campus, Villejuif, 
France.
(15)Department of Radiation Oncology, Ghent University Hospital and Ghent 
University, Belgium.
(16)Department of Head, Neck, Lung and Skin Cancer, Theme Cancer, Karolinska 
University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(17)Royal Marsden Hospital, London, UK.
(18)Radiation Oncology, Campus Bio-Medico University of Rome, Italy.
(19)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Washington School of 
Medicine, Seattle, USA.
(20)Department of Oncology, University of Turin, Italy.
(21)Department of Radiation Oncology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 
New York, USA.
(22)Division of Radiation Oncology, Western University, London, Canada.
(23)Department of Radiation Oncology, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, USA.
(24)Department of Radiation Oncology, Amsterdam UMC, The Netherlands.
(25)Department of Radiation Oncology, New York Proton Center and Memorial Sloan 
Kettering Cancer Center, USA.
(26)Department of Radiotherapy, University Duisburg-Essen, Germany.
(27)Department of Radiation Oncology, Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of 
Medicine of Case Western University, USA.
(28)Department of Radiation Oncology, Comprehensive Cancer Center, Medical 
University of Vienna, Austria.
(29)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of California San Francisco, 
USA.

Comment in
    Radiother Oncol. 2020 Jun;147:227-228.
    Radiother Oncol. 2020 Jun;147:229-230.

BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 pandemic has caused radiotherapy resource pressures and 
led to increased risks for lung cancer patients and healthcare staff. An 
international group of experts in lung cancer radiotherapy established this 
practice recommendation pertaining to whether and how to adapt radiotherapy for 
lung cancer in the COVID-19 pandemic.
METHODS: For this ESTRO & ASTRO endorsed project, 32 experts in lung cancer 
radiotherapy contributed to a modified Delphi consensus process. We assessed 
potential adaptations of radiotherapy in two pandemic scenarios. The first, an 
early pandemic scenario of risk mitigation, is characterized by an altered 
risk-benefit ratio of radiotherapy for lung cancer patients due to their 
increased susceptibility for severe COVID-19 infection, and minimization of 
patient travelling and exposure of radiotherapy staff. The second, a later 
pandemic scenario, is characterized by reduced radiotherapy resources requiring 
patient triage. Six common lung cancer cases were assessed for both scenarios: 
peripherally located stage I NSCLC, locally advanced NSCLC, postoperative 
radiotherapy after resection of pN2 NSCLC, thoracic radiotherapy and 
prophylactic cranial irradiation for limited stage SCLC and palliative thoracic 
radiotherapy for stage IV NSCLC.
RESULTS: In a risk-mitigation pandemic scenario, efforts should be made not to 
compromise the prognosis of lung cancer patients by departing from 
guideline-recommended radiotherapy practice. In that same scenario, postponement 
or interruption of radiotherapy treatment of COVID-19 positive patients is 
generally recommended to avoid exposure of cancer patients and staff to an 
increased risk of COVID-19 infection. In a severe pandemic scenario 
characterized by reduced resources, if patients must be triaged, important 
factors for triage include potential for cure, relative benefit of radiation, 
life expectancy, and performance status. Case-specific consensus recommendations 
regarding multimodality treatment strategies and fractionation of radiotherapy 
are provided.
CONCLUSION: This joint ESTRO-ASTRO practice recommendation established pragmatic 
and balanced consensus recommendations in common clinical scenarios of 
radiotherapy for lung cancer in order to address the challenges of the COVID-19 
pandemic.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.radonc.2020.04.001
PMCID: PMC7252074
PMID: 32342863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Eur J Neurol. 2020 Aug;27(8):1374-1381. doi: 10.1111/ene.14285. Epub 2020 May
 29.

Early data on long-term efficacy and safety of inotersen in patients with 
hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis: a 2-year update from the open-label 
extension of the NEURO-TTR trial.

Brannagan TH(1), Wang AK(2), Coelho T(3), Waddington Cruz M(4), Polydefkis 
MJ(5), Dyck PJ(6), Plante-Bordeneuve V(7), Berk JL(8), Barroso F(9), Merlini 
G(10), Conceição I(11), Hughes SG(12), Kwoh J(12), Jung SW(12), Guthrie S(13), 
Pollock M(14), Benson MD(15), Gertz M(6); NEURO-TTR open-label extension 
investigators.

Collaborators: Drachman B, Gorevic P, Heitner S, Scheinberg M, Schmidt H, Whelan 
C, Adams D, Campistol Plana JM, Gamez J, Gane E, Kristen A, Obici L, Salvi F, 
Souza Bulle Oliveira A, Vita G.

Author information:
(1)Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(2)University of California, Irvine, Orange, CA, USA.
(3)Centro Hospitalar do Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(4)CEPARM, Amyloidosis Referral Center, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(5)Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(6)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(7)CHU Henri Mondor, Creteil, France.
(8)Boston University, Boston, MA, USA.
(9)FLENI, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(10)Amyloidosis Center, IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, University of Pavia, 
Pavia, Italy.
(11)CHULN, Hospital Santa Maria and Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de 
Lisboa, Lisboa, Portugal.
(12)Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Carlsbad, CA, USA.
(13)Aurora Bio, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(14)Akcea Therapeutics, Inc., Boston, MA, USA.
(15)Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Hereditary transthyretin (hATTR) amyloidosis causes 
progressive polyneuropathy resulting from transthyretin (TTR) amyloid deposition 
throughout the body, including the peripheral nerves. The efficacy and safety of 
inotersen, an antisense oligonucleotide inhibitor of TTR protein production, 
were demonstrated in the pivotal NEURO-TTR study in patients with hATTR 
polyneuropathy. Here, the long-term efficacy and safety of inotersen are 
assessed in an ongoing open-label extension (OLE) study.
METHODS: Patients who completed NEURO-TTR were eligible to enroll in the OLE 
(NCT02175004). Efficacy assessments included the modified Neuropathy Impairment 
Score plus seven neurophysiological tests composite score (mNIS + 7), the 
Norfolk Quality of Life - Diabetic Neuropathy (Norfolk QOL-DN) questionnaire 
total score and the Short-Form 36 Health Survey (SF-36) Physical Component 
Summary (PCS) score. Safety and tolerability were also assessed.
RESULTS: Overall, 97% (135/139) of patients who completed NEURO-TTR enrolled in 
the OLE. Patients who received inotersen for 39 cumulative months in NEURO-TTR 
and the OLE continued to show benefit; patients who switched from placebo to 
inotersen in the OLE demonstrated improvement or stabilization of neurological 
disease progression by mNIS + 7, Norfolk QOL-DN and SF-36 PCS. No new safety 
concerns were identified. There was no evidence of increased risk for grade 4 
thrombocytopenia or severe renal events with increased duration of inotersen 
exposure.
CONCLUSION: Inotersen slowed disease progression and reduced deterioration of 
quality of life in patients with hATTR polyneuropathy. Early treatment with 
inotersen resulted in greater long-term disease stabilization than delayed 
initiation. Routine platelet and renal safety monitoring were effective; no new 
safety signals were observed.

© 2020 The Authors. European Journal of Neurology published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd on behalf of European Academy of Neurology.

DOI: 10.1111/ene.14285
PMCID: PMC7496583
PMID: 32343462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Thomas Brannagan: Advisory boards for Akcea 
Therapeutics, Pfizer and Alnylam Pharmaceuticals; study investigator for Ionis 
Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Alnylam Pharmaceuticals; speaker for Alnylam 
Pharmaceuticals; received honoraria for speaking for Akcea Therapeutics. Annabel 
K. Wang: Study investigator, consultant and speaker for Ionis Pharmaceuticals 
Inc. Teresa Coelho: Financial support to attend scientific meetings from Pfizer, 
Alnylam and Biogen. Márcia Waddington Cruz: Consulting and travel honoraria from 
NHI, Prothena, FoldRx, Ionis, Pfizer, Alnylam, PTC; principal investigator for 
Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc. Michael J. Polydefkis: Honoraria from Pfizer and 
Alnylam Pharmaceuticals Inc. Peter J. Dyck: Training and consulting honoraria 
from Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Alnylam Pharmaceuticals. Violaine 
Plante‐Bordeneuve: Consulting honoraria from Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Ionis and 
Pfizer and travel honoraria from Ionis. John L. Berk: Honoraria from Ionis 
Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Alnylam Pharmaceuticals; study investigator for Ionis 
Pharmaceuticals Inc., Alnylam Pharmaceuticals and Pfizer. Fabio Barroso: 
Honoraria for conducting clinical research from Ionis Pharmaceuticals. Giampaolo 
Merlini: Advisory committee for Pfizer and Janssen. Isabel Conceição: 
Consultancy for Alnylam and Pfizer; honoraria from Alnylam, Pfizer and Sanofi; 
speakers bureau for Alnylam, Pfizer and Sanofi. Steven G. Hughes: Consultant for 
Ionis Pharmaceuticals and Akcea Therapeutics. Jesse Kwoh and Shiangtung Jung: 
Employed by Ionis Pharmaceuticals. Spencer Guthrie: (formerly) Employed by Akcea 
Therapeutics. Michael Pollock: Employed by Akcea Therapeutics. Merrill D. 
Benson: Study investigator for Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc. Morie Gertz: 
Consulting honoraria from Ionis, AbbVie, Alnylam, Amgen, Annexon, Appellis, 
Celgene, Janssen, Medscape, Physicians Education Resource, Prothena, Research to 
Practice, Teva and Spectrum, and grants from Spectrum.


58. Am J Transplant. 2020 Dec;20(12):3520-3528. doi: 10.1111/ajt.15942. Epub 2020
 May 16.

Burden of anal squamous cell carcinoma, squamous intraepithelial lesions and 
HPV16 infection in solid organ transplant recipients: A systematic review and 
meta-analysis.

Albuquerque A(1)(2), Stirrup O(3), Nathan M(4), Clifford GM(5).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine of the University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(2)St. James's University Hospital, Leeds, UK.
(3)Centre for Clinical Research in Infection and Sexual Heath, Institute for 
Global Health, University College London, London, UK.
(4)Homerton University Hospital, London, UK.
(5)International Agency for Research on Cancer, Lyon, France.

The number of solid organ transplant recipients (SOTR), and their life 
expectancy, is increasing, with higher risk for long-term complications from 
immunosuppression. We carried out a systematic review describing the burden of 
anal squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), and its surrogates, in SOTR. We conducted 
mixed effect model-based meta-analyses evaluating incidence of anal SCC 
(standardized incidence ratio [SIR] vs general population, and absolute 
incidence rate [IR]), prevalence of anal squamous abnormalities, and human 
papillomavirus (HPV) 16. Generalized I2 statistics were calculated, quantifying 
heterogeneity. Anal SCC incidence in SOTR was elevated vs the general population 
(pooled SIR = 6.8, 95% confidence interval [CI], 4.3-10.9; 6 studies including 
241 106 SOTR; I2  = 82.3%), with an absolute IR of 12.3 (95% CI, 10.4-14.7) per 
100 000 person-years (5 studies including 1 079 489 person-years; I2  = 0%). 
Prevalence of abnormal anal cytology was 12.9% (95% CI, 9.2%-17.7%; 6 studies 
including 328 SOTR; I2  = 17.4%). For histology, the pooled prevalence estimate 
of anal squamous intraepithelial lesions was 22.4% (95% CI, 17.3%-28.5%; 3 
studies including 214 SOTR; I2  = 0%), with 4.7% (95% CI, 2.5%-8.5%; I2  = 0%) 
high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions. Pooled anal HPV16 prevalence was 
3.6% (95% CI, 1.6%-7.8%; 4 studies including 254 SOTR; I2  = 17.6%). There was 
substantial and consistent evidence of elevated anal SCC incidence in SOTR.

© 2020 The American Society of Transplantation and the American Society of 
Transplant Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ajt.15942
PMID: 32343489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Nano Lett. 2020 May 13;20(5):3122-3129. doi: 10.1021/acs.nanolett.9b05121.
Epub  2020 May 4.

Spatial Heterojunction in Nanostructured TiO(2) and Its Cascade Effect for 
Efficient Photocatalysis.

Lu Y(1)(2), Liu XL(2), He L(1), Zhang YX(3), Hu ZY(4)(5), Tian G(1), Cheng X(1), 
Wu SM(1)(2), Li YZ(1), Yang XH(6), Wang LY(7), Liu JW(1), Janiak C(8), Chang 
GG(1), Li WH(2), Van Tendeloo G(4)(5), Yang XY(1)(2)(9), Su BL(1)(10).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Advanced Technology for Materials Synthesis and 
Processing & School of materials science and engineering & School of Chemistry, 
Chemical Engineering and Life Science, Wuhan University of Technology, Wuhan 
430070, China.
(2)Southern Marine Science and Engineering Guangdong Laboratory (Zhuhai) & 
School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, School of Materials, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Zhuhai 519000, China.
(3)Hubei Collaborative Innovation Center for Advanced Organic Chemical 
Materials, Ministry-of-Education Key Laboratory for the Synthesis and 
Application of Organic Functional Molecules, College of Chemistry and Chemical 
Engineering, Hubei University, Wuhan 430062, China.
(4)Nanostructure Research Centre, Wuhan University of Technology, Wuhan 430070, 
China.
(5)Electron Microscopy for Materials Science, University of Antwerp, Antwerpen 
B-2020, Belgium.
(6)College of Chemistry, Jilin University, Changchun, 130023, China.
(7)State Key Laboratory of Magnetic Resonance and Atomic and Molecular Physics, 
Wuhan Institute of Physics and Mathematics, The Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Wuhan 430071, China.
(8)Institut für Anorganische Chemie und Strukturchemie, 
Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf 40204, Germany.
(9)School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge 
02138, Massachusetts, United States.
(10)Laboratory of Inorganic Materials Chemistry, University of Namur, Namur 
B-5000, Belgium.

A highly efficient photoenergy conversion is strongly dependent on the 
cumulative cascade efficiency of the photogenerated carriers. Spatial 
heterojunctions are critical to directed charge transfer and, thus, attractive 
but still a challenge. Here, a spatially ternary titanium-defected TiO2@carbon 
quantum dots@reduced graphene oxide (denoted as VTi@CQDs@rGO) in one system is 
shown to demonstrate a cascade effect of charges and significant performances 
regarding the photocurrent, the apparent quantum yield, and photocatalysis such 
as H2 production from water splitting and CO2 reduction. A key aspect in the 
construction is the technologically irrational junction of Ti-vacancies and 
nanocarbons for the spatially inside-out heterojunction. The new "spatial 
heterojunctions" concept, characteristics, mechanism, and extension are proposed 
at an atomic-/nanoscale to clarify the generation of rational heterojunctions as 
well as the cascade electron transfer.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.nanolett.9b05121
PMID: 32343586


60. PLoS One. 2020 Apr 28;15(4):e0231973. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0231973. 
eCollection 2020.

Effect of the level of "Candidatus Liberibacter solanacearum" infection on the 
development of zebra chip disease in different potato genotypes at harvest and 
post storage.

Cruzado RK(1), Rashidi M(1)(2), Olsen N(3), Novy RG(4), Wenninger EJ(5), 
Bosque-Pérez NA(6), Karasev AV(6), Price WJ(7), Rashed A(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Plant Pathology and Nematology, Aberdeen R&E 
Center, University of Idaho, Aberdeen, Idaho, United States of America.
(2)Department of Plant Pathology, Citrus Research and Education Center, 
University of Florida, Lake Alfred, Florida, United States of America.
(3)Department of Plant Sciences, Kimberly Research & Extension Center, 
University of Idaho, Kimberly, Idaho, United States of America.
(4)Small Grains and Potato Germplasm Research Unit, United States Department of 
Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, Aberdeen, Idaho, United States of 
America.
(5)Department of Entomology, Plant Pathology and Nematology, Kimberly Research & 
Extension Center, University of Idaho, Kimberly, Idaho, United States of 
America.
(6)Department of Entomology, Plant Pathology and Nematology, University of 
Idaho, Moscow, Idaho, United States of America.
(7)Statistical Programs, College of Agricultural and Life Sciences, University 
of Idaho, Moscow, Idaho, United States of America.

Potato psyllid (Bactericera cockerelli Sulc)-transmitted "Candidatus 
Liberibacter solanacearum" (Lso) has been negatively impacting the potato 
industry in the United States as well as other potato-producing countries. Lso 
has been linked to a condition known as zebra chip (ZC) that affects yield and 
quality of potato tubers. Efforts to find sources of resistance to ZC have 
primarily focused on greenhouse evaluations based on a single inoculation time 
prior to harvest. Plant response to infection, however, could be influenced by 
the developmental stage of the host plant, and ZC may continue to develop after 
harvest. The objectives of this study were to quantify Lso inoculation success, 
Lso titer, ZC severity and Lso development during storage in eight potato 
genotypes. These evaluations were conducted on plants infested with Lso-positive 
psyllids at 77, 12, and 4 days before vine removal (DBVR). The evaluated 
genotypes were categorized according to their relative resistance to Lso and 
tolerance to ZC symptoms. Lso inoculation success in the genotype family A07781, 
derived from Solanum chacoense, was lower than that of the susceptible control 
('Russet Burbank'). A07781-4LB and A07781-3LB genotypes were characterized 
relatively resistant to the pathogen and highly tolerant to ZC symptoms, while 
A07781-10LB was categorized as susceptible to Lso but relatively tolerant to 
symptom expression. In stored potatoes, increase in Lso concentrations was 
observed for all infestation times. However, significantly higher Lso titer was 
detected in tubers infested 12 DBVR and the effect was similar across genotypes. 
Overall, the A07781 family can be considered as a promising source of resistance 
or tolerance to ZC.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0231973
PMCID: PMC7188252
PMID: 32343710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: NO authors have competing interests.61. J Palliat Med. 2020 Oct;23(10):1357-1364. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2019.0621. Epub
2020  Apr 27.

Subcutaneous Lidocaine for Cancer-Related Pain.

Hawley P(1)(2), Fyles G(2)(3), Jefferys SG(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Pain and Symptom Management/Palliative Care Department, BC Cancer, Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada.
(2)Division of Palliative Care, Interdepartmental Division of Departments of 
Medicine, Family Practice, and Pediatrics, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(3)Pain and Symptom Management/Palliative Care Program, BC Cancer, Kelowna, 
British Columbia, Canada.
(4)Anesthesiology, Pharmacology, and Therapeutics, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of British Columbia-Okanagan, Kelowna, British Columbia, Canada.

Background: Intravenous lidocaine infusions have been shown to be effective for 
cancer related pain, but access is restricted to acute care settings. If able to 
be shown to be safe and effective, the subcutaneous route could expand access to 
residential hospices or patients' homes. Objectives: This randomized, 
double-blind, placebo controlled, 2 × 2 crossover trial evaluated the 
effectiveness, safety, toxicity, and impact on quality of life of a limited 
duration subcutaneous lidocaine infusion (SCLI) for chronic cancer pain. 
Methods: Patients with the life expectancy of three months or more, who were 
experiencing cancer-related pain with a worst severity of at least 4 on a 0-10 
scale despite a trial of at least one opioid and appropriate adjuvant analgesic, 
received two subcutaneous infusions at least a week apart; lidocaine 10 mg/kg 
over 5.5 hours and saline placebo. The primary outcome was either a reduction in 
worst pain intensity of two points out of 10 or a reduction in 24 hours opioid 
dose of at least 30% without worsening of pain scores, in seven days. Results: 
The SCLI was only effective for two subjects. One of these subjects experienced 
a drop in worst pain score and the other experienced a reduction in opioid dose. 
Conclusions: A weight-based subcutaneous infusion of lidocaine does not achieve 
sufficiently predictable blood levels for determining lidocaine responsiveness. 
This study does not allow any conclusion to be drawn on whether or not lidocaine 
would have been more effective had it been titrated to higher blood levels.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2019.0621
PMID: 32343918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. J Glob Antimicrob Resist. 2020 Jun;21:342-352. doi:
10.1016/j.jgar.2020.03.026.  Epub 2020 Apr 25.

Diversity analysis and metagenomic insights into antibiotic and metal resistance 
among Himalayan hot spring bacteriobiome insinuating inherent environmental 
baseline levels of antibiotic and metal tolerance.

Najar IN(1), Sherpa MT(2), Das S(3), Das S(4), Thakur N(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, School of Life Sciences, Sikkim University, 6th 
Mile, Samdur, Tadong, Gangtok 737102, Sikkim, India. Electronic address: 
urooj.ishfaq@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Microbiology, School of Life Sciences, Sikkim University, 6th 
Mile, Samdur, Tadong, Gangtok 737102, Sikkim, India. Electronic address: 
