
872. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2020 Mar 6;20(10):1-234. eCollection 2020.

Gene Expression Profiling Tests for Early-Stage Invasive Breast Cancer: A Health 
Technology Assessment.

Ontario Health (Quality).

Collaborators: Wang M, Zhang Y, Shafique A, Walter M.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is a disease in which cells in the breast grow out of 
control. They often form a tumour that may be seen on an x-ray or felt as a 
lump.Gene expression profiling (GEP) tests are intended to help predict the risk 
of metastasis (spread of the cancer to other parts of the body) and to identify 
people who will most likely benefit from chemotherapy. We conducted a health 
technology assessment of four GEP tests (EndoPredict, MammaPrint, Oncotype DX, 
and Prosigna) for people with early-stage invasive breast cancer, which included 
an evaluation of effectiveness, safety, cost effectiveness, the budget impact of 
publicly funding GEP tests, and patient preferences and values.
METHODS: We performed a systematic literature search of the clinical evidence. 
We assessed the risk of bias of each included study using either the Cochrane 
Risk of Bias tool, Prediction model Risk Of Bias ASsessment Tool (PROBAST), or 
Risk of Bias Assessment tool for Non-randomized Studies (RoBANS), depending on 
the type of study and outcome of interest, and the quality of the body of 
evidence according to the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, 
and Evaluation (GRADE) Working Group criteria. We also performed a literature 
survey of the quantitative evidence of preferences and values of patients and 
providers for GEP tests.We performed an economic evidence review to identify 
published studies assessing the cost-effectiveness of each of the four GEP tests 
compared with usual care or with one another for people with early-stage 
invasive breast cancer. We adapted a decision-analytic model to compare the 
costs and outcomes of care that includes a GEP test with usual care without a 
GEP test over a lifetime horizon. We also estimated the budget impact of 
publicly funding GEP tests to be conducted in Ontario, compared with funding 
tests conducted through the out-of-country program and compared with no funding 
of tests in any location.To contextualize the potential value of GEP tests, we 
spoke with people who have been diagnosed with early-stage invasive breast 
cancer.
RESULTS: We included 68 studies in the clinical evidence review. Within the 
lymph-node-negative (LN-) population, GEP tests can prognosticate the risk of 
distant recurrence (GRADE: Moderate) and may predict chemotherapy benefit 
(GRADE: Low). The evidence for prognostic and predictive ability (ability to 
indicate the risk of an outcome and ability to predict who will benefit from 
chemotherapy, respectively) was lower for the lymph-node-positive (LN+) 
population (GRADE: Very Low to Low). GEP tests may also lead to changes in 
treatment (GRADE: Low) and generally may increase physician confidence in 
treatment recommendations (GRADE: Low).Our economic evidence review showed that 
GEP tests are generally cost-effective compared with usual care.Our primary 
economic evaluation showed that all GEP test strategies were more effective (led 
to more quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]) than usual care and can be 
considered cost-effective below a willingness-to-pay of $20,000 per QALY gained. 
There was some uncertainty in our results. At a willingness-to-pay of $50,000 
per QALY gained, the probability of each test being cost-effective compared to 
usual care was 63.0%, 89.2%, 89.2%, and 100% for EndoPredict, MammaPrint, 
Oncotype DX, and Prosigna, respectively.Sensitivity analyses showed our results 
were robust to variation in subgroups considered (i.e., LN+ and premenopausal), 
discount rates, age, and utilities. However, cost parameter assumptions did 
influence our results. Our scenario analysis comparing tests showed Oncotype DX 
was likely cost-effective compared with MammaPrint, and Prosigna was likely 
cost-effective compared with EndoPredict. When the GEP tests were compared with 
a clinical tool, the cost-effectiveness of the tests varied. Assuming a higher 
uptake of GEP tests, we estimated the budget impact to publicly fund GEP tests 
in Ontario would be between $1.29 million (Year 1) and $2.22 million (Year 5) 
compared to the current scenario of publicly funded GEP tests through the 
out-of-country program.Gene expression profiling tests are valued by patients 
and physicians for the additional information they provide for treatment 
decision-making. Patients are satisfied with what they learn from GEP tests and 
feel GEP tests can help reduce decisional uncertainty and anxiety.
CONCLUSIONS: Gene expression profiling tests can likely prognosticate the risk 
of distant recurrence and some tests may also predict chemotherapy benefit. In 
people with breast cancer that is ER+, LN-, and human epidermal growth factor 
receptor 2 (HER2)-negative, GEP tests are likely cost-effective compared with no 
testing. The GEP tests are also likely cost-effective in LN+ and premenopausal 
people. Compared with funding GEP tests through the out-of-country program, 
publicly funding GEP tests in Ontario would cost an additional $1 million to $2 
million annually, assuming a higher uptake of tests. GEP tests are valued by 
both patients and physicians for chemotherapy treatment decision-making.

Copyright © Queen's Printer for Ontario, 2020.

PMCID: PMC7143374
PMID: 32284770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Orthop J Sports Med. 2020 Apr 6;8(4):2325967120911106. doi: 
10.1177/2325967120911106. eCollection 2020 Apr.

Activity Modification and Knee Strengthening for Osgood-Schlatter Disease: A 
Prospective Cohort Study.

Rathleff MS(1)(2)(3), Winiarski L(3), Krommes K(2)(4), Graven-Nielsen T(5), 
Hölmich P(4), Olesen JL(2)(6), Holden S(1)(2), Thorborg K(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Sensory-Motor Interaction, Department of Health Science and 
Technology, Faculty of Medicine, Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark.
(2)Center for General Practice at Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark.
(3)Department of Physiotherapy and Occupational Therapy, Aalborg University 
Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark.
(4)Sports Orthopedic Research Center-Copenhagen, Department of Orthopaedic 
Surgery, Copenhagen University Hospital, Amager-Hvidovre, Denmark.
(5)Center for Neuroplasticity and Pain, Center for Sensory-Motor Interaction, 
Department of Health Science and Technology, Faculty of Medicine, Aalborg 
University, Aalborg, Denmark.
(6)Institute of Sports Medicine, Bispebjerg Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Osgood-Schlatter disease (OSD) affects 1 in 10 adolescents. There is 
a lack of evidence-based interventions, and passive approaches (eg, rest and 
avoidance of painful activities) are often prescribed.
PURPOSE: To investigate an intervention consisting of education on activity 
modification and knee-strengthening exercises designed for adolescents with OSD.
STUDY DESIGN: Case series; Level of evidence, 4.
METHODS: This study included 51 adolescents (51% female; age range, 10-14 years) 
with OSD. The 12-week intervention consisted of an activity ladder designed to 
manage patellar tendon loading and pain, knee-strengthening exercises, and a 
gradual return to sport. The primary outcome was the global reporting of change 
at 12 weeks, evaluated with a 7-point Likert scale (successful outcome was 
considered "much improved" or "improved"). Additional endpoints were at 4, 8, 
26, and 52 weeks. Secondary outcomes included the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis 
Outcome Score (KOOS), objective strength, and jump performance.
RESULTS: Adolescents reported a mean pain duration of 21 months at enrollment. 
After 12 weeks, 80% reported a successful outcome, which increased to 90% at 12 
months. At 12 weeks, 16% returned to playing sport, which increased to 69% at 12 
months. The KOOS subscores of Pain, Activities of Daily Living, Sport and 
Recreation, and Quality of Life improved significantly (7-20 points), and there 
were improvements in knee extension strength (32%; P < .001), hip abduction 
strength (24%; P < .001), and jumping for distance (14%; P < .001) and height 
(19%; P < .001) at 12 weeks.
CONCLUSION: An intervention consisting of activity modification, pain 
monitoring, progressive strengthening, and a return-to-sport paradigm was 
associated with improved self-reported outcomes, hip and knee muscle strength, 
and jumping performance. This approach may offer an alternative to passive 
approaches such as rest or wait-and-see, often prescribed for adolescents with 
OSD.
REGISTRATION: NCT02799394 (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier).

© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1177/2325967120911106
PMCID: PMC7137138
PMID: 32284945

Conflict of interest statement: One or more of the authors has declared the 
following potential conflict of interest or source of funding: This work was 
supported by the Danish Council for Independent Research (DFF-4004-00247B) and 
the TRYG Foundation (grant ID: 118547). Center for Neuroplasticity and Pain is 
supported by the Danish National Research Foundation (DNRF121). AOSSM has not 
conducted an independent investigation on the OPD and disclaims any liability or 
responsibility relating thereto.


874. Food Funct. 2020 Apr 30;11(4):3598-3609. doi: 10.1039/c9fo02845e.

Raspberry extract promoted longevity and stress tolerance via the insulin/IGF 
signaling pathway and DAF-16 in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Song B(1), Zheng B(2), Li T(3), Liu RH(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Food Sciences and Engineering, South China University of 
Technology, Guangzhou 510641, China. febzheng@scut.edu.cn.
(2)School of Food Sciences and Engineering, South China University of 
Technology, Guangzhou 510641, China. febzheng@scut.edu.cn and Guangdong ERA Food 
& Life Health Research Institute, Guangzhou, 510530, China.
(3)Department of Food Science, Stocking Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 
14853, USA. rl23@cornell.edu.

Increased consumption of fruits and vegetables is associated with a reduced risk 
of age-related functional decline and chronic diseases, which is primarily 
attributed to phytochemicals. Raspberries are rich in phytochemicals with a wide 
range of biological activities and health benefits. However, little is known 
about their effects on aging. The objective of this study was to determine 
whether raspberry extract (RE) could promote lifespan and stress resistance in 
Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans), and to explore the underlying mechanisms of 
action. The results showed that the mean lifespan of C. elegans treated with RE 
at 20, 40 and 80 mg mL-1 was significantly increased by 13.6%, 22.9% and 29.7%, 
respectively, in a dose-dependent manner. Supplementation with RE decreased the 
accumulation of lipofuscin and extended the healthspan of animals by improving 
motility and enhancing resistance to heat stress and UV-B radiation in C. 
elegans. Meanwhile, treatment with RE could regulate the expression of 
anti-aging related genes, including daf-2, age-1, akt-2, sir-2.1, daf-16, skn-1, 
jnk-1 and hsp-16.2, and promote the migration of DAF-16 into the nucleus. In 
addition, administration with RE abolished the extension of the lifespan of 
daf-2(e1370) mutants and RNAi (daf-16) C. elegans, and inhibited the expression 
of daf-16 downstream genes, including sod-3, ctl-2, dod17 and clk-1. In 
conclusion, RE could prolong the lifespan, improve the healthspan and enhance 
stress resistance in C. elegans by the insulin/IGF signaling pathway and DAF-16, 
providing a theoretical basis to fully exploit raspberry in the prevention of 
aging and healthcare.

DOI: 10.1039/c9fo02845e
PMID: 32285078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Geroscience. 2020 Jun;42(3):937-949. doi: 10.1007/s11357-020-00173-5. Epub
2020  Apr 13.

Long-term treatment with spermidine increases health span of middle-aged 
Sprague-Dawley male rats.

Filfan M(1), Olaru A(2), Udristoiu I(3), Margaritescu C(4), Petcu E(5), Hermann 
DM(6), Popa-Wagner A(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Doctoral School, University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Craiova, Romania.
(2)Department of Ophtalmology, University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Craiova, 
Romania.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Craiova, 
Romania.
(4)Department of Pathology, University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Craiova, 
Romania.
(5)Gold Coast Campus and Queensland Eye Institute, Griffith University Menzies 
Health Institute of Queensland, QLD, Brisbane, 4000, Australia.
(6)Chair of Vascular Neurology, Dementia and Ageing Research, Department of 
Neurology, University Hospital Essen, Germany, University of Duisburg-Essen, 
Duisburg, Germany.
(7)Department of Pathology, University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Craiova, 
Romania. aurel.popa@uk-essen.de.
(8)Gold Coast Campus and Queensland Eye Institute, Griffith University Menzies 
Health Institute of Queensland, QLD, Brisbane, 4000, Australia. 
aurel.popa@uk-essen.de.
(9)Chair of Vascular Neurology, Dementia and Ageing Research, Department of 
Neurology, University Hospital Essen, Germany, University of Duisburg-Essen, 
Duisburg, Germany. aurel.popa@uk-essen.de.

Let alone calorie restriction, life span extension in higher organisms has 
proven to be difficult to achieve using simple drugs. Previous studies have 
shown that the polyamine spermidine increased the maximum life span in C. 
elegans and the median life span in mice. However, younger subjects (< 40 years 
of age) are infrequently prescribed nor self-medicating with antiaging drugs. 
Therefore, in the present study, we aimed at assessing the effect of long-term 
treatment with spermidine given in the drinking water on behavioral performance 
and longevity of male, middle-aged Sprague-Dawley rats. We report that 
spermidine given in the drinking water did not extend neither the median nor the 
maximum life span of the middle-aged male Sprague-Dawley rats. However, 
spermidine treatment had a beneficial effect on the body weight and the kidney 
tubules, liver, and heart morphology. Behaviorally, spermidine led to a 
reduction in anxiety and an increase in curiosity, as assessed by exploratory 
behavior. Moreover, long-term treatment with spermidine enhanced autophagy in 
the brain and led to a diminished expression of the inflammatory markers, Tgfb, 
CD11b, Fcgr1, Stat1, CR3, and GFAP mRNAs in several cortical region and 
hippocampus of the treated rats suggesting that one beneficial effect of the 
long-term treatment with spermidine is an attenuated proinflammatory state in 
the aged brain. Our results suggest that long-term treatment with spermidine 
increases health span of middle-aged rats by attenuating neuroinflammation and 
improving anxiety and exploratory behavior.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-020-00173-5
PMCID: PMC7287009
PMID: 32285289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


876. Curr Psychiatry Rep. 2020 Apr 13;22(5):21. doi: 10.1007/s11920-020-01147-2.

Considerations and Current Trends in the Management of the Geriatric Patient on 
a Consultation-Liaison Service.

Glass OM(1), Hermida AP(2), Hershenberg R(3)(4), Schwartz AC(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Northeast Georgia Health System, Gainesville, GA, USA.
(2)Geriatric Psychiatry, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(4)Treatment Resistant Depression Program, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA. aschwa2@emory.edu.
(6)Psychiatry Consultation-Liaison Service, Grady Memorial Hospital, 80 Jesse 
Hill Jr. Dr., Atlanta, GA, USA. aschwa2@emory.edu.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To provide consultation-liaison psychiatrists with an updated 
resource that can assist in the treatment and management of geriatric patients.
RECENT FINDINGS: The current available literature has not shown any differences 
in efficacy between haloperidol and second-generation antipsychotics in patients 
with delirium. When considering relative advantages of forms of antipsychotic 
administration, there is no support for a superior safety profile of oral 
compared to intramuscular or intravenous administration. A recent meta-analysis 
of four randomized controlled trials concluded that when melatonin was 
administered to older age patients on medical wards, it significantly prevented 
the incidence of delirium when compared with the control group. While suvorexant 
administered nightly to elderly patients in acute care settings may lower the 
incidence of delirium, larger studies are needed to confirm this finding. 
Despite the black box warning of increased mortality risk in older patients with 
dementia, antipsychotics may be used with caution by the consultation-liaison 
(CL) psychiatrist to treat the neuropsychologic symptoms of dementia including 
hallucinations and psychosis in the hospital setting. While antidepressant 
studies have focused primarily on citalopram and escitalopram in the treatment 
of agitation in the setting of dementia, these two medications have not been 
adequately compared directly to other SSRIs for this condition. It is therefore 
not clear whether citalopram and escitalopram are more efficacious in treating 
agitation in the setting of dementia when compared to other SSRIs. While the 
evidence supporting trazodone's use is limited, it is generally well tolerated 
and is an option as a PRN for irritability and agitation in patients with 
Alzheimer's and mixed dementia. While there is some evidence to support the use 
of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors for treating cognitive impairments and 
hallucinations in Lewy body dementia, the usefulness of these agents in other 
forms of dementia is not well studied, and those studies did not show any 
benefit in the management of acute agitation. It is important to note that 
memantine can cause or exacerbate agitation and may be the cause of behavioral 
dysregulation. There is no evidence to support the routine use of 
benzodiazepines for behavioral improvement in patients with dementia. 
Escitalopram and citalopram do have a unique pharmacokinetic properties in the 
sense that they have been found to have 50-56% plasma protein binding, compared 
to sertraline, fluoxetine, and paroxetine (95% or more). Pooled analyses suggest 
that antidepressants are more effective than placebo in reducing the symptoms of 
post-stroke depression. SSRIs are considered first-line antidepressants in 
stroke patients, who are often elderly with underlying cardiovascular problems. 
Although treatment with SSRIs is recommended for post-stroke depression, there 
are no studies providing conclusive data on the superiority of a specific drug. 
Older age is associated with a better outcome from ECT, with remission rates of 
approximately 73% to 90% in patients over 65 years. ECT is the treatment of 
choice for patients with psychotic depression, and elderly patients with 
psychotic depression have been shown to have a higher remission rate and faster 
time to response than depressed patients without psychotic symptoms. With the 
average life expectancy increase, it is projected that 19 million people will 
reach the age of 85 or higher, an increase from 5.5 million in 2010. With an 
increasing older population, psychiatric consultation in the management of 
geriatric patients is becoming more necessary. Psychiatrists must be aware of 
the unique considerations in elderly patients. In this article, we provide 
evidence-based guidance to the CL psychiatrist on major issues relating to the 
older age patient, highlighting recent trends in treatment. First, we provide 
background on the evaluation of the medically hospitalized geriatric patient. As 
rates of medical and psychiatric illnesses increase with advancing age, elderly 
patients are more likely to be taking a higher number of medications as compared 
to younger patients, and physicians must pay special attention to polypharmacy, 
including side effects and drug interactions in this group. Next, we focus on 
the diagnosis, management, and unique needs of the geriatric patient presenting 
with common clinical syndromes of delirium, dementia, and depression. Delirium 
and dementia are among the most common causes of cognitive impairment in 
clinical settings yet are often either unrecognized or misdiagnosed as they may 
have similar signs and symptoms. In addition, depression is prevalent in older 
adults, especially in those with comorbid medical illness. Depression can be 
fatal as the rates of suicide are higher in later life than in any other age 
group. Consultation can improve the management of elderly patients and prevent 
unnecessary nursing home placement.

DOI: 10.1007/s11920-020-01147-2
PMID: 32285305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. J Med Econ. 2020 Aug;23(8):864-876. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2020.1754840. Epub
 2020 Apr 28.

Economic evaluations in migraine: systematic literature review and a novel 
approach.

Mahon R(1), Huels J(2), Hacking V(3), Cooney P(1), Danyliv A(1), Vudumula U(4), 
Vadapalle S(4), Vo P(2), Maniyar FH(5), Palmer S(6), Goadsby PJ(7).

Author information:
(1)Novartis Ireland Limited, Dublin, Ireland.
(2)Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland.
(3)Novartis Pharmaceuticals UK Ltd, Frimley, UK.
(4)Novartis Healthcare Private Limited, Hyderabad, India.
(5)Basildon and Thurrock University Hospitals and Queen Mary University, London, 
UK.
(6)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK.
(7)NIHR-Wellcome Trust King's Clinical Research Facility, SLaM Biomedical 
Research Centre, King's College London, London, UK.

Background: For novel migraine therapies, economic evaluations will be required 
to understand the trade-offs between additional health benefit and additional 
cost. The purpose of this study was to conduct a systematic literature review 
(SLR) to identify previous economic evaluations in migraine from the United 
Kingdom or Irish perspective to critically appraise these evaluations and to 
propose, if necessary, a novel modelling approach that can be used for future 
economic evaluations of migraine therapies.Methods: An SLR was conducted to 
identify previous economic evaluations of preventive migraine treatments. Key 
opinion leaders were consulted to determine the criteria for a robust migraine 
economic evaluation. Economic evaluations identified in the SLR were appraised 
against these criteria, and a novel cost-effectiveness model structure was then 
proposed.Results: Eight records reporting on published economic evaluations were 
identified and critically appraised for general quality. Expert consultation 
provided 6 recommendations on the ideal model structure for migraine that is 
both clinically and economically meaningful. A decision-tree plus Markov 
structure was then developed as a cost-effectiveness model for migraine 
therapies where each health state is associated with a patient distribution 
across monthly migraine day (MMD) frequencies.Conclusions: Future migraine 
economic evaluations should allow for assessments across the full spectrum of 
migraine, a response-based stopping rule, and the estimation of benefits and 
resource costs based on MMD frequency. The approach proposed in this paper 
captures all of the desired elements for an economic evaluation of migraine 
therapy and is suitable to assess new migraine therapies.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2020.1754840
PMID: 32285724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2020 Sep 25;58(10):1635-1644. doi:
10.1515/cclm-2020-0125.

The shift of the paradigm between ageing and diseases.

Salvatore F(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine and Medical Biotechnologies, University of 
Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy.
(2)CEINGE Biotecnologie Avanzate Scarl, Naples, Italy.
(3)Inter-University Center for Multifactorial and Multigenes Chronic Human 
Diseases, Federico II Naples, Tor Vergata Roma2, Chieti-Pescara Universities, 
Naples, Italy.

In the area of the Medical Sciences, the chronological age has always been, and 
still is, an indicator by which we try to understand the health status of an 
individual. However, besides considering people born with an already expressed 
disease, each human genome has sequence alterations called predisposing 
mutations; carriers of such genetic alterations have an increased risk of 
contracting diseases during their life. In addition, the exposome, i.e. the 
totality of environmental noxae ("hits") to which our body is exposed throughout 
life (through ingestion, breathing, body surface hits, and psychosociological 
stress agents, etc.) contributes to increase gradually but inexorably the 
frailty of an organism, and this process is usually referred to as 
"physiological ageing". This position paper proposes that we invert our visual 
angle and view the passage-of-time not as the cause of diseases, but consider 
the genome alterations present at birth and the noxae received during our life 
as the real major causes of ageing. The Biomedical Sciences are now increasingly 
unraveling the etiopathogenesis of most chronic degenerative diseases; thus, it 
will be possible to monitor and treat those that most contribute to the 
increased frailty of each person, which is now referred to with the misnomer 
"physiological ageing". These concepts are not banal; indeed, they imply that we 
must try to avoid the causes of alterations that result later in chronic 
degenerative diseases. Thus, we should shift our attention from the cure to the 
prevention of alterations/diseases also to improve both the length and quality 
of our life. Moreover, this approach involves real personalized or 
individualized medicine, thus conferring a more direct benefit to each of us by 
finalizing either the cure or the monitoring of diseases.

DOI: 10.1515/cclm-2020-0125
PMID: 32286241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. IEEE J Biomed Health Inform. 2021 Jan;25(1):100-107. doi: 
10.1109/JBHI.2020.2986210. Epub 2021 Jan 5.

Three-Dimensional Multiscale Fuzzy Entropy: Validation and Application to 
Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis.

Gaudencio ASF, Vaz PG, Hilal M, Cardoso JM, Mahe G, Lederlin M, Humeau-Heurtier 
A.

Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic, severe, and progressive lung 
disease with short life expectancy. Based on information theory and entropy 
measurement, a three-dimensional multiscale fuzzy entropy (MFE 3D) algorithm is 
proposed to identify IPF patients from their computed tomography (CT) volumetric 
data. First, the validation of the algorithm was performed by analyzing several 
volumetric synthetic noises (white, blue, brown, and pink), MIX(p) 
processes-based volumes, and texture-based volumes. The entropy values obtained 
by MFE 3D were consistent with the values obtained using the one, and 
two-dimensional versions, validating its use in biomedical data. Hence, MFE 3D 
was applied to CT scans to identify the existence of IPF within two different 
groups, one of healthy subjects (26) and another of IPF patients (26). 
Statistical differences were found (p < 0.05) between the entropy values of each 
group in 5 scale factors out of 10. These results demonstrate that MFE 3D could 
be an interesting metric to identify IPF in CT scans.

DOI: 10.1109/JBHI.2020.2986210
PMID: 32287027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Inter Econ. 2020;55(2):92-96. doi: 10.1007/s10272-020-0877-1. Epub 2020 Apr
1.

The Finnish Pension System and Its Future Challenges.

Valkonen T(1).

Author information:
(1)ETLA Economic Research, Arkadiankatu 23 B, 00100 Helsinki, Finland.

A specific feature in the Finnish pension system is rule-based preparation for 
mortality change. The earned pension capital is adjusted to life expectancy and 
the lowest age limit of the flexible retirement age will be adapted so that the 
ratio of expected years in employment and retirement is fixed after year 2030.

© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s10272-020-0877-1
PMCID: PMC7110267
PMID: 32287364


881. World Dev. 2006 Apr;34(4):613-630. doi: 10.1016/j.worlddev.2005.09.006. Epub
 2006 Feb 10.

The effect of population health on foreign direct investment inflows to low- and 
middle-income countries.

Alsan M(1), Bloom DE(1), Canning D(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.

This paper investigates the effect of population health on gross inflows of 
foreign direct investment (FDI). We conduct a panel data analysis of 74 
industrialized and developing countries over 1980-2000. Our main finding is that 
gross inflows of FDI are strongly and positively influenced by population health 
in low- and middle-income countries. Our estimates suggest that raising life 
expectancy by one year increases gross FDI inflows by 9%, after controlling for 
other relevant variables. These findings are consistent with the view that 
health is an integral component of human capital for developing countries.

Copyright © 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.worlddev.2005.09.006
PMCID: PMC7116922
PMID: 32287931


882. Eur J Haematol. 2020 Aug;105(2):203-215. doi: 10.1111/ejh.13427. Epub 2020
May  4.

Cost-effectiveness of Anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor T-Cell therapy in 
pediatric relapsed/refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. A societal 
view.

Thielen FW(1), van Dongen-Leunis A(1), Arons AMM(2), Ladestein JR(2), 
Hoogerbrugge PM(3), Uyl-de Groot CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus School of Health Policy & Management/Institute for Medical Technology 
Assessment, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Novartis Pharma B.V, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Princess Máxima Center for Pediatric Oncology, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: In several studies, the chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy 
tisagenlecleucel demonstrated encouraging rates of remission and lasting 
survival benefits in pediatric patients with relapsed/refractory (r/r) acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). We assessed the cost-effectiveness of 
tisagenlecleucel (list price: 320 000 EUR) among these patients when compared to 
clofarabine monotherapy (Clo-M), clofarabine combination therapy (Clo-C), and 
blinatumomab (Blina) from both a healthcare and a societal perspective. We also 
assessed future medical and future non-medical consumption costs.
METHODS: A three-state partitioned survival model was used to simulate a cohort 
of pediatric patients (12 years of age) through different disease states until 
the end of life (lifetime horizon). Relevant outcomes were life years, 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), healthcare costs, societal costs, and the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Uncertainty was explored through 
deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses as well as through several 
scenario analyzes.
RESULTS: Total discounted costs for tisagenlecleucel were 552 679 EUR from a 
societal perspective, which was much higher than the total discounted costs from 
a healthcare perspective (ie, 409 563 EUR). Total discounted societal costs for 
the comparator regimens ranged between 160 803 EUR for Clo-M and 267 259 EUR for 
Blina. Highest QALYs were estimated for tisagenlecleucel (11.26), followed by 
Blina (2.25), Clo-C (1.70) and Clo-M (0.74). Discounted societal ICERs of 
tisagenlecleucel ranged between 31 682 EUR/QALY for Blina and 37 531 EUR/QALY 
for Clo-C and were considered cost-effective with a willingness-to-pay (WTP) 
threshold of 80 000 EUR/QALY. None of the scenarios exceeded this threshold, and 
more than 98% of the iterations in the probabilistic sensitivity analysis were 
cost-effective.
DISCUSSION: At the current price and WTP threshold, tisagenlecleucel is 
cost-effective from both a healthcare and a societal perspective. Nevertheless, 
long-term effectiveness data are needed to validate the several assumptions that 
were necessary for this model.

© 2020 The Authors. European Journal of Haematology published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejh.13427
PMCID: PMC7497258
PMID: 32289184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Frederick W. Thielen: This project was funded 
with an unrestricted grant by Novartis Pharma BV Annemieke van Dongen‐Leunis: 
This project was funded with an unrestricted grant by Novartis Pharma BV 
Alexander MM Arons is employed by Novartis Pharma BV Judith Ladestein is 
employed by Novartis Pharma BV Peter Hoogerbrugge: None. Carin Uyl‐de Groot: 
This project was funded with an unrestricted grant by Novartis Pharma BV.


883. Cancer Cell. 2020 Apr 13;37(4):530-542. doi: 10.1016/j.ccell.2020.03.006.

Response and Resistance to BCR-ABL1-Targeted Therapies.

Braun TP(1), Eide CA(2), Druker BJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Medical Oncology, Knight Cancer Insitute, Oregon 
Health & Science University, Portland, OR, USA. Electronic address: 
braunt@ohsu.edu.
(2)Division of Hematology/Medical Oncology, Knight Cancer Insitute, Oregon 
Health & Science University, Portland, OR, USA.

Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), caused by constitutively active BCR-ABL1 fusion 
tyrosine kinase, has served as a paradigm for successful application of 
molecularly targeted cancer therapy. The development of the tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor (TKI) imatinib allows patients with CML to experience near-normal life 
expectancy. Specific point mutations that decrease drug binding affinity can 
produce TKI resistance, and second- and third-generation TKIs largely mitigate 
this problem. Some patients develop TKI resistance without known resistance 
mutations, with significant heterogeneity in the underlying mechanism, but this 
is relatively uncommon, with the majority of patients with chronic phase CML 
achieving long-term disease control. In contrast, responses to TKI treatment are 
short lived in advanced phases of the disease or in BCR-ABL1-positive acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia, with relapse driven by both BCR-ABL1 kinase-dependent 
and -independent mechanisms. Additionally, the frontline CML treatment with 
second-generation TKIs produces deeper molecular responses, driving disease 
burden below the detection limit for a greater number of patients. For patients 
with deep molecular responses, up to half have been able to discontinue therapy. 
Current efforts are focused on identifying therapeutic strategies to drive 
deeper molecular responses, enabling more patients to attempt TKI 
discontinuation.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ccell.2020.03.006
PMCID: PMC7722523
PMID: 32289275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests B.J.D. potential 
competing interests––SAB: Aileron Therapeutics, Therapy Architects (ALLCRON), 
Cepheid, Vivid Biosciences, Celgene, RUNX1 Research Program, EnLiven 
Therapeutics, Gilead Sciences (inactive), Monojul (inactive); SAB & Stock: 
Aptose Biosciences, Blueprint Medicines, Iterion Therapeutics, Third Coast 
Therapeutics, GRAIL (SAB inactive); Scientific Founder: MolecularMD (inactive, 
acquired by ICON); Board of Directors & Stock: Amgen; Board of Directors: 
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, CureOne; Joint Steering Committee: Beat AML LLS; 
Founder: VB Therapeutics; Clinical Trial Funding: Novartis, Bristol-Myers 
Squibb, Pfizer; Royalties from Patent 6958335 (Novartis exclusive license) and 
OHSU and Dana-Farber Cancer Institute (one Merck exclusive license). The 
remaining authors have no competing interests to declare.


884. Spine J. 2020 Sep;20(9):1464-1470. doi: 10.1016/j.spinee.2020.03.018. Epub
2020  Apr 12.

Cost-effectiveness of surgical treatment of adult spinal deformity: comparison 
of posterior-only versus anteroposterior approach.

Ogura Y(1), Gum JL(2), Hostin RA(3), Robinson C(4), Ames CP(5), Glassman SD(2), 
Burton DC(6), Bess RS(7), Shaffrey CI(8), Smith JS(9), Yeramaneni S(10), Lafage 
VF(11), Protopsaltis T(12), Passias PG(12), Schwab FJ(11), Carreon LY(2); 
International Spine Study Group (ISSG).

Author information:
(1)Norton Leatherman Spine Center, 210 East Gray Street, Suite 900, Louisville, 
KY 40204, USA. Electronic address: yojitotti1223@gmail.com.
(2)Norton Leatherman Spine Center, 210 East Gray Street, Suite 900, Louisville, 
KY 40204, USA.
(3)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Baylor Scoliosis Center, Dallas, TX 75093, 
USA.
(4)Center for Clinical Effectiveness, Baylor Scott & White Health, Dallas, TX 
75206, USA.
(5)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of California, San Francisco, 
San Francisco, CA, USA.
(6)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Kansas Medical Center, 
Kansas City, KS 66160, USA.
(7)Denver International Spine Clinic, Presbyterian St. Luke's Medical Center, 
Denver, CO 80218, USA.
(8)Department of Neurosurgery, Duke University School of Medicine, 40 Duke 
Medicine Circle Clinic 1B/1C, Durham, NC 27710, USA.
(9)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Virginia Health System, 
Charlottesville, VA 22903, USA.
(10)Center for Clinical Effectiveness, Baylor Scott & White Health, 8080 N. 
Central Expressway, Dallas, TX, 75206, USA.
(11)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, 
NY 10021, USA.
(12)Department of Orthopaedics, NYU Hospital for Joint Diseases, New York, New 
York.

BACKGROUND CONTEXT: Considerable debate exists regarding the optimal surgical 
approach for adult spinal deformity (ASD). It remains unclear which approach, 
posterior-only or combined anterior-posterior (AP), is more cost-effective. Our 
goal is to determine the 2-year cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) for 
each approach.
PURPOSE: To compare the 2-year cost-effectiveness of surgical treatment for ASD 
between the posterior-only approach and combined AP approach.
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective economic analysis of a prospective, multicenter 
database PATIENT SAMPLE: From a prospective, multicenter surgical database of 
ASD, patients undergoing five or more level fusions through a posterior-only or 
AP approach were identified and compared.
METHODS: QALYs gained were determined using baseline, 1-year, and 2-year 
postoperative Short Form 6D. Cost was calculated from actual, direct hospital 
costs including any subsequent readmission or revision. Cost-effectiveness was 
determined using cost/QALY gained.
RESULTS: The AP approach showed significantly higher index cost than the 
posterior-only approach ($84,329 vs. $64,281). This margin decreased at 2-year 
follow-up with total costs of $89,824 and $73,904, respectively. QALYs gained at 
2 years were similar with 0.21 and 0.17 in the posterior-only and the AP 
approaches, respectively. The cost/QALY at 2 years after surgery was 
significantly higher in the AP approach ($525,080) than in the posterior-only 
approach ($351,086).
CONCLUSIONS: We assessed 2-year cost-effectiveness for the surgical treatment 
through posterior-only and AP approaches. The posterior-only approach is less 
expensive both for the index surgery and at 2-year follow-up. The QALY gained at 
2-years was similar between the two approaches. Thus, posterior-only approach 
was more cost-effective than the AP approach under our study parameters. 
However, both approaches were not cost-effective at 2-year follow-up.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.spinee.2020.03.018
PMID: 32289489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Soc Sci Med. 2020 May;253:112963. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2020.112963. Epub
 2020 Apr 8.

Spatial patterns and social-economic influential factors of population aging: A 
global assessment from 1990 to 2010.

Wang S(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Geographic Sciences and Natural Resources Research, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100101, China. Electronic address: 
wangshaobin@igsnrr.ac.cn.

The world's population is aging rapidly. In this paper, three population aging 
indicators were collected to represent the elderly population, the oldest-old 
population, and centenarians. The spatial patterns of three population aging 
indicators and the influencing social-economic factors and their spatial 
spillover effects in the world from 1990 to 2010 were investigated. The 
empirical strategy was based on application of spatial autocorrelation methods 
and spatial error modeling. The results revealed the significant positive 
spatial autocorrelation as well as the obvious spatial disparities and clusters 
of the aging indicators in the world. Furthermore, spatial spillover effects of 
population aging indicators were detected with positive influence of several 
social-economic factors (e.g., per capita GNI, urbanization rate, and life 
expectancy) not only of population aging in a country itself, but in its 
neighboring counties. In sum, these findings indicated that population aging are 
a spatio-temporal process, and the spatial spillover effects from neighbors also 
vary among these indicators, which should be considered into the differentiated 
policies in response to the challenge of an aging society.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2020.112963
PMID: 32289647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interests The author 
declares no competing interests.


886. Psychother Psychosom. 2020;89(4):200-214. doi: 10.1159/000507638. Epub 2020
Apr  14.

A Rational Use of Clozapine Based on Adverse Drug Reactions, Pharmacokinetics, 
and Clinical Pharmacopsychology.

de Leon J(1)(2)(3), Ruan CJ(4)(5), Schoretsanitis G(6), De Las Cuevas C(7).

Author information:
(1)Mental Health Research Center at Eastern State Hospital, Lexington, Kentucky, 
USA, jdeleon@uky.edu.
(2)Psychiatry and Neurosciences Research Group (CTS-549), Institute of 
Neurosciences, University of Granada, Granada, Spain, jdeleon@uky.edu.
(3)Biomedical Research Centre in Mental Health Net (CIBERSAM), Santiago Apóstol 
Hospital, University of the Basque Country, Vitoria, Spain, jdeleon@uky.edu.
(4)The National Clinical Research Centre for Mental Disorders, Beijing Key 
Laboratory of Mental Disorders, and Laboratory of Clinical Psychopharmacology, 
Beijing Anding Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(5)Advanced Innovation Center for Human Brain Protection, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Zucker Hillside Hospital, Northwell Health, Glen 
Oaks, New York, USA.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine, Dermatology and Psychiatry, University of La 
Laguna, San Cristóbal de La Laguna, Spain.

Comment in
    Schizophr Res. 2022 Feb;240:184-185.

Using Richardson and Davidson's model and the sciences of pharmacokinetics and 
clinical pharmacopsychology, this article reviewed the: (1) poor life expectancy 
associated with treatment-resistant schizophrenia (TRS), which may be improved 
in patients who adhere to clozapine; (2) findings that clozapine is the best 
treatment for TRS (according to efficacy, effectiveness and well-being); and (3) 
potential for clozapine to cause vulnerabilities, including potentially lethal 
adverse drug reactions such as agranulocytosis, pneumonia, and myocarditis. 
Rational use requires: (1) modification of the clozapine package insert 
worldwide to include lower doses for Asians and to avoid the lethality 
associated with pneumonia, (2) the use of clozapine levels for personalizing 
dosing, and (3) the use of slow and personalized titration. This may make 
clozapine as safe as possible and contribute to increased life expectancy and 
well-being. In the absence of data on COVID-19 in clozapine patients, clozapine 
possibly impairs immunological mechanisms and may increase pneumonia risk in 
infected patients. Psychiatrists should call their clozapine patients and 
families and explain to them that if the patient develops fever or flu-like 
symptoms, the psychiatrist should be called and should consider halving the 
clozapine dose. If the patient is hospitalized with pneumonia, the treating 
physician needs to assess for symptoms of clozapine intoxication since halving 
the dose may not be enough for all patients; consider decreasing it to one-third 
or even stopping it. Once the signs of inflammation and fever have disappeared, 
the clozapine dose can be slowly increased to the prior dosage level.

© 2020 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000507638
PMCID: PMC7206357
PMID: 32289791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: This article received no support from any 
funding agency, commercial business, or not-for-profit institution. In the last 
3 years, the authors have had no commercial conflicts of interest.


887. Endoscopy. 2020 Jun;52(6):491-497. doi: 10.1055/a-1137-4721. Epub 2020 Apr
14.

Digestive findings that do not require endoscopic surveillance - Reducing the 
burden of care: European Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ESGE) Position 
Statement.

Rodríguez-de-Santiago E(1), Frazzoni L(2), Fuccio L(2), van Hooft JE(3), Ponchon 
T(4), Hassan C(5), Dinis-Ribeiro M(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Hospital Universitario Ramon y 
Cajal, University of Alcala, IRYCIS, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences DIMEC, University of Bologna, 
Italy.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Cancer Center Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam University Medical Centers, The Netherlands.
(4)Gastroenterology Division, Edouard Herriot Hospital, Lyon, France.
(5)Nuovo Regina Margherita Hospital, Rome, Italy.
(6)Center for Research in Health Technologies and Information Systems 
(CINTESIS), Faculty of Medicine, Porto, Portugal.
(7)Gastroenterology Department, Portuguese Oncology Institute of Porto, 
Portugal.

With the aim of reducing the overall burden of care, ESGE recommends against 
surveillance of a series of conditions. Namely: ESGE RECOMMENDS: against 
surveillance of individuals with the following: an inlet esophageal patch; Los 
Angeles (LA) grade A or B erosive esophagitis; or < 1 cm columnar-lined 
esophagus. ESGE RECOMMENDS: against surveillance of those with intestinal 
metaplasia limited to the antrum unless additional risk factors are present, 
such as persistent Helicobacter pylori infection, incomplete metaplasia, or a 
family history of gastric cancer; or for fundic gland polyps in the absence of 
suspicious endoscopic features or hereditary syndromes. ESGE RECOMMENDS: against 
surveillance of gastrointestinal leiomyomas, lipomas, and antral pancreatic 
rests, provided that these lesions have typical ultrasonographic features. ESGE 
RECOMMENDS: against routine endoscopic surveillance in duodenal peptic ulcer, 
unless symptoms persist despite adequate therapy. ESGE SUGGESTS: against 
surveillance of confirmed pancreatic serous cystic neoplasms. ESGE RECOMMENDS: 
against endoscopic surveillance for patients with hyperplastic polyps in the 
rectosigmoid, with 1 - 4 adenomas < 10 mm with low-grade dysplasia, or with a 
serrated polyp < 10 mm without dysplasia. ESGE RECOMMENDS: against surveillance 
of gastrointestinal conditions in individuals over 80 years old who have less 
than 10 years of life expectancy and poor general health status.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/a-1137-4721
PMID: 32289855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.E. van Hooft has received lecture fees from 
Medtronics (2014 – 2015, 2019) and Cook Medical (2019), and consultancy fees 
from Boston Scientific (2014 – 2017); her department has received research 
grants from Cook Medical (2014 – 2019) and Abbott (2014 – 2017). M. 
Dinis-Ribeiro, L. Frazzoni, L. Fuccio, C. Hassan, T. Ponchon, and E. R. de 
Santiago have no competing interests.


888. Panminerva Med. 2021 Jun;63(2):201-205. doi: 10.23736/S0031-0808.20.03893-8.
 Epub 2020 Apr 14.

Serum CD59: a novel biomarker of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis?

Cameli P(1), Bergantini L(2), D'Alessandro M, Vietri L(2), Cameli M, Sestini 
P(2), Bargagli E(2).

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Disease and Lung Transplant Unit, Department of Medical and 
Surgical Sciences and Neurosciences, University of Siena, Siena, Italy: 2 
Department of Cardiovascular Diseases, University of Siena, Siena, Italy - 
paolocameli88@gmail.com.
(2)Respiratory Disease and Lung Transplant Unit, Department of Medical and 
Surgical Sciences and Neurosciences, University of Siena, Siena, Italy: 2 
Department of Cardiovascular Diseases, University of Siena, Siena, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is the most common among 
idiopathic interstitial pneumonia. Life expectancy is estimated around 3-5 years 
at diagnosis. No reliable prognostic biomarker has been approved for routinary 
clinical practice of IPF. The aim of this study is to investigate the potential 
prognostic value of serum CD59 in a cohort of IPF patients.
METHODS: Fifty-seven patients (45 males, 66.1±10 years old) were recruited in 
Siena Regional Referral Center for Interstitial Lung Disease and underwent serum 
sampling for CD59 detection during diagnostic pathway. Clinical, functional, 
radiological and survival data were retrospectively collected. As control group 
for CD59 values, we recruited eight healthy volunteers (five males, 59.2±18 
years old).
RESULTS: CD59 levels were significantly higher in IPF patients in respect with 
healthy controls (P=0.0238). Patients with CD59 concentrations lower than 15 
ng/mL reported a significant reduction of survival time (P=0.009); current or 
former smokers with CD59 <15 ng/mL showed the worst prognosis (P=0.014).
CONCLUSIONS: CD59 levels were significantly increased in IPF patients, 
supporting the existence of epithelial damage in the pathogenesis of disease. 
Lower values of CD59 were associated with a significantly worse prognosis, 
suggesting a potential role of CD59 in the prognostic estimation of IPF 
patients.

DOI: 10.23736/S0031-0808.20.03893-8
PMID: 32290641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Cas Lek Cesk. 2020 Spring;159(1):4-12.

Preoperative assessment in older adults.

[Article in English]

Teplan V.

Advanced social care and higher level of medical intervention in elderly allow 
to prolong life expectancy in seniors, and therefore the number of elderly 
patients has risen rapidly in last decades. Management of elderly patients 
examination before surgery is routinely organized by general practitioners and 
internists with an aim to facilitate the surgery team work; to help 
anesthesiologists focus mainly on strategy of anesthesia (without any other 
special examination) and surgeons to realize/accomplish effective and save 
surgery, including elective surgery procedures. Key issue is to summarize the 
level of risk for surgery and compare it to prediction of follow-up with respect 
of mortality and morbidity as well as function status after surgery. Special 
attention should be focused on frailty seniors, all items together including 
quality of life and life expectancy should be carefully analyzed. Correctly 
prepared pre-operative report remarkable improves prognosis in high risk 
seniors.

PMID: 32290666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Cas Lek Cesk. 2020 Spring;159(1):13-16.

Perioperative care of elderly patients.

[Article in English]

Krpenská E, Jandová K, Gürlich R.

As life expectancy increases in economically developed countries, there is an 
increasing need for medical care for the elderly. In surgical fields, this means 
that the number and spectrum of surgical interventions in elderly patients is 
increasing. Because of this special attention should be paid to the preoperative 
evaluation in these patients. Communication with the patient and relatives is 
crucial in order to decide on the extent of the surgical intervention and 
whether to treat these patients with curative or palliative intent. It is 
imperative that physicians understand the physiology of aging and its associated 
risks, as traditional perioperative risk assessment tools are insufficient in 
this patient group.

PMID: 32290667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Clin Lung Cancer. 2020 Sep;21(5):e337-e348. doi: 10.1016/j.cllc.2020.01.005.
 Epub 2020 Mar 7.

DiM: Prognostic Score for Second- or Further-line Immunotherapy in Advanced 
Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: An External Validation.

Prelaj A(1), Lo Russo G(2), Proto C(2), Signorelli D(2), Ferrara R(2), Galli 
G(2), De Toma A(2), Randon G(2), Pagani F(2), Trevisan B(2), Ganzinelli M(2), 
Zilembo N(2), Montrone M(3), Longo V(3), Pesola F(3), Pizzutilo P(3), Del Bene 
G(3), Varesano N(3), Galetta D(3), Torri V(4), Garassino MC(2), Di Maio M(5), 
Catino A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale Tumori, 
Milan, Italy. Electronic address: arsela.prelaj@istitutotumori.mi.it.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale Tumori, 
Milan, Italy.
(3)Medical Thoracic Oncology Unit, IRCCS Oncologico Giovanni Paolo II of Bari, 
Bari, Italy.
(4)Pharmacological Research Institute, IRCSS Mario Negri, Milan, Italy.
(5)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Oncology, University of Turin, 
Mauriziano Hospital, Turin, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Other than the programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) value, 
oncologists have only the clinical characteristics of patients with advanced 
non-small-cell lung cancer (aNSCLC) to determine candidates for immunotherapy. A 
clinical prognostic score composed of the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
performance status, sex, histologic type, stage, platinum-based first-line 
therapy, and response to first-line therapy has categorized 3 prognostic groups 
for patients undergoing second-line chemotherapy. We sought to validate the same 
score for patients with aNSCLC treated with second- or further-line 
immunotherapy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We collected data from 2 Italian centers. A score was 
generated to divide patients into 3 prognostic groups: best, score < 5; 
intermediate, score 5 to 9; and worst, score > 9. Overall survival (OS) and 
progression-free survival (PFS) were the endpoints.
RESULTS: A total of 347 patients were included for analysis. Their median age 
was 66 years (range, 30-88 years), most were aged < 70 years (67.5%), 70.7% were 
men, 79.5% were smokers, and 74.6% had had adenocarcinoma. The Eastern 
Cooperative Oncology Group performance status was 0 for 23%, 1 for 54.5%, and 2 
for 22.5%. Of the 347 patients, 28% were in the best prognosis, 51% in the 
intermediate, and 21% in the worst prognosis group, respectively. The median OS 
was 18.0 months for the best, 8.5 months for the intermediate (hazard ratio [HR] 
vs. best, 1.83; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.35-2.47; P < .001) and 2.6 
months for worst (HR vs. best, 5.77; 95% CI, 3.99-8.33; P < .001) group. The 
median PFS was 3.4 months for the best, 3.7 months for the intermediate (HR vs. 
best, 1.35; 95% CI, 1.03-1.77; P = .032), and 1.9 months for the worst (HR vs. 
best, 2.51; 95% CI, 1.80-3.50; P < .001) group.
CONCLUSIONS: The prognostic score was able to predict the outcomes of patients 
with aNSCLC who had received immunotherapy. The worst category showed a dismal 
life expectancy and probably would not benefit from active systemic therapy. 
Thus, for these patients, best supportive care could be the best choice.

