117. Afr J Reprod Health. 2020 Mar;24(1):26-34. doi: 10.29063/ajrh2020/v24i1.4.

The State of Maternal and Infant Health and Mortality in Chad.

Obiang-Obounou BW(1), Fuh ME(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Keimyung University, Daegu, South 
Korea.
(2)Department of Public Policy and Administration, Yeungnam University, Daegu, 
Korea.

The level of Chad's government expenditure on health is a predictor of the 
general health of the population and, consequently, life expectancy. We used 
data from the World Bank's World Development Indicators and publications from 
the World Health Organization to assess the state of maternal and infant health 
and mortality. The primary objective of this research was to investigate whether 
Chad had reduced the risk of maternal and infant mortality after signing the 
Abuja Declaration in 2001. We hypothesised that increased general government 
health expenditure was associated with improved health mediated by increased 
numbers of skill health workers and minimum out-of-pocket health expenditure. 
Our secondary objective was to assess effective implementations of health 
policies in line with the Millennium Development Goals that Chad has agreed to 
achieve by 2015. We observed that, as of 2015, the government health expenditure 
was only 6.28% and the population out-of-pocket spending was over 56%. 
Furthermore, only 20% of women give birth in a hospital. These results led to 
three major policies recommendations in order to improve maternal and infant 
health in Chad: skilled birth attendants training, enhanced social status of 
nurses, and the development of a supplemental nutrition care program for women.

DOI: 10.29063/ajrh2020/v24i1.4
PMID: 32358935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Afr J Reprod Health. 2020 Mar;24(1):53-61. doi: 10.29063/ajrh2020/v24i1.6.

Investigating the Nexus between Gynaecologic Cancer and Human Development Index.

Pervaiz R(1), Faisal F(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, Faculty of Chemical and Life Sciences, Abdul Wali Khan 
University, Mardan Pakistan.
(2)Institute of Business studies and Leadership, Faculty of Business and 
Economics, Abdul Wali Khan University, Mardan Pakistan.

This study aimed to describe the current incidence and mortality rates of 
gynecologic cancer and their association with socio- economic development. The 
data for the age-standardized incidence rate (ASRI) and age-standardized 
mortality rate (ASRM) were acquired from the GLOBOCAN-2012 database. Human 
Development Index (HDI) data were obtained from the 2015- Human Development 
Report. The correlation between HDI and Mortality to Incidence Ratio (MIR) was 
assessed by Pearson- correlation. The effect of national-HDI on MIR was analyzed 
by linear regression analysis. The ASRI, ASRM, and MIR of cervix cancer were 
higher in the less developed regions (LDRs) than in more developed regions 
(MDRs). However, for corpus uteri cancer, the ASRI was 3.6 times and the ASRM 
was 1.5-times higher in the MDRs than in the LDRs. Strong inverse associations 
between MIR and HDI were reported from cervix (adjusted R2 = 0.825, β = - 0.908, 
p < 0.001), corpus uteri (adjusted R2 = 0.554, β = - 0.746, p < 0.001) and 
ovarian cancer (adjusted R2 = 0.579, β = - 0.763, p < 0.001). The higher MIR of 
gynecologic cancer in LDRs demand for sustainable investment in health systems 
and balanced cancer control plans in the region.

DOI: 10.29063/ajrh2020/v24i1.6
PMID: 32358937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. IUBMB Life. 2020 Jun;72(6):1160-1167. doi: 10.1002/iub.2299. Epub 2020 May
2.

Cardiotoxicity danger in immunotherapy.

Jagielska B(1), Ozdowska P(1), Gepner K(1), Kubala S(2), Siedlecki JA(3), 
Sarnowski TJ(2), Sarnowska E(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology and Internal Medicine, Maria Sklodowska-Curie National 
Research Institute of Oncology, Warsaw, Poland.
(2)Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, 
Poland.
(3)Department of Molecular and Translational Oncology, Maria Sklodowska-Curie 
National Research Institute of Oncology, Warsaw, Poland.

Immunotherapy based on immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) is currently broadly 
used in the treatment of different types of cancer. The treatment targeting 
programmed cell death protein 1/programmed death-ligand 1 axis is already 
approved by Food and Drug Administration for numerous cancers. These kinds of 
therapy brought spectacular results in the treatment of non-small cell lung 
cancer where systemic therapy was ineffective. However, a wide range of applied 
therapies based on ICIs in the clinic have led to unexpected side effects, such 
as severe cardiotoxicity. It needs to be underlined that the molecular mechanism 
of myocarditis in response to ICIs is still not fully understood. Lack of 
sufficient knowledge, especially concerning the kind of risk factors increasing 
probability of myocarditis, poses currently a large clinical problem. Continuous 
cardiac monitoring of patients who undergo ICI treatment presents another 
problem as it is cost-ineffective for the healthcare system. Herein, we 
highlight the risks of use of anticancer therapy based on ICIs. We also stress 
that detailed monitoring of any event of cardiotoxicity following ICIs treatment 
should be carefully investigated and registered to give a global overview of the 
frequency of myocarditis occurrence. Moreover, we propose that the extension of 
molecular and systemic knowledge of etiology of myocarditis as a side effect, 
including the role of protein kinases, will be highly beneficial for the medical 
field. Last but not least, better understanding of mechanisms of cardiotoxicity 
induction will improve the safety of cancer patients and will help clinicians in 
prediction of unexpected side effect occurrence.

© 2020 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/iub.2299
PMID: 32359132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2020 May 2;21(1):279. doi:
10.1186/s12891-020-03206-4.

Pre-operative hemoglobin level and use of sedative-hypnotics are independent 
risk factors for post-operative delirium following total knee arthroplasty.

Kijima E(1), Kayama T(2), Saito M(1), Kurosaka D(1), Ikeda R(1), Hayashi H(1), 
Kubota D(1), Hyakutake T(1), Marumo K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The Jikei University School of Medicine, 
3-25-8 Nishi-Shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 105-8461, Japan.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The Jikei University School of Medicine, 
3-25-8 Nishi-Shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 105-8461, Japan. 
tom_kayama@jikei.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: Delirium is a well-known complication following surgery, especially 
with the increasing age of patients undergoing surgery. The increasing demands 
resulting from a prolonged healthy life expectancy has resulted in more 
arthroplasties despite their age and existing comorbidities. The purpose of this 
study is to explore the various risk factors that may contribute to delirium in 
unilateral and bilateral total knee arthroplasties in the elderly population.
METHODS: 170 patients who underwent unilateral or bilateral total knee 
arthroplasties were analyzed retrospectively for delirium. Age, sex, 
comorbidities, use of sedative-hypnotics, peri-operative blood loss, pre- and 
post-operative laboratory blood test results were investigated and analyzed.
RESULTS: The incidence of post-operative delirium was 6.5% (11 out of 170 
patients) with a mean age of 79.5 (± 6.9) years, compared to 73.0 (± 9.0) years 
in the non-delirium group. Higher age, use of sedative-hypnotics, low 
pre-operative Hb and Ht, low post-operative Hb, Ht and BUN were observed in the 
delirium group. Multivariate logistic regression analysis identified that the 
use of sedative-hypnotics and pre-operative Hb level were independent risk 
factors for post-operative delirium after TKA. The odds ratios for the use of 
sedative-hypnotics and pre-operative Hb level were 4.6 and 0.53, respectively. 
Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis showed that pre-operative Hb of 
less than 11.1 g/dL was a predictor for the development of delirium, with a 
sensitivity of 54.6% and a specificity of 91.6%.
CONCLUSION: Patients with a pre-operative Hb level of < 11.1 g/dL or those using 
sedative-hypnotics are associated with post-operative delirium. Peri-operative 
management and preventative measures are therefore needed to reduce the risks of 
post-operative delirium in such patients.

DOI: 10.1186/s12891-020-03206-4
PMCID: PMC7196215
PMID: 32359366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.121. Lancet. 2020 May 2;395(10234):1413-1414. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30940-5.

Society and the slow burn of inequality.

Marmot M(1).

Author information:
(1)UCL Institute of Health Equity, UCL Department of Epidemiology and Public 
Health, London WC1E 7HB, UK. Electronic address: m.marmot@ucl.ac.uk.

Comment in
    Lancet Public Health. 2021 Apr;6(4):e192.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30940-5
PMCID: PMC7252106
PMID: 32359458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Pestic Biochem Physiol. 2020 May;165:104550. doi:
10.1016/j.pestbp.2020.02.016.  Epub 2020 Feb 28.

RNA interference of NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase increases susceptibilities 
to multiple acaricides in Tetranychus urticae.

Adesanya AW(1), Cardenas A(2), Lavine MD(3), Walsh DB(3), Lavine LC(2), Zhu 
F(4).

Author information:
(1)Irrigated Agriculture Research and Extension Center, Washington State 
University, Prosser, WA 99350, USA; Department of Entomology, Washington State 
University, Pullman, WA 99164, USA. Electronic address: 
adekunle.adesanya@wsu.edu.
(2)Department of Entomology, Washington State University, Pullman, WA 99164, 
USA.
(3)Irrigated Agriculture Research and Extension Center, Washington State 
University, Prosser, WA 99350, USA; Department of Entomology, Washington State 
University, Pullman, WA 99164, USA.
(4)Department of Entomology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA 
16802, USA. Electronic address: fuz59@psu.edu.

The two-spotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae, is a polyphagous pest feeding 
on over 1100 plant species, including numerous highly valued economic crops. The 
control of T. urticae largely depends on the use of acaricides, which leads to 
pervasive development of acaricide resistance. Cytochrome P450-mediated 
metabolic detoxification is one of the major mechanisms of acaricide resistance 
in T. urticae. NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase (CPR) plays as a crucial 
co-factor protein that donates electron(s) to microsomal cytochrome P450s to 
complete their catalytic cycle. This study seeks to understand the involvement 
of CPR/P450 in acaricide resistance in T. urticae. The full-length cDNA sequence 
of T. urticae's CPR (TuCPR) was cloned and characterized. TuCPR was ubiquitously 
transcribed in different life stages of T. urticae and the highest transcription 
was observed in the nymph and adult stages. TuCPR was constitutively 
over-expressed in six acaricide resistant populations compared to a susceptible 
one. TuCPR transcriptional expression was also induced by multiple acaricides in 
a time-dependent manner. Down-regulation of TuCPR via RNA interference (RNAi) in 
T. urticae led to reduced enzymatic activities of TuCPR and cytochrome P450s, as 
well as a reduction of resistance to multiple acaricides, abamectin, bifenthrin, 
and fenpyroximate. The outcome of this study highlights CPR as a potential novel 
target for eco-friendly control of T. urticae and other related plant-feeding 
pests.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pestbp.2020.02.016
PMID: 32359548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no competing interests.


123. Biomaterials. 2020 Aug;250:120072. doi: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2020.120072.
Epub  2020 Apr 22.

Calcium phosphate nanoneedle based gene delivery system for cancer genetic 
immunotherapy.

Zhao J(1), Chen G(2), Pang X(2), Zhang P(3), Hou X(2), Chen P(2), Xie YW(3), He 
CY(2), Wang Z(4), Chen ZY(5).

Author information:
(1)Scientific Research Center, The Seventh Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Shenzhen, 18107, PR China; Laboratory for Gene and Cell Engineering, 
Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Shenzhen, 518055, PR China.
(2)Laboratory for Gene and Cell Engineering, Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced 
Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, 518055, PR China; Syno 
Minicircle Biotechnology Co. Ltd., Shenzhen, 518055, PR China.
(3)Syno Minicircle Biotechnology Co. Ltd., Shenzhen, 518055, PR China.
(4)Scientific Research Center, The Seventh Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Shenzhen, 18107, PR China; School of Materials Science and 
Engineering, Center for Functional Biomaterials, Key Laboratory for Polymeric 
Composite and Functional Materials of Ministry of Education, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, 510275, China. Electronic address: 
wangzhiy3@mail.sysu.edu.cn.
(5)Laboratory for Gene and Cell Engineering, Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced 
Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, 518055, PR China; Syno 
Minicircle Biotechnology Co. Ltd., Shenzhen, 518055, PR China. Electronic 
address: chenzymc@163.com.

Ovarian cancer has become one of the most common gynecological cancers with a 
high mortality. However, conventional surgery together with combination 
chemotherapy is difficult to achieve ideal therapeutic effect. Although genetic 
immunotherapy is applied to active immune responses against cancer, the absence 
of efficient in vivo gene delivery technique is still an obstacle in clinical 
application. To overcome these problems, a minicircle DNA vector encoding 
humanized anti-EpCAM/CD3 bispecific antibody (BsAbEPH) has been constructed. 
Moreover, different shapes of calcium phosphate (CaPO) biomaterials were 
prepared. Specifically, the CaPO-nanoneedle-mediated "cell perforation" 
transfection technology achieves high levels of gene expression in peritoneal 
cavity. In an intraperitoneal xenograft model with human ovarian cancer cell 
line SKOV3, the CaPO-nanoneedle/minicircle DNA system expressed BsAbEPH resulted 
in significant retardation of cancer growth and extension of mouse life-span 
with limited toxicity. And this system can be made as off-the-shelf and 
easy-to-use products. Therefore, CaPO-nanoneedle based non-viral gene delivery 
technology will have great potential in clinical application.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2020.120072
PMID: 32361307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


124. Health Policy Plan. 2020 Jul 1;35(6):646-656. doi: 10.1093/heapol/czaa015.

Distributional impact of the Malawian Essential Health Package.

Arnold M(1)(2)(3), Nkhoma D(2), Griffin S(3).

Author information:
(1)Inav, Berlin, Germany.
(2)Health Economics and Policy Unit, College of Medicine, University of Malawi, 
Lilongwe, Malawi.
(3)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK.

Erratum in
    Health Policy Plan. 2020 Jul 1;35(6):752.

In low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), making the best use of scarce 
resources is essential to achieving universal health coverage. The design of 
health benefits packages creates the opportunity to select interventions on the 
basis of explicit objectives. Distributional cost-effectiveness analysis (DCEA) 
provides a framework to evaluate interventions based on two objectives: 
increasing population health and reducing health inequality. We conduct 
aggregate DCEA of potential health benefits package interventions to demonstrate 
the feasibility of this approach in LMICs, using the case of the Malawian health 
benefits package. We use publicly available survey and census data common to 
LMICs and describe what challenges we encountered and how we addressed them. We 
estimate that diseases targeted by the health benefits package are most 
prevalent in the poorest population quintile and least prevalent in the richest 
quintile. The survey data we use indicate socioeconomic patterns in intervention 
uptake that diminish the population health gain and inequality reduction from 
the package. We find that a similar set of interventions would be prioritized 
when impact on health inequality is incorporated alongside impact on overall 
population health. However, conclusions about the impact of individual 
interventions on health inequalities are sensitive to assumptions regarding the 
health opportunity cost, the utilization of interventions, the distribution of 
diseases across population groups and the level of aversion to inequality. Our 
results suggest that efforts to improve access to the Essential Health Package 
could be targeted to specific interventions to improve the health of the poorest 
fastest but that identifying these interventions is uncertain. This exploratory 
work has shown the potential for applying the DCEA framework to inform health 
benefits package design within the LMIC setting and to provide insight into the 
equity impact of a health benefits package.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press in association with 
The London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/czaa015
PMCID: PMC7294245
PMID: 32361730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Adv Gerontol. 2020;33(1):65-73.

[The role of comprehensive geriatric assessment in the treatment of cancer 
patients in elderly and senile age.].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Alekseeva YV(1), Semiglazova TY(1)(2), Kasparov BS(1), Tkachenko EV(1), 
Proschaev KI(3), Brish NA(1), Filatova LV(1)(2), Semiglazov VV(1)(4), Voronina 
EA(5), Kasymov RH(6), Belyaev AM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)N.N.Petrov National Medical Research Centre of Oncology, 68 Leningradskaya 
str., Pesochny, St. Petersburg 197758, Russian Federation, e-mail: 
dr.alekseevauv@gmail.com.
(2)I.I.Mechnikov North-West State Medical University, 47 Piskarevsky pr., St. 
Petersburg 195067, Russian Federation.
(3)Institute of Advanced Training of the Federal Medical and Biological Agency, 
91 Volokolamskoe shosse, Moscow 125371, Russian Federation.
(4)I.P.Pavlov First Saint-Petersburg State Medical University, 6-8 Lev Tolstoy 
str., St. Petersburg 197022, Russian Federation.
(5)Department of Labor and Social Protection of the Kemerovo region, 19 A 
Kuznetsky pr., Kemerovo 650991, Russian Federation.
(6)Research Medical Center «Gerontology», 116, build. 1 Volokolamskoe shosse, 
Moscow 125371, Russian Federation.

Modern approaches to the organization of diagnosis and treatment of elderly and 
senile patients with malignant tumors allow to maintain the necessary level of 
health, improve the quality of life and increase life expectancy. Assessment of 
geriatric status in Oncology allows: to predict complications during the complex 
treatment, including drug treatment; to modify treatment to reduce the risk 
factors of adverse outcomes; to select patients for specialized treatment using 
standard schemes. So, timely assessment of geriatric syndromes and their 
correction can expand the indications for specialized treatment of elderly and 
senile patients.

Publisher: Современные подходы к организации диагностики и лечения больных 
пожилого и старческого возраста со злокачественными новообразованиями позволяют 
улучшать качество жизни и увеличивать продолжительность жизни. Оценка 
гериатрического статуса в онкологии позволяет прогнозировать осложнения в 
процессе комплексного лечения, в том числе лекарственного, модифицировать 
терапию для уменьшения факторов риска неблагоприятных исходов, осуществлять 
отбор пациентов на специализированное лечение с использованием стандартных схем. 
Таким образом, своевременная оценка гериатрических синдромов и их коррекция 
способна расширить показания к специализированному лечению больных пожилого и 
старческого возраста.

PMID: 32362086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Bioimpacts. 2020;10(2):105-115. doi: 10.34172/bi.2020.13. Epub 2020 Mar 24.

Conditions for combining gene therapy with bone marrow transplantation in murine 
Krabbe disease.

Rafi MA(1), Luzi P(1), Wenger DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Sidney Kimmel College of Medicine, Thomas Jefferson 
University, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA.

Introduction: Krabbe disease (KD) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal disorder 
caused by mutations in the galactocerebrosidase (GALC) gene. This results in 
defective myelination in the peripheral and central nervous systems due to low 
GALC activity. Treatment at this time is limited to hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation (HSCT) in pre-symptomatic individuals. While this treatment 
extends the lives of treated individuals, most have difficulty walking by the 
end of the first decade due to peripheral neuropathy. Studies in the murine 
model of KD, twitcher (twi) combining bone marrow transplantation (BMT) with 
AAVrh10-mGALC showed a great extension of life from 40 days to about 400 days, 
with some living a full life time. Methods: In order to find the optimum 
conditions for dosing and timing of this combined treatment, twi mice were 
injected with five doses of AAVrh10-mGALC at different times after BMT. 
Survival, as well as GALC expression were monitored along with studies of 
sciatic nerve myelination and possible liver pathology. Results: Dosing had a 
pronounced effect on survival and measured GALC activity. There was window of 
time after BMT to inject the viral vector and see similar results, however 
delaying both the BMT and the viral injection shortened the lifespans of the 
treated mice. Lowering the viral dose too much decreased the correction of the 
sciatic nerve myelination. There was no evidence for hepatic neoplasia. 
Conclusion: These studies provide the conditions optimum for successfully 
treating the murine model of KD. There is some flexibility in dosing and timing 
to obtain a satisfactory outcome. These studies are critical to the planning of 
a human trial combining the "standard of care", HSCT, with a single iv injection 
of AAVrh10-GALC.

© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.34172/bi.2020.13
PMCID: PMC7186542
PMID: 32363154


127. Exp Physiol. 2020 Jul;105(7):1132-1150. doi: 10.1113/EP088629. Epub 2020 May
22.

Task-specific strength increases after lower-limb compound resistance training 
occurred in the absence of corticospinal changes in vastus lateralis.

Ansdell P(1), Brownstein CG(1)(2), Škarabot J(1)(3), Angius L(1), Kidgell D(4), 
Frazer A(4), Hicks KM(1), Durbaba R(1), Howatson G(1)(5), Goodall S(1), Thomas 
K(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, Northumbria University, Newcastle upon 
Tyne, UK.
(2)Laboratoire Interuniversitaire de Biologie de la Motricité, Université Jean 
Monnet Saint Etienne, Université Lyon, Lyon, France.
(3)School of Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences, Loughborough University, 
Loughborough, UK.
(4)Department of Physiotherapy, School of Primary and Allied Health Care, 
Faculty of Medicine, Nursing and Health Sciences, Monash University, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(5)Water Research Group, School of Biological Sciences, North West University, 
Potchefstroom, South Africa.

NEW FINDINGS: What is the central question of the study? Are corticospinal 
responses to acute and short-term squat resistance training task-specific? What 
is the main finding and its importance? A single bout of resistance training 
increased spinal excitability, but no changes in corticospinal responses were 
noted following 4 weeks of squat training despite task-specific increases in 
strength. The present data suggest that processes along the corticospinal 
pathway of the knee extensors play a limited role in the task-specific increase 
in strength following resistance training.
ABSTRACT: Neural adaptations subserving strength increases have been shown to be 
task-specific, but responses and adaptation to lower-limb compound exercises 
such as the squat are commonly assessed in a single-limb isometric task. This 
two-part study assessed neuromuscular responses to an acute bout (Study A) and 
4 weeks (Study B) of squat resistance training at 80% of one-repetition-maximum, 
with measures taken during a task-specific isometric squat (IS) and non-specific 
isometric knee extension (KE). Eighteen healthy volunteers (25 ± 5 years) were 
randomised into either a training (n = 10) or a control (n = 8) group. Neural 
responses were evoked at the intracortical, corticospinal and spinal levels, and 
muscle thickness was assessed using ultrasound. The results of Study A showed 
that the acute bout of squat resistance training decreased maximum voluntary 
contraction (MVC) for up to 45 min post-exercise (-23%, P < 0.001). From 
15-45 min post-exercise, spinally evoked responses were increased in both tasks 
(P = 0.008); however, no other evoked responses were affected (P ≥ 0.240). Study 
B demonstrated that following short-term resistance training, participants 
improved their one repetition maximum squat (+35%, P < 0.001), which was 
reflected by a task-specific increase in IS MVC (+49%, P = 0.001), but not KE 
(+1%, P = 0.882). However, no training-induced changes were observed in muscle 
thickness (P = 0.468) or any evoked responses (P = 0.141). Adjustments in spinal 
motoneuronal excitability are evident after acute resistance training. After a 
period of short-term training, there were no changes in the responses to central 
nervous system stimulation, which suggests that alterations in corticospinal 
properties of the vastus lateralis might not contribute to increases in 
strength.

© 2020 The Authors. Experimental Physiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd 
on behalf of The Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1113/EP088629
PMID: 32363636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Astrobiology. 2020 May;20(5):572-579. doi: 10.1089/ast.2019.2154.

Observational Constraints on the Great Filter.

Haqq-Misra J(1), Kopparapu RK(2), Schwieterman E(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Blue Marble Space Institute of Science, Seattle, Washington.
(2)NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland.
(3)University of California at Riverside, Riverside, California.

The search for spectroscopic biosignatures with the next generation of space 
telescopes could provide observational constraints on the abundance of 
exoplanets with signs of life. An extension of this spectroscopic 
characterization of exoplanets is the search for observational evidence of 
technology, known as technosignatures. Current mission concepts that would 
observe biosignatures from ultraviolet to near-infrared wavelengths could place 
upper limits on the fraction of planets in the Galaxy that host life, although 
such missions tend to have relatively limited capabilities of constraining the 
prevalence of technosignatures at mid-infrared wavelengths. Yet searching for 
technosignatures alongside biosignatures would provide important knowledge about 
the future of our civilization. If planets with technosignatures are abundant, 
then we can increase our confidence that the hardest step in planetary 
evolution-the Great Filter-is probably in our past. But if we find that life is 
commonplace while technosignatures are absent, then this would increase the 
likelihood that the Great Filter awaits to challenge us in the future.

DOI: 10.1089/ast.2019.2154
PMID: 32364797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. J Therm Biol. 2020 Apr;89:102541. doi: 10.1016/j.jtherbio.2020.102541. Epub
2020  Feb 18.

Heat stress during development affects immunocompetence in workers, queens and 
drones of Africanized honey bees (Apis mellifera L.) (Hymenoptera: Apidae).

Medina RG(1), Paxton RJ(2), Hernández-Sotomayor SMT(3), Pech-Jiménez C(3), 
Medina-Medina LA(4), Quezada-Euán JJG(4).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Apicultura, Campus de Ciencias Biológicas y Agropecuarias, 
Universidad Autónoma de Yucatán, Mérida, Yucatán, Mexico; Instituto Nacional de 
Investigaciones Forestales, Agrícolas y Pecuarias (INIFAP), Campo Experimental 
Edzna, Campeche, Mexico. Electronic address: medina.ruben@inifap.gob.mx.
(2)Institute for Biology, Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, Halle 
(Saale), Germany.
(3)Unidad de Bioquímica y Biología Molecular de Plantas, Centro de Investigación 
Científica de Yucatán (CICY) Mérida, Yucatán, Mexico.
(4)Departamento de Apicultura, Campus de Ciencias Biológicas y Agropecuarias, 
Universidad Autónoma de Yucatán, Mérida, Yucatán, Mexico.

Though social insects generally seem to have a reduced individual immunoresponse 
compared to solitary species, the impact of heat stress on that response has not 
been studied. In the honey bee, the effect of heat stress on reproductives 
(queens and males/drones) may also vary compared to workers, but this is 
currently unknown. Here, we quantified the activity of an enzyme linked to the 
immune response in insects and known to be affected by heat stress in solitary 
species: phenoloxidase (PO), in workers, queens and drones of Africanized honey 
bees (AHBs) experimentally subjected to elevated temperatures during the pupal 
stage. Additionally, we evaluated this marker in individuals experimentally 
infected with the entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae. Differences in 
PO activity were found between sexes and castes, with PO activity generally 
higher in workers and lower in reproductives. Such differences are associated 
with the likelihood of exposure to infection and the role of different 
individuals in the colony. Contrary to our expectation, heat stress did not 
cause an increase in PO activity equally in all classes of individual. Heat 
stress during the pupal stage significantly decreased the PO activity of AHB 
queens, but not that of workers or drones, which more frequently engage in 
extranidal activity. Experimental infection with Metarhizium anisopliae reduced 
PO activity in queens and workers, but increased it in drones. Notably, heat 
stressed workers lived significantly shorter after infection despite exhibiting 
greater PO activity than queens or drones. We suggest that this discrepancy may 
be related to trade-offs among immune response cascades in honey bees such as 
between heat shock proteins and defensin peptides used in microbial defence. Our 
results provide evidence for complex relationships among humoral immune 
responses in AHBs and suggest that heat stress could result in a reduced life 
expectancy of individuals.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtherbio.2020.102541
PMID: 32364969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations of competing interest None.


130. J Pharm Pharm Sci. 2020;23(1):109-131. doi: 10.18433/jpps30961.

Association Between Polymorphisms in Cytokine Gene and Viral Infections in Renal 
and Liver Transplant Recipients: A Systematic Review.

Sakharkar P(1), Deb S(2), Mashayekhi N(1).

Author information:
(1)Roosevelt University College of Pharmacy, Schaumburg, IL, USA.
(2)Larkin University College of Pharmacy, Miami, FL, USA.

PURPOSE: Although transplantations are associated with an increased risk of 
post-transplantation infections, they greatly improve life expectancy and 
patients' quality of life. Cytokine genes play an important role in the success 
of transplants due to their immunological functions. A systematic review was 
conducted to evaluate cytokine gene polymorphisms and risk of cytomegalovirus 
(CMV), hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) infections in kidney 
and liver transplant recipients.
METHODS: A systematic search was conducted using PubMed, EMBASE, Medline and 
Google Scholar from their inception until January 28, 2019 using appropriate key 
words. Review articles, case reports or series, studies conducted on non-human 
subjects and published in languages other than English were excluded. Data were 
abstracted using a standardized form. The quality of the studies included was 
assessed using "Risk of Bias Assessment tool for Non-randomized Studies 
(RoBANS)".
RESULTS: Thirty-one studies met our inclusion criteria; populations studied were 
diverse with a sample ranging from 20 to 1,671. Nineteen studies evaluated 
Interleukin (IL)-28B polymorphism, while six studies evaluated interferon lambda 
(IFN-λ) gene polymorphisms and their impact on CMV, HCV, and HBV progression. 
Polymorphisms in IL-10 gene were investigated in six studies. Polymorphisms in 
IL-12B and IL-1B gene were associated with a higher risk of developing CMV 
infections while polymorphisms in IL-28B were associated with a lower incidence 
of CMV infection in renal transplant recipients. Similarly, polymorphisms in 
IL-28B were associated with higher liver dysfunction from HBV infection in liver 
transplant recipients. Studies included had low risk of bias.
CONCLUSIONS: Cytokine gene polymorphisms IL-12B and IL-1B were found to be 
associated with an increased risk of infection in kidney transplants and IL-28B 
in liver transplant recipients. However, the small number and heterogeneity of 
studies limits the generalization of our results. Further research may lead to 
finding these associations in larger studies which perhaps improve the use of 
genetic testing and targeted antiviral therapy. This will further reduce the 
risk of viral infections associated with cytokine gene polymorphisms in post 
renal and liver transplant recipients.

DOI: 10.18433/jpps30961
PMID: 32365304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Apr 29;21(9):3133. doi: 10.3390/ijms21093133.

What Role Does CFTR Play in Development, Differentiation, Regeneration and 
Cancer?

Amaral MD(1), Quaresma MC(1), Pankonien I(1).

Author information:
(1)BioISI-Biosystems and Integrative Sciences Institute, Faculty of Sciences, 
University of Lisboa, 1749-016 Lisboa, Portugal.

One of the key features associated with the substantial increase in life 
expectancy for individuals with CF is an elevated predisposition to cancer, 
firmly established by recent studies involving large cohorts. With the recent 
advances in cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) modulator 
therapies and the increased long-term survival rate of individuals with cystic 
fibrosis (CF), this is a novel challenge emerging at the forefront of this 
disease. However, the mechanisms linking dysfunctional CFTR to carcinogenesis 
have yet to be unravelled. Clues to this challenging open question emerge from 
key findings in an increasing number of studies showing that CFTR plays a role 
in fundamental cellular processes such as foetal development, epithelial 
differentiation/polarization, and regeneration, as well as in 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Here, we provide state-of-the-art 
descriptions on the moonlight roles of CFTR in these processes, highlighting how 
they can contribute to novel therapeutic strategies. However, such roles are 
still largely unknown, so we need rapid progress in the elucidation of the 
underlying mechanisms to find the answers and thus tailor the most appropriate 
therapeutic approaches.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21093133
PMCID: PMC7246864
PMID: 32365523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


132. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2020 Apr 29;17(9):3098. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph17093098.

Preschoolers Build Fundamental Motor Skills Critical to an Active Lifestyle: The 
All 4 Kids(©) Intervention Study.

Lindsay AR(1), Starrett A(2), Brian A(3), Byington TA(1), Lucas J(4), 
Sigman-Grant M(1).

Author information:
(1)Extension, College of Agriculture, Biotechnology & Natural Resources (CABNR), 
University of Nevada, Reno, NV 89123, USA.
(2)Department of Educational Studies, College of Education, University of South 
Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208, USA.
(3)Department of Physical Education, College of Education, University of South 
Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208, USA.
(4)Department of Family Medicine, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, 
OR 97239, USA.

This pragmatic, real world study examined the effects of the All 4 Kids© 
intervention on preschoolers' mastery of movement skills and determined whether 
the instruction had greater impact than natural development. Methods included a 
quasi-experimental intervention-comparison subsample of 379 children 
(COMPARISON) and a pretest-posttest design with convenience scale-up sampling of 
2817 preschoolers (SCALE-UP). Children receiving education and dance instruction 
3 times/week for 8 weeks were assessed using the Preschool Movement Assessment 
to evaluate skills pre and post intervention. Using repeated measures ANOVA, 
McNemar and Wilcoxon signed ranks tests, preschooler's participation in the 
intervention resulted in greater improvement in 12 movement skills (F = 83.451, 
df = 1, p < 0.001, η p 2 = 0.555), balance (p = 0.028), hopping (t = -3.545, df 
= 112, p = 0.001) and crossing the midline (p < 0.001) than natural development 
(COMPARISON). In the SCALE-UP study, children significantly improved in all 
measures based on post-intervention scores. Significant differences were 
observed between Hispanic and non-Hispanic children for the 12-skills (b = 
-0.758, se = 0.161, p < 0.001) using hierarchical linear models; boys' and 
girls' scores were not differentially impacted by the intervention. Therefore, 
implementation of interventions focused on fundamental movement skill 
development have the potential to remediate secular motor skill decline in young 
children.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph17093098
PMCID: PMC7246659
PMID: 32365601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


133. Molecules. 2020 Apr 30;25(9):2091. doi: 10.3390/molecules25092091.

Ulva intestinalis Protein Extracts Promote In Vitro Collagen and Hyaluronic Acid 
Production by Human Dermal Fibroblasts.

Bodin J(1)(2), Adrien A(2), Bodet PE(1), Dufour D(2), Baudouin S(2), Maugard 
T(1), Bridiau N(1).

Author information:
(1)Equipe BCBS (Biotechnologies et Chimie des Bioressources pour la Santé), La 
Rochelle Université, UMR CNRS 7266 LIENSs, Avenue Michel Crépeau, 17042 La 
Rochelle, France.
(2)SEPROSYS, Séparations, Procédés, Systèmes, 12 Rue Marie-Aline Dusseau, 17000 
La Rochelle, France.

With the increase in life expectancy, reducing the visible signs of skin aging 
has become a major issue. A reduction in collagen and hyaluronic acid synthesis 
by fibroblasts is a feature of skin aging. The green seaweed, Ulva intestinalis, 
is an abundant and rich source of nutrients, especially proteins and peptides. 
The aim of this study was to assess the potential cosmetic properties of a 
protein fraction from Ulva intestinalis (PROT-1) containing 51% of proteins and 
22% of polysaccharides, and its enzymatic peptide hydrolysates on human dermal 
fibroblasts. PROT-1 was extracted using a patented acid- and solvent-free 
process (FR2998894 (B1)). The biochemical characterization and chromatographic 
analysis showed a main set of proteins (25 kDa). To demonstrate the anti-aging 
potential of PROT-1, fibroblast proliferation and collagen and hyaluronic acid 
production were assessed on fibroblast cell lines from donors aged 20 years 
(CCD-1059Sk) and 46 years (CCD-1090Sk). PROT-1 induced a significant increase in 
collagen and hyaluronic acid production per cell, and a reduction in cell 
proliferation without increasing cell mortality. These effects were reversed 
after protein hydrolysis of PROT-1, showing the central role of proteins in this 
promising anti-aging property.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25092091
PMCID: PMC7249168
PMID: 32365755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


134. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2020 Apr 30;17(9):3126. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph17093126.

Chronic Health Conditions in Aging Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities.

García-Domínguez L(1), Navas P(1), Verdugo MÁ(1), Arias VB(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Community Inclusion, University of Salamanca, 37005 Salamanca, 
Spain.

Life expectancy of people with intellectual disability (ID) has increased in 
recent decades. However, there is little evidence of whether these extra years 
of life are spent in good health. The aim of this study, conducted in Spain, is 
to obtain information about the prevalence of chronic health conditions in 
people with ID over the age of 44 and compare it with that of their peers 
without disability. Twenty health conditions were analyzed in 1040 people with 
ID and 12,172 people without ID through a study of their prevalence. The 
findings show that chronic constipation, urinary incontinence, thyroid disorders 
and obesity are the most prevalent chronic diseases among individuals with ID. 
In addition, this population group suffers these health conditions more 
frequently than older adults without ID. Detection and early intervention in 
these health conditions will improve adequate access to social health services 
and subsequent treatment of aging adults with ID.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph17093126
PMCID: PMC7246565
PMID: 32365862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


135. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Apr 30;21(9):3182. doi: 10.3390/ijms21093182.

Functional Mechanisms of Mitochondrial Respiratory Chain Supercomplex Assembly 
Factors and Their Involvement in Muscle Quality.

Azuma K(1), Ikeda K(2), Inoue S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Systems Aging Science and Medicine, Tokyo Metropolitan 
Institute of Gerontology, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo 173-0015, Japan.
(2)Division of Gene Regulation and Signal Transduction, Research Center for 
Genomic Medicine, Saitama Medical University, Hidaka, Saitama 350-1241, Japan.

Impairment of skeletal muscle function causes disabilities in elderly people. 
Therefore, in an aged society, prevention and treatment of sarcopenia are 
important for expanding healthy life expectancy. In addition to aging, adipose 
tissue disfunction and inflammation also contribute to the pathogenesis of 
sarcopenia by causing the combined state called 'sarcopenic obesity'. Muscle 
quality as well as muscle mass contributes to muscle strength and physical 
performance. Mitochondria in the skeletal muscles affect muscle quality by 
regulating the production of energy and reactive oxygen species. A certain 
portion of the mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes form a higher-order 
structure called a "supercomplex", which plays important roles in efficient 
energy production, stabilization of respiratory chain complex I, and prevention 
of reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation. Several molecules including 
phospholipids, proteins, and certain chemicals are known to promote or stabilize 
mitochondrial respiratory chain supercomplex assembly directly or indirectly. In 
this article, we review the distinct mechanisms underlying the promotion or 
stabilization of mitochondrial respiratory chain supercomplex assembly by 
supercomplex assembly factors. Further, we introduce regulatory pathways of 
mitochondrial respiratory chain supercomplex assembly and discuss the roles of 
supercomplex assembly factors and regulatory pathways in skeletal muscles and 
adipose tissues, believing that this will lead to discovery of potential targets 
for prevention and treatment of muscle disorders such as sarcopenia.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21093182
PMCID: PMC7246575
PMID: 32365950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


136. Trials. 2020 May 4;21(1):373. doi: 10.1186/s13063-020-04256-8.

The HOME Study: Statistical and economic analysis plan for a randomised 
controlled trial comparing the addition of Proactive Psychological Medicine to 
usual care, with usual care alone, on the  time spent in hospital by older acute 
hospital inpatients.

Magill N(1), White IR(2), Walker J(3), Burke K(3), Toynbee M(3), van Niekerk 
M(3), Yang F(4), Walker S(4), Sculpher M(4), Sharpe M(3), Frost C(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Statistics, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London, UK. nicholas.magill@lshtm.ac.uk.
(2)London Hub for Trials Methodology Research, MRC Clinical Trials Unit at UCL, 
London, UK.
(3)Psychological Medicine Research, Department of Psychiatry, University of 
Oxford, Warneford Hospital, Oxford, UK.
(4)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington, York, UK.
(5)Department of Medical Statistics, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Prolonged acute hospital stays are a problem for older people and 
for health services. Failure to effectively manage the psychological and social 
aspects of illness is an important cause of prolonged hospital stay. Proactive 
Psychological Medicine (PPM) is a new way of providing psychiatry services to 
medical wards which is proactive, focussed, intensive and integrated with 
medical care. The primary aim of PPM is to reduce the time older people spend in 
hospital because of unmanaged psychological and social problems. The HOME Study 
will test the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of PPM.
METHODS/DESIGN: The study is a two-arm, parallel-group, randomised, controlled 
superiority trial with linked health economic analysis and an embedded process 
evaluation. The target population is people aged 65 years and older admitted to 
acute hospitals. Participants will be randomly allocated to either usual care 
plus PPM or usual care alone. The primary outcome is the number of days spent as 
an inpatient in a general hospital in the month following randomisation. 
Secondary outcomes include quality of life, cognitive function, independent 
functioning, symptoms of anxiety and depression, and experience of hospital 
stay. The cost-effectiveness of usual care plus PPM compared with usual care 
alone will be assessed using quality-adjusted life-years as an outcome as well 
as costs from the NHS perspective.
DISCUSSION: This update to the published trial protocol gives a detailed plan of 
the statistical and economic analysis of The HOME Study.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN registry, ISRCTN86120296. Registered on 3 January 
2018.

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-020-04256-8
PMCID: PMC7197124
PMID: 32366328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


137. Anticancer Res. 2020 May;40(5):2457-2465. doi: 10.21873/anticanres.14215.

ABL1-Directed Inhibitors for CML: Efficacy, Resistance and Future Perspectives.

Massimino M(1)(2), Stella S(3)(2), Tirrò E(3)(2), Pennisi MS(3)(2), Vitale 
SR(3)(2), Puma A(3)(2), Romano C(3)(2), DI Gregorio S(3)(2), Tomarchio C(3)(2), 
DI Raimondo F(4), Manzella L(3)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Catania, 
Catania, Italy michedot@yahoo.it.
(2)Center of Experimental Oncology and Hematology, A.O.U. Policlinico Vittorio 
Emanuele, Catania, Italy.
(3)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Catania, 
Catania, Italy.
(4)Division of Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplant, A.O.U. Policlinico 
Vittorio Emanuele, Catania, Italy.

The introduction of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) directed against the 
catalytic activity of the ABL tyrosine kinase has considerably improved the 
outcome of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients in the chronic phase of the 
disease. Indeed, these individuals currently show a life-expectancy comparable 
to those of healthy subjects. Currently, five TKIs (imatinib, dasatinib, 
nilotinib, bosutinib and ponatinib) are approved for the treatment of CML and 
can be used as first, second or further lines of treatment according to disease 
risk scores, patient comorbidities and the presence of known TKI resistance 
mechanisms. In fact, 15-20% of all CML patients fail to achieve optimal 
responses according to the current definitions of the European Leukemia Network 
and will require sequential TKI treatment to avoid disease progression. In this 
review, we present the state of art in several crucial areas of CML management 
by briefly: i) depicting the domain structure of the BCR-ABL1 oncoprotein; ii) 
describing pivotal data concerning TKI efficacy; iii) illustrating the diverse 
molecular mechanisms causing TKI resistance; and iv) summarizing new 
ABL1-directed therapeutic approaches that are presently under investigation.

Copyright© 2020, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. 
Delinasios), All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21873/anticanres.14215
PMID: 32366389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. J Exp Biol. 2020 May 4;223(Pt 9):jeb215194. doi: 10.1242/jeb.215194.

Insect wing damage: causes, consequences and compensatory mechanisms.

Rajabi H(1), Dirks JH(2), Gorb SN(3).

Author information:
(1)Functional Morphology and Biomechanics, Institute of Zoology, Kiel 
University, Am Botanischen Garten 1-9, D-24098 Kiel, Germany 
harajabi@hotmail.com.
(2)Biomimetics-Innovation-Centre, Hochschule Bremen-City University of Applied 
Sciences, 28199 Bremen, Germany.
(3)Functional Morphology and Biomechanics, Institute of Zoology, Kiel 
University, Am Botanischen Garten 1-9, D-24098 Kiel, Germany.

The evolution of wings has played a key role in the success of insect species, 
allowing them to diversify to fill many niches. Insect wings are complex 
multifunctional structures, which not only have to withstand aerodynamic forces 
but also need to resist excessive stresses caused by accidental collisions. This 
Commentary provides a summary of the literature on damage-reducing morphological 
adaptations in wings, covering natural causes of wing collisions, their impact 
on the structural integrity of wings and associated consequences for both insect 
flight performance and life expectancy. Data from the literature and our own 
observations suggest that insects have evolved strategies that (i) reduce the 
likelihood of wing damage and (ii) allow them to cope with damage when it 
occurs: damage-related fractures are minimized because wings evolved to be 
damage tolerant and, in the case of wing damage, insects compensate for the 
reduced aerodynamic efficiency with dedicated changes in flight kinematics.

© 2020. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.215194
PMID: 32366698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare no 
competing or financial interests.


139. Leukemia. 2020 Jun;34(6):1495-1502. doi: 10.1038/s41375-020-0842-9. Epub
2020  May 4.

Expert opinion-management of chronic myeloid leukemia after resistance to 
second-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitors.

Hochhaus A(1), Breccia M(2), Saglio G(3), García-Gutiérrez V(4), Réa D(5), 
Janssen J(6), Apperley J(7).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Innere Medizin II, Universitätsklinikum Jena, Jena, Germany. 
andreas.hochhaus@med.uni-jena.de.
(2)Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy.
(3)University of Turin, Turin, Italy.
(4)Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal (IRYCIS), Madrid, Spain.
(5)Hôpital St. Louis, Paris, France.
(6)Department of Hematology, Cancer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam University 
Medical Centers, loc. VUMC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)Hammersmith Hospital, Imperial College London, London, UK.

Regardless of line of therapy, treatment goals in chronic phase chronic myeloid 
leukemia (CML) are: avoid progression to accelerated phase or blast crisis CML 
such that patients achieve a life expectancy comparable with that of the general 
population; avoid adverse events (AEs); and restore and maintain quality of 
life. The most important prognostic factor for achieving these goals is response 
to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) at key milestones. For patients failing a 
TKI, a treatment change is mandatory to limit the risk of progression and death. 
There is currently no precise guideline for patients that fail a 
second-generation TKI, and there is a paucity of data to guide clinical decision 
making in this setting. There is, therefore, an unmet need for practical and 
actionable guidance on how to manage patients who fail a second-generation TKI. 
Although the term 'failure' includes patients failing for resistance or 
intolerance, the focus of this paper is failure of a second-generation TKI 
because of resistance. CML patients who fail their first second-generation TKI 
for true resistance need a more potent therapy. In these patients, the key 
issues to consider are the relative appropriateness of early allogeneic 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation or the use of a further TKI. Selection 
of the next line of treatment after second-generation TKI resistance should be 
individualized and must be based on patient-specific factors including 
cytogenetics, mutation profile, comorbidities, age, previous history of AEs with 
prior TKI therapy, and risk profile for AEs on specific TKIs. This expert 
opinion paper is not in conflict with existing recommendations, but instead 
represents an evolution of previous notions, based on new data, insights, and 
clinical experience. We review the treatment options for patients resistant to 
