DOI: 10.1186/s13023-020-01373-0
PMCID: PMC7164176
PMID: 32299476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare.


911. SSM Popul Health. 2020 Mar 31;11:100577. doi: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2020.100577. 
eCollection 2020 Aug.

Cognitive impairment in the U.S.: Lifetime risk, age at onset, and years 
impaired.

Hale JM(1)(2), Schneider DC(2), Mehta NK(3), Myrskylä M(2)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)University of St Andrews, Scotland, United Kingdom.
(2)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany.
(3)University of Michigan, MI, USA.
(4)London School of Economics and Political Science, UK.
(5)University of Helsinki, Finland.

Erratum in
    SSM Popul Health. 2020 Dec 10;12:100715.

Prior studies have analyzed the burden of cognitive impairment, but often use 
potentially biased prevalence-based methods or measure only years lived with 
impairment, without estimating other relevant metrics. We use the Health and 
Retirement Study (1998-2014; n = 29,304) and the preferred incidence-based 
Markov-chain models to assess three key measures of the burden of cognitive 
impairment: lifetime risk, mean age at onset, and number of years lived 
impaired. We analyze both mild and severe cognitive impairment (dementia) and 
gender, racial/ethnic, and educational variation in impairment. Our results 
paint a multi-dimensional picture of cognitive health, presenting the first 
comprehensive analysis of the burden of cognitive impairment for the U.S. 
population age 50 and older. Approximately two out of three Americans experience 
some level of cognitive impairment at an average age of approximately 70 years. 
For dementia, lifetime risk for women (men) is 37% (24%) and mean age at onset 
83 (79) years. Women can expect to live 4.2 years with mild impairment and 3.2 
with dementia, men 3.5 and 1.8 years. A critical finding is that for the most 
advantaged groups (i.e., White and/or higher educated), cognitive impairment is 
both delayed and compressed toward the very end of life. In contrast, despite 
the shorter lives of disadvantaged subgroups (Black and/or lower educated), they 
experience a younger age of onset, higher lifetime risk, and more years 
cognitively impaired. For example, men with at least an Associate degree have 
21% lifetime dementia risk, compared to 35% among men with less than high school 
education. White women have 6 years of cognitively-impaired life expectancy, 
compared to 12 and 13 years among Black women and Latinas. These educational and 
racial/ethnic gradients highlight the very uneven burden of cognitive 
impairment. Further research is required to identify the mechanisms driving 
these disparities in cognitive impairment.

© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2020.100577
PMCID: PMC7153285
PMID: 32300635


912. J Frailty Sarcopenia Falls. 2018 Sep 1;3(3):138-147. doi:
10.22540/JFSF-03-138.  eCollection 2018 Sep.

Diagnostic imaging of two related chronic diseases: Sarcopenia and Osteoporosis.

Tegola L(1), Mattera M(1), Cornacchia S(2), Cheng X(3), Guglielmi G(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Università degli Studi di Foggia, Department of Radiology, Viale Luigi Pinto, 
1. Foggia, Italy.
(2)Medical Physics, "Dimiccoli" Hospital, Barletta, Italy.
(3)Department of Radiology, Beijing Jishuitan Hospital, Beijing, China.
(4)Ospedale Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza, Department of Radiology, Viale 
Cappuccini, 1. San Giovanni Rotondo, Italy.

Sarcopenia and osteoporosis are two major health problems worldwide, responsible 
for a serious clinical and financial burden due to the increasing life 
expectancy. Both when presented as a single entity and, in particular, in the 
form of "osteosarcopenia", they lead to an important increased risk of falls, 
fractures, hospitalization and mortality. In dealing with these two pathological 
conditions, it is important to understand that between bone and muscle there is 
not only a functional correlation but also a close relationship in the 
development and in maintenance, which is well expressed by the concept of 
"bone-muscle unit". This close relationship agrees with the existence of a 
linear association between sarcopenia and osteoporosis, in particular in elderly 
population. It is mandatory, in the clinical assessment of both diseases, to do 
an early diagnosis or to delay as far as possible the appearance of an 
established form in order to prevent the onset of complications. The aim of this 
review is to present the different imaging modalities available for a 
non-invasive investigation of bone and muscle mass and quality in osteoporosis 
and sarcopenia, with their application and limitations.

Copyright: © 2018 Hylonome Publications.

DOI: 10.22540/JFSF-03-138
PMCID: PMC7155344
PMID: 32300703

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest.


913. EClinicalMedicine. 2020 Mar 5;20:100299. doi: 10.1016/j.eclinm.2020.100299. 
eCollection 2020 Mar.

Gender parity at scale: Examining correlations of country-level female 
participation in education and work with measures of men's and women's survival.

Gadoth A(1), Heymann J(1).

Author information:
(1)WORLD Policy Analysis Center, Fielding School of Public Health, University of 
California, Los Angeles, 621 Charles E Young Drive South, Los Angeles, CA 90095.

BACKGROUND: Past research has demonstrated the relationship between women's 
educational levels and other measures of social development with maternal and 
child health outcomes. This study examines the relationship between gender 
parity in education and work, achieved through greater female participation in 
both spheres, with survival in both women and men.
METHODS: Utilizing cross-sectional indicators from United Nations agencies, we 
constructed global indices of gender parity in education and work for 
international comparison. Multivariable regression was performed to assess 
relationships between gender parity index scores and national mortality rates or 
life expectancy indicators.
FINDINGS: Gender parity in both arenas was significantly associated with 
improved health outcomes after controlling for country health expenditures and 
other characteristics. A 10% higher country educational parity index score was 
associated with 59·5 fewer maternal deaths per 100 000 live births, a 2·1-year 
increase in female life expectancy, and almost a 1-year increase in male life 
expectancy at birth. Similarly, a 10% higher work parity index score was 
significantly associated with 14·6 fewer maternal deaths per 100 000 live births 
and a 0·9-year increase in female life expectancy at birth, with no deleterious 
relationship to male life expectancy.
INTERPRETATION: This study extends past research by examining actionable areas 
of gender equality and their impact on both male and female survival. While 
longitudinal research is needed to examine both causality and mechanisms, our 
findings suggest longevity gains for both women and men, and for all children 
through reduced maternal mortality, where greater parity in school and work is 
exhibited.
FUNDING: No funding source directly supported the work in this manuscript. We 
are deeply indebted to the Conrad N Hilton Foundation for its support of Adva 
Gadoth as a Hilton Scholar.

© 2020 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eclinm.2020.100299
PMCID: PMC7152805
PMID: 32300745

Conflict of interest statement: Drs. Gadoth and Heymann have nothing to 
disclose.


914. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2020 Sep 16;75(9):e30-e33. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glaa094.

A Geroscience Perspective on COVID-19 Mortality.

Promislow DEL(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington School of Medicine, 
Seattle.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Washington, Seattle.

A novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, emerged in December 2019, leading within a few 
months to a global pandemic. COVID-19, the disease caused by this highly 
contagious virus, can have serious health consequences, though risks of 
complications are highly age-dependent. Rates of hospitalization and death are 
less than 0.1% in children, but increase to 10% or more in older people. 
Moreover, at all ages, men are more likely than women to suffer serious 
consequences from COVID-19. These patterns are familiar to the geroscience 
community. The effects of age and sex on mortality rates from COVID-19 mirror 
the effects of aging on almost all major causes of mortality. These similarities 
are explored here, and underscore the need to consider the role of basic 
biological mechanisms of aging on potential treatment and outcomes of COVID-19.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glaa094
PMCID: PMC7184466
PMID: 32300796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Eur J Health Econ. 2020 Aug;21(6):903-915. doi: 10.1007/s10198-020-01183-y.
Epub  2020 Apr 16.

Does linear equating improve prediction in mapping? Crosswalking MacNew onto 
EQ-5D-5L value sets.

Lamu AN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Public Health and Primary Care, University of Bergen, 
Bergen, Norway. admassu.lamu@uib.no.

PURPOSE: Preference-based measures are essential for producing quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) that are widely used for economic evaluations. In the absence 
of such measures, mapping algorithms can be applied to estimate utilities from 
disease-specific measures. This paper aims to develop mapping algorithms between 
the MacNew Heart Disease Quality of Life Questionnaire (MacNew) instrument and 
the English and the US-based EQ-5D-5L value sets.
METHODS: Individuals with heart disease were recruited from six countries: 
Australia, Canada, Germany, Norway, UK and the US in 2011/12. Both parametric 
and non-parametric statistical techniques were applied to estimate mapping 
algorithms that predict utilities for MacNew scores from EQ-5D-5L value sets. 
The optimal algorithm for each country-specific value set was primarily selected 
based on root mean square error (RMSE), mean absolute error (MAE), concordance 
correlation coefficient (CCC), and r-squared. Leave-one-out cross-validation was 
conducted to test the generalizability of each model.
RESULTS: For both the English and the US value sets, the one-inflated beta 
regression model consistently performed best in terms of all criteria. Similar 
results were observed for the cross-validation results. The preferred model 
explained 59 and 60% for the English and the US value set, respectively. Linear 
equating provided predicted values that were equivalent to observed values.
CONCLUSIONS: The preferred mapping function enables to predict utilities for 
MacNew data from the EQ-5D-5L value sets recently developed in England and the 
US with better accuracy. This allows studies, which have included the MacNew to 
be used in cost-utility analyses and thus, the comparison of services with 
interventions across the health system.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-020-01183-y
PMCID: PMC7366565
PMID: 32300999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares that there is no conflict of 
interest.


916. ESC Heart Fail. 2020 Jun;7(3):1136-1144. doi: 10.1002/ehf2.12692. Epub 2020
Apr  16.

Cost and health effects of case management compared with outpatient clinic 
follow-up in a Dutch heart failure cohort.

van Voorst H(1)(2), Arnold AER(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, VU 
Amsterdam Main building, De Boelelaan 1105, Amsterdam, 1081 HV, the Netherlands.
(2)Cardiology, Noordwest Ziekenhuisgroep, Alkmaar, the Netherlands.

AIMS: Heart failure reduces quality of life and life expectancy; hospital 
admissions are frequent and create a burden on public resources. This study aims 
to quantify the benefits in terms of health effects [quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs)] and costs when heart failure patients receive case management at home 
compared with outpatient cardiology clinic follow-up.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A health state transition (Markov) model was written, and 
transition probabilities were derived from a cohort of 1114 patients and 
available literature. QALYs in different health states of heart failure patients 
were retrieved from the literature, and costs were estimated with data from the 
financial department of the Noordwest Ziekenhuisgroep and public cost sources. 
Monthly simulation cycles were repeated 60 times to generate 5 years of virtual 
follow-up data. Baseline willingness to pay is assumed €50 000 per QALY. 
Sensitivity analyses were performed in a one-way deterministic and a multiway 
probabilistic approach; the probabilistic approach used uniform and more 
plausible distributions of the model parameters. Case management reduced costs 
by €382 and increased QALYs by 0.261 for the baseline simulation; this results 
in a net monetary benefit of €13 428. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis based 
on uniform and most plausible distributions of parameters resulted in 96.2% and 
83.3% of the simulations, favouring a treatment strategy of case management.
CONCLUSIONS: Case management is cost effective in 83.3% of the probabilistic 
simulations and has a tendency towards reducing costs and increasing QALYs when 
considering a real-world cohort of heart failure patients in the Netherlands.

© 2020 The Authors. ESC Heart Failure published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on 
behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1002/ehf2.12692
PMCID: PMC7261554
PMID: 32301235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The first author (H. van Voorst) is currently a 
PhD candidate funded by the Dutch Heart Foundation (Nederlandse Hartstichting). 
None of these sponsors were involved at the time of analysis and writing of this 
article. There are no further conflicts of interest to report.


917. Rev Med Suisse. 2020 Apr 15;16(690):744-748.

[Stigma and HIV: relevant for everyone].

[Article in French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]

Cobos Manuel I(1)(2), Jackson-Perry D(2), Courvoisier C(1)(2), Bluntschli 
C(1)(2), Carel S(2)(3), Muggli E(2), Waelti Da Costa V(1), Kampouri E(1), 
Cavassini M(1)(2), Darling KEA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Consultation ambulatoire des maladies infectieuses, Service des maladies 
infectieuses, CHUV, 1011 Lausanne.
(2)Antenne de la consultation des maladies infectieuses, CHUV, 1003 Lausanne.
(3)Service social somatique, CHUV, 1011 Lausanne.

Medical advances in the treatment of HIV over the last 35 years mean that people 
living with HIV (PLHIV) now have a life expectancy close to that of the general 
population. Further, when successfully treated, PLHIV cannot transmit the virus. 
Despite this, HIV-related stigma remains widespread, including within healthcare 
settings. Stigma is not a vague sociological notion but represents a real threat 
to public health, with repercussions for both PLHIV and HIV-negative 
individuals. Stigma has been shown to have a negative impact on HIV prevention, 
testing, access to health services, and on the healthcare management of PLHIV. 
Taking stigma into consideration is essential, both in meeting the medical and 
psycho-social needs of PLHIV and in order to effectively combat HIV/AIDS.

Publisher: Les progrès des 35 dernières années dans la prise en charge médicale 
du VIH ont permis aux personnes vivant avec ce virus (PVVIH) d’avoir une 
espérance de vie similaire à celle de la population générale. Avec un traitement 
efficace, les PVVIH ne peuvent plus transmettre le virus. Cependant, la 
stigmatisation associée au VIH reste considérable, y compris dans les milieux de 
soins. La stigmatisation n’est pas une vague notion sociologique, mais un 
véritable enjeu de santé publique pouvant avoir un impact tant chez les 
personnes séronégatives que chez les PVVIH. Elle a un impact néfaste sur la 
prévention de l’infection, le dépistage, l’accès aux soins, et sur la gestion de 
la santé des PVVIH. Une prise en considération de la stigmatisation est 
essentielle pour garantir aux PVVIH un accompagnement médical et psychosocial 
optimal, ainsi que pour lutter contre l’épidémie du VIH/sida.

PMID: 32301309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Isabel Cobos Manuel, David Jackson-Perry, 
Cristina Bluntschli, Sybille Carel, Edith Muggli et Vreneli Waelti da Costa 
n’ont déclaré aucun conflit d’intérêts en relation avec cet article. 
L’institution de Mme Corine Courvoisier a reçu un soutien pour sponsoring de 
prestations éducatives de Gilead, MSD et ViiV. L’institution du Dr Eleftheria 
Kampouri a reçu un soutien de Gilead afin d’assister aux congrès. L’institution 
du Pr Matthias Cavassini a reçu un financement en lien avec des subsides de 
recherche de Gilead et Viiv, et suite à son avis d’expert à AbbVie, Gilead, MSD, 
Sandoz et ViiV. L’institution du Dr Katharine Darling a reçu un financement en 
lien avec des subsides de recherche de Gilead et un soutien de MSD afin 
d’assister aux congrès.


918. J Med Econ. 2020 Aug;23(8):838-847. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2020.1757456. Epub
 2020 May 13.

Cost-effectiveness of sequential urate lowering therapies for the management of 
gout in Singapore.

Pruis SL(1), Jeon YK(1), Pearce F(1), Thong BY(2), Aziz MIA(1).

Author information:
(1)Agency for Care Effectiveness, Ministry of Health Singapore, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(2)Department of Rheumatology, Allergy and Immunology, Tan Tock Seng Hospital, 
Singapore, Singapore.

Aims: Allopurinol is the most common urate lowering therapy (ULT) used to treat 
gout but may cause life-threatening severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCAR) in 
a small number of patients. Risk of SCAR is increased for patients with the 
HLA-B*58:01 genotype. When alternative ULT is required, febuxostat or probenecid 
are recommended. The aim of this study was to conduct a cost-utility analysis of 
sequential ULT treatment strategies for gout, including strategies with and 
without HLA-B*58:01 genotyping prior to treatment initiation, with a view to 
inform optimal gout management in Singapore.Materials and methods: A Markov 
model was developed from the Singapore healthcare payer perspective. Reflecting 
local practice, 12 different treatment strategies containing at least one ULT 
(allopurinol, febuxostat, probenecid) were evaluated in adults with gout. 
Response rates (SUA < 6mg/dL) were derived from an in-house network 
meta-analysis and from published literature. Incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios (ICERs) were calculated over a 30-year time horizon, with costs and 
benefits discounted at 3% per annum. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to 
explore uncertainties.Results: Sequential treatment of allopurinol 
300 mg/day-allopurinol 600 mg/day-probenecid ("standard of care") was 
cost-effective compared to no ULT, with an ICER of SGD1,584/QALY. 
Allopurinol300-allopurinol600-probenecid-febuxostat sequence compared to 
allopurinol300-allopurinol600-probenecid had an ICER of SGD11,400/QALY. All 
other treatment strategies were dominated by preceding strategies. Treatment 
strategies incorporating HLA-B*58:01 genotyping before ULT use were dominated by 
the corresponding non-genotyping strategy.Conclusions: Current standard of care 
(allopurinol300-allopurinol 600-probenecid) for gout is cost-effective compared 
with no ULT in the local context. Febuxostat is unlikely to be cost-effective in 
Singapore at current prices unless it is used last-line.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2020.1757456
PMID: 32301360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2020 May;55(5):621-625. doi: 
10.1080/00365521.2020.1752300. Epub 2020 Apr 17.

Large-scale epidemiological data on vascular disorders of the intestine.

Lippi G(1), Mattiuzzi C(2), Sanchis-Gomar F(3).

Author information:
(1)Section of Clinical Biochemistry, University of Verona, Verona, Italy.
(2)Service of Clinical Governance, Provincial Agency for Social and Sanitary 
Services, Trento, Italy.
(3)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Valencia and 
INCLIVA Biomedical Research Institute, Valencia, Spain.

Objectives: This article aims to provide updates on the worldwide epidemiology 
of vascular disorders of the intestine.Methods: A comprehensive search for 
obtaining worldwide epidemiologic information on the burden of vascular 
disorders of the intestine was carried out in the Global Health Data Exchange 
(GHDx) repository. The condition 'vascular intestinal disorders' was associated 
with other epidemiologic variables such as year, sex, age, location and 
socioeconomic status.Results: The current global incidence and mortality of 
vascular disorders of the intestine are 8.11 per 100,000 cases/year and 1.26 per 
100,000 deaths/year, respectively, translating into a death rate of 15.5%. Both 
global incidence and mortality are 32% higher in the female sex and have both 
displayed a continuous increase during the past 20 years (+29.3% and +18.4% 
since 1998, respectively). Incidence and mortality curves appear similar between 
sexes, with the incidence increasing after the age of 40 years and mortality 
after the age of 50 years, respectively. The peak of both worldwide incidence 
and mortality was seen in very elderly people. The death rate increased in 
parallel with incidence and mortality, from ∼1% to 3% in childhood up to ∼50% 
after the age of 95 years. Both incidence and mortality displayed a positive 
association with socioeconomic status. Future projections suggest that incidence 
and mortality will display 44% and 24% growths by the year 2050.Conclusions: Our 
analysis demonstrates that the clinical and societal burden of vascular 
disorders of the intestine is especially higher in women, in the elderly and in 
people with higher socioeconomic status.

DOI: 10.1080/00365521.2020.1752300
PMID: 32301364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Clin Transplant. 2020 Jul;34(7):e13884. doi: 10.1111/ctr.13884. Epub 2020
May  10.

Graft survival of fourth-time renal transplant recipients is similar to 
third-time recipients: A SRTR database analysis.

Petrun BM(1), Christie R(1), Nygaard RM(1), Israni A(2), Hill MJ(1), Richardson 
CJ(1), Stahler PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Hennepin Healthcare, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.
(2)Department of Nephrology, Hennepin Healthcare, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.

BACKGROUND: Candidates for repeat kidney transplant (KT) have increased. While 
graft and patient survival are inferior to primary KT, second and third KTs 
improve patient survival over dialysis. Little is known about the outcomes after 
fourth KTs.
METHODS: We retrospectively compared characteristics of third and fourth KTs in 
the SRTR. Factors associated with graft survival in third vs fourth KT and 
patient survival of fourth KT vs patients waitlisted for a 4th KT were assessed 
by Cox regression and multivariable linear regression analysis.
RESULTS: There were 3055 third- and fourth-time KTs performed in the United 
States. Fourth-time graft survival was not significantly different from 
third-time transplants (HR 1.06, P = .653). Patients who received a fourth KT 
have a significant survival advantage compared with patients who remained on the 
waitlist for a fourth KT (HR = 0.53, P = .006).
CONCLUSIONS: Graft and patient survival of fourth KTs are comparable to third 
KTs, but inferior to first and second KTs in terms of graft and patient 
survival. Recipients of fourth KT have had an increased life expectancy compared 
with patients waitlisted for a fourth KT.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ctr.13884
PMID: 32301524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. J Comp Eff Res. 2020 May;9(7):469-481. doi: 10.2217/cer-2019-0129. Epub 2020
Apr  17.

Disease burden of schizophrenia patients visiting a Chinese regional mental 
health centre.

Zhong Q(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Tan Y(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Chen W(7)(8), Huang H(7), Huang 
J(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Li S(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Teng Z(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Shen 
M(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Wu C(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Wang L(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Cao 
S(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Chen J(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Wu H(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Tang 
H(1)(2)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, The Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(2)National Clinical Research Center on Mental Disorders (Xiangya), Changsha, 
Hunan, China.
(3)National Technology Institute on Mental Disorders, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(4)Hunan Key Laboratory of Psychiatry & Mental Health, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(5)Mental Health Institute, The Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(6)Changde Recovery Hospital, Changde, Hunan, China.
(7)Changsha Normin Health Technology Ltd, Changsha, China.
(8)Normin Health Consulting Ltd, Toronto, Ontario L5R 0E9, Canada.

Aim & methods: A decision-analytic model was constructed to simulate a 
real-world cohort of Chinese patients visiting a Chinese regional mental health 
center for long-term health outcomes and direct medical costs. Results: When 
compared with age and gender-matched general population, the Chinese patients 
with schizophrenia were associated with reduced overall survival by 20.6 years 
(27.6 vs 48.2 years) and reduced quality-adjusted life years (QALY) by 18.4 QALY 
(18.4 vs 36.8 QALY), respectively, and increased lifetime direct medical costs 
by about three-times (US$84,324 vs 33,387 as of 31 December 2017) on average. 
Conclusion: The burden of schizophrenia was mainly driven by the mortality 
associated with relapsed schizophrenia and direct medical costs for 
schizophrenia in local mental health rehabilitation institutes.

DOI: 10.2217/cer-2019-0129
PMID: 32301625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2021 May-Jun 01;55(5):411-421. doi: 
10.1097/MCG.0000000000001343.

IBS Patients' Treatment Expectancy and Motivation Impacts Quality of the 
Therapeutic Alliance With Provider: Results of the IBS Outcome Study.

Lackner JM(1), Quigley BM, Radziwon CD, Vargovich AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Behavioral Medicine, Jacobs School of 
Medicine, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY.

BACKGROUND: In the absence of a satisfactory medical or dietary treatment, the 
quality of the therapeutic alliance between irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) 
patients and their provider is deemed critical to managing refractory IBS. 
Surprisingly, little research has been conducted on the nature of the 
therapeutic alliance, factors that influence it, or practical strategies to 
improve it. This study sought to identify actionable variables that impact 
therapeutic alliance in patients with refractory IBS.
METHODS: Subjects included a total of 436 Rome III-diagnosed IBS patients (80% 
female, mean age=41.39 y) who completed a battery of clinical measures at the 
beginning of the acute treatment phase of an National Institutes of Health (NIH) 
behavioral trial. Pretreatment candidate predictor variables were organized into 
4 categories: sociodemographic, extraintestinal, interpersonal, clinical (eg, 
symptom severity, pain intensity), cognitive (eg, treatment motivation, 
expectancy for improvement). Alliance was assessed by patient and 
clinician-rated measures of the Working Alliance Inventory after first treatment 
session.
RESULTS: Patient reports of alliance were most strongly and consistently 
predicted by patient access to interpersonal support [β=0.16; 95% confidence 
interval (CI)=0.07-0.25], motivation for IBS symptom improvement (β=0.12; 95% 
CI=0.02-0.21), and expectancy of IBS symptom improvement (β=0.35; 95% 
CI=0.25-0.44). Therapist ratings of alliance also were predicted by patient 
expectancy of IBS symptom improvement (β=0.16; 95% CI=0.05-0.26).
CONCLUSION: When managing IBS, a focus on dynamic factors of treatment 
motivation, social support, and treatment expectancy may be useful in improving 
the quality of the therapeutic alliance between patient and clinical 
gastroenterologist.

Copyright © 2020 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/MCG.0000000000001343
PMCID: PMC7694872
PMID: 32301832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2020 Nov/Dec;54(10):898-904. doi: 
10.1097/MCG.0000000000001347.

Improving Communication in Outpatient Consultations in People With Cirrhosis: 
The Development of a Question Prompt List (QPL).

Low JTS(1), Davis S(1), Greenslade L(2), Carroll C(3), Craig R(3), Wilson J(3), 
Clancy JL(2), Marshall A(2)(4), Thorburn D(2)(4), Stone P(1).

Author information:
(1)Marie Curie Palliative Care Research Department, Division of Psychiatry, 
University College London.
(2)Sheila Sherlock Liver Unit, Royal Free Hospital & University College London.
(3)Palliative Care Department, Royal Free London NHS Trust.
(4)UCL Institute of Liver and Digestive Health, University College London (Royal 
Free Hospital Campus), Royal Free Hospital, London, UK.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Liver health professionals have difficulty discussing liver 
cirrhosis and its prognosis with patients and families. Question Prompt Lists 
(QPLs), which are evidence-based lists of "recommended questions," may improve 
communication but need to be designed specifically for the target population. 
This study aimed to develop and pilot a QPL for patients with cirrhosis.
METHODS: A mixed-methods design in 3 phases. In phase 1 (item generation), 
potential questions for inclusion in the QPL were identified from 3 sources-a 
scoping literature review; an online survey; and interviews with patients, 
family members, and health professionals. In phase 2 (QPL construction), a 
multidisciplinary expert panel finalized the selection of questions and the 
format of the QPL. In phase 3 (pilot study), the QPL was assessed for 
acceptability and feasibility in a hepatology outpatient clinic population.
RESULTS: From 258 topics initially identified, 30 questions were included in the 
first draft of the QPL. After review by a multidisciplinary expert panel 
including patients, the QPL was reduced to 22 questions. In the pilot study, 
133/215 eligible patients consented to participate, although only 67/133 used 
the QPL in their clinic appointment. Among those who used the QPL, all questions 
were asked at least once. The most commonly asked question related to life 
expectancy. Most participants expressed support for the content of the QPL.
CONCLUSIONS: A QPL, suitable for use in patients with liver cirrhosis attending 
hepatology outpatient clinics, has been developed and piloted. The QPL seems to 
be feasible to use and acceptable to patients and clinicians. Further work is 
needed to evaluate its effectiveness and to determine optimum delivery in 
clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1097/MCG.0000000000001347
PMCID: PMC7664949
PMID: 32301836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. J Pediatr Orthop. 2020 Sep;40(8):e772-e779. doi:
10.1097/BPO.0000000000001568.

Serial Casting in Neuromuscular and Syndromic Early-onset Scoliosis (EOS) Can 
Delay Surgery Over 2 Years.

LaValva S(1)(2), Adams A(1), MacAlpine E(1), Gupta P(3), Hammerberg K(3), 
Thompson GH(4)(5), Sturm P(6), Garg S(7), Anari J(1)(2), Sponseller P(8), Flynn 
J(1)(2), Cahill PJ(1)(2); Pediatric Spine Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.
(2)Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.
(3)Shriners Hospital for Children, Chicago, IL.
(4)Rainbow Babies and Children's Hospital.
(5)Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland.
(6)Cincinnati Children's Hospital, Cincinnati, OH.
(7)Children's Hospital Colorado, Aurora, CO.
(8)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD.

BACKGROUND: The primary goal in managing early-onset scoliosis (EOS) is 
delaying/preventing surgical intervention while allowing improved spinal growth 
and chest wall and lung development to improve life expectancy. The 
effectiveness of serial casting for patients with neuromuscular and syndromic 
EOS is unclear.
METHODS: Patients from 2 multicenter registries who underwent serial casting for 
nonidiopathic scoliosis (NIS) were reviewed retrospectively. Comparisons were 
made between precasting and postcasting major and compensatory curves and spine 
height. The need for surgical intervention and any treatment complications were 
documented. Risk factors for major curve progression from baseline to casting 
cessation were evaluated via univariate analysis.
RESULTS: Forty-four patients (23 females; 21 males) with NIS (26 syndromic, 18 
neuromuscular) and a mean age of 3.2 years at baseline were included. Mean 
follow-up and casting duration was 3.9 and 2.0 years, respectively. There were 
no statistically significant differences between mean precasting and postcasting 
major curve (55 vs. 60 degrees; P=0.348), minor curve (31 vs. 33 degrees; 
P=0.510), or rib-vertebra angle difference (18 vs. 29 degrees; P=0.840). 
However, thoracic height (15.5 vs. 16.8 cm; P=0.031) and lumbar height (8.9 vs. 
9.8 cm; P=0.013) were significantly greater upon casting cessation. Currently, 
13 patients (30%) have had successful casting (improvement of major curve ≥10 
degrees) while 24 patients (55%) experienced major curve progression 
(worsening), and 19 patients (43%) required surgical intervention. Mean time 
from first casting to surgery was 34.5±15.1 months. There were no statistically 
significant predictors for major curve progression on univariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Spinal deformity progression despite casting and the subsequent 
need for surgical intervention for NIS were significantly higher compared with 
those reported for idiopathic EOS. However, serial casting did afford a 
substantial delay in surgical intervention. Ultimately, serial casting for 
neuromuscular or syndromic EOS is an effective strategy for delaying surgical 
intervention, despite suboptimal radiographic outcomes.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III.

DOI: 10.1097/BPO.0000000000001568
PMID: 32301848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Psychiatry Res. 2020 Jun;288:112945. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2020.112945.
Epub  2020 Apr 11.

People experiencing homelessness: Their potential exposure to COVID-19.

Lima NNR(1), de Souza RI(2), Feitosa PWG(3), Moreira JLS(3), da Silva CGL(3), 
Neto MLR(4).

Author information:
(1)The Suicidology Research Group from Universidade Federal do Ceará (UFC), 
Fortaleza, Ceará, Brazil.
(2)School of Medicine of Juazeiro do Norte - FMJ/Estácio, Juazeiro do Norte, 
Ceará, Brazil.
(3)School of Medicine, Federal University of Cariri - UFCA, Barbalha, Ceará, 
Brazil.
(4)The Suicidology Research Group from Universidade Federal do Ceará (UFC), 
Fortaleza, Ceará, Brazil.; School of Medicine of Juazeiro do Norte - 
FMJ/Estácio, Juazeiro do Norte, Ceará, Brazil.; School of Medicine, Federal 
University of Cariri - UFCA, Barbalha, Ceará, Brazil.. Electronic address: 
modesto.neto@ufca.edu.br.

BACKGROUND: Insufficient housing quality is associated with stress and mental 
health impacts. Crowding, pollution, noise, inadequate lighting, lack of access 
to green spaces, and other environmental factors associated with slums can 
exacerbate mental health disorders, including depression, anxiety, violence, and 
other forms of social dysfunction.
METHOD: The studies were identified using large-sized newspapers with 
international circulation.
RESULTS: Experts say that people who sleep in shelters or on the streets already 
have lower life expectancy, suffer from addiction, and have underlying health 
conditions that put them at greater risk should they develop the virus. There 
are just so many competing and unmet needs, which makes it much harder for 
homeless to contend with all of this. If exposed, people experiencing 
homelessness might be more susceptible to illness or death due to the prevalence 
of underlying physical and mental medical conditions and a lack of reliable and 
affordable health care. Nevertheless, without an urgent solution, people 
experiencing homelessness will remain in limbo.
CONCLUSIONS: Many people living on the streets already have a diminished health 
condition, higher rates of chronic illnesses or compromised immune systems, all 
of which are risk factors for developing a more serious manifestation of the 
coronavirus infection. Those suffering from mental illness may have difficulty 
in recognizing and responding to the threat of infection. Homeless people have 
less access to health care providers who could otherwise order diagnostic 
testing and, if confirmed, isolate them from others in coordination with local 
health departments.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2020.112945
PMCID: PMC7151321
PMID: 32302813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


926. BMC Geriatr. 2020 Apr 17;20(1):142. doi: 10.1186/s12877-020-01537-4.

Study on advance care planning in care dependent community-dwelling older 
persons in Germany (STADPLAN): protocol of a cluster-randomised controlled 
trial.

Schnakenberg R(1), Silies K(2), Berg A(3), Kirchner Ä(3), Langner H(3), 
Chuvayaran Y(4), Köberlein-Neu J(4), Haastert B(5), Wiese B(6), Meyer G(3), 
Köpke S(2), Hoffmann F(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research, Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Carl von Ossietzky University Oldenburg, Oldenburg, Germany. 
rieke.schnakenberg@uol.de.
(2)Institute for Social Medicine and Epidemiology, Nursing Research Unit, 
University of Lübeck, Lübeck, Germany.
(3)Medical Faculty, Institute for Health- and Nursing Science, Martin Luther 
University Halle-Wittenberg, Halle, Germany.
(4)Center for Health Economics and Health Services Research, Schumpeter School 
of Business and Economics, University of Wuppertal, Wuppertal, Germany.
(5)mediStatistica, Neuenrade, Germany.
(6)Institute for General Practice, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany.
(7)Department of Health Services Research, Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Carl von Ossietzky University Oldenburg, Oldenburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: In Germany, advance care planning (ACP) was first introduced by law 
in 2015. However, ACP is still uncommon in Germany and only few people have 
advance directive forms. This study aims to evaluate an ACP program in care 
dependent community-dwelling persons, compared to optimised usual care.
METHODS: A cluster-randomised controlled trial of 12 months duration will be 
conducted in 3 German study sites comparing the pretested ACP-counselling 
offered by trained nurses with a control group receiving optimised usual care. 
Using external concealed randomisation, 16 home care services each will be 
included in the intervention and the control group (30 participants per cluster; 
n = 960). Eligibility criteria for patients are: ≥60 years, somehow care 
dependent, adequate German language skills, assumed life-expectancy of ≥4 weeks, 
and cognitive ability for participation. ACP will be delivered by trained nurse 
facilitators of the respective home care services and communication will include 
proxy decision-makers. The primary endpoint will be patient activation, assessed 
by the Patient Activation Measure (PAM-13). Secondary endpoints include 
ACP-engagement, proportion of prepared advance directives, number and duration 
of hospitalisations, quality of life as well as depression and anxiety. Further, 
comprehensive economic and process evaluations will be conducted.
DISCUSSION: STADPLAN is the first study in Germany that assesses an adapted ACP 
intervention with trained nurses in home care services and the first 
international study focusing on cost effectiveness of ACP in community-dwelling 
older persons. The results will help to improve the understanding and 
communicating of patients' preferences regarding medical treatment and care and 
thereby contribute to patients' autonomy.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: German Clinical Trials Register: DRKS00016886 (Date of 
registration: 04.06.2019).

DOI: 10.1186/s12877-020-01537-4
PMCID: PMC7164271
PMID: 32303198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


927. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2020 Apr 17;15(1):95. doi: 10.1186/s13023-020-1345-5.

The French paediatric cohort of Castleman disease: a retrospective report of 23 
patients.

Borocco C(1), Ballot-Schmit C(2), Ackermann O(3), Aladjidi N(4), Delaleu J(5), 
Giacobbi-Milet V(6), Jannier S(7), Jeziorski E(8), Maurier F(9), Perel Y(4), 
Piguet C(10), Oksenhendler E(11)(12), Koné-Paut I(1), Galeotti C(13)(14).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Rheumatology, CeReMAIA, CHU Bicêtre, Assistance 
Publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, Université Paris-Sud-Saclay, 94270, Le Kremlin 
Bicêtre, France.
(2)Department of Paediatrics, CHU Jean Minjoz, Besançon, France.
(3)Department of Paediatric Hepatology, CHU Bicêtre, Assistance Publique 
-Hôpitaux de Paris, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France.
(4)Paediatric Oncology Haematology Unit, Hôpital Pellegrin, Bordeaux, France.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, CeReMAIA, CHU Tenon, Assistance Publique - 
Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, France.
(6)Department of Paediatric Haematology and Oncology, Centre Hospitalier du 
Mans, Le Mans, France.
(7)Department of Paediatric Haematology and Oncology, CHU Hautepierre, 
Strasbourg, France.
(8)Department of Paediatrics, CeReMAIA, CHU Arnaud de Villeneuve, Montpellier, 
France.
(9)Department of Internal Medicine, Hôpitaux privés de Metz, Metz, France.
(10)Paediatric Oncology Haematology Unit, CHU de Limoges, Limoges, France.
(11)Department of Clinical Immunology, CHU Saint-Louis, Paris, France.
(12)National Reference Center for Castleman Disease, Paris, France.
(13)Department of Paediatric Rheumatology, CeReMAIA, CHU Bicêtre, Assistance 
Publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, Université Paris-Sud-Saclay, 94270, Le Kremlin 
Bicêtre, France. caroline.galeotti@gmail.com.
(14)National Reference Center for Castleman Disease, Paris, France. 
caroline.galeotti@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Castleman disease (CD) is a rare non-malignant lymphoproliferation 
of undetermined origin. Two major disease phenotypes can be distinguished: 
unicentric CD (UCD) and multicentric CD (MCD). Diagnosis confirmation is based 
on histopathological findings in a lymph node. We attempted to survey all cases 
of paediatric CD identified to date in France to set up a national registry 
aiming to improve CD early recognition, treatment and follow-up, within the 
context of a new national reference center (http://www.castleman.fr).
METHODS: In 2016, we e-mailed a questionnaire to members of the French 
paediatric immunohaematology society, the paediatric rheumatology society and 
the Reference Centre for Castleman Disease to retrospectively collect cases of 
paediatric CD (first symptoms before age 18 years). Anatomopathological 
confirmation was mandatory.
RESULTS: We identified 23 patients (12 girls) with a diagnosis of UCD (n = 17) 
and MCD (n = 6) between 1994 and 2018. The mean age at first symptoms was 
11.47 ± 4.23 years for UCD and 8.3 ± 3.4 years for MCD. The mean diagnosis delay 
was 8.16 ± 10.32 months for UCD and 5.16 ± 5.81 years for MCD. In UCD, the 
initial symptoms were isolated lymph nodes (n = 10) or lymph node associated 
with other symptoms (n = 7); fever was present in 3 patients. Five patients with 
MCD presented fever. No patients had HIV or human herpesvirus 8 infection. 
Autoinflammatory gene mutations were investigated in five patients. One patient 
with MCD carried a K695R heterozygous mutation in MEFV, another patient with MCD 
and Duchenne myopathy carried two variants in TNFRSF1A and one patient with UCD 
and fever episodes carried two heterozygous mutations, in IL10RA and IL36RN, 
respectively. Treatment of UCD was mainly surgical resection, steroids, and 
radiotherapy. Treatment of MCD included tocilizumab, rituximab, anakinra, 
steroids, chemotherapy, and splenectomy. Overall survival after a mean of 
6.1 ± 6.4 years of follow-up, was 100% for both forms.
CONCLUSION: Paediatric CD still seems underdiagnosed, with a significant 
diagnosis delay, especially for MCD, but new international criteria will help in 
the future. Unlike adult CD, which is strongly associated with HIV and human 
herpesvirus 8 infection, paediatric CD could be favored by primary activation of 
innate immunity and may affect life expectancy less.

DOI: 10.1186/s13023-020-1345-5
PMCID: PMC7164260
PMID: 32303241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


928. Surg Obes Relat Dis. 2020 Jul;16(7):948-954. doi:
10.1016/j.soard.2020.02.015.  Epub 2020 Mar 10.

Reverse epidemiology and the obesity paradox for patients with chronic kidney 
disease: a Markov decision model.

Choudhury RA(1), Yoeli D(2), Moore HB(2), Yaffe H(2), Hoeltzel GD(3), Dumon 
KR(3), Williams NN(3), Abt PL(3), Conzen KD(2), Nydam TL(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Colorado Hospital, Department of Surgery- Division of 
Transplant Surgery, Aurora, Colorado. Electronic address: 
rashikh.choudhury@cuanschutz.edu.
(2)University of Colorado Hospital, Department of Surgery- Division of 
Transplant Surgery, Aurora, Colorado.
(3)University of Pennsylvania Hospital, Department of Surgery, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania.

BACKGROUND: Obesity has been associated with both increased progression of 
chronic kidney disease (CKD) as well as with a paradoxical improvement in 
survival among end-stage renal disease patients undergoing hemodialysis. As 
such, the optimal weight management strategy for obese CKD patients remains 
unclear.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the outcomes of obese, CKD stage 3b patients after 3 
weight loss interventions, including medical weight management, sleeve 
gastrectomy (SG), and Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB), were followed to 
determine which strategy optimizes long-term survival.
SETTING: University hospital, Aurora, Colorado.
METHODS: A decision analytic Markov state transition model was created to 
simulate the life of 30,000 obese patients with CKD stage 3b, as they progressed 
to end-stage renal disease, transplantation, and death. Life expectancy after 
conservative medical weight management, RYGB, and SG were estimated. Base case 
patients were defined as being 50 years old and having a preintervention BMI of 
40 kg/m2. Sensitivity analysis of initial BMI was performed. All Markov 
parameters were extracted from literature review.
RESULTS: RYGB and SG were associated with improved survival for patients with 
preintervention body mass index of >38 kg/m2. Compared with conservative weight 
management, base case patients who underwent RYGB gained 10.6 months of life, 
and gained 8.3 months of life after SG.
CONCLUSIONS: Balancing progression of CKD with improved survival on end-stage 
renal disease for obese patients requires selective use of weight management 
strategies. RYGB and SG improved survival for CKD patients with Class II and III 
obesity, but not for patients with Class I obesity. As such, aggressive weight 
loss interventions should be reserved for patients with Class II and III 
obesity, while more conservative methods should be offered to those with Class I 
obesity.

Copyright © 2020 American Society for Bariatric Surgery. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soard.2020.02.015
PMID: 32303425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Clin Rheumatol. 2020 Oct;39(10):2919-2930. doi: 10.1007/s10067-020-05087-3.
Epub  2020 Apr 17.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of treatment sequences containing tofacitinib for 
the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in Spain.

Navarro F(1), Martinez-Sesmero JM(2), Balsa A(3), Peral C(4), Montoro M(4), 
Valderrama M(4), Gómez S(4), de Andrés-Nogales F(5), Casado MA(5), Oyagüez I(6).

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Deparment Hospital Quirón Salud Infanta Luisa, Seville, Spain.
(2)Hospital Pharmacy, Hospital Universitario Clínico San Carlos, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Rheumatology Department Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Pfizer S.L.U, Alcobendas, Madrid, Spain.
(5)Pharmacoeconomics & Outcomes Research Iberia (PORIB), Paseo Joaquín Rodrigo, 
4 letra I, 28224, Pozuelo de Alarcón, Madrid, Spain.
(6)Pharmacoeconomics & Outcomes Research Iberia (PORIB), Paseo Joaquín Rodrigo, 
4 letra I, 28224, Pozuelo de Alarcón, Madrid, Spain. ioyaguez@porib.com.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of tofacitinib-containing treatment 
sequences versus sequences containing only standard biological therapies in 
patients with moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis (RA) after the failure of 
conventional synthetic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (csDMARD-IR 
population) and in patients previously treated with methotrexate (MTX) who show 
an inadequate response to second-line therapy with any tumour necrosis factor 
inhibitor (TNFi-IR population).
METHODS: A patient-level microsimulation model estimated, from the perspective 
of the Spanish Public NHS, lifetime costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALY) 
for treatment sequences starting with tofacitinib (5 mg twice daily) followed by 
biological therapies versus sequences of biological treatments only. Concomitant 
treatment with MTX was considered. Model's parameters comprised demographic and 
clinical inputs (initial Health Assessment Questionnaire [HAQ] score and 
clinical response to short- and long-term treatment). Efficacy was measured by 
means of HAQ score changes using mixed treatment comparisons and data from 
long-term extension (LTE) trials. Serious adverse events (SAEs) data were 
derived from the literature. Total cost estimation (€, 2018) included drug 
acquisition, parenteral administration, disease progression and SAE management.
RESULTS: In the csDMARD-IR population, sequences starting with tofacitinib 
proved dominant options (more QALYs and lower costs) versus the corresponding 
sequences without tofacitinib. In the TNFi-IR population, first-line treatment 
with tofacitinib+MTX followed by scAbatacept+MTX➔rituximab+MTX➔certolizumab+MTX 
proved dominant versus 
scTocilizumab+MTX➔scAbatacept+MTX➔rituximab+MTX➔certolizumab+MTX; and 
tofacitinib+MTX➔scTocilizumab+MTX➔scAbatacept+MTX➔rituximab+MTX versus 
scTocilizumab+MTX➔scAbatacept+MTX➔rituximab+MTX➔certolizumab+MTX was less 
effective but remained a cost-saving option.
CONCLUSIONS: Inclusion of tofacitinib seems a dominant strategy in 
moderate-to-severe RA patients after csDMARDs failure. Tofacitinib, as initial 
third-line therapy, proved a cost-saving strategy (€- 337,489/QALY foregone) in 
moderate-to-severe TNFi-IR RA patients. Key points • Therapeutical approach in 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) consisted in sequences of several therapies during 
patient lifetime. • Treatment sequences initiating with tofacitinib followed by 
biological drugs provided higher health effects in csDMARDs-IR population, 
compared with sequences containing only biological drugs. • In both csDMARD-IR 
and TNFi-IR RA populations, initiating treatment with tofacitinib was associated 
to lower treatment costs for the Spanish National Health System.

DOI: 10.1007/s10067-020-05087-3
PMCID: PMC7497326
PMID: 32303858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: FdA, MAC and IO are employed by 
Pharmacoeconomics & Outcomes Research Iberia (PORIB), a consulting company 
specialised in the economic evaluation of health interventions which received 
funding from Pfizer to carry out this work. FN, JMMS, AB have received 
honoraries from Pfizer to be part of the advisory board which validated the 
project. CP, MM, SG and MV are Pfizer employees (Spain).


930. Psychiatry Res. 2020 Jun;288:112939. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2020.112939.
Epub  2020 Apr 13.

When basic supplies are missing, what to do? Specific demands of the local 
street population in times of coronavirus - a concern of social psychiatry.

Neto MLR(1), de Souza RI(2), Quezado RMM(2), Mendonça ECS(2), de Araújo TI(3), 
Luz DCRP(4), de Santana WJ(4), Sampaio JRF(5), Carvalho PMM(4), Arrais TMSN(4), 
Landim JMM(4), da Silva CGL(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine of Juazeiro do Norte - FMJ/Estácio, Juazeiro do Norte, 
Ceará, Brazil; School of Medicine, Federal University of Cariri - UFCA, 
Barbalha, Ceará, Brazil. Electronic address: modesto.neto@ufca.edu.br.
(2)School of Medicine of Juazeiro do Norte - FMJ/Estácio, Juazeiro do Norte, 
Ceará, Brazil.
(3)Rigoberto Romero de Barros Maternity Hospital, Amontada, Ceará Brazil.
(4)Postgraduate Program in Health Sciences, School of Medicine of ABC, Santo 
André, São Paulo, Brazil; College of Juazeiro do Norte - FJN, Juazeiro do Norte, 
Ceará, Brazil.
(5)College of Juazeiro do Norte - FJN, Juazeiro do Norte, Ceará, Brazil.
(6)School of Medicine of Juazeiro do Norte - FMJ/Estácio, Juazeiro do Norte, 
Ceará, Brazil; School of Medicine, Federal University of Cariri - UFCA, 
Barbalha, Ceará, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Homeless experts and some federal housing officials are sounding the 
alarm that the patchwork of government efforts to address the coronavirus 
outbreak risks leaving out one group of acutely vulnerable people: the homeless. 
In terms of isolation, it is too unclear what that looks like if you normally 
sleep on the streets. In this tough moment, when people should be turned away, 
not only it feels inhumane, but it is also a big public health risk, because 
where are they going to go?
METHOD: The studies were identified using large-sized newspapers with 
international circulation RESULTS: With more cities suspecting community 
transmission of the novel coronavirus, people who sleep in shelters or hunker 
down outside already have a lower life expectancy and often have underlying 
health conditions that put them at greater risk if they develop COVID-19 (Global 
News, 2020). These people face lack of sleep, malnutrition, and "extreme stress 
