to initial values compared to a decrease of 44% in the control fruit at the end 
of the experiment. This work provides a paradigm shift in how CA could be 
applied and a better understanding of blueberry physiology and postharvest 
behavior.

Copyright © 2020 Falagán, Miclo and Terry.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2020.00221
PMCID: PMC7092723
PMID: 32256505


808. J Glob Health. 2020 Jun;10(1):010701. doi: 10.7189/jogh.10.010701.

Gender equality and global health: intersecting political challenges.

Cislaghi B(1), Weber AM(2), Gupta GR(3), Darmstadt GL(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health and Development, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(2)School of Community Health Sciences, University of Nevada, Reno, Nevada, USA.
(3)United Nations Foundation, Washington, D.C., USA.
(4)Department of Pediatrics and Center for Population Health Sciences, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: Women's and men's health outcomes are different. Some differences 
are biological, related to male and female sex, while others are related to 
their gender. Sex- and gender-related issues require different solutions, but 
policy makers lack straightforward heuristic strategies to identify 
gender-related health inequities.
METHODS: Using 169 causes of disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) from the 
2017 Global Burden of Disease, we calculated the female-to-male (f:m) and 
male-to-female (m:f) ratios of global DALYs, rank-ordered the ratios by size and 
calculated the proportion of all-cause DALYs that each cause explained, 
separately for males and females 15-49 years old. Gender-related vs sex-related 
causes were categorised using literature on the drivers for the 15 causes with 
highest f:m and m:f ratios.
RESULTS: Causes of DALYs with high m:f ratios appear to be gendered and include: 
road injuries, interpersonal violence, and drowning - totaling 12.4% of men's 
(15-49 years) all-cause DALYs. However, causes of DALYs with high f:m ratios are 
more likely a mix of sex-related and gender-related factors - including headache 
disorders, depressive disorders, and dietary iron deficiency - totaling 13.4% of 
women's (15-49 years) all-cause DALYs. Ratios vary by age, geography and 
Socio-demographic Index.
CONCLUSIONS: Gender-related vs sex-related causes were categorised using 
available literature on the drivers for selected causes, illustrating that 
sex-disaggregated data represents a mix of social and biological influences. 
This analysis offers a model that policy makers can use to uncover potential 
gender inequalities in health, including intersections with other social 
factors. From it, new challenges emerge for global health policy makers and 
practitioners willing to address them. Global health actors will need to achieve 
a balance between the two agendas of global health and gender equality.

Copyright © 2020 by the Journal of Global Health. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.7189/jogh.10.010701
PMCID: PMC7101083
PMID: 32257161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors completed the 
ICMJE Unified Competing Interest form (available upon request from the 
corresponding author), and declare no conflicts of interest.


809. Mol Clin Oncol. 2020 May;12(5):399-402. doi: 10.3892/mco.2020.2008. Epub
2020  Feb 27.

Surgery for spinal metastatic tumors: Prognostication systems in clinical 
practice (Review).

Alpantaki K(1), Ioannidis A(2), Raptis K(3), Spartalis E(4), Koutserimpas C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, 'Venizeleion' General Hospital, Heraklion, Crete 
71409, Greece.
(2)Department of General, Laparoscopic, Oncologic and Robotic Surgery, Athens 
Medical Center, Athens 15125, Greece.
(3)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, '251' Hellenic Air Force General 
Hospital, Athens 11525, Greece.
(4)Laboratory of Experimental Surgery and Surgical Research, University of 
Athens Medical School, Athens 11527, Greece.

The management of spinal metastatic tumors is a matter of increasing clinical 
importance, as 20-40% of cancer patients have evidence of vertebral metastatic 
disease at the time of their passing and up to 20% develop neurological symptoms 
due to epidural spinal cord compression. The treatment of patients with spinal 
metastases is challenging, albeit palliative, and it requires a 
multidisciplinary approach. Accurate prediction of life expectancy of patients 
with cancer is of paramount importance for therapeutic strategy. Prognostication 
scoring systems were developed to aid clinicians to follow a more objective, 
safe and evidence-based approach with therapy selection and surgical 
intervention indications. In this context, the aim of the present review was to 
briefly discuss the evolution of scoring systems since their introduction in the 
early 90s until today, their advantages and shortcomings, and the future 
requirements for personalized scoring in the era of modern oncology.

Copyright © 2020, Spandidos Publications.

DOI: 10.3892/mco.2020.2008
PMCID: PMC7087463
PMID: 32257194


810. R Soc Open Sci. 2020 Feb 12;7(2):190725. doi: 10.1098/rsos.190725.
eCollection  2020 Feb.

Cultural prerequisites of socioeconomic development.

Ruck DJ(1)(2)(3), Bentley RA(1)(2), Lawson DJ(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Tennessee, 1621 Cumberland Avenue, 
Knoxville, TN 37996, USA.
(2)Center for the Dynamics of Social Complexity, University of Tennessee, 403B 
Austin Peay, Knoxville, TN 37996, USA.
(3)College of Communication and Information, University of Tennessee, 1345 
Circle Park Drive, Knoxville, TN 37996, USA.
(4)Population Health Science Institute, University of Bristol, Oakfield Grove, 
Bristol BS8 2BN, UK.
(5)Institute of Statistical Sciences, University of Bristol, Fry Building, 
Woodland Road, Bristol BS8 1TH, UK.

In the centuries since the enlightenment, the world has seen an increase in 
socioeconomic development, measured as increased life expectancy, education, 
economic development and democracy. While the co-occurrence of these features 
among nations is well documented, little is known about their origins or 
co-evolution. Here, we compare this growth of prosperity in nations to the 
historical record of cultural values in the twentieth century, derived from 
global survey data. We find that two cultural factors, secular-rationality and 
cosmopolitanism, predict future increases in GDP per capita, democratization and 
secondary education enrollment. The converse is not true, however, which 
indicates that secular-rationality and cosmopolitanism are among the 
preconditions for socioeconomic development to emerge.

© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1098/rsos.190725
PMCID: PMC7062048
PMID: 32257300

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
financial interests.


811. BMJ Glob Health. 2020 Mar 19;5(3):e002087. doi: 10.1136/bmjgh-2019-002087. 
eCollection 2020.

Towards universal health coverage: achievements and challenges of 10 years of 
healthcare reform in China.

Tao W(#)(1), Zeng Z(#)(1), Dang H(2), Li P(1), Chuong L(3), Yue D(3), Wen J(1), 
Zhao R(4), Li W(5), Kominski G(3)(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hospital Management, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, China.
(2)Research Center of Tradtional Chinese Medicine, China Academy of Chinese 
Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Health Policy and Management, Fielding School of Public Health, 
University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), Los Angeles, California, USA.
(4)Department of drug policy and evaluation research, China National Health 
Development Research Center, Beijing, China.
(5)President's Office, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(6)UCLA Center for Health Policy Research, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Universal health coverage (UHC) has been identified as a priority for the global 
health agenda. In 2009, the Chinese government launched a new round of 
healthcare reform towards UHC, aiming to provide universal coverage of basic 
healthcare by the end of 2020. We conducted a secondary data analysis and 
combined it with a literature review, analysing the overview of UHC in China 
with regard to financial protection, coverage of health services and the 
reported coverage of the WHO and the World Bank UHC indicators. The results 
include the following: out-of-pocket expenditures as a percentage of current 
health expenditures in China have dropped dramatically from 60.13% in 2000 to 
35.91% in 2016; the health insurance coverage of the total population jumped 
from 22.1% in 2003 to 95.1% in 2013; the average life expectancy increased from 
72.0 to 76.4, maternal mortality dropped from 59 to 29 per 100 000 live births, 
the under-5 mortality rate dropped from 36.8 to 9.3 per 1000 live births, and 
neonatal mortality dropped from 21.4 to 4.7 per 1000 live births between 2000 
and 2017; and so on. Our findings show that while China appears to be well on 
the path to UHC, there are identifiable gaps in service quality and a 
requirement for ongoing strengthening of financial protections. Some of the key 
challenges remain to be faced, such as the fragmented and inequitable health 
delivery system, and the increasing demand for high-quality and value-based 
service delivery. Given that China has committed to achieving UHC and 'Healthy 
China 2030', the evidence from this study can be suggestive of furthering on in 
the UHC journey and taking the policy steps necessary to secure change.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjgh-2019-002087
PMCID: PMC7103842
PMID: 32257401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


812. Front Cell Dev Biol. 2020 Mar 17;8:155. doi: 10.3389/fcell.2020.00155. 
eCollection 2020.

Progress Toward Identifying Exact Proxies for Predicting Response to 
Immunotherapies.

Filipovic A(1), Miller G(2), Bolen J(1).

Author information:
(1)PureTech Health PLC, Boston, MA, United States.
(2)New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY, United States.

Clinical value and utility of checkpoint inhibitors, a drug class targeting 
adaptive immune suppression pathways (PD-1, PDL-1, and CTLA-4), is growing 
rapidly and maintains status of a landmark achievement in oncology. Their 
efficacy has transformed life expectancy in multiple deadly cancer types 
(melanoma, lung cancer, renal/urothelial carcinoma, certain colorectal cancers, 
lymphomas, etc.). Despite significant clinical development efforts, therapeutic 
indication of approved checkpoint inhibitors are not as wide as the oncology 
community and patients would like them to be, potentially bringing into question 
their universal efficacy across tumor histologies. With the main goal of 
expanding immunotherapy applications, identifying of biomarkers to accurately 
predict therapeutic response and treatment related side-effects are a paramount 
need in the field. Specificities surrounding checkpoint inhibitors in clinic, 
such as unexpected tumor response patterns (pseudo- and hyper-progression), late 
responders, as well as specific immune mediated toxicities, complicate the 
management of patients. They stem from the complexities and dynamics of the 
tumor/host immune interactions, as well as baseline tumor biology. Search for 
clinically effective biomarkers therefore calls for a holistic approach, rather 
than implementation of a single analyte. The goal is to achieve dynamic and 
comprehensive acquisition, analyses and interpretation of immunological and 
biologic information about the tumor and the immune system, and to compute these 
parameters into an actionable, maximally predictive value at the individual 
patient level. Limitation delaying swift incorporation of validated 
immuno-oncology biomarkers span from standardized biospecimens acquisition and 
processing, selection of proficient biomarker discovery and validation methods, 
to establishing multidisciplinary consortiums and data sharing platforms. 
Multi-disciplinary efforts have already yielded some approved (PDL-1 and 
MSI-status) and other advanced tests (TMB, neoantigen pattern, and TIL 
infiltration rate). Importantly, clinical trial taskforces now recognize the 
imperative of the biomarker-driven trial design and execution, to enable 
translating biomarker discoveries into the clinical setting. This will ensure we 
utilize the "conspiracy" between the peripheral and intra-tumoral dynamic 
markers in shaping responses to checkpoint blockade, for the ultimate patient 
benefit.

Copyright © 2020 Filipovic, Miller and Bolen.

DOI: 10.3389/fcell.2020.00155
PMCID: PMC7092703
PMID: 32258034


813. Porto Biomed J. 2016 May-Jun;1(2):72-76. doi: 10.1016/j.pbj.2015.07.002.
Epub  2016 May 1.

Palliative care and the Portuguese health system.

da Cruz MB(1), Nunes R(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Ciências Sociais e Saúde, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade 
do Porto, Porto, Portugal.

We are currently witnessing the decline of acute diseases and the emergence of 
chronic degenerative diseases. In Portugal, the cumulative effect of the 
reduction in mortality and birth rates has resulted in an ageing population. The 
ageing population will create in the medium term a new dynamic of recruitment in 
various sectors, including health. With increased life expectancy, the care of 
chronically ill has become an important area in the context of health services, 
since they need to be increasingly more focused on the need to provide 
palliative rather than curative care. Rationalization of resources must be a 
goal so that waste is minimized. The present model of palliative care ceases to 
respond to the pressing needs. What to do, to adapt to the changes brought by 
demographic change and by innovation? What models should be adopted for better 
resource optimization in palliative care? A literature review was carried out, 
including articles that compared the main differences between hospital and home 
care. Portugal has a multi-sectoral palliative care model, in light of what 
happens in reference countries, however, a better rationalization of resources 
will be required in order to ensure optimization in the distribution of 
patients. We also conclude that there is a gap between the patient's will and 
what is recommended. To respect the individual preferences of the patient, it is 
necessary to develop quality home-based palliative care services, focusing on 
training and the expansion of field teams.

Copyright 2016 PBJ-Associação Porto Biomedical/Porto Biomedical Society.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbj.2015.07.002
PMCID: PMC6806950
PMID: 32258553

Conflict of interest statement: No conflict of interests was declared by the 
authors.


814. J Frailty Aging. 2020;9(2):111-117. doi: 10.14283/jfa.2020.13.

Multi-Component Exercise with High-Intensity, Free-Weight, Functional Resistance 
Training in Pre-Frail Females: A Quasi-Experimental, Pilot Study.

Bray NW(1), Jones GJ, Rush KL, Jones CA, Jakobi JM.

Author information:
(1)Jennifer M. Jakobi, School of Health and Exercise Sciences, Faculty of Health 
and Social Development, University of British Columbia Okanagan, Kelowna, 
British Columbia, Canada, V1V 1V7, jennifer.jakobi@ubc.ca.

BACKGROUND: No study has performed an exercise intervention that included 
high-intensity, free-weight, functional resistance training, and assessed 
frailty status as an inclusion criteria and outcome measure via original, 
standardized tools, in pre-frail females.
OBJECTIVES: Determine if the intervention strategy is not only feasible and 
safe, but can also improve frailty status, functional task performance, and 
muscle strength.
DESIGN: Pilot, quasi-experimental.
SETTING: Community.
PARTICIPANTS: 20 older-adults with pre-frailty characteristics.
INTERVENTION: 12-weeks (3 days/week, 45-60 minutes/session) of multi-component 
exercise, inclusive of aerobic, resistance, balance and flexibility exercises. 
The crux of the program was balance and resistance exercises, the latter 
utilized high-intensity, free-weight, functional resistance training. The 
control group maintained their usual care.
MEASUREMENTS: 1) Feasibility and safety (dropout, adherence, and adverse event); 
2) Frailty (Frailty Phenotype, Clinical Frailty Scale, and gait speed); 3) 
Functional task performance (grip strength and sit-to-stand time); and 4) 
Isometric and isotonic strength of the knee extensors and elbow flexors.
RESULTS: No participants dropped out of the intervention or experienced an 
adverse event, and adherence averaged 88.3%. The exercise group became less 
frail, whereas the control group became more frail. There was a significant 
within-group improvement in exercise participants gait speed (p ≤ 0.01, +0.24 
m/sec), grip strength (p ≤ 0.01, +3.9 kg), and sit-to-stand time (p ≤ 0.01, -5.0 
sec). There was a significant within-group improvement in exercise participants 
knee extension isometric torque (p ≤ 0.05, +7.4 Nm) and isotonic velocity (p = ≤ 
0.01, +37.5 ˚/sec). Elbow flexion isotonic velocity significantly declined 
within the control group (p ≤ 0.01, -20.2 ˚/sec) and demonstrated a significant 
between-group difference (p ≤ 0.05, 40.73 ˚/sec) post-intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: The intervention strategy appears to be feasible and safe, and may 
also improve frailty status, functional task performance, and muscle strength. 
These results help calculate effect size for a future randomized controlled 
trial.

DOI: 10.14283/jfa.2020.13
PMID: 32259186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


815. Molecules. 2020 Apr 3;25(7):1645. doi: 10.3390/molecules25071645.

Discovery, Synthesis, and Scale-up of Efficient Palladium Catalysts Useful for 
the Modification of Nucleosides and Heteroarenes.

Bhilare S(1), Shet H(2), Sanghvi YS(3), Kapdi AR(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Institute of Chemical Technology, Nathalal Parekh 
Road, Matunga, Mumbai 400019, India.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Institute of Chemical Technology-Indian Oil Odisha 
Campus, IIT Kharagpur Extension Centre, MouzaSamantpuri, Bhubaneswar 751013, 
Odisha, India.
(3)Rasayan Inc., 2802, Crystal Ridge Road, Encinitas, CA 92024-6615, USA.

Nucleic acid derivatives are imperative biomolecules and are involved in life 
governing processes. The chemical modification of nucleic acid is a fascinating 
area for researchers due to the potential activity exhibited as antiviral and 
antitumor agents. In addition, these molecules are also of interest toward 
conducting useful biochemical, pharmaceutical, and mutagenic study. For 
accessing such synthetically useful structures and features, transition-metal 
catalyzed processes have been proven over the years to be an excellent tool for 
carrying out the various transformations with ease and under mild reaction 
conditions. Amidst various transition-metal catalyzed processes available for 
nucleoside modification, Pd-catalyzed cross-coupling reactions have proven to be 
perhaps the most efficient, successful, and broadly applicable reactions in both 
academia and industry. Pd-catalyzed C-C and C-heteroatom bond forming reactions 
have been widely used for the modification of the heterocyclic moiety in the 
nucleosides, although a single catalyst system that could address all the 
different requirements for nucleoside modifications isvery rare or non-existent. 
With this in mind, we present herein a review showcasing the recent developments 
and improvements from our research groups toward the development of Pd-catalyzed 
strategies including drug synthesis using a single efficient catalyst system for 
the modification of nucleosides and other heterocycles. The review also 
highlights the improvement in conditions or the yield of various bio-active 
nucleosides or commercial drugs possessing the nucleoside structural core. Scale 
ups wherever performed (up to 100 g) of molecules of commercial importance have 
also been disclosed.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25071645
PMCID: PMC7181029
PMID: 32260100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


816. Antioxidants (Basel). 2020 Apr 3;9(4):300. doi: 10.3390/antiox9040300.

Variation in Macronutrient Content, Phytochemical Constitution and In Vitro 
Antioxidant Capacity of Green and Red Butterhead Lettuce Dictated by Different 
Developmental Stages of Harvest Maturity.

El-Nakhel C(1), Pannico A(1), Graziani G(2), Kyriacou MC(3), Giordano M(1), 
Ritieni A(2), De Pascale S(1), Rouphael Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Sciences, University of Naples Federico II, 80055 
Portici, Italy.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, University of Naples Federico II, 80131 Naples, 
Italy.
(3)Department of Vegetable Crops, Agricultural Research Institute, 1516 Nicosia, 
Cyprus.

Rising life expectancy and the demanding modern lifestyle drive the growing 
appeal of healthy and balanced diets centered on vegetable and fruit 
consumption. Functional, phytonutrient-packed and principally raw food is in 
high demand. Microgreens constitute such a novel functional food that combines a 
high sensory and bioactive value, which invites comparison to their mature-leaf 
counterparts. For this purpose, a controlled environment chamber experiment was 
carried out to compare the mineral, phytochemical and antioxidant capacity 
attributes of two-pigmented Lactuca sativa L. var. capitata cultivars (green and 
red Salanova®) harvested at the microgreens and the mature-leaf stage. 
Macronutrients were assessed through ion chromatography, while carotenoids and 
polyphenols were assessed and quantified through HPLC-DAD and UHPLC-Q-Orbitrap 
HRMS, respectively. Calcium and magnesium were higher in microgreens 
irrespective of the cultivar; conversely, phosphorous, potassium and nitrate 
where higher in mature leaves. All pigments including chlorophyll, lutein and 
β-carotene augmented at advanced maturity stage and were more concentrated in 
the red pigmented cultivar at both stages. Total polyphenols accumulated more 
densely in red Salanova, particularly in the microgreens stage; whereas, in 
green Salanova, the accumulation was significant but less pronounced in the 
mcirogreens stage. Chlorogenic acid, quercetin malonyl glucoside, rutin and 
coumaroyl quinic acid were the most concentrated phenolic acids in microgreens, 
while feruloyl tartaric acid was predominant in mature leaves. Finally, when a 
high carotenoids content is sought, mature lettuce leaves should be the prime 
culinary choice, whereas high polyphenolic content is dictated by both the 
cultivar and the harvest stage, with red Salanova microgreens being the most 
nutrient-packed choice.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox9040300
PMCID: PMC7222179
PMID: 32260224

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


817. J Mater Chem B. 2013 Sep 28;1(36):4555-4562. doi: 10.1039/c3tb20790k. Epub
2013  Aug 8.

A phase diagram of neutral polyampholyte - from solution to tough hydrogel.

Ihsan AB (1), Sun TL , Kuroda S , Haque MA , Kurokawa T , Nakajima T , Gong JP .

Author information:
(1)Transdisciplinary Life Science Course, Graduate School of Life Science, 
Hokkaido University, Sapporo 060-0810, Japan.

Our recent study has revealed that neutral polyampholytes form tough physical 
hydrogels above a critical concentration Cm,c by forming ionic bonds of wide 
strength distribution. In this work, we systematically investigate the behavior 
of a polyampholyte system, poly(NaSS-co-DMAEA-Q), randomly copolymerized from 
oppositely charged monomers, sodium p-styrenesulfonate (NaSS) and 
acryloyloxethyltrimethylammonium chloride (DMAEA-Q) without and with a slight 
chemical cross-linking. A phase diagram of formulation has been constructed in 
the space of monomer concentration Cm and cross-linker density CMBAA. Three 
phases are observed for the as-synthesized samples: homogeneous solution at 
dilute Cm, phase separation at semi-dilute Cm, and homogenous gel at 
concentrated Cm. Above a critical Cm,c, the polyampholyte forms a supramolecular 
hydrogel with high toughness by dialysis of the mobile counter-ions, which 
substantially stabilizes both the intra- and inter chain ionic bonds. The 
presence of the chemical cross-linker (CMBAA > 0) brings about a shift of the 
tough gel phase to lower Cm,c. The tough polyampholyte gel, containing ∼50 wt% 
water, is highly stretchable and tough, exhibits fracture stress of σb∼ 0.4 MPa, 
fracture strain of εb∼ 30, and the work of extension at fracture Wext∼ 4 MJ m-3. 
These values are at the level of most tough soft materials. Owing to the 
reversible ion bonds, the poly(NaSS-co-DMAEA-Q) gels also exhibit complete 
self-recovery (100%) and high fatigue resistance upon repeated large 
deformation.

DOI: 10.1039/c3tb20790k
PMID: 32261198


818. J Mater Chem B. 2014 Oct 7;2(37):6157-6182. doi: 10.1039/c4tb00548a. Epub
2014  Aug 8.

Drug-releasing implants: current progress, challenges and perspectives.

Santos A (1), Sinn Aw M , Bariana M , Kumeria T , Wang Y , Losic D .

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical Engineering, The University of Adelaide, 5005 Adelaide, 
Australia. dusan.losic@adelaide.edu.au.

The need for more efficient drug delivery strategies to treat resilient diseases 
and the rise of micro and nanotechnology have led to the development of more 
sophisticated drug-releasing implants with improved capabilities and 
performances for localised and controlled therapies. In recent years, 
implantable drug-releasing systems have emerged as an outstanding alternative to 
conventional clinical therapies. This new breed of implants has shown promising 
capabilities to overcome the inherent problems of conventional implants and 
therapies, making clinical treatments more efficient with minimal side effects. 
Recent clinical trials have demonstrated that this technology can improve the 
life of patients and increase their life expectancy. Within this context, this 
review is aimed at highlighting the different types and concepts of 
drug-releasing implants incorporating new nanomaterials and nanotechnology-based 
devices. Furthermore, the principles on which these drug-releasing implants are 
based as well as their advantages and limitations are discussed in detail. 
Finally, we provide a future perspective in the development of implantable 
clinical drug-delivery systems based on micro and nanotechnology.

DOI: 10.1039/c4tb00548a
PMID: 32262134


819. J Mater Chem B. 2016 Feb 14;4(6):1166-1174. doi: 10.1039/c5tb01917f. Epub
2016  Jan 14.

Synthesis, characterization, antibacterial activity and cytotoxicity of hollow 
TiO(2)-coated CeO(2) nanocontainers encapsulating silver nanoparticles for 
controlled silver release.

Gagnon J (1), Clift MJD , Vanhecke D , Widnersson IE , Abram SL , Petri-Fink A , 
Caruso RA , Rothen-Rutishauser B , Fromm KM .

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Fribourg Center for Nanomaterials, University of 
Fribourg, Chemin du Musée 9, 1700 Fribourg, Switzerland. 
katharina.fromm@unifr.ch jacinthe.gagnon@iaf.inrs.ca.

Biomaterials as implants are being applied more extensively in medicine due to 
their on-going development and associated improvements, and the increase in 
human life expectancy. Nonetheless, biomaterial-related infections, as well as 
propagating bacterial resistance, remain significant issues. Therefore, there is 
a growing interest for silver-based drugs because of their efficient and 
broad-range antimicrobial activity and low toxicity to humans. Most 
newly-developed silver-based drugs have an extremely fast silver-ion release, 
increasing adverse biological impact to the surrounding tissue and achieving 
only short-term antimicrobial activity. Nanoencapsulation of these drugs is 
hypothesized as beneficial for controlling silver release, and thus is the aim 
of the present study. Initially, an amorphous or crystalline (anatase) titania 
(TiO2) coating was synthesized around silver nanoparticle-containing (AgNP) 
ceria (CeO2) nanocontainers using a sonication method forming AgNP/CeO2/TiO2 
nanocontainers. These nanocontainers were characterized by high-resolution 
transmission electron microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, powder X-ray 
diffraction, gas sorption experiments and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy. 
Silver release, monitored by using inductively coupled plasma optical emission 
spectroscopy, showed that these containers prevented silver release in water at 
neutral pH, and released the silver in concentrated nitric acid solution (pH = 
1.1). The AgNP/CeO2/TiO2 nanocontainers showed an antibacterial activity against 
E. coli, however a concentration-dependent cytotoxicity towards a model 
epithelial barrier cell type (A549 cells) was observed. These nanocontainers 
offer the concept of potentially controlling silver delivery for the prevention 
of implant-associated infections.

DOI: 10.1039/c5tb01917f
PMID: 32263009


820. J Mater Chem B. 2017 Feb 28;5(8):1650-1657. doi: 10.1039/c7tb00112f. Epub
2017  Feb 8.

Polyyne bridged AIE luminogens with red emission: design, synthesis, properties 
and applications.

Zhao Z (1), Su H , Zhang P , Cai Y , Kwok RTK , Chen Y , He Z , Gu X , He X , 
Sung HHY , Willimas ID , Lam JWY , Zhang Z , Tang BZ .

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Hong Kong Branch of Chinese National Engineering 
Research Center for Tissue Restoration and Reconstruction, Institute of 
Molecular Functional Materials, Institute for Advanced Study, State Key 
Laboratory of neuroscience, Division of Biomedical Engineering, and Division of 
Life Science, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Clear Water 
Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong, China. tangbenz@ust.hk.

Construction of a donor-acceptor (D-A) structure and extension of π-conjugation 
are the commonly used strategies to shift the emission of luminophores to the 
red region. However, molecules with high conjugation and a strong D-A effect 
tend to show weak emission due to the severe π-π interactions and twisted 
intramolecular charge transfer (TICT) effects. The turn-on characteristic of AIE 
luminogens (AIEgens) will also be lost due to the conjugation-enhanced emission 
in the solution state. Herein, a polyyne-bridged AIE luminogen (2TPE-4E) with 
long wavelength absorption and red emission has been afforded. Despite its large 
π-conjugation, 2TPE-4E suffers from no emission quenching resulted from strong 
π-π interactions and twisted intramolecular charge transfer effects. The strong 
red emission and the high photostability of 2TPE-4E inspired us to use it for 
targeted-imaging of cancer cells and monitoring the receptor mediated 
endocytosis process.

DOI: 10.1039/c7tb00112f
PMID: 32263937


821. J Mater Chem B. 2017 Sep 28;5(36):7644-7660. doi: 10.1039/c6tb03248f. Epub
2017  Sep 8.

Biocompatible and stable magnetosome minerals coated with poly-l-lysine, citric 
acid, oleic acid, and carboxy-methyl-dextran for application in the magnetic 
hyperthermia treatment of tumors.

Mandawala C (1), Chebbi I , Durand-Dubief M , Le Fèvre R , Hamdous Y , Guyot F , 
Alphandéry E .

Author information:
(1)Nanobacterie SARL, 36 boulevard Flandrin, 75016, Paris, France.

Magnetic hyperthermia, in which magnetic nanoparticles are introduced into 
tumors and exposed to an alternating magnetic field (AMF), appears to be 
promising since it can lead to increased life expectancy in patients. Its 
efficacy can be further improved by using biocompatible iron oxide magnetosome 
minerals with better crystallinity and magnetic properties compared with 
chemically synthesized nanoparticles (IONP - Iron Oxide Nanoparticles). To 
fabricate such minerals, magnetosomes are first isolated from MSR-1 
magnetotactic bacteria, purified to remove potentially toxic organic bacterial 
residues and stabilized with poly-l-lysine (N-PLL), citric acid (N-CA), oleic 
acid (N-OA), or carboxy-methyl-dextran (N-CMD). The different coated 
nanoparticles appear to be composed of a cubo-octahedral mineral core surrounded 
by a coating of different thickness, composition, and charge, and to be 
organized in chains of various lengths. The in vitro anti-tumor and heating 
efficacies of these nanoparticles were examined by bringing them into contact 
with GL-261 glioblastoma cells and by applying an AMF. This led to a specific 
absorption rate of 89-196 W gFe -1, measured using an AMF of 198 kHz and 34-47 
mT, and to percentages of tumor cell destruction due to the exposure of the 
nanoparticles to the AMF of 10 ± 3% to 43 ± 3% depending on the coating agent. 
These results show the potential of this protocol for the tumor treatment by 
magnetic hyperthermia.

DOI: 10.1039/c6tb03248f
PMID: 32264239


822. Circulation. 2020 Jul 14;142(2):161-174. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.119.042573.  Epub 2020 Apr 8.

Cardiac Overexpression of PDE4B Blunts β-Adrenergic Response and Maladaptive 
Remodeling in Heart Failure.

Karam S(#)(1), Margaria JP(#), Bourcier A(#)(1), Mika D(1), Varin A(1), Bedioune 
I(1), Lindner M(1), Bouadjel K(1), Dessillons M(1), Gaudin F(2), Lefebvre F(1), 
Mateo P(1), Lechène P(1), Gomez S(1), Domergue V(2), Robert P(2), Coquard C(1), 
Algalarrondo V(1), Samuel JL(3), Michel JB(4)(5), Charpentier F(6), Ghigo A(4), 
Hirsch E(4), Fischmeister R(1), Leroy J(1), Vandecasteele G(1).

Author information:
(1)Université Paris-Saclay, Inserm, Signaling and Cardiovascular 
Pathophysiology, UMR-S 1180, 92296 Châtenay-Malabry, France (S.K., A.R., D.M., 
A.V., I.B., M.L., K.B., M.D., F.L., P.M., P.L., S.G., C.C., V.A., R.F., J.L., 
G.V.).
(2)Université Paris-Saclay, Inserm, UMS-IPSIT, 92296 Châtenay-Malabry, France 
(F.G., V.D., P.R.).
(3)UMR-S 942, Inserm, Paris University, 75010 Paris, France (J.-L.S.).
(4)Department of Molecular Biotechnology and Health Sciences, Molecular 
Biotechnology Center, University di Torino, 10126 Torino, Italy (J.P.M., A.G., 
E.H.).
(5)UMR-S 1148, INSERM, Paris University, X. Bichat hospital, 75018 Paris, France 
(J.-B.M.).
(6)Institut du thorax, Inserm, CNRS, Univ. Nantes, 8 quai Moncousu, 44007 Nantes 
cedex 1, France (F.C.).
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Circulation. 2021 Jan 26;143(4):e26-e27.
    Circulation. 2021 Jan 26;143(4):e24-e25.

BACKGROUND: The cyclic AMP (adenosine monophosphate; cAMP)-hydrolyzing protein 
PDE4B (phosphodiesterase 4B) is a key negative regulator of cardiac β-adrenergic 
receptor stimulation. PDE4B deficiency leads to abnormal Ca2+ handling and PDE4B 
is decreased in pressure overload hypertrophy, suggesting that increasing PDE4B 
in the heart is beneficial in heart failure.
METHODS: We measured PDE4B expression in human cardiac tissues and developed 2 
transgenic mouse lines with cardiomyocyte-specific overexpression of PDE4B and 
an adeno-associated virus serotype 9 encoding PDE4B. Myocardial structure and 
function were evaluated by echocardiography, ECG, and in Langendorff-perfused 
hearts. Also, cAMP and PKA (cAMP dependent protein kinase) activity were 
monitored by Förster resonance energy transfer, L-type Ca2+ current by 
whole-cell patch-clamp, and cardiomyocyte shortening and Ca2+ transients with an 
Ionoptix system. Heart failure was induced by 2 weeks infusion of isoproterenol 
or transverse aortic constriction. Cardiac remodeling was evaluated by serial 
echocardiography, morphometric analysis, and histology.
RESULTS: PDE4B protein was decreased in human failing hearts. The first 
PDE4B-transgenic mouse line (TG15) had a ≈15-fold increase in cardiac cAMP-PDE 
activity and a ≈30% decrease in cAMP content and fractional shortening 
associated with a mild cardiac hypertrophy that resorbed with age. Basal ex vivo 
myocardial function was unchanged, but β-adrenergic receptor stimulation of 
cardiac inotropy, cAMP, PKA, L-type Ca2+ current, Ca2+ transients, and cell 
contraction were blunted. Endurance capacity and life expectancy were normal. 
Moreover, these mice were protected from systolic dysfunction, hypertrophy, lung 
congestion, and fibrosis induced by chronic isoproterenol treatment. In the 
second PDE4B-transgenic mouse line (TG50), markedly higher PDE4B overexpression, 
resulting in a ≈50-fold increase in cardiac cAMP-PDE activity caused a ≈50% 
decrease in fractional shortening, hypertrophy, dilatation, and premature death. 
In contrast, mice injected with adeno-associated virus serotype 9 encoding PDE4B 
(1012 viral particles/mouse) had a ≈50% increase in cardiac cAMP-PDE activity, 
which did not modify basal cardiac function but efficiently prevented systolic 
dysfunction, apoptosis, and fibrosis, while attenuating hypertrophy induced by 
chronic isoproterenol infusion. Similarly, adeno-associated virus serotype 9 
encoding PDE4B slowed contractile deterioration, attenuated hypertrophy and lung 
congestion, and prevented apoptosis and fibrotic remodeling in transverse aortic 
constriction.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that a moderate increase in PDE4B is 
cardioprotective and suggest that cardiac gene therapy with PDE4B might 
constitute a new promising approach to treat heart failure.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.119.042573
PMID: 32264695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Am J Med Sci. 2020 May;359(5):257-265. doi: 10.1016/j.amjms.2020.02.004.
Epub  2020 Feb 21.

Estimating the Economic Burden of Acute Myocardial Infarction in the US: 12 Year 
National Data.

Bishu KG(1), Lekoubou A(2), Kirkland E(3), Schumann SO(3), Schreiner A(3), 
Heincelman M(3), Moran WP(3), Mauldin PD(4).

Author information:
(1)Section of Health Systems Research and Policy, Medical University of South 
Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina; Division of General Internal Medicine and 
Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, Medical University of South Carolina, 
Charleston, South Carolina; Charleston Health Equity and Rural Outreach 
Innovation Center (HEROIC), Ralph H. Johnson VA Medical Center, Charleston, 
South Carolina. Electronic address: bishu@musc.edu.
(2)Department of Neurology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, 
South Carolina.
(3)Division of General Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, 
Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina.
(4)Section of Health Systems Research and Policy, Medical University of South 
Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina; Division of General Internal Medicine and 
Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, Medical University of South Carolina, 
Charleston, South Carolina.

Comment in
    Am J Med Sci. 2020 May;359(5):255-256.

BACKGROUND: Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) carries a substantial mortality 
and morbidity burden. The purpose of this study is to provide annual mean cost 
per patient and national level estimates of direct and indirect costs (lost 
productivity from morbidity and premature mortality) associated with AMI.
METHODS: Nationally representative data spanning 12 years (2003-2014) with a 
sample of 324,869 patients with AMI from the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey 
(MEPS) were analyzed. A novel 2-part model was used to examine the excess direct 
cost associated with AMI, controlling for covariates. To estimate lost 
productivity from morbidity, an adjusted Generalized Linear Model was used for 
the differential in wage earnings between participants with and without AMI. 
Lost productivity from premature mortality was estimated based on published 
data.
RESULTS: The total annual cost of AMI in 2016 dollars was estimated to be $84.9 
billion, including $29.8 billion in excess direct medical expenditures, $14.6 
billion in lost productivity from morbidity and $40.5 billion in lost 
productivity from premature mortality between 2003 and 2014. In the adjusted 
regression, the overall excess direct medical expenditure of AMI was $7,076 (95% 
confidence interval [CI] $6,028-$8,125) higher than those without AMI. After 
adjustment, annual wages for patients with AMI were $10,166 (95% CI -$12,985 to 
-$7,347) lower and annual missed work days were 5.9 days (95% CI 3.57-8.27) 
higher than those without AMI.
CONCLUSIONS: The study finds that the economic burden of AMI is substantial, for 
which effective prevention could result in significant health and productivity 
cost savings.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjms.2020.02.004
PMID: 32265010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2020 Mar 24;11:142. doi:
10.3389/fendo.2020.00142.  eCollection 2020.

Timing of the Infancy-Childhood Growth Transition in Rural Gambia.

Bernstein RM(1)(2), O'Connor GK(3), Vance EA(3), Affara N(4), Drammeh S(5), 
Dunger DB(6), Faal A(5), Ong KK(6)(7), Sosseh F(5), Prentice AM(5), Moore 
SE(5)(8).

Author information:
(1)Growth and Development Lab, Department of Anthropology, University of 
Colorado, Boulder, CO, United States.
(2)Institute of Behavioral Science, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO, United 
States.
(3)Laboratory for Interdisciplinary Statistical Analysis (LISA), Department of 
Applied Mathematics, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO, United States.
(4)Department of Pathology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(5)MRC Unit The Gambia, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Banjul, 
Gambia.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, University of Cambridge School of Clinical 
Medicine, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(7)MRC Epidemiology Unit, University of Cambridge School of Clinical Medicine, 
Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(8)Department of Women and Children's Health, King's College London, London, 
United Kingdom.

The Karlberg model of human growth describes the infancy, childhood, and puberty 
(ICP) stages as continuous and overlapping, and defined by transitions driven by 
sequential additional effects of several endocrine factors that shape the growth 
trajectory and resultant adult size. Previous research has suggested that a 
delayed transition from the infancy to the childhood growth stage contributes to 
sub-optimal growth outcomes. A new method developed to analyze the structure of 
centile crossing in early life has emerged as a potential tool for identifying 
the infancy-childhood transition (ICT), through quantifying patterns of adjacent 
monthly weight-for-age z-score (WAZ) deviation correlations. Using this method, 
the infancy-childhood transition was identified as taking place at around 12 
months of age in two cohorts of UK infants. Here, we apply this method to data 
collected as part of a longitudinal growth study in rural Gambia [the Hormonal 
and Epigenetic Regulators of Growth, or HERO-G study, N = 212 (F = 99, M = 
113)], in order to identify the ICT and assess whether timing of this transition 
differs across groups based on sex or birth seasonality. We calculated Pearson 
correlation coefficients for adjacent monthly WAZ score deviations. Based on the 
patterns of change in the correlation structure over time, our results suggest 
that the infancy-childhood transition occurs at around 9 months of age in rural 
Gambian infants. This points to an accelerated ICT compared to UK infants, 
rather than a delayed ICT. A comparatively later transition, seen in UK infants, 
allows maximal extension of the high rates of growth during the infancy stage; 
an earlier transition as seen in Gambian infants cuts short this period of rapid 
growth, potentially impacting on growth outcomes in childhood while diverting 
energy into other processes critical to responses to acute infectious 
challenges. Growth in later developmental stages in this population offers an 
extended window for catch-up.

Copyright © 2020 Bernstein, O'Connor, Vance, Affara, Drammeh, Dunger, Faal, Ong, 
Sosseh, Prentice and Moore.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2020.00142
PMCID: PMC7105771
PMID: 32265838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Drugs. 2020 May;80(7):719-727. doi: 10.1007/s40265-020-01297-w.

Eculizumab: A Review in Neuromyelitis Optica Spectrum Disorder.

Frampton JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Springer Nature, Mairangi Bay, Private Bag 65901, Auckland, 0754, New 
Zealand. demail@springer.com.

Erratum in
    Drugs. 2020 Apr 21;:
    Drugs. 2020 Apr 22;:

The terminal complement protein (C5) inhibitor eculizumab (Soliris®) is the 
first agent to be specifically approved in the EU, USA, Canada and Japan for the 
treatment of neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD) in adults who are 
aquaporin-4 water channel autoantibody (AQP4-IgG) seropositive and (in the EU 
only) for those with a relapsing course of disease. In the phase III PREVENT 
trial, eculizumab significantly reduced the risk of adjudicated relapse relative 
to placebo in patients with AQP4-IgG-seropositive NMOSD, approximately a quarter 
of whom did not receive concomitant immunosuppressive therapies. The beneficial 
effect of eculizumab was seen across all patient subgroups analysed and was 
accompanied by improvements in neurological and functional disability 
assessments, as well as generic health-related quality of life measures; it was 
sustained through 4 years of treatment, according to combined data from the 
PREVENT trial and an interim analysis of its ongoing open-label extension study. 
The safety profile of eculizumab in AQP4-IgG-seropositive NMOSD was consistent 
with that seen for the drug in other approved indications. Thus, eculizumab 
provides an effective, generally well tolerated and approved treatment option 
for this rare, disabling and potentially life-threatening condition.

DOI: 10.1007/s40265-020-01297-w
PMCID: PMC7183484
PMID: 32266705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: James Frampton is a salaried employee of Adis 
International Ltd/Springer Nature, is responsible for the article content and 
declares no relevant conflicts of interest.


826. J Gynecol Oncol. 2020 May;31(3):e49. doi: 10.3802/jgo.2020.31.e49. Epub 2020
Jan  21.

Nerve-sparing radical hysterectomy in the precision surgery for cervical cancer.

Sakuragi N(1)(2), Murakami G(3)(4), Konno Y(1), Kaneuchi M(5), Watari H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Graduate School of Medicine, 
Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan.
(2)Department of Gynecology, Otaru General Hospital, Otaru, Japan. 
nsakuragi@jcom.home.ne.jp.
(3)Department of Anatomy II, Sapporo Medical University, Sapporo, Japan.
(4)Division of Internal Medicine, Jikou-kai Clinic of Home Visits, Sapporo, 
Japan.
(5)Department of Gynecology, Otaru General Hospital, Otaru, Japan.

Precision cancer surgery is a system that integrates the accurate evaluation of 
tumor extension and aggressiveness, precise surgical maneuvers, prognosis 
evaluation, and prevention of the deterioration of quality of life (QoL). In 
this regard, nerve-sparing radical hysterectomy has a pivotal role in the 
personalized treatment of cervical cancer. Various types of radical hysterectomy 
can be combined with the nerve-sparing procedure. The extent of parametrium and 
vagina/paracolpium excision and the nerve-sparing procedure are tailored to the 
tumor status. Advanced magnetic resonance imaging technology will improve the 
assessment of the local tumor extension. Validated risk factors for perineural 
invasion might guide selecting treatment for cervical cancer. Type IV Kobayashi 
(modified Okabayashi) radical hysterectomy combined with the systematic 
nerve-sparing procedure aims to both maximize the therapeutic effect and 
minimize the QoL impairment. Regarding the technical aspect, the preservation of 
vesical nerve fibers is essential. Selective transection of uterine nerve fibers 
conserves the vesical nerve fibers as an essential piece of the pelvic nervous 
system comprising the hypogastric nerve, pelvic splanchnic nerves, and inferior 
hypogastric plexus. This method is anatomically and surgically valid for 
adequate removal of the parametrial and vagina/paracolpium tissues while 
preserving the total pelvic nervous system. Local recurrence after nerve-sparing 
surgery might occur due to perineural invasion or inadequate separation of 
pelvic nerves cutting through the wrong tissue plane between the pelvic nerves 
and parametrium/paracolpium. Postoperative management for long-term maintenance 
of bladder function is as critical as preserving the pelvic nerves.

Copyright © 2020. Asian Society of Gynecologic Oncology, Korean Society of 
Gynecologic Oncology.

DOI: 10.3802/jgo.2020.31.e49
PMCID: PMC7189083
PMID: 32266799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. JAMA Psychiatry. 2020 Jun 1;77(6):648-650. doi: 
10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2020.0334.

Changes Over Time in the Differential Mortality Gap in Individuals With Mental 
Disorders.

Plana-Ripoll O(1), Weye N(1), Momen NC(1), Christensen MK(1)(2), Iburg KM(2), 
Laursen TM(1), McGrath JJ(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Register-Based Research, Aarhus University, Aarhus, 
Denmark.
(2)Department of Public Health, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.
(3)Queensland Brain Institute, The University of Queensland, St Lucia, 
Queensland, Australia.
(4)Queensland Centre for Mental Health Research, The Park Centre for Mental 
Health, Wacol, Queensland, Australia.

This study examines changes in mortality rate ratios and life-years lost for 
both external and natural causes over 20 years for specific mental disorders.

DOI: 10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2020.0334
PMCID: PMC7142807
PMID: 32267492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None reported.


828. Epidemiology. 2020 May;31(3):393-401. doi: 10.1097/EDE.0000000000001172.

Rural-Urban Differences in Adult Life Expectancy in Indonesia: A Parametric 
g-formula-based Decomposition Approach.

Sudharsanan N(1), Ho JY(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Heidelberg Institute of Global Health, Heidelberg University, 
Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)Leonard Davis School of Gerontology, Department of Sociology, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, California.

BACKGROUND: Evidence on rural-urban differences in adult mortality in low- and 
middle-income countries (LMICs) is limited and mixed. We examined the size of 
and factors contributing to rural-urban life expectancy differences among adults 
in Indonesia, the third most populous LMIC.
METHODS: Data come from the 2000, 2007, and 2014/2015 waves of the Indonesian 
Family Life Survey, a population-representative longitudinal study with 
mortality follow-up. We used Poisson regression and life tables to estimate 
rural-urban differences in life expectancy among 18,867 adult respondents ≥30 
years. We then used a novel g-formula-based decomposition to quantify the 
contribution of rural-urban differences in blood pressure (BP), body mass index 
(BMI), and smoking to life expectancy differences.
RESULTS: Compared with urban adults, life expectancy at age 30 was 2.2 (95% 
confidence interval [CI] = 0.4, 3.9) years higher for rural men and 1.2 (95% CI 
= -0.4, 2.7) years higher for rural women. Setting the BMI and systolic BP 
distribution equal in urban and rural adults reduced the urban mortality penalty 
by 22% for men and 78% for women, with the majority of this reduction coming 
from the contribution of rural-urban differences in BMI. Smoking did not 
contribute to the urban mortality penalty for either men or women.
CONCLUSIONS: Adult life expectancy is lower in urban than in rural areas in 
Indonesia and we estimate that this difference is partly related to differences 
in BMI and systolic BP.

DOI: 10.1097/EDE.0000000000001172
PMCID: PMC7144754
PMID: 32267655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest.


829. PLoS One. 2020 Apr 8;15(4):e0231413. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0231413. 
eCollection 2020.

Comparative effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of three first-line 
EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors: Analysis of real-world data in a tertiary 
hospital in Taiwan.

Yang SC(1)(2), Lai WW(3), Hsu JC(4), Su WC(1), Wang JD(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, 
College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Public Health, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Surgery, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, College of 
