
The ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes are generally organized as an operon and 
cotranscribed into a polycistronic precursor; therefore, processing and 
maturation of pre-rRNAs are essential for ribosome biogenesis. However, rRNA 
maturation pathways of archaea, particularly of methanoarchaea, are scarcely 
known. Here, we thoroughly elucidated the maturation pathway of the rRNA operon 
(16S-tRNAAla-23S-tRNACys-5S) in Methanolobus psychrophilus, one representative 
of methanoarchaea. Enzymatic assay demonstrated that EndA, a tRNA splicing 
endoribonuclease, cleaved bulge-helix-bulge (BHB) motifs buried in the 
processing stems of pre-16S and pre-23S rRNAs. Northern blot and quantitative 
PCR detected splicing-coupled circularization of pre-16S and pre-23S rRNAs, 
which accounted for 2% and 12% of the corresponding rRNAs, respectively. 
Importantly, endoribonuclease Nob1 was determined to linearize circular pre-16S 
rRNA at the mature 3' end so to expose the anti-Shine-Dalgarno sequence, while 
circular pre-23S rRNA was linearized at the mature 5' end by an unknown 
endoribonuclease. The resultant 5' and 3' extension in linearized pre-16S and 
pre-23S rRNAs were finally matured through 5'-3' and 3'-5' exoribonucleolytic 
trimming, respectively. Additionally, a novel processing pathway of 
endoribonucleolysis coupled with exoribonucleolysis was identified for the 
pre-5S rRNA maturation in this methanogen, which could be also conserved in most 
methanogenic euryarchaea. Based on evaluating the phylogenetic conservation of 
the key elements that are involved in circularization and linearization of 
pre-rRNA maturation, we predict that the rRNA maturation mode revealed here 
could be prevalent among archaea.

DOI: 10.1080/15476286.2020.1771946
PMCID: PMC7549664
PMID: 32449429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the authors.


394. Macromol Rapid Commun. 2020 Nov;41(21):e2000140. doi:
10.1002/marc.202000140.  Epub 2020 May 25.

Synthesis of Polymeric Janus Superstructures via a Facile Synthesis Method.

Lim YGJ(1), Low HYJ(1), Loo SCJ(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Materials Science and Engineering, Nanyang Technological 
University, 50 Nanyang Avenue, Singapore, 639798, Singapore.
(2)Singapore Centre for Environmental Life Sciences Engineering, Nanyang 
Technological University, 60 Nanyang Drive, Singapore, 637551, Singapore.
(3)Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, 677 Huntington Ave, Boston, MA, 
02115, USA.

Polymeric Janus particles can be exploited for a myriad of applications. Through 
the understanding of interfacial tensions, theragnostic agents such as drugs or 
nanomaterials can be successfully encapsulated into Janus particles without 
losing their anisotropic structure. In this work, it is reported that how Janus 
superstructures, as a further extension of the Janus morphology, can be obtained 
by blending other synthesis parameters into the solvent emulsion process, while 
adhering to the requirements of the Harkin's spreading coefficient (HSC) theory. 
Designing such unique structures for drug delivery can provide a broader range 
of possibilities and applications beyond conventional Janus particles.

© 2020 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/marc.202000140
PMID: 32449578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Int J Infect Dis. 2020 Aug;97:38-46. doi: 10.1016/j.ijid.2020.05.062. Epub
2020  May 22.

Health economic assessment of a rabies pre-exposure prophylaxis program compared 
with post-exposure prophylaxis alone in high-risk age groups in the Philippines.

Quiambao B(1), Varghese L(2), Demarteau N(3), Sengson RF(4), Javier J(5), 
Mukherjee P(6), Manio LC(7), Preiss S(8).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for Tropical Medicine, Filinvest Corporate City, 9002 
Research Dr, Alabang, Muntinlupa, 1781 Metro Manila, Philippines. Electronic 
address: ado.ritmdoh@gmail.com.
(2)GSK, 23 Rochester Park, 139234 Singapore, Singapore. Electronic address: 
lijoy.varghese@outlook.com.
(3)GSK, 20 Fleming Avenue, 1300 Wavre, Belgium. Electronic address: 
nadiademarteau@gmail.com.
(4)GSK, 23 Rochester Park, 139234 Singapore, Singapore. Electronic address: 
ruth.r.sengson@gsk.com.
(5)Research Institute for Tropical Medicine, Filinvest Corporate City, 9002 
Research Dr, Alabang, Muntinlupa, 1781 Metro Manila, Philippines. Electronic 
address: jenaline.javier@gmail.com.
(6)GSK, 20 Fleming Avenue, 1300 Wavre, Belgium. Electronic address: 
piyali.x.mukherjee@gsk.com.
(7)GSK, 2266 Chino Roces Ave, Makati, 1231 Metro Manila, Philippines. Electronic 
address: leahmanio@gmail.com.
(8)GSK, 20 Fleming Avenue, 1300 Wavre, Belgium. Electronic address: 
scott.s.preiss@gsk.com.

OBJECTIVES: Once symptoms appear, rabies is almost always fatal and accounts for 
200-300 deaths annually in the Philippines. Available rabies vaccines can be 
administered either in pre- exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) or post-exposure 
prophylaxis (PEP). After exposure, PrEP-immunized individuals require fewer 
doses of PEP and no rabies immunoglobulin.
METHODS: A static decision-tree model was developed to assess cost-effectiveness 
of a PrEP+PEP program vs PEP alone. Philippines-specific data for people seeking 
medical advice at the Research Institute for Tropical Medicine between July 2015 
and June 2016 were used in the model, together with data from published 
literature.
RESULTS: Over a 20-year period, in a cohort of 1 million 5-year-old children in 
the Philippines, PrEP+PEP was expected to prevent 297 deaths compared with PEP 
alone. From both payer and societal perspectives, the resulting incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were 36 035 (US$759; 2016 US$ conversion) and 18 663 
(US$393) Philippine Pesos (PHP) - quality-adjusted life-years gained - 
respectively, which are both below the willingness-to-pay threshold of PHP140 
255 (US$2 953).
CONCLUSION: These data suggest that a universal PrEP program targeting 
5-year-olds would be cost-effective in the Philippines.

Copyright © 2020 GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijid.2020.05.062
PMID: 32450291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Mol Pain. 2020 Jan-Dec;16:1744806920927276. doi: 10.1177/1744806920927276.

Chronic Pain in HIV.

Addis DR(1)(2), DeBerry JJ(1)(2), Aggarwal S(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Perioperative Medicine, School of Medicine, 
University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.
(2)Division of Molecular and Translational Biomedicine, School of Medicine, 
University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.
(3)Pulmonary Injury and Repair Center, School of Medicine, University of Alabama 
at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.

The evolution of therapeutics for and management of human immunodeficiency 
virus-1 (HIV-1) infection has shifted it from predominately manifesting as a 
severe, acute disease with high mortality to a chronic, controlled infection 
with a near typical life expectancy. However, despite extensive use of highly 
active antiretroviral therapy, the prevalence of chronic widespread pain in 
people with HIV remains high even in those with a low viral load and high CD4 
count. Chronic widespread pain is a common comorbidity of HIV infection and is 
associated with decreased quality of life and a high rate of disability. Chronic 
pain in people with HIV is multifactorial and influenced by HIV-induced 
peripheral neuropathy, drug-induced peripheral neuropathy, and chronic 
inflammation. The specific mechanisms underlying these three broad categories 
that contribute to chronic widespread pain are not well understood, hindering 
the development and application of pharmacological and nonpharmacological 
approaches to mitigate chronic widespread pain. The consequent insufficiencies 
in clinical approaches to alleviation of chronic pain in people with HIV 
contribute to an overreliance on opioids and alarming rise in active addiction 
and overdose. This article reviews the current understanding of the pathogenesis 
of chronic widespread pain in people with HIV and identifies potential 
biomarkers and therapeutic targets to mitigate it.

DOI: 10.1177/1744806920927276
PMCID: PMC7252379
PMID: 32450765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Appl Nurs Res. 2020 Jun;53:151249. doi: 10.1016/j.apnr.2020.151249. Epub
2020  Mar 7.

"A journey towards acceptance": The process of adapting to life with HIV in 
Greece. A Qualitative study.

Stroumpouki T(1), Perrett S(2), Kasdovasilis P(3), Papatheodorou P(4), Paparizos 
V(5), Stavropoulou A(6).

Author information:
(1)Acute Adult Nursing, Faculty of Health, Social Care and Education, Kingston 
University and St George's, University of London, Kingston Hill Campus, Kingston 
upon Thames KT2 7LB, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
t.stroumpouki@sgul.kingston.ac.uk.
(2)Health and Justice, Health Protection Team, Public Health Wales, 4th Floor, 
Number 2 Capital Quarter, Tyndall Way, Cardiff CF10 4BZ, United Kingdom. 
Electronic address: stephanie.perrett@wales.nhs.uk.
(3)Health Psychology, Business Improvement and Research Manager, Rehability UK, 
25 Hatton Place, 118 Midland Rd, Luton, LU2 0FB, United Kingdom.
(4)Health Center of Vamos, Vamos Apokoronou, Crete, GR 73008, Greece.
(5)HIV/AIDS Unit, 'A. Syggros' Hospital, 5 I. Dragoumi Str., Kessariani 161 21, 
Athens, Greece.
(6)Department of Nursing, University of West Attica, Ag. Spiridonos 28, 12243 
Aegaleo, Greece. Electronic address: astavropoulou@uniwa.gr.

Aim To identify the experiences related to adaptation for people living with HIV 
in Greece and to explore different adaptation stages as well as their individual 
reactions.
BACKGROUND: Receiving an HIV positive diagnosis leads to major changes in an 
individual's life and it can trigger an array of emotions including fear, 
despair and loss of control. As the profile of the disease has changed due to 
its transition into a chronic disease and extended life expectancy, adaptation 
to life and coping with uncertain events is of paramount importance.
METHOD: Interpretative phenomenological research design was used to guide data 
collection and analysis. A purposive sampling technique was used. Ethical 
procedures were taken into account and nine individuals who were diagnosed with 
HIV took part in the study using semi-structured interviews.
RESULTS: Data analysis revealed the different stages of adaptation that the 
participants experienced after an HIV positive diagnosis. A superordinate theme 
identified as 'a journey towards acceptance' while five subthemes were formed, 
namely, 'Communicating the bad news, Conscious loneliness, Getting information, 
Receiving Support, and Moving on with hope'.
CONCLUSION: An HIV positive diagnosis can affect the very core of the individual 
as the essence of -self- is targeted and in need of reform. Education, empathy, 
family and social support can help the individual make small steps towards a 
greater journey, that of acceptance.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apnr.2020.151249
PMID: 32451004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.


398. Vaccine. 2020 Jun 19;38(30):4687-4694. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2020.05.031.
Epub  2020 May 23.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of a gender-neutral human papillomavirus vaccination 
program in the Netherlands.

Simons JJM(1), Vida N(2), Westra TA(3), Postma MJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Market Access Department, GSK, Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 Zeist, the 
Netherlands. Electronic address: joost.j.simons@gsk.com.
(2)Value Evidence Department, GSK, Avenue Fleming 20, 1300 Wavre, Belgium. 
Electronic address: nora.x.vida@gsk.com.
(3)Market Access Department, GSK, Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 Zeist, the 
Netherlands. Electronic address: tjalke.t.westra@gsk.com.
(4)Department of Health Sciences, University of Groningen, University Medical 
Center, Hanzeplein 1, 9713 GZ Groningen, the Netherlands; Unit of 
Pharmacotherapy, Epidemiology & Economics, University of Groningen, Groningen 
Research Institute of Pharmacy, A Deusinglaan 1, 9713 AV Groningen, the 
Netherlands; Department of Economics, Econometrics & Finance, University of 
Groningen, Faculty of Economics & Business, P.O. Box 800, 9700 AV Groningen, the 
Netherlands. Electronic address: m.j.postma@rug.nl.

BACKGROUND: Vaccinating girls against human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is a 
highly effective and cost-effective intervention to provide protection against 
HPV-induced cancers. Since vaccination coverage rates among girls is modest in 
the Netherlands, additional strategies should be implemented to improve the 
protection against HPV-related cancer. Here we assessed the benefits and 
cost-effectiveness of gender-neutral vaccination.
METHODS: We designed a static Markov model with a lifelong time horizon to 
simulate a cohort of 100,000 12-year-old Dutch boys. The model compares health 
and economic effects of HPV vaccination taking the current female vaccination 
coverage into consideration. HPV prevalence in boys was corrected for the 
predicted herd effects of the female programme in 2017. We extracted transition 
probabilities from peer-reviewed literature and previously constructed models. 
The robustness of the model was tested with multiple sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Vaccinating 30% of 100,000 12-year-old boys prevents 18, 13 and 25 
cases of anal, penile, and oropharyngeal cancers in men, respectively. A total 
of 205 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) are saved by preventing 
cancer-related morbidity and mortality. Assuming a vaccine price of €50 per 
dose, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) is €17,907 per QALY. In 
addition, due to vaccine-induced herd effects, we estimated that 110 cases of 
cancer in females would be additionally prevented and 246 QALYs would be gained 
in the female cohort, bringing the total to 166 cancers prevented and 451 QALYs 
gained. Taking these additional benefits of boys' vaccination into account, the 
overall ICER was estimated at €7310 per QALY gained. The model outcomes are most 
sensitive to variation in vaccine price, herd immunity from females and vaccine 
efficacy.
CONCLUSIONS: Vaccination of boys, additional to girls, will prevent a relevant 
number of cancers in both boys and girls. Based on the current Dutch situation 
vaccination of HPV in boys is likely cost-effective. GSK Study identifier: 
HO-18-19169.

Copyright © 2020 GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2020.05.031
PMID: 32451211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: [J.J.M. Simons, N. Vida and T.A. 
Westra are employed by the GSK group of companies. T.A. Westra holds shares in 
the GSK group of companies. M.J. Postma declares outside of the submitted work 
grants and personal fees from MSD, GSK group of companies, Pfizer, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Novavax, BMS, Astra Zeneca, Sanofi, Asc Academics and IQVIA. M.J. 
Postma declares outside of the submitted work grant from Bayer and BioMerieux. 
M.J. Postma declares outside of the submitted work personal fees from Quintiles, 
Novartis, Pharmerit and Ingress Health. M.J. Postma declares outside of the 
submitted work to hold shares from Ingress Health (20%) and from PAG Ltd (100%). 
M.J. Postma declares outside of the submitted work non-financial support from 
Asc Academics and to be an adviser for this company.].


399. Surgeon. 2021 Jun;19(3):142-149. doi: 10.1016/j.surge.2020.04.008. Epub 2020
May  22.

The effect of preservation of the supraclavicular nerve on sensation recovery in 
endoscopic thyroidectomy via a gasless anterior chest approach: A prospective 
study.

Zhou Z(1), Liang F(2), Yu S(2), Huang X(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, First People's 
Hospital of Foshan, Foshan, 528000, People's Republic of China; Department of 
Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital, Sun 
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510289, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Sun Yat-sen Memorial 
Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510289, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Sun Yat-sen Memorial 
Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510289, People's Republic of China. 
Electronic address: hxming@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Factors to sensory change on the neck and chest after endoscopic 
thyroidectomy were not well studied. The aim of this study was to assess whether 
preservation of the supraclavicular nerve (SCN) could make a difference.
METHODS: 33 cases with the SCN preserved (Group A) and 32 cases with the SCN 
damaged (Group B) were recruited. Evaluation of tactile sensitivity and pain 
sensitivity as well as a questionnaire concerning subjective symptoms and 
quality of life was also administered preoperatively and postoperatively.
RESULTS: Sensation in the anterior chest of Group A had milder loss and reached 
preoperative level within the 1-year follow-up while that of Group B still 
showed deficit beneath the clavicle. Group A also had smaller proportion of 
numbness, symptomatic extension, psychological impact in early postoperative 
time.
CONCLUSION: Protection of the SCN can improve sensation recovery in the anterior 
chest and enhance the quality of life after surgery.

Copyright © 2020 Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh (Scottish charity number 
SC005317) and Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surge.2020.04.008
PMID: 32451283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. J Endovasc Ther. 2020 Oct;27(5):845-847. doi: 10.1177/1526602820924659. Epub
 2020 May 25.

Commentary: How Old Is Too Old for EVAR?

Faggioli G(1), Pini R(1), Gallitto E(1), Mascoli C(1), Gargiulo M(1).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Vascular Surgery, Alma Mater Studiorum - University of Bologna, 
Policlinico S. Orsola-Malpighi, Bologna, Italy.

Comment on
    J Endovasc Ther. 2020 Oct;27(5):836-844.

DOI: 10.1177/1526602820924659
PMID: 32452239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Farm Hosp. 2020 Mar 1;44(2):68-76. doi: 10.7399/fh.11385.

Disease modifying therapies in multiple sclerosis: cost-effectiveness systematic 
review.

[Article in English]

Navarro CE(1), Ordóñez-Callamand E(2), Alzate JP(3).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Clinical Neurology, Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, 
Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Bogotá. Colombia. Grupo de Investigación en 
Neurología de la Universidad Nacional de Colombia-NEURONAL, Bogotá. Colombia.. 
cenavarroc@unal.edu.co.
(2)Unit of Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, 
Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Bogotá. Colombia.. elordonezca@unal.edu.co.
(3)Instituto de Investigaciones Clínicas, School of Medicine, Universidad 
Nacional de Colombia, Bogotá. Colombia.. jpag6@hotmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: To identify and describe cost-effectiveness studies that  
evaluate disease modifying therapies in the context of relapsing- remitting 
multiple sclerosis.
METHOD: A systematic review of the literature was carried out by  
searching MEDLINE, Embase, the Cochrane Library, LILACS, the Tufts  Medical 
Center Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Registry, the National Health  Service 
Economic Evaluation Database and Open Grey. The search was  performed in 
January 2018 and covered articles published between  January 2010 and 
December 2017. The studies reviewed were payer- perspective cost-effectiveness 
analyses for interferon beta-1a, interferon beta-1b, glatiramer acetate, 
teriflunomide, fingolimod, dimethyl  fumarate, natalizumab, alemtuzumab and 
rituximab. The Quality of  Health Economic Studies instrument was used to 
determine the quality  of the studies reviewed. Risk of bias was assessed 
without a  standardized tool. An analysis was made of direct costs, quality- 
adjusted life-years and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. Data  
extraction and evaluation of information were conducted separately by  each 
author.
RESULTS: Four hundred one references were found; nine studies were included. A 
great degree of variability was identified for several  methodological aspects. 
Two studies that applied the incremental cost- effectiveness ratio (cost) showed 
no first-line therapy to be cost- effective. A third study demonstrated 
dominance of interferon beta-1b  over placebo (USD -315,109.45) and a fourth 
paper showed dominance  of teriflunomide over interferons and glatiramer acetate 
(USD - 121,840.37). As regards second-line therapies, dimethyl fumarate was  
cost-effective in a study that compared it to glatiramer acetate and  interferon 
beta-1a and it was dominant in another study that compared  it with glatiramer 
acetate (USD -158,897.93) and fingolimod (USD - 92,988.97). In the third line of 
treatment, one study showed  natalizumab to be cost-effective as compared with 
fingolimod, and  another study showed alemtuzumab to be dominant over 
fingolimod  (USD -49,221). A third trial demonstrated alemtuzumab to be dominant 
over natalizumab (USD -1,656,266.07). Many of the trials have  sponsorship bias. 
Eight of the trials received a high QHES score.
CONCLUSIONS: The present paper shows that cost-effectiveness studies have high 
levels of methodological variability, some of them  reaching contradictory 
results. As a result, it is not possible to  determine which disease- modifying 
therapy is really cost-effective in  the context of relapsingremitting multiple 
sclerosis.

Publisher: Objetivo: Identificar y describir los estudios de costo-efectividad 
que evalúan las terapias modificadoras de la enfermedad en esclerosis  
múltiple recurrente-remitente.Método: Revisión sistemática de la literatura en 
MEDLINE, Embase,  Cochrane Library, LILACS, Tufts Medical Center 
cost-effectiveness  analysis registry, National Health Service economic 
evaluation database  y Open Grey; búsqueda limitada entre enero de 2010 y 
diciembre de  2017, se ejecutó en enero de 2018. Se incluyeron modelos de costo- 
efectividad con perspectiva de pagador para interferón beta-1a,  interferón 
beta-1b, acetato de glatiramero, teriflunomida, fingolimod,  dimetilfumarato, 
natalizumab, alemtuzumab y rituximab. La  herramienta Quality of Health Economic 
Studies fue usada para  determinar la calidad de los estudios, el sesgo se 
evaluó sin una  herramienta estandarizada, dada su no existencia. Se analizaron 
costos directos, años de vida ajustados por calidad y la razón de costo- 
efectividad incremental. La extracción de los datos y la evaluación de la  
información se realizaron por cada autor de forma independiente.Resultados: Se 
encontraron 401 referencias, se incluyeron nueve  estudios; hubo variabilidad en 
múltiples aspectos metodológicos. Según  la razón de costo-efectividad 
incremental (costo), dos trabajos  mostraron que ninguna terapia de primera 
línea fue costo-efectiva, un  tercer estudio reporta al interferón beta-1b como 
dominante sobre  placebo (–315.109,45 dólar estadounidense [US$]) y un cuarto 
artículo  expone a teriflunomida como dominante sobre interferones y acetato de 
glatiramero (–121.840,37 US$). Respecto a las terapias de segunda  línea, 
dimetil fumarato fue costoefectivo en un estudio comparado con  acetato de 
glatiramero e interferón beta-1a y fue dominante en otro  trabajo frente a 
acetato de glatiramero (–158.897,93 US$) y fingolimod  (–92.988,97 US$). En la 
tercera línea de tratamiento, natalizumab fue  costo-efectivo sobre fingolimod 
en un artículo, y alemtuzumab fue  dominante contra fingolimod (–49.221 US$) 
en un segundo estudio. En  un tercer ensayo el alemtuzumab fue dominante sobre 
natalizumab (– 1.656.266,07 US$). Muchos estudios tuvieron sesgo de 
patrocinador.  Ocho artículos obtuvieron alta puntuación de calidad con la 
herramienta  Quality of Health Economic Studies.Conclusiones: Este trabajo 
demuestra que existe una gran variabilidad metodológica entre los estudios de 
costo-efectividad, y  algunos de ellos tienen resultados contradictorios. No es 
posible  determinar qué terapia modificadora de la enfermedad en esclerosis  
múltiple recurrente-remitente es costo-efectiva.

Copyright AULA MEDICA EDICIONES 2014. Published by AULA MEDICA. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.7399/fh.11385
PMID: 32452318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Hum Mov Sci. 2020 Aug;72:102632. doi: 10.1016/j.humov.2020.102632. Epub 2020
May  21.

Comparison of upper limb kinematics in two activities of daily living with 
different handling requirements.

Mesquita IA(1), Fonseca PFPD(2), Borgonovo-Santos M(2), Ribeiro E(3), Pinheiro 
ARV(4), Correia MV(5), Silva C(6).

Author information:
(1)Center for Rehabilitation Research (CIR) (CIR), School of Health of 
Polytechnic of Porto (ESS-P.Porto), Rua Dr. António Bernardino de Almeida, 400, 
4200 - 072 Porto, Portugal; Department of Functional Sciences, School of Health 
of Polytechnic of Porto (ESS-P.Porto), Rua Dr. António Bernardino de Almeida, 
400, 4200 - 072 Porto, Portugal. Electronic address: iam@ess.ipp.pt.
(2)LABIOMEP: Porto Biomechanics Laboratory, University of Porto. R. Dr. Plácido 
da Costa, 4200-450 Porto, Portugal.
(3)Center for Rehabilitation Research (CIR) (CIR), School of Health of 
Polytechnic of Porto (ESS-P.Porto), Rua Dr. António Bernardino de Almeida, 400, 
4200 - 072 Porto, Portugal.
(4)Center for Rehabilitation Research (CIR) (CIR), School of Health of 
Polytechnic of Porto (ESS-P.Porto), Rua Dr. António Bernardino de Almeida, 400, 
4200 - 072 Porto, Portugal; School of Health Sciences, University of Aveiro, 
Edifício 30, Agras do Crasto - Campus Universitário de Santiago, 3810-193 
Aveiro, Portugal.
(5)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Faculty of Engineering of 
the University of Porto (FEUP), R. Dr. Roberto Frias, 4200-465 Porto, Portugal; 
Institute for Systems and Computer Engineering, Technology and Science (INESC 
TEC), R. Dr. Roberto Frias, 4200-465 Porto, Portugal.
(6)Center for Rehabilitation Research (CIR) (CIR), School of Health of 
Polytechnic of Porto (ESS-P.Porto), Rua Dr. António Bernardino de Almeida, 400, 
4200 - 072 Porto, Portugal; Department of Physiotherapy, School of Health of 
Polytechnic of Porto (ESS-P.Porto), Rua Dr. António Bernardino de Almeida, 400, 
4200 - 072 Porto, Portugal.

INTRODUCTION: Recently, kinematic analysis of the drinking task (DRINK) has been 
recommended to assess the quality of upper limb (UL) movement after stroke, but 
the accomplishment of this task may become difficult for poststroke patients 
with hand impairment. Therefore, it is necessary to study ADLs that involve a 
simpler interaction with a daily life target, such as the turning on a light 
task (LIGHT). As the knowledge of movement performed by healthy adults becomes 
essential to assess the quality of movement of poststroke patients, the main 
goal of this article was to compare the kinematic strategies used by healthy 
adults in LIGHT with those that are used in DRINK.
METHODS: 63 adults, aged 30 to 69 years old, drank water and turned on a light, 
using both ULs separately, while seated. The movements of both tasks were 
captured by a 3D motion capture system. End-point and joint kinematics of 
reaching and returning phases were analysed. A multifactorial analysis of 
variance with repeated measures was applied to the kinematic metrics, using age, 
sex, body mass index and dominance as main factors.
RESULTS: Mean and peak velocities, index of curvature, shoulder flexion and 
elbow extension were lower in LIGHT, which suggests that the real hand 
trajectory was smaller in this task. In LIGHT, reaching was less smooth and 
returning was smoother than DRINK. The instant of peak velocity was similar in 
both tasks. There was a minimal anterior trunk displacement in LIGHT, and a 
greater anterior trunk displacement in DRINK. Age and sex were the main factors 
which exerted effect on some of the kinematics, especially in LIGHT.
CONCLUSION: The different target formats and hand contact in DRINK and LIGHT 
seem to be responsible for differences in velocity profile, efficiency, 
smoothness, joint angles and trunk displacement. Results suggest that the real 
hand trajectory was smaller in LIGHT and that interaction with the switch seems 
to be less demanding than with the glass. Accordingly, LIGHT could be a good 
option for the assessment of poststroke patients without grasping ability. Age 
and sex seem to be the main factors to be considered in future studies for a 
better match between healthy and poststroke adults.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humov.2020.102632
PMID: 32452388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The Authors 
report no conflicts of interest.


403. PLoS Biol. 2020 May 26;18(5):e3000660. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.3000660. 
eCollection 2020 May.

HIV-1 Tat-mediated astrocytic amyloidosis involves the HIF-1α/lncRNA BACE1-AS 
axis.

Sil S(1), Hu G(1), Liao K(1), Niu F(1), Callen S(1), Periyasamy P(1), Fox HS(1), 
Buch S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Experimental Neuroscience, University of 
Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, Nebraska, United States of America.

Increased life expectancy of patients diagnosed with HIV in the current era of 
antiretroviral therapy is unfortunately accompanied with the prevalence of 
HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HANDs) and risk of comorbidities such 
as Alzheimer-like pathology. HIV-1 transactivator of transcription (Tat) protein 
has been shown to induce the production of toxic neuronal amyloid protein and 
also enhance neurotoxicity. The contribution of astrocytes in Tat-mediated 
amyloidosis remains an enigma. We report here, in simian immunodeficiency virus 
(SIV)+ rhesus macaques and patients diagnosed with HIV, brain region-specific 
up-regulation of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and Aβ (40 and 42) in 
astrocytes. In addition, we find increased expression of β-site cleaving enzyme 
(BACE1), APP, and Aβ in human primary astrocytes (HPAs) exposed to Tat. 
Mechanisms involved up-regulation of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF-1α), its 
translocation and binding to the long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) BACE1-antisense 
transcript (BACE1-AS), resulting, in turn, in the formation of the 
BACE1-AS/BACE1 RNA complex, subsequently leading to increased BACE1 protein, and 
activity and generation of Aβ-42. Gene silencing approaches confirmed the 
regulatory role of HIF-1α in BACE1-AS/BACE1 in Tat-mediated amyloidosis. This is 
the first report implicating the role of the HIF-1α/lncRNABACE1-AS/BACE1 axis in 
Tat-mediated induction of astrocytic amyloidosis, which could be targeted as 
adjunctive therapies for HAND-associated Alzheimer-like comorbidity.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.3000660
PMCID: PMC7274476
PMID: 32453744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


404. Clin Chim Acta. 2020 Sep;508:213-216. doi: 10.1016/j.cca.2020.05.041. Epub
2020  May 23.

An evidence for correlation between the glutathione S-transferase T1 (GSTT1) 
polymorphism and outcome of COVID-19.

Saadat M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, College of Sciences, Shiraz University, Shiraz 
71467-13565, Iran.

Comment in
    Croat Med J. 2020 Dec 31;61(6):525-526.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cca.2020.05.041
PMCID: PMC7245315
PMID: 32454047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


405. Molecules. 2020 May 21;25(10):2414. doi: 10.3390/molecules25102414.

Application of High-Pressure Processing to Assure the Storage Stability of 
Unfiltered Lager Beer.

Štulíková K(1), Bulíř T(1), Nešpor J(1), Jelínek L(1), Karabín M(1), Dostálek 
P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Food and Biochemical Technology, 
University of Chemistry and Technology, Technicka 5, Prague 6-Dejvice, 166 28 
Prague, Czech Republic.

Due to the increasing popularity of unfiltered beer, new methods for its 
preservation are needed. High-pressure processing (HPP) was applied as a final 
treatment of packed beer in order to assure storage stability and to retain the 
desired product quality. Pressures of 250 MPa and 550 MPa for 5 min were used to 
process unfiltered lager beers. The impact of pressure on basic analytical 
characteristics was evaluated, and foam stability, the content of carbonyl 
compounds and sensory properties were monitored during two months of storage. 
Most of the basic analytical parameters remained unaffected after pressure 
treatment, and a beneficial effect on foam stability was demonstrated. Changes 
in the concentration of staling aldehydes were observed during storage. Some 
features of the sensory profile were affected by HPP as well as by the time of 
storage. Our study evaluated the suitability of HPP as a novel method for 
shelf-life extension of unfiltered lager beer.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25102414
PMCID: PMC7287966
PMID: 32455848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision 
to publish the results.


406. Am J Mens Health. 2020 May-Jun;14(3):1557988320926332. doi: 
10.1177/1557988320926332.

Age-Related Alterations in Endocrine Markers Do Not Match Changes in 
Psychosocial Measures: Findings From the Men's Health 40+ Longitudinal Study.

Lacker TJ(1)(2), Walther A(1)(2)(3), Ehlert U(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy, University of Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)University Research Priority Program (URPP), Dynamics of Healthy Aging, 
University of Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)Biopsychology, Technical University Dresden, Dresden, Germany.

While life expectancy continues to increase, aging can bring several distinct 
endocrine and psychosocial changes. The study aimed to investigate the interplay 
between biopsychosocial factors of healthy aging in specifically healthy aging 
men. Ninety-seven healthy aging men were investigated at two time points 
spanning 4 years. Participants completed questionnaires measuring several 
psychosocial dimensions and gave saliva samples for hormone quantification 
during a laboratory appointment. The study applied a random intercept 
mixed-model approach. Age-related changes were found in most endocrine markers 
(cortisol, testosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate, and progesterone), 
except for estradiol. Psychosocial measures remained stable, except for 
increased social support. Further, changes in endocrine and psychosocial 
measures were independent of each other. The results suggest that in healthy 
aging men, age-related endocrine changes occur, but do not necessarily determine 
a change in psychosocial measures. Potentially, preventive interventions can be 
derived from these results.

DOI: 10.1177/1557988320926332
PMCID: PMC7278106
PMID: 32456528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


407. Scand J Public Health. 2020 Dec;48(8):791-793. doi:
10.1177/1403494820921684.  Epub 2020 May 26.

Rural-urban mortality inequalities in four Nordic welfare states.

Bremberg S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Public Health, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

In the Nordic countries, there are ambitious welfare policies that might reduce 
rural-urban health disparities.
AIM: To investigate the effect of population density on health in four Nordic 
countries.
METHODS: The health outcomes analysed were life expectancy and potential years 
of life lost. The effect of population density was appraised as the difference 
in life expectancy/ potential years of life lost by a 10-fold increase of 
population density.
RESULTS: In Finland, Norway and Sweden, mortality rates were consistently higher 
in less densely populated municipalities. These disparities increased over time. 
Conclusions: The welfare efforts to offset rural-urban disparities have mostly 
not been sufficient.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494820921684
PMCID: PMC7678336
PMID: 32456534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors declared no 
potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or 
publication of this article.


408. Diabetes Care. 2020 Aug;43(8):1750-1758. doi: 10.2337/dc19-2137. Epub 2020
May  26.

The Impact of Cardiovascular Disease and Chronic Kidney Disease on Life 
Expectancy and Direct Medical Cost in a 10-Year Diabetes Cohort Study.

Wan EYF(1)(2), Chin WY(1), Yu EYT(3), Wong ICK(2)(4), Chan EWY(5), Li 
SX(5)(6)(7), Cheung NKL(3), Wang Y(3), Lam CLK(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine and Primary Care, LKS Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong yfwan@hku.hk chinwy@hku.hk.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacy, LKS Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
(3)Department of Family Medicine and Primary Care, LKS Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
(4)Research Department of Practice and Policy, School of Pharmacy, University 
College London, London, U.K.
(5)Centre for Safe Medication Practice and Research, Department of Pharmacology 
and Pharmacy, LKS Faculty of Medicine, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
(6)Department of Paediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, LKS Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
(7)Department of Social Work and Social Administration, Faculty of Social 
Science, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.

OBJECTIVE: The relative effects of various cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) and 
varying severity of chronic kidney disease (CKD) on mortality risk, direct 
medical cost, and life expectancy in patients with diabetes are unclear. The aim 
of this study was to evaluate these associations.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: This was a retrospective cohort study that included 
208,792 adults with diabetes stratified into 12 disease status groups with 
varying combinations of heart disease, stroke, moderate CKD (estimated 
glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] 30-59 mL/min/1.73 m2) and severe CKD (eGFR <30 
mL/min/1.73 m2) in 2008-2010. The effect of risk of mortality, annual direct 
medical costs, and life expectancy were assessed using Cox regression, gamma 
generalized linear method with log-link function, and flexible parametric 
survival models.
RESULTS: Over a median follow-up of 8.5 years (1.6 million patient-years), 
50,154 deaths were recorded. Mortality risks for patients with only a single 
condition among heart disease, stroke, and moderate CKD were similar. The 
mortality risks were 1.75 times, 2.63 times, and 3.58 times greater for patients 
with one, two, and all three conditions (consisting of stroke, heart disease, 
and moderate CKD), compared with patients without these diseases, suggesting an 
independent and individually additive effect for any combination. A similar 
trend was observed in annual public health care costs with 2.91-, 3.90-, and 
3.88-fold increased costs for patients with one, two, and three conditions, 
respectively. Increases in the number of conditions reduced life expectancy 
greatly, particularly in younger patients. Reduction in life expectancy for a 
40-year-old with one, two, and three conditions was 20, 25, and 30 years for men 
and 25, 30, and 35 years, respectively, for women. A similar trend of greater 
magnitude was observed for severe CKD.
CONCLUSIONS: The effects of heart diseases, stroke, CKD, and the combination of 
these conditions on all-cause mortality and direct medical costs are independent 
and cumulative. CKD, especially severe CKD, appears to have a particularly 
significant impact on life expectancy and direct medical costs in patients with 
diabetes. These findings support the importance of preventing both CVD and CKD 
in patients with diabetes.

© 2020 by the American Diabetes Association.

DOI: 10.2337/dc19-2137
PMID: 32457057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. J Neurosci. 2020 Jun 24;40(26):5137-5154. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0536-20.2020.  Epub 2020 May 26.

Mitigation of ALS Pathology by Neuron-Specific Inhibition of Nuclear Factor 
Kappa B Signaling.

Dutta K(1), Thammisetty SS(1), Boutej H(1), Bareil C(1), Julien JP(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)CERVO Brain Research Centre, Québec City, Québec G1J 2G3, Canada.
(2)CERVO Brain Research Centre, Québec City, Québec G1J 2G3, Canada 
jean-pierre.julien@fmed.ulaval.ca.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neuroscience, Université Laval, Québec City, 
Québec G1V 0A6, Canada.

Comment in
    J Neurosci. 2021 Feb 10;41(6):1142-1144.

To investigate the role of neuronal NF-κB activity in pathogenesis of 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), we generated transgenic mice with 
neuron-specific expression of a super-repressor form of the NF-κB inhibitor 
(IκBα-SR), which were then crossed with mice of both sexes, expressing 
ALS-linked gene mutants for TAR DNA-binding protein (TDP-43) and superoxide 
dismutase 1 (SOD1). Remarkably, neuronal expression of IκBα-SR transgene in mice 
expressing TDP-43A315T or TDP-43G348C mice led to a decrease in cytoplasmic to 
nuclear ratio of human TDP-43. The mitigation of TDP-43 neuropathology by 
IκBα-SR, which is likely due to an induction of autophagy, was associated with 
amelioration of cognitive and motor deficits as well as reduction of motor 
neuron loss and gliosis. Neuronal suppression of NF-κB activity in SOD1G93A mice 
also resulted in neuroprotection with reduction of misfolded SOD1 levels and 
significant extension of life span. The results suggest that neuronal NF-κB 
signaling constitutes a novel therapeutic target for ALS disease and related 
disorders with TDP-43 proteinopathy.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT This study reports 
that neuron-specific expression of IκB super-repressor mitigated behavioral and 
pathologic changes in transgenic mouse models of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
expressing mutant forms of either Tar DNA-binding protein 43 or superoxide 
dismutase. The results suggest that neuronal NF-κB signaling constitutes a novel 
therapeutic target for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and related disorders with 
Tar DNA-binding protein 43 proteinopathy.

Copyright © 2020 Dutta et al.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0536-20.2020
PMCID: PMC7314413
PMID: 32457070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Eur J Health Econ. 2020 Sep;21(7):1059-1073. doi:
10.1007/s10198-020-01199-4.  Epub 2020 May 26.

Modeling Personalized Adjuvant TreaTment in EaRly stage coloN cancer (PATTERN).

Jongeneel G(1), Greuter MJE(2), van Erning FN(3), Koopman M(4), Medema JP(5), 
Kandimalla R(6), Goel A(6), Bujanda L(7), Meijer GA(8), Fijneman RJA(8), van 
Oijen MGH(9), Ijzermans J(10), Punt CJA(9), Vink GR(3)(4), Coupé VMH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Amsterdam UMC, VU University, 
MF F-wing, PO Box 7057, 1007 MB, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
g.jongeneel@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Amsterdam UMC, VU University, 
MF F-wing, PO Box 7057, 1007 MB, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Research, Netherlands Comprehensive Cancer Organization (IKNL), 
Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht 
University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Radiotherapy, Amsterdam UMC, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Center for Gastrointestinal Research, Center for Translational Genomics and 
Oncology, Baylor Scott & White Research Institute and Charles A. Sammons Cancer 
Center, Baylor University Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA.
(7)Instituto Biodonostia, Department of Gastroenterology Centro de Investigación 
Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas (CIBERehd), Universidad 
del País Vasco (UPV/EHU), San Sebastián, Spain.
(8)Department of Pathology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(9)Department of Medical Oncology, Amsterdam UMC, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(10)Department of General Surgery, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

AIM: To develop a decision model for the population-level evaluation of 
strategies to improve the selection of stage II colon cancer (CC) patients who 
benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy.
METHODS: A Markov cohort model with a one-month cycle length and a lifelong time 
horizon was developed. Five health states were included; diagnosis, 90-day 
mortality, death other causes, recurrence and CC death. Data from the 
Netherlands Cancer Registry were used to parameterize the model. Transition 
probabilities were estimated using parametric survival models including relevant 
clinical and pathological covariates. Subsequently, biomarker status was 
implemented using external data. Treatment effect was incorporated using pooled 
trial data. Model development, data sources used, parameter estimation, and 
internal and external validation are described in detail. To illustrate the use 
of the model, three example strategies were evaluated in which allocation of 
treatment was based on (A) 100% adherence to the Dutch guidelines, (B) observed 
adherence to guideline recommendations and (C) a biomarker-driven strategy.
RESULTS: Overall, the model showed good internal and external validity. Age, 
tumor growth, tumor sidedness, evaluated lymph nodes, and biomarker status were 
included as covariates. For the example strategies, the model predicted 83, 87 
and 77 CC deaths after 5 years in a cohort of 1000 patients for strategies A, B 
and C, respectively.
CONCLUSION: This model can be used to evaluate strategies for the allocation of 
adjuvant chemotherapy in stage II CC patients. In future studies, the model will 
be used to estimate population-level long-term health gain and 
cost-effectiveness of biomarker-based selection strategies.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-020-01199-4
PMCID: PMC7423797
PMID: 32458162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no potential conflicts of 
interest.


411. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2020 May 1;21(5):1317-1325. doi: 
10.31557/APJCP.2020.21.5.1317.

Epidemiologic and Health Economic Evaluation of Cervical Cancer Screening in 
Rural China.

Zhao F(1), Wen Y(1)(2), Li Y(3)(4), Tao S(1), Ma L(5), Zhao Y(3)(6), Dang L(3), 
Wang Y(1), Zhao F(3), Lang J(7), Qiao Y(3), Yang CX(1).

Author information:
(1)West China School of Public Health and West Fourth Hospital, Sichuan 
University, Chengdu, China.
(2)Department of Molecular Epidemiology, Shenzhen Center for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Shenzhen,China.
(3)National Cancer Center/National Clinical Research Center for Cancer/Cancer 
Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, 
Beijing, China.
(4)Institute of Medical Information, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and 
Peking Union M Medical College, Beijing, China.
(5)Dalian Medical University, Dalian, China.
(6)Sichuan Cancer Hospital &Institute, Sichuan Cancer Center, School of 
Medicine, University of Electronic Science &Technology of China, Chengdu, China.
(7)Peking Union Medical college Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences/Peking Union Medical College(CAMS/PUMC), Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: Cervical cancer is preventable and curable by detected early and 
managed effectively. To explore the most economical and effective cervical 
cancer screening strategies would lay a solid foundation for reducing the health 
and economic burden of cervical cancer.
METHODS: A Markov model was established for a cohort of 100,000 female to 
simulate the natural history of cervical cancer. 18 screening strategies were 
estimated including careHPV, Thin prep cytologic (TCT), Visual inspection with 
acetic acid/ Lugol's iodine (VIA / VILI), careHPV in series with VIA / VILI, 
careHPV in series with TCT, three methods parallel connection every 1, 3, 5 
years respectively. Model outcomes included cumulative risk of incidence and 
death of cervical cancer, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), 
cost-effectiveness ratios (CERs), incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs), 
cost-utility ratios (CURs) and benefits.
RESULTS: According to the results of epidemiological analysis, careHPV similar 
to the parallel connection every 1 year achieved highest epidemiological effects 
via reducing the cumulative risk of onset and death by more than 98 %. In 
health-economic terms, CER among all the screening strategies ranged from 
-756.34 to 113040.3 Yuan per year and CUR ranged from -169.91 to 11968.27 Yuan 
per QALY. The benefit ranged from -1629 to 996 Yuan. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness analysis showed that three methods in parallel every 1 year, 
TCT every 1 year, VIA/VILI every 1, 3, 5 years and careHPV every 5 years were 
dominant strategies.
CONCLUSION: Considering the economic and health benefits of all the strategies, 
our results suggested careHPV every 3 or 5 years and VIA/VILI every 1 or 3 years 
eventually were more appropriate as screening methods in rural China.

DOI: 10.31557/APJCP.2020.21.5.1317
PMCID: PMC7541874
PMID: 32458639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2020 May 1;21(5):1487-1494. doi: 
10.31557/APJCP.2020.21.5.1487.

GLOBAL Leukemia in Children 0-14 Statistics 2018, Incidence and Mortality and 
Human Development Index (HDI): GLOBOCAN Sources and Methods.

Namayandeh SM(1), Khazaei Z(2), Lari Najafi M(3), Goodarzi E(4), Moslem A(5).

Author information:
(1)Prevention and Epidemiology Research Center of Non-Communicable Disease, 
Health Faculty, Shahid Saduoghi University of Medical Sciences, Yazd, Iran.
(2)Department of Public Health, School of Medicine, Dezful University of Medical 
Sciences, Dezful, Iran.
(3)Pharmaceutical Sciences and Cosmetic Products Research Center, Kerman 
University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(4)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Lorestan University of Medical 
Sciences, Khorramabad, Iran.
(5)Iranian Research Center on Healthy Aging, Sabzevar University of Medical 
Sciences, Sabzevar, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: Cancer is the second leading cause of death in children under 15 and 
leukemia is the most common type of cancer in this age group.  The aim of the 
present study is to investigate the incidence and mortality of leukemia in 
children aged 0-14 years and its relationship with Human Development Index (HDI 
in different countries of the world.  Methods: Incidence and mortality rates 
were obtained from GLOBOCAN and Country's income from World Bank. The data 
analysis was conducted using correlation analysis. The association of incidence 
and mortality rates with HDI was investigated using linear regression models.
RESULTS: The results revealed a significant positive correlation between the 
incidence rate and Gross National Income per capita (r = 0.464, P <0.0001), mean 
years of schooling (r = 0.566, P <0.0001), life expectancy at birth (r = 0.712, 
P <0.0001) and expected years of schooling (r = 0.604, P <0.0001). The results 
also demonstrated a positive and significant correlation between mortality rate 
and life expectancy at birth (r = 0.199, P <0.0001). An improvement in HDI [Beta 
= 7.7, CI95% (0.1, 15.3)] and life Expectancy at birth [Beta = 0.1, CI95% (0.03, 
0.1)] caused a significantly rise in the incidence of leukemia. Moreover, the 
improved HDI [Beta = 6.2, CI95% (1.9, 10.5)] was associated with increased mean 
years of schooling [Beta = -0.1, CI95% (-0.2, -0.01)] and expected years of 
schooling [Beta = -0.1, CI95% (-0.3, -0.08).
CONCLUSION: As the HDI increases, incidence and mortality from of leukemia 
increases indicating a change in factors that affects leukemia incidences.

DOI: 10.31557/APJCP.2020.21.5.1487
PMCID: PMC7541866
PMID: 32458660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Mult Scler. 2021 Apr;27(4):613-620. doi: 10.1177/1352458520923945. Epub 2020
May  27.

Frailty in ageing persons with multiple sclerosis.

Ayrignac X(1), Larochelle C(2), Keezer M(3), Roger E(2), Poirier J(2), Lahav 
B(2), Girard M(2), Prat A(2), Duquette P(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinique de Sclérose en plaques du Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier 
de l'Université de Montréal (CRCHUM), Montreal, QC, Canada/Department of 
Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine, Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, 
Canada/Département de Neurologie, CRC sclérose en plaques, CHU Montpellier, 
INSERM, Université Montpellier, Montpellier, France.
(2)Clinique de Sclérose en plaques du Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier 
de l'Université de Montréal (CRCHUM), Montreal, QC, Canada/Department of 
Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine, Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, 
Canada.
(3)Department of Neurosciences, Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, 
Canada/Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal (CHUM), Montreal, QC, 
