
Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0929867327666200610175400
PMID: 32520675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Curr Opin Lipidol. 2020 Aug;31(4):176-181. doi:
10.1097/MOL.0000000000000686.

Evidence for improved survival with treatment of homozygous familial 
hypercholesterolemia.

Bélanger AM(1), Akioyamen L(2), Alothman L(1), Genest J(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute of the McGill University Health Centre, Royal Victoria 
Hospital, Montreal, Quebec.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) is an orphan 
disease caused by biallelic mutations at the LDL receptor (LDLR) gene, with a 
prevalence estimated at 1 : 250 000 to 1 : 630 000. HoFH is characterized by 
extremely elevated plasma levels of LDL-C greater than 10 mmol/l (>387 mg/dl), 
tendinous and cutaneous xanthomas in youth and premature atherosclerotic 
cardiovascular disease (ASCVD). The expected prevalence varies from country to 
country depending on the presence of founder effects, genetic probability and 
life expectancy. Untreated, HoFH is a fatal condition before age 30. Plasma 
levels of LDL-C are the major cause of mortality and the therapeutic target. 
Statin therapy led to a remarkable improvement in survival but is of limited use 
in loss-of-function LDLR gene variants or 'null' mutations. Inhibitors of PCSK9 
are a useful adjunct in patients with LDLR mutations with residual activity. 
Extracorporeal LDL filtration has improved survival since its introduction three 
decades ago.
RECENT FINDINGS: Novel therapies, not dependent on a functioning LDLR include 
lomitapide and mipomersen, which decrease hepatic apolipoprotein B secretion, 
and evinacumab, directed at the angiopoietin like-3 protein (ANGPLT-3).
SUMMARY: Over the past 3-4 decades, the survival of patients with HoFH has 
increased markedly. New therapeutic options offer new hope.

DOI: 10.1097/MOL.0000000000000686
PMID: 32520777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Curr Opin Pediatr. 2020 Aug;32(4):589-594. doi:
10.1097/MOP.0000000000000915.

Treatment of cardiometabolic risk factors in patients with type 1 diabetes.

Niechciał E(1), Marcovecchio ML(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Diabetes, Endocrinology and Obesity, Poznan 
University of Medical Sciences, Poznan, Poland.
(2)Department of Paediatrics, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Individuals with type 1 diabetes (T1D) have excess 
cardiovascular risk and reduced life expectancy. Adolescence is the time when 
the first signs of vascular complications appear and a critical window for 
interventions. This article reviews recent evidence on cardiometabolic risk 
factors and their management in youth with T1D.
RECENT FINDINGS: Adolescents with T1D show early signs of vascular 
complications, as a result of several cardiometabolic risk factors. Poor 
glycemic control is one of the main risk factors and the main target of 
treatment. However, only a minority of adolescents with T1D reaches recommended 
targets for glycemic control. Hypertension, dyslipidemia, smoking, alcohol use, 
obesity and insulin resistance are other common cardiometabolic risk factors in 
this age group. Recent data confirm that screening for these risk factors is 
suboptimal and use of pharmacological interventions for hypertension and 
dyslipidemia remains low. Data on adjunctive noninsulin agents to improve 
glycemic control and other cardiometabolic risk factors are still lacking in 
this age group.
SUMMARY: Vascular complications and the associated mortality remain a major 
issue for youth with T1D. Better screening strategies for cardiometabolic risk 
factors and interventions are required to improve the long-term prognosis of 
youth with T1D.

DOI: 10.1097/MOP.0000000000000915
PMID: 32520825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2020 Jul 1;84 Suppl 1(1):S12-S21. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0000000000002384.

Strengthening Existing Laboratory-Based Systems vs. Investing in Point-of-Care 
Assays for Early Infant Diagnosis of HIV: A Model-Based Cost-Effectiveness 
Analysis.

McCann NC(1), Cohn J(2)(3), Flanagan C(1), Sacks E(4), Mukherjee S(4), Walensky 
RP(1)(5)(6)(7), Adetunji O(4), Maeka KK(8), Panella C(1), Chadambuka A(9), 
Mafaune H(9), Odhiambo C(10), Freedberg KA(1)(5)(6)(7), Ciaranello 
AL(1)(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical Practice Evaluation Center, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, MA.
(2)Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation, Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)Division of Infectious Disease, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.
(4)Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation, Washington, DC.
(5)Division of General Internal Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, MA.
(6)Division of Infectious Diseases, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA.
(7)Harvard University Center for AIDS Research, Boston, MA.
(8)Early Infant Diagnosis Department, National Microbiology Reference 
Laboratory, Harare Central Hospital, Harare, Zimbabwe.
(9)Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation, Harare, Zimbabwe; and.
(10)Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation, Nairobi, Kenya.

BACKGROUND: To improve early infant HIV diagnosis (EID) programs, options 
include replacing laboratory-based tests with point-of-care (POC) assays or 
investing in strengthened systems for sample transport and result return.
SETTING: We used the CEPAC-Pediatric model to examine clinical benefits and 
costs of 3 EID strategies in Zimbabwe for infants 6 weeks of age.
METHODS: We examined (1) laboratory-based EID (LAB), (2) strengthened 
laboratory-based EID (S-LAB), and (3) POC EID (POC). LAB/S-LAB and POC assays 
differed in sensitivity (LAB/S-LAB 100%, POC 96.9%) and specificity (LAB/S-LAB 
99.6%, POC 99.9%). LAB/S-LAB/POC algorithms also differed in: probability of 
result return (79%/91%/98%), time until result return (61/53/1 days), 
probability of initiating antiretroviral therapy (ART) after positive result 
(52%/71%/86%), and total cost/test ($18.10/$30.47/$30.71). We projected life 
expectancy (LE) and average lifetime per-person cost for all HIV-exposed 
infants. We calculated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) from 
discounted (3%/year) LE and costs in $/year-of-life saved (YLS), defining cost 
effective as an ICER <$580/YLS (reflecting programs providing 2 vs. 1 ART 
regimens). In sensitivity analyses, we varied differences between S-LAB and POC 
in result return probability, result return time, ART initiation probability, 
and cost.
RESULTS: For infants who acquired HIV, LAB/S-LAB/POC led to projected one-year 
survival of 67.3%/69.9%/75.6% and undiscounted LE of 21.74/22.71/24.49 years. 
For all HIV-exposed infants, undiscounted LE was 63.35/63.38/63.43 years, at 
discounted lifetime costs of $200/220/240 per infant. In cost-effectiveness 
analysis, S-LAB was an inefficient use of resources; the ICER of POC vs. LAB was 
$830/YLS.
CONCLUSIONS: Current EID programs will attain greater benefit from investing in 
POC EID rather than strengthening laboratory-based systems.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0000000000002384
PMCID: PMC7302325
PMID: 32520910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


612. Br J Surg. 2020 Nov;107(12):1686-1694. doi: 10.1002/bjs.11715. Epub 2020 Jun
10.

Cost-effectiveness of sigmoid resection with primary anastomosis or end 
colostomy for perforated diverticulitis: an analysis of the randomized Ladies 
trial.

Lambrichts DPV(1)(2), van Dieren S(2), Bemelman WA(2), Lange JF(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Surgery, Erasmus University Medical Centre, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(2)Amsterdam University Medical Centre, AMC, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)IJsselland Hospital, Capelle aan den IJssel, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Several studies have been published favouring sigmoidectomy with 
primary anastomosis over Hartmann's procedure for perforated diverticulitis with 
purulent or faecal peritonitis (Hinchey grade III or IV), but cost-related 
outcomes were rarely reported. The present study aimed to evaluate costs and 
cost-effectiveness within the DIVA arm of the Ladies trial.
METHODS: This was a cost-effectiveness analysis of the DIVA arm of the 
multicentre randomized Ladies trial, comparing primary anastomosis over 
Hartmann's procedure for Hinchey grade III or IV diverticulitis. During 12-month 
follow-up, data on resource use, indirect costs (Short Form Health and Labour 
Questionnaire) and quality of life (EuroQol Five Dimensions) were collected 
prospectively, and analysed according to the modified intention-to-treat 
principle. Main outcomes were incremental cost-effectiveness (ICER) and 
cost-utility (ICUR) ratios, expressed as the ratio of incremental costs and the 
incremental probability of being stoma-free or incremental quality-adjusted 
life-years respectively.
RESULTS: Overall, 130 patients were included, of whom 64 were allocated to 
primary anastomosis (46 and 18 with Hinchey III and IV disease respectively) and 
66 to Hartmann's procedure (46 and 20 respectively). Overall mean costs per 
patient were lower for primary anastomosis (€20 544, 95 per cent c.i. 19 569 to 
21 519) than Hartmann's procedure (€28 670, 26 636 to 30 704), with a mean 
difference of €-8126 (-14 660 to -1592). The ICER was €-39 094 (95 per cent 
bias-corrected and accelerated (BCa) c.i. -1213 to -116), indicating primary 
anastomosis to be more cost-effective. The ICUR was €-101 435 (BCa c.i. 
-1 113 264 to 251 840).
CONCLUSION: Primary anastomosis is more cost-effective than Hartmann's procedure 
for perforated diverticulitis with purulent or faecal peritonitis.

Publisher: ANTECEDENTES: Se han publicado varios estudios en favor de la 
sigmoidectomía con anastomosis primaria (primary anastomosis, PA) sobre la 
intervención de Hartmann (Hartmann’s procedure, HP) para la diverticulitis 
perforada con peritonitis purulenta o fecal (Hinchey grado III ó IV), pero 
apenas existe información de los resultados relacionados con el coste. Por lo 
tanto, el presente estudio tuvo como objetivo evaluar los costes y el coste 
efectividad del brazo DIVA en el ensayo clínico Ladies. MÉTODOS: Se realizó un 
análisis de coste-efectividad del brazo DIVA del ensayo clínico multicéntrico y 
aleatorizado Ladies, que comparó PA y HP para la diverticulitis Hinchey de grado 
III ó IV. Durante un seguimiento de 12 meses, se recogieron datos 
prospectivamente del uso de recursos, costes indirectos (SF-HLQ) y calidad de 
vida (EQ-5D), y se analizaron de acuerdo con una modificación del principio por 
intención de tratar. Los resultados principales fueron la relación 
coste-efectividad incremental (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, ICER) y la 
relación coste-utilidad incremental (incremental cost-utility ratio, ICUR), 
expresados como la razón del incremento de costes y el incremento en la 
probabilidad de no requerir estoma o años de vida ajustados por calidad, 
respectivamente.
RESULTADOS: En total, se incluyeron 130 pacientes, 64 de los cuales fueron 
asignados a PA (Hinchey III/IV: 46/20) y 66 a HP (Hinchey III/IV: 46/18). Los 
costes medios globales por paciente fueron más bajos para la PA (€20.544 (i.c. 
del 95%: 19.569 a 21.519)) en comparación con HP (€ 28.670 (i.c. del 95%: 26.636 
a 30.704)), con una diferencia media de €−8.126 (i.c. del 95% −14.660 a 
−1.592)). Además, se observó un ICER de € −39.094 (95% bias-corrected and 
accelerated boodstrap confidence interval, BCaCI −1.213 a −116), lo que indica 
que PA es más coste efectiva. El ICUR fue € −101.435 (BCaCI del 95%: −1.113.264 
a 251.840). CONCLUSIÓN: La anastomosis primaria es más rentable que el 
procedimiento de Hartmann para la diverticulitis perforada con peritonitis 
purulenta o fecal.

© 2020 The Authors. British Journal of Surgery published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd on behalf of BJS Society Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.11715
PMCID: PMC7687276
PMID: 32521053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Midwifery. 2020 Sep;88:102762. doi: 10.1016/j.midw.2020.102762. Epub 2020
May  30.

Psychological factors and maternal-fetal attachment in relation to epidural 
choice.

Smorti M(1), Ponti L(2), Simoncini T(3), Pancetti F(4), Mauri G(5), Gemignani 
A(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical, Medical and Molecular Pathology and Critical Care 
Medicine, University of Pisa, Italy. Electronic address: 
martina.smorti@unipi.it.
(2)Department of Education, Languages, Intercultures, Literatures and 
Psychology, University of Florence, Italy. Electronic address: 
pontilucia@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Reproductive Medicine and Child Development, Division of 
Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Pisa, Italy. Electronic address: 
tommaso.simoncini@med.unipi.it.
(4)Division of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Department of Clinical and 
Experimental Medicine, University of Pisa, Italy. Electronic address: 
f.pancetti@ao-pisa.toscana.it.
(5)Department of Surgical, Medical and Molecular Pathology and Critical Care 
Medicine, University of Pisa, Italy.
(6)Department of Surgical, Medical and Molecular Pathology and Critical Care 
Medicine, University of Pisa, Italy. Electronic address: 
angelo.gemignani@unipi.it.

INTRODUCTION: A woman's first childbirth is an event of great importance to her 
life, involving her transition to parenthood. Many studies have analyzed the 
roles of depression, anxiety and fear of childbirth linked to childbirth 
expectations and the consequent choice of an epidural to avoid pain. Few studies 
have investigated the predictor role of maternal-fetal attachment on the choice 
of epidural.
OBJECTIVE: Explore, in a sample of low-risk pregnant nulliparous women, 
differences regarding the preference, or not, of epidural for vaginal 
childbirth.
DESIGN AND SETTING: 87 nulliparous women, aged 24 to 44 years of age, were 
recruited in the maternity ward of a public hospital of the metropolitan area of 
Tuscany (Italy) during the 3rd trimester of gestation. Participants were asked 
to complete the Pregnancy Related Anxiety Questionnaire-R, Wijma Delivery 
Expectancy Questionnaire, Centrality of Events Scale, and Prenatal Attachment 
Inventory.
FINDINGS: Multivariate analyses of variance showed that women who chose delivery 
without epidural reported lower levels of fear of childbirth and anxiety, and 
higher levels of centrality of pregnancy and prenatal attachment to unborn 
child, than women who chose epidural.
KEY CONCLUSIONS: Our data highlight the importance that medical staff focus on 
the maternal bond, to help future mothers have the best possible childbirth 
experience.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.midw.2020.102762
PMID: 32521408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or 
financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest.


614. J Pers Med. 2020 Jun 8;10(2):48. doi: 10.3390/jpm10020048.

Personalized Nursing: How Life Satisfaction and Occupational Burnout Influence 
New Competences of Polish Nurses.

Bartosiewicz A(1)(2), Łuszczki E(1)(2), Dereń K(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Sciences, Medical College of Rzeszow University, 35-959 
Rzeszow, Poland.
(2)Centre for Innovative Research in Medical and Natural Sciences, University of 
Rzeszow, 35-310 Rzeszow, Poland.

Nursing around the world is developing very dynamically and nurses are 
undertaking increasingly complex tasks. The extension of entitlements for nurses 
in Poland in the area of writing prescriptions and referrals for diagnostic 
tests seems to be a response to the development and changes occurring in this 
profession. This will improve the standards of patient care, increase access to 
medical services and improve the professional status of this group. The aim of 
this study was to analyze the opinions of nurses regarding their preparedness 
for administering prescriptions and referrals for diagnostic tests depending on 
their sense of life satisfaction and the level of occupational burnout. The 
study was conducted among primary care nurses using a survey technique, using a 
standardized scale of life satisfaction and a scale to measure burnout. In 
addition, this study used a proprietary survey questionnaire containing 
questions regarding the self-assessment of preparedness for new competences. The 
results showed that nurses do not feel well prepared for new tasks. The levels 
of life satisfaction and burnout of the nurses surveyed significantly influenced 
confidence regarding their preparedness for writing prescriptions and referrals 
for diagnostic tests. Polish nurses have a very cautious attitude towards new 
competences. However, this is a breakthrough and the first step towards 
approving the role of an advanced practice nurse in our country.

DOI: 10.3390/jpm10020048
PMCID: PMC7354610
PMID: 32521688

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


615. Immunotherapy. 2020 Jul;12(10):705-713. doi: 10.2217/imt-2020-0036. Epub
2020  Jun 11.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of atezolizumab plus nab-paclitaxel for untreated 
metastatic triple-negative breast cancer.

Li J(1), Zhang T(1)(2)(3), Lu P(1), Zhao J(4), Chen L(5), Jiang J(1)(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, China.
(2)International Cooperative Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine 
Modernization & Innovative Drug Development of Chinese Ministry of Education 
(MOE), Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, China.
(3)Guangzhou Huabo Biopharmaceutical Research Institute, 510010, China.
(4)Department of Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Jinan University, 
Guangzhou 510632, China.
(5)Drug Clinical Trial Institution, The First Affiliated Hospital, Jinan 
University, Guangzhou 510632, China.
(6)Dongguan Institute of Jinan University, Dongguan 523808, China.

Aim: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of atezolizumab plus nab-paclitaxel 
(ANP) in the first-line treatment of metastatic triple-negative breast cancer 
(TNBC). Materials & methods: We developed a Markov model to evaluate the cost 
and effectiveness of ANP versus nab-paclitaxel in the first-line treatment of 
metastatic TNBC. Lifetime costs, life-years (LYs) and quality-adjusted LYs 
(QALYs) were estimated. Results: ANP provided an additional 0.16 QALYs (0.24 
LYs) compared with nab-paclitaxel in intention-to-treat population. The 
corresponding incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $786,131 per QALY gained. 
However, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio decreased to $361,218 per QALY 
gained in the PD-L1 positive subgroup analysis. Conclusion: From the perspective 
of a US-payer, ANP is estimated not to be cost-effective in the first-line 
treatment of metastatic TNBC.

DOI: 10.2217/imt-2020-0036
PMID: 32522057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Transl Psychiatry. 2020 May 28;10(1):167. doi: 10.1038/s41398-020-0847-1.

America's opioid crisis: the need for an integrated public health approach.

Blanco C(1), Wiley TRA(2), Lloyd JJ(2), Lopez MF(2), Volkow ND(2).

Author information:
(1)National Institute on Drug Abuse, Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA. 
carlos.blanco2@nih.gov.
(2)National Institute on Drug Abuse, Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA.

Continued increases in overdose deaths and recent declines in life expectancy 
call for need to adopt comprehensive public health approaches to the United 
States opioid crisis and to establish an infrastructure to avert future crises. 
Successfully addressing the challenges posed by the crisis requires a 
translational, integrated approach that combines the contribution of 
neuroscience, pharmacology, epidemiology, treatment services and prevention. It 
also is critical to integrate interventions across settings, including 
healthcare, justice, education and social service systems. This review 
highlights four interconnected themes: (1) social determinants of health and 
disease; (2) person-centered approaches for prevention and treatment; (3) 
bridging the gap between implementation science and practice; and (4) using data 
to build learning systems of care, relevant to public health approaches to 
address the opioid crisis. We discuss how across these four themes taking into 
account the influence of developmental factors on brain function and sensitivity 
to environmental stimuli including drugs, addressing the complex interactions 
between biological and social factors, and promoting an ongoing dialogue across 
disciplines and settings will help accelerate public health advances that are 
evidenced based and sustainable to address the current opioid crisis and avert 
future ones.

DOI: 10.1038/s41398-020-0847-1
PMCID: PMC7286889
PMID: 32522999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


617. Indian J Surg Oncol. 2020 Jun;11(2):308-312. doi:
10.1007/s13193-020-01071-0.  Epub 2020 Apr 17.

Classification of Leptomeningeal Metastases from Solid Organ Malignancies and 
Clinical Outcomes: Series from a Cancer Research Centre.

Deepak S(1), Lima A(1), Rajat S(1), Meenu W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology & Hematology, Max Superspeciality Hospital, IP 
extension, New Delhi, 110092 India.

Leptomeningeal metastases (LMs) are a critical neurological manifestation of 
solid organ malignancies. Early diagnosis and prompt treatment is necessary to 
improve outcomes. We classified LM on the basis of cytological or histological 
and imaging studies. A total of 14 patients of LM from solid organ malignancies 
diagnosed between July 2016 and December 2018 were included in the series. LM 
was classified based on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cytology and magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) findings. Survival outcomes were noted. LM from 
carcinoma of breast and lung accounted for most of the cases. Type I LM was seen 
in 12 patients while 2 accounted for type II LM. Median overall survival (OS) 
was 40.5 days. Newer-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy seems 
promising in the treatment of LM. Classification of LM based on 
cytology/histology and imaging findings allows early diagnosis and treatment. 
Newer-generation TKIs should be used for the treatment of LM if indicated.

© Indian Association of Surgical Oncology 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s13193-020-01071-0
PMCID: PMC7260319
PMID: 32523280

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of InterestThe authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


618. Eur J Case Rep Intern Med. 2020 May 25;7(6):001736. doi:
10.12890/2020_001736.  eCollection 2020.

Should the Management of Embolic Stroke in the Elderly Be Changed if They Also 
Have COVID-19?

Seabra C(1), Silva B(1), Fagundes V(1), Rocha J(1), Nogueira L(1), Mesquita 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centro Hospitalar Tâmega e Sousa, Penafiel, Portugal.

INTRODUCTION: A strong association between stroke and atrial fibrillation (AF) 
has been demonstrated. Anticoagulation for the prevention of stroke in high-risk 
patients has the benefit of improving the life expectancy, quality of life, 
autonomy and social functioning of the patient. The COVID-19 pandemic poses 
challenges for stroke patients because of the association between SARS-CoV-2 
infection and thromboembolic risk.
CASE DESCRIPTION: We describe the case of an 84-year-old female patient admitted 
due to an embolic stroke and non-anticoagulated AF. Her admission symptoms were 
sensory-motor aphasia and severe right limb paresis with an NIHSS score of 24. 
The diagnosis of embolic stroke (namely, total anterior circulation infarct; 
TACI) was made. Her stroke was extensive so she was not started on 
anticoagulation. During hospitalization, new embolic events occurred and a 
concomitant diagnosis of COVID-19 was made with progressive respiratory 
dysfunction followed by multiorgan failure. The patient died despite appropriate 
treatment.
DISCUSSION: The prognosis of elderly patients with cardioembolic stroke depends 
on anticoagulation administration. The NIHSS score on admission of our patient 
meant anticoagulation therapy was not appropriate. The diagnosis of COVID-19 
contributed to the patient's death.
LEARNING POINTS: Anticoagulation should be considered in stroke patients with 
total infarction and atrial fibrillation.There is an association between 
COVID-19 and thromboembolic stroke.Elderly patients with stroke and COVID-19 are 
at higher risk of death.

© EFIM 2020.

DOI: 10.12890/2020_001736
PMCID: PMC7279903
PMID: 32523932

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interests: The Authors declare that 
there are no competing interests.


619. Curr Atheroscler Rep. 2020 Jun 10;22(7):29. doi: 10.1007/s11883-020-00849-5.

Management of Structural Heart Disease and Acute Coronary Syndromes in the 
COVID-19 Pandemic.

Giordano A(1), Biondi-Zoccai G(2)(3), Frati G(4)(5), Bartorelli AL(6).

Author information:
(1)Unità Operativa di Interventistica Cardiovascolare, Pineta Grande Hospital, 
Castel Volturno, Italy.
(2)Department of Medical-Surgical Sciences and Biotechnologies, Sapienza 
University of Rome, Corso della Repubblica 79, 04100, Latina, Italy. 
giuseppe.biondizoccai@uniroma1.it.
(3)Mediterranea Cardiocentro, Napoli, Italy. giuseppe.biondizoccai@uniroma1.it.
(4)Department of Medical-Surgical Sciences and Biotechnologies, Sapienza 
University of Rome, Corso della Repubblica 79, 04100, Latina, Italy.
(5)IRCCS NEUROMED, Pozzilli, Italy.
(6)Centro Cardiologico Monzino, IRCCS and Department of Biomedical and Clinical 
Sciences "Luigi Sacco", University of Milan, Milan, Italy.

Transcatheter interventions for structural heart disease (SHD) now represent an 
effective alternative to surgery in selected patients. A clear premise is that 
delay in or neglect of treating patients in need of SHD intervention is 
associated with unavoidable morbidity and mortality because many of them have 
life-threatening conditions. However, the recent outbreak of 
coronavirus-associated disease-2019 (COVID-19) is placing an unprecedented 
strain on patients, physicians and world healthcare systems that resulted in 
deferral of elective and semi-elective procedures, such as SHD, and delay in the 
treatment of patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS). We hereby present the 
case for a focused resumption of transcatheter SHD interventions in selected 
centers, in order to preserve patient safety and avoid that death rate will 
extend far beyond that directly associated with COVID-19. A similar approach 
should be applied to the invasive management of ACS. Indeed, a proactive and 
vigilant stance on managing SHD and ACS is crucial, especially in the context of 
the COVID-19 pandemic, when the risk of overlooking severely sick patients or 
postponing life-saving treatments is high. If such corrective measures are not 
put into effect, we may expect in the near future an excess of avoidable 
fatalities indirectly due to COVID-19 but truly caused by cardiovascular 
diseases, as well as an exceedingly large number of patients with severe heart 
failure leading to shorter life expectancy, reduced quality of life and 
increased healthcare cost.

DOI: 10.1007/s11883-020-00849-5
PMCID: PMC7283421
PMID: 32524266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


620. Phys Eng Sci Med. 2020 Jun;43(2):493-503. doi: 10.1007/s13246-020-00849-4.
Epub  2020 Feb 10.

Patient selection for proton therapy: a radiobiological fuzzy Markov model 
incorporating robust plan analysis.

Austin AM(1), Douglass MJJ(2)(3), Nguyen GT(4), Penfold SN(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physics, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, 5005, Australia. 
annabelle.austin@adelaide.edu.au.
(2)Department of Physics, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, 5005, Australia.
(3)Department of Medical Physics, Royal Adelaide Hospital, Adelaide, SA, 5000, 
Australia.
(4)School of Mathematical Sciences, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, 5005, 
Australia.

While proton therapy can offer increased sparing of healthy tissue compared with 
X-ray therapy, it can be difficult to predict whether a benefit can be expected 
for an individual patient. Predictive modelling may aid in this respect. 
However, the predictions of these models can be affected by uncertainties in 
radiobiological model parameters and in planned dose. The aim of this work is to 
present a Markov model that incorporates these uncertainties to compare clinical 
outcomes for individualised proton and X-ray therapy treatments. A 
time-inhomogeneous fuzzy Markov model was developed which estimates the response 
of a patient to a given treatment plan in terms of quality adjusted life years. 
These are calculated using the dose-dependent probabilities of tumour control 
and toxicities as transition probabilities in the model. Dose-volume data 
representing multiple isotropic patient set-up uncertainties and range 
uncertainties (for proton therapy) are included to model dose delivery 
uncertainties. The model was retrospectively applied to an example patient as a 
demonstration. When uncertainty in the radiobiological model parameter was 
considered, the model predicted that proton therapy would result in an improved 
clinical outcome compared with X-ray therapy. However, when dose delivery 
uncertainty was included, there was no difference between the two treatments. By 
incorporating uncertainties in the predictive modelling calculations, the fuzzy 
Markov concept was found to be well suited to providing a more holistic 
comparison of individualised treatment outcomes for proton and X-ray therapy. 
This may prove to be useful in model-based patient selection strategies.

DOI: 10.1007/s13246-020-00849-4
PMID: 32524433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Int J Clin Pharm. 2020 Aug;42(4):1175-1183. doi: 10.1007/s11096-020-01076-3.
 Epub 2020 Jun 11.

Cost-effectiveness of atezolizumab plus chemotherapy for advanced non-small-cell 
lung cancer.

Lin S(1), Luo S(1), Zhong L(2), Lai S(1), Zeng D(1), Rao X(1), Huang P(3), Weng 
X(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical 
University, Chazhong Road NO. 20, Fuzhou, Fujian, People's Republic of China.
(2)College of Pharmacy, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical 
University, Chazhong Road NO. 20, Fuzhou, Fujian, People's Republic of China. 
2363869908@qq.com.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical 
University, Chazhong Road NO. 20, Fuzhou, Fujian, People's Republic of China. 
wxh001@fjmu.edu.cn.

Background Adding atezolizumab to carboplatin/nab-paclitaxel improved 
progression-free survival and overall survival in patients with advanced 
non-squamous non-small-cell lung cancer. However, estimating the economy of 
atezolizumab/carboplatin/nab-paclitaxel is urgent on account of the high cost of 
atezolizumab. Objective This study aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
atezolizumab plus carboplatin/nab- paclitaxel for untreated advanced 
non-squamous non-small-cell lung cancer from the United States payer 
perspective. Setting This study was based on randomized clinical trial data from 
the IMpower130 (NCT02367781) published in Lancet Oncology (May 2019). Method A 
Markov model was constructed to estimate the health expenditure on atezolizumab 
in combination with carboplatin/nab-paclitaxel for advanced non-small-cell lung 
cancer treatment. Drug costs were collected from Red Book Wholesale Acquisition 
Cost, and health state utility values were obtained from the literature. 
Uncertainty was evaluated via one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses. 
Main outcome measure The main outcomes were cost, life years, quality-adjusted 
life years, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. Results Over a 10-year 
horizon, atezolizumab/carboplatin/nab-paclitaxel treatment was associated with 
an expected 1.76 life years and 0.99 quality-adjusted life years compared to the 
1.21 life years and 0.67 quality-adjusted life years for 
carboplatin/nab-paclitaxel alone. Compared to carboplatin/nab-paclitaxel, 
atezolizumab/carboplatin/nab-paclitaxel produced an incremental cost of 
$105,617. The resultant incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $333,199 per 
quality-adjusted life year, which exceeded the willingness-to-pay threshold of 
$180,000 per quality-adjusted life year. The price of atezolizumab and utility 
values were the parameters that greatly impacted the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio. Carboplatin/nab-paclitaxel exhibited 98.6% probability 
of being a cost-effective treatment option compared to 
atezolizumab/carboplatin/nab-paclitaxel at a willingness-to-pay of $180,000 per 
quality-adjusted life year. However, reducing atezolizumab acquisition cost by 
43.4% could make atezolizumab/carboplatin/nab-paclitaxel more cost-effective 
than carboplatin/nab-paclitaxel. Conclusion Adding atezolizumab to 
carboplatin/nab-paclitaxel was not cost-effective for advanced non-squamous 
non-small-cell lung cancer in the base-case scenario. Decreasing atezolizumab 
acquisition cost might enhance the cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1007/s11096-020-01076-3
PMID: 32524512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. J Fish Biol. 2020 Sep;97(3):708-719. doi: 10.1111/jfb.14425. Epub 2020 Jul
8.

Life-history, exploitation and extinction risk of the data-poor Baraka's whipray 
(Maculabatis ambigua) in small-scale tropical fisheries.

Temple AJ(1), Stead SM(1)(2), Jiddawi N(3)(4), Wambiji N(5), Dulvy NK(6), 
Barrowclift E(1), Berggren P(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Natural and Environmental Sciences, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne, UK.
(2)Institute of Aquaculture, University of Stirling, Stirling, UK.
(3)Institute of Marine Sciences, Dar es Salaam University, Dar es Salaam, 
Tanzania.
(4)Institute of Fisheries Research Zanzibar, Ministry of Agriculture, Natural 
Resources, Livestock and Fisheries, Stone Town, Zanzibar, Tanzania.
(5)Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute, Mombasa, Kenya.
(6)Earth to Ocean Research Group, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, British 
Columbia, Canada.

The Baraka's whipray (Maculabatis ambigua) is a major constituent of small-scale 
fisheries catch in the south-western Indian Ocean. Despite this, little is known 
of its life-history or exploitation status. We provide the first estimates of 
crucial life-history parameters and the maximum intrinsic population growth rate 
rmax , using specimens collected from small-scale fisheries landings in Kenya, 
Zanzibar and Madagascar (with northern Madagascar representing a range extension 
for this species). We assess the relative risk of overexploitation by combining 
rmax with estimates of total Z, fishing F, and natural M mortality, and an 
estimate of the exploitation ratio E. The data indicate that Baraka's whipray is 
a medium-sized, fast-growing, early maturing species, with a relatively long 
lifespan. This results in a high rmax relative to many other elasmobranchs, 
which when combined with estimates of F suggests that the species is not at 
imminent risk of extinction. Yet, estimates of exploitation ratio E indicate 
likely overfishing for the species, with full recruitment to the fishery being 
post-maturation and exploitation occurring across a broad range of age and size 
classes. Thus, Baraka's whipray is unlikely to be biologically sustainable in 
the face of current fisheries pressures. This paper makes an important 
contribution to filling the gap in available data and is a step towards 
developing evidence-based fisheries management for this species. Further, it 
demonstrates a simple and widely applicable framework for assessment of 
data-poor elasmobranch exploitation status and extinction risk.

© 2020 The Authors. Journal of Fish Biology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd 
on behalf of The Fisheries Society of the British Isles.

DOI: 10.1111/jfb.14425
PMID: 32524614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Heart Surg Forum. 2020 May 14;23(3):E310-E314. doi: 10.1532/hsf.2991.

Investigation of the Predictive Values of Triglyceride/HDL Cholesterol Ratio and 
Whole Blood Viscosity with Regard to Severe Peripheral or Carotid Artery Disease 
in Patients Scheduled for Coronary Bypass.

Engin M(1), Güvenç O(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, University of Health Sciences, Mehmet 
Akif İnan Training and Research Hospital, Şanlıurfa, Turkey.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Medical Faculty of Uludağ University, 
Bursa, Turkey.

BACKGROUND: The incidence of atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases, which 
constitute an important disease group, is expected to rise with increasing life 
expectancy. The aim of this study was to investigate the predictive values of 
triglyceride/HDL cholesterol (TG/HDL-C) ratio and whole blood viscosity on 
possible severe carotid or peripheral arterial disease in patients who were 
admitted to our clinic and scheduled for coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) 
surgery.
METHODS: This study retrospectively examined 299 patients who were admitted to 
our clinic and scheduled for CABG between August 1, 2015, and August 1, 2019. 
Patients with severe carotid or peripheral arterial disease were included in 
group 2; those in whom peripheral arterial disease and stenosis were not 
detected were included in group 1.
RESULTS: Group 1 consisted of 255 patients, mean (± standard deviation) age 58.1 
± 8.9 years; the 44 patients in group 2 had a mean age of 64.1 ± 10.6 years (P = 
.018). The incidence of diabetes mellitus and tobacco use were significantly 
higher in group 2 (P < .001 and P = .034, respectively). Triglyceride values, 
TG/HDL-C, and whole blood viscosity at high and low shear rates were 
significantly higher in group 2 (P = .017, P < .001, P < .001, and P < .001, 
respectively). Receiver operator characteristic analysis revealed that the 
cutoff value of TG/HDL-C was 3.2 with 77% sensitivity and 72% specificity; that 
of high-shear-rate viscosity was 16.1 with 73% sensitivity and 69% specificity; 
and that of low-shear-rate viscosity was 59.2 with 70% sensitivity and 63% 
specificity.
CONCLUSION: It is possible to predict severe additional arterial diseases in 
patients scheduled for CABG with whole blood viscosity and TG/HDL-C ratios, both 
of which can be obtained with simple blood tests.

DOI: 10.1532/hsf.2991
PMID: 32524970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Turk Patoloji Derg. 2020;36(3):211-217. doi: 10.5146/tjpath.2020.01490.

Male Breast Cancer: Clinicopathological, Immunohistochemical and Radiological 
Study.

Hasbay B(1), Aka Bolat F, Aytac HÖ, Kus M, Pourbagher A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Başkent University, Faculty of Medicine, ADANA, 
TURKEY.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the pathological and radiological features, 
immunohistochemical profile and treatment methods of primary male breast 
carcinoma cases diagnosed at our center.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: The pathology archive between 2006 and 2019 was reviewed 
and the data of 27 male patients diagnosed as primary breast cancer were 
retrospectively evaluated.
RESULTS: The age of the patients ranged between 40-86 years. The left breast was 
involved in 17 patients. The mean tumor diameter was 2.35 ± 1.09 cm. Of the 27 
cases, 8 were dead and 19 were alive. The mean follow-up duration was 37.45 ± 
24.84 months. The mean estimated life expectancy was 65±14.7 months. The most 
common complaint was a swelling in the breast. The time interval between the 
onset of complaints and admittance to hospital ranged from three months to two 
years. The most common histopathological diagnosis was invasive carcinoma - no 
special type. The most common surgical procedure was mastectomy with lymph node 
dissection. Nine patients had metastatic lymph nodes. In terms of the hormone 
profiles, 24 were Estrogen receptor positive, 21 were Progesterone receptor 
positive and six were Her2/neu positive. Three patients had triple-negative 
tumors.
CONCLUSION: Male breast carcinoma is a rare disease but its frequency has been 
increasing recently. As breast cancer is more commonly attributed to women, the 
diagnosis is usually delayed until later stages in males. Public awareness 
should therefore be increased and breast cancer should be considered in the 
differential diagnosis especially in the presence of breast swelling and 
complaints related to the breast skin so that the appropriate biopsy can be 
obtained without delay.

DOI: 10.5146/tjpath.2020.01490
PMCID: PMC10510604
PMID: 32525214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No conflict of interest was declared by the 
authors.


625. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2020 Oct;35(10):1228-1232. doi: 10.1002/gps.5360.
Epub  2020 Jul 3.

Continuation Sessions of Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT-C) vs. 
Treatment as Usual in Late-Life Depression and Anxiety: An Open-Label Extension 
Study.

Dikaios E(1), Escobar S(1)(2), Nassim M(1), Su CL(3), Torres-Platas SG(1)(2), 
Rej S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)McGill Meditation and Mind-Body Medicine Research Clinic (MMMM-RC) and 
GeriPARTy Research Group, Jewish General Hospital, Montreal, Canada.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill 
University, Quebec, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) is a novel treatment for 
depression. Our published randomized controlled trial shows that MBCT improves 
symptoms of late-life depression (LLD) and anxiety (LLA). We now examine whether 
continuation sessions of MBCT (MBCT-C) can prevent LLD/LLA symptom recurrence.
METHODS/DESIGN: Following an 8-week MBCT intervention, we compared patients who 
attended open-label weekly 1-hour MBCT-C for another 26 weeks (n = 10) vs those 
who did not (n = 17) for change in depressive and anxiety symptoms.
RESULTS: While there were no significant differences between groups on 
depressive or anxiety symptom severities between 8- and 34- weeks (Cohen's d = 
0.045), we observed a small clinical effect of MBCT-C on symptoms of anxiety (d 
= 0.29).
CONCLUSIONS: These preliminary results suggest that MBCT-C may be somewhat 
beneficial for symptoms of LLA, but not for LLD. Healthcare providers should 
consider what is clinically feasible before investing time and resources into 
MBCT-C in older adults with depression and/or anxiety.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.5360
PMID: 32525235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2020 May;28(3):349-354.
doi:  10.32687/0869-866X-2020-28-3-349-354.

[The complex evaluation of target indices population health in the Central 
Federal Okrug of the Russian Federation].

[Article in Russian]

Khabriev RU(1), Schepin VO(2), Mirgorodskaya OV(1).

Author information:
(1)N. A. Semashko National Research Institute of Public Health, 105064, Moscow, 
Russia.
(2)N. A. Semashko National Research Institute of Public Health, 105064, Moscow, 
Russia, shchepin131@mail.ru.

The article presents the results of analysis of values and dynamics of changes 
in indicators of fertility rate, expected life expectancy, total and infant 
mortality, able-bodied mortality, mortality of circulatory system diseases, 
neoplasms, and road traffic accidents in 18 subjects of the Central Federal 
Okrug of the Russian Federation in 2015-2018. The results of comparative 
analysis of factual values of mentioned indicators with values of target 
indicators approved by the "Health care Development Strategy in the Russian 
Federation for period up to 2025" (2019) are presented. The necessary scope of 
correction of existing discrepancies are established. Reducing by 20% indicators 
of mortality of able-bodied age, circulatory system diseases and road accidents 
is needed to reach target values in more than half of the subjects of the Okrug 
for each cause of death. Based on the results of comprehensive ranking of 
analyzed health indicators, rating position of each subject in the Central 
Federal Okrug is determined. For the subjects of the Central Federal District, 
the analysis established significant differences in indicators values, volume of 
their changes, possibilities of achieving target goals, rating position and 
inter-territorial gaps. It is demonstrated that differences in extreme values of 
summing of ranks of the subjects of the Central Federal District increased up to 
5.1 times in 2015, up to 5.5 times in 2016, up to 6.0 times in 2017 and up to 
6.2 times in 2018 that substantiate marked tendency of increasing territorial 
differentiation.

DOI: 10.32687/0869-866X-2020-28-3-349-354
PMID: 32526107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2020 May;28(3):372-376.
doi:  10.32687/0869-866X-2020-28-3-372-376.

[The characteristics of life-style of population of Vladivostok].

[Article in Russian]

Malykhina AI(1), Gertanova EY(1), Kaerova EV(2)(3), Juravskaya NS(1)(4)(3), 
Dyakonova TM(3).

Author information:
(1)The Federal State Budget Educational Institution of Higher Education "The 
Pacific State Medical University" of Minzdrav of Russia, 690002, Vladivostok, 
Russia.
(2)The Federal State Budget Educational Institution of Higher Education "The 
Pacific State Medical University" of Minzdrav of Russia, 690002, Vladivostok, 
Russia, ekaerova@yandex.ru.
(3)The Federal State Budget Educational Institution of Higher Education "The 
Vladivostok State University of Economics and Service", 690014, Vladivostok, 
Russia.
(4)The Federal State Autonomous Educational Institution of Higher Education "The 
Far-Eastern Federal University", 690091, Vladivostok, Russia.

Over the past 10 years in the Russian Federation, the health of citizens has 
been steadily deteriorating: the level of natural population decline is 
increasing, and life expectancy is decreasing. When analyzing the causes of 
mortality according to the Federal State Statistics Service, it was revealed 
that most cases are noncommunicable diseases, their determinants are biological, 
the state of the environment, medical care, conditions and lifestyle of people. 
The aim of the study is to identify the degree of commitment of the population 
of the city of Vladivostok to a healthy lifestyle. A socio-hygienic study was 
carried out, which included a mass survey of residents of Vladivostok by random 
sampling. Issues related to the impact of conditions and lifestyles on public 
health have been studied. Results: Analysis of the research data showed that 19% 
of men and 6% of women (p<0.05) lacked interest in life. A study of the data 
showed that currently 66% of women and 44% of men use tobacco products (p<0.05), 
53% of women and 59% of men use alcohol (p<0.05), which are factors risk of 
noncommunicable socially significant diseases. The motivation for maintaining a 
healthy lifestyle of the population can be strengthened through systematic 
preventive measures to promote and maintain health.

DOI: 10.32687/0869-866X-2020-28-3-372-376
PMID: 32526111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2020 May;28(3):428-432.
doi:  10.32687/0869-866X-2020-28-3-428-432.

[The social partnership in sphere of health care modernization].

[Article in Russian]

Nizova LM(1), Kislitsyna IG(2).

Author information:
(1)The Federal State Budget Educational Institution of Higher Education "The 
Volga Region State Technological University", 424000, Yoshkar-Ola, Russia, 
nizova@yandex.ru.
(2)The Federal State Budget Educational Institution of Higher Education "The 
Volga Region State Technological University", 424000, Yoshkar-Ola, Russia.

The article considers the role of interdepartmental cooperation in modernization 
of health sector at the regional level exemplified by Mari El Republic. Based on 
data of study monitoring, the dynamics of medical and demographic indicators are 
determined. Over the past five years, life expectancy increased, patient 
satisfaction with medical care increased. Its accessibility increased in rural 
areas. The primary health care is provided in 49 outpatient clinics and in 207 
paramedic and midwifery centers, that meets the established standards. Against 
this background, the birth continues decreasing of birth rate and increasing of 
mortality because of diseases of blood circulation system and neoplasms. In 
order to more thoroughly study the state of health care and and taking into 
account requirements of the National Health Care Project, the sociological 
survey of two categories of respondents (patients and medical staff of the 
district hospital) was carried out. The indicators of demographic development 
are restrained by negative alterations in demographic structure of population, 
its aging and regressivity, decreasing of percentage of women of most active 
reproductive age and high mortality of men of able-bodied age. The social 
partnership of interested bodies and organizations involved in the reform and 
improvement of health care system can reduce severity of the above-mentioned 
problems. Statistical monitoring of implementation of requirements to 
accessibility and quality of medical care was carried out. The article presents 
original scheme of interaction between twelve ministries and departments of the 
Republic. The proposals of to improve quality and accessibility of medical care, 
the prestige of medical profession and implementation of healthy lifestyles are 
proposed.

DOI: 10.32687/0869-866X-2020-28-3-428-432
PMID: 32526122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Lancet Respir Med. 2020 Jun;8(6):585-596. doi:
10.1016/S2213-2600(20)30105-3.

Prevalence and attributable health burden of chronic respiratory diseases, 
1990-2017: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017.

GBD Chronic Respiratory Disease Collaborators.

Collaborators: Soriano JB, Kendrick PJ, Paulson KR, Gupta V, Abrams EM, Adedoyin 
RA, Adhikari TB, Advani SM, Agrawal A, Ahmadian E, Alahdab F, Aljunid SM, 
Altirkawi KA, Alvis-Guzman N, Anber NH, Andrei CL, Anjomshoa M, Ansari F, Antó 
JM, Arabloo J, Athari SM, Athari SS, Awoke N, Badawi A, Banoub JAM, Bennett DA, 
Bensenor IM, Berfield KSS, Bernstein RS, Bhattacharyya K, Bijani A, Brauer M, 
Bukhman G, Butt ZA, Cámera LA, Car J, Carrero JJ, Carvalho F, Castañeda-Orjuela 
CA, Choi JJ, Christopher DJ, Cohen AJ, Dandona L, Dandona R, Dang AK, Daryani A, 
de Courten B, Demeke FM, Demoz GT, De Neve JW, Desai R, Dharmaratne SD, Diaz D, 
Douiri A, Driscoll TR, Duken EE, Eftekhari A, Elkout H, Endries AY, Fadhil I, 
Faro A, Farzadfar F, Fernandes E, Filip I, Fischer F, Foroutan M, 
Garcia-Gordillo MA, Gebre AK, Gebremedhin KB, Gebremeskel GG, Gezae KE, Ghoshal 
AG, Gill PS, Gillum RF, Goudarzi H, Guo Y, Gupta R, Hailu GB, Hasanzadeh A, 
Hassen HY, Hay SI, Hoang CL, Hole MK, Horita N, Hosgood HD, Hostiuc M, Househ M, 
Ilesanmi OS, Ilic MD, Irvani SSN, Islam SMS, Jakovljevic M, Jamal AA, Jha RP, 
Jonas JB, Kabir Z, Kasaeian A, Kasahun GG, Kassa GM, Kefale AT, Kengne AP, 
Khader YS, Khafaie MA, Khan EA, Khan J, Khubchandani J, Kim YE, Kim YJ, Kisa S, 
Kisa A, Knibbs LD, Komaki H, Koul PA, Koyanagi A, Kumar GA, Lan Q, Lasrado S, 
Lauriola P, La Vecchia C, Le TT, Leigh J, Levi M, Li S, Lopez AD, Lotufo PA, 
Madotto F, Mahotra NB, Majdan M, Majeed A, Malekzadeh R, Mamun AA, Manafi N, 
Manafi F, Mantovani LG, Meharie BG, Meles HG, Meles GG, Menezes RG, Mestrovic T, 
Miller TR, Mini GK, Mirrakhimov EM, Moazen B, Mohammad KA, Mohammed S, Mohebi F, 
Mokdad AH, Molokhia M, Monasta L, Moradi M, Moradi G, Morawska L, Mousavi SM, 
Musa KI, Mustafa G, Naderi M, Naghavi M, Naik G, Nair S, Nangia V, Nansseu JR, 
Nazari J, Ndwandwe DE, Negoi RI, Nguyen TH, Nguyen CT, Nguyen HLT, Nixon MR, 
Ofori-Asenso R, Ogbo FA, Olagunju AT, Olagunju TO, Oren E, Ortiz JR, Owolabi MO, 
P A M, Pakhale S, Pana A, Panda-Jonas S, Park EK, Pham HQ, Postma MJ, Pourjafar 
H, Poustchi H, Radfar A, Rafiei A, Rahim F, Rahman MHU, Rahman MA, Rawaf S, 
Rawaf DL, Rawal L, Reiner RC Jr, Reitsma MB, Roever L, Ronfani L, Roro EM, 
Roshandel G, Rudd KE, Sabde YD, Sabour S, Saddik B, Safari S, Saleem K, Samy AM, 
Santric-Milicevic MM, Sao Jose BP, Sartorius B, Satpathy M, Savic M, Sawhney M, 
Sepanlou SG, Shaikh MA, Sheikh A, Shigematsu M, Shirkoohi R, Si S, Siabani S, 
Singh V, Singh JA, Soljak M, Somayaji R, Soofi M, Soyiri IN, Tefera YM, Temsah 
MH, Tesfay BE, Thakur JS, Toma AT, Tortajada-Girbés M, Tran KB, Tran BX, Tudor 
Car L, Ullah I, Vacante M, Valdez PR, van Boven JFM, Vasankari TJ, Veisani Y, 
Violante FS, Wagner GR, Westerman R, Wolfe CDA, Wondafrash DZ, Wondmieneh AB, 
Yonemoto N, Yoon SJ, Zaidi Z, Zamani M, Zar HJ, Zhang Y, Vos T.

Comment in
    Lancet Respir Med. 2020 Jun;8(6):531-533.

BACKGROUND: Previous attempts to characterise the burden of chronic respiratory 
diseases have focused only on specific disease conditions, such as chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or asthma. In this study, we aimed to 
characterise the burden of chronic respiratory diseases globally, providing a 
