10.1097/BRS.0000000000003539.

Update of Markov Model on the Cost-effectiveness of Nonpharmacologic 
Interventions for Chronic Low Back Pain Compared to Usual Care.

Herman PM(1), McBain RK, Broten N, Coulter ID.

Author information:
(1)RAND Corporation, Santa Monica, CA.

STUDY DESIGN: Markov model.
OBJECTIVE: Further validity test of a previously published model.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: The previous model was built using data from ten 
randomized trials and examined the 1-year effectiveness and cost-effectiveness 
of 17 nonpharmacologic interventions for chronic low back pain (CLBP), each 
compared to usual care alone. This update incorporated data from five additional 
trials.
METHODS: Based on transition probabilities that were estimated using 
patient-level trial data, a hypothetical cohort of CLBP patients transitioned 
over time among four defined health states: high-impact chronic pain with 
substantial activity limitations; higher (moderate-impact) and lower 
(low-impact) pain without activity limitations; and no pain. As patients 
transitioned among health states, they accumulated quality-adjusted life-years, 
as well as healthcare and productivity costs. Costs and effects were calculated 
incremental to each study's version of usual care.
RESULTS: From the societal perspective and assuming a typical patient mix (25% 
low-impact, 35% moderate-impact, and 40% high-impact chronic pain), most 
interventions-including those newly added-were cost-effective (<$50,000/QALY) 
and demonstrated cost savings. From the payer perspective, fewer were 
cost-saving, but the same number were cost-effective. Results for the new 
studies generally mirrored others using the same interventions-for example, 
cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and physical therapy. A new acupuncture study 
had similar effectiveness to other acupuncture studies, but higher usual care 
costs, resulting in higher cost savings. Two new yoga studies' results were 
similar, but both differed from those of the original yoga study. 
Mindfulness-based stress reduction was similar to CBT for a typical patient mix 
but was twice as effective for those with high-impact chronic pain.
CONCLUSION: Markov modeling facilitates comparisons across interventions not 
directly compared in trials, using consistent outcome measures after balancing 
the baseline mix of patients. Outcomes also differed by pain impact level, 
emphasizing the need to measure CLBP subgroups.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: N/A.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0000000000003539
PMCID: PMC7751339
PMID: 32516169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. PLoS One. 2020 Jun 9;15(6):e0234300. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0234300. 
eCollection 2020.

Years of potential life lost and productivity costs due to premature mortality 
from six priority diseases in Tanzania, 2006-2015.

Rumisha SF(1), George J(2), Bwana VM(3), Mboera LEG(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Medical Research, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.
(2)SACIDS Foundation for One Health, Sokoine University of Agriculture, 
Morogoro, Tanzania.
(3)National Institute for Medical Research, Amani Research Centre, Muheza, 
Tanzania.

BACKGROUND: Mortality statistics are traditionally used to quantify the burden 
of disease and to determine the relative importance of the various causes of 
death. Some of the most frequently used indices to quantify the burden of 
disease are the years of potential life lost (YPLL) and years of potential 
productive life lost (YPPLL). These two measures reflect the mortality trends in 
younger age groups and they provide a more accurate picture of premature 
mortality. This study was carried out to determine YPLL, YPPLL and cost of 
productivity lost (CPL) due to premature mortality caused by selected causes of 
deaths in Tanzania.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Malaria, respiratory diseases, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, 
cancers and injuries were selected for this analysis. The number of deaths by 
sex and age groups were obtained from hospital death registers and ICD-10 
reporting forms in 39 public hospitals in Tanzania, covering a period of 
2006-2015. The life expectancy method and human capital approach were used to 
estimate the YPLL, YPPLL and CPL due to premature mortality. During 2006-2015, 
malaria, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, respiratory diseases, HIV+tuberculosis, cancer 
and injury were responsible for a total of 96,834 hospital deaths, of which 
46.4% (n = 57,508) were among individuals in the productive age groups (15-64 
years). The reported deaths contributed to 2,850,928 YPLL (female = 1,326,724; 
male = 1,524,205) with an average of 29 years per death. The average YPLL among 
females (32) was higher than among males (28). Malaria (YPLL = 38 per death) 
accounted for over one-third (35%) of the total YPLL. There was a significant 
increase in YPLL due to the selected underlying causes of death over the 10-year 
period. Deaths from the selected causes resulted into 1,207,499 YPPLL (average = 
21 per death). Overall, HIV/AIDS contributed to the highest YPPLL (323,704), 
followed by malaria (243,490) and injuries (196,505). While there was a general 
decrease in YPPLL due to malaria, there was an increase of YPPLL due to 
HIV/AIDS, respiratory diseases, cancer and injuries during the 10-year period. 
The total CPL due to the six diseases was US$ 148,430,009 for 10 years. The 
overall CPL was higher among males than females by 29.1%. Over half (58%) of the 
losses were due to deaths among males. HIV/AIDS accounted for the largest 
(29.2%) CPL followed by malaria (17.8%) and respiratory diseases (14.6%). The 
CPL increased from US$11.4 million in 2006 to US$17.9 million in 2016.
CONCLUSIONS: The YPLL, YPPLL and CPL due to premature death associated with the 
six diseases in Tanzania are substantially high. While malaria accounted for 
highest YPLL, HIV/AIDS accounted for highest YPPLL and CPL. The overall CPL was 
higher among males than among females. Setting resource allocation priorities to 
malaria, HIV/AIDS and respiratory diseases that are responsible for the majority 
of premature deaths could potentially reduce the costs of productivity loss in 
Tanzania.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0234300
PMCID: PMC7282655
PMID: 32516340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that NO competing 
interests exist


590. Food Chem. 2020 Nov 1;329:127213. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2020.127213. Epub
2020  Jun 2.

Extension of postharvest shelf life of strawberries (Fragaria ananassa) using a 
coating of chitosan-whey protein isolate conjugate.

Muley AB(1), Singhal RS(2).

Author information:
(1)Food Engineering and Technology Department, Institute of Chemical Technology, 
Matunga, Mumbai 400019, India.
(2)Food Engineering and Technology Department, Institute of Chemical Technology, 
Matunga, Mumbai 400019, India. Electronic address: rs.singhal@ictmumbai.edu.in.

Chitosan and whey protein isolate (WPI) conjugate films were prepared as a novel 
matrix for encapsulating and extending the postharvest shelf life of 
strawberries. Film forming solutions of chitosan, WPI, and chitosan-WPI 
conjugate were mixed with glycerol, casted for films at 60 ± 2 °C and assessed 
for their colour, water vapour and oxygen transfer rate, textural, functional 
groups and secondary structure, thermal, crystallinity, and antioxidant 
properties. Chitosan-WPI conjugate films were applied as an edible coating on 
strawberries, and studied for storage stability at 5 °C and 20 °C by assessing 
physical and biochemical parameters. A considerable reduction in colour indices, 
weight loss, pH and titratable acidity, reducing sugars, ascorbic acid, total 
phenolics, DPPH and ABTS assay was noted in the coated strawberries over the 
control at both the studied temperatures. The control strawberries had a shelf 
life of 5 and 3 days, whereas coating enhanced the shelf life of strawberries to 
8 and 5 days when stored at 5 °C and 20 °C, respectively.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2020.127213
PMID: 32516713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


591. Food Chem. 2020 Nov 1;329:127116. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2020.127116. Epub
2020  May 22.

Storage of pasteurized milk in clear PET bottles combined with light exposure on 
a retail display case: A possible strategy to define the shelf life and support 
a recyclable packaging.

Limbo S(1), Pellegrino L(2), D'Incecco P(2), Gobbi S(2), Rosi V(2), Fracassetti 
D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food, Environmental and Nutritional Sciences (DeFENS), 
Università degli Studi di Milano, Milan, Italy. Electronic address: 
sara.limbo@unimi.it.
(2)Department of Food, Environmental and Nutritional Sciences (DeFENS), 
Università degli Studi di Milano, Milan, Italy.

The stability of whole pasteurized milk packaged in clear PET bottles was 
studied throughout 13-days storage in the dark, but including, at specific 
times, light exposure of 6, 12 or 18 h to simulate conditions potentially 
occurring in refrigerated display counters. The aim was to investigate the 
effects of light exposure when overlapping the unavoidable endogenous 
modifications in pasteurized milk during storage. Dissolved oxygen, riboflavin 
and other flavins, proteolysis products, volatile compounds, and sensory 
characteristics were evaluated. Besides the expected progress of proteolysis 
occurring during storage, light negatively affected milk flavour especially 
after longer exposure times. The development of "mushroom" flavor related to the 
increase of volatile 2,3 octanedione was the most characterizing modification. 
Gathered data were considered in view of providing the background knowledge for 
the control of light exposure conditions on a retail display, thus supporting 
the shelf life extension of pasteurized milk in a fully recyclable packaging.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2020.127116
PMID: 32516718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


592. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2020 Jun 1;35(6):1043-1070. doi:
10.1093/ndt/gfz175.

Comparison of machine perfusion versus cold storage in kidney transplant 
recipients from expanded criteria donors: a cohort-based study.

Foucher Y(1)(2), Fournier MC(1), Legendre C(3), Morelon E(4), Buron F(4), Girerd 
S(5), Ladrière M(5), Mourad G(6), Garrigue V(6), Glotz D(7), Lefaucheur C(7), 
Cassuto E(8), Albano L(8), Giral M(2)(9)(10), Dantal J(2)(10); DIVAT Consortium.

Collaborators: Hériot LE, Badet L, Maria Brunet FB, Cahen R, Daoud S, Fournie C, 
Grégoire A, Koenig A, Charlène Lévi EM, Pouteil-Noble C, Rimmelé T, Thaunat O, 
Sylvie Delmas VG, Le Quintrec M, Pernin V, Serre JE, Eschwege P, Luc Frimat SG, 
Jacques Hubert ML, Laurain E, Leblanc L, Lecoanet P, Lemelle JL, Blancho G, 
Branchereau J, Cantarovich D, Agnès Chapelet JD, Deltombe C, Figueres L, Claire 
Garandeau MG, Gourraud-Vercel C, Hourmant M, Karam G, Kerleau C, Meurette A, 
Ville S, Kandell C, Moreau A, Renaudin K, Cesbron A, Delbos F, Walencik A, Devis 
A, Laeticia Albano EC, Amrouche L, Anglicheau D, Aubert O, Lynda Bererhi CL, 
Loupy A, Martinez F, Sberro-Soussan R, Scemla A, Tinel C, Zuber J.

Author information:
(1)INSERM UMR 1246 - SPHERE, Nantes University, Tours University, Nantes, 
France.
(2)Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Nantes, Nantes, France.
(3)Kidney Transplant Center, Necker University Hospital, APHP, RTRS « Centaure 
», Paris Descartes and Sorbonne Paris Cité Universities, Paris, France.
(4)Nephrology, Transplantation and Clinical Immunology Department, RTRS « 
Centaure », Edouard Herriot University Hospital, Hospices Civils, Lyon, France.
(5)Renal Transplantation Department, Brabois University Hospital, Nancy, France.
(6)Nephrology, Dialysis and Transplantation Department, Lapeyronie University 
Hospital, Montpellier, France.
(7)Paris Translational Research Center for Organ Transplantation & Department of 
Nephrology and Transplantation, Hopital Saint Louis, Université Paris VII and 
INSERM U 1160, Paris, France.
(8)Department of Nephrology and Renal Transplantation, Hospital Pasteur, Nice, 
France.
(9)Centre d'Investigation Clinique en Biothérapie, Labex Transplantex, Nantes, 
France.
(10)Centre de Recherche en Transplantation et Immunologie INSERM UMR1064, 
Université de Nantes, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Nantes, RTRS « 
Centaure », Nantes, France.

BACKGROUND: Most studies comparing the efficacy of hypothermic machine perfusion 
(HMP) versus static cold storage (SCS) are based on short-term outcomes. We 
aimed to better evaluate the mid-term impact of HMP in patients receiving 
expanded criteria donor (ECD) kidneys.
METHODS: The analyses were based on the French Données Informatisées et VAlidées 
en Transplantation (DIVAT) observational cohort. Patients aged ≥45 years 
transplanted for the first or second times from an ECD donor since 2010 were 
studied. Our study reported the graft and/or patient survivals and the incidence 
of acute rejection episode. The Cox models and the Kaplan-Meier estimators, 
weighted on the propensity score, were used to study the times-to-events.
RESULTS: Among the 2019 included patients, 1073 were in the SCS group versus 946 
in the HMP group. The mean life expectancy with functioning graft was 5.7 years 
[95% confidence interval (CI) 5.4-6.1] for the HMP cohort followed-up for 
8 years post-transplantation versus 6.0 years (95% CI 5.7-6.2) for the SCS 
group. These mid-term results were comparable in the patients receiving grafts 
from donors aged ≥70 years and in the transplantations with cold ischaemia time 
≥18 h.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study challenges the utility of using HMP to improve mid-term 
patient and graft survival. Nevertheless, the improvement of the short-term 
outcomes is indisputable. It is necessary to continue technological innovations 
to obtain long-term results.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
ERA-EDTA. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfz175
PMID: 32516809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Salud Publica Mex. 2020 Sep-Oct;62(5):590-592. doi: 10.21149/11486. Epub
2020  Jun 3.

Allocating medical resources fairly:the CSG bioethics guide.

[Article in English]

Macklin R(1).

Author information:
(1)Albert Einstein College of Medicine. Bronx, New York, USA.

On April 12, 2020, a bioethics guide for allocating scarce hospital resources 
during the current Covid-19 pandemic was posted on the website of the Consejo de 
Salubridad General(CSG) of the Government of Mexico. The guide, entitled Guía 
bioética para asignación de recursos limitados de medicina crítica en situación 
de emergencia, was intended as a preliminary document, but the website posting 
did not describe it as a first step in the process. The publicity resulted in a 
wide array of comments and criticisms. That first version posted on the CSG 
website contained an age-based criterion for breaking a tie between two or more 
medically eligible patients who needed of a ventilator: younger patients would 
have prefer-ence over older ones. The final version of the guide eliminated that 
criterion and instead, relied on the leading public health principle, "save the 
most lives", without regard to personal characteristics other than the 
possibility of benefitting from the scarce medical resources.

Publisher: El 12 de abril de 2020, se publicó en el sitio web del Consejo de 
Salubridad General (CSG) del Gobierno de México una guía de bioética para 
asignar recursos hospitalarios escasos durante la actual pandemia de Covid-19. 
La guía titulada Guía bioética para asignación de recursos limitados de medicina 
crítica en situación de emergencia pretendía ser un documento pre-liminar, pero 
la publicación en el sitio web no lo describió como un primer paso en el 
proceso. La publicación resultó en una amplia gama de comentarios y críticas. La 
primera versión publicada en el sitio web del CSG contenía un cri-terio basado 
en la edad para romper el empate entre dos o más pacientes médicamente elegibles 
que necesitaran un ventilador: los pacientes más jóvenes tendrían preferencia 
sobre los de mayor edad. La versión final de la guía eliminó ese criterio y, en 
cambio, se basó en el principio principal de salud pública, “salvar la mayoría 
de las vidas”, sin tener en cuenta las características personales que no sean la 
posibilidad de beneficiarse de los escasos recursos médicos.

DOI: 10.21149/11486
PMID: 32516867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflict of interests. The 
authors declare that they have no conflict of interests.


594. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Jun 6;21(11):4070. doi: 10.3390/ijms21114070.

Transcriptome-Based Analysis of Tomato Genotypes Resistant to Bacterial Spot 
(Xanthomonas perforans) Race T4.

Shi R(1)(2), Panthee DR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Horticultural Science, Mountain Horticultural Crops Research & 
Extension Center, North Carolina State University, Mills River, NC 28759, USA.
(2)Department of Crop and Soil Science, North Carolina State University, 
Raleigh, NC 27695-7620, USA.

Bacterial spot (BS) is one of the most devastating foliar bacterial diseases of 
tomato and is caused by multiple species of Xanthomonas. We performed the RNA 
sequencing (RNA-Seq) analysis of three tomato lines with different levels of 
resistance to Xanthomonas perforans race T4 to study the differentially 
expressed genes (DEGs) and transcript-based sequence variations. Analysis 
between inoculated and control samples revealed that resistant genotype Solanum 
pimpinellifolium accession PI 270443 had more DEGs (834), followed by 
susceptible genotype tomato (S. lycopersicum L) breeding line NC 714 (373), and 
intermediate genotype tomato breeding line NC 1CELBR (154). Gene ontology (GO) 
terms revealed that more GO terms (51) were enriched for upregulated DEGs in the 
resistant genotype PI 270443, and more downregulated DEGs (67) were enriched in 
the susceptible genotype NC 714. DEGs in the biotic stress pathway showed more 
upregulated biotic stress pathway DEGs (67) for PI 270443 compared to more 
downregulated DEGs (125) for the susceptible NC 714 genotype. Resistant genotype 
PI 270443 has three upregulated DEGs for pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins, and 
susceptible genotype NC 714 has one downregulated R gene. Sequence variations 
called from RNA-Seq reads against the reference genome of susceptible Heinz 1706 
showed that chr11, which has multiple reported resistance quantitative trait 
loci (QTLs) to BS race T4, is identical between two resistant lines, PI 270443 
and NC 1CELBR, suggesting that these two lines share the same resistance QTLs on 
this chromosome. Several loci for PR resistance proteins with sequence variation 
between the resistant and susceptible tomato lines were near the known Rx4 
resistance gene on chr11, and additional biotic stress associated DEGs near to 
the known Rx4 resistance gene were also identified from the susceptible NC 714 
line.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21114070
PMCID: PMC7313073
PMID: 32517212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


595. Pain Physician. 2020 Jun;23(3):283-292.

Cordotomy for Intractable Cancer Pain: A Narrative Review.

Javed S(1), Viswanathan A, Abdi S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pain Medicine, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX.
(2)University of Texas, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX.

BACKGROUND: Cordotomy is an invasive procedure for the management of intractable 
pain not controlled by conventional therapies, such as analgesics or nerve 
block. This procedure involves mechanical disruption of nociceptive pathways in 
the anterolateral column, specifically the spinothalamic and spinoreticular 
pathways to relieve pain while preserving fine touch and proprioceptive tracts.
OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this review article is to refresh our knowledge of 
cordotomy and support its continued use in managing intractable pain due to 
malignant disease.
STUDY DESIGN: This is a review article with the goal of reviewing and 
summarizing the pertinent case reports, case series, retrospective studies, 
prospective studies, and review articles published from 2010 onward on spinal 
cordotomy.
SETTING: The University of Texas, MD Anderson Cancer Center.
METHODS: PubMed search of keywords "spinal cordotomy," "percutaneous cordotomy," 
or "open cordotomy" was undertaken. Search results were organized by year of 
publication.
RESULTS: Cordotomy can be performed via percutaneous, open, endoscopic, or 
transdiscal approach. Percutaneous image-guided approach is the most 
well-studied and reported technique compared with others, with relatively good 
pain improvement both in the postoperative and short-term period. The use of 
open cordotomy has diminished significantly in recent years because of the 
advent of other less invasive approaches. Cordotomy in children, although rare, 
has been described in some case reports and case series with reported pain 
improvement postprocedure. Although complications can vary broadly, some 
reported side effects include ataxia and paresis due to lesion in the 
spinocerebellar/corticospinal tract; respiratory failure due to lesion in the 
reticulospinal tract; or sympathetic dysfunction, bladder dysfunctions, or 
Horner syndrome due to unintentional lesions in the spinothalamic tract.
LIMITATIONS: Review article included literature published only in English. For 
the studies reviewed, the sample size was relatively small and the patient 
population was heterogeneous (in terms of underlying disease process, duration 
of symptoms, previous treatment attempted and length of follow-up).
CONCLUSIONS: Cordotomy results in selective loss of pain and temperature 
perception on the contralateral side, up to several segments below the level of 
the disruption. The plethora of analgesics available and advanced technologies 
have reduced the demand for cordotomy in the management of intractable pain. 
However, some patients with pain unresponsive to medical and procedural 
management, particularly malignant pain, may benefit from this procedure, and it 
is a viable treatment option especially for patients with a limited life 
expectancy whose severe, unilateral pain is unresponsive to analgesic 
medications.
KEY WORDS: Cancer pain, cordotomy complications, cordotomy indications, 
intractable pain, open cordotomy, percutaneous cordotomy.

PMID: 32517394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Blood Rev. 2020 Jul;42:100706. doi: 10.1016/j.blre.2020.100706. Epub 2020
May  22.

Epidemiology of the classical myeloproliferative neoplasms: The four corners of 
an expansive and complex map.

Shallis RM(1), Wang R(2), Davidoff A(3), Ma X(2), Podoltsev NA(4), Zeidan AM(5).

Author information:
(1)Section of Hematology, Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University 
School of Medicine, New Haven, USA.
(2)Cancer Outcomes, Public Policy, and Effectiveness Research (COPPER) Center, 
Yale University, New Haven, USA; Department of Chronic Disease Epidemiology, 
Yale School of Public Health, New Haven, USA.
(3)Cancer Outcomes, Public Policy, and Effectiveness Research (COPPER) Center, 
Yale University, New Haven, USA; Department of Health Policy and Management, 
Yale School of Public Health, New Haven, USA.
(4)Section of Hematology, Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University 
School of Medicine, New Haven, USA; Cancer Outcomes, Public Policy, and 
Effectiveness Research (COPPER) Center, Yale University, New Haven, USA.
(5)Section of Hematology, Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University 
School of Medicine, New Haven, USA; Cancer Outcomes, Public Policy, and 
Effectiveness Research (COPPER) Center, Yale University, New Haven, USA. 
Electronic address: amer.zeidan@yale.edu.

The classical myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs), specifically chronic myeloid 
leukemia (CML), polycythemia vera (PV), essential thrombocythemia (ET) and 
primary myelofibrosis (PMF), represent clonal myeloid disorders whose 
pathogenesis is driven by well-defined molecular abnormalities. In this 
comprehensive review, we summarize the epidemiological literature and present 
our own analysis of the most recent the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End 
Results (SEER) program data through 2016. Older age and male gender are known 
risk factors for MPNs, but the potential etiological role of other variables is 
less established. The incidences of CML, PV, and ET are relatively similar at 
1.0-2.0 per 100,000 person-years in the United States, while PMF is rarer with 
an incidence of 0.3 per 100,000 person-years. The availability of tyrosine 
kinase inhibitor therapy has dramatically improved CML patient outcomes and 
yield a life expectancy similar to the general population. Patients with PV or 
ET have better survival than PMF patients.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.blre.2020.100706
PMID: 32517877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Food Res Int. 2020 Aug;134:109208. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2020.109208. Epub
2020  Apr 5.

Trends and advances in edible biopolymer coating for tropical fruit: A review.

Md Nor S(1), Ding P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Crop Science, Faculty of Agriculture, Universiti Putra 
Malaysia, 43400 Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Crop Science, Faculty of Agriculture, Universiti Putra 
Malaysia, 43400 Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia; Faculty of Agriculture and Food 
Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia Bintulu Sarawak Campus, Nyabau Road, 97008 
Bintulu, Sarawak, Malaysia. Electronic address: phebe@upm.edu.my.

Nowadays, many of the tropical fruits have been commercialized worldwide due to 
increasing demand. In 2018, global tropical fruit has reached an unprecedented 
peak of 7.1 million tonnes. As such, a lot of large scale farming has been 
initiated to cultivate the fruit for commercialization. The nature of tropical 
fruit is perishable make the fruit easily undergo post-harvest losses especially 
when the fruit travels in a long distance for distribution. Losses of tropical 
fruit is estimated around 18-28% after harvesting. Then, the losses will 
continually develop during the trading process. Applying fruit coating on the 
fruit can minimize substantial privation. This article compendiously reviews the 
needs of coating and discuss different types of coating materials. The 
efficiency of different coating materials; polysaccharide, protein, lipid and 
composite based coating on tropical fruit is highlighted. There are various 
types of coating available for major fruit such as banana, mango, pineapple and 
avocado that can effectively extend the post-harvest life, minimize water loss, 
reduce chilling injuries and fight against post-harvest disease. Coating from 
minor fruit such as durian, rambutan, passion-fruit and mangosteen are still 
limited especially made from lipid and protein coating. In choosing the most 
appropriate coating for tropical, the nature of fruit needs to be understood. In 
addition, the chemistry of coating components and techniques of application is 
important in modulating the fruit quality.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2020.109208
PMID: 32517939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


598. F1000Res. 2020 May 27;9:F1000 Faculty Rev-447. doi: 
10.12688/f1000research.21151.1. eCollection 2020.

Recent advances in de-intensification of radiotherapy in elderly cancer 
patients.

Desideri I(1), Salvestrini V(1), Livi L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental and Clinical Biomedical Sciences Biochemistry, 
Radiotherapy Unit, University of Florence, Florence, Italy.

Cancer in the elderly remains an evolving issue and a health challenge. Several 
improvements in the radiotherapy field allow the delivery of higher 
doses/fractions with a safe toxicity profile, permitting the reduction of 
radiation treatment protocols in the elderly. Regarding breast, prostate, and 
lung cancer, the under-representation of older patients in clinical trials 
limits the extension of treatment recommendations to elderly patients in routine 
clinical practice. Among the feasible alternatives to standard whole breast 
radiotherapy (WBRT) in older patients are shorter courses using higher 
hypofractionation (HF) and accelerated partial breast irradiation (APBI). The 
boost continues to be used in women at high risk of local recurrence but is less 
widely accepted for women at lower risk and patients over 70 years of age. 
Regarding prostate cancer, there are no published studies with a focus on the 
elderly. Current management decisions are based on life expectancy and geriatric 
assessment. Regimens of HF and ultra-HF protocols are feasible strategies for 
older patients. Several prospective non-randomized studies have documented the 
safe delivery of ultra-HF for patients with localized prostate cancer, and 
multiple phase III trials and meta-analyses have confirmed that the HF regimen 
should be offered with similar acute toxicity regardless of patient age and 
comorbidity. A recent pooled analysis from two randomized trials comparing 
surgery to stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) in older adult patients 
with early stage non-small cell lung cancer did show comparable outcomes between 
surgery and SBRT. Elderly cancer patients are significantly under-represented in 
all clinical trials. Thus, the inclusion of older patients in clinical studies 
should be strongly encouraged to strengthen the evidence base for this age 
group. We suggest that the creation of oncogeriatric coordination units may 
promote individualized care protocols, avoid overtreatment with aggressive and 
unrecommended therapies, and support de-escalating treatment in elderly cancer 
patients.

Copyright: © 2020 Desideri I et al.

DOI: 10.12688/f1000research.21151.1
PMCID: PMC7255897
PMID: 32518630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No competing interests were disclosed.No 
competing interests were disclosed.No competing interests were disclosed.


599. One Health. 2020 May 15;10:100143. doi: 10.1016/j.onehlt.2020.100143. 
eCollection 2020 Dec.

Applying one health methods to improve cocoa production in Bougainville: A case 
study.

Walton M(1), Hall J(1), Guest D(2), Butubu J(3), Vinning G(1), Black K(4), 
Beardsley J(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health University of Sydney Australia, Australia.
(2)Sydney Institute of Agriculture, School of Life and Environmental Sciences, 
Australia.
(3)Department of Primary Industries and Marine Resources, Autonomous Region of 
Bougainville, Papua New Guinea.
(4)The Sydney University Central Clinical School, Australia.
(5)Marie Bashir Institute Westmead Clinical School, University of Sydney, 
Australia.

Cocoa production is the major contributor to livelihoods for farming families 
that constitute nearly two-thirds of the population of the Autonomous Region of 
Bougainville, a Province in Papua New Guinea (PNG). These families, living 
mostly in subsistence poverty as a result of the Bougainville Civil War 
(1988-98), have significantly reduced cocoa production. Efforts to rebuild the 
industry have not been realised, due to known agricultural factors such as 
labour shortages, pests and diseases, poor support for farmers from trained 
agricultural extension officers and inefficient cocoa supply chains. But cocoa 
production involves factors other than agricultural ones. This article describes 
how we applied One Health methods to design and undertake a 6-year research 
project in Bougainville to improve cocoa productivity. Maximising the health and 
wellbeing of farming families and increasing agricultural productivity we argue, 
requires an in-depth understanding of the non-linear interactions between 
health, labour, household decision-making, yields and incomes.

© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.onehlt.2020.100143
PMCID: PMC7270190
PMID: 32518813

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


600. Blood. 2020 Oct 22;136(17):1946-1955. doi: 10.1182/blood.2020004922.

Cost-effectiveness of first-line vs third-line ibrutinib in patients with 
untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Patel KK(1), Isufi I(1), Kothari S(1), Davidoff AJ(2)(3), Gross CP(2), 
Huntington SF(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology/Oncology, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, CT.
(2)Yale Cancer Outcomes, Public Policy, and Effectiveness Research Center, New 
Haven, CT; and.
(3)Department of Health Policy and Management, Yale School of Public Health, New 
Haven, CT.

Comment in
    Blood. 2020 Oct 22;136(17):1896-1898.

The ALLIANCE A041202 trial found that continuously administered ibrutinib in the 
first-line setting significantly prolonged progression-free survival compared 
with a fixed-duration treatment of rituximab and bendamustine in older adults 
with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). In this study, we created a Markov 
model to assess the cost-effectiveness of ibrutinib in the first-line setting, 
compared with a strategy of using ibrutinib in the third-line after failure of 
time-limited bendamustine and venetoclax-based regimens. We estimated transition 
probabilities from randomized trials using parametric survival modeling. 
Lifetime direct health care costs, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated from a US payer 
perspective. First-line ibrutinib was associated with an improvement of 0.26 
QALYs and 0.40 life-years compared with using ibrutinib in the third-line 
setting. However, using ibrutinib in the first-line led to significantly higher 
health care costs (incremental cost of $612 700), resulting in an ICER of 
$2 350 041 per QALY. The monthly cost of ibrutinib would need to be decreased by 
72% for first-line ibrutinib therapy to be cost-effective at a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $150 000 per QALY. In a scenario analysis where 
ibrutinib was used in the second-line in the delayed ibrutinib arm, first-line 
ibrutinib had an incremental cost of $478 823, an incremental effectiveness of 
0.05 QALYs, and an ICER of $9 810 360 per QALY when compared with second-line 
use. These data suggest that first-line ibrutinib for unselected older adults 
with CLL is unlikely to be cost-effective under current pricing. Delaying 
ibrutinib for most patients with CLL until later lines of therapy may be a 
reasonable strategy to limit health care costs without compromising clinical 
outcomes.

© 2020 by The American Society of Hematology.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.2020004922
PMID: 32518952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. High Blood Press Cardiovasc Prev. 2020 Aug;27(4):291-297. doi: 
10.1007/s40292-020-00394-x. Epub 2020 Jun 9.

Prevention of Sudden Cardiac Death: Focus on the Subcutaneous Implantable 
Cardioverter-Defibrillator.

Adduci C(1), Palano F(1), Silvetti G(1), Cosentino P(1), Francia P(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, St. 
Andrea Hospital, Sapienza University of Rome, Via di Grottarossa, 1035, 00189, 
Rome, Italy.
(2)Division of Cardiology, Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, St. 
Andrea Hospital, Sapienza University of Rome, Via di Grottarossa, 1035, 00189, 
Rome, Italy. pietro.francia@uniroma1.it.

The implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) is the most effective therapy 
to prevent sudden cardiac death (SCD) in high-risk patients. To overcome 
infections and failure of transvenous leads, the most frightening complications 
of conventional ICDs, a completely subcutaneous ICD (S-ICD) has been developed 
and is currently adopted in routine clinical practice. In view of their long 
life-expectancy, low competitive risk of dying from non-arrhythmic causes, and 
high lifetime risk of lead-related complications requiring surgical revisions, 
young patients with cardiomyopathies and inherited arrhythmia syndromes have 
traditionally been considered ideal candidates for the S-ICD. However, as 
growing evidence supported S-ICD safety and efficacy, initial niche implant 
indications were abandoned in favor of a widespread use of this technology, that 
is currently adopted in common ICD candidates with severe left ventricular 
dysfunction. Indeed, guidelines recommend S-ICD implantation as an alternative 
to TV-ICDs in all ICD candidates, unless pacing is required. This review focuses 
on the contemporary experience with the S-ICD and explores future scenarios in 
which device-to-device communication will enable to combine leadless therapies.

DOI: 10.1007/s40292-020-00394-x
PMID: 32519207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Rocz Panstw Zakl Hig. 2020;71(2):171-180. doi: 10.32394/rpzh.2020.0112.

The relationship between the level of physical activity, independence in daily 
activities, and life quality and satisfaction in women over 80 living in rural 
areas - a pilot study.

Żurek G(1), Lepsy E(2), Żurek A(3), Radajewska A(4), Ptaszkowski K(5), 
Golachowska M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostructure, University School of Physical Education, Wroclaw, 
Poland.
(2)Department of Physiotherapy, Opole Medical School, Opole, Poland.
(3)Department of Clinical Psychology and Health, University of Wroclaw, Wroclaw, 
Poland.
(4)Department of Physiotherapy, Krapkowice Health Centre, Krapkowice, Poland.
(5)Department of Clinical Biomechanics and Physiotherapy in Motor System 
Disorders, Faculty of Health Science, Wroclaw Medical University, Wroclaw, 
Poland.
(6)Department of Health Sciences, Opole Medical School, Opole, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Better medicine and health care steadily increases the human life 
expectancy. Growing number of elderly people and the imbalance of population 
structure will affect many fields of life, including social security system, 
joborientation and culture. Therefore it is crucial that the elderly maintain 
not only good physical health but keep the ability to self-care as long as 
possible, stay functionally fit and express satisfaction of life in all domains.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to analyse the factors that affect the quality of 
life in different domains (physical, psychological, social and environmental), 
like the independence in performing everyday life activities and the level of 
physical activity of women above 80 years old, living in own households.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was performed from March to August 2015 in 
Opole, Lower Silesia and Silesia voivodeship, mosty in rural areas, on 67 women, 
age above 80 (average 82.9), who filled the standarized questionnaires of life 
quality (WHOQOL-BREF), physical activity (IPAQ), and self-maintenance in daily 
living (IADL, Lawton scale).
RESULTS: The results show that the life satisfaction of women above 80 years old 
living in own households in rural areas is highest in the social and 
environmental domains, while is the lowest in physical health domain. There is a 
strong positive correlation between the level of physical activity, the level of 
self-maintenance and the life quality in four of its domains.
CONCLUSIONS: Self-maintenance and higher level of physical fitness, which are 
the components of functional fitness, positively correlate with self-assesed 
life-satisfaction in all domains. It is crucial to stress the importance of 
physical activity in seniors, preferably in way of dedicated exercising of 
moderate and high intensity, that will bring benefits not only in domain of 
physical health but in overall well-being and higher life-satisfaction, the 
significant factors in healthy ageing.

© Copyright by the National Institute of Public Health - National Institute of 
Hygiene.

DOI: 10.32394/rpzh.2020.0112
PMID: 32519535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors claim no conflict of interest


603. J Biosoc Sci. 2021 May;53(3):379-395. doi: 10.1017/S0021932020000255. Epub
2020  Jun 10.

Testing the regional Convergence Hypothesis for the progress in health status in 
India during 1980-2015.

Siddiqui MZ(1), Goli S(1)(2), Rammohan A(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Study of Regional Development (CSRD), Jawaharlal Nehru 
University, Delhi, India.
(2)UWA Public Policy Institute, University of Western Australia, Perth, 
Australia.
(3)Department of Economics, University of Western Australia (M251), Crawley, 
Australia.

The key challenges of global health policy are not limited to improving average 
health status, with a need for greater focus on reducing regional inequalities 
in health outcomes. This study aimed to assess health inequalities across the 
major Indian states used data from the Sample Registration System (SRS, 
1981-2015), National Family Health Survey (NFHS, 1992-2015) and other Indian 
government official statistics. Catching-up plots, absolute and conditional 
β-convergence models, sigma (σ) plots and Kernel Density plots were used to test 
the Convergence Hypothesis, Dispersion Measure of Mortality (DMM) and the Gini 
index to measure progress in absolute and relative health inequalities across 
the major Indian states. The findings from the absolute β-convergence measure 
showed convergence in life expectancy at birth among the states. The results 
from the β- and σ-convergences showed convergence replacing divergence post-2000 
for child and maternal mortality indicators. Furthermore, the estimates 
suggested a continued divergence for child underweight, but slow improvements in 
child full immunization. The trends in inter-state inequality suggest a decline 
in absolute inequality, but a significant increase or stationary trend in 
relative health inequality during 1981-2015. The application of different 
convergence metrics worked as robustness checks in the assessment of the 
convergence process in the selected health indicators for India over the study 
period.

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932020000255
PMID: 32519633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Neurodegener Dis Manag. 2020 Oct;10(5):289-300. doi: 10.2217/nmt-2020-0020.
Epub  2020 Jun 10.

Experience of patisiran with transthyretin stabilizers in patients with 
hereditary transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis.

Lin H(1), Merkel M(1), Hale C(1), Marantz JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Cambridge, MA 02142, USA.

Aim: Examine safety and pharmacodynamics of patisiran alone or with concomitant 
transthyretin stabilizers from the Phase II open-label extension study and 
safety and efficacy of patisiran in patients with prior transthyretin stabilizer 
use from the Phase III APOLLO study. Patients & methods:Post hoc analyses in 
patients with hereditary transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis with polyneuropathy. 
Results: Patisiran safety was consistent regardless of concomitant or prior 
transthyretin stabilizers. In the Phase II open-label extension (n = 27), 
transthyretin reduction was similar over 24 months, regardless of concomitant 
transthyretin stabilizers. In APOLLO (n = 225), patisiran-treated groups showed 
stabilization or improvements in neurological function (modified Neuropathy 
Impairment Score +7) and quality of life (Norfolk Quality of Life-Diabetic 
Neuropathy questionnaire) at 18 months, regardless of prior transthyretin 
stabilizers. Conclusion: Patients benefit from patisiran regardless of 
transthyretin stabilizer use.

DOI: 10.2217/nmt-2020-0020
PMID: 32519928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Epidemiol Serv Saude. 2020 Jun 8;29(3):e2018451. doi: 
10.5123/S1679-49742020000300004. eCollection 2020.

Sex differentials in avoidable mortality and potential life expectancy gains in 
São Paulo, SP, Brazil: a cross-sectional study of the period 2014-2016.

[Article in English, Portuguese; Abstract available in Portuguese from the 
publisher]

Souza LG(1), Siviero PCL(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal de Alfenas, Instituto de Ciências Sociais Aplicadas, 
Varginha, MG, Brasil.

OBJECTIVE: to estimate potential life expectancy gains and differences between 
males and females, if avoidable deaths from circulatory system diseases, 
neoplasms and external causes had been eliminated in São Paulo, SP, Brazil, in 
the period 2014- 2016.
METHODS: this was a cross-sectional study using data from the Mortality 
Information System (SIM), and the Brazilian Institute of Geography and 
Statistics (IBGE), using multiple decrement tables.
RESULTS: of the 81,087 deaths from the diseases studied here, 75.1% were 
classified as avoidable; elimination of avoidable deaths due to circulatory 
system diseases was found to generate the greatest potential life expectancy 
gains, followed by neoplasms among females and external causes among males.
CONCLUSION: magnitude of lost life expectancy due to avoidable deaths differs 
between males and females; sex differentials in avoidable mortality therefore 
persist, producing a series of challenges.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: estimar o ganho potencial e as diferenças de esperança de 
vida entre homens e mulheres, caso os óbitos evitáveis por doenças do aparelho 
circulatório, neoplasias e causas externas fossem eliminados em São Paulo, SP, 
Brasil, nos anos de 2014 a 2016.
MÉTODOS: estudo transversal, com dados do Sistema de Informações sobre 
Mortalidade (SIM) e do Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística (IBGE), 
utilizando tábuas de múltiplo decremento.
RESULTADOS: dos 81.087 óbitos pelas doenças selecionadas, 75,1% foram 
classificados como evitáveis; verificou-se que a eliminação dos óbitos evitáveis 
por doenças do aparelho circulatório gerou os maiores ganhos potenciais de 
esperança de vida, seguidos dos ganhos por neoplasias, para as mulheres, e por 
causas externas para os homens.
CONCLUSÃO: os óbitos evitáveis geram uma perda de esperança de vida de 
magnitudes distintas, segundo homens ou mulheres; logo, persistem diferenciais 
por sexo na mortalidade evitável, produzindo uma série de desafios.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: estimar las diferencias en la ganancia potencial y la 
esperanza de vida entre hombres y mujeres, en el caso de que las muertes 
evitables por enfermedades del sistema circulatorio, neoplasias y causas 
externas hubieran sido eliminadas en São Paulo, SP, Brasil, de 2014 a 2016.
MÉTODOS: datos del Sistema de Información de Mortalidad (SIM) y de la fundación 
Instituto Brasileño de Geografía y Estadística (IBGE), utilizando tablas de 
disminución múltiple.
RESULTADOS: de las 81.087 muertes por las enfermedades estudiadas, 75,1% se 
clasificaron como prevenibles; se encontró que la eliminación de las muertes 
evitables debidas a enfermedades del sistema circulatorio generó las mayores 
ganancias potenciales en la esperanza de vida, seguidas de las neoplasias para 
las mujeres y de las causas externas para los hombres.
CONCLUSIÓN: las muertes evitables generan una pérdida de esperanza de vida de 
diferentes magnitudes, entre hombres y mujeres; por lo tanto, persisten las 
diferencias de género en la mortalidad evitable, lo que genera una serie de 
desafíos.

DOI: 10.5123/S1679-49742020000300004
PMID: 32520117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Cien Saude Colet. 2020 Jun;25(suppl 1):2403-2410. doi: 
10.1590/1413-81232020256.1.11112020. Epub 2020 Apr 25.

Worldwide differences in COVID-19-related mortality.

Hallal PC(1).

Author information:
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Epidemiologia, Universidade Federal de Pelotas. 
R. Marechal Deodoro 1160, Centro. 96020-220 Pelotas RS Brasil. 
prchallal@gmail.com.

Comment in
    Cien Saude Colet. 2020 Sep;25(9):3689-3690.

Mortality statistics due to COVID-19 worldwide are compared, by adjusting for 
the size of the population and the stage of the pandemic. Data from the European 
Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, and Our World in Data websites were 
used. Analyses are based on number of deaths per one million inhabitants. In 
order to account for the stage of the pandemic, the baseline date was defined as 
the day in which the 10th death was reported. The analyses included 78 countries 
and territories which reported 10 or more deaths by April 9. On day 10, India 
had 0.06 deaths per million, Belgium had 30.46 and San Marino 618.78. On day 20, 
India had 0.27 deaths per million, China had 0.71 and Spain 139.62. On day 30, 
four Asian countries had the lowest mortality figures, whereas eight European 
countries had the highest ones. In Italy and Spain, mortality on day 40 was 
greater than 250 per million, whereas in China and South Korea, mortality was 
below 4 per million. Mortality on day 10 was moderately correlated with life 
expectancy, but not with population density. Asian countries presented much 
lower mortality figures as compared to European ones. Life expectancy was found 
to be correlated with mortality.

DOI: 10.1590/1413-81232020256.1.11112020
PMID: 32520285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2021 Feb;87(2):588-597. doi: 10.1111/bcp.14421. Epub
2020  Jun 30.

Cost-utility and cost-effectiveness analysis of a clinical medication review 
focused on personal goals in older persons with polypharmacy compared to usual 
care: Economic evaluation of the DREAMeR study.

Verdoorn S(1)(2), van de Pol J(1), Hövels AM(1), Kwint HF(2), Blom JW(3), 
Gussekloo J(3)(4), Bouvy ML(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Clinical Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute 
for Pharmaceutical Sciences, Utrecht University, The Netherlands.
(2)SIR Institute for Pharmacy Practice and Policy, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Leiden University Medical 
Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, section Gerontology and Geriatrics, Leiden 
University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.

AIMS: The ageing society may lead to increasing healthcare expenditure. A 
clinical medication review (CMR) could potentially reduce costs. The aim of this 
study is to perform a cost-utility and cost-effectiveness analysis from a 
societal perspective of a patient-centred CMR.
METHODS: A trial-based cost-utility and cost-effectiveness analysis was 
performed as part of the DREAMeR study, a pragmatic controlled trial that 
randomised patients aged ≥70 years using at least seven drugs to either CMR or 
usual care. Over six months, healthcare consumption and drug use were collected 
to estimate costs, and effects were collected in terms of quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) measured with EQ-5D-5 L and EQ-VAS and as reduced health-related 
complaints with impact on patients' daily lives.
RESULTS: The total mean costs per patient (n = 588) over six months were €4,189 
± 6,596 for the control group (n = 294) and €4,008 ± 6,678 for the intervention 
group (n = 294), including estimated intervention costs of €199 ± 67, which 
resulted in a mean incremental total cost savings of €181 for the intervention 
group compared to the control group. Compared to the control group, for the 
intervention group, the mean incremental QALYs over six months were: -0.00217 
measured with EQ-5D and 0.003 measured with EQ-VAS. The incremental effect of 
reduced health-related complaints with impact was -0.34. There was a likelihood 
of >90% that the intervention was cost-saving.
CONCLUSIONS: The benefits of a patient-centred CMR were inconsistent with no 
benefits on HR-QoL measured with EQ-5D-5 L and small benefits on HR-QoL measured 
with EQ-VAS and health-related complaints with impact on patients' daily lives. 
Additionally, a CMR could potentially be cost saving from a societal 
perspective.

© 2020 The British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bcp.14421
PMID: 32520439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Curr Med Chem. 2021;28(10):2008-2032. doi:
10.2174/0929867327666200610175400.

Advances in Sickle Cell Disease Treatments.

Pavan AR(1), Dos Santos JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Drugs and Medicines, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sao 
Paulo State University (UNESP), Araraquara, Brazil.

Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) is an inherited disorder of red blood cells that is 
caused by a single mutation in the β -globin gene. The disease, which afflicts 
millions of patients worldwide mainly in low income countries, is characterized 
by high morbidity, mortality and low life expectancy. The new pharmacological 
and non-pharmacological strategies for SCD is urgent in order to promote 
treatments able to reduce patient's suffering and improve their quality of life. 
Since the FDA approval of HU in 1998, there have been few advances in 
discovering new drugs; however, in the last three years voxelotor, 
crizanlizumab, and glutamine have been approved as new therapeutic alternatives. 
In addition, new promising compounds have been described to treat the main SCD 
symptoms. Herein, focusing on drug discovery, we discuss new strategies to treat 
SCD that have been carried out in the last ten years to discover new, safe, and 
effective treatments. Moreover, non-pharmacological approaches, including red 
blood cell exchange, gene therapy and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation 
will be presented.
