disorders, cervical spinal cord injury, or even congenital causes. This review 
is to provide an overview of unilateral diaphragmatic paralysis based on current 
literature to help with a better understanding of the topic, improve the 
clinical ability to recognize the condition, and review diagnostic and treatment 
options.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 32491320

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Shane O'Toole declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Jeremy Kramer 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


512. Peripheral Vascular Disease.

Gul F(1), Janzer SF(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Jun 6.

Author information:
(1)Einstein Medical Center
(2)Albert Einstein Medical Center, Philadelphia

Peripheral vascular disease (PVD) includes peripheral arterial disease (PAD) and 
venous disease. PAD is a chronic progressive atherosclerotic disease leading to 
partial or total peripheral vascular occlusion. PAD typically affects the 
abdominal aorta, iliac arteries, lower limbs, and occasionally the upper 
extremities. PAD affects nearly 200 million people worldwide with increasing 
global importance due to longer life expectancy and prolonged risk factor 
exposure. Patients with PAD have a variable disease presentation and course with 
some patients remaining asymptomatic and with others progressing to arterial 
ulceration, claudication, resting limb ischemia, and limb loss. PAD is a 
cardiovascular disease equivalent, with associated high risk fatal and non-fatal 
cardiovascular events frequently occurring, such as myocardial infarction and 
stroke. PAD is a progressive, debilitating systemic disease that requires 
interprofessional involvement for improved patient outcomes.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 32491414

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Fahad Gul declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Sean Janzer 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


513. Fructose-1-Phosphate Aldolase Deficiency.

Ahmad U(1), Sharma J(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Apr 17.

Author information:
(1)University of Health Sciences
(2)Riverside Community Hospital/University of California Riverside School of 
Medicine

Fructose 1-phosphate aldolase deficiency or hereditary fruc­tose intol­er­ance 
(HFI) is an auto­so­mal reces­sive dis­order, caused by the deficiency in 
aldolase B (fructose-1, 6-bisphosphate aldolase), an enzyme responsible for the 
cleavage of fructose-1-phosphate. HFI is a metabolic disorder that usually 
manifests around 4-6 months of age when weaning is started. The inheritance 
pattern is autosomal recessive, and there is a 25% chance of having a child with 
HFI if both parents are heterozygotes. The mainstay of treatment is the dietary 
restriction of fructose, sorbitol, and sucrose. Life expectancy is normal in 
these individuals if appropriate precautionary measures are taken. The disorder 
leads to a toxic accumulation of fructose-1-phosphate in the liver and renal 
tubules.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 32491693

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Umair Ahmad declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Jyotsna Sharma 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


514. Mol Biol (Mosk). 2020 May-Jun;54(3):480-486. doi:
10.31857/S0026898420030143.

[Modification of the 5' End of mRNA Leader Sequence Alters the Set of Initiation 
Factors Essential for Initiation of Translation].

[Article in Russian]

Sakharov PA(1), Sogorin EA(1), Agalarov SC(1), Kolb VA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Protein Research, Russian Academy of Sciences, Pushchino, Moscow 
oblast, 142290 Russia.
(2)kolb@vega.protres.ru.

The abundance of noncanonical mechanisms of eukaryotic initiation of translation 
indicates their involvement in the regulation of protein synthesis during key 
events in a cell life. One of the well-known examples of a noncanonical 
cap-independent process is the initiation of translation of mRNA with the 
5'-untranslated (leader) region of the messenger encoding for the photoprotein 
obelin (the obelin leader). In the present work, mRNA with the obelin leader was 
modified by adding 45 deoxycytidyl nucleotides and a fluorescent label to its 
5'end. Formation of the 48S ribosomal initiation complexes at the start codon of 
the modified mRNA was studied using primer extension inhibition (toeprinting). 
In contrast to mRNA with the intact obelin leader, translation initiation of 
which strictly requires the eIF4F factor, initiation on the modified mRNA can 
take place in the absence of this factor, although with less efficiency. The 
finding thus indicates the unknown function of the eIF4F factor in the first 
step(s) of mRNA recognition by ribosomal subunits.

DOI: 10.31857/S0026898420030143
PMID: 32492012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. JAMA Netw Open. 2020 Jun 1;3(6):e206646. doi:
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2020.6646.

Association of Specific Mental Disorders With Premature Mortality in the Danish 
Population Using Alternative Measurement Methods.

Weye N(1), Momen NC(1), Christensen MK(1)(2), Iburg KM(2), Dalsgaard S(1)(3), 
Laursen TM(1), Mortensen PB(1)(3)(4), Santomauro DF(5)(6)(7), Scott 
JG(8)(9)(10), Whiteford HA(6)(7)(10), McGrath JJ(1)(10)(11), Plana-Ripoll O(1).

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Register-Based Research, School of Business and Social 
Sciences, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.
(2)Department of Public Health, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.
(3)The Lundbeck Foundation Initiative for Integrative Psychiatric Research 
(iPSYCH), Aarhus, Denmark.
(4)Centre for Integrated Register-Based Research, Aarhus University, Aarhus, 
Denmark.
(5)Queensland Centre for Mental Health Research, Brisbane, Queensland, 
Australia.
(6)School of Public Health, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, 
Australia.
(7)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle.
(8)QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Herston, Queensland, Australia.
(9)Metro North Mental Health Service, Herston, Queensland, Australia.
(10)Queensland Centre for Mental Health Research, The Park Centre for Mental 
Health, Wacol, Queensland, Australia.
(11)Queensland Brain Institute, University of Queensland, St Lucia, Queensland, 
Australia.

IMPORTANCE: The association of mental disorders with premature mortality 
published in the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) studies has been underestimated 
because these analyses have recommended using only a small number of mental 
disorders as causes of death to estimate years of life lost (YLL). Alternative 
methods have been introduced, such as estimating life-years lost (LYL), to 
compare individuals with mental disorders with the general population.
OBJECTIVES: To generate register-based YLL and LYL estimates and to use these 
measurement methods to assess the association of specific mental disorders with 
premature mortality.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This population-based cohort study included 
all persons with and without mental disorders aged 0 to 94 years who were living 
in Denmark between January 1, 2000, and December 31, 2015. Data were analyzed 
from January to December 2019.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Danish health registers were used to identify mental 
disorder diagnoses, dates of death, and causes of death. The YLLs were estimated 
for the set of mental health-associated causes of death, and all-cause and 
cause-specific LYLs were estimated for 18 specific mental disorders and 3 broad 
categories of mental disorders that were recommended for use in the GBD studies. 
The association between the number of comorbid mental disorders (divided into 
categories of persons with ≥1 type of disorder, ≥2 types of disorders, ≥3 types 
of disorders, and ≥4 types of disorders) and LYL estimates was also examined.
RESULTS: A total of 6 989 627 individuals (3 481 219 male persons [49.8%] and 
3 508 408 female persons [50.2%]; mean [SD] age at study enrollment, 32.2 [24.4] 
years) were followed up for a total of 85 911 461 person-years. The YLL rates 
per 100 000 person-years were highest for alcohol use disorder (for male 
individuals, 568.7 [95% CI, 564.4-572.7]; for female individuals, 155.5 [95% CI, 
153.5-157.9]) and suicide (for male individuals, 590.1 [95% CI, 583.8-596.5]; 
for female individuals, 202.3 [95% CI, 198.5-206.4]). Although only 3 of 18 
mental and substance use disorders could be associated with YLL, all mental 
disorders were associated with shorter life expectancies when LYL was used for 
measurement. Male and female individuals diagnosed with any mental disorder had 
life expectancies that were shorter by 11.2 years (95% CI, 11.1-11.3 years) and 
7.9 years (95% CI, 7.8-8.0 years), respectively, and remaining life expectancy 
decreased further among those with comorbid mental disorders. Drug use disorders 
were associated with the highest excess LYL estimates; however, common mental 
disorders, such as depressive and anxiety disorders, were also associated with 
substantial premature mortality.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Mental disorders were observed to be associated with 
reductions in life expectancy. This finding provides a foundation for future 
intervention programs designed to reduce the differential mortality gap 
associated with mental disorders. Register-based studies allow the calculation 
of precise individual-level YLLs and LYLs, and both measurement methods are 
informative for health care planning. Compared with YLL, the novel LYL 
measurement approach may more precisely capture the association of mental 
disorders with premature mortality and facilitates the exploration of 
comorbidity and specific causes of death in individuals with mental disorders.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2020.6646
PMCID: PMC7272122
PMID: 32492163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None reported.


516. J Clin Med. 2020 Jun 1;9(6):1653. doi: 10.3390/jcm9061653.

Interaction between the Number of Chemotherapy Cycles and Brachytherapy 
Dose/Volume Parameters in Locally Advanced Cervical Cancer Patients.

Escande A(1)(2)(3), Khettab M(2), Bockel S(1)(2), Dumas I(1)(2), Schernberg 
A(1)(2), Gouy S(4), Morice P(4), Pautier P(5), Deutsch E(2), Haie-Meder C(1)(2), 
Chargari C(1)(2)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Brachytherapy Unit, Gustave Roussy Cancer Campus, F-94800 Villejuif, France.
(2)Radiotherapy Department, Gustave Roussy, F-94800 Villejuif, France.
(3)Academic Radiotherapy Department, Oscar Lambret Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
F-59800 Lille, France.
(4)Surgery Department, Gustave Roussy Cancer Campus, F-94800 Villejuif, France.
(5)Medical Oncology, Gustave Roussy Cancer Campus, F-94800 Villejuif, France.
(6)Biological Effects of Radiation, Institut de Recherche Biomédicale des 
Armées, F-91220 Bretigny-sur-Orge, France.
(7)French Military Health Academy, Ecole du Val-de-Grâce, F-75005 Paris, France.

Scarce data exist on concurrent chemotherapy in locally advanced cervical cancer 
(LACC) patients (pts) treated with image-guided adaptive brachytherapy (IGABT). 
We examined the effect of a number of chemotherapy cycles and their interaction 
with brachytherapy dose/volume parameters. Clinical records of 209 consecutive 
pts treated for a LACC were reviewed. Pts received CRT concurrently with 
cisplatin 40 mg/m² or carboplatin AUC2. An additional cycle could have been 
delivered during the pulse-dose rate (PDR)-IGABT. The impact of a number of 
chemotherapy cycles on outcome was examined, as well as the interactions with 
dose volume parameters. The number of cycles was four in 55 (26.3%) pts, five in 
154 (73.7%) including 101 receiving the fifth cycle during IGABT. Median 
follow-up was 5.5 years. Pts receiving five cycles had a better outcome on all 
survival endpoints, including three year local control rate (93.9% vs. 77.2%; p 
< 0.05). In the subgroup, only pts with tumor FIGO (Fédération Internationale de 
Gynécologie Obstétrique) stage ≤IIB or with CTVHR > 25 cm3 had a better outcome. 
Pts receiving four cycles with D90CTVHR > 80GyEQD2 had the same locoregional 
control-(LRC) as those receiving five cycles and achieving D90CTVHR ≤ 80 GyEQD2 
(p = 0.75). An optimal propensity score matching the balance for the FIGO stage, 
CTVHR volume and D90CTVHR confirmed the effect, with the largest life expectancy 
benefit for locoregional failure-free survival (absolute gain: 1.5 years; p = 
0.017). Long-term radiation-induced toxicity was not increased. Increasing the 
total number of cycles from 4 to 5 improved LFS, suggesting a place for systemic 
strategies aimed at in-field cooperation. Delivering an additional cycle at the 
time of brachytherapy did not increase morbidity and there permitted an increase 
in chemotherapy dose intensity.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm9061653
PMCID: PMC7356737
PMID: 32492777

Conflict of interest statement: Cyrus Chargari declares he has 
consulting/advisory relationship with Takeda®, MSD, and is investigator in 
studies involving Roche® and TherAGuIX. Other authors declare no conflict of 
interest.


517. Foods. 2020 Jun 1;9(6):699. doi: 10.3390/foods9060699.

Innovative Hurdle Technologies for the Preservation of Functional Fruit Juices.

Putnik P(1), Pavlić B(2), Šojić B(2), Zavadlav S(3), Žuntar I(4), Kao L(1), 
Kitonić D(1), Kovačević DB(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Food Technology and Biotechnology, University of Zagreb, 
Pierottijeva 6, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia.
(2)Faculty of Technology Novi Sad, University of Novi Sad, Bulevar cara Lazara 
1, 21000 Novi Sad, Serbia.
(3)Department of Food Technology, Karlovac University of Applied Sciences, Trg 
J. J. Strossmayera 9, 47000 Karlovac, Croatia.
(4)Faculty of Pharmacy and Biochemistry, University of Zagreb, Ante Kovačića 1, 
10000 Zagreb, Croatia.

Functional nutrition, which includes the consumption of fruit juices, has become 
the field of interest for those seeking a healthy lifestyle. Functional 
nutrition is also of great interest to the food industry, with the aims of 
improving human health and providing economic prosperity in a sustainable 
manner. The functional food sector is the most profitable part of the food 
industry, with a fast-growing market resulting from new sociodemographic trends 
(e.g., longer life expectancy, higher standard of living, better health care), 
which often includes sustainable concepts of food production. Therefore, the 
demand for hurdle technology in the food industry is growing, along with the 
consumption of minimally processed foods, not only because this approach 
inactivates microorganisms in food, but because it can also prolong the shelf 
life of food products. To preserve food products such as fruit juices, the 
hurdle technology approach often uses non-thermal methods as alternatives to 
pasteurization, which can cause a decrease in the nutritional value and quality 
of the food. Non-thermal technologies are often combined with different hurdles, 
such as antimicrobial additives, thermal treatment, and ultraviolet or pulsed 
light, to achieve synergistic effects and overall quality improvements in 
(functional) juices. Hence, hurdle technology could be a promising approach for 
the preservation of fruit juices due to its efficiency and low impact on juice 
quality and characteristics, although all processing parameters still require 
optimization.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9060699
PMCID: PMC7353510
PMID: 32492780

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


518. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2020 Jun;13(6):e006313. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.119.006313. Epub 2020 Jun 4.

Health and Economic Impacts of the National Menu Calorie Labeling Law in the 
United States: A Microsimulation Study.

Liu J(#)(1), Mozaffarian D(#)(1), Sy S(2), Lee Y(1), Wilde PE(1), 
Abrahams-Gessel S(3), Gaziano T(#)(2)(3), Micha R(#)(1); FOOD-PRICE (Policy 
Review and Intervention Cost-Effectiveness) Project.

Author information:
(1)Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy, Tufts University, Boston, MA 
(J.L., D.M., Y.L., P.E.W., R.M.).
(2)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA (S.S., T.G.).
(3)Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA (S.A.-G., T.G.).
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2020 Jun;13(6):e006853.

BACKGROUND: Excess caloric intake is linked to weight gain, obesity, and related 
diseases, including type 2 diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease (CVD). 
Obesity incidence is rising, with nearly 3 in 4 US adults being overweight or 
obese. In 2018, the US federal government finalized the implementation of 
mandatory labeling of calorie content on all menu items across major chain 
restaurants nationally as a strategy to support informed consumer choice, reduce 
caloric intake, and potentially encourage restaurant reformulations. Yet, the 
potential health and economic impacts of this policy remain unclear.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We used a validated microsimulation model (CVD-PREDICT) to 
estimate reductions in CVD events, diabetes mellitus cases, gains in 
quality-adjusted life years, costs, and cost-effectiveness of the menu calorie 
labeling intervention, based on consumer responses alone, and further accounting 
for potential industry reformulation. The model incorporated nationally 
representative demographic and dietary data from National Health and Nutrition 
Examination Surveys 2009 to 2016; policy effects on consumer diets and body mass 
index-disease effects from published meta-analyses; and policy effects on 
industry reformulation, policy costs (policy administration, industry 
compliance, and reformulation), and health-related costs (formal and informal 
healthcare costs, productivity costs) from established sources or reasonable 
assumptions. We modeled change in calories to change in weight using an 
established dynamic weight-change model, assuming 50% of expected calorie 
reductions would translate to long-term reductions. Findings were evaluated over 
5 years and a lifetime from healthcare and societal perspectives, with 
uncertainty incorporated in both 1-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses. 
Between 2018 and 2023, implementation of the restaurant menu calorie labeling 
law was estimated, based on consumer response alone, to prevent 14 698 new CVD 
cases (including 1575 CVD deaths) and 21 522 new type 2 diabetes mellitus cases, 
gaining 8749 quality-adjusted life years. Over a lifetime, corresponding values 
were 135 781 new CVD cases (including 27 646 CVD deaths), 99 736 type 2 diabetes 
mellitus cases, and 367 450 quality-adjusted life years. Assuming modest 
restaurant item reformulation, both health and economic benefits were estimated 
to be about 2-fold larger than based on consumer response alone. The consumer 
response alone was estimated to be cost-saving by 2023, with net lifetime 
savings of $10.42B from a healthcare perspective and $12.71B from a societal 
perspective. Findings were robust in a range of sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Our national model suggests that the full implementation of the US 
calorie menu labeling law will generate significant health gains and healthcare 
and societal cost-savings. Industry responses to modestly reformulate menu items 
would provide even larger additional benefits.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.119.006313
PMCID: PMC7299757
PMID: 32493057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest All authors report support 
from NIH grants during the conduct of the study. In addition, Dr. Micha reports 
research funding from Unilever, Nestle and Danone, and personal fees from the 
World Bank and Bunge; Dr. Mozaffarian, personal fees from GOED, Nutrition 
Impact, Bunge, Indigo Agriculture, Motif FoodWorks, Amarin, Acasti Pharma, 
Cleveland Clinic Foundation, America’s Test Kitchen, and Danone; scientific 
advisory board, Brightseed, DayTwo, Elysium Health, Filtricine, HumanCo, and 
Tiny Organics; and chapter royalties from UpToDate; and Dr. Gaziano reports 
research funding from United HealthCare, Teva, Novartis, and consulting from 
Takeda; all outside the submitted work.


519. Circulation. 2020 Jul 28;142(4):354-364. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.119.044559.  Epub 2020 Jun 4.

Impact of Transcatheter Aortic Valve Durability on Life Expectancy in Low-Risk 
Patients With Severe Aortic Stenosis.

Tam DY(1)(2), Wijeysundera HC(3)(2)(4), Naimark D(2), Gaudino M(5), Webb JG(6), 
Cohen DJ(7), Fremes SE(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiac Surgery, Departments of Surgery (D.Y.T., S.E.F.), 
University of Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Schulich Heart Centre, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, and Institute of 
Health Policy, Management and Evaluation (D.Y.T., H.C.W., D.N., S.E.F.), 
University of Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)Medicine (H.C.W.), University of Toronto, ON, Canada.
(4)ICES, Toronto, ON, Canada (H.C.W.).
(5)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York 
(M.G.).
(6)Center for Heart Valve Innovation, St. Paul's Hospital, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, Canada (J.G.W.).
(7)Kansas City, MO (D.J.C.).

BACKGROUND: Recent clinical trial results showed that transcatheter aortic valve 
replacement (TAVR) is noninferior and may be superior to surgical aortic valve 
replacement (SAVR) for mortality, stroke, and rehospitalization. However, the 
impact of transcatheter valve durability remains uncertain.
METHODS: Discrete event simulation was used to model hypothetical scenarios of 
TAVR versus SAVR durability in which TAVR failure times were varied to determine 
the impact of TAVR valve durability on life expectancy in a cohort of low-risk 
patients similar to those in recent trials. Discrete event simulation modeling 
was used to estimate the tradeoff between a less invasive procedure with unknown 
valve durability (TAVR) and that of a more invasive procedure with known 
durability (SAVR). Standardized differences were calculated, and a difference 
>0.10 was considered clinically significant. In the base-case analysis, patients 
with structural valve deterioration requiring reoperation were assumed to 
undergo a valve-in-valve TAVR procedure. A sensitivity analysis was conducted to 
determine the impact of TAVR valve durability on life expectancy in younger age 
groups (40, 50, and 60 years).
RESULTS: Our cohort consisted of patients with aortic stenosis at low surgical 
risk with a mean age of 73.4±5.9 years. In the base-case scenario, the 
standardized difference in life expectancy was <0.10 between TAVR and SAVR until 
transcatheter valve prosthesis failure time was 70% shorter than that of 
surgical prostheses. At a transcatheter valve failure time <30% compared with 
surgical valves, SAVR was the preferred option. In younger patients, life 
expectancy was reduced when TAVR durability was 30%, 40%, and 50% shorter than 
that of surgical valves in 40-, 50-, and 60-year-old patients, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: According to our simulation models, the durability of TAVR valves 
must be 70% shorter than that of surgical valves to result in reduced life 
expectancy in patients with demographics similar to those of recent trials. 
However, in younger patients, this threshold for TAVR valve durability was 
substantially higher. These findings suggest that durability concerns should not 
influence the initial treatment decision concerning TAVR versus SAVR in older 
low-risk patients on the basis of current evidence supporting TAVR valve 
durability. However, in younger low-risk patients, valve durability must be 
weighed against other patient factors such as life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.119.044559
PMID: 32493077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. BMC Public Health. 2020 Jun 3;20(1):839. doi: 10.1186/s12889-020-08932-x.

Non-communicable diseases are key to further narrow gender gap in life 
expectancy in Shanghai, China.

Chen H(1)(2), Zhou Y(1)(2), Sun L(1)(2), Chen Y(1)(2), Qu X(1)(2), Chen H(1)(2), 
Rajbhandari-Thapa J(3), Xiao S(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Science Research and Information Management, Shanghai Pudong 
New Area Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Shanghai, 200136, China.
(2)Fudan University Pudong Institute of Preventive Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(3)College of Public Health, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, USA. 
jrthapa@uga.edu.
(4)Department of Science Research and Information Management, Shanghai Pudong 
New Area Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Shanghai, 200136, China. 
pujdn55@163.com.
(5)Fudan University Pudong Institute of Preventive Medicine, Shanghai, China. 
pujdn55@163.com.

BACKGROUND: To address change in the gender gap of life expectancy (GGLE) in 
Shanghai from 1973 to 2018, and to identify the major causes of death and age 
groups associated with the change over time.
METHODS: The temporal trend in GGLE was evaluated using retrospective 
demographic analysis with Joinpoint regression. Causes of death were coded in 
accordance with the International Classification of Diseases and mapped with the 
Global Burden of Disease (GBD) cause list. The life table technique and 
decomposition method were used to express changes in GGLE.
RESULTS: The trend of GGLE in Shanghai experienced two phases, i.e., a decrease 
from 8.4 to 4.2 years in the descent phase (1973-1999) and a fluctuation between 
4.0 and 4.9 years in the plateau phase (1999-2018). The reduced age-specific 
mortality rates tended to concentrate to a narrower age range, from age 0-9 and 
above 30 years in the descent phase to age above 55 years in the plateau phase. 
Gastroesophageal and liver cancer, communicable, chronic respiratory, and 
digestive diseases were once the major contributors to narrow GGLE in the 
descent phase. While, importance should be attached to a widening effect on GGLE 
by lung cancer, cardiovascular diseases, other neoplasms like colorectal and 
pancreatic cancer, and diabetes in the recent plateau phase.
CONCLUSIONS: Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) have made GGLE enter a plateau 
phase from a descent phase in Shanghai, China. Public efforts to reduce excess 
mortalities for male NCDs, cancers, cardiovascular diseases, chronic respiratory 
diseases, and diabetes in particular and health policies focused on the 
middle-aged and elderly population might further narrow GGLE. This will also 
ensure improvements in health and health equity in Shanghai China.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-020-08932-x
PMCID: PMC7268263
PMID: 32493253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


521. J Innov Card Rhythm Manag. 2018 Apr 15;9(4):3095-3106. doi: 
10.19102/icrm.2018.090402. eCollection 2018 Apr.

Left Atrial Appendage Occlusion: What Are the Options and Where is the Evidence?

Chava R(1), Turagam MK(2), Lakkireddy DD(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, MedStar Harbor Hospital, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Section of Electrophysiology, Mount Sinai Hospital, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases, Cardiovascular Research Institute, 
University of Kansas Hospital and Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, USA.

Left atrial appendage occlusion (LAAO) has emerged as an effective site-directed 
therapy in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (AF) for stroke 
prevention, who are ineligible for long-term oral anticoagulation. The objective 
of this study was to assess the safety, efficacy, and availability of LAAO 
devices by reviewing the literature and to review the development and 
effectiveness of LAAO by the transcatheter approach with plugging devices such 
as WATCHMAN™ (Boston Scientific, Natick, MA, USA); AMPLATZER™ Cardiac Plug and 
AMPLATZER™ Amulet™ (Abbott Laboratories, Chicago, IL, USA); and the LARIAT® 
Suture Delivery Device (SentreHEART, Redwood City, CA, USA), which features an 
entirely unique hybrid (endocardial and epicardial) approach in closing the left 
atrial appendage (LAA). The conducted literature review ultimately revealed a 
substantial body of literature supporting the safety and efficacy of various 
LAAO strategies, including endocardial, epicardial, and hybrid approaches, in AF 
patients who are not eligible for long-term oral anticoagulant use. 
Specifically, the most attractive population suitable for LAA closure appears to 
be patients at high risk for ischemic stroke with a longer life expectancy but a 
moderate-to-high bleeding risk with long-term oral anticoagulation. The benefit 
of LAA closure in reducing the incidence of stroke in patients with nonvalvular 
AF has been evolving gradually, and we are confident that this new field of 
percutaneous LAA closure will continue to emerge as a game-changer in the 
treatment of AF.

Copyright: © 2018 Innovations in Cardiac Rhythm Management.

DOI: 10.19102/icrm.2018.090402
PMCID: PMC7252870
PMID: 32494488

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest for 
the published content. There was no financial involvement of a pharmaceutical or 
other company in this study.


522. Acta Derm Venereol. 2020 Jun 18;100(13):adv00189. doi:
10.2340/00015555-3543.

Effect of Patient Characteristics on Treatment Decisions Regarding Keratinocyte 
Carcinoma in Elderly Patients: A Review of the Current Literature.

Haisma MS(1), Bras L, Aghdam MA, Terra JB, Plaat BEC, Rácz E, Halmos GB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University Medical Center Groningen (UMCG), 9713 
GZ Groningen, The Netherlands. E-mail: m.s.haisma@umcg.nl.

There are straightforward guidelines for treatment of keratinocyte carcinoma 
(formerly known as non-melanoma skin cancer); however, there are no clear 
recommendations specifically for elderly patients. The aim of this review was to 
provide an overview of the current literature about the effect of patient 
characteristics, specifically life expectancy, frailty and comorbidity, on 
treatment decisions in elderly patients with keratinocyte carcinoma, by 
searching PubMed database. It was found that the literature is limited and based 
mostly on small retrospective studies. Therefore, it is difficult to give firm 
recommendations about how to treat elderly people who have keratinocyte 
carcinoma. A "one-size-fits-all" approach to this population is not sufficient: 
life expectancy and frailty need to be considered in the decision-making process 
regarding treatment for elderly people with keratinocyte carcinoma. Among the 
comorbidity scores, Adult-Comorbidity-Evaluation-27-index seems to have the best 
prognostic value. Prospective studies are needed to generate more individualized 
recommendations for this increasing and often vulnerable group.

DOI: 10.2340/00015555-3543
PMCID: PMC9175037
PMID: 32494828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Drugs Aging. 2020 Aug;37(8):567-584. doi: 10.1007/s40266-020-00773-y.

Diabetic Kidney Disease in Older People with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: Improving 
Prevention and Treatment Options.

Abdelhafiz AH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Rotherham General Hospital, Moorgate Road, 
Rotherham, S60 2UD, UK. ahmedhafiz@hotmail.com.

Age-related metabolic and renal changes predispose older people to an increased 
risk of diabetes mellitus and diabetic kidney disease, respectively. As the 
prevalence of the ageing population is increasing, because of increased life 
expectancy, the prevalence of older people with diabetic kidney disease is 
likely to increase. Diabetic kidney disease is associated with an increased risk 
of adverse outcomes and increased costs to healthcare systems. The management 
includes promotion of a healthy lifestyle and control of cardiovascular risk 
factors such as hyperglycaemia, hypertension and dyslipidaemia. Older people are 
a heterogeneous group of people from a community-living fit and independent 
person to a fully dependent individual residing in a care home. Therefore, 
management in this age group should be based on a patient's functional level 
adopting tight metabolic control in the fit individual and relaxed targets in 
the frail person. However, despite the maximum available therapy, a significant 
number of patients with diabetic kidney disease still progress to renal failure 
and experience adverse cardiac outcomes. Therefore, future research is required 
to explore methods of early detection of diabetic kidney disease and to 
investigate novel therapeutic interventions to further improve the outcomes.

DOI: 10.1007/s40266-020-00773-y
PMID: 32495289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Bol Med Hosp Infant Mex. 2020;77(3):112-118. doi: 10.24875/BMHIM.19000173.

Incontinentia pigmenti: multisistemic genodermatosis.

[Article in English]

Martínez-Gayosso A(1), García-Romero MT(1).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Dermatología, Instituto Nacional de Pediatría, Ciudad de México, 
México.

Incontinentia pigmenti is an X-linked genodermatosis generally lethal in males; 
thus, it presents almost exclusively in females. It is caused by a 
loss-of-function mutation in the IKBKG (inhibitor of kappa polypeptide gene 
enhancer in B cells, kinase gamma) gene that prevents the NFкβ (nuclear factor 
kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells) protein from migrating to the 
nucleus to begin the transcription of factors that amplify the immune response 
and prevent apoptosis. Consequently, mutant cells become vulnerable to apoptosis 
when exposed to cytokines and, in turn, lead to vaso-occlusion and ischemia of 
tissues, such as the skin, the central nervous system and the retina. 
Dermatological lesions are characteristic and occur in 100% of patients; they 
are distributed along Blaschko lines, which follow the pattern of migration of 
skin cells in embryogenesis. The cutaneous manifestations follow a sequence of 
four phases since birth: vesicular, verrucous, hyperpigmented and hypopigmented. 
These lesions are relevant for the disease because they guide the clinician 
towards the diagnosis. Additionally, they are accompanied by neurological 
abnormalities, such as seizures, and multiple ophthalmological manifestations, 
such as retinal detachment. Incontinentia pigmenti patients with no clinically 
significant ophthalmic or neurological compromise have a good prognosis and a 
normal life expectancy. The abnormalities present are permanent, which can be a 
cause of concern for the patients.

Publisher: La incontinentia pigmenti es una genodermatosis ligada al cromosoma 
X, generalmente letal en los hombres. Está causada por una mutación con pérdida 
de función en el gen IKBKG (inhibitor of kappa polypeptide gene enhancer in B 
cells kinase gamma), que impide que la proteína NFкβ (nuclear factor 
kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells) migre al núcleo y comience la 
transcripción de factores que amplifican la respuesta inmunitaria y previenen la 
apoptosis. Por tanto, las células mutantes se vuelven vulnerables a la apoptosis 
cuando son expuestas a citocinas y provocan vaso-oclusión e isquemia de tejidos 
como la piel, el sistema nervioso central y la retina. Las lesiones 
dermatológicas son características; se distribuyen a lo largo de las líneas de 
Blaschko, las cuales siguen el patrón de migración de las células de la piel en 
la embriogénesis, y ocurren en el 100% de los pacientes. Las manifestaciones 
cutáneas aparecen en una secuencia de cuatro fases que inicia desde el 
nacimiento: vesicular, verrucosa, hiperpigmentada e hipopigmentada. Estas 
lesiones son relevantes, puesto que orientan al clínico hacia el diagnóstico. 
Además, se acompañan de anomalías neurológicas, como crisis convulsivas, y 
múltiples manifestaciones oftalmológicas, como el desprendimiento de la retina. 
Los pacientes con incontinentia pigmenti, pero sin compromiso oftalmológico o 
neurológico clínicamente significativo, tienen un pronóstico bueno y una 
esperanza de vida normal. Las anomalías que se presentan son permanentes, lo que 
puede generar preocupación en los pacientes.

Copyright: © 2020 Permanyer.

DOI: 10.24875/BMHIM.19000173
PMID: 32496467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. JAMA. 2020 Jul 7;324(1):35-36. doi: 10.1001/jama.2020.8459.

Hospice Carve-In-Aligning Benefits With Patient and Family Needs.

Shrank WH(1), Russell K(1), Emanuel EJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Humana Inc, Louisville, Kentucky.
(2)Perelman School of Medicine, Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

Erratum in
    JAMA. 2020 Oct 20;324(15):1572.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2020.8459
PMID: 32496529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Rev Med Liege. 2020 May;75(5-6):292-299.

[The opportunities of the minimally invasive approach for the cardiovascular and 
thoracic surgery].

[Article in French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]

Bru Ls S(1), Kerzmann A(1), Durieux R(1), Quaniers J(1), Tchana-Sato V(1), 
Lavigne JP(1), Sakalihasan N(1), Radermecker MA(1), Desiron Q(1), Szecel D(1), 
Holemans C(1), Boesmans E(1), Defraigne JO(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Cardiovasculaire et Thoracique, CHU Liège, Belgique.

There is a continuous growth in the incidence of cardiovascular and thoracic 
diseases, especially related to the increased life expectancy. Moreover, the 
quality and efficacy of care for these pathologies are progressing constantly. 
The evolution of surgery prompts us to develop less aggressive (minimally 
invasive), although technically more complex, treatment or diagnostic 
techniques. Pathologies, which until now required heavy surgeries, are managed 
today in a less invasive way and become therefore accessible to patients even if 
they are older or in a poor general condition. In this article, we present our 
experience in the development of the minimal invasive procedures in 
cardiovascular and thoracic surgery.

Publisher: Les pathologies cardiovasculaires et thoraciques, au sens large, sont 
de plus en plus fréquentes, vu l’augmentation de l’espérance de vie, mais elles 
sont aussi de mieux en mieux prises en charge. En effet, l’évolution de la 
chirurgie nous incite à développer des techniques de traitement ou de diagnostic 
moins agressives (mini-invasives) quoique techniquement plus complexes. Des 
pathologies qui nécessitaient, jusqu’à présent, des chirurgies lourdes se 
prennent en charge, aujourd’hui, de manière moins invasive et deviennent donc 
accessibles à des patients en moins bon état général ou de plus en plus âgés. 
Nous présentons ici notre expérience dans le développement de l’approche 
mini-invasive en chirurgie cardiovasculaire et thoracique.

PMID: 32496669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Rev Med Liege. 2020 May;75(5-6):322-328.

[Hemophilia : a disease on the move].

[Article in French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]

Péters P(1), Gothot A(1).

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hématologie biologique et Immunohématologie, CHU Liège, Belgique.

Over the last hundred years, the treatment of hemophilia has evolved 
considerably. To date, its principle is still to prevent the occurrence of 
hemorrhages by regular intravenous injections of factor VIII or IX concentrate. 
It allows to reach a life expectancy similar to the general population. The 
quality of life is constantly improving despite the constraint imposed by the 
modality and frequency of injections. The main complication remains the 
development of antibodies that inhibit the administered factors. Concentrates of 
long-acting factors are now available allowing to limit for example the 
frequency of injections. A bispecific monoclonal antibody reproducing the action 
of factor VIII and injectable subcutaneously has recently become available to 
hemophilia A patients, with the advantage of being effective even in the 
presence of inhibitors. Other non-substitute products are being studied offering 
interesting leads. Finally, gene therapy shows promising results, giving hope 
for access to this therapeutic option in a relatively near future. These 
advances are, however, a challenge for clinical laboratories, which must adapt 
their measurement techniques to ensure optimal monitoring. The future is on its 
way for hemophilia. Treatment remains expensive but it is worth the price.

Publisher: Depuis un siècle, le traitement de l’hémophilie a considérablement 
évolué. À ce jour, son principe est toujours de prévenir la survenue 
d’hémorragies par injections intraveineuses régulières de concentré de facteur 
VIII ou IX. Il permet d’atteindre une espérance de vie similaire à la population 
générale. La qualité de vie est en constante amélioration, malgré la contrainte 
imposée par les modalités et la fréquence des injections. La complication 
principale reste le développement d’anticorps inhibant les facteurs administrés. 
Des concentrés de facteurs à action prolongée sont, maintenant, disponibles et 
permettent, notamment, de limiter la fréquence des injections. Un anticorps 
monoclonal bispécifique reproduisant l’action du facteur VIII et injectable par 
voie sous-cutanée est, depuis peu, à la disposition des patients hémophiles A, 
avec l’avantage d’être efficace même en présence d’inhibiteurs. D’autres 
produits non substitutifs sont à l’étude offrant des pistes intéressantes. 
Enfin, la thérapie génique montre des résultats prometteurs, laissant espérer un 
accès à cette option thérapeutique dans un futur relativement proche. Ces 
avancées sont cependant un défi pour les laboratoires d’analyse qui doivent 
adapter leurs techniques de mesure pour assurer un suivi optimal. Le futur est 
en marche pour l’hémophilie. Le traitement reste coûteux, mais il en vaut le 
prix.

PMID: 32496674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2021;61(12):2078-2089. doi: 
10.1080/10408398.2020.1770687. Epub 2020 Jun 4.

Hyperbaric storage at room like temperatures as a possible alternative to 
refrigeration: evolution and recent advances.

Santos MD(1), Fidalgo LG(1), Pinto CA(1), Duarte RV(1), Lemos ÁT(1), Delgadillo 
I(1), Saraiva JA(1).

Author information:
(1)QOPNA & LAQV-REQUIMTE, Department of Chemistry, University of Aveiro, Aveiro, 
Portugal.

From 2012, the preservation of food products under pressure has been 
increasingly studied and the knowledge acquired has enlarged since several food 
products have been studied at different storage conditions. This new food 
preservation methodology concept called Hyperbaric Storage (HS) has gain 
relevance due to its potential as a replacement or an improvement to the 
conventional cold storage processes, such as the traditional refrigeration (RF), 
or even frosting, from the energetic savings to the reduction of the carbon 
foot-print. Briefly, HS is capable to inhibit the microbial proliferation or its 
inactivation which results in the extension of the shelf-life of several food 
products when compared to RF. Moreover, the overall quality parameters seem not 
to be affected by HS, being the differences detected on samples over storage 
similar to lower when compared to the ones stored at RF. This review paper aims 
to gather data from all studies carried out so far regarding HS performance, 
mainly at room temperature on fruit juices, meat and fisheries, as well on dairy 
products and ready-to-eat meals. The HS advantages as a new food preservation 
methodology are presented and explained, being also discussed the industrial 
viability and environmental impact of this methodology, as well its limitations.

DOI: 10.1080/10408398.2020.1770687
PMID: 32496815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Haemophilia. 2020 Nov;26(6):e262-e271. doi: 10.1111/hae.14036. Epub 2020 Jun
4.

Long-term safety and sustained efficacy for up to 5 years of treatment with 
recombinant factor IX Fc fusion protein in subjects with haemophilia B: Results 
from the B-YOND extension study.

Pasi KJ(1), Fischer K(2), Ragni M(3), Kulkarni R(4), Ozelo MC(5), Mahlangu J(6), 
Shapiro A(7), P'Ng S(8), Chambost H(9), Nolan B(10), Bennett C(11), Matsushita 
T(12), Winding B(13), Fruebis J(14), Yuan H(15), Rudin D(14), Oldenburg J(16).

Author information:
(1)Royal London Haemophilia Centre, Barts and The London School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK.
(2)Van Creveldkliniek, University Medical Center, Utrecht, Netherlands.
(3)Hemophilia Center of Western Pennsylvania, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(4)Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, USA.
(5)Hemocentro UNICAMP, University of Campinas, Campinas, Brazil.
(6)Haemophilia Comprehensive Care Centre, Faculty of Health Sciences, University 
of the Witwatersrand, and Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital and 
National Health Laboratory Service, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(7)Indiana Hemophilia & Thrombosis Center, Inc., Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(8)The Haemophilia and Haemostasis Centre, Fiona Stanley Hospital, Murdoch, WA, 
Australia.
(9)Children's Hospital La Timone, and Aix Marseille University, INSERM, INRA, 
C2VN, Marseille, France.
(10)Children's Health Ireland at Crumlin, Dublin, Ireland.
(11)Emory University School of Medicine, Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center 
of Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(12)Nagoya University Hospital, Nagoya, Japan.
(13)Sobi, Stockholm, Sweden.
(14)Bioverativ, a Sanofi company, Waltham, MA, USA.
(15)Sanofi, Waltham, MA, USA.
(16)Institute of Experimental Haematology and Transfusion Medicine, University 
Clinic Bonn, Bonn, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Recombinant factor IX Fc fusion protein (rFIXFc) has demonstrated 
efficacy for treatment of haemophilia B in the Phase 3 B-LONG and Kids B-LONG 
studies. However, long-term rFIXFc safety and efficacy data have not yet been 
reported.
AIM: To report long-term rFIXFc safety and efficacy in subjects with haemophilia 
B.
METHODS: B-YOND (NCT01425723) was an open-label extension for eligibl previously 
treated subjects who completed B-LONG or Kids B-LONG. Subjects received ≥1 
treatment regimen: weekly prophylaxis (WP), individualized interval prophylaxis 
(IP), modified prophylaxis or episodic treatment. Subjects could switch regimens 
at any time. The primary endpoint was inhibitor development.
RESULTS: Ninety-three subjects from B-LONG and 27 from Kids B-LONG (aged 
3-63 years) were enrolled. Most subjects received WP (B-LONG: n = 51; Kids 
B-LONG: n = 23). For subjects from B-LONG, median (range) treatment duration was 
4.0 (0.3-5.4) years and median (range) number of exposure days (EDs) was 146 
(8-462) EDs. Corresponding values for paediatric subjects were 2.6 (0.2-3.9) 
years and 132 (50-256) EDs. No inhibitors were observed (0 per 1000 
subject-years; 95% confidence interval, 0-8.9) and the overall rFIXFc safety 
profile was consistent with prior studies. Annualized bleed rates remained low 
and extended-dosing intervals were maintained for most subjects. Median dosing 
interval for the IP group was approximately 14 days for adults and adolescents 
(n = 31) and 10 days for paediatric subjects (n = 5).
CONCLUSIONS: B-YOND results confirm the long-term (up to 5 years, with 
cumulative duration up to 6.5 years) well-characterized safety and efficacy of 
rFIXFc treatment for haemophilia B.

© 2020 The Authors. Haemophilia published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hae.14036
PMID: 32497409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Mol Cell. 2020 Jul 2;79(1):115-126.e6. doi: 10.1016/j.molcel.2020.05.005.
Epub  2020 Jun 3.

Single-Molecule Imaging of Telomerase RNA Reveals a Recruitment-Retention Model 
for Telomere Elongation.

Laprade H(1), Querido E(1), Smith MJ(2), Guérit D(1), Crimmins H(2), Conomos 
D(2), Pourret E(1), Chartrand P(3), Sfeir A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine, Université de Montréal, 
Montreal, QC H3C 3J7, Canada.
(2)Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine, Cell Biology Department, NYU 
School of Medicine, New York, NY 10016, USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine, Université de Montréal, 
Montreal, QC H3C 3J7, Canada. Electronic address: p.chartrand@umontreal.ca.
(4)Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine, Cell Biology Department, NYU 
School of Medicine, New York, NY 10016, USA. Electronic address: 
agnel.sfeir@med.nyu.edu.

Extension of telomeres is a critical step in the immortalization of cancer 
cells. This complex reaction requires proper spatiotemporal coordination of 
telomerase and telomeres and remains poorly understood at the cellular level. To 
understand how cancer cells execute this process, we combine CRISPR genome 
editing and MS2 RNA tagging to image single molecules of telomerase RNA (hTR). 
Real-time dynamics and photoactivation experiments of hTR in Cajal bodies (CBs) 
reveal that hTERT controls the exit of hTR from CBs. Single-molecule tracking of 
hTR at telomeres shows that TPP1-mediated recruitment results in short 
telomere-telomerase scanning interactions, and then base pairing between hTR and 
telomere ssDNA promotes long interactions required for stable telomerase 
retention. Interestingly, POT1 OB-fold mutations that result in abnormally long 
telomeres in cancers act by enhancing this retention step. In summary, 
single-molecule imaging unveils the life cycle of telomerase RNA and provides a 
framework to reveal how cancer-associated mutations mechanistically drive 
defects in telomere homeostasis.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molcel.2020.05.005
PMID: 32497497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests A.S. is a co-founder of 
Repare Therapeutics and a member of its scientific advisory board.


531. Int J Surg. 2020 Jul;79:206-212. doi: 10.1016/j.ijsu.2020.05.072. Epub 2020
Jun  1.

Perspectives on how to navigate cancer surgery in the breast, head and neck, 
skin, and soft tissue tumor in limited-resource countries during COVID-19 
pandemic.

Anwar SL(1), Harahap WA(2), Aryandono T(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Surgical Oncology - Department of Surgery, Dr Sardjito Hospital / 
Faculty of Medicine, Public Health, and Nursing, Universitas Gadjah Mada, 
Yogyakarta, 55281, Indonesia. Electronic address: sl.anwar@ugm.ac.id.
(2)Division of Surgical Oncology - Department of Surgery, Dr M. Djamil Hospital 
/ Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Andalas, Padang, 25217, Indonesia.
(3)Division of Surgical Oncology - Department of Surgery, Dr Sardjito Hospital / 
Faculty of Medicine, Public Health, and Nursing, Universitas Gadjah Mada, 
Yogyakarta, 55281, Indonesia.

The rapidly spreading coronavirus infection (COVID-19) worldwide has contracted 
all aspects of health systems. Developing countries that mostly have a weaker 
healthcare system and insufficient resources are likely to be the most hardly 
affected by the pandemic. Cancers are frequently diagnosed in late stages with 
higher case-fatality rates compared to those in high-income countries. Delayed 
diagnosis, lack of cancer awareness, low adherence to treatment, and unequal or 
limited access to treatment are among the challenging factors of cancer 
management in developing countries. Elective cancer surgeries are often 
considered to be postponed during COVID-19 pandemic to preserve valuable 
hospital resources such as personal protection equipment, hospital bed, 
intensive care unit capacity, and manpower to screen and treat the affected 
individuals. However, specific considerations to defer cancer surgery in 
developing countries might need to be carefully adjusted to counterbalance 
between preventing COVID-19 transmission and preserving patients 'long-term life 
expectancy and quality of life.

Copyright © 2020 IJS Publishing Group Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijsu.2020.05.072
PMCID: PMC7832808
PMID: 32497751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All authors 
have declared that they have no potential conflicting interests.


532. Genes (Basel). 2020 Jun 2;11(6):612. doi: 10.3390/genes11060612.

3'-UTR Polymorphisms of Vitamin B-Related Genes Are Associated with Osteoporosis 
and Osteoporotic Vertebral Compression Fractures (OVCFs) in Postmenopausal 
Women.

Ahn TK(1), Kim JO(2), An HJ(3), Park HS(3), Choi UY(4), Sohn S(4), Kim KT(5)(6), 
Kim NK(3), Han IB(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, CHA Bundang Medical Center, CHA University, 
Seongnam 13496, Korea.
(2)Theragen Bio Co., Ltd. 145, Gwanggyo-ro, Yeongtong-gu, Suwon 16229, Korea.
(3)Department of Biomedical Science, College of Life Science, CHA University, 
Seongnam 13488, Korea.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, CHA Bundang Medical Center, CHA University, 
Seongnam 13496, Korea.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, School of Medicine, Kyungpook National 
University, Daegu 41944, Korea.
(6)Department of Neurosurgery, Kyungpook National University Hospital, Daegu 
41944, Korea.

As life expectancy increases, the prevalence of osteoporosis is increasing. In 
addition to vitamin D which is well established to have an association with 
osteoporosis, B vitamins, such as thiamine, folate (vitamin B9), and cobalamin 
(vitamin B12), could affect bone metabolism, bone quality, and fracture risk in 
humans by influencing homocysteine/folate metabolism. Despite the crucial role 
of B vitamins in bone metabolism, there are few studies regarding associations 
between B vitamin-related genes and osteoporosis. In this study, we investigated 
the genetic association of four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within 
