(4)Capital Institute of Pediatrics, Beijing, China.
(5)Obstetrics & Gynecology Hospital, Institute of Reproduction & Development, 
Fudan University, Shanghai, China. zhengyf@fudan.edu.cn.
(6)Institute of Developmental Biology & Molecular Medicine, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China. zhengyf@fudan.edu.cn.
(7)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, Collaborative Innovation Center 
of Genetics and Development, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China. zhengyf@fudan.edu.cn.

Neural tube defects (NTDs) are debilitating human congenital abnormalities due 
to failure of neural tube closure. Sonic Hedgehog (SHH) signaling is required 
for dorsal-ventral patterning of the neural tube. The loss of activation in SHH 
signaling normally causes holoprosencephaly while the loss of inhibition causes 
exencephaly due to failure in neural tube closure. WDR34 is a dynein intermedia 
chain component which is required for SHH activation. However, Wdr34 knockout 
mouse exhibit exencephaly. Here we screened mutations in WDR34 gene in 100 
anencephaly patients of Chinese Han population. Compared to 1000 Genome Project 
data, two potentially disease causing missense mutations of WDR34 gene 
(c.1177G>A; p.G393S and c.1310A>G; p.Y437C) were identified in anencephaly 
patients. These two mutations did not affect the protein expression level of 
WDR34. Luciferase reporter and endogenous target gene expression level showed 
that both mutations are lose-of-function mutations in SHH signaling. 
Surprisingly, WDR34 could promote planar cell polarity (PCP) signaling and the 
G393S lost this promoting effect on PCP signaling. Morpholino knockdown of wdr34 
in zebrafish caused severe convergent extension defects and pericardial 
abnormalities. The G393S mutant has less rescuing effects than both WT and Y437C 
WDR34 in zebrafish. Our results suggested that mutation in WDR34 could 
contribute to human NTDs by affecting both SHH and PCP signaling.

DOI: 10.1038/s10038-020-0793-z
PMCID: PMC7527273
PMID: 32576942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


780. Heliyon. 2020 Jun 17;6(6):e04189. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e04189. 
eCollection 2020 Jun.

Integration of microbubbles with biomaterials in tissue engineering for 
pharmaceutical purposes.

Esmaeili J(1)(2), Rezaei FS(3), Beram FM(4), Barati A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Arak University, 
Arak, Iran.
(2)Histogenotech Co., R&D Department, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Amir Kabir 
University, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Chemistry, Isfahan University, Isfahan, 
Iran.

Tissue engineering with the aid of biomaterials is a novel and promising 
knowledge aiming at improving human life expectancy. Besides, microbubbles are 
increasingly employed in biomedical applications due to their capability as a 
reservoir of therapeutic agents and oxygen molecules. In the present study, 
Microbubbles as the backbone of the research are produced as one of the potent 
devices in tissue engineering approaches, including drug delivery, wound 
healing, 3D printing, and scaffolding. It was shown that microbubbles are 
capable of promoting oxygen penetration and boosting the wound healing process 
by supplying adequate oxygen. Microbubbles also demonstrated their strength and 
potency in advancing drug delivery systems by reinforcing mass transfer 
phenomena. Furthermore, microbubbles developed the mechanical and biological 
characteristics of engineered scaffolds by manipulating the pores. Increasing 
cell survival, the biological activity of cells, angiogenesis, cell migration, 
and also nutrient diffusion into the inner layers of the scaffold were other 
achievements by microbubbles. In conclusion, the interest of biomedical 
communities in simultaneous usage of microbubbles and biomaterials under tissue 
engineering approaches experiences remarkable growth in Pharmaceutical studies.

© 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e04189
PMCID: PMC7303999
PMID: 32577567781. EClinicalMedicine. 2020 Jun 15;23:100415. doi: 10.1016/j.eclinm.2020.100415.
 eCollection 2020 Jun.

Weights for ordinal analyses of the modified Rankin Scale in stroke trials: A 
population-based cohort study.

Ganesh A(1), Luengo-Fernandez R(1), Pendlebury ST(1), Rothwell PM(1); Oxford 
Vascular Study.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Prevention of Stroke and Dementia, Nuffield Department of Clinical 
Neurosciences, University of Oxford, Level 6, West Wing, John Radcliffe 
Hospital, Oxford OX3 9DU, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Ordinal/shift analyses of ordered measures like the modified Rankin 
Scale(mRS) are underused as primary trial outcomes for neurological disorders - 
despite statistical advantages - potentially hindered by poor clinical 
interpretability versus dichotomies, and by valuing state-transitions equally 
(linear scale). Weighted ordinal analyses incorporating step-changes at key 
transitions might have greater statistical validity and clinical applicability.
METHODS: In a prospective population-based cohort of ischaemic stroke (Oxford 
Vascular Study, recruited 2002-2014), we stratified 5-year outcomes of death, 
dementia, and/or institutionalization, health/social-care costs, and 
EuroQol-derived quality-adjusted life-expectancy(QALE) by 3-month mRS. We 
compared root-mean-square errors(RMSEs) from linear regressions for these 
outcomes with the mRS coded as a linear scale versus incorporating a spline at 
transitions 1-2, 2-3, or 3-4. We derived 3-month mRS weights for probability of 
5-year death/dementia/institutionalization using age/sex-adjusted logistic 
regressions, and cost and QALE weights from 1000-bootstraps. We applied these 
weights to analyse recent trials of thrombectomy for acute ischaemic stroke.
FINDINGS: Among 1,607 patients, a non-linear (S-shaped) relationship was 
observed between 3-month mRS and each 5-year outcome, with RMSEs 18-73% lower 
using a spline at mRS 2-3 versus a linear representation. Age/sex-adjusted 
probability weights for 5-year death/dementia/institutionalization were: mRS 
0=0.19; 1=0.27; 2=0.41; 3=0.73; 4=0.77; 5=0.94 (mRS 6=1 by definition). Similar 
trends were seen with costs; estimated 5-year QALEs were: mRS 0=3.88; 1=3.49; 
2=3.01; 3=1.87; 4=1.30; 5=0.06; 6=0. Results were similar stratifying by 
age/sex, and excluding pre-morbidly disabled patients. Using a weighted ordinal 
approach, estimates of thrombectomy impact were more favourable than estimates 
with dichotomous approaches, 5-year cost reductions being 29% higher than with 
0-2/3-6, and over three-fold higher than with 0-1/2-6 dichotomy.
INTERPRETATION: Our findings favour weighting the mRS in ordinal analyses for 
stroke and other neurological disorders, as state-transitions differ in clinical 
prognosis, quality-of-life, and costs. These weights could also be used for 
prognostication and cost-effectiveness analyses.
FUNDING: Wellcome Trust, Wolfson Foundation, NIHR Oxford Biomedical Research 
Centre, Rhodes Trust.

© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eclinm.2020.100415
PMCID: PMC7300241
PMID: 32577611

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Ganesh reports membership in the editorial 
boards of Neurology, Neurology: Clinical Practice, and Stroke; speaker honoraria 
from NHS Health Education England and The Meritas Seminar Series, Oxford; 
consulting fees from MD Analytics, MyMedicalPanel, Adkins Research Group, and 
Genome BC; research support from The Rhodes Trust and Wellcome Trust; and 
stock/stock options from SnapDx, TheRounds.ca, and Advanced Health Analytics 
(AHA Health Ltd). Dr. Luengo-Fernandez has nothing to disclose. Dr. Pendlebury 
has nothing to disclose. Prof. Rothwell has nothing to disclose.


782. Dig Dis Sci. 2021 May;66(5):1572-1579. doi: 10.1007/s10620-020-06412-1. Epub
 2020 Jun 23.

Wide Area Transepithelial Sampling with Computer-Assisted Analysis (WATS(3D)) Is 
Cost-Effective in Barrett's Esophagus Screening.

Singer ME(1), Smith MS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population and Quantitative Health Sciences, School of 
Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mount Sinai West and Mount Sinai 
Morningside Hospitals, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, Ambulatory Care 
Center, 13th Floor, 440 W 114th St., New York, NY, 10025, USA. 
michael.smith1@mountsinai.org.

BACKGROUND: Wide area transepithelial sampling with three-dimensional 
computer-assisted analysis (WATS3D) is an adjunct to the standard random 
4-quadrant forceps biopsies (FB, "Seattle protocol") that significantly 
increases the detection of Barrett's esophagus (BE) and associated neoplasia in 
patients undergoing screening or surveillance.
AIMS: To examine the cost-effectiveness of adding WATS3D to the Seattle protocol 
in screening patients for BE.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was used to compare the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of two alternative BE screening strategies in chronic 
gastroesophageal reflux disease patients: FB with and without WATS3D. The 
reference case was a 60-year-old white male with gastroesophageal reflux disease 
(GERD). Effectiveness was measured by the number needed to screen to avert one 
cancer and one cancer-related death, and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). 
Cost was measured in 2019 US$, and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) was measured in $/QALY using thresholds for cost-effectiveness of 
$100,000/QALY and $150,000/QALY. Cost was measured in 2019 US$. Cost and QALYs 
were discounted at 3% per year.
RESULTS: Between 320 and 337 people would need to be screened with WATS3D in 
addition to FB to avert one additional cancer, and 328-367 people to avert one 
cancer-related death. Screening with WATS3D costs an additional $1219 and 
produced an additional 0.017 QALYs, for an ICER of $71,395/QALY. All one-way 
sensitivity analyses resulted in ICERs under $84,000/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening for BE in 60-year-old white male GERD patients is more 
cost-effective when WATS3D is used adjunctively to the Seattle protocol than 
with the Seattle protocol alone.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-020-06412-1
PMCID: PMC8053177
PMID: 32578042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Drs. Singer and Smith have served as consultants 
for the sponsor. Dr. Smith has received research support for other studies.


783. Food Funct. 2020 Jul 22;11(7):6170-6185. doi: 10.1039/d0fo00718h.

Combination of apple peel and blueberry extracts synergistically induced 
lifespan extension via DAF-16 in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Song B(1), Wang H(1), Xia W(1), Zheng B(2), Li T(3), Liu RH(3).

Author information:
(1)Overseas Expertise Introduction Center for Discipline Innovation of Food 
Nutrition and Human Health (111 Center), School of Food Sciences and 
Engineering, South China University of Technology, Guangzhou 510641, China. 
febzheng@scut.edu.cn.
(2)Overseas Expertise Introduction Center for Discipline Innovation of Food 
Nutrition and Human Health (111 Center), School of Food Sciences and 
Engineering, South China University of Technology, Guangzhou 510641, China. 
febzheng@scut.edu.cn and Guangdong ERA Food & Life Health Research Institute, 
Guangzhou, 510670, China.
(3)Department of Food Science, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA. 
rl23@cornell.edu.

Increased consumption of fruit and vegetables is associated with a reduced risk 
of age-related functional decline and chronic diseases, which is primarily 
attributed to their phytochemicals. Apples and blueberries are rich in 
phytochemicals with a wide range of biological activities and health benefits. 
The objective of this study was to determine whether the combination of apple 
peel extracts (APE) and blueberry extracts (BE) had synergistic effects in 
promoting lifespan in Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans), and to explore the 
underlying mechanisms of action. The results showed that the lifespan of C. 
elegans treated with APE plus BE was increased by 31.4%, which is significantly 
more than with APE or BE alone, and extended the health span of animals, 
including improving motility and enhancing resistance to heat stress and UV-B 
radiation in C. elegans. Meanwhile, treatment with APE plus BE could regulate 
the expression of anti-aging related genes, and promote the migration of DAF-16 
into the nucleus. In addition, administration with APE plus BE eradicated the 
extension of the lifespan of mutants, and inhibited the expression of the daf-16 
downstream gene. In conclusion, the combination of APE and BE could 
synergistically promote the lifespan via the insulin signaling pathway and 
DAF-16 in C. elegans.

DOI: 10.1039/d0fo00718h
PMID: 32578648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. J Matern Fetal Neonatal Med. 2022 Jun;35(11):2156-2161. doi: 
10.1080/14767058.2020.1783230. Epub 2020 Jun 24.

Risk factors for uterine incision extension during cesarean delivery.

Karavani G(1), Chill HH(1), Reuveni-Salzman A(1), Guedalia J(2), Ben 
Menahem-Zidon O(3), Cohen N(4), Elchalal U(1), Shveiky D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical 
Center, Jerusalem, Israel.
(2)The Mina and Everard Goodman Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, 
Ramat-Gan, Israel.
(3)The Hadassah Human Embryonic Stem Cell Research Center, Goldyne Savad 
Institute of Gene Therapy, Hadassah - Hebrew University Hospital, Jerusalem, 
Israel.
(4)Faculty of Medicine, Hebrew University - Hadassah Medical Center, Jerusalem, 
Israel.

BACKGROUND: Unintentional extension of uterine incision is a known complication 
during cesarean delivery estimated to occur in 4-8% of cesarean deliveries. The 
aim of this study was to examine risk factors associated with unintentional 
uterine incision extension and to assess which of them are independent risk 
factors for this condition.
STUDY DESIGN: We conducted a retrospective cohort study at a large public 
university tertiary referral center between 2003 and 2017. Included were women 
who underwent cesarean delivery during this time period. Demographic, medical, 
obstetrical and surgical data were collected. The primary outcome was the 
presence of uterine incision extension during cesarean delivery. Secondary 
outcomes included detection of risk factors associated with uterine incision 
extension. A multivariate analysis was additionally performed to identify 
general and labor related risk factors for unintentional extension of uterine 
incision among patients that underwent cesarean delivery during second stage of 
labor.
RESULTS: During the study period, 25,879 cesarean deliveries performed in our 
medical center were assessed. Out of them, 731 (2.8%) cases of unintended 
uterine incision extension were identified. Women in this group had high rates 
of full cervical dilatation and increased maternal hemorrhage. Assessment of 
incision extension direction revealed that two-thirds of extensions were 
lateral, mostly unilateral. Median size of the extension was 
2.7 ± 1.2 cm.Independent parameters associated with unintended uterine incision 
extension included nulliparity, vertex presentation, epidural anesthesia and 
cesarean section indication. Further analysis including cesarean deliveries 
performed during the second stage of labor revealed 397 (15.3%) cesarean 
deliveries in which incision extension was noted and 2205 (84.7%) cesarean 
deliveries without incision extension. Following multivariate analysis performed 
in women who underwent cesarean delivery during second stage of labor, two 
independent parameters associated with unintended uterine incision extension 
remained significant - past cesarean delivery and failed vacuum attempt.
CONCLUSIONS: Vacuum extraction attempt and previous cesarean delivery are 
independent risk factors for uterine incision extension in women undergoing 
cesarean delivery during the second stage of labor. We also showed the majority 
of these extensions to be lateral.

DOI: 10.1080/14767058.2020.1783230
PMID: 32580653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. BMC Health Serv Res. 2020 Jun 24;20(1):581. doi: 10.1186/s12913-020-05445-6.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of atezolizumab in advanced triple-negative breast 
cancer.

Phua LC(1), Lee SC(2), Ng K(3), Abdul Aziz MI(4).

Author information:
(1)Agency for Care Effectiveness, Ministry of Health, Singapore, 14 College 
Road, Singapore, 169853, Singapore.
(2)Department of Haematology-Oncology, National University Cancer Institute, 
Singapore, Singapore.
(3)Agency for Care Effectiveness, Ministry of Health, Singapore, 14 College 
Road, Singapore, 169853, Singapore. ng_kwong_hoe@moh.gov.sg.
(4)Agency for Care Effectiveness, Ministry of Health, Singapore, 14 College 
Road, Singapore, 169853, Singapore. mohamed_ismail_abdul_aziz@moh.gov.sg.

BACKGROUND: The IMpassion130 trial demonstrated that adding atezolizumab to 
nanoparticle albumin-bound (nab)-paclitaxel improved the survival of patients 
with untreated, advanced, programmed death ligand 1 (PDL1)-positive 
triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). In view of the high cost of immunotherapy, 
it is important to examine its value with respect to both benefits and costs. In 
this study, the cost-effectiveness of atezolizumab/nab-paclitaxel combination 
therapy relative to nab-paclitaxel monotherapy was evaluated for the first-line 
treatment of advanced, PDL1-positive TNBC, from a healthcare system perspective.
METHODS: A three-state partitioned-survival model was developed to compare the 
clinical and economic outcomes of treatment with atezolizumab/nab-paclitaxel 
combination therapy with nab-paclitaxel monotherapy in patients with advanced 
TNBC. Clinical data were obtained from the IMpassion130 trial and extrapolated 
to 5 years. Health state utilities were retrieved from the literature, while 
direct costs (in Singapore dollars, S$) were sourced from public healthcare 
institutions in Singapore. The primary outcomes of the model were life years 
(LYs), quality-adjusted LYs (QALYs), costs and incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios (ICERs). One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses and scenario 
analyses were conducted to explore the impact of specific assumptions and 
uncertainties.
RESULTS: Adding atezolizumab to nab-paclitaxel resulted in an additional 0.361 
QALYs (0.636 LYs) at an ICER of S$324,550 per QALY gained. The ICER remained 
high at S$67,092 per QALY even when atezolizumab was priced zero. One-way 
sensitivity analysis showed that the ICER was most sensitive to variations in 
the cost of atezolizumab and the time horizon. Scenario analyses confirmed that 
the ICERs remained high even under extremely favourable assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the exceedingly high ICER, adding atezolizumab to 
nab-paclitaxel was unlikely to represent good value for money for the treatment 
of advanced PDL1-positive TNBC. Our findings will be useful in informing funding 
policy decisions alongside other considerations such as comparative 
effectiveness, unmet need and budget impact.

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-020-05445-6
PMCID: PMC7315527
PMID: 32580722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


786. Ann Clin Lab Sci. 2020 May;50(3):404-407.

Outdate Reduction and Cost Savings with Rapid Testing for Seven-Day Platelet 
Storage.

Mintz PD(1), Sanders JR(2).

Author information:
(1)Verax Biomedical Inc., Marlborough, MA, USA pmintz@veraxbiomedical.com.
(2)Verax Biomedical Inc., Marlborough, MA, USA.

Platelets for transfusion in the US are stored at room temperature which is 
associated with a risk of bacterial transmission and subsequent sepsis. A recent 
FDA Final Guidance has been issued with options to mitigate this risk while 
maintaining or enhancing platelet availability.Storage had been limited to five 
days for many years due to the risk of bacterial growth. The short shelf-life 
has resulted in a national outdate rate of approximately 16%. FDA has recently 
cleared two devices as "safety measures" the use of which now allows seven-day 
platelet storage in bags cleared for this option. The Platelet PGD Test (Verax 
Biomedical, Marlborough, MA) is one such device and the other is the bioMérieux 
BacT/Alert Microbial Detection System (Durham, NC). These "safety measure" 
options are included in the Final Guidance.In 2018 and 2019, we conducted a 
survey of 16 blood collection centers and 66 hospitals that use the PGD Test to 
extend platelet dating to seven days to ascertain how this has resulted in 
reduced outdating and thereby saved costs. The surveyed institutions were 
collectively responsible for 21-22% of the annual volume of platelet 
transfusions in the US.The blood collection centers reported that extension of 
platelet storage to seven days resulted in a mean outdate reduction of 69% 
(median 67%, range 23%-92%) and mean cost savings of $415,000 (median $300,000, 
range $150,000-$900,000). The hospitals reported that extension of platelet 
storage to seven days resulted in a mean outdate reduction of 74% (median 80%, 
range 17%-100%) and mean cost savings of $176,803 (median $150,000, range 
$30,000-$1,200,000). Hospitals saved 24,080 platelet doses annually and blood 
centers saved 18,700 doses annually. From these institutions alone, this 
represents a savings of more than 2% of platelet transfusions in the 
US.Extending platelet shelf-life to seven days with the PGD Test significantly 
reduced outdating of this valuable resource, increased product availability in 
accord with FDA Final Guidance recommendations, and saved more money than 
bacterial testing costs in the surveyed institutions.Results have been presented 
in part at the Association of Clinical Scientists Annual Meeting, Hershey, PA 
May 2019.

© 2020 by the Association of Clinical Scientists, Inc.

PMID: 32581035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Drug Ther Bull. 2020 Sep;58(9):132. doi: 10.1136/dtb.2020.000041. Epub 2020
Jun  24.

Does deprescribing in older people improve outcomes?

[No authors listed]

Review of: Shrestha S, Poudel A, Steadman K, et al Outcomes of deprescribing 
interventions in older patients with life-limiting illness and limited life 
expectancy: a systematic review. Br J Clin Pharmacol 2019; doi: 
10.1111/bcp.14113 [Epub ahead of print 4 September 2019].

© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2020. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/dtb.2020.000041
PMID: 32581067


788. J Virol. 2020 Aug 17;94(17):e01024-20. doi: 10.1128/JVI.01024-20. Print 2020
Aug  17.

A Conserved Amino Acid in the C Terminus of Human Papillomavirus E7 Mediates 
Binding to PTPN14 and Repression of Epithelial Differentiation.

Hatterschide J(1), Brantly AC(1), Grace M(2), Munger K(2), White EA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery, University of 
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Department of Developmental, Molecular and Chemical Biology, Tufts University 
School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Department of Otorhinolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery, University of 
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA 
eawhite@pennmedicine.upenn.edu.

The human papillomavirus (HPV) E7 oncoprotein is a primary driver of 
HPV-mediated carcinogenesis. The E7 proteins from diverse HPVs bind to the host 
cellular nonreceptor protein tyrosine phosphatase type 14 (PTPN14) and direct it 
for degradation through the activity of the E7-associated host E3 ubiquitin 
ligase UBR4. Here, we show that a highly conserved arginine residue in the 
C-terminal domain of diverse HPV E7 mediates the interaction with PTPN14. We 
found that disruption of PTPN14 binding through mutation of the C-terminal 
arginine did not impact the ability of several high-risk HPV E7 proteins to bind 
and degrade the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor or activate E2F target gene 
expression. HPVs infect human keratinocytes, and we previously reported that 
both PTPN14 degradation by HPV16 E7 and PTPN14 CRISPR knockout repress 
keratinocyte differentiation-related genes. Now, we have found that blocking 
PTPN14 binding through mutation of the conserved C-terminal arginine rendered 
both HPV16 and HPV18 E7 unable to repress differentiation-related gene 
expression. We then confirmed that the HPV18 E7 variant that could not bind 
PTPN14 was also impaired in repressing differentiation when expressed from the 
complete HPV18 genome. Finally, we found that the ability of HPV18 E7 to extend 
the life span of primary human keratinocytes required PTPN14 binding. 
CRISPR/Cas9 knockout of PTPN14 rescued keratinocyte life span extension in the 
presence of the PTPN14 binding-deficient HPV18 E7 variant. These results support 
the model that PTPN14 degradation by high-risk HPV E7 leads to repression of 
differentiation and contributes to its carcinogenic activity.IMPORTANCE The E7 
oncoprotein is a primary driver of HPV-mediated carcinogenesis. HPV E7 binds the 
putative tumor suppressor PTPN14 and targets it for degradation using the 
ubiquitin ligase UBR4. PTPN14 binds to a C-terminal arginine highly conserved in 
diverse HPV E7. Our previous efforts to understand how PTPN14 degradation 
contributes to the carcinogenic activity of high-risk HPV E7 used variants of E7 
unable to bind to UBR4. Now, by directly manipulating E7 binding to PTPN14 and 
using a PTPN14 knockout rescue experiment, we demonstrate that the degradation 
of PTPN14 is required for high-risk HPV18 E7 to extend keratinocyte life span. 
Our data show that PTPN14 binding by HPV16 E7 and HPV18 E7 represses 
keratinocyte differentiation. HPV-positive cancers are frequently poorly 
differentiated, and the HPV life cycle depends upon keratinocyte 
differentiation. The finding that PTPN14 binding by HPV E7 impairs 
differentiation has significant implications for HPV-mediated carcinogenesis and 
the HPV life cycle.

Copyright © 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01024-20
PMCID: PMC7431784
PMID: 32581101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. J Curr Glaucoma Pract. 2020 Jan-Apr;14(1):37-42. doi: 
10.5005/jp-journals-10078-1270.

Intrapalpebral Extending Dysesthetic Bleb Revision with Fibrin Glue.

Holmes DP(1), Manning DK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital, East 
Melbourne, Australia.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Hunter Cataract and Eye Centre, Charlestown, 
Australia.

AIM: This pilot study evaluates the safety and efficacy of a novel surgical 
technique using fibrin glue to treat bleb dysesthesia post-trabeculectomy due to 
intrapalpebral extension.
BACKGROUND: Trabeculectomy remains the gold standard for control of intraocular 
pressure (IOP) in refractory glaucoma. Bleb dysesthesia following 
antifibrotic-enhanced trabeculectomy is common, resulting in a significant 
decrease in quality of life. Symptoms include pain, foreign body sensation, and 
excessive tearing. Treatments include lubrication, topical nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), bandage contact lens, bleb needling, 
compression sutures, Nd:YAG laser treatments, autologous blood injection, and 
cryopexy. These procedures can be time-consuming, risk bleb function, and may be 
ineffective at symptom control; thus, a novel technique is required.
TECHNIQUE: This is a retrospective case series of eyes undergoing bleb 
dissection with scleral cutdown and conjunctival closure with ARTISS fibrin 
tissue glue. Reported cases have been followed up for 6 months. Outcomes 
assessed include complications, IOP, medication usage, subjective pain score, 
visual field, and cup-to-disk (C:D) ratio.
CONCLUSION: This small pilot series demonstrated that patients suffering from 
bleb dysesthesia due to intrapalpebral bleb extension can be successfully 
treated with a novel surgical approach combining conjunctival dissection to 
sclera with fibrin tissue glue closure. There was no significant effect on bleb 
function and no contribution to glaucoma progression over a 6-month period. A 
significant reduction in patient discomfort with no new surgical complications 
was noted.
CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: This demonstrates a safe and effective novel surgical 
approach to treat patients with this condition. The technique is easily learnt 
and can be employed in an outpatient setting. The technique is readily accepted 
by patients in group who are often reticent to undergo further intervention. 
Most importantly, it does not compromise bleb function or destabilize glaucoma 
control.
HOW TO CITE THIS ARTICLE: Holmes DP, Manning DK. Intrapalpebral Extending 
Dysesthetic Bleb Revision with Fibrin Glue. J Curr Glaucoma Pract 
2020;14(1):37-42.

Copyright © 2020; Jaypee Brothers Medical Publishers (P) Ltd.

DOI: 10.5005/jp-journals-10078-1270
PMCID: PMC7302612
PMID: 32581467

Conflict of interest statement: Source of support: Nil Conflict of interest: 
None


790. Front Hum Neurosci. 2020 Jun 9;14:173. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2020.00173. 
eCollection 2020.

Independent Low-Rank Matrix Analysis-Based Automatic Artifact Reduction 
Technique Applied to Three BCI Paradigms.

Kanoga S(1), Hoshino T(1)(2), Asoh H(1).

Author information:
(1)Artificial Intelligence Research Center, Department of Information Technology 
and Human Factors, National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and 
Technology (AIST), Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Media and Governance, Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan.

Electroencephalogram (EEG)-based brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) can 
potentially enable people to non-invasively and directly communicate with others 
using brain activities. Artifacts generated from body activities (e.g., 
eyeblinks and teeth clenches) often contaminate EEGs and make EEG-based 
classification/identification hard. Although independent component analysis 
(ICA) is the gold-standard technique for attenuating the effects of such 
contamination, the estimated independent components are still mixed with 
artifactual and neuronal information because ICA relies only on the independence 
assumption. The same problem occurs when using independent vector analysis 
(IVA), an extended ICA method. To solve this problem, we designed an independent 
low-rank matrix analysis (ILRMA)-based automatic artifact reduction technique 
that clearly models sources from observations under the independence assumption 
and a low-rank nature in the frequency domain. For automatic artifact reduction, 
we combined the signal separation technique with an independent component 
classifier for EEGs named ICLabel. To assess the comparative efficiency of the 
proposed method, the discriminabilities of artifact-reduced EEGs using ICA, IVA, 
and ILRMA were determined using an open-access EEG dataset named OpenBMI, which 
contains EEG data obtained through three BCI paradigms [motor-imagery (MI), 
event-related potential (ERP), and steady-state visual evoked potential 
(SSVEP)]. BCI performances were obtained using these three paradigms after 
applying artifact reduction techniques, and the results suggested that our 
proposed method has the potential to achieve higher discriminability than ICA 
and IVA for BCIs. In addition, artifact reduction using the ILRMA approach 
clearly improved (by over 70%) the averaged BCI performances using 
artifact-reduced data sufficiently for most needs of the BCI community. The 
extension of ICA families to supervised separation that leaves the 
discriminative ability would further improve the usability of BCIs for real-life 
environments in which artifacts frequently contaminate EEGs.

Copyright © 2020 Kanoga, Hoshino and Asoh.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2020.00173
PMCID: PMC7296171
PMID: 32581739


791. Front Immunol. 2020 Jun 3;11:1048. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.01048.
eCollection  2020.

Vaccines Against Antimicrobial Resistance.

Rosini R(1), Nicchi S(1)(2), Pizza M(1), Rappuoli R(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)GSK, Siena, Italy.
(2)Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology (FaBiT), University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy.
(3)vAMRes Lab, Toscana Life Sciences, Siena, Italy.
(4)Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom.

Erratum in
    Front Immunol. 2020 Jul 21;11:1578.

In the last century, life expectancy has increased considerably, thanks to the 
introduction of antibiotics, hygiene and vaccines that have contributed to the 
cure and prevention of many infectious diseases. The era of antimicrobial 
therapy started in the nineteenth century with the identification of chemical 
compounds with antimicrobial properties. However, immediately after the 
introduction of these novel drugs, microorganisms started to become resistant 
through different strategies. Although resistance mechanisms were already 
present before antibiotic introduction, their large-scale use and mis-use have 
increased the number of resistant microorganisms. Rapid spreading of mobile 
elements by horizontal gene transfer such as plasmids and integrative 
conjugative elements (ICE) carrying multiple resistance genes has dramatically 
increased the worldwide prevalence of relevant multi drug-resistant human 
pathogens such as Staphylococcus aureus, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, and 
Enterobacteriaceae. Today, antimicrobial resistance (AMR) remains one of the 
major global concerns to be addressed and only global efforts could help in 
finding a solution. In terms of magnitude the economic impact of AMR is 
estimated to be comparable to that of climate global change in 2030. Although 
antibiotics continue to be essential to treat such infections, non-antibiotic 
therapies will play an important role in limiting the increase of antibiotic 
resistant microorganisms. Among non-antibiotic strategies, vaccines and 
therapeutic monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) play a strategic role. In this review, 
we will summarize the evolution and the mechanisms of antibiotic resistance, and 
the impact of AMR on life expectancy and economics.

Copyright © 2020 Rosini, Nicchi, Pizza and Rappuoli.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.01048
PMCID: PMC7283535
PMID: 32582169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Int J Part Ther. 2020 Spring;6(4):1-10. doi: 10.14338/IJPT-19-00076.1. Epub
2020  Apr 22.

Predicted Secondary Malignancies following Proton versus Photon Radiation for 
Oropharyngeal Cancers.

Jain V(1), Irmen P(1), O'Reilly S(1), Vogel JH(2), Lin L(3), Lin A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Perelman School of Medicine at the 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology and Molecular Radiation Sciences, John 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Emory University School of Medicine, 
Atlanta, GA, USA.

PURPOSE: There has been a recent epidemic of human papillomavirus (HPV)-positive 
oropharyngeal cancer, accounting for 70% to 80% of diagnosed cases. These 
patients have an overall favorable prognosis and are typically treated with a 
combination of surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation. Because these patients live 
longer, they are at risk of secondary malignant neoplasms (SMNs) associated with 
radiation therapy. Therefore, we assessed the predicted risk of SMNs after 
adjuvant radiation therapy with intensity-modulated proton therapy (IMPT) 
compared with intensity modulated photon radiation therapy (IMRT) in patients 
with HPV- positive oropharyngeal cancers after complete resection.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirteen consecutive patients with HPV-positive 
oropharyngeal cancers treated with postoperative radiation alone were selected. 
All patients were treated with pencil beam scanning IMPT to a total dose of 60 
Gy in 2 Gy fractions. The IMRT plans were generated for clinical backup and were 
used for comparative purposes. The SMN risk was calculated based on an organ 
equivalent dose model for the linear-exponential dose-response curve.
RESULTS: Median age of the patient cohort was 63 years (range, 47-73 years). 
There was no difference in target coverage between IMPT and IMRT plans. We noted 
significant reductions in mean mandible, contralateral parotid, lung and skin 
organ equivalent doses with IMPT compared with IMRT plans (P < .001). 
Additionally, a significant decrease in the risk of SMNs with IMPT was observed 
for all the evaluated organs. Per our analysis, for patients with oropharyngeal 
cancers diagnosed at a national median age of 54 years with an average life 
expectancy of 27 years (per national Social Security data), 4 excess SMNs per 
100 patients could be avoided by treating them with IMPT versus IMRT.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with IMPT can achieve comparable target dose coverage 
while significantly reducing the dose to healthy organs, which can lead to fewer 
predicted SMNs compared with IMRT.

©Copyright 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.14338/IJPT-19-00076.1
PMCID: PMC7302732
PMID: 32582814

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors have no 
conflicts of interest to disclose.


793. Cardiovasc Res. 2020 Jul 1;116(8):e102. doi: 10.1093/cvr/cvaa130.

Inappropriate evaluation of methodology and biases by P. Morfeld and T.C. Erren.

Lelieveld J(1)(2), Pozzer A(1), Pöschl U(1), Fnais M(3), Haines A(4), Münzel 
T(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Chemistry, Mainz, Germany.
(2)The Cyprus Institute, Nicosia, Cyprus.
(3)King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(4)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(5)University Medical Center of the Johannes Gutenberg University, Mainz, 
Germany.
(6)German Center for Cardiovascular Research, Mainz, Germany.

Comment on
    Cardiovasc Res. 2020 Sep 1;116(11):1910-1917.
    Cardiovasc Res. 2020 Jul 1;116(8):e101.

DOI: 10.1093/cvr/cvaa130
PMID: 32582929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Aktuelle Urol. 2020 Aug;51(4):363-370. doi: 10.1055/a-1171-1213. Epub 2020
Jun  24.

[The impact of radical cystectomy on health-related quality of life and 
potential for optimisation].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Rudolph J(1), Martini T(1), Wezel F(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinikum Ulm, Klinik für Urologie und Kinderurologie, Ulm.

Radical cystectomy may have a major impact on the lives of affected patients. 
Older patients often have a reduced life expectancy after radical cystectomy. 
Therefore, aspects of health-related quality of life (HRQOL) have to be balanced 
against a solely tumour-directed therapy. In this narrative review, factors 
influencing the HRQOL of affected patients were identified and discussed by 
selective literature search.Besides strategies to minimise perioperative 
morbidity, these include a patient-oriented and individualised treatment plan 
taking into account factors such as age, comorbidities, choice of urinary 
diversion and age-specific conditions, in particular frailty. Patient-reported 
outcome measures (PROMs) are crucial instruments to assess HRQOL outcomes and 
should be further implemented into routine clinical use.

Publisher: Die radikale Zystektomie stellt einen wesentlichen Einschnitt in das 
Leben betroffener Patienten dar. Insbesondere ältere Patienten weisen nach 
radikaler Zystektomie oft eine begrenzte Lebenserwartung auf. Daher treten neben 
der reinen Tumortherapie insbesondere Aspekte der Lebensqualität in den 
Vordergrund.In dieser narrativen Übersichtsarbeit wurden durch selektive 
Literaturrecherche Faktoren identifiziert, die einen Einfluss auf die 
Lebensqualität der betroffenen Patienten haben können. Dazu gehören neben 
Strategien zur Minimierung der perioperativen Morbidität eine optimale, 
individualisierte Therapieplanung. Diese sollte neben Faktoren wie Alter, 
Komorbiditäten, Wahl der Harnableitung auch altersspezifische, physiologische 
Gegebenheiten des Patienten wie die Gebrechlichkeit (Frailty) berücksichtigen. 
Patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) sind essenzielle Instrumente, um die 
Lebensqualität standardisiert zu erfassen und sollten im klinischen Ablauf 
weiter etabliert werden.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/a-1171-1213
PMID: 32583388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Die Autorinnen/Autoren geben an, dass kein 
Interessenkonflikt besteht.


795. Adv Mater. 2020 Aug;32(31):e1907180. doi: 10.1002/adma.201907180. Epub 2020
Jun  25.

Fiber-Reinforced Viscoelastomers Show Extraordinary Crack Resistance That 
Exceeds Metals.

Cui W(1), King DR(2)(3), Huang Y(2), Chen L(1), Sun TL(2)(4), Guo Y(1), 
Saruwatari Y(5), Hui CY(3)(6), Kurokawa T(2)(3), Gong JP(2)(3)(7).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Life Science, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, 001-0021, 
Japan.
(2)Faculty of Advanced Life Science, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, 001-0021, 
Japan.
(3)Global Station for Soft Matter, Global Institution for Collaborative Research 
and Education (GI-CoRE), Hokkaido University, Sapporo, 001-0021, Japan.
(4)South China Advanced Institute for Soft Matter Science and Technology, South 
China University of Technology, Guangzhou, 510641, China.
(5)Osaka Organic Chemical Industry Ltd., Osaka, 541-0052, Japan.
(6)Field of Theoretical & Applied Mechanics, Dept. of Mechanical & Aerospace 
Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, 14853, USA.
(7)Institute for Chemical Reaction Design and Discovery (WPI-ICReDD), Hokkaido 
University, Sapporo, 001-0021, Japan.

Soft fiber-reinforced polymers (FRPs), consisting of rubbery matrices and rigid 
fabrics, are widely utilized in industry because they possess high specific 
strength in tension while allowing flexural deformation under bending or 
twisting. Nevertheless, existing soft FRPs are relatively weak against crack 
propagation due to interfacial delamination, which substantially increases their 
risk of failure during use. In this work, a class of soft FRPs that possess high 
specific strength while simultaneously showing extraordinary crack resistance 
are developed. The strategy is to synthesize tough viscoelastic matrices from 
acrylate monomers in the presence of woven fabrics, which generates soft 
composites with a strong interface and interlocking structure. Such composites 
exhibit fracture energy, Γ, of up to 2500 kJ m-2 , exceeding the toughest 
existing materials. Experimental elucidation shows that the fracture energy 
obeys a simple relation, Γ = W · lT , where W is the volume-weighted average of 
work of extension at fracture of the two components and lT is the force transfer 
length that scales with the square root of fiber/matrix modulus ratio. Superior 
Γ is achieved through a combination of extraordinarily large lT (10-100 mm), 
resulting from the extremely high fiber/matrix modulus ratios (104 -105 ), and 
the maximized energy dissipation density, W. The elucidated quantitative 
relationship provides guidance toward the design of extremely tough soft 
composites.

© 2020 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/adma.201907180
PMID: 32583491


796. Prostate cancer screening with a PSA test: IQWiG Reports – Commission No.
S19-01  [Internet].

Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care (IQWiG).

Cologne (Germany): Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care (IQWiG); 
2020 Jun 10.
Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care: Extracts.

RESEARCH QUESTION: The objective of this investigation is to assess the benefit 
of prostate cancer screening with the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test in 
participants without suspected prostate cancer in respect of patient-relevant 
outcomes.
CONCLUSION: With regard to all-cause mortality, there was no hint of any benefit 
or harm of prostate cancer screening with the PSA test in comparison with no 
such screening. With regard to prostate cancer-specific mortality, the studies 
using a PSA cut-off value below 4 ng/mL revealed an indication of a benefit of 
prostate cancer screening with the PSA test. For the other subgroup, there was 
no hint of any benefit or harm. Since opportunistic prostate cancer screening 
with the PSA test was common in the control groups of the 2 largest studies 
using a PSA cut-off value of 4 ng/mL or higher (i.e. high contamination), it is 
doubtful whether the PSA cut-off value is the actual characteristic which 
convincingly explains the difference between subgroups. With regard to the 
outcome of diagnoses of metastatic prostate cancers, there was an indication of 
benefit. With regard to the outcomes of health-related quality of life and 
adverse events as well as the consequences of false-negative screening findings, 
there was no hint of benefit or harm, albeit based on insufficient available 
data (no data at all). Proof of harm was found for the consequences of 
overdiagnoses as well as for false-positive screening findings. Prostate cancer 
screening by PSA test causes harm to overdiagnosed men (men with prostate cancer 
which does not require treatment) as well as to men with false-positive 
screening results (men without prostate cancer). Much of screening-related harm 
arises at an early time and, in many cases, persists lifelong. Prostate cancer 
screening with the PSA test benefits some men with prostate cancer by sparing 
them the distress caused by metastatic cancer or delaying the same. However, 
this benefit arises only after several years. Even these men might experience 
early treatment-related complications which persist lifelong. It is unclear 
whether screening leads to any life extension at all in these men. Considerably 
more men experience overdiagnosis-related harm rather than benefits from 
prostate cancer screening by PSA test. All things considered, the benefits of 
prostate cancer screening with the PSA test therefore do not outweigh the 
associated harms.

© IQWiG (Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care).

PMID: 32584528


797. DNA Cell Biol. 2020 Sep;39(9):1478-1485. doi: 10.1089/dna.2020.5444. Epub
2020  Jun 23.

Klotho-HIV and Oxidative Stress: The Role of Klotho in Cardiovascular Disease 
Under HIV Infection-A Review.

Miranda Pérez AA(1), Gutiérrez Pérez ME(1), Urraza Robledo AI(2), Delgadillo 
Guzmán D(3), Ruíz Flores P(4), López Márquez FC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Immunobiology, Biomedical Research Center, Faculty of 
Medicine, Autonomous University of Coahuila, Torreon, Mexico.
(2)High Specialty Medical Unit #71, Mexican Institute of Social Security 
Torreón, Coahuila, México.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Autonomous University of 
Coahuila, Torreon, Mexico.
(4)Department of Genetics, Center for Biomedical Research Faculty of Medicine, 
Autonomous University of Coahuila, Torreon, Mexico.

Combined antiretroviral therapy has improved quality and life expectancy of 
people living with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). However, this therapy 
increases oxidative stress (OS), which in turn causes alterations in lipid and 
carbon metabolism, kidney disease, liver cirrhosis, and increased risk of 
cardiovascular disease. The Klotho gene has been implicated in cardiovascular 
risk increase. Klotho protein expression at X level decreases the risk of heart 
disease. HIV-positive people usually present low plasma levels of Klotho; thus, 
contributing to some extent to an increase in cardiovascular risk for these 
types of patients, mostly by favoring atherosclerosis. Therefore, our aim is to 
provide an overview of the effect of OS on Klotho protein and its consequent 
cardiometabolic alterations in HIV-positive patients on antiretroviral therapy.

DOI: 10.1089/dna.2020.5444
PMID: 32584609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. J Agric Food Chem. 2020 Jul 22;68(29):7591-7600. doi:
10.1021/acs.jafc.0c01813.  Epub 2020 Jul 8.

Characterization of a Novel Chitinase from Sweet Potato and Its Fungicidal 
Effect against Ceratocystis fimbriata.

Liu M(1), Gong Y(1), Sun H(2), Zhang J(1), Zhang L(3), Sun J(1), Han Y(1), Huang 
J(4), Wu Q(1), Zhang C(2), Li Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Phylogenomics and Comparative Genomics, School of 
Life Sciences, Jiangsu Normal University, Xuzhou, Jiangsu Province 221116, 
China.
(2)Jiangsu Xuzhou Sweet Potato Research Center, Xuzhou, Jiangsu Province 221131, 
China.
(3)Crop Research Institute, Shandong Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Jinan, 
Shandong Province 250100, China.
(4)The Key Laboratory of Biotechnology for Medicinal Plant of Jiangsu Province, 
Jiangsu Normal University, Xuzhou, Jiangsu Province 221116, China.

Black rot, caused by Ceratocystis fimbriata, is a destructive disease of sweet 
potatoes (Ipomoea batatas). In this study, a novel chitinase (IbChiA) was 
screened from sweet potatoes, which showed a remarkably higher expression level 
in resistant varieties than in susceptible ones after inoculation with C. 
fimbriata. Sequence analysis indicated that IbChiA belongs to family 19 class II 
extracellular chitinase with a MW of 26.3 kDa and pI of 5.96. Recombinant 
IbChiA, produced by Pichia pastoris, displayed antifungal activity and 
stability. IbChiA could restrain the mycelium extension of C. fimbriata. FDA/PI 
double staining combined with transmission electron microscopy observation 
revealed the remarkable fungicidal effect of IbChiA on the conidia of C. 
fimbriata. The disease symptoms on the surface of slices and tuberous roots of 
sweet potatoes were significantly reduced after treatment with IbChiA. These 
results indicated that IbChiA could be used as a potential biofungicide to 
replace chemical fungicides.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.0c01813
PMID: 32585101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Lancet Infect Dis. 2020 Nov;20(11):1339-1346. doi: 
10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30256-5. Epub 2020 Jun 22.

Burden of disease in Gabon caused by loiasis: a cross-sectional survey.

Veletzky L(1), Hergeth J(2), Stelzl DR(2), Mischlinger J(3), Manego RZ(4), 
Mombo-Ngoma G(4), McCall MBB(5), Adegnika AA(6), Agnandji ST(6), Metzger WG(7), 
Matsiegui PB(8), Lagler H(9), Mordmüller B(7), Budke C(10), Ramharter M(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Tropical Medicine, Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical 
Medicine & I Department of Medicine, University Medical Centre 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany; Lambaréné Medical Research Centre, 
Lambaréné, Gabon; Department of Medicine I, Division of Infectious Diseases and 
Tropical Medicine, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria; Institute of 
Tropical Medicine, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany; German Centre for 
Infection Research, Tübingen, Germany.
(2)Lambaréné Medical Research Centre, Lambaréné, Gabon.
(3)Department of Tropical Medicine, Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical 
Medicine & I Department of Medicine, University Medical Centre 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(4)Department of Tropical Medicine, Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical 
Medicine & I Department of Medicine, University Medical Centre 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany; Lambaréné Medical Research Centre, 
Lambaréné, Gabon; Institute of Tropical Medicine, University of Tübingen, 
Tübingen, Germany; German Centre for Infection Research, Tübingen, Germany.
(5)Lambaréné Medical Research Centre, Lambaréné, Gabon; Institute of Tropical 
Medicine, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany; German Centre for Infection 
Research, Tübingen, Germany; Radboud University Medical Centre, Department of 
Medical Microbiology, Nijmegen, Netherlands.
(6)Lambaréné Medical Research Centre, Lambaréné, Gabon; Institute of Tropical 
Medicine, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany; German Centre for Infection 
Research, Tübingen, Germany.
(7)Institute of Tropical Medicine, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany; 
German Centre for Infection Research, Tübingen, Germany.
(8)Ngounié Medical Research Centre, Fougamou, Gabon.
(9)Department of Medicine I, Division of Infectious Diseases and Tropical 
Medicine, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(10)Department of Veterinary Integrative Biosciences, College of Veterinary 
Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, 
USA.
(11)Department of Tropical Medicine, Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical 
Medicine & I Department of Medicine, University Medical Centre 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany; Lambaréné Medical Research Centre, 
Lambaréné, Gabon. Electronic address: ramharter@bnitm.de.

Comment in
    Lancet Infect Dis. 2020 Nov;20(11):1226-1227.

BACKGROUND: Loiasis is a highly prevalent helminth infection found in distinct 
regions of sub-Saharan Africa. The disease has been considered to be of minor 
clinical significance, but this belief is being increasingly challenged by 
recent evidence. We aimed to prospectively quantify the overall burden of 
disease caused by loiasis in an endemic region of Gabon, using 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs).
METHODS: We did a cross-sectional survey during 2017 and 2018 in rural Gabon. 
Volunteers underwent diagnostic tests for loiasis and were given a standardised 
questionnaire on symptoms. Participants reporting eye worm migration or 
harbouring Loa loa microfilariae were defined as loiasis positive. 
Morbidity-based DALYs associated with loiasis were estimated for the rural 
population of Gabon.
FINDINGS: Between Sept 1, 2017 and May 31, 2018, 1235 participants residing in 
38 villages in the Gabonese departments of Tsamba-Magotsi and Ogooué et des Lacs 
were screened. 626 (50·8%) of 1232 eligible participants had loiasis. 520 
(42·2%) of 1232 participants reported eye worm migration. 478 (93·9%) of 509 
individuals with eye worm migration also reported associated pain, and 397 
(78·6%) of 505 reported vision disturbances. After correcting for age and sex, 
loiasis was significantly associated with a variety of symptoms, including 
transient painful oedema (adjusted odds ratio 1·76 [95% CI 1·37-2·26]) and 
arthralgia (1·30 [1·01-1·69]). Application of attributable fractions of 
correlating symptoms resulted in 412·9 (95% CI 273·9-567·7) morbidity-based 
