DALYs per 100 000 people in rural Gabon.
INTERPRETATION: Loiasis, with the pathognomonic sign of eye worm migration, 
appears to not be benign, but severely impeding to affected individuals. 
Furthermore, loiasis is associated with substantial morbidity, comparable to 
that of other neglected tropical parasitic diseases. These findings call for 
reconsideration of L loa as a relevant pathogen in affected populations, with a 
need for more concerted research and control of these infections.
FUNDING: Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Economy of Austria, and the 
European Union.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30256-5
PMID: 32585133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Chest. 2020 Nov;158(5):1837-1838. doi: 10.1016/j.chest.2020.06.019. Epub
2020  Jun 22.

Age, "Life-Cycles," and the Allocation of Scarce Medical Resources.

May T(1), Aulisio MP(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine (Dr May), Washington State University, Pullman, WA.
(2)Department of Bioethics, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, OH. Electronic address: mark.aulisio@case.edu.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chest.2020.06.019
PMCID: PMC7308032
PMID: 32585146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Life Sci. 2020 Sep 1;256:118000. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2020.118000. Epub 2020
Jun  22.

Hsp90 inhibitor gedunin causes apoptosis in A549 lung cancer cells by disrupting 
Hsp90:Beclin-1:Bcl-2 interaction and downregulating autophagy.

Hasan A(1), Haque E(2), Hameed R(3), Maier PN(4), Irfan S(5), Kamil M(6), Nazir 
A(3), Mir SS(7).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Cell Biology Laboratory, Integral Information and Research Centre-4 
(IIRC-4), Department of Bioengineering, Faculty of Engineering, Integral 
University, Kursi Road, Lucknow 226026, India.
(2)Department of Biosciences, Faculty of Science, Integral University, Kursi 
Road, Lucknow 226026, India; Department of Immunology and Medical Genetics, 
University of Split, School of Medicine, Split, Croatia.
(3)Laboratory of Functional Genomics and Molecular Toxicology, Division of 
Neuroscience and Ageing Biology, CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, BS-10/1, 
Sector 10, Jankipuram Extension, Sitapur Road, Lucknow 226031, India.
(4)Molecular Cell Biology Laboratory, Integral Information and Research Centre-4 
(IIRC-4), Department of Bioengineering, Faculty of Engineering, Integral 
University, Kursi Road, Lucknow 226026, India; University of Bonn, 
Regina-Pacis-Weg 3, 53113 Bonn, Germany.
(5)Department of Biosciences, Faculty of Science, Integral University, Kursi 
Road, Lucknow 226026, India.
(6)Department of Biosciences, Faculty of Science, Integral University, Kursi 
Road, Lucknow 226026, India; Department of Microbiology, Beykoz Institute of 
Life Sciences and Biotechnology (BILSAB), Bezmialem Vakif University, Istanbul, 
Turkey.
(7)Molecular Cell Biology Laboratory, Integral Information and Research Centre-4 
(IIRC-4), Department of Bioengineering, Faculty of Engineering, Integral 
University, Kursi Road, Lucknow 226026, India. Electronic address: 
smir@iul.ac.in.

AIMS: Hsp90 is regarded as an important therapeutic target in cancer treatment. 
Client proteins of Hsp90 like Beclin-1, PI3K, and AKT, are associated with tumor 
development, poor prognosis, and resistance to cancer therapies. This study aims 
to analyze the role of Gedunin, an Hsp-90 inhibitor, in mediation of crosstalk 
between apoptosis and autophagy by targeting Beclin-1:Bcl-2 interaction, and ER 
stress.
MAIN METHODS: A549 cells were treated with different concentrations of gedunin, 
and inhibitory rate was evaluated by MTT assay. Effect of gedunin on generation 
of reactive oxygen species, mitochondrial membrane potential, and chromatin 
condensation was studied by staining methods like DCFH-DA, MitoTracker, and 
DAPI. Expression of EGFR, PIK3CA, AKT, marker genes for apoptosis and autophagy 
were studied using semi-quantitative RT-PCR. Interaction study of 
Hsp90:Beclin-1:Bcl-2 was done by immunoprecipitation analysis. Protein 
expression of autophagy and apoptosis markers along with Grp78, Hsp70, and Hsp90 
was analyzed by immunoblotting.
KEY FINDINGS: Gedunin exerts cytotoxic effects, causes increase in ROS 
generation, downregulates mitochondrial membrane potential and induces loss in 
DNA integrity. mRNA expression analysis revealed that gedunin sensitized A549 
cells towards apoptosis by downregulating EGFR, PIK3CA, AKT, and autophagy. 
Gedunin also inhibited interaction between Hsp90:Beclin-1:Bcl-2, leading to 
downregulation of autophagy (Beclin-1, Atg5-12 complex, and LC3) and 
antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2, which may result in ER stress-induced apoptosis. 
Moreover, Hsp90 inhibition by gedunin did not cause upregulation of Hsp70 
expression.
SIGNIFICANCE: Gedunin induces apoptosis in lung cancer cells by disrupting 
Hsp90:Beclin-1:Bcl-2 interaction and autophagy downregulation, thus making 
gedunin a good drug lead for targeting lung cancer.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2020.118000
PMID: 32585246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.


802. Can J Cardiol. 2020 Sep;36(9):1458-1466. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2020.06.013.
Epub  2020 Jun 22.

Cardiovascular Risk Factors in Patients With Congenital Heart Disease.

Bigras JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Cardiology, Department of Pediatrics, Sainte-Justine 
UHC, University of Montreal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Electronic address: 
Jean-Luc.Bigras.hsj@ssss.gouv.qc.ca.

Survival of infants born with congenital heart disease (CHD) is improving 
tremendously and although most of them have mild lesions, others might be 
considered as only being palliated and undergo many medical or surgical 
interventions. Patients with CHD will be exposed to the same problematic of the 
modern lifestyle such as increased prevalence of obesity, decreased physical 
activities, and exposure to smoking, which leads to acquired cardiovascular 
disease. We specifically investigated specific cardiovascular risk factors such 
as: malnutrition, smoking exposure, hypertension, integrity of the coronary and 
systemic arteries, thromboembolism, ventricular dysfunction, inflammation, and 
arrhythmias. Patients with CHD are often submitted to extremes of nutrition: as 
infants, they often do not meet their metabolic requirements, and as they grow 
older, they tend to exceed them, as seen in the general population. Some heart 
lesions are more prone to systemic hypertension throughout life, such as 
coarctation of the aorta, but surprisingly other lesions are also prone to 
hypertension such as Ebstein anomaly, pulmonary valve stenosis, or 
regurgitation. Early coronary artery atherosclerosis is also a concern in these 
patients. Lesions typically at risk are localized in zones of increased 
turbulence or high pressure or having had previous surgical manipulations. 
Thromboembolism is also frequent and mostly associated with arrhythmias, heart 
failure, multiple catheterizations, and specific surgical repairs. Finally, the 
complexity of heart lesions or abnormal hemodynamics lead to inflammation, heart 
failure, or arrhythmias. These complex interactions of risk factors ultimately 
lead to a decreased life expectancy.

Crown Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cjca.2020.06.013
PMID: 32585329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2020 Sep-Oct;90:104157. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2020.104157. Epub 2020 Jun 18.

Healthy life-expectancy and multimorbidity among older adults: Do inequality and 
poverty matter?

Guimarães RM(1), Andrade FCD(2).

Author information:
(1)Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Avenida Brasil, 4365, Manguinhos, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, 
21041-360, Brazil; University of Illinois at Urban-Champaign, 1010W Nevada 
Street, Office 2107, Urbana, IL, 61801, USA. Electronic address: 
raphael.guimaraes@fiocruz.br.
(2)University of Illinois at Urban-Champaign, 1010W Nevada Street, Office 2107, 
Urbana, IL, 61801, USA. Electronic address: fandrade@illinois.edu.

Multimorbidity among older adults increases with age. There are large 
socioeconomic differences across states in Brazil. We believe that estimates of 
healthy life expectancy differ according to poverty and income inequality 
status. The objective of the study is to describe patterns of life expectancy 
with multimorbidity with distinct levels of poverty and inequality in Brazil. We 
constructed life tables for Brazilian states and estimated the prevalence of 
multimorbidity for populations aged 60 and over, and divided the states into 
three groups according to poverty and inequality status and compare them. The 
group with high poverty and inequality lives fewer years with multimorbidity 
than the group with lower poverty and inequality. We believe this approach can 
be used to compare estimates between populations and to identify health 
inequalities within the country that require attention, optimizing resources, 
and planning interventions to improve population health, mainly through primary 
health care.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2020.104157
PMID: 32585554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that there are no conflicts of interest.


804. Int J Drug Policy. 2020 Aug;82:102811. doi: 10.1016/j.drugpo.2020.102811.
Epub  2020 Jun 22.

Eradicating hepatitis C: Are novel screening strategies for people who inject 
drugs cost-effective?

Manca F(1), Robinson E(2), Dillon JF(3), Boyd KA(4).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Health Technology Assessment (HEHTA), Institute of 
Health and Wellbeing, University of Glasgow, 1 Lilybank Gardens, Glasgow G12 
8RZ, UK. Electronic address: francesco.manca@glasgow.ac.uk.
(2)School of Medicine, University of Dundee, Ninewells hospital and Medical 
school, DD1 9SY Dundee, UK. Electronic address: e.robinson7@nhs.net.
(3)School of Medicine, University of Dundee, Ninewells hospital and Medical 
school, DD1 9SY Dundee, UK. Electronic address: j.dillon@nhs.net.
(4)Health Economics and Health Technology Assessment (HEHTA), Institute of 
Health and Wellbeing, University of Glasgow, 1 Lilybank Gardens, Glasgow G12 
8RZ, UK. Electronic address: Kathleen.Boyd@glasgow.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: In developed countries, people who inject drugs (PWID) have a high 
prevalence of hepatitis C virus (HCV), yet they are often under-diagnosed. The 
World Health Organization has set 2030 as a target year for HCV elimination. To 
meet this target, improving screening in convenient community settings in order 
to reach infected undiagnosed individuals is a priority. This study assesses the 
cost-effectiveness of alternative novel strategies for diagnosing HCV infection 
in PWID.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis was undertaken to compare HCV screening 
at needle exchange centres, substance misuse services and at community 
pharmacies, with the standard practice of detection during general 
practitioners' consultations. A decision tree model was developed to assess the 
incremental cost per positive diagnosis, and a Markov model explored the net 
monetary benefit (NMB) and the cost per Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) 
gained over a lifetime horizon.
RESULTS: Needle exchange services provided a 7.45-fold increase in detecting 
positive individuals and an incremental cost of £12,336 per QALY gained against 
current practice (NMB £163,827), making this the most cost-effective strategy 
over a lifetime horizon. Screening at substance misuse services and pharmacies 
was cost-effective only at a £30,000/QALY threshold. With a 24% discount to HCV 
treatment list prices, all three screening strategies become cost-effective at 
£20,000/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Targeting PWID populations with screening at needle exchange 
services is a highly cost-effective strategy for reaching undiagnosed HCV 
patients. When applying realistic discounts to list prices of drug treatments, 
all three strategies were highly cost-effective from a UK NHS perspective. All 
of these strategies have the potential to make a cost-effective contribution to 
the eradication of HCV by 2030.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drugpo.2020.102811
PMID: 32585583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.


805. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Jun 23;21(12):4460. doi: 10.3390/ijms21124460.

An Innovative Therapeutic Option for the Treatment of Skeletal Sarcomas: 
Elimination of Osteo- and Ewing's Sarcoma Cells Using Physical Gas Plasma.

Jacoby JM(1), Strakeljahn S(1), Nitsch A(1), Bekeschus S(2), Hinz P(1), Mustea 
A(3), Ekkernkamp A(1)(4), Tzvetkov MV(5), Haralambiev L(1)(4), Stope MB(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Trauma, Reconstructive Surgery and Rehabilitation Medicine, 
University Medicine Greifswald, Ferdinand-Sauerbruch-Straße, 17475 Greifswald, 
Germany.
(2)ZIK Plasmatis, Leibniz Institute for Plasma Science and Technology (INP), 
Felix-Hausdorff-Straße 2, 17489 Greifswald, Germany.
(3)Department of Gynecology and Gynecological Oncology, University Hospital 
Bonn, Venusberg-Campus 1, 53127 Bonn, Germany.
(4)Department of Trauma and Orthopaedic Surgery, BG Klinikum Unfallkrankenhaus 
Berlin Warener Straße 7, 12683 Berlin, Germany.
(5)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, University Medicine Greifswald, 17489 
Greifswald, Germany.

Osteosarcoma and Ewing's sarcoma are the most common malignant bone tumors. 
Conventional therapies such as polychemotherapy, local surgery, and radiotherapy 
improve the clinical outcome for patients. However, they are accompanied by 
acute and chronic side effects that affect the quality of life of patients, 
motivating novel research lines on therapeutic options for the treatment of 
sarcomas. Previous experimental work with physical plasma operated at body 
temperature (cold atmospheric plasma, CAP) demonstrated anti-oncogenic effects 
on different cancer cell types. This study investigated the anti-cancer effect 
of CAP on two bone sarcoma entities, osteosarcoma and Ewing's sarcoma, which 
were represented by four cell lines (U2-OS, MNNG/HOS, A673, and RD-ES). A 
time-dependent anti-proliferative effect of CAP on all cell lines was observed. 
CAP-induced alterations in cell membrane functionality were detected by 
performing a fluorescein diacetate (FDA) release assay and an ATP release assay. 
Additionally, modifications of the cell membrane and modifications in the actin 
cytoskeleton composition were examined using fluorescence microscopy monitoring 
dextran-uptake assay and G-/F-actin distribution. Furthermore, the CAP-induced 
induction of apoptosis was determined by TUNEL and active caspases assays. The 
observations suggest that a single CAP treatment of bone sarcoma cells may have 
significant anti-oncogenic effects and thus may be a promising extension to 
existing applications.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21124460
PMCID: PMC7352911
PMID: 32585948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


806. BMC Genomics. 2020 Jun 26;21(1):422. doi: 10.1186/s12864-020-06792-8.

Comparative genomics of four strains of the edible brown alga, Cladosiphon 
okamuranus.

Nishitsuji K(1), Arimoto A(2)(3), Yonashiro Y(4), Hisata K(2), Fujie M(5), 
Kawamitsu M(5), Shoguchi E(2), Satoh N(2).

Author information:
(1)Marine Genomics Unit, Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Graduate 
University, Onna, Okinawa, 904-0495, Japan. koki.nishitsuji@oist.jp.
(2)Marine Genomics Unit, Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Graduate 
University, Onna, Okinawa, 904-0495, Japan.
(3)Present address: Marine Biological Laboratory, Graduate School of Integrated 
Sciences for Life, Hiroshima University, Onomichi, Hiroshima, 722-0073, Japan.
(4)Okinawa Prefectural Fisheries Research and Extension Center, Itoman, Okinawa, 
901-0354, Japan.
(5)DNA Sequencing Section, Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Graduate 
University, Onna, Okinawa, 904-0495, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The brown alga, Cladosiphon okamuranus (Okinawa mozuku), is one of 
the most important edible seaweeds, and it is cultivated for market primarily in 
Okinawa, Japan. Four strains, denominated S, K, O, and C, with distinctively 
different morphologies, have been cultivated commercially since the early 2000s. 
We previously reported a draft genome of the S-strain. To facilitate studies of 
seaweed biology for future aquaculture, we here decoded and analyzed genomes of 
the other three strains (K, O, and C).
RESULTS: Here we improved the genome of the S-strain (ver. 2, 130 Mbp, 12,999 
genes), and decoded the K-strain (135 Mbp, 12,511 genes), the O-strain (140 Mbp, 
12,548 genes), and the C-strain (143 Mbp, 12,182 genes). Molecular phylogenies, 
using mitochondrial and nuclear genes, showed that the S-strain diverged first, 
followed by the K-strain, and most recently the C- and O-strains. Comparisons of 
genome architecture among the four strains document the frequent occurrence of 
inversions. In addition to gene acquisitions and losses, the S-, K-, O-, and 
C-strains possess 457, 344, 367, and 262 gene families unique to each strain, 
respectively. Comprehensive Blast searches showed that most genes have no 
sequence similarity to any entries in the non-redundant protein sequence 
database, although GO annotation suggested that they likely function in relation 
to molecular and biological processes and cellular components.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study compares the genomes of four strains of C. okamuranus and 
examines their phylogenetic relationships. Due to global environmental changes, 
including temperature increases, acidification, and pollution, brown algal 
aquaculture is facing critical challenges. Genomic and phylogenetic information 
reported by the present research provides useful tools for isolation of novel 
strains.

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-020-06792-8
PMCID: PMC7318753
PMID: 32586267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


807. Trials. 2020 Jun 26;21(1):574. doi: 10.1186/s13063-020-04475-z.

Randomised controlled trial comparing efficacy and safety of high versus low 
Low-Molecular Weight Heparin dosages in hospitalized patients with severe 
COVID-19 pneumonia and coagulopathy not requiring invasive mechanical 
ventilation (COVID-19 HD): a structured summary of a study protocol.

Marietta M(1), Vandelli P(2), Mighali P(2), Vicini R(2), Coluccio V(3), D'Amico 
R(2)(4); COVID-19 HD Study Group.

Collaborators: Aschieri D, Brugioni L, Clini E, Codeluppi M, Imberti D, 
Magnacavallo A, Meschiari M, Mussini C, Orlando S, Pinelli G, Pietrangelo A, 
Sarti L, Silva M.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento Oncologia ed Ematologia, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di 
Modena, Ospedale Policlinico, Modena, Italy. marco.marietta@unimore.it.
(2)Servizio Formazione, Ricerca e Innovazione, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria 
di Modena, Ospedale Policlinico, Modena, Italy.
(3)Dipartimento Oncologia ed Ematologia, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di 
Modena, Ospedale Policlinico, Modena, Italy.
(4)Cattedra di Statistica Medica, Dipartimento di Scienze Mediche e Chirurgiche 
Materno-Infantili e dell'Adulto, Università di Modena e Reggio Emilia, Modena, 
Italy.

OBJECTIVES: To assess whether high doses of Low Molecular Weight Heparin (LMWH) 
(i.e. Enoxaparin 70 IU/kg twice daily) compared to standard prophylactic dose 
(i.e., Enoxaparin 4000 IU once day), in hospitalized patients with COVID19 not 
requiring Invasive Mechanical Ventilation [IMV], are: a)more effective in 
preventing clinical worsening, defined as the occurrence of at least one of the 
following events, whichever comes first: 1.Death2.Acute Myocardial Infarction 
[AMI]3.Objectively confirmed, symptomatic arterial or venous thromboembolism 
[TE]4.Need of either: a.Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (Cpap) or 
Non-Invasive Ventilation (NIV) orb.IMV in patients who at randomisation were 
receiving standard oxygen therapy5.IMV in patients who at randomisation were 
receiving non-invasive mechanical ventilationb)Similar in terms of major 
bleeding risk TRIAL DESIGN: Multicentre, randomised controlled, superiority, 
open label, parallel group, two arms (1:1 ratio), in-hospital study.
PARTICIPANTS: Inpatients will be recruited from 7 Italian Academic and 
non-Academic Internal Medicine Units, 2 Infectious Disease Units and 1 
Respiratory Disease Unit.
INCLUSION CRITERIA (ALL REQUIRED): 1. Age > 18 and < 80 years 2. Positive 
SARS-CoV-2 diagnostic (on pharyngeal swab of deep airways material) 3. Severe 
pneumonia defined by the presence of at least one of the following criteria: 
a.Respiratory Rate ≥25 breaths /minb.Arterial oxygen saturation≤93% at rest on 
ambient airc.PaO2/FiO2 ≤300 mmHg 4. Coagulopathy, defined by the presence of at 
least one of the following criteria: a.D-dimer >4 times the upper level of 
normal reference rangeb.Sepsis-Induced Coagulopathy (SIC) score >4 5. No need of 
IMV EXCLUSION CRITERIA: 1. Age <18 and >80 years 2. IMV 3. Thrombocytopenia 
(platelet count < 80.000 mm3) 4. Coagulopathy: INR >1.5, aPTT ratio > 1.4 5. 
Impaired renal function (eGFR calculated by CKD-EPI Creatinine equation < 30 
ml/min) 6. Known hypersensitivity to enoxaparin 7. History of heparin induced 
thrombocytopenia 8. Presence of an active bleeding or a pathology susceptible of 
bleeding in presence of anticoagulation (e.g. recent haemorrhagic stroke, peptic 
ulcer, malignant cancer at high risk of haemorrhage, recent neurosurgery or 
ophthalmic surgery, vascular aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations) 9. 
Concomitant anticoagulant treatment for other indications (e.g. atrial 
fibrillation, venous thromboembolism, prosthetic heart valves) 10. Concomitant 
double antiplatelet therapy 11. Administration of therapeutic doses of LMWH, 
fondaparinux, or unfractionated heparin (UFH) for more than 72 hours before 
randomization; prophylactic doses are allowed 12. Pregnancy or breastfeeding or 
positive pregnancy test 13. Presence of other severe diseases impairing life 
expectancy (e.g. patients are not expected to survive 28 days given their 
pre-existing medical condition) 14. Lack or withdrawal of informed consent 
INTERVENTION AND COMPARATOR: Control Group (Low-Dose LMWH): patients in this 
group will be administered Enoxaparin (Inhixa®) at standard prophylactic dose 
(i.e., 4000 UI subcutaneously once day). Intervention Group (High-Dose LMWH): 
patients in this group will be administered Enoxaparin (Inhixa®) at dose of 70 
IU/kg every 12 hours, as reported in the following table. This dose is commonly 
used in Italy when a bridging strategy is required for the management of surgery 
or invasive procedures in patients taking anti-vitamin K oral anticoagulants 
Body Weight (kg)Enoxaparin dose every 12 hours 
(IU)<50200050-69400070-89600090-1108000>11010000 The treatment with Enoxaparin 
will be initiated soon after randomization (maximum allowed starting time 12h 
after randomization). The treatment will be administered every 12 hours in the 
intervention group and every 24 hours in the control group. Treatments will be 
administered in the two arms until hospital discharge or the primary outcomes 
detailed below occur.
MAIN OUTCOMES: Primary Efficacy Endpoint: Clinical worsening, defined as the 
occurrence of at least one of the following events, whichever comes first: 
1.Death2.Acute Myocardial Infarction [AMI]3.Objectively confirmed, symptomatic 
arterial or venous thromboembolism [TE]4.Need of either: a.Continuous Positive 
Airway Pressure (Cpap) or Non-Invasive Ventilation (NIV) orb.IMV in patients who 
at randomisation were in standard oxygen therapy by delivery interfaces5.Need 
for IMV, in patients who at randomisation were in Cpap or NIV Time to the 
occurrence of each of these events will be recorded. Clinical worsening will be 
analysed as a binary outcome as well as a time-to-event one. Secondary Efficacy 
Endpoints: Any of the following events occurring within the hospital stay 
1.Death2.Acute Myocardial Infarction [AMI]3.Objectively confirmed, symptomatic 
arterial or venous thromboembolism [TE]4.Need of either: a.Continuous Positive 
Airway Pressure (Cpap) or Non-Invasive Ventilation (NIV) orb.IMV in patients who 
at randomisation were in standard oxygen therapy by delivery interfaces5.Need 
for IMV in patients who at randomisation were in Cpap or NIV6.Improvement of 
laboratory parameters of disease severity, including: o D-dimer levelo Plasma 
fibrinogen levelso Mean Platelet Volumeo Lymphocyte/Neutrophil ratioo IL-6 
plasma levels MORTALITY AT 30 DAYS: Information about patients' status will be 
sought in those who are discharged before 30 days on Day 30 from randomisation. 
Time to the occurrence of each of these events will be recorded. Each of these 
events will be analysed as a binary outcome and as a time-to-event one. Primary 
safety endpoint: Major bleeding, defined as an acute clinically overt bleeding 
associated with one or more of the following: Decrease in haemoglobin of 2 g/dl 
or more;Transfusion of 2 or more units of packed red blood cells;Bleeding that 
occurs in at least one of the following critical sites [intracranial, 
intraspinal, intraocular (within the corpus of the eye; thus, a conjunctival 
bleed is not an intraocular bleed), pericardial, intra-articular, intramuscular 
with compartment syndrome, or retroperitoneal];Bleeding that is fatal (defined 
as a bleeding event that was the primary cause of death or contributed directly 
to death);Bleeding that necessitates surgical intervention Time to the 
occurrence of each of these events will be recorded. Each of these events will 
be analysed as a binary outcome and as a time-to-event one. Secondary safety 
endpoint: Clinically Relevant non-major bleeding, defined as an acute clinically 
overt bleeding that does not meet the criteria for major and consists of: 1.Any 
bleeding compromising hemodynamic2.Spontaneous hematoma larger than 25 cm2, or 
100 cm2 if there was a traumatic cause3.Intramuscular hematoma documented by 
ultrasonography4.Epistaxis or gingival bleeding requiring tamponade or other 
medical intervention5.Bleeding from venipuncture for >5 minutes6.Haematuria that 
was macroscopic and was spontaneous or lasted for more than 24 hours after 
invasive procedures7.Haemoptysis, hematemesis or spontaneous rectal bleeding 
requiring endoscopy or other medical intervention8.Any other bleeding requiring 
temporary cessation of a study drug. Time to the occurrence of each of these 
events will be recorded. Each of these events will be analysed as a binary 
outcome and as a time-to-event one.
RANDOMISATION: Randomisation (with a 1:1 randomisation ratio) will be centrally 
performed by using a secure, web-based system, which will be developed by the 
Methodological and Statistical Unit at the Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria of 
Modena. Randomisation stratified by 4 factors: 1) Gender (M/F); 2) Age (<75/≥75 
years); 3) BMI (<30/≥30); 4) Comorbidities (0-1/>2) with random variable block 
sizes will be generated by STATA software. The web-based system will guarantee 
the allocation concealment. Blinding (masking) The study is conceived as 
open-label: patients and all health-care personnel involved in the study will be 
aware of the assigned group.
NUMBERS TO BE RANDOMISED (SAMPLE SIZE): The target sample size is based on the 
hypothesis that LMWH administered at high doses versus low doses will 
significantly reduce the risk of clinical worsening. The overall sample size in 
this study is expected to be 300 with 150 in the Low-Dose LMWH control group and 
150 in the High-Dose LMWH intervention group, recruited over 10-11 months. 
Assuming an alpha of 5% (two tailed) and a percentage of patients who experience 
clinical worsening in the control group being between 25% and 30%, the study 
will have 80% power to detect at least 50% relative reduction in the risk of 
death between low and high doses of heparin.
TRIAL STATUS: Protocol version 1.2 of 11/05/2020. Recruitment start (expected): 
08/06/2020 Recruitment finish (expected): 30/04/2021 Trial registration EudraCT 
2020-001972-13, registered on April 17th, 2020 Full protocol The full protocol 
is attached as an additional file, accessible from the Trials website 
(Additional file 1). In the interest in expediting dissemination of this 
material, the familiar formatting has been eliminated; this Letter serves as a 
summary of the key elements of the full protocol.

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-020-04475-z
PMCID: PMC7316577
PMID: 32586394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


808. Trials. 2020 Jun 26;21(1):573. doi: 10.1186/s13063-020-04474-0.

Triiodothyronine for the treatment of critically ill patients with COVID-19 
infection: A structured summary of a study protocol for a randomised controlled 
trial.

Pantos C(1), Kostopanagiotou G(2)(3), Armaganidis A(4), Trikas A(2), Tseti I(2), 
Mourouzis I(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Medical School, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens, 75 Mikras Asias Ave.,11527 Goudi, Athens, Greece. 
cpantos@med.uoa.gr.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Medical School, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens, 75 Mikras Asias Ave.,11527 Goudi, Athens, Greece.
(3)Second Department of Anesthesiology, Medical School, National and 
Kapodistrian University of Athens, Attikon University Hospital, Athens, Greece.
(4)2nd Department of Critical Care, "Attikon" University Hospital, Medical 
School, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece.

OBJECTIVES: Tissue hypoxia is the main cause of multi-organ dysfunction in 
sepsis. However, effective pharmacological treatments to combat sepsis-induced 
tissue hypoxia are not available. Emerging experimental and clinical evidence 
reveals an evolutionary conserved action of thyroid hormone (TH) to adapt 
injured tissue to hypoxic conditions via its action on p38 MAPK, Akt signaling 
pathways. In addition, TH has favorable effects on the immune system and viral 
load in infected tissue. Non-Thyroid Illness Syndrome is common in sepsis, acute 
myocardial infarction and trauma and is associated with increased mortality. 
Thus, TH may be a novel treatment in the setting of critical illness due to 
viral infection in which hypoxia prevails. The present study aims to address the 
efficacy and safety of acute administration of triiodothyronine (T3) in 
critically ill COVID-19 infected patients requiring mechanical respiratory 
support or Extra Corporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO).
TRIAL DESIGN: This study is a phase II, parallel, 2-arm (1:1 ratio), 
multi-centre, prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled trial.
PARTICIPANTS: Male and female patients aged over 18 years old who are diagnosed 
with pulmonary infection due to COVID-19, admitted to Intensive Care Unit and 
requiring mechanical ventilation or ECMO will be enrolled in this trial. 
Patients will be excluded in cases of pregnancy, severe systemic disease with 
life expectancy less than 6 months, participation in another trial of an 
investigational drug or device, corticosteroid and/or sympathomimetic use before 
initiation of treatment. All data will be collected in electronic CRF files. 
Participants will start to be recruited from the ICU center of "ATTIKO" 
University Hospital in Greece. We aim to include two more clinical sites in the 
trial one from Greece and one from Germany INTERVENTION AND COMPARATOR: 
Intervention: T3 Solution for injection 10 μg/ml. The dose administered will be 
0.8g/kg i.v. bolus and will be followed by an infusion of 0.113g. kg-1.h-1 i.v. 
for 48 hours (therapeutic dose). After the first 48h, a maintenance dose will be 
administered corresponding to 50% of the therapeutic dose (0.057g. kg-1.h-1 
i.v.). Drug administration will stop after successful weaning or end of follow 
up (maximum 30 days). Comparator: Placebo with composition and dosage identical 
apart from the active substance.
MAIN OUTCOMES: The primary outcome assessed in the present study will be the 
percentage of patients successfully weaned after 30 days of follow-up. 
Successful weaning is defined as no requirement for ventilatory support after 
extubation (mechanical support) or support from ECMO for 48 hours.
RANDOMISATION: An allocation sequence to one of the groups will be prepared by 
the Sponsor of the study. A 1:1 treatment allocation will be adopted. An 
electronic CRF will be used incorporating IWRS in order to assure proper 
randomization and unblinding in emergency cases. The representative of the 
sponsor will get a copy of randomization codes. The information of the 
randomization codes will then be locked in the database until the time at which 
an interim analysis or final analysis is performed.
BLINDING (MASKING): Participants, caregivers, and all investigators assessing 
the outcomes will be blinded to group assignment.
NUMBERS TO BE RANDOMISED (SAMPLE SIZE): The sample size of 60 patients (that 
indicates 30 subjects for each group) will have 84% power to detect the 
estimated difference between the two study groups. The criterion for 
significance (alpha) has been set at 0.05 and the test is 2-tailed.
TRIAL STATUS: Protocol number T3inj-02/ThySupport, version 03, May 11, 2020. The 
trial is not recruiting yet. The trial will start recruitment June 18th 2020. 
Estimated recruitment will finish June 18th, 2021.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Triiodothyronine for the Treatment of Critically Ill 
Patients With COVID-19 Infection (Thy-Support), ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: 
NCT04348513, date of trial registration: April 16, 2020, EudraCT Identifier: 
2020-001623-13, date of trial registration: April 22, 2020 FULL PROTOCOL: The 
full protocol is attached as an additional file, accessible from the Trials 
website (Additional file 1). In the interest in expediting dissemination of this 
material, the familiar formatting has been eliminated; this Letter serves as a 
summary of the key elements of the full protocol.

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-020-04474-0
PMCID: PMC7316579
PMID: 32586399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The following pending patents are relevant to 
the work in this manuscript • PCT/EP2019/087056. L-triiodothyronine (T3) for use 
in limiting microvascular obstruction • Greek Patent Office, number of case: 
22-0002577373. Composition comprising L-triiodothyronine (T3) for use in the 
treatment of critically ill patients with coronavirus infection. IT, managing 
director of Uni-Pharma, is the sponsor and owner of these patents. CP and IM are 
the inventors and hold royalties in relation to these patents. The authors GK, 
AA and AT declare that they have no competing interests.


809. Handb Clin Neurol. 2020;170:333-348. doi:
10.1016/B978-0-12-822198-3.00052-5.

End of life care for patients with meningioma.

Elia G(1), Mayors Woods LE(1), Pantilat SZ(2).

Author information:
(1)Palliative Care Program, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, United States.
(2)Palliative Care Program, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, United States. Electronic address: steve.pantilat@ucsf.edu.

Palliative care (PC) supports patient with serious illnesses and can help 
patients with meningioma through the phases of their clinical trajectory, from 
initial diagnosis through the last hours of life. The PC team implements a 
multimodal transdisciplinary approach to address physical, psychosocial, and 
spiritual suffering with patients and their families, while also fostering 
constructive communication with the many health care providers involved. To 
achieve these goals the PC core team is comprised of physicians, nurse 
practitioners, physician assistants, nurses, social workers, and spiritual care 
providers who are trained to take care of patients with serious illnesses and to 
provide support to their families. The PC intervention can be instituted 
concurrently with all other treatments including those with a curative intent, 
and symptom management can be implemented while at the same time addressing 
reversible causes of distress. PC is practiced in acute care centers and 
long-term care facilities, usually by a consulting team, but other settings 
include outpatient clinics and home. When patients experience recurrence of 
their tumor and their life expectancy is shortened to 6 months or less, a 
hospice can provide the same transdisciplinary support by focusing on quality of 
life and symptom management for the patient while assisting the family through 
the clinical course and providing professional bereavement services after the 
patient's death.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-12-822198-3.00052-5
PMID: 32586506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Vaccine. 2020 Jul 14;38(33):5139-5147. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2020.06.036.
Epub  2020 Jun 22.

The impact of maternal RSV vaccine to protect infants in Gavi-supported 
countries: Estimates from two models.

Baral R(1), Li X(2), Willem L(2), Antillon M(3), Vilajeliu A(4), Jit M(5), 
Beutels P(2), Pecenka C(6).

Author information:
(1)PATH, PO Box 900922, Seattle, WA, 98109, USA. Electronic address: 
rbaral@path.org.
(2)Centre for Health Economics Research & Modelling Infectious Diseases 
(CHERMID), Vaccine & Infectious Disease Institute, Campus Drie Eiken, 
Universiteitsplein 1 - 2610, Wilrijk, Belgium.
(3)Centre for Health Economics Research & Modelling Infectious Diseases 
(CHERMID), Vaccine & Infectious Disease Institute, Campus Drie Eiken, 
Universiteitsplein 1 - 2610, Wilrijk, Belgium; University of Basel, 
Klingelbergstrasse 61, 4056 Basel, Switzerland; Swiss Tropical and Public Health 
Institute, Socinstrasse 57, 4051 Basel, Switzerland.
(4)Independent consultant, 3073 Cleveland Ave NW, Washington, DC 20008, USA.
(5)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, London WC1E 7HT, United Kingdom; Modelling and 
Economics Unit, Public Health England, 61 Colindale Avenue, London NW9 5EQ, 
United Kingdom; School of Public Health, Patrick Manson Building, 7 Sassoon 
Road, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
(6)PATH, PO Box 900922, Seattle, WA, 98109, USA.

BACKGROUND: Interventions to protect young infants against respiratory syncytial 
virus (RSV) are in advanced phases of development and are expected to be 
available in the foreseeable future. Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, included 
maternal vaccines and infant monoclonal antibodies for RSV as part of the 2018 
vaccine investment strategy (VIS) and decided to support these products subject 
to licensure, World Health Organization prequalification, Strategic Advisory 
Group of Experts recommendation, and meeting the financial assumptions used as 
the basis of the investment case. Impact estimates reported in this manuscript 
were used to inform the Gavi VIS.
METHODS: We compared two independent vaccine impact models to evaluate a 
potential maternal RSV vaccine's impact on infant health in 73 Gavi-supported 
countries. Key inputs were harmonized across both models. We analyzed various 
scenarios to evaluate the effect of uncertain model parameters such as vaccine 
efficacy, duration of infant protection, and infant disease burden. Estimates of 
averted cases, severe cases, hospitalizations, deaths, and disability-adjusted 
life years (DALYs) were calculated over the 2023-2035 horizon.
FINDINGS: A maternal RSV vaccine with 60% efficacy offering 5 months of infant 
protection implemented across 73 low- and middle-income countries could avert 
10.1-12.5 million cases, 2.8-4.0 million hospitalizations, 123.7-177.7 thousand 
deaths, and 8.5-11.9 million DALYs among infants under 6 months of age for the 
duration of analysis (2023-2035). Maternal RSV vaccination was projected to 
avert up to 42% of estimated RSV deaths among infants under 6 months in year 
2035. Alternative scenario analyses with higher disease burden assumptions 
showed that a maternal vaccine could avert as many as 325-355 thousand deaths 
among infants under 6 months.
INTERPRETATION: RSV maternal immunization is projected to substantially reduce 
mortality and morbidity among young infants if introduced across Gavi-supported 
countries.
FUNDING: This work was supported by Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Seattle, 
WA, and Respiratory Syncytial Virus Consortium in Europe. The findings and 
conclusions contained within are those of the authors and do not necessarily 
reflect positions or policies of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation or of the 
Respiratory Syncytial Virus Consortium. LW is supported by Research 
Foundation-Flanders (1234620 N).

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2020.06.036
PMCID: PMC7342012
PMID: 32586761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper. AV is a former Senior Programme Officer at GAVI.


811. Cell Death Dis. 2020 Jun 25;11(6):485. doi: 10.1038/s41419-020-2696-5.

Advances and potential pitfalls of oncolytic viruses expressing immunomodulatory 
transgene therapy for malignant gliomas.

Zhang Q(1)(2)(3), Liu F(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Brain Tumor Research Center, Beijing Neurosurgical Institute, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, 100070, China. qingm_zhang@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Beijing Tiantan Hospital Affiliated to Capital 
Medical University, Beijing, 100070, China. qingm_zhang@hotmail.com.
(3)Beijing Laboratory of Biomedical Materials, Beijing, 100070, China. 
qingm_zhang@hotmail.com.
(4)Brain Tumor Research Center, Beijing Neurosurgical Institute, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, 100070, China. liufusheng@ccmu.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Beijing Tiantan Hospital Affiliated to Capital 
Medical University, Beijing, 100070, China. liufusheng@ccmu.edu.cn.
(6)Beijing Laboratory of Biomedical Materials, Beijing, 100070, China. 
liufusheng@ccmu.edu.cn.

Erratum in
    Cell Death Dis. 2020 Nov 23;11(11):1007.

Glioblastoma (GBM) is an immunosuppressive, lethal brain tumor. Despite advances 
in molecular understanding and therapies, the clinical benefits have remained 
limited, and the life expectancy of patients with GBM has only been extended to 
~15 months. Currently, genetically modified oncolytic viruses (OV) that express 
immunomodulatory transgenes constitute a research hot spot in the field of 
glioma treatment. An oncolytic virus is designed to selectively target, infect, 
and replicate in tumor cells while sparing normal tissues. Moreover, many 
studies have shown therapeutic advantages, and recent clinical trials have 
demonstrated the safety and efficacy of their usage. However, the therapeutic 
efficacy of oncolytic viruses alone is limited, while oncolytic viruses 
expressing immunomodulatory transgenes are more potent inducers of immunity and 
enhance immune cell-mediated antitumor immune responses in GBM. An increasing 
number of basic studies on oncolytic viruses encoding immunomodulatory transgene 
therapy for malignant gliomas have yielded beneficial outcomes. Oncolytic 
viruses that are armed with immunomodulatory transgenes remain promising as a 
therapy against malignant gliomas and will undoubtedly provide new insights into 
possible clinical uses or strategies. In this review, we summarize the research 
advances related to oncolytic viruses that express immunomodulatory transgenes, 
as well as potential treatment pitfalls in patients with malignant gliomas.

DOI: 10.1038/s41419-020-2696-5
PMCID: PMC7316762
PMID: 32587256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


812. Front Aging Neurosci. 2020 Jun 10;12:150. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2020.00150. 
eCollection 2020.

APOE Alleles and Diet in Brain Aging and Alzheimer's Disease.

Yassine HN(1), Finch CE(2).

Author information:
(1)Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, 
United States.
(2)Leonard Davis School of Gerontology and Dornsife College, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, United States.

The APOE gene alleles modify human aging and the response to the diet at many 
levels with diverse pleotropic effects from gut to brain. To understand the 
interactions of APOE isoforms and diet, we analyze how cellular trafficking of 
apoE proteins affects energy metabolism, the immune system, and reproduction. 
The age-accelerating APOE4 allele alters the endosomal trafficking of cell 
surface receptors that mediate lipid and glucose metabolism. The APOE4 allele is 
the ancestral human allele, joined by APOE3 and then APOE2 in the human species. 
Under conditions of high infection, uncertain food, and shorter life expectancy, 
APOE4 may be adaptive for reducing mortality. As humans transitioned into modern 
less-infectious environments and longer life spans, APOE4 increased risks of 
aging-related diseases, particularly impacting arteries and the brain. The 
association of APOE4 with glucose dysregulation and body weight promotes many 
aging-associated diseases. Additionally, the APOE gene locus interacts with 
adjacent genes on chromosome 19 in haplotypes that modify neurodegeneration and 
metabolism, for which we anticipate complex gene-environment interactions. We 
summarize how diet and Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk are altered by APOE 
genotype in both animal and human studies and identify gaps. Much remains 
obscure in how APOE alleles modify nutritional factors in human aging. 
Identifying risk variant haplotypes in the APOE gene complex will clarify 
homeostatic adaptive responses to environmental conditions.

Copyright © 2020 Yassine and Finch.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2020.00150
PMCID: PMC7297981
PMID: 32587511


813. MDM Policy Pract. 2020 Jun 12;5(1):2381468320932894. doi: 
10.1177/2381468320932894. eCollection 2020 Jan-Jun.

Developing and Validating Metamodels of a Microsimulation Model of Infant HIV 
Testing and Screening Strategies Used in a Decision Support Tool for Health 
Policy Makers.

Soeteman DI(1), Resch SC(1), Jalal H(2), Dugdale CM(3), Penazzato M(4), 
Weinstein MC(1), Phillips A(5), Hou T(3), Abrams EJ(6), Dunning L(3), Newell 
ML(7), Pei PP(3), Freedberg KA(3), Walensky RP(3), Ciaranello AL(3).

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Decision Science, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public 
Health, Boston, Massachusetts.
(2)Department of Health Policy and Management, Graduate School of Public Health, 
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(3)Medical Practice Evaluation Center, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.
(4)HIV and Hepatitis Department, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
(5)Institute for Global Health, University College, London, UK.
(6)ICAP at Columbia University, Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia 
University, New York, New York.
(7)Institute for Development Studies, Human Development and Health, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.

Background. Metamodels can simplify complex health policy models and yield 
instantaneous results to inform policy decisions. We investigated the predictive 
validity of linear regression metamodels used to support a real-time 
decision-making tool that compares infant HIV testing/screening strategies. 
Methods. We developed linear regression metamodels of the Cost-Effectiveness of 
Preventing AIDS Complications Pediatric (CEPAC-P) microsimulation model used to 
predict life expectancy and lifetime HIV-related costs/person of two infant HIV 
testing/screening programs in South Africa. Metamodel performance was assessed 
with cross-validation and Bland-Altman plots, showing between-method differences 
in predicted outcomes against their means. Predictive validity was determined by 
the percentage of simulations in which the metamodels accurately predicted the 
strategy with the greatest net health benefit (NHB) as projected by the CEPAC-P 
model. We introduced a zone of indifference and investigated the width needed to 
produce between-method agreement in 95% of the simulations. We also calculated 
NHB losses from "wrong" decisions by the metamodel. Results. In 
cross-validation, linear regression metamodels accurately approximated 
CEPAC-P-projected outcomes. For life expectancy, Bland-Altman plots showed good 
agreement between CEPAC-P and the metamodel (within 1.1 life-months difference). 
For costs, 95% of between-method differences were within $65/person. The 
metamodels predicted the same optimal strategy as the CEPAC-P model in 87.7% of 
simulations, increasing to 95% with a zone of indifference of 0.24 life-months ( 
∼ 7 days). The losses in health benefits due to "wrong" choices by the metamodel 
were modest (range: 0.0002-1.1 life-months). Conclusions. For this policy 
question, linear regression metamodels offered sufficient predictive validity 
for the optimal testing strategy as compared with the CEPAC-P model. Metamodels 
can simulate different scenarios in real time, based on sets of input parameters 
that can be depicted in a widely accessible decision-support tool.

© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1177/2381468320932894
PMCID: PMC7294506
PMID: 32587893

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


814. Int J Cancer. 2020 Dec 15;147(12):3305-3312. doi: 10.1002/ijc.33178. Epub
2020  Jul 16.

Defining benchmarks for tolerable risk thresholds in cancer screening: Impact of 
HPV vaccination on the future of cervical cancer screening.

Tota JE(1)(2)(3), Isidean SD(2), Franco EL(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute, 
Rockville, Maryland, USA.
(2)Department of Oncology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(3)Department of Pharmacoepidemiology, Merck Research Laboratories, West Point, 
Pennsylvania, USA.

The performance of cervical cancer screening will decline as a function of lower 
disease prevalence-a consequence of successful human papillomavirus (HPV) 
vaccination. Replacement of cytology with molecular HPV testing as the primary 
screening test and adoption of risk-based screening, with less intense screening 
of vaccinated individuals and initiated at older ages is expected to improve 
efficiency. However, policy officials may decide to further reduce or eliminate 
screening as the ratio of benefits to harms continues to decline. To evaluate 
the level of risk currently tolerated for different cancers in the United States 
(ie, for which clinical guidelines do not recommend secondary prevention though 
effective screening methods exist), we used US cancer registry data to compare 
incidence (2008-2012) and survival (1988-2011) associated with different cancers 
for which organized screening is recommended and not recommended. The most 
common cancer at ages 70 to 74 years (ie, age group with highest cancer 
incidence and reasonable life expectancy to consider screening in the US) 
satisfying Wilson and Jungner's classic screening criteria was vulvar cancer 
(incidence = 9/100 000 females). In comparison, the incidence of cervical cancer 
among females 65 years of age (the upper recommended age limit for screening) 
was 13 cases per 100 000 females (low as a reflection of effective screening), 
whereas 10-year survival was 66% (similar to vulvar cancer at 67%). Our approach 
of defining tolerable risk in cancer screening could help guide future decisions 
to modify cervical screening programs.

© 2020 The Authors. International Journal of Cancer published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd on behalf of Union for International Cancer Control.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.33178
PMCID: PMC7689748
PMID: 32588426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J. E. T. is an employee of Merck Sharp & Dohme 
Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, NJ, USA but completed all 
work associated with this manuscript while employed at the National Cancer 
Institute. E. L. F. does not have a conflict of interest with the content of 
this manuscript but has occasionally served as a consultant to Merck and GSK on 
HPV vaccines, and to Roche and BD on HPV diagnostics. His institution received 
unrestricted grants from Merck and Roche. S. D. I. declared no potential 
conflicts of interest.


815. Health Technol Assess. 2020 Jun;24(29):1-314. doi: 10.3310/hta24290.

Denosumab, raloxifene, romosozumab and teriparatide to prevent osteoporotic 
fragility fractures: a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Davis S(1), Simpson E(1), Hamilton J(1), James MM(1), Rawdin A(1), Wong R(1), 
Goka E(1), Gittoes N(2), Selby P(3).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research 
(ScHARR), University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(2)University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham, UK.
(3)School of Medical Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.

BACKGROUND: Fragility fractures are fractures that result from mechanical forces 
that would not ordinarily result in fracture.
OBJECTIVES: The objectives were to evaluate the clinical effectiveness, safety 
and cost-effectiveness of non-bisphosphonates {denosumab [Prolia®; Amgen Inc., 
Thousand Oaks, CA, USA], raloxifene [Evista®; Daiichi Sankyo Company, Ltd, 
Tokyo, Japan], romosozumab [Evenity®; Union Chimique Belge (UCB) S.A. (Brussels, 
Belgium) and Amgen Inc.] and teriparatide [Forsteo®; Eli Lilly and Company, 
Indianapolis, IN, USA]}, compared with each other, bisphosphonates or no 
treatment, for the prevention of fragility fracture.
DATA SOURCES: For the clinical effectiveness review, nine electronic databases 
(including MEDLINE, EMBASE and the World Health Organization International 
Clinical Trials Registry Platform) were searched up to July 2018.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review and network meta-analysis of fracture and 
femoral neck bone mineral density were conducted. A review of published economic 
analyses was undertaken and a model previously used to evaluate bisphosphonates 
was adapted. Discrete event simulation was used to estimate lifetime costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years for a simulated cohort of patients with 
heterogeneous characteristics. This was done for each non-bisphosphonate 
treatment, a strategy of no treatment, and the five bisphosphonate treatments 
previously evaluated. The model was populated with effectiveness evidence from 
the systematic review and network meta-analysis. All other parameters were 
estimated from published sources. An NHS and Personal Social Services 
perspective was taken, and costs and benefits were discounted at 3.5% per annum. 
Fracture risk was estimated from patient characteristics using the QFracture® 
(QFracture-2012 open source revision 38, Clinrisk Ltd, Leeds, UK) and FRAX® (web 
version 3.9, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK) tools. The relationship 
between fracture risk and incremental net monetary benefit was estimated using 
non-parametric regression. A probabilistic sensitivity analysis and scenario 
analyses were used to assess uncertainty.
RESULTS: Fifty-two randomised controlled trials of non-bisphosphonates were 
included in the clinical effectiveness systematic review and an additional 51 
randomised controlled trials of bisphosphonates were included in the network 
meta-analysis. All treatments had beneficial effects compared with placebo for 
vertebral, non-vertebral and hip fractures, with hazard ratios varying from 0.23 
to 0.94, depending on treatment and fracture type. The effects on vertebral 
fractures and the percentage change in bone mineral density were statistically 
significant for all treatments. The rate of serious adverse events varied across 
trials (0-33%), with most between-group differences not being statistically 
significant for comparisons with placebo/no active treatment, 
non-bisphosphonates or bisphosphonates. The incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios were > £20,000 per quality-adjusted life-year for all non-bisphosphonate 
interventions compared with no treatment across the range of QFracture and FRAX 
scores expected in the population eligible for fracture risk assessment. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for denosumab may fall below £30,000 per 
quality-adjusted life-year at very high levels of risk or for high-risk patients 
with specific characteristics. Raloxifene was dominated by no treatment 
(resulted in fewer quality-adjusted life-years) in most risk categories.
LIMITATIONS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios are uncertain for very 
high-risk patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Non-bisphosphonates are effective in preventing fragility 
fractures, but the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios are generally greater 
than the commonly applied threshold of £20,000-30,000 per quality-adjusted 
life-year.
STUDY REGISTRATION: This study is registered as PROSPERO CRD42018107651.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research 
(NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in 
Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 24, No. 29. See the NIHR Journals Library 
website for further project information.

Plain Language Summary: BACKGROUND: Fragility fractures are fractures that 
result from mechanical forces that would not ordinarily result in fracture, 
known as low-level (or ‘low-energy’) trauma. Some people are at particularly 
high risk of fragility fractures. The first treatment used is often a 
bisphosphonate, but non-bisphosphonate treatments are alternatives.
AIMS: We aimed to determine how effective non-bisphosphonates {denosumab 
