© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnaa112
PMCID: PMC8023372
PMID: 32833008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. J Sci Food Agric. 2021 Mar 15;101(4):1403-1410. doi: 10.1002/jsfa.10753.
Epub  2020 Sep 19.

Sanitizer efficacy in reducing microbial load on commercially grown hydroponic 
lettuce.

Dankwa AS(1), Machado RM(1)(2), Perry JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Food and Agriculture, University of Maine, Orono, ME, USA.
(2)Cooperative Extension, University of Maine, Orono, ME, USA.

BACKGROUND: Most hydroponic lettuce growers harvest and package their 
marketable-size lettuces with an intact root ball. With a high microbial load on 
the peat moss substrate, there is a risk of microbial transfer onto the edible 
portion during packaging and throughout the product's shelf life. Since the 
produce is believed to have no contact with the substrate, no sanitizer wash is 
performed before packaging and storage.
RESULTS: Aerobic plate count (APC) results suggested that reduction in count was 
influenced by both sanitizer application and storage time. Peroxyacetic acid 
significantly reduced APC count on leaves, roots, and substrate, with a 
1.8 log CFU g-1 initial reduction on the leaf. Fungi and APC levels increased 
with storage time, with the greatest APC increase in the roots. Leaves had the 
lowest coliform bacteria (CB), with chlorine slightly reducing CB count. Unlike 
APC, CB levels decreased during storage on the substrate and root samples. No 
Listeria positive was confirmed by agglutination test. Further evaluation of 
different commercial substrates reveals that Com4, a drier-compacted plug, had 
the least ability to support growth/survival of all microbial populations 
enumerated relative to the spongy, wet black plugs.
CONCLUSION: The ability of peat moss substrates to host microorganisms is 
influenced by the physical properties of the product. Sanitizer wash efficacy is 
dependent on the initial microbial load and the length of storage. Chlorine and 
peroxyacetic acid are effective in reducing microbial populations on the leaves 
of hydroponically grown lettuce without affecting visual quality during shelf 
life. © 2020 Society of Chemical Industry.

© 2020 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/jsfa.10753
PMID: 32833277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Acta Ophthalmol. 2021 May;99(3):e330-e335. doi: 10.1111/aos.14589. Epub 2020
Aug  24.

Variations and trends in global disease burden of age-related macular 
degeneration: 1990-2017.

Zou M(1)(2), Zhang Y(3), Chen A(4), Young CA(5), Li Y(6), Zheng D(1), Jin G(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun 
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Zhongshan School of Medicine, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Malignant 
Tumor Epigenetics and Gene Regulation, Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital, Sun 
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(4)The Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University, Zhuhai, China.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, Third Affiliated Hospital, Nanchang University, 
Nanchang, China.
(6)School of Pharmacy and Food Science, Zhuhai College of Jilin University, 
Zhuhai, China.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the disease burden of age-related macular degeneration 
(AMD) and to evaluate the risk factors of disability-adjusted life years (DALY) 
caused by AMD.
METHODS: Country-specific DALY number, rate and age-standardized rate of AMD 
were acquired from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017 database. The 
Socio-demographic Index (SDI), Human Development Index (HDI), 
Inequality-adjusted Human Development Index (IA-HDI) and other related data were 
obtained from published data or shared databases. Regression analysis was 
conducted to evaluate the correlations between the potential risk factors and 
the age-standardized DALY rate of AMD.
RESULTS: The DALY number doubled from 1990 to 2017, and DALY rate increased from 
4.73 (95% CI: 3.19-6.54) to 6.95 (95% CI: 4.76-9.54). However, change was small 
after standardizing. Females tended to have severer burden. Disability-adjusted 
life years (DALY) rates were correlated to annual PM2.5 concentration, gross 
domestic product (GDP) per capita, population with at least some secondary 
education (secondary education), glaucoma prevalence and gross national income 
(GNI) per capita. In SDI model, glaucoma, GDP, healthcare access and quality 
index (HAQ) and secondary education were associated with disease burden 
(p < 0.001). In IA-HDI model, cataract, glaucoma, PM2.5, GDP and secondary 
education were correlated to DALY rates (p < 0.001). In model included four 
components of HDI, glaucoma, PM2.5, GDP, secondary education, expected years of 
schooling and life expectancy at birth were associated (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Being female, older age, poor socioeconomic status and less educated 
are associated with a heavier disease burden of AMD. These findings would 
provide a basic understanding for policy making on AMD prevention and treatment.

© 2020 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.14589
PMID: 32833305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Stroke. 2020 Jul;51(7):2131-2138. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.120.029318. Epub
2020  Jun 17.

Urban-Rural Inequities in Acute Stroke Care and In-Hospital Mortality.

Hammond G(1), Luke AA(2), Elson L(2), Towfighi A(3), Joynt Maddox KE(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology (G.H., K.E.J.M.).
(2)Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, MO (A.A.L., L.E.).
(3)Department of Neurology, University of Southern California Keck School of 
Medicine (A.T.).
(4)Institute for Public Health at Washington University, St Louis, MO 
(K.E.J.M.).

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The rural-urban life-expectancy gap is widening, but 
underlying causes are incompletely understood. Prior studies suggest stroke care 
may be worse for individuals in more rural areas, and technological advancements 
in stroke care may disproportionately impact individuals in more rural areas. We 
sought to examine differences and 5-year trends in the care and outcomes of 
patients hospitalized for stroke across rural-urban strata.
METHODS: Retrospective cohort study using National Inpatient Sample data from 
2012 to 2017. Rurality was classified by county of residence according to the 
6-strata National Center for Health Statistics classification scheme.
RESULTS: There were 792 054 hospitalizations for acute stroke in our sample. 
Rural patients were more often white (78% versus 49%), older than 75 (44% versus 
40%), and in the lowest quartile of income (59% versus 32%) compared with urban 
patients. Among patients with acute ischemic stroke, intravenous thrombolysis 
and endovascular therapy use were lower for rural compared with urban patients 
(intravenous thrombolysis: 4.2% versus 9.2%, adjusted odds ratio, 0.55 [95% CI, 
0.51-0.59], P<0.001; endovascular therapy: 1.63% versus 2.41%, adjusted odds 
ratio, 0.64 [0.57-0.73], P<0.001). Urban-rural gaps in both therapies persisted 
from 2012 to 2017. Overall, stroke mortality was higher in rural than urban 
areas (6.87% versus 5.82%, P<0.001). Adjusted in-patient mortality rates 
increased across categories of increasing rurality (suburban, 0.97 [0.94-1.0], 
P=0.086; large towns, 1.05 [1.01-1.09], P=0.009; small towns, 1.10 [1.06-1.15], 
P<0.001; micropolitan rural, 1.16 [1.11-1.21], P<0.001; and remote rural 1.21 
[1.15-1.27], P<0.001 compared with urban patients. Mortality for rural patients 
compared with urban patients did not improve from 2012 (adjusted odds ratio, 
1.12 [1.00-1.26], P<0.001) to 2017 (adjusted odds ratio, 1.27 [1.13-1.42], 
P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Rural patients with stroke were less likely to receive intravenous 
thrombolysis or endovascular therapy and had higher in-hospital mortality than 
their urban counterparts. These gaps did not improve over time. Enhancing access 
to evidence-based stroke care may be a target for reducing rural-urban 
disparities.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.120.029318
PMID: 32833593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Econ Hist Rev. 2020 Aug;73(3):E1-E19. doi: 10.1111/ehr.13019. Epub 2020 Jul
15.

An introduction to the history of infectious diseases, epidemics and the early 
phases of the long-run decline in mortality.

Shaw-Taylor L(1).

Author information:
(1)Senior Lecturer in History, Faculty of History; Co-director of the Cambridge 
Group for the History of Population and Social Structure University of 
Cambridge.

This article, written during the COVID-19 epidemic, provides a general 
introduction to the long-term history of infectious diseases, epidemics and the 
early phases of the spectacular long-term improvements in life expectancy since 
1750, primarily with reference to English history. The story is a fundamentally 
optimistic one. In 2019 global life expectancy was approaching 73 years. In 1800 
it was probably about 30. To understand the origins of this transition, we have 
to look at the historical sequence by which so many causes of premature death 
have been vanquished over time. In England that story begins much earlier than 
often supposed, in the years around 1600. The first two 'victories' were over 
famine and plague. However, economic changes with negative influences on 
mortality meant that, despite this, life expectancies were either falling or 
stable between the late sixteenth and mid eighteenth centuries. The late 
eighteenth and early nineteenth century saw major declines in deaths from 
smallpox, malaria and typhus and the beginnings of the long-run increases in 
life expectancy. The period also saw urban areas become capable of demographic 
growth without a constant stream of migrants from the countryside: a necessary 
precondition for the global urbanization of the last two centuries and for 
modern economic growth. Since 1840 the highest national life expectancy globally 
has increased by three years in every decade.

© Economic History Society 2020.

DOI: 10.1111/ehr.13019
PMCID: PMC7404362
PMID: 32834070


561. Leuk Lymphoma. 2020 Dec;61(14):3387-3394. doi:
10.1080/10428194.2020.1808208.  Epub 2020 Aug 24.

Cost-effectiveness of polatuzumab vedotin in relapsed or refractory diffuse 
large B-cell lymphoma.

Patel KK(1), Isufi I(1), Kothari S(1), Foss F(1), Huntington S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology/Oncology, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, CT, USA.
(2)Yale Cancer Outcomes, Public Policy and Effectiveness Research (COPPER) 
Center, New Haven, CT, USA.

Comment in
    Leuk Lymphoma. 2020 Dec;61(14):3283-3286.

A recent phase II trial showed that use of polatuzumab vedotin in combination 
with bendamustine plus rituximab (Pola-BR) in transplant-ineligible patients 
with relapsed or refractory (R/R) diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) resulted 
in longer progression-free survival and overall survival compared to 
bendamustine plus rituximab (BR) alone. In this study, we constructed a Markov 
model to assess the cost-effectiveness of Pola-BR versus BR in 
transplant-ineligible R/R DLBCL. We calculated the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of each treatment strategy from a US payer 
perspective, using a lifetime horizon and a willingness-to-pay threshold of 
$100,000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Use of Pola-BR was associated 
with an incremental cost of $92,641 compared to BR alone ($200,905 vs $108,265, 
respectively), an incremental effectiveness of 1.76 QALYs (2.35 vs 0.59 QALYs, 
respectively), and an ICER of $52,519/QALY. These data suggest that use of 
Pola-BR for R/R DLBCL is likely to be cost-effective compared to BR alone.

DOI: 10.1080/10428194.2020.1808208
PMID: 32835553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Ageing Res Rev. 2020 Nov;63:101151. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2020.101151. Epub
2020  Aug 22.

The ageing kidney: Molecular mechanisms and clinical implications.

Fang Y(1), Gong AY(2), Haller ST(3), Dworkin LD(4), Liu Z(5), Gong R(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, China; Division of Nephrology, University of Toledo 
College of Medicine, Toledo, Ohio, USA.
(2)Division of Nephrology, University of Toledo College of Medicine, Toledo, 
Ohio, USA.
(3)Division of Cardiology, University of Toledo College of Medicine, Toledo, 
Ohio, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Toledo College of Medicine, Toledo, 
Ohio, USA.
(5)Department of Nephrology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, China. Electronic address: zhangsuoliu@zzu.edu.cn.
(6)Division of Nephrology, University of Toledo College of Medicine, Toledo, 
Ohio, USA; Department of Medicine, University of Toledo College of Medicine, 
Toledo, Ohio, USA; Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of 
Toledo College of Medicine, Toledo, Ohio, USA. Electronic address: 
Rujun.Gong@UToledo.edu.

As human life expectancy keeps increasing, ageing populations present a growing 
challenge for clinical practices. Human ageing is associated with molecular, 
structural, and functional changes in a variety of organ systems, including the 
kidney. During the ageing process, the kidney experiences progressive functional 
decline as well as macroscopic and microscopic histological alterations, which 
are accentuated by systemic comorbidities like hypertension and diabetes 
mellitus, or by preexisting or underlying kidney diseases. Although ageing per 
se does not cause kidney injury, physiologic changes associated with normal 
ageing processes are likely to impair the reparative capacity of the kidney and 
thus predispose older people to acute kidney disease, chronic kidney disease and 
other renal diseases. Mechanistically, cell senescence plays a key role in renal 
ageing, involving a number of cellular signaling mechanisms, many of which may 
be harnessed as international targets for slowing or even reversing kidney 
ageing. This review summarizes the clinical characteristics of renal ageing, 
highlights the latest progresses in deciphering the role of cell senescence in 
renal ageing, and envisages potential interventional strategies and novel 
therapeutic targets for preventing or improving renal ageing in the hope of 
maintaining long-term kidney health and function across the life course.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2020.101151
PMCID: PMC7595250
PMID: 32835891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


563. Ethics Med Public Health. 2020 Oct-Dec;15:100570. doi: 
10.1016/j.jemep.2020.100570. Epub 2020 Jul 28.

Choosing which COVID-19 patient to save? The ethical triage and rationing 
dilemma.

Jaziri R(1), Alnahdi S(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Jeddah, College of Business, Department of Healthcare Services 
and Hospital Administration, Asfan Road 285, Dhahban, P.O. Box: 42801, 21551 
Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.

Killing someone directly is never morally right, but sometimes, choosing someone 
to save and leaving another to die is. The moral philosophy, law, and medical 
ethics have all wrestled with the problem of distinguishing between saving 
someone and leaving another to die. While this distinction might seem 
intuitively straightforward, it becomes far more complex when applied in 
treating patients of novel Coronavirus Disease pandemic (COVID-19). The World 
Health Organization reports more than eight million and half cases of infection 
and more than 450,000 deaths, 26% in USA. However, with the exponential rise in 
number of COVID-19 victims and the shortage of life-saving ventilators, the 
pandemic has imposed to health professionals an ethical medical triage 
decision-making based on the utilitarian theory to maximize total benefits and 
life expectancy. Moreover, the decision to put restrictions on treatment 
beneficence is not discretionary, but an indispensable response to the 
overwhelming impacts of COVID-19 pandemic. The main concern is not whether to 
underline priorities, but how to do so systematically and ethically, instead of 
building decisions on individualized institutional aspirations or health 
professionals' intuition. The serious glaring disequilibrium, in healthcare 
market, between supply and demand for scarce medical resources in several 
developed nations (including the USA, UK, France, Italy, Spain, etc.) imposes a 
fundamental question: which COVID-19 patient to save when facing scarce 
resources?

Publisher: Tuer quelqu’un directement n’est jamais moralement correct, mais 
parfois, choisir quelqu’un à sauver et en laisser un autre mourir l’est. La 
philosophie morale, le droit et l’éthique médicale ont tous été confrontés au 
problème de la distinction entre sauver quelqu’un et en laisser mourir un autre. 
Si cette distinction peut sembler intuitive, elle devient beaucoup plus complexe 
lorsqu’elle est appliquée au traitement des patients atteints d’une nouvelle 
pandémie de maladie à coronavirus (COVID-19). L’Organisation mondiale de la 
santé signale plus de huit millions et demi de cas d’infection et plus de 
450 000 décès, dont 26 % aux États-Unis. Cependant, avec l’augmentation 
exponentielle du nombre de victimes de COVID-19 et la pénurie de respirateurs 
vitaux, la pandémie a imposé aux professionnels de la santé une prise de 
décision éthique de tri médical basée sur la théorie utilitariste pour maximiser 
les bénéfices totaux et l’espérance de vie. En outre, la décision de restreindre 
la prise en charge des patients n’est pas discrétionnaire, mais constitue une 
réponse indispensable aux conséquences considérables de la pandémie de COVID-19. 
La principale préoccupation n’est pas de savoir s’il faut souligner les 
priorités, mais comment le faire de manière systématique et éthique, au lieu de 
fonder les décisions sur des aspirations institutionnelles individualisées ou 
sur l’intuition des professionnels de la santé. Le grave déséquilibre flagrant, 
sur le marché des soins de santé, entre l’offre et la demande de ressources 
médicales rares dans plusieurs pays développés (dont les États-Unis, le 
Royaume-Uni, la France, l’Italie, l’Espagne, etc.) pose une question 
fondamentale : quel patient COVID-19 faut-il sauver face à la rareté des 
ressources ?

© 2020 Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jemep.2020.100570
PMCID: PMC7386423
PMID: 32837999


564. Curr HIV Res. 2021;19(1):4-13. doi: 10.2174/1570162X18666200824104140.

Emerging Trends in the Long-Acting Antiretroviral Therapy: Current Status and 
Therapeutic Challenges.

Labh R(1), Gupta R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University College of Medical Sciences & GTB 
Hospital, University of Delhi, New Delhi, India.

Antiretroviral drug therapy has significantly improved the prognosis and life 
expectancy of people living with HIV over the years. But this progress comes 
with an important caveat that antiretroviral regimens generally require 
adherence to life-long, daily dosing, to keep viral multiplication under check. 
Non-adherence to such dosing leads to decreased efficacy and increased drug 
resistance against antiretroviral drugs. Besides, poor drug penetration to 
certain tissues like CNS and lymph nodes leads to the build-up of viral 
reservoirs in these sites. To combat some of these challenges and improve 
patient compliance, long-acting antiretroviral drugs, are a new weapon in the 
arsenal, in the fight against HIV. Few long-acting preparations have been 
approved, and several others are in various clinical and preclinical stages of 
development. However, long-acting formulations also have their share of clinical 
issues like limited drug distribution, long term adverse drug reactions, 
drug-drug interactions, and gradual development of drug resistance. Modern 
technological premises are being tested to mitigate some of these problems. One 
such promising approach involves nanotechnological methods, which are being used 
to develop ultra-long acting formulations and drug delivery systems, targeting 
tissues with residual HIV concentration. Long-Acting Slow Effective Release 
Antiretroviral Therapy aka LASER ART, also builds on nanotechnology and prodrug 
modifications to design preparations with tailor-made favorable pharmacokinetics 
and wider drug distribution. These recent advances are fueling the progression 
of antiretroviral therapy towards eliminating the disease.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1570162X18666200824104140
PMID: 32838720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. BJPsych Open. 2020 Aug 25;6(5):e95. doi: 10.1192/bjo.2020.77.

Childbearing and mortality among women with personality disorders: nationwide 
registered-based cohort study.

Kouppis E(1), Björkenstam C(1), Gerdin B(2), Ekselius L(1), Björkenstam E(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Uppsala University, Sweden.
(2)Department of Surgical Sciences, Uppsala University, Sweden.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Uppsala University, Sweden; and Division of 
Insurance Medicine, Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, 
Sweden.

BACKGROUND: People with a personality disorder have a higher mortality and 
reduced life expectancy than the general population. Childbearing is thought to 
have a protective effect on morbidity and mortality. Yet, there are no studies 
on whether childbearing is related to a lower mortality among women with 
personality disorder.
AIMS: This study examined associations between childbearing and mortality among 
women with personality disorder. Our hypothesis was that parity would be 
associated with lower mortality.
METHOD: This register-based cohort study included 27 412 women treated for 
personality disorder in in-patient or specialised out-patient care between 1990 
and 2015. We used nationwide population-based registers to obtain information on 
sociodemographics, child delivery, healthcare use and mortality. Mortality risk 
estimates were calculated as hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% CIs using Cox 
regression. Adjustments were made for year of birth, educational level, age at 
diagnosis, comorbidity and severity of personality disorder.
RESULTS: Nulliparous women had a nearly twofold increased mortality risk 
(adjusted HR = 1.78, 95% CI 1.50-2.12) compared with parous women and over 
twofold mortality risk (adjusted HR = 2.29, 95% CI 1.72-3.04) compared with 
those giving birth after their first personality disorder diagnosis. Those 
giving birth before their first personality disorder diagnosis had a 1.5-fold 
higher risk of mortality than those giving birth after their first personality 
disorder diagnosis (adjusted HR = 1.48, 95% CI 1.06-2.07). There was a threefold 
risk of suicide in nulliparous women compared with those giving birth after 
their first personality disorder diagnosis (adjusted HR = 2.90, 95% CI 
1.97-4.26).
CONCLUSIONS: Childbearing history should be an integral part of the clinical 
evaluation of women with personality disorder.

DOI: 10.1192/bjo.2020.77
PMCID: PMC7488311
PMID: 32838831

Conflict of interest statement: None. SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL:


566. J Cardiothorac Vasc Anesth. 2021 Mar;35(3):752-762. doi: 
10.1053/j.jvca.2020.07.027. Epub 2020 Jul 10.

A Review of Heart Transplantation for Adults With Congenital Heart Disease.

McMahon A(1), McNamara J(2), Griffin M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine, Mater 
Misericordiae University Hospital, Dublin, Ireland. Electronic address: 
mcmahoma@tcd.ie.
(2)Department of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine, Mater 
Misericordiae University Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.

As techniques for corrective and palliative surgery in congenital heart disease 
improve, the number of patients surviving to become adults with congenital heart 
disease (ACHD) has increased. A significant proportion of these patients will 
progress to develop advanced heart failure, the symptoms of which vary, 
complicating prediction of life expectancy. Unlike acquired heart failure, there 
is a lack of evidence-based treatments with which to relieve symptoms and 
prolong survival. As a result, a number of ACHD patients will proceed to heart 
transplantation. Referral for transplantation should be considered early, given 
the difficulties with prognostication, and should take place in a center with 
surgical and medical expertise in the management of ACHD patients and 
transplantation. In addition to assessing contraindications to heart 
transplantation for the general population, factors specific to ACHD should be 
considered. These include pulmonary hypertension, cyanosis, liver disease, 
previous surgeries, and the degree of allosensitization. Once listed for 
transplantation, ACHD patients spend longer on the waitlist, and are more likely 
to die or be delisted than their non-ACHD counterparts. Mechanical circulatory 
support is used less commonly as a bridge to transplantation given the 
difficulties with implantation and unfamiliarity of use. Recent evidence 
suggests that with increased experience and early consideration, mechanical 
circulatory support can be used successfully as a bridging therapy. Despite a 
higher early mortality, long-term survival is greater for ACHD patients after 
transplant due to younger age and relative lack of comorbidities. With early 
referral, careful assessment of each individual's unique anatomy and physiology, 
and care in a center experienced with ACHD patients and transplantation, 
outcomes will continue to improve.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.jvca.2020.07.027
PMID: 32839039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest None.


567. Occup Environ Med. 2021 Feb;78(2):125-128. doi: 10.1136/oemed-2020-106556.
Epub  2020 Aug 24.

Socio-economic disparity in the global burden of occupational noise-induced 
hearing loss: an analysis for 2017 and the trend since 1990.

Zhou H(1), Zhou Y(1), Zhang H(2), Yu A(1), Zhu B(1), Zhang L(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of occupational health, Hangzhou Hospital for the Prevention and 
Treatment of Occupational Diseases, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Zhejiang University School of Medicine Second 
Affiliated Hospital, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(3)Department of occupational health, Hangzhou Hospital for the Prevention and 
Treatment of Occupational Diseases, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China 
leizhanghz@163.com.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate socio-economic disparity in the global burden of 
occupational noise-induced hearing loss (ONIHL) using disability-adjusted 
life-years (DALYs).
METHODS: The numbers of DALYs due to ONIHL, age-standardised DALY rates and 
national human development index (HDI) data from 1990 to 2017 were collected. 
The relationship between the age-standardised DALY rates and the 2017 HDI was 
analysed. A concentration index (CI) and a relative index of inequality (RII) 
were calculated to evaluate the trend in socio-economic disparity in the burden 
of ONIHL for the period 1990-2017.
RESULTS: From 1990 to 2017, the global DALYs due to ONIHL increased from 3.3 to 
6.0 million, with the highest growth occurring in low-income countries (110.7%). 
Age-standardised DALY rates due to ONIHL were negatively associated with the HDI 
(β = -0.733, p<0.001), and these rates were significantly higher in countries 
with a lower HDI. From 1990 to 2017, the trend in between-country inequality was 
flat with little fluctuation, the CIs stayed near -0.17, and the RIIs remained 
near 0.35.
CONCLUSIONS: Over the past few decades, low-income countries have experienced 
the most rapid growth in DALYs worldwide. A widening socio-economic disparity 
has persisted in the global burden of ONIHL, with a higher burden in lower 
socio-economic countries. These data suggest that more prevention programmes and 
healthcare services should be provided for developing countries.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/oemed-2020-106556
PMID: 32839184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


568. Inj Prev. 2020 Oct;26(Supp 1):i125-i153. doi:
10.1136/injuryprev-2019-043531.  Epub 2020 Aug 24.

Estimating global injuries morbidity and mortality: methods and data used in the 
Global Burden of Disease 2017 study.

James SL(1), Castle CD(1), Dingels ZV(1), Fox JT(1), Hamilton EB(1), Liu Z(1), 
Roberts NLS(1), Sylte DO(1), Bertolacci GJ(1), Cunningham M(1), Henry NJ(1), 
LeGrand KE(1), Abdelalim A(2), Abdollahpour I(3), Abdulkader RS(4), Abedi A(5), 
Abegaz KH(6)(7), Abosetugn AE(8), Abushouk AI(9), Adebayo OM(10), Adsuar JC(11), 
Advani SM(12)(13), Agudelo-Botero M(14), Ahmad T(15)(16), Ahmed MB(17), Ahmed 
R(18)(19), Eddine Aichour MT(20), Alahdab F(21), Alanezi FM(22), Alema NM(23), 
Alemu BW(24)(25), Alghnam SA(26), Ali BA(27), Ali S(28), Alinia C(29), Alipour 
V(30)(31), Aljunid SM(32)(33), Almasi-Hashiani A(34), Almasri NA(35), Altirkawi 
K(36), Abdeldayem Amer YS(37)(38), Andrei CL(39), Ansari-Moghaddam A(40), T 
Antonio CA(41)(42), Anvari D(43)(44), Yaw Appiah SC(45)(46), Arabloo J(30), 
Arab-Zozani M(47), Arefi Z(48), Aremu O(49), Ariani F(50), Arora A(51)(52), 
Asaad M(53), Ayala Quintanilla BP(54)(55), Ayano G(56), Ayanore MA(57), Azarian 
G(58), Badawi A(59)(60), Badiye AD(61), Baig AA(62)(63), Bairwa M(64)(65), 
Bakhtiari A(66), Balachandran A(67)(68), Banach M(69)(70), Banerjee SK(71), 
Banik PC(72), Banstola A(73), Barker-Collo SL(74), Bärnighausen TW(75)(76), 
Barzegar A(77), Bayati M(78), Bazargan-Hejazi S(79)(80), Bedi N(81)(82), 
Behzadifar M(83), Belete H(84), Bennett DA(85), Bensenor IM(86), Berhe K(87), 
Bhagavathula AS(88)(89), Bhardwaj P(90)(91), Bhat AG(92), Bhattacharyya 
K(93)(94), Bhutta ZA(95)(96), Bibi S(97), Bijani A(98), Boloor A(99), Borges 
G(100), Borschmann R(101)(102), Borzì AM(103), Boufous S(104), Braithwaite 
D(105), Briko NI(106), Brugha T(107), Budhathoki SS(108), Car J(109)(110), 
Cárdenas R(111), Carvalho F(112), Castaldelli-Maia JM(113), Castañeda-Orjuela 
CA(114)(115), Castelpietra G(116)(117), Catalá-López F(118)(119), Cerin 
E(120)(121), Chandan JS(122), Chapman JR(123), Chattu VK(124), Chattu SK(125), 
Chatziralli I(126)(127), Chaudhary N(128)(129), Cho DY(130), Choi JJ(131), Kabir 
Chowdhury MA(132)(133), Christopher DJ(134), Chu DT(135), Cicuttini FM(136), 
Coelho JM(137), Costa VM(112), Dahlawi SMA(138), Daryani A(139), 
Dávila-Cervantes CA(140), Leo D(141), Demeke FM(142), Demoz GT(143)(144), Demsie 
DG(23), Deribe K(145)(146), Desai R(147), Nasab MD(148), Silva DDD(149), Dibaji 
Forooshani ZS(150), Do HT(151), Doyle KE(152), Driscoll TR(153), Dubljanin 
E(154), Adema BD(155)(156), Eagan AW(157)(158), Elemineh DA(159), El-Jaafary 
SI(2), El-Khatib Z(160)(161), Ellingsen CL(162)(163), Zaki MES(164), Eskandarieh 
S(165), Eyawo O(166)(167), Faris PS(168)(169), Faro A(170), Farzadfar F(171), 
Fereshtehnejad SM(172)(173), Fernandes E(174), Ferrara P(175), Fischer F(176), 
Folayan MO(177), Fomenkov AA(178), Foroutan M(179), Francis JM(180), Franklin 
RC(181)(182), Fukumoto T(183)(184), Geberemariyam BS(185), Gebremariam H(87), 
Gebremedhin KB(186), Gebremeskel LG(143)(187), Gebremeskel GG(188)(189), 
Gebremichael B(190), Gedefaw GA(191)(192), Geta B(193), Getenet AB(194), 
Ghafourifard M(195), Ghamari F(196), Gheshlagh RG(197), Gholamian A(198)(199), 
Gilani SA(200)(201), Gill TK(202), Goudarzian AH(203), Goulart AC(204)(205), 
Grada A(206), Grivna M(207), Guimarães RA(208), Guo Y(136)(209), Gupta G(210), 
Haagsma JA(211), Hall BJ(212), Hamadeh RR(213), Hamidi S(214), Handiso DW(185), 
Haro JM(215)(216), Hasanzadeh A(217)(218), Hassan S(219), Hassanipour 
S(220)(221), Hassankhani H(222)(223), Hassen HY(224)(225), Havmoeller R(226), 
Hendrie D(56), Heydarpour F(227), Híjar M(228)(229), Ho HC(230), Hoang CL(231), 
Hole MK(232), Holla R(233), Hossain N(234)(235), Hosseinzadeh M(236)(237), 
Hostiuc S(238)(239), Hu G(240), Ibitoye SE(241), Ilesanmi OS(242), Inbaraj 
LR(243), Naghibi Irvani SS(244), Mofizul Islam M(245), Shariful Islam 
SM(246)(247), Ivers RQ(248), Jahani MA(249), Jakovljevic M(250), Jalilian 
F(251), Jayaraman S(252), Jayatilleke AU(253)(254), Jha RP(255), John-Akinola 
YO(256), Jonas JB(257)(258), Jones KM(259), Joseph N(260), Joukar F(220), 
Jozwiak JJ(261), Jungari SB(262), Jürisson M(263), Kabir A(264), Kahsay A(87), 
Kalankesh LR(265), Kalhor R(266)(267), Kamil TA(268), Kanchan T(269), Kapoor 
N(61), Karami M(270), Kasaeian A(271)(272), Kassaye HG(23), Kavetskyy 
T(273)(274), Kayode GA(275)(276), Keiyoro PN(277), Kelbore AG(278), Khader 
YS(279), Khafaie MA(280), Khalid N(281), Khalil IA(282), Khalilov R(283), Khan 
M(284), Khan EA(285), Khan J(286), Khanna T(287)(288), Khazaei S(270), Khazaie 
H(289), Khundkar R(290), Kiirithio DN(291), Kim YE(292), Kim YJ(293), Kim 
D(294), Kisa S(295), Kisa A(296), Komaki H(297)(298), Kondlahalli SKM(299), 
Koolivand A(300), Korshunov VA(106), Koyanagi A(301)(302), Kraemer 
MUG(303)(304), Krishan K(305), Defo BK(306)(307), Bicer BK(308)(309), Kugbey 
N(310)(311), Kumar N(312), Kumar M(313)(314), Kumar V(315), Kumar N(316), 
Kumaresh G(317), Lami FH(318), Lansingh VC(319)(320), Lasrado S(321), Latifi 
A(322), Lauriola P(323), Vecchia C(324), Leasher JL(325), Huey Lee SW(326)(327), 
Li S(136), Liu X(328), Lopez AD(1)(102)(329), Lotufo PA(330), Lyons RA(331), 
Machado DB(332)(333), Madadin M(334), Abd El Razek MM(335), Mahotra NB(336), 
Majdan M(337), Majeed A(338), Maled V(339)(340), Malta DC(341), Manafi 
N(342)(343), Manafi A(344), Manda AL(345), Manjunatha N(346), Mansour-Ghanaei 
F(220), Mansournia MA(347), Maravilla JC(348), Mason-Jones AJ(349), Masoumi 
SZ(350), Massenburg BB(130), Maulik PK(351)(352), Mehndiratta MM(353)(354), 
Melketsedik ZA(194), Memiah PTN(355), Mendoza W(356), Menezes RG(357), Mengesha 
MM(358), Meretoja TJ(359)(360), Meretoja A(361)(362), Merie HE(363), Mestrovic 
T(364)(365), Miazgowski B(366)(367), Miazgowski T(368), Miller TR(56)(369), Mini 
GK(370)(371), Mirica A(372)(373), Mirrakhimov EM(374)(375), Mirzaei-Alavijeh 
M(251), Mithra P(260), Moazen B(376)(377), Moghadaszadeh M(378)(379), Mohamadi 
E(380), Mohammad Y(381), Darwesh AM(382), Mohammadian-Hafshejani A(383), 
Mohammadpourhodki R(384), Mohammed S(75)(385), Mohammed JA(386), Mohebi 
F(171)(387), Mohseni Bandpei MA(388), Molokhia M(389), Monasta L(390), Moodley 
Y(391), Moradi M(392)(393), Moradi G(394)(395), Moradi-Lakeh M(396), Moradzadeh 
R(34), Morawska L(397), Velásquez IM(398), Morrison SD(130), Mossie TB(399), 
Muluneh AG(400), Musa KI(401), Mustafa G(402)(403), Naderi M(404), Nagarajan 
AJ(405)(406), Naik G(407), Naimzada MD(408)(409), Najafi F(410), Nangia V(411), 
Nascimento BR(412), Naserbakht M(413)(414), Nayak V(415), Nazari J(416)(417), 
Ndwandwe DE(418), Negoi I(419)(420), Ngunjiri JW(421), Nguyen TH(231), Nguyen 
CT(422), Nguyen DN(423)(424), Thi Nguyen HL(422), Nikbakhsh R(425)(426), 
Anggraini Ningrum DN(427)(428), Nnaji CA(418)(429), Ofori-Asenso R(430)(431), 
Ogbo FA(432), Oghenetega OB(433), Oh IH(434), Olagunju AT(435)(436), Olagunju 
TO(437), Bali AO(438), Onwujekwe OE(439), Orpana HM(440)(441), Ota E(442), 
Otstavnov N(408)(443), Otstavnov SS(408)(444), P A M(445), Padubidri JR(446), 
Pakhale S(447), Pakshir K(448), Panda-Jonas S(449), Park EK(450), Patel 
SK(451)(452), Pathak A(453)(454), Pati S(455), Paulos K(456), Peden 
AE(182)(457), Filipino Pepito VC(458), Pereira J(459), Phillips MR(460)(461), 
Polibin RV(462), Polinder S(211), Pourmalek F(463), Pourshams A(464), Poustchi 
H(464), Prakash S(465), Angga Pribadi DR(466), Puri P(286), Syed ZQ(91), Rabiee 
N(467), Rabiee M(468), Radfar A(469)(470), Rafay A(471), Rafiee A(472), Rafiei 
A(473)(474), Rahim F(475)(476), Rahimi S(477), Rahman MA(478)(479), 
Rajabpour-Sanati A(480), Rajati F(392), Rakovac I(481), Rao SJ(482), Rashedi 
V(483), Rastogi P(446), Rathi P(233), Rawaf S(338)(484), Rawal L(485), 
Rawassizadeh R(486), Renjith V(487), Resnikoff S(488)(489), Rezapour A(30), 
Ribeiro AI(490), Rickard J(491)(492), Rios González CM(493)(494), Roever L(495), 
Ronfani L(390), Roshandel G(464)(496), Saddik B(497), Safarpour H(498), 
Safdarian M(499)(500), Mohammad Sajadi S(501), Salamati P(500), Rashad Salem 
MR(502), Salem H(503), Salz I(504), Samy AM(505), Sanabria J(506)(507), Riera 
LS(508)(509), Santric Milicevic MM(510)(511), Sarker AR(512), Sarveazad A(513), 
Sathian B(514)(515), Sawhney M(516), Sayyah M(517), Schwebel DC(518), Seedat 
S(519), Senthilkumaran S(520), Seyedmousavi S(521), Sha F(522), Shaahmadi 
F(523), Shahabi S(524), Shaikh MA(525), Shams-Beyranvand M(526), Sheikh 
A(527)(528), Shigematsu M(529), Shin JI(530)(531), Shiri R(532), Siabani 
S(533)(534), Sigfusdottir ID(535)(536), Singh JA(537)(538), Singh PK(539), Sinha 
DN(540)(541), Soheili A(542)(543), Soriano JB(544)(545), Sorrie MB(546), Soyiri 
IN(547)(548), Stokes MA(549), Sufiyan MB(550), Sykes BL(551), Tabarés-Seisdedos 
R(552)(553), Tabb KM(554), Taddele BW(555), Tefera YM(556)(557), 
Tehrani-Banihashemi A(396)(558), Tekulu GH(559), Tesema Tesema AK(560), Tesfay 
BE(561), Thapar R(312), Titova MV(178)(562), Tlaye KG(563), Tohidinik 
HR(347)(564), Topor-Madry R(565)(566), Tran KB(567)(568), Tran BX(569), Tripathy 
JP(90), Tsai AC(570)(571), Tsatsakis A(572), Car LT(573), Ullah I(574)(575), 
Ullah S(97), Unnikrishnan B(260), Upadhyay E(576), Uthman OA(577), Valdez 
PR(578)(579), Vasankari TJ(580), Veisani Y(581), Venketasubramanian N(582)(583), 
Violante FS(584)(585), Vlassov V(586), Waheed Y(587), Wang YP(113), Wiangkham 
T(588), Wolde HF(400), Woldeyes DH(589), Wondmeneh TG(386), Wondmieneh 
AB(186)(590), Wu AM(591), Wyper GMA(592), Yadav R(286), Yadollahpour A(593), 
Yano Y(594), Yaya S(595), Yazdi-Feyzabadi V(596)(597), Ye P(598), Yip 
P(599)(600), Yisma E(601), Yonemoto N(602), Yoon SJ(292), Youm Y(603), Younis 
MZ(604)(605), Yousefi Z(606)(607), Yu C(608)(609), Yu Y(610), Moghadam 
TZ(30)(611), Zaidi Z(612), Zaman SB(132)(613), Zamani M(614), Zandian 
H(611)(615), Zarei F(616), Zhang ZJ(617), Zhang Y(618)(619), Ziapour A(533), 
Zodpey S(620), Dandona R(1)(329)(621), Dharmaratne SD(1)(329)(622), Hay 
SI(1)(329), Mokdad AH(1)(329), Pigott DM(1)(329), Reiner RC(1)(329), Vos 
T(1)(329).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Cairo University, Cairo, Egypt.
(3)Neuroscience Research Center, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, 
Isfahan, Iran.
(4)Department of Public Health, Ministry of Health, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.
(6)Biostatistics and Health Informatics, Madda Walabu University, Bale Robe, 
Ethiopia.
(7)Radiotherapy Center, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(8)Department of Public Health, Debre Berhan University, Debre Berhan, Ethiopia.
(9)Cardiovascular Medicine Department, Ain Shams University, Abbasia, Egypt.
(10)Department of Medicine, University College Hospital, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(11)Sport Science Department, University of Extremadura, Badajoz, Spain.
(12)Social Behavioral Research Branch, National Institute of Health, Bethesda, 
MD, USA.
(13)Cancer Prevention and Control, Georgetown University, Washington, DC, USA.
(14)School of Medicine, Center for Politics, Population and Health Research, 
National Autonomous University of Mexico, Mexico City, Mexico.
(15)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, Southeast University 
Nanjing, Nanjing, China.
(16)Microbiology Department, Hazara University, Mansehra, Pakistan.
(17)Department of Epidemiology, Jimma University, Jimma, Ethiopia.
(18)James P Grant School of Public Health, BRAC University, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(19)Health Systems and Population Studies Division, International Centre for 
Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(20)Higher National School of Veterinary Medicine, Algiers, Algeria.
(21)Evidence Based Practice Center, Mayo Clinic Foundation for Medical Education 
and Research, Rochester, MN, USA.
(22)Department of Computer Sciences, Imam Abdulrehman Bin Faisal University, 
Dammam, Saudi Arabia.
(23)Department of Pharmacy, Adigrat University, Adigrat, Ethiopia.
(24)Medicine and Health Science, Arba Minch University, Arba Minch, Ethiopia.
(25)Midwifery Department, Arba Minch University, Injbara, Ethiopia.
(26)Department of Population Health Research, King Abdullah International 
Medical Research Center, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(27)Medical Technical Institute, Erbil Polytechnic University, Erbil, Iraq.
(28)Department of Information Systems, College of Economics and Political 
Science, Sultan Qaboos University, Muscat, Oman.
(29)Department of Health Care Management and Economics, Urmia University of 
Medical Science, Urmia, Iran.
(30)Health Management and Economics Research Center, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(31)Health Economics Department, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(32)Department of Health Policy and Management, Kuwait University, Safat, 
Kuwait.
(33)International Centre for Casemix and Clinical Coding, National University of 
Malaysia, Bandar Tun Razak, Malaysia.
(34)Department of Epidemiology, Arak University of Medical Sciences, Arak, Iran.
(35)Physiotherapy Department, The University of Jordan, Amman, Jordan.
(36)King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(37)Clinical Practice Guidelines Unit, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi 
Arabia.
(38)Alexandria Center for Evidence-Based Clinical Practice Guidelines, 
Alexandria University, Alexandria, Egypt.
(39)Carol Davila University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania.
(40)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Health Promotion Research 
Center, Zahedan, Iran.
(41)Department of Health Policy and Administration, University of the 
Philippines Manila, Manila, Philippines.
(42)Department of Applied Social Sciences, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, 
Hong Kong, China.
(43)Department of Parasitology, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, 
Iran.
(44)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Iranshahr University of Medical 
Sciences, Iranshahr, Iran.
(45)Department of Sociology and Social Work, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science 
and Technology, Kumasi, Ghana.
(46)Center for International Health, Ludwig Maximilians University, Munich, 
Germany.
(47)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Birjand University of Medical 
Sciences, Birjand, Iran.
(48)Department of Health Promotion and Education, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(49)School of Health Sciences, Birmingham City University, Birmingham, UK.
(50)Regional Centre for the Analysis of Data on Occupational and Work-related 
Injuries and Diseases, Local Health Unit Tuscany Centre, Florence, Italy.
(51)School of Science and Health, Western Sydney University, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(52)Oral Health Services, Sydney Local Health District, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(53)Plastic Surgery Department, University of Texas, Houston, TX, USA.
(54)The Judith Lumley Centre, La Trobe University, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.
(55)General Office for Research and Technological Transfer, Peruvian National 
Institute of Health, Lima, Peru.
(56)School of Public Health, Curtin University, Perth, Western Australia, 
Australia.
(57)Department of Health Policy Planning and Management, University of Health 
and Allied Sciences, Ho, Ghana.
(58)Department of Environmental Health Engineering, Hamadan University of 
Medical Sciences, Hamadan, Iran.
(59)Public Health Risk Sciences Division, Public Health Agency of Canada, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(60)Department of Nutritional Sciences, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(61)Department of Forensic Science, Government Institute of Forensic Science, 
Nagpur, India.
(62)Biochemistry Unit, Universiti Sultan Zainal Abidin, Kuala Terengganu, 
Malaysia.
(63)School of Health Sciences, Univeristi Sultan Zainal Abidin, Kuala 
Terengganu, Malaysia.
(64)Institute of Health Management Research, Indian Institute of Health 
Management Research University, Jaipur, India.
(65)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(66)Health Policy and Management Department, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(67)Department of Demography, University of Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands.
(68)Population Research Centre, Institute for Social and Economic Change, 
Bengaluru, India.
(69)Department of Hypertension, Medical University of Lodz, Lodz, Poland.
(70)Polish Mothers' Memorial Hospital Research Institute, Lodz, Poland.
(71)School of Health Sciences, Walden University, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(72)Department of Noncommunicable Diseases, Bangladesh University of Health 
Sciences (BUHS), Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(73)Department of Research, Public Health Perspective Nepal, Pokhara-Lekhnath 
Metropolitan City, Nepal.
(74)School of Psychology, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(75)Heidelberg Institute of Global Health (HIGH), Heidelberg University, 
Heidelberg, Germany.
(76)T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA.
(77)Occupational Health Department, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, 
Kermanshah, Iran.
(78)Health Human Resources Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(79)Department of Psychiatry, Charles R. Drew University of Medicine and 
Science, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(80)Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences, David Geffen School of 
Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(81)Department of Community Medicine, Gandhi Medical College Bhopal, Bhopal, 
India.
(82)Jazan University, Jazan, Saudi Arabia.
(83)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Lorestan University of 
Medical Sciences, Khorramabad, Iran.
(84)Psychiatry Department, Bahir Dar University, Bhair Dar, Ethiopia.
(85)Nuffield Department of Population Health, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(86)Department of Internal Medicine, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(87)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Mekelle University, Mekelle, 
Ethiopia.
(88)Department of Internal Medicine, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, 
United Arab Emirates.
(89)Social and Clinical Pharmacy, Charles University, Hradec Kralova, Czech 
Republic.
(90)Department of Community Medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Nagpur, India.
(91)Department of Community Medicine, Datta Meghe Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Wardha, India.
(92)Internal Medicine Department, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 
Springfield, MA, USA.
(93)Department of Statistical and Computational Genomics, National Institute of 
Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani, India.
(94)Department of Statistics, University of Calcutta, Kolkata, India.
(95)Centre for Global Child Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(96)Centre of Excellence in Women and Child Health, Aga Khan University, 
Karachi, Pakistan.
(97)Institute of Soil and Environmental Sciences, University of Agriculture, 
Faisalabad, Pakistan.
(98)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Babol University of Medical 
Sciences, Babol, Iran.
(99)Department of Internal Medicine, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, 
Mangalore, India.
(100)Department of Epidemiology and Psychosocial Reseach, Ramón de la Fuente 
Muñiz National Institute of Psychiatry, Mexico City, Mexico.
(101)Centre for Adolescent Health, Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(102)School of Population and Global Health, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.
(103)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Catania, 
Catania, Italy.
(104)Transport and Road Safety (TARS) Research Department, University of New 
South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(105)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Georgetown University, Washington DC, 
USA.
(106)Department of Epidemiology and Evidence Based Medicine, I.M. Sechenov First 
Moscow State Medical University, Moscow, Russia.
(107)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK.
(108)Research Department, Golden Community, Kathmandu, Nepal.
(109)Centre for Population Health Sciences, Nanyang Technological University, 
Singapore, Singapore.
(110)Global eHealth Unit, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(111)Department of Population and Health, Metropolitan Autonomous University, 
Mexico City, Mexico.
(112)Research Unit on Applied Molecular Biosciences (UCIBIO), University of 
Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(113)Department of Psychiatry, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(114)Colombian National Health Observatory, National Institute of Health, 
Bogota, Colombia.
(115)Epidemiology and Public Health Evaluation Group, National University of 
Colombia, Bogota, Colombia.
(116)Primary Care Services Area, Central Health Directorate, Region Friuli 
Venezia Giulia, Trieste, Italy.
(117)Department of Medicine (DAME), University of Udine, Udine, Italy.
(118)National School of Public Health, Carlos III Health Institute, Madrid, 
Spain.
(119)Clinical Epidemiology Program, Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, 
Ontario, Canada.
(120)Mary MacKillop Institute for Health Research, Australian Catholic 
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(121)School of Public Health, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(122)Institute of Applied Health Research, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, 
UK.
(123)Swedish Neuroscience Institute, Swedish Brain and Spine Specialists, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(124)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(125)Department of Public Health, Texila American University, Georgetown, 
Guyana.
(126)2nd Department of Ophthalmology, University of Athens, Haidari, Greece.
(127)Ophthalmology Independent Consultant, Athens, Greece.
(128)Pediatrics Department, Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA.
(129)Neonatology Department, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(130)Department of Surgery, Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, 
University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(131)Department of Biochemistry and Biomedical Science, Seoul National 
University Hospital, Seoul, South Korea.
(132)Maternal and Child Health Division, International Centre for Diarrhoeal 
Disease Research, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(133)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of South Carolina, 
Columbia, SC, USA.
(134)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Christian Medical College and Hospital 
(CMC), Vellore, India.
(135)Faculty of Biology, Hanoi National University of Education, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(136)School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(137)Centro Hospitalar Universitário do Porto - Serviço de Oftalmologia, 
University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(138)Department of Environmental Health, Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, 
Dammam, Saudi Arabia.
(139)Toxoplasmosis Research Center, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, 
Sari, Iran.
(140)Population and Development, Facultad Latinoamericana de Ciencias Sociales 
Mexico, Mexico City, Mexico.
(141)Australian Institute for Suicide Research and Prevention, Griffith 
University, Mount Gravatt, Queensland, Australia.
(142)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences, Bahir Dar University, Bahir Dar, 
Ethiopia.
(143)School of Pharmacy, Aksum University, Aksum, Ethiopia.
(144)Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(145)Department of Global Health and Infection, Brighton and Sussex Medical 
School, Brighton, UK.
(146)School of Public Health, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(147)Division of Cardiology, Atlanta Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Decatur, 
GA, USA.
(148)Department of Epidemiology, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran.
(149)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(150)Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(151)Center of Excellence in Public Health Nutrition, Nguyen Tat Thanh 
University, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
(152)School of Health and Biomedical Sciences, Royal Melbourne Institute of 
Technology University, Bundoora, Victoria, Australia.
(153)Sydney School of Public Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(154)Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.
(155)Public Health Department, Hawassa University, Hawassa, Ethiopia.
(156)Curtin University, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.
(157)Department of Global Health and Social Medicine, Harvard University, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(158)Department of Social Services, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA.
(159)Department of Statistics, Debre Markos University, Debre Markos, Ethiopia.
(160)Department of Public Health Sciences, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(161)World Health Programme, Université du Québec en Abitibi-Témiscamingue, 
Rouyn-Noranda, Quebec, Canada.
(162)Department of Pathology, Stavanger University Hospital, Stavanger, Norway.
(163)Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway.
(164)Department of Clinical Pathology, Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egypt.
(165)Multiple Sclerosis Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(166)Epidemiology and Population Health, York University, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.
(167)Faculty of Health Sciences, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, British 
Columbia, Canada.
(168)Biology Department, Salahaddin University-Erbil, Erbil, Iraq.
(169)Department of Biology and Biotechnology "Lazzaro Spallanzani", University 
of Pavia, Pavia, Italy.
(170)Department of Psychology, Federal University of Sergipe, Sao Cristovao, 
Brazil.
(171)Non-communicable Diseases Research Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(172)Department of Neurobiology, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(173)Division of Neurology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(174)REQUIMTE/LAQV, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(175)Research Centre on Public Health (CESP), University of Milan Bicocca, 
Monza, Italy.
(176)Department of Population Medicine and Health Services Research, Bielefeld 
University, Bielefeld, Germany.
(177)Department of Child Dental Health, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, 
Nigeria.
(178)Timiryazev Institute of Plant Physiology, Russian Academy of Sciences, 
Moscow, Russia.
(179)Abadan School of Medical Sciences, Abadan University of Medical Sciences, 
Abadan, Iran.
(180)Department of Family Medicine and Primary Care, University of the 
Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(181)College of Public Health, Medical and Veterinary Science, James Cook 
University, Douglas, Queensland, Australia.
(182)Royal Life Saving Society, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(183)Department of Dermatology, Kobe University, Kobe, Japan.
(184)Gene Expression & Regulation Program, The Wistar Institute, Philadelphia, 
PA, USA.
(185)Public Health Department, Madda Walabu University, Bale Robe, Ethiopia.
(186)Department of Nursing and Midwifery, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, 
Ethiopia.
(187)Pharmacy Department, Mekelle University, Mekelle, Ethiopia.
(188)Department of Nursing, Aksum University, Aksum, Ethiopia.
(189)Department of Nursing, Mekelle University, Mekelle, Ethiopia.
(190)Public Health, Haramaya University, Harar, Ethiopia.
(191)Bahir Dar University, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia.
(192)Haramaya University, Dire Dawa, Ethiopia.
(193)Department of Pharmacy, Wollo University, Dessie, Ethiopia.
(194)Department of Nursing, Arba Minch University, Arba Minch, Ethiopia.
(195)Department of Medical Surgery, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran.
(196)Occupational Health Department, Arak University of Medical Sciences, Arak, 
Iran.
(197)Department of Nursing and Midwifery, Kurdistan University of Medical 
Sciences, Sanandaj, Iran.
(198)Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran.
(199)Young Researchers and Elite Club, Islamic Azad University, Rasht, Iran.
(200)Faculty of Allied Health Sciences, The University of Lahore, Lahore, 
