polyunsaturated fatty acids (omega-3 LCPUFAs) docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and 
eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) are known to reduce inflammation and promote its 
resolution, suggesting a beneficial role in various therapeutic areas. An expert 
group reviewed the data on omega-3 LCPUFAs in specific patient populations and 
medical conditions. Evidence for benefits in cognitive health, age- and 
disease-related decline in muscle mass, cancer treatment, surgical patients and 
critical illness was identified. Use of DHA and EPA in some conditions is 
already included in some relevant guidelines. However, it is important to note 
that data on the effects of omega-3 LCPUFAs are still inconsistent in many areas 
(e.g., cognitive decline) due to a range of factors that vary amongst the trials 
performed to date; these factors include dose, timing and duration; baseline 
omega-3 LCPUFA status; and intake of other nutrients. Well-designed intervention 
studies are required to optimize the effects of DHA and EPA in specific patient 
populations and to develop more personalized strategies for their use.

DOI: 10.3390/nu12092555
PMCID: PMC7551800
PMID: 32846900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: B.T. and I.W. are employed by DSM Nutritional 
Products Ltd.; M.E. acts as an advisor for DSM, received travel reimbursement 
from DSM and is a member of the Scientific Board of PM International and 
President of the Gesellschaft für angewandte Vitaminforschung; A.L. received 
consulting fees from BBraun, DSM, Nutricia and Smartfish and received honoraria 
for independent lectures from Abbott, Baxter, BBraun, Fresenius Kabi, Nestlé 
Health Science, Nutricia and Smartfish; Y.R. received travel reimbursement from 
DSM; AW receives speaker fees from Baxter Germany, Berlin Chemie, BBraun 
Melsungen AG, DSM, Ethicon, Falk Foundation Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH, 
Medtronic and research grants from Baxter, Danone and Mucos; P.C.C. acts as a 
consultant for DSM, BASF, Danone/Nutricia, Cargill, Smartfish and Fresenius 
Kabi. A.D.S. has no conflict to declare.


594. Molecules. 2020 Aug 24;25(17):3837. doi: 10.3390/molecules25173837.

Hypobaric Packaging Prolongs the Shelf Life of Refrigerated Black Truffles 
(Tuber melanosporum).

Savini S(1), Longo E(2), Servili A(3), Murolo S(3), Mozzon M(3), Romanazzi G(3), 
Boselli E(2).

Author information:
(1)Chemical Safety Department, Stazione Sperimentale per l'Industria delle 
Conserve Alimentari, Via F. Tanara, 31/A, 43100 Parma, Italy.
(2)Faculty of Science and Technology, Free University of Bolzano, Piazza 
Università, 5, 39100 Bolzano, Italy.
(3)Department of Agricultural, Food, and Environmental Sciences, Marche 
Polytechnic University, Via Brecce Bianche, 60131 Ancona, Italy.

Black truffle (Tuber melanosporum Vitt.) is a fine agro-food product known for 
its unique aroma and very limited shelf life (maximum of 5-7 days, room 
temperature). Hypobaric packaging at 30 kPa, a mix of 1% O2/99% N2, and 40% 
CO2/60% N2 were studied to prolong the shelf life of black truffle at 4 °C in 
sealed polypropylene vessels, compared to normal atmosphere. Epiphytic microbial 
population, firmness, weight loss, CO2 formation, and sensory properties were 
monitored weekly up to 35 days of storage and were related to the volatile 
profile. Principal components analysis revealed good correlation between the 
storage time and the decrease of firmness, and the increase of the microbial 
count and CO2 production. Only truffles stored under hypobaric conditions showed 
an acceptable quality after 14 days storage. Hypobaric packaging is a cheap 
strategy to prevent the swelling of vessels caused by respiration and can reduce 
the deviation from the high-quality level of the fresh product from one to at 
least two weeks.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25173837
PMCID: PMC7504210
PMID: 32846927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


595. Food Sci Technol Int. 2021 Apr;27(3):264-275. doi: 10.1177/1082013220950068.
 Epub 2020 Aug 26.

Rheological characteristics of wheat-chickpea composite flour doughs and effect 
of Amla powder (Phyllanthus emblica L.) addition on the functional properties of 
bread.

Zafar TA(1), Allafi AR(1), Alkandari D(1), Al-Othman A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, College of Life Sciences, Kuwait 
University, Safat, Kuwait.
(2)Department of Computer Science, Kuwait Institute for Scientific Research, 
Safat, Kuwait.

Bread is a staple food for majority of the people worldwide, but it has a high 
glycemic effect. Substituting wheat flour partly with chickpea flour and the 
presence of bran is suggested to improve the glycemic effect of bread; however, 
the non-gluten substances in wheat flour adversely affect dough rheology. The 
addition of amla powder was tested on the rheological properties of 
wheat-chickpea flour composite doughs; also, the physical and sensory qualities 
of bread made thereof. The results showed that when the level of replacement of 
refined white flour (WF) or whole wheat flour (WWF) with chickpea flour was 
increased from 0 to 40%, it significantly affected the rheological properties 
and functionality of dough. A decreased farinograph water absorption, higher 
mixing tolerance index (i.e., weakening of dough), decreased resistance to 
extension, and lower ratio numbers were obtained with some differences between 
WF and WWF at the higher level of chickpea flour substitution. The addition of 
amla powder to WF: chickpea flour (60:40) blends reduced the angle of ascending 
(from 7.0 ± 0.7 to 6.0 ± 0.7) and angel of descending (from 3.2 ± 0.21 to 
2.4 ± 0.2), indicating the slight tightening of gluten leading to dough 
breakdown. The addition of amla powder improved the mixing characteristics of 
the composite flour doughs, as well as the physical and sensory qualities of the 
bread. In conclusion, amla powder can help overcome the deleterious impact of 
adding chickpea flour to WF or WWF for producing good quality pan bread for 
people with type-2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1177/1082013220950068
PMID: 32847395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Thyroid. 2021 Mar;31(3):494-508. doi: 10.1089/thy.2020.0062. Epub 2020 Oct
21.

Benefits and Harms of a Prevention Program for Iodine Deficiency Disorders: 
Predictions of the Decision-Analytic EUthyroid Model.

Schaffner M(1), Mühlberger N(1), Conrads-Frank A(1), Qerimi Rushaj V(1)(2), 
Sroczynski G(1), Koukkou E(3), Heinsbaek Thuesen B(4), Völzke H(5), Oberaigner 
W(1), Siebert U(1)(6)(7), Rochau U(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, Medical Decision Making and Health Technology 
Assessment, Department of Public Health, Health Services Research and Health 
Technology Assessment, UMIT - University for Health Sciences, Medical 
Informatics and Technology, Hall i.T., Austria.
(2)Faculty of Pharmacy, School of PhD Studies, Ss. Cyril and Methodius 
University in Skopje, Skopje, Macedonia.
(3)Department of Endocrinology, University of Patras, Patras, Greece.
(4)Centre for Clinical Research and Prevention, Capital Region of Denmark, 
Glostrup, Denmark.
(5)Institute for Community Medicine, University Medicine Greifswald, Greifswald, 
Germany.
(6)Center for Health Decision Science, Department of Health Policy and 
Management, Harvard Chan School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(7)Institute for Technology Assessment and Department of Radiology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.

Background: Iodine deficiency is one of the most prevalent causes of 
intellectual disability and can lead to impaired thyroid function and other 
iodine deficiency disorders (IDDs). Despite progress made on eradicating iodine 
deficiency in the last decades in Europe, IDDs are still prevalent. Currently, 
evidence-based information on the benefit/harm balance of IDD prevention in 
Europe is lacking. We developed a decision-analytic model and conducted a public 
health decision analysis for the long-term net benefit of a mandatory IDD 
prevention program for the German population with moderate iodine deficiency, as 
a case example for a European country. Methods: We developed a decision-analytic 
Markov model simulating the incidence and consequences of IDDs in the absence or 
presence of a mandatory IDD prevention program (iodine fortification of salt) in 
an open population with current demographic characteristics in Germany and with 
moderate ID. We collected data on the prevalence, incidence, mortality, and 
quality of life from European studies for all health states of the model. Our 
primary net-benefit outcome was quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) predicted 
over a period of 120 years. In addition, we calculated incremental life years 
and disease events over time. We performed a systematic and comprehensive 
uncertainty assessment using multiple deterministic one-way sensitivity 
analyses. Results: In the base-case analysis, the IDD prevention program is more 
beneficial than no prevention, both in terms of QALYs and life years. Health 
gains predicted for the open cohort over a time horizon of 120 years for the 
German population (82.2 million inhabitants) were 33 million QALYs and 5 million 
life years. Nevertheless, prevention is not beneficial for all individuals since 
it causes additional hyperthyroidism (2.7 million additional cases). Results for 
QALY gains were stable in sensitivity analyses. Conclusions: IDD prevention via 
mandatory iodine fortification of salt increases quality-adjusted life 
expectancy in a European population with moderate ID, and is therefore 
beneficial on a population level. However, further ethical aspects should be 
considered before implementing a mandatory IDD prevention program. Costs for IDD 
prevention and treatment should be determined to evaluate the cost effectiveness 
of IDD prevention.

DOI: 10.1089/thy.2020.0062
PMID: 32847437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Ir J Psychol Med. 2022 Jun;39(2):185-195. doi: 10.1017/ipm.2020.90. Epub
2020  Aug 27.

Experience of discrimination and engagement with mental health and other 
services by Travellers in Ireland: findings from the All Ireland Traveller 
Health Study (AITHS).

Quirke B(1), Heinen M(1), Fitzpatrick P(1)(2), McKey S(3), Malone KM(3), 
Kelleher C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Physiotherapy and Sports Science, University College 
Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(2)Department of Preventive Medicine and Health Promotion, St. Vincent's 
University Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and Mental Health Research, St. 
Vincent's University Hospital and University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.

OBJECTIVES: Irish Travellers are an indigenous ethnic minority population in 
Ireland, with poor life expectancy. This study aims to identify factors 
associated with reported discrimination and how this affects their experiences 
of accessing and quality of health services, including mental health.
METHODS: The All Ireland Traveller Health Study was a cross-sectional census 
study in 2010. All Traveller families completed a survey questionnaire (n = 
6540), and at random an adult selected from the family completed either a health 
status (health status study = 1547) or health services utilisation survey (HSU = 
1576). Experience of discrimination (EOD) from the census was analysed in 
relation to HSU data on services used in the previous 12 months and reported 
experiences of access and quality of that health service. Census variables were 
analysed in relation to EOD and perceived discrimination (PD).
RESULTS: In the final models, EOD and PD were significantly associated with 
socio-demographic, socio-cultural and living conditions. The multivariate odds 
of reporting EOD ranged from OR 1.84 to 2.13 and were significant for those 
reporting worse opportunities in accessing health services, mental health (p = 
0.001), hospitals (p < 0.001) and public health nurses (p < 0.001). The 
multivariate odds of reporting EOD ranged from OR 1.95 to 2.71 and remained 
significant for those who reported they had poorer experiences than others when 
using health services, quality of experience (OR 2.18, p =< 0.001), trust in 
providers (OR 1.95, p =< 0.001) and appropriate information (OR 2.71, p =< 
0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Travellers experience high levels of discrimination which 
negatively affects their engagement with health services. Culturally competent 
services need to be developed.

DOI: 10.1017/ipm.2020.90
PMID: 32847636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. BJPsych Bull. 2020 Oct;44(5):213-218. doi: 10.1192/bjb.2020.88.

Mental health, smoking and poverty: benefits of supporting smokers to quit.

Salt V(1), Osborne C(1).

Author information:
(1)Action on Smoking and Health, UK.

Smoking rates among people with common mental health conditions remain around 
50% higher than those in the wider population; this is a significant cause of 
the 10-20-year reduced life expectancy of people with mental health conditions. 
However, the effects of smoking go far beyond physical health. Research 
estimates that smokers with mental health conditions could be spending as much 
as £2200 a year on tobacco, pushing an estimated 130 000 people with a common 
mental disorder into poverty. The Government has set a target for England to be 
smokefree by 2030; however, without a dramatic increase in support, smokers with 
mental health conditions risk being left behind. Action on Smoking and Health 
provides the secretariat for the Mental Health & Smoking Partnership. The 
Partnership aims to reduce the inequality in smoking rates between people with 
mental health conditions and the wider population. It brings together Royal 
Colleges, third-sector organisations, trade unions and academia to review 
progress and highlight areas for further action.

DOI: 10.1192/bjb.2020.88
PMCID: PMC7525592
PMID: 32847647

Conflict of interest statement: None.


599. Diabetes Spectr. 2020 Aug;33(3):217-227. doi: 10.2337/ds20-0013.

Challenges and Strategies for Diabetes Management in Community-Living Older 
Adults.

Sinclair AJ(1)(2), Abdelhafiz AH(3).

Author information:
(1)Foundation for Diabetes Research in Older People, Diabetes Frail Ltd., 
Droitwich Spa, UK.
(2)Kings College, London, UK.
(3)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Rotherham General Hospital, Rotherham, UK.

The prevalence of diabetes is increasing, especially in older people, mainly 
because of an increase in life expectancy. The number of comorbidities also 
increases with increasing age, leading to a unique diabetes phenotype in old age 
that includes vascular disease, physical and neuropathic complications, and 
mental dysfunction. These three categories of complications appear to have a 
synergistic effect that can lead to a vicious cycle of deterioration into 
disability. Early assessment and appropriate, timely interventions may delay 
adverse outcomes. However, this complex phenotype constitutes a great challenge 
for health care professionals. This article reviews the complex diabetes 
phenotype in old age and explores management strategies that are predominantly 
based on the overall functional status of patients within this heterogeneous 
age-group.

© 2020 by the American Diabetes Association.

DOI: 10.2337/ds20-0013
PMCID: PMC7428661
PMID: 32848343


600. Front Psychol. 2020 Jul 28;11:1904. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2020.01904.
eCollection  2020.

Physical Literacy - A Journey of Individual Enrichment: An Ecological Dynamics 
Rationale for Enhancing Performance and Physical Activity in All.

Rudd JR(1)(2), Pesce C(3), Strafford BW(4), Davids K(4).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for Sport and Exercise Sciences, Liverpool John Moores 
University, Liverpool, United Kingdom.
(2)Institute for Health and Sport (IHES), Footscray Park Campus, Victoria 
University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(3)Department of Movement, Human and Health Sciences, University of Rome "Foro 
Italico", Rome, Italy.
(4)Sport and Human Performance Research Group, Faculty of Health and Wellbeing, 
Sheffield Hallam University, Sheffield, United Kingdom.

Erratum in
    Front Psychol. 2020 Dec 11;11:633513.

Internationally, governments, health and exercise practitioners are struggling 
with the threat posed by physical inactivity leading to worsening outcomes in 
health and life expectancy and the associated high economic costs. To meet this 
challenge it is important to enhance the quality, and quantity, of participation 
in sports and physical activity throughout the life course to sustain healthy 
and active lifestyles. This paper supports the need to develop a physically 
literate population, who meaningfully engage in play and physical activity 
through the development of functional movement skills in enriched environments. 
This is a shift away from reductionist approaches to physical activity 
engagement and maintenance to an ecological dynamics approach that focuses on 
enrichment to support functional movement skill learning and development. This 
is an embedded approach to physical literacy that allows learners the space and 
time to "explore-discover" (ecological psychology) within environments that will 
lead to a concomitant self-organization of highly intricate network of 
co-dependent sub-systems (anatomical, respiratory, circulatory, nervous, and 
perceptual-cognitive) resulting in functional movement solutions for the 
performance task and enduring positive adaptations to subsystems supporting the 
physical literacy journey across the life course. "Explore-discover adapt" is at 
the heart of two contemporary learner-centered pedagogies: Non-linear Pedagogy 
(NLP) and the Athletic Skills Model (ASM). Both emphasize the importance of 
enrichment experiences from an early age, and throughout life course, and both 
appreciate the inherent complexity involved in the learning process and the 
importance of designing a rich and varied range of athletic, participatory 
experiences that will support the embedded development of physical literacy 
leading to ongoing physical activity for all. The final part of this paper will 
demonstrate the potential of an ecological dynamics approach for supporting the 
concept of physical literacy by providing a roadmap for a reliable and valid 
measurement of physical literacy when considered from both an ecological 
dynamics perspective and the phenomenology understanding of physical literacy.

Copyright © 2020 Rudd, Pesce, Strafford and Davids.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2020.01904
PMCID: PMC7399225
PMID: 32849114601. Front Neurol. 2020 Jul 31;11:729. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2020.00729. eCollection
 2020.

Googling the Lifetime Risk of Stroke Around the World.

Phan TG(1)(2), Haseeb A(1)(2), Beare R(3)(4)(5), Srikanth V(3)(4), Thrift AG(2), 
Ma H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Monash Health, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(2)Stroke and Aging Research Group, Medicine, School of Clinical Sciences, 
Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(3)Department of Medicine, Frankston Hospital, Peninsula Health, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.
(4)Central Clinical School, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(5)Developmental Imaging, Murdoch Children's Research Institute, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.

Objective: We aimed to utilize the data on lifetime risk of stroke, from Global 
Burden of Disease (GBD) 2016, in combination with open data platforms to create 
an interactive map for use by clinicians and members of the public. Further, we 
explore the relationship between life expectancy and lifetime risk of stroke. 
Design: Enhancing visual display of large volume of data. Setting: Worldwide 
estimates of the lifetime risk of stroke obtained from the GBD 2016. 
Participants: None. Intervention: None. Methods: Data were extracted from a 
portable document format (pdf) copy of the GBD article on the lifetime risk of 
stroke and exported into the R programming environment (version 3.4.4). These 
data were merged with (i) the world map boundary, (ii) open data platforms from 
the World Bank (life expectancy and income), and (ii) open data from the United 
Nation Population Prospects 2017. Further we plotted the relationship between 
the adjusted lifetime risk of stroke and life expectancy. Outcomes: The map of 
the global burden of stroke shows a higher lifetime risk of stroke among 
high-income countries than in low-income countries 
(https://gntem3.shinyapps.io/strokeglobal/). The greatest risk was among 
upper-middle-income countries such as China and Eastern and Central European 
countries such as Latvia and Romania. The lifetime risk of stroke increased in 
countries with higher life expectancy (β = 0.48 ± 0.047, 95% confidence interval 
= 0.390-0.574, R 2 = 0.38, p < 0.01). Conclusion: Overall life expectancy is a 
major driver of the lifetime risk of stroke. The interactive map enables 
clinicians to search information about the lifetime risk of stroke interactively 
and navigate by zooming in and out, while still retaining high resolution.

Copyright © 2020 Phan, Haseeb, Beare, Srikanth, Thrift and Ma.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2020.00729
PMCID: PMC7411741
PMID: 32849202


602. Front Immunol. 2020 Jul 28;11:1498. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.01498.
eCollection  2020.

FVIII Immunogenicity-Bioinformatic Approaches to Evaluate Inhibitor Risk in 
Non-severe Hemophilia A.

Hart DP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Barts and The London School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Blizard Institute, Queen Mary University of London, London, United 
Kingdom.

The life-long inhibitor risk in non-severe hemophilia A has been an important 
clinical and research focus in recent years. Non-severe hemophilia A is most 
commonly caused by point mutation, missense F8 genotypes, of which over 500 
variants are described. The immunogenic potential of just a single amino acid 
change within a complex 2,332 amino acid protein is an important reminder of the 
challenges of protein replacement therapies in diverse, global populations. 
Although some F8 genotypes have been identified as "high risk" mutations in 
non-severe hemophilia A (e.g., R593C), this is likely, in part at least, a 
reporting bias and oversimplification of the underlying immunological mechanism. 
Bioinformatic approaches offer a strategy to dissect the contribution of F8 
genotype in the context of the wider HLA diversity through which antigenic 
peptides will necessarily be presented. Extensive modeling of all permutations 
of FVIII-derived fifteen-mer peptides straddling all reported F8 genotype 
positions demonstrate the likely heterogeneity of peptide binding affinity to 
different HLA II grooves. For the majority of F8 genotypes it is evident that 
inhibitor risk prediction is dependent on the combination of F8 genotype and 
available HLA II. Only a minority of FVIII-derived peptides are predicted to 
bind to all candidate HLA molecules. In silico predictions still over call the 
risk of inhibitor occurrence, suggestive of mechanisms of "protection" against 
clinically meaningful inhibitor events. The structural homology between FVIII 
and FV provides an attractive mechanism by which some F8 genotypes may be 
afforded co-incidental tolerance through homology of FV and FVIII primary amino 
sequence. In silico strategies enable the extension of this hypothesis to 
analyse the extent to which co-incidental cross-matching exists between 
FVIII-derived primary peptide sequences and any other protein in the entire 
human proteome and thus potential central tolerance. This review of 
complimentary in vitro, in silico, and clinical epidemiology data documents 
incremental insights into immunological mechanism of inhibitor occurrence in 
non-severe hemophilia A over the last decade. However, complex questions remain 
about antigenic processing and presentation to truly understand and predict an 
individual person with hemophilia risk of inhibitor occurrence.

Copyright © 2020 Hart.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.01498
PMCID: PMC7399083
PMID: 32849511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Front Oncol. 2020 Jul 30;10:1141. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2020.01141. eCollection 
2020.

Methylation-Induced Silencing of ALDH2 Facilitates Lung Adenocarcinoma Bone 
Metastasis by Activating the MAPK Pathway.

Yang M(1)(2)(3), Wang A(2)(3), Li C(2)(3)(4), Sun J(1)(2)(3), Yi G(2)(3), Cheng 
H(2)(3), Liu X(2)(3), Wang Z(1), Zhou Y(1), Yao G(1), Wang S(1), Liang R(2)(3), 
Li B(2)(3), Li D(2)(3), Zhao H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Oncology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University Affiliated 
Sixth People's Hospital, Shanghai, China.
(2)Shanghai Institute of Immunology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Immunology and Microbiology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(4)Department of General Surgery, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, China.

Bone metastasis (BM) dramatically reduces the quality of life and life 
expectancy in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) patients. There is an urgent need to 
identify potential biomarkers for application in the treatment of this deadly 
disease. We compared patient BM, LUAD, and para-LUAD tissues using proteomic 
analysis and identified aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2), which can detoxify 
acetaldehyde to acetic acid, as one of the key regulators in lung tumor 
metastasis. Both the mRNA and protein levels of ALDH2 were significantly lower 
in tumor tissues than in normal tissues and were lowest in BM tissues with 
increased migratory capacity. Also, ALDH2 was upregulated following treatment 
with 5-azacitidine, a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor, in H1299, H460, and 
HCC827 cells. Further, we identified a potential methylated CpG island 3, with 
the longest methylated CpG island area in ALDH2, and performed bisulfite genomic 
sequencing of these sites. An average of 78.18% of the sites may be methylated 
in CpG island 3. Knockdown of DNA (cytosine-5)-methyltransferase 3A (DNMT3A) and 
methylated CpG binding protein 4 (MBD4) upregulated ALDH2 expression. ALDH2 
functions as a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) upstream to inhibit cell 
proliferation and migration, promote cell apoptosis, and alter the 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) by elevating E-cadherin and attenuating 
vimentin. Cell proliferation and migration were inhibited after the addition of 
the JNK inhibitor SP600125. In the multivariate analysis, M stage (p = 0.003), 
ALDH2 (p = 0.008), and phospho-c-Jun N-terminal kinase (p-JNK) (p = 0.027) 
expression were independent prognostic factors for overall survival in patients 
with BM. In vivo experiments also showed that ALDH2 expression could suppress 
tumor formation. In summary, we found that ALDH2 expression is a prognostic 
factor for BM in LUAD and that DNMT3A and MBD4 repression of ALDH2 via a 
MAPK-dependent pathway alters the EMT process, indicating that these proteins 
could act as potential biomarkers or therapeutic targets for LUAD metastasis.

Copyright © 2020 Yang, Wang, Li, Sun, Yi, Cheng, Liu, Wang, Zhou, Yao, Wang, 
Liang, Li, Li and Zhao.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2020.01141
PMCID: PMC7406638
PMID: 32850324


604. Front Public Health. 2020 Aug 7;8:291. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2020.00291. 
eCollection 2020.

Longevity and Economic Growth in China and India Using a Newly Developed 
Bootstrap ARDL Model.

Lin FL(1), Wang MC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Accounting, Chaoyang University of Technology, Taichung, 
Taiwan.
(2)Department of Finance, College of Management, Providence University, 
Taichung, Taiwan.

In this study, we use a recently developed Bootstrap ARDL model to examine the 
influence of longevity (life expectancy after giving birth) and alcohol 
consumption on economic progression (GDP) in both China and India during the 
years between 1992 and 2015. Empirical results have shown an extended link 
across economic development, longevity, and alcohol use in both China and India. 
The Granger causality test, derived from the Bootstrap ARDL model, demonstrates 
a unidirectional relationship between economic growth and longevity in China. 
However, a bidirectional causality exists between longevity and alcohol use in 
India. Results have important implications for Indian and Chinese governments' 
public health policies, focused on alcohol consumption reduction specifically, 
and population health generally.

Copyright © 2020 Lin and Wang.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2020.00291
PMCID: PMC7427201
PMID: 32850569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Front Cell Dev Biol. 2020 Jul 30;8:721. doi: 10.3389/fcell.2020.00721. 
eCollection 2020.

Uncoupling of DNA Replication and Centrosome Duplication Cycles Is a Primary 
Cause of Haploid Instability in Mammalian Somatic Cells.

Yoshizawa K(1), Yaguchi K(1), Uehara R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Life Science, Hokkaido University, Hokkaido, Japan.
(2)Faculty of Advanced Life Science, Hokkaido University, Hokkaido, Japan.

Mammalian haploid somatic cells are unstable and prone to diploidize, but the 
cause of haploid instability remains largely unknown. Previously, we found that 
mammalian haploid somatic cells suffer chronic centrosome loss stemming from the 
uncoupling of DNA replication and centrosome duplication cycles. However, the 
lack of methodology to restore the coupling between DNA replication and 
centrosome duplication has precluded us from investigating the potential 
contribution of the haploidy-linked centrosome loss to haploid instability. In 
this study, we developed an experimental method that allows the re-coupling of 
DNA and centrosome cycles through the chronic extension of the G1/S phase 
without compromising cell proliferation using thymidine treatment/release 
cycles. Chronic extension of G1/S restored normal mitotic centrosome number and 
mitotic control, substantially improving the stability of the haploid state in 
HAP1 cells. Stabilization of the haploid state was compromised when cdk2 was 
inhibited during the extended G1/S, or when early G1 was chronically extended 
instead of G1/S, showing that the coupling of DNA and centrosome cycles rather 
than a general extension of the cell cycle is required for haploid stability. 
Our data indicate the chronic centriole loss arising from the uncoupling of 
centrosome and DNA cycles as a direct cause of genome instability in haploid 
somatic cells, and also demonstrate the feasibility of modulation of haploid 
stability through artificial coordination between DNA and centrosome cycles in 
mammalian somatic cells.

Copyright © 2020 Yoshizawa, Yaguchi and Uehara.

DOI: 10.3389/fcell.2020.00721
PMCID: PMC7408703
PMID: 32850837


606. Front Cell Dev Biol. 2020 Aug 4;8:738. doi: 10.3389/fcell.2020.00738. 
eCollection 2020.

Tbx20 Induction Promotes Zebrafish Heart Regeneration by Inducing Cardiomyocyte 
Dedifferentiation and Endocardial Expansion.

Fang Y(1)(2), Lai KS(1)(2), She P(2), Sun J(2), Tao W(1), Zhong TP(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, School of Life Sciences, Fudan 
University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Regulatory Biology, Institute of Molecular 
Medicine, School of Life Sciences, East China Normal University, Shanghai, 
China.

Heart regeneration requires replenishment of lost cardiomyocytes (CMs) and cells 
of the endocardial lining. However, the signaling regulation and transcriptional 
control of myocardial dedifferentiation and endocardial activation are 
incompletely understood during cardiac regeneration. Here, we report that T-Box 
Transcription Factor 20 (Tbx20) is induced rapidly in the myocardial wound edge 
in response to various sources of cardiac damages in zebrafish. Inducing Tbx20 
specifically in the adult myocardium promotes injury-induced CM proliferation 
through CM dedifferentiation, leading to loss of CM cellular contacts and 
re-expression of cardiac embryonic or fetal gene programs. Unexpectedly, we 
identify that myocardial Tbx20 induction activates the endocardium at the injury 
site with enhanced endocardial cell extension and proliferation, where it 
induces the endocardial Bone morphogenetic protein 6 (Bmp6) signaling. 
Pharmacologically inactivating endocardial Bmp6 signaling reduces expression of 
its targets, Id1 and Id2b, attenuating the increased endocardial regeneration in 
tbx20-overexpressing hearts. Altogether, our study demonstrates that Tbx20 
induction promotes adult heart regeneration by inducing cardiomyocyte 
dedifferentiation as well as non-cell-autonomously enhancing endocardial cell 
regeneration.

Copyright © 2020 Fang, Lai, She, Sun, Tao and Zhong.

DOI: 10.3389/fcell.2020.00738
PMCID: PMC7417483
PMID: 32850848


607. Sci Adv. 2020 Aug 12;6(33):eabb0147. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.abb0147.
eCollection  2020 Aug.

Cryo-EM structures of SERCA2b reveal the mechanism of regulation by the luminal 
extension tail.

Zhang Y(1), Inoue M(1)(2), Tsutsumi A(3), Watanabe S(1)(2), Nishizawa T(4), 
Nagata K(2)(5), Kikkawa M(2)(3), Inaba K(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Multidisciplinary Research for Advanced Materials, Tohoku 
University, Sendai 980-8577, Japan.
(2)Core Research for Evolutional Science and Technology (CREST), Kawaguchi, 
Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Medicine, The University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, 
Tokyo 113-0033, Japan.
(4)Graduate School of Science, The University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, 
Tokyo 113-0033, Japan.
(5)Faculty of Life Sciences, Kyoto Sangyo University, Kyoto 603-8555, Japan.

Sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ ATPase (SERCA) pumps Ca2+ from the cytosol into 
the ER and maintains the cellular calcium homeostasis. Herein, we present 
cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) structures of human SERCA2b in 
E1∙2Ca2+-adenylyl methylenediphosphonate (AMPPCP) and E2-BeF3 - states at 2.9- 
and 2.8-Å resolutions, respectively. The structures revealed that the luminal 
extension tail (LE) characteristic of SERCA2b runs parallel to the lipid-water 
boundary near the luminal ends of transmembrane (TM) helices TM10 and TM7 and 
approaches the luminal loop flanked by TM7 and TM8. While the LE served to 
stabilize the cytosolic and TM domain arrangement of SERCA2b, deletion of the LE 
rendered the overall conformation resemble that of SERCA1a and SERCA2a and 
allowed multiple conformations. Thus, the LE appears to play a critical role in 
conformational regulation in SERCA2b, which likely explains the different 
kinetic properties of SERCA2b from those of other isoforms lacking the LE.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors, some rights reserved; exclusive licensee American 
Association for the Advancement of Science. No claim to original U.S. Government 
Works. Distributed under a Creative Commons Attribution NonCommercial License 
4.0 (CC BY-NC).

DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.abb0147
PMCID: PMC7423393
PMID: 32851169


608. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2020 Dec;48(9):1136-1145. doi: 10.1111/ceo.13848. Epub
2020  Sep 8.

Time-to-event survival statistics in ophthalmology: Methodological research.

Layton CJ(1)(2), Layton DM(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)LVF Ophthalmology Research Centre, Translational Research Institute, 
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(2)Greenslopes Clinical School, Faculty of Medicine, University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(3)School of Dental Science, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, 
Australia.
(4)Private Practice, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.

IMPORTANCE: Understanding the outcomes of interventions over time is essential 
for clinical decision making in surgical specialties.
BACKGROUND: Analysis of survival time (or time to event) is complicated when 
loss to follow up occurs. This article explores transparent data analysis 
methods where missing ("censored") data are present.
DESIGN: Manual search of the top 20 Ophthalmology journals from a recent year of 
the established literature (2014).
SAMPLES: A total of 4565 articles were identified, of which 218 reported 
outcomes of treatment over time in humans.
METHODS: Pertinent details to assist the use of Kaplan-Meier and life table 
actuarial statistics are explained, and criteria that define whether each has 
high, acceptable or poor quality are explored. The quality of reporting from the 
literature sample is analysed.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Reporting quality of survival curves and life tables from 
each sampled article is assessed according to the established criteria.
RESULTS: In total, 31.2% of samples (n = 68) presented survival curves, 53.2% (n 
= 116) presented life tables, 22% (n = 48) presented both, whilst 46.8% (n = 
102) presented neither; 2% of survival curves and 13% of life tables were high 
quality, with quality of life tables significantly better than survival curves 
(P = .0042). 90.36% (n = 197) of articles reported time to event data which was 
classified as poor: due to poor analysis of survival curves (n = 50, 43.10%) 
poor analysis of life tables (n = 45, 66.18%); and complete omission of survival 
graphics (n = 102, 46.97%).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Ophthalmology research that follows patient outcomes 
over time can be analysed with "time-to-event" statistics, and reported with 
transparency. This analysis showed that important contextural information was 
omitted from 90% of ophthalmic studies, and this could impact patient decision 
making.

© 2020 Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/ceo.13848
PMID: 32851762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Health Syst Transit. 2019 Oct;21(3):1-211.

Serbia: Health System Review.

Bjegovic-Mikanovic V(1), Vasic M(2), Vukovic D(1), Jankovic J(1), Jovic-Vranes 
A(1), Santric-Milicevic M(1), Terzic-Supic Z(1), Hernandez-Quevedo C(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre School of Public Health, University of Belgrade.
(2)Institute of Public Health of Serbia "Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut".
(3)European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies.

This analysis of the Serbian health system reviews recent developments in 
organization and governance, health financing, health care provision, health 
reforms and health system performance. The health of the Serbian population has 
improved over the last decade. Life expectancy at birth increased slightly in 
recent years, but it remains, for example, around 5 years below the average 
across European Union countries. Some favourable trends have been observed in 
health status and morbidity rates, including a decrease in the incidence of 
tuberculosis, but population ageing means that chronic conditions and 
long-standing disability are increasing. The state exercises a strong governance 
role in Serbia's social health insurance system. Recent efforts have increased 
centralization by transferring ownership of buildings and equipment to the 
national level. The health insurance system provides coverage for almost the 
entire population (98%). Even though the system is comprehensive and universal, 
with free access to publicly provided health services, there are inequities in 
access to primary care and certain population groups (such as the most socially 
and economically disadvantaged, the uninsured, and the Roma) often experience 
problems in accessing care. The uneven distribution of health professionals 
across the country and shortages in some specialities also exacerbate 
accessibility problems. High out-of-pocket payments, amounting to over 40% of 
total expenditure on health, contribute to relatively high levels of 
self-reported unmet need for medical care. Health care provision is 
characterized by the role of the "chosen doctor" in primary health care centres, 
who acts as a gatekeeper in the system. Recent public health efforts have 
focused on improving access to preventive health services, in particular, for 
vulnerable groups. Health system reforms since 2012 have focused on improving 
infrastructure and technology, and on implementing an integrated health 
information system. However, the country lacks a transparent and comprehensive 
system for assessing the benefits of health care investments and determining how 
to pay for them.

World Health Organization 2019 (acting as the host organization for, and 
secretariat of, the European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies).

PMID: 32851979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. JAMA. 2020 Sep 15;324(11):1037-1038. doi: 10.1001/jama.2020.7715.

Legal Interventions to Address US Reductions in Life Expectancy.

Gostin LO(1), Hodge JG Jr(2), Levin DE(3).

Author information:
(1)O'Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law, Georgetown University 
Law Center, Washington, DC.
(2)Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law, Arizona State University, Phoenix.
(3)Network for Public Health Law, Edina, Minnesota.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2020.7715
PMID: 32852525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Hip Int. 2021 Sep;31(5):572-581. doi: 10.1177/1120700020952776. Epub 2020
Aug  27.

The cost-effectiveness of outpatient surgery for primary total hip arthroplasty 
in the United States: a computer-based cost-utility study.

Rosinsky PJ(1), Go CC(2), Bheem R(1), Shapira J(1), Maldonado DR(1), Meghpara 
MB(1)(3), Lall AC(1)(3)(4), Domb BG(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)American Hip Institute Research Foundation, Des Plaines, IL, USA.
(2)Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
PA, USA.
(3)AMITA Health St. Alexius Medical Center, Hoffman Estates, IL, USA.
(4)American Hip Institute, Des Plaines, IL, USA.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to perform a cost-effectiveness analysis 
of outpatient versus inpatient total hip arthroplasty (THA) in the USA, 
considering complication probability and the potential cost of such 
complications.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis was conducted from the societal 
perspective to evaluate the incremental cost and effectiveness of inpatient THA 
compared to outpatient THA over a lifetime horizon. Effectiveness was expressed 
in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Costs, expressed in 2019 US dollars, 
transition probabilities, and health utilities were derived from the literature. 
The primary outcome was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), with a 
willingness to pay (WTP) threshold set at $50,000/QALY. 1-way and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses was performed to evaluate the effect of the various 
variables on the model.
RESULTS: In the base case, inpatient THA was more effective in terms of total 
utility (10.36 vs. 10.30 QALY), but also more costly ($48,155 ± 1673 vs. 
$43,288 ± 1, 606 for Medicare) than outpatient THA. Even with a lifetime 
horizon, the ICER was $81,116 per QALY and $140,917 per QALY for Medicare and 
private payer insurance, respectively, which is higher than the willingness to 
pay threshold. 1-way sensitivity analyses indicated that the variables having 
the most influence on the model were the utility of inpatient and outpatient THA 
and cost of inpatient and outpatient THA.
CONCLUSIONS: This model determined that for a WTP threshold set at $50,000/QALY, 
outpatient THA is more cost-effective than inpatient THA from a societal 
perspective. Despite this, surgeons must weigh clinical factors first and 
foremost in determining if an individual patient can be safely operated on in 
the outpatient setting.

DOI: 10.1177/1120700020952776
PMID: 32853035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2020 Oct 1;129(4):934-946. doi: 
10.1152/japplphysiol.00290.2020. Epub 2020 Aug 27.

Spatial muscle activation patterns during different leg exercise protocols in 
physically active adults using muscle functional MRI: a systematic review.

Dooley K(1), Snodgrass SJ(1), Stanwell P(1), Birse S(2), Schultz A(2), Drew 
MK(3), Edwards S(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences, The University of Newcastle, Callaghan, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(2)School of Environmental and Life Sciences, The University of Newcastle, 
Ourimbah, New South Wales, Australia.
(3)Department of Physical Therapies, Australian Institute of Sport, Canberra, 
Australia.

An emerging method to measure muscle activation patterns is muscle functional 
magnetic resonance imaging (mfMRI), where preexercise and postexercise muscle 
metabolism differences indicate spatial muscle activation patterns. We evaluated 
studies employing mfMRI to determine activation patterns of lumbar or lower limb 
muscles following exercise in physically active adults. Electronic systematic 
searches were conducted until March 2020. All studies employing ≥1.5 Tesla MRI 
scanners to compare spatial muscle activation patterns at the level of or 
inferior to the first lumbar vertebra in healthy, active adults. Two authors 
independently assessed study eligibility before appraising methodological 
quality using a National Institutes of Health assessment tool. Because of 
heterogeneity, findings were synthesized without meta-analysis. Of the 1,946 
studies identified, seven qualified for inclusion and pertained to hamstring (n 
= 5), quadriceps (n = 1) or extrinsic foot (n = 1) muscles. All included studies 
controlled for internal validity, with one employing assessor blinding. MRI 
physics and differing research questions explain study methodology 
heterogeneity. Significant mfMRI findings were: following Nordic exercise, 
hamstrings with previous trauma (strain or surgical autograft harvest) 
demonstrated reduced activation compared with unharmed contralateral muscles, 
and asymptomatic individuals preferentially activated semitendinosus; greater 
biceps femoris long head to semitendinosus ratios reported following 45° hip 
extension over Nordic exercise; greater rectus femoris activation occurred in 
"flywheel" over barbell squats. mfMRI parameters differ on the basis of 
individual research questions. Individual muscles show greater activation 
following specific exercises, suggesting exercise specificity may be important 
for rehabilitation, although evidence is limited to single cohort studies 
comparing interlimb differences preexercise versus postexercise.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00290.2020
PMID: 32853111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. PLoS One. 2020 Aug 27;15(8):e0237852. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0237852. 
eCollection 2020.

Incidence of postpartum and neonatal illnesses and utilization of healthcare 
services in rural communities in southern Ethiopia: A prospective cohort study.

Borde MT(1)(2)(3), Loha E(4)(5), Lindtjørn B(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Hawassa 
University, Hawassa, Ethiopia.
(2)Centre for International Health, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(3)School of Public Health, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Dilla 
University, Dilla, Ethiopia.
(4)University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(5)Chr. Michelsen Institute, Bergen, Norway.

Although improving postpartum and neonatal health is a key element of the 
Ethiopian health extension program, the burdens of postpartum and neonatal 
illnesses and healthcare-seeking in rural communities in Ethiopia are poorly 
characterized. Therefore, we aimed to assess the incidence and risk factors for 
these illnesses and measure the utilization of healthcare services. We conducted 
a prospective cohort study of 784 postpartum women and their 772 neonates in 
three randomly selected kebeles in rural southern Ethiopia. Eight home follow-up 
visits were conducted during the first 42 postpartum days, and six neonate 
follow-ups were conducted at the same home over the first 28 days of life. The 
Prentice, Williams, and Peterson's total time Cox-type survival model was used 
for analysis. We recorded 31 episodes of postpartum illness per 100 women-weeks 
(95% confidence interval [CI]: 30%, 32%) and 48 episodes of neonatal illness per 
100 neonate-weeks (95% CI: 46%, 50%). Anemia occurred in 19% of women (95% CI: 
17%, 22%) and low birth weight (<2,500g) in 15% of neonates (95% CI: 13%, 18%). 
However, only 5% of postpartum women (95% CI: 4%, 7%) and 4% of neonate (95% CI: 
3%, 5%) reported utilizing healthcare services. Walking over 60 minutes to 
access healthcare was a factor of both postpartum illnesses (AHR = 2.61; 95% CI: 
1.98, 3.43) and neonatal illnesses (AHR = 2.66; 95% CI: 2.12, 3.35)). Birth 
weight ≥2500g was identified factor of neonatal illnesses (AHR = 0.39; 95% CI: 
0.33, 0.46). Compared with younger mothers, older mothers with sick newborns 
(AHR = 1.22; 95% CI: 1.00, 1.50) or postpartum illnesses (AHR = 1.40; 95% CI: 
1.03, 1.89) were more likely to seek healthcare. Reasons for not utilizing 
healthcare services included a belief that the illnesses were not serious or 
would resolve on their own, little confidence in the healthcare institutions, 
and the inability to afford the cost. The burden of postpartum and neonatal 
illnesses in rural communities of southern Ethiopia remains high. Unfortunately, 
few participants utilized healthcare services. We recommend strengthening the 
health system that enables identifying, managing, treating, and referring 
maternal and neonatal illnesses and provide reasonable healthcare at the 
community level.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0237852
PMCID: PMC7451546
PMID: 32853242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


614. Ann Phys Rehabil Med. 2021 Jan;64(1):101430. doi:
10.1016/j.rehab.2020.07.011.  Epub 2020 Oct 15.

The direct health care cost to Medicare of Down syndrome dementia as compared 
with Alzheimer's disease among 2015 Californian beneficiaries.

Bayen E(1), Yaffe K(2), Cleret de Langavant L(3), Chen Y(4), Possin KL(5).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'imagerie biomédicale, department of physical rehabilitation 
medicine GRC24, Sorbonne Université, Pitié-Salpêtrière hospital, AP-HP, Paris, 
France; Memory and Aging Center, Global Brain Health Institute, University of 
California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA. Electronic address: 
Eleonore.bayen@gbhi.org.
(2)Memory and Aging Center, Global Brain Health Institute, University of 
California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA; Departments of psychiatry, 
neurology and epidemiology and biostatistics, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(3)Memory and Aging Center, Global Brain Health Institute, University of 
California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA; InsermU955, department of 
neurology, département d'études cognitives, École normale supérieure, Université 
Paris-Est Créteil, Henri Mondor hospital, AP-HP, Créteil, France. Electronic 
address: laurent.cleret@gbhi.org.
(4)Department of neurology, Memory and Aging center, Sandler Neurosciences 
Center, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(5)Memory and Aging Center, Global Brain Health Institute, University of 
California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA; Department of neurology, 
Memory and Aging center, Sandler Neurosciences Center, University of California 
San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Aging individuals with Down syndrome (DS) are at increased risk of 
dementia due to trisomy of chromosome 21 on which the amyloid precursor protein 
gene is located and with increased life expectancy. Yet, little is known about 
the costs associated with DS dementia and how this compares to Alzheimer's 
disease (AD).
OBJECTIVE: To better understand direct healthcare costs and care consumption in 
DS dementia, we compared the total cost of care to US Medicare and the drivers 
of these medical expenditures in individuals with DS with and without dementia, 
and in those with AD without DS.
METHODS: The effect of dementia in DS on costs and care utilization was 
estimated with 2015 California Medicare fee-for-service data (parts A and B). 
Among 3,001,977 Californian Medicare beneficiaries, 353 individuals had DS with 
dementia (age 45-89 years). We compared their number of chronic comorbidity 
conditions among 27 and their care and Medicare costs to those of age- and 
sex-matched individuals with DS without dementia and those with AD without DS.
RESULTS: Medicare annual cost per beneficiary was a mean of 43.5% and 82.2% 
higher with DS dementia (mean $35,011) than DS without dementia (mean $24,401) 
and AD without dementia (mean $19,212), related to greater utilization of 
inpatient services. DS dementia was associated with increased level of 
multimorbidity (mean of 3.4 conditions in addition to dementia vs. 2.7 and 2.2 
conditions for DS without dementia and AD, respectively), with more emergency 
room visits (88% vs. 76.5% and 54.4%) and with more primary care physician 
visits (91.2% vs. 87.3% and 81.3%).
CONCLUSION: DS adults with dementia have higher health care costs than DS adults 
without dementia and adults with AD. Understanding costs and complex health care 
needs in DS dementia could facilitate management of adult and geriatric care 
resources for these high-need high-cost individuals.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rehab.2020.07.011
PMID: 32853759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Foods. 2020 Aug 25;9(9):1171. doi: 10.3390/foods9091171.

Developing a Commercial Antimicrobial Active Packaging System of Ground Beef 
Based on "Tsipouro" Alcoholic Distillate.

Kapetanakou AE(1), Pateraki GL(1), Skandamis PN(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Food Quality Control and Hygiene, Department of Food Science & 
Human Nutrition, Agricultural University of Athens, Iera Odos 75, 11855 Athens, 
Greece.
