were involved: New South Wales, Western Australia and the Northern Territory. 
Study sites were located in remote, regional and urban areas. Opportunistic 
recruitment occurred between June 2016 and December 2017. People <45 years of 
age were excluded.
RESULTS: Thirty (30) of 619 Aboriginal people received a 'Possible AF' and 81 an 
'Unclassified' result from a hand-held smartphone ECG device. A final diagnosis 
of AF was made in 29 participants (4.7%; 95%CI 3.0-6.4%), 25 with known AF (five 
paroxysmal), and four with previously unknown AF. Three (3) of the four with 
unknown AF were aged between 55-64 years, consistent with a younger age of AF 
onset in Aboriginal people. Estimated AF prevalence increased with age and was 
higher in those aged >55 years than the general population (7.2% compared with 
5.4%). Slightly more men than women were diagnosed with AF.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is a significant contribution to the evidence which 
supports screening for AF in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people 
commencing at a younger age than as recommended in the Australian guidelines 
(>65 years). We recommend the age of 55 years. Consideration should be given to 
the inclusion of AF screening in the Australian Government Department of Health 
annual 'Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Assessment'.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: ACTRN12616000459426.

Copyright © 2020 Australian and New Zealand Society of Cardiac and Thoracic 
Surgeons (ANZSCTS) and the Cardiac Society of Australia and New Zealand (CSANZ). 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hlc.2020.06.009
PMID: 32807629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Sci Rep. 2020 Aug 17;10(1):13862. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-70840-2.

The burden of kidney cancer and its attributable risk factors in 195 countries 
and territories, 1990-2017.

Safiri S(1)(2)(3), Kolahi AA(4), Mansournia MA(5), Almasi-Hashiani A(6), 
Ashrafi-Asgarabad A(7), Sullman MJM(8)(9), Bettampadi D(10)(11), Qorbani M(12), 
Moradi-Lakeh M(13), Ardalan M(14), Mokdad A(15), Fitzmaurice C(15)(16).

Author information:
(1)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Department of Community 
Medicine, School of Medicine, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran. safiris@tbzmed.ac.ir.
(2)Sports Medicine Research Center, Neuroscience Institute, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. safiris@tbzmed.ac.ir.
(3)Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Research Center, Aging Research 
Institute, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. 
safiris@tbzmed.ac.ir.
(4)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Epidemiology, School of Health, Arak University of Medical 
Sciences, Arak, Iran.
(7)Department of Epidemiology, School of Health, Bam University of Medical 
Sciences, Bam, Iran.
(8)Department of Social Sciences, University of Nicosia, Nicosia, Cyprus.
(9)Department of Life and Health Sciences, University of Nicosia, Nicosia, 
Cyprus.
(10)Center for Immunization and Infection Research in Cancer (CIIRC), H. Lee 
Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute, Tampa, FL, USA.
(11)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(12)Non-Communicable Diseases Research Center, Alborz University of Medical 
Sciences, Karaj, Iran.
(13)Preventive Medicine and Public Health Research Center, Iran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(14)Kidney Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(15)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(16)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.

Kidney cancer globally accounts for more than 131,000 deaths each year and has 
been found to place a large economic burden on society. However, there are no 
recent articles on the burden of kidney cancer across the world. The aim of this 
study was to present a status report on the incidence, mortality and 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) associated with kidney cancer in 195 
countries, from 1990 to 2017. Vital registration and cancer registry data (total 
of 23,660 site-years) were used to generate the estimates. Mortality was 
estimated first and the incidence and DALYs were calculated based on the 
estimated mortality values. All estimates were presented as counts and 
age-standardised rates per 100,000 population. The estimated rates were 
calculated by age, sex and according to the Socio-Demographic Index (SDI). In 
2017, kidney cancer accounted for 393.0 thousand (95% UI: 371.0-404.6) incident 
cases, 138.5 thousand (95% UI: 128.7-142.5) deaths and 3.3 million (95% UI: 
3.1-3.4) DALYs globally. The global age-standardised rates for the incidence, 
deaths and DALY were 4.9 (95% UI: 4.7-5.1), 1.7 (95% UI: 1.6-1.8) and 41.1 (95% 
UI: 38.7-42.5), respectively. Uruguay [15.8 (95% UI: 13.6-19.0)] and Bangladesh 
[1.5 (95% UI: 1.0-1.8)] had highest and lowest age-standardised incidence rates, 
respectively. The age-standardised death rates varied substantially from 0.47 
(95% UI: 0.34-0.58) in Bangladesh to 5.6 (95% UI: 4.6-6.1) in the Czech 
Republic. Incidence and mortality rates were higher among males, than females, 
across all age groups, with the highest rates for both sexes being observed in 
the 95+ age group. Generally, positive associations were found between each 
country's age-standardised DALY rate and their corresponding SDI. The 
considerable burden of kidney cancer was attributable to high body mass index 
(18.5%) and smoking (16.6%) in both sexes. There are large inter-country 
differences in the burden of kidney cancer and it is generally higher in 
countries with a high SDI. The findings from this study provide much needed 
information for those in each country that are making health-related decisions 
about priority areas, resource allocation, and the effectiveness of prevention 
programmes. The results of our study also highlight the need for renewed efforts 
to reduce exposure to the kidney cancer risk factors and to improve the 
prevention and the early detection of this disease.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-70840-2
PMCID: PMC7431911
PMID: 32807856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


475. Int J Health Plann Manage. 2020 Nov;35(6):1371-1383. doi: 10.1002/hpm.3014.
Epub  2020 Aug 17.

Medical intervention before death of elderly in India: An inquiry into 
gender-based difference.

Ghosh D(1), Sengupta J(2).

Author information:
(1)Thiagarajar School of Management, Madurai, India.
(2)Sidho Kanho Birsha University, Purulia, India.

BACKGROUND: Demographic shift in India has prolonged life expectancy. The 
phenomenon caused episodes of illness to protract and sufferings of the elderly 
populace to be aggravated. In such a situation, medical attention and 
hospital-based care emerges as an important choice for many. However, such 
argument needs scientific validation that is attempted in the present article.
METHOD: Using nationally representative sample, the study attempts a comparative 
analysis and estimates the major socioeconomic determinants of medical 
intervention before death, for the senior citizens, aged 60 years and above.
FINDINGS: Major findings are as follows: Firstly, gender discrepancy is evident 
in seeking medical attention and hospitalization when social caste and economic 
status of household are considered; secondly, medical attention or 
hospitalization is more familiar among the socioeconomically privileged group 
segment; thirdly, health-seeking behavior is approaching towards homogeneity 
with all the four wealth quartiles showing a more or less equal preference for 
hospital-based care.
CONCLUSION: Receiving medical attention before death is confined in the 
privileged section of the society and of course gender plays an important role 
in this regard. Lack of proper treatment still increases the incidences of death 
among the elderly at the lower segments of society.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hpm.3014
PMID: 32808392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. J Korean Med Sci. 2020 Aug 17;35(32):e300. doi: 10.3346/jkms.2020.35.e300.

Years of Life Lost Attributable to COVID-19 in High-incidence Countries.

Oh IH(#)(1), Ock M(#)(2)(3), Jang SY(1), Go DS(4), Kim YE(5), Jung YS(6), Kim 
KB(6), Park H(7), Jo MW(8), Yoon SJ(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, School of Medicine, Kyung Hee University, 
Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Preventive Medicine, Ulsan University Hospital, Ulsan, Korea.
(4)Department of Health Care Policy Research, Korea Institute for Health and 
Social Affairs, Sejong, Korea.
(5)Big Data Department, National Health Insurance Service, Wonju, Korea.
(6)Department of Public Health, Graduate School, Korea University, Seoul, Korea.
(7)Department of Preventive Medicine, Ewha Womans University School of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.
(8)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea. mdjominwoo@gmail.com.
(9)Department of Preventive Medicine, Korea University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea. yoonsj02@korea.ac.kr.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic is a major public 
health problem of international concern. It is important to estimate its impact 
of COVID-19 for health policy decision-making. We estimated the years of life 
lost (YLLs) due to COVID-19 in high-incidence countries.
METHODS: We collected the YLLs due to COVID-19 in 30 high-incidence countries as 
of April 13, 2020 and followed up as of July 14, 2020. Incidence and mortality 
were collected using each country's formal reports, articles, and other 
electronic sources. The life expectancy of Japanese females by age and the UN 
population data were used to calculate YLLs in total and per 100,000.
RESULTS: As of April 22, 2020, there were 1,699,574 YLLs due to COVID-19 in 30 
high-incidence countries. On July 14, 2020, this increased to 4,072,325. Both on 
April 22 and July 14, the total YLLs due to COVID-19 was highest in the USA 
(April 22, 534,481 YLLs; July 14, 1,199,510 YLLs), and the YLLs per 100,000 
population was highest in Belgium (April 22, 868.12 YLLs/100,000; July 14, 
1,593.72 YLLs/100,000). YLLs due to COVID-19 were higher among males than among 
females and higher in those aged ≥ 60 years than in younger individuals. Belgium 
had the highest proportion of YLLs attributable to COVID-19 as a proportion of 
the total YLLs and the highest disability-adjusted life years per 100,000 
population.
CONCLUSION: This study estimated YLLs due to COVID-19 in 30 countries. COVID-19 
is a high burden in the USA and Belgium, among males and the elderly. The YLLs 
are very closely related with the incidence as well as the mortality. This 
highlights the importance of the early detection of incident case that minimizes 
severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 fatality.

© 2020 The Korean Academy of Medical Sciences.

DOI: 10.3346/jkms.2020.35.e300
PMCID: PMC7431288
PMID: 32808515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no potential conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


477. J Insect Sci. 2020 Jul 1;20(4):21. doi: 10.1093/jisesa/ieaa058.

A Novel Solid Artificial Diet for Zeugodacus cucurbitae (Diptera: Tephritidae) 
Larvae With Fitness Parameters Assessed by Two-Sex Life Table.

Liu X(1)(2), Lin X(1)(3), Li J(1)(3), Li F(1)(3), Cao F(1)(3), Yan R(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Green Prevention and Control of Tropical Plant Diseases and 
Pests (Hainan University), Ministry of Education, Haikou, Hainan Province, 
China.
(2)College of Ecology and Environment, Hainan University, Haikou, Hainan 
Province, China.
(3)College of Plant Protection, Hainan University, Haikou, Hainan Province, 
China.

The melon fly, Zeugodacus cucurbitae (Coquillett), is a serious pest of many 
fruits and vegetables throughout the world. Here we have developed an easy and 
quick-to-prepare solid medium with multiple benefits including reductions in 
post-rearing waste, storage space, and labor for rearing Z. cucurbitae larvae. 
The development time from egg to pupa was 19.11 d when larvae were reared on the 
artificial diet, slightly longer than 17.73 d on pumpkin and 17.13 d on 
cucumber. Zeugodacus cucurbitae achieved higher values of pupal weight, length, 
and width on the artificial diet than two natural diet controls. The rates of 
pupation and adult emergence of Z. cucurbitae grown on the solid medium were 
comparable with those on pumpkin and cucumber. Furthermore, determined by 
age-specific two-sex life table method, the age-specific survival rate of Z. 
cucurbitae was higher on the artificial diet than cucumber but lower than 
pumpkin. The reproductive ability and population dynamics of Z. cucurbitae were 
not significantly affected on the solid medium compared with those on the two 
natural diets. The results suggest that our solid artificial diet is excellent 
for rearing Z. cucurbitae larvae in laboratory and may be used for its mass 
rearing, therefore facilitating its research and control.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/jisesa/ieaa058
PMCID: PMC7433769
PMID: 32809019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Osteopathic Manipulative Treatment: Muscle Energy Procedure - Sacral 
Dysfunctions.

McParland B(1), DeLuca A(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2022 Aug 7.

Author information:
(1)Garden City Hospital / MSUCOM
(2)MSU/ Garden City

Osteopathic manipulative medicine involves an assortment of manual techniques 
and is utilized by many osteopathic physicians to treat a wide range of 
conditions. Low back pain is a common complaint encountered by many clinicians 
and proves to be challenging to diagnose and treat. Studies have shown about 85% 
of patients presenting with low back pain complaints are unable to be provided 
with a precise diagnosis for their symptoms. As specific etiologies are less 
commonly identified, continuous pain leading to limitations in activities 
results in decreased quality of life for patients. Muscle energy techniques 
(MET) have been an essential tool in correcting structural restrictions leading 
to low back pain, especially related sacral dysfunctions. These techniques were 
initially developed by Dr. Fred Mitchell, Sr. and later refined by Dr. Fred 
Mitchell, Jr., both osteopathic physicians. MET maneuvers employ an isotonic 
contraction produced by the patient to engage the dysfunction and is restricted 
by the physician with a counterforce. Each contraction is repeated three to five 
times with a relaxation and stretch phase in between as the physician moves the 
patient in a controlled motion until meeting the next barrier. The isometric 
contraction creates a reciprocal inhibition and relaxation of the antagonistic 
muscle, effectively treating soft tissue restrictive barriers and mobilizing 
joints. This process, in turn, reduces pain and improves circulation. Sacral 
motion within the SI joint can produce several dysfunctions: anterior torsion, 
posterior torsion, and unilateral flexion or extension dysfunctions. This 
article will discuss how to diagnose such sacral dysfunctions and describe 
muscle energy techniques used to correct such dysfunctions.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 32809415

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Brian McParland declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Anthony DeLuca 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


479. Pleurodesis.

Ali M(1), Surani S(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Jul 25.

Author information:
(1)Corpus Christi Medical Center
(2)Texas A&M University

Pleurodesis is a procedure performed to obliterate the pleural space to prevent 
recurrent pleural effusions, pneumothorax, or to treat a persistent 
pneumothorax. Pleurodesis is commonly accomplished by draining the pleural fluid 
or intrapleural air followed by either a mechanical procedure or instilling a 
chemical irritant into the pleural space, which causes intense inflammation and 
fibrosis subsequently leading to adhesions between the two pleural 
membranes. Pleurodesis is most commonly used for recurrent malignant pleural 
effusions, e.g., in the metastatic breast or ovarian cancer and lung cancer. Due 
to the limited life expectancy of these patients, the purpose of the therapy is 
to minimize dyspnea, patient discomfort, length of hospital stay, and overall 
treatment cost. There are two types of pleurodesis: 1. Chemical pleurodesis: It 
is done by inserting a sclerosing agent into the pleural cavity via a chest 
tube. 2. Mechanical/surgical pleurodesis: This is done through medical 
thoracoscopy, video-assisted thoracoscopy (VATS), or open thoracotomy.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 32809520

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Mohammed Ali declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Salim Surani 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


480. Spinal Muscle Atrophy.

Burr P(1), Reddivari AKR(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Jul 17.

Author information:
(1)Greater Glasgow and Clyde
(2)University of Illinois

Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) denotes a collection of inherited clinical 
syndromes causing degeneration of anterior horn cells in the spinal cord with 
associated destruction of alpha motor cells and presents clinically with 
characteristic proximal muscle weakness and atrophy. Homozygous deletion at 5q13 
(the coding region for the survival motor neuron (SMN1) gene) is responsible for 
95% of cases of SMA, and after cystic fibrosis is the second most common cause 
of autosomal recessive inherited related mortality with an estimated incidence 
of 1 in 6000 to 11000. Homozygous deletion at 5q13 is also referred to as 
classical proximal SMA and will be the focus of this article with differentials 
and other causes of SMA discussed below. SMA is heterogeneous in presentation 
and ranges from death within weeks of birth to mild proximal weakness developing 
during adulthood. Earlier presentations are typically associated with poorer 
function and prognosis: classification of SMA subtypes are determined by the age 
of onset as well as clinical severity and life expectancy.  SMA was first 
described in the 1890s, first by Guido Werdnig in describing intermediate and 
severe SMA in 2 brothers and then 7 cases by Johan Hoffmann; type I SMA is 
sometimes eponymously referred to as Werdnig-Hoffmann disease. Similarly, milder 
forms of SMA (type III) detailed by Kugelberg and Welander is sometimes 
eponymously referred to as Kugelberg-Welander disease.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 32809522

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Pierce Burr declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Anil Kumar Reddy 
Reddivari declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible 
companies.481. Cervical Degenerative Disc Disease.

Fakhoury J(1), Dowling TJ(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Aug 14.

Author information:
(1)Northwell Health Plainview LIJ Orthopedics
(2)Long Island Spine Specialists

Degenerative disc disease of the cervical spine typically develops in the aging 
population equally in terms of patient sex. Patients most commonly present with 
pain. Pain, or in combination with other neurological symptoms, may require 
surgical intervention. Treatment options range from nonoperative measures to 
decompression, instrumented fusion, or a combination of both laminoplasty or 
instrumentation or a combination of both. This chapter will examine the anatomy, 
natural history, etiology, pathophysiology, evaluation, and treatment options. 
The cervical spine, C1 to C7, provide exceptional function and range of motion. 
The upper cervical spine, C1 (the atlas, which articulates with the occiput), 
and C2 (the axis) are highly specialized, allowing for significant ranges of 
motion (rotation, flexion, extension, and side-bending) related to facet 
orientation allowing for more rotation. Structures adjacent to the cervical 
vertebrae include the spinal cord and nerve roots, blood vessels as well as the 
trachea and esophagus. The intervertebral disc (IVD) is found from the C2-C3 
level down, aids in cervical spine mobility and stabilization. In contrast to 
the thoracic and lumbar vertebrae, the cervical vertebrae have a unique bony 
prominence called the uncinate process, which articulates with the adjacent 
level to form the joint of Luschka or uncovertebral joint. This joint helps to 
reinforce the IVD and provides additional stability and motion. The IVD is an 
intricate structure composed mainly of two parts, the peripherally located 
annulus fibrosus (AF) and the centrally located nucleus pulpous (NP) which are 
responsible for its’ load distribution function. The anterior and posterior 
longitudinal ligaments reinforce the IVD. The AF of the intervertebral discs is 
mostly of type I collagen in layers (lamellae), proteoglycans, glycoproteins, 
elastic fibers, and extracellular matrix (ECM) secreting cells. These collagen 
layers are uniquely positioned to form a strong shell for the inner contents, 
the NP. The NP has a gel-like consistency composed mainly of water, which 
decreases with age (~90% at birth and 70% by the age of 60). The remaining 
minority of the NP contents then consists of type II collagen and 
proteoglycans.  A critical proteoglycan in the NP is aggrecan, which, when bound 
to hyaluronic acid, helps to keep water within the NP, allowing for load 
resistance. After the first years of life, the IVD becomes the largest avascular 
structure in the body. Most of the nutrition delivery is via metabolite 
diffusion from the vertebral endplates. Over time, the IVD not only begins to 
lose its water content but its proteoglycan supply as well, leading to a more 
fibrotic consistency of the NP and subsequent fissuring As those vertebral 
endplates calcify with aging. There are different types of NP herniations. If 
the NP herniates but remains contained by the annulus, it is referred to as a 
disc protrusion. However, the NP can also penetrate through injured annular 
fibers, and NP contents can extrude through a defect in the annulus, referred to 
as a disc extrusion. Furthermore, NP fragments can be separated from the 
extruded disc material, yielding disc sequestration. The degenerative process of 
the cervical spine classifies into three distinct stages: (1) dysfunction, (2) 
instability, and (3) stabilization. Dysfunction occurs between the ages of 15 to 
45 years old. During this stage, radial and circumferential tears can occur in 
the annulus accompanied by facet joint localized synovitis. Instability (2) can 
occur in individuals between the ages of 35 to 70 years old. This stage is 
characterized by disruption of the inner disc with progressive resorption, as 
well as facet joint degeneration. This condition leads to the final stage of the 
process, stabilization, occurring most commonly after 60 years of age. Here, 
hypertrophic bone develops around the facet joints as well as the disc, 
promoting stiff and possible ankylosing spine. Interestingly, each spine segment 
may be at a different degenerative stage. One level could be completing the 
dysfunction stage while another beginning the stabilization phase. Disc 
herniations appear to occur as a result of dysfunction and instability phase 
while spinal stenosis occurs as a result of the late instability stage and early 
stabilization stage as a result of the bony overgrowth and disk space narrowing 
 It is, for this reason, one may find a patient whose cervical spine segments 
have a combination of disc herniations and spinal stenosis at different 
levels.C5-6 is most commonly affected due to biomechanics of the cervical spine. 
When discussing the natural history of the cervical degenerative disc disease 
and treatment options, symptomatic patients can experience an array of symptoms 
from pain intermittent or constant, along with possible neurological symptoms 
without pain. Patients generally receive nonoperative treatment when 
experiencing nonprogressive pain and/or minimal neurological issues. If surgery 
is necessary, it is typically elective, and it can be delayed with the hope of 
symptomatic improvement. However, an exception is patients diagnosed with 
cervical myelopathy who should have more urgent surgical treatment to avoid 
progression. The proper diagnosis and treatment for spondylolytic cervical 
myelopathy can be extremely challenging, especially in patients with or even 
without ongoing axial neck pain with possible radiculopathy. One must also be 
aware that 20% of patients with cervical stenosis may also have lumbar stenosis. 
While many patients may have straightforward diagnosis with a thorough history 
and physical examination accompanied by confirmatory imaging modalities, there 
is a significant subset of patients who have pain without experiencing 
neurological findings (aside from possible sensory changes) and whose imaging 
may not easily correlate with physical exam findings. It is instances such as 
this in which other diagnostic modalities should support a careful history and 
physical examination for an accurate diagnosis. Thus, a systematic assessment is 
imperative to diagnose and treat these patients appropriately and adequately.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 32809607

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Jordan Fakhoury declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Thomas Dowling 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


482. Lymphangitic Carcinomatosis.

AK AK(1), Mantri SN(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2023 Jul 4.

Author information:
(1)Manipal Hospitals
(2)Apollo Hospital Bangalore

Lymphangitis carcinomatosis is the malignant infiltration and inflammation of 
lymphatic vessels secondary to the metastatic spread of malignancy from a 
primary site. The carcinomatous infiltration of the lymphatic vessels almost 
always occurs in the pulmonary interstitial lymphatics (pulmonary lymphangitic 
carcinomatosis) though rare reports of lymphangitic carcinomatosis of skin, 
duodenum & kidney(non-pulmonary lymphangitic carcinomatosis) have been described 
in the literature. Our focus of attention in this review is about pulmonary 
lymphangitic carcinomatosis, which almost always represents the clinical form of 
lymphangitic carcinomatosis. The terms pulmonary lymphangitic carcinomatosis & 
pulmonary tumor embolism represent end-stage manifestations of malignancies and 
have been used synonymously in the literature given highly similar clinical & 
radiological features though the former represents a pathology predominantly 
restricted to the interstitium with absent tumor cells in pulmonary arteries and 
or capillaries, whereas the latter demonstrates the presence of tumor cells 
inside the pulmonary vessels. Dr. Gabriel Andral was the first to describe 
pulmonary lymphangitic carcinomatosis in 1829 in a case of uterine 
malignancy. Subsequently, Troissier & Reynaud made a detailed description of the 
gross anatomy & histopathology in 1874. Although pulmonary lymphangitic 
carcinomatosis usually represents an end-stage malignancy with poor life 
expectancy, reports of increased survival have been observed in recent 
literature. The commonest causes for lymphangitic carcinomatosis include breast, 
lung, stomach, prostate, pancreas, colon, cervix, & uterine malignancies.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 32809756

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Ajith Kumar AK declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Sumant Mantri 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


483. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Nov 1;162:1770-1779. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.08.086. Epub 2020 Aug 15.

Sodium alginate-based edible coating containing nanoemulsion of Citrus sinensis 
essential oil eradicates planktonic and sessile cells of food-borne pathogens 
and increased quality attributes of tomatoes.

Das S(1), Vishakha K(1), Banerjee S(1), Mondal S(2), Ganguli A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Techno India University, EM-4 Sector-V, Salt Lake 
City, Kolkata 700091, West Bengal, India.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Techno India University, EM-4 Sector-V, Salt Lake 
City, Kolkata 700091, West Bengal, India. Electronic address: 
sandhimita@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Techno India University, EM-4 Sector-V, Salt Lake 
City, Kolkata 700091, West Bengal, India. Electronic address: 
ganguli.arnab009@gmail.com.

There is a growing interest from the worldwide scientific community in 
formulating edible- biodegradable coatings to replace non-biodegradable and 
expensive commercial wax-based coatings for preserving postharvest quality 
attributes of vegetables including tomatoes. Postharvest tomatoes are a 
suspected vehicle for both Salmonella and Listeria in food poisoning incidents. 
In this work, the effectiveness of edible nano-emulsion coatings containing 
sweet orange essential oil and sodium alginate were prepared and characterized, 
then evaluated antibacterial and antibiofilm activity against Salmonella and 
Listeria and simultaneously, examined its coating effect on various quality 
characteristics of tomatoes at 22 ± 2 °C over a 15 days storage period. DLS 
(Dynamic light scattering) study revealed stable nanoemulsion formulation with 
43.23 nm particle size. The high whiteness index of nanoemulsion has a positive 
impact on product marketability and desirability. Antibacterial and antibiofilm 
studies revealed nanoemulsion effectively eradicate both sessile and planktonic 
forms of Salmonella and Listeria in both single and multi-species culture 
conditions. Tomatoes coated with edible coating significantly enhanced firmness 
up to 33%, decreased total mesophilic bacteria including Salmonella and 
Listeria, and reduced weight loss up to 3 fold lower than uncoated one. Sensory 
analysis revealed that the use of the edible coating increased the total 
acceptance scores of tomatoes.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.08.086
PMID: 32810536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that would have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


484. Thromb Res. 2020 Dec;196:4-10. doi: 10.1016/j.thromres.2020.08.014. Epub
2020  Aug 11.

Cost-effectiveness of edoxaban vs low-molecular-weight heparin and warfarin for 
cancer-associated thrombosis in Brazil.

Lopes DG(1), Tamayo A(2), Schipp B(3), Siepmann T(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Healthcare Sciences, Center for Clinical Research and Management 
Education, Dresden International University, Dresden, Germany. Electronic 
address: dglopes.research@gmail.com.
(2)Brandon Regional Health Centre, Shared Health Manitoba, Brandon, Manitoba, 
Canada.
(3)Statistics and Econometrics, Faculty of Business and Economics, Technische 
Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(4)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, Technische 
Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany; Division of Healthcare Sciences, Center 
for Clinical Research and Management Education, Dresden International 
University, Dresden, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is the second leading cause of death in 
cancer patients. In Brazil, even though low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) is 
the gold standard of care for the management of cancer-associated thrombosis 
(CAT), its cost limits its use and therefore warfarin is commonly prescribed. 
Direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs), such as edoxaban, have been introduced as an 
alternative in this setting.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to compare the cost-effectiveness of 
edoxaban with LMWH (Model 1) and warfarin (Model 2) to support clinicians and 
hospitals when choosing an anticoagulant to manage CAT.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analyses were performed using Markov 
state-transition models over a timeframe of 5 years, in a hypothetical, 
64 years-old patients cancer population with an index VTE event. Transition 
probabilities, costs, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and risk reductions 
were either derived from the literature, estimated or calculated. A 
willingness-to-pay limit of 3 Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per head was used. 
Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed for 
robustness. The main outcome of this study was the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), expressed as cost per QALY gained.
RESULTS: Model 1 base case analysis demonstrated dominance of edoxaban compared 
to LMWH, with an ICER of $5204.46, representing cost saved per QALY lost. In 
Model 2, edoxaban was associated with a $736.90 cost increase vs. warfarin, with 
an ICER of $2541.03. Sensitivity analyses confirmed base-case results.
CONCLUSION: Edoxaban represents a cost-saving alternative to LMWH for the 
management of CAT and is cost-effective vs. warfarin.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thromres.2020.08.014
PMID: 32810773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. J Interprof Care. 2021 Jul-Aug;35(4):633-636. doi: 
10.1080/13561820.2020.1798900. Epub 2020 Aug 18.

Key strategies for improving transitions of care collaboration: lessons from the 
ECHO-care transitions program.

Junge-Maughan L(1), Moore A(2)(3), Lipsitz L(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gerontology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(2)Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Hebrew Senior Life Institute for Aging Research, Boston, MA, USA.

Transitioning the care of a patient from a hospital to a skilled nursing 
facility (SNF) is critical and often risky. Poor care transitions can result in 
delays, medication mistakes, incomplete follow-up care, and adverse health 
outcomes. Ensuring a smooth and effective care transition is the goal for 
providers at both the hospital and SNF. At its foundation, successful care 
transitions rely on teamwork, relationship building, and communication among 
diverse groups of providers. Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) 
developed the ECHO-CT (Extension for Community Healthcare Outcomes-Care 
Transitions) program to improve transitions of care through structured, 
bi-directional communication between hospital-based and SNF-based providers. 
This paper describes key strategies for success in this model including: 
facilitating teamwork, eliminating hierarchy, and encouraging a bi-directional 
learning environment. We propose these as strategies that could be implemented 
in other organizations seeking to improve value during transitions of care.

DOI: 10.1080/13561820.2020.1798900
PMID: 32811238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Soc Work Public Health. 2020 Jul 1;35(6):456-472. doi: 
10.1080/19371918.2020.1806167. Epub 2020 Aug 18.

Turkish Health Policies: Past, Present, and Future.

Oguz AB(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Social Sciences, Isik University , Maslak, Istanbul, 
Turkey.

In this article, health policies in Turkey from the 1900s to the present are 
reviewed in light of the available data on the number of health institutions, 
life expectancy, infant mortality, and state budget allocation. While a 
significant quantitative development is observed in the provision of health 
services, the state by far maintained a leading role in the provision of health 
services until the 1980s, when an initially weak but steady deviation began, 
significantly increasing its pace from 2002 and creating a new path where the 
private sector raised its share with the extensive implementation of neoliberal 
economic policies. The emergence of public-private partnership projects as a 
financing tool in the health sector, with various models from the 1990s around 
the world, found its place in the Turkish health system in the form of city 
hospitals from 2013, creating a new deviation in the provision of health 
services by the state.

DOI: 10.1080/19371918.2020.1806167
PMID: 32811368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. BMC Oral Health. 2020 Aug 18;20(1):225. doi: 10.1186/s12903-020-01203-6.

Outpatient dental care for people with disabilities under general anaesthesia in 
Switzerland.

Jockusch J(1), Sobotta BAJ(2), Nitschke I(3)(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinic of General, Special Care and Geriatric Dentistry, Center of Dental 
Medicine, University of Zurich, Plattenstrasse 11, CH-8032, Zurich, Switzerland. 
Julia.Jockusch@zzm.uzh.ch.
(2)Department of Prosthodontics and Materials Science, Gerodontology Section, 
University of Leipzig, Liebigstraße 12, 04103, Leipzig, Germany.
(3)Clinic of General, Special Care and Geriatric Dentistry, Center of Dental 
Medicine, University of Zurich, Plattenstrasse 11, CH-8032, Zurich, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy of people with permanent disabilities has increased. 
The dental care of these vulnerable patients is one of the greatest challenges 
for the dentist and the dental team due to limited or non-existent cooperation 
and the associated lack of health competence. In order to be able to provide 
safe and acceptable, quality dental treatment without psychological and physical 
stress for these patients, it is therefore necessary to resort to sedation or 
general anaesthesia (GA) under medical supervision. The aim of the analysis is 
to highlight the need for dental treatment performed under GA for people with 
disabilities and the associated indications and treatment patterns.
METHODS: Ten-year retrospective analysis of outpatient dental care under GA for 
people with disabilities.
RESULTS: Of all adult patients (n = 221) who attended the GA pre-assessment, 
69.7% (n = 154) received dental treatment under GA based on the clinical 
findings or in cases of suspected pain. Most patients received one GA. A total 
of 205 dental treatment sessions were performed under GA mostly for conservative 
(n = 442, 52%) and surgical (n = 389, 45.8%) procedures. Endodontic treatment 
(n = 19, 2.2%) was rare. The failure rate related to all teeth in need of 
treatment (n = 850) was 5.1% (n = 43), in most cases due to secondary caries 
(n = 40; 93.0%). Patients were enrolled in an annual recall for dental 
examination and prophylaxis without GA. Non-compliant patients for whom oral 
hygiene was impossible received a periodic GA.
CONCLUSION: There is a high need of people with disabilities for dental 
treatment under GA. Main indications for treatment under GA are dental 
complaints, pain or suspected pain. Dental care can be successful if, for the 
benefit of patients with special needs, all carers cooperate closely. Caregivers 
have to be trained in nutrition control as well as in oral hygiene. These 
factors in conjunction help to prevent dental emergencies.

DOI: 10.1186/s12903-020-01203-6
PMCID: PMC7433094
PMID: 32811473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


488. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2021 Mar;19(2):155-162. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-020-00606-4.

Is the Choice of Cost-Effectiveness Threshold in Cost-Utility Analysis 
Endogenous to the Resulting Value of Technology? A Systematic Review.

Padula WV(1)(2), Chen HH(3), Phelps CE(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical and Health Economics, School of Pharmacy, 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA. padula@usc.edu.
(2)Leonard D. Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics, USC Schaeffer 
Center, University of Southern California, 635 Downey Way (VPD), Los Angeles, 
CA, 90089, USA. padula@usc.edu.
(3)Division of Practice Advancement and Clinical Education, UNC Eshelman School 
of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(4)Departments of Economics and Public Health Sciences, University of Rochester, 
Rochester, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: Cost-utility analysis (CUA) is widely used for health technology 
assessment; however, concerns exist that cost-utility analysts may suggest 
higher cost-effectiveness thresholds (CETs) to compensate for technologies of 
relatively lower value.
OBJECTIVE: We explored whether selection of a CUA study's CET was endogenous to 
estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
METHODS: We systematically reviewed the US cost-effectiveness literature between 
2000 and 2017 where studies with explicit CET and ICERs were included. We 
classified the ratio of studies hypothesized to analyze cost-effective 
technologies at low CETs (i.e., less than $100,000/quality-adjusted life-year 
[QALY]) vs higher CETs (i.e., $100,000-$150,000/QALY) relative to their ICER, 
using a Chi square test to examine whether technologies that were cost effective 
at high CETs would still be cost effective at lower thresholds. We also 
performed fixed-effects linear regression exploring the associations between 
ICERs and reported CETs over time.
RESULTS: Among 317 ICERs reviewed: (A) 185 had an ICER < $50,000/QALY; (B) 53 
had $50,000 ≤ ICER, < $100,000; (C) 20 had $100,000 ≤ ICER < $150,000; and (D) 
59 had an ICER ≥ $150,000. Chi square testing showed a strong association 
(p < 0.001) between estimated ICER values and chosen CET, illustrating a lack of 
independence between the two. The regression analysis indicated that CETs have a 
baseline value of $52,000 and grow by $0.37 for each dollar increase in the 
estimated ICER.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost-effectiveness thresholds represent the hypothesis tests of 
typical CUAs. Our analysis highlights that most CUAs that cite high CETs also 
result in greater ICERs for the novel interventions that they investigate; thus, 
these interventions would otherwise not have been cost effective at lower CETs. 
Selection of a CET may come after the ICER is calculated to infer value that 
suits a hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-020-00606-4
PMID: 32812212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. J Pept Sci. 2020 Nov;26(11):e3279. doi: 10.1002/psc.3279. Epub 2020 Aug 18.

C-terminal tails mimicking bioactive intermediates cause different plasma 
degradation patterns and kinetics in neuropeptides γ-MSH, α-MSH, and 
neurotensin.

Palazzi L(1), Pasquato A(2), Vicario M(3), Roulin A(4), Polverino de Laureto 
P(1), Cendron L(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical and Pharmacological Sciences and CRIBI, 
University of Padova, Padova, Italy.
(2)Institute of Microbiology, University Hospital Center and University of 
Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Padova, Padova, Italy.
(4)Department of Ecology and Evolution, Faculty of Biology and Medicine, 
University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.

Peptides are attractive drugs because of their specificity and minimal 
off-target effects. Short half-lives are within their major drawbacks, limiting 
actual use in clinics. The golden standard in therapeutic peptide development 
implies identification of a minimal core sequence, then modified to increase 
stability through several strategies, including the introduction of nonnatural 
amino acids, cyclization, and lipidation. Here, we investigated plasma 
degradations of hormone sequences all composed of a minimal active core peptide 
and a C-terminal extension. We first investigated pro-opimelanocortin (POMC) 
γ2/γ3-MSH hormone behavior and extended our analysis to POMC-derived 
α-melanocyte stimulating hormone/adrenocorticotropic hormone signaling 
neuropeptides and neurotensin. We demonstrated that in all the three cases 
analyzed in this study, few additional residues mimicking the natural sequence 
alter both peptide stability and the mechanism(s) of degradation of the minimal 
conserved functional pattern. Our results suggest that the impact of extensions 
on the bioactivity of a peptide drug has to be carefully evaluated throughout 
the optimization process.

© 2020 European Peptide Society and John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/psc.3279
PMID: 32812282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Macromol Rapid Commun. 2021 Apr;42(8):e2000326. doi: 10.1002/marc.202000326.
 Epub 2020 Aug 18.

Ring-Opening Metathesis Polymerization of endo- and exo-Norbornene Lactones.

Miyasako N(1), Matsuoka SI(1), Suzuki M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science and Applied Chemistry, Graduate School of 
Engineering, Nagoya Institute of Technology, Gokiso-cho, Showa-ku, Nagoya, 
Aichi, 466-8555, Japan.

New ester-functionalized bicyclic aliphatic polymers are synthesized through the 
ring-opening metathesis polymerization (ROMP) of endo- and exo-norbornene 
lactones (endo-NBL and exo-NBL) and their oxa-norbornene analogue (exo-oxa-NBL) 
followed by hydrogenation. The polymerizability between endo- and exo-NBLs, and 
the thermal properties between the six types of polymers before and after 
hydrogenation are compared and discussed. The ROMP of all three monomers 
proceeded in a living fashion under optimized conditions, which is confirmed by 
chain extension experiments. Endo-NBL shows a much lower homo- and 
copolymerizability than exo-NBL probably owing to six-membered chelation to the 
Ru center and steric hindrance in the ruthenacyclobutane intermediate. 
Stereo-block and stereo-gradient copolymers of poly(endo-NBL) and poly(exo-NBL) 
are also synthesized. The hydrogenation catalyzed by RuHCl(CO)(PPh3 )3 in the 
mixed solvents of o-xylene and N,N-dimethyl acetamide (DMAc) results in more 
than 95% conversion. The obtained hydrogenated polymers, H-poly(endo-NBL) and 
H-poly(exo-NBL), are amorphous, soluble in chlorinated aliphatic solvents, and 
thermally stable until 400 °C without a weight loss. Their glass transition 
temperatures are 163 and 131 °C, respectively; the values are appropriate in 
terms of both thermal stability and processing deformation for the application 
of transparent resin materials.

© 2020 Wiley-VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/marc.202000326
PMID: 32812300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Acta Oncol. 2021 Jan;60(1):106-111. doi: 10.1080/0284186X.2020.1806356. Epub
 2020 Aug 19.

End-of-life care among patients with pancreatic cancer with or without 
palliative intervention: a retrospective single-centre study.

Rautakorpi L(1)(2), Jyrkkiö S(1), Löyttyniemi E(3), Hirvonen O(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology and Radiotherapy, Turku University Hospital, Turku, 
Finland.
(2)Department of Clinical Oncology, University of Turku, Turku, Finland and.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.

INTRODUCTION: Palliative care can reduce the symptom burden and may increase the 
life expectancy for patients with advanced malignancies. The aim of this study 
was to evaluate the impact of palliative intervention on the treatment 
procedures for pancreatic cancer patients during their last month of life.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This retrospective single-centre study included adult 
pancreatic cancer patients who were treated in Turku University Hospital during 
their last month of life and died between 2011 and 2016. Data were collected 
from hospital database. Oncological treatments, the number of radiological 
examinations and procedures, surgical procedures, emergency department visits, 
hospitalisations, the place of death and medical costs were examined in tertiary 
care for patients with or without contact to the palliative care unit.
RESULTS: From 378 eligible patients, 20% (n = 76) had a contact to the 
palliative care unit. These patients had less radiological examinations 
(p < 0.0001), hospitalisations (p <0.0001) and emergency department visits 
(p = 0.021) during the last month of life. They did not die in the university 
hospital as often (p = 0.011) and median of their medical costs during the last 
month of life was approximately half (p <0.0001) when compared to patients with 
no palliative intervention (n = 302). They had longer overall survival 
(p <0.0001) which was the only difference detected in the characteristics of the 
groups.
CONCLUSION: Fewer treatment procedures and lower tertiary care costs during the 
last month of life were observed for the pancreatic cancer patients who had a 
contact to the palliative care unit. Palliative care intervention should be an 
essential part of the treatment schedule for these patients.

DOI: 10.1080/0284186X.2020.1806356
PMID: 32812832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. MEDICC Rev. 2020 Jul;22(3):46-53. doi: 10.37757/MR2020.V22.N3.10.

Prognostic Scale to Stratify Risk of Intrahospital Death in Patients with Acute 
Myocardial Infarction with ST-Segment Elevation.

Rodríguez-Jiménez AE, Negrín-Valdés T, Cruz-Inerarity H, Castellano-Gallo LA, 
Chávez-González E.

INTRODUCTION The scales available to predict death and complica-tions after 
acute coronary syndrome include angiographic studies and serum biomarkers that 
are not within reach of services with limited resources. Such services need 
specifi c and sensitive instruments to evaluate risk using accessible resources 
and information. OBJECTIVE Develop a scale to estimate and stratify the risk of 
intra-hospital death in patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial 
infarction. METHODS An analytical observational study was conducted in a 
universe of 769 patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction 
who were admitted consecutively to the Camilo Cienfuegos Provincial Hospital in 
Sancti Spíritus Province, Cuba, from January 2013 to March 2018. The fi nal 
study cohort included 667 patients, ex-cluding 102 due to branch blocks, atrial 
fi brillation, drugs that prolong the QT interval, low life expectancy or 
history of myocardial infarction. The demographic variables of age, sex, skin 
color, classic cardiovas-cular risk factors, blood pressure, heart rate, blood 
glucose level, in addition to duration and dispersion of the QT interval with 
and without correction, left ventricular ejection fraction, and glomerular fi 
ltration rate were included in the analysis. Patients were categorized according 
to the Killip-Kimball Classifi cation for degree of heart failure. A risk scale 
was constructed, the predictive ability of which was evaluated using the 
detectability index associated with an receiver-operator curve.RESULTS 
Seventy-seven patients died (11.5%). Mean blood glucose levels were higher among 
the deceased, while their systolic and dia-stolic blood pressure, left 
ventricular ejection fraction, and glomerular fi ltration rate were lower than 
those participants discharged alive. Rel-evant variables included in the scale 
were systolic blood pressure, Killip-Kimball class, cardiorespiratory arrest, 
glomerular fi ltration rate, corrected QT interval dispersion, left ventricular 
ejection fraction, and blood glucose levels. The variable with the best 
predictive ability was cardiorespiratory arrest, followed by a blood glucose 
level higher than 11.1 mmol/L. The scale demonstrated a great predictive ability 
with a detectability index of 0.92. CONCLUSIONS The numeric scale we designed 
estimates and strati-fi es risk of death during hospitalization for patients 
with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction and has good metric properties 
for predictive ability and calibration. KEYWORDS ST-segment elevation myocardial 
infarction, mortality, risk assessment, Cuba.

DOI: 10.37757/MR2020.V22.N3.10
PMID: 32812899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Oct;104(19):8077-8087. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-020-10801-x. Epub 2020 Aug 19.

Key elements and regulation strategies of NRPSs for biosynthesis of lipopeptides 
by Bacillus.

Yang R(1), Lei S(1), Xu X(1), Jin H(1), Sun H(1), Zhao X(1), Pang B(1), Shi 
J(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory for Space Bioscience and Biotechnology, School of Life 
Sciences, Northwestern Polytechnical University, 127 Youyi West Road, Xi'an, 
710072, Shanxi Province, China.
(2)Key Laboratory for Space Bioscience and Biotechnology, School of Life 
Sciences, Northwestern Polytechnical University, 127 Youyi West Road, Xi'an, 
710072, Shanxi Province, China. sjlshi2004@nwpu.edu.cn.

Lipopeptides are a group of second metabolites of Bacillus and have multiple 
activities such as inhibiting fungi, bacteria, viruses, and tumors, showing a 
great potential application in agricultural and biomedical fields. However, low 
production severely restrained their application in practice. Deeply 
understanding the key elements of lipopeptide synthesis and the regulatory 
strategies is essential to target the improvement of lipopeptide production. The 
synthetic pathways of different lipopeptides are different, but closely and 
mutually interfered. The loading of fatty acid chains and the extension of 
peptide chains are two key steps for the synthesis of different lipopeptides by 
Bacillus. The selection of fatty acid chains, the loading order of amino acids, 
and the recognition of the final cyclization site are the critical steps to 
determine the end products of different lipopeptides. In order to find the key 
elements for precisely directing the formation of different lipopeptides by 
Bacillus, the key structural elements and possible regulatory strategies that 
have been reported in the production of different lipopeptides, mainly 
surfactin, iturin, and fengycin by Bacillus, were summarized and compared. The 
possible ways to improve the production of different targeted lipopeptides were 
proposed. KEY POINTS: • The selectivity of fatty acids is determined by specific 
domains. • The COM domain and the PKS docking domain determine the order of 
amino acids. • The regulation patterns of different domains for lipopeptide 
synthesis are different. • The regulation of different lipopeptide products 
overlaps each other.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-020-10801-x
PMID: 32813066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

