alluring lifestyle comes with its own perils, the biggest one being concerned 
with health which is often compromised with check ins and home delivered food 
but the problem doesn't just lie with the outside food but also with all those 
chemical enriched engineered expensive food items. The industry often tempers 
with our food to make it "More Attractive" to the consumer. However, in modern 
era, availability of drugs and fancy powders has led to imbalance of health and 
nutrition, contrary to the previous era when home gardening was very common and 
people preferred fresh-foods which didn't contain added chemicals. They even 
used to treat some of the health problems with the natural ways that we nowadays 
refer to DIYs (Do-it-yourselves). Since Ayurveda used natural herbs and plant 
extracts for treatment, the earth was fresher and less-polluted which led to 
greater life expectancy. The modern era also has its own benefits like 
excellences in allopathy medicine has brought a cure to many untreatable 
diseases of the ancient times, and have even eradicated certain diseases like 
smallpox and polio. To summarize, both the time had their own pros and cons, so 
it would be better if we take both of their advantages into consideration and 
work ahead to live a healthy life.

© 2020 Journal of Lifestyle Medicine.

DOI: 10.15280/jlm.2020.10.2.67
PMCID: PMC7502895
PMID: 32995333

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS None to declare.


118. medRxiv. 2020 Oct 15:2020.07.12.20148387. doi: 10.1101/2020.07.12.20148387. 
Preprint.

Reductions in 2020 US life expectancy due to COVID-19 and the disproportionate 
impact on the Black and Latino populations.

Andrasfay T(1), Goldman N(2).

Author information:
(1)Leonard Davis School of Gerontology, University of Southern California.
(2)Office of Population Research, Princeton University.

Update in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2021 Feb 2;118(5):

COVID-19 has resulted in a staggering death toll in the US: over 215,000 by 
mid-October 2020, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Black and Latino Americans have experienced a disproportionate burden of 
COVID-19 morbidity and mortality, reflecting persistent structural inequalities 
that increase risk of exposure to COVID-19 and mortality risk for those 
infected. We estimate life expectancy at birth and at age 65 for 2020, for the 
total US population and by race and ethnicity, using four scenarios of deaths - 
one in which the COVID-19 pandemic had not occurred and three including COVID-19 
mortality projections produced by the Institute for Health Metrics and 
Evaluation. Our medium estimate indicates a reduction in US life expectancy at 
birth of 1.13 years to 77.48 years, lower than any year since 2003. We also 
project a 0.87-year reduction in life expectancy at age 65. The Black and Latino 
populations are estimated to experience declines in life expectancy at birth of 
2.10 and 3.05 years, respectively, both of which are several times the 0.68-year 
reduction for whites. These projections imply an increase of nearly 40% in the 
Black-white life expectancy gap, from 3.6 to over five years, thereby 
eliminating progress made in reducing this differential since 2006. Latinos, who 
have consistently experienced lower mortality than whites (a phenomenon known as 
the Latino or Hispanic paradox), would see their more than three-year survival 
advantage reduced to less than one year.

DOI: 10.1101/2020.07.12.20148387
PMCID: PMC7523145
PMID: 32995806


119. Cereb Cortex. 2021 Jan 5;31(2):1060-1076. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhaa274.

The Event-Related Potentials Responding to Outcome Valence and Expectancy 
Violation during Feedback Processing.

Gu Y(1), Liu T(1), Zhang X(1), Long Q(1), Hu N(1), Zhang Y(2), Chen A(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Cognition and Personality of Ministry of Education, 
National Demonstration Center for Experimental Psychology Education (Southwest 
University), Faculty of Psychology, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, 
China.
(2)Center for Brain Imaging, School of Life Science and Technology, Xidian 
University, Xi'an, Shaanxi 710126, China.

Feedback-related negativity (FRN) is believed to encode reward prediction error 
(RPE), a term describing whether the outcome is better or worse than expected. 
However, some studies suggest that it may reflect unsigned prediction error 
(UPE) instead. Some disagreement remains as to whether FRN is sensitive to the 
interaction of outcome valence and prediction error (PE) or merely responsive to 
the absolute size of PE. Moreover, few studies have compared FRN in appetitive 
and aversive domains to clarify the valence effect or examine PE's quantitative 
modulation. To investigate the impact of valence and parametrical PE on FRN, we 
varied the prediction and feedback magnitudes within a probabilistic learning 
task in valence (gain and loss domains, Experiment 1) and non-valence contexts 
(pure digits, Experiment 2). Experiment 3 was identical to Experiment 1 except 
that some blocks emphasized outcome valence, while others highlighted predictive 
accuracy. Experiments 1 and 2 revealed a UPE encoder; Experiment 3 found an RPE 
encoder when valence was emphasized and a UPE encoder when predictive accuracy 
was highlighted. In this investigation, we demonstrate that FRN is sensitive to 
outcome valence and expectancy violation, exhibiting a preferential response 
depending on the dimension that is emphasized.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permission@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhaa274
PMID: 32995836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Health Econ. 2021 Nov;30 Suppl 1:80-91. doi: 10.1002/hec.4168. Epub 2020 Sep
29.

Improved survival for individuals with common chronic conditions in the Medicare 
population.

Goldman DP(1)(2)(3), Cohen BG(1)(2), Ho JY(2)(4), McFadden DL(2)(5), Ryan 
MS(2)(3), Tysinger B(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)USC School of Pharmacy, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
California, USA.
(2)Leonard D. Schaeffer Center for Health Policy & Economics, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(3)Sol Price School of Public Policy, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, California, USA.
(4)Leonard Davis School of Gerontology and Department of Sociology, University 
of Southern California, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(5)University of California, Berkeley, California, USA.

It is well established that the United States lags behind peer nations in life 
expectancy, but it is less established that there is heterogeneity in life 
expectancy trends. We compared mortality trends from 2004 to 2014 for the United 
States with 17 high-income countries for persons under and over 65. The United 
States ranked last in survival gains for the young but ranked near the middle 
for persons over 65, the group with universal access to public insurance. To 
explore the over-65 mortality trend, we estimated Cox proportional hazards 
models for individuals soon after entering Medicare. These were estimated 
separately by race and sex, controlling for 26 chronic conditions and 
condition-specific time trends. The separate regressions enabled survival 
comparisons for the 2004 and 2014 cohorts by race and sex, conditional on 
baseline health. We predicted 5-year survival for all combinations of diabetes, 
hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and ischemic heart disease (IHD). All 16 
combinations of these conditions showed survival gains, with diabetes as a key 
driver. Notably, survival improved and racial disparities narrowed for 
individuals with diabetes, hypertension, and IHD. White females, black females, 
white males, and black males gained 3.61, 3.90, 3.57, and 5.89 percentage points 
in 5-year survival, respectively.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.4168
PMID: 32996226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Med Decis Making. 2020 Oct;40(7):862-872. doi: 10.1177/0272989X20951778.
Epub  2020 Sep 30.

Incorporating Mortality in Health Utility Measures.

Dewitt B(1), Torrance GW(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Engineering & Public Policy, Carnegie Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(2)Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, ON, Canada.

The creation of multiattribute health utility systems requires design choices 
that have profound effects on the utility model, many of which have been 
documented and studied in the literature. Here we describe one design choice 
that has, to the best of our knowledge, been unrecognized and therefore ignored. 
It can emerge in any multiattribute decision analysis in which one or more 
essential outcomes cannot be described in terms of the multiattribute space. In 
health applications, the state of being dead is such an outcome. When the 
remaining health is conceptualized as a multidimensional space, determining the 
utility of the state of being dead requires using the interval-scale properties 
of cardinal utility, combined with elicited utilities for the state of being 
dead and the all-worst state, to produce a utility function in which the state 
of being dead has a utility of 0 and full health has a utility of 1 (i.e., the 
quality-adjusted life-year scale). Although previously unrecognized, there are 
two approaches to accomplish that step, and they produce different results in 
almost all cases. As a corollary, the choice of approach determines the 
proportion of states rated as worse than dead by the system. For example, in the 
Health Utility Index 3 (HUI3), the method used classifies 78% of the 972,000 
unique health states in the classification system as worse than dead, and that 
proportion increases to 85% when the HUI3 is recalculated using the alternative 
approach. Studies of populations with significant morbidity are the most likely 
to be sensitive to the design choice. Those who design utility measures should 
be aware that they are using a researcher degree of freedom when they decide how 
to scale the state of being dead.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X20951778
PMID: 32996355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2020 Oct;26(10):1236-1242. doi: 
10.18553/jmcp.2020.26.10.1236.

The Effect of Dose Escalation on the Cost-Effectiveness of Etanercept and 
Adalimumab with Methotrexate Among Patients with Moderate to Severe Rheumatoid 
Arthritis.

Incerti D(1), Hernandez EJM(2), Tkacz J(3), Jansen JP(1), Collier D(2), 
Gharaibeh M(2), Moore-Schiltz L(3), Stolshek BS(2).

Author information:
(1)Precision Health Economics, Oakland, California.
(2)Amgen, Thousand Oaks, California.
(3)IBM Watson Health, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: Patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis (RA) 
occasionally increase their doses of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors, 
especially the monoclonal antibody origin drugs such as adalimumab and 
infliximab, after inadequate response to the initial dose. Previous studies have 
evaluated the cost-effectiveness of various sequences of treatment for RA in the 
United States but have not considered the effect of dose escalation.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of etanercept and adalimumab by 
incorporating the effect of dose escalation in moderate to severe RA patients.
METHODS: We adapted the open-source Innovation and Value Initiative - Rheumatoid 
Arthritis model, version 1.0 to separately simulate the magnitude and time to 
dose escalation among RA patients taking adalimumab plus methotrexate or 
etanercept plus methotrexate from a societal perspective and lifetime horizon. 
An important assumption in the model was that dose escalation would increase 
treatment costs through its effect on the number of doses but would have no 
effect on effectiveness. We estimated the dose escalation parameters using the 
IBM MarketScan Commercial and Medicare Supplemental Databases. We fit competing 
parametric survival models to model time to dose escalation and used model 
diagnostics to compare the fit of the competing models. We measured the 
magnitude of dose escalation as the percentage increase in the number of doses 
conditional on dose escalation. Finally, we used the parameterized model to 
simulate treatment sequences beginning with a TNF inhibitor (adalimumab, 
etanercept) followed by nonbiologic treatment.
RESULTS: In baseline models without dose escalation, the incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year of the etanercept treatment sequence relative to the 
adalimumab treatment sequence was $85,593. Incorporating dose escalation 
increased treatment costs for each sequence, but costs increased more with 
adalimumab, lowering the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio to $9,001. At 
willingness-to-pay levels of $100,000, the etanercept sequence was more 
cost-effective compared with the adalimumab sequence, with probability 0.55 and 
0.85 in models with and without dose escalation, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Dose escalation has important effects on cost-effectiveness and 
should be considered when comparing biologic medications for the treatment of 
RA.
DISCLOSURES: Funding for this study was contributed by Amgen. When this work was 
conducted, Incerti and Jansen were employees of Precision Health Economics, 
which received financial support from Amgen. Maksabedian Hernandez, Collier, 
Gharaibeh, and Stolshek were employees and stockholders of Amgen, and Tkacz and 
Moore-Schiltz were employees of IBM Watson Health, which received financial 
support from Amgen. Some of the results of this work were previously presented 
as a poster at the 2019 AMCP Managed Care & Specialty Pharmacy Annual Meeting, 
March 25-28, 2019, in San Diego, CA.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2020.26.10.1236
PMCID: PMC10391279
PMID: 32996384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Funding for this study was contributed by Amgen. 
When this work was conducted, Incerti and Jansen were employees of Precision 
Health Economics, which received financial support from Amgen. Maksabedian 
Hernandez, Collier, Gharaibeh, and Stolshek were employees and stockholders of 
Amgen, and Tkacz and Moore-Schiltz were employees of IBM Watson Health, which 
received financial support from Amgen. Some of the results of this work were 
previously presented as a poster at the 2019 AMCP Managed Care & Specialty 
Pharmacy Annual Meeting, March 25-28, 2019, in San Diego, CA


123. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2020 Oct;26(10):1219-1231. doi: 
10.18553/jmcp.2020.26.10.1219.

Cost-Effectiveness of Treatment Strategies with Biologics in Accordance with 
Treatment Guidelines for Ankylosing Spondylitis: A Patient-Level Model.

Le QA(1), Kang JH(1), Lee S(2), Delevry D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice and Administration, College of Pharmacy, 
Western University of Health Sciences, Pomona, California.
(2)Department of Clinical Sciences, Fred Wilson School of Pharmacy, High Point 
University, High Point, North Carolina.

BACKGROUND: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a form of rheumatic disease caused by 
chronic inflammation of the axial skeleton. Patients with AS experience 
significant functional limitations and reduced quality of life. Consequently, AS 
imposes a substantial economic burden on society due to productivity loss and 
work disability. Biologics, including tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors and 
human anti-interleukin-17A monoclonal antibody (IL-17A) agents, are effective 
treatment strategies in relieving symptoms and slowing down disease progression. 
Currently, 5 TNF inhibitors and 2 IL-17A antibody agents are approved by the FDA 
for the management of AS. Of these agents, there is no clear preferred agent in 
initial biologic therapy, although an IL-17A antibody agent or alternative TNF 
inhibitor agent is recommended after failure of the initial TNF inhibitor 
therapy.
OBJECTIVE: To assess cost-effectiveness of treatment strategies with biologics, 
TNF inhibitor or IL-17A, in accordance with the treatment guidelines for 
patients with AS.
METHODS: An economic patient-level simulation combining decision-tree and Markov 
models was constructed from the U.S. health care payer's perspective over a 
10-year time horizon. The current model examined 5 treatment strategies: (1) 
conventional care treatment with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, (2) 1 TNF 
inhibitor, (3) an IL-17A antibody agent, (4) sequential therapy with 2 TNF 
inhibitors, and (5) sequential therapy with a TNF inhibitor followed by an 
IL-17A antibody agent. Initially, treatment responses were determined after 
12-week treatments. Patients who responded to treatment entered a "responders" 
Markov model. Patients entered a "nonresponders" Markov model if they 
inadequately responded to treatment. In sequential treatment strategies, 
patients who inadequately responded to treatment with the first TNF inhibitor 
received a second TNF inhibitor or an IL-17A antibody agent. Health utility was 
estimated based on the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index 
(BASDAI) and Functional Index (BASFI) scores. The models accounted for 
real-world adherence to TNF inhibitor treatment. Scenario and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses were performed to test the robustness and uncertainty of 
the model results.
RESULTS: Over a 10-year time horizon and 100,000 simulated patients for each 
treatment strategy, base-case results produced average total discounted 
per-patient costs of $19,765, $130,302, $159,934, $190,553, and $179,118 and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) of 4.675, 5.410, 5.499, 5.919, and 5.893 for 
conventional care, treatment strategies with 1 TNF inhibitor, an IL-17A, 2 TNF 
inhibitors, and a TNF inhibitor followed by an IL-17A, respectively. The optimal 
treatments at willingness-to-pay (WTP) thresholds ≤ $130,813 per QALY, between 
$130,813 per QALY and $442,728 per QALY, and > $442,728 per QALY were 
conventional care and sequential treatment strategies with 1 TNF inhibitor, 
followed by an IL-17A agent and 2 TNF inhibitors, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Study findings suggested that all treatment strategies with 
biologics, TNF inhibitors or IL-17A antibody agents, in the treatment guidelines 
for AS were not cost-effective at the common WTP of $100,000 per QALY. However, 
the sequential treatment with 1 TNF inhibitor followed by an IL-17A antibody 
agent was considered cost-effective at a higher WTP of $150,000 per QALY.
DISCLOSURES: No outside funding supported this study. The authors have nothing 
to disclose. Primary findings of this study were presented in part at the 
International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research (ISPOR) in 
Baltimore, MD, May 2018.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2020.26.10.1219
PMCID: PMC10391255
PMID: 32996395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No outside funding supported this study. The 
authors have nothing to disclose. Primary findings of this study were presented 
in part at the International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR) in Baltimore, MD, May 2018.


124. Top Stroke Rehabil. 2021 Jul;28(5):390-400. doi:
10.1080/10749357.2020.1818473.  Epub 2020 Sep 30.

A scoping review of psychoeducational interventions for people after transient 
ischemic attack and minor stroke.

Kontou E(1), Kettlewell J(2), Condon L(2), Thomas S(1), Lee AR(1), Sprigg N(3), 
Watkins DC(4), Walker MF(1), Shokraneh F(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Rehabilitation, Ageing & Wellbeing, B Floor, The Medical School, 
Queens Medical Centre, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.
(2)Division of Primary Care, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.
(3)Division of Clinical Neuroscience, Clinical Sciences Building, City Hospital 
Campus, Nottingham, UK.
(4)Faculty of Health & Care, University of Central Lancashire, Preston, UK.
(5)King's Technology Evaluation Centre, London Institute of Healthcare 
Engineering, School of Biomedical Engineering and Imaging Sciences, Faculty of 
Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College London, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Psychoeducation can provide information and support to cope with the 
physical and emotional effects of a health condition. This scoping review aimed 
to identify the evidence regarding psychoeducational interventions for people 
after a Transient Ischemic Attack (TIA) and minor stroke.
METHODS: This review was conducted in accordance with the PRISMA Extension for 
Scoping Reviews. Three electronic databases (MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO) were 
searched for articles on interventions related to psychoeducational support 
post-TIA and minor/mild stroke. Search retrieved 3722 articles. Three reviewers 
independently screened titles, abstracts, full-texts, and extracted data for 
included studies. Study quality was assessed using the JADAD scale. TIDieR 
checklist was used to describe interventions.
RESULTS: Fifteen RCTs were included. Twelve studies were of high quality (JADAD 
score ≥2), two were of low quality. A total of 1500 participants were recruited 
across studies. Definition of TIA and minor stroke was unclear, leading to the 
exclusion of several studies. Various interventions were included, including 
education/psychoeducation (n = 4); exercise and lifestyle advice (n = 3); 
telephone-based education/counseling (n = 3); secondary prevention education 
(n = 1); motivational interviewing (n = 2); self-management (n = 2). 
Interventions were inconsistently described, with information missing about who 
delivered it and tailoring.
CONCLUSIONS: Definitions of stroke severity are not adequately reported. There 
are a variety of interventions including education about a range of 
stroke-specific topics. Many interventions are not adequately described, thus 
making it difficult to determine if the aim was to provide information or 
support post-TIA/minor stroke. There is a need for an in-depth systematic review 
to develop a clear definition of psychoeducation.

DOI: 10.1080/10749357.2020.1818473
PMID: 32996432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Exp Oncol. 2020 Sep;42(3):167-171. doi: 
10.32471/exp-oncology.2312-8852.vol-42-no-3.14822.

Prognostic significance of microRNA-200b and ERCC1 expression in tumor cells of 
patients with esophageal cancer.

Kirkilevsky SI(1), Krakhmalev PS *(1), Malyshok NV(2), Zadvornyi TV(3), Borikun 
TV(3), Yalovenko TM(2).

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Institute of Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Kyiv 03022, 
Ukraine.
(2)Clinic of Personalized Design, Diagnostics and Therapy "Oncoteranostics", 
Kyiv 03022, Ukraine.
(3)R.E. Kavetsky Institute of Experimental Pathology, Oncology and Radiobiology, 
National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Kyiv 03022, Ukraine.

BACKGROUND: The development of malignant tumors, including esophageal cancer 
(EC), could be associated with impaired expression of oncosuppressive miRNA-200b 
and еxcision repair cross-complementing group-1 (ERCC1), a protein involved in 
DNA repair and alternative splicing.
AIM: To investigate the features of expression of miRNA-200b and ERCC1 in tumor 
cells of patients with EC and to determine the possibility of their use for 
prediction of EC aggressiveness.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 52 patients with EC of stages II-IV were enrolled. 
Expression of ERCC1 in tumor cells was assessed by immunohistochemical method, 
expression of miRNA-200b was evaluated by the real time reverse 
transcription-polymerase chain reaction.
RESULTS: The expression of miRNA-200b and ERCC1 in tumor cells of EC patients is 
associated with their life expectancy. The characteristic features of neoplasms 
in patients who died within 12 months are low expression of miRNA-200b (2.87 ± 
1.65 a.u.) (ρ = -0.42; p < 0.05) and high expression of ERCC1 (191.0 ± 
18.6 H-Score points) (ρ = -0.48; p < 0.05). The inverse correlations between the 
level of miRNA-200b expression and the tumor size were found both in the group 
of patients with survival < 12 months (ρ = -0.42; p < 0.05) and in the group of 
patients with survival > 12 months after surgery (ρ = -0.53; p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The obtained data indicate the feasibility of using the expression 
of miRNA-200b and ERCC1 in EC cells to predict the aggressiveness of esophageal 
cancer.

DOI: 10.32471/exp-oncology.2312-8852.vol-42-no-3.14822
PMID: 32996747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Age Ageing. 2021 Feb 26;50(2):465-471. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afaa159.

Deprescribing in older people approaching end-of-life: development and 
validation of STOPPFrail version 2.

Curtin D(1)(2), Gallagher P(1)(2), O'Mahony D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine (Geriatrics), University College Cork, Cork T12 DC4A, 
Ireland.
(2)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Cork University Hospital, Cork T12 DC4A, 
Ireland.

BACKGROUND: Screening Tool of Older Persons Prescriptions in Frail adults with 
limited life expectancy (STOPPFrail) criteria were developed in 2017 to assist 
physicians with deprescribing decisions in older people approaching end-of-life. 
Updating was required to make the tool more practical, patient-centred and 
complete.
METHODS: a thorough literature review was conducted to, first, devise a 
practical method for identifying older people who are likely to be approaching 
end-of-life, and second, reassess and update the existing deprescribing 
criteria. An eight-member panel with a wide-ranging experience in geriatric 
pharmacotherapy reviewed a new draft of STOPPFrail and were invited to propose 
new deprescribing criteria. STOPPFrail version 2 was then validated using Delphi 
consensus methodology.
RESULTS: STOPPFrail version 2 emphasises the importance of shared 
decision-making in the deprescribing process. A new method for identifying older 
people who are likely to be approaching end-of-life is included along with 25 
deprescribing criteria. Guidance relating to the deprescribing of 
antihypertensive therapies, anti-anginal medications and vitamin D preparations 
comprises the new criteria.
CONCLUSIONS: STOPPFrail criteria have been updated to assist physicians in 
efforts to reduce drug-related morbidity and burden for their frailest older 
patients. Version 2 is based on an up-to-date literature review and consensus 
validation by a panel of experts.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Geriatrics Society. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afaa159
PMID: 32997135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. J Health Commun. 2020 Jul 2;25(7):576-583. doi:
10.1080/10810730.2020.1822471.  Epub 2020 Sep 30.

Promoting Sustained and Exclusive Breastfeeding among Chinese American Pregnant 
Women.

Bresnahan M(1), Goldbort J(2), Zhuang J(3), Bogdan-Lovis E(4), Yan X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Communication, Michigan State University , East Lansing, 
Michigan, USA.
(2)College of Nursing, Michigan State University , East Lansing, Michigan, USA.
(3)Department of Communication Studies, Texas Christian University , Fort Worth, 
Texas, USA.
(4)College of Human Medicine, Michigan State University , East Lansing, 
Michigan, USA.

This study investigated prenatal goal setting and breastfeeding attitudes and 
intentions for 210 Chinese American pregnant women. In addition, this study 
assessed impact of person-centered versus factual messages on breastfeeding 
attitudes and intentions. While pregnant women reported receiving information 
about Baby-Friendly designated hospitals from healthcare providers, most 
received no breastfeeding information from those same providers. Although women 
had positive attitudes toward breastfeeding, they showed lack of knowledge about 
colostrum, general approval for using infant formula, as well as early 
introduction of complementary foods. By extension, these attitudes suggested 
they misunderstood the meaning of exclusive breastfeeding. No differences were 
observed based on parity, trimester of pregnancy, level of education or income. 
Person-centered and factual messages were judged as equally effective messages, 
but intention to breastfeed was more affected by the factual message. Reasons 
for this result are discussed. Healthcare providers are positioned to 
proactively engage in maternal preparedness for exclusive breastfeeding. These 
results suggested a missed opportunity for healthcare providers to communicate 
the value of sustained exclusive breastfeeding for the recommended first 6 
months of an infant's life and underscore a need for all antenatal healthcare 
providers to collaboratively ensure that breastfeeding information is 
comprehensively provided throughout the span of antenatal care.

DOI: 10.1080/10810730.2020.1822471
PMID: 32997611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. PLoS One. 2020 Sep 30;15(9):e0239911. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0239911. 
eCollection 2020.

Analytical volume model for optimized spatial radar bat detection in onshore 
wind parks.

Kreutzfeldt J(1), Floeter C(1), Lingner T(1), Schmitz-Beuting L(1), Reich M(2), 
Kunz VD(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Technology, Faculty of Life Sciences, University 
of Applied Sciences Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany.
(2)Institute of Environmental Planning, Leibniz University Hannover, Hannover, 
Germany.
(3)Department of Process Engineering, Faculty of Life Sciences, University of 
Applied Sciences Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany.

To develop mitigation measures for the protection of bats in close proximity to 
onshore wind turbines, new detection techniques covering large-scale 
environments and techniques, which are able to track individuals are required. 
Radar based observations, successfully applied in ornithological studies, offer 
a promising potential, but come with challenges regarding the comparability of 
measurements and noise interference (ground clutter) from objects within 
detection range. This paper presents improvements of a commercially available 
inexpensive pulse radar for 3D spatial detection of bat-sized objects in onshore 
wind parks. A new analytical spatial detection volume model is presented 
incorporating calibrated radar data and landscape parameters such as clutter. 
Computer simulation programs to process the analytical spatial detection volume 
model were developed. For model calibration, the minimum signal power of the 
radar was experimentally determined with the radar cross section (RCS) of an 
artificial bat (similar to Nyctalus noctula), resulting in a maximum detection 
range of 800 m and a corresponding RCS of 12.7 cm². Additionally, the spatial 
volume for radar detection was optimized with a clutter shielding fence (CSF). 
Adjusting the volume model by incorporating a theoretical model of the CSF, an 
extension of the detection volume by a factor of 2.5 was achieved, while the 
total volume of a 105° horizontal angular radar image section yields 0.0105 km³. 
Extrapolation and comparison with state-of-the-art acoustic bat detection result 
in a 270 times larger volume, confirming the large-scale detection capabilities 
of the pulse radar.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0239911
PMCID: PMC7526923
PMID: 32997717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


129. N Engl J Med. 2020 Oct 1;383(14):1293-1296. doi: 10.1056/NEJMp2016814.

Health in Aging - Past, Present, and Future.

Fried LP(1), Rowe JW(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center, Mailman School of Public 
Health, Columbia University, New York.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMp2016814
PMID: 32997905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Diabetes Metab. 2020 Nov;46(6):442-449. doi: 10.1016/j.diabet.2020.09.001.
Epub  2020 Sep 28.

Cardiovascular disease in type 1 diabetes: A review of epidemiological data and 
underlying mechanisms.

Vergès B(1).

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology-Diabetology Department, University Hospital and INSERM 
LNC-UMR1231, 21000 Dijon, France. Electronic address: bruno.verges@chu-dijon.fr.

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is highly prevalent in patients with type 1 
diabetes (T1D) and a major cause of mortality. CVD arises earlier in life in T1D 
patients and is responsible for a significant reduction of at least 11 years' 
life expectancy. Also, the incidence of CVD is much more pronounced in patients 
with T1D onset at an earlier age. However, the factors responsible for increased 
atherosclerosis and CVD in T1D are not yet totally clarified. In addition to the 
usual cardiovascular (CV) risk factors, chronic hyperglycaemia plays an 
important role by promoting oxidative stress, vascular inflammation, monocyte 
adhesion, arterial wall thickening and endothelial dysfunction. Diabetic 
nephropathy and cardiac autonomic neuropathy are also associated with increased 
CVD in T1D. In fact, the CVD risk remains significantly increased even in 
well-controlled T1D patients who have no additional CV risk factors, indicating 
that other potential factors are likely to be involved. Hypoglycemia and glucose 
variability could enhance CV disease by promoting oxidative stress, vascular 
inflammation and endothelial dysfunction. Furthermore, even well-controlled T1D 
patients show significant qualitative and functional abnormalities of 
lipoproteins that are likely to be implicated in the development of 
atherosclerosis and premature CVD. In addition, recent data suggest that a 
dysfunctional immune system, which is typical of autoimmune T1D, might also 
promote CVD possibly through inflammatory pathways. Moreover, overweight and 
obese T1D patients can manifest additional CV risk through pathophysiological 
mechanisms resembling those observed in type 2 diabetes (T2D).

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabet.2020.09.001
PMID: 32998054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Sensors (Basel). 2020 Sep 28;20(19):5565. doi: 10.3390/s20195565.

Determinism in Cyber-Physical Systems Specified by Interpreted Petri Nets.

Wisniewski R(1), Grobelna I(1), Karatkevich A(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Automatics, Electronics and Electrical Engineering, University 
of Zielona Góra, 65-417 Zielona Góra, Poland.
(2)Department of Applied Computer Science, AGH University of Science and 
Technology,30-059 Kraków, Poland.

In this paper, we study selected aspects of determinism in the control part of a 
cyber-physical system (CPS) that is specified by a Petri net-based model. In 
particular, the control interpreted Petri nets (CIPNs) are applied, which are an 
extension of the ordinary Petri nets, supplemented by signals (related to 
sensors and actuators) that permit communication with the environment. The 
notions of weak and strong determinism in a system described by a CIPN are 
introduced in the paper. The proposed concepts are supported by formal 
definitions and theorems. Moreover, a novel modelling methodology for a 
deterministic system specified by a CIPN is proposed. The presented solutions 
are illustrated by a case study example of a real-life cyber-physical system. 
Finally, the results of experimental verification of the proposed 
determinism-based techniques are demonstrated and discussed.

DOI: 10.3390/s20195565
PMCID: PMC7582862
PMID: 32998420

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


132. BMC Med. 2020 Oct 1;18(1):261. doi: 10.1186/s12916-020-01713-8.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) as a neglected metabolic companion of 
psychiatric disorders: common pathways and future approaches.

Soto-Angona Ó(1)(2), Anmella G(3)(4), Valdés-Florido MJ(5), De Uribe-Viloria 
N(3)(6), Carvalho AF(3)(7)(8), Penninx BWJH(9), Berk M(3)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Vall d'Hebron University Hospital, Passeig de la 
Vall d'Hebron, 119-129, 08035, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. osoto@vhebron.net.
(2)Deakin University, IMPACT, The Institute for Mental and Physical Health and 
Clinical Translation, School of Medicine, Barwon Health, Geelong, Australia. 
osoto@vhebron.net.
(3)Deakin University, IMPACT, The Institute for Mental and Physical Health and 
Clinical Translation, School of Medicine, Barwon Health, Geelong, Australia.
(4)Bipolar and Depressive Disorders Unit, Institute of Neuroscience, Hospital 
Clinic, University of Barcelona, IDIBAPS, CIBERSAM, 170 Villarroel st, 12-0, 
08036, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(5)UGC Salud Mental, Hospital Universitario Virgen Macarena, Seville, Spain.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Hospital Clínico Universitario de Valladolid, 
Castilla y León, Spain.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(8)Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH), Toronto, ON, Canada.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, Amsterdam Public Health and Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam University Medical Center/Vrije Universiteit & GGZinGeest, Amsterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(10)Orygen, The National Centre of Excellence in Youth Mental Health, the 
Department of Psychiatry, and the Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental 
Health, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by 
hepatic steatosis in over 5% of the parenchyma in the absence of excessive 
alcohol consumption. It is more prevalent in patients with diverse mental 
disorders, being part of the comorbidity driving loss of life expectancy and 
quality of life, yet remains a neglected entity. NAFLD can progress to 
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and increases the risk for cirrhosis and 
hepatic carcinoma. Both NAFLD and mental disorders share pathophysiological 
pathways, and also present a complex, bidirectional relationship with the 
metabolic syndrome (MetS) and related cardiometabolic diseases.
MAIN TEXT: This review compares the demographic data on NAFLD and NASH among the 
global population and the psychiatric population, finding differences that 
suggest a higher incidence of this disease among the latter. It also analyzes 
the link between NAFLD and psychiatric disorders, looking into common 
pathophysiological pathways, such as metabolic, genetic, and lifestyle factors. 
Finally, possible treatments, tailored approaches, and future research 
directions are suggested.
CONCLUSION: NAFLD is part of a complex system of mental and non-communicable 
somatic disorders with a common pathogenesis, based on shared lifestyle and 
environmental risks, mediated by dysregulation of inflammation, oxidative stress 
pathways, and mitochondrial function. The recognition of the prevalent 
comorbidity between NAFLD and mental disorders is required to inform clinical 
practice and develop novel interventions to prevent and treat these complex and 
interacting disorders.

DOI: 10.1186/s12916-020-01713-8
PMCID: PMC7528270
PMID: 32998725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests germane to this paper.


133. Oncol Rep. 2020 Nov;44(5):2198-2210. doi: 10.3892/or.2020.7778. Epub 2020
Sep  22.

Selection of microRNAs in extracellular vesicles for diagnosis of malignant 
pleural mesothelioma by in vitro analysis.

Jotatsu T(1), Izumi H(2), Morimoto Y(2), Yatera K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, University of Occupational and 
Environmental Health, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka 807‑8555, Japan.
(2)Department of Occupational Pneumology, Institute of Industrial Ecological 
Sciences, University of Occupational and Environmental Health, Kitakyushu, 
Fukuoka 807‑8555, Japan.

Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a malignant tumor which is a challenge 
for diagnosis and is associated with a poor patient prognosis. Thus, early 
diagnostic interventions will improve the quality of life and life expectancy of 
these patients. Recently, cellular microRNAs (miRNAs) have been found to be 
involved in maintaining homeostasis, and abnormal miRNA expression has often 
been observed in various diseases including cancer. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) 
released by many cells contain proteins and nucleic acids. miRNAs are secreted 
from all cells via EVs and circulate throughout the body. In this study, culture 
media were passed sequentially through membrane filters 220‑50 nm in size, and 
EVs with diameters of 50 to 220 nm (EVcap50/220) were collected. miRNAs 
(EV50‑miRNAs) in EVcap50/220 were purified, and microarray analysis was 
performed. EV50‑miRNA expression profiles were compared between MPM cells and a 
normal pleural mesothelial cell line, and six EV50‑miRNAs were selected for 
further investigation. Of these, hsa‑miR‑193a‑5p and hsa‑miR‑551b‑5p 
demonstrated higher expression in MPM‑derived EVcap50/220. These miRNAs reduced 
the expression of several genes involved in cell‑cell interactions and 
cell‑matrix interactions in normal pleural mesothelial cells. Our data suggest 
that hsa‑miR‑193a‑5p and hsa‑miR‑551b‑5p in EVcap50/220 could be diagnostic 
markers for MPM.

DOI: 10.3892/or.2020.7778
PMCID: PMC7551269
PMID: 33000251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Rev Endocr Metab Disord. 2021 Dec;22(4):665-680. doi: 
10.1007/s11154-020-09596-z. Epub 2020 Oct 1.

Overheating or overcooling: heat transfer in the spot to fight against the 
pandemic obesity.

Manfredi LH(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Biomedical Sciences, Federal University of Fronteira Sul, 
Chapecó, Santa Catarina, Brazil. leandrohm@gmail.com.

The prevalence of obesity has nearly doubled worldwide over the past three and a 
half decades, reaching pandemic status. Obesity is associated with decreased 
life expectancy and with an increased risk of metabolic, cardiovascular, nervous 
system diseases. Hence, understanding the mechanisms involved in the onset and 
development of obesity is mandatory to promote planned health actions to revert 
this scenario. In this review, common aspects of cold exposure, a process of 
heat generation, and exercise, a process of heat dissipation, will be discussed 
as two opposite mechanisms of obesity, which can be oversimplified as caloric 
conservation. A common road between heat generation and dissipation is the 
mobilization of Free Faty Acids (FFA) and Carbohydrates (CHO). An increase in 
energy expenditure (immediate effect) and molecular/metabolic adaptations 
(chronic effect) are responses that depend on SNS activity in both conditions of 
heat transfer. This cycle of using and removing FFA and CHO from blood either 
for heat or force generation disrupt the key concept of obesity: energy 
accumulation. Despite efforts in making the anti-obesity pill, maybe it is time 
to consider that the world's population is living at thermoneutrality since 
temperature-controlled places and the lack of exercise are favoring caloric 
accumulation.

© 2020. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11154-020-09596-z
PMID: 33000381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2021 Oct 30;76(9):1745-1755. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbaa169.

Adult Children's Daily Experiences With Parental Advice: The Importance of Life 
Problems and Relationship Quality.

Wang H(1), Kim K(2), Burr JA(2), Birditt KS(3), Fingerman KL(4).

Author information:
(1)Population Research Institute, The Pennsylvania State University, University 
Park.
(2)Department of Gerontology, John W. McCormack Graduate School of Policy and 
Global Studies, University of Massachusetts Boston.
(3)Institute for Social Research, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
(4)Department of Human Development and Family Sciences, The University of Texas 
at Austin.

OBJECTIVES: Parents often provide advice to their adult children during their 
everyday interactions. This study investigated young adult children's daily 
experiences with parental advice in U.S. families. Specifically, the study 
examined how receiving advice and evaluations of parental advice were associated 
with children's life problems, parent-child relationship quality, and daily 
mood.
METHODS: Young adult children (aged 18-30 years; participant N = 152) reported 
whether they received any advice and perceived any unwanted advice from each 
parent (parent N = 235) for 7 days using a daily diary design (participant-day N 
= 948). Adult children also reported their positive and negative mood on each 
interview day.
RESULTS: Results from multilevel models revealed that adult children who 
reported a more positive relationship with their parents were more likely to 
receive advice from the parent, whereas adult children who had a more strained 
relationship with their parents were more likely to perceive advice from the 
parent as unwanted. Receiving advice from the mother was associated with 
increased positive mood, whereas unwanted advice from any parent was associated 
with increased negative mood. Furthermore, the link between unwanted advice and 
negative mood varied by children's life problems and parent-child relationship 
quality.
DISCUSSION: Indeed, parental advice is not "the more the better," especially 
when the advice is unsolicited. This study highlights the importance of 
perceptions of family support for emerging adults' well-being.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbaa169
PMCID: PMC8557851
PMID: 33001209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2020 Oct 2;69(39):1428-1433. doi: 
10.15585/mmwr.mm6939a6.

Deaths and Years of Potential Life Lost From Excessive Alcohol Use - United 
States, 2011-2015.

Esser MB, Sherk A, Liu Y, Naimi TS, Stockwell T, Stahre M, Kanny D, Landen M, 
Saitz R, Brewer RD.

Corrected and republished from
    MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2020 Jul 31;69(30):981-987.

Excessive alcohol use is a leading cause of preventable death in the United 
States (1) and costs associated with it, such as those from losses in workplace 
productivity, health care expenditures, and criminal justice, were $249 billion 
in 2010 (2). CDC used the Alcohol-Related Disease Impact (ARDI) application* to 
estimate national and state average annual alcohol-attributable deaths and years 
of potential life lost (YPLL) during 2011-2015, including deaths from one's own 
excessive drinking (e.g., liver disease) and from others' drinking (e.g., 
passengers killed in alcohol-related motor vehicle crashes). This study found an 
average of 95,158 alcohol-attributable deaths (261 deaths per day) and 2.8 
million YPLL (29 years of life lost per death, on average) in the United States 
each year. Of all alcohol-attributable deaths, 51,078 (53.7%) were caused by 
chronic conditions, and 52,921 (55.6%) involved adults aged 35-64 years. 
Age-adjusted alcohol-attributable deaths per 100,000 population ranged from 20.8 
in New York to 53.1 in New Mexico. YPLL per 100,000 population ranged from 631.9 
in New York to 1,683.5 in New Mexico. Implementation of effective strategies for 
preventing excessive drinking, including those recommended by the Community 
Preventive Services Task Force (e.g., increasing alcohol taxes and regulating 
the number and concentration of alcohol outlets), could reduce 
alcohol-attributable deaths and YPLL.†.

DOI: 10.15585/mmwr.mm6939a6
PMCID: PMC7537556
PMID: 33001874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors have completed and submitted the 
International Committee of Medical Journal Editors form for disclosure of 
potential conflicts of interest. Timothy Stockwell reports grants and personal 
fees from Alko, Finland, outside the submitted work. Richard Saitz reports 
nonfinancial support from Alkermes; personal fees from UpToDate and 
Massachusetts Medical Society; support and consulting fees from the National 
Institute on Drug Abuse, the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, 
and the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute; travel support and 
consulting fees from the American Medical Association, the American Society of 
Addiction Medicine, Wolters Kluwer, National Council on Behavioral Healthcare, 
the International Network on Brief Intervention for Alcohol and other drugs, 
Systembolaget, Kaiser Permanente, RAND, the Institute for Research and Training 
in the Addictions, the National Council on Behavioral Healthcare, Charles 
University (Czech Republic), National Committee on Quality Assurance, and the 
University of Oregon; and salary support from Burroughs Wellcome Fund. No other 
potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.


137. PLoS One. 2020 Oct 1;15(10):e0238746. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0238746. 
eCollection 2020.

A novel family of lifetime distribution with applications to real and simulated 
data.

Ijaz M(1), Mashwani WK(2), Belhaouari SB(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Peshawar, Peshawar, Pakistan.
(2)Institute of Numerical Sciences, Kohat University of Science &Technology, 
Kohat, Pakistan.
(3)Division of Information and Computing Technology, College of Science and 
Engineering, Hamad Bin Khalifa University, Ar-Rayyan, Qatar.

The paper investigates a new scheme for generating lifetime probability 
distributions. The scheme is called Exponential- H family of distribution. The 
paper presents an application of this family by using the Weibull distribution, 
the new distribution is then called New Flexible Exponential distribution or in 
short NFE. Various statistical properties are derived, such as quantile 
function, order statistics, moments, etc. Two real-life data sets and a 
simulation study have been performed so that to assure the flexibility of the 
proposed model. It has been declared that the proposed distribution offers nice 
results than Exponential, Weibull Exponential, and Exponentiated Exponential 
distribution.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0238746
PMCID: PMC7529267
PMID: 33002015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


138. PLoS Pathog. 2020 Oct 1;16(10):e1008881. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1008881. 
eCollection 2020 Oct.

Periodontal pathogens promote cancer aggressivity via TLR/MyD88 triggered 
activation of Integrin/FAK signaling that is therapeutically reversible by a 
probiotic bacteriocin.

Kamarajan P(1)(2), Ateia I(3), Shin JM(4)(5), Fenno JC(6), Le C(1), Zhan L(1), 
Chang A(7), Darveau R(7), Kapila YL(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orofacial Sciences, School of Dentistry, University of 
California, San Francisco, CA, United States of America.
(2)Department of Periodontics and Oral Medicine, School of Dentistry, University 
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, United States of America.
(3)Department of Oral Medicine and Periodontology, Mansoura University, 
Mansoura, Egypt.
(4)Department of Cariology, Restorative Sciences, and Endodontics, School of 
Dentistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, United States of America.
(5)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI, United States of America.
(6)Biologic and Materials Sciences, School of Dentistry, University of Michigan, 
Ann arbor, MI, United States of America.
(7)Department of Periodontics, Oral Health Sciences, School of Dentistry, 
University of Washington, Seattle, WA, United States of America.

Epidemiological studies reveal significant associations between periodontitis 
and oral cancer. However, knowledge about the contribution of periodontal 
pathogens to oral cancer and potential regulatory mechanisms involved is 
limited. Previously, we showed that nisin, a bacteriocin and commonly used food 
preservative, reduced oral cancer tumorigenesis and extended the life expectancy 
in tumor-bearing mice. In addition, nisin has antimicrobial effects on key 
periodontal pathogens. Thus, the purpose of this study was to test the 
hypothesis that key periodontal pathogens (Porphyromonas gingivalis, Treponema 
denticola, and Fusobacterium nucleatum) promote oral cancer via specific 
host-bacterial interactions, and that bacteriocin/nisin therapy may modulate 
these responses. All three periodontal pathogens enhanced oral squamous cell 
carcinoma (OSCC) cell migration, invasion, tumorsphere formation, and 
tumorigenesis in vivo, without significantly affecting cell proliferation or 
apoptosis. In contrast, oral commensal bacteria did not affect OSCC cell 
migration. Pathogen-enhanced OSCC cell migration was mediated via integrin alpha 
V and FAK activation, since stably blocking alpha V or FAK expression abrogated 
these effects. Nisin inhibited these pathogen-mediated processes. Further, 
Treponema denticola induced TLR2 and 4 and MyD88 expression. Stable suppression 
of MyD88 significantly inhibited Treponema denticola-induced FAK activation and 
abrogated pathogen-induced migration. Together, these data demonstrate that 
periodontal pathogens contribute to a highly aggressive cancer phenotype via 
crosstalk between TLR/MyD88 and integrin/FAK signaling. Nisin can modulate these 
pathogen-mediated effects, and thus has therapeutic potential as an 
antimicrobial and anti-tumorigenic agent.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1008881
PMCID: PMC7529280
PMID: 33002094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


139. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2021 Apr 1;109(5):1185-1194. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2020.09.045. Epub 2020 Sep 28.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Stereotactic Ablative Radiation Therapy in 
Patients With Oligometastatic Cancer.

Kumar A(1), Straka C(1), Courtney PT(1), Vitzthum L(1), Riviere P(1), Murphy 
JD(2).

