Psychiatry Research, Stockholm Health Care Services, Stockholm County Council, 
Stockholm, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Adolescent depression has negative health and economic outcomes in 
the short- and long-term. Indicated preventive interventions, in particular 
group based cognitive behavioural therapy (GB-CBT), are effective in preventing 
depression in adolescents with subsyndromal depression. However, little is known 
about the cost-effectiveness of these interventions.
METHODS: A Markov cohort model was used to conduct cost-effectiveness analyses 
comparing a GB-CBT indicated preventive intervention for depression, to a 
no-intervention option in a Swedish setting. Taking a time horizon of 5- and 10 
years, incremental differences in societal costs and health benefits expressed 
as differences in the proportion of cases of depression prevented, and as 
quality adjusted life years (QALYs) gained were estimated. Through univariate 
and probabilistic sensitivity analyses, the robustness of the results was 
explored. Costs, presented in 2018 USD, and effects were discounted at a yearly 
rate of 3%.
RESULTS: The base-case analysis showed that GB-CBT indicated preventive 
intervention incurred lower costs, prevented a larger proportion of cases of 
depression and generated higher QALYs compared to the no-intervention option for 
both time horizons. Offering the intervention was even a cost saving strategy 
and demonstrated a probability of being cost-effective of over 95%. In the 
sensitivity analyses, these results were robust to the modelling assumptions.
LIMITATIONS: The study considered a homogeneous cohort and assumed a constant 
annual decay rate of the relative treatment effect.
CONCLUSIONS: GB-CBT indicated preventive interventions for depression in 
adolescence can generate good value for money compared to leaving adolescents 
with subsyndromal depression untreated.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2020.08.076
PMID: 33065819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Brain Sci. 2020 Oct 13;10(10):723. doi: 10.3390/brainsci10100723.

Palliative Care in High-Grade Glioma: A Review.

Crooms RC(1), Goldstein NE(1)(2), Diamond EL(3), Vickrey BG(1).

Author information:
(1)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 1 Gustave L. Levy Pl, New York, NY 
10029, USA.
(2)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, James J. Peters VA Medical 
Center, 130 Kingsbridge Avenue, Bronx, NY 10468, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York 
Avenue, New York, NY 10065, USA.

High-grade glioma (HGG) is characterized by debilitating neurologic symptoms and 
poor prognosis. Some of the suffering this disease engenders may be ameliorated 
through palliative care, which improves quality of life for seriously ill 
patients by optimizing symptom management and psychosocial support, which can be 
delivered concurrently with cancer-directed treatments. In this article, we 
review palliative care needs associated with HGG and identify opportunities for 
primary and specialty palliative care interventions. Patients with HGG and their 
caregivers experience high levels of distress due to physical, emotional, and 
cognitive symptoms that negatively impact quality of life and functional 
independence, all in the context of limited life expectancy. However, patients 
typically have limited contact with specialty palliative care until the end of 
life, and there is no established model for ensuring their palliative care needs 
are met throughout the disease course. We identify low rates of advance care 
planning, misconceptions about palliative care being synonymous with end-of-life 
care, and the unique neurologic needs of this patient population as some of the 
potential barriers to increased palliative interventions. Further research is 
needed to define the optimal roles of neuro-oncologists and palliative care 
specialists in the management of this illness and to establish appropriate 
timing and models for palliative care delivery.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci10100723
PMCID: PMC7599762
PMID: 33066030

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflict of interest. 
Diamond discloses nonfinancial support from Third Rock Ventures, outside the 
submitted work.


318. Materials (Basel). 2020 Oct 13;13(20):4535. doi: 10.3390/ma13204535.

Concrete Repair Durability.

Czarnecki L(1), Geryło R(1), Kuczyński K(1).

Author information:
(1)Building Research Institute, ITB, Filtrowa 1, 00-611 Warsaw, Poland.

The repairs of building structures are inevitable and indispensable. Repairs are 
used to restore or maintain the usability of existing facilities, often 
contributing to the extension of their expected service life, increasing the 
sustainability of building resources. Given that conservation rules are 
observed, repairs are also used to save monuments. The concept of repair 
durability brings to the foreground the durability of the repaired structure 
(after repair): what service life has been obtained/recovered as a result of the 
repair. Based on the available data (limited set), a generalised distribution 
function of repair durability was developed, with a disappointing course. This, 
however, applies (necessarily) to the past. Significant progress was shown to 
have been achieved in the theoretical and technical fundamentals of technical 
repair measures. In this situation, a prognostic distribution function was also 
designed for future repairs according to EN 1504. A rule of thumb called 
estimating concrete repair durability, CRD was proposed. The risk associated 
with estimating the durability of repairs was indicated. A reason for optimism 
is that proactive monitoring of the condition of the structure and, 
consequently, management of the repair strategy allows to reach the designed 
life of the structure.

DOI: 10.3390/ma13204535
PMCID: PMC7600629
PMID: 33066087

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


319. Biomolecules. 2020 Oct 14;10(10):1443. doi: 10.3390/biom10101443.

Comparative Analysis of Cx31 and Cx43 in Differentiation-Competent Rodent 
Keratinocytes.

Au A(1), Shao Q(2), White KK(2), Lucaciu SA(1), Esseltine JL(3), Barr K(2), 
Laird DW(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of Western Ontario, 
London, ON N6A 5C1, Canada.
(2)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, The University of Western Ontario, 
London, ON N6A 5C1, Canada.
(3)Division of BioMedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Memorial University of 
Newfoundland, St. John's, NL A1B 3V6, Canada.

When considering connexin expression and regulation, the epidermis of the skin 
is one of the most complex tissues found in mammals even though it largely 
contains a single cell type, the keratinocyte. In the rodent epidermis, up to 9 
connexin family members have been detected at the mRNA level. Many of these 
connexins are temporally and spatially regulated in coordination with 
keratinocyte progenitor cell differentiation and migration from the stratum 
basale to form the stratum spinosum and stratum granulosum layers before finally 
forming the stratum corneum. Cx43 is the principal connexin found in basal 
keratinocytes and to a lesser degree found in keratinocytes that have begun to 
differentiate where Cx26, Cx30 and Cx31 become prevalent. Here we show that the 
CRISPR-Cas9 ablation of Cx43 reduces overall gap junction coupling in monolayer 
cultures of rat epidermal keratinocytes (REKs) and dysregulates the 
differentiation of REKs when grown in organotypic cultures. Natively found in 
differentiated keratinocytes, Cx31 readily assembles into gap junctions when 
expressed in REKs where it can extensively co-assemble into the same gap 
junctions with co-expressed Cx30. Time-lapse imaging indicated that many Cx31 
gap junctions are mobile within the plasma membrane undergoing both fusion and 
fission events. Finally, the persistence of pre-existing Cx31 gap junctions in 
the presence of the protein trafficking blocker, brefeldin A, is longer than 
that found for Cx43 gap junctions indicating that it has a distinctly different 
life expectancy in REKs. Collectively, this study highlights the importance of 
Cx43 in rodent keratinocyte differentiation and suggests that Cx31 acquires 
life-cycle properties that are distinct from Cx43.

DOI: 10.3390/biom10101443
PMCID: PMC7602205
PMID: 33066499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare.


320. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Oct 14;21(20):7592. doi: 10.3390/ijms21207592.

Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1: The Potential Role of microRNAs in the 
Management of the Syndrome.

Donati S(1), Ciuffi S(1), Marini F(1), Palmini G(1), Miglietta F(1), Aurilia 
C(1), Brandi ML(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental and Clinical Biomedical Sciences "Mario Serio", 
University of Study of Florence, Viale Pieraccini 6, 50139 Florence, Italy.
(2)Unit of Bone and Mineral Diseases, University Hospital of Florence, Largo 
Palagi 1, 50139 Florence, Italy.
(3)Fondazione Italiana Ricerca sulle Malattie dell'Osso (FIRMO Onlus), 50141 
Florence, Italy.

Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) is a rare inherited tumor syndrome, 
characterized by the development of multiple neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) in a 
single patient. Major manifestations include primary hyperparathyroidism, 
gastro-entero-pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, and pituitary adenomas. In 
addition to these main NETs, various combinations of more than 20 endocrine and 
non-endocrine tumors have been described in MEN1 patients. Despite advances in 
diagnostic techniques and treatment options, which are generally similar to 
those of sporadic tumors, patients with MEN1 have a poor life expectancy, and 
the need for targeted therapies is strongly felt. MEN1 is caused by germline 
heterozygous inactivating mutations of the MEN1 gene, which encodes menin, a 
tumor suppressor protein. The lack of a direct genotype-phenotype correlation 
does not permit the determination of the exact clinical course of the syndrome. 
One of the possible causes of this lack of association could be ascribed to 
epigenetic factors, including microRNAs (miRNAs), single-stranded non-coding 
small RNAs that negatively regulate post-transcriptional gene expression. Some 
miRNAs, and their deregulation, have been associated with MEN1 tumorigenesis. 
Recently, an extracellular class of miRNAs has also been identified (c-miRNAs); 
variations in their levels showed association with various human diseases, 
including tumors. The aim of this review is to provide a general overview on the 
involvement of miRNAs in MEN1 tumor development, to be used as possible targets 
for novel molecular therapies. The potential role of c-miRNAs as future 
non-invasive diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers of MEN1 will be discussed as 
well.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21207592
PMCID: PMC7589704
PMID: 33066578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All the authors declare no conflict of interest.


321. J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis. 2020 Nov;29(11):105213. doi: 
10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2020.105213. Epub 2020 Aug 8.

Exploring the Economic Benefits of Modafinil for Post-Stroke Fatigue in 
Australia: A Cost-Effectiveness Evaluation.

Bajorek B(1), Gao L(2), Lillicrap T(3), Bivard A(4), Garcia-Esperon C(5), 
Parsons M(6), Spratt N(7), Holliday E(8), Levi C(9).

Author information:
(1)Academic Pharmacist - Graduate School of Health, University of Technology 
Sydney, Broadway, New South Wales 2007, Australia; Research Affiliate - Hunter 
Medical Research Institute, New South Wales, Australia. Electronic address: 
beata.bajorek@uts.edu.au.
(2)Senior Lecturer - Deakin Health Economics, Institute for Health 
Transformation, Deakin University, Geelong, Victoria 3127, Australia. Electronic 
address: lan.gao@deakin.edu.au.
(3)Academic Pharmacist - Graduate School of Health, University of Technology 
Sydney, Broadway, New South Wales 2007, Australia; Clinical Scientist - 
Neurology Department, John Hunter Hospital, New Lambton Heights, New South Wales 
2305, Australia. Electronic address: tom.lillicrap@newcastle.edu.au.
(4)Research Affiliate - Hunter Medical Research Institute, New South Wales, 
Australia; Principle Research Fellow - Melbourne School of Health Sciences - 
Faculty of Medicine, Dentistry and Health Sciences, Victoria, Australia. 
Electronic address: abivard@unimelb.edu.au.
(5)Research Affiliate - Hunter Medical Research Institute, New South Wales, 
Australia; Stroke Neurologist - Department of Neurology, John Hunter Hospital, 
New Lambton Heights, New South Wales 2305, Australia. Electronic address: 
Carlos.GarciaEsperon@health.nsw.gov.au.
(6)Research Affiliate - Hunter Medical Research Institute, New South Wales, 
Australia; Director of Neurology - Department of Neurology, Royal Melbourne 
Hospital, Parkville, Victoria 3052, Australia. Electronic address: 
Mark.Parsons@mh.org.au.
(7)Research Affiliate - Hunter Medical Research Institute, New South Wales, 
Australia; Stroke Neurologist - Department of Neurology, John Hunter Hospital, 
New Lambton Heights, New South Wales 2305, Australia; School of Biomedical 
Sciences, University of Newcastle, Australia. Electronic address: 
neil.spratt@health.nsw.gov.au.
(8)Research Affiliate - Hunter Medical Research Institute, New South Wales, 
Australia; School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Newcastle, 
Callaghan, New South Wales 2308, Australia. Electronic address: 
liz.holliday@newcastle.edu.au.
(9)Research Affiliate - Hunter Medical Research Institute, New South Wales, 
Australia; The Sydney Partnership for Health, Education, Research, and 
Enterprise (SPHERE), Liverpool, New South Wales 2170, Australia. Electronic 
address: christopher.levi@unsw.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: In stroke survivors, post-stroke fatigue predicts dependency in 
daily living and failure to return to work. Modafinil shows promise as a 
pharmacotherapy to reduce post-stroke fatigue and related sequelae, e.g., poorer 
functional and clinical outcomes.
AIMS: This study explored the cost-effectiveness of modafinil in treating 
post-stroke fatigue in the Australian context, by determining its incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) and by simulating the potential cost-savings on 
a national scale, through a re-analysis of MIDAS trial data.
METHODS: A post hoc cost-effectiveness analysis was undertaken. Part A: 
patient-level cost and health effect data (Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory 
(MFI) scores) were derived from the MIDAS trial and analysis undertaken from a 
health-system perspective. Part B: a secondary analysis simulated the societal 
impact of modafinil therapy in terms of national productivity costs.
RESULTS: Part A: Mean cost of modafinil treatment was AUD$3.60/day/patient for a 
minimally clinically important change (10 points) in total MFI fatigue score, 
i.e., AUD$0.36/day/unit change in fatigue score per patient. For the base case 
scenario, the ICER of using modafinil (versus placebo) was AUD$131.73 ($90.17 - 
248.15, for minimum and maximum costs, respectively). Part B: The potential 
productivity cost-savings to society were calculated as nearly AUD$467 million 
over 1 year, and up to $383,471,991,248 over 10 years, from the widespread use 
of modafinil treatment in the Australian population of working-age 
stroke-survivors, representing a significant societal benefit.
CONCLUSIONS: Modafinil is a highly cost-effective treatment for post-stroke 
fatigue, offering significant productivity gains and potential cost-savings to 
society from the widespread use of modafinil treatment in the Australian 
population of working-age stroke-survivors.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2020.105213
PMID: 33066879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
have no conflicts of interest to declare in relation to this study.


322. Sci Data. 2020 Oct 16;7(1):353. doi: 10.1038/s41597-020-00670-4.

Individual Brain Charting dataset extension, second release of high-resolution 
fMRI data for cognitive mapping.

Pinho AL(1), Amadon A(2), Gauthier B(3)(4), Clairis N(5), Knops A(6)(7), Genon 
S(8)(9), Dohmatob E(10)(11), Torre JJ(10), Ginisty C(12), Becuwe-Desmidt S(12), 
Roger S(12), Lecomte Y(12), Berland V(12), Laurier L(12), Joly-Testault V(12), 
Médiouni-Cloarec G(12), Doublé C(12), Martins B(12), Salmon E(8), Piazza M(6), 
Melcher D(6), Pessiglione M(5), van Wassenhove V(3), Eger E(3), Varoquaux G(10), 
Dehaene S(3)(13), Hertz-Pannier L(12)(14), Thirion B(10).

Author information:
(1)Université Paris-Saclay, Inria, CEA, Palaiseau, 91120, France. 
ana.pinho@inria.fr.
(2)Université Paris-Saclay, CEA, CNRS, BAOBAB, NeuroSpin, 91191, Gif-sur-Yvette, 
France.
(3)Cognitive Neuroimaging Unit, INSERM, CEA, Université Paris-Saclay, NeuroSpin 
center, 91191, Gif/Yvette, France.
(4)Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience, Brain Mind Institute, School of Life 
Sciences and Center for Neuroprosthetics, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology 
(EPFL), Campus Biotech, Geneva, Switzerland.
(5)Motivation, Brain and Behavior (MBB) team, Institut du Cerveau (ICM), Inserm 
UMRS 1127, CNS UMR 7225, Sorbonne Université, Paris, France.
(6)Center for Mind/Brain Sciences, University of Trento, I-38068, Rovereto, 
Italy.
(7)LaPsyDÉ, UMR CNRS 8240, Université de Paris, Paris, France.
(8)GIGA-CRC In vivo Imaging, University of Liège, Liège, Belgium.
(9)Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine, Brain & Behaviour (INM-7) Research 
Centre Jülich, Jülich, Germany.
(10)Université Paris-Saclay, Inria, CEA, Palaiseau, 91120, France.
(11)Criteo AI Lab, Paris, France.
(12)Université Paris-Saclay, CEA, UNIACT, NeuroSpin, 91191 Gif-sur-Yvette, 
France.
(13)Collège de France, Université Paris-Sciences-Lettres, Paris, France.
(14)UMR 1141, NeuroDiderot, Université de Paris, Paris, France.

Comment in
    Sci Data. 2018 Jun 12;5:180105.

We present an extension of the Individual Brain Charting dataset -a high 
spatial-resolution, multi-task, functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging dataset, 
intended to support the investigation on the functional principles governing 
cognition in the human brain. The concomitant data acquisition from the same 12 
participants, in the same environment, allows to obtain in the long run finer 
cognitive topographies, free from inter-subject and inter-site variability. This 
second release provides more data from psychological domains present in the 
first release, and also yields data featuring new ones. It includes tasks on 
e.g. mental time travel, reward, theory-of-mind, pain, numerosity, 
self-reference effect and speech recognition. In total, 13 tasks with 86 
contrasts were added to the dataset and 63 new components were included in the 
cognitive description of the ensuing contrasts. As the dataset becomes larger, 
the collection of the corresponding topographies becomes more comprehensive, 
leading to better brain-atlasing frameworks. This dataset is an open-access 
facility; raw data and derivatives are publicly available in neuroimaging 
repositories.

DOI: 10.1038/s41597-020-00670-4
PMCID: PMC7567863
PMID: 33067452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


323. Exp Mol Med. 2020 Oct;52(10):1663-1672. doi: 10.1038/s12276-020-00515-5.
Epub  2020 Oct 16.

DYRK2 controls a key regulatory network in chronic myeloid leukemia stem cells.

Park CS(1), Lacorazza HD(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Baylor College of Medicine, Texas 
Children's Hospital, Houston, TX, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Baylor College of Medicine, Texas 
Children's Hospital, Houston, TX, USA. hdl@bcm.edu.

Chronic myeloid leukemia is a hematological cancer driven by the oncoprotein 
BCR-ABL1, and lifelong treatment with tyrosine kinase inhibitors extends patient 
survival to nearly the life expectancy of the general population. Despite 
advances in the development of more potent tyrosine kinase inhibitors to induce 
a durable deep molecular response, more than half of patients relapse upon 
treatment discontinuation. This clinical finding supports the paradigm that 
leukemia stem cells feed the neoplasm, resist tyrosine kinase inhibition, and 
reactivate upon drug withdrawal depending on the fitness of the patient's immune 
surveillance. This concept lends support to the idea that treatment-free 
remission is not achieved solely with tyrosine kinase inhibitors and that new 
molecular targets independent of BCR-ABL1 signaling are needed in order to 
develop adjuvant therapy to more efficiently eradicate the leukemia stem cell 
population responsible for chemoresistance and relapse. Future efforts must 
focus on the identification of new targets to support the discovery of potent 
and safe small molecules able to specifically eradicate the leukemic stem cell 
population. In this review, we briefly discuss molecular maintenance in leukemia 
stem cells in chronic myeloid leukemia and provide a more in-depth discussion of 
the dual-specificity kinase DYRK2, which has been identified as a novel 
actionable checkpoint in a critical leukemic network. DYRK2 controls the 
activation of p53 and proteasomal degradation of c-MYC, leading to impaired 
survival and self-renewal of leukemia stem cells; thus, pharmacological 
activation of DYRK2 as an adjuvant to standard therapy has the potential to 
induce treatment-free remission.

DOI: 10.1038/s12276-020-00515-5
PMCID: PMC8080801
PMID: 33067577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


324. Health Econ. 2021 Jan;30(1):104-112. doi: 10.1002/hec.4179. Epub 2020 Oct
16.

Social tariffs and democratic choice-Do population-based health state values 
reflect the will of the people?

Schneider PP(1).

Author information:
(1)ScHARR, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.

In economic evaluations of health technologies, health outcomes are commonly 
measured in terms of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). QALYs are the product 
of time and health-related quality of life. Health-related quality of life, in 
turn, is determined by a social tariff, which is supposed to reflect the 
public's preference over health states. This study argues that, because of the 
tariff's role in the societal decision-making process, it should not be 
understood as merely an operational (statistical) definition of health, but as a 
major instrument of democratic participation. I outline what implications this 
might have for both the method used to aggregate individual preferences, and the 
set of individuals whose preferences should count. Alternative tariff 
specifications and decision rules are explored, and future research directions 
are proposed.

© 2020 The Authors. Health Economics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.4179
PMID: 33067930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Lancet. 2020 Oct 17;396(10258):1129. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(20)32131-0.

Global health: time for radical change?

The Lancet.

Comment on
    doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(20)32000-6.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(20)32131-0
PMCID: PMC7561297
PMID: 33069323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Lancet. 2020 Oct 17;396(10258):1160-1203. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30977-6.

Global age-sex-specific fertility, mortality, healthy life expectancy (HALE), 
and population estimates in 204 countries and territories, 1950-2019: a 
comprehensive demographic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

GBD 2019 Demographics Collaborators.

Collaborators: Wang H, Abbas KM, Abbasifard M, Abbasi-Kangevari M, Abbastabar H, 
Abd-Allah F, Abdelalim A, Abolhassani H, Abreu LG, Abrigo MRM, Abushouk AI, 
Adabi M, Adair T, Adebayo OM, Adedeji IA, Adekanmbi V, Adeoye AM, Adetokunboh 
OO, Advani SM, Afshin A, Aghaali M, Agrawal A, Ahmadi K, Ahmadieh H, Ahmed MB, 
Al-Aly Z, Alam K, Alam T, Alanezi FM, Alanzi TM, Alcalde-Rabanal JE, Ali M, 
Alicandro G, Alijanzadeh M, Alinia C, Alipour V, Alizade H, Aljunid SM, Allebeck 
P, Almadi MAH, Almasi-Hashiani A, Al-Mekhlafi HM, Altirkawi KA, Alumran AK, 
Alvis-Guzman N, Amini-Rarani M, Aminorroaya A, Amit AML, Ancuceanu R, Andrei CL, 
Androudi S, Angus C, Anjomshoa M, Ansari F, Ansari I, Ansari-Moghaddam A, 
Antonio CAT, Antony CM, Anvari D, Appiah SCY, Arabloo J, Arab-Zozani M, Aravkin 
AY, Aremu O, Ärnlöv J, Aryal KK, Asadi-Pooya AA, Asgari S, Asghari Jafarabadi M, 
Atteraya MS, Ausloos M, Avila-Burgos L, Avokpaho EFGA, Ayala Quintanilla BP, 
Ayano G, Ayanore MA, Azarian G, Babaee E, Badiye AD, Bagli E, Bahrami MA, 
Bakhtiari A, Balassyano S, Banach M, Banik PC, Barker-Collo SL, Bärnighausen TW, 
Barzegar A, Basu S, Baune BT, Bayati M, Bazmandegan G, Bedi N, Bell ML, Bennett 
DA, Bensenor IM, Berhe K, Berman AE, Bertolacci GJ, Bhageerathy R, Bhala N, 
Bhattacharyya K, Bhutta ZA, Bijani A, Biondi A, Bisanzio D, Bisignano C, Biswas 
RK, Bjørge T, Bohlouli S, Bohluli M, Bolla SRR, Borzì AM, Borzouei S, Brady OJ, 
Braithwaite D, Brauer M, Briko AN, Briko NI, Bumgarner BR, Burugina Nagaraja S, 
Butt ZA, Caetano Dos Santos FL, Cai T, Callender CS, Cámera LA, Campos-Nonato 
IR, Cárdenas R, Carreras G, Carrero JJ, Carvalho F, Castaldelli-Maia JM, 
Castelpietra G, Castro F, Catalá-López F, Cederroth CR, Cerin E, Chattu VK, Chin 
KL, Chu DT, Ciobanu LG, Cirillo M, Comfort H, Costa VM, Cowden RG, Cromwell EA, 
Croneberger AJ, Cunningham M, Dahlawi SMA, Damiani G, D'Amico E, Dandona L, 
Dandona R, Dargan PI, Darwesh AM, Daryani A, Das Gupta R, das Neves J, Davletov 
K, De Leo D, Denova-Gutiérrez E, Deribe K, Dervenis N, Desai R, Dhungana GP, 
Dias da Silva D, Diaz D, Dippenaar IN, Djalalinia S, Do HT, Dokova K, Doku DT, 
Dorostkar F, Doshi CP, Doshmangir L, Doyle KE, Dubljanin E, Duraes AR, 
Edvardsson D, Effiong A, El Sayed I, El Tantawi M, Elbarazi I, El-Jaafary SI, 
Emamian MH, Eskandarieh S, Esmaeilzadeh F, Estep K, Farahmand M, Faraj A, Fareed 
M, Faridnia R, Faro A, Farzadfar F, Fattahi N, Fazaeli AA, Fazlzadeh M, Feigin 
VL, Fereshtehnejad SM, Fernandes E, Ferreira ML, Filip I, Fischer F, Flohr C, 
Foigt NA, Folayan MO, Fomenkov AA, Freitas M, Fukumoto T, Fuller JE, Furtado JM, 
Gad MM, Gakidou E, Gallus S, Gebrehiwot AM, Gebremedhin KB, Gething PW, Ghamari 
F, Ghashghaee A, Gholamian A, Gilani SA, Gitimoghaddam M, Glushkova EV, 
Gnedovskaya EV, Gopalani SV, Goulart AC, Gugnani HC, Guo Y, Gupta R, Gupta SS, 
Haagsma JA, Haj-Mirzaian A, Haj-Mirzaian A, Halvaei I, Hamadeh RR, Hamagharib 
Abdullah K, Han C, Handiso DW, Hankey GJ, Haririan H, Haro JM, Hasaballah AI, 
Hassanipour S, Hassankhani H, Hay SI, Heibati B, Heidari-Soureshjani R, Henny K, 
Henry NJ, Herteliu C, Heydarpour F, Hole MK, Hoogar P, Hosgood HD, Hossain N, 
Hosseinzadeh M, Hostiuc M, Hostiuc S, Househ M, Hoy DG, Hu G, Huda TM, Ibitoye 
SE, Ikuta KS, Ilesanmi OS, Ilic IM, Ilic MD, Imani-Nasab MH, Islam M, Iso H, Iwu 
CJ, Jaafari J, Jacobsen KH, Jahagirdar D, Jahanmehr N, Jalali A, Jalilian F, 
James SL, Janjani H, Jenabi E, Jha RP, Jha V, Ji JS, Jonas JB, Joukar F, Jozwiak 
JJ, Jürisson M, Kabir Z, Kalani H, Kalankesh LR, Kamiab Z, Kanchan T, Kapoor N, 
Karch A, Karimi SE, Karimi SA, Kassebaum NJ, Katikireddi SV, Kawakami N, Kayode 
GA, Keiyoro PN, Keller C, Khader YS, Khalid N, Khan EA, Khan M, Khang YH, Khater 
AM, Khater MM, Khazaei S, Khazaie H, Khodayari MT, Khubchandani J, Kianipour N, 
Kim CI, Kim YE, Kim YJ, Kinfu Y, Kisa A, Kisa S, Kissimova-Skarbek K, Kivimäki 
M, Komaki H, Kopec JA, Kosen S, Koul PA, Koyanagi A, Kravchenko MA, Krishan K, 
Krohn KJ, Kuate Defo B, Kumar GA, Kumar M, Kumar P, Kumar V, Kusuma D, Kyu HH, 
La Vecchia C, Lacey B, Lal DK, Lalloo R, Lami FH, Lansky S, Larson SL, Larsson 
AO, Lasrado S, Lassi ZS, Lazarus JV, Lee PH, Lee SWH, Leever AT, LeGrand KE, 
Leonardi M, Li S, Lim LL, Lim SS, Linn S, Lodha R, Logroscino G, Lopez AD, 
Lopukhov PD, Lotufo PA, Lozano R, Lu A, Lunevicius R, Madadin M, Maddison ER, 
Magdy Abd El Razek H, Magdy Abd El Razek M, Mahasha PW, Mahdavi MM, Malekzadeh 
R, Mamun AA, Manafi N, Mansour-Ghanaei F, Mansouri B, Mansournia MA, Mapoma CC, 
Martini S, Martins-Melo FR, Masaka A, Mastrogiacomo CI, Mathur MR, May EA, 
McAlinden C, McGrath JJ, McKee M, Mehndiratta MM, Mehri F, Mehta KM, Meitei WB, 
Memiah PTN, Mendoza W, Menezes RG, Mengesha EW, Mensah GA, Meretoja A, Meretoja 
TJ, Mestrovic T, Michalek IM, Mihretie KM, Miller TR, Mills EJ, Milne GJ, 
Mirrakhimov EM, Mirzaei H, Mirzaei M, Mirzaei-Alavijeh M, Misganaw AT, Moazen B, 
Moghadaszadeh M, Mohamadi E, Mohammad DK, Mohammad Y, Mohammad Gholi Mezerji N, 
Mohammadbeigi A, Mohammadian-Hafshejani A, Mohammadpourhodki R, Mohammed H, 
Mohammed S, Mohebi F, Mohseni Bandpei MA, Mokari A, Mokdad AH, Momen NC, Monasta 
L, Mooney MD, Moradi G, Moradi M, Moradi-Joo M, Moradi-Lakeh M, Moradzadeh R, 
Moraga P, Moreno Velásquez I, Morgado-da-Costa J, Morrison SD, Mosser JF, Mouodi 
S, Mousavi SM, Mousavi Khaneghah A, Mueller UO, Musa KI, Muthupandian S, 
Nabavizadeh B, Naderi M, Nagarajan AJ, Naghavi M, Naghshtabrizi B, Naik G, 
Najafi F, Nangia V, Nansseu JR, Ndwandwe DE, Negoi I, Negoi RI, Ngunjiri JW, 
Nguyen HLT, Nguyen TH, Nigatu YT, Nikbakhsh R, Nikpoor AR, Nixon MR, Nnaji CA, 
Nomura S, Noubiap JJ, Nouraei Motlagh S, Nowak C, Oţoiu A, Odell CM, Oh IH, 
Oladnabi M, Olagunju AT, Olusanya BO, Olusanya JO, Omar Bali A, Ong KL, 
Onwujekwe OE, Ortiz A, Otstavnov N, Otstavnov SS, Øverland S, Owolabi MO, P A M, 
Padubidri JR, Pakshir K, Palladino R, Pana A, Panda-Jonas S, Park J, Pasupula 
DK, Patel JR, Patel SK, Patton GC, Paulson KR, Pazoki Toroudi H, Pease SA, Peden 
AE, Pepito VCF, Peprah EK, Pereira A, Pereira DM, Perico N, Pigott DM, Pilgrim 
T, Pilz TM, Piradov MA, Pirsaheb M, Pokhrel KN, Postma MJ, Pourjafar H, 
Pourmalek F, Pourshams A, Poznańska A, Prada SI, Prakash S, Preotescu L, Quazi 
Syed Z, Rabiee M, Rabiee N, Radfar A, Rafiei A, Raggi A, Rahman MA, 
Rajabpour-Sanati A, Ram P, Ranabhat CL, Rao SJ, Rasella D, Rashedi V, Rastogi P, 
Rathi P, Rawal L, Remuzzi G, Renjith V, Renzaho AMN, Resnikoff S, Rezaei N, 
Rezai MS, Rezapour A, Rickard J, Roever L, Ronfani L, Roshandel G, Rostamian M, 
Rubagotti E, Rwegerera GM, Sabour S, Saddik B, Sadeghi E, Sadeghi M, Saeedi 
Moghaddam S, Safari Y, Safi S, Safiri S, Sagar R, Sahebkar A, Sahraian MA, 
Sajadi SM, Salahshoor MR, Salama JS, Salamati P, Salem MRR, Salimi Y, Salomon 
JA, Salz I, Samad Z, Samy AM, Sanabria J, Santric-Milicevic MM, Saraswathy SYI, 
Sartorius B, Sarveazad A, Sathian B, Sathish T, Sattin D, Saylan M, Schaeffer 
LE, Schiavolin S, Schwebel DC, Schwendicke F, Sekerija M, Senbeta AM, 
Senthilkumaran S, Sepanlou SG, Serván-Mori E, Shabani M, Shahabi S, Shahbaz M, 
Shaheen AA, Shaikh MA, Shalash AS, Shams-Beyranvand M, Shamsi M, Shamsizadeh M, 
Shannawaz M, Sharafi K, Sharafi Z, Sharara F, Sharma R, Shaw DH, Sheikh A, Shin 
JI, Shiri R, Shrime MG, Shuval K, Siabani S, Sigfusdottir ID, Sigurvinsdottir R, 
Silva DAS, Simonetti B, Simpson KE, Singh JA, Skiadaresi E, Skryabin VY, Soheili 
A, Sokhan A, Sorensen RJD, Soriano JB, Sorrie MB, Soyiri IN, Spurlock EE, 
Sreeramareddy CT, Stockfelt L, Stokes MA, Stubbs JL, Sudaryanto A, Sufiyan MB, 
Suliankatchi Abdulkader R, Sykes BL, Tabarés-Seisdedos R, Tabb KM, Tadakamadla 
SK, Taherkhani A, Tang M, Taveira N, Taylor HJ, Teagle WL, Tehrani-Banihashemi 
A, Teklehaimanot BF, Tessema ZT, Thankappan KR, Thomas N, Thrift AG, Titova MV, 
Tohidinik HR, Tonelli M, Topor-Madry R, Topouzis F, Tovani-Palone MRR, Traini E, 
Tran BX, Travillian R, Trias-Llimós S, Truelsen TC, Tudor Car L, Unnikrishnan B, 
Upadhyay E, Vacante M, Vakilian A, Valdez PR, Valli A, Vardavas C, Vasankari TJ, 
Vasconcelos AMN, Vasseghian Y, Veisani Y, Venketasubramanian N, Vidale S, 
Violante FS, Vlassov V, Vollset SE, Vos T, Vujcic IS, Vukovic A, Vukovic R, 
Waheed Y, Wallin MT, Walters MK, Wang H, Wang YP, Watson S, Wei J, Weiss J, 
Weldesamuel GT, Werdecker A, Westerman R, Whiteford HA, Wiangkham T, Wiens KE, 
Wijeratne T, Wiysonge CS, Wojtyniak B, Wolfe CDA, Wondmieneh AB, Wool EE, Wu AM, 
Wu J, Xu G, Yamada T, Yamagishi K, Yano Y, Yaya S, Yazdi-Feyzabadi V, Yearwood 
JA, Yeheyis TY, Yilgwan CS, Yip P, Yonemoto N, Yoon SJ, Yoosefi Lebni J, York 
HW, Younis MZ, Younker TP, Yousefi Z, Yousefinezhadi T, Yousuf AY, Yusefzadeh H, 
Zahirian Moghadam T, Zakzuk J, Zaman SB, Zamani M, Zamanian M, Zandian H, Zhang 
ZJ, Zheng P, Zhou M, Ziapour A, Murray CJL.

BACKGROUND: Accurate and up-to-date assessment of demographic metrics is crucial 
for understanding a wide range of social, economic, and public health issues 
that affect populations worldwide. The Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and 
Risk Factors Study (GBD) 2019 produced updated and comprehensive demographic 
assessments of the key indicators of fertility, mortality, migration, and 
population for 204 countries and territories and selected subnational locations 
from 1950 to 2019.
METHODS: 8078 country-years of vital registration and sample registration data, 
938 surveys, 349 censuses, and 238 other sources were identified and used to 
estimate age-specific fertility. Spatiotemporal Gaussian process regression 
(ST-GPR) was used to generate age-specific fertility rates for 5-year age groups 
between ages 15 and 49 years. With extensions to age groups 10-14 and 50-54 
years, the total fertility rate (TFR) was then aggregated using the estimated 
age-specific fertility between ages 10 and 54 years. 7417 sources were used for 
under-5 mortality estimation and 7355 for adult mortality. ST-GPR was used to 
synthesise data sources after correction for known biases. Adult mortality was 
measured as the probability of death between ages 15 and 60 years based on vital 
registration, sample registration, and sibling histories, and was also estimated 
using ST-GPR. HIV-free life tables were then estimated using estimates of 
under-5 and adult mortality rates using a relational model life table system 
created for GBD, which closely tracks observed age-specific mortality rates from 
complete vital registration when available. Independent estimates of 
HIV-specific mortality generated by an epidemiological analysis of HIV 
prevalence surveys and antenatal clinic serosurveillance and other sources were 
incorporated into the estimates in countries with large epidemics. Annual and 
single-year age estimates of net migration and population for each country and 
territory were generated using a Bayesian hierarchical cohort component model 
that analysed estimated age-specific fertility and mortality rates along with 
1250 censuses and 747 population registry years. We classified location-years 
into seven categories on the basis of the natural rate of increase in population 
(calculated by subtracting the crude death rate from the crude birth rate) and 
the net migration rate. We computed healthy life expectancy (HALE) using years 
lived with disability (YLDs) per capita, life tables, and standard demographic 
methods. Uncertainty was propagated throughout the demographic estimation 
process, including fertility, mortality, and population, with 1000 draw-level 
estimates produced for each metric.
FINDINGS: The global TFR decreased from 2·72 (95% uncertainty interval [UI] 
2·66-2·79) in 2000 to 2·31 (2·17-2·46) in 2019. Global annual livebirths 
increased from 134·5 million (131·5-137·8) in 2000 to a peak of 139·6 million 
(133·0-146·9) in 2016. Global livebirths then declined to 135·3 million 
(127·2-144·1) in 2019. Of the 204 countries and territories included in this 
study, in 2019, 102 had a TFR lower than 2·1, which is considered a good 
approximation of replacement-level fertility. All countries in sub-Saharan 
Africa had TFRs above replacement level in 2019 and accounted for 27·1% (95% UI 
26·4-27·8) of global livebirths. Global life expectancy at birth increased from 
67·2 years (95% UI 66·8-67·6) in 2000 to 73·5 years (72·8-74·3) in 2019. The 
total number of deaths increased from 50·7 million (49·5-51·9) in 2000 to 56·5 
million (53·7-59·2) in 2019. Under-5 deaths declined from 9·6 million (9·1-10·3) 
in 2000 to 5·0 million (4·3-6·0) in 2019. Global population increased by 25·7%, 
from 6·2 billion (6·0-6·3) in 2000 to 7·7 billion (7·5-8·0) in 2019. In 2019, 34 
countries had negative natural rates of increase; in 17 of these, the population 
declined because immigration was not sufficient to counteract the negative rate 
of decline. Globally, HALE increased from 58·6 years (56·1-60·8) in 2000 to 63·5 
years (60·8-66·1) in 2019. HALE increased in 202 of 204 countries and 
territories between 2000 and 2019.
INTERPRETATION: Over the past 20 years, fertility rates have been dropping 
steadily and life expectancy has been increasing, with few exceptions. Much of 
this change follows historical patterns linking social and economic 
determinants, such as those captured by the GBD Socio-demographic Index, with 
demographic outcomes. More recently, several countries have experienced a 
combination of low fertility and stagnating improvement in mortality rates, 
pushing more populations into the late stages of the demographic transition. 
Tracking demographic change and the emergence of new patterns will be essential 
for global health monitoring.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30977-6
PMCID: PMC7566045
PMID: 33069325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Lancet. 2020 Oct 17;396(10258):1204-1222. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30925-9.

Global burden of 369 diseases and injuries in 204 countries and territories, 
1990-2019: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

GBD 2019 Diseases and Injuries Collaborators.

Collaborators: Vos T, Lim SS, Abbafati C, Abbas KM, Abbasi M, Abbasifard M, 
Abbasi-Kangevari M, Abbastabar H, Abd-Allah F, Abdelalim A, Abdollahi M, 
Abdollahpour I, Abolhassani H, Aboyans V, Abrams EM, Abreu LG, Abrigo MRM, 
Abu-Raddad LJ, Abushouk AI, Acebedo A, Ackerman IN, Adabi M, Adamu AA, Adebayo 
OM, Adekanmbi V, Adelson JD, Adetokunboh OO, Adham D, Afshari M, Afshin A, 
Agardh EE, Agarwal G, Agesa KM, Aghaali M, Aghamir SMK, Agrawal A, Ahmad T, 
Ahmadi A, Ahmadi M, Ahmadieh H, Ahmadpour E, Akalu TY, Akinyemi RO, Akinyemiju 
T, Akombi B, Al-Aly Z, Alam K, Alam N, Alam S, Alam T, Alanzi TM, Albertson SB, 
Alcalde-Rabanal JE, Alema NM, Ali M, Ali S, Alicandro G, Alijanzadeh M, Alinia 
C, Alipour V, Aljunid SM, Alla F, Allebeck P, Almasi-Hashiani A, Alonso J, 
Al-Raddadi RM, Altirkawi KA, Alvis-Guzman N, Alvis-Zakzuk NJ, Amini S, 
Amini-Rarani M, Aminorroaya A, Amiri F, Amit AML, Amugsi DA, Amul GGH, Anderlini 
D, Andrei CL, Andrei T, Anjomshoa M, Ansari F, Ansari I, Ansari-Moghaddam A, 
Antonio CAT, Antony CM, Antriyandarti E, Anvari D, Anwer R, Arabloo J, 
Arab-Zozani M, Aravkin AY, Ariani F, Ärnlöv J, Aryal KK, Arzani A, 
Asadi-Aliabadi M, Asadi-Pooya AA, Asghari B, Ashbaugh C, Atnafu DD, Atre SR, 
Ausloos F, Ausloos M, Ayala Quintanilla BP, Ayano G, Ayanore MA, Aynalem YA, 
Azari S, Azarian G, Azene ZN, Babaee E, Badawi A, Bagherzadeh M, Bakhshaei MH, 
Bakhtiari A, Balakrishnan S, Balalla S, Balassyano S, Banach M, Banik PC, 
Bannick MS, Bante AB, Baraki AG, Barboza MA, Barker-Collo SL, Barthelemy CM, 
Barua L, Barzegar A, Basu S, Baune BT, Bayati M, Bazmandegan G, Bedi N, Beghi E, 
Béjot Y, Bello AK, Bender RG, Bennett DA, Bennitt FB, Bensenor IM, Benziger CP, 
Berhe K, Bernabe E, Bertolacci GJ, Bhageerathy R, Bhala N, Bhandari D, Bhardwaj 
P, Bhattacharyya K, Bhutta ZA, Bibi S, Biehl MH, Bikbov B, Bin Sayeed MS, Biondi 
A, Birihane BM, Bisanzio D, Bisignano C, Biswas RK, Bohlouli S, Bohluli M, Bolla 
SRR, Boloor A, Boon-Dooley AS, Borges G, Borzì AM, Bourne R, Brady OJ, Brauer M, 
Brayne C, Breitborde NJK, Brenner H, Briant PS, Briggs AM, Briko NI, Britton GB, 
Bryazka D, Buchbinder R, Bumgarner BR, Busse R, Butt ZA, Caetano Dos Santos FL, 
Cámera LA, Campos-Nonato IR, Car J, Cárdenas R, Carreras G, Carrero JJ, Carvalho 
F, Castaldelli-Maia JM, Castañeda-Orjuela CA, Castelpietra G, Castle CD, Castro 
F, Catalá-López F, Causey K, Cederroth CR, Cercy KM, Cerin E, Chandan JS, Chang 
AR, Charlson FJ, Chattu VK, Chaturvedi S, Chimed-Ochir O, Chin KL, Cho DY, 
Christensen H, Chu DT, Chung MT, Cicuttini FM, Ciobanu LG, Cirillo M, Collins 
EL, Compton K, Conti S, Cortesi PA, Costa VM, Cousin E, Cowden RG, Cowie BC, 
Cromwell EA, Cross DH, Crowe CS, Cruz JA, Cunningham M, Dahlawi SMA, Damiani G, 
Dandona L, Dandona R, Darwesh AM, Daryani A, Das JK, Das Gupta R, das Neves J, 
Dávila-Cervantes CA, Davletov K, De Leo D, Dean FE, DeCleene NK, Deen A, 
Degenhardt L, Dellavalle RP, Demeke FM, Demsie DG, Denova-Gutiérrez E, Dereje 
ND, Dervenis N, Desai R, Desalew A, Dessie GA, Dharmaratne SD, Dhungana GP, 
Dianatinasab M, Diaz D, Dibaji Forooshani ZS, Dingels ZV, Dirac MA, Djalalinia 
S, Do HT, Dokova K, Dorostkar F, Doshi CP, Doshmangir L, Douiri A, Doxey MC, 
Driscoll TR, Dunachie SJ, Duncan BB, Duraes AR, Eagan AW, Ebrahimi Kalan M, 
Edvardsson D, Ehrlich JR, El Nahas N, El Sayed I, El Tantawi M, Elbarazi I, 
Elgendy IY, Elhabashy HR, El-Jaafary SI, Elyazar IR, Emamian MH, Emmons-Bell S, 
Erskine HE, Eshrati B, Eskandarieh S, Esmaeilnejad S, Esmaeilzadeh F, 
Esteghamati A, Estep K, Etemadi A, Etisso AE, Farahmand M, Faraj A, Fareed M, 
Faridnia R, Farinha CSES, Farioli A, Faro A, Faruque M, Farzadfar F, Fattahi N, 
Fazlzadeh M, Feigin VL, Feldman R, Fereshtehnejad SM, Fernandes E, Ferrari AJ, 
Ferreira ML, Filip I, Fischer F, Fisher JL, Fitzgerald R, Flohr C, Flor LS, 
Foigt NA, Folayan MO, Force LM, Fornari C, Foroutan M, Fox JT, Freitas M, Fu W, 
Fukumoto T, Furtado JM, Gad MM, Gakidou E, Galles NC, Gallus S, Gamkrelidze A, 
Garcia-Basteiro AL, Gardner WM, Geberemariyam BS, Gebrehiwot AM, Gebremedhin KB, 
Gebreslassie AAAA, Gershberg Hayoon A, Gething PW, Ghadimi M, Ghadiri K, 
Ghafourifard M, Ghajar A, Ghamari F, Ghashghaee A, Ghiasvand H, Ghith N, 
Gholamian A, Gilani SA, Gill PS, Gitimoghaddam M, Giussani G, Goli S, Gomez RS, 
Gopalani SV, Gorini G, Gorman TM, Gottlich HC, Goudarzi H, Goulart AC, Goulart 
BNG, Grada A, Grivna M, Grosso G, Gubari MIM, Gugnani HC, Guimaraes ALS, 
Guimarães RA, Guled RA, Guo G, Guo Y, Gupta R, Haagsma JA, Haddock B, 
Hafezi-Nejad N, Hafiz A, Hagins H, Haile LM, Hall BJ, Halvaei I, Hamadeh RR, 
Hamagharib Abdullah K, Hamilton EB, Han C, Han H, Hankey GJ, Haro JM, Harvey JD, 
Hasaballah AI, Hasanzadeh A, Hashemian M, Hassanipour S, Hassankhani H, 
Havmoeller RJ, Hay RJ, Hay SI, Hayat K, Heidari B, Heidari G, 
Heidari-Soureshjani R, Hendrie D, Henrikson HJ, Henry NJ, Herteliu C, Heydarpour 
F, Hird TR, Hoek HW, Hole MK, Holla R, Hoogar P, Hosgood HD, Hosseinzadeh M, 
Hostiuc M, Hostiuc S, Househ M, Hoy DG, Hsairi M, Hsieh VC, Hu G, Huda TM, Hugo 
FN, Huynh CK, Hwang BF, Iannucci VC, Ibitoye SE, Ikuta KS, Ilesanmi OS, Ilic IM, 
Ilic MD, Inbaraj LR, Ippolito H, Irvani SSN, Islam MM, Islam M, Islam SMS, 
Islami F, Iso H, Ivers RQ, Iwu CCD, Iyamu IO, Jaafari J, Jacobsen KH, 
Jadidi-Niaragh F, Jafari H, Jafarinia M, Jahagirdar D, Jahani MA, Jahanmehr N, 
Jakovljevic M, Jalali A, Jalilian F, James SL, Janjani H, Janodia MD, 
Jayatilleke AU, Jeemon P, Jenabi E, Jha RP, Jha V, Ji JS, Jia P, John O, 
John-Akinola YO, Johnson CO, Johnson SC, Jonas JB, Joo T, Joshi A, Jozwiak JJ, 
Jürisson M, Kabir A, Kabir Z, Kalani H, Kalani R, Kalankesh LR, Kalhor R, Kamiab 
Z, Kanchan T, Karami Matin B, Karch A, Karim MA, Karimi SE, Kassa GM, Kassebaum 
NJ, Katikireddi SV, Kawakami N, Kayode GA, Keddie SH, Keller C, Kereselidze M, 
Khafaie MA, Khalid N, Khan M, Khatab K, Khater MM, Khatib MN, Khayamzadeh M, 
Khodayari MT, Khundkar R, Kianipour N, Kieling C, Kim D, Kim YE, Kim YJ, 
Kimokoti RW, Kisa A, Kisa S, Kissimova-Skarbek K, Kivimäki M, Kneib CJ, Knudsen 
AKS, Kocarnik JM, Kolola T, Kopec JA, Kosen S, Koul PA, Koyanagi A, Kravchenko 
MA, Krishan K, Krohn KJ, Kuate Defo B, Kucuk Bicer B, Kumar GA, Kumar M, Kumar 
P, Kumar V, Kumaresh G, Kurmi OP, Kusuma D, Kyu HH, La Vecchia C, Lacey B, Lal 
DK, Lalloo R, Lam JO, Lami FH, Landires I, Lang JJ, Lansingh VC, Larson SL, 
Larsson AO, Lasrado S, Lassi ZS, Lau KM, Lavados PM, Lazarus JV, Ledesma JR, Lee 
PH, Lee SWH, LeGrand KE, Leigh J, Leonardi M, Lescinsky H, Leung J, Levi M, 
Lewington S, Li S, Lim LL, Lin C, Lin RT, Linehan C, Linn S, Liu HC, Liu S, Liu 
Z, Looker KJ, Lopez AD, Lopukhov PD, Lorkowski S, Lotufo PA, Lucas TCD, Lugo A, 
Lunevicius R, Lyons RA, Ma J, MacLachlan JH, Maddison ER, Maddison R, Madotto F, 
Mahasha PW, Mai HT, Majeed A, Maled V, Maleki S, Malekzadeh R, Malta DC, Mamun 
AA, Manafi A, Manafi N, Manguerra H, Mansouri B, Mansournia MA, Mantilla Herrera 
AM, Maravilla JC, Marks A, Martins-Melo FR, Martopullo I, Masoumi SZ, Massano J, 
Massenburg BB, Mathur MR, Maulik PK, McAlinden C, McGrath JJ, McKee M, 
Mehndiratta MM, Mehri F, Mehta KM, Meitei WB, Memiah PTN, Mendoza W, Menezes RG, 
Mengesha EW, Mengesha MB, Mereke A, Meretoja A, Meretoja TJ, Mestrovic T, 
Miazgowski B, Miazgowski T, Michalek IM, Mihretie KM, Miller TR, Mills EJ, 
Mirica A, Mirrakhimov EM, Mirzaei H, Mirzaei M, Mirzaei-Alavijeh M, Misganaw AT, 
Mithra P, Moazen B, Moghadaszadeh M, Mohamadi E, Mohammad DK, Mohammad Y, 
Mohammad Gholi Mezerji N, Mohammadian-Hafshejani A, Mohammadifard N, 
Mohammadpourhodki R, Mohammed S, Mokdad AH, Molokhia M, Momen NC, Monasta L, 
Mondello S, Mooney MD, Moosazadeh M, Moradi G, Moradi M, Moradi-Lakeh M, 
Moradzadeh R, Moraga P, Morales L, Morawska L, Moreno Velásquez I, 
Morgado-da-Costa J, Morrison SD, Mosser JF, Mouodi S, Mousavi SM, Mousavi 
Khaneghah A, Mueller UO, Munro SB, Muriithi MK, Musa KI, Muthupandian S, Naderi 
M, Nagarajan AJ, Nagel G, Naghshtabrizi B, Nair S, Nandi AK, Nangia V, Nansseu 
JR, Nayak VC, Nazari J, Negoi I, Negoi RI, Netsere HBN, Ngunjiri JW, Nguyen CT, 
Nguyen J, Nguyen M, Nguyen M, Nichols E, Nigatu D, Nigatu YT, Nikbakhsh R, Nixon 
MR, Nnaji CA, Nomura S, Norrving B, Noubiap JJ, Nowak C, Nunez-Samudio V, Oţoiu 
A, Oancea B, Odell CM, Ogbo FA, Oh IH, Okunga EW, Oladnabi M, Olagunju AT, 
Olusanya BO, Olusanya JO, Oluwasanu MM, Omar Bali A, Omer MO, Ong KL, Onwujekwe 
OE, Orji AU, Orpana HM, Ortiz A, Ostroff SM, Otstavnov N, Otstavnov SS, Øverland 
S, Owolabi MO, P A M, Padubidri JR, Pakhare AP, Palladino R, Pana A, Panda-Jonas 
S, Pandey A, Park EK, Parmar PGK, Pasupula DK, Patel SK, Paternina-Caicedo AJ, 
Pathak A, Pathak M, Patten SB, Patton GC, Paudel D, Pazoki Toroudi H, Peden AE, 
Pennini A, Pepito VCF, Peprah EK, Pereira A, Pereira DM, Perico N, Pham HQ, 
Phillips MR, Pigott DM, Pilgrim T, Pilz TM, Pirsaheb M, Plana-Ripoll O, Plass D, 
Pokhrel KN, Polibin RV, Polinder S, Polkinghorne KR, Postma MJ, Pourjafar H, 
Pourmalek F, Pourmirza Kalhori R, Pourshams A, Poznańska A, Prada SI, Prakash V, 
Pribadi DRA, Pupillo E, Quazi Syed Z, Rabiee M, Rabiee N, Radfar A, Rafiee A, 
Rafiei A, Raggi A, Rahimi-Movaghar A, Rahman MA, Rajabpour-Sanati A, Rajati F, 
Ramezanzadeh K, Ranabhat CL, Rao PC, Rao SJ, Rasella D, Rastogi P, Rathi P, 
Rawaf DL, Rawaf S, Rawal L, Razo C, Redford SB, Reiner RC Jr, Reinig N, Reitsma 
MB, Remuzzi G, Renjith V, Renzaho AMN, Resnikoff S, Rezaei N, Rezai MS, Rezapour 
A, Rhinehart PA, Riahi SM, Ribeiro ALP, Ribeiro DC, Ribeiro D, Rickard J, 
Roberts NLS, Roberts S, Robinson SR, Roever L, Rolfe S, Ronfani L, Roshandel G, 
Roth GA, Rubagotti E, Rumisha SF, Sabour S, Sachdev PS, Saddik B, Sadeghi E, 
Sadeghi M, Saeidi S, Safi S, Safiri S, Sagar R, Sahebkar A, Sahraian MA, Sajadi 
SM, Salahshoor MR, Salamati P, Salehi Zahabi S, Salem H, Salem MRR, Salimzadeh 
H, Salomon JA, Salz I, Samad Z, Samy AM, Sanabria J, Santomauro DF, Santos IS, 
Santos JV, Santric-Milicevic MM, Saraswathy SYI, Sarmiento-Suárez R, 
Sarrafzadegan N, Sartorius B, Sarveazad A, Sathian B, Sathish T, Sattin D, 
Sbarra AN, Schaeffer LE, Schiavolin S, Schmidt MI, Schutte AE, Schwebel DC, 
Schwendicke F, Senbeta AM, Senthilkumaran S, Sepanlou SG, Shackelford KA, Shadid 
J, Shahabi S, Shaheen AA, Shaikh MA, Shalash AS, Shams-Beyranvand M, Shamsizadeh 
M, Shannawaz M, Sharafi K, Sharara F, Sheena BS, Sheikhtaheri A, Shetty RS, 
Shibuya K, Shiferaw WS, Shigematsu M, Shin JI, Shiri R, Shirkoohi R, Shrime MG, 
Shuval K, Siabani S, Sigfusdottir ID, Sigurvinsdottir R, Silva JP, Simpson KE, 
Singh A, Singh JA, Skiadaresi E, Skou ST, Skryabin VY, Sobngwi E, Sokhan A, 
Soltani S, Sorensen RJD, Soriano JB, Sorrie MB, Soyiri IN, Sreeramareddy CT, 
Stanaway JD, Stark BA, Ştefan SC, Stein C, Steiner C, Steiner TJ, Stokes MA, 
Stovner LJ, Stubbs JL, Sudaryanto A, Sufiyan MB, Sulo G, Sultan I, Sykes BL, 
Sylte DO, Szócska M, Tabarés-Seisdedos R, Tabb KM, Tadakamadla SK, Taherkhani A, 
Tajdini M, Takahashi K, Taveira N, Teagle WL, Teame H, Tehrani-Banihashemi A, 
Teklehaimanot BF, Terrason S, Tessema ZT, Thankappan KR, Thomson AM, Tohidinik 
HR, Tonelli M, Topor-Madry R, Torre AE, Touvier M, Tovani-Palone MRR, Tran BX, 
Travillian R, Troeger CE, Truelsen TC, Tsai AC, Tsatsakis A, Tudor Car L, 
Tyrovolas S, Uddin R, Ullah S, Undurraga EA, Unnikrishnan B, Vacante M, Vakilian 
A, Valdez PR, Varughese S, Vasankari TJ, Vasseghian Y, Venketasubramanian N, 
Violante FS, Vlassov V, Vollset SE, Vongpradith A, Vukovic A, Vukovic R, Waheed 
Y, Walters MK, Wang J, Wang Y, Wang YP, Ward JL, Watson A, Wei J, Weintraub RG, 
Weiss DJ, Weiss J, Westerman R, Whisnant JL, Whiteford HA, Wiangkham T, Wiens 
KE, Wijeratne T, Wilner LB, Wilson S, Wojtyniak B, Wolfe CDA, Wool EE, Wu AM, 
Wulf Hanson S, Wunrow HY, Xu G, Xu R, Yadgir S, Yahyazadeh Jabbari SH, Yamagishi 
K, Yaminfirooz M, Yano Y, Yaya S, Yazdi-Feyzabadi V, Yearwood JA, Yeheyis TY, 
Yeshitila YG, Yip P, Yonemoto N, Yoon SJ, Yoosefi Lebni J, Younis MZ, Younker 
TP, Yousefi Z, Yousefifard M, Yousefinezhadi T, Yousuf AY, Yu C, Yusefzadeh H, 
Zahirian Moghadam T, Zaki L, Zaman SB, Zamani M, Zamanian M, Zandian H, Zangeneh 
A, Zastrozhin MS, Zewdie KA, Zhang Y, Zhang ZJ, Zhao JT, Zhao Y, Zheng P, Zhou 
M, Ziapour A, Zimsen SRM, Naghavi M, Murray CJL.

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2020 Nov 14;396(10262):1562.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2022 May 7;399(10337):1777-1778.

BACKGROUND: In an era of shifting global agendas and expanded emphasis on 
non-communicable diseases and injuries along with communicable diseases, sound 
evidence on trends by cause at the national level is essential. The Global 
Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD) provides a systematic 
scientific assessment of published, publicly available, and contributed data on 
incidence, prevalence, and mortality for a mutually exclusive and collectively 
exhaustive list of diseases and injuries.
METHODS: GBD estimates incidence, prevalence, mortality, years of life lost 
(YLLs), years lived with disability (YLDs), and disability-adjusted life-years 
(DALYs) due to 369 diseases and injuries, for two sexes, and for 204 countries 
and territories. Input data were extracted from censuses, household surveys, 
civil registration and vital statistics, disease registries, health service use, 
air pollution monitors, satellite imaging, disease notifications, and other 
sources. Cause-specific death rates and cause fractions were calculated using 
the Cause of Death Ensemble model and spatiotemporal Gaussian process 
regression. Cause-specific deaths were adjusted to match the total all-cause 
deaths calculated as part of the GBD population, fertility, and mortality 
estimates. Deaths were multiplied by standard life expectancy at each age to 
calculate YLLs. A Bayesian meta-regression modelling tool, DisMod-MR 2.1, was 
used to ensure consistency between incidence, prevalence, remission, excess 
mortality, and cause-specific mortality for most causes. Prevalence estimates 
were multiplied by disability weights for mutually exclusive sequelae of 
diseases and injuries to calculate YLDs. We considered results in the context of 
the Socio-demographic Index (SDI), a composite indicator of income per capita, 
years of schooling, and fertility rate in females younger than 25 years. 
Uncertainty intervals (UIs) were generated for every metric using the 25th and 
975th ordered 1000 draw values of the posterior distribution.
FINDINGS: Global health has steadily improved over the past 30 years as measured 
by age-standardised DALY rates. After taking into account population growth and 
ageing, the absolute number of DALYs has remained stable. Since 2010, the pace 
of decline in global age-standardised DALY rates has accelerated in age groups 
younger than 50 years compared with the 1990-2010 time period, with the greatest 
annualised rate of decline occurring in the 0-9-year age group. Six infectious 
diseases were among the top ten causes of DALYs in children younger than 10 
years in 2019: lower respiratory infections (ranked second), diarrhoeal diseases 
(third), malaria (fifth), meningitis (sixth), whooping cough (ninth), and 
sexually transmitted infections (which, in this age group, is fully accounted 
for by congenital syphilis; ranked tenth). In adolescents aged 10-24 years, 
three injury causes were among the top causes of DALYs: road injuries (ranked 
first), self-harm (third), and interpersonal violence (fifth). Five of the 
causes that were in the top ten for ages 10-24 years were also in the top ten in 
the 25-49-year age group: road injuries (ranked first), HIV/AIDS (second), low 
back pain (fourth), headache disorders (fifth), and depressive disorders 
(sixth). In 2019, ischaemic heart disease and stroke were the top-ranked causes 
of DALYs in both the 50-74-year and 75-years-and-older age groups. Since 1990, 
there has been a marked shift towards a greater proportion of burden due to YLDs 
from non-communicable diseases and injuries. In 2019, there were 11 countries 
where non-communicable disease and injury YLDs constituted more than half of all 
disease burden. Decreases in age-standardised DALY rates have accelerated over 
the past decade in countries at the lower end of the SDI range, while 
improvements have started to stagnate or even reverse in countries with higher 
SDI.
INTERPRETATION: As disability becomes an increasingly large component of disease 
burden and a larger component of health expenditure, greater research and 
development investment is needed to identify new, more effective intervention 
strategies. With a rapidly ageing global population, the demands on health 
services to deal with disabling outcomes, which increase with age, will require 
policy makers to anticipate these changes. The mix of universal and more 
geographically specific influences on health reinforces the need for regular 
reporting on population health in detail and by underlying cause to help 
decision makers to identify success stories of disease control to emulate, as 
well as opportunities to improve.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30925-9
PMCID: PMC7567026
PMID: 33069326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Lancet. 2020 Oct 17;396(10258):1223-1249. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30752-2.

Global burden of 87 risk factors in 204 countries and territories, 1990-2019: a 
systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

GBD 2019 Risk Factors Collaborators.

Collaborators: Murray CJL, Aravkin AY, Zheng P, Abbafati C, Abbas KM, 
Abbasi-Kangevari M, Abd-Allah F, Abdelalim A, Abdollahi M, Abdollahpour I, 
Abegaz KH, Abolhassani H, Aboyans V, Abreu LG, Abrigo MRM, Abualhasan A, 
Abu-Raddad LJ, Abushouk AI, Adabi M, Adekanmbi V, Adeoye AM, Adetokunboh OO, 
Adham D, Advani SM, Agarwal G, Aghamir SMK, Agrawal A, Ahmad T, Ahmadi K, Ahmadi 
M, Ahmadieh H, Ahmed MB, Akalu TY, Akinyemi RO, Akinyemiju T, Akombi B, Akunna 
CJ, Alahdab F, Al-Aly Z, Alam K, Alam S, Alam T, Alanezi FM, Alanzi TM, Alemu 
BW, Alhabib KF, Ali M, Ali S, Alicandro G, Alinia C, Alipour V, Alizade H, 
Aljunid SM, Alla F, Allebeck P, Almasi-Hashiani A, Al-Mekhlafi HM, Alonso J, 
Altirkawi KA, Amini-Rarani M, Amiri F, Amugsi DA, Ancuceanu R, Anderlini D, 
Anderson JA, Andrei CL, Andrei T, Angus C, Anjomshoa M, Ansari F, 
Ansari-Moghaddam A, Antonazzo IC, Antonio CAT, Antony CM, Antriyandarti E, 
Anvari D, Anwer R, Appiah SCY, Arabloo J, Arab-Zozani M, Ariani F, Armoon B, 
Ärnlöv J, Arzani A, Asadi-Aliabadi M, Asadi-Pooya AA, Ashbaugh C, Assmus M, 
Atafar Z, Atnafu DD, Atout MMW, Ausloos F, Ausloos M, Ayala Quintanilla BP, 
Ayano G, Ayanore MA, Azari S, Azarian G, Azene ZN, Badawi A, Badiye AD, Bahrami 
MA, Bakhshaei MH, Bakhtiari A, Bakkannavar SM, Baldasseroni A, Ball K, Ballew 
SH, Balzi D, Banach M, Banerjee SK, Bante AB, Baraki AG, Barker-Collo SL, 
Bärnighausen TW, Barrero LH, Barthelemy CM, Barua L, Basu S, Baune BT, Bayati M, 
Becker JS, Bedi N, Beghi E, Béjot Y, Bell ML, Bennitt FB, Bensenor IM, Berhe K, 
Berman AE, Bhagavathula AS, Bhageerathy R, Bhala N, Bhandari D, Bhattacharyya K, 
Bhutta ZA, Bijani A, Bikbov B, Bin Sayeed MS, Biondi A, Birihane BM, Bisignano 
C, Biswas RK, Bitew H, Bohlouli S, Bohluli M, Boon-Dooley AS, Borges G, Borzì 
AM, Borzouei S, Bosetti C, Boufous S, Braithwaite D, Breitborde NJK, Breitner S, 
Brenner H, Briant PS, Briko AN, Briko NI, Britton GB, Bryazka D, Bumgarner BR, 
Burkart K, Burnett RT, Burugina Nagaraja S, Butt ZA, Caetano Dos Santos FL, 
Cahill LE, Cámera LA, Campos-Nonato IR, Cárdenas R, Carreras G, Carrero JJ, 
Carvalho F, Castaldelli-Maia JM, Castañeda-Orjuela CA, Castelpietra G, Castro F, 
Causey K, Cederroth CR, Cercy KM, Cerin E, Chandan JS, Chang KL, Charlson FJ, 
Chattu VK, Chaturvedi S, Cherbuin N, Chimed-Ochir O, Cho DY, Choi JJ, 
Christensen H, Chu DT, Chung MT, Chung SC, Cicuttini FM, Ciobanu LG, Cirillo M, 
Classen TKD, Cohen AJ, Compton K, Cooper OR, Costa VM, Cousin E, Cowden RG, 
Cross DH, Cruz JA, Dahlawi SMA, Damasceno AAM, Damiani G, Dandona L, Dandona R, 
Dangel WJ, Danielsson AK, Dargan PI, Darwesh AM, Daryani A, Das JK, Das Gupta R, 
das Neves J, Dávila-Cervantes CA, Davitoiu DV, De Leo D, Degenhardt L, DeLang M, 
Dellavalle RP, Demeke FM, Demoz GT, Demsie DG, Denova-Gutiérrez E, Dervenis N, 
Dhungana GP, Dianatinasab M, Dias da Silva D, Diaz D, Dibaji Forooshani ZS, 
Djalalinia S, Do HT, Dokova K, Dorostkar F, Doshmangir L, Driscoll TR, Duncan 
BB, Duraes AR, Eagan AW, Edvardsson D, El Nahas N, El Sayed I, El Tantawi M, 
Elbarazi I, Elgendy IY, El-Jaafary SI, Elyazar IR, Emmons-Bell S, Erskine HE, 
Eskandarieh S, Esmaeilnejad S, Esteghamati A, Estep K, Etemadi A, Etisso AE, 
Fanzo J, Farahmand M, Fareed M, Faridnia R, Farioli A, Faro A, Faruque M, 
Farzadfar F, Fattahi N, Fazlzadeh M, Feigin VL, Feldman R, Fereshtehnejad SM, 
Fernandes E, Ferrara G, Ferrari AJ, Ferreira ML, Filip I, Fischer F, Fisher JL, 
Flor LS, Foigt NA, Folayan MO, Fomenkov AA, Force LM, Foroutan M, Franklin RC, 
Freitas M, Fu W, Fukumoto T, Furtado JM, Gad MM, Gakidou E, Gallus S, 
Garcia-Basteiro AL, Gardner WM, Geberemariyam BS, Gebreslassie AAAA, Geremew A, 
Gershberg Hayoon A, Gething PW, Ghadimi M, Ghadiri K, Ghaffarifar F, 
Ghafourifard M, Ghamari F, Ghashghaee A, Ghiasvand H, Ghith N, Gholamian A, 
Ghosh R, Gill PS, Ginindza TGG, Giussani G, Gnedovskaya EV, Goharinezhad S, 
Gopalani SV, Gorini G, Goudarzi H, Goulart AC, Greaves F, Grivna M, Grosso G, 
Gubari MIM, Gugnani HC, Guimarães RA, Guled RA, Guo G, Guo Y, Gupta R, Gupta T, 
Haddock B, Hafezi-Nejad N, Hafiz A, Haj-Mirzaian A, Haj-Mirzaian A, Hall BJ, 
Halvaei I, Hamadeh RR, Hamidi S, Hammer MS, Hankey GJ, Haririan H, Haro JM, 
Hasaballah AI, Hasan MM, Hasanpoor E, Hashi A, Hassanipour S, Hassankhani H, 
Havmoeller RJ, Hay SI, Hayat K, Heidari G, Heidari-Soureshjani R, Henrikson HJ, 
Herbert ME, Herteliu C, Heydarpour F, Hird TR, Hoek HW, Holla R, Hoogar P, 
Hosgood HD, Hossain N, Hosseini M, Hosseinzadeh M, Hostiuc M, Hostiuc S, Househ 
M, Hsairi M, Hsieh VC, Hu G, Hu K, Huda TM, Humayun A, Huynh CK, Hwang BF, 
Iannucci VC, Ibitoye SE, Ikeda N, Ikuta KS, Ilesanmi OS, Ilic IM, Ilic MD, 
Inbaraj LR, Ippolito H, Iqbal U, Irvani SSN, Irvine CMS, Islam MM, Islam SMS, 
Iso H, Ivers RQ, Iwu CCD, Iwu CJ, Iyamu IO, Jaafari J, Jacobsen KH, Jafari H, 
Jafarinia M, Jahani MA, Jakovljevic M, Jalilian F, James SL, Janjani H, Javaheri 
T, Javidnia J, Jeemon P, Jenabi E, Jha RP, Jha V, Ji JS, Johansson L, John O, 
John-Akinola YO, Johnson CO, Jonas JB, Joukar F, Jozwiak JJ, Jürisson M, Kabir 
A, Kabir Z, Kalani H, Kalani R, Kalankesh LR, Kalhor R, Kanchan T, Kapoor N, 
Karami Matin B, Karch A, Karim MA, Kassa GM, Katikireddi SV, Kayode GA, Kazemi 
Karyani A, Keiyoro PN, Keller C, Kemmer L, Kendrick PJ, Khalid N, Khammarnia M, 
Khan EA, Khan M, Khatab K, Khater MM, Khatib MN, Khayamzadeh M, Khazaei S, 
Kieling C, Kim YJ, Kimokoti RW, Kisa A, Kisa S, Kivimäki M, Knibbs LD, Knudsen 
AKS, Kocarnik JM, Kochhar S, Kopec JA, Korshunov VA, Koul PA, Koyanagi A, 
Kraemer MUG, Krishan K, Krohn KJ, Kromhout H, Kuate Defo B, Kumar GA, Kumar V, 
Kurmi OP, Kusuma D, La Vecchia C, Lacey B, Lal DK, Lalloo R, Lallukka T, Lami 
FH, Landires I, Lang JJ, Langan SM, Larsson AO, Lasrado S, Lauriola P, Lazarus 
JV, Lee PH, Lee SWH, LeGrand KE, Leigh J, Leonardi M, Lescinsky H, Leung J, Levi 
M, Li S, Lim LL, Linn S, Liu S, Liu S, Liu Y, Lo J, Lopez AD, Lopez JCF, 
Lopukhov PD, Lorkowski S, Lotufo PA, Lu A, Lugo A, Maddison ER, Mahasha PW, 
Mahdavi MM, Mahmoudi M, Majeed A, Maleki A, Maleki S, Malekzadeh R, Malta DC, 
Mamun AA, Manda AL, Manguerra H, Mansour-Ghanaei F, Mansouri B, Mansournia MA, 
Mantilla Herrera AM, Maravilla JC, Marks A, Martin RV, Martini S, Martins-Melo 
FR, Masaka A, Masoumi SZ, Mathur MR, Matsushita K, Maulik PK, McAlinden C, 
McGrath JJ, McKee M, Mehndiratta MM, Mehri F, Mehta KM, Memish ZA, Mendoza W, 
Menezes RG, Mengesha EW, Mereke A, Mereta ST, Meretoja A, Meretoja TJ, Mestrovic 
T, Miazgowski B, Miazgowski T, Michalek IM, Miller TR, Mills EJ, Mini GK, Miri 
M, Mirica A, Mirrakhimov EM, Mirzaei H, Mirzaei M, Mirzaei R, Mirzaei-Alavijeh 
M, Misganaw AT, Mithra P, Moazen B, Mohammad DK, Mohammad Y, Mohammad Gholi 
Mezerji N, Mohammadian-Hafshejani A, Mohammadifard N, Mohammadpourhodki R, 
Mohammed AS, Mohammed H, Mohammed JA, Mohammed S, Mokdad AH, Molokhia M, Monasta 
L, Mooney MD, Moradi G, Moradi M, Moradi-Lakeh M, Moradzadeh R, Moraga P, 
Morawska L, Morgado-da-Costa J, Morrison SD, Mosapour A, Mosser JF, Mouodi S, 
Mousavi SM, Mousavi Khaneghah A, Mueller UO, Mukhopadhyay S, Mullany EC, Musa 
KI, Muthupandian S, Nabhan AF, Naderi M, Nagarajan AJ, Nagel G, Naghavi M, 
Naghshtabrizi B, Naimzada MD, Najafi F, Nangia V, Nansseu JR, Naserbakht M, 
Nayak VC, Negoi I, Ngunjiri JW, Nguyen CT, Nguyen HLT, Nguyen M, Nigatu YT, 
Nikbakhsh R, Nixon MR, Nnaji CA, Nomura S, Norrving B, Noubiap JJ, Nowak C, 
Nunez-Samudio V, Oţoiu A, Oancea B, Odell CM, Ogbo FA, Oh IH, Okunga EW, 
Oladnabi M, Olagunju AT, Olusanya BO, Olusanya JO, Omer MO, Ong KL, Onwujekwe 
OE, Orpana HM, Ortiz A, Osarenotor O, Osei FB, Ostroff SM, Otstavnov N, 
Otstavnov SS, Øverland S, Owolabi MO, P A M, Padubidri JR, Palladino R, 
Panda-Jonas S, Pandey A, Parry CDH, Pasovic M, Pasupula DK, Patel SK, Pathak M, 
Patten SB, Patton GC, Pazoki Toroudi H, Peden AE, Pennini A, Pepito VCF, Peprah 
EK, Pereira DM, Pesudovs K, Pham HQ, Phillips MR, Piccinelli C, Pilz TM, Piradov 
MA, Pirsaheb M, Plass D, Polinder S, Polkinghorne KR, Pond CD, Postma MJ, 
Pourjafar H, Pourmalek F, Poznańska A, Prada SI, Prakash V, Pribadi DRA, Pupillo 
E, Quazi Syed Z, Rabiee M, Rabiee N, Radfar A, Rafiee A, Raggi A, Rahman MA, 
Rajabpour-Sanati A, Rajati F, Rakovac I, Ram P, Ramezanzadeh K, Ranabhat CL, Rao 
