PC, Rao SJ, Rashedi V, Rathi P, Rawaf DL, Rawaf S, Rawal L, Rawassizadeh R, 
Rawat R, Razo C, Redford SB, Reiner RC Jr, Reitsma MB, Remuzzi G, Renjith V, 
Renzaho AMN, Resnikoff S, Rezaei N, Rezaei N, Rezapour A, Rhinehart PA, Riahi 
SM, Ribeiro DC, Ribeiro D, Rickard J, Rivera JA, Roberts NLS, Rodríguez-Ramírez 
S, Roever L, Ronfani L, Room R, Roshandel G, Roth GA, Rothenbacher D, Rubagotti 
E, Rwegerera GM, Sabour S, Sachdev PS, Saddik B, Sadeghi E, Sadeghi M, Saeedi R, 
Saeedi Moghaddam S, Safari Y, Safi S, Safiri S, Sagar R, Sahebkar A, Sajadi SM, 
Salam N, Salamati P, Salem H, Salem MRR, Salimzadeh H, Salman OM, Salomon JA, 
Samad Z, Samadi Kafil H, Sambala EZ, Samy AM, Sanabria J, Sánchez-Pimienta TG, 
Santomauro DF, Santos IS, Santos JV, Santric-Milicevic MM, Saraswathy SYI, 
Sarmiento-Suárez R, Sarrafzadegan N, Sartorius B, Sarveazad A, Sathian B, 
Sathish T, Sattin D, Saxena S, Schaeffer LE, Schiavolin S, Schlaich MP, Schmidt 
MI, Schutte AE, Schwebel DC, Schwendicke F, Senbeta AM, Senthilkumaran S, 
Sepanlou SG, Serdar B, Serre ML, Shadid J, Shafaat O, Shahabi S, Shaheen AA, 
Shaikh MA, Shalash AS, Shams-Beyranvand M, Shamsizadeh M, Sharafi K, Sheikh A, 
Sheikhtaheri A, Shibuya K, Shield KD, Shigematsu M, Shin JI, Shin MJ, Shiri R, 
Shirkoohi R, Shuval K, Siabani S, Sierpinski R, Sigfusdottir ID, Sigurvinsdottir 
R, Silva JP, Simpson KE, Singh JA, Singh P, Skiadaresi E, Skou ST, Skryabin VY, 
Smith EUR, Soheili A, Soltani S, Soofi M, Sorensen RJD, Soriano JB, Sorrie MB, 
Soshnikov S, Soyiri IN, Spencer CN, Spotin A, Sreeramareddy CT, Srinivasan V, 
Stanaway JD, Stein C, Stein DJ, Steiner C, Stockfelt L, Stokes MA, Straif K, 
Stubbs JL, Sufiyan MB, Suleria HAR, Suliankatchi Abdulkader R, Sulo G, Sultan I, 
Szumowski Ł, Tabarés-Seisdedos R, Tabb KM, Tabuchi T, Taherkhani A, Tajdini M, 
Takahashi K, Takala JS, Tamiru AT, Taveira N, Tehrani-Banihashemi A, Temsah MH, 
Tesema GA, Tessema ZT, Thurston GD, Titova MV, Tohidinik HR, Tonelli M, 
Topor-Madry R, Topouzis F, Torre AE, Touvier M, Tovani-Palone MRR, Tran BX, 
Travillian R, Tsatsakis A, Tudor Car L, Tyrovolas S, Uddin R, Umeokonkwo CD, 
Unnikrishnan B, Upadhyay E, Vacante M, Valdez PR, van Donkelaar A, Vasankari TJ, 
Vasseghian Y, Veisani Y, Venketasubramanian N, Violante FS, Vlassov V, Vollset 
SE, Vos T, Vukovic R, Waheed Y, Wallin MT, Wang Y, Wang YP, Watson A, Wei J, Wei 
MYW, Weintraub RG, Weiss J, Werdecker A, West JJ, Westerman R, Whisnant JL, 
Whiteford HA, Wiens KE, Wolfe CDA, Wozniak SS, Wu AM, Wu J, Wulf Hanson S, Xu G, 
Xu R, Yadgir S, Yahyazadeh Jabbari SH, Yamagishi K, Yaminfirooz M, Yano Y, Yaya 
S, Yazdi-Feyzabadi V, Yeheyis TY, Yilgwan CS, Yilma MT, Yip P, Yonemoto N, 
Younis MZ, Younker TP, Yousefi B, Yousefi Z, Yousefinezhadi T, Yousuf AY, Yu C, 
Yusefzadeh H, Zahirian Moghadam T, Zamani M, Zamanian M, Zandian H, Zastrozhin 
MS, Zhang Y, Zhang ZJ, Zhao JT, Zhao XG, Zhao Y, Zhou M, Ziapour A, Zimsen SRM, 
Brauer M, Afshin A, Lim SS.

Comment in
    MMW Fortschr Med. 2020 Nov;162(19):10-11.
    Lancet. 2021 May 8;397(10286):1709-1710.
    Lancet. 2022 Apr 2;399(10332):e23-e26.
    Nature. 2022 Oct;610(7931):231.

BACKGROUND: Rigorous analysis of levels and trends in exposure to leading risk 
factors and quantification of their effect on human health are important to 
identify where public health is making progress and in which cases current 
efforts are inadequate. The Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk 
Factors Study (GBD) 2019 provides a standardised and comprehensive assessment of 
the magnitude of risk factor exposure, relative risk, and attributable burden of 
disease.
METHODS: GBD 2019 estimated attributable mortality, years of life lost (YLLs), 
years of life lived with disability (YLDs), and disability-adjusted life-years 
(DALYs) for 87 risk factors and combinations of risk factors, at the global 
level, regionally, and for 204 countries and territories. GBD uses a 
hierarchical list of risk factors so that specific risk factors (eg, sodium 
intake), and related aggregates (eg, diet quality), are both evaluated. This 
method has six analytical steps. (1) We included 560 risk-outcome pairs that met 
criteria for convincing or probable evidence on the basis of research studies. 
12 risk-outcome pairs included in GBD 2017 no longer met inclusion criteria and 
47 risk-outcome pairs for risks already included in GBD 2017 were added based on 
new evidence. (2) Relative risks were estimated as a function of exposure based 
on published systematic reviews, 81 systematic reviews done for GBD 2019, and 
meta-regression. (3) Levels of exposure in each age-sex-location-year included 
in the study were estimated based on all available data sources using 
spatiotemporal Gaussian process regression, DisMod-MR 2.1, a Bayesian 
meta-regression method, or alternative methods. (4) We determined, from 
published trials or cohort studies, the level of exposure associated with 
minimum risk, called the theoretical minimum risk exposure level. (5) 
Attributable deaths, YLLs, YLDs, and DALYs were computed by multiplying 
population attributable fractions (PAFs) by the relevant outcome quantity for 
each age-sex-location-year. (6) PAFs and attributable burden for combinations of 
risk factors were estimated taking into account mediation of different risk 
factors through other risk factors. Across all six analytical steps, 30 652 
distinct data sources were used in the analysis. Uncertainty in each step of the 
analysis was propagated into the final estimates of attributable burden. 
Exposure levels for dichotomous, polytomous, and continuous risk factors were 
summarised with use of the summary exposure value to facilitate comparisons over 
time, across location, and across risks. Because the entire time series from 
1990 to 2019 has been re-estimated with use of consistent data and methods, 
these results supersede previously published GBD estimates of attributable 
burden.
FINDINGS: The largest declines in risk exposure from 2010 to 2019 were among a 
set of risks that are strongly linked to social and economic development, 
including household air pollution; unsafe water, sanitation, and handwashing; 
and child growth failure. Global declines also occurred for tobacco smoking and 
lead exposure. The largest increases in risk exposure were for ambient 
particulate matter pollution, drug use, high fasting plasma glucose, and high 
body-mass index. In 2019, the leading Level 2 risk factor globally for 
attributable deaths was high systolic blood pressure, which accounted for 10·8 
million (95% uncertainty interval [UI] 9·51-12·1) deaths (19·2% [16·9-21·3] of 
all deaths in 2019), followed by tobacco (smoked, second-hand, and chewing), 
which accounted for 8·71 million (8·12-9·31) deaths (15·4% [14·6-16·2] of all 
deaths in 2019). The leading Level 2 risk factor for attributable DALYs globally 
in 2019 was child and maternal malnutrition, which largely affects health in the 
youngest age groups and accounted for 295 million (253-350) DALYs (11·6% 
[10·3-13·1] of all global DALYs that year). The risk factor burden varied 
considerably in 2019 between age groups and locations. Among children aged 0-9 
years, the three leading detailed risk factors for attributable DALYs were all 
related to malnutrition. Iron deficiency was the leading risk factor for those 
aged 10-24 years, alcohol use for those aged 25-49 years, and high systolic 
blood pressure for those aged 50-74 years and 75 years and older.
INTERPRETATION: Overall, the record for reducing exposure to harmful risks over 
the past three decades is poor. Success with reducing smoking and lead exposure 
through regulatory policy might point the way for a stronger role for public 
policy on other risks in addition to continued efforts to provide information on 
risk factor harm to the general public.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30752-2
PMCID: PMC7566194
PMID: 33069327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Spine J. 2021 Feb;21(2):193-201. doi: 10.1016/j.spinee.2020.10.012. Epub
2020  Oct 15.

A cost benefit analysis of increasing surgical technology in lumbar spine 
fusion.

Passias PG(1), Brown AE(2), Alas H(2), Bortz CA(2), Pierce KE(2), Hassanzadeh 
H(3), Labaran LA(3), Puvanesarajah V(3), Vasquez-Montes D(4), Wang E(4), 
Ihejirika RC(4), Diebo BG(5), Lafage V(6), Lafage R(6), Sciubba DM(7), Janjua 
MB(8), Protopsaltis TS(4), Buckland AJ(4), Gerling MC(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Spinal Surgery/Departments of Orthopaedic and Neurosurgery, NYU 
Medical Center, NY Spine Institute, New York, NY, USA. Electronic address: 
peter.passias@nyumc.org.
(2)Division of Spinal Surgery/Departments of Orthopaedic and Neurosurgery, NYU 
Medical Center, NY Spine Institute, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, University of Virginia School of Medicine, 
Charlottesville, VA, USA.
(4)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, New York, 
NY, USA.
(5)Deparment of Orthopedic Surgery, SUNY Downstate, New York, NY, USA.
(6)Deparment of Orthopedic Surgery, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, NY, 
USA.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore MD, USA.
(8)Department of Surgery, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO, USA.

BACKGROUND CONTEXT: Numerous advances have been made in the field of spine 
fusion, such as minimally invasive (MIS) or robotic-assisted spine surgery. 
However, it is unknown how these advances have impacted the cost of care.
PURPOSE: Compare the economic outcomes of lumbar spine fusion between open, MIS, 
and robot-assisted surgery patients.
STUDY DESIGN/SETTING: Retrospective review of a single center spine surgery 
database.
PATIENT SAMPLE: Three hundred sixty propensity matched patients.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs, EuroQol-5D (EQ5D), cost per quality adjusted life years 
(QALY).
METHODS: Inclusion criteria: surgical patients >18 years undergoing lumbar 
fusion surgery. Patients were categorized into 3 groups based on procedure type: 
open, MIS, or robotic. Open patients undergoing poster spinal fusion were 
considered as the control group. MIS patients included those undergoing 
transforaminal or lateral lumbar interbody fusion with percutaneous screws. 
Robotic patients were those undergoing robot-assisted fusion. Propensity score 
matching was performed between all groups for the number of levels fused. Costs 
were calculated using the PearlDiver database, which reflects both private 
insurance and Medicare reimbursement claims for ICD-9 codes. For robotic cases, 
costs were reflective of operational fees and initial purchase cost. 
Complications and comorbidities and major complications and comorbidities were 
assessed according to CMS.gov manual definitions. QALYs and cost per QALY were 
calculated using a 3% discount rate to account for residual decline to life 
expectancy (78.7 years). Costs per QALY were calculated for both 1 year and life 
expectancy, assuming no loss of benefit. A 10,000 trial Monte Carlo simulation 
with probabilistic sensitivity analysis (PSA) assessed our model parameters and 
costs.
RESULTS: Three hundred sixty propensity matched patients (120 open, 120 MIS, 120 
robotic) met inclusion criteria. Descriptive statistics for the cohort were: age 
58.8±13.5, 50% women, BMI 29.4±6.3, operative time 294.4±119.0, LOS 4.56±3.31 
days, estimated blood loss 515.9±670.0 cc, and 2.3±2.2 average levels fused. 
Rates of post-op complications were significantly higher in robotic cases versus 
open and MIS (43% vs. 21% and 22% for open and MIS, p<.05). However, revision 
rates were comparable between all groups (3% open, 3% MIS, 5% robotic, p>.05). 
After factoring in complications, revisions, and purchasing and operating fees, 
the costs of robotic cases was significantly higher than both open and MIS 
surgery ($60,047.01 vs. $42,538.98 open and $41,471.21 MIS). In a subanalysis of 
42 patients with baseline (BL) and 1Y EQ5D data, the cost per QALY at 1Y for 
open, MIS, and robot-assisted cases was $296,624.48, $115,911.69, and 
$592,734.30. If utility gained was sustained to life expectancy, the cost per 
QALY was $14,905.75, $5,824.71, $29,785.64 for open, MIS, and robot-assisted 
cases. Results of the PSA were consistent with MIS surgery having the most 
incremental cost effectiveness when compared to open and robotic surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Numerous advances have been made in the field of spine surgery, 
however, there has been limited discussion of the effect these advances have on 
economic outcomes. When matched for levels fused, robot-assisted surgery 
patients had significantly higher rates of complications and 30% higher costs of 
surgery compared to minimally invasive and open spine surgery patients. While 1 
year economic outcomes were not optimal for robotic surgery cases, the projected 
costs per QALYs at life expectancy were well below established acceptable 
thresholds. The above findings may be reflective of an educational learning 
curve and emerging surgical technologies undergoing progressive refinement.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.spinee.2020.10.012
PMID: 33069859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Int Immunopharmacol. 2020 Dec;89(Pt B):107008. doi: 
10.1016/j.intimp.2020.107008. Epub 2020 Oct 15.

IBI112, a selective anti-IL23p19 monoclonal antibody, displays high efficacy in 
IL-23-induced psoriasiform dermatitis.

Li L(1), Wu Z(1), Wu M(1), Qiu X(1), Wu Y(1), Kuang Z(1), Wang L(1), Sun T(1), 
Liu Y(1), Yi S(1), Jing H(1), Zhou S(1), Chen B(1), Wu D(1), Wu W(2), Liu J(3).

Author information:
(1)Innovent Biologics (Suzhou) Co., Ltd, 168 Dongping Street, Suzhou Industrial 
Park, Suzhou 215123, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Innovent Biologics (Suzhou) Co., Ltd, 168 Dongping Street, Suzhou Industrial 
Park, Suzhou 215123, Jiangsu, China. Electronic address: 
weiwei.wu@innoventbio.com.
(3)Innovent Biologics (Suzhou) Co., Ltd, 168 Dongping Street, Suzhou Industrial 
Park, Suzhou 215123, Jiangsu, China. Electronic address: 
junjian.liu@innoventbio.com.

Psoriasis is a highly prevalent inflammatory skin disease. Plaque psoriasis is 
the most common type of psoriasis, and the interleukin (IL)-23/IL-17 axis plays 
a key role in disease progression. In this article, we describe IBI112, a highly 
potent anti-IL-23 monoclonal antibody under clinical development, which 
efficiently neutralizes IL23p19, a subunit of IL-23, to abrogate IL-23 binding 
to its receptor and block downstream signal transducer and activator of 
transcription 3 (STAT3) phosphorylation. Specifically, IBI112 blocked IL-23 
induced downstream IL-17 production from splenocytes. In addition, IBI112 
administration reduced skin thickness in a psoriasis-like epidermal hyperplasia 
mouse model challenged by continuous hIL-23 injection. IBI112 showed synergism 
with an anti-IL-1R antibody in controlling disease progression in an imiquimod 
(IMQ) -induced psoriasis model. Moreover, with mutations in Fc fragment of 
IBI112, extended half-life was observed when compared to the wild-type IgG1 
version in both human-FcRn-knock-in mice and cynomolgus monkeys. IBI112 was well 
tolerated after high dose administration in cynomolgus monkeys. In summary, we 
have developed an extended half-life, anti-IL-23p19 monoclonal antibody, IBI112, 
which efficiently neutralized IL-23, blocked IL-23-induced IL-17 production, and 
alleviated disease symptoms in two mouse models of psoriasis.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2020.107008
PMID: 33069927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. J Med Syst. 2020 Oct 17;44(12):199. doi: 10.1007/s10916-020-01666-8.

Sensors are Capable to Help in the Measurement of the Results of the Timed-Up 
and Go Test? A Systematic Review.

Ponciano V(1)(2), Pires IM(3)(4)(5), Ribeiro FR(6), Spinsante S(7).

Author information:
(1)R&D Unit in Digital Services, Applications and Content, Polytechnic Institute 
of Castelo Branco, Castelo Branco, Portugal. Vasco.ponciano@ipcbcampus.pt.
(2)Altranportugal, Lisbon, Portugal. Vasco.ponciano@ipcbcampus.pt.
(3)Instituto de Telecomunicações, Universidade da Beira Interior, Covilhã, 
Portugal.
(4)Computer Science Department, Polytechnic Institute of Viseu, Viseu, Portugal.
(5)UICISA:E Research Centre, School of Health, Polytechnic Institute of Viseu, 
Viseu, Portugal.
(6)R&D Unit in Digital Services, Applications and Content, Polytechnic Institute 
of Castelo Branco, Castelo Branco, Portugal.
(7)Department of Information Engineering, Marche Polytechnic University, Ancona, 
Italy.

The analysis of movements used in physiotherapy areas related to the elderly is 
becoming increasingly important due to factors such as the increase in the 
average life expectancy and the rate of elderly people over the whole 
population. In this systematic review, we try to determine how the inertial 
sensors embedded in mobile devices are exploited for the measurement of the 
different parameters involved in the Timed-Up and Go test. The results show the 
mobile devices equipped with onboard motion sensors can be exploited for these 
types of studies: the most commonly used sensors are the magnetometer, 
accelerometer and gyroscope available in consumer off-the-shelf smartphones. 
Other features typically used to evaluate the Timed-Up and Go test are the time 
duration, the angular velocity and the number of steps, allowing for the 
recognition of some diseases as well as the measurement of the subject's 
performance during the test execution.

DOI: 10.1007/s10916-020-01666-8
PMID: 33070247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. J Med Case Rep. 2020 Oct 19;14(1):195. doi: 10.1186/s13256-020-02532-4.

Ureteroiliac artery fistula caused by full-length metallic ureteral stenting in 
a malignant ureteral obstruction: a case report.

Miyauchi Y(1), Osaki Y(2), Naito H(2), Tsunemori H(2), Itoh M(3), Kanenishi 
K(3), Norikane T(4), Sanomura T(4), Nishiyama Y(4), Sugimoto M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Kagawa University Faculty of Medicine, 1750-1 Ikenobe, 
Miki-cho. Kita-gun, Kagawa, 761-0793, Japan. miyauchi@med.kagawa-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Urology, Kagawa University Faculty of Medicine, 1750-1 Ikenobe, 
Miki-cho. Kita-gun, Kagawa, 761-0793, Japan.
(3)Department of Perinatology and Gynecology, Kagawa University Faculty of 
Medicine, Kagawa, Japan.
(4)Department of Radiology, Kagawa University Hospital, Kagawa, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The metallic stent is a new device for relieving the urinary tract 
in patients with malignant ureteral obstruction with short life expectancy and 
has been used frequently worldwide for its efficacy and safety. A 
ureteroarterial fistula with indwelling ureteral stent is rare but highly fatal, 
and there are several reports of ureteroarterial fistula treated by conventional 
polymer stents, although there are no reports on metallic stents. To our 
knowledge, this paper describes the first case of a ureteroiliac artery fistula 
caused by a full-length metallic ureteral stent in malignant ureteral 
obstruction.
CASE PRESENTATION: Our patient was a 57-year-old Asian woman with a history of 
locally advanced cervical cancer who underwent abdominal total hysterectomy and 
chemoradiotherapy. She was diagnosed with right hydronephrosis and hydroureter 
secondary to upper ureteral obstruction because of retroperitoneal lymph node 
metastasis. A urinary tract obstruction after placement of 12 months of polymer 
stent followed by 18 months of metallic stent was relieved, consequently 
resulting in intermittent gross hematuria with bladder tamponade and anemia. 
Contrast-enhanced computed tomography could not reveal a ureteroarterial 
fistula; however, retrograde pyelography emphasized the existence of a 
ureteroiliac artery fistula. The patient underwent successful endovascular 
heparin-bonded stent graft placement, and her gross hematuria disappeared 
thereafter.
CONCLUSION: The metallic stent is a useful device for patients with malignant 
ureteral obstruction with a short life expectancy, although it may impose a 
higher pressure on the extraureteral tissue than conventional polymer stents due 
to its properties and may cause a ureteroarterial fistula. The narrowing of the 
external iliac artery diameter visualized by computed tomography may be helpful 
for predicting ureteroarterial fistulas.

DOI: 10.1186/s13256-020-02532-4
PMCID: PMC7569756
PMID: 33070773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


333. J Food Sci Technol. 2020 Nov;57(11):4293-4298. doi:
10.1007/s13197-020-04670-5.  Epub 2020 Aug 9.

Evaluation of different salted governing liquids on shelf life extension of 
lacto-fermented mozzarella cheese.

Zappia A(1), Branca ML(1), Piscopo A(1), Poiana M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of AGRARIA, Mediterranea University of Reggio Calabria, 89124 
Vito, Reggio Calabria, Italy.

The effect of different governing liquids on qualitative parameters of 
lacto-fermented mozzarella cheeses were studied. 0.6% calcium lactate solution 
maintained the quality of mozzarella cheese for microbial, color and textural 
properties and prolonged its shelf life up to 18 days, also improving its 
antioxidant activity by Trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity and Oxygen 
radical absorbance capacity assays.

© Association of Food Scientists & Technologists (India) 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-020-04670-5
PMCID: PMC7520476
PMID: 33071351


334. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2020 Sep 18;11:572490. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2020.572490. eCollection 2020.

Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease as a Canonical Example of Metabolic 
Inflammatory-Based Liver Disease Showing a Sex-Specific Prevalence: Relevance of 
Estrogen Signaling.

Della Torre S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Milan, Milan, Italy.

There is extensive evidence supporting the interplay between metabolism and 
immune response, that have evolved in close relationship, sharing regulatory 
molecules and signaling systems, to support biological functions. Nowadays, the 
disruption of this interaction in the context of obesity and overnutrition 
underlies the increasing incidence of many inflammatory-based metabolic 
diseases, even in a sex-specific fashion. During evolution, the interplay 
between metabolism and reproduction has reached a degree of complexity 
particularly high in female mammals, likely to ensure reproduction only under 
favorable conditions. Several factors may account for differences in the 
incidence and progression of inflammatory-based metabolic diseases between 
females and males, thus contributing to age-related disease development and 
difference in life expectancy between the two sexes. Among these factors, 
estrogens, acting mainly through Estrogen Receptors (ERs), have been reported to 
regulate several metabolic pathways and inflammatory processes particularly in 
the liver, the metabolic organ showing the highest degree of sexual dimorphism. 
This review aims to investigate on the interaction between metabolism and 
inflammation in the liver, focusing on the relevance of estrogen signaling in 
counteracting the development and progression of non-alcoholic fatty liver 
disease (NAFLD), a canonical example of metabolic inflammatory-based liver 
disease showing a sex-specific prevalence. Understanding the role of 
estrogens/ERs in the regulation of hepatic metabolism and inflammation may 
provide the basis for the development of sex-specific therapeutic strategies for 
the management of such an inflammatory-based metabolic disease and its 
cardio-metabolic consequences.

Copyright © 2020 Della Torre.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2020.572490
PMCID: PMC7531579
PMID: 33071979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Front Immunol. 2020 Sep 18;11:2089. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.02089.
eCollection  2020.

Mumps Outbreaks in Vaccinated Populations-Is It Time to Re-assess the Clinical 
Efficacy of Vaccines?

Connell AR(1), Connell J(2), Leahy TR(3)(4), Hassan J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)National Children's Research Centre, Children's Health Ireland, Dublin, 
Ireland.
(2)National Virus Reference Laboratory, University College Dublin, Dublin, 
Ireland.
(3)Children's Health Ireland, Dublin, Ireland.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, University of Dublin, Trinity College, Dublin, 
Ireland.

History illustrates the remarkable public health impact of mass vaccination, by 
dramatically improving life expectancy and reducing the burden of infectious 
diseases and co-morbidities worldwide. It has been perceived that if an 
individual adhered to the MMR vaccine schedule that immunity to mumps virus 
(MuV) would be lifelong. Recent mumps outbreaks in individuals who had received 
two doses of the Measles Mumps Rubella (MMR) vaccine has challenged the efficacy 
of the MMR vaccine. However, clinical symptoms, complications, viral shedding 
and transmission associated with mumps infection has been shown to be reduced in 
vaccinated individuals, demonstrating a benefit of this vaccine. Therefore, the 
question of what constitutes a good mumps vaccine and how its impact is assessed 
in this modern era remains to be addressed. Epidemiology of the individuals most 
affected by the outbreaks (predominantly young adults) and variance in the 
circulating MuV genotype have been well-described alluding to a collection of 
influences such as vaccine hesitancy, heterogeneous vaccine uptake, primary, 
and/or secondary vaccine failures. This review aims to discuss in detail the 
interplay of factors thought to be contributing to the current mumps outbreaks 
seen in highly vaccinated populations. In addition, how mumps diagnoses has 
progressed and impacted the understanding of mumps infection since a mumps 
vaccine was first developed, the limitations of current laboratory tests in 
confirming protection in vaccinated individuals and how vaccine effectiveness is 
quantified are also considered. By highlighting knowledge gaps within this area, 
this state-of-the-art review proposes a change of perspective regarding the 
impact of a vaccine in a highly vaccinated population from a clinical, 
diagnostic and public perspective, highlighting a need for a paradigm shift on 
what is considered vaccine immunity.

Copyright © 2020 Connell, Connell, Leahy and Hassan.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.02089
PMCID: PMC7531022
PMID: 33072071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Front Immunol. 2020 Sep 25;11:579894. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.579894. 
eCollection 2020.

Reduction of T Lymphoma Cells and Immunological Invigoration in a Patient 
Concurrently Affected by Melanoma and Sezary Syndrome Treated With Nivolumab.

Narducci MG(1), Tosi A(2), Frezzolini A(1), Scala E(1), Passarelli F(1), 
Bonmassar L(1), Monopoli A(1), Accetturi MP(1), Cantonetti M(3), Antonini 
Cappellini GC(1), De Galitiis F(1), Rosato A(2)(4), Picozza M(5), Russo G(1), 
D'Atri S(1).

Author information:
(1)Istituto Dermopatico dell'Immacolata, IDI-IRCCS, Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Surgery, Oncology and Gastroenterology, Oncology and Immunology 
Section, University of Padua, Padua, Italy.
(3)Department of Hematology, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy.
(4)Veneto Institute of Oncology IOV-IRCCS, Padua, Italy.
(5)Laboratory of Neuroimmunology, IRCCS Fondazione Santa Lucia, Rome, Italy.

Despite the recent availability of several new drugs in hemato-oncology, T-cell 
lymphomas are still incurable and PD-1 blockade could represent a therapeutic 
chance for selected patients affected by these malignancies, although further 
studies are required to understand the biological effects of anti-PD-1 mAbs on 
neoplastic T-cells and to identify biomarkers for predicting and/or monitoring 
patients' response to therapy. Sezary Syndrome (SS) represents a rare and 
aggressive variant of cutaneous T cell lymphoma (CTCL) with a life expectancy of 
less than 5 years, characterized by the co-presence of neoplastic lymphocytes 
mainly in the blood, lymph nodes and skin. In this study we analyzed 
longitudinal blood samples and lesional skin biopsies of a patient concurrently 
affected by SS and melanoma who underwent 22 nivolumab administrations. In 
blood, we observed a progressive reduction of SS cell number and a raise in the 
percentage of normal CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and NK cells over total leukocytes. 
Eight weeks from the start of nivolumab, these immune cell subsets showed an 
increase of Ki67 proliferation index that positively correlated with their PD-1 
expression. Conversely, SS cells displayed a strong reduction of Ki67 positivity 
despite their high PD-1 expression. On skin biopsies we observed a marked 
reduction of SS cells which were no more detectable at the end of therapy. We 
also found an increase in the percentage of normal CD4+ T cells with a 
concomitant decrease of that of CD8+ and CD4+ CD8+ T cells, two cell subsets 
that, however, acquired a cytotoxic phenotype. In summary, our study 
demonstrated that nivolumab marked reduced SS tumor burden and invigorated 
immune responses in our patient. Our data also suggest, for the first time, that 
Ki67 expression in circulating neoplastic and immune cell subsets, as well as an 
enrichment in T cells with a cytotoxic phenotype in lesional skin could be 
valuable markers to assess early on treatment SS patients' response to PD-1 
blockade, a therapeutic strategy under clinical investigation in CTCL 
(ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03385226, NCT04118868).

Copyright © 2020 Narducci, Tosi, Frezzolini, Scala, Passarelli, Bonmassar, 
Monopoli, Accetturi, Cantonetti, Antonini Cappellini, De Galitiis, Rosato, 
Picozza, Russo and D’Atri.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.579894
PMCID: PMC7544958
PMID: 33072126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Mol Genet Metab Rep. 2020 Oct 1;25:100653. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgmr.2020.100653.
 eCollection 2020 Dec.

The diagnosis of inborn errors of metabolism in previously undiagnosed adults 
referred for medical genetics evaluation.

Lee KN(1)(2), Uhlmann W(1)(3), Hipp L(1), Quinonez SC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Genetic Medicine, University of 
Michigan, 24 Frank Lloyd Wright Dr., GPS: 4029 Ave Maria Drive Lobby C, Suite 
1300 Ann Arbor, 48105 Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Genetics, Metabolism and 
Genomic Medicine, University of Michigan, 1500 East Medical Center Drive, D5240 
MPB/Box 5718, 48109-5718 Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(3)Department of Human Genetics, University of Michigan, 4909 Buhl Building, 
1241 E. Catherine St., 48109-5618 Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

Traditionally thought of as a pediatric diagnostic and therapeutic dilemma, the 
diagnostic rate and spectrum of inborn errors of metabolism (IEM) in the adult 
population is largely unknown. A retrospective chart review of patients seen by 
the Michigan Medicine Adult Medical Genetics Clinic for clinical evaluation from 
2014 to 2018 was conducted. Patients referred for a primary indication possibly 
consistent with an IEM were considered. Variables included age at genetic 
evaluation, symptom onset age, sex, clinical course, organ systems involved, 
developmental history, family history and prior genetic testing. Of patients 
evaluated during the study period, 112 were referred for an indication possibly 
consistent with an IEM and underwent a complete biochemical workup with an IEM 
diagnostic rate of 9.8% achieved. An additional 9.8% were diagnosed with a 
non-IEM genetic diagnosis. Management changes were implemented in all IEM 
diagnoses. Metabolic disorders in the adult population are under-recognized and 
under-diagnosed. This report demonstrates the need for clinicians to consider 
these diagnoses in adults and either refer to a genetics clinic or initiate a 
biochemical workup. As advances in diagnosis, treatment, and life expectancy of 
patients with IEMs increases, recognizing and diagnosing these conditions can 
significantly impact care.

© 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgmr.2020.100653
PMCID: PMC7549142
PMID: 33072517


338. Eur Stroke J. 2020 Sep;5(3):252-261. doi: 10.1177/2396987320927672. Epub
2020  Jun 3.

Ischemic stroke in human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients: An 
increasingly age-related comorbidity?

Schaefer JH(1), Stephan C(2), Foerch C(1), Pfeilschifter W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Goethe University, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Infectious Diseases Division, Goethe 
University, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: The global incidence of ischemic stroke among patients with human 
immunodeficiency virus is increasing. The aim of this controlled case analysis 
was to study patient characteristics, stroke etiologies, and risk factors in 
human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients in a medical system with easy 
access to antiretroviral therapies.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We conducted a retrospective, observational study of human 
immunodeficiency virus-positive patients treated in our stroke unit and 
outpatient clinic in Germany between 2012 and 2018. A control group of all 
patients treated for acute ischemic stroke in 2018 was used to elicit possible 
differences in stroke localization, etiology, and distribution of risk factors.
RESULTS: Out of 3615 patients with an acute ischemic stroke, 24 (0.7%) were 
newly or previously diagnosed as human immunodeficiency virus-positive. Strokes 
in this cohort were caused by large-vessel disease (37.5%), small-vessel disease 
(20.8%), cryptogenic-embolism (20.8%), vasculitis (16.7%), and cardio-embolism 
(4.2%). Large-vessel disease-related strokes were more often located in the 
posterior circulation (77.8%). Compared to the control group, cardio-embolic 
strokes were less and vasculitis and large-vessel disease more frequent. Human 
immunodeficiency virus-positive patients were younger at stroke onset 
(53.7 ± 12.8 vs. 70.2 ± 14.6 years, p = 0.05).
DISCUSSION: Although the prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus-infection 
among patients treated for acute ischemic strokes appears low, this collective 
merits special attention due to a high burden of potentially modifiable risk 
factors and vasculitis.
CONCLUSION: Compared to previous studies, age at stroke onset was one of the 
highest, supporting the hypothesis that as antiretroviral therapy increases the 
life expectancy of people living with HIV/AIDS, they will be increasingly 
affected by cardiovascular disease. Human immunodeficiency virus-related 
cerebral vasculitis was associated with high mortality (75%).

© European Stroke Organisation 2020.

DOI: 10.1177/2396987320927672
PMCID: PMC7538766
PMID: 33072879


339. ACS Pharmacol Transl Sci. 2020 Aug 19;3(5):835-843. doi: 
10.1021/acsptsci.0c00098. eCollection 2020 Oct 9.

The Balance between the Safety of Mother, Fetus, and Newborn Undergoing Cystic 
Fibrosis Transmembrane Conductance Regulator Treatments during Pregnancy.

Qiu F(1), Habgood M(1), Schneider-Futschik EK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology & Therapeutics, Lung Health Research Centre, 
School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Dentistry and Health 
Sciences, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria 3010, Australia.

The recent development of modulators of cystic fibrosis transmembrane 
conductance regulator (CFTR) has allowed the life expectancy of cystic fibrosis 
patients to increase substantially resulting in more women with cystic fibrosis 
reaching child-bearing age. This however raises the issue of whether long-term 
use of CFTR modulators during pregnancy and breastfeeding is safe for the fetus 
and newborn, especially for their developing brain. A very limited number of 
case reports available so far has shown that the fetus or breastfed newborn is 
likely to be exposed to maternally administered CFTR modulators. Potential 
impacts of drug exposure on the developing brain are of particular importance as 
the consequences might not be immediately noticeable upon birth but may manifest 
later in life as permanent neurobehavioral problems. In order for drugs in 
maternal circulation to enter the fetal brain, they must overcome the placental 
barrier followed by a series of brain barriers, each consisting of cellular 
components and physiological mechanisms such as efflux transporters. The extent 
of protection they offer during development will provide valuable insights into 
the potential entry and the effects of CFTR modulators in the developing brain. 
This review aims to explore the current understanding of the safety of CFTR 
modulators, especially ivacaftor, during pregnancy and breastfeeding, 
characterize the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of ivacaftor, both under 
normal conditions and during pregnancy, to provide context for its potential 
impact on the developing brain. Finally, we discuss the determinants that need 
to be taken into consideration when investigating the entry of drugs into the 
fetus and newborn.

DOI: 10.1021/acsptsci.0c00098
PMCID: PMC7551705
PMID: 33073185

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


340. Patient. 2021 Jan;14(1):129-138. doi: 10.1007/s40271-020-00468-x. Epub 2020
Oct  19.

Utility Values for the CP-6D, a Cerebral Palsy-Specific Multi-Attribute Utility 
Instrument, Using a Discrete Choice Experiment.

Bahrampour M(1), Norman R(2), Byrnes J(3), Downes M(3), Scuffham PA(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Applied Health Economics, School of Medicine, Menzies Health 
Institute Queensland, Griffith University, Nathan, QLD, Australia. 
mina.bahrampour@griffithuni.edu.au.
(2)School of Public Health, Curtin University, Bentley, WA, Australia.
(3)Centre for Applied Health Economics, School of Medicine, Menzies Health 
Institute Queensland, Griffith University, Nathan, QLD, Australia.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: The CP-6D is a new preference-based measure derived 
from the CPQOL, a cerebral palsy-specific quality-of-life questionnaire. The 
CP-6D contains six dimensions, each with five levels. A preference-based value 
set is required to score the CP-6D on a utility scale and render it suitable for 
cost-utility analysis. This study aims to estimate the utility value set for the 
CP-6D for interventions for people with cerebral palsy (CP).
METHODS: A discrete choice experiment was designed and administrated to an adult 
Australian online panel. Each respondent answered 12 choice sets. Each choice 
was presented as a combination of the health state from the CP-6D and duration 
spent in that health state before death. Conditional logit and mixed logit 
regression were used to analyse the data. The utility values were estimated as a 
ratio of the coefficient of each dimension to the coefficient of the duration.
RESULTS: A total of 2002 participants completed the survey and responded to each 
choice. Generally, the dimension levels were monotonic, meaning the coefficients 
reflected the ordered nature of the levels in each dimension. The dimensions 
relating to manual ability, social well-being and acceptance had the greatest 
effect on choice. The value of the worst 'pits' health state is - 0.582.
CONCLUSION: This study provides the first CP-specific utility value set that can 
potentially be used in cost-utility analyses of interventions for people with CP 
where the CPQOL has been applied, both prospectively and retrospectively.

DOI: 10.1007/s40271-020-00468-x
PMID: 33073336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. J Int AIDS Soc. 2020 Oct;23(10):e25623. doi: 10.1002/jia2.25623.

Cost-effectiveness of one month of daily isoniazid and rifapentine versus three 
months of weekly isoniazid and rifapentine for prevention of tuberculosis among 
people receiving antiretroviral therapy in Uganda.

Ferguson O(1), Jo Y(1), Pennington J(1), Johnson K(1), Chaisson RE(1)(2), 
Churchyard G(3)(4), Dowdy D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, Center for Tuberculosis Research, Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Aurum Institute, Parktown, South Africa.
(4)School of Public Health, University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South 
Africa.

INTRODUCTION: Preventive therapy is essential for reducing tuberculosis (TB) 
burden among people living with HIV (PLWH) in high-burden settings. Short-course 
preventive therapy regimens, such as three-month weekly rifapentine and 
isoniazid (3HP) and one-month daily rifapentine and isoniazid (1HP), may help 
facilitate uptake of preventive therapy for latently infected patients, but the 
comparative cost-effectiveness of these regimens under different conditions is 
uncertain.
METHODS: We used a Markov state-transition model to estimate the incremental 
costs and effectiveness of 1HP versus 3HP in a simulated cohort of patients 
attending an HIV clinic in Uganda, as an example of a low-income, high-burden 
setting in which TB preventive therapy might be prescribed to PLWH. Our primary 
outcome was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, expressed as 2019 US 
dollars per disability-adjusted life year (DALY) averted. We estimated 
cost-effectiveness under different conditions of treatment completion and 
efficacy of 1HP versus 3HP, latent TB prevalence and rifapentine price.
RESULTS: Assuming equivalent clinical outcomes using 1HP and 3HP and a 
rifapentine price of $0.21 per 150 mg, 1HP would cost an additional $4.66 per 
patient treated. Assuming equivalent efficacy but 20% higher completion with 1HP 
versus 3HP, 1HP would cost $1,221 per DALY averted relative to 3HP. This could 
be reduced to $18 per DALY averted if 1HP had 5% greater efficacy than 3HP and 
the price of rifapentine were 50% lower. At a rifapentine price of $0.06 per 
150 mg, 1HP would become cost-neutral relative to 3HP.
CONCLUSIONS: 1HP has the potential to be cost-effective under many realistic 
circumstances. Cost-effectiveness depends on rifapentine price, relative 
completion and efficacy, prevalence of latent TB and local willingness-to-pay.

© 2020 The Authors. Journal of the International AIDS Society published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of the International AIDS Society.

DOI: 10.1002/jia2.25623
PMCID: PMC7569168
PMID: 33073520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2021 Oct;21(5):1081-1090. doi: 
10.1080/14737167.2021.1838899. Epub 2020 Nov 6.

Cost-utility model of brivaracetam in the adjunctive treatment of patients with 
epilepsy in Spain.

Barrachina-Martinez I(1), Vivas-Consuelo D(1), Reyes-Santias F(2).

Author information:
(1)INECO, Universitat Politècnica De Valencia, Spain.
(2)Departamento De Organización De Empresas Y Marketing, Universidad De Vigo, 
Facultad De Ciencias Empresarias E Turismo, Ourense, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: This study aims to assess the cost utility of Brivaracetam compared 
with the third-generation anti-epileptic drugs used as standard care.
METHODS: A cost utility analysis of Brivaracetam was carried out with other 
third-generation comparators. The treatment pathway of a hypothetical cohort 
over a period of 2 years was simulated using the Markov model. Data for 
effectiveness and the QALYs of each health status for epilepsy, as well as for 
the disutilities of adverse events of treatments, were analyzed through a 
studies review. The cost of the anti-epileptics and the use of medical resources 
linked to the different health statuses were taken into consideration. A 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis was performed using a Monte Carlo simulation.
RESULTS: Brivaracetam was shown to be the dominant alternative, with Incremental 
Cost Utility Ratio (ICUR) values from -11,318 for Lacosamide to -128,482 for 
Zonisamide. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis validates these results. The 
ICUR sensitivity is greater for increases in the price of Brivaracetam than for 
decreases, and for Eslicarbizapine over the other adjunctives considered in the 
analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with Brivaracetam resulted in cost effective and 
incremental quality adjusted life years come at an acceptable cost.

DOI: 10.1080/14737167.2021.1838899
PMID: 33074031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. PLoS One. 2020 Oct 19;15(10):e0240687. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0240687. 
eCollection 2020.

Medical management of muscle weakness in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Rivera SR(1), Jhamb SK(2), Abdel-Hamid HZ(3), Acsadi G(4), Brandsema J(5), 
Ciafaloni E(6), Darras BT(7), Iannaccone ST(8), Konersman CG(9), Kuntz NL(10), 
McDonald CM(11), Parsons JA(12), Tesi Rocha C(13), Zaidman CM(14), Butterfield 
RJ(15), Connolly AM(16), Mathews KD(17).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Services, Optum Lifesciences Wolfeboro, Wolfeboro, New 
Hampshire, United States of America.
(2)Department of Clinical Services, Optum Global Solutions, Noida, Uttar 
Pradesh, India.
(3)Division of Child Neurology, Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States of America.
(4)Department of Neurology, Connecticut Children's Medical Center, Farmington, 
Connecticut, United States of America.
(5)Division of Neurology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Perelman School 
of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
United States of America.
(6)Department of Pediatric Neuromuscular Medicine, University of Rochester 
Medical Center, Rochester, New York, United States of America.
(7)Department of Neurology, Boston Children's Hospital and Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America.
(8)Department of Pediatrics, UT Southwestern, Dallas, Texas, United States of 
America.
(9)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, San Diego, 
California, United States of America.
(10)Department of Pediatrics, Ann & Robert H Lurie Children's Hospital, Chicago, 
Illinois, United States of America.
(11)Department of Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation, UC Davis Health, 
Sacramento, California, United States of America.
(12)Department of Pediatrics and Neurology, University of Colorado School of 
Medicine, Aurora, Colorado, United States of America.
(13)Department of Neurology, Stanford University, Palo Alto, California, United 
States of America.
(14)Department of Neurology, Divisions of Child Neurology and Neuromuscular, 
Washington, University in St. Louis School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, 
United States of America.
(15)Department of Neurology and Pediatrics, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, 
Utah, United States of America.
(16)Department of Neurology, Nationwide Children's Hospital, Columbus, Ohio, 
United States of America.
(17)Departments of Pediatrics, University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine, 
Iowa City, Iowa, United States of America.

INTRODUCTION: Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a childhood onset muscular 
dystrophy leading to shortened life expectancy. There are gaps in published DMD 
care guidelines regarding recently approved DMD medications and alternative 
steroid dosing regimens.
METHODS: A list of statements about use of currently available therapies for DMD 
in the United States was developed based on a systematic literature review and 
expert panel feedback. Panelists' responses were collected using a modified 
Delphi approach.
RESULTS: Among corticosteroid regimens, either deflazacort or prednisone weekend 
dosing was preferred when payer requirements do not dictate choice. Most 
patients with exon 51 skip-amenable mutations should be offered eteplirsen, 
before or with a corticosteroid.
DISCUSSION: The options available for medical management of the motor symptoms 
of DMD are expanding rapidly. The choice of medical therapies should balance 
expected benefit with side effects.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0240687
PMCID: PMC7571693
PMID: 33075081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: SRR and SKJ are currently employed by Optum. 
Sarepta funded this study. This does not alter our adherence to PLOS ONE 
policies on sharing data and materials.


344. Int J Infect Dis. 2021 Jan;102:118-122. doi: 10.1016/j.ijid.2020.10.038.
Epub  2020 Oct 16.

Africa's low COVID-19 mortality rate: A paradox?

Lawal Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Federal Medical Center Azare, Bauchi State, Nigeria. 
Electronic address: lawalyaqub2006@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: COVID-19 continues to spread worldwide, with high numbers of 
fatalities reported first in China, followed by even higher numbers in Italy, 
Spain, the UK, the USA, and other advanced countries. Most African countries, 
even with their less advanced healthcare systems, continue to experience lower 
COVID-19 mortality rates. This was the case as the pandemic reached its first 
peak, plateaued, and declined. It is currently rising again in some countries, 
though not as rapidly as before. This study aimed to determine the predictors of 
COVID-19 mortality rate. This may help explain why Africa's COVID-19 mortality 
rate is, ironically, lower than that of more advanced countries with better 
health systems. This will also assist various governments in balancing their 
COVID-19 restrictive and socioeconomic measures.
METHODOLOGY: This was an analytical review, which used pre-COVID-19 era 
population data and current COVID-19 mortality figures to determine predictors 
of COVID-19 mortality rates. Pearson's correlation was used to test the 
association between some population variables and COVID-19 mortality rates. 
Next, stepwise multiple regression analysis was used to determine significant 
predictors of COVID-19 mortality rates.
RESULTS: Significant positive predictors of COVID-19 mortality rate included 
pre-COVID-19 era '65-yr+ mortality %' (R2 = 0.574, B = 2.86, p < 0.001), 
population mean age (R2 = 0.570, B = 4.77, p = 0.001), and life expectancy 
(R2 = 0.524, B = 1.67, p = 0.008). Pre-COVID-19 era CVD death rate was a 
negative predictor of COVID-19 mortality rate (R2 = 0.524, B = -0.584, 
p = 0.012).
CONCLUSION: Africa's lower COVID-19 mortality rate is due to the lower 
population mean age, lower life expectancy, lower pre-COVID-19 era '65yr+ 
mortality rate', and smaller pool of people surviving and living with 
cardiovascular diseases.

Copyright © 2020 The Author. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijid.2020.10.038
PMCID: PMC7566670
PMID: 33075535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Nov;103(11):9681-9699. doi: 10.3168/jds.2020-18296.

MILK Symposium review: The importance of milk and dairy foods in the diets of 
infants, adolescents, pregnant women, adults, and the elderly.

Givens DI(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Food, Nutrition and Health, University of Reading, Reading RG6 
6AR, UK. Electronic address: d.i.givens@reading.ac.uk.

The ongoing increase in life expectancy is not always accompanied by an increase 
in healthy life span. There is increasing evidence that dietary exposure in 
early life can substantially affect chronic disease risk in later life. Milk and 
dairy foods are important suppliers of a range of key nutrients, with some being 
particularly important at certain life stages. It is now recognized that milk 
protein can stimulate insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), essential for 
longitudinal bone growth and bone mass acquisition in young children, thus 
reducing the risk of stunting. Low milk consumption during adolescence, 
particularly by girls, may contribute to suboptimal intake of calcium, 
magnesium, iodine, and other important nutrients. Given the generally low 
vitamin D status of European populations, this may have already affected bone 
development, and any resulting reduced bone strength may become a big issue when 
the populations are much older. Suboptimal iodine status of many young women has 
already been reported together with several observational studies showing an 
association between suboptimal iodine status during pregnancy and reduced 
cognitive development in the offspring. There is now good evidence that 
consumption of milk and dairy foods does not lead to an increased risk of 
cardiovascular diseases and type 2 diabetes. Indeed, some negative associations 
are seen, notably between yogurt consumption and type 2 diabetes, which should 
be researched with urgency. Greater emphasis should be placed on reducing 
malnutrition in the elderly and on dietary approaches to reduce their loss of 
muscle mass, muscle functionality, and bone strength. Whey protein has been 
shown to be particularly effective for reducing muscle loss; this needs to be 
developed to provide simple dietary regimens for the elderly to follow. There is 
an ongoing, often too simplistic debate about the relative value of animal 
versus plant food sources for protein in particular. It is important that 
judgments on the replacement of dairy products with those from plants also 
include the evidence on relative functionality, which is not expressed in simple 
nutrient content (e.g., hypotensive and muscle synthesis stimulation effects). 
Only by considering such functionality will a true comparison be achieved.

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2020-18296
PMID: 33076181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Cells. 2020 Oct 15;9(10):2305. doi: 10.3390/cells9102305.

Differences in Gating Dynamics of BK Channels in Cellular and Mitochondrial 
Membranes from Human Glioblastoma Cells Unraveled by Short- and Long-Range 
Correlations Analysis.

Wawrzkiewicz-Jałowiecka A(1), Trybek P(2), Borys P(1), Dworakowska B(3), Machura 
Ł(4), Bednarczyk P(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Chemistry and Technology of Polymers, Silesian 
University of Technology, 44-100 Gliwice, Poland.
(2)Faculty of Science and Technology, University of Silesia in Katowice, 41-500 
Chorzow, Poland.
(3)Institute of Biology, Department of Physics and Biophysics, Warsaw University 
of Life Sciences-SGGW, 02-787 Warszawa, Poland.
(4)Institute of Physics, Faculty of Science and Technology, University of 
Silesia in Katowice, 41-500 Chorzow, Poland.

The large-conductance voltage- and Ca2+-activated K+ channels (BK) are encoded 
in humans by the Kcnma1 gene. Nevertheless, BK channel isoforms in different 
locations can exhibit functional heterogeneity mainly due to the alternative 
splicing during the Kcnma1 gene transcription. Here, we would like to examine 
the existence of dynamic diversity of BK channels from the inner mitochondrial 
and cellular membrane from human glioblastoma (U-87 MG). Not only the standard 
characteristics of the spontaneous switching between the functional states of 
the channel is discussed, but we put a special emphasis on the presence and 
strength of correlations within the signal describing the single-channel 
activity. The considered short- and long-range memory effects are here analyzed 
as they can be interpreted in terms of the complexity of the switching mechanism 
between stable conformational states of the channel. We calculate the 
dependencies of mean dwell-times of (conducting/non-conducting) states on the 
duration of the previous state, Hurst exponents by the rescaled range R/S method 
and detrended fluctuation analysis (DFA), and use the multifractal extension of 
the DFA (MFDFA) for the series describing single-channel activity. The obtained 
results unraveled statistically significant diversity in gating machinery 
between the mitochondrial and cellular BK channels.

DOI: 10.3390/cells9102305
PMCID: PMC7602617
PMID: 33076484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


