third cause of cancer deaths and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) 
worldwide. The countries of the Middle East and North Africa are similar in many 
determinants of health, but there are significant differences in the incidence 
of gastric cancer in these countries. Therefore, the purpose of this study was 
to compare the burden of gastric cancer in MENA countries with appropriate 
policies to reduce the incidence and mortality of gastric cancer in the region.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: GBD database data were used to assess the gastric cancer 
indices in MENA countries consisted of 21 countries in the Middle East and North 
Africa in 1900 and 2017. Gastric cancer-related analysis using DALY counts, 
which is the sum of YLLs (total years lost due to premature death) and YLDs 
(years lost due to disability), and incidence rates, prevalence rates, death 
rates, and standardized age rates (ASR) were measured.
RESULTS: The incidence of gastric cancer has decreased in the world and the MENA 
region from 1990 to 2017, which is higher than the global average in MENA. But 
death rates in the region have decreased below the global average. The trend of 
changes in DALY count has increased from 1990 to 2017 in all countries in the 
region except Turkey. This increase is higher in men than in women and also in 
Iran. In these countries, the highest percentage of total DALY of gastric cancer 
is attributable to the risk factors for high sodium and cigarette consumption, 
in Turkey and the United Arab Emirates, respectively (from 1990 to 2017) Also, 
the largest decrease is in the UAE and Iraq, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Despite a decrease in the incidence of gastric cancer and, possibly, 
due to late diagnosis and poor health services, the attenuation of gastric 
cancer is high in MENA countries. Therefore, it is recommended to reduce the 
attenuation of screening programs before 50 years old for early detection in 
addition to prevention programs and to reduce smoking, especially in men.

© 2020. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12029-020-00533-6
PMID: 33051794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Lakartidningen. 2020 Oct 12;117:20014.

[Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension may be cured with surgery].

[Article in Swedish]

Kallonen J(1), Corbascio M(2), Bredin F(3), Rådegran G, Sartipy U(4).

Author information:
(1)doktorand, specialistläkare1, Thoraxkirurgi, Tema Hjärta och Kärl, Karolinska 
Universitetssjukhuset, Stockholm; Institutionen för molekylär medicin och 
kirurgi, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm.
(2)docent, överläkare, Thoraxkirurgi, Tema Hjärta och Kärl, Karolinska 
Universitetssjukhuset, Stockholm; Institutionen för molekylär medicin och 
kirurgi, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm.
(3)med dr, överläkare, Institutionen för molekylär medicin och kirurgi, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm; Thoraxanestesi, Funktion Perioperativ Medicin 
och Intensivvård, Karolinska Universitetssjukhuset, Stockholm.
(4)professor, överläkare, Thoraxkirurgi, Tema Hjärta och Kärl, Karolinska 
Universitetssjukhuset, Stockholm; Institutionen för molekylär medicin och 
kirurgi, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm.

Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension is a subtype of pulmonary 
hypertension that affects 0,5-4% of patients who have had a pulmonary embolism. 
Emboli in the pulmonary arteries lead to fibrosis, obstruction and remodeling of 
the pulmonary arteries which causes increased pulmonary arterial blood pressure 
and increased pulmonary vascular resistance. Cardiac ultrasound is used as 
initial screening in order to identify high pulmonary artery pressures and right 
heart dysfunction. Lung scintigraphy, computed tomography, and pulmonary 
angiography are used to verify and describe disease severity. Surgical treatment 
entails circulatory arrest with endarterectomy starting proximal in the 
pulmonary arteries and continuing distally throughout the pulmonary arterial 
tree. Removal of obstruction leads to decreased pulmonary artery pressure and 
pulmonary vascular resistance, resulting in improved quality of life and near 
normal life expectancy.

PMID: 33051862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. J Viral Hepat. 2021 Feb;28(2):268-278. doi: 10.1111/jvh.13422. Epub 2020 Nov
4.

Cost-effectiveness of screening and treatment using direct-acting antivirals for 
chronic Hepatitis C virus in a primary care setting in Karachi, Pakistan.

Mafirakureva N(1), Lim AG(1), Khalid GG(2), Aslam K(2), Campbell L(1), Zahid 
H(2), Van den Bergh R(3), Falq G(4), Fortas C(4), Wailly Y(3), Auat R(3), 
Donchuk D(3), Loarec A(4), Coast J(1), Vickerman P(1)(5), Walker JG(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Health Sciences, Bristol Medical School, University of Bristol, 
Bristol, UK.
(2)Operational Center Brussels, Médecins Sans Frontières, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(3)Operational Center Brussels, Médecins Sans Frontières, Brussels, Belgium.
(4)Epicentre, Paris, France.
(5)NIHR Health Protection Research Unit in Behavioural Science and Evaluation, 
University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.

Despite the availability of effective direct-acting antiviral (DAA) treatments 
for Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, many people remain undiagnosed and 
untreated. We assessed the cost-effectiveness of a Médecins Sans Frontières 
(MSF) HCV screening and treatment programme within a primary health clinic in 
Karachi, Pakistan. A health state transition Markov model was developed to 
estimate the cost-effectiveness of the MSF programme. Programme cost and outcome 
data were analysed retrospectively. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) was calculated in terms of incremental cost (2016 US$) per 
disability-adjusted life year (DALY) averted from the provider's perspective 
over a lifetime horizon. The robustness of the model was evaluated using 
deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses (PSA). The ICER for 
implementing testing and treatment compared to no programme was US$450/DALY 
averted, with 100% of PSA runs falling below the per capita Gross Domestic 
Product threshold for cost-effective interventions for Pakistan (US$1,422). The 
ICER increased to US$532/DALY averted assuming national HCV seroprevalence (5.5% 
versus 33% observed in the intervention). If the cost of liver disease care was 
included (adapted from resource use data from Cambodia which has similar GDP to 
Pakistan), the ICER dropped to US$148/DALY, while it became cost-saving if a 
recently negotiated reduced drug cost of $75/treatment course was assumed 
(versus $282 in base-case) in addition to cost of liver disease care. In 
conclusion, screening and DAA treatment for HCV infection are expected to be 
highly cost-effective in Pakistan, supporting the expansion of similar screening 
and treatment programmes across Pakistan.

© 2020 The Authors. Journal of Viral Hepatitis published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jvh.13422
PMCID: PMC7821258
PMID: 33051950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: PV has received unrestricted research grants 
from Gilead unrelated to this study and honoraria from Gilead and Abbvie. JGW 
has received a research grant from Gilead unrelated to this study. GGK, KA, YW, 
HZ, RVB, GF, RA, DD, CF and AL were employed by MSF and/or by Epicentre, an 
association created by MSF in 1986 to provide epidemiological expertise to 
underpin MSF operations. They participated in planning the study, carrying out 
the research and writing the report. The other authors declared no conflicts of 
interest.


279. Geriatr Psychol Neuropsychiatr Vieil. 2020 Dec 1;18(4):359-370. doi: 
10.1684/pnv.2020.0886.

[Towards a personalized support necessary but complex to implement. The exemple 
of oncogeriatric care].

[Article in French]

Suissa V(1), Guérin S(2), Warusfel A(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de psychopathologie & neuropsychologie (EA2027), Université Paris 
VIII ; Agence des médecines complémentaires et alternatives (A-MCA), France.
(2)Inseec Business School, MSc « Directeur des établissements de santé », Inseec 
Paris, France.
(3)Accueil Cancer de la Ville de Paris (ACVP), Paris, France.

The considerable developments in the field of oncology have led to increased 
life expectancy and are contributing to conceptual changes in the care and 
management of patients. As such, the introduction of supportive care represents 
the archetype of a new "person-centred" approach and its characteristic needs. 
While the chronicity of the disease reflects advances in treatment, it also 
raises questions about a particularly long, cumbersome and painful treatment 
process for an aging and vulnerable population. In this perspective, the 
emergence of oncogeriatrics reflects the desire to personalize support and to 
take greater account of the specific needs of the elderly population. However, 
oncogeriatrics, a relatively new discipline, remains unstructured in the field. 
The dynamics of humanizing care inevitably come up against complex clinical 
situations, requiring reflection on its interest and limitations in its 
application. Thus, the purpose of this article is to propose an inventory of 
oncogeriatric care by raising a complex articulation between "theory of care" 
and "its implementation in the field".

DOI: 10.1684/pnv.2020.0886
PMID: 33052106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. PLoS One. 2020 Oct 14;15(10):e0239997. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0239997. 
eCollection 2020.

The cost-effectiveness of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy for the treatment of 
chronic, treatment-resistant PTSD.

Marseille E(1)(2), Kahn JG(2), Yazar-Klosinski B(3), Doblin R(3).

Author information:
(1)Health Strategies International, Oakland, California, United States of 
America.
(2)University of California, San Francisco, California, United States of 
America.
(3)Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies (MAPS), Santa Cruz, 
California, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Chronic posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a disabling 
condition that generates considerable morbidity, mortality, and both medical and 
indirect social costs. Treatment options are limited. A novel therapy using 
3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) has shown efficacy in six phase 2 
trials. Its cost-effectiveness is unknown.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: To assess the cost-effectiveness of MDMA-assisted 
psychotherapy (MAP) from the health care payer's perspective, we constructed a 
decision-analytic Markov model to portray the costs and health benefits of 
treating patients with chronic, severe, or extreme, treatment-resistant PTSD 
with MAP. In six double-blind phase 2 trials, MAP consisted of a mean of 2.5 
90-minute trauma-focused psychotherapy sessions before two 8-hour sessions with 
MDMA (mean dose of 125 mg), followed by a mean of 3.5 integration sessions for 
each active session. The control group received an inactive placebo or 25-40 mg. 
of MDMA, and otherwise followed the same regimen. Our model calculates net 
medical costs, mortality, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios. Efficacy was based on the pooled results of six 
randomized controlled phase 2 trials with 105 subjects; and a four-year 
follow-up of 19 subjects. Other inputs were based on published literature and on 
assumptions when data were unavailable. We modeled results over a 30-year 
analytic horizon and conducted extensive sensitivity analyses. Our model 
calculates expected medical costs, mortality, quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. Future costs and QALYs were 
discounted at 3% per year. For 1,000 individuals, MAP generates discounted net 
savings of $103.2 million over 30 years while accruing 5,553 discounted QALYs, 
compared to continued standard of care. MAP breaks even on cost at 3.1 years 
while delivering 918 QALYs. Making the conservative assumption that benefits 
cease after one year, MAP would accrue net costs of $7.6 million while 
generating 288 QALYS, or $26,427 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: MAP provided to patients with severe or extreme, chronic PTSD 
appears to be cost-saving while delivering substantial clinical benefit. 
Third-party payers are likely to save money within three years by covering this 
form of therapy.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0239997
PMCID: PMC7556534
PMID: 33052965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


281. N Engl J Med. 2020 Oct 15;383(16):1535-1543. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa2002449.

Life Expectancy after Bariatric Surgery in the Swedish Obese Subjects Study.

Carlsson LMS(1), Sjöholm K(1), Jacobson P(1), Andersson-Assarsson JC(1), 
Svensson PA(1), Taube M(1), Carlsson B(1), Peltonen M(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Institutes of Medicine (L.M.S.C., K.S., P.J., J.C.A.-A., P.-A.S., 
M.T., B.C.) and Health and Care Sciences (P.-A.S.), Sahlgrenska Academy at the 
University of Gothenburg, and Early Cardiovascular, Renal, and Metabolism 
(CVRM), Biopharmaceuticals Research and Development, AstraZeneca (B.C.), 
Gothenburg, and the Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, 
Karolinska Institutet, Solna (M.P.) - both in Sweden; and the Public Health 
Promotion Unit, National Institute for Health and Welfare, Helsinki (M.P.).

Comment in
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2021 Jan;17(1):4-5.
    N Engl J Med. 2021 Jan 7;384(1):88.
    N Engl J Med. 2021 Jan 7;384(1):88.

BACKGROUND: Obesity shortens life expectancy. Bariatric surgery is known to 
reduce the long-term relative risk of death, but its effect on life expectancy 
is unclear.
METHODS: We used the Gompertz proportional hazards regression model to compare 
mortality and life expectancy among patients treated with either bariatric 
surgery (surgery group) or usual obesity care (control group) in the 
prospective, controlled Swedish Obese Subjects (SOS) study and participants in 
the SOS reference study (reference cohort), a random sample from the general 
population.
RESULTS: In total, 2007 and 2040 patients were included in the surgery group and 
the control group, respectively, and 1135 participants were included in the 
reference cohort. At the time of the analysis (December 31, 2018), the median 
duration of follow-up for mortality was 24 years (interquartile range, 22 to 27) 
in the surgery group and 22 years (interquartile range, 21 to 27) in the control 
group; data on mortality were available for 99.9% of patients in the study. In 
the SOS reference cohort, the median duration of follow-up was 20 years 
(interquartile range, 19 to 21), and data on mortality were available for 100% 
of participants. In total, 457 patients (22.8%) in the surgery group and 539 
patients (26.4%) in the control group died (hazard ratio, 0.77; 95% confidence 
interval [CI], 0.68 to 0.87; P<0.001). The corresponding hazard ratio was 0.70 
(95% CI, 0.57 to 0.85) for death from cardiovascular disease and 0.77 (95% CI, 
0.61 to 0.96) for death from cancer. The adjusted median life expectancy in the 
surgery group was 3.0 years (95% CI, 1.8 to 4.2) longer than in the control 
group but 5.5 years shorter than in the general population. The 90-day 
postoperative mortality was 0.2%, and 2.9% of the patients in the surgery group 
underwent repeat surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with obesity, bariatric surgery was associated with 
longer life expectancy than usual obesity care. Mortality remained higher in 
both groups than in the general population. (Funded by the Swedish Research 
Council and others; SOS ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01479452.).

Copyright © 2020 Massachusetts Medical Society.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa2002449
PMCID: PMC7580786
PMID: 33053284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Foods. 2020 Oct 12;9(10):1440. doi: 10.3390/foods9101440.

Use of Alginates as Food Packaging Materials.

Kontominas MG(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Food Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, University of 
Ioannina, 45110 Ioannina, Greece.

Packaging mainly functions by protecting and preserving its contents. In the 
case of food packaging, the package protects the contained food product from (i) 
physical/mechanical damage; (ii) physico-chemical changes due to the effect of 
light, oxygen, moisture and odors; and (iii) biological changes due to the 
presence of microorganisms and pests; all the above parameters result in the 
reduction in product quality and safety. Due to the negative impact of synthetic 
packaging materials on the environment, research organizations as well as the 
food industry are currently exploring the possibility of using biodegradable and 
renewable materials deriving from natural sources. Such biopolymers include: 
proteins (whey proteins, wheat, corn and soy proteins, gelatin), lipid 
derivatives (waxes, acetylated triglycerides) and carbohydrates (starch, 
cellulose and its derivatives, carrageenan, pectin, chitosan, alginates) used in 
food packaging applications. Alginates are natural hydrophilic polysaccharide 
biopolymers mainly extracted from marine brown algae. In the form of films or 
coatings, they exhibit: good film-forming properties, low permeability to O2 and 
vapors, flexibility, water solubility and gloss while being tasteless and 
odorless. When combined with additives such as organic acids, essential oils, 
plant extracts, bacteriocins and nanomaterials, they contribute to the retention 
of moisture, reduction in shrinkage, retardation of oxidation, inhibition of 
color and texture degradation, reduction in microbial load, enhancement of 
sensory acceptability and minimization of cooking losses. Alginates were 
initially used as a coating for perishable fresh fruits and vegetables to 
control respiration rate, but can be applied to a wide range of foods, such as 
meat, poultry, seafood and cheese products, resulting in the extension of 
product shelf life. When used as part of the principle of active, intelligent 
and green packaging technologies, alginates can work synergistically to yield a 
multi-function food packaging system comprising the ultimate goal of food 
packaging technology.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9101440
PMCID: PMC7599891
PMID: 33053627

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


283. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Oct 12;21(20):7496. doi: 10.3390/ijms21207496.

Toward Drug-Like Multispecific Antibodies by Design.

Sawant MS(1)(2), Streu CN(1)(2)(3), Wu L(2)(4), Tessier PM(1)(2)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 
48109, USA.
(2)Biointerfaces Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Albion College, Albion, MI 49224, USA.
(4)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 
48109, USA.
(5)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 
48109, USA.

The success of antibody therapeutics is strongly influenced by their 
multifunctional nature that couples antigen recognition mediated by their 
variable regions with effector functions and half-life extension mediated by a 
subset of their constant regions. Nevertheless, the monospecific IgG format is 
not optimal for many therapeutic applications, and this has led to the design of 
a vast number of unique multispecific antibody formats that enable targeting of 
multiple antigens or multiple epitopes on the same antigen. Despite the 
diversity of these formats, a common challenge in generating multispecific 
antibodies is that they display suboptimal physical and chemical properties 
relative to conventional IgGs and are more difficult to develop into 
therapeutics. Here we review advances in the design and engineering of 
multispecific antibodies with drug-like properties, including favorable 
stability, solubility, viscosity, specificity and pharmacokinetic properties. We 
also highlight emerging experimental and computational methods for improving the 
next generation of multispecific antibodies, as well as their constituent 
antibody fragments, with natural IgG-like properties. Finally, we identify 
several outstanding challenges that need to be addressed to increase the success 
of multispecific antibodies in the clinic.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21207496
PMCID: PMC7589779
PMID: 33053650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


284. Foods. 2020 Oct 12;9(10):1446. doi: 10.3390/foods9101446.

Evolution of VOC and Sensory Characteristics of Stracciatella Cheese as Affected 
by Different Preservatives.

Natrella G(1), Difonzo G(1), Calasso M(1), Costantino G(1), Caponio F(1), Faccia 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Soil, Plant and Food Sciences, University of Bari, Via Amendola 
165/A, 70126 Bari, Italy.

Undesired volatile organic compounds (VOCs) can negatively affect the flavor of 
fresh food products; especially those characterized by a mild and delicate 
aroma. Finding connections between chemical and sensory analyses is a useful way 
to better understand the arising of off-flavors. A study was conducted on 
stracciatella; a traditional Italian cream cheese that is emerging on 
international markets. Samples were prepared by adding two different 
preservatives (alone or combined): sorbic acid and an olive leaf extract. Their 
influence on flavor preservation during refrigerated storage was investigated by 
chemical, microbiological and sensory analyses. A strong change of the VOC 
profile was ascertained after 8 days in the control cheese and in the sample 
added with leaf extract alone. The samples containing sorbic acid, alone or in 
combination with leaf extract, gave the best chemical and sensory results, 
demonstrating a significant shelf-life extension. In particular, these samples 
had lower concentrations of undesired metabolites, such as organic acids and 
volatiles responsible for off-flavor, and received better scores for odor and 
taste. Ex and Ex-So samples had significantly higher antioxidant activity than 
Ctr and So throughout the entire storage period, and the color parameter shows 
no differences among samples taken on the same day. The use of the olive leaf 
extract, at the concentration tested, seemed to be interesting only in the 
presence of sorbic acid due to possible synergic effect that mainly acted 
against Enterobacteriaceae.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9101446
PMCID: PMC7601598
PMID: 33053809

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


285. Clin Mol Hepatol. 2020 Oct;26(4):652-661. doi: 10.3350/cmh.2020.0160. Epub
2020  Oct 1.

Global and regional impacts of alcohol use on public health: Emphasis on alcohol 
policies.

Park SH(1), Kim DJ(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Inje University Haeundae Paik-Hospital, Inje 
University College of Medicine, Busan, Korea.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Hallym University College of Medicine, 
Chuncheon, Korea.
(3)Institute for Liver and Digestive Diseases, Hallym University, Chuncheon, 
Korea.

Alcohol is a well-known risk factor for premature morbidity and mortality. The 
per capita alcohol consumption of the world's population rose from 5.5 L in 2005 
to 6.4 L in 2010 and was still at the level of 6.4 L in 2016. 
Alcohol-attributable deaths and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) declined 
from 2000 to 2016 by 17.9% and 14.5%, respectively. However, these gains 
observed in the alcohol-attributable burden have proportionally not kept pace 
with the total health gains during the same period. In 2016, 3.0 million deaths 
worldwide and 132 million DALYs were attributable to alcohol, responsible for 
5.3% of all deaths and 5.0% of all DALYs. These burdens are the highest in the 
regions of Eastern Europe and sub-Saharan Africa. The alcohol-attributable 
burden is particularly heavy among young adults, accounting for 7.2% of all 
premature mortalities. Among the disease categories to which alcohol is related, 
injuries, digestive diseases, and cardiovascular diseases are the leading causes 
of the alcohol-attributable burden. To reduce the harmful use of alcohol in a 
country, the 'whole of government' and 'whole of society' approaches are 
required with the implementation of evidence-based alcohol control policies, the 
pursuit of public health priorities, and the adoption of appropriate policies 
over a long period of time. In this review, we summarize previous efforts to 
investigate the alcohol-attributable disease burden and the best ways to protect 
against harmful use of alcohol and promote health.

DOI: 10.3350/cmh.2020.0160
PMCID: PMC7641561
PMID: 33053937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest The authors have no 
conflicts to disclose.


286. Facial Plast Surg Aesthet Med. 2021 Sep;23(5):350-356. doi: 
10.1089/fpsam.2020.0192. Epub 2020 Oct 15.

The Health Burden of Transfeminine Facial Gender Dysphoria: An Analysis of 
Public Perception.

Nuyen B(1), Kandathil C(1), McDonald D(2), Chou DW(3), Shih C(3), Most SP(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Stanford, California, USA.
(2)Medical Scientist Training Program, San Diego School of Medicine, University 
of California, La Jolla, California, USA.
(3)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, Kaiser Permanente Northern California 
Medical Center, Oakland, California, USA.

Objectives/Hypothesis: The face is a major communicator of gender identity. 
Transfeminine individuals report debilitating quality-of-life deficits as a 
result of their gender dysphoria, which may be addressed with feminizing 
therapies. We aimed to quantify the potential impact of facial gender dysphoria 
experienced by transfeminine patients, as well as associated treatments, 
including feminizing facial gender surgery, through validated health state 
utility measures. Methods: A transfeminine patient volunteer who underwent head 
and neck gender-affirming treatments was consented for research use of 
perioperative photographs. These media aided in the description of two 
transfeminine health states, pre- and postfacial feminization facial gender 
dysphoria. Monocular blindness and binocular blindness were two health state 
controls. General population adults rated these four health states through 
visual analog scale (VAS), standard gamble (SG), and time trade-off (TTO), which 
were used to calculate the quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Results: Survey 
respondents totaled 206 with a mean (standard deviation [SD]) age of 35.8 (11.9) 
years. Mean (SD) health utility measures included 0.75 (0.22) QALYs for VAS, 
0.82 (0.19) QALYS for SG, 0.79 (0.21) QALYS for TTO for pretreatment facial 
gender dysphoria, and 0.81 (0.21), 0.86 (0.19), 0.83 (0.20) QALYS for 
postgender-affirming treatments for facial gender dysphoria. The health utility 
scores for the postgender-affirming treatments for facial gender dysphoria 
(+0.06 VAS, p = 0.005) were significantly improved compared with the 
pretreatment state. Conclusions: To our knowledge, this study is the first to 
examine how the general population perceives the health burden of facial gender 
dysphoria experienced by transfeminine patients. Facial gender dysphoria is 
perceived to have a negative impact on health states, not dissimilar to 
monocular blindness in our sample. Feminizing facial gender surgery appears to 
significantly increase health utility measures.

DOI: 10.1089/fpsam.2020.0192
PMID: 33054404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. J Prim Care Community Health. 2020 Jan-Dec;11:2150132720959234. doi: 
10.1177/2150132720959234.

Examining Older Adults' Attitudes and Perceptions of Cancer Screening and 
Overscreening: A Qualitative Study.

Roy S(1), Moss JL(1), Rodriguez-Colon SM(1), Shen C(1), Cooper JD(1), Lennon 
RP(1), Lengerich EJ(1), Adelman A(1), Curry W(1), Ruffin MT 4th(1).

Author information:
(1)Penn State College of Medicine, Hershey, PA, USA.

INTRODUCTION/OBJECTIVES: Screening guidelines for breast, cervical, and 
colorectal cancer (CRC) are less clear for older adults due to the potential 
harms that may result from screening. Understanding older adults' attitudes and 
perceptions, especially racial/ethnic minority and underserved adults, of cancer 
screening can help health care providers determine how best to communicate with 
older adults about cancer screening and screening cessation. The objective of 
this study was to determine how older adults primarily from minority/underserved 
backgrounds perceive cancer screening and overscreening.
METHODS: Four focus groups (n = 39) were conducted with adults (>=65 years of 
age) in 3 community settings in south-central Pennsylvania. Two focus groups 
were conducted in Spanish and translated to English upon transcription. Focus 
group data was managed and analyzed using QSR NVivo 12. Inductive thematic 
analysis was used to analyze the data where themes emerged following the coding 
process.
RESULTS: The focus group participants had an average age of 74 years and were 
primarily female (74%) and Hispanic (69%), with 69% reporting having less than a 
high school degree. Four key themes were identified from the focus groups: (1) 
importance of tailored and targeted education/information; (2) impact of 
physician/patient communication; (3) impact of barriers and facilitators to 
screening on cancer screening cessation; and (4) awareness of importance of 
screening. Participants were more likely to be agreeable to screening cessation 
if they received specific information regarding their health status and previous 
medical history from their physician as to why screening should be stopped and 
told by their physician that the screening decision is up to them.
CONCLUSIONS: Older adults prefer individualized information from their physician 
in order to justify screening cessation but are against incorporating life 
expectancy into the discussion. Future research should focus on developing 
interventions to test the effectiveness of culturally tailored screening 
cessation messages for older adults.

DOI: 10.1177/2150132720959234
PMCID: PMC7576932
PMID: 33054558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


288. BMC Palliat Care. 2020 Oct 14;19(1):158. doi: 10.1186/s12904-020-00667-1.

Patients' experiences of eHealth in palliative care: an integrative review.

Widberg C(1), Wiklund B(1), Klarare A(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Stockholm Sjukhem Foundation, Department of Palliative Care, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(2)Department of Health Care Sciences, Palliative Care Research Centre, Ersta 
Sköndal Bräcke University College, Box 11189, SE-100 61, Stockholm, Sweden. 
anna.klarare@kbh.uu.se.
(3)Department of Women's and Children's Health, Clinical Psychology in 
Healthcare, Uppsala university, Uppsala, Sweden. anna.klarare@kbh.uu.se.

BACKGROUND: With a growing world population, a longer life expectancy, and more 
deaths due to chronic diseases, the need for palliative care is increasing. 
Palliative care aims to alleviate suffering and to promote well-being for 
patients with progressive, incurable disease or injury. E-Health entails using 
of information and communication technology for healthcare provision. It is 
unclear to how patients experience use of eHealth technology within palliative 
care.
METHODS: The aim of this study was to describe patients' experiences of eHealth 
in palliative care. A systematic integrative review was performed using six 
databases: Cinahl Complete; MEDLINE; PubMed; Psychology and Behavioral Sciences 
Collection; Nursing and Allied Health; and PsycINFO. Twelve studies met the 
inclusion criteria of adult patients in palliative care, English language, 
published 2014-2019: comprising 397 patients. Six studies were from European 
countries, four from North America, one from South America and one from Oceania. 
Seven were feasibility or pilot studies.
RESULTS: The findings are synthesized in the main theme: E-health applications - 
promoting communication on patients' and families' terms, and three sub- themes: 
usability and feasibility of eHealth applications; symptom control and 
individualized care; and use of eHealth applications increased sense of security 
and patient safety. Patients' experiences were that eHealth promoted 
individualized care, sense of security, better symptom management and 
participation in care. Communication was facilitated by the inherent flexibility 
provided by technology.
CONCLUSIONS: E-Health applications seem promising in promoting equal, 
individualized care, and may be a tool to endorse accessibility and patient 
participation in palliative care settings. Indications are that eHealth 
communication resulted in patients and families receiving more information, 
which contributed to experiences of patient safety and feelings of security. At 
organizational and societal levels, eHealth may contribute to sustainable 
development and more efficient use of resources.

DOI: 10.1186/s12904-020-00667-1
PMCID: PMC7560207
PMID: 33054746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


289. BJPsych Open. 2020 Oct 15;6(6):e121. doi: 10.1192/bjo.2020.106.

Mortality and suicide in schizophrenia: 21-year follow-up in rural China.

Ran MS(1), Xiao Y(2), Fazel S(3), Lee Y(1), Luo W(4), Hu SH(5), Yang X(6), Liu 
B(7), Brink M(8), Chan SKW(9), Chen EY(9), Chan CL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Work and Social Administration, University of Hong Kong, 
China.
(2)School of Social Work, Indiana University-Bloomington and IUPUI, 
Indianapolis, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Warneford Hospital, University of Oxford, UK.
(4)Xinjin Second People's Hospital, Chengdu, China.
(5)Chengdu Mental Health Center, China.
(6)Guangyuan Mental Health Center, China.
(7)Jingzhou Mental Health Center, China.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, University of Rochester Medical Center, New York, 
USA.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, University of Hong Kong, China.

BACKGROUND: Little is known about the trend and predictors of 21-year mortality 
and suicide patterns in persons with schizophrenia.
AIMS: To explore the trend and predictors of 21-year mortality and suicide in 
persons with schizophrenia in rural China.
METHOD: This longitudinal follow-up study included 510 persons with 
schizophrenia who were identified in a mental health survey of individuals (≥15 
years old) in 1994 in six townships of Xinjin County, Chengdu, China, and 
followed up in three waves until 2015. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and Cox 
hazard regressions were conducted.
RESULTS: Of the 510 participants, 196 died (38.4% mortality) between 1994 and 
2015; 13.8% of the deaths (n = 27) were due to suicide. Life expectancy was 
lower for men than for women (50.6 v. 58.5 years). Males consistently showed 
higher rates of mortality and suicide than females. Older participants had 
higher mortality (hazard ratio HR = 1.03, 95% CI 1.01-1.05) but lower suicide 
rates (HR = 0.95, 95% CI 0.93-0.98) than their younger counterparts. Poor family 
attitudes were associated with all-cause mortality and death due to other 
causes; no previous hospital admission and a history of suicide attempts 
independently predicted death by suicide.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest there is a high mortality and suicide rate in 
persons with schizophrenia in rural China, with different predictive factors for 
mortality and suicide. It is important to develop culture-specific, 
demographically tailored and community-based mental healthcare and to strengthen 
family intervention to improve the long-term outcome of persons with 
schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1192/bjo.2020.106
PMCID: PMC7576648
PMID: 33054894

Conflict of interest statement: None.


290. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2020 Aug;69(10):1-12.

U.S. Decennial Life Tables for 2009-2011, Methodology of the United States Life 
Tables.

Arias E, Curtin SC, Tejada-Vera B.

Objectives-This report describes the methodology used in the preparation of the 
2009-2011 decennial life tables for the United States by race, Hispanic origin, 
and sex based on the age-specific death rates for the period 2009-2011, 
appearing in the report, "U.S. Decennial Life Tables for 2009-2011, United 
States Life Tables" (1). Methods-Data used to prepare these life tables include 
population data by age on the census date April 1, 2010; deaths occurring in the 
3-year period 2009-2011 classified by age at death; births for each of the years 
2007-2011; and Medicare data for ages 66-99 for the 3 years 2009-2011. The 
methods used differ from those applied to the 1999-2001 decennial life tables in 
the estimation of mortality for ages 66 and over. For the total, white, black, 
non-Hispanic white, and non-Hispanic black populations, the method developed for 
the U.S. annual life tables beginning with data year 2008 was used. It consists 
of the application of the Kannisto logistic model to smooth death rates in the 
age range 85-99 and predict death rates for ages 100-120 (2,3). For the Hispanic 
population, which is added to the decennial series for the first time with the 
2009-2011 set, the method developed for the U.S. annual life tables beginning 
with data year 2006 was used. This method consists of using the Brass relational 
logit model to estimate mortality for ages 80-120 (4).

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 33054922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2020 Aug;69(8):1-73.

U.S. Decennial Life Tables for 2009-2011, United States Life Tables.

Arias E, Miniño A, Curtin S, Tejada-Vera B.

Objectives-This report presents period life tables for the United States, based 
on age-specific death rates for the period 2009-2011. These tables are the most 
recent in a 110-year series of decennial life tables for the United States. 
Methods-This report presents complete life tables for the United States by race, 
Hispanic origin, and sex, based on age- specific death rates during 2009-2011. 
This is the first set of life tables by Hispanic origin presented in the U.S. 
decennial life table series. Data used to prepare these life tables include 
population estimates based on the 2010 decennial census; deaths occurring in the 
United States to U.S. residents in the 3 years 2009 through 2011; counts of U.S. 
resident births in the years 2007 through 2011; and population and death counts 
from the Medicare program for years 2009 through 2011. The methodology used to 
estimate life tables for the Hispanic population is based on the method first 
implemented with the 2006 annual U.S. life tables by Hispanic origin. The 
methodology used to estimate the life tables for all other groups is based on 
the method first implemented with the 2008 annual U.S. life tables. 
Results-During 2009-2011, life expectancy at birth was 78.60 years for the total 
U.S. population, representing an increase of 29.36 years from a life expectancy 
of 49.24 years in 1900. Between 1900 and 2010, life expectancy increased by 
42.88 years for black females (from 35.04 to 77.92), by 39.21 years for black 
males (from 32.54 to 71.75), by 30.15 years for white females (from 51.08 to 
81.23), and by 28.26 years for white males (from 48.23 to 76.49). During 
2009-2011, Hispanic females had the highest life expectancy at birth (84.05), 
followed by non-Hispanic white females (81.06), Hispanic males (78.83), 
non-Hispanic black females (77.62), non-Hispanic white males (76.30), and 
non-Hispanic black males (71.41).

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 33054929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Circ J. 2020 Oct 23;84(11):1903-1908. doi: 10.1253/circj.CJ-20-0594. Epub
2020  Oct 14.

Current Understanding of the Role of Frailty in Cardiovascular Disease.

Uchikado Y(1), Ikeda Y(1), Ohishi M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine and Hypertension, Graduate School of 
Medical and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima University.

The elderly population is increasing because of increasing life expectancy, and 
the prevalence of frailty increases with age. Frailty commonly coexists with 
cardiovascular diseases (CVDs), such as coronary artery disease (CAD), heart 
failure (HF), aortic stenosis (AS), and atrial fibrillation (AF). Frail patients 
who undergo revascularization for CAD have higher complication rates; those with 
HF have a high prevalence of poor outcomes, and those with AF are vulnerable to 
increased stroke incidence. Moreover, frailty and asymptomatic severe AS were 
independent factors for mortality. The presence of frailty can lead to poor 
clinical outcomes, and frailty has been identified as a risk factor for 
mortality. Thus, the identification of frail patients who are at higher risks of 
disability and adverse clinical outcomes is important. In this review, the 
relationship between frailty and CVD is appraised and optimal treatments for 
frail patients are discussed.

DOI: 10.1253/circj.CJ-20-0594
PMID: 33055460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Zootaxa. 2020 Aug 18;4834(1):zootaxa.4834.1.1. doi:
10.11646/zootaxa.4834.1.1.

Unusual opecoelids from Red Sea triggerfishes with special reference to 
characteristic concepts of the Opistholebetinae Fukui, 1929 (Digenea: 
Opecoelidae).

Karar YFM(1), Blend CK, Mohamadain HS, Khalifa RMA, Dronen NO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, Faculty of Sciences, New Valley University, Kharga, 
Egypt. Research Associate, Laboratory of Parasitology, Department of Ecology 
Conservation Biology, College of Agriculture Life Sciences, Texas AM University, 
College Station, Texas 77843-2258, USA.. yasser.karar@sci.svu.edu.eg.

Three digeneans belonging to the Opecoelidae are reported and described from 
triggerfishes (Tetraodontiformes: Balistidae) collected in the northern Red Sea 
off Egypt. Both Macvicaria longicirrata (Manter, 1963) Aken-Ova, Cribb Bray, 
2008 and Neopycnadena tendu (Bray Justine, 2007) n. comb. were recovered from 
the intestine of the titan triggerfish, Balistoides viridescens (Bloch 
Schneider)-each represents a new host record-and Gaevskajatrema balistes n. sp. 
was found parasitizing the lower intestine of the Picasso triggerfish, 
Rhinecanthus assasi (Forsskål). We continue to support synonymy of 
Gaevskajatrema ponticum (Koval, 1966) Machkevsky, 1990 with Gaevskajatrema 
perezi (Mathias, 1926) Gibson Bray, 1982, not as a differentiated species. We 
adopt the restricted posterior extension of the ceca and vitellarium to the 
testicular zone, without extension of either into the post-testicular space, as 
diagnostic in distinguishing Gaevskajatrema. Gaevskajatrema balistes n. sp. 
differs from G. perezi based on its substantially smaller body size with fewer 
eggs, a longer cirrus-pouch reaching ovarian level and it parasitizes a distinct 
host group from a structurally and ecologically different ecosystem. 
Neopycnadena n. gen. is erected for Pseudopycnadena tendu Bray Justine 2007 
based on its possessing a large broadly oval cirrus-pouch with a massive field 
of prostatic cells occupying the entire volume of the cirrus-pouch, a wide, 
cup-shaped and thick-walled ejaculatory duct, distinct dorsal position of the 
excretory pore, the bifurcal dextral position of the genital pore, its report 
from a distinct host group and distant locality and its phylogenetic uniqueness 
compared with Pseudopycnadena fischthali Saad-Fares Maillard 1986. Neopycnadena 
n. gen. is ecologically similar to opistholebetines in their life-cycles and 
morphology; however, phylogenetically separate from opistholebetines as well as 
from the Polypipapiliotrematinae Martin, Cutmore Cribb in Martin, Sasal, 
Cutmore, Ward, Aeby Cribb, 2018 and members of Clade [C] of Martin and 
colleagues, thus we conclude that Neopycnadena n. gen. is unique. 
Neopycnadeninae n. subfam. is proposed to accommodate Neopycnadena n. gen. We 
consider that the probable characterization of tetraodontiform specialist taxa 
(as indicated by the presence of a muscular post-oral ring) and the specificity 
of the Opistholebetinae Fukui, 1929 sensu stricto with a tetraodontiform host 
are no longer reliable characters differentiating Gaevskajatrema and Macvicaria 
Gibson Bray, 1982. The nature of the post-oral structure is discussed and it is 
adopted to be a diagnostic feature at the generic level among taxa of the 
Opistholebetinae sensu latu. It is concluded that the expanded concept of the 
Opistholebetinae is more supported than the restricted one, Birendralebes 
Srivastava Ghosh, 1972 remains incertae sedis within the Opecoelidae Ozaki, 1925 
rather than in the Opistholebetinae, and we provide a generic key to the 
Opistholebetinae.

DOI: 10.11646/zootaxa.4834.1.1
PMID: 33056129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Zootaxa. 2020 Sep 15;4852(2):zootaxa.4852.2.5. doi:
10.11646/zootaxa.4852.2.5.

A second species of Syrraphesina Raffray found adjacent to Wallace's Line<br 
/>(Coleoptera, Staphylinidae, Pselaphinae).

Yin ZW(1), HlavÁČ P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Systematic Entomology, College of Life Sciences, Shanghai 
Normal University, 100 Guilin Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai 200234, China.. 
pselaphinae@gmail.com.

The monospecific genus Syrraphesina Raffray, 1903 contains a single species 
distributed in eastern New Guinea. In this paper a second species from Lombok 
Island, S. agostii Yin Hlaváč, sp. nov., is described, figured, and compared to 
S. pliciventris Raffray, 1903. A revised diagnosis of Syrraphesina is provided. 
The distribution of Clavigerini through the islands of the world is briefly 
discussed.

DOI: 10.11646/zootaxa.4852.2.5
PMID: 33056425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. PLoS One. 2020 Oct 15;15(10):e0240551. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0240551. 
eCollection 2020.

Size, demography, ownership profiles, and identification rate of the owned dog 
population in central Italy.

Carvelli A(1), Scaramozzino P(1), Iacoponi F(1), Condoleo R(1), Della Marta 
U(2).

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology Unit, Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale del Lazio e della 
Toscana "M. Aleandri", Via Appia Nuova, Roma, Italy.
(2)Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale del Lazio e della Toscana "M. 
Aleandri", Via Appia Nuova, Roma, Italy.

The One Health paradigm recognizes that information on infectious diseases, 
zoonosis and related predictors in animal populations is essential. Pets live in 
close contact with humans and interact with wild animals, but the lack of 
reliable information on pet population size, demography and ownership profiles 
is a constant worldwide. Reliable data must be made available in order to 
address proper public health policies regarding the design of surveillance 
plans, the management of canine welfare and stray dog phenomenon, the control of 
dog behaviour-related problems, and the livestock/wildlife endangerment. Dog 
identification & registration (I&R) have become mandatory in most European 
countries in recent years, but the process is far from being widely 
accomplished, thus resulting in an underestimation of the real canine 
population. To date, data on the completeness of Dog Registries is very limited. 
A cross-sectional survey through 630 face-to-face questionnaires was performed 
with the aim of investigating the dog population size, demography, ownership 
profiles, and the I&R rate in central Italy. Logistic regression models 
investigated risk factors with the following outcome variables: dog presence 
into the Dog Registry, veterinary care frequency, and dog ownership. The present 
study identified that the dog population is higher than previously reported in 
Italy and in Europe, whilst lower compared to countries with a poor Human 
Development Index (a statistic composite index of life expectancy, education, 
and per capita income indicators used by United Nation). Almost half of the 
interviewed people (47%) owned at least one dog, totalling 315 dogs. The mean 
number of dogs per household was 0.7 and 1.5 per dog-owning household. The 
Bayesian model estimated 481,294 (95% CI: 470,860-491,978) dogs (90 dogs/km2; 
human:dog ratio 9.0, 95% CI: 8.8-9.2) suggesting that a high density of people 
does not limit the dog ownership. Dogs resulted predominant among pets. The 
majority of dogs were males, crossbred, acquires as a gift, lived in rural 
areas, outdoors and attended a veterinary visit 1-2 times per year. The 
percentage of neutered dogs were higher in females (55%) than in males (8%). 
Only 75.3% (95% CI: 73.6-76.9) of the dogs were correctly identified and 
registered. The Dog Registry completeness increased during the first decades 
after its establishment, but no improvement has been made afterwards. The dogs 
correctly identified and registered were more likely to be purebred, neutered, 
lived in urban areas and visited a veterinarian frequently. Several strategies 
are recommended to encourage I&R, including promoting responsible dog ownership, 
engaging private veterinarians and dog breeders, and establishing an effective 
control system. The present study identified also that the dog source and the 
kind of feeding were variables associated with the veterinary care frequency. 
Owning a dog was associated with living in rural areas and the presence of 
children. The present study reported the poor presence of reliable predictors 
for the dog ownership. This is the first study to provide an estimate of the 
canine population abundance, characteristics, and ownership profiles in a 
European large metropolitan area.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0240551
PMCID: PMC7561154
PMID: 33057370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


296. Pediatr Nephrol. 2021 Aug;36(8):2279-2291. doi: 10.1007/s00467-020-04790-2.
Epub  2020 Oct 15.

Malignancies after pediatric solid organ transplantation.

Robinson C(1)(2), Chanchlani R(3)(4)(5), Kitchlu A(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Paediatric Nephrology, Department of Paediatrics, The Hospital 
for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Division of Pediatric Nephrology, Department of Pediatrics, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence and Impact, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(5)ICES McMaster, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University Health Network, 
University of Toronto, 200 Elizabeth Street, 8 Eaton North, 8 N-842, Toronto, 
Ontario, M5G 2C4, Canada. abhijat.kitchlu@uhn.ca.

As life expectancy among pediatric solid organ transplant recipients (SOTRs) 
improves, the risk of comorbid conditions such as malignancy 
post-transplantation has also increased. SOTRs are at elevated risks of 
post-transplantation lymphoproliferative disorders (PTLDs), and skin and solid 
cancers. PTLDs typically occur early following transplantation, while skin and 
solid cancers frequently arise in young adulthood (25-40 years). By 30 years 
following transplantation, 26-41% of pediatric SOTRs have developed cancer. 
Different risk factors exist for PTLD, and skin and solid cancers, which are 
modified by cumulative immunosuppression, infections, transplanted organ, and 
the underlying disease process associated with initial organ failure (e.g., 
kidney failure). Optimal cancer treatment strategies depend on the specific 
cancer type, stage, and patient comorbidities. Immunosuppression reduction may 
be beneficial for certain cancers but must be considered against the risks of 
acute and chronic rejection and allograft loss. Lifestyle counseling regarding 
smoking avoidance and sun protection, as well as human papillomavirus 
vaccination, is an important aspect of cancer prevention. Currently, no cancer 
screening guidelines exist specifically for pediatric SOTRs. Adult population 
screening guidelines have not been validated in transplant populations. 
Therefore, an individualized approach should be taken to cancer screening for 
pediatric SOTRs, accounting for other cancer risk factors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00467-020-04790-2
PMID: 33057766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. J Asthma. 2022 Jan;59(1):189-199. doi: 10.1080/02770903.2020.1837158. Epub
2020  Nov 10.

Assessing the cost-effectiveness of mepolizumab as add-on therapy to standard of 
care for severe eosinophilic asthma in Singapore.

Tan LE(1), Tan WHG(1), Aziz MIA(1), Koh MS(2)(3), Tay TR(4), Pearce F(1), Ng 
K(1).

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Health, Agency for Care Effectiveness, Singapore, Singapore.
(2)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Singapore General 
Hospital, Singapore, Singapore.
(3)Office of Clinical, Academic and Faculty Affairs, Duke NUS Medical School, 
Singapore, Singapore.
(4)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Changi General 
Hospital, Singapore, Singapore.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of mepolizumab added to standard 
of care (SOC) compared with SOC alone among patients with severe uncontrolled 
eosinophilic asthma in the Singapore setting.
METHODS: A Markov model with three health states (asthma on mepolizumab and SOC, 
asthma on SOC alone, and death) was developed from a healthcare system 
perspective over a lifetime horizon. During each 4-week cycle, patients in the 
non-death health states could experience asthma exacerbations requiring oral 
corticosteroid burst, emergency department visit, or hospitalization. 
Asthma-related mortality following an exacerbation or all-cause mortality could 
also occur at each cycle. The model was populated using local costs while 
utilities were derived from international literature. Transition probabilities 
were obtained from a mixture of Singapore-specific and internationally published 
data.
RESULTS: The base-case analysis comparing mepolizumab plus SOC with SOC alone 
resulted in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of SGD335 486 (USD238 
195) per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Sensitivity analysis 
demonstrated that the ICER was most sensitive to the price of mepolizumab, 
followed by the proportion of exacerbations which required hospital intensive 
