PMID: 33160388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


614. Fertil Steril. 2020 Nov;114(5):927-933. doi:
10.1016/j.fertnstert.2020.09.160.

Data sharing: using blockchain and decentralized data technologies to unlock the 
potential of artificial intelligence: What can assisted reproduction learn from 
other areas of medicine?

Hickman CFL(1), Alshubbar H(2), Chambost J(3), Jacques C(3), Pena CA(3), 
Drakeley A(4), Freour T(5).

Author information:
(1)Apricity, Paris, France; Institute of Reproduction and Developmental Biology, 
Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom; TMRW Life Sciences, New York, 
New York.
(2)Apricity, Paris, France; Institute of Reproduction and Developmental Biology, 
Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom.
(3)Apricity, Paris, France.
(4)Hewitt Fertility Centre, Liverpool Women's Hospital, Liverpool, United 
Kingdom.
(5)Service de Médecine et Biologie de la Reproduction, CHU de Nantes, Nantes, 
France; Centre de Recherche en Transplantation et Immunologie, INSERM, 
Université de Nantes, Nantes, France.

The extension of blockchain use for nonfinancial domains has revealed 
opportunities to the health care sector that answer the need for efficient and 
effective data and information exchanges in a secure and transparent manner. 
Blockchain is relatively novel in health care and particularly for data 
analytics, although there are examples of improvements achieved. We provide a 
systematic review of blockchain uses within the health care industry, with a 
particular focus on the in vitro fertilization (IVF) field. Blockchain 
technology in the fertility sector, including data sharing collaborations 
compliant with ethical data handling within confines of international law, 
allows for large-scale prospective cohort studies to proceed at an international 
scale. Other opportunities include gamete donation and matching, consent 
sharing, and shared resources between different clinics.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2020.09.160
PMID: 33160515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Vaccine. 2020 Dec 3;38(51):8206-8215. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2020.10.067.
Epub  2020 Nov 5.

Assessing the cost-utility of preferentially administering Heplisav-B vaccine to 
certain populations.

Rosenthal EM(1), Hall EW(2), Rosenberg ES(3), Harris A(4), Nelson NP(4), 
Schillie S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
University at Albany, Rensselaer, NY, United States. Electronic address: 
emrosenthal@albany.edu.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory 
University, Atlanta, GA, United States.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
University at Albany, Rensselaer, NY, United States.
(4)Division of Viral Hepatitis, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, GA, United States.

Erratum in
    Vaccine. 2021 Aug 23;39(36):5231.

Vaccination is the primary strategy to prevent hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection 
in the United States. Prior to 2017, most standard hepatitis B vaccine schedules 
required 3 doses over 6 months. Heplisav-B, approved in 2017, is administered in 
2 doses over a 1 month time period but has a higher per-dose cost ($115.75 per 
dose compared to $57.25 per Engerix-B dose, costs as of June 1, 2019). We aimed 
to assess the cost-utility of providing the two-dose Heplisav-B vaccine compared 
to a three-dose Engerix-B vaccine among adult populations currently recommended 
for vaccination against hepatitis B. We used a decision-tree model with 
microsimulation and a Markov disease progression process to assess the 
cost-utility separately for the following populations: adults with diabetes, 
obesity, chronic kidney disease, HIV; non-responders to previous hepatitis B 
vaccination; older adults; and persons who inject drugs (PWID). We modeled 
epidemiologic outcomes (incident HBV infections, sequelae and related deaths), 
costs (2019 USD) and benefits (quality-adjusted life years, QALYs) and compared 
them across strategies. Sensitivity analyses assessed the cost-utility at 
varying estimates of Heplisav-B efficacy. In the base case scenario for each 
population, vaccination with Heplisav-B resulted in fewer HBV infections 
(37.5-59.8% averted), sequelae, and HBV-related deaths (36.3-71.4% averted). 
Heplisav-B resulted in decreased costs and increased benefits compared to 
Engerix-B for all populations except non-responders. Incremental costs from the 
baseline strategy ranged from $4746.78 saved (PWID) to $14.15 added cost 
(non-responders). Incremental benefits per person ranged from 0.00005 QALYs 
(older adults) to 0.7 QALYs (PWID). For persons with HIV and PWID, Heplisav-B 
resulted in lower costs and increased benefits in all scenarios in which 
Heplisav-B series efficacy was at least 80%. Vaccination using Heplisav-B is a 
cost-saving strategy compared to Engerix-B for adults with diabetes, chronic 
kidney disease, obesity, and HIV; older adults; and PWID.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2020.10.067
PMID: 33160756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


616. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2021 Jan;32(1):2-12.e1. doi:
10.1016/j.jvir.2020.09.022.  Epub 2020 Nov 5.

Comparison of Drug-Eluting Embolics versus Conventional Transarterial 
Chemoembolization for the Treatment of Patients with Unresectable Hepatocellular 
Carcinoma: A Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.

Wu X(1), Chapiro J(1), Malhotra A(1), Kothary N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, Yale School of Medicine, New 
Haven, CT.
(2)Department of Radiology, Stanford University Medical Center, 300 Pasteur 
Drive, Stanford, CA 94305. Electronic address: nkothary@stanfordhealthcare.org.

Comment in
    J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2021 Jan;32(1):14-15.

PURPOSE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of using doxorubicin-loaded 
drug-eluting embolic (DEE) transarterial chemoembolization versus that of using 
conventional transarterial chemoembolization for patients with unresectable 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decision-analysis model was constructed over the 
lifespan of a payer's perspective. The model simulated the clinical course, 
including periprocedural complications, additional transarterial 
chemoembolization or other treatments (ablation, radioembolization, or systemic 
treatment), palliative care, and death, of patients with unresectable HCC. All 
clinical parameters were derived from the literature. Base case calculations, 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses, and multiple two-way sensitivity analyses 
were performed.
RESULTS: In the base case calculations for patients with a median age of 67 
years (range for conventional transarterial chemoembolization: 28-88 years, 
range for DEE-transarterial chemoembolization: 16-93 years), conventional 
transarterial chemoembolization yielded a health benefit of 2.11 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY) at a cost of $125,324, whereas 
DEE-transarterial chemoembolization yielded 1.71 QALY for $144,816. In 10,000 
Monte Carlo simulations, conventional transarterial chemoembolization continued 
to be a more cost-effective strategy. conventional transarterial 
chemoembolization was cost-effective when the complication risks for both the 
procedures were simultaneously varied from 0% to 30%. DEE-transarterial 
chemoembolization became cost-effective if the conventional transarterial 
chemoembolization mortality exceeded that of DEE-transarterial chemoembolization 
by 17% in absolute values. The two-way sensitivity analyses demonstrated that 
conventional transarterial chemoembolization was cost-effective until the risk 
of disease progression was >0.4% of that for DEE-transarterial chemoembolization 
in absolute values. Our analysis showed that DEE-transarterial chemoembolization 
would be more cost-effective if it offered >2.5% higher overall survival benefit 
than conventional transarterial chemoembolization in absolute values.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with DEE-transarterial chemoembolization, conventional 
transarterial chemoembolization yielded a higher number of QALY at a lower cost, 
making it the more cost-effective of the 2 modalities.

Copyright © 2020 SIR. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvir.2020.09.022
PMID: 33160827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Aquat Toxicol. 2020 Dec;229:105654. doi: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2020.105654. Epub
 2020 Oct 11.

Urban stormwater and crude oil injury pathways converge on the developing heart 
of a shore-spawning marine forage fish.

Harding LB(1), Tagal M(2), Ylitalo GM(3), Incardona JP(3), Davis JW(4), Scholz 
NL(3), McIntyre JK(5).

Author information:
(1)Washington State University, School of the Environment, Puyallup Research and 
Extension Center, 2606 W. Pioneer Ave., Puyallup, WA, 98371, USA. Electronic 
address: louisa.harding@dfw.wa.gov.
(2)Lynker Technologies, Under Contract to Northwest Fisheries Science Center, 
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, 2725 Montlake Blvd. E., Seattle, WA, 98112, USA.
(3)Northwest Fisheries Science Center, National Marine Fisheries Service, 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 2725 Montlake Blvd. E., 
Seattle, WA 98112, USA.
(4)U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Washington Fish and Wildlife Office, 510 
Desmond Dr. S.E., Lacey, WA 98503, USA.
(5)Washington State University, School of the Environment, Puyallup Research and 
Extension Center, 2606 W. Pioneer Ave., Puyallup, WA, 98371, USA. Electronic 
address: jen.mcintyre@wsu.edu.

Understanding how aquatic organisms respond to complex chemical mixtures remains 
one of the foremost challenges in modern ecotoxicology. Although oil spills are 
typically high-profile disasters that release hundreds or thousands of chemicals 
into the environment, there is growing evidence for a common adverse outcome 
pathway (AOP) for the vulnerable embryos and larvae of fish species that spawn 
in oiled habitats. Molecular initiating events involve the disruption of 
excitation-contraction coupling in individual cardiomyocytes, which then 
dysregulate the form and function of the embryonic heart. Phenanthrenes and 
other three-ring (tricyclic) polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are key 
drivers for this developmental cardiotoxicity and are also relatively enriched 
in land-based urban runoff. Similar to oil spills, stormwater discharged from 
roadways and other high-traffic impervious surfaces contains myriad 
contaminants, many of which are uncharacterized in terms of their chemical 
identity and toxicity to aquatic organisms. Nevertheless, given the exceptional 
sensitivity of the developing heart to tricyclic PAHs and the ubiquitous 
presence of these compounds in road runoff, cardiotoxicity may also be a 
dominant aspect of the stormwater-induced injury phenotype in fish early life 
stages. Here we assessed the effects of traffic-related runoff on the embryos 
and early larvae of Pacific herring (Clupea pallasii), a marine forage fish that 
spawns along the coastline of western North America. We used the 
well-characterized central features of the oil toxicity AOP for herring embryos 
as benchmarks for a detailed analysis of embryolarval cardiotoxicity across a 
dilution gradient ranging from 12 to 50% stormwater diluted in clean seawater. 
These injury indicators included measures of circulatory function, ventricular 
area, heart chamber looping, and the contractility of both the atrium and the 
ventricle. We also determined tissue concentrations of phenanthrenes and other 
PAHs in herring embryos. We find that tricyclic PAHs are readily bioavailable 
during cardiogenesis, and that stormwater-induced toxicity is in many respects 
indistinguishable from canonical crude oil toxicity. Given the chemical 
complexity of urban runoff, non-tricyclic PAH-mediated mechanisms of 
developmental toxicity in fish remain likely. However, from the standpoint of 
managing wild herring populations, our results suggest that stormwater-driven 
threats to individual survival (both near-term and delayed mortality) can be 
understood from decades of past research on crude oil toxicity. Moreover, 
Pacific herring embryos are promising sentinels for water quality monitoring in 
nearshore marine habitats, as in situand sensitive indicators of both toxic 
runoff and the effectiveness of pollution reduction efforts such as green 
stormwater infrastructure.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2020.105654
PMID: 33161306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Orv Hetil. 2020 Nov 8;161(45):1899-1907. doi: 10.1556/650.2020.32043. Print
2020  Nov 8.

[COVID-19 and the ethical issues of justice and rationing in health care, with 
particular regard to the Italian experience].

[Article in Hungarian]

Péter OM(1).

Author information:
(1)1Általános Orvostudományi Kar, Magatartástudományi Intézet, Semmelweis 
Egyetem, Budapest, Nagyvárad tér 4., 1089.

Összefoglaló. A 2020. év elején kirobbant COVID-19-világjárvány többek között 
ráirányította a figyelmet az életmentő-életfenntartó kezelések igazságos 
elosztásának érzékeny kérdésére is. Európán belül elsőként Olaszországot 
sújtotta a katasztrófa, a válsághelyzetben pedig az érzéstelenítés, 
fájdalomcsillapítás, újraélesztés és intenzív ellátás területén tevékenykedő 
szakemberek olasz társasága, a SIAARTI 2020. március 6-án közzétett egy 15 
pontos ajánlást. E szerint utilitarista megközelítéssel a rendelkezésre álló 
szűkös erőforrásokat azon betegek kezelésére kellene fordítani, akik túlélési 
esélye nagyobb, valamint több életévre számíthatnak a jövőben, mert ez 
biztosíthatja a lehető legtöbb ember számára a lehető legnagyobb hasznot. A 
javaslat komoly szakmai vitát robbantott ki, amely egyértelművé tette, hogy az 
orvosi eszközök igazságos elosztására vonatkozó diskurzust feltétlenül folytatni 
kell, nemcsak Olaszországon belül, hanem a pandémiától sújtott többi államban 
is. Orv Hetil. 2020; 161(45): 1899-1907. Summary. Among other queries, the 
explosion of the COVID-19 pandemic at the beginning of 2020 has firmly put in 
focus the sensitive issue of how to allocate scarcely available life-saving 
treatments in a fair and just manner. The first European country to face an 
emergency caused by the pandemic was Italy. In a rapidly escalating crisis, on 
6th March 2020, the Italian Society of Anaesthesia, Analgesia, Resuscitation, 
and Intensive Care (SIAARTI) issued a series of 15 recommendations, suggesting 
that a utilitarian approach should be adopted in Italian health care and the 
extremely scarce resources should be reserved for patients with a greater 
probability of survival and life expectancy, in order to maximize the benefits 
for the largest possible number of people. The recommendations generated a 
heated debate among health care professionals, thereby evidencing that similar 
discussions must be initiated and pursued in all countries affected by the 
pandemic. Orv Hetil. 2020; 161(45): 1899-1907.

DOI: 10.1556/650.2020.32043
PMID: 33161388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2020 Sep;28(5):903-908.
doi:  10.32687/0869-866X-2020-28-5-903-908.

[The regional characteristics of indices of mortality of adult population and 
life expectancy].

[Article in Russian]

Gasaynieva MM(1), Abdurashitova LV(2), Zagoruychenko AA(3).

Author information:
(1)The Federal State Budget Educational Institution of Higher Education "The 
Dagestan State Medical University", 367000, Makhachkala, Russia, 
mgasajnieva@bk.ru.
(2)The Federal State Budget Educational Institution of Higher Education "The 
Dagestan State Medical University", 367000, Makhachkala, Russia.
(3)N. A. Semashko National Research Institute of Public Health, 105064, Moscow, 
Russia.

The article analyzes the demographic situation in the Republic of Dagestan and 
presents analysis of indices of population mortality and life expectancy. It is 
established that number of deaths per 1000 people of the Republic of Dagestan is 
one of the lowest not only in the Northern Caucasus, but in the country at 
large. At the same time, high mortality indices are determined in elder age 
groups both in Dagestan and on average in Russia. The main causes of death in 
the Republic of Dagestan are diseases of circulatory system and respiratory 
system, neoplasms, accidents, poisoning and traumas, which account almost three 
quarters of all cases of deaths. However, mortality indices in Dagestan from 
diseases of circulatory system, neoplasms, digestive system diseases, infectious 
and parasitic diseases are significantly lower as compared to the national 
average level. In Dagestan, one of the highest indices of life expectancy is 
observed as compared with other subjects of the Russian Federation (2nd place in 
the Russian Federation) - on 6 years exceeding the national average level (in 
males, difference in values ​​of indicator amounted to 7.5 years). In Dagestan, 
during analyzed period, life expectancy at birth increased more than on 5 years.

DOI: 10.32687/0869-866X-2020-28-5-903-908
PMID: 33161659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2020 Sep;28(5):941-947.
doi:  10.32687/0869-866X-2020-28-5-941-947.

[The motivation of citizen to follow healthy life-style by means of forming 
leader qualities in future medical specialists].

[Article in Russian]

Garanina IA(1), Tregubov VN(2).

Author information:
(1)The Federal State Autonomous Educational Institution of Higher Education "The 
I. M. Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University" (Sechenov University) of 
Minzdrav of Russia, 119991, Moscow, Russia.
(2)The Federal State Autonomous Educational Institution of Higher Education "The 
I. M. Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University" (Sechenov University) of 
Minzdrav of Russia, 119991, Moscow, Russia, tregubov.med@yandex.ru.

In actual conditions health care priority is in increasing population size and 
its life expectancy including duration of healthy life, reducing morbidity, 
mortality and disability of population, observance of rights of citizens related 
to health protection that can effectively be achieved by adherence of healthy 
lifestyle. In order to determine possibility of improving motivation of 
population to lead healthy lifestyle, through formation of leadership qualities 
in medical specialists, the study applied such methods as expert evaluation, 
questionnaire survey, interview, monographic and statistical techniques. The 
sampling consisted of 46 employees of the I. M. Sechenov First Moscow State 
Medical University as experts, 107 students of this educational organization 
were involved in questionnaire survey and interviewing, and 68 of them were 
included in the group with pronounced leadership qualities, and 39 respondents 
consisted the control group. Involving population into healthy lifestyle is 
priority task of all medical specialists that is regulated by work functions of 
their professional standards. The effective direction of this work is to 
influence internal motivation of citizens. The presence of leadership qualities 
in future medical specialists increases their ability to motivate the population 
to lead healthy lifestyle at the level of theoretical training by 33.3% and 
practical training by 65.5% as compared to control group. The main directions of 
improving motivational work to involve population into healthy lifestyle by 
future medical specialists is refusal by students' bad habits, teaching them 
specialized topics in all related disciplines, formation of students' leadership 
potential. To develop student's leadership skills, training program can be 
applied in the laboratory of excellence "Factory of health leaders", implemented 
at the N. A. Semashko Department of public health and health care.

DOI: 10.32687/0869-866X-2020-28-5-941-947
PMID: 33161665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Gerontol Geriatr Educ. 2021 Apr-Jun;42(2):151-165. doi: 
10.1080/02701960.2020.1843453. Epub 2020 Nov 9.

Interprofessional education - a case for Gerodontology training.

Shigli K(1), Nayak SS(2), Sharma S(3), Nayak V(4), Nayak PP(5), Kulkarni P(6), 
Manivasakan S(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, D.Y. Patil Dental School, Pune, India.
(2)Former Reader, Public Health Dentistry, Index Dental College, Indore, India.
(3)Department of General Medicine, DY Patil Medical College, DY Patil Education 
Society, Kolhapur, India.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Kasturba Medical College, Manipal Academy of 
Higher Education, Manipal, India.
(5)Department of Public Health Dentistry, Manipal College of Dental Sciences, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, India.
(6)Senior Consultant, Palliative Care, Meherbai Tata Memorial Hospital, 
Jamshedpur, India.
(7)Department of Prosthodontics, Indira Gandhi Institute of Dental Sciences, Sri 
Balaji Vidyapeeth, Puducherry, India.

Increasing life expectancy, concepts of patient well-being, and the multiplicity 
of needs of the geriatric population, demand contribution, and collaboration of 
physicians, dentists, psychologists, pharmacists, and other allied health 
disciplines, to provide quality care to patients. Interprofessional education 
(IPE) is an approach to education that improves collaboration among health 
professionals and it can aid in better management of geriatric patients. 
Communication and cooperation affect health care performance and hence, 
influence patient outcomes. Currently, each of the disciplines mentioned has 
customized undergraduate and/or postgraduate training in geriatric care. Though 
a uni-disciplinary educational approach increases knowledge and skills of 
individual professions separately, IPE offers significant advantages. IPE seeks 
to have students learning together, as well as from each other to develop 
exemplary collaborative practice. The World Health Organization (WHO) has 
proposed that IPE will ensure optimum health care. However, IPE is yet to find 
its proper place in dental education. It would help dental students to develop a 
positive attitude toward geriatric patients and increase their empathy and 
efficiency in the management of these patients. This manuscript seeks to 
highlight the concept of interprofessional education (IPE) in gerodontology and 
develop recommendations for implementation of IPE in India.

DOI: 10.1080/02701960.2020.1843453
PMID: 33161893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Injury. 2021 Apr;52(4):767-773. doi: 10.1016/j.injury.2020.11.002. Epub 2020
Nov  2.

Cost-Effectiveness analysis of the surgical management of fractures in Malawi: 
An economic evaluation of a high and low-income country surgical collaboration.

Agwu C(1), Purcell LN(2), Gallaher J(2), Young S(3), Banza L(4), Mansfield 
AJ(1), Charles A(5).

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Gillings School of Global Public 
Health, Department of Health Policy and Management.
(2)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, School of Medicine, Department 
of Surgery, 4008 Burnett Womack Building, CB 7228, United States.
(3)Department of Orthopedics, Haukeland University, Bergen, Norway.
(4)Department of Surgery, Kamuzu Central Hospital, Malawi.
(5)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, School of Medicine, Department 
of Surgery, 4008 Burnett Womack Building, CB 7228, United States. Electronic 
address: anthchar@med.unc.edu.

INTRODUCTION: Cost-effectiveness is an essential tool for identifying high-value 
interventions in resource-limited settings. This study aims to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of the surgical management of fractures by surgical residents 
at Kamuzu Central Hospital (KCH). Currently, the 5-year surgical training 
program is supported by the Malawi Ministry of Health, and two universities in 
the United States and Norway.
METHODS: We performed a modeled cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) from a public 
health sector perspective. Cost data were collected from the current residency 
program and effectiveness data estimated from clinical data derived from 
operative interventions for fractures between 2013 and 2017 at KCH. Three 
patient groups were used as the base case; (1) patients of all ages, (2) 
patients age ≥18 years, and (3) patients who were <18 years. A Monte Carlo 
simulation of 10,000 trials was conducted for the probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis.
RESULTS: The estimated average lifetime cost of training and compensating 
residency-trained surgeons over a 35-year career was $448,600 (SD $31,167). The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for providing surgical care to 
patients of all ages was $215 (SD $3,666) per disability-adjusted life-year 
(DALY), which is below the willingness-to pay-threshold (WTP) of $1,170 per DALY 
and highly cost-effective at a WTP threshold of $390. Each surgeon is estimated 
to avert approximately 5,570 DALYs during their career when performing 
operations to treat fractures.
CONCLUSION: The KCH surgical training program is highly cost-effective at 
reducing disability at an incremental cost of $215 per averted DALY. This CEA 
demonstrates that the current surgical training program is cost-effective in 
reducing morbidity among individuals with fractures.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.injury.2020.11.002
PMCID: PMC8084876
PMID: 33162013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
whose names are listed immediately below certify that they have NO af filiations 
with or involvement in any organization or entity with any financial interest 
(such as honoraria; educational grants; participation in speakers’ bureaus; 
membership, employment, consultancies, stock ownership, or other equity 
interest; and expert testimony or patent-licensing arrangements), or 
non-financial interest (such as personal or professional relationships, 
affiliations, knowledge or beliefs) in the subject matter or materials discussed 
in this manuscript.


623. J Risk Uncertain. 2020;61(2):101-128. doi: 10.1007/s11166-020-09337-2. Epub
2020  Nov 2.

Pricing the global health risks of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Viscusi WK(1).

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt Law School, 131 21st Ave. South, Nashville, TN 37203 USA.

Policies to address the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) require a balancing 
of the health risk reductions and the costs of economic dislocations. 
Application of the value of a statistical life (VSL) to monetize COVID-19 deaths 
produces a U.S. mortality cost estimate of $1.4 trillion for deaths in the first 
half of 2020. This article presents worldwide COVID-19 costs for over 100 
countries. The total global mortality cost through July 2, 2020 is $3.5 
trillion. The United States accounts for 25% of the deaths, but 41% of the 
mortality cost. Adjustments for the shorter life expectancy and lower income of 
the victims substantially reduces the estimated monetized losses, but may raise 
fundamental equity concerns. Morbidity effects of COVID-19 affect many more 
patients than do the disease's mortality risks. Consideration of the morbidity 
effects increase the expected health losses associated with COVID-19 illnesses 
by 10% to 40%.

© Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s11166-020-09337-2
PMCID: PMC7604649
PMID: 33162671


624. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2020 Oct 9;11:573479. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2020.573479. eCollection 2020.

Impact of Psychotropic Medication Effects on Obesity and the Metabolic Syndrome 
in People With Serious Mental Illness.

Mazereel V(1)(2), Detraux J(2), Vancampfort D(2)(3), van Winkel R(1)(2), De Hert 
M(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Center for Clinical Psychiatry, KU Leuven, 
Leuven, Belgium.
(2)University Psychiatric Center, KU Leuven, Kortenberg, Belgium.
(3)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(4)Antwerp Health Law and Ethics Chair, AHLEC University Antwerpen, Antwerp, 
Belgium.

People with serious mental illness (SMI), including schizophrenia, bipolar 
disorder, and major depressive disorder, have a higher mortality rate and 
shortened life expectancy. This is mainly attributable to physical diseases, 
particularly cardiovascular diseases (CVDs). Important risk factors for CVDs are 
obesity and other metabolic abnormalities, which are especially prevalent in 
people with SMI. Several factors contribute to this increased risk, including 
unhealthy lifestyles. Psychotropic medication independently further increases 
this risk. In this review we want to examine the relationship between obesity 
and other components of the metabolic syndrome and psychotropic medication in 
people with SMI.

Copyright © 2020 Mazereel, Detraux, Vancampfort, van Winkel and De Hert.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2020.573479
PMCID: PMC7581736
PMID: 33162935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Urolithiasis. 2021 Feb;49(1):73-79. doi: 10.1007/s00240-020-01224-4. Epub
2020  Nov 9.

Is health-related quality of life of patients after single-use flexible 
ureteroscopy superior to extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy? A randomised 
prospective study.

Svihra J Jr(1)(2), Sopilko I(1), Svihrova V(3), Student V(2), Luptak J(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Urology, University Hospital Martin, Kollarova 2, 036 59, Martin, 
Slovakia.
(2)Urology Clinic of the Faculty Hospital Olomouc, Faculty of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Palacký University Olomouc, Hněvotínská 3, 775 15, Olomouc, Czech 
Republic.
(3)Department of Public Health, Jessenius Faculty of Medicine in Martin, 
Comenius University Bratislava, Mala Hora 11149/4B, 036 01, Martin, Slovakia. 
viera.svihrova@uniba.sk.
(4)Clinic of Urology, Jessenius Faculty of Medicine in Martin, Comenius 
University Bratislava, Mala Hora 4A, 036 01, Martin, Slovakia.

Erratum in
    Urolithiasis. 2021 Jan 5;:

The aims of the study were to compare the change in the Wisconsin Stone Quality 
of Life (WISQOL) score in patients who underwent retrograde intrarenal surgery 
(RIRS) single-use ureteroscope or extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) 
with a calculation of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). 158 patients treated 
with urinary stone disease were randomly divided into 80 patients in the 
validation and 78 patients in the intervention arm. Patients in the intervention 
arm were randomly divided into the RIRS or the ESWL group. Linguistic validation 
of the WISQOL into the Slovak language was performed using a standardised 
multistep process. Discriminant validity was assessed by comparing stone-forming 
patients to an additional 34 healthy individuals. Patients were asked to fill in 
the WISQOL before and in the 24th week after the intervention. The QALYs were 
calculated by the formula QALY = weight factor (WF) x time period after 
intervention. The Cronbach's α of the WISQOL was 0.94, the Pearson's coefficient 
for test-retest reliability was 0.91, and the discriminant validity confirmed a 
higher score for healthy individuals (p < 0.001). The median WISQOL score 
changed from 45.5 to 95.5 vs. 33.9 to 87.1 in the RIRS and ESWL groups, 
respectively (p < 0.001). Patients from the RIRS group had a good possibility of 
reaching 19.727 QALYs gained during life expectancy compared to 15.780 for the 
ESWL group (p < 0.001). RIRS single-use ureteroscope is significantly superior 
to ESWL in reaching more QALYs gained during life expectancy. The WISQOL Slovak 
version is valid, reliable and strictly specific for stone-forming patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00240-020-01224-4
PMID: 33164114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Tissue Eng Part A. 2021 Sep;27(17-18):1128-1139. doi:
10.1089/ten.TEA.2020.0265.  Epub 2020 Dec 21.

Dental Pulp Cell Sheets Enhance Facial Nerve Regeneration via Local Neurotrophic 
Factor Delivery.

Ahmed MN(1)(2), Shi D(3)(4), Dailey MT(2)(5), Rothermund K(1)(2), Drewry 
MD(2)(3), Calabrese TC(2)(3), Cui XT(3)(4)(5), Syed-Picard FN(1)(2)(3)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Biology, School of Dental Medicine, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Center for Craniofacial Regeneration, School of Dental Medicine, University 
of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)Department of Bioengineering, Swanson School of Engineering, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(4)Center for Neural Basis of Cognition, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(5)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, School of Dental Medicine, 
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(6)McGowan Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania USA.

An effective strategy for sustained neurotrophic factor (NTF) delivery to sites 
of peripheral nerve injury (PNI) would accelerate healing and enhance functional 
recovery, addressing the major clinical challenges associated with the current 
standard of care. In this study, scaffold-free cell sheets were generated using 
human dental pulp stem/progenitor cells, that endogenously express high levels 
of NTFs, for use as bioactive NTF delivery systems. Additionally, the effect of 
fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) on NTF expression by dental pulp cell (DPC) 
sheets was evaluated. In vitro analysis confirmed that DPC sheets express high 
levels of NTF messenger RNA (mRNA) and proteins, and the addition of FGF2 to DPC 
sheet culture increased total NTF production by significantly increasing the 
cellularity of sheets. Furthermore, the DPC sheet secretome stimulated neurite 
formation and extension in cultured neuronal cells, and these functional effects 
were further enhanced when DPC sheets were cultured with FGF2. These 
neuritogenic results were reversed by NTF inhibition substantiating that DPC 
sheets have a positive effect on neuronal cell activity through the production 
of NTFs. Further evaluation of DPC sheets in a rat facial nerve crush injury 
model in vivo established that in comparison with untreated controls, nerves 
treated with DPC sheets had greater axon regeneration through the injury site 
and superior functional recovery as quantitatively assessed by compound muscle 
action potential measurements. This study demonstrates the use of DPC sheets as 
vehicles for NTF delivery that could augment the current methods for treating 
PNIs to accelerate regeneration and enhance the functional outcome. Impact 
statement The major challenges associated with current treatments of peripheral 
nerve injuries (PNIs) are prolonged repair times and insufficient functional 
recovery. Dental pulp stem/progenitor cells (DPCs) are known to endogenously 
express high levels of neurotrophic factors (NTFs), growth factors that enhance 
axon regeneration. In this study, we demonstrate that scaffold-free DPC sheets 
can act as effective carrier systems to facilitate the delivery and retention of 
NTF-producing DPCs to sites of PNIs and improve functional nerve regeneration. 
DPC sheets have high translational feasibility and could augment the current 
standard of care to enhance the quality of life for patients dealing with PNIs.

DOI: 10.1089/ten.TEA.2020.0265
PMCID: PMC8616747
PMID: 33164704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No competing financial interests exist.


627. Acta Med Port. 2021 Feb 1;34(2):118-127. doi: 10.20344/amp.12996. Epub 2020
Nov  9.

A Multivariable Prediction Model to Select Colorectal Surgical Patients for 
Co-Management.

Horta AB(1), Geraldes C(2), Salgado C(3), Vieira S(3), Xavier M(4), Papoila 
AL(2).

Author information:
(1)NOVA Medical School|Faculdade de Ciências Médicas. Lisboa; Serviço de 
Medicina Interna. Hospital da Luz. Lisboa. Portugal.
(2)NOVA Medical School|Faculdade de Ciências Médicas. Lisboa. Centro de 
Estatística e Aplicações. Universidade de Lisboa. Lisboa. Portugal.
(3)Instituto de Engenharia Mecânica (IDMEC). Instituto Superior Técnico. 
Universidade de Lisboa. Lisboa. Portugal.
(4)NOVA Medical School|Faculdade de Ciências Médicas. Lisboa. Portugal.

INTRODUCTION: Increased life expectancy leads to older and frailer surgical 
patients. Co-management between medical and surgical specialities has proven 
favourable in complex situations. Selection of patients for co-management is 
full of difficulties. The aim of this study was to develop a clinical decision 
support tool to select surgical patients for co-management.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Clinical data was collected from patient electronic health 
records with an ICD-9 code for colorectal surgery from January 2012 to December 
2015 at a hospital in Lisbon. The outcome variable consists in co-management 
signalling. A dataset from 344 patients was used to develop the prediction model 
and a second data set from 168 patients was used for external validation.
RESULTS: Using logistic regression modelling the authors built a five variable 
(age, burden of comorbidities, ASA-PS status, surgical risk and recovery time) 
predictive referral model for co-management. This model has an area under the 
curve (AUC) of 0.86 (95% CI: 0.81 - 0.90), a predictive Brier score of 0.11, a 
sensitivity of 0.80, a specificity of 0.82 and an accuracy of 81.3%.
DISCUSSION: Early referral of high-risk patients may be valuable to guide the 
decision on the best level of post-operative clinical care. We developed a 
simple bedside decision tool with a good discriminatory and predictive 
performance in order to select patients for comanagement.
CONCLUSION: A simple bed-side clinical decision support tool of patients for 
co-management is viable, leading to potential improvement in early recognition 
and management of postoperative complications and reducing the 'failure to 
rescue'. Generalizability to other clinical settings requires adequate 
customization and validation.

Publisher: Introdução: O aumento da esperança média de vida leva a que a 
população cirúrgica seja cada vez mais velha e frágil. Os modelos colaborativos 
de co-gestão entre especialidades médicas e cirúrgicas têm demonstrado ser 
favoráveis em situações complexas. A selecção de doentes para co-gestão está 
repleta de dificuldades. O objectivo deste estudo foi construir uma ferramenta 
de apoio à decisão para selecionar doentes de submetidos a cirurgia colo-rectal 
para co-gestão. Material e Métodos: A informação clínica foi colhida dos 
processos clínicos electrónicos de doentes que tiveram um código ICD-9 de 
cirurgia colo-rectal no período de janeiro 2012 a dezembro 2015, num hospital em 
Lisboa. A variável resposta consiste na sinalização para co-gestão. Um conjunto 
de dados de 344 doentes foi usado para o desenvolvimento do modelo predictivo e, 
um segundo conjunto de dados de 168 doentes foi usado para a validação externa 
do modelo. Resultados: Os autores construíram um modelo predictivo, de regressão 
logística, com cinco variáveis clínicas (idade, carga de co-morbilidades, ASA-PS 
status, risco cirúrgico e tempo de recobro) para predizer a selecção de doentes 
para co-gestão. O modelo tem uma área sob a curva (AUC) de 0,86 (95% IC: 0,81 - 
0,90), um score predictivo de Brier de 0,11, uma sensibilidade de 0,80, uma 
especificidade de 0,82 e uma precisão de classificação de 81,3%. Discussão: A 
sinalização precoce dos doentes de alto risco ajuda a definir o melhor nível de 
cuidados ao doente operado. Desenvolvemos uma ferramenta de apoio à decisão, 
simples, aplicável à cabeceira do doente com uma boa capacidade discriminativa e 
preditiva para seleccionar os doentes para co-gestão. Conclusão: A selecção de 
doentes para co-gestão entre a cirurgia e a medicina interna permite o 
reconhecimento e a correcção precoce de complicações pós-operatórias reduzindo o 
‘failure to rescue’. A ferramenta, uma vez customizada e validada, poderá ser 
aplicada em outros cenários clínicos.

DOI: 10.20344/amp.12996
PMID: 33164728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Gene. 2021 Feb 15;769:145256. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2020.145256. Epub 2020 Oct
23.

Molecular evolution of melatonin receptor genes (mtnr) in vertebrates and its 
shedding light on mtnr1c.

Li Y(1), Lv Y(2), Bian C(3), You X(3), Shi Q(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province for Fishes Conservation and Utilization in 
the Upper Reaches of the Yangtze River, College of Life Sciences, Neijiang 
Normal University, Neijiang 641100, China; Shenzhen Key Lab of Marine Genomics, 
Guangdong Provincial Key Lab of Molecular Breeding in Marine Economic Animals, 
BGI Academy of Marine Sciences, BGI Marine, BGI, Shenzhen 518083, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province for Fishes Conservation and Utilization in 
the Upper Reaches of the Yangtze River, College of Life Sciences, Neijiang 
Normal University, Neijiang 641100, China.
(3)Shenzhen Key Lab of Marine Genomics, Guangdong Provincial Key Lab of 
Molecular Breeding in Marine Economic Animals, BGI Academy of Marine Sciences, 
BGI Marine, BGI, Shenzhen 518083, China.
(4)Shenzhen Key Lab of Marine Genomics, Guangdong Provincial Key Lab of 
Molecular Breeding in Marine Economic Animals, BGI Academy of Marine Sciences, 
BGI Marine, BGI, Shenzhen 518083, China. Electronic address: 
shiqiong@genomics.cn.

Melatonin receptors (MTNRs) play important roles in regulation of circadian 
rhythms and seasonal reproduction. However, their origin and evolution in 
vertebrates have not been investigated. Here, we performed a comprehensive 
examination by comparative genome mining of MTNRs in vertebrates. We 
successfully extracted 164 putative encoding sequences for MTNRs (including 57 
mtnr1a, 59 mtnr1b and 48 mtnr1c) from 45 high-quality representative genomes. 
Interestingly, the putative expansions of mtnr1a and mtnr1b in zebrafish were 
also identified in other Cyprinifomes, but not in other orders of teleost. Using 
phylogenetic interference, we observed this expansion to be clustered into a 
primitive position of the Actinopterygii, which may be resulted from 
teleost-specific genome duplication. The C-terminal extension of MTNR1C, 
predicted to be proteoglycan 4 (PRG4), originated after the speciation of 
Monotremata or Marsupialia. Our present genomics survey provides novel insights 
into the evolution of MTNRs in vertebrates and updates our understanding of 
these proteins.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2020.145256
PMID: 33164759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2021 Jan;32(1):31-44. doi:
10.1097/ICU.0000000000000719.

A review of late intraocular lens opacifications.

Kanclerz P(1), Yildirim TM(2), Khoramnia R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hygeia Clinic, Gdańsk, Poland.
(2)David J. Apple International Laboratory for Ocular Pathology and 
International Vision Correction Research Centre (IVCRC), Department of 
Ophthalmology, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Phacoemulsification cataract surgery is one of the most 
commonly performed surgical procedure worldwide. In the majority of cases, 
intraocular lenses (IOLs) are implanted. Due to the increasing life expectancy 
and the fact that cataract surgery is performed in earlier stages, the 
anticipated IOL duration in the eye has increased over the last decades. The aim 
of this study was to review the types and describe the characteristics of late 
intraocular lens opacifications.
RECENT FINDINGS: Calcification was the most commonly reported type of 
opacification in hydrophilic IOLs; it usually negatively impacted the visual 
function and required IOL explantation. Glistening manifested in hydrophobic 
acrylic lenses and was frequent in some IOL models. In most cases glistening and 
subsurface nanoglistenigs do not lead to a decline in visual acuity or require 
IOL exchange. Current studies indicate that fluid-related phenomena may induce 
straylight, leading to a decrease of comfort and quality of vision.
SUMMARY: Several reports on late IOL opacifications have been published in 
recent years. In some cases, particularly in glistening, the development of the 
opacifications might be related to IOL aging. The influence of the fluid-related 
microvacuoles on the quality of vision requires further research.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000719
PMID: 33165018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. JBI Evid Synth. 2021 Jun;19(6):1362-1368. doi: 10.11124/JBIES-20-00244.

Understanding the experience of diagnostic overshadowing associated with severe 
mental illness from the consumer and health professional perspective: a 
qualitative systematic review protocol.

Molloy R(1)(2), Munro I(1)(2), Pope N(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.
(2)Australian College of Mental Health Nurses, Canberra, ACT, Australia.
(3)The Western Australian Group for Evidence Informed Healthcare Practice: A JBI 
Centre of Excellence, Perth, WA, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this review is to identify, appraise, and synthesize 
available qualitative evidence related to diagnostic overshadowing in mental 
health consumers who present with clinical manifestations of physical illness.
INTRODUCTION: A lived experience of mental illness is associated with 
compromised physical health and decreased life expectancy. Mental health 
consumers face greater barriers to accessing treatment for physical illnesses 
and are less likely to receive appropriate physical care than those without 
mental illness. Physical illnesses may go underdiagnosed and undertreated in 
mental health consumers because clinicians tend to focus on the mental illness 
to the exclusion of other health problems, a phenomenon called diagnostic 
overshadowing. This systematic review will combine the experiences of mental 
health consumers and health care professionals to gain deeper understanding of 
diagnostic overshadowing.
INCLUSION CRITERIA: This review will consider qualitative studies that include 
the experiences of diagnostic overshadowing in mental health consumers and/or 
the health care professionals who treat them. Studies conducted in any health 
care facility or service offering care for physical illnesses will be 
considered.
METHODS: MEDLINE, CINAHL, PsycINFO, and Scopus will be searched along with 
sources of gray literature. Studies in English published from 2004 onward will 
be considered. Retrieval of full-text studies, assessment of methodological 
quality, and data extraction will be performed independently by two reviewers. 
Findings will, where possible, be pooled using JBI SUMARI with the 
meta-aggregation approach. A ConQual Summary of Findings will be presented.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION NUMBER: PROSPERO CRD42020186418.

Copyright © 2021 JBI.

DOI: 10.11124/JBIES-20-00244
PMID: 33165171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


631. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2020 Nov 2;44:e136. doi: 10.26633/RPSP.2020.136. 
eCollection 2020.

Life expectancy, death, and disability in Haiti, 1990-2017: a systematic 
analysis from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017.

Fene F(1), Ríos-Blancas MJ(1), Lachaud J(2), Razo C(3), Lamadrid-Figueroa H(1), 
Liu M(4), Michel J(5), Thermidor R(6), Lozano R(3).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health Cuernavaca Mexico National Institute of 
Public Health, Cuernavaca, Mexico.
(2)St. Michael's Hospital Toronto Canada St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, 
Canada.
(3)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation Seattle United States of America 
Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, Seattle, United States of America.
(4)Harvard Medical School Boston United States of America Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, United States of America.
(5)Family Health International Port-au-Prince Haiti Family Health International, 
Port-au-Prince, Haiti.
(6)Ministry of Public Health and Population Port-au-Prince Haiti Ministry of 
Public Health and Population, Port-au-Prince, Haiti.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the magnitude and distribution of the main causes of 
death, disability, and risk factors in Haiti.
METHODS: We conducted an ecological analysis, using data estimated from the 
Global Burden of Disease Study 2017 for the period 1990-2017, to present life 
expectancy (LE), healthy life expectancy (HALE) at under 1-year-old, 
cause-specific deaths, years of life lost (YLLs), years lived with disability 
(YLDs), disability adjusted life-years (DALYs), and risk factors associated with 
DALYs.
RESULTS: LE and HALE increased substantially in Haiti. People may hope to live 
longer in 2017, but in poor health. The Caribbean countries had significantly 
lower YLLs rates than Haiti for ischemic heart disease, stroke, lower 
respiratory infections, and diarrheal diseases. Road injuries were the leading 
cause of DALYs for people aged 5-14 years. Road injuries and HIV/AIDS were the 
leading causes of DALYs for men and women aged 15-49 years, respectively. 
Ischemic heart disease was the main cause of DALYs for people older than 50 
years. Maternal and child malnutrition were the leading risk factors for DALYs 
in both sexes.
CONCLUSION: Haiti faces a double burden of disease. Infectious diseases continue 
to be an issue, while non-communicable diseases have become a significant burden 
of disease. More attention must also be focused on the increase in worrying 
public health issues such as road injuries, exposure to forces of nature and 
HIV/AIDS in specific age groups. To address the burden of disease, sustained 
actions are needed to promote better health in Haiti and countries with similar 
challenges.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Investigar la magnitud y la distribución de las principales 
causas de muerte, discapacidad y factores de riesgo en Haití.
MÉTODOS: Se llevó a cabo un análisis ecológico con datos estimados a partir del 
estudio Carga Global de Morbilidad 2017 para el período 1990-2017 para presentar 
la esperanza de vida (LE), la esperanza de vida saludable (HALE), la mortalidad 
por causas específicas, los años de vida perdidos (YLL), los años vividos con 
discapacidad (YLD), los años de vida ajustados por discapacidad (DALY), y los 
factores de riesgo asociados a los DALY.
RESULTADOS: La LE y la HALE aumentaron sustancialmente en Haití. En 2017, la 
población puede esperar vivir más, pero con mala salud. Los países del Caribe 
tuvieron tasas de YLL significativamente más bajas que Haití en cuanto a 
cardiopatías isquémicas, accidentes cerebrovasculares, infecciones respiratorias 
bajas y enfermedades diarreicas. Las lesiones debidas a accidentes de tránsito 
fueron la principal causa de DALY para las personas de 5 a 14 años. Las lesiones 
debidas a accidentes de tránsito y el VIH/sida fueron las principales causas de 
DALY en hombres y mujeres de 15 a 49 años de edad, respectivamente. Las 
cardiopatías isquémicas fueron la principal causa de DALY para las personas 
mayores de 50 años. Las desnutriciones materna e infantil fueron los principales 
factores de riesgo de DALY en ambos sexos.
CONCLUSIÓN: Haití se enfrenta a una doble carga de enfermedad. Las enfermedades 
infecciosas siguen siendo un problema, mientras que las enfermedades no 
transmisibles se han convertido en una carga significativa de enfermedad. 
También debe prestarse más atención al aumento de problemas de salud pública 
preocupantes, como las lesiones por accidentes de tránsito, la exposición a 
fenómenos naturales y el VIH/sida en grupos etarios específicos. Para hacer 
frente a la carga de morbilidad es necesario adoptar medidas sostenidas para 
promover una mejor salud en Haití y en los países con desafíos similares.

DOI: 10.26633/RPSP.2020.136
PMCID: PMC7603356
PMID: 33165413


632. J Anim Sci. 2020 Dec 1;98(12):skaa358. doi: 10.1093/jas/skaa358.

Maternal periconceptual nutrition, early pregnancy, and developmental outcomes 
in beef cattle.

Caton JS(1), Crouse MS(2), McLean KJ(3), Dahlen CR(1), Ward AK(1), Cushman 
RA(2), Grazul-Bilska AT(1), Neville BW(4), Borowicz PP(1), Reynolds LP(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Nutrition and Pregnancy, and Department of Animal Sciences, North 
Dakota State University, Fargo, ND.
(2)USDA, ARS, U.S. Meat Animal Research Center, Clay Center, NE.
(3)Department of Animal Science, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN.
(4)Carrington Research Extension Center, Carrington, ND.

The focus of this review is maternal nutrition during the periconceptual period 
and offspring developmental outcomes in beef cattle, with an emphasis on the 
first 50 d of gestation, which represents the embryonic period. Animal 
agriculture in general, and specifically the beef cattle industry, currently 
faces immense challenges. The world needs to significantly increase its output 
of animal food products by 2050 and beyond to meet the food security and 
agricultural sustainability needs of the rapidly growing human population. 
Consequently, efficient and sustainable approaches to livestock production are 
essential. Maternal nutritional status is a major factor that leads to 
developmental programming of offspring outcomes. Developmental programming 
refers to the influence of pre-and postnatal factors, such as inappropriate 
maternal nutrition, that affect growth and development and result in long-term 
consequences for health and productivity of the offspring. In this review, we 
discuss recent studies in which we and others have addressed the questions, "Is 
development programmed periconceptually?" and, if so, "Does it matter 
practically to the offspring in production settings?" The reviewed studies have 
demonstrated that the periconceptual period is important not only for pregnancy 
establishment but also may be a critical period during which fetal, placental, 
and potentially postnatal development and function are programmed. The evidence 
for fetal and placental programming during the periconceptual period is strong 
and implies that research efforts to mitigate the negative and foster the 
positive benefits of developmental programming need to include robust 
investigative efforts during the periconceptual period to better understand the 
implications for life-long health and productivity.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
American Society of Animal Science. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jas/skaa358
PMCID: PMC7718859
PMID: 33165531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Diabetes Ther. 2021 Jan;12(1):235-246. doi: 10.1007/s13300-020-00959-y. Epub
 2020 Nov 9.

Long-Term Cost-Effectiveness the Dexcom G6 Real-Time Continuous Glucose 
Monitoring System Compared with Self-Monitoring of Blood Glucose in People with 
