malignant), a validation set (n = 100; 60 benign and 40 malignant) and a test 
set (n = 150; 75 benign and 75 malignant). We used transfer learning on three 
pre-trained DNNs: VGG16, ResNet50 and MobileNet. Each model was trained, and the 
outputs calibrated, using temperature scaling. An ensemble of the three models 
was then used to estimate the probability of malignancy based on all images from 
a given case. The DNN ensemble classified the tumors as benign or malignant 
(Ovry-Dx1 model); or as benign, inconclusive or malignant (Ovry-Dx2 model). The 
diagnostic performance of the DNN models, in terms of sensitivity and 
specificity, was compared to that of SA for classifying ovarian tumors in the 
test set.
RESULTS: At a sensitivity of 96.0%, Ovry-Dx1 had a specificity similar to that 
of SA (86.7% vs 88.0%; P = 1.0). Ovry-Dx2 had a sensitivity of 97.1% and a 
specificity of 93.7%, when designating 12.7% of the lesions as inconclusive. By 
complimenting Ovry-Dx2 with SA in inconclusive cases, the overall sensitivity 
(96.0%) and specificity (89.3%) were not significantly different from using SA 
in all cases (P = 1.0).
CONCLUSION: Ultrasound image analysis using DNNs can predict ovarian malignancy 
with a diagnostic accuracy comparable to that of human expert examiners, 
indicating that these models may have a role in the triage of women with an 
ovarian tumor. © 2020 The Authors. Ultrasound in Obstetrics & Gynecology 
published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society of 
Ultrasound in Obstetrics and Gynecology.

Publisher: Análisis de imágenes ecográficas utilizando redes neurales profundas 
para distinguir entre tumores ováricos benignos y malignos: comparación con la 
evaluación subjetiva de expertos OBJETIVOS: Desarrollar y probar el desempeño 
del análisis de imágenes ecográficas computarizadas utilizando redes neurales 
profundas (RNP) para distinguir entre tumores ováricos benignos y malignos y 
comparar su precisión en el diagnóstico con la de la evaluación subjetiva (ES) 
por especialistas expertos en ecografía. MÉTODOS: Se incluyeron 3077 (escala de 
grises, n=1927; power Doppler, n=1150) imágenes de ultrasonido de 758 mujeres 
con tumores ováricos, que fueron clasificadas prospectivamente por examinadores 
especialistas en ecografía, de acuerdo con los términos y definiciones de la 
IOTA (Análisis Internacional de Tumores Ováricos). El resultado histológico de 
la cirugía (n=634) o el seguimiento a largo plazo (≥3 años) (n=124) sirvieron 
como el estándar de referencia. El conjunto de datos se dividió en un 
subconjunto de formación (n=508; 314 benignos y 194 malignos), un subconjunto de 
validación (n=100; 60 benignos y 40 malignos) y un subconjunto de pruebas 
(n=150; 75 benignos y 75 malignos). Se utilizó el aprendizaje de transferencia 
en tres RNP pre-formadas: VGG16, ResNet50 y MobileNet. Cada modelo fue formado 
primero mediante escalas de temperatura, al igual que los la calibración de los 
outputs. A continuación, se utilizó una combinación de los tres modelos para 
estimar la probabilidad de que el tumor fuera maligno con base en la totalidad 
de las imágenes de un caso determinado. La combinación de RNP permitió 
clasificar los tumores como benignos o malignos (modelo Ovry-Dx1); o como 
benignos, no concluyentes o malignos (modelo Ovry-Dx2). Se comparó el desempeño 
para el diagnóstico de los modelos de RNP, en términos de sensibilidad y de 
especificidad, con el de la ES para la clasificación de los tumores ováricos en 
el subconjunto de formación. RESULTADOS: Con una sensibilidad del 96,0%, 
Ovry-Dx1 tuvo una especificidad similar a la de la ES (86,7% frente a 88,0%; 
P=1,0). Ovry-Dx2 tuvo una sensibilidad del 97,1% y una especificidad del 93,7%, 
y designaron un 12,7% de las lesiones como no concluyentes. Cuando se 
complementó Ovry-Dx2 con ES en los casos no concluyentes, la sensibilidad 
general (96,0%) y la especificidad (89,3%) no fueron significativamente 
diferentes de la utilización de ES en todos los casos (P=1,0). CONCLUSIÓN: El 
análisis de imágenes ecográficas mediante RNP puede predecir el cáncer de ovario 
con una precisión en el diagnóstico igual a la de los especialistas expertos 
humanos, lo que indica que estos modelos pueden jugar un papel en el triaje de 
mujeres con un tumor de ovario. © 2020 The Authors. Ultrasound in Obstetrics & 
Gynecology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society 
of Ultrasound in Obstetrics and Gynecology.

Publisher: 采用基于深度神经网络的超声图像分析来辨别良性和恶性卵巢肿瘤:与专家主观评价对比 目的: 
开发并检测采用基于深度神经网络(DNN)的电脑化超声图像分析来辨别良性和恶性卵巢肿瘤的性能，并将其诊断准确性与由一名超声专家进行主观评价(SA)的诊断准确性进行对比。 
方法: 
我们包含了3077张(灰度图，n=1927；能量多普勒，n=1150)来自758名有卵巢肿瘤妇女的超声图像，她们已由专家超声检查人员根据IOTA(国际卵巢肿瘤分析)术语和定义进行预期分类。以手术的组织学预后(n=634)或长期(≥3年)随访(n=124)作为金标准。数据集被分成训练集(n=508；314个良性和194个恶性)、验证集(n=100；60个良性和40个L恶性)和测试集(n=150；75个良性和75个恶性)。我们将迁移学习用于三个预先训练的DNN:VGG16、ResNet50和MobileNet。每个模型都受过训练，对结果进行过标准化，采用温度定标。然后，根据给定病例的所有图像，三个模型整体被用于判断恶性的可能性。DNN整体将肿瘤分类为良性或恶性(Ovry-Dx1模型)；或良性、不确定或恶性(Ovry-Dx2模型)。从敏感性和特异性角度，就测试集中卵巢肿瘤的分类将DNN模型的诊断性能与SA的诊断性能进行对比。 
结果: 当敏感度为96.0%时，Ovry-Dx1的特异性类似于SA的特异性(86.7% vs 88.0%；P=1.0)。 
在将12.7%的病灶指定为不确定时，Ovry-Dx2的敏感度为97.1%，特异性为93.7%。在不确定的病例中用Ovry-Dx2来补充SA，总体敏感度(96.0%)和特异性(89.3%)与在所有病例中使用SA(P=1.0)无显著差异。 
结论: 基于DNN的超声图像分析可以用来预测卵巢恶性肿瘤，其诊断准确性能够达到人类专家检查人员的程度，表明这些模型可能在卵巢肿瘤妇女的分诊中起到作用。© 
2020 作者。威利父子公司(John Wiley & Sons Ltd)代表国际妇产科超声学会(ISUOG)出版《国际妇产超声杂志》(Ultrasound 
in Obstetrics & Gynecology)。.

© 2020 The Authors. Ultrasound in Obstetrics & Gynecology published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society of Ultrasound in Obstetrics 
and Gynecology.

DOI: 10.1002/uog.23530
PMCID: PMC7839489
PMID: 33142359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Pediatr Transplant. 2021 Feb;25(1):e13891. doi: 10.1111/petr.13891. Epub
2020  Nov 3.

Multicenter data to improve health for pediatric renal transplant recipients in 
North America: Complementary approaches of NAPRTCS and IROC.

Hooper DK(1)(2), Misurac J(3), Blydt-Hansen T(4), Chua AN(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology (MLC-7022) and James M Anderson Center for Health 
Systems Excellence (MLC-7014), Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, 
Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(2)College of Medicine, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(3)Division of Pediatric Nephrology, Dialysis, and Transplantation, University 
of Iowa Stead Family Children's Hospital, Iowa City, IA, USA.
(4)Division of Nephrology, BC Children's Hospital, University of British 
Colombia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(5)Division of Pediatric Nephrology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, 
USA.

Kidney transplantation increases life expectancy and improves quality of life 
for children with end-stage kidney disease, yet sequelae of transplantation and 
treatment make it difficult for transplant recipients to enjoy health and 
quality of life similar to their healthy peers. The NAPRTCS network was among 
the first to use multicenter data to inform improvements in care and outcomes 
for children with a kidney transplant through observational research. Now, with 
new technologies and unprecedented access to data, it is possible to create 
learning health systems as envisioned by the US National Academy of Sciences to 
seamlessly integrate research and continuous improvement of clinical care. In 
this review, we present two pre-eminent North American networks focused on using 
multicenter data to drive improved care and outcomes for children with a kidney 
transplant. Whereas, for the past 30 years NAPRTCS has focused on discovery of 
best practices through observational research and clinical trials, the Improving 
Renal Outcomes Collaborative, established in 2016, engages patients, families, 
clinicians, and researchers in redesigning the healthcare delivery system to 
enable practice change and continuous improvement of health outcomes. We discuss 
the history and past contributions of these networks, as well as current 
activities, barriers, and potential future solutions to more fully realize the 
vision of a true learning health system for pediatric kidney transplant 
recipients.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1111/petr.13891
PMID: 33142362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Ann Thorac Surg. 2021 Aug;112(2):526-531. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2020.07.106.  Epub 2020 Nov 2.

Long-term Healthcare Expenditures Over Time for Tissue and Mechanical Aortic 
Valve Replacement.

Nguyen TC(1), Walker T(2), Gunnarsson C(3), Moore M(2), Keuffel EL(4).

Author information:
(1)Memorial Hermann Medical Center, University of Texas, Houston, Texas. 
Electronic address: tom.c.nguyen@gmail.com.
(2)Edwards Lifesciences, Irvine, California.
(3)Gunnarsson Consulting, Jupiter, Florida.
(4)Health Finance & Access Initiative, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania.

BACKGROUND: Guidelines currently indicate the use of surgical aortic valve 
replacement (SAVR) to treat severe cases of aortic stenosis, particularly for 
low- to medium-risk patients. Although several studies have compared health 
outcomes of tissue and mechanical SAVR, this economic simulation model estimates 
the difference in long-term healthcare costs associated with tissue relative to 
mechanical SAVR.
METHODS: The deterministic and Monte Carlo simulation models used 
literature-based epidemiologic and cost inputs to calculate annual expenditures 
related to SAVR for up to 25 years after initial surgery. A series of 3 cohort 
studies across different age groups provided the health outcome probabilities 
for tissue valve patients. Outcome probabilities for mechanical valve patients 
were based on relative risks reported in comparative meta-analyses or large 
cohort studies.
RESULTS: Relative to mechanical SAVR the expected net discounted savings for a 
patient receiving tissue SAVR at ages 45, 55, and 65 years were $12,266, 
$15,462, and $16,008, respectively (based on 2018 US dollars) over a 25-year 
horizon (95% confidence intervals exceed $0). For a 45-year-old tissue SAVR 
patient, the estimated per-patient cost difference (relative to mechanical SAVR) 
of reoperation over 25 years ($16,201) were offset by expected savings on 
anticoagulation monitoring ($26,257) over the same period. In a sensitivity 
analysis in which mortality risk was assumed equal, significant long-term 
savings associated with tissue SAVR still accrued in each of the 3 age cohorts.
CONCLUSIONS: Payers, providers, and the healthcare system may financially 
benefit from the use of tissue valves because significant savings were 
associated with the use of tissue valves relative to mechanical valves for SAVR.

Copyright © 2021 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2020.07.106
PMID: 33144108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2020 Nov 3;75(4):315-20. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2020-214373. Online ahead of print.

Scaling COVID-19 against inequalities: should the policy response consistently 
match the mortality challenge?

McCartney G(1), Leyland A(2), Walsh D(3), Ruth D(2).

Author information:
(1)Place and Wellbeing Directorate, Public Health Scotland, Glasgow, UK 
gmccartney@nhs.net.
(2)MRC/CSO Social and Public Health Sciences Unit, University of Glasgow, 
Glasgow, UK.
(3)Glasgow Centre for Population Health, Glasgow, UK.

BACKGROUND: The mortality impact of COVID-19 has thus far been described in 
terms of crude death counts. We aimed to calibrate the scale of the modelled 
mortality impact of COVID-19 using age-standardised mortality rates and life 
expectancy contribution against other, socially determined, causes of death in 
order to inform governments and the public.
METHODS: We compared mortality attributable to suicide, drug poisoning and 
socioeconomic inequality with estimates of mortality from an infectious disease 
model of COVID-19. We calculated age-standardised mortality rates and life 
expectancy contributions for the UK and its constituent nations.
RESULTS: Mortality from a fully unmitigated COVID-19 pandemic is estimated to be 
responsible for a negative life expectancy contribution of -5.96 years for the 
UK. This is reduced to -0.33 years in the fully mitigated scenario. The 
equivalent annual life expectancy contributions of suicide, drug poisoning and 
socioeconomic inequality-related deaths are -0.25, -0.20 and -3.51 years, 
respectively. The negative impact of fully unmitigated COVID-19 on life 
expectancy is therefore equivalent to 24 years of suicide deaths, 30 years of 
drug poisoning deaths and 1.7 years of inequality-related deaths for the UK.
CONCLUSION: Fully mitigating COVID-19 is estimated to prevent a loss of 
5.63 years of life expectancy for the UK. Over 10 years, there is a greater 
negative life expectancy contribution from inequality than around six 
unmitigated COVID-19 pandemics. To achieve long-term population health 
improvements it is therefore important to take this opportunity to introduce 
post-pandemic economic policies to 'build back better'.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2020-214373
PMCID: PMC7958082
PMID: 33144334

Conflict of interest statement: Correction notice: This article has been 
corrected since it first published online. The ‘Funding’ statement has been 
corrected. Competing interests: None declared.


564. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2021 Jan;17(1):4-5. doi: 10.1038/s41574-020-00440-7.

Life expectancy: benefits of bariatric surgery clarified.

Morris A(1).

Author information:
(1)Nature Reviews Endocrinology, . nrendo@nature.com.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2020 Oct 15;383(16):1535-1543.

DOI: 10.1038/s41574-020-00440-7
PMID: 33144688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Br J Cancer. 2021 Feb;124(3):671-677. doi: 10.1038/s41416-020-01144-5. Epub
2020  Nov 4.

Understanding the impact of sex and stage differences on melanoma cancer patient 
survival: a SEER-based study.

Smith AJ(1), Lambert PC(2)(3), Rutherford MJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK. 
ajs134@le.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK.
(3)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: This paper investigates the difference in survival of melanoma 
patients across stage and sex by utilising net survival measures. Metrics are 
presented at both the individual and population level.
METHODS: Flexible parametric models were fitted to estimate life-expectancy 
metrics to be applied to a group of 104,938 subjects with a melanoma skin cancer 
diagnosis from 2000 to 2017. Period analysis was used for better predictions for 
newly diagnosed patients, and missing-stage information was imputed for 9918 
patients. Female relative survival was assigned to male subjects to demonstrate 
the survival discrepancies experienced between sexes.
RESULTS: At the age of 60, males diagnosed at the regional stage lose an average 
of 4.99 years of life compared to the general population, and females lose 4.79 
years, demonstrating the sex variation in expected mortality. In 2017, males 
contributed 3545 more life years lost than females, and a potential 1931 life 
years could be preserved if sex differences in survival were eliminated.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates the survival differences across population 
subgroups as a result of a melanoma cancer diagnosis. Females experience better 
prognosis across age and stage at diagnosis; however, further investigation is 
necessary to better understand the mechanisms behind this difference.

DOI: 10.1038/s41416-020-01144-5
PMCID: PMC7851379
PMID: 33144697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


566. Ecancermedicalscience. 2020 Sep 21;14:1106. doi: 10.3332/ecancer.2020.1106. 
eCollection 2020.

Antibiotics, cancer risk and oncologic treatment efficacy: a practical review of 
the literature.

Martins Lopes MS(1), Machado LM(1), Ismael Amaral Silva PA(1), Tome Uchiyama 
AA(1), Yen CT(1), Ricardo ED(1), Mutao TS(1), Pimenta JR(1), Shimba DS(1), 
Hanriot RM(1), Peixoto RD(2).

Author information:
(1)Hospital Alemão Oswaldo Cruz, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Centro Paulista de Oncologia (Grupo Oncoclínicas), São Paulo, Brazil.

Antibiotics have been extensively used to treat infectious diseases over the 
past century and have largely contributed to increased life expectancy over 
time. However, antibiotic use can impose profound and protracted changes to the 
diversity of the microbial ecosystem, affecting the composition of up to 30% of 
the bacterial species in the gut microbiome. By modifying human microbiota 
composition, antibiotics alter the action of several oncologic drugs, 
potentially leading to decreased efficacy and increased toxicities. Whether 
antibiotics interfere with cancer therapies or even increase the risk of cancer 
development has been under investigation, and no randomised trials have been 
conducted so far. The aim of the current review is to describe the possible 
effects of antibiotic therapies on different oncologic treatments, especially 
immunotherapies, and to explore the link between previous antibiotics use and 
the development of cancer.

© the authors; licensee ecancermedicalscience.

DOI: 10.3332/ecancer.2020.1106
PMCID: PMC7581329
PMID: 33144874

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


567. HRB Open Res. 2020 Nov 11;3:64. doi: 10.12688/hrbopenres.13124.2.
eCollection  2020.

Housing with support for older people: a mixed-methods systematic review 
protocol.

Coyle C(1)(2), Buggy S(1), Cagney O(1), Farragher L(1), Lee C(1), Patje D(1), 
Long J(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Research Board, Dublin, Ireland.
(2)Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.

Background: The implementation of housing with support is rapidly expanding, 
particularly as life expectancy is increasing throughout the world. This 
expansion is likely to intensify in the context of coronavirus disease 2019 
(COVID-19), which has revealed the risks of relying primarily on nursing homes. 
This mixed-methods systematic review aims to: 1) explore older people's 
perceptions and experiences of housing with support and 2) examine the impact of 
providing housing with support for older people on their quality of life. 
Methods: The databases Ovid Medline, Ovid Social Policy & Practice, EBSCO 
CINAHL, and EBSCO SOCIndex will be searched, and grey literature will also be 
identified. Quality assessment will be carried out using Joanna Briggs 
Institute's Critical Appraisal Checklist for Qualitative Research as well as a 
tool from the National Institutes of Health for observational cohort studies. 
This review will employ convergent parallel design; as such, qualitative and 
quantitative findings will be synthesised separately in the initial stage of 
analysis. The results from the qualitative and quantitative syntheses will then 
be integrated in the final stage of the analysis. Conclusion: This systematic 
review will synthesise the evidence regarding older people's perceptions and 
experiences of housing with support and the impact of providing housing with 
support for older people on their quality of life.

Copyright: © 2020 Coyle C et al.

DOI: 10.12688/hrbopenres.13124.2
PMCID: PMC7592024
PMID: 33145477

Conflict of interest statement: No competing interests were disclosed.


568. Pharmacoeconomics. 2021 Feb;39(2):171-180. doi: 10.1007/s40273-020-00971-x.
Epub  2020 Nov 4.

Lenalidomide with Rituximab for Previously Treated Follicular Lymphoma and 
Marginal Zone Lymphoma: An Evidence Review Group Perspective of a NICE Single 
Technology Appraisal.

Witlox WJA(1), Grimm SE(1), Riemsma R(2), Armstrong N(2), Ryder S(2), Duffy 
S(2), Carrera VH(2), Posadzki P(2), Worthy G(2), Pouwels XGLV(1)(3), Ramaekers 
BLT(1), Kleijnen J(2)(4), Joore MA(1)(4), van Asselt ADI(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology Assessment, 
Maastricht University Medical Centre+, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(2)Kleijnen Systematic Reviews Ltd, York, UK.
(3)Department of Health Technology and Services Research, Faculty of 
Behavioural, Management and Social Sciences, Technical Medical Centre, 
University of Twente, Enschede, The Netherlands.
(4)Care and Public Health Research Institute (CAPHRI), Maastricht University, 
Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology Assessment, 
Maastricht University Medical Centre+, Maastricht, The Netherlands. 
a.d.i.van.asselt@umcg.nl.
(6)Department of Epidemiology, University Medical Center Groningen, University 
of Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, PO Box 30.001, 9700 RB, Groningen, The Netherlands. 
a.d.i.van.asselt@umcg.nl.
(7)Department of Health Sciences, University Medical Center Groningen, 
University of Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, PO Box 30.001, 9700 RB, Groningen, The 
Netherlands. a.d.i.van.asselt@umcg.nl.

The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) invited the 
manufacturer (Celgene) of lenalidomide (Revlimid®), as part of the Single 
Technology Appraisal (STA) process, to submit evidence for the clinical 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of lenalidomide in combination with 
rituximab (MabThera®), together referred to as R2, for the treatment of adults 
with treated follicular lymphoma (FL) or marginal zone lymphoma (MZL). Kleijnen 
Systematic Reviews Ltd, in collaboration with Maastricht University Medical 
Centre+, was commissioned to act as the independent Evidence Review Group (ERG). 
This paper summarises the company submission (CS), presents the ERG's critical 
review on the clinical and cost-effectiveness evidence in the CS, highlights the 
key methodological considerations, and describes the development of the NICE 
guidance by the Appraisal Committee. The CS included one relevant study, for the 
comparison of R2 versus rituximab monotherapy (R-mono): the AUGMENT trial. In 
addition, the company performed an unanchored indirect comparison of R2 versus 
rituximab combined with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and 
prednisolone (R-CHOP) and rituximab combined with cyclophosphamide, vincristine, 
and prednisolone (R-CVP), using data for R2 from the AUGMENT trial and pooled 
data for R-CHOP/R-CVP from the Haematological Malignancy Research Network (HMRN) 
database. During the STA process, the company provided an addendum containing 
evidence on only the FL population, in line with the marketing authorisation 
obtained at that time, which did not include MZL. The probabilistic incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) presented by the company were £27,768 per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained for R2 versus R-CHOP, £41,602 per QALY 
gained for R2 versus R-CVP, and £23,412 per QALY gained for R2 versus R-mono. 
The ERG's concerns included the validity of the unanchored comparison, the 
unavailability of a state transition model to verify the outcomes of the 
partitioned survival model, substantial uncertainty in survival curves, and 
potential over-estimation of utility values. The revised ERG base case resulted 
in ICERs ranging from £16,874 to £44,888 per QALY gained for R2 versus R-CHOP, 
from £23,135 to £59,810 per QALY gained for R2 versus R-CVP, and from £18,779 to 
£27,156 per QALY gained for R2 versus R-mono. Substantial uncertainty remained 
around these ranges. NICE recommended R2 within its marketing authorisation, as 
an option for previously treated FL (grade 1-3A) in adults, contingent on the 
company providing lenalidomide according to the commercial arrangement.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-020-00971-x
PMCID: PMC7867510
PMID: 33145711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: WW, RR, NA, SR, SD, VHC, PP, GW, XP, BR, JK, MJ, 
SG, and AvA have no conflicts of interest to declare.


569. Aging Cell. 2020 Nov;19(11):e13269. doi: 10.1111/acel.13269. Epub 2020 Nov
4.

Rapamycin-mediated mouse lifespan extension: Late-life dosage regimes with 
sex-specific effects.

Strong R(1)(2), Miller RA(3), Bogue M(4), Fernandez E(1)(2), Javors MA(5), 
Libert S(6), Marinez PA(1)(2), Murphy MP(7), Musi N(8)(9), Nelson JF(10), 
Petrascheck M(11)(12), Reifsnyder P(4), Richardson A(13)(14), Salmon AB(8)(15), 
Macchiarini F(16), Harrison DE(4).

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center and Research Service, South 
Texas Veterans Health Care System, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies 
at The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, 
TX, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology and Geriatrics Center, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, MI, USA.
(4)The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, ME, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of Texas Health Science Center at San 
Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(6)Calico Labs, South San Francisco, CA, USA.
(7)Medical Research Council Mitochondrial Biology Unit, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, UK.
(8)Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center, South Texas Veterans 
Health Care System, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(9)Department of Medicine, Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies at 
The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, 
USA.
(10)Department of Cellular and Integrative Physiology, Barshop Institute for 
Longevity and Aging Studies at The University of Texas Health Science Center at 
San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(11)Department of Molecular Medicine, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, 
CA, USA.
(12)Department of Neuroscience, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA, 
USA.
(13)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, University of Oklahoma 
Health Science Center, Oklahoma City, OK, USA.
(14)Oklahoma City VA Medical Center, Oklahoma City, OK, USA.
(15)Department of Molecular Medicine, Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging 
Studies at The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San 
Antonio, TX, USA.
(16)Division of Aging Biology, National Institute on Aging, Bethesda, MD, USA.

To see if variations in timing of rapamycin (Rapa), administered to middle aged 
mice starting at 20 months, would lead to different survival outcomes, we 
compared three dosing regimens. Initiation of Rapa at 42 ppm increased survival 
significantly in both male and female mice. Exposure to Rapa for a 3-month 
period led to significant longevity benefit in males only. Protocols in which 
each month of Rapa treatment was followed by a month without Rapa exposure were 
also effective in both sexes, though this approach was less effective than 
continuous exposure in female mice. Interpretation of these results is made more 
complicated by unanticipated variation in patterns of weight gain, prior to the 
initiation of the Rapa treatment, presumably due to the use of drug-free food 
from two different suppliers. The experimental design included tests of four 
other drugs, minocycline, β-guanidinopropionic acid, MitoQ, and 
17-dimethylaminoethylamino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin (17-DMAG), but none of these 
led to a change in survival in either sex.

© 2020 The Authors. Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.13269
PMCID: PMC7681050
PMID: 33145977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The University of Texas Health Science Center at 
San Antonio has applied for a patent, U.S. Patent Application No. 13/128,800, by 
inventors Zelton Dave Sharp and Randy Strong, for an encapsulated rapamycin 
formulation used in this paper. Under a licensing agreement between Emtora 
Biosciences (formerly Rapamycin Holdings, Inc.) and the University of Texas 
Health Science Center San Antonio, R. Strong, and Z.D. Sharp, the University is 
entitled to milestone payments and royalty on sales of microencapsulated 
rapamycin. The university has a plan for managing conflicts of interest under 
its “Policy and Procedures for Promoting Objectivity in Research by Managing, 
Reducing or Eliminating Conflicts of Interest.” Michael P. Murphy consults for 
Antipodean Pharmaceuticals Inc., which is developing MitoQ as a potential 
therapy and also holds patents in the use of MitoQ.


570. Cad Saude Publica. 2020 Oct 30;36(11):e00148920. doi:
10.1590/0102-311X00148920.  eCollection 2020.

Burden of disease from COVID-19 and its acute and chronic complications: 
reflections on measurement (DALYs) and prospects for the Brazilian Unified 
National Health System.

[Article in English, Portuguese; Abstract available in Portuguese from the 
publisher]

Campos MR(1), Schramm JMA(1), Emmerick ICM(2), Rodrigues JM(1), Avelar FG(3), 
Pimentel TG(1).

Author information:
(1)Escola Nacional de Saúde Pública Sergio Arouca, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brasil.
(2)University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, U.S.A.
(3)Escola Nacional de Saúde Pública, Universidade NOVA de Lisboa, Lisboa, 
Portugal.

COVID-19 is an acute infectious respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) caused by 
the novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. The disease is highly communicable and 
produces mild to severe symptoms, generating a high demand for intensive care 
and thousands of deaths. In March 2020, COVID-19 was declared a pandemic and has 
already surpassed five million cases and 300,000 deaths in the world. The 
natural history of the disease has still not been fully established, hindering 
the elaboration of effective clinical protocols and preventive measures. 
Nevertheless, the disease requires a systemic approach, since there is evidence 
of acute and chronic complications, in addition to the catastrophic effects on 
the population's mental health. This highlights the need for a methodology that 
more effectively captures the effect of COVID-19, considering such aspects as 
severity, duration, and the potential to generate chronic complications that 
will increase the demands on Brazilian Unified National Health System (SUS). 
DALYs, or disability-adjusted life years, are thus an extremely useful indictor 
that adds mortality, an estimate of years of life lost (YLLs), and morbidity, an 
estimate of years of life lived with disability (YLDs). This article discusses 
the relevance and difficulties of studying the burden of COVID-19 and its 
complications in the Brazilian context, highlighting the natural history of the 
disease and estimating indicators such as YLDs, considering the high burden of 
disease in planning strategies to deal with the consequences of COVID-19 after 
the pandemic. The article also discusses the future challenges to deal with the 
disease in the SUS and the effects on the calculation of DALYs.

Publisher: A COVID-19 é uma síndrome respiratória aguda grave (SRAG) infecciosa, 
causada por coronavírus. A doença tem alta transmissibilidade e ocasiona 
sintomas leves a graves, gerando elevada demanda por cuidados intensivos e 
milhares de óbitos. Em março de 2020, a COVID-19 foi caracterizada como pandemia 
e já soma mais de 5 milhões de casos e 300 mil óbitos pelo mundo. A história 
natural da doença ainda não é bem estabelecida, dificultando a elaboração de 
protocolos clínicos eficazes e medidas de prevenção. Apesar disso, pode-se 
afirmar que é uma doença de abordagem sistêmica, já que há evidências de 
complicações agudas e crônicas, além de efeitos catastróficos na saúde mental da 
população. Destaca-se então a necessidade de uma metodologia que capte de forma 
mais efetiva os efeitos da COVID-19, considerando aspectos como sua gravidade, 
duração e potencial de gerar complicações crônicas que aumentarão as demandas no 
Sistema Único de Saúde (SUS). Nesse sentido, é de extrema utilidade o indicador 
DALY, ou anos de vida perdidos por morte prematura ajustados por incapacidade 
(DALY), que agrega a (1) mortalidade - estimativa dos anos de vida perdidos 
(YLL) e (2) morbidade - estimativa dos anos vividos com incapacidade (YLD). Este 
artigo discute a relevância e as dificuldades de estudar a carga da COVID-19 e 
de suas complicações, no contexto brasileiro, ressaltando a importância de 
caracterizar a história natural da doença e estimar indicadores como o YLD, que 
considerem a alta carga de morbidade no planejamento de estratégias para lidar 
com as consequências da COVID-19 pós-pandemia. Discute-se também os desafios 
futuros para o enfrentamento da doença no SUS e reflexões sobre o cálculo do 
DALY.

Publisher: La COVID-19 es un síndrome respiratorio agudo grave (SRAG) 
infeccioso, causado por coronavirus. La enfermedad posee una alta 
transmisibilidad y ocasiona de síntomas leves a graves, generando una elevada 
demanda de cuidados intensivos y millares de fallecimientos. En marzo de 2020, 
la COVID-19 se caracterizó como pandemia y ya suma más de 5 millones de casos y 
300 mil fallecimientos por el mundo. La historia natural de la enfermedad 
todavía no ha sido bien establecida, dificultando la elaboración de protocolos 
clínicos eficaces y medidas de prevención. A pesar de eso, se puede afirmar que 
es una enfermedad de abordaje sistémico, ya que existen evidencias sobre 
complicaciones agudas y crónicas, además de efectos catastróficos en la salud 
mental de la población. Se destaca entonces la necesidad de una metodología que 
capte de forma más efectiva los efectos de la COVID-19, considerando aspectos 
como su gravedad, duración, potencial de generar complicaciones crónicas que 
aumentarán las demandas en el Sistema Único de Salud (SUS). En este sentido, es 
de extrema utilidad el indicador DALY o años de vida perdidos por muerte 
prematura ajustados por incapacidad, que agrega la (1) mortalidad - estimación 
de los años de vida perdidos (YLL) y (2) morbilidad - estimación de los años 
vividos con incapacidad (YLD). Este artículo discute la relevancia y las 
dificultades de estudiar la carga de la COVID-19 y sus complicaciones, en el 
contexto brasileño, resaltando la importancia de caracterizar la historia 
natural de la enfermedad y estimar indicadores como el YLD, que consideren la 
alta carga de morbilidad en la planificación de estrategias para lidiar con las 
consecuencias de la COVID-19 pospandemia. Se discuten también los desafíos 
futuros para el combate de la enfermedad en el SUS y reflexiones sobre el 
cálculo del DALY.

DOI: 10.1590/0102-311X00148920
PMID: 33146278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. JAMA Netw Open. 2020 Nov 2;3(11):e2024329. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2020.24329.

Association of Neighborhood Deprivation With Epigenetic Aging Using 4 Clock 
Metrics.

Lawrence KG(1), Kresovich JK(1), O'Brien KM(1), Hoang TT(1), Xu Z(1), Taylor 
JA(1)(2), Sandler DP(1).

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology Branch, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, 
National Institutes of Health, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina.
(2)Epigenetic and Stem Cell Biology Laboratory, National Institute of 
Environmental Health Sciences, National Institutes of Health, Research Triangle 
Park, North Carolina.

IMPORTANCE: Neighborhood deprivation is associated with age-related disease, 
mortality, and reduced life expectancy. However, biological pathways underlying 
these associations are not well understood.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the association between neighborhood deprivation and 
epigenetic measures of age acceleration and genome-wide methylation.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This cross-sectional study used data from the 
Sister Study, a prospective cohort study comprising 50 884 women living in the 
US and Puerto Rico aged 35 to 74 years at enrollment who had a sister with 
breast cancer but had not had breast cancer themselves. Cohort enrollment 
occurred between July 2003 and March 2009. Participants completed a 
computer-assisted telephone interview on demographic, socioeconomic, lifestyle, 
and residential factors and provided anthropometric measures and peripheral 
blood samples at a home examination. DNA methylation data obtained for 2630 
non-Hispanic White women selected for a case-cohort study in 2014 were used in 
this cross-sectional analysis. DNA methylation was measured using the 
HumanMethylation450 BeadChips in whole blood samples collected at baseline. Data 
analysis for this study was performed from October 17, 2019, to August 27, 2020.
EXPOSURES: Each participants' primary address was linked to an established index 
of neighborhood deprivation.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Epigenetic age was estimated using 4 epigenetic 
clocks (Horvath, Hannum, PhenoAge, and GrimAge). Age acceleration was determined 
using residuals from regressing chronologic age on each of the 4 epigenetic age 
metrics. Linear regression was used to estimate associations between 
neighborhood deprivation and epigenetic age acceleration as well as DNA 
methylation at individual cytosine-guanine sites across the genome.
RESULTS: Mean (SD) age of the 2630 participants was 56.9 (8.7) years. Those with 
the greatest (>75th percentile) vs least (≤25th percentile) neighborhood 
deprivation had higher epigenetic age acceleration estimated by Hannum 
(β = 0.23; 95% CI, 0.01-0.45), PhenoAge (β = 0.28; 95% CI, 0.06-.50), and 
GrimAge (β = 0.37; 95% CI, 0.12-0.62). Increasing US quartiles of neighborhood 
deprivation exhibited a trend with Hannum, PhenoAge, and GrimAge. For example, 
GrimAge showed a significant dose-response (P test for trend <.001) as follows: 
level 2 vs level 1 (β = 0.30; 95% CI, 0.17-0.42), level 3 vs level 1 (β = 0.35; 
95% CI, 0.19-0.50), and level 4 vs level 1 (β = 0.37; 95% CI, 0.12-0.62). 
Neighborhood deprivation was found to be associated with 3 
cytosine-phosphate-guanine sites, with 1 of these annotated to a known gene MAOB 
(P = 9.71 × 10-08).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The findings of this study suggest that residing in a 
neighborhood with a higher deprivation index appears to be reflected by 
methylation-based markers of aging.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2020.24329
PMCID: PMC7643028
PMID: 33146735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None reported.


572. Biochemistry. 2020 Nov 17;59(45):4344-4352. doi:
10.1021/acs.biochem.0c00543.  Epub 2020 Nov 4.

New Mechanism of Gemcitabine and Its Phosphates: DNA Polymerization Disruption 
via 3'-5' Exonuclease Inhibition.

Yang S(1), Luo D(2)(3), Li N(1), Li C(1), Tang S(1), Huang Z(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Bio-Resource and Eco-environment of Ministry of Education, 
College of Life Sciences, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan 610064, P. R. 
China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy and Cancer Center, West China Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan 610041, P. R. China.
(3)Szostak-CDHT Institute for Large Nucleic Acids, Chengdu, Sichuan 610041, P. 
R. China.

Gemcitabine (dFdC), a modified deoxycytidine (dC) widely used in tumor 
treatment, is a prodrug that is phosphorylated to generate mono-, di-, and 
triphosphates. The triphosphate (dFdCTP) is incorporated into DNA to terminate 
DNA synthesis in cancer. Some incorporated dFdC nucleotides can be partially 
removed by the 3'-5' exonuclease activity, namely its editing function, and the 
others escape the editing. However, whether there is an active mechanism for 
dFdC to escape the editing remains unclear. We have first discovered that unlike 
dFdC, its mono-, di-, and triphosphates can inhibit the 3'-5' exonuclease of DNA 
polymerase I, suppress editing, and allow the active escaping mechanism, whereas 
its polymerase activity is not remarkably affected. As such, these phosphates 
can prevent the removal of the incorporated dFdC residue, thereby actively 
blocking DNA extension and synthesis. The inhibition efficiency of these 
phosphates follows the increased order of the mono-, di-, and triphosphates of 
gemcitabine (dFdC < dFdCMP < dFdCDP < dFdCTP). In addition, after the deletion 
of the 3'-5' exonuclease of cellular DNA polymerase I, the Escherichia coli 
mutant is more sensitive to dFdCTP than is wild-type E. coli. Our new discovery 
of the ability of these dFdC phosphates to inhibit exonuclease activity suggests 
a novel anticancer mechanism of gemcitabine and its phosphate derivatives.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.biochem.0c00543
PMID: 33147009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Burns. 2021 Feb;47(1):52-57. doi: 10.1016/j.burns.2020.09.004. Epub 2020 Oct
3.

Burn Unit admission and management protocol during COVID-19 pandemic.

Azzena B(1), Perozzo FAG(2), De Lazzari A(3), Valotto G(4), Pontini A(5).

Author information:
(1)Burn Unit, Plastic Surgery, Padua University Hospital, Via Giustiniani 2, 
Padua, Italy. Electronic address: bruno.azzena@aopd.veneto.it.
(2)Burn Unit, Plastic Surgery, Padua University Hospital, Via Giustiniani 2, 
Padua, Italy. Electronic address: filippoandreagiovanni.perozzo@aopd.veneto.it.
(3)Burn Unit, Plastic Surgery, Padua University Hospital, Via Giustiniani 2, 
Padua, Italy. Electronic address: alberto.delazzari@aopd.veneto.it.
(4)1st Surgical Ward, Padua University Hospital, Via Giustiniani 2, Padua, 
Italy. Electronic address: giovanni.valotto@aopd.veneto.it.
(5)Burn Unit, Plastic Surgery, Padua University Hospital, Via Giustiniani 2, 
Padua, Italy. Electronic address: alex.pontini@aopd.veneto.it.

BACKGROUND: The actual epidemic outbreak is the third time in the last two 
decades in which a coronavirus results in a major global spread with serious 
consequences in terms of vastity of affected patients, life losses, health 
system organization efforts and socio-economic implications. Lacking effective 
therapies and vaccinations, during viral outbreak the major and most incisive 
mean for viral spread control is spread prevention, especially for the fragile 
burn-injured patients we are called to care for in Burn Units.
METHODS: We developed an admission and inpatient management protocol to preserve 
burn patients from SARS-CoV-2 contagion, in order to avoid additional morbidity 
and mortality in patients with already compromised health conditions. Data from 
burn-injured patients admitted to our Unit following this new protocol were 
retrospectively analyzed in order to verify its effectiveness in prevention of 
viral spread.
RESULTS: From the 8th of March to the 8th of June, we admitted 18 patients in 
the Burn Unit ICU and semi-ICU and 17 patients in the Burn Ward. Two of them 
resulted positive to COVID-19 nasopharyngeal swab and bronchoalveolar lavage 
collected immediately on admission, for both the extension of burns and their 
general clinical conditions implied ICU admission. Moreover, a caregiver of an 
admitted child resulted positive to the nasopharyngeal swab. No other cases of 
SARS-CoV-2 positivity have been reported neither between hospitalized patients 
nor between healthcare workers.
CONCLUSION: The evidence of high ICU admission rate and high mortality in 
patients affected by SARS-CoV-2 combined with the fragile clinical conditions of 
burn patients required the development of an admission and hospitalization 
management protocol.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd and ISBI. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.burns.2020.09.004
PMCID: PMC7532770
PMID: 33148487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Heart. 2021 Jun;107(11):881-887. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2020-317656. Epub
2020  Nov 4.

Trends of global burden of atrial fibrillation/flutter from Global Burden of 
Disease Study 2017.

Wang L(1)(2), Ze F(3), Li J(4), Mi L(5), Han B(6), Niu H(7), Zhao N(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Shaanxi Provincial People's Hospital, 
Xi'an, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Xi'an Ninth Hospital Affiliated to Medical College 
of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, China.
(3)Department of Cardiac Electrophysiology, Peking University People's Hospital, 
Beijing, China.
(4)Department of Cardiology, Tangdu Hospital, Airforce Military Medical 
University, Xi'an, China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis and Translational Research (Ministry of 
Education), Department of Lymphoma, Peking University Cancer Hospital & 
Institute, Beijing, China.
(6)Department of Cardiology, The First Hospital of Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, 
China.
(7)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Shenzhen University General Hospital, 
Shenzhen, China.
(8)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Shaanxi Provincial People's Hospital, 
Xi'an, China 173307845@qq.com.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to estimate the global burden of atrial 
fibrillation/atrial flutter (AF/AFL).
METHODS: We retrieved data from the Global Health Data Exchange query tool and 
estimated the age-standardised rates (ASRs) of prevalence, incidence and 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) of AF/AFL, as well as the population 
attributable fraction (PAF) of risk factors contributing to DALYs. ASRs and 
sociodemographic index (SDI) were assessed using Pearson's correlation 
coefficients.
RESULTS: In 2017, there were 37.6 million (95% uncertainty interval (UI) 32.5 to 
42.6 million) individuals with AF/AFL globally. The prevalence rates increased 
with increased SDI values in most regions for all years. Men had a higher 
prevalence than women across all regions except for China. From 1990 to 2017, 
global prevalence rate decreased by 5.08% (95% UI -6.24% to -3.82%), with the 
largest decrease noted in the region with high SDI values. The global DALYs rate 
declined by 2.53% (95% UI -4.16 to -0.29). PAF of elevated systolic blood 
pressure for attributable DALYs accounted for the highest percentage, followed 
by high body mass index, alcohol use, high-sodium diet, smoking and lead 
exposure.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the ASRs of prevalence, incidence and DALYs decreased from 
1990 to 2017, the absolute number of patients with AF/AFL, annual number of new 
AF/AFL cases and DALYs lost due to AF/AFL increased. This indicates that the 
burden of AF/AFL is likely to remain high. Systematic surveillance is needed to 
better identify and manage AF/AFL so as to prevent its various risk factors and 
complications.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2020-317656
PMID: 33148545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


575. Drug Metab Dispos. 2021 Jan;49(1):53-61. doi: 10.1124/dmd.120.000161. Epub
2020  Nov 4.

Extension of the Mechanistic Tissue Distribution Model of Rodgers and Rowland by 
Systematic Incorporation of Lysosomal Trapping: Impact on Unbound Partition 
Coefficient and Volume of Distribution Predictions in the Rat.

Schmitt MV(1), Reichel A(1), Liu X(1), Fricker G(1), Lienau P(2).

Author information:
(1)Bayer AG, Pharmaceuticals R&D, Translational Sciences, Research 
Pharmacokinetics, Berlin, Germany (M.V.S., A.R., P.L.); School of Life Sciences, 
Tsinghua University, Beijing, China (X.L.); and Institute of Pharmacy and 
Molecular Biotechnology, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany (M.V.S., 
G.F.).
(2)Bayer AG, Pharmaceuticals R&D, Translational Sciences, Research 
Pharmacokinetics, Berlin, Germany (M.V.S., A.R., P.L.); School of Life Sciences, 
Tsinghua University, Beijing, China (X.L.); and Institute of Pharmacy and 
Molecular Biotechnology, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany (M.V.S., 
G.F.) philip.lienau@bayer.com.

Physiologically based pharmacokinetic modeling has become a standard tool to 
predict drug distribution in early stages of drug discovery; however, this does 
not currently encompass lysosomal trapping. For basic lipophilic compounds, 
lysosomal sequestration is known to potentially influence intracellular as well 
as tissue distribution. The aim of our research was to reliably predict the 
lysosomal drug content and ultimately integrate this mechanism into 
pharmacokinetic prediction models. First, we further validated our previously 
presented method to predict the lysosomal drug content (Schmitt et al., 2019) 
for a larger set of compounds (n = 41) showing a very good predictivity. Using 
the lysosomal marker lipid bis(monoacylglycero)phosphate, we estimated the 
lysosomal volume fraction for all major tissues in the rat, ranging from 0.03% 
for adipose up to 5.3% for spleen. The pH-driven lysosomal trapping was then 
estimated and fully integrated into the mechanistic distribution model published 
by Rodgers et al. (2005) Predictions of Kpu improved for all lysosome-rich 
tissues. For instance, Kpu increased for nicotine 4-fold (spleen) and 2-fold 
(lung and kidney) and for quinidine 1.8-fold (brain), although for most other 
drugs the effects were much less (≤7%). Overall, the effect was strongest for 
basic compounds with a lower lipophilicity, such as nicotine, for which the 
unbound volume of distribution at steady-state prediction changed from 1.34 to 
1.58 l/kg. For more lipophilic (basic) compounds or those that already show 
strong interactions with acidic phospholipids, the additional contribution of 
lysosomal trapping was less pronounced. Nevertheless, lysosomal trapping will 
also affect intracellular distribution of such compounds. SIGNIFICANCE 
STATEMENT: The estimation of the lysosomal content in all body tissues 
facilitated the incorporation of lysosomal sequestration into a general 
physiologically based pharmacokinetic model, leading to improved predictions as 
well as elucidating its influence on tissue and subcellular distribution in the 
rat.

Copyright © 2020 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental 
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.120.000161
PMID: 33148688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. BMJ Open. 2020 Nov 4;10(11):e037725. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-037725.

Intensive care units follow-up: a scoping review protocol.

Prevedello D(1), Fiore M(2), Creteur J(2), Preiser JC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Intensive Care Medicine, Erasme University Hospital, Brussels, 
Belgium danielle.prevedello@erasme.ulb.ac.be.
(2)Department of Intensive Care Medicine, Erasme University Hospital, Brussels, 
Belgium.

INTRODUCTION: Increasing numbers of patients are surviving critical illness, 
leading to growing concern about the potential impact of the long-term 
consequences of intensive care on patients, families and society as a whole. 
These long-term effects are together known as postintensive care syndrome and 
their presence can be evaluated at intensive care unit (ICU) follow-up 
consultations. However, the services provided by these consultations vary across 
hospitals and units, in part because there is no validated standard model to 
evaluate patients and their quality of life after ICU discharge. We describe a 
protocol for a scoping review focusing on models of ICU follow-up and the impact 
of such strategies on improving patient quality of life.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: In this scoping review, we will search the literature 
systematically using electronic databases (MEDLINE - from database inception to 
June 15th 2020) and a grey literature search. We will involve stakeholders as 
recommended by the Joanna Briggs Institute approach developed by Peters et al. 
The research will be conducted in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items 
for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews 
guidelines.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This study does not require ethics approval, because 
data will be obtained through a review of published primary studies. The results 
of our evaluation will be published in a peer-reviewed journal and will also be 
disseminated through presentations at national and international conferences.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-037725
PMCID: PMC7643502
PMID: 33148730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


577. BMJ Open. 2020 Nov 3;10(11):e043560. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-043560.

COVID-19 case-fatality rate and demographic and socioeconomic influencers: 
worldwide spatial regression analysis based on country-level data.

Cao Y(1)(2), Hiyoshi A(3)(4), Montgomery S(3)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Universitetssjukhuset Örebro, School 
of Medical Sciences, Örebro University, Örebro, Sweden yang.cao@oru.se.
(2)Unit of Integrative Epidemiology, Institute of Environmental Medicine, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Universitetssjukhuset Örebro, School 
of Medical Sciences, Örebro University, Örebro, Sweden.
(4)Department of Public Health Sciences, Stockholm University, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(5)Clinical Epidemiology Division, Department of Medicine, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(6)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London, 
London, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the influence of demographic and socioeconomic factors 
on the COVID-19 case-fatality rate (CFR) globally.
DESIGN: Publicly available register-based ecological study.
SETTING: Two hundred and nine countries/territories in the world.
PARTICIPANTS: Aggregated data including 10 445 656 confirmed COVID-19 cases.
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: COVID-19 CFR and crude cause-specific 
death rate were calculated using country-level data from the Our World in Data 
website.
RESULTS: The average of country/territory-specific COVID-19 CFR is about 
2%-3% worldwide and higher than previously reported at 0.7%-1.3%. A doubling in 
size of a population is associated with a 0.48% (95% CI 0.25% to 0.70%) increase 
in COVID-19 CFR, and a doubling in the proportion of female smokers is 
associated with a 0.55% (95% CI 0.09% to 1.02%) increase in COVID-19 CFR. The 
open testing policies are associated with a 2.23% (95% CI 0.21% to 4.25%) 
decrease in CFR. The strictness of anti-COVID-19 measures was not statistically 
significantly associated with CFR overall, but the higher Stringency Index was 
associated with higher CFR in higher-income countries with active testing 
policies (regression coefficient beta=0.14, 95% CI 0.01 to 0.27). Inverse 
associations were found between cardiovascular disease death rate and diabetes 
prevalence and CFR.
CONCLUSION: The association between population size and COVID-19 CFR may imply 
the healthcare strain and lower treatment efficiency in countries with large 
populations. The observed association between smoking in women and COVID-19 CFR 
might be due to the finding that the proportion of female smokers reflected 
broadly the income level of a country. When testing is warranted and healthcare 
resources are sufficient, strict quarantine and/or lockdown measures might 
result in excess deaths in underprivileged populations. Spatial dependence and 
temporal trends in the data should be taken into account in global joint 
strategy and/or policy making against the COVID-19 pandemic.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-043560
PMCID: PMC7640588
PMID: 33148769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


578. J Med Ethics. 2021 Nov;47(11):719-721. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2020-106573.
Epub  2020 Nov 4.

Pre-diabetes in the elderly and the see-saw model of paternalism.

Burch P(1), Holm S(2).

