strategy were those related with HCC risk (HBV DNA levels, platelet counts and 
age) and drug cost.
CONCLUSION: Starting antiviral therapy in IT phase is cost-effective compared 
with delaying the treatment until the active hepatitis phase in CHB patients, 
especially with increasing HCC risk, decreasing drug costs and consideration of 
productivity loss.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2020-321309
PMID: 33239344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Y-SL is an advisory board 
member of Bayer Healthcare and Gilead Sciences. Y-SL also receives research 
funding from Bayer Healthcare and Gilead Sciences.


877. J Sports Sci Med. 2020 Nov 19;19(4):695-702. eCollection 2020 Dec.

Beneficial Effects of Yoga Stretching on Salivary Stress Hormones and 
Parasympathetic Nerve Activity.

Eda N(1)(2), Ito H(2)(3), Akama T(4).

Author information:
(1)Japan Institute of Sports Sciences, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Waseda Institute for Sport Sciences, Waseda University, Saitama, Japan.
(3)Japan Sports Science Inc, Shizuoka, Japan.
(4)Faculty of Sport Sciences, Waseda University, Saitama, Japan.

This study aimed to determine the effect of yoga stretching on salivary stress 
hormones and cardiac autonomic nervous system. To our knowledge, this study is 
the first to investigate changes in cardiac autonomic nervous system after yoga 
stretching. In this crossover design study, 10 adult men (age, 26.3 ± 2.5 years) 
without yoga experience participated in the rest and yoga trials for 90 min. 
Measurements were carried out before (pre), immediately (post), 60 min, and 120 
min after rest or yoga stretching. Saliva samples were collected by chewing a 
sterile cotton ball at a frequency of 60 cycles per minute. Salivary cortisol 
and testosterone concentrations were measured using an enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay. With the subjects in the sitting position, heart rate 
variability was measured using pulse analyzer plus for 150 seconds. As regards 
rate changes, salivary testosterone level tended to increase (p = 0.088), 
testosterone/cortisol ratio significantly increased (p < 0.05), and cortisol 
level significantly decreased (p < 0.05) at 120 min after yoga stretching. The 
square root of the mean-squared differences of successive normal-to-normal 
intervals and natural logarithm high-frequency component, which are indicators 
of parasympathetic nerve activity, increased at 60 min (p < 0.05) and 120 min (p 
< 0.05) in the yoga trial, respectively. In conclusion, yoga stretching can 
enhance parasympathetic nerve activity and improve stress hormones. Therefore, 
yoga stretching may be useful to compensate for physical inactivity and increase 
life expectancy in the general population.

© Journal of Sports Science and Medicine.

PMCID: PMC7675619
PMID: 33239943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2020 Nov 2;20(12):1-134. eCollection 2020.

Home Narrowband Ultraviolet B Phototherapy for Photoresponsive Skin Conditions: 
A Health Technology Assessment.

Ontario Health (Quality).

Collaborators: Kabali C, Cheng L, Li C, Ali A, Walter M.

BACKGROUND: Skin conditions are photoresponsive if they respond to ultraviolet 
(UV) radiation with partial or complete clearing. Ultraviolet phototherapy is 
performed by exposing the skin to UV radiation on a regular basis under medical 
supervision. Three types of UV radiation are used to treat photoresponsive skin 
conditions: broadband ultraviolet B (BB-UVB), psoralen plus ultraviolet A 
(PUVA), and narrowband ultraviolet B (NB-UVB). Narrowband UVB phototherapy is 
generally more effective than BB-UVB and safer than PUVA in the management of 
several photoresponsive skin conditions. While typically performed in an 
outpatient clinic setting, home NB-UVB phototherapy may be a viable option for 
people with limited access to outpatient treatment. We conducted a health 
technology assessment of home NB-UVB phototherapy for people with 
photoresponsive skin conditions that included an evaluation of the 
effectiveness, safety, cost-effectiveness, and budget impact of publicly funding 
home NB-UVB phototherapy, and patient preferences and values.
METHODS: We performed a systematic literature search of the clinical evidence. 
We assessed the risk of bias of each included study using version 2 of the 
Cochrane risk-of-bias tool for randomized studies, and we assessed the quality 
of the body of evidence according to the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, 
Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) Working Group criteria. We performed a 
systematic economic literature search and conducted a cost-utility analysis with 
a 10-year horizon from a public payer perspective. The cost-utility analysis was 
conducted for psoriasis based on the available clinical evidence. We also 
analyzed the budget impact of publicly funding home NB-UVB phototherapy in 
people with photoresponsive skin conditions in Ontario. To contextualize the 
potential value of NB-UVB phototherapy, we spoke with people with 
photoresponsive skin conditions.
RESULTS: We included one randomized controlled trial in the clinical evidence 
review. We found that home NB-UVB phototherapy is at least as effective as 
outpatient clinic NB-UVB phototherapy for the treatment of mild to severe 
psoriasis (the only photoresponsive skin condition investigated in the included 
study). In the included study, 82% of participants were treated at home, 
compared with 79% treated in an outpatient clinic setting (many participants had 
experience with both treatment settings). They demonstrated an improvement in 
baseline Psoriasis Area and Severity Index 50 (mean difference 2.8%, 95% 
confidence interval -8.6% to 14.2%), with the mean difference exceeding the 
preset noninferiority margin of -15%. Similar results were observed for other 
psoriasis area and severity indices (GRADE: Moderate). Episodes of mild 
erythema, burning sensation, severe erythema, and blistering were reported in 
both treatment groups, but were too few to allow a comparative safety assessment 
(GRADE: Low).The primary economic evaluation showed that home NB-UVB 
phototherapy is more costly (incremental cost $4,509) and has higher 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs; incremental QALY 0.29) than outpatient 
clinic NB-UVB. Our best estimate of the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
home NB-UVB compared with outpatient clinic NB-UVB is $15,675 per QALY gained. 
The probability of home NB-UVB being cost-effective versus outpatient clinic 
NB-UVB is 77% at a willingness-to-pay of $50,000 per QALY gained. Publicly 
funding home NB-UVB phototherapy in the psoriasis population would lead to about 
$0.7 million each year and a total 5-year net budget impact of about $3.3 
million. Publicly funding home treatment for people with photoresponsive skin 
conditions would lead to about $1.3 million each year and a total 5-year net 
budget impact of $6.3 million; however, this scenario accounted for the cost of 
phototherapy only (it did not include treatment-specific medical costs for 
conditions other than psoriasis).People with photoresponsive skin conditions 
with whom we spoke viewed home NB-UVB phototherapy as beneficial for those with 
health conditions that make it difficult to travel, for those with busy 
schedules, and for those who may not have the means to pay for travel to 
clinics.
CONCLUSIONS: Home NB-UVB phototherapy is at least as effective as outpatient 
clinic NB-UVB phototherapy for the treatment of mild to severe psoriasis (GRADE: 
Moderate). We are uncertain if adverse events happen more often or less often 
with home NB-UVB phototherapy than outpatient clinic NB-UVB phototherapy (GRADE: 
Low).Home NB-UVB phototherapy has an ICER of $15,675 per QALY gained, and the 
probability of home NB-UVB phototherapy being cost-effective is 77% at a 
willingness-to-pay of $50,000 per QALY gained. When accounting for the cost of 
phototherapy and other psoriasis-specific treatment costs (e.g., physician 
visits and adjuvant treatments), publicly funding home NB-UVB phototherapy in 
the psoriasis population would lead to a total 5-year net budget impact of about 
$3.3 million. Funding home NB-UVB phototherapy to people with photoresponsive 
skin conditions would lead to a total 5-year net budget impact of $6.3 
million.People with photoresponsive skin conditions with whom we spoke viewed 
both outpatient clinic and home NB-UVB phototherapy to be effective treatment 
options.

Copyright © Queen's Printer for Ontario, 2020.

PMCID: PMC7668536
PMID: 33240453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2020 Nov 2;20(14):1-148. eCollection 2020.

Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation in Patients With Severe Aortic Valve 
Stenosis at Low Surgical Risk: A Health Technology Assessment.

Ontario Health (Quality).

Collaborators: Costa V, Wang M, Falk L, Tiggelaar S, Wells D, Walter M, 
Holubowich C.

BACKGROUND: Surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) is the conventional 
treatment for patients with severe aortic valve stenosis at low surgical risk. 
Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is a less invasive procedure. We 
conducted a health technology assessment (HTA) of TAVI for patients with severe 
aortic valve stenosis at low surgical risk, which included an evaluation of 
effectiveness, safety, cost-effectiveness, the budget impact of publicly funding 
TAVI, and patient preferences and values.
METHODS: We used the 2016 Health Quality Ontario HTA on TAVI2 as a source of 
eligible studies and performed a systematic literature search for studies 
published since the 2016 review. Eligible primary studies identified both 
through the 2016 HTA and through our complementary literature search were used 
in a de novo analysis. We assessed the risk of bias of each included study using 
the Cochrane risk-of-bias tool and the quality of the body of evidence according 
to the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation 
(GRADE) Working Group criteria.An applicable, previously conducted 
cost-effectiveness analysis was available, so we did not conduct a primary 
economic evaluation. We analyzed the budget impact of publicly funding TAVI in 
people at low surgical risk in Ontario. We also performed a literature survey of 
the quantitative evidence of preferences and values of patients for TAVI. The 
Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health (CADTH) conducted a review 
to evaluate the qualitative literature on patient and provider preferences and 
values for TAVI. To contextualize the potential value of TAVI, we spoke with 
people with severe aortic valve stenosis.
RESULTS: We identified two randomized controlled trials that compared TAVI 
(transfemoral route) and SAVR in patients with severe aortic valve stenosis at 
low surgical risk. Both studies have an ongoing follow-up of 10 years, but 
1-year and limited 2-year follow-up results are currently available. At 30 days, 
compared with SAVR, TAVI had a slightly lower risk of mortality (risk difference 
-0.8%, 95% confidence interval [CI] -1.5% to -0.1%, GRADE: Moderate) and 
disabling stroke (risk difference -0.8%, 95% CI -1.8% to -0.2%, GRADE: 
Moderate), and resulted in more patients with symptom improvement (risk 
difference 11.8%, 95% CI 8.2% to 15.5%, GRADE: High) and in a greater 
improvement in quality of life (GRADE: High). At 1 year, TAVI and SAVR were 
similar with regard to mortality (GRADE: Low), although TAVI may result in a 
slightly lower risk of disabling stroke (GRADE: Moderate). Both TAVI and SAVR 
resulted in a similar improvement in symptoms and quality of life at 1 year 
(GRADE: Moderate). Compared with SAVR, TAVI had a higher risk of some 
complications and a lower risk of others.Device-related costs for TAVI (about 
$25,000) are higher than for SAVR (about $6,000). A published cost-effectiveness 
analysis conducted from an Ontario Ministry of Health perspective showed TAVI to 
be more expensive and, on average, slightly more effective (i.e., it was 
associated with more quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]) than SAVR. Compared 
with SAVR, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were $27,196 per 
QALY and $59,641 per QALY for balloon-expandable and self-expanding TAVI, 
respectively. Balloon-expandable TAVI was less costly (by $2,330 on average) and 
slightly more effective (by 0.02 QALY on average) than self-expanding TAVI. 
Among the three interventions, balloon-expandable TAVI had the highest 
probability of being cost-effective. It was the preferred option in 53% and 59% 
of model iterations, at willingness-to-pay values of $50,000 and $100,000 per 
QALY, respectively. Self-expanding TAVI was preferred in less than 10% of 
iterations. The budget impact of publicly funding TAVI in Ontario is estimated 
to be an additional $5 to $8 million each year for the next 5 years. The budget 
impact could be significantly reduced with reductions in the device price.We did 
not find any quantitative or qualitative evidence on patient preferences and 
values specific to the low-risk surgical group. Among a mixed or generally 
high-risk and population, people typically preferred the less invasive nature 
and the faster recovery time of TAVI compared with SAVR, and people were 
satisfied with the TAVI procedure. Patients with severe aortic valve stenosis at 
low surgical risk and their caregivers perceived that TAVI minimized pain and 
recovery time. Most patients who had TAVI returned to their usual activities 
more quickly than they would have if they had had SAVR. Our direct patient and 
caregiver consultations indicated a preference for TAVI over SAVR.
CONCLUSIONS: Both TAVI (transfemoral route) and SAVR resulted in improved 
patient symptoms and quality of life during the 1 year of follow-up. The TAVI 
procedure is less invasive and resulted in greater symptom improvement and 
quality of life than SAVR 30 days after surgery. The TAVI procedure also 
resulted in a small improvement in mortality and disabling stroke at 30 days. At 
1 year, TAVI and SAVR were similar with regard to mortality, although TAVI may 
result in a slightly lower risk of disabling stroke. According to the study 
authors, longer follow-up is needed to better understand how long TAVI valves 
last and to draw definitive conclusions on the long-term outcomes of TAVI 
compared with SAVR beyond 1 year.The TAVI procedure might be cost-effective for 
patients at low surgical risk; however, there is some uncertainty in this 
result. We estimated that the additional cost to provide public funding for TAVI 
in people with severe aortic valve stenosis at low surgical risk would range 
from about $5 million to $8 million over the next 5 years.Among a mixed or 
generally high-risk population, people typically preferred the less invasive 
nature and the faster recovery time of TAVI compared with SAVR.

Copyright © Queen's Printer for Ontario, 2020.

PMCID: PMC7670297
PMID: 33240455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2020 Nov 2;20(15):1-160. eCollection 2020.

Noninvasive Fetal RhD Blood Group Genotyping: A Health Technology Assessment.

Ontario Health (Quality).

Collaborators: Schaink A, Gajic-Veljanoski O, Li C, Guo J, Wells D, Higgins C.

BACKGROUND: RhD blood group incompatibility during pregnancy can cause serious 
health problems for the fetus. Noninvasive fetal RhD blood group genotyping is a 
test for fetal RhD status that may help prevent unnecessary preventive treatment 
(Rh immunoglobulin [RhIG] injections) and intensive pregnancy monitoring. We 
conducted a health technology assessment of noninvasive fetal RhD blood group 
genotyping for RhD-negative (RhD-) pregnancies. Our assessment evaluated the 
test's diagnostic accuracy, clinical utility, and cost-effectiveness, the budget 
impact of publicly funding this test, and patients' and providers' preferences 
and values.
METHODS: We performed a systematic literature search of the clinical and 
economic evidence to conduct an overview of reviews for test accuracy, a 
systematic review for clinical utility, and a review of the test's 
cost-effectiveness compared with usual care. We assessed the risk of bias of 
each included systematic review and study using the ROBIS and RoBANs tools, 
respectively. We assessed the quality of the body of clinical evidence according 
to the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation 
(GRADE) Working Group criteria. We developed probabilistic Markov 
microsimulation models to determine the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of 
noninvasive fetal RhD genotyping compared with usual care from the Ontario 
Ministry of Health perspective. We also estimated the 5-year budget impact of 
publicly funding this test in Ontario. To examine patient and provider 
preferences related to noninvasive fetal RhD genotyping, we conducted a 
literature survey of quantitative studies on preference; the Canadian Agency for 
Drugs and Technologies in Health (CADTH) performed a review of qualitative 
literature about patient preferences; and we conducted interviews and an online 
survey with Ontario patients.
RESULTS: We included six systematic reviews in the overview of reviews on 
diagnostic test accuracy and 11 studies in the clinical utility review. Across 
systematic reviews, test accuracy was high for noninvasive fetal RhD genotyping. 
The evidence suggests that implementation of noninvasive fetal RhD genotyping 
may lead to avoidance of unnecessary RhIG prophylaxis (GRADE: Low), good 
compliance with targeted RhIG prophylaxis (GRADE: Very low), and high uptake of 
genotyping (GRADE: Low). Alloimmunization may not increase when using 
noninvasive fetal RhD genotyping to target prenatal RhIG prophylaxis (GRADE: 
Very low), and may allow unnecessary monitoring and invasive procedures to be 
avoided in alloimmunized pregnancies (GRADE: Very low).We included eight 
published economic studies that reported inconsistent results regarding the 
cost-effectiveness of noninvasive fetal RhD genotyping. In nonalloimmunized RhD- 
pregnancies, compared with usual care, the intervention identified more maternal 
alloimmunization cases (probability: 0.0022 vs. 0.0020) and was associated with 
a reduced number of RhIG injections per pregnancy (1.79 vs 1.43). It was more 
expensive ($154, 95% credible interval [CrI] $139 to $169) but had little impact 
on the QALYs of newborns followed over a 10-year time horizon (0.0007, 95% CrI 
-0.01 to 0.01). The cost of noninvasive fetal RhD genotyping and inclusion of 
paternal RhD typing were drivers of the cost-effectiveness results in this 
population. In alloimmunized RhD- pregnancies, noninvasive fetal RhD genotyping 
was associated with lower resource use during the pregnancy. Compared with usual 
care, it was less costly (-$6,280, 95% CrI -$6,325 to -$6,229) and more 
effective (0.19 QALYs, 95% CrI 0.17 to 0.20).The annual budget impact of 
publicly funding noninvasive fetal RhD genotyping in nonalloimmunized RhD- 
pregnancies in Ontario ranges from $2.6 million in year 1 (uptake of 80%) to 
$3.4 million in year 5 (uptake of 100%), with a 5-year total of about $14.8 
million. In alloimmunized pregnancies, we estimate cost savings, from about $9 
million in year 1 to about $12 million in year 5, with 5-year total savings of 
about $51.5 million.We included two studies in the survey of quantitative 
preferences literature. In the quantitative literature, RhD- pregnant people 
support routine offering of noninvasive fetal RhD genotyping as part of 
pregnancy care, with a preference to be adequately informed about the test 
process, attributes, timing, and risks in advance of the test, ideally in a 
dialogue with their health care provider. More than half of obstetric health 
care providers were supportive of offering the test. The qualitative review by 
CADTH and our own engagement with Ontario patients yielded similar results. 
Participants consistently expressed a desire for more information about the test 
and assurance about its safety. They also consistently mentioned the prevention 
of unnecessary monitoring and treatment as potential benefits.
CONCLUSIONS: Noninvasive fetal RhD blood group genotyping is an accurate test to 
determine RhD incompatibility and guide management of RhD- pregnancies. Compared 
with usual care, noninvasive fetal RhD genotyping is less costly and more 
effective for the management of alloimmunized pregnancies. For nonalloimmunized 
pregnancies, noninvasive fetal RhD genotyping would generally not be considered 
cost-effective, compared with usual care, unless the cost of testing is much 
lower than what is proposed now. Publicly funding noninvasive fetal RhD 
genotyping for guiding the management of RhD- pregnancies in Ontario over next 5 
years is associated with a total budget impact of about $15 million in 
nonalloimmunized pregnancies and total cost savings of about $51 million in 
alloimmunized pregnancies. Patients and providers indicated support for the 
routine use of noninvasive fetal RhD genotyping in RhD- pregnancies.

Copyright © Queen's Printer for Ontario, 2020.

PMCID: PMC7670296
PMID: 33240456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Front Public Health. 2020 Nov 10;8:604394. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2020.604394. 
eCollection 2020.

The Discounted Money Value of Human Life Losses Associated With COVID-19 in 
Mauritius.

Musango L(1), Nundoochan A(1), Kirigia JM(2).

Author information:
(1)World Health Organization, Country Office for Mauritius, Port Louis, 
Mauritius.
(2)African Sustainable Development Research Consortium (ASDRC), Nairobi, Kenya.

Background: Mauritius along with other 12 countries in the African Region was 
identified at the early start of the COVID-19 pandemic as being at high risk due 
to high volume of international travel, high prevalence of non-communicable 
diseases and co-morbidities, high population density and significant share of 
population over 60 years (16%). The objective of this study was to estimate the 
total discounted money value of human life losses (TDMVCLMAURITIUS ) associated 
with COVID-19 in Mauritius. Methods: The human capital approach (HCA) was used 
to estimate the TDMVCLMAURITIUS of the 10 human life losses linked with COVID-19 
in Mauritius as of 16 October 2020. The HCA model was estimated with the 
national life expectancy of 75.51 years and a discount rate of 3%. A sensitivity 
analysis was performed assuming (a) 5 and 10% discount rates, and (b) the 
average world life expectancy of 73.2 years, and the world highest life 
expectancy of 88.17 years. Results: The money value of human lives lost to 
COVID-19, at a discounted rate of 3%, had an estimated TDMVCLMAURITIUS of Int$ 
3,120,689, and an average of Int$ 312,069 per human life lost. Approximately 74% 
of the TDMVCLMAURITIUS accrued to persons aged between 20 and 59 years. 
Reanalysis of the model with 5 and 10% discount rates, holding national life 
expectancy constant, reduced the TDMVCLMAURITIUS by 19.0 and 45.5%, 
respectively. Application of the average world life expectancy at 3% discount 
rate reduced TDMVCLMAURITIUS by 13%; and use of the world highest life 
expectancy at 3% discount rate increased TDMVCLMAURITIUS by 50%. Conclusions: 
The average discounted money value per human life loss associated with COVID-19 
is 12-fold the per capita GDP for Mauritius. All measures implemented to prevent 
widespread community transmission of COVID-19 may have saved the country 837 
human lives worth Int$258,080,991. This evidence, conjointly with human rights 
arguments, calls for increased investments to bridge the existing gaps for 
achieving universal health coverage by 2030.

Copyright © 2020 Musango, Nundoochan and Kirigia.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2020.604394
PMCID: PMC7683431
PMID: 33240837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Emerg Top Life Sci. 2020 Apr;2(1):93-105. doi: 10.1042/etls20170139. Epub
2020  Apr 18.

Protein Dynamics revealed by NMR Relaxation Methods.

Chao FA(1), Byrd RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Structural Biophysics Laboratory, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer 
Institute, Frederick, MD 21702-1201.

Structural biology often focuses primarily on three-dimensional structures of 
biological macromolecules, deposited in the Protein Data Bank (PDB). This 
resource is a remarkable entity for the world-wide scientific and medical 
communities, as well as the general public, as it is a growing translation into 
three-dimensional space of the vast information in genomic databases, e.g. 
GENBANK. There is, however, significantly more to understanding biological 
function than the three-dimensional coordinate space for ground-state structures 
of biomolecules. The vast array of biomolecules experiences natural dynamics, 
interconversion between multiple conformational states, and molecular 
recognition and allosteric events that play out on timescales ranging from 
picoseconds to seconds. This wide range of timescales demands ingenious and 
sophisticated experimental tools to sample and interpret these motions, thus 
enabling clearer insight into functional annotation of the PDB. NMR spectroscopy 
is unique in its ability to sample this range of timescales at atomic resolution 
and in physiologically relevant conditions using spin relaxation methods. The 
field is constantly expanding to provide new creative experiments, to yield more 
detailed coverage of timescales, and to broaden the power of interpretation and 
analysis methods. This review highlights the current state of the methodology 
and examines the extension of analysis tools for more complex experiments and 
dynamic models. The future for understanding protein dynamics is bright, and 
these extended tools bring greater compatibility with developments in 
computational molecular dynamics, all of which will further our understanding of 
biological molecular functions. These facets place NMR as a key component in 
integrated structural biology.

DOI: 10.1042/etls20170139
PMCID: PMC7685179
PMID: 33241122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. J Appl Lab Med. 2021 Jan 12;6(1):125-141. doi: 10.1093/jalm/jfaa182.

Health Disparities among Australia's Remote-Dwelling Aboriginal People: A Report 
from 2020.

Davey RX(1).

Author information:
(1)Shoreham, Australia.

Erratum in
    J Appl Lab Med. 2021 Jul 7;6(4):1086.

Comment in
    J Appl Lab Med. 2021 Jan 12;6(1):11-14.

BACKGROUND: Australia has 2 distinct indigenous groups, Torres Strait Islanders 
and Aborigines. The Aborigines, described in this report, first colonized the 
continent 65 millennia ago. Those still living in the Northern Territory (NT) 
retain much ancestrally derived genetic complement but also are the most 
health-challenged by environment and lifestyle in 21st century. Reports 
providing overviews of these disparities are, as yet, rare.
CONTENT: This review defines the studied population and then describes and 
attempts to explain contemporary clinical findings among Australia's 
remote-dwelling Aborigines, principally in the NT. The report is structured by 
life stage and then by organ system. Finally, a brief synthesis is advanced 
concerning the disparities that Australia's Aboriginals face.
SUMMARY: In 2015-2017, NT aboriginal life expectancy for people then born was 
66.6 years for men and 69.9 years for women compared with 78.1 and 82.7 years, 
respectively, among nonindigenous Territorians. Principal causes of the reduced 
longevity, with nonindigenous comparisons, include adolescent pregnancy, with 
maternal use of alcohol and tobacco (each 7-fold greater); fetal alcohol 
spectrum disorder and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder; skin infections, 
both scabies and impetigo (50-fold greater); rheumatic heart disease (260-fold 
greater); premature acute myocardial infarction (9-fold greater); bronchiectasis 
(40-fold greater); lung cancer (2-fold greater); diabetes mellitus (10-fold 
greater); renal failure (30-fold greater); and suicide (2-fold greater). Some 
disease has genetic roots, secondary to prolonged genetic drift. Much arises 
from avoidable stressors and from contemporary environmental disparities in 
housing. The Europid diet is also not helpful.

© American Association for Clinical Chemistry 2020. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jalm/jfaa182
PMID: 33241298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Food Funct. 2020 Dec 1;11(12):10913-10924. doi: 10.1039/d0fo02000a. Epub
2020  Nov 26.

Lactobacillus pentosus SMB718 as a probiotic starter producing allyl mercaptan 
in garlic and onion-enriched fermentation.

Jo YM (1), Seo H , Kim GY , Cheon SW , Kim SA , Park TS , Hurh BS , Han NS .

Author information:
(1)Brain Korea 21 Center for Bio-Health Industry, Division of Animal, 
Horticultural, and Food Sciences, Chungbuk National University, Cheongju 28644, 
Republic of Korea. namsoo@cbnu.ac.kr.

Fermenting garlic and onion provides the advantages of storage life extension, 
anti-oxidative and anti-diabetic activities, and their metabolite, allyl 
mercaptan, offers a strong aroma and various health benefits. Here, we report 
the probiotic properties of Lactobacillus pentosus SMB718 isolated from Korean 
traditional paste and its high allyl mercaptan productivity in garlic and onion 
fermentation. This strain was safe for use in food fermentation, as it was a 
non-biogenic amine producer and non-hemolytic. It showed high stability under 
simulated human gastrointestinal conditions and good adhesion ability to 
intestinal epithelial cells, including both Caco-2 and HT-29. This strain had 
antioxidant and anti-microbial activities. In addition, the heat-killed cells 
and lysate exerted anti-inflammatory effects on both LPS-stimulated RAW 264.7 
cells and mouse macrophages by inhibition of pro-inflammatory cytokines and 
induction of anti-inflammatory cytokines. Furthermore, this strain possessed 
good fermentation properties in garlic and onion-enriched radish juice (GORJ); 
it grew well decreasing the pH and provided a rich aroma compound during 
fermentation. When L. pentosus SMB718 was used as a starter in garlic and onion 
fermentation, a significantly higher amount of allyl mercaptan (344 ppb) was 
produced compared with that produced by the type strain (82 ppb). In conclusion, 
L. pentosus SMB718 can be used as a beneficial probiotic starter for better 
flavor production in the fermentation of allium species plants.

DOI: 10.1039/d0fo02000a
PMID: 33242049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Endocrine. 2021 Jun;72(3):915-922. doi: 10.1007/s12020-020-02554-4. Epub
2020  Nov 26.

Impact of age on postsurgical outcomes of nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas.

Biamonte E(#)(1)(2), Betella N(#)(1), Milani D(3), Lasio GB(3), Ariano S(1)(2), 
Radice S(3), Lavezzi E(1), Mazziotti G(4)(5), Lania A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology, Diabetology and Andrology Unit, Humanitas Clinical and 
Research Center IRCCS, Rozzano, MI, Italy.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Humanitas University, Pieve Emanuele, MI, 
Italy.
(3)Neurosurgery Unit, Humanitas Clinical and Research Center IRCCS, Rozzano, MI, 
Italy.
(4)Endocrinology, Diabetology and Andrology Unit, Humanitas Clinical and 
Research Center IRCCS, Rozzano, MI, Italy. gherardo.mazziotti@hunimed.eu.
(5)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Humanitas University, Pieve Emanuele, MI, 
Italy. gherardo.mazziotti@hunimed.eu.
(#)Contributed equally

PURPOSE: The management of pituitary adenomas in the elderly has become a 
relevant clinical issue, in relationship with improved life expectancy and 
spreading use of imaging techniques. In this single-center and retrospective 
study, we investigated the impact of age on peri- and postsurgical outcomes in 
patients undergoing transnasal sphenoidal (TNS) surgery for pituitary adenomas.
METHODS: One-hundred-sixty-nine patients (62% males) undergoing endoscopic 
transphenoidal (TNS) surgery for nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas (NFPAs) were 
enrolled. Patients were subdivided into three groups according to age tertiles: 
≤56 (group 1), 57-69 (group 2), and ≥70 (group 3) years. Postsurgical and 
endocrinological outcomes were evaluated and compared among the three age 
groups.
RESULTS: 37/169 patients (21.9%) developed at least one perisurgical 
complication, without significant association with the patients' age 
(P = 0.838), Charlson co-morbidity score (P = 0.326), and American Society of 
Anesthesiologist score (P = 0.616). In the multivariate regression analysis, the 
adenoma size resulted the only determinant of perisurgical complication (odds 
ratio [OR] 1.07, 95% confidence interval [C.I.] 1.00-1.13; P = 0.044). The 
development and the recovery of at least one pituitary hormone deficiency were 
observed in 12.2% and 14.2% of patients, respectively. The risk of developing 
new pituitary hormone deficiencies was correlated with cavernous sinus invasion 
as evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging (hazard ratio [HR] 4.19, 95% C.I. 
1.39-12.66; P = 0.010), whereas the probability to normalize at least one 
pituitary hormone deficiency was significantly correlated with younger age of 
patients (HR 0.27, 95% CI 0.12-0.61; P = 0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study reinforce the concept that endoscopic TNS 
surgery is a safe therapeutic option in the elderly patients with NFPA, even in 
presence of comorbidities and high anesthetic risk.

DOI: 10.1007/s12020-020-02554-4
PMID: 33242176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Lancet Haematol. 2020 Dec;7(12):e892-e901. doi:
10.1016/S2352-3026(20)30292-1.

Quality of patient-reported outcome reporting in randomised controlled trials of 
haematological malignancies according to international quality standards: a 
systematic review.

Chakraborty R(1), Cannella L(2), Cottone F(2), Efficace F(3).

Author information:
(1)Taussig Cancer Center, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(2)Italian Group for Adult Hematologic Diseases, Data Center and Health Outcomes 
Research Unit, Rome, Italy.
(3)Italian Group for Adult Hematologic Diseases, Data Center and Health Outcomes 
Research Unit, Rome, Italy. Electronic address: f.efficace@gimema.it.

Patient-reported outcome (PRO) endpoints are increasingly considered for 
inclusion in randomised controlled trials (RCTs) involving patients with 
haematological malignancies. The aim of our systematic review was to investigate 
the quality of PRO reporting across these RCTs. We searched Ovid MEDLINE, 
Embase, the Cochrane Library, and PubMed for English language articles published 
between Jan 1, 2014, and Jan 31, 2019. Eligible articles were RCTs of 
cancer-directed therapy in adult patients with haematological malignancies that 
reported on PRO measures in the primary publication or in a subsequent 
publication, with a comparison of PROs among treatment groups. A total of 3678 
records were assessed, and 71 RCTs, enrolling 24 701 patients, were included in 
our systematic review. Most RCTs (n=65 [92%]) had PRO measures as a secondary or 
exploratory endpoint. A PRO hypothesis and relevant PRO domains were specified 
in 36 (51%) RCTs. Statistical approaches for dealing with missing data were 
documented in 26 (37%) RCTs. Quality of PRO reporting was higher in RCTs citing 
the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials Statement-PRO extension 
(CONSORT-PRO) than in those not citing this checklist, as evidenced by the 
International Society for Quality of Life Research score (median score in 
studies citing the CONSORT-PRO extension [n=4] was 89 [IQR 75-94] vs 61 [44-78] 
in those not citing this extension). Independent factors significantly 
associated with higher reporting included having PROs as a primary endpoint 
(p=0·008) and the presence of a subsequent publication on PROs (p<0·0001). 
International guidelines for designing, reporting, and analysing PRO data are 
now available to further improve overall study quality. Our findings can help 
investigators to focus on key aspects most in need of attention when reporting 
PROs in future trials of haematological malignancies.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2352-3026(20)30292-1
PMID: 33242446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Environ Res. 2021 Feb;193:110512. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2020.110512. Epub
2020  Nov 23.

Improvement in life expectancy for ischemic heart diseases by achieving daily 
ambient PM(2.5) standards in China.

Qi J(1), Chen Q(2), Ruan Z(3), Qian ZM(4), Yin P(1), Liu Y(1), Liu J(1), Wang 
C(5), Yang Y(3), McMillin SE(6), Vaughn MG(6), Wang L(7), Lin H(8).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing, 100050, 
China.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Sun Yat-sen University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510080, China; Department of Cardiology, Sun Yat-sen 
Memorial Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510120, China.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Sun Yat-sen University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510080, China.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, College for Public Health & 
Social Justice, Saint Louis University, Saint Louis, MO, 63104, USA.
(5)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, College of Public Health, 
Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, 450001, China.
(6)School of Social Work, College for Public Health and Social Justice, Saint 
Louis University, Saint Louis, MO, 63103, USA.
(7)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing, 100050, 
China. Electronic address: wanglijun@ncncd.chinacdc.cn.
(8)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Sun Yat-sen University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510080, China. Electronic address: 
linhualiang@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: The potential impacts of daily ambient fine particulate pollution 
(PM2.5) exposure on year of life lost (YLL) due to ischemic heart diseases (IHD) 
remain uncertain. We aimed to estimate the improvement in IHD-related life 
expectancy by attaining the daily air quality standards of ambient PM2.5 in 
China.
METHODS AND RESULTS: This study was based on daily mortality data covering 96 
Chinese cities from 2013 to 2016. Regional- and national-associations between 
IHD-related YLLs and daily PM2.5 were estimated by generalized additive models. 
We further evaluated the IHD-related avoidable YLLs with an assumption that the 
daily PM2.5 was below the ambient air quality standards of World Health 
Organization (WHO) and China, and calculated the improvement of life expectancy 
by dividing the avoidable YLLs by the overall number of IHD mortality. We 
totally recorded 1,485,140 IHD deaths from 2013 to 2016. At the national level, 
we found a positive association between IHD-related YLLs and daily PM2.5. Per 
10 μg/m3 increment of four-day averaged ambient PM2.5 related to an increase of 
0.40 IHD-related YLLs (95% CI: 0.28, 0.51). By achieving the WHO's air quality 
guideline, we estimated that an averaged number of 1346.94 (95% CI: 932.61, 
1761.27) YLLs can be avoided for the IHD deaths in each city. On average, the 
life expectancy can be improved by 0.15 years (95% CI: 0.11, 0.19) for each 
death.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides a nationwide picture of the life expectancy 
improvements by reaching the daily PM2.5 standards in China, indicating that 
people can live longer in an environment with higher air quality.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2020.110512
PMID: 33242488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Heart Rhythm. 2021 Apr;18(4):641-650. doi: 10.1016/j.hrthm.2020.11.017. Epub
 2020 Nov 23.

Current strategies to minimize postoperative hematoma formation in patients 
undergoing cardiac implantable electronic device implantation: A review.

Mehta NK(1), Doerr K(2), Skipper A(2), Rojas-Pena E(2), Dixon S(3), Haines 
DE(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Beaumont Hospital Royal Oak, Royal 
Oak, Michigan; Oakland University William Beaumont School of Medicine, 
Rochester, Michigan; Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, University of 
Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. Electronic address: 
Nishaki.Mehta@beaumont.org.
(2)Oakland University William Beaumont School of Medicine, Rochester, Michigan.
(3)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Beaumont Hospital Royal Oak, Royal 
Oak, Michigan; Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, University of Virginia, 
Charlottesville, Virginia.

There are an increasing number of cardiac electronic device implants and 
generator changes with a longer patient life expectancy along with concomitant 
increase in antiplatelet and anticoagulant regimens, which can increase the 
incidence of pocket hematomas. We have conducted an in-depth analysis on the 
relevant literature, which is rife with varying definition of hematomas, on ways 
to reduce pocket hematomas. We have analyzed studies on periprocedural 
medication management, intraprocedural use of prohemostatic agents, and 
postprocedure role of compression devices.

Copyright © 2020 Heart Rhythm Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hrthm.2020.11.017
PMID: 33242669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Pediatr Neurosurg. 2020;55(6):374-379. doi: 10.1159/000511674. Epub 2020 Nov
26.

Superior Hypophyseal Artery Ruptured Aneurysm in a 5-Month-Old Child Presenting 
as an Acute Subdural Hematoma: A Case Report.

Komuński P(1), Nowosławska E(2), Zakrzewski K(2), Polis B(2), Świątnicki W(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Marie Sklodowska-Curie Hospital, Zgierz, Poland.
(2)Department of Pediatric Neurosurgery, Polish Mother's Memorial Hospital 
Research Institute, Lodz, Poland.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Marie Sklodowska-Curie Hospital, Zgierz, Poland, 
wswiatnicki@interia.eu.

INTRODUCTION: We present a very rare case of ruptured superior hypophyseal 
artery (SHA) aneurysm that presented as an acute subdural hematoma (SDH) 
discussing its initial presentation, diagnosis, and treatment modalities. To our 
knowledge it is one of very few if any cases of a ruptured aneurysm in infants 
regarding that specific vascular location.
CASE REPORT: A 5-month-old boy was referred to our department due to acute SDH 
over the right cerebral hemisphere without significant mass effect nor 
hydrocephalus. Further evaluation revealed a right internal carotid artery (ICA) 
aneurysm arising from the SHA segment. Microsurgical clip ligation using a 
fenestrated, angled clip was performed with simultaneous subdural clot removal 
and proximal control of the ICA dissected in the neck. Our patient made an 
excellent recovery without any complicating features.
CONCLUSION: Surgical management seems to be a better option in this subgroup of 
patients given the long life expectancy and durability of microsurgical clip 
ligation. We believe that our brief case report would add some insight into the 
management of this rare subgroup of patients, leading to better decision-making 
and outcome.

© 2020 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000511674
PMID: 33242866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. BMJ Open. 2020 Nov 26;10(11):e040691. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-040691.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of adding ramucirumab to the first-line erlotinib 
treatment for untreated EGFR-mutated metastatic non-small cell lung cancer in 
China.

Liu Q(1), Luo X(1), Peng L(1), Yi L(1), Wan X(1), Zeng X(2), Tan C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, Changsha, China.
(2)PET Imaging Center, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South University, 
Changsha, China tanchongqing@csu.edu.cn zengxiaohui2008@csu.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, Changsha, China tanchongqing@csu.edu.cn zengxiaohui2008@csu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the cost-effectiveness of ramucirumab plus erlotinib 
compared with placebo plus erlotinib in the first-line setting for patients with 
EGFR-mutated metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (mNSCLC) from the Chinese 
healthcare system perspective.
DESIGN: A Markov model consisting of three health states using clinical survival 
data from the RELAY phase III randomised clinical trial, a lifetime horizon for 
costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) was constructed to analyse the 
cost-effectiveness of ramucirumab plus erlotinib. One-way and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses were performed to evaluate the robustness of the model. 
Additional price reduction scenario analyses were performed.
SETTING: The Chinese healthcare system perspective.
PARTICIPANTS: A hypothetical Chinese cohort of patients with confirmed 
previously documented ex19del or Leu858Arg mutation stage IV NSCLC, and without 
known epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) Thr790Met mutation and central 
nervous system metastases.
INTERVENTIONS: Ramucirumab plus erlotinib versus placebo plus erlotinib.
PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURE: Costs, QALYs, incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER).
RESULTS: In base-case analysis, ramucirumab plus erlotinib yield an additional 
4.21 QALYs at a cost of $540 590, resulting in an ICER of $128 302/QALY. In 
price reduction scenario analysis, the ICER ($65 227/QALY) was decreased 
significantly when the National Reimbursement Drug List (NRDL) negotiation was 
available for ramucirumab, and the ICER ($131 554/QALY) was increased slightly 
when the NRDL negotiation was unavailable for erlotinib. Sensitivity analyses 
demonstrated our results to be most sensitive to the unit cost of ramucirumab 
(10 mg/kg), and more than 52.1% reduction in the price of ramucirumab resulted 
in the ICER under the willingness-to-pay threshold set for affluent regions ($70 
353/QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: Ramucirumab plus erlotinib is unlikely to be cost-effective for 
patients with untreated EGFR-mutated mNSCLC in China. Reducing the price of 
ramucirumab through the National Healthcare Security Administration negotiation 
was found to be the most realistic action to improve cost-effectiveness.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-040691
PMCID: PMC7692814
PMID: 33243806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


891. Br J Ophthalmol. 2022 Mar;106(3):435-439. doi:
10.1136/bjophthalmol-2020-317063.  Epub 2020 Nov 26.

Time trends, associations and global burden of intraocular foreign bodies.

Jin G(1), Zou M(1)(2), Zhang Y(3), Chen A(4), Young CA(5), Li Y(6), Jin L(1), 
Congdon N(7)(8), Zheng D(7).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun 
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Zhongshan School of Medicine, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Malignant 
Tumor Epigenetics and Gene Regulation, Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital, Sun 
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat- sen University, 
Zhuhai, China.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, Third Affiliated Hospital, Nanchang University, 
Nanchang, China.
(6)School Of Pharmacy And Food Science, Zhuhai College Jilin University, Zhuhai, 
Guangdong, China.
(7)State Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun 
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China zhengdyy@163.com ncongdon1@gmail.com.
(8)Centre for Public Health, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast, UK.

PURPOSE: To estimate the disease burden due to intraocular foreign bodies 
(IOFBs) and evaluate contributions of various risk factors to IOFB-associated 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs).
METHODS: Global, regional and country-level number, rate and age-standardised 
rate of DALYs due to IOFBs were acquired from the Global Burden of Disease Study 
2017 database. The Human Development Index (HDI) and other region and 
country-level data were obtained from open databases. Time trends for number, 
rate and age-standardised rate of DALYs due to IOFBs were calculated. Regression 
analysis was used to evaluate associations between age-standardised rate of 
DALYs and potential predictors.
RESULTS: Global DALYs due to IOFBs rose by 43.7% between 1990 (139 (95% CI 70.8 
to 233) thousand) and 2017 (202 (95% CI 105 to 335) thousand). The DALY rate 
remained stable while the age-standardised rate decreased during this period. 
Higher disease burden due to IOFBs was associated with higher glaucoma 
prevalence (β=0.006, 95% CI 0.003 to 0.09, p<0.001), lower refractive error 
prevalence (β=-0.0005, 95% CI -0.0007 to -0.0002, p<0.001), and lower income 
(β=-0.020, 95% CI -0.035 to -0.006, p=0.007).
CONCLUSION: Predictors of a greater burden of IOFB disability generally point to 
lower socioeconomic level. The association with glaucoma may reflect a 
complication of IOFB, increasing risk of vision loss and disability.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2020-317063
PMID: 33243828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: NC declares that he is 
Director of Research for Orbis International, a non-governmental organisation 
working in global eye health, including reducing the burden of ocular trauma.


892. World J Gastroenterol. 2020 Nov 7;26(41):6455-6474. doi: 
10.3748/wjg.v26.i41.6455.

Real-world cost-effectiveness associated with infliximab maintenance therapy for 
moderate to severe Crohn's disease in China.

Shi JH(1), Luo L(1), Chen XL(1), Pan YP(1), Zhang Z(1), Fang H(1), Chen Y(2), 
Chen WD(3), Cao Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, College of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310016, Zhejiang Province, China.
(2)Department of Project, Changsha Normin Health Technology Ltd, Changsha 
410013, Hunan Province, China.
(3)Department of HEOR, Normin Health Consulting Ltd, Toronto L5R 0E9, Ontario, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: Infliximab was the first approved biologic treatment for moderate to 
severe Crohn's disease (MS-CD) in China. However, the cost-effectiveness of 
infliximab maintenance therapy (IMT) for MS-CD relative to conventional 
maintenance therapy remained unclarified.
AIM: To assess the cost-effectiveness of IMT for MS-CD in Chinese patients from 
the perspective of Chinese public insurance payer.
METHODS: A cohort of MS-CD patients managed in a Chinese tertiary care hospital 
was created to compare IMT with conventional maintenance therapy (CMT) for 
clinical outcomes and direct medical costs over a 1-year observation time using 
conventional regression analyses. A decision-analytic model with the generated 
evidence was constructed to assess the cost-effectiveness of IMT relative to CMT 
using reimbursed medical costs.
RESULTS: Based on the included 389 patients, IMT was associated with 
significantly higher disease remission chance [odds ratio: 4.060, P = 0.003], 
lower risk of developing new complications (odds ratio: 0.527, P = 0.010), 
higher utility value for quality of life (coefficient 0.822, P = 0.008), and 
lower total hospital costs related to disease management (coefficient -0.378, P 
= 0.008) than CMT. Base-case cost-effectiveness analysis estimated that IMT 
could cost Chinese health insurance payers ¥55260 to gain one quality-adjusted 
life year (QALY). The cost-effectiveness of IMT was mainly driven by the 
estimate of quality of life, treatment efficacy of maintenance therapy, 
mortality risk associated with active disease, and unit price of infliximab. The 
probability that IMT was cost-effective at a willingness-to-pay threshold of 
three times gross domestic product [2018 Chinese gross domestic product per 
capita (GDPPC)] was 86.4%.
CONCLUSION: IMT significantly improved real-world health outcomes and cost the 
Chinese public health insurance payers less than one GDPPC to gain one QALY in 
Chinese MS-CD patients.

©The Author(s) 2020. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v26.i41.6455
PMCID: PMC7656205
PMID: 33244205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: Chen Y and Chen 
WD are employed by a consulting firm that receives industry funds to conduct 
health economics and outcome research. Other authors have none to declare. 


893. J Clin Transl Sci. 2020 Mar 24;4(5):472-476. doi: 10.1017/cts.2020.26.

A non-randomized pilot study to test the feasibility of treating chronic pain 
and opioid prescription use in rural areas with acceptance and commitment 
therapy (T-PACT).

Rhyne RL(1), Rishel Brakey H(2), Halladay JR(3)(4), Mottus K(4), Greiner KA(5), 
Salt E(6), Myers O(7), Sutton K(8), Fuentes J(2), Vowles KE(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, Community Engagement and 
Research Core, Clinical and Translational Science Center, University of New 
Mexico Health Sciences Center, Albuquerque, NM, USA.
(2)Clinical and Translational Science Center, University of New Mexico Health 
Science Center, Albuquerque, NM, USA.
(3)Department of Family Medicine, University of North Carolina School of 
Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(4)North Carolina Translational and Clinical Sciences (NC TraCS) Institute, 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(5)Department of Family Medicine, Kansas Patients and Providers Engaged in 
Prevention Research (KPPEPR), University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, 
KS, USA.
(6)College of Nursing, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA.
(7)Department of Family and Community Medicine, University of New Mexico Health 
Sciences Center, Albuquerque, NM, USA.
(8)Cecil G. Sheps Center for Health Services Research, The University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(9)Centre for Improving Health-Related Quality of Life, School of Psychology, 
Queen's University Belfast, Belfast, UK.

Chronic non-cancer pain (CNCP) involves one-third of the US population, and 
prescription opioids contribute to the opioid epidemic. The Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention emphasizes maximizing non-opioid treatment, but many 
rural populations cannot access alternative therapies. Clinical and 
Translational Science Award hubs across four rural states performed a 
multi-site, single-arm intervention feasibility study testing methods and 
procedures of implementing a behavioral intervention, acceptance and commitment 
therapy, in primary care CNCP patients on chronic opioids. Using the CONSORT 
extension for feasibility studies, we describe lessons learned in 
recruiting/retaining participants, intervention implementation, data 
measurement, and multi-site procedures. Results inform a future definitive trial 
and potentially others conducting rural trials.

© The Association for Clinical and Translational Science 2020.

DOI: 10.1017/cts.2020.26
PMCID: PMC7681117
PMID: 33244439

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest with 
any industry or financial agencies within the last 3 years.


894. Transl Vis Sci Technol. 2020 Nov 20;9(12):27. doi: 10.1167/tvst.9.12.27. 
eCollection 2020 Nov.

Prosthetic Visual Performance Using a Disparity-Based Distance-Filtering System.

Kartha A(1), Sadeghi R(2), Barry MP(3), Bradley C(1), Gibson P(4), Caspi 
A(3)(5), Roy A(3), Dagnelie G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, 
USA.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Second Sight Medical Products, Sylmar, California, USA.
(4)Advanced Medical Electronics Corporation, Maple Grove, MN, USA.
(5)Jerusalem College of Technology, Jerusalem, Israel.

PURPOSE: At present, Argus II is the only retinal prosthesis approved by the US 
Food and Drug Administration that induces visual percepts in people who are 
blind from end-stage outer retinal degenerations such as retinitis pigmentosa. 
It has been shown to work well in sparse, high-contrast settings, but in daily 
practice visual performance with the device is likely to be hampered by the 
cognitive load presented by a cluttered real-world environment. In this study, 
we investigated the effect of a stereo-disparity-based distance-filtering system 
on four experienced Argus II users for a range of tasks: object localization, 
depth discrimination, orientation and size discrimination, and people detection 
and direction of motion.
