they have no conflict of interest.


976. Acta Derm Venereol. 2021 Mar 31;101(3):adv00422. doi: 10.2340/00015555-3712.

Secukinumab Improves Patient Perception of Anxiety and Depression in Patients 
with Moderate to Severe Psoriasis: A Post hoc Analysis of the SUPREME Study.

Talamonti M(1), Malara G, Natalini Y, Bardazzi F, Conti A, Chiricozzi A, 
Mugheddu C, Gisondi P, Piaserico S, Pagnanelli G, Amerio P, Potenza C, Cantoresi 
F, Fargnoli MC, Balato A, Loconsole F, Offidani A, Bonifati C, Prignano F, 
Bartezaghi M, Rausa A, Aloisi E, Orsenigo R, Costanzo A; the SUPREME Study 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Dermatology Unit, Policlinico Tor Vergata, 00133 Rome, Italy.

This study evaluated whether secukinumab treatment for patients with moderate to 
severe plaque psoriasis correlates with improvements in symptoms of anxiety and 
depression. SUPREME was a 24-week, phase IIIb, multicentre, prospective study 
conducted across 50 centres in Italy with an extension period of up to 72 weeks. 
Assessments used were: Psoriasis Area Sever-ity Index (PASI), Hospital Anxiety 
and Depression Scale (HADS) - Anxiety (HADS-A), and HADS - Depression (HADS-D) 
scores and Dermatology Quality Life Index (DLQI). Compared with baseline, a 
significantly greater proportion of patients who reported moderate to severe 
clinical symptoms of anxiety or depression (HADS-A or HADS-D ≥ 11) were free of 
moderate to severe symptoms at weeks 16 and 48. The PASI and DLQI scores reduced 
over time with secukinumab treatment. Psoriasis treatment with secukinumab for 
48 weeks resulted in significantly improved skin clearance and a parallel 
improvement in symptoms of anxiety and depression, assessed by HADS.

DOI: 10.2340/00015555-3712
PMCID: PMC9366680
PMID: 33269404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: AC served as advisory 
board member and consultant, and has received fees and speaker’s honoraria or 
has participated in clinical trials for AbbVie, Biogen, Fresenius Kabi, Leo 
Pharma, Lilly, Janssen, Novartis, Sanofi Genzyme and UCB Pharma. GP has been 
speaker and consultant for Novartis and AbbVie. PA received honoraria for 
speaker from AbbVie, Janssen, Eli Lilly, Novartis, Pfizer, Celgene and Sanofi. 
MCF has served as a speaker, board member and/or received research grants from 
Abbvie, Leo Pharma, Celgene, UCB, Eli Lilly, Pfizer, Janssen, Novartis, 
Sanofi-Genzyme. AC has been an advisory board member and consultant, and has 
received fees and honoraria or has participated in clinical trials for AbbVie, 
Biogen, Leo Pharma, Eli Lilly, Novartis, UCB-Pharma, Sandoz, and Janssen Cilag. 
PG has been a consultant and/or speaker for AbbVie, Almirall, Celgene, Janssen, 
Leo-pharma, Eli Lilly, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Novartis, Pfizer, Sandoz, and UCB. 
AO acted as a speaker and consultant for AbbVie, Eli Lilly, Novartis, Celgene, 
Sanofi, Galderma, Leo Pharma, Pierre Fabre, outside of the present work. FP 
reports personal fees for advisory board from AbbVie, Biogen, Eli Lilly, 
Celgene, Leo Pharma, Novartis, Sanofi and Janssen-Cilag, outside of the present 
work. SP has consulted (includes advisory boards and podium presentations) for 
AbbVie, Almirall, Celgene, Galderma, Janssen-Cilag, Leo Pharma, Lilly, MSD, 
Novartis and UCB Pharma. MT, GM, YN, FB, CM, FC, CP, AB, CB and FL report no 
conflict of interest. AC acted as a speaker and consultant for AbbVie, Eli 
Lilly, Novartis, Almirall, Celgene, Sanofi, Janssen and Pfizer. MB, AR, EA and 
RO are employed by Novartis. SUPREME Study Group: Luca Bianchi, Valeria 
Brazzelli, Cinzia Buligan, Martina Burlando, Giacomo Caldarola, Anna Campanati, 
Angelo Cattaneo, Francesco Cusano, Paolo Dapavo, Stefano Dastoli, Clara De 
Simone, Micol Del Giglio, Vito Di Lernia, Sergio Di Nuzzo, Daniele Dusi, Rosaria 
Fidanza, Maria Laura Flori, Chiara Franchi, Marco Galluzzo, Alberto Ghilardi, 
Giampiero Girolomoni, Federica Giuliani, Dario Graceffa, Katharina Hansel, 
Piergiorgio Malagoli, Valentina Mastrandrea, Matteo Megna, Santo Raffaele 
Mercuri, Maria Letizia Musumeci, Luigi Naldi, Alessandra Narcisi, Diego Orsini, 
Manuela Papini, Annalisa Patrizi, Monica Pau, Giovanni Pellacani, Ketty Peris, 
Severino Persechino, Leonardo Pescitelli, Lucia Pietroleonardo, Alberto 
Reseghetti, Marco Romanelli, Franco Rongioletti, Filomena Russo, Roberta 
Scuderi, Riccardo Sirna, Nevena Skroza, Giuseppe Stinco, Luca Stingeni, Sara 
Trevisini, Marina Venturini, Cristina Zane, Leonardo Zichichi, Antonio Zini.


977. Microbiologyopen. 2021 Jan;10(1):e1143. doi: 10.1002/mbo3.1143. Epub 2020
Dec 2.

Pantoea ananatis carotenoid production confers toxoflavin tolerance and is 
regulated by Hfq-controlled quorum sensing.

Choi O(1), Kang B(2), Lee Y(2), Lee Y(3), Kim J(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Agriculture and Life Science, Gyeongsang National University, 
Jinju, Korea.
(2)Division of Applied Life Science, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju, 
Korea.
(3)Department of Plant Medicine, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju, Korea.

Carotenoids are widely used in functional foods, cosmetics, and health 
supplements, and their importance and scope of use are continuously expanding. 
Here, we characterized carotenoid biosynthetic genes of the plant-pathogenic 
bacterium Pantoea ananatis, which carries a carotenoid biosynthetic gene cluster 
(including crtE, X, Y, I, B, and Z) on a plasmid. Reverse 
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis revealed that the 
crtEXYIB gene cluster is transcribed as a single transcript and crtZ is 
independently transcribed in the opposite direction. Using splicing by overlap 
extension with polymerase chain reaction (SOE by PCR) based on asymmetric 
amplification, we reassembled crtE-B, crtE-B-I, and crtE-B-I-Y. High-performance 
liquid chromatography confirmed that Escherichia coli expressing the reassembled 
crtE-B, crtE-B-I, and crtE-B-I-Y operons produced phytoene, lycopene, and 
β-carotene, respectively. We found that the carotenoids conferred tolerance to 
UV radiation and toxoflavin. Pantoea ananatis shares rice environments with the 
toxoflavin producer Burkholderia glumae and is considered to be the first 
reported example of producing and using carotenoids to withstand toxoflavin. We 
confirmed that carotenoid production by P. ananatis depends on RpoS, which is 
positively regulated by Hfq/ArcZ and negatively regulated by ClpP, similar to an 
important regulatory network of E. coli (HfqArcZ →RpoS Ͱ ClpXP). We also 
demonstrated that Hfq-controlled quorum signaling de-represses EanR to activate 
RpoS, thereby initiating carotenoid production. Survival genes such as those 
responsible for the production of carotenoids of the plant-pathogenic P. 
ananatis must be expressed promptly to overcome stressful environments and 
compete with other microorganisms. This mechanism is likely maintained by a 
brake with excellent performance, such as EanR.

© 2020 The Authors. MicrobiologyOpen published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mbo3.1143
PMCID: PMC7883899
PMID: 33269542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


978. Cephalalgia. 2021 Jan;41(1):6-16. doi: 10.1177/0333102420973994. Epub 2020
Dec  3.

Reversion from chronic migraine to episodic migraine following treatment with 
erenumab: Results of a post-hoc analysis of a randomized, 12-week, double-blind 
study and a 52-week, open-label extension.

Lipton RB(1), Tepper SJ(2), Silberstein SD(3), Kudrow D(4), Ashina M(5), Reuter 
U(6), Dodick DW(7), Zhang F(8), Rippon GA(9), Cheng S(10), Mikol DD(10).

Author information:
(1)Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA.
(2)Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover, NH, USA.
(3)Jefferson Headache Center, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(4)California Medical Clinic for Headache, Santa Monica, CA, USA.
(5)Danish Headache Center, Rigshospitalet Glostrup, Faculty of Health and 
Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(6)Department of Neurology, Charité Universitätsmedizin, Berlin, Germany.
(7)Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, AZ, USA.
(8)Global Biostatistical Science, Amgen Inc., Thousand Oaks, CA, USA.
(9)Global Medical Affairs, Amgen Inc., Thousand Oaks, CA, USA.
(10)Global Development, Amgen Inc., Thousand Oaks, CA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine reversion rates from chronic migraine to episodic 
migraine during long-term erenumab treatment.
METHODS: A daily headache diary was completed during the 12-week, double-blind 
treatment phase of a placebo-controlled trial comparing erenumab 70 mg, 140 mg, 
and placebo, and weeks 1-12, 21-24, 37-40, and 49-52 of the open-label treatment 
phase. Chronic migraine to episodic migraine reversion rates were assessed over 
the double-blind treatment phase; persistent reversion to episodic migraine over 
24 weeks (double-blind treatment phase through the first 12 weeks in the 
open-label treatment phase), long-term persistent reversion to episodic migraine 
over 64 weeks (double-blind treatment phase plus open-label treatment phase); 
delayed reversion to episodic migraine through the first 12 weeks of the 
open-label treatment phase among patients remaining in chronic migraine during 
the double-blind treatment phase.
RESULTS: In the double-blind treatment phase, 53.1% (95% confidence interval: 
47.8-58.3) of 358 erenumab-treated completers had reversion to episodic 
migraine; monthly reversion rates to episodic migraine were typically higher 
among patients receiving 140 mg versus 70 mg. Among 181 completers (receiving 
erenumab for 64 weeks), 98 (54.1% [95% confidence interval: 46.6-61.6]) had 
reversion to episodic migraine during the double-blind treatment phase; of 
those, 96.9% (95% confidence interval: 91.3-99.4) had persistent reversion to 
episodic migraine, 96.8% (95% confidence interval: 91.1-99.3) of whom had 
long-term persistent reversion to episodic migraine. Delayed reversion to 
episodic migraine occurred in 36/83 (43.4% [95% confidence interval: 32.5-54.7]) 
patients; of these, 77.8% (95% confidence interval: 60.9-89.9) persisted in 
reversion through week 64.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with reversion to episodic migraine at week 12 will likely 
persist as episodic migraine with longer-term erenumab; others may achieve 
delayed reversion to episodic migraine.Clinical trial registration: URL: 
https://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT02066415.

DOI: 10.1177/0333102420973994
PMCID: PMC7786390
PMID: 33269951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interests: The 
authors declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to 
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: RBL is the Edwin 
S. Lowe Professor of Neurology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New 
York. He receives research support from the NIH: 2PO1 AG003949 (mPI), 5U10 
NS077308 (PI), R21 AG056920 (Investigator), 1RF1 AG057531 (Site PI), RF1 
AG054548 (Investigator), 1RO1 AG048642 (Investigator), R56 AG057548 
(Investigator), U01062370 (Investigator), RO1 AG060933 (Investigator), RO1 
AG062622 (Investigator), 1UG3FD006795 (mPI), 1U24NS113847 (Investigator), K23 
NS09610 (Mentor), K23AG049466 (Mentor), K23 NS107643 (Mentor). He also receives 
support from the Migraine Research Foundation and the National Headache 
Foundation. He serves on the editorial board of Neurology, senior advisor to 
Headache, and associate editor to Cephalalgia. He has reviewed for the NIA and 
NINDS, holds stock options in eNeura Therapeutics and Biohaven Holdings; serves 
as consultant, advisory board member, or has received honoraria from: American 
Academy of Neurology, Allergan, American Headache Society, Amgen, Avanir, 
Biohaven, Biovision, Boston Scientific, Dr. Reddy’s (Promius), Electrocore, Eli 
Lilly, eNeura Therapeutics, Equinox, GlaxoSmithKline, Lundbeck (Alder), Merck, 
Pernix, Pfizer, Supernus, Teva, Trigemina, Vector, and Vedanta. He receives 
royalties from Wolff’s Headache 7th and 8th Edition, Oxford University Press, 
2009, Wiley, and Informa. SJT reports serving as editor of Headache Currents and 
board member for American Headache Society; serving as consultant for Acorda, 
Alder, Alexsa, Align Strategies, Allergan, Alphasights, Amgen, Aperture Venture 
Partners, Aralez Pharmaceuticals Canada, Axsome, Becker Pharmaceutical 
Consulting, BioDelivery Sciences International, Biohaven, Charleston Labs, 
Currax, Decision Resources, DeepBench, Dr. Reddy’s, electroCore, Eli Lilly, 
eNeura, Equinox, ExpertConnect, GLG, GlaxoSmithKline, Guidepoint Global, 
Healthcare Consultancy Group, Impel, M3 Global Research, Magellan Rx Management, 
Marcia Berenson Connected Research and Consulting, Medicxi, Navigant Consulting, 
Neurolief, Nordic BioTech, Novartis, Pfizer, Reckner Healthcare, Relevale, 
Revance, Satsuma, Scion Neurostim, Slingshot Insights, Sorrento, Spherix Global 
Insights, Sudler and Hennessey, Synapse Medical Consulting, Teva, Theranica, 
Thought Leader Select, Trinity Partners, XOC, and Zosano; speaking for or 
receiving honoraria from American Academy of Neurology, American Headache 
Society, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Diamond Headache Clinic, Elsevier, 
Forefront Collaborative, Hamilton General Hospital, Headache Cooperative of New 
England, Henry Ford Hospital, Inova, Medical Learning Institute Peerview, Miller 
Medical Communications, North American Center for CME, Physicians’ Education 
Resource, Rockpointe, and WebMD/Medscape; other activities for Percept and Wiley 
Blackwell; and stock options from Percept. SDS reports serving as consultant 
and/or advisory board member for and receiving honoraria from Abide 
Therapeutics, Alder, Allergan, Amgen, Avanir, Biohaven, Cefaly, Curelator, Dr. 
Reddy’s, Egalet, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Health Holdings, eNeura, 
electroCore, Impel NeuroPharma, Medscape, Novartis, Satsuma, Supernus, Teva, 
Theranica, and Trigemina. DK reports serving as consultant for Alder, Amgen, 
Biohaven, Eli Lilly, Nerivio, and Satsuma; and receiving research grants from 
Alder, Allergan, Amgen, Axsome, Biohaven, Eli Lilly, Satsuma, and Teva. MA 
reports serving as investigator for Alder, Allergan, Amgen, Eli Lilly, Novartis, 
and Teva; serving as consultant and investigator for Alder, Allergan, Amgen, Eli 
Lilly, Lundbeck, Novartis, and Teva; serving as consultant for Alder and 
Lundbeck; receiving research grants from Novartis; and other research grants 
from Lundbeck Foundation and Novo Nordisk Foundation. UR reports receiving 
personal compensation from Allergan, Amgen, Eli Lilly, Medscape, StreaMedUp, 
Novartis, and Teva for scientific presentations and participation in advisory 
board meetings. DWD reports consulting fees from AEON, Alder, Allergan, Amgen, 
Amzak Health, Association of Translational Medicine, Autonomic Technologies, 
Axsome, Biohaven, Charleston Labs, Clexio, Daniel Edelman Inc., Dr Reddy's 
Laboratories (Promius), ElectroCore, Eli Lilly, eNeura, Equinox, Foresite 
Capital, Impel, Ipsen, Neurolief, Nocira, Novartis, Oppenheimer, Pieris, PSL 
Group Services, Revance, Salvia, Satsuma, Sun Pharma (India), Supernus, Teva, 
Theranica, University Health Network, Upjohn (Division of Pfizer), Vedanta, WL 
Gore, XoC, Zosano, and ZP Opco; personal fees to develop/deliver educational 
content for continuing medical education projects from the Academy for Continued 
Healthcare Learning, Catamount, Chameleon, Global Access Meetings, Global Life 
Sciences, Global Scientific Communications, Haymarket, HealthLogix, Medicom 
Worldwide, MedLogix Communications, Mednet, Miller Medical, PeerView, Universal 
Meeting Management, UpToDate (Elsevier), and WebMD Health/Medscape; personal 
fees, royalties from Cambridge University Press, Oxford University Press, and 
Wolters Kluwer Health; board of directors, received stock options from Aural 
Analytics, Epien, Healint, King-Devick Technologies, Matterhorn, Nocira, 
Ontologics, Precon Health, Second Opinion/Mobile Health, and Theranica; no 
personal fees or royalties from Allergan for Patent 17189376.1-1466:vTitle: 
Botulinum Toxin Dosage Regimen for Chronic Migraine Prophylaxis; research 
funding to institution for salary support from the American Migraine Foundation, 
Henry Jackson Foundation, PCORI, and US Department of Defense; reimbursement for 
travel from the American Academy of Neurology, American Brain Foundation, 
American Headache Society, American Migraine Foundation, Canadian Headache 
Society, and International Headache Society; personal fees, speaking (not 
speakers bureau) from Amgen, Lilly, Lundbeck, and Novartis. FZ, GAR, SC, and DDM 
are employed by and own stock in Amgen.


979. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2021 Apr 3;17(4):1073-1082. doi: 
10.1080/21645515.2020.1832835. Epub 2020 Dec 3.

Modeling the epidemiological impact and cost-effectiveness of a combined 
schoolgirl HPV vaccination and cervical cancer screening program among Chinese 
women.

Ma X(1)(2), Harripersaud K(3), Smith K(3), Fairley CK(4)(5), Zou H(6), Zou Z(1), 
Wang Y(7), Zhuang G(1), Zhang L(1)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)China-Australia Joint Research Center for Infectious Diseases, School of 
Public Health, Health Science Centre, Xi'an Jiao Tong University, Xi'an, China.
(2)Institute of Health Policy Management and Evaluation, Dalla Lana School of 
Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(3)Division of Epidemiology and Community Health, School of Public Health, 
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.
(4)Melbourne Sexual Health Centre, Alfred Health, Carlton, Australia.
(5)Central Clinical School, Faculty of Medicine Nursing and Health Sciences, 
Monash University, Clayton, Australia.
(6)School of Public Health (Shenzhen), Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(7)Department of Maternal Care, Shenzhen Maternity and Child Health Hospitals, 
Shenzhen, Guangdong, China.

Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is common in women and also the main cause 
of cervical cancer. Based on a dynamic compartmental model, we aimed to evaluate 
the population impact and cost-effectiveness of strategies that combined 
cervical cancer screening and HPV schoolgirl vaccination for Chinese women. The 
effectiveness of interventions was assessed by comparing modeled scenarios to 
the status quo, where a 3-y cervical cancer screening program remained at a 20% 
coverage and without a universal HPV vaccination program. Our study demonstrated 
that increasing screening coverage from 20% to 50% would reduce the high-risk 
HPV (HR-HPV) prevalence to 5.4%, whereas a universal schoolgirl vaccination 
program using the quadrivalent vaccine (qHPV) with a coverage of 50% would 
reduce the prevalence to 2.9% by 2069. Scaling-up the cervical screening 
coverage to 50% will prevent 16,012 (95% CI: 8,791 to 25,913) 
Disability-Adjusted Life-Years (DALYs) per year, with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of US$ 10,958 (95% CI: $169 to $26,973)/DALY 
prevented. At the current qHPV price, vaccinating 50% of school girls will 
prevent 13,854 (95% CI: 8,355 to 20,776) DALYs/year, but the corresponding 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER, US$ 83,043, 95% CI: $52,234 to 
$138,025) exceeds cost-effectiveness threshold (i.e., 3 times GDP per-capita of 
China: $30,792). The qHPV vaccine requires at least a 50% price reduction to be 
cost-effective. Vaccinating schoolgirls will result in a large population health 
benefit in the long term, but such a universal HPV vaccination program can only 
be cost-effective with a substantial price reduction.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2020.1832835
PMCID: PMC8018426
PMID: 33269990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. JMIR Mhealth Uhealth. 2020 Dec 3;8(12):e22537. doi: 10.2196/22537.

Virtual Reality Systems for Upper Limb Motor Function Recovery in Patients With 
Spinal Cord Injury: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

De Miguel-Rubio A(1), Rubio MD(2), Alba-Rueda A(1), Salazar A(3)(4)(5), 
Moral-Munoz JA(4)(5)(6), Lucena-Anton D(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Pharmacology and Physiotherapy, University of Cordoba, 
Cordoba, Spain.
(2)Department of Cell Biology, Physiology and Immunology, University of Cordoba, 
Cordoba, Spain.
(3)Department of Statistics and Operational Research, University of Cadiz, 
Cadiz, Spain.
(4)Institute of Research and Innovation in Biomedical Sciences of the Province 
of Cadiz (INiBICA), University of Cadiz, Cadiz, Spain.
(5)The Observatory of Pain, University of Cadiz, Cadiz, Spain.
(6)Department of Nursing and Physiotherapy, University of Cadiz, Cadiz, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Patients with spinal cord injury (SCI) usually present with 
different motor impairments, including a deterioration of upper limb motor 
function (ULMF), that limit their performance of activities of daily living and 
reduce their quality of life. Virtual reality (VR) is being used in neurological 
rehabilitation for the assessment and treatment of the physical impairments of 
this condition.
OBJECTIVE: A systematic review and meta-analysis was conducted to evaluate the 
effectiveness of VR on ULMF in patients with SCI compared with conventional 
physical therapy.
METHODS: The search was performed from October to December 2019 in Embase, Web 
of Science, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), 
Scopus, Medline, Physiotherapy Evidence Database (PEDro), PubMed, and Cochrane 
Central Register of Controlled Trials. The inclusion criteria of selected 
studies were as follows: (1) comprised adults with SCI, (2) included an 
intervention with VR, (3) compared VR intervention with conventional physical 
therapy, (4) reported outcomes related to ULMF, and (5) was a controlled 
clinical trial. The Cochrane Collaboration's tool was used to evaluate the risk 
of bias. The RevMan 5.3 statistical software was used to obtain the 
meta-analysis according to the standardized mean difference (SMD) and 95% CIs.
RESULTS: Six articles were included in this systematic review. Four of them 
contributed information to the meta-analysis. A total of 105 subjects were 
analyzed. All of the studies used semi-immersive or nonimmersive VR systems. The 
statistical analysis showed nonsignificant results for the Nine-Hole Peg Test 
(SMD -0.93, 95% CI -1.95 to 0.09), muscle balance test (SMD -0.27, 95% CI -0.82 
to 0.27), Motricity Index (SMD 0.16, 95% CI -0.37 to 0.68), Jebsen-Taylor Hand 
Function Test (JTHFT) subtests (writing, SMD -0.10, 95% CI -4.01 to 3.82; 
simulated page turning, SMD -0.99, 95% CI -2.01 to 0.02; simulated feeding, SMD 
-0.64, 95% CI -1.61 to 0.32; stacking checkers, SMD 0.99, 95% CI -0.02 to 2.00; 
picking up large light objects, SMD -0.42, 95% CI -1.37 to 0.54; and picking up 
large heavy objects, SMD 0.52, 95% CI -0.44 to 1.49), range of motion of 
shoulder abduction/adduction (SMD -0.23, 95% CI -1.48 to 1.03), shoulder 
flexion/extension (SMD 0.56, 95% CI -1.24 to 2.36), elbow flexion (SMD -0.36, 
95% CI -1.14 to 0.42), elbow extension (SMD -0.21, 95% CI -0.99 to 0.57), wrist 
extension (SMD 1.44, 95% CI -2.19 to 5.06), and elbow supination (SMD -0.18, 95% 
CI -1.80 to 1.44). Favorable results were found for the JTHFT subtest picking up 
small common objects (SMD -1.33, 95% CI -2.42 to -0.24).
CONCLUSIONS: The current evidence for VR interventions to improve ULMF in 
patients with SCI is limited. Future studies employing immersive systems to 
identify the key aspects that increase the clinical impact of VR interventions 
are needed, as well as research to prove the benefits of the use of VR in the 
rehabilitation of patients with SCI in the clinical setting.

©Amaranta De Miguel-Rubio, M Dolores Rubio, Alvaro Alba-Rueda, Alejandro 
Salazar, Jose A Moral-Munoz, David Lucena-Anton. Originally published in JMIR 
mHealth and uHealth (http://mhealth.jmir.org), 03.12.2020.

DOI: 10.2196/22537
PMCID: PMC7746495
PMID: 33270040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


981. J Oral Pathol Med. 2021 May;50(5):429-434. doi: 10.1111/jop.13147. Epub 2021
Jan  11.

Follow-up after oral cancer treatment-Transition to a personalized approach.

Brands M(1)(2)(3), Verbeek A(4), Geurts S(5), Merkx T(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Radboud University Medical 
Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, University Hospital Monklands, 
Airdrie, UK.
(3)Netherlands Comprehensive Cancer Organisation, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(4)Department for Health Evidence, Radboud University Medical Centre, Radboud 
Institute for Health Sciences, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Medical Oncology, GROW-School for Oncology and Developmental 
Biology, Maastricht University Medical Center+, Maastricht, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Guidelines for follow-up after oral cancer treatment are not 
site-specific and encompass the entire head and neck area rather than the oral 
cavity alone. This one-size-fits-all protocol disregards the differences in 
aetiology, treatment and differential distribution of new disease between the 
subsites. With the effectiveness of follow-up in early detection of new disease 
being put into question, the focus of follow-up programmes might shift to other 
aspects of survivorship care. Personalization of follow-up is important, 
considering patient-specific features and needs. Furthermore, the COVID-19 
pandemic urges us to rethink our follow-up practice.
FINDINGS: This paper discusses ways in which routine follow-up in patients 
treated for oral cancer can be optimized. Patients with a high risk of new 
disease might benefit from an intensified follow-up regimen, whilst patients 
with a low risk of new disease, a low chance of cure or limited life expectancy 
could benefit from a de-intensified follow-up regimen. The latter could include 
a shorter follow-up period and focus on goals other than early detection of new 
disease. Education of patients to report new symptoms early is of vital 
importance as the majority of new disease presents symptomatically. Other health 
care professionals such as specialist nurses and dentists need to play an 
important leading role in survivorship care. Remote consultations may be useful 
to perform more efficient and patient-centred follow-up care.
CONCLUSION: Routine follow-up needs to be seen as an integrated part of an 
individualized survivorship plan that is provided by the entire 
multidisciplinary team.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jop.13147
PMID: 33270280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. HIST1H1E Syndrome.

Burkardt D(1), Tatton-Brown K(2)(3).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2020 Dec 3 [updated 2022 Dec 15].

Author information:
(1)National Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, Maryland
(2)South West Thames Regional Genetics Service, St George's University Hospitals 
NHS Foundation Trust, St George's University of London, London, United Kingdom
(3)Institute of Cancer Research, Surrey, United Kingdom

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: The name HIST1H1E syndrome has been proposed as a 
mnemonic for the characteristic features of this emerging, recognizable 
phenotype: hypotonia; intellectual disability with behavioral issues; skeletal; 
testes (undescended) and thyroid; heart anomalies (most commonly atrial septal 
defect); and ectodermal issues (including sparse hair, thin nails, and abnormal 
dentition). In the 47 affected individuals reported to date, predominant 
findings were intellectual disability (ranging from mild to profound) and 
behavioral issues (combinations of anxiety/phobias, obsessive behaviors, 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, and autistic spectrum disorder/traits 
among others). Skeletal involvement can include scoliosis and decreased bone 
mineral density. Other findings in some include seizures, craniosynostosis, and 
hearing loss. Life expectancy does not appear to be reduced in HIST1H1E 
syndrome.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of HIST1H1E syndrome is established in a 
proband with suggestive findings and a heterozygous pathogenic variant in H1-4 
(formerly HIST1H1E) identified by molecular genetic testing.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Management by multidisciplinary 
specialists is recommended, including but not limited to developmental 
pediatrics/behavioral psychology, neurosurgery/neurology, urology, cardiology, 
endocrinology, ophthalmology, orthopedics, and dentistry. Surveillance: Routine 
periodic assessment of significant issues as per multidisciplinary specialists.
GENETIC COUNSELING: HIST1H1E syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder 
typically caused by a de novo pathogenic variant. To date, all probands reported 
with HIST1H1E syndrome whose parents have undergone molecular genetic testing 
have the disorder as a result of a de novo H1-4 pathogenic variant. If the H1-4 
pathogenic variant found in the proband cannot be detected in the leukocyte DNA 
of either parent, the recurrence risk to sibs is estimated to be 1% because of 
the theoretic possibility of parental germline mosaicism. Once the H1-4 
pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal 
testing and preimplantation genetic testing are possible.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 33270410


983. Ann Am Thorac Soc. 2021 May;18(5):780-787. doi:
10.1513/AnnalsATS.202005-451OC.

Longitudinal Changes in Clinical Features, Management, and Outcomes of 
Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis. A Nationwide Cohort Study.

Moon SW(1), Kim SY(1), Chung MP(2), Yoo H(2), Jeong SH(3), Kim DS(4), Song 
JW(4), Lee HL(5), Choi SM(6), Kim YW(6), Kim YH(7), Park CS(8), Park SW(8), Park 
JS(9), Jegal Y(10), Lee J(11), Uh ST(12), Kim TH(13), Lee JH(14), Kim YH(15), 
Shin B(16), Lee HK(17), Yang SH(18), Lee H(19), Kim SH(19), Lee EJ(20), Choi 
HS(21), Shin H(22), Park YB(23), Shin JW(24), Park MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonology, Department of Internal Medicine, Institute of Chest 
Diseases, Severance Hospital, and.
(2)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, 
School of Medicine, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Gil Medical Center, Gachon Medical School, 
Incheon, South Korea.
(4)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Asan Medical Center, 
University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, Inha University, 
Incheon, South Korea.
(6)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, College of Medicine, Seoul National University, Seoul, South Korea.
(7)Division of Allergy and Pulmonology, Department of Internal Medicine, Bucheon 
St. Mary's Hospital, School of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, 
Bucheon-si, South Korea.
(8)Division of Allergy and Respiratory Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Soonchunhyang University Bucheon Hospital, Bucheon-si, South Korea.
(9)Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 
Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seongnam-si, South Korea.
(10)Division of PulmonaryMedicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Ulsan 
University Hospital, College of Medicine, University of Ulsan, Ulsan, South 
Korea.
(11)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, Department of 
Internal Medicine, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine, The Catholic 
University of Korea, Seoul, South Korea.
(12)Division of Pulmonary and Allergy Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Soonchunhyang University Hospital, Seoul, South Korea.
(13)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Hanyang University Guri 
Hospital, College of Medicine, Hanyang University, Guri, South Korea.
(14)Division of Pulmonology, Department of Internal Medicine, Haeundae Paik 
Hospital, College of Medicine, Inje University, Busan, South Korea.
(15)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Kyung Hee University Hospital at Gangdong, and.
(16)Department of Internal Medicine, Wonju College of Medicine, Yonsei 
University, Wonju, South Korea.
(17)Department of Internal Medicine, Busan Paik Hospital, Inje University, 
Busan, South Korea.
(18)Division of Pulmonary, Department of Internal Medicine, College of Medicine, 
Wonkwang University, Iksan, South Korea.
(19)Department of Internal Medicine, College of Medicine, Hanyang University, 
Seoul, South Korea.
(20)Division of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Korea University Anam Hospital, College of Medicine, Korea University, 
Seoul, South Korea.
(21)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Kyung Hee Medical 
Center, School of Medicine, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, South Korea.
(22)Biostatistics Collaboration Unit, Department of Biomedical Systems 
Informatics, College of Medicine, Yonsei University, Seoul, South Korea.
(23)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical 
Care Medicine, Kangdong Sacred Heart Hospital, Hallym University, Seoul, South 
Korea; and.
(24)Division of Pulmonary Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, College of 
Medicine, Chung Ang University, Seoul, South Korea.

Rationale: In recent decades, diagnosis and treatment recommendations for 
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) have changed. In Korea, the average life 
expectancy has increased, unmet healthcare needs have been reduced, and the 
number of computed tomographic examinations performed has nearly doubled. The 
Korean Interstitial Lung Disease Study Group conducted a nationwide cohort study 
for idiopathic interstitial pneumonia, including IPF, and established a registry 
for IPF.Objectives: Using study data collected by the study group, this study 
aimed to evaluate longitudinal changes in clinical features, diagnosis, 
treatment, and mortality and analyze the extent to which changes in medication 
usage affected IPF-associated mortality.Methods: The study population included 
newly diagnosed patients with IPF from a cohort study (January 2002 to September 
2008, n = 1,839, 2008 group) and prospective registry (January 2012 to August 
2018, n = 1,345, 2018 group). Survival curves were estimated using the 
Kaplan-Meier method, and Cox regression models were used to identify 
mortality-associated risk factors in each group.Results: The 2018 group was 
younger, had fewer symptoms, had less honeycombing, underwent more serologic 
autoimmune marker and pulmonary function tests, had higher oxygen partial 
pressure and lower carbon dioxide partial pressure values, was less frequently 
diagnosed by surgical biopsy, and had better survival than the 2008 group. 
Steroid use and conservative care declined, whereas N-acetylcysteine use 
increased in this group. Antifibrotic agents were used in only the 2018 group. 
In the 2008 group, N-acetylcysteine was associated with lower mortality, whereas 
conservative care was associated with higher mortality. In the 2018 group, the 
use of antifibrotic agents was associated with lower mortality, and steroid use 
was associated with higher mortality. The survival rates in the 2008 and 2018 
non-antifibrotic agent subgroups were similar.Conclusions: This study analyzed 
national IPF cohort data spanning 17 years. In clinical practice, the IPF 
diagnosis was made earlier, steroid and immunosuppressive agent use was reduced, 
and antifibrotic agents were administered. The survival of patients with IPF has 
improved over the decades, and antifibrotic use was consistently associated with 
improved survival.Clinical trial registered with clinicaltrials.gov 
(NCT04160715).

DOI: 10.1513/AnnalsATS.202005-451OC
PMID: 33270528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2020 Nov;69(12):1-45.

United States Life Tables, 2018.

Arias E, Xu J.

Objectives-This report presents complete period life tables for the United 
States by Hispanic origin, race, and sex, based on age-specific death rates in 
2018. Methods-Data used to prepare the 2018 life tables are 2018 final mortality 
statistics; July 1, 2018 population estimates based on the 2010 decennial 
census; and 2018 Medicare data for persons aged 66-99. The methodology used to 
estimate the life tables for the Hispanic population remains unchanged from that 
developed for the publication of life tables by Hispanic origin for data year 
2006. The methodology used to estimate the 2018 life tables for all other groups 
was first implemented with data year 2008. In 2018, all 50 states and the 
District of Columbia reported deaths by race based on the 1997 Office of 
Management and Budget revised standards for the classification of federal data 
on race and ethnicity. As a result, race-specific life tables for 2018 presented 
in this report are based on the new standard and show estimates for single-race 
groups. These estimates are not completely comparable with those of previous 
years, which are based on bridged-race groups. To show trends and document the 
impact of changing to the 1997 standards, life expectancy estimates for 
2006-2018 are reported for bridged-race categories that were in use starting 
with data year 2000. Results-In 2018, the overall expectation of life at birth 
was 78.7 years, increasing from 78.6 in 2017. Between 2017 and 2018, life 
expectancy at birth increased by 0.1 year for males (76.1 to 76.2) and females 
(81.1 to 81.2). In 2018, life expectancy at birth was 81.8 for the Hispanic 
population, 78.6 for the non-Hispanic single-race white population, and 74.7 for 
the non-Hispanic single-race black population.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 33270553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. PLoS One. 2020 Dec 3;15(12):e0243055. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0243055. 
eCollection 2020.

Mortality and risk factors of disease in Nepal: Trend and projections from 1990 
to 2040.

Pandey AR(1), Chalise B(2), Shrestha N(1), Ojha B(1), Maskey J(1), Sharma D(1), 
Godwin P(1), Aryal KK(1).

Author information:
(1)Nepal Health Sector Programme 3 / Monitoring, Evaluation and Operational 
Research, Abt Associates, Kathmandu, Nepal.
(2)Graduate School for International Development and Cooperation, Hiroshima 
University, Hiroshima, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Between 1990 and 2017, Nepal experienced a shift in the burden of 
disease from communicable, maternal, neonatal and nutritional (CMNN) diseases to 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs). With an increasing ageing population and 
life-style changes including tobacco use, harmful alcohol consumption, unhealthy 
diets, and insufficient physical activity, the proportion of total deaths from 
NCDs will continue to increase. An analysis of current diseases pattern and 
projections of the trends informs planning of health interventions. This 
analysis aims to project the mortality and risk factor of disease until 2040, 
based on past trends.
METHODS: This study uses secondary data from the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 
Study which analyses historic data from 1990 to 2016 to predict key variables 
such as, the mortality rates, life expectancy and Years of Life Lost for 
different causes of death from 2017 to 2040. 'GBD Foresight Visualization', a 
visualisation tool publicly available in the webpage of Institute for Health 
Metrics and Evaluation was the source of data for this analysis. GBD forecasting 
uses three-component modelling process: the first component captures variations 
due to risk factors and interventions, the second takes into consideration the 
variation due to measures of development quantified as social development index 
and the third uses an autoregressive integrated moving average model to capture 
the unexplained component correlated over time. We extracted Nepal specific data 
from it and reported number of deaths, mortality rates (per 100,000 population) 
as well as causes of death for the period 1990 to 2040.
RESULTS: In 1990, CMNN diseases were responsible for approximately two-thirds 
(63.6%) of total deaths in Nepal. The proportion of the deaths from the CMNN 
diseases has reduced to 26.8% in 2015 and is estimated to be about a fifth of 
the 1990 figure (12.47%) in 2040. Conversely, deaths from NCDs reflect an upward 
trend. NCDs claimed a third of total deaths (29.91%) in the country in 1990, 
while in 2015, were responsible for about two-thirds of the total deaths 
(63.31%). In 2040, it is predicted that NCDs will contribute to over two-thirds 
(78.64%) of total deaths in the country. Less than a tenth (6.49%) of the total 
deaths in Nepal in 1990 were associated with injuries which increased to 13.04% 
in 2015 but is projected to decrease to 8.89% in 2040. In 1990, metabolic risk 
factors including high systolic blood pressure, high total cholesterol, high 
fasting plasma glucose, high body mass index and impaired kidney functions 
collectively contributed to a tenth of the total deaths (10.38%) in Nepal, 
whereas, in 2040 more than a third (37.31%) of the total deaths in the country 
could be attributed to it.
CONCLUSION: A reverse of the situation in 1990, NCDs are predicted to be the 
leading cause of deaths and metabolic risk factors are predicted to contribute 
to the highest proportion of deaths in 2040. NCDs could demand a major share of 
resources within the health sector requiring extensive multi-sectoral prevention 
measures, re-allocation of resources and re-organisation of the health system to 
cater for long-term care.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0243055
PMCID: PMC7714223
PMID: 33270728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


986. PLoS One. 2020 Dec 3;15(12):e0243411. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0243411. 
eCollection 2020.

The lower COVID-19 related mortality and incidence rates in Eastern European 
countries are associated with delayed start of community circulation.

Ylli A(1)(2), Wu YY(3), Burazeri G(1)(4), Pirkle C(3), Sentell T(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Public Health, University of Medicine, 
Tirana, Albania.
(2)Institute of Public Health, Tirana, Albania.
(3)Office of Public Health Studies, University of Honolulu at Manoa, Honolulu, 
Hawaii, United States of America.
(4)Department of International Health, School CAPHRI (Care and Public Health 
Research Institute), Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this analysis was to assess the variations in 
COVID-19 related mortality in relation to the time differences in the 
commencement of virus circulation and containment measures in the European 
Region.
METHODS: The data for the current analysis (N = 50 countries) were retrieved 
from the John Hopkins University dataset on the 7th of May 2020, with countries 
as study units. A piecewise regression analysis was conducted with mortality and 
cumulative incidence rates introduced as dependent variables and time interval 
(days from the 22nd of January to the date when 100 first cases were reported) 
as the main predictor. The country average life expectancy at birth and 
outpatient contacts per person per year were statistically adjusted for in the 
regression model.
RESULTS: Mortality and incidence were strongly and inversely intercorrelated 
with days from January 22, respectively -0.83 (p<0.001) and -0.73 (p<0.001). 
Adjusting for average life expectancy and outpatients contacts per person per 
year, between days 33 to 50 from the 22nd of the January, the average mortality 
rate decreased by 30.1/million per day (95% CI: 22.7, 37.6, p<0.001). During 
interval 51 to 73 days, the change in mortality was no longer statistically 
significant but still showed a decreasing trend. A similar relationship with 
time interval was found for incidence. Life expectancy and outpatients contacts 
per person per year were not associated with mortality rate.
CONCLUSION: Countries in Europe that had the earliest COVID-19 circulation 
suffered the worst consequences in terms of health outcomes, specifically 
mortality. The drastic social isolation measures, quickly undertaken in response 
to those initial outbreaks appear effective, especially in Eastern European 
countries, where community circulation started after March 11th. The study 
demonstrates that efforts to delay the early spread of the virus may have saved 
an average 30 deaths daily per one million inhabitants.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0243411
PMCID: PMC7714339
PMID: 33270782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


987. Lancet Public Health. 2020 Dec;5(12):e650-e660. doi: 
10.1016/S2468-2667(20)30113-4.

Frailty index and all-cause and cause-specific mortality in Chinese adults: a 
prospective cohort study.

Fan J(1), Yu C(1), Guo Y(2), Bian Z(3), Sun Z(1), Yang L(4), Chen Y(4), Du H(4), 
Li Z(5), Lei Y(5), Sun D(1), Clarke R(6), Chen J(7), Chen Z(6), Lv J(8), Li 
L(1); China Kadoorie Biobank Collaborative Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Peking 
University, Beijing, China.
(2)Peking University Health Science Center, and Key Laboratory of Molecular 
Cardiovascular Sciences, Ministry of Education, Peking University, Beijing, 
China.
(3)Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.
(4)Clinical Trial Service Unit and Epidemiological Studies Unit, Nuffield 
Department of Population Health, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK; Medical 
Research Council Population Health Research Unit, Nuffield Department of 
Population Health, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(5)Noncommunicable Diseases Prevention and Control Department, Maiji Centre for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Tianshui, China.
(6)Clinical Trial Service Unit and Epidemiological Studies Unit, Nuffield 
Department of Population Health, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(7)China National Center for Food Safety Risk Assessment, Beijing, China.
(8)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Peking 
University, Beijing, China; Peking University Institute of Environmental 
Medicine, Peking University, Beijing, China; Peking University Health Science 
Center, and Key Laboratory of Molecular Cardiovascular Sciences, Ministry of 
Education, Peking University, Beijing, China. Electronic address: 
lvjun@bjmu.edu.cn.

Comment in
    Lancet Public Health. 2020 Dec;5(12):e635-e636.

BACKGROUND: The fraily index is a useful proxy measure of accelerated biological 
ageing and in estimating all-cause and cause-specific mortality in older 
individuals in European and US populations. However, the predictive value of the 
frailty index in other populations outside of Europe and the USA and in adults 
younger than 50 years is unknown. We aimed to examine the association between 
the frailty index and mortality in a population of Chinese adults.
METHODS: In this prospective cohort study, we used data from the China Kadoorie 
Biobank. We included adults aged 30-79 years from ten areas (five urban areas 
and five rural areas) of China who had no missing values for the items that made 
up the frailty index. We did not exclude participants on the basis of baseline 
morbidity status. We calculated the follow-up person-years from the baseline 
date to either the date of death, loss to follow-up, or Dec 31, 2017, whichever 
came first, through linkage with the registries of China's Disease Surveillance 
Points system and local residential records. Active follow-up visits to local 
communities were done annually for participants who were not linked to any 
established registries. Causes of death from official death certificates were 
supplemented, if necessary, by reviewing medical records or doing standard 
verbal autopsy procedures. The frailty index was calculated using 28 baseline 
variables, all of which were health status deficits measured by use of 
questionnaires and physical examination. We defined three categories of frailty 
status: robust (frailty index ≤0·10), prefrail (frailty index >0·10 to <0·25), 
and frail (frailty index ≥0·25). The primary outcomes were all-cause mortality 
and cause-specific mortality in Chinese adults aged 30-79 years. We used a Cox 
proportional hazards model to estimate the associations between the frailty 
index and all-cause and cause-specific mortality, adjusting for chronological 
age, education, and lifestyle factors.
FINDINGS: 512 723 participants, recruited between June 25, 2004, and July 15, 
2008, were followed up for a median of 10·8 years (IQR 10·2-13·1; total 
follow-up 5 551 974 person-years). 291 954 (56·9%) people were categorised as 
robust, 205 075 (40·0%) people were categorised as prefrail, and 15 694 (3·1%) 
people were categorised as frail. Women aged between 45 years and 79 years had a 
higher mean frailty index and a higher prevalence of frailty than did men. 
During follow-up, 49 371 deaths were recorded. After adjustment for established 
and potential risk factors for death, each 0·1 increment in the frailty index 
was associated with a higher risk of all-cause mortality (hazard ratio [HR] 
1·68, 95% CI 1·66-1·71). Such associations were stronger among younger adults 
than among older adults (pinteraction<0·0001), with HRs per 0·1 increment of the 
frailty index of 1·95 (95% CI 1·87-2·03) for those younger than 50 years, 1·80 
(1·76-1·83) for those aged 50-64 years, and 1·56 (1·53-1·59) for those 65 years 
and older. After adjustments, there was no difference between the sexes in the 
association between the frailty index and all-cause mortality 
(pinteraction=0·75). For each 0·1 increment of the frailty index, the 
corresponding HRs for risk of death were 1·89 (95% CI 1·83-1·94) from ischaemic 
heart disease, 1·84 (1·79-1·89) from cerebrovascular disease, 1·19 (1·16-1·22) 
from cancer, 2·54 (2·45-2·63) from respiratory disease, 1·78 (1·59-2·00) from 
infection, and 1·78 (1·73-1·83) from all other causes.
INTERPRETATION: The frailty index is associated with all-cause and 
cause-specific mortality independent of chronological age in younger and older 
Chinese adults. The identification of younger adults with accelerated ageing by 
use of surrogate measures could be useful for the prevention of premature death 
and the extension of healthy active life expectancy.
FUNDING: The National Natural Science Foundation of China, the National Key R&D 
Program of China, the Chinese Ministry of Science and Technology, the Kadoorie 
Charitable Foundation, and the Wellcome Trust.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2468-2667(20)30113-4
PMCID: PMC7708389
PMID: 33271078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Arthroscopy. 2021 Feb;37(2):624-634.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.arthro.2020.09.020.
Epub  2020 Dec 1.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Nonoperative Management Versus Early Drilling for 
Stable Osteochondritis Dissecans Lesions of the Knee in Skeletally Immature 
Patients.

LeBrun DG(1), DeFrancesco CJ(1), Fabricant PD(2), Lawrence JTR(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, 
New York, U.S.A.
(2)Division of Pediatric Orthopaedics, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, 
New York, U.S.A.
(3)Division of Orthopaedics, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, U.S.A.. Electronic address: lawrencej@email.chop.edu.

Comment in
    Arthroscopy. 2021 Feb;37(2):635-637.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a trial of nonoperative 
management versus early drilling in the treatment of skeletally immature 
patients with stable osteochondritis dissecans (OCD) of the knee.
METHODS: A decision tree model was used to compare the cost-effectiveness of a 
trial of nonoperative management versus early drilling (within 6 weeks of the 
first office visit) from payer and societal perspectives over a 3-year time 
horizon. Relevant transition probabilities, costs (in 2019 US dollars based on 
Medicare reimbursement), health state utilities, and times to healing were 
derived from the literature. The principal outcome measure was the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). One- and 2-way sensitivity analyses were 
performed on pertinent model parameters to validate the robustness of the 
base-case results using a conservative willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold of 
$50,000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). The Consolidated Health Economic 
Evaluation Reporting Standards checklist for reporting economic evaluations was 
used.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis from a payer perspective, early drilling was 
more effective (2.51 versus 2.27 QALYs), more costly ($4,655 versus $3,212), and 
overall more cost-effective (ICER $5,839/QALY) relative to nonoperative 
management. In the base-case analysis from a societal perspective, early 
drilling dominated nonoperative management owing to its increased effectiveness 
(2.51 versus 2.27 QALYs) and decreased cost ($13,098 versus $18,149). These 
results were stable across broad ranges on sensitivity analysis. Based on 1-way 
threshold analyses from a payer perspective, early drilling remained 
cost-effective as long it cost less than $19,840, the disutility of surgery was 
greater than -0.40, or the probability of successful early drilling was greater 
than 0.62.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the traditional approach to stable OCD lesions of the knee 
in skeletally immature patients has been a trial of nonoperative management, our 
data suggest that early drilling may be cost-effective from both payer and 
societal perspectives.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: III, economic and decision analysis.

Copyright © 2020 Arthroscopy Association of North America. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arthro.2020.09.020
PMID: 33271176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Mar Drugs. 2020 Dec 1;18(12):612. doi: 10.3390/md18120612.

Effect of Nitrogen Sources on Omega-3 Polyunsaturated Fatty Acid Biosynthesis 
and Gene Expression in Thraustochytriidae sp.

Li S(1)(2)(3)(4), Hu Z(1)(3)(4), Yang X(1)(3)(4), Li Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Guangdong Technology Research Center for Marine Algal Bioengineering, 
Guangdong Key Laboratory of Plant Epigenetics, College of Life Sciences and 
Oceanography, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518060, China.
(2)Faculty of Health and Environmental Sciences, School of Science, Auckland 
University of Technology, Auckland 1142, New Zealand.
(3)Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Marine Biological Resources and Ecology 
Environment, Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Microbial Genetic Engineering, College 
of Life Sciences and Oceanography, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518055, China.
(4)Longhua Innovation Institute for Biotechnology, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 
518060, China.

The molecular mechanism that contributes to nitrogen source dependent omega-3 
polyunsaturated fatty acid (n-3 PUFA) synthesis in marine oleaginous protists 
Thraustochytriidae sp., was explored in this study. The fatty acid (FA) 
synthesis was significantly influenced by the supplement of various levels of 
sodium nitrate (SN) (1-50 mM) or urea (1-50 mM). Compared with SN (50 mM) 
cultivation, cells from urea (50 mM) cultivation accumulated 1.16-fold more n-3 
PUFAs (49.49% docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) (w/w, of total FAs) and 5.28% 
docosapentaenoic acid (DPA) (w/w, of total FAs)). Strikingly higher quantities 
of short chain FAs (<18 carbons) (52.22-fold of that in urea cultivation) were 
produced from SN cultivation. Ten candidate reference genes (RGs) were screened 
by using four statistical methods (geNorm, NormFinder, Bestkeeper and 
RefFinder). MFT (Mitochondrial folate transporter) and NUC (Nucleolin) were 
determined as the stable RGs to normalize the RT-qPCR (real-time quantitative 
polymerase chain reaction) data of essential genes related to n-3 
PUFAs-synthesis. Our results elucidated that the gene transcripts of 
delta(3,5)-delta(2,4)-dienoyl-CoA isomerase, enoyl-CoA hydratase, fatty acid 
elongase 3, long-chain fatty acid acyl-CoA ligase, and acetyl-CoA carboxylase 
were up-regulated under urea cultivation, contributing to the extension and 
unsaturated bond formation. These findings indicated that regulation of the 
specific genes through nitrogen source could greatly stimulate n-3 PUFA 
production in Thraustochytriidae sp.

DOI: 10.3390/md18120612
PMCID: PMC7760700
PMID: 33271856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


990. Circ Cardiovasc Interv. 2020 Dec;13(12):e010226. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCINTERVENTIONS.120.010226. Epub 2020 Dec 4.

Planning for the Next Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement Starts Today.

Cavender MA(1), Forrest JK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine (Cardiology), University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill (M.A.C.).
(2)Department of Internal Medicine (Cardiology), Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, CT (J.K.F.).

Comment on
    Circ Cardiovasc Interv. 2020 Dec;13(12):e009496.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCINTERVENTIONS.120.010226
PMID: 33272033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2020;17(9):819-822. doi:
10.2174/1567205017666201203121907.

How Much Value Would a Treatment for Alzheimer's Disease Offer? 
Cost-Effectiveness Thresholds for Pricing a Disease-Modifying Therapy.

Jun H(1), Cho SK(2), Aliyev ER(3), Mattke S(4), Suen SC(5).

Author information:
(1)Sol Price School of Public Policy, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, CA 90007, United States.
(2)University of Houston College of Pharmacy, Houston, TX 77204, United States.
(3)School of Pharmacy and Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics, 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90007, United States.
(4)Center for Economic and Social Research, University of Southern California, 
Los Angeles, CA 90007, United States.
(5)Daniel J Epstein Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, Viterbi 
School of Engineering, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90089, 
United States.

BACKGROUND: Recent trials suggest that disease-modifying therapy (DMT) for 
Alzheimer's disease may become available soon. With the expected high price and 
a large patient pool, the budget impact will be substantial.
