(6)Information Services Group, University of Edinburgh, EH8 9YL Edinburgh, 
United Kingdom.
(7)Human Paleoecology and Archaeometry Laboratory, Department of Anthropology, 
University of Nevada, Reno, NV 89557-0096.
(8)Museum of Natural and Cultural History, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR 
97403.
(9)Department of Applied Sciences, Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, 
Northumbria University, NE1 8ST Newcastle Upon-Tyne, United Kingdom.
(10)Department of Human Anatomy and Physiology, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
University of Johannesburg, Aukland Park 2006, South Africa.
(11)School of Forensic and Applied Sciences, University of Central Lancashire, 
PR1 2HE Preston, United Kingdom.
(12)Department of Archaeology, University of Cambridge, CB2 3DZ Cambridge, 
United Kingdom.
(13)Pacific Gas and Electric Company, Fresno, CA 93710.
(14)Archaeovision UK, Chesham, HP5 3DQ, United Kingdom.
(15)University of California Cooperative Extension, Bakersfield, CA 93307.

While debates have raged over the relationship between trance and rock art, 
unambiguous evidence of the consumption of hallucinogens has not been reported 
from any rock art site in the world. A painting possibly representing the 
flowers of Datura on the ceiling of a Californian rock art site called Pinwheel 
Cave was discovered alongside fibrous quids in the same ceiling. Even though 
Native Californians are historically documented to have used Datura to enter 
trance states, little evidence exists to associate it with rock art. A 
multianalytical approach to the rock art, the quids, and the archaeological 
context of this site was undertaken. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry 
(LC-MS) results found hallucinogenic alkaloids scopolamine and atropine in the 
quids, while scanning electron microscope analysis confirms most to be Datura 
wrightii Three-dimensional (3D) analyses of the quids indicate the quids were 
likely masticated and thus consumed in the cave under the paintings. 
Archaeological evidence and chronological dating shows the site was well 
utilized as a temporary residence for a range of activities from Late Prehistory 
through Colonial Periods. This indicates that Datura was ingested in the cave 
and that the rock painting represents the plant itself, serving to codify 
communal rituals involving this powerful entheogen. These results confirm the 
use of hallucinogens at a rock art site while calling into question previous 
assumptions concerning trance and rock art imagery.

Copyright © 2020 the Author(s). Published by PNAS.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2014529117
PMCID: PMC7733795
PMID: 33229522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.


840. Neural Regen Res. 2021 May;16(5):963-966. doi: 10.4103/1673-5374.297063.

Improving wellbeing of community-dwelling people with mild cognitive impairment: 
the SENIOR (SystEm of Nudge theory based ICT applications for OldeR citizens) 
project.

Cammisuli DM(1), Pietrabissa G(2), Castelnuovo G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Biomedical Sciences, The University of Milan (La 
Statale), Milan, Italy.
(2)Psychology Research Laboratory, Istituto di ricovero e cura a carattere 
scientifico Auxologico Institute; Department of Psychology, Catholic University 
of the Sacred Heart, Milan, Italy.

Population aging with longer life expectancy represents one of the most relevant 
challenges of the next future, also because of a significant proportion of older 
adult people may present with dementia. Motivating senior citizens with mild 
cognitive impairment to maintain their independence and functional abilities, 
improve health status and quality of life as well as social interactions, 
constitutes the main target of preventive medicine. According to a nudge 
theoretical approach, the SENIOR (SystEm of Nudge theory based ICT applications 
for OldeR citizens) project- developed thanks to the collaboration among 
Catholic University of the Sacred Heart, Bicocca University and IRCCS 
Auxiologico Institute in Milan (Italy) - has been designed to adopt an advanced 
information and communication technology coaching system able to collect and 
integrate physiological, psychological and behavioral data, with the final aim 
of interacting with community-dwelling elderly people suffering from mild 
cognitive impairment and of providing them personalized feedback on lifestyle 
management. The SENIOR project proposes to use a smart-watch app for alerting 
family doctors, sharing information with family members in specific cases and 
monitoring patients at higher risk in hospital Units, in order to ameliorate 
health of senior citizens with mild cognitive impairment.

DOI: 10.4103/1673-5374.297063
PMCID: PMC8178777
PMID: 33229736

Conflict of interest statement: None841. BMJ Nutr Prev Health. 2020 May 20;3(1):67-73. doi:
10.1136/bmjnph-2020-000096.  eCollection 2020.

Avoidance of vitamin D deficiency to slow the COVID-19 pandemic.

Kohlmeier M(1).

Author information:
(1)UNC Nutrition Research Institute, University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill, Kannapolis, North Carolina, USA.

Vitamin D deficiency, which impedes good immune function, is common during 
winter and spring in regions of high latitude. There is good evidence that 
vitamin D deficiency contributes to the seasonal increase of virus infections of 
the respiratory tract, from the common cold to influenza, and now possibly also 
COVID-19. This communication explores key factors that make it more likely, 
particularly in combination, that individuals are vitamin D deficient. These 
factors include old age, obesity, dark skin tone and common genetic variants 
that impede vitamin D status. Precision nutrition is an approach that aims to 
consider known personal risk factors and health circumstances to provide more 
effective nutrition guidance in health and disease. In regard to avoiding 
vitamin D deficiency, people with excess body fat, a dark skin tone or older age 
usually need to use a moderately dosed daily vitamin D supplement, particularly 
those living in a high-latitude region, getting little ultraviolet B exposure 
due to air pollution or staying mostly indoors. Carriers of the GC 
(group-specific component) rs4588 AA genotype also are more likely to become 
deficient. Very high-dosed supplements with more than 4000 IU vitamin D are 
rarely needed or justified. A state-by-state Mendelian randomisation analysis of 
excess COVID-19 mortality of African-Americans in the USA shows a greater 
disparity in northern states than in southern states. It is conceivable that 
vitamin D adequacy denies the virus easy footholds and thereby slows spreading 
of the contagion. This finding should drive home the message that vitamin D 
supplementation is particularly important for individuals with dark skin tones. 
Vitamin D deficiency, even for a few months during the winter and spring season, 
must be rigorously remedied because of its many adverse health impacts that 
include decreased life expectancy and increased mortality. Slowing the spread of 
COVID-19 would be an added bonus.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjnph-2020-000096
PMCID: PMC7295862
PMID: 33230496

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


842. Heart Fail Rev. 2021 May;26(3):587-601. doi: 10.1007/s10741-020-10055-9.
Epub  2020 Nov 24.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of mitral valve repair with the MitraClip delivery 
system for patients with mitral regurgitation: a systematic review.

Rezapour A(1), Azari S(2)(3), Arabloo J(1), Pourasghari H(4), Behzadifar M(5), 
Alipour V(1), Omidi N(6), Sadeghian S(7), Aghajani H(7), Bragazzi NL(8).

Author information:
(1)Health Management and Economics Research Center, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Health Management and Economics Research Center, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Samadazari1010@gmail.com.
(3)Hospital Management Research Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran. Samadazari1010@gmail.com.
(4)Hospital Management Research Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(5)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Lorestan University of Medical 
Sciences, Khorramabad, Iran.
(6)Department of Cardiology, Tehran Heart Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Department of Interventional Cardiology, Tehran Heart Center, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(8)Laboratory for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (LIAM), Department of 
Mathematics and Statistics, York University, Toronto, Canada.

To assess the cost-effectiveness of mitral valve repair with the MitraClip 
delivery system for patients with mitral regurgitation and heart failure, a 
systematic literature search was conducted in various electronic databases to 
January 3, 2020. Eligibility criteria are the population (patients with mitral 
regurgitation (MR)), intervention (transcatheter mitral valve repair using the 
MitraClip), comparator (conventional medical treatment), outcomes, and designs 
(Model-based or trial-based full economic evaluations).The quality of included 
studies was assessed using the CHEERS checklist. Mortality and survival rate, 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY), life years gained (LYG), total cost, and the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) regarding the use of MitraClip 
System were considered as the key outcomes. Eight articles were eligible for 
full-text assessment. Ultimately, a total of seven studies were considered in 
the current systematic review. Results demonstrated that MitraClip reduces 
mortality rate and increases survival rate. The mortality rate at 1 year and 
10 years was 16.7% versus 29.77% and 70.9% versus 98.8%, respectively. Total 
cost data based on 2019 USD show that the MitraClip has the highest cost in the 
USA ($121,390) and the lowest cost in Italy ($33,062). The results showed that 
in all selected countries, willingness-to-pay (WTP) thresholds are upper than 
the cost per QALY; also, the highest ICER for the MitraClip is in the USA 
($55,600/QALY) and the lowest in Italy ($10,616/QALY). To conclude, evidence 
from this systematic review suggests that MitraClip Delivery System improved 
both life expectancy and QALY compared with medical treatment in patients at 
high surgical risk and it was also a cost-effective treatment option for 
patients with mitral regurgitation.

DOI: 10.1007/s10741-020-10055-9
PMID: 33230582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Glob Chang Biol. 2020 Nov 24;27(5):1111-25. doi: 10.1111/gcb.15456. Online
ahead  of print.

Inhibitory effects of climate change on the growth and extracellular enzyme 
activities of a widespread Antarctic soil fungus.

Misiak M(1)(2), Goodall-Copestake WP(1), Sparks TH(3)(4), Worland MR(1), Boddy 
L(2), Magan N(5), Convey P(1), Hopkins DW(6), Newsham KK(1).

Author information:
(1)British Antarctic Survey, NERC, Cambridge, UK.
(2)Cardiff School of Biosciences, Cardiff, UK.
(3)Institute of Zoology, Poznań University of Life Sciences, Poznań, Poland.
(4)Museum of Zoology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(5)Applied Mycology Group, Environment and AgriFood Theme, Cranfield University, 
Cranfield, UK.
(6)Scotland's Rural College, Edinburgh, UK.

Temperatures approaching or exceeding 20°C have been measured during summer in 
polar regions at the surfaces of barren fellfield soils under cloudless skies 
around solar noon. However, despite the upper temperature limit for the growth 
of cold-adapted microbes-which are abundant in polar soils and have pivotal 
roles in nutrient cycling-typically being close to this temperature, previous 
studies have not addressed the consequences of climate change for the metabolism 
of these organisms in the natural environment. Here in a 5-year field experiment 
on Alexander Island in the southern maritime Antarctic, we show that the 
abundance of Pseudogymnoascus roseus, the most widespread decomposer fungus in 
maritime Antarctic fellfield soils, is reduced by 1-2 orders of magnitude when 
irrigated and nutrient-amended soils are warmed to >20°C during summer. 
Laboratory experiments under conditions mimicking those during midsummer in the 
natural environment indicated that the hyphal extension rates of P. roseus 
isolates and the activities of five extracellular enzymes are reduced by 54%-96% 
at high water availability after exposure to temperatures cycling daily from 2 
to 21°C and 2 to 24°C, relative to temperatures cycling from 2 to 18°C. Given 
that the temperatures of surface soils at the study site already reach 19°C 
during midsummer, the observations reported here suggest that, at predicted 
rates of warming arising from moderate greenhouse gas emissions, inhibitory 
effects of climate change on the metabolism of P. roseus could manifest 
themselves within the next few decades. Furthermore, with peak temperatures at 
the surfaces of fellfield soils at other maritime Antarctic locations and in 
High Arctic and alpine regions already exceeding 20°C during summer, the 
observations suggest that climate warming has the potential to inhibit the 
growth of other cold-adapted microbes, with negative effects on soils as the 
Earth's climate continues to warm.

© 2020 The Authors. Global Change Biology published by John Wiley && Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/gcb.15456
PMCID: PMC7898924
PMID: 33230837


844. Am Surg. 2020 Nov;86(11):1473-1477. doi: 10.1177/0003134820973028. Epub 2020
Nov  24.

Malignant Bowel Obstruction in the Time of the COVID-19 Pandemic.

Fallon EA(1), Miner TJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery, Warren Alpert Medical 
School of Brown University, USA.

Regardless of the anatomic site of malignant bowel obstruction leading to the 
need for palliative intervention, decisions must consider the natural history of 
the disease, the availability and success of nonsurgical treatments, the 
individual patient's symptom severity, goals, preferences, quality, and 
expectancy of life. Therapy for symptoms must remain flexible and individualized 
because the specific needs of the patient will change as disease progresses. 
Because strangulation is uncommon, malignant bowel obstruction is usually not a 
surgical emergency. There is usually time to proceed with deliberate and 
thoughtful decisions on how best to meet the needs and expectations of the 
individual patient and family. Providers must be well versed in both surgical 
and nonsurgical therapeutic options, the natural history of disease, and be 
active and compassionate providers to foster meaningful ongoing dialogue focused 
on excellent care even after cure is no longer possible. The palliative triangle 
not only allows patient, family, and surgeon to effectively utilize the full 
continuum of care that can be delivered, but also it supports end-of-life 
decisions when continuity in care matters most. Due to social distancing 
requirements, the dynamics of communication between patient, family, and surgeon 
have changed. Zoom, Skype, and FaceTime have become tools in our communication 
armamentarium.

DOI: 10.1177/0003134820973028
PMID: 33231475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Termination of Life Support.

Dabi A(1), Rahman O(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2023 
Jan–.
2022 Oct 24.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Medical Branch School of Medicine
(2)Indiana University Health

Physicians in both inpatient or outpatient capacity are increasingly exposed to 
patients with terminal illnesses in both acute settings as well while dealing 
with patients with chronic illnesses. In the inpatient scenario, critical care 
and hospitalist physicians are often charged with the management of severely ill 
patients that reach the 'end-of-life' stage because of an acute catastrophic 
event or a rapid deterioration or complication of one or more chronic 
comorbidities.  Exposure to patients with advanced age, presence of an 
increasing number of chronic illnesses (such as cancer, heart failure, 
cerebrovascular accident, and renal failure), rising number of invasive 
procedures, and more recently, the effects of the novel Coronavirus infection of 
2019 (COVID-19), have led the doctors caring for these patients to manage 
situations where death is imminent. An end-of-life patient is defined as one 
with a life expectancy of fewer than 12 months, per the UK General Medical 
Council. This includes patients likely to die within a few hours or days. If 
given a choice, most people, including those who are healthy, in the West, would 
like to die at home. Due to the factors listed above, physicians need to be 
aware of the principles of end-of-life care. Physicians help take care of their 
patients with curative intent, but when that is not possible, it is equally 
important for them to provide the patients the option of what many patients 
describe as a dignified 'good death.' Most patients describe this as "pain-free, 
distress free, with good symptom control, preferably in a place of choice with 
people of choice around them." Many would also like to be a minimum burden on 
their families, get their personal affairs in order before dying, and maintain 
mental clarity if possible while retaining a sense of value for life spent with 
a feeling of closure. This may be summarized in the all-encompassing phrase 
"comfort measures." Application of comfort measures for the terminally ill 
patient hence requires an understanding of the disease process, therapeutic 
measures for symptom relief, social situations, and mechanisms involved in the 
placement of such patients.

Copyright © 2023, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 33231982

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Alok Dabi declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Omar Rahman 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


846. Aging (Albany NY). 2020 Nov 20;12(24):25700-25717. doi:
10.18632/aging.104180.  Epub 2020 Nov 20.

Inhibition of PAR-1 delays aging via activating AMPK in C. elegans.

Wu D(1), Cai W(2), Zhang X(1), Lan J(3), Zou L(1), Chen SJ(4), Wu Z(1), Chen 
D(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Model Animal Research 
Center of Medical School, Nanjing University, Pukou, Nanjing 210061, Jiangsu, 
China.
(2)Institute of Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, Huashan Hospital, 
Fudan University, Shanghai 200040, China.
(3)Affiliated Hospital of Guilin Medical University, Guilin 541001, Guangxi, 
China.
(4)Department of Mechanical, Aerospace, and Nuclear Engineering, Rensselaer 
Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY 12180, USA.

The antagonistic pleiotropy theory of aging suggests that genes essential for 
growth and development are likely to modulate aging later in life. Previous 
studies in C. elegans demonstrate that inhibition of certain developmentally 
essential genes during adulthood leads to significant lifespan extension. PAR-1, 
a highly conserved serine/threonine kinase, functions as a key cellular polarity 
regulator during the embryonic development. However, the role of PAR-1 during 
adulthood remains unknown. Here we show that inhibition of par-1 either by a 
temperature-sensitive mutant or by RNAi knockdown only during adulthood is 
sufficient to extend lifespan in C. elegans. Inhibition of par-1 also improves 
healthspan, as indicated by increased stress resistance, enhanced proteotoxicity 
resistance, as well as reduced muscular function decline over time. 
Additionally, tissue-enriched RNAi knockdown analysis reveals that PAR-1 mainly 
functions in the epidermis to regulate lifespan. Further genetic epistatic and 
molecular studies demonstrate that the effect of par-1 on lifespan requires the 
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), and RNAi knockdown of par-1 results in 
age-dependent AMPK activation and reduced lipid accumulation in the metabolic 
tissue. Taken together, our findings reveal a previously undescribed function of 
PAR-1 in adulthood, which will help to understand the molecular links between 
development and aging.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.104180
PMCID: PMC7803586
PMID: 33232266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: All authors have no 
conflicts of interest to declare.


847. Aging (Albany NY). 2020 Nov 24;12(24):24570-24578. doi:
10.18632/aging.104193.  Epub 2020 Nov 24.

Association between ageing population, median age, life expectancy and mortality 
in coronavirus disease (COVID-19).

Wang XQ(1)(2), Song G(1), Yang Z(1), Chen RJ(3), Zheng YL(1), Hu HY(1), Su X(1), 
Chen PJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sport Rehabilitation, Shanghai University of Sport, Shanghai, 
China.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Shanghai Shangti Orthopaedic Hospital, 
Shanghai, China.
(3)School of Public Health, Key Lab of Public Health Safety of the Ministry of 
Education and NHC Key Lab of Health Technology Assessment, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China.

As of May 5, 2020, the number of confirmed coronavirus disease (COVID-19) cases 
has been more than 3.5 million with 243,540 deaths. We aimed to determine the 
associations between ageing population, median age, life expectancy at birth and 
COVID-19 mortality. The numbers of COVID-19 cases and deaths in the European 
region were obtained from the World Health Organization database. The data on 
percentage of the population aged 65 and over, median age and life expectancy at 
birth were extracted from the World Factbook of Central Intelligence Agency. A 
total of 56 countries/areas in the Europe reported COVID-19 cases and deaths 
(1,121,853 cases and 100,938 deaths) on April 20, 2020. The results showed 
significant positive associations between COVID-19 mortality and ageing 
population (r =0.274; P =0.021), median age (r =0.255; P=0.029), male median age 
(r =0.284; P =0.017), female median age (r =0.224; P=0.049), life expectancy at 
birth (r =0.336; P=0.006), male life expectancy at birth (r =0.342; P=0.005), 
female life expectancy at birth (r =0.312; P=0.01) in the 56 European 
countries/areas. This study illustrated that COVID-19 mortality was positively 
associated with ageing population, median age, and life expectancy at birth.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.104193
PMCID: PMC7803535
PMID: 33232270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interests. All authors have submitted the ICMJE Form 
for Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest.


848. Aging (Albany NY). 2020 Nov 24;12(24):24604-24622. doi:
10.18632/aging.104196.  Epub 2020 Nov 24.

Control of lifespan and survival by Drosophila NF-κB signaling through 
neuroendocrine cells and neuroblasts.

Khor S(1), Cai D(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 
Bronx, NY 10461, USA.
(2)Diabetes Research Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 
10461, USA.
(3)Institute for Aging Research, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 
10461, USA.

We report a comparative analysis of the effects of immune activation in the fly 
nervous system using genetic activation models to target Drosophila NF-κB within 
Toll versus Imd pathways. Genetic gain-of-function models for either pathway 
pan-neuronally as well as in discrete subsets of neural cells including 
neuroendocrine insulin-producing cells (IPCs) or neuroblasts reduce fly 
lifespan, however, these phenotypes in IPCs and neuroblasts are stronger with 
Toll activation than Imd activation. Of note, while aging is influenced more by 
Toll/NF-κB activation in IPCs during adulthood, neuroblasts influence aging more 
substantially during development. The study then focused on Toll/NF-κB 
inhibition, revealing that IPCs or neuroblasts are important for the effects of 
lifespan and healthspan extension but in a life stage-dependent manner while 
some of these effects display sexual dimorphism. Importantly, co-inhibition of 
Toll/NF-κB pathway in IPCs and neuroblasts increased fly lifespan greater than 
either cell population, suggesting that independent mechanisms might exist. 
Toll/NF-κB inhibition in IPCs was also sufficient to enhance survival under 
various fatal stresses, supporting the additional benefits to fly healthspan. In 
conclusion, IPCs and neuroblasts are important for Drosophila NF-κB for 
controlling lifespan.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.104196
PMCID: PMC7803524
PMID: 33232282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: None of the authors 
declares a conflicts of interest.


849. J Insect Sci. 2020 Nov 1;20(6):28. doi: 10.1093/jisesa/ieaa129.

Behavioral and Developmental Responses of Habrobracon hebetor (Hymenoptera: 
Braconidae) to Larvae of Helicoverpa armigera (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) 
Inoculated With Various Concentrations of Bacillus thuringiensis var. kurstaki 
(Bacillales: Bacillacae).

Allahyari R(1), Aramideh S(1), Michaud JP(2), Safaralizadeh MH(1), Rezapanah 
MR(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Protection, Urmia University, Urmia, Iran.
(2)Department of Entomology, Kansas State University, Agricultural Research 
Center-Hays, Hays, KS.
(3)Department of Biological Control, Iranian Research Institute of Plant 
Protection, Agricultural Research Education and Extension Organization, Tehran, 
Iran.

Bacillus thuringiensis Berliner subsp. kurstaki (Btk) and Habrobracon hebetor 
Say are both biological control agents of Helicoverpa armigera Hubner. The 
present study evaluated their compatibility for combined application against 
this pest by examining the acceptability of Btk-inoculated hosts for H. hebetor 
females and testing for negative life-history impacts on developing progeny. 
Second-instar H. armigera larvae fed for 72 h on potted chickpea plants treated 
with three concentrations of Btk (LC15, LC35, and LC70) and were then used in 
bioassays of parasitoid development and parasitism behavior. Survival of 
parasitoids was significantly reduced, and immature development prolonged, on 
hosts fed chickpea plants treated with LC35 and LC70  Btk, but not on plants 
treated with LC15  Btk. Parasitoids failed to discriminate against hosts treated 
with LC15 or LC35  Btk in choice tests, but attacked fewer hosts treated with 
LC70  Btk, paralyzing and parasitizing more healthy hosts, and laying more eggs 
on them. In contrast, a no-choice test revealed that more hosts treated with 
LC35 and LC70  Btk were paralyzed compared with control or LC15-treated hosts, 
but the numbers of hosts parasitized and eggs laid did not vary among Btk 
treatments. Thus, females required an experience with healthy hosts, as they had 
in the choice test, to discriminate against diseased ones. We conclude that H. 
hebetor and Btk are compatible for joint application against H. armigera, which 
could potentially improve biological control of this pest.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/jisesa/ieaa129
PMCID: PMC7685395
PMID: 33232487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. J Res Adolesc. 2021 Jun;31(2):282-298. doi: 10.1111/jora.12596. Epub 2020
Nov  24.

Neighborhood Disorder and Risk-Taking Among Justice-Involved Youth-The Mediating 
Role of Life Expectancy.

Kan E(1), Knowles A(2), Peniche M(1), Frick PJ(3), Steinberg L(4), Cauffman 
E(1).

Author information:
(1)University of California, Irvine, USA.
(2)Arizona State University, USA.
(3)Louisiana State University & Australian Catholic University, USA.
(4)Temple University & King Abdulaziz University, USA.

Neighborhood disorder has been linked to perceptions of shorter life 
expectancies, and shorter life expectancies have been associated with greater 
risk-taking. Yet, no studies have combined these two pathways. Using data from 
the longitudinal Crossroads study, the present study assessed whether life 
expectancy mediates the association between neighborhood disorder and 
risk-taking-substance use, crime, and risky sex-among 1,093 justice-involved 
adolescents. Results indicate that neighborhood disorder was linked to lower 
estimated life expectancy which in turn related to higher rates of cigarette 
use, binge drinking, illicit drug use, offending, and casual sex. However, life 
expectancy did not explain the association between neighborhood disorder and 
marijuana use or inconsistent condom use.

© 2020 Society for Research on Adolescence.

DOI: 10.1111/jora.12596
PMID: 33232554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2021 Jul;30(7):956-963. doi:
10.1089/jwh.2020.8682.  Epub 2020 Nov 27.

Gender Disparity in the Funding of Diseases by the U.S. National Institutes of 
Health.

Mirin AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Independent Researcher, Castro Valley, California, USA.

Background: Gender bias has been an ongoing issue in health care, examples being 
underrepresentation of women in health studies, trivialization of women's 
physical complaints, and discrimination in the awarding of research grants. We 
examine here a different issue-gender disparity when it comes to the allocation 
of research funding among diseases. Materials and Methods: We perform an 
analysis of funding by the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) to ascertain 
possible gender disparity in its allocation of funds across diseases. We 
normalize funding level to disease burden, as measured by the Disability 
Adjusted Life Year, and we specifically consider diseases for which both disease 
burden and funding level are provided. We apply a power-law regression analysis 
to model funding commensurate with disease burden. Results: We find that in 
nearly three-quarters of the cases where a disease afflicts primarily one 
gender, the funding pattern favors males, in that either the disease affects 
more women and is underfunded (with respect to burden), or the disease affects 
more men and is overfunded. Moreover, the disparity between actual funding and 
that which is commensurate with burden is nearly twice as large for diseases 
that favor males versus those that favor females. A chi-square test yields a 
p-value of 0.015, suggesting that our conclusions are representative of the full 
NIH disease portfolio. Conclusions: NIH applies a disproportionate share of its 
resources to diseases that affect primarily men, at the expense of those that 
affect primarily women.

DOI: 10.1089/jwh.2020.8682
PMCID: PMC8290307
PMID: 33232627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No competing financial interests exist.


852. Cell. 2021 Jan 7;184(1):184-193.e10. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2020.11.016. Epub
2020  Nov 14.

Cryo-EM Structure of an Extended SARS-CoV-2 Replication and Transcription 
Complex Reveals an Intermediate State in Cap Synthesis.

Yan L(1), Ge J(2), Zheng L(2), Zhang Y(1), Gao Y(3), Wang T(1), Huang Y(1), Yang 
Y(1), Gao S(1), Li M(1), Liu Z(1), Wang H(4), Li Y(5), Chen Y(5), Guddat LW(6), 
Wang Q(4), Rao Z(7), Lou Z(8).

Author information:
(1)MOE Key Laboratory of Protein Science, School of Medicine, Tsinghua 
University, Beijing, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.
(3)MOE Key Laboratory of Protein Science, School of Medicine, Tsinghua 
University, Beijing, China; Shanghai Institute for Advanced Immunochemical 
Studies and School of Life Science and Technology, ShanghaiTech University, 
Shanghai, China.
(4)Shanghai Institute for Advanced Immunochemical Studies and School of Life 
Science and Technology, ShanghaiTech University, Shanghai, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Virology, Modern Virology Research Center, College of 
Life Sciences, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.
(6)School of Chemistry and Molecular Biosciences, The University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(7)MOE Key Laboratory of Protein Science, School of Medicine, Tsinghua 
University, Beijing, China; School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, 
Beijing, China; Shanghai Institute for Advanced Immunochemical Studies and 
School of Life Science and Technology, ShanghaiTech University, Shanghai, China. 
Electronic address: raozh@tsinghua.edu.cn.
(8)MOE Key Laboratory of Protein Science, School of Medicine, Tsinghua 
University, Beijing, China. Electronic address: louzy@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn.

Transcription of SARS-CoV-2 mRNA requires sequential reactions facilitated by 
the replication and transcription complex (RTC). Here, we present a structural 
snapshot of SARS-CoV-2 RTC as it transitions toward cap structure synthesis. We 
determine the atomic cryo-EM structure of an extended RTC assembled by 
nsp7-nsp82-nsp12-nsp132-RNA and a single RNA-binding protein, nsp9. Nsp9 binds 
tightly to nsp12 (RdRp) NiRAN, allowing nsp9 N terminus inserting into the 
catalytic center of nsp12 NiRAN, which then inhibits activity. We also show that 
nsp12 NiRAN possesses guanylyltransferase activity, catalyzing the formation of 
cap core structure (GpppA). The orientation of nsp13 that anchors the 5' 
extension of template RNA shows a remarkable conformational shift, resulting in 
zinc finger 3 of its ZBD inserting into a minor groove of paired template-primer 
RNA. These results reason an intermediate state of RTC toward mRNA synthesis, 
pave a way to understand the RTC architecture, and provide a target for 
antiviral development.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2020.11.016
PMCID: PMC7666536
PMID: 33232691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


853. Arch Cardiol Mex. 2020 Nov 24;91(2):202-207. doi: 10.24875/ACM.20000140.

[Disability adjusted life years lost due to acute, chronic disability and 
premature death in arterial hypertension].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Villarreal-Ríos E(1), Montoya-Cruz G(2), Vargas-Daza ER(1), Galicia-Rodríguez 
L(1), Escorcia-Reyes V(3), Cu-Flores LA(4).

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Investigación Epidemiológica y en Servicios de Salud Querétaro, 
Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social (IMSS), Querétaro, México.
(2)Unidad de Investigación Epidemiológica y en Servicios de Salud Querétaro, 
Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social (IMSS), Querétaro; Servicio de Medicina 
Familiar, Unidad de Medicina Familiar No 9, IMSS, Querétaro; México.
(3)Unidad de Medicina Familiar No 6, IMSS, San Juan del Río, Querétaro, México.
(4)Unidad de Medicina Familiar No 16, IMSS, Querétaro. México.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the disability adjusted life years in arterial 
hypertension without diabetes mellitus.
METHOD: Disability adjusted life years was determined from chronic disability 
(chronic kidney disease, heart disease and cerebral vascular event), acute 
disability (hypertensive crisis and hypertensive emergency) and premature death. 
Age of diagnosis, age of the complication, prevalence of the complication, 
duration of the acute event, number of acute events, time lived with 
hypertension, age of death and life expectancy were identified. In all cases a 
3% discount rate was applied, the estimate was made per 100,000.
RESULTS: When the total of women was used as a reference, the disability 
adjusted life years in women is 198,498.28. In men, using the total number of 
men as a reference, the value is 204,232.13. If the referent is the total 
population, in women the disability adjusted life years is 102,028.11 and in men 
99,256.98.
CONCLUSIONS: The disability adjusted life years in arterial hypertension without 
diabetes is different for men and women; the topic has many edges that must be 
studied.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Determinar la vida saludable perdida por hipertensión 
arterial sin diabetes mellitus.
MÉTODO: La vida saludable perdida se determinó a partir de la discapacidad 
crónica (enfermedad renal crónica, cardiopatía y evento vascular cerebral), la 
discapacidad aguda (crisis hipertensiva y emergencia hipertensiva) y la muerte 
prematura. Se identificaron la edad del diagnóstico, la edad de la complicación, 
la prevalencia de la complicación, la duración del evento agudo, el número de 
eventos agudos, el tiempo vivido con hipertensión, la edad de la muerte y la 
esperanza de vida. En todos los casos se aplicó una tasa de descuento del 3%. La 
estimación se realizó por 100,000.
RESULTADOS: Cuando se utilizó como referencia el total de mujeres, la vida 
saludable perdida en ellas es de 198,498.28. Empleando como referencia el total 
de hombres, el valor para ellos es de 204,232.13. Si el referente es el total de 
la población, para las mujeres la vida saludable perdida es de 102,028.11 y para 
los hombres es de 99,256.98.
CONCLUSIONES: La vida sWaludable perdida por hipertensión arterial sin diabetes 
es diferente en hombres y mujeres; no obstante, tiene muchas aristas que deben 
abordarse.

DOI: 10.24875/ACM.20000140
PMCID: PMC8295871
PMID: 33232969

Conflict of interest statement: Ninguno.


854. Food Res Int. 2020 Nov;137:109489. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2020.109489. Epub
2020  Jun 30.

Intermingling of gut microbiota with brain: Exploring the role of probiotics in 
battle against depressive disorders.

Tyagi P(1), Tasleem M(2), Prakash S(3), Chouhan G(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, School of Engineering and Technology, Sharda 
University, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India. Electronic address: 
priya.tyagi@sharda.ac.in.
(2)GB Pant Institute of Engineering and Technology, Pauri, Garhwal, Uttarakhand, 
India.
(3)Department of Life Sciences, School of Basic Science and Research, Sharda 
University, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, School of Engineering and Technology, Sharda 
University, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India. Electronic address: 
garima.chauhan@sharda.ac.in.

Depression is a debilitating psychiatric ailment which exerts disastrous effects 
on one's mental and physical health. Depression is accountable for augmentation 
of various life-threatening maladies such as neurodegenerative anomalies, 
cardiovascular diseases and diabetes. Depressive episodes are recurrent, pose a 
negative impact on life quality, decline life expectancy and enhance suicidal 
tendencies. Anti-depression chemotherapy displays marked adverse effects and 
frequent relapses. Thus, newer therapeutic interventions to prevent or combat 
depression are desperately required. Discovery of gut microbes as our 
mutualistic partner was made a long time ago and it is surprising that their 
functions still continue to expand and as of yet many are still to be uncovered. 
Experimental studies have revealed astonishing role of gut commensals in 
gut-brain signaling, immune homeostasis and hormonal regulation. Now, it is a 
well-established fact that gut microbes can alleviate stress or depression 
associated symptoms by modulating brain functions. Here in, we provide an 
overview of physiological alleyways involved in cross-talk between gut and 
brain, part played by probiotics in regulation of these pathways and use of 
probiotic bacteria as psychobiotics in various mental or depressive disorders.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2020.109489
PMID: 33233143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Food Res Int. 2020 Nov;137:109645. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2020.109645. Epub
2020  Aug 28.

Effect of modified atmosphere packaging on shelf life and bacterial community of 
roast duck meat.

Chen X(1), Zhao J(1), Zhu L(1), Luo X(2), Mao Y(1), Hopkins DL(3), Zhang Y(4), 
Dong P(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Food Science and Engineering, Shandong Agricultural University, 
Tai'an, Shandong 271018, PR China.
(2)College of Food Science and Engineering, Shandong Agricultural University, 
Tai'an, Shandong 271018, PR China; Jiangsu Synergetic Innovation Center of Meat 
Production and Processing Quality and Safety Control, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210000, 
PR China.
(3)NSW Department of Primary Industries, Centre for Red Meat and Sheep 
Development, PO Box 129, Cowra, NSW 2794, Australia.
(4)College of Food Science and Engineering, Shandong Agricultural University, 
Tai'an, Shandong 271018, PR China. Electronic address: ymzhang@sdau.edu.cn.
(5)College of Food Science and Engineering, Shandong Agricultural University, 
Tai'an, Shandong 271018, PR China. Electronic address: pchdong@sdau.edu.cn.

The purpose of this work was to assess the effect of different packaging methods 
on the shelf life and bacterial communities of roast duck meat. Samples were 
packaged under the following five conditions: overwrapped packaging (OWP), 100% 
N2 (100% N2-MAP), 30% CO2/70% N2 (30% CO2-MAP), 50% CO2/50% N2 (50% CO2-MAP), 
and 0.4% CO/30% CO2/69.6% N2 (CO-MAP). Physicochemical and microbiological 
parameters were monitored during 14 days of chilled storage (0-4 °C). Results 
showed that MAP samples obtained higher and more stable redness, better sensory 
scores, and lower lipid oxidation, compared with OWP, in which CO-MAP samples 
had the lowest TBARS values (0.13-0.22 MDA/kg) during storage. Moreover, 30% 
CO2-MAP, 50% CO2-MAP, and CO-MAP effectively retarded the onset of bacterial 
spoilage and extended shelf life by 7 days compared with 100% N2-MAP and OWP 
treatments. Additionally, bacterial succession was significantly affected by the 
gas composition used in the packages, especially the dominant biota at the end 
of storage, which played an important role in the spoilage of roast duck meat 
under specific packaging. On day 14, Pseudoalteromonas spp., Lactobacillus spp., 
and Pseudomonas spp. became the most predominate genera in OWP, 100% N2-MAP, and 
50% CO2-MAP, respectively. Notably, Vibrio spp. was dominant in both 30% CO2-MAP 
and CO-MAP, indicating 0.4% CO did not exert a further inhibitory effect on this 
genus. Additionally, the growth inhibition of Pseudoalteromonas spp., 
Lactobacillus spp., and Leuconostoc spp. by high CO2 concentration might be the 
reason for MAP (CO2/N2) samples having lower levels of TVC. Globally, these 
results indicate that 30% CO2-MAP, 50% CO2-MAP, and CO-MAP are promising 
packaging methods to improve roast duck meat quality and achieve shelf life 
extension.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2020.109645
PMID: 33233224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Medicina (Kaunas). 2020 Nov 20;56(11):629. doi: 10.3390/medicina56110629.

Toxicological Risk Analysis in Data-Poor Countries: A Narrative Approach to Feed 
an "Awareness Raising-Community Empowerment" Vortex.

Frazzoli C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular and Endocrine-Metabolic Diseases and Ageing, 
Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Via Giano della Bella 34, 00162 Rome, Italy.

Background and objectives: With globalization of culture and products, choices 
and behaviors associated with the unawareness of toxicological risk factors 
result in human and environmental toxic exposures along with health disparities. 
Toxic exposures are risk factors for malnutrition and diseases, impairing the 
chances of being healthy and having a healthy adulthood for current and next 
generation(s). Increasing research funds, infrastructures, analytical data and 
risk assessment is a reality well worth attention in sub-Saharan Africa. These 
countries are still unprotected nowadays and are particularly exposed and 
data-poor in respect to risk factors (e.g., neurotoxicants, immunotoxicants and 
endocrine disruptors). This paper presents how-based on scientific 
literature-low-resource countries may achieve more with less. As one of the 
world's most important emerging markets, Africa can, and should, assess the 
benefits and risks of modernity versus tradition and ask for safe and quality 
products at affordable prices while producing safe and nutritious foods. 
Materials and Methods: Exempla and experiences of risk analysis based on 
participant observation in field anthropological research, consumer safaris and 
reportages in the field of food safety, environmental health and consumer 
products are discussed in terms of "narrative prevention" and its power to 
highlight previously unrecognized/overlooked real-life risk scenarios. Knowledge 
return initiatives are discussed in light of their power to feed awareness 
raising, informed choice and empowerment of communities. Results: In some cases, 
data exist but remain too sparse, unknown or underused; in other cases, the 
information is totally neglected. When there is international scientific 
evidence, a diagnostic risk assessment is feasible. Despite significant resource 
constraints, properly science-driven targeted reportages in data-poor countries 
can bridge the gaps between international scientific knowledge and the 
implementation of relevant findings in an "awareness-empowerment vortex". When a 
clear message promoting healthy choices and behaviors is given, African 
communities are ready to respond. Conclusions: Poor skills are an avoidable 
consequence of low national income. Narrative prevention does not replace 
scientific research but stimulates scientific research and toxicological risk 
analysis during the ongoing risk transition in Africa. While African populations 
increasingly aspire to improve life expectancy in health, increasing exposure to 
such new health risk factors in sub-Saharan Africa needs top-down choices for 
diseases prevention, One Health, as well as public awareness and empowerment 
towards everyday habits and health protective choices.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina56110629
PMCID: PMC7699798
PMID: 33233639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


857. Clin Rehabil. 2021 May;35(5):703-717. doi: 10.1177/0269215520975348. Epub
2020  Nov 24.

Self-managed, computerised word finding therapy as an add-on to usual care for 
chronic aphasia post-stroke: An economic evaluation.

Latimer NR(1), Bhadhuri A(1), Alshreef A(1), Palmer R(1), Cross E(1)(2), Dimairo 
M(1)(2), Julious S(1), Cooper C(1)(2), Enderby P(1), Brady MC(3), Bowen A(4), 
Bradley E(1)(2), Harrison M(1).

Author information:
(1)ScHARR, The University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(2)Sheffield Clinical Trials Research Unit, The University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, UK.
(3)NMAHP Research Unit, Glasgow Caledonian University, Glasgow, UK.
(4)Division of Neuroscience & Experimental Psychology, FBMH, University of 
Manchester, MAHSC, Manchester, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost-effectiveness of self-managed computerised word 
finding therapy as an add-on to usual care for people with aphasia post-stroke.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness modelling over a life-time period, taking a UK 
National Health Service (NHS) and personal social service perspective.
SETTING: Based on the Big CACTUS randomised controlled trial, conducted in 21 UK 
NHS speech and language therapy departments.
PARTICIPANTS: Big CACTUS included 278 people with long-standing aphasia 
post-stroke.
INTERVENTIONS: Computerised word finding therapy plus usual care; usual care 
alone; usual care plus attention control.
MAIN MEASURES: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) were calculated, 
comparing the cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained for each 
intervention. Credible intervals (CrI) for costs and QALYs, and probabilities of 
cost-effectiveness, were obtained using probabilistic sensitivity analysis. 
Subgroup and scenario analyses investigated cost-effectiveness in different 
subsets of the population, and the sensitivity of results to key model inputs.
RESULTS: Adding computerised word finding therapy to usual care had an ICER of 
£42,686 per QALY gained compared with usual care alone (incremental QALY gain: 
0.02 per patient (95% CrI: -0.05 to 0.10); incremental costs: £732.73 per 
patient (95% CrI: £674.23 to £798.05)). ICERs for subgroups with mild or 
moderate word finding difficulties were £22,371 and £21,262 per QALY gained 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: Computerised word finding therapy represents a low cost add-on to 
usual care, but QALY gains and estimates of cost-effectiveness are uncertain. 
Computerised therapy is more likely to be cost-effective for people with mild or 
moderate, as opposed to severe, word finding difficulties.

DOI: 10.1177/0269215520975348
PMCID: PMC8073872
PMID: 33233972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interests: The 
author(s) declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to 
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: NRL was supported 
by the National Institute for Health Research until December 2018 (NIHR 
PDF-2015-08-022) and is currently supported by Yorkshire Cancer Research (Award 
S406NL). RP was funded by the NIHR until June 2017; ABo was supported by a 
personal award from Stroke Association (TSA LECT 2015/01), the NIHR CLAHRC 
Greater Manchester and other NIHR awards. MH received PhD fellowship funding 
from the Stroke Association; PE has a patent on the Therapy Outcome Measures 
from which she receives royalties; MCB is funded by the Chief Scientist Office, 
Scottish Government Health and Social Care Directorate.


858. BMC Palliat Care. 2020 Nov 24;19(1):178. doi: 10.1186/s12904-020-00685-z.

Validation and cultural adaptation of the Integrated Palliative care Outcome 
Scale (IPOS) for the Portuguese population.

Antunes B(1), Ferreira PL(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Primary Care Unit, Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University 
of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. bc521@medschl.cam.ac.uk.
(2)Centre for Health Studies and Research, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, 
Portugal.
(3)Faculty of Economics, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.

BACKGROUND: To culturally adapt and validate the Integrated Palliative care 
Outcome Scale to European Portuguese.
METHODS: Multi-centred observational study with 2 assessment points. Data were 
collected in nine centres using consecutive sampling. All patients were screened 
for eligibility.
INCLUSION CRITERIA: ≥18 years, mentally fit to give consent, diagnosed with an 
incurable, potentially life-threatening illness, read, write and understand 
Portuguese. Translation and back translation with independent native speakers 
blind to the original measure created a Portuguese version, which was culturally 
adapted using cognitive interviews. For psychometric testing, the COSMIN 
checklist was followed. Reliability and content validity were assessed for 
patient and staff versions. Construct and criterion validity were tested for 
patient version.
RESULTS: 1703 individuals were screened between July 1st 2015 and February 2016, 
135 (7.9%) were included. Mean age was 66.8 years (SD 12.7), 58 (43%) were 
female. Most patients (109; 80.7%) had a cancer diagnosis. Cronbach's alpha 
showed good internal consistency, 0.657 for patient, 0.705 for staff versions. 
Intraclass correlation coefficient testing reproducibility revealed very good 
reliability, 0.794-0.950 for patient and 0.456-0.925 for staff versions. There 
was good content validity and significant results for construct validity. 
Physical symptoms were better detected by females. IPOS could discriminate: 
practical issues in different places of care, based on cancer diagnosis, 
physical and emotional symptoms based on life expectancy both for patient and 
professional dimensions, physical and emotional symptoms based on phase of 
illness, for professional dimensions, and physical symptoms from the patients' 
viewpoint.
CONCLUSIONS: The Portuguese IPOS is a reliable and valid measure.

DOI: 10.1186/s12904-020-00685-z
PMCID: PMC7687758
PMID: 33234116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


859. BMJ Open. 2020 Nov 24;10(11):e041346. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-041346.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of population salt reduction interventions to 
prevent cardiovascular disease in Cameroon: mathematical modelling study.

Aminde LN(1), Cobiac L(2), Veerman JL(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Griffith University, Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia 
amindeln@gmail.com.
(2)Nuffield Department of Population Health, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
Oxfordshire, UK.
(3)School of Medicine, Griffith University, Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Reducing dietary sodium (salt) intake has been proposed as a 
population-wide strategy to reduce blood pressure and cardiovascular disease 
(CVD). The cost-effectiveness of such strategies has hitherto not been 
investigated in Cameroon.
METHODS: A multicohort multistate life table Markov model was used to evaluate 
the cost-effectiveness of three population salt reduction strategies: mass media 
campaign, school-based salt education programme and low-sodium salt substitute. 
A healthcare system perspective was considered and adults alive in 2016 were 
simulated over the life course. Outcomes were changes in disease incidence, 
mortality, health-adjusted life years (HALYs), healthcare costs and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) over the lifetime. Probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis was used to quantify uncertainty.
RESULTS: Over the life span of the cohort of adults alive in Cameroon in 2016, 
substantial numbers of new CVD events could be prevented, with over 10 000, 79 
000 and 84 000 CVD deaths that could be averted from mass media, school 
education programme and salt substitute interventions, respectively. Population 
health gains over the lifetime were 46 700 HALYs, 348 800 HALYs and 368 400 
HALYs for the mass media, school education programme and salt substitute 
interventions, respectively. ICERs showed that all interventions were dominant, 
