jiri.kriz@fnmotol.cz.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation and Sports Medicine, University Hospital Motol, 
Prague, Czech Republic.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, National Institute of Public Health, Prague, 
Czech Republic.

STUDY DESIGN: A retrospective cohort study OBJECTIVES: To determine the causes 
of death in people with spinal cord injury (SCI) admitted to the Spinal Cord 
Unit (SCU) of the University Hospital Motol from 2004 to 2018.
SETTING: University Hospital Motol, Prague METHODS: From a cohort of people 
admitted to the SCU between 2004 and 2018, all deaths were identified based on 
the database of health insurance companies. The causes of death (ICD-10) were 
obtained from the Institute of Health Information and Statistics. The 
standardized mortality ratio (SMR) was calculated for most frequent causes of 
death.
RESULTS: During the study period, 990 patients with acute SCI were admitted to 
the SCU, out of which 183 (18.5%) died. Thirty-five people who had SCI due to 
cancer were excluded from the study. The leading cause of death in the remaining 
148 people was pneumonia, followed by cardiac complications, pulmonary embolism, 
suicide, and urinary tract infection (UTI). In the group of the individuals who 
died within 1 year after SCI (N = 41), the main causes of death were pneumonia 
and pulmonary embolism (17.1% each). Among individuals who survived up to1 year 
after SCI (N = 107), the most common causes of death were pneumonia (14%) and 
pressure injuries (12.1%). The cause-specific SMRs were significantly increased 
for UTI, embolism, pneumonia, and suicide.
CONCLUSION: The frequent causes of death in our study group were pressure 
injuries and suicides. These findings are fundamental to the development and 
implementation of preventive programs to reduce mortality and increase life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1038/s41393-020-00593-2
PMID: 33446932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Saudi J Anaesth. 2020 Oct-Dec;14(4):531-534. doi: 10.4103/sja.SJA_85_20.
Epub  2020 Sep 24.

Anesthetic management of a "Supercentenarian" (Oldest living person on Earth) 
posted for an emergency surgery.

Sharma RM(1), Garg A(1), Parikh B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Critical Care and Pain Management, Army 
Hospital (R&R), New Delhi, India.

With the rise in living standards and evolution of science, there is a rise in 
life expectancy world over. This demographic transition has led to a rise in 
older persons, increasing the dependency ratios and "demographic burden." 
Management of such old patients requires special considerations and 
understanding as aging is a physiological phenomenon in which the functional 
capacity of organs decreases due to degenerative changes in the structure. An 
important aspect to remember in Geriatric Anesthesia is that in spite of 
adequate compensatory mechanisms for age-related changes, there is a limitation 
of physiological reserve, especially in stressful circumstances like 
perioperative period. Geriatric patients are more sensitive to all medications 
and anesthetic agents. Lesser amount of drug is required to achieve the desired 
clinical effect, but have a prolonged effect. This elderly but well-preserved 
patient, possibly a case of small gut obstruction was posted for emergency 
laparoscopy and proceed. Seeing his age and easy friability, a well-planned 
preoperative assessment and optimization was done prior to wheeling him into 
operation theater. Administration of short-acting anesthetic drugs in titrated 
quantities and awareness about postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) helped 
us to get better and faster recovery in the patient.

Copyright: © 2020 Saudi Journal of Anesthesia.

DOI: 10.4103/sja.SJA_85_20
PMCID: PMC7796752
PMID: 33447201

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


550. Gland Surg. 2020 Dec;9(6):2321-2330. doi: 10.21037/gs-20-561.

Multiparametric MRI in the management of prostate cancer: an update-a narrative 
review.

Ziglioli F(1), Maestroni U(1), Manna C(2), Negrini G(2), Granelli G(1), Greco 
V(2), Pagnini F(2), De Filippo M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University-Hospital of Parma, Parma, Italy.
(2)Department of Radiology, University-Hospital of Parma, Parma, Italy.

The growing interest in multiparametric MRI is leading to important changes in 
the diagnostic process of prostate cancer. MRI-targeted biopsy is likely to 
become a standard for the diagnosis of prostate cancer in the next years. 
Despite it is well known that MRI has no role as a staging technique, it is 
clear that multiparametric MRI may be of help in active surveillance protocols. 
Noteworthy, MRI in active surveillance is not recommended, but a proper 
understanding of its potential may be of help in achieving the goals of a 
delayed treatment strategy. Moreover, the development of minimally invasive 
techniques, like laparoscopic and robotic surgery, has led to greater 
expectations as regard to the functional outcomes of radical prostatectomy. 
Multiparametric MRI may play a role in planning surgical strategies, with the 
aim to provide the highest oncologic outcome with a minimal impact on the 
quality of life. We maintain that a proper anatomic knowledge of prostate 
lesions may allow the surgeon to achieve a better result in planning as well as 
in performing surgery and help the surgeon and the patient engage in a shared 
decision in planning a more effective strategy for prostate cancer control and 
treatment. This review highlights the advantages and the limitations of 
multiparametric MRI in prostate cancer diagnosis, in active surveillance and in 
planning surgery.

2020 Gland Surgery. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/gs-20-561
PMCID: PMC7804524
PMID: 33447583

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
http://dx.doi.org/10.21037/gs-20-561). The series “Multimodality Advanced 
Imaging and Intervention in Gland Diseases” was commissioned by the editorial 
office without any funding or sponsorship. The authors have no other conflicts 
of interest to declare.


551. Int Orthop. 2021 Mar;45(3):635-641. doi: 10.1007/s00264-020-04917-y. Epub
2021  Jan 15.

Total knee arthroplasty improves the quality-adjusted life years in patients who 
exceeded their estimated life expectancy.

Palazzuolo M(1), Antoniadis A(1), Mahlouly J(1), Wegrzyn J(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Lausanne University Hospital - CHUV, 
Lausanne, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Lausanne University Hospital - CHUV, 
Lausanne, Switzerland. julien.wegrzyn@chuv.ch.
(3)Hôpital Orthopédique, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois - CHUV, Avenue 
Pierre Decker, 4, CH-1011, Lausanne, Switzerland. julien.wegrzyn@chuv.ch.

Comment in
    Int Orthop. 2021 May;45(5):1369-1370.

PURPOSE: Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is the treatment of choice for end-stage 
osteoarthritis though its risk-benefit ratio in elderly patients remains 
debated. This study aimed to evaluate the functional outcome, rates of 
complication and mortality, and quality-adjusted life years (QALY) in patients 
who exceeded their estimated life expectancy.
METHODS: Ninety-seven TKA implanted in 86 patients who exceeded their estimated 
life expectancy at the time of TKA were prospectively included in our 
institutional joint registry and retrospectively analyzed. At latest follow-up, 
the functional outcome with the Knee Society Score (KSS), rates of complication 
and mortality, and QALY with utility value of EuroQol-5D score were evaluated.
RESULTS: At a mean follow-up of three ± one years, the pre- to post-operative 
KSS improved significantly (p < 0.01). The rates of surgical and major medical 
complications related to TKA were 3% and 10%, respectively. The re-operation 
rate with readmission was 3% while no TKA was revised. The 30-day and one year 
mortality was 1% and 3%, respectively. The pre- to one year post-operative QALY 
improved significantly (p < 0.01). The cumulative QALY five years after TKA was 
four years. Assuming that these patients did not undergo TKA, their cumulative 
QALY at five years would have been only two years.
CONCLUSION: TKA is an effective procedure for the treatment of end-stage 
osteoarthritis in patients who exceeded their estimated life expectancy. TKA 
provided significant improvement in function and quality of life without 
adversely affecting overall morbidity and mortality. Therefore, TKA should not 
be contra-indicated in elderly patients based on their advanced age alone.

DOI: 10.1007/s00264-020-04917-y
PMCID: PMC7892693
PMID: 33447874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


552. AAPS PharmSciTech. 2021 Jan 14;22(1):47. doi: 10.1208/s12249-020-01908-5.

Recent Advancement in Nanotechnology-Based Drug Delivery System Against Viral 
Infections.

Pradhan D(1), Biswasroy P(1), Goyal A(2), Ghosh G(1), Rath G(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Siksha 'O' Anusandhan University, 
Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India.
(2)School of life sciences, Central University Rajasthan, Ajmer, India.
(3)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Siksha 'O' Anusandhan University, 
Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India. goutamrath123@gmail.com.

In the last few decades, the exponential rise in the incidence of viral 
infections sets a global health emergency across the world. The biomimetic 
architecture, the ability to hijack host immune responses, continuous antigen 
shifting, and drafting are the major critical factors that are responsible for 
the unavailability of a concrete therapeutic regimen against viral infections. 
Further, inappropriate pharmacodynamic physicochemical and biological parameters 
such as low aqueous solubility, poor permeability, high affinity for plasm 
proteins, short biological half-lives, and fast elimination from the systemic 
circulation are the major critical factors that govern the suboptimal drug 
concentration at the target site that leads to the development of drug 
resistance. To address this issue, nanotechnology-based drug delivery approach 
is emerged as an altering method to attain the optimal drug concentration at the 
target site for a prolonged period by integrating the nanoengineering tools in 
the synthesis of nanoparticles. Nanodimensional configuration with enhanced 
permeability and retention effect, increased surface-area-to-volume ratio, 
provision for surface functionalization, etc., are the privileged aspects that 
make it an effective drug delivery system for dispensing the antiviral 
therapeutics. However, size, shape, charge, and surface topology of 
nanoparticles are the greater influential factors that determine target-specific 
drug delivery, optimum cellular uptake, degree of opsonization by the host 
immune cells, drug retention time, transcytosis, the extension of biological 
half-life, in vivo stability, and cytotoxicity. The review will enlighten the 
elaborative role of nanotechnology-based drug delivery and the major challenging 
aspect of clinical safety and efficacy.

DOI: 10.1208/s12249-020-01908-5
PMCID: PMC7808403
PMID: 33447909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


553. FEBS J. 2021 Dec;288(24):6942-6971. doi: 10.1111/febs.15711. Epub 2021 Jan
29.

Rationalizing heptadecaphobia: T(H) 17 cells and associated cytokines in cancer 
and metastasis.

Lücke J(1)(2), Shiri AM(1)(2), Zhang T(1)(2), Kempski J(1)(2)(3), Giannou 
AD(1)(2)(4), Huber S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Section of Molecular Immunology und Gastroenterology, I. Department of 
Medicine, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Germany.
(2)Hamburg Center for Translational Immunology (HCTI), University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Germany.
(3)The Calcium Signaling Group, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Cell 
Biology, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Germany.
(4)Department of General, Visceral and Thoracic Surgery, University Medical 
Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Germany.

Cancer is one of the leading causes of death worldwide. When cancer patients are 
diagnosed with metastasis, meaning that the primary tumor has spread to at least 
one different site, their life expectancy decreases dramatically. In the past 
decade, the immune system´s role in fighting cancer and metastasis has been 
studied extensively. Importantly, immune cells and inflammatory reactions 
generate potent antitumor responses but also contribute to tumor development. 
However, the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying this dichotomic 
interaction between the immune system and cancer are still poorly understood. 
Recently, a spotlight has been cast on the distinct subsets of immune cells and 
their derived cytokines since evidence has implicated their crucial impact on 
cancer development. T helper 17 cell (TH 17) cells, which express the master 
transcriptional factor Retinoic acid-receptor-related orphan receptor gamma t, 
are among these critical cell subsets and are defined by their production of 
type 3 cytokines, such as IL-17A, IL-17F, and IL-22. Depending on the tumor 
microenvironment, these cytokines can also be produced by other immune cell 
sources, such as T cytotoxic 17 cell, innate lymphoid cells, NKT cells, or γδ T 
cells. To date, a lot of data have been collected describing the divergent 
functions of IL-17A, IL-17F, and IL-22 in malignancies. In this comprehensive 
review, we discuss the role of these TH 17- and non-TH 17-derived type 3 
cytokines in different tumor entities. Furthermore, we will provide a structured 
insight into the strict regulation and subsequent downstream mechanisms of these 
cytokines in cancer and metastasis.

© 2021 The Authors. The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on 
behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.

DOI: 10.1111/febs.15711
PMID: 33448148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Clin Appl Thromb Hemost. 2021 Jan-Dec;27:1076029620984546. doi: 
10.1177/1076029620984546.

Endothelial Function in Patients With Von Willebrand Disease.

Noone S(1), Schubert R(2), Fichtlscherer S(3), Hilberg T(4), Alesci S(5), 
Miesbach W(1).

Author information:
(1)Haemostaseology, Department of Internal Medicine II, Institute of Transfusion 
Medicine, University Hospital, Goethe University Frankfurt am Main, Frankfurt, 
Germany.
(2)Department for Children and Adolescents Medicine, University Hospital 
Frankfurt, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(3)Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine III, University 
Hospital Frankfurt, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(4)Department of Sports Medicine, University of Wuppertal, Wuppertal, Germany.
(5)IMD Blood Coagulation Centre, Bad Homburg, Germany.

In patients with von Willebrand disease (vWD) the interest in age-related 
comorbidities has grown, because the life expectancy of these patients has 
increased. The research question of this study was whether patients with vWD 
show a different endothelial function compared to the general population. A 
total of 37 patients with type 1 (n = 23), type 2 (n = 10) and type 3 (n = 4) 
vWD, 14 controls and 38 patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) were 
included in this study. Five markers of endothelial dysfunction (MOED) were 
determined. Moreover, the endothelial function was examined using the Itamar 
Endo-PAT. The reactive hyperemia index (RHI) was calculated from the results. 
The markers soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (p = 0.171), P-Selectin (p 
= 0.512), interleukin-6 (p = 0.734) and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (p = 
0.761) showed higher levels in patients with vWD, but were not significantly 
different compared to the control group. RHI was impaired in CAD-patients 
(1.855), whereas vWD patients had mean results of 1.870 and controls 2.112 (p = 
0.367). In this study, the endothelial function measurements of patients with 
von Willebrand disease were not significantly different compared to healthy 
controls.

DOI: 10.1177/1076029620984546
PMCID: PMC7812404
PMID: 33448867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
authors declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


555. J Relig Health. 2021 Dec;60(6):4451-4466. doi: 10.1007/s10943-020-01159-5.
Epub  2021 Jan 15.

Religious Problem-Solving Styles and Life Satisfaction: Exploring God, the Will 
and the Way.

Parenteau SC(1), Wu H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Auburn University at Montgomery, 210I Goodwyn Hall, 
Montgomery, AL, 36124, USA. sparente@aum.edu.
(2)Lingnan (University) College, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, People's 
Republic of China.

A proliferation of empirical studies over the past few decades has examined the 
connection between religiosity and health; an extension of this literature has 
focused on the association between three styles of religious 
problem-solving-collaborative, self-directing and deferring-and psychological 
adjustment. Few studies, however, have examined variables that may mediate this 
association. The present study utilized a cross-sectional design to examine the 
pathways (means to attain goals) and agency (goal-directed energy and 
determination) components of hope as mediators in the association between 
religious problem-solving styles and psychosocial adjustment. Students (n = 91) 
at a midsize Southeastern university completed a demographic questionnaire, the 
Religious Problem-solving Styles Scale, Adult Hope Scale, and the Life 
Satisfaction Scale. Mediation analyses revealed that both the collaborative and 
deferring religious problem-solving styles were positively associated with life 
satisfaction through agency thinking, but the self-directing religious 
problem-solving style was negatively associated with life satisfaction through 
agency thinking. Contrary to expectations, there was no significant indirect 
effect of any of the religious problem-solving styles on life satisfaction via 
pathways thinking. These results suggest that approaching problems within a 
specific religious framework is associated with psychosocial adjustment, and 
that each religious problem-solving style may exert its effects by either 
amplifying or quelling goal-directed motivation and willpower. Future studies 
should utilize quasi-experimental designs in order to delineate cause-and-effect 
relationships among religious problem-solving styles, agency and pathways 
thinking, and psychosocial adjustment.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10943-020-01159-5
PMID: 33449263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Addiction. 2021 Aug;116(8):2026-2038. doi: 10.1111/add.15413. Epub 2021 Feb
3.

A systematic comparison of the global comparative risk assessments for alcohol.

Chrystoja BR(1)(2), Rehm J(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7), Manthey J(6)(8)(9), Probst 
C(1)(10), Wettlaufer A(1), Shield KD(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Mental Health Policy Research, Centre for Addiction and Mental 
Health, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(3)Campbell Family Mental Health Research Institute, Centre for Addiction and 
Mental Health, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(6)Institute of Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy and Center for Clinical 
Epidemiology and Longitudinal Studies, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, 
Germany.
(7)Department of International Health Projects, Institute for Leadership and 
Health Management, I.M. Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University, Moscow, 
Russian Federation.
(8)Centre for Interdisciplinary Addiction Research, Hamburg, Germany.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, Medical Faculty, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, 
Germany.
(10)Heidelberg Institute of Global Health, Medical Faculty and University 
Hospital, Heidelberg, Germany.

AIMS: To compare systematically the alcohol-attributable mortality and burden of 
disease estimates for 2016 from a recent study by Shield and colleagues and the 
Global Burden of Disease study 2017 (GBD).
METHOD: This study compared estimates of alcohol-attributable mortality and 
disability adjusted life years (DALYs) lost for 2016 with regards to absolute 
and relative differences, by region and by cause of disease or injury. Relative 
differences between the two studies are reported herein as percentage (%) 
differences. A difference of 10% or more was considered meaningful.
RESULTS: The studies estimated similar global levels of overall 
alcohol-attributable mortality for 2016 (Shield and colleagues estimated 5.1% 
more alcohol-attributable mortality than the GBD study) but not 
alcohol-attributable DALYs lost (18.3% difference). There were marked 
differences by region and cause of disease or injury. Compared with the results 
from Shield and colleagues, the GBD study estimated a lower alcohol-attributable 
burden in Eastern Europe by 252 770 alcohol-attributable deaths (45.2% 
difference) and 6.1 million alcohol-attributable DALYs lost (32.9% difference) 
and in Western sub-Saharan Africa by 124 200 alcohol-attributable deaths (55.7% 
difference) and 7.0 million alcohol-attributable DALYs lost (63.4% difference), 
and estimated a higher alcohol-attributable burden in East Asia by 227 100 
alcohol-attributable deaths (48.0% difference) and 2.2 million DALYs lost (11.0% 
difference). With regard to the cause of disease or injury, Shield and 
colleagues attributed an overall detrimental effect to alcohol on ischaemic 
heart disease mortality, whereas the GBD study attributed a net beneficial 
effect. The GBD study, as compared with Shield and colleagues' study, estimated 
a lower alcohol-attributable mortality because of liver cirrhosis and injuries 
by 262 500 (44.6% difference) and 398 800 (46.2% difference), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Differences in estimates of the alcohol-attributable burden of 
disease in two recent studies indicate the need to improve the accuracy of 
underlying data and risk relations to obtain more consistent estimates and to 
formulate, advocate for, and implement alcohol policies more effectively.

© 2021 Society for the Study of Addiction.

DOI: 10.1111/add.15413
PMID: 33449382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. JCO Glob Oncol. 2021 Jan;7:108-117. doi: 10.1200/GO.20.00288.

Cost-Effectiveness of Temozolamide for Treatment of Glioblastoma Multiforme in 
India.

Gupta N(1), Prinja S(2), Patil V(3), Bahuguna P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Government Medical College and Hospital, 
Chandigarh, India.
(2)Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, Post Graduate 
Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, India.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Tata Memorial Centre and Homi Bhabha National 
Institute, Mumbai, India.

PURPOSE: Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) has poor outcomes following surgery and 
radiation. Adjuvant temozolamide along with radiation therapy has been shown to 
improve survival. In this paper, we evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
concomitant temozolamide with radiation and maintenance temozolamide for 6 
months of treatment for GBM in India.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used a Markov model to evaluate the lifetime costs and 
consequences of treating GBM with radiation alone versus radiation with adjuvant 
temozolamide. The model was calibrated using the published evidence from 
European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer-NCIC trial on 
progression-free survival and overall survival to estimate the life years (LYs) 
and quality-adjusted LYs (QALYs). Cost of treatment and management of 
complications were estimated using the data from the National Health System Cost 
Database and Indian studies. Future cost and consequences were discounted at 3%. 
Incremental cost per QALY gained with temozolamide was estimated to assess cost 
effectiveness.
RESULTS: Temozolamide resulted in an increase of 0.59 (0.53-0.66) LY and 0.33 
(0.29-0.40) QALY per person at an incremental cost of ₹75,120 in Indian national 
rupee (INR) (59,337-93,960). Overall, the use of temozolamide incurs an 
incremental cost of ₹212,020 INR (138,127-401,466) per QALY gained, which has a 
4.7% probability to be cost-effective at 1-time per capita Gross Domestic 
Product (GDP) threshold. In case the current price of temozolamide could be 
decreased by 90%, the probability of its use for GBM being cost-effective 
increases to 80%.
CONCLUSION: Temozolamide is not cost-effective for treatment of patients with 
GBM in India. This evidence should be used while framing guidelines for 
treatment and price regulation.

DOI: 10.1200/GO.20.00288
PMCID: PMC8081547
PMID: 33449801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The following represents disclosure information 
provided by authors of this manuscript. All relationships are considered 
compensated unless otherwise noted. Relationships are self-held unless noted. I 
= Immediate Family Member, Inst = My Institution. Relationships may not relate 
to the subject matter of this manuscript. For more information about ASCO’s 
conflict of interest policy, please refer to www.asco.org/rwc or 
ascopubs.org/go/authors/author-center. Open Payments is a public database 
containing information reported by companies about payments made to US-licensed 
physicians (Open Payments). NIDHI GUPTA: Employment: Grecian Multispeciality 
Hospital, Mohali, Punjab, India No other potential conflicts of interest were 
reported.


558. Endocr Connect. 2021 Feb;10(2):R66-R76. doi: 10.1530/EC-20-0473.

The use of prednisolone versus dual-release hydrocortisone in the treatment of 
hypoadrenalism.

Choudhury S(1)(2), Tan T(1)(2), Lazarus K(1)(2), Meeran K(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology and Investigative Medicine, Department of Metabolism, Digestion 
and Reproduction, Imperial College London, Commonwealth Building, London, UK.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, London, 
UK.

The introduction of adrenocortical extract in 1930 improved the life expectancy 
of hyhpoadrenal patients, with further increases seen after the introduction of 
cortisone acetate from 1948. Most patients are now treated with synthetic 
hydrocortisone, and incremental advances have been made with optimisation of 
daily dosing and the introduction of multidose regimens. There remains a 
significant mortality gap between individuals with treated hypoadrenalism and 
the general population. It is unclear whether this gap is a result of 
glucocorticoid over-replacement, under-replacement or loss of the circadian and 
ultradian rhythm of cortisol secretion, with the risk of detrimental excess 
glucocorticoid exposure at later times in the day. The way forwards will involve 
replacement of the diurnal cortisol rhythm with better glucocorticoid 
replacement regimens. The steroid profile produced by both prednisolone and 
dual-release hydrocortisone (Plenadren), provide a smoother glucocorticoid 
profile of cortisol than standard oral multidose regimens of hydrocortisone and 
cortisone acetate. The individualisation of prednisolone doses and lower 
bioavailability of Plenadren offer reductions in total steroid exposure. 
Although there is emerging evidence of both treatments offering better 
cardiometabolic outcomes than standard glucocorticoid replacement regimens, 
there is a paucity of evidence involving very low dose prednisolone (2-4 mg 
daily) compared to the larger doses (~7.5 mg) historically used. Data from 
upcoming clinical studies on prednisolone will therefore be of key importance in 
informing future practice.

DOI: 10.1530/EC-20-0473
PMCID: PMC7983484
PMID: 33449916


559. Public Health. 2021 Jan;190:116-122. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2020.02.009. Epub
2021  Jan 12.

The challenges of administering a new treatment: the case of direct-acting 
antivirals for hepatitis C virus.

Mondschein S(1), Yankovic N(2), Matus O(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Engineering, Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez. Avda. Diagonal las Torres 
2460, building C, Peñalolén, Santiago, Chile. Electronic address: 
susana.mondschein@uai.cl.
(2)ESE Business School, Universidad de los Andes. Av. Plaza 1905, Las Condes, 
Santiago, Chile.
(3)School of Engineering, Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez. Avda. Diagonal las Torres 
2460, building C, Peñalolén, Santiago, Chile.

OBJECTIVES: We develop a patient prioritization scheme for treating patients 
infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV) and study under which scenarios it 
outperforms the current practices in Spain and Chile.
STUDY DESIGN: We use simulation to evaluate the performance of prioritization 
rules under two HCV patient cohorts, constructed using secondary data of public 
records from Chile and Spain, during 2015-2016.
METHODS: We use the results of a mathematical model, which determines individual 
optimal HCV treatment policies as an input for constructing a patient 
prioritization rule, when limited resources are present. The prioritization is 
based on marginal analysis on cost increases and health-outcome gains. We 
construct the Chilean and Spanish case studies and used Monte Carlo simulation 
to evaluate the performance of our methodology in these two scenarios.
RESULTS: The resulting prioritizations for the Chilean and Spanish patients are 
similar, despite the significant differences of both countries, in terms of 
epidemiological profiles and cost structures. Furthermore, when resources are 
scarce compared with the number of patients in need of the new drug, our 
prioritization significantly outperforms current practices of treating sicker 
patients first, both in terms of cost and healthcare indicators: for the Chilean 
case, we have an increase in the quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) of 0.83 
with a cost reduction of 8176 euros per patient, with a budget covering 2.5% of 
the patients in the cohort. This difference slowly decreases when increasing the 
available resources, converging to the performance indicators obtained when all 
patients are treated immediately: for the Spanish case, we have a decrease in 
the QALYs of 0.17 with a cost reduction of 1134 euros per patient, with a budget 
covering 20% of the patients in the cohort.
CONCLUSION: Decision science can provide useful analytical tools for designing 
efficient public policies that can excel in terms of quantitative health 
performance indicators.

Copyright © 2020 The Royal Society for Public Health. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2020.02.009
PMID: 33450632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Health Policy Plan. 2020 Nov 20;35(9):1237-1243. doi:
10.1093/heapol/czaa073.

On time horizons in health economic evaluations.

Haacker M(1)(2)(3), Hallett TB(4), Atun R(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard T.H. Chan School of 
Public Health, Harvard University, 677 Huntington Ave, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(2)Center for Global Development, 2055 L St NW, Washington, DC 20036, USA.
(3)Centre for Global Health Economics, University College London, 30 Guilford 
Street, London WC1N 1EH, UK.
(4)Imperial College London, MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis, 
School of Public Health, St Mary's Hospital, Norfolk Place, London W2 1PG, 
London, UK.
(5)Department of Global Health and Social Medicine, Harvard Medical School, 
Harvard University, 641 Huntington Ave, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

The issue of time horizons has received scant attention in discussions 
pertaining to health economic evaluations unlike discounting or translation of 
health outcomes into life-cycle measures (e.g. quality-adjusted life years or 
disability-adjusted life years). The available guidelines do not offer clear and 
consistent guidance for many problems addressed in health economic evaluations. 
In practice, variation of time horizons between studies for the same diseases is 
a matter of concern, as results on cost-effectiveness depend on the time 
horizon. Our paper contributes to establishing a consistent approach to setting 
time horizons across common types of health economic evaluations and mitigating 
potential bias where the choice of a time horizon may affect results of the 
evaluation. We find that available guidance is clear only for patient-focused 
interventions, but not in the presence of population-level effects owing to 
transmission of infections or other linkages. We distinguish between a policy 
period-over which an intervention is delivered or initiated-and an evaluation 
period over which the effects are measured. One important challenge in 
establishing a time horizon for evaluation is that, at least for infectious 
diseases, the state of the epidemic at the end of the policy period cannot be 
evaluated precisely and incorporated in the results of an economic evaluation. 
While longer policy periods partly mitigate this challenge, they are subject to 
greater uncertainty, and outcomes may not adequately reflect the 
cost-effectiveness of current policies because outcomes reflect an average over 
the policy period. Incremental analysis on interventions implemented in 
sub-periods of the policy period (especially at the beginning) potentially 
improves accuracy and helps to identify potential for improving 
cost-effectiveness by varying the path of implementation or the mix of 
interventions offered over time.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press in association with 
The London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/czaa073
PMID: 33450767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Jan 13;18(2):620. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18020620.

Exploring the Nexus of Energy Burden, Social Capital, and Environmental Quality 
in Shaping Health in US Counties.

Reames TG(1), Daley DM(2), Pierce JC(3).

Author information:
(1)School for Environment & Sustainability, University of Michigan, 440 Church 
St., Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA.
(2)School of Public Affairs & Administration and Environmental Studies Program, 
University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS 66045, USA.
(3)School of Public Affairs & Administration, University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS 
66045, USA.

The United States spends more on health care than any other OECD country, yet 
the nation's health is declining. Recent research has identified multiple 
sources for this decline, including one's position in social and economic 
structures, environmental quality, and individual and collective social capital. 
This paper assesses the primary hypotheses that the health effects of household 
energy burden, social capital and environmental quality on aggregated community 
health levels remain while controlling for other determinants. The analysis 
moves beyond prior research by integrating multiple secondary data sources to 
assess those effects across US counties. Three indicators of public health are 
analyzed (premature mortality, self-reported health, and life expectancy). The 
county-level energy burden is measured by the percent of household income spent 
on housing energy bills for low- and moderate-income households. In addition to 
energy burden, social capital, environmental quality and other determinants are 
included in the analysis. The results produced by multivariate regression models 
support the primary hypotheses, even while a number of control variables also 
have a significant effect on health. The paper concludes that public health is 
associated with a complex nexus of factors, including environmental quality and 
social capital, and that energy burden needs to be among the considerations.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18020620
PMCID: PMC7828329
PMID: 33450890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


562. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2021 Jan 13;14(1):58. doi: 10.3390/ph14010058.

A Perspective on Natural and Nature-Inspired Small Molecules Targeting 
Phosphodiesterase 9 (PDE9): Chances and Challenges against Neurodegeneration.

Ribaudo G(1), Memo M(1), Gianoncelli A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Translational Medicine, University of Brescia, 
25121 Brescia, Italy.

As life expectancy increases, dementia affects a growing number of people 
worldwide. Besides current treatments, phosphodiesterase 9 (PDE9) represents an 
alternative target for developing innovative small molecules to contrast 
neurodegeneration. PDE inhibition promotes neurotransmitter release, 
amelioration of microvascular dysfunction, and neuronal plasticity. This review 
will provide an update on natural and nature-inspired PDE9 inhibitors, with a 
focus on the structural features of PDE9 that encourage the development of 
isoform-selective ligands. The expression in the brain, the presence within its 
structure of a peculiar accessory pocket, the asymmetry between the two subunits 
composing the protein dimer, and the selectivity towards chiral species make 
PDE9 a suitable target to develop specific inhibitors. Additionally, the world 
of natural compounds is an ideal source for identifying novel, possibly 
asymmetric, scaffolds, and xanthines, flavonoids, neolignans, and their 
derivatives are currently being studied. In this review, the available 
literature data were interpreted and clarified, from a structural point of view, 
taking advantage of molecular modeling: 3D structures of ligand-target complexes 
were retrieved, or built, and discussed.

DOI: 10.3390/ph14010058
PMCID: PMC7828511
PMID: 33451065

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


563. Genes (Basel). 2021 Jan 13;12(1):95. doi: 10.3390/genes12010095.

Parasite Presence Induces Gene Expression Changes in an Ant Host Related to 
Immunity and Longevity.

Stoldt M(1), Klein L(1), Beros S(2), Butter F(3), Jongepier E(4), Feldmeyer 
B(5), Foitzik S(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Organismic and Molecular Evolution, Johannes Gutenberg 
University Mainz, 55128 Mainz, Germany.
(2)Max Planck Institute for the Biology of Ageing, 50931 Cologne, Germany.
(3)Institute for Molecular Biology, Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, 55128 
Mainz, Germany.
(4)Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity, University of Münster, 48149 
Münster, Germany.
(5)Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Center (SBiK-F), Molecular 
Ecology, 60325 Frankfurt, Germany.

Most species are either parasites or exploited by parasites, making 
parasite-host interactions a driver of evolution. Parasites with complex life 
cycles often evolve strategies to facilitate transmission to the definitive host 
by manipulating their intermediate host. Such manipulations could explain 
phenotypic changes in the ant Temnothorax nylanderi, the intermediate host of 
the cestode Anomotaenia brevis. In addition to behavioral and morphological 
alterations, infected workers exhibit prolonged lifespans, comparable to that of 
queens, which live up to two decades. We used transcriptomic data from cestodes 
and ants of different castes and infection status to investigate the molecular 
underpinnings of phenotypic alterations in infected workers and explored whether 
the extended lifespan of queens and infected workers has a common molecular 
basis. Infected workers and queens commonly upregulated only six genes, one of 
them with a known anti-aging function. Both groups overexpressed immune genes, 
although not the same ones. Our findings suggest that the lifespan extension of 
infected workers is not achieved via the expression of queen-specific genes. The 
analysis of the cestodes' transcriptome revealed dominant expression of genes of 
the mitochondrial respiratory transport chain, which indicates an active 
metabolism and shedding light on the physiology of the parasite in its 
cysticercoid stage.

DOI: 10.3390/genes12010095
PMCID: PMC7828512
PMID: 33451085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


564. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Jan 13;18(2):639. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18020639.

Development of a Binational Framework for Active and Healthy Ageing (AHA) 
Bridging Austria and Slovenia in a Thermal Spa Region.

Lindner S(1), Illing K(2), Sommer J(3), Krajnc-Nikolić T(4), Harer J(5), Kurre 
C(5), Lautner K(6), Hauser M(7), Grabar D(8), Graf-Stelzl R(9), Korn C(10), Pilz 
K(11), Ritter B(12)(13), Roller-Wirnsberger R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Medical University of Graz, 8036 Graz, 
Austria.
(2)Faculty of Health Management in Tourism, University of Applied Sciences FH 
JOANNEUM, 8344 Bad Gleichenberg, Austria.
(3)Austrian Thermal Spas and Health Resorts Association, 1140 Vienna, Austria.
(4)RU Murska Sobota, National Institute of Public Health, 9000 Murska Sobota, 
Slovenia.
(5)Human Technology Styria GmbH, 8010 Graz, Austria.
(6)ÖVP Bad Radkersburg, Municipality of Bad Radkersburg, 8490 Bad Radkersburg, 
Austria.
(7)Directorate of Dosor Home for the Elderly, Tečni&Srečni, 9252 Radenci, 
Slovenia.
(8)General Hospital Murska Sobota, 9000 Murska Sobota, Slovenia.
(9)Styrian Hospitals Limited Liability Company KAGes, 8160 Federal Hospital Wei, 
Austria.
(10)Parktherme Bad Radkersburg Thermal Spa, 8490 Bad Radkersbur, Austria.
(11)Radkersburger Hof Center for Rehabilitation, 8490 Bad Radkersburg, Austria.
(12)Department of Internal Medicine, Federal Hospital Wagna, 8435 Wagna, 
Austria.
(13)Department of Internal Medicine, Federal Hospital Bad Radkersburg, 8490 Bad 
Radkersburg, Austria.

In view of ongoing demographic developments resulting in a longer life 
expectancy of the European population, the creation of "age-friendly" 
environments represents an initiative picked up by the European Union and its 
Member States to enable active and healthy ageing. The present study aims at the 
co-creation of a cross-border framework model to deploy a healthy ageing region 
linking Austria and Slovenia, building on previous work dealing with the 
development of an integrated regional ecosystem for active and healthy ageing. A 
qualitative, community-based action research method based on focus group 
discussions allowed the development of an exemplary framework model for active 
and healthy ageing building on cross-border collaboration in the region of 
Promura. Within the project group, twelve cross-border regional key assets were 
identified. In the course of further open discussions, an exemplary model for 
the deployment of a cross-border healthy ageing region was developed, comprising 
underlying fundamental environmental aspects, regional structures in the field 
of health and care as well as crosscutting features spreading across all levels. 
This article presents a promising, strategic co-creation approach on how to span 
a model on active and healthy ageing across two cross-border regions with 
similar characteristics and assets.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18020639
PMCID: PMC7828483
PMID: 33451090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that Christian Korn as CEO 
of the Parktherme Bad Radkersburg Thermal Spa and Klaus Pilz as CEO of the 
Radkersburger Hof Center for Rehabilitation are affiliated to organizations that 
may be affected by the research reported in the enclosed paper. These authors 
had no involvement in data synthesis, analysis or interpretation of reported 
research results or in the decision to publish the results in order to avoid and 
minimize any potential bias resulting from these affiliations.


565. Heart. 2021 Mar;107(5):389-395. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2020-316823. Epub 2021
Jan  15.

Long-term survival benefit of ramipril in patients with acute myocardial 
infarction complicated by heart failure.

Wu J(1)(2), Hall AS(3), Gale CP(4); AIREX Study Investigators.

Author information:
(1)School of Dentistry, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(2)Leeds Institute for Data Analytics, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(3)Medicine, Leeds Institute for Genetics Health and Therapeutics, Leeds, UK 
a.s.hall@leeds.ac.uk.
(4)Leeds Institute for Cardiovascular and Metabolic Medicine, University of 
Leeds, Leeds, UK.

AIMS: ACE inhibition reduces mortality and morbidity in patients with heart 
failure after acute myocardial infarction (AMI). However, there are limited 
randomised data about the long-term survival benefits of ACE inhibition in this 
population.
METHODS: In 1993, the Acute Infarction Ramipril Efficacy (AIRE) study randomly 
allocated patients with AMI and clinical heart failure to ramipril or placebo. 
The duration of masked trial therapy in the UK cohort (603 patients, mean 
age=64.7 years, 455 male patients) was 12.4 and 13.4 months for ramipril (n=302) 
and placebo (n=301), respectively. We estimated life expectancy and extensions 
of life (difference in median survival times) according to duration of follow-up 
(range 0-29.6 years).
RESULTS: By 9 April 2019, death from all causes occurred in 266 (88.4%) patients 
in placebo arm and 275 (91.1%) patients in ramipril arm. The extension of life 
between ramipril and placebo groups was 14.5 months (95% CI 13.2 to 15.8). 
Ramipril increased life expectancy more for patients with than without diabetes 
(life expectancy difference 32.1 vs 5.0 months), previous AMI (20.1 vs 4.9 
months), previous heart failure (19.5 vs 4.9 months), hypertension (16.6 vs 8.3 
months), angina (16.2 vs 5.0 months) and age >65 years (11.3 vs 5.7 months). 
Given potential treatment switching, the true absolute treatment effect could be 
underestimated by 28%.
CONCLUSION: For patients with clinically defined heart failure following AMI, 
ramipril results in a sustained survival benefit, and is associated with an 
extension of life of up to 14.5 months for, on average, 13 months treatment 
duration.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2020-316823
PMID: 33452123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


566. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2021 Aug;75(8):764-771. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2020-213791. Epub 2021 Jan 15.

Health expectancies in the European Union: same concept, different methods, 
different results.

Santos JV(1)(2)(3), Viana J(4)(2), Devleesschauwer B(5)(6), Haagsma JA(7), 
Santos CC(4)(2), Ricciardi W(8), Freitas A(4)(2).

Author information:
(1)MEDCIDS-Department of Community Medicine, Information and Health Decision 
Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal 
jvasco.santos@gmail.com.
(2)CINTESIS-Centre for Health Technology and Services Research, Porto, Portugal.
(3)Public Health Unit, ACES Grande Porto VIII - Espinho/Gaia, ARS Norte, 
Espinho/Gaia, Portugal.
(4)MEDCIDS-Department of Community Medicine, Information and Health Decision 
Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(5)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Sciensano, Brussels, Belgium.
(6)Department of Veterinary Public Health and Food Safety, Ghent University, 
Merelbeke, Belgium.
(7)Erasmus MC, University Medical Center, Rotterdam, Zuid-Holland, The 
Netherlands.
(8)Section of Hygiene, Institute of Public Health, Università Cattolica del 
Sacro Cuore, Fondazione Policlinico "A. Gemelli" IRCCS, Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Healthy life expectancy (HLE) is a population health measure that 
combines mortality and morbidity, which can be calculated using different 
methods. In this study, we aimed to assess the correlation, reliability and 
(dis)agreement between two estimates monitored in the European Union (EU), that 
is, the European Commission's HLE based on self-perceived health (SPH-HLE) and 
the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation's HLE based on disability weight 
(DW-HLE), by sex, and comparing these results with LE and proportion of life 
spent in good health (%GH).
METHODS: We performed a retrospective study in the EU28 countries, between 2010 
and 2017. The HLE methods differ in definition, measurement and valuation of 
health states. While SPH-HLE relies directly on one question, DW-HLE relies on 
epidemiological data adjusted for DW. Spearman's r, intraclass correlation 
coefficient, information-based measure of disagreement and Bland-Altman plots 
were used to assess reliability, correlation and disagreement in HLE resulting 
from both methods and in LE or %GH measured by both institutions.
RESULTS: Correlation and reliability between SPH-HLE and DW-HLE were good 
(better for males), with low disagreement, and were even better for LE between 
both institutions. The HLE Bland-Altman plots suggest a variability range of 
approximately 6 years for both sexes, higher for females. There was also an 
increasing HLE difference between methods with higher average HLE for both 
sexes.
CONCLUSION: We showed wide variations between both methods with a clear and 
different high impact on female and male HLE, showing a tendency for countries 
with higher health expectancies to yield larger gaps between SPH-HLE and DW-HLE.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2020-213791
PMID: 33452161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


567. Sci Rep. 2021 Jan 15;11(1):1619. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-80356-4.

Estimating the health burden of aflatoxin attributable stunting among children 
in low income countries of Africa.

Rasheed H(1)(2), Xu Y(3), Kimanya ME(4), Pan X(3), Li Z(5), Zou X(5), Shirima 
CP(6), Holmes M(1), Routledge MN(7)(8), Gong YY(9).

Author information:
(1)School of Food Science and Nutrition, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(2)Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(3)School of Medicine, University of Leeds, Leeds, LS2 9JT, UK.
(4)School of Life Sciences and Bioengineering, Nelson Mandela African 
Institution of Science and Technology, P. O. Box 447, Arusha, Tanzania.
(5)School of Food and Biological Engineering, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang, 
China.
(6)Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), P. O. Box 9524, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.
(7)School of Medicine, University of Leeds, Leeds, LS2 9JT, UK. 
medmnr@leeds.ac.uk.
(8)School of Food and Biological Engineering, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang, 
China. medmnr@leeds.ac.uk.
(9)School of Food Science and Nutrition, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK. 
medyg@leeds.ac.uk.

Numerous population-based studies have documented high prevalence of aflatoxin 
associated childhood stunting in low income countries. We provide an estimate of 
the disease burden of aflatoxin related stunting using data from the four 
African countries. For this empirical analysis, we obtained blood aflatoxin 
albumin adduct biomarker based exposure data as measured using ELISA technique 
and anthropometric measurement data from surveys done over a 12-year period from 
2001 to 2012 in four low income countries in Africa. We used these data to 
calculate population attributable risk (PAR), life time disease burden for 
children under five by comparing two groups of stunted children using both 
prevalence and incidence-based approaches. We combined prevalence estimates with 
a disability weight, measuring childhood stunting and co-occurrence of 
stunting-underweight to produce years lived with disability. Using a previously 
reported mortality, years of life lost were estimated. We used probabilistic 
analysis to model these associations to estimate the disability-adjusted 
life-years (DALYs), and compared these with those given by the Institute for 
Health Metrics and Evaluation's Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2016 study. The 
PAR increased from 3 to 36% for aflatoxin-related stunting and 14-50% for 
co-occurrence of stunting and underweight. Using prevalence-based approach, 
children with aflatoxin related stunting resulted in 48,965.20 (95% uncertainty 
interval (UI): 45,868.75-52,207.53) DALYs per 100,000 individuals. Children with 
co-occurrence of stunting and underweight due to exposure to aflatoxin resulted 
in 40,703.41 (95% UI: 38,041.57-43,517.89) DALYs per 100,000 individuals. 
Uncertainty analysis revealed that reducing aflatoxin exposure in high exposure 
areas upto non-detectable levels could save the stunting DALYs up to 50%. The 
burden of childhood all causes stunting is greater in countries with higher 
aflatoxin exposure such as Benin. In high exposure areas, these results might 
help guide research protocols and prioritisation efforts and focus aflatoxin 
exposure reduction. HEFCE Global Challenge Research Fund Aflatoxin project.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-80356-4
PMCID: PMC7810982
PMID: 33452336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


568. Dev Dyn. 2021 Jul;250(7):1021-1035. doi: 10.1002/dvdy.300. Epub 2021 Jan 25.

Miniaturization: How many cells are needed to build a tooth?

Larionova D(1), Lesot H(1), Huysseune A(1).

Author information:
(1)Evolutionary Developmental Biology Research Group, Department of Biology, 
