strategies, that cloud successfully influence patients' life expectancy. 
However, the most performing systems implement the so called black-box approach, 
which do not provide explicit rules to reach a decision. This lack of 
interpretability, has hampered the acceptance of those systems by clinicians and 
their deployment on the field. In this context, we perform a thorough comparison 
of different machine learning (ML) techniques, whose classification results are 
characterized by different levels of interpretability. Such techniques were 
applied for automatically identify PD patients through the analysis of 
handwriting and drawing samples. Results analysis shows that white-box 
approaches, such as Cartesian Genetic Programming and Decision Tree, allow to 
reach a twofold goal: support the diagnosis of PD and obtain explicit 
classification models, on which only a subset of features (related to specific 
tasks) were identified and exploited for classification. Obtained classification 
models provide important insights for the design of non-invasive, inexpensive 
and easy to administer diagnostic protocols. Comparison of different ML 
approaches (in terms of both accuracy and interpretability) has been performed 
on the features extracted from the handwriting and drawing samples included in 
the publicly available PaHaW and NewHandPD datasets. The experimental findings 
show that the Cartesian Genetic Programming outperforms the white-box methods in 
accuracy and the black-box ones in interpretability.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.artmed.2020.101984
PMID: 33461684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. J Diabetes Complications. 2021 Apr;35(4):107835. doi: 
10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2020.107835. Epub 2021 Jan 2.

The rational treatment of diabetes mellitus in older adults: The adequacy of 
treatment decisions based on individualized glycemic targets in primary and 
tertiary care.

Alessi J(1), Telo GH(2), de Oliveira GB(3), Schneiders J(4), Zanella MJB(3), 
Schaan BD(5).

Author information:
(1)Medical Science Program: Endocrinology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do 
Sul, Brazil; Internal Medicine Department, Hospital São Lucas - Pontifícia 
Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Electronic address: 
janinealessi@gmail.com.
(2)Internal Medicine Department, Hospital São Lucas - Pontifícia Universidade 
Católica do Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil; School of Medicine, Pontifícia 
Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil; Medicine and Health Sciences 
Program, Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(3)School of Medicine, Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul, 
Brazil.
(4)Medical Science Program: Endocrinology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do 
Sul, Brazil.
(5)Medical Science Program: Endocrinology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do 
Sul, Brazil; School of Medicine, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, 
Brazil; Endocrinology Division, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Brazil.

Comment in
    J Diabetes Complications. 2021 May;35(5):107872.

OBJECTIVES: To access the adequacy of treatment decisions in accordance with 
current recommendations for individualizing glycemic targets in primary and 
tertiary care.
METHODS: This multicenter cross-sectional study was conducted with a cohort of 
older type 2 diabetes patients from southern Brazil. Inclusion criteria were age 
over 65 years, having a previous diagnosis of type 2 diabetes (according to ADA 
criteria) and having at least two consultations registered in the medical 
records within one year. The primary outcome was the adequacy of treatment 
decisions according to pre-established HbA1c targets, which was compared with 
the complexity of care. The ideal HbA1c targets were: (1) 7-7.5% for an 
estimated life expectancy >10 years; (2) 7.5-8% for a life expectancy of 
5-10 years; (3) 8-8.5% for a life expectancy <5 years. For analysis, the 
chi-square test was used for categorical variables and the t-test was used for 
continuous variables.
RESULTS: Overall, 49.1% and 50.3% of the patients in the primary and tertiary 
care groups, respectively, received inadequate management. In patients whose 
HbA1c level was over target, the treatment was intensified in 46.3% and 51.2% of 
the primary and tertiary care groups, respectively (p = 0.57). In patients whose 
HbA1c level was under target, treatment was de-intensified in 5.9% and 26.2% in 
the primary and tertiary care groups, respectively (p <0.01).
CONCLUSION: Treatment changes based on individualized glycemic targets do occur 
in a minority of patients, which reflects the need for new strategies to 
facilitate individualized treatment targets and optimize the treatment adequacy 
in older adults.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2020.107835
PMID: 33461926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest No potential 
conflicts of interest relevant to this article were reported. The following are 
the supplementary data related to this article. Supplementary data to this 
article can be found online at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2020.107835.


592. BMJ. 2021 Jan 18;372:m4747. doi: 10.1136/bmj.m4747.

Management of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Petroni ML(1), Brodosi L(1), Bugianesi E(2)(3), Marchesini G(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, "Alma Mater" University, IRCCS 
Policlinico Sant'Orsola, Bologna, Italy.
(2)Division of Gastro-Hepatology, University of Turin, Turin, Italy.
(3)Contributed equally.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is a very common medical condition, driven by 
a combination of genetic and lifestyle factors, ultimately producing a severe 
chronic liver disease and increased cardiovascular risk. Most people are 
asymptomatic for a long time, and their daily life is unaffected, leading to 
difficulty in identifying and managing people who slowly progress to 
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), NASH-cirrhosis, and eventually 
hepatocellular carcinoma. Despite advances in the understanding of pathogenic 
mechanisms and the identification of liver fibrosis as the strongest factor in 
predicting disease progression, no specific treatments have been approved by 
regulatory agencies. Outside controlled trials, treatment is generally limited 
to lifestyle intervention aimed at weight loss. Pioglitazone remains the drug of 
choice to reduce progression of fibrosis in people with diabetes, although it is 
often used off-label in the absence of diabetes. Vitamin E is mainly used in 
children and may be considered in adults without diabetes. Several drugs are 
under investigation according to the agreed targets of reduced NASH activity 
without worsening of fibrosis or improving fibrosis without worsening of NASH. 
Anti-inflammatory, anti-fibrotic agents and metabolism modulators have been 
tested in either phase III or phase IIb randomized controlled trials; a few 
failed, and others have produced marginally positive results, but only a few are 
being tested in extension studies. The development of non-invasive, easily 
repeatable surrogate biomarkers and/or imaging tools is crucial to facilitate 
clinical studies and limit liver biopsy.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.m4747
PMID: 33461969

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: We have read and understood 
the BMJ policy on declaration of interests and declare the following interests: 
MLP has participated in an advisory board of Novo Nordisk; EB has received a 
grant from Gilead and participated in advisory boards of BMS, GENFIT, Gilead, 
Intercept, Inventiva, Novo-Nordisk, and Pfizer; GM has received honorariums from 
Eli Lilly and participated in advisory boards of Gilead, Novartis, Astra-Zeneca, 
Pfizer, and Mundipharma.


593. Pharmacogenomics J. 2021 Apr;21(2):243-250. doi: 10.1038/s41397-020-00204-6.
 Epub 2021 Jan 18.

Cost-effectiveness of CYP2C19-guided antiplatelet therapy for acute coronary 
syndromes in Singapore.

Kim JH(1), Tan DS(2), Chan MYY(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Khoo Teck Puat Hospital, Singapore, 768828, 
Singapore. kim.ji.heon@ktph.com.sg.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Khoo Teck Puat Hospital, Singapore, 768828, 
Singapore.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Yong Loo-Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, Singapore, 119228, Singapore.

We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of a genotype-guided strategy among patients 
with acute coronary syndromes using a decision-tree model based on the Singapore 
healthcare payer's perspective over a 1-year time horizon. Three dual 
antiplatelet strategies were considered: universal clopidogrel, genotype-guided, 
and universal ticagrelor. The prevalence of loss-of-function alleles was assumed 
to be 61.7% and model inputs were identified from the literature. Our primary 
outcome of interest was incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) compared to 
universal clopidogrel. Both genotype-guided (72,158 SGD/QALY) and universal 
ticagrelor (82,269 SGD/QALY) were considered cost-effective based on a 
willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold of SGD 88,991. In our secondary analysis, the 
ICER for universal ticagrelor was 114,998 SGD/QALY when genotype-guided was 
taken as a reference. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis revealed that 
genotype-guided was the most cost-effective strategy when the WTP threshold was 
between SGD 70,000 to 100,000. Until more data are available, our study suggests 
that funding for a once-off CYP2C19 testing merits a consideration over 1 year 
of universal ticagrelor.

DOI: 10.1038/s41397-020-00204-6
PMID: 33462345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Nat Metab. 2021 Jan;3(1):33-42. doi: 10.1038/s42255-020-00334-y. Epub 2021
Jan  18.

Tetracyclines promote survival and fitness in mitochondrial disease models.

Perry EA(#)(1)(2)(3), Bennett CF(#)(1)(2), Luo C(1)(2), Balsa E(1)(2), 
Jedrychowski M(1)(2), O'Malley KE(1)(2), Latorre-Muro P(1)(2), Ladley RP(4), 
Reda K(4), Wright PM(4), Gygi SP(2), Myers AG(4), Puigserver P(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Program, Harvard School of Dental 
Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, 
MA, USA.
(5)Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA, USA. 
pere_puigserver@dfci.harvard.edu.
(6)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. 
pere_puigserver@dfci.harvard.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Mitochondrial diseases (MDs) are a heterogeneous group of disorders resulting 
from mutations in nuclear or mitochondrial DNA genes encoding mitochondrial 
proteins1,2. MDs cause pathologies with severe tissue damage and ultimately 
death3,4. There are no cures for MDs and current treatments are only 
palliative5-7. Here we show that tetracyclines improve fitness of cultured MD 
cells and ameliorate disease in a mouse model of Leigh syndrome. To identify 
small molecules that prevent cellular damage and death under nutrient stress 
conditions, we conduct a chemical high-throughput screen with cells carrying 
human MD mutations and discover a series of antibiotics that maintain survival 
of various MD cells. We subsequently show that a sub-library of tetracycline 
analogues, including doxycycline, rescues cell death and inflammatory signatures 
in mutant cells through partial and selective inhibition of mitochondrial 
translation, resulting in an ATF4-independent mitohormetic response. Doxycycline 
treatment strongly promotes fitness and survival of Ndufs4-/- mice, a 
preclinical Leigh syndrome mouse model8. A proteomic analysis of brain tissue 
reveals that doxycycline treatment largely prevents neuronal death and the 
accumulation of neuroimmune and inflammatory proteins in Ndufs4-/- mice, 
indicating a potential causal role for these proteins in the brain pathology. 
Our findings suggest that tetracyclines deserve further evaluation as potential 
drugs for the treatment of MDs.

DOI: 10.1038/s42255-020-00334-y
PMCID: PMC7856165
PMID: 33462515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


595. Qual Life Res. 2021 Jun;30(6):1571-1582. doi: 10.1007/s11136-020-02751-8.
Epub  2021 Jan 19.

Subjective life expectancy and associated factors among cancer survivors over 
45 years old: evidence from the CHARLS.

Chen Z(1), Zhu D(2), Hu X(3), Gao G(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Insurance, Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis and 
Translational Research (Ministry of Education), Peking University Cancer 
Hospital & Institute, Beijing, China.
(2)Center for Health Development Studies, Peking University, Beijing, China.
(3)School of Public Health, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(4)School of Public Health, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China. 
gaoguangying@yeah.net.

PURPOSE: Associations between subjective life expectancy (SLE) and a variety of 
factors are well documented, but the relationship regarding cancer is limited. 
The purpose of this study was to disclose this potential relationship and 
identify the covariates that might influence this relationship.
METHODS: Data were extracted from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal 
Study (CHARLS), and a sample of 448 cancer survivors and 43,795 individuals 
without cancer were analyzed. Multilevel mixed-effects logistic regression was 
performed to examine the SLE associated with cancer survivors and participants 
without cancer after controlling for demographic, socioeconomic, health-related, 
and psychosocial factors.
RESULTS: The findings revealed that cancer survivors had a 39% reduction in 
longer life expectancy compared to respondents without cancer. Disparities in 
SLE existed based on diverse individual characteristics. The rate of high SLE in 
urban citizens was 75% higher compared to that of rural residents, while the 
rate of high SLE in participants with disability fell by 55%. The rate of high 
SLE decreased by 22% and 35% in respondents with high blood pressure and 
diabetes, respectively. The proportion of respondents with high SLE was reduced 
by 70% when depression was present. Furthermore, the out-of-pocket expenditures 
of participants with and without cancer showed a significant difference, but 
discrepancies with respect to SLE among different cancer treatment options were 
not found.
CONCLUSION: The more challenging one's socioeconomic status is and the 
unhealthier one's physical and mental conditions are, the lower one's prospect 
of subjective life expectancy is. Further work is warranted to confirm the 
causal association between subjective life expectancy and certain 
characteristics in cancer survivors.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-020-02751-8
PMID: 33462662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Herz. 2021 Mar;46(2):120-128. doi: 10.1007/s00059-020-05016-9. Epub 2021 Jan
18.

[Air pollution and cardiovascular diseases].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Münzel T(1), Hahad O(2), Daiber A(2), Lelieveld J(3).

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Kardiologie - Kardiologie I, Universitätsmedizin der 
Johannes-Gutenberg-Universität Mainz, Langenbeckstraße 1, 55131, Mainz, 
Deutschland. tmuenzel@uni-mainz.de.
(2)Zentrum für Kardiologie - Kardiologie I, Universitätsmedizin der 
Johannes-Gutenberg-Universität Mainz, Langenbeckstraße 1, 55131, Mainz, 
Deutschland.
(3)Max-Planck-Institut für Chemie, Johannes-Gutenberg-Universität Mainz, Mainz, 
Deutschland.

Air pollution in the environment and in households is responsible worldwide for 
almost 9 million preventable premature deaths per year and almost 800,000 such 
deaths within Europe. Air pollution therefore shortens life expectancy worldwide 
by almost 3 years. Smoking, a proven cardiovascular risk factor, shortens the 
mean life expectancy by 2.2 years. Epidemiological studies have shown that air 
pollution from fine and coarse particulate matter is associated with increased 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Responsible for this are mainly 
cardiovascular diseases, such as coronary heart disease, heart attack, heart 
failure, stroke, hypertension and also diabetes, which are mainly caused or 
aggravated by fine particulate matter. After inhalation fine particulate matter 
can reach the brain directly and also reach the bloodstream via a transition 
process. There, the particles are absorbed by the blood vessels where they 
stimulate the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the vascular wall. 
They therefore promote the formation of atherosclerotic changes and in this way 
increase the cardiovascular risks, especially an increase in chronic ischemic 
heart disease and stroke. Recent studies also reported that in coronavirus 
disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients a high degree of air pollution is correlated 
with severe disease courses with cardiovascular complications and pulmonary 
diseases. This necessitates preventive measures, such as lowering of the upper 
limits for air pollutants. Individual measures to mitigate the health 
consequences of fine particulate matter are also discussed.

Publisher: Die Luftverschmutzung in der Umgebung und in Haushalten ist weltweit 
jährlich für mittlerweile knapp 9 Mio. vermeidbare, vorzeitige Todesfälle und 
innerhalb Europas für knapp 800.000 solcher Todesfälle verantwortlich. Die 
Luftverschmutzung verkürzt somit weltweit die Lebenserwartung um knapp 3 Jahre. 
Das Rauchen, ein nachgewiesener Herz-Kreislauf-Risiko-Faktor, verkürzt die 
mittlere Lebenserwartung um 2,2 Jahre. Epidemiologische Studien zeigen, dass 
Luftverschmutzung durch Feinstaub mit erhöhter kardiovaskulärer Morbidität und 
Mortalität assoziiert ist. Hierfür verantwortlich sind hauptsächlich durch 
Feinstaub ausgelöste oder verschlimmerte Herz-Kreislauf-Erkrankungen, wie 
koronare Herzkrankheit (KHK), Herzinfarkt, Herzinsuffizienz, Schlaganfall, 
Hypertonie und auch Diabetes. Feinstaubpartikel können nach Inhalation zum einen 
direkt ins Gehirn und zum anderen über einen Transitionsprozess in die Blutbahn 
gelangen. Dort werden sie in die Blutgefäße aufgenommen, wo sie die Bildung 
reaktiver Sauerstoffspezies (ROS) in der Gefäßwand stimulieren. Damit 
begünstigen sie die Entstehung atherosklerotischer Veränderungen und steigern so 
das kardiovaskuläre Risiko, insbesondere eine Zunahme an chronisch-ischämischer 
Herzerkrankung und Schlaganfall. Neuere Untersuchungen berichten, dass bei 
COVID-19(„coronavirus disease 2019“)-Patienten ein hoher Grad an 
Luftverschmutzung mit schweren Krankheitsverläufen mit kardiovaskulären 
Komplikationen und Lungenerkrankungen korreliert. Dies macht präventive 
Maßnahmen, wie z. B. eine Absenkung der Grenzwerte für Luftschadstoffe, 
erforderlich. Individuelle Maßnahmen, um die gesundheitlichen Folgen von 
Feinstaub abzumildern, werden ebenfalls diskutiert.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-020-05016-9
PMCID: PMC7812988
PMID: 33462701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Pharmacoeconomics. 2021 Mar;39(3):287-315. doi: 10.1007/s40273-020-00991-7.
Epub  2021 Jan 19.

Assessment of the Effects of Active Immunisation against Respiratory Syncytial 
Virus (RSV) using Decision-Analytic Models: A Systematic Review with a Focus on 
Vaccination Strategies, Modelling Methods and Input Data.

Treskova M(1), Pozo-Martin F(2), Scholz S(2), Schönfeld V(2), Wichmann O(2), 
Harder T(2).

Author information:
(1)Immunization Unit, Robert Koch Institute, Seestrasse 10, 13353, Berlin, 
Germany. TreskovaM@rki.de.
(2)Immunization Unit, Robert Koch Institute, Seestrasse 10, 13353, Berlin, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND: Several vaccine and antibody candidates are currently in development 
for the prevention of lower respiratory tract infections caused by the 
respiratory syncytial virus (RSV).
METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, Embase, and SCOPUS and included model-based 
evaluations of RSV vaccinations. Two reviewers performed the selection, data 
extraction, and quality evaluation with EVIDEM. Cost-effectiveness (CE) 
estimates were converted to $US purchasing power parity (PPP), year 2018 values. 
Potential economic and epidemiological outcomes were summarised for maternal, 
infant, children, and elderly vaccinations. The PROSPERO identifier is 
CRD42019122570.
RESULTS: In total, 22 model-based studies were reviewed. On average, a potential 
27% reduction in RSV hospitalisations in infants was projected for maternal 
vaccination and 50% for direct infant immunisation. The CE of maternal 
vaccination was $US1766-5857 PPP 2018/disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) for 
Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation (Gavi)-eligible countries. For 
England, the maximum cost-effective price of maternal vaccination was estimated 
at $US81.5 PPP 2018. Infant vaccination was associated with higher CE ratios in 
low- and high-income settings. Vaccination of neonates born before the RSV 
season was the most cost effective in high-income settings. Higher values for 
vaccine effectiveness, duration of protection, and vaccine uptake increased the 
benefits. Due to indirect effects, the vaccination of school-age children and a 
cocooning strategy were effective alternatives to protect infants, and the 
vaccination of children aged < 5 years had a beneficial impact on the elderly.
CONCLUSION: RSV vaccines with anticipated characteristics may reduce a sizeable 
proportion of the RSV burden. The results are subject to uncertainty because of 
the limited epidemiological and clinical data. Data on RSV incidence and 
hospitalisation risk for granular age strata should be prioritised to facilitate 
the evaluation of RSV interventions and decision making.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-020-00991-7
PMCID: PMC7813556
PMID: 33462760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Marina Treskova, Francisco Pozo-Martin, Stefan 
Scholz, Viktoria Schönfeld, Ole Wichmann, and Thomas Harder have no conflicts of 
interest that are directly relevant to the content of this article.


598. JAMA Netw Open. 2021 Jan 4;4(1):e2033761. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2020.33761.

Cost-effectiveness of Pembrolizumab as a Second-Line Therapy for Hepatocellular 
Carcinoma.

Chiang CL(1), Chan SK(1), Lee SF(2), Wong IO(3), Choi HC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong (SAR), 
China.
(2)Department of Clinical Oncology, Tuen Mun Hospital, Hong Kong (SAR), China.
(3)School of Public Health, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong (SAR), China.

Comment in
    JAMA Netw Open. 2021 Jan 4;4(1):e2034020.

IMPORTANCE: Immune checkpoint inhibitors have been approved for use as a 
second-line therapy for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in patients who 
previously received sorafenib. Pembrolizumab has shown substantial antitumor 
activity and a favorable toxicity profile as a second-line treatment of HCC. 
However, considering the high cost of pembrolizumab, there is a need to assess 
its value by considering both the clinical efficacy and cost.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of pembrolizumab vs placebo as 
second-line therapy in patients with HCC from the US payer perspective.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A Markov model was developed to compare the 
lifetime cost and efficacy of pembrolizumab as a second-line treatment of HCC 
with those of placebo using outcome data from the KEYNOTE-240 randomized 
placebo-controlled trial, which included 413 patients with advanced HCC 
previously treated with sorafenib and randomized patients to receive 
pembrolizumab plus best supportive care or placebo plus best supportive care in 
a 2:1 ratio.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Life-years, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), 
lifetime costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) were estimated 
at a willingness-to-pay threshold of $150 000 per QALY. One-way and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed to account for the parameter 
of uncertainty. A cost-threshold analysis was also performed. The study was 
conducted from January 31 to July 29, 2020.
RESULTS: The base-case model found that treatment with pembrolizumab was 
associated with increased overall cost by $47 057 and improved effectiveness by 
0.138 QALYs compared with placebo, leading to an ICER of $340 409 per QALY. The 
model was most sensitive to the hazard ratio of overall survival (range, 
0.61-1.00), health utility of placebo (range, 0.59-0.93), price of pembrolizumab 
(range, $5531-$8297), and price of postprogression therapies (range, $5596-$7944 
for pembrolizumab and $4770-$7156 for placebo). The ICER of pembrolizumab was 
larger than $150 000 per QALY in most of the sensitivity and subgroup analyses. 
The price of pembrolizumab needed to be reduced by 57.7% to $2925 per cycle to 
achieve cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The findings of this cost-effectiveness analysis 
suggest that, at its current price, pembrolizumab is not a cost-effective 
second-line therapy for HCC in the US, with a willingness-to-pay threshold of 
$150 000 per QALY.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2020.33761
PMCID: PMC7816108
PMID: 33464318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Chiang 
reported receiving grants and personal fees from AstraZeneca, grants from Merck 
Kgga, and personal fees from Eiasi outside the submitted work. No other 
disclosures were reported.


599. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2022 Jan;22(1):53-61. doi: 
10.1080/14737167.2021.1878881. Epub 2021 Feb 1.

A systematic review and meta-regression of studies eliciting willingness-to-pay 
per quality-adjusted life year in the general population.

Ye Z(1), Ma J(1), Liu F(1), Wang C(1), Zhou Z(1), Sun L(1).

Author information:
(1)School of business administration, Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, 
Shenyang, China.

OBJECTIVES: From the demand-side perspective, the monetary value of one 
additional quality-adjusted life year (QALY) is estimated as willingness-to-pay 
per QALY (WTPQ). This study aims to summarize the methods and contexts of 
elicitation of willingness-to-pay per quality-adjusted life year (WTPQ) in the 
general population and to investigate the heterogeneity of WTPQ estimates.
METHODS: Meta-regression analysis was conducted using Comprehensive 
Meta-Analysis Software. Sensitivity analyses were undertaken by replacing the 
lowest and highest 5% and 2.5% of WTPQ by percentiles.
RESULTS: 33 studies with 102 WTPQ estimates were included. The overall mean and 
median WTPQ estimates are $1,280,002 and $44,072, respectively. The 
meta-regressions demonstrated that types of health gain (quality of life or life 
length) and certainty of health outcomes are statistically significant factors. 
Furthermore, compared with online interviews, face-to-face interviews tend to 
yield lower WTPQ. Moreover, the declining trend of QALY gains and positive 
effect with statistical significance of the sample age were also noticed.
CONCLUSION: For valid and representative values of WTPQ, future researchers 
should therefore take into consideration various scenarios and investigate both 
health gain with certainty and uncertainty, health gain from both life length 
and quality of life, and different size of QALY gains.

DOI: 10.1080/14737167.2021.1878881
PMID: 33464926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Biol Lett. 2021 Jan;17(1):20200819. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2020.0819. Epub 2021
Jan  20.

Fish from urban rivers and with high pollutant levels have shorter telomeres.

Molbert N(1), Angelier F(2), Alliot F(1)(3), Ribout C(2), Goutte A(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Sorbonne Université, CNRS, EPHE, UMR METIS, 75005 Paris, France.
(2)Centre d'Etudes Biologiques de Chizé (CEBC), UMR 7372 CNRS, La Rochelle 
Université, 79360 Villiers en Bois, France.
(3)EPHE, PSL Research University, 75005 Paris, France.

Environmental pressures, such as urbanization and exposure to pollutants may 
jeopardize survival of free-living animals. Yet, much remains to be known about 
physiological and ecological responses to currently-released pollutants, 
especially in wild vertebrate ectotherms. We tested the effect of urbanization 
and pollution (phthalates, organochlorine and pyrethroid pesticides, 
polychlorobiphenyls, polybromodiphenylethers, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, 
and some of their metabolites) on telomere length, a suggested biomarker of life 
expectancy, in the European chub, Squalius cephalus, from urban and agricultural 
rivers of the Marne hydrographic network, France. We showed that telomere length 
was reduced in chub from urban rivers. Moreover, among the wide range of 
anthropogenic contaminants investigated, high levels of phthalate metabolites in 
liver were associated with shorter telomeres. This study suggests that 
urbanization and chemical pollution may compromise survival of wild fish, by 
accelerating telomere attrition.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2020.0819
PMCID: PMC7876608
PMID: 33465329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: We declare we have no competing interests.601. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Jan 5;18(1):352. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18010352.

Demographic Assessment of Down Syndrome: A Systematic Review.

Huete-García A(1), Otaola-Barranquero M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute on Community Integration (INICO), School of Education, University 
of Salamanca, Paseo de Canalejas 169, 37008 Salamanca, Spain.

The objective of this study is to assess the evidence about the demographic 
transformation of the Down Syndrome population, with a specific focus on 
prenatal testing, and to identify sources frequently used for demographic 
assessment of Down Syndrome in the world. We reviewed existing studies on 
demographic transformations in the population with Down Syndrome, specifically 
birthrate indicators, under the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews 
and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) Statement. The searches were made in Medline (via 
EBSCO Host), Academic Search Complete (via EBSCO Host), PsycINFO (via EBSCO 
Host), Web of Science (Core Collection), Public Health Database (via ProQuest), 
and The Cochrane Library. The terms were developed through Medical Subject 
Headings (MESH) and American Psycological Asociation Thesaurus of Psychological 
Index Terms (APA). Full texts were reviewed if information was given regarding 
location and birthrate for a range of three years or more, and if the first and 
last year considered was within 1960 and 2019. We found 22 references with a 
period of study between 1960 and 2019 following the global spread of prenatal 
testing for Down Syndrome. We found a consistent association between prenatal 
diagnosis and birthrate, enough to explain the significant fall in the 
prevalence of Down Syndrome, a somewhat rising incidence of Down Syndrome 
related to increased maternal age and extension of fertility services in 
healthcare systems, a generalized use of specific congenital birth defect 
registries as the primary source of data, and an unclear influence of 
socio-cultural and territorial variables. Our findings can inform research, 
policy, and practice to improve the reproductive health and quality of life of 
the population with Down Syndrome.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18010352
PMCID: PMC7796484
PMID: 33466470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


602. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Jan 14;18(2):661. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18020661.

New Perspective on Why Women Live Longer Than Men: An Exploration of Power, 
Gender, Social Determinants, and Capitals.

Baum F(1), Musolino C(1), Gesesew HA(2)(3), Popay J(4).

Author information:
(1)Southgate Institute for Health, Society & Equity, Flinders University, 
Adelaide 5042, Australia.
(2)College of Medicine and Public Health, Flinders University, Adelaide 5048, 
Australia.
(3)Epidemiology, School of Health Sciences, Mekelle University, Mekelle 231, 
Ethiopia.
(4)Division of Health Research, Faculty of Health & Medicine, Lancaster 
University, Lancaster LA1 4YW, UK.

BACKGROUND: Women live longer than men, even though many of the recognised 
social determinants of health are worse for women than men. No existing 
explanations account fully for these differences in life expectancy, although 
they do highlight the complexity and interaction of biological, social and 
health service factors.
METHODS: this paper is an exploratory explanation of gendered life expectancy 
difference (GLED) using a novel combination of epidemiological and sociological 
methods. We present the global picture of GLED. We then utilise a secondary data 
comparative case analysis offering explanations for GLED in Australia and 
Ethiopia. We combine a social determinant of health lens with Bourdieu's 
concepts of capitals (economic, cultural, symbolic and social).
RESULTS: we confirmed continuing GLED in all countries ranging from less than a 
year to over 11 years. The Australian and Ethiopian cases demonstrated the 
complex factors underpinning this difference, highlighting similarities and 
differences in socioeconomic and cultural factors and how they are gendered 
within and between the countries. Bourdieu's capitals enabled us to partially 
explain GLED and to develop a conceptual model of causal pathways.
CONCLUSION: we demonstrate the value of combing a SDH and Bourdieu's capital 
lens to investigate GLED. We proposed a theoretical framework to guide future 
research.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18020661
PMCID: PMC7829786
PMID: 33466763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. 
F.B. is an independent member of The Lancet Commission on Gender and Global 
Health and Co-Chair of the Global Steering Council of the People’s Health 
Movement.


603. Antioxidants (Basel). 2021 Jan 14;10(1):113. doi: 10.3390/antiox10010113.

Astaxanthin-, β-Carotene-, and Resveratrol-Rich Foods Support Resistance 
Training-Induced Adaptation.

Kawamura A(1)(2), Aoi W(1), Abe R(1)(3), Kobayashi Y(1), Kuwahata M(1), Higashi 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Applied Life Sciences, Graduate School of Life and Environmental 
Sciences, Kyoto Prefectural University, Kyoto 6068522, Japan.
(2)Sports Science Research Promotion Center, Nippon Sport Science University, 
Tokyo 1588508, Japan.
(3)Department of Nutrition Management, Wakayama Medical University Hospital, 
Wakayama 6418510, Japan.

Resistance training adaptively increases the muscle strength associated with 
protein anabolism. Previously, we showed that the combined intake of 
astaxanthin, β-carotene, and resveratrol can accelerate protein anabolism in the 
skeletal muscle of mice. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect 
of anabolic nutrient-rich foods on muscle adaptation induced by resistance 
training. Twenty-six healthy men were divided into control and intervention 
groups. All participants underwent a resistance training program twice a week 
for 10 weeks. Astaxanthin-, β-carotene-, and resveratrol-rich foods were 
provided to the intervention group. Body composition, nutrient intake, maximal 
voluntary contraction of leg extension, oxygen consumption, and serum 
carbonylated protein level were measured before and after training. The skeletal 
muscle mass was higher after training than before training in both groups (p < 
0.05). Maximal voluntary contraction was increased after training in the 
intervention group (p < 0.05), but not significantly increased in the control 
group. Resting oxygen consumption was higher after training in the intervention 
group only (p < 0.05). As an oxidative stress marker, serum carbonylated protein 
level tended to be lower immediately after exercise than before exercise in the 
intervention group only (p = 0.056). Intake of astaxanthin-, β-carotene-, and 
resveratrol-rich foods supported resistance training-induced strength and 
metabolic adaptations.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox10010113
PMCID: PMC7830030
PMID: 33466842

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that no conflict of interest 
are associated with this manuscript.


604. Cells. 2021 Jan 16;10(1):174. doi: 10.3390/cells10010174.

The Impact of HIV- and ART-Induced Mitochondrial Dysfunction in Cellular 
Senescence and Aging.

Schank M(1)(2), Zhao J(1)(2), Moorman JP(1)(2)(3), Yao ZQ(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Center of Excellence in Inflammation, Infectious Disease and Immunity, James 
H. Quillen College of Medicine, East Tennessee State University, Johnson City, 
TN 37614, USA.
(2)Division of Infectious, Inflammatory and Immunologic Diseases, Department of 
Internal Medicine, Quillen College of Medicine, East Tennessee State University, 
Johnson City, TN 37614, USA.
(3)Hepatitis (HCV/HBV/HIV) Program, James H. Quillen VA Medical Center, 
Department of Veterans Affairs, Johnson City, TN 37614, USA.

According to the WHO, 38 million individuals were living with human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), 25.4 million of which were using antiretroviral 
therapy (ART) at the end of 2019. Despite ART-mediated suppression of viral 
replication, ART is not a cure and is associated with viral persistence, 
residual inflammation, and metabolic disturbances. Indeed, due to the presence 
of viral reservoirs, lifelong ART therapy is required to control viremia and 
prevent disease progression into acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). 
Successful ART treatment allows people living with HIV (PLHIV) to achieve a 
similar life expectancy to uninfected individuals. However, recent studies have 
illustrated the presence of increased comorbidities, such as accelerated, 
premature immune aging, in ART-controlled PLHIV compared to uninfected 
individuals. Studies suggest that both HIV-infection and ART-treatment lead to 
mitochondrial dysfunction, ultimately resulting in cellular exhaustion, 
senescence, and apoptosis. Since mitochondria are essential cellular organelles 
for energy homeostasis and cellular metabolism, their compromise leads to 
decreased oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS), ATP synthesis, gluconeogenesis, 
and beta-oxidation, abnormal cell homeostasis, increased oxidative stress, 
depolarization of the mitochondrial membrane potential, and upregulation of 
mitochondrial DNA mutations and cellular apoptosis. The progressive 
mitochondrial damage induced by HIV-infection and ART-treatment likely 
contributes to accelerated aging, senescence, and cellular dysfunction in PLHIV. 
This review discusses the connections between mitochondrial compromise and 
cellular dysfunction associated with HIV- and ART-induced toxicities, providing 
new insights into how HIV and current ART directly impact mitochondrial 
functions and contribute to cellular senescence and aging in PLHIV. Identifying 
this nexus and potential mechanisms may be beneficial in developing improved 
therapeutics for treating PLHIV.

DOI: 10.3390/cells10010174
PMCID: PMC7830696
PMID: 33467074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


605. J Funct Morphol Kinesiol. 2020 Apr 25;5(2):27. doi: 10.3390/jfmk5020027.

Physiological, Psychological and Performance-Related Changes Following Physique 
Competition: A Case-Series.

Longstrom JM(1), Colenso-Semple LM(1), Waddell BJ(1), Mastrofini G(1), Trexler 
ET(1), Campbell BI(1).

Author information:
(1)Exercise Science Program, University of South Florida, Performance and 
Physique Enhancement Laboratory, Tampa, FL 33620, USA.

The purpose of this case-series was to evaluate the physiological, psychological 
and performance-related changes that occur during the postcompetition period. 
Participants included three male (34.3 ± 6.8 years, 181.6 ± 8.9 cm) and four 
female (29.3 ± 4.9 years, 161.4 ± 6.0 cm) natural physique athletes. Body 
composition (fat mass (FM) and fat-free mass (FFM); Skinfold), resting metabolic 
rate (RMR; indirect calorimetry), total body water (TBW; bioelectrical impedance 
analysis), sleep quality (PSQI; Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index), quality of life 
measures (RAND SF36), menstrual irregularities, and knee extension performance 
were assessed 1-2 weeks prior to competition, and 4 weeks and 8-10 weeks 
postcompetition. Blood hormones (free triiodothyronine; T3, free thyroxine; T4, 
and leptin) were assessed at 1-2 weeks prior to competition and 8-10 weeks 
postcompetition. Participants tracked daily macronutrient intake daily for the 
duration of the study. Group-level data were analyzed using exploratory, 
one-tailed, nonparametric statistical tests. Bodyweight, FM, bodyfat%, RMR, and 
blood hormones (T3, T4, and leptin) increased significantly (p < 0.05) at the 
group level. Relative (%Δ) increases in fat mass were associated with △RMR (τ = 
0.90; p = 0.001) and △leptin (τ = 0.68; p = 0.02), and △leptin was associated 
with △RMR (τ = 0.59; p = 0.03). The time course for recovery appears to vary 
substantially between individuals potentially due to strategies implemented 
postcompetition.

DOI: 10.3390/jfmk5020027
PMCID: PMC7739261
PMID: 33467243

Conflict of interest statement: J.M.L. and E.T.T. earn income as writers and 
practitioners within the fitness industry. The other authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


606. J Funct Morphol Kinesiol. 2019 Dec 2;4(4):72. doi: 10.3390/jfmk4040072.

The Biomechanics of Pregnancy: A Systematic Review.

Conder R(1), Zamani R(1), Akrami M(2).

Author information:
(1)Medical School, University of Exeter, Exeter EX1 2LU, UK.
(2)Department of Engineering, College of Engineering, Mathematics, and Physical 
Sciences University of Exeter, Exeter EX4 4QF, UK.

During pregnancy, a number of biomechanical and hormonal changes occur that can 
alter spinal curvature, balance, and gait patterns by affecting key areas of the 
human body. This can greatly impact quality of life (QOL) by increasing back 
pain and the risk of falls. These effects are likely to be the ultimate result 
of a number of hormonal and biomechanical changes that occur during pregnancy. 
Research Question and Methodology: Using the Preferred Reporting Items for 
Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines, this systematic review 
sets out to analyse all available literature relating to the biomechanics 
factors caused by pregnancy and assess how this might reduce QOL. Fifty papers 
were deemed eligible for inclusion in this review based on the PUBMED and SCOPUS 
databases. Results: Angles of lordosis and kyphosis of the spine are 
significantly increased by pregnancy, but not consistently across all studies. 
Back pain is significantly increased in pregnant women, although this is not 
significantly correlated with spinal changes. Increased movements of centre of 
pressure (COP) and increased stability indexes indicate postural control is 
reduced in pregnancy. Trunk range of motion, hip flexion, and extension are 
reduced, as well as decreased stride length, decreased gait velocity, and 
increased step width; again, not consistently. It is likely that each woman 
adopts unique techniques to minimise the effects, for example increasing step 
width to improve balance. Further research should focus on how altered limb 
kinematics during gait might affect QOL by influencing the human body, as well 
as assessing parameters in all planes to develop a wider understanding of 
pregnant biomechanical alterations.

DOI: 10.3390/jfmk4040072
PMCID: PMC7739277
PMID: 33467386

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


607. Psychol Rep. 2022 Apr;125(2):1041-1067. doi: 10.1177/0033294121988997. Epub
2021  Jan 19.

Will Life Extension Affect Our Social Judgments? Evidence That the Possibility 
of Indefinite Life Extension Increases Harshness Toward Social Transgressors.

Helm PJ(1), Lifshin U(2), Greenberg J(3), Pyszczynski T(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Sciences, University of Missouri, Columbia, USA.
(2)Department of Psychology, Interdisciplinary Center, Herzliya, Israel.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Arizona, Tucson, USA.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Colorado, Colorado Springs, USA.

We tested the hypothesis that if indefinite life extension (ILE) through medical 
technologies were to become a reality, then people may become harsher in their 
judgment of social transgressors. In support of this hypothesis, we found that 
higher positive attitudes towards ILE technologies related to harshness in 
judgment of social transgressions (Study 1), and that making ILE plausible 
(compared to not plausible) led participants to endorse harsher punishments for 
social transgressors (Studies 2-3). We replicated this effect and found that it 
is not amplified by subliminal death primes, although the primes also increased 
harshness (Study 3). These results may have implications to understanding how 
social judgment may be affected by the prospect of ILE.

DOI: 10.1177/0033294121988997
PMID: 33467977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2021 Aug;75(8):735-740. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2020-215505. Epub 2021 Jan 19.

Estimating the burden of the COVID-19 pandemic on mortality, life expectancy and 
lifespan inequality in England and Wales: a population-level analysis.

Aburto JM(1)(2), Kashyap R(1), Schöley J(2), Angus C(3), Ermisch J(4), Mills 
MC(4), Dowd JB(4).

Author information:
(1)Leverhulme Centre for Demographic Science, Department of Sociology and 
Nuffield College, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK 
jose-manuel.aburto@sociology.ox.ac.uk ridhi.kashyap@nuffield.ox.ac.uk.
(2)Interdisciplinary Centre on Population Dynamics, University of Southern 
Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(3)ScHARR, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(4)Leverhulme Centre for Demographic Science, Department of Sociology and 
Nuffield College, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

BACKGROUND: Deaths directly linked to COVID-19 infection may be misclassified, 
and the pandemic may have indirectly affected other causes of death. To overcome 
these measurement challenges, we estimate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on 
mortality, life expectancy and lifespan inequality from week 10 of 2020, when 
the first COVID-19 death was registered, to week 47 ending 20 November 2020 in 
England and Wales through an analysis of excess mortality.
METHODS: We estimated age and sex-specific excess mortality risk and deaths 
above a baseline adjusted for seasonality with a systematic comparison of four 
different models using data from the Office for National Statistics. We 
additionally provide estimates of life expectancy at birth and lifespan 
inequality defined as the SD in age at death.
RESULTS: There have been 57 419 (95% prediction interval: 54 197, 60 752) excess 
deaths in the first 47 weeks of 2020, 55% of which occurred in men. Excess 
deaths increased sharply with age and men experienced elevated risks of death in 
all age groups. Life expectancy at birth dropped 0.9 and 1.2 years for women and 
men relative to the 2019 levels, respectively. Lifespan inequality also fell 
over the same period by 5 months for both sexes.
CONCLUSION: Quantifying excess deaths and their impact on life expectancy at 
birth provide a more comprehensive picture of the burden of COVID-19 on 
mortality. Whether mortality will return to-or even fall below-the baseline 
level remains to be seen as the pandemic continues to unfold and diverse 
interventions are put in place.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2020-215505
PMCID: PMC7818788
PMID: 33468602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


609. Clin Interv Aging. 2021 Jan 11;16:83-96. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S283177.
eCollection  2021.

Changes in Menopausal Risk Factors in Early Postmenopausal Osteopenic Women 
After 13 Months of High-Intensity Exercise: The Randomized Controlled 
ACTLIFE-RCT.

Hettchen M(1), von Stengel S(1), Kohl M(2), Murphy MH(3), Shojaa M(1), 
Ghasemikaram M(1), Bragonzoni L(4), Benvenuti F(4), Ripamonti C(5), Benedetti 
MG(6), Julin M(7), Risto T(7), Kemmler W(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Physics, Friedrich-Alexander University 
Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany.
(2)Department of Medical and Life Sciences, University of Furtwangen, 
Schwenningen, Germany.
(3)Doctoral College, Ulster University, Newtownabbey, Antrim, Northern Ireland, 
UK.
(4)University of Bologna, Campus Rimini, Rimini, Italy.
(5)Center for Osteoporosis and Bone Metabolic Disease, Rizzoli Orthopaedic 
Institute, Bologna, Italy.
(6)Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Unit, IRCCS - Rizzoli Orthopaedic 
Institute, Bologna, Italy.
(7)Laurea University of Applied Sciences, Espoo, Finland.

The menopausal transition is a critical period in women's lives. Exercise might 
be the most promising non-pharmaceutic intervention to address the large variety 
of risk factors related to the pronounced estradiol decline during peri- and 
early-postmenopause. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of an 
18-month multipurpose exercise program on risk factors and symptoms related to 
the menopausal transition. Fifty-four women 1-5 years postmenopause with 
osteopenia or osteoporosis were randomly assigned 1) to a high impact 
weight-bearing/high-intensity/velocity resistance training group (EG: n=27) 
exercising three times a week or 2) to an attendance control group (CG: n=27) 
that performed low-intensity exercise once a week. Both groups were supplemented 
with cholecalciferol and calcium. The primary study endpoint was bone mineral 
density (BMD) at lumbar spine (LS) and total hip, secondary outcomes were lean 
body mass (LBM), total and abdominal body percentage, metabolic syndrome Z-Score 
(MetS-Z), menopausal symptoms and muscle strength and power. Due to COVID-19, 
the study was stopped after 13 months. We observed significant effects for 
BMD-LS (EG: 0.002±.018 versus CG: -.009±0.018 mg/cm2, p=0.027) but not for BMD 
total hip (EG: -0.01±.016 versus CG: -.009±0.020 mg/cm2, p=0.129). LBM improved 
significantly in the EG and decreased in the CG (0.39±1.08 vs -0.37±1.34 kg, 
p=0.026). Total and abdominal body fat improved significantly in the EG and was 
maintained in the CG (-1.44±1.49 vs -0.02±1.55 kg, p=0.002 and -1.50±2.33 vs 
0.08±2.07 kg, p=0.011). Significant effects in favor of the EG were also 
determined for menopausal symptoms (p=0.029), hip/leg extension strength 
(p<0.001) and power (p<0.001). However, changes of the MetS-Z did not differ 
significantly (p=0.149) between EG and CG. In summary, with minor exceptions, we 
demonstrated the effectiveness of a multipurpose exercise protocol dedicated to 
early-postmenopausal women on various risk factors and complaints related to the 
menopausal transition.

© 2021 Hettchen et al.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S283177
PMCID: PMC7810823
PMID: 33469276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


610. Bioimpacts. 2021;11(1):5-14. doi: 10.34172/bi.2021.02. Epub 2019 Dec 20.

Impact of RAS/RAF mutations on clinical and prognostic outcomes in metastatic 
colorectal cancer.

Dolatkhah R(1), Dastgiri S(2), Eftekhar Sadat AT(3), Farassati F(4), Nezamdoust 
M(5), Somi MH(3).

Author information:
(1)Hematology and Oncology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Tabriz Health Services Management Research Center, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(3)Liver and Gastrointestinal Diseases Research Center, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(4)Midwest Biomedical Research Foundation, Kansas City, MO, USA.
(5)Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.

Introduction: Early-activated RAS/RAF mutation status is a key molecular finding 
in colorectal cancer (CRC), while these mutations have been proposed as 
predictive and prognostic biomarkers. The present study has been designed as a 
longitudinal study to evaluate and summarize the different genotypes of 
metastatic CRC (mCRC), and assessing any association with the disease prognosis 
and clinicopathological characteristics. This study was performed in two main 
referral hospitals of Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, over three years 
(2016-2018). Methods: Mutations were detected by Idylla tests of KRAS/NRAS/BRAF 
among a total of 173 mCRCs, using surgically-resected specimens or biopsied 
samples. To evaluate the factors associated with overall survival (OS) and 
prognosis, the Cox proportional hazards model was used in two steps to estimate 
the outcome measures (hazard ratio, or HR) with a 95% confidence interval (CI). 
Results: The nominal 1 to 5-year OS rates were 78%, 65%, 55%, 46%, and 42%, 
respectively. KRAS mutations in codon 12 was an independent significant 
prognostic factor, as the patients with codon 12 mutations had a significantly 
lower OS (P Log-rank=0.049) and a higher hazard of mortality (HR=2.30; 95% CI: 
0.95-5.58; P =0.066). Also, the mCRC patients with liver metastasis (HR=2.49; 
95% CI: 1.49-12.52; P =0.002) and tumors of the distal colon (HR=3.36; 95% CI: 
1.07-10.49; P =0.037) had a significantly worse prognosis. Conclusion: KRAS 
mutation in codon 12 was an independent significant poor prognostic factor, and 
patients with liver metastasis had a significantly worse prognosis. Routinely 
performing specific oncogenic tests may help improve the patients' prognosis and 
life expectancy.

© 2021 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.34172/bi.2021.02
PMCID: PMC7803924
PMID: 33469503

