199. Compr Rev Food Sci Food Saf. 2019 Sep;18(5):1312-1326. doi: 
10.1111/1541-4337.12474.

Cold Plasma-Mediated Treatments for Shelf Life Extension of Fresh Produce: A 
Review of Recent Research Developments.

Pan Y(1)(2)(3), Cheng JH(1)(2)(3), Sun DW(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Food Science and Engineering, South China Univ. of Technology, 
Guangzhou, 510006, China.
(2)Academy of Contemporary Food Engineering, South China University of 
Technology, Guangzhou Higher Education Mega Center, Guangzhou, 510006, China.
(3)Engineering and Technological Research Centre of Guangdong Province on 
Intelligent Sensing and Process Control of Cold Chain Foods, Guangzhou Higher 
Education Mega Centre, Guangzhou, 510006, China.
(4)Food Refrigeration and Computerized Food Technology (FRCFT), Agriculture and 
Food Science Centre, University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.

Fresh produce, like fruits and vegetables, are important sources of nutrients 
and health-promoting compounds. However, incidences of foodborne outbreaks 
associated with fresh produce often occur; it is thus important to develop and 
expand decay-control technologies that can not only maintain the quality but can 
also control the biological hazards in postharvest, processing, and storage to 
extend their shelf life. It is under such a situation that plasma-mediated 
treatments have been developed as a novel nonthermal processing tool, offering 
many advantages and attracting much interest from researchers and the food 
industry. This review summarizes recent developments of cold plasma technology 
and associated activated water for shelf life extension of fresh produce. An 
overview of plasma generation and its physical-chemical properties as well as 
methods for improving plasma efficiency are first presented. Details of using 
the technology as a nonthermal agent in inhibiting spoilage and pathogenic 
microorganisms, inactivating enzymes, and modifying the barrier properties or 
imparting specific functionalities of packaging materials to extend shelf life 
of food produce are then reviewed, and the effects of cold plasma-mediated 
treatment on microstructure and quality attributes of fresh produce are 
discussed. Future prospects and research gaps of cold plasma are finally 
elucidated. The review shows that atmospheric plasma-mediated treatments in 
various gas mixtures can significantly inhibit microorganisms, inactive enzyme, 
and modify packaging materials, leading to shelf life extension of fresh 
produce. The quality attributes of treated produce are not compromised but 
improved. Therefore, plasma-mediated treatment has great potential and values 
for its application in the food industry.

© 2019 Institute of Food Technologists®.

DOI: 10.1111/1541-4337.12474
PMID: 33336905


200. Compr Rev Food Sci Food Saf. 2019 Jan;18(1):106-120. doi: 
10.1111/1541-4337.12398. Epub 2018 Oct 18.

Cold Plasma for Effective Fungal and Mycotoxin Control in Foods: Mechanisms, 
Inactivation Effects, and Applications.

Misra NN(1), Yadav B(2), Roopesh MS(2), Jo C(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Crops Utilization Research, Iowa State Univ., Ames, IA, USA.
(2)Dept. of Agricultural, Food & Nutritional Science, Univ. of Alberta, Canada.
(3)Dept. of Agricultural Biotechnology, Center for Food & Bioconvergence, 
Research Inst. of Agriculture & Life Science, Seoul National Univ., Seoul, 
08826, South Korea.
(4)Inst. of Green Bio Science and Technology, Seoul National Univ., Pyeongchang, 
25354, South Korea.

Cold plasma treatment is a promising intervention in food processing to boost 
product safety and extend the shelf-life. The activated chemical species of cold 
plasma can act rapidly against micro-organisms at ambient temperatures without 
leaving any known chemical residues. This review presents an overview of the 
action of cold plasma against molds and mycotoxins, the underlying mechanisms, 
and applications for ensuring food safety and quality. The cold plasma species 
act on multiple sites of a fungal cell resulting in loss of function and 
structure, and ultimately cell death. Likewise, the species cause chemical 
breakdown of mycotoxins through various pathways resulting in degradation 
products that are known to be less toxic. We argue that the preliminary reports 
from cold plasma research point at good potential of plasma for shelf-life 
extension and quality retention of foods. Some of the notable food sectors which 
could benefit from antimycotic and antimycotoxin efficacy of cold plasma 
include, the fresh produce, food grains, nuts, spices, herbs, dried meat and 
fish industries.

© 2018 Institute of Food Technologists®.

DOI: 10.1111/1541-4337.12398
PMID: 33337013


201. Eur Heart J Qual Care Clin Outcomes. 2022 Mar 2;8(2):177-186. doi: 
10.1093/ehjqcco/qcaa092.

The cost-effectiveness of one-time opportunistic screening for atrial 
fibrillation in different age cohorts of inhabitants in Denmark aged 65 years 
and above: a Markov modelled analysis.

Sciera LK(1), Frost L(2)(3), Dybro L(4), Poulsen PB(1).

Author information:
(1)Pfizer Denmark, Health & Value, Lautrupvang 8, DK-2750 Ballerup, Denmark.
(2)Department of Cardiology, University Research Clinic for Innovative Patient 
Pathways, Regional Hospital of Silkeborg, Falkevej 1A, DK-8600 Silkeborg, 
Denmark.
(3)Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital, Palle 
Juul-Jensens Boulevard 82, DK-8200 Aarhus N, Denmark.
(4)Pfizer Denmark, Internal Medicine, Lautrupvang 8, DK-2750 Ballerup, Denmark.

AIMS: The objective was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of one-time 
opportunistic screening for atrial fibrillation (AF) in general practice in 
citizens aged ≥65 years in Denmark compared to a no-screening alternative 
following current Danish practice.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A decision tree and a Markov model were designed to 
simulate costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) in a hypothetical cohort 
of citizens aged ≥65 years equivalent to the Danish population (1 M citizens) 
over the course of 19 years, using a healthcare and societal perspective. Share 
of detected AF patients following opportunistic screening was retrieved from a 
recent Danish screening study, whereas the risk stroke and bleedings in AF 
patients were based on population data from national registries and their 
associated costs was obtained from published national registry studies. The 
present study showed that one-time opportunistic screening for AF was more 
costly, but also more effective compared to a no-screening alternative. The 
analysis predicts that one-time opportunistic screening of all Danes aged 
≥65 years potentially can identify an additional 10 300 AF patients and prevent 
856 strokes in the period considered. The incremental cost of such a screening 
programme is €56.4 M, with a total gain of 6000 QALYs, resulting in an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of €9400 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: Opportunistic screening in general practice in citizens aged 
≥65 years in Denmark is cost-effective compared to a willingness-to-pay 
threshold of €22 000. The study and its findings support a potential 
implementation of opportunistic screening for AF at the general practitioner 
level in Denmark.

Published on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. 
© The Author(s) 2020. For permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ehjqcco/qcaa092
PMID: 33337469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Disabil Rehabil Assist Technol. 2023 Jan;18(1):97-108. doi: 
10.1080/17483107.2020.1839574. Epub 2020 Dec 18.

Design and development of a self-propelled indoor wheelchair with direct toilet 
accessibility.

Akhil JP(1), Ajith RR(2), Ranjith SK(2).

Author information:
(1)CET - Centre for Interdisciplinary Research, College of Engineering, 
Trivandrum, Kerala, India.
(2)Micro/Nanofluidics Research Laboratory, Department of Mechanical Engineering, 
College of Engineering, Trivandrum, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, India.

PURPOSE: Existing wheelchair (WC) designs lack independent toilet accessibility, 
transferability and indoor manoeuvrability combined in a WC. In this regard, a 
new WC model is proposed to simultaneously accommodate these distinct and 
essential features. In this open-source hardware project, the design, analysis 
and fabrication of a new active commode WC for indoor applications are 
performed.
MATERIALS AND METHOD: A field survey is conducted to identify the requirements 
of users so as to choose specific features and design constraints for the WC. In 
this multipurpose self-propelled model, a temporarily detachable circular 
section is fitted in the seat position to access the water closet bowl. This 
hinged portion can be released by gravity before reaching above the closet 
basin. After the toilet usage, the circular lid can be brought back to the 
initial seating using a lever mechanism and a spring-loaded lock restrains its 
downward movement. Thereafter, it can be used as an ordinary WC for indoor 
applications. Moreover, a small wheel with 22 in diameter and removable 
hand-rests ensured the transferability between utilities. A CAD model is 
prepared and numerical simulation is performed to verify the structural 
stability of the design.
RESULTS: The optimized model is fabricated using standard manufacturing 
practices and is delivered to different persons with disabilities to collect 
user feedback. A systematic skill test is conducted to validate the compliance 
of the prototype with the user requirements including transferability and 
independent restroom access.
CONCLUSION: The opinions from most of the users are positive which categorically 
indicated that the proposed design addresses the multipurpose mobility 
requirements at indoors.Implications for rehabilitationThe expected outcomes and 
implications of the current commode WC project with regard to rehabilitation 
purpose are enlisted below:In the present scenario, a WC user is heavily 
dependent on external assistance to access private spaces in general and toilets 
in particular. The introduced model is capable to address this shortcoming by 
enabling the user to access the toilet utility directly by self 
propelling.Indeed, for a person with locomotor disability, a WC is the natural 
extension of his physical body. Thereby, this multipurpose commode WC design 
offers much Independence and greater flexibility to the indoor movements.The 
proposed design instils confidence to a WC user to access and transfer between 
facilities by means of self effort. Consequently it is expected to improve the 
quality of one's personal life significantly.Importantly, this is an open-source 
project, those who are interested in rehabilitation motives can modify the 
present design to suit their local requirements especially in resource-limited 
settings.

DOI: 10.1080/17483107.2020.1839574
PMID: 33337923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Eur J Public Health. 2021 Apr 24;31(2):409-417. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckaa235.

Mixed evidence for the compression of morbidity hypothesis for smoking 
elimination-a systematic literature review.

Dieteren CM(1), Faber T(2), van Exel J(1), Brouwer WBF(1), Mackenbach JP(2), 
Nusselder WJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Erasmus School 
of Health Policy & Management, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: There is debate around the composition of life years gained from 
smoking elimination. The aim of this study was to conduct a systematic review of 
the literature to synthesize existing evidence on the effect of smoking status 
on health expectancy and to examine whether smoking elimination leads to 
compression of morbidity.
METHODS: Five databases were systematically searched for peer-reviewed articles. 
Studies that presented quantitative estimates of health expectancy for smokers 
and non-/never-smokers were eligible for inclusion. Studies were searched, 
selected and reviewed by two reviewers who extracted the relevant data and 
assessed the risk of bias of the included articles independently.
RESULTS: The search identified 2491 unique records, whereof 20 articles were 
eligible for inclusion (including 26 cohorts). The indicators used to measure 
health included disability/activity limitations (n=9), health-related quality of 
life (EQ-5D) (n=2), weighted disabilities (n=1), self-rated health (n=9), 
chronic diseases (n=6), cardiovascular diseases (n=4) and cognitive impairment 
(n=1). Available evidence showed consistently that non-/never-smokers experience 
more healthy life years throughout their lives than smokers. Findings were 
inconsistent on the effect of smoking on the absolute number of unhealthy life 
years. Findings concerning the time proportionally spent unhealthy were less 
heterogeneous: nearly all included articles reported that non-/never-smokers 
experience relatively less unhealthy life years (e.g. relative compression of 
morbidity).
CONCLUSIONS: Support for the relative compression of morbidity due to smoking 
elimination was evident. Further research is needed into the absolute 
compression of morbidity hypothesis since current evidence is mixed, and 
methodology of studies needs to be harmonized.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Public Health Association.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckaa235
PMCID: PMC8071592
PMID: 33338205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Adicciones. 2022 Jul 1;34(3):218-226. doi: 10.20882/adicciones.1481.

The Multi-Component Smoking Cessation Support Programme (McSCSP) is effective in 
patients with severe mental disorder without gender differences.

[Article in English, Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Jaén-Moreno MJ(1), García-Portilla MP, Sarramea F, Bobes Bascarán T, Galván G, 
Díaz-Mesa EM, Al-Halabi S, Elizagarate E, Sáiz Martínez PA, Bobes J, 
García-Álvarez L.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Maimónides de Investigación Biomédica de Córdoba (IMIBIC), Córdoba. 
Departamento de Ciencias Sociosanitarias, Radiología y Medicina Física, 
Universidad de Córdoba, Córdoba, España. h22jamom@uco.es.

High prevalence of smoking in people with severe mental disorders (SMD) 
contributes to their medical morbidity and reduced life expectancy. Despite the 
evidence of gender differences in smoking cessation, few studies have tested 
those differences among people with SMD. This is a non-randomized, open-label, 
prospective, 9-month follow-up multicentre trial to examine gender differences 
in the efficacy, safety and tolerability of a Multi-Component Smoking Cessation 
Support Programme (McSCSP). The results showed that there were no significant 
differences in short- (males 44.9% vs females 57.7%, chi-square = 1.112, p = 
0.292) or long-term efficacy (week 24: males 40.8%, females 42.3%, chi-square = 
0.016, p = 0.901; week 36: males 36.7%, females 38.5%, chi-square = 0.022, p = 
0.883) between gender, neither controlled by diagnosis or treatment. Regarding 
safety and tolerability, there was significant increase in abdominal perimeter 
in males [from 105.98 (SD 13.28) to 108.52 (SD 14.01), t = -3.436, p = 0.002)], 
but not in females. However, there were no significant gender differences in 
adverse events (constipation, abnormal/vivid dreams, nausea/vomiting or skin 
rash/redness around patch site). In conclusion, we have demonstrated that is 
effective and safe to help either male or female patients with stabilized SMD to 
quit smoking. However, it might be a tendency in females to respond better to 
varenicline treatment in the short-term. Future research with larger samples is 
required to more clearly determine whether or not the there are differences, in 
addition to their reliability and robustness.

Publisher: La elevada prevalencia del tabaquismo en personas con trastorno 
mental grave (TMG) contribuye a su morbilidad médica y reduce su esperanza de 
vida. A pesar de la existencia de diferencias de género en el cese del 
tabaquismo, pocos estudios han evaluado esas diferencias en personas con TMG. 
Este es un ensayo multicéntrico de seguimiento prospectivo, no aleatorizado, 
abierto de 9 meses para examinar las diferencias de género en la eficacia, 
seguridad y tolerabilidad de un programa multicomponente de apoyo para el cese 
del tabaquismo (McSCSP). Los resultados mostraron que no hubo diferencias de 
género significativas en la eficacia a corto (hombres 44,9% vs mujeres 57,7%, 
chi cuadrado = 1,112, p = ,292) ni a largo plazo (semana 24: hombres 40,8%, 
mujeres 42,0.3%, chi cuadrado = 0.016, p = ,901; semana 36: hombres 36,7%, 
mujeres 38,5%, chi cuadrado = 0,022, p = ,883), incluso controlando por 
diagnóstico o tratamiento.  Con respecto a la seguridad y la tolerabilidad, hubo 
un aumento significativo en el perímetro abdominal en los hombres [de 105,98 (DT 
13,28) a 108,52 (DT 14,01), t = -3,436, p = ,002)], pero no en las mujeres. Sin 
embargo, no hubo diferencias de género significativas en los eventos adversos 
(estreñimiento, sueños anormales/vívidos, náuseas/vómitos o erupción 
cutánea/enrojecimiento alrededor de la zona del parche). En conclusión, hemos 
demostrado que es efectivo y seguro ayudar a los hombres y mujeres con TMG 
estabilizados a dejar de fumar.  Sin embargo, podría haber una tendencia en las 
mujeres a responder mejor al tratamiento con vareniclina a corto plazo. Se 
requiere investigación futura con muestras más amplias para determinar con más 
claridad la existencia de diferencias, además de la fiabilidad y robustez.

DOI: 10.20882/adicciones.1481
PMID: 33338247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2020
Nov;28(6):1275-1280.  doi: 10.32687/0869-866X-2020-28-6-1275-1280.

[The Self-Preserving Behavior of Citizen of The Russian Federation: Health 
Assessment and Possibilities of Longevity].

[Article in Russian]

Rostovskaya TG(1), Shabunova AA(2), Knyazkova EA(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)The Institute of Social and Political Studies of the Federal Sociological 
Research Center of The Russian Academy of Sciences, 119333, Moscow, Russia, 
rostovskaya.tamara@mail.ru.
(2)The Vologda Research Center of The Russian Academy of Sciences, 160014, 
Vologda, Russia.
(3)The Institute of Social and Political Studies of the Federal Sociological 
Research Center of The Russian Academy of Sciences, 119333, Moscow, Russia.
(4)The Russian State Humanitarian Institute, 125993, Moscow, Russia.

The self-preserving behavior, as well as matrimonial, reproductive and migratory 
behavior, is component of demographic behavior and is characterized by 
complexity of evaluating and interpretating data obtained. The statistics 
provide no information about effectiveness of disease-oriented measures that 
affect longer healthy life expectancy and measures improving accessibility and 
quality of care that affect life expectancy and quality of patients with chronic 
diseases and the disabled. This information was derived from the results of 
sociological survey «The Demographic Well-being of Russia» implemented by the 
Institute of Social and Political Studies of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 
2020-2021. This article is devoted to the results of this study in terms of 
assessment by Russians their own health status and possibility of longevity.

DOI: 10.32687/0869-866X-2020-28-6-1275-1280
PMID: 33338338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2020
Nov;28(6):1374-1379.  doi: 10.32687/0869-866X-2020-28-6-1374-1379.

[The experience of reforming primary health care in conditions of increasing of 
population average age].

[Article in Russian]

Nikolaeva IV(1), Zhernakova NI(2), Osmanov EA(3), Lebedev TJ(4), Manjakov RR(3).

Author information:
(1)The Department of Health Care and Social Care of Population of the Belgorod 
Oblast, 308005, Belgorod, Russia.
(2)The Federal State Autonomous Educational Institution of Higher Education "The 
Belgorod State National Research University", 308015, Belgorod, Russia, 
zhernakova@bsu.edu.ru.
(3)The Federal State Budget Educational Institution of Higher Education "The G. 
R. Derjavin Tambov State University" 392000, Tambov, Russia.
(4)The Federal State Autonomous Educational Institution of Higher Education "The 
Belgorod State National Research University", 308015, Belgorod, Russia.

The article presents the experience of reforming primary health care in Belgorod 
Oblast in 2016-2019. In the process of reforming, the original organizational 
model of new interaction pattern "family doctor - patient - family members", was 
developed and implemented. The measures were taken to strengthen 
material-technical base and manpower potential of primary medical care. The 
general practitioners offices were positioned within "step accessibility" for 
patients. The continuous training of family doctors was organized at the 
workplace. The unified regional medical information system was developed and 
implemented enabling corporate conference communications, remote consultations, 
public feedback and remote arrangement of visits of patients to physician. The 
differentiated approach to remuneration of medical personnel was implemented 
using key performance indices that permitted to increase salaries and work 
quality. As a result of the reforms, the percentage of patients under 
supervision of family doctors increased up to 13%, the number of medical 
emergency calls decreased up to 3.3% and the number of calls because of illness 
decreased up to 17%. The mortality of population older than able-bodied age 
began to decrease and life expectancy reached relevant 74 years in 2019.

DOI: 10.32687/0869-866X-2020-28-6-1374-1379
PMID: 33338355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Sci Total Environ. 2021 Mar 15;760:144325. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.144325.  Epub 2020 Dec 10.

The impact of non-pharmaceutical interventions, demographic, social, and 
climatic factors on the initial growth rate of COVID-19: A cross-country study.

Duhon J(1), Bragazzi N(2), Kong JD(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Disease Modeling, York University, Toronto, ON M3J 1P3, Canada; 
Department of Biomedical Sciences, York University, Toronto, ON M3J 1P3, Canada.
(2)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, York University, Toronto, ON M3J 
1P3, Canada; Laboratory for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, York University, 
Toronto, ON M3J 1P3, Canada.
(3)Centre for Disease Modeling, York University, Toronto, ON M3J 1P3, Canada; 
Department of Mathematics and Statistics, York University, Toronto, ON M3J 1P3, 
Canada. Electronic address: jdkong@yorku.ca.

On March 11, 2020 the World Health Organization announced that the COVID-19 
disease developed into a global pandemic. In the present paper, we aimed at 
analysing how the implementation of Non-Pharmaceutical Interventions (NPI) as 
well as climatic, social, and demographic variables affected the initial growth 
rate of COVID-19. In more detail, we aimed at identifying and assessing all the 
predictors in a whole picture of the COVID-19 outbreak and the effectiveness of 
the response of the countries to the pandemic. It can be expected, indeed, that 
there is a subtle and complex interplay among the various parameters. As such, 
we estimated the initial growth rate of COVID-19 for countries across the globe, 
and used a multiple linear regression model to study the association between the 
initial growth rate and NPI as well as pre-existing country characteristics 
(climatic, social and demographic variables measured before the current epidemic 
began). We obtained a mean initial growth rate of 0.120 (SD 0.076), in the range 
0.023-0.315. Ten (8 pre-existing country characteristics and 2 NPI) out of 29 
factors considered (21 pre-existing country characteristics and 8 NPI) were 
associated with the initial growth of COVID-19. Population in urban 
agglomerations of more than 1 million, PM2.5 air pollution mean annual exposure, 
life expectancy, hospital beds available, urban population, Global Health 
Security detection index and restrictions on international movement had the most 
significant effects on the initial growth of COVID-19. Based on available data 
and the results we obtained, NPI put in place by governments around the world 
alone may not have had a significant impact on the initial growth of COVID-19. 
Only restrictions on international movements had a relative significance with 
respect to the initial growth rate, whereas demographic, climatic, and social 
variables seemed to play a greater role in the initial growth rate of COVID-19.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.144325
PMCID: PMC7728414
PMID: 33338848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no competing financial interest.


208. Cancer Treat Res Commun. 2021;26:100283. doi: 10.1016/j.ctarc.2020.100283.
Epub  2020 Dec 11.

Post-renal transplant malignancies: Opportunities for prevention and early 
screening.

Turshudzhyan A(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Connecticut, Internal Medicine, 263 Farmington Avenue, 
Farmington, CT 06030-1235. Electronic address: turshudzhyan@uchc.edu.

GOAL OF THE REVIEW: While transplant recipients are aware of increased 
malignancy risk, there is little consensus on the preventative measures. The 
goal of this review is to bring available preventative measures to light and 
prompt more research to be done with ultimate goal of developing an 
individualized prevention plan for each patient based on risk factors and 
available screening tools.
INTRODUCTION: Transplant surgery offers patients with end-stage renal disease a 
longer life expectancy with help of immunosuppressive therapies. Nonetheless, 
life-long immunosuppression comes at a cost of post-renal transplant 
malignancies, which have become the leading cause of morbidity in this patient 
group.
DISCUSSION: Post-renal transplant cancers can develop through either de novo, by 
donor-related transmission, or recurrence of recipient's pre-transplant cancer. 
While immunosuppressive therapy is considered to be the leading cause, weakened 
immunosurveillance of neoplastic cells and inadequate immune response against 
oncogenic viruses also plays an important role. The most common cancers seen in 
renal transplant patients are skin cancers and post-transplant 
lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD). Risk factors for skin cancers have are 
ultraviolet light, human papilloma virus infection, and use of cyclosporin and 
azathioprine. Numerous viral infections have been associated with 
transplant-related malignancies post-transplant.
CONCLUSION: While lowering of immunosuppressive therapy remains the treatment of 
choice, it may lead to graft failure. Given some of the presented malignancies 
have modifiable risk factors and options for screening, clinical outcomes can be 
improved. Limiting skin exposure, dermatologic screening, and prophylactic 
retinoids can help lower the incidence rate of skin malignancy. Endoscopic 
screening for renal transplant patients can help identify gastric adenocarcinoma 
early and improve survival rates. Some of the post-transplant malignancies have 
been responsive to anti-viral treatment.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctarc.2020.100283
PMID: 33338850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. J Surg Res. 2021 Apr;260:122-128. doi: 10.1016/j.jss.2020.11.070. Epub 2020
Dec  15.

Estimating Length of Stay for Simple Gastroschisis.

Komic SR(1), Walters KC(2), Aderibigbe F(3), Srinivasa Rao ASR(4), Stansfield 
BK(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Augusta University, Augusta, Georgia.
(2)Department of Surgery, Augusta University, Augusta, Georgia.
(3)Department of Population Health Sciences, Augusta University, Augusta, 
Georgia.
(4)Laboratory for Theory and Mathematical Modeling, Department of Medicine, 
Augusta University, Augusta, Georgia; Department of Mathematics, Augusta 
University, Augusta, Georgia.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Augusta University, Augusta, Georgia. Electronic 
address: bstansfield@augusta.edu.

BACKGROUND: Length of stay (LOS) is an important measure of quality; however, 
estimating LOS for rare populations such as gastroschisis is problematic. Our 
objective was to identify explanatory variables for LOS and build a model to 
estimate LOS in neonates with simple gastroschisis.
METHODS: In 73 neonates with simple gastroschisis (47% female, 67% White), 
statistical correlations for 31 potential explanatory variables for LOS were 
evaluated using multivariate linear regression. Poisson regression was used to 
estimate LOS in predetermined subpopulations, and a life table model was 
developed to estimate LOS for simple gastroschisis.
RESULTS: Female sex (-2.4 d), "time to silo placement" (0.9 d), total parenteral 
nutrition days (0.6 d), need for any nasogastric feedings (11.4 d) and at 
discharge (-7 d), "feeding tolerance" (0.4 d), days to first postoperative stool 
(-0.3 d), and human milk exposure (-3.4 d) associated with LOS in simple 
gastroschisis. Estimated LOS for preterm neonates was longer than term infants 
(5.4 versus 4.6 wk) but similar for estimates based on sex and race. Based on 
these associations, we estimate that >50% of neonates with simple gastroschisis 
will be discharged by hospital day 35.
CONCLUSIONS: We identified several associations that explained variations in LOS 
and developed a novel model to estimate LOS in simple gastroschisis, which may 
be applied to other rare populations.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jss.2020.11.070
PMID: 33338888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. J Neurosurg Spine. 2020 Dec 18;34(3):440-448. doi:
10.3171/2020.7.SPINE20764.

Long-term quality of life and work status after high-dose spinal cord 
stimulation in patients with failed back surgery syndrome: a secondary analysis 
of real-world data.

Goudman L(1)(2)(3)(4), De Smedt A(2)(3)(5), Putman K(6)(7), Moens M(1)(2)(3)(8); 
Discover Consortium.

Author information:
(1)1Department of Neurosurgery, Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel, Jette.
(2)2Center for Neurosciences (C4N), Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Jette.
(3)3STIMULUS Consortium (reSearch and TeachIng neuroModULation Uz bruSsel), 
Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel, Brussels.
(4)4Pain in Motion International Research Group, Jette.
(5)5Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Universitair Ziekenhuis 
Brussel, Jette.
(6)6Department of Public Health (GEWE), Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB), Jette.
(7)7I-CHER, Interuniversity Center for Health Economics Research, Vrije 
Universiteit Brussel (VUB), Jette; and.
(8)8Department of Radiology, Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel, Jette, Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: In recent years, the use of high-dose spinal cord stimulation 
(HD-SCS) as a treatment option for patients with failed back surgery syndrome 
(FBSS) has drastically increased. However, to the authors' knowledge a thorough 
evaluation of health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and work status in these 
patients has not yet been performed. Moreover, it is unclear whether patients 
who are treated with HD-SCS can regain the same levels of HRQOL as the general 
population. Therefore, the aims of this study were to compare the HRQOL of 
patients who receive HD-SCS to HRQOL values in an age- and sex-adjusted 
population without FBSS and to evaluate work status in patients who are 
receiving HD-SCS.
METHODS: HRQOL, measured with the 3-level EQ-5D (EQ-5D-3L), and work status were 
evaluated in 185 FBSS patients at baseline (i.e., before SCS) and at 1, 3, and 
12 months of treatment with HD-SCS. Difference scores in utility values between 
patients and an age- and sex-adjusted normal population were calculated. 
One-sample Wilcoxon tests were used to assess the EQ-5D-3L difference scores. 
Mixed models were used to evaluate the evolution over time in EQ-5D-3L utility 
scores and EQ-5D visual analog scale (VAS) scores in patients and matched 
controls. Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were calculated using the area 
under the curve method.
RESULTS: An overall significant increase in EQ-5D-3L utility scores and EQ-5D 
VAS scores was found over time in the patient group. Wilcoxon tests indicated 
that the difference scores in utility values between patients and the normal 
population were significantly different from zero at all time points. The median 
incremental QALY after 12 months of HD-SCS was 0.228 (Q1-Q3: 0.005-0.487) in 
comparison to continued conservative treatment. At 12 months, 13.75% of patients 
resumed work.
CONCLUSIONS: HD-SCS may lead to significantly increased HRQOL at 12 months in 
patients with FBSS. Despite the increase, reaching the HRQOL level of matched 
controls was not achieved. Only a limited number of patients were able to return 
to work. This finding indicates that specialized programs to enhance return to 
work may be beneficial for patients undergoing SCS.

DOI: 10.3171/2020.7.SPINE20764
PMID: 33338990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Nutrients. 2020 Dec 16;12(12):3842. doi: 10.3390/nu12123842.

Metabolic and Nutritional Issues Associated with Spinal Muscular Atrophy.

Li YJ(1), Chen TH(2)(3), Wu YZ(2), Tseng YH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Kaohsiung Municipal United Hospital, Kaohsiung 
80455, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Emergency, Kaohsiung Medical 
University Hospital, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung 80708, Taiwan.
(3)School of Post-Baccalaureate Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical 
University, Kaohsiung 80708, Taiwan.

Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), the main genetic cause of infant death, is a 
neurodegenerative disease characterized by the selective loss of motor neurons 
in the anterior horn of the spinal cord, accompanied by muscle wasting. 
Pathomechanically, SMA is caused by low levels of the survival motor neuron 
protein (SMN) resulting from the loss of the SMN1 gene. However, emerging 
research extends the pathogenic effect of SMN deficiency beyond motor neurons. A 
variety of metabolic abnormalities, especially altered fatty acid metabolism and 
impaired glucose tolerance, has been described in isolated cases of SMA; 
therefore, the impact of SMN deficiency in metabolic abnormalities has been 
speculated. Although the life expectancy of these patients has increased due to 
novel disease-modifying therapies and standardization of care, understanding of 
the involvement of metabolism and nutrition in SMA is still limited. Optimal 
nutrition support and metabolic monitoring are essential for patients with SMA, 
and a comprehensive nutritional assessment can guide personalized nutritional 
therapy for this vulnerable population. It has recently been suggested that 
metabolomics studies before and after the onset of SMA in patients can provide 
valuable information about the direct or indirect effects of SMN deficiency on 
metabolic abnormalities. Furthermore, identifying and quantifying the specific 
metabolites in SMA patients may serve as an authentic biomarker or therapeutic 
target for SMA. Here, we review the main epidemiological and mechanistic 
findings that link metabolic changes to SMA and further discuss the principles 
of metabolomics as a novel approach to seek biomarkers and therapeutic insights 
in SMA.

DOI: 10.3390/nu12123842
PMCID: PMC7766651
PMID: 33339220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


212. Risk Anal. 2021 Apr;41(4):584-595. doi: 10.1111/risa.13666. Epub 2020 Dec
19.

A Unified Probabilistic Framework for Cancer Risk Management.

Rheinberger CM(1).

Author information:
(1)Risk Management Directorate, European Chemicals Agency, Postal address: P.O. 
Box 400, Helsinki, 00121, Finland.

Cancer risk assessments in the regulatory realm are often deterministic. 
Probabilistic approaches that allow characterizing and propagating uncertainty 
and variability are better suited to predict the socioeconomic impacts of 
regulating carcinogens. In this article, I present a unified framework for 
cancer risk management consisting of (i) a probabilistic exposure model that 
takes into account variability in individual exposure to the substance of 
concern; (ii) a probabilistic dose-response model that accounts for differences 
in individual cancer susceptibility; (iii) an impact assessment model that 
quantifies individuals' excess lifetime cancer risk; and (iv) a welfare model 
that values changes in disability-adjusted life expectancy based on workers' 
willingness-to-pay and aggregates individual valuations across the population at 
risk. I illustrate the framework with data on occupational exposure to 
hexavalent chromium in France. In a cohort of 10,000 synthetic workers, about 
one third of the exposed benefit from the introduction of a binding occupational 
exposure limit (BOEL). Limiting hexavalent chromium exposure to the BOEL reduces 
the statistical worker's excess lifetime risk of fatal and nonfatal lung cancer 
by 4.7E-3 and 1.5E-3, respectively. At cohort level, the risk reduction 
corresponds to 738.4 full and 30.7 disability-adjusted life years saved. The 
expected welfare gain of introducing the BOEL is close to €30 million. A major 
advantage of the framework is its ability to visualize uncertainty and 
variability inherent to cancer risk assessment. Notwithstanding some 
implementation challenges, the framework provides a transparent characterization 
of regulatory impacts that supports informed risk management decisions.

© 2020 Society for Risk Analysis.

DOI: 10.1111/risa.13666
PMID: 33340129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. J Vasc Surg. 2021 Jul;74(1):195-202. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2020.11.044. Epub
2020  Dec 17.

Perioperative outcomes for carotid revascularization on asymptomatic 
dialysis-dependent patients meet Society for Vascular Society guidelines.

Latz CA(1), Boitano LT(2), Wang LJ(2), DeCarlo C(2), Pendleton AA(2), Waller 
HD(2), Lee CJ(3), Dua A(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, Mass. Electronic address: christopher.latz@mgh.harvard.edu.
(2)Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, Mass.
(3)Division of Vascular Surgery, NorthShore University Health System, Evanston, 
Ill.

OBJECTIVE: The current Society for Vascular Surgery practice guidelines 
recommend carotid revascularization for asymptomatic disease in patients with at 
least a 3-year life expectancy and stenosis >60% when the expected perioperative 
stroke and death rate is <3%. Based on this recommendation, it was previously 
determined that asymptomatic patients who require dialysis would not meet the 
perioperative stroke and death thresholds nor the long-term survival benchmarks 
to justify carotid surgery. To determine whether carotid surgery for patients 
requiring dialysis is appropriate, the present study compared the perioperative 
outcomes after carotid revascularization for dialysis-dependent patients 
relative to nondialysis patients in a contemporary, national cohort.
METHODS: The targeted vascular module from the American College of Surgeons 
National Surgical Quality Improvement Program was queried to identify patients 
who undergone carotid endarterectomy or carotid artery stenting for asymptomatic 
carotid disease from 2011 to 2018. The cohort was categorized as requiring or 
not requiring dialysis. The primary 30-day outcomes included mortality and the 
composite of stroke/death and stroke/death/myocardial infarction (MI). 
Univariate analyses were performed using the Fisher exact test and Wilcoxon rank 
sum test. Multivariable analyses were used to assess the independent 
associations of the estimated glomerular filtration rate and dialysis dependence 
with the stroke/death rate.
RESULTS: A total of 17,579 patients met the inclusion criteria. Of these 
patients, 226 (1.3%) required dialysis at revascularization. No difference was 
found in the degree of severe stenosis (80%-99%) demonstrated by 69% of the 
dialysis cohort and 72% of the nondialysis cohort (P = .9). Of the dialysis and 
nondialysis cohorts, 5% and 3.6% underwent carotid artery stenting (P = .3). The 
dialysis-dependent patients were younger (68 vs 71 years; P < .001) and were 
more likely to have insulin-dependent diabetes (47% vs 12%; P < .001), 
congestive heart failure (8.4% vs 1.4%; P < .001), and severe chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (15% vs 10%; P = .03). In the dialysis and 
nondialysis cohort, 2 (0.9%) and 88 (0.5%) patients died (P = .3); 4 (1.8%) and 
247 (1.4%) experienced strokes (P = .6); and 3 (1.3%) and 185 (1.1%) patients 
experienced MI (P = .5), respectively. The composite outcomes of stroke/death 
and stroke/death/MI was 2.2% (n = 5) and 1.8% (n = 319; P = .6) and 3.5% (n = 8) 
and 2.8% (n = 479; P = .4) in the dialysis and nondialysis cohorts, 
respectively. After multivariable analysis, neither the estimated glomerular 
filtration rate (adjusted odds ratio, 1.0; 95% confidence interval, 1.00-1.01; 
P = .26) nor dialysis dependence (adjusted odds ratio, 0.21; 95% confidence 
interval, 0.03-1.57; P = .13) was independently associated with the composite 
outcome of stroke/death.
CONCLUSIONS: The 30-day carotid revascularization outcomes for asymptomatic 
disease in dialysis-dependent patients met the Society for Vascular Surgery 
guidelines in this national cohort and might be better than previously surmised. 
Hence, vascular surgeons could consider carotid revascularization for select 
dialysis-dependent patients with the appropriate expected longevity and 
perioperative risk.

Copyright © 2020 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2020.11.044
PMID: 33340696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. J Radiat Res. 2021 Mar 10;62(2):285-293. doi: 10.1093/jrr/rraa112.

A surveillance study of patterns of reirradiation practice using external beam 
radiotherapy in Japan.

Yamazaki H(1), Suzuki G(1), Aibe N(1), Nakamura S(2), Yoshida K(2), Oh R(3); 
JReRT Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Graduate School of Medical Science, Kyoto 
Prefectural University of Medicine, 465 Kajiicho Kawaramachi Hirokoji, 
Kamigyo-ku, Kyoto 602-8566 Japan.
(2)Department of Radiology, Kansai Medical University, Hirakata 573-1010, Japan.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Miyakojima IGRT Clinic.

The aim of this study was to survey the present status and patterns of 
reirradiation (Re-RT) practice using external beam radiotherapy in Japan. We 
distributed an e-mail questionnaire to the Japanese Society for Radiation 
Oncology partner institutions, which consisted of part 1 (number of Re-RT cases 
in 2008-2012 and 2013-2018) and part 2 (indications and treatment planning for 
Re-RT and eight case scenarios). Of the 85 institutions that replied to part 1, 
75 (88%) performed Re-RTs. However, 59 of these 75 institutions (79%) reported 
difficulty in obtaining Re-RT case information from their databases. The 
responses from 37 institutions included the number of Re-RT cases, which totaled 
508 in the period from 2009 to 2013 (institution median 3; 0-235), and an 
increase to 762 cases in the period from 2014 to 2018 (12.5; 0-295). A total of 
47 physicians responded to part 2 of the survey. Important indications for Re-RT 
that were considered were age, performance status, life expectancy, absence of 
distant metastases and time interval since previous radiotherapy. In addition to 
clinical decision-making factors, previous total radiation dose, volume of 
irradiated tissue and the biologically equivalent dose were considered during 
Re-RT planning. From the eight site-specific scenarios presented to the 
respondents, >60% of radiation oncologists agreed to perform Re-RT. Re-RT cases 
have increased in number, and interest in Re-RT among radiation oncologists has 
increased recently due to advances in technology. However, several problems 
exist that emphasize the need for consensus building and the establishment of 
guidelines for practice and prospective evaluation.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Japanese Radiation Research Society and Japanese Society for Radiation Oncology.

DOI: 10.1093/jrr/rraa112
PMCID: PMC7948832
PMID: 33341887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Adv Gerontol. 2020;33(4):646-656.

[Radiation-protective agent and anti-aging agents: random and predictable 
matches.].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Bykov VN(1), Grebenyuk AN(2), Ushakov IB(3).

Author information:
(1)N.N.Petrov National Medical Research Center of Oncology, 68 Leningradskaya 
str., Pesochnyi, St. Petersburg 197758, Russian Federation, e-mail: 
bykov_imm@mail.ru.
(2)I.P.Pavlov First Saint-Petersburg State Medical University, 6-8 L'va Tolstogo 
str., St. Petersburg 197022, Russian Federation.
(3)State Research Center - A.I.Burnasyan Federal Medical Biophysical Center of 
Federal Medical Biological Agency, 46 Zhivopisnaya str., Moscow 123182, Russian 
Federation.

Radiation-protective and anti-aging properties are often combined. Combination 
of this properties is linked to the common mechanisms of action such as direct 
and indirect antioxidant activities, inhibition of free radicals formation, 
increase resistance to stress impacts at the cellular level, acceleration of DNA 
reparation, prevention of chronic diseases linked to abnormalities in 
regeneration processes, activation of immune inflammatory processes and 
carcinogenesis. Regulation of cell cycle and apoptosis can often be considered 
as an implementing driver of radiation-protective and anti-aging activities. On 
the one hand, against the background of stopping the cell cycle and blockade of 
apoptosis increases the time required to repair the defects of a DNA. 
Antiapoptotic effects enhances survival chances at the early stage after 
irradiation in a particular range of doses. On the other hand, activation of 
apoptosis of altered cells can be seen as one of the mechanisms to delay aging 
processes and prevention of isolated effects of exposure to ionizing radiation. 
Formation of radiation-induced and age-related alterations are characterized by 
multiple factors and a variety of manifestations. Nevertheless, similarity of 
individual links of the pathogenesis of disease related to radiation exposure 
and aging of the body is striking. It could be stated that radiation-protective 
property defines an increase in life expectancy by short-term exposure in 
sub-lethal and lethal doses. However anti-aging activities prevent the 
development of remote effects of ionizing radiation by prolonged low doses or 
fractionated exposure to radiation.

Publisher: Радиопротекторные и геропротекторные свойства соединений нередко 
сочетаются, что может быть обусловлено общими механизмами действия: 
антиоксидантной активностью, повышением устойчивости к клеточному стрессу, 
ускорением репарации ДНК, предотвращением хронических воспалительных заболеваний 
и канцерогенеза. В данной работе приведен детальный анализ 
молекулярно-биологических механизмов действия препаратов, обладающих 
радиопротекторными и/или геропротекторными свойствами. Описаны общие звенья 
развития старения и патогенеза заболеваний, связанных с облучением, включающие 
активацию свободнорадикальных реакций, нарушение регуляции репарации ДНК, 
клеточного цикла и апоптоза. С одной стороны, на фоне остановки клеточного цикла 
и блокады апоптоза увеличивается время для репарации ДНК. С другой стороны, 
активация апоптоза измененных клеток рассматривается как один из механизмов 
замедления процессов старения и предотвращения отдаленных эффектов воздействия 
ионизирующих излучений. Выделено две основных группы радиозащитных препаратов: 
1) обладающие антиапоптозным свойством и способствующие повышению выживаемости в 
ранние сроки после после облучения в высокой дозе; 2) способствующие 
элиминированию поврежденных клеток (сенолитики) и наиболее эффективные при 
длительном низкодозовом воздействии радиации или фракционированном облучении. 
Геропротекторная активность описана для препаратов второй группы, к которым 
относятся мелатонин, метформин, рапамицин и природные полифенольные соединения.

PMID: 33342093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Plant Dis. 2021 Aug;105(8):2078-2088. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-10-20-2292-RE. Epub
2021  Sep 15.

Enterobacter asburiae and Pantoea ananatis Causing Rice Bacterial Blight in 
China.

Xue Y(1), Hu M(1), Chen S(1), Hu A(1), Li S(2), Han H(3), Lu G(4), Zeng L(5), 
Zhou J(1).

Author information:
(1)Guangdong Laboratory for Lingnan Modern Agriculture, Guangdong Province Key 
Laboratory of Microbial Signals and Disease Control, Integrative Microbiology 
Research Centre, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou 510642, China.
(2)Agricultural Technology Service Centre of Daojiao Town, Dongguan 523170, 
China.
(3)Dongguan Agricultural Technology Extension Management Office, Dongguan 
523010, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Subtropical 
Agro-bioresources, College of Life Science and Technology, Guangxi University, 
Nanning 530004, China.
(5)Dongguan Banana and Vegetable Research Institute, Dongguan 523061, China.

Rice bacterial blight is a devastating bacterial disease threatening rice yield 
all over the world and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae is traditionally believed 
to be the pathogen. In recent years, we have received diseased rice samples with 
symptoms of blighted leaves from Sichuan and Guangdong provinces, China. 
Pathogen isolation and classification identified two different enterobacteria as 
the causal agents, namely Enterobacter asburiae and Pantoea ananatis. Among 
them, E. asburiae was isolated from samples of both provinces, and P. ananatis 
was only isolated from the Sichuan samples. Different from rice foot rot 
pathogen Dickeya zeae EC1 and rice bacterial blight pathogen X. oryzae pv. 
oryzae PXO99A, strains SC1, RG1, and SC7 produced rare cell wall degrading 
enzymes (CWDEs) but more extrapolysaccharides (EPS). E. asburiae strains SC1 and 
RG1 produced bacteriostatic substances while P. ananatis strain SC7 produced 
none. Pathogenicity tests indicated that all of them infected monocotyledonous 
rice and banana seedlings, but not dicotyledonous potato, radish, or cabbage. 
Moreover, strain RG1 was most virulent, while strains SC1 and SC7 were similarly 
virulent on rice leaves, even though strain SC1 propagated significantly faster 
in rice leaf tissues than strain SC7. This study firstly discovered E. asburiae 
as a new pathogen of rice bacterial blight, and in some cases, P. ananatis could 
be a companion pathogen. Analysis on production of virulence factors suggested 
that both pathogens probably employ a different mechanism to infect hosts other 
than using cell wall degrading enzymes to break through host cell walls.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-10-20-2292-RE
PMID: 33342235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Hypertension. 2021 Feb;77(2):682-691. doi:
10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.120.14913.  Epub 2020 Dec 21.

Cost-Effectiveness of Initiating Pharmacological Treatment in Stage One 
Hypertension Based on 10-Year Cardiovascular Disease Risk: A Markov Modeling 
Study.

Constanti M(1), Floyd CN(2), Glover M(3), Boffa R(1), Wierzbicki AS(4), McManus 
RJ(5).

Author information:
(1)From the National Guideline Centre (NGC), Regent's Park, London (M.C., R.B.).
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, King's College London, St Thomas' 
Hospital Campus (C.N.F.).
(3)MRC Clinician Scientist, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Queen's 
Medical Centre, Nottingham (M.G.).
(4)Department of Metabolic Medicine/Chemical Pathology, Guy's and St Thomas' 
Hospitals, London (A.S.W.).
(5)Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences, University of Oxford 
(R.J.M.).

Antihypertensive drug treatment is cost-effective for adults at high risk of 
developing cardiovascular disease (CVD). However, the cost-effectiveness in 
people with stage 1 hypertension (140-159 mm Hg systolic blood pressure) at 
lower CVD risk remains unclear. The objective was to establish the 10-year CVD 
risk threshold where initiating antihypertensive drug treatment for primary 
prevention in adults, with stage 1 hypertension, becomes cost-effective. A 
lifetime horizon Markov model compared antihypertensive drug versus no 
treatment, using a UK National Health Service perspective. Analyses were 
conducted for groups ranging between 5% and 20% 10-year CVD risk. Health states 
included no CVD event, CVD and non-CVD death, and 6 nonfatal CVD morbidities. 
Interventions were compared using cost-per-quality-adjusted life-years. The 
base-case age was 60, with analyses repeated between ages 40 and 75. The model 
was run separately for men and women, and threshold CVD risk assessed against 
the minimum plausible risk for each group. Treatment was cost-effective at 10% 
CVD risk for both sexes (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
£10 017/quality-adjusted life-year [$14 542] men, £8635/QALY [$12 536] women) in 
the base-case. The result was robust in probabilistic and deterministic 
sensitivity analyses but was sensitive to treatment effects. Treatment was 
cost-effective for men regardless of age and women aged >60. Initiating 
treatment in stage 1 hypertension for people aged 60 is cost-effective 
regardless of 10-year CVD risk. For other age groups, it is also cost-effective 
to treat regardless of risk, except in younger women.

DOI: 10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.120.14913
PMCID: PMC7803450
PMID: 33342242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Int J STD AIDS. 2021 Feb;32(2):127-134. doi: 10.1177/0956462420952989. Epub
2020  Dec 20.

Assessing antiretroviral therapy success in HIV/AIDS morbidity and mortality 
trends in Brazil, 1990-2017: an interrupted time series study.

de Sousa ACL(1), Eleuterio TA(2)(3), Coutinho JVA(4), Guimarães RM(5).

Author information:
(1)Anonymous HIV Testing Center, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil.
(2)Department of Public Health Nursing, Rio de Janeiro State University, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil.
(3)Epidemiology Center, Hospital dos Servidores do Estado, Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil.
(4)Medicine School, Estácio de Sá University, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(5)Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, Ministry of Health, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

To describe the trends of HIV/AIDS metrics related to the burden of disease for 
Brazil between 1990 and 2017 we conducted a timeseries analysis for HIV/AIDS 
indicators by extracting data from the Global Burden of Disease study. We 
calculated traditional prevalence, incidence and mortality rates, the number of 
years lost by HIV-related deaths (YLL) and disability (YLD), and 
disability-adjusted life years (DALY). We estimated time series models and 
assessed the impact of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) on the same 
indicators. In the set of disability-adjusted life years (DALY), the highest 
weight of its magnitude was due to YLL. There was a decline, especially after 
1996, of DALY, mortality and YLL for HIV/AIDS. However, YLD, incidence, and 
prevalence increased over the same period. Also, the analysis of interrupted 
time series showed that the introduction of HAART into health policy had a 
significant impact on indicators, especially for DALY and YLL. We need to assess 
the quality of life of people living with HIV, especially among older adults. In 
addition, we need to focus on primary prevention, emphasizing methods to avoid 
infection and public policies should reflect this.

