Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Organs that develop early in life, and are replaced by a larger 
version as the animal grows, often represent a miniature version of the adult 
organ. Teeth constituting the first functional dentition in small-sized teleost 
fish, such as medaka (Oryzias latipes), are examples of such miniature organs. 
With a dentin cone as small as the size of one human cell, or even smaller, 
these teeth raise the question how many dentin-producing cells (odontoblasts) 
are required to build such a tooth, and whether this number can be as little as 
one.
RESULTS: Based on detailed observations with transmission electron microscopy 
(TEM) and TEM-based 3D-reconstructions, we show that only one mesenchymal cell 
qualifies as a true odontoblast. A second mesenchymal cell potentially 
participates in dentin formation, but only at a late stage of tooth development. 
Moreover, the fate of these cells appears to be specified very early during 
tooth development.
CONCLUSIONS: Our observations indicate that in this system, one single 
odontoblast fulfills roles normally exerted by a large and communicating cell 
population. First-generation teeth in medaka thus provide an exciting model to 
study integration of multiple functions into a single cell.

© 2021 American Association of Anatomists.

DOI: 10.1002/dvdy.300
PMID: 33452709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Indian Pediatr. 2021 Jan 15;58(1):11-12. doi: 10.1007/s13312-021-2349-5.

(If) Tribal Children's Lives Matter, Measure Them!

Bang A(1).

Author information:
(1)Director, Society for Education, Action and Research in Community Health 
(SEARCH)Shodhgram, Chatgaon, Dhanora, Gadchiroli, Maharashtra 442605, India. 
search.gad@gmail.com.

Comment on
    Indian Pediatr. 2021 Jan 15;58(1):20-24.

To develop to their full potential, all children need to receive nurturing care. 
This means that, starting in pregnancy, they are raised in a stable environment 
that is sensitive to their health and nutritional needs, with protection from 
threats, opportunities for early learning, and interactions that are responsive, 
emotionally supportive, and developmentally stimulating. Nurturing care ensures 
the foundations are laid early in life for an individual to survive and thrive. 
Yet, at least 250 million children younger than 5 years worldwide are at risk of 
not reaching their developmental potential, having major implications for their 
health, education, productivity and well-being along the life course. Primary 
health care services provide a platform for universal support to all families 
and children, and an entry point for early identification and interventions for 
families and children with additional needs. Healthcare providers, including 
pediatricians, are uniquely well placed to watch and learn about the strengths 
and vulnerabilities of a family and a child, open the dialogue about the child’s 
development, and support caregivers in providing their children nurturing care. 
Evidence shows that when caregivers are supported to provide all components of 
nurturing care, starting from pregnancy, children have a better chance to unlock 
their developmental potential, even when faced with adversities. This paper 
outlines how the Nurturing Care Framework and its five strategic actions guide 
multi-sectoral policies, interventions and services. It articulates the 
important role the health sector can play in supporting young children’s 
development in the early years.

DOI: 10.1007/s13312-021-2349-5
PMCID: PMC8606277
PMID: 33452770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None stated.


570. Indian Pediatr. 2021 Jan 15;58(1):96-97. doi: 10.1007/s13312-021-2120-y.

Variation in Tribe-Specific Mortality Indicators of Child Health in India: 
Emphasizing Tribe-Specific Action Plan.

Deepani V(1), Sahu D(2).

Author information:
(1)ICMR-National Institute of Medical Statistics, New Delhi, India.
(2)ICMR-National Institute of Medical Statistics, New Delhi, India. 
sahuicmr@gmail.com.

Comment on
    Indian Pediatr. 2021 Jan 15;58(1):20-24.

DOI: 10.1007/s13312-021-2120-y
PMCID: PMC7840381
PMID: 33452798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Int J Biol Macromol. 2021 Mar 1;172:231-240. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2021.01.056. Epub 2021 Jan 13.

Chitosan-riboflavin composite film based on photodynamic inactivation technology 
for antibacterial food packaging.

Su L(1), Huang J(1), Li H(1), Pan Y(2), Zhu B(3), Zhao Y(4), Liu H(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Food Science and Technology, Shanghai Ocean University, Shanghai 
201306, China.
(2)College of Food Science and Technology, Shanghai Ocean University, Shanghai 
201306, China; Shanghai Engineering Research Center of Aquatic-Product 
Processing & Preservation, Shanghai 201306, China; Laboratory of Quality & 
Safety Risk Assessment for Aquatic Products on Storage and Preservation 
(Shanghai), Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Shanghai 201306, China.
(3)Collaborative Innovation Center of Seafood Deep Processing, Dalian 
Polytechnic University, Dalian 116034, China.
(4)College of Food Science and Technology, Shanghai Ocean University, Shanghai 
201306, China; Shanghai Engineering Research Center of Aquatic-Product 
Processing & Preservation, Shanghai 201306, China; Laboratory of Quality & 
Safety Risk Assessment for Aquatic Products on Storage and Preservation 
(Shanghai), Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Shanghai 201306, China. 
Electronic address: yzhao@shou.edu.cn.
(5)College of Food Science and Technology, Shanghai Ocean University, Shanghai 
201306, China; Shanghai Engineering Research Center of Aquatic-Product 
Processing & Preservation, Shanghai 201306, China; Laboratory of Quality & 
Safety Risk Assessment for Aquatic Products on Storage and Preservation 
(Shanghai), Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Shanghai 201306, China; 
Engineering Research Center of Food Thermal-processing Technology, Shanghai 
Ocean University, Shanghai 201306, China. Electronic address: hqliu@shou.edu.cn.

Photodynamic inactivation (PDI) is a novel sterilization technology that has 
proven effective in medicine. This study focused on applying PDI to food 
packaging, where chitosan (CS) films containing photosensitizing riboflavin (RB) 
were prepared via solution casting. The CS-RB composite films exhibited good 
ultraviolet (UV)-barrier properties, and had a visually appealing highly 
transparent yellow appearance. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) confirmed even 
dispersion of RB throughout the CS film. The addition of RB led to improved film 
characteristics, including the thickness, mechanical properties, solubility, and 
water barrier properties. The CS-RB5 composite films produced sufficient singlet 
oxygen under blue LED irradiation for 2 h to inactivate two food-borne pathogens 
(Listeria monocytogenes and Vibrio parahaemolyticus) and one spoilage bacteria 
(Shewanella baltica). The CS-RB composite films were assessed as a salmon 
packaging material, where inhibition of bacterial growth was observed. The film 
is biodegradable, and has the potential to alleviate the issues associated with 
the excessive use of petrochemical materials, such as environmental pollution 
and limited resources. The CS-RB composite films showed potential as a novel 
environmentally friendly packaging material for shelf-life extension of 
refrigerated food products.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2021.01.056
PMID: 33453253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Biosystems. 2021 Apr;202:104353. doi: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2021.104353. Epub
 2021 Jan 13.

Serial Endosymbiosis Theory: From biology to astronomy and back to the origin of 
life.

Slijepcevic P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, College of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences, 
Brunel University London, Uxbridge, UB8 3PH, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
predrag.slijepcevic@brunel.ac.uk.

Serial Endosymbiosis Theory, or SET, was conceived and developed by Lynn 
Margulis, to explain the greatest discontinuity in the history of life, the 
origin of eukaryotic cells. Some predictions of SET, namely the origin of 
mitochondria and chloroplasts, withstood the test of the most recent evidence 
from a variety of disciplines including phylogenetics, biochemistry, and cell 
biology. Even though some other predictions fared less well, SET remains a 
seminal theory in biology. In this paper, I focus on two aspects of SET. First, 
using the concept of "universal symbiogenesis", developed by Freeman Dyson to 
search for commonalities in astronomy and biology, I propose that SET can be 
extended beyond eukaryogenesis. The extension refers to the possibility that 
even prokaryotic organisms, themselves subject to the process of symbiogenesis 
in SET, could have emerged symbiotically. Second, I contrast a recent "viral 
eukaryogenesis" hypothesis, according to which the nucleus evolved from a 
complex DNA virus, with a view closer to SET, according to which the nucleus 
evolved through the interplay of the archaeal host, the eubacterial symbiont, 
and a non-LTR transposon, or telomerase. Viruses joined in later, through the 
process of viral endogenization, to shape eukaryotic chromosomes in the process 
of karyotype evolution. These two proposals based on SET are a testament to its 
longevity as a scientific theory.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2021.104353
PMID: 33453317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Ann Epidemiol. 2021 Apr;56:9-17. doi: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2021.01.002. Epub
2021  Jan 13.

Psychological distress, life expectancy, and all-cause mortality in the United 
States: results from the 1997-2014 NHIS-NDI record linkage study.

Lee H(1), Singh GK(2).

Author information:
(1)Health Resources and Services Administration, Office of Health Equity, 
Rockville, MD; Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE), Oak Ridge, 
TN. Electronic address: hyunjung.lee0001@gmail.com.
(2)US Department of Health and Human Services, Health Resources and Services 
Administration Office of Health Equity, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 13N42, 
Rockville, MD.

PURPOSE: Previous research has shown a significant association between 
psychological distress (PD) and all-cause mortality. However, this association 
is not fully explored, and life expectancy by PD is unknown.
METHODS: We used the pooled 1997-2014 data from the National Health Interview 
Survey linked to National Death Index (n = 513,081) to examine the association 
of the Kessler 6-item PD scale with life expectancy and all-cause mortality. 
Life expectancy by PD was computed using the standard life table method. Cox 
regression was used to model survival time as a function of PD and 
sociodemographic, behavioral, and health characteristics.
RESULTS: The age-adjusted mortality rate for adults with serious PD (SPD) was 
2632 deaths per 100,000 person-years, compared with 1428 for those without PD. 
Life expectancy was inversely related to PD. At age 18, those with SPD had a 
life expectancy of 45.0 years, compared with 55.6 years for those without PD. 
The age-adjusted relative risk of all-cause mortality was 125% higher for adults 
with SPD (hazard ratio = 2.25; 95% confidence interval = 2.14, 2.37) than those 
without PD. Mortality risk associated with SPD remained (hazard ratio = 1.14; 
95% confidence interval = 1.08, 1.20) after covariate adjustment.
CONCLUSIONS: U.S. adults with SPD had significantly higher mortality risk and 
lower life expectancy.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2021.01.002
PMID: 33453384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. World Neurosurg. 2021 Apr;148:65. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2020.12.168. Epub 2021
Jan  13.

5-ALA Enhanced Fluorescence-Guided Microscopic to Endoscopic Resection of Deep 
Frontal Subcortical Glioblastoma Multiforme.

Strickland BA(1), Zada G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
California, USA. Electronic address: ben.strickland@med.usc.edu.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
California, USA.

Glioblastoma multiforme remains the most common adult primary brain tumor with a 
life expectancy of 15-18 months following best treatment strategies. Current 
paradigms incorporate maximal safe resection, chemotherapy, and radiation.1 
Multiple variables correlate with increased survival; perhaps most notably are 
stepwise survival advantages following 78% and 98% extent of resection 
thresholds.2,3 5-Aminolevulinic acid has become a vital tool in the 
intraoperative identification and differentiation of high-grade glioma as it 
provides a fluorescent effect capable of distinguishing tumor from normal brain 
tissue when observed under blue light, which to date has been used primarily via 
a microscopic light source.4 However, this effect is attenuated with increasing 
distance between the blue light source and the tumor, as in the case of deep 
seated resection cavities.5 We aimed to overcome this obstacle by using a blue 
light endoscope as the primary visualization platform, thereby advancing the 
light source directly into the resection cavity. We present the case of a 
69-year-old man with a deep left frontal subcortical lesion proven to be 
glioblastoma multiforme on prior biopsy. He consented to undergo an 
interhemispheric "M2E" (microscopic-to-endoscopic) approach with subcortical 
motor mapping. Tumor fluorescence under blue light visualization was not 
appreciated by the operating microscope but was easily observed with the blue 
light endoscope. Tumor resection proceeded under direct blue light endoscopy 
with intermittent subcortical motor mapping until a threshold of 4 mA was 
reached. The patient had transient right arm and leg weakness. Postoperative 
magnetic resonance imaging confirmed >98% resection (Video 1).

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2020.12.168
PMID: 33453427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Semin Cancer Biol. 2021 Jul;72:11-18. doi: 10.1016/j.semcancer.2020.10.008.
Epub  2021 Jan 14.

The impact of oral contraceptive use on breast cancer risk: State of the art and 
future perspectives in the era of 4P medicine.

Bonfiglio R(1), Di Pietro ML(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Medicine, University "Tor Vergata", Via 
Montpellier 1, Rome, 00133, Italy. Electronic address: 
rita.bonfiglio@uniroma2.it.
(2)Fondazione Policlinico Universitario A, Gemelli IRCCS, Rome, Italy; Institute 
of Public Health - Section of Hygiene, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, 
Rome, Italy.

Breast cancer is the most commonly occurring cancer in women, the second most 
frequent cancer overall, and it causes the greatest number of cancer-related 
deaths among women. The significant increased concern of breast cancer worldwide 
may be attributed to the prolonged life expectancy and the adoption of the 
western lifestyle with its related risks factors. A woman's risk for breast 
cancer is linked to her reproductive history and with her lifetime hormonal 
exposure. Among the known risk factors for breast cancer, several studies 
investigated the possible role of the assumption of hormonal "pills" in both 
breast cancer incidence and development. Nevertheless, data about the 
association between the assumption of oral contraceptives and breast cancer 
incidence are still controversial and not conclusive. Given the public health 
importance of breast cancer and the popularity of hormonal "pills" as 
contraceptive, the impact of oral contraceptive use on breast cancer risk 
assumes relevance from both a clinical and a social point of view. Therefore, in 
this review we wanted to illustrate this issue by addressing the following major 
themes: a) the role of sex steroid hormones in female breast development and 
carcinogenesis; b) the clinical impact of hormonal oral contraception according 
to the state of the art literature; c) the actual scientific debate and future 
perspectives.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semcancer.2020.10.008
PMID: 33454355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Wiad Lek. 2020;73(11):2507-2511.

THE METHOD OF FORECASTING AS AN IMPORTANT STAGE IN SOLVING THE PROBLEMS FACING 
HEALTH IN THE FIELD OF MEDICAL CARE OF THE POPULATION.

Sakhanda IV(1), Skrypnyk RL(1), Kosyachenko KL(1), Davtian LL(2), Welchinska 
OV(1), Kabachna AV(2), Kosyachenko NM(3).

Author information:
(1)BOGOMOLETS NATIONAL MEDICAL UNIVERSITY, KYIV, UKRAINE.
(2)SHUPYK NATIONAL MEDICAL ACADEMY OF POSTGRADUATE EDUCATION, KYIV, UKRAINE.
(3)ZHYTOMYR COLLEGE OF PHARMACY, ZHYTOMYR, UKRAINE.

OBJECTIVE: The aim: Of the work is to investigate and prove the effectiveness of 
medicinal products of plant origin for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Materials and methods: Pharmacoeconomic, social, medical 
demographic and statistical studies were studied. The study involved 
cardiologists, pharmacists, consumers of pharmacies and patients of cardiology 
departments.
RESULTS: Results: Forecasting the need for cardiac medicines in general, and in 
medicinal products of plant origin (MP PO), in particular, is increasing as the 
population, life expectancy, under the influence of socio-demographic factors, 
and, most importantly, the increase in the number of elderly people. When 
solving problems facing public health in the field of drug provision of the 
population, a regular analysis of the pharmaceutical market and a forecast of 
the need for medicines in the context of the pharmacotherapeutic group that is 
being studied are necessary. An important stage in the choice of forecasting 
methods is the possibility of attracting the required number of indicators, 
which is a characteristic of the normative method, whose accessibility and 
simplicity make it possible to use it by specialists who do not have special 
mathematical training at the level of medical and pharmaceutical organizations.
CONCLUSION: Conclusions: Prevention of diseases should be based on the 
implementation of government programs for prevention and promotion of health. 
This will improve and actively use methods of early detection of social and 
economic factors, which is a threat of development of diseases of the 
cardiovascular system.

PMID: 33454692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Neuroendocrinology. 2022;112(1):1-14. doi: 10.1159/000514434. Epub 2021 Jan
15.

Dynamic Tests in Pituitary Endocrinology: Pitfalls in Interpretation during 
Aging.

Caputo M(1)(2), Mele C(3), Ferrero A(3), Leone I(3), Daffara T(3), Marzullo 
P(3)(4), Prodam F(3)(5), Aimaretti G(3).

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology, Department of Translational Medicine, University of Piemonte 
Orientale (UPO), Novara, Italy, marina.caputo@uniupo.it.
(2)Department of Health Sciences, University of Piemonte Orientale (UPO), 
Novara, Italy, marina.caputo@uniupo.it.
(3)Endocrinology, Department of Translational Medicine, University of Piemonte 
Orientale (UPO), Novara, Italy.
(4)IRCCS Istituto Auxologico Italiano, Laboratory of Metabolic Research, 
Novara/Milan, Italy.
(5)Department of Health Sciences, University of Piemonte Orientale (UPO), 
Novara, Italy.

Aging and age-related diseases represent hot topics of current research. 
Progressive damage in morphology and function of cells and tissue characterizes 
the normal process of aging that is influenced by both genetic and environmental 
factors. The ability of each individual to adapt to these stressors defines the 
type of aging and the onset of age-related diseases (i.e., metabolic syndrome, 
inflammatory disorders, cancer, and neurodegenerative diseases). The endocrine 
system plays a critical role in this process because of its complex 
relationships with brain, immune system, and skeletal muscle; thus, alterations 
in hormonal networks occur during aging to maintain homeostasis, with consequent 
under- or overactivity of specific hypothalamic-pituitary-peripheral hormone 
axes. On the other hand, the increase in life expectancy has led to increasing 
incidence of age-related diseases, including endocrine disorders, which may 
prompt assessment of endocrine function in aging individuals. In this context, 
there is growing awareness that natural changes of endocrine physiology and 
physiopathology occurring with increasing age may necessitate age-driven 
diagnostic cutoffs requiring validation in the elderly. This review aims to 
analyze the available literature on the hormone response to the most important 
dynamic tests currently used in the clinical practice for the screening of 
anterior pituitary-related diseases to underline pitfalls in interpretation 
during aging.

© 2021 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000514434
PMID: 33454712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. J Public Health (Oxf). 2022 Mar 7;44(1):100-110. doi:
10.1093/pubmed/fdaa261.

Trend of the mortality of major liver diseases and its impact on life expectancy 
in China from 2006 to 2017.

Zhu J(1)(2), Wang P(1)(2), Ye H(1)(2), Shi J(2)(3), Wang X(3), Wang K(2)(3), 
Duan F(1)(2), Yang Q(1)(2), Sun G(1)(2), Zhang J(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, College of Public Health, 
Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450001, China.
(2)Henan Key Laboratory of Tumor Epidemiology, College of Public Health, 
Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450001, China.
(3)Precision Medicine Center, BGI College & Henan Institute of Medical and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450001, China.

BACKGROUND: Liver diseases are the serious cause of death in China. We aim to 
describe the trends and disparities of major liver disease mortality rates and 
the loss of life expectancy (LLE) in China.
METHODS: Annual percentage change (APC) and average APC (AAPC) were calculated 
using the Joinpoint regression model. LLE was calculated using cause eliminated 
life table.
RESULTS: From 2006 to 2017, the overall age-standardized mortality rate (ASMR) 
of liver cirrhosis lightly declined (AAPC: -2.97%), whereas the ASMR of viral 
hepatitis and liver cancer remained stable. Viral hepatitis (AAPC: -4.36%) and 
liver cirrhosis (AAPC: -4.35%) ASMRs both declined for females. The highest 
ASMRs of viral hepatitis and liver cirrhosis were in the west region, while that 
of liver cancer was in the middle region. The ASMRs of liver cirrhosis in the 
middle region and liver cancer in the east region significantly decreased. The 
means of LLE on viral hepatitis, liver cirrhosis and liver cancer were 0.05, 0.1 
and 0.46 years, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The burden of liver diseases is still severe and there are 
disparities between genders and different regions in China. Accurate early 
diagnostic approaches for high-risk populations should be established to 
eliminate the burden of liver diseases.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Faculty 
of Public Health. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdaa261
PMID: 33454770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Ir J Psychol Med. 2023 Jun;40(2):282-287. doi: 10.1017/ipm.2021.2. Epub 2021
Jan  18.

Food for thought: the importance of nutritional well-being during COVID-19.

Burke-Furey L(1), McNicholas F(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, SMMS, UCD, Dublin, Ireland.
(2)Paediatric Liaison Psychiatry, Children Hospital, Crumlin, Dublin 12, 
Ireland.
(3)Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, Lucena Clinic, RathgarDublin 6, Ireland.

Individuals with mental illness have poorer physical health, nutritional status, 
and lowered life expectancy. Optimising their physical and nutritional status 
has become an increasingly important therapeutic goal. Current experience with 
COVID-19 has further emphasised the susceptibility to physical illness and 
poorer outcomes amongst individuals with mental illness and those who are 
nutritionally compromised. Although life as we knew it has been suspended until 
the widespread roll-out of a vaccine, individuals can take immediate action to 
improve physical and mental health by attending to and optimising their 
nutritional well-being. Clinicians within mental health services have a crucial 
role to play in assisting such change, and reminding their patients of the 
importance of pursuing a healthy and balanced diet.

DOI: 10.1017/ipm.2021.2
PMCID: PMC7900659
PMID: 33455607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Int J Food Sci. 2020 Dec 30;2020:8867402. doi: 10.1155/2020/8867402.
eCollection  2020.

Effect of Psyllium Husk, Bran, and Raw Wheat Germ Addition on the Rheological 
Characteristics of Arabic (Pita) Bread Dough.

Aldughpassi A(1), Zafar T(1), Sidhu JS(1)(2), Al-Hassawi F(1), Abdullah MM(1), 
Al-Othman A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science & Nutrition, College of Life Sciences, Kuwait 
University, P.O. Box. 5969, Safat, 13060, Kuwait.
(2)Food Science & Nutrition Program, P.O. Box. 24885, Safat, 13109, Kuwait.
(3)Information and Communications Technology Dept, Kuwait Institute for 
Scientific Research, P.O. Box. 24885, Safat, 13109, Kuwait.

Arabic bread (khubuz) made from white flour is the staple food in the Arabic 
countries but has now become popular all over the world. A different approach of 
producing high fiber bread with improved quality can be produced using white 
flour with added mill fractions, but the addition of mill fractions has been 
shown to adversely affect the dough characteristics. Therefore, the effect of 
adding mill fractions on the rheological characteristics of dough was 
investigated using Brabender Farinograph and Extensograph with the major 
objective of eliminating their deleterious effects on dough quality, mainly by 
using psyllium husk, and also reported as an excellent source of soluble dietary 
fiber. Addition of fine bran, coarse bran, and raw wheat germ decreased the 
extensibility and resistance to extension and area under curve, lower dough 
stability, but enhanced water absorption and peak time. Addition of psyllium 
husk, though reduced the extensibility, but did not affect the area under the 
curve adversely, thus overcame some of the negative effects on rheological 
characteristics of the white flour dough. It was concluded that the use of 
psyllium husk will evidently help the bakers to produce nutritious and 
acceptable quality Arabic bread.

Copyright © 2020 Ahmad Aldughpassi et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/8867402
PMCID: PMC7787796
PMID: 33457400

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
conflict of financial interests or personal relationships that could have 
appeared to influence the outcome of this research work.


581. J Endourol Case Rep. 2020 Dec 29;6(4):268-270. doi: 10.1089/cren.2020.0046. 
eCollection 2020.

Recurrent Xanthine Stones in a Young Patient with Lesch-Nyhan Syndrome.

Meagher MF(1), Bechis SK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, UC San Diego School of Medicine, La Jolla, California, 
USA.
(2)Department of Urology, Comprehensive Kidney Stone Center, UC San Diego 
Health, San Diego, California, USA.

Background: Lesch-Nyhan syndrome results from a rare X-linked inborn error of 
metabolism leading to a total body accumulation of uric acid. Clinical 
manifestations include self-mutilating behavior, poor muscle control, 
intellectual disability, gout, and kidney disease. Unfortunately, life 
expectancy is limited to the second or third decade of life because of symptoms 
associated with hyperuricemia, particularly renal failure. Patients with this 
condition frequently necessitate urologic intervention as the buildup of 
lithogenic substances predispose individuals to the development of kidney and 
bladder stones. Case Presentation: We present the case of a 23-year-old white 
man with known Lesch-Nyhan syndrome and recurrent bilateral xanthine stones 
despite repeated urologic interventions. Conclusion: Therapy for Lesch-Nyhan 
syndrome consists of reduction of uric acid achieved through allopurinol. 
However, excess allopurinol dosing can lead to development of xanthine kidney 
and bladder stones. Thus, the treating clinician must maintain a delicate 
balance between managing hyperuricemia and avoiding xanthine urolithiasis.

Copyright 2020, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc., publishers.

DOI: 10.1089/cren.2020.0046
PMCID: PMC7803241
PMID: 33457651

Conflict of interest statement: No competing financial interests exist.


582. J Telemed Telecare. 2023 May;29(4):247-260. doi: 10.1177/1357633X20980291.
Epub  2021 Jan 17.

The effectiveness of internet-based telerehabilitation among patients after 
total joint arthroplasty: A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised 
controlled trials.

Wang Q(1)(2), Lee RL(2), Hunter S(2), Chan SW(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing and Health Management, Shanghai University of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(2)School of Nursing and Midwifery, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, NSW, 
Australia.
(3)University of Newcastle Singapore Campus, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, 
NSW, Australia.
(4)Priority Research Centre for Brain and Mental Health, University of 
Newcastle, Callaghan, NSW, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: The aim of this review was to systematically evaluate the 
available evidence on the effectiveness of internet-based telerehabilitation 
among patients after total joint arthroplasty regarding pain, range of motion, 
physical function, health-related quality of life, satisfaction, and 
psychological well-being.
METHODS: This was a systematic review with meta-analysis based on the Cochrane 
Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions guidelines. Studies published 
in English or Chinese were searched using defined search periods, databases, and 
search terms. Two reviewers assessed independently the quality of studies. 
RevMan 5.3 was used for meta-analysis. Heterogeneity was assessed using the χ2 
and I2 statistic. A random effect model and mean difference (MD) with 95% 
confidence interval (CI) was adopted. Standardised mean difference (SMD) was 
used if the outcome was measured by different scales.
RESULTS: Eleven studies with 1020 participants were analysed. Compared to 
face-to-face rehabilitation, internet-based telerehabilitation showed no 
significant difference in outcomes of pain (SMD-0.11, 95% CI-0.32 to 0.10), 
range of motion in flexion (MD 0.65, 95% CI-1.18 to 2.48) and extension 
(MD-0.38, 95% CI-1.16 to 0.40), patient-reported physical function (SMD 0.01, 
95% CI-0.15 to 0.17), health-related quality of life (SMD-0.09, 95% CI-0.26 to 
0.07), satisfaction (SMD-0.04, 95% CI-0.21 to 0.14), and psychological 
well-being (SMD 0.10, 95% CI-0.13 to 0.33). Internet-based telerehabilitation 
showed better outcomes in physical functional tests (SMD-0.54, 95% CI-1.08 
to-0.01).
DISCUSSION: This review suggests that internet-based telerehabilitation has 
comparable effectiveness to face-to-face rehabilitation on rehabilitation 
outcomes among patients after total joint arthroplasty.

DOI: 10.1177/1357633X20980291
PMID: 33459120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Prep Biochem Biotechnol. 2021;51(6):519-529. doi:
10.1080/10826068.2020.1839907.  Epub 2021 Jan 18.

Challenges and advancements in the pharmacokinetic enhancement of therapeutic 
proteins.

Khodabakhsh F(1), Salimian M(2), Hedayati MH(3), Ahangari Cohan R(4), Norouzian 
D(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics and Advanced Medical Technology, Medical Biotechnology 
Research Center, Faculty of Medicine, AJA University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Medical Laboratory, Kashan University of Medical Sciences, 
Kashan, Iran.
(3)Department of Quality Control, Research and Production Complex, Pasteur 
Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Nanobiotechnology, New Technologies Research Group, Pasteur 
Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.

Nowadays, proteins are frequently administered as therapeutic agents in human 
diseases. However, the main challenge regarding the clinical application of 
therapeutic proteins is short circulating plasma half-life that leads to more 
frequent injections for maintaining therapeutic plasma levels, increased therapy 
costs, immunogenic reactions, and low patient compliance. So, the development of 
novel strategies to enhance the pharmacokinetic profile of therapeutic proteins 
has attracted great attention in pharmaceuticals. So far, several techniques, 
each with their pros and cons, have been developed including chemical bonding to 
polymers, hyper glycosylation, Fc fusion, human serum albumin fusion, and 
recombinant PEG mimetics. These techniques mainly classify into three 
strategies; (i) the endosomal recycling of neonatal Fc receptor which is 
observed for immunoglobulins and albumin, (ii) decrease in receptor-mediated 
clearance, and (iii) increase in hydrodynamic radius through chemical and 
genetic modifications. Recently, novel PEG mimetic peptides like 
proline/alanine/serine repeat sequences are designed to overcome pitfalls 
associated with the previous technologies. Biodegradability, lack of or low 
immunogenicity, product homogeneity, and a simple production process, currently 
make these polypeptides as the preferred technology for plasma half-life 
extension of therapeutic proteins. In this review, challenges and pitfalls in 
the pharmacokinetic enhancement of therapeutic proteins using PEG-mimetic 
peptides will be discussed in detail.

DOI: 10.1080/10826068.2020.1839907
PMID: 33459157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Arch Esp Urol. 2021 Jan;74(1):63-70.

Medical treatment of renal stones.

[Article in English, Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

López Martínez JM(1), Sierra Del Rio A(1), Luque Galvez MP(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital Clínic de Barcelona. Barcelona. España.

INTRODUCTION: Prevalence of urolithiasisis estimated between 5-15% with a clear 
trend to increasing in the industrialized countries. Stone recurrent patients 
show an increased risk of chronic renal disease which can potentially limit 
their life expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: A review and summary of the different recommended treatment options 
to prevent urinary stone recurrence based on the type of calculi or urinary 
metabolic alterations in 24 h urine, according to recent guidelines and 
publications.
CONCLUSIONS: Dietetic and pharmacologic measures, when addressed depending on 
the type of stone and results of metabolic evaluation have shown a decrease up 
to 60% of the recurrent clinical events. The increase of prevalence worldwide 
and the potential risk of chronic kidney disease in these patients clearly 
justify the need of increasing physiopathologic knowledge leading urolithiasis 
formation in order to develop new and more effective drugs for its prevention.

Publisher: INTRODUCCIÓN: La prevalencia de lapatología litiásica se estima en un 
5% al 15%, con unaclara tendencia al aumento en los países industrializados. Los 
pacientes con episodios recurrentes de litiasis renal presentan un riesgo 
aumentado de enfermedad renal crónica que puede potencialmente limitar su 
expectativade vida.OBJETIVO: Revisión y síntesis de las opciones terapéuticas 
recomendadas para la prevención en la recurrencia de cálculos urinarios basadas 
en el tipo de cálculo o alteración urinaria en orina de 24 horas, según las 
guías clínicas y publicaciones recientes.CONCLUSIONES: Medidas dietéticas y 
farmacológicas han demostrado una reducción de hasta el 60% en la recurrencia de 
episodios clínicos cuando son dirigidas según el tipo de cálculo y los 
resultados de los estudios metabólicos. El aumento en la prevalencia mundial de 
esta patología y el potencial riesgo de enfermedad renal crónica en pacientes 
recurrentes, justifican la necesidad de ampliar los conocimientos 
fisiopatológicos que precipitan la formación de litiasis urinarias para el 
desarrollo de nuevos tratamientos más eficaces en la prevención de esta 
enfermedad.

PMID: 33459622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Brain Behav. 2020 Sep;10(9):e01755. doi: 10.1002/brb3.1755. Epub 2020 Aug 9.

Human development index in a context of human development: Review on the western 
Balkans countries.

Dasic B(1), Devic Z(2), Denic N(3), Zlatkovic D(4), Ilic ID(5), Cao Y(6), 
Jermsittiparsert K(7)(8), Le HV(9).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Trade and Banking, Alfa BK University, Belgrade, Serbia.
(2)College of Economics Pec-Leposavic, Leposavic, Serbia.
(3)Faculty of Sciences, University of Pristina, Kosovska Mitrovica, Serbia.
(4)Faculty of Mathematics and Computer Sciences, Alfa BK University, Belgrade, 
Serbia.
(5)Department for Mathematics and Informatics, Medical Faculty, University of 
Nis, Nis, Serbia.
(6)School of Mechatronic Engineering, Xi'an Technological University, Xi'an, 
China.
(7)Department for Management of Science and Technology Development, Ton Duc 
Thang University, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
(8)Faculty of Social Sciences and Humanities, Ton Duc Thang University, Ho Chi 
Minh City, Vietnam.
(9)Institute of Research and Development, Duy Tan University, Da Nang, Vietnam.

INTRODUCTION: The Human Development Index (HDI), as one of the more complex 
composite indicators of the level of human potential and quality of life, is a 
combination of three dimensions (indicators, factors): life expectancy at birth, 
the middle number of years of education and the expected number of years of 
schooling combined into a single education index and economic benefits expressed 
by production, or GDP (gross domestic product) according to purchasing power 
(PPP US $).
METHODS: The same measures and average achievements in the field of health, 
education, and living standards are presented. The HDI was first developed in 
1990 under the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and is published as 
Human Development Reports (HDR). At present, it has become the most widely used 
complex indicator suitable for international comparisons and assessments of the 
achieved development level of a particular country or region.
RESULTS: The paper deals specifically with the more perspective view of human 
development in the Western Balkans, with a series of socio-economic implications 
for the development policy of the countries under observation.
CONCLUSION: The particular significance of the conducted research stems from the 
fact that in the countries of the Western Balkans are identified factors at the 
beginning of the transition period were often marginalized in the creation of 
macroeconomic policies, but in recent years there have been more positive 
developments in that regard.

© 2020 The Authors. Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/brb3.1755
PMCID: PMC7507379
PMID: 33460259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


586. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2020 Nov;55(11):3110-3118. doi: 10.1002/ppul.24996. Epub
2020  Aug 12.

Cost-utility analysis of an integrated care program for children with asthma in 
a medium-income country.

Duenas-Meza E(1)(2)(3), Giraldo-Cadavid LF(4)(5), Karpf E(6), Afanador F(6), 
Angarita OL(6), Barón O(1)(3), Medina MS(1)(3), Pachón A(1), Gonzalez A(4), 
Jurado J(1)(2)(3), Torres-Duque CA(4)(7).

Author information:
(1)Section of Pediatric Pulmonology, Fundacion Neumologica Colombiana, Bogotá, 
Colombia.
(2)Pediatric Department, School of Medicine, University of La Sabana, Bogotá, 
Colombia.
(3)Department of Pediatric, Fundación Cardioinfantil-Instituto de Cardiologia, 
Bogotá, Colombia.
(4)Department of Pulmonology, Fundacion Neumologica Colombiana, Bogotá, 
Colombia.
(5)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Medicine, University 
of La Sabana, Bogotá, Colombia.
(6)Novartis de Colombia, Colombia.
(7)School of Medicine, University of La Sabana, Bogotá, Colombia.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-utility of an integrated care program (ASMAIRE 
Infantil Program [PAI]) for children with asthma compared with standard of care.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was used to compare an integrated care 
program compared to the standard of care in children with asthma in Bogota, 
Colombia. Baseline characteristics of the patients were established according to 
the distribution of patients in the PAI database. Other inputs were obtained 
from published meta-analysis, local registries, medical bills, general mortality 
data, and expert opinion. Costs were presented in 2017 Colombian pesos. Outcomes 
included quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Costs and outcomes were discounted 
by 5% per year. Incremental cost-utility ratios were presented for PAI compared 
with standard of care. Univariate and multivariate probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses were conducted to assess model robustness to parameter uncertainty.
RESULTS: The model predicted that patients that are part of the PAI would accrue 
more QALYs than patients on standard of care. The incremental results suggest 
that the PAI is a cost-effective treatment (incremental cost-utility ratio of 
Colombian pesos $33 753 817/QALY) compared with standard of care. Sensitivity 
analyses suggest that results are most sensitive to cost of care (with and 
without PAI) and costs of severe exacerbation. However, the PAI is 
cost-effective irrespective of variation in any of the input parameters.
CONCLUSION: Our model predicted that an integrated intervention for the 
management of asthma in pediatric patients improves QALYs, reduces number of 
disease related exacerbations compared to standard therapy and is cost-effective 
for the long-term control of the disease in Colombia.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ppul.24996
PMID: 33460317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Mech Ageing Dev. 2021 Mar;194:111436. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2021.111436. Epub
2021  Jan 15.

Predicting negative health outcomes in older general practice patients with 
chronic illness: Rationale and development of the PROPERmed harmonized 
individual participant data database.

González-González AI(1), Dinh TS(2), Meid AD(3), Blom JW(4), van den Akker M(5), 
Elders PJM(6), Thiem U(7), Kuellenberg de Gaudry D(8), Snell KIE(9), Perera 
R(10), Swart KMA(6), Rudolf H(11), Bosch-Lenders D(12), Trampisch HJ(11), 
Meerpohl JJ(13), Flaig B(2), Kom G(14), Gerlach FM(2), Hafaeli WE(3), Glasziou 
PP(15), Muth C(16).

Author information:
(1)Institute of General Practice, Goethe University Frankfurt, 60590, Frankfurt 
am Main, Germany; Red de Investigación en Servicios de Salud en Enfermedades 
Crónicas (REDISSEC), Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: 
gonzalezgonzalez@allgemeinmedizin.uni-frankfurt.de.
(2)Institute of General Practice, Goethe University Frankfurt, 60590, Frankfurt 
am Main, Germany.
(3)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Pharmacoepidemiology, University 
Hospital Heidelberg, 69120, Heidelberg, Germany.
(4)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Leiden University Medical 
Center, 2300RC, Leiden, the Netherlands.
(5)Institute of General Practice, Goethe University Frankfurt, 60590, Frankfurt 
am Main, Germany; School of CAPHRI, Department of Family Medicine, Maastricht 
University, 6211 LK, Maastricht, the Netherlands; Academic Centre for General 
Practice, Department of Public Health and Primary Care, KU, Leuven, Belgium.
(6)Department of General Practice and Elderly Care Medicine, Amsterdam 
University Medical Center, 1007 MB, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(7)Chair of Geriatrics and Gerontology, University Clinic Eppendorf, 20246, 
Hamburg, Germany.
(8)Institute for Evidence in Medicine (for Cochrane Germany Foundation), Medical 
Center - University of Freiburg, 79110, Freiburg, Germany.
(9)Centre for Prognosis Research, School of Primary Care Research, Community and 
Social Care, Keele University, Staffordshire, ST5 5BG, United Kingdom.
(10)Nuffield Department of Primary Care, University of Oxford, Oxford, OX2 6GG, 
United Kingdom.
(11)Department of Medical Informatics, Biometry and Epidemiology, Ruhr 
University, 44780, Bochum, Germany.
(12)School of CAPHRI, Department of Family Medicine, Maastricht University, 6211 
LK, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(13)Institute for Evidence in Medicine (for Cochrane Germany Foundation), 
Medical Center - University of Freiburg, 79110, Freiburg, Germany; Cochrane 
Germany, Cochrane Germany Foundation, Breisacher Strasse 153, 79110, Freiburg, 
Germany.
(14)Techniker Krankenkasse (TK), 22765, Hamburg, Germany.
(15)Centre for Research in Evidence-Based Practice, Bond University, Robina, 
QLD, 4226, Australia.
(16)Institute of General Practice, Goethe University Frankfurt, 60590, Frankfurt 
am Main, Germany; Department of General Practice and Family Medicine, Medical 
Faculty OWL, University of Bielefeld, 33615, Bielefeld, Germany.

The prevalence of multimorbidity and polypharmacy increases significantly with 
age and are associated with negative health consequences. However, most current 
interventions to optimize medication have failed to show significant effects on 
patient-relevant outcomes. This may be due to ineffectiveness of interventions 
themselves but may also reflect other factors: insufficient sample sizes, 
heterogeneity of population. To address this issue, the international PROPERmed 
collaboration was set up to obtain/synthesize individual participant data (IPD) 
from five cluster-randomized trials. The trials took place in Germany and The 
Netherlands and aimed to optimize medication in older general practice patients 
with chronic illness. PROPERmed is the first database of IPD to be drawn from 
multiple trials in this patient population and setting. It offers the 
opportunity to derive prognostic models with increased statistical power for 
prediction of patient-relevant outcomes resulting from the interplay of 
multimorbidity and polypharmacy. This may help patients from this heterogeneous 
group to be stratified according to risk and enable clinicians to identify 
patients that are likely to benefit most from resource/time-intensive 
interventions. The aim of this manuscript is to describe the rationale behind 
PROPERmed collaboration, characteristics of the included studies/participants, 
development of the harmonized IPD database and challenges faced during this 
process.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2021.111436
PMID: 33460622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. J Med Econ. 2021 Jan-Dec;24(1):150-161. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2021.1875743.

The cost-effectiveness of glasdegib in combination with low-dose cytarabine, for 
the treatment of newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia in adult patients who 
are not eligible to receive intensive induction chemotherapy in Canada.

Hu Y(1), Charaan M(2), van Oostrum I(1), Heeg B(1), Bell T(3).

Author information:
(1)Ingress-Health, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(2)Pfizer Canada Inc, Quebec, Canada.
(3)Pfizer Inc, New York, USA.

AIM: The clinical efficacy and safety of DAURISMO (glasdegib) combined with 
low-dose cytarabine (LDAC) were demonstrated in the BRIGHT AML 1003 study among 
newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia patients who are not eligible to receive 
intensive chemotherapy. This study aims to evaluate its cost-effectiveness 
versus LDAC alone and azacitidine from a Canadian payer perspective.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A partitioned-survival model was developed with three 
health states: progression-free survival (PFS), relapse/progression and death. 
Clinical inputs were obtained from the BRIGHT AML 1003 study for glasdegib and 
LDAC, and from the two trial publications and indirect treatment comparison for 
azacitidine. Drug acquisition/administration, disease management, adverse event 
and end-of-life costs were considered. All costs were measured in Canadian 
dollars. Cost-effectiveness of glasdegib + LDAC was assessed against LDAC alone 
in main population, and against azacitidine by bone marrow blasts (BMB). A 
weighted average ICER was calculated to represent the current treatment use of 
Canadian clinical practice. The reference-case analysis was conducted 
probabilistically, and numerous probabilistic scenario analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) compared to LDAC 
alone was CAD $177,065 (a mean gain of 0.41 QALYs and an incremental cost of CAD 
$72,695), to azacitidine in 20-30% and >30% BMB group were CAD $178,201 (a mean 
gain of 0.34 QALYs and an incremental cost of CAD $59,889) and dominant (a mean 
gain of 0.28 QALYs while reducing costs by CAD $7,856) respectively, resulting 
in a weighted average ICER of CAD $81,310 per QALY.
LIMITATIONS AND CONCLUSIONS: Though uncertainties remain with the generated PFS 
curve, the derived azacitidine curves, administration and vial wastage, the 
model has been built under the best available evidence and relied on clinical 
opinions where there were data gaps. The weighted average ICER suggests that 
glasdegib + LDAC is cost-effective at a CAD $100,000 willingness-to-pay 
threshold.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2021.1875743
PMID: 33461352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Aust J Prim Health. 2021 Jan 19. doi: 10.1071/PY20164. Online ahead of
print.

Multimorbidity through the lens of life-limiting illness: how helpful are 
Australian clinical practice guidelines to its management in primary care?

Damarell RA, Morgan DD, Tieman JJ, Healey DF.

This study assessed Australian clinical practice guidelines for life-limiting 
index conditions for the extent to which they acknowledged comorbidities and 
framed management recommendations within the context of older age and reduced 
life expectancy. A comprehensive search identified current, evidence-based 
Australian guidelines for chronic life-limiting conditions directed at general 
practitioners. Guideline content was analysed qualitatively before comorbidity 
acknowledgements were quantified using a 17-item checklist. Full guidelines were 
quality appraised using AGREE-II. Ten documents covering chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, heart failure, cancer pain, dementia and palliative care in 
aged care were identified. Most guidelines addressed one 'comorbid' condition 
and prompted clinicians to consider patient quality of life and personal 
preferences. Fewer addressed burden of treatment and half suggested modifying 
treatments to account for limited life expectancy, age or time horizon to 
benefit. Half warned of potential adverse drug interactions. Guidelines were of 
moderate to very high quality. Guidelines naturally prioritised their index 
condition, directing attention to only the most common comorbidities. However, 
there may be scope to include more condition-agnostic guidance on multimorbidity 
management. This might be modelled on the 'guiding principles' approach now 
emerging internationally from organisations such as the American Geriatrics 
Society in response to increasing multimorbidity prevalence and evidence 
limitations.

DOI: 10.1071/PY20164
PMID: 33461658


590. Artif Intell Med. 2021 Jan;111:101984. doi: 10.1016/j.artmed.2020.101984.
Epub  2020 Nov 10.

Cartesian genetic programming for diagnosis of Parkinson disease through 
handwriting analysis: Performance vs. interpretability issues.

Parziale A(1), Senatore R(2), Della Cioppa A(3), Marcelli A(4).

Author information:
(1)Natural Computation Lab, DIEM, Università degli Studi di Salerno, Via 
Giovanni Paolo II, 132, 84084 Fisciano (SA), Italy. Electronic address: 
anparziale@unisa.it.
(2)Natural Computation Lab, DIEM, Università degli Studi di Salerno, Via 
Giovanni Paolo II, 132, 84084 Fisciano (SA), Italy. Electronic address: 
rsenatore@unisa.it.
(3)Natural Computation Lab, DIEM, Università degli Studi di Salerno, Via 
Giovanni Paolo II, 132, 84084 Fisciano (SA), Italy; Institute for 
High-Performance Computing and Networking, National Research Council, Naples, 
Italy. Electronic address: adellacioppa@unisa.it.
(4)Natural Computation Lab, DIEM, Università degli Studi di Salerno, Via 
Giovanni Paolo II, 132, 84084 Fisciano (SA), Italy. Electronic address: 
amarcelli@unisa.it.

In the last decades, early disease identification through non-invasive and 
automatic methodologies has gathered increasing interest from the scientific 
community. Among others, Parkinson's disease (PD) has received special attention 
in that it is a severe and progressive neuro-degenerative disease. As a 
consequence, early diagnosis would provide more effective and prompt care 
