whole-body planar scans. In cohort 2, 12 patients were imaged similarly as in 1 
initially; thereafter, they received 3 doses of unlabeled ABT-806, before 
another dose of ABT-806i with associated SPECT and whole-body planar scans. At 
the end of both cohorts, patients who had stable or responding disease were able 
to enroll into an extension study (M12-326) in which they received unlabeled 
ABT-806 every 2 wk until disease progression, withdrawal of consent, or 
intolerable toxicity. Results: No toxicity related to ABT-806i infusion was 
observed. ABT-806i showed minimal uptake in normal tissues and cleared gradually 
from blood with a half-life of 6.0 ± 1.5 d. The mean effective dose of ABT-806i 
was 0.137 mSv/MBq for males and 0.183 mSv/MBq for females. ABT-806i tumor uptake 
varied and did not correlate with archived tumor EGFR expression. No change in 
ABT-806i uptake was observed after interval ABT-806 treatment, indicating stable 
EGFR expression in tumor. The patient with highest tumor uptake of ABT-806i had 
advanced head and neck cancer and experienced a partial response. Conclusion: 
ABT-806i allows for real-time imaging of EGFR conformational expression in 
tumors, has an acceptable radiation dosimetry, and provides important additional 
information about antigen expression compared with standard approaches using 
archival tissue. Its role to assist in patient selection for EGFR-based 
therapeutics and investigate treatment resistance should be further 
investigated.

© 2021 by the Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging.

DOI: 10.2967/jnumed.120.253146
PMID: 33509972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Med J Malaysia. 2021 Jan;76(1):46-50.

Haemophilia care and outcome in a major haemophilia treatment centre in 
Malaysia.

Boo YL(1), Liam CCK(2), Yong KY(2), Fann RJ(2), Lee GWC(2), Wilfred G(2), Sathar 
J(2).

Author information:
(1)Hospital Ampang, Department of Haematology, Selangor, Malaysia. 
coolrontin@gmail.com.
(2)Hospital Ampang, Department of Haematology, Selangor, Malaysia.

INTRODUCTION/OBJECTIVE: The management of potential treatment-related 
complications and bleeding events in haemophilia is challenging in developing 
countries. Providing optimal care among these patients improve their quality of 
life (QOL) and life expectancy. This study explores the demographic 
characteristics and treatment outcome in a major haemophilia treatment centre in 
Malaysia.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 260 patients were recruited in this 
retrospective cross-sectional analysis. Clinical data, including treatment 
regimens and outcome, were collected and analysed.
RESULTS: A total of 211 patients were diagnosed with haemophilia A (HA) (severe 
disease, 72.5%) and 49 patients had haemophilia B (HB) (severe disease, 65.3%). 
The median age was 31 (IQR;2-84) years. Majority of the patients had at least 
one episode of musculoskeletal bleeding since diagnosis. The mean annual 
bleeding event (ABE) was 4.91 (SD±6.07) in 2018. Target joints were identified 
in 80.4% of the patients. Chronic arthropathy and synovitis collectively 
accounted for more than half of the musculoskeletal complications. 30.1% of the 
patients had contracted hepatitis C with less than half received treatment. 
Thirty-one patients (16.8%) with severe haemophilia developed inhibitor and 12 
patients successfully underwent immune tolerance induction. More than 
three-quarters of the severe haemophilia patients were treated with factor 
concentrate prophylaxis. The mean prophylaxis dose for HA and HB were 41.3 
(SD±19.1) and 48.6 (SD±21.5) IU/kg/week, respectively. In patients with severe 
disease, prophylaxis significantly reduced the ABE (5.45,9.03;p=0.005).
CONCLUSION: The importance of utilising a low to moderate dose regimen as 
prophylaxis in haemophilic patients is highlighted in our study. Future studies 
should include QOL assessment will further improve the management in 
haemophilia.

PMID: 33510108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. SSM Popul Health. 2021 Jan 14;13:100735. doi: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2021.100735. 
eCollection 2021 Mar.

Happiness and life expectancy by main occupational position among older workers: 
Who will live longer and happy?

Lozano M(1), Solé-Auró A(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre D'Estudis Demogràfics, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, C/ Ca 
N'Altayó, E2, 08193, Bellaterra, Spain.
(2)DemoSoc Research Group, Department of Political and Social Sciences, 
Universitat Pompeu Fabra, C/ Ramon Trias Fargas, 25-27, 08005, Barcelona, Spain.

Current concerns about aging populations are being translated into legislations 
to postpone the statutory age at retirement. However, if this is done without 
considering inequalities in longevity across occupational groups, some may face 
higher vulnerabilities than others. We examine differences in life expectancy 
and happiness by occupational position for the Spanish population aged 50 and 
over. We use happiness as a measure of subjective wellbeing, and compute life 
expectancy and happy life expectancy by sex and main occupation. Age-specific 
death rates are calculated using administrative data, and happiness prevalence 
comes from the European Social Survey. We show that both men and women in 
managerial positions were advantaged in terms of life expectancy, but only men 
record more years with happiness. In addition, women in routine jobs were the 
ones who could expect to live shorter and unhappier. Postponing the statutory 
age at retirement without considering these differences could be detrimental to 
women's wellbeing and health.

© 2021 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2021.100735
PMCID: PMC7815996
PMID: 33511266


744. Tumori. 2022 Feb;108(1):33-39. doi: 10.1177/0300891620985309. Epub 2021 Jan
29.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of durvalumab plus etoposide: platinum in the 
first-line therapy of extensive stage small-cell lung cancer from the Chinese 
payers' perspective.

Tong YH(1)(2), Ding HY(1)(2), Xin WX(1)(2), Zhong LK(1)(2), Xu GQ(1)(2), Zhang 
B(2)(3), Yang GN(1)(2), Fang L(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The Cancer Hospital of the University of Chinese 
Academy of Sciences (Zhejiang Cancer Hospital), Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(2)Institute of Cancer and Basic Medicine (IBMC), Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(3)Department of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Cancer Hospital of the 
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences (Zhejiang Cancer Hospital), Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang, China.

INTRODUCTION: Results from the CASPIAN trial (Durvalumab ± Tremelimumab in 
Combination With Platinum Based Chemotherapy in Untreated Extensive-Stage Small 
Cell Lung Cancer) trial demonstrated the clinical benefit of durvalumab plus 
etoposide-platinum (EP) chemotherapy as first-line treatment for patients with 
extensive stage small-cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC). However, considering the high 
price of durvalumab, it is unclear whether addition of durvalumab to EP 
chemotherapy has economic value compared with EP alone. In this study, we aimed 
to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of durvalumab plus EP chemotherapy as a 
first-line treatment for patients with ES-SCLC.
METHODS: A Markov model comprising three health states (stable, progressive, and 
dead) was developed to simulate the process of small-cell lung cancer. Utility 
and costs were obtained from published resources. Health outcomes were derived 
from the CASPIAN trial. Costs were calculated based on the standard medical fees 
in Zhejiang Province from Chinese patients' perspective. Utility values were 
obtained from published data. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
were applied to verify model robustness.
RESULTS: The addition of durvalumab to EP chemotherapy costs more than $32,220, 
with a gain of 0.14 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) compared with EP alone. 
The incremental cost-effective ratio was $230,142.9 per QALY, which exceeds the 
willingness to pay threshold of $28,527 per QALY. In the sensitivity analysis, 
the utility values for the progressive state, costs of durvalumab and EP 
chemotherapy, and costs for the progressive state were considered to be the 
three most sensitive factors in the model.
CONCLUSION: The addition of durvalumab to EP chemotherapy is not a 
cost-effective strategy in the first-line therapy of ES-SCLC from the Chinese 
payers' perspective.

DOI: 10.1177/0300891620985309
PMID: 33511911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Recenti Prog Med. 2021 Jan;112(1):75-80. doi: 10.1701/3525.35127.

[Ablative therapies of pancreatic neoplasms.].

[Article in Italian]

Crinò SF, Conti Bellocchi MC, Paiella S, Gabbrielli A.

The interest for pancreatic neoplasm ablation under endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) 
guidance has increased during the last decade because of technology advancement 
and availability of dedicated devices for thermal ablation. The most commonly 
used technique is radiofrequency ablation (RFA). Currently, three 
needle-electrodes and one "through-the-needle" probe are available. Published 
studies mainly demonstrated the feasibility and safety of the procedure. 
However, the role of EUS-RFA for the treatment of pancreatic ductal 
adenocarcinoma is not yet well defined. Randomized studies are needed to assess 
any advantage in terms of survival and quality of life when RFA is included in a 
multimodal treatment strategy compared with chemo(radio)therapy alone. In the 
setting of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (pNETs), published studies are 
consistent in demonstrating the efficacy of EUS-RFA in relieving symptoms 
related to hormone secretion by functioning pNETs. Moreover, EUS-RFA could find 
a role even in selected patients with small non-functioning pNETs when treatment 
is indicated but surgical resection would like to be avoided. Finally, EUS-RFA 
can be applied also for the treatment of pancreatic cystic neoplasm. However, 
patients should be carefully selected taking into account the low incidence of 
progression of cystic neoplasms towards malignancy and factors related to the 
patient, such as age, symptoms, comorbidity, and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1701/3525.35127
PMID: 33512362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Curr Opin Psychol. 2021 Feb;37:134-138. doi: 10.1016/j.copsyc.2020.12.005.
Epub  2021 Jan 26.

Five failures and five challenges for prevention and early intervention for 
personality disorder.

Chanen AM(1), Nicol K(2).

Author information:
(1)Orygen, Melbourne, Australia; Centre for Youth Mental Health, The University 
of Melbourne, Australia. Electronic address: andrew.chanen@orygen.org.au.
(2)Orygen, Melbourne, Australia; Centre for Youth Mental Health, The University 
of Melbourne, Australia.

Despite global consensus regarding the early detection of personality disorder, 
current approaches to early intervention have failed to deliver for the majority 
of young people. This only serves to reinforce the enduring effects of 
personality disorder on functioning, mental and physical health, resulting in a 
reduction of quality of life and life expectancy. Here, we describe five 
significant challenges facing prevention and early intervention for personality 
disorder: identification, access to treatment, research translation, 
innovation and functional recovery. These challenges highlight the need for 
early intervention to shift from niche programmes in specialist services for a 
select few young people to become established in mainstream primary care and 
specialist youth mental health services.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.copsyc.2020.12.005
PMID: 33513519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement Nothing declared.


747. Trop Med Infect Dis. 2021 Jan 27;6(1):17. doi: 10.3390/tropicalmed6010017.

The Cost of Lost Productivity Due to Premature Chagas Disease-Related Mortality: 
Lessons from Colombia (2010-2017).

Olivera MJ(1)(2), Palencia-Sánchez F(3), Riaño-Casallas M(4).

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Parasitología, Instituto Nacional de Salud, Bogotá 111321, D.C., 
Colombia.
(2)Programme in Health Economics, Pontificia Universidad Javeriana, Bogotá 
110231, D.C., Colombia.
(3)Facultad de Medicina, Departamento de Medicina Preventiva y Social, 
Pontificia Universidad Javeriana, Bogotá 110231, D.C., Colombia.
(4)Facultad de Ciencias Económicas, Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Bogotá 
111321, D.C., Colombia.

BACKGROUND: Economic burden due to premature mortality has a negative impact not 
only in health systems but also in wider society. The aim of this study was to 
estimate the potential years of work lost (PYWL) and the productivity costs of 
premature mortality due to Chagas disease in Colombia from 2010 to 2017.
METHODS: National data on mortality (underlying cause of death) were obtained 
from the National Administrative Department of Statistics in Colombia between 
2010 and 2017, in which Chagas disease was mentioned on the death certificate as 
an underlying or associated cause of death. Chagas disease as a cause of death 
corresponded to category B57 (Chagas disease) including all subcategories (B57.0 
to B57.5), according to the Tenth Revision of the International Statistical 
Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (ICD-10). The electronic 
database contains the number of deaths from all causes by sex and 5-year age 
group. Economic data, including wages, unemployment rates, labor force 
participation rates and gross domestic product, were derived from the Bank of 
the Republic of Colombia. The human capital approach was applied to estimate 
both the PYWL and present value of lifetime income lost due to premature deaths. 
A discount rate of 3% was applied and results are presented in 2017 US dollars 
(USD).
RESULTS: There were 1261 deaths in the study, of which, 60% occurred in males. 
Premature deaths from Chagas resulted in 48,621 PYWL and a cost of USD 29 
million in the present value of lifetime income forgone.
CONCLUSION: The productivity costs of premature mortality due to Chagas disease 
are significant. These results provide an economic measure of the Chagas burden 
which can help policy makers allocate resources to continue with early detection 
programs.

DOI: 10.3390/tropicalmed6010017
PMCID: PMC7838814
PMID: 33513668

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest.


748. Microorganisms. 2021 Jan 27;9(2):253. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms9020253.

Label-Free Quantitative Proteomics Analysis in Susceptible and Resistant 
Brassica napus Cultivars Infected with Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris.

Islam MT(1)(2), Lee BR(1)(3), La VH(1), Bae DW(4), Jung WJ(5), Kim TH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, Institute of Agricultural Science and 
Technology, College of Agriculture & Life Science, Chonnam National University, 
Gwangju 61186, Korea.
(2)Alson H. Smith Jr. Agricultural Research and Extension Center, School of 
Plant and Environmental Sciences, Virginia Tech, Winchester, VA 22602, USA.
(3)Asian Pear Research Institute, Chonnam National University, Gwangju 61186, 
Korea.
(4)Central Instrument Facility, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju 52828, 
Korea.
(5)Division of Applied Bioscience and Biotechnology, Institute of 
Environmentally Friendly Agriculture (IEFA), College of Agriculture and Life 
Science, Chonnam National University, Gwangju 61186, Korea.

Black rot, caused by Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris (Xcc), is the main 
disease of cruciferous vegetables. To characterize the resistance mechanism in 
the Brassica napus-Xcc pathosystem, Xcc-responsive proteins in susceptible (cv. 
Mosa) and resistant (cv. Capitol) cultivars were investigated using gel-free 
quantitative proteomics and analysis of gene expression. This allowed us to 
identify 158 and 163 differentially expressed proteins following Xcc infection 
in cv. Mosa and cv. Capitol, respectively, and to classify them into five major 
categories including antioxidative systems, proteolysis, photosynthesis, redox, 
and innate immunity. All proteins involved in protein degradation such as the 
protease complex, proteasome subunits, and ATP-dependent Clp protease 
proteolytic subunits, were upregulated only in cv. Mosa, in which higher 
hydrogen peroxide accumulation concurred with upregulated superoxide dismutase. 
In cv. Capitol, photosystem II (PS II)-related proteins were downregulated 
(excepting PS II 22 kDa), whereas the PS I proteins, ATP synthase, and 
ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase, were upregulated. For redox-related proteins, 
upregulation of thioredoxin, 2-cys peroxiredoxin, and glutathione S-transferase 
occurred in cv. Capitol, consistent with higher NADH-, ascorbate-, and 
glutathione-based reducing potential, whereas the proteins involved in the C2 
oxidative cycle and glycolysis were highly activated in cv. Mosa. Most innate 
immunity-related proteins, including zinc finger domain (ZFD)-containing 
protein, glycine-rich RNA-binding protein (GRP) and mitochondrial outer membrane 
porin, were highly enhanced in cv. Capitol, concomitant with enhanced expression 
of ZFD and GRP genes. Distinguishable differences in the protein profile between 
the two cultivars deserves higher importance for breeding programs and 
understanding of disease resistance in the B. napus-Xcc pathosystem.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms9020253
PMCID: PMC7911590
PMID: 33513868

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


749. Nutrients. 2021 Jan 27;13(2):402. doi: 10.3390/nu13020402.

Nurse and Nursing Students´ Opinions and Perceptions of Enteral Nutrition by 
Nasogastric Tube in Palliative Care.

Sánchez-Sánchez E(1), Ramírez-Vargas G(1), Peinado-Canas A(1), Martín-Estrada 
F(1), Díaz-Jimenez J(2), Ordonez FJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Punta de Europa Hospital, Algeciras, 11207 Cádiz, Spain.
(2)Faculty of Education Sciences, University of Cádiz, 11519 Puerto Real, Spain.
(3)Human Anatomy, School of Medicine, University of Cadiz, Plaza Fragela s/n, 
11003 Cadiz, Spain.

It is widely accepted that nursing staff play a key role in palliative care 
(PC). The use of Nasogastric tubes (NG tubes) for Enteral Nutrition (EN) 
administration is still controversial in patients who receive PC. The aim of 
this study was to describe nurses' and nursing students´ opinions and 
perceptions about EN using NG tubes in adult patients in palliative care. To 
achieve this goal, a cross-sectional descriptive study was carried out. A 
self-administered, semi-structured questionnaire intended for nurses and nursing 
students was used. Data was descriptively and inferentially analyzed using a 
chi-square test to determine the differential frequency of responses. In 
addition, a multivariate logistic regression model was also conducted. A total 
of 511 participants completed the questionnaire. Among them, nursing staff 
represented 74.9% (n = 383) whereas nursing students were 25.1% (n = 128). When 
life expectancy was above six months, 90.0% (n = 460) reported that EN using NG 
should be implemented. In contrast, when life expectancy is less than a month, 
57.5% (n = 294) discouraged it. Significant differences within groups were found 
when life expectancy was <1 month (p = 0.044). It was also found that 491 
participants (96.1%) reported that patient´s autonomy must be carefully 
respected for deciding whether continuing EN by NG tube or not. Finally, it was 
concluded for both nurses and nursing students that life expectancy should be 
the mean reason for implementing and withdrawing EN by NG tube. Major 
differences were found regarding when it should be ceased, suggesting 
perceptions may change as nurses graduate and move into their professional 
roles.

DOI: 10.3390/nu13020402
PMCID: PMC7911468
PMID: 33513972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


750. BMC Pulm Med. 2021 Jan 29;21(1):46. doi: 10.1186/s12890-021-01412-x.

Severe COVID-19 with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) in a sickle cell 
disease adult patient: case report.

Teulier M(1), Elabbadi A(2), Gerotziafas G(3), Lionnet F(4), Voiriot G(2), 
Fartoukh M(2).

Author information:
(1)Sorbonne Université, Assistance Publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, Service de 
médecine intensive réanimation, Hôpital Tenon, Paris, France. 
marion.teulier@aphp.fr.
(2)Sorbonne Université, Assistance Publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, Service de 
médecine intensive réanimation, Hôpital Tenon, Paris, France.
(3)Sorbonne Université, Assistance Publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, Unité 
d'Explorations Fonctionnelles et Génétiques du Risque Vasculaire, Consultation 
Thrombose - Oncologie, Hôpital Tenon, Paris, France.
(4)Sorbonne Université, Assistance Publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, Service de 
médecine interne, Hôpital Tenon, Paris, France.

BACKGROUND: Sickle-cell anaemia is a widespread genetic disease prevalent 
worldwide among African and African-American populations. The pathogenesis is 
most often revealed by pulmonary conditions, including acute thoracic syndrome, 
which is affecting the life expectancy of these populations. The global spread 
of CoV2-SARS infection with a respiratory tropism, endothelial damages and 
procoagulant status endangers the SCD population. However, with only a few case 
reports, consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic on SCD population remain poorly 
known.
CASE PRESENTATION: We report a case of a 33-year-old man with a history of 
homozygous SS homozygous sickle cell anemia who consulted on March 24, 2020 for 
febrile dyspnea 11 days after the onset of symptoms. A nasopharyngeal swab was 
positive for SARS-CoV-2. His respiratory status worsened rapidly in the 
emergency room and then in ICU leading to severe ARDS requiring intubation, 
curarization, and venovenous ECMO. Hematologically, severe hemolysis associated 
with major thrombocytopenia without documented spinal cord injury was noted. 
Several transfusion exchanges are performed. The evolution was finally slowly 
favorable and led to discharge from the intensive care unit and then from the 
hospital.
CONCLUSIONS: This case recalls the importance of an increased prevention policy 
against COVID-19among the SCD population. In addition, from a therapeutic point 
of view, it advocates (1) a high preventive anticoagulation from the outset 
according to the level of D-dimers (2) the use of venovenous ECMO in this 
particular case, whereas this technique has had rather disappointing results in 
acute chest syndromes. (3) Unexpectedly, our patient did not develop pulmonary 
arterial hypertension (PAH) and acute cor pulmonale (ACP), whereas this is a 
common feature of ARDS during SCD. These last two observations suggest a 
different pathophysiology of pulmonary disorders in SCD patients in the case of 
SARS COv2. It could be associated with marked hypoxemia secondary to pulmonary 
vascular vasodilation.

DOI: 10.1186/s12890-021-01412-x
PMCID: PMC7844798
PMID: 33514354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: To the best of our knowledge, the named authors 
have no competing interests, financial or otherwise.


751. BMJ Open. 2021 Jan 29;11(1):e043476. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-043476.

Protocol for a scoping review of the qualitative literature on Indigenous infant 
feeding experiences.

Monteith H(1), Galloway T(2), Hanley AJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Nutritional Sciences, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Anthropology, University of Toronto, Mississauga, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Nutritional Sciences, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
anthony.hanley@utoronto.ca.

INTRODUCTION: Prudent infant nutrition, including exclusive breastfeeding to 6 
months, is essential for optimal short-term and long-term health. Quantitative 
research to date has documented that many Indigenous communities have lower 
breastfeeding rates than the general population and that this gap in 
breastfeeding initiation and maintenance may have an important impact on chronic 
disease risk later in life. However, there are critical knowledge gaps in the 
literature regarding factors that influence infant feeding decisions. 
Qualitative research on infant feeding experiences provides a broader 
understanding of the challenges that Indigenous caregivers encounter, and 
insights provided by this approach are essential to identify research gaps, 
community engagement strategies, and programme and policy development. The 
objective of this review is to summarise the qualitative literature that 
describes breastfeeding and other infant feeding experiences of Indigenous 
caregivers.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This scoping review will follow guidelines from Preferred 
Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping 
Reviews, the Joanna Briggs Institute and the methodological framework from 
Arksey and O'Malley. In October 2020, we will conduct an electronic database 
search using Medline, Embase, The Cumulative Index to Nursing & Allied Health 
Literature (CINAHL), PsycINFO, and Scopus, and will focus on qualitative 
studies. Publications that have a focus on infant feeding in Canada, the USA, 
Australia and New Zealand, and the Indigenous caregiver experience from the 
caregiver perspective, will be included. We will conduct a grey literature 
search using Indigenous Studies Portal, country-specific browser searches, and 
known government, association, and community websites/reports. We will map 
themes and concepts of the publications, including study results and 
methodologies, to identify research gaps, future directions, challenges and best 
practices in this topic area.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval is not required for this review as no 
unpublished primary data will be included. The results of this review will be 
shared through peer-reviewed publications and conference presentations. This 
protocol is registered through the Open Science Framework (osf.io/4su79).

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-043476
PMCID: PMC7849871
PMID: 33514583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


752. J Clin Psychol Med Settings. 2021 Dec;28(4):728-733. doi: 
10.1007/s10880-021-09761-9. Epub 2021 Jan 29.

Exploring the Developmental Impact of Cystic Fibrosis on Lung Transplant 
Candidacy: Considerations for Adulthood.

Powell AL(1), Teh L(2), Patel A(1), Chernak Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Indiana University School of Medicine , IU Health 
Neurosciences Center, Goodman Hall 355 W. 16th St Suite 2800, Indianapolis, IN, 
460260, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Montefiore Medical Center 
and Elbert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, 10467, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Indiana University School of Medicine , IU Health 
Neurosciences Center, Goodman Hall 355 W. 16th St Suite 2800, Indianapolis, IN, 
460260, USA. ychernya@iupui.edu.

The average life expectancy for cystic fibrosis (CF) has increased over the past 
four decades resulting in a higher rate of adult CF patients. Adults seeking 
lung transplant to address CF-related advanced lung disease (ALD) represent a 
small, yet growing, subset of lung transplant recipients. Psychosocial factors 
such as adherence to medical recommendations, self-management of medical care, 
and caregiver support have been identified as positive prognostic factors in 
lung transplant outcomes. These factors are also implicated in the pediatric 
chronic illness literature and are crucial as patients begin to transition to a 
more autonomous and independent role in their own health management. Adults with 
CF facing ALD must navigate through another transitional phase as lung 
transplant requires additional supports and new expectations. A case series is 
used to highlight specific psychosocial considerations in this population and to 
explore the seemingly dichotomous relationship between independent 
self-management and caregiver support.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10880-021-09761-9
PMID: 33515128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Sci China Life Sci. 2021 Oct;64(10):1645-1660. doi:
10.1007/s11427-020-1838-2.  Epub 2021 Jan 28.

Distinct pathogenic mechanisms of various RARS1 mutations in 
Pelizaeus-Merzbacher-like disease.

Li G(1), Eriani G(2), Wang ED(3)(4), Zhou XL(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology, CAS Center for Excellence in 
Molecular Cell Science, Shanghai Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Shanghai, 200031, China.
(2)Architecture et Réactivité de l'ARN, UPR9002 CNRS, Institut de Biologie 
Moléculaire et Cellulaire, Université de Strasbourg, 67084, Strasbourg, France.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology, CAS Center for Excellence in 
Molecular Cell Science, Shanghai Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Shanghai, 200031, China. edwang@sibcb.ac.cn.
(4)School of Life Science and Technology, ShanghaiTech University, Shanghai, 
201210, China. edwang@sibcb.ac.cn.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology, CAS Center for Excellence in 
Molecular Cell Science, Shanghai Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Shanghai, 200031, China. xlzhou@sibcb.ac.cn.

Mutations of the genes encoding aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are highly associated 
with various central nervous system disorders. Recurrent mutations, including 
c.5A>G, p.D2G; c.1367C>T, p.S456L; c.1535G>A, p.R512Q and c.1846_1847del, p. 
Y616Lfs*6 of RARS1 gene, which encodes two forms of human cytoplasmic 
arginyl-tRNA synthetase (hArgRS), are linked to Pelizaeus-Merzbacher-like 
disease (PMLD) with unclear pathogenesis. Among these mutations, c.5A>G is the 
most extensively reported mutation, leading to a p.D2G mutation in the 
N-terminal extension of the long-form hArgRS. Here, we showed the detrimental 
effects of R512Q substitution and ΔC mutations on the structure and function of 
hArgRS, while the most frequent mutation c.5A>G, p.D2G acted in a different 
manner without impairing hArgRS activity. The nucleotide substitution c.5A>G 
reduced translation of hArgRS mRNA, and an upstream open reading frame 
contributed to the suppressed translation of the downstream main ORF. Taken 
together, our results elucidated distinct pathogenic mechanisms of various RARS1 
mutations in PMLD.

© 2021. Science China Press and Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer 
Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11427-020-1838-2
PMID: 33515434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Lancet. 2021 Jan 30;397(10272):398-408. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(20)32657-X.

Estimating the health impact of vaccination against ten pathogens in 98 
low-income and middle-income countries from 2000 to 2030: a modelling study.

Li X(1), Mukandavire C(1), Cucunubá ZM(1), Echeverria Londono S(1), Abbas K(2), 
Clapham HE(3), Jit M(4), Johnson HL(5), Papadopoulos T(6), Vynnycky E(7), 
Brisson M(8), Carter ED(9), Clark A(2), de Villiers MJ(1), Eilertson K(10), 
Ferrari MJ(11), Gamkrelidze I(12), Gaythorpe KAM(1), Grassly NC(1), Hallett 
TB(1), Hinsley W(1), Jackson ML(13), Jean K(14), Karachaliou A(15), Klepac P(2), 
Lessler J(16), Li X(17), Moore SM(18), Nayagam S(19), Nguyen DM(20), Razavi 
H(12), Razavi-Shearer D(12), Resch S(21), Sanderson C(2), Sweet S(21), Sy S(21), 
Tam Y(9), Tanvir H(2), Tran QM(22), Trotter CL(15), Truelove S(16), van 
Zandvoort K(2), Verguet S(23), Walker N(9), Winter A(16), Woodruff K(1), 
Ferguson NM(24), Garske T(1); Vaccine Impact Modelling Consortium.

Author information:
(1)MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis, Abdul Latif Jameel 
Institute for Disease and Emergency Analytics (J-IDEA), School of Public Health, 
Imperial College London, London, UK.
(2)London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine.
(3)Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore; Oxford University Clinical Research Unit, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam; 
Nuffield Department of Medicine, Oxford University, Oxford, UK.
(4)London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine; University of Hong Kong, Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region, China; Public Health England, London, UK.
(5)Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, Geneva, Switzerland.
(6)Public Health England, London, UK; University of Southampton, Southampton, 
UK.
(7)London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine; Public Health England, London, 
UK.
(8)Laval University, Quebec, QC, Canada.
(9)Department of International Health, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(10)Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO, USA.
(11)Pennsylvania State University, Pennsylvania, PA, USA.
(12)Center for Disease Analysis Foundation, Lafayette, CO, USA.
(13)Kaiser Permanente Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(14)MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis, Abdul Latif Jameel 
Institute for Disease and Emergency Analytics (J-IDEA), School of Public Health, 
Imperial College London, London, UK; Laboratoire MESuRS, Conservatoire National 
des Arts et Métiers, Paris, France; Unité PACRI, Institut Pasteur, Conservatoire 
National des Arts et Métiers, Paris, France.
(15)University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(16)Department of Epidemiology, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(17)Atlanta, GA, USA.
(18)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 
USA.
(19)MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis, Abdul Latif Jameel 
Institute for Disease and Emergency Analytics (J-IDEA), School of Public Health, 
Imperial College London, London, UK; Section of Hepatology and Gastroenterology, 
Department of Metabolism, Digestion and Reproduction, Imperial College London, 
London, UK.
(20)Oxford University Clinical Research Unit, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam; School 
of Computing, Dublin City University, Dublin, Ireland.
(21)Center for Health Decision Science, Harvard T H Chan School of Public 
Health, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(22)Oxford University Clinical Research Unit, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam; 
Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 
USA.
(23)Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard T H Chan School of 
Public Health, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(24)MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis, Abdul Latif Jameel 
Institute for Disease and Emergency Analytics (J-IDEA), School of Public Health, 
Imperial College London, London, UK. Electronic address: 
neil.ferguson@imperial.ac.uk.

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2021 Feb 20;397(10275):670.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2021 Jan 30;397(10272):351-353.
    Lancet. 2021 Jun 12;397(10291):2250.

BACKGROUND: The past two decades have seen expansion of childhood vaccination 
programmes in low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs). We quantify the 
health impact of these programmes by estimating the deaths and 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) averted by vaccination against ten 
pathogens in 98 LMICs between 2000 and 2030.
METHODS: 16 independent research groups provided model-based disease burden 
estimates under a range of vaccination coverage scenarios for ten pathogens: 
hepatitis B virus, Haemophilus influenzae type B, human papillomavirus, Japanese 
encephalitis, measles, Neisseria meningitidis serogroup A, Streptococcus 
pneumoniae, rotavirus, rubella, and yellow fever. Using standardised demographic 
data and vaccine coverage, the impact of vaccination programmes was determined 
by comparing model estimates from a no-vaccination counterfactual scenario with 
those from a reported and projected vaccination scenario. We present deaths and 
DALYs averted between 2000 and 2030 by calendar year and by annual birth cohort.
FINDINGS: We estimate that vaccination of the ten selected pathogens will have 
averted 69 million (95% credible interval 52-88) deaths between 2000 and 2030, 
of which 37 million (30-48) were averted between 2000 and 2019. From 2000 to 
2019, this represents a 45% (36-58) reduction in deaths compared with the 
counterfactual scenario of no vaccination. Most of this impact is concentrated 
in a reduction in mortality among children younger than 5 years (57% reduction 
[52-66]), most notably from measles. Over the lifetime of birth cohorts born 
between 2000 and 2030, we predict that 120 million (93-150) deaths will be 
averted by vaccination, of which 58 million (39-76) are due to measles 
vaccination and 38 million (25-52) are due to hepatitis B vaccination. We 
estimate that increases in vaccine coverage and introductions of additional 
vaccines will result in a 72% (59-81) reduction in lifetime mortality in the 
2019 birth cohort.
INTERPRETATION: Increases in vaccine coverage and the introduction of new 
vaccines into LMICs have had a major impact in reducing mortality. These public 
health gains are predicted to increase in coming decades if progress in 
increasing coverage is sustained.
FUNDING: Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(20)32657-X
PMCID: PMC7846814
PMID: 33516338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Am J Prev Med. 2021 Mar;60(3):360-368. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2020.10.022.
Epub  2021 Jan 27.

Potential Clinical and Economic Value of Norovirus Vaccination in the Community 
Setting.

Bartsch SM(1), O'Shea KJ(1), Wedlock PT(1), Ferguson MC(1), Siegmund SS(1), Lee 
BY(2).

Author information:
(1)Public Health Informatics, Computational, and Operations Research (PHICOR), 
Graduate School of Public Health and Health Policy, City University of New York, 
New York City, New York.
(2)Public Health Informatics, Computational, and Operations Research (PHICOR), 
Graduate School of Public Health and Health Policy, City University of New York, 
New York City, New York. Electronic address: bruceleemdmba@gmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: With norovirus vaccine candidates currently under development, now 
is the time to identify the vaccine characteristics and implementation 
thresholds at which vaccination becomes cost effective and cost saving in a 
community setting.
METHODS: In 2020, a norovirus transmission, clinical, and economics 
computational simulation model representing different U.S. population segments 
was developed to simulate the spread of norovirus and the potential impact of 
vaccinating children aged <5 years and older adults (aged ≥65 years).
RESULTS: Compared with no vaccination, vaccinating preschool-aged children 
averted 8%-72% of symptomatic norovirus cases in a community, whereas 
vaccinating older adults averted 2%-29% of symptomatic cases (varying with 
vaccine efficacy [25%-75%] and vaccination coverage [10%-80%]). Vaccination with 
a 25% vaccine efficacy was cost effective (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
≤$50,000 per quality-adjusted life year) when vaccination cost ≤$445 and cost 
saving at ≤$370 when vaccinating preschool-aged children and ≤$42 and ≤$30, 
respectively, when vaccinating older adults. With a 50% vaccine efficacy, 
vaccination was cost effective when it cost ≤$1,190 and cost saving at ≤$930 
when vaccinating preschool-aged children and ≤$110 and ≤$64, respectively, when 
vaccinating older adults. These cost thresholds (cost effective and cost saving, 
respectively) further increased with a 75% vaccine efficacy to ≤$1,600 and 
≤$1,300 for preschool-aged children and ≤$165 and ≤$100 for older adults.
CONCLUSIONS: This study outlines thresholds at which a norovirus vaccine would 
be cost effective and cost saving in the community when vaccinating children 
aged <5 years and older adults. Establishing these thresholds can help provide 
decision makers with targets to consider when developing and implementing a 
norovirus vaccine.

Copyright © 2020 American Journal of Preventive Medicine. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2020.10.022
PMCID: PMC8415104
PMID: 33516583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Prev Med. 2021 Apr;145:106440. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2021.106440. Epub 2021
Jan  28.

Diversity of social networks versus quality of social support: Which is more 
protective for health-related quality of life among older adults?

Rhee TG(1), Marottoli RA(2), Monin JK(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, School of Medicine, University of 
Connecticut, Farmington, CT, USA; Department of Psychiatry, Yale School of 
Medicine, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA. Electronic address: 
rhee@uchc.edu.
(2)Section of Geriatrics, Department of Internal Medicine, Yale School of 
Medicine, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA; Geriatrics and Extended Care, VA 
Connecticut Healthcare System, West Haven, CT, USA.
(3)Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Yale School of Public Health, 
Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA.

Both social networks and social support are important in addressing 
bio-psycho-social events in older adults. Their associations with health-related 
quality of life (HRQOL), however, are not well understood. This study aims to 
examine the associations of diversity of social networks and perceived quality 
of social support with HRQOL in older adults. We used data from 2012 to 2013 
National Epidemiological Survey on Alcohol and Related Conditions Wave III 
(NESARC-III), and included respondents aged 65 or older (n = 5799 unweighted). 
We used the Social Network Index (SNI) to measure diversity of social 
connections and the Interpersonal Support Evaluation List (ISEL-12) to measure 
perceived quality of social support. We also constructed HRQOL (mental component 
summary (MCS) and physical component summary (PCS)) and quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs). We characterized socio-demographic, behavioral, and clinical 
factors, and HRQOL and QALYs by type of social support. We also used 
multivariable-adjusted regression analyses to assess the associations of 
diversity of social networks and perceived quality of social support with HRQOL 
and QALYs, respectively. Older adults with greater diversity of social networks, 
regardless of perceived quality of social support, had higher mean scores in 
HRQOL domains, although effect sizes were small. In multivariable-adjusted 
analyses, diversity of social networks was positively associated with HRQOL-MCS 
(coefficient = 0.59; 95% confidence intervals [CI], 0.08-1.09), HRQOL-PCS 
(coefficient = 1.00; 95% CI, 0.38-1.61), and QALYs (coefficient = 0.01; 95% CI, 
0.00-0.02). Perceived quality of social support was not associated with HRQOL. 
The diversity of social networks, more than perceived quality of social support, 
may be protective for HRQOL in older adults.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2021.106440
PMCID: PMC8378099
PMID: 33516759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Each author 
completed and submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of 
Interest.


757. Radiother Oncol. 2021 Apr;157:114-121. doi: 10.1016/j.radonc.2021.01.015.
Epub  2021 Jan 28.

Unambiguous advanced radiologic extranodal extension determined by MRI predicts 
worse outcomes in nasopharyngeal carcinoma: Potential improvement for future 
editions of N category systems.

Mao Y(1), Wang S(1), Lydiatt W(2), Shah JP(3), Colevas AD(4), Lee AWM(5), 
O'Sullivan B(6), Guo R(1), Luo W(1), Chen Y(1), Tian L(7), Tang L(1), Sun Y(1), 
Liu L(7), Ren J(8), Ma J(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, State 
Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Collaborative Innovation Center for 
Cancer Medicine, Guangdong Key Laboratory of Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Diagnosis 
and Therapy, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, 
United States.
(3)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 
United States.
(4)Department of Medicine, Division of Medical Oncology, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, United States.
(5)Department of Clinical Oncology, The University of Hong Kong and the 
University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital, Hong Kong, China.
(6)Department of Radiation Oncology, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University 
of Toronto, Canada.
(7)Imaging Diagnosis and Interventional Center, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer 
Center, State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Collaborative 
Innovation Center for Cancer Medicine, Guangdong Key Laboratory of 
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Diagnosis and Therapy, Guangzhou, China.
(8)School of Life Sciences, Cancer Center, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 
China.
(9)Department of Radiation Oncology, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, State 
Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Collaborative Innovation Center for 
Cancer Medicine, Guangdong Key Laboratory of Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Diagnosis 
and Therapy, Guangzhou, China. Electronic address: majun2@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: To explore the prognostic value of different radiologic 
extranodal extension (rENE) grades and their potential improvement for the 8th 
edition N category in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: From 2009 to 2013, a cohort of 1887 patients with NPC was 
retrospectively enrolled and randomized to the training (n = 955) and validation 
(n = 932) groups. rENE was categorized as follows: grade 0, nodes without rENE; 
grade 1, nodes with rENE infiltrating the surrounding fat only; grade 2, matted 
nodes; grade 3, nodes with rENE infiltrating adjacent structures.
RESULTS: The percentage of patients with MRI-positive cervical nodes was 66.5% 
(1254/1887), of whom grade 0, 1, 2 and 3 rENE cases accounted for 33.2% 
(416/1254), 14.9% (187/1254), 36.5% (458/1254) and 15.4% (193/1254), 
respectively. The kappa coefficients for the inter-rater and intra-rater 
assessments were 0.63, 0.51, 0.65 and 0.93, and 0.76, 0.69, 0.72 and 1.0 in 
grade 0, 1, 2 and 3 rENE, respectively. Grade 3 rENE rather than grades 0-2 rENE 
was an independent unfavorable predictor of overall survival and disease-free 
survival (P < 0.001). Recursive partitioning analysis was applied to refine the 
N category: eN0 (N0), eN1 (N1 without grade 3), eN2 (N2 without grade 3), and 
eN3 (N1/N2 with grade 3, N3). Compared to the current system, the proposed N 
category performed better in hazard consistency, hazard discrimination, sample 
size balance and outcome prediction.
CONCLUSION: Grade 3 rENE was an independent unfavorable indicator of NPC. 
Upstaging patients in N1-2 with grade 3 rENE to N3 led to a superior prognostic 
performance.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.radonc.2021.01.015
PMID: 33516790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


758. Orv Hetil. 2021 Jan 31;162(5):177-184. doi: 10.1556/650.2021.31988.

[Short- and long-term prognostic significance of previous recanalization 
interventions in patients treated for myocardial infarction].

[Article in Hungarian]

Jánosi A(1), Ferenci T(2)(3), Komócsi A(4), Andréka P(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Gottsegen György Országos Kardiovaszkuláris Intézet, Nemzeti Szívinfarktus 
Regiszter, Budapest, Haller u 29., 1096.
(2)2 Óbudai Egyetem, Élettani Szabályozások Kutatóközpont, Budapest.
(3)3 Budapesti Corvinus Egyetem, Statisztikai Tanszék, Budapest.
(4)4 Pécsi Tudományegyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar, Szívgyógyászati 
Klinika, Pécs.

Összefoglaló. Bevezetés: A szívinfarktust megelőző revascularisatiós 
beavatkozások prognosztikai jelentőségével kapcsolatban kevés elemzés ismeretes, 
hazai adatokat eddig nem közöltek. Célkitűzés: A szerzők a Nemzeti Szívinfarktus 
Regiszter adatait felhasználva elemezték a koszorúér-revascularisatiós 
szívműtétet (CABG) túlélt betegek prognózisát heveny szívinfarktusban. Módszer: 
Az adatbázisban 2014. 01. 01. és 2017. 12. 31. között 55 599 beteg klinikai és 
kezelési adatait rögzítették: 23 437 betegnél (42,2%) ST-elevációval járó 
infarktus (STEMI), 32 162 betegnél (57,8%) ST-elevációval nem járó infarktus 
(NSTEMI) miatt került sor a kórházi kezelésre. Vizsgáltuk a CABG után fellépő 
infarktus miatt kezelt betegek klinikai adatait és prognózisát, amelyeket azon 
betegek adataival hasonlítottunk össze, akiknél nem szerepelt szívműtét a 
kórelőzményben (kontrollcsoport). Eredmények: A betegek többsége mindkét 
infarktustípusban férfi volt (62%, illetve 59%). Az indexinfarktust megelőzően a 
betegek 5,33%-ánál (n = 2965) történt CABG, amely az NSTEMI-betegeknél volt 
gyakoribb (n = 2357; 7,3%). A CABG-csoportba tartozó betegek idősebbek voltak, 
esetükben több társbetegséget (magas vérnyomás, diabetes mellitus, perifériás 
érbetegség) rögzítettek. Az indexinfarktus esetén a katéteres 
koszorúér-intervenció a kontrollcsoport STEMI-betegeiben gyakoribb volt a 
CABG-csoporthoz viszonyítva (84% vs. 71%). Az utánkövetés 12 hónapja során a 
betegek 4,7-12,2%-ában újabb infarktus, 13,7-17,3%-ában újabb katéteres 
koszorúér-intervenció történt. Az utánkövetés alatt a CABG-csoportban 
magasabbnak találtuk a halálozást. A halálozást befolyásoló tényezők hatásának 
korrigálására Cox-féle regressziós analízist, illetve 'propensity score 
matching' módszert alkalmaztunk. Mindkét módszerrel történt elemzés azt mutatta, 
hogy a kórelőzményben szereplő koszorúér-revascularisatiós műtét nem 
befolyásolta a túlélést. Amennyiben a beteg kórelőzményében szerepelt a 
koszorúérműtét, az indexinfarktus nagyobb eséllyel volt NSTEMI, mint STEMI (HR: 
1,612; CI 1,464-1,774; p<0,001). Következtetés: A kórelőzményben szereplő 
koszorúér-revascularisatiós műtét nem befolyásolta a szívinfarktus miatt kezelt 
betegek életkilátásait. Orv Hetil. 2021; 162(5): 177-184.
INTRODUCTION: Little analysis is known about the prognostic significance of 
revascularization interventions before myocardial infarction; no domestic data 
have been reported so far.
METHOD: The authors use data from the Hungarian Myocardial Infarction Registry 
to analyze the prognosis of patients with acute myocardial infarction who had 
previous coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). Between 01. 01. 2014. and 31. 
12. 2017, 55 599 patients were recorded in the Registry: 23 437 patients (42.2%) 
had ST-elevation infarction (STEMI) and 31 162 patients (57.8%) had 
non-ST-elevation infarction (NSTEMI). The clinical data and prognosis of 
patients treated for infarction after CABG were compared with those of patients 
without a CABG history.
RESULTS: The majority of patients were male (59% and 60%, respectively). Prior 
to index infarction, CABG occurred in 5.33% of patients (n = 2965), which was 
more common in NSTEMI (n = 2357; 7.3%). The CABG patients were older and had 
more comorbidities (hypertension, diabetes mellitus, peripheral vascular 
disease). For index infarction, percutaneous coronary intervention was more 
common in STEMI patients in the control group compared to CABG (84% vs. 71%). At 
12 months of follow-up, 4.7-12.2% of patients had reinfarction, and 13.7-17.3% 
had another percutaneous coronary intervention. During the full follow-up, the 
CABG group had higher mortality. Cox regression analysis and propensity score 
matching were used to correct for the effect of other factors influencing 
mortality. Both analyses showed CABG did not affect survival. In the CABG group, 
the index infarction was more likely to be NSTEMI than STEMI (HR: 1.612; CI 
1.464-1.774; p<0.001).
CONCLUSION: The history of CABG does not affect the life expectancy of patients 
treated for an acute myocardial infarction. Orv Hetil. 2021; 162(5): 177-184.

DOI: 10.1556/650.2021.31988
PMID: 33517331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Acta Diabetol. 2021 Jun;58(6):707-722. doi: 10.1007/s00592-021-01672-3. Epub
 2021 Jan 30.

Targeting of the diabetes prevention program leads to substantial benefits when 
capacity is constrained.

Olchanski N(1), van Klaveren D(2), Cohen JT(2), Wong JB(2)(3), Ruthazer R(2), 
Kent DM(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical 
Center, 800 Washington Street #63, Boston, MA, 02111, USA. 
nolchanski@tuftsmedicalcenter.org.
(2)Institute for Clinical Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical 
Center, 800 Washington Street #63, Boston, MA, 02111, USA.
(3)Division of Clinical Decision Making, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Approximately 84 million people in the USA have pre-diabetes, but 
only a fraction of them receive proven effective therapies to prevent type 2 
diabetes. We estimated the value of prioritizing individuals at highest risk of 
progression to diabetes for treatment, compared to non-targeted treatment of 
individuals meeting inclusion criteria for the Diabetes Prevention Program 
(DPP).
METHODS: Using microsimulation to project outcomes in the DPP trial population, 
we compared two interventions to usual care: (1) lifestyle modification and (2) 
metformin administration. For each intervention, we compared targeted and 
non-targeted strategies, assuming either limited or unlimited program capacity. 
We modeled the individualized risk of developing diabetes and projected diabetic 
outcomes to yield lifetime costs and quality-adjusted life expectancy, from 
which we estimated net monetary benefits (NMB) for both lifestyle and metformin 
versus usual care.
RESULTS: Compared to usual care, lifestyle modification conferred positive 
benefits and reduced lifetime costs for all eligible individuals. Metformin's 
NMB was negative for the lowest population risk quintile. By avoiding use when 
costs outweighed benefits, targeted administration of metformin conferred a 
benefit of $500 per person. If only 20% of the population could receive 
treatment, when prioritizing individuals based on diabetes risk, rather than 
treating a 20% random sample, the difference in NMB ranged from $14,000 to 
$20,000 per person.
CONCLUSIONS: Targeting active diabetes prevention to patients at highest risk 
could improve health outcomes and reduce costs compared to providing the same 
intervention to a similar number of patients with pre-diabetes without targeted 
selection.

DOI: 10.1007/s00592-021-01672-3
PMCID: PMC8276501
PMID: 33517494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None.

