CONCLUSIONS: Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that mLVs are 
involved in the neuro-immune response after TBI. We also defined the resident 
memory CD8+ T cells as one of the main population activated within the brain 
after a traumatic injury.

Copyright © 2021 Wojciechowski, Virenque, Vihma, Galbardi, Rooney, Keuters, 
Antila, Koistinaho and Noe.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.559810
PMCID: PMC7873607
PMID: 33584640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


968. Orthop Rev (Pavia). 2021 Jan 28;12(4):8822. doi: 10.4081/or.2020.8822. 
eCollection 2020 Dec 31.

Comparison of prognostic scales for patients with metastatic spine disease.

Denisov AA(1), Zaborovsky NS(1), Ptashnikov DA(1)(2), Mikhailov DA(1), Masevnin 
SV(1), Smekalenkov OA(1).

Author information:
(1)National Medical Research Center of Traumatology and Orthopedics n.a. Vreden 
R.R., St. Petersburg.
(2)Mechnikov North-Western State Medical University, St. Petersburg, Russian 
Federation.

This is one-centre retrospective study with the aim to identify the scale, which 
provides the most accurate prediction of life expectancy in patients with 
metastatic lesions in spine. A retrospective analysis of clinical data of 138 
patients with metastatic spinal tumors. Patients underwent spinal cord 
decompression and instrumented stabilization of affected area. We evaluated the 
general condition according to the Karnofsky and ECOG scales, the presence of 
metastases in the visceral organs, spine and other bones, the neurological 
status and conduction of the medical therapy before spinal surgery. Observed 
clinical parameters were converted to Tokuhashi, Tomita, and Katagiri scales. 
For statistical analysis, software environment R 3.4.1 was used. Assessment of 
prognostic accuracy was performed using ROC analysis. The Tokuhashi scale showed 
AUC 0.605 (95% CI 0.586-0.616), Tomita scale showed AUC 0.708 (95% CI 
0.573-0.842), Katagiri scale showed AUC 0.650 (95% CI 0.508-0.792). The best 
results for survival rate predicting after surgical treatment for metastatic 
spinal lesions were shown the Tomita scale.

©Copyright: the Author(s).

DOI: 10.4081/or.2020.8822
PMCID: PMC7874951
PMID: 33585023

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


969. Biophys Physicobiol. 2020 Dec 26;17:161-176. doi: 
10.2142/biophysico.BSJ-2020008. eCollection 2020.

GA-guided mD-VcMD: A genetic-algorithm-guided method for multi-dimensional 
virtual-system coupled molecular dynamics.

Higo J(1), Kusaka A(2), Kasahara K(3), Kamiya N(1), Hayato I(4), Qilin X(5), 
Takahashi T(3), Fukuda I(1), Mori K(1)(6), Hata Y(1), Fukunishi Y(7).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Simulation Studies, University of Hyogo, Kobe, Hyogo 
650-0047, Japan.
(2)Institute for Protein Research, Osaka University, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, 
Japan.
(3)College of Life Sciences, Ritsumeikan University, Kusatsu, Shiga 525-8577, 
Japan.
(4)Graduate School of Life Sciences, Ritsumeikan University, Kusatsu, Shiga 
525-8577, Japan.
(5)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Ritsumeikan University, Kusatsu, Shiga 
525-8577, Japan.
(6)National Institute of Technology, Maizuru College, Maizuru, Kyoto 625-8511, 
Japan.
(7)Cellular and Molecular Biotechnology Research Institute, National Institute 
of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), Koto-ku, Tokyo, 135-0064, 
Japan.

We introduced a conformational sampling method in an earlier report: The 
multi-dimensional virtual-system coupled molecular dynamics (mD-VcMD) enhances 
conformational sampling of a biomolecular system by computer simulations. 
Herein, new sampling method, a subzone-based mD-VcMD, is presented as an 
extension of mD-VcMD. Then, the subzone-based method is extended further using a 
genetic algorithm (GA) named the GA-guided mD-VcMD. In these methods, iterative 
simulation runs are performed to increase the sampled region gradually. The new 
methods have the following benefits: (1) They are free from a production run: 
i.e., all snapshots from all iterations are useful for analyses. (2) They are 
free from fine tuning of a weight function (probability distribution function or 
potential of mean force). (3) A canonical ensemble (i.e., a thermally 
equilibrated ensemble) is generated from a simple procedure. A thermodynamic 
weight is assigned to each snapshot. (4) Selective sampling can be performed for 
particularly addressing a poorly sampled region without breaking the proportion 
of the canonical ensemble if the poorly sampled conformational region emerges in 
sampling. By applying the methods to a simple system that involves an energy 
barrier between potential-energy minima, we demonstrated that the new methods 
have considerably higher sampling efficiency than the original mD-VcMD does.

2020 THE BIOPHYSICAL SOCIETY OF JAPAN.

DOI: 10.2142/biophysico.BSJ-2020008
PMCID: PMC7840461
PMID: 33585149


970. Childs Nerv Syst. 2021 Jul;37(7):2279-2287. doi: 10.1007/s00381-021-05079-x.
 Epub 2021 Feb 14.

Surgical pathway proposal for severe paralytic scoliosis in adolescents with 
myelomeningocele.

Giorgi PD(1), Schirò GR(2), Capitani P(1), D'Aliberti GA(3), Talamonti G(3).

Author information:
(1)Orthopedics and Traumatology Unit, Emergency and Urgency Department, A.S.S.T. 
Grande Ospedale Metropolitano Niguarda, Piazza dell'Ospedale Maggiore 3, Milan, 
Italy.
(2)Orthopedics and Traumatology Unit, Emergency and Urgency Department, A.S.S.T. 
Grande Ospedale Metropolitano Niguarda, Piazza dell'Ospedale Maggiore 3, Milan, 
Italy. giusepper.schiro@gmail.com.
(3)Neurosurgery Unit, Emergency and Urgency Department, A.S.S.T. Grande Ospedale 
Metropolitano Niguarda, Milan, Italy.

PURPOSE: The increased life expectancy of patients with myelomeningocele led to 
the necessity of new management for addressing complex spine deformities with 
severe pelvic obliquity. Tethered cord release (TCR) and spinal fusion were 
described as treatment options. However, nowadays, the surgical strategy is not 
well defined and high rates of mechanical failures and complications are 
reported. Our aim was to propose a new two-stage surgical pathway to treat a 
selected group of severe myelomeningocele scoliosis.
METHODS: This is a retrospective series of myelomeningocele scoliosis in 
paralytic adolescent patients treated with concurrent TCR and posterior spinal 
fusion (PSF), followed by delayed anterior fusion (ASF) through minimally 
invasive lateral approach. Inclusion criteria were as follows: evolutive 
scoliosis in tethered cord syndrome and paraplegia, main curve >70°, pelvic 
obliquity >20°, and age between 10 and 18 years. Clinical, surgical, and 
radiographic parameters were evaluated preoperatively and at a mean follow-up 
(FU) of 2.8 years.
RESULTS: Six patients out of 58 met the inclusion criteria and were included in 
the study (mean age 12.3 years old). The mean curve and pelvic obliquity 
correction were 68.8% and 82%, respectively. No loss of correction was recorded 
at FU. One case of cerebrospinal fluid leakage requiring revision surgery was 
recorded.
CONCLUSION: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study proposing a 
two-stage surgical pathway for severe MMC spinopelvic deformity treatment. 
Concurrent TCR and PSF with delayed minimally invasive ASF permitted to minimize 
complications providing good fusion rates without loss of correction and implant 
failure.

DOI: 10.1007/s00381-021-05079-x
PMID: 33585957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Bioessays. 2021 Sep;43(9):e2000299. doi: 10.1002/bies.202000299. Epub 2021
Feb  15.

Evaluation of 92 cardiovascular proteins in dried blood spots collected under 
field-conditions: Off-the-shelf affinity-based multiplexed assays work well, 
allowing for simplified sample collection.

Broberg K(1), Svensson J(2), Grahn K(1), Assarsson E(3), Åberg M(2), Selander 
J(1), Enroth S(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Environmental Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(2)Department of Medical Sciences, Clinical Chemistry, Science for Life 
Laboratory (SciLifeLab) Uppsala, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(3)Division of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, Lund University, Lund, 
Sweden.
(4)Department of Immunology, Genetics, and Pathology, Biomedical Center, Science 
for Life Laboratory (SciLifeLab) Uppsala, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.

Workplace-collected blood spots deposited on filter paper were analysed with 
multiplexed affinity-based protein assays and found to be suitable for 
proteomics analysis. The protein extension assay (PEA) was used to characterize 
92 proteins using 1.2 mm punches in repeated samples collected from 20 workers. 
Overall, 97.8% of the samples and 91.3% of the analysed proteins passed quality 
control. Both within and between spot correlations using six replicates from the 
same individual were above 0.99, suggesting that comparable levels are obtained 
from multiple punches from the same spot and from consecutive spots. Protein 
levels from dried blood and wet serum from the same individuals were compared 
and the majority of the analysed proteins were found to be significantly 
correlated. These results open up for simplified sample collection of blood in 
field conditions for proteomic analysis, but also highlight that not all 
proteins can be robustly measured from dried whole blood.

© 2021 The Authors. BioEssays published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/bies.202000299
PMID: 33586222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Cancer Med. 2021 Mar;10(5):1889-1899. doi: 10.1002/cam4.3775. Epub 2021 Feb
14.

Changing trends in the disease burden of esophageal cancer in China from 1990 to 
2017 and its predicted level in 25 years.

Li S(1)(2), Chen H(1)(3), Man J(4), Zhang T(4), Yin X(4), He Q(4), Yang 
X(1)(2)(3), Lu M(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, Jinan, 
China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Qilu Hospital, Cheeloo College of Medicine, 
Shandong University, Jinan, China.
(3)Clinical Research Center of Shandong University, Qilu Hospital, Cheeloo 
College of Medicine, Shandong University, Jinan, China.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of Public Health, 
Cheeloo College of Medicine, Shandong University, Jinan, China.

BACKGROUND: Nearly half of the cases of esophageal cancer in the world were in 
China, but the corresponding burden in China has not been estimated for the past 
decades or for the near future.
METHODS: Data on the incidence, mortality, and disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs) rates owing to esophageal cancer in China from 1990 to 2017 were 
extracted from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017. To reflect the trend in 
the disease burden, we calculated the estimated annual percentage change (EAPC) 
in the age-standardized rates of these three outcomes in China from 1990 to 
2017.
RESULTS: The age-standardized incidence rate (ASIR) for esophageal cancer 
decreased from 19.38/100,000 in 1990 to 12.23/100,000 in 2017, with an EAPC of 
-2.53 (95%CI: -2.90, -2.16), but the number of cases of esophageal cancer 
increased from 164,473 to 234,624. The age-standardized rates of esophageal 
cancer in females were always lower than they were in males during the study 
period, and there was a downward trend that was more pronounced among females 
than males. The most common risk factors for males were smoking and alcohol 
consumption, while the most common risk factors for females were a diet low in 
fruits and a high body mass index (BMI). New cases of, and deaths from 
esophageal cancer are predicted to increase by about 1.5 times in the coming 
25 years.
CONCLUSION: Although the age-standardized burden of esophageal cancer has been 
declining, the number of new cases of, and deaths from esophageal cancer have 
increased in China over the past 30 years, and they will continue to increase in 
the near future. Hence, national policies should be adopted to promote the 
prevention and management of known risk factors for it, especially smoking and 
excessive caloric intake.

© 2021 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.3775
PMCID: PMC7940228
PMID: 33586344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors state that the study was conducted 
without any commercial or financial relationships, which may be interpreted as 
potential conflicts of interest.


973. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2021 May;27(5):615-624. doi:
10.18553/jmcp.2021.20424.  Epub 2021 Feb 15.

Cost-effectiveness of obinutuzumab versus rituximab biosimilars for previously 
untreated follicular lymphoma.

Spencer SJ(1), Guzauskas GF(2), FeLizzi F(3), Launonen A(3), Dawson K(4), 
Veenstra DL(2), Masaquel A(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Washington Institute for Public Health Genetics, Seattle.
(2)University of Washington Department of Pharmacy, Seattle.
(3)F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Basel, Switzerland.
(4)Genentech, South San Francisco, CA.

BACKGROUND: In the randomized phase 3 GALLIUM trial, first-line treatment with 
obinutuzumab (GA101; G) plus chemotherapy (G + chemo) resulted in superior 
progression-free survival (PFS) compared with rituximab plus chemotherapy (R + 
chemo) for patients with follicular lymphoma (FL). G + chemo was found to be 
cost-effective when compared with R + chemo (incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio [ICER] of approximately $2,300 per quality-adjusted life-year [QALY] 
gained). Two rituximab biosimilars, rituximab-abbs (Ra) and rituximab-pvvr (Rp), 
have been approved by the FDA for use in this setting. However, the 
cost-effectiveness of G + chemo versus Ra + chemo and Rp + chemo has not yet 
been estimated. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of G + chemo 
versus Ra + chemo and Rp + chemo in the first-line treatment of FL. METHODS: We 
adapted an existing Markov model that compared G + chemo with R + chemo, using 
investigator-assessed PFS and postprogression survival data from the GALLIUM 
trial to model overall survival. All patients in the study received induction 
chemoimmunotherapy with either G + chemo or R + chemo, with responders then 
receiving obinutuzumab or rituximab maintenance therapy for 2 years or until 
disease progression. We assumed that the efficacy and safety of the rituximab 
biosimilars plus chemotherapy were the same as the R + chemo arm of the GALLIUM 
study. Drug utilization and treatment duration were also derived from GALLIUM. 
Health care costs were based on Medicare reimbursements, and drug costs were 
average sale prices for intravenous therapies or wholesale acquisition costs for 
oral therapies used after progression. Utility estimates were based on the 
GALLIUM trial data and published literature. Sensitivity analyses were conducted 
to assess the key drivers of the model and uncertainty in the results. Results: 
Treatment with G + chemo led to an increase of 0.93 QALYs relative to rituximab 
biosimilars plus chemotherapy (95% credible range [CR] = 0.36-1.46). The total 
cost of G + chemo was $191,317, whereas the total costs of Ra + chemo and Rp + 
chemo were $164,340 (Δ14.1%) and $169,755 (Δ11.3%), respectively, with G + chemo 
resulting in incremental costs of $26,978 (95% CR = $19,781-$33,119) and $21,562 
(95% CR = $14,473-$28,389), respectively. The incremental total drug and 
administration costs were $32,678 (Δ25.4%) and $27,263 (Δ21.2%) for G + chemo 
versus Ra + chemo and G + chemo versus Rp + chemo, respectively. There were cost 
savings of $7,050 (Δ-12.4%) related to disease progression for G + chemo 
($56,727) compared with Ra + chemo and Rp + chemo ($63,777). ICERs were $28,879 
and $23,082 per QALY gained for G + chemo versus Ra + chemo and Rp + chemo, 
respectively. In probabilistic sensitivity analyses, G + chemo was 
cost-effective at the $50,000 and $100,000 per QALY thresholds versus both Ra + 
chemo (88% and 98% probabilities of cost-effectiveness, respectively) and Rp + 
chemo (93% and 98%, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: G + chemo is projected to be 
cost-effective versus rituximab biosimilars plus chemotherapy in the United 
States as first-line treatment for FL, driven by increased QALYs for G + chemo 
and cost savings from delayed disease progression. DISCLOSURES: This study was 
funded by Genentech, a member of the Roche Group. The study sponsor was involved 
in study design, data interpretation, and writing of the report. All authors 
approved the decision to submit the report for publication. Spencer and 
Guzauskas report fees from Genentech during the conduct of the study. Felizzi 
was employed by F. Hoffmann-La Roche at the time this study was conducted; 
Launonen is an employees of F. Hoffmann-La Roche. Felizzi and Launonen 
previously had share ownership in Novartis. Dawson and Masaquel are employees of 
Genentech, and they have stock options in F. Hoffmann-La Roche. Veenstra reports 
fees from Genentech, during the conduct of this study and outside of the 
submitted work. This work was presented, in part, at the AACR Virtual Meeting 
Advances in Malignant Lymphoma meeting (virtual; August 17-19, 2020) and the 
SOHO annual meeting (virtual; September 9-12, 2020).

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2021.20424
PMCID: PMC10394221
PMID: 33586513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: This study was funded by Genentech, a member of 
the Roche Group. The study sponsor was involved in study design, data 
interpretation, and writing of the report. All authors approved the decision to 
submit the report for publication. Spencer and Guzauskas report fees from 
Genentech during the conduct of the study. Felizzi was employed by F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche at the time this study was conducted; Launonen is an employees 
of F. Hoffmann-La Roche. Felizzi and Launonen previously had share ownership in 
Novartis. Dawson and Masaquel are employees of Genentech, and they have stock 
options in F. Hoffmann-La Roche. Veenstra reports fees from Genentech, during 
the conduct of this study and outside of the submitted work. This work was 
presented, in part, at the AACR Virtual Meeting Advances in Malignant Lymphoma 
meeting (virtual; August 17-19, 2020) and the SOHO annual meeting (virtual; 
September 9-12, 2020).


974. Soc Stud Sci. 2021 Aug;51(4):512-537. doi: 10.1177/0306312721992541. Epub
2021  Feb 14.

The ecobiopolitics of environmental mitigation: Remaking fish habitat through 
the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project.

Carse A(1).

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA.

Environmental mitigation has become a catch-all term for efforts to avoid, 
minimize or compensate for the adverse impacts of development. Through an 
analysis of the expensive and complex plan developed to mitigate the anticipated 
impacts of deepening Savannah Harbor, I develop an ecobiopolitical approach to 
mitigation. Environmental mitigation is triage, involving difficult choices 
about which entities are worthy of concern and, thus, candidates for 
intervention - and, by extension, which are not. It involves decisions about 
which among the chosen deserve strict protection and which merit looser forms of 
care. As these processes move to center stage in twenty-first-century governance 
and politics, it has become important to understand what kinds of environments 
mitigation generates. What survives? What dies? What flourishes? This article 
focuses on initiatives designed to maintain minimally suitable conditions for 
non-human life. Insomuch as the object of habitat mitigation is the animal 
milieu, rather than the body or population, it can be understood as a form of 
ecobiopolitics. By contrasting the projected fates of three fish in the 
post-mitigation ecology of the Savannah River, I argue that the ecobiopolitics 
of habitat mitigation can be conceptualized at four registers. The first, 
comparity, highlights the value-laden processes through which some entities 
become candidates for mitigation and others do not. The second, hierarchy, 
underscores how candidates for mitigation are ranked in ways that shape the 
interventions pursued. The third, nonfungibility, foregrounds how problems of 
commensuration are negotiated in mitigation practice. The fourth, overflow, 
emphasizes how mitigation aimed at one entity can lead to other ecological 
changes.

DOI: 10.1177/0306312721992541
PMID: 33586522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. J Microencapsul. 2021 Jun;38(4):249-261. doi: 10.1080/02652048.2021.1889059.
 Epub 2021 Mar 14.

Polymeric microparticle systems for modified release of glucagon-like-peptide-1 
receptor agonists.

Icart LP(1)(2), Souza FG Jr(2), Lima LMTR(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Biotechnology Laboratory (pbiotech), Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Biopolymers and Sensors (LaBioS), Institute of Macromolecules, 
Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory for Macromolecules (LAMAC-DIMAV), Brazilian National Institute of 
Metrology, Quality and Technology, Duque de Caxias, Brazil.

Type 2 diabetes is a fast-growing worldwide epidemic. Despite the multiple 
therapies available to treat type 2 diabetes, the disease is not correctly 
managed in over half of patients, mainly due to non-compliance with prescribed 
treatment regimes. The development of analogues to the glucagon-like peptide 1 
(GLP-1) has resulted in the extension of its half-life and associated benefits. 
Further benefits in the use of peptide-based GLP-1 receptor agonists have been 
achieved by the use of controlled-release systems based on polymeric 
microparticles. In this review, we focus on commercially available formulations 
and others that remain in development, discussing the preparation methods and 
the relationship between in vitro and in vivo kinetic release behaviours.

DOI: 10.1080/02652048.2021.1889059
PMID: 33586588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Sports Biomech. 2021 Feb 14:1-14. doi: 10.1080/14763141.2020.1864015. Online
 ahead of print.

Investigation of normal knees kinematics in walking and running at different 
speeds using a portable motion analysis system.

Liu R(1)(2)(3), Qian D(1)(2), Chen Y(1)(2), Zou J(1)(2), Zheng S(1)(2), Bai 
B(1)(2), Lin Z(2)(4), Zhang Y(2)(4), Chen Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou 
Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Orthopaedic Technology and Implant Materials, 
Guangzhou, China.
(3)Institute of Orthopaedic Diseases, Jinan University, Guangzhou, China.
(4)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Guangzhou General Hospital of Guangzhou 
Military Command, Guangzhou, China.

Walking and running at different speeds are common in daily life. This study 
investigated 6 degrees of freedom (DOF) kinematics of normal knees of Chinese 
during walking and running. Forty healthy participants were investigated in 4 
conditions: comfortable walking, normal walking, slow running and ordinary 
running. The range of motion (ROM) and peak values in 6 DOF kinematics were 
analysed. As the speed increased, a general increase in flexion, lateral and 
proximal translations occurred. Significant increases of ROM in 
flexion/extension, axial rotation and medial/lateral translations were observed. 
The ROM of adduction/abduction, anterior/posterior and proximal/distal 
translations were greatest during normal walking. The maximum and minimum 
flexion/extension, maximum internal rotation and tibial lateral translations 
increased with the increase of speed. The maximum and minimum tibial proximal 
translations in running were found being greater than walking. A phenomenon 
between walking and running was observed: both tibial proximal/distal and 
medial/lateral translations increased when changed from walking to running. 
Non-linear transition exists in 6 DOF kinematics during walking to running. 
Discoveries in this study may have potential clinical values to serve as 
references of normal walking and running in the management of knee injury and 
knee rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1080/14763141.2020.1864015
PMID: 33586617


977. Environ Monit Assess. 2021 Feb 15;193(3):130. doi:
10.1007/s10661-021-08890-w.

Capturing urban heat island formation in a subtropical city of China based on 
Landsat images: implications for sustainable urban development.

Zhang X(1), Estoque RC(2), Murayama Y(3), Ranagalage M(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Ecological Civilization, Jiangxi University of Finance and 
Economics, Nanchang, 330013, China. zhangxm1217@yahoo.com.
(2)Center for Climate Change Adaptation, National Institute for Environmental 
Studies, 16-2 Onogawa, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, 305-8506, Japan.
(3)Faculty of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 
Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, 305-8572, Japan.
(4)Faculty of Social Sciences and Humanities, Rajarata University of Sri Lanka, 
Mihintale, 50300, Sri Lanka.

Land use/cover change is the main driving force of urban expansion which 
influences human-environment interactions. Generally, the formation of urban 
heat islands (UHIs) can be referred to as a negative "by-product" of 
urbanization. In the context of rapid urbanization, the present paper aims to 
capture the landscape changes and three patterns of urban expansion (i.e., 
infill, extension, and leapfrog), and provide a better understanding of the 
formation of the surface urban heat island (SUHI) in Dongguan, China, during the 
past 20+ years. Urban land increased from 28.87 × 103 ha in 1994 to 78.89 × 103 
ha in 2005 and 101.05 × 103 ha in 2015, with a compound annual urban growth rate 
of 9.57% (1994-2005) and 2.51% (2005-2015), respectively. Based on the mean land 
surface temperature difference (Δ mean LST) between urban land (UL) and green 
space (GS), the SUHI intensity (SUHII) increased from 1.46 °C in 1994 to 2.32 °C 
in 2005 and 3.83 °C in 2015 in Dongguan. Overall, the Δ mean LST of urban areas 
increased from 2.61 °C (1994-2005) to 4.78 °C (2005-2015). The Δ mean LST 
between the city center and its surrounding areas decreased from 1994 to 2015, 
and the Δ mean LST between the city center and the suburbs gradually increased, 
primarily in 2015. In particular, both dense urban and the infill pattern of 
urban expansion had high mean LSTs in Dongguan, thus having negative impacts on 
sustainable urban development. The limited green space and open land should be 
strictly controlled or prohibited for transformation in urban areas. 
Particularly in dense regions, green roofs, green areas, and urban renewal 
actions could be considered for mitigating the urban heat island effect.

DOI: 10.1007/s10661-021-08890-w
PMID: 33587190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Am Fam Physician. 2021 Feb 15;103(4):219-226.

Frailty: Evaluation and Management.

Allison R 2nd(1), Assadzandi S(1), Adelman M(1).

Author information:
(1)West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV, USA.

Frailty, which is a geriatric syndrome that affects 5% to 17% of older adults, 
is a state of increased vulnerability across multiple health domains that leads 
to adverse health outcomes. Frail older adults are at increased risk of falls, 
disability, hospitalizations, and death. Frailty may initially be overlooked or 
incorrectly identified as part of the normal aging process because of the 
variable nature of the presentation and diagnosis. Symptoms include generalized 
weakness, exhaustion, slow gait, poor balance, decreased physical activity, 
cognitive impairment, and weight loss. There is no current recommendation for 
routine screening. A comprehensive geriatric assessment can identify risk 
factors and symptoms that suggest frailty. Several validated frailty assessment 
tools can evaluate a patient for frailty. Patients are diagnosed as not-frail, 
prefrail, or frail. Patients with a larger number of frail attributes are at 
higher risk of poor outcomes. The management of frail patients must be 
individualized and tailored to each patient's goals of care and life expectancy. 
Physical activity and balance exercises may be suitable for patients who are 
less frail. Palliative care and symptom control may be appropriate for those who 
are more frail.

PMID: 33587574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Health Res Policy Syst. 2021 Feb 15;19(1):21. doi:
10.1186/s12961-020-00666-x.

Demographic forecasting of population aging in Greece and Cyprus: one big 
challenge for the Mediterranean health and social system long-term 
sustainability.

Lamnisos D(1), Giannakou K(2), Jakovljevic MM(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, School of Health Sciences, European University 
Cyprus, Nicosia, Cyprus. D.Lamnisos@euc.ac.cy.
(2)Department of Health Sciences, School of Health Sciences, European University 
Cyprus, Nicosia, Cyprus.
(3)Institute of Comparative Economic Studies, Hosei University, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Department of Public Health and Healthcare named after N.A. Semashko, I.M. 
Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University (Sechenov University), Moscow, 
Russia.
(5)Department of Global Health Economics and Policy, Faculty of Medical 
Sciences, University of Kragujevac, Kragujevac, Serbia.

BACKGROUND: With an increasing aging population and a lower ratio between the 
active and the dependent population, population aging is considered a global 
social and health challenge, associated with increased demand in health care 
needs and social pension. This study projects the Greek and Cypriot population 
to guide future planning of social and health policies and services.
METHODS: The total population by sex and age groups, Total Fertility Rate (TFR), 
life-expectancies at birth and Potential Support Ratio PSR (persons aged 
20-64 years per person 65+ years) are projected probabilistically by the year 
2100 using Bayesian hierarchical models and United Nations' population data for 
Greece and Cyprus from the period of 1950 to 2015.
RESULTS: The TFR is projected to be around 1.5 children per woman in 2050 and 
around 1.75 in 2100 for both countries, with all values of prediction intervals 
being around or below the Replacement level fertility. PSR is expected to 
decrease remarkably and be 2.5 in 2050 and 1.6 in 2100 for Cyprus while for 
Greece it will be around 1.5 for both years 2050 and 2100. Life-expectancy is 
expected to increase to 84 years for men and 87 years for women in 2050 and 
90 years for men and 94 years for women in 2100 for both countries. The share of 
the population aged 65 years and over is projected to increase in both countries 
and be the one third of the population by 2100.
CONCLUSIONS: Greece and Cyprus will acquire the characteristics of an aging 
population, putting a significance pressure on the social and health systems of 
both countries. Both countries should reform their social and health policy 
agenda to confront population aging and its consequence. They should adopt 
fertility incentives and family policies to increase fertility and migrants' 
inclusiveness policies to improve the demographic structure and the economic 
activity. The national health systems should promote prevention strategies at 
the primary health sector and promote healthy aging while health research policy 
should aim to promote research in innovative technologies and digital health to 
create assistive technology for self-care and greater independence of older 
people.

DOI: 10.1186/s12961-020-00666-x
PMCID: PMC7885460
PMID: 33588876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


980. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2021 Feb 15;16(1):86. doi: 10.1186/s13023-020-01658-4.

Long-term health-related quality of life in patients treated with subcutaneous 
C1-inhibitor replacement therapy for the prevention of hereditary angioedema 
attacks: findings from the COMPACT open-label extension study.

Lumry WR(1), Zuraw B(2), Cicardi M(3), Craig T(4), Anderson J(5), Banerji A(6), 
Bernstein JA(7), Caballero T(8), Farkas H(9), Gower RG(10), Keith PK(11), Levy 
DS(12), Li HH(13), Magerl M(14), Manning M(15), Riedl MA(16), Lawo JP(17), 
Prusty S(17), Machnig T(17), Longhurst H(18)(19); on behalf of the COMPACT 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)AARA Research Center, 10100 N. Central Expressway, Suite 100, Dallas, TX, 
75231, USA. Lumrymd@AARAResearch.com.
(2)Department of Medicine, UC San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(3)University of Milan, Milan, Italy.
(4)Penn State University College of Medicine, Hershey, PA, USA.
(5)Clinical Research Center of Alabama, Birmingham, AL, USA.
(6)Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(7)University of Cincinnati College of Medicine and Bernstein Clinical Research 
Center, LLC, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(8)Allergy Department, Hospital La Paz Institute for Health Research (IdiPaz), 
Biomedical Research Network On Rare Diseases (CIBERER U754), Madrid, Spain.
(9)Hungarian Angioedema Reference Center, 3Rd Department of Internal Medicine, 
Semmelweis University, Budapest, Hungary.
(10)Marycliff Clinical Research, Spokane, WA, USA.
(11)McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, USA.
(12)UC Irvine, Orange, CA, USA.
(13)Institute for Asthma and Allergy, Chevy Chase, MD, USA.
(14)Department of Dermatology and Allergy, Charité, Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 
Berlin, Germany.
(15)Medical Research of Arizona, Scottsdale, AZ, USA.
(16)Division of Rheumatology, Allergy and Immunology, University of California, 
San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(17)CSL Behring GmbH, Emil-von-Behring-Strasse 76, Marburg, Germany.
(18)University College Hospital, London, UK.
(19)Auckland District Health Board, Auckland, New Zealand.

Erratum in
    Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2021 Jul 28;16(1):329.

BACKGROUND: Long-term prophylaxis with subcutaneous C1-inhibitor (C1-INH[SC]; 
HAEGARDA, CSL Behring) in patients with hereditary angioedema (HAE) due to 
C1-INH deficiency (C1-INH-HAE) was evaluated in an open-label extension 
follow-up study to the international, double-blind, placebo-controlled COMPACT 
study. The current analysis evaluated patient-reported health-related quality of 
life (HRQoL) data from 126 patients in the open-label extension study randomized 
to treatment with C1-INH(SC) 40 IU/kg (n = 63) or 60 IU/kg (n = 63) twice weekly 
for 52 weeks. HRQoL was evaluated at the beginning of the open-label study and 
at various time points using the European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions 
Questionnaire (EQ-5D), the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), the 
Work Productivity and Activity Impairment Questionnaire (WPAI), and the 
Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication. The disease-specific 
Angioedema Quality of Life Questionnaire (AE-QoL) and HAE quality of life 
questionnaire (HAE-QoL) instruments were administered in a subset of patients. 
Statistical significance was determined by change-from-baseline 95% confidence 
intervals (CIs) excluding zero. No adjustment for multiplicity was done.
RESULTS: Mean baseline EQ-5D scores (Health State Value, 0.90; Visual Analog 
Scale, 81.32) were slightly higher (better) than United States population norms 
(0.825, 80.0, respectively) and mean HADS anxiety (5.48) and depression (2.88) 
scores were within "normal" range (0-7). Yet, patients using C1-INH(SC) 60 IU/kg 
demonstrated significant improvement from baseline to end-of-study on the EQ-5D 
Health State Value (mean change [95% CI], 0.07 [0.01, 0.12] and Visual Analog 
Scale (7.45 [3.29, 11.62]). In the C1-INH(SC) 60 IU/kg group, there were 
significant improvements in the HADS anxiety scale (mean change [95% CI], - 1.23 
[- 2.08, - 0.38]), HADS depression scale (- 0.95 [- 1.57, - 0.34]), and 
WPAI-assessed presenteeism (mean change [95% CI], - 23.33% [- 34.86, - 11.81]), 
work productivity loss (- 26.68% [- 39.92, - 13.44]), and activity impairment 
(- 16.14% [- 26.36, - 5.91]). Clinically important improvements were achieved 
in ≥ 25% of patients for all domains except WPAI-assessed absenteeism (which was 
very low at baseline). Mean AE-QoL total score by visit ranged from 13.39 to 
17.89 (scale 0-100; lower scores = less impairment). Mean HAE-QoL global scores 
at each visit (115.7-122.3) were close to the maximum (best) possible score of 
135.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term C1-INH(SC) replacement therapy in patients with 
C1-INH-HAE leads to significant and sustained improvements in multiple measures 
of HRQoL. Trial registration A Study to Evaluate the Long-term Clinical Safety 
and Efficacy of Subcutaneously Administered C1-esterase Inhibitor in the 
Prevention of Hereditary Angioedema, NCT02316353. Registered December 12, 2014, 
https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02316353 .

DOI: 10.1186/s13023-020-01658-4
PMCID: PMC7885603
PMID: 33588897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: W Lumry is a consultant for Adverum, Attune, 
BioCryst, CSL Behring, Kalvista, Pharming, and Takeda; a speaker for CSL 
Behring, Pharming, and Takeda; and has received research grants from BioCryst, 
CSL Behring, Pharming, Ionis, and Takeda. B Zuraw has served as a consultant for 
Adverum, Attune, BioCryst, CSL Behring, and Takeda. M Cicardi was a PI, 
consultant, and speaker for CSL Behring, Shire/Takeda, and Pharming; a 
consultant PI for BioCryst, Kalvista, Attune, and Pharvaris; and conducted 
research with Pharming and Shire/Takeda. T Craig is a consultant and speaker for 
CSL Behring, Shire/Takeda, Spark, and Pharming; has conducted research for CSL 
Behring, Shire/Takeda, Ionis, and BioCryst; and is on the Medical Advisory Board 
for the HAEA, Board of Directors for the AAAAI and the Board of Directors for 
ALA- Mid Atlantic. J Anderson is a PI, consultant, and speaker for CSL Behring, 
Shire/Takeda, and Pharming and a PI for BioCryst. A Banerji conducted research 
with Shire/Takeda, BioCryst and served as a consultant for Shire/Takeda, 
BioCryst, Pharming, CSL, and Kalvista. JA Bernstein is a PI, consultant, and 
speaker for CSL Behring, Shire/Takeda, and Pharming; a consultant and PI for 
BioCryst; and a consultant for Kalvista. T Caballero is a speaker for CSL 
Behring, Merck, Novartis, and Shire/Takeda; consultant for BioCryst, CSL 
Behring, Novartis, Octapharma, Pharming, and Shire/Takeda; she has been a PI in 
clinical trials/registries for BioCryst, CSL Behring, Novartis, Pharming, and 
Shire/Takeda; she has received educational funding from CSL Behring, Novartis, 
and Shire/Takeda; and she is a researcher from the IdiPAZ program for promoting 
research activities. H Farkas has received honoraria, speaker fees, and travel 
grants from CSL Behring, Shire/Takeda, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, and Pharming 
and/or served as a consultant for these companies and has participated in 
clinical trials/registries for BioCryst, CSL Behring, Pharming, and 
Shire/Takeda. RG Gower has conducted research with Shire/Takeda and BioCryst; he 
has served as a consultant with Shire/Takeda and CSL Behring; is on the advisory 
board for Shire/Takeda, BioCryst, and Fresenius Kabi; and he has received 
speakers’ fees from Shire/Takeda. PK Keith has conducted research with, served 
as a consultant for, and has received speakers’ fees from Shire/Takeda and CSL 
Behring. DS Levy has served as a consultant, speaker, and has received research 
grants from CSL Behring; he has served as a consultant for BioCryst; he has 
served as a speaker for Takeda. HH Li has conducted research with and has served 
as a consultant/received speakers’ fees from Shire/Takeda, BioCryst, and CSL 
Behring; he has served as a consultant/received speakers’ fees from Pharming. M 
Magerl is a PI, consultant, and/or speaker for CSL Behring, BioCryst, Kalvista, 
Shire/Takeda, and Pharming. M Manning is a researcher/PI and speaker/consultant 
at CSL Behring, Shire/Takeda, BioCryst, and Pharming. M Riedl is a research 
investigator with CSL Behring, Takeda, BioCryst, and Ionis; he has served as a 
consultant for CSL Behring, Takeda, BioCryst, Pharming, Adverum, Attune, 
Kalvista, and Pharvaris; and he has received speakers’ fees from CSL Behring, 
Takeda, and Pharming. J-P Lawo, S Prusty, and T Machnig are/were employees of 
and stockholders at CSL Behring during study conduct. H Longhurst served as a 
consultant for, participated in research with or accepted educational funding 
support from Adverum, BioCryst, CSL Behring, GSK, Kalvista, Pfizer, Pharming, 
Pharvaris, and Shire/Takeda.


981. Vaccine. 2021 Feb 22;39(8):1183-1186. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2021.01.019.

The recommended lifetime immunization schedule from the board of vaccination 
calendar for life in Italy: A continuing example of impact on public health 
policies.

Bonanni P(1), Villani A(2), Scotti S(3), Biasci P(4), Russo R(2), Maio T(3), 
Vitali Rosati G(4), Moscadelli A(5), Conforti G(4), Azzari C(2), Ferro A(5), 
Francia F(5), Chiamenti G(4), Barretta M(4), Castiglia P(5), Macrì P(6), 
Conversano M(5), Bozzola E(2), Angelillo IF(5).

Author information:
(1)Italian Society of Hygiene, Preventive Medicine and Public Health (SItI), 
Italy. Electronic address: paolo.bonanni@unifi.it.
(2)Italian Society of Paediatrics (SIP), Italy.
(3)Italian Federation of General Practitioners (FIMMG), Italy.
(4)Italian Federation of Primary Care Paeditaricians (FIMP), Italy.
(5)Italian Society of Hygiene, Preventive Medicine and Public Health (SItI), 
Italy.
(6)MeLCo - Medicina Legale Contemporanea, Italy.

The Vaccination Calendar for Life is an alliance of scientific and professional 
societies of public health physicians, paediatricians and general practitioners 
in Italy which provides a periodical update on the ideal, scientifically driven 
vaccination calendar throughout lifetime. Since 2012, the Lifetime Immunization 
Schedule has represented a benchmark for Regional and National Authorities to 
set up the updated list of vaccines provided actively and free of charge to 
infants, children, adolescents, adults and the elderly by inclusion in the 
Triennial National Vaccination Plan (TNVP), and in the Essential Levels of Care 
(LEA). The impact of the different editions of the Lifetime Immunization 
Schedule on the TNVP was deep, representing the inspiring source for the present 
vaccination policy. The 2019 edition called for more attention to pregnant women 
immunization; risk groups vaccination; uniform high coverage with the MMRV 
vaccine; extension of Meningococcal B vaccination also at adolescent age; use of 
quadrivalent conjugate meningococcal vaccine also at 1 year of life; progressive 
decrease of the age of free-of-charge offer of influenza to ≥ 60 and then 
to ≥ 50 year-old population; implementation of flu immunization ages 
6 months-6 years; HPV vaccination also offered to 25-year old women at the time 
of the first screening (gender neutral immunization already offered); sequential 
PCV13-PPV23 pneumococcal vaccination in 65 year-old subjects; increased coverage 
with rotavirus vaccine in infants and zoster vaccine in the elderly.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2021.01.019
PMID: 33589048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


982. BMJ Open. 2021 Feb 15;11(2):e042280. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-042280.

Cost-effectiveness and budget impact analysis of facility-based screening and 
treatment of hepatitis C in Punjab state of India.

Chugh Y(1), Premkumar M(2), Grover GS(3), Dhiman RK(4), Teerawattananon Y(5)(6), 
Prinja S(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, Post Graduate 
Institute of Medical Education and Research School of Public Health, Chandigarh, 
Punjab, India.
(2)Department of Hepatology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, India.
(3)Department of Health and Family Welfare, National Viral Hepatitis Control 
Program, Government of Punjab, Chandigarh, India.
(4)Director, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow, 
Uttar Pradesh, India.
(5)Health Intervention and Technology Assessment Program, Ministry of Public 
Health, Mueang Nonthaburi, Nonthaburi, Thailand.
(6)Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health (SSHSPH), National University of 
Singapore, Singapore.
(7)Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, Post Graduate 
Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, India 
shankarprinja@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: Despite treatment availability, chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) 
public health burden is rising in India due to lack of timely diagnosis. 
Therefore, we aim to assess incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) for one-time universal screening followed by treatment of people infected 
with HCV as compared with a no screening policy in Punjab, India.
STUDY DESIGN: Decision tree integrated with Markov model was developed to 
simulate disease progression. A societal perspective and a 3% annual discount 
rate were considered to assess incremental cost per QALY gained. In addition, 
budgetary impact was also assessed with a payer's perspective and time horizon 
of 5 years.
STUDY SETTING: Screening services were assumed to be delivered as a 
facility-based intervention where active screening for HCV cases would be 
performed at 22 district hospitals in the state of Punjab, which will act as 
integrated testing as well as treatment sites for HCV.
INTERVENTION: Two intervention scenarios were compared with no universal 
screening and treatment (routine care). Scenario I-screening with ELISA followed 
by confirmatory HCV-RNA quantification and treatment. Scenario II-screening with 
rapid diagnostic test (RDT) kit followed by confirmatory HCV-RNA quantification 
and treatment.
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Lifetime costs; life years and QALY 
gained; and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for each of the above-mentioned 
intervention scenario as compared with the routine care.
RESULTS: Screening with ELISA and RDT, respectively, results in a gain of 0.028 
(0.008 to 0.06) and 0.027 (0.008 to 0.061) QALY per person with costs decreased 
by -1810 Indian rupees (-3376 to -867) and -1812 Indian rupees (-3468 to -850) 
when compared with no screening. One-time universal screening of all those ≥18 
years at a base coverage of 30%, with ELISA and RDT, would cost 8.5 and 8.3 
times more, respectively, when compared with screening the age group of the 
cohort 40-45 years old.
CONCLUSION: One-time universal screening followed by HCV treatment is a dominant 
strategy as compared with no screening. However, budget impact of screening of 
all ≥18-year-old people seems unsustainable. Thus, in view of findings from both 
cost-effectiveness and budget impact, we recommend beginning with screening the 
age cohort with RDT around mean age of disease presentation, that is, 40-45 
years, instead of all ≥18-year-old people.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published 
by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-042280
PMCID: PMC7887370
PMID: 33589457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


983. BMJ Open. 2021 Feb 15;11(2):e044706. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-044706.

Uneven state distribution of homicides in Brazil and their effect on life 
expectancy, 2000-2015: a cross-sectional mortality study.

Aburto JM(1)(2), Calazans J(3), Lanza Queiroz B(3), Luhar S(4), Canudas-Romo 
V(5).

Author information:
(1)Leverhulme Centre for Demographic Science, Department of Sociology and 
Nuffield College, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK 
jose-manuel.aburto@sociology.ox.ac.uk.
(2)Interdisciplinary Centre on Population Dynamics, University of Southern 
Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(3)CEDEPLAR, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(4)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, UK.
(5)School of Demography, Australian National University, Canberra, Australian 
Capital Territory, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To determine cause-specific and age-specific contributions to life 
expectancy changes between 2000 and 2015, separately by state and sex in Brazil, 
with a focus on homicides.
DESIGN: Retrospective cross-sectional demographic analysis of mortality.
SETTING AND POPULATION: Brazilian population by age, sex and state from 2000 to 
2015.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Using mortality data from the Brazilian Mortality 
Information System and population estimates from the National Statistics Office, 
we used death distribution methods and the linear integral decomposition model 
to estimate levels and changes in life expectancy. We also examine how multiple 
causes of death, including those attributable to homicides and 
amenable/avoidable mortality, contributed to these changes from 2000 to 2015.
RESULTS: Between 2000 and 2015, life expectancy in Brazil increased from 71.5 to 
75.1 years. Despite state-level variation in gains, life expectancy increased in 
almost all states over this period. However across Brazil, homicide mortality 
contributed, to varying degrees, to either attenuated or decreased male life 
expectancy gains. In Alagoas in 2000-2007 and Sergipe in 2007-2015, homicides 
contributed to a reduction in life expectancy of 1.5 years, offsetting gains 
achieved through improvements due to medically amenable causes. In the period 
2007-2015, male life expectancy could have been improved by more than half a 
year in 12 of Brazil's states if homicide mortality had remained at the levels 
of 2007.
CONCLUSIONS: Homicide mortality appears to offset life expectancy gains made 
through recent improvements to mortality amenable to medical services and public 
health interventions, with considerable subnational heterogeneity in the extent 
of this phenomenon. Efforts combating the causes of homicides can increase life 
expectancy beyond what has been achieved in recent decades.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-044706
PMCID: PMC7887357
PMID: 33589464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


984. Sci Rep. 2021 Feb 15;11(1):3786. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-83383-x.

The relationship of indoxyl sulfate and p-cresyl sulfate with target 
cardiovascular proteins in hemodialysis patients.

Wu PH(1)(2)(3)(4), Lin YT(1)(2)(5)(4), Chiu YW(2)(6)(3), Baldanzi G(4), Huang 
JC(1)(2)(3)(7), Liang SS(8), Lee SC(3), Chen SC(1)(2)(3)(7), Hsu YL(9), Kuo 
MC(10)(11)(12), Hwang SJ(2)(6)(3).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine, College of Medicines, Kaohsiung 
Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(3)Division of Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical 
University Hospital, 100 Shih-Chuan 1st Road, Kaohsiung, 807, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(5)Department of Family Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(6)Faculty of Renal Care, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine, Kaohsiung Municipal Siaogang Hospital, 
Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(8)Department of Biotechnology, College of Life Science, Kaohsiung Medical 
University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(9)Graduate Institute of Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical 
University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(10)Faculty of Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan. mechku@kmu.edu.tw.
(11)Faculty of Renal Care, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan. mechku@kmu.edu.tw.
(12)Division of Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical 
University Hospital, 100 Shih-Chuan 1st Road, Kaohsiung, 807, Taiwan. 
mechku@kmu.edu.tw.

Protein-bound uremic toxins (Indoxyl sulfate [IS] and p-cresyl sulfate [PCS]) 
are both associated with cardiovascular (CV) and all-cause mortality in subjects 
with chronic kidney disease (CKD). Possible mechanisms have not been elucidated. 
In hemodialysis patients, we investigated the relationship between the free form 
of IS and PCS and 181 CV-related proteins. First, IS or PCS concentrations were 
checked, and high levels were associated with an increased risk of acute 
coronary syndrome (ACS) in 333 stable HD patients. CV proteins were further 
quantified by a proximity extension assay. We examined associations between the 
free form protein-bound uremic toxins and the quantified proteins with 
correction for multiple testing in the discovery process. In the second step, 
the independent association was evaluated by multivariable-adjusted models. We 
rank the CV proteins related to protein-bound uremic toxins by bootstrapped 
confidence intervals and ascending p-value. Six proteins (signaling lymphocytic 
activation molecule family member 5, complement component C1q receptor, C-C 
motif chemokine 15 [CCL15], bleomycin hydrolase, perlecan, and cluster of 
differentiation 166 antigen) were negatively associated with IS. Fibroblast 
growth factor 23 [FGF23] was the only CV protein positively associated with IS. 
Three proteins (complement component C1q receptor, CCL15, and interleukin-1 
receptor-like 2) were negatively associated with PCS. Similar findings were 
obtained after adjusting for classical CV risk factors. However, only higher 
levels of FGF23 was related to increased risk of ACS. In conclusion, IS and PCS 
were associated with several CV-related proteins involved in endothelial barrier 
function, complement system, cell adhesion, phosphate homeostasis, and 
inflammation. Multiplex proteomics seems to be a promising way to discover novel 
pathophysiology of the uremic toxin.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-83383-x
PMCID: PMC7884394
PMID: 33589722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


985. Acta Diabetol. 2021 Jun;58(6):797-807. doi: 10.1007/s00592-021-01683-0. Epub
 2021 Feb 15.

Risk of cause-specific death, its sex and age differences, and life expectancy 
in post-pancreatitis diabetes mellitus.

Cho J(1), Pandol SJ(2), Petrov MS(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Cedars-Sinai Medical 
Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(3)School of Medicine, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. 
max.petrov@gmail.com.

AIMS: The aim was to investigate sex- and age-stratified risks of cause-specific 
death and life expectancy in individuals with post-pancreatitis diabetes 
mellitus (PPDM).
METHODS: Nationwide data on mortality in New Zealand were obtained. For two 
head-to-head comparisons (PPDM versus type 2 diabetes mellitus [T2DM]; PPDM 
versus type 1 diabetes mellitus [T1DM]), the groups were matched on age, sex, 
and calendar year of diabetes diagnosis. Multivariable Cox regression analyses 
