needed to (1) better understand environmental factors that inhibit/promote 
recommended lifestyle changes to decrease T2D risk, (2) elucidate desired 
program characteristics, and (3) explore improved activation in diabetes 
prevention programs.
RESULTS: Financial resources, limited access to healthy foods, safe places for 
physical activity, and competing priorities pose barriers to adopting lifestyle 
changes. Adolescents and their parents desire interactive, hands-on learning 
experiences that incorporate a sense of fun, play, and community in diabetes 
prevention programs.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings of this study highlight important insights of 3 
specific stakeholder groups regarding diabetes prevention and lifestyle changes. 
The findings of this study demonstrate that, with appropriate methods and 
facilitation, adolescents, parents, and professionals can be empowered to 
co-design diabetes prevention programs.

©Julie M Pike, Courtney M Moore, Lisa G Yazel, Dustin O Lynch, Kathryn M 
Haberlin-Pittz, Sarah E Wiehe, Tamara S Hannon. Originally published in Journal 
of Participatory Medicine (http://jopm.jmir.org), 24.02.2021.

DOI: 10.2196/18245
PMCID: PMC7946580
PMID: 33625364

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


103. Age Ageing. 2021 May 5;50(3):676-683. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afab016.

Recent mortality in Britain: a review of trends and explanations.

Murphy M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Population Research Unit, Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Helsinki, 
P.O. Box 18, Helsinki FIN-00014, Finland.
(2)Department of Social Policy, London School of Economics and Political 
Science, Houghton St, London WC2A 2AE, UK.

The annual percentage improvement in standardised mortality rates in the period 
2011-19 was the lowest for 70 years, whereas the 2001-10 value was the highest 
since records began in 1841. A similar slowdown occurred from around 2011 in 
most European Union countries, although this was generally less severe than in 
Britain. Life expectancy at birth actually fell in USA for three successive 
years in period 2014-17. The downturn in Britain since 2011 was wide-ranging, 
affecting young and old, women and men and the more and the less advantaged to a 
broadly similar extent. Year-to-year variation in mortality increased mainly due 
to increased volatility in winter excess mortality from 2011, but all seasons 
showed lower rates of improvement in underlying longer-term trends. Mortality 
had started to improve at the end of the decade and the 2019 value was the 
lowest-ever value in Britain. Two main explanations for these trends have been 
advanced: UK Government post-2008 austerity policies, especially in the health 
and social care sectors, and the role of seasonal influenza. However, the 
evidence for a dominant role for either of these is weak. Longer-term overall 
trends have been determined principally by trends in cardiovascular rather than 
non-cardiovascular causes of death, although recent changes in discovery and 
coding of dementias makes it difficult to draw firm conclusions. Healthy life 
expectancy trends are also affected by changes in data and methods, but the 
proportion of life spent in good health for both women and men over age 65 has 
increased slightly since 2010.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Geriatrics Society. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afab016
PMID: 33625483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. JAMA Netw Open. 2021 Feb 1;4(2):e210037. doi:
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2021.0037.

Cost-effectiveness of Atezolizumab Plus Bevacizumab vs Sorafenib as First-Line 
Treatment of Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma.

Su D(1), Wu B(2), Shi L(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The First Affiliated Hospital of University of 
Science and Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui, China.
(2)Medical Decision and Economic Group, Department of Pharmacy, Ren Ji Hospital, 
South Campus, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Global Health Management and Policy, Tulane University School 
of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, New Orleans, Louisiana.

IMPORTANCE: Treatment with atezolizumab plus bevacizumab may prolong overall 
survival among patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma. However, to 
our knowledge, the cost-effectiveness of using this high-priced therapy for this 
indication is currently unknown.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of atezolizumab plus bevacizumab 
to treat unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma from the US payer perspective.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This economic evaluation used a partitioned 
survival model consisting of 3 discrete health states to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma with atezolizumab 
plus bevacizumab vs sorafenib. The characteristics of patients in the model were 
similar to patients in a phase 3, open-label randomized clinical trial 
(IMbrave150) who had unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma and had not 
previously received systemic treatment. Key clinical data were generated from 
the IMbrave150 trial conducted between March 15, 2018, and January 30, 2019, and 
cost and health preference data were collected from the literature.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Costs, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), 
incremental cost-utility ratios, incremental net health benefits, and 
incremental net monetary benefits were calculated for the 2 treatment 
strategies. Subgroup, 1-way sensitivity, and probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
were performed.
RESULTS: Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma with atezolizumab plus 
bevacizumab added 0.530 QALYs and resulted in an incremental cost of $89 807 
compared with sorafenib therapy, which had an incremental cost-utility ratio of 
$169 223 per QALY gained. The incremental net health benefit was -0.068 QALYs, 
and the incremental net monetary benefit was -$10 202 at a willingness-to-pay 
threshold of $150 000/QALY. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated 
that treatment with atezolizumab plus bevacizumab achieved a 35% probability of 
cost-effectiveness at a threshold of $150 000/QALY. One-way sensitivity analysis 
revealed that the results were most sensitive to the hazard ratio of overall 
survival. The subgroup analysis found that treatment with atezolizumab plus 
bevacizumab was associated with preferred incremental net health benefits in 
several subgroups, including patients with hepatitis B and C.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Atezolizumab plus bevacizumab treatment is unlikely 
to be a cost-effective option compared with sorafenib for patients with 
unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma. Reducing the prices of atezolizumab and 
bevacizumab may improve cost-effectiveness. The economic outcomes also may be 
improved by tailoring treatments based on individual patient factors.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2021.0037
PMCID: PMC7905498
PMID: 33625508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None reported.


105. Eur J Health Econ. 2021 Jun;22(4):531-545. doi: 10.1007/s10198-021-01271-7.
Epub  2021 Feb 24.

Adjusted productivity costs of stroke by human capital and friction cost 
methods: a Northern Finland Birth Cohort 1966 study.

Rissanen I(1)(2)(3), Ala-Mursula L(4), Nerg I(5), Korhonen M(5).

Author information:
(1)Center for Life Course Health Research, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland. 
i.l.rissanen@umcutrecht.nl.
(2)Medical Research Center Oulu, Oulu University Hospital and University of 
Oulu, Oulu, Finland. i.l.rissanen@umcutrecht.nl.
(3)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht and Utrecht University, Huispost nr. STR 6.131, P.O. Box 85500, 3508 GA, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands. i.l.rissanen@umcutrecht.nl.
(4)Center for Life Course Health Research, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland.
(5)Oulu Business School, Department of Economics, University of Oulu, Oulu, 
Finland.

BACKGROUND: Productivity costs result from loss of paid and unpaid work and 
replacements due to morbidity and mortality. They are usually assessed in health 
economic evaluations with human capital method (HCM) or friction cost method 
(FCM). The methodology for estimating lost productivity is an area of 
considerable debate.
OBJECTIVE: To compare traditional and adjusted HCM and FCM productivity cost 
estimates among young stroke patients.
METHODS: The Northern Finland Birth Cohort 1966 was followed until the age of 50 
to identify all 339 stroke patients whose productivity costs were estimated with 
traditional, occupation-specific and adjusted HCM and FCM models by using 
detailed, national register-based data on care, disability, mortality, 
education, taxation and labour market.
RESULTS: Compared to traditional HCM, taking into account occupational class, 
national unemployment rate, disability-free life expectancy and decline in work 
ability, the productivity cost estimate decreased by a third, from €255,960 to 
€166,050. When traditional FCM was adjusted for occupational class and national 
unemployment rate, the estimate more than doubled from €3,040 to €7,020. HCM was 
more sensitive to adjustments for discount rate and wage growth rate than FCM.
CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights the importance of adjustments of HCM and FCM. 
Routine register-based data can be used for accurate productivity cost estimates 
of health shocks.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-021-01271-7
PMCID: PMC8166714
PMID: 33625624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


106. Med Ultrason. 2020 Dec 5. doi: 10.11152/mu-2769. Online ahead of print.

The role of advanced multimodality imaging in chronic mitral regurgitation.

Badau Riebel CI(1), Agoston-Coldea L(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Medicine and Pharmacy "Iuliu Hatieganu", Cluj Napoca, Romania 
Cardiology Department, Heart Institute "Niculae Stancioiu" Cluj Napoca. 
catalina_badau@yahoo.com.
(2)"Iuliu Hatieganu" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 2nd Department of 
Internal Medicine, Emergency County Hospital, Cluj-Napoca, Romania.

Mitral regurgitation (MR), the second most common valvular heart disease, still 
constitutes a major diagnostic and thera-peutic challenge, due to its complex 
nature and to its consequences on cardiac remodelling. Life quality and 
expectancy are determined by the irreversibility of the left ventricular 
systolic dysfunction, which, despite current guidelines, remains a major 
drawback. In order to accurately establish "the point of no return" for left 
ventricular systolic function, the embedment of clinical, biological and imaging 
data is a requirement. The purpose of this review is to provide an overview of 
the current multimodal imaging techniques that are useful in correctly assessing 
patients with MR. Cardiac magnetic resonance strain imaging techniques and 3D 
echocardiography, in addition to current echocardiographic criteria may help 
identify the patients who will benefit from early surgery. The technical 
development of new transcatheter techniques in mitral valve repair could lead to 
the extension of current guidelines.

DOI: 10.11152/mu-2769
PMID: 33626121


107. Cancer Med. 2021 Mar;10(6):1964-1974. doi: 10.1002/cam4.3733. Epub 2021 Feb
24.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of first-line treatments for advanced epidermal 
growth factor receptor-mutant non-small cell lung cancer patients.

Li WQ(1), Li LY(1), Chai J(2), Cui JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer center, the First Hospital of Jilin University, 
Changchun, China.
(2)Department of pharmacy, the Second Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, 
China.

OBJECTIVES: Recent studies showed prolonged survival for advanced epidermal 
growth factor receptor (EGFR)-mutant non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients 
treated with both monotherapies and combined therapies. However, high costs 
limit clinical applications. Thus, we conducted this cost-effectiveness analysis 
to explore an optimal first-line treatment for advanced EGFR-mutant NSCLC 
patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Survival data were extracted from six clinical trials, 
including ARCHER1050 (dacomitinib vs. gefitinib); FLAURA (osimertinib vs. 
gefitinib/erlotinib); JO25567 and NEJ026 (bevacizumab +erlotinib vs. erlotinib); 
NEJ009 (gefitinib +chemotherapy vs. gefitinib); and NCT02148380 (gefitinib 
+chemotherapy vs. gefitinib vs. chemotherapy) trials. Cost-related data were 
obtained from hospitals and published literature. The effect parameter 
(quality-adjusted life year [QALY]) was the reflection of both survival and 
utility. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), average cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ACER), and net benefit were calculated, and the willingness-to-pay (WTP) 
threshold was set at $30828/QALY from the perspective of the Chinese healthcare 
system. Sensitivity analysis was performed to explore the stability of results.
RESULTS: We compared treatment groups with control groups in each trial. ICERs 
were $1897750.74/QALY (ARCHER1050), $416560.02/QALY (FLAURA), -$477607.48/QALY 
(JO25567), -$464326.66/QALY (NEJ026), -$277121.22/QALY (NEJ009), 
-$399360.94/QALY (gefitinib as comparison, NCT02148380), and -$170733.05/QALY 
(chemotherapy as comparison, NCT02148380). Moreover, ACER and net benefit showed 
that the combination of EGFR-TKI with chemotherapy and osimertinib was of more 
economic benefit following first-generation EGFR-TKIs. Sensitivity analyses 
showed that the impact of utilities and monotherapy could be cost-effective with 
a 50% cost reduction.
CONCLUSION: First-generation EGFR-TKI therapy remained the most cost-effective 
treatment option for advanced EGFR-mutant NSCLC patients. Our results could 
serve as both a reference for both clinical practice and the formulation of 
medical insurance reimbursement.

© 2021 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.3733
PMCID: PMC7957173
PMID: 33626238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


108. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2021 Feb 10;42(2):291-296. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200403-00506.

[Probability of premature mortality caused by four major non-communicable 
diseases and its impact on life expectancy in Wuxi, 2008-2018].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Wang L(1), Chen H(1), Qian Y(1), Dong YQ(1), Guo LL(1), Yang ZJ(1), Shen Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Promotion, Wuxi Center for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Wuxi 214023, China.

Objective: To analyze the trend of premature death of non-communicable diseases 
(NCDs) in Wuxi from 2008 to 2018 and evaluate the influence of premature 
mortality probability caused by four main NCDs on life expectancy. Methods: 
Based on the mortality data collected by Wuxi Mortality Registration System and 
the population data collected by Wuxi Public Security Bureau during 2008-2018, 
this study analyzes the trend of the probability of premature death on malignant 
tumors, cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, chronic respiratory 
diseases, and diabetes. The impact on life expectancy was analyzed by using the 
methods of abridged life table, Joinpoint regression, and life expectancy 
contribution decomposition. Results: From 2008 to 2018, the total probability of 
premature death of four main NCDs in Wuxi were declined consistently from 11.25% 
to 9.25% (AAPC = -2.0%, 95%CI: -2.6--1.5), higher in female (from 7.74% to 
5.91%) than that in male (from 14.49% to 12.51%). The Wuxi resident's life 
expectancy increased by 1.86 years (from 78.66 to 80.52 years), in males and 
1.26 years (from 83.85 to 85.11 years) in females, respectively. The decline of 
premature death of malignant tumors, cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases 
and chronic respiratory system diseases had a positive contribution to life 
expectancy, which contributed 0.34 years (23.90%), 0.15 years (10.50%), and 0.03 
years (2.36%) to the life expectancy growth, respectively. Among which, 
premature death of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases in men aged 
40-55y had a negative contribution to life expectancy (-0.04 years). The 
probability of premature death of males with diabetes was on the rise (AAPC = 
7.1%, 95%CI: 2.8-11.6), which negatively contributed to life expectancy for both 
males and females, reducing life expectancy by 0.03 years (-2.14%) in Wuxi. 
Conclusion: The premature death probability of four main NCDs in Wuxi declined 
consistently from 2008 to 2018, which played a positive role in the growth of 
life expectancy. Compared with females, males had a higher premature death 
probability and a slower rate of decline. More intervention and health 
management of premature male death on cardiovascular and cerebrovascular 
diseases and diabetes should be conducted to improve life expectancy further.

Publisher: 目的： 分析无锡市居民2008-2018年主要慢性病过早死亡变化趋势，评估主要慢性病早死概率变化对期望寿命的影响。 方法： 
利用无锡死因监测系统收集的2008-2018年户籍人口死亡数据和无锡市公安局人口数据，应用简略寿命表法、Joinpoint回归法、期望寿命贡献分解法，分析恶性肿瘤、心脑血管疾病、慢性呼吸系统疾病、糖尿病4类主要慢性病早死概率变化趋势以及对期望寿命的影响。 
结果： 
无锡市居民主要慢性病早死概率从2008年的11.25%下降到2018年的9.25%，呈逐年下降趋势（AAPC=-2.0%，95%CI：-2.6～-1.5），女性早死概率较低，且下降速度（由7.74%降至5.91%）快于男性（由14.49%降至12.51%）。2008-2018年无锡市男性和女性期望寿命分别增加了1.86岁（由78.66岁增至80.52岁）和1.26岁（由83.85岁增至85.11岁）。恶性肿瘤、心脑血管疾病、慢性呼吸系统疾病早死概率的降低对期望寿命增长起到“正向贡献”，分别使期望寿命增加0.34岁（23.90%）、0.15岁（10.50%）、0.03岁（2.36%），其中40~55岁男性心脑血管疾病过早死亡对期望寿命的增长呈“负向贡献”（-0.04岁）。男性糖尿病早死概率呈上升趋势（AAPC=7.1%，95%CI：2.8～11.6），糖尿病过早死亡对无锡市男性和女性期望寿命均呈“负向贡献”，使期望寿命降低0.03岁（-2.14%）。 
结论： 
2008-2018年无锡市居民主要慢性病早死概率呈持续下降趋势，对期望寿命增长起到积极作用，与女性相比，男性主要慢性病早死概率较高且下降速度较慢，应重点关注男性心脑血管疾病和糖尿病过早死亡对期望寿命的影响。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112338-20200403-00506
PMID: 33626618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Haematologica. 2021 Jun 1;106(6):1535-1544. doi:
10.3324/haematol.2020.271353.

Chronic organ injuries in children with sickle cell disease.

Allali S(1), Taylor M(2), Brice J(3), de Montalembert M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Pediatrics and Pediatric Infectious Diseases, Reference 
Center for Sickle Cell Disease, Necker Hospital for Sick Children, Assistance 
Publique - Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), Université de Paris, Paris; Laboratory of 
Cellular and Molecular Mechanisms of Hematological Disorders and Therapeutical 
Implications, Université de Paris, Imagine Institute, Inserm U1163, Paris; 
Laboratory of Excellence GR-Ex.
(2)Department of General Pediatrics and Pediatric Infectious Diseases, Reference 
Center for Sickle Cell Disease, Necker Hospital for Sick Children, Assistance 
Publique - Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), Université de Paris, Paris; Laboratory of 
Excellence GR-Ex, Paris; Paris-Cardiovascular Research Centre (PARCC), 
Université de Paris, Inserm U970.
(3)Department of General Pediatrics and Pediatric Infectious Diseases, Reference 
Center for Sickle Cell Disease, Necker Hospital for Sick Children, Assistance 
Publique - Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), Université de Paris, Paris; Laboratory of 
Excellence GR-Ex, Paris; Institut National de la Transfusion Sanguine (INTS), 
Université de Paris, Inserm U1134, Paris.
(4)Department of General Pediatrics and Pediatric Infectious Diseases, Reference 
Center for Sickle Cell Disease, Necker Hospital for Sick Children, Assistance 
Publique - Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), Université de Paris, Paris; Laboratory of 
Excellence GR-Ex, Paris; Institut National de la Transfusion Sanguine (INTS), 
Université de Paris, Inserm U1134, Paris. mariane.demontal@nck.aphp.fr.

Median life expectancy of patients with sickle cell disease has increased to up 
to 55 years but there are still frequent cases of premature death, mostly in 
patients with pre-existing organ failure such as pulmonary hypertension, kidney 
injury, and cerebral vasculopathy. Most organ injuries remain asymptomatic for a 
long time and can only be detected through early systematic screening. Protocols 
combining assessment of velocities on transcranial Doppler and regular 
transfusions in patients with abnormal velocities have been demonstrated to 
dramatically reduce the risk of stroke. In contrast, no consensus has been 
reached on systematic screening or therapy for silent cerebral infarcts. The 
prognostic significance of increased tricuspid regurgitant jet velocity on 
echocardiography has not yet been identified in children, whereas increased 
albuminuria is a good predictor of kidney injury. Finally, screening for hip and 
eye disorder is recommended; however, different countries adopt different 
screening strategies. Hydroxyurea is probably of potential benefit in preventing 
chronic organ damage but this requires further study in order to be fully 
demonstrated. Efficacy and safety of the other new drugs available are also 
under investigation.

DOI: 10.3324/haematol.2020.271353
PMCID: PMC8168494
PMID: 33626864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. J Feline Med Surg. 2021 Mar;23(3):211-233. doi: 10.1177/1098612X21993657.

2021 AAHA/AAFP Feline Life Stage Guidelines.

Quimby J(1), Gowland S(2), Carney HC(3), DePorter T(4), Plummer P(5), Westropp 
J(6).

Author information:
(1)DVM, PhD, DACVIM, Co-Chair of 2021 AAHA/AAFP Feline Life Stage Guidelines 
Task Force The Ohio State University, Department of Veterinary Clinical 
Sciences, Columbus, Ohio, USA.
(2)DVM, DABVP, Co-Chair of 2021 AAHA/AAFP Feline Life Stage Guidelines Task 
Force OVC Smith Lane Animal Hospital, Ontario Veterinary College, Guelph, 
Ontario, Canada.
(3)DVM, MS, DABVP, WestVet Emergency and Specialty Center, Garden City, Idaho, 
USA.
(4)DVM, MRCVS, DACVB, DECAWBM, Oakland Veterinary Referral Services, Bloomfield 
Hills, Michigan, USA.
(5)LVT, VTS (ECC, SAIM), Texas A&M University Veterinary Medical Teaching 
Hospital, College Station, Texas, USA.
(6)DVM, PhD, DACVIM, University of California, Davis, School of Veterinary 
Medicine, Davis, California, USA.

Erratum in
    J Feline Med Surg. 2021 Aug;23(8):NP3.

Comment in
    J Feline Med Surg. 2021 Mar;23(3):209.

The guidelines, authored by a Task Force of experts in feline clinical medicine, 
are an update and extension of the AAFP-AAHA Feline Life Stage Guidelines 
published in 2010. The guidelines are published simultaneously in the Journal of 
Feline Medicine and Surgery (volume 23, issue 3, pages 211-233, DOI: 
10.1177/1098612X21993657) and the Journal of the American Animal Hospital 
Association (volume 57, issue 2, pages 51-72, DOI: 10.5326/JAAHA-MS-7189). A 
noteworthy change from the earlier guidelines is the division of the cat's 
lifespan into a five-stage grouping with four distinct age-related stages 
(kitten, young adult, mature adult, and senior) as well as an end-of-life stage, 
instead of the previous six. This simplified grouping is consistent with how pet 
owners generally perceive their cat's maturation and aging process, and provides 
a readily understood basis for an evolving, individualized, lifelong feline 
healthcare strategy. The guidelines include a comprehensive table on the 
components of a feline wellness visit that provides a framework for 
systematically implementing an individualized life stage approach to feline 
healthcare. Included are recommendations for managing the most critical 
health-related factors in relation to a cat's life stage. These recommendations 
are further explained in the following categories: behavior and environmental 
needs; elimination; life stage nutrition and weight management; oral health; 
parasite control; vaccination; zoonoses and human safety; and recommended 
diagnostics based on life stage. A discussion on overcoming barriers to 
veterinary visits by cat owners offers practical advice on one of the most 
challenging aspects of delivering regular feline healthcare.

DOI: 10.1177/1098612X21993657
PMID: 33627003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. J Matern Fetal Neonatal Med. 2022 Dec;35(25):5745-5753. doi: 
10.1080/14767058.2021.1892067. Epub 2021 Feb 24.

Economic evaluation of point of care universal newborn screening for 
glucose-6-Phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency in United States.

Vidavalur R(1), Bhutani VK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neonatology, Cayuga Medical Center, Ithaca, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Neonatal and Developmental Medicine, 
Stanford Children's Health, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Glucose-6-Phosphate Dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency 
is frequent inherited enzymopathy that poses potentially preventable risk for 
extreme hyperbilirubinemia (EHB) which can, rarely, lead to acute bilirubin 
encephalopathy, childhood kernicterus and death. We aimed to estimate quality 
adjusted life years (QALY) lost due to G6PD deficiency associated with EHB and 
economic costs to best estimate value of universal pre-discharge screening.
METHODS: We did a cost utility analysis for US birth cohort utilizing 
pre-discharge screening decision tree model to estimate population burden and 
EHB outcomes, based on literature search and expert opinions. Employing human 
capital approach, we measured health benefits in terms of QALYs and economic 
losses. QALYs and costs were discounted at 3%; one-way sensitivity analysis was 
used for decision variables.
RESULTS: We determined for USA live births of 3.86 million in 2017, 1464 cases 
of EHB were estimated to be due to G6PD deficiency (CI 95%; range: 1270-1656) 
and contributed 2 deaths (CI 95%; range 1.3-3.2) and 14 (CI 95%; range: 
9.1-21.5) cases of kernicterus. Over lifetime horizon, the model predicted 
undiscounted and discounted gains of 165 (102-252) life years; 241 (183-433) 
QALYs and 16 (9.9-24.5) life years; 89 (67.9-160.5) QALYs, respectively. 
Assuming 50% effectiveness, benefit cost ratios ranged from 0.19 to 3.42 for 
diverse operational settings. The cost to prevent a single case of kernicterus 
was $2.7 to 6.8 million per annum with cost per QALY gained at $35,946 to 
$89,159.
CONCLUSION: At incremental cost-effective threshold of $100,000/life year, 
pre-discharge screening would be expected to prove cost effective in preventing 
EHB related morbidities and mortality attributed to G6PD deficiency.

DOI: 10.1080/14767058.2021.1892067
PMID: 33627013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2022 Jan;22(1):85-91. doi: 
10.1080/14737167.2021.1888717. Epub 2021 Feb 25.

Cost-effectiveness of adding durvalumab to first-line chemotherapy for 
extensive-stage small-cell lung cancer in China.

Liu G(1), Kang S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The Third Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang, PR China.

OBJECTIVES: Durvalumab plus chemotherapy could significantly improve overall 
survival compared with chemotherapy alone in the first-line treatment of 
extensive-stage small-cell lung cancer (SCLC). However, its long-term economic 
outcomes remain unclear yet. This study aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness 
of adding durvalumab to first-line chemotherapy for extensive-stage SCLC from 
the perspective of the Chinese health-care system.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model with 10-year horizon was developed to 
estimate the health and economic outcomes of adding durvalumab to first-line 
treatment for extensive-stage SCLC. The primary outcomes included total costs, 
life years (LYs), quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Costs and utility values were obtained from the 
published literature. A scenario analysis for a patient assistance program (PAP) 
was conducted. Sensitivity analyses were performed to explore the robustness of 
the model outcomes.
RESULTS: Durvalumab plus chemotherapy yielded additional 0.25 QALYs, with 
incremental costs of 76,354 USD, resulting in an ICER of 302,051 USD/QALY 
compared with chemotherapy alone, when PAP was available, the ICER was 192,591 
USD/QALY. Sensitivity analyses confirmed the robustness of model outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Adding durvalumab to first-line chemotherapy for extensive-stage 
small-cell lung cancer is unlikely to be cost-effectiveness in China.

DOI: 10.1080/14737167.2021.1888717
PMID: 33627014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Vaccine. 2021 Mar 19;39(12):1721-1726. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2021.02.019.
Epub  2021 Feb 21.

Pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine is a cost saving strategy for prevention of 
acute coronary syndrome.

Ren S(1), Attia J(2), Li SC(3), Newby D(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Newcastle, NSW, 
Australia. Electronic address: shu.ren@uon.edu.au.
(2)School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Newcastle, NSW, 
Australia.
(3)School of Biomedical Sciences and Pharmacy, University of Newcastle, NSW, 
Australia.

OBJECTIVE: There is evidence that the pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPV) 
may reduce cardiovascular disease. We aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness 
of PPV for primary prevention of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) in the elderly in 
Australia.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to investigate the costs, QALYs and ICERs 
of PPV administration in those aged ≥65 years without a history of ACS from the 
perspective of Australian healthcare system, using elderly-specific clinical 
data and local costs from Australian Heart Foundation and Australian Institute 
of Health and Welfare databases. A ten-years horizon was used, and all costs and 
health outcomes were discounted at 5% annually. The impact of various 
assumptions was tested with sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, interventional strategy (100% PPV coverage) 
prevented an additional five incident ACS events among 1000 "healthy" elderly 
individuals compared with standard of care (50% PPV coverage) over 10 years. 
100% PPV was the dominant strategy, resulting in a QALY gain of 0.0075 and cost 
saving of AU$ 179 per person. The results were most sensitive to effectiveness 
of PPV at preventing ACS and reducing hospital bed-days, and cost of ACS 
admission, but in all sensitivity analyses 100% PPV remained the dominant 
strategy. Shortening the time horizon from ten to five years resulted in further 
cost saving.
CONCLUSION: PPV for the prevention of ACS in those aged ≥65 is a dominant 
intervention strategy, with cost saving and minor improvements in QALY. 
Healthcare providers should promote PPV administration for all eligible 
populations.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2021.02.019
PMID: 33627244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


114. BMJ Support Palliat Care. 2021 Feb 24:bmjspcare-2020-002727. doi: 
10.1136/bmjspcare-2020-002727. Online ahead of print.

'Palliative care education in nursing homes: a qualitative evaluation of 
telementoring.

Manson J(1), Gardiner C(2), Taylor P(3), Ghasemi L(3), Westerdale-Shaw E(3), 
Sutton L(4), Cawley H(3).

Author information:
(1)Project ECHO Team, St Luke's Hospice, Sheffield, UK 
j.manson@hospicesheffield.co.uk.
(2)School of Nursing, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(3)Project ECHO Team, St Luke's Hospice, Sheffield, UK.
(4)Therapy Services, Ashgate Hospice, Chesterfield, Derbyshire, UK.

There is an increasing need to support nursing homes in palliative care to 
reduce suffering and avoid unnecessary hospital admissions at the end of life. 
Providing education to nursing homes faces many barriers including structural 
systems and cultural issues. In order to overcome some of these barriers, 
education using Project Extension for Community Health Outcomes (ECHO) 
methodology has been delivered to nursing homes throughout a large city in 
England. This paper aims to explore participant experience in Project ECHO for 
nursing homes.
METHODOLOGY: Qualitative semistructured interviews with a purposive sample of 
nursing home staff. Interviews were conducted by one researcher and transcribed 
verbatim. Line-by-line coding and categorisation were used to form themes.
RESULTS: Eleven interviews were completed with data saturation reached by 
interview eight. The following themes were revealed: Barriers and facilitators 
to accessing Project ECHO, Community of Practice and Communication with nursing 
homes and data extraction.
CONCLUSION: Project ECHO is an accessible, acceptable and engaging way of 
delivering palliative care education to nursing homes combatting some of the 
traditional barriers that nursing homes face in accessing training.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjspcare-2020-002727
PMID: 33627368

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: This project was completed 
by a Health Education Leadership Fellow working within the Project ECHO team.


115. Front Pharmacol. 2021 Feb 8;12:634344. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2021.634344. 
eCollection 2021.

Fructose and Non-Alcoholic Steatohepatitis.

Roeb E(1), Weiskirchen R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Justus Liebig University Giessen and 
University Hospital Giessen, Giessen, Germany.
(2)Institute of Molecular Pathobiochemistry, Experimental Gene Therapy and 
Clinical Chemistry (IFMPEGKC), RWTH University Hospital Aachen, Aachen, Germany.

Background: The excessive consumption of free sugars is mainly responsible for 
the high prevalence of obesity and metabolic syndrome in industrialized 
countries. More and more studies indicate that fructose is involved in the 
pathophysiology and also in the degree of disease of non-alcoholic fatty liver 
disease (NAFLD). In epidemiologic studies, energy-adjusted higher fructose 
consumption correlates with NAFLD in overweight adults. In addition to glucose, 
fructose, as an equivalent component of conventional household sugar, appears to 
have negative metabolic effects in particular due to its exclusive hepatic 
metabolism. Liver-related mortality is strictly associated with the degree of 
fibrosis, whereas the most common cause of death in patients suffering from 
NAFLD and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) are still cardiovascular 
diseases. In this review article, we have summarized the current state of 
knowledge regarding a relationship between fructose consumption, liver fibrosis 
and life expectancy in NASH. Method: Selective literature search in PubMed using 
the keywords 'non-alcoholic fatty liver', 'fructose', and 'fibrosis' was 
conducted. Results: The rate of overweight and obesity is significantly higher 
in both, adult and pediatric NASH patients. The consumption of free sugars is 
currently three times the maximum recommended amount of 10% of the energy 
intake. The current literature shows weight gain, negative effects on fat and 
carbohydrate metabolism and NASH with hypercaloric intake of fructose. 
Conclusions: Excessive fructose consumption is associated with negative health 
consequences. Whether this is due to an excess of energy or the particular 
metabolism of fructose remains open with the current study situation. The 
urgently needed reduction in sugar consumption could be achieved through a 
combination of binding nutritional policy measures including taxation of sugary 
soft drinks. Previous studies suggest that diet-related fructose intake 
exceeding the amount contained in vegetables and fruits lead to an increase of 
hepatic lipogenesis. Thus, further studies to clarify the protective 
contribution of low-fructose intake to positively influence NAFLD in industrial 
population are urgently required.

Copyright © 2021 Roeb and Weiskirchen.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2021.634344
PMCID: PMC7898239
PMID: 33628193

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


116. Asia Pac J Clin Oncol. 2022 Apr;18(2):e96-e102. doi: 10.1111/ajco.13563.
Epub  2021 Feb 25.

The national trend of the gastric cancer burden in Iran from 1990 to 2017.

Fattahi N(1), Moghaddam SS(1), Rezaei N(1), Rezaei N(1), Fattahi E(2), 
Moradveisi B(3), Roshani S(1)(4), Farzi Y(1), Zakaryaei F(5), Miraki A(6), 
Moradi-Lakeh M(7), Mokdad AH(8), Naghavi M(8), Farzadfar F(1)(9).

Author information:
(1)Non-Communicable Diseases Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Population Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(2)Department of internal medicine, Tohid Hospital, Kurdistan University of 
Medical Sciences, Sanandaj, Iran.
(3)Cancer and Immunology Research Center, Kurdistan University of Medical 
Sciences, Sanandaj, Iran.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Student research committee, Kurdistan University of Medical Sciences, 
Sanandaj, Iran.
(6)Student Research Committee, Kurdistan University of Medical Science, 
Sanandaj, Iran.
(7)Preventive Medicine and Public Health Research Center, Iran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(8)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington.
(9)Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Clinical Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.

INTRODUCTION: Gastric cancer (GC), the leading cause of cancer mortality, is the 
third most common cancer in Iran. To our knowledge, there have been few accurate 
estimates on the burden of GC in Iran. Therefore, as part of the Global Burden 
of Diseases Study 2017 (GBD 2017), we aimed to study and illustrate the burden 
of GC and to compare rates by sex and age groups at the national level in Iran 
from 1990 to 2017.
METHODS: We extracted data related to the 1990-2017 period from the GBD study. 
To report the burden of GC, we used disability adjusted life years (DALYs), 
mortality, incidence, and prevalence rates in different sex and age groups in 
Iran during the 1990-2017 period. Decomposition analysis was also performed to 
evaluate the roots change in incident cases.
RESULTS: At a national level, the age-standardized prevalence rate (ASPR), 
age-standardized incidence rate (ASIR), age-standardized mortality rate (ASMR), 
and age-standardized DALYs rate (ASDR) in 2017 were 22.9 (95% uncertainty 
interval [UI]: 22.1-23.9), 14.6 (14.1-15.2), 14.9 (14.4-15.4), and 296.8 
(286.3-308.7) per 100,000 population, respectively. Over the 1990-2017 period, 
the average annual percent changes in all of the studied age-standardized rates 
were negative. Moreover, the male to female sex ratios of all estimates were 
greater than one. The incidence rate, prevalence rate, and mortality rate slowly 
began to increase at the age of 50 and reached its highest level among people 
aged 80 years and over.
CONCLUSION: The GC age-standardized rates revealed a downward trend from 1990 to 
2017. The current study provides comprehensive knowledge about the GC burden in 
Iran. Therefore, it can help the appropriate allocation of resources for GC to 
expand preventive programs by reducing exposure to risk factors and Helicobacter 
pylori infection and by recommending increased consumption of fruits and 
vegetables. Also, expanding GC screening programs with laboratory tests or 
endoscopy can be an important step towards the reduction of the GC burden.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ajco.13563
PMID: 33629817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Eur J Endocrinol. 2021 May;184(5):627-636. doi: 10.1530/EJE-20-1155.

The doubled burden of diabetic bone disease: hip fracture and post-hip fracture 
mortality.

Behanova M(1), Haschka J(1), Zwerina J(1), Wascher TC(2), Reichardt B(3), 
Klaushofer K(1), Kocijan R(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Ludwig Boltzmann Institute of Osteology at Hanusch Hospital of OEGK and AUVA 
Trauma Centre Meidling, Vienna, Austria.
(2)Diabetes and Metabolism Unit, 1st Med. Department at Hanusch Hospital, 
Vienna, Austria.
(3)Austrian Social Health Insurance Fund, Österreichische Gesundheitskasse, 
Eisenstadt, Austria.
(4)Metabolic Bone Diseases Unit, Sigmund Freund University Vienna, School of 
Medicine, Vienna, Austria.

OBJECTIVE: Patients with diabetes have an increased risk of osteoporosis and 
shorter life expectancy. Hip fracture (HF) is the most serious consequence of 
osteoporosis and is associated with increased mortality risk. We aimed to assess 
the association of antidiabetic medications with HF and the post-hip fracture 
mortality risk among diabetic patients ≥50 years.
DESIGN: In this nationwide case-control study 53 992 HF cases and 112 144 age-, 
sex- and region-matched non-hip fracture controls were analyzed. A cohort of 
hip-fractured diabetic patients were followed-up for an all-cause mortality.
METHODS: We defined three groups of diabetic patients based on a prescription of 
antidiabetic medications: group 1 treated with insulin monotherapy (G1DM), group 
2 (G2DM) treated with blood glucose-lowering drugs (BGLD) only, group 3 on a 
combined BGLD and insulin therapy (G3DM). We applied logistic regression and Cox 
regression.
RESULTS: We identified 2757 G1DM patients, 15 310 G2DM patients, 3775 G3DM 
patients and 144 294 patients without any antidiabetic treatment. All three 
groups of diabetic patients had increased odds of HF compared to controls. G1DM 
patients aged 50-64 years (aOR: 4.80, 95% CI: 3.22-7.17) and G3DM patients (aOR: 
1.39, 95% CI: 1.02-1.88) showed the highest HF odds, whereas G2DM patients had 
18% decrease in HF odds than their non-diabetic controls (aOR: 0.82, 95% CI: 
0.69-0.99). All diabetic patients had increased post-hip fracture mortality risk 
compared to non-diabetic controls. The highest mortality hazard was observed in 
G1DM patients, being greater for women than men (HR: 1.71, 95% CI: 1.55-1.89 and 
HR: 1.44, 95% CI: 1.27-1.64, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Antidiabetic medications increase the probability of HF. Diabetic 
patients, who sustained HF have a higher mortality risk than non-diabetic 
patients.

DOI: 10.1530/EJE-20-1155
PMID: 33630752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2021 Oct;62(4):757-767. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2021.02.019. Epub 2021 Feb 23.

Association Between Subjective Remaining Life Expectancy and Advance Care 
Planning in Older Adults: A Cross-Sectional Study.

Fleuren N(1), Depla MFIA(2), Pasman HRW(3), Janssen DJA(4), Onwuteaka-Philipsen 
BD(3), Hertogh CMPM(2), Huisman M(5).

Author information:
(1)Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Medicine for Older People, 
Amsterdam Public Health Research Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
Electronic address: n.fleuren@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Medicine for Older People, 
Amsterdam Public Health Research Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Public and Occupational Health, 
Amsterdam Public Health Research Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Maastricht University, Care and Public Health Research Institute, Health 
Services Research, Maastricht, The Netherlands; CIRO, Research and Development, 
Horn, The Netherlands.
(5)Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Epidemiology and Biostatistics, 
Amsterdam Public Health Research Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Faculty of Sociology, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

CONTEXT: Advance care planning (ACP) becomes more relevant with deteriorating 
health or increasing age. People might be more inclined to engage in ACP as they 
feel that they are approaching end of life. The perception of approaching end of 
life could be quantified as subjective remaining life expectancy (SRLE).
OBJECTIVES: First, to describe the prevalence of ACP with health care providers 
or written directives ("formal engagement in ACP") and ACP with loved-ones 
("informal engagement in ACP") among older persons in the general population in 
The Netherlands. Second, to assess the association between SRLE and engagement 
in ACP.
METHODS: Cross-sectional study using data from the Longitudinal Aging Study 
Amsterdam (LASA) measurement wave of 2015-2016. Participants (n = 1585) were 
aged ≥ 57 years.
RESULTS: Median age was 69.4 years (IQR: 64.1-76.7), and median SRLE 25.9 years 
(17.7-36.0). Formal engagement in ACP was present in 32.6%, informal without 
formal engagement in 45.8%, and 21.6% was not engaged in ACP. For respondents 
with SRLE < 25 years, there was a nonstatistically significant association 
between SRLE and engagement in ACP (aOR: 0.97; 95% CI: 0.93-1.01; P= .088), and 
a statistically significant, small association with formal vs. informal 
engagement in ACP (aOR: 0.96; 0.93-0.99; P= .009). For respondents with SRLE ≥ 
25 years there was no association between SRLE and engagement in ACP.
CONCLUSION: The perception of approaching end of life is associated with higher 
prevalence of formal engagement in ACP, but only for those with SRLE < 25 years. 
For clinicians, asking patients after their SRLE might serve as a starting point 
to explore readiness for ACP.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2021.02.019
PMID: 33631323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Genomics Proteomics Bioinformatics. 2022 Aug;20(4):702-714. doi: 
10.1016/j.gpb.2020.06.018. Epub 2021 Feb 23.

Expanding the Coverage of Metabolic Landscape in Cultivated Rice with Integrated 
Computational Approaches.

Li X(1), Zhou H(1), Xiao N(2), Wu X(3), Shan Y(3), Chen L(1), Wang C(3), Wang 
Z(3), Huang J(4), Li A(5), Li X(6).

Author information:
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Synthetic Biology / National Center for Gene Research, 
CAS Center for Excellence in Molecular Plant Sciences / Institute of Plant 
Physiology and Ecology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200032, China; 
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China.
(2)Lixiahe Agricultural Research Institute of Jiangsu Province, Yangzhou 225007, 
China.
(3)CAS Key Laboratory of Synthetic Biology / National Center for Gene Research, 
CAS Center for Excellence in Molecular Plant Sciences / Institute of Plant 
Physiology and Ecology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200032, China.
(4)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Plant Molecular Sciences, College of Life 
Sciences, Shanghai Normal University, Shanghai 200234, China. Electronic 
address: huangjr@shnu.edu.cn.
(5)Lixiahe Agricultural Research Institute of Jiangsu Province, Yangzhou 225007, 
China. Electronic address: yzlah@126.com.
(6)CAS Key Laboratory of Synthetic Biology / National Center for Gene Research, 
CAS Center for Excellence in Molecular Plant Sciences / Institute of Plant 
Physiology and Ecology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200032, China; 
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China. Electronic 
address: lixuan@sippe.ac.cn.

Genome-scale metabolomics analysis is increasingly used for pathway and function 
discovery in the post-genomics era. The great potential offered by developed 
mass spectrometry (MS)-based technologies has been hindered, since only a small 
portion of detected metabolites were identifiable so far. To address the 
critical issue of low identification coverage in metabolomics, we adopted a deep 
metabolomics analysis strategy by integrating advanced algorithms and expanded 
reference databases. The experimental reference spectra and in silico reference 
spectra were adopted to facilitate the structural annotation. To further 
characterize the structure of metabolites, two approaches were incorporated into 
our strategy, i.e., structural motif search combined with neutral loss scanning 
and metabolite association network. Untargeted metabolomics analysis was 
performed on 150 rice cultivars using ultra-performance liquid chromatography 
coupled with quadrupole-Orbitrap MS. Consequently, a total of 1939 out of 4491 
metabolite features in the MS/MS spectral tag (MS2T) library were annotated, 
representing an extension of annotation coverage by an order of magnitude in 
rice. The differential accumulation patterns of flavonoids between indica and 
japonica cultivars were revealed, especially O-sulfated flavonoids. A series of 
closely-related flavonolignans were characterized, adding further evidence for 
the crucial role of tricin-oligolignols in lignification. Our study provides an 
important protocol for exploring phytochemical diversity in other plant species.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gpb.2020.06.018
PMCID: PMC9880819
PMID: 33631426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Sci Total Environ. 2021 Jun 25;775:145839. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2021.145839.  Epub 2021 Feb 13.

Spatiotemporal trends in stroke burden and mortality attributable to household 
air pollution from solid fuels in 204 countries and territories from 1990 to 
2019.

Lu H(1), Tan Z(2), Liu Z(2), Wang L(3), Wang Y(1), Suo C(4), Zhang T(4), Jin 
L(2), Dong Q(1), Cui M(5), Jiang Y(6), Chen X(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai 200040, 
China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, Human Phenome Institute, and 
School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai 200438, China; Fudan 
University Taizhou Institute of Health Sciences, Taizhou 225312, Jiangsu, China.
(3)Department of Medical Evaluation, Air Force Medical Center, Chinese PLA, 
Beijing 100089, China.
(4)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, and the Key Laboratory 
of Public Health Safety of Ministry of Education, Fudan University, Shanghai 
200032, China; Fudan University Taizhou Institute of Health Sciences, Taizhou 
225312, Jiangsu, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai 200040, 
China; Fudan University Taizhou Institute of Health Sciences, Taizhou 225312, 
Jiangsu, China.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, Human Phenome Institute, and 
School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai 200438, China; Fudan 
University Taizhou Institute of Health Sciences, Taizhou 225312, Jiangsu, China. 
Electronic address: yanfengjiang@fudan.edu.cn.
(7)Department of Neurology, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai 200040, 
China; State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, Human Phenome Institute, and 
School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai 200438, China; Fudan 
University Taizhou Institute of Health Sciences, Taizhou 225312, Jiangsu, China. 
Electronic address: xingdongchen@fudan.edu.cn.

Exposure to household air pollution from solid fuels (HAP) is associated with 
stroke. However, few studies have assessed stroke burden attributable to HAP 
globally and made comparisons across countries. We aimed to estimate the 
spatiotemporal trends in stroke burden and mortality attributable to household 
air pollution from solid fuels (HAP) in 204 countries and territories from 1990 
to 2019. Data on stroke burden and mortality attributable to HAP from 1990 to 
2019 were obtained from Global Burden of Disease Study 2019. We estimated the 
numbers and age-standardized rates (ASRs) of stroke disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs) and mortality (ASDR and ASMR) by sex, age, and subtype, at global, 
regional, and national levels. Estimated annual percentage change (EAPC) was 
calculated to evaluate the temporal trends in ASDR and ASMR from 1990 to 2019. 
In 2019, globally, 14.7 million DALYs and 0.6 million deaths were caused by 
stroke attributable to HAP. The corresponding ASDR and ASMR increased with age, 
were highest in males and for intracerebral hemorrhage, with highest ASRs in the 
low sociodemographic index (SDI) regions and Solomon Islands, and varied greatly 
at the national level. From 1990 to 2019, the corresponding EAPCs in ASDR and 
ASMR were -4.00 (95% confidence interval [CI]: -4.21 to -3.80) and -4.12 (95% 
CI: -4.37 to -3.87), respectively. Stroke burden attributable to HAP decreased 
in all age groups. Females had a lower decreasing trend in ASDR and ASMR, 
compared with males. The decline was more significant for subarachnoid 
hemorrhage, while proportions of ischemic stroke in the numbers of stroke burden 
increased worldwide and in all SDI regions. Although most of countries and 
territories were in a decreasing trend in ASRs over the past three decades, 
Zimbabwe and Philippines showed an undesirable increased trend. Stroke burden 
attributable to HAP is still pronounced in males, old-age populations, 
low-income countries, and for intracerebral hemorrhage. Despite its decreasing 
spatiotemporal trends in most countries, continued efforts on HAP control are 
needed to reduce related stroke burden, especially in those countries with 
increased trends.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2021.145839
PMID: 33631580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.121. Turk J Ophthalmol. 2021 Feb 25;51(1):58-61. doi:
10.4274/tjo.galenos.2020.69822.

Multiple Penetrating Eye Wounds Due to Suspected Self-Injury.

Dalma-Weiszhausz J(1), Alvarado JAO(1), Licona AMS(1), Azuara MTS(2), Kende 
AD(3).

Author information:
(1)Asociación para Evitar la Ceguera en México, Ciudad de México, México.
(2)Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatría Ramón de la Fuente, Ciudad de México, 
México.
(3)Dalma & Asociados, SC. Cuidad de México, México.

We present a case of a 29-year-old male night watchman complaining of sudden 
decreased vision, redness, and tearing of the left eye. On anamnesis, trauma was 
denied and personal past history was relevant for right eye enucleation due to 
an "eye injury" 8 years prior. At presentation, his visual acuity was 20/200 and 
intraocular pressure (IOP) was 10 mmHg. Slit lamp examination revealed a 1-mm 
inferonasal corneal wound and a localized lens opacity associated with extrusion 
and posterior extension of cortical material in the same quadrant. Echography 
confirmed posterior lens capsular bag puncture with hyperechogenic material in 
the anterior vitreous. Intraocular foreign body was ruled out. Topical 
anti-inflammatory and cycloplegic treatment was initiated with partial visual 
recovery, IOP rise, moderate anterior chamber inflammatory reaction, and an 
emergent posterior subcapsular cataract. A pars plana vitrectomy and lensectomy 
were performed. After surgery and recovery, best-corrected visual acuity with 
contact lens was 20/15. The patient was followed for 6 years, during which he 
returned 6 more times with a variety of new findings, such as new corneal 
leukoma, leaking corneal wounds, hypotony, choroidal folds, and choroidal 
detachments, each time with full visual acuity recovery. Some cases of ocular 
injury and self-mutilation have been described in the context of various 
psychiatric disorders. Self-inflicted injuries were suspected due to substance 
abuse, although the patient denied doing so. Referral to a psychiatrist was 
insisted on several occasions without success. However, potentially 
