
© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.4258
PMID: 33772966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. J Environ Radioact. 2021 Jul;233:106587. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvrad.2021.106587.
 Epub 2021 Mar 24.

Uncertainties in short term prediction of atmospheric dispersion of 
radionuclides. A case study of a hypothetical accident in a nuclear floating 
power plant off the West coast of Norway.

Berge E(1), Andronopoulos S(2), Klein H(3), Lind OC(4), Salbu B(4), Syed N(5), 
Ulimoen M(3).

Author information:
(1)The Norwegian Meteorological Institute, Oslo, Norway. Electronic address: 
erik.berge@met.no.
(2)Environmental Research Laboratory Institute of Nuclear and Radiological 
Sciences and Technology, Energy and Safety National Centre for Scientific 
Research "Demokritos", Aghia Paraskevi, Greece.
(3)The Norwegian Meteorological Institute, Oslo, Norway.
(4)Norwegian University of Life Sciences, Ås, Norway.
(5)Norwegian Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority, Oslo, Norway.

Short-term predictions for dispersion of radionuclides in the atmosphere 
following releases from nuclear incidents are associated with uncertainties 
originating from meteorology, source term and parameterization. Characterization 
of these uncertainties is of key importance for preparedness, decision making 
during an accident and for the further uncertainty propagation in the subsequent 
modelling of human and ecosystem exposures. Increased traffic of 
nuclear-propulsion vessels in Norwegian territorial waters gives rise to growing 
concern of a potential nuclear accident along the coast of Norway. In the 
present study, we have quantified and inter-compared the uncertainties 
associated with the model outputs for a hypothetical loss of coolant accident 
with an ensuing fire in a nuclear vessel situated along the Norwegian coastline, 
applying two different atmospheric dispersion models: the SNAP Lagrangian 
particle model (SNAP-Severe Nuclear Accident Program) and the DIPCOT Lagrangian 
puff model (DIPCOT - Dispersion over Complex Terrain). The case highlights a 
situation with atmospheric transport from the offshore area to the coast of 
Western Norway, combined with large wet deposition in inland mountainous 
terrain, i.e. a common weather situation in this region. The meteorological data 
include an Ensemble Prediction System with nine ensemble members in addition to 
a deterministic base run. Five different 7 h emission scenarios with the same 
total released activity were considered. Hourly wind data at 10 m above ground 
for a 24 h period, showed that 36% of the wind direction and 41% of the wind 
speed data were outside the spread of the meteorological ensemble. About 55% and 
13% of the measured values fell outside the ensemble for hourly 2 m above ground 
temperatures and 3 hourly accumulated precipitation, respectively, indicating 
that the ensemble did not cover all uncertainties in the meteorological fields. 
The maps of accumulated concentrations and depositions were qualitatively 
similar for the two models, but SNAP predicted higher accumulated concentration 
levels compared to DIPCOT for quite large areas, while DIPCOT yielded larger 
total depositions in the same areas. Furthermore, the direction, speed of 
movement and spatial extension of the radioactive plume from the accident varied 
considerably from one model to the other. The spread in the dispersion of the 
radionuclides ranged from a factor of about 1-3 in the source area to a factor 
of about 2-5 further away. The spreads due to meteorology and emission scenarios 
were of similar magnitude. Considering the ratio of the 50th percentiles of the 
two models, the spread varied by a factor of about 1-9, indicating that 
uncertainties arising from the formulation of the dispersion model could be as 
important or even larger than those associated with meteorology and emissions. 
Thus, it is recommended to include the uncertainty originating from the choice 
of the dispersion model into the overall uncertainty of short-term prediction of 
the dispersion of radionuclides and to exploit this further by generating an 
ensemble of several dispersion models.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvrad.2021.106587
PMID: 33773365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Food Res Int. 2021 Apr;142:110205. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2021.110205. Epub
2021  Feb 10.

Effects of spraying lactic acid and peroxyacetic acid on the quality and 
microbial community dynamics of vacuum skin-packaged chilled beef during 
storage.

Han J(1), Liu Y(1), Zhu L(1), Liang R(1), Dong P(1), Niu L(1), Hopkins DL(2), 
Luo X(3), Zhang Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Lab of Beef Processing and Quality Control, College of Food Science and 
Engineering, Shandong Agricultural University, Taian, Shandong 271018, PR China; 
National R&D Center for Beef Processing Technology, Tai'an, Shandong 271018, PR 
China.
(2)Lab of Beef Processing and Quality Control, College of Food Science and 
Engineering, Shandong Agricultural University, Taian, Shandong 271018, PR China; 
Centre for Red Meat and Sheep Development, NSW Department of Primary Industries, 
Cowra, NSW 2794, Australia.
(3)Lab of Beef Processing and Quality Control, College of Food Science and 
Engineering, Shandong Agricultural University, Taian, Shandong 271018, PR China; 
National R&D Center for Beef Processing Technology, Tai'an, Shandong 271018, PR 
China; Jiangsu Synergetic Innovation Center of Meat Production and Processing 
Quality and Safety Control, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210000, PR China. Electronic 
address: luoxin@sdau.edu.cn.
(4)Lab of Beef Processing and Quality Control, College of Food Science and 
Engineering, Shandong Agricultural University, Taian, Shandong 271018, PR China; 
National R&D Center for Beef Processing Technology, Tai'an, Shandong 271018, PR 
China. Electronic address: ymzhang@sdau.edu.cn.

A long shelf life for fresh meat products is very important both to processors, 
retailers and consumers. In this work, the effect of repeat acid spraying on the 
shelf life of vacuum skin-packaged (VSP) chilled beef, as well as the quality 
and microbial community dynamics was evaluated. Carcasses were sprayed with 
300 ppm peroxyacetic acid (PA) or 3% lactic acid (LA) three times during the 
chilling process, or one more time of LA spray before packaging (LLA). Quality, 
sensory attributes and microbial load of VSP beef during 32 days of storage at 
4 °C were evaluated. The results showed that quality and sensory scores 
decreased over time for all treatments, but LLA treated samples were still above 
the rejection threshold at the end of the storage period. Moreover, the total 
volatile basic nitrogen value and the total viable counts were 15.0 mg/100 g and 
7.2 log CFU/g for the control group, while acid treated groups remained below 
these two values until the end of the storage period. In particular LLA treated 
beef steaks exhibited the best preservation potential even at the end of 
storage. This is attributed to the reduction of Proteobacteria in LLA beef 
steaks shown by the bacterial diversity analysis via high-throughput sequencing, 
as well as the lower counts of B. thermosphacta and Enterobacteriaceae during 
storage. This indicates that LLA treatment has the potential to achieve a shelf 
life extension of VSP steaks without impacting on quality.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2021.110205
PMID: 33773680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Blood Rev. 2021 Sep;49:100825. doi: 10.1016/j.blre.2021.100825. Epub 2021
Mar  16.

Chronic Myeloid Leukemia: Modern therapies, current challenges and future 
directions.

Osman AEG(1), Deininger MW(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology & Hematologic Malignancies, Department of Internal 
Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA. Electronic address: 
afaf.osman@hci.utah.edu.
(2)Division of Hematology & Hematologic Malignancies, Department of Internal 
Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.

Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a myeloproliferative neoplasm caused by a 
reciprocal translocation [t(9;22)(q34;q11.2)] that leads to the fusion of ABL1 
gene sequences (9q34) downstream of BCR gene sequences (22q11) and is 
cytogenetically visible as Philadelphia chromosome (Ph). The resulting BCR/ABL1 
chimeric protein is a constitutively active tyrosine kinase that activates 
multiple signaling pathways, which collectively lead to malignant 
transformation. During the early (chronic) phase of CML (CP-CML), the myeloid 
cell compartment is expanded, but differentiation is maintained. Without 
effective therapy, CP-CML invariably progresses to blast phase (BP-CML), an 
acute leukemia of myeloid or lymphoid phenotype. The development of BCR-AB1 
tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) revolutionized the treatment of CML and 
ignited the start of a new era in oncology. With three generations of BCR/ABL1 
TKIs approved today, the majority of CML patients enjoy long term remissions and 
near normal life expectancy. However, only a minority of patients maintain 
remission after TKI discontinuation, a status termed treatment free remission 
(TFR). Unfortunately, 5-10% of patients fail TKIs due to resistance and are at 
risk of progression to BP-CML, which is curable only with hematopoietic stem 
cell transplantation. Overcoming TKI resistance, improving the prognosis of 
BP-CML and improving the rates of TFR are areas of active research in CML.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.blre.2021.100825
PMCID: PMC8563059
PMID: 33773846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement No conflicts of 
interest, financial or other, exist for Afaf Osman. Michael Deininger’s 
potential conflicts of interest includes serving on the advisory board of 
Blueprint, Takeda, Novartis, Incyte, Sangamo and Pfizer, paid consultation at 
Blueprint, Fusion Pharma, Medscape, Novartis, Sangamo, DisperSol and the NCCN, 
research funding from Blueprint, Takeda, Novartis, Incyte, SPARC, Leukemia and 
Lymphoma Society and Pfizer and study management committees at Blueprint and 
Takeda. He is a case author at Medscape.


548. Int J Drug Policy. 2021 Oct;96:103195. doi: 10.1016/j.drugpo.2021.103195.
Epub  2021 Mar 26.

Overdose mortality is reducing the gains in life expectancy of 
antiretroviral-treated people living with HIV in British Columbia, Canada.

St-Jean M(1), Dong X(1), Tafessu H(1), Moore D(2), Honer WG(3), Vila-Rodriguez 
F(4), Sereda P(1), Hogg RS(5), Patterson TL(6), Salters K(1), Barrios R(7), 
Montaner JSG(2), Lima VD(8).

Author information:
(1)British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, Vancouver, Canada.
(2)British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, Vancouver, Canada; 
Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada; 
British Columbia Mental Health and Substance Use Services Research Institute, 
Vancouver, Canada.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(5)British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, Vancouver, Canada; 
Faculty of Health Sciences, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, Canada.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, CA, USA.
(7)British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, Vancouver, Canada; 
Vancouver Coastal Health, Vancouver, Canada.
(8)British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, Vancouver, Canada; 
Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada. Electronic address: 
vlima@bccfe.ca.

BACKGROUND: A remarkable reduction in AIDS-related mortality has been achieved 
through the widespread use of triple combination antiretroviral therapy, 
considerably increasing the life expectancy of people living with HIV (PLWH). 
However, these survival gains are now at risk in North America due to an 
unprecedented public health emergency: the deadly drug overdose epidemic. Drug 
overdoses are now the leading cause of unintentional death in British Columbia 
(BC), Canada and the United States due to synthetic opioids (e.g., fentanyl) in 
illegal markets. This manuscript aimed to estimate the effect of overdose 
mortality on life expectancy and identify covariates associated with the hazard 
for overdose mortality in the presence of competing risk among PLWH in BC.
METHODS: Those eligible were aged ≥20 years, initiated antiretroviral therapy 
from 1-Apr-1996 to 30-Dec-2017, and were followed until 31-Dec-2017, last 
contact or death date. We estimated the potential gains in life expectancy from 
abridged life tables. We modelled the association between covariates and the 
cause-specific hazard for overdose mortality, accounting for mortality of other 
causes as a competing risk.
RESULTS: Among the 10,362 PLWH, 3% experienced overdose mortality. The life 
expectancy at age 20 increased by 8.7 years from 2002-2007 to 2008-2013 compared 
to only 3.0 years from 2008-2013 to 2014-2017. The potential gain in life 
expectancy was 3.3 years at age 20 during the ongoing overdose epidemic 
(2014-2017). There were gender differences in life expectancies throughout the 
study period. People who have ever injected drugs, women and viral load 
monitoring non-compliance were key covariates associated with an increased 
hazard of overdose mortality.
CONCLUSION: Survival gains among PLWH have been considerably reduced due to the 
ongoing overdose epidemic.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drugpo.2021.103195
PMID: 33773878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations of Interest JSGM has received 
institutional grants from Gilead Sciences, J&J, Merck, ViiV Healthcare, and a 
Knowledge Translation Award from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research. 
JSGM also served as an advisor to the Government of Canada and the Government of 
British Columbia in the last year. All other authors declare no competing 
interests.


549. J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 2021 Sep;30(9):1998-2006. doi:
10.1016/j.jse.2021.03.136.  Epub 2021 Mar 24.

Cost-utility analysis of total shoulder arthroplasty: a prospective health 
economic study using real-world data.

Grobet CE(1), Glanzmann MC(2), Eichler K(3), Rickenbacher D(1), Meier F(3), 
Brunner B(3), Audigé L(4).

Author information:
(1)Research and Development, Schulthess Klinik, Zürich, Switzerland.
(2)Shoulder and Elbow Surgery, Schulthess Klinik, Zürich, Switzerland.
(3)Winterthur Institute of Health Economics, Zürich University of Applied 
Sciences, Winterthur, Switzerland.
(4)Research and Development, Schulthess Klinik, Zürich, Switzerland. Electronic 
address: laurent.audige@kws.ch.

BACKGROUND: With increasing health care expenditures, knowledge about the 
benefit and costs of surgical interventions such as total shoulder arthroplasty 
(TSA) becomes important for orthopedic surgeons, social insurance programs, and 
health policy decision makers. We examined the impact of TSA on quality of life 
(QOL), direct medical costs, and productivity losses and evaluated the 
cost-utility ratio of TSA compared with ongoing nonoperative management using 
real-world data.
METHODS: Patients with shoulder osteoarthritis and/or rotator cuff tear 
arthropathy indicated for anatomic or reverse TSA were included in this 
prospective study. QOL (European Quality of Life 5 Dimensions 5-Level 
questionnaire) and shoulder function (Constant score; Shoulder Pain and 
Disability Index; short version of the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and 
Hand questionnaire; and Subjective Shoulder Value) were assessed preoperatively 
and up to 2 years postoperatively. Health insurance companies provided 
all-diagnosis direct medical costs for 2018 in Swiss francs (CHF), where 1 CHF 
was equivalent to US $1.02. Indirect costs were assessed using the Work 
Productivity and Activity Impairment Questionnaire. Baseline data at recruitment 
and the total costs of the preoperative year served as a proxy for nonoperative 
management. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was calculated as 
the total costs to gain 1 extra quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) based on both 
the health care system perspective and societal perspective. The relationship 
between QOL and shoulder function was assessed by regression analysis.
RESULTS: The mean preoperative utility index for the European Quality of Life 5 
Dimensions 5-Level questionnaire of 0.68 for a total of 150 patients (mean age, 
71 years; 21% working; 58% women) increased to 0.89 and 0.87 at 1 and 2 years 
postoperatively, respectively. Mean direct medical costs were 11,771 CHF 
(preoperatively), 34,176 CHF (1 year postoperatively), and 11,763 CHF (2 years 
postoperatively). The ICER was 63,299 CHF/QALY (95% confidence interval, 
44,391-82,206 CHF/QALY). The mean productivity losses for 29 working patients 
decreased from 40,574 CHF per patient (preoperatively) to 26,114 CHF at 1 year 
postoperatively and 10,310 CHF at 2 years postoperatively. When considering 
these productivity losses, the ICER was 35,549 CHF/QALY (95% confidence 
interval, 12,076-59,016 CHF/QALY). QOL was significantly associated with 
shoulder function (P < .001).
CONCLUSION: Using real-world direct medical cost data, we calculated a 
cost-utility ratio of 63,299 CHF/QALY for TSA in Switzerland, which clearly 
falls below the often-suggested 100,000-CHF/QALY threshold for acceptable 
cost-effectiveness. In view of productivity losses, TSA becomes highly 
cost-effective with an ICER of 35,546 CHF/QALY.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jse.2021.03.136
PMID: 33774171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Orv Hetil. 2021 Mar 28;162(13):497-503. doi: 10.1556/650.2021.31907.

[Primary coronary intervention in ST-elevation myocardial infarction].

[Article in Hungarian]

Voith L(1), Édes IF(1), Nowotta F(1), Skoda R(1), Bárczi G(1), Merkely B(1), 
Becker D(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Semmelweis Egyetem, Városmajori Szív- és Érgyógyászati Klinika, Budapest, 
Városmajor u. 68., 1122.

Összefoglaló. Bevezetés: Heveny myocardialis infarctusban a szívizommentés 
sikere, a beteg életkilátása nagymértékben függ a panasz kezdete és az 
elzáródott koszorúér rekanalizálása között eltelt ischaemiás időtől. Jelenleg az 
ér nyitása optimális esetben minden betegnél koszorúér-intervencióval történik. 
Célkitűzés: Annak vizsgálata, hogy öt év alatt mennyit változtak az ischaemiás 
idő összetevői, és miben változott az elzáródott ér nyitásának módszere 
ST-elevációs myocardialis infarctus (STEMI) miatt végzett primer 
coronariaintervencióban. Módszer: 2014. 01. 01. és 2018. 12. 31. között 1663, 
STEMI miatt koszorúér-intervencióval kezelt betegnél (1173 férfi és 490 nő) 
vizsgáltuk évenkénti bontásban a panasztól a koszorúér nyitásáig eltelt idő 
összetevőit és a 30 napos halálozást. Eredmények: Öt év alatt a panasztól az 
első egészségügyi kontaktusig medián 2:53 vs. 2:10 óra (p = 0,0132), ettől az 
intervenciós centrumba történt felvételig medián 1:17 vs. 1:03 óra (p = 0,009), 
a felvételtől a ballon nyitásáig medián 0:31 vs. 0:29 óra (p = ns) telt el. A 
panasztól a ballon nyitásáig eltelt idő (medián 5:29 vs. 4:07 óra, p = 0,0001) 
rövidült, döntően 2014 és 2015 között. A gyógyszerkibocsátó stent beültetése 
15%-ról 96%-ra nőtt. A vizsgált években a légzés/keringés támogatás aránya 
8,2-10,6-13,9-7,6-8,4, a 30 napos halálozásé 4,1-6,8-11,1-7,4-5,7% volt; a két 
érték korrelációt mutat (p = 0,827). Következtetés: Öt év alatt a panasztól az 
első egészségügyi kontaktusig és a kórházi beszállításig eltelt idő rövidült, de 
az Európai Kardiológiai Társaság ajánlásához képest hosszú; a kórházi 
felvételtől a ballon nyitásáig eltelt idő megfelelő. A négy órán belüli 
reperfúzió a betegek közel felében valósult meg. Az intervenciós centrumba való 
gyorsabb bekerülés javíthatna az eredményen. Orv Hetil. 2021; 162(13): 497-503.
INTRODUCTION: In acute myocardial infarction, the heart muscle salvage, the 
patient's life expectancy is highly dependent on the elapsed ischaemic time from 
the onset of complaint to target vessel recanalisation. Nowadays, target vessel 
recanalisation is performed with coronary intervention in all patients in 
optimal case.
OBJECTIVE: To examine how the components of ischemic time and the opening 
procedure of the occluded coronary have changed over five years in primary 
intervention done in acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI).
METHOD: Authors studied data of 1663 (1173 male and 480 female) STEMI patients 
in annual breakdowns treated with coronary intervention between 01. 01. 2014 and 
31. 12. 2018, time from complaint to coronary artery opening, details of 
intervention and 30 days mortality rate.
RESULTS: During the five years, time intervals were as follows: from onset of 
complaint to first medical contact: median 2:53 vs. 2:10 hours (p = 0.0132), 
from this to admission in the interventional centre: median 1:17 vs. 1:03 hours 
(p = 0.009), from hospital admission to balloon opening: median 0:31 vs. 0:29 
hours (p = ns). In total, the complaint to balloon opening time (median 5:29 vs. 
4:07 hours, p = 0.0001) diminished, decisively from 2014 to 2015. Ratio of 
drug-eluting stent implantation increased from 15% to 96%. In the investigated 
years, the need of respiratory and/or circulatory device support ratio was 
8.2-10.6-13.9-7.6-8.4, 30-day mortality rate between 4.1-6.8-11.1-7.4-5.7%; 
these two values showed a correlation (p = 0.827).
CONCLUSION: The time from complaint to first medical contact and transfer to 
hospital against the significant decrease is still longer than the 
recommendation of the European Society of Cardiology. The time from hospital 
admission to balloon opening is adequate. Reperfusion within four hours was 
achieved in half of the patients in total. Faster hospitalization may improve 
results. Orv Hetil. 2021; 162(13): 497-503.

DOI: 10.1556/650.2021.31907
PMID: 33774600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Public Health Nutr. 2021 Dec;24(17):5786-5794. doi:
10.1017/S1368980021001324.  Epub 2021 Mar 29.

Global patterns in vision loss burden due to vitamin A deficiency from 1990 to 
2017.

Xu Y(#)(1), Shan Y(#)(1), Lin X(#)(2), Miao Q(1), Lou L(1), Wang Y(1), Ye J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang 
University, College of Medicine, 88 Jiefang Road, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310009, 
China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, The Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Zhejiang University, College of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the vision loss burden due to vitamin A deficiency 
(VAD) at the global, regional and national levels by year, age, sex and 
socio-economic status using prevalence and years lived with disability (YLD).
DESIGN: International, retrospective, comparative burden-of-disease study.
SETTING: Prevalence and YLD data were extracted from the Global Burden of 
Disease (GBD) Study 2017. The association of age-standardised YLD rates and 
human development index (HDI) was tested by Pearson correlation and linear 
regression analyses. The Gini coefficient and concentration index (CI) were 
calculated to demonstrate the trends in between-country inequality in vision 
loss burden due to VAD.
PARTICIPANTS: All participants met the GBD inclusion criteria.
RESULTS: The age-standardised prevalence rate increased by 9·2 %, while the 
age-standardised YLD rates rose by 10·8 % from 1990 to 2017. Notably, the vision 
loss burden caused by VAD showed a declining trend since 2014. The vision loss 
burden was more concentrated in the post-neonatal age group and decreased with 
increasing age. The age-standardised YLD rates were inversely correlated with 
HDI (r = -0·2417, P = 0·0084). The CI and Gini coefficients indicated that 
socio-economic-related and between-country inequality declined from 2000 to 
2017. VAD was the eighth leading cause of the age-standardised prevalence rate 
and ninth leading cause of age-standardised YLD rate among fifteen causes of 
vision loss in 2017.
CONCLUSION: VAD has become one of the significant leading causes of vision loss 
globally. Efforts to control vision impairment related to VAD are needed, 
especially for children in countries with lower socio-economic status.

DOI: 10.1017/S1368980021001324
PMCID: PMC10195433
PMID: 33775269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. J Orthop Sci. 2022 Mar;27(2):420-428. doi: 10.1016/j.jos.2021.01.006. Epub
2021  Mar 26.

The application of platelet-rich plasma in the treatment of knee osteoarthritis: 
A literature review.

Li W(1), Pan J(1), Lu Z(2), Zhu H(1), Guo J(2), Xie D(3).

Author information:
(1)Academy of Orthopedics, Department of Orthopedic Surgery, The Third 
Affiliated Hospital of Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Academy of Orthopedics, Department of Orthopedic Surgery, The Third 
Affiliated Hospital of Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China; Department 
of Histology and Embryology, School of Basic Medical Science, Southern Medical 
University, Guangzhou, China.
(3)Academy of Orthopedics, Department of Orthopedic Surgery, The Third 
Affiliated Hospital of Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China. Electronic 
address: 13802408767@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Primary knee osteoarthritis remains a difficult-to-control 
degenerative disease. With the rise in average life expectancy and the incidence 
of obesity, osteoarthritis has brought an increasing economic and physical 
burden on people. This article summarizes the latest understanding of 
platelet-rich plasma in the treatment of knee osteoarthritis, and reviews the 
economic issues of PRP.
METHODS: The literatures in Pubmed, Embase, Cochrane library, Web-science and 
other databases were searched, and literature inclusion and exclusion criteria 
were formulated. According to the Cochrane systematic reviewer's manual, the 
included literatures were grouped, and qualitative descriptions and quantitative 
meta-analysis were performed. Continuous statistical methods were used to 
compare the effects and adverse effects of PRP before and after treatment, as 
well as between PRP and other conservative treatments.
RESULTS: A total of 12 randomized controlled trials were included in this study. 
A total of 959 KOA patients (1070 knees) were enrolled and followed for 3-12 
months. PRP total knee scores were significantly better than baseline at 1, 2, 
3, 6 and 12 months after treatment (1 month: SMD = 0.60, P < 0.01; 2 months: 
SMD = 0.98, P < 0.01; 3 months: SMD = 1.16, P < 0.01; 6 months: SMD = 1.49, 
P < 0.01; 12 months: SMD = 1.47, P < 0.01). In terms of adverse reactions, PRP 
did not increase the risk of adverse events compared with HA (OR = 0.96, 
P = 0.85).
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with many other treatment methods, intra-articular 
injection of PRP has been proven to be safe and effective to improve the quality 
of life of patients with KOA.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jos.2021.01.006
PMID: 33775509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


553. J Epidemiol. 2022 Oct 5;32(10):456-463. doi: 10.2188/jea.JE20200574. Epub
2021  Aug 11.

Association Between Social Participation and Disability-free Life Expectancy in 
Japanese Older People: The Ohsaki Cohort 2006 Study.

Matsuyama S(1), Murakami Y(2), Lu Y(1), Sone T(1), Sugawara Y(1), Tsuji I(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, Department of Health Informatics and Public Health, 
School of Public Health, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine.
(2)Department of Medical Statistics, Faculty of Medicine, Toho University.

BACKGROUND: Although social participation has been reported to be associated 
with significantly lower risks of mortality and disability, to our knowledge, no 
study has estimated its impact on disability-free life expectancy (DFLE). 
Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the association between social 
participation and DFLE in community-dwelling older people.
METHODS: We analyzed 11-year follow-up data from a cohort study of 11,982 
Japanese older adults (age ≥65 years) in 2006. We collected information on the 
number of social participations using a questionnaire. Using this information, 
we categorized the participants into four groups. DFLE was defined as the 
average number of years a person could expect to live without disability. The 
multistate life table method using a Markov model was employed for calculating 
DFLE.
RESULTS: The results revealed that DFLE according to the number of social 
participations was 17.8 years (95% confidence interval [CI], 17.3-18.2) for no 
activities, 20.9 (95% CI, 20.4-21.5) for one activity, 21.5 (95% CI, 20.9-22.0) 
for two activities, and 22.7 (95% CI, 22.1-23.2) for three activities in men, 
and 21.8 (95% CI, 21.5-22.2), 25.1 (95% CI, 24.6-25.6), 25.3 (95% CI, 
24.7-25.9), and 26.7 years (95% CI, 26.1-27.4), respectively, in women. This 
difference in DFLE did not change after the participants were stratified for 
smoking, body mass index, physical activity, and depression.
CONCLUSION: Social participation is associated with longer DFLE among Japanese 
older people; therefore, encouraging social participation at the population 
level could increase life-years lived in good health.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.JE20200574
PMCID: PMC9424187
PMID: 33775973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: None declared.


554. Cureus. 2021 Mar 24;13(3):e14073. doi: 10.7759/cureus.14073.

Therapeutic Futility in Terminal Cancer Patients: A Retrospective and 
Observational Study.

Graça J(1), Vasconcelos de Matos L(1), Baleiras AM(1), Ferreira F(1), Costa 
R(2), Pinto MM(1), Martins A(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology, Centro Hospitalar Lisboa Ocidental - Hospital São Francisco 
Xavier, Lisbon, PRT.
(2)Internal Medicine, Hospital da Luz, Lisboa, PRT.

Introduction Advanced cancer patients often need therapy for symptomatic 
control, in addition to cancer and other disease treatments. As the cancer 
disease progresses and life expectancy decreases, there should be a change in 
the goal of care. If this change is not accompanied by therapeutic adjustments, 
there is a risk of maintaining useless and ineffective treatments, as well as 
potential harmful drug interactions. This study analyzed the prevalence of 
therapeutic futility in patients with advanced cancer disease. Materials and 
methods This was a retrospective and observational single-center study, that 
included advanced cancer patients who died during the hospital stay, at a 
University Hospital in Lisbon, Portugal. Demographic and clinical data were 
collected. A Palliative Prognostic Score (PaP) was used to stratify patients 
according to their prognosis group. An analysis of the prescribed therapy was 
performed to quantify the "potentially inappropriate medications" (PIMs) and 
"inappropriate medications" (IMs), at admission and 24 hours prior to the 
patient's death. Results Over 140 patients were included. On the first day of 
hospitalization, 119 patients (85%) were exposed to at least one IM or PIM and 
100 patients (71%) were still exposed to at least one IM or PIM in the last 24 
hours of life. Regarding chemotherapy, 66 patients (47%) had treatment in the 
last two months of life, 38 (27%) in the last month, and 17 (12%) in the last 
two weeks prior to death. Therapeutic simplification (suspension of IMs and 
reduction of at least 50% of PIMs during hospitalization) was performed in 43% 
of the overall population and was higher in PaP score group C, but not 
statistically significant (p=0.09). The patient's inclusion in PaP score group C 
and inpatient consultation by the palliative care team were independent 
predictors of therapeutic simplification. Discussion There is an effort to 
achieve greater therapeutic suitability in palliative patients. However, many 
patients maintain futile and disproportionate therapy at the end of life (EoL). 
In many cases, systemic cancer treatment is performed until quite late in the 
course of the disease. The prescription of PIMs was significantly higher than 
that of IMs, which could be expected given their definition. A shorter life 
expectancy at admission led to a greater therapeutic simplification, as well as 
an intervention by the Palliative Care Team, which can be explained by the more 
focused approach towards quality-of-life improvement and symptomatic control. 
Different than expected the prescription of supportive therapies at hospital 
admission was not a predictor of therapeutic simplification. Although there was 
a reduction in IMs and PIMs in the studied population, and therapeutic 
simplification occurred in one fraction of the patients, the fact is that more 
than half of the patients evaluated did not undergo therapeutic simplification 
as defined in this work. Conclusion It appears that there is an effort to 
achieve greater therapeutic suitability in palliative patients, however, many 
patients maintain futile therapy at the EoL. It is of paramount importance to 
change the standard of care in this setting, to privilege a more patient-focused 
approach and tailored therapy, and to prioritize symptomatic control and 
quality-of-life improvement.

Copyright © 2021, Graça et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.14073
PMCID: PMC7988361
PMID: 33777589

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


555. Front Cell Dev Biol. 2021 Mar 11;9:656201. doi: 10.3389/fcell.2021.656201. 
eCollection 2021.

Targeting the Mitochondria-Proteostasis Axis to Delay Aging.

Zimmermann A(1)(2), Madreiter-Sokolowski C(3), Stryeck S(4), Abdellatif 
M(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Biosciences, University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(2)Field of Excellence BioHealth - University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(3)Gottfried Schatz Research Center, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(4)Institute of Interactive Systems and Data Science, Graz University of 
Technology, Graz, Austria.
(5)Department of Cardiology, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(6)Metabolomics and Cell Biology Platforms, Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, 
France.
(7)Centre de Recherche des Cordeliers, Equipe Labellisée Par la Ligue Contre le 
Cancer, Université de Paris, Sorbonne Université, INSERM U1138, Institut 
Universitaire de France, Paris, France.

Human life expectancy continues to grow globally, and so does the prevalence of 
age-related chronic diseases, causing a huge medical and economic burden on 
society. Effective therapeutic options for these disorders are scarce, and even 
if available, are typically limited to a single comorbidity in a multifaceted 
dysfunction that inevitably affects all organ systems. Thus, novel therapies 
that target fundamental processes of aging itself are desperately needed. In 
this article, we summarize current strategies that successfully delay aging and 
related diseases by targeting mitochondria and protein homeostasis. In 
particular, we focus on autophagy, as a fundamental proteostatic process that is 
intimately linked to mitochondrial quality control. We present genetic and 
pharmacological interventions that effectively extend health- and life-span by 
acting on specific mitochondrial and pro-autophagic molecular targets. In the 
end, we delve into the crosstalk between autophagy and mitochondria, in what we 
refer to as the mitochondria-proteostasis axis, and explore the prospect of 
targeting this crosstalk to harness maximal therapeutic potential of anti-aging 
interventions.

Copyright © 2021 Zimmermann, Madreiter-Sokolowski, Stryeck and Abdellatif.

DOI: 10.3389/fcell.2021.656201
PMCID: PMC7991595
PMID: 33777963

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


556. Front Nutr. 2021 Mar 9;8:645747. doi: 10.3389/fnut.2021.645747. eCollection 
2021.

Fish Protein Ingestion Induces Neural, but Not Muscular Adaptations, Following 
Resistance Training in Young Adults.

Watanabe K(1), Holobar A(2), Uchida K(3), Mita Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neuromuscular Biomechanics, Faculty of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences and School of International Liberal Studies, Chukyo University, Nagoya, 
Japan.
(2)Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of 
Maribor, Maribor, Slovenia.
(3)Nihon Suisan Kaisha, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Department of Human Nutrition, School of Life Studies, Sugiyama Jogakuen 
University, Nagoya, Japan.

Purpose: Nutritional supplementation in conjunction with exercise is of interest 
for the prevention or improvement of declines in motor performances in older 
adults. An understanding of the effects on both young and older adults 
contributes to its effective application. We investigated the effect of fish 
protein ingestion with resistance training on neural and muscular adaptations in 
young adults using interventions and assessments that have already been tested 
in older adults. Methods: Eighteen young adults underwent 8 weeks of isometric 
knee extension training. During the intervention, nine participants ingested 5 g 
of fish protein (n = 9, Alaska pollack protein, APP), and the other nine 
participants ingested casein as a control (n = 9, CAS) in addition to daily 
meals. Before, during, and after the intervention, the isometric knee extension 
force, lower extremity muscle mass, and motor unit firing pattern of knee 
extensor muscles were measured. Results: Maximum voluntary contraction (MVC) was 
significantly increased in both APP and CAS groups from 0 weeks to 4, 6, and 8 
weeks of intervention (p < 0.001), but there were no significant differences 
between the groups (p = 0.546-0.931). Muscle mass was not significantly changed 
during the intervention in either group (p = 0.250-0.698). Significant changes 
in motor unit firing rates (p = 0.02 and 0.029 for motor units recruited at 
20-40% of MVC and at 40-60%) were observed following the intervention in the APP 
but not CAS (p = 0.120-0.751) group. Conclusions: These results suggest that 
dietary fish protein ingestion changes motor unit adaptations following 
resistance training in young adults.

Copyright © 2021 Watanabe, Holobar, Uchida and Mita.

DOI: 10.3389/fnut.2021.645747
PMCID: PMC7993090
PMID: 33777994

Conflict of interest statement: KU was employed by Nihon Suisan Kaisha, Ltd. The 
remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any 
commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential 
conflict of interest. The authors declare that this study received funding from 
Nihon Suisan Kaisha, Ltd. The funder had the following involvement with the 
study: research design.


557. ACS Omega. 2021 Mar 12;6(11):7387-7393. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.0c05662. 
eCollection 2021 Mar 23.

Mechanism of Elastic Properties of Biodegradable 
Poly[(R)-3-Hydroxybutyrate-co-4-hydroxybutyrate] Films Revealed by Synchrotron 
Radiation.

Kawamura Y(1)(2), Gan H(1)(2), Kabe T(1)(2)(3), Maehara A(4), Kimura S(1)(2), 
Hikima T(5), Takata M(2)(6), Iwata T(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Science of Polymeric Materials, Department of Biomaterial Sciences, Graduate 
School of Agriculture and Life Science, The University of Tokyo, 1-1-1 Yayoi, 
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8657, Japan.
(2)Materials Visualization Photon Science Group, RIKEN, SPring-8 Center, 1-1-1 
Kouto, Sayo-cho, Sayo-gun, Hyogo 679-5148, Japan.
(3)Materials Structure Group I, The Research and Utilization Division, Japan 
Synchrotron Radiation Research Institute (JASRI), 1-1-1 Kouto, Sayo-cho, 
Sayo-gun, Hyogo 679-5148, Japan.
(4)Niigata Research Laboratory, Mitsubishi Gas Chemical co., Inc., 182, 
Tayuhama, Kita-ku, Niigata, Niigata 950-3112, Japan.
(5)Research Infrastructure Group, RIKEN, Harima Institute/SPring-8 Center, 1-1-1 
Kouto, Sayo-cho, Sayo-gun, Hyogo 679-5148, Japan.
(6)Institute of Multidisciplinary Research for Advanced Materials (IMRAM), 
Tohoku University, Katahira 2-1-1, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8577, Japan.

Reversible elastic films of biobased and biodegradable 
poly[(R)-3-hydroxybutyrate-co-4-hydroxybutyrate] [P(3HB-co-4HB)] were prepared 
by uniaxial drawing procedures. Mechanical properties and highly ordered film 
structures were investigated by tensile testing and both static-state and in 
situ wide-angle X-ray diffraction and small-angle X-ray scattering with 
synchrotron radiation during stretching and relaxing. Despite the crystalline 
nature of the polymers, the elongation at break of these films was greater than 
1500%. Reversible elasticity was achieved after the first 10 times of uniaxial 
stretching. X-ray measurement results indicated that on stretching, β-form 
molecular chains with a planar zigzag conformation were introduced from 
molecular chains with random coils in the amorphous regions between α-form 
lamellar crystals. Notably, the orientation of the α-form lamellar crystals 
increased after relaxation of the molecular chains with a planar zigzag 
conformation (β-form) between the lamellar crystals (α-form). Reversible elastic 
properties were regenerated by a planar zigzag conformation between the lamellar 
crystals, the extension of molecular chains in lamellar crystals by the rotation 
of molecular conformation, and changes in the degree of orientation of the 
lamellar crystals.

© 2021 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.0c05662
PMCID: PMC7992085
PMID: 33778251

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


558. JBMR Plus. 2021 Feb 16;5(3):e10466. doi: 10.1002/jbm4.10466. eCollection
2021  Mar.

Longitudinal Functional Study of Murine Aging: A Resource for Future Study 
Designs.

Evans DS(1), O'Leary MN(2), Murphy R(2), Schmidt M(2), Koenig K(2), Presley 
M(2), Garrett B(2), Kim HN(3), Han L(3), Academia EC(2), Laye MJ(2), Edgar D(2), 
Zambataro CA(2), Barhydt T(2), Dewey CM(2), Mayfield J(2), Wilson J(2), Alavez 
S(2), Lucanic M(4), Kennedy BK(2), Almeida M(3), Andersen JK(2), Kapahi P(2), 
Lithgow GJ(2), Melov S(2).

Author information:
(1)California Pacific Medical Center Research Institute San Francisco CA USA.
(2)The Buck Institute for Research on Aging Novato CA USA.
(3)University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences Little Rock AR USA.
(4)Gerostate Alpha Novato CA USA.

Aging is characterized by systemic declines in tissue and organ functions. 
Interventions that slow these declines represent promising therapeutics to 
protect against age-related disease and improve the quality of life. In this 
study, several interventions associated with lifespan extension in invertebrates 
or improvement of age-related disease were tested in mouse models to determine 
if they were effective in slowing tissue aging in a broad spectrum of functional 
assays. Benzoxazole, which extends the lifespan of Caenorhabditis elegans, 
slowed age-related femoral bone loss in mice. Rates of change were established 
for clinically significant parameters in untreated mice, including kyphosis, 
blood glucose, body composition, activity, metabolic measures, and detailed 
parameters of skeletal aging in bone. These findings have implications for the 
study of preclinical physiological aging and therapies targeting aging. Finally, 
an online application was created that includes the calculated rates of change 
and that enables power and variance to be calculated for many clinically 
important metrics of aging with an emphasis on bone. This resource will help in 
future study designs employing novel interventions in aging mice. © 2021 The 
Authors. JBMR Plus published by Wiley Periodicals LLC. on behalf of American 
Society for Bone and Mineral Research.

© 2021 The Authors. JBMR Plus published by Wiley Periodicals LLC. on behalf of 
American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.

DOI: 10.1002/jbm4.10466
PMCID: PMC7990142
PMID: 33778327


559. Am J Epidemiol. 2021 Sep 1;190(9):1751-1759. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwab088.

Trends in "Deaths of Despair" Among Working-Aged White and Black Americans, 
1990-2017.

Tilstra AM, Simon DH, Masters RK.

Comment in
    Am J Epidemiol. 2022 Jan 24;191(2):363-365.
    Am J Epidemiol. 2022 Jan 24;191(2):363-365.

Life expectancy for US White men and women declined between 2013 and 2017. 
Initial explanations for the decline focused on increases in "deaths of despair" 
(i.e., deaths from suicide, drug use, and alcohol use), which have been 
interpreted as a cohort-based phenomenon afflicting middle-aged White Americans. 
There has been less attention on Black mortality trends from these same causes, 
and whether the trends are similar or different by cohort and period. We 
complement existing research and contend that recent mortality trends in both 
the US Black and White populations most likely reflect period-based exposures to 
1) the US opioid epidemic and 2) the Great Recession. We analyzed cause-specific 
mortality trends in the United States for deaths from suicide, drug use, and 
alcohol use among non-Hispanic Black and non-Hispanic White Americans, aged 
20-64 years, over 1990-2017. We employed sex-, race-, and 
cause-of-death-stratified Poisson rate models and age-period-cohort models to 
compare mortality trends. Results indicate that rising "deaths of despair" for 
both Black and White Americans are overwhelmingly driven by period-based 
increases in drug-related deaths since the late 1990s. Further, deaths related 
to alcohol use and suicide among both White and Black Americans changed during 
the Great Recession, despite some racial differences across cohorts.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwab088
PMCID: PMC8579049
PMID: 33778856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2021 May;27(5):650-659. doi:
10.18553/jmcp.2021.20471.  Epub 2021 Mar 29.

For which diseases do broader value elements matter most? An evaluation across 
20 ICER evidence reports.

Shafrin J(1), Dennen S(1), Pednekar P(1), Birch K(1), Bhor M(2), Kanter J(3), 
Neumann P(4).

Author information:
(1)PRECISIONheor, Los Angeles, CA.
(2)Exact Sciences Corporation, Madison, WI.
(3)University of Alabama at Birmingham.
(4)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for Clinical 
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA.

BACKGROUND: U.S. value framework developers such as the Institute for Clinical 
and Economic Review (ICER) use cost-effectiveness analysis to value new health 
care technologies. Often, these value assessment frameworks use a health system 
perspective without fully accounting for societal and broader benefits and costs 
of an intervention. Although there is ongoing debate about the most appropriate 
methods for including broader value elements in value assessment, it remains 
unclear whether the inclusion of these value elements is likely to affect the 
quantitative estimates of treatment value. OBJECTIVE: To assess variations in 
the relevance of broader value elements to cost-effectiveness analysis across 
diseases. METHODS: Thirty-two broader value elements (e.g., caregiver burden, 
health equity, real option value, productivity) not traditionally included in 
health technology assessments were identified through a targeted literature 
review. Evidence reports published by ICER between July 2017 and January 2020 
were evaluated to identify which broader value elements were discussed as 
relevant to each disease in the report text. The study examined whether there 
were associations among ICER's discussion of broader value elements, rare 
disease status, treatment cost, estimated treatment cost-effectiveness, and ICER 
committee voting results for contextual considerations and additional 
benefits/disadvantages. RESULTS: The most commonly cited broader value element 
category in the ICER evidence reports was household and leisure (e.g., 
absenteeism from normal activities and caregiver burden). More value elements 
were cited for inherited retinal disease (19 elements) and sickle cell disease 
(18 elements) than for other diseases. Cardiovascular disease and diabetes had 
the fewest number of value elements cited (7 elements). Rare diseases were more 
likely to have broader value elements cited compared with nonrare diseases (15.9 
vs. 11.5, P < 0.001). Treatments with higher (i.e., less favorable) incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were more likely to have a greater number of broader 
value elements cited (ρ = 0.625, P < 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: The presence of 
broader value elements varied across diseases, with less cost-effective 
treatments more likely to have a higher number of relevant broader value 
elements. Inclusion of all relevant value elements in value assessments will 
more appropriately incentivize innovation and improve allocation of research 
funding. DISCLOSURES: This study was sponsored by Novartis Pharmaceutical 
Corporation. At the time of this study, Shafrin was employed by PRECISIONheor, a 
consultancy to the life sciences industry that received financial support from 
Novartis to conduct this study. Dennen, Pednekar, and Birch are employed by 
PRECISIONheor. Bhor was an employee of Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation at 
the time this research was conducted and manuscript was developed and reports 
grants from Novartis, unrelated to this work. Kanter has served on scientific 
advisory boards and steering committees for and reports receiving consulting 
fees from Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation and is a site principal 
investigator on studies funded by Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation. Kantar 
also reports support from Sickle Cell Disease Association of America Inc. and 
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, unrelated to this work. Neumann 
reports advisory boards or consulting fees from Novartis Pharmaceutical 
Corporation and PRECISIONheor, as well as advisory boards or consulting fees 
unrelated to this study from AbbVie, Amgen, Avexis, Bayer, Congressional Budget 
Office, Janssen, Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Precision Health Economics, 
Veritech, Vertex; funding from The CEA Registry Sponsors by various 
pharmaceutical and medical device companies; and grants from Amgen, Lundbeck, 
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, National Pharmaceutical Council, Alzheimer's 
Association, and the National Institutes for Health.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2021.20471
PMCID: PMC10394200
PMID: 33779245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: This study was sponsored by Novartis 
Pharmaceutical Corporation. At the time of this study, Shafrin was employed by 
PRECISIONheor, a consultancy to the life sciences industry that received 
financial support from Novartis to conduct this study. Dennen, Pednekar, and 
Birch are employed by PRECISIONheor. Bhor was an employee of Novartis 
Pharmaceutical Corporation at the time this research was conducted and 
manuscript was developed and reports grants from Novartis, unrelated to this 
work. Kanter has served on scientific advisory boards and steering committees 
for and reports receiving consulting fees from Novartis Pharmaceutical 
Corporation and is a site principal investigator on studies funded by Novartis 
Pharmaceutical Corporation. Kantar also reports support from Sickle Cell Disease 
Association of America Inc. and National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, 
unrelated to this work. Neumann reports advisory boards or consulting fees from 
Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation and PRECISIONheor, as well as advisory 
boards or consulting fees unrelated to this study from AbbVie, Amgen, Avexis, 
Bayer, Congressional Budget Office, Janssen, Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, 
Precision Health Economics, Veritech, Vertex; funding from The CEA Registry 
Sponsors by various pharmaceutical and medical device companies; and grants from 
Amgen, Lundbeck, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, National Pharmaceutical 
Council, Alzheimer’s Association, and the National Institutes for Health.


561. Endocr Pract. 2021 Mar;27(3):228-235. doi: 10.1016/j.eprac.2020.12.004. Epub
 2020 Dec 14.

Life Expectancy and Treatment Patterns in Elderly Patients With Low-Risk 
Papillary Thyroid Cancer: A Population-Based Analysis.

Lohia S(1), Gupta P(1), Curry M(2), Morris LGT(1), Roman BR(3).

Author information:
(1)Head and Neck Service, Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York.
(2)Health Outcomes Research Group, Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, 
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York.
(3)Head and Neck Service, Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York. Electronic address: 
romanb@mskcc.org.

OBJECTIVE: Guidelines endorse active surveillance for low-risk papillary thyroid 
carcinoma (PTC), but this is not commonly utilized. Those with limited life 
expectancy due to age and comorbidity may be best suited for active surveillance 
given their higher likelihood of other-cause mortality compared to 
disease-specific mortality.
METHODS: Surveillance, epidemiology, and end results-Medicare was queried for 
patients >65 years with T1, N0, M0 PTC who received surgery. We evaluated the 
overall survival, disease-specific survival (DSS), and survival based on tumor 
size and extent of surgery (hemi- vs total thyroidectomy). We created a 
competing risk model to identify the cumulative incidence of other-cause 
mortality to define patient groups with life expectancies of less than 10 and 15 
years.
RESULTS: A total of 3280 patients were included. The 20-year overall survival 
and DSS were 38.2% and 98.5%, respectively. DSS was comparable between patients 
based on tumor size and surgery. The cancer cohort had better survival compared 
to matched controls (P < .001). Life expectancy was less than 15 years for any 
patient aged >80 years regardless of Charlson comorbidity score (CCS ≥ 0) and 
any patient aged >70 years with CCS ≥ 1. Life expectancy was less than 10 years 
for any patient a >80 years with CCS ≥ 1 and aged >70 years with CCS ≥ 3.
CONCLUSION: Older patients with comorbidities have limited life expectancies but 
excellent DSS from low-risk PTC. Incorporating life expectancy into management 
decisions and guidelines would likely promote selection of less aggressive 
management for populations that are most suited for this approach.

Copyright © 2020 AACE. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eprac.2020.12.004
PMCID: PMC8381738
PMID: 33779556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest.


562. JAMA Netw Open. 2021 Mar 1;4(3):e213497. doi:
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2021.3497.

Cost-effectiveness of Novel Treatment Sequences for Transplant-Ineligible 
Patients With Multiple Myeloma.

Blommestein HM(1), Franken MG(2), van Beurden-Tan CHY(3), Blijlevens NMA(4), 
Huijgens PC(5), Sonneveld P(3), Uyl-de Groot CA(1)(2), Zweegman S(5).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus School of Health Policy & Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(2)Institute of Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus School of Health Policy & 
Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Hematology, Erasmus Medical Center Cancer Institute, Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Hematology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, the 
