
375. Curr Health Sci J. 2020 Oct-Dec;46(4):420-432. doi: 10.12865/CHSJ.46.04.14.
Epub  2020 Dec 31.

Involvement of Oxidative Stress in Resistance to Tyrosine-Kinase Inhibitors 
Therapy in Chronic Myeloid Leukemia.

Pascu VÎnturiŞ EG(1), GĂman AM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Medicine and Pharmacy of Craiova, Romania.
(2)Department of Hematology, Filantropia Municipal Hospital, Craiova, Romania.

Oxidative stress involves disruption of the cellular redox status through 
excessive production of reactive oxygen species or through deficiency in the 
cellular antioxidant capacity. It is involved in the pathogeny of multiple 
entities (hematological diseases, metabolic disorders, cardiovascular and renal 
pathology etc.), as well as in the pharmacokinetics of specific treatments for 
these pathologies. Chronic myeloid leukemia is a chronic myeloproliferative 
disease for which current standard treatment is BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors. The innovation of this therapy has significantly improved life 
expectancy for patients with chronic myeloid leukemia, but in some cases, this 
treatment becomes ineffective, installing the resistance to tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors therapy. There were described two types of tyrosin kinase inhibitors 
resistance: primary and secondary resistance. In the present paper we proposed 
to evaluate the involvement of oxidative in the resistance to tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors therapy, in the clonal instability in chronic myeloid leukemia and in 
the progression of the disease to an advanced stage. We concluded that oxidative 
stress can play a dual role in the evolution of chronic myeloid leukemia: on the 
one hand it can promote genomic instability and accelerate the progression of 
the disease to advanced stages associated with tyrosin kinase inhibitors 
resistance and, on the other hand, it can contribute to leukemic cell apoptosis. 
It seems to be outlined a fragile balance between the pro- and anti-apoptotic 
effects of the reactive oxygen species, closely related to their level in the 
leukemic cells.

Copyright © 2014, Medical University Publishing House Craiova.

DOI: 10.12865/CHSJ.46.04.14
PMCID: PMC7948018
PMID: 33717518

Conflict of interest statement: None to declare.


376. Prev Med Rep. 2021 Feb 23;22:101337. doi: 10.1016/j.pmedr.2021.101337. 
eCollection 2021 Jun.

Unnatural-cause mortality patterns of Northern Finnish men and women diverge in 
adolescence - A 52-year follow-up.

Junno JA(1)(2)(3), Pakanen L(4)(5), Oura P(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Cancer and Translational Medicine Research Unit, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland.
(2)Department of Archaeology, Faculty of Humanities, University of Oulu, Oulu, 
Finland.
(3)Archaeology, Faculty of Arts, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(4)Forensic Medicine Unit, Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare, Oulu, 
Finland.
(5)Department of Forensic Medicine, Research Unit of Internal Medicine, Medical 
Research Center Oulu, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland.
(6)Department of Forensic Medicine, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(7)Forensic Medicine Unit, Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare, Helsinki, 
Finland.
(8)Center for Life Course Health Research, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Oulu, Oulu, Finland.

The Finnish population has a long life expectancy but ranks high in unnatural 
deaths on the European scale. Mortality has historical regional discrepancy in 
Finland, as Northern Finns are overrepresented in both natural and unnatural 
deaths. This study aimed to characterize the age- and sex-related trends in 
unnatural mortality among Northern Finns. Altogether 12 143 individuals, 
constituting >95% of births in Northern Finland in 1966, were followed up for a 
median of 52 years. The mortality patterns of this population were studied using 
death record data. Crude annual mortality rates were calculated and graphed for 
10-year age strata (all-cause, natural-cause, and unnatural-cause mortality, as 
well as accident, suicide, and homicide mortality). Cox regression was used to 
analyze the sex discrepancy in mortality. A total of 874 deaths (7.2%) occurred 
during the follow-up period. Women had 47% and 73% lower risks of any death and 
unnatural death than men, respectively. From the second decade of life onwards, 
the unnatural mortality of men was 3-5 times that of women. Accident and suicide 
mortality rates of men were 2-13 and 2-3 times those of women, respectively. 
Homicides were rare among either sex. We conclude that Northern Finnish women 
have a substantially lower risk of all-cause mortality and unnatural mortality 
than men. To aid the development of preventive strategies, future studies should 
aim to identify the underlying factors behind unnatural mortality. Primarily, 
emphasis should be placed on the increased mortality of men from the second 
decade of life onwards.

© 2021 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.pmedr.2021.101337
PMCID: PMC7921868
PMID: 33717861

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


377. Small. 2021 May;17(21):e2007011. doi: 10.1002/smll.202007011. Epub 2021 Mar
14.

Intermolecular Interaction Control Enables Co-optimization of Efficiency, 
Deformability, Mechanical and Thermal Stability of Stretchable Organic Solar 
Cells.

Zhu Q(1), Xue J(1), Zhang L(2), Wen J(2), Lin B(1), Naveed HB(1), Bi Z(1), Xin 
J(1), Zhao H(1), Zhao C(1), Zhou K(1), Frank Liu S(2), Ma W(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Mechanical Behavior of Materials Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, Xi'an, 710049, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Applied Surface and Colloid Chemistry, Ministry of 
Education, Shaanxi Key Laboratory for Advanced Energy Devices, Shaanxi 
Engineering Lab for Advanced Energy Technology, School of Materials Science and 
Engineering, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an, 710119, China.

Promoting efficiency, deformability, and life expectancy of stretchable organic 
solar cells (OSCs) have always been key concerns that researchers are committed 
to solving. However, how to improve them simultaneously remains challenging, as 
morphology parameters, such as ordered molecular arrangement, beneficial for 
highly efficient devices actually limits mechanical stability and deformability. 
In this study, the unfavorable trade-off among these properties has been 
reconciled in an all-polymer model system utilizing a mechanically deformable 
guest component. The success of this strategy stems from introducing a highly 
ductile component without compromising the pristine optimized morphology. 
Preferable interaction between two donors can maintain the fiber-like structure 
while enhancing the photocurrent to improve efficiency. Morphology evolution 
detected via grazing incidence X-ray scattering and in situ UV-vis absorption 
spectra during stretching have verified the critical role of strengthened 
interaction on stabilizing morphology against external forces. The strengthened 
interaction also benefits thermal stability, enabling the ternary films with 
small efficiency degradation after heating 1500 h under 80 °C. This work 
highlights the effect of morphology evolution on mechanical stability and 
provides new insights from the view of intermolecular interaction to fabricate 
highly efficient, stable, and stretchable/wearable OSCs.

© 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/smll.202007011
PMID: 33719196


378. Front Genet. 2021 Feb 25;12:634986. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2021.634986.
eCollection  2021.

Genetic Parameters and Genome-Wide Association Studies of Eight Longevity Traits 
Representing Either Full or Partial Lifespan in Chinese Holsteins.

Zhang H(1), Liu A(1)(2), Wang Y(1), Luo H(1), Yan X(1), Guo X(2), Li X(1), Liu 
L(3), Su G(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Genetics, Breeding and Reproduction, MARA, National 
Engineering Laboratory of Animal Breeding, College of Animal Science and 
Technology, China Agricultural University, Beijing, China.
(2)Center for Quantitative Genetics and Genomics, Aarhus University, Tjele, 
Denmark.
(3)Beijing Dairy Cattle Center, Beijing, China.

Due to the complexity of longevity trait in dairy cattle, two groups of trait 
definitions are widely used to measure longevity, either covering the full 
lifespan or representing only a part of it to achieve an early selection. 
Usually, only one group of longevity definition is used in breeding program for 
one population, and genetic studies on the comparisons of two groups of trait 
definitions are scarce. Based on the data of eight traits well representing the 
both groups of trait definitions, the current study investigated genetic 
parameters and genetic architectures of longevity in Holsteins. Heritabilities 
and correlations of eight longevity traits were estimated using single-trait and 
multi-trait animal models, with the data from 103,479 cows. Among the cows with 
phenotypes, 2,630 cows were genotyped with the 150K-SNP panel. A single-trait 
fixed and random Circuitous Probability Unification model was performed to 
detect candidate genes for eight longevity traits. Generally, all eight 
longevity traits had low heritabilities, ranging from 0.038 for total productive 
life and herd life to 0.090 for days from the first calving to the end of first 
lactation or culling. High genetic correlations were observed among the traits 
within the same definition group: from 0.946 to 0.997 for three traits 
reflecting full lifespan and from 0.666 to 0.997 for five traits reflecting 
partial productive life. Genetic correlations between two groups of traits 
ranged from 0.648 to 0.963, and increased gradually with the extension of 
lactations number regarding the partial productive life traits. A total of 55 
SNPs located on 25 chromosomes were found genome-wide significantly associated 
with longevity, in which 12 SNPs were associated with more than one trait, even 
across traits of different definition groups. This is the first study to 
investigate the genetic architecture of longevity representing both full and the 
partial lifespan simultaneously, which will assist the selection of an 
appropriate trait definition for genetic improvement of longevity. Because of 
high genetic correlations with the full lifespan traits and higher heritability, 
the partial productive life trait measured as the days from the first calving to 
the end of the third lactation or culling could be a good alternative for early 
selection on longevity. The candidate genes identified by this study, such as 
RPRM, GRIA3, GTF2H5, CA5A, CACNA2D1, FGF10, and DNAJA3, could be used to 
pinpoint causative mutations for longevity and further benefit the genomic 
improvement of longevity in dairy cattle.

Copyright © 2021 Zhang, Liu, Wang, Luo, Yan, Guo, Li, Liu and Su.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2021.634986
PMCID: PMC7947242
PMID: 33719343

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


379. Br J Community Nurs. 2021 Mar 2;26(3):122-129. doi:
10.12968/bjcn.2021.26.3.122.

Pre-hospital use of early warning scores to improve detection and outcomes of 
sepsis.

Maciver M(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Nurse, Department of Nursing and Midwifery, University of the 
Highlands and Islands.

Sepsis is a life-threatening complication from infection. The early detection of 
sepsis pre-hospital is challenging. Early warning scores (EWS) are used in 
hospitals to identify deteriorating patients. The pre-hospital setting could be 
a beneficial extension to the use of EWSs. This review aimed to determine 
whether EWSs can identify patients with sepsis pre-hospital and predict patient 
outcomes. Bibliographic databases were searched for studies evaluating the 
pre-hospital use of EWSs. Studies were screened using eligibility criteria. Two 
studies examined the ability of pre-hospital EWSs to identify patients with 
critical illness, showing high sensitivity but low specificity. Four studies 
determined the prognostic effects of the National Early Warning Score (NEWS). 
The patients identified by NEWS to be high-risk were associated with worse 
outcomes. This systematic review demonstrated the successful use of EWSs in the 
pre-hospital setting, in identifying patients most at risk of deterioration and 
as a useful tool for decision-making.

DOI: 10.12968/bjcn.2021.26.3.122
PMID: 33719557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. J Am Acad Orthop Surg. 2021 Jun 1;29(11):470-477. doi:
10.5435/JAAOS-D-19-00866.

Treatment of Valgus-Impacted and Nondisplaced Femoral Neck Fragility Fractures 
in the Elderly.

Kamara E(1), Zvi YS, Vail TP.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, 
NY (Kamara and Zvi), and the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of 
California-San Francisco, San Francisco, CA (Vail).

As the life expectancy of the worldwide population increases, the number of hip 
fractures in the elderly cohort is expected to grow. It is important for 
surgeons to critically analyze available treatment options for these injuries, 
with the goal of optimizing outcomes and minimizing complications. Femoral neck 
fractures make up approximately half of all hip fractures. Nonoperative 
treatment of valgus-impacted and nondisplaced (Garden I and II) femoral neck 
fractures has high rates of secondary displacement, osteonecrosis, and nonunion; 
only patients with notable risk for perioperative complications are treated 
nonoperatively. Surgical intervention is the standard of care, with options 
including internal fixation (IF) with multiple cancellous screws or a sliding 
hip screw, hemiarthroplasty, or total hip arthroplasty. Patients with a 
posterior tilt of greater than 20° have a high rate of revision surgery when 
treated with IF and may benefit from primary arthroplasty. Furthermore, primary 
arthroplasty has demonstrated lower revision surgery rates and equivalent 
postoperative mortality when compared with IF. Surgeons should be aware of the 
functional outcomes, complications, revision surgery rates, and mortality rates 
associated with each treatment modality to make a patient-specific decision 
regarding their care.

Copyright © 2021 by the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons.

DOI: 10.5435/JAAOS-D-19-00866
PMID: 33720080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2021 Mar 15;165:D5415.

[Viability testing of discarded donor livers; More livers fit for 
transplantation because of machine perfusion].

[Article in Dutch]

van Leeuwen OB(1), Brüggenwirth IMA(1), Haring MPD(1), Lantinga VA(1), de Meijer 
VE(1), Porte RJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)UMCG, afd. Chirurgie, sectie Hepatopancreatobiliaire Chirurgie en 
Levertransplantatie, Groningen.
(2)Contact: Robert J. Porte (r.j.porte@umcg.nl).

In the Netherlands, the average quality of donor organs continues to decrease as 
a result of the increasing life expectancy, as well as higher incidence of 
obesity, diabetes mellitus, and other comorbidities in the general population. 
Storing donor organs on ice, the current standard practice, appears to be 
inadequate for preserving these high-risk donor livers. Consequently, an 
increasing number of donor organs is discarded for transplantation. Over the 
past years, a novel dynamic preservation technique using a machine perfusion 
device has been developed. Preservation by machine perfusion enables 
optimisation and viability testing of high-risk donor livers prior to liver 
transplantation. A large proportion of initially declined donor livers appeared 
to be suitable for transplantation after evaluation during machine perfusion. 
Testing of donor livers has led to a significant increase in the number of liver 
transplantations performed in the Netherlands. This technique has the potential 
for use in other organs, such as kidney allografts.

PMID: 33720554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. J Proteome Res. 2021 Apr 2;20(4):2157-2165. doi:
10.1021/acs.jproteome.0c00983.  Epub 2021 Mar 15.

APE in the Wild: Automated Exploration of Proteomics Workflows in the bio.tools 
Registry.

Kasalica V(1), Schwämmle V(2), Palmblad M(3), Ison J(4), Lamprecht AL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Information and Computing Sciences, Utrecht University, Utrecht 
3584 CC, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Southern 
Denmark, Odense 5230, Denmark.
(3)Center for Proteomics and Metabolomics, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden 2300 RC, The Netherlands.
(4)Institut Français de Bioinformatique, CNRS, Crémieux F-91000, France.

The bio.tools registry is a main catalogue of computational tools in the life 
sciences. More than 17 000 tools have been registered by the international 
bioinformatics community. The bio.tools metadata schema includes semantic 
annotations of tool functions, that is, formal descriptions of tools' data 
types, formats, and operations with terms from the EDAM bioinformatics ontology. 
Such annotations enable the automated composition of tools into multistep 
pipelines or workflows. In this Technical Note, we revisit a previous case study 
on the automated composition of proteomics workflows. We use the same four 
workflow scenarios but instead of using a small set of tools with carefully 
handcrafted annotations, we explore workflows directly on bio.tools. We use the 
Automated Pipeline Explorer (APE), a reimplementation and extension of the 
workflow composition method previously used. Moving "into the wild" opens up an 
unprecedented wealth of tools and a huge number of alternative workflows. 
Automated composition tools can be used to explore this space of possibilities 
systematically. Inevitably, the mixed quality of semantic annotations in 
bio.tools leads to unintended or erroneous tool combinations. However, our 
results also show that additional control mechanisms (tool filters, 
configuration options, and workflow constraints) can effectively guide the 
exploration toward smaller sets of more meaningful workflows.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jproteome.0c00983
PMCID: PMC8041394
PMID: 33720735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


383. Drugs. 2021 Apr;81(6):635-645. doi: 10.1007/s40265-021-01486-1. Epub 2021
Mar  15.

Fabry Disease: The Current Treatment Landscape.

Lenders M(1), Brand E(2).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine D, Department of Nephrology, Hypertension and Rheumatology, 
and Interdisciplinary Fabry Center Münster (IFAZ), University Hospital Münster, 
Albert-Schweitzer-Campus 1, 48149, Münster, Germany.
(2)Internal Medicine D, Department of Nephrology, Hypertension and Rheumatology, 
and Interdisciplinary Fabry Center Münster (IFAZ), University Hospital Münster, 
Albert-Schweitzer-Campus 1, 48149, Münster, Germany. Eva.Brand@ukmuenster.de.

Fabry disease (FD) is a rare X-linked lysosomal storage disease based on a 
deficiency of α-galactosidase A (AGAL) caused by mutations in the 
α-galactosidase A gene (GLA). The lysosomal accumulation of glycosphingolipids, 
especially globotriaosylceramide (Gb3) and globotriaosylsphingosine (lyso-Gb3, 
deacylated form), leads to a multisystemic disease with progressive renal 
failure, cardiomyopathy with potentially malignant cardiac arrhythmias, and 
strokes, which considerably limits the life expectancy of affected patients. 
Diagnostic confirmation in male patients is based on the detection of AGAL 
deficiency in blood leukocytes, whereas in women, due to the potentially high 
residual enzymatic activity, molecular genetic detection of a causal mutation is 
required. Current treatment options for FD include recombinant enzyme 
replacement therapy (ERT) with intravenous agalsidase-alfa (0.2 mg/kg body 
weight) or agalsidase-beta (1 mg/kg body weight) every 2 weeks and oral 
chaperone therapy with migalastat (123 mg every other day), which selectively 
and reversibly binds to the active site of AGAL, thereby correcting the 
misfolding of the enzyme and allowing it to traffic to the lysosome. These 
therapies enable cellular Gb3 clearance and improve the burden of disease. 
However, in about 40% of all ERT-treated men, ERT can lead to 
infusion-associated reactions and the formation of neutralizing antidrug 
antibodies, which reduces the efficacy of therapy. In chaperone therapy, there 
are carriers of amenable mutations that show limited clinical success. This 
article provides a brief overview of the clinical picture in FD patients, 
diagnostic confirmation, and interdisciplinary clinical management of FD. The 
focus is on current and future therapeutic options.

DOI: 10.1007/s40265-021-01486-1
PMCID: PMC8102455
PMID: 33721270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. J Appl Microbiol. 2021 Oct;131(4):1830-1839. doi: 10.1111/jam.15068. Epub
2021  May 4.

Effect of frozen storage on the inhibition of microbial population, chemical and 
sensory characteristics of coconut neera.

Sukumaran L(1)(2), Radhakrishnan M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre of Excellence in Nonthermal Processing, Indian Institute of Food 
Processing Technology, Ministry of Food Processing Industries, Government of 
India, Thanjavur, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Affiliated to Bharathidasan University, Palkalaiperur, Tiruchirappalli, Tamil 
Nadu, India.

AIM: In this study, the effect of frozen storage on the inhibition of microbial 
population in coconut neera for shelf life extension was analysed.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The aliquots of fresh neera were frozen at -6 and -20°C. 
The microbial reduction and chemical qualities were analysed during storage 
days, and were compared with the control. The highest reduction in microbes was 
obtained at -20°C for lactic acid bacteria, yeast and total viable count. 
Moreover, the fluorescence cell staining and cell density analysis exhibited a 
decline at -20°C, however it showed higher at -6°C. At the end of 28 days, neera 
exhibited a pH of 5·37, total soluble solid of 14·0 °Brix and total acidity of 
0·82 mg l-1 at -20°C. Besides, color, viscosity, total protein and ethanol 
showed a less difference with control and better sensory attribute up to 21 days 
at -20°C.
CONCLUSIONS: Frozen storage at -20°C resulted in a better inhibition of lactic 
acid bacteria, which preserves neera from the metabolic conversion. The 
physicochemical qualities of neera were preserved for a longer period when 
stored at -20°C than at atmospheric storage.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: Frozen storage reduced microbial 
population and preserves the chemical properties with acceptable sensory 
attributes and increases the shelf life of coconut neera, making it fit for 
consumption.

© 2021 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/jam.15068
PMID: 33721389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Prog Transplant. 2021 Jun;31(2):117-125. doi: 10.1177/15269248211002793.
Epub  2021 Mar 15.

Life Expectancy after Liver Transplantation for Non-Cirrhotic Hepatocellular 
Carcinoma.

Shavelle RM(1), Kwak JH(1), Saur R(1), Brooks JC(1), Rosenthal P(2).

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(2)Pediatric Hepatology, 8785University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Hepatocelluar carcinoma typically occurs with underlying cirrhosis. 
However roughly 20% of cases arise in a non-cirrhotic liver. There is limited 
literature that addresses the long-term survival of the narrow subgroup who 
received transplantation. For such patients we sought to calculate life 
expectancies both at time of transplant and several years later, stratified by 
key risk factors, and to determine if survival has improved in recent years. 
Such information can be helpful in making treatment decisions.
METHODS: Data on 4,373 non-cirrhotic HCC patients who underwent liver 
transplantation in the MELD era (2002-2018) from the United States OPTN database 
were analyzed using the Cox proportional hazards regression model and life table 
methods.
RESULTS: Demographic and past medical history factors related to survival were 
patient age, donor age over 20, and the presence of ascites or severe hepatic 
encephalopathy. Survival did not vary by race or sex. HCC-specific factors 
significantly related to survival were the total number of tumors, extrahepatic 
spread, lymph node involvement, satellite lesions, micro- or macrovascular 
invasion, tumor differentiation (grade), and pre-transplant treatment. Survival 
improved over the study period, at 4% per calendar year during the first 5 years 
post transplant and 1% per year thereafter.
CONCLUSIONS: Life expectancy in non-cirrhotic HCC transplant patients is much 
reduced from normal, and varies according to age and tumor-related factors. 
Survival improved modestly over the study period.

DOI: 10.1177/15269248211002793
PMID: 33722096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. J Orthop Surg Res. 2021 Mar 15;16(1):191. doi: 10.1186/s13018-021-02334-4.

Finite element analysis of different locking plate fixation methods for the 
treatment of ulnar head fracture.

Zhang Y(#)(1), Shao Q(#)(1), Yang C(1), Ai C(1), Zhou D(2), Yu Y(3), Sun G(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Traumatic Surgery, Shanghai East Hospital, Tongji University 
School of Medicine, No 150, Ji Mo Road, Shanghai, 200120, China.
(2)Department of Radiology, Shanghai East Hospital, Tongji University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, 200120, China.
(3)Walkman biomaterial CO., LTD, Tianjin, 301609, China.
(4)Department of Traumatic Surgery, Shanghai East Hospital, Tongji University 
School of Medicine, No 150, Ji Mo Road, Shanghai, 200120, China. 
sunguixin@sina.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Ulnar head fractures are increasingly higher with the growing 
proportion of the elderly people. Failure to achieve a stable anatomic reduction 
of ulna head fracture may lead to a distal radioulnar joint (DRUJ) dysfunction 
and nonunion of the distal radius. Due to the lack of the postoperative 
reporting outcomes and the biomechanical studies, it has not been well 
established about the optimal management of the comminuted distal ulna head 
fracture. Hence, the purpose of this study is to use finite element analysis to 
explain the advantages and disadvantages of ulnar-side locking plate fixation 
compared with dorsal-side locking plate fixation and its screw arrangement in 
the treatment of ulnar head fractures.
METHODS: FE models of the ulnar head fracture and the models of ulnar-side 
locking plate and dorsal-side plate with two or three distal screws was 
constructed. In order to simulate forces acting on the ulnar and the 
osteosynthesis material during daily-life activity in subjects who underwent 
reconstructive surgery, we applied three loading conditions to each model, viz. 
20 N axial compression, 50 N axial compression, 1 N∙m torsion moment, 1 N∙m 
lateral bending moments, and 1 N∙m extension bending moments. Under these 
conditions, values of the von Mises stress (VMS) distribution of the implant, 
peak VMS, the relative displacement of the head and shaft fragments between the 
fracture ends and the displacement and its direction of the models were 
investigated.
RESULTS: The stress values of ulnar-side plates were lower than those of 
dorsal-side plates. And the ulnar-plate fixation system also has smaller maximum 
displacement and relative displacement. When adding a screw in the middle hole 
of the ulnar head, the values of model displacement and the peak stress in 
fixation system are lower, but it may evidently concentrate the stress on the 
middle screw.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, our study indicated that ulnar-side locking plates 
resulted in a lower stress distribution in the plate and better stability than 
dorsal-side locking plates for ulnar head fracture fixation. Adding an 
additional screw to the ulnar head could increase the stability of the fixation 
system and provide an anti-torsion function. This study requires clinical 
confirmation of its practicality in the treatment of ulnar head fractures. This 
study requires clinical confirmation as to its practicality in the treatment of 
ulnar head fracture.

DOI: 10.1186/s13018-021-02334-4
PMCID: PMC7958469
PMID: 33722253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


387. Epidemiol Infect. 2021 Mar 16;149:e75. doi: 10.1017/S0950268821000571.

Association between live childhood vaccines and COVID-19 outcomes: a 
national-level analysis.

Ogimi C(1)(2)(3), Qu P(4), Boeckh M(3)(5)(6), Bender Ignacio RA(3)(6), Zangeneh 
SZ(3)(7).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Infectious Diseases Division, Seattle Children's Hospital, Seattle, 
WA, USA.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(3)Vaccine and Infectious Disease Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research 
Center, Seattle, WA, USA.
(4)Seattle Children's Research Institute, Seattle, WA, USA.
(5)Clinical Research Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, 
WA, USA.
(6)Division of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, 
University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(7)RTI International, Seattle, WA, USA.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2020 Oct 20;:

We investigated whether countries with higher coverage of childhood live 
vaccines [BCG or measles-containing-vaccine (MCV)] have reduced risk of 
coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)-related mortality, while accounting for 
known systems differences between countries. In this ecological study of 140 
countries using publicly available national-level data, higher vaccine coverage, 
representing estimated proportion of people vaccinated during the last 14 years, 
was associated with lower COVID-19 deaths. The associations attenuated for both 
vaccine variables, and MCV coverage became no longer significant once adjusted 
for published estimates of the Healthcare access and quality index (HAQI), a 
validated summary score of healthcare quality indicators. The magnitude of 
association between BCG coverage and COVID-19 death rate varied according to 
HAQI, and MCV coverage had little effect on the association between BCG and 
COVID-19 deaths. While there are associations between live vaccine coverage and 
COVID-19 outcomes, the vaccine coverage variables themselves were strongly 
correlated with COVID-19 testing rate, HAQI and life expectancy. This suggests 
that the population-level associations may be further confounded by differences 
in structural health systems and policies. Cluster randomised studies of booster 
vaccines would be ideal to evaluate the efficacy of trained immunity in 
preventing COVID-19 infections and mortality in vaccinated populations and on 
community transmission.

DOI: 10.1017/S0950268821000571
PMCID: PMC8010281
PMID: 33722335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None reported.


388. CMAJ. 2021 Mar 15;193(11):E361-E370. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.200484.

Sex differences in mortality: results from a population-based study of 12 
longitudinal cohorts.

Wu YT(1), Niubo AS(2), Daskalopoulou C(2), Moreno-Agostino D(2), Stefler D(2), 
Bobak M(2), Oram S(2), Prince M(2), Prina M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Service and Population Research (Wu, Daskalopoulou, 
Moreno-Agostino, Oram, Prince, Prina), Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and 
Neuroscience, King's College London, London, UK; Population Health Sciences 
(Wu), Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK; Research, Innovation and 
Teaching Unit (Sanchez Niubo), Parc Sanitari Sant Joan de Déu, Sant Boi de 
Llobregat, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Salud Mental 
(Sanchez Niubo), Madrid, Spain; Department of Epidemiology and Public Health 
(Stefler, Bobak), University College London, London, UK yu-tzu.wu@kcl.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Health Service and Population Research (Wu, Daskalopoulou, 
Moreno-Agostino, Oram, Prince, Prina), Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and 
Neuroscience, King's College London, London, UK; Population Health Sciences 
(Wu), Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK; Research, Innovation and 
Teaching Unit (Sanchez Niubo), Parc Sanitari Sant Joan de Déu, Sant Boi de 
Llobregat, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Salud Mental 
(Sanchez Niubo), Madrid, Spain; Department of Epidemiology and Public Health 
(Stefler, Bobak), University College London, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Women generally have longer life expectancy than men but have higher 
levels of disability and morbidity. Few studies have identified factors that 
explain higher mortality in men. The aim of this study was to identify potential 
factors contributing to sex differences in mortality at older age and to 
investigate variation across countries.
METHODS: This study included participants age ≥ 50 yr from 28 countries in 12 
cohort studies of the Ageing Trajectories of Health: Longitudinal Opportunities 
and Synergies (ATHLOS) consortium. Using a 2-step individual participant data 
meta-analysis framework, we applied Cox proportional hazards modelling to 
investigate the association between sex and mortality across different 
countries. We included socioeconomic (education, wealth), lifestyle (smoking, 
alcohol consumption), social (marital status, living alone) and health factors 
(cardiovascular disease, diabetes, mental disorders) as covariates or 
interaction terms with sex to test whether these factors contributed to the 
mortality gap between men and women.
RESULTS: The study included 179 044 individuals. Men had 60% higher mortality 
risk than women after adjustment for age (pooled hazard ratio [HR] 1.6; 95% 
confidence interval 1.5-1.7), yet the effect sizes varied across countries (I 2 
= 71.5%, HR range 1.1-2.4). Only smoking and cardiovascular diseases 
substantially attenuated the effect size (by about 22%).
INTERPRETATION: Lifestyle and health factors may partially account for excess 
mortality in men compared with women, but residual variation remains unaccounted 
for. Variation in the effect sizes across countries may indicate contextual 
factors contributing to gender inequality in specific settings.

© 2021 Joule Inc. or its licensors.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.200484
PMCID: PMC8096404
PMID: 33722827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


389. CMAJ. 2021 Mar 15;193(11):E380. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.78144.

Life expectancy in patients with inflammatory bowel disease: time will tell if 
biologics are the answer.

Chanchlani N(1), Russell RK(2).

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology research fellow, Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital, Exeter, 
UK.
(2)Professor of paediatric gastroenterology, The Hospital for Sick Children, 
Edinburgh, UK.

Comment on
    CMAJ. 2020 Nov 9;192(45):E1394-E1402.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.78144
PMCID: PMC8096403
PMID: 33722831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Neil Chanchlani is an 
associate editor for CMAJ and was not involved in the editorial decision-making 
process for this article. Richard Russell declares an NHS Research Scotland 
Senior Research Fellowship and speaker fees, travel support or participation in 
medical board meetings with Nestlé, AbbVie, Dr. Falk Pharma, Takeda, Napp, Mead 
Johnson, Nutricia and 4D Pharma. No other competing interests were declared.


390. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2021 Mar 23;118(12):e1907351118. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1907351118.

Years of good life is a well-being indicator designed to serve research on 
sustainability.

Lutz W(1)(2)(3)(4), Striessnig E(1)(4), Dimitrova A(2)(4)(5), Ghislandi 
S(2)(4)(6), Lijadi A(2)(4), Reiter C(7)(2)(4), Spitzer S(7)(4), Yildiz 
D(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Demography, University of Vienna, 1030 Vienna, Austria; 
lutz@iiasa.ac.at erich.striessnig@univie.ac.at.
(2)International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, 2361 Laxenburg, 
Austria.
(3)Vienna Institute of Demography, Austrian Academy of Sciences, 1030 Vienna, 
Austria.
(4)Wittgenstein Centre for Demography and Global Human Capital, International 
Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Austrian Academy of Sciences and 
University of Vienna, 2361 Laxenburg, Austria.
(5)Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California San Diego, La 
Jolla, CA, 92093.
(6)Department of Social and Political Sciences, Bocconi University, 20136 Milan, 
Italy.
(7)Department of Demography, University of Vienna, 1030 Vienna, Austria.

Sustainable development (SD) as popularized by the Brundtland Commission and 
politically enshrined in the Sustainable Development Goals has been the explicit 
focus of sustainability science. While there is broad agreement that the trend 
of human well-being (W) over time should serve as a sustainability criterion, 
the literature so far has mostly addressed this in terms of its determinants 
rather than focusing on W itself. There is broad agreement that an indicator for 
W should have multiple constituents, clearly going beyond gross domestic 
product. Here, we propose a tailor-made indicator to serve precisely this 
purpose following a set of specified desiderata, including its applicability to 
flexibly defined subnational populations by gender, place of residence, 
ethnicity, and other relevant characteristics. The indicator, years of good life 
(YoGL), reflects the evident fact that in order to be able to enjoy any quality 
of life, one has to be alive and thus is primarily based on life expectancy. 
However, since mere survival is not considered good enough, life years are 
counted conditional on meeting minimum standards in two dimensions: the 
objective dimension of capable longevity (consisting of being out of absolute 
poverty and enjoying minimal levels of physical and cognitive health) and the 
subjective dimension of overall life satisfaction. We illustrate the calculation 
of this indicator for countries and subpopulations at different stages of 
development and with different degrees of data availability.

Copyright © 2021 the Author(s). Published by PNAS.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1907351118
PMCID: PMC8000580
PMID: 33723034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.


391. Ann Transplant. 2021 Mar 16;26:e928624. doi: 10.12659/AOT.928624.

Use of Imputation and Decision Modeling to Improve Diagnosis and Management of 
Patients at Risk for New-Onset Diabetes After Transplantation.

Munshi VN(1), Saghafian S(2), Cook CB(3), Aradhyula SV(2), Chakkera HA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(2)Harvard Kennedy School, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Endocrinology, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, AZ, USA.
(4)Department of Surgery/Nephrology, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, AZ, USA.

BACKGROUND New-onset diabetes after transplantation (NODAT) is a complication of 
solid organ transplantation. We sought to determine the extent to which NODAT 
goes undiagnosed over the course of 1 year following transplantation, analyze 
missed or later-diagnosed cases of NODAT due to poor hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) and 
fasting blood glucose (FBG) collection, and to estimate the impact that improved 
NODAT screening metrics may have on long-term outcomes. MATERIAL AND METHODS 
This was a retrospective study utilizing 3 datasets from a single center on 
kidney, liver, and heart transplantation patients. Retrospective analysis was 
supplemented with an imputation procedure to account for missing data and 
project outcomes under perfect information. In addition, the data were used to 
inform a simulation model used to estimate life expectancy and 
cost-effectiveness of a hypothetical intervention. RESULTS Estimates of NODAT 
incidence increased from 27% to 31% in kidney transplantation patients, from 31% 
to 40% in liver transplantation patients, and from 45% to 67% in heart 
transplantation patients, when HbA1c and FBG were assumed to be collected 
perfectly at all points. Perfect screening for kidney transplantation patients 
was cost-saving, while perfect screening for liver and heart transplantation 
patients was cost-effective at a willingness-to-pay threshold of $100 000 per 
life-year. CONCLUSIONS Improved collection of HbA1c and FBG is a cost-effective 
method for detecting many additional cases of NODAT within the first year alone. 
Additional research into both improved glucometric monitoring as well as 
effective strategies for mitigating NODAT risk will become increasingly 
important to improve health in this population.

DOI: 10.12659/AOT.928624
PMCID: PMC7980500
PMID: 33723204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Sci Rep. 2021 Mar 15;11(1):6061. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-85440-x.

Association between denture use, chewing ability, and all-cause mortality in 
middle-aged and older adults who exercised regularly in Korea.

Jang JH(1)(2), Kim JL(2), Kim JH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dental Hygiene, College of Health Science, Dankook University, 
Cheonan, 31116, Korea.
(2)Department of Public Health, General Graduate School of Dankook University, 
Cheonan, 31116, Korea.
(3)Department of Health Administration, College of Health Science, Dankook 
University, Cheonan, 31116, Korea. jaehyun@dankook.ac.kr.

Herein, using data from the Korean Longitudinal Study of Aging (2006-2018), we 
evaluated denture use and chewing ability to determine the status of oral health 
in middle-aged adults who exercised regularly; further, we investigated the 
relationship of oral health with all-cause mortality. From the basic survey 
conducted in 2006, we interviewed 10,254 participants who were followed up until 
death. The participants were grouped based on regular exercise into REG 
(n = 3921) and non-REG (n = 6290) groups. The mortality rate was higher in the 
non-REG group than in the REG group (35.8% versus 26.9%; p < 0.001). The 
mortality rate was higher in denture users (versus non-denture users), 
non-drinkers (versus alcohol drinkers), and those on medical aid (versus 
national health insurance). The mortality rate was higher in participants with 
poor masticatory ability, lower education level, and poor subjective health 
perception (p < 0.001). Denture use and masticatory discomfort were not 
significant risk factors for mortality in the non-REG group (p > 0.05). In 
conclusion, masticatory discomfort was a risk factor for increased mortality in 
middle-aged Korean adults who exercised regularly, at least once a week. Thus, 
assessment of masticatory ability could be a useful indicator of life expectancy 
in middle-aged adults.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-85440-x
PMCID: PMC7961023
PMID: 33723333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


393. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2022;62(21):5794-5823. doi: 
10.1080/10408398.2021.1893643. Epub 2021 Mar 16.

Functional foods and bioactive ingredients harnessed from the ocean: current 
status and future perspectives.

Lobine D(1), Rengasamy KRR(2), Mahomoodally MF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences; Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
University of Mauritius, Réduit, Mauritius.
(2)Indigenous Knowledge Systems Centre, Faculty of Natural and Agricultural 
Sciences, North-West University, Mmabatho, North West Province, South Africa.

With an increase in life expectancy and decrease of quality-of-life couple with 
the high prevalence of diseases, diet is expected to play a key function in 
sustaining human health. Nutritionists, food technologists and medical experts 
are working in synergy to cater for the increasing demand of food with 
associated therapeutic benefits, commonly known as functional food, that may 
improve well-being and reduce the risk of diseases. Interestingly, the marine 
ecosystem, due to its abundant and phenomenal biodiversity of marine organisms, 
constitutes a vital source of a panoply of healthy foods supply for the thriving 
functional food industry. Marine organisms such as seaweeds, sea cucumbers, 
sponges, and mollusks amongst others are sources of thousands of biologically 
active metabolites with antioxidant, anti-parasitic, antiviral, 
anti-inflammatory and anticancer properties. Given the growing number of 
research and interest to probe into the therapeutic roles of marine products, 
this review was designed to provide a comprehensive summary of the therapeutic 
properties of marine organisms (macroalgae, sea cucumbers and fish among others) 
which are consumed worldwide, in addition to their potentials and as sources of 
functional ingredients for developing novel food and fostering wellness. The gap 
between research development and actual commercialization, and future prospects 
of marine-based products also summarized to some extent.

DOI: 10.1080/10408398.2021.1893643
PMID: 33724095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2022;62(20):5462-5475. doi: 
10.1080/10408398.2021.1885341. Epub 2021 Mar 16.

The role of B vitamins in stroke prevention.

Bjørklund G(1), Peana M(2), Dadar M(3), Lozynska I(4)(5), Chirumbolo S(6)(7), 
Lysiuk R(5)(8), Lenchyk L(9)(10), Upyr T(10)(11), Severin B(12).

Author information:
(1)Council for Nutritional and Environmental Medicine (CONEM), Mo i Rana, 
Norway.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Pharmacy, University of Sassari, Italy.
(3)Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Razi Vaccine and Serum Research 
Institute, Agricultural Research, Karaj, Iran.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Danylo Halytsky Lviv National Medical University, 
Lviv, Ukraine.
(5)CONEM Ukraine Life Science Research Group, Danylo Halytsky Lviv National 
Medical University, Lviv, Ukraine.
(6)Department of Neurosciences, Biomedicine and Movement Sciences, University of 
Verona, Verona, Italy.
(7)CONEM Scientific Secretary, Verona, Italy.
(8)Department of Pharmacognosy and Botany, Danylo Halytsky Lviv National Medical 
University, Lviv, Ukraine.
(9)Department of Quality, Standardization and Certification of Medicines of 
IATPS, National University of Pharmacy, Kharkiv, Ukraine.
(10)CONEM Ukraine Pharmacognosy and Natural Product Chemistry Research Group 
National University of Pharmacy, Kharkiv, Ukraine.
(11)Department of Pharmacognosy, National University of Pharmacy, Kharkiv, 
Ukraine.
(12)Faculty of Medicine, Ovidius University of Constanta, Constanta, Romania.

Elevated plasma levels of homocysteine (Hcy) are a recognized risk factor for 
stroke. This relationship represents one aspect of the debated `Hcy hypothesis'. 
Elevated Hcy may be an independent and treatable cause of atherosclerosis and 
thrombotic vascular diseases. Further observations indicate that proper dietary 
supplementation with B-vitamins decreases total plasma Hcy concentrations and 
may be an effective intervention for stroke prevention. Metabolic vitamin B12 
deficiency is a nutritional determinant of total Hcy and stroke risk. Genetic 
factors may link B vitamins with stroke severity due to the impact on Hcy 
metabolism of polymorphism in the genes coding for methylenetetrahydrofolate 
reductase, methionine-synthase, methionine synthase reductase, and cystathionine 
β-synthase. Several meta-analyses of large randomized controlled trials exist. 
However, they are not completely in agreement about B vitamins' role, 
particularly folic acid levels, vitamin B12, and B6, in lowering the 
homocysteine concentrations in people at high stroke risk. A very complex 
relationship exists between Hcy and B vitamins, and several factors appear to 
modify the preventive effects of B vitamins in stroke. This review highlights 
the regulating factors of the active role of B vitamins active in stroke 
prevention. Also, inputs for further large, well-designed studies, for specific, 
particularly sensitive subgroups are given.

DOI: 10.1080/10408398.2021.1885341
PMID: 33724098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Int J Stroke. 2022 Mar;17(3):282-290. doi: 10.1177/17474930211006302. Epub
2021  Apr 7.

Cost-effectiveness of an enhanced Paramedic Acute Stroke Treatment Assessment 
(PASTA) during emergency stroke care: Economic results from a pragmatic cluster 
randomized trial.

Bhattarai N(1), Price CI(2), McMeekin P(3), Javanbakht M(1), Vale L(1), Ford 
GA(2)(4), Shaw L(2).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Group, Population Health Sciences Institute, 5994Newcastle 
University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(2)Stroke Research Group, Population Health Sciences Institute, 5994Newcastle 
University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(3)Faculty of Health & Life Sciences, Northumbria University, Newcastle upon 
Tyne, UK.
(4)Medical Sciences Division, University of Oxford, and Oxford University 
Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Oxford, UK.

BACKGROUND: The Paramedic Acute Stroke Treatment Assessment (PASTA) trial 
evaluated an enhanced emergency care pathway which aimed to facilitate 
thrombolysis in hospital. A pre-planned health economic evaluation was included. 
The main results showed no statistical evidence of a difference in either 
thrombolysis volume (primary outcome) or 90-day dependency. However, 
counter-intuitive findings were observed with the intervention group showing 
fewer thrombolysis treatments but less dependency.
AIMS: Cost-effectiveness of the PASTA intervention was examined relative to 
standard care.
METHODS: A within trial cost-utility analysis estimated mean costs and 
quality-adjusted life years over 90 days' time horizon. Costs were derived from 
resource utilization data for individual trial participants. Quality-adjusted 
life years were calculated by mapping modified Rankin scale scores to EQ-5D-3L 
utility tariffs. A post-hoc subgroup analysis examined cost-effectiveness when 
trial hospitals were divided into compliant and non-compliant with 
recommendations for a stroke specialist thrombolysis rota.
RESULTS: The trial enrolled 1214 patients: 500 PASTA and 714 standard care. 
There was no evidence of a quality-adjusted life year difference between groups 
[0·007 (95% CI: -0·003 to 0·018)] but costs were lower in the PASTA group 
[-£1473 (95% CI: -£2736 to -£219)]. There was over 97.5% chance that the PASTA 
pathway would be considered cost-effective. There was no evidence of a 
difference in costs at seven thrombolysis rota compliant hospitals but costs at 
eight non-complaint hospitals costs were lower in PASTA with more dominant 
cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: Analyses indicate that the PASTA pathway may be considered 
cost-effective, particularly if deployed in areas where stroke specialist 
availability is limited.Trial Registration: ISRCTN12418919 
www.isrctn.com/ISRCTN12418919.

DOI: 10.1177/17474930211006302
PMCID: PMC8864331
PMID: 33724103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
author(s) declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to 
the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: The employing 
institutions of all authors received funds from NIHR for this work to be 
undertaken. MJ received consultancy fees for economic modelling work. CP and LS 
received nonfinancial support from Cerebrotech Medical Systems Inc and grants 
from Innovate UK.


396. Expert Rev Neurother. 2021 Apr;21(4):463-473. doi: 
10.1080/14737175.2021.1901583. Epub 2021 Mar 21.

Updated perspectives on awake neurosurgery with cognitive and emotional 
assessment for patients with low-grade gliomas.

Duffau H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery Gui De Chauliac Hospital, Montpellier University 
Medical Center, Montpellier, France.
(2)National Institute for Health and Medical Research (INSERM), U1191 Laboratory 
Team "Brain Plasticity, Stem Cells and Low-Grade Gliomas", Institute of 
Functional Genomic, University of Montpellier, Montpellier, France.

Introduction: Thanks to early extensive surgical resection combined with medical 
oncological therapies, life expectancy dramatically increased in low-grade 
glioma (LGG), with an overall survival currently over 15 years. Therefore, 
patients should be able to maintain valuable family and socio-professional 
activities.Areas covered: For many decades, cognitive and emotional aspects were 
neglected by surgical and medical neurooncologists. The goal of surgery was to 
avoid hemiplegia and/or aphasia, with no considerations regarding behavior. 
