measures of swallowing were determined by videofluoroscopic evaluation, and 
voice measures of maximum phonation and speech intelligibility in reading and 
monologue were examined.
RESULTS: After LSVT, the median duration of opening of the upper esophageal 
sphincter (from the beginning of the posterior movement of the bolus to upper 
esophageal sphincter opening) on videofluoroscopy was significantly shortened 
from 0.42 to 0.38 s (Wilcoxon signed-rank test P=0.016). The oral transit 
duration was decreased in five patients, but the decrease was not significant. 
Voice changes after LSVT included increases in voice intensity and in sustained 
duration were not significant.
CONCLUSION: In this small study, it was found that LSVT may improve swallowing 
functions in patients with PSP.

©2021 The Japanese Association of Rehabilitation Medicine.

DOI: 10.2490/prm.20210012
PMCID: PMC7897538
PMID: 33644483

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: The authors have no 
conflicts of interests directly relevant to the content of this article.


162. Zhongguo Zhong Yao Za Zhi. 2021 Feb;46(4):786-791. doi: 
10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.20200917.602.

[Analysis of animal models of heart failure based on characteristics of clinical 
symptoms of traditional Chinese and Western medicine].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang J(1), Li XM(1), Miao MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Henan University of Chinese Medicine Zhengzhou 450046,China.

The incidence of heart failure has increased year by year, with a negative 
impact on quality of life and life expectancy of patients. Reproduction of 
animal models that meet the characteristics of clinical symptoms is a 
prerequisite for conducting experimental studies relating to heart failure. 
Based on the characteristics of clinical symptoms of heart failure in 
traditional Chinese medicine(TCM) and Western medicine, the existing common 
animal models of heart failure were explored, and the clinical anastomosis of 
the existing animal models was analyzed based on the clinical diagnostic 
criteria of heart failure in TCM and Western medicine. After analysis and 
comparison, it can be seen that the existing modeling methods are mostly 
single-factor animal models, with certain gaps between the characteristics of 
clinical multi-factors and interactions that jointly lead to heart failure, and 
the modeling methods were mostly guided by Western medicine, with a lack of TCM 
pathogenic factors in the model process, which is different from the clinical 
diagnostic criteria of Chinese and Western medicine for heart failure. In terms 
of syndrome differentiation, heart failure is classified into heart and lung Qi 
deficiency syndrome, Qi and Yin deficiency syndrome, heart and kidney Yang 
deficiency syndrome, Qi deficiency and blood stasis syndrome, Yang deficiency 
and water flooding syndrome, phlegm-drinking obstructive lung syndrome, Yin and 
yang exhausted syndrome. The existing animal models mostly confused them, with 
no effective and recognized method for modeling at present. There are major 
limitations in studies of Chinese medicine. Therefore, based on clinical 
characteristics of heart failure in Chinese and Western medicine, this article 
analyzed the existing animal models, defined their advantages and disadvantages 
and application prospects, and then suggested further improving the 
corresponding animal models of heart failure and standardizing the model 
evaluation, so as to improve the clinical coincidence between animal models and 
Chinese and Western medicine, make heart failure animal models better serve 
scientific studies, and promote relevant mechanism studies, pathological change 
studies and drug screening.

DOI: 10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.20200917.602
PMID: 33645082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Mol Pharm. 2021 Apr 5;18(4):1558-1572. doi:
10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.0c00968.  Epub 2021 Mar 1.

Development of a Prodrug of Camptothecin for Enhanced Treatment of Glioblastoma 
Multiforme.

Checa-Chavarria E(1), Rivero-Buceta E(2), Sanchez Martos MA(1), Martinez 
Navarrete G(1), Soto-Sánchez C(1), Botella P(2), Fernández E(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Bioengineering, Universidad Miguel Hernández, Elche, Spain and 
Centre for Network Biomedical Research (CIBER-BBN), Avenida de la Universidad 
s/n, 03202 Elche, Spain.
(2)Instituto de Tecnología Química, Universitat Politècnica de València-Consejo 
Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Avenida de los Naranjos s/n, 46022 
Valencia, Spain.

A novel therapeutic approach for glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) therapy has been 
carried out through in vitro and in vivo testing by using the prodrug 
camptothecin-20-O-(5-aminolevulinate) (CPT-ALA). The incorporation of ALA to CPT 
may promote uptake of the cytotoxic molecule by glioblastoma cells where the 
heme synthesis pathway is active, improving the therapeutic action and reducing 
the side effects over healthy tissue. The antitumor properties of CPT-ALA have 
been tested on different GBM cell lines (U87, U251, and C6) as well as in an 
orthotopic GBM model in rat, where potential toxicity in central nervous system 
cells was analyzed. In vitro results indicated no significant differences in the 
cytotoxic effect over the different GBM cell lines for CPT and CPT-ALA, albeit 
cell mortality induced by CPT over normal cell lines was significantly higher 
than CPT-ALA. Moreover, intracranial GBM in rat was significantly reduced (30% 
volume) with 2 weeks of CPT-ALA treatment with no significant side effects or 
alterations to the well-being of the animals tested. 5-ALA moiety enhances CPT 
diffusion into tumors due to solubility improvement and its metabolic-based 
targeting, increasing the CPT cytotoxic effect on malignant cells while reducing 
CPT diffusion to other proliferative healthy tissue. We demonstrate that CPT-ALA 
blocks proliferation of GBM cells, reducing the infiltrative capacity of GBM and 
promoting the success of surgical removal, which improves life expectancy by 
reducing tumor recurrence.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.0c00968
PMCID: PMC8482753
PMID: 33645231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


164. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2021 Mar;27(3):327-338. doi: 
10.18553/jmcp.2021.27.3.327.

Cost-effectiveness of ribociclib plus endocrine therapy versus placebo plus 
endocrine therapy in HR-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer.

Le V(1), Zhong L(2), Narsipur N(1), Hays E(1), Tran DK(1), Rosario K(1), Wilson 
L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, University of California, San Francisco.
(2)Texas A&M College of Pharmacy, Kingsville.

BACKGROUND: The 2015 American Society of Clinical Oncology guidelines recommend 
first-line treatment of hormone receptor (HR)-positive breast cancer with 
endocrine therapy plus or minus palbociclib, a selective cyclin-dependent kinase 
(CDK)4/6 inhibitor. In 2018, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved 
ribociclib, a new orally available selective CDK4/6 inhibitor. While gains in 
progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) from ribociclib are 
important for clinical and treatment outcomes, trade-offs in adverse events 
(AEs) and additional costs necessitate cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) to 
assist consideration by third-party payer systems, physicians, and patients. 
OBJECTIVES: To (a) develop a Markov model and (b) determine the 
cost-effectiveness of ribociclib plus endocrine therapy versus endocrine therapy 
alone as treatment for premenopausal and perimenopausal patients with 
HR-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative breast 
cancer. METHODS: A lifetime 3-state Markov model ("stable," "progressed," and 
"dead" health states) was developed using a U.S. payer perspective. Transition 
probabilities were calculated based on OS and PFS outcomes from the randomized 
controlled phase 3 trial MONALEESA-7. These Kaplan-Meier curves were extended to 
lifetime by estimating best-fit distributions using loglogistic distribution for 
ribociclib curves and Weibull distribution for placebo curves. Costs were 
obtained from national data sources using 2019 U.S. dollars (USD) and discounted 
by 3%. Utilities were obtained via published breast cancer literature and were 
included for each health state and for time spent with each AE. Results were 
expressed as an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) expressed as USD per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) saved. Treatments were assumed to be 
cost-effective based on a willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold of $150,000 per 
QALY gained. Base-case, 1-way sensitivity tornado diagrams and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses demonstrated changes in the ICER and were driven by the 
cost of ribociclib and the utility of remaining in the stable health state. 
RESULTS: Ribociclib plus endocrine therapy was cost-effective at an ICER of 
$124,513 per QALY when compared with endocrine therapy alone at a WTP threshold 
of $150,000. The ribociclib plus endocrine therapy arm had an effectiveness of 
5.28 QALYs and a total cost of $385,112, while placebo plus endocrine therapy 
provided only 2.46 QALYs at a lower total cost of $67.246. The model was 
sensitive to the cost of ribociclib and the utility of time spent in the stable 
health state. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis demonstrated that endocrine 
therapy alone was cost-effective until a WTP of $125,000 and was cost-effective 
72% of the time at the WTP threshold. CONCLUSIONS: Ribociclib plus endocrine 
therapy is more cost-effective than endocrine therapy alone. Professionals in 
managed care settings should consider the pharmacoeconomic benefits of 
ribociclib for the treatment of HR-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer as they 
make value-based formulary decisions. Further CEAs should be considered as 
direct treatment comparison trials between CDK4/6 inhibitors are completed in 
the future. DISCLOSURES: No outside funding supported this study. The authors 
have nothing to disclose.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2021.27.3.327
PMCID: PMC10390904
PMID: 33645243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No outside funding supported this study. The 
authors have nothing to disclose.


165. Scand J Public Health. 2021 Aug;49(6):666-674. doi:
10.1177/1403494821993669.  Epub 2021 Mar 1.

Indicators and determinants of the years of working life lost: a narrative 
review.

Shiri R(1), Hiilamo A(1), Lallukka T(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, Helsinki, Finland.
(2)Department of Public Health, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.

OBJECTIVE: This narrative review summarizes the available indicators for working 
life expectancy and years of working life lost (YWLL) and their determinants.
METHODS: We searched PubMed and Embase databases from their inception until 
August 2020 and screened all studies proposing an indicator for working life 
expectancy or YWLL. We also reviewed studies focusing on sociodemographic, 
lifestyle and work-related determinants of working life expectancy and YWLL. The 
results were synthesized narratively.
RESULTS: We identified 13 different indicators for the length of working life or 
YWLL. The most frequently used indicators were 'working life expectancy', 
'healthy working life expectancy', and YWLL. Working life expectancy and healthy 
working life expectancy are longer for men than women. Working life expectancy 
at the age of 50 has been increasing since the mid-90s, and the increase has 
been larger for women, reducing the sex difference. Working life is shorter for 
people with a low level of education, in lower occupational classes, for people 
exposed to high physical work demands, those living in the most 
socioeconomically deprived areas, people with overweight or obesity, smokers, 
people who are inactive during leisure time and in people with a chronic health 
problem.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite increasing interest in understanding the determinants of 
YWLL, only a few studies have simultaneously considered multiple exit routes 
from the labour market. We propose a new measure for total YWLL considering all 
relevant exit routes from employment. This comprehensive measure can be used to 
assess the effect of given policy changes on prolonging working life.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494821993669
PMCID: PMC8512267
PMID: 33645306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The author(s) declared no 
potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or 
publication of this article.


166. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2021 Jun;21(3):497-504. doi: 
10.1080/14737167.2021.1896968. Epub 2021 Apr 8.

The challenge of value-based pricing in combination therapy: the case of 
trastuzumab and pertuzumab in HER2+ metastatic breast cancer.

Jiao B(1), Garrison LP , Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)The Comparative Health Outcomes, Policy, and Economics (CHOICE) Institute, 
School of Pharmacy, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Under current reimbursement (CR) practice even though an add-on drug 
in a combination therapy may produce marginal value in terms of health gain, the 
original therapy may also share in the reward for this additional value. We 
examine an alternative 'marginal value-based reimbursement' (MVBR) model in 
which an original therapy would not share in the marginal value.
METHODS: In a case study for treatment of HER2+ metastatic breast cancer, we 
computed the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) of adding pertuzumab 
to trastuzumab and docetaxel (PHT) vs. trastuzumab and docetaxel (HT) under the 
CR and the MVBR models, respectively. We further estimated the revised cost of 
pertuzumab under three alternative willingness-to-pay thresholds based on (a) 
using the current ICER of PHT vs. HT, (b) the historical ICER of HT vs. 
docetaxel, and (c) applying the oft-used $150,000/quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) gained.
RESULTS: If reimbursement were changed from CR to MVBR, at the current price of 
pertuzumab, the ICER would decline from $409,213 to $323,236/QALY gained. If the 
price were adjusted under the three thresholds, the payment for pertuzumab would 
be increased by between 32% and 93%.
CONCLUSION: The proposed MVBR model would provide a stronger economic incentive 
to develop add-on drugs.

DOI: 10.1080/14737167.2021.1896968
PMID: 33645393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Comp Biochem Physiol C Toxicol Pharmacol. 2021 Aug;246:109023. doi: 
10.1016/j.cbpc.2021.109023. Epub 2021 Feb 26.

Emodin resists to Cyprinid herpesvirus 3 replication via the pathways of 
Nrf2/Keap1-ARE and NF-κB in the ornamental koi carp (Cyprinus carpio 
haematopterus).

Wang Z(1), Zheng N(2), Liang J(2), Wang Q(2), Zu X(3), Wang H(2), Yuan H(4), 
Zhang R(4), Guo S(2), Liu Y(3), Zhou J(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun, Jilin 
130118, China.
(2)College of Animal Sciences, Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun, Jilin 
130118, China.
(3)Jilin Academy of Fishery Sciences, Changchun, Jilin 130033, China.
(4)Jilin Province Fishery Technology Extension Station, Jilin 130012, China.
(5)College of Animal Sciences, Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun, Jilin 
130118, China. Electronic address: zhjxnd@126.com.

Cyprinid herpesvirus 3 (CyHV-3) causes high mortality in carp. Emodin has been 
shown of the effects of antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and antiviral. In present 
study, we investigated the preventive effects and mechanism of emodin on CyHV-3 
infection. The ornamental koi carp (Cyprinus carpio haematopterus) were 
intraperitoneally injected with emodin (10 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, or 40 mg/kg). 72 h 
later, an intraperitoneal injection of CyHV-3 was administered, and collected 
the samples one week later to detect the antioxidant parameters, antioxidant 
genes, inflammatory genes and to perform histopathology assays. The results 
showed that emodin significantly suppressed CyHV-3 replication (P < 0.05), 
improved the koi survival rate and slowed the damage caused by CyHV-3. Emodin 
treatment increased the antioxidant activity and decreased the lipid 
peroxidation level of the koi. Compared to the CyHV-3 group, emodin treatment 
resulted in the same antioxidant parameters after CyHV-3 infection. Emodin 
treatment activated the Nuclear factorery throid 2-related factor 2/Kelch-like 
ECH-associated protein 1-antioxidatant response element (Nrf2/Keap1-ARE) pathway 
and upregulated the expression of heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1), superoxide dismutase 
(SOD), and catalase (CAT) in the hepatopancreas after CyHV-3 infection. Emodin 
activated the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) pathway and decreased the 
expression of interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-8 (IL-8), and tumour necrosis 
factor-α (TNF-α) in the koi induced by CyHV-3. In conclusion, emodin treatment 
can suppress CyHV-3 replication and reduce the mortality of koi caused by 
CyHV-3. Emodin improves antioxidant function, relieves oxidative stress and 
inflammation cytokines via Nrf2/Keap1-ARE and NF-κB pathways, and protects 
against the adverse effects induced by CyHV-3.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbpc.2021.109023
PMID: 33647480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Health Place. 2021 Mar;68:102540. doi: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2021.102540.
Epub  2021 Feb 19.

Racial/ethnic minority and neighborhood disadvantage leads to disproportionate 
mortality burden and years of potential life lost due to COVID-19 in Chicago, 
Illinois.

Pierce JB(1), Harrington K(2), McCabe ME(2), Petito LC(2), Kershaw KN(2), Pool 
LR(2), Allen NB(2), Khan SS(3).

Author information:
(1)Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA.
(2)Department of Preventive Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL, USA.
(3)Department of Preventive Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL, USA; Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, 
Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA. 
Electronic address: s-khan-1@northwestern.edu.

Epidemiological studies have highlighted the disparate impact of coronavirus 
disease 2019 (COVID-19) on racial and ethnic minority and socioeconomically 
disadvantaged populations, but data at the neighborhood-level is sparse. The 
objective of this study was to investigate the disparate impact of COVID-19 on 
disadvantaged neighborhoods and racial/ethnic minorities in Chicago, Illinois. 
Using data from the Cook County Medical Examiner, we conducted a 
neighborhood-level analysis of COVID-19 decedents in Chicago and quantified 
age-standardized years of potential life lost (YPLL) due to COVID-19 among 
demographic subgroups and neighborhoods with geospatial clustering of high and 
low rates of COVID-19 mortality. We show that age-standardized YPLL was markedly 
higher among the non-Hispanic (NH) Black (559 years per 100,000 population) and 
the Hispanic (811) compared with NH white decedents (312). We demonstrate that 
geomapping using residential address data at the individual-level identifies 
hot-spots of COVID-19 mortality in neighborhoods on the Northeast, West, and 
South areas of Chicago that reflect a legacy of residential segregation and 
persistence of inequality in education, income, and access to healthcare. Our 
results may contribute to ongoing public health and community-engaged efforts to 
prevent the spread of infection and mitigate the disproportionate loss of life 
among these communities due to COVID-19 as well as highlight the urgent need to 
broadly target neighborhood disadvantage as a cause of pervasive racial 
inequalities in life and health.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2021.102540
PMCID: PMC7894217
PMID: 33647635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Pathol Res Pract. 2021 Apr;220:153366. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2021.153366. Epub
2021  Feb 8.

Role of the Wnt pathway in the formation, development, and degeneration of 
intervertebral discs.

Wu ZL(1), Xie QQ(1), Liu TC(1), Yang X(1), Zhang GZ(1), Zhang HH(2).

Author information:
(1)The Second Clinical Medical College, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, Gansu 
730000, China; Department of Orthopaedics, Second Hospital of Lanzhou 
University, Lanzhou, Gansu 730000, China; Key Laboratory of Orthopaedics Disease 
of Gansu Province, Lanzhou, Gansu 730000, China.
(2)The Second Clinical Medical College, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, Gansu 
730000, China; Department of Orthopaedics, Second Hospital of Lanzhou 
University, Lanzhou, Gansu 730000, China; Key Laboratory of Orthopaedics Disease 
of Gansu Province, Lanzhou, Gansu 730000, China. Electronic address: 
zhanghaihong1949@163.com.

Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is an age-related degenerative disease 
that is the main cause of low back pain. It seriously affects the quality of 
life of patients and places a heavy economic burden on families and society. The 
Wnt pathway plays an important role in the growth, development, and degeneration 
of intervertebral discs (IVDs). In the embryonic stage, the Wnt pathway 
participates in the growth and development of IVD by promoting the 
transformation of progenitor cells into notochord cells and the extension of the 
notochord. However, the activation of the Wnt pathway after birth promotes IVD 
cell senescence, apoptosis, and degradation of the extracellular matrix and 
induces the production of inflammatory factors, thereby accelerating the IVDD 
process. This article reviews the relationship between the Wnt pathway and IVD, 
emphasizing its influence on IVD growth, development, and degeneration. 
Targeting this pathway may become an effective strategy for the treatment of 
IVDD.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2021.153366
PMID: 33647863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2021 Mar;146(5):317-322. doi: 10.1055/a-1235-0533.
Epub  2021 Mar 1.

[Kidney as pacemaker for cardiovascular aging].

[Article in German]

Wanner C, Galle J, Lopau K.

Kidney patients age faster and vascular risk factors intensify the process. 
Lifetime is reduced up to 16 years in patients with diabetes mellitus type 2 and 
kidney disease. SGLT2 inhibitors play a significant role in maintaining organ 
function. By inhibiting the SGLT2 transporter in the proximal tubule of the 
kidneys, energy and water are continuously excreted and metabolic processes that 
are counter-regulated are set in motion. This hypometabolic adaptation supports 
organ functions and induces longevity. Kidney protection extends life expectancy 
of patients with diabetes mellitus type 2.Also patients with heart failure 
benefit and a 3-stage therapy is newly being discussed. The beta blocker is 
combined with an SGLT2 inhibitor in the first stage. In the second stage, the 
angiotensin receptor/neprilysin inhibitor and then a mineralocorticoid receptor 
antagonist (MRA) is used. These therapies have a complementary effect.

Thieme. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1055/a-1235-0533
PMID: 33648000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Christoph Wanner erhielt Honorare als Mitglied 
in Steuerungskomitees von Studien der Firmen Boehringer-Ingelheim, GILEAD und 
GSK und für Beratung und Vorträge von AstraZeneca, Bayer und MSD. Jan Galle 
erhielt Honorare von Boehringer-Ingelheim und Bayer. Kai Lopau gibt keinen 
Interessenkonflikt an.


171. Food Res Int. 2021 Feb;140:110040. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2020.110040. Epub
2020  Dec 24.

Shelf life extension of strawberry juice by equivalent ultrasound, high 
pressure, and pulsed electric fields processes.

Yildiz S(1), Pokhrel PR(2), Unluturk S(3), Barbosa-Cánovas GV(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Engineering, Sakarya University, Serdivan, 54050 Sakarya, 
Turkey. Electronic address: semanury@sakarya.edu.tr.
(2)Center for Nonthermal Processing of Food, Biological Systems Engineering 
Department, Washington State University, Pullman, WA 99164-6120, USA. Electronic 
address: prashant.pokhrel@outlook.com.
(3)Department of Food Engineering, Izmir Institute of Technology, Urla, 35430 
İzmir, Turkey. Electronic address: sevcanunluturk@iyte.edu.tr.
(4)Center for Nonthermal Processing of Food, Biological Systems Engineering 
Department, Washington State University, Pullman, WA 99164-6120, USA. Electronic 
address: barbosa@wsu.edu.

Nonthermal processing technologies have focused on the production of safe, 
fresh-like and high quality food products very much in line with current 
consumer demands. It is a high priority to maintain the quality attributes of 
the food during its shelf life. In this study; microbial stability, 
physicochemical properties and phytochemical characteristics of strawberry juice 
(SJ) pasteurized by ultrasonication (US) (55 °C, 0.29 W/mL acoustic energy 
density, 120 μm amplitude, 3 min), high pressure processing (HPP) (300 MPa, 
1 min), and pulsed electric fields (PEF) (35 kV/cm, 27 μs) were evaluated during 
42 days of storage at 4 °C in comparison with conventional thermal 
pasteurization as a reference treatment (72 °C, 15 s). The nonthermal processes 
were equivalent in terms of E. coli inactivation since the selected processing 
conditions previously led to almost identical inactivation level (at least 
5-log) of inoculated E. coli. Thus, the current study demonstrates how these 
equivalent US, HPP, and PEF treatments differ from each other in terms of their 
effect on SJ natural microbiota and quality characteristics during refrigerated 
storage. Results showed that US, HPP, and heat treatment ensured the microbial 
stability of SJ for at least 42 days while PEF extended the shelf life of SJ by 
at least 28 days based on the natural microbiota. No significant difference was 
found for the total soluble solids of the processed samples (p > 0.05) whereas 
acidity and pH of the samples varied during the storage period (p < 0.05). 
Immediately after processing, the total phenolic contents and antioxidant 
activities of SJ were better retained by HPP and PEF compared to thermal 
pasteurization. Furthermore, HPP and PEF significantly increased total 
anthocyanin content of SJ by 15 and 17% with respect to untreated SJ (p < 0.05). 
Phytochemical characteristics of processed SJ started to decrease after 7 days 
of storage irrespective of treatment type. HPP treated juices showed 
significantly higher levels of total anthocyanin and antioxidant activity at the 
final day of storage. Principal component and cluster analysis showed that the 
processed SJ samples had higher similarity to the untreated fresh SJ during 
storage up to 14 days, while the samples beyond this storage period clustered 
together and discriminated from the rest indicating a decreased similarity to 
the fresh juice. This study rendered simultaneous evaluation of several quality 
characteristics during storage of pasteurized strawberry juice based on the 
equivalent processing approach and multivariate data analysis. Under the 
selected processing conditions, HPP was the best option to extend the shelf life 
of SJ and enhance its phytochemical characteristics.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2020.110040
PMID: 33648266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. NASN Sch Nurse. 2021 Mar;36(2):104-109. doi: 10.1177/1942602X20963720. Epub
2020  Oct 14.

ECHO Telementoring Applied to Managing Students With Seizures: The Benefits for 
School Nurses.

McPhillips AM(1), Schultz RJ(2), Nasuta M(3), Shafer PO(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL.
(2)College of Nursing, Texas Woman's University, Houston, TX.
(3)Harford County Public Schools, Bel Air, MD.
(4)Consultant, Self-Employed, Boston, MA.

Project ECHO (Extension for Community Healthcare Outcomes) is an evidence-based 
telementoring approach to connect often siloed school nurses with a network of 
expert clinical and academic faculty, as well as school nurse colleagues 
throughout the country by engaging in case-based learning. Managing Students 
with Seizures ECHO: The Importance of School Nurses (MSwS ECHO) provided two 
cohorts of school nurses with an interactive, bidirectional educational program 
focused on various aspects of seizures and epilepsy relevant to school nurse 
practice. MSwS ECHO enhanced school nurses' confidence in caring and advocating 
for students with seizures and epilepsy, expanded school nurses' access to 
resources and professional networks, and provided the opportunity to collaborate 
with experts and colleagues to problem solve challenging real-life cases. The 
ECHO Model is a unique and effective teaching modality that can be applied to a 
variety of school health topics and chronic conditions. School nurses are 
encouraged to participate in forthcoming ECHO-based learning opportunities.

DOI: 10.1177/1942602X20963720
PMID: 33648392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Health Technol Assess. 2021 Feb;25(14):1-90. doi: 10.3310/hta25140.

Reduced exposure to vasopressors through permissive hypotension to reduce 
mortality in critically ill people aged 65 and over: the 65 RCT.

Mouncey PR(1), Richards-Belle A(1), Thomas K(1), Harrison DA(1), Sadique MZ(2), 
Grieve RD(2), Camsooksai J(3), Darnell R(1), Gordon AC(4)(5), Henry D(6), Hudson 
N(1), Mason AJ(4), Saull M(1), Whitman C(6), Young JD(7), Lamontagne F(8)(9), 
Rowan KM(1); 65 trial investigators.

Collaborators: Mouncey PR, Richards-Belle A, Thomas K, Harrison DA, Sadique MZ, 
Grieve RD, Camsooksai J, Darnell R, Gordon AC, Henry D, Hudson N, Mason AJ, 
Saull M, Whitman C, Young JD, Lamontagne F, Rowan KM, Polgarova P, Featherstone 
P, Teixeira S, Jones-Criddle C, Morton B, Turner-Bone I, Wilding L, Quigley G, 
Hemmings N, Donnelly A, Campbell A, O'Kane S, McKay E, Johnston P, O'Neill O, 
Totten E, Weeks N, Jeanrenaud P, Jones C, Jacob R, Jacob RM, Alpuerto M, Ashton 
A, Griffin D, Mupudzi M, Cuppitt J, Stoddard E, Brown G, McCooey J, Grimmer L, 
Bewley J, Sweet K, Searles C, Keskeys R, Radhakrishnan J, McNeela F, Smolen S, 
Curran L, Antcliffe D, Rojo R, Zantua K, Robertson H, Cheater L, Faulkner M, 
Parry L, Wakefield P, Belagodu Z, Vosper D, Stuart C, Ravindran B, Cowton A, 
Limb J, O'Brien J, Squires R, Waddy S, Elloway E, McMillan H, Williams S, Ball 
A, Williams P, Hiscox S, Horton S, Chappell U, Otahal I, Havalda P, Coetzee S, 
Matthews K, Foo A, King I, Manns K, Arias SS, Brett S, Cabreros L, Rosal R, Bell 
S, Turner K, Rivers V, Brixey S, Garcia L, Wright J, Hugill K, Mortimer S, Cree 
N, Bartley F, Hopkins P, Jeffreys S, Noble H, Finney C, Houslip L, Flint N, 
Hales D, Andreou P, McLaren I, Cruz C, Jamadarkhana S, Brice N, Goodyer K, Clark 
R, Bannard-Smith J, Connaughton E, Williams A, Cameron A, Sarkar R, Ogbeide V, 
Everett M, Battle C, Oliveros M, Owen T, Storton S, Doble P, Innes R, Hutter J, 
Harris S, Randell G, Hutchinson S, Fottrell-Gould D, Hudig L, Shanley T, 
Rousseau G, King MC, Stafford N, Grewcock J, Wilkinson J, Hall K, Campey L, Pons 
J, Mills G, Bird S, Cooper J, Pope A, Davies M, Carle C, Butterworth-Cowin N, 
Davies L, Rose A, Buckley S, Brooks L, Smith S, Camsooksai J, Reschreiter H, 
Patch S, Jenkins S, Rowe O, Williams T, Clarey E, Wilson J, Ritzema J, Linnett 
V, Sanderson A, Rose S, Pogson D, Daly Z, Collins A, Collins A, Roshdy A, Zaki 
A, Treus E, Marasigan Y, Ryan L, Harvey D, Meredith M, Hughes L, Jacques N, 
Walden A, Bhuie P, Dowling A, Bean S, Paddle J, Burt K, Aherne C, Roberts J, 
Crosby R, Boulanger C, Gibson C, Kelly S, Lynch C, Gibson B, Roche L, Turner K, 
Thomas K, Hodkinson G, Szakmany T, Gunter U, Hendry S, Welters I, Williams K, 
Waugh V, Angus I, Tully R, Hallett K, Dermody S, Verlander M, Laha S, Williams 
A, Doyle D, Cartlidge D, Chikungwa M, Gellamucho M, Salt R, Piercy P, Clement I, 
Dunn L, Bradshaw C, Harrison A, Kaur D, Reay M, Anumakonda V, Collins R, Watts 
A, Matthews J, Larkin A, Ferris P, Cawley K, Dearden J, Faulkner B, Thomas M, 
Hayes K, Worner R, Banach D, Gordon A, Adams J, Templeton M, Bociek A, Ostermann 
M, Sparkes S, Wan R, Kelly A, Holman J, Clark T, Cornwell A, Cassar I, Golden D, 
Jones J, Davey M, Billyard T, Ward G, Wild L, Bremmer P, Bassford C, 
Reece-Anthony R, Khaliq W, Clarke J, Gurung B, Clark M, Brohi F, Oldfield T, 
Mason S, Attwood B, Stagg C, Parsons P, Boswell C, Richardson NA, Hazelton T, 
Schumacher N, Dalmon N, Lord J, Helm D, Ramiro C, Margalef J, Silva L, 
Kubisz-Pudelko A, Lewis A, Panakal J, Wilcox D, Redman J, Carter J, Howard K.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Trials Unit, Intensive Care National Audit & Research Centre, 
London, UK.
(2)Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(3)Critical Care, Research and Innovation, Poole Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, 
Poole, UK.
(4)Division of Anaesthetics, Pain Medicine and Intensive Care, Imperial College 
London, London, UK.
(5)Intensive Care Unit, Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, St Mary's 
Hospital, London, UK.
(6)Patient representative, UK.
(7)Kadoorie Centre for Critical Care Research and Education, University of 
Oxford, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK.
(8)Department of Medicine, Université de Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, QC, Canada.
(9)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier, Université de Sherbrooke, 
Sherbrooke, QC, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Vasopressors are administered to critical care patients to avoid 
hypotension, which is associated with myocardial injury, kidney injury and 
death. However, they work by causing vasoconstriction, which may reduce blood 
flow and cause other adverse effects. A mean arterial pressure target typically 
guides administration. An individual patient data meta-analysis (Lamontagne F, 
Day AG, Meade MO, Cook DJ, Guyatt GH, Hylands M, et al. Pooled analysis of 
higher versus lower blood pressure targets for vasopressor therapy septic and 
vasodilatory shock. Intensive Care Med 2018;44:12-21) suggested that greater 
exposure, through higher mean arterial pressure targets, may increase risk of 
death in older patients.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
reduced vasopressor exposure through permissive hypotension (i.e. a lower mean 
arterial pressure target of 60-65 mmHg) in older critically ill patients.
DESIGN: A pragmatic, randomised clinical trial with integrated economic 
evaluation.
SETTING: Sixty-five NHS adult general critical care units.
PARTICIPANTS: Critically ill patients aged ≥ 65 years receiving vasopressors for 
vasodilatory hypotension.
INTERVENTIONS: Intervention - permissive hypotension (i.e. a mean arterial 
pressure target of 60-65 mmHg). Control (usual care) - a mean arterial pressure 
target at the treating clinician's discretion.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary clinical outcome was 90-day all-cause 
mortality. The primary cost-effectiveness outcome was 90-day incremental net 
monetary benefit. Secondary outcomes included receipt and duration of advanced 
respiratory and renal support, mortality at critical care and acute hospital 
discharge, and questionnaire assessment of cognitive decline and health-related 
quality of life at 90 days and 1 year.
RESULTS: Of 2600 patients randomised, 2463 (permissive hypotension, n = 1221; 
usual care, n = 1242) were analysed for the primary clinical outcome. Permissive 
hypotension resulted in lower exposure to vasopressors than usual care [mean 
duration 46.0 vs. 55.9 hours, difference -9.9 hours (95% confidence interval 
-14.3 to -5.5 hours); total noradrenaline-equivalent dose 31.5 mg vs. 44.3 mg, 
difference -12.8 mg (95% CI -18.0 mg to -17.6 mg)]. By 90 days, 500 (41.0%) 
patients in the permissive hypotension group and 544 (43.8%) patients in the 
usual-care group had died (absolute risk difference -2.85%, 95% confidence 
interval -6.75% to 1.05%; p = 0.154). Adjustment for prespecified baseline 
variables resulted in an odds ratio for 90-day mortality of 0.82 (95% confidence 
interval 0.68 to 0.98) favouring permissive hypotension. There were no 
significant differences in prespecified secondary outcomes or subgroups; 
however, patients with chronic hypertension showed a mortality difference 
favourable to permissive hypotension. At 90 days, permissive hypotension showed 
similar costs to usual care. However, with higher incremental life-years and 
quality-adjusted life-years in the permissive hypotension group, the incremental 
net monetary benefit was positive, but with high statistical uncertainty (£378, 
95% confidence interval -£1347 to £2103).
LIMITATIONS: The intervention was unblinded, with risk of bias minimised through 
central allocation concealment and a primary outcome not subject to observer 
bias. The control group event rate was higher than anticipated.
CONCLUSIONS: In critically ill patients aged ≥ 65 years receiving vasopressors 
for vasodilatory hypotension, permissive hypotension did not significantly 
reduce 90-day mortality compared with usual care. The absolute treatment effect 
on 90-day mortality, based on 95% confidence intervals, was between a 
6.8-percentage reduction and a 1.1-percentage increase in mortality.
FUTURE WORK: Future work should (1) update the individual patient data 
meta-analysis, (2) explore approaches for evaluating heterogeneity of treatment 
effect and (3) explore 65 trial conduct, including use of deferred consent, to 
inform future trials.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN10580502.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research 
(NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in 
Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 25, No. 14. See the NIHR Journals Library 
website for further project information.

Plain Language Summary: Low blood pressure is common in patients in intensive 
care. It is associated with a high risk of death. It can be treated with drugs 
called vasopressors. These drugs raise blood pressure, but also come with risks 
and side effects. Usually, a blood pressure target is used to guide how much of 
the drugs to give to patients. Two previous clinical trials suggested that using 
a lower blood pressure target (and therefore giving less of the drugs) might 
reduce the number of deaths among older patients. However, although these 
results were promising, more research was needed to find out if they were 
correct. The 65 trial was carried out to test if using a lower blood pressure 
target really did improve outcomes for older patients. The trial also looked at 
whether or not it would provide value for money for the NHS. A total of 2600 
patients aged ≥ 65 years who had low blood pressure in intensive care joined the 
trial. Half were randomly assigned to the new lower blood pressure target (less 
drugs). The other half were assigned to usual care (control group). As we had 
hoped, patients in the low blood pressure target group received less vasopressor 
drugs than the usual-care group. After 90 days, 41% of patients in the new low 
blood pressure target group had died, compared with 44% in the usual-care group. 
Although fewer patients died in the low blood pressure target group, the 
difference was small and may have occurred by chance. On average, the new target 
saved a small amount of money for the NHS. Although we could not prove that use 
of a lower blood pressure target saves lives for older patients in intensive 
care, our trial suggests that it might. Receiving less vasopressor drugs 
appeared safe for patients.

DOI: 10.3310/hta25140
PMCID: PMC7957458
PMID: 33648623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2021 Jun;47(6):1398-1405. doi: 10.1016/j.ejso.2021.01.014.
 Epub 2021 Jan 29.

To what extent has the last two decades seen significant progress in the 
management of older patients with head and neck cancer?

van der Kamp MF(1), van Dijk BAC(2), Plaat BEC(3), van der Laan BFAM(3), Halmos 
GB(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Groningen, University Medical Centre Groningen, Department of 
Otorhinolaryngology, Head & Neck Surgery, Groningen, the Netherlands. Electronic 
address: m.f.van.der.kamp@umcg.nl.
(2)Department of Research and Development, Netherlands Comprehensive Cancer 
Organization (IKNL), Utrecht, the Netherlands; University of Groningen, 
University Medical Centre Groningen, Department of Epidemiology, Groningen, the 
Netherlands.
(3)University of Groningen, University Medical Centre Groningen, Department of 
Otorhinolaryngology, Head & Neck Surgery, Groningen, the Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: Life expectancy is rising and consequently also the number of 
older patients with head and neck cancer. Different treatment regimens are often 
applied for older patients. The aim of this study is to investigate how 
treatment patterns and survival rates have changed over the past 20 years in 
older patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC).
MATERIALS: Patient and tumour characteristics, treatment and 5-year survival 
data from the Netherlands Cancer Registry of patients aged ≥60 years diagnosed 
with HNSCC in 1990-1995 and 2010-2015 were compared using chi-square test and 
relative survival analysis.
RESULTS: Data of 14,114 patients were analyzed. Oral cavity cancer treatment did 
not change over time, while survival improved from 54% to 58% (p = 0.03). 
Oropharyngeal and hypopharyngeal cancer treatment shifted towards non-surgical, 
with survival improving from 31% to 51% (p < 0.01) and 26% to 34% (p < 0.01), 
respectively. Laryngeal cancer treatment changed towards surgery in stage I and 
non-surgical treatment in stage III and IV disease. Survival in laryngeal cancer 
stage I remained stable and favorable at a relative survival rate of around 90%. 
Survival non-significantly changed from 54% to 49% for stage III disease and 
from 37% to 33% for disease.
CONCLUSION: Relative survival increased for all head and neck cancer sites in 
older patients, except for laryngeal cancer. For oropharyngeal, hypopharyngeal 
and advanced laryngeal cancer, a shift towards non-surgical treatment modalities 
was observed.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2021.01.014
PMID: 33648773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations of competing interest None.


175. Nat Protoc. 2021 Apr;16(4):1802-1829. doi: 10.1038/s41596-020-00476-z. Epub
2021  Mar 1.

The in vitro multilineage differentiation and maturation of lung and airway 
cells from human pluripotent stem cell-derived lung progenitors in 3D.

Rodrigues Toste de Carvalho AL(1)(2)(3)(4), Liu HY(1)(2), Chen YW(1)(2), Porotto 
M(5)(6)(7), Moscona A(5)(6)(8)(9), Snoeck HW(10)(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Columbia Center for Human Development, Columbia University Medical Center, 
New York, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY, 
USA.
(3)Life and Health Sciences Research Institute (ICVS), School of Medicine, 
University of Minho, Braga, Portugal.
(4)ICVS/3B's, PT Government Associate Laboratory, Guimarães, Portugal.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY, 
USA.
(6)Center for Host-Pathogen Interaction, Columbia University Medical Center, New 
York, NY, USA.
(7)Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Campania 'Luigi 
Vanvitelli', Caserta, Italy.
(8)Department of Microbiology & Immunology, Columbia University Medical Center, 
New York, NY, USA.
(9)Department of Physiology & Cellular Biophysics, Columbia University Medical 
Center, New York, NY, USA.
(10)Columbia Center for Human Development, Columbia University Medical Center, 
New York, NY, USA. hs2680@columbia.edu.
(11)Department of Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY, 
USA. hs2680@columbia.edu.
(12)Columbia Center for Translational Immunology, Columbia University Medical 
Center, New York, NY, USA. hs2680@columbia.edu.

Lung and airway epithelial cells generated in vitro from human pluripotent stem 
cells (hPSCs) have applications in regenerative medicine, modeling of lung 
disease, drug screening and studies of human lung development. Here, we describe 
a strategy for directed differentiation of hPSCs into mature lung and airway 
epithelial cells obtained through maturation of NKX2.1+ hPSC-derived lung 
progenitors in a 3D matrix of collagen I in the absence of glycogen synthase 
kinase 3 inhibition. This protocol is an extension of our previously published 
protocol on the directed differentiation of lung and airway epithelium from 
hPSCs that modifies the technique and offers additional applications. This 
protocol is conducted in defined media conditions, has a duration of 50-80 d, 
does not require reporter lines and results in cultures containing mature 
alveolar type II and I cells as well as airway basal, ciliated, club and 
neuroendocrine cells. We also present a flow cytometry strategy to assess 
maturation in the cultures. Several of these populations, including mature NGFR+ 
basal cells, can be prospectively isolated by cell sorting and expanded for 
further investigation.

DOI: 10.1038/s41596-020-00476-z
PMCID: PMC9460941
PMID: 33649566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Adv Ther. 2021 Apr;38(4):1811-1831. doi: 10.1007/s12325-021-01654-5. Epub
2021  Feb 27.

A Cost-Effectiveness Framework for COVID-19 Treatments for Hospitalized Patients 
in the United States.

Sheinson D(1), Dang J(1), Shah A(1), Meng Y(2), Elsea D(2), Kowal S(3).

Author information:
(1)Evidence for Access, Genentech, Inc, South San Francisco, CA, USA.
(2)Health Economics, BresMed Health Solutions, Las Vegas, NV, USA.
(3)Evidence for Access, Genentech, Inc, South San Francisco, CA, USA. 
kowal.stacey@gene.com.

INTRODUCTION: The COVID-19 pandemic is a global crisis impacting population 
health and the economy. We describe a cost-effectiveness framework for 
evaluating acute treatments for hospitalized patients with COVID-19, considering 
a broad spectrum of potential treatment profiles and perspectives within the US 
healthcare system to ensure incorporation of the most relevant clinical 
parameters, given evidence currently available.
METHODS: A lifetime model, with a short-term acute care decision tree followed 
by a post-discharge three-state Markov cohort model, was developed to estimate 
the impact of a potential treatment relative to best supportive care (BSC) for 
patients hospitalized with COVID-19. The model included information on costs and 
resources across inpatient levels of care, use of mechanical ventilation, 
post-discharge morbidity from ventilation, and lifetime healthcare and societal 
costs. Published literature informed clinical and treatment inputs, healthcare 
resource use, unit costs, and utilities. The potential health impacts and 
cost-effectiveness outcomes were assessed from US health payer, societal, and 
fee-for-service (FFS) payment model perspectives.
RESULTS: Viewing results in aggregate, treatments that conferred at least a 
mortality benefit were likely to be cost-effective, as all deterministic and 
sensitivity analyses results fell far below willingness-to-pay thresholds using 
both a US health payer and FFS payment perspective, with and without societal 
costs included. In the base case, incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) 
ranged from $22,933 from a health payer perspective using bundled payments to 
$8028 from a societal perspective using a FFS payment model. Even with 
conservative assumptions on societal impact, inclusion of societal costs 
consistently produced ICERs 40-60% lower than ICERs for the payer perspective.
CONCLUSION: Effective COVID-19 treatments for hospitalized patients may not only 
reduce disease burden but also represent good value for the health system and 
society. Though data limitations remain, this cost-effectiveness framework 
expands beyond current models to include societal costs and post-discharge 
ventilation morbidity effects of potential COVID-19 treatments.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-021-01654-5
PMCID: PMC7919620
PMID: 33650025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Endocrine. 2021 Mar;71(3):689-695. doi: 10.1007/s12020-020-02603-y. Epub
2021  Mar 1.

Monocarboxylate transporter 8 deficiency: update on clinical characteristics and 
treatment.

van Geest FS(1), Groeneweg S(1), Visser WE(2).

Author information:
(1)Academic Center For Thyroid Disease, Department of Internal Medicine, Erasmus 
Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Academic Center For Thyroid Disease, Department of Internal Medicine, Erasmus 
Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. w.e.visser@erasmusmc.nl.

Defective thyroid hormone transport due to deficiency in thyroid hormone 
transporter monocarboxylate transporter 8 (MCT8) results in severe 
neurodevelopmental delay due to cerebral hypothyroidism and in clinical negative 
sequelae following a chronic thyrotoxic state in peripheral tissues. The life 
expectancy of patients with MCT8 deficiency is severely impaired. Increased 
mortality is associated with lack of head control and being underweight at young 
age. Treatment options are available to alleviate the thyrotoxic state; 
particularly, treatment with the thyroid hormone analogue triiodothyroacetic 
acid seems a promising therapy. This review provides an overview of key clinical 
features and treatment options available and under development for this rare 
disorder.

DOI: 10.1007/s12020-020-02603-y
PMCID: PMC8016746
PMID: 33650046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The Erasmus Medical Centre (Rotterdam, 
Netherlands), which employs FSvG, SG and WEV, might receive royalties from Rare 
Thyroid Therapeutics (the manufacturer of Triac) in the future, dependent on any 
future commercialization. None of the authors will benefit personally from any 
royalties. None of the authors have personal disclosures relevant to this work.


178. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2021 Feb;32(2):513-520. doi: 
10.13287/j.1001-9332.202102.028.

Response of photosynthetic characteristics and non-structural carbohydrate 
accumulation of Betula ermanii seedlings to drought stress.

[Article in English]

Ma Y(1)(2), Su BL(1), Han YG(2), Wu XH(1)(2), Zhou WM(2), Wang QW(2), Zhou L(2), 
Yu DP(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science and Bioengineering, Shenyang University, Shenyang 
110044, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Forest Ecology and Management, Institute of Applied 
Ecology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shen-yang 110016, China.

We explored the effects of drought stress on photosynthetic characteristics and 
non-structural carbohydrate (NSC) accumulation of the timberline tree species 
Betula ermanii in Changbai Mountain with a drought control experiment. The 
results showed that drought significantly reduced the net photosynthetic rate 
and stomatal conductance, but increased water use efficiency (WUE) of B. ermanii 
seedlings. Drought dramatically improved the contents of soluble sugar and total 
NSC in leaves, barks, stems, and roots of B. ermanii seedlings, but 
significantly reduced their starch content. The stomatal conductance, 
photosynthetic rate and WUE decreased rapidly as the drought continued, whereas 
the contents of soluble sugar, starch and NSC increased and then declined. At 
the end of the experiment, 90% of the leaves turned yellow, and the ratios of 
soluble sugar to starch in the stems, barks and roots under the drought 
treatment were significantly higher than those in the control. These results 
demonstrated that B. ermanii might be a drought-avoidance species that could 
reduce water loss by rapidly reducing stomatal conductance and improving WUE 
under drought stress. B. ermanii might have evolved priority storage strategy to 
cope with water deficit through improving the content of soluble sugar in organs 
and increasing the transformation rate between starch and sugar. With the 
extension of drought stress, seedlings tended to die, since water stress might 
exceed the threshold of the plant self-regulation capacity. However, the content 
of NSC in organs did not decrease, suggesting that the death of B. ermanii under 
drought stress might not be caused by carbon starvation.

Publisher: 
以长白山林线树种岳桦为对象,利用生长控制试验进行干旱处理,研究干旱对岳桦幼苗光合特性及非结构性碳水化合物(NSC)积累的影响。结果表明:干旱显著降低了岳桦幼苗的净光合速率和气孔导度,提高了其水分利用效率;干旱显著增加了岳桦幼苗叶、皮、干和根中的可溶性糖和总NSC的含量,但显著降低了淀粉含量;随着干旱的持续,叶片的气孔导度、光合速率和瞬时水分利用效率迅速降低,而可溶性糖、淀粉和NSC则是先增后减;在试验末期,叶片90%发黄,岳桦幼苗干、皮和根中可溶性糖与淀粉含量的比值均显著高于对照。这表明岳桦在受到干旱胁迫时,迅速降低气孔导度以减少水分散失,提高水分利用效率,它属于避旱型植物;岳桦通过优先储存策略来提高组织器官中可溶性糖含量、增加淀粉与糖之间的转化率来应对水分亏缺的不利环境;在遭受持续干旱,幼苗面临死亡的时候,干旱胁迫可能超过了植物自我调节的阈值,但此时其组织器官中NSC含量并未降低,这说明岳桦最终的死亡可能不是碳饥饿导致的。.

DOI: 10.13287/j.1001-9332.202102.028
PMID: 33650360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Arch Esp Urol. 2021 Mar;74(2):224-230.

Erectile dysfunction, lower urinary tract symptoms, and quality of life in men 
above 50 years of age.

[Article in English, Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Guzmán-Esquivel J(1), Delgado-Enciso I(2), Guzmán-Solórzano JA(3), Urtiz-Licea 
AJ(3), Parra-Lomeli H(4), Ríos-Bracamontes EF(4), Murillo-Zamora E(5).

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Investigación en Epidemiología Clínica. IMSS. Delegación Colima. 
México.
(2)Universidad de Colima. Facultad de Medicina. Colima. México.
(3)Facultad de Medicina. Universidad de Colima. Las Víboras. Colima. México.
(4)Servicio de Nefrología. Clínica Hospital Miguel Trejo Ochoa. Colima. México.
(5)Departamento de Epidemiología. Unidad de Medicina Familiar. Instituto 
Mexicano del Seguro Social. Colima. México.

BACKGROUND: Lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) and erectile dysfunction (ED) 
are relevant health problems worldwide, especially in men 50 years of age and 
older. With the increase in life expectancy, their prevalence is expected to 
rise in the coming years.
AIM: To estimate the prevalence of LUTS and ED in adults 50 years of age and 
older and evaluate their relation to quality of life.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: An analytic cross-section-al study was conducted through 
a personal interview with the participants. Erectile dysfunction (IIEF-5), 
prostate symptom (IPSS), and quality of life (EuroQoL) questionnaires were 
employed. The frequency and grade of LUTS and ED were evaluated and correlated 
with health-related quality of life perception in 300 men above 50 years of age. 
Summary measures were calculated. The association of LUTS and ED with quality of 
life was evaluated with prevalence odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence 
intervals (CIs), calculated using unconditional logistic regression models.
RESULTS: Information on 300 subjects was analyzed. The general prevalence of 
LUTS and ED was 88.3% and 81.7%, respectively. Quality of life was classified as 
very poor - regular (≤ 60 points) in 18.3% of the subjects. In the multiple 
analysis, the presence of moderate LUTS (OR = 5.27, 1.08 - 9.73) or severe LUTS 
(OR = 7.05, 1.84-10.34) was associated with an increase in the possibility of 
presenting with a lower quality of life.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that erectile dysfunction and prostate symptoms 
were frequent events in the population studied, as was a low perception of 
quality of life. The opportune and efficacious treatment of those pathologies 
can potentially improve the individual and social dynamics of the persons 
affected.

Publisher: ANTECEDENTES: A nivel mundial, los Síntomas del Tracto Urinario 
Inferior (STUI) y la Disfunción Eréctil (DE) son un problema relevante de salud 
pública, especialmente en varones de 50 o más años. Se espera que con el aumento 
de la esperanza de vida, su prevalencia se incrementa aún más en los próximos 
años.
OBJETIVO: Estimar la prevalencia de los STUI y DE en adultos de 50 años o más de 
edad y evaluar su relación con la calidad de vida.MATERIAL Y MÉTODOS: Se realizó 
un estudio transversal analítico a través de una entrevista personal con los 
participantes. Se emplearon los cuestionarios de disfunción eréctil (IIEF-5), de 
síntomas prostáticos (IPSS) y la calidad de vida (EuroQoL). Se evaluó la 
frecuencia y grados de los Síntomas del Tracto Urinario Inferior y Disfunción 
Eréctil y se correlacionó con la percepción de Calidad de Vida relacionada a la 
salud en 300 varones mayores de 50 años. Se estimaron medidas sumarias. La 
asociación de STUI y DE con la calidad de vida fue evaluada con razones de 
momios (RM) prevalentes e intervalos de confianza (IC) del 95% estimados con 
modelos de regresión logística no condicional.
RESULTADOS: Información de 300 sujetos fue analizada. La prevalencia general de 
STUI y DE fue 88,3% y 81,7% respectivamente. El 18,3% de los sujetos fueron 
clasificados como con una calidad de vida muy mala – regular (≤ 60 puntos). En 
el análisis múltiple, la presencia de STUI moderados (RM = 5,27, 1,08 – 9,73) o 
severos (RM = 7,05, 1,84 -10,34) se asoció con un incremento en la posibilidad 
