The mean score of the QoL of the families was found to be 68.98%. The least and 
the most affected domains were cognitive functioning (71.67%) and worry 
(57.33%), respectively. Maximum coping was through the instrumental social 
support, active coping and religious coping. Though 27.45% were upset with the 
diagnosis, most had a "feeling of love" towards the child (72.55%). 50.98% had 
limited knowledge about DS and lacked organizational support (60.78%).
CONCLUSION: With increasing life expectancy, the gap continues concerning the 
assessment of needs beyond medical aid among DS children. Better HR-QoL and 
coping with the stress could be ensured by the provision of comprehensive health 
policies inclusive of training programs, stress management, as well as 
psychosocial and organizational support across any socio-economic strata.

© 2020 Director General, Armed Forces Medical Services. Published by Elsevier, a 
division of RELX India Pvt. Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mjafi.2020.07.010
PMCID: PMC8042493
PMID: 33867636

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have none to declare.


852. Appl Bionics Biomech. 2021 Mar 31;2021:8874833. doi: 10.1155/2021/8874833. 
eCollection 2021.

Computational Fluid Dynamics Analysis of Nasal Airway Changes after Treatment 
with C-Expander.

Xiao W(1), Liu S(1), Lu Y(1), Lei L(1), Liu N(2), Shen X(1), He Y(1), Liu O(1).

Author information:
(1)Hunan Key Laboratory of Oral Health Research & Hunan 3D Printing Engineering 
Research Center of Oral Care & Hunan Clinical Research Center of Oral Major 
Diseases and Oral Health & Xiangya Stomatological Hospital & Xiangya School of 
Stomatology, Central South University, Changsha, 410008 Hunan, China.
(2)Xingsha Hospital, Changsha County, Hunan, No. 53 Kaiyuan Road, 410199, China.

The use of the C-expander is an effective treatment modality for maxillary 
skeletal deficiencies which can cause ailments and significantly reduce life 
expectancy in late adolescents and young adults. However, the morphological and 
dynamic effects on the nasal airway have not been reported. The main goal of 
this study was to evaluate the nasal airway changes after the implementation of 
a C-expander. A sample of nine patients (8 females, 1 male, age range from 15 to 
29 years) was included. The morphology parameters and nasal airway ventilation 
parameters of pretreatment and posttreatment were measured. All study data were 
normally distributed. A paired t-test was used to evaluate the changes before 
and after treatment. After expansion, the mean and standard deviation values of 
intercanine maxillary width (CMW) and intermolar maxillary width (MMW) increased 
from 35.75 ± 2.48 mm and 54.20 ± 3.17 mm to 37.87 ± 2.26 mm (P < 0.05) and 56.65 
± 3.10 mm (P < 0.05), respectively. The nasal cavity volume increased from 
20320.00 ± 3468.25 mm3 to 23134.70 ± 3918.84 mm3 (P < 0.05). The nasal pressure 
drop decreased from 36.34 ± 3.99 Pa to 30.70 ± 3.17 Pa (P < 0.05), while the 
value of the maximum velocity decreased from 6.50 ± 0.31 m/s to 5.85 ± 0.37 m/s 
(P < 0.05). Nasal resistance dropped remarkably from 0.16 ± 0.14 Pa/ml/s to 0.08 
± 0.06 Pa/ml/s (P < 0.05). The use of C-expander can effectively broaden the 
area and volume of the nasal airway, having a positive effect in the reduction 
of nasal resistance and improvement of nasal airway ventilation. For patients 
suffering from maxillary width deficiency and respiratory disorders, a 
C-expander may be an alternative method to treat the disease.

Copyright © 2021 Wang Xiao et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2021/8874833
PMCID: PMC8032540
PMID: 33868456

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


853. Ann Appl Stat. 2021 Mar;15(1):437-459. doi: 10.1214/20-aoas1381. Epub 2021
Mar  18.

Accounting for Smoking in Forecasting Mortality and Life Expectancy.

Li Y(1), Raftery AE(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Washington.

Smoking is one of the main risk factors that has affected human mortality and 
life expectancy over the past century. Smoking accounts for a large part of the 
nonlinearities in the growth of life expectancy and of the geographic and sex 
differences in mortality. As Bongaarts (2006) and Janssen (2018) suggested, 
accounting for smoking could improve the quality of mortality forecasts due to 
the predictable nature of the smoking epidemic. We propose a new Bayesian 
hierarchical model to forecast life expectancy at birth for both sexes and for 
69 countries with good data on smoking-related mortality. The main idea is to 
convert the forecast of the non-smoking life expectancy at birth (i.e., life 
expectancy at birth removing the smoking effect) into life expectancy forecast 
through the use of the age-specific smoking attributable fraction (ASSAF). We 
introduce a new age-cohort model for the ASSAF and a Bayesian hierarchical model 
for non-smoking life expectancy at birth. The forecast performance of the 
proposed method is evaluated by out-of-sample validation compared with four 
other commonly used methods for life expectancy forecasting. Improvements in 
forecast accuracy and model calibration based on the new method are observed.

DOI: 10.1214/20-aoas1381
PMCID: PMC8048146
PMID: 33868540


854. Water (Basel). 2021 Jan 31;13(3):371. doi: 10.3390/w13030371.

The Biological Assessment and Rehabilitation of the World's Rivers: An Overview.

Feio MJ(1), Hughes RM(2)(3), Callisto M(4), Nichols SJ(5), Odume ON(6), 
Quintella BR(7)(8), Kuemmerlen M(9), Aguiar FC(10), Almeida SFP(11), 
Alonso-EguíaLis P(12), Arimoro FO(13), Dyer FJ(5), Harding JS(14), Jang S(15), 
Kaufmann PR(3)(16), Lee S(17), Li J(18), Macedo DR(19), Mendes A(20), 
Mercado-Silva N(21), Monk W(22), Nakamura K(23), Ndiritu GG(24), Ogden R(25), 
Peat M(26), Reynoldson TB(27), Rios-Touma B(28), Segurado P(8), Yates AG(29).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, MARE-Marine and Environmental Sciences Centre, 
University of Coimbra, 3000-456 Coimbra, Portugal.
(2)Amnis Opes Institute, Corvallis, OR 97333, USA.
(3)Department of Fisheries & Wildlife, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 
97331, USA.
(4)Laboratory of Ecology of Benthos, Department of Genetic, Ecology and 
Evolution, Institute of Biological Sciences, Federal University of Minas Gerais, 
Avenida Antônio Carlos 6627, CEP 31270-901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
(5)Centre for Applied Water Science, Institute for Applied Ecology, University 
of Canberra, 2601 Canberra, Australia.
(6)Unilever Centre for Environmental Water Quality, Institute for Water 
Research, Rhodes University, P.O. Box 94, Grahamstown 6140, South Africa.
(7)MARE-Marine and Environmental Sciences Centre, University of Évora, 7000-812 
Évora, Portugal.
(8)Department of Animal Biology, Faculty of Sciences of the University of 
Lisbon, Campo Grande, 1749-016 Lisboa, Portugal.
(9)Department of Zoology, School of Natural Sciences, Trinity Centre for the 
Environment, Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin, College Green, 
Dublin 2, Ireland.
(10)Centro de Estudos Florestais, Instituto Superior de Agronomia, Universidade 
de Lisboa, Tapada da Ajuda, 1349-017 Lisboa, Portugal.
(11)Department of Biology and GeoBioTec-GeoBioSciences, GeoTechnologies and 
GeoEngineering Research Centre, University of Aveiro, Campus de Santiago, 
3810-193 Aveiro, Portugal.
(12)Mexican Institute of Water Technology, Bioindicators Laboratory, Jiutepec 
Morelos 62550, Mexico.
(13)Department of Animal and Environmental Biology (Applied Hydrobiology Unit), 
Federal University of Technology, P.M.B. 65 Minna, Nigeria.
(14)School of Biologcal Sciences, University of Canterbury, 8140 Christchurch, 
New Zealand.
(15)Department of Civil Engineering, Daejin University, Hoguk-ro, Pocheon-si 
1007, Gyeonggi-do, Korea.
(16)Pacific Ecological Systems Division, Center for Public Health and 
Environmental Assessment, Office of Research and Development, U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency, Corvallis, OR 97333, USA.
(17)Korea Institute of Civil Engineering and Building Technology (KICT), 283 
Goyangdaero, Ilsanseo-gu, Goyang-si 10223, Gyeonggi-do, Korea.
(18)Key Laboratory of Yangtze River Water Environment, Ministry of Education of 
China, Tongji University, Shanghai 200092, China.
(19)Department of Geography, Geomorphology and Water Resources Laboratory, 
Institute of Geosciences, Federal University of Minas Gerais, Avenida Antônio 
Carlos 6627, CEP 31270-901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
(20)MED-Instituto Mediterrâneo para a Agricultura, Ambiente e Desenvolvimento, 
LabOr-Laboratório de Ornitologia, Universidade de Évora, Polo da Mitra, 7002-774 
Évora, Portugal.
(21)Centro de Investigación en Biodiversidad y Conservacíon, Universidad 
Autónoma del Estado de Morelos, Cuernavaca, 62209 Morelos, Mexico.
(22)Environment and Climate Change Canada and, Canadian Rivers Institute, 
Faculty of Forestry and Environmental Management, University of New Brunswick, 
Fredericton, NB E3B 5A3, Canada.
(23)Water Environment Research Group, Public Works Research Institute, 1-6 
Minamihara, Tsukuba 305-8516, Japan.
(24)School of Natural Resources and Environmental Studies, Karatina University, 
P.O. Box 1957, 10101 Karatina, Kenya.
(25)Environment, Planning and Sustainable Development Directorate, 2601 
Canberra, Australia.
(26)Wetlands, Policy and Northern Water Use Branch, Commonwealth Environmental 
Water Office, 2601 Canberra, Australia.
(27)Acadia University, Canada Creek, Wolfville, NS B0P 1V0, Canada.
(28)Grupo de Investigación en Biodiversidad, Medio Ambiente y Salud (BIOMAS), 
Facultad de Ingenierías y Ciencias Aplicadas, Ingeniería Ambiental, Universidad 
de Las Américas, Vía Nayón S/N, 170503 Quito, Ecuador.
(29)Department of Geography, Western University and Canadian Rivers Institute, 
London, ON N6A 5C2, Canada.

The biological assessment of rivers i.e., their assessment through use of 
aquatic assemblages, integrates the effects of multiple-stressors on these 
systems over time and is essential to evaluate ecosystem condition and establish 
recovery measures. It has been undertaken in many countries since the 1990s, but 
not globally. And where national or multi-national monitoring networks have 
gathered large amounts of data, the poor water body classifications have not 
necessarily resulted in the rehabilitation of rivers. Thus, here we aimed to 
identify major gaps in the biological assessment and rehabilitation of rivers 
worldwide by focusing on the best examples in Asia, Europe, Oceania, and North, 
Central, and South America. Our study showed that it is not possible so far to 
draw a world map of the ecological quality of rivers. Biological assessment of 
rivers and streams is only implemented officially nation-wide and regularly in 
the European Union, Japan, Republic of Korea, South Africa, and the USA. In 
Australia, Canada, China, New Zealand, and Singapore it has been implemented 
officially at the state/province level (in some cases using common protocols) or 
in major catchments or even only once at the national level to define reference 
conditions (Australia). In other cases, biological monitoring is driven by a 
specific problem, impact assessments, water licenses, or the need to 
rehabilitate a river or a river section (as in Brazil, South Korea, China, 
Canada, Japan, Australia). In some countries monitoring programs have only been 
explored by research teams mostly at the catchment or local level (e.g., Brazil, 
Mexico, Chile, China, India, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam) or implemented by 
citizen science groups (e.g., Southern Africa, Gambia, East Africa, Australia, 
Brazil, Canada). The existing large-extent assessments show a striking loss of 
biodiversity in the last 2-3 decades in Japanese and New Zealand rivers (e.g., 
42% and 70% of fish species threatened or endangered, respectively). A poor 
condition (below Good condition) exists in 25% of South Korean rivers, half of 
the European water bodies, and 44% of USA rivers, while in Australia 30% of the 
reaches sampled were significantly impaired in 2006. Regarding river 
rehabilitation, the greatest implementation has occurred in North America, 
Australia, Northern Europe, Japan, Singapore, and the Republic of Korea. Most 
rehabilitation measures have been related to improving water quality and river 
connectivity for fish or the improvement of riparian vegetation. The limited 
extent of most rehabilitation measures (i.e., not considering the entire 
catchment) often constrains the improvement of biological condition. Yet, many 
rehabilitation projects also lack pre-and/or post-monitoring of ecological 
condition, which prevents assessing the success and shortcomings of the recovery 
measures. Economic constraints are the most cited limitation for implementing 
monitoring programs and rehabilitation actions, followed by technical 
limitations, limited knowledge of the fauna and flora and their life-history 
traits (especially in Africa, South America and Mexico), and poor awareness by 
decision-makers. On the other hand, citizen involvement is recognized as key to 
the success and sustainability of rehabilitation projects. Thus, establishing 
rehabilitation needs, defining clear goals, tracking progress towards achieving 
them, and involving local populations and stakeholders are key recommendations 
for rehabilitation projects (Table 1). Large-extent and long-term monitoring 
programs are also essential to provide a realistic overview of the condition of 
rivers worldwide. Soon, the use of DNA biological samples and eDNA to 
investigate aquatic diversity could contribute to reducing costs and thus 
increase monitoring efforts and a more complete assessment of biodiversity. 
Finally, we propose developing transcontinental teams to elaborate and improve 
technical guidelines for implementing biological monitoring programs and river 
rehabilitation and establishing common financial and technical frameworks for 
managing international catchments. We also recommend providing such expert teams 
through the United Nations Environment Program to aid the extension of 
biomonitoring, bioassessment, and river rehabilitation knowledge globally.

DOI: 10.3390/w13030371
PMCID: PMC8048141
PMID: 33868721

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no 
conflict of interest. The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the 
collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the 
manuscript, or in the decision to publish the results. This manuscript was 
reviewed by the USEPA Center for Public Health and Environmental Assessment’s 
Pacific Ecological Systems Division and approved for publication. Approval does 
not signify that the contents reflect the views of the USEPA, nor does mention 
of trade names or commercial products constitute endorsement or recommendation 
for use.


855. Cureus. 2021 Mar 13;13(3):e13872. doi: 10.7759/cureus.13872.

Pregnancy and Childbirth: An Unexpected Cakewalk for a Mother With Beta 
Thalassemia Major Homozygous for IVS (G-C) Mutation.

Ghosh MD(1), Datta MR(1), Singh V(1), Rana F(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Tata Main Hospital, Jamshedpur, 
IND.
(2)Department of Pathology, Tata Main Hospital, Jamshedpur, IND.

The thalassemias are the most common single-gene disorders of hemoglobin 
synthesis. The salient features of beta thalassemia major, in which both 
alleles of the HBB gene are affected, are transfusion dependency and iron 
overload. Although with advances in treatment, the life expectancy in such 
patients has increased, they have difficulty in conceiving. We report a case of 
pregnancy in a beta thalassemia major patient who was transfusion independent 
and had no iron overload. Genetic analysis revealed IVS 1-5 (G-C) mutation in 
the homozygous state which usually manifests in severe disease and blood 
transfusion dependency. On the contrary, she did not need blood transfusion, had 
a smooth antenatal period and a vaginal delivery at term with a favorable 
childbirth experience. This case report highlights complex genetic interplay and 
the role of fetal hemoglobin (HbF) enhancer loci which modulates HbF levels 
thereby raising total hemoglobin levels.

Copyright © 2021, Ghosh et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.13872
PMCID: PMC8043053
PMID: 33868836

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


856. Front Sociol. 2019 Sep 18;4:68. doi: 10.3389/fsoc.2019.00068. eCollection
2019.

The Effects of Retention Measures on Retirement Timing-Do Financial Crises 
Matter?

Midtsundstad T(1), Hermansen Å(2).

Author information:
(1)Fafo Institute for Labour and Social Research, Oslo, Norway.
(2)Department of Social Work, Child Welfare and Social Policy, Oslo Metropolitan 
University, Oslo, Norway.

The combined effect of rising life expectancy and declining fertility has made 
"aging" a dominant topic on the policy agenda across Europe. With the aim of 
retaining older workers and facilitating longer working lives, offering 
retention measures, such as the possibility of phased retirement, additional 
leave, and/or bonuses to older workers, has become a widespread strategy among 
Norwegian companies to combat voluntary early retirement. However, analyses do 
not find any overall effect of offering such retention measures, although some 
single measures like additional leave and bonuses seem to have reduced early 
retirement among older workers in Norway. The aim of this article is to examine 
whether the limited effect of companies' retention measures on early retirement 
have been impacted by the financial crisis of 2007/08. Our hypothesis is that 
the effect of companies' retention measures on early retirement will be less if 
companies were affected by the financial crisis of 2007/08. Although most 
companies affected by the crisis of 2007/08 still offers retention measures, the 
financial hardship following the crisis may force some to priorities to cut cost 
and reduce staff, which may in turn lead to earlier rather than delayed 
retirement among their older employees. In order to investigate whether the 
effects of retention measures on early retirement vary between individuals in 
companies affected by the financial crisis of 2007/08 or not, we use data from a 
survey carried out among a representative sample of Norwegian companies in 2010 
combined with individual register data on all employees in these companies in 
the period 2000-2010. Using individual fixed-effects in combination with a 
linear probability model we did not find that the financial crisis of 2007/08 
impact on retention measures overall effects on early retirement. However, 
working in a company affected by the financial crisis of 2007/08 seem to reduce 
bonuses and extra days offs' effect on early retirement among private sector 
employees; although the effects were not statistically significant. Hence it 
indicates, as expected, that the effect of retention measures on early 
retirement in the private sector are vulnerable to changes in companies' 
performance and the overall market situation.

Copyright © 2019 Midtsundstad and Hermansen.

DOI: 10.3389/fsoc.2019.00068
PMCID: PMC8022639
PMID: 33869390


857. CellR4 Repair Replace Regen Reprogram. 2014;2(1):e742. Epub 2014 Feb 5.

Cellular Therapies and Regenerative Strategies for Diabetes - Proceeding of the 
STEMSO Conference.

Ricordi C(1), Inverardi L(1), Pileggi A(1), Pastori RL(1), Dominguez-Bendala 
J(1).

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Research Institute and Cell Transplant Program, University of Miami 
Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL, USA.

Diabetes is now considered a growing global epidemic with sizable negative 
effects on patients' quality of life and life expectancy, and escalating 
economic impact (41% growth in the past five year), now representing health care 
ex-penditure impact of 256 Billion/year in the US alone. Objectives of cellular 
therapies and regenerative medicine strategies for treatment of diabetes are to 
reverse the disease condition and prevent the development of the severe chronic 
complications that can affect most organ systems in a large proportion of 
patients over time. Cell based therapies include the combination of 
immunomodulatory approaches aimed at restoring self tolerance (i.e., in the case 
of autoimmune diabetes) and at inducing permanent acceptance of transplanted 
tissues (in the case of allogeneic donors), or immune protection (i.e., 
engineered microenvironment and/or encapsulation) so that the immune system can 
no longer destroy the new insulin producing cells introduced either by 
regenerating, reprogramming or replacement. Several approaches are currently 
under evaluation for restoration of beta cell mass. The prototype strategy for 
Replacement is pancreatic islet transplantation, which is now an approved 
procedure in several countries. Reprogramming from non insulin-producing cells 
or Regeneration strategies could represent an appealing alternative to overcome 
shortage of deceased donor organs for transplantation. The selection of the most 
appropriate source for insulin producing cells is still not defined and the 
selected alternatives between replacement, reprogramming and regeneration 
strategies will be further developed in pre-clinical model systems and pilot 
clinical trials, while carefully assessing safety, efficacy and 
cost-effectiveness, as well as the challenges imposed by scaling up the selected 
technologies to meet the demand of the millions of affected patients who could 
benefit from these strategies.

PMCID: PMC8048034
PMID: 33869659

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: The Authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interests.


858. Neurobiol Stress. 2021 May;14:100326. doi: 10.1016/j.ynstr.2021.100326. Epub
 2021 Apr 13.

Alterations of frontal-temporal gray matter volume associate with clinical 
measures of older adults with COVID-19.

Duan K(1)(2), Premi E(3)(4), Pilotto A(4), Cristillo V(4), Benussi A(4), Libri 
I(4), Giunta M(4), Bockholt HJ(2), Liu J(2)(5), Campora R(6), Pezzini A(4), 
Gasparotti R(6), Magoni M(3), Padovani A(4), Calhoun VD(1)(2)(5)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Georgia Institute of 
Technology, Atlanta, USA.
(2)Tri-Institutional Center for Translational Research in Neuroimaging and Data 
Science (TReNDS), Georgia Institute of Technology, Georgia State University, 
Emory University, Atlanta, USA.
(3)Stroke Unit, Azienda Socio Sanitaria Territoriale Spedali Civili, Spedali 
Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy.
(4)Neurology Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University 
of Brescia, Italy.
(5)Department of Computer Science, Georgia State University, Atlanta, USA.
(6)Neuroradiology Unit, Department of Medical and Surgical Specialties, 
Radiological Sciences and Public Health, University of Brescia and ASST Spedali 
Civili Hospital, Brescia, Italy.
(7)Department of Psychology, Computer Science, Neurosciences, Mathematics & 
Statistics, Georgia State University, Atlanta, USA.

COVID-19, the infectious disease caused by the most recently discovered severe 
acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2), has become a global 
pandemic. It dramatically affects people's health and daily life. Neurological 
complications are increasingly documented for patients with COVID-19. However, 
the effect of COVID-19 on the brain is less studied, and existing quantitative 
neuroimaging analyses of COVID-19 were mainly based on the univariate 
voxel-based morphometry analysis (VBM) that requires corrections for a large 
number of tests for statistical significance, multivariate approaches that can 
reduce the number of tests to be corrected have not been applied to study 
COVID-19 effect on the brain yet. In this study, we leveraged source-based 
morphometry (SBM) analysis, a multivariate extension of VBM, to identify changes 
derived from computed tomography scans in covarying gray matter volume patterns 
underlying COVID-19 in 120 neurological patients (including 58 cases with 
COVID-19 and 62 patients without COVID-19 matched for age, gender and diseases). 
SBM identified that lower gray matter volume (GMV) in superior/medial/middle 
frontal gyri was significantly associated with a higher level of disability 
(modified Rankin Scale) at both discharge and six months follow-up phases even 
when controlling for cerebrovascular diseases. GMV in superior/medial/middle 
frontal gyri was also significantly reduced in patients receiving oxygen therapy 
compared to patients not receiving oxygen therapy. Patients with fever presented 
significant GMV reduction in inferior/middle temporal gyri and fusiform gyrus 
compared to patients without fever. Patients with agitation showed GMV reduction 
in superior/medial/middle frontal gyri compared to patients without agitation. 
Patients with COVID-19 showed no significant GMV differences from patients 
without COVID-19 in any brain region. Results suggest that COVID-19 may affect 
the frontal-temporal network in a secondary manner through fever or lack of 
oxygen.

© 2021 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.ynstr.2021.100326
PMCID: PMC8041745
PMID: 33869679

Conflict of interest statement: Andrea Pilotto is consultant and served on the 
scientific advisory board of Z-cube (Technology Division of Zambon Pharma), 
received speaker honoraria from Abbvie, Biomarin and Zambon Pharmaceuticals. 
Alessandro Padovani received grant support from Ministry of Health (MINSAL) and 
10.13039/501100003407Ministry of Education, Research and University (MIUR), from 
10.13039/501100002803CARIPLO Foundation; personal compensation as a 
consultant/scientific advisory board member for Avanir, Lundbeck, Eli-Lilly, 
Neuraxpharma, Biogen, GE Health. The other authors report no conflict of 
interest.


859. Lancet Reg Health Eur. 2021 Mar;2:100023. doi: 10.1016/j.lanepe.2020.100023.

Trends in life expectancy and healthy life years at birth and age 65 in the UK, 
2008-2016, and other countries of the EU28: An observational cross-sectional 
study.

Welsh CE(1), Matthews FE(1), Jagger C(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Health Sciences Institute, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Newcastle 
University, England United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: As society ages, promoting the health of the extra years of life is 
of paramount importance for health, social care and pension provision. Increases 
in life expectancy in the UK and elsewhere have slowed in recent years, but the 
reasons for this are unclear. No formal comparison of trends in healthy life 
years between the UK and the other countries of the EU28 in recent times has 
been published. These countries are geographically proximate, and share many 
social, cultural and demographic properties, making them interesting and useful 
comparators, especially as the UK prepared to leave the European Union in 2020.
METHODS: We calculated sex-specific healthy life years (HLY), unhealthy life 
years (ULY), mild and severe ULY at birth and age 65 using life tables and 
age-specific prevalence of activity limitation amongst the EU28 between 2008 and 
2016 from EuroHex. Trends in life expectancy, HLY, ULY and proportion of life 
spent healthy (HLY%) were compared. We then decomposed HLY temporal changes into 
relative effects of changes in healthy life and mortality, by age group.
FINDINGS: Life expectancy at birth, and age 65, in the UK were increasing 
rapidly in 2008 but slowed around 2011. Germany, Portugal and France showed 
evidence of a similar slowing. HLY at birth in the UK decreased, whereas it 
increased in most EU28 countries. The UK experienced a period of absolute 
expansion of unhealthy life in both sexes. The reduction in HLY at birth in the 
UK was mainly attributable to increases in unhealthy life in younger age groups.
INTERPRETATION: The UK's performance relative to the other countries of the EU28 
was poor after 2011, combining static life expectancy and reductions in healthy 
life years. These trends suggest that the UK government's Ageing Society Grand 
Challenge (to increase the healthy life expectancy by five years by 2035) will 
be difficult to attain.
FUNDING: National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Policy Research Programme 
conducted through the NIHR Older People and Frailty Policy Research Unit, 
PR-PRU-1217-21502. The views expressed are those of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the NIHR or the Department of Health and Social Care.

© 2021 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lanepe.2020.100023
PMCID: PMC8042672
PMID: 33870247

Conflict of interest statement: Dr Welsh has nothing to disclose. Dr Jagger has 
nothing to disclose. Dr Matthews has nothing to disclose.


860. J Med Econ. 2021 Jan-Dec;24(1):607-619. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2021.1917139.

Cost-effectiveness of nivolumab in squamous and non-squamous non-small cell lung 
cancer in Canada and Sweden: an update with 5-year data.

Chaudhary MA(1), Holmberg C(2), Lakhdari K(3), Smare C(4), Theriou C(4), Dale 
P(4), Penrod JR(1).

Author information:
(1)Worldwide Health Economics and Outcomes Research, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
Princeton, NJ, USA.
(2)Value & Health Economics and Outcomes Research, Bristol Myers Squibb, Solna, 
Sweden.
(3)Market Access & HTA, Bristol Myers Squibb Canada, St. Laurent, QC, Canada.
(4)Parexel International, London, UK.

AIMS: Nivolumab has been approved for advanced squamous and non-squamous 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) following platinum-based chemotherapy in both 
Canada and Sweden. We aimed to determine the value-for-money of nivolumab versus 
docetaxel in a Canadian and Swedish setting based on 5-year data.
METHODS: These cost effectiveness analyses used partitioned survival models with 
three mutually exclusive health states: progression-free, progressed disease, 
and death. All clinical parameters were derived from two registration phase 3 
randomized trials, CheckMate 017 and CheckMate 057, with a minimum follow-up of 
5 years. Treatment duration was based on time-on-treatment data from the 
clinical trials. Costs were derived from published sources. The primary outcomes 
of the analyses were quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), life-years gained, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). The model input parameters for 
each analysis were chosen in line with guidance from the respective HTA 
authorities.
RESULTS: From a Canadian payer perspective, the ICERs were CAN$140,753 per QALY 
in the squamous population, and CAN$173,804 per QALY in the non-squamous 
population, assuming a 10-year time horizon and a 5% discount rate for both 
costs and outcomes. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that changes to the 
discount rates for outcomes had the highest impact on the ICERs. In the Swedish 
analysis, the ICERs were SEK568,895 per QALY in the squamous population and 
SEK662,991 per QALY in the non-squamous population, assuming a 15-year time 
horizon, a 3% discount rate, and a 2-year maximum treatment duration for 
nivolumab. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that the ICERs were most sensitive 
to changes in the discount rate for outcomes.
CONCLUSION: These updated analyses, based on more mature trial data with a 
minimum follow-up of 5 years, generate more favorable ICERs versus the 
previously submitted HTA assessments that resulted in approval of nivolumab for 
patients with previously treated NSCLC in Canada and Sweden.

DOI: 10.1080/13696998.2021.1917139
PMID: 33870833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2021 Apr 28;13(16):19193-19199. doi: 
10.1021/acsami.0c22377. Epub 2021 Apr 19.

3D-Printed Bioplastics with Shape-Memory Behavior Based on Native Bovine Serum 
Albumin.

Sanchez-Rexach E(1)(2), Smith PT(2), Gomez-Lopez A(1), Fernandez M(3), 
Cortajarena AL(3)(4), Sardon H(1), Nelson A(2).

Author information:
(1)POLYMAT, University of the Basque Country UPV/EHU, Donostia-San Sebastian 
20018, Spain.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, 
United States.
(3)Center for Cooperative Research in Biomaterials (CIC biomaGUNE), Basque 
Research and Technology Alliance, Donostia-San Sebastian 20014, Spain.
(4)Ikerbasque, Basque Foundation for Science, Bilbao 48009, Spain.

Bio-based plastics that can supplant petroleum-derived materials are necessary 
to meet the future demands of sustainability in the life cycle of plastic 
materials. While there are significant efforts to develop protein-based plastic 
materials for commercial use, their application is limited by poor 
processability and limitations in mechanical performance. Here, we present a 
bovine serum albumin (BSA)-based resin for stereolithographic apparatus (SLA) 3D 
printing that affords bioplastic objects with shape-memory behavior. We 
demonstrate that the native conformation of these globular proteins is largely 
retained in the 3D-printed constructs and that each protein molecule possesses a 
"stored length" that could be revealed during mechanical deformation (extension 
or compression) of the 3D bioplastic objects. While the plastically deformed 
objects could retain this state for an indefinite period of time, heating the 
object or submerging in water allowed it to return to its original 3D-printed 
shape.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.0c22377
PMID: 33871260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Am J Clin Nutr. 2021 Aug 2;114(2):530-539. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/nqab076.

Pathways to "5-a-day": modeling the health impacts and environmental footprints 
of meeting the target for fruit and vegetable intake in the United Kingdom.

Eustachio Colombo P(1), Milner J(2), Scheelbeek PFD(2), Taylor A(3), Parlesak 
A(4), Kastner T(5), Nicholas O(6), Elinder LS(1), Dangour AD(2), Green R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Public Health, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Centre on Climate Change and Planetary Health, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom.
(3)The Food Foundation, London, United Kingdom.
(4)Global Nutrition and Health, University College Copenhagen, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(5)Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre, Frankfurt, Germany.
(6)Department of Statistical Science, University College London, London, United 
Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Fruit and vegetable consumption in the United Kingdom is currently 
well below recommended levels, with a significant associated public health 
burden. The United Kingdom has committed to reducing its carbon emissions to net 
zero by 2050, and this transition will require shifts towards plant-based diets.
OBJECTIVE: The aim was to quantify the health effects, environmental footprints, 
and cost associated with 4 different pathways to meeting the United Kingdom's 
"5-a-day" recommendation for fruit and vegetable consumption.
METHODS: Dietary data based on 18,006 food diaries from 4528 individuals 
participating in the UK National Diet and Nutrition Survey (2012/13-2016/17) 
constituted the baseline diet. Linear programming was used to model the 
hypothetical adoption of the 5-a-day (400 g) recommendation, which was assessed 
according to 4 pathways differing in their prioritization of fruits versus 
vegetables and UK-produced versus imported varieties. Increases in fruit and 
vegetable consumption were substituted for consumption of sweet snacks and meat, 
respectively. Changes in life expectancy were assessed using the IOMLIFET life 
table model. Greenhouse gas emissions (GHGEs), blue water footprint (WF), and 
total diet cost were quantified for each 5-a-day diet.
RESULTS: Achieving the 5-a-day target in the United Kingdom could increase 
average life expectancy at birth by 7-8 mo and reduce diet-related GHGEs by 6.1 
to 12.2 Mt carbon dioxide equivalents/y; blue WFs would change by -0.14 to +0.07 
km3/y. Greater reductions in GHGEs were achieved by prioritizing increased 
vegetable consumption over fruit, whereas the greatest reduction in WF was 
obtained by prioritizing vegetable varieties produced in the United Kingdom. All 
consumption pathways increased diet cost (£0.34-£0.46/d).
CONCLUSIONS: Benefits to both population and environmental health could be 
expected from consumption pathways that meet the United Kingdom's 5-a-day target 
for fruit and vegetables. Our analysis identifies cross-sectoral trade-offs and 
opportunities for national policy to promote fruit and vegetable consumption in 
the United Kingdom.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
American Society for Nutrition.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/nqab076
PMCID: PMC8326030
PMID: 33871601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. J Cancer Surviv. 2022 Apr;16(2):408-420. doi: 10.1007/s11764-021-01036-4.
Epub  2021 Apr 19.

Is accurate routine cancer prognostication psychologically harmful? 5-year 
outcomes of life expectancy prognostication in uveal melanoma survivors.

Brown SL(1), Fisher P(2), Hope-Stone L(2)(3), Damato B(3)(4), Heimann H(3), 
Hussain R(3), Cherry MG(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Care and Mental Health, University of Liverpool, 
Liverpool, L69 3GB, UK. slbrown@liverpool.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Primary Care and Mental Health, University of Liverpool, 
Liverpool, L69 3GB, UK.
(3)Liverpool Ocular Oncology Centre, Liverpool University Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust, Liverpool, UK.
(4)Nuffield Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Nuffield Department of Clinical 
Neurosciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, OX3 9DU, UK.

PURPOSE: Prognostication in cancer is growing in importance as increasingly 
accurate tools are developed. Prognostic accuracy intensifies ethical concerns 
that a poor prognosis could be psychologically harmful to survivors. Uveal 
melanoma (UM) prognostication allows survivors to be reliably told that life 
expectancy is either normal (good prognosis) or severely curtailed because of 
metastatic disease (poor prognosis). Treatment cannot change life expectancy. To 
identify whether prognosis is associated with psychological harm, we compared 
harm in UM survivors with good and poor prognoses and those who declined testing 
and compared these outcomes to general population norms.
METHODS: Non-randomized 5-year study of a consecutive series of 708 UM survivors 
(51.6% male, mean age 69.03, SD=12.12) with observations at 6, 12, 24, 36, 48 
and 60 months. We operationalized psychological harm as anxiety and depression 
symptoms, worry about cancer recurrence (WREC) and poor quality of life (QoL).
RESULTS: Compared to other groups, survivors with poor prognoses showed 
initially elevated anxiety and depression and consistently elevated worry about 
local or distant recurrence over 5 years. Good prognoses were not associated 
with outcomes. Generally, no prognostic groups reported anxiety, depression and 
WREC or QoL scores that exceeded general population norms.
CONCLUSIONS: Using a large sample, we found that harm accruing from a poor 
prognosis was statistically significant over 5 years, but did not exceed general 
non-cancer population norms.
IMPLICATIONS FOR CANCER SURVIVORS: Survivors desire prognostic information. At a 
population level, we do not believe that our findings show sufficiently strong 
links between prognostication outcome and psychological harm to deny patients 
the option of knowing their prognosis. Nonetheless, it is important that 
patients are informed of potential adverse psychological consequences of a poor 
prognosis.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11764-021-01036-4
PMCID: PMC8964647
PMID: 33871760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


864. J Biomed Mater Res B Appl Biomater. 2021 Nov;109(11):1909-1923. doi: 
10.1002/jbm.b.34835. Epub 2021 Apr 19.

Surface modifications to enhance osseointegration-Resulting material properties 
and biological responses.

Nobles KP(1), Janorkar AV(1), Williamson RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Materials Science, School of Dentistry, University 
of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, Mississippi, USA.

As life expectancy and the age of the general population increases so does the 
need for improved implants. A major contributor to the failure of implants is 
poor osseointegration, which is typically described as the direct connection 
between bone and implant. This leads to unnecessary complications and an 
increased burden on the patient population. Modification of the implant surfaces 
through novel techniques, such as varying topography and/or applying coatings, 
has become a popular method to enhance the osseointegration capability of 
implants. Recent research has shown that particular surface features influence 
how bone cells interact with a material; however, it is unknown which exact 
features achieve optimal bone integration. In this review, current methods of 
modifying surfaces will be highlighted, and the resulting surface 
characteristics and biological responses are discussed. Review of the current 
strategies of surface modifications found that many coating types are more 
advantageous when used in combination; however, finding a surface modification 
that utilizes the mutual beneficial effects of important surface characteristics 
while still maintaining commercial viability is where future challenges exist.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jbm.b.34835
PMID: 33871951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Dev Neurorehabil. 2022 Jan;25(1):10-18. doi: 10.1080/17518423.2021.1914763.
Epub  2021 Apr 19.

Kinematic and Temporospatial Changes in Children with Cerebral Palsy during the 
Initial Stages of Gait Development.

Dimakopoulos R(1)(2), Syrogiannopoulos G(1), Grivea I(1), Dailiana Z(3), 
Youroukos S(4), Spinou A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Thessaly, Faculty of Medicine, 
Larissa, Greece.
(2)Laboratory of Neuromuscular and Cardiovascular Study of Motion, Physiotherapy 
Department, University of West Attica, Greece.
(3)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Thessaly, Faculty of 
Medicine, Larissa, Greece.
(4)1st Pediatric Clinic, University of Athens, "Agia Sofia" Children's Hospital, 
Athens, Greece.
(5)Population Health Sciences, Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's 
College London, London, UK.

PURPOSE: To identify changes in the gait kinematics and temporospatial 
parameters of children with bilateral Cerebral Palsy (CP) at 8 months after the 
onset of independent walking and identify differences to Typical Development 
(TD) children at the onset of independent walking and at 8 months follow up.
METHOD: Sixteen children with bilateral CP, GMFCS levels I and II, and 15 TD 
children were recruited. Gait kinematics and temporospatial parameters were 
recorded using a 3-D gait analysis system; the sagittal plane of the lower limb 
joints was analyzed. Baseline measurements were recorded at the individual's 
onset of independent walking and follow up was after 8 months.
RESULTS: Compared to baseline, children with bilateral CP demonstrated increased 
(mean difference ± SE) plantar flexion (11.79 ± 2.96), single support 
(0.04 ± 0.01), step length (0.2 ± 0.05) and stride length (0.4 ± 0.09), at 
follow up; all p < .05. Compared to TD children, they also had lower gait speed 
(0.16 ± 0.05), higher single support (0.02 ± 0.01) and lower maximum knee 
extension (9.14 ± 4.49) during the swing phase, at baseline and follow up 
(0.1 ± 0.04, 0.05 ± 0.01, 23.04 ± 4.17, respectively); all p < .05.
CONCLUSION: There are changes in the sagittal plane kinematics and 
temporospatial parameters of the gait during the first 8 months of independent 
walking. These indicate gait maturation changes and highlight the impact of 
walking experience on the gait characteristics of children with bilateral CP.

DOI: 10.1080/17518423.2021.1914763
PMID: 33872103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. ACS Nano. 2021 Apr 27;15(4):7563-7574. doi: 10.1021/acsnano.1c01040. Epub
2021  Apr 19.

Glyconanofluorides as Immunotracers with a Tunable Core Composition for 
Sensitive Hotspot Magnetic Resonance Imaging of Inflammatory Activity.

Cohen D(1), Mashiach R(1), Houben L(2), Galisova A(1), Addadi Y(3), Kain D(4), 
Lubart A(4), Blinder P(4), Allouche-Arnon H(1), Bar-Shir A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Organic Chemistry, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 
7610001, Israel.
(2)Department of Chemical Research Support, Weizmann Institute of Science, 
Rehovot 7610001, Israel.
(3)Life Sciences Core Facilities, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 
7610001, Israel.
(4)Neurobiology, Biochemistry and Biophysics School, George S. Wise Faculty of 
Life Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel.

Nature-inspired nanosized formulations based on an imageable, small-sized 
inorganic core scaffold, on which biomolecules are assembled to form 
nanobiomimetics, hold great promise for both early diagnostics and developed 
therapeutics. Nevertheless, the fabrication of nanobiomimetics that allow 
noninvasive background-free mapping of pathological events with improved 
sensitivity, enhanced specificity, and multiplexed capabilities remains a major 
challenge. Here, we introduce paramagnetic glyconanofluorides as small-sized 
(<10 nm) glycomimetics for immunotargeting and sensitive noninvasive in vivo19F 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) mapping of inflammation. A very short T1 
relaxation time (70 ms) of the fluorides was achieved by doping the 
nanofluorides' solid crystal core with paramagnetic Sm3+, resulting in a 
significant 8-fold enhancement in their 19F MRI sensitivity, allowing faster 
acquisition and improved detectability levels. The fabricated nanosized 
glycomimetics exhibit significantly enhanced uptake within activated immune 
cells, providing background-free in vivo mapping of inflammatory activity, 
demonstrated in both locally induced inflammation and clinically related 
neuropathology animal models. Fabricating two types of nanofluorides, each with 
a distinct chemical shift, allowed us to exploit the color-like features of 19F 
MRI to map, in real time, immune specificity and preferred targetability of the 
paramagnetic glyconanofluorides, demonstrating the approach's potential 
extension to noninvasive multitarget imaging scenarios that are not yet 
applicable for nanobiomimetics based on other nanocrystal cores.

DOI: 10.1021/acsnano.1c01040
PMCID: PMC8155386
PMID: 33872494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


867. World Neurosurg. 2021 Jul;151:5. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2021.04.017. Epub 2021
Apr  17.

Combined Endonasal-Transorbital Approach to Manage the Far Lateral Frontal 
Sinus: Surgical Technique.

Arosio AD(1), Coden E(2), Valentini M(1), Czaczkes C(1), Battaglia P(3), Bignami 
M(3), Castelnuovo P(3), Karligkiotis A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of 
Insubria, Varese, Italy.
(2)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of 
Insubria, Varese, Italy. Electronic address: codenelisa@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of 
Insubria, Varese, Italy; Department of Biotechnology and Life Sciences, Head and 
Neck Surgery & Forensic Dissection Research Center, University of Insubria, 
Varese, Italy.
(4)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, ASST Sette Laghi, 
Varese, Italy.

In recent decades, the ever-expanding use of endoscopes and development of 
dedicated instrumentation have reshaped the panorama of surgical approaches to 
the frontal sinus.1 Nonetheless, the far lateral portion of the sinus might 
still represent a concern, especially in cases with unfavorable or distorted 
anatomy.2,3 We report the case of a 52-year-old man, referred to our department 
for recurrent episodes of left orbital swelling and supraorbital headache, 3 
months after Draf III frontal sinusotomy for marsupialization of multiple 
frontal mucoceles. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging scans were 
consistent with persistent inflammatory tissue in the far lateral left frontal 
sinus. Revision surgery was performed, adopting a combined endonasal orbital 
transposition3 and superior eyelid transorbital approach.4,5 The postoperative 
course was uneventful, and the microbiologic and histologic examinations 
demonstrated noninvasive Aspergillus fumigatus infection. The radiologic control 
showed patency of the frontal recess and complete clearance of the sinus. The 
patient is asymptomatic after 16 months (Video 1). The transorbital approach is 
effective in managing orbital and frontal sinus diseases,6 and the combination 
with the endonasal route grants complete access to the frontal sinus, even in 
cases of high pneumatization and lateral extension.4,7 Multiportal transorbital 
approaches represent additional techniques in the rhinologist's surgical 
armamentarium, which can overcome the limits of a single port approach.8,9 
Reports on their use providing technical hints and critical considerations are 
to be encouraged to ease and stimulate the surgical training in this field.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2021.04.017
PMID: 33872838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. New Phytol. 1991 Oct;119(2):315-319. doi:
10.1111/j.1469-8137.1991.tb01036.x.

Experimental studies of lobe growth in the lichen Parmelia conspersa (Ehrh. ex 
Ach.) Ach.

Armstrong RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Vision Sciences, Aston University, Birmingham B4 7ET, UK.

The radial growth of individual lobes of the foliose lichen, Parmelia conspersa 
(Ehrh. ex Ach.) Ach., was studied to determine whether (1) adjacent lobes 
exchange carbohydrate and (2) marginal competition between lobes influences 
radial growth. In a survey of thalli of different size, the number of marginal 
lobes was linearly related to thallus circumference. However, the relationship 
between mean lobe width and thallus circumference was fitted by a second order 
polynomial. Hence, mean lobe width may reach a maximum in thalli approx. 3 cm in 
diameter. The interactions between marginal lobes were studied by either 
painting single lobes with acrylic paint or by removing lobes from the thallus. 
Painting the whole of a lobe virtually stopped its radial growth while partially 
painted lobes grew less than control lobes. The radial growth of a lobe was 
unaffected by either completely painting or removing its neighbour. Removal of 
both neighbouring lobes did not influence the radial growth of a lobe but 
severing the lobe from the thallus reduced its radial growth. In addition, lobe 
width increased significantly when both neighbouring lobes were removed. These 
results suggest that adjacent lobes have a considerable degree of independence 
and that there is little exchange of carbohydrate between them. In addition, 
marginal competition between adjacent lobes may restrict the lateral extension 
of a lobe and this may maintain a more constant mean lobe width in larger 
thalli. It is possible that the intensity of marginal competition between 
adjacent lobes may vary with thallus size and this could be a factor determining 
the growth curve of a foliose lichen throughout its life.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.1991.tb01036.x
PMID: 33874137


869. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 2022 Feb;39(2):250-257. doi:
10.1177/10499091211010722.  Epub 2021 Apr 20.

Help Me Understand: Providing Palliative Care to Individuals With Serious Mental 
Illness.

Hinrichs KLM(1)(2), Woolverton CB(1)(2)(3), Meyerson JL(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Mental Health Service, 20026VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, 20026VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(6)Department of Medicine, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, 
USA.

Individuals with serious mental illness (SMI) have shortened life expectancy 
with increased risk of developing comorbid medical illnesses. They might have 
difficulty accessing care and can be lost to follow-up due to complex 
socioeconomic factors, placing them at greater risk of dying from chronic or 
undiagnosed conditions. This, in combination with stigma associated with SMI, 
can result in lower quality end-of-life care. Interdisciplinary palliative care 
teams are in a unique position to lend assistance to those with SMI given their 
expertise in serious illness communication, values-based care, and psychosocial 
support. However, palliative care teams might be unfamiliar with the hallmark 
features of the various SMI diagnoses. Consequently, recognizing and managing 
exacerbations of SMI while delivering concurrent palliative or end-of-life care 
can feel challenging. The goal of this narrative review is to describe the 
benefits of providing palliative care to individuals with SMI with concrete 
suggestions for communication and use of recovery-oriented language in the 
treatment of individuals with SMI. The salient features of 3 SMI 
diagnoses-Bipolar Disorders, Major Depressive Disorder, and Schizophrenia-are 
outlined through case examples. Recommendations for working with individuals who 
have SMI and other life-limiting illness are provided, including strategies to 
effectively manage SMI exacerbations.

DOI: 10.1177/10499091211010722
PMID: 33874784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2021 Aug;47(8):1891-1899. doi: 10.1016/j.ejso.2021.04.010.
 Epub 2021 Apr 14.

The impact of breast cancer surgery on functional status in older women - A 
systematic review of the literature.

Harrison CA(1), Parks RM(1), Cheung KL(2).

Author information:
(1)Nottingham Breast Cancer Research Centre, University of Nottingham, UK.
(2)Nottingham Breast Cancer Research Centre, University of Nottingham, UK. 
Electronic address: kl.cheung@nottingham.ac.uk.

Primary endocrine therapy as treatment of breast cancer is only recommended in 
older women with limited life expectancy. However, many older women opt for 
endocrine therapy due to concerns regarding frailty and potential decline in 
function after surgery. A decline in functional status after surgery is 
documented in some cancer types, such as colorectal, however, the full impact of 
breast cancer surgery is less understood. A systematic review was performed to 
examine the evidence for impact of breast cancer surgery on functional status in 
older women. PubMed and Embase databases were searched. Studies were eligible if 
performed within the last 10 years; included patients over the age of 65 years 
undergoing breast cancer surgery; included stratification of results by age; 
measured functional status pre-operatively and at least six months following 
surgery. A total of 11 studies including 12 030 women were appraised. Two 
studies represented level-II and nine level-IV evidence. Overall, physical 
activity level was negatively impacted by breast cancer surgery and this was 
compounded by the extent of surgery. Evidence for impact of breast cancer 
surgery on quality of life, fatigue and cognition, was conflicting. The 
possibility of decline in functional status after breast cancer surgery should 
be discussed in all older women considering surgery. A structured exercise 
program may improve the negative effects of surgery on physical activity. 
