prospectively included. A prechemotherapy assessment that included 
sociodemographic variables, tumor/treatment variables, and geriatric assessment 
variables was performed. Association between these factors and early death was 
examined using multivariable logistic regression. Score points were assigned to 
each risk factor. External validation was performed on an independent cohort. 
Results: In the training cohort, the independent predictors of 6-month mortality 
were metastatic stage (OR 4.8, 95% CI [2.4-9.6]), ECOG-PS 2 (OR 2.3, 95% CI 
[1.1-5.2]), ADL ≤ 5 (OR 1.7, 95% CI [1.1-3.5]), serum albumin levels ≤ 3.5 g/dL 
(OR 3.4, 95% CI [1.7-6.6]), BMI < 23 kg/m2 (OR 2.5, 95% CI [1.3-4.9]), and 
hemoglobin levels < 11 g/dL (OR 2.4, 95% CI (1.2-4.7)). With these results, we 
built a prognostic score. The area under the ROC curve was 0.78 (95% CI, 0.73 to 
0.84), and in the validation set, it was 0.73 (95% CI: 0.67-0.79). Conclusions: 
This simple and highly accurate tool can help physicians making decisions in 
elderly patients with cancer who are planned to initiate chemotherapy treatment.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm10081615
PMCID: PMC8070509
PMID: 33920250

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


10. Molecules. 2021 Apr 11;26(8):2198. doi: 10.3390/molecules26082198.

In Vivo and In Vitro Assays Evaluating the Biological Activity of Taurine, 
Glucose and Energetic Beverages.

Mateo-Fernández M(1), Valenzuela-Gómez F(1), Font R(2), Del Río-Celestino M(2), 
Merinas-Amo T(1), Alonso-Moraga Á(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Córdoba, 14071 Córdoba, Spain.
(2)Agri-Food Laboratory, Avda. Menéndez Pidal, s/n, 14080 Córdoba, Spain.

Taurine is one of the main ingredients used in energy drinks which are highly 
consumed in adolescents for their sugary taste and stimulating effect. With 
energy drinks becoming a worldwide phenomenon, the biological effects of these 
beverages must be evaluated in order to fully comprehend the potential impact of 
these products on the health due to the fact nutrition is closely related to 
science since the population consumes food to prevent certain diseases. 
Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate the biological effects of 
taurine, glucose, classic Red Bull® and sugar-free Red Bull® in order to check 
the food safety and the nutraceutical potential of these compounds, 
characterising different endpoints: (i) Toxicology, antitoxicology, 
genotoxicology and life expectancy assays were performed in the Drosophila 
melanogaster model organism; (ii) The in vitro chemopreventive activity of 
testing compounds was determined by assessing their cytotoxicity, the 
proapoptotic DNA-damage capability to induce internucleosomal fragmentation, the 
strand breaks activity and the modulator role on the methylation status of 
genomic repetitive sequences of HL-60 promyelocytic cells. Whereas none tested 
compounds showed toxic or genotoxic effect, all tested compounds exerted 
antitoxic and antigenotoxic activity in Drosophila. Glucose, classic Red Bull® 
and sugar-free Red Bull® were cytotoxic in HL-60 cell line. Classic Red Bull® 
induced DNA internucleosomal fragmentation although none of them exhibited DNA 
damage on human leukaemia cells. In conclusion, the tested compounds are safe on 
Drosophila melanogaster and classic Red Bull® could overall possess 
nutraceutical potential in the in vivo and in vitro model used in this study. 
Besides, taurine could holistically be one of the bioactive compounds 
responsible for the biological activity of classic Red Bull®.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules26082198
PMCID: PMC8069289
PMID: 33920365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


11. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Apr 17;18(8):4270. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18084270.

Using Digital Platforms to Promote Blood Donation: Motivational and Preliminary 
Evidence from Latin America and Spain.

Torrent-Sellens J(1)(2), Salazar-Concha C(3), Ficapal-Cusí P(1)(2), Saigí-Rubió 
F(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Economics and Business, Universitat Oberta de Catalunya (UOC), 
08035 Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Interdisciplinary Research Group on ICTs (i2TIC), Universitat Oberta de 
Catalunya (UOC), 08035 Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Faculty of Economic and Administrative Sciences, Universidad Austral de Chile 
(UACh), Valdivia 5110566, Chile.
(4)Faculty of Health Sciences, Universitat Oberta de Catalunya (UOC), 08018 
Barcelona, Spain.

The lack of blood donors is a global problem that prevents the demand for blood 
prompted by an ageing population and increased life expectancy from being met. 
The aim of this study was to conduct an initial exploration of the reasons for 
using digital platforms in blood donation. Using a Theory of Planned Behaviour 
(TPB) framework, microdata for 389 participants from Latin American countries 
and Spain, and Partial Least Square-Structural Equation Modelling (PLS-SEM), the 
study obtained three main prediction paths. The first two started from feelings 
of trust in the digital community and a positive mood state associated with a 
modern lifestyle, and they were linked to attitudes and behavioural control in 
the explanation of the intention to donate and actual blood donation. The third 
path started from modern lifestyles, and was linked to the subjective norm in 
the prediction of intention and actual donation. These paths represent one of 
the very first attempts to predict intentions of donation and collaborative 
donation by taking a PLS-SEM approach. By determining the paths underpinning 
collaborative blood donors' motives, the results of this study provide strong 
support for the usefulness of the TPB model within the context of digital 
platform use and blood donation.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18084270
PMCID: PMC8073325
PMID: 33920606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


12. J Fungi (Basel). 2021 Apr 15;7(4):300. doi: 10.3390/jof7040300.

Calcium Affects Polyphosphate and Lipid Accumulation in Mucoromycota Fungi.

Dzurendova S(1), Zimmermann B(1), Kohler A(1), Reitzel K(2), Nielsen UG(3), 
Dupuy-Galet BX(1), Leivers S(4), Horn SJ(4), Shapaval V(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Science and Technology, Norwegian University of Life Sciences, 
Drøbakveien 31, 1433 Ås, Norway.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Southern Denmark, Campusvej 55, DK-5230 
Odense M, Denmark.
(3)Department of Physics, Chemistry and Pharmacy, University of Southern 
Denmark, Campusvej 55, DK-5230 Odense M, Denmark.
(4)Faculty of Chemistry, Biotechnology and Food Science, Norwegian University of 
Life Sciences, Christian Magnus Falsens vei 1, 1433 Ås, Norway.

Calcium controls important processes in fungal metabolism, such as hyphae 
growth, cell wall synthesis, and stress tolerance. Recently, it was reported 
that calcium affects polyphosphate and lipid accumulation in fungi. The purpose 
of this study was to assess the effect of calcium on the accumulation of lipids 
and polyphosphate for six oleaginous Mucoromycota fungi grown under different 
phosphorus/pH conditions. A Duetz microtiter plate system (Duetz MTPS) was used 
for the cultivation. The compositional profile of the microbial biomass was 
recorded using Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy, the high throughput 
screening extension (FTIR-HTS). Lipid content and fatty acid profiles were 
determined using gas chromatography (GC). Cellular phosphorus was determined 
using assay-based UV-Vis spectroscopy, and accumulated phosphates were 
characterized using solid-state 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. 
Glucose consumption was estimated by FTIR-attenuated total reflection 
(FTIR-ATR). Overall, the data indicated that calcium availability enhances 
polyphosphate accumulation in Mucoromycota fungi, while calcium deficiency 
increases lipid production, especially under acidic conditions (pH 2-3) caused 
by the phosphorus limitation. In addition, it was observed that under acidic 
conditions, calcium deficiency leads to increase in carotenoid production. It 
can be concluded that calcium availability can be used as an optimization 
parameter in fungal fermentation processes to enhance the production of lipids 
or polyphosphates.

DOI: 10.3390/jof7040300
PMCID: PMC8071181
PMID: 33920847

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


13. Sensors (Basel). 2021 Apr 15;21(8):2785. doi: 10.3390/s21082785.

Locomotion Mode Recognition Algorithm Based on Gaussian Mixture Model Using IMU 
Sensors.

Shin D(1), Lee S(1), Hwang S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechatronics Engineering, Hanyang University, 55 
Hanyangdaehak-ro, Sangnok-gu, Ansan-si 15588, Gyeonggi-do, Korea.

The number of elderly people has increased as life expectancy increases. As 
muscle strength decreases with aging, it is easy to feel tired while walking, 
which is an activity of daily living (ADL), or suffer a fall accident. To 
compensate the walking problems, the terrain environment must be considered, and 
in this study, we developed the locomotion mode recognition (LMR) algorithm 
based on the gaussian mixture model (GMM) using inertial measurement unit (IMU) 
sensors to classify the five terrains (level walking, stair ascent/descent, ramp 
ascent/descent). In order to meet the walking conditions of the elderly people, 
the walking speed index from 20 to 89 years old was used, and the beats per 
minute (BPM) method was adopted considering the speed range for each age groups. 
The experiment was conducted with the assumption that the healthy people walked 
according to the BPM rhythm, and to apply the algorithm to the exoskeleton robot 
later, a full/individual dependent model was used by selecting a data collection 
method. Regarding the full dependent model as the representative model, the 
accuracy of classifying the stair terrains and level walking/ramp terrains is 
BPM 90: 98.74%, 95.78%, BPM 110: 99.33%, 95.75%, and BPM 130: 98.39%, 87.54%, 
respectively. The consumption times were 14.5, 21.1, and 14 ms according to BPM 
90/110/130, respectively. LMR algorithm that satisfies the high classification 
accuracy according to walking speed has been developed. In the future, the LMR 
algorithm will be applied to the actual hip exoskeleton robot, and the gait 
phase estimation algorithm that estimates the user's gait intention is to be 
combined. Additionally, when a user wearing a hip exoskeleton robot walks, we 
will check whether the combined algorithm properly supports the muscle strength.

DOI: 10.3390/s21082785
PMCID: PMC8071300
PMID: 33920969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


14. Foods. 2021 Apr 19;10(4):891. doi: 10.3390/foods10040891.

Pseudomonas spp.: Are Food Grade Organic Acids Efficient against These Spoilage 
Microorganisms in Fresh Cheeses?

Tirloni E(1), Bernardi C(1), Stella S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health, Animal Science and Food Safety, University of Milan, 
Via dell' Università 6, 26900 Lodi, Italy.

Psychrotolerant Pseudomonas spp. are among the most common spoilage agents in 
fresh, soft and semi-soft cheeses; therefore, hurdles inhibiting their growth 
are in strong demand by producers. This study aimed to establish Minimal 
Inhibiting Concentrations (MICs) of lactic and acetic acid towards P. 
fluorescens and to evaluate the efficacy of a cheese surface treatment with 
these two organic acids. MICs were determined in Brain Heart Infusion broth at 
30 °C: the inhibition was achieved at a concentration of 49.96 mM and 44.40 mM 
of acetic and lactic acid, respectively. Two series of inhibition tests were 
performed on fresh "Primo sale" cheese, inoculated with P. brenneri MGM3, then 
dipped into different acid solutions (acetic acid: 49.96, 99.92 and 149.88 mM; 
lactic acid: 44.40, 88.80 and 133.20 mM) and stored at 6 °C. P. brenneri MGM3 
were enumerated, including a control series. A significantly lower growth was 
revealed at the highest concentrations tested, both for acetic (p < 0.01) and 
lactic acid (p < 0.05) if compared to control samples. A conditioning of "Primo 
sale" surface with organic acid solutions could be a useful hurdle for 
Pseudomonas inhibition and shelf-life extension; it should be applied in 
combination with other mild interventions to fight spoilage and maintain the 
original product characteristics.

DOI: 10.3390/foods10040891
PMCID: PMC8074068
PMID: 33921594

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


15. J Clin Med. 2021 Apr 22;10(9):1820. doi: 10.3390/jcm10091820.

Meningioma Surgery in Patients ≥70 Years of Age: Clinical Outcome and Validation 
of the SKALE Score.

Monden D(1), Raimann FJ(2), Neef V(2), Dubinski D(1), Gessler F(1), Keil F(3), 
Forster MT(1), Ronellenfitsch MW(4), Harter PN(5)(6)(7)(8), Freiman TM(1), 
Hattingen E(3), Seifert V(1), Senft C(1), Baumgarten P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University Hospital Frankfurt, Goethe University, 
60528 Frankfurt, Germany.
(2)Department of Anaesthesiology, Intensive Care Medicine and Pain Therapy, 
University Hospital Frankfurt, Goethe University, 60528 Frankfurt, Germany.
(3)Institute of Neuroradiology, University Hospital Frankfurt, Goethe 
University, 60528 Frankfurt, Germany.
(4)Department of Neuro-Oncology, University Hospital Frankfurt, Goethe 
University, 60528 Frankfurt, Germany.
(5)Neurological Institute (Edinger-Institute), University Hospital Frankfurt, 
Goethe University, 60528 Frankfurt, Germany.
(6)German Cancer Consortium (DKTK) partner site, 60590 Frankfurt am Main, 
Germany.
(7)German Cancer research Center (DKFZ), 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(8)Frankfurt Cancer Institute (FCI), University Hospital Frankfurt, Goethe 
University, 60528 Frankfurt, Germany.

Along with increasing average life expectancy, the number of elderly meningioma 
patients has grown proportionally. Our aim was to evaluate whether these 
specific patients benefit from surgery and to investigate a previously published 
score for decision-making in meningioma patients (SKALE). Of 421 patients who 
underwent primary intracranial meningioma resection between 2009 and 2015, 71 
patients were ≥70 years of age. We compared clinical data including World Health 
Organization (WHO) grade, MIB-1 proliferation index, Karnofsky Performance 
Status Scale (KPS), progression free survival (PFS) and mortality rate between 
elderly and all other meningioma patients. Preoperative SKALE scores (Sex, KPS, 
ASA score, location and edema) were determined for elderly patients. SKALE ≥8 
was set for dichotomization to determine any association with outcome 
parameters. In 71 elderly patients (male/female 37/34) all data were available. 
Postoperative KPS was significantly lower in elderly patients (p < 0.0001). 
Pulmonary complications including pneumonia (10% vs. 3.2%; p = 0.0202) and 
pulmonary embolism (12.7% vs. 6%; p = 0.0209) occurred more frequently in our 
elderly cohort. Analyses of the Kaplan Meier curves revealed differences in 
three-month (5.6% vs. 0.3%; p = 0.0033), six-month (7% vs. 0.3%; p = 0.0006) and 
one-year mortality (8.5% vs. 0.3%; p < 0.0001) for elderly patients. Statistical 
analysis showed significant survival benefit in terms of one-year mortality for 
elderly patients with SKALE scores ≥8 (5.1 vs. 25%; p = 0.0479). According to 
our data, elderly meningioma patients face higher postoperative morbidity and 
mortality than younger patients. However, resection is reasonable for selected 
patients, particularly when reaching a SKALE score ≥ 8.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm10091820
PMCID: PMC8122404
PMID: 33922009

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


16. Materials (Basel). 2021 Apr 22;14(9):2117. doi: 10.3390/ma14092117.

Approach of Pavement Surface Layer Degradation Caused by Tire Contact Using 
Semi-Analytical Model.

Manyo EY(1), Picoux B(1), Reynaud P(1), Tautou R(1), Nelias D(2), Allou F(1), 
Petit C(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire GC2D, EA 3178, University of Limoges, Bd J. Derche, F-19300 
Egletons, France.
(2)INSA Lyon, University of Lyon, LAMCOS, CNRS UMR5259, Avenue J. Capelle, 
F-69100 Villeurbanne, France.

New methods of degradations on the pavement's surface, such as top-down cracking 
and delamination, caused by the repeated passage of heavy vehicles led to 
questions about the impact of the contact between the tire and the pavement. In 
fact, to increase the service life of the structures, future road design methods 
must have a precise knowledge of the consequences of the contact parameters on 
the state of stress and deformation in the pavement. In this paper, tractive 
rolling contact under the effect of friction is modeled by Kalker's theory using 
a semi-analytical method (SAM). A tire profile is performed thanks to a 
digitization by fringes or a photogrammetry technique. The effect of rolling on 
the main surface extension deformations is then highlighted to study top 
cracking. At the end of the SAM calculation, contact areas are closed to 200 
μdef, exceeding the allowable micro-deformation limit for the initiation of 
cracking. In addition, results on the main strain directions also give 
information on the direction of cracking (initiation of longitudinal or 
transverse cracks). The cracking then becomes evident, leading to a reduced 
service life.

DOI: 10.3390/ma14092117
PMCID: PMC8122264
PMID: 33922051

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


17. Foods. 2021 Apr 22;10(5):923. doi: 10.3390/foods10050923.

Gluten-Free Breadsticks Fortified with Phenolic-Rich Extracts from Olive Leaves 
and Olive Mill Wastewater.

Conte P(1), Pulina S(1), Del Caro A(1), Fadda C(1), Urgeghe PP(1), De Bruno 
A(2), Difonzo G(3), Caponio F(3), Romeo R(2), Piga A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Sciences, Università degli Studi di Sassari, Viale 
Italia 39/A, 07100 Sassari, Italy.
(2)Department of Agraria, University Mediterranea of Reggio Calabria, 89124 
Reggio Calabria, Italy.
(3)Department of Soil Plant and Food Sciences, University of Bari Aldo Moro, Via 
Amendola 165/A, 70126 Bari, Italy.

Nowadays, food processing by-products, which have long raised serious 
environmental concerns, are recognized to be a cheap source of valuable 
compounds. In the present study, incorporation of phenolic-rich extracts (500 
and 1000 mg kg-1) from olive leaves (OL) and olive mill wastewater (OMW) into 
conventional gluten-free formulations has been exploited as a potential strategy 
for developing nutritious and healthy breadsticks with extended shelf-life. To 
this end, moisture, water activity (aw), visual and textural properties, the 
composition of biologically active compounds (soluble, insoluble, and 
bio-accessible polyphenols), antioxidant activity, oxidation stability, and 
consumer preference of the resulting breadsticks were investigated. Fortified 
breadsticks had higher moisture and aw, lower hardness, and similar color in 
comparison to the control, especially in the case of OL extract supplementation. 
All enriched formulations significantly affected the phenolic composition, as 
evidenced by the decrease in insoluble/soluble polyphenols ratio (from 7 in the 
control up to 3.1 and 4.5 in OL and OMW, respectively), and a concomitant 
increase in polyphenol bio-accessibility (OL: 14.5-23% and OMW: 10.4-15% rise) 
and antioxidant activity (OL: 20-36% and OMW: 11-16% rise). Moreover, a 
significant shelf-life extension was observed in all fortified breadsticks 
(especially in case of OMW supplementation). Sensory evaluation evidenced that 
61% of the assessors showed a marked, but not significant, tendency to consider 
the sample supplemented with high levels of OL as a more palatable choice.

DOI: 10.3390/foods10050923
PMCID: PMC8146876
PMID: 33922194

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


18. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Apr 23;18(9):4491. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18094491.

A Non-Linear Biostatistical Graphical Modeling of Preventive Actions and 
Healthcare Factors in Controlling COVID-19 Pandemic.

Abdulla F(1)(2), Nain Z(3), Karimuzzaman M(4), Hossain MM(4)(5), Rahman A(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Faculty of Sciences, Islamic University, Kushtia 
7003, Bangladesh.
(2)Research, Training and Management (RTM) International, Mirpur, Dhaka 1216, 
Bangladesh.
(3)Department of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, Faculty of Biological 
Sciences, Islamic University, Kushtia 7003, Bangladesh.
(4)Department of Statistics, Faculty of Mathematical and Physical Sciences, 
Jahangirnagar University, Savar, Dhaka 1342, Bangladesh.
(5)School of Mathematics, Statistics & Physics, Newcastle University, Newcastle 
upon Tyne NE1 7RU, UK.
(6)School of Computing and Mathematics, Charles Sturt University, Wagga Wagga, 
NSW 2650, Australia.

BACKGROUND: With the insurgence of the COVID-19 pandemic, many people died in 
the past several months, and the situation is ongoing with increasing health, 
social, and economic panic and vulnerability. As most of the countries relying 
on different preventive actions to control the outcomes of COVID-19, it is 
necessary to boost the knowledge about the effectiveness of such actions so that 
the policymakers take their country-based appropriate actions. This study 
generates evidence of taking the most impactful actions to combat COVID-19.
OBJECTIVE: In order to generate community-based scientific evidence, this study 
analyzed the outcome of COVID-19 in response to different control measures, 
healthcare facilities, life expectancy, and prevalent diseases.
METHODS: It used more than a hundred countries' data collected from different 
databases. We performed a comparative graphical analysis with non-linear 
correlation estimation using R.
RESULTS: The reduction of COVID-19 cases is strongly correlated with the 
earliness of preventive initiation. The apathy of taking nationwide immediate 
precaution measures has been identified as one of the critical reasons to make 
the circumstances worse. There is significant non-linear relationship between 
COVID-19 case fatality and number of physicians (NCC = 0.22; p-value ≤ 0.001), 
nurses and midwives (NCC = 0.17; p-value ≤ 0.001), hospital beds (NCC = 0.20; 
p-value ≤ 0.001), life expectancy of both sexes (NCC = 0.22; p-value ≤ 0.001), 
life expectancy of female (NCC = 0.27; p-value ≤ 0.001), and life expectancy of 
male (NCC = 0.19; p-value ≤ 0.001). COVID-19 deaths were found to be reduced 
with increased medical personnel and hospital beds. Interestingly, no 
association between the comorbidities and severity of COVID-19 was found 
excluding asthma, cancer, Alzheimer's, and smoking.
CONCLUSIONS: Enhancing healthcare facilities and early imposing the control 
measures could be valuable to prevent the COVID-19 pandemic. No association 
between COVID-19 and other comorbidities warranted further investigation at the 
pathobiological level.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18094491
PMCID: PMC8122857
PMID: 33922634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


19. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Apr 25;18(9):4545. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18094545.

Recurrent Intraocular Lens Dislocation in a Patient with Familial Ectopia 
Lentis.

Wilczyński TK(1), Niewiem A(1)(2), Leszczyński R(1), Michalska-Małecka K(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)University Clinical Center, University Hospital Medical University of 
Silesia, 40-514 Katowice, Poland.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine in Katowice, Medical 
University of Silesia, 40-514 Katowice, Poland.

A 36-year-old patient presented to the hospital with recurrent dislocation of 
the intraocular lens (IOL). The patient with the diagnosis of familial ectopia 
lentis was first operated on for crystalline lens subluxation in the left eye in 
2007 and in the right eye in 2009. In both eyes, lens extraction with anterior 
vitrectomy and transscleral fixation of a rigid IOL was performed. In 2011, the 
IOL in the right eye luxated into the vitreous cavity due to ocular trauma. The 
patient underwent a pars plana vitrectomy with the IOL resuturation to the 
sclera. Seven years later, a spontaneous vision loss in the right eye was caused 
by a retinal detachment. The pars plana vitrectomy with silicone oil tamponade 
and a consequential oil removal three months later were performed in 2018. The 
follow-up examination revealed recurrent IOL dislocation in the same eye. Due to 
a history of previous suture-related complications a decision was made to remove 
the subluxated rigid polymethyl-methacrylate (PMMA) IOL and fixate to sclera a 
sutureless SOLEKO FIL SSF Carlevale lens. The purpose of this report is to 
present a single case of a 36-year-old patient who was presented to the hospital 
with recurrent dislocation of the intraocular lens. In a three-month follow-up 
period, a good anatomical and functional outcome was finally obtained with 
transscleral sutureless intraocular lens. This lens is an option worth 
considering especially in a young patient with a long life expectancy and 
physically active.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18094545
PMCID: PMC8123295
PMID: 33922930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest.


20. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Apr 16;18(8):4230. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18084230.

The Burden of Dengue in Children by Calculating Spatial Temperature: A 
Methodological Approach Using Remote Sensing Techniques.

Mendoza-Cano O(1), Rincón-Avalos P(1), Watson V(2), Khouakhi A(3), Cruz JL(1), 
Ruiz-Montero AP(1), Nava-Garibaldi CM(4), Lopez-Rojas M(1), Murillo-Zamora E(5).

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Ingeniería Civil, Universidad de Colima, km. 9 Carretera 
Colima-Coquimatlán, Col. Jardines del Llano, Coquimatlán 28400, Colima, Mexico.
(2)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB25 2ZD, 
UK.
(3)School of Water, Energy and Environment, Centre for Environmental and 
Agricultural Informatics, Cranfield University, Cranfield MK43 0AL, UK.
(4)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, 1415 Engineering Dr, Madison, WI 53706, USA.
(5)Departamento de Epidemiología, Unidad de Medicina Familiar No. 19, Instituto 
Mexicano del Seguro Social, Av. Javier Mina 301, Col. Centro, Colima 28000, 
Colima, Mexico.

BACKGROUND: Dengue fever is one of the most important arboviral diseases. 
Surface temperature versus dengue burden in tropical environments can provide 
valuable information that can be adapted in future measurements to improve 
health policies.
METHODS: A methodological approach using Daymet-V3 provided estimates of daily 
weather parameters. A Python code developed by us extracted the median 
temperature from the urban regions of Colima State (207.3 km2) in Mexico. 
JointPoint regression models computed the mean temperature-adjusted average 
annual percentage of change (AAPC) in disability-adjusted life years (DALY) 
rates (per 100,000) due to dengue in Colima State among school-aged (5-14 years 
old) children.
RESULTS: Primary outcomes were average temperature in urban areas and cumulative 
dengue burden in DALYs in the school-aged population. A model from 1990 to 2017 
medium surface temperature with DALY rates was performed. The increase in DALYs 
rate was 64% (95% CI, 44-87%), and it seemed to depend on the 2000-2009 
estimates (AAPC = 185%, 95% CI 18-588).
CONCLUSION: From our knowledge, this is the first study to evaluate surface 
temperature and to model it through an extensive period with health economics 
calculations in a specific subset of the Latin-American endemic population for 
dengue epidemics.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18084230
PMCID: PMC8073896
PMID: 33923602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


21. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Apr 20;22(8):4279. doi: 10.3390/ijms22084279.

Ferulic Acid Supplementation Increases Lifespan and Stress Resistance via 
Insulin/IGF-1 Signaling Pathway in C. elegans.

Li H(1)(2), Yu X(2), Meng F(2), Zhao Z(2), Guan S(1)(2)(3), Wang L(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory for Molecular Enzymology and Engineering, The Ministry of 
Education, Jilin University, Changchun 130012, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Jilin University, Changchun 130012, China.
(3)Engineering Laboratory for AIDS Vaccine, Jilin University, Changchun 130012, 
China.

Ferulic acid (FA) is a naturally-occurring well-known potent antioxidant and 
free radical scavenger. FA supplementation is an effective strategy to delay 
aging, but the underlying mechanism remains unknown. In the present study, we 
examined the effects of FA on lifespan extension and its mechanism of FA in 
Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans). Results suggested that FA increased the 
lifespan of C. elegans, rather than altering the growth of E. coli OP50. 
Meanwhile, FA promoted the healthspan of C. elegans by improving locomotion and 
reducing fat accumulation and polyQ aggregation. FA increased the resistance to 
heat and oxidative stress through reducing ROS. The upregulating of the 
expression of the hlh-30, skn-1, and hsf-1 were involved in the FA-mediated 
lifespan extension. Furthermore, FA treatment had no impact on the lifespan of 
daf-2, hlh-30, skn-1, and hsf-1 mutants, confirming that insulin/IGF-1 signaling 
pathway and multiple longevity mechanisms were associated with the longevity 
mechanism of FA. We further found that mitochondrial signaling pathway was 
modulation involved in FA-mediated lifespan extension. With the results from 
RNA-seq results and mutants lifespan assay. These findings contribute to our 
knowledge of the lifespan extension and underlying mechanism of action of FA in 
C. elegans.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22084279
PMCID: PMC8074393
PMID: 33924155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


22. Viruses. 2021 Apr 28;13(5):775. doi: 10.3390/v13050775.

Global Discrepancies between Numbers of Available SARS-CoV-2 Genomes and Human 
Development Indexes at Country Scales.

Colson P(1)(2), Raoult D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)IHU Méditerranée Infection, 19-21 Boulevard Jean Moulin, 13005 Marseille, 
France.
(2)Aix-Marseille University, Institut de Recherche pour le Développement (IRD), 
Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille (AP-HM), MEPHI, 27 Boulevard Jean 
Moulin, 13005 Marseille, France.

It has now been over a year since SARS-CoV-2 first emerged in China, in December 
2019, and it has spread rapidly around the world. Some variants are currently 
considered of great concern. We aimed to analyze the numbers of SARS-CoV-2 
genome sequences obtained in different countries worldwide until January 2021. 
On 28 January 2021, we downloaded the deposited genome sequence origin from the 
GISAID database, and from the "Our world in data" website we downloaded numbers 
of SARS-CoV-2-diagnosed cases, numbers of SARS-CoV-2-associated deaths, 
population size, life expectancy, gross domestic product (GDP) per capita, and 
human development index per country. Files were merged and data were analyzed 
using Microsoft Excel software. A total of 450,968 SARS-CoV-2 genomes 
originating from 135 countries on the 5 continents were available. When 
considering the 19 countries for which the number of genomes per 100 deaths was 
>100, six were in Europe, while eight were in Asia, three were in Oceania and 
two were in Africa. Six (30%) of these countries are beyond rank 75, regarding 
the human development index and four (20%) are beyond rank 80 regarding GDP per 
capita. Moreover, the comparisons of the number of genomes sequenced per 100 
deaths to the human development index by country show that some Western European 
countries have released similar or lower numbers of genomes than many African or 
Asian countries with a lower human development index. Previous data highlight 
great discrepancies between the numbers of available SARS-CoV-2 genomes per 100 
cases and deaths and the ranking of countries regarding wealth and development.

DOI: 10.3390/v13050775
PMCID: PMC8145975
PMID: 33924778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


23. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Apr 28;18(9):4682. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18094682.

Invasive Weed Asystasia gangetica as a Potential Biomonitor and a 
Phytoremediator of Potentially Toxic Metals: A Case Study in Peninsular 
Malaysia.

Yap CK(1), Chew W(1), Al-Mutairi KA(2), Al-Shami SA(3), Nulit R(1), Ibrahim 
MH(1), Wong KW(1), Bakhtiari AR(4), Sharifinia M(5), Cheng WH(6), Okamura H(7), 
Ismail MS(8), Saleem M(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Universiti Putra Malaysia, UPM, 
Serdang 43400, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, University of Tabuk, Tabuk 741, 
Saudi Arabia.
(3)Indian River Research and Education Center, IFAS, University of Florida, Fort 
Pierce, FL 34945, USA.
(4)Department of Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Natural Resources and Marine 
Sciences, Tarbiat Modares University, Noor 46417-76489, Iran.
(5)Shrimp Research Center, Iranian Fisheries Science Research Institute, 
Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Bushehr 
75169-89177, Iran.
(6)Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, Inti International University, Persiaran 
Perdana BBN, Nilai 71800, Malaysia.
(7)Graduate School of Maritime Sciences, Faculty of Maritime Sciences, Kobe 
University, Kobe 658-0022, Japan.
(8)Fisheries Research Institute, Pulau Pinang 11960, Malaysia.
(9)Department of Chemistry, Government Post Graduate College Mirpur, Affiliated 
Mirpur University of Science and Technology, Mirpur 10250, Pakistan.

The invasive weed Asystasia gangetica was investigated for its potential as a 
biomonitor and as a phytoremediator of potentially toxic metals (PTMs) (Cd, Cu, 
Ni, Pb, and Zn) in Peninsular Malaysia owing to its ecological resistance 
towards unfavourable environments. The biomonitoring potential of PTMs was 
determined based on the correlation analysis of the metals in the different 
parts of the plant (leaves, stems, and roots) and its habitat topsoils. In the 
roots, the concentrations (mg/kg dry weight) of Cd, Cu, Ni, Pb, and Zn ranged 
from 0.03 to 2.18, 9.22 to 139, 0.63 to 5.47, 2.43 to 10.5, and 50.7 to 300, 
respectively. In the leaves, the concentrations (mg/kg dry weight) of Cd, Cu, 
Ni, Pb, and Zn ranged from 0.03 to 1.16, 7.94 to 20.2, 0.03 to 6.13, 2.10 to 
21.8, and 18.8 to 160, respectively. In the stems, the concentrations (mg/kg dry 
weight) of Cd, Cu, Ni, Pb, and Zn ranged from 0.03 to 1.25, 5.57 to 11.8, 0.23 
to 3.69, 0.01 to 7.79, and 26.4 to 246, respectively. On the other hand, the 
phytoremediation potential of the five metals was estimated based on the 
bioconcentration factor (BCF) and the translocation factor (TF) values. 
Correlation analysis revealed that the roots and stems could be used as 
biomonitors of Cu, the stems as biomonitors of Ni, the roots and leaves as 
biomonitors of Pb, and all three parts of the plant as biomonitors of Zn. 
According to the BCF values, in the topsoil, the "easily, freely, leachable, or 
exchangeable" geochemical fractions of the five metals could be more easily 
transferred to the roots, leaves, and stems when compared with total 
concentrations. Based on the TF values of Cd, Ni, and Pb, the metal transfer to 
the stems (or leaves) from the roots was efficient (>1.0) at most sampling 
sites. The results of BCF and TF showed that A. gangetica was a good 
phytoextractor for Cd and Ni, and a good phytostabilizer for Cu, Pb, and Zn. 
Therefore, A. gangetica is a good candidate as a biomonitor and a 
phytoremediator of Ni, Pb, and Zn for sustainable contaminant remediation 
subject to suitable field management strategies.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18094682
PMCID: PMC8124176
PMID: 33924835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


24. Life (Basel). 2021 Apr 28;11(5):404. doi: 10.3390/life11050404.

PD-L1 Expression in Muscle Invasive Urothelial Carcinomas as Assessed via 
Immunohistochemistry: Correlations with Specific Clinical and Pathological 
Features, with Emphasis on Prognosis after Radical Cystectomy.

Nechifor-Boilă IA(1)(2), Loghin A(3)(4), Nechifor-Boilă A(3)(4), 
Decaussin-Petrucci M(5), Voidăzan S(6), Chibelean BC(2), Martha O(2), Borda 
A(3)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Embryology, George Emil Palade University of 
Medicine, Pharmacy, Science and Technology of Târgu-Mureș, 540142 Târgu-Mures, 
Romania.
(2)Department of Urology, Mureș County Hospital, 540142 Târgu-Mures, Romania.
(3)Department of Histology, George Emil Palade University of Medicine, Pharmacy, 
Science and Technology of Târgu-Mureș, 540142 Târgu-Mures, Romania.
(4)Department of Pathology, Mureș County Hospital, 540011 Târgu-Mureș, Romania.
(5)Centre Hospitalier Lyon Sud, Department of Pathology, Universite Claude 
Bernard Lyon 1, 69310 Pierre-Bénite, France.
(6)Department of Epidemiology, George Emil Palade University of Medicine, 
Pharmacy, Science and Technology of Târgu-Mureș, 540142 Târgu-Mures, Romania.
(7)Department of Pathology, Emergency Mureș County Hospital, 540136 Târgu Mureș, 
Romania.

In the present study, we analyzed Programmed Death Ligand-1 (PD-L1) expression 
in radical cystectomy (RC) specimens from patients with muscle-invasive 
urothelial carcinoma (UC), in order to assess any correlations with specific 
clinicopathological features and its potential prognostic value. A 
multi-institutional study was performed within the departments of urology and 
pathology at the Mureș County Hospital, Romania, and Centre Hospitalier Lyon 
Sud, France. Sixty-nine patients with MIBC were included, for whom tumor 
histology (conventional versus histological variant/differentiation), tumor 
extension (T), lymph node involvement (N), and distant metastases (M) were 
recorded. PD-L1 immunostaining was performed using the 22C3 clone and was 
interpreted using the combined positive score (CPS) as recommended (Dako 
Agilent, Santa Clara, CA, USA). Positive PD-L1 immunostaining was more prevalent 
among UCs with squamous differentiation compared to conventional UCs and trended 
towards an improved OS (p = 0.366). We found the T stage to be a risk factor for 
poor survival in PD-L1-positive patients (HR 2.9, p = 0.021), along with the N 
stage in PD-L1-negative patients (HR 1.98, p = 0.007). No other 
clinicopathological factor was found to be significantly associated with PD-L1 
positivity. Thus, we confirm the need for PD-L1 immunostaining prior to 
initiating immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy for a more accurate assessment of 
the patients' chances of responding to treatment.

DOI: 10.3390/life11050404
PMCID: PMC8146852
PMID: 33925149

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


25. Medicina (Kaunas). 2021 Apr 28;57(5):429. doi: 10.3390/medicina57050429.

Treatment of Patellofemoral Pain Syndrome with Dielectric Radiofrequency 
Diathermy: A Preliminary Single-Group Study with Six-Month Follow-Up.

Albornoz-Cabello M(1), Barrios-Quinta CJ(2), Escobio-Prieto I(1), 
Sobrino-Sánchez R(3), Ibáñez-Vera AJ(4), Espejo-Antúnez L(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Nursing, Physiotherapy and Podiatry, 
University of Sevilla, 41009 Sevilla, Spain.
(2)Physiotherapy Unit, Andalusian Health Service, 41005 Sevilla, Spain.
(3)Department of Physiotherapy, Universitary School of Osuna, 41640 Sevilla, 
Spain.
(4)Health Sciences Department, University of Jaen, 23071 Jaen, Spain.
(5)Department of Medical-Surgical Therapy, Medicine Faculty, University of 
Extremadura, 06071 Badajoz, Spain.

Background and Objectives: Notwithstanding patellofemoral pain syndrome (PFPS) 
being one of the most common causes of pain in the front of the knee in 
outpatients, few studies have shown the effects of radiofrequency on knee pain 
and function in this population. The aim of the present study was to determine 
whether outpatients diagnosed with PFPS obtained improvement in pain and 
function after treatment by dynamic application of monopolar dielectric 
diathermy by emission of radiofrequency (MDR). Materials and Methods: An 
experimental study was conducted with 27 subjects with PFPS. Subjects were 
treated with 10 sessions of MDR in dynamic application. The visual analogue 
scale (VAS), the Kujala scale, the DN4 questionnaire, the lower extremity 
function scale (LEFS), the range of movement (ROM) in knee flexion and extension 
and the daily drug intake were measured pre- and post-intervention and at the 
time of the follow-up (six months). Results: Statistically significant 
differences were found in pain perception (VAS: F1,26 = 92.43, p < 0.000, ŋ2 = 
0.78 and DN4: F1.26 = 124.15, p < 0.000, ŋ2 = 0.82), as well as improvements in 
functionality (LEFS: F1.26 = 72.42, p < 0.000, ŋ2 = 0.74 and Kujala: F1.26 = 
40.37, p < 0.000, ŋ2 = 0.61]) and in ROM (Flexion: F1.26 = 63.15, p < 0.000, ŋ2 
= 0.71). No statistically significant changes in drug intake were found. 
Conclusions: The present study shows that the dynamic application of MDR seems 
effective in reducing pain and increasing functionality and knee flexion in 
patients with PFPS, after a follow-up of six months.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina57050429
PMCID: PMC8145052
PMID: 33925211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
authors alone are responsible for the content and writing of the article.


26. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Apr 28;18(9):4723. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18094723.

Inequalities in the Global Burden of Chronic Kidney Disease Due to Type 2 
Diabetes Mellitus: An Analysis of Trends from 1990 to 2019.

Kovács N(1), Nagy A(2), Dombrádi V(3), Bíró K(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Debrecen, 4028 Debrecen, Hungary.
(2)Faculty of Public Health, University of Debrecen, 4028 Debrecen, Hungary.
(3)Health Services Management Training Centre, Faculty of Health and Public 
Administration, Semmelweis University, 1125 Budapest, Hungary.
(4)Department of Health Systems Management and Quality Management for Health 
Care, Faculty of Public Health, University of Debrecen, 4032 Debrecen, Hungary.

The prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and the burden of 
complications are increasing worldwide. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is one 
serious complication. Our aim was to investigate the trends and inequalities of 
the burden of CKD due to T2DM between 1990 and 2019. Data were obtained from the 
Global Health Data Exchange database. Age-standardized incidence, mortality, and 
DALYs rates of CKD were used to estimate the disease burden across the Human 
Development Index (HDI). Joinpoint regression was performed to assess changes in 
trend, and the Gini coefficient was used to assess health inequality. A higher 
incidence was observed in more developed countries (p < 0.001), while higher 
mortality and DALYs rates were experienced in low and middle HDI countries in 
2019 (p < 0.001). The trend of incidence has increased since 1990 (AAPC: 
0.9-1.5%), while slight decrease was observed in low HDI countries in mortality 
(APC: -0.1%) and DALYs (APC: -0.2%). The Gini coefficients of CKD incidence 
decreased from 0.25 in 2006 to 0.23 in 2019. The socioeconomic development was 
associated with disease burden. Our findings indicate that awareness of 
complications should be improved in countries with high incidence, and 
cost-effective preventive, diagnostic, and therapeutic tools are necessary to 
implement in less developed regions.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18094723
PMCID: PMC8124442
PMID: 33925259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


27. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Apr 27;18(9):4636. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18094636.

Disability-Free Life Expectancy among People Over 60 Years Old by Sex, Urban and 
Rural Areas in Jiangxi Province, China.

Wang S(1), Hu S(1), Wang P(2)(3), Wu Y(1), Liu Z(1), Zheng H(1).

Author information:
(1)Jiangxi Province Key Laboratory of Preventive Medicine, School of Public 
Health, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330006, China.
(2)Department of Statistics, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY 40536, USA.
(3)Department of Statistics, Miami University, Oxford, OH 45056, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate and compare age trends and the disability-free life 
expectancy (DFLE) of the population over 60 years old in 2018 in Jiangxi 
Province, China, by sex and urban-rural areas.
METHODS: The model life table was employed to estimate the age-specific 
mortality rate by sex and urban-rural areas, based on the Summary of Health 
Statistics of Jiangxi Province in 2018 and the Sixth National Health Service 
survey of Jiangxi Province. DFLE and its ratio to life expectancy (LE) were 
obtained by the Sullivan method.
RESULTS: In 2018, the DFLE among people over 60 is 17.157 years for men and is 
19.055 years for women, accounting for 89.7% and 86.5% of their LE respectively. 
The DFLE/LE of men is higher than that of women at all ages. LE and DFLE are 
higher for the population in urban areas than in rural areas. For women, DFLE/LE 
is higher in urban areas than in rural areas (except at ages 75 and 80). Urban 
men have a higher DFLE/LE than rural men (except at age 85). The difference in 
DFLE between men and women over 60 years is 1.898 years, of which 2.260 years 
are attributable to the mortality rate, and 0.362 years are due to the 
disability-free prevalence. In addition, the difference in DFLE between 
urban-rural elderly over 60 years old is mostly attributed to the mortality rate 
by gender (male: 0.902/1.637; female: 0.893/1.454), but the impact of the 
disability-free rate cannot be ignored either (male: 0.735/1.637; female: 
0.561/1.454).
CONCLUSIONS: The increase in DFLE is accompanied by the increase in LE, but with 
increased age, DFLE/LE gradually decreases. With advancing age, the effect of 
disability on elderly people becomes more severe. The government administration 
must implement some preventive actions to improve health awareness and the life 
quality of the elderly. Rural elderly; rural women in particular, need to be 
paid more attention and acquire more health care.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18094636
PMCID: PMC8123896
PMID: 33925511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


28. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Apr 27;22(9):4605. doi: 10.3390/ijms22094605.

Bioinformatic Prediction of an tRNA(Sec) Gene Nested inside an Elongation Factor 
SelB Gene in Alphaproteobacteria.

Mukai T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, College of Science, Rikkyo University, 3-34-1 
Nishi-Ikebukuro, Toshima-ku, Tokyo 171-8501, Japan.

In bacteria, selenocysteine (Sec) is incorporated into proteins via the recoding 
of a particular codon, the UGA stop codon in most cases. Sec-tRNASec is 
delivered to the ribosome by the Sec-dedicated elongation factor SelB that also 
recognizes a Sec-insertion sequence element following the codon on the mRNA. 
Since the excess of SelB may lead to sequestration of Sec-tRNASec under selenium 
deficiency or oxidative stress, the expression levels of SelB and tRNASec should 
be regulated. In this bioinformatic study, I analyzed the Rhizobiales SelB 
species because they were annotated to have a non-canonical C-terminal 
extension. I found that the open reading frame (ORF) of diverse 
Alphaproteobacteria selB genes includes an entire tRNASec sequence (selC) and 
overlaps with the start codon of the downstream ORF. A remnant tRNASec sequence 
was found in the Sinorhizobium melilotiselB genes whose products have a shorter 
C-terminal extension. Similar overlapping traits were found in 
Gammaproteobacteria and Nitrospirae. I hypothesized that once the tRNASec moiety 
is folded and processed, the expression of the full-length SelB may be 
repressed. This is the first report on a nested tRNA gene inside a protein ORF 
in bacteria.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22094605
PMCID: PMC8124441
PMID: 33925673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


29. J Nanobiotechnology. 2021 Apr 29;19(1):122. doi: 10.1186/s12951-021-00864-x.

Nanomedicine-based technologies and novel biomarkers for the diagnosis and 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease: from current to future challenges.

Cano A(1)(2)(3)(4), Turowski P(5), Ettcheto M(6)(7), Duskey JT(8)(9), Tosi G(8), 
Sánchez-López E(6)(10)(11), García ML(6)(10)(11), Camins A(6)(7), Souto 
EB(12)(13), Ruiz A(14)(6), Marquié M(#)(14)(6), Boada M(#)(14)(6).

Author information:
(1)Research Center and Memory Clinic, Fundació ACE. Institut Català de 
Neurociències Aplicades, International University of Catalunya (UIC), C/Marquès 
de Sentmenat, 57, 08029, Barcelona, Spain. acano@fundacioace.org.
(2)Biomedical Research Networking Centre in Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain. acano@fundacioace.org.
(3)Institute of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (IN2UB), Barcelona, Spain. 
acano@fundacioace.org.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Pharmaceutical Technology and Physical Chemistry, 
Faculty of Pharmacy and Food Sciences, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain. acano@fundacioace.org.
(5)UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, University College of London, London, UK.
(6)Biomedical Research Networking Centre in Neurodegenerative Diseases 
(CIBERNED), Madrid, Spain.
(7)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and Therapeutic Chemistry, Faculty of 
Pharmacy and Food Sciences, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(8)Nanotech Lab, Te.Far.T.I, Department of Life Sciences, University of Modena 
and Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy.
(9)Umberto Veronesi Foundation, 20121, Milano, Italy.
(10)Institute of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (IN2UB), Barcelona, Spain.
(11)Department of Pharmacy, Pharmaceutical Technology and Physical Chemistry, 
Faculty of Pharmacy and Food Sciences, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(12)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of 
Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(13)CEB - Centre of Biological Engineering, University of Minho, Campus de 
Gualtar, 4710-057, Braga, Portugal.
(14)Research Center and Memory Clinic, Fundació ACE. Institut Català de 
Neurociències Aplicades, International University of Catalunya (UIC), C/Marquès 
de Sentmenat, 57, 08029, Barcelona, Spain.
(#)Contributed equally

Increasing life expectancy has led to an aging population, which has 
consequently increased the prevalence of dementia. Alzheimer's disease (AD), the 
most common form of dementia worldwide, is estimated to make up 50-80% of all 
cases. AD cases are expected to reach 131 million by 2050, and this increasing 
prevalence will critically burden economies and health systems in the next 
decades. There is currently no treatment that can stop or reverse disease 
progression. In addition, the late diagnosis of AD constitutes a major obstacle 
to effective disease management. Therefore, improved diagnostic tools and new 
treatments for AD are urgently needed. In this review, we investigate and 
describe both well-established and recently discovered AD biomarkers that could 
potentially be used to detect AD at early stages and allow the monitoring of 
disease progression. Proteins such as NfL, MMPs, p-tau217, YKL-40, SNAP-25, 
VCAM-1, and Ng / BACE are some of the most promising biomarkers because of their 
successful use as diagnostic tools. In addition, we explore the most recent 
molecular strategies for an AD therapeutic approach and nanomedicine-based 
technologies, used to both target drugs to the brain and serve as devices for 
tracking disease progression diagnostic biomarkers. State-of-the-art 
nanoparticles, such as polymeric, lipid, and metal-based, are being widely 
investigated for their potential to improve the effectiveness of both 
conventional drugs and novel compounds for treating AD. The most recent studies 
on these nanodevices are deeply explained and discussed in this review.

DOI: 10.1186/s12951-021-00864-x
PMCID: PMC8086346
PMID: 33926475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None of the authors has any conflicts of 
interest including any financial, personal or other relationships with other 
people or organizations. All authors have reviewed the contents of the 
manuscript being submitted and approved its contents.


30. Thorac Surg Clin. 2021 May;31(2):119-128. doi:
10.1016/j.thorsurg.2021.01.003.

Analysis of Recent Literature on Lung Volume Reduction Surgery.

McCarthy DP(1), Taylor LJ(2), DeCamp MM(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, 600 Highland Avenue, Madison, WI 53792, USA.
(2)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University of Colorado, Anschutz Medical 
Campus, 12631 East 17th Avenue, Room 5401, Mail Stop C-291, Aurora, CO 80045, 
USA.
(3)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, 600 Highland Avenue, H4/340, Madison, WI 53792-0001, USA. 
Electronic address: decamp@surgery.wisc.edu.

