partial obstruction of the pulmonary valve during systole. The patient underwent 
surgical resection of the tumor. Macroscopic specimen showed a translucent 
polypoid mass with hemorrhagic areas. Microscopy confirmed the diagnosis of RV 
myxoma. The case illustrates the difficulty of establishing the correct 
etiological diagnosis of a cardiac mass, especially when located in the right 
ventricle. Multimodality imaging remains the cornerstone of noninvasive tissue 
characterization of cardiac masses, still requiring histopathological 
confirmation, particularly in the setting of conflicting imaging results.

DOI: 10.47162/RJME.61.3.32
PMCID: PMC8112758
PMID: 33817735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interests.


702. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2021 Jul;188(1):273-282. doi: 
10.1007/s10549-021-06156-0. Epub 2021 Apr 5.

Breast cancer survivors: physical and mental quality of life 10 years following 
diagnosis, a case-control study.

Chetrit A(1), Ben-Avraham S(2), Mandelzweig L(2), Amitai T(2), Danieli NS(3)(4), 
Silverman B(5)(4), Sadetzki S(2)(4)(6).

Author information:
(1)Cancer & Radiation Epidemiology Unit, Gertner Institute for Epidemiology & 
Health Policy Research, Sheba Medical Center, 5262000, Tel-Hashomer, Israel. 
angelac@gertner.health.gov.il.
(2)Cancer & Radiation Epidemiology Unit, Gertner Institute for Epidemiology & 
Health Policy Research, Sheba Medical Center, 5262000, Tel-Hashomer, Israel.
(3)Oncology Service Line, Maccabi Health Services, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(4)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(5)Israel National Cancer Registry, Ministry of Health, Sheba Medical Center, 
5262000, Tel-Hashomer, Israel.
(6)Ministry of Health, Jerusalem, Israel.

PURPOSE: Improvements in diagnosis and treatment of Breast Cancer (BC) have 
resulted in an increase in the life expectancy of survivors and in the 
importance of quality of life in BC survivorship care. The current study aimed 
to assess the Health-Related Quality Of Life (HRQOL) of BC survivors and to 
investigate the association of comorbidities with HRQOL compared to a group of 
women with no history of cancer.
METHODS: Women were residents of the central district in Israel, the case group 
included 250 women diagnosed with BC between 1999 and 2003, with no prior cancer 
history and no evidence of disease after 8-12 years. The comparison group 
included 250 women with no cancer history, individually matched to cases by age 
and area of residence. Data were collected through in-person interviews, and 
HRQOL was assessed using the Short Form-36 (SF-36) questionnaire. Regression 
analyses were performed evaluating the influence of demographic, socioeconomic, 
lifestyle characteristics and comorbidities on physical and mental HRQOL.
RESULTS: The physical and mental summary scores means, were 48.5 ± 11.1 and 49.2 
± 10.8 compared to 51.5 ± 10.2 and 50.9 ± 10.6, in BC survivors and the 
comparison group, respectively (p = 0.002 and p = 0.097). BC survivors and 
controls did not differ in number and type of comorbidities and for both groups 
a negative association was seen with HRQOL. Controlling for age, income, number 
of comorbidities, BMI and physical activity, BC survivor had decreased physical 
(b = -2.49, p = 0.001) and mental summary scores (b = -1.27, p = 0.18).
CONCLUSION: HRQOL of BC survivors should gain more attention in the area of 
cancer care, especially when comorbidities are present.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-021-06156-0
PMID: 33818651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2021 Aug;28(31):42609-42621. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-021-13774-0. Epub 2021 Apr 5.

The convergence of species composition along the drawdown zone of the Three 
Gorges Dam Reservoir, China: implications for restoration.

Zheng J(1), Arif M(1), Zhang S(2), Yuan Z(1), Zhang L(1), Dong Z(1), Tan X(1), 
Charles W(1), Li C(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Eco-environments in the Three Gorges Reservoir Region 
(Ministry of Education), Chongqing Key Laboratory of Plant Ecology and Resources 
Research in the Three Gorges Reservoir Region, School of Life Sciences, 
Southwest University, Chongqing, 400715, China.
(2)Chongqing Institute of Green and Intelligent Technology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Chongqing, 400714, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Eco-environments in the Three Gorges Reservoir Region 
(Ministry of Education), Chongqing Key Laboratory of Plant Ecology and Resources 
Research in the Three Gorges Reservoir Region, School of Life Sciences, 
Southwest University, Chongqing, 400715, China. lichangx@swu.edu.cn.

Many rivers across the globe are regulated by dams, resulting in a strong 
alteration of the plant community composition of the drawdown zone. But, how 
these changes happen along the drawdown zone is less understood. In this study, 
a multivariate analysis was used to explore plant composition and similarity 
along the drawdown zone of the Three Gorges Dam Reservoir (TGDR), China. The 
dominant plant species, species richness, indicator species, and growth form 
were compared among the upstream, midstream, and downstream of the TGDR. 
Moreover, variation partitioning was used to determine the relative importance 
of environmental factors and spatial factors. Results showed that only a few 
species contributed the most to the community composition of the study area, and 
there was an extreme similarity in the plant community composition across the 
three different river segments. Furthermore, the results of the linear 
regression model demonstrated a steady declining trend in species richness along 
the drawdown zone, with the lowest species richness in the downstream segment. 
In addition, variation partitioning revealed 11% and 8% of the species 
composition change under environmental and spatial factors, respectively. Our 
results suggested that the dam impoundment led to the convergence of species 
composition along the drawdown zone of the TGDR, and environmental filtering and 
dispersal limitation played an imperative role in shaping species composition. 
The study highlighted the importance of restoration activities in overcoming the 
barriers of seed dispersal and seedling establishment in the degraded drawdown 
zone ecosystem of the TGDR.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-021-13774-0
PMID: 33818726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Haemophilia. 2021 May;27(3):e347-e356. doi: 10.1111/hae.14297. Epub 2021 Apr
5.

Confirmed long-term safety and efficacy of prophylactic treatment with BAY 
94-9027 in severe haemophilia A: final results of the PROTECT VIII extension 
study.

Reding MT(1), Pabinger I(2), Holme PA(3), Poulsen L(4), Negrier C(5), Chalasani 
P(6), Maas Enriquez M(7), Wang M(8), Meijer K(9), Mancuso ME(10), Lalezari 
S(11).

Author information:
(1)Center for Bleeding and Clotting Disorders, University of Minnesota Medical 
Center, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(2)University Clinic for Internal Medicine I, Medical University of Vienna, 
Vienna, Austria.
(3)Department of Haematology, Oslo University Hospital and Institute of Clinical 
Medicine, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(4)The Haemophilia Centre, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.
(5)Hemophilia Comprehensive Care Center and Hematology Department, Louis Pradel 
University Hospital, Lyon, France.
(6)Division of Hematology and Oncology, University of Arizona Cancer Center, 
Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(7)Bayer, Wuppertal, Germany.
(8)Bayer, Whippany, NJ, USA.
(9)University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands.
(10)Center for Thrombosis and Haemorrhagic Diseases, IRCCS Humanitas Clinical 
and Research Center, Rozzano, Italy.
(11)National Haemophilia Centre, Chaim Sheba Medical Centre, Tel Aviv 
University, Tel Hashomer, Israel.

INTRODUCTION: The phase 2/3 PROTECT VIII main study demonstrated efficacy and 
safety of BAY 94-9027 (damoctocog alfa pegol; Jivi® ), a B-domain-deleted 
recombinant factor VIII (FVIII), site-specifically PEGylated to extend its 
half-life.
AIM: To report the final efficacy and safety data for BAY 94-9027 from the 
PROTECT VIII extension.
METHODS: Previously treated males aged 12-65 years with severe haemophilia A 
(FVIII <1%) who completed the multicentre, open-label PROTECT VIII main study 
were eligible for the extension. Patients received either on demand or 
prophylaxis treatments (30-40 IU/kg twice weekly [2 × W], 45-60 IU/kg every 
5 days [E5D], or 60 IU/kg every 7 days [E7D]) and could switch to any 
prophylaxis regimen (variable frequency) as needed. Annualised bleeding rates 
(ABR), zero bleeds and safety outcomes were included in this final analysis.
RESULTS: At extension completion, patients (n = 121) received BAY 94-9027 for a 
median (range) total time of 3.9 (0.8-7.0) years. Median (Q1; Q3) total ABR was 
1.49 (0.36; 4.80) for prophylaxis patients (n = 107), compared with 34.09 (20.3; 
36.6) for on-demand patients (n = 14). Median total ABRs for 2 × W (n = 23), E5D 
(n = 33), E7D (n = 23) and variable frequency (n = 28) groups were 1.57, 1.17, 
0.65 and 3.10, respectively. Of prophylaxis patients, 20.6% were bleed-free 
during the entire extension (median time, 3.2 years) and 50.0% were bleed-free 
during the last 6 months. No patient developed FVIII inhibitors. No deaths or 
thrombotic events were reported.
CONCLUSIONS: Efficacy and safety of BAY 94-9027 was confirmed, with extension 
data supporting its use as a long-term treatment option for patients with 
haemophilia A.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hae.14297
PMCID: PMC9290859
PMID: 33818853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M. T. Reding has received honoraria for 
participation on advisory boards and/or speakers bureaus from Bayer, CSL 
Behring, Novo Nordisk, Sanofi Genzyme, Takeda, and grant funding from Bayer and 
Biomarin. I. Pabinger has received honoraria for lectures and advisory board 
meetings from Bayer, Biotest, CSL Behring, Octapharma, Pfizer, Shire, Novo 
Nordisk, Sobi, Roche, and has received unrestricted research grants from CSL 
Behring and Novo Nordisk. P. A. Holme has received speaker honoraria from Bayer, 
Novo Nordisk, Octapharma, Pfizer, and Shire and Sobi, and has received 
grant/research support from Bayer, Octapharma, Pfizer and Shire L. Poulsen has 
received honoraria for congresses from Bayer, Novo Nordisk, Sobi, Pfizer and 
Octapharma and has received grant/research support from Pfizer C. Negrier has 
received grant/research support, honoraria or consultation fees from Alnylam, 
Baxalta/Shire, Bayer, CSL Behring, LFB, Novo Nordisk, Octapharma, Roche, Pfizer 
and Sobi. P. Chalasani has received research support from Pfizer, not related to 
any haematologic products. M. Maas Enriquez and M. Wang and are employees of 
Bayer. K. Meijer has received honoraria from UniQure, and has received 
grant/research support from Bayer, Sanquin and Pfizer M. Elisa Mancuso has 
received honoraria for participation on advisory boards from Bayer, Bioverativ, 
Catalyst, CSL Behring, Grifols, Kedrion, Novo Nordisk, Octapharma, Pfizer, 
Roche, Shire and Sobi, and has received honoraria on speakers bureaus from 
Bayer, Biotest, CSL Behring, Grifols, Kedrion, Novo Nordisk, Octapharma, Pfizer, 
Roche, Shire and Sobi. S. Lalezari has received honoraria/consultation fees from 
Bayer, Pi Healthcare, Pfizer, Roche, Takeda and Teva, and for 
symposia/congresses from Alnylam, Bayer, Baxter, Biogen, BioMarin, Grifols, Novo 
Nordisk, Pfizer, Roche, Daiichi Sankyo and Janssen.


705. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2021 May;68 Suppl 2:e28292. doi: 10.1002/pbc.28292.

Palliative radiation therapy for children with cancer.

Tsang DS(1), Vargo JA(2), Goddard K(3), Breneman JC(4), Kalapurakal JA(5), 
Marcus KJ(6).

Author information:
(1)Radiation Medicine Program, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, Toronto, Canada.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania.
(3)Department of Surgery, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Northwestern Medicine, Chicago, Illinois.
(6)Division of Radiation Oncology, Boston Children's Hospital and Dana-Farber 
Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts.

Radiation therapy (RT) is often used as a palliative treatment for children with 
recurrent malignant disease to ameliorate or prevent symptoms. However, no 
guidelines exist regarding the clinical indications or dose fractionation for 
palliative RT. The goal of this report is to provide guidelines for the use of 
palliative RT in children with cancer. In this guideline, appropriate 
indications for palliative RT, recommended dose-fractionation schedules, 
relevant toxicities, and avenues for future research are explored. RT is an 
effective palliative treatment for bone, brain, liver, lung, abdominopelvic and 
head-and-neck metastases, spinal cord compression, superior vena cava syndrome, 
and bleeding. Single-fraction regimens (8 Gy in one fraction) for children with 
short life expectancy are recommended for simple, uncomplicated bone metastases 
and can be considered for some patients with lung or liver metastases. A short, 
hypofractionated regimen (20 Gy in five fractions) may be used for other 
indications to minimize overall burden of therapy. There are little data 
supporting use of more prolonged fractionation regimens, though they may be 
considered for patients with very good performance status. Future research 
should focus on response and outcomes data collection, and to rigorously 
evaluate the role of stereotactic body RT in well-designed, prospective studies.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.28292
PMID: 33818881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Arch Razi Inst. 2021 Mar;76(1):139-147. doi: 10.22092/ari.2019.127569.1387.
Epub  2021 Mar 1.

Experimental Evaluation of Mouse Hind Paw Edema Induced by Iranian Naja oxiana 
Venom.

Esmaili A(1), Kamyab M(2), Fatemikia H(3), Ahmadzadeh H(4), Movahed A(5), Kim 
E(6), Mohamadpour Dounighi N(7), Salemi A(7), Seyedian R(8)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Bushehr University of Medical Sciences, Bushehr, 
Iran.
(2)Department of Aquatic Biotechnology, Faculty of Life Sciences and 
Biotechnology, Shahid Beheshti University, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Physiology, Medical School, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(4)School of Medicine, Bushehr University of Medical Sciences, Bushehr, Iran.
(5)Biochemistry Group, The Persian Gulf Tropical Research Center, Bushehr 
University of Medical Sciences, Bushehr, Iran.
(6)College of Veterinary Medicine, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju, South 
Korea.
(7)Department of Human Vaccine and Serum, Razi Vaccine and Serum Research 
Institute, Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), 
Karaj, Iran.
(8)Department of Pharmacology, Bushehr University of Medical Sciences, Bushehr, 
Iran.

Iranian Naja oxiana (the Elapidae family) known as cobra snake inhabits in the 
northwestern part of Iran. This study aimed to evaluate the edematogenic potency 
of the crude venom with intraplantar injection into mice. Additionally, the 
inhibitory effects of three different drugs (i.e., promethazine, dexamethasone, 
and piroxicam) on paw edema were examined. Moreover, the gelatinase activity of 
this venom was assessed using the zymography method. Paw edema was induced by 
the intraplantar injection of different concentrations of the venom (0.5-5 
&amp;mu;g dissolved in 50 &amp;mu;l of normal saline) into the mice (six in each 
group). It was estimated through the measurement of the increase in the paw 
thickness (%) with a digital caliper. The paws were pretreated and the rate of 
changes was measured after the venom injection. Pathological findings in the 
treated paws were evaluated with hematoxylin and eosin staining. Paw thickness 
reached its maximum amount within 5 min and resolved after 1 h. This venom had 
no gelatinase activity using the zymography method ruling out its role in edema. 
It caused non-hemorrhagic diffuse edema with the infiltration of inflammatory 
cells (i.e., leukocytes and lymphocytes) in the dermis. Intraperitoneal 
pretreatment with drugs significantly inhibited the venom-induced (1 
&amp;mu;g/paw) edema; however, all the mice died unexpectedly a day after 
piroxicam injection. This in vitro and in vivo preliminary study demonstrated 
for the first time that N. oxiana venom-induced non-hemorrhagic edema in a short 
time. Dexamethasone (phospholipase A2 inhibitor; 1 mg/kg) and promethazine (H1 
inhibitor; 5 mg/kg) decreased the venom-induced edema (p &amp;lt;0.001). It is 
suggested to carry out further studies to identify different mediators in 
venom-induced edema formation.

Copyright © 2021, Author(s). Published by Kowsar.

DOI: 10.22092/ari.2019.127569.1387
PMCID: PMC8410197
PMID: 33818966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest.


707. Adv Ther. 2021 May;38(5):2447-2457. doi: 10.1007/s12325-021-01734-6. Epub
2021  Apr 5.

First-Line Atezolizumab for Metastatic NSCLC with High PD-L1 Expression: A 
United States-Based Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.

Peng Y(#)(1), Zeng X(#)(2), Peng L(1), Liu Q(1), Yi L(1), Luo X(1), Li S(1), 
Wang L(1), Qin S(1), Wan X(3), Tan C(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, No. 139 Renmin Middle Road, Changsha, 410011, Hunan, China.
(2)PET-CT Center, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South University, 
Changsha, 410011, Hunan, China.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, No. 139 Renmin Middle Road, Changsha, 410011, Hunan, China. 
wanxiaomin@csu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, No. 139 Renmin Middle Road, Changsha, 410011, Hunan, China. 
tanchongqing@csu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: The IMpower110 trial evaluated the efficacy and safety of 
atezolizumab in previously untreated patients with metastatic non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC). Due to the high cost of immunity inhibitors, it is 
necessary to evaluate their value based on their efficacy and cost. This study 
evaluated the cost-effectiveness of atezolizumab as the first-line treatment for 
NSCLC with high programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression from the US 
payer perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model with three health states was developed to estimate the 
cost and outcome of atezolizumab versus platinum-based chemotherapy in patients 
with previously untreated metastatic NSCLC with high PD-L1 expression. Model 
outputs included the life-years (LYs), quality-adjusted LYs (QALYs), total cost, 
and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). One-way and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses were performed for all parameters.
RESULTS: Atezolizumab produced an additional 1.32 QALYs (2.08 LYs) compared with 
platinum-based chemotherapy. The accompanying incremental cost was US$224,590. 
The results of one-way sensitivity analysis found that the ICER was most 
sensitive to the HR of OS. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that 
the probability of atezolizumab being cost-effective compared with 
platinum-based chemotherapy was 10.28% and 37.71% at the willing-to-pay (WTP) 
threshold of $100,000/QALY and $150,000/QALY, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Atezolizumab was estimated not to be cost-effective compared with 
platinum-based chemotherapy in the first-line treatment of patients with NSCLC 
with high PD-L1 expression.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-021-01734-6
PMID: 33821431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. J Med Toxicol. 2022 Jan;18(1):43-55. doi: 10.1007/s13181-021-00835-6. Epub
2021  Apr 5.

A Review of Cancer Immunotherapy Toxicity II: Adoptive Cellular Therapies, 
Kinase Inhibitors, Monoclonal Antibodies, and Oncolytic Viruses.

Chhabra N(1)(2), Kennedy J(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Division of Medical Toxicology, Cook County 
Health, 1950 W Polk Street, 7th Floor, Chicago, IL, 60612, USA. 
NChhabra@cookcountyhhs.org.
(2)Toxikon Consortium, Chicago, IL, USA. NChhabra@cookcountyhhs.org.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, Division of Medical Toxicology, Cook County 
Health, 1950 W Polk Street, 7th Floor, Chicago, IL, 60612, USA.
(4)Toxikon Consortium, Chicago, IL, USA.

Immunotherapy for cancer has undergone a rapid expansion in classes, agents, and 
indications. By utilizing aspects of the body's innate immune system, 
immunotherapy has improved life expectancy and quality of life for patients with 
several types of cancer. Adoptive cellular therapies, including chimeric antigen 
receptor T (CAR T) cell therapy, involve the genetic engineering of patient T 
cells to allow for targeting of neoplastic cells. Monitoring of patients during 
the lymphodepletion prior to therapy and following CAR T cell infusion is 
necessary to detect toxicity of therapy. Specific toxicities include cytokine 
release syndrome and neurologic toxicity, both of which may be life-threatening. 
Tocilizumab and/or corticosteroids should be considered for moderate to severe 
toxicity. Kinase inhibitor toxicity can occur as "on target" effects or "off 
target" effects to multiple organ systems due to shared protein epitopes. 
Treatments are organ-specific. Infusion reactions are common during treatment 
with monoclonal antibodies and treatment is largely supportive. Clinical 
experience with oncolytic viruses is limited, but local reactions including 
cellulitis as well as systemic influenza-like syndromes have been seen but are 
typically mild. Although clinical experience with adverse effects due to newer 
immunotherapy agents is growing, an up-to-date understanding of their mechanisms 
and potential toxicities is critical.

© 2021. American College of Medical Toxicology.

DOI: 10.1007/s13181-021-00835-6
PMCID: PMC8021214
PMID: 33821435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None


709. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2021 Apr 21;13(15):18301-18313. doi: 
10.1021/acsami.1c01834. Epub 2021 Apr 6.

Boosting Long-Range Surface-Enhanced Raman Scattering on Plasmonic Nanohole 
Arrays for Ultrasensitive Detection of MiRNA.

Luo X(1), Zhu J(1), Jia W(1), Fang N(1), Wu P(1), Cai C(1), Zhu JJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of New Power Batteries, Jiangsu Collaborative 
Innovation Center of Biomedical Functional Materials, School of Chemistry and 
Materials Science, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing 210023, P. R. China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Analytical for Life Science, School of Chemistry & 
Chemical Engineering, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210023, P. R. China.

A fundamental challenge, particularly, in surface-enhanced Raman scattering 
(SERS) analysis is the detection of analytes that are distant from the sensing 
surface. To tackle this challenge, we herein report a long-range SERS (LR-SERS) 
substrate supporting an extension of electric field afforded by long-range 
surface plasmon resonance (LRSPR) excited in symmetrical dielectric 
environments. The LR-SERS substrate has a sandwich configuration with a 
triangle-shaped gold nanohole array embedded between two dielectrics with 
similar refractive indices (i.e., MgF2 and water). The finite-difference 
time-domain simulation was applied to guide the design of the LR-SERS substrate, 
which was engineered to have a wavelength-matched LRSPR with 785 nm excitation. 
The simulations predict that the LR-SERS substrate exhibits great SERS 
enhancement at distances of more than 10 nm beyond its top surface, and the 
enhancement factor (EF) has been improved by three orders of magnitude on 
LR-SERS substrates compared to that on conventional substrates. The experimental 
results show good agreement with the simulations, an EF of 4.1 × 105 remains 
available at 22 nm above the LR-SERS substrate surface. The LR-SERS substrate 
was further applied as a sensing platform to detect microRNA (miRNA) let-7a 
coupled with a hybridization chain reaction (HCR) strategy. The developed sensor 
displays a wide linear range from 10 aM to 1 nM and an ultralow detection limit 
of 8.5 aM, making it the most sensitive among the current detection strategies 
for miRNAs based on the SERS-HCR combination to the best of our knowledge.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.1c01834
PMID: 33821612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Elife. 2021 Apr 6;10:e66128. doi: 10.7554/eLife.66128.

High social status males experience accelerated epigenetic aging in wild 
baboons.

Anderson JA(#)(1), Johnston RA(#)(1), Lea AJ(2)(3)(4), Campos FA(2)(5), Voyles 
TN(1), Akinyi MY(6), Alberts SC(1)(2), Archie EA(7), Tung J(1)(2)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Evolutionary Anthropology, Duke University, Durham, United 
States.
(2)Department of Biology, Duke University, Durham, United States.
(3)Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics, Carl Icahn Laboratory, 
Princeton University, Princeton, United States.
(4)Department of Ecology and Evolution, Princeton University, Princeton, United 
States.
(5)Department of Anthropology, University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, 
United States.
(6)Institute of Primate Research, National Museums of Kenya, Nairobi, Kenya.
(7)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, 
United States.
(8)Duke Population Research Institute, Duke University, Durham, United States.
(9)Canadian Institute for Advanced Research, Toronto, Canada.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Elife. 2021 Apr 30;10:

Aging, for virtually all life, is inescapable. However, within populations, 
biological aging rates vary. Understanding sources of variation in this process 
is central to understanding the biodemography of natural populations. We 
constructed a DNA methylation-based age predictor for an intensively studied 
wild baboon population in Kenya. Consistent with findings in humans, the 
resulting 'epigenetic clock' closely tracks chronological age, but individuals 
are predicted to be somewhat older or younger than their known ages. 
Surprisingly, these deviations are not explained by the strongest predictors of 
lifespan in this population, early adversity and social integration. Instead, 
they are best predicted by male dominance rank: high-ranking males are predicted 
to be older than their true ages, and epigenetic age tracks changes in rank over 
time. Our results argue that achieving high rank for male baboons - the best 
predictor of reproductive success - imposes costs consistent with a 'live fast, 
die young' life-history strategy.

Plain Language Summary: For most animals, age is one of the strongest predictors 
of health and survival, but not all individuals age at the same rate. In fact, 
animals of the same species can have different 'biological ages' even when they 
have lived the same number of years. In humans and other mammals this variation 
in aging shows up in chemical modifications known as DNA methylation marks. Some 
researchers call these marks 'epigenetic', which literally means 'upon the 
genes'. And some DNA methylation marks change with age, so their combined 
pattern of change is often called the ‘epigenetic clock’. Environmental 
stressors, such as smoking or lack of physical activity, can make the epigenetic 
clock ‘tick’ faster, making the DNA of some individuals appear older than 
expected based on their actual age in years. These ‘biologically older’ 
individuals may also experience a higher risk of age-related disease. Studies in 
humans have revealed some of the reasons behind this fast biological aging, but 
it is unclear whether these results apply in the wild. It is possible that early 
life events trigger changes in the epigenetic clock, affecting health in 
adulthood. In primates, for example, adversity in early life has known effects 
on fertility and survival. Low social status also has a negative effect on 
health. To find out whether early experiences and the social environment affect 
the epigenetic clock, Anderson, Johnston et al. tracked DNA methylation marks in 
baboons. This revealed that epigenetic clocks are strong predictors of age in 
wild primates, but neither early adversity nor the strength of social bonds 
affected the rate at which the clocks ticked. In fact, it was competition for 
social status that had the most dramatic effect on the clock’s speed. Samples of 
males taken at different times during their lives showed that their epigenetic 
clocks sped up or slowed down as they moved up or down the social ladder, 
reflecting recent social experiences, rather than events early in their lives. 
On average, epigenetic clock measurements overestimated the age in years of 
alpha males by almost a year, showing that fighting to be on top comes at a 
cost. This study highlights one way in which the social environment can 
influence aging. The next step is to understand how health is affected by the 
ways that animals attain social status. This could help researchers who study 
evolution understand how social interactions and environmental conditions affect 
survival and reproduction. It could also provide insight into the effects of 
social status on human health and aging.

© 2021, Anderson et al.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.66128
PMCID: PMC8087445
PMID: 33821798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: JA, RJ, AL, FC, TV, MA, SA, EA No competing 
interests declared, JT Reviewing editor, eLife


711. Am J Hypertens. 2021 Apr 2;34(3):234-241. doi: 10.1093/ajh/hpab009.

Blood Pressure Trajectories Across the Life Course.

Allen NB(1), Khan SS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(2)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois, USA.

High blood pressure (BP) is a strong modifiable risk factor for cardiovascular 
disease (CVD). Longitudinal BP patterns themselves may reflect the burden of 
risk and vascular damage due to prolonged cumulative exposure to high BP levels. 
Current studies have begun to characterize BP patterns as a trajectory over an 
individual's lifetime. These BP trajectories take into account the absolute BP 
levels as well as the slope of BP changes throughout the lifetime thus 
incorporating longitudinal BP patterns into a single metric. Methodologic issues 
that need to be considered when examining BP trajectories include 
individual-level vs. population-level group-based modeling, use of distinct but 
complementary BP metrics (systolic, diastolic, mean arterial, mid, and pulse 
pressure), and potential for measurement errors related to varied settings, 
devices, and number of readings utilized. There appear to be very specific 
developmental periods during which divergent BP trajectories may emerge, 
specifically adolescence, the pregnancy period, and older adulthood. Lifetime BP 
trajectories are impacted by both individual-level and community-level factors 
and have been associated with incident hypertension, multimorbidity (CVD, renal 
disease, cognitive impairment), and overall life expectancy. Key unanswered 
questions remain around the additive predictive value of BP trajectories, 
intergenerational contributions to BP patterns (in utero BP exposure), and 
potential genetic drivers of BP patterns. The next phase in understanding BP 
trajectories needs to focus on how best to incorporate this knowledge into 
clinical care to reduce the burden of hypertensive-related outcomes and improve 
health equity.

© American Journal of Hypertension, Ltd 2021. All rights reserved. For 
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ajh/hpab009
PMCID: PMC8022959
PMID: 33821941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Bioconjug Chem. 2021 Apr 21;32(4):794-800. doi:
10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.1c00075.  Epub 2021 Apr 6.

Attenuation of the Reaction of Michael Acceptors with Biologically Important 
Nucleophiles.

Hearn BR(1), Fontaine SD(1), Schneider EL(1), Kraemer Y(1), Ashley GW(1), Santi 
DV(1).

Author information:
(1)ProLynx, 455 Mission Bay Boulevard South, Suite 341, San Francisco, 
California 94158, United States.

β-Elimination of drugs tethered to macromolecular carbamates provides a platform 
for drug half-life extension. However, the macromolecular Michael acceptor 
products formed upon drug release can potentially react with biological amines 
and thiols and may raise concerns about safety. We desired to mitigate this 
possibility by developing linkers that have predictable rates of β-elimination 
but suppressed rates of nucleophilic addition to their Michael acceptor 
products. We prepared Michael acceptor products of β-eliminative linkers that 
contained a methyl group at the Cβ carbon or a gem-dimethyl group at the Cγ 
carbon and studied the kinetics of their reactions with the most prevalent 
biological nucleophiles-amine and thiol groups. Aza-Michael reactions with 
glycine are slowed about 20-fold by methylation of the β-carbon and 175-fold 
with a gem-dimethyl group at the γ-carbon. Likewise, addition of the glutathione 
thiol to γ-gem-dimethyl Michael acceptors was retarded 7-24-fold compared to 
parent unsubstituted linkers. It was estimated that in an in vivo environment of 
∼0.5 mM macromolecular thiols or ∼20 mM macromolecular amines-as in plasma-the 
reaction half-life of a typical Michael acceptor with a γ-gem-dimethyl linker 
could exceed 3 years for thiols or 25 years for amines. We also prepared a large 
series of γ-gem-dimethyl β-eliminative linkers and showed excellent 
structure-activity relationships of elimination rates with corresponding 
unsubstituted parent linkers. Finally, we compared the first-generation 
unsubstituted and new gem-dimethyl β-eliminative linkers in a once-monthly drug 
delivery system of a 39 amino acid peptide. Both linkers provided the desired 
half-life extension of the peptide, but the Michael acceptor formed from the 
gem-dimethyl linker was much less reactive. We conclude that the γ-gem-dimethyl 
β-eliminative linkers provide high flexibility and greatly reduce potential 
reactions of Michael acceptor products with biologically important nucleophiles.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.1c00075
PMID: 33822591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Environ Res. 2021 Jun;197:111123. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2021.111123. Epub
2021  Apr 3.

Global PM2.5-attributable health burden from 1990 to 2017: Estimates from the 
Global Burden of disease study 2017.

Bu X(1), Xie Z(2), Liu J(3), Wei L(3), Wang X(3), Chen M(4), Ren H(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Shanghai Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, 
Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an 
Jiaotong University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China.
(4)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China. Electronic 
address: chenmingwei@xjtu.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China. Electronic 
address: renhui@xjtufh.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Long-term exposure to ambient and household particulate matter 
(PM2.5) causes death and health loss, and both are the leading risk factor to 
global disease burden. We assessed spatiotemporal trends of ambient and 
household PM2.5 attributable burdens across various diseases at the global, 
regional, and national levels from 1990 to 2017.
METHODS: Data on PM2.5-attributable disease burdens were extracted from the 
Global Burden of Disease (GBD) study 2017. Numbers and age-standardized rates 
(ASRs) of deaths, disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) and corresponding 
estimated annual percentage change (EAPC) were estimated by disease, age, sex, 
Socio-demographic Index (SDI), locations.
RESULTS: Exposure to PM2.5 contributed to 4.58 million deaths and 142.52 million 
DALYs globally in 2017, among which ambient PM2.5 contributed to 64.2% deaths 
and 58.3% DALYs. ASRs of deaths and DALYs in 2017 decreased to 59.62/105 persons 
with an EAPC of -2.15 (95% CI: 2.21 to -2.09) and 1856.61/105 persons with an 
EAPC of -2.58 (95% CI: 2.64 to -2.51), respectively compared to those in 1990. 
Ambient PM2.5-attributable Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) have dominated major 
concern in middle and low SDI countries especially in South Asia and East Asia, 
while household PM2.5-attributable lower respiratory infections (LRIs) still 
caused the largest burden in low SDI countries in Africa and Asia. Those under 5 
and over 70 years old had the largest burdens in PM2.5 attributable LRI and 
NCDs, respectively.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, ambient PM2.5-attributable NCDs have threatened 
public health in middle and low SDI countries, while household 
PM2.5-attributable LRI still caused the largest burden in low SDI countries. 
More positive strategies should be tailored to reduce PM2.5-attributable burdens 
considering specific settings globally.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2021.111123
PMID: 33823194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Expert Opin Drug Discov. 2021 Aug;16(8):897-913. doi: 
10.1080/17460441.2021.1912732. Epub 2021 Apr 13.

Discovery of CFTR modulators for the treatment of cystic fibrosis.

Lopes-Pacheco M(1), Pedemonte N(2), Veit G(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal.
(2)UOC Genetica Medica, IRCCS Istituto Giannina Gaslini, Genoa, Italy.
(3)Department of Physiology, McGill University, Montréal, Canada.

INTRODUCTION: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a life-threatening inherited disease 
caused by mutations in the gene encoding the CF transmembrane conductance 
regulator (CFTR) protein, an anion channel expressed at the apical membrane of 
secretory epithelia. CF leads to multiorgan dysfunction with progressive 
deterioration of lung function being the major cause of untimely death. 
Conventional CF therapies target only symptoms and consequences downstream of 
the primary genetic defect and the current life expectancy and quality of life 
of these individuals are still very limited.
AREA COVERED: CFTR modulator drugs are novel-specialized therapies that enhance 
or even restore functional expression of CFTR mutants and have been approved for 
clinical use for individuals with specific CF genotypes. This review summarizes 
classical approaches used for the pre-clinical development of CFTR correctors 
and potentiators as well as emerging strategies aiming to accelerate modulator 
development and expand theratyping efforts.
EXPERT OPINION: Highly effective CFTR modulator drugs are expected to deeply 
modify the disease course for the majority of individuals with CF. A multitude 
of experimental approaches have been established to accelerate the development 
of novel modulators. CF patient-derived specimens are valuable cell models to 
predict therapeutic effectiveness of existing (and novel) modulators in a 
precision medicine approach.

DOI: 10.1080/17460441.2021.1912732
PMID: 33823716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. BMC Health Serv Res. 2021 Apr 6;21(1):305. doi: 10.1186/s12913-021-06268-9.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of flucytosine as induction therapy in the treatment 
of cryptococcal meningitis in HIV-infected adults in South Africa.

Miot J(1), Leong T(2), Takuva S(3)(4), Parrish A(5), Dawood H(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Epidemiology Research Office, School of Clinical 
Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, 
Johannesburg, South Africa. jmiot@heroza.org.
(2)National Department of Health, Affordable Medicines Directorate, Essential 
Drugs Programme, Pretoria, South Africa.
(3)Perinatal HIV Research Unit, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the 
Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(4)School of Health Systems and Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, Cecilia Makiwane Hospital, East London, 
South Africa.
(6)Department of Medicine, Greys Hospital, Pietermaritzburg, KwaZulu-Natal, 
South Africa.
(7)Caprisa, University of KwaZulu-Natal, Durban, South Africa.

BACKGROUND: Cryptococcal meningitis in HIV-infected patients in sub-Saharan 
Africa accounts for three-quarters of the global cases and 135,000 deaths per 
annum. Current treatment includes the use of fluconazole and amphotericin B. 
Recent evidence has shown that the synergistic use of flucytosine improves 
efficacy and reduces toxicity, however affordability and availability has 
hampered access to flucytosine in many countries. This study investigated the 
evidence and cost implications of introducing flucytosine as induction therapy 
for cryptococcal meningitis in HIV-infected adults in South Africa.
METHODS: A decision analytic cost-effectiveness and cost impact model was 
developed based on survival estimates from the ACTA trial and local costs for 
flucytosine as induction therapy in HIV-infected adults with cryptococcal 
meningitis in a public sector setting in South Africa. The model considered five 
treatment arms: (a) standard of care; 2-week course amphotericin B/fluconazole 
(2wk AmBd/Flu), (b) 2-week course amphotericin B/flucytosine (2wk AmBd/5FC), (c) 
short course; 1-week course amphotericin B/flucytosine (1wk AmBd/5FC) (d) oral 
course; 2-week oral fluconazole/flucytosine (oral) and e) 1-week course 
amphotericin B/fluconazole (1wk AmBd/Flu). A sensitivity analysis was conducted 
on key variables.
RESULTS: The highest total treatment costs are in the 2-week AmBd/5FC arm 
followed by the 2-week oral regimen, the 1-week AmBd/5FC, then standard of care 
with the lowest cost in the 1-week AmBd/Flu arm. Compared to the lowest cost 
option the 1-week flucytosine course is most cost-effective at USD119/QALY. The 
cost impact analysis shows that the 1-week flucytosine course has an incremental 
cost of just over USD293 per patient per year compared to what is currently 
spent on standard of care. Sensitivity analyses suggest that the model is most 
sensitive to life expectancy and hospital costs, particularly infusion costs and 
length of stay.
CONCLUSIONS: The addition of flucytosine as induction therapy for the treatment 
of cryptococcal meningitis in patients infected with HIV is cost-effective when 
it is used as a 1-week AmBd/5FC regimen. Savings could be achieved with early 
discharge of patients as well as a reduction in the price of flucytosine.

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-021-06268-9
PMCID: PMC8025344
PMID: 33823842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: HD has participated as a member of the DSBM in 
the ACTG (Crytptococcal meningitis) and as an investigator in the ACTG- A 5225 
trial.


716. Pharmacogenomics J. 2021 Aug;21(4):476-483. doi: 10.1038/s41397-021-00225-9.
 Epub 2021 Apr 6.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of genotyping for HLA-B*15:02 in Indonesian patients 
with epilepsy using a generic model.

Yuliwulandari R(1)(2), Shin JG(3)(4), Kristin E(5), Suyatna FD(6), Prahasto 
ID(5), Prayuni K(7), Mahasirimongkol S(8), Cavallari LH(9), Mitropoulou C(10), 
Patrinos GP(11)(12), Hao J(13), Williams MS(14), Snyder SR(15).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, YARSI University, Jakarta 
Pusat, Indonesia. rika.yuliwulandari@yarsi.ac.id.
(2)Genetic Research Center, YARSI Research Institute, YARSI University, Jakarta 
Pusat, Indonesia. rika.yuliwulandari@yarsi.ac.id.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacogenomics Research Center, Inje 
University College of Medicine, Busan, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Inje University Busan Paik Hospital, 
Busan, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Pharmacology and Therapy, Faculty of Medicine, Gadjah Mada 
University, Yogyakarta, Indonesia.
(6)Department of Pharmacology & Therapeutic, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas 
Indonesia, Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia.
(7)Genetic Research Center, YARSI Research Institute, YARSI University, Jakarta 
Pusat, Indonesia.
(8)Medical Genetics Section, Department of Medical Sciences, Ministry of Public 
Health, Nonthaburi, Thailand.
(9)Department of Pharmacotherapy and Translational Research, University of 
Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.
(10)The Golden Helix Foundation, London, UK.
(11)Department of Pharmacy, University of Patras, Patras, Greece.
(12)Department of Pathology, United Arab Emirates University College of Medicine 
and Health Sciences, Al-Ain, UAE.
(13)Department of Population Health Sciences, Geisinger, Danville, PA, USA.
(14)Genomic Medicine Institute, Geisinger, Danville, PA, USA.
(15)Health Policy & Behavioral Sciences, Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.

Carbamazepine (CBZ)-induced Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal 
necrolysis (SJS/TEN) are strongly associated with the HLA-B*15:02 allele. 
Screening HLA-B*15:02 before CBZ administration might prevent CBZ-induced 
SJS/TEN by enabling clinicians to prescribe alternative therapy for positive 
patients. Similar to other Southeastern Asian countries, HLA-B*15:02 is highly 
prevalent in Indonesia. Therefore, we assessed the economic value of HLA-B*15:02 
screening before CBZ prescription to patients with epilepsy in Indonesia. A 
generic cost-effectiveness model and decision support tool, developed to enable 
users to perform an initial cost-effectiveness analysis from a healthcare 
provider/payer perspective, were used to assess the value of HLA-B*15:02 
genotyping. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of adopting universal 
HLA-B*15:02 screening was 656,444,671 Indonesian Rupiah (IDR)/quality-adjusted 
life year (QALY) gained for patients compared with 2,634,975,574 IDR/QALY gained 
for providing valproic acid (alternative drug) without screening. Thus, neither 
HLA-B*15:02 screening nor substitution with VPA meets the Indonesian threshold 
for cost effectiveness. However, the improved outcomes with this test in other 
Asian countries may inform the desirability of implementation in Indonesia even 
with suboptimal cost-effectiveness.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41397-021-00225-9
PMCID: PMC9059703
PMID: 33824430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interests The authors declare no 
conflict of interest regarding the information presented in this manuscript.


717. Ann Appl Stat. 2020 Jun;14(2):685-705. doi: 10.1214/19-aoas1294. Epub 2020
Jun  29.

ACCOUNTING FOR UNCERTAINTY ABOUT PAST VALUES IN PROBABILISTIC PROJECTIONS OF THE 
TOTAL FERTILITY RATE FOR MOST COUNTRIES.

Liu P(1), Raftery AE(2).

Author information:
(1)Peiran Liu is Ph.D. Student, Department of Statistics, University of 
Washington, Seattle.
(2)Adrian E. Raftery is Boeing International Professor of Statistics and 
Sociology, Department of Statistics, University of Washington, Seattle.

Since the 1940s, population projections have in most cases been produced using 
the deterministic cohort component method. However, in 2015, for the first time, 
in a major advance, the United Nations issued official probabilistic population 
projections for all countries based on Bayesian hierarchical models for total 
fertility and life expectancy. The estimates of these models and the resulting 
projections are conditional on the UN's official estimates of past values. 
However, these past values are themselves uncertain, particularly for the 
majority of the world's countries that do not have longstanding high-quality 
vital registration systems, when they rely on surveys and censuses with their 
own biases and measurement errors. This paper extends the UN model for 
projecting future total fertility rates to take account of uncertainty about 
past values. This is done by adding an additional level to the hierarchical 
model to represent the multiple data sources, in each case estimating their bias 
and measurement error variance. We assess the method by out-of-sample predictive 
validation. While the prediction intervals produced by the extant method (which 
does not account for this source of uncertainty) have somewhat less than nominal 
coverage, we find that our proposed method achieves closer to nominal coverage. 
The prediction intervals become wider for countries for which the estimates of 
past total fertility rates rely heavily on surveys rather than on vital 
registration data, especially in high fertility countries.

DOI: 10.1214/19-aoas1294
PMCID: PMC8020736
PMID: 33824692


718. Obes Surg. 2021 Jun;31(6):2841-2842. doi: 10.1007/s11695-021-05365-2. Epub
2021  Apr 6.

Missing Jejunal Perforation During Small Bowel Measurement in Patient Operated 
by Laparoscopic One-Anastomosis Gastric Bypass.

Ferrer-Márquez M(1), Ibáñez VM(2), Gil FR(3), Salmerón MJS(3), Sánchez MJT(3), 
Martínez Amo-Gámez A(4), Ferrer-Ayza M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bariatric Surgery (ObesidadAlmería), General Surgery, Hospital 
Mediterráneo, Almería, Spain. manuferrer78@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of Bariatric Surgery, General Surgery, Hospital Vistahermosa, 
Alicante, Spain.
(3)Department of Bariatric Surgery (ObesidadAlmería), General Surgery, Hospital 
Mediterráneo, Almería, Spain.
(4)Department of Anesthesia (ObesidadAlmería), Hospital Mediterráneo, Almería, 
Spain.

BACKGROUND: Obesity surgery is justified as it produces sustained weight loss, 
increases life expectancy, and reduces the complications of obesity. For this 
reason, increasing numbers of patients are undergoing this surgery [1]. 
Complications following surgical treatment of severe obesity vary based upon the 
procedure performed and, although it is currently below 7% in more experienced 
centers, it may increase in more complex surgeries (such as revision surgery) 
and can be as high as 40% [2, 3]. Patients with early postoperative 
complications may be managed in specialist centers by the bariatric surgeon 
during the hospital stay [4]. Missing bowel injury may occur primarily during 
insertion of a Veress needle and trocar, use of electrosurgery and laser beams, 
suturing, and adhesiolysis [5]. Less frequently, the bowel perforation is due to 
the measurement of the loop and goes unnoticed. Perforation of the intestines 
due to any reason is a severe condition that can clinically present with free 
intraabdominal air, purulent or even fecal peritonitis, and abdominal 
compartment syndrome [6]. High clinical suspicion is crucial for early 
diagnosis. Early recognition of bowel injury and early intervention is crucial 
to reduce its morbidity and mortality [5].
METHODS: We present a case of a 50-year-old male patient with a BMI of 36.1 
kg/m2, hypertension, and dyslipidemia who was proposed for bariatric surgery. A 
laparoscopic one-anastomosis gastric bypass (OAGB) was performed with no 
intraoperative incidents. Few hours after the surgery, the patient manifests 
intense abdominal pain and tachycardia (120 bpm) so we decided to order an 
abdominal CT scan that showed signs of jejunal perforation (pneumoperitoneum, 
oral contrast extravasation, and small air bubbles next to the jejunum wall).
RESULTS: Emergency laparoscopy was done and showed generalized peritonitis 
caused by a 4-mm perforation in the mesenteric border of the jejunum with 
everted mucosa that was located 150 cm from the loop of Treitz. We decided to 
place three infraumbilical trocars to help us with washing, viewing, and 
surgical repair. We performed a 2-0 barbed simple suture of the perforation and 
extensive washing of the entire cavity with 10 L of serum. We left three drains. 
The patient made an uneventful recovery and was discharged 72 h after surgery 
with an established oral diet.
CONCLUSIONS: Missing intestinal perforation is an uncommon injury during 
bariatric surgery, but its early diagnosis is important to avoid endangering the 
patient's life. Simple postoperative tachycardia in obese patients should be 
taken seriously as it is a warning signal. Laparoscopic reoperation in these 
early diagnosed cases is safe and effective, since it allows visualization and 
washing of the entire cavity. Bowel injuries, which may occur as a result of the 
insertion of an insufflation needle or trocar, are a rare complication of 
laparoscopy. In the case we present, the perforation occurred during the small 
bowel measurement so we insist on the extreme caution that surgeons must take 
during every detail of the surgical technique. The use of atraumatic forceps, 
handling of the bowel strictly at the antimesenteric side, and the infusion of 
sufficient methylene blue in the anastomosis testing are gestures that can help 
reduce the risk.

DOI: 10.1007/s11695-021-05365-2
PMID: 33825151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. J Med Chem. 2021 Apr 22;64(8):4947-4959. doi: 10.1021/acs.jmedchem.1c00032.
Epub  2021 Apr 7.

Exendin 4-Hapten Conjugate Capable of Binding with Endogenous Antibodies for 
Peptide Half-life Extension and Exerting Long-Acting Hypoglycemic Activity.

Dai S(1), Hong H(1), Zhou K(1), Zhao K(1), Xie Y(1), Li C(1), Shi J(1), Zhou 
Z(1), Nie L(2), Wu Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry & Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 214122 Wuxi, China.
(2)Hisun Biopharmaceutical Co., Limited, 8 Hisun Road, Xialian Village, Xukou 
Town, Fuyang District, 311404 Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.

Hapten-specific endogenous antibodies are naturally occurring antibodies present 
in human blood. Herein, we investigated a new strategy in which small-molecule 
haptens were utilized as naturally occurring antibody binders for peptide 
half-life extension. The glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist exendin 4 was 
site-specifically functionalized with the dinitrophenyl (DNP) hapten at the 
C-terminus via sortase A-mediated ligation. The resulting Ex4-DNP conjugates 
retained GLP-1 receptor activation potency in vitro and had a similar in vivo 
acute glucose-lowering effect comparable to that of native Ex4. Pharmacokinetic 
studies and hypoglycemic duration tests demonstrated that the Ex4-DNP conjugates 
displayed significantly elongated half-lives and improved long-acting 
antidiabetic activity in the presence of endogenous anti-DNP antibodies. In 
chronic treatment studies, once-daily administration of optimal conjugate 7 
demonstrated more beneficial effects without prominent toxicity compared with 
Ex4. This strategy provides a new approach and represents an alternative to the 
well-established peptide-Fc fusion strategy to improve the peptide half-life and 
the therapeutic efficacy.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jmedchem.1c00032
PMID: 33825469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. JAMA Netw Open. 2021 Apr 1;4(4):e214846. doi:
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2021.4846.

Cost-effectiveness of Atezolizumab Plus Bevacizumab vs Sorafenib for Patients 
With Unresectable or Metastatic Hepatocellular Carcinoma.

Zhang X(1), Wang J(2), Shi J(1), Jia X(1), Dang S(1), Wang W(1).

