

779. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2021 Nov 1;43(8):e1082-e1087. doi: 
10.1097/MPH.0000000000002171.

Detection of Renal Insufficiency in a Cohort of Patients With Beta-thalassemia 
Major Using Cystatin-C.

Hamdy M(1), Shaheen I(2), El-Gammal ZM(2), Ramadan YM(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pediatrics.
(2)Clinical and Chemical Pathology, Cairo University, Cairo, Egypt.

With increased life expectancy among patients with beta-thalassemia major (β-TM) 
renal insufficiency has been frequently noted because of the persistence of 
anemia, iron overload and some drug side effects. Serum creatinine becomes 
elevated in late stage of kidney affection. Cystatin-C is more sensitive 
biomarker for kidney dysfunction. Our aim was to measure Cystatin-C serum level 
among patients with β-TM as a marker of early nephropathy. Serum Cystatin-C was 
measured in 94 patients with β-TM using Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay 
(ELISA) and correlated to other clinical, laboratory and radiologic data. 
Glomerular hyperfiltration was observed in 30.8% while Cystatin-C was elevated 
in 56.3% of β-TM. Patients having high serum Cystatin-C were older in age and 
having higher serum levels of aspartate aminotransferases and urea. Cystatin-C 
level was positively correlated with serum creatinine and urea and negatively 
correlated with glomerular filtration rate. Periodic assessment of Cystatin-C in 
patients with β-TM is recommended for early diagnosis of renal dysfunction 
especially during drug dosing prescription aiming to obtain the maximum 
effectiveness and safety. Controlling anemia by maintaining appropriate 
hemoglobin level with close monitoring of iron overload are also recommended to 
preserve renal function among β-TM patients.

Copyright © 2021 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/MPH.0000000000002171
PMID: 33843816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


780. Neurotherapeutics. 2021 Apr;18(2):827-844. doi: 10.1007/s13311-021-01046-1.
Epub  2021 Apr 12.

Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation as a Therapeutic and Probe in 
Schizophrenia: Examining the Role of Neuroimaging and Future Directions.

Brandt SJ(1), Oral HY(1), Arellano-Bravo C(1), Plawecki MH(1), Hummer TA(1), 
Francis MM(2).

Author information:
(1)Indiana University School of Medicine, Department of Psychiatry, 355W 16 St., 
Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(2)Indiana University School of Medicine, Department of Psychiatry, 355W 16 St., 
Indianapolis, IN, USA. mmfranci@iupui.edu.

Schizophrenia is a complex condition associated with perceptual disturbances, 
decreased motivation and affect, and disrupted cognition. Individuals living 
with schizophrenia may experience myriad poor outcomes, including impairment in 
independent living and function as well as decreased life expectancy. Though 
existing treatments may offer benefit, many individuals still experience 
treatment resistant and disabling symptoms. In light of the negative outcomes 
associated with schizophrenia and the limitations in currently available 
treatments, there is a significant need for novel therapeutic interventions. 
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a non-invasive brain 
stimulation technique that can modulate the activity of discrete cortical 
regions, allowing direct manipulation of local brain activation and indirect 
manipulation of the target's associated neural networks. rTMS has been studied 
in schizophrenia for the treatment of auditory hallucinations, negative 
symptoms, and cognitive deficits, with mixed results. The field's inability to 
arrive at a consensus on the use rTMS in schizophrenia has stemmed from a 
variety of issues, perhaps most notably the significant heterogeneity amongst 
existing trials. In addition, it is likely that factors specific to 
schizophrenia, rather than the rTMS itself, have presented barriers to the 
interpretation of existing results. However, advances in approaches to rTMS as a 
biologic probe and therapeutic, many of which include the integration of 
neuroimaging with rTMS, offer hope that this technology may still play a role in 
improving the understanding and treatment of schizophrenia.

© 2021. The American Society for Experimental NeuroTherapeutics, Inc.

DOI: 10.1007/s13311-021-01046-1
PMCID: PMC8423934
PMID: 33844154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Oncologist. 2021 Aug;26(8):e1480-e1482. doi: 10.1002/onco.13788. Epub 2021
Apr  30.

Prevalence and Tolerance of Prognostic Uncertainty Among Thoracic Oncologists.

Habib AR(1)(2), Chen R(1), Magnavita ES(1), Jaung T(1), Awad MM(3), Odejide 
O(1), Abel GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Population Sciences, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(3)Lowe Center for Thoracic Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.

We undertook a cross-sectional survey of a random sample of thoracic oncologists 
from the American Society of Clinical Oncology clinical directory to 
characterize whether prognostic uncertainty has increased and if tolerance of 
uncertainty is associated with prognostic discussion practices. We also assessed 
the Physicians' Reactions to Uncertainty Scale and presented a vignette about an 
incurable patient with uncertain life expectancy. One hundred and ninety-two of 
438 surveys (43.8%) were received. Of the respondents, 52.1% agreed "there is 
more prognostic uncertainty in the management of lung cancer now than 10 years 
ago," and 37.4% noted difficulty "staying up-to-date." In multivariable 
analyses, physician-reported anxiety about uncertainty (p = .05) and reluctance 
to disclose uncertainty (p = .04) were inversely associated with reporting 
having prognostic discussions with most patients. For the vignette, 92.1% 
reported they would discuss incurability, but only 76.3% said they would discuss 
the patient's life expectancy. Our data suggest prognostic uncertainty has 
increased in thoracic oncology and oncologists' tolerance of uncertainty may 
affect discussion practices.

© 2021 AlphaMed Press.

DOI: 10.1002/onco.13788
PMCID: PMC8342571
PMID: 33844365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Rev Chilena Infectol. 2021 Feb;38(1):7-14. doi:
10.4067/S0716-10182021000100007.

[Cost-effectiveness of ceftazidime/avibactam versus colistin + meropenem for 
treatment of carbapenemic-resistant enterobacteria infections in Chile].

[Article in Spanish]

Gutiérrez A M(1), Fandiño C(1).

Author information:
(1)Pfizer Chile S.A. laboratorio fabricante del principio activo 
ceftazidima/avibactam, Chile.

BACKGROUND: Ceftazidime-avibactam (C/A), has shown reduction in mortality rates 
and risk of nephrotoxicity, compared to colistin, conventional therapy.
AIM: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of C/A versus colistin + meropenem in 
the treatment of infections due to carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE) 
in Chile.
METHODS: An economic decision tree type model was adapted. The perspective of 
the public payer was used with a time horizon of 30 days and extrapolation to 
life expectancy. The clinical information was derived from an observational 
study. Medication and care costs correspond to local reports. The results are 
expressed as incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) per life year gained 
(LYG) and per quality adjusted life year (QALY) in Chilean pesos and US dollars 
(US$ 1.00 = $792.2218).
RESULTS: 8.65 and 6.48 LYGs and 6.44 and 4.27 QALYs were obtained, for C/A and 
colistin + meropenem, respectively. The estimated ICER for C/A was $940,488 
(US$1,187.2) per AVG and $938,715 (US$1,184.9) per QALY.
DISCUSSION: Given the lack of publications or evidence, the model is based on an 
observational study. C/A would reduce the death rate and increase LYGs and 
QALYs, resulting in a cost-effective alternative vs. colistin + meropenem for 
CRE.

DOI: 10.4067/S0716-10182021000100007
PMID: 33844786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Clin Immunol. 2021 May;226:108725. doi: 10.1016/j.clim.2021.108725. Epub
2021  Apr 9.

The microbiota-mediated dietary and nutritional interventions for COVID-19.

Gasmi A(1), Tippairote T(2), Mujawdiya PK(3), Peana M(4), Menzel A(5), Dadar 
M(6), Benahmed AG(7), Bjørklund G(8).

Author information:
(1)Société Francophone de Nutrithérapie et de Nutrigénétique Appliquée, 
Villeurbanne, France.
(2)Doctor of Philosophy Program in Nutrition, Faculty of Medicine, Ramathibodi 
Hospital and Institute of Nutrition, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand; 
Thailand Institute for Functional Medicine, Bangkok, Thailand.
(3)Birla Institute of Technology and Science - Pilani, Hyderabad, India.
(4)Department of Chemistry and Pharmacy, University of Sassari, Italy.
(5)Laboratoires Réunis, Junglinster, Luxembourg.
(6)Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute, Agricultural Research, Education 
and Extension Organization (AREEO), Karaj, Iran.
(7)Académie Internationale de Médecine Dentaire Intégrative, Paris, France.
(8)Council for Nutritional and Environmental Medicine, Mo i Rana, Norway. 
Electronic address: bjorklund@conem.org.

Worldwide, scientists are looking for specific treatment for COVID-19. Apart 
from the antiviral approach, the interventions to support healthy immune 
responses to the virus are feasible through diet, nutrition, and lifestyle 
approaches. This narrative review explores the recent studies on dietary, 
nutritional, and lifestyle interventions that influence the microbiota-mediated 
immunomodulatory effects against viral infections. Cumulative studies reported 
that the airway microbiota and SARS-CoV-2 leverage each other and determine the 
pathogen-microbiota-host responses. Cigarette smoking can disrupt microbiota 
abundance. The composition and diversification of intestinal microbiota 
influence the airway microbiota and the innate and adaptive immunity, which 
require supports from the balance of macro- and micronutrients from the diet. 
Colorful vegetables supplied fermentable prebiotics and anti-inflammatory, 
antioxidant phytonutrients. Fermented foods and beverages support intestinal 
microbiota. In sensitive individuals, the avoidance of the high immunoreactive 
food antigens contributes to antiviral immunity. This review suggests 
associations between airway and intestinal microbiota, antiviral host immunity, 
and the influences of dietary, nutritional, and lifestyle interventions to 
prevent the clinical course toward severe COVID-19.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clim.2021.108725
PMCID: PMC8032598
PMID: 33845194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare they have no actual or 
potential competing financial interests.


784. J Prev Med Public Health. 2021 Mar;54(2):103-109. doi: 10.3961/jpmph.20.335.
 Epub 2021 Feb 1.

The Burden of Stroke in Kurdistan Province, Iran From 2011 to 2017.

Moradi S(1), Moradi G(1), Piroozi B(1).

Author information:
(1)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Research Institute for Health 
Development, Kurdistan University of Medical Sciences, Sanandaj, Iran.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to calculate the burden of stroke in 
Kurdistan Province, Iran between 2011 and 2017.
METHODS: Incidence data extracted from the hospital information system of 
Kurdistan Province and death data extracted from the system of registration and 
classification of causes of death were used in a cross-sectional study. The 
World Health Organization method was used to calculate disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs).
RESULTS: The burden of stroke increased from 2453.44 DALYs in 2011 to 5269.68 in 
2017, the years of life lost increased from 2381.57 in 2011 to 5109.68 in 2017, 
and the years of healthy life lost due to disability increased from 71.87 in 
2011 to 159.99 in 2017. The DALYs of ischaemic stroke exceeded those of 
haemorrhagic stroke. The burden of disease, new cases, and deaths doubled during 
the study period. The age-standardised incidence rate of ischaemic stroke and 
haemorrhagic stroke in 2017 was 21.72 and 20.72 per 100 000 population, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The burden of stroke is increasing in Kurdistan Province. Since 
health services in Iran are based on treatment, steps are needed to revise the 
current treatment services for stroke and to improve the quality of services. 
Policy-makers and managers of the health system need to plan to reduce the known 
risk factors for stroke in the community. In addition to preventive 
interventions, efficient and up-to-date interventions are recommended for the 
rapid diagnosis and treatment of stroke patients in hospitals. Along with 
therapeutic interventions, preventive interventions can help reduce the stroke 
burden.

DOI: 10.3961/jpmph.20.335
PMCID: PMC8046604
PMID: 33845530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST The authors have no 
conflicts of interest associated with the material presented in this paper.


785. Waste Manag Res. 2022 Feb;40(2):218-226. doi: 10.1177/0734242X211003946.
Epub  2021 Apr 12.

Environmental and energy performances of the Italian municipal solid waste 
incineration system in a life cycle perspective.

Sisani F(1), Maalouf A(2), Di Maria F(3).

Author information:
(1)LAR5 Laboratory, Dipartimento di Ingegneria, University of Perugia, Perugia, 
Italy.
(2)Earth Engineering Center, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(3)LAR Laboratory, Dipartimento di Ingegneria, University of Perugia, Perugia, 
Italy.

The environmental and energy performances of the Italian municipal solid waste 
incineration (MSWI) system was investigated by a life cycle assessment approach. 
On average the 39 MSWIs operating in Italy in 2018 treated about 6,000,000 Mg of 
residual municipal solid waste (RMSW) recovering on average from 448 kWh Mg-1 
RMSW to 762 kWh Mg-1 RMSW of electricity and from 732 kWh Mg-1 RMSW to 1102 kWh 
Mg-1 RMSW of heat. The average quantity of CO2eq Mg-1 RMSW emitted ranged from 
about 800 up to about 1000 depending on the size and on the energy recovery 
scheme of the facility. Avoided impacts (i.e., negative values) were detected 
for the kg PM2,5eq Mg-1 RMSW and for human health (disability-adjusted life year 
Mg-1 RMSW). The determination of the hybrid primary energy index (MJ Mg-1 RMSW) 
indicated that mainly large size facilities and those operating according to a 
power and heat energy recovery scheme are effectively able to replace other 
primary energies by the exploitation of the lower heating values of the RMSW.

DOI: 10.1177/0734242X211003946
PMID: 33845709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Curr Top Med Chem. 2021;21(12):1052-1066. doi: 
10.2174/1568026621666210412152428.

Natural Bioactives as Potential Therapeutic Modalities Against NeuroAIDS.

Ahmed M(1), Iqubal A(2), Baboota S(1), Ali J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, 
Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi 110062, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, 
Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi 110062, India.

With the introduction of antiretroviral therapy, the worldwide AIDS-related 
deaths have decreased, and life expectancy has increased, including the 
prevalence of AIDS-related neurological disorders or neuroAIDS. HIV-associated 
neurocognitive disorders such as mild neurocognitive disorder and asymptomatic 
neurocognitive impairment have largely remained stable or increased among the 
HIV-infected individuals in the combination antiretroviral therapy era. The 
emerging evidence that antiretrovirals with high CNS penetration effectiveness 
score contribute to the neurotoxicity and HIV-associated neurocognitive 
disorders has ushered the search for natural, nontoxic bioactive constituents 
having pre-established neuroprotective, anti-inflammatory, and restorative 
neurocognitive activity. In this review, we have highlighted the probable 
mechanism of neuroAIDS infection, the problem with the existing antiretroviral 
therapy, along with various bioactive constituents with in vivo, in vitro, or ex 
vivo evidence of their neuroprotective activity that can be used as an adjuvant 
with the current combination antiretroviral therapy regimen or can even serve as 
an alternate to the antiretrovirals for treatment of HIV associated 
neurocognitive disorder.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1568026621666210412152428
PMID: 33845745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. BMC Infect Dis. 2021 Apr 12;21(1):343. doi: 10.1186/s12879-021-06026-6.

Impact of COVID-19 infection on life expectancy, premature mortality, and DALY 
in Maharashtra, India.

Vasishtha G(1), Mohanty SK(2), Mishra US(3), Dubey M(4), Sahoo U(5).

Author information:
(1)International Institute for Population Sciences, Govandi Station Road, 
Deonar, Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400088, India. guruvasishth15@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Fertility Studies, International Institute for Population 
Sciences, Mumbai, India.
(3)Centre for Development Studies, Prashant Nagar, Medical College P.O, Ullor 
Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, India.
(4)Centre for Chronic Disease Control, New Delhi, India.
(5)International Institute for Population Sciences, Govandi Station Road, 
Deonar, Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400088, India.

BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 infections and deaths have largely been uneven within 
and between countries. With 17% of the world's population, India has so far had 
13% of global COVID-19 infections and 8.5% of deaths. Maharashtra accounting for 
9% of India's population, is the worst affected state, with 19% of infections 
and 33% of total deaths in the country until 23rd December 2020. Though a number 
of studies have examined the vulnerability to and spread of COVID-19 and its 
effect on mortality, no attempt has been made to understand its impact on 
mortality in the states of India.
METHOD: Using data from multiple sources and under the assumption that COVID-19 
deaths are additional deaths in the population, this paper examined the impact 
of the disease on premature mortality, loss of life expectancy, years of 
potential life lost (YPLL), and disability-adjusted life years (DALY) in 
Maharashtra. Descriptive statistics, a set of abridged life tables, YPLL, and 
DALY were used in the analysis. Estimates of mortality indices were compared 
pre- and during COVID-19.
RESULT: COVID-19 attributable deaths account for 5.3% of total deaths in the 
state and have reduced the life expectancy at birth by 0.8 years, from 
73.2 years in the pre-COVID-19 period to 72.4 years by the end of 2020. If 
COVID-19 attributable deaths increase to 10% of total deaths, life expectancy at 
birth will likely reduce by 1.4 years. The probability of death in 20-64 years 
of age (the prime working-age group) has increased from 0.15 to 0.16 due to 
COVID-19. There has been 1.06 million additional loss of years (YPLL) in the 
state, and DALY due to COVID-19 has been estimated to be 6 per thousand.
CONCLUSION: COVID-19 has increased premature mortality, YPLL, and DALY and has 
reduced life expectancy at every age in Maharashtra.

DOI: 10.1186/s12879-021-06026-6
PMCID: PMC8040360
PMID: 33845774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they do not have any 
competing interest.


788. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2021 Jun;61(6):971-979. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2021.02.039. Epub 2021 Apr 10.

Clinical Benefit, Harm, and Cost Effectiveness of Screening Men for Peripheral 
Artery Disease: A Markov Model Based on the VIVA Trial.

Lindholt JS(1), Søgaard R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery, Odense University 
Hospital, Odense, Denmark; Department of Vascular Surgery, Viborg Hospital, 
Viborg, Denmark. Electronic address: Jes.sanddal.lindholt@rsyd.dk.
(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, 
Denmark; Department of Public Health, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: Although screening for peripheral arterial disease (PAD) seems 
obvious due to its two to three times increased mortality, high prevalence in 
the elderly, ease of detection, and relatively harmless prevention, the evidence 
is sparse.
METHODS: A Markov decision model was created to model the lifetime effectiveness 
and cost effectiveness of general population PAD screening and relevant 
intervention in 65 year old men. The model was informed by original estimates 
from the VIVA trial data except for ankle brachial systolic blood pressure index 
test accuracy, quality of life, and background mortality, which were adopted 
from the literature. A Markov model was designed for 65 year old men, who were 
distributed in the starting states of no/detected/undetected PAD. The main 
outcomes were life years, quality adjusted life years, and costs of healthcare.
RESULTS: Screening for PAD reduced the rates of amputations and stroke by 10.9% 
and 2.4%, respectively, while it increased the rates of revascularisation, acute 
myocardial infarction, and major bleeding by 5.5%, 7.1%, and 4.3% respectively. 
The overall life expectancy was increased by 14 days per invited subject. The 
cost per life year/quality adjusted life year was estimated at €16 717/€20 673. 
On the addition of low dose rivaroxaban reduced the costs per life year gained 
by 40%. If the model ran for only five follow up years, screening reduced 
relative mortality by 1.71%, suggesting PAD screening accounts for one fourth of 
the reported overall 7% relative mortality risk reduction of combined abdominal 
aortic aneurysm, PAD, and hypertension screening.
CONCLUSION: Screening of men for PAD is likely to be both clinically effective 
and cost effective in a lifetime perspective.

Copyright © 2021 European Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2021.02.039
PMID: 33846075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Acta Derm Venereol. 2021 Apr 22;101(4):adv00433. doi: 10.2340/00015555-3796.

Global Epidemiology of Urticaria: Increasing Burden among Children, Females and 
Low-income Regions.

Peck G(1), Hashim MJ, Shaughnessy C, Muddasani S, Elsayed NA, Fleischer AB Jr.

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine, University of Cincinnati, 45242 Cincinnati, USA. E-mail: 
peckgl@mail.uc.edu.

Urticaria has a high socioeconomic burden worldwide. However, the global 
epidemiology of urticaria and its geographical and temporal trends are not well 
studied. Using the Global Burden of Disease dataset, the aim of this study was 
to analyse the age-standardized prevalence, incidence, years lived with 
disability, and mean duration of urticaria in 195 countries from 1990 to 2017. 
In addition, the relationship between socioeconomic development and urticaria 
was evaluat-ed. The global prevalence of urticaria in 2017 was 86 million 
people. Females and children aged 1-4 years were more commonly affected than 
males and adults, respectively: these differences were outside the 95% 
uncertainty intervals. Regression analyses show-ed that a lower gross domestic 
product per capita was associated with a higher prevalence and incidence of 
urticaria (p < 0.001). The global prevalence of urticaria, incidence, and years 
lived with disability have remained stable from 1990 to 2017.

DOI: 10.2340/00015555-3796
PMCID: PMC9364256
PMID: 33847367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest. ABF is a consultant for 
Boerhringer-Ingelheim, Incyte, Qurient, SCM Lifescience, and Syneos. He is an 
investigator for Galderma and Trevi. The other authors have no conflicts of 
interest to declare.


790. J Morphol. 2021 Aug;282(8):1141-1157. doi: 10.1002/jmor.21359. Epub 2021 May
4.

The emergence of a complex pore-canal system in the dermal skeleton of 
Tremataspis (Osteostraci).

Bremer O(1), Qu Q(2)(3), Sanchez S(1)(4), Märss T(5), Fernandez V(6), Blom H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Organismal Biology, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Cellular Stress Biology, Innovation Center for Cell 
Signal Network, School of Life Sciences, Xiamen University, Xiamen, China.
(4)European Synchrotron Radiation Facility, Grenoble, France.
(5)Department of Geology, Tallinn University of Technology, Tallinn, Estonia.
(6)Imaging and Analysis Centre, Natural History Museum, London, UK.

Thyestiids are a group of osteostracans (sister-group to jawed vertebrates) 
ranging in time from the early Silurian to Middle Devonian. Tremataspis is 
unique among thyestiids in having a continuous mesodentine and enameloid cover 
on its dermal elements, and an embedded pore-canal system divided into lower and 
upper parts by a perforated septum. The origin of this upper mesh canal system 
and its potential homology to similar canal systems of other osteostracans has 
remained a matter of debate. To investigate this, we use synchrotron radiation 
microtomography data of four species of Tremataspis and three other thyestiid 
genera. Procephalaspis oeselensis lacks an upper mesh canal system entirely, but 
Aestiaspis viitaensis has partially enclosed upper canals formed between 
slightly modified tubercles that generally only cover separate pore fields. 
Further modification of tubercles in Dartmuthia gemmifera forms a more 
extensive, semi-enclosed upper mesh canal system that overlies an extensive 
perforated septum, similar to that found in Tremataspis. Lower mesh canals in P. 
oeselensis are radially arranged and buried tubercles indicate a continuous 
growth and addition of dermal hard tissues. These features are lacking to 
varying degrees in the other investigated thyestiids, and Tremataspis probably 
had a determinate growth accompanied by a single mineralization phase of its 
dermal hard tissues. The previously proposed homology between the semi-enclosed 
upper canal system in Dartmuthia to the pore-canal system in Tremataspis is 
supported in this study, but the suggested homologies between these canals and 
other parts of the thyestiid vasculature to those in non-thyestiid osteostracans 
remain unclear. This study shows that three-dimensional modeling of 
high-resolution data can provide histological and structural details that can 
help clarify homology issues and elucidate the evolution of dermal hard tissues 
in osteostracans. In extension, this can give insights into how these tissues 
relate to those found among jawed vertebrates.

© 2021 The Authors. Journal of Morphology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jmor.21359
PMID: 33848014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Nucleic Acids Res. 2021 May 7;49(8):4294-4307. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkab250.

Characteristic chemical probing patterns of loop motifs improve prediction 
accuracy of RNA secondary structures.

Cao J(1), Xue Y(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua-Peking Joint Center for Life Sciences, 
Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Structural Biology, Tsinghua University, 
Beijing 100084, China.

RNA structures play a fundamental role in nearly every aspect of cellular 
physiology and pathology. Gaining insights into the functions of RNA molecules 
requires accurate predictions of RNA secondary structures. However, the existing 
thermodynamic folding models remain less accurate than desired, even when 
chemical probing data, such as selective 2'-hydroxyl acylation analyzed by 
primer extension (SHAPE) reactivities, are used as restraints. Unlike most 
SHAPE-directed algorithms that only consider SHAPE restraints for base pairing, 
we extract two-dimensional structural features encoded in SHAPE data and 
establish robust relationships between characteristic SHAPE patterns and loop 
motifs of various types (hairpin, internal, and bulge) and lengths (2-11 
nucleotides). Such characteristic SHAPE patterns are closely related to the 
sugar pucker conformations of loop residues. Based on these patterns, we propose 
a computational method, SHAPELoop, which refines the predicted results of the 
existing methods, thereby further improving their prediction accuracy. In 
addition, SHAPELoop can provide information about local or global structural 
rearrangements (including pseudoknots) and help researchers to easily test their 
hypothesized secondary structures.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic 
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkab250
PMCID: PMC8096282
PMID: 33849076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Rejuvenation Res. 2021 Oct;24(5):345-353. doi: 10.1089/rej.2020.2403. Epub
2021  May 19.

Effect of Long-Term Treatment with C(60) Fullerenes on the Lifespan and Health 
Status of CBA/Ca Mice.

Shytikov D(1)(2), Shytikova I(1)(2), Rohila D(2), Kulaga A(2)(3), Dubiley T(1), 
Pishel I(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)D.F. Chebotarev State Institute of Gerontology NAMS of Ukraine, Kyiv, 
Ukraine.
(2)International Longevity Alliance, 19 Avenue Jean Jaurès, Sceaux, France.
(3)Systems Biology of Aging Group, Institute of Biochemistry of the Romanian 
Academy, Bucharest, Romania.

Several studies claimed C60 fullerenes as a prospective geroprotector drug due 
to their ability to capture free radicals effectively and caused a profound 
interest in C60 in life extension communities. Multiple additives are already 
sold for human consumption despite a small body of evidence supporting the 
beneficial effects of fullerenes on the lifespan. To test the effect of C60 
fullerenes on lifespan and healthspan, we administered C60 fullerenes dissolved 
in virgin olive oil orally to 10-12 months old CBA/Ca mice of both genders for 7 
months and assessed their survival. To uncover C60 and virgin olive effects, we 
established two control groups: mice treated with virgin olive oil (vehicle) and 
mice treated with drinking water. To measure healthspan, we conducted daily 
monitoring of health condition and lethality and monthly bodyweight 
measurements. We also assessed physical activity, glucose metabolism, and 
hematological parameters every 3 months. We did not observe health deterioration 
in the animals treated with C60 compared with the control groups. Treatment of 
mice with C60 fullerenes resulted in an increased lifespan of males and females 
compared with the olive oil-treated animals. The lifespan of C60-treated mice 
was similar to the mice treated with water. These results suggest that the 
lifespan-extending effect in C60-treated mice appears due to the protective 
effect of fullerenes in opposition to the negative effect of olive oil in CBA/Ca 
mice.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2020.2403
PMID: 33849306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Expert Rev Proteomics. 2021 Feb;18(2):119-135. doi: 
10.1080/14789450.2021.1913062. Epub 2021 Apr 14.

Proteomic characterization of the human lens and Cataractogenesis.

Cantrell LS(1), Schey KL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, United 
States.

INTRODUCTION: The goal of this review is to highlight the triumphs and frontiers 
in measurement of the lens proteome as it relates to onset of age-related 
nuclear cataract. As global life expectancy increases, so too does the frequency 
of age-related nuclear cataracts. Molecular therapeutics do not exist for delay 
or relief of cataract onset in humans. Since lens fiber cells are incapable of 
protein synthesis after initial maturation, age-related changes in proteome 
composition and post-translational modification accumulation can be measured 
with various techniques. Several of these modifications have been associated 
with cataract onset.
AREAS COVERED: We discuss the impact of long-lived proteins on the lens proteome 
and lens homeostasis as well as proteomic techniques that may be used to measure 
proteomes at various levels of proteomic specificity and spatial resolution.
EXPERT OPINION: There is clear evidence that several proteome modifications are 
correlated with cataract formation. Past studies should be enhanced with 
cutting-edge, spatially resolved mass spectrometry techniques to enhance the 
specificity and sensitivity of modification detection as it relates to cataract 
formation.

DOI: 10.1080/14789450.2021.1913062
PMCID: PMC9227965
PMID: 33849365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interest The authors have no 
relevant affiliations or financial involvement with any organization or entity 
with a financial interest in or financial conflict with the subject matter or 
materials discussed in the manuscript. This includes employment, consultancies, 
honoraria, stock ownership or options, expert testimony, grants or patents 
received or pending, or royalties.


794. BMC Infect Dis. 2021 Apr 13;21(1):345. doi: 10.1186/s12879-021-06017-7.

European data sources for computing burden of (potential) vaccine-preventable 
diseases in ageing adults.

Méroc E(1), Fröberg J(2), Almasi T(3), Winje BA(4), Orrico-Sánchez A(5), Steens 
A(4), McDonald SA(6), Bollaerts K(7), Knol MJ(6).

Author information:
(1)P95 Epidemiology and Pharmacovigilance, Koning Leopold III laan 1, 3001, 
Leuven, Belgium. estelle.meroc@p-95.com.
(2)Radboud University Medical Center, Radboud Institute for Molecular Life 
Sciences, Laboratory of Medical Immunology, Section Paediatric Infectious 
Diseases, Geert Grooteplein 21, 6525 EZ, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
(3)Syreon Research Institute, Mexikoi str. 65/A, Budapest, 1142, Hungary.
(4)Department of Infection Control and Vaccine, Norwegian Institute of Public 
Health, PO Box 222, Skøyen, 0213, Oslo, Norway.
(5)Vaccines Research Unit, FISABIO (the Valencia Foundation for the Promotion of 
Health and Biomedical Research), Av. Catalunya, 21, 46020, Valencia, Spain.
(6)Centre for Infectious Disease Control, National Institute for Public Health 
and the Environment (RIVM), PO Box 1, 3720 BA, Bilthoven, the Netherlands.
(7)P95 Epidemiology and Pharmacovigilance, Koning Leopold III laan 1, 3001, 
Leuven, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: To guide decision-making on immunisation programmes for ageing 
adults in Europe, one of the aims of the Vaccines and InfecTious diseases in the 
Ageing popuLation (IMI2-VITAL) project is to assess the burden of disease (BoD) 
of (potentially) vaccine-preventable diseases ((P)VPD). We aimed to identify the 
available data sources to calculate the BoD of (P)VPD in participating VITAL 
countries and to pinpoint data gaps. Based on epidemiological criteria and 
vaccine availability, we prioritized (P) VPD caused by Extra-intestinal 
pathogenic Escherichia coli (ExPEC), norovirus, respiratory syncytial virus, 
Staphylococcus aureus, and pneumococcal pneumonia.
METHODS: We conducted a survey on available data (e.g. incidence, mortality, 
disability-adjusted life years (DALY), quality-adjusted life years (QALY), 
sequelae, antimicrobial resistance (AMR), etc.) among national experts from 
European countries, and carried out five pathogen-specific literature reviews by 
searching MEDLINE for peer-reviewed publications published between 2009 and 
2019.
RESULTS: Morbidity and mortality data were generally available for all five 
diseases, while summary BoD estimates were mostly lacking. Available data were 
not always stratified by age and risk group, which is especially important when 
calculating BoD for ageing adults. AMR data were available in several countries 
for S. aureus and ExPEC.
CONCLUSION: This study provides an exhaustive overview of the available data 
sources and data gaps for the estimation of BoD of five (P) VPD in ageing adults 
in the EU/EAA, which is useful to guide pathogen-specific BoD studies and 
contribute to calculation of (P)VPDs BoD.

DOI: 10.1186/s12879-021-06017-7
PMCID: PMC8042717
PMID: 33849461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: E.M., J.F., T.A., B.A.W., A.S., S.A.M., K.B., 
M.J.K. have no competing interest. A.O.S. has received travel grants to attend 
meetings sponsored by pharmaceutical companies and has been principal 
investigator in studies sponsored by Sanofi Pasteur and Merck Sharp & Dohme.


795. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2021 Apr 13;16(1):177. doi: 10.1186/s13023-021-01818-0.

Assessing the integrity of auditory processing and sensory memory in adults with 
cystinosis (CTNS gene mutations).

Francisco AA(1), Berruti AS(2), Kaskel FJ(2), Foxe JJ(2)(3)(4), Molholm 
S(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Van Etten 
Building, Suite 1C, 1225 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx, NY, 10461, USA. 
ana.alvesfrancisco@einsteinmed.org.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Van Etten 
Building, Suite 1C, 1225 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx, NY, 10461, USA.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Rose F. Kennedy Center, Albert Einstein College 
of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, The Ernest J. Del Monde Institute for 
Neuroscience, School of Medicine and Dentistry, University of Rochester, 
Rochester, NY, USA.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Van Etten 
Building, Suite 1C, 1225 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx, NY, 10461, USA. 
sophie.molholm@einsteinmed.org.
(6)Department of Neuroscience, Rose F. Kennedy Center, Albert Einstein College 
of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA. sophie.molholm@einsteinmed.org.
(7)Department of Neuroscience, The Ernest J. Del Monde Institute for 
Neuroscience, School of Medicine and Dentistry, University of Rochester, 
Rochester, NY, USA. sophie.molholm@einsteinmed.org.

BACKGROUND: Cystinosis, a rare lysosomal storage disease, is characterized by 
cystine crystallization and accumulation within tissues and organs, including 
the kidneys and brain. Its impact on neural function appears mild relative to 
its effects on other organs, but therapeutic advances have led to substantially 
increased life expectancy, necessitating deeper understanding of its impact on 
neurocognitive function in adulthood. We previously demonstrated intact auditory 
sensory processing, accompanied by mild sensory memory difficulties, in children 
and adolescents with cystinosis.
METHODS: We investigated whether further progressive decrements in these 
processes would be observed in adults with cystinosis, comparing high-density 
auditory-evoked potential (AEP) recordings from adults with cystinosis (N = 15; 
ages: 19-38 years) to those of age-matched controls (N = 17). We employed a 
duration oddball paradigm with different stimulation rates, in which 
participants passively listened to regularly occurring standard tones 
interspersed with infrequently occurring deviant tones. Analyses focused on AEP 
components reflecting auditory sensory-perceptual processing (N1 and P2), 
sensory memory (mismatch negativity, MMN), and attentional orienting (P3a).
RESULTS: Overall, adults with cystinosis produced highly similar 
sensory-perceptual AEP responses to those observed in controls suggesting intact 
early auditory cortical processing. However, significantly increased P2 and P3a 
amplitudes and reduced MMN at slower stimulation rates were observed, suggesting 
mild-to-moderate changes in auditory sensory memory and attentional processing. 
While cognitive testing revealed lower scores on verbal IQ and perceptual 
reasoning in cystinosis, these did not correlate with the AEP measures.
CONCLUSIONS: These neurophysiological data point to the emergence of subtle 
auditory processing deficits in early adulthood in cystinosis, warranting 
further investigation of memory and attentional processes in this population, 
and of their consequences for perceptual and cognitive function.

DOI: 10.1186/s13023-021-01818-0
PMCID: PMC8045394
PMID: 33849633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The Authors report no biomedical financial 
interests or potential conflicts of interest.


796. Int Psychogeriatr. 2022 Jul;34(7):657-669. doi: 10.1017/S1041610221000399.
Epub  2021 Apr 14.

The longitudinal association between loneliness and depressive symptoms in the 
elderly: a systematic review.

Van As BAL(1), Imbimbo E(1), Franceschi A(1), Menesini E(1), Nocentini A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Educational Science and Psychology, University of Florence, 
Florence, Italy.

Comment in
    Int Psychogeriatr. 2022 Jul;34(7):613-616.
    Int Psychogeriatr. 2022 Dec;34(12):1057-1058.

OBJECTIVE: Loneliness and the onset of depression in old age are growing 
problems related to the greater life expectancy nowadays. This review 
investigated the longitudinal association between loneliness and depressive 
symptoms in the elderly.
DESIGN: A comprehensive search was conducted using three databases (Scopus, 
PsycInfo, and PubMed) combing for empirical studies published up until July 
2020. A total of 4.549 abstracts and 221 full-text articles were assessed. Three 
authors independently reviewed titles and abstracts; disagreements were resolved 
by consensus.
RESULTS: Ten studies were included in the final review. We identified two 
categories of studies based on the outcome considered in each article: 1) the 
longitudinal effect of loneliness on depressive symptoms and 2) the clinical 
course of depression and its association with loneliness. All the articles 
reported a significant and positive association between loneliness and 
depressive symptoms in their longitudinal design research, ranging from an odds 
ratio of 0.41 to 17.76. The heterogeneity regarding the effect size in the 
analyses can be explained by the multifactorial design implemented by most of 
the studies included.
CONCLUSIONS: Future research should investigate the moderators' role and how it 
may influence the longitudinal association between loneliness and depression 
over the years.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610221000399
PMID: 33849675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Clin Genitourin Cancer. 2021 Aug;19(4):e255-e263. doi: 
10.1016/j.clgc.2021.03.015. Epub 2021 Mar 19.

Salvage Radical Prostatectomy: Baseline Prostate Cancer Characteristics and 
Survival Across SEER Registries.

Wenzel M(1), Würnschimmel C(2), Nocera L(3), Collà Ruvolo C(4), Tian Z(5), 
Shariat SF(6), Saad F(5), Briganti A(7), Graefen M(8), Becker A(9), Kluth LA(9), 
Mandel P(9), Chun FKH(9), Karakiewicz PI(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospital Frankfurt, Frankfurt am Main, 
Germany; Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, Division of Urology, 
University of Montréal Health Center, Montréal, Québec, Canada. Electronic 
address: Mike.Wenzel@kgu.de.
(2)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, Division of Urology, University 
of Montréal Health Center, Montréal, Québec, Canada; Martini-Klinik Prostate 
Cancer Center, University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(3)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, Division of Urology, University 
of Montréal Health Center, Montréal, Québec, Canada; Department of Urology and 
Division of Experimental Oncology, URI, Urological Research Institute, IRCCS San 
Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy.
(4)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, Division of Urology, University 
of Montréal Health Center, Montréal, Québec, Canada; Department of 
Neurosciences, Reproductive Sciences and Odontostomatology, University of Naples 
Federico II, Italy.
(5)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, Division of Urology, University 
of Montréal Health Center, Montréal, Québec, Canada.
(6)Department of Urology, Comprehensive Cancer Center, Medical University of 
Vienna, Vienna, Austria; Departments of Urology, Weill Cornell Medical College, 
New York, NY; Department of Urology, University of Texas Southwestern, Dallas, 
Tx; Department of Urology, Second Faculty of Medicine, Charles University, Prag, 
Czech Republic; Institute for Urology and Reproductive Health, I.M. Sechenov 
First Moscow State Medical University, Moscow, Russia; Division of Urology, 
Department of Special Surgery, Jordan University Hospital, The University of 
Jordan, Amman, Jordan.
(7)Department of Urology and Division of Experimental Oncology, URI, Urological 
Research Institute, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy.
(8)Martini-Klinik Prostate Cancer Center, University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg, Germany.
(9)Department of Urology, University Hospital Frankfurt, Frankfurt am Main, 
Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To test for baseline prostate cancer characteristics and survival 
differences after salvage radical prostatectomy (SRP) across 18 Surveillance, 
Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) registries from 2004 to 2016.
METHODS: We tabulated prostate-specific antigen (PSA), cT stage, age, and SRP 
rates across individual SEER registries. Kaplan-Meier and competing risks 
regression methodologies depicted cancer-specific mortality and other cause 
mortality. Finally, overall mortality was compared with predicted life 
expectancy.
RESULTS: Overall, 428 SRP patients (2004-2016) were identified in the SEER 
database. Median follow-up duration was 74 months (interquartile range [IQR], 
31-114). The median age at diagnosis was 68 years (IQR, 61-73 years) with a 
median PSA at diagnosis of 8.8 ng/mL (IQR, 5.4-18.6 ng/mL) and 10% cT3-4 stage 
(0%-23.8%). Variability existed across individual SEER registries regarding age, 
PSA, cT stage, and annual number of SRPs (0-17), as well as cumulative numbers 
of SRPs (7-73) between 2004 and 2016. At 10 years, cancer-specific mortality was 
23.2% vs. other cause mortality 19.3%. Finally, SRP patients exhibited higher 
10-year overall mortality (43.3%) than predicted by life tables (31.8%).
CONCLUSION: SRP is rarely performed. In most SEER registries, SRP use is very 
occasional. More than 2 average annual SRPs were reported in only 5 of all 
registries. Nonetheless, across all registries, SRP patients showed marginal to 
moderate differences in PSA, cT stage, and age at diagnosis. However, at 10 
years of follow-up, 1 of 5 SRP patients died of other causes and observed 
overall mortality was higher than expected (36%).

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clgc.2021.03.015
PMID: 33849813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
have stated that they have no conflicts of interest.


798. Prim Care Diabetes. 2021 Aug;15(4):635-641. doi: 10.1016/j.pcd.2021.04.003.
Epub  2021 Apr 10.

Effects of sleep intervention on glucose control: A narrative review of clinical 
evidence.

Tiwari R(1), Tam DNH(2), Shah J(3), Moriyama M(4), Varney J(5), Huy NT(6).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Institute of Medicine, Tribhuvan University, Kathmandu, 
44600, Nepal; Online Research Club (http://onlineresearchclub.org), Nagasaki, 
852-8523, Japan. Electronic address: docranjittiwari@gmail.com.
(2)Online Research Club (http://onlineresearchclub.org), Nagasaki, 852-8523, 
Japan; Asia Shine Trading & Service CO., LTD, Ho Chi Minh City, Viet Nam. 
Electronic address: daongochientam@gmail.com.
(3)Drexel University College of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA. Electronic 
address: jaffer.shah@drexel.edu.
(4)Division of Nursing Science, Graduate School of Biomedical and Health 
Sciences, Hiroshima University, Kasumi 1-2-3 Minami-ku, Hiroshima 734-8553, 
Japan. Electronic address: morimich@hiroshima-u.ac.jp.
(5)American University of the Caribbean, School of Medicine, St Maarten, SXM. 
Electronic address: manofheal@gmail.com.
(6)Institute of Research and Development, Duy Tan University, Da Nang 550000, 
Viet Nam; School of Tropical Medicine and Global Health, Nagasaki University, 
1-12-4 Sakamoto, Nagasaki 852-8523, Japan. Electronic address: 
tienhuy@nagasaki-u.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: Optimizing sleep has been recently gained exposure as a promising 
lifestyle consideration to aid in the control of diabetes. The evidence to 
support the impact of sleep quantity and quality on blood glucose control is 
largely acknowledged. This study aimed to review all published randomized 
controlled trials (RCTs) investigating the relationship between sleep and 
glucose control to synthesize an accurate overview.
METHOD: Literature from PubMed and Google Scholar was searched using the listed 
search terms to obtain RCTs on the role of sleep in glucose homeostasis. Seven 
RCTs were eligible and included in our review. References in these RCTs were 
screened for the presentation of the pathophysiology of metabolic disturbances 
relating to the sleep duration, and the relevant factors affecting blood glucose 
concentration.
RESULTS: Sleep deprivation and poor sleep quality are connected with blood 
glucose disturbance and reduction of insulin sensitivity. This leaves diabetic 
patients at an increased risk of glucose level fluctuations. However, the 
function of β-cells was likely to be conserved after 14-days of sleep 
deprivation. Sleep extension from 7 to 14 days improved blood glucose control 
and insulin sensitivity in both healthy and diabetes participants. Diabetes 
sleep education and personalized interventions that reduced stress and improved 
sleep quality contributed to glucose homeostasis in diabetic patients. Overall 
improving one's sleep hygiene was found to improve glucose control in diabetic 
patients.
CONCLUSION: Longer or short-term sleep deprivation may negatively affect glucose 
homeostasis, although the body temporarily compensates for the impaired function 
of β-cells when reduced sleep lasted up to 14 days. Thus, we recommend optimum 
sleep duration and optimistic sleep duration and sleep quality for decreasing 
risk and progression of diabetes.

Copyright © 2021 Primary Care Diabetes Europe. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pcd.2021.04.003
PMID: 33849816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2021 Jun;30(6):1106-1113. doi: 
10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-19-1580. Epub 2021 Apr 13.

Can Cost-effectiveness Analysis Inform Genotype-Guided Aspirin Use for Primary 
Colorectal Cancer Prevention?

Biltaji E(1)(2)(3), Walker B(1)(4), Au TH(1), Rivers Z(5), Ose J(6)(7), Li 
CI(8), Brixner DI(#)(9)(2), Stenehjem DD(#)(9)(5), Ulrich CM(#)(10)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacotherapy, College of Pharmacy, University of Utah, Salt 
Lake City, Utah.
(2)Program in Personalized Health, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, School of Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake 
City, Utah.
(4)Department of Pathology, School of Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake 
City, Utah.
(5)Department of Pharmacy Practice and Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of 
Pharmacy, University of Minnesota.
(6)Huntsman Cancer Institute, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah.
(7)Department of Population Health Sciences, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, 
Utah.
(8)Division of Public Health Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 
Seattle, Washington.
(9)Department of Pharmacotherapy, College of Pharmacy, University of Utah, Salt 
Lake City, Utah. stene032@d.umn.edu neli.ulrich@hci.utah.edu 
diana.brixner@utah.edu.
(10)Huntsman Cancer Institute, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
stene032@d.umn.edu neli.ulrich@hci.utah.edu diana.brixner@utah.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Inherited genetic variants can modify the cancer-chemopreventive 
effect of aspirin. We evaluated the clinical and economic value of 
genotype-guided aspirin use for colorectal cancer chemoprevention in 
average-risk individuals.
METHODS: A decision analytical model compared genotype-guided aspirin use versus 
no genetic testing, no aspirin. The model simulated 100,000 adults ≥50 years of 
age with average colorectal cancer and cardiovascular disease risk. Low-dose 
aspirin daily starting at age 50 years was recommended only for those with a 
genetic test result indicating a greater reduction in colorectal cancer risk 
with aspirin use. The primary outcomes were quality-adjusted life-years (QALY), 
costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: The mean cost of using genotype-guided aspirin was $187,109 with 19.922 
mean QALYs compared with $186,464 with 19.912 QALYs for no genetic testing, no 
aspirin. Genotype-guided aspirin yielded an ICER of $66,243 per QALY gained, and 
was cost-effective in 58% of simulations at the $100,000 willingness-to-pay 
threshold. Genotype-guided aspirin was associated with 1,461 fewer polyps 
developed, 510 fewer colorectal cancer cases, and 181 fewer colorectal 
cancer-related deaths. This strategy prevented 1,078 myocardial infarctions with 
1,430 gastrointestinal bleeding events, and 323 intracranial hemorrhage cases 
compared with no genetic testing, no aspirin.
CONCLUSIONS: Genotype-guided aspirin use for colorectal cancer chemoprevention 
may offer a cost-effective approach for the future management of average-risk 
individuals.
IMPACT: A genotype-guided aspirin strategy may prevent colorectal cancer, 
colorectal cancer-related deaths, and myocardial infarctions, while minimizing 
bleeding adverse events. This model establishes a framework for 
genetically-guided aspirin use for targeted chemoprevention of colorectal cancer 
with application toward commercial testing in this population.

©2021 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-19-1580
