cognitive impairment. The article also suggests a way forward in dealing with 
rising geriatric age group and its associated problems. The programs supporting 
this population are largely scattered which needs to be consolidated to include 
social security, pension and food security along with health benefits. The 
approach to health care of the elderly needs a comprehensive strategy instead of 
the present fragmented approach where different disease based programs for 
non-communicable diseases, cancer and mental health cater to specific health 
issues of the elderly. Greater awareness, training and skill building in 
geriatric health for primary care physicians need focus and energy. Prioritizing 
training and research in this field including the need for more geriatricians 
has been highlighted.

Copyright: © 2021 Journal of Family Medicine and Primary Care.

DOI: 10.4103/jfmpc.jfmpc_1794_20
PMCID: PMC8132790
PMID: 34017706

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


325. Front Cardiovasc Med. 2021 May 4;8:653768. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2021.653768. 
eCollection 2021.

Percutaneous Coronary Intervention in Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation 
Patients: Overview and Practical Management.

Weferling M(1)(2), Hamm CW(1)(2)(3), Kim WK(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Kerckhoff Heart and Thorax Center, Bad Nauheim, 
Germany.
(2)German Center for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Frankfurt, Germany.
(3)Department of Cardiology, University Hospital of Giessen, Giessen, Germany.
(4)Department of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery, Kerckhoff Heart and Thorax Center, Bad 
Nauheim, Germany.

Coronary artery disease (CAD) is present in 40-75% of patients undergoing 
transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) for severe symptomatic aortic 
stenosis. Currently, the indication for TAVI is expanding toward younger 
patients at lower surgical risk. Given the progressive nature of CAD, the 
necessity for coronary angiography (CA), including percutaneous coronary 
intervention (PCI), will subsequently increase as in the future TAVI patients 
will be younger and have a longer life expectancy. Data on the impact of PCI in 
patients with severe CAD scheduled for TAVI are controversial, and although 
European and US guidelines recommend PCI before TAVI, the optimal timing for PCI 
remains unclear due to a lack of evidence. Depending on the valve type, 
position, and axial alignment of the implanted device, CA and/or PCI after TAVI 
can be challenging. Hence, every interventionalist should be familiar with the 
different types of transcatheter heart valves and their characteristics and 
technical issues that can arise during invasive coronary procedures. This review 
provides an overview of current data regarding the prevalence and clinical 
implications of CAD and PCI in TAVI patients and includes useful guidance for 
practical management in the clinical routine.

Copyright © 2021 Weferling, Hamm and Kim.

DOI: 10.3389/fcvm.2021.653768
PMCID: PMC8129193
PMID: 34017866

Conflict of interest statement: CH is an advisory board of Medtronic. W-KK 
received proctor and/or speaker fees from Abbott, Boston Scientific, Edwards 
Lifesciences, Medtronic, and Meril Life Sciences. The remaining author declares 
that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


326. Food Sci Anim Resour. 2021 May;41(3):468-480. doi: 10.5851/kosfa.2021.e11.
Epub  2021 May 1.

Evaluation of Probiotic Characteristics of Newly Isolated Lactic Acid Bacteria 
from Dry-Aged Hanwoo Beef.

Kim H(1), Shin M(1), Ryu S(1), Yun B(2), Oh S(2), Park DJ(3), Kim Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology and Research Institute of 
Agriculture and Life Science, Seoul National University, Seoul 08826, Korea.
(2)Department of Functional Food and Biotechnology, Jeonju University, Jeonju 
55069, Korea.
(3)Korea Food Research Institute, Wanju 55365, Korea.

Dry aging is a traditional method that improves meat quality, and diverse 
microbial communities are changed during the process. Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) 
are widely present in fermented foods and has many beneficial effects, such as 
immune enhancement and maintenance of intestinal homeostasis. In this study, we 
conducted metagenomic analysis to evaluate the changes in the microbial 
composition of dry-aged beef. We found that lactic acid bacterial strains were 
abundant in dry-aged beef including Lactobacillus sakei and Enterococcus 
faecalis. We investigated their abilities in acid and bile tolerance, adhesion 
to the host, antibiotic resistance, and antimicrobial activity as potential 
probiotics, confirming that L. sakei and E. faecalis strains had remarkable 
capability as probiotics. The isolates from dry-aged beef showed at least 70% 
survival under acidic conditions in addition to an increase in the survival 
level under bile conditions. Antibiotic susceptibility and antibacterial 
activity assays further verified their effectiveness in inhibiting all 
pathogenic bacteria tested, and most of them had low resistance to antibiotics. 
Finally, we used the Caenorhabditis elegans model to confirm their life 
extension and influence on host resistance. In the model system, 12D26 and 20D48 
strains had great abilities to extend the nematode lifespan and to improve host 
resistance, respectively. These results suggest the potential use of newly 
isolated LAB strains from dry-aged beef as probiotic candidates for production 
of fermented meat.

© Korean Society for Food Science of Animal Resources.

DOI: 10.5851/kosfa.2021.e11
PMCID: PMC8112308
PMID: 34017955

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no potential conflicts of 
interest.


327. Am J Epidemiol. 2022 Jan 24;191(2):255-270. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwab150.

Modeling the Cost-Effectiveness of Latent Tuberculosis Screening and Treatment 
Strategies in Recent Migrants to a Low-Incidence Setting.

Dale KD, Abayawardana MJ, McBryde ES, Trauer JM, Carvalho N.

Comment in
    Am J Epidemiol. 2022 Jan 24;191(2):271-274.

Many tuberculosis (TB) cases in low-incidence settings are attributed to 
reactivation of latent TB infection (LTBI) acquired overseas. We assessed the 
cost-effectiveness of community-based LTBI screening and treatment strategies in 
recent migrants to a low-incidence setting (Australia). A decision-analytical 
Markov model was developed that cycled 1 migrant cohort (≥11-year-olds) annually 
over a lifetime from 2020. Postmigration/onshore and offshore (screening during 
visa application) strategies were compared with existing policy (chest x-ray 
during visa application). Outcomes included TB cases averted and discounted cost 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained from a health-sector perspective. 
Most recent migrants are young adults and cost-effectiveness is limited by their 
relatively low LTBI prevalence, low TB mortality risks, and high emigration 
probability. Onshore strategies cost at least $203,188 (Australian) per QALY 
gained, preventing approximately 2.3%-7.0% of TB cases in the cohort. Offshore 
strategies (screening costs incurred by migrants) cost at least $13,907 per QALY 
gained, preventing 5.5%-16.9% of cases. Findings were most sensitive to the LTBI 
treatment quality-of-life decrement (further to severe adverse events); with a 
minimal decrement, all strategies caused more ill health than they prevented. 
Additional LTBI strategies in recent migrants could only marginally contribute 
to TB elimination and are unlikely to be cost-effective unless screening costs 
are borne by migrants and potential LTBI treatment quality-of-life decrements 
are ignored.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwab150
PMID: 34017976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. World J Surg. 2021 Sep;45(9):2734-2741. doi: 10.1007/s00268-021-06164-7.
Epub  2021 May 20.

Laparoscopic Versus Open Incisional Hernia Repair: Long-Term Follow-up Results 
of a Randomized Clinical Trial.

Asencio F(1)(2), Carbó J(3)(4), Ferri R(3)(5), Peiró S(3)(6)(7), Aguiló J(3)(5), 
Torrijo I(8)(3), Barber S(3)(4), Canovas R(8)(3), Andreu-Ballester JC(8)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Arnau de Vilanova University Hospital, SanClemente 12, 
46015, Valencia, Spain. f.asencio@comv.es.
(2)Research Department, Arnau de Vilanova University Hospital, Valencia, Spain. 
f.asencio@comv.es.
(3)Research Department, Arnau de Vilanova University Hospital, Valencia, Spain.
(4)Department of Surgery, Francesc de Borja Hospital, Gandia, Spain.
(5)Department of Surgery, LluisAlcanyís Hospital, Xativa, Spain.
(6)Fundación Para el Fomento de la Investigación Sanitaria y Biomédica de la 
Comunidad Valenciana (FISABIO), Valencia, Spain.
(7)Red de Investigación en Servicios de Salud en Enfermedades Crónicas 
(REDISSEC), Valencia, Spain.
(8)Department of Surgery, Arnau de Vilanova University Hospital, SanClemente 12, 
46015, Valencia, Spain.

PURPOSE: Long-term extension of a previous randomized controlled clinical trial 
comparing open (OVHR) vs. laparoscopic (LVHR) ventral hernia repair, assessing 
recurrence, reoperation, mesh-related complications and self-reported quality of 
life with 10 years of follow-up.
METHODS: Eighty-five patients were followed up to assess recurrence (main 
endpoint), reoperation, mesh complications and death, from the date of index 
until recurrence, death or study completion, whichever was first. Recurrence, 
reoperation rates and death were estimated by intention to treat. Mesh-related 
complications were only assessed in the LVHR group, excluding conversions 
(intraperitoneal onlay; n = 40). Quality of life, using the European Hernia 
Society Quality of Life score, was assessed in surviving non-reoperated patients 
(n = 47).
RESULTS: The incidence rates with 10 person-years of follow-up were 21.01% (CI 
13.24-33.36) for recurrence, 11.92% (CI: 6.60-21.53) for reoperation and 24.88% 
(CI 16.81-36.82) for death. Sixty-two percent of recurrences occurred within the 
first 2 years of follow-up. No significant differences between arms were found 
in any of the outcomes analyzed. Incidence rate of intraperitoneal mesh 
complications with 10 person-years of follow-up was 6.15% (CI 1.99-19.09). The 
mean EuraHS-QoL score with 13.8 years of mean follow-up for living 
non-reoperated patients was 6.63 (CI 4.50-8.78) over 90 possible points with no 
significant differences between arms.
CONCLUSION: In incisional ventral hernias with wall defects up to 15 cm wide, 
laparoscopic repair seems to be as safe and effective as open techniques, with 
no long-term differences in recurrence and reoperation rates or global quality 
of life, although lack of statistical power does not allow definitive 
conclusions on equivalence between alternatives.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ClinicalTrial.gov (NCT04192838).

© 2021. Société Internationale de Chirurgie.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-021-06164-7
PMID: 34018042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2021 May 19;141. doi: 10.4045/tidsskr.21.0383. Print
 2021 May 20.

Nursing home deaths after COVID-19 vaccination.

[Article in English, Norwegian]

Wyller TB, Kittang BR, Ranhoff AH, Harg P, Myrstad M.

BACKGROUND: In the period 27 December 2020 to 15 February 2021, about 29 400 of 
Norway's roughly 35 000 nursing home patients were vaccinated with the mRNA 
vaccine BNT162b2. During the same period, the Norwegian Medicines Agency 
received 100 reports of suspected fatal adverse reactions to the vaccine. An 
expert group has examined the reports and assessed the extent of a causal link 
between vaccination and death.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: The expert group worked in two pairs, each of which 
examined 50 anonymised reports. Each member first examined the reports alone and 
classified the causality as unlikely, possible, probable, certain or 
unclassifiable. Each pair then discussed their results until they reached a 
consensus. All four experts assessed a random sample of 20 reports. The degree 
of agreement was assessed using weighted kappa and McNemar's test of symmetry.
RESULTS: The mean age of the patients was 87.7 years (range 61-103 years). Among 
100 reported deaths, a causal link to the vaccine was considered probable in 10 
cases, possible in 26 and unlikely in 59. Five were unclassifiable. Weighted 
kappa was 0.40 and 0.38 in the two expert pairs, respectively.
INTERPRETATION: Most nursing home patients have a short remaining life 
expectancy, but vaccination may, in a few cases, have accelerated a process of 
dying that had already begun. Nursing home patients should still be given 
priority for vaccination, but the benefits versus risk must be carefully weighed 
up for the frailest patients.

DOI: 10.4045/tidsskr.21.0383
PMID: 34018389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Health Econ. 2021 Aug;30(8):1950-1977. doi: 10.1002/hec.4281. Epub 2021 May
21.

Population norms for quality adjusted life years for the United States of 
America, China, the United Kingdom and Australia.

Palmer AJ(1)(2), Campbell JA(1), de Graaff B(1), Devlin N(2), Ahmad H(1), Clarke 
PM(2), Chen M(3)(4), Si L(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Menzies Institute for Medical Research, University of Tasmania, Hobart, 
Tasmania, Australia.
(2)School of Population and Global Health, The University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(3)School of Health Policy & Management, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, 
China.
(4)Creative Health Policy Research Group, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, 
China.
(5)The George Institute for Global Health, UNSW Sydney, Kensington, New South 
Wales, Australia.

Erratum in
    Health Econ. 2022 Sep;31(9):2090-2105.

Health economics uses quality adjusted life years (QALYs) to help healthcare 
decision makers. However, unlike life expectancy for which age- and 
sex-dependent national life tables are available, no general population norms 
exist to use as a benchmark against which to compare observed or modeled 
projections of QALYs in sub-populations or patients. We developed a 2-state 
Markov model to generate QALY population norms for the USA, UK, China and 
Australia. Annual age- and sex-specific probabilities of all-cause mortality 
were taken from life tables combined with general population country-specific 
age- and sex-specific health state utilities for the EQ-5D-3L (all countries); 
and SF-6D (Australia) multi-attribute utility instruments (MAUI). To validate 
our QALY benchmark model we found that the model closely predicted population 
life expectancies. Using EQ-5D-3L, undiscounted QALYs for males/females aged 18 
years ranged 54.62/58.90 (USA), 55.55/60.21 (China), 57.11/60.16 (Australia), 
and 58.01/61.43 (UK) years. SF-6D benchmark QALYs for Australia were 
consistently lower than those generated from the EQ-5D-3L. The gap in 
undiscounted QALYs between the UK (highest) and the USA (lowest) was 2.53 QALYs 
in women and 3.39 QALYs in men aged 18 years. Our model's QALY population norms 
can be used for internal validation of future health economic models for the 
country-specific value sets for the instruments that we adopted, and when 
quantifying burden of disease in terms of QALYs lost due to illness compared to 
the general population. We have created a publicly available repository to 
continuously include QALY benchmarks that use country-specific value sets for 
other MAUIs and life expectancies.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.4281
PMID: 34018630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Expert Rev Respir Med. 2021 Nov;15(11):1493-1503. doi: 
10.1080/17476348.2021.1931129. Epub 2021 Jun 1.

Establishing expert consensus for the optimal approach to holistic 
risk-management in pulmonary arterial hypertension: a Delphi process and 
narrative review.

Church C(1), Gin-Sing W(2), Grady D(3), Johnson M(1), Kiely DG(4), Lordan J(5), 
Turner N(1), Wort SJ(6), Condliffe R(4).

Author information:
(1)Scottish Pulmonary Vascular Unit, Golden Jubilee National Hospital, Glasgow, 
United Kingdom.
(2)Pulmonary Hypertension Service, Hammersmith Hospital, London, United Kingdom.
(3)Pulmonary Vascular Disease Unit, Royal Papworth Hospital NHS Trust, 
Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(4)Sheffield Pulmonary Vascular Disease Unit, Royal Hallamshire Hospital, 
Sheffield, United Kingdom.
(5)Pulmonary Vascular Unit, Freeman Hospital, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, United 
Kingdom.
(6)Pulmonary Hypertension Service, Royal Brompton Hospital, London, United 
Kingdom.

Background: Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is associated with significant 
morbidity and reduced life expectancy. Various medical therapies, together with 
non-medical therapies such as exercise training, have been shown to improve 
outcomes for patients. We performed a Delphi consensus process to establish 
optimal approaches to optimizing patient care.Methods: A steering group of PAH 
experts formulated 38 statements grouped into 6 themes: burden of PAH, 
risk-stratification, the role of clinical phenotyping in the management of PAH, 
assessing clinical response to treatment, maximizing the medical treatment 
pathway and the role of other management options. An online survey was sent to 
PAH health-care professionals throughout the UK to assess consensus with these 
statements. Consensus was defined as high if ≥70% and very high if ≥90% of the 
respondents agreed with a statement. A narrative review for each theme was then 
performedResults: Consensus was very high in 27 (71%) statements, high in 7 
(18%) statements and was not achieved in 4 (11%) statements.Conclusions: Based 
on the consensus scores, the steering group derived 13 recommendations which, if 
implemented, should result in improved holistic care of patients with PAH.

DOI: 10.1080/17476348.2021.1931129
PMID: 34018901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Recent Results Cancer Res. 2021;218:15-29. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-63749-1_2.

One in Four Dies of Cancer. Questions About the Epidemiology of Malignant 
Tumours.

Weiss C(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Statistics and Biomathematics, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg 
University, Theodor-Kutzer-Ufer 1-3, 68167, Mannheim, Germany. 
christel.weiss@medma.uni-heidelberg.de.

Cancer is the second leading cause of death globally. Malignant tumours are 
responsible for about 9.6 million deaths in 2018 (Ritchie H (2019) How many 
people in the world die from cancer? 
https://ourworldindata.org/how-many-people-in-the-world-die-from-cancer ). 
Worldwide, about 1 in 6 deaths is due to cancer. This confronts researches with 
the question of their origin and doctors with treatment options. It is common 
sense that great efforts should be done in order to reduce the number of 
cancer-specific deaths. In recent years, in lots of countries a variety of 
cancer screening programs have been developed, investigated and improved. The 
basic idea of this approach seems to be quite simple: Tumours will be detected 
at a very early stage when patients do not yet feel clinical symptoms. Thus, 
using an appropriate therapy, progression of the disease can be prevented and, 
concerning a whole population, disease-specific mortality should be reduced. 
Actually, after the introduction of screening programs, an increasing number of 
new cancer cases can be observed associated with an apparent reduction of the 
case fatality rate (i.e. the proportion of deaths due to cancer). Partly, the 
increasing number of cancers may be explained by the fact that people have a 
higher life expectancy. Under this aspect, the decreased case fatality rate 
could be considered as a success which may be attributed to screening efforts. 
However, there is still insufficient evidence affirming benefits of screening 
programs for crucial outcomes, i.e. all-cause mortality. In this narrative 
review, the phenomenon that probabilities and risks are rather often interpreted 
in an inadmissible way will be described. Furthermore, conceptual issues and 
inconsistencies between evidence and opinion about screening will be explored.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-63749-1_2
PMID: 34019159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Eur J Health Econ. 2021 Dec;22(9):1349-1363. doi:
10.1007/s10198-021-01314-z.  Epub 2021 May 21.

The cost-effectiveness of transcatheter aortic valve implantation: exploring the 
Italian National Health System perspective and different patient risk groups.

Lorenzoni V(1), Barbieri G(2), Saia F(3), Meucci F(4), Martinelli GL(5), Cerillo 
AG(6), Berti S(7), Candolfi P(8), Turchetti G(9).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Management, Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna, Pisa, Italy. 
v.lorenzoni@sssup.it.
(2)Edwards Lifesciences Italia S.p.A, Milan, Italy.
(3)Cardio-Thoracic-Vascular Department, RCCS University Hospital of Bologna, 
Policlinico S. Orsola, Bologna, Italy.
(4)Azienda Ospedaliero Universitaria Careggi, Florence, Italy.
(5)Department of Cardiac Surgery, IRCCS MultiMedica Sesto San Giovanni, Milano, 
Italy.
(6)Division of Cardiac Surgery, Careggi University Hospital, Florence, Italy.
(7)Fondazione C.N.R Regione Toscana G. Monasterio, Massa, Italy.
(8)Edwards Lifesciences S.A., Nyon, Switzerland.
(9)Institute of Management, Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna, Pisa, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost-effectiveness (CE) of transcatheter aortic valve 
implantation (TAVI) in Italy, considering patient groups with different surgical 
risk.
METHODS: A Markov model with a 1-month cycle length, comprising eight different 
health states, defined by the New York Heart Association functional classes 
(NYHA I-IV), with and without stroke plus death, was used to estimate the CE of 
TAVI for intermediate-, high-risk and inoperable patients considering surgical 
aortic valve replacement or medical treatment as comparators according to the 
patient group. The Italian National Health System perspective and 15-year time 
horizon were considered. In the base-case analysis, effectiveness data were 
retrieved from published efficacy data and total direct costs (euros) were 
estimated from national tariffs. A scenario analysis considering a micro-costing 
approach to estimate procedural costs was also considered. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was expressed both in terms of costs per life 
years gained (LYG) and costs per quality adjusted life years (QALY). All 
outcomes and costs were discounted at 3% per annum. Univariate and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses (PSA) were performed to assess robustness of results.
RESULTS: Over a 15-year time horizon, the higher acquisition costs for TAVI were 
partially offset in all risk groups because of its effectiveness and safety 
profile. ICERs were €8338/QALY, €11,209/QALY and €10,133/QALY, respectively, for 
intermediate-, high-risk and inoperable patients. ICER values were slightly 
higher in the scenario analysis. PSA suggested consistency of results.
CONCLUSIONS: TAVI would be considered cost-effective at frequently cited 
willingness-to-pay thresholds; further studies could clarify the CE of TAVI in 
real-life scenarios.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-021-01314-z
PMCID: PMC8558181
PMID: 34019220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: VL, FS, FM, GLM and GT declared they have no 
conflict of interest to declare. SB declared the following conflict of 
interests: Proctor Edwards, Proctor Abbott, Proctor Boston Scientific. AGC 
declared the following conflict of interests: Consultant for Boston Scientific, 
Consultant for GADA Italia, Consultant for Livanova, AGC has also received 
speaker fees from Edwards Lifesciences within the past three years. GB and PC 
are full employees of Edwards Lifesciences.


334. Adv Ther. 2021 Jun;38(6):3399-3408. doi: 10.1007/s12325-021-01785-9. Epub
2021  May 21.

Cost-Effectiveness of Atezolizumab Plus Chemotherapy as First-Line Therapy for 
Metastatic Urothelial Cancer.

Qin S(1), Yi L(1), Li S(2), Tan C(1), Zeng X(3), Wang L(1), Peng Y(1), Wan X(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, 410011, Hunan, China.
(2)Xiangya Nursing School, Central South University, Changsha, 410013, Hunan, 
China.
(3)PET-CT Center, The Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha, 410011, Hunan, China.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, The Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, 410011, Hunan, China. wanxiaomin@csu.edu.cn.

INTRODUCTION: The IMvigor130 trial found that atezolizumab plus platinum-based 
chemotherapy (atezolizumab group) as first-line therapy prolonged 
progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with metastatic urothelial cancer 
(mUC), compared with placebo plus platinum-based chemotherapy (placebo group). 
The current study aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of atezolizumab plus 
platinum-based chemotherapy as first-line therapy for mUC from the US payer 
perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model was adopted to compare the cost and effectiveness of 
atezolizumab and placebo group in the first-line setting of patients with mUC. 
Life years (LYs), quality-adjusted LYs (QALYs), lifetime costs, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated. Subgroup, one-way, and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed to explore the model 
robustness.
RESULTS: Atezolizumab group provided an additional 0.39 QALYs (0.52 LYs) and an 
incremental cost of $170,759 per QALY compared with the placebo group. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $434,317 per QALY. Subgroup analysis 
indicated that PD-L1 expression of at least 5% on immune cells had an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $325,236 per QALY. The results of 
one-way sensitivity analyses suggested that our model was sensitive to the cycle 
cost of atezolizumab and the hazard ratio of PFS. Probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses revealed that there was 0% probability of the atezolizumab group being 
cost-effective at a willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold of $150,000 per QALY. The 
extrapolations need to be validated by real-world data.
CONCLUSIONS: From the US payer perspective, atezolizumab plus platinum-based 
chemotherapy is not cost-effective in the first-line therapy for patients with 
mUC on the basis of a WTP threshold of $150,000 per QALY. On the basis of the 
value standpoint, price reduction of atezolizumab is expected to improve the 
cost-effectiveness of atezolizumab in patients with mUC.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-021-01785-9
PMID: 34019245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2021 Jun 2;13(21):24734-24746. doi: 
10.1021/acsami.1c03302. Epub 2021 May 21.

Insight into the Formation and Stability of Solid Electrolyte Interphase for 
Nanostructured Silicon-Based Anode Electrodes Used in Li-Ion Batteries.

Ezzedine M(1), Zamfir MR(1)(2), Jardali F(1), Leveau L(1)(3), Caristan E(1), 
Ersen O(4), Cojocaru CS(1), Florea I(1).

Author information:
(1)LPICM, CNRS, Ecole polytechnique, IP Paris, Palaiseau 91228 Cedex, France.
(2)National Institute for Laser, Plasma & Radiation Physics (INFLPR), 
Atomistilor Street, No. 409, Magurele, Ilfov RO-077125, Romania.
(3)Renault SAS, DREAM/DETA/SEE, 1, Avenue du Golf, Guyancourt 78288, France.
(4)Institut de Physique et Chimie des Matériaux de Strasbourg (IPCMS), UMR 7504 
CNRS - Université de Strasbourg, 23 rue du Loess, Strasbourg 67034 Cedex 2, 
France.

Silicon-based anode fabrication with nanoscale structuration improves the energy 
density and life cycle of Li-ion batteries. As-synthesized silicon (Si) 
nanowires (NWs) or nanoparticles (NPs) directly on the current collector 
represent a credible alternative to conventional graphite anodes. However, the 
operating potentials of these electrodes are below the electrochemical stability 
window of all electrolytes used in commercial Li-ion systems. During the first 
charging phase of the cell, partial decomposition of the electrolyte takes 
place, which leads to the formation of a layer at the surface of the electrode, 
called solid electrolyte interphase (SEI). A stable and continuous SEI layer 
formation is a critical factor to achieve reliable lifetime stability of the 
battery. Once formed, the SEI acts as a passivation layer that minimizes further 
degradation of the electrolyte during cycling, while allowing lithium-ion 
diffusion with their subsequent insertion into the active material and ensuring 
reversible operation of the electrode. However, one of the major issues 
requiring deeper investigation is the assessment of the morphological extension 
of the SEI layer into the active material, which is one of the main parameters 
affecting the anode performances. In the present study, we use electron 
tomography with a low electron dose to retrieve three-dimensional information on 
the SEI layer formation and its stability around SiNWs and SiNPs. The possible 
mechanisms of SEI evolution could be inferred from the interpretation and 
analysis of the reconstructed volumes. Significant volume variations in the SiNW 
and an inhomogeneous distribution of the SEI layer around the NWs are observed 
during cycling and provide insights into the potential mechanism leading to the 
generally reported SiNW anode capacity fading. By contrast, analysis of the 
reconstructed SiNPs' volume for a sample undergoing one lithiation-delithiation 
cycle shows that the SEI remains homogeneously distributed around the NPs that 
retain their spherical morphology and points to the potential benefit of such 
nanoscale Si anode materials to improve their cycling lifetime.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.1c03302
PMID: 34019366


336. PLoS One. 2021 May 21;16(5):e0252209. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0252209. 
eCollection 2021.

Risk factors for acute kidney injury and mortality in high risk patients 
undergoing cardiac surgery.

Serraino GF(1), Provenzano M(2), Jiritano F(1), Michael A(3), Ielapi N(4), 
Mastroroberto P(1), Andreucci M(3), Serra R(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, University of Catanzaro, 
Catanzaro, Italy.
(2)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of Catanzaro, 
Catanzaro, Italy.
(3)Department of Health Sciences, University Magna Graecia of Catanzaro, 
Catanzaro, Italy.
(4)"Sapienza" University of Rome, Department of Public Health and Infectious 
Disease, Roma, Italy.
(5)Interuniversity Center of Phlebolymphology (CIFL), International Research and 
Educational Program in Clinical and Experimental Biotechnology, University Magna 
Graecia of Catanzaro, Catanzaro, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) represents a clinical condition with poor 
prognosis. The incidence of AKI in hospitalized patients was about 22-57%. 
Patients undergoing cardiac surgery (CS) are particularly exposed to AKI because 
of the related oxidative stress, inflammation and ischemia-reperfusion damage. 
Hence, the risk profile of patients undergoing CS who develop AKI and who are 
consequently at increased mortality risk deserves further investigation.
METHODS: We designed a retrospective study examining consecutive patients 
undergoing any type of open-heart surgery from January to December 2018. 
Patients with a history of AKI were excluded. AKI was diagnosed according to 
KDIGO criteria. Univariate associations between clinical variables and AKI were 
tested using logistic regression analysis. Variable thresholds maximizing the 
association with AKI were measured with the Youden index. Multivariable logistic 
regression analysis was performed to assess predictors of AKI through backward 
selection. Mortality risk factors were assessed through the Cox proportional 
hazard model.
RESULTS: We studied 158 patients (mean age 51.2±9.7 years) of which 74.7% were 
males. Types of procedures performed were: isolated coronary artery bypass 
(CABG, 50.6%), valve (28.5%), aortic (3.2%) and combined (17.7%) surgery. 
Overall, incidence of AKI was 34.2%. At multivariable analysis, young age (p = 
0.016), low blood glucose levels (p = 0.028), estimated Glomerular Filtration 
Rate (p = 0.007), pH (p = 0.008), type of intervention (p = 0.031), prolonged 
extracorporeal circulation (ECC, p = 0.028) and cross-clamp (p = 0.021) times 
were associated with AKI. The threshold for detecting AKI were 91 and 51 minutes 
for ECC and cross-clamp times, respectively. At survival analysis, the presence 
of AKI, prolonged ECC and cross-clamp times, and low blood glucose levels 
forecasted mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: AKI is common among CS patients and associates with shortened 
life-expectancy. Several pre-operative and intra-operative predictors are 
associated with AKI and future mortality. Future studies, aiming at improving 
prognosis in high-risk patients, by a stricter control of these factors, are 
awaited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0252209
PMCID: PMC8139497
PMID: 34019579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


337. Neuroimage Clin. 2021;31:102693. doi: 10.1016/j.nicl.2021.102693. Epub 2021
May  7.

Mitochondrial toxicity before and after combination antiretroviral therapy, a 
Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy study.

Tivarus ME(1), Zhuang Y(2), Wang L(3), Murray KD(4), Venkataraman A(4), Weber 
MT(5), Zhong J(6), Qiu X(3), Schifitto G(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Imaging Sciences, University of Rochester Medical Center, 
Rochester NY, USA; Department of Neuroscience, University of Rochester Medical 
Center, Rochester NY, USA. Electronic address: 
madalina_tivarus@urmc.rochester.edu.
(2)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Rochester, 
Rochester, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology, University of 
Rochester Medical Center, Rochester NY, USA.
(4)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Rochester, Rochester NY, 
USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester 
NY, USA.
(6)Department of Imaging Sciences, University of Rochester Medical Center, 
Rochester NY, USA; Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Rochester, 
Rochester NY, USA; Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of 
Rochester, Rochester NY, USA.
(7)Department of Imaging Sciences, University of Rochester Medical Center, 
Rochester NY, USA; Department of Neurology, University of Rochester Medical 
Center, Rochester NY, USA.

The aim of this study was to quantify, via Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy 
(MRS), the effect of combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) on brain 
metabolites and characterize any possible associations between changes in 
metabolites, age, blood biomarkers of neuronal damage, functional connectivity 
and cognitive performance. As cART has dramatically increased the life 
expectancy of HIV-infected (HIV + ) individuals and unmasked an increase in 
HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders, it is still not clear whether cART 
neurotoxicity contributes to these disorders. We hypothesized a bimodal effect, 
with early cART treatment of HIV infection decreasing inflammation as measured 
by MRS metabolites and improving cognitive performance, and chronic exposure to 
cART contributing to persistence of cognitive impairment via its effect on 
mitochondrial function. Basal ganglia metabolites, functional connectivity, 
cognitive scores, as well as plasma levels of neurofilament light chain (NfL) 
and tau protein were measured before and after 12 weeks, 1 year and 2 years of 
cART in a cohort of 50 cART-naïve HIV + subjects and 72 age matched HIV- healthy 
controls. Glutamate (Glu) levels were lower in the cART naïve patients than in 
healthy controls and were inversely correlated with plasma levels of NfL. There 
were no other significant metabolite differences between HIV + and uninfected 
individuals. Treatment improved Glu levels in HIV+, however, no associations 
were found between Glu, functional connectivity and cognitive performance. 
Stable brain metabolites and plasma levels of NfL and Tau over two-years of 
follow-ups suggest there are no signs of cART neurotoxicity in this relatively 
young cohort of HIV + individuals.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nicl.2021.102693
PMCID: PMC8144469
PMID: 34020161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


338. J Formos Med Assoc. 2021 Dec;120(12):2089-2099. doi:
10.1016/j.jfma.2021.04.023.  Epub 2021 May 19.

QALYs and medical costs saved from prevention of a cancer: Analysis of 
nation-wide real-world data of Taiwan with lifetime horizon.

Lai WW(1), Chung CH(2), Lin CN(3), Yang SC(4), Hwang JS(2), Wang JD(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, College of 
Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(2)Institute of Statistical Science, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Public Health, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, 
College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Public Health, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan, Taiwan; Department of Internal Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University Hospital, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, 
Tainan, Taiwan; Department of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, National 
Cheng Kung University Hospital, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan, Taiwan. Electronic address: jdwang121@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: To quantify savings of loss-of-QALE (quality-adjusted life 
expectancy) and lifetime medical costs from prevention of different cancers.
METHODS: We collected nation-wide data on 808,700 new cancer cases of 14 
different organ systems and followed them from 1998 to 2014 in Taiwan. We also 
collected 13,005 cancer patients from a medical center and 47,320 repeated 
measurements of quality of life (QoL) of EQ-5D to obtain utility values and 
multiplied them with the corresponding survival rates to calculate QALE. With 
Kaplan-Meier estimation to survival function to the end of follow-up, we 
extrapolated to lifetime through a rolling over algorithm on the logit transform 
of the survival ratio between the index cohort and age-, sex, and calendar year 
matched referents simulated from vital statistics. Lifetime costs for each 
cancer were estimated by multiplying survival with average monthly costs after 
adjustment with annual discount rate. The loss-of-QALE was estimated by the 
difference in QALE between the index cancer cohort and corresponding referents.
RESULTS: The dynamic changes and weighted averages of the QoL utility values of 
14 different cancers ranged from 0.82 to 0.95. Successful prevention of liver, 
lung, esophagus, or nasopharynx cancer would save more than 10 quality-adjusted 
life years and more than 21,000 USD per case for both genders. Since the saving 
of loss-of-QALE was adjusted for different age, sex, and calendar-year 
distributions, it could be used in cost effectiveness evaluation.
CONCLUSION: Savings of loss-of-QALE and lifetime costs could be used for 
comparison of prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation from a 
lifetime horizon.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfma.2021.04.023
PMID: 34020855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have no conflicts of interest relevant to this article.


339. J Econ Entomol. 2021 Aug 5;114(4):1666-1673. doi: 10.1093/jee/toab088.

Refining Pheromone Lures for the Invasive Halyomorpha halys (Hemiptera: 
Pentatomidae) Through Collaborative Trials in the United States and Europe.

Leskey TC(1)(2), Andrews H(3), Bády A(4), Benvenuto L(5), Bernardinelli I(5), 
Blaauw B(6), Bortolotti PP(7), Bosco L(8), Di Bella E(9), Hamilton G(10), Kuhar 
T(11), Ludwick D(1)(12), Maistrello L(9), Malossini G(5), Nannini R(7), Nixon 
LJ(1), Pasqualini E(13), Preti M(14), Short BD(1), Spears L(2), Tavella L(8), 
Vétek G(4), Wiman N(3).

Author information:
(1)USDA-ARS, Appalachian Fruit Research Station, 2217 Wiltshire Road, 
Kearneysville, WV 25430-2771, USA.
(2)Department of Biology, Utah State University, Logan, UT 84322-5305, USA.
(3)North Willamette Research and Extension Center, Oregon State University, 
Aurora, OR, USA.
(4)Department of Entomology, Szent István University, Villányi út 29-43, H-1118 
Budapest, Hungary.
(5)ERSA - Servizio Fitosanitario del Friuli Venezia Giulia, Via Sabbatini 5, 
33050 Pozzuolo del Friuli, Italy.
(6)Department of Entomology, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 3060, USA.
(7)Consorzio Fitosanitario Provinciale Modena, Via Santi 14, 41123 Modena, 
Italy.
(8)University of Torino, Department of Agricultural, Forest and Food Sciences 
(DISAFA), Grugliasco (TO), Italy.
(9)Department of Life Sciences, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Via G. 
Amendola 2, 42122 Reggio Emilia, Italy.
(10)Department of Entomology, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ 08854, USA.
(11)Department of Entomology, Virginia Polytechnic and State University, 
Blacksburg, VA 24061, USA.
(12)Texas A&M University AgriLife Extension, 10345 Highway 44, Corpus Christi, 
TX 78406, USA.
(13)DISTAL, University of Bologna, Viale Fanin 42, 40127 Bologna, Italy.
(14)ASTRA Innovazione e Sviluppo Test Facility, Via Tebano 45, 48018 Faenza, 
Italy.

Brown marmorated stink bug, Halyomorpha halys, is native to Asia and has invaded 
North America and Europe inflicting serious agricultural damage to specialty and 
row crops. Tools to monitor the spread of H. halys include traps baited with the 
two-component aggregation pheromone (PHER), 
(3S,6S,7R,10S)-10,11-epoxy-1-bisabolen-3-ol and 
(3R,6S,7R,10S)-10,11-epoxy-1-bisabolen-3-ol, and pheromone synergist, methyl 
(2E,4E,6Z)-decatrienoate (MDT). Here, an international team of researchers 
conducted trials aimed at evaluating prototype commercial lures for H. halys to 
establish relative attractiveness of: 1) low and high loading rates of PHER and 
MDT for monitoring tools and attract and kill tactics; 2) polyethylene lure 
delivery substrates; and 3) the inclusion of ethyl (2E,4E,6Z)-decatrieonate 
(EDT), a compound that enhances captures when combined with PHER in lures. In 
general, PHER loading rate had a greater impact on overall trap captures 
compared with loading of MDT, but reductions in PHER loading and accompanying 
lower trap captures could be offset by increasing loading of MDT. As MDT is less 
expensive to produce, these findings enable reduced production costs. Traps 
baited with lures containing PHER and EDT resulted in numerically increased 
captures when EDT was loaded at a high rate, but captures were not significantly 
greater than those traps baited with lures containing standard PHER and MDT. 
Experimental polyethylene vial dispensers did not outperform standard lure 
dispensers; trap captures were significantly lower in most cases. Ultimately, 
these results will enable refinement of commercially available lures for H. 
halys to balance attraction and sensitivity with production cost.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/toab088
PMID: 34021561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. J Econ Entomol. 2021 Aug 5;114(4):1638-1646. doi: 10.1093/jee/toab084.

Field and Laboratory Testing of Feeding Stimulants to Enhance Insecticide 
Efficacy Against Spotted-Wing Drosophila, Drosophila suzukii (Matsumura).

Fanning P(1), Lanka S(2), Mermer S(3), Collins J(1), Van Timmeren S(4), Andrews 
H(5), Hesler S(6), Loeb G(6), Drummond F(1), Wiman NG(5), Walton V(3), Sial 
AA(7), Isaacs R(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Biology and Ecology, University of Maine, Orono, ME 04469, USA.
(2)Department of Entomology, Kansas State University, Manhattan, KS 66506, USA.
(3)Department of Horticulture, Oregon State University, 4017 Agriculture and 
Life Sciences Building, Corvallis, OR 97331, USA.
(4)Department of Entomology, Michigan State University, 578 Wilson Road, East 
Lansing, MI 48824, USA.
(5)North Willamette Research and Extension Center, Oregon State University, 
Aurora, Oregon 97002, and USA.
(6)Department of Entomology, Cornell AgriTech, Cornell University, 15 W. Castle 
Creed Drive, Geneva, NY 14456, USA.
(7)Department of Entomology, University of Georgia, 413 Biological Sciences 
Building, Athens, GA 30602, USA.

The invasive spotted-wing drosophila, Drosophila suzukii (Matsumura), is a key 
insect pest of berries globally, causing lost revenues and increased production 
costs associated with applications of insecticides. The insecticides utilized 
are commonly broad-spectrum pyrethroids, organophosphates, or carbamates in 
conventionally managed fields and spinosad in organically managed fields. 
Adoption of more selective insecticides has been limited due to their lower 
residual activity, and the requirement that some must be ingested to be 
effective. We investigated the use of feeding stimulants for D. suzukii as a 
method to improve longevity and efficacy in a range of insecticides. In 
laboratory bioassays, sugar increased the efficacy of all chemical classes 
tested; however, the inclusion of yeast only showed a benefit with malathion. 
Feeding stimulants had a limited effect in some cases under field conditions. 
Similarly, infestation in field plots and a semifield bioassay showed no 
significant decreases in infestation with the inclusion of feeding stimulants 
for the insecticides tested in these trials. We discuss the implications of 
these findings for managing D. suzukii in fruit crops to help ensure the harvest 
of marketable fruit.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jee/toab084
PMID: 34021580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Adv Ther. 2021 Jun;38(6):3427-3443. doi: 10.1007/s12325-021-01767-x. Epub
2021  May 22.

Cost-Effectiveness of Tisagenlecleucel in Paediatric Acute Lymphoblastic 
Leukaemia (pALL) and Adult Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL) in Switzerland.

Moradi-Lakeh M(1), Yaghoubi M(2)(3), Seitz P(4), Javanbakht M(5), Brock E(6).

Author information:
(1)Optimax Access LLC, 93 Martinique, Laguna Niguel, CA, 92677, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmacy Practice, Mercer University College of Pharmacy, 3001 
Mercer University Dr, Atlanta, GA, 30341, USA.
(3)Canada Optimax Access Consulting, 1803-2138 Madison Ave, Burnaby, BC, V5C6T6, 
Canada.
(4)Novartis Pharma Schweiz AG, Suurstoffi 14, 6343, Rotkreuz, Switzerland.
(5)Optimax Access Ltd., Suite 30 Kenneth Dibben House, Enterprise Road, 
Southampton Science Park, Chilworth, Southampton, SO16 7NS, UK.
(6)HealthEcon AG, Postfach 1510, 4001, Basel, Switzerland. 
ebrock@healthecon.com.

INTRODUCTION: The purpose of the present analysis was to explore the 
cost-effectiveness of tisagenlecleucel in relapsed or refractory (r/r) 
paediatric acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (pALL) and r/r adult diffuse large 
B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) in Switzerland against a range of historical 
standard-of-care treatments.
METHODS: Two cost-utility models were constructed for the two licensed 
indications using similar methodologies but indication-specific data. Clinical 
efficacy data were based on pooled analyses of clinical trials for 
tisagenlecleucel (pALL: ELIANA, ENSIGN, B2101J; DLBCL: JULIET, NCT02030834) and 
published data for comparator treatments. Treatment effects were compared based 
on matching-adjusted indirect comparison (MAIC) analyses. Four clinical lymphoma 
and leukaemia experts provided Switzerland-specific input regarding comparators, 
diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, clinical evidence and costs, which were 
used to inform the models. The base case analysis reflected the perspective of 
the Swiss mandatory health insurance system. Deterministic, probabilistic and 
scenario analyses were carried out to explore the robustness of results.
RESULTS: The base case analysis resulted in incremental costs of CHF 31,961-CHF 
36,419 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained for pALL across the 
different comparators and CHF 113,179 for DLBCL (1 CHF = 1.09 USD). Incremental 
costs per life-year gained ranged between CHF 33,906-CHF 97,399 across the two 
indications. Including productivity gains, tisagenlecleucel was shown to be 
dominant (more effective and less costly) over all the comparators for pALL and 
to result in incremental costs per life-year gained of CHF 57,324 for DLBCL.
CONCLUSION: Using hypothetical willingness-to-pay thresholds of CHF 
100,000-150,000 per QALY gained, the present analysis has shown tisagenlecleucel 
to be a cost-effective treatment option in pALL and DLBCL.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-021-01767-x
PMID: 34021886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Microb Pathog. 2021 Aug;157:104978. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2021.104978. Epub
 2021 May 19.

Fusion-expressed CtxB-TcpA-C-CPE improves both systemic and mucosal humoral and 
T-cell responses against cholera in mice.

Souod N(1), Kargar M(2), Hoseini MH(3), Jafarinia M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Marvdasht Branch, Islamic Azad University, Marvdasht, 
I. R, Iran.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Jahrom Branch, Islamic Azad University, Jahrom, 
I.R, Iran. Electronic address: mkargar@jia.ac.ir.
(3)Immunology Department, Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute, Shiraz 
Branch, Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), 
Shiraz, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Development of an effective oral vaccine against Cholera, a 
life-threatening dehydrating diarrheal disease, proved to be a challenging task. 
To improve oral subunit vaccine immunogenicity and to prevent the state of oral 
tolerance, application of mucosal adjuvants might be a promising approach. In 
the present study, the CtxB-TcpA-C-CPE fusion was constructed in which CtxB and 
C-CPE were used as mucosal adjuvants and vaccine delivery system, respectively, 
to induce mucosal immune responses, and to improve the anti-toxin and 
anti-colonizing immunity against V. cholerae.
MATERIALS & METHODS: The fusion construct was synthesized, sub-cloned in pQE30 
and expressed in E. coli. The three antigen, making the fusion protein, were 
also separately expressed in E. coli. The recombinant proteins were purified by 
affinity chromatography using Ni-NTA agarose. Western blot analysis using 
anti-His antibody was applied to confirm identity of the purified proteins. 
BALB/c mice were subcutaneously immunized with CtxB, TcpA, C-CPE and the fusion 
protein CtxB-TcpA-C-CPE separately. The mice were orally immunized (in 3 boosts) 
by the same vaccine. Mucosal immune response stimulation was evaluated by 
measuring the levels of intestinal IgA. Systemic immune response was evaluated 
by measuring total serum IgG, IgG1, IgG2a, IgG2b subclasses, and also IL-4, 
IL-5, IL-10 and IFN-γ cytokines in spleen cell culture.
RESULTS: The recombinant proteins CtxB, TcpA, C-CPE and the fusion protein 
CtxB-TcpA-C-CPE were expressed in E. coli and highly purified in a single step 
of chromatography. BALB/c mice immunized with the fusion protein had highest 
levels of intestinal IgA, serum IgG and IgG subclasses, compared to each of the 
three proteins making the fusion. Moreover, stimulated splenocytes of mice 
immunized with the fusion protein displayed significantly higher amounts of IL-5 
and IFN-ɣ cytokines. Th2 dominance of the immune response was more evident in 
mice receiving the fusion protein.
CONCLUSION: Inclusion of CtxB, as the mucosal adjuvant, and C-CPE, as the 
vaccine delivery system, in the fusion protein CtxB-TcpA-C-CPE significantly 
enhanced the elicited mucosal and systemic immune responses, compared to TcpA 
alone. Of note, significant production of intestinal IgA in mice immunized with 
the fusion protein is presumably capable of neutralizing TcpA, CtxB and C-CPE 
antigens, preventing V. cholera colonization, and toxic function of CtxB and 
C-CPE. Challenge infection of the immunized mice is required to evaluate 
protective potential of the fusion protein against V. cholera.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2021.104978
PMID: 34022352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. J Psychiatr Res. 2021 Jul;139:30-37. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2021.04.029.
Epub  2021 Apr 30.

Accelerated aging signatures in subjects with schizophrenia and their unaffected 
siblings.

Rebouças DB(1), Sartori JM(1), Librenza-Garcia D(2), Rabelo-da-Ponte FD(1), 
Massuda R(3), Czepielewski LS(4), Passos IC(1), Gama CS(5).

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Psiquiatria Molecular, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, 
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil; Programa de 
Pós-Graduação em Psiquiatria e Ciências do Comportamento, Universidade Federal 
do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Psiquiatria Molecular, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, 
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil; Department of 
Psychiatry and Behavioural Neurosciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, 
Canada.
(3)Laboratório de Psiquiatria Molecular, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, 
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil; Departamento de 
Psiquiatria, Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil.
(4)Laboratório de Psiquiatria Molecular, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, 
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil; Programa de 
Pós- Graduação em Psicologia, Departamento de Psicologia do Desenvolvimento e da 
Personalidade, Instituto de Psicologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do 
Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(5)Laboratório de Psiquiatria Molecular, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, 
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil; Programa de 
Pós-Graduação em Psiquiatria e Ciências do Comportamento, Universidade Federal 
do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil. Electronic address: 
cgama@hcpa.edu.br.

Schizophrenia (SZ) is a chronic debilitating disease. Subjects with SZ have 
significant shorter life expectancy. Growing evidence suggests that a process of 
pathological accelerated aging occurs in SZ, leading to early development of 
severe clinical diseases and worse morbimortality. Furthermore, unaffected 
