489. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 May 17;18(10):5333. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18105333.

Epidemiology and Prevention of Healthcare-Associated Infections in Geriatric 
Patients: A Narrative Review.

Cristina ML(1), Spagnolo AM(1), Giribone L(1), Demartini A(1), Sartini M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Genoa, 16132 Genoa, Italy.

Demographic studies show that life expectancy is increasing in developed 
countries; increased longevity has also increased the share of the older 
population with often concomitant chronic conditions. An ageing population and 
increased comorbidities lead to more complex pharmacological therapies 
(polypharmacy). The particular picture provided by chronic conditions and 
polypharmacy can lead to longer hospital stays and a greater need for 
healthcare. Elderly patients are identified as being in the high-risk group for 
the development of healthcare-associated infections (HAIs) due to the 
age-related decline of the immune system, known as immunosenescence. Comorbid 
conditions can often complicate infections, diminishing our ability to treat 
them effectively. Respiratory tract infections are the most common 
healthcare-associated infections, followed by urinary tract infections. HAIs in 
geriatric patients are responsible for longer hospital stays, extended 
antibiotic therapy, significant mortality, and higher healthcare costs. This is 
because the microorganisms involved are multidrug-resistant and, therefore, more 
difficult to eliminate. Moreover, geriatric patients are frequently transferred 
from one facility (nursing homes, skilled nursing facilities, home care, and 
other specialty clinics) to another or from one hospital ward to another; these 
transitions cause care fragmentation, which can undermine the effectiveness of 
treatment and allow pathogens to be transferred from one setting to another and 
from one person to another. Multifactorial efforts such as early recognition of 
infections, restricted use of invasive devices, and effective infection control 
measures (surveillance, isolation practices, hand hygiene, etc.) can contribute 
to significant reduction of HAIs in geriatric patients.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18105333
PMCID: PMC8156303
PMID: 34067797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


490. Curr Oncol. 2021 May 13;28(3):1847-1856. doi: 10.3390/curroncol28030171.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of 12-Versus 4-Weekly Administration of 
Bone-Targeted Agents in Patients with Bone Metastases from Breast and 
Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer.

Tu MM(1)(2), Clemons M(1)(2)(3), Stober C(1), Jeong A(1), Vandermeer L(1), Mates 
M(4), Blanchette P(5), Joy AA(6), Aseyev O(7), Pond G(8), Fergusson D(9), Ng 
TL(1)(2)(3), Thavorn K(2)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Therapeutics Program, Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, ON 
K1H 8L6, Canada.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON K1H 8M5, Canada.
(3)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, The Ottawa Hospital, 
Ottawa, ON K1H 8L6, Canada.
(4)Division of Medical Oncology, Cancer Centre of Southeastern Ontario and 
Queen's University, Kingston, ON K7L 5P9, Canada.
(5)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Oncology, London Regional Cancer 
Program, London Health Sciences Centre and University of Western Ontario, 
London, ON N6A 5W9, Canada.
(6)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Oncology, University of Alberta, 
Edmonton, AB T6G 1Z2, Canada.
(7)Regional Cancer Care Northwest, Thunder Bay Regional Health Sciences Centre, 
Thunder Bay, ON P7B 6V4, Canada.
(8)Department of Oncology, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON L8V 5C2, Canada.
(9)Clinical Epidemiology Program, Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, ON 
K1H 8L6, Canada.
(10)ICES, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON K1Y 4E9, Canada.

A cost-utility analysis was performed based on the Rethinking Clinical Trials 
(REaCT) bone-targeted agents (BTA) clinical trial that compared 12-weekly (once 
every 12 weeks) (n = 130) versus 4-weekly (once every 4 weeks) (n = 133) BTA 
dosing for metastatic breast and castration-resistant prostate (CRPC) cancer. 
Using a decision tree model, we calculated treatment and symptomatic skeletal 
event (SSE) costs as well as quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for each 
treatment option. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
performed to assess the robustness of the study findings. The total cost of BTA 
treatment in Canadian dollars (C$) and estimated QALYs was C$8965.03 and 0.605 
QALY in the 4-weekly group versus C$5669.95 and 0.612 QALY in the 12-weekly 
group, respectively. De-escalation from 4-weekly to 12-weekly BTA reduces cost 
(C$3293.75) and improves QALYs by 0.008 unit, suggesting that 12-weekly BTA 
dominates 4-weekly BTA in breast and CRPC patients with bone metastases. 
Sensitivity analysis suggests high levels of uncertainty in the 
cost-effectiveness findings. De-escalation of bone-targeted agents is 
cost-effective from the Canadian public payer's perspective.

DOI: 10.3390/curroncol28030171
PMCID: PMC8161812
PMID: 34068083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M.C. is a coauthor of both the American Society 
of Clinical Oncology—Cancer Care Ontario Focused Guideline on the role of 
bone-modifying agents in metastatic breast cancer and the UpToDate chapter on 
osteoclast inhibitors for patients with bone metastases from breast, prostate, 
and other solid tumors. M.M. participates on the advisory boards for Novartis, 
Pfizer, and Seattle Genetics Canada and is a member of the ASCO adjuvant 
bisphosphonate guideline group. T.L.N. has received honoraria from Takeda 
Oncology, ARIAD, and Boehringer-Ingelheim, outside of this work. All other 
authors declare no conflicts of interest.


491. Genes (Basel). 2021 May 13;12(5):734. doi: 10.3390/genes12050734.

The Molecular Basis of Calcium and Phosphorus Inherited Metabolic Disorders.

Papadopoulou A(1), Bountouvi E(1), Karachaliou FE(1).

Author information:
(1)Third Department of Pediatrics, University General Hospital "ATTIKON", 
Medical School, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, 124 62 Athens, 
Greece.

Calcium (Ca) and Phosphorus (P) hold a leading part in many skeletal and 
extra-skeletal biological processes. Their tight normal range in serum mirrors 
their critical role in human well-being. The signalling "voyage" starts at 
Calcium Sensing Receptor (CaSR) localized on the surface of the parathyroid 
glands, which captures the "oscillations" of extracellular ionized Ca and 
transfers the signal downstream. Parathyroid hormone (PTH), Vitamin D, 
Fibroblast Growth Factor (FGF23) and other receptors or ion-transporters, work 
synergistically and establish a highly regulated signalling circuit between the 
bone, kidneys, and intestine to ensure the maintenance of Ca and P homeostasis. 
Any deviation from this well-orchestrated scheme may result in mild or severe 
pathologies expressed by biochemical and/or clinical features. Inherited 
disorders of Ca and P metabolism are rare. However, delayed diagnosis or 
misdiagnosis may cost patient's quality of life or even life expectancy. 
Unravelling the thread of the molecular pathways involving Ca and P signaling, 
we can better understand the link between genetic alterations and biochemical 
and/or clinical phenotypes and help in diagnosis and early therapeutic 
intervention.

DOI: 10.3390/genes12050734
PMCID: PMC8153134
PMID: 34068220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


492. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 May 10;18(9):5031. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18095031.

Physicians' and Nurses' Knowledge in Palliative Care: Multidimensional 
Regression Models.

Martín-Martín J(1), López-García M(1)(2), Medina-Abellán MD(3), Beltrán-Aroca 
CM(4), Martín-de-Las-Heras S(1), Rubio L(1), Pérez-Cárceles MD(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Anatomy and Legal Medicine, Instituto de Investigación 
Biomédica de Málaga (IBIMA), School of Medicine, University of Málaga, 29071 
Málaga, Spain.
(2)Fundación CUDECA, Benalmádena, 29631 Málaga, Spain.
(3)Health Center in Espinardo, Health Service, 30100 Murcia, Spain.
(4)Sección de Medicina Legal y Forense, Facultad de Medicina y Enfermería, 
Universidad de Córdoba, 14004 Córdoba, Spain.
(5)Department of Legal and Forensic Medicine, School of Medicine, Biomedical 
Research Institute (IMIB-Arrixaca), University of Murcia, 30100 Murcia, Spain.

The increase in life expectancy has led to a growth in the number of people in 
need of palliative care. Health professionals must possess appropriate knowledge 
and skills. This study aimed to assess knowledge in palliative care through the 
Palliative Care Knowledge Test Spanish Version (PCKT-SV)®. A cross-sectional 
analytical study was conducted in 40 primary care health services. A total of 
600 PCKT-SV questionnaires were distributed among health professionals; 561 of 
them (226 nurses and 335 physicians) were properly filled up. Sociodemographic 
information, education, and work experience were also recorded. A total of 
34.41% of the nurses and 67.40% of the physicians showed good or excellent 
knowledge of palliative care. Physicians' scores for pain, dyspnea, and 
psychiatric disorders were higher than those of the nurses. Nurses scored 
significantly better in philosophy. Professionals with continuous training in 
palliative care showed a higher level of knowledge. Age and work experience of 
physicians and undergraduate training in nurses had significant weight in 
knowledge. Developing continuous training and enhancing undergraduate training 
in palliative care will lead to improved patient care at the end of life.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18095031
PMCID: PMC8126108
PMID: 34068622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


493. Antibiotics (Basel). 2021 May 10;10(5):554. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics10050554.

Phage PPPL-1, A New Biological Agent to Control Bacterial Canker Caused by 
Pseudomonas syringae pv. actinidiae in Kiwifruit.

Song YR(1), Vu NT(1), Park J(1), Hwang IS(1), Jeong HJ(2), Cho YS(2), Oh 
CS(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Horticultural Biotechnology, College of Life Science, Kyung Hee 
University, Yongin 17104, Korea.
(2)Fruit Research Institute, Jeollanamdo Agricultural Research and Extension 
Services, Haenam-gun 59021, Korea.
(3)Graduate School of Biotechnology, Kyung Hee University, Yongin 17104, Korea.

Pseudomonas syringae pv. actinidiae (Psa) is a Gram-negative bacterium that 
causes bacterial canker disease in kiwifruit. Copper or antibiotics have been 
used in orchards to control this disease, but the recent emergence of 
antibiotic-resistant Psa has called for the development of a new control agent. 
We previously reported that the bacteriophage (or phage) PPPL-1 showed 
antibacterial activity for both biovar 2 and 3 of Psa. To investigate the 
possibility of PPPL-1 to control bacterial canker in kiwifruit, we further 
tested the efficacy of PPPL-1 and its phage cocktail with two other phages on 
suppressing disease development under greenhouse conditions using 6 weeks old 
kiwifruit plants. Our results showed that the disease control efficacy of PPPL-1 
treatment was statistically similar to those of phage cocktail treatment or 
AgrimycinTM, which contains streptomycin and oxytetracycline antibiotics as 
active ingredients. Moreover, PPPL-1 could successfully kill 
streptomycin-resistant Psa isolates, of which the treatment of BuramycinTM 
carrying only streptomycin as an active ingredient had no effect in vitro. The 
phage PPPL-1 was further characterized, and stability assays showed that the 
phage was stable in the field soil and at low temperature of 0 ± 2 °C. In 
addition, the phage could be scaled up quickly up to 1010 pfu/mL at 12 h later 
from initial multiplicity of infection of 0.000005. Our results indicate that 
PPPL-1 phage is a useful candidate as a biocontrol agent and could be a tool to 
control the bacterial canker in kiwifruit by Psa infection in the field 
conditions.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics10050554
PMCID: PMC8150970
PMID: 34068711

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


494. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 May 19;22(10):5361. doi: 10.3390/ijms22105361.

A 3D Renal Proximal Tubule on Chip Model Phenocopies Lowe Syndrome and Dent II 
Disease Tubulopathy.

Naik S(1)(2), Wood AR(1), Ongenaert M(3), Saidiyan P(2), Elstak ED(2), Lanz 
HL(4), Stallen J(2), Janssen R(2), Smythe E(1), Erdmann KS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Science, Centre of Membrane Interactions and 
Dynamics, University of Sheffield, Western Bank, Sheffield S10 2TN, UK.
(2)Galapagos BV, Zernikedreef 16, 2333 CL Leiden, The Netherlands.
(3)Galapagos NV, Generaal de Wittelaan L11, A3, 2800 Mechelen, Belgium.
(4)Mimetas BV, J.H. Oortweg 19, 2333 CH Leiden, The Netherlands.

Lowe syndrome and Dent II disease are X-linked monogenetic diseases 
characterised by a renal reabsorption defect in the proximal tubules and caused 
by mutations in the OCRL gene, which codes for an inositol-5-phosphatase. The 
life expectancy of patients suffering from Lowe syndrome is largely reduced 
because of the development of chronic kidney disease and related complications. 
There is a need for physiological human in vitro models for Lowe syndrome/Dent 
II disease to study the underpinning disease mechanisms and to identify and 
characterise potential drugs and drug targets. Here, we describe a proximal 
tubule organ on chip model combining a 3D tubule architecture with fluid flow 
shear stress that phenocopies hallmarks of Lowe syndrome/Dent II disease. We 
demonstrate the high suitability of our in vitro model for drug target 
validation. Furthermore, using this model, we demonstrate that proximal tubule 
cells lacking OCRL expression upregulate markers typical for 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), including the transcription factor 
SNAI2/Slug, and show increased collagen expression and deposition, which 
potentially contributes to interstitial fibrosis and disease progression as 
observed in Lowe syndrome and Dent II disease.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22105361
PMCID: PMC8161077
PMID: 34069732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: H.L.L. is an employee of Mimetas BV, which 
markets the OrganoPlate. OrganoPlate is a registered trademark of Mimetas BV. 
The authors have no additional financial interests.


495. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 May 25;18(11):5653. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18115653.

The Identification and Referral to Improve Safety Programme and the Prevention 
of Intimate Partner Violence.

Akbari AR(1), Alam B(1), Ageed A(1), Tse CY(1), Henry A(2).

Author information:
(1)Medical School, The University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 
9PL, UK.
(2)Trauma & Orthopaedics, Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, Salford M6 8HD, 
UK.

Introduction: Intimate Partner Violence (IPV) is a global epidemic which 30% of 
women experience world-wide. Domestic violence has serious health consequences, 
with an estimated cost of 1.7 billion annually to the NHS. However, healthcare 
professionals remain uncertain on how to manage IPV. In 2007, the Identification 
and Referral to Improve Safety (IRIS) was introduced within primary care to 
address this shortcoming. The aim of this project is to analyse the impact of 
IRIS, whilst discussing the extension into secondary care. Materials and 
Methods: A literature review was conducted using PubMed, Cochrane Library and 
Google scholar. The official IRIS publication list for randomized controlled 
trial data. Results: General practices with IRIS displayed a threefold increase 
in the identification of IPV and sevenfold increase in referrals. IRIS is 
cost-effective and under the NICE threshold of GBP 20,000 per quality-adjusted 
life year gained. Additionally, a systematic review illustrated that one in six 
women presenting to the fracture clinic experienced IPV within the last year. 
Conclusions: The implementation of IRIS into general practice proved to be 
cost-effective. Orthopaedic fracture clinics are at the forefront of dealing 
with IPV, and therefore an adapted IRIS programme within this setting has 
potential in the prevention of IPV.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18115653
PMCID: PMC8199171
PMID: 34070518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


496. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 May 27;22(11):5702. doi: 10.3390/ijms22115702.

Design and Evaluation of (223)Ra-Labeled and Anti-PSMA Targeted NaA Nanozeolites 
for Prostate Cancer Therapy-Part II. Toxicity, Pharmacokinetics and 
Biodistribution.

Lankoff A(1)(2), Czerwińska M(1), Walczak R(3), Karczmarczyk U(4), Tomczyk K(4), 
Brzóska K(1), Fracasso G(5), Garnuszek P(4), Mikołajczak R(4), Kruszewski 
M(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Radiobiology and Biological Dosimetry, Institute of Nuclear 
Chemistry and Technology, Dorodna 16, 03-195 Warsaw, Poland.
(2)Department of Medical Biology, Institute of Biology, Jan Kochanowski 
University, Uniwersytecka 7, 24-406 Kielce, Poland.
(3)Centre of Radiochemistry and Nuclear Chemistry, Institute of Nuclear 
Chemistry and Technology, Dorodna 16, 03-195 Warsaw, Poland.
(4)National Centre for Nuclear Research, Radioisotope Centre POLATOM, Sołtana 7, 
05-400 Otwock, Poland.
(5)Department of Medicine, University of Verona, 37129 Verona, Italy.
(6)Department of Molecular Biology and Translational Research, Institute of 
Rural Health, Jaczewskiego 2, 20-090 Lublin, Poland.

Metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) is a progressive and 
incurable disease with poor prognosis for patients. Despite introduction of 
novel therapies, the mortality rate remains high. An attractive alternative for 
extension of the life of mCRPC patients is PSMA-based targeted 
radioimmunotherapy. In this paper, we extended our in vitro study of 
223Ra-labeled and PSMA-targeted NaA nanozeolites [223RaA-silane-PEG-D2B] by 
undertaking comprehensive preclinical in vitro and in vivo research. The 
toxicity of the new compound was evaluated in LNCaP C4-2, DU-145, RWPE-1 and 
HPrEC prostate cells and in BALB/c mice. The tissue distribution of 133Ba- and 
223Ra-labeled conjugates was studied at different time points after injection in 
BALB/c and LNCaP C4-2 tumor-bearing BALB/c Nude mice. No obvious symptoms of 
antibody-free and antibody-functionalized nanocarriers cytotoxicity and 
immunotoxicity was found, while exposure to 223Ra-labeled conjugates resulted in 
bone marrow fibrosis, decreased the number of WBC and platelets and elevated 
serum concentrations of ALT and AST enzymes. Biodistribution studies revealed 
high accumulation of 223Ra-labeled conjugates in the liver, lungs, spleen and 
bone tissue. Nontargeted and PSMA-targeted radioconjugates exhibited a similar, 
marginal uptake in tumour lesions. In conclusion, despite the fact that NaA 
nanozeolites are safe carriers, the intravenous administration of NaA 
nanozeolite-based radioconjugates is dubious due to its high accumulation in the 
lungs, liver, spleen and bones.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22115702
PMCID: PMC8198605
PMID: 34071854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


497. Cancers (Basel). 2021 May 27;13(11):2636. doi: 10.3390/cancers13112636.

New DNA Methylation Signals for Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma Risk Assessment.

Cugliari G(1), Allione A(1), Russo A(1), Catalano C(1), Casalone E(1), Guarrera 
S(2)(3), Grosso F(4), Ferrante D(5)(6), Sculco M(7), La Vecchia M(7), Pirazzini 
C(8), Libener R(9), Mirabelli D(10)(11), Magnani C(5)(6)(11), Dianzani I(7)(11), 
Matullo G(1)(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, University of Turin, 10126 Turin, Italy.
(2)Italian Institute for Genomic Medicine, IIGM, 10060 Candiolo, Italy.
(3)Candiolo Cancer Institute, FPO-IRCCS, 10060 Candiolo, Italy.
(4)Mesothelioma Unit, Azienda Ospedaliera SS. Antonio e Biagio e Cesare Arrigo, 
15121 Alessandria, Italy.
(5)Medical Statistics, Department of Translational Medicine, University of 
Eastern Piedmont, 28100 Novara, Italy.
(6)Cancer Epidemiology Unit, CPO-Piemonte, 28100 Novara, Italy.
(7)Department of Health Sciences, University of Eastern Piedmont, 28100 Novara, 
Italy.
(8)IRCCS Istituto delle Scienze Neurologiche di Bologna, 40126 Bologna, Italy.
(9)Department of Integrated Activities Research and Innovation-Azienda 
Ospedaliera SS. Antonio e Biagio e Cesare Arrigo, 15122 Alessandria, Italy.
(10)Cancer Epidemiology Unit, Department of Medical Sciences, University of 
Turin, 10126 Turin, Italy.
(11)Interdepartmental Center for Studies on Asbestos and Other Toxic 
Particulates "G. Scansetti", University of Turin, 10126 Turin, Italy.
(12)Medical Genetics Unit, AOU Città della Salute e della Scienza, 10126 Turin, 
Italy.

Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a rare and aggressive neoplasm. Patients 
are usually diagnosed when current treatments have limited benefits, 
highlighting the need for noninvasive tests aimed at an MPM risk assessment tool 
that might improve life expectancy. Three hundred asbestos-exposed subjects (163 
MPM cases and 137 cancer-free controls), from the same geographical region in 
Italy, were recruited. The evaluation of asbestos exposure was conducted 
considering the frequency, the duration and the intensity of occupational, 
environmental and domestic exposure. A genome-wide methylation array was 
performed to identify novel blood DNA methylation (DNAm) markers of MPM. 
Multiple regression analyses adjusting for potential confounding factors and 
interaction between asbestos exposure and DNAm on the MPM odds ratio were 
applied. Epigenome-wide analysis (EWAS) revealed 12 single-CpGs associated with 
the disease. Two of these showed high statistical power (99%) and effect size 
(>0.05) after false discovery rate (FDR) multiple comparison corrections: (i) 
cg03546163 in FKBP5, significantly hypomethylated in cases (Mean Difference in 
beta values (MD) = -0.09, 95% CI = -0.12|-0.06, p = 1.2 × 10-7), and (ii) 
cg06633438 in MLLT1, statistically hypermethylated in cases (MD = 0.07, 95% CI = 
0.04|0.10, p = 1.0 × 10-6). Based on the interaction analysis, asbestos exposure 
and epigenetic profile together may improve MPM risk assessment. Above-median 
asbestos exposure and hypomethylation of cg03546163 in FKBP5 (OR = 20.84, 95% CI 
= 8.71|53.96, p = 5.5 × 10-11) and hypermethylation of cg06633438 in MLLT1 (OR = 
11.71, 95% CI = 4.97|29.64, p = 5.9 × 10-8) genes compared to below-median 
asbestos exposure and hyper/hypomethylation of single-CpG DNAm, respectively. 
Receiver Operation Characteristics (ROC) for Case-Control Discrimination showed 
a significant increase in MPM discrimination when DNAm information was added in 
the model (baseline model, BM: asbestos exposure, age, gender and white blood 
cells); area under the curve, AUC = 0.75; BM + cg03546163 at FKBP5. AUC = 0.89, 
2.1 × 10-7; BM + cg06633438 at MLLT1. AUC = 0.89, 6.3 × 10-8. Validation and 
replication procedures, considering independent sample size and a different DNAm 
analysis technique, confirmed the observed associations. Our results suggest the 
potential application of DNAm profiles in blood to develop noninvasive tests for 
MPM risk assessment in asbestos-exposed subjects.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers13112636
PMCID: PMC8199167
PMID: 34071989

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interest.


498. Sensors (Basel). 2021 May 27;21(11):3740. doi: 10.3390/s21113740.

Design and Calibration of a Hall Effect System for Measurement of 
Six-Degree-of-Freedom Motion within a Stacked Column.

Oddbjornsson O(1), Kloukinas P(2), Gokce T(3), Bourne K(3), Horseman T(3), 
Dihoru L(3), Dietz M(3), White RE(3), Crewe AJ(3), Taylor CA(3).

Author information:
(1)EFLA Consulting Engineers, Lynghals 4, 110 Reykjavik, Iceland.
(2)Department of Civil Engineering, School of Engineering, University of 
Greenwich, Central Avenue, Chatham Maritime, Kent ME4 4TB, UK.
(3)Earthquake and Geotechnical Engineering Group, Faculty of Engineering, 
University of Bristol, University Walk, Bristol BS8 1TR, UK.

This paper presents the design, development and evaluation of a unique 
non-contact instrumentation system that can accurately measure the interface 
displacement between two rigid components in six degrees of freedom. The system 
was developed to allow measurement of the relative displacements between 
interfaces within a stacked column of brick-like components, with an accuracy of 
0.05 mm and 0.1 degrees. The columns comprised up to 14 components, with each 
component being a scale model of a graphite brick within an Advanced Gas-cooled 
Reactor core. A set of 585 of these columns makes up the Multi Layer Array, 
which was designed to investigate the response of the reactor core to seismic 
inputs, with excitation levels up to 1 g from 0 to 100 Hz. The nature of the 
application required a compact and robust design capable of accurately recording 
fully coupled motion in all six degrees of freedom during dynamic testing. The 
novel design implemented 12 Hall effect sensors with a calibration procedure 
based on system identification techniques. The measurement uncertainty was 
±0.050 mm for displacement and ±0.052 degrees for rotation, and the system can 
tolerate loss of data from two sensors with the uncertainly increasing to only 
0.061 mm in translation and 0.088 degrees in rotation. The system has been 
deployed in a research programme that has enabled EDF to present seismic safety 
cases to the Office for Nuclear Regulation, resulting in life extension 
approvals for several reactors. The measurement system developed could be 
readily applied to other situations where the imposed level of stress at the 
interface causes negligible material strain, and accurate non-contact 
six-degree-of-freedom interface measurement is required.

DOI: 10.3390/s21113740
PMCID: PMC8198809
PMID: 34072278

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
sponsors provided funding to allow the development of this new sensor technique 
by the authors, but had no role in the design, implementation, or validation of 
the technique. The views expressed in this paper are those of the authors and do 
not necessarily represent those of EDF.


499. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 May 29;18(11):5839. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18115839.

Why a New Research Agenda on Green Spaces and Health Is Needed in Latin America: 
Results of a Systematic Review.

Rojas-Rueda D(1), Vaught E(2), Buss D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental and Radiological Health Sciences, Colorado State 
University, 1601 Campus Delivery, Fort Collins, CO 80523, USA.
(2)Pan American Health Organization, 525 23rd Street NW, Washington, DC 20037, 
USA.

(1) Background: Increasing and improving green spaces have been suggested to 
enhance health and well-being through different mechanisms. Latin America is 
experiencing fast population and urbanization growth; with rising demand for 
interventions to improve public health and mitigate climate change. (2) Aim: 
This study aimed to review the epidemiological evidence on green spaces and 
health outcomes in Latin America. (3) Methods: A systematic literature review of 
green spaces and health outcomes was carried out for studies published in Latin 
America before 28 September 2020. A search strategy was designed to identify 
studies published in Medline via PubMed and LILACS. The search strategy included 
terms related to green spaces combined with keywords related to health and 
geographical location. No time limit for the publication was chosen. The search 
was limited to English, Spanish, Portuguese, and French published articles and 
humans' studies. (4) Findings: This systematic review found 19 epidemiological 
studies in Latin America related to green spaces and health outcomes. Nine 
studies were conducted in Brazil, six in Mexico, three in Colombia, and one in 
Chile. In terms of study design, 14 were cross-sectional studies, 3 ecological, 
and 2 cohort studies. The population included among the studies ranged from 120 
persons to 103 million. The green space definition used among studies was green 
density or proximity (eight studies), green presence (five studies), green 
spaces index (four studies), and green space visit (two studies). The health 
outcomes included were mental health (six studies), overweight and obesity 
(three studies), quality of life (three studies), mortality (two studies), 
cardiorespiratory disease (one study), disability (one study), falls (one 
study), and life expectancy (one study). Eleven studies found a positive 
association between green spaces and health, and eight studies found no 
association. (5) Conclusion: This systematic review identified 19 
epidemiological studies associating green spaces and health outcomes in Latin 
America. Most of the evidence suggests a positive association between green 
spaces and health in the region. However, most of the evidence was supported by 
cross-sectional studies. Prioritizing longitudinal studies with harmonized 
exposure and outcome definitions and including vulnerable and susceptible 
populations is needed in the region.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18115839
PMCID: PMC8198896
PMID: 34072319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no competing financial interests. 
Authors hold sole responsibility for the views expressed in the manuscript, 
which may not necessarily reflect the opinion or policy of PAHO.


500. Foods. 2021 May 29;10(6):1241. doi: 10.3390/foods10061241.

Shelf Life Extension of Chilled Pork by Optimal Ultrasonicated Ceylon Spinach 
(Basella alba) Extracts: Physicochemical and Microbial Properties.

Phimolsiripol Y(1)(2), Buadoktoom S(1), Leelapornpisid P(3), Jantanasakulwong 
K(1)(2), Seesuriyachan P(1)(2), Chaiyaso T(1)(2), Leksawasdi N(1)(2), 
Rachtanapun P(1)(2), Chaiwong N(1)(2), Sommano SR(2)(4), Brennan CS(5), 
Regenstein JM(6).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Agro-Industry, Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai 50100, Thailand.
(2)Cluster of Agro Bio-Circular-Green Industry, Chiang Mai University, Chiang 
Mai 50100, Thailand.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy, Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai 50200, Thailand.
(4)Faculty of Agriculture, Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai 50200, Thailand.
(5)School of Science, STEM College, RMIT University, Melbourne 3000, Australia.
(6)Department of Food Science, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853-7201, USA.

The effect of ultrasonication on the antioxidant and antibacterial properties of 
Ceylon spinach (Basella alba) extracts (CE) and the shelf life of chilled pork 
with CE were studied. The CE were ultrasonicated at different power levels 
(60-100%) for 10-40 min in an ultrasonic bath with the rise of antioxidant 
activities (p ≤ 0.05) proportional to the ultrasonication time. The additional 
investigation of antibacterial activities showed that the ultrasonicated 
extracts (100 mg/mL) could inhibit and inactivate Staphylococcus aureus and 
Escherichia coli with the optimal condition of 80% power for 40 min. For 
shelf-life testing, fresh pork treated with the ultrasonicated extracts at 100 
and 120 mg/mL had lower values of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances 
(TBARS) than the control (without dipping). For food safety as measured by the 
total microbial count, the fresh pork dipped with 100-120 mg/mL CE extract could 
be kept at 0 °C for 7 days, 2 to 3 days longer than control meat at 0 and 4 °C, 
respectively. A sensory evaluation using a nine-point hedonic scale showed that 
fresh pork dipped with 100-mg/mL CE extracts was accepted by consumers. It is 
suggested that CE extracts can be applied in the food industry to enhance the 
quality and extend the shelf life of meat products.

DOI: 10.3390/foods10061241
PMCID: PMC8227812
PMID: 34072425

Conflict of interest statement: All the authors declare that they have no 
conflict of interest.


501. Healthcare (Basel). 2021 May 31;9(6):656. doi: 10.3390/healthcare9060656.

Systematic Analysis of Literature on the Marketing of Healthcare Systems. 
Challenges for Russian and Romanian Healthcare Systems.

Bulatnikov V(1), Constantin CP(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Economic Sciences and Business Administration, Transilvania 
University of Brasov, 500068 Brasov, Romania.

This paper aims at finding the most dominant ideas about the marketing of 
healthcare systems highlighted in the mainstream literature, with a focus on 
Russia and Romania. To reach this goal, a systematic analysis of literature was 
conducted and various competitive advantages and disadvantages of the medical 
models that require special attention from the governments are considered. In 
this respect we examined 106 papers published during 2006 to 2020 found on four 
scientific databases. They were selected using inclusion and exclusion criteria 
according to PRISMA methodology. The main findings of the research consist of 
the opportunity to use marketing tools in order to improve the quality of 
healthcare systems in the named countries. Thus, using market orientation, the 
managers of healthcare systems could stimulate the innovation, the efficiency of 
funds allocation and the quality of medical services. The results will lead to a 
better quality of population life and to an increasing of life expectancy. As 
this paper reviews some articles from Russian literature, it can add a new 
perspective to the topic. These outcomes have implications for government, 
business environment, and academia, which should cooperate in order to develop 
the healthcare system using marketing strategies.

DOI: 10.3390/healthcare9060656
PMCID: PMC8227377
PMID: 34072958

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest in 
this study.


502. Med Sci (Basel). 2021 May 24;9(2):35. doi: 10.3390/medsci9020035.

Rapid Decrease in HDL-C in the Puberty Period of Boys Associated with an 
Elevation of Blood Pressure and Dyslipidemia in Korean Teenagers: An Explanation 
of Why and When Men Have Lower HDL-C Levels Than Women.

Cho KH(1)(2)(3), Kim JR(3).

Author information:
(1)Korea Research Institute of Lipoproteins, Medical Innovation Complex, Daegu 
41061, Korea.
(2)LipoLab, Yeungnam University, Gyeongsan 38541, Korea.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Smart-Aging Convergence 
Research Center, College of Medicine, Yeungnam University, Daegu 42415, Korea.

Low serum high-density lipoproteins-cholesterol (HDL-C) levels and high blood 
pressure are linked to each other and are recognized as independent risk factors 
of cardiovascular disease and dementia. HDL can cross the blood-brain barrier to 
remove amyloid plaque and the blood-testis barrier to supply cholesterol for 
spermatogenesis, but LDL cannot. During the teenage period, between 10 and 19 
years of age, the systolic blood pressure (BP) increased gradually to 7.9% in 
boys (p < 0.001), but not in girls (p = 0.141). The boys' group showed a 
remarkable decrease in the total cholesterol (TC) and HDL-C from 10 to 15 years 
of age (p < 0.001). After then, the TC level increased again at 19 years of age 
to the previous level (p < 0.001). On the other hand, the HDL-C level at 19 
years of age in the boys' group was not restored to the previous level at 10 
years of age. The girls' group maintained similar TC (p < 0.001) and HDL-C (p < 
0.001) levels from 10 to 19 years of age. These results suggest there was a 
remarkable difference in cholesterol consumption, particularly in the HDL-C 
level between boys and girls during the pubertal period. Correlation analysis 
showed an inverse association between the HDL-C level and SBP in boys (r = 
-0.133, p < 0.001) and girls (r = -0.065, p = 0.009) from 10 to 19 years of age. 
Interestingly, only the boys' group showed an inverse association with the 
diastolic BP (r = -0.122, p < 0.001); the girls' group did not have such an 
association (r = -0.016, p = 0.516). In conclusion, the boys' group showed a 
sharp decrease in the HDL-C level from 10 to 15 years of age, whereas the girls' 
group showed an increase in the HDL-C level during the same period. These 
results explain why men have a lower serum HDL-C level than women in adulthood.

DOI: 10.3390/medsci9020035
PMCID: PMC8163168
PMID: 34074048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


503. Eur J Clin Pharmacol. 2021 Nov;77(11):1665-1672. doi: 
10.1007/s00228-021-03163-4. Epub 2021 Jun 2.

Cost effectiveness of antihypertensive drugs and treatment guidelines.

Kučan M(1), Lulić I(2), Pelčić JM(3), Mozetič V(4), Vitezić D(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Primorje-Gorski Kotar County Community Health Centre, Rijeka, Croatia. 
marta.kucan@ri.t-com.hr.
(2)Faculty of Engineering, University of Rijeka, Rijeka, Croatia.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, University of Rijeka, Rijeka, Croatia.
(4)Primorje-Gorski Kotar County Community Health Centre, Rijeka, Croatia.
(5)University Hospital Centre Rijeka, Rijeka, Croatia.

PURPOSE: Arterial hypertension (AH) is associated with a high economic burden 
for the individual patient and for society in general. The study evaluates 
antihypertensives and their cost-effectiveness, comparing diuretics (D), 
beta-blockers (B), angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors/angiotensin-II 
receptor blockers (A) and calcium channel blockers (C) with no intervention 
(NI).
METHODS: The study included five health states in a Markov model. Cost values 
included average cost of the drugs used, treatment in hospital and treatment in 
general practice (collected from Croatian Health Insurance Fund). The study was 
conducted separately for 65-year old men and women, with an initial probability 
of cardiovascular death risk of 2% and heart failure risk of 1%. The results 
were presented in terms of increase in QALYs and associated financial savings or 
costs in euros (€).
RESULTS: Results for men (compared with NI): treatment with D resulted in a QALY 
increase of 0.76 and €886 in savings, treatment with C in an increase of 0.74 
QALYs and €767 in savings, treatment with A in an increase of 0.69 QALYs and 
€834 in savings, treatment with B resulted in an increase of 0.40 QALYs, but 
with an additional cost of €41. Results for women (compared with NI): treatment 
with D resulted in an increase of 0.93 QALYs and €987 in savings, treatment with 
C in an increase of 0.89 QALYs and savings of €855, treatment with A in an 
increase of 0.86 QALYs and savings of €991, treatment with B in an increase of 
0.48 QALYs, but with an additional cost of €148.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment of AH with D, C and A is cost effective compared with the 
no-intervention scenario. Diuretics are the most cost-effective first-line 
treatment. The scenario with beta-blockers resulted in additional QALY when 
compared with no intervention, but also additional costs; therefore, based on 
our results, this therapy would not be recommended as first-line treatment.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00228-021-03163-4
PMID: 34075437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Expert Rev Hematol. 2021 Jun;14(6):577-585. doi:
10.1080/17474086.2021.1938534.  Epub 2021 Jun 14.

Measuring prognosis in chronic myeloid leukemia: what's new?

Breccia M(1), Efficace F(2), Scalzulli E(1), Ciotti G(1), Maestrini G(1), 
Colafigli G(1), Martelli M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Translational and Precision Medicine, Az. Policlinico Umberto 
I-Sapienza University, Rome, Italy.
(2)Italian Group for Adult Hematologic Diseases (GIMEMA), Data Center and Health 
Outcomes Research Unit, Rome, Italy.

Introduction: The outcome of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients in chronic 
phase has changed after the introduction of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). 
The life expectancy is actually similar to that of the general population. 
Prognostic stratification at baseline is part of a patient-centered approach to 
decide the best therapeutic approach.Areas covered: In this review, the current 
prognostic factors examined at baseline are detailed and the meaning is 
explained. A broad research on Medline, Embase and archives from EHA and ASH 
congresses, was performed. Prognostic factors have been divided into 
patient-related (age, gender, comorbidities, etc.) and disease-related 
(additional cytogenetic abnormalities, type of transcript, etc). New information 
about genomic data and the potential role of patient-reported outcomes is also 
discussed.Expert Opinion: Prognostic factors at baseline should be considered to 
evaluate the long-term probability of disease-related death, the possible 
toxicity, and the projected long-term overall survival. The genomic assessment 
would provide the basis for a genomic-based risk and help in oriented 
decision-making process.

DOI: 10.1080/17474086.2021.1938534
PMID: 34075852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Health Technol Assess. 2021 May;25(34):1-114. doi: 10.3310/hta25340.

Fall prevention interventions in primary care to reduce fractures and falls in 
people aged 70 years and over: the PreFIT three-arm cluster RCT.

Bruce J(1), Hossain A(1)(2), Lall R(1), Withers EJ(1), Finnegan S(1), Underwood 
M(1), Ji C(1), Bojke C(3), Longo R(3), Hulme C(4), Hennings S(1), Sheridan R(5), 
Westacott K(6), Ralhan S(7), Martin F(8), Davison J(9), Shaw F(9), Skelton 
DA(10), Treml J(11), Willett K(12), Lamb SE(1)(4)(13).

Author information:
(1)Warwick Clinical Trials Unit, Division of Health Sciences, University of 
Warwick, Coventry, UK.
(2)Institute of Statistical Research and Training, University of Dhaka, Dhaka, 
Bangladesh.
(3)Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(4)College of Medicine and Health, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK.
(5)General Medicine/Care of the Elderly, Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital, Royal 
Devon and Exeter NHS Foundation Trust, Exeter, UK.
(6)Elderly Care Department, Warwick Hospital, South Warwickshire NHS Foundation 
Trust, Warwick, UK.
(7)Gerontology Department, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford University Hospitals 
NHS Foundation Trust, Oxford, UK.
(8)St Thomas' Hospital, Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(9)Falls and Syncope Service, Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation 
Trust, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(10)Centre for Living, School of Health and Life Sciences, Glasgow Caledonian 
University, Glasgow, UK.
(11)Geriatric Medicine, Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham, University 
Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham, UK.
(12)Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal 
Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(13)Centre for Statistics in Medicine, Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, 
Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

BACKGROUND: Falls and fractures are a major problem.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
alternative falls prevention interventions.
DESIGN: Three-arm, pragmatic, cluster randomised controlled trial with parallel 
economic analysis. The unit of randomisation was the general practice.
SETTING: Primary care.
PARTICIPANTS: People aged ≥ 70 years.
INTERVENTIONS: All practices posted an advice leaflet to each participant. 
Practices randomised to active intervention arms (exercise and multifactorial 
falls prevention) screened participants for falls risk using a postal 
questionnaire. Active treatments were delivered to participants at higher risk 
of falling.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was fracture rate over 18 months, 
captured from Hospital Episode Statistics, general practice records and 
self-report. Secondary outcomes were falls rate, health-related quality of life, 
mortality, frailty and health service resource use. Economic evaluation was 
expressed in terms of incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year and 
incremental net monetary benefit.
RESULTS: Between 2011 and 2014, we randomised 63 general practices (9803 
participants): 21 practices (3223 participants) to advice only, 21 practices 
(3279 participants) to exercise and 21 practices (3301 participants) to 
multifactorial falls prevention. In the active intervention arms, 5779 out of 
6580 (87.8%) participants responded to the postal fall risk screener, of whom 
2153 (37.3%) were classed as being at higher risk of falling and invited for 
treatment. The rate of intervention uptake was 65% (697 out of 1079) in the 
exercise arm and 71% (762 out of 1074) in the multifactorial falls prevention 
arm. Overall, 379 out of 9803 (3.9%) participants sustained a fracture. There 
was no difference in the fracture rate between the advice and exercise arms 
(rate ratio 1.20, 95% confidence interval 0.91 to 1.59) or between the advice 
and multifactorial falls prevention arms (rate ratio 1.30, 95% confidence 
interval 0.99 to 1.71). There was no difference in falls rate over 18 months 
(exercise arm: rate ratio 0.99, 95% confidence interval 0.86 to 1.14; 
multifactorial falls prevention arm: rate ratio 1.13, 95% confidence interval 
0.98 to 1.30). A lower rate of falls was observed in the exercise arm at 8 
months (rate ratio 0.78, 95% confidence interval 0.64 to 0.96), but not at other 
time points. There were 289 (2.9%) deaths, with no differences by treatment arm. 
There was no evidence of effects in prespecified subgroup comparisons, nor in 
nested intention-to-treat analyses that considered only those at higher risk of 
falling. Exercise provided the highest expected quality-adjusted life-years 
(1.120), followed by advice and multifactorial falls prevention, with 1.106 and 
1.114 quality-adjusted life-years, respectively. NHS costs associated with 
exercise (£3720) were lower than the costs of advice (£3737) or of 
multifactorial falls prevention (£3941). Although incremental differences 
between treatment arms were small, exercise dominated advice, which in turn 
dominated multifactorial falls prevention. The incremental net monetary benefit 
of exercise relative to treatment valued at £30,000 per quality-adjusted 
life-year is modest, at £191, and for multifactorial falls prevention is £613. 
Exercise is the most cost-effective treatment. No serious adverse events were 
reported.
LIMITATIONS: The rate of fractures was lower than anticipated.
CONCLUSIONS: Screen-and-treat falls prevention strategies in primary care did 
not reduce fractures. Exercise resulted in a short-term reduction in falls and 
was cost-effective.
FUTURE WORK: Exercise is the most promising intervention for primary care. Work 
is needed to ensure adequate uptake and sustained effects.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN71002650.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research 
(NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in 
Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 25, No. 34. See the NIHR Journals Library 
website for further project information.

Plain Language Summary: WHAT IS THE PROBLEM? Falls are a major problem for older 
people. Current practice is to give people advice leaflets. Another approach is 
exercise, especially balance and strength training. A third alternative is to 
invite older people to attend a falls assessment with a health-care 
professional, either a doctor or a trained nurse. This usually involves a 
careful check of prescribed tablets, blood pressure, eyesight and other problems 
that might cause falls.
WHAT DID WE DO? We compared three strategies. We recruited 9803 people aged 
70–101 years from 63 general practices across England. We randomly allocated 
practices in clusters into three treatment groups. The participants in one group 
were given a Staying Steady advice leaflet (Age UK. Staying Steady. London: Age 
UK; 2009). Participants in the second group received the same leaflet and were 
assessed to see if they were at higher risk of falling. Those participants 
identified as being at higher risk (about 1000 people) were invited to take part 
in an exercise programme, supported by an exercise therapist. These people did 
balance and strength training at home for up to 6 months. In the third group, we 
again identified participants who were at higher risk of falling (about 1000 
people) and invited them for a detailed falls assessment with a trained nurse or 
doctor. This last group of participants were referred for other treatments if 
any health problems were found. In all groups we counted fractures and falls and 
measured changes in quality of life, frailty and the cost of the treatments over 
18 months of follow-up.
WHAT DID WE FIND OUT? We found no difference in the number of fractures over 18 
months between the different treatments. The exercise programme reduced falls in 
the short term but not over the longer term. The exercise programme was cheaper 
and led to a slightly better overall quality of life.

DOI: 10.3310/hta25340
PMCID: PMC8200932
PMID: 34075875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. J Mater Chem B. 2021 Jun 16;9(23):4710-4717. doi: 10.1039/d1tb00599e.

Bioadhesive metal-phenolic nanoparticles for enhanced NIR imaging-guided 
locoregional photothermal/antiangiogenic therapy.

Wang X(1), Li H(1), Meng F(1), Luo L(1).

Author information:
(1)National Engineering Research Center for Nanomedicine, College of Life 
Science and Technology, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 
430074, China. liangluo@hust.edu.cn fanlingmeng@hust.edu.cn.

Locoregional drug delivery has emerged as a promising solution to the problems 
associated with intravenously administered antitumor agents, such as systemic 
toxicity and insufficient drug accumulation at tumor sites. Herein, we have 
developed an adhesive nanoparticle (NP)-based drug delivery system, using 
natural bioadhesive tannic acid (TA) and metal ions (Fe3+), for locoregional 
photothermal and antiangiogenic synergistic cancer therapy. In this study, a new 
near-infrared (NIR) photothermal agent indocyanine green (IR820) and an 
antiangiogenic agent sorafenib (SRF) were co-encapsulated in a TA-Fe complex 
(SIF@TA-Fe). The SIF@TA-Fe NPs exhibited super adhesion, antiangiogenesis, and 
efficient cellular uptake. Moreover, SIF@TA-Fe NPs showed a synergistic 
antitumor effect in vivo, including high tumor inhibition rate, excellent 
survival extension, and low risk of recurrence, resulting from the prolonged 
retention of the NPs in the tumor. Thus, this adhesive SIF@TA-Fe NP-based 
therapeutic system provides a promising approach for locoregional drug delivery 
of combined cancer therapy.

DOI: 10.1039/d1tb00599e
PMID: 34076029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2021 Aug;217(2):304-313. doi: 10.2214/AJR.19.22694.
Epub  2021 Jun 2.

Best Practices: Imaging Strategies for Reduced-Dose Chest CT in the Management 
of Cystic Fibrosis-Related Lung Disease.

Sheahan KP(1), Glynn D(1), Joyce S(1), Maher MM(1), Boland F(2), O'Connor OJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Cork University Hospital, Wilton, Cork T12 DC4A, 
Ireland.
(2)Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, Dublin, Ireland.

OBJECTIVE. Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a multisystemic life-limiting disorder. The 
leading cause of morbidity in CF is chronic pulmonary disease. Chest CT is the 
reference standard for detection of bronchiectasis. Cumulative ionizing 
radiation limits the use of CT, particularly as treatments improve and life 
expectancy increases. The purpose of this article is to summarize the evidence 
on low-dose chest CT and its effect on image quality to determine best practices 
for imaging in CF. CONCLUSION. Low-dose chest CT is technically feasible, 
reduces dose, and renders satisfactory image quality. There are few comparison 
studies of low-dose chest CT and standard chest CT in CF; however, evidence 
suggests equivalent diagnostic capability. Low-dose chest CT with iterative 
reconstructive algorithms appears superior to chest radiography and equivalent 
to standard CT and has potential for early detection of bronchiectasis and 
infective exacerbations, because clinically significant abnormalities can 
develop in patients who do not have symptoms. Infection and inflammation remain 
the primary causes of morbidity requiring early intervention. Research gaps 
include the benefits of replacing chest radiography with low-dose chest CT in 
terms of improved diagnostic yield, clinical decision making, and patient 
outcomes. Longitudinal clinical studies comparing CT with MRI for the monitoring 
of CF lung disease may better establish the complementary strengths of these 
imaging modalities.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.19.22694
PMID: 34076456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. AIDS Rev. 2021 Dec 29;23(4):204-213. doi: 10.24875/AIDSRev.20000130.

"Moving Fourth": Introduction of a practical toolkit for shared decision-making 
to facilitate healthy living beyond HIV viral suppression.

Curran A(1), Arends J(2), Buhk T(3), Cascio M(4), Teofilo E(5), van den Berk 
G(6), Guaraldi G(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Vall d'Hebron University Hospital, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine and Infectious Diseases, University Medical 
Centre Utrecht, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(3)Centre for Infectious Diseases in Hamburg (ICH-Hamburg), Hamburg, Germany.
(4)European AIDS Treatment Group (EATG), Brussels, Belgium.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, Hospital Dos Capuchos, Lisbon, Portugal.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine, OLVG, City Hospital of Greater Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)Modena HIV Metabolic Clinic (MHMC), University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, 
Modena, Italy.

An extension of the UNAIDS 90-90-90 target proposes >90% of people living with 
HIV (PLHIV) should have good health-related quality of life (HrQoL); however, 
limited guidance exists. The "Health Goals for Me" framework, an individualized 
approach to HIV care, provides a framework to assess HrQoL. We analyzed several 
patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) to develop a practical toolkit to 
facilitate shared physician-patient decision-making. HrQoL subdomains, 
actionable in the clinical setting and measurable as PROMs, were selected. PROMs 
were collated through systematic literature searches, scored by the authors on 
usability, validation, and availability, after which practical recommendations 
were made. Nine subdomains were selected across physical, psychological, social, 
and environmental domains; 46 validated PROMs were identified. After 
pre-screening, from 39 evaluated PROMs, we recommended PROMs in the following 
subdomains: fatigue/energy loss, frailty/resilience, sleep disturbance, 
substance use, anxiety/depression, cognition, sexual function and desire, and 
stigma. Using this toolkit, healthcare professionals and PLHIV can collaborate 
and mutually agree on individual care objectives. Following the "Health Goals 
for Me" framework, appropriate care interventions can be implemented and 
reviewed in a continuous cycle. We discussed how eHealth interventions, which 
will have increasing importance in the post-COVID era, can facilitate improved 
HrQoL for PLHIV by utilizing toolkits such as the one described here. 
Implementation of this practical framework and the PROMs toolkit could provide a 
useful approach to assessing HrQoL in PLHIV and could enhance the physician's 
