Boehringer and Incyte Biosciences France, non-financial support from Acceleron, 
outside the submitted work. Conflict of interest: L. Savale has nothing to 
disclose. Conflict of interest: A. Beurnier reports personal fees from Sanofi, 
outside the submitted work. Conflict of interest: R. Colle has nothing to 
disclose. Conflict of interest: N. Noël has nothing to disclose. Conflict of 
interest: T. Pham has nothing to disclose. Conflict of interest: X. Monnet has 
nothing to disclose. Conflict of interest: M. Humbert reports grants and 
personal fees from Actelion and Bayer, personal fees from Acceleron, GSK, Merck, 
Novartis, AstraZeneca and Sanofi, outside the submitted work.


139. Front Pharmacol. 2021 Apr 20;12:653852. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2021.653852. 
eCollection 2021.

Neuroinflammation in HIV-Related Neuropathic Pain.

Lu HJ(1), Fu YY(1)(2), Wei QQ(3), Zhang ZJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pain Medicine and Special Environmental Medicine, Nantong 
University, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Department of Human Anatomy, School of Medicine, Nantong University, Nantong, 
China.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases, General Hospital of Tibet Military 
Command, Xizang, China.

In the management of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection around the 
world, chronic complications are becoming a new problem along with the prolonged 
life expectancy. Chronic pain is widespread in HIV infected patients and even 
affects those with a low viral load undergoing long-term treatment with 
antiviral drugs, negatively influencing the adherence to disease management and 
quality of life. A large proportion of chronic pain is neuropathic pain, which 
defined as chronic pain caused by nervous system lesions or diseases, presenting 
a series of nervous system symptoms including both positive and negative signs. 
Injury caused by HIV protein, central and peripheral sensitization, and side 
effects of antiretroviral therapy lead to neuroinflammation, which is regarded 
as a maladaptive mechanism originally serving to promote regeneration and 
healing, constituting the main mechanism of HIV-related neuropathic pain. Gp120, 
as HIV envelope protein, has been found to be the major toxin that induces 
neuropathic pain. Particularly, the microglia, releasing numerous 
pro-inflammatory substances (such as TNFα, IL-1β, and IL-6), not only sensitize 
the neurons but also are the center part of the crosstalk bridging the 
astrocytes and oligodendrocytes together forming the central sensitization 
during HIV infection, which is not discussed detailly in recent reviews. In the 
meantime, some NRTIs and PIs exacerbate the neuroinflammation response. In this 
review, we highlight the importance of clarifying the mechanism of HIV-related 
neuropathic pain, and discuss about the limitation of the related studies as 
future research directions.

Copyright © 2021 Lu, Fu, Wei and Zhang.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2021.653852
PMCID: PMC8093869
PMID: 33959022

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


140. Front Psychol. 2021 Apr 20;12:633959. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2021.633959. 
eCollection 2021.

Sleep and its Association With Pain and Depression in Nursing Home Patients With 
Advanced Dementia - a Cross-Sectional Study.

Blytt KM(1), Flo-Groeneboom E(2), Erdal A(1)(3), Bjorvatn B(4)(3), Husebo 
BS(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Caring Sciences, Western Norway University of 
Applied Sciences, Bergen, Norway.
(2)Faculty of Psychology, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.
(3)Norwegian Competence Center for Sleep Disorders, Haukeland University 
Hospital, Bergen, Norway.
(4)Department of Global Public Health and Primary Care, University of Bergen, 
Bergen, Norway.
(5)Centre for Elderly and Nursing Home Medicine, University of Bergen, Bergen, 
Norway.
(6)Municipality of Bergen, Norway.

Objective: Previous research suggests a positive association between pain, 
depression and sleep. In this study, we investigate how sleep correlates with 
varying levels of pain and depression in nursing home (NH) patients with 
dementia. Materials and methods: Cross-sectional study (n = 141) with 
sleep-related data, derived from two multicenter studies conducted in Norway. We 
included NH patients with dementia according to the Mini-Mental State 
Examination (MMSE ≤ 20) from the COSMOS trial (n = 46) and the DEP.PAIN.DEM 
trial (n = 95) whose sleep was objectively measured with actigraphy. In the 
COSMOS trial, NH patients were included if they were ≥65 years of age and with 
life expectancy >6 months. In the DEP.PAIN.DEM trial, patients were included if 
they were ≥60 years and if they had depression according to the Cornell Scale 
for Depression in Dementia (CSDD ≥ 8). In both studies, pain was assessed with 
the Mobilization-Observation-Behavior-Intensity-Dementia-2 Pain Scale (MOBID-2), 
and depression with CSDD. Sleep parameters were total sleep time (TST), sleep 
efficiency (SE), sleep onset latency (SOL), wake after sleep onset (WASO), early 
morning awakening (EMA), daytime total sleep time (DTS) and time in bed (TiB). 
We registered use of sedatives, analgesics, opioids and antidepressants from 
patient health records and adjusted for these medications in the analyses. 
Results: Mean age was 86.2 years and 76.3% were female. Hierarchical regressions 
showed that pain was associated with higher TST and SE (p < 0.05), less WASO (p 
< 0.01) and more DTS (p < 0.01). More severe dementia was associated with more 
WASO (p < 0.05) and TiB (p < 0.01). More severe depression was associated with 
less TST (p < 0.05), less DTS (p < 0.01) and less TiB (p < 0.01). Use of 
sedative medications was associated with less TiB (p < 0.05). Conclusion: When 
sleep was measured with actigraphy, NH patients with dementia and pain slept 
more than patients without pain, in terms of higher total sleep time. 
Furthermore, their sleep efficiency was higher, indicating that the patients had 
more sleep within the time they spent in bed. Patients with more severe dementia 
spent more time awake during the time spent in bed. Furthermore, people with 
more severe depression slept less at daytime and had less total sleep time 
Controlling for concomitant medication use did not affect the obtained results.

Copyright © 2021 Blytt, Flo-Groeneboom, Erdal, Bjorvatn and Husebo.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2021.633959
PMCID: PMC8093870
PMID: 33959072

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


141. Front Genet. 2021 Apr 20;12:627128. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2021.627128.
eCollection  2021.

Inter-Individual Diversity Scaling Analysis of the Human Virome With Classic 
Diversity-Area Relationship (DAR) Modeling.

Xiao W(1)(2), Ma ZS(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Computational Biology and Medical Ecology Laboratory, State Key Laboratory of 
Genetic Resources and Evolution, Kunming Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, Kunming, China.
(2)Kunming College of Life Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Kunming, China.
(3)Center for Excellence in Animal Evolution and Genetics, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Kunming, China.

The human virome is a critical component of the human microbiome, and it is 
believed to hold the richest diversity within human microbiomes. Yet, the 
inter-individual scaling (changes) of the human virome has not been formally 
investigated to the best of our knowledge. Here we fill the gap by applying 
diversity-area relationship (DAR) modeling (a recent extension to the classic 
species-area law in biodiversity and biogeography research) for analyzing four 
large datasets of the human virome with three DAR profiles: DAR scaling 
(z)-measuring the inter-individual heterogeneity in virome diversity, MAD 
(maximal accrual diversity: D max ) and LGD ratio (ratio of local diversity to 
global diversity)-measuring the percentage of individual to population level 
diversity. Our analyses suggest: (i) The diversity scaling parameter (z) is 
rather resilient against the diseases as indicated by the lack of significant 
differences between the healthy and diseased treatments. (ii) The potential 
maximal accrual diversity (D max ) is less resilient and may vary between the 
healthy and diseased groups or between different body sites. (iii) The LGD ratio 
of bacterial communities is much smaller than for viral communities, and relates 
to the comparatively greater heterogeneity between local vs. global diversity 
levels found for bacterial-biomes.

Copyright © 2021 Xiao and Ma.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2021.627128
PMCID: PMC8095712
PMID: 33959147

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


142. PeerJ. 2021 Apr 15;9:e11063. doi: 10.7717/peerj.11063. eCollection 2021.

Development of a single-chain fragment variable fused-mutant HALT-1 recombinant 
immunotoxin against G12V mutated KRAS colorectal cancer cells.

Teo MYM(1), Ng JJC(1), Fong JY(1), Hwang JS(2), Song AA(3), Lim RLH(1), In 
LLA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Applied Sciences, UCSI University, 
Cheras, Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Medical Sciences, School of Medical and Life Sciences, Sunway 
University, Bandar Sunway, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Biotechnology and Biomolecular 
Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, UPM Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.

BACKGROUND: KRAS oncogenes harboring codon G12 and G13 substitutions are 
considered gatekeeper mutations which drive oncogenesis in many cancers. To 
date, there are still no target-specific vaccines or drugs available against 
this genotype, thus reinforcing the need towards the development of targeted 
therapies such as immunotoxins.
METHODS: This study aims to develop a recombinant anti-mKRAS scFv-fused mutant 
Hydra actinoporin-like-toxin-1 (mHALT-1) immunotoxin that is capable of 
recognizing and eradicating codon-12 mutated k-ras antigen abnormal cells. One 
G13D peptide mimotope (164-D) and one G12V peptide mimotope (68-V) were designed 
to elicit antigen specific IgG titres against mutated K-ras antigens in 
immunised Balb/c mice. The RNA was extracted from splenocytes following ELISA 
confirmation on post-immunized mice sera and was reverse transcribed into cDNA. 
The scFv combinatorial library was constructed from cDNA repertoire of variable 
regions of heavy chain (VH) and light chain (VL) fusions connected by a flexible 
glycine-serine linker, using splicing by overlap extension PCR (SOE-PCR). 
Anti-mKRAS G12V and G13D scFvs were cloned in pCANTAB5E phagemid and 
superinfected with helper phage. After few rounds of bio-panning, a specific 
mKRAS G12V and G13D scFv antibody against G12V and G13D control mimotope was 
identified and confirmed using ELISA without any cross-reactivity with other 
mimotopes or controls. Subsequently, the anti-mKRAS scFv was fused to mHALT-1 
using SOE-PCR and cloned in pET22b vector. Expressed recombinant immunotoxins 
were analyzed for their effects on cell proliferation by the MTT assay and 
targeted specificity by cell-based ELISA on KRAS-positive and KRAS-negative 
cancer cells.
RESULTS: The VH and VL genes from spleen RNA of mice immunized with 164-D and 
68-V were amplified and randomly linked together, using SOE-PCR producing band 
sizes about 750 bp. Anti-mKRAS G12V and G13D scFvs were constructed in phagemid 
pCANTAB5E vectors with a library containing 3.4 × 106 and 2.9 × 106 individual 
clones, respectively. After three rounds of bio-panning, the anti-mKRAS G12V-34 
scFv antibody against G12V control mimotope was identified and confirmed without 
any cross-reactivity with other controls using ELISA. Anti-mKRAS G12V-34 scFv 
fragment was fused to mHALT-1 toxin and cloned in pET22b vector with expression 
as inclusion bodies in E. coli BL21(DE3) (molecular weight of ~46.8 kDa). After 
successful solubilization and refolding, the mHALT-1-scFv immunotoxin exhibited 
cytotoxic effects on SW-480 colorectal cancer cells with IC50 of 25.39 μg/mL, 
with minimal cytotoxicity effect on NHDF cells.
DISCUSSION: These results suggested that the development of such immunotoxins is 
potentially useful as an immunotherapeutic application against KRAS-positive 
malignancies.

© 2021 Teo et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.11063
PMCID: PMC8053384
PMID: 33959410

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


143. Cureus. 2021 Mar 31;13(3):e14231. doi: 10.7759/cureus.14231.

Association Between Non-Cystic Fibrosis Bronchiectasis and Quality of Life: A 
Single-Center Cross-Sectional Study.

Chaurasia S(1), Haran A(2), Reddy A(2), Chawla P(3).

Author information:
(1)Pulmonary Medicine, Manipal Hospitals Whitefield, Bangalore, IND.
(2)Pulmonary Medicine, Vydehi Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Center, 
Bangalore, IND.
(3)Respiratory Diseases and Sleep Disorders, Artemis Hospital, Gurgaon, IND.

Introduction Bronchiectasis is a chronic respiratory disease that can 
affect patients of all ages and significantly impact the quality of life (QOL) 
in patients who suffer from it. In spite of its widespread prevalence, and the 
significant impact on QOL, data on the quantitative impact of bronchiectasis on 
QOL is lacking. The Quality of Life-Bronchiectasis (QOL-B) is a 
self-administered patient-reported outcome measure, that was recently developed 
as a response to the emergent need for such measurement tools to study the 
impact of bronchiectasis on QOL. Methods We conducted a single-center 
cross-sectional study to study the correlation between QOL and various other 
outcome parameters such as exercise capacity, lung functions, co-morbidities, 
inflammatory markers, and body mass index (BMI). The secondary outcome was to 
find out various determinants of quality of life in non-cystic fibrosis 
bronchiectasis (NCFB). Results Forty-four patients who determined the 
pre-determined criteria for NCFB were enrolled in this study. This study 
demonstrated a significant impact on the QOL of NCFB patients based on the QOL-B 
scoring system. Almost all domains of QOL-B were found to be adversely impacted 
as measured by one or more of the outcome parameters but the FEV1, age, 
colonization, extension, dyspnea (FACED) score, bronchiectasis severity index 
(BSI) score, six-minute walk test (6MWD), and FEV1 showed associations across 
most scales while the other outcome parameters showed varying associations. 
Conclusions The QOL is significantly reduced in NCFB and it may be quantified 
using the QOL-B questionnaire. The impact on QOL in NCFB may be assessed using 
validated tools such as the FACED and BSI scoring systems, as well as other 
well-established outcome parameters like 6MWD and FEV1 predicted.

Copyright © 2021, Chaurasia et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.14231
PMCID: PMC8093104
PMID: 33959430

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


144. Cureus. 2021 Apr 1;13(4):e14239. doi: 10.7759/cureus.14239.

Functional Adrenocortical Carcinoma: A Rare Case With Thrombus Extension Into 
the Inferior Vena Cava and a Presentation of Cushing Syndrome.

Southall TM(1), MacDonald M(2), Acker MR(2), Organ M(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Memorial University of Newfoundland, St. John's, CAN.
(2)Department of Urology, Dalhousie University, Halifax, CAN.

Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a rare, highly malignant endocrine tumor, 
often associated with a poor prognosis. Most patients who develop ACC are either 
children of ages 1-6, or adults in their fourth to fifth decade of life. 
Individuals with a functional cortisol-secreting ACC frequently present with 
Cushing syndrome. We report a case of an 18-year-old male who was found to have 
a large ACC tumor, with thrombus extension into the inferior vena cava (IVC), 
after presenting with Cushing syndrome. ACC presents a challenging scenario for 
physicians as surgical resection remains the only form of curative therapy, 
however, despite such treatment many patients quickly develop metastases.

Copyright © 2021, Southall et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.14239
PMCID: PMC8093109
PMID: 33959434

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


145. Indian Dermatol Online J. 2021 Mar 2;12(2):266-275. doi: 
10.4103/idoj.IDOJ_674_20. eCollection 2021 Mar-Apr.

Practical Guidelines to Develop and Evaluate a Questionnaire.

Kishore K(1), Jaswal V(2), Kulkarni V(3), De D(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, India.
(2)Department of Psychology, MCM DAV College for Women, Chandigarh, India.
(3)Department of Dermatology, PRAYAS Health Group, Amrita Clinic, Karve Road, 
Pune, Maharashtra, India.
(4)Department of Dermatology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, India.

Life expectancy is gradually increasing due to continuously improving medical 
and nonmedical interventions. The increasing life expectancy is desirable but 
brings in issues such as impairment of quality of life, disease perception, 
cognitive health, and mental health. Thus, questionnaire building and data 
collection through the questionnaires have become an active area of research. 
However, questionnaire development can be challenging and suboptimal in the 
absence of careful planning and user-friendly literature guide. Keeping in mind 
the intricacies of constructing a questionnaire, researchers need to carefully 
plan, document, and follow systematic steps to build a reliable and valid 
questionnaire. Additionally, questionnaire development is technical, 
jargon-filled, and is not a part of most of the graduate and postgraduate 
training. Therefore, this article is an attempt to initiate an understanding of 
the complexities of the questionnaire fundamentals, technical challenges, and 
sequential flow of steps to build a reliable and valid questionnaire.

Copyright: © 2021 Indian Dermatology Online Journal.

DOI: 10.4103/idoj.IDOJ_674_20
PMCID: PMC8088187
PMID: 33959523

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


146. Indian Dermatol Online J. 2021 Mar 2;12(2):294-297. doi: 
10.4103/idoj.IDOJ_177_18. eCollection 2021 Mar-Apr.

Leprosy in Elderly and Children among New Cases - A 3-Year Retrospective Study.

Arunraghav P(1), Herakal K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Deccan Medical College, Hyderabad, Telangana, 
India.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Navodaya Medical College, Raichur, Karnataka, 
India.

BACKGROUND: Leprosy occurs in all age groups, with adults constituting the 
majority. However, leprosy in children always drew the attention of 
epidemiologists as a guide to transmission of leprosy. With increasing life 
expectancy and decreasing prevalence of leprosy, there is going to be a 
significant rise of leprosy among elderly in India. In elderly leprosy patients, 
clinical signs are often quiet, which makes it a hidden source of infection. The 
detection of leprosy in elderly is of epidemiological importance, hence it is 
critical that due attention be given to leprosy in elderly as a possible 
contributor to hidden leprosy in India.
AIM: To analyze leprosy in elderly and in children from the records of new 
patients seen over the past 3-year period.
METHODS: Analysis of details of "leprosy in elderly" and "leprosy in children'" 
from the records of new leprosy patients seen at a dermatology OPD of a teaching 
hospital over a period of 3 years.
RESULTS: Out of 157 patients, 34 (21.6%) were above 45 years, while 18 (11.4%) 
were below 15 years, the difference being statistically significant (P > 0.05). 
Bacteriological Index (BI) values in elderly were higher compared to children. 
In addition, elderly had a higher percentage of multibacillary (MB) leprosy 
compared to children both clinically (35% vs 22%) and histopathologically (38% 
vs 22%).
CONCLUSION: Leprosy in elderly is an important entity, and there is a need to 
study it as a distinct group. It will provide information on hidden leprosy load 
and apprise us on sources of infection in the community.

Copyright: © 2021 Indian Dermatology Online Journal.

DOI: 10.4103/idoj.IDOJ_177_18
PMCID: PMC8088175
PMID: 33959528

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


147. RNA Biol. 2021 Dec;18(12):2480-2497. doi: 10.1080/15476286.2021.1926747.
Epub  2021 Jun 23.

The RNA structurome in the asexual blood stages of malaria pathogen plasmodium 
falciparum.

Alvarez DR(1), Ospina A(1), Barwell T(1), Zheng B(1), Dey A(1), Li C(2), Basu 
S(3), Shi X(2), Kadri S(4), Chakrabarti K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, 
Charlotte, North Carolina, USA.
(2)Temple University, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(3)Division of Medical Genetics, Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(4)Division of Health and Biomedical Informatics, Northwestern University 
Feinberg School of Medicine and Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of 
Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.

Plasmodium falciparum is a deadly human pathogen responsible for the devastating 
disease called malaria. In this study, we measured the differential accumulation 
of RNA secondary structures in coding and non-coding transcripts from the 
asexual developmental cycle in P. falciparum in human red blood cells. Our 
comprehensive analysis that combined high-throughput nuclease mapping of RNA 
structures by duplex RNA-seq, SHAPE-directed RNA structure validation, 
immunoaffinity purification and characterization of antisense RNAs collectively 
measured differentially base-paired RNA regions throughout the parasite's 
asexual RBC cycle. Our mapping data not only aligned to a diverse pool of RNAs 
with known structures but also enabled us to identify new structural RNA regions 
in the malaria genome. On average, approximately 71% of the genes with secondary 
structures are found to be protein coding mRNAs. The mapping pattern of these 
base-paired RNAs corresponded to all regions of mRNAs, including the 5' UTR, CDS 
and 3' UTR as well as the start and stop codons. Histone family genes which are 
known to form secondary structures in their mRNAs and transcripts from genes 
which are important for transcriptional and post-transcriptional control, such 
as the unique plant-like transcription factor family, ApiAP2, DNA-/RNA-binding 
protein, Alba3 and proteins important for RBC invasion and malaria cytoadherence 
also showed strong accumulation of duplex RNA reads in various asexual stages in 
P. falciparum. Intriguingly, our study determined stage-specific, dynamic 
relationships between mRNA structural contents and translation efficiency in P. 
falciparum asexual blood stages, suggesting an essential role of RNA structural 
changes in malaria gene expression programs. Abbreviations: CDS: Coding 
Sequence; DNA: Deoxyribonucleic Acid; dsRNA: double-stranded RNA; IDC: 
Intra-erythrocytic Developmental Cycle (IDC); m6A: N6-methyladenosine; mRNA: 
Messenger RNA; ncRNA: Non-coding RNA; RBC: Red Blood cells; RBP: RNA-Binding 
Protein; REC: Relative Expression Counts; RNA-seq: RNA-sequencing; RNA: 
Ribonucleic Acid; RNP: Ribonucleoprotein; RPKM: Reads Per Kilobase of transcript 
Per Million; rRNA: Ribosomal RNA 16. RUFs: RNAs of Unknown Function; SHAPE: 
Selective 2'-hydroxyl acylation analysed by primer extension; snoRNA: Small 
Nucleolar RNA; snRNA: Small Nuclear RNA; SRP-RNA: Signal Recognition Particle 
RNA; ssRNA: (Single-stranded RNA); TE: Translation Efficiency; tRNA: transfer 
RNA; UTR: Untranslated Region.

DOI: 10.1080/15476286.2021.1926747
PMCID: PMC8632117
PMID: 33960872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. IEEE/ACM Trans Comput Biol Bioinform. 2022 Sep-Oct;19(5):2572-2583. doi: 
10.1109/TCBB.2021.3078362. Epub 2022 Oct 10.

Learning Prognostic Models Using Disease Progression Patterns: Predicting the 
Need for Non-Invasive Ventilation in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.

Martins AS, Gromicho M, Pinto S, de Carvalho M, Madeira SC.

Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis is a devastating neurodegenerative disease causing 
rapid degeneration of motor neurons and usually leading to death by respiratory 
failure. Since there is no cure, treatment's goal is to improve symptoms and 
prolong survival. Non-invasive Ventilation (NIV) is an effective treatment, 
leading to extended life expectancy and improved quality of life. In this 
scenario, it is paramount to predict its need in order to allow preventive or 
timely administration. In this work, we propose to use itemset mining together 
with sequential pattern mining to unravel disease presentation patterns together 
with disease progression patterns by analysing, respectively, static data 
collected at diagnosis and longitudinal data from patient follow-up. The goal is 
to use these static and temporal patterns as features in prognostic models, 
enabling to take disease progression into account in predictions and promoting 
model interpretability. As case study, we predict the need for NIV within 90, 
180 and 365 days (short, mid and long-term predictions). The learnt prognostic 
models are promising. Pattern evaluation through growth rate suggests bulbar 
function and phrenic nerve response amplitude, additionally to respiratory 
function, are significant features towards determining patient evolution. This 
confirms clinical knowledge regarding relevant biomarkers of disease progression 
towards respiratory insufficiency.

DOI: 10.1109/TCBB.2021.3078362
PMID: 33961562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. J Dent. 2021 Jul;110:103687. doi: 10.1016/j.jdent.2021.103687. Epub 2021 May
4.

A cost minimisation analysis of two dental sealing methods in an outreach dental 
program.

Liu B(1), Wang W(2).

Author information:
(1)The First Affiliated Hospital, School and Hospital of Stomatology of 
Zhengzhou University, No. 40 Daxue Road, Erqi District, Zhengzhou, Henan, 
450052, China. Electronic address: baoyingliu@zzu.edu.cn.
(2)The First Affiliated Hospital, School and Hospital of Stomatology of 
Zhengzhou University, No. 40 Daxue Road, Erqi District, Zhengzhou, Henan, 
450052, China. Electronic address: LBYwangwenke@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To conduct economic evaluation of two sealing methods (placement of 
resin sealant or glass ionomer ART sealant) in preventing pit and fissure caries 
in permanent first molars (PFMs) in schoolchildren.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: An outreach dental program was conducted in two randomly 
selected primary schools, one was covered by the national government-funded 
dental sealing service (group 1) and the other was not (group 2). Resin or ART 
sealant (sealant using glass ionomer material with the aid of the finger-press 
technique) was applied to all of the eligible PFMs in group 1 and group 2 
students (grade 1 or 2), respectively. All the applications was provided at 
school. The cost for sealant application was recorded for each method. After 18 
months, a cost minimisation analysis was performed based on the efficacy results 
of the two methods.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: In total, 445 sealants were applied to 126 children in 
group 1, and 668 sealants were applied to 203 children in group 2. Dental caries 
incidence was 29.4 % in group 1 and 28.6 % in group 2 after 18 months. Logistic 
regression analysis showed no statistically significant difference (p = 0.552) 
between the two groups. Cost minimisation analysis was used to evaluate the 
economic performance. The analytical model showed that the ART sealant was 
economically better than resin sealant. Sensitivity analysis showed that the 
life expectancy of the equipment/instrument used in sealant applications was the 
major parameter affecting the cost. The cost of using ART sealant over the study 
period was lower than that of using resin sealant. Overall, ART sealant is a 
less costly alternative for pit and fissure caries prevention in outreach dental 
services.
CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: While pit and fissure sealing using ART sealant was as 
effective as using resin sealant in dental caries prevention, the cost of using 
ART sealant was lower than that of using resin sealant. Therefore, ART sealant 
could be a good alternative to resin sealant for pit and fissure caries 
prevention in outreach dental services for rural populations who have the 
greatest need.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jdent.2021.103687
PMID: 33961937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. J Hepatol. 2021 Sep;75(3):547-556. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2021.04.035. Epub
2021  May 4.

Global burden of acute viral hepatitis and its association with socioeconomic 
development status, 1990-2019.

Zeng DY(1), Li JM(2), Lin S(3), Dong X(1), You J(3), Xing QQ(3), Ren YD(4), Chen 
WM(5), Cai YY(6), Fang K(2), Hong MZ(7), Zhu Y(8), Pan JS(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical 
University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China; Hepatology Research Institute, Fujian Medical 
University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China; School of Medicine, Xiamen University, 
Xiamen, Fujian, China.
(2)Department of Statistics, School of Economics, Xiamen University, Xiamen, 
Fujian, China.
(3)Department of Hepatology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical 
University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China; Hepatology Research Institute, Fujian Medical 
University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, Zhongshan Hospital Xiamen University, Xiamen, 
Fujian, China.
(5)School of Medicine, Xiamen University, Xiamen, Fujian, China.
(6)School of Clinical Medicine, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, 
China.
(7)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Mengchao Hepatobiliary Hospital 
of Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China. Electronic address: 
546777397@qq.com.
(8)Department of Hepatology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical 
University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China; Hepatology Research Institute, Fujian Medical 
University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China. Electronic address: dr_ezhu@163.com.
(9)Department of Hepatology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical 
University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China; Hepatology Research Institute, Fujian Medical 
University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China. Electronic address: j.s.pan76@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Acute viral hepatitis (AVH) represents an important global 
health problem; however, the progress in understanding AVH is limited because of 
the priority of combating persistent HBV and HCV infections. Therefore, an 
improved understanding of the burden of AVH is required to help design 
strategies for global intervention.
METHODS: Data on 4 major AVH types, including acute hepatitis A, B, C, and E, 
excluding D, were collected by the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2019 database. 
Age-standardized incidence rates and disability-adjusted life year (DALY) rates 
for AVH were extracted from GBD 2019 and stratified by sex, level of 
socio-demographic index (SDI), country, and territory. The association between 
the burden of AVH and socioeconomic development status, as represented by the 
SDI, was described.
RESULTS: In 2019, there was an age-standardized incidence rate of 3,615.9 (95% 
CI 3,360.5-3,888.3) and an age-standardized DALY rate of 58.0 (47.3-70.0) per 
100,000 person-years for the 4 major types of AVH. Among the major AVH types, 
acute hepatitis A caused the heaviest burden. There was a significant downward 
trend in age-standardized DALY rates caused by major incidences of AVH between 
1990 and 2019. In 2019, regions or countries located in West and East Africa 
exhibited the highest age-standardized incidence rates of the 4 major AVH types. 
These rates were stratified by SDI: high SDI and high-middle SDI locations 
recorded the lowest incidence and DALY rates of AVH, whereas the low-middle SDI 
and low SDI locations showed the highest burden of AVH.
CONCLUSIONS: The socioeconomic development status and burden of AVH are 
associated. Therefore, the GBD 2019 data should be used by policymakers to guide 
cost-effective interventions for AVH.
LAY SUMMARY: We identified a negative association between socioeconomic 
development status and the burden of acute viral hepatitis. The lowest burden of 
acute viral hepatitis was noted for rich countries, whereas the highest burden 
of acute viral hepatitis was noted for poor countries.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2021.04.035
PMID: 33961940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest All authors report no 
competing interests. Please refer to the accompanying ICMJE disclosure forms for 
further details.


151. Sci Rep. 2021 May 7;11(1):9777. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-89160-0.

Spotlight on PSMA as a new theranostic biomarker for bladder cancer.

Tumedei MM(1), Ravaioli S(2), Matteucci F(1), Celli M(1), De Giorgi U(1), 
Gunelli R(3), Puccetti M(#)(4), Paganelli G(#)(1), Bravaccini S(#)(1).

Author information:
(1)IRCCS Istituto Romagnolo per lo Studio dei Tumori (IRST) "Dino Amadori", Via 
P. Maroncelli 40, 47014, Meldola, Italy.
(2)IRCCS Istituto Romagnolo per lo Studio dei Tumori (IRST) "Dino Amadori", Via 
P. Maroncelli 40, 47014, Meldola, Italy. sara.ravaioli@irst.emr.it.
(3)Department of Urology, Morgagni Pierantoni Hospital, Forli, Italy.
(4)Azienda Unità Sanitaria Locale (AUSL) Imola, Imola, Italy.
(#)Contributed equally

Bladder cancer (BCa) patients are diagnosed by cytology and cystoscopy. However, 
these diagnostic tests bear some limitations. We sought for reliable biomarkers 
to better determine BCa extension. Prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) 
appears to fulfill this requirement in prostate cancer but its role in BCa has 
not been established yet. We then analyzed 87 bladder tissue samples from 74 
patients assessing PSMA expression by immunohistochemistry. The median PSMA 
expression, exclusively found in tumor neovasculature, in terms of H-score 
significantly differed between non-tumor samples and tumor samples (p = 0.00288) 
showing a higher neovasculature-related PSMA expression. No differences were 
observed in relation to tumor type, grade and stage. BCa neovasculature-related 
PSMA overexpression may be useful in defining the degree of extension of the 
neoplasm. In addition, testing PSMA expression by immunohistochemistry may hold 
theranostic implications both considering anti-angiogenesis agents and 
radio-labelled PSMA ligands for intracavitary radionuclide therapy. In our 
opinion, BCa neovasculature-related PSMA overexpression may be considered an apt 
target for anti-angiogenesis and radionuclide treatment in BCa, once the 
evaluation of tumor-retention time for the appropriateness of long half-life 
therapeutic PSMA ligands as radionuclide treatment will be performed.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-89160-0
PMCID: PMC8105396
PMID: 33963223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Ugo De Giorgi received advisory board or 
consultant fees from Merck Sharp & Dohme, Bristol Myers Squibb, Janssen, 
Astellas, Sanofi, Bayer, Pfizer, Ipsen, Novartis, Pharmamar and Institutional 
research grant from Astrazeneca, Sanofi, Roche. All other authors have no 
conflicts of interest to declare.


152. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 2021 Aug;163(8):2225-2235. doi: 
10.1007/s00701-021-04862-8. Epub 2021 May 7.

Depression and ability to work after vestibular schwannoma surgery: a nationwide 
registry-based matched cohort study on antidepressants, sedatives, and sick 
leave.

Thurin E(1)(2), Förander P(3)(4), Bartek J Jr(3)(4)(5), Gulati S(6)(7), Rydén 
I(8), Smits A(8)(9), Hesselager G(10), Salvesen Ø(11), Jakola AS(8)(6)(12).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, University of Gothenburg, 
Sahlgrenska Academy, Box 430, 405 30, Gothenburg, Sweden. 
erik.thurin@neuro.gu.se.
(2)Department of Radiology, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 413 45, Gothenburg, 
Sweden. erik.thurin@neuro.gu.se.
(3)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institute, 17176, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Karolinska University Hospital, 171 76, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(6)Department of Neurosurgery, St., Olavs University Hospital HF, Postboks 3250 
Torgarden, 7006, Trondheim, Norway.
(7)Department of Neuromedicine and Movement Science, Norwegian University of 
Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway.
(8)Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, University of Gothenburg, 
Sahlgrenska Academy, Box 430, 405 30, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(9)Institute of Neuroscience, Neurology, Uppsala University Hospital, Uppsala, 
Sweden.
(10)Department of Neurosurgery, Uppsala University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.
(11)Department of Public Health and General Practice, Norwegian University of 
Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway.
(12)Department of Neurosurgery, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 413 46, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: In patients with vestibular schwannomas (VS), tumor control is often 
achieved, and life expectancy is relatively good. The main risks of surgical 
treatment are hearing loss and facial nerve function. The occurrence of mood and 
sleeping disorders in relation to surgery is an important aspect of health that 
has rarely been studied. Similarly, only limited data exist on the rate of sick 
leave for patients with VS. In this nationwide registry-based study, we define 
the use of antidepressants and sedatives and the sick leave pattern before and 
after VS surgery.
METHODS: Adult patients with histopathologically verified VS were identified in 
the Swedish Brain Tumor Registry (SBTR) and clinical data were linked to 
relevant national registries after assigning five matched controls to each 
patient. We studied patterns of dispensed antidepressants and sedative drugs as 
well as patterns of sick leave compared to respective controls at 2 years before 
and 2 years following surgery.
RESULTS: We identified 333 patients and 1662 matched controls. The rate of 
antidepressant use was similar between patients and controls 2 years before 
surgery (6.0% vs 6.3%) and 2 years after surgery (10.1% vs 7.5%). The rate of 
sedative use was also similar 2 years before surgery (3.9% vs 4.3%) and 2 years 
after surgery (4.8% vs 5.3%). The rate of sick leave was similar at baseline 
between patients and controls, but at 2 years after surgery, 75% of patients vs 
88% of controls (p < 0.01) had no registered sick leave. Long-term sick leave 
after surgery was predicted by use of sedatives (OR 0.60, 95% CI 0.38-0.94, 
p = 0.03), more preoperative sick leave (OR 0.91, 95% CI 0.89-0.93, p < 0.001), 
and new-onset neurological deficits after surgery (OR 0.42, 95% CI 0.24-0.76, 
p = 0.004).
CONCLUSION: This nationwide study shows no significant differences in the use of 
antidepressants and sedatives between patients and controls, while the rate of 
postoperative sick leave was higher in patients than in controls after VS 
surgery. Our findings underpin the importance of avoiding surgical sequelae and 
facilitating return to normal professional life.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00701-021-04862-8
PMCID: PMC8270857
PMID: 33963435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


153. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2021 Jun;128(6):793-802. doi: 
10.1007/s00702-021-02343-x. Epub 2021 May 8.

Validation of a new hemifacial spasm grading questionnaire (HFS score) assessing 
clinical and quality of life parameters.

Wabbels B(1), Yaqubi A(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Bonn, Ernst-Abbe-Str. 2, 53127, 
Bonn, Germany. bettina.wabbels@ukbonn.de.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Bonn, Ernst-Abbe-Str. 2, 53127, 
Bonn, Germany.
(3)Ophthalmological Center Lippstadt, Wiedenbrücker Str. 31, 59555, Lippstadt, 
Germany.

Validation of the new hemifacial spasm (HFS) questionnaire "HFS score" that 
captures both clinical (HFS clinical) and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) 
parameters (HFS subjective) in one tool and comparison with a global HRQOL 
questionnaire. Cross sectional, prospective validation study including 143 
subjects (62 HFS patients and 81 healthy volunteers) from the University Eye 
Hospital Bonn. Patients were interviewed with the new HFS score and the SF-12 
questionnaire prior to and 3 weeks after Botulinum neurotoxin A (BoNT-A) 
injection. All HRQOL-related questions (HFS subjective) were answered on a 
visual analogue scale (VAS) ranging from 0 (no complaints) to 100% (maximum 
complaints) by the patients themselves. Reproducibility was tested in a study 
extension with 10 patients by repeat interviews (telephone/personal). The new 
HFS score questionnaire provided a reliable clinical assessment and demonstrated 
that BoNT-A therapy significantly reduced frequency and severity of eye and 
cheek spasms (p < 0.001; Wilcoxon test). Relevant aspects of HRQOL of HFS 
patients were assessed with high accuracy and sensitivity. Significant 
improvements were achieved after BoNT-A injection in five out of eight HRQOL 
parameters (p ≤ 0.02; Wilcoxon test). Cronbach's alpha of 0.818 demonstrated 
good internal consistency. Telephone survey provided comparable results to 
personal interviews. This new sensitive and specific HFS score seems a reliable 
instrument to monitor BoNT therapy and customize it to the needs of the 
individual HFS patient-in clinical studies and daily clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-021-02343-x
PMCID: PMC8205881
PMID: 33963897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: BW received travel grants and speaker honoraria 
from Desitin and Merz and research funding from Allergan and Merz, AY has no 
financial interests.


154. Obes Surg. 2021 Jul;31(7):3165-3176. doi: 10.1007/s11695-021-05454-2. Epub
2021  May 8.

Stapleless vs Stapled Gastric Bypass vs Hypocaloric Diet: a Three-Arm Randomized 
Controlled Trial of Body Mass Evolution with Secondary Outcomes for Telomere 
Length and Metabolic Syndrome Changes.

Ospanov O(1)(2), Akilzhanova A(3), Buchwald JN(4), Fursov A(5), Bekmurzinova 
F(5), Rakhimova S(3), Yeleuov G(6), Kozhamkulov U(3), Abdina Z(6), Fursov R(5), 
Jumayeva L(6).

Author information:
(1)Research Group of the University Medical Center, Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan. 
bariatric.kz@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Surgical Diseases and Bariatric Surgery, Astana Medical 
University, Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan. bariatric.kz@gmail.com.
(3)Laboratory of Genomic and Personalized Medicine, Center for Life Sciences, 
National Laboratory Astana, Nazarbayev University, Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan.
(4)Division of Scientific Research Writing, Medwrite Medical Communications, 
Maiden Rock, WI, USA.
(5)Department of Surgical Diseases and Bariatric Surgery, Astana Medical 
University, Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan.
(6)Research Group of the University Medical Center, Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan.

BACKGROUND: Obesity and metabolic syndrome (MetS) reduce life expectancy and are 
challenging to resolve. This randomized controlled trial (RCT) of patients with 
obesity and MetS undergoing surgical vs nonsurgical treatment compared changes 
in BMI, and secondarily, telomere length (as a biomarker of life expectancy) and 
changes in MetS components (insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, hypertension).
METHODS: Study design was a single-center, prospective, three-arm RCT. Group 1 
patients underwent novel unstapled laparoscopic one anastomosis gastric bypass 
with an obstructive stapleless pouch and anastomosis (LOAGB-OSPAN); Group 2, 
stapled laparoscopic mini-gastric bypass-one anastomosis gastric bypass 
(LMGB-OAGB); and Group 3, nonsurgical weight loss therapy via a hypocaloric diet 
with energy restriction (HDER). The primary outcome measure was change in BMI; 
secondary outcome measures included change in leukocyte telomere length and 
other MetS components.
RESULTS: Of 96 participants screened, 60 were randomly allocated to 3 groups: 
LOAGB-OSPAN group (n = 20), LMGB-OAGB group (n = 20), and HDER group (n = 20). 
At post-treatment month 12, respective BMI changes: BMI -12.13 (-8.34, -15.93); 
-16.04 (-11.7, 20.37); -2,76 (-3.84, -9.36) (p < 0.01). The two surgical groups 
experienced significant change in telomere length: LOAGB-OSPAN 2.02 (1.61, 
2.41), p = 0.001; LMGB-OAGB 2.07 (1.72, 2.43), p = 0.001; and HDER 0.28 (0.22, 
0.78), p = 0.26. The surgical groups were also more effective in treating MetS 
components. There were no deaths. Adverse events: LOAGB-OSPAN (n = 2) 
(Clavien-Dindo grade II); LMGB-OAGB (n = 8) (grade I (n = 6) and grade II (n = 
2).
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with hypocaloric diet therapy, both bariatric procedures 
resulted in greater BMI loss, and secondarily, a significant increase in 
telomere length, and greater MetS resolution.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov , NCT03667469, registered on 11 September 
2018.

DOI: 10.1007/s11695-021-05454-2
PMID: 33963974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Int Breastfeed J. 2021 May 8;16(1):39. doi: 10.1186/s13006-021-00385-1.

Realities and challenges of breastfeeding policy in the context of HIV: a 
qualitative study on community perspectives on facilitators and barriers related 
to breastfeeding among HIV positive mothers in Baringo County, Kenya.

Samburu BM(#)(1), Kimiywe J(#)(2), Young SL(#)(3), Wekesah FM(4)(5), Wanjohi 
MN(4), Muriuki P(4)(6), Madise NJ(7), Griffiths PL(8)(9), Kimani-Murage 
EW(#)(4)(10)(11)(12)(13).

Author information:
(1)United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), Nairobi, Kenya. bmogesi@unicef.org.
(2)Department of Foods, Nutrition and Dietetics, Kenyatta University, Nairobi, 
Kenya.
(3)Institute of Policy Research, Northwestern University, Evanston, USA.
(4)Maternal and Child Wellbeing Unit, African Population and Health Research 
Center, Nairobi, Kenya.
(5)Julius Global Health, Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, 
University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht University, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(6)Institute of Global Health Equity Education, University of Global Health 
Equity, Kigali, Rwanda.
(7)African Institute for Development Policy, Lilongwe, Malawi.
(8)School of Sports, Exercise and Health Sciences, Loughborough University, 
Loughborough, UK.
(9)MRC/WITS Developmental Pathways for Health Research Unit (DPHRU), School of 
Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, 
Johannesburg, South Africa.
(10)Wellcome Trust, London, UK.
(11)Human Nutrition, School of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing, College of 
Medical, Veterinary & Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, G31 2ER, 
UK.
(12)Stellenbosch Institute for Advanced Study (STIAS), Wallenberg Research 
Centre, Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch, South Africa.
(13)International Health Institute, Brown University School of Public Health, 
Providence, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Although recent policies have sought to increase the rates of 
exclusive breastfeeding (EBF) and continued breastfeeding for HIV exposed 
infants, few programs have considered the multiple social and cultural barriers 
to the practice. Therefore, to generate evidence for exclusive and continued 
breastfeeding policies in Kenya, we examined community perspectives on the 
facilitators and barriers in adherence to EBF for the HIV positive mothers.
METHODS: Qualitative research was conducted in Koibatek, a sub-County in Baringo 
County Kenya, in August 2014 among 205 respondents. A total of 14 focus group 
discussions (n = 177), 14 In-depth Interviews and 16 key informant interviews 
were conducted. Transcribed data was analyzed thematically. NVivo version 10.0 
computer qualitative software program was used to manage and facilitate the 
analysis.
RESULTS: Facilitators to exclusive breastfeeding were perceived to include 
counselling at the health facility, desire to have a healthy baby, use of 
antiretroviral drugs and health benefits associated with breastmilk. Barriers to 
EBF included poor dissemination of policies, knowledge gap, misinterpretation of 
EBF, inadequate counselling, attitude of mother and health workers due to fear 
of vertical HIV transmission, stigma related to misconception and misinformation 
that EBF is only compulsory for HIV positive mothers, stigma related to HIV and 
disclosure, social pressure, lack of male involvement, cultural practices and 
traditions, employment, food insecurity.
CONCLUSIONS: There are multiple facilitators and barriers of optimal 
breastfeeding that needs a holistic approach to interventions aimed at achieving 
elimination of mother to child transmission. Extension of infant feeding support 
in the context of HIV to the community while building on existing interventions 
such as the Baby Friendly Community Initiative is key to providing confidential 
support services for the additional needs faced by HIV positive mothers.

DOI: 10.1186/s13006-021-00385-1
PMCID: PMC8106855
PMID: 33964950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


156. Lancet. 2021 May 22;397(10288):1979-1991. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(21)00229-4.  Epub 2021 May 6.

The changing health needs of the UK population.

McKee M(1), Dunnell K(2), Anderson M(3), Brayne C(4), Charlesworth A(5), 
Johnston-Webber C(6), Knapp M(6), McGuire A(6), Newton JN(7), Taylor D(8), Watt 
RG(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(2)London, UK.
(3)Department of Health Policy, London School of Economics and Political 
Science, London, UK. Electronic address: m.anderson5@lse.ac.uk.
(4)Cambridge Public Health, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(5)The Health Foundation, London, UK; College of Social Sciences, Health 
Services Management Centre, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.
(6)Department of Health Policy, London School of Economics and Political 
Science, London, UK.
(7)Public Health England, London, UK.
(8)UCL School of Pharmacy, University College London, London, UK.
(9)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London, 
London, UK.

The demographics of the UK population are changing and so is the need for health 
care. In this Health Policy, we explore the current health of the population, 
the changing health needs, and future threats to health. Relative to other 
high-income countries, the UK is lagging on many health outcomes, such as life 
expectancy and infant mortality, and there is a growing burden of mental 
illness. Successes exist, such as the striking improvements in oral health, but 
inequalities in health persist as well. The growth of the ageing population 
relative to the working-age population, the rise of multimorbidity, and 
persistent health inequalities, particularly for preventable illness, are all 
issues that the National Health Service (NHS) will face in the years to come. 
Meeting the challenges of the future will require an increased focus on health 
promotion and disease prevention, involving a more concerted effort to 
understand and tackle the multiple social, environmental, and economic factors 
that lie at the heart of health inequalities. The immediate priority of the NHS 
will be to mitigate the wider and long-term health consequences of the COVID-19 
pandemic, but it must also strengthen its resilience to reduce the impact of 
other threats to health, such as the UK leaving the EU, climate change, and 
antimicrobial resistance.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(21)00229-4
PMCID: PMC9751760
PMID: 33965065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests We declare no competing 
interests.


157. Lancet. 2021 May 15;397(10287):1830-1841. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(21)00591-2.  Epub 2021 May 6.

Association of metabolic-bariatric surgery with long-term survival in adults 
with and without diabetes: a one-stage meta-analysis of matched cohort and 
prospective controlled studies with 174 772 participants.

Syn NL(1), Cummings DE(2), Wang LZ(3), Lin DJ(4), Zhao JJ(4), Loh M(5), Koh 
ZJ(6), Chew CA(6), Loo YE(4), Tai BC(7), Kim G(6), So JB(6), Kaplan LM(8), Dixon 
JB(9), Shabbir A(10).

Author information:
(1)Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore; 
Biostatistics & Modelling Domain, Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, 
Singapore.
(2)UW Medicine Diabetes Institute, Department of Medicine, Division of 
Metabolism, Endocrinology, and Nutrition, and Weight Management Program, Veteran 
Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, 
USA.
(3)Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore; 
SingHealth Internal Medicine Residency Programme, Singapore General Hospital, 
Singapore.
(4)Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore.
(5)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
Imperial College London, London, UK; Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang 
Technological University, Singapore.
(6)Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore; 
Department of Surgery, University Surgical Cluster, National University Health 
System, Singapore.
