Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, China; Key 
Laboratory of Cancer Invasion and Metastasis, Ministry of Education, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, China. Electronic address: 
jinjinzhang@tjh.tjmu.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, China; 
National Clinical Research Center for Obstetrical and Gynecological Diseases, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, China; Key 
Laboratory of Cancer Invasion and Metastasis, Ministry of Education, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, China. Electronic address: 
shixuanwang@tjh.tjmu.edu.cn.

Aging can not only shorten a healthy lifespan, but can also lead to multi-organ 
dysfunction and failure. Anti-aging is a complex and worldwide conundrum for 
eliminating the various pathologies of senility. The past decade has seen great 
progress in the understanding of the aging-associated signaling pathways and 
their application for developing anti-aging approaches. Currently, some drugs 
can improve quality of life. The activation of mammalian target of rapamycin 
(mTOR) signaling is one of the core and detrimental mechanisms related to aging; 
rapamycin can reduce the rate of aging, improve age-related diseases by 
inhibiting the mTOR pathway, and prolong lifespan and healthspan effectively. 
However, the current evidence for rapamycin in lifespan extension and organ 
aging is fragmented and scattered. In this review, we summarize the efficacy and 
safety of rapamycin in prolonging a healthy lifespan by systematically 
alleviating aging in multiple organ systems, i.e., the nervous, urinary, 
digestive, circulatory, motor, respiratory, endocrine, reproductive, 
integumentary and immune systems, to provide a theoretical basis for the future 
clinical application of rapamycin in anti-aging.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2021.101376
PMID: 34089901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. BMC Palliat Care. 2021 Jun 5;20(1):80. doi: 10.1186/s12904-021-00779-2.

Views of patients with advanced disease and their relatives on participation in 
palliative care research.

Vlckova K(1)(2), Polakova K(3)(4), Tuckova A(3)(5), Houska A(3)(6), Loucka 
M(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Center, for Palliative Care, Dykova 15, Prague, 110 00, Czech Republic. 
k.vlckova@paliativnicentrum.cz.
(2)First Faculty of Medicine, Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic. 
k.vlckova@paliativnicentrum.cz.
(3)Center, for Palliative Care, Dykova 15, Prague, 110 00, Czech Republic.
(4)Third Faculty of Medicine, Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic.
(5)Faculty of Social Science, Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic.
(6)First Faculty of Medicine, Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic.

BACKGROUND: Patients with advanced disease may not be invited to participate in 
research based on the assumption that participation would be too burdensome for 
them. The aim of this study was to explore how patients with advanced disease 
and their relatives evaluate their experience with research participation.
METHOD: This study used data from two parts of a larger project. The first 
dataset was a cross-sectional questionnaire study focused on priorities at the 
end of life. The second dataset used a longitudinal design with structured 
interviews on prognostic awareness. In both studies, participants evaluated 
their experience on a 5-point Likert scale and specified their motivation in an 
open-ended question. Data were collected in 6 hospitals in the Czech Republic 
with patients with advanced disease and life expectancy less than 1 year and 
their relatives. Data were analysed using non-parametric tests and thematic 
analysis.
RESULTS: First dataset consisted of 167 patients and 102 relatives, and second 
dataset consisted of 135 patients and 92 relatives (in total, 496 respondents). 
Results were similar in both datasets, with half of the sample (53%, 48%) 
scoring neutral, and over 30% of the sample identified their experience as 
interesting. The most significant factors associated with the evaluation were 
religiosity (p = 0.001) and the type of diagnosis (p = 0.04). Motivation for 
participation was to improve care, support research, express own opinion, 
opportunity to talk and trusting relationship.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with advanced disease and relatives do not mind 
participating in palliative care research, and it can be even a positive 
experience for them.

DOI: 10.1186/s12904-021-00779-2
PMCID: PMC8180046
PMID: 34090400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


548. Lancet. 2021 Jun 5;397(10290):2195-2211. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(20)32542-3.

Cystic fibrosis.

Shteinberg M(1), Haq IJ(2), Polineni D(3), Davies JC(4).

Author information:
(1)Pulmonology Institute and CF Center, Carmel Medical Center, Haifa, Israel; 
Rappaport Faculty of Medicine, The Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, 
Haifa, Israel.
(2)Translational and Clinical Research Institute, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle upon Tyne, UK; Great North Children's Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne 
Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(3)University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, USA.
(4)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, UK; Royal 
Brompton and Harefield, Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK. 
Electronic address: j.c.davies@imperial.ac.uk.

Cystic fibrosis is a monogenic disease considered to affect at least 100 000 
people worldwide. Mutations in CFTR, the gene encoding the epithelial ion 
channel that normally transports chloride and bicarbonate, lead to impaired 
mucus hydration and clearance. Classical cystic fibrosis is thus characterised 
by chronic pulmonary infection and inflammation, pancreatic exocrine 
insufficiency, male infertility, and might include several comorbidities such as 
cystic fibrosis-related diabetes or cystic fibrosis liver disease. This 
autosomal recessive disease is diagnosed in many regions following newborn 
screening, whereas in other regions, diagnosis is based on a group of recognised 
multiorgan clinical manifestations, raised sweat chloride concentrations, or 
CFTR mutations. Disease that is less easily diagnosed, and in some cases 
affecting only one organ, can be seen in the context of gene variants leading to 
residual protein function. Management strategies, including augmenting 
mucociliary clearance and aggressively treating infections, have gradually 
improved life expectancy for people with cystic fibrosis. However, restoration 
of CFTR function via new small molecule modulator drugs is transforming the 
disease for many patients. Clinical trial pipelines are actively exploring many 
other approaches, which will be increasingly needed as survival improves and as 
the population of adults with cystic fibrosis increases. Here, we present the 
current understanding of CFTR mutations, protein function, and disease 
pathophysiology, consider strengths and limitations of current management 
strategies, and look to the future of multidisciplinary care for those with 
cystic fibrosis.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(20)32542-3
PMID: 34090606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests MS reports grants, 
personal fees, and non-financial support from GlaxoSmithKline; grants and 
non-financial support from Novartis and Trudell pharma; non-financial support 
from Actelion; and personal fees from Boeringer Ingelheim, AstraZeneca, and 
Vertex Pharmaceuticals, outside the submitted work. IJH reports grants from 
Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund, outside the submitted work. 
DP reports grants and personal fees from Vertex Pharmaceuticals, and grants from 
Laurent Pharmaceuticals, outside the submitted work. JCD reports grants from the 
Cystic Fibrosis Trust outside the submitted work; Advisory Board and clinical 
trial leadership activities for AlgiPharma, Galapagos NV, and Proteostasis 
Therapeutics; Advisory Board and trial design assistance for ImevaX; Advisory 
Board and national coordinator and global coinvestigator for Vertex 
Pharmaceuticals; Advisory Board activities for Boehringer Ingelheim, Nivalis 
Therapeutics, Raptor Pharmaceuticals, Enterprise, Novartis, Pulmocide, Flatley, 
and Arcturus Therapeutics; and has given lectures for Teva.


549. Adv Protein Chem Struct Biol. 2021;126:123-149. doi: 
10.1016/bs.apcsb.2021.01.004. Epub 2021 Feb 22.

Recent developments in CCR5 regulation for HIV cure.

Garg K(1), Khan AR(1), Taneja P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, School of Engineering and Technology, Sharda 
University, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, School of Engineering and Technology, Sharda 
University, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India. Electronic address: 
pankaj12750@rediffmail.com.

Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) has affected millions of people 
worldwide. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) which infects T cells by using 
CD4 as its main receptor. Currently different treatments are available against 
HIV infection which can improve life expectancy of the patient but still it 
remains incurable. CCR5, which is also required as a co-receptor by majority of 
HIV strains for entry into the target cells, is now being targeted for gene 
therapy to develop HIV resistance in patients. In this review, we discuss 
different strategies that are being adapted for CCR5-gene disruption in CD4+ T 
cells and in hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) to generate a HIV-resistant immune 
system in infected individuals. If CCR5 gene that can shape HIV-resistant T 
cells, it will aim in new approaches in clinical trials. But these techniques 
have certain weaknesses and disadvantages, and will need to be paired with other 
strategies to form a full HIV remedy. There is also a need to establish methods 
to help deter HIV re-emergence following targeted CCR5 therapy. But ultimately, 
this brought us a better knowledge of the road to HIV treatment.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.apcsb.2021.01.004
PMID: 34090613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Orv Hetil. 2021 Jun 6;162(23):911-923. doi: 10.1556/650.2021.32124.

[Subjective expectations concerning life expectancy and age-related health 
burden].

[Article in Hungarian]

Zrubka Z(1)(2), Kincses Á(3)(4), Gulácsi L(1)(2), Kovács L(5), Péntek M(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Óbudai Egyetem, Egyetemi Kutatási és Innovációs Központ, Egészségügyi 
Közgazdaságtan Kutatóközpont, Budapest, Bécsi út 96/b, 1034.
(2)2 Budapesti Corvinus Egyetem, Corvinus Institute for Advanced Studies, 
Budapest.
(3)3 Központi Statisztikai Hivatal, Budapest.
(4)4 Miskolci Egyetem, Világ- és Regionális Gazdaságtan Intézet, Miskolc.
(5)5 Óbudai Egyetem, Egyetemi Kutatási és Innovációs Központ, Élettani 
Szabályozások Kutatóközpont, Budapest.

Összefoglaló. Bevezetés: A lakosság idősödésével növekvő betegségteher egyéni és 
társadalmi szinten is fokozódó nyomást jelent. Célkitűzés: Felmérni a hazai 
általános felnőtt lakosságnak a korlátozottsággal, a gondozási igényekkel és a 
munkavégzéssel kapcsolatos időskori szubjektív várakozásait. Módszer: Online 
keresztmetszeti felmérést végeztünk. A korlátozottsággal kapcsolatos 
várakozásokat a hivatalos szakstatisztikákban alkalmazott globális 
tevékenységkorlátozottsági mutató (Global Activity Limitation Indicator, GALI) 
segítségével elsőként vizsgáltuk. A jelen és szubjektíve várt munkavégzést, 
gondozási igényt, gondozói tevékenységet, valamint a jelen egészségi állapotot 
és szociodemográfiai helyzetet vizsgáló kérdéseket is feltettünk. Statisztikai 
analízis: A mintában mért adatokat lokális polinom segítségével simítottuk, és a 
60/70/80/90 éves korra adott szubjektív várakozásokkal hasonlítottuk össze. A 
szubjektív várakozásokat meghatározó tényezőket intervallumregresszióval 
becsültük. Eredmények: 1000 kitöltőtől 914 érvényes választ kaptunk. Az 
átlagéletkor (± szórás) 51,2 (± 15,2) év, a minta 55,8%-a nő volt. A férfiak 
között a fizetett munkát végzők (p<0,001), a nők között az informális gondozók 
aránya volt magasabb (p = 0,010). Az átlagos (± szórás) szubjektíve várható 
élettartam (81,0 ± 11,1 év) a minta statisztikailag várható élettartamánál (79,6 
± 3,7 év) 1,3 évvel volt hosszabb (p<0,001), azonban az átlagos, szubjektíve 
várható egészséges élettartam (64,6 ± 15,2 év) 5,3 évvel volt rövidebb a 
statisztikailag várható értéknél (70,0 ± 4,2 év; p<0,001). A szubjektíve várható 
egészséges élettartamot és gondozási igényt elsősorban a válaszadók jelenlegi 
egészségi állapota befolyásolta. Az életmód és a szubjektíve várható egészséges 
élettartam között nőknél nem találtunk összefüggés, míg a túlzott gyakorisággal 
alkoholt fogyasztó vagy elhízott férfiak hosszabb egészséges élettartamra 
számítottak. A szubjektív várakozások meghatározó tényezői jelentős nemi 
különbségeket mutattak. Következtetés: Az egészséggel, munkával és gondozással 
kapcsolatos szubjektív várakozások eltérőek a populációban mért valós adatoktól, 
és különböznek a nemek között. Orv Hetil. 2021; 162(23): 911-923.
INTRODUCTION: The growing disease burden due to ageing populations poses a 
challenge on both individuals and societies.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the general population's subjective expectations 
concerning disability, care needs and employment at older ages.
METHOD: We conducted an online cross-sectional survey. We were the first to 
measure subjective health expectations using the Global Activity Limitation 
Indicator (GALI) of official health statistics. Respondents' actual status and 
subjective expectations concerning employment, care needs and informal caregiver 
status, self-perceived health and sociodemographic factors were queried.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: We estimated sample characteristics by local polynomial 
smoothing and compared with subjective expectations at ages of 60/70/80/90 
years. Determinants of subjective expectations were analyzed via interval 
regression.
RESULTS: From 1000 subjects, 914 provided valid responses. Mean (± SD) age was 
51.2 (± 15.2) years, and 55.8% of respondents were women. Paid employment was 
more frequent among men (p<0.001), while informal caregiver status among women 
(p = 0.010). Mean (± SD) subjective life expectancy (81.0 ± 11.1 years) was 1.3 
years longer (p<0.001) than actuarial life-expectancy (79.6 ± 3.7 years), while 
mean subjective healthy life expectancy (sHLE) (64.6 ± 15.2 years) was 5.3 years 
shorter than actuarial healthy life expectancy (70.0 ± 4.2 years; p<0.001). sHLE 
and care needs were mainly determined by respondents' self-perceived health. 
Lifestyle risks were not associated with sHLE in women, while pervasive drinker 
or obese men expected longer healthy life span. Determinants of sHLE showed 
considerable gender differences.
CONCLUSION: Subjective expectations concerning health, employment and care needs 
differ from actual values of the general population, with considerable gender 
differences. Orv Hetil. 2021; 162(23): 911-923.

DOI: 10.1556/650.2021.32124
PMID: 34091435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2021 Sep 1;73(3):385-390. doi: 
10.1097/MPG.0000000000003194.

Survival Benefits Following Liver Transplantation: A Matched-pair Analysis in 
Pediatric Patients With Cystic Fibrosis.

Flemming G(1)(2), Baumann U(1), Richter N(3), Vondran F(3), Tümmler B(4), 
Dittrich AM(4), Müller C(4), Vogel M(2), Pfister ED(1).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Gastrolenterology and Hepatology, Hannover Medical School, 
Hannover.
(2)Hospital for Children and Adolescents, University of Leipzig.
(3)Department of General, Visceral and Transplant Surgery.
(4)Pediatric Pneumology, Allergology, and Neonatology, Hannover Medical School, 
Hannover, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: Cystic fibrosis-related liver disease (CFLD) with consecutive 
cirrhosis is the third most common cause of death in CF patients. The aim of 
this study was to identify the potential long-term benefits of liver 
transplantation (LTx) in a match-control comparison.
METHODS: Retrospective single-center data analysis of all pediatric LTx for CFLD 
between 1998 and 2014. A control group was selected from the local CF patient 
registry. Data were collected from case report forms and included clinical and 
laboratory data, lung function tests, the indication for LTx, and details of 
surgical procedures.
RESULTS: At our institution, 23 patients with severe CFLD median age 13.8 years 
(range 8.7-17.4; 16 boys) underwent LTx between 1998 and 2014. In all patients, 
normalization of hepatic CF manifestations were achieved after LTx. But 
obviously there was no significant positive influence on nutritional status. 
Signs of posttransplant liver steatosis were documented by ultrasound in 17 
patients. Liver biopsies after LTx were performed in 19 patients, in 42% (n = 8) 
of these biopsies a fatty degeneration was observed. Five patients died after 
LTx, none because of primary hepatic dysfunction (1 because of posttransplant 
proliferative disorder, 4 because of infection). Analysis of matched control 
pairs revealed that liver function, anthropometry, pulmonary function, and life 
expectancy of CFLD patients with LTx are comparable with matched CF peers 
without CFLD.
CONCLUSIONS: Isolated LTx normalizes the hepatic manifestation of CF disease. 
LTx enables children and adolescents with severe CFLD to have a comparable 
prognosis in terms of growth, life expectancy, and lung function as CF patients 
without advanced liver involvement. Our data clarifies the long-term 
perspectives of affected patients.

Copyright © 2021 by European Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, 
and Nutrition and North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, 
Hepatology, and Nutrition.

DOI: 10.1097/MPG.0000000000003194
PMID: 34091543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest.


552. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2021 Jul;78(14):5447-5468. doi:
10.1007/s00018-021-03862-2.  Epub 2021 Jun 6.

The multifaceted view of heart problem in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Florczyk-Soluch U(1), Polak K(2), Dulak J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biotechnology, Faculty of Biochemistry, Biophysics and 
Biotechnology, Jagiellonian University, Kraków, Poland. 
urszula.florczyk@uj.edu.pl.
(2)Department of Medical Biotechnology, Faculty of Biochemistry, Biophysics and 
Biotechnology, Jagiellonian University, Kraków, Poland.

Dystrophin is a large protein serving as local scaffolding repetitively bridging 
cytoskeleton and the outside of striated muscle cell. As such dystrophin is a 
critical brick primarily in dystrophin-associated protein complex (DAGC) and in 
a larger submembranous unit, costamere. Accordingly, the lack of functional 
dystrophin laying at the root of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) drives 
sarcolemma instability. From this point on, the cascade inevitably leading to 
the death of myocyte begins. In cardiomyocytes, intracellular calcium overload 
and related mitochondrial-mediated cell death mainly contribute to myocardial 
dysfunction and dilation while other protein dysregulation and/or 
mislocalization may affect electrical conduction system and favor 
arrhythmogenesis. Although clinically DMD manifests as progressive muscle 
weakness and skeletal muscle symptoms define characteristic of DMD, it is the 
heart problem the biggest challenge that most often develop in the form of 
dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). Current standards of treatment and recent progress 
in respiratory care, introduced in most settings in the 1990s, have improved 
quality of life and median life expectancy to 4th decade of patient's age. At 
the same time, cardiac causes of death related to DMD increases. Despite 
preventive and palliative cardiac treatments available, the prognoses remain 
poor. Direct therapeutic targeting of dystrophin deficiency is critical, 
however, hindered by the large size of the dystrophin cDNA and/or stochastic, 
often extensive genetic changes in DMD gene. The correlation between cardiac 
involvement and mutations affecting specific dystrophin isoforms, may provide a 
mutation-specific cardiac management and novel therapeutic approaches for 
patients with CM. Nonetheless, the successful cardiac treatment poses a big 
challenge and may require combined therapy to combat dystrophin deficiency and 
its after-effects (critical in DMD pathogenesis). This review locates the 
multifaceted heart problem in the course of DMD, balancing the insights into 
basic science, translational efforts and clinical manifestation of dystrophic 
heart disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-021-03862-2
PMCID: PMC8257522
PMID: 34091693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: On behalf of all authors, the corresponding 
author states that there is no conflict of interest.


553. Theory Biosci. 2022 Jun;141(2):175-202. doi: 10.1007/s12064-021-00348-4.
Epub  2021 Jun 6.

The limits of the mathematization of the living and the idea of formal 
morphology of the living world following Husserlian phenomenology.

Lobo C(1).

Author information:
(1)Archives Husserl, UMR 8547, CNRS, Ecole Normale Supérieure, Paris, France. 
carlos.lobo.ag@orange.fr.

Through a presentation and a commentary of Husserl's little-known analyses of 
mathematization in the life sciences and on morphology, this article proposes 
three goals. First, it aims at establishing the real meaning and results of the 
critical analyses of the mathematization in natural sciences and of exactness 
put forth as a standard of scientific knowledge that we read in the Krisis. As a 
result, it will appear that these analyses belong to the perspective of a 
project of a formal morphology, understood as an extension of mathesis. It is 
then to explain why this project only makes sense in the larger framework of the 
description of the "correlational a priori," i.e., the theory of constituting 
subjectivity, experiencing these morphologies, and engaging, theoretically, by 
induction, in the typification and categorial elaboration of possible 
explanatory models. After presenting the contours of this project and its 
achievements, we will conclude with some conjectural proposals concerning the 
profile of plausible mathematical structures likely to satisfy the minimal 
algebraic formal conditions for a model of stability and plasticity of the 
living and allowing to understand and express the dynamic stratification of 
morphological levels and the various forms of morphogenesis.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12064-021-00348-4
PMID: 34091878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. J Prev Med Public Health. 2021 May;54(3):173-181. doi: 10.3961/jpmph.21.198.
 Epub 2021 May 7.

The National Health Plan 2030: Its Purpose and Directions of Development.

Oh Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Korea Health Promotion Institute, Seoul, Korea.

The National Health Plan 2030 (HP2030) started to be prepared in 2017 and was 
completed and announced in December 2020. This study presents an overview of how 
it was established, the major changes in policies, its purpose, and future 
directions. This study analyzed the steps taken in the past 4 years to establish 
HP2030 and reviewed major issues at the international and governmental levels 
based on an evaluation of HP2020 and its content. HP2030 establishes 6 divisions 
and 28 topic areas, and it will continue to expand investments in health with a 
total budget of 2.5 trillion Korean won. It also established goals to enhance 
health equity for the first time, with the goal of calculating healthy life 
expectancy in a way that reflects the circumstances of Korea and reducing the 
gap in income and healthy life expectancy between regions. The establishment of 
HP2030 is significant in that it constitutes a sustainable long-term plan with 
sufficient preparation, contains policy measures that everyone participates in 
and makes together, and works towards improvements in universal health standards 
and health equity. With the announcement of HP2030, which includes goals and 
directions of the national health policy for the next 10 years, it will be 
necessary to further strengthen collaboration with relevant ministries, local 
governments, and agencies in various fields to concretize support for 
prevention-centered health management as a national task and to develop a 
health-friendly environment that considers health in all policy areas.

DOI: 10.3961/jpmph.21.198
PMCID: PMC8190547
PMID: 34092063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST The author has no conflicts 
of interest associated with the material presented in this paper.


555. J Alzheimers Dis. 2021;82(2):803-813. doi: 10.3233/JAD-210225.

The Burden of Alzheimer's Disease Mortality in the United States, 1999-2018.

Zhao X(1), Li C(1), Ding G(1), Heng Y(1), Li A(2), Wang W(1)(3), Hou H(1), Wen 
J(4), Zhang Y(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Shandong First Medical University & Shandong Academy 
of Medical Sciences, Taian, China.
(2)Blood Research Institute, Blood Center of Wisconsin, part of Versiti, 
Milwaukee, WI, USA.
(3)School of Medical and Health Sciences, Edith Cowan University, Perth, 
Australia.
(4)School of Business and Law, Edith Cowan University, Perth, Australia.
(5)The Second Affiliated Hospital of Shandong First Medical University, Taian, 
China.

BACKGROUND: The increasing prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD), along with 
the associated burden on healthcare systems, presents a substantial public 
health challenge.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate trends in AD mortality and the 
relevant burden across the United States (U.S.) from 1999 to 2018 and to predict 
mortality trends between 2019 and 2023.
METHODS: Data on AD-related deaths between 1999 and 2018 were collected from the 
WONDER database administered by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC). The Joinpoint Regression Program was used to analyze mortality 
trends due to AD. Years of life lost (YLL) were calculated to explore the burden 
of AD deaths. An autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) model was 
employed to forecast mortality trends from 2019 to 2023.
RESULTS: Over a recent 20-year period, the number of AD deaths in the U.S. 
increased from 44,536 (31,145 females and 13,391 males) to 122,019 (84,062 
females and 37,957 males). The overall age-adjusted mortality rate increased 
from 16.5/100,000 in 1999 to 30.5/100,000 in 2018. AD mortality is projected to 
reach 42.40/100000 within the year 2023. Overall, AD resulted in 322,773.00 YLL 
(2.33 per 1000 population) in 1999 and 658,501.87 YLL (3.68 per 1000 population) 
in 2018.
CONCLUSION: Our findings demonstrate an increase in AD mortality in the U.S. 
from 1999 to 2018 as well as a rapid increase from 2019 to 2023. The high burden 
of AD deaths emphasizes the need for targeted prevention, early diagnosis, and 
hierarchical management.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-210225
PMID: 34092643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Am J Case Rep. 2021 Jun 7;22:e932239. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.932239.

A Case of Stage II Ascending Colon Cancer with Cardiac Tamponade Due to 
Pericardial Metastasis.

Sawada H(1), Toyota K(1), Hakoda K(1), Kajiwara R(1), Hotta R(1), Inoue M(1), 
Ohmori I(1), Miyamoto K(2), Sadamoto S(1), Takahashi T(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, National Hospital Organization Higashihiroshima 
Medical Center, Hiroshima, Japan.
(2)Department of Surgery, National Hospital Organization, Higashihiroshima 
Medical Center, Hiroshima, Japan.
(3)Department of Gastrointestinal and Transplant Surgery, Applied Life Sciences, 
Institute of Biomedical and Health Sciences, Hiroshima University, Hiroshima, 
Japan.

BACKGROUND Malignant tumors, such as lung and breast cancers, can metastasize to 
the heart. However, cardiac metastasis rarely occurs in colorectal cancer. 
Cardiac metastasis cases are typically asymptomatic and rarely cause cardiac 
tamponade. Heart failure due to systemic metastasis is a terminal symptom; 
therefore, cardiac metastasis is rarely diagnosed when a patient is alive. We 
report a case of stage II ascending colon cancer with cardiac tamponade due to 
pericardial metastasis. CASE REPORT The patient was a 63-year-old woman who 
underwent laparoscopic ileocecal resection for ascending colon cancer. The final 
pathological diagnosis was stage IIB cancer. At the time of surgery, computed 
tomography scans revealed no metastases to the regional lymph nodes, liver, 
lungs, and other organs. The patient was then referred for dyspnea 5 months 
after the surgery. Computed tomography revealed large quantities of pericardial 
effusion, and the patient was diagnosed with cardiac tamponade. The symptoms 
were alleviated after pericardiocentesis. Cytological examination of the 
pericardial fluid confirmed the diagnosis of adenocarcinoma, and by extension, 
cardiac metastasis of the ascending colon cancer. Anticancer agents were 
recommended, but the patient opted for palliative treatment. CONCLUSIONS We 
report a rare case of ascending colon cancer with pericardial metastasis. The 
advancements in chemotherapy have made the prognosis of colorectal cancer more 
favorable. The prevalence of pericardial metastasis is expected to increase as 
well. As such, it is necessary to discuss similar case encounters and establish 
appropriate treatment.

DOI: 10.12659/AJCR.932239
PMCID: PMC8197445
PMID: 34092783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None declared Conflict of 
Interest None.


557. Aging Dis. 2021 Jun 1;12(3):934-949. doi: 10.14336/AD.2020.1113. eCollection
 2021 Jun.

The Molecular Regulation in the Pathophysiology in Ovarian Aging.

Li CJ(1)(2), Lin LT(1)(2)(3), Tsai HW(1)(2), Chern CU(1), Wen ZH(4), Wang 
PH(3)(5)(6)(7), Tsui KH(1)(2)(3)(8).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Kaohsiung Veterans General 
Hospital, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(2)2Institute of BioPharmaceutical sciences, National Sun Yat-sen University, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(3)3Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, National Yang-Ming University 
School of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)4Department of Marine Biotechnology and Resources, National Sun Yat-sen 
University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(5)5Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, 
Taipei, Taiwan.
(6)6Department of Medical Research, China Medical University Hospital, Taichung, 
Taiwan.
(7)7Female Cancer Foundation, Taipei, Taiwan.
(8)8Department of Pharmacy and Master Program, College of Pharmacy and Health 
Care, Tajen University, Pingtung County, Taiwan.

The female reproductive system is of great significance to women's health. Aging 
of the female reproductive system occurs approximately 10 years prior to the 
natural age-associated functional decline of other organ systems. With an 
increase in life expectancy worldwide, reproductive aging has gradually become a 
key health issue among women. Therefore, an adequate understanding of the causes 
and molecular mechanisms of ovarian aging is essential towards the inhibition of 
age-related diseases and the promotion of health and longevity in women. In 
general, women begin to experience a decline in ovarian function around the age 
of 35 years, which is mainly manifested as a decrease in the number of ovarian 
follicles and the quality of oocytes. Studies have revealed the occurrence of 
mitochondrial dysfunction, reduced DNA repair, epigenetic changes, and metabolic 
alterations in the cells within the ovaries as age increases. In the present 
work, we reviewed the possible factors of aging-induced ovarian insufficiency 
based on its clinical diagnosis and performed an in-depth investigation of the 
relevant molecular mechanisms and potential targets to provide novel approaches 
for the effective improvement of ovarian function in older women.

copyright: © 2021 Li et al.

DOI: 10.14336/AD.2020.1113
PMCID: PMC8139203
PMID: 34094652

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The authors disclose no 
potential conflicts of interest.


558. Front Cell Dev Biol. 2021 May 19;9:680471. doi: 10.3389/fcell.2021.680471. 
eCollection 2021.

Understanding Reproductive Aging in Wildlife to Improve Animal Conservation and 
Human Reproductive Health.

Comizzoli P(1), Ottinger MA(2).

Author information:
(1)Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute, National Zoological Park, 
Washington, DC, United States.
(2)Department of Biology and Biochemistry, University of Houston, Houston, TX, 
United States.

Similar to humans and laboratory animals, reproductive aging is observed in wild 
species-from small invertebrates to large mammals. Aging issues are also 
prevalent in rare and endangered species under human care as their life 
expectancy is longer than in the wild. The objectives of this review are to (1) 
present conserved as well as distinctive traits of reproductive aging in 
different wild animal species (2) highlight the value of comparative studies to 
address aging issues in conservation breeding as well as in human reproductive 
medicine, and (3) suggest next steps forward in that research area. From social 
insects to mega-vertebrates, reproductive aging studies as well as observations 
in the wild or in breeding centers often remain at the physiological or 
organismal scale (senescence) rather than at the germ cell level. Overall, 
multiple traits are conserved across very different species (depletion of the 
ovarian reserve or no decline in testicular functions), but unique features also 
exist (endless reproductive life or unaltered quality of germ cells). There is a 
broad consensus about the need to fill research gaps because many cellular and 
molecular processes during reproductive aging remain undescribed. More research 
in male aging is particularly needed across all species. Furthermore, studies on 
reproductive aging of target species in their natural habitat (sentinel species) 
are crucial to define more accurate reproductive indicators relevant to other 
species, including humans, sharing the same environment. Wild species can 
significantly contribute to our general knowledge of a crucial phenomenon and 
provide new approaches to extend the reproductive lifespan.

Copyright © 2021 Comizzoli and Ottinger.

DOI: 10.3389/fcell.2021.680471
PMCID: PMC8170016
PMID: 34095152

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


559. Int Forum Allergy Rhinol. 2021 Nov;11(11):1557-1569. doi: 10.1002/alr.22816.
 Epub 2021 Jun 6.

Racial and ethnic disparities in paranasal sinus malignancies.

Sharma RK(1), Schlosser RJ(2), Beswick DM(3), Suh JD(3), Overdevest J(1), 
McKinney K(4), Gudis DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Columbia University 
Irving Medical Center, New York-Presbyterian Hospital, New York, NY.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Medical University of 
South Carolina, Charleston, SC.
(3)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, University of California Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, CA.
(4)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, University of Oklahoma, Oklahoma City, 
OK.

BACKGROUND: Racial and ethnic disparities in cancer outcomes have been 
demonstrated for several different malignancies. In this study we aimed to 
quantify disease-specific survival (DSS) and the 5-year conditional 
disease-specific survival (CDSS, the change in life expectancy with increasing 
survivorship) for paranasal sinus cancer by race and ethnicity.
METHODS: Patients with sinus cancer between 1973 and 2015 were extracted from 
the Surveillance, Epidemiology, End Results (SEER) registry. Kaplan-Meier 
analysis for DSS was stratified by race and ethnicity. Cox regression models of 
DSS were generated controlling for stage, age, race, and ethnicity. CDSS was 
calculated using Cox models. Logistic regression was conducted to identify risk 
factors for younger age at diagnosis, late-stage at diagnosis, and likelihood of 
receiving surgical intervention when recommended.
RESULTS: The analysis included a total of 5202 patients. DSS was significantly 
different when stratified by race (p < 0.01). Compared with White patients, 
Black patients (hazard ratio [HR], 1.29; 95% confidence interval [CI], 
1.13-1.45; p < 0.001) and American Indian/Alaskan Natives (HR, 1.94; 95% CI, 
1.37-2.74, p < 0.001) exhibited increased mortality when controlling for other 
factors. Black patients had worse CDSS for regional and distant staged cancer 
compared with other races; American Indian/Alaskan Native patients had worse 
CDSS for cancers of all stages. Hispanic patients were more likely to present 
with advanced disease (odds ratio [OR], 1.47; 95% CI, 1.07-2.07; p = 0.020). 
American Indian/Alaskan Native patients were less likely than White patients to 
receive surgical intervention when recommended (OR, 0.42; 95% CI, 0.21-0.04; 
p = 0.024). Nonwhite patients were more likely to be diagnosed at a younger age. 
Variations in racial and ethnic disparities were observed over time.
CONCLUSION: Race and ethnicity significantly impact paranasal sinus cancer 
outcome metrics. Disparities in outcomes are likely multifactorial.

© 2021 ARS-AAOA, LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/alr.22816
PMID: 34096200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Hand (N Y). 2023 Mar;18(2_suppl):17S-23S. doi: 10.1177/15589447211017223.
Epub  2021 Jun 6.

Madelung Deformity: Radioscapholunate Arthrodesis With a Neo-DRUJ.

Piek AR(1), Peymani A(1), Dobbe JGG(1), Buijze GA(1)(2), Chammas M(2), 
Streekstra GJ(1), Strackee SD(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)University of Montpellier, France.

BACKGROUND: Madelung deformity is a rare wrist anomaly that causes considerable 
pain while restricting function. In this study, we describe a radioscapholunate 
(RSL) arthrodesis with a neo-distal radioulnar joint (DRUJ) in Madelung 
deformity patients with an abnormal sigmoid notch and compare results to 
patients after a reverse wedge osteotomy.
METHODS: Six wrists underwent RSL arthrodesis with a neo-DRUJ in a two-phase 
approach: (1) modified RSL arthrodesis with triquetrectomy; and (2) distal 
scaphoidectomy. Seven wrists underwent a reverse wedge osteotomy procedure.
RESULTS: There were no differences found in postoperative pain, grip strength, 
or range of motion (ROM), apart from extension, which was decreased after RSL 
arthrodesis with a neo-DRUJ. Quality of life and Michigan Hand Outcomes 
Questionnaire scores were similar.
CONCLUSIONS: Although clinical outcome parameters are not different among the 
two groups, the RSL arthrodesis with construction of a neo-DRUJ could prove a 
valid treatment option for a subset of patients with a severely affected sigmoid 
notch.

DOI: 10.1177/15589447211017223
PMCID: PMC10052619
PMID: 34096342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


561. J Med Internet Res. 2021 Jun 7;23(6):e25409. doi: 10.2196/25409.

Why #WeAreNotWaiting-Motivations and Self-Reported Outcomes Among Users of 
Open-source Automated Insulin Delivery Systems: Multinational Survey.

Braune K(1)(2), Gajewska KA(3)(4), Thieffry A(5), Lewis DM(6), Froment T(7), 
O'Donnell S(7), Speight J(8)(9), Hendrieckx C(8)(9), Schipp J(8)(10), Skinner 
T(8)(10), Langstrup H(11), Tappe A(12), Raile K(1), Cleal B(13).

Author information:
(1)Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Department of Paediatric Endocrinology 
and Diabetes, Berlin, Germany.
(2)Berlin Institute of Health, Berlin, Germany.
(3)#dedoc° Diabetes Online Community, Berlin, Germany.
(4)Population Health Sciences, Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, Dublin, 
Ireland.
(5)Novo Nordisk Center for Biosustainability, Technical University of Denmark, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(6)#OpenAPS, Seattle, WA, United States.
(7)School of Sociology, University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(8)The Australian Centre for Behavioural Research in Diabetes, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(9)School of Psychology, Faculty of Health, Deakin University, Geelong, 
Australia.
(10)Department of Psychology, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(11)Department of Public Health, Section for Health Services Research, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(12)AndroidAPS, Hamilton, New Zealand.
(13)Diabetes Management Research, Steno Diabetes Center Copenhagen, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Automated insulin delivery (AID) systems have been shown to be safe 
and effective in reducing hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia but are not universally 
available, accessible, or affordable. Therefore, user-driven open-source AID 
systems are becoming increasingly popular.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to investigate the motivations for which people with 
diabetes (types 1, 2, and other) or their caregivers decide to build and use a 
personalized open-source AID.
METHODS: A cross-sectional web-based survey was conducted to assess personal 
motivations and associated self-reported clinical outcomes.
RESULTS: Of 897 participants from 35 countries, 80.5% (722) were adults with 
diabetes and 19.5% (175) were caregivers of children with diabetes. Primary 
motivations to commence open-source AID included improving glycemic outcomes 
(476/509 adults, 93.5%, and 95/100 caregivers, 95%), reducing acute (443/508 
adults, 87.2%, and 96/100 caregivers, 96%) and long-term (421/505 adults, 83.3%, 
and 91/100 caregivers, 91%) complication risk, interacting less frequently with 
diabetes technology (413/509 adults, 81.1%; 86/100 caregivers, 86%), improving 
their or child's sleep quality (364/508 adults, 71.6%, and 80/100 caregivers, 
80%), increasing their or child's life expectancy (381/507 adults, 75.1%, and 
84/100 caregivers, 84%), lack of commercially available AID systems (359/507 
adults, 70.8%, and 79/99 caregivers, 80%), and unachieved therapy goals with 
available therapy options (348/509 adults, 68.4%, and 69/100 caregivers, 69%). 
Improving their own sleep quality was an almost universal motivator for 
caregivers (94/100, 94%). Significant improvements, independent of age and 
gender, were observed in self-reported glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), 7.14% (SD 
1.13%; 54.5 mmol/mol, SD 12.4) to 6.24% (SD 0.64%; 44.7 mmol/mol, SD 7.0; 
P<.001), and time in range (62.96%, SD 16.18%, to 80.34%, SD 9.41%; P<.001).
CONCLUSIONS: These results highlight the unmet needs of people with diabetes, 
provide new insights into the evolving phenomenon of open-source AID technology, 
and indicate improved clinical outcomes. This study may inform health care 
professionals and policy makers about the opportunities provided by open-source 
AID systems.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): RR2-10.2196/15368.

©Katarina Braune, Katarzyna Anna Gajewska, Axel Thieffry, Dana Michelle Lewis, 
Timothée Froment, Shane O'Donnell, Jane Speight, Christel Hendrieckx, Jasmine 
Schipp, Timothy Skinner, Henriette Langstrup, Adrian Tappe, Klemens Raile, Bryan 
Cleal. Originally published in the Journal of Medical Internet Research 
(https://www.jmir.org), 07.06.2021.

DOI: 10.2196/25409
PMCID: PMC8218212
PMID: 34096874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the Unified Competing Interest form and declare the following: KB has 
received research grants from the Berlin Institute of Health, SPOKES Wellcome 
Trust, Stiftung Charité, and the German Diabetes Association (Deutsche Diabetes 
Gesellschaft). She has served as a speaker and advisory board member for 
Medtronic Diabetes and Hi.Health and received fees for medical consulting and 
public speaking from Roche Diabetes Care, Dexcom, Medtronic Diabetes, Diabeloop, 
BCG Digital Ventures, and Bertelsmann Stiftung, outside the submitted work. DL 
reports grants from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, JDRF, personal fees from 
Lilly, Diabeloop, Roche Diabetes Care, and Novo Nordisk and Tandem, outside the 
submitted work. J Speight has served on advisory boards for Janssen, Medtronic, 
Roche Diabetes Care, and Sanofi Diabetes; her research group (Australian Centre 
for Behavioural Research in Diabetes) has received honoraria for this advisory 
board participation and has also received unrestricted educational grants and 
in-kind support from Abbott Diabetes Care, AstraZeneca, Medtronic, Roche 
Diabetes Care, and Sanofi Diabetes. J Speight has also received sponsorship to 
attend educational meetings from Medtronic, Roche Diabetes Care, and Sanofi 
Diabetes and consultancy income or speaker fees from Abbott Diabetes Care, 
AstraZeneca, Medtronic, Novo Nordisk, Roche Diabetes Care, and Sanofi Diabetes, 
all outside the submitted work. KR is an advisory board member of Lilly Diabetes 
Care and Abbott Diabetes Care outside the submitted work. KB, DL, SO, A Tappe, 
and KAG are members of the open-source AID web-based community. All other 
authors have no conflict of interest to declare.


562. Nervenarzt. 2021 Jul;92(7):660-669. doi: 10.1007/s00115-021-01139-4. Epub
2021  Jun 7.

[Disease burden of borderline personality disorder: cost of illness, somatic 
comorbidity and mortality].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Jacobi F(1), Grafiadeli R(2), Volkmann H(2), Schneider I(3).

Author information:
(1)Klinische Psychologie und Psychotherapie, Psychologische Hochschule Berlin 
(PHB), Am Köllnischen Park 2, 10179, Berlin, Deutschland. f.jacobi@phb.de.
(2)Klinische Psychologie und Psychotherapie, Psychologische Hochschule Berlin 
(PHB), Am Köllnischen Park 2, 10179, Berlin, Deutschland.
(3)Klinik für Allgemeine Psychiatrie, Universitätsklinikum Heidelberg, Zentrum 
für Psychosoziale Medizin, Heidelberg, Deutschland.

BACKGROUND: Severe mental illnesses (SMI) are characterized by high psychosocial 
impairment as well as by increased somatic morbidity and mortality. The term SMI 
commonly includes psychotic, bipolar and severe unipolar depressive disorders 
but borderline personality disorder (BPD) also shows severe sequelae of the 
disease.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Published reviews and studies since 2010 examining disease 
burden of BPD, in terms of direct and indirect costs of illness, somatic 
comorbidity, and mortality were included. Furthermore, administrative data 
(clinically recorded billing data in Germany), comorbidity and mortality from 
a comprehensive analysis (n > 59 million, age ≥ 18 years) are reported.
RESULTS: International studies reveal an increased disease burden, comorbidity, 
and mortality for BPD. In Germany BPD (administrative 1‑year prevalence 0.34%) 
is associated with increased rates of somatic sequelae of trauma, hepatitis, 
HIV, COPD, asthma, and obesity. The estimated reduced life expectancy is 
5.0-9.3 years of life lost (depending on age and sex).
DISCUSSION: The burden of disease in BPD is clearly increased (cost of illness, 
somatic comorbidity and mortality). The increased mortality can mainly be 
explained by deaths as a consequence of poor physical health and associated 
BPD-related health behavior and only to a lesser degree by suicide. These 
results highlight the importance of classifying BPD as an SMI and the necessity 
to provide not only psychotherapeutic and psychiatric but also adequate somatic 
prevention and treatment. Individual improvement of everyday care as well as 
establishing new interdisciplinary and multiprofessional services could enhance 
health equality for people with BPD.

Publisher: ZUSAMMENFASSUNG: HINTERGRUND: Schwere psychische Störungen („severe 
mental illness“, SMI) sind charakterisiert durch hohe psychosoziale 
Beeinträchtigung, aber auch durch erhöhte somatische Morbidität und 
Übersterblichkeit. Zumeist werden psychotische und bipolare Störungen sowie 
schwere Depressionen den SMI zugerechnet, aber auch die 
Borderline-Persönlichkeitsstörung (BPS) weist schwere Krankheitsfolgen auf.
MATERIAL UND METHODEN: Neben der Recherche von internationalen 
Übersichtsarbeiten und Studien seit 2010 zur Krankheitslast der BPS im Sinne 
direkter und indirekter Krankheitskosten, somatischer Komorbidität sowie 
Mortalität berichten wir administrative Daten aus Deutschland (Abrechnungsdaten) 
aus einer umfangreichen Auswertung (n > 59 Mio. im Alter ≥ 18).
ERGEBNISSE: Internationale Studien weisen eine überdurchschnittlich hohe 
Krankheitslast der BPS aus. In Deutschland zeigt die BPS (administrative 
Jahresprävalenz: 0,34 %) u. a. erhöhte Raten für somatische Unfallfolgen, 
Hepatitiden, HIV, COPD, Asthma und Adipositas; der geschätzte Lebenszeitverlust 
beträgt 5,0 bis 9,3 Jahre (abhängig von Alter und Geschlecht).
DISKUSSION: Die Krankheitslast (Kosten, Komorbidität und Mortalität) ist bei der 
BPS deutlich erhöht. Die Übersterblichkeit ist dabei weniger auf Suizid als auf 
die schlechtere körperliche Gesundheit und assoziierte BPS-relevante 
Verhaltensweisen zurückzuführen. Dies spricht für die Einordnung der BPS als SMI 
und unterstreicht, wie notwendig (neben der psychotherapeutischen und 
psychiatrischen) auch die somatische Prävention und Versorgung ist. Individuelle 
Verbesserungen in der tagtäglichen Versorgung, aber auch neue interdisziplinäre 
und multiprofessionelle Versorgungsformen könnten die gesundheitliche 
Chancengerechtigkeit für Menschen mit BPS fördern.

DOI: 10.1007/s00115-021-01139-4
PMID: 34097089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Environ Pollut. 2021 Sep 1;284:117502. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2021.117502.
Epub  2021 Jun 2.

Year-round element quantification of a wide-ranging seabird and their 
relationships with oxidative stress, trophic ecology, and foraging patterns.

Laranjeiro MI(1), Alves LMF(2), da Silva JM(1), Pereira JM(3), Norte AC(1), 
Paiva VH(1), Lemos MFL(2), Ramos JA(1), Novais SC(2), Ceia FR(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Coimbra, MARE - Marine and Environmental Sciences Centre, 
Department of Life Sciences, Calçada Martim de Freitas, 3000-456, Coimbra, 
Portugal.
(2)MARE - Marine and Environmental Sciences Centre, ESTM, Politécnico de Leiria, 
2520-641, Peniche, Portugal.
(3)University of Coimbra, MARE - Marine and Environmental Sciences Centre, 
Department of Life Sciences, Calçada Martim de Freitas, 3000-456, Coimbra, 
Portugal; Environment and Sustainability Institute, University of Exeter, Penryn 
Campus, Penryn, Cornwall, TR10 9FE, UK.
(4)University of Coimbra, MARE - Marine and Environmental Sciences Centre, 
Department of Life Sciences, Calçada Martim de Freitas, 3000-456, Coimbra, 
Portugal. Electronic address: ceiafilipe@zoo.uc.pt.

Multidisciplinary approaches are essential to diligently assess environmental 
health status of ecosystems. In this study, year-round chemical elements' 
exposure and impacts were assessed on the wide-ranging Cory's shearwater 
Calonectris borealis breeding in Berlenga Island, offshore Portugal, North 
Atlantic Ocean. The aim was to identify potential contamination and oxidative 
stress sources associated with trophic ecology, habitat and spatial use, and 
foraging patterns. A set of 20 chemical elements were quantified, along with 
oxidative stress biomarkers, stable isotope analyses, and GPS tracking data. 
Birds presented higher accumulation to some non-essential elements along the 
year (i.e. arsenic, As; cadmium, Cd; mercury, Hg; lead, Pb; and strontium, Sr), 
in which concentrations were similar or surpassed other procellariform seabird 
populations all over the world. No significant differences were found for any of 
the elements between different periods within the breeding season, with 
exception of Hg. However, a Principal Component Analysis taking into 
consideration a group of elements showed differences between pre-laying and 
chick-rearing periods, with overall higher concentrations in the former. 
Individuals spending more time engaging in an intensive search for food, and in 
more coastal environments, presented overall higher element concentrations, and 
particularly Hg. Contrary to expectations, no relationships were found between 
chemical elements and oxidative stress. On the other hand, spatial use and 
foraging patterns of Cory's shearwaters influenced their oxidative stress 
responses. Our results highlight the need for multidisciplinary approaches to 
deepen understanding of the large-scale vulnerability of bioindicators such as 
seabirds and, by extension, the overall environmental health of ecosystems in 
which they rely.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2021.117502
PMID: 34098370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. J Med Econ. 2021 Jan-Dec;24(1):883-890. doi: 10.1080/13696998.2021.1939706.

Cost-effectiveness of a novel hybrid closed-loop system compared with continuous 
subcutaneous insulin infusion in people with type 1 diabetes in the UK.

Roze S(1), Buompensiere MI(2), Ozdemir Z(2), de Portu S(2), Cohen O(2).

Author information:
(1)Vyoo Agency, Lyon, France.
(2)Medtronic International Trading Sàrl, Tolochenaz, Switzerland.

AIMS: The MiniMed 670 G insulin pump system is the first commercially available 
hybrid closed-loop (HCL) insulin delivery system and clinical studies have shown 
that this device is associated with incremental benefits in glycemic control 
relative to continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) with or without 
continuous glucose monitoring (CGM). The aim was to evaluate the long-term 
cost-effectiveness of the MiniMed 670 G system versus CSII alone in people with 
type 1 diabetes (T1D) in the UK.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis was performed using the IQVIA 
CORE Diabetes Model. Clinical input data were sourced from a clinical trial of 
the MiniMed 670 G system in 124 adults and adolescents with T1D. The analysis 
was performed over a lifetime time horizon and both future costs and clinical 
outcomes were discounted at 3.5% per annum. The analysis was performed from a 
healthcare payer perspective.
RESULTS: The use of the MiniMed 670 G system led to an improvement in 
quality-adjusted life expectancy of 1.73 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), 
relative to CSII. Total lifetime direct costs were GBP 35,425 higher with the 
MiniMed 670 G system than with CSII resulting in an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of GBP 20,421 per QALY gained. Sensitivity 
analyses revealed that the ICER was sensitive to assumptions around glycemic 
control and assumptions relating to the quality-of-life benefit associated with 
a reduction in fear of hypoglycemia.
LIMITATIONS: Long-term projections from short-term data are inherently 
associated with uncertainty but represent arguably the best available evidence 
in lieu of long-term clinical trials.
CONCLUSIONS: In the UK, over patient lifetimes, the incremental clinical 
benefits associated with the use of MiniMed 670 G system means that it is likely 
to be cost-effective relative to the continued use of CSII in people with T1D, 
particularly for those with a fear of hypoglycemia or poor baseline glycemic 
control.

