Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement SAA, EH, and NKL 
declare no conflict of interest. KCK served on an Advisory Board for LEAP 
Therapeutics through GOG Foundation, outside of the submitted work.


585. Burns. 2021 Sep;47(6):1252-1258. doi: 10.1016/j.burns.2021.05.012. Epub 2021
May  30.

Long-term survival among elderly after burns compared with national mean 
remaining life expectancy.

Firchal EW(1), Sjoberg F(2), Fredrikson M(3), Pompermaier L(1), Elmasry M(1), 
Steinvall I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hand Surgery, Plastic Surgery and Burns in Linköping 
University, Sweden; Department of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences, Linköping 
University, Linköping, Sweden.
(2)Department of Hand Surgery, Plastic Surgery and Burns in Linköping 
University, Sweden; Department of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences, Linköping 
University, Linköping, Sweden; Department of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care, 
Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden. Electronic address: 
folke.sjoberg@liu.se.
(3)Department of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences, Linköping University, 
Linköping, Sweden.

INTRODUCTION: As compared to younger adults, older people have a greater risk of 
domestic accidents, such as burns, and their prognosis is worsened by a 
diminished physiological ability to face a thermal trauma. The in-hospital 
mortality is adversely affected by old age and burn size, whereas less is known 
about the long-term-survival in elderly patients who survive a burn injury. The 
aim of this study was to investigate if elderly burn patients after discharge 
from a Swedish National Burn Centre have a shorter remaining life compared to 
the national population, by using calculated remaining Life Expectancy (rLE).
METHODS: In this retrospective study we included all patients who were admitted 
for burns to the Linköping Burn Centre during 1993-2016 and who were 60 years or 
older and alive, at the time of discharge. The control group was extracted from 
Statistics Sweden, the national statistics database, and consisted of all 
individuals from the Swedish population matched for each patient in the study 
group, by sex and age at the year of discharge. The proportion who died before 
reaching the rLE was compared between the study population and the control group 
by calculating risk ratio.
RESULTS: The study group consisted of 111 former patients and 77 of them (69%) 
died before reaching the rLE, with mean 4.7 years of life lost (YLL), which was 
33% more than that (52%) of the control group (RR 1.33, 95% CI 1.18-1.51). Burn 
related factors, such as TBSA % or FTB % were not found to account for this 
effect.
CONCLUSION: We found that the long-time survival of elderly patients after burns 
is shorter than that of a national control, the magnitude of which is 
quantitatively important. The current study does not support that burn related 
factors account for this effect and the reason should therefore be sought in 
other factors, such as e.g., co-morbidity or psychosocial issues.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd and ISBI. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.burns.2021.05.012
PMID: 34103200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Rev Esp Cardiol (Engl Ed). 2022 Apr;75(4):294-299. doi: 
10.1016/j.rec.2021.04.010. Epub 2021 Jun 5.

Life expectancy after aortic valve replacement in young patients.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Hernández-Vaquero D(1), Rodríguez-Caulo E(2), Vigil-Escalera C(3), 
Blanco-Herrera Ó(4), Berastegui E(5), Arias-Dachary J(6), Souaf S(7), Parody 
G(2), Laguna G(8), Adsuar A(9), Castellá M(10), Valderrama JF(11), Pulitani 
I(12), Cánovas S(13), Ferreiro A(14), García-Valentín A(15), Carnero M(16), 
Pareja P(17), Corrales JA(18), Blázquez JA(19), Macías D(20), Fletcher-Sanfeliu 
D(21), Martínez D(22), Martín E(23), Martín M(24), Margarit J(25), 
Hernández-Estefanía R(26), Monguió E(27), Otero J(28), Silva J(3).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario Central de Asturias, 
Oviedo, Asturias, Spain. Electronic address: dhvaquero@gmail.com.
(2)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario Virgen de la Macarena, 
Seville, Spain.
(3)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario Central de Asturias, 
Oviedo, Asturias, Spain.
(4)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario La Fe, Valencia, Spain.
(5)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol, Badalona, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario Reina Sofía, Cordoba, 
Spain.
(7)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Clínico Universitario, Santiago de 
Compostela, A Coruña, Spain.
(8)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Clínico Universitario de Valladolid, 
Valladolid, Spain.
(9)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario Virgen del Rocío, 
Seville, Spain.
(10)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Clínico Universitario de Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(11)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario Regional de Málaga, 
Malaga, Spain.
(12)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Marqués de Valdecilla, Santander, 
Cantabria, Spain.
(13)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario Virgen de la Arrixaca, 
El Palmar, Murcia, Spain.
(14)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario Virgen de las Nieves, 
Granada, Spain.
(15)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital General Universitario, Alicante, 
Spain.
(16)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Clínico San Carlos, Madrid, Spain.
(17)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario Virgen de la Salud, 
Toledo, Spain.
(18)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario de Badajoz, Badajoz, 
Spain.
(19)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, Spain.
(20)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario Puerta del Mar, Cádiz, 
Spain.
(21)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario Son Espases, Palma, 
Balearic Islands, Spain.
(22)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario Puerta de Hierro, 
Madrid, Spain.
(23)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario de León, Leon, Spain.
(24)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal, Madrid, 
Spain.
(25)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario Público de la Ribera, 
Alzira, Valencia, Spain.
(26)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario Fundación Jiménez Díaz, 
Madrid, Spain.
(27)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario La Princesa, Madrid, 
Spain.
(28)Servicio de Cirugía Cardiaca, Hospital Universitario Virgen de la Victoria, 
Malaga, Spain.

INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: In young patients with severe aortic stenosis, it 
is unknown whether their life expectancy restored after aortic valve replacement 
(AVR) is unknown.
METHODS: We analyzed all patients aged between 50 and 65 years who underwent 
isolated AVR in 27 Spanish centers during an 18-year period. We compared 
observed and expected survival at 15 years of follow-up. We repeated all 
analyses for patients without complications in the postoperative period.
RESULTS: A total of 5084 patients were analyzed. For the overall sample, 
observed survival at 10 and 15 years was 85.3% (95%CI, 84.1%-86.4%) and 73.7% 
(95%CI, 71.6%-75.6%), respectively. Expected survival was 90.1% and 82.1%. 
Cumulative relative survival for 1, 5, 10 and 15 years of follow-up was 97.4% 
(95%CI, 96.9%-97.9%), 96.5% (95%CI, 95.7%-97.3%), 94.7% (95%CI, 93.3%-95.9%), 
and 89.8% (95%CI, 87.3%-92.1%). For patients without complications, cumulative 
relative survival for 1, 5, 10 and 15 years was 100.3% (95%CI, 99.8%-100.5%), 
98.9% (95%CI 97.6% -99.9%), 97.3% (95%CI, 94.9%-99.4%), and 91.9% (95%CI, 
86.5%-96.8%).
CONCLUSIONS: Life expectancy in young patients who have severe aortic stenosis 
and undergo AVR is lower than that of the general population. Life expectancy of 
individuals without complications during the postoperative period is also 
reduced. Therefore, baseline characteristics are likely the main factors that 
explain the reduction in life expectancy.

Copyright © 2021 Sociedad Española de Cardiología. Published by Elsevier España, 
S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rec.2021.04.010
PMID: 34103259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. J Med Ethics. 2022 Sep;48(9):624-628. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2020-106978.
Epub  2021 Jun 8.

Rare diseases in healthcare priority setting: should rarity matter?

Albertsen A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Political Science, School of Business and Social Sciences, 
Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark aba@ps.au.dk.

Rare diseases pose a particular priority setting problem. The UK gives rare 
diseases special priority in healthcare priority setting. Effectively, the 
National Health Service is willing to pay much more to gain a quality-adjusted 
life-year related to a very rare disease than one related to a more common 
condition. But should rare diseases receive priority in the allocation of scarce 
healthcare resources? This article develops and evaluates four arguments in 
favour of such a priority. These pertain to public values, luck egalitarian 
distributive justice the epistemic difficulties of obtaining knowledge about 
rare diseases and the incentives created by a higher willingness to pay. The 
first is at odds with our knowledge regarding popular opinion. The three other 
arguments may provide a reason to fund rare diseases generously. However, they 
are either overinclusive because they would also justify funding for many 
non-rare diseases or underinclusive in the sense of justifying priority for only 
some rare diseases. The arguments thus fail to provide a justification that 
tracks rareness as such.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2020-106978
PMID: 34103369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


588. Sci Rep. 2021 Jun 8;11(1):12096. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-91624-2.

Osmotically balanced, large unilamellar liposomes that enable sustained 
bupivacaine release for prolonged pain relief in in vivo rat models.

Yoo H(#)(1), Park JS(#)(2), Oh SS(3), Kang H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Pohang University of Science 
and Technology (POSTECH), Pohang, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Surgery, Kyungpook National University Hospital, Kyungpook 
National University School of Medicine, Daegu, Korea.
(3)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Pohang University of Science 
and Technology (POSTECH), Pohang, Republic of Korea. seungsoo@postech.ac.kr.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine, College of Medicine, 
Chung-Ang University, Seoul, Republic of Korea. roman00@naver.com.
(#)Contributed equally

To efficiently prolong analgesic effects, we developed osmotically balanced, 
large unilamellar liposomes (~ 6 μm in diameter) in which highly concentrated 
bupivacaine (up to 30 mg/mL) was encapsulated, and their sustained bupivacaine 
release was highly effective in relieving postoperative pain over 24 h in a rat 
model. Our reverse-phase evaporation method based on non-toxic alcohol, ethanol, 
enabled simple and cost-effective production of bupivacaine-loaded liposomes, of 
which osmotic pressure was readily balanced to improve the structural stability 
of the enlarged unilamellar liposomes along with extension of their shelf life 
(> a month). The in vitro release profile verified that the release duration of 
the bupivacaine-loaded liposomes extended up to 6 days. For the in vivo study, 
male Sprague-Dawley rats were used for the incisional pain model, simulating 
postoperative pain, and the mechanical withdrawal threshold (MWT) was measured 
using a von Frey filament. Compared to the control group that received 
intraplantar administration of normal saline, the group of liposomal bupivacaine 
showed that the initially increased MWT gradually decreased up to 24 h, and 
importantly, the analgesic effect of the liposomal bupivacaine was maintained 6 
times longer than that of bupivacaine only, proving the potential of effective 
long-acting anesthetics.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-91624-2
PMCID: PMC8187397
PMID: 34103656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


589. Inter Econ. 2021;56(3):174-177. doi: 10.1007/s10272-021-0975-8. Epub 2021
Jun 4.

A Deeper Union: From a Failed Project to the European Quality Lead.

Aiginger K(1).

Author information:
(1)c/o ÖGfE, Sekretariat Maxine Amstätter, Policy Crossover Center: Vienna - 
Europe, Rotenhausgasse 6, 1090 Vienna, Austria.

After President Trump's departure, many expected that the transatlantic 
partnership would return to its previous state with the US playing a leading 
role. This article challenges that view. Instead, a new world order is foreseen, 
with different partnerships and spheres of influence. Europe can decide whether 
it wants to remain small and homogeneous or a larger but also more heterogenous 
Union that leads in welfare indicators such as life expectancy, fighting poverty 
and limiting climate change. Expanding this lead and communicating its 
uniqueness can empower Europe to combine enlargement and deepening, which 
appears unlikely without changes in governance and self-confidence.

© The Author(s) 2021.

DOI: 10.1007/s10272-021-0975-8
PMCID: PMC8176667
PMID: 34103763


590. Int J Gen Med. 2021 May 31;14:2171-2182. doi: 10.2147/IJGM.S310416.
eCollection  2021.

Premature Mortality Due to Tobacco-Related Malignancies in Poland.

Moryson W(1), Stawinska-Witoszynska B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Hygiene, Chair of Social Medicine, Poznan 
University of Medical Sciences, Poznan, 60-806, Wielkopolska, Poland.

INTRODUCTION: Although in Poland at the turn of the 20th and 21st centuries, 
tobacco consumption per capita was one of the highest in the world as a result 
of specific political and social conditions, nicotinism was the most common 
preventable cause of death that reduced life expectancy by 10 years on average. 
The aim of this study is to determine the level of premature mortality and its 
trends by age and sex for tobacco-related malignancies in Poland in the years 
2008-2017.
METHODS: The standardised premature mortality rates as well as mortality rates 
for five-year age ranges according to the patients' sex were used. The Joinpoint 
model was used to determine the time trends.
RESULTS: Premature mortality due to all tobacco-dependent cancers analysed 
decreased in Poland throughout the analysed period in both male (2.5% per year) 
and female (1% per year) populations. A detailed analysis of individual diseases 
showed that a decrease in premature mortality was observed for almost all 
malignancies with the exception of malignant liver cancer among males, malignant 
oesophageal cancer among females and malignant lip, oral cavity and 
oropharyngeal cancer in both sexes. The reduction in mortality from all 
tobacco-related cancers in the male population was greatest between 40 and 44 
years of age, reaching 5.6% year on year. Similarly, in the case of females, the 
decline in mortality was greater in the younger age cohorts and decreased in 
those aged over 50.
CONCLUSION: The favourable phenomenon of decreasing the level of premature 
mortality caused by tobacco-related malignancies may be associated, among 
others, with the policy of primary prevention of these diseases in the form of a 
widespread ban on smoking in public places, intensive information campaigns on 
the harmfulness of tobacco smoking and increasing taxation on tobacco products.

© 2021 Moryson and Stawinska-Witoszynska.

DOI: 10.2147/IJGM.S310416
PMCID: PMC8180298
PMID: 34103972

Conflict of interest statement: The authors reported no conflicts of interest 
for this work and declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any 
commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential 
conflict of interest.


591. Drugs Context. 2021 May 19;10:2021-2-5. doi: 10.7573/dic.2021-2-5.
eCollection  2021.

Refractory symptoms in paediatric palliative care: can ketamine help?

Benini F(1), Congedi S(1), Giacomelli L(2), Papa S(2), Shah A(2), Milani 
G(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Centro Regionale Veneto di Terapia del Dolore and Cure Palliative 
Pediatriche, Hospice Pediatrico, Padua, Italy.
(2)Polistudium SRL, Milan, Italy.
(3)Department of Clinical Sciences and Community Health, Università degli Studi 
di Milano, Milan, Italy.
(4)Pediatric Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, 
Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: One of the main challenges for paediatric palliative care (PPC) is 
the management of concomitant, different and severe symptoms that frequently 
affect the quality of life of PPC patients and are often refractory to commonly 
used pharmacological treatments. Consequently, many efforts are still needed to 
find the best therapeutic options to handle these refractory conditions. Since 
the first synthesis of ketamine in the 1960s, its pharmacokinetic and 
pharmacodynamic properties have been largely investigated and its potential wide 
range of clinical applications has become clear. However, this molecule still 
receives poor attention in some areas, including in children and PPC. This 
narrative review analyses the use of ketamine in children and the potential 
extension of its applications in PPC in order to provide new options for 
treatment in the PPC setting.
METHODS: Scientific papers published before October 2020 on MEDLINE, EMBASE and 
the Cochrane Library were considered. The cited references of the selected 
papers and the authors' personal collections of literature were reviewed. The 
terms "palliative care", "ketamine", "neuropathic pain", "procedural pain", 
"status epilepticus", "refractory pain" and "child", adding "age: birth-18 
years" on a further filter were used for the search.
DISCUSSION: The use of ketamine in PPC should be more widely considered due to 
its overall favourable safety profile and its efficacy, which are supported by 
an increasing number of studies, although in settings different from PPC and of 
mixed quality. Ketamine should be proposed according to a case-by-case 
evaluation and the specific diagnosis and the dosage and route of administration 
should be tailored to the specific needs of patients. Furthermore, there is 
evidence to suggest that ketamine is safe and efficacious in acute pain. These 
findings can prompt further research on the use of ketamine for the treatment of 
acute pain in PPC.
CONCLUSION: Ketamine could be a suitable option after the failure of 
conventional drugs in the treatment of different refractory conditions in PPC.

Copyright © 2021 Benini F, Congedi S, Giacomelli L, Papa S, Shah A, Milani G.

DOI: 10.7573/dic.2021-2-5
PMCID: PMC8152774
PMID: 34104198

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure and potential conflicts of interest: 
The authors declare no conflicts or financial interest in any product or service 
mentioned in the manuscript, including grants, equipment, medications, 
employment, gifts and honoraria. All authors have approved the version to be 
published. The International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE) 
Potential Conflicts of Interests form for the authors is available for download 
at: 
https://www.drugsincontext.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/dic.2021-2-5-COI.pdf


592. Glob Pediatr Health. 2021 May 24;8:2333794X211016151. doi: 
10.1177/2333794X211016151. eCollection 2021.

Community Based Essential Newborn Care Practices and Associated Factors among 
Women Who Gave Birth at Home in Last 12 Months in Amaro Woreda, Southern 
Ethiopia, 2019.

Agonafir M(1), Shimbre MS(2), Hussen S(2), Temesgen G(2), Boday B(3), Tunje 
A(2), Fikadu T(1)(2)(3)(4), Andarge E(2), Fufa Y(3), Gebrewold Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Save the Children Ethiopia, Addis Ababa, SNNPR, Ethiopia.
(2)Arba Minch Universities, Arba Minch, SNNPR, Ethiopia.
(3)Ethiopia Public Health Institute, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(4)Federal Ministry of Health, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

Community based newborn care is a means of bringing life-saving care to mothers 
and newborns at the community level. However, the practice is challenging within 
the Ethiopian health system. The aim of this study was to assess prevalence of 
community based newborn care practices and associated factors among women who 
gave birth at home in Amaro Woreda, southern Ethiopia, 2019. Across-sectional 
study design and simple random sampling technique was employed to select study 
participants. Data was collected through face-to-face interview; EpiData version 
3.1 and SPSS version 20 software were used for analysis. Bi-variable and 
multivariable logistic regression was employed to analyze the associated 
factors. In this study 29% practiced community based essential newborn care. 
Educational status of father (AOR = 2.28; 95% CI: 1.07-4.84), last delivery 
assisted by relative (AOR = 3.58; 95% CI: 1.66-7.73), having awareness about 
community based newborn care (AOR = 3.49; 95% CI: 2.11-5.77), awareness about 
newborn danger sign (AOR = 2.18; 95% CI: 1.29-3.68) were some of identified 
factors associated with community based newborn care practice. In conclusion, 
community based newborn care practice was low. Therefore, promotion of 
information at community level, women empowerment, and strengthening health 
extension program were recommending.

© The Author(s) 2021.

DOI: 10.1177/2333794X211016151
PMCID: PMC8155756
PMID: 34104692

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


593. Nervenarzt. 2021 Jul;92(7):643-652. doi: 10.1007/s00115-021-01140-x. Epub
2021  Jun 8.

[What do we know about borderline personality disorder? Current aspects of 
etiology, diagnostics and treatment].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Stoffers-Winterling J(1), Krause-Utz A(2), Lieb K(1), Bohus M(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie, Universitätsmedizin Mainz, Mainz, 
Deutschland.
(2)Abteilung für Klinische Psychologie, Leiden Institute of Brain and Cognitio, 
AK Leiden, Universität Leiden, Leiden, Niederlande.
(3)Institut für Psychiatrische und Psychosomatische Psychotherapie, Lehrstuhl 
für Psychosomatische Medizin und Psychotherapie, Medizinische Fakultät Mannheim, 
Universität Heidelberg, Zentralinstitut für Seelische Gesundheit Mannheim, J 5, 
68159, Mannheim, Deutschland. martin.bohus@zi-mannheim.de.
(4)Harvard Medical School, Boston, USA. martin.bohus@zi-mannheim.de.

BACKGROUND: Borderline personality disorder (BPS) is considered as a severe 
mental disorder with a high burden for patients, family members and the 
healthcare system. Recent years have brought significant advances in 
understanding and treating BP, leading to an earlier diagnosis and better 
treatment outcomes.
OBJECTIVE: This article outlines the current state of knowledge on the 
epidemiology, diagnostics, psychopathology and treatment of BPD and identifies 
open questions.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Based on a literature search in the PubMed, PsycINFO and 
EMBASE databases, the latest developments in the topic of BPD for the areas of 
diagnostics, epidemiology, etiology and treatment are illuminated in a narrative 
review. Where possible systematic review articles, meta-analyses and 
evidence-based practice guidelines were also considered.
STATE OF THE SCIENCE: At the core of BPS are disorders of emotion regulation, 
self-image, and interpersonal interaction. The suicide rates range from 2% to 5% 
and life expectancy is significantly shortened compared with the general 
population. The effectiveness of differentiated, disorder-specific psychotherapy 
(especially dialectic behavioral therapy, DBT) is well established. 
Psychotherapeutic care in the outpatient sector, especially in the field of 
pediatric and adolescent psychiatry, is still insufficient.
PERSPECTIVES: Questions about the etiopathology, especially genetic and 
postulated neurobiological parameters that determine affective hypersensitivity, 
are largely open. Nosologically, the differentiation from comorbid complex 
posttraumatic stress disorder (cPTSD) is certainly an important issue, which 
also has therapeutic consequences.

Publisher: ZUSAMMENFASSUNG: HINTERGRUND: Die Borderline-Persönlichkeitsstörung 
(BPS) gilt als schwerwiegende psychische Störung mit hoher Belastung für 
Patienten, Familienmitglieder und das Gesundheitssystem. Die letzten Jahre 
brachten deutliche Fortschritte im Verständnis und in der Therapie der BPS, was 
zu einer früheren Diagnose und besseren Behandlungsergebnissen geführt hat.
ZIEL DER ARBEIT: Der Artikel skizziert den aktuellen Wissensstand zu 
Epidemiologie, Diagnostik, Psychopathologie und Behandlung der BPS und zeigt 
offene Fragen auf.
MATERIAL UND METHODEN: Mittels eines narrativen Reviews auf Basis einer 
Literatursuche in den Datenbanken PubMed, PsycINFO und EMBASE werden die 
neuesten Entwicklungen zum Thema BPS für die Bereiche Diagnostik, Epidemiologie, 
Ätiologie und Therapie beleuchtet. Hierfür wurden, wo möglich, systematische 
Übersichtsarbeiten und Metaanalysen sowie evidenzbasierte Praxisleitlinien 
berücksichtigt.
STAND DER WISSENSCHAFT: Im Zentrum der BPS stehen Störungen der 
Emotionsregulation, des Selbstbildes und der zwischenmenschlichen Interaktion. 
Die Suizidraten liegen zwischen 2 und 5 %, die Lebenserwartung ist gegenüber der 
Normalpopulation deutlich verkürzt. Die Wirksamkeit differenzierter, 
störungsspezifischer Psychotherapie (insbesondere dialektisch-behaviorale 
Therapie) ist gut belegt. Die psychotherapeutische Versorgung im ambulanten 
Sektor, insbesondere im Bereich der Kinder- und Jugendpsychiatrie, ist noch 
immer ungenügend.
PERSPEKTIVEN: Fragen zur Ätiopathologie, insbesondere genetische und postulierte 
neurobiologische Parameter, die für eine affektive Hypersensitivität 
determinieren, sind weitgehend offen. Nosologisch ist die Abgrenzung zur 
komorbiden posttraumatischen Belastungsstörung (PTBS) sicherlich ein wichtiges 
Thema, das auch therapeutische Konsequenzen hat.

DOI: 10.1007/s00115-021-01140-x
PMID: 34104974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Environ Manage. 2021 Aug;68(2):240-261. doi: 10.1007/s00267-021-01492-9.
Epub  2021 Jun 8.

Evaluating the Effectiveness of Best Management Practices On Soil Erosion 
Reduction Using the SWAT Model: for the Case of Gumara Watershed, Abbay (Upper 
Blue Nile) Basin.

Gashaw T(1), Dile YT(2), Worqlul AW(3), Bantider A(4)(5), Zeleke G(4), Bewket 
W(4)(6), Alamirew T(4)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Natural Resource Management, College of Agriculture and 
Environmental Science, Bahir Dar University, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia. 
gtemesgen114@gmail.com.
(2)College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Texas A&M University, College 
Station, TX, USA.
(3)Blackland Research and Extension Center, Texas A & M University, Temple, TX, 
USA.
(4)Water and Land Resource Center, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, 
Ethiopia.
(5)College of Development Studies, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, 
Ethiopia.
(6)Department of Geography and Environmental Studies, Addis Ababa University, 
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(7)Ethiopiann Institute of Water Resources, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, 
Ethiopia.

This study was conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of best management 
practices (BMPs) to reduce soil erosion in Gumara watershed of the Abbay (Upper 
Blue Nile) Basin using the Soil and Water Assessment Tool (SWAT) model. The 
model was calibrated (1995-2002) and validated (2003-2007) using the SWAT-CUP 
based on observed streamflow and sediment yield data at the watershed outlet. 
The study evaluated four individual BMP Scenarios; namely, filter strips (FS), 
stone/soil bunds (SSB), grassed waterways (GW) and reforestation of croplands 
(RC), and three blended BMP Scenarios, which combines individual BMPS of FS and 
RC (FS & RC), GW and RC (GW & RC), and SSB and GW (SSB & GW). Mean annual 
sediment yield at the baseline conditions was estimated at 19.7 t ha-1yr-1, 
which was reduced by 13.7, 30.5, 16.2 and 25.9% in the FS, SSB, GW, and RC 
Scenarios, respectively at the watershed scale. The highest reduction efficiency 
of 34% was achieved through the implementations of the SSB & GW Scenario. The GW 
& RC, and FS & RC Scenarios reduced the baseline sediment yield by 32% and 
29.9%, respectively. The study therefore concluded that the combined Scenarios 
mainly SSB & GW, and GW & RC can be applied to reduce the high soil erosion in 
the Gumera watershed, and similar agro-ecological watersheds in Ethiopia. In 
cases where applying the combined scenarios is not possible, the SSB Scenario 
can yield significant soil erosion reduction.

DOI: 10.1007/s00267-021-01492-9
PMID: 34105015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. J Cachexia Sarcopenia Muscle. 2021 Aug;12(4):843-854. doi:
10.1002/jcsm.12717.  Epub 2021 Jun 9.

Four weeks of electromyostimulation improves muscle function and strength in 
sarcopenic patients: a three-arm parallel randomized trial.

Teschler M(1)(2), Heimer M(1)(2), Schmitz B(1)(2), Kemmler W(3), Mooren 
FC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Faculty of Health, University of 
Witten/Herdecke, Witten, Germany.
(2)Klinik Königsfeld der DRV, Department of Cardiology and Orthopedics Clinic, 
Center for Medical Rehabilitation, Ennepetal, Germany.
(3)Institute of Medical Physics, Friedrich-Alexander University 
Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Sarcopenia, defined as loss of muscle mass, quality, and function, 
is associated with reduced quality of life and adverse health outcomes including 
disability and mortality. Electromyostimulation (EMS) has been suggested to 
attenuate the loss of muscle mass and function in elderly, sedentary 
individuals. This study aimed to investigate the effects of EMS on muscle 
strength and function during 4 weeks of inpatient medical rehabilitation.
METHODS: Patients receiving 4 weeks of inpatient medical rehabilitation 
diagnosed with sarcopenia using bioimpedance analysis were eligible to 
participate. One hundred and thirty-four patients (55.7 ± 7.9 years, 25.4% 
female) were randomly assigned to three groups: whole-body (WB) EMS (n = 48): 
stimulation of major muscle groups (pectoral muscles, latissimus, trapezius, 
abdominals, upper arm and leg, lower back muscles, gluteal muscles, and thighs); 
part-body (PB) EMS (n = 42): stimulation of leg muscles including gluteal 
muscles and thighs; and control group (CG, n = 44). All participants performed 
six 20 min training sessions including dynamic movements (squats, lunges, biceps 
curl, chest press, butterfly reverse, reverse lunges, standing diagonal 
crunches, etc.) with superimposed (WB-, PB-) EMS or without EMS (CG) in addition 
to the standard rehabilitation programme. Primary outcome variables included 
muscle function assessed by chair rise test and 6 min walking test as well as 
muscle strength (isometric grip strength, leg, arm, and back extension).
RESULTS: Primary outcome variables chair rise test and leg extension improved 
significantly (P = 0.001, η2  = 0.06 and P = 0.008, η2  = 0.06; EMS vs. CG) in 
that chair rise test results increased in WB-EMS from 5 (4; 7) to 7 (5; 9), in 
PB-EMS from 5 (5; 7) to 7 (6; 8), and in CG from 6 (4; 7) to 7 (5; 8) 
repetitions. Knee extension increased in WB-EMS from 692.3 ± 248.6 to 
831.7 ± 298.7 N, in PB-EMS from 682.8 ± 257.8 to 790.2 ± 270.2 N, and in CG from 
638.5 ± 236.9 to 703.2 ± 218.6 N. No adverse events or side effects occurred.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that EMS might be an additional training option to 
improve muscle function and strength in sarcopenic patients during a 4 week 
rehabilitation programme. EMS provides greater functional and strength 
improvements compared with standard treatment with additional potential health 
benefits for sarcopenic cardiac and orthopaedic patients.

© 2021 The Authors. Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society on Sarcopenia, Cachexia and Wasting 
Disorders.

DOI: 10.1002/jcsm.12717
PMCID: PMC8350212
PMID: 34105256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


596. Salud Colect. 2021 Jun 7;17:e3334. doi: 10.18294/sc.2021.3334.

[Mapping the intricacies of care networks for persons with disabilities, from 
the perspectives of users-citizens-guides].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Sampaio J(1), Barbosa DS(2), Gomes LB(3), Peixoto DA(4), Menezes TA(5), Zózimo 
HHL(6), Lyra MFB(7).

Author information:
(1)Doctora en Salud Pública. Profesora Asociada, Departamento de Promoção da 
Saúde, Centro de Ciências Médicas, Universidade Federal da Paraíba, João Pessoa, 
Paraíba, Brasil. julianasmp@hotmail.com.
(2)Doctora en Educación. Profesora Adjunta, Departamento de Promoção da Saúde, 
Centro de Ciências Médicas, Universidade Federal da Paraíba, João Pessoa, 
Paraíba, Brasil. daniella.77.fcm@gmail.com.
(3)Médico, Doctor en Clínica Médica, Profesor Adjunto, Departamento de Promoção 
da Saúde, Centro de Ciências Médicas, Universidade Federal da Paraíba, João 
Pessoa, Paraíba, Brasil. lucianobgomes@gmail.com.
(4)Psicóloga clínica. Magíster en Psicología, Universidade de Pernambuco, João 
Pessoa, Paraíba, Brasil. danipeixoto89@gmail.com.
(5)Maestrando en Programa de Pós-graduação em Saúde Coletiva, Universidade 
Federal da Paraíba; João Pessoa, Paraíba, Brasil. tarcisio.ufpb@gmail.com.
(6)Estudiante de Medicina, Universidade Federal da Paraíba, João Pessoa, 
Paraíba, Brasil. hzozimo31@gmail.com.
(7)Estudiante de Medicina, Universidade Federal da Paraíba, João Pessoa, 
Paraíba, Brasil. mariafernandalyra@outlook.com.

This article presents an analysis of the production of care networks for persons 
with disabilities in the state of Paraíba, Brazil. We employed a qualitative 
methodology with a cartographic approach, involving the participation of four 
users-citizens-guides. Weekly virtual meetings were held throughout the second 
half of 2020, in which we were able to collect, systematize, and theorize on 
four issues: 1) guilt and (non) life expectancy on the part of persons with 
disabilities; 2) the place of disability in family dynamics; 3) the production 
of specific core relational dependency networks; and 4) the public vs. private 
care offerings for persons with disabilities. Based on these findings, we were 
able to lend visibility to and explicitly affirm the ways in which these 
user-citizens participate in the complex process of care building for persons 
with disabilities and their families.

Publisher: En este artículo analizamos la producción de redes de atención para 
personas con discapacidad, en el estado de Paraíba, Brasil. Se trata de un 
estudio cualitativo, con enfoque cartográfico, en el que participaron cuatro 
usuarias-ciudadanas-guías. Se realizaron reuniones virtuales semanales a lo 
largo del segundo semestre de 2020, en las que pudimos recolectar, sistematizar 
y producir consistencia teórica, a partir de cuatro analizadores: 1) 
culpabilidad y (no) esperanza de vida de la persona con discapacidad; 2) el 
lugar de la discapacidad en la dinámica familiar; 3) la producción de núcleos de 
dependencia relacional específicos; y 4) el público vs. ofertas privadas de 
atención para las personas con discapacidad. A partir de ellos, fue posible 
producir visibilidades y enunciabilidades sobre las formas en que estas 
usuarias-ciudadanas son parte del complejo proceso de construcción de cuidados 
para las personas con discapacidad y sus familias.

DOI: 10.18294/sc.2021.3334
PMID: 34105330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Int J Dermatol. 2022 Jan;61(1):54-61. doi: 10.1111/ijd.15675. Epub 2021 Jun
9.

Anti-aging effect of an oral disintegrating collagen film: a prospective, 
single-arm study.

Lee YI(1)(2), Lee SG(1), Kim E(1), Jung I(3), Suk J(3), Kim J(1)(2), Lee 
JH(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology & Cutaneous Biology Research Institute, Yonsei 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Scar Laser and Plastic Surgery Center, Yonsei Cancer Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Global Medical Research Center, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND: As the average life expectancy increases, skin aging and wrinkles 
due to photoaging have gained attention. Collagen is closely involved in the 
process of skin aging. Among the potential methods of drug delivery to the skin, 
oral disintegrating films show promise for their ability to bypass the loss of 
active components that is typical of drug absorption via oral administration. 
This study was conducted to investigate the effect of an oral disintegrating 
collagen film on skin aging.
METHODS: We performed a prospective, single-arm study in a cohort of 22 women to 
assess the anti-aging effect of a novel oral disintegrating film containing 
collagen applied daily over a 12-week period. We measured the clinical 
indicators of skin integrity and performed immunofluorescence and 
high-performance liquid chromatography analyses of an ex vivo oral mucosa model 
to compare the absorption rates of collagen films and conventional oral tablets 
via the mucosa.
RESULTS: We found that the oral disintegrating collagen film reduced skin 
wrinkle depth and number and significantly increased skin elasticity and 
density.
CONCLUSIONS: The novel mode of delivery of collagen via oral disintegrating 
films has a clinically potential anti-aging efficacy and is safe and convenient 
for daily use.

© 2021 the International Society of Dermatology.

DOI: 10.1111/ijd.15675
PMID: 34105764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Cancer Med. 2021 Jul;10(14):4905-4922. doi: 10.1002/cam4.4046. Epub 2021 Jun
9.

Global, regional and national incidence, mortality and disability-adjusted 
life-years of skin cancers and trend analysis from 1990 to 2019: An analysis of 
the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

Zhang W(1)(2), Zeng W(1), Jiang A(3), He Z(1), Shen X(1), Dong X(1), Feng J(4), 
Lu H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Affiliated Hospital of Guizhou Medical University, 
Guiyang, China.
(2)Department of Immunology, Basic Medical School, Guizhou Medical University, 
Guiyang, China.
(3)School of Management, Dalian Polytechnic University, Dalian, China.
(4)Department of Pathology, Affiliated Hospital of Guizhou Medical University, 
Guiyang, China.

BACKGROUND: Information about global and local epidemiology and trends of skin 
cancers is limited, which increases the difficulty of cutaneous cancer control.
METHODS: To estimate the global spatial patterns and temporal trends of skin 
cancer burden. Based on the GBD 2019, we collected and analyzed numbers and 
age-standardized rates (ASR) of skin cancer incidence, disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs) and mortality (ASIR, ASDR, and ASMR) in 204 countries from 1990 
through 2019 were estimated by age, sex, subtype (malignant skin melanoma [MSM], 
squamous-cell carcinoma [SCC], and basal-cell carcinoma [BCC]), 
Socio-demographic Index (SDI), region, and country. Temporal trends in ASR were 
also analyzed using estimated annual percentage change.
RESULTS: Globally, in 2019, there were 4.0 million BCC, 2.4 million SCC, and 0.3 
million MSM. There were approximately 62.8 thousand deaths and 1.7 million DALYs 
due to MSM, and 56.1 thousand deaths and 1.2 million DALYs were attributed to 
SCC, respectively. The men had higher ASR of skin cancer burden than women. The 
age-specific rates of global skin cancer burden were higher in the older adults, 
increasing trends observed from 55 years old. Geographically, the numbers and 
ASR of skin cancers varied greatly across countries, with the largest burden of 
ASIR in high SDI regions. However, an unexpected increase was observed in some 
regions from 1990 to 2019, such as East Asia, and Sub-Saharan Africa. Although 
there was a slight decrease of the ASMR and ASDR, the global ASIR of MSM 
dramatically increased, 1990-2019. Also, there was a remarkable increase in ASR 
of BCC and SCC burden.
CONCLUSIONS: Skin cancer remains a major global public health threat. Reducing 
morbidity and mortality strategies such as primary and secondary prevention 
should be reconsidered, especially in the most prevalent and unexpected 
increased regions, especially for those areas with the greatest proportions of 
their population over age 55.

© 2021 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.4046
PMCID: PMC8290243
PMID: 34105887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare to no conflicts of interest 
that pertain to this work.


599. JMIR Mhealth Uhealth. 2021 Jun 9;9(6):e20330. doi: 10.2196/20330.

mHealth Interventions for Treatment Adherence and Outcomes of Care for 
Cardiometabolic Disease Among Adults Living With HIV: Systematic Review.

Odukoya OO(1), Ohazurike C(2), Akanbi M(3), O'Dwyer LC(4), Isikekpei B(2), 
Kuteyi E(2), Ameh IO(5), Osadiaye O(2), Adebayo K(6), Usinoma A(2), Adewole 
A(2), Odunukwe N(7), Okuyemi K(8), Kengne AP(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Primary Care, College of Medicine, 
University of Lagos, Lagos, Nigeria.
(2)Department of Community Health, Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Lagos, 
Nigeria.
(3)Department of Preventive Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL, United States.
(4)Galter Health Sciences Library and Learning Center, Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, United States.
(5)Division of Nephrology, Zenith Medical and Kidney Center, Abuja, Nigeria.
(6)Department of Clinical Medicine, All Saints University School of Medicine, 
Roseau, Dominica.
(7)Non-Communicable Disease Research Group, Nigeria Institute of Medical 
Research, Lagos, Nigeria.
(8)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of Utah School Of 
Medicine, Salt Lake City, UT, United States.
(9)Non-Communicable Disease Research Unit, Medical Research Council, Cape Town, 
South Africa.

BACKGROUND: The success of antiretroviral therapy has led to an increase in life 
expectancy and an associated rise in the risk of cardiometabolic diseases (CMDs) 
among people living with HIV.
OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to conduct a systematic review to synthesize the existing 
literature on the patterns of use and effects of mobile health (mHealth) 
interventions for improving treatment adherence and outcomes of care for CMD 
among people living with HIV.
METHODS: A systematic search of multiple databases, including PubMed-MEDLINE, 
Embase, CINAHL, Scopus, Web of Science, African Journals online, 
ClinicalTrials.gov, and the World Health Organization Global Index Medicus of 
peer-reviewed articles, was conducted with no date or language restrictions. 
Unpublished reports on mHealth interventions for treatment adherence and 
outcomes of care for CMD among adults living with HIV were also included in this 
review. Studies were included if they had at least 1 component that used an 
mHealth intervention to address treatment adherence or 1 or more of the stated 
outcomes of care for CMD among people living with HIV.
RESULTS: Our search strategy yielded 1148 unique records. In total, 10 articles 
met the inclusion criteria and were included in this review. Of the 10 studies, 
only 4 had published results. The categories of mHealth interventions ranged 
from short messaging, telephone calls, and wearable devices to smartphone and 
desktop web-based mobile apps. Across the different categories of interventions, 
there were no clear patterns in terms of consistency in the use of a particular 
intervention, as most studies (9/10, 90%) assessed a combination of mHealth 
interventions. Short messaging and telephone calls were however the most common 
interventions. Half of the studies (5/10, 50%) reported on outcomes that were 
indirectly linked to CMD, and none of them provided reliable evidence for 
evaluating the effectiveness of mHealth interventions for treatment adherence 
and outcomes of care for CMD among people living with HIV.
CONCLUSIONS: Due to the limited number of studies and the heterogeneity of 
interventions and outcome measures in the studies, no definitive conclusions 
could be drawn on the patterns of use and effects of mHealth interventions for 
treatment adherence and outcomes of care for CMD among people living with HIV. 
We therefore recommend that future trials should focus on standardized outcomes 
for CMD. We also suggest that future studies should consider having a longer 
follow-up period in order to determine the long-term effects of mHealth 
interventions on CMD outcomes for people living with HIV.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: PROSPERO International Prospective Register of Systematic 
Reviews CRD42018086940; 
https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/display_record.php?ID=CRD42018086940.

©Oluwakemi Ololade Odukoya, Chidumga Ohazurike, Maxwell Akanbi, Linda C O'Dwyer, 
Brenda Isikekpei, Ewemade Kuteyi, Idaomeh O Ameh, Olanlesi Osadiaye, Khadijat 
Adebayo, Adewunmi Usinoma, Ajoke Adewole, Nkiruka Odunukwe, Kola Okuyemi, Andre 
Pascal Kengne. Originally published in JMIR mHealth and uHealth 
(https://mhealth.jmir.org), 09.06.2021.

DOI: 10.2196/20330
PMCID: PMC8409010
PMID: 34106075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


600. Rev Med Chil. 2021 Jan;149(1):147-149. doi: 10.4067/S0034-98872021000100147.

[Population size, fertility, migration and life expectancy: Worldwide and Latin 
American changes for 2100].

[Article in Spanish]

Troncoso-Pantoja C(1), Cigarroa I(2), Celis-Morales C(3).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Salud Pública, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Católica de 
la Santísima Concepción, Concepción, Chile.
(2)Escuela de Kinesiología, Facultad de Salud, Universidad Santo Tomás, Chile.
(3)British Heart Foundation, Glasgow Cardiovascular Research Centre, University 
of Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom.

DOI: 10.4067/S0034-98872021000100147
PMID: 34106148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Drugs R D. 2021 Sep;21(3):341-350. doi: 10.1007/s40268-021-00349-0. Epub
2021  Jun 9.

Vaccinations in Patients Receiving Systemic Drugs for Skin Disorders: What Can 
We Learn for SARS-Cov-2 Vaccination Strategies?

Speeckaert R(1), Lambert J(2), Puig L(3), Speeckaert M(4), Lapeere H(2), De 
Schepper S(2), van Geel N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Ghent University Hospital, Corneel Heymanslaan 10, 
9000, Ghent, Belgium. Reinhart.Speeckaert@uzgent.be.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Ghent University Hospital, Corneel Heymanslaan 10, 
9000, Ghent, Belgium.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Universitat 
Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Department of Nephrology, Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium.

Large-scale vaccination strategies are currently being deployed against severe 
acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-Cov-2). Whether systemic 
medication for skin diseases affects the efficacy of vaccination and whether 
temporary interruption or extension of the dosing interval is necessary is under 
debate. Most immunomodulating/immunosuppressive drugs only affect 
vaccine-induced immune responses to a limited or moderate extent, preserving 
sufficient immunity in most patients. Mycophenolate mofetil, Janus kinase 
inhibitors, and rituximab require a more cautious approach, and judicious timing 
of vaccination might be appropriate in patients receiving these treatments. It 
should be noted that, for most drugs except methotrexate, data on the length of 
the interruption period to restore vaccine-induced immune responses to normal 
levels are either very limited or absent. In these cases, only the drug 
half-life can be used as a practical guideline. In most patients, systemic 
medication can be continued through the vaccination process, although 
case-by-case decisions can be considered.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40268-021-00349-0
PMCID: PMC8188745
PMID: 34106430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Reinhart Speeckaert, Jo Lambert, Luis Puig, 
Marijn Speeckaert, Hilde Lapeere, Sofie De Schepper, and Nanja van Geel have no 
conflicts of interest that are directly relevant to the content of this article.


602. Int J Health Serv. 2021 Oct;51(4):545-558. doi: 10.1177/00207314211024895.
Epub  2021 Jun 9.

Punitive Social Policy and Vital Inequality.

Nosrati E(1), King LP(2).

Author information:
(1)Merton College, 6396University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(2)14707UMass Amherst, Amherst, MA, USA.

Geographical inequalities in life and death are among the world's most 
pronounced in the United States. However, the driving forces behind this 
macroscopic variation in population health outcomes remain surprisingly 
understudied, both empirically and theoretically. The present article steps into 
this breach by assessing a number of theoretically informed hypotheses 
surrounding the underlying causes of such spatial heterogeneity. Above and 
beyond a range of usual suspects, such as poverty, unemployment, and 
ethno-racial disparities, we find that a hitherto neglected explanans is prison 
incarceration. In particular, through the use of previously unavailable 
county-level panel data and a compound instrumentation technique suited to 
isolating exogenous treatment variation, high imprisonment rates are shown to 
substantially increase the population-wide risk of premature death. Our findings 
contribute to the political economy of population health by relating the rise of 
the carceral state to the amplification of geographically anchored unequal life 
chances.

DOI: 10.1177/00207314211024895
PMCID: PMC8435832
PMID: 34106778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
authors declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


603. PLoS One. 2021 Jun 9;16(6):e0252864. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0252864. 
eCollection 2021.

Is SF-12 a valid and reliable measurement of health-related quality of life 
among adults with Marfan syndrome? A confirmatory study.

Udugampolage N(1), Caruso R(2), Panetta M(1), Callus E(3)(4), Dellafiore F(2), 
Magon A(2), Marelli S(1), Pini A(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular-Genetic Center, IRCCS Policlinico San Donato, San Donato 
Milanese, Italy.
(2)Health Professions Research and Development Unit, IRCCS Policlinico San 
Donato, San Donato Milanese, Italy.
(3)Clinical Psychology Service, IRCCS Policlinico San Donato, Milan, Italy.
(4)Department of Biomedical Sciences for Health, Università degli Studi di 
Milano, Milan, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: The structural validity and reliability of the Short-Form Health 
Survey 12 (SF-12) has not yet been tested in adults with the Marfan syndrome 
(MFS). This gap could undermine an evidence-grounded practice and research, 
especially considering that the need to assess health-related quality of life in 
patients with MFS has increased due to the improved life expectancy of these 
patients and the need to identify their determinants of quality of life. For 
this reason, this study aimed to confirm the dimensionality (structural 
validity) of the SF-12, its concurrent validity, and its reliability (internal 
consistency).
METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional study in a convenience sample of 111 
Italian adults with MFS, collecting anamnestic and socio-demographic 
information, the SF-12, and short-form Health Survey 36 (SF-36). A confirmatory 
factor analysis was performed to verify whether the items of SF-12 related to 
physical restrictions, physical functioning, and bodily pain were retained by 
the physical summary component of the SF-12. The items referred to the role 
limitations due to emotional issues, social functioning, and mental health were 
retained by the mental summary component (MCS12). SF-36 was used to assess the 
concurrent validity of SF-12, hypothesizing positive correlations among the 
equivalent summary scores.
RESULTS: The two-factor structural solution resulted in fitting the sample 
statistics adequately. The internal consistency was adequate for the two 
factors. Furthermore, the physical and mental summary scores of the SF-36 were 
positively correlated with their equivalent summary scores derived from the 
SF-12.
CONCLUSIONS: This study confirmed the factor structure of the SF-12. Therefore, 
the use of SF-12 in clinical practice and research for assessing the 
health-related quality of life among adults with MFS is evidence-grounded. 
Future research is recommended to determine whether the SF-12 shows measurement 
