patients underwent concomitant MV surgery and aortic valve replacement (control 
group).
RESULTS: One death (0.8%) occurred in the study group, and 3 deaths (4.8%) 
occurred in the control group (P = 0.52). The rate of the most common 
postoperative complication was similar between the 2 groups. At 12 years, the 
cumulative incidence function of cardiac death, with non-cardiac death as a 
competing risk, was 4.7 ± 2.8% in the study group; no cardiac deaths were 
observed in the control group (P = 0.078). At 6 and 12 years, in the study 
group, the cumulative incidence function of aortic valve reintervention, with 
death as a competing risk, was 2.5 ± 1.85% and 19 ± 7.1%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The appropriate management of moderate aortic regurgitation at the 
time of MV surgery deserves a careful evaluation by balancing the reintervention 
rate with the age, the operative risk and the life expectancy of the patient. 
Our findings suggest that a patient-tailored approach is the key to achieving 
the best clinical outcome for each individual patient.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/ejcts/ezab181
PMID: 34059886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. J Comp Eff Res. 2021 Aug;10(11):893-897. doi: 10.2217/cer-2021-0086. Epub
2021  Jun 1.

Economic burden of lives lost due to COVID-19 in New York State.

Lui B(1), Zheng M(2), White RS(1), Hoyler M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Weill Cornell Medicine, 525 East 68th Street, 
Box 124, New York, NY 10065, USA.
(2)College of Human Ecology, Cornell University, Martha Van Rensselaer Hall, 
Ithaca, NY 14850, USA.

Aim: To examine the economic impact of lives lost due to the COVID-19 pandemic 
across New York State. Materials & methods: Death counts by age range and period 
life expectancy were extracted from the NYS Department of Health, NYC Department 
of Health and Mental Hygiene, and Social Security Administration website. Years 
of potential life lost and value of statistical life (VSL) were calculated. 
Results: The average years of potential life lost per person was 12.72 and 
15.13, and the VSL was US$119.62 and 90.45 billion, in NYS and NYC, 
respectively. VSL was greatest in Queens and Brooklyn, followed by the Bronx, 
Manhattan and Staten Island. Conclusion: New York City, specifically Queens and 
Brooklyn, bore the greatest economic burden of lives lost across the state.

DOI: 10.2217/cer-2021-0086
PMCID: PMC8171309
PMID: 34060343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Acta Otorhinolaryngol Ital. 2021 Apr;41(Suppl. 1):S124-S137. doi: 
10.14639/0392-100X-suppl.1-41-2021-13.

Cooperation between ENT surgeon and dentist in head and neck oncology.

Berrone M(1)(2), Lajolo C(3)(4), De Corso E(3), Settimi S(3), Rupe C(3), 
Crosetti E(1), Succo G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Head and Neck Oncology Service, Candiolo Cancer Institute - FPO, IRCCS, 
Candiolo, Italy.
(2)Department of Oncology, University of Turin, Turin, Italy.
(3)Head and Neck Department, "Fondazione Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli - 
IRCCS" Rome, Italy.
(4)School of Dentistry, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Rome, Italy.

Plain Language Summary: Head and neck cancer (HNC) patients require specialized 
care throughout the continuum of cancer diagnosis, treatment, and survival. 
Cooperation between ENT and dentists is crucial, since all of the different 
anatomic areas affected by cancer have distinctive characteristics and the best 
results in terms of life expectancy and patients’ quality of life can only be 
achieved through a multidisciplinary approach. The synergic cooperation of all 
health care workers in the early diagnosis of HNC allows a better prognosis for 
such patients. As soon as dentists diagnose a Potentially Malignant Disorder 
(PMD), patients should undergo complete ENT screening for detection of lesions 
in any portion of the upper aerodigestive tract. Before and after cancer 
diagnosis and before any oncologic treatment, it is critical that these patients 
undergo an accurate and complete dental and periodontal assessment to optimize 
treatment and minimize complications or side effects. Multidisciplinary 
ablative, reconstructive and prosthetic programing in Head & Neck oncologic 
surgery has become imperative to offer patients the best functional and esthetic 
outcome. An improvement in oral function and associated quality of life is 
strictly related to correct prosthetic rehabilitation. Finally, after surgery 
and/or radiotherapy (RT), the main objectives of dental treatment in these 
patients are the prevention and therapy of dental diseases and the side effects 
of oncological therapies involving the oral cavity.

Publisher: Cooperazione tra otorinolaringoiatra e odontostomatologo in oncologia 
cervico-cefalica.
RIASSUNTO: I pazienti affetti da tumori della testa e del collo (HNC) richiedono 
cure specialistiche lungo tutto l’iter diagnostico-terapeutico. La 
collaborazione tra otorinolaringoiatra e odontostomatologo risulta fondamentale, 
poiché le diverse sedi anatomiche coinvolte dalla patologia oncologica hanno 
caratteristiche peculiari, e i migliori risultati in termini di aspettativa e 
qualità di vita possono essere raggiunti solo attraverso un approccio 
multidisciplinare. La collaborazione sinergica di tutti gli operatori sanitari 
nella diagnosi precoce di tali tumori consente una prognosi migliore per questi 
pazienti; in quest’ottica, subito dopo la diagnosi di patologie 
odontostomatologiche potenzialmente maligne (PMD), i pazienti dovrebbero 
sottoporsi a uno screening ORL completo per l’individuazione di lesioni del 
tratto aero-digestivo superiore. È fondamentale che, dopo la diagnosi di 
carcinoma e prima di qualsiasi trattamento oncologico, questi pazienti ricevano 
una valutazione dentale e parodontale accurata e completa, per ottimizzare il 
trattamento e ridurre al minimo le complicanze o gli effetti collaterali. La 
pianificazione multidisciplinare ablativa, ricostruttiva e protesica nella 
chirurgia oncologica testa-collo è diventata indispensabile per offrire ai 
pazienti il miglior risultato funzionale ed estetico; un miglioramento della 
funzione orale e della relativa qualità di vita è infatti strettamente correlato 
a una corretta riabilitazione protesica. Infine, prima e dopo l’intervento 
chirurgico e/o la radioterapia, gli obiettivi principali del trattamento 
odontoiatrico in questi pazienti sono rappresentati dalla prevenzione e dal 
trattamento delle malattie dentali e degli effetti collaterali dei vari 
trattamenti oncologici a livello del cavo orale.

DOI: 10.14639/0392-100X-suppl.1-41-2021-13
PMCID: PMC8172104
PMID: 34060528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The Authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


471. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2021 Sep 13;76(10):1714-1725. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glab145.

The Autophagy Inducer Spermidine Protects Against Metabolic Dysfunction During 
Overnutrition.

Liao CY(1), Kummert OMP(1), Bair AM(1), Alavi N(1), Alavi J(1), Miller DM(1), 
Bagga I(1), Schempf AM(1), Hsu YM(1), Woods BD(1), Brown Mayfield SM(1), 
Mitchell AN(1), Tannady G(1), Talbot AR(1), Dueck AM(1), Barrera Ovando R(1), 
Parker HD(1), Wang J(1), Schoeneweis JK(1), Kennedy BK(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Buck Institute for Research on Aging, Novato, California, USA.
(2)Healthy Longevity Programme, Yong Loo Lin of Medicine, National University of 
Singapore, Singapore.

Autophagy, a process catabolizing intracellular components to maintain energy 
homeostasis, impacts aging and metabolism. Spermidine, a natural polyamine and 
autophagy activator, extends life span across a variety of species, including 
mice. In addition to protecting cardiac and liver tissue, spermidine also 
affects adipose tissue through unexplored mechanisms. Here, we examined 
spermidine in the links between autophagy and systemic metabolism. Consistently, 
daily injection of spermidine delivered even at late life is sufficient to cause 
a trend in life-span extension in wild-type mice. We further found that 
spermidine has minimal metabolic effects in young and old mice under normal 
nutrition. However, spermidine counteracts high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity 
by increasing lipolysis in visceral fat. Mechanistically, spermidine increases 
the hepatokine fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) expression in liver without 
reducing food intake. Spermidine also modulates FGF21 in adipose tissues, 
elevating FGF21 expression in subcutaneous fat, but reducing it in visceral fat. 
Despite this, FGF21 is not required for spermidine action, since Fgf21-/- mice 
were still protected from HFD. Furthermore, the enhanced lipolysis by spermidine 
was also independent of autophagy in adipose tissue, given that adipose-specific 
autophagy-deficient (Beclin-1flox/+Fabp4-cre) mice remained 
spermidine-responsive under HFD. Our results suggest that the metabolic effects 
of spermidine occur through systemic changes in metabolism, involving multiple 
mechanistic pathways.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glab145
PMCID: PMC8436989
PMID: 34060628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Am Fam Physician. 2021 Jun 1;103(11):695-696.

Lipid Lowering Is Beneficial for Secondary Prevention but Not Primary Prevention 
in Patients 75 Years and Older.

Ebell MH(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Georgia, Athens, GA, USA.

PMID: 34060787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Health Technol Assess. 2021 May;25(33):1-276. doi: 10.3310/hta25330.

High-sensitivity troponin assays for early rule-out of acute myocardial 
infarction in people with acute chest pain: a systematic review and economic 
evaluation.

Westwood M(1), Ramaekers B(2), Grimm S(2), Worthy G(1), Fayter D(1), Armstrong 
N(1), Buksnys T(1), Ross J(1), Joore M(2), Kleijnen J(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Kleijnen Systematic Reviews Ltd, York, UK.
(2)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology Assessment, 
Maastricht University, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(3)School for Public Health and Primary Care, Care and Public Health Research 
Institute, Maastricht University, Maastricht, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Early diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction is important, but 
only 20% of emergency admissions for chest pain will actually have an acute 
myocardial infarction. High-sensitivity cardiac troponin assays may allow rapid 
rule out of myocardial infarction and avoid unnecessary hospital admissions.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
high-sensitivity cardiac troponin assays for the management of adults presenting 
with acute chest pain, in particular for the early rule-out of acute myocardial 
infarction.
METHODS: Sixteen databases were searched up to September 2019. Review methods 
followed published guidelines. Studies were assessed for quality using 
appropriate risk-of-bias tools. The bivariate model was used to estimate summary 
sensitivity and specificity for meta-analyses involving four or more studies; 
otherwise, random-effects logistic regression was used. The health economic 
analysis considered the long-term costs and quality-adjusted life-years 
associated with different troponin testing methods. The de novo model consisted 
of a decision tree and a state-transition cohort model. A lifetime time horizon 
(of 60 years) was used.
RESULTS: Thirty-seven studies (123 publications) were included in the review. 
The high-sensitivity cardiac troponin test strategies evaluated are defined by 
the combination of four factors (i.e. assay, number and timing of tests, and 
threshold concentration), resulting in a large number of possible combinations. 
Clinical opinion indicated a minimum clinically acceptable sensitivity of 97%. 
When considering single test strategies, only those using a threshold at or near 
to the limit of detection for the assay, in a sample taken at presentation, met 
the minimum clinically acceptable sensitivity criterion. The majority of the 
multiple test strategies that met this criterion comprised an initial rule-out 
step, based on high-sensitivity cardiac troponin levels in a sample taken on 
presentation and a minimum symptom duration, and a second stage for patients not 
meeting the initial rule-out criteria, based on presentation levels of 
high-sensitivity cardiac troponin and absolute change after 1, 2 or 3 hours. Two 
large cluster randomised controlled trials found that implementation of an early 
rule-out pathway for myocardial infarction reduced length of stay and rate of 
hospital admission without increasing cardiac events. In the base-case analysis, 
standard troponin testing was both the most effective and the most costly. Other 
testing strategies with a sensitivity of 100% (subject to uncertainty) were 
almost equally effective, resulting in the same life-year and quality-adjusted 
life-year gain at up to four decimal places. Comparisons based on the next best 
alternative showed that for willingness-to-pay values below £8455 per 
quality-adjusted life-year, the Access High Sensitivity Troponin I (Beckman 
Coulter, Brea, CA, USA) [(symptoms > 3 hours AND < 4 ng/l at 0 hours) OR 
(< 5 ng/l AND Δ < 5 ng/l at 0 to 2 hours)] would be cost-effective. For 
thresholds between £8455 and £20,190 per quality-adjusted life-year, the 
Elecsys® Troponin-T high sensitive (Roche, Basel, Switzerland) (< 12 ng/l at 0 
hours AND Δ < 3 ng/l at 0 to 1 hours) would be cost-effective. For a threshold 
> £20,190 per quality-adjusted life-year, the Dimension Vista® High-Sensitivity 
Troponin I (Siemens Healthcare, Erlangen, Germany) (< 5 ng/l at 0 hours AND Δ 
< 2 ng/l at 0 to 1 hours) would be cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: High-sensitivity cardiac troponin testing may be cost-effective 
compared with standard troponin testing.
STUDY REGISTRATION: This study is registered as PROSPERO CRD42019154716.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research 
(NIHR) Evidence Synthesis programme and will be published in full in Health 
Technology Assessment; Vol. 25, No. 33. See the NIHR Journals Library website 
for further project information.

Plain Language Summary: Heart disease is a leading cause of death in the UK, 
with myocardial infarction (heart attack) accounting for approximately 4% of all 
deaths recorded in 2018. Many people attend hospital with chest pain and 
suspected myocardial infarction, and chest pain has been reported as the most 
common cause of hospital admissions in the UK, accounting for approximately 5% 
of all emergency admissions in 2017–18. It is important to diagnose people who 
are suspected of having a myocardial infarction as early as possible to ensure 
quick and effective treatment. However, only around 20% of emergency admissions 
for chest pain will actually have an myocardial infarction and there are many 
other possible causes of chest pain (e.g. gastro-oesophageal disorders, muscle 
pain, anxiety or stable ischaemic heart disease). Current practice for ruling 
out myocardial infarction includes blood tests taken when the patient is first 
seen in the emergency department and repeated after 3–6 hours or 10–12 hours, 
depending on the test used. Tests that can quickly tell which patients do not 
have myocardial infarction could therefore avoid unnecessary hospital admissions 
and anxiety for many people. We aimed to assess the clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of high-sensitivity troponin tests, used as single tests or 
repeated over a short time, for the early rule out of myocardial infarction in 
people who present to hospital with chest pain. We found that high-sensitivity 
troponin tests can safely rule out myocardial infarction within the 4-hour NHS 
emergency department target. Health economic analyses indicated that 
high-sensitivity tests may be considered value for money compared with standard 
troponin tests, which require repeat testing at 10–12 hours.

DOI: 10.3310/hta25330
PMCID: PMC8200931
PMID: 34061019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. JMIR Res Protoc. 2021 Jun 1;10(6):e27668. doi: 10.2196/27668.

STAR Duodecim eHealth Tool to Recognize Chronic Disease Risk Factors and Change 
Unhealthy Lifestyle Choices Among the Long-Term Unemployed: Protocol for a Mixed 
Methods Validation Study.

Kuhlberg H(1), Kujala S(2), Hörhammer I(3), Koskela T(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine and Health Technology, Tampere University, Tampere, 
Finland.
(2)Department of Computer Science, Aalto University, Helsinki, Finland.
(3)Department of Industrial Engineering and Management, Aalto University, 
Helsinki, Finland.
(4)Department of General Practice, Faculty of Medicine and Health Technology, 
Tampere University, Tampere, Finland.
(5)Center of General Practice, Tampere University Hospital, Tampere, Finland.

BACKGROUND: Lifestyle choices and socioeconomic status have a significant impact 
on the expected onset of diseases, age of death, and risk factors concerning 
long-term illnesses and morbidity. STAR is an online health examination tool, 
which gives users a report that includes an evaluation of their life expectancy 
and an estimated risk for developing common long-term illnesses based on 
questions about health, characteristics, lifestyle, and quality of life.
OBJECTIVE: The goals of this study are to (1) review the capacity of STAR to 
recognize morbidity risks in comparison to a traditional nurse-led health 
examination and patient-reported health challenges; (2) evaluate the user 
experience and usability of STAR; and (3) assess the potential impact of STAR on 
the health confidence and motivation of patients to make healthier lifestyle 
choices.
METHODS: This mixed methods validation study will consist of a quantitative part 
(questionnaires) and a qualitative part (phone interviews and open-ended 
questions from the questionnaires). The participants will include 100 long-term 
unemployed individuals attending a health check for the unemployed. The 
participants will be recruited from three Finnish public health centers in 
Espoo, Hämeenlinna, and Tampere. At the health centers, the participants will 
use STAR and attend a nurse's health check. Surveys with multiple-choice and 
open-ended questions will be collected from the participants, the nurse, and a 
study assistant. The questionnaires include questions about the participant's 
background and health challenges from the patient and nurse points of view, as 
well as questions about how well the health challenges matched the STAR report. 
The questionnaires also gather data about user experience, health confidence, 
and usability of STAR. A study assistant will fill out an observer's form 
containing questions about use time and possible problems encountered while 
using STAR. A sample of the unemployed participants will be interviewed by 
telephone subsequently. For the quantitative data, descriptive statistics and a 
reliability analysis will be performed, and mean sum scores will be computed for 
the study variables. Thematic analysis of the qualitative data will be 
performed.
RESULTS: This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of the Expert 
Responsibility Area of Tampere University Hospital in June 2020 (ETL Code 
R20067). Data collection will begin in June 2021 and will take approximately 3-6 
months.
CONCLUSIONS: Online health examinations can improve the effectiveness of primary 
prevention in health care by supporting efficient evidence-based morbidity risk 
estimation and motivating patients to change unhealthy behaviors. A multimethod 
approach is used to allow for assessment of the tool's usefulness from the 
points of view of both professionals and patients. This study will further 
provide a rich understanding of how the tool can be used as part of routine 
health checks, and how and why the tool may or may not motivate users for making 
healthier lifestyle choices.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): PRR1-10.2196/27668.

©Henna Kuhlberg, Sari Kujala, Iiris Hörhammer, Tuomas Koskela. Originally 
published in JMIR Research Protocols (https://www.researchprotocols.org), 
01.06.2021.

DOI: 10.2196/27668
PMCID: PMC8207252
PMID: 34061041

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


475. JAMA Netw Open. 2021 Jun 1;4(6):e2112062. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2021.12062.

Association Between Receipt of Cancer Screening and All-Cause Mortality in Older 
Adults.

Schoenborn NL(1)(2), Sheehan OC(1)(2), Roth DL(1)(2), Cidav T(1)(2), Huang 
J(2)(3), Chung SE(1)(2), Zhang T(1)(2), Lee S(4), Xue QL(1)(2), Boyd CM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.
(2)The Johns Hopkins Center on Aging and Health, Baltimore, Maryland.
(3)Bon Secours Mercy Health St Elizabeth Youngstown Hospital, Youngstown, Ohio.
(4)University of California, San Francisco School of Medicine.

IMPORTANCE: Guidelines recommend against routine breast and prostate cancer 
screenings in older adults with less than 10 years' life expectancy. One study 
using a claims-based prognostic index showed that receipt of cancer screening 
itself was associated with lower mortality, suggesting that the index may 
misclassify individuals when used to inform cancer screening, but this finding 
was attributed to residual confounding because the index did not account for 
functional status.
OBJECTIVE: To examine whether cancer screening remains significantly associated 
with all-cause mortality in older adults after accounting for both comorbidities 
and functional status.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This cohort study included individuals older 
than 65 years who were eligible for breast or prostate cancer screening and who 
participated in the 2004 Health and Retirement Study. Data were linked to 
Medicare claims from 2001 to 2015. Data analysis was conducted from January to 
November 2020.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: A Cox model was used to estimate the association 
between all-cause mortality over 10 years and receipt of screening mammogram or 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test, adjusting for variables in a prognostic 
index that included age, sex, comorbidities, and functional status. Potential 
confounders (ie, education, income, marital status, geographic region, 
cognition, self-reported health, self-care, and self-perceived mortality risk) 
of the association between cancer screening and mortality were also tested.
RESULTS: The breast cancer screening cohort included 3257 women (mean [SD] age, 
77.8 [7.5] years); the prostate cancer screening cohort included 2085 men (mean 
[SD] age, 76.1 [6.8] years). Receipt of screening mammogram was associated with 
lower hazard of all-cause mortality after accounting for all index variables 
(adjusted hazard ratio [aHR], 0.67; 95% CI, 0.60-0.74). A weaker, but still 
statistically significant, association was found for screening PSA (aHR 0.88; 
95% CI, 0.78-0.99). None of the potential confounders attenuated the association 
between screening and mortality except for cognition, which attenuated the aHR 
for mammogram from 0.67 (95% CI, 0.60-0.74) to 0.73 (95% CI, 0.64-0.82) and the 
aHR for PSA from 0.88 (95% CI, 0.78-0.99) to 0.92 (95% CI, 0.80-1.05), making 
PSA screening no longer statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this study, cognition attenuated the observed 
association between cancer screening and mortality among older adults. These 
findings suggest that existing mortality prediction algorithms may be missing 
important variables that are associated with receipt of cancer screening and 
long-term mortality. Relying solely on algorithms to determine cancer screening 
may misclassify individuals as having limited life expectancy and stop screening 
prematurely. Screening decisions need to be individualized and not solely 
dependent on life expectancy prediction.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2021.12062
PMCID: PMC8170538
PMID: 34061202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Lee 
reported receiving grants from the Veterans Affairs Health Services Research and 
Development and the National Institute on Aging during the conduct of the study. 
Dr Boyd reported receiving royalties from UpToDate and reviewing a chapter for 
Dynamed outside the submitted work. No other disclosures were reported.


476. World Neurosurg. 2021 Aug;152:e398-e407. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2021.05.103.
Epub  2021 May 29.

Computed Tomography Angiography versus Digital Subtraction Angiography as a 
Primary Diagnostic Tool in Nontraumatic Subarachnoid Hemorrhage: 
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Study.

Salih M(1), Moore JM(2), Ogilvy CS(2).

Author information:
(1)Neurosurgical Service, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center Brain Aneurysm 
Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. Electronic 
address: wshali@bidmc.harvard.edu.
(2)Neurosurgical Service, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center Brain Aneurysm 
Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND: Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) and computed tomographic 
angiography (CTA) are used to identify the cause of nontraumatic subarachnoid 
hemorrhage (SAH). There is no consensus on which to choose as the first 
diagnostic tool. We aimed to compare the cost-effectiveness of CTA versus DSA as 
a primary tool for identifying the cause of nontraumatic SAH.
METHODS: A decision analysis model was built to simulate patients undergoing DSA 
or CTA as a primary diagnostic tool for the cause of nontraumatic SAH. The input 
data for the study were extracted from literature. Probabilistic and 
deterministic sensitivity analyses were performed to evaluate the robustness of 
the model.
RESULTS: In the base case calculation, it cost $1261.82 less and yielded 0.0001 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) when DSA was used as a primary diagnostic 
imaging tool for nontraumatic SAH. Choosing DSA as a primary tool was 
cost-effective in more than 65% of iterations in probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis. Deterministic sensitivity analyses show when the probability of using 
endovascular treatment is >47.2%, choosing DSA is more cost-effective; 
otherwise, CTA is more optimal. CTA is more cost-effective when the cost for DSA 
>2.6 × CTA + $600.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on current literature and our model DSA as a primary 
diagnostic tool for the cause of nontraumatic SAH is more cost-effective. 
However, in clinical practice physicians can choose either DSA or CTA according 
to the scale of endovascular procedures used in their center, as well as the 
cost correlation between CTA and DSA, which varies among institutions.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2021.05.103
PMID: 34062303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Cancer. 2021 Sep 15;127(18):3372-3380. doi: 10.1002/cncr.33653. Epub 2021
Jun 1.

A cost-utility analysis comparing CT surveillance, PET-CT surveillance, and 
planned postradiation neck dissection for advanced nodal HPV-positive 
oropharyngeal cancer.

Fu TS(1), Scheffler P(1), Forner D(1), Noel CW(1), Huang SH(1)(2), Gilbert 
RW(1), Goldstein DP(1), O'Sullivan B(2), Mehanna HM(3), Waldron J(1)(2), de 
Almeida JR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre-University 
Health Network, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Institute of Head and Neck Studies and Education, University of Birmingham, 
Birmingham, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: The cost utility of image-guided surveillance using computed 
tomography (CT) and positron emission tomography (PET)-CT to planned 
postradiation neck dissection (PRND) was compared for the management of advanced 
nodal human papillomavirus-positive oropharyngeal cancer following 
chemoradiation.
METHODS: A universal payer perspective was adopted. A Markov model was designed 
to simulate four treatment approaches with 3-month cycles over a lifetime 
horizon: 1) CT surveillance, 2) standard PET-CT surveillance, 3) a novel PET-CT 
approach with repeat PET at 6 months postchemoradiation for equivocal 
responders, and 4) PRND. Parameters including probabilities of CT nodal 
progression/resolution, PET avidity, recurrence, and survival were obtained from 
the literature. Costs were reported in 2019 Canadian dollars and utilities were 
expressed in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Deterministic and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed to evaluate model uncertainty.
RESULTS: PET-CT surveillance dominated CT surveillance and PRND in the base case 
scenario, and the novel PET-CT approach was the most cost-effective strategy 
across a wide range of variables tested in one-way sensitivity analysis. On 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis, novel PET-CT surveillance was the most 
cost-effective strategy in 78.1% of model iterations at a willingness-to-pay of 
$50,000/QALYs. Novel PET-CT surveillance resulted in a 49% lower rate of neck 
dissection compared with traditional PET-CT, and yielded an incremental benefit 
of 0.14 QALYs with average cost savings of $1309.
CONCLUSIONS: Image-guided surveillance including PET-CT and CT are more cost 
effective than PRND. The novel PET-CT approach with repeat PET for equivocal 
responders was the dominant strategy and yielded both higher benefit and lower 
costs compared with standard PET-CT surveillance.

© 2021 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.33653
PMID: 34062618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Cancer. 2021 Sep 15;127(18):3457-3465. doi: 10.1002/cncr.33662. Epub 2021
Jun 1.

The value of new drugs for advanced prostate cancer.

Howard DH(1)(2), Quek RGW(3), Fox KM(4), Arondekar B(5), Filson CP(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Emory University, Atlanta, 
Georgia.
(2)Winship Cancer Institute, Emory Healthcare, Atlanta, Georgia.
(3)Pfizer, Inc, San Francisco, California.
(4)Strategic Healthcare Solutions, LLC, Aiken, South Carolina.
(5)Pfizer, Inc, Collegeville, Pennsylvania.
(6)Department of Urology, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia.

BACKGROUND: The US Food and Drug Administration has recently approved a number 
of new cancer drugs. The clinical trials that serve as the basis for new cancer 
drug approvals may not reflect how the drugs will perform in routine practice 
and do not measure the impact of the drugs on spending. The authors sought to 
evaluate the real-world effectiveness and value of drugs recently approved for 
advanced prostate cancer.
METHODS: Using Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results-Medicare data, the 
authors identified fee-for-service Medicare beneficiaries aged 65 years or older 
who began treatment with a drug approved for metastatic castration-resistant 
prostate cancer in 2007-2009, when only 1 drug was approved for metastatic 
castration-resistant prostate cancer, and in 2014-2016, when 5 additional drugs 
were approved. They calculated life expectancy and lifetime medical costs (ie, 
Medicare reimbursements) for each group.
RESULTS: Between 2007-2009 and 2014-2016, life expectancy increased by 12.6 
months. Lifetime medical costs increased by $87,000. The incremental cost per 
life-year gained was $83,000.
CONCLUSION: The release of 5 new drugs coincided with increases in survival 
rates and spending. This study's estimates indicate that the new drugs 
collectively were cost-effective.

© 2021 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.33662
PMID: 34062620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 May 5;22(9):4885. doi: 10.3390/ijms22094885.

AtWAKL10, a Cell Wall Associated Receptor-Like Kinase, Negatively Regulates Leaf 
Senescence in Arabidopsis thaliana.

Li L(1), Li K(2), Ali A(2), Guo Y(2).

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of Plant Development and Environmental Adaptation Biology, 
Ministry of Education, School of Life Sciences, Shandong University, Qingdao 
266237, China.
(2)Tobacco Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Qingdao 
266101, China.

Receptor-like kinases (RLKs) constitute a large group of cell surface receptors 
that play crucial roles in multiple biological processes. However, the function 
of most RLKs in plants has not been extensively explored, and much less for the 
class of cell wall associated kinases (WAKs) and WAK-like kinases (WAKLs). In 
this study, analyses of developmental expression patterns uncovered a putative 
role of AtWAKL10 in modulating leaf senescence, which was further investigated 
at physiological and molecular levels. The expression level of AtWAKL10 
increased with the developmental progression and was rapidly upregulated in 
senescing leaf tissues. The promoter of AtWAKL10 contains various defense and 
hormone responsive elements, and its expression could be significantly induced 
by exogenous ABA, JA and SA. Moreover, the loss-of-function atwakl10 mutant 
showed earlier senescence along the course of natural development and 
accelerated leaf senescence under darkness and hormonal stresses, while plants 
overexpressing AtWAKL10 showed an opposite trend. Additionally, some defense and 
senescence related WRKY transcription factors could bind to the promoter of 
AtWAKL10. In addition, deletion and overexpression of AtWAKL10 caused several 
specific transcriptional alterations, including genes involved in cell 
extension, cell wall modification, defense response and senescence related 
WRKYs, which may be implicated in regulatory mechanisms adopted by AtWAKL10 in 
controlling leaf senescence. Taken together, these results revealed that 
AtWAKL10 negatively regulated leaf senescence.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22094885
PMCID: PMC8124439
PMID: 34063046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


480. Nutrients. 2021 May 2;13(5):1538. doi: 10.3390/nu13051538.

Maintenance of Skeletal Muscle to Counteract Sarcopenia in Patients with 
Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease and Especially Those Undergoing Hemodialysis.

Mori K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Osaka City University Graduate School of Medicine 
1-4-3, Asahi-Machi, Abeno-ku, Osaka 545-8585, Japan.

Life extension in modern society has introduced new concepts regarding such 
disorders as frailty and sarcopenia, which has been recognized in various 
studies. At the same time, cutting-edge technology methods, e.g., renal 
replacement therapy for conditions such as hemodialysis (HD), have made it 
possible to protect patients from advanced lethal chronic kidney disease (CKD). 
Loss of muscle and fat mass, termed protein energy wasting (PEW), has been 
recognized as prognostic factor and, along with the increasing rate of HD 
introduction in elderly individuals in Japan, appropriate countermeasures are 
necessary. Although their origins differ, frailty, sarcopenia, and PEW share 
common components, among which skeletal muscle plays a central role in their 
etiologies. The nearest concept may be sarcopenia, for which diagnosis 
techniques have recently been reported. The focus of this review is on 
maintenance of skeletal muscle against aging and CKD/HD, based on muscle 
physiology and pathology. Clinically relevant and topical factors related to 
muscle wasting including sarcopenia, such as vitamin D, myostatin, insulin 
(related to diabetes), insulin-like growth factor I, mitochondria, and physical 
inactivity, are discussed. Findings presented thus far indicate that in addition 
to modulation of the aforementioned factors, exercise combined with nutritional 
supplementation may be a useful approach to overcome muscle wasting and 
sarcopenia in elderly patients undergoing HD treatments.

DOI: 10.3390/nu13051538
PMCID: PMC8147474
PMID: 34063269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author has no conflict of interest to 
declare.481. Molecules. 2021 May 3;26(9):2674. doi: 10.3390/molecules26092674.

Quantitative Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomics for Biomarker Development in 
Ovarian Cancer.

Ryu J(1), Thomas SN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Minnesota 
School of Medicine, 420 Delaware St SE, MMC 609, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA.

Ovarian cancer is the most lethal gynecologic malignancy among women. 
Approximately 70-80% of patients with advanced ovarian cancer experience relapse 
within five years and develop platinum-resistance. The short life expectancy of 
patients with platinum-resistant or platinum-refractory disease underscores the 
need to develop new and more effective treatment strategies. Early detection is 
a critical step in mitigating the risk of disease progression from early to an 
advanced stage disease, and protein biomarkers have an integral role in this 
process. The best biological diagnostic tool for ovarian cancer will likely be a 
combination of biomarkers. Targeted proteomics methods, including mass 
spectrometry-based approaches, have emerged as robust methods that can address 
the chasm between initial biomarker discovery and the successful verification 
and validation of these biomarkers enabling their clinical translation due to 
the robust sensitivity, specificity, and reproducibility of these versatile 
methods. In this review, we provide background information on the fundamental 
principles of biomarkers and the need for improved treatment strategies in 
ovarian cancer. We also provide insight into the ways in which mass 
spectrometry-based targeted proteomics approaches can provide greatly needed 
solutions to many of the challenges related to ovarian cancer biomarker 
development.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules26092674
PMCID: PMC8125593
PMID: 34063568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


482. Biomedicines. 2021 May 21;9(6):584. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines9060584.

Natural Photosensitizers in Antimicrobial Photodynamic Therapy.

Polat E(1), Kang K(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Natural Product Informatics Research Center, Korea Institute of Science and 
Technology, Gangneung 25451, Gangwon-do, Korea.
(2)Division of Bio-Medical Science Technology, KIST School, University of 
Science and Technology (UST), Gangneung 25451, Gangwon-do, Korea.

Health problems and reduced treatment effectiveness due to antimicrobial 
resistance have become important global problems and are important factors that 
negatively affect life expectancy. Antimicrobial photodynamic therapy (APDT) is 
constantly evolving and can minimize this antimicrobial resistance problem. 
Reactive oxygen species produced when nontoxic photosensitizers are exposed to 
light are the main functional components of APDT responsible for microbial 
destruction; therefore, APDT has a broad spectrum of target pathogens, such as 
bacteria, fungi, and viruses. Various photosensitizers, including natural 
extracts, compounds, and their synthetic derivatives, are being investigated. 
The main limitations, such as weak antimicrobial activity against Gram-negative 
bacteria, solubility, specificity, and cost, encourage the exploration of new 
photosensitizer candidates. Many additional methods, such as cell surface 
engineering, cotreatment with membrane-damaging agents, nanotechnology, 
computational simulation, and sonodynamic therapy, are also being investigated 
to develop novel APDT methods with improved properties. In this review, we 
summarize APDT research, focusing on natural photosensitizers used in in vitro 
and in vivo experimental models. In addition, we describe the limitations 
observed for natural photosensitizers and the methods developed to counter those 
limitations with emerging technologies.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines9060584
PMCID: PMC8224061
PMID: 34063973

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest to 
declare.


483. Microorganisms. 2021 May 4;9(5):989. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms9050989.

New Antifungal Microbial Pigment Applied to Improve Safety and Quality of 
Processed Meat-Products.

Salama HA(1)(2), Badr AN(3), Elkhadragy MF(4), Hussein AMS(2), Shaban IA(5), 
Yehia HM(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Food Science and Nutrition Department, College of Food Science and 
Agriculture, King Saud University, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Food Technology, National Research Center, Dokki, Cairo 12622, 
Egypt.
(3)Department of Food Toxicology and Contaminants, National Research Center, 
Dokki, Cairo 12622, Egypt.
(4)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Princess Nourah Bint Abdulrahman 
University, Riyadh 11564, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Department of Chemistry of Natural and Microbial Product, National Research 
Center, Dokki, Cairo 12622, Egypt.
(6)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Faculty of Home Economics, Helwan 
University, Cairo 11221, Egypt.

Minced meat is involved within numerous products, where their color attributes 
are affected by consumer preferences. This study was aimed to ameliorate 
processed meat color, using a microbial red pigment. Antibacterial, antifungal, 
citrinin-free, and toxicity of pigment were determined. Meatballs and burgers 
were manufactured using pigment at 3 mg/g of meat. Texture, color, shelf life 
extension, and organoleptic properties were estimated for treated meats. Results 
were expressed by a real antimicrobial for pigment, even via several extracting 
systems. The MIC and MFC of pigment were 320 µg/g and 2.75 mg/g media, 
respectively. Bioactive components of pigment were detected using the GC-MS and 
the FTIR apparatus. The bioactive carbohydrates include oligo and 
polysaccharides were manifested with real curves. Secretion of ochratoxin A and 
aflatoxins in fungal media receives pigment was decreased by up to 54% and 45%, 
respectively. The presence of bioactive carbohydrates may trap mycotoxin out of 
the recovered amounts. The manufactured products were enhanced for their color 
and taste with fine texture changes. The shelf life of colored-frying meat was 
recorded by an extension compared to the control. In conclusion, the results 
were recommended microbial red-pigment implementation in meats manufacturing for 
ameliorating recorded of color, as antimycotoxigenic, and shelf life extension.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms9050989
PMCID: PMC8147858
PMID: 34064305

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


484. Cancers (Basel). 2021 May 11;13(10):2287. doi: 10.3390/cancers13102287.

AKT in Bone Metastasis of Solid Tumors: A Comprehensive Review.

Hinz N(1), Jücker M(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Experimental Medicine, Institute of Biochemistry and Signal 
Transduction, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, 20246 Hamburg, 
Germany.

Solid tumors, such as breast cancer and prostate cancer, often form bone 
metastases in the course of the disease. Patients with bone metastases 
frequently develop complications, such as pathological fractures or 
hypercalcemia and exhibit a reduced life expectancy. Thus, it is of vital 
importance to improve the treatment of bone metastases. A possible approach is 
to target signaling pathways, such as the PI3K/AKT pathway, which is frequently 
dysregulated in solid tumors. Therefore, we sought to review the role of the 
serine/threonine kinase AKT in bone metastasis. In general, activation of AKT 
signaling was shown to be associated with the formation of bone metastases from 
solid tumors. More precisely, AKT gets activated in tumor cells by a plethora of 
bone-derived growth factors and cytokines. Subsequently, AKT promotes the 
bone-metastatic capacities of tumor cells through distinct signaling pathways 
and secretion of bone cell-stimulating factors. Within the crosstalk between 
tumor and bone cells, also known as the vicious cycle, the stimulation of 
osteoblasts and osteoclasts also causes activation of AKT in these cells. As a 
consequence, bone metastasis is reduced after experimental inhibition of AKT. In 
summary, AKT signaling could be a promising therapeutical approach for patients 
with bone metastases of solid tumors.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers13102287
PMCID: PMC8151478
PMID: 34064589

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


485. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 May 20;18(10):5469. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18105469.

Radon in Schools: A Review of Radon Testing Efforts in Canadian Schools.

Shergill S(1)(2)(3), Forsman-Phillips L(1), Nicol AM(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)CAREX Canada, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, BC V5A1S6, Canada.
(2)Faculty of Health Sciences, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, BC V5A1S6, 
Canada.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, QC H3A0G4, Canada.
(4)National Collaborating Centre for Environmental Health (NCCEH), Vancouver, BC 
V5Z4R4, Canada.

Radon, a known carcinogen, becomes a health risk when it accumulates inside 
buildings. Exposure is of particular concern for children, as their longer life 
expectancy increases their lifetime risk of developing cancer. In 2016, 5.5 
million students were enrolled in Canadian elementary and secondary schools. 
With no national policy on radon testing in schools, children may be at risk 
from radon exposure while attending school and school-based programs. This study 
explored radon testing efforts in publicly funded Canadian schools and 
summarizes where testing programs have occurred. Radon testing in schools was 
identified through a systematic qualitative enquiry, surveying members from 
different levels of government (health and education) and other stakeholders 
(school boards, research experts, among others). Overall, this research found 
that approaches to radon testing varied considerably by province and region. 
Responsibility for radon testing in schools was often deferred between 
government, school boards, building managers and construction parties. 
Transparency around radon testing, including which schools had been tested and 
whether radon levels had been mitigated, also emerged as an issue. Radon testing 
of schools across Canada, including mitigation and clear communication 
strategies, needs to improve to ensure a healthy indoor environment for staff 
and students.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18105469
PMCID: PMC8160764
PMID: 34065347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


486. Insects. 2021 May 12;12(5):439. doi: 10.3390/insects12050439.

Genetic Relationship of Fall Armyworm (Spodoptera frugiperda) Populations That 
Invaded Africa and Asia.

Acharya R(1), Akintola AA(1)(2), Malekera MJ(1)(3), Kamulegeya P(4), Nyakunga 
KB(5), Mutimbu MK(6), Shrestha YK(7), Hemayet JSM(8), Hoat TX(9), Dao HT(9), 
Park JH(10), Kim I(11), Nam M(12), Lee SJ(13), Kim SM(13), Hwang HS(1), Lee 
KY(1)(14).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Biosciences, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, 
Kyungpook National University, Daegu 41566, Korea.
(2)Department of Zoology, Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Ilorin, Ilorin 
240212, Nigeria.
(3)Department of Plants Protection, Ministry of Agriculture, Kinshasa 8722, 
Democratic Republic of the Congo.
(4)Ministry of Agriculture Animal Industry and Fisheries, Entebbe P.O. Box 102, 
Uganda.
(5)National Biological Control, Kibaha 30031, Tanzania.
(6)Department of Applied Sciences, Mutare Polytechnic College, Mutare P.O. Box 
640, Zimbabwe.
(7)Center for Industrial Entomology, Hariharbhawan, Lalitpur 44700, Nepal.
(8)Department of Entomology, Patuakhali Science and Technology University, 
Dumki, Patuakhali 8602, Bangladesh.
(9)Plant Protection Research Institute, Ha Noi 04, Vietnam.
(10)Jejudo Agricultural Research and Extension Services, Jejudo 63556, Korea.
(11)College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Chonnam National University, 
Gwangju 61186, Korea.
(12)Xenotype, Daejeon 34912, Korea.
(13)Plant Quarantine Technology Center, Animal and Plant Quarantine Agency, 
Gimcheon 39660, Korea.
(14)Institute of Plant Medicine, Kyungpook National University, Daegu 41566, 
Korea.

The fall armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda, is an important agricultural pest 
native to tropical and subtropical regions of the Western Hemisphere, and has 
invaded Africa and further spread into most countries of Asia within two years. 
Here, we analyzed the genetic variation of invaded populations by comparing the 
nucleotide sequences of two genes: the nuclear Z-chromosome linked gene triose 
phosphate isomerase (Tpi) and the mitochondrial gene cytochrome oxidase subunit 
I (COI) of 27 specimens collected in Africa (DR Congo, Tanzania, Uganda, and 
Zimbabwe) and Asia (Bangladesh, Korea, Nepal, and Vietnam). The results revealed 
that 25 specimens were from a heterogeneous hybrid (Tpi-corn strain and COI-rice 
strain; Tpi-C/COI-R) of the corn strain male and rice strain female, but two 
specimens were from a homogenous corn strain (Tpi-corn strain and COI-corn 
strain; Tpi-C/COI-C). The further analysis of the fourth exon and the fourth 
intron sequences of the Tpi gene identified at least four subgroups of the corn 
strain. These four genetic subgroups were identified in Africa and Asia, 
suggesting no significant genetic change due to the rapid migration within two 
years. Our study provides essential information for understanding the genetic 
diversity of fall armyworm in new habitats.

DOI: 10.3390/insects12050439
PMCID: PMC8151712
PMID: 34066149

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


487. Materials (Basel). 2021 May 6;14(9):2414. doi: 10.3390/ma14092414.

The Effect of Tropical Environment on Fatigue Failure in Royal Malaysian 
Airforce (RMAF) Aircraft Structure and Operational Readiness.

Venugopal A(1)(2), Mohammad R(2), Koslan MFS(1), Sayd Bakar SR(3), Ali A(4).

Author information:
(1)RMAF Centre of Aerospace Engineering Services Establishment, Subang Airbase, 
Shah Alam 40000, Malaysia.
(2)Razak Faculty of Technology and Informatics, Universiti Technology Malaysia, 
Jalan Sultan Yahya Petra, Kuala Lumpur 54100, Malaysia.
(3)Science & Technology Research Institute for Defence (STRIDE) Kajang, Selangor 
43000, Malaysia.
(4)CAIDMARK Sdn Bhd, Damansara Utama Petaling Jaya, Selangor 47400, Malaysia.

The environmental condition in which the Royal Malaysian Airforce is currently 
operating its aircraft is prone to corrosion. This is due to the high relative 
humidity and temperature. With most of its aircraft being in the legacy aircraft 
era, the aircraft's main construction consists of the aluminium 2024 material. 
However, this material is prone to corrosion, thus reducing fatigue life and 
leading to fatigue failure. Using the concept of either Safe Life or Damage 
Tolerance as its fatigue design philosophy, the RMAF adopts the Aircraft 
Structure Integrity Program (ASIP) to monitor its structural integrity. With the 
current problem of not having the structural limitation on corrosion-damaged 
structure, the RMAF has embarked on its fatigue testing method. Finite Element 
(FE) studies and flight tests were conducted, and the outcome is summarized. The 
conclusion is that the longeron tested on the aircraft can withstand the 
operational load, and its yield strength is below the ultimate yield strength of 
the material. These research outcomes will also enhance the ASIP for other 
aircraft platforms in the RMAF fleet for its structure life assessment or 
service life extension program.

DOI: 10.3390/ma14092414
PMCID: PMC8124967
PMID: 34066461

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


488. Methods Protoc. 2021 May 17;4(2):35. doi: 10.3390/mps4020035.

Prospective Outcomes of Injury Study 10 Years on (POIS-10): An Observational 
Cohort Study.

Derrett S(1), Wyeth EH(2), Richardson A(1), Davie G(1), Samaranayaka A(3), 
Lilley R(1), Harcombe H(1).

Author information:
(1)Injury Prevention Research Unit, Department of Preventive and Social 
Medicine, Dunedin School of Medicine, University of Otago, P.O. Box 56, Dunedin 
9054, New Zealand.
(2)Ngāi Tahu Māori Health Research Unit, Department of Preventive and Social 
Medicine, Dunedin School of Medicine, University of Otago, P.O. Box 56, Dunedin 
9054, New Zealand.
(3)Biostatistics Centre, Division of Health Sciences, University of Otago, P.O. 
Box 56, Dunedin 9054, New Zealand.

Injury is a leading cause of disability and is costly. This prospective cohort 
study extension aims to improve disability, health, and wellbeing outcomes for 
injured New Zealanders, including for Māori. We will identify predictors and 
modifiable risk factors of long-term outcomes (positive and negative), and 
develop an Injury Early Care Tool (INJECT) to inform the implementation of 
effective interventions to improve outcomes. In the Prospective Outcomes of 
Injury Study (POIS), 2856 people participated following an injury (occurring 
between 2007 and 2009) registered with New Zealand's no-fault accident 
compensation scheme (ACC). POIS-10 will invite 2121 people (including 358 Māori) 
who completed a 24-month POIS interview and agreed to follow-up, anticipating 
75% participation (n = 1591). Interviews will collect sociodemographic 
characteristics, life events, comorbidities, and new injuries since 
participants' 24-month interview, as well as key disability, health, and 
wellbeing outcomes 12 years post-injury. Injury-related data will be collected 
from ACC and hospitalisation records 12 years post-injury. Regression models for 
the main outcomes will examine the direct effects of predictor variables after 
adjustment for a wide range of confounders. POIS-10 is enhanced by our 
partnership with ACC, and expert advisors and will benefit injured people, 
including Māori, through increased understanding of mechanisms and interventions 
to improve long-term post-injury outcomes.

DOI: 10.3390/mps4020035
PMCID: PMC8163161
PMID: 34067618

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


