prevention.
CONCLUSION: Optimal combination strategies generated a larger proportion of 
health benefits attributable to HIV prevention in five of six cities, 
underlining the substantial benefits of antiretroviral therapy engagement for 
the prevention of HIV transmission through viral suppression. Understanding to 
whom benefits accrue may be important in assessing the equity and impact of HIV 
investments.

Copyright © 2021 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000002993
PMCID: PMC8490299
PMID: 34148987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Pancreas. 2021 Jul 1;50(6):807-814. doi: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000001835.

Threshold Analysis of the Cost-effectiveness of Endoscopic Ultrasound in 
Patients at High Risk for Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma.

Kumar S(1), Saumoy M(1), Oh A(2), Schneider Y(3), Brand RE(4), Chak A(5), 
Ginsberg GG(1), Kochman ML(1), Canto MI(6), Goggins MG(6), Hur C(2), Kastrinos 
F(2), Katona BW(1), Rustgi AK(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.
(2)Division of Digestive and Liver Diseases, Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer 
Center, Columbia University, New York, NY.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology, St Luke's University Health Network, Allentown, 
PA.
(4)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, 
Pittsburgh, PA.
(5)Division of Gastroenterology, University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center, 
Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH.
(6)Division of Gastroenterology, The Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD.

OBJECTIVES: Data from the International Cancer of the Pancreas Screening 
Consortium studies have demonstrated that screening for pancreatic ductal 
adenocarcinoma can be effective and that surveillance improves survival in 
high-risk individuals. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and cross-sectional imaging 
are both used, although there is some suggestion that EUS is superior. 
Demonstration of the cost-effectiveness of screening is important to implement 
screening in high-risk groups.
METHODS: Results from centers with EUS-predominant screening were pooled to 
evaluate efficacy of index EUS in screening. A decision analysis model simulated 
the outcome of high-risk patients who undergo screening and evaluated the 
parameters that would make screening cost-effective at a US $100,000 per 
quality-adjusted life-year willingness to pay.
RESULTS: One-time index EUS has a sensitivity of 71.25% and specificity of 
99.82% to detection to detect high-risk lesions. Screening with index EUS was 
cost-effective, particularly at lifetime pancreatic cancer probabilities of 
greater than 10.8%, or at lower probabilities if life expectancy after resection 
of a lesion that was at least 16 years, and if missed, lesion rates on index EUS 
are 5% or less.
CONCLUSIONS: Pancreatic cancer screening can be cost-effective through index 
EUS, particularly for those individuals at high-lifetime risk of cancer.

Copyright © 2021 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000001835
PMCID: PMC8577312
PMID: 34149034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: S.K. received travel support from the Boston 
Scientific Corporation and Olympus. B.W.K, is a consultant of Exact Sciences and 
received travel support from Janssen. M.L.K. is a consultant of Boston 
Scientific, Olympus, and Pentax. Equity MAB: Dark Canyon Laboratories, VIRGO. 
The other authors declare no conflict of interest.


734. J Blood Med. 2021 Jun 11;12:435-447. doi: 10.2147/JBM.S232650. eCollection
2021.

Hematopoietic Stem Cell Therapy for Wiskott-Aldrich Syndrome: Improved Outcome 
and Quality of Life.

Mallhi KK(#)(1)(2)(3), Petrovic A(#)(1)(2)(4), Ochs HD(#)(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA, USA.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, University of Washington School of Medicine, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(3)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Seattle Children's Hospital, Seattle, 
WA, USA.
(4)Division of Immunology and Division of Hematology and Oncology, Seattle 
Children's Hospital, Seattle, WA, USA.
(5)Seattle Children's Research Institute, Seattle, WA, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is an X-linked disorder caused by mutations 
in the WAS gene resulting in congenital thrombocytopenia, eczema, recurrent 
infections and an increased incidence of autoimmune diseases and malignancies. 
Without curative therapies, affected patients have diminished life expectancy 
and reduced quality of life. Since WAS protein (WASP) is constitutively 
expressed only in hematopoietic stem cell-derived lineages, hematopoietic stem 
cell transplantation (HSCT) and gene therapy (GT) are well suited to correct the 
hematologic and immunologic defects. Advances in high-resolution HLA typing, new 
techniques to prevent GvHD allowing the use of haploidentical donors, and the 
introduction of reduced intensity conditioning regimens with myeloablative 
features have increased overall survival (OS) to over 90%. The development of GT 
for WAS has provided basic knowledge into vector selection and random 
integration of various viral vectors into the genome, with the possibility of 
inducing leukemogenesis. After trials and errors, inactivating lentiviral 
vectors carrying the WAS gene were successfully evaluated in clinical trials, 
demonstrating cure of the disease except for insufficient resolution of the 
platelet defect. Thus, 50 years of clinical evaluation, genetic exploration and 
extensive clinical trials, a lethal syndrome has turned into a curable disorder.

© 2021 Mallhi et al.

DOI: 10.2147/JBM.S232650
PMCID: PMC8206065
PMID: 34149291

Conflict of interest statement: The authors reported no conflicts of interest 
for this work.


735. Front Pharmacol. 2021 Jun 3;12:670479. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2021.670479. 
eCollection 2021.

Analysis of Models of Doxorubicin-Induced Cardiomyopathy in Rats and Mice. A 
Modern View From the Perspective of the Pathophysiologist and the Clinician.

Podyacheva EY(1), Kushnareva EA(1), Karpov AA(1), Toropova YG(1).

Author information:
(1)Almazov National Medical Research Centre, Ministry of Health of the Russian 
Federation, Saint-Petersburg, Russia.

Today the pharmacological possibilities of treating cancer are expanding and as 
a result, life expectancy is increasing against the background of chemotherapy 
and supportive treatment. In the conditions of successful antitumor treatment, 
complications associated with its toxic effect on healthy tissues and organs 
began to come to the fore. Anthracycline cardiomyopathy was the first serious 
cardiovascular complication to draw the attention of oncologists and 
cardiologists around the world. Anthracycline drugs such as doxorubicin, 
epirubicin, idarubicin are still widely used in oncological practice to treat a 
wide range of solid and hematological malignancies. Doxorubicin-induced 
cardiomyopathy is closely associated with an increase in oxidative stress, as 
evidenced by reactive oxygen species (ROS) nduced damage such as lipid 
peroxidation, and decreased levels of antioxidants. Myofibrillar destruction and 
dysregulation of intracellular calcium are also important mechanisms, usually 
associated with doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. Despite the abundance of 
data on various mechanisms involved in the implementation of doxorubicin-induced 
cardiotoxicity, a final understanding of the mechanism of the development of 
doxorubicin cardiomyopathy has not yet been formed. It poses the most 
significant challenges to the development of new methods of prevention and 
treatment, as well as to the unambiguous choice of a specific treatment regimen 
using the existing pharmacological tools. In order to resolve these issues new 
models that could reflect the development of the chemotherapy drugs effects are 
needed. In this review we have summarized and analyzed information on the main 
existing models of doxorubicin cardiomyopathy using small laboratory animals. In 
addition, this paper discusses further areas of research devoted to the 
development and validation of new improved models of doxorubicin cardiomyopathy 
suitable both for studying the mechanisms of its implementation and for the 
preclinical drugs effectiveness assessment.

Copyright © 2021 Podyacheva, Kushnareva, Karpov and Toropova.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2021.670479
PMCID: PMC8209419
PMID: 34149423

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


736. Innov Clin Neurosci. 2021 Jan 1;18(1-3):11-16. eCollection 2021 Jan-Mar.

Longitudinal Data in Patients with Niemann-Pick Type C Disease Under Combined 
High Intrathecal and Low Intravenous Dose of 2-hydroxylpropyl-β-cyclodextrin.

Bountouvi E(1)(2)(3), Giorgi M(1)(2)(3), Papadopoulou A(1)(2)(3), Blennow 
K(1)(2)(3), Björkhem I(1)(2)(3), Tsirouda M(1)(2)(3), Kanellakis S(1)(2)(3), 
Fryganas A(1)(2)(3), Spanou M(1)(2)(3), Georgaki I(1)(2)(3), Asprogeraka 
S(1)(2)(3), Dinopoulos A(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Drs. Bountouvi, Giorgi, Papadopoulou, Tsirouda, Fryganas, Spanou, Georgaki, 
Asprogeraka, and Dinopoulos are with the Third Department of Pediatrics, Athens 
University Medical School, at the University General Hospital "Attikon" in 
Athens, Greece.
(2)Dr. Blennow is with the Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, Department 
of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, at the Sahlgrenska Academy at the University 
of Gothenburg in Mölndal, Sweden, and the Clinical Neurochemistry Laboratory at 
Sahlgrenska University Hospital in Mölndal, Sweden. Dr. Björkhem is with the 
Department of Laboratory Medicine, Karolinska Institute, at the Karolinska 
University Hospital Huddinge in Huddinge, Sweden.
(3)Dr. Kanellakis is with the Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Harokopio 
University, Kallithea, in Athens, Greece.

Niemann-Pick Type C disease (NPC) is a rare, incurable, autosomal-recessive, 
lysosomal storage disorder with protean and progressive neurovisceral 
manifestations characterized by accumulation of intracellular unesterified 
cholesterol. The investigational use of 2-hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin 
(HP-β-CD) in the treatment of NPC has shown promising results in improving life 
expectancy and reducing neurological damage in this patient population. This 
case report describes two children with the neurological form of NPC: a 
5-year-old male patient in advanced stage of the disease and an 11-year-old 
female patient in moderately advanced stage. Despite treatment with the enzyme 
inhibitor, miglustat, both patients continued to exhibit severe 
neurodegeneration. High intrathecal (900mg) and low intravenous (350-500mg/kg) 
doses of HP-β-CD (Trappsol®Cyclo™) were administrated twice monthly to the 
patients in addition to miglustat therapy. The patients were monitored 
clinically as well as by imaging, laboratory, and biomarker (e.g., total tau 
protein [T-tau]; phosphorylated tau [P-tau]; neurofilament light [NFL], 
oxysterols) studies over a period of 16 to 22 months. The combination therapy of 
miglustat and HP-β-CD resulted in disease stabilization in both patients. The 
combination therapy demonstrated a good safety profile, and no adverse effects 
on hearing were observed. Additionally, CSF biomarkers appeared useful in 
monitoring neuronal damage. Large, randomized studies are needed to confirm 
these findings.

Copyright © 2021. Matrix Medical Communications. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC8195555
PMID: 34150357

Conflict of interest statement: FUNDING:No funding was provided for this study. 
DISCLOSURES:The author has no conflicts of interest relevant to the content of 
this article.


737. BMJ Paediatr Open. 2021 Jun 2;5(1):e001113. doi: 10.1136/bmjpo-2021-001113. 
eCollection 2021.

Comorbidities of deformational plagiocephaly in infancy: a scoping review 
protocol.

Charalambous L(1), Hadders-Algra M(2), N Yamasaki E(1), Lampropoulou S(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life and Health Sciences, School of Sciences and Engineering, 
University of Nicosia, Nicosia, Cyprus.
(2)University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Department of 
Pediatrics, Division of Developmental Neurology, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Physiotherapy, School of Health Rehabilitation Sciences, 
University of Patras, Patras, Greece.

INTRODUCTION: Deformational plagiocephaly (DP) is one of the most common cranial 
shape disorders in infancy. It is characterised by unilateral flattening of the 
skull due to head preference to one side. The literature suggests that DP is 
associated with comorbidities such as developmental delay, but the nature and 
prevalence of the comorbid impairments are still unclear and controversial. 
Therefore, our scoping review (ScR) aims to explore systematically the extent 
and nature of literature by identifying, mapping and categorising the most 
relevant comorbidities of DP in children up to the age of 2 years.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This protocol is based on the framework outlined by Arksey 
and O'Malley. A systematic search will be conducted to identify relevant full 
text studies from 1992 to 2021 using the databases of Cochrane, MEDLINE, Google 
Scholar, EMBASE, PubMed and University of Nicosia EBSCO. Two independent 
reviewers will screen abstracts and full articles in parallel, using specific 
inclusion and exclusion criteria. Specifically, this review will consider 
studies investigating DP and relevant comorbidities in children up to the age of 
2 years of life without craniosynostosis, torticollis and any other diagnosed 
neurodevelopmental deficiency.The Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic 
Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for ScR Checklist will be considered for 
results' analysis and reporting. The results will be described in a narrative 
form in relation to the research question and in the context of the overall 
study purpose.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Research ethics approval is not required for this ScR 
since data will be retrieved from publicly available studies. Dissemination 
activities will include research findings' submission for publication in a 
relevant peer-reviewed journal and presentation of the results at relevant 
conferences.
REGISTRATION: Our protocol was registered prospectively with the Open Science 
Framework (https://osf.io/48am3/).

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjpo-2021-001113
PMCID: PMC8174490
PMID: 34151030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


738. ACS Omega. 2021 May 31;6(23):15205-15221. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.1c01464. 
eCollection 2021 Jun 15.

Novel Mathematical Model for Transient Pressure Analysis of Multifractured 
Horizontal Wells in Naturally Fractured Oil Reservoirs.

Gao Y(1), Rahman MM(1), Lu J(1).

Author information:
(1)Petroleum Engineering Department, Khalifa University of Science and 
Technology, P.O. Box 2533, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.

Multifractured horizontal wells have gained significant attention within the 
petroleum industry for commercial development. Despite considerable developments 
of transient pressure analysis or flow rate behaviors for horizontal wells in 
naturally fractured reservoirs, some significant problems are yet to be 
resolved, including high heterogeneity of reservoirs, pressure sensitivity of 
hydraulic fractures, and non-Darcy flow effect, which may occur during the 
production life. This paper presents a more pragmatic mathematical model for 
multifractured horizontal wells in naturally fractured reservoirs based on the 
fractal system, the theory of permeability modulus, and the time-fractional 
calculus correspondingly as an extension of the classic trilinear flow model. 
This new model comprises three modules: high heterogeneity of the reservoir 
based on the fractal system, the permeability modulus typically showing the 
pressure sensitivity of hydraulic fractures, and the anomalous diffusion 
describing non-Darcy flow turbulence. This investigation evaluates a trilinear 
dual-permeability dual-porosity flow model, with the dual-porosity model for the 
unstimulated outer reservoir flow region, the dual-permeability model for the 
stimulated inner reservoir flow region, and the permeability modulus for the 
flow region of hydraulic fractures. The comprehensive sensitivity analysis 
conducted indicates how the key parameters, such as fractal dimension, hydraulic 
fracture permeability modulus and conductivity, interporosity flow coefficient, 
storativity ratio, etc., affect the transient pressure behaviors, along with 
their reasons for the change in behavior. Application to a field case study 
further demonstrates the validity of the mathematical model, and the results 
presented may play a guiding role in well test interpretation.

© 2021 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.1c01464
PMCID: PMC8210455
PMID: 34151100

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


739. Am J Epidemiol. 2021 Dec 1;190(12):2664-2670. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwab178.

"Translating" All-Cause Mortality Rate Ratios or Hazard Ratios to Age-, 
Longevity-, and Probability-Based Measures.

Pang M, Hanley JA.

Epidemiologists commonly use an adjusted hazard ratio or incidence density 
ratio, or a standardized mortality ratio, to measure a difference in all-cause 
mortality rates. They seldom translate it into an age-, time-, or 
probability-based measure that would be easier to communicate and to relate to. 
Several articles have shown how to translate from a standardized mortality ratio 
or hazard ratio to a longevity difference, a difference in actuarial ages, or a 
probability of being outlived. In this paper, we describe the settings where 
these translations are and are not appropriate and provide some of the 
heuristics behind the formulae. The tools that yield differences in "effective 
age" and in longevity are applicable when both 1) the mortality rate ratio 
(hazard ratio) is constant over age and 2) the rates themselves are log-linear 
in age. The "probability/odds of being outlived" metric is applicable whenever 
the first condition holds, and thus it provides no direct information on the 
magnitude of the effective age/longevity difference.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwab178
PMID: 34151374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Nucleic Acids Res. 2021 Jul 9;49(12):6925-6940. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkab503.

The DEAD-box RNA helicase RhlE2 is a global regulator of Pseudomonas aeruginosa 
lifestyle and pathogenesis.

Hausmann S(1), Gonzalez D(2), Geiser J(1), Valentini M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Medicine, CMU, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
(2)Laboratory of Microbiology, Institute of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, 
University of Neuchâtel, Neuchâtel, Switzerland.

RNA helicases perform essential housekeeping and regulatory functions in all 
domains of life by binding and unwinding RNA molecules. The bacterial RhlE-like 
DEAD-box RNA helicases are among the least well studied of these enzymes. They 
are widespread especially among Proteobacteria, whose genomes often encode 
multiple homologs. The significance of the expansion and diversification of 
RhlE-like proteins for bacterial fitness has not yet been established. Here, we 
study the two RhlE homologs present in the opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa. We show that, in the course of evolution, RhlE1 and RhlE2 have 
diverged in their biological functions, molecular partners and RNA-dependent 
enzymatic activities. Whereas RhlE1 is mainly needed for growth in the cold, 
RhlE2 also acts as global post-transcriptional regulator, affecting the level of 
hundreds of cellular transcripts indispensable for both environmental adaptation 
and virulence. The global impact of RhlE2 is mediated by its unique C-terminal 
extension, which supports the RNA unwinding activity of the N-terminal domain as 
well as an RNA-dependent interaction with the RNase E endonuclease and the 
cellular RNA degradation machinery. Overall, our work reveals how the functional 
and molecular divergence between two homologous RNA helicases can contribute to 
bacterial fitness and pathogenesis.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic 
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkab503
PMCID: PMC8266600
PMID: 34151378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Leuk Lymphoma. 2021 Nov;62(11):2777-2784. doi:
10.1080/10428194.2021.1933477.  Epub 2021 Jun 21.

Cost-effectiveness of once-weekly selinexor, bortezomib, and dexamethasone in 
relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.

Patel KK(1), Parker T(1), Di M(1), Bar N(1), Huntington SF(1)(2), Giri S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology/Oncology, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, CT, USA.
(2)Yale Cancer Outcomes, Public Policy and Effectiveness Research (COPPER) 
Center, New Haven, CT, USA.
(3)Department of Hematology/Oncology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, AL, USA.

The BOSTON trial showed that use of once-weekly selinexor, bortezomib, and 
dexamethasone (SVd) prolonged progression-free survival compared to twice-weekly 
bortezomib and dexamethasone (Vd) in patients with relapsed or refractory (R/R) 
multiple myeloma (MM). In this study, we constructed a Markov model to assess 
the cost-effectiveness of SVd versus Vd in R/R MM. We calculated the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of each treatment strategy from a US payer 
perspective, using a lifetime horizon and a willingness-to-pay threshold of 
$150,000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Use of SVd was associated with 
an incremental cost of $170,002 compared to Vd alone ($1,015,120 vs. $845,118, 
respectively), an incremental effectiveness of 0.35 QALYs (3.43 vs. 3.08 QALYs, 
respectively), and an ICER of $487,361/QALY. These data suggest that use of 
once-weekly SVd for R/R M/M is unlikely to be cost-effective compared to 
twice-weekly Vd.

DOI: 10.1080/10428194.2021.1933477
PMID: 34151696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. J Ment Health Policy Econ. 2021 Jun 1;24(2):31-41.

Cost-Effectiveness of Care Environments for Improving the Mental Health of 
Orphaned and Separated Children and Adolescents in Kenya.

Wilson-Barthes M, Chrysanthopoulou SA, Atwoli L, Ayuku D, Braitstein P, 
Galárraga O(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services, Policy and Practice, Brown University School 
of Public Health, 121 South Main Street, Box G-S121-2, Providence, RI 02912, 
USA, omar_galarraga@brown.edu.

BACKGROUND: Institutionalization has shown contradictory effects on the mental 
health of orphaned and separated children and adolescents (OSCA) in sub-Saharan 
Africa. There is a paucity of data surrounding the cost-effectiveness of 
different care environments for improving OSCA's mental health.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: The goal of this analysis was to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of Charitable Children's Institutions (orphanages) compared 
to family-based settings serving OSCA in East Africa in terms of USD/unit 
reduction in mental health diagnoses (depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress 
disorder, suicidality) and quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
METHODS: This economic analysis was conducted from a societal perspective as 
part of the Orphaned and Separated Children's Assessments Related to their 
(OSCAR's) Health and Well-Being Project, a 10-year longitudinal cohort study 
evaluating the effects of different care environments on OSCA's physical and 
psychological health in western Kenya. Cost data were ascertained from 9 
institutions and 225 family-based settings in the OSCAR cohort via survey 
assessments, budget reports, and expert interviews. Monthly per-child costs were 
calculated as the sum of recurrent and capital costs divided by the 
environment's maximum residential capacity, and cost differences between care 
environments were estimated using two-part models. Mental health effectiveness 
outcomes were derived from prior survival regression analyses conducted among 
the OSCAR cohort. We used Child Depression Inventory Short-Form scores at 
baseline and follow-up to calculate the number of depression-free days (DFDs) 
over the follow-up period, and translated DFDs into QALYs using established 
utility weights. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated 
as the difference in monthly per-child cost divided by the difference in each 
mental health outcome, comparing institutions to family-based settings. Sampling 
uncertainty in the ICERs was handled using nonparametric bootstrapping with 
1,000 replications. We assumed a willingness-to-pay threshold of three times 
Kenya's per capita gross domestic product.
RESULTS: Charitable Children's Institutions cost USD 123 more on average than 
family-based settings in terms of monthly per-child expenditures (p<0.001). 
Compared to family-based care, institutional care resulted in an ICER of USD 
236, USD 280, USD 397, and USD 456 per unit reduction in depression, anxiety, 
PTSD, and suicidal diagnosis among OSCA, respectively. The incremental cost per 
additional QALY was USD 4,929 (95% CI: USD 3096 -- USD 6740). The probability of 
Charitable Children's Institutions being more cost-effective than family-based 
settings was greater than 90% for willingness-to-pay thresholds above USD 
7,000/QALY.
DISCUSSION: Only a subset of institutions in the cohort were willing to provide 
budgetary information for this assessment, which potentially biased our cost 
estimates. However, institutions who did not provide budget data likely had 
lower expenditures than those for whom cost data were collected, leading to more 
conservative cost estimates. Furthermore, our QALY estimates were based solely 
on depression-free days such that OSCA in institutions may experience added 
mental health benefits for no additional costs.
IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH POLICY: Compared to family-based settings, institutions 
may be more cost-effective for improving mental health outcomes among orphaned 
and separated children and adolescents. Our findings suggest that policy-makers 
should prioritize resources to strengthen family-based care but that formal 
institutions can offer cost-effective, mental health support as a last resort.

PMID: 34151779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Plant Dis. 2021 Dec;105(12):3925-3931. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-03-21-0484-RE. Epub
 2021 Dec 3.

Bacterial Disease Complex Including Bleached Spot, Soft Rot, and Blight on Onion 
Seedlings Caused by Complex Infections.

Choi O(1), Kang B(2), Lee Y(3), Kim S(3), Kwon JH(4), Lee JT(4), Kim J(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Agriculture & Life Science, Gyeongsang National University, 
Jinju 52828, Republic of Korea.
(2)Division of Applied Life Science, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju 
52828, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Plant Medicine, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju 52828, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)Onion Research Institute, Gyeongsangnam-do Agricultural Research and 
Extension Services, Changnyeong-Gun 50319, Republic of Korea.

In 2018, a bacterial disease complex composed of bleached spots and soft 
rot-blight on onion seedlings was observed in nursery beds in Changnyeong, a 
major onion-producing county in South Korea. Four bacteria isolated from the 
diseased lesions were identified: Pseudomonas viridiflava, Acidovorax avenae 
subsp. avenae, Pantoea ananatis, and Xanthomonas axonopodis, respectively. We 
referred to the four strains as a "bacterial disease complex" because they were 
isolated from the same sample with multiple symptoms. We examined the 
synergistic activity among the four strains to understand their relationships 
and roles. We monitored in vivo bacterial population density and disease 
progression after artificially inoculating the bacteria on onion seedlings at a 
temperature of 22 or 28°C. The disease pattern progressed sooner at 28 than at 
22°C (by an average of 4 to 6 days). The rate of disease progression induced by 
inoculation of P. ananatis alone was consistent with that induced by 
coinoculation of P. ananatis with the other strains, regardless of the 
temperature (22 or 28°C). The in vivo growth of P. ananatis on onion seedlings 
was not different after inoculation alone versus together with the other 
strains. The rate of disease progression induced by P. viridiflava was similar 
when inoculated alone and when inoculated with other tree strains at 28°C, but 
disease progression induced by inoculation alone was slower at 22°C. The in vivo 
growth of P. viridiflava or X. axonopodis on onion seedlings decreased rapidly 
or gradually, respectively, when inoculated with the other strains. Coinfection 
with the other three strains had repression effects on the growth of P. 
viridiflava, a slight effect on X. axonopodis, and no effect on P. or A. avenae 
subsp. avenae in vivo. These results indicate that the strains coexist or 
interact antagonistically, rather than synergistically, depending on the 
conditions. These results were consistent with the results of the in vitro 
growth inhibition assay, in which P. viridiflava growth was inhibited by X. 
axonopodis or P. ananatis. These results also confirmed that X. axonopodis is 
present on bleached spots and P. viridiflava on soft rot-blight lesions, and 
that P. viridiflava and P. ananatis cause soft rot-blight but do not coexist. A. 
avenae subsp. avenae is a minor causative pathogen of bleached spots on onion 
seedlings, but it is not significantly affected by temperature and has no 
antagonistic or synergistic interactions with X. axonopodis.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-03-21-0484-RE
PMID: 34152204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. J Bone Miner Res. 2021 Oct;36(10):1942-1956. doi: 10.1002/jbmr.4395. Epub
2021  Jul 31.

Systematic review of major osteoporotic fracture to hip fracture incidence rate 
ratios worldwide: implications for Fracture Risk Assessment Tool (FRAX)-derived 
estimates.

Chakhtoura M(1), Dagher H(1), Sharara S(1), Ajjour S(1), Chamoun N(1), Cauley 
J(2), Mahfoud Z(3), Boudreau R(2), El Hajj Fuleihan G(1).

Author information:
(1)Calcium Metabolism & Osteoporosis Program, American University of Beirut 
Medical Center, Beirut, Lebanon.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar, Doha, Qatar.

The Fracture Risk Assessment Tool (FRAX) is the most widely used tool for 
fracture prediction. It provides 10-year probabilities for hip and major 
osteoporotic fracture (MOF). It uses country-specific hip fracture incidence and 
life expectancy data, and for most countries, MOF/hip fracture incidence rate 
ratios (IRRs) from Malmo Sweden. However, the risk of MOF varies by age, sex, 
and geography. The objective is to compare the MOF/hip IRRs across countries, by 
sex and age. This systematic review targeted observational studies of MOF and 
hip fractures in individuals >50 years (PROSPERO 2019 CRD42019129259). One 
reviewer screened potential articles. Two reviewers completed duplicate and 
independent data abstraction, and assessed study quality based on population 
representativeness, study design and duration, definition of ethnicity, and 
fracture characteristics. We calculated the MOF/hip IRRs (95% confidence 
interval) and Z-values to compare IRRs in various countries to those for Sweden. 
We included 27 studies, of fair to good quality in the majority, from Europe 
(15), US and Canada (7), Asia (3), and Australia (2). The IRRs were twofold to 
10-fold higher in younger compared to older age categories, and in women 
compared to men, with few exceptions. Within Europe, and using Sweden as a 
reference, MOF/Hip IRRs in women 50-54 years from Finland, Italy, Netherlands, 
Denmark, and UK were significantly lower by 38% to 60%. Findings were similar in 
men. At older ages, MOF/Hip IRRs were consistently lower in women from European 
countries compared to Sweden, by 10%-40% and 11%-51%, at 75-79 years and 
85-89 years, respectively. Findings were heterogenous in men and in non-European 
countries. In conclusion, the MOF/hip fracture IRR may vary between countries. 
The variability at older ages may affect FRAX prediction when country-specific 
fracture IRRs are not used. Further research is needed to elucidate the 
implication of our findings to FRAX-derived MOF estimates in various countries. 
© 2021 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research (ASBMR).

© 2021 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research (ASBMR).

DOI: 10.1002/jbmr.4395
PMCID: PMC8531513
PMID: 34152628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure Page All authors declare having no 
conflict of interest with regards to the submitted work.


745. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2021 Sep;30(5):e13479. doi: 10.1111/ecc.13479.
Epub  2021 Jun 21.

Demonstrating the value of early economic evaluation alongside clinical trials: 
Exercise medicine for men with metastatic prostate cancer.

Edmunds K(1)(2), Scuffham P(1)(2), Reeves P(3)(4), Galvão DA(5)(6), Taaffe 
DR(5)(6), Newton RU(5)(6), Spry N(5)(7), Joseph D(5)(7), Tuffaha H(8).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Applied Health Economics, Griffith University, Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia.
(2)Menzies Health Institute Queensland, Griffith University, Gold Coast, 
Queensland, Australia.
(3)Hunter Medical Research Institute, New Lambton Heights, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(4)School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, New 
South Wales, Australia.
(5)Exercise Medicine Research Institute, Edith Cowan University, Joondalup, 
Western Australia, Australia.
(6)School of Medical and Health Sciences, Edith Cowan University, Joondalup, 
Western Australia, Australia.
(7)Department of Radiation Oncology, Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, Nedlands, 
Western Australia, Australia.
(8)Centre for the Business and Economics of Health, University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.

DOI: 10.1111/ecc.13479
PMID: 34152655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Am J Case Rep. 2021 Jun 21;22:e931385. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.931385.

Iris Melanocytoma in a Child: Clinical and Histopathological Findings.

Al-Kharashi A(1)(2), Alsakran WA(1), Alshamrani AA(1), AlZaid A(1), Maktabi 
AMY(1), Alzahrani YA(3).

Author information:
(1)King Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(2)King Saud Medical City, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(3)King Fahad Medical City, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

BACKGROUND Melanocytoma is rare and can affect any part of the uveal tract. In 
rare cases, iris melanocytoma shows signs of growth, with extrascleral extension 
that mimics melanoma. This phenomenon makes clinical differentiation between the 
2 pathologies particularly challenging. CASE REPORT A 3-year-old boy presented 
with recurrent ocular inflammation. Examination revealed a large, solid, 
homogenous mass in the inferior quadrants of the iris, with secondary localized 
corneal edema. The lesion did not extend to the ciliary body and fundus 
examination showed no lesions in the posterior segment, including the head of 
the optic nerve. The patient underwent a sectoral iridocyclectomy and excisional 
biopsy of the lesion in the iris. Histopathology of the lesion confirmed the 
diagnosis of iris melanocytoma. CONCLUSIONS The differential diagnosis for a 
mass in the iris is broad, ranging from benign cysts to melanoma, which is a 
life-threatening ocular condition. An iris melanocytoma always should be 
considered in the differential of these masses, despite their exceedingly low 
incidence. Although iris melanocytoma mainly manifests in patients who are 
middle-aged or older, it should be suspected in young children, as underscored 
by the present report.

DOI: 10.12659/AJCR.931385
PMCID: PMC8235677
PMID: 34153023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None declared Conflict of 
Interest None.


747. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2021 Jun 21;15(6):e0009505. doi: 
10.1371/journal.pntd.0009505. eCollection 2021 Jun.

Economic and disease burden of Japanese encephalitis in Zhejiang Province, 
2013-2018.

Deng X(1), Yan R(1), Li ZQ(2), Tang XW(1), Zhou Y(1), He H(1).

Author information:
(1)Zhejiang Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Hangzhou, 
People's Republic of China.
(2)Xiamen University, Xiamen, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Japanese encephalitis (JE) is a mosquito-borne disease and 
associated with high mortality and disability rate among symptomatic cases. In 
the absence of local data, this study estimated the economic burden and the 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) due to JE in Zhejiang Province, China 
during 2013-2018, to increase disease awareness and provide evidence for 
effective health policy.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPLE FINDINGS: We merged multiple data sources, including 
National Notifiable Disease Registry System (NNDRS), patient interviews and 
medical records from corresponding hospitals for JE cases which occurred during 
2013-2018 in Zhejiang Province. Direct costs were extracted from hospitals' 
billing systems and patient interviews. Indirect costs and disease burden were 
calculated based on questionnaire survey from patient interviews and follow-up 
assessment by general practitioners. Given under-reporting, an expansion factor 
(EF) was applied to extrapolate the JE burden to the provincial level. The total 
economic burden of JE during 2013-2018 was estimated at US $12.01 million with 
an EF = 3. Of this, $8.32 million was due to direct economic cost and $3.69 
million to indirect cost. The disease burden of JE was 42.75 DALYs per million 
population (28.44 YLD, 14.28 YLL) according to the 1990 Global Burden of Disease 
(GBD 1990) methodology and 80.01 DALYs (53.67YLD, 26.34YLL) according to the GBD 
2010 methodology. Sensitivity analysis demonstrated that the overall economic 
burden varied from US$ 1.73-36.42 million. The greatest variation was due to the 
prognosis of illness (-85.57%-203.17%), followed by occupation (-34.07%-134.12%) 
and age (-72.97%-47.69%).
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: JE imposes a heavy burden for families and society in 
Zhejiang Province. This study provides comprehensive empirical estimates of JE 
burden to increase awareness and strengthen knowledge of the public. These data 
may support provincial level public health decision making for prevention and 
control of JE. Ongoing surveillance for acute meningitis and encephalitis 
syndrome (AEMS) in sentinel hospitals, is needed to further refine estimates of 
JE burden.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0009505
PMCID: PMC8248708
PMID: 34153039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


748. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2021 Jun 21;15(6):e0009464. doi: 
10.1371/journal.pntd.0009464. eCollection 2021 Jun.

Health and economic burden estimates of snakebite management upon health 
facilities in three regions of southern Burkina Faso.

Ahmed S(1)(2)(3)(4), Koudou GB(2)(5), Bagot M(1), Drabo F(6), Bougma WR(7), 
Pulford C(1)(8)(9), Bockarie M(2)(10), Harrison RA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The Centre for Snakebite Research & Interventions, Department of Tropical 
Disease Biology, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, Liverpool, United 
Kingdom.
(2)The Centre for Neglected Tropical Diseases, Department of Tropical Disease 
Biology, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, Liverpool, United Kingdom.
(3)Mathematical Modelling Group, Oxford University Clinical Research Unit 
(OUCRU), Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
(4)Centre for Tropical Medicine and Global Health, Nuffield Department of 
Medicine, University of Oxford, United Kingdom.
(5)Centre Suisse de Recherches Scientifiques, Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire.
(6)Ministère de la Santé, Direction de la Promotion de la Santé, Ouagadougou, 
Burkina Faso.
(7)Ministère de la Santé, Direction de la Prévention de la Santé de la 
Population, Programme National de lute contre les Maladies Tropicales Négligées, 
Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso.
(8)National Infection Service, Public Health England Colindale, London, United 
Kingdom.
(9)Institute of infection, Veterinary and Ecological Sciences, University of 
Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom.
(10)School of Community Health Sciences, Njala University, Bo Campus, Bo, Sierra 
Leone.

BACKGROUND: Snakebite has become better recognized as a significant cause of 
death and disability in Sub-Saharan Africa, but the health economic consequences 
to victims and health infrastructures serving them remain poorly understood. 
This information gap is important as it provides an evidence-base guiding 
national and international health policy decision making on the most 
cost-effective interventions to better manage snakebite. Here, we assessed 
hospital-based data to estimate the health economic burden of snakebite in three 
regions of Burkina Faso (Centre-Ouest, Hauts Bassins and Sud-Ouest).
METHODOLOGY: Primary data of snakebite victims admitted to regional and district 
health facilities (eg, number of admissions, mortality, hospital bed days 
occupied) was collected in three regions over 17 months in 2013/14. The health 
burden of snakebite was assessed using Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) 
calculations based upon hospitalisation, mortality and disability data from 
admitted patients amongst other inputs from secondary sources (eg, populations, 
life-expectancy and age-weighting constants). An activity-based costing approach 
to determine the direct cost of snake envenoming included unit costs of clinical 
staff wages, antivenom, supportive care and equipment extracted from 
context-relevant literature.
FINDINGS: The 10,165 snakebite victims admitted to hospital occupied 28,164 
hospital bed days over 17 months. The annual rate of hospitalisation and 
mortality of admitted snakebite victims was 173 and 1.39/100,000 population, 
respectively. The estimated annual (i) DALYs lost was 2,153 (0.52/1,000) and 
(ii) cost to hospitals was USD 506,413 (USD 49/hospitalisation) in these three 
regions of Burkina Faso. These costs appeared to be influenced by the number of 
patients receiving antivenom (10.90% in total) in each area (highest in 
Sud-Ouest) and the type of health facility.
CONCLUSION: The economic burden of snake envenoming is primarily shouldered by 
the rural health centres closest to snakebite victims-facilities that are 
typically least well equipped or resourced to manage this burden. Our study 
highlights the need for more research in other regions/countries to demonstrate 
the burden of snakebite and the socioeconomic benefits of its management. This 
evidence can guide the most cost-effective intervention from government and 
development partners to meet the snakebite-management needs of rural communities 
and their health centres.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0009464
PMCID: PMC8248599
PMID: 34153048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


749. Psychooncology. 2021 Oct;30(10):1691-1698. doi: 10.1002/pon.5751. Epub 2021
Jun  27.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of telephone-based cognitive behaviour therapy 
compared to treatment as usual CBT for cancer patients: Evidence from a small, 
randomised controlled trial.

Rodrigues P(1), Watson M(2)(3), White C(3)(4), Lynch A(4), Mohammed K(5), Sagoo 
GS(1).

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Health Economics, Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, 
University of Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(2)Institute of Cancer Research, Sutton, UK.
(3)Research Department of Clinical, Educational & Health Psychology, University 
College London, London, UK.
(4)The Royal Marsden NHS Trust, Sutton, UK.
(5)Research and Development Department, The Royal Marsden NHS Trust, Sutton, UK.

OBJECTIVE: A previous equivalence randomised trial indicated that 
Telephone-based Cognitive Behaviour Therapy (T-CBT) was not inferior to 
Treatment as Usual CBT (TAU-CBT) delivered face to face in terms of 
psychological benefit with both groups showing post-therapy improvements 
compared to pre-therapy baseline. The aim here is to clarify costs and benefits 
through an economic evaluation of the two therapy models.
METHOD: The cost-effectiveness analysis (cost per quality-adjusted life year 
[QALY]) was derived from a single-centre (UK-based), two-arm randomised control 
trial. Data from 78 patients were available for the main analysis, which 
includes both an NHS cost perspective and a societal perspective which includes 
the cost of time off work and any additional private care. Sensitivity analyses 
were undertaken, which included patients only completing the four core therapy 
sessions (46 patients) and considering only patients taking both core and the 
additional therapy sessions which were optional (32 patients).
RESULTS: The base-case analysis, adopting an NHS perspective, showed that T-CBT 
was associated with an incremental cost of £50 (95% CI: -£759 to £989) and a 
0.03 QALY (95% CI: -0.09 to 0.03) decrement per patient when compared to 
TAU-CBT. The analysis adopting a societal perspective yielded similar results, 
with T-CBT providing an incremental cost of £171 (95% CI: -£769 to £1112) and a 
0.03 QALY (95% CI: -0.08 to 0.03) decrement per patient in comparison to 
TAU-CBT. The first sensitivity analysis, considering patients only taking the 
core therapy sessions, showed that T-CBT provided an incremental cost of £100 
(95% CI: -£945 to £1247) and yielded a decrement of 0.01 QALY (95% CI: -0.03 to 
0.01) per patient compared to TAU-CBT. The second sensitivity analysis, which 
focused solely on patients who also underwent optional sessions, showed that 
T-CBT was associated with an incremental cost of £17 (95% CI: -£1307 to £1454) 
and a 0.04 QALY (95% CI: -0.11 to 0.03) decrement per patient when compared to 
TAU-CBT.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on this single trial, T-CBT is not cost-effective as a 
therapy option for cancer patients with high psychological needs when compared 
to TAU-CBT.

© 2021 The Authors. Psycho-Oncology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pon.5751
PMID: 34153136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis. 2021 Aug;30(8):105884. doi: 
10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2021.105884. Epub 2021 Jun 18.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Percutaneous Patent Foramen Ovale Closure 
Preventing Secondary Ischemic Stroke in Japan.

Inoue S(1), Igarashi A(2), Iguchi Y(3), Akagi T(4).

Author information:
(1)CRECON Medical Assessment Inc., Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address: 
sachie.inoue@crecon.jp.
(2)Unit of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Yokohama City University 
School of Medicine, Kanagawa, Japan; Department of Health Economics and Outcomes 
Research, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Neurology, The Jikei University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(4)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Okayama University, Okayama, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: Patent foramen ovale is a hemodynamically insignificant interatrial 
communication that may cause ischemic stroke. Percutaneous patent foramen ovale 
closure reduces the risk for recurrent ischemic stroke in patients with a 
history of cryptogenic ischemic stroke. This study evaluated the 
cost-effectiveness of patent foramen ovale closure against medical therapy in 
patients after their first cryptogenic ischemic stroke in Japan.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The cost-effectiveness of patent foramen ovale closure 
compared with medical therapy was evaluated using the Markov model. The target 
patients started with patent foramen ovale closure or medical therapy for 
preventing secondary ischemic stroke under a stable state. Quality-adjusted life 
year was used as the outcome of effectiveness, and the analysis was conducted 
with a discount rate of 2% applied to both cost and effectiveness. The results 
of a multicenter open-label randomized controlled trial (RESPECT trial) 
evaluating patent foramen ovale closure using the Amplatzer™ PFO Occluder were 
used as clinical evidence. Cost-effectiveness was evaluated using the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. It was evaluated as cost-effective if it 
was lower than 5 million JPY/ quality-adjusted life year.
RESULTS: Patent foramen ovale closure was dominant over medical therapy by 2.53 
quality-adjusted life years and an estimated cost reduction of 2,353,926 JPY. 
The probability of patent foramen ovale closure being dominant was 82.9%.
CONCLUSIONS: Patent foramen ovale closure was dominant over medical therapy for 
preventing secondary ischemic stroke in patients with cryptogenic ischemic 
stroke.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2021.105884
PMID: 34153592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Dr. Igarashi 
has no conflicts of interest relevant to the content of this article. Dr. Iguchi 
received grants from Abbott Medical Japan Co. Ltd., Sanofi SA, Daiichi-Sankyo 
Co. Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, and Bayer AG. Dr. Iguchi received personal 
fees (honoraria) for lecture from Abbott Medical Japan Co. Ltd., Sanofi SA, 
Daiichi-Sankyo Co. Ltd., Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Bayer AG, Pfizer Inc., and 
Bristol-Myers. Dr. Akagi received consultant fees from Abbott Medical Japan Co. 
Ltd. Dr. Inoue is an employee of CRECON Medical Assessment Inc. CRECON Medical 
Assessment Inc. was paid from Abbott Medical Japan Co. Ltd. to conduct analyses 
for the study.


751. Sci Total Environ. 2021 Oct 20;792:148480. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2021.148480.  Epub 2021 Jun 16.

Air pollution and life expectancy in Europe: Does investment in renewable energy 
matter?

Rodriguez-Alvarez A(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Oviedo, Department of Economics, Campus del Cristo s/n, 33006 
Oviedo, Spain. Electronic address: ana@uniovi.es.

This study examines the relationship between health and air pollution using a 
novel approach that allows differentiation between potential and observed 
health. It also permits an analysis of those factors that may contribute towards 
reducing any differences between the latter concepts. To this end, a panel data 
from 29 European countries for the periods 2005 and 2018 is used. Results 
indicate that the main pollutants affecting European countries, namely NOx, PM10 
and PM2.5 have a negative impact on life expectancy at birth, while investment 
in renewable energies has a positive effect. Several conclusions can be drawn 
from these results. Firstly, if the aim is to minimize the detrimental effects 
of the global production of goods and services on air quality, a greater 
investment in renewable energies as compared to other more polluting ones, is 
called for. In turn, this would contribute to an improvement in the general 
health of citizens and the planet thereby increasing overall potential life 
expectancy. Secondly, NOx gases seem to be the ones that most affect the 
population's mean potential life expectancy. Results indicate that with regard 
to particulate matters, those with a diameter of less than 2.5 μm, are the ones 
that have the greatest impact on the health of European citizens, more so than 
larger particles (with a diameter between 10 and 2.5 μm).

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2021.148480
PMID: 34153769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


752. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2021 Jun 21;20(5):451-459. doi:
10.6004/jnccn.2020.7798.

Potential Cost-Effectiveness of Risk-Based Pancreatic Cancer Screening in 
Patients With New-Onset Diabetes.

Schwartz NRM(1), Matrisian LM(2), Shrader EE(2), Feng Z(3), Chari S(4), Roth 
JA(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)CHOICE Institute, Department of Pharmacy, University of Washington, Seattle, 
Washington.
(2)Pancreatic Cancer Action Network, Manhattan Beach, California.
(3)Public Health Sciences Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 
Seattle, Washington; and.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Division of Internal Medicine, 
The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.

BACKGROUND: There are no established methods for pancreatic cancer (PAC) 
screening, but the NCI and the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network (PanCAN) are 
investigating risk-based screening strategies in patients with new-onset 
diabetes (NOD), a group with elevated PAC risk. Preliminary estimates of the 
cost-effectiveness of these strategies can provide insights about potential 
value and inform supplemental data collection. Using data from the Enriching 
New-Onset Diabetes for Pancreatic Cancer (END-PAC) risk model validation study, 
we assessed the potential value of CT screening for PAC in those determined to 
be at elevated risk, as is being done in a planned PanCAN Early Detection 
Initiative trial.
METHODS: We created an integrated decision tree and Markov state-transition 
model to assess the cost-effectiveness of PAC screening in patients aged ≥50 
years with NOD using CT imaging versus no screening. PAC prevalence, 
sensitivity, and specificity were derived from the END-PAC validation study. PAC 
stage distribution in the no-screening strategy and PAC survival were derived 
from the SEER program. Background mortality for patients with diabetes, 
