to meet the unique health needs and challenges of people living with HIV and 
other chronic conditions. Strengthening these outcomes includes providing 
capacity building and training on the delivery of chronic care treatment under 
the ICDM model, assisted self-management to improve patient responsibility of 
chronic disease management and strengthening activities for comorbidity health 
promotion.

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-021-06670-3
PMCID: PMC8254615
PMID: 34217285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests to 
declare.


935. Value Health Reg Issues. 2021 Sep;25:157-164. doi:
10.1016/j.vhri.2021.03.005.  Epub 2021 Jul 1.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Community Case Management of Childhood Diarrhea 
in Burundi.

Niyibitegeka F(1), Riewpaiboon A(2), Sangroongruangsri S(3).

Author information:
(1)Master of Science Program in Social, Economic, and Administrative Pharmacy, 
Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(2)Division of Social and Administrative Pharmacy, Department of Pharmacy, 
Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand. Electronic address: 
arthorn.rie@mahidol.ac.th.
(3)Division of Social and Administrative Pharmacy, Department of Pharmacy, 
Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of community case 
management (CCM) program of childhood diarrhea by providing oral rehydration 
salts and zinc through community health workers in Burundi.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis study using a Markov modeling approach 
was undertaken to assess the CCM program of diarrhea from both provider and 
societal perspectives. The CCM program was compared with the routine management 
of childhood diarrhea at health facilities. Primary data on the cost of 
childhood diarrhea management were collected. Both economic and health outcomes 
were assessed for a period of 5 years, and a discount rate of 3% was applied. 
One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: The CCM program was found to be both less costly and more effective 
resulting to a negative value of incremental cost-effectiveness ratios, 
indicating that the program was dominant producing cost savings. Compared with 
the routine treatment of diarrhea at health facilities, the CCM program would 
avert 2749 additional disability-adjusted life years over a period of 5 years. 
The economic burden was reduced of US$1 056 699 and US$2 328 531 from the 
provider and societal perspectives, respectively. The cost-effectiveness 
estimates were mostly sensitive to the discount rate and the cost of outpatient 
visits at health facilities. The intervention remained dominant with a 100% 
probability of cost savings within 10 000 simulations of the sensitivity 
analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Providing inexpensive diarrheal treatment (oral rehydration salts 
and zinc) in communities is an attractive cost-effective intervention. Evidence 
from this study should be used to scale up the coverage of this life- and 
cost-saving intervention.

Copyright © 2021 ISPOR--The professional society for health economics and 
outcomes research. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vhri.2021.03.005
PMID: 34218086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Meat Sci. 2021 Nov;181:108613. doi: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2021.108613. Epub 2021
Jun  26.

Evaluation of the potential of protective cultures to extend the microbial 
shelf-life of chilled lamb meat.

Xu MM(1), Kaur M(2), Pillidge CJ(3), Torley PJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Biosciences and Food Technology, School of Science, RMIT University, 
Melbourne, Australia. Electronic address: michelle.xu@rmit.edu.au.
(2)Biosciences and Food Technology, School of Science, RMIT University, 
Melbourne, Australia. Electronic address: mandeep.kaur@rmit.edu.au.
(3)Biosciences and Food Technology, School of Science, RMIT University, 
Melbourne, Australia. Electronic address: christopher.pillidge@rmit.edu.au.
(4)Biosciences and Food Technology, School of Science, RMIT University, 
Melbourne, Australia. Electronic address: peter.torley@rmit.edu.au.

The use of protective cultures to inhibit spoilage bacteria is a promising 
natural preservation technique to extend the shelf-life of fresh meat. This 
study evaluated the effectiveness of six food-grade protective cultures 
(containing different combinations of Lactobacillus sakei, Pediococcus 
pentosaceus, Staphylococcus xylosus, and Staphylococcus carnosus) on naturally 
contaminated chill-stored (4 °C) lamb meat in different packaging systems. Only 
slight reductions of common meat spoilage bacteria Brochothrix thermosphacta, 
Pseudomonas spp., and Enterobacteriaceae were observed in culture-treated 
samples stored in modified atmosphere packaging (80% O2:20% CO2). Greater 
inhibitory effects were found in vacuum-packed lamb, with mixed cultures 
containing either L. sakei, S. carnosus, and S. xylosus or S. carnosus and L. 
sakei causing the most significant reductions. Protective cultures did not 
adversely affect meat color or pH. This study demonstrated the potential of 
protective cultures comprising lactic acid bacteria and coagulase-negative 
staphylococci in controlling microbial spoilage of lamb and, by inference, other 
types of meat as a natural solution for shelf-life extension.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2021.108613
PMID: 34218124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. J Radiat Res. 2021 Sep 13;62(5):884-893. doi: 10.1093/jrr/rrab060.

Virtual randomized study comparing lobectomy and particle beam therapy for 
clinical stage IA non-small cell lung cancer in operable patients.

Seo YS(1), Park WY(2), Kim SW(3), Kim D(3), Min BJ(1), Kim WD(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Chungbuk National University Hospital, 
Cheongju 28644, Korea.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Chungbuk National University Hospital, 
College of Medicine, Chungbuk National University, Cheongju 28644, Korea.
(3)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Chungbuk National 
University Hospital, College of Medicine, Chungbuk National University, Cheongju 
28644, Korea.

To the best of our knowledge there have been no randomized controlled trials 
comparing lobectomy-a standard treatment for patients with early-stage non-small 
cell lung cancer (NSCLC)-and particle beam therapy (PBT), the best performing 
existing radiotherapy. We conducted a virtual randomized trial in medically 
operable patients with stage IA NSCLC to compare lobectomy and PBT 
effectiveness. A Markov model was developed to predict life expectancy after 
lobectomy and PBT in a cohort of patients with stage IA NSCLC. Ten thousand 
virtual patients were randomly assigned to each group. Sensitivity analyses were 
performed as model variables and scenarios changed to determine which treatment 
strategy was best for improving life expectancy. All estimated model parameters 
were determined using variables extracted from a systematic literature review of 
previously published articles. The preferred strategy differed depending on 
patient age. In young patients, lobectomy showed better life expectancy than 
that of PBT. The difference in life expectancy between lobectomy and PBT was 
statistically insignificant in older patients. Our model predicted lobectomy as 
the preferred strategy when operative mortality was under 5%. However, the 
preferred strategy changed to PBT if operative mortality post lobectomy was over 
5%. For medically operable patients with stage IA NSCLC, our Markov model 
revealed the preferred strategy of lobectomy or PBT regarding operative 
mortality changed with varying age and comorbidity. Until randomized controlled 
trial results become available, we hope the current results will provide a 
rationale background for clinicians to decide treatment modalities for patients 
with stage IA NSCLC.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Japanese Radiation Research Society and Japanese Society for Radiation Oncology.

DOI: 10.1093/jrr/rrab060
PMCID: PMC8438263
PMID: 34218277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Trop Med Int Health. 2021 Oct;26(10):1276-1284. doi: 10.1111/tmi.13650. Epub
 2021 Jul 21.

The impact of ageing on the incidence and mortality rate of bloodstream 
infection: A hospital-based case-cohort study in a tertiary public hospital of 
Brazil.

da Silva NCZ(1), da Rocha JA(2), do Valle FM(2), Silva ASDN(1), Ehrlich S(3), 
Martins IS(1).

Author information:
(1)Infection Disease Division, Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of 
Medicine, Universidade Federal Fluminense, Niterói, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(2)Hospital Universitário Antônio Pedro, Faculty of Medicine, Universidade 
Federal Fluminense, Niterói, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(3)Division of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital 
Medical Center, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, Ohio, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: Over the past few decades, life expectancy in Brazil has increased 
from 48 years in 1950s to 76 years in 2017. The aim of this study was to 
investigate the impact of ageing on: (1) the frequency of hospitalisations due 
to bloodstream infection (BSI); (2) the incidence of hospital-acquired BSI 
(H-BSI); (3) the incidence of BSI caused by multidrug-resistant (MDR) agents and 
(4) the mortality rate of BSI in a public hospital.
METHODS: A hospital-based case-cohort study was conducted between 1 December 
2013 and 31 December 2015. The data were analysed using multivariable logistic 
regression.
RESULTS: A total of 500 BSI episodes were detected, among 11,102 
hospitalizations. The incidence of hospitalisations resulting from BSI was 
significantly higher in older than younger patients (3.7/100 vs. 2.0/100, 
p < 0.01). Similarly, the incidence of hospital-acquired BSI was significantly 
higher in older patients (2.7/100 vs. 0.9/100, p < 0.01). Klebsiella pneumoniae 
(15.9%), Staphylococcus aureus (14.3%), Escherichia coli (13.1%) and 
Acinetobacter spp. (12.1%) were the most common agents isolated. MDR agents 
caused 37.6% of the BSI episodes; enteric Gram-negative bacilli resistant to 
third- or fourth-generation cephalosporins (9.7%) and carbapenem-resistant 
Acinetobacter spp. (9.2%) were the most common MDR agents. The following 
complications were independently associated with ageing: Charlson comorbidity 
index (OR = 1.16; 95% CI = 1.09-1.24); BSI secondary to urinary tract infection 
(OR = 2.14; 95% CI = 1.29-3.55); BSI secondary to pneumonia (OR = 1.77; 95% 
CI = 1.07-2.93) and 30-day mortality following BSI (OR = 2.19; 95% 
CI = 1.43-3.36).
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest ageing has a significant impact on 
hospitalisations due to BSI, H-BSI incidence and mortality from BSI in older 
patients attending a Brazilian public hospital. Age was not significantly 
associated with MDR-related BSI. These results indicate that age plays an 
important role in the increase in morbidities and mortality resulting from BSI 
in Brazil and that with the increased life expectancy observed over recent 
decades in Brazil, the burden of BSI will be expected to continue to increase. 
This dynamic needs to be better understood with additional studies.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tmi.13650
PMID: 34218504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. BMC Public Health. 2021 Jul 5;21(1):1238. doi: 10.1186/s12889-021-11089-w.

Could age increase the strength of inverse association between ultraviolet B 
exposure and colorectal cancer?

Purushothaman VL(1)(2), Cuomo RE(1)(2)(3), Garland CF(4), Mackey TK(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, University of California, San Diego, USA.
(2)Global Health Policy Institute, San Diego, USA.
(3)Division of Extended Studies, University of California, San Diego, USA.
(4)Department of Family Medicine and Public Health, University of California, 
San Diego, USA.
(5)Department of Anesthesiology, University of California, San Diego, USA. 
tmackey@ucsd.edu.
(6)Global Health Policy Institute, San Diego, USA. tmackey@ucsd.edu.
(7)Division of Extended Studies, University of California, San Diego, USA. 
tmackey@ucsd.edu.

BACKGROUND: Vitamin D has been identified as a potential protective factor in 
the development of colorectal cancer (CRC). We expect to see a stronger 
association of ultraviolet B (UVB) exposure and CRC crude rates with increasing 
age since chronic vitamin D deficiency leads to sustained molecular changes that 
increase cancer risk. The DINOMIT (disjunction, initiation, natural selection, 
overgrowth, metastasis, involution, and transition) model postulates various 
stages of cancer development due to vitamin D deficiency and the associated 
latency period. The purpose of this study is to examine this age-dependent 
inverse relationship globally.
METHODS: In this ecological study, a series of linear and polynomial regression 
tests were performed between country-specific UVB estimates adjusted for cloud 
cover and crude incidence rates of CRC for different age groups. Multiple linear 
regression was used to investigate the association between crude incidence rates 
of colorectal cancer and UVB estimate adjusting for urbanization, skin 
pigmentation, smoking, animal consumption, per capita GDP, and life expectancy. 
Statistical analysis was followed by geospatial visualization by producing 
choropleth maps.
RESULTS: The inverse relationship between UVB exposure and CRC crude rates was 
stronger in older age groups at the country level. Quadratic curve fitting was 
preferred, and these models were statistically significant for all age groups. 
The inverse association between crude incidence rates of CRC and UVB exposure 
was statistically significant for age groups above 45 years, after controlling 
for covariates.
CONCLUSION: The age-dependent inverse association between UVB exposure and 
incidence of colorectal cancer exhibits a greater effect size among older age 
groups in global analyses. Studying the effect of chronic vitamin D deficiency 
on colorectal cancer etiology will help in understanding the necessity for 
population-wide screening programs for vitamin D deficiency, especially in 
regions with inadequate UVB exposure. Further studies are required to assess the 
need for adequate public health programs such as selective supplementation and 
food fortification.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-021-11089-w
PMCID: PMC8256562
PMID: 34218809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: TM is a senior editorial board member of BMC 
Public Health. TM is an employee of the startup company S-3 Research LLC. S-3 
Research is a startup funded and currently supported by the National Institutes 
of Health – National Institute on Drug Abuse through a Small Business Innovation 
and Research contract for opioid-related social media research and technology 
commercialization. Author reports no other conflict of interest associated with 
this manuscript.


940. Ann Indian Acad Neurol. 2021 Mar-Apr;24(2):173-177. doi: 
10.4103/aian.AIAN_952_20. Epub 2021 Mar 31.

Biotin-Thiamine-Responsive Basal Ganglia Disease in Children: A Treatable 
Neurometabolic Disorder.

Saini AG(1), Sharma S(2).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Neurology, Department of Pediatrics, Advanced Pediatric Centre, 
Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, India.
(2)Neurology Division, Department of Pediatrics, Lady Hardinge Medical College 
and Associated Kalawati Saran Children's Hospital, New Delhi, India.

Biotin-thiamine-responsive basal ganglia disease is a rare, autosomal recessive, 
treatable, neurometabolic disorder associated with biallelic pathogenic 
variations in the SLC19A3 gene. The condition may present as an early-childhood 
encephalopathy, an early-infantile lethal encephalopathy with lactic acidosis, 
with or without infantile spasms, or a late-onset Wernicke-like encephalopathy. 
The key radiological features are bilateral, symmetrical lesions in the caudate, 
putamen, and medial thalamus, with variable extension into the brain stem, 
cerebral cortex, and cerebellum. Treatment is life long and includes initiation 
of high dose biotin and thiamine. Genetic testing confirms the diagnosis. The 
prognosis depends on the time from diagnosis to the time of vitamin 
supplementation. The genotype-phenotype correlations are not clear yet, but the 
early infantile phenotype portends a poorer prognosis. We provide a brief 
overview of the disorder and emphasize the initiation of high-dose biotin and 
thiamine in infants and children with unexplained encephalopathy and basal 
ganglia involvement.

Copyright: © 2006 - 2021 Annals of Indian Academy of Neurology.

DOI: 10.4103/aian.AIAN_952_20
PMCID: PMC8232498
PMID: 34220059

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


941. Eur J Ageing. 2020 Mar 16;18(2):217-226. doi: 10.1007/s10433-020-00563-w. 
eCollection 2021 Jun.

Gender differences in health in Havana versus in Mexico City and in the US 
Hispanic population.

Kühn M(1), Díaz-Venegas C(1), Jasilionis D(1)(2), Oksuzyan A(1).

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Konrad-Zuse Straße 1, 18057 
Rostock, Germany.
(2)Demographic Research Centre, Vytautas Magnus University, Jonavos Str. 66-212, 
44191 Kaunas, Lithuania.

Health progress in the 1960s and 1970s placed Cuba at the vanguard of longevity 
in Latin America and the Caribbean. This success has often been attributed to 
equity of access to the health care system and its cost-effectiveness in the 
country. Cuba also has a small gender gap in life expectancy. In this study, we 
examined how this pattern is reflected in the gender differences in health among 
the population aged 60+ in Havana. We compared gender differences in health in 
samples drawn from Havana, Mexico City, and the US Hispanic population: three 
geographic settings with very different political, health care, and social 
systems. The data come from the Survey on Health, Well-Being, and Aging in Latin 
America and the Caribbean and the 2000 Health and Retirement Study. Age-adjusted 
prevalence and logistic regressions were estimated for poor self-rated health, 
limitations on activities of daily living, depression, and mobility limitations. 
While an absolute female disadvantage in health was apparent in all three 
populations, the relative gender differences were inconsistent across all four 
health domains. Gender differences were most pronounced in Havana, even after 
adjusting for age, socio-economic status, family characteristics, and smoking 
behaviour. Despite having higher overall life expectancy and more equitable and 
universal access to primary care and preventive medicine, women in Havana appear 
to have a larger burden of ill health than women in less equitable societies. 
The study provides indirect evidence that Cuba faces challenges in combating the 
health threats posed by chronic diseases and other diseases and conditions 
common among the population aged 60+.

© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-020-00563-w
PMCID: PMC8217427
PMID: 34220403

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors have no conflict 
of interest to report.


942. Front Neurosci. 2021 Jun 18;15:682259. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2021.682259. 
eCollection 2021.

The Potential Role of Inflammation in Modulating Endogenous Hippocampal 
Neurogenesis After Spinal Cord Injury.

Sefiani A(1), Geoffroy CG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Experimental Therapeutics, College of 
Medicine, Texas A&M University, Bryan, TX, United States.

Currently there are approximately 291,000 people suffering from a spinal cord 
injury (SCI) in the United States. SCI is associated with traumatic changes in 
mobility and neuralgia, as well as many other long-term chronic health 
complications, including metabolic disorders, diabetes mellitus, non-alcoholic 
steatohepatitis, osteoporosis, and elevated inflammatory markers. Due to medical 
advances, patients with SCI survive much longer than previously. This increase 
in life expectancy exposes them to novel neurological complications such as 
memory loss, cognitive decline, depression, and Alzheimer's disease. In fact, 
these usually age-associated disorders are more prevalent in people living with 
SCI. A common factor of these disorders is the reduction in hippocampal 
neurogenesis. Inflammation, which is elevated after SCI, plays a major role in 
modulating hippocampal neurogenesis. While there is no clear consensus on the 
mechanism of the decline in hippocampal neurogenesis and cognition after SCI, we 
will examine in this review how SCI-induced inflammation could modulate 
hippocampal neurogenesis and provoke age-associated neurological disorders. 
Thereafter, we will discuss possible therapeutic options which may mitigate the 
influence of SCI associated complications on hippocampal neurogenesis.

Copyright © 2021 Sefiani and Geoffroy.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2021.682259
PMCID: PMC8249862
PMID: 34220440

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


943. Front Plant Sci. 2021 Jun 16;12:609684. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2021.609684. 
eCollection 2021.

Transcriptomics of Differential Ripening in 'd'Anjou' Pear (Pyrus communis L.).

Honaas L(1), Hargarten H(1), Hadish J(2), Ficklin SP(2)(3), Serra S(3)(4), 
Musacchi S(3)(4), Wafula E(5), Mattheis J(1), dePamphilis CW(5), Rudell D(1).

Author information:
(1)USDA, ARS, Tree Fruit Research Laboratory, Wenatchee, WA, United States.
(2)Molecular Plant Sciences, Washington State University, Pullman, WA, United 
States.
(3)Department of Horticulture, Washington State University, Pullman, WA, United 
States.
(4)Tree Fruit Research and Extension Center, Washington State University, 
Wenatchee, WA, United States.
(5)Department of Biology, The Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences, Pennsylvania 
State University, University Park, PA, United States.

Estimating maturity in pome fruits is a critical task that directs virtually all 
postharvest supply chain decisions. This is especially important for European 
pear (Pyrus communis) cultivars because losses due to spoilage and senescence 
must be minimized while ensuring proper ripening capacity is achieved (in part 
by satisfying a fruit chilling requirement). Reliable methods are lacking for 
accurate estimation of pear fruit maturity, and because ripening is maturity 
dependent it makes predicting ripening capacity a challenge. In this study of 
the European pear cultivar 'd'Anjou', we sorted fruit at harvest based upon 
on-tree fruit position to build contrasts of maturity. Our sorting scheme showed 
clear contrasts of maturity between canopy positions, yet there was substantial 
overlap in the distribution of values for the index of absorbance difference (I 
AD ), a non-destructive spectroscopic measurement that has been used as a proxy 
for pome fruit maturity. This presented an opportunity to explore a contrast of 
maturity that was more subtle than I AD could differentiate, and thus guided our 
subsequent transcriptome analysis of tissue samples taken at harvest and during 
storage. Using a novel approach that tests for condition-specific differences of 
co-expressed genes, we discovered genes with a phased character that mirrored 
our sorting scheme. The expression patterns of these genes are associated with 
fruit quality and ripening differences across the experiment. Functional 
profiles of these co-expressed genes are concordant with previous findings, and 
also offer new clues, and thus hypotheses, about genes involved in pear fruit 
quality, maturity, and ripening. This work may lead to new tools for enhanced 
postharvest management based on activity of gene co-expression modules, rather 
than individual genes. Further, our results indicate that modules may have 
utility within specific windows of time during postharvest management of 
'd'Anjou' pear.

Copyright © 2021 Honaas, Hargarten, Hadish, Ficklin, Serra, Musacchi, Wafula, 
Mattheis, dePamphilis and Rudell.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2021.609684
PMCID: PMC8243007
PMID: 34220875

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


944. Front Genet. 2021 Jun 17;12:665927. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2021.665927.
eCollection  2021.

Missing Nurse Bees-Early Transcriptomic Switch From Nurse Bee to Forager Induced 
by Sublethal Imidacloprid.

Chen YR(1), Tzeng DTW(2), Ting C(1), Hsu PS(3), Wu TH(3), Zhong S(2), Yang 
EC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)School of Life Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, 
China.
(3)Miaoli District Agricultural Research and Extension Station, Council of 
Agriculture, Executive Yuan, Gongguan, Taiwan.

The environmental residue/sublethal doses of neonicotinoid insecticides are 
believed to generate a negative impact on pollinators, including honey bees. 
Here we report our recent investigation on how imidacloprid, one of the major 
neonicotinoids, affects worker bees by profiling the transcriptomes of various 
ages of bees exposed to different doses of imidacloprid during the larval stage. 
The results show that imidacloprid treatments during the larval stage severely 
altered the gene expression profiles and may induce precocious foraging. 
Differential expression of foraging regulators was found in 14-day-old treated 
adults. A high transcriptome similarity between larvae-treated 14-day-old adults 
and 20-day-old controls was also observed, and the similarity was positively 
correlated with the dose of imidacloprid. One parts per billion (ppb) of 
imidacloprid was sufficient to generate a long-term impact on the bee's gene 
expression as severe as with 50 ppb imidacloprid. The disappearance of nurse 
bees may be driven not only by the hive member constitution but also by the 
neonicotinoid-induced precocious foraging behavior.

Copyright © 2021 Chen, Tzeng, Ting, Hsu, Wu, Zhong and Yang.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2021.665927
PMCID: PMC8248817
PMID: 34220942

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


945. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2021 Jun 15;2021:6613798. doi: 
10.1155/2021/6613798. eCollection 2021.

Exploring Heart Rate Variability as a Biomedical Diagnostic Tool for the 
Disympathetic Dimension of Eight-Constitution Medicine.

Kang H(1)(2), Walsh S(1), Oliver B(1)(3), Royce T(4), Cho BJ(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, University of Technology Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(2)Sage Acupuncture, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(3)Woolcock Institute of Medical Research, The University of Sydney, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia.
(4)Graduate Research School, University of Technology Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(5)Chedam Hospital of Korean Medicine, Busan, Republic of Korea.
(6)Korean Medicine, Dong-Eui University, Busan, Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND: Eight-Constitution Medicine (ECM), an extension of Traditional 
Korean Medicine, divides the population into eight groups based on their 
physiological characteristics. ECM divides these eight groups into two larger 
groups based on autonomic reactivity: the Sympathicotonic group and the 
Vagotonic group (herein referred to as the Disympathetic Dimension). Heart Rate 
Variability (HRV) is a widely used biomedical tool to assess cardiac autonomic 
function. This raises the question of the utility of using HRV to correctly 
diagnose ECM constitutions.
METHODS: A systematic literature review was conducted to evaluate the 
correlation between HRV and constitutions in Korean Constitutional Medicine, 
including Eight-Constitution Medicine (ECM) and Sasang Constitution Medicine 
(SCM). The articles were obtained from both English (Scopus, PubMed, EMBASE, 
ProQuest, and Medline) and Korean databases (NDSL and RISS), in addition to 
Google Scholar, without date restriction. 20 studies met the inclusion criteria, 
and data were extracted against three aspects: (1) correlation between HRV and 
constitution, (2) HRV reporting and interpretation, and (3) extraneous factors 
that were controlled in the studies.
RESULTS: 386 articles were initially identified, which was reduced to n = 20 
studies which met the inclusion criteria. Of these, 19 were SCM studies and 1 
was an ECM study. Sample sizes varied from 10 to 8498 men and women, with an age 
range of 10-80 years. SCM studies explored HRV differences by constitution, 
measuring HRV at resting, with controlled breathing, before and after 
acupuncture stimulation, and by other interventions. SCM studies reported either 
no significant differences (HRV at resting or with controlled breathing studies) 
or conflicting data (HRV with acupuncture stimulation studies). The single ECM 
study measured HRV at resting and after acupuncture stimulation but reported no 
significant differences between the two groups of Sympathicotonia and Vagotonia.
CONCLUSIONS: Due to inconsistencies in study design, study population, and 
measures of HRV, there was no consistency in the data to support the use of HRV 
as a biomedical determinant of ECM constitutions.

Copyright © 2021 Hyonna Kang et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2021/6613798
PMCID: PMC8221872
PMID: 34221081

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


946. Surg Neurol Int. 2021 May 31;12:245. doi: 10.25259/SNI_275_2021. eCollection
 2021.

Imaging features of perineural and perivascular spread in rapidly progressive 
rhino-orbital-cerebral mucormycosis: A case report and brief review of the 
literature.

Galletta K(1), Alafaci C(2), D'Alcontres FS(3), Maria ME(1), Cavallaro M(1), 
Ricciardello G(1), Vinci S(1), Grasso G(4), Granata F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical, Dental Science and Morphological and Functional 
Images, Messina, Italy.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Morphological and Functional Imaging, 
Section of Neurosurgery, Messina, Italy.
(3)Department of Adult and Development Age Human Pathology "Gaetano Barresi," 
University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(4)Department of Biomedicine, Neurosciences and Advanced Diagnostics, Section of 
Neurosurgery, University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Rhinocerebral mucormycosis (ROCM) is an opportunistic fungal 
infection originating from the paranasal sinuses with extension to the brain. A 
delayed diagnosis can rapidly result in a poor prognosis. ROCM commonly affects 
patients with diabetes or immunocompromised states with a variable progression.
CASE DESCRIPTION: We report the case of a 59-year old patient with an untreated 
diabetes who developed a ROCM with rapidly progressive neurological symptoms. 
From the onset of sinus pain, nasal congestion, he rapidly developed facial 
swelling and masticatory dysfunction. The patient underwent sinus surgery which 
allowed Rhizopus oryzae to be isolated. Accordingly, a systemic therapy by 
intensive intravenous amphotericin B was started. Nevertheless, the infection 
rapidly resulted in bilateral cavernous sinuses thrombosis and occlusion of the 
left internal carotid artery providing the subsequent patient death.
CONCLUSION: Mucormycosis is a life-threatening fungal infection in diabetic 
and/or immunosuppressed patients. Our case demonstrates the three main 
mechanisms for infection spreading that are direct, perineural, and perivascular 
diffusion. Clear identification of the main risk factors, proper assessment of 
clinical features, and radiological findings may improve the chance for an early 
diagnosis and patient survival.

Copyright: © 2021 Surgical Neurology International.

DOI: 10.25259/SNI_275_2021
PMCID: PMC8247725
PMID: 34221576

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


947. Cureus. 2021 May 29;13(5):e15322. doi: 10.7759/cureus.15322.

Melanoma Extension for Community Healthcare Outcomes: A Feasibility Study of 
Melanoma Screening Implementation in Primary Care Settings.

Becevic M(1), Smith E(1), Golzy M(2), Bysani R(1), Rosenfeld A(1), Mutrux ER(3), 
Hoffman K(4), Wallach E(3), McElroy JA(4), Edison K(1).

Author information:
(1)Dermatology, University of Missouri School of Medicine, Columbia, USA.
(2)Health Management and Informatics, University of Missouri School of Medicine, 
Columbia, USA.
(3)Missouri Telehealth Network, University of Missouri School of Medicine, 
Columbia, USA.
(4)Family Medicine, University of Missouri School of Medicine, Columbia, USA.

Introduction Melanoma incidence rates are rising faster than the rates of any 
other malignancy. As a major global public health concern, melanoma can be 
identified by a visual exam not requiring expensive invasive procedures. 
However, non-dermatologists lack specialized training and skills to identify 
high-risk patients and implement melanoma skin screenings during regular exams. 
Most patients from rural and underserved areas have inadequate access to 
specialty dermatologic care, which can potentially lead to later-stage melanomas 
and poor patient outcomes. The objective of this study was to identify 
facilitators and barriers to the implementation of risk surveys and melanoma 
skin screenings in primary care settings through live interactive education and 
the telementoring project - Melanoma ECHO (Extension for Community Healthcare 
Outcomes).  Methods This cross-sectional study was designed with theoretical 
concepts from dissemination and implementation research. Monthly Melanoma ECHO 
sessions were integrated into an ongoing Dermatology ECHO at the University of 
Missouri, Columbia, Missouri, USA, from April 2018 to February 2019. Ten primary 
care providers, medical doctors/doctors of osteopathic medicine (MDs/DOs), nurse 
practitioners (NPs), and physician assistants (PAs), from across Missouri 
participated. Eleven virtual monthly melanoma-related didactics and case-based 
discussions were provided to participants. Information regarding risk factors, 
risk surveys, and screening techniques was provided. Ongoing telementoring and 
guidance were also provided for de-identified real-life patient cases. The main 
outcomes and measures of the study were to identify the facilitators and 
barriers of risk survey and melanoma skin screenings in primary care settings 
and to quantify the number of high-risk patients identified by participating 
providers and the number of new melanomas detected by visual exams during the 
study period. Results The primary reason why six out of 10 providers reported 
participation in Melanoma ECHO was that implementing melanoma skin screenings in 
their practice was made easier as it increased their confidence. Nine providers 
reported increased knowledge, and eight cited professional networking as other 
facilitators. The main perceived barrier to melanoma skin screening was lack of 
administrative and nursing support, and six providers indicated that lack of 
time to incorporate skin exams was also a barrier. Combined, ten participants 
reported identifying 976 high-risk patients during the study period and 
detecting 36 new melanomas. Discussion and conclusion Our findings indicate that 
primary care providers may benefit from attending regularly scheduled and 
focused specialized telementoring sessions, such as Melanoma ECHO. Ongoing 
support from specialists may help providers practicing in rural and isolated 
areas with the successful integration of risk surveys and melanoma skin 
screenings in primary care settings. Further Melanoma ECHO sessions with a more 
diverse group of primary care providers are needed to better understand the 
generalizability of the results.

Copyright © 2021, Becevic et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.15322
PMCID: PMC8240489
PMID: 34221770

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


948. Results Phys. 2021 Aug;27:104495. doi: 10.1016/j.rinp.2021.104495. Epub 2021
Jun  26.

Time series forecasting of new cases and new deaths rate for COVID-19 using deep 
learning methods.

Ayoobi N(1), Sharifrazi D(2), Alizadehsani R(3), Shoeibi A(4)(5), Gorriz JM(6), 
Moosaei H(7), Khosravi A(3), Nahavandi S(3), Gholamzadeh Chofreh A(8), Goni 
FA(9), Klemeš JJ(8), Mosavi A(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, Savitribai Phule Pune University, Pune 411007, 
India.
(2)Department of Computer Engineering, School of Technical and Engineering, 
Shiraz Branch, Islamic Azad University, Shiraz, Iran.
(3)Institute for Intelligent Systems Research and Innovation (IISRI), Deakin 
University, Waurn Ponds, VIC 3217, Australia.
(4)Computer Engineering Department, Ferdowsi University of Mashhad, Mashhad, 
Iran.
(5)Faculty of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Biomedical Data Acquisition 
Lab, K. N. Toosi University of Technology, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Signal Theory, Networking and Communications, Universidad de 
Granada, Spain.
(7)Department of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, University of Bojnord, Iran.
(8)Sustainable Process Integration Laboratory - SPIL, NETME Centre, Faculty of 
Mechanical Engineering, Brno University of Technology - VUT Brno, Technická 
2896/2, 616 69 Brno, Czech Republic.
(9)Department of Management, Faculty of Business and Management, Brno University 
of Technology - VUT Brno, Kolejní 2906/4, 612 00 Brno, Czech Republic.
(10)John von Neumann Faculty of Informatics, Obuda University, 1034 Budapest, 
Hungary.
(11)School of Economics and Business, Norwegian University of Life Sciences, 
1430 Ås, Norway.

The first known case of Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) was identified in 
December 2019. It has spread worldwide, leading to an ongoing pandemic, imposed 
restrictions and costs to many countries. Predicting the number of new cases and 
deaths during this period can be a useful step in predicting the costs and 
facilities required in the future. The purpose of this study is to predict new 
cases and deaths rate one, three and seven-day ahead during the next 100 days. 
The motivation for predicting every n days (instead of just every day) is the 
investigation of the possibility of computational cost reduction and still 
achieving reasonable performance. Such a scenario may be encountered in 
real-time forecasting of time series. Six different deep learning methods are 
examined on the data adopted from the WHO website. Three methods are LSTM, 
Convolutional LSTM, and GRU. The bidirectional extension is then considered for 
each method to forecast the rate of new cases and new deaths in Australia and 
Iran countries. This study is novel as it carries out a comprehensive evaluation 
of the aforementioned three deep learning methods and their bidirectional 
extensions to perform prediction on COVID-19 new cases and new death rate time 
series. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that Bi-GRU and 
Bi-Conv-LSTM models are used for prediction on COVID-19 new cases and new deaths 
time series. The evaluation of the methods is presented in the form of graphs 
and Friedman statistical test. The results show that the bidirectional models 
have lower errors than other models. A several error evaluation metrics are 
presented to compare all models, and finally, the superiority of bidirectional 
methods is determined. This research could be useful for organisations working 
against COVID-19 and determining their long-term plans.

© 2021 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rinp.2021.104495
PMCID: PMC8233414
PMID: 34221854

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


949. J Diabetes Metab Disord. 2020 Oct 20;20(1):825-829. doi: 
10.1007/s40200-020-00654-6. eCollection 2021 Jun.

Epidemiologic pattern of cancers in Iran; current knowledge and future 
perspective.

Mohammadi E(1), Aminorroaya A(1)(2), Fattahi N(1), Azadnajafabad S(1), Rezaei 
N(1), Farzi Y(1), Naderimagham S(1), Rezaei N(1)(3), Larijani B(3), Farzadfar 
F(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Non-Communicable Diseases Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Population Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, No. 10, 
Al-e-Ahmad and Chamran Highway intersection, Tehran, 1411713137 Iran.
(2)Universal Scientific Education and Research Network, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Clinical Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.

Iran is a developing country facing demographic transition. Cancers are among 
the major non-communicable disorders with remarkable budern on the health-care 
governing systems. Extended life expectancy of Iranian population, change in 
living style, as well as promoted diagnostic and treatment methods have resulted 
into significant malignancies emergence and detection. Understanding the trend 
of this epidemiologic transition is required for proper allotment of resources. 
In this manuscript, overall epidemiologic pattern of cancers and their burden 
transition is reviewed. In addition, more concerning neoplasia 
(gastrointestinal, breast, thyroid, urologic, and respiratory system cancers) 
are reviewed in more details.

© Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s40200-020-00654-6
PMCID: PMC8212225
PMID: 34222092

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestNo conflict of interest or 
competing interest is declared by the authors.


950. JAC Antimicrob Resist. 2021 Jun 15;3(Suppl 1):i5-i16. doi: 
10.1093/jacamr/dlab052. eCollection 2021 Jun.

Antibiotic resistance during and beyond COVID-19.

Livermore DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, Norwich, Norfolk NR4 7TJ, 
UK.

Erratum in
    JAC Antimicrob Resist. 2021 Aug 28;3(3):dlab109.

Antibiotics underpin the 'modern medicine' that has increased life expectancy, 
leading to societies with sizeable vulnerable elderly populations who have 
suffered disproportionately during the current COVID-19 pandemic. Governments 
have responded by shuttering economies, limiting social interactions and 
refocusing healthcare. There are implications for antibiotic resistance both 
during and after these events. During spring 2020, COVID-19-stressed ICUs 
relaxed stewardship, perhaps promoting resistance. Counterpoised to this, more 
citizens died at home and total hospital antibiotic use declined, reducing 
selection pressure. Restricted travel and social distancing potentially reduced 
community import and transmission of resistant bacteria, though hard data are 
lacking. The future depends on the vaccines now being deployed. Unequivocal 
vaccine success should allow a swift return to normality. Vaccine failure 
followed by extended and successful non-pharmaceutical suppression may lead to 
the same point, but only after some delay, and with indefinite travel 
restrictions; sustainability is doubtful. Alternatively, failure of vaccines and 
control measures may prompt acceptance that we must live with the virus, as in 
the prolonged 1889-94 'influenza' (or coronavirus OC43) pandemic. Vaccine 
failure scenarios, particularly those accepting 'learning to live with the 
virus', favour increased outpatient management of non-COVID-19 infections using 
oral and long t ½ antibiotics. Ultimately, all models-except those envisaging 
societal collapse-suggest that COVID-19 will be controlled and that hospitals 
will revert to pre-2020 patterns with a large backlog of non-COVID-19 patients 
awaiting treatment. Clearing this will increase workloads, stresses, nosocomial 
infections, antibiotic use and resistance. New antibiotics, including 
cefiderocol, are part of the answer.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1093/jacamr/dlab052
PMCID: PMC8210049
PMID: 34223149


951. Resusc Plus. 2020 May 21;1-2:100004. doi: 10.1016/j.resplu.2020.100004. 
eCollection 2020 Mar-Jun.

Anticipatory manual defibrillator charging during advanced life support: A 
scoping review.

Otto Q(1)(2), Musiol S(1), Deakin CD(3), Morley P(4)(5), Soar J(2).

Author information:
(1)Severn Deanery, Bristol, UK.
(2)Intensive Care Unit, North Bristol NHS Trust, Bristol, UK.
(3)University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust, Southampton, UK.
(4)The Royal Melbourne Hospital, Victoria, Australia.
(5)The University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Some resuscitation services advocate or teach routine manual 
defibrillator charging prior to a rhythm check during cardiopulmonary 
resuscitation.
OBJECTIVES: We aimed to review the evidence for anticipatory defibrillator 
charging compared with charging after a shockable rhythm is confirmed.
METHODS: This scoping review was performed according to a specific 
methodological framework and the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic 
reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews. Grey literature was 
also reviewed using similar methodology and included in the results.
RESULTS: There are no randomized clinical trials studying anticipatory manual 
defibrillator charging. The limited available data does not address critical or 
important patient outcomes such as defibrillation success, return of spontaneous 
circulation, survival to hospital discharge or neurological outcomes. Evidence 
primarily from manikin studies and the grey literature suggests that 
anticipatory charging is feasible, safe, and can reduce the total pause duration 
during the period of chest compression between rhythm checks, but can increase 
the pre-shock pause and total peri-shock pause duration.
CONCLUSIONS: Anticipatory manual defibrillator charging appears to be feasible 
in the clinical setting, although its impact on clinical outcomes is uncertain. 
Future studies of anticipatory charging should focus on clinical outcomes.

© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.resplu.2020.100004
PMCID: PMC8244298
PMID: 34223291

Conflict of interest statement: QO None declared. SM None declared. CD 
Defibrillation domain lead, ILCOR. Trustee, RCUK. PM Chair of Australian 
Resuscitation Council. JS Chair of ILCOR ALS Task Force. Chair of the European 
Resuscitation Council ALS Science Committee. Executive committee, RCUK.


952. Resusc Plus. 2020 Dec 25;5:100059. doi: 10.1016/j.resplu.2020.100059. 
eCollection 2021 Mar.

Use of briefing and debriefing in neonatal resuscitation, a scoping review.

Fawke J(1), Stave C(2), Yamada N(3).

Author information:
(1)University Hospitals Leicester NHS Trust, Leicester, UK.
(2)Stanford University Library, CA, USA.
(3)Stanford University School of Medicine, Lucile Packard Children's Hospital, 
CA, USA.

AIM: To review the literature on briefing and debriefing in neonatal 
resuscitation using International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation (ILCOR) 
methodology to see if a formal systematic review is justified.
METHODS: This scoping review was undertaken by an ILCOR Newborn Life Support 
scoping review team and guided by the ILCOR methodological framework and the 
Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for 
scoping reviews (PRISMA-ScR). Studies were eligible for inclusion if they were 
peer-reviewed, compared briefing/debriefing of healthcare professionals who had 
completed a neonatal resuscitation or simulated resuscitation and reported 
outcomes for infants, families or staff. PubMed, Embase, Cochrane, and Web of 
Science databases were searched.
RESULTS: This review included four studies that reported on three 
briefing/debriefing interventions: video debriefing, the use of checklists with 
a briefing/debriefing component and rapid cycle deliberate practice. Video 
debriefing was associated with improvements in the process of care and adherence 
to resuscitation guidelines. Use of checklists was associated with improvements 
in short term clinical outcomes and a reduction in communication problems. Rapid 
cycle deliberate practice may lead to short but not sustained improvements in 
algorithm compliance and timely completion of resuscitation steps.
CONCLUSION: This scoping review did not identify sufficient new evidence to 
justify conducting new systematic reviews or review of current resuscitation 
guidelines. Improvements in the process of care, short term clinical outcomes 
and reduction in communication problems were associated with briefing/debriefing 
supported by video, checklists or rapid, cycle deliberate practice. It 
highlights knowledge gaps, including the need to consider briefing/debriefing 
separately from other interventions, the effect of briefing/debriefing on short- 
and long-term clinical outcomes and the effect of rapid cycle deliberate 
practice on resuscitation training.

© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.resplu.2020.100059
PMCID: PMC8244473
PMID: 34223331


953. Community Dent Health. 2021 Aug 31;38(3):182-186. doi: 
10.1922/CDH_00004Oozawa05.

Professional dental care provision systems for persons with disabilities by 
prefecture in Japan.

Oozawa K(1), Okawa Y(2), Hirata S(1), Tashiro M(1), Taniguchi K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Dentistry, Tokyo Dental College, Japan.
(2)Department of Dental Hygiene, Faculty of Health Care Science, Chiba 
Prefectural University of Health Sciences, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: The number of persons with disabilities has increased and aged. 
Although it is important to maintain good oral health to extend healthy life 
expectancy, it is difficult for such people. This study aimed to analyze 
regional disparities in dental care provision systems for disabled people and to 
propose measures for the establishment of an appropriate system.
BASIC RESEARCH DESIGN: To examine regional disparities in dental care provision 
systems for persons with disabilities, the number of practicing dentists and 
dental clinics per 100,000 population, dentists certified by the Japanese 
Society for Disability and Oral Health, and institutions with certified dentists 
per 100,000 disabled persons for each prefecture were calculated. The Gini 
coefficient of each was also calculated to visualize and analyze regional 
disparities.
RESULT: The Gini coefficients were 0.09 and 0.07 for practicing dentists and 
dental clinics and 0.32 and 0.28 for the certified dentists and institutions 
with the certified dentists, respectively. Dental institutions for the disabled 
abounded in the three metropolitan areas: Tokyo, Aichi, and Osaka, and their 
density tended to be lower in northern and southern Japan. In prefectures with 
few such institutions, there was no correlation between the number of 
institutions and prefectural residents' income, and some prefectures had similar 
incomes but had many institutions.
CONCLUSION: The distribution of dental care to the disabled is highly uneven in 
Japan, therefore, a system needs to be established to address this issue.

Copyright© 2021 Dennis Barber Ltd.

DOI: 10.1922/CDH_00004Oozawa05
PMID: 34223715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Epidemiology. 2021 Sep 1;32(5):721-730. doi: 10.1097/EDE.0000000000001386.

Union Burying Ground: Mortality, Mortality Inequities, and Sinking Labor Union 
Membership in the United States.

Eisenberg-Guyot J(1)(2), Mooney SJ(2)(3), Barrington WE(2)(4), Hajat A(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health, 
Columbia University, New York, NY.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA.
(3)Harborview Injury Prevention & Research Center, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA.
(4)Department of Psychosocial and Community Health, School of Nursing, 
University of Washington, Seattle, WA.

BACKGROUND: Over the last several decades in the United States, socioeconomic 
life-expectancy inequities have increased 1-2 years. Declining labor-union 
density has fueled growing income inequities across classes and exacerbated 
racial income inequities. Using Panel Study of Income Dynamics (PSID) data, we 
examined the longitudinal union-mortality relationship and estimated whether 
declining union density has also exacerbated mortality inequities.
