
Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Microbes and Functional Genomics, Jiangsu 
Engineering and Technology Research Center for Industrialization of Microbial 
Resources, College of Life Sciences, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing 210023, 
Jiangsu Province China.
(2)China Key Laboratory of Light Industry Functional Yeast, Three Gorges 
University, Yichang, 443000, Hubei Province China.

Abundant gene clusters of natural products are observed in the endophytic fungus 
Phomopsis liquidambaris; however, most of them are silent. Herein, a 
plug-and-play DNA assembly tool has been applied for flavonoid synthesis in P. 
liquidambaris. A shuttle plasmid was constructed based on S. cerevisiae, E. 
coli, and P. liquidambaris with screening markers URA, Amp, and hygR, 
respectively. Each fragment or cassette was successively assembled by overlap 
extension PCR with at least 40-50 bp homologous arms in S. cerevisiae for 
generating a new vector. Seven native promoters were screened by the DNA 
assembly based on the fluorescence intensity of the mCherry reporter gene in P. 
liquidambaris, and two of them were new promoters. The key enzyme chalcone 
synthase was the limiting step of the pathway. The naringenin and kaempferol 
pathways were refactored and activated with the titers of naringenin and 
kaempferol of 121.53 mg/L and 75.38 mg/L in P. liquidambaris using fed-batch 
fermentation, respectively. This study will be efficient and helpful for the 
biosynthesis of secondary metabolites.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.1c00205
PMID: 34251173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Demography. 2021 Aug 1;58(4):1525-1546. doi: 10.1215/00703370-9368990.

Estimating Adult Death Rates From Sibling Histories: A Network Approach.

Feehan DM(1), Borges GM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Demography, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA.
(2)Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil.

Hundreds of millions of people live in countries that do not have complete death 
registration systems, meaning that most deaths are not recorded and that 
critical quantities, such as life expectancy, cannot be directly measured. The 
sibling survival method is a leading approach to estimating adult mortality in 
the absence of death registration. The idea is to ask survey respondents to 
enumerate their siblings and to report about their survival status. In many 
countries and periods, sibling survival data are the only nationally 
representative source of information about adult mortality. Although a vast 
amount of sibling survival data has been collected, important methodological 
questions about the method remain unresolved. To help make progress on this 
issue, we propose reframing the sibling survival method as a network sampling 
problem. This approach enables a formal derivation of statistical estimators for 
sibling survival data. Our derivation clarifies the precise conditions that 
sibling history estimates rely on, leads to internal consistency checks that can 
help assess data and reporting quality, and reveals important quantities that 
could potentially be measured to relax assumptions in the future. We introduce 
the R package siblingsurvival, which implements the methods we describe.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1215/00703370-9368990
PMID: 34251434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Orv Hetil. 2021 Jul 11;162(28):1129-1136. doi: 10.1556/650.2021.32115.

[Pregnancy in women with cystic fibrosis: 14 case reports and literature 
review].

[Article in Hungarian]

Ságodi L(1), Sólyom E(2), Almási A(2), Csiszér E(3), Nagy G(4).

Author information:
(1)1 Miskolci Egyetem, Egészségügyi Kar, Preventív Egészségtudományi Tanszék, 
Miskolc, Adler Károly út 6., 3524.
(2)2 Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén Megyei Központi Kórház és Egyetemi Oktatókórház, 
Velkey László Gyermekegészségügyi Központ, Miskolc.
(3)3 Országos Korányi Pulmonológiai Intézet és Semmelweis Egyetem, Pulmonológiai 
Klinika, Budapest.
(4)4 Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén Megyei Központi Kórház és Egyetemi Oktatókórház, 
Szülészeti és Nőgyógyászati Osztály, Miskolc.

Összefoglaló. A cystás fibrosisban szenvedő betegek várható élettartama 
jelentősen megnőtt az utóbbi évtizedben, egyre több beteg képes saját gyermeket 
vállalni. Célunk a cystás fibrosisban szenvedő várandós nők perinatalis és anyai 
történéseinek felmérése saját eseteink és az irodalmi adatok alapján. 14, cystás 
fibrosisban szenvedő nő 16 várandósságáról számolunk be. Rögzítettük a 
várandósok életkorát, testtömegét, testmagasságát, testtömegindexét, 
légzésfunkciós értékeit a graviditás kezdetén és végén. Az anyai átlagéletkor 
szüléskor 21,6 (18-25) év volt. Az anyák graviditásának kezdetén a testmagasság 
átlaga 162 (150-175) cm, a testtömeg átlaga 57,6 (42-72) kg, a testtömegindex 
átlaga 21,4 (19,1-23,2) kg/m2 volt. A graviditás végén a testtömeg átlaga 62 
(39-76) kg, a testtömegindex átlaga 23,6 (21,3-24,1) kg/m2 volt. A graviditás 
alatti súlygyarapodás átlaga 8 (1,5-21,5) kg volt. A légzésfunkciós értékek a 
graviditás kezdetén 2 betegnél voltak beszűkültek. A graviditás alatt még 2 
beteg légzésfunkciós értékei csökkentek. A sikeres graviditások száma 13 volt. 1 
anya kétszer szült. A koraszülések száma 1 volt. A várandósság átlagosan a 38. 
(34-40.) gestatiós hét után 7 esetben császármetszéssel, 6 esetben hüvelyi 
szüléssel fejeződött be. A vetélések száma 3 volt. Az Apgar-pontszám minden 
esetben normális volt. 13 gyermek közül 11-nél a verejtékteszt nem volt 
emelkedett. 2 gyermeknél magas verejtékértékek voltak, egyikük 
c.1521_1523delCTT-heterozigóta, a másiknál génmutációt nem tudtunk igazolni. A 
cystás fibrosisban szenvedő nők általában jól tolerálják a várandósságot az 
esetek többségében. A kórosan beszűkült tüdőfunkcióval, alacsony tápláltsági 
állapottal és cukorbetegséggel rendelkező nők nagyobb valószínűséggel 
számíthatnak káros következményekre. Az újszülöttek prognózisa általában jó, de 
számítani kell a koraszülés és a kis súllyal születés gyakoribb előfordulására. 
Ideális esetben a várandósságot előzetes tanácsadás útján kell megtervezni, és 
speciális cystás fibrosis csoportnak kell a várandósok ellátását figyelemmel 
kísérni, ideértve a cystás fibrosis kezelésében jártas szülészeket is. Kisszámú 
saját adatunk retrospektív elemzése megerősíti az irodalmi adatok tanúságait. 
Orv Hetil. 2021; 162(28): 1129-1136. Summary. The life expectancy of patients 
with cystic fibrosis has increased significantly in the last decade, with more 
and more patients being able to have their own children. The aim of our study 
was to assess the perinatal and maternal outcome of pregnant women with cystic 
fibrosis based on our own cases and literature data. We report 16 pregnancies in 
14 women with cystic fibrosis. We recorded the age, body weight, height, body 
mass index, and respiratory function values of pregnant women at the beginning 
and end of pregnancy. The mean maternal age at childbirth was 21.6 (18-25) 
years. At the beginning of maternal pregnancy, the mean height was 162 (150-175) 
cm, the mean body weight was 57.6 (42-72) kg, and the mean body mass index was 
21.4 (19.1-23.2) kg/m2. At the end of pregnancy, the mean body weight was 62 
(39-76) kg and the mean body mass index was 23.6 (21.3-24.1) kg/m2. The weight 
gain under pregnancy was mean 8 (1.5-21.5) kg. The respiratory function values 
at the onset of pregnancy were narrowed in 2 patients. During pregnancy, the 
respiratory function values of 2 more patients decreased. The number of 
successful gestations was 13. A mother gave birth twice. The number of premature 
births was one. The pregnancy after the mean 38. (34-40.) gestational week was 
completed in 7 cases by cesarean section and in 6 cases by vaginal delivery. The 
number of miscarriages was 3. The Apgar score was normal in all cases. In 11 of 
13 children, the sweat test was not elevated. 2 children had high sweat values, 
one of them is heterozygous with c.1521_1523delCTT, the other could not prove a 
gene mutation. Women with cystic fibrosis generally tolerate pregnancy well, in 
most cases. Women with poor lung function, low nutritional status, and diabetes 
are more likely to expect adverse consequences. The outcome of the newborns is 
good in general, but a common occurrence of premature birth and low birth weight 
is to be expected. Ideally, pregnancy should be planned through prior counseling 
and the care of pregnant women should be monitored by a specialized cystic 
fibrosis team, including obstetricians experienced in the treatment of cystic 
fibrosis. A retrospective analysis of our own small-number data confirms the 
evidence from the literature data. Orv Hetil. 2021; 162(28): 1129-1136.

DOI: 10.1556/650.2021.32115
PMID: 34252045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. PLoS Biol. 2021 Jul 12;19(7):e3001302. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.3001302. 
eCollection 2021 Jul.

Proteasome activity contributes to pro-survival response upon mild mitochondrial 
stress in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Sladowska M(1)(2), Turek M(1)(2), Kim MJ(1)(2), Drabikowski K(3), Mussulini 
BHM(1), Mohanraj K(1), Serwa RA(1)(2), Topf U(2)(3), Chacinska A(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)ReMedy International Research Agenda Unit, University of Warsaw, Warsaw, 
Poland.
(2)Centre of New Technologies, University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, 
Poland.
(4)IMol Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland.

Defects in mitochondrial function activate compensatory responses in the cell. 
Mitochondrial stress that is caused by unfolded proteins inside the organelle 
induces a transcriptional response (termed the "mitochondrial unfolded protein 
response" [UPRmt]) that is mediated by activating transcription factor 
associated with stress 1 (ATFS-1). The UPRmt increases mitochondrial protein 
quality control. Mitochondrial dysfunction frequently causes defects in the 
import of proteins, resulting in the accumulation of mitochondrial proteins 
outside the organelle. In yeast, cells respond to mistargeted mitochondrial 
proteins by increasing activity of the proteasome in the cytosol (termed the 
"unfolded protein response activated by mistargeting of proteins" [UPRam]). The 
presence and relevance of this response in higher eukaryotes is unclear. Here, 
we demonstrate that defects in mitochondrial protein import in Caenorhabditis 
elegans lead to proteasome activation and life span extension. Both proteasome 
activation and life span prolongation partially depend on ATFS-1, despite its 
lack of influence on proteasomal gene transcription. Importantly, life span 
prolongation depends on the fully assembled proteasome. Our data provide a link 
between mitochondrial dysfunction and proteasomal activity and demonstrate its 
direct relevance to mechanisms that promote longevity.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.3001302
PMCID: PMC8274918
PMID: 34252079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


53. PLoS One. 2021 Jul 12;16(7):e0253893. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0253893. 
eCollection 2021.

Impact of assumptions on future costs, disutility and mortality in 
cost-effectiveness analysis; a model exploration.

Omidvari AH(1), Lansdorp-Vogelaar I(1), de Koning HJ(1), Meester RGS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: In cost-effectiveness analyses, the future costs, disutility and 
mortality from alternative causes of morbidity are often not completely taken 
into account. We explored the impact of different assumed values for each of 
these factors on the cost-effectiveness of screening for colorectal cancer (CRC) 
and esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC).
METHODS: Twenty different CRC screening strategies and two EAC screening 
strategies were evaluated using microsimulation. Average health-related 
expenses, disutility and mortality by age for the U.S. general population were 
estimated using surveys and lifetables. First, we evaluated strategies under 
default assumptions, with average mortality, and no accounting for 
health-related costs and disutility. Then, we varied costs, disutility and 
mortality between 100% and 150% of the estimated population averages, with 125% 
as the best estimate. Primary outcome was the incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained among efficient strategies.
RESULTS: The set of efficient strategies was robust to assumptions on future 
costs, disutility and mortality from other causes of morbidity. However, the 
incremental cost per QALY gained increased with higher assumed values. For 
example, for CRC, the ratio for the recommended strategy increased from $15,600 
with default assumptions, to $32,600 with average assumption levels, $61,100 
with 25% increased levels, and $111,100 with 50% increased levels. Similarly, 
for EAC, the incremental costs per QALY gained for the recommended EAC screening 
strategy increased from $106,300 with default assumptions to $198,300 with 50% 
increased assumptions. In sensitivity analyses without discounting or including 
only above-average expenses, the impact of assumptions was relatively smaller, 
but best estimates of the cost per QALY gained remained substantially higher 
than default estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: Assumptions on future costs, utility and mortality from other 
causes of morbidity substantially impact cost-effectiveness outcomes of cancer 
screening. More empiric evidence and consensus are needed to guide assumptions 
in future analyses.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0253893
PMCID: PMC8274850
PMID: 34252090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


54. Environ Pollut. 2021 Nov 1;288:117720. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2021.117720.
Epub  2021 Jul 5.

A common fungicide, Pristine®, impairs olfactory associative learning 
performance in honey bees (Apis mellifera).

DesJardins NS(1), Fisher A 2nd(2), Ozturk C(2), Fewell JH(2), DeGrandi-Hoffman 
G(3), Harrison JF(2), Smith BH(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, 427 E Tyler Mall, Tempe, 
AZ, 85287, USA. Electronic address: ndesjard@asu.edu.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, 427 E Tyler Mall, Tempe, 
AZ, 85287, USA.
(3)USDA ARS Carl Hayden Bee Research Center, 2000 East Allen Road, Tucson, AZ, 
85719, USA.

Although fungicides were previously considered to be safe for important 
agricultural pollinators such as honey bees, recent evidence has shown that they 
can cause a number of behavioral and physiological sublethal effects. Here, we 
focus on the fungicide Pristine® (active ingredients: 25.2% boscalid, 12.8% 
pyraclostrobin), which is sprayed during the blooming period on a variety of 
crops and is known to affect honey bee mitochondria at field-relevant levels. To 
date, no study has tested the effects of a field-relevant concentration of a 
fungicide on associative learning ability in honey bees. We tested whether 
chronic, colony-level exposure at field-relevant and higher concentrations of 
Pristine® impairs performance on the proboscis extension reflex (PER) paradigm, 
an associative learning task. Learning performance was reduced at higher 
field-relevant concentrations of Pristine®. The reductions in learning 
performance could not be explained by effects on hunger or motivation, as 
sucrose responsiveness was not affected by Pristine® exposure. To determine 
whether Pristine®'s negative effects on learning performance were mediated at a 
specific life stage, we conducted a cross-fostering experiment that exposed bees 
to the fungicide either only as larvae, only as adults, or during both stages. 
We found that exposure across the entire life was necessary to significantly 
reduce learning performance, although non-significant reductions occurred when 
bees were exposed during just one stage. Our study provides strong evidence that 
Pristine® has significant sublethal effects on learning performance. As 
associative learning is a necessary ability for foraging, our results raise 
concerns that Pristine® could impair foraging abilities and substantially weaken 
colony health.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2021.117720
PMID: 34252716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Health Place. 2021 Jul;70:102618. doi: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2021.102618.
Epub  2021 Jul 9.

We carry history within us: Anti-Black racism and the legacy of lynchings on 
life expectancy in the U.S. South.

Kihlström L(1), Kirby RS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of South Florida, 4202 E Fowler 
Avenue, Tampa, FL, 33620, United States; College of Public Health, University of 
South Florida, 13201 Bruce B Downs Blvd., Tampa, FL, 33612, United States. 
Electronic address: lkihlstrom@usf.edu.
(2)College of Public Health, University of South Florida, 13201 Bruce B Downs 
Blvd., Tampa, FL, 33612, United States. Electronic address: kirbyr@usf.edu.

The United States lags in life expectancy compared to most of the world's 
similarly wealthy nations, driven by pronounced regional disparities 
particularly between the South and the rest of the country. The U.S. South has a 
violent history of lynchings of Black Americans by White mobs after the ending 
of slavery and up to the Civil Rights Era. Building on critical race 
scholarship, the objective of this study was to determine whether there exists 
an association between historical lynchings and overall life expectancies in the 
U.S. South. We created a cross-sectional county-level data set with 1221 data 
points utilizing data from the Equal Justice Initiative and Robert Wood Johnson 
Foundation Country Health Rankings. The average life expectancy for 2019-2020 
was 76.1 years, ranging from 68.2 years to 90.2 years. Overall life expectancy 
was found to be highest (76.6) in counties with no recorded lynchings, and 
lowest (75.5) in counties with the most lynchings (p < .001). In the spatially 
enabled regression model, the history of lynching along with other covariates 
explained 57.1% of the variance in life expectancies across the study area. 
Counties with a history of lynchings also score lower compared to the reference 
group in various socioeconomic indicators, including median household incomes 
and high school graduation rates. The findings suggest that lynchings were 
pivotal in creating the social and physical environment affecting health 
outcomes in the U.S. South today. We call for further public health research 
which acknowledges and explores this form of violent and institutional 
anti-Black racism as foundational to the nation's regional health disparities.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2021.102618
PMID: 34252751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2022 Apr;166(4):662-668. doi: 
10.1177/01945998211026847. Epub 2021 Jul 13.

Cost-effectiveness Analysis of Submandibular Gland Preservation With 
Sialendoscopy for the Management of Sialolithiasis.

Acevedo JR(1), Hsu AC(2), Yu JC(3)(4), Rice DH(1), Kwon DI(1), Kung RW(1), Kokot 
NC(1).

Author information:
(1)Caruso Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(2)Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
California, USA.
(3)Leonard D. Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(4)School of Pharmacy, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
California, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of sialendoscopy with gland 
excision for the management of submandibular gland sialolithiasis.
STUDY DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis.
SETTING: Outpatient surgery centers.
METHODS: A Markov decision model compared the cost-effectiveness of 
sialendoscopy versus gland excision for managing submandibular gland 
sialolithiasis. Surgical outcome probabilities were found in the primary 
literature. The quality of life of patients was represented by health utilities, 
and costs were estimated from a third-party payer's perspective. The 
effectiveness of each intervention was measured in quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs). The incremental costs and effectiveness of each intervention were 
compared, and a willingness-to-pay ratio of $150,000 per QALY was considered 
cost-effective. One-way, multivariate, and probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
were performed to challenge model conclusions.
RESULTS: Over 10 years, sialendoscopy yielded 9.00 QALYs at an average cost of 
$8306, while gland excision produced 8.94 QALYs at an average cost of $6103. The 
ICER for sialendoscopy was $36,717 per QALY gained, making sialendoscopy 
cost-effective by our best estimates. The model was sensitive to the probability 
of success and the cost of sialendoscopy. Sialendoscopy must meet a 
probability-of-success threshold of 0.61 (61%) and cost ≤$11,996 to remain 
cost-effective. A Monte Carlo simulation revealed sialendoscopy to be 
cost-effective 60% of the time.
CONCLUSION: Sialendoscopy appears to be a cost-effective management strategy for 
sialolithiasis of the submandibular gland when certain thresholds are 
maintained. Further studies elucidating the clinical factors that determine 
successful sialendoscopy may be aided by these thresholds as well as future 
comparisons of novel technology.

DOI: 10.1177/01945998211026847
PMID: 34253114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Neurol Res. 2021 Nov;43(11):900-908. doi: 10.1080/01616412.2021.1943121. Epub
 2021 Jul 13.

21st Century Early Adult (55-74) Deaths from Brain-Disease-Deaths Compared to 
All Other Cause Mortality in the Major Western Countries - Exposing a Hidden 
Epidemic.

Pritchard C(1), Hansen L(2), Silk A(3), Rosenorn-Lanng E(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Social Sciences, Bournemouth University, Bournemouth, UK.
(2)Honorary Senior Lecturer, Dept of Psychiatry, University of Southampton, 
Bournemouth, UK.
(3)Fellow in Public Heath, Bournemouth, UK.
(4)Statistician Faculty of Health & Social Sciences, Bournemouth University UK, 
Bournemouth, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To examine early adult deaths (EAD) - people aged 55-74 due to brain 
disease deaths (BDD) compared to all other causes (AOC) in the 21st century in 
21 major Western countries (MWC).
METHOD: EAD are below MWCc average life expectancy. All mortality drawn from the 
latest WHO data. The three global BDD categories consist of mental and behaviour 
disorder, nervous diseases and Alzheimer and other dementias. Mortality rates 
per million are analysed for people 55-74 years and total age-standardised death 
rates (ASDR). BDD rates between 2000-2015 compared against AOC of deaths for EAD 
and ASDR. Confidence Intervals determine any significant difference AOC and BDD 
over the period 2000-15, plus an examination of EAD in six separate global 
mortality categories.
RESULTS: EAD: The separate BDD categories for EAD significantly positively 
correlated, validating their combination as BDD. Every country's AOC 55-74 rates 
fell substantially, but fourteen country's BDD rose substantially (>20%) and all 
MWC countries BDD rose significantly more than AOC. ASDR: All nations total AOC 
fell substantially, whereas seventeen BDD rates rose substantially and every 
country's BDD significantly increased compared to AOC deaths. Six other EAD 
mortalities, circulatory, cancer, respiratory, compared to BDD produced Odds 
Ratios ranging from 1:1.54 to 1:2.36 such were the marked differences over the 
period.
DISCUSSION: Positive news is that AOC are down across all investigated countries 
in the 21st century. However, the extent of the EAD rises in just 16 years 
indicates that these BDD conditions are starting earlier suggesting multiple 
interactive environmental factors impacting upon brain related diseases.

DOI: 10.1080/01616412.2021.1943121
PMID: 34253141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. BMC Pulm Med. 2021 Jul 12;21(1):225. doi: 10.1186/s12890-021-01599-z.

Rheological effects of hypertonic saline and sodium bicarbonate solutions on 
cystic fibrosis sputum in vitro.

Budai-Szűcs M(1), Berkó S(2), Kovács A(2), Jaikumpun P(3), Ambrus R(2), Halász 
A(4), Szabó-Révész P(2), Csányi E(2), Zsembery Á(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmaceutical Technology and Regulatory Affairs, University of 
Szeged, Szeged, Hungary. budai-szucs.maria@szte.hu.
(2)Institute of Pharmaceutical Technology and Regulatory Affairs, University of 
Szeged, Szeged, Hungary.
(3)Department of Oral Biology, Semmelweis University, Budapest, Hungary.
(4)National Korányi Institute for Pulmonology, Budapest, Hungary.

BACKGROUND: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a life-threatening multiorgan genetic 
disease, particularly affecting the lungs, where recurrent infections are the 
main cause of reduced life expectancy. In CF, mutations in the gene encoding the 
cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) protein impair 
transepithelial electrolyte and water transport, resulting in airway 
dehydration, and a thickening of the mucus associated with abnormal viscoelastic 
properties. Our aim was to develop a rheological method to assess the effects of 
hypertonic saline (NaCl) and NaHCO3 on CF sputum viscoelasticity in vitro, and 
to identify the critical steps in sample preparation and in the rheological 
measurements.
METHODS: Sputum samples were mixed with hypertonic salt solutions in vitro in a 
ratio of either 10:4 or 10:1. Distilled water was applied as a reference 
treatment. The rheological properties of sputum from CF patients, and the 
effects of these in vitro treatments, were studied with a rheometer at constant 
frequency and strain, followed by frequency sweep tests, where storage modulus 
(G'), loss modulus (G″) and loss factor were determined.
RESULTS: We identified three distinct categories of sputum: (i) highly elastic 
(G' > 100,000 Pa), (ii) elastic (100,000 Pa > G' > 1000 Pa), and (iii) 
viscoelastic (G' < 1000). At the higher additive ratio (10:4), all of the added 
solutions were found to significantly reduce the gel strength of the sputum, but 
the most pronounced changes were observed with NaHCO3 (p < 0.001). Samples with 
high elasticity exhibited the greatest changes while, for less elastic samples, 
a weakening of the gel structure was observed when they were treated with water 
or NaHCO3, but not with NaCl. For the viscoelastic samples, the additives did 
not cause significant changes in the parameters. When the lower additive ratio 
(10:1) was used, the mean values of the rheological parameters usually 
decreased, but the changes were not statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: Based on the rheological properties of the initial sputum samples, 
we can predict with some confidence the treatment efficacy of each of the 
alternative additives. The marked differences between the three categories 
suggest that it is advisable to evaluate each sample individually using a 
rheological approach such as that described here.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12890-021-01599-z
PMCID: PMC8276516
PMID: 34253193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


59. Epilepsia. 2021 Sep;62(9):2142-2150. doi: 10.1111/epi.17007. Epub 2021 Jul
13.

Long-term safety of adjunctive cenobamate in patients with uncontrolled focal 
seizures: Open-label extension of a randomized clinical study.

French JA(1), Chung SS(2), Krauss GL(3), Lee SK(4), Maciejowski M(5), Rosenfeld 
WE(6), Sperling MR(7), Kamin M(8).

Author information:
(1)New York University Langone Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, New York, New 
York, USA.
(2)Neuroscience Institute, Banner-University Medical Center, University of 
Arizona, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.
(3)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(4)Adult Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Seoul National University Hospital, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)NZOZ Diagnomed Clinical Research, Katowice, Poland.
(6)Comprehensive Epilepsy Care Center for Children and Adults, St. Louis, 
Missouri, USA.
(7)Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(8)SK Life Science, Paramus, New Jersey, USA.

OBJECTIVE: This study was undertaken to examine long-term (up to 7.8 years) 
retention rate, safety, and tolerability of the antiseizure medication (ASM) 
cenobamate as adjunctive treatment in the open-label extension (OLE) of study 
YKP3089C013 (C013; ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01397968).
METHODS: Patients who completed the 12-week, multicenter, multinational, 
double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled C013 study, which examined 
adjunctive cenobamate treatment of adults with uncontrolled focal seizures, were 
eligible to enroll in the OLE. During the OLE, dose adjustments of cenobamate 
and concomitant ASMs were allowed. Safety assessments included frequency of 
treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) and serious TEAEs, TEAE severity, and 
TEAEs leading to discontinuation. Probability of patient continuation in the OLE 
was examined using a Kaplan-Meier analysis.
RESULTS: One hundred forty-nine patients entered the OLE (median duration of 
cenobamate treatment = 6.25 years). As of the data cutoff, 57% of patients 
(85/149) remained in the OLE (median treatment duration = 6.8 years, range = 
6.4-7.8 years). The median modal daily cenobamate dose was 200 mg (range = 
50-400 mg). The probability of treatment continuation at 1-6 years of cenobamate 
treatment was 73%, 67%, 63%, 61%, 60%, and 59%, respectively. Among patients who 
continued at 1 year (n = 107), the probability of continuing at Years 2-5 was 
92%, 87%, 83%, and 82%. The most common discontinuation reasons were patient 
withdrawal (19.5%, 29/149), adverse event (10.1%, 15/149), and lack of efficacy 
(5.4%, 8/149). TEAEs leading to discontinuation in 1% or more of patients were 
fatigue (1.3%, 2/149), ataxia (1.3%, 2/149), and memory impairment or amnesia 
(1.3%, 2/149). Dizziness (32.9%, 49/149), headache (26.8%, 40/149), and 
somnolence (21.5%, 32/149) were the most frequently reported TEAEs and were 
primarily mild or moderate in severity.
SIGNIFICANCE: Long-term retention in the C013 OLE study demonstrated sustained 
safety and tolerability of adjunctive cenobamate treatment up to 7.8 years in 
adults with treatment-resistant focal seizures taking one to three ASMs.

© 2021 The Authors. Epilepsia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of 
International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.17007
PMCID: PMC8456960
PMID: 34254673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.A.F.: Salary support to New York University: 
Epilepsy Foundation; consultant/advisor (on behalf of the Epilepsy Study 
Consortium): Adamas, Aeonian/Aeovian, Anavex, Arkin Holdings, Arvelle, Athenen 
Therapeutics/Carnot Pharma, Baergic, Biogen, BioXcel, Cavion, Cerebral, Cerevel, 
Crossject, CuroNZ, Eisai, Eliem, Encoded, Engage, Engrail, Epiminder, Equilibre, 
Fortress, Greenwich, GW Pharma, Janssen, Knopp, Lundbeck, Marinus, Mend 
Neuroscience, Merck, NeuCyte, Neurocrine, Otsuka, Ovid, Passage, Praxis, Redpin, 
Sage, SK Life Science, Sofinnova, Stoke, Supernus, Synergia Medical, Takeda, UCB 
Pharma, West Therapeutic Development, Xenon, Xeris, Zogenix, Zynerba; research 
support: Epilepsy Research Foundation, Epilepsy Study Consortium (funded by 
Andrews Foundation, Eisai, Engage, Lundbeck, Pfizer, SK Life Science, Sunovion, 
UCB Pharma, Vogelstein Foundation), Epilepsy Study Consortium/Epilepsy 
Foundation (funded by Engage, Neurelis, SK Life Science, UCB Pharma), GW/One8 
Foundation/FACES, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke; 
editorial board: Lancet Neurology, Neurology Today; travel reimbursement: 
Arvelle, Biogen, Cerevel, Engage, Epilepsy Study Consortium, Epilepsy 
Foundation, Lundbeck, NeuCyte, Otsuka, Sage, UCB Pharma, Xenon, Zogenix. S.S.C.: 
Consultant/advisor: Adamas, Eisai, SK Life Science, UCB Pharma; speaker: Eisai, 
Greenwich Biosciences, Sunovion, UCB Pharma; research support: Engage, SK Life 
Science, UCB Pharma. G.L.K.: Consultant/advisor: Adamas, Eisai, Otsuka, Shire; 
research support: Biogen, SK Life Science, UCB Pharma, Upsher‐Smith. S.K.L.: 
Consultant/advisor: Eisai, SK Life Science, UCB Pharma. M.M.: Speaker: Biogen, 
Merck, Novartis, Roche; research support: Roche. W.E.R.: Consultant/advisor: SK 
Life Science; speaker: Eisai, Greenwich Biosciences (GW Pharmaceuticals), SK 
Life Science, Sunovion, UCB Pharma; research support: Greenwich Biosciences, 
Marinus, Medtronic, Neurelis, Ovid, SK Life Science, Takeda, UCB Pharma, 
Upsher‐Smith. M.R.S.: Consultant/advisor: Medtronic; speaker: Eisai, 
International Medical Press, Medscape, NeurologyLive, Projects in Knowledge; 
research support: Cavion, Cerevel, Eisai, Engage, Medtronic, Neurelis, SK Life 
Science, Takeda, UCB Pharma, Xenon. M.K.: Employee, SK Life Science. We confirm 
that we have read the Journal's position on issues involved in ethical 
publication and affirm that this report is consistent with those guidelines.


60. Radiology. 2021 Sep;300(3):594-604. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2021204321. Epub 2021
 Jul 13.

Active Surveillance Strategies for Low-Grade Prostate Cancer: Comparative 
Benefits and Cost-effectiveness.

Kang SK(1), Mali RD(1), Prabhu V(1), Ferket BS(1), Loeb S(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Departments of Radiology (S.K.K., R.D.M., V.P.), Population Health 
(S.K.K., S.L.), and Urology (S.L.), New York University Grossman School of 
Medicine, 660 First Ave, Room 333, New York, NY 10016; Department of Population 
Health Science and Policy, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 
(B.S.F.); and Manhattan VA Medical Center, New York, NY (S.L.).

Erratum in
    Radiology. 2021 Oct;301(1):E380.

Background Active surveillance (AS) is the recommended treatment option for 
low-risk prostate cancer (PC). Surveillance varies in MRI, frequency of 
follow-up, and the Prostate Imaging Reporting and Data System (PI-RADS) score 
that would repeat biopsy. Purpose To compare the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of AS strategies for low-risk PC with versus without MRI. 
Materials and Methods This study developed a mathematical model to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of surveillance strategies in a simulation of men with a 
diagnosis of low-risk PC. The following strategies were compared: watchful 
waiting, prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and annual biopsy without MRI, and PSA 
testing and MRI with varied PI-RADS thresholds for biopsy. MRI strategies 
differed regarding scheduling and use of PI-RADS score of at least 3, or a 
PI-RADS score of at least 4 to indicate the need for biopsy. Life-years, 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
were calculated by using microsimulation. Sensitivity analysis was used to 
assess the impact of varying parameter values on results. Results For the base 
case of 60-year-old men, all strategies incorporating prostate MRI extended 
QALYs and life-years compared with watchful waiting and non-MRI strategies. 
Annual MRI strategies yielded 16.19 QALYs, annual biopsy with no MRI yielded 
16.14 QALYs, and watchful waiting yielded 15.94 QALYs. Annual MRI with PI-RADS 
score of at least 3 or of at least 4 as the biopsy threshold and annual MRI with 
biopsy even after MRI with negative findings offered similar QALYs and the same 
unadjusted life expectancy: 23.05 life-years. However, a PI-RADS score of at 
least 4 yielded 42% fewer lifetime biopsies. With a cost-effectiveness threshold 
of $100 000 per QALY, annual MRI with biopsy for lesions with PI-RADS scores of 
4 or greater was most cost-effective (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, 
$67 221 per QALY). Age, treatment type, risk of initial grade misclassification, 
and quality-of-life impact of procedural complications affected results. 
Conclusion The use of active surveillance (AS) with biopsy decisions guided by 
findings from annual MRI reduces the number of biopsies while preserving life 
expectancy and quality of life. Biopsy in lesions with PI-RADS scores of 4 or 
greater is likely the most cost-effective AS strategy for men with low-risk 
prostate cancer who are younger than 70 years. © RSNA, 2021 Online supplemental 
material is available for this article. An earlier incorrect version appeared 
online. This article was corrected on July 13, 2021.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2021204321
PMCID: PMC8409107
PMID: 34254851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures of Conflicts of Interest: S.K.K. 
Activities related to the present article: disclosed no relevant relationships. 
Activities not related to the present article: disclosed grant to author’s 
institution from the National Cancer Institute, AHRQ, and the Doris Duke 
Foundation; disclosed royalties from Wolters Kluwer. Other relationships: 
disclosed no relevant relationships. R.D.M. disclosed no relevant relationships. 
V.P. disclosed no relevant relationships. B.S.F. disclosed no relevant 
relationships. S.L. Activities related to the present article: disclosed no 
relevant relationships. Activities not related to the present article: disclosed 
stock/stock options from Gilead. Other relationships: disclosed no relevant 
relationships.61. Health Technol Assess. 2021 Jul;25(46):1-118. doi: 10.3310/hta25460.

Home environmental assessments and modification delivered by occupational 
therapists to reduce falls in people aged 65 years and over: the OTIS RCT.

Cockayne S(1), Pighills A(2)(3), Adamson J(1), Fairhurst C(1), Crossland S(4), 
Drummond A(5), Hewitt CE(1), Rodgers S(1), Ronaldson SJ(1), McCaffery J(1), 
Whiteside K(1), Scantlebury A(1), Robinson-Smith L(1), Cochrane A(1), Lamb 
SE(6), Boyes S(7), Gilbody S(1), Relton C(8), Torgerson DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)York Trials Unit, Department of Health Sciences, University of York, York, 
UK.
(2)Mackay Institute of Research and Innovation, Queensland Health, Mackay Base 
Hospital, Mackay, QLD, Australia.
(3)Division of Tropical Health and Medicine, James Cook University, Townsville, 
QLD, Australia.
(4)Leicestershire Partnership NHS Trust, Leicester, UK.
(5)School of Health Sciences, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.
(6)Institute of Health Research, College of Medicine and Health, University of 
Exeter, Exeter, UK.
(7)York Teaching Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, York, UK.
(8)Institute of Population Health Sciences, Queen Mary University of London, 
London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Falls and fall-related fractures are highly prevalent among older 
people and are a major contributor to morbidity and costs to individuals and 
society. Only one small pilot trial has evaluated the effectiveness of a home 
hazard assessment and environmental modification in the UK. This trial reported 
a reduction in falls as a secondary outcome, and no economic evaluation was 
undertaken. Therefore, the results need to be confirmed and a cost-effectiveness 
analysis needs to be undertaken.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a 
home hazard assessment and environmental modification delivered by occupational 
therapists for preventing falls among community-dwelling people aged ≥ 65 years 
who are at risk of falling, relative to usual care.
DESIGN: This was a pragmatic, multicentre, modified cohort randomised controlled 
trial with an economic evaluation and a qualitative study.
SETTING: Eight NHS trusts in primary and secondary care in England.
PARTICIPANTS: In total, 1331 participants were randomised (intervention group, 
n = 430; usual-care group, n = 901) via a secure, remote service. Blinding was 
not possible.
INTERVENTIONS: All participants received a falls prevention leaflet and routine 
care from their general practitioner. The intervention group were additionally 
offered one home environmental assessment and modifications recommended or 
provided to identify and manage personal fall-related hazards, delivered by an 
occupational therapist.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was the number of falls per 
participant during the 12 months from randomisation. The secondary outcomes were 
the proportion of fallers and multiple fallers, time to fall, fear of falling, 
fracture rate, health-related quality of life and cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: The primary analysis included all 1331 randomised participants and 
indicated weak evidence of a difference in fall rate between the two groups, 
with an increase in the intervention group relative to usual care (adjusted 
incidence rate ratio 1.17, 95% confidence interval 0.99 to 1.38; p = 0.07). A 
similar proportion of participants in the intervention group (57.0%) and the 
usual-care group (56.2%) reported at least one fall over 12 months. There were 
no differences in any of the secondary outcomes. The base-case 
cost-effectiveness analysis from an NHS and Personal Social Services perspective 
found that, on average per participant, the intervention was associated with 
additional costs (£18.78, 95% confidence interval £16.33 to £21.24), but was 
less effective (mean quality-adjusted life-year loss -0.0042, 95% confidence 
interval -0.0041 to -0.0043). Sensitivity analyses demonstrated uncertainty in 
these findings. No serious, related adverse events were reported. The 
intervention was largely delivered as intended, but recommendations were 
followed to a varying degree.
LIMITATIONS: Outcome data were self-reported by participants, which may have led 
to inaccuracies in the reported falls data.
CONCLUSIONS: We found no evidence that an occupational therapist-delivered home 
assessment and modification reduced falls in this population of 
community-dwelling participants aged ≥ 65 years deemed at risk of falling. The 
intervention was more expensive and less effective than usual care, and 
therefore it does not provide a cost-effective alternative to usual care.
FUTURE WORK: An evaluation of falls prevention advice in a higher-risk 
population, perhaps those previously hospitalised for a fall, or given by other 
professional staff could be justified.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN22202133.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research 
(NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in 
Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 25, No. 46. See the NIHR Journals Library 
website for further project information.

Plain Language Summary: Falling is a common problem among older people. In fact, 
up to half of people aged over 80 years fall each year, with most falls 
happening inside the home. Unfortunately, some falls cause serious injuries, 
such as broken bones. People often think that falls are part of getting older 
and that little can be done to stop them from falling. However, there are many 
ways to reduce falls. The Occupational Therapist Intervention Study (OTIS) 
explored whether or not a home assessment visit by an NHS occupational therapist 
could reduce falls among older people who are likely to be at risk of falling. 
In total, 1331 people aged 65 years or older living in England took part in the 
study. These people were all sent an Age UK leaflet about how to prevent falls, 
and 430 people were selected at random to receive a visit from an occupational 
therapist. The occupational therapist assessed their homes for hazards, such as 
slippery floors or poor lighting, and made suggestions for changes. We collected 
information from participants using monthly falls calendars and postal 
questionnaires to ask them about their falls, their quality of life, how often 
they used NHS services and how often they used paid care workers. We also asked 
them about whether they had had equipment and adaptations installed as a result 
of the assessments. We found that the home assessment visits did not reduce the 
number of falls people had or make any difference to participants’ quality of 
life. However, many of the recommendations made by the occupational therapists 
were not carried out. The home assessment visits by an occupational therapist 
were not good value for money.

DOI: 10.3310/hta25460
PMCID: PMC8287374
PMID: 34254934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. JMIR Form Res. 2021 Jul 12;5(7):e25285. doi: 10.2196/25285.

A Web-Based Social Network Tool (GENIE) for Supporting Self-management Among 
High Users of the Health Care System: Feasibility and Usability Study.

Valaitis R(1), Cleghorn L(2), Vassilev I(3), Rogers A(3), Ploeg J(1), Kothari 
A(4), Risdon C(2), Gillett J(5), Guenter D(2), Dolovich L(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(2)Department of Family Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(3)School of Health Sciences, University of Southampton, Southampton, United 
Kingdom.
(4)School of Health Studies, Western University, London, ON, Canada.
(5)Health Aging and Society, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Primary care providers are well positioned to foster self-management 
through linking patients to community-based health and social services (HSSs). 
This study evaluated a web-based tool-GENIE (Generating Engagement in Network 
Involvement)-to support the self-management of adults. GENIE empowers patients 
to leverage their personal social networks and increase their access to HSSs. 
GENIE maps patients' personal social networks, elicits preferences, and filters 
local HSSs from a community service directory based on patient's interests. 
Trained volunteers (an extension of the primary care team) conducted home visits 
and conducted surveys related to life and health goals in the context of the 
Health TAPESTRY (Teams Advancing Patient Experience: Strengthening Quality) 
program, in which the GENIE tool was implemented. GENIE reports were uploaded to 
an electronic medical record for care planning by the team.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to explore patients', volunteers', and clinicians' 
perceptions of the feasibility, usability, and perceived outcomes of GENIE-a 
tool for community-dwelling adults who are high users of the health care system.
METHODS: This study involved 2 primary care clinician focus groups and 1 
clinician interview (n=15), 1 volunteer focus group (n=3), patient telephone 
interviews (n=8), field observations that captured goal-action sequences to 
complete GENIE, and GENIE utilization statistics. The patients were enrolled in 
a primary care program-Health TAPESTRY-and Ontario's Health Links Program, which 
coordinates care for the highest users of the health care system. NVivo 11 (QSR 
International) was used to support qualitative data analyses related to 
feasibility and perceived outcomes, and descriptive statistics were used for 
quantitative data.
RESULTS: Most participants reported positive overall perceptions of GENIE. 
However, feasibility testing showed that participants had a partial 
understanding of the tool; volunteer facilitation was critical to support the 
implementation of GENIE; clinicians perceived their navigation ability as 
superior to that of GENIE supported by volunteers; and tool completion took 39 
minutes, which made the home visit too long for some. Usability challenges 
included difficulties completing some sections of the tool related to medical 
terminology and unclear instructions, limitations in the quality and quantity of 
HSSs results, and minor technological challenges. Almost all patients identified 
a community program or activity of interest. Half of the patients (4/8, 50%) 
followed up on HSSs and added new members to their network, whereas 1 
participant lost a member. Clinicians' strengthened their understanding of 
patients' personal social networks and needs, and patients felt less social 
isolation.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated the potential of GENIE, when supported by 
volunteers, to expand patients' social networks and link them to relevant HSSs. 
Volunteers require training to implement GENIE for self-management support, 
which may help overcome the time limitations faced by primary care clinicians. 
Refining the filtering capability of GENIE to address adults' needs may improve 
primary care providers' confidence in using such tools.

©Ruta Valaitis, Laura Cleghorn, Ivaylo Vassilev, Anne Rogers, Jenny Ploeg, Anita 
Kothari, Cathy Risdon, James Gillett, Dale Guenter, Lisa Dolovich. Originally 
published in JMIR Formative Research (https://formative.jmir.org), 12.07.2021.

DOI: 10.2196/25285
PMCID: PMC8315309
PMID: 34255654

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


63. Am J Primatol. 2021 Nov;83(11):e23299. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23299. Epub 2021 Jul
13.

Comparative neuropathology in aging primates: A perspective.

Freire-Cobo C(1), Edler MK(2)(3)(4), Varghese M(1), Munger E(2)(3)(4), Laffey 
J(1), Raia S(1), In SS(1), Wicinski B(1), Medalla M(5), Perez SE(6), Mufson 
EJ(6)(7), Erwin JM(8), Guevara EE(8)(9), Sherwood CC(8), Luebke JI(5), Lacreuse 
A(10), Raghanti MA(2)(3)(4), Hof PR(1)(11).

Author information:
(1)Nash Family Department of Neuroscience and Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn 
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York, USA.
(2)School of Biomedical Sciences, Kent State University, Kent, Ohio, USA.
(3)Department of Anthropology, Kent State University, Kent, Ohio, USA.
(4)Brain Health Research Institute, Kent State University, Kent, Ohio, USA.
(5)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Center for Systems Neuroscience, 
Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(6)Department of Neurobiology, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, Arizona, 
USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, Arizona, 
USA.
(8)Department of Anthropology, Center for the Advanced Study of Human 
Paleobiology, The George Washington University, Washington, District of 
Columbia, USA.
(9)Department of Evolutionary Anthropology, Duke University, Durham, North 
Carolina, USA.
(10)Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(11)Ronald M. Loeb Center for Alzheimer's Disease, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, New York, USA.

While humans exhibit a significant degree of neuropathological changes 
associated with deficits in cognitive and memory functions during aging, 
non-human primates (NHP) present with more variable expressions of pathological 
alterations among individuals and species. As such, NHP with long life 
expectancy in captivity offer an opportunity to study brain senescence in the 
absence of the typical cellular pathology caused by age-related 
neurodegenerative illnesses commonly seen in humans. Age-related changes at 
neuronal population, single cell, and synaptic levels have been well documented 
in macaques and marmosets, while age-related and Alzheimer's disease-like 
neuropathology has been characterized in additional species including lemurs as 
well as great apes. We present a comparative overview of existing 
neuropathologic observations across the primate order, including classic 
age-related changes such as cell loss, amyloid deposition, amyloid angiopathy, 
and tau accumulation. We also review existing cellular and ultrastructural data 
on neuronal changes, such as dendritic attrition and spine alterations, synaptic 
loss and pathology, and axonal and myelin pathology, and discuss their 
repercussions on cellular and systems function and cognition.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23299
PMCID: PMC8551009
PMID: 34255875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTERESTS The authors declare that 
there are no conflicts of interests.


64. Int J Equity Health. 2021 Jul 13;20(1):163. doi: 10.1186/s12939-021-01502-6.

Health disparities in Russia at the regional and global scales.

Shartova N(1), Tikunov V(2), Chereshnya O(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Geography, Lomonosov Moscow State University, Moscow, 119991, 
Russia. shartova@yandex.ru.
(2)Faculty of Geography, Lomonosov Moscow State University, Moscow, 119991, 
Russia.

BACKGROUND: The capacity for health comparisons, including the accurate 
comparison of indicators, is necessary for a comprehensive evaluation of 
well-being in places where people live. An important issue is the assessment of 
within-country heterogeneity for geographically extensive countries. The aim of 
this study was to assess the spatial and temporal changes in health status in 
Russia and to compare these regional changes with global trends.
METHODS: The index, which considers the infant mortality rate and the male and 
female life expectancy at birth, was used for this purpose. Homogeneous 
territorial groups were identified using principal component analysis and 
multivariate ranking procedures. Trend analysis of individual indicators 
included in the index was also performed to assess the changes over the past 
20 years (1990-2017).
RESULTS: The study indicated a trend towards convergence in health indicators 
worldwide, which is largely due to changes in infant mortality. It also revealed 
that the trend of increasing life expectancy in many regions of Russia is not 
statistically significant. Significant interregional heterogeneity of health 
status in Russia was identified according to the application of typological 
ranking. The regions were characterized by similar index values until the 
mid-1990s.
CONCLUSIONS: The strong spatial inequality in health of population was found in 
Russia. While many regions of Russia were comparable to the countries in the 
high-income group in terms of GDP, the progress in health was less pronounced. 
Perhaps this can be explained by intraregional inequality, expressed by 
significant fluctuations in income levels.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Not applicable.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12939-021-01502-6
PMCID: PMC8276545
PMID: 34256759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


65. BMJ Case Rep. 2021 Jul 13;14(7):e244122. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2021-244122.

Alternative management of delayed spontaneous oesophageal perforation by 
endoscopic stenting.

Zhu C(1), Castrodad A(2), Santos AP(2).

Author information:
(1)Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center School of Medicine, Lubbock, TX, 
USA christina.zhu@ttuhsc.edu.
(2)Department of Surgery, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Covenant 
Medical Center, Lubbock, TX, USA.

Boerhaave's syndrome or spontaneous perforation of the oesophagus is a 
life-threatening condition that carries high mortality. Delayed diagnosis has a 
mortality rate of 20%-50%. While surgical intervention has been the mainstay of 
treatment, advancements in endoscopy and oesophageal stenting have allowed for 
alternative management. Our case involves a 33-year-old man with self-induced 
emesis and DKA. After 10 days in the ICU, he developed a large right pleural 
effusion, which was treated with chest tube placement. Upper GI study confirmed 
delayed Boerhaave's syndrome. A self-expanding stent was inserted followed by 
percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) for decompression and jejunal 
extension for nutrition. He developed empyema and underwent right thoracotomy 
for washout and lung decortication. Stent was exchanged once due to recurrent 
leak following migration and removed after 40 days. Endoscopic stent placement 
with PEG with jejunal extension followed by thoracotomy is a viable alternative 
to primary repair of delayed oesophageal perforation.

© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2021. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2021-244122
PMCID: PMC8278886
PMID: 34257131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


66. Sci Rep. 2021 Jul 13;11(1):14355. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-93583-0.

Ectoparasitic fungi Rickia wasmannii infection is associated with smaller body 
size in Myrmica ants.

Csősz S(1)(2), Rádai Z(3), Tartally A(4), Ballai LE(4), Báthori F(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Evolutionary Ecology Research Group, Institute of Ecology and Botany, Centre 
for Ecological Research, Alkotmány út 2-4, Vácrátót, 2163, Hungary.
(2)MTA-ELTE-MTM Ecology Research Group, Pázmány Péter sétány 1/C, Budapest, 
1117, Hungary.
(3)Lendület Seed Ecology Research Group, Institute of Ecology and Botany, Centre 
for Ecological Research, Alkotmány út 2-4, Vácrátót, 2163, Hungary.
(4)Department of Evolutionary Zoology and Human Biology, University of Debrecen, 
Egyetem tér 1, Debrecen, 4032, Hungary.
(5)Evolutionary Ecology Research Group, Institute of Ecology and Botany, Centre 
for Ecological Research, Alkotmány út 2-4, Vácrátót, 2163, Hungary. 
ferenc.bathori@gmail.com.
(6)Department of Evolutionary Zoology and Human Biology, University of Debrecen, 
