
Comment in
    AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2022 Apr;218(4):761.

IMPORTANCE: There are different clinical practices regarding ultrasonography 
screening intervals for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) despite recommendations 
from international guidelines.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether ultrasonography screening using intervals 
suggested by international guidelines is associated with cancer stage shifting, 
reductions in mortality, and improved quality of life (QoL) for patients with 
HCC.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This nationwide comparative effectiveness 
research study estimated lifetime survival functions using interlinkages of 3 
databases from Taiwan-the Taiwan National Health Insurance, Taiwan National 
Cancer Registry, and National Mortality Registry-combined with QoL measurements 
obtained from National Cheng Kung University Hospital. In total, 114 022 
patients listed as having newly diagnosed HCC from 2002 through 2015 in the 
Taiwan National Cancer Registry were followed up until 2017. The QoL values of 
1059 patients with HCC who visited National Cheng Kung University Hospital were 
prospectively measured with the European QoL-5 dimensions questionnaire from 
2011 through 2019. Patients were categorized based on the time between their 
last ultrasonography screening and the index date (90 days prior to HCC 
diagnosis) as 1 of 5 subcohorts: 6 months (0-6 months), 12 months (7-12 months), 
24 months (13-24 months), 36 months (25-36 months), and longer than 36 months 
(no screening in the previous 3 years). Data were analyzed from April 2020 to 
April 2021.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, 
and loss of life expectancy or loss of quality-adjusted life expectancy compared 
with age-, sex-, and calendar year-matched cohorts.
RESULTS: There were 59 194 patients with Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer staging 
information, including 42 081 men (mean [SD] age, 62.2 [12.6] years) and 17 113 
women (mean [SD] age, 69.0 [11.2] years). There was a consistent trend showing 
that the longer the interval between ultrasonography examinations, the higher 
the loss of life expectancy and loss of quality-adjusted life expectancy for 
both sexes. Loss of quality-adjusted life expectancy values for male subcohorts 
were 10.0 (95% CI, 9.1-10.9) quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for 
ultrasonography screening intervals of 6 months, 11.1 (95% CI, 10.4-11.8) QALYs 
for 12 months, 12.1 (95% CI, 11.5-12.7) QALYs for 24 months, 13.1 (95% CI, 
12.6-13.6) QALYs for 36 months, and 14.6 (95% CI, 14.2-15.0) QALYs for longer 
than 36 months. Loss of quality-adjusted life expectancy values for female 
subcohorts were 9.0 (95% CI, 8.3-9.6) QALYs for 6 months, 9.7 (95% CI, 9.2-10.2) 
QALYs for 12 months, 10.3 (95% CI, 9.8-10.7) QALYs for 24 months, 10.7 (95% CI, 
10.2-11.1) QALYs for 36 months, and 11.4 (95% CI, 11.0-11.8) QALYs for longer 
than 36 months. Patients with underlying hepatitis B virus infection or 
cirrhosis had the greatest improvement in life expectancy with shorter screening 
intervals.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Regular ultrasonography screening with intervals less 
than 6 to 12 months may be associated with early detection of HCC, save lives, 
and improve the quality of life for patients with HCC from a lifetime 
perspective.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2021.14680
PMCID: PMC8226422
PMID: 34165580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None reported.


791. JAMA Netw Open. 2021 Jun 1;4(6):e2114520. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2021.14520.

Association of the COVID-19 Pandemic With Estimated Life Expectancy by 
Race/Ethnicity in the United States, 2020.

Andrasfay T(1), Goldman N(2).

Author information:
(1)Leonard Davis School of Gerontology, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles.
(2)Office of Population Research and Princeton School of Public and 
International Affairs, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey.

This cross-sectional study examines the association of the COVID-19 pandemic 
with estimated life expectancy by race/ethnicity in the US.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2021.14520
PMCID: PMC8226419
PMID: 34165582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None reported.


792. Can J Anaesth. 2021 Oct;68(10):1549-1561. doi: 10.1007/s12630-021-02052-9.
Epub  2021 Jun 24.

Perioperative care of adults with Down syndrome: a narrative review.

[Article in English]

Malinzak EB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Duke University School of Medicine, DUMC 3094, 
Durham, NC, 27710, USA. Elizabeth.malinzak@duke.edu.

Because of enhanced life expectancy due to medical and surgical therapeutic 
advances, it is estimated that there are more adults than children living with 
Down syndrome (DS), or trisomy 21, in the United States. Therefore, DS can no 
longer be considered a syndrome limited to the pediatric population. These 
patients are presenting for surgery and anesthesia in adult care settings, where 
anesthesiologists will encounter these patients more frequently. As these 
patients age, their commonly associated co-morbidities not only progress, but 
they also develop other cardiac, respiratory, gastrointestinal, and neurologic 
conditions. The manifestations and consequences of chronic disease can present 
new challenges for the anesthesiologist and require expertise and judgement to 
minimize patient risk. The purpose of this narrative review is to describe the 
common pediatric co-morbidities associated with DS and discuss the age-acquired 
manifestations. Additionally, considerations for anesthetic care of the adult 
with DS will be presented, including the preoperative assessment, intraoperative 
management, and postoperative care.

Publisher: RéSUMé: En raison de l’augmentation de l’espérance de vie grâce aux 
progrès thérapeutiques médicaux et chirurgicaux, on estime qu’il y a plus 
d’adultes que d’enfants vivant avec le syndrome de Down, ou trisomie 21, aux 
États-Unis. Pour cette raison, le syndrome de Down ne peut plus être considéré 
comme une affection qui se limite à la population pédiatrique. Ces patients se 
présentent pour des chirurgies et donc de l’anesthésie dans des contextes de 
soins adultes, où les anesthésiologistes rencontreront ces patients plus 
fréquemment. Au fur et à mesure que ces patients vieillissent, non seulement les 
co-morbidités qui leur sont communément associées progressent, mais ils 
développent également d’autres problèmes cardiaques, respiratoires, 
gastro-intestinaux et neurologiques. Les manifestations et les conséquences de 
la maladie chronique peuvent présenter de nouveaux défis pour 
l’anesthésiologiste et nécessitent expertise et jugement afin de minimiser les 
risques pour le patient. Le but de ce compte rendu narratif est de décrire les 
co-morbidités pédiatriques fréquemment liées au syndrome de Down et de discuter 
des manifestations acquises avec l’âge. En outre, des considérations concernant 
les soins anesthésiques de l’adulte atteint du syndrome de Down seront 
présentées, y compris l’évaluation préopératoire, la prise en charge 
peropératoire, et les soins postopératoires.

© 2021. Canadian Anesthesiologists' Society.

DOI: 10.1007/s12630-021-02052-9
PMID: 34165727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Telemed J E Health. 2022 Apr;28(4):566-574. doi: 10.1089/tmj.2021.0106. Epub
 2021 Jun 24.

Assessing College Students' Perceptions of and Intentions to Use a Mobile App 
for Mental Health.

Mitchell KM(1), Holtz BE(1), McCarroll AM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Advertising and Public Relations, College of Communication Arts 
and Sciences, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA.
(2)Department of Communication and Media, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan, USA.

Introduction: College students face high rates of depression, anxiety, and 
suicide. Therefore, the focus of this study was to examine college students' 
intention to use a mental health app provided by the university, called MySSP, 
through use of the unified theory of acceptance and use of technology (UTAUT). 
Materials and Methods: An online survey was developed based on responses to 
focus groups previously conducted by the authors regarding MySSP. A multiple 
linear regression was conducted to test the associations between the UTAUT 
variables and behavioral intention. In addition, moderation analyses were 
conducted to explore the effects of depression, anxiety, stigma, and quality of 
life as moderators. Results: Results suggest that performance expectancy (PE) 
(t = 3.088, p = 0.003) and social influence (SI) (t = -2.163, p = 0.03) were the 
only significant predictors of behavioral intention. The only significant 
moderator was stigma in the relationship between effort expectancy and 
behavioral intention (b = -1.6081, standard error (SE) = 0.7454, confidence 
interval (CI): -3.0691 to -0.1472) as well as facilitating conditions (FCs) and 
behavioral intention (b = -2.2292, SE = 0.8580, CI: -3.9110 to -0.5475). 
Conclusions: This study provides an initial exploration of college students' 
intentions to use MySSP. The results suggest that successful interventions 
include features related to PE (usefulness) and SI (norms), which should be 
focused on when developing and testing apps for mental health. Additionally, the 
stigma of mental health has significant negative impacts on the adoption of 
mental health apps and should be considered in implementation of mental health 
interventions geared toward college students.

DOI: 10.1089/tmj.2021.0106
PMID: 34166099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Phys Med. 2021 Aug;88:20-22. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmp.2021.06.013. Epub 2021 Jun
21.

On a new multi-source X-ray tube concept for minimizing imaging time in digital 
breast tomosynthesis.

Behling R(1).

Author information:
(1)XtraininX - Technical Consulting, Sanddornweg 23 c, 22846 Norderstedt, 
Germany. Electronic address: Admin@XtraininX.com.

Replacing moving mechanics in computed tomography (CT) and digital breast 
tomosynthesis (DBT) has inspired numerous projects to develop alternative X-ray 
sources. While less suitable for CT, DBT is a viable target application for the 
multi-X-ray-source array tube suggested in Becker, A.E., et al. (2020): A 
prototype Multi-X-ray-source array (MXA) for digital breast tomosynthesis. 
Physics in Medicine & Biology, 65(23), 235033. The proposed prototype MXA tube 
comprises rotating anode disks and a set of thermionic grid switchable cathodes. 
It is a first-of-a-kind X-ray tube emitting brake radiation (Bremsstrahlung), 
developed to minimize exposure times for DBT down to the limits set by the 
dynamics of the employed flat panel detectors. This commentary takes a closer 
look at the above article and the presented concept. The MXA is expected to be 
scalable for long service life. The technology has potential for further 
extension beyond the primary target application of mammography tomosynthesis.

Copyright © 2021 Associazione Italiana di Fisica Medica. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmp.2021.06.013
PMID: 34167003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. J Feline Med Surg. 2021 Jul;23(7):613-638. doi: 10.1177/1098612X211021538.

2021 AAFP Feline Senior Care Guidelines.

Ray M(1), Carney HC(2), Boynton B(3), Quimby J(4), Robertson S(5), St Denis 
K(6), Tuzio H(7), Wright B(8).

Author information:
(1)The Cat Clinic of Roswell, Roswell, GA, USA.
(2)WestVet Emergency and Specialty Center, Garden City, ID, USA.
(3)College of Veterinary Medicine, Western University of Health Sciences, 
Pomona, CA, USA.
(4)The Ohio State University, Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences, 
Columbus, OH, USA.
(5)Senior Medical Director, Lap of Love Veterinary Hospice, Lutz, FL, USA.
(6)Brantford, ON, Canada.
(7)Forest Hills Cat Hospital, Middle Village, NY, USA.
(8)Mistralvet, Johnstown, CO, USA.

Erratum in
    J Feline Med Surg. 2021 Oct;23(10):NP4.

Comment in
    J Feline Med Surg. 2021 Jul;23(7):611.

The '2021 AAFP Feline Senior Care Guidelines' are authored by a Task Force of 
experts in feline clinical medicine and serve as an update and extension of 
those published in 2009. They emphasize the individual patient evaluation and 
the process of aging, with references to other feline practice guidelines for a 
more complete discussion of specific diseases. Focusing on each cat encourages 
and empowers the owner to become a part of the cat's care every step of the way. 
A comprehensive discussion during the physical examination and history taking 
allows for tailoring the approach to both the cat and the family involved in the 
care. Videos and analysis of serial historical measurements are brought into the 
assessment of each patient. These Guidelines introduce the emerging concept of 
frailty, with a description and methods of its incorporation into the senior cat 
assessment. Minimum database diagnostics are discussed, along with 
recommendations for additional investigative considerations. For example, blood 
pressure assessment is included as a minimum diagnostic procedure in both 
apparently healthy and ill cats. Cats age at a much faster rate than humans, so 
practical timelines for testing frequency are included and suggest an increased 
frequency of diagnostics with advancing age. The importance of nutrition, as 
well as senior cat nutritional needs and deficiencies, is considered. Pain is 
highlighted as its own syndrome, with an emphasis on consideration in every 
senior cat. The Task Force discusses anesthesia, along with strategies to allow 
aging cats to be safely anesthetized well into their senior years. The medical 
concept of quality of life is addressed with the latest information available in 
veterinary medicine. This includes end of life considerations like palliative 
and hospice care, as well as recommendations on the establishment of 'budgets of 
care', which greatly influence what can be done for the individual cat. 
Acknowledgement is given that each cat owner will be different in this regard; 
and establishing what is reasonable and practical for the individual owner is 
important. A discussion on euthanasia offers some recommendations to help the 
owner make a decision that reflects the best interests of the individual cat.

DOI: 10.1177/1098612X211021538
PMID: 34167339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. J Aging Health. 2021 Aug-Sep;33(7-8_suppl):3S-9S. doi: 
10.1177/08982643211014399.

Aging and Health of American Indians and Alaska Natives: Contributions from the 
Native Investigator Development Program.

Manson SM(1), Buchwald DS(2).

Author information:
(1)Centers for American Indian and Alaska Native Health, Colorado School of 
Public Health, 129263University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, CO, 
USA.
(2)Institute for Research and Education to Advance Community Health, 
6760Washington State University, Seattle, WA, USA.

Objectives: To describe recent advances in our knowledge regarding the health 
and illness of older American Indians and Alaska Natives, and factors underlying 
why this special population lives 5.5 years less than the 78.5 years of U.S. all 
races. Methods: The articles in this supplemental issue, authored by 
participants in a National Institutes of Health-sponsored early research career 
development program, examine high priority health concerns that contribute to 
the increased risk of Native elders for chronic disease and resulting impairment 
that compromise their life expectancy. Results: Important insights into the 
roles that racial discrimination, food security, hypertension, alcohol 
consumption, memory problems, and military service play in the health and 
well-being of older American Indians and Alaska Natives. Discussion: Early 
career faculty development programs focused on increasing the diversity of the 
scientific workforce not only promote greater racial and ethnic minority 
representation in the field of aging, but can simultaneously add to the 
knowledge base regarding the health status and function of often ignored, 
vulnerable older members of communities that suffer significant health 
disparities.

DOI: 10.1177/08982643211014399
PMCID: PMC8627114
PMID: 34167345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


797. SLAS Discov. 2021 Sep;26(8):1029-1039. doi: 10.1177/24725552211018198. Epub
2021  Jun 24.

A High-Content Screening Assay for Small Molecules That Stabilize Mutant Triose 
Phosphate Isomerase (TPI) as Treatments for TPI Deficiency.

Vogt A(1)(2), Eicher SL(3)(4), Myers TD(3)(4), Hrizo SL(3)(4)(5), Vollmer LL(1), 
Meyer EM(2), Palladino MJ(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computational & Systems Biology, Drug Discovery Institute, 
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(2)UPMC Hillman Cancer Center, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacology & Chemical Biology, University of Pittsburgh 
School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(4)Pittsburgh Institute for Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of Pittsburgh 
School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(5)Department of Biology, Slippery Rock University of Pennsylvania, Slippery 
Rock, PA, USA.

Triose phosphate isomerase deficiency (TPI Df) is an untreatable, 
childhood-onset glycolytic enzymopathy. Patients typically present with frequent 
infections, anemia, and muscle weakness that quickly progresses with severe 
neuromusclar dysfunction requiring aided mobility and often respiratory support. 
Life expectancy after diagnosis is typically ~5 years. There are several 
described pathogenic mutations that encode functional proteins; however, these 
proteins, which include the protein resulting from the "common" TPIE105D 
mutation, are unstable due to active degradation by protein quality control 
(PQC) pathways. Previous work has shown that elevating mutant TPI levels by 
genetic or pharmacological intervention can ameliorate symptoms of TPI Df in 
fruit flies. To identify compounds that increase levels of mutant TPI, we have 
developed a human embryonic kidney (HEK) stable knock-in model expressing the 
common TPI Df protein fused with green fluorescent protein (HEK TPIE105D-GFP). 
To directly address the need for lead TPI Df therapeutics, these cells were 
developed into an optical drug discovery platform that was implemented for 
high-throughput screening (HTS) and validated in 3-day variability tests, 
meeting HTS standards. We initially used this assay to screen the 446-member 
National Institutes of Health (NIH) Clinical Collection and validated two of the 
hits in dose-response, by limited structure-activity relationship studies with a 
small number of analogs, and in an orthogonal, non-optical assay in patient 
fibroblasts. The data form the basis for a large-scale phenotypic screening 
effort to discover compounds that stabilize TPI as treatments for this 
devastating childhood disease.

DOI: 10.1177/24725552211018198
PMCID: PMC8380696
PMID: 34167376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis. 2021 Oct;30(10):105934. doi: 
10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2021.105934. Epub 2021 Jun 22.

A Cost Utility Analysis of Minimally Invasive Surgery with Thrombolysis Compared 
to Standard Medical Treatment in Spontaneous Intracerebral Haemorrhagic Stroke.

Vardanyan R(1), Hagana A(2), Iqbal H(2), Arjomandi Rad A(2), Mahmud M(3), 
Ruparell K(2), Rabee N(4), Khan J(5), Poole W(2), Shakir RA(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Medicine, Imperial College London, London, 
United Kingdom. Electronic address: robert.vardanyan1@nhs.net.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Medicine, Imperial College London, London, 
United Kingdom.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Brain Sciences, Imperial College London, 
London, United Kingdom.
(4)School of Medicine and Dentistry, Barts and The London, Queen Mary, 
University of London, London, United Kingdom.
(5)Faculty of Medicine, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis. 2021 Oct;30(10):106017.

OBJECTIVES: Standard medical management of spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage 
(ICH) and surgical hematoma evacuation starkly differ, and whilst landmark 
randomised control trials report no clinical benefit of early surgical 
evacuation compared with medical treatment in supratentorial ICH, minimally 
invasive surgery (MIS) with thrombolysis has been neglected within these 
studies. However, recent technological advancements in MIS have renewed interest 
in the surgical treatment of ICH. Several economic evaluations have focused on 
the benefits of MIS in ischaemic stroke management, but no economic evaluations 
have yet been performed comparing MIS to standard medical treatment for ICH.
MATERIALS AND METHOD: All costs were sourced from the UK in GBP. Where possible, 
the 2019/2020 NHS reference costs were used. The MISTIE III study was used to 
analyse the outcomes of patients undergoing either MIS or standard medical 
treatment in this economic evaluation.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for MIS was £485,240.26 
for every quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. Although MIS resulted in a 
higher QALY compared to medical treatment, the gain was insignificant at 0.011 
QALY. Four sensitivity analyses based on combinations of alternative EQ-5D 
values and categorisation of MIS outcomes, alongside alterations to the cost of 
significant adverse events, were performed to check the robustness of the ICER 
calculation. The most realistic sensitivity analysis showed a potential increase 
in cost effectiveness when clot size is reduced to <15ml, with the ICER falling 
to £74,335.57.
DISCUSSION: From the perspective of the NHS, MIS with thrombolysis is not 
cost-effective compared to optimal medical treatment. ICER shows that 
intention-to-treat MIS would require a cost of £485,240.26 to gain one extra 
QALY, which is significantly above the NHS threshold of £30,000. Further UK 
studies with ICH survivor utilities, more replicable surgical technique, and the 
reporting of clot size reduction are indicated as the present sensitivity 
analysis suggests that MIS is promising. Greater detail about outcomes and 
complications would ensure improved cost-benefit analyses and support valid and 
efficient allocation of resources by the NHS.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2021.105934
PMID: 34167871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The author(s) 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship and/or publication of this article.


799. Nat Rev Dis Primers. 2021 Jun 24;7(1):45. doi: 10.1038/s41572-021-00278-x.

Haemophilia.

Berntorp E(1)(2), Fischer K(3), Hart DP(4)(5), Mancuso ME(6), Stephensen 
D(4)(7), Shapiro AD(8), Blanchette V(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Translational Medicine, Lund University, Malmö, Sweden. 
erik.berntorp@med.lu.se.
(2)Skane University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden. erik.berntorp@med.lu.se.
(3)Van Creveldkliniek, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The 
Netherlands.
(4)The Royal London Hospital Haemophilia Centre, Barts Health NHS Trust, London, 
UK.
(5)Centre for Immunobiology, Blizard Institute, Barts and The London School of 
Medicine and Dentistry, QMUL, London, UK.
(6)Center for Thrombosis and Hemorrhagic Diseases, IRCCS Humanitas Research 
Hospital, Rozzano, Milan, Italy.
(7)Kent Haemophilia & Thrombosis Centre, Canterbury, UK.
(8)Indiana Hemophilia and Thrombosis Center, Inc., Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(9)Department of Paediatrics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(10)Division of Haematology/Oncology, Research Institute, Hospital for Sick 
Children, Toronto, Canada.

Haemophilia A and B are rare congenital, recessive X-linked disorders caused by 
lack or deficiency of clotting factor VIII (FVIII) or IX (FIX), respectively. 
The severity of the disease depends on the reduction of levels of FVIII or FIX, 
which are determined by the type of the causative mutation in the genes encoding 
the factors (F8 and F9, respectively). The hallmark clinical characteristic, 
especially in untreated severe forms, is bleeding (spontaneous or after trauma) 
into major joints such as ankles, knees and elbows, which can result in the 
development of arthropathy. Intracranial bleeds and bleeds into internal organs 
may be life-threatening. The median life expectancy was ~30 years until the 
1960s, but improved understanding of the disorder and development of efficacious 
therapy based on prophylactic replacement of the missing factor has caused a 
paradigm shift, and today individuals with haemophilia can look forward to a 
virtually normal life expectancy and quality of life. Nevertheless, the 
potential development of inhibitory antibodies to infused factor is still a 
major hurdle to overcome in a substantial proportion of patients. Finally, gene 
therapy for both types of haemophilia has progressed remarkably and could soon 
become a reality.

DOI: 10.1038/s41572-021-00278-x
PMID: 34168126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Front Psychol. 2021 Jun 8;12:666891. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2021.666891.
eCollection  2021.

COVID-19 Lockdown: Key Factors in Citizens' Stress.

Rodríguez S(1), Valle A(1), Piñeiro I(1), González-Suárez R(1), Díaz FM(1), 
Vieites T(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Psicología, Grupo de Investigación en Psicología Educativa 
(GIPED), University of A Coruña, A Coruña, Spain.

Background: Confinement due to COVID-19 can have a short- and long-term impact 
on mental health (increased levels of stress and anxiety and emotional upheaval) 
and on people's quality of life. Knowing what factors are behind the stress can 
benefit the development of strategies and resources for future situations of a 
similar nature. The purpose of this study is to examine the incidence of a 
series of sociodemographic factors, confinement conditions, and work situation 
on the stress reported by confined citizens. Method: The sample is made up of 
2008 citizens (19.9% men), the Perceived Stress Scale of 14 items (PSS-14) was 
used to assess the stress level of the population, as well as a sociodemographic 
questionnaire and different questions aimed at obtain information about the 
characteristics of the confinement and the employment situation. Data were 
collected using exponential snowball-type non-probability sampling. Results: The 
results suggest that sociodemographic factors such as age, gender, and income 
level could be good predictors of confinement stress. Post-confinement work 
expectancy along with pre-confinement working conditions can be key to 
protecting the well-being of confined populations. Limitations: This is a 
transversal study that forces us to be cautious with causal interpretations. The 
questionnaire was administered online, which means it excluded a good proportion 
of the population. Conclusion: The perception of stress being higher in women 
than men, with the lowest stress in older people and those with higher reported 
incomes. Stress levels increase as populations spend more weeks in confinement 
and the pre-confinement work situation seems key to protecting the well-being of 
the population. A lower stress is observed among stable couples without children 
confined in residential or suburban areas. Low income or economic instability is 
associated with a higher rate of stress and anxiety. The results can contribute 
to prioritizing actions and aid by contributing to the formation of teams and 
the design of tools for work in the current pandemic situation.

Copyright © 2021 Rodríguez, Valle, Piñeiro, González-Suárez, Díaz and Vieites.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2021.666891
PMCID: PMC8217640
PMID: 34168595

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


801. SSM Popul Health. 2021 Jun 8;15:100840. doi: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2021.100840. 
eCollection 2021 Sep.

Life expectancy and voting patterns in the 2020 U.S. presidential election.

Curtis LH(1)(2), Hoffman MN(1), Califf RM(2), Hammill BG(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Health Sciences, Duke University, 215 Morris St, 
Durham, NC 27701, USA.
(2)Duke Clinical Research Institute, 300 W. Morgan St, Durham, NC 27701, USA.

INTRODUCTION: In the 2016 U.S. Presidential election, voters in communities with 
recent stagnation or decline in life expectancy were more likely to vote for the 
Republican candidate than in prior Presidential elections. We aimed to assess 
the association between change in life expectancy and voting patterns in the 
2020 Presidential election.
METHODS: With data on county-level life expectancy from the Institute for Health 
Metrics and Evaluation and voting data from a GitHub repository of results 
scraped from news outlets, we used weighted multivariable linear regression to 
estimate the association between the change in life expectancy from 1980 to 2014 
and the proportion of votes for the Republican candidate and change in the 
proportion of votes cast for the Republican candidate in the 2020 Presidential 
election.
RESULTS: Among 3110 U.S counties and Washington, D.C., change in life expectancy 
at the county level was negatively associated with Republican share of the vote 
in the 2020 Presidential election (parameter estimate -7.2, 95% confidence 
interval, -7.8 to -6.6). With the inclusion of state, sociodemographic, and 
economic variables in the model, the association was attenuated (parameter 
estimate -0.8; 95% CI, -1.5 to -0.2). County-level change in life expectancy was 
positively associated with change in Republican vote share 0.29 percentage 
points (95% CI, 0.23 to 0.36). The association was attenuated when state, 
sociodemographic, and economic variables were added (parameter estimate 0.24; 
95% CI, 0.15 to 0.33).
CONCLUSION: Counties with a less positive trajectory in life expectancy were 
more likely to vote for the Republican candidate in the 2020 U.S. Presidential 
election, but the Republican candidate's share improved in some counties that 
experienced marked gains in life expectancy. Associations were moderated by 
demographic, social and economic factors.

© 2021 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ssmph.2021.100840
PMCID: PMC8209240
PMID: 34169139

Conflict of interest statement: LC, MN and BH declare no conflicts of interest. 
RMC reports employment from Google Health and Verily Life Sciences and Corporate 
Board for Cytokinetics and Centessa with payment and stock.


802. Kidney Int Rep. 2021 Mar 3;6(6):1558-1566. doi: 10.1016/j.ekir.2021.02.032. 
eCollection 2021 Jun.

Perceptions of Illness Severity, Treatment Goals, and Life Expectancy: The 
ePISTLE Study.

Beckwith HKS(1)(2), Adwaney A(1), Appelbe M(1), Gaffney HT(1), Hill P(1), Moabi 
D(1), Prout VL(1), Salisbury E(1), Webster P(1), Tomlinson JAP(1), Brown 
EA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Imperial College Renal and Transplant Centre, Hammersmith Hospital, London, 
United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Renal Medicine, Imperial College London, London, United 
Kingdom.

INTRODUCTION: A better understanding of factors influencing perceived life 
expectancy (PLE), interactions between patient prognostic beliefs, experiences 
of illness, and treatment behavior is urgently needed.
METHODS: Case-notes at 3 hemodialysis units were screened: patients with ≥20% 
1-year mortality risk were included. Patients and their health care 
professionals (HCPs) were invited to complete a structured interview or 
mixed-methods questionnaire. Four hundred eleven patient notes were screened. 
Seventy-seven eligible patients were approached and 51 were included.
RESULTS: Patients predicted significantly higher life expectancies than HCPs 
(P < 0.0001). Documented cognitive impairment, gender, or increasing age did not 
affect 1- or 5-year PLE. PLE influenced priorities of care: one-fifth of 
patients who estimated themselves to have >95% 1-year survival preferred "care 
focusing on relieving pain and discomfort," compared with nearly three-quarters 
of those reporting a ≤50% chance of 1-year survival. Twenty of 51 (39%) patients 
believed transplantation was an option for them, despite only 4 being waitlisted 
at the time of the interview. Patients who thought they were transplant 
candidates were significantly more confident they would be alive at 1 and 5 
years and to want resuscitation attempted. Cognitive impairment had no effect on 
perceived transplant candidacy. A high symptom burden was present and 
underrecognized by HCPs. High symptom burden was associated with significantly 
lower PLE at both 1 and 5 years, increased anxiety/depression scores, and 
treatment choices more likely to prioritize relief of suffering.
CONCLUSION: There is a disparity between patient PLE and those of their HCPs. 
Severity of symptom burden and beliefs regarding PLE or transplant candidacy 
affect patient treatment preferences.

© 2021 International Society of Nephrology. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ekir.2021.02.032
PMCID: PMC8207314
PMID: 34169196


803. Kidney Int Rep. 2021 Mar 24;6(6):1603-1613. doi: 10.1016/j.ekir.2021.03.884.
 eCollection 2021 Jun.

Long-Term Efficacy and Safety of the Long-Acting Complement C5 Inhibitor 
Ravulizumab for the Treatment of Atypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome in Adults.

Barbour T(1), Scully M(2), Ariceta G(3), Cataland S(4), Garlo K(5), Heyne N(6), 
Luque Y(7), Menne J(8), Miyakawa Y(9), Yoon SS(10), Kavanagh D(11)(12); 311 
Study Group Members.

Collaborators: Babu S, Broeders N, Lietar N, Brown F, Campbell P, Campistol JM, 
Chowdhury P, Kasimatis T, Cirami L, Caroti L, Antognoli G, Delmas Y, Dobronravov 
V, Gaeckler A, Garrouste C, Greenwood G, Griffin S, Huang CC, Chen IR, Huang S, 
Kim JS, La Manna G, Le Quintrec M, Jeantet G, Fumie I, Rondeau E, Haller H, 
Morelle J, Goffin E, Muhlfeld A, Nagaraj S, Arepally G, Oh D, Okumi M, Terente 
MP, Provot F, Schönermarck U, Fischereder M, Terrada NR, Seitz-Polski B, Favre 
G, Boyer-Suavet S, Vinogradova M, Kirsanova T, Wong EK.

Author information:
(1)Kidney Care, The Royal Melbourne Hospital, Melbourne, Australia.
(2)Department of Haematology, University College London Hospitals, London, UK.
(3)Paediatric Nephrology Department, University Hospital Vall d'Hebron, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Division of Hematology, The Ohio State University Medical Center, Columbus, 
Ohio, USA.
(5)Clinical Development, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(6)Section of Nephrology and Hypertension, Tübingen University Hospital, 
Tübingen, Germany.
(7)Intensive Care Nephrology and Transplantation Department, APHP, Sorbonne 
Université, Paris, France.
(8)KRH Klinikum Mitte-Location Siloah, Hannover, Germany.
(9)Department of General Internal Medicine, Saitama Medical University, Saitama, 
Japan.
(10)Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(11)Complement Therapeutics Research Group, Translational and Clinical Research 
Institute, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(12)National Renal Complement Therapeutics Centre, Royal Victoria Infirmary, 
Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS) is a rare, complex, 
multisystem disease of dysregulated complement activity, characterized by 
progressive thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA), acute kidney injury, and 
multiorgan dysfunction, which often progresses to chronic kidney disease. 
Results from the prospective clinical trial of ravulizumab (NCT02949128) reveal 
rapid resolution of TMA in patients with aHUS, with sustained efficacy and 
safety in a 26-week initial evaluation period.
METHODS: The aim of this analysis was to characterize the long-term efficacy and 
the safety profile of ravulizumab in adults with aHUS who had completed the 
initial evaluation period of the trial. Complete TMA response, hematologic and 
kidney functions, and safety were evaluated for all patients available for 
follow-up in the extension period (median follow-up: 76.7 weeks; range: 
0.6-118.3). This trial included a total of 58 patients, 49 of whom entered the 
extension period.
RESULTS: A total of 4 additional patients achieved complete TMA response during 
the follow-up period. Normalization of platelet count, serum lactate 
dehydrogenase (LDH), and hemoglobin observed in the 26-week initial evaluation 
period was sustained until the last available follow-up, as were the 
improvements in the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and patient 
quality of life. All efficacy endpoints were correlated with the sustained 
inhibition of complement C5. Most adverse events (AEs) occurred early during the 
initial evaluation period and decreased substantially during the extension 
period. No patient developed a meningococcal infection or died during the 
extension period.
CONCLUSION: This analysis reveals that ravulizumab administered every 8 weeks is 
efficacious with an acceptable safety profile for the long-term treatment of 
adults with aHUS and provides additional clinical benefit beyond 6 months of 
treatment.

© 2021 Published by Elsevier, Inc., on behalf of the International Society of 
Nephrology.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ekir.2021.03.884
PMCID: PMC8207473
PMID: 34169200


804. Int J Urol. 2021 Aug;28(8):869. doi: 10.1111/iju.14620. Epub 2021 Jun 24.

Editorial Comment to Life expectancy in metastatic prostate cancer patients 
according to racial/ethnic groups.

Sugihara T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Jichi Medical University, Shimotsuke, Japan.

Comment on
    Int J Urol. 2021 Aug;28(8):862-869.

DOI: 10.1111/iju.14620
PMID: 34169575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Int J Palliat Nurs. 2021 Jun 2;27(4):176-187. doi:
10.12968/ijpn.2021.27.4.176.

Hope in palliative care nursing: concept analysis.

Guedes A(1), Carvalho MS(1), Laranjeira C(2), Querido A(2), Charepe Z(3).

Author information:
(1)PhD student in Nursing, Catholic University of Portugal, Institute of Health 
Sciences, Lisbon, Portugal.
(2)Associate Professor, Center for Innovative Care and Health Technology 
(ciTechCare); School of Health Sciences of Polytechnic of Leiria.
(3)Associate Professor, Catholic University of Portugal, Institute of Health 
Sciences, Center for Interdisciplinary Research in Health (CIIS), Lisbon, 
Portugal.

BACKGROUND: Hope has long been considered essential to humans in several 
disciplines, nursing included. At the end-of-life, hope is a complex and dynamic 
emotion, and there have been different interpretations and conceptions of hope.
AIM: To develop hope in palliative care as an evidenced-based nursing concept: 
analyse its attributes, antecedents and consequences.
METHOD: This study follows Walker and Avant's concept analysis: (a) select a 
concept; (b) determine the aims or purposes of analysis; (c) identify as many 
uses of the concept as possible; (d) determine the defining attributes; (e) 
identify a model case; (f) identify borderline and contrary cases; (g) identify 
antecedents and consequences; and finally (h) define the empirical referents.
FINDINGS: Antecedents included symptom control, existential suffering, 
interpersonal relationships and the establishment of realistic goals. The 
synthetic attributes were a positive outcome expectancy and a process oriented 
towards the present and future. The concept's consequences were quality of life, 
survival, acceptance and a peaceful death.
CONCLUSION: This study revealed a strong history of publications on the subject. 
The analysis of attributes, antecedents and consequences of the concept of hope 
contributed to understanding its relevance to palliative care nursing and 
provided suggestions for effective interventions and future research.

DOI: 10.12968/ijpn.2021.27.4.176
PMID: 34169743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Health Technol Assess. 2021 Jun;25(42):1-216. doi: 10.3310/hta25420.

Testing strategies for Lynch syndrome in people with endometrial cancer: 
systematic reviews and economic evaluation.

Stinton C(1), Jordan M(1), Fraser H(1), Auguste P(1), Court R(1), Al-Khudairy 
L(1), Madan J(1), Grammatopoulos D(2), Taylor-Phillips S(1).

Author information:
(1)Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, Coventry, UK.
(2)Institute of Precision Diagnostics and Translational Medicine, University 
Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust, Coventry, UK.

BACKGROUND: Lynch syndrome is an inherited genetic condition that is associated 
with an increased risk of certain cancers. The National Institute for Health and 
Care Excellence has recommended that people with colorectal cancer are tested 
for Lynch syndrome. Routine testing for Lynch syndrome among people with 
endometrial cancer is not currently conducted.
OBJECTIVES: To systematically review the evidence on the test accuracy of 
immunohistochemistry- and microsatellite instability-based strategies to detect 
Lynch syndrome among people who have endometrial cancer, and the clinical 
effectiveness and the cost-effectiveness of testing for Lynch syndrome among 
people who have been diagnosed with endometrial cancer.
DATA SOURCES: Searches were conducted in the following databases, from inception 
to August 2019 - MEDLINE ALL, EMBASE (both via Ovid), Cochrane Database of 
Systematic Reviews, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (both via 
Wiley Online Library), Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects, Health 
Technology Assessment Database (both via the Centre for Reviews and 
Dissemination), Science Citation Index, Conference Proceedings Citation Index - 
Science (both via Web of Science), PROSPERO international prospective register 
of systematic reviews (via the Centre for Reviews and Dissemination), NHS 
Economic Evaluation Database, Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Registry, EconPapers 
(Research Papers in Economics) and School of Health and Related Research Health 
Utilities Database. The references of included studies and relevant systematic 
reviews were also checked and experts on the team were consulted.
REVIEW METHODS: Eligible studies included people with endometrial cancer who 
were tested for Lynch syndrome using immunohistochemistry- and/or microsatellite 
instability-based testing [with or without mutL homologue 1 (MLH1) promoter 
hypermethylation testing], with Lynch syndrome diagnosis being established 
though germline testing of normal (non-tumour) tissue for constitutional 
mutations in mismatch repair. The risk of bias in studies was assessed using the 
Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies-2 tool, the Consolidated 
Health Economic Reporting Standards and the Philips' checklist. Two reviewers 
independently conducted each stage of the review. A meta-analysis of test 
accuracy was not possible because of the number and heterogeneity of studies. A 
narrative summary of test accuracy results was provided, reporting test accuracy 
estimates and presenting forest plots. The economic model constituted a decision 
tree followed by Markov models for the impact of colorectal and endometrial 
surveillance, and aspirin prophylaxis with a lifetime time horizon.
RESULTS: The clinical effectiveness search identified 3308 studies; 38 studies 
of test accuracy were included. (No studies of clinical effectiveness of 
endometrial cancer surveillance met the inclusion criteria.) Four test accuracy 
studies compared microsatellite instability with immunohistochemistry. No clear 
difference in accuracy between immunohistochemistry and microsatellite 
instability was observed. There was some evidence that specificity of 
immunohistochemistry could be improved with the addition of methylation testing. 
There was high concordance between immunohistochemistry and microsatellite 
instability. The economic model indicated that all testing strategies, compared 
with no testing, were cost-effective at a willingness-to-pay threshold of 
£20,000 per quality-adjusted life-year. Immunohistochemistry with MLH1 promoter 
hypermethylation testing was the most cost-effective strategy, with an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of £9420 per quality-adjusted life-year. 
The second most cost-effective strategy was immunohistochemistry testing alone, 
but incremental analysis produced an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
exceeding £130,000. Results were robust across all scenario analyses. 
Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios ranged from £5690 to £20,740; only 
removing the benefits of colorectal cancer surveillance produced an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio in excess of the £20,000 willingness-to-pay threshold. 
A sensitivity analysis identified the main cost drivers of the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio as percentage of relatives accepting counselling and 
prevalence of Lynch syndrome in the population. A probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis showed, at a willingness-to-pay threshold of £20,000 per 
quality-adjusted life-year, a 0.93 probability that immunohistochemistry with 
MLH1 promoter hypermethylation testing is cost-effective, compared with no 
testing.
LIMITATIONS: The systematic review excluded grey literature, studies written in 
non-English languages and studies for which the reference standard could not be 
established. Studies were included when Lynch syndrome was diagnosed by genetic 
confirmation of constitutional variants in the four mismatch repair genes (i.e. 
MLH1, mutS homologue 2, mutS homologue 6 and postmeiotic segregation increased 
2). Variants of uncertain significance were reported as per the studies. There 
were limitations in the economic model around uncertainty in the model 
parameters and a lack of modelling of the potential harms of gynaecological 
surveillance and specific pathway modelling of genetic testing for somatic 
mismatch repair mutations.
CONCLUSION: The economic model suggests that testing women with endometrial 
cancer for Lynch syndrome is cost-effective, but that results should be treated 
with caution because of uncertain model inputs.
FUTURE WORK: Randomised controlled trials could provide evidence on the effect 
of earlier intervention on outcomes and the balance of benefits and harms of 
gynaecological cancer surveillance. Follow-up of negative cases through disease 
registers could be used to determine false negative cases.
STUDY REGISTRATION: This study is registered as PROSPERO CRD42019147185.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research 
(NIHR) Evidence Synthesis programme and will be published in full in Health 
Technology Assessment; Vol. 25, No. 42. See the NIHR Journals Library website 
for further project information.

Plain Language Summary: Lynch syndrome is an inherited condition that is caused 
by a problem in the genes. People who have Lynch syndrome have a higher risk of 
some types of cancer (such as bowel and womb cancers) than people who do not 
have it. Identifying Lynch syndrome could stop cancers developing, lead to 
earlier treatment for cancers and help to find other family members who might 
have it. Currently, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence 
guidance recommends testing for Lynch syndrome in people who have bowel cancer. 
Our aim was to investigate whether or not we should test for Lynch syndrome in 
women with womb cancer, and their relatives. We investigated two main tests: 
immunohistochemistry and microsatellite instability. There was no clear evidence 
that one of these tests is better than the other. There is some evidence that 
both tests are reasonably accurate. There was no good-quality evidence about 
whether or not treating women with Lynch syndrome with extra cancer screening 
and aspirin improves their outcomes. We used the best evidence available in our 
economic model, but it was at high risk of bias. The economic model suggested 
that testing women with endometrial cancer for Lynch syndrome is cost-effective. 
The best test in the model was immunohistochemistry followed by methylation 
testing. We are unsure of these results because of the low quality of evidence 
available.

DOI: 10.3310/hta25420
PMCID: PMC8273681
PMID: 34169821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Haemophilia. 2021 Sep;27(5):866-875. doi: 10.1111/hae.14368. Epub 2021 Jun
25.

Quantitative measurements of haemophilic joint tissues by point-of-care 
musculoskeletal ultrasound: Associations with clinical and functional joint 
outcome parameters.

Mesleh Shayeb A(1), Barnes RFW(1), Hanacek C(1), Aguero P(2), Steiner B(3), 
Bailey C(4), Quon D(4), Kruse-Jarres R(3), von Drygalski A(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of 
California San Diego, San Diego, California, USA.
(2)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University of California 
San Diego, San Diego, California, USA.
(3)Washington Center for Bleeding Disorders, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(4)LA Orthopedic Hemophilia Treatment Center, Orthopedic Institute for Children, 
Los Angeles, California, USA.
(5)The Scripps Research Institute, San Diego, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: Painful arthropathy is a long-term complication in patients with 
hemophilia (PWH), affecting mobility and quality of life. A major barrier for 
the appraisal of joint health is the absence of point-of-care (POC) imaging 
modalities to promptly identify and manage arthropathic changes. Accordingly, we 
developed the Joint tissue Activity and Damage Exam (JADE) POC musculoskeletal 
ultrasound (MSKUS) protocol. JADE is validated for haemophilic joint tissue 
recognition with high intra/inter-rater and inter-operator reliability.
AIMS: Evaluate associations of JADE with clinical (Hemophilia Joint Health 
Score, [HJHS]) and functional (total arc [combined flexion and extension range 
of motion [ROM]]) parameters.
METHODOLOGY: In this multi-centre prospective study, we recruited PWH A or B 
with at least one arthropathic joint. We evaluated joint health (both elbows, 
knees, and ankles) by comparing JADE measurements (soft tissue and cartilage 
thickness, and osteochondral alterations) with HJHS and total arc.
RESULTS: Of 44 PWH, most had hemophilia A (35/44), were severe (36/44) and had a 
median age of 36 years. Increasing HJHSs and declining total arc, indicating 
worsening arthropathy, were associated with JADE measurements in the expected 
direction, including (1) increasing length of osteochondral alterations, (2) 
diminished cartilage thickness, and (3) greater soft tissue expansion. The 
ankles had the highest proportion of joints without measurable (missing) 
cartilage. In multivariable models MSKUS measurements explained 68% and 71% of 
the variation in HJHS and total arc respectively for the elbow, 55% and 29% 
respectively for the knee, and 50% and 73% for the ankle.
CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights the associations of direct intra-articular 
ultrasonography measurements using the JADE protocol with clinical and 
functional parameters. Our findings underscore the clinical value of POC MSKUS 
using the JADE protocol as a complementary instrument for the diagnosis and 
management of haemophilic arthropathy.

© 2021 The Authors. Haemophilia published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hae.14368
PMCID: PMC9292691
PMID: 34171150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The research was funded by Pfizer Hemophilia. 
Annette von Drygalski has received honoraria for participating on scientific 
advisory boards, consulting, and speaking engagements for Bioverativ, Sanofi, 
Takeda, Novo‐Nordisk, Biomarin and Uniqure, and has received research funding 
from Bioverativ/Sanofi and Pfizer. Annette von Drygalski is a co‐founder and 
member of the Board of Directors of Hematherix LLC., a company that is 
developing superFVa therapy for bleeding complications. She is the inventor for 
the Joint Activity and Damage Examination (JADE) Ultrasound measurement tool. 
The Jade measurement tool is copyrighted and is commercialized by the University 
of California San Diego. D.V.Q. has received honoraria for participating on 
scientific advisory boards, consulting, or advisory committees, and speakers’ 
bureau for Novo Nordisk, Genentech/Roche, Biomarin, Uniqure, Bayer, 
Bioverativ/Sanofi, and Shire/Takeda. R.K.J. has received honoraria for 
participating on scientific advisory boards and consulting for CSL Behring, 
Roche, Pfizer, Bayer, and Baxalta/Shire. BS has received honoraria for 
participating on scientific advisory boards, consulting, and speaking 
engagements for Bioverativ, Sanofi, Genentech, Roche and Uniqure, and has 
received research funding from Bioverativ/Sanofi, Genentech, Roche, Uniqure and 
Pfizer. The remaining authors have no other conflicts of interest or funding to 
disclose.


808. Disabil Rehabil Assist Technol. 2022 Oct;17(7):801-806. doi: 
10.1080/17483107.2020.1817990. Epub 2021 Jun 25.

Video analysis of safety and reproducibility issues with the timed up-and-go 
test applied to patients with Parkinson's disease.

Fujii C(1), Wakizaka N(2), Araki Y(2), Tashiro K(2), Endou M(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Nursing and Medical Care, Keio University, Fujisawa, Japan.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation, Sakura Jyuji Fukuoka Hospital, Fukuoka, Japan.

PURPOSE: Falls are a major problem and cause poor quality of life and reduced 
life expectancy in people affected by Parkinson's disease (PD). The timed 
up-and-go (TUG) test is the most popular test of walking ability in patients 
with PD. However, it carries a risk of falls because patients are told to walk 
as quickly as possible. The purpose of this study was to characterise issues of 
safety and reproducibility arising in TUG tests.
METHODS: Our population was 7 hospitalised patients (4 men, 3 women) with PD and 
1 healthy control. We used video capture, Motion Analyser software, and an 
innovative Yorisoi (snuggling nursing robot) robot.
RESULTS: We found the same movements when patients walked in time to a verbal 
rhythm provided by the physiotherapist and when they used the robot in walking. 
The TUG times were longest when the therapist provided no intervention. The 
typical PD patient experienced freezing of gait when rounding the reflective 
cone marker in the TUG test, and after turning, experienced gait festination. 
The patient thus encountered difficulty in using the reflective marker. 
Moreover, because of the characteristic PD shuffling gait, the patient's steps 
were difficult to count automatically. After the turn, the patient's body leaned 
heavily; however, if the physiotherapist or the robot applied a light force in 
the direction of the positive axis, it was possible to prevent a fall.
CONCLUSIONS: When applied to patients with PD, the TUG test requires 
modifications for safety and more accurate step counting to improve 
reproducibility.IMPLICATIONS FOR REHABILITATIONThe presence of a sense of 
security with the attendant or the robot is related to walking speed.The TUG 
test must be reproducible in patients with PD, regardless of whether there is a 
rhythm or an attendant, and must be able to count the steps in a shuffling 
gait.The TUG test must consider safety in patients with PD, because it is easier 
to fall after a turn and when sitting on a chair, and it is instructed to be in 
hurry walk.After making a turn, a patient's body may lean heavily; however, if a 
