Outcomes.

Haensli C(1), Pfister IB(1), Garweg JG(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Berner Augenklinik am Lindenhofspital, 3012 Bern, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Inselspital, University of Bern, 3012 Bern, 
Switzerland.

Purpose: The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of switching treatment 
in eyes with neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) and treatment 
intervals of ≤6 weeks to brolucizumab. Methods: In this prospective series, eyes 
with persisting retinal fluid under aflibercept or ranibizumab every 4-6 weeks 
were switched to brolucizumab. Visual acuity (BCVA), reading acuity (RA), 
treatment intervals, central subfield thickness (CST), and the presence of 
intra- and subretinal fluid were recorded over 6 months. Results: Seven of 12 
eyes completed the 6 month follow-up and received 4.4 ± 0.5 brolucizumab 
injections within 28.0 ± 2.8 weeks. Treatment intervals increased from 5.3 ± 0.9 
weeks to 9.0 ± 2.8 weeks (95% confidence interval of extension (CI): 1.6 to 
5.9). BCVA improved from 67.8 ± 7.2 to 72.2 ± 7.5 (95% CI: -0.3 to 9.1) ETDRS 
letters, RA improved from 0.48 ± 0.15 to 0.31 ± 0.17 LogRAD (95% CI: 0.03 to 
0.25), and CST improved from 422.1 ± 97.3 to 353.6 ± 100.9 µm (95% CI: -19.9 to 
157.1). Treatment was terminated early in five eyes (two intraocular 
inflammations with vascular occlusion without vision loss, one stroke, and two 
changes in the treatment plan). Conclusions: Improvement in visual performance 
and longer treatment intervals in our series over 6 months indicate the 
potential of brolucizumab to reduce the treatment burden in nAMD, while two 
instances of intraocular inflammation were encountered.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm10122666
PMCID: PMC8235134
PMID: 34204266

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. 
Commercial relationship disclosures: I.B.P., none; J.G.G., AbbVie, Allergan, 
Chengdu Khanghong, Bayer, and Novartis, all without connection to this work.


898. Medicina (Kaunas). 2021 Jun 17;57(6):630. doi: 10.3390/medicina57060630.

Changes and Associations between Cervical Range of Motion, Pain, 
Temporomandibular Joint Range of Motion and Quality of Life in Individuals with 
Migraine Applying Physiotherapy: A Pilot Study.

Lendraitiene E(1), Smilgiene L(1), Petruseviciene D(1), Savickas R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation, Medical Academy, Lithuanian University of 
Health Sciences, Eiveniu str. 2, LT-50161 Kaunas, Lithuania.

Background and Objectives: The aim of this study was to assess the effects of 
physiotherapy with aerobic exercise together with temporomandibular joint range 
of motion exercises (supervised) and physiotherapy with aerobic exercise only 
(unsupervised), also to review the correlations between neck movements, pain, 
temporomandibular joint range of motion movements and quality of life in 
individuals with migraine. Methods: The flexion, extension and lateral flexion 
of the cervical spine were measured in degrees with a mechanical goniometer and 
pressure pain thresholds with algometer. Quality of life was assessed with the 
SF-36 questionnaire and temporomandibular joint range of motion with a 
centimeter. Results: The study showed statistically significant cervical flexion 
results in both groups (p < 0.05), masticatory muscle results and 
temporomandibular joint range of motion between the groups (p < 0.05). A 
correlation between left upper trapezius muscle pain and cervical lateral 
flexion was observed in the intervention group. Physical activity correlated 
with cervical extension, activity limitation due to physical ailments and 
general health. A correlation between temporomandibular joint and right-side 
masticatory muscles pain was found. A correlation between upper trapezius muscle 
pain and left- as well as right-side temporalis muscles were found in the 
control group. Strong correlations were found between pain and activity 
limitation due to physical ailments and emotional state. The temporomandibular 
joint range of motion strongly correlated with activity limitation due to 
physical ailments. Conclusions: Physiotherapy based on aerobic exercises 
together with temporomandibular joint exercises was more effective than 
physiotherapy based on aerobic exercise for decreasing pain, increasing pressure 
pain thresholds and cervical range of motion.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina57060630
PMCID: PMC8246324
PMID: 34204366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


899. Diagnostics (Basel). 2021 Jun 17;11(6):1105. doi:
10.3390/diagnostics11061105.

Prognostic Factors Associated with Successful Salvage Surgery in Recurrent Oral 
Cancer.

Szewczyk M(1), Golusiński P(2), Pazdrowski J(1), Golusiński W(1).

Author information:
(1)The Greater Poland Cancer Center, Department of Head and Neck Surgery, Poznań 
University of Medical Sciences, Garbary 15, 61-866 Poznań, Poland.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology and Maxillofacial Surgery, University of Zielona 
Góra, Zyty 26, 65-046 Zielona Góra, Poland.

Most patients with recurrent oral cancer are not eligible for salvage surgery. 
Among those who are candidates for surgical salvage, failure rates are high. 
Given the potential negative impact of salvage surgery on quality of life 
(QoL)-particularly in unsuccessful interventions-the decision to operate must be 
weighed carefully. However, the variables associated with successful surgical 
salvage in oral cancer have not been clearly established. In the present 
retrospective study, we sought to determine the factors associated with disease 
recurrence and successful salvage surgery. We evaluated the following parameters 
in patients (n = 261) treated for primary oral cancer at our institution from 
2010 to 2017: age; T/N status; perineurial invasion; lymphovascular invasion; 
extranodal extension; and margin status. In total, 36 patients (33%) were 
considered eligible for salvage surgery. Four variables were significantly 
associated with suitability for salvage surgery: early primary T stage, no 
primary neck disease (N0), no positive margins in the primary resection, and no 
adjuvant radiotherapy following primary resection. The only variable 
significantly associated with improved salvage outcomes was negative margin 
status after the primary tumor resection, underscoring the importance of margin 
status on treatment outcomes. Additional studies are needed to identify other 
factors associated with successful salvage surgery in order to better stratify 
patients according to the likelihood of success, thus potentially avoiding the 
negative impact on QoL in patients who undergo unsuccessful surgery.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics11061105
PMCID: PMC8234389
PMID: 34204488

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


900. Nutrients. 2021 Jun 12;13(6):2028. doi: 10.3390/nu13062028.

Impact of Mediterranean Diet on Chronic Non-Communicable Diseases and Longevity.

Dominguez LJ(1), Di Bella G(1), Veronese N(1), Barbagallo M(1).

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Unit, Department of Medicine, University of Palermo, 90127 Palermo, 
Italy.

The average life expectancy of the world population has increased remarkably in 
the past 150 years and it is still increasing. A long life is a dream of humans 
since the beginning of time but also a dream is to live it in good physical and 
mental condition. Nutrition research has focused on recent decades more on food 
combination patterns than on individual foods/nutrients due to the possible 
synergistic/antagonistic effects of the components in a dietary model. Various 
dietary patterns have been associated with health benefits, but the largest body 
of evidence in the literature is attributable to the traditional dietary habits 
and lifestyle followed by populations from the Mediterranean region. After the 
Seven Countries Study, many prospective observational studies and trials in 
diverse populations reinforced the beneficial effects associated with a higher 
adherence to the Mediterranean diet in reference to the prevention/management of 
age-associated non-communicable diseases, such as cardiovascular and metabolic 
diseases, neurodegenerative diseases, cancer, depression, respiratory diseases, 
and fragility fractures. In addition, the Mediterranean diet is ecologically 
sustainable. Therefore, this immaterial world heritage constitutes a healthy way 
of eating and living respecting the environment.

DOI: 10.3390/nu13062028
PMCID: PMC8231595
PMID: 34204683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.901. Pharmaceutics. 2021 Jun 12;13(6):871. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics13060871.

In Vitro and In Vivo Evaluation of PEGylated Starch-Coated Iron Oxide 
Nanoparticles for Enhanced Photothermal Cancer Therapy.

Amatya R(1), Hwang S(2), Park T(1), Min KA(2), Shin MC(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy and Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Gyeongsang National University, 501 Jinju Daero, Jinju 52828, Gyeongnam, Korea.
(2)College of Pharmacy and Inje Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences and 
Research, Inje University, 197 Injero, Gimhae 50834, Gyeongnam, Korea.

Iron oxide nanoparticles (IONPs) possess versatile utility in cancer 
theranostics, thus, they have drawn enormous interest in the cancer research 
field. Herein, we prepared polyethylene glycol (PEG)-conjugated and 
starch-coated IONPs ("PEG-starch-IONPs"), and assessed their applicability for 
photothermal treatment (PTT) of cancer. The prepared PEG-starch-IONPs were 
investigated for their physical properties by transmission electron microscopy 
(TEM), energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS), X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier 
transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy, and dynamic light scattering (DLS). The 
pharmacokinetic study results showed a significant extension in the plasma 
half-life by PEGylation, which led to a markedly increased (5.7-fold) tumor 
accumulation. When PEG-starch-IONPs were evaluated for their photothermal 
activity, notably, they displayed marked and reproducible heating effects 
selectively on the tumor site with laser irradiation. Lastly, efficacy studies 
demonstrated that PEG-starch-IONPs-based PTT may be a promising mode of cancer 
therapy.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics13060871
PMCID: PMC8231641
PMID: 34204840

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


902. Cells. 2021 Jun 3;10(6):1380. doi: 10.3390/cells10061380.

A Systematic Review on the Role of SIRT1 in Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy.

Domi E(1), Hoxha M(1), Prendi E(2), Zappacosta B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department for Chemical-Toxicological and Pharmacological Evaluation of 
Drugs, Faculty of Pharmacy, Catholic University Our Lady of Good Counsel, Rruga 
Dritan Hoxha, Tirana 1000, Albania.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Catholic University 
Our Lady of Good Counsel, Rruga Dritan Hoxha, Tirana 1000, Albania.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a muscular disease characterized by 
progressive muscle degeneration. Life expectancy is between 30 and 50 years, and 
death is correlated with cardiac or respiratory complications. Currently, there 
is no cure, so there is a great interest in new pharmacological targets. 
Sirtuin1 (SIRT1) seems to be a potential target for DMD. In muscle tissue, SIRT1 
exerts anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects. The aim of this study is to 
summarize all the findings of in vivo and in vitro literature studies about the 
potential role of SIRT1 in DMD. A systematic literature search was performed 
according to PRISMA guidelines. Twenty-three articles satisfied the eligibility 
criteria. It emerged that SIRT1 inhibition led to muscle fragility, while 
conversely its activation improved muscle function. Additionally, resveratrol, a 
SIRT1 activator, has brought beneficial effects to the skeletal, cardiac and 
respiratory muscles by exerting anti-inflammatory activity that leads to reduced 
myofiber wasting.

DOI: 10.3390/cells10061380
PMCID: PMC8229470
PMID: 34205021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


903. Foods. 2021 Jun 3;10(6):1276. doi: 10.3390/foods10061276.

Supplementation of Double Cream Cheese with Allium roseum: Effects on Quality 
Improvement and Shelf-Life Extension.

Gliguem H(1), Ben Hassine D(2), Ben Haj Said L(1)(3), Ben Tekaya I(4), Rahmani 
R(5)(6), Bellagha S(1).

Author information:
(1)UR17AGR01, Research Unit PATIO, National Institute of Agronomy of Tunisia, 
University of Carthage, Valorization of Tunisian Natural Resources and Food 
Heritage through Innovation, Tunis Mahrajène 1082, Tunisia.
(2)Laboratory Materials Molecules and Applications, University of Carthage, 
LRMES 22, IPEST, BP 51, La Marsa 2070, Tunisia.
(3)Higher School of Agriculture, University of Carthage, Mateur 7030, Tunisia.
(4)Food Engineering Department, Higher School of Food Industries, University of 
Carthage, Elkhadra City, Tunis 1003, Tunisia.
(5)Research Unit of Valorisation of Actives Biomolecules, Higher Institute of 
Applied Biology Medenine, University of Gabès, Medenine 4119, Tunisia.
(6)Department of Life Sciences, Faculty of Sciences of Gabès, University of 
Gabès, Gabès 4119, Tunisia.

This study gives a new insight into the direct supplementation of Allium roseum 
leaves in double cream cheese. Allium roseum leaves were added to double cream 
cheese as a powder and a fresh paste. Based on the formulation calculation and 
on sensory analyses, doses of 6% paste and 0.8% powder were used to formulate 
the flavored cheeses. The sensory characteristics of the two double cream 
cheeses were assessed and compared to a plain formula. Cheese samples, stored at 
5 °C, were sampled every 0, 4, 8, 12 and 15 days and analyzed for pH, fat, dry 
contents, yeasts and molds and total coliforms. The positive effects of Allium 
roseum supplementation, either as a powder or as a fresh paste, have been 
proven, based on sensorial, physicochemical, and microbiological qualities. The 
shelf life of cheese samples was also determined through an accelerated shelf 
life test and the Arrhenius equation. The experiments were conducted at 5, 15, 
and 25 °C for 15 days. The results showed a significant shelf life extension for 
flavored double cream cheeses (12 days) versus the plain formula (10 days). The 
use of Allium roseum leaves, as a natural preservative, seems to be a promising 
trend for the formulation of similar dairy products.

DOI: 10.3390/foods10061276
PMCID: PMC8226797
PMID: 34205038

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


904. Antibiotics (Basel). 2021 Jun 19;10(6):743. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics10060743.

Suppressive Antibiotic Treatment in Prosthetic Joint Infections: A Perspective.

Cobo J(1), Escudero-Sanchez R(1).

Author information:
(1)Infectious Disease Department, Hospital Ramón y Cajal, IRYCIS, Ctra. Colmenar 
Viejo, 28034 Madrid, Spain.

The treatment of prosthetic joint infections (PJIs) is a complex matter in which 
surgical, microbiological and pharmacological aspects must be integrated and, 
above all, placed in the context of each patient to make the best decision. 
Sometimes it is not possible to offer curative treatment of the infection, and 
in other cases, the probability that the surgery performed will be successful is 
considered very low. Therefore, indefinite administration of antibiotics with 
the intention of "suppressing" the course of the infection becomes useful. For 
decades, we had little information about suppressive antibiotic treatment (SAT). 
However, due to the longer life expectancy and increase in orthopaedic 
surgeries, an increasing number of patients with infected joint prostheses 
experience complex situations in which SAT should be considered as an 
alternative. In the last 5 years, several studies attempting to answer the many 
questions that arise on this issue have been published. The aim of this 
publication is to review the latest published evidence on SAT.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics10060743
PMCID: PMC8235685
PMID: 34205424

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


905. Molecules. 2021 Jun 21;26(12):3769. doi: 10.3390/molecules26123769.

High Pressure Processing Impact on Alternariol and Aflatoxins of Grape Juice and 
Fruit Juice-Milk Based Beverages.

Pallarés N(1), Sebastià A(1), Martínez-Lucas V(1), González-Angulo M(2), Barba 
FJ(1), Berrada H(1), Ferrer E(1).

Author information:
(1)Preventive Medicine and Public Health, Food Science, Toxicology and Forensic 
Medicine Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Universitat de València, Avda. Vicent 
Andrés Estellés, Burjassot, 46100 València, Spain.
(2)Hiperbaric, S.A., C/Condado de Treviño, 6, 09001 Burgos, Spain.

High-pressure processing (HPP) has emerged over the last 2 decades as a good 
alternative to traditional thermal treatment for food safety and shelf-life 
extension, supplying foods with similar characteristics to those of fresh 
products. Currently, HPP has also been proposed as a useful tool to reduce food 
contaminants, such as pesticides and mycotoxins. The aim of the present study is 
to explore the effect of HPP technology at 600 MPa during 5 min at room 
temperature on alternariol (AOH) and aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) mycotoxins reduction in 
different juice models. The effect of HPP has also been compared with a thermal 
treatment performed at 90 °C during 21 s. For this, different juice models, 
orange juice/milk beverage, strawberry juice/milk beverage and grape juice, were 
prepared and spiked individually with AOH and AFB1 at a concentration of 100 
µg/L. After HPP and thermal treatments, mycotoxins were extracted from treated 
samples and controls by dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction (DLLME) and 
determined by HPLC-MS/MS-IT. The results obtained revealed reduction percentages 
up to 24% for AFB1 and 37% for AOH. Comparing between different juice models, 
significant differences were observed for AFB1 residues in orange juice/milk 
versus strawberry juice/milk beverages after HPP treatment. Moreover, HPP 
resulted as more effective than thermal treatment, being an effective tool to 
incorporate to food industry in order to reach mycotoxins reductions.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules26123769
PMCID: PMC8233776
PMID: 34205651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


906. Sensors (Basel). 2021 Jun 21;21(12):4241. doi: 10.3390/s21124241.

Blue as an Underrated Alternative to Green: Photoplethysmographic Heartbeat 
Intervals Estimation under Two Temperature Conditions.

Shchelkanova E(1), Shchapova L(2), Shchelkanov A(2), Shibata T(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Life Science and Systems Engineering, Kyushu Institute of 
Technology, 2-4 Hibikino, Wakamatsu, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka 808-0135, Japan.
(2)Omsk State Technical University, 11 Prospekt Mira, 644050 Omsk, Russia.

Since photoplethysmography (PPG) sensors are usually placed on open skin areas, 
temperature interference can be an issue. Currently, green light is the most 
widely used in the reflectance PPG for its relatively low artifact 
susceptibility. However, it has been known that hemoglobin absorption peaks at 
the blue part of the spectrum. Despite this fact, blue light has received little 
attention in the PPG field. Blue wavelengths are commonly used in phototherapy. 
Combining blue light-based treatments with simultaneous blue PPG acquisition 
could be potentially used in patients monitoring and studying the biological 
effects of light. Previous studies examining the PPG in blue light compared to 
other wavelengths employed photodetectors with inherently lower sensitivity to 
blue, thereby biasing the results. The present study assessed the accuracy of 
heartbeat intervals (HBIs) estimation from blue and green PPG signals, acquired 
under baseline and cold temperature conditions. Our PPG system is based on 
TCS3472 Color Sensor with equal sensitivity to both parts of the light spectrum 
to ensure unbiased comparison. The accuracy of the HBIs estimates, calculated 
with five characteristic points (PPG systolic peak, maximum of the first PPG 
derivative, maximum of the second PPG derivative, minimum of the second PPG 
derivative, and intersecting tangents) on both PPG signal types, was evaluated 
based on the electrocardiographic values. The statistical analyses demonstrated 
that in all cases, the HBIs estimation accuracy of blue PPG was nearly 
equivalent to the G PPG irrespective of the characteristic point and measurement 
condition. Therefore, blue PPG can be used for cardiovascular parameter 
acquisition. This paper is an extension of work originally presented at the 42nd 
Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology 
Society.

DOI: 10.3390/s21124241
PMCID: PMC8233784
PMID: 34205706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


907. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Jun 21;18(12):6667. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18126667.

Profile Pictures in the Digital World: Self-Photographs Predict Better Life 
Satisfaction.

Hung K(1), Lee NA(2), Peng K(1), Sui J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.
(2)School of Psychology, University of Aberdeen, King's College, Old Aberdeen 
AB24 3FX, UK.

Profiles pictures as online identities represent an extension of the user's self 
in the digital world. Changes in self-representation are responsible for reduced 
well-being in individuals in the offline world. However, whether profile picture 
selection predicts the well-being of internet users is unknown. To address this 
question, we tested the relationship between the type of profile picture (e.g., 
self-photographs or other pictures) used on social media and the life 
satisfaction of internet users, accounting for gender and personality traits 
that have been thought to relate to the selection of profile pictures. The 
results showed that individuals using self-photographs as profiles reported a 
higher level of life satisfaction compared to individuals using other pictures 
as profiles. This effect was influenced by gender, openness, and extraversion. 
Hierarchical regression and moderation analyses revealed that openness and 
profile type interacted to predict life satisfaction in women, while openness 
and profile picture independently predicted life satisfaction in men. 
Furthermore, extraversion directly predicted life satisfaction in both men and 
women. These results indicate that the consistency between one's online and 
offline self-representation may characterize internet users' well-being, with 
potential implications for digital wellness.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18126667
PMCID: PMC8296380
PMID: 34205720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


908. Cancers (Basel). 2021 Jun 22;13(13):3116. doi: 10.3390/cancers13133116.

Plasma Proteomic Analysis in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Patients Treated with 
PD-1/PD-L1 Blockade.

Eltahir M(1)(2), Isaksson J(1)(3), Mattsson JSM(1), Kärre K(4), Botling J(1), 
Lord M(2), Mangsbo SM(2), Micke P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University, 751 85 
Uppsala, Sweden.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Science for Life Laboratory, 
Uppsala University, 751 24 Uppsala, Sweden.
(3)Centre for Research and Development, Uppsala University, Region Gävleborg, 
801 88 Uppsala, Sweden.
(4)Department of Microbiology, Cell and Tumor Biology, Karolinska Institute, 171 
77 Stockholm, Sweden.

Checkpoint inhibitors have been approved for the treatment of non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC). However, only a minority of patients demonstrate a durable 
clinical response. PD-L1 scoring is currently the only biomarker measure 
routinely used to select patients for immunotherapy, but its predictive accuracy 
is modest. The aim of our study was to evaluate a proteomic assay for the 
analysis of patient plasma in the context of immunotherapy. Pretreatment plasma 
samples from 43 NSCLC patients who received anti-PD-(L)1 therapy were analyzed 
using a proximity extension assay (PEA) to quantify 92 different immune 
oncology-related proteins. The plasma protein levels were associated with 
clinical and histopathological parameters, as well as therapy response and 
survival. Unsupervised hierarchical cluster analysis revealed two patient groups 
with distinct protein profiles associated with high and low immune protein 
levels, designated as "hot" and "cold". Further supervised cluster analysis 
based on T-cell activation markers showed that higher levels of T-cell 
activation markers were associated with longer progression-free survival (PFS) 
(p < 0.01). The analysis of single proteins revealed that high plasma levels of 
CXCL9 and CXCL10 and low ADA levels were associated with better response and 
prolonged PFS (p < 0.05). Moreover, in an explorative response prediction model, 
the combination of protein markers (CXCL9, CXCL10, IL-15, CASP8, and ADA) 
resulted in higher accuracy in predicting response than tumor PD-L1 expression 
or each protein assayed individually. Our findings demonstrate a proof of 
concept for the use of multiplex plasma protein levels as a tool for 
anti-PD-(L)1 response prediction in NSCLC. Additionally, we identified protein 
signatures that could predict the response to anti-PD-(L)1 therapy.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers13133116
PMCID: PMC8268315
PMID: 34206510

Conflict of interest statement: S.M.M. is the Chief Innovation Officer of 
Ultimovacs and founder of Immuneed, Vivologica and Strike Pharma. She holds 
shares in the above companies. M.E. and M.L. are co-founders and shareholders in 
Strike Pharma. M.E. is also a shareholder in Ultimovacs. None of the companies 
have taken part in the work presented herein. No other authors declare conflicts 
of interest.


909. Sensors (Basel). 2021 Jun 22;21(13):4269. doi: 10.3390/s21134269.

Deep Learning-Based Stroke Disease Prediction System Using Real-Time Bio 
Signals.

Choi YA(1), Park SJ(2), Jun JA(3), Pyo CS(3), Cho KH(4), Lee HS(5), Yu JH(3).

Author information:
(1)KEPCO Research Institute, Korea Electric Power Corporation, 105 Munji-ro 
Yuseong-gu, Daejeon 34056, Korea.
(2)Research Team for Health & Safety Convergence, Korea Research Institute of 
Standards and Science (KRISS), Daejeon 34113, Korea.
(3)Department of KSB Convergence Research, Electronics and Telecommunications 
Research Institute (ETRI), Daejeon 34129, Korea.
(4)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungnam National University College 
of Medicine, 266 Munhwa-ro Jung-gu, Daejeon 35015, Korea.
(5)School of Creative Convergence, Andong National University, 1375 
Gyeongdong-ro (Songcheon-dong), Andong, Gyeongsangbuk-do 36729, Korea.

The emergence of an aging society is inevitable due to the continued increases 
in life expectancy and decreases in birth rate. These social changes require new 
smart healthcare services for use in daily life, and COVID-19 has also led to a 
contactless trend necessitating more non-face-to-face health services. Due to 
the improvements that have been achieved in healthcare technologies, an 
increasing number of studies have attempted to predict and analyze certain 
diseases in advance. Research on stroke diseases is actively underway, 
particularly with the aging population. Stroke, which is fatal to the elderly, 
is a disease that requires continuous medical observation and monitoring, as its 
recurrence rate and mortality rate are very high. Most studies examining stroke 
disease to date have used MRI or CT images for simple classification. This 
clinical approach (imaging) is expensive and time-consuming while requiring 
bulky equipment. Recently, there has been increasing interest in using 
non-invasive measurable EEGs to compensate for these shortcomings. However, the 
prediction algorithms and processing procedures are both time-consuming because 
the raw data needs to be separated before the specific attributes can be 
obtained. Therefore, in this paper, we propose a new methodology that allows for 
the immediate application of deep learning models on raw EEG data without using 
the frequency properties of EEG. This proposed deep learning-based stroke 
disease prediction model was developed and trained with data collected from 
real-time EEG sensors. We implemented and compared different deep-learning 
models (LSTM, Bidirectional LSTM, CNN-LSTM, and CNN-Bidirectional LSTM) that are 
specialized in time series data classification and prediction. The experimental 
results confirmed that the raw EEG data, when wielded by the CNN-bidirectional 
LSTM model, can predict stroke with 94.0% accuracy with low FPR (6.0%) and FNR 
(5.7%), thus showing high confidence in our system. These experimental results 
demonstrate the feasibility of non-invasive methods that can easily measure 
brain waves alone to predict and monitor stroke diseases in real time during 
daily life. These findings are expected to lead to significant improvements for 
early stroke detection with reduced cost and discomfort compared to other 
measuring techniques.

DOI: 10.3390/s21134269
PMCID: PMC8271462
PMID: 34206540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


910. Life (Basel). 2021 Jun 22;11(7):598. doi: 10.3390/life11070598.

Goal-Oriented Optimization of Dynamic Simulations to Find a Balance between 
Performance Enhancement and Injury Prevention during Volleyball Spiking.

Gupta D(1), Donnelly CJ(2)(3), Jensen JL(4), Reinbolt JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Mechanical, Aerospace and Biomedical Engineering, The University of 
Tennessee, Knoxville, TN 37996, USA.
(2)Rehabilitation Research Institute of Singapore, Nanyang Technological 
University, Singapore 308232, Singapore.
(3)School of Human Sciences (Health and Sport Sciences), The University of 
Western Australia, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia.
(4)Department of Kinesiology and Health Education, The University of Texas at 
Austin, Austin, TX 78712, USA.

Performance enhancement and injury prevention are often perceived as opposite 
sides of a coin, where focusing on improvements of one leads to detriment of the 
other. In this study, we used physics-based simulations with novel optimization 
methods to find participant-specific, whole-body mechanics of volleyball spiking 
that enhances performance (the peak height of the hitting hand and its forward 
velocity) while minimizing injury risk. For the volleyball spiking motion, the 
shoulder is the most common injury site because of the high mechanical loads 
that are most pronounced during the follow-through phase of the movement. We 
analyzed 104 and 209 spiking trials across 13 participants for the power and 
follow-through phases, respectively. During the power phase, simulations 
increased (p < 0.025) the peak height of the hitting wrist by 1% and increased 
(p < 0.025) the forward wrist velocity by 25%, without increasing peak shoulder 
joint torques, by increasing the lower-limb forward swing (i.e., hip flexion, 
knee extension). During the follow-through phase, simulations decreased (p < 
0.025) peak shoulder joint torques by 75% elicited by synergistic rotation of 
the trunk along the pathway of the hitting arm. Our results show that 
performance enhancement and injury prevention are not mutually exclusive and may 
both be improved simultaneously, potentially leading to better-performing and 
injury-free athletes.

DOI: 10.3390/life11070598
PMCID: PMC8303922
PMID: 34206587

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


911. Nutrients. 2021 Jun 26;13(7):2197. doi: 10.3390/nu13072197.

Beneficial Effects of Exogenous Ketogenic Supplements on Aging Processes and 
Age-Related Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Kovács Z(1), Brunner B(1)(2), Ari C(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Savaria University Centre, ELTE Eötvös Loránd 
University, Károlyi Gáspár tér 4., 9700 Szombathely, Hungary.
(2)Faculty of Sciences, Institute of Biology, University of Pécs, Ifjúság Str. 
6, 7624 Pécs, Hungary.
(3)Behavioral Neuroscience Research Laboratory, Department of Psychology, 
University of South Florida, 4202 E. Fowler Ave, PCD 3127, Tampa, FL 33620, USA.
(4)Ketone Technologies LLC, 2780 E. Fowler Ave. #226, Tampa, FL 33612, USA.

Life expectancy of humans has increased continuously up to the present days, but 
their health status (healthspan) was not enhanced by similar extent. To decrease 
enormous medical, economical and psychological burden that arise from this 
discrepancy, improvement of healthspan is needed that leads to delaying both 
aging processes and development of age-related diseases, thereby extending 
lifespan. Thus, development of new therapeutic tools to alleviate aging 
processes and related diseases and to increase life expectancy is a topic of 
increasing interest. It is widely accepted that ketosis (increased blood ketone 
body levels, e.g., β-hydroxybutyrate) can generate neuroprotective effects. 
Ketosis-evoked neuroprotective effects may lead to improvement in health status 
and delay both aging and the development of related diseases through improving 
mitochondrial function, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects, histone and 
non-histone acetylation, β-hydroxybutyrylation of histones, modulation of 
neurotransmitter systems and RNA functions. Administration of exogenous 
ketogenic supplements was proven to be an effective method to induce and 
maintain a healthy state of nutritional ketosis. Consequently, exogenous 
ketogenic supplements, such as ketone salts and ketone esters, may mitigate 
aging processes, delay the onset of age-associated diseases and extend lifespan 
through ketosis. The aim of this review is to summarize the main hallmarks of 
aging processes and certain signaling pathways in association with (putative) 
beneficial influences of exogenous ketogenic supplements-evoked ketosis on 
lifespan, aging processes, the most common age-related neurodegenerative 
diseases (Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis), as well as impaired learning and memory functions.

DOI: 10.3390/nu13072197
PMCID: PMC8308443
PMID: 34206738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Patent: #10980764, University of South Florida, 
C.A., D.P.D. “Exogenous ketone supplements for reducing anxiety-related 
behavior”; Non-provisional patents: Ari, C., Arnold P., D’Agostino, D.P. 
Technology Title: “Elevated Blood Ketone Levels by Ketogenic Diet or Exogenous 
Ketone Supplements Induced Increased Latency of Anesthetic Induction” USF Ref. 
No. 16A018PR ; Ari, C., Arnold P., D’Agostino, D.P. Technology Title: “Exogenous 
Ketone Supplementation Improved Motor Function in Sprague-Dawley Rats.” USF Ref. 
No: 16A019; Ari, C., Arnold P., D’Agostino, D.P. Technology Title: “Lowering of 
Blood Glucose in Exercising and Non-Exercising Rats Following Administration of 
Exogenous Ketones and Ketone Formulas.” USF Ref. No: 16A049; Ari, C., Arnold P., 
D’Agostino, D.P. Technology Title: “Neuroregeneration improved by ketone.” USF 
Ref. No: 16B128 (provisional patent); Ari, C., D’Agostino, D.P. Dean, J.B. 
Technology Title: “Delaying latency to seizure by combinations of ketone 
supplements.” USF Ref. No: 16B138PR. C. Ari is co-owner of Ketone Technologies 
LLC, and owner of Fortis World LLC. These interests have been reviewed and 
managed by the University in accordance with its Institutional and Individual 
Conflict of Interest policies. All authors declare that there are no additional 
conflict of interest.


912. Cancers (Basel). 2021 Jun 18;13(12):3041. doi: 10.3390/cancers13123041.

Novel Cyclophilin Inhibitor Decreases Cell Proliferation and Tumor Growth in 
Models of Hepatocellular Carcinoma.

Simón Serrano S(1)(2), Tavecchio M(2)(3), Grönberg A(2), Sime W(1), Jemaà M(1), 
Moss S(4), Gregory MA(4), Gallay P(5), Elmér E(2)(3), Hansson MJ(2)(3), Massoumi 
R(1).

Author information:
(1)Translational Cancer Research, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Lund 
University, Medicon Village, 223 63 Lund, Sweden.
(2)Abliva AB, Medicon Village, Scheelevägen 2, SE-233 81 Lund, Sweden.
(3)Mitochondrial Medicine, Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund University, BMC 
A13, SE-221 84 Lund, Sweden.
(4)Isomerase Therapeutics Ltd., Suite 9, Science Village, Chesterford Research 
Park, Cambridge CB10 1XL, UK.
(5)Department of Immunology & Microbial Science, The Scripps Research Institute, 
La Jolla, CA 92037, USA.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the most common primary liver cancer, is usually 
diagnosed in its late state. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as sorafenib and 
regorafenib are one of the few treatment options approved for advanced HCC and 
only prolong the patient's life expectancy by a few months. Therefore, there is 
a need for novel effective treatments. Cyclophilins are intracellular proteins 
that catalyze the cis/trans isomerization of peptide bonds at proline residues. 
Cyclophilins are known to be overexpressed in HCC, affecting therapy resistance 
and cell proliferation. In the present study, we explored the potential of 
cyclophilin inhibitors as new therapeutic options for HCC in vitro and in vivo. 
Our results showed that the novel cyclophilin inhibitor, NV651, was able to 
significantly decrease proliferation in a diverse set of HCC cell lines. The 
exposure of HCC cells to NV651 caused an accumulation of cells during mitosis 
and consequent accumulation in the G2/M phase of the cell cycle. NV651 reduced 
tumor growth in vivo using an HCC xenograft model without affecting the body 
weights of the animals. The safety aspects of NV651 were also confirmed in 
primary human hepatocytes without any cytotoxic effects. Based on the results 
obtained in this study, we propose NV651 as a potential treatment strategy for 
HCC.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers13123041
PMCID: PMC8234462
PMID: 34207224

Conflict of interest statement: S.S.S., M.T., A.G., E.E. and M.J.H are employees 
of Abliva AB, which holds the commercial rights to NV651. S.S.S., A.G., E.E. and 
M.J.H. own shares in Abliva. M.A.G. and S.M. are employees of and own shares in 
Isomerase Therapeutics Ltd. P.G., M.J., W.S. and R.M. declare no potential 
conflicts of interest.


913. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Jun 9;22(12):6223. doi: 10.3390/ijms22126223.

Bilirubin: A Promising Therapy for Parkinson's Disease.

Jayanti S(1)(2)(3), Moretti R(4), Tiribelli C(1), Gazzin S(1).

Author information:
(1)Fondazione Italiana Fegato-Onlus, Bldg. Q, AREA Science Park, ss14, Km 163.5, 
Basovizza, 34149 Trieste, Italy.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Hasanuddin, Makassar 90245, Indonesia.
(3)Molecular Biomedicine Ph.D. Program, University of Trieste, 34127 Trieste, 
Italy.
(4)Neurology Clinic, Department of Medical, Surgical, and Health Sciences, 
University of Trieste, 34139 Trieste, Italy.

Following the increase in life expectancy, the prevalence of Parkinson's disease 
(PD) as the most common movement disorder is expected to rise. Despite the 
incredibly huge efforts in research to find the definitive biomarker, to date, 
the diagnosis of PD still relies mainly upon clinical symptoms. A wide range of 
treatments is available for PD, mainly alleviating the clinical symptoms. 
However, none of these current therapies can stop or even slow down the disease 
evolution. Hence, disease-modifying treatment is still a paramount unmet medical 
need. On the other side, bilirubin and its enzymatic machinery and precursors 
have offered potential benefits by targeting multiple mechanisms in chronic 
diseases, including PD. Nevertheless, only limited discussions are available in 
the context of neurological conditions, particularly in PD. Therefore, in this 
review, we profoundly discuss this topic to understand bilirubin's therapeutical 
potential in PD.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22126223
PMCID: PMC8228391
PMID: 34207581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


914. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Jun 11;22(12):6290. doi: 10.3390/ijms22126290.

Multidiscipline Immunotherapy-Based Rational Combinations for Robust and Durable 
Efficacy in Brain Metastases from Renal Cell Carcinoma.

Lee HW(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Urologic Cancer, National Cancer Center, Department of Urology, 
Goyang 10408, Korea.

Advanced imaging techniques for diagnosis have increased awareness on the 
benefits of brain screening, facilitated effective control of extracranial 
disease, and prolonged life expectancy of metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) 
patients. Brain metastasis (BM) in patients with mRCC (RCC-BM) is associated 
with grave prognoses, a high degree of morbidity, dedicated assessment, and 
unresponsiveness to conventional systemic therapeutics. The therapeutic 
landscape of RCC-BM is rapidly changing; however, survival outcomes remain poor 
despite standard surgery and radiation, highlighting the unmet medical needs and 
the requisite for advancement in systemic therapies. Immune checkpoint 
inhibitors (ICIs) are one of the most promising strategies to treat RCC-BM. 
Understanding the role of brain-specific tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) is 
important for developing rationale-driven ICI-based combination strategies that 
circumvent tumor intrinsic and extrinsic factors and complex positive feedback 
loops associated with resistance to ICIs in RCC-BM via combination with ICIs 
involving other immunological pathways, anti-antiangiogenic multiple tyrosine 
kinase inhibitors, and radiotherapy; therefore, novel combination approaches are 
being developed for synergistic potential against RCC-BM; however, further 
prospective investigations with longer follow-up periods are required to improve 
the efficacy and safety of combination treatments and to elucidate dynamic 
predictive biomarkers depending on the interactions in the brain TIME.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22126290
PMCID: PMC8230742
PMID: 34208157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


915. Cancers (Basel). 2021 Jun 11;13(12):2942. doi: 10.3390/cancers13122942.

Life after Cell Death-Survival and Survivorship Following Chemotherapy.

Mc Erlain T(1), Burke A(1), Branco CM(1).

Author information:
(1)Patrick G Johnston Centre for Cancer Research, Queen's University Belfast, 
Belfast BT9 7AE, UK.

To prevent cancer cells replacing and outnumbering their functional somatic 
counterparts, the most effective solution is their removal. Classical treatments 
rely on surgical excision, chemical or physical damage to the cancer cells by 
conventional interventions such as chemo- and radiotherapy, to eliminate or 
reduce tumour burden. Cancer treatment has in the last two decades seen the 
advent of increasingly sophisticated therapeutic regimens aimed at selectively 
targeting cancer cells whilst sparing the remaining cells from severe loss of 
viability or function. These include small molecule inhibitors, monoclonal 
antibodies and a myriad of compounds that affect metabolism, angiogenesis or 
immunotherapy. Our increased knowledge of specific cancer types, stratified 
diagnoses, genetic and molecular profiling, and more refined treatment practices 
have improved overall survival in a significant number of patients. Increased 
survival, however, has also increased the incidence of associated challenges of 
chemotherapy-induced morbidity, with some pathologies developing several years 
after termination of treatment. Long-term care of cancer survivors must 
therefore become a focus in itself, such that along with prolonging life 
expectancy, treatments allow for improved quality of life.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers13122942
PMCID: PMC8231100
PMID: 34208331

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


916. Nutrients. 2021 Jun 16;13(6):2059. doi: 10.3390/nu13062059.

Grape-Seed Proanthocyanidin Extract Reverts Obesity-Related Metabolic 
Derangements in Aged Female Rats.

Sierra-Cruz M(1), Miguéns-Gómez A(1), Grau-Bové C(1), Rodríguez-Gallego E(1), 
Blay M(1), Pinent M(1), Ardévol A(1), Terra X(1), Beltrán-Debón R(1).

Author information:
(1)MoBioFood Research Group, Department of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, 
Universitat Rovira i Virgili, 43007 Tarragona, Spain.

Obesity and ageing are current issues of global concern. Adaptive homeostasis is 
compromised in the elderly, who are more likely to suffer age-related health 
issues, such as obesity, metabolic syndrome, and cardiovascular disease. The 
current worldwide prevalence of obesity and higher life expectancy call for new 
strategies for treating metabolic disorders. Grape-seed proanthocyanidin extract 
(GSPE) is reported to be effective in ameliorating these pathologies, especially 
in young animal models. In this study, we aimed to test the effectiveness of 
GSPE in modulating obesity-related pathologies in aged rats fed an obesogenic 
diet. To do so, 21-month-old rats were fed a high-fat/high-sucrose diet 
(cafeteria diet) for 11 weeks. Two time points for GSPE administration (500 
mg/kg body weight), i.e., a 10-day preventive GSPE treatment prior to cafeteria 
diet intervention and a simultaneous GSPE treatment with the cafeteria diet, 
were assayed. Body weight, metabolic parameters, liver steatosis, and systemic 
inflammation were analysed. GSPE administered simultaneously with the cafeteria 
diet was effective in reducing body weight, total adiposity, and liver 
steatosis. However, the preventive treatment was effective in reducing only 
mesenteric adiposity in these obese, aged rats. Our results confirm that the 
simultaneous administration of GSPE improves metabolic disruptions caused by the 
cafeteria diet also in aged rats.

DOI: 10.3390/nu13062059
PMCID: PMC8234113
PMID: 34208508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


917. J Clin Med. 2021 Jun 16;10(12):2650. doi: 10.3390/jcm10122650.

Do the Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) Tests That Are Ordered in Clinical 
Practice Adhere to the Pertinent Guidelines?

Bernal-Soriano MC(1)(2), Parker LA(1)(2), López-Garrigós M(2)(3), 
Hernández-Aguado I(1)(2), Gómez-Pérez L(4)(5), Caballero-Romeu JP(6)(7), 
Pastor-Valero M(1)(2), García N(6), Alfayate-Guerra R(8), Lumbreras B(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University Miguel Hernández de Elche, 03550 
Alicante, Spain.
(2)CIBER de Epidemiología y Salud Pública (CIBERESP), 28029 Madrid, Spain.
(3)Clinical Laboratory Department, University Hospital of San Juan de Alicante, 
Sant Joan d'Alacant, 03550 Alicante, Spain.
(4)Urology Department, University Hospital of San Juan de Alicante, 03550 
Alicante, Spain.
(5)Pathology and Surgery Department, Miguel Hernández University of Elche, 03550 
Alicante, Spain.
(6)Department of Urology, University General Hospital of Alicante, 03010 
Alicante, Spain.
(7)Alicante Institute for Health and Biomedical Research (ISABIAL), 03010 
Alicante, Spain.
(8)Clinical Laboratory Department, University General Hospital of Alicante, 
03010 Alicante, Spain.

Scientific societies have provided guidelines to reduce PSA-specific harms. We 
studied the potential non-compliance of PSA testing with current guidelines in 
general practice. A cross-sectional study of a random sample of 1291 patients 
with a PSA test was performed between January and April 2018 in primary health 
care. Patients with a previous prostate cancer diagnosis or those who were being 
followed-up for previous high PSA values were excluded. Two independent 
researchers classified whether each test was potentially non-compliant with 
recommendations. We estimated frequencies of potentially non-compliant PSA 
determinations and calculated prevalence ratios (PR) to assess their 
relationship with possible explanatory variables. A total of 66% (95% CI: 
62-69%) of PSA requests in asymptomatic patients were potentially non-compliant 
with the current guideline. This was associated with having a previous diagnosis 
of neoplasm (PR adjusted by age and life expectancy: 1.18; 95% CI: 1.02-1.37) as 
well as being a current consumer of tobacco, alcohol, or other drugs (PR: 0.80; 
95% CI: 0.67-0.97). Real world data shows that patients are still frequently 
exposed to overdiagnosis risk with a PSA potentially non-compliant with 
recommendations. Patients diagnosed with another neoplasm or non-consumers of 
toxic substances were more exposed, probably due to increased contact with 
doctors or health-seeking behaviour.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm10122650
PMCID: PMC8234229
PMID: 34208627

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


918. Nutrients. 2021 Jun 29;13(7):2222. doi: 10.3390/nu13072222.

The Role of Micronutrients in Ageing Asia: What Can Be Implemented with the 
Existing Insights.

Inui T(1), Hanley B(2), Tee ES(3), Nishihira J(4), Tontisirin K(5), Van Dael 
P(6), Eggersdorfer M(7).

Author information:
(1)DSM Nutritional Products, Tokyo 105-0011, Japan.
(2)Academic Centre for Dentistry Amsterdam (ACTA), Department of Oral Microbial 
Ecology, 1081 LA Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Nutrition Society of Malaysia, Petaling Jaya 46150, Selangor, Malaysia.
(4)Department of Medical Management and Informatics, Hokkaido Information 
University, Hokkaido 069-8585, Japan.
(5)Institute of Nutrition, Mahidol University at Salaya, Nakhorn Pathom 73170, 
Thailand.
(6)DSM Nutritional Products, CH-4303 Kaiseraugst, Switzerland.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine, University Medical Center Groningen, 9713 GZ 
Groningen, The Netherlands.

Life expectancy as a measure of population health does not reflect years of 
healthy life. The average life expectancy in the Asia-Pacific region has more 
than doubled since 1900 and is now above 70 years. In the Asia-Pacific region, 
the proportion of aged people in the population is expected to double between 
2017 and 2050. Increased life expectancy leads to an increase in 
non-communicable diseases, which consequently affects quality of life. 
Suboptimal nutritional status is a contributing factor to the prevalence and 
severity of non-communicable diseases, including cardiovascular, cognitive, 
musculoskeletal, immune, metabolic and ophthalmological functions. We have 
reviewed the published literature on nutrition and healthy ageing as it applies 
to the Asia-Pacific region, focusing on vitamins, minerals/trace elements and 
omega-3 fatty acids. Optimal nutritional status needs to start before a senior 
age is reached and before the consequences of the disease process are 
irreversible. Based on the nutritional status and health issues in the senior 
age in the region, micronutrients of particular importance are vitamins A, D, E, 
C, B-12, zinc and omega-3 fatty acids. The present paper substantiates the 
creation of micronutrient guidelines and proposes actions to support the 
achievement of optimal nutritional status as contribution to healthy ageing for 
Asia-Pacific populations.

DOI: 10.3390/nu13072222
PMCID: PMC8308403
PMID: 34209491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: T.I. and P.V.D. are employees of DSM. E.-S.T. is 
President of the Nutrition Society of Malaysia. M.E. acts as an advisor for DSM 
and received travel reimbursement from DSM. He is member of the Scientific Board 
of PM International and President of the Gesellschaft für angewandte 
Vitaminforschung.


919. Life (Basel). 2021 Jun 29;11(7):628. doi: 10.3390/life11070628.

Idiopathic Infertility as a Feature of Genome Instability.

Puzuka A(1)(2), Alksere B(1)(3), Gailite L(1), Erenpreiss J(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Scientific Laboratory of Molecular Genetics, Riga Stradins University, 
LV-1007 Riga, Latvia.
(2)Department of Biology and Microbiology, Riga Stradins University, LV-1007 
Riga, Latvia.
(3)EAA Andrology Centre, Clinic IVF-Riga, LV-1010 Riga, Latvia.

Genome instability may play a role in severe cases of male infertility, with 
disrupted spermatogenesis being just one manifestation of decreased general 
health and increased morbidity. Here, we review the data on the association of 
male infertility with genetic, epigenetic, and environmental alterations, the 
causes and consequences, and the methods for assessment of genome instability. 
Male infertility research has provided evidence that spermatogenic defects are 
often not limited to testicular dysfunction. An increased incidence of 
urogenital disorders and several types of cancer, as well as overall reduced 
health (manifested by decreased life expectancy and increased morbidity) have 
been reported in infertile men. The pathophysiological link between decreased 
life expectancy and male infertility supports the notion of male infertility 
being a systemic rather than an isolated condition. It is driven by the 
accumulation of DNA strand breaks and premature cellular senescence. We have 
presented extensive data supporting the notion that genome instability can lead 
to severe male infertility termed "idiopathic oligo-astheno-teratozoospermia." 
We have detailed that genome instability in men with 
oligo-astheno-teratozoospermia (OAT) might depend on several genetic and 
epigenetic factors such as chromosomal heterogeneity, aneuploidy, 
micronucleation, dynamic mutations, RT, PIWI/piRNA regulatory pathway, 
pathogenic allelic variants in repair system genes, DNA methylation, 
environmental aspects, and lifestyle factors.

DOI: 10.3390/life11070628
