Allied Hospital Faisalabad, Pakistan.

Burn injury may result in psychological and physical disability. Post-burn 
contractures, a poor outcome of the wound healing process, may limit the 
movement at the joints and impair the quality of life of the survivors. To 
compare outcomes of paraffin wax bath therapy and therapeutic ultrasound in 
post-burn contractures of small joints of the hand; eighty patients with 
post-burn contractures were enrolled in this study. Patients were divided into 
two groups; group I (n=40) was treated with ultrasound therapy and group II 
(n=40) with paraffin wax bath therapy, while stretching exercises & protocols 
for massage of the burn scar contracture were the same for both groups. The 
study participants were assessed for passive range of motion (P-ROM) for the 
extension at inter-phalangeal (IP) joints of the involved finger at the first 
contact session and the end of the 8th week of the treatment. The mean age of 
the patients was 25.62 years in Group-I and 24.67 years in group II. Group-I had 
29 (72.5%) males and 11 (27.5%) females and group-II had 37 (92.5%) males and 
37.5%) females. After 8 weeks of treatment, Group-I displayed improvement in 
range of motion with a mean increase of 4.97 ± SD 0.94 degrees while Group-II 
showed a mean increase of 9.37 ± SD 4.41 degrees with P value of <0.005. 
Paraffin wax therapy with stretching exercises and massage were more effective 
as compared to ultrasound therapy with stretching exercises and massage for the 
management of post-burn contractures of small joints of the hand.

IJBT Copyright © 2021.

PMCID: PMC8310878
PMID: 34336391

Conflict of interest statement: None.


292. Cureus. 2021 Jun 26;13(6):e15933. doi: 10.7759/cureus.15933. eCollection
2021  Jun.

Preoperative Evaluation of Parkinson's Disease.

Woodruff BC(1), Garcia D(1), Chaudhari S(2).

Author information:
(1)Anesthesiology, Metropolitan Hospital Center, New York, USA.
(2)Geriatrics, Metropolitan Hospital Center, New York, USA.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common disease of older adults. It presents a 
unique set of anesthetic challenges. With increasing life expectancy and the 
rapid growth of oldest-old patients, it is now more likely for anesthesiologists 
to encounter older patients with PD. Due to polypharmacy in the older adults 
with PD a potential for drug interactions during and after surgery needs to be 
considered. More data from prospective, multicenter trials about short- and 
long-term outcomes of anesthesia in PD patients are needed.

Copyright © 2021, Woodruff et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.15933
PMCID: PMC8311805
PMID: 34336434

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


293. Cureus. 2021 Jun 26;13(6):e15943. doi: 10.7759/cureus.15943. eCollection
2021  Jun.

Mechanisms and Potential Treatment Options of Heart Failure in Patients With 
Multiple Myeloma.

Proskuriakova E(1), Jada K(1), Kakieu Djossi S(2), Khedr A(1), Neupane B(1), 
Mostafa JA(3).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine, California Institute of Behavioral Neurosciences & 
Psychology, Fairfield, USA.
(2)Research, California Institute of Behavioral Neurosciences & Psychology, 
Fairfield, USA.
(3)Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and Research Field, California Institute of 
Behavioral Neurosciences & Psychology, Fairfield, USA.

Multiple myeloma is a pathology of plasma cells, with one of the most common 
side effects of its treatment is heart failure. In addition, cardiac amyloidosis 
could cause heart failure by itself. Even though mechanisms of cardiac 
amyloidosis are known, and they involve lysosomal dysfunction, reactive oxygen 
species (ROS) accumulation, and infiltrative effect by fibrils, there is no 
specific agent that could protect from these effects. While the molecular 
mechanism of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity via topoisomerase II β is established, 
the only FDA-approved agent for treatment is dexrazoxane. Liposomal doxorubicin 
can potentially improve response and decrease the development of heart failure 
due to microscopic liposomes that can accumulate and penetrate only tumor 
vasculature. Supplements that enhance mitochondrial biogenesis are also shown to 
improve doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. Other agents, such as JR-311, 
ICRF-193, and ursolic acid, could potentially become new treatment options. 
Proteasome inhibitors, novel agents, have significantly improved survival rates 
among multiple myeloma patients. They act on a proteasome system that is highly 
active in cardiomyocytes and activates various molecular cascades in malignant 
cells, as well as in the heart, through nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kB), 
endoplasmic reticulum (ER), calcineurin-nuclear factor of activated T-cells 
(NFAT), and adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPKa)/autophagy 
pathways. Metformin, apremilast, and rutin have shown positive results in animal 
studies and may become a promising therapy as cardioprotective agents. This 
article aims to highlight the main molecular mechanisms of heart failure among 
patients with multiple myeloma and potential treatment options to facilitate the 
development and research of new preventive strategies. Hence, this will have a 
positive impact on life expectancy in patients with multiple myeloma.

Copyright © 2021, Proskuriakova et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.15943
PMCID: PMC8312996
PMID: 34336442

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


294. Prev Med Rep. 2021 Jul 15;23:101495. doi: 10.1016/j.pmedr.2021.101495. 
eCollection 2021 Sep.

Preventive care practices to address health behaviours among people living with 
mental health conditions: A survey of Community Managed Organisations.

Gibson L(1)(2)(3), Clinton-McHarg T(1)(2)(3), Wilczynska M(1)(4), Latter J(1), 
Bartlem K(1)(2)(4)(3), Henderson C(5), Wiggers J(2)(4)(6)(3), Wilson A(2)(7), 
Searles A(2)(3), Bowman J(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychological Sciences, College of Engineering, Science & 
Environment, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, NSW, Australia.
(2)The Australian Prevention Partnership Centre (TAPPC), Sax Institute, Ultimo, 
NSW, Australia.
(3)Hunter Medical Research Institute, New Lambton Heights, NSW, Australia.
(4)Hunter New England Population Health, Hunter New England Local Health 
District, Wallsend, NSW, Australia.
(5)Mental Health Coordinating Council, Lilyfield, NSW, Australia.
(6)School of Medicine and Public Health, Faculty of Health and Medicine, The 
University of Newcastle, Callaghan, NSW, Australia.
(7)Menzies Centre for Health Policy, School of Public Health, University of 
Sydney, Australia.

People living with mental health conditions have a reduced life expectancy of 
approximately 10 years compared to the general population, largely due to 
physical chronic diseases and higher rates of tobacco smoking, poor nutrition, 
harmful alcohol consumption, physical inactivity and poor sleep behaviours. 
Community managed organisations (CMOs) may play a valuable role in providing 
preventive care to people with mental health conditions (consumers) to address 
these health behaviours. This paper reports the findings of a cross-sectional 
survey undertaken between November 2018 and February 2019 with leaders of CMOs 
(n = 76) that support people with mental health conditions in the state of New 
South Wales, Australia to: 1) measure the provision of preventive care 
(screening, support, and connections to specialist services) for five health 
behaviours; 2) identify the presence of key organisational features (e.g., data 
collection, staff training); and 3) explore if these organisational features 
were associated with the provision of preventive care. Preventive care provision 
to a majority of consumers (50% or more) was least frequently reported for 
tobacco smoking and most frequently reported for physical activity. Staff 
training and guidelines regarding the provision of preventive care were 
associated with the provision of such care. The results demonstrate that CMOs 
are already engaged in providing preventive care to some extent, with certain 
behaviours and preventive care elements addressed more frequently than others. 
Further research with additional CMO stakeholders, including staff and 
consumers, is needed to gain a deeper understanding of factors that may underlie 
CMOs capacity to routinely provide preventive care.

© 2021 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.pmedr.2021.101495
PMCID: PMC8313583
PMID: 34336560

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


295. Front Public Health. 2021 Jul 16;9:615152. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2021.615152. 
eCollection 2021.

Study on Environmental and Lifestyle Factors for the North-South Differential of 
Cardiovascular Disease in China.

Wang M(1), Huang Y(1), Song Y(1), Chen J(1), Liu X(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Geographic Sciences, Nantong University, Nantong, China.

Human death and life span are closely related to the geographical environment 
and regional lifestyle. These factors considerably vary among counties and 
regions, leading to the geographical disparity of disease. Quantitative studies 
on this phenomenon are insufficient. Cerebrovascular and heart diseases are the 
leading causes of death. The mortality rate of cerebrovascular and heart 
diseases is statistically higher in northern China than in southern China; the 
p-value of t-test for cerebrovascular and heart diseases was 0.047 and 0.000, 
respectively. The population attribution fraction of 12 major risk factors for 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) in each province was calculated based on their 
exposure and relative risk. The results found that residents in northern China 
consume high sodium-containing food, fewer vegetables, and less sea food 
products, and tend to be overweight. Fine particulate matter is higher in 
northern China than in southern China. Cold temperatures also cause a greater 
number of deaths than hot temperatures. All these factors have resulted in a 
higher CVD mortality rate in northern China. The attributive differential for 
sodium, vegetable, fruit, smoking, PM2.5, omega-3, obesity, low temperature, and 
high temperature of heart disease between the two parts of China is 9.1, 0.7, 
-2.5, 0.1, 1.4, 1.3, 2.0, 4.7, and -2.1%, respectively. Furthermore, the 
attributive differential for the above factors of cerebrovascular disease 
between the two parts of China is 8.7, 0.0, -5.2, 0.1, 1.0, 0.0, 2.4, 4.7, and 
-2.1%. Diet high in sodium is the leading cause of the north-south differential 
in CVD, resulting in 0.71 less years of life expectancy in northern compared 
with that in southern China.

Copyright © 2021 Wang, Huang, Song, Chen and Liu.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2021.615152
PMCID: PMC8322531
PMID: 34336751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


296. Front Nutr. 2021 Jul 15;8:696212. doi: 10.3389/fnut.2021.696212. eCollection
 2021.

Shelf-Life Extension of Refrigerated Turbot (Scophthalmus maximus) by Using 
Weakly Acidic Electrolyzed Water and Active Coatings Containing Daphnetin 
Emulsions.

Liu W(1)(2)(3)(4), Wang Q(1)(2)(3)(4), Mei J(1)(2)(3)(4), Xie J(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Food Science and Technology, Shanghai Ocean University, Shanghai, 
China.
(2)Center for Food Science and Engineering, National Experimental Teaching 
Demonstration, Shanghai Ocean University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Center of Aquatic Product Processing and Preservation, Shanghai Engineering 
Research, Shanghai Ocean University, Shanghai, China.
(4)Shanghai Professional Technology Service Platform on Cold Chain Equipment 
Performance and Energy Saving Evaluation, Shanghai Ocean University, Shanghai, 
China.

This research was to investigate the effect of weakly acidic electrolytic water 
(WAEW) treatments combining with the locust bean gum (LBG) and sodium alginate 
(SA) active coatings, containing daphnetin emulsions on microbiological, 
physicochemical, and sensory changes of turbot (Scophthalmus maximus) during 
refrigerated storage at 4°C for 24 days. Results showed that WAEW, together with 
LBG-SA coatings containing daphnetin emulsions treatments, could significantly 
lower the total viable count (TVC), H2S-producing bacteria, pseudomonas spp., 
and psychrotrophic bacteria counts, and inhibit the productions of off-flavor 
compounds, including the total volatile basic nitrogen (TVB-N), inosine (HxR), 
and hypoxanthine (Hx). Furthermore, the treatments also prevented textural 
deterioration, delayed water migration, and had higher organoleptic evaluation 
results. Therefore, WAEW, together with LBG-SA coatings, containing daphnetin 
emulsions treatments, had the potential to improve the quality of turbot during 
refrigerated storage.

Copyright © 2021 Liu, Wang, Mei and Xie.

DOI: 10.3389/fnut.2021.696212
PMCID: PMC8319538
PMID: 34336910

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


297. Alzheimers Dement (N Y). 2021 Jul 27;7(1):e12200. doi: 10.1002/trc2.12200. 
eCollection 2021.

Global mortality from dementia: Application of a new method and results from the 
Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

GBD 2019 Collaborators.

Collaborators: Nichols E, Abd-Allah F, Abdoli A, Abosetugn AE, Abrha WA, 
Abualhasan A, Abu-Gharbieh E, Akinyemi RO, Alahdab F, Alanezi FM, Alipour V, 
Ansari I, Arabloo J, Ashraf-Ganjouei A, Avan A, Ayano G, Babar ZU, Baig AA, 
Banach M, Barboza MA, Barker-Collo SL, Baune BT, Bhagavathula AS, Bhattacharyya 
K, Bijani A, Biondi A, Birhan TA, Biswas A, Bolla SR, Boloor A, Brayne C, 
Brenner H, Burkart K, Burns RA, Nagaraja SB, Carvalho F, Castro-de-Araujo LFS, 
Catalá-López F, Cerin E, Cernigliaro A, Cherbuin N, Choi JJ, Chu DT, Dagnew B, 
Dai X, Dandona L, Dandona R, Diaz D, Forooshani ZSD, Douiri A, Duncan BB, 
Edvardsson D, El-Jaafary SI, Eskandari K, Eskandarieh S, Feigin VL, 
Fereshtehnejad SM, Fernandes E, Ferrara P, Filip I, Fischer F, Gaidhane S, 
Gebregzabiher KZ, Ghashghaee A, Gholamian A, Gnedovskaya EV, Golechha M, Gupta 
R, Hachinski V, Hamidi S, Hankey GJ, Haro JM, Hassan A, Hay SI, Heidari G, 
Heidari-Soureshjani R, Househ M, Hussain R, Hwang BF, Ilic IM, Ilic MD, Irvani 
SSN, Iso H, Iwagami M, Jha RP, Kalani R, Kandel H, Karch A, Kasa AS, Kengne AP, 
Kim YE, Kim YJ, Kisa S, Kisa A, Kivimäki M, Komaki H, Koyanagi A, Kukull WA, 
Kumar GA, Kumar M, Landires I, Leonardi M, Lim SS, Liu X, Logroscino G, Lopez 
AD, Lorkowski S, Loy CT, Amin HIM, Manafi N, Manjunatha N, Mehndiratta MM, 
Menezes RG, Meretoja A, Merkin A, Metekiya WM, Misganaw AT, Mohajer B, Ibrahim 
NM, Mohammad Y, Mohapatra A, Mohebi F, Mokdad AH, Mondello S, Mossie TB, 
Mulugeta A, Nagel G, Naveed M, Nayak VC, Kandel SN, Nguyen SH, Nguyen HLT, 
Nuñez-Samudio V, Ogbo FA, Olagunju AT, Orru H, Ostojic SM, Ostroff SM, Otstavnov 
N, Otstavnov SS, Owolabi MO, Pathak M, Toroudi HP, Peterson CB, Pham HQ, 
Phillips MR, Piradov MA, Pottoo FH, Prada SI, Pribadi DRA, Radfar A, Raggi A, 
Rahim F, Ram P, Rana J, Rashedi V, Rawaf S, Rawaf DL, Reinig N, Rezaei N, 
Robinson SR, Romoli M, Sachdev PS, Sahathevan R, Sahebkar A, Sahraian MA, Sattin 
D, Saylan M, Sayyah M, Schiavolin S, Schmidt MI, Shahid I, Shaikh MA, Shigematsu 
M, Shin JI, Shiri R, Siddiqi TJ, Silva JP, Singh JA, Soheili A, Spurlock EE, 
Szoeke CEI, Tabarés-Seisdedos R, Taddele BW, Thakur B, ThekkePurakkal AS, 
Tovani-Palone MR, Tran BX, Travillian RS, Tripathi M, Tsegaye GW, Usman MS, 
Vacante M, Velazquez DZ, Venketasubramanian N, Vidale S, Vlassov V, Wang YP, Wei 
J, Weiss J, Weldemariam AH, Wimo A, Wu C, Yadollahpour A, Yamagishi K, Yeshitila 
YG, Yonemoto N, Zadey S, Zhang ZJ, Murray CJL, Vos T.

INTRODUCTION: Dementia is currently one of the leading causes of mortality 
globally, and mortality due to dementia will likely increase in the future along 
with corresponding increases in population growth and population aging. However, 
large inconsistencies in coding practices in vital registration systems over 
time and between countries complicate the estimation of global dementia 
mortality.
METHODS: We meta-analyzed the excess risk of death in those with dementia and 
multiplied these estimates by the proportion of dementia deaths occurring in 
those with severe, end-stage disease to calculate the total number of deaths 
that could be attributed to dementia.
RESULTS: We estimated that there were 1.62 million (95% uncertainty interval 
[UI]: 0.41-4.21) deaths globally due to dementia in 2019. More dementia deaths 
occurred in women (1.06 million [0.27-2.71]) than men (0.56 million 
[0.14-1.51]), largely but not entirely due to the higher life expectancy in 
women (age-standardized female-to-male ratio 1.19 [1.10-1.26]). Due to 
population aging, there was a large increase in all-age mortality rates from 
dementia between 1990 and 2019 (100.1% [89.1-117.5]). In 2019, deaths due to 
dementia ranked seventh globally in all ages and fourth among individuals 70 and 
older compared to deaths from other diseases estimated in the Global Burden of 
Disease (GBD) study.
DISCUSSION: Mortality due to dementia represents a substantial global burden, 
and is expected to continue to grow into the future as an older, aging 
population expands globally.

© 2021 The Authors. Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical 
Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of Alzheimer's 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/trc2.12200
PMCID: PMC8315276
PMID: 34337138


298. Eur Urol Open Sci. 2021 May 18;29:15-18. doi: 10.1016/j.euros.2021.04.007. 
eCollection 2021 Jul.

Decreasing Non-bladder-cancer Mortality After Radical Cystectomy.

Froehner M(1), Koch R(2), Heberling U(1), Borkowetz A(2), Hübler M(3), Novotny 
V(4), Wirth MP(2), Thomas C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Zeisigwaldkliniken Bethanien Chemnitz, Chemnitz, 
Germany.
(2)Department of Urology, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, Technische 
Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, 
Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(4)Department of Urology, Städtisches Klinikum Görlitz, Görlitz, Germany.

Life expectancy is increasing in many parts of the world. Using proportional 
hazard models for competing risks, we investigated whether this increase has 
changed outcomes after radical cystectomy in a sample of 1419 consecutive 
patients treated between 1993 and 2018. During the observation period, the mean 
age and the proportion of patients with American Society of Anesthesiologists 
physical status class 3 or 4 increased, whereas the proportion of patients with 
heart disease decreased. Competing mortality (causes other than bladder cancer) 
decreased in all subgroups (hazard ratios [HRs] per year ranged from 0.931 to 
0.963) and after controlling for increasing age (HRs ranged from 1.018 to 
1.081). In an optimal model resulting from an analysis including age (HR per 
year 1.048, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.027-1.070; p < 0.0001), comorbidity, 
tumor-related variables, body mass index, (neoadjuvant and adjuvant) 
chemotherapy and smoking status, the HR per increment for year of surgery was 
0.928 (95% CI 0.886-0.973; p = 0.0019). The effect of year of surgery was 
greater than the decrease in competing mortality that may be expected with 
increasing life expectancy (4 yr for females, 6 yr for males).
PATIENT SUMMARY: In a review of data for 1993-2018, we found that death from 
other causes after removal of the bladder (radical cystectomy) for bladder 
cancer decreased over time. This decreasing trend might increase the age limit 
at which bladder cancer patients can benefit from radical cystectomy in the 
future.

© 2021 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.euros.2021.04.007
PMCID: PMC8317886
PMID: 34337529


299. Comput Methods Programs Biomed Update. 2021;1:100001. doi: 
10.1016/j.cmpbup.2020.100001. Epub 2020 Dec 14.

Blockchain technologies to mitigate COVID-19 challenges: A scoping review.

Abd-Alrazaq AA(1)(2), Alajlani M(2), Alhuwail D(3)(4), Erbad A(1), Giannicchi 
A(5), Shah Z(1), Hamdi M(1), Househ M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Information and Computing Technology, College of Science and 
Engineering, Hamad Bin Khalifa University, Qatar Foundation, Doha, Qatar.
(2)Institute of Digital Healthcare, University of Warwick, United Kingdom.
(3)Information Science Department, College of Life Sciences, Kuwait University, 
Kuwait.
(4)Health Informatics Unit, Dasman Diabetes Institute, Kuwait.
(5)Behavioral Health Services and Policy Research Department, New York State 
Psychiatric Institute, United States.

Background: As public health strategists and policymakers explore different 
approaches to lessen the devastating effects of novel coronavirus disease 
(COVID-19), blockchain technology has emerged as a resource that can be utilized 
in numerous ways. Many blockchain technologies have been proposed or implemented 
during the COVID-19 pandemic; however, to the best of our knowledge, no 
comprehensive reviews have been conducted to uncover and summarise the main 
feature of these technologies. Objective: This study aims to explore proposed or 
implemented blockchain technologies used to mitigate the COVID-19 challenges as 
reported in the literature. Methods: We conducted a scoping review in line with 
guidelines of PRISMA Extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR). To identify 
relevant studies, we searched 11 bibliographic databases (e.g., EMBASE and 
MEDLINE) and conducted backward and forward reference list checking of the 
included studies and relevant reviews. The study selection and data extraction 
were conducted by 2 reviewers independently. Data extracted from the included 
studies was narratively summarised and described. Results: 19 of 225 retrieved 
studies met eligibility criteria in this review. The included studies reported 
10 used cases of blockchain to mitigate COVID-19 challenges; the most prominent 
use cases were contact tracing and immunity passports. While the blockchain 
technology was developed in 10 studies, its use was proposed in the remaining 9 
studies. The public blockchain technology was the most commonly utilized type in 
the included studies. All together, 8 different consensus mechanisms were used 
in the included studies. Out of 10 studies that identified the used platform, 9 
studies used Ethereum to run the blockchain. Solidity was the most prominent 
programming language used in developing blockchain technology in the included 
studies. The transaction cost was reported in only 4 of the included studies and 
varied between USD 10-10 and USD 5. The expected latency and expected 
scalability were not identified in the included studies. Conclusion: Blockchain 
technologies are expected to play an integral role in the fight against the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Many possible applications of blockchain were found in this 
review; however, most of them are not mature enough to reveal their expected 
impact in the fight against COVID-19. We encourage governments, health 
authorities, and policymakers to consider all blockchain applications suggested 
in the current review to combat COVID-19 challenges. There is a pressing need to 
empirically examine how effective blockchain technologies are in mitigating 
COVID-19 challenges. Further studies are required to assess the performance of 
blockchain technologies' fight against COVID-19 in terms of transaction cost, 
scalability, and/or latency when using different consensus algorithms, 
platforms, and access types.

© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpbup.2020.100001
PMCID: PMC7734436
PMID: 34337586


300. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2021 Aug;27(8):1077-1085. doi: 
10.18553/jmcp.2021.27.8.1077.

The cost-effectiveness of therapeutic drug monitoring for the prescription 
drug-based treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia.

Conti RM(1), Padula WV(2), Becker RV(3), Salamone S(4).

Author information:
(1)Boston University, Questrom School of Business, Department of Markets, Public 
Policy, and Law, Boston, MA.
(2)University of South Carolina, School of Pharmacy, Department of 
Pharmaceutical & Health Economics, Los Angeles, CA.
(3)Russell Becker Consulting, Chicago, IL.
(4)Saladax Biomedical, Bethlehem, PA.

BACKGROUND: A recent study demonstrating the use of Therapeutic Drug Monitoring 
(TDM) in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) resulted in a higher 
response rate with imatinib (IM) than demonstrated in second-generation tyrosine 
kinase inhibitor studies. The cost-effectiveness of TDM combined with IM (IM 
TDM) in first-line CML treatment has not yet been studied. OBJECTIVES: To 
determine the cost-effectiveness of IM TDM for the first-line treatment of CML 
compared to tyrosine kinase inhibitor only treatment. METHODS: A recently 
published cost-effectiveness model of tyrosine kinase inhibitor-treatment in CML 
was modified to include IM TDM as a first-line tyrosine kinase inhibitor-based 
CML treatment option. Efficacy inputs for major molecular response (MMR) rates 
were taken from previously published studies: IM TDM 65%, dasatinib 52%, 
nilotinib 53%. Annual tyrosine kinase inhibitor drug prices were derived from 
the Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) and the average and lowest wholesale 
acquisition costs (WAC) reported in the Red Book; the annual cost of TDM was 
$228. Other input costs modeled in the original CML CEA model were updated to 
2016 US dollars using the medical service component of the Consumer Price Index. 
A US payer perspective was used with a 5-year time horizon and a 3.0% discount 
rate. The model compared first-line IM TDM versus IM alone, nilotinib (NIL) or 
dasatinib (DAS) in terms of the following outcomes: costs, quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), and cost-effectiveness (total cost/QALY). Deterministic and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed using all key clinical and 
economic parameters. RESULTS: This study found that IM TDM dominates IM alone 
with $15,452 to $36,940 in savings and 0.25 higher QALYs. Using FSS, per patient 
total costs for IM and IM TDM were $270,905 and $233,965, respectively.; Using 
average WAC, these costs were $461,657 and $446,205, and using lowest WAC, these 
costs were $366,966 and $350,090. The results comparing first line using of IM 
TDM to NIL/DAS found that TDM IM had higher QALYs and lower costs (0.08 QALYs 
lower, and $117,006 to $172,420 savings per patient [varying by price basis]). 
Thus, in terms of cost-effectiveness, IM TDM dominates NIL/DAS with both lower 
costs and higher QALYs. CONCLUSIONS: IM TDM is a clinically and economically 
viable first-line treatment option for CML. DISCLOSURES: This study was funded 
by Saladax Biomedical. Salamone is an employee of Saladax Biomedical. This study 
was presented at the IATDMCT Congress, September 2018, Brisbane, Australia.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2021.27.8.1077
PMCID: PMC10390998
PMID: 34337991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: This study was funded by Saladax Biomedical. 
Salamone is an employee of Saladax Biomedical. This study was presented at the 
IATDMCT Congress, September 2018, Brisbane, Australia.301. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2021 Aug;27(8):1046-1055. doi: 
10.18553/jmcp.2021.27.8.1046.

Optimal treatment sequence for targeted immune modulators for the treatment of 
moderate to severe ulcerative colitis.

Bloudek LM(1), Pandey R(2), Fazioli K(2), Ollendorf DA(3), Carlson JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Comparative Health Outcomes, Policy & Economics (CHOICE) Institute, 
University of Washington School of Pharmacy, Seattle.
(2)Institute for Clinical and Economic Review, Boston, MA.
(3)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Tufts Medical Center, 
Boston, MA.

Erratum in
    J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2022 Jan;28(1):132.

BACKGROUND: Ulcerative colitis is a chronic immune-mediated inflammatory 
condition of the large intestine and rectum. Several targeted immune modulators 
(TIMs) have demonstrated effectiveness for the treatment of moderate to severe 
ulcerative colitis and are approved by the FDA. Patients may try multiple TIMs, 
and currently there are no biomarkers or prognostic factors to guide choice of 
treatment sequence. In 2020, the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review 
(ICER) conducted a review of TIMs for the treatment of ulcerative colitis as 
individual agents relative to conventional treatment but did not address the 
relative ranking of various treatment sequences to each other. OBJECTIVE: To 
extend the ICER framework to identify the optimal treatment sequence as informed 
by metrics such as maximizing incremental net health benefit (NHB), minimizing 
incremental total cost, or maximizing incremental quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs). METHODS: The model was developed as a Markov model with 8-week cycles 
over a lifetime time horizon from a US payer perspective, including only direct 
health care costs. Health states consisted of active moderate to severe 
ulcerative colitis, clinical response without achieving remission, clinical 
remission, and death. Efficacy of TIMs were informed by the ICER-conducted 
network meta-analysis. Up to 3 treatments were modeled in a sequence that 
consisted of 2 different TIMs followed by conventional treatment. Sequences were 
ranked according to each objective. NHB was calculated using a threshold of 
$150,000 per QALY gained. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis (PSA) was 
undertaken to estimate the probability of each sequence having the highest NHB 
rank under each objective. RESULTS: 21 possible sequences were evaluated in the 
base case. Two attempts at conventional treatment represented the lowest cost 
option and, while yielding the fewest QALYs, resulted in the highest NHB. None 
of the sequences had an incremental cost per QALY below $150,000 relative to 2 
attempts with conventional treatment, so the resulting NHB was negative for all 
sequences. The sequence with the highest NHB was infliximab-dyyb followed by 
tofacitinib (-0.116). This regimen also had the lowest incremental costs 
($37,266). For orally and subcutaneously administered TIMs, the sequence of 
golimumab-tofacitinib had the highest NHB (-0.344). Ustekinumab-vedolizumab was 
the top-ranked sequence as measured by QALY maximization (0.172 incremental 
QALYs) but also had the highest total incremental cost ($166,094). Results of 
the PSA were consistent with deterministic rankings for the top-ranking 
sequences but also showed that the top 2 or 3 regimens were often close 
together. CONCLUSIONS: Based on the results of this analysis, the optimal 
sequence of TIMs as measured by NHB and cost minimization was infliximab or 
biosimilars as first-line treatment, then moving to tofacitinib, adalimumab, or 
vedolizumab. Sequences that generated the most QALYs began with ustekinumab, 
followed by vedolizumab, tofacitinib, and adalimumab. DISCLOSURES: This study 
was based on an evidence synthesis and economic evaluation sponsored by the 
Institute for Clinical and Economic Review (ICER). Pandey and Fazioli are 
employees of ICER. Bloudek reports grants from ICER during the conduct of the 
study and personal fees from Astellas, Akcea, Dermira, GlaxoSmithKline, 
Sunovion, Seattle Genetics, and TerSera Therapeutics, outside the submitted 
work. Pandey reports grants from California Healthcare Foundation, Harvard 
Pilgrim Healthcare, Kaiser Foundation Health Plan Inc., and the Donoghue 
Foundation, during the conduct of the study, and other support from Aetna, 
America's Health Insurance Plans, Anthem, AbbVie, Alnylam, AstraZeneca, Biogen, 
Genentech/Roche, GlaxoSmithSline, Harvard Pilgrim, Health Care Service 
Corporation, Health Partners, Johnson & Johnson (Janssen), Kaiser Permanente, 
LEO Pharma, Mallinckrodt, Merck, Novartis, National Pharmaceutical Council, 
Premera, Prime Therapeutics, Regeneron, Sanofi, Spark Therapeutics, United 
Healthcare, HealthFirst, Pfizer, Boehringer-Ingelheim, uniQure, Evolve Pharmacy 
Solutions, and Humana, outside the submitted work. Fazioli reports grants from 
Arnold Ventures, California Healthcare Foundation, Harvard Pilgrim Healthcare, 
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan Inc., and The Donaghue Foundation, during the 
conduct of the study, and other support from Aetna, America's Health Insurance 
Plans, Anthem, AbbVie, Alnylam, AstraZeneca, Biogen, Blue Shield of CA, Cambia 
Health Services, CVS, Editas, Express Scripts, Genentech/Roche, GlaxoSmithKline, 
Harvard Pilgrim, Health Care Service Corporation, Health Partners, Johnson & 
Johnson (Janssen), Kaiser Permanente, LEO Pharma, Mallinckrodt, Merck, Novartis, 
National Pharmaceutical Council, Premera, Prime Therapeutics, Regeneron, Sanofi, 
Spark Therapeutics, United Healthcare, HealthFirst, Pfizer, 
Boehringer-lngelheim, uniQure, Evolve Phamacy Solutions, and Humana, outside the 
submitted work. Ollendorf reports grants from ICER, during the conduct of the 
study, along with other support from CEA Registry sponsors and personal fees 
from EMD Serono, Amgen, Analysis Group, Aspen Institute/University of Southern 
California, GalbraithWight, Cytokinetics, Sunovion, University of Colorado, 
Center for Global Development, and Neurocrine, outside the submitted work. 
Carlson reports grants from ICER, during the conduct of the study, and personal 
fees from Allergan, outside the submitted work. The inputs and model framework 
that were leveraged for this analysis were presented as part of the ICER 
assessment of TIMs for the treatment of moderate to severe ulcerative colitis.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2021.27.8.1046
PMCID: PMC10390993
PMID: 34337994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: This study was based on an evidence synthesis 
and economic evaluation sponsored by the Institute for Clinical and Economic 
Review (ICER). Pandey and Fazioli are employees of ICER. Bloudek reports grants 
from ICER during the conduct of the study and personal fees from Astellas, 
Akcea, Dermira, GlaxoSmithKline, Sunovion, Seattle Genetics, and TerSera 
Therapeutics, outside the submitted work. Pandey reports grants from California 
Healthcare Foundation, Harvard Pilgrim Healthcare, Kaiser Foundation Health Plan 
Inc., and the Donoghue Foundation, during the conduct of the study, and other 
support from Aetna, America’s Health Insurance Plans, Anthem, AbbVie, Alnylam, 
AstraZeneca, Biogen, Genentech/Roche, GlaxoSmithSline, Harvard Pilgrim, Health 
Care Service Corporation, Health Partners, Johnson & Johnson (Janssen), Kaiser 
Permanente, LEO Pharma, Mallinckrodt, Merck, Novartis, National Pharmaceutical 
Council, Premera, Prime Therapeutics, Regeneron, Sanofi, Spark Therapeutics, 
United Healthcare, HealthFirst, Pfizer, Boehringer-Ingelheim, uniQure, Evolve 
Pharmacy Solutions, and Humana, outside the submitted work. Fazioli reports 
grants from Arnold Ventures, California Healthcare Foundation, Harvard Pilgrim 
Healthcare, Kaiser Foundation Health Plan Inc., and The Donaghue Foundation, 
during the conduct of the study, and other support from Aetna, America’s Health 
Insurance Plans, Anthem, AbbVie, Alnylam, AstraZeneca, Biogen, Blue Shield of 
CA, Cambia Health Services, CVS, Editas, Express Scripts, Genentech/Roche, 
GlaxoSmithKline, Harvard Pilgrim, Health Care Service Corporation, Health 
Partners, Johnson & Johnson (Janssen), Kaiser Permanente, LEO Pharma, 
Mallinckrodt, Merck, Novartis, National Pharmaceutical Council, Premera, Prime 
Therapeutics, Regeneron, Sanofi, Spark Therapeutics, United Healthcare, 
HealthFirst, Pfizer, Boehringer-lngelheim, uniQure, Evolve Phamacy Solutions, 
and Humana, outside the submitted work. Ollendorf reports grants from ICER, 
during the conduct of the study, along with other support from CEA Registry 
sponsors and personal fees from EMD Serono, Amgen, Analysis Group, Aspen 
Institute/University of Southern California, GalbraithWight, Cytokinetics, 
Sunovion, University of Colorado, Center for Global Development, and Neurocrine, 
outside the submitted work. Carlson reports grants from ICER, during the conduct 
of the study, and personal fees from Allergan, outside the submitted work. The 
inputs and model framework that were leveraged for this analysis were presented 
as part of the ICER assessment of TIMs for the treatment of moderate to severe 
ulcerative colitis.


302. Biochem J. 2021 Aug 27;478(16):3063-3078. doi: 10.1042/BCJ20210341.

Conservation of endo-glucanase 16 (EG16) activity across highly divergent plant 
lineages.

Behar H(1)(2), Tamura K(1)(2), Wagner ER(3), Cosgrove DJ(3), Brumer 
H(1)(2)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Michael Smith Laboratories, University of British Columbia, 2185 East Mall, 
Vancouver, BC Canada V6T 1Z1.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of British 
Columbia, 2350 Health Sciences Mall, Life Sciences Centre, Vancouver, BC, Canada 
V6T 1Z3.
(3)Department of Biology, Pennsylvania State University, 208 Mueller Laboratory, 
University Park, PA 16802, U.S.A.
(4)Department of Botany, University of British Columbia, 3200-6270 University 
Blvd., Vancouver, BC, Canada V6H 1Z4.
(5)Department of Chemistry, University of British Columbia, 2036 Main Mall, 
Vancouver, BC, Canada V6T 1Z1.

Plant cell walls are highly dynamic structures that are composed predominately 
of polysaccharides. As such, endogenous carbohydrate active enzymes (CAZymes) 
are central to the synthesis and subsequent modification of plant cells during 
morphogenesis. The endo-glucanase 16 (EG16) members constitute a distinct group 
of plant CAZymes, angiosperm orthologs of which were recently shown to have dual 
β-glucan/xyloglucan hydrolase activity. Molecular phylogeny indicates that EG16 
members comprise a sister clade with a deep evolutionary relationship to the 
widely studied apoplastic xyloglucan endo-transglycosylases/hydrolases (XTH). A 
cross-genome survey indicated that EG16 members occur as a single ortholog 
across species and are widespread in early diverging plants, including the 
non-vascular bryophytes, for which functional data were previously lacking. 
Remarkably, enzymological characterization of an EG16 ortholog from the model 
moss Physcomitrella patens (PpEG16) revealed that EG16 activity and 
sequence/structure are highly conserved across 500 million years of plant 
evolution, vis-à-vis orthologs from grapevine and poplar. Ex vivo biomechanical 
assays demonstrated that the application of EG16 gene products caused abrupt 
breakage of etiolated hypocotyls rather than slow extension, thereby indicating 
a mode-of-action distinct from endogenous expansins and microbial 
endo-glucanases. The biochemical data presented here will inform future genomic, 
genetic, and physiological studies of EG16 enzymes.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published by Portland Press Limited on behalf of the 
Biochemical Society.

DOI: 10.1042/BCJ20210341
PMID: 34338284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2022 Feb;142(2):343-353. doi: 
10.1007/s00402-021-04101-w. Epub 2021 Aug 2.

Lessons learned with the Cobra prosthesis in elderly patients with complex 
distal radius fractures-a retrospective follow-up study.

Benedikt S(1), Kaiser P(1), Schmidle G(1), Kastenberger T(1), Stock K(1), Arora 
R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, University Hospital Innsbruck, 
Anichstraße 35, 6020, Innsbruck, Austria.
(2)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, University Hospital Innsbruck, 
Anichstraße 35, 6020, Innsbruck, Austria. rohit.arora@i-med.ac.at.

INTRODUCTION: Recently, the Cobra prostheses were introduced in the treatment of 
distal radius fractures (DRF) of elderly patients. Fracture prostheses provide 
an alternative treatment option for complex fractures where conservative therapy 
seems not acceptable and osteosynthesis seems not possible. Data reporting the 
feasibility of the Cobra prosthesis are sparse. Therefore, this retrospective 
follow-up study investigated the clinical and radiological mid-term outcome of 
the Cobra implant in complex DRFs of elderly patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirteen patients (mean age 73.5 years, range 
65-87 years) were retrospectively evaluated with at least a 1-year follow-up 
after surgery. Objective and subjective clinical parameters as well as the 
radiological outcome and complications were analyzed.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up period was 31.2 months. Seven cases required a 
cemented prosthesis. The mean relative range-of-motion compared to the healthy 
side was 72.3% and 51.8% for extension and flexion, respectively, and 87.9% and 
85.7% for pronation and supination, respectively. The mean grip strength was 
78.3% compared to the non-operated side. Eight patients were very satisfied, 
five patients were partly satisfied with the result. The DASH, PRWE, MHQ and 
Lyon-Scores averaged 39.1, 36.2, 64.9 and 63.3 points, respectively. The mean 
VAS-Score for pain was 1.1 at rest and 3.2 during activities. Perioperative 
complications included one dissection of the extensor pollicis longus tendon, 
one heterotopic ossification, one radiocarpal dislocation and two cases of an 
ulnar impaction syndrome due to implant subsidence.
CONCLUSION: The prosthetic treatment of complex DRFs in elderly patients with 
the Cobra implant led to clinically and radiologically satisfactory mid-term 
results. The Cobra prosthesis still does not represent a gold standard but can 
be regarded as a feasible salvage option for complex DRFs when osteosyntheses 
may not be possible and non-operative treatment will lead to further functional 
restrictions and wrist pain during performing activities of daily life in high 
functional demand patients.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00402-021-04101-w
PMCID: PMC8783885
PMID: 34338885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no relevant financial or 
non-financial interests to disclose.


304. J Gen Intern Med. 2021 Oct;36(10):3136-3147. doi:
10.1007/s11606-021-06973-5.  Epub 2021 Aug 2.

Patient Preferences for Discussing Life Expectancy: a Systematic Review.

Bjørk E(1), Thompson W(2)(3)(4), Ryg J(4)(5)(6)(7), Gaardboe O(8), Jørgensen 
TL(7)(9)(10), Lundby C(11)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Pharmacology, Pharmacy and Environmental Medicine, Department of 
Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Odense C, Denmark. 
embjorkol@gmail.com.
(2)Research Unit of General Practice, Department of Public Health, University of 
Southern Denmark, Odense C, Denmark.
(3)Hospital Pharmacy Funen, Odense University Hospital, Odense C, Denmark.
(4)Odense Deprescribing Initiative (ODIN), Odense C, Denmark.
(5)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Odense University Hospital, Odense C, 
Denmark.
(6)Geriatric Research Unit, Department of Clinical Research, University of 
Southern Denmark, Odense C, Denmark.
(7)Academy of Geriatric Cancer Research (AgeCare), Odense University Hospital, 
Odense C, Denmark.
(8)Danish Society for Patient Safety, Frederiksberg, Denmark.
(9)Department of Oncology, Odense University Hospital, Odense C, Denmark.
(10)Institute of Clinical Research, University of Southern Denmark, Odense C, 
Denmark.
(11)Clinical Pharmacology, Pharmacy and Environmental Medicine, Department of 
Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Odense C, Denmark.

Comment in
    Evid Based Nurs. 2022 Jul;25(3):82.

BACKGROUND: Discussing life expectancy helps inform decisions related to 
preventive medication, screening, and personal care planning. Our aim was to 
systematically review the literature on patient preferences for discussing life 
expectancy and to identify predictors for these preferences.
METHODS: We searched PubMed, Cochrane Library, Embase, MEDLINE, PsycInfo, and 
gray literature from inception until 17 February 2021. Two authors screened 
titles/abstracts and full texts, and extracted data and one author assessed 
quality. The outcome of interest was the proportion of patients willing to 
discuss life expectancy. We reported descriptive statistics, performed a 
narrative synthesis, and explored sub-groups of patients according to patient 
characteristics.
RESULTS: A total of 41 studies with an accumulated population of 27,570 
participants were included, comprising quantitative survey/questionnaire studies 
(n=27) and qualitative interview studies (n=14). Willingness to discuss life 
expectancy ranged from 19 to 100% (median 61%, interquartile range (IQR) 50-73) 
across studies, with the majority (77%) reporting more than half of subjects 
willing to discuss. There was considerable heterogeneity in willingness to 
discuss life expectancy, even between studies from patients with similar ages, 
diseases, and cultural profiles. The highest variability in willingness to 
discuss was found among patients with cancer (range 19-100%, median 61%, IQR 
51-81) and patients aged 50-64 years (range 19-97%, median 61%, IQR 45-87). This 
made it impossible to determine predictors for willingness to discuss life 
expectancy.
DISCUSSION: Most patients are willing to discuss life expectancy; however, a 
substantial proportion is not. Heterogeneity and variability in preferences make 
it challenging to identify clear predictors of willingness to discuss. 
Variability in preferences may to some extent be influenced by age, disease, and 
cultural differences. These findings highlight the individual and complex nature 
in which patients approach this topic and stress the importance of clinicians 
considering eliciting patient's individual preferences when initiating 
discussions about life expectancy.

© 2021. Society of General Internal Medicine.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-021-06973-5
PMCID: PMC8481511
PMID: 34338978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they do not have a 
conflict of interest.


305. J Insur Med. 2022 Apr 1;49(2):97-104. doi: 10.17849/insm-49-02-01.

Projection of Impaired Life Expectancy for Individuals in the United Kingdom 
Using Estimated Excess Death Rates.

Jones DB(1), Gray NR, Reid M(2), Scott WF(3).

Author information:
(1)Bowen-Jones: Honorary Professor, Department of Health Sciences University of 
Chester CH1 4BJ.
(2)Reid: Undergraduate student Applied Mathematics at the University of 
Stirling; Computer Science and Mathematics Faculty of Natural Sciences 
University of Stirling FK9 4LA.
(3)Scott: Part-time Lecturer and Tutor Institute of Human Sciences University of 
Oxford OX2 6QS.

We have recently constructed tables of the estimated life expectancies of 
impaired lives on the basis of mortality ratios and the cohort life expectancy 
tables given in the 8th edition of the Ogden Tables, which are derived from the 
ONS 2018-based population projections for the United Kingdom.1,2 The life 
expectancy of impaired lives may also be estimated using excess death rates. In 
this paper, we give tables of life expectancies for impaired lives using a range 
of excess death rates for males and females from age 0 to age 100. As both 
mortality ratios and excess death rates are widely used in medical and legal 
settings, it is hoped that these additional tables of life expectancies will be 
of practical value.

Copyright © 2022 Journal of Insurance Medicine.

DOI: 10.17849/insm-49-02-01
PMID: 34339512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. J Insur Med. 2022 Apr 1;49(2):105-113. doi: 10.17849/insm-49-02-02.

Projection of Impaired Life Expectancy in Individuals in the United Kingdom 
Using Mortality Ratios.

Jones DB(1), Gray NR, Reid M(2), Scott WF(3).

Author information:
(1)Bowen-Jones: Honorary Professor, Department of Health Sciences University of 
Chester CH1 4BJ.
(2)Reid: Undergraduate student Applied Mathematics at the University of 
Stirling; Computer Science and Mathematics Faculty of Natural Sciences 
University of Stirling FK9 4LA.
(3)Scott: Part-time Lecturer and Tutor Institute of Human Sciences University of 
Oxford OX2 6QS.

Projections of life expectancy are widely used in medicine, actuarial practice, 
and in the medicolegal and insurance fields. For individuals considered to have 
average future survival, nationally-derived life expectancy tables are 
available, referred to as the Ogden Tables. In the United Kingdom, updated 
tables (the 8th edition) were published in July 2020. We have calculated 
impaired projected life expectancies for the United Kingdom based on age and 
gender, derived from the 8th edition of the Ogden Tables together with various 
assumed lifelong mortality ratios.

Copyright © 2022 Journal of Insurance Medicine.

DOI: 10.17849/insm-49-02-02
PMID: 34339516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Food Chem. 2022 Jan 1;366:130691. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2021.130691. Epub
2021  Jul 24.

Characterization of the aroma compounds of Millet Huangjiu at different 
fermentation stages.

Ye Y(1), Wang L(2), Zhan P(3), Tian H(4), Liu J(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Food Engineering and Nutritional Science, Shaanxi Normal 
University, Xi'an, China.
(2)College of Food Engineering and Nutritional Science, Shaanxi Normal 
University, Xi'an, China; College of Life Sciences and Food Engineering, Shaanxi 
Xueqian Normal University, Xi'an, China.
(3)College of Food Engineering and Nutritional Science, Shaanxi Normal 
University, Xi'an, China. Electronic address: zhanping0993@126.com.
(4)College of Food Engineering and Nutritional Science, Shaanxi Normal 
University, Xi'an, China; Shaanxi Provincial Research Center of Functional Food 
Engineering Technology, Xi'an, China. Electronic address: thl0993@sina.com.
(5)Shaanxi Provincial Research Center of Functional Food Engineering Technology, 
Xi'an, China.

Millet Huangjiu (MHJ), a type of northern Huangjiu with a long history, has 
attracted considerable attention in China and East Asia for its unique flavor. 
To elucidate the changing course of aroma components during the fermentation 
process of MHJ, 15 MHJ samples prepared at different fermentation stages were 
assessed by gas chromatography-olfactometry (GC-O) and odor activity value (OAV) 
coupled with multivariate data analysis. A total of 66 volatile compounds were 
identified, among which 21 odorant active substances were regarded as the main 
aroma components (OAVs ≥ 1). The numbers and contents of esters in MHJs 
accumulated with the extension of fermentation time. Ethanol, ethyl acetate, 
phenylethyl alcohol and other 7 aromatic substances are the key flavoring agents 
in the final fermented MHJ. Orthogonal partial least squares-discriminant 
analysis (OPLS-DA) showed that 14 volatile compounds (formic acid, ethanol, 
etc.) are supposed to be the key substances that cause significant differences 
in MHJ flavor at different fermentation stages.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2021.130691
PMID: 34339922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Gerontology. 2021;67(5):503-516. doi: 10.1159/000517659. Epub 2021 Aug 2.

Elementary Laboratory Assays as Biomarkers of Ageing: Support for Treatment of 
COVID-19?

Lung T(1), Di Cesare P(2), Risch L(1), Nydegger U(1), Risch M(3).

Author information:
(1)Labormedizinisches Zentrum Dr. Risch, Vaduz, Liechtenstein.
(2)InnoBoost SA, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(3)Kantonsspital Graubünden, Chur, Switzerland.

Youth, working age and the elderly: On a timeline, chronological age (CA) and 
biological age (BA) may dissociate; nosological entities manifest themselves at 
different BAs. In determining which disease corresponds to a given age decade, 
statistical registries of causes of death are unreliable and this does not 
change with SARS CoV-2 infection. Beyond adolescence, ageing metrics involve 
estimations of changes in fitness, including prediction models to estimate the 
number of remaining years left to live. A substantial disparity in biomarker 
levels and health status of ageing can be observed: the difference in CA and BA 
in the large cohorts under consideration is glaring. Here, we focus more closely 
on ageing and senescence metrics in order to make information available for risk 
analysis non the least with COVID-19, including the most recent risk factors of 
ABO blood type and 3p21.31 chromosome cluster impacting on C5a and SC5b-9 plasma 
levels. From the multitude of routine medical laboratory assays, a potentially 
meaningful set of assays aimed to best reflect the stage of individual 
senescence; hence risk factors the observational prospective SENIORLABOR study 
of 1,467 healthy elderly performed since 2009 and similar approaches since 1958 
can be instantiated as a network to combine a set of elementary laboratory 
assays quantifying senescence.

© 2021 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000517659
PMCID: PMC8450824
PMID: 34340235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The co-authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare. The SENIORLAB study is a registered medical laboratory survey of 
healthy elderly (International Standard Registered Clinical/Social Study No. 
53778569). The study benefits from in-house funding.


309. Surgery. 2022 Jan;171(1):55-62. doi: 10.1016/j.surg.2021.03.075. Epub 2021
Jul  31.

A cost-utility analysis of 18F-fluorocholine-positron emission tomography 
imaging for localizing primary hyperparathyroidism in the United States.

Yap A(1), Hope TA(2), Graves CE(3), Kluijfhout W(4), Shen WT(5), Gosnell JE(5), 
Sosa JA(5), Roman SA(5), Duh QY(5), Suh I(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of California San Francisco, CA. Electronic 
address: ava.yap@ucsf.edu.
(2)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California San 
Francisco, CA.
(3)Department of Surgery, University of California Davis, CA.
(4)Department of Surgery, University of Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Surgery, University of California San Francisco, CA.
(6)Department of Surgery, New York University Langone Health, NY.

Comment in
    Surgery. 2022 Jan;171(1):62.

BACKGROUND: Primary hyperparathyroidism historically necessitated bilateral neck 
exploration to remove abnormal parathyroid tissue. Improved localization allows 
for focused parathyroidectomy with lower complication risks. Recently, positron 
emission tomography using radiolabeled 18F-fluorocholine demonstrated high 
accuracy in detecting these lesions, but its cost-effectiveness has not been 
studied in the United States.
METHODS: A decision tree modeled patients who underwent parathyroidectomy for 
primary hyperparathyroidism using single preoperative localization modalities: 
(1) positron emission tomography using radiolabeled 18F-fluorocholine, (2) 
4-dimensional computed tomography, (3) ultrasound, and (4) sestamibi single 
photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). All patients underwent either 
focused parathyroidectomy versus bilateral neck exploration, with associated 
