(2)Department of Ophthalmology, University Medical Center Greifswald, 
Greifswald, Germany.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Gemelli Foundation IRCSS, Catholic University of 
the Sacred Heart, Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Optometry and Visual Science, City, University of London, 
London, UK.
(5)Ross Eye Institute, Jacobs School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, 
University at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY, USA.
(6)China Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research Company, Shanghai, China.
(7)Ophthalmology Development Unit, Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East 
Hanover, NJ, USA.
(8)Novartis Pharma, Basel, Switzerland.
(9)Royal Hospital for Sick Children, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.

BACKGROUND: Intravitreal injection of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) 
inhibitors is increasingly used to treat retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) in the 
absence of evidence about long-term efficacy or safety. In this prespecified 
interim analysis of the RAINBOW extension study, we aimed to prospectively 
assess outcomes at age 2 years.
METHODS: RAINBOW was an open-label, randomised trial that compared intravitreal 
ranibizumab (at 0·1 mg and 0·2 mg doses) with laser therapy for the treatment of 
ROP in very low birthweight infants (<1500 g). Families of the 201 infants that 
completed the RAINBOW core study were approached for consent to enter the 
extension study, which evaluates treatment outcomes prospectively through to 5 
years of age. At age 20-28 months corrected for prematurity, participants had 
ophthalmic, development, and health assessments. The primary outcome was the 
absence of structural ocular abnormalities; secondary outcomes included 
vision-related quality of life (reported by parents using the Children's Visual 
Function Questionnaire), development (assessed with the Mullen Scales of Early 
Learning), motor function, and health status. Investigator-determined ocular and 
non-ocular serious and other adverse events were recorded. This study is 
registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02640664.
FINDINGS: Between June 16, 2016, and Jan 22, 2018, 180 infants were enrolled in 
the RAINBOW extension study, and 153 (85%) were evaluated at 20-28 months of 
age. No child developed new ocular structural abnormalities. Structural 
abnormalities were present in one (2%) of 56 infants in the ranibizumab 0·2 mg 
group, one (2%) of 51 infants in the 0·1 mg group, and four (9%) of 44 infants 
in the laser therapy group. The odds ratio of no structural abnormality was 5·68 
(95% CI 0·60-54·0; p=0·10) for ranibizumab 0·2 mg versus laser therapy, 4·82 
(0·52-45·0; p=0·14) for ranibizumab 0·1 mg versus laser therapy, and 1·21 
(0·07-20; p=0·90) for ranibizumab 0·2 mg vs 0·1 mg. High myopia (-5 dioptres or 
worse) was less frequent after 0·2 mg ranibizumab (five [5%] of 110 eyes) than 
with laser therapy (16 [20%] of 82; odds ratio 0·19, 95% CI 0·05-0·69; p=0·012). 
Composite vision-related quality of life scores seemed higher among the 
ranibizumab 0·2 mg group (mean 84, 95% CI 80-88) compared with laser therapy 
(77, 72-83; p=0·063). Mullen Scales T-scores for visual reception, receptive and 
expressive language were distributed similarly between the three trial groups 
and there were similar proportions of infants with motor and hearing problems 
among treatment groups. The proportion of infants with respiratory symptoms and 
Z scores of standing height, weight, and head circumference were similarly 
distributed in the treatment groups. There were no adverse events considered by 
the investigator to be related to the study intervention.
INTERPRETATION: 2-year outcomes following ranibizumab 0·2 mg for the treatment 
of ROP confirm the ocular outcomes of the original RAINBOW trial and show 
reduced high myopia, with possibly better vision-related quality of life. This 
treatment did not appear to affect non-ocular infant development.
FUNDING: Novartis Pharma AG.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2352-4642(21)00195-4
PMID: 34391532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests AS, DL, AF, JDR and NM 
received personal fees and travel reimbursement and BF travel reimbursement from 
Novartis during the design and execution of the trial. No fees were paid during 
the analysis and write up of the study. NM declares personal fees from Novartis, 
Takeda, and RSM Consulting. AS declares personal fees from Novartis, Bayer, and 
Allergan. AF declares personal fees from Bayer, outside the submitted work. QZ 
is an employee of China Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research (Shanghai, 
China). AW is an employee of and owns stock from Novartis, (East Hanover, NJ, 
USA). DPS is an employee of Novartis (Basel, Switzerland).


477. J Ethnopharmacol. 2021 Dec 5;281:114520. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114520.
Epub  2021 Aug 12.

The additive memory and healthspan enhancement effects by the combined treatment 
of mature silkworm powders and Korean angelica extracts.

Nguyen P(1), Kim KY(2), Kim AY(3), Kang S(4), Osabutey AF(5), Jin H(6), Guo 
Y(7), Park H(8), Suh JW(9), Koh YH(10).

Author information:
(1)Ilsong Institute of Life Sciences, Hallym University, Anyang, Gyeonggi-do, 
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: phuongnguyenvspt@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Agricultural Biology, National Institute of Agricultural 
Sciences, Rural Development Administration, Wanju, Jeollabuk-do, Republic of 
Korea. Electronic address: applekky@korea.kr.
(3)Ilsong Institute of Life Sciences, Hallym University, Anyang, Gyeonggi-do, 
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: kilenay@hallym.ac.kr.
(4)Department of Agricultural Biology, National Institute of Agricultural 
Sciences, Rural Development Administration, Wanju, Jeollabuk-do, Republic of 
Korea. Electronic address: wkdudghl@korea.kr.
(5)Ilsong Institute of Life Sciences, Hallym University, Anyang, Gyeonggi-do, 
Republic of Korea; Department of Biomedical Gerontology, Hallym University 
Graduate School, Chuncheon, Gangwon-do, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
ofathiaangelina@gmail.com.
(6)Center for Nutraceutical and Pharmaceutical Materials, Myongji University, 
Yongin, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea. Electronic address: kimhwi83@gmail.com.
(7)Center for Nutraceutical and Pharmaceutical Materials, Myongji University, 
Yongin, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea. Electronic address: gyr840802@hotmail.com.
(8)HealthPark. 2502ho, Gangnamdaero 305, Seoul, South Korea. Electronic address: 
hwpark75@gmail.com.
(9)Center for Nutraceutical and Pharmaceutical Materials, Myongji University, 
Yongin, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea. Electronic address: jwsuh@mju.ac.kr.
(10)Ilsong Institute of Life Sciences, Hallym University, Anyang, Gyeonggi-do, 
Republic of Korea; Department of Biomedical Gerontology, Hallym University 
Graduate School, Chuncheon, Gangwon-do, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
kohyh@hallym.ac.kr.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Silkworm (Bombyx mori) and Korean angelica 
(KoAg; Angelica gigas Nakai) have been widely used as traditional oriental 
medicines in Korea, China, and Japan to treat various diseases such as anemia, 
cold, diabetes, palsy, stroke, etc. Steamed and freeze-dried mature silkworm 
powder, also known as HongJam (HJ), and extracts of KoAg root (KoAgE) are 
currently sold in Korea as functional foods to improve memory, cognition, and 
liver functions. However, the molecular and pharmacological basis for the 
improvement of brain functions of HJ and KoAgE has not yet been elucidated.
AIM OF STUDY: This study aimed to elucidate the molecular basis underlying the 
memory-enhancing effects of HJ and KoAgE and determine whether administration of 
HJ and KoAgE complexes (HJ+KoAgC) has additive memory and healthspan-enhancing 
effects.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The MCI mouse models generated by intraperitoneal 
injection of Scopolamine (Sco-IP) were orally administered with HJ and KoAgE 
alone or as complexes. Their memory-enhancing effects were examined on spatial, 
fear-aggravated, and social memories and compared with control or Donepezil (Dp) 
treatment. The activities of mitochondria complex (MitoCom) I-IV and 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and the amounts of ATP in the mouse brains were 
examined. The Drosophila model was used to investigate lifespan- and 
healthspan-promoting effects of HJ+KoAgC.
RESULTS: Administration of HJ+KoAgC produced more memory-enhancing effects than 
administration of HJ or KoAgE alone or Dp. The increase in MitoCom I-IV 
activities and ATP amounts and the decrease in AChE activities in the mouse 
brains were the molecular basis for the memory enhancement. The greatest 
improvement in memory and mitochondrial function was observed when the mice were 
administered the 1:0.8 ratio of HJ+KoAgC. Administration of HJ+KoAgC to 
Drosophila prolonged the lifespan and the healthspan and increased the amounts 
of ATP.
CONCLUSION: HJ+KoAgC had superior effects on memory improvement and healthspan 
extension by increasing mitochondrial activities and ATP amounts in treated 
animal models.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114520
PMID: 34391862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. J Gynecol Obstet Hum Reprod. 2021 Dec;50(10):102206. doi: 
10.1016/j.jogoh.2021.102206. Epub 2021 Aug 12.

Prophylactic procedures associated with gynecological surgery for the management 
of superficial endometriosis and adhesions. Clinical practice guidelines from 
the French College of Gynecologists and Obstetricians (CNGOF)(✰).

Ouazana M(1), Kerbage Y(2), Chauvet P(3), Collinet P(2), Bouet PE(4), Touboul 
C(5), Legendre G(6), Golfier F(7), Ploteau S(8), Santulli P(9).

Author information:
(1)Université de Paris, Faculté de Santé, Faculté de Médecine Paris Centre, 
Paris, France; Service de Gynécologie-Obstétrique II et de Médecine de la 
Reproduction, AP-HP, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire (CHU) Cochin, 75014, 
Paris, France.
(2)CHU Lille, Service de chirurgie gynécologique F-59000 Lille, France; 
University Lille, CHU Lille, F-59000 Lille, France.
(3)Department of Gynecological Surgery, Clermont-Ferrand University Hospital 
Estaing, Clermont-Ferrand, France; EnCoV, IP, UMR 6602 CNRS, Université Clermont 
Auvergne, Clermont-Ferrand, France.
(4)Department of Reproductive Medicine, Angers University Hospital, Angers 
49000, France.
(5)APHP, GHU East, Tenon Hospital, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, 4 
rue de la Chine, F-75020, Paris, France.
(6)CHU Angers, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, F-49000, Angers, 
France.
(7)CHU Lyon, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, F-69000, Lyon, France.
(8)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Nantes University Hospital, Nantes, 
France.
(9)Université de Paris, Faculté de Santé, Faculté de Médecine Paris Centre, 
Paris, France; Service de Gynécologie-Obstétrique II et de Médecine de la 
Reproduction, AP-HP, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire (CHU) Cochin, 75014, 
Paris, France; Université de Paris, Department "Infection, Immunity, 
Inflammation", INSERM U1016, Institut Cochin, Paris, France. Electronic address: 
pietro.santulli@aphp.fr.

OBJECTIVE: To provide guidelines from the French College of Obstetricians and 
Gynecologists (CNGOF), based on the best currently available evidence, for the 
prophylactic procedures associated with gynecological surgery for benign disease 
such as superficial endometriosis lesions and adhesions.
METHODS: The CNGOF has decided to adopt the AGREE II and GRADE systems for 
grading scientific evidence. Each recommendation for practice was allocated a 
grade that reflects the quality of evidence (QE) (clinical practice guidelines).
RESULTS: Endometriosis and pelvic pain Superficial endometriosis can be entirely 
asymptomatic. Surgical treatment of asymptomatic superficial peritoneal 
endometriosis is not recommended in women of childbearing age for the prevention 
of pelvic pain, especially in case of proximity to noble organs (e.g., the 
ureters, rectum and sigmoid, and ovaries in nulligravida) as there is no 
evidence that the disease will progress to become symptomatic (low level of 
evidence). In case of accidental discovery of superficial endometriosis in women 
of childbearing age with pelvic pain, it is recommended that the lesions are 
excised, if surgically accessible. Removal of superficial endometriosis lesions 
in patients with painful symptoms improves quality of life and pain (low level 
of evidence). Endometriosis and infertility It appears that women with isolated 
superficial endometriosis diagnosed by laparoscopy with histological 
confirmation have a significantly higher incidence of primary infertility than 
patients without endometriosis. However, there is no data regarding the impact 
of treatment of these lesions on the fertility in these women or on the natural 
course of their disease (low level of evidence). It is recommended that excision 
is performed rather than monopolar coagulation of superficial endometriosis 
lesions in infertile women, as this results in a higher spontaneous pregnancy 
rate (low level of evidence). Adhesions and pelvic pain There is limited data in 
the literature regarding the benefit of performing systematic adhesiolysis 
during laparoscopy to prevent pelvic pain when incidental pelvic adhesions are 
discovered. For patients with pelvic pain, it is probably better not to perform 
adhesiolysis to prevent pelvic pain, although this can be decided on a 
case-by-case basis depending on the extent of the adhesions, the topography, and 
the type of surgery considered (low level of evidence). For asymptomatic 
patients, it is recommended not to perform adhesiolysis to prevent pelvic pain 
due to the lack of clear efficacy both short- or long-term and due to the 
increased risk of surgical injuries (low level of evidence). Adhesions and 
infertility There is limited data in the literature regarding the potential 
benefit of performing systematic adhesiolysis when there is an incidental 
discovery of pelvic adhesions during laparoscopy to prevent infertility. For 
infertile women, in the event of fortuitous discovery of adhesions at 
laparoscopy, it is probably better not to perform complex adhesiolysis. Only 
adhesiolysis of tubo-ovarian adhesions that are minimal or slight in terms of 
their extension and/or their nature may be useful to improve the chances of 
spontaneous pregnancy. However, it remains to be decided on a case-by-case basis 
depending on other potential causes of infertility (low level of evidence). For 
women without known infertility issues, it is probably better not to perform 
systematic adhesiolysis in order to improve their pregnancy chances, considering 
the balance between the unknown benefit and the risks of complications inherent 
to surgery (low level of evidence).
CONCLUSION: Further investigations are needed in order to increase the quality 
of management regarding associated interventions such as the treatment of 
superficial endometriosis or adhesions performed during a gynecologic surgical 
procedure and, thereby, bolster these recommendations.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jogoh.2021.102206
PMID: 34391952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Orv Hetil. 2021 Aug 15;162(33):1318-1327. doi: 10.1556/650.2021.32200.

[Role of endocrinological factors and metabolic processes in regulating 
life-span].

[Article in Hungarian]

Halmos T(1), Suba I(2).

Author information:
(1)1 MAZSIHISZ Szeretetkórház, Metabolikus Ambulancia, Budapest.
(2)2 Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Kórház és Rendelőintézet, Tüdőgondozó Intézet, Budapest.

Összefoglaló. Az emberek a lehető leghosszabb ideig akarnak élni, jó 
egészségben. Ha kiküszöbölnénk a kedvezőtlen külső körülményeket, a várható 
élettartam meghaladhatná a 100 évet. A 20. és 21. században a jóléti 
társadalmakban a várható élettartam jelentősen megnőtt, így Magyarországon is. 
Az áttekintett irodalom alapján megvizsgáltuk, hogy a genetika és az öröklődés 
mellett milyen endokrinológiai és metabolikus tényezők játszanak szerepet az 
élet meghosszabbításában. Megvizsgáltunk minden endogén tényezőt, amely 
pozitívan vagy negatívan befolyásolhatja az életkorral összefüggő betegségeket 
(Alzheimer-kór, szív- és érrendszeri betegségek, rák) és az élettartamot. 
Kiemeltük a hyperinsulinaemia, az inzulinrezisztencia, a metabolikus szindróma 
öregedést gyorsító hatását, az inzulinszerű növekedési hormon-1 ellentmondásos 
szerepét, valamint az élet meghosszabbításában részt vevő, újabban felfedezett 
peptideket, mint a klotho és a humanin. Ismertettük a mitochondriumok szerepét 
az élettartam meghatározásában, bemutattuk a mitohormesis folyamatát és annak 
stresszvédő funkcióját. Bemutattuk a rapamicin célszervét, az mTOR-t, amelynek 
gátlása meghosszabbítja az élettartamot, valamint a szirtuinokat. Kitértünk az 
autophagia folyamatára, és ismertettük a szenolitikumok szerepét az öregedésben. 
Az időskori autoimmunitás csökkenése hozzájárul az élettartam rövidüléséhez, 
utaltunk a thymus koordináló szerepére. Kiemeltük a bélmikrobiom fontos szerepét 
az élettartam szabályozásában. Hivatkoztunk a "centenáriusok" megfigyeléséből 
nyert humánadatokra. Megvizsgáltuk, milyen beavatkozási lehetőségek állnak 
rendelkezésre az egészségben tölthető élettartam meghosszabbításához. Az 
életmódbeli lehetőségek közül kiemeltük a kalóriabevitel-csökkentés és a 
testmozgás jótékony szerepét. Megvizsgáltuk egyes gyógyszerek feltételezett 
hatásait. Ezek közé tartozik a metformin, az akarbóz, a rezveratrol. E 
gyógyszerek mindegyikének hatása hasonló a kalóriamegszorításéhoz. Nincs olyan 
"csodaszer", amely igazoltan meghosszabbítja az élettartamot emberben. Egyes 
géneknek és génmutációknak jótékony hatásuk van, de ezt környezeti tényezők, 
betegségek, balesetek és más külső ártalmak módosíthatják. Kiemeljük az elhízás, 
az alacsony fokozatú gyulladás és az inzulinrezisztencia öregedésre gyakorolt 
gyorsító hatását. A metabolikus szindróma elterjedtsége miatt ez jelentős 
népegészségügyi kockázatot jelent. Az inzulin, a növekedési hormon és az 
inzulinszerű növekedési faktorok hatásainak értékelése továbbra is 
ellentmondásos. Az egészséges, szellemileg és fizikailag aktív életmód, a 
kalóriacsökkentés mindenképpen előnyös. Az életet meghosszabbító szerek 
értékelése még vitatott. Orv Hetil. 2021; 162(33): 1318-1327. Summary. People 
want to live as long as possible in good health. If we eliminate the unfavorable 
external conditions, the life expectancy could exceed 100 years. In the 20th and 
21th centuries, life expectancy in welfare societies increased significantly, 
including in Hungary. Based on the reviewed literature, we examined what 
endocrinological and metabolic factors play a role in prolonging life in 
addition to genetics and inheritance. We examined all endogenous factors that 
can positively or negatively affect age-related diseases (Alzheimer's disease, 
cardiovascular disease, cancer) and longevity. We highlighted the aging effects 
of hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance, metabolic syndrome, the controversial 
role of insulin-like growth factor-1, and more recently discovered peptides 
involved in prolonging lifespan, such as klotho and humanin. We described the 
role of mitochondria in determining longevity, we demonstrated the process of 
mitohormesis and its stress-protective function. We presented the target organ 
of rapamycin, mTOR, the inhibition of which prolongs lifespan, as well as 
sirtuins. We covered the process of autophagy and described the role of 
senolytics in aging. The decrease in autoimmunity in old age contributes to the 
shortening of life expectancy, we referred to the coordinating role of the 
thymus. We highlighted the important role of intestinal microbiome in the 
regulation of longevity. We referred to human data obtained from observations on 
"centenarians". We examined what intervention options are available to prolong 
healthy life expectancy. Among the lifestyle options, we highlighted the 
beneficial role of calorie reduction and exercise. We examined the putative 
beneficial effects of some drugs. These include metformin, acarbose, 
resveratrol. The effect of each of these drugs is similar to calorie 
restriction. There is no "miracle cure" that has been shown to prolong life-span 
in humans. Some genes and gene mutations have beneficial effects, but this can 
be modified by environmental factors, diseases, accidents, and other external 
harms. We highlight the accelerating effects of obesity, low-grade inflammation, 
and insulin resistance on aging. Due to the prevalence of metabolic syndrome, 
this poses a significant risk to public health. The assessment of the effects of 
insulin, growth hormone, and insulin-like growth factors remains controversial. 
A healthy, mentally and physically active lifestyle, calorie reduction is 
definitely beneficial. The evaluation of life-prolonging agents is still 
controversial. Orv Hetil. 2021; 162(33): 1318-1327.

DOI: 10.1556/650.2021.32200
PMID: 34392236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Amyotroph Lateral Scler Frontotemporal Degener. 2022 May;23(3-4):284-291.
doi:  10.1080/21678421.2021.1962354. Epub 2021 Aug 14.

Characteristics of pain and the burden it causes in patients with amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis - a longitudinal study.

Wigand B(1), Schlichte I(1), Schreiber S(1)(2)(3), Heitmann J(1), Meyer T(4)(5), 
Dengler R(6), Petri S(6), Haghikia A(1)(2)(3), Vielhaber S(1)(2), Vogt S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Otto-von-Guericke University, Magdeburg, Germany.
(2)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Magdeburg, Germany.
(3)Center for Behavioral Brain Sciences (CBBS), Magdeburg, Germany.
(4)Department of Neurology, Center for ALS and other Motor Neuron Disorders, 
Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(5)Ambulanzpartner Soziotechnologie APST GmbH, Berlin, Germany.
(6)Department of Neurology, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: Pain currently plays a subordinate role in the clinical care of 
patients with ALS. We aim to examine epidemiological and clinical 
characteristics of pain as well as its impact throughout the disease course.
METHODS: During a longitudinal follow-up at three time points, 151 ALS patients 
from three German outpatient clinics completed the Brief Pain Inventory, 
ALS-Functional Rating Scale-Extension and ALS Depression Inventory. Analysis of 
variance and covariance with repeated measures were performed.
RESULTS: Pain was prevalent in 56% of the 151 patients at baseline and in 70% of 
the remaining 40 patients at the third survey. Of the 28 patients with pain who 
participated in all three surveys, about two thirds suffered from an average 
pain intensity corresponding to at least moderate pain on the numerical rating 
scale (NRS ≥ 4). Patients reported different pain qualities and localized the 
pain most frequently in the extremities, back and neck. Pain moderately impaired 
the functions of daily living. Pain intensity, pain quality and pain-related 
impairment did not significantly change over time. One third of the patients 
suffered from clinically relevant depressive symptoms. However, there was no 
conclusive evidence of a link between pain intensity and depressive symptoms.
CONCLUSION: Pain is frequent and constitutes an additional strain on ALS 
patients who have to endure a rapidly progressive and severely debilitating 
disease. This study contributes to better understanding of the characteristics 
of pain and its impact on ALS patients throughout the disease course and may 
thus help to more effectively address this symptom.

DOI: 10.1080/21678421.2021.1962354
PMID: 34392762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. J Matern Fetal Neonatal Med. 2022 Dec;35(25):7381-7388. doi: 
10.1080/14767058.2021.1949442. Epub 2021 Aug 16.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of universal hepatitis C screening in all United 
States pregnancies.

Susich M(1), Hersh AR(1), Greiner K(1), Chaiken SR(1), Caughey AB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oregon Health & Science University, 
Portland, OR, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of universal screening for HCV 
among all pregnant women in the United States.
METHODS: We designed a decision-analytic model to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness and outcomes associated with universal HCV screening in 
pregnancy compared to no screening. A theoretical cohort of 3.9 million women, 
the approximate number of annual live births in the United States was used. 
Outcomes included hepatocellular carcinoma, decompensated cirrhosis, liver 
transplant and death, in addition to cost and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs). Model inputs were derived from the literature and the 
willingness-to-pay threshold was $100,000 per QALY. Sensitivity analysis were 
conducted to evaluate the robustness of the results.
RESULTS: In a theoretical cohort of 3.9 million women, universal HCV screening 
resulted in 3003 fewer cases of hepatocellular carcinoma, 1484 fewer 
decompensated cirrhosis, 46 fewer liver transplants and 2665 fewer deaths from 
HCV when compared to no screening. Universal HCV screening was found to be the 
dominant strategy, meaning it resulted in lower costs and higher QALYs. 
Sensitivity analyses showed our model was robust over a wide range of 
assumptions.
CONCLUSION: Among pregnant women in the United States, universal HCV screening 
is cost effective compared with no screening.

DOI: 10.1080/14767058.2021.1949442
PMID: 34392786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Clin Ther. 2021 Sep;43(9):1536-1546. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2021.07.004.
Epub  2021 Aug 13.

Cost-effectiveness Analysis of Prophylaxis Versus On-demand Treatment for 
Children With Hemophilia B Without Inhibitors in China.

Liu G(1), Xin Q(1), Chen Z(1), Li L(2), Chen T(2), Wu R(3).

Author information:
(1)Hematology Oncology Center, Beijing Children's Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China.
(2)Shanghai Palan DataRx Co Ltd, Shanghai, China.
(3)Hematology Oncology Center, Beijing Children's Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China. Electronic address: wurunhui@bch.com.cn.

PURPOSE: Hemophilia B (HB) is a hereditary bleeding disorder caused by a 
deficiency of coagulation factor IX (FIX), which represents 15% to 20% of all 
patients with hemophilia. Clinical studies have found significant benefits of 
prophylaxis treatment with FIX versus on-demand (OD) treatment. However, these 
benefits are associated with an increase in FIX consumption and a considerable 
increase in cost. Most Chinese children with HB receive OD treatment. Only a 
small proportion of patients with HB receive prophylaxis treatment in China. The 
patients with inhibitors could result in more complicated bleeding events, joint 
status, or treatment patterns. The objective of this study is to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of prophylaxis compared with OD treatment in children with HB 
without inhibitors from the Chinese health care perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to analyze cost-effectiveness by comparing 
prophylaxis with OD treatment. The model uses a 17-year time horizon with a 
yearly cycle. Transition probabilities and utility weights were estimated using 
published studies. The cost data for patients with HB were collected from 
Beijing Children's Hospital and Capital Medical University. One-way and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed to assess the robustness of 
the results.
FINDINGS: The model projects that prophylaxis has an incremental 1.23 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). The incremental cost per QALY gained for 
individuals with HB receiving prophylaxis was ¥155,709.80 ($23,530.36) compared 
with the OD group, which is under the willingness-to-pay threshold (3 times the 
gross domestic product per capital according to the World Health Organization 
recommendations) in China of ¥193,932 ($29,306.37). Moreover, 1-way sensitivity 
analysis found that the results were sensitive to the utility of nonarticular 
bleeding. The lower this parameter is, the higher the probability is of the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for prophylaxis not being cost-effective. 
This finding infers that when the patients have a better QALY (higher utility) 
at the beginning, the cost for benefit from prophylaxis treatment is lower. The 
results of the probabilistic sensitivity analyses indicate that the probability 
of prophylaxis being cost-effective is 89.3%.
IMPLICATIONS: Although prophylaxis is a costly treatment, the results of this 
study indicate that it is cost-effective compared with OD treatment for children 
with HB in China.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2021.07.004
PMID: 34392959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. New Gener Comput. 2021;39(2):377-407. doi: 10.1007/s00354-021-00132-4. Epub
2021  Aug 10.

An Interval-Valued Intuitionistic Hesitant Fuzzy Methodology and Application.

Bharati SK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, Kamala Nehru College, University of Delhi, New 
Delhi, 110049 India.

Using advantages of interval-valued intuitionistic hesitant fuzzy sets (IVIHFS) 
for describing the hesitant and intuitionistic decisions of experts and 
identifying the limitations of previous research works about optimization 
techniques, this paper introduces a new optimization technique and provides a 
new computational algorithm, applicable in various real life multiobjective 
optimization problem (MOOP) of engineering and management sectors, and for this, 
a new operation between IVIHFSs is first introduced. On the basis of this 
concept, a stepwise computational algorithm is constructed, and it is an 
extension of both fuzzy and intuitionistic fuzzy optimization techniques. 
Finally, the proposed algorithm is illustrated using a production planning 
problem, and the obtained results are compared with the existing optimization 
techniques.

© Ohmsha, Ltd. and Springer Japan KK, part of Springer Nature 2021.

DOI: 10.1007/s00354-021-00132-4
PMCID: PMC8353938
PMID: 34393322

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of InterestAuthor of this paper declare 
that I have no conflict of interest.


484. Cancer Manag Res. 2021 Aug 7;13:6199-6205. doi: 10.2147/CMAR.S313275. 
eCollection 2021.

The Real-World Practice of Fruquintinib for Chinese Patients with Metastatic 
Colorectal Cancer.

Song Y(1), Qu T(1), Zhang H(1), Sun Y(1), Cui C(1), Chi Y(1), Zhang W(1), Wang 
X(1), Yang L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, National Cancer Center/National Clinical 
Research Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences 
and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 100021, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: In FRESCO trial, a phase III study of fruquintinib demonstrated a 
significant improvement on the overall survival (OS) of patients with metastatic 
colorectal cancer (mCRC) who failed to response to available standard 
treatments. The aim of the current study was to evaluate the safety and 
effectiveness of fruquintinib in Chinese mCRC patients in the real-world 
setting.
METHODS: Patients with mCRC treated with fruquintinib at our hospital were 
retrospectively reviewed. Patient demographics, treatment, adverse events and 
survival data were collected. OS and progression-free survival (PFS) were 
estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: In total, 76 patients were evaluated from December 2018 to January 
2020. The median (range) age was 59.5 (34-86) years, ECOG PS 0-1/2 was 
86.8%/13.2%, and 38 (50%)/30 (39.5%) patients had experienced more than two 
prior therapies for mCRC. The median treatment duration was 3.6 cycles. 
Treatment-related adverse events (TRAEs) resulted in dose reduction were 17.1% 
of the patients without any treatment discontinuation. The most common grade 3 
or 4 TRAEs were hypertension (9.2%), hand-foot skin reaction (7.9%), 
thrombocytopenia (3.9%), anaemia (2.6%), increased ALT (1.3%), oral mucositis 
(1.3%), proteinuria (1.3%) and neutropenia (1.3%). The median PFS was 5.1 months 
(95% CI 3.8-6.4 months), and the median OS was 12.0 months (95% CI 8.0-16.1 
months). In patients with hypertension or hypothyroidism, a survival extension 
approximate to 6 months was observed, but the difference is not yet 
statistically significant. CEA decreased after fruquintinib treatment could be 
considered as a potential predictor for better OS.
CONCLUSION: The outcome of this real-life study was consistent with that of the 
randomised controlled trial. There were no new safety concerns. Future studies 
of fruquintinib should be conducted to identify patients who tend to obtain more 
benefits from fruquintinib alone or in combination with other agents.

© 2021 Song et al.

DOI: 10.2147/CMAR.S313275
PMCID: PMC8357312
PMID: 34393513

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


485. Front Neurol. 2021 Jul 28;12:683094. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2021.683094.
eCollection  2021.

Advanced Care Planning in Parkinson's Disease: In-depth Interviews With Patients 
on Experiences and Needs.

Kurpershoek E(1)(2), Hillen MA(2), Medendorp NM(2), de Bie RMA(1), de Visser 
M(1), Dijk JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam UMC, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(2)Department of Medical Psychology, Amsterdam Public Health, Amsterdam UMC, 
University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands.

Introduction: Advance care planning (ACP) is an iterative process of discussing 
the needs, wishes, and preferences of patients regarding disease-specific and 
end-of-life issues. There is ample evidence that ACP improves the quality of 
life and promotes the autonomy of patients with cancer and motor neuron disease 
who have a high disease burden and shortened life expectancy. In Parkinson's 
disease (PD) though, knowledge about the experiences and preferences of patients 
regarding ACP is scarce, despite the major disease burden associated with PD. 
Aim: This study aims to explore the experiences, needs, and preferences of PD 
patients regarding the content and timing of ACP. Methods: In-depth interviews 
were conducted with a purposively selected sample of patients diagnosed with PD. 
Using a semi-structured topic list, the participants were asked about their 
prospects for a future living with PD and with whom they wanted to discuss this. 
Qualitative analysis was performed in parallel with data collection using a 
data-driven constant comparative approach. The transcribed interviews were coded 
and analyzed by two researchers using MAXQDA software. Results: Of all 20 
patients (13 males; age 47-82; disease duration 1-27 years), most expressed a 
wish to talk about ACP with a healthcare provider, enabling them to anticipate 
the uncertain future. The majority of patients preferred their healthcare 
provider to initiate the discussion on ACP, preferably at an early stage of the 
disease. Nearly all patients expressed the wish to receive more information 
regarding the long-term impact of PD, although, the preferred timing varied 
between patients. They also perceived that their neurologist was primarily 
focused on medication and had little time to address their need for a more 
holistic approach toward living with PD. Conclusion: Our results suggest that PD 
patients are in need of discussing ACP with their healthcare provider (HCP), 
even in the early stages of the disease. In addition, PD patients perceive a 
lack of information on their disease course and miss guidance on available 
supportive care. We recommend HCPs to inquire the information requirements and 
preferences of patients regarding ACP regularly, starting soon after diagnosis.

Copyright © 2021 Kurpershoek, Hillen, Medendorp, de Bie, de Visser and Dijk.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2021.683094
PMCID: PMC8355553
PMID: 34393972

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


486. Case Rep Hematol. 2021 Jul 21;2021:2580832. doi: 10.1155/2021/2580832. 
eCollection 2021.

Oxford-AstraZeneca Coronavirus Disease-2019 Vaccine-Induced Immune 
Thrombocytopenia on Day Two.

Razzaq AK(1), Al-Jasim A(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine-University of Basrah, Department of Haematology, Baghdad, 
Iraq.
(2)College of Medicine-University of Baghdad, Baghdad, Iraq.

INTRODUCTION: Vaccines have been one of the most impactful human discoveries 
that have significantly changed life expectancy. Immune thrombocytopenic purpura 
(ITP) is an autoimmune disease characterized by platelet damage, 
life-threatening thrombocytopenia, and haemorrhage when the platelet count 
reaches below 20 × 109/mcL. Its pathogenesis involves viral mimicry or 
T-cell-induced immune destruction in antibody-negative cases. The clinical 
manifestations of thrombocytopenia vary according to the severity (level of 
platelets) and range from being asymptomatic to severe haemorrhage. ITP is 
treated with immunosuppression. Case Presentation. A 26-year-old Iraqi male 
laboratory analyst with an unremarkable medical history presented with severe 
thrombocytopenia 2 days after receiving the Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus 
disease-2019 vaccine. The patient was asymptomatic with unremarkable examination 
findings. However, his low platelet count was discovered accidentally, and the 
patient did not exhibit the resistance pattern of ITP and recovered successfully 
with regular immunosuppressant treatment.
CONCLUSION: Patients with a history of thrombocytopenia can develop 
vaccine-induced thrombocytopenia earlier than the expected onset. Close 
monitoring, through regular complete blood counts, is highly recommended for 
patients with previous thrombocytopenia because the immune modulation process of 
the vaccine can worsen preexisting thrombocytopenia.

Copyright © 2021 Azhar Kareem Razzaq and Ameer Al-Jasim.

DOI: 10.1155/2021/2580832
PMCID: PMC8363434
PMID: 34395000

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


487. Geriatr Orthop Surg Rehabil. 2021 Aug 3;12:21514593211036231. doi: 
10.1177/21514593211036231. eCollection 2021.

Does Superior Bone Health Promote a Longer Lifespan?

Dayer SR(1), Mears SC(2), Pangle AK(1), Mendiratta P(1), Wei JY(1), Azhar G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Donald W. Reynolds Institute on Aging, UAMS, Little 
Rock, AR, USA.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, UAMS, Little Rock, AR, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Public health achievements throughout the last century have 
resulted in a steady increase in life expectancy. An emergent subset has 
distinguished themselves, living well beyond the ninth decade by avoiding or 
delaying the onset of most age-related diseases, including bone diseases and 
fractures. In this study, we evaluated the bone health of the oldest 
community-dwelling individuals living in rural Arkansas.
METHODS: 299 patients aged ≥90 years were retrospectively reviewed for recorded 
fractures within 12 years prior to the investigation period. Records were also 
examined for medications and test results pertinent to bone health, including 
thyroid stimulating hormone, vitamin D levels, hematocrit, hemoglobin, body mass 
index, and bone densitometric values.
RESULTS: 68 patients (23%) had at least one fracture documented, and 15 had >1 
fracture. 40% of patients with fractures had osteoporosis and 28% had 
osteopenia, respectively. 232 patients (78%) had no documented fractures, and of 
these, only 18% had osteoporosis and 16% had osteopenia. No significant clinical 
markers were found among the very old to explain the relatively low occurrence 
of fractures.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients over 90 years of age had an overall low prevalence of 
fractures and relative preservation of bone health, suggesting a preserved bone 
molecular profile in these individuals. Epigenetic factors and activity levels 
might also have favorably affected bone health. The low percentage of 
osteoporosis and fractures likely reduced the morbidity and mortality in this 
population, potentially contributing to their overall longevity.

© The Author(s) 2021.

DOI: 10.1177/21514593211036231
PMCID: PMC8358490
PMID: 34395047

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


488. Front Cell Dev Biol. 2021 Jul 29;9:716435. doi: 10.3389/fcell.2021.716435. 
eCollection 2021.

Functional and Cognitive Decline Is Associated With Increased Endothelial Cell 
Inflammation and Platelet Activation: Liquid Biopsy of Microvesicles in 
Community- Dwelling Octogenarians.

Chiva-Blanch G(1)(2)(3), Vilella-Figuerola A(1), Padró T(1)(4), Formiga F(5)(6), 
Ferrer A(7), Badimon L(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Program ICCC, Institut de Recerca Hospital Santa Creu i Sant 
Pau-IIB Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Endocrinology and Nutrition Department, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques 
August Pi Sunyer, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y 
Nutrición, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red Cardiovascular, Instituto de Salud 
Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(5)Geriatric Unit, Internal Medicine Service, Hospital Universitari de 
Bellvitge, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Bellvitge Biomedical Research Institute, IDIBELL, L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Primary Healthcare Centre "El Plà" CAP-I, Sant Feliu de Llobregat, Barcelona, 
Spain.

Increased life expectancy is usually associated with comorbidities, such as 
cardio and cerebrovascular disease causing impaired functionality. A common 
underlying cause of these comorbidities is vascular inflammation and injury. 
Elevated levels of circulating microvesicles (cMV), as a product of a hemostatic 
and inflammatory cell activation, could be direct mapping of an imbalanced 
hemostasis. In this manuscript, we aimed to investigate by liquid biopsy whether 
successful aging can be discriminated by cMV levels and phenotype. To this 
purpose, we included 135 community-dwelling octogenarians in a cross-sectional 
study. Successful aging was defined as good functional (Barthel Index > 90 
points, and Lawton index score > 7/4 points for women and men, respectively) and 
cognitive status (Spanish version of the Mini-Mental State Examination -MEC- > 
24 points) and no need for institutionalization. Total, annexin V positive 
(AV+), and AV- cMV from different cell origins from the vascular compartment 
were phenotypically characterized and quantified from fasting plasma samples by 
flow cytometry. Successful aging was associated with lower plasma concentrations 
of total and AV+ CD141+/CD41+-CD61+, and PAC1+/AV+, CD141+/AV+, and CD36+/AV- 
cMV. From these phenotypes, ROC curve analyses revealed that CD141+/AV+ and 
CD141+/CD41+-CD61+/AV+ endothelial- and platelet-derived cMV discriminate 
successful and non-successful aging with an AUC (95%CI) of 0.655 (0.551, 0.758), 
P = 0.005, and 0.638 (0.535, 0.741), P = 0.013, respectively. In conclusion, 
successful aging is associated with low levels of cMV released by endothelial 
cells and platelets, indicating lower endothelial cell inflammation and platelet 
activation. Our results contribute to the understanding of the link between 
unsuccessful aging, cognitive decline and vascular cell inflammatory 
disturbances.

Copyright © 2021 Chiva-Blanch, Vilella-Figuerola, Padró, Formiga, Ferrer and 
Badimon.

DOI: 10.3389/fcell.2021.716435
PMCID: PMC8358681
PMID: 34395448

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


489. Orthop J Sports Med. 2021 Aug 11;9(8):23259671211021592. doi: 
10.1177/23259671211021592. eCollection 2021 Aug.

Prognostic Factors for Patient-Reported Outcomes at 32 to 37 Years After 
Surgical or Nonsurgical Management of Anterior Cruciate Ligament Injury.

Filbay S(1), Andersson C(2), Gauffin H(2), Kvist J(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Exercise and Sports Medicine, Department of Physiotherapy, 
University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Division of Surgery, Orthopaedics and Oncology, Department of Biomedical and 
Clinical Sciences, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden.
(3)Unit of Physiotherapy, Division of Prevention, Rehabilitation and Community 
Medicine, Department of Health, Medicine and Caring Sciences, Linköping 
University, Linköping, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Knowledge to inform the identification of individuals with a poor 
long-term prognosis after anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury is limited. 
Identifying prognostic factors for long-term outcomes after ACL injury may 
inform targeted interventions to improve outcomes for those with a poor 
long-term prognosis.
PURPOSE: To determine whether ACL treatment (early augmented or nonaugmented ACL 
repair plus rehabilitation, rehabilitation alone, or rehabilitation plus delayed 
ACL reconstruction [ACLR]) and 4-year measures (quadriceps and hamstrings 
strength, single-leg hop, knee laxity, flexion and extension deficit, 
self-reported knee function, activity level) are prognostic factors for 
patient-reported outcomes at 32 to 37 years after acute ACL injury.
STUDY DESIGN: Cohort study; Level of evidence, 2.
METHODS: A total of 251 patients aged 15 to 40 years with acute ACL rupture 
between 1980 and 1985 were allocated to early ACL repair (augmented or 
nonaugmented) plus rehabilitation or to rehabilitation alone, based on birth 
year. One hundred ninety of 234 completed 32- to 37-year follow-up 
questionnaires (response rate, 81%); 18 people were excluded, resulting in 172 
patients available for analysis (mean age, 59 ± 6 years; 28% female). Potential 
prognostic factors assessed 4 years after ACL injury were ACL treatment (early 
ACL repair, rehabilitation alone, or delayed ACLR), isokinetic quadriceps and 
hamstrings strength, single-leg hop performance, knee flexion and extension 
deficit, knee laxity, Tegner activity scale, and Lysholm score. Outcomes 
included Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) subscales and the 
Anterior Cruciate Ligament Quality of Life (ACL-QOL) measure. Linear regression 
adjusted for age, sex, baseline meniscal injury, and contralateral ACL injury 
was used to assess potential prognostic factors for 32- to 37-year outcomes. 
Multiple imputation accounted for missing data.
RESULTS: A fair/poor Lysholm score (vs excellent/good) at 4 years was a 
prognostic factor for worse KOOS Pain (adjusted regression coefficient, -12 [95% 
confidence interval (CI), -19 to -4]), KOOS Symptoms (-15 [95% CI, -23 to -7]), 
KOOS Sport and Recreation (-19 [95% CI, -31 to -8]), and ACL QOL (-9 [95% CI, 
-18 to -1]) scores. A 4-year single-leg hop limb symmetry index <90% was a 
prognostic factor for worse KOOS Pain (adjusted regression coefficient, -9 [95% 
CI, -17 to -1]) and ACL QOL (-13 [95% CI, -22 to -3]) scores at long-term 
follow-up. A lower activity level, delayed ACLR, and increased knee laxity were 
prognostic factors in the crude analysis. Rehabilitation alone versus early 
repair, quadriceps and hamstring strength, and flexion and extension deficit 
were not related to 32- to 37-year outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Reduced self-reported knee function and single-leg hop performance 4 
years after ACL injury were prognostic factors for worse 32- to 37-year 
outcomes. Estimates exceeded clinically important thresholds, highlighting the 
importance of assessing these constructs when managing individuals with ACL 
injuries.
REGISTRATION: NCT03182647 (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier).

© The Author(s) 2021.

DOI: 10.1177/23259671211021592
PMCID: PMC8361529
PMID: 34395684

Conflict of interest statement: One or more of the authors has declared the 
following potential conflict of interest or source of funding: S.F. was funded 
by the Centre for Sport, Exercise and Osteoarthritis Research Versus Arthritis 
(grant reference 21595) and by a National Health and Medical Research Council 
investigator grant (1194428). S.F. and J.K. received funding from Linköping 
University, Sweden, that supported this collaboration. AOSSM checks author 
disclosures against the Open Payments Database (OPD). AOSSM has not conducted an 
independent investigation on the OPD and disclaims any liability or 
responsibility relating thereto.


490. Pharmacoeconomics. 2021 Nov;39(11):1327-1341. doi:
10.1007/s40273-021-01064-z.  Epub 2021 Aug 16.

Cost Effectiveness of Screening for Hepatitis C Virus in Iraq in the Era of 
Simplified Testing and Treatment.

Asker B(1), Jawad R(1), Asreah R(2), Jamal H(3), Jassem A(4), Inaya MA(4), Baker 
HA(3), Kozma S(5), Mansour E(5), McNamara B(6), Miller R(6), Darlington O(6), 
McEwan P(6), Sugrue DM(7), Jarallah H(8).

Author information:
(1)GIT Center, Baghdad, Iraq.
(2)Baghdad Teaching Hospital, Baghdad, Iraq.
(3)Sulaimania Hospital, Sulaimania, Iraq.
(4)Najaf Hospital, Najaf, Iraq.
(5)Gilead Sciences, Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
(6)Health Economics and Outcomes Research Ltd, Cardiff, UK.
(7)Health Economics and Outcomes Research Ltd, Cardiff, UK. 
daniel.sugrue@heor.co.uk.
(8)Basra Hospital, Basra, Iraq.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Recent advances in hepatitis C virus (HCV) diagnostic 
testing methods allow for a one-stop simplified 'test and cure' approach. The 
cost effectiveness of incorporating this simplified approach into HCV screening 
in Iraq remains uncertain. This study aimed to compare the cost effectiveness of 
different HCV testing and diagnostic approaches, and screening strategies in 
Iraq from a health service perspective.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis was undertaken using a hybrid model 
comprising a screening decision tree linked to a lifetime Markov model to 
estimate outcomes in HCV-infected people. Cost and utility estimates were 
sourced from the published literature and expert guidance provided by clinicians 
and policy makers in Iraq. Cost estimates were reported in 2019 USD or 2019 
Iraqi Dinar and both costs and benefits were discounted at 3.5% annually.
RESULTS: Strategies using a simplified approach were found to be cost saving in 
addition to improving patient outcomes when compared with a standard testing and 
diagnostic approach. When considering risk-based screening, a simplified 
approach was associated with a total cost saving of Iraqi Dinar 4375 billion 
(USD 3.7 billion) and per patient life-year and quality-adjusted life-year gains 
of 0.30 and 0.55, compared with a standard approach. Benefits and cost savings 
were driven by a 32.2% and 23.6% reduction in the incidence of cirrhosis and 
hepatocellular carcinoma, respectively. Estimated benefits and cost savings 
increased under total population screening. All screening and testing and 
diagnostic approaches were cost effective compared with a no screening scenario.
CONCLUSIONS: Improvements in the detection of HCV combined with a simplified 
one-stop testing and diagnostic approach represents an opportunity to reduce the 
burden of HCV in Iraq and may play a significant role in meeting World Health 
Organisation HCV elimination targets.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-021-01064-z
PMCID: PMC8364824
PMID: 34396494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Daniel M. Sugrue, Ryan Miller, Oliver 
Darlington, Bryony McNamara and Phil McEwan are employees of Health Economics 
and Outcomes Research Ltd. and received funding from Gilead Sciences to 
undertake the research outlined in this study. Sam Kozma and Eid Mansour are 
employees of Gilead Sciences. Bassem Asker, Rabah Asreah, Hiwa Abou Baker, 
Muslim Abdelkareem Inaya, Haydar Jamal, Haidar Jarallah, Ahmed Jassem and Raghad 
Jawad have no conflicts that are directly relevant to the content of this 
article.


491. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2021 Nov;30(6):e13501. doi: 10.1111/ecc.13501.
Epub  2021 Aug 15.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of home-based rehabilitation compared to usual care 
for people with inoperable lung cancer.

Edbrooke L(1)(2), Denehy L(2)(3), Patrick C(4), Tuffaha H(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiotherapy, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.
(2)Allied Health Department, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.
(3)Melbourne School of Health Sciences, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.
(4)Statistical Consulting Centre, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.
(5)Centre for the Business and Economics of Health, University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: Few economic evaluations of lung cancer rehabilitation exist. The aim 
of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of providing home-based 
rehabilitation for inoperable lung cancer.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis alongside a randomised controlled trial (RCT) 
of rehabilitation compared with usual care. The primary outcome was 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained. The incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio [ICER (95% CI)] and the net monetary benefit are reported. Value of 
information (VOI) analysis assessed the need/value of more research.
RESULTS: Seventy participants (34 intervention and 36 usual care), average (SD) 
age 63.0 (12.0) years, 32 (45.7%) stage IV. The average intervention cost was 
AU$3421 (AU$5352 usual care), and effect (QALY) was 0.30 (0.31 usual care). The 
ICER was AU$228,197 (-1,173,194 to 1,101,450) per QALY gained. The net monetary 
benefit was AU$1508, favouring the intervention. The probability that the 
intervention was more cost-effective than usual care, at a willingness to pay 
threshold of AU$50,000, was 75%. VOI analysis showed that additional research to 
resolve decision uncertainty is potentially worthwhile.
CONCLUSION: A high degree of uncertainty exists regarding the cost-effectiveness 
of lung cancer rehabilitation. Further RCTs, powered for economic evaluations 
and utilising rehabilitation sensitive outcomes, are required to support 
translation of evidence into clinical practice.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ecc.13501
PMID: 34396615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. J Drugs Dermatol. 2021 Aug 1;20(8):880-887. doi: 10.36849/JDD.6101.

Sustained High Efficacy and Favorable Safety Over Five Years in Patients With 
Burdensome Psoriasis (UNCOVER-1/UNCOVER-2).

Papp KA, Gerdes S, Leonardi CL, Elmaraghy H, See K, McKean-Matthews M, Konicek 
BW, Crane HM, Eastman W.

BACKGROUND: Long-term efficacy, safety, and quality of life with ixekizumab 
(IXE) through 5 years in UNCOVER-1 and UNCOVER-2 patients with baseline scalp, 
nail, or palmoplantar psoriasis were assessed.
METHODS: Patients included in this intent-to-treat subanalysis had baseline 
involvement in at least one of the three anatomic areas (scalp, fingernail, or 
palmoplantar locations) and 1) received IXE through week 60, with a 160-mg 
starting dose 80 mg Q2W through week 12 and Q4W thereafter, 2) achieved a static 
Physician&rsquo;s Global Assessment score of 0 or 1 at week 12, and 3) completed 
week 60 and continued treatment with IXE Q4W or were escalated to Q2W during the 
long-term extension. Efficacy outcomes (e.g., percent improvement in Psoriasis 
Scalp Severity Index [PSSI], Nail Psoriasis Severity Index [NAPSI], Palmoplantar 
Psoriasis Area and Severity [PPASI], and Dermatology Life Quality Index [DLQI]) 
were summarized by descriptive statistics through week 264.
RESULTS: Patients rapidly achieved and sustained improvements in scalp, nail, 
and palmoplantar psoriasis for up to 5 years with IXE. Patients achieved 
complete clearance at year 5: observed (scalp, 82%; nail, 73%; palmoplantar, 
96%) and mNRI (scalp, 77%; nail, 67%; palmoplantar, 85%). Up to 80% of patients 
reported DLQI 0,1 responses at week 12, which were sustained through week 264. 
No increases in the number of annual treatment-emergent adverse events were 
observed from years 1&ndash;5.
CONCLUSION: Patients receiving IXE for 5 years sustained high rates of 
improvement in scalp, nail, and palmoplantar psoriasis, with a long-term quality 
of life benefit with no unexpected safety signals. J Drugs Dermatol. 
2021;20(8):880-887. doi:10.36849/JDD.6101.

DOI: 10.36849/JDD.6101
PMID: 34397207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Curr Pharm Des. 2021;27(46):4650-4662. doi:
10.2174/1381612827666210816114003.

The Association between Tumor-associated Macrophages and Glioblastoma: A 
Potential Target for Therapy.

Heidari A(1), Sharif PM(1), Rezaei N(2).

