strategy into national gastric cancer policy in Japan: A cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Kowada A(1), Asaka M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Health, Kitasato University Graduate School of 
Medical Sciences, Kanagawa, Japan.
(2)Advanced Research Promotion Center, Health Sciences University of Hokkaido, 
Ishikari gun, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) eradication reduces gastric cancer 
risk. Since 2013, a population-wide H. pylori eradication strategy for patients 
with chronic gastritis has begun to prevent gastric cancer in Japan. The aim of 
this study was to evaluate the economic and health effects of H. pylori 
eradication strategy in national gastric cancer prevention program.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We developed a cohort state-transition model for H. 
pylori eradication and no eradication over a lifetime horizon from a healthcare 
payer perspective, and performed one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses. 
We targeted a hypothetical cohort of H. pylori-positive patients aged 20, 30, 
40, 50, 60, 70, and 80. The main outcomes were costs, quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), life expectancy life-years (LYs), incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios, gastric cancer cases, and deaths from gastric cancer.
RESULTS: H. pylori eradication was more effective and cost-saving for all age 
groups than no eradication. Sensitivity analyses showed strong robustness of the 
results. From 2013-2019 for 8.50 million patients, H. pylori eradication saved 
US$3.75 billion, increased 11.11 million QALYs and 0.45 million LYs, and 
prevented 284,188 cases and 65,060 deaths. For 35.59 million patients without 
eradication, H. pylori eradication has the potential to save US$14.82 billion, 
increase 43.10 million QALYs and 1.66 million LYs, and prevent 1,084,532 cases 
and 250,256 deaths.
CONCLUSIONS: National policy using population-wide H. pylori eradication to 
prevent gastric cancer has significant cost savings and health impacts for 
young-, middle-, and old-aged individuals in Japan. The findings strongly 
support the promotion of H. pylori eradication strategy for all age groups in 
high-incidence countries.

© 2021 The Authors. Helicobacter published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hel.12837
PMCID: PMC9286640
PMID: 34278663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author has no conflicts of interest to 
declare.


126. J Vis Exp. 2021 Jul 2;(173). doi: 10.3791/61850.

Functionalization of Silver/Titanium Dioxide Composites in Chitosan-based 
Coatings and their Egg Preservation Performances.

Chen X(1), Wang WZ(2), Wang Y(#)(3), Wang S(#)(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Civil and Architecture Engineering, Guilin University of 
Technology; Guangxi Key Laboratory of New Energy and Building Energy Saving.
(2)Saint James School.
(3)Guangxi Beibu Gulf Engineering Research Center for Green Marine Materia; 
Guangxi Engineering Research Center for Solid Waste Resources Development and 
Application, Guilin University of Technology; yuanhaowang@ppsuc-edu.cn.
(4)Department of Physics, College of Science, Tibet University; Institute of 
Oxygen Supply, Tibet University; wsf@utibet.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Eggs are an excellent source of proteins, minerals, and vitamins, which have 
been popularly consumed in daily diet all over the world. The micro-pores and 
micro-cracks on the eggshells, however, lead to the loss of moisture and the 
escape of CO2, resulting in the acceleration of egg deterioration and economic 
loss. To enhance the stability and sterilizability of the existing 
chitosan-based coating materials and to develop novel multifunctional 
nano-composites for anti-bacterial and egg preservation, silver/titanium dioxide 
(Ag/TiO2) composites are synthesized and applied to modify chitosan for the 
extension of the egg shelf life. Electron microscope (SEM) images are used to 
analyze the structure and morphology of composite particles and the morphology 
of coated eggshells. The preservation performances of composite coatings are 
evaluated by various parameters: weight loss, Haugh unit, albumen pH and 
eggshell morphologies of the samples. Adoption of Ag/TiO2 composites contributes 
to a synergistic effect to chitosan, which could prolong the preservation period 
further. The performances of chitosan coating, however, are presently limited by 
the existing particle species and concentration, which requires optimization in 
future studies. Methods in this study examine novel coating materials, which 
could be created by adding specific nanoparticles into the coating precursor, to 
achieve the combinative effects of the nanoparticle and the precursor, as well 
as to prepare novel multifunctional coatings in the field of food preservation.

DOI: 10.3791/61850
PMID: 34279501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. JAMA Netw Open. 2021 Jul 1;4(7):e2115859. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2021.15859.

Disability-Adjusted Life-Years Associated With Intracerebral Hemorrhage and 
Secondary Injury.

Haupenthal D(1), Kuramatsu JB(1), Volbers B(1), Sembill JA(1), Mrochen A(1), 
Balk S(1), Hoelter P(2), Lücking H(2), Engelhorn T(2), Dörfler A(2), Schwab 
S(1), Huttner HB(1), Sprügel MI(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, 
Erlangen, Germany.
(2)Department of Neuroradiology, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität 
Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany.

IMPORTANCE: Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) contributes significantly to the 
global burden of disease.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the association of ICH and secondary injury with 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) for the individual patient.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This cohort study was conducted using data 
from the Universitätsklinikum Erlangen Cohort of Patients With Spontaneous 
Intracerebral Hemorrhage study. Consecutive patients admitted to a single 
tertiary care center from January 1, 2006, to December 31, 2015, were included. 
The sample comprised patients with oral anticoagulation-associated ICH (OAC-ICH) 
or primary spontaneous ICH (non-OAC-ICH). Statistical analysis was conducted 
from October 1 to December 31, 2020.
EXPOSURES: ICH occurrence and secondary injury.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: DALYs, years of life lost (YLL), and years lived 
with disability (YLD) were analyzed by hematoma location, ICH volume, and 
secondary injury (ie, hematoma expansion [HE], intraventricular hemorrhage 
[IVH], and perihemorrhagic edema [PHE]).
RESULTS: Among 1322 patients with ICH, 615 (46.5%) were women and the mean (SD) 
age at hospital admission was 71 (13) years; ICH was associated with a mean (SD) 
of 9.46 (8.08) DALYs, 5.72 (8.29) YLL, and 3.74 (5.95) YLD. There were 
statistically significant differences in mean (SD) DALYs by extent of hematoma 
volume (< 10 mL ICH: 7.05 [6.79] DALYs; 10-30 mL ICH: 9.91 [8.35] DALYs; >30 mL 
ICH: 12.42 [8.47] DALYs; P < .001) and ICH location (deep location: 10.60 [8.35] 
DALYs; lobar location: 8.18 [7.63] DALYs; cerebellum: 8.14 [6.80] DALYs; 
brainstem: 12.63 [9.21] DALYs; P < .001). Regarding population-level disease 
burden of secondary injuries after ICH, there was a statistically significant 
difference in mean (SD) by injury type, with 0.94 (3.19) DALYs for HE, 2.45 
(4.16) DALYs for IVH, and 1.96 (2.66) DALYs for PHE (P < .001) among the entire 
ICH cohort. Regarding individual-level exposure to secondary injuries after ICH, 
there were a mean (SD) 7.14 (6.62) DALYs for HE, 4.58 (4.75) DALYs for IVH, and 
3.35 (3.28) DALYs for PHE among patients with ICH affected by secondary 
injuries.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: These findings suggest that there is a high burden of 
disability associated with ICH and secondary injuries, and the findings may 
guide public health strategies. The study findings further suggest that IVH and 
PHE may be relevant for the overall outcome of patients with ICH, that DALYs may 
represent a viable outcome parameter for studies to evaluate treatment outcomes 
in ICH research, and that IVH and PHE may represent potential treatment targets.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2021.15859
PMCID: PMC8290300
PMID: 34279649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Kuramatsu 
reported receiving grants from Medtronic and personal fees from Abbott, Bayer, 
Pfizer, and Biogen outside the submitted work. Dr. Volbers reported receiving 
personal fees from Pfizer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Bayer, Ipsen, and CSL Behring 
and grants from Inselspital outside the submitted work. Dr Huttner reported 
receiving personal fees from Bayer, Boehringer Ingelheim, Portola 
Pharmaceuticals, Novartis, and Daiichi Sankyo and grants from Medtronic outside 
the submitted work. No other disclosures were reported.


128. J Med Entomol. 2021 Nov 9;58(6):2247-2254. doi: 10.1093/jme/tjab129.

First Life Table of Synthesiomyia nudiseta (Diptera: Muscidae) From Palearctic 
Region for Analyzing the Effect on Its Dispersal Ability.

Ivorra T(1)(2), García-Martínez B(1), Martínez-Sánchez A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Sciences and Natural Resources, University of 
Alicante, E-03080, Alicante (Spain).
(2)Department of Medical Microbiology and Parasitology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Universiti Teknologi MARA, Sungai Buloh campus, 47000 Sungai Buloh, Selangor, 
Malaysia.

To better understand the population dynamics and dispersal ability of insect 
species, it is often helpful to derive a life table containing fundamental 
demographic data. The aim of this study was to determine a life table for the 
predatory necrophagous species Synthesiomyia nudiseta (van der Wulp, 1883) on a 
pig liver diet and under controlled laboratory conditions (29.5 ± 2. 5°C, RH 50 
± 15%, and a photoperiod of 12:12). This species has medical and veterinary 
importance and its distribution extends in tropical and subtropical areas and 
now it has been established in the southwestern of Europe. The mean adult 
longevity was 36. 18 ± 2. 06 d and the net reproduction rate, R, was 27.65 
offspring/female, the mean generation time, T, was 22. 09 d, the finite rate of 
increase, λ, was 1. 16 d-1, and the intrinsic rate of increase, r, was 0. 15 
d-1. These results indicate that S. nudiseta cannot be considered an 
r-strategist as the most common synanthropic necrophagous blowflies due to its 
predatory behavior; however, its invasive and colonist abilities are discussed. 
This is the first life table study of this species from Palearctic region to 
analyze the effect of its dispersal ability.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jme/tjab129
PMID: 34279664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Heart Fail Rev. 2022 Mar;27(2):677-696. doi: 10.1007/s10741-021-10131-8.
Epub  2021 Jul 19.

Advanced cardiovascular multimodal imaging and aortic stenosis.

Cionca C(1)(2), Zlibut A(3), Agoston-Coldea L(4), Mocan T(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Physiology Department, Iuliu Hatieganu University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(2)Department of Radiology, Affidea Hiperdia Diagnostic Imaging Center, 
Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Iuliu Hatieganu University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Iuliu Hatieganu University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, Cluj-Napoca, Romania. luciacoldea@yahoo.com.
(5)Department of Nanomedicine, Regional Institute of Gastroenterology and 
Hepatology, Cluj-Napoca, Romania.

Aortic valve stenosis has become the most common valvular heart disease on 
account of aging population and increasing life expectancy. Echocardiography is 
the primary diagnosis tool for this, but it still has many flaws. Therefore, 
advanced cardiovascular multimodal imaging techniques are continuously being 
developed in order to overcome these limitations. Cardiac magnetic resonance 
imaging (CMR) allows a comprehensive morphological and functional evaluation of 
the aortic valve and provides important data for the diagnosis and risk 
stratification in patients with aortic stenosis. CMR can functionally assess the 
aortic flow using two-dimensional and time-resolved three-dimensional 
velocity-encoded phase-contrast techniques. Furthermore, by late gadolinium 
enhancement and T1-mapping, CMR can reveal the presence of both irreversible 
replacement and diffuse interstitial myocardial fibrosis. Moreover, its role in 
guiding aortic valve replacement procedures is beginning to take shape. Recent 
studies have rendered the importance of active and passive biomechanics in risk 
stratification and prognosis prediction in patients with aortic stenosis, but 
more work is required is just in its infancy, but data are promising. In 
addition, cardiac computed tomography is particularly useful for the diagnosis 
of aortic valve stenosis, and in preprocedural evaluation of the aorta, while 
positron emission tomography can be also used to assess valvular inflammation 
and active calcification. The purpose of this review is to provide a 
comprehensive overview of current available data regarding advanced 
cardiovascular multimodal imaging in aortic stenosis.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10741-021-10131-8
PMID: 34279768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2021 Jul 19;7(7):CD013157. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD013157.pub2.

Nutritional supplementation for nonalcohol-related fatty liver disease: a 
network meta-analysis.

Komolafe O(1), Buzzetti E(2), Linden A(3), Best LM(3), Madden AM(4), Roberts 
D(3), Chase TJ(5), Fritche D(6), Freeman SC(7), Cooper NJ(7), Sutton AJ(7), 
Milne EJ(8), Wright K(9), Pavlov CS(10), Davidson BR(3), Tsochatzis E(2), 
Gurusamy KS(3)(10).

Author information:
(1)University College London, London, UK.
(2)Sheila Sherlock Liver Centre, Royal Free Hospital and the UCL Institute of 
Liver and Digestive Health, London, UK.
(3)Division of Surgery and Interventional Science, University College London, 
London, UK.
(4)School of Life and Medical Sciences, University of Hertfordshire, Hatfield, 
UK.
(5)Department of General Surgery, Homerton University Hospital NHS Foundation 
Trust, London, UK.
(6)UCL Medical School, London, UK.
(7)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK.
(8)Centre for Trust, Peace and Social Relations, Coventry University, Coventry, 
UK.
(9)Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group, Copenhagen Trial Unit, Centre for Clinical 
Intervention Research, The Capital Region of Denmark, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen 
University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(10)Department of Therapy, I.M. Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University, 
Moscow, Russian Federation.

Update of
    doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD013157.

BACKGROUND: The prevalence of non-alcohol-related fatty liver disease (NAFLD) 
varies between 19% and 33% in different populations. NAFLD decreases life 
expectancy and increases risks of liver cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, and 
the requirement for liver transplantation. Uncertainty surrounds relative 
benefits and harms of various nutritional supplements in NAFLD. Currently no 
nutritional supplement is recommended for people with NAFLD.
OBJECTIVES: • To assess the benefits and harms of different nutritional 
supplements for treatment of NAFLD through a network meta-analysis • To generate 
rankings of different nutritional supplements according to their safety and 
efficacy SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled 
Trials, MEDLINE, Embase, Science Citation Index Expanded, Conference Proceedings 
Citation Index-Science, the World Health Organization International Clinical 
Trials Registry Platform, and trials registers until February 2021 to identify 
randomised clinical trials in people with NAFLD.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included only randomised clinical trials (irrespective of 
language, blinding, or status) for people with NAFLD, irrespective of method of 
diagnosis, age and diabetic status of participants, or presence of non-alcoholic 
steatohepatitis (NASH). We excluded randomised clinical trials in which 
participants had previously undergone liver transplantation.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We performed a network meta-analysis with OpenBUGS 
using Bayesian methods whenever possible and calculated differences in 
treatments using hazard ratios (HRs), odds ratios (ORs), and rate ratios with 
95% credible intervals (CrIs) based on an available-case analysis, according to 
National Institute of Health and Care Excellence Decision Support Unit guidance.
MAIN RESULTS: We included in the review a total of 202 randomised clinical 
trials (14,200 participants). Nineteen trials were at low risk of bias. A total 
of 32 different interventions were compared in these trials. A total of 115 
trials (7732 participants) were included in one or more comparisons. The 
remaining trials did not report any of the outcomes of interest for this review. 
Follow-up ranged from 1 month to 28 months. The follow-up period in trials that 
reported clinical outcomes was 2 months to 28 months. During this follow-up 
period, clinical events related to NAFLD such as mortality, liver cirrhosis, 
liver decompensation, liver transplantation, hepatocellular carcinoma, and 
liver-related mortality were sparse. We did not calculate effect estimates for 
mortality because of sparse data (zero events for at least one of the groups in 
the trial). None of the trials reported that they measured overall 
health-related quality of life using a validated scale. The evidence is very 
uncertain about effects of interventions on serious adverse events (number of 
people or number of events). We are very uncertain about effects on adverse 
events of most of the supplements that we investigated, as the evidence is of 
very low certainty. However, people taking PUFA (polyunsaturated fatty acid) may 
be more likely to experience an adverse event than those not receiving an active 
intervention (network meta-analysis results: OR 4.44, 95% CrI 2.40 to 8.48; 
low-certainty evidence; 4 trials, 203 participants; direct evidence: OR 4.43, 
95% CrI 2.43 to 8.42). People who take other supplements (a category that 
includes nutritional supplements other than vitamins, fatty acids, 
phospholipids, and antioxidants) had higher numbers of adverse events than those 
not receiving an active intervention (network meta-analysis: rate ratio 1.73, 
95% CrI 1.26 to 2.41; 6 trials, 291 participants; direct evidence: rate ratio 
1.72, 95% CrI 1.25 to 2.40; low-certainty evidence). Data were sparse (zero 
events in all groups in the trial) for liver transplantation, liver 
decompensation, and hepatocellular carcinoma. So, we did not perform formal 
analysis for these outcomes. The evidence is very uncertain about effects of 
other antioxidants (antioxidants other than vitamins) compared to no active 
intervention on liver cirrhosis (HR 1.68, 95% CrI 0.23 to 15.10; 1 trial, 99 
participants; very low-certainty evidence). The evidence is very uncertain about 
effects of interventions in any of the remaining comparisons, or data were 
sparse (with zero events in at least one of the groups), precluding formal 
calculations of effect estimates. Data were probably because of the very short 
follow-up period (2 months to 28 months). It takes follow-up of 8 to 28 years to 
detect differences in mortality between people with NAFLD and the general 
population. Therefore, it is unlikely that differences in clinical outcomes are 
noted in trials providing less than 5 to 10 years of follow-up.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The evidence indicates considerable uncertainty about 
effects of nutritional supplementation compared to no additional intervention on 
all clinical outcomes for people with non-alcohol-related fatty liver disease. 
Accordingly, high-quality randomised comparative clinical trials with adequate 
follow-up are needed. We propose registry-based randomised clinical trials or 
cohort multiple randomised clinical trials (study design in which multiple 
interventions are trialed within large longitudinal cohorts of patients to gain 
efficiencies and align trials more closely to standard clinical practice) 
comparing interventions such as vitamin E, prebiotics/probiotics/synbiotics, 
PUFAs, and no nutritional supplementation. The reason for the choice of 
interventions is the impact of these interventions on indirect outcomes, which 
may translate to clinical benefit. Outcomes in such trials should be mortality, 
health-related quality of life, decompensated liver cirrhosis, liver 
transplantation, and resource utilisation measures including costs of 
intervention and decreased healthcare utilisation after minimum follow-up of 8 
years (to find meaningful differences in clinically important outcomes).

Copyright © 2021 The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD013157.pub2
PMCID: PMC8406904
PMID: 34280304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None known for any of the review authors.


131. Neurobiol Dis. 2021 Oct;158:105446. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2021.105446. Epub
2021  Jul 16.

Scopolamine prevents aberrant mossy fiber sprouting and facilitates remission of 
epilepsy after brain injury.

Meller S(1), Käufer C(1), Gailus B(2), Brandt C(1), Löscher W(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology, and Pharmacy, University of 
Veterinary Medicine, Hannover, Germany.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology, and Pharmacy, University of 
Veterinary Medicine, Hannover, Germany; Center for Systems Neuroscience, 
Hannover, Germany.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology, and Pharmacy, University of 
Veterinary Medicine, Hannover, Germany; Center for Systems Neuroscience, 
Hannover, Germany. Electronic address: wolfgang.loescher@tiho-hannover.de.

Prevention or modification of acquired epilepsy in patients at risk is an 
urgent, yet unmet, clinical need. Following acute brain insults, there is an 
increased risk of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (mTLE), which is often 
associated with debilitating comorbidities and reduced life expectancy. The 
latent period between brain injury and the onset of epilepsy may offer a 
therapeutic window for interfering with epileptogenesis. The pilocarpine model 
of mTLE is widely used in the search for novel antiepileptogenic treatments. 
Recent biochemical studies indicated that cholinergic mechanisms play a role in 
the epileptogenic alterations induced by status epilepticus (SE) in this and 
other models of mTLE, which prompted us to evaluate whether treatment with the 
muscarinic antagonist scopolamine during the latent period after SE is capable 
of preventing or modifying epilepsy and associated behavioral and cognitive 
alterations in female Sprague-Dawley rats. First, in silico pharmacokinetic 
modeling was used to select a dosing protocol by which M-receptor inhibitory 
brain levels of scopolamine are maintained during prolonged treatment. This 
protocol was verified by drug analysis in vivo. Rats were then treated twice 
daily with scopolamine over 17 days after SE, followed by drug wash-out and 
behavioral and video/EEG monitoring up to ~6 months after SE. Compared to 
vehicle controls, rats that were treated with scopolamine during the latent 
period exhibited a significantly lower incidence of spontaneous recurrent 
seizures during periods of intermittent recording in the chronic phase of 
epilepsy, less behavioral excitability, less cognitive impairment, and 
significantly reduced aberrant mossy fiber sprouting in the hippocampus. The 
present data may indicate that scopolamine exerts 
antiepileptogenic/disease-modifying activity in the lithium-pilocarpine rat 
model, possibly involving increased remission of epilepsy as a new mechanism of 
disease-modification. For evaluating the rigor of the present data, we envision 
a study that more thoroughly addresses the gender bias and video-EEG recording 
limitations of the present study.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2021.105446
PMID: 34280524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Jul 1;18(13):7043. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18137043.

Prescription Habits Related to Chronic Pathologies of Elderly People in Primary 
Care in the Western Part of Romania: Current Practices, International 
Recommendations, and Future Perspectives Regarding the Overuse and Misuse of 
Medicines.

Buda V(1)(2), Prelipcean A(1), Cristescu C(1), Roja A(3), Dalleur O(4), Andor 
M(5), Danciu C(1)(2), Ledeti A(1)(6), Dehelean CA(1)(2), Cretu O(5).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, "Victor Babes" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
Eftimie Murgu Square, No. 2, 300041 Timisoara, Romania.
(2)Research Centre for Pharmaco-Toxicological Evaluation, "Victor Babes" 
University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Eftimie Murgu Square, No. 2, 300041 
Timisoara, Romania.
(3)Faculty of Economics and Business Administration, West University of 
Timisoara, Vasile Parvan Boulevard, No.4, 300223 Timisoara, Romania.
(4)Clinical Pharmacy Research Group, Louvain Drug Research Institute, Universite 
Catholique de Louvain, E. Mounier Street, No. 81, 1200 Woluwe-Saint-Lambert, 
Belgium.
(5)Faculty of Medicine, "Victor Babes" University of Medicine and Pharmacy 
Eftimie Murgu Square, No. 2, 300041 Timisoara, Romania.
(6)Advanced Instrumental Screening Center, "Victor Babes" University of Medicine 
and Pharmacy, Eftimie Murgu Square, No. 2, 300041 Timisoara, Romania.

The European Commission's 2019 report regarding the state of health profiles 
highlighted the fact that Romania is among the countries with the lowest life 
expectancy in the European Union. Therefore, the objectives of the present study 
were to assess the current prescription habits of general physicians in Romania 
related to medicines taken by the elderly population for chronic conditions in 
both urban and rural setting and to discuss/compare these practices with the 
current international recommendations for the elderly (American-Beers 2019 
criteria and European-STOPP/START v.2, 2015 criteria). A total of 2790 
electronic prescriptions for chronic pathologies collected from 18 community 
pharmacies in the western part of Romania (urban and rural zones) were included. 
All medicines had been prescribed by general physicians. We identified the 
following situations of medicine overuse: 15% of the analyzed prescriptions 
involved the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) for >2 weeks, 
12% involved the use of a proton-pump inhibitor (PPI) for >8 weeks, theophylline 
was the bronchodilator used as a monotherapy in 3.17% of chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease cases, and zopiclone was the hypnotic drug of choice for 2.31% 
of cases. Regarding the misuse of medicines, 2.33% of analyzed prescriptions 
contained an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and an angiotensin II 
receptor blocker (ARB) for patients with renal failure in addition to vitamin K 
antagonists (AVKs) and NSAIDs in 0.43% of cases. Prescriptions for COX2 NSAIDs 
for periods longer than 2 weeks for patients with cardiovascular disorders 
accounted for 1.33% of prescriptions, and trihexyphenidyl was used as a 
monotherapy for patients with Parkinson's disease in 0.18% of cases. From the 
included medical prescriptions, 32.40% (the major percent of 2383 prescriptions) 
had two potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs). Rural zones were found to 
be risk factor for PIMs. Decreasing the chronic prescription of NSAIDs and PPIs, 
discontinuing the use of hypnotic drugs, and avoiding potentially harmful 
drug-drug associations will have long term beneficial effects for Romanian 
elderly patients.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18137043
PMCID: PMC8297022
PMID: 34280980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


133. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2022 Jun;166(6):1070-1077. doi: 
10.1177/01945998211028161. Epub 2021 Jul 20.

Impact of Socioeconomic Status on Paranasal Sinus Cancer Disease-Specific and 
Conditional Survival.

Sharma RK(1), Del Signore A(2), Govindaraj S(2), Iloreta A(2), Overdevest JB(1), 
Gudis DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Columbia University 
Irving Medical Center, NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, New York, New York, USA.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Mount Sinai School of 
Medicine. New York, New York, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Socioeconomic status (SES) is often used to quantify social 
determinants of health. This study uses the National Cancer Institute SES index 
to examine the effect of SES on disease-specific survival and 5-year conditional 
disease-specific survival (CDSS; the change in life expectancy with increasing 
survivorship) in paranasal sinus cancer.
STUDY DESIGN: Cross-sectional analysis.
SETTING: National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results 
(SEER) program.
METHODS: A study of adults with sinus cancer between 1973 and 2015 was 
performed. The Yost index, a census tract-level composite score of SES, was used 
to categorize patients. Kaplan-Meier analysis and Cox regression for 
disease-specific survival were stratified by SES. CDSS was calculated with 
simplified models. Logistic regression was conducted to identify risk factors 
for advanced stage at diagnosis, multimodal therapy, and diagnosis of squamous 
cell carcinoma.
RESULTS: There were 3437 patients analyzed. In Cox models adjusting for 
patient-specific factors, the lowest SES tertile exhibited worse mortality 
(hazard ratio, 1.22; 95% CI, 1.07-1.39; P < .01). After addition of treatment 
and pathology, SES was not significant (P = .07). The lowest SES tertile was 
more often diagnosed at later stages (odds ratio [OR], 1.52; 95% CI, 1.12-2.06; 
P < .01). For those with regional/distant disease, the middle tertile (OR, 0.75; 
95% CI, 0.63-0.90; P < .01) and lowest tertile (OR, 0.75; 95% CI, 0.62-0.91; P < 
.01) were less likely to receive multimodal therapy. SES tertiles primarily 
affected 5-year CDSS for regional/distant disease. CDSS for all stages converged 
over time.
CONCLUSION: Lower SES is associated with worse outcomes in paranasal sinus 
cancer. Research should be devoted toward understanding factors that contribute 
to such disparities, including tumor pathology and treatment course.

DOI: 10.1177/01945998211028161
PMID: 34281443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Fungal Biol. 2021 Aug;125(8):621-629. doi: 10.1016/j.funbio.2021.03.004.
Epub  2021 Mar 31.

Selection and characterization of two monoclonal antibodies specific for the 
Aspergillus flavus major antigenic cell wall protein Aflmp1.

Ansari S(1), Mousavi A(2), Safarnejad MR(3), Farrokhi N(4), Alavi SM(5), 
Schillberg S(6), Nölke G(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Molecular Biotechnology, National Institute of Genetic 
Engineering and Biotechnology, Tehran, Iran; Fraunhofer Institute for Molecular 
Biology and Applied Ecology IME, Forckenbeckstrasse 6, 52074 Aachen, Germany.
(2)Department of Plant Molecular Biotechnology, National Institute of Genetic 
Engineering and Biotechnology, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: 
m-amir@nigeb.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Plant Viruses, Iranian Research Institute of Plant Protection, 
Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Tehran, 
Iran.
(4)Department of Cell & Molecular Biology, Faculty of Life Sciences and 
Biotechnology, Shahid Beheshti University, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Department of Plant Molecular Biotechnology, National Institute of Genetic 
Engineering and Biotechnology, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Fraunhofer Institute for Molecular Biology and Applied Ecology IME, 
Forckenbeckstrasse 6, 52074 Aachen, Germany.
(7)Fraunhofer Institute for Molecular Biology and Applied Ecology IME, 
Forckenbeckstrasse 6, 52074 Aachen, Germany. Electronic address: 
greta.noelke@ime.fraunhofer.de.

Aspergillus flavus is a major fungal pathogen of plants and an opportunistic 
pathogen of humans. In addition to the direct impact of infection, it produces 
immunosuppressive and carcinogenic aflatoxins. The early detection of A. flavus 
is therefore necessary to diagnose and monitor fungal infection, to prevent 
aflatoxin contamination of food and feed, and for effective antifungal therapy. 
Aspergillus-specific monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) are promising as diagnostic 
and therapeutic reagents for the tracking and treatment of Aspergillus 
infections, respectively. However, A. flavus has a complex cell wall composition 
and dynamic morphology, hindering the discovery of mAbs with well-characterized 
targets. Here we describe the generation and detailed characterization of 
mAb5.52 (IgG2aκ) and mAb17.15 (IgG1κ), which bind specifically to the highly 
immunogenic cell wall antigen A. flavus mannoprotein 1 (Aflmp1). Both mAbs were 
generated using hybridoma technology following the immunization of mice with a 
recombinant truncated version of Aflmp1 (ExD, including the homologous CR4 
domain) produced in bacteria. We show that mAb5.52 and mAb17.15 bind 
specifically to A. flavus and A. parasiticus cell wall fragments (CWFs), with no 
cross-reaction to CWFs from other fungal pathogens. Immunofluorescence 
microscopy revealed that both mAbs bind to the surface of Aspergillus hyphae and 
that mAb17.15 also binds to spores. The epitope for both mAbs is localized 
within the CR4 region of the Aflmp1 protein. These Aspergillus-specific mAbs may 
be useful for the early detection of fungal infection in food/feed crops, for 
serodiagnosis in patients with invasive aspergillosis caused by A. flavus 
infection and for the development of antibody-expressing disease-resistant 
crops.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.funbio.2021.03.004
PMID: 34281655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Semin Oncol Nurs. 2021 Aug;37(4):151177. doi: 10.1016/j.soncn.2021.151177.
Epub  2021 Jul 16.

Treating CLL with Bruton Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors: The Role of the Outpatient 
Oncology Nurse.

Randhawa B(1), Lewis E(1), Owen C(2).

Author information:
(1)Alberta Blood and Marrow Transplant Clinic, Tom Baker Cancer Center, Alberta 
Health Services, Calgary, Alb, Canada.
(2)Associate Professor, Division of Hematology & Hematological Malignancies, 
University of Calgary, Calgary, Alb, Canada. Electronic address: 
Carolyn.owen@ahs.ca.

OBJECTIVES: To summarize the role of Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitors in 
the management of chronic lymphocytic leukemia with a focus on the nursing role 
in relation to patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia being treated with BTK 
inhibitors.
DATA SOURCES: These include published articles (PubMed) and national and 
international guideline documents.
CONCLUSION: BTK inhibitors have revolutionized the therapy of chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia and have become the most frequently used therapy today. 
Despite the many advantages of BTK inhibitors, adverse events remain a leading 
cause of treatment discontinuation, particularly for the first-in-class BTK 
inhibitor. Second-generation BTK inhibitors appear to have a better tolerability 
profile but still require adverse event management given their prolonged 
duration of therapy. Awareness and management of side effects by the oncology 
care team is essential for ensuring both compliance and safety with ongoing 
treatment.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING PRACTICE: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is a chronic 
illness with a long-life expectancy. For the patients who require therapy, BTK 
inhibitor therapy is a frequently applied treatment with impressive efficacy. 
BTK inhibitors are continued indefinitely until disease progression or 
significant toxicity; therefore, the overall principles of careful assessment 
for side effects, diligent management for these, and individualized patient 
support provided by oncology nurses is vital in this patient population.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soncn.2021.151177
PMID: 34281733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. BMJ Health Care Inform. 2021 Jul;28(1):e100351. doi:
10.1136/bmjhci-2021-100351.

Telemammography for breast cancer screening: a cost-effective approach in 
Argentina.

Malek Pascha VA(1)(2), Sun L(3), Gilardino R(3)(2), Legood R(3).

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research and Policy, Faculty of Public Health and Policy, 
London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, UK 
victoria.malek-pascha1@alumni.lshtm.ac.uk.
(2)School of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, University of Buenos Aires, 
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)Health Services Research and Policy, Faculty of Public Health and Policy, 
London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, UK.

OBJECTIVES: Argentina is a low and middle-income country (LMIC) with a highly 
fragmented healthcare system that conflicts with access to healthcare stated by 
the country's Universal Health Coverage plan. A tele-mammography network could 
improve access to breast cancer screening decreasing its mortality. This 
research aims to conduct an economic evaluation of the implementation of a 
tele-mammography program to improve access to healthcare.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was performed to explore the incremental 
benefit of annual tele-mammography screening for at-risk Argentinian women over 
40 years old. A Markov model was developed to simulate annual mammography or 
tele-mammography screening in two hypothetical population-based cohorts of 
asymptomatic women. Parameter uncertainty was evaluated through deterministic 
and probabilistic sensitivity analysis. Model structure uncertainty was also 
explored to test the robustness of the results.
RESULTS: It was estimated that 31 out of 100 new cases of breast cancer would be 
detected by mammography and 39/100 by tele-mammography. The model returned an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £26 051/quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) which is lower than the WHO-recommended threshold of £26 
288/QALY for Argentina. Deterministic sensitivity analysis showed the ICER is 
most sensitive to the uptake and sensitivity of the screening tests. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed tele-mammography is cost-effective in 
59% of simulations.
DISCUSSION: Tele-mammography should be considered for adoption as it could 
improve access to expertise in underserved areas where adherence to screening 
protocols is poor. Disaggregated data by province is needed for a better- 
informed policy decision. Telemedicine could also be beneficial in ensuring the 
continuity of care when health systems are under stress like in the current 
COVID-19 pandemic.
CONCLUSION: There is a 59% chance that tele-mammography is cost-effective 
compared to mammography for at-risk Argentinian women over 40- years old, and 
should be adopted to improve access to healthcare in underserved areas of the 
country.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjhci-2021-100351
PMCID: PMC8290945
PMID: 34281995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


137. Otol Neurotol. 2021 Oct 1;42(9):e1369-e1375. doi:
10.1097/MAO.0000000000003266.

Lifetime Cost and Quality-Adjusted Life-Years Across Management Options for 
Small- and Medium-Sized Sporadic Vestibular Schwannoma.

Macielak RJ(1), Thao V(2)(3), Borah BJ(2)(3), Moriarty JP(3), Marinelli JP(1), 
Van Gompel JJ(1)(4), Carlson ML(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery.
(2)Division of Health Care Policy Research, Department of Health Sciences 
Research.
(3)Robert D. and Patricia E. Kern Center for the Science of Health Care 
Delivery.
(4)Department of Neurologic Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.

OBJECTIVE: Despite the growing emphasis on healthcare costs, limited data 
address this aspect of care within the vestibular schwannoma (VS) literature. We 
sought to determine which strategy confers the lowest lifetime cost and greatest 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for patients with small- to medium-sized 
sporadic VS tumors.
STUDY DESIGN: A Markov model was created to determine the most cost-effective 
management algorithm. Tumor characteristics, magnetic resonance imaging 
surveillance schedule, treatment outcomes, and health-related quality of life 
values were derived from previously published data. Cost estimates were based on 
CMS Fee Schedule reimbursement rates.
SETTING: Economic Evaluation Service within the Kern Center for the Science of 
Healthcare Delivery.
PATIENTS: Patients diagnosed with small- to medium-sized sporadic VS.
INTERVENTIONS: Upfront microsurgery following diagnosis, upfront radiosurgery 
following diagnosis, observation with microsurgery reserved for observed tumor 
growth, and observation with radiosurgery reserved for observed tumor growth.
RESULTS: Across patient ages at time of diagnosis ranging from 18 to 70 years, 
observation with subsequent radiosurgery used for tumor growth was the most 
cost-effective management algorithm while upfront microsurgery was the least. 
When presented with a hypothetical 50-year-old patient, the strategy with the 
lowest lifetime cost and highest QALYs was observation with subsequent 
radiosurgery reserved for tumor growth ($32,161, 14.11 QALY), followed by 
observation with microsurgery reserved for tumor growth ($34,503, 13.94 QALY), 
upfront radiosurgery ($43,456, 14.02 QALY), and lastly, upfront microsurgery 
($47,252, 13.60 QALY). Sensitivity analyses varying mortality rates, estimated 
costs, health-related quality of life, and progression to nonserviceable hearing 
demonstrated consistent ranking among treatments.
CONCLUSIONS: When considering initial management of small- and medium-sized 
sporadic VSs, neither lifetime cost nor QALYs support upfront microsurgery or 
radiosurgery, even for younger patients. Initial observation with serial 
imaging, reserving radiosurgery or microsurgery for patients exhibiting tumor 
growth, confers the greatest potential for optimized lifetime healthcare cost 
and QALY outcomes.

Copyright © 2021, Otology & Neurotology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MAO.0000000000003266
PMID: 34282100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors disclose no conflicts of interest.


138. medRxiv. 2021 Jul 14:2021.07.09.21260272. doi: 10.1101/2021.07.09.21260272. 
Preprint.

Optimising health and economic impacts of COVID-19 vaccine prioritisation 
strategies in the WHO European Region.

Liu Y(1)(2), Sandmann FG(1)(2)(3), Barnard RC(1)(2), Pearson CAB(1)(2); CMMID 
COVID-19 Working Group; Pastore R(4), Pebody R(4), Flasche S(1)(2), Jit M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Faculty of Epidemiology and 
Population Health, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, 
United Kingdom.
(2)Centre for Mathematical Modelling of Infectious Diseases, London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine London, United Kingdom.
(3)Statistics, Modelling and Economics Department, National Infection Service, 
Public Health England, London, United Kingdom.
(4)World Health Organization (WHO) Regional Office for Europe, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.

Update in
    Lancet Reg Health Eur. 2022 Jan;12:100267.

BACKGROUND: Countries in the World Health Organization (WHO) European Region 
differ in terms of the COVID-19 vaccine roll-out speed. We evaluated the health 
and economic impact of different age-based vaccine prioritisation strategies 
across this demographically and socio-economically diverse region.
METHODS: We fitted country-specific age-stratified compartmental transmission 
models to reported COVID-19 mortality in the WHO European Region to inform the 
immunity level before vaccine roll-out. Building upon broad recommendations from 
the WHO Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunisation (SAGE), we examined 
four strategies that prioritise: all adults (V+), younger (20-59 year-olds) 
followed by older adults (60+) (V20), older followed by younger adults (V60), 
and the oldest adults (75+) (V75) followed by incremental expansion to 
successively younger five-year age groups. We explored four roll-out scenarios 
based on projections or recent observations (R1-4) - the slowest scenario (R1) 
covers 30% of the total population by December 2022 and the fastest (R4) 80% by 
December 2021. Five decision-making metrics were summarised over 2021-22: 
mortality, morbidity, and losses in comorbidity-adjusted life expectancy (cLE), 
comorbidity- and quality-adjusted life years (cQALY), and the value of human 
capital (HC). Six sets of infection-blocking and disease-reducing vaccine 
efficacies were considered.
FINDINGS: The optimal age-based vaccine prioritisation strategies were sensitive 
to country characteristics, decision-making metrics and roll-out speeds. 
Overall, V60 consistently performed better than or comparably to V75. There were 
greater benefits in prioritising older adults when roll-out is slow and when VE 
is low. Under faster roll-out, V+ was the most desirable option.
INTERPRETATION: A prioritisation strategy involving more age-based stages (V75) 
does not necessarily lead to better health and economic outcomes than targeting 
broad age groups (V60). Countries expecting a slow vaccine roll-out may 
particularly benefit from prioritising older adults.
FUNDING: World Health Organization, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the 
Medical Research Council (United Kingdom), the National Institute of Health 
Research (United Kingdom), the European Commission, the Foreign, Commonwealth 
and Development Office (United Kingdom), Wellcome Trust.
RESEARCH IN CONTEXT: Evidence before this study: We searched PubMed and medRxiv 
for articles published in English from inception to 9 Jun 2021, with the search 
terms: ("COVID-19" OR "SARS-CoV-2") AND ("priorit*) AND ("model*") AND 
("vaccin*") and identified 66 studies on vaccine prioritization strategies. Of 
the 25 studies that compared two or more age-based prioritisation strategies, 12 
found that targeting younger adults minimised infections while targeting older 
adults minimised mortality; an additional handful of studies found similar 
outcomes between different age-based prioritisation strategies where large 
outbreaks had already occurred. However, only two studies have explored 
age-based vaccine prioritisation using models calibrated to observed outbreaks 
in more than one country, and no study has explored the effectiveness of vaccine 
prioritisation strategies across settings with different population structures, 
contact patterns, and outbreak history.Added-value of this study: We evaluated 
various age-based vaccine prioritisation strategies for 38 countries in the WHO 
European Region using various health and economic outcomes for decision-making, 
by parameterising models using observed outbreak history, known epidemiologic 
and vaccine characteristics, and a range of realistic vaccine roll-out 
scenarios. We showed that while targeting older adults was generally 
advantageous, broadly targeting everyone above 60 years might perform better 
than or comparably to a more detailed strategy that targeted the oldest age 
group above 75 years followed by those in the next younger five-year age band. 
Rapid vaccine roll-out has only been observed in a small number of countries. If 
vaccine coverage can reach 80% by the end of 2021, prioritising older adults may 
not be optimal in terms of health and economic impact. Lower vaccine efficacy 
was associated with greater relative benefits only under relatively slow 
roll-out scenarios considered.Implication of all the available evidence: 
COVID-19 vaccine prioritization strategies that require more precise targeting 
of individuals of a specific and narrow age range may not necessarily lead to 
better outcomes compared to strategies that prioritise populations across 
broader age ranges. In the WHO European Region, prioritising all adults equally 
or younger adults first will only optimise health and economic impact when 
roll-out is rapid, which may raise between-country equity issues given the 
global demand for COVID-19 vaccines.

DOI: 10.1101/2021.07.09.21260272
PMCID: PMC8288152
PMID: 34282421

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests YL and MJ reports 
grants from the National Institute of Health Research, outside the submitted 
work. The views expressed in this publication are those of the author(s) and not 
necessarily those of European Commission, National Institute of Health Research 
(NIHR) (UK), Public Health England (PHE) or the Department of Health and Social 
Care (UK).


139. Mol Divers. 2021 Aug;25(3):1517-1539. doi: 10.1007/s11030-021-10274-8. Epub
2021  Jul 19.

Recent trends in artificial intelligence-driven identification and development 
of anti-neurodegenerative therapeutic agents.

Kashyap K(1)(2), Siddiqi MI(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), CSIR-Central Drug 
Research Institute (CSIR-CDRI) Campus, Lucknow, India.
(2)Molecular and Structural Biology Division, CSIR-Central Drug Research 
Institute (CSIR-CDRI), Sector 10, Jankipuram Extension, Sitapur Road, Lucknow, 
226031, India.
(3)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), CSIR-Central Drug 
Research Institute (CSIR-CDRI) Campus, Lucknow, India. mi_siddiqi@cdri.res.in.
(4)Molecular and Structural Biology Division, CSIR-Central Drug Research 
Institute (CSIR-CDRI), Sector 10, Jankipuram Extension, Sitapur Road, Lucknow, 
226031, India. mi_siddiqi@cdri.res.in.

Neurological disorders affect various aspects of life. Finding drugs for the 
central nervous system is a very challenging and complex task due to the 
involvement of the blood-brain barrier, P-glycoprotein, and the drug's high 
attrition rates. The availability of big data present in online databases and 
resources has enabled the emergence of artificial intelligence techniques 
including machine learning to analyze, process the data, and predict the unknown 
data with high efficiency. The use of these modern techniques has revolutionized 
the whole drug development paradigm, with an unprecedented acceleration in the 
central nervous system drug discovery programs. Also, the new deep learning 
architectures proposed in many recent works have given a better understanding of 
how artificial intelligence can tackle big complex problems that arose due to 
central nervous system disorders. Therefore, the present review provides 
comprehensive and up-to-date information on machine learning/artificial 
intelligence-triggered effort in the brain care domain. In addition, a brief 
overview is presented on machine learning algorithms and their uses in 
structure-based drug design, ligand-based drug design, ADMET prediction, de novo 
drug design, and drug repurposing. Lastly, we conclude by discussing the major 
challenges and limitations posed and how they can be tackled in the future by 
using these modern machine learning/artificial intelligence approaches.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s11030-021-10274-8
PMID: 34282519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. J R Soc Med. 2021 Oct;114(10):463-466. doi: 10.1177/01410768211033895. Epub
2021  Jul 20.

Same storm, different boats: can the UK recapture improving life expectancy 
trends?

Hiam L(1), Patel P(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Geography and the Environment, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 
2JD, UK.
(2)Centre for Public Health Data Science, University College London, London, 
WC1E7HT, UK.

DOI: 10.1177/01410768211033895
PMCID: PMC8531871
PMID: 34282676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Plant Dis. 2021 Dec;105(12):3848-3857. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-01-21-0129-RE. Epub
 2021 Dec 3.

Developing a Real-Time PCR Assay for Direct Identification and Quantification of 
Soybean Cyst Nematode, Heterodera glycines, in Soil and Its Discrimination from 
Sugar Beet Cyst Nematode, Heterodera schachtii.

Baidoo R(1), Yan G(2).

Author information:
(1)Corteva Agriscience, Indianapolis, IN 46268.
(2)Department of Plant Pathology, North Dakota State University, Fargo, ND 
58108.

The soybean cyst nematode (SCN) Heterodera glycines continues to be a major 
threat to soybean production worldwide. Morphological discrimination between SCN 
and other nematodes of the Heterodera schachtii sensu stricto group is not only 
difficult and time-consuming but also requires high expertise in nematode 
taxonomy. Molecular assays were developed to differentiate SCN from sugar beet 
cyst nematode (SBCN) and other nematodes and to quantify SCN directly from DNA 
extracts of field soils. SCN- and SBCN-specific quantitative real-time PCR 
(qPCR) primers were designed from a nematode-secreted CLAVATA gene and used for 
these assays. The primers were evaluated on the basis of target specificity to 
SCN or SBCN using DNA from 20 isolates of SCN and 32 isolates of other 
plant-parasitic nematodes. A standard curve relating threshold cycle and log 
values of nematode numbers was generated from artificially infested soils and 
was used to quantify SCN in naturally infested field soils. There was a high 
correlation between the SCN numbers estimated from naturally infested field 
soils by conventional methods, and the numbers quantified using the SYBR Green 
I-based qPCR assay. The qPCR assay is highly specific and sensitive and provides 
improved SCN detection sensitivity down to 1 SCN egg in 20 g of soil (10 
eggs/200 g soil). This assay is useful for efficient detection and 
quantification of SCN directly from field soil. Species-specific conventional 
PCR assays were also developed each for SCN and SBCN, alongside a qPCR assay 
that simultaneously discriminates SCN from SBCN. These assays require no 
expertise in nematode taxonomy and morphology, and they may serve as useful 
diagnostic tools in research, diagnostic laboratories, and extension services 
for SCN management. Sensitive and accurate detection and quantification of SCN 
are essential for recommending effective management measures against SCN. We 
also investigated the impact of soil texture and nematode life stage on 
molecular quantification of SCN.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-01-21-0129-RE
PMID: 34282930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Int Arch Occup Environ Health. 2021 Nov;94(8):1917-1929. doi: 
10.1007/s00420-021-01742-7. Epub 2021 Jul 20.

Health damage to housewives by contaminants emitted from coal combustion in the 
Chinese countryside: focusing on day-to-day cooking.

Tong R(1), Cao L(1), Yang X(2), Zhang B(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Emergency Management and Safety Engineering, China University of 
Mining and Technology-Beijing, Beijing, 100083, China.
(2)School of Emergency Management and Safety Engineering, China University of 
Mining and Technology-Beijing, Beijing, 100083, China. yangxyi6@126.com.

PURPOSE: The study aimed to estimate the health damage and find out the main 
exposure pathways of housewives posed by polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) 
and heavy metals (HMs) from coal combustion in rural areas of China.
METHODS: We obtained the concentrations of 16 PAHs and 8 HMs from published 
literatures and the Monte Carlo simulation was used to process and analysis the 
data. Sensitivity analysis was also applied to clear parameter uncertainty and 
the health damage of housewives was quantitatively evaluated by loss of life 
expectancy.
RESULTS: Housewives' carcinogenic risks from PAHs exposure were in descending 
order of inhalation > ingestion > dermal contact, while exposed to HMs were 
ingestion > dermal contact > inhalation. The carcinogenic risks from PAHs 
primarily originated from benzo[a]pyrene (BaP), dibenz[ah]anthracene (DahA) and 
benzo[b]fluorathene (BbF). For HMs, arsenic posed the highest carcinogenic risk 
to housewives, with a contribution of 92.98%. In addition, the life expectancy 
loss of housewives exposed to PAHs was 469.04 min from inhalation and 51.82 min 
