
Cost-effectiveness analysis comparing intensity-modulated radiotherapy with 
conformational radiotherapy (3D-RT) for prostate cancer in the brazilian health 
system.

Viani GA(1), Arruda CV(2), Oliveira R(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Medicina de Ribeirão Preto da Universidade de São Paulo - 
Ribeirão Preto (SP), Brazil.
(2)Instituto de Biociência da Universidade do Estado de São Paulo - Botucatu 
(SP), Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: The intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) has been established as 
the standard external-beam radiation technique to treat prostate cancer in 
several countries. In Brazil, the public health system and the National Health 
Agency do not reimburse its utilization. This study compared the 
cost-effectiveness of IMRT and tridimensional radiotherapy (3D-RT) from a 
payer's perspective.
METHODS: We built a Markov model to delineate the health states after treatment 
with IMRT and 3D-RT. The treatment-related toxicity data were extracted from the 
literature. The sensitivity analyses were performed over potential parameters.
RESULTS: The incremental cost of IMRT was R$ 5,553.78. At a time horizon of 5 
years, the quality-adjusted life expectancy after IMRT was higher than 3D-RT. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of IMRT over 3D-RT was 
R$-296,74/quality-adjusted life year (QALY). Therefore, IMRT was the dominant 
strategy, which depended on the value of interventional procedures for severe 
toxicity and the difference between IMRT and 3D-RT reimbursement. The IMRT was 
still most likely to be cost-effective at a willingness-to-pay R$ 100,000/QALY, 
with a net monetary benefit (NMB) superior to 3D-RT after R$ 50,000.00, 
resulting in a difference of R$220.000,00 after 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: IMRT generated more values than 3D-RT for external-beam treatment. 
Given its potential to reduce late toxicity with hypofractionation, these data 
reinforce its incorporation to treat prostate cancer in the Brazilian health 
system from a payer's perspective.

DOI: 10.1590/1806-9282.20210078
PMID: 34550263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. JAMA Surg. 2021 Dec 1;156(12):1131-1139. doi: 10.1001/jamasurg.2021.4529.

Evaluating the Cost-effectiveness of Prehospital Plasma Transfusion in Unstable 
Trauma Patients: A Secondary Analysis of the PAMPer Trial.

Hrebinko KA(1), Sperry JL(2), Guyette FX(3), Brown JB(2), Daley BJ(4), Miller 
RS(5), Harbrecht BG(6), Claridge JA(7), Phelan HA(8), Neal MD(2), Zuckerbraun 
BS(2), Yazer MH(9), Nicholson KJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(2)Division of Trauma & Acute Care Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of 
Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania.
(4)Division of Trauma & Critical Care Surgery, Department of Surgery, University 
of Tennessee Graduate School of Medicine, Knoxville.
(5)Department of Surgery, JPS Health Network, Ft Worth, Texas.
(6)Division of Trauma Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Louisville, 
Louisville, Kentucky.
(7)Division of Trauma & Critical Care, Metrohealth Medical Center, Case Western 
Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio.
(8)Division of Burn Surgery, Department of Surgery, Louisiana State University 
Health Sciences Center, New Orleans.
(9)Department of Pathology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Comment in
    JAMA Surg. 2021 Dec 1;156(12):1139-1140.
    JAMA Surg. 2022 May 1;157(5):460.

IMPORTANCE: Prehospital plasma transfusion is lifesaving for trauma patients in 
hemorrhagic shock but is not commonly used owing to cost and feasibility 
concerns.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of prehospital thawed plasma 
transfusion in trauma patients with hemorrhagic shock during air medical 
transport.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A decision tree and Markov model were created 
to compare standard care and prehospital thawed plasma transfusion using 
published and unpublished patient-level data from the Prehospital Plasma in Air 
Medical Transport in Trauma Patients at Risk for Hemorrhagic Shock (PAMPer) 
trial conducted from May 2014 to October 2017, health care and trauma-specific 
databases, and the published literature. Prehospital transfusion, short-term 
inpatient care, and lifetime health care costs and quality of life outcomes were 
included. One-way, 2-way, and Monte Carlo probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
were performed across clinically plausible ranges. Data were analyzed in 
December 2019.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Relative costs and health-related quality of life 
were evaluated by an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio at a standard 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $100 000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY).
RESULTS: The trial included 501 patients in the modified intention-to-treat 
cohort. Median (interquartile range) age for patients in the thawed plasma and 
standard care cohorts were 44 (31-59) and 46 (28-60) years, respectively. 
Overall, 364 patients (72.7%) were male. Thawed plasma transfusion was 
cost-effective with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $50 467.44 per 
QALY compared with standard care. The preference for thawed plasma was robust 
across all 1- and 2-way sensitivity analyses. When considering only patients 
injured by a blunt mechanism, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio decreased 
to $37 735.19 per QALY. Thawed plasma was preferred in 8140 of 10 000 iterations 
(81.4%) on probabilistic sensitivity analysis. A detailed analysis of 
incremental costs between strategies revealed most were attributable to the 
in-hospital and postdischarge lifetime care of critically ill patients surviving 
severe trauma.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this study, prehospital thawed plasma transfusion 
during air medical transport for trauma patients in hemorrhagic shock was 
lifesaving and cost-effective compared with standard care and should become 
commonplace.

DOI: 10.1001/jamasurg.2021.4529
PMCID: PMC8459310
PMID: 34550318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Drs Sperry, 
Guyette, Claridge, and Phelan report grants from the Department of Defense 
during the conduct of the study. Dr Harbrecht reports grants from the Department 
of Defense during the conduct of the study and grants from the Department of 
Defense and personal fees from the American College of Surgeons Committee on 
Trauma Verification, Review, and Consultation Program and the University of 
Pittsburgh Data and Safety Monitoring Board outside the submitted work. Dr Neal 
reports nonfinancial support from Haima Therapeutics, personal fees from Janssen 
Pharma and Haemonetics, and grants from Instrumentation Laboratory outside the 
submitted work. Dr Yazer reports personal fees from Terumo Corporation during 
the conduct of the study and from Verax Biomedical, Grifols, Octapharma, Cook 
Medical Incorporated, Macopharma, and Cerus Corporation outside the submitted 
work. Dr Nicholson reports grants from the National Institutes of Health during 
the conduct of the study. No other disclosures were reported.


965. J Cross Cult Gerontol. 2021 Dec;36(4):387-406. doi:
10.1007/s10823-021-09440-0.  Epub 2021 Sep 22.

Leisure Time Satisfaction and Activity Preferences Among Ethnically Diverse 
Aging Parents in Metro Vancouver.

Mitchell BA(1), Wister AV(2), Fyffe IA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and Anthropology & Department of Gerontology, Simon 
Fraser University, 8888 University Ave., Burnaby, BC, V5A 1S6, Canada. 
mitchelo@sfu.ca.
(2)Department of Gerontology, Simon Fraser University, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

It is well established that family and work-retirement transitions are 
increasingly becoming more complicated, extended, and reversible among aging 
parents. Combined with improved life expectancy, older parents are now 
confronted with new opportunities and challenges including their access to 
leisure activities. However, a paucity of research exists with regard to the 
extent to which older-aged parents are satisfied with their amount of leisure 
time as well as their ideal leisure preferences. Drawing upon socio-cultural 
life course theory, this paper examines how socio-demographic and ethnocultural 
variables (i.e., gender, ethnic identity), family-related factors (e.g., 
presence of children in the household), and socio-economic and work contexts 
(i.e., income satisfaction and retirement status) shape leisure time 
satisfaction and activity preferences. Data are drawn from the "Families and 
Retirement Project," a sample of 588 diverse (British-, Chinese-, 
Iranian/Persian-, South-Asian Canadians) aged 50 + (mean age = 59.6) residing in 
Metro Vancouver with at least one young adult child aged 19-35. Quantitative 
analyses reveal that leisure time satisfaction is higher among: those reporting 
lower levels of parental stress, the fully retired, those with less education, 
and among Chinese parents (compared to British). Moreover, strong variations by 
ethnic background are shown in preferred leisure activity, based on a thematic 
analysis of data. Results are discussed in terms of contributions to a 
socio-cultural family life course activity theory. Implications for community 
service provision (e.g., culturally sensitive and relevant recreational programs 
and services) are also highlighted, given the salience of participation in 
enjoyable leisure activities to healthy aging.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10823-021-09440-0
PMID: 34550533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. PLoS One. 2021 Sep 22;16(9):e0257006. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0257006. 
eCollection 2021.

Implementation of artificial intelligence algorithms for melanoma screening in a 
primary care setting.

Giavina-Bianchi M(1), de Sousa RM(1), Paciello VZA(1), Vitor WG(1), Okita AL(1), 
Prôa R(1), Severino GLDS(1), Schinaid AA(1), Espírito Santo R(1), Machado BS(1).

Author information:
(1)Image Research Center, Hospital Israelita Albert Einstein, São Paulo, SP, 
Brazil.

Skin cancer is currently the most common type of cancer among Caucasians. The 
increase in life expectancy, along with new diagnostic tools and treatments for 
skin cancer, has resulted in unprecedented changes in patient care and has 
generated a great burden on healthcare systems. Early detection of skin tumors 
is expected to reduce this burden. Artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms that 
support skin cancer diagnoses have been shown to perform at least as well as 
dermatologists' diagnoses. Recognizing the need for clinically and economically 
efficient means of diagnosing skin cancers at early stages in the primary care 
attention, we developed an efficient computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) system to be 
used by primary care physicians (PCP). Additionally, we developed a smartphone 
application with a protocol for data acquisition (i.e., photographs, demographic 
data and short clinical histories) and AI algorithms for clinical and 
dermoscopic image classification. For each lesion analyzed, a report is 
generated, showing the image of the suspected lesion and its respective Heat 
Map; the predicted probability of the suspected lesion being melanoma or 
malignant; the probable diagnosis based on that probability; and a suggestion on 
how the lesion should be managed. The accuracy of the dermoscopy model for 
melanoma was 89.3%, and for the clinical model, 84.7% with 0.91 and 0.89 
sensitivity and 0.89 and 0.83 specificity, respectively. Both models achieved an 
area under the curve (AUC) above 0.9. Our CAD system can screen skin cancers to 
guide lesion management by PCPs, especially in the contexts where the access to 
the dermatologist can be difficult or time consuming. Its use can enable risk 
stratification of lesions and/or patients and dramatically improve timely access 
to specialist care for those requiring urgent attention.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0257006
PMCID: PMC8457457
PMID: 34550970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist


967. PLoS One. 2021 Sep 22;16(9):e0257617. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0257617. 
eCollection 2021.

Burden of Hypertensive Heart Disease in Iran during 1990-2017: Findings from the 
Global Burden of Disease study 2017.

Omidi N(1), Arabloo J(2), Rezapour A(2), Alaeddini F(1), Bragazzi NL(3), 
Pourasghari H(4), Behzadifar M(5), Salarifar M(1), Khorgami M(6), Ghorashi 
SM(1), Azari S(4).

Author information:
(1)Tehran Heart Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Health Management and Economics Research Center, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Laboratory for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (LIAM), Department of 
mathematics and statistics, York University, Toronto, Canada.
(4)Hospital Management Research Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(5)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Lorestan University of Medical 
Sciences, Khorramabad, Iran.
(6)Rajaie Cardiovascular Medical and Research Center, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Hypertension and its consequent end-organ damage including 
Hypertensive Heart Disease (HHD) are a major concern that impact health, 
resulting into impairment and reduced quality of life (QOL). The purpose of this 
study was to describe the burden of HHD in Iran and comparing it with the World 
Bank upper middle-income countries (UMICs) in terms of disability-adjusted life 
years (DALY), mortality and prevalence.
METHODS: Using data from the Global Burden of Disease study 2017, we compared 
the number of DALYs, deaths and prevalence trends for HHD from 1990 to 2017 in 
all age groups for both sex in Iran, and compared the epidemiology and trends 
with UMICs and globally.
RESULTS: The age-standardized DALY rate for HHD increased by 51.6% for men (95% 
uncertainty interval [UI] 305.8 to 436.7 per 100,000) and 4.4% for women (95% UI 
429.4 to 448.7 per 100,000) in Iran. The age-standardized prevalence of HHD in 
Iran was almost twice times higher than globally and 1.5-times more than the 
World Bank UMICs. The age-standardized death rate for HDD increased by 60.1% 
(95% UI 17.3 to 27.7% per 100,000) for men and by 21.7% (95% UI 25.85 to 31.48 
per 100,000) for women from 1990 to 2017. Age-standardized death rate in Iran 
was 2.4 and 1.9 times higher than globally and UMICs, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The higher prevalence and death rate in Iran in comparison with 
UMICs and globally should encourage health care provider to perform intensive 
screening activities in at risk population to prevent HHD and mitigate its 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0257617
PMCID: PMC8457465
PMID: 34551003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


968. Chem Biol Drug Des. 2022 Dec;100(6):870-920. doi: 10.1111/cbdd.13953. Epub
2021  Oct 7.

Synthesis and antiviral activity of diverse heterocyclic scaffolds.

Sharma S(1), Utreja D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, College of Basic Sciences and Humanities, Punjab 
Agricultural University, Ludhiana, India.

Heterocyclic moieties form a major part of organic chemistry as they are widely 
distributed in nature and have wide scale practical applications ranging from 
extensive clinical use to diverse fields such as medicine, agriculture, 
photochemistry, biocidal formulations, and polymer science. By virtue of their 
therapeutic properties, they could be employed in combating many infectious 
diseases. Among the common infectious diseases, viral infections are of great 
public health importance worldwide. Thus, there is an urgent need for the 
discovery and development of antiviral drugs and clinical methods to prevent 
various viral infections so as to increase the life expectancy. This review 
presents the comprehensive overview of the synthesis and antiviral activity of 
different heterocyclic compounds 2015 onwards, which aids in present knowledge 
and helps the researchers and other stakeholders to explore their field.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cbdd.13953
PMID: 34551197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2021 Sep 6;12:706978. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2021.706978. eCollection 2021.

Obesity: Epidemiology, Pathophysiology, and Therapeutics.

Lin X(1), Li H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.

Obesity is a complex multifactorial disease that accumulated excess body fat 
leads to negative effects on health. Obesity continues to accelerate resulting 
in an unprecedented epidemic that shows no significant signs of slowing down any 
time soon. Raised body mass index (BMI) is a risk factor for noncommunicable 
diseases such as diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, and musculoskeletal 
disorders, resulting in dramatic decrease of life quality and expectancy. The 
main cause of obesity is long-term energy imbalance between consumed calories 
and expended calories. Here, we explore the biological mechanisms of obesity 
with the aim of providing actionable treatment strategies to achieve a healthy 
body weight from nature to nurture. This review summarizes the global trends in 
obesity with a special focus on the pathogenesis of obesity from genetic factors 
to epigenetic factors, from social environmental factors to microenvironment 
factors. Against this background, we discuss several possible intervention 
strategies to minimize BMI.

Copyright © 2021 Lin and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2021.706978
PMCID: PMC8450866
PMID: 34552557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


970. Front Immunol. 2021 Sep 6;12:693881. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.693881.
eCollection  2021.

PD-L1-Mediated Immunosuppression in Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma: Relationship 
With Macrophage Infiltration and Epithelial to Mesenchymal Transition Markers.

Wu T(1)(2)(3)(4), Tang C(1)(2)(3)(4), Tao R(1)(2)(3)(4), Yong X(1)(2)(3), Jiang 
Q(1)(2)(3)(4), Feng C(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontics and Oral Medicine, College of Stomatology, Guangxi 
Medical University, Nanning, China.
(2)Guangxi Health Commission Key Laboratory of Prevention and Treatment for Oral 
Infectious Diseases, Nanning, China.
(3)Guangxi Key Laboratory of Oral and Maxillofacial Rehabilitation and 
Reconstruction, Guangxi Universities and Colleges Key Laboratory of Oral and 
Maxillofacial Surgery Disease Treatment, Guangxi Clinical Research Center for 
Craniofacial Deformity, Nanning, China.
(4)Guangxi Key Laboratory of AIDS Prevention and Treatment, Guangxi Medical 
University, Nanning, China.

To date, immune check-point inhibitors (ICIs), particularly inhibitors of 
programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) and PD ligand-1 (PD-L1) have become prominent in 
cancer treatment and also improved life expectancy of cancer patients. As key 
regulators of PD-1/PD-L1 axis, the recruitment of tumor-associated macrophages 
(TAMs) enhances aggressive and invasive properties of tumors in 
immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) and promotes 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). The aims of the study were first to 
characterize the critical links among PD-L1, TME and EMT process and, further, 
to explore the sensitivity of different chemical agents to different PD-L1 
expression groups. Bioinformatical analysis revealed that PD-L1 was highly 
expressed in OSCC and higher PD-L1 expression correlated with worse survival in 
patients. Notably, PD-L1 was positively correlated with macrophages infiltration 
and EMT markers gene expression. Moreover, patients in the PD-L1high group were 
at a significant chance of benefiting from ICI treatment and they also showed 
higher sensitivity to the chemical drugs (olaparib, paclitaxel, docetaxel, and 
pazopanib). These findings implicate PD-L1 could serve as a novel target for 
prognostic and therapeutic approaches in OSCC patients; PD-L1-mediated immune 
evasion might be attributable to the infiltration of macrophages, resulting EMT 
progress; Chemical agents in combination with PD-L1 inhibitor could be served as 
personalized treatment plan for OSCC patients so as to maximize patient benefit.

Copyright © 2021 Wu, Tang, Tao, Yong, Jiang and Feng.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.693881
PMCID: PMC8450501
PMID: 34552581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


971. Stat Med. 2021 Dec 20;40(29):6707-6722. doi: 10.1002/sim.9207. Epub 2021 Sep
22.

Partially linear single-index generalized mean residual life models.

Jin P(1), Liu M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biostatistics, Department of Population Health, New York 
University Grossman School of Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(2)Department of Environmental Medicine, New York University Grossman School of 
Medicine, New York, New York, USA.

Mean residual life (MRL) function defines the remaining life expectancy of a 
subject who has survived to a time point and is an important alternative to the 
hazard function for characterizing the distribution of a time-to-event variable. 
Existing MRL models primarily focus on studying the association between risk 
factors and disease risks using linear model specifications in multiplicative or 
additive scale. When risk factors have complex correlation structures, nonlinear 
effects, or interactions, the prefixed linearity assumption may be insufficient 
to capture the relationship. Single-index modeling framework offers flexibility 
in reducing dimensionality and modeling nonlinear effects. In this article, we 
propose a class of partially linear single-index generalized MRL models, the 
regression component of which consists of both a semiparametric single-index 
part and a linear regression part. Regression spline technique is employed to 
approximate the nonparametric single-index function, and parameters are 
estimated using an iterative algorithm. Double-robust estimators are also 
proposed to protect against the misspecification of censoring distribution or 
MRL models. A further contribution of this article is a nonparametric test 
proposed to formally evaluate the linearity of the single-index function. 
Asymptotic properties of the estimators are established, and the finite-sample 
performance is evaluated through extensive numerical simulations. The proposed 
models and inference approaches are demonstrated by a New York University 
Langone Health (NYULH) COVID-19 dataset.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.9207
PMCID: PMC8595843
PMID: 34553405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Rev Prat. 2021 Jun;71(6):688-693.

["Declining life expectancy in the United States and the United Kingdom"].

[Article in French]

Zeitoun JD(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de gastro-entérologie et hépatologie, hôpital Saint-Antoine, Paris, 
France.

PMID: 34553571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.-D. Zeitoun déclare conseiller ou intervenir 
auprès des laboratoires pharmaceutiques suivants (au cours des trois dernières 
années) : Pierre Fabre, AbbVie, AstraZeneca, Biogen, Takeda, Johnson et Johnson, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Novartis. Il intervient aussi pour certains cabinets de 
conseil ou fonds d’investissement. Il est investisseur à titre personnel dans 
plusieurs startups médicales ou liées à l’éducation ou l’environnement.


973. Sante Publique. 2021 March-April;33(2):191-198. doi: 10.3917/spub.212.0191.

Recherche sur la fin de vie, la nécessité d’un consensus : premiers résultats.

[Article in French]

Bernard C, Hamidou Z, Billa O, Dany L, Amouroux-Gorsse V, Dubois L, Gallois M, 
de Larivière E, Lamie S, Peyrat-Apicella D, Vezy P, Aubry R, Guillemin F, 
Dabakuyo-Yonli S, Auquier P.

During the past 15 years, in France, like in many European countries, the 
attention paid to patients at the end of their lives has continued to grow. But 
in the meantime, only a few researchers have managed to collect reliable data on 
End-of-Life Care and to implement scientific studies describing the reality of 
these situations. This difficulty is due in particular to the lack of a 
recognized and operational definition of the end of life.Our objective is to 
explore the possibility of achieving consensus around a definition based on the 
isolated elements in the literature.A Delphi consensus approach has been 
conducted. A &#8220;Delphi&#8221; approach allows consensus to be achieved 
without the influence of leadership effects.The population of this study is the 
group of care providers who are members of the Soci&#233;t&#233; Fran&#231;aise 
d&#8217;Accompagnement et de Soins Palliatifs (SFAP), whether they are 
professionals or volunteers. An electronic survey asked for the degree of 
approval of individuals for each of the proposed definitions on a Lickert scale. 
The first round of Delphi was proposed at the end of 2019 among palliative care 
actors. 1463 people responded to this questionnaire in one month. Two types of 
definition seem to dominate the other proposals. The first is related to an 
estimate of life expectancy: life expectancy of less than 15 days and less than 
one month. The second emerging definition is related to the evolution of a 
pathology: based on the fact of being in advanced or terminal phase of an 
incurable pathology.These results confirm that the end-of-life period can be 
seen from two points of view, the first in relation to the time left to live and 
the other in relation of the terminal phase of the disease which calls for a 
less clearly defined time.These two definitions are based on different 
approaches, one temporal and the other disease-centered. An alternative 
definition emerges from this study and will be tested in the second round of 
Delphi.

DOI: 10.3917/spub.212.0191
PMID: 34553864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2021 Nov 2;17(11):4028-4037. doi: 
10.1080/21645515.2021.1968215. Epub 2021 Sep 23.

COVID-19 vaccine-taking hesitancy among Bangladeshi people: knowledge, 
perceptions and attitude perspective.

Hossain E(1), Rana J(2), Islam S(3), Khan A(1), Chakrobortty S(3), Ema NS(3), 
Bekun FV(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Finance and Banking, Bangladesh Agricultural 
University, Mymensingh, Bangladesh.
(2)Department of Agricultural Economics, Khulna Agricultural University, Khulna, 
Bangladesh.
(3)Faculty of Agricultural Economics & Rural Sociology, Bangladesh Agricultural 
University, Mymensingh, Bangladesh.
(4)Faculty of Economics Administrative and Social Sciences, Istanbul Gelisim 
University, Istanbul, Turkey.

Several novel efforts have been put forth to make a readily available vaccine 
against the global pandemic of COVID-19. However, there seems to appear 
vaccine-taking hesitancy among the general people. Against this backdrop, this 
current study sets to assess the vaccine-taking intention, ways to overcome the 
vaccine-taking reluctance among Bangladeshi people and explore their knowledge, 
perceptions, and attitude toward the COVID-19 vaccine. To this end, this study 
leveraged on a cross-sectional survey, which was consisted of 1377 respondents 
covering the eight divisions of Bangladesh. The descriptive statistical method 
and ordinal logistics regression were employed to explore and rationalize our 
study outlined objectives. Empirical findings revealed that approximately 71% of 
the respondents had adequate knowledge about the COVID-19 vaccine, whereas 46% 
of the respondents were willing to be vaccinated against COVID-19 while the rest 
of the respondents were hesitant to take the vaccine. However, concern about the 
potential side effects was one of the core reasons for vaccine-taking hesitancy. 
Assuring the common people about vaccine safety and efficacy, along with easing 
the registration procedure, can ameliorate people's confidence to get 
vaccinated. Meanwhile, about 60% of the respondents believed that a vaccine 
could help Bangladesh win the battle against COVID-19 and will allow back to 
normal life. Although the government has taken some pragmatic action steps to 
promote the vaccination rate, it is recommended that the mass vaccination 
program should be extended to the grassroots level with proper extension 
community support and easing the registration process.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2021.1968215
PMCID: PMC8828157
PMID: 34554050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. J Trauma Acute Care Surg. 2022 May 1;92(5):862-872. doi: 
10.1097/TA.0000000000003398. Epub 2021 Sep 20.

Demographic changes in pelvic fracture patterns at a Swiss academic trauma 
center from 2007 to 2017.

Villiger K(1), Meier MK, Hasler RM, Bastian JD, Tannast M, Exadaktylos AK, 
Steppacher SD.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Therapy (K.V.), Inselspital, 
Bern University Hospital, University of Bern, Bern; Department of Orthopaedic 
Surgery and Traumatology (M.K.M., J.D.B., S.D.S.), Inselspital, Bern University 
Hospital, University of Bern, Bern; Department of Traumatology (R.M.H.), Zürich 
University Hospital, Zürich; Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Traumatology 
(M.T.), Fribourg Cantonal Hospital, University of Fribourg, Fribourg; and 
Department of Emergency Medicine (A.K.E.), Inselspital, Bern University 
Hospital, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Increasing life expectancy has led to higher incidence of fragility 
fractures of the pelvis. These demographic changes may have a direct impact on 
fracture patterns. The goal of this study was (1) to evaluate demographical 
trends in patients with pelvic ring injuries at a tertiary Swiss trauma center 
and (2) to analyze the influence on fracture patterns.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective cross-sectional study including 958 
patients (mean ± SD age, 57 ± 21 years; 48% women) with a pelvic ring injury 
between 2007 and 2017. Fractures were classified according to Tile, Young and 
Burgess or Rommens and Hofmann (fragility fractures) using conventional and 
computer tomography imaging. Low-energy fractures were defined as fractures 
resulting from fall from standing height or less. Fracture classifications, age, 
sex, Injury Severity Score, and trauma mechanism were compared using analysis of 
variance or χ2 test. Cluster analysis was performed to identify groups with 
similarities in fracture patterns and demographic parameters.
RESULTS: From 2007 to 2017, the frequency of pelvic ring injuries increased by 
115% (increase per decade), and mean age increased by 15% (p = 0.031). A 
trimodal age distribution was found; highest increase for fractures occurred in 
the older (265%) patient group. Low-energy fracture was the most common trauma 
mechanism (43% of all fractures, an increase of 249%). Changes in fracture 
pattern showed a disproportioned increase of lateral compression (LC) fractures 
(LC type 1 in 64%) or partially stable fracture (B2, with 39%). In patient older 
than 65 years, the strongest increase was found for nondisplaced posterior 
fractures with an overall prevalence of 62%. Five clusters were found with the 
most frequent cluster representing older female patients with low-energy 
fracture (LC, Tile type B) in 30%.
CONCLUSION: The current results corroborate the trend of increasing frequency of 
fragility fractures in an aging society. The demographic shift has a direct 
impact on fracture pattern with a disproportionate increase in partially stable 
compression fracture of the pelvis.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Prognostic/Epidemiologic, Level III.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on 
behalf of the American Association for the Surgery of Trauma.

DOI: 10.1097/TA.0000000000003398
PMCID: PMC9038250
PMID: 34554141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Biol Futur. 2020 Sep;71(3):183-194. doi: 10.1007/s42977-020-00027-3. Epub
2020  Jun 25.

Biologia futura: the role of polyamine in plant science.

Kamiab F(1), Tavassolian I(2)(3), Hosseinifarahi M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Horticulture, Faculty of Agriculture, Rafsanjan Branch, Islamic 
Azad University, Rafsanjan, Iran. f.kamiab56@gmail.com.
(2)Research and Technology Institute of Plant Production, Shahid Bahonar 
University of Kerman, Kerman, Iran.
(3)Department of Horticulture, Faculty of Agriculture, Shahid Bahonar University 
of Kerman, Kerman, Iran.
(4)Department of Horticultural Science, Yasooj Branch, Islamic Azad University, 
Yasooj, Iran.

Polyamines (PAs) are positively charged amines such as putrescine, spermidine 
and spermine that ubiquitously exist in all organisms. They have been considered 
as a new type of plant biostimulants, with pivotal roles in many physiological 
processes. Polyamine levels are controlled by intricate regulatory feedback 
mechanisms. PAs are directly or indirectly regulated through interaction with 
signaling metabolites (H202, NO), aminobutyric acid (GABA), phytohormones 
(abscisic acid, gibberellins, ethylene, cytokinins, auxin, jasmonic acid and 
brassinosteroids) and nitrogen metabolism (maintaining the balance of C:N in 
plants). Exogenous applications of PAs enhance the stress resistance, flowering 
and fruit set, synthesis of bioactive compounds and extension of agricultural 
crops shelf life. Up-regulation of PAs biosynthesis by genetic manipulation can 
be a novel strategy to increase the productivity of agricultural crops. 
Recently, the role of PAs in symbiosis relationships between plants and 
beneficial microorganisms has been confirmed. PA metabolism has also been 
targeted to design new harmless fungicides.

© 2020. Akadémiai Kiadó Zrt.

DOI: 10.1007/s42977-020-00027-3
PMID: 34554509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Ageing Res Rev. 2021 Dec;72:101465. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2021.101465. Epub
2021  Sep 20.

Principles of brain aging: Status and challenges of modeling human molecular 
changes in mice.

Kluever V(1), Fornasiero EF(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuro, and Sensory Physiology, University Medical Center 
Göttingen, 37073 Göttingen, Germany and Center for Biostructural Imaging of 
Neurodegeneration (BIN), 37075 Göttingen, Germany. Electronic address: 
verena.kluever@med.uni-goettingen.de.
(2)Department of Neuro, and Sensory Physiology, University Medical Center 
Göttingen, 37073 Göttingen, Germany and Center for Biostructural Imaging of 
Neurodegeneration (BIN), 37075 Göttingen, Germany. Electronic address: 
efornas@gwdg.de.

Due to the extension of human life expectancy, the prevalence of cognitive 
impairment is rising in the older portion of society. Developing new strategies 
to delay or attenuate cognitive decline is vital. For this purpose, it is 
imperative to understand the cellular and molecular events at the basis of brain 
aging. While several organs are directly accessible to molecular analysis 
through biopsies, the brain constitutes a notable exception. Most of the 
molecular studies are performed on postmortem tissues, where cell death and 
tissue damage have already occurred. Hence, the study of the molecular aspects 
of cognitive decline largely relies on animal models and in particular on small 
mammals such as mice. What have we learned from these models? Do these animals 
recapitulate the changes observed in humans? What should we expect from future 
mouse studies? In this review we answer these questions by summarizing the state 
of the research that has addressed cognitive decline in mice from several 
perspectives, including genetic manipulation and omics strategies. We conclude 
that, while extremely valuable, mouse models have limitations that can be 
addressed by the optimal design of future studies and by ensuring that results 
are cross-validated in the human context.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2021.101465
PMID: 34555542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2021 Sep 23;19(1):222. doi: 
10.1186/s12955-021-01858-x.

Valuing child and adolescent health: a qualitative study on different 
perspectives and priorities taken by the adult general public.

Powell PA(1), Rowen D(2), Rivero-Arias O(3), Tsuchiya A(2)(4), Brazier JE(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 
30 Regent Street, Sheffield, S1 4DA, UK. p.a.powell@sheffield.ac.uk.
(2)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 
30 Regent Street, Sheffield, S1 4DA, UK.
(3)National Perinatal Epidemiology Unit (NPEU), Nuffield Department of 
Population Health, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(4)Department of Economics, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.

BACKGROUND: Quantitative health preference research has shown that different 
"perspectives", defined here as who is imagined to be experiencing particular 
health states, impact stated preferences. This qualitative project aimed to 
elucidate this phenomenon, within the context of adults' valuation of child and 
adolescent health states.
METHODS: Six focus groups with 30 members of the UK adult public were conducted 
between December 2019 and February 2020 and analysed using framework analysis. 
Each focus group had two stages. First, participants individually completed time 
trade-off tasks and a pairwise task (mirroring a discrete choice experiment 
without duration) for two EQ-5D-Y health states, assuming a series of 
perspectives: (a) themselves at current age; (b) another adult; (c) 10-year old 
child; (d) themselves as a 10-year old child. Second, a semi-structured 
discussion explored their responses.
RESULTS: Participants' views were often heterogeneous, with some common themes. 
Qualitatively, participants expressed a different willingness to trade-off life 
years for a 10-year old child versus themselves or another adult, and this 
differed by the health profile and child imagined. The same health states were 
often viewed as having a different impact on utility for a 10-year old child 
than adults. Imagining a 10-year old child is difficult and there is variation 
in who is imagined. Participants found answering based on their own-adult 
perspective most acceptable. There were no strong preferences for prioritising 
child health over working-age adults' health.
CONCLUSIONS: If an adult sample is used to value child- and adolescent-specific 
health states it is important to consider the perspective employed. Members of 
the adult public provide different responses when different perspectives are 
used due to differences in the perceived impact of the same health states. If 
adults are asked to imagine a child, we recommend that sampling is 
representative for parental status, since this can affect preferences.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12955-021-01858-x
PMCID: PMC8461831
PMID: 34556133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: OR-A, AT, and JB declare that they are EuroQol 
Group members. DR and PP declare that they have no competing interests.


979. Thorax. 2022 Jun;77(6):596-605. doi: 10.1136/thoraxjnl-2020-216732. Epub
2021  Sep 23.

Global and regional burden of interstitial lung disease and pulmonary 
sarcoidosis from 1990 to 2019: results from the Global Burden of Disease study 
2019.

Ma X(#)(1)(2)(3), Zhu L(#)(1)(2), Kurche JS(4), Xiao H(2)(5), Dai H(6)(2), Wang 
C(6)(2)(5)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Center of Respiratory 
Medicine, China-Japan Friendship Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, 
China.
(2)National Center for Respiratory Medicine; Institute of Respiratory Medicine, 
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences; National Clinical Research Center for 
Respiratory Diseases, China-Japan Friendship Hospital, Beijing, Beijing, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, National Clinical Research 
Center for Respiratory Disease, Guangzhou Institute of Respiratory Health, 
National Centre for Respiratory Medicine, the First Affiliated Hospital of 
Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
(4)Division of Pulmonary Sciences and Critical Care Medicine, Department of 
Medicine, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, Colorado, USA.
(5)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, China-Japan Friendship 
School of Clinical Medicine, Peking University, Beijing, Beijing, China.
(6)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Center of Respiratory 
Medicine, China-Japan Friendship Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, 
China wangchen@pumc.edu.cn daihuaping@ccmu.edu.cn.
(7)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and 
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Interstitial lung disease (ILD) and pulmonary sarcoidosis are common 
respiratory diseases with a heterogeneous distribution worldwide. The global 
burden and temporal trends of ILD and sarcoidosis are rarely explored.
METHODS: Using the classification 'ILD and pulmonary sarcoidosis' from the 
Global Burden of Disease 2019 dataset, we described the age-standardised rates 
of incidence, mortality, disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs), and their 
average annual percentage change from 1990 to 2019 by sex, Sociodemographic 
Index (SDI) and region.
RESULTS: In 2019, the global incidence and mortality of ILD and pulmonary 
sarcoidosis were 24.2 million and 169 833 cases, respectively. From 1990 to 
2019, the global incidence, deaths and DALYs due to ILD and pulmonary 
sarcoidosis increased by 118.6%, 166.63% and 122.87% respectively. The global 
incidence of ILD and pulmonary sarcoidosis was higher in men and was mainly 
concentrated among persons aged 70‒79 of both sexes. Significant regional 
differences could be seen in the disease burden of ILD and pulmonary 
sarcoidosis: since 2006, high-SDI regions had higher age-standardised incidence 
rates but lower age-standardised death rates compared with the low-SDI regions.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests the incidence, mortality and DALYs from ILD and 
pulmonary sarcoidosis are increasing globally. To reduce the ongoing burden of 
this condition, early diagnosis and treatment are vital, and more targeted and 
specific strategies should be established in high-burden regions. Differences in 
incidence and mortality across regions may reflect the influence of genetic, 
environmental, diagnostic, pharmacotherapeutic, and health system factors.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/thoraxjnl-2020-216732
PMID: 34556551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


980. NPJ Regen Med. 2021 Sep 23;6(1):57. doi: 10.1038/s41536-021-00169-5.

Longevity leap: mind the healthspan gap.

Garmany A(1)(2)(3), Yamada S(1)(2)(4), Terzic A(5)(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Center for Regenerative Medicine, Marriott Family Comprehensive Cardiac 
Regenerative Medicine, Marriott Heart Disease Research Program, Van Cleve 
Cardiac Regenerative Medicine Program, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(3)Mayo Clinic Alix School of Medicine, Regenerative Sciences Track, Mayo Clinic 
Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(4)Division of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology, Department of Medicine, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(5)Center for Regenerative Medicine, Marriott Family Comprehensive Cardiac 
Regenerative Medicine, Marriott Heart Disease Research Program, Van Cleve 
Cardiac Regenerative Medicine Program, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. 
terzic.andre@mayo.edu.
(6)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. 
terzic.andre@mayo.edu.
(7)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. terzic.andre@mayo.edu.
(8)Department of Clinical Genomics, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. 
terzic.andre@mayo.edu.

Life expectancy has increased by three decades since the mid-twentieth century. 
Parallel healthspan expansion has however not followed, largely impeded by the 
pandemic of chronic diseases afflicting a growing older population. The lag in 
quality of life is a recognized challenge that calls for prioritization of 
disease-free longevity. Contemporary communal, clinical and research trends 
aspiring to extend the health horizon are here outlined in the context of an 
evolving epidemiology. A shared action integrating public and societal endeavors 
with emerging interventions that target age-related multimorbidity and frailty 
is needed. A multidimensional buildout of a curative perspective, boosted by 
modern anti-senescent and regenerative technology with augmented decision 
making, would require dedicated resources and cost-effective validation to 
responsibly bridge the healthspan-lifespan gap for a future of equitable global 
wellbeing.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41536-021-00169-5
PMCID: PMC8460831
PMID: 34556664

Conflict of interest statement: Authors disclose no conflict of interests 
relevant to this work. S.Y. and A.T. are co-inventors on regenerative sciences 
related intellectual property disclosed to Mayo Clinic.


981. Clinicoecon Outcomes Res. 2021 Sep 16;13:821-834. doi: 10.2147/CEOR.S327868.
 eCollection 2021.

A Cost Effectiveness Analysis of Rivaroxaban Compared to Warfarin for Deep Vein 
Thrombosis (DVT) Treatment in Ethiopia.

Derseh MT(1), Solomon K(2), Tamene W(3), Beneberu W(3), Yayehrad AT(4), Ambaye 
AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Departement of Pharmaceutics and Social Pharmacy, School of Pharmacy, College 
of Medicine and Health Sciences, Mizan-Tepi University, Mizan-Aman, Ethiopia.
(2)Ayder Teaching Hospital, College of Health Sciences, Mekelle University, 
Mekelle, Ethiopia.
(3)Tikur Anbessa Comprehensive Specialized Hospital (TASH), Federal Ministry of 
Health (FMOH), Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Bahir Dar 
University, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia.

BACKGROUND: Deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism are known by the 
collective name venous thromboembolism. Deep vein thrombosis is the third most 
common cardiovascular disorder in the world. The disease is also prevalent in 
Africa including Ethiopia, besides lack of studies that show epidemiology of the 
disease.
OBJECTIVE: To assess cost effectiveness of rivaroxaban compared to 
warfarin-based therapy for deep vein thrombosis patients in Ethiopia.
METHODS: A Markov model was built to compare cost and effectiveness of 
rivaroxaban 15mg bid for three weeks and 20mg per day for the rest to adjusted 
dose of warfarin for one year using a restricted societal perspective. The 
population in this analysis was a hypothetical cohort of deep vein thrombosis 
patients 40 years old with no contraindication, comorbidity and concomitant 
therapy. The patients were followed yearly for 24 years up to their average life 
expectancy.
RESULTS: Rivaroxaban therapy resulted in higher quality adjusted life years with 
a value of 16.78, while warfarin-based treatment resulted in 16.34 quality 
adjusted life years. Total lifetime costs were $988.58 for rivaroxaban and 
$932.92 for unfractionated heparin/warfarin. Therefore, rivaroxaban resulted in 
a gain of 0.443 quality adjusted life years at an additional cost of $55.661. 
The incremental cost effectiveness ratios for rivaroxaban compared with warfarin 
was $125.683 per quality adjusted life year saved which is less than willingness 
to pay threshold of $783 per quality adjusted life year saved. Warfarin resulted 
in a net monetary benefit of $11,859.72, while that of rivaroxaban is 
$12,150.82, meaning rivaroxaban is cost-effective. Sensitivity analyses found 
that the model was sensitive to utility of no deep vein thrombosis, 
effectiveness of rivaroxaban and cost of rivaroxaban respectively.
CONCLUSION: This study showed that rivaroxaban is a cost effective alternative 
and substituting rivaroxaban for warfarin is acceptable to willingness to pay 
threshold.

© 2021 Derseh et al.

DOI: 10.2147/CEOR.S327868
PMCID: PMC8453646
PMID: 34557006

Conflict of interest statement: The authors reported no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


982. Front Immunol. 2021 Sep 7;12:698438. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.698438.
eCollection  2021.

HLA-G 3'UTR Polymorphisms Are Linked to Susceptibility and Survival in Spanish 
Gastric Adenocarcinoma Patients.

Vaquero-Yuste C(1), Juarez I(1), Molina-Alejandre M(1), Molanes-López EM(2), 
López-Nares A(1), Suárez-Trujillo F(1), Gutiérrez-Calvo A(3), López-García A(3), 
Lasa I(3), Gómez R(3), Fernández-Cruz E(4), Rodrígez-Sainz C(4), Arnaiz-Villena 
A(1)(4), Martín-Villa JM(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Inmunología, Oftalmología y ORL, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Departamento de Estadística e Investigación Operativa, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Servicio de Cirugía General y Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario 
Príncipe de Asturias, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Gregorio Marañón, Madrid, Spain.

HLA-G is a non-classical class I HLA molecule that induces tolerance by acting 
on receptors of both innate and adaptive immune cells. When overexpressed in 
tumors, limits surveillance by the immune system. The HLA-G gene shows several 
polymorphisms involved in mRNA and protein levels. We decided to study the 
implication of two polymorphisms (rs371194629; 14bp INS/DEL and rs1063320; +3142 
C/G) in paired tissue samples (tumoral and non-tumoral) from 107 Spanish 
patients with gastric adenocarcinoma and 58 healthy control individuals, to 
assess the possible association of the HLA-G gene with gastric adenocarcinoma 
susceptibility, disease progression and survival. The presence of somatic 
mutations involving these polymorphisms was also analyzed. The frequency of the 
14bp DEL allele was increased in patients (70.0%) compared to controls (57.0%, 
p=0.025). In addition, the haplotype formed by the combination of the 14bp 
DEL/+3142 C variants is also increased in patients (54.1% vs 44.4%, p=0.034, 
OR=1.74 CI95% 1.05-2.89). Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that 14bp DEL/DEL 
patients showed lower 5-year life-expectancy than INS/DEL or INS/INS (p=0.041). 
Adjusting for TNM staging (Cox regression analysis) disclosed a significant 
difference in death risk (p=0.03) with an expected hazard 2.6 times higher. 
Finally, no somatic mutations were found when comparing these polymorphisms in 
tumoral vs non-tumoral tissues, which indicates that this is a preexisting 
condition in patients and not a de novo, tumor-restricted, event. In conclusion, 
the variants predominant in patients were those increasing HLA-G mRNA stability 
and HLA-G expression, clearly involving this molecule in gastric adenocarcinoma 
susceptibility, disease progression and survival and making it a potential 
target for immunotherapeutic approaches.

Copyright © 2021 Vaquero-Yuste, Juarez, Molina-Alejandre, Molanes-López, 
López-Nares, Suárez-Trujillo, Gutiérrez-Calvo, López-García, Lasa, Gómez, 
Fernández-Cruz, Rodrígez-Sainz, Arnaiz-Villena and Martín-Villa.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.698438
PMCID: PMC8453083
PMID: 34557189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


983. J Frailty Sarcopenia Falls. 2021 Sep 1;6(3):119-130. doi:
10.22540/JFSF-06-119.  eCollection 2021 Sep.

Associations between Disability in Activities of Daily Living and Social Capital 
aspects among older adults: a scoping review.

Zidrou C(1), Kleisiaris C(2), Adamakidou T(3).

Author information:
(1)2 Orthopaedic Department, G. Papageorgiou General Hospital, Thessaloniki, 
Greece.
(2)Hellenic Mediterranean University, Department of Nursing, Iraklion Crete, 
Greece.
(3)University of West Attica, Department of Nursing, Athens, Greece.

Social capital aspects are playing an important role in activities of daily 
living (ADL) performance, thus on independent living. This paper was aimed to 
present an overview of the associations and adverse effects between social 
capital aspects and disability in ADL and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) 
in an older population aged 65 years old and over. Α scoping review was designed 
following the guidelines of PRISMA Extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) 
and the review was conducted by 3 authors. A total of 185 primary studies were 
extracted and, finally, 40 studies did meet the inclusion criteria and 
critically appraised in two main categories; Category 1(29 studies) 'social 
capital and disability in ADL' deducing that as greater a social capital as 
better ADL performance and Category 2 (11 studies) 'Social capital and HRQoL' 
