
BACKGROUND: Current UK National Health Service (NHS) guidelines recommend 
appendicectomy as gold standard treatment for acute uncomplicated appendicitis. 
However, an alternative non-surgical management involves administrating 
antibiotic-only therapy with significantly lower costs. Therefore, a UK-based 
cost-utility analysis (CUA) was performed to compare appendicectomy with an 
antibiotic-only treatment from an NHS perspective.
METHODS: This economic evaluation modelled health-outcome data using the ACTUAA 
(2021) prospective multicentre trial. The non-randomised control trial followed 
318 patients given either antibiotic therapy or appendicectomy, with quality of 
life (QOL) assessed using the SF-12 questionnaires administered 1-year 
post-treatment. A CUA was conducted over a 1-year time horizon, measuring 
benefits in quality adjusted life years (QALYs) and costs in pound sterling 
using a propensity score-matched approach to control for selection based on 
observable factors.
RESULTS: The CUA produced an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of -GBP 
23,278.51 (-EUR 27,227.80) per QALY. Therefore, for each QALY gained using 
antibiotic-only treatment instead of appendicectomy, an extra GBP 23,278.51 was 
saved. Additionally, two sensitivity analyses were conducted to account for 
post-operative or post-treatment complications. The antibiotic-only option 
remained dominant in both scenarios.
CONCLUSION: While the results do not rely on a randomized sample, the analysis 
based on a 1-year follow-up suggested that antibiotics were largely more 
cost-effective than appendicectomy and led to improved QOL outcomes for 
patients. The ICER value of -GBP 23,278.51 demonstrates that the NHS must give 
further consideration to the current gold standard treatment in acute 
uncomplicated appendicitis.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18168473
PMCID: PMC8392297
PMID: 34444222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


619. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Aug 11;18(16):8492. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18168492.

A Step towards Understanding and Tackling Health Inequalities: The Use of 
Secondary Prevention Services and the Need for Health Promotion in a Rural 
Setting.

Karasiewicz M(1), Chawłowska E(1), Lipiak A(1), Więckowska B(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Poznan University of Medical Sciences, 
60-781 Poznan, Poland.
(2)Department of Computer Science and Statistics, Poznan University of Medical 
Sciences, 60-806 Poznan, Poland.

Poland has recently intensified its health promotion in an effort to extend 
healthy life expectancy and reduce health inequalities. Our aim was to reach a 
deprived rural population, increase its health literacy, and explore its use of 
and barriers to cancer screening and public health care. A CBPR study was 
conducted in one of the poorest districts in Wielkopolska region, Poland, among 
122 beneficiaries of health education workshops. A self-developed questionnaire 
was used. The reported barriers to participation in cancer screening included: 
lack of time, lack of need, or feeling healthy (32.8%); long waiting times 
(17.2%); fear of costs (9%). Physicians seldom recommended screening to their 
patients. Only 7.4% of respondents had ever received dermatoscopy. Among women, 
18.2% did not perform any breast exams and 25% had never had smear tests. 
Diagnostics was often financed out of pocket (thyroid ultrasound = 58.1%; smear 
test = 48.5%; breast ultrasound = 36.8%). The health system needs mentioned by 
participants included better access to physicians (65.6%), promotion of free 
screening tests (54.9%), and access to public health programmes (22.1%). There 
is an urgent need to translate national strategies into action. Health promotion 
and better access to care must become priorities in deprived areas, while 
primary care providers should become key figures in delivering these services.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18168492
PMCID: PMC8394776
PMID: 34444237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


620. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Aug 13;18(16):8559. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18168559.

Impacts from Economic Development and Environmental Factors on Life Expectancy: 
A Comparative Study Based on Data from Both Developed and Developing Countries 
from 2004 to 2016.

Chen Z(1), Ma Y(2), Hua J(2), Wang Y(2), Guo H(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Northeast Asian Studies, Jilin University, No. 2699 Qianjin 
Street, Changchun 130012, China.
(2)College of Biological and Agricultural Engineering, Jilin University, No. 
5988 Renmin Street, Changchun 130022, China.

Both economic development level and environmental factors have significant 
impacts on life expectancy at birth (LE). This paper takes LE as the research 
object and selects nine economic and environmental indicators with various 
impacts on LE. Based on a dataset of economic and environmental indicators of 20 
countries from 2004 to 2016, our research uses the Pearson Correlation 
Coefficient to evaluate the correlation coefficients between the indicators, and 
we use multiple regression models to measure the impact of each indicator on LE. 
Based on the results from models and calculations, this study conducts a 
comparative analysis of the influencing mechanisms of different indicators on LE 
in both developed and developing countries, with conclusions as follow: (1) GDP 
per capita and the percentage of forest area to land area have a positive impact 
on LE in developed countries; however, they have a negative impact on LE in 
developing countries. Total public expenditure on education as a percentage of 
GDP and fertilizer consumption have a negative impact on LE in developed 
countries; however, they have a positive impact on LE in developing countries. 
Gini coefficient and average annual exposure to PM2.5 have no significant effect 
on LE in developed countries; however, they have a negative impact on LE in 
developing countries. Current healthcare expenditures per capita have a negative 
impact on LE in developed countries, and there is no significant impact on LE in 
developing countries. (2) The urbanization rate has a significant positive 
impact on LE in both developed countries and developing countries. Carbon 
dioxide emissions have a negative impact on LE in both developed and developing 
countries. (3) In developed countries, GDP per capita has the greatest positive 
impact on LE, while fertilizer consumption has the greatest negative impact on 
LE. In developing countries, the urbanization rate has the greatest positive 
impact on LE, while the Gini coefficient has the greatest negative impact on LE. 
To improve and prolong LE, it is suggested that countries should prioritize 
increasing GDP per capita and urbanization level. At the same time, countries 
should also work on reducing the Gini coefficient and formulating appropriate 
healthcare and education policies. On the other hand, countries should balance 
between economic development and environmental protection, putting the emphasis 
more on environmental protection, reducing environmental pollution, and 
improving the environment's ability of self-purification.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18168559
PMCID: PMC8391297
PMID: 34444306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interests.


621. Nutrients. 2021 Jul 25;13(8):2540. doi: 10.3390/nu13082540.

Whole-Grain Intake in the Mediterranean Diet and a Low Protein to Carbohydrates 
Ratio Can Help to Reduce Mortality from Cardiovascular Disease, Slow Down the 
Progression of Aging, and to Improve Lifespan: A Review.

Capurso C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of Foggia, Viale 
Pinto 1, 71122 Foggia, Italy.

Increase in the aging population is a phenomenon all over the world. Maintaining 
good functional ability, good mental health, and cognitive function in the 
absence of severe disease and physical disability define successful aging. A 
healthy lifestyle in middle age predisposes successful aging. Longevity is the 
result of a multifactorial phenomenon, which involves feeding. Diets that 
emphasize fruit and vegetables, whole grains rather than refined grains, low-fat 
dairy, lean meats, fish, legumes, and nuts are inversely associated with 
mortality or to a lower risk of becoming frail among elderly subjects. A regular 
physical activity and a regular intake of whole grain derivatives together with 
the optimization of the protein/carbohydrate ratio in the diet, where the ratio 
is significantly less than 1 such as in the Mediterranean diet and the Okinawan 
diet, reduces the risk of developing aging-related diseases and increases 
healthy life expectancy. The purpose of our review was to analyze cohort and 
case-control studies that investigated the effects of cereals in the diet, 
especially whole grains and derivatives as well as the effects of a diet with a 
low protein-carbohydrate ratio on the progression of aging, mortality, and 
lifespan.

DOI: 10.3390/nu13082540
PMCID: PMC8401068
PMID: 34444699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


622. Nutrients. 2021 Aug 4;13(8):2693. doi: 10.3390/nu13082693.

Extension of Healthy Life Span of Dialysis Patients in the Era of a 100-Year 
Life.

Inaba M(1)(2), Mori K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Osaka City University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Osaka 545-8585, Japan.
(2)Kidney Center, Ohno Memorial Hospital, 1-26-20, Minami-Horie, Osaka 550-0015, 
Japan.

With both the elongation of hemodialysis (HD) duration resulting from the 
sophistication of HD technology and the increasing age at the time of HD 
initiation due to the aging society of Japan, the mean age of prevalent HD 
patients is increasing at an accelerating rate [...].

DOI: 10.3390/nu13082693
PMCID: PMC8400994
PMID: 34444853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


623. Nutrients. 2021 Aug 4;13(8):2699. doi: 10.3390/nu13082699.

Association of Walnut Consumption with Total and Cause-Specific Mortality and 
Life Expectancy in U.S. Adults.

Liu X(1)(2), Guasch-Ferré M(1)(3), Tobias DK(1)(4), Li Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, 
MA 02115, USA.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL 
60612, USA.
(3)Channing Division of Network Medicine, Department of Medicine, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(4)Division of Preventive Medicine, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Walnut consumption is associated with health benefits. We aimed to (1) examine 
the association between walnut consumption and mortality and (2) estimate life 
expectancy in relation to walnut consumption in U.S. adults. We included 67,014 
women of the Nurses' Health Study (1998-2018) and 26,326 men of the Health 
Professionals Follow-up Study (1998-2018) who were free of cancer, heart 
disease, and stroke at baseline. We used Cox regression models to estimate 
hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). During up to 20 years of 
follow-up, we documented 30,263 deaths. The hazard ratios for total mortality 
across categories of walnut intake (servings/week), as compared to 
non-consumers, were 0.95 (95% confidence interval (CI), 0.91, 0.98) for <1 
serving/week, 0.94 (95% CI, 0.89, 0.99) for 1 serving/week, 0.87 (95% CI, 0.82, 
0.93) for 2-4 servings/week, and 0.86 (95% CI, 0.79, 0.93) for >=5 servings/week 
(p for trend <0.0001). A greater life expectancy at age 60 (1.30 years in women 
and 1.26 years in men) was observed among those who consumed walnuts more than 5 
servings/week compared to non-consumers. Higher walnut consumption was 
associated with a lower risk of total and CVD mortality and a greater gained 
life expectancy among U.S. elder adults.

DOI: 10.3390/nu13082699
PMCID: PMC8401409
PMID: 34444859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Li has received research support from California 
Walnut Commission. The funder has no role in the design and conduct of the 
study, in the collection, analysis, and interpretation of the data, and in the 
preparation, review, or in the decision to publish the results. All other 
authors have reported that they have no relationships relevant to the contents 
of this paper to disclose.


624. Nutrients. 2021 Aug 6;13(8):2712. doi: 10.3390/nu13082712.

Benefits of Adding an Aquatic Resistance Interval Training to a Nutritional 
Education on Body Composition, Body Image Perception and Adherence to the 
Mediterranean Diet in Older Women.

Martínez-Rodríguez A(1)(2), Cuestas-Calero BJ(3), Martínez-Olcina M(1), 
Marcos-Pardo PJ(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Analytical Chemistry, Nutrition and Food Science, Faculty of 
Sciences, University of Alicante, 03690 Alicante, Spain.
(2)Alicante Institute for Health and Biomedical Research (ISABIAL Foundation), 
03010 Alicante, Spain.
(3)Faculty of Sport, San Antonio Catholic University of Murcia, 30107 Murcia, 
Spain.
(4)Department of Education, Faculty of Education Sciences, University of 
Almería, 04120 Almería, Spain.
(5)SPORT Research Group (CTS-1024), CERNEP Research Center, University of 
Almería, 04120 Almería, Spain.

The human population is increasing due to lengthening life expectancy, but the 
quality of life and health of people is moving in the opposite direction. The 
purpose of this study is to evaluate how aquatic resistance interval training 
can influence body composition, body image perception and adherence to the 
Mediterranean diet (MD) in older women participants in a nutrition education 
program and to study the relation between these variables. Thirty-four 
participants aged 69 ± 4 years were randomly assigned into two groups: 
experimental (aquatic resistance interval training plus nutritional 
intervention) and control (nutritional intervention). The intervention consisted 
of resistance training in an aquatic environment carried out for 14 weeks (three 
sessions per week; 60 min each). Body composition, body image perception and 
adherence to MD diet were evaluated at baseline and 14 weeks. No significant 
differences were found between groups regarding body image perception and 
adherence to the MD. There was a significant increase in muscle mass (kg) (p < 
0.001) and a significant decrease in fat mass (kg) (p < 0.001) in the 
intervention group when compared to the control group. The addition of aquatic 
resistance interval training to a nutritional intervention was not sufficient to 
change body image perception and adherence to MD but produced improvement in 
body composition (through an increase in muscle mass and decrease on fat mass) 
in older women.

DOI: 10.3390/nu13082712
PMCID: PMC8400619
PMID: 34444872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


625. Nutrients. 2021 Aug 13;13(8):2785. doi: 10.3390/nu13082785.

Malnutrition in Pediatric Chronic Cholestatic Disease: An Up-to-Date Overview.

Tessitore M(1), Sorrentino E(1), Schiano Di Cola G(1), Colucci A(1), Vajro P(1), 
Mandato C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Surgery and Dentistry "Scuola Medica Salernitana", 
Chair of Pediatrics and Residency Program of Pediatrics, Via S. Allende, 
University of Salerno, 84081 Baronissi, SA, Italy.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Santobono-Pausilipon Children's Hospital Via M. 
Fiore, 80129 Naples, Italy.

Despite recent advances, the causes of and effective therapies for pediatric 
chronic cholestatic diseases remain elusive, and many patients progress to liver 
failure and need liver transplantation. Malnutrition is a common complication in 
these patients and is a well-recognized, tremendous challenge for the clinician. 
We undertook a narrative review of both recent and relevant older literature, 
published during the last 20 years, for studies linking nutrition to pediatric 
chronic cholestasis. The collected data confirm that malnutrition and failure to 
thrive are associated with increased risks of morbidity and mortality, and they 
also affect the outcomes of liver transplantation, including long-term survival. 
Malnutrition in children with chronic liver disease is multifactorial and with 
multiple potential nutritional deficiencies. To improve life expectancy and the 
quality of life, patients require careful assessments and appropriate management 
of their nutritional statuses by multidisciplinary teams, which can identify 
and/or prevent specific deficiencies and initiate appropriate interventions. 
Solutions available for the clinical management of these children in general, as 
well as those directed to specific etiologies, are summarized. We particularly 
focus on fat-soluble vitamin deficiency and malnutrition due to fat 
malabsorption. Supplemental feeding, including medium-chain triglycerides, 
essential fatty acids, branched-chain amino acids, and the extra calories needed 
to overcome the consequences of anorexia and high energy requirements, is 
reviewed. Future studies should address the need for further improving 
commercially available and nutritionally complete infant milk formulae for the 
dietary management of this fragile category of patients. The aid of a specialist 
dietitian, educational training regarding nutritional guidelines for 
stakeholders, and improving family nutritional health literacy appear essential.

DOI: 10.3390/nu13082785
PMCID: PMC8400766
PMID: 34444944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


626. Nutrients. 2021 Aug 16;13(8):2804. doi: 10.3390/nu13082804.

Effects of Dietary Food Components on Cognitive Functions in Older Adults.

Ozawa H(1), Miyazawa T(1), Miyazawa T(1).

Author information:
(1)New Industry Creation Hatchery Center (NICHe), Tohoku University, Sendai 
980-8579, Japan.

Population aging has recently been an important issue as the number of elderly 
people is growing worldwide every year, and the extension of social security 
costs is financially costly. The increase in the number of elderly people with 
cognitive decline is a serious problem related to the aging of populations. 
Therefore, it is necessary to consider not only physical care but also cognitive 
patterns in the future care of older adults. Since food contains a variety of 
bioactive substances, dietary patterns may help improve age-related cognitive 
decline. However, the relationship between cognitive function and individual 
food components remains ambiguous as no clear efficacy or mechanism has been 
confirmed. Against this background, this review summarizes previous reports on 
the biological process of cognitive decline in the elderly and the relationship 
between individual compounds in foods and cognitive function, as well as the 
role of individual components of food in cognitive function, in the following 
order: lipids, carotenoids, vitamins, phenolic compounds, amino acids, peptides, 
and proteins. Based on the research presented in this review, a proper diet that 
preserves cognitive function has the potential to improve age-related cognitive 
decline, Alzheimer's disease, and Parkinson's disease. Hopefully, this review 
will help to trigger the development of new foods and technologies that improve 
aging and cognitive functions and extend the healthy life span.

DOI: 10.3390/nu13082804
PMCID: PMC8398286
PMID: 34444965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


627. Nutrients. 2021 Aug 17;13(8):2824. doi: 10.3390/nu13082824.

Special Issue: "Optimising Nutrition to Alleviate Age-Associated Functional 
Decline".

Kostka T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Healthy Ageing Research Centre, Medical University 
of Lodz, Plac Hallera 1, 90-647 Lodz, Poland.

Appropriate nutrition is a cornerstone of preventive gerontology [...].

DOI: 10.3390/nu13082824
PMCID: PMC8398865
PMID: 34444983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


628. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Aug 22;22(16):9059. doi: 10.3390/ijms22169059.

Bioactive Peptides as Potential Nutraceuticals for Diabetes Therapy: A 
Comprehensive Review.

Antony P(1), Vijayan R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, College of Science, United Arab Emirates University, 
Al Ain P.O. Box 15551, United Arab Emirates.

Diabetes mellitus is a major public health concern associated with high 
mortality and reduced life expectancy. The alarming rise in the prevalence of 
diabetes is linked to several factors including sedentary lifestyle and 
unhealthy diet. Nutritional intervention and increased physical activity could 
significantly contribute to bringing this under control. Food-derived bioactive 
peptides and protein hydrolysates have been associated with a number health 
benefits. Several peptides with antidiabetic potential have been identified that 
could decrease blood glucose level, improve insulin uptake and inhibit key 
enzymes involved in the development and progression of diabetes. Dietary 
proteins, from a wide range of food, are rich sources of antidiabetic peptides. 
Thus, there are a number of benefits in studying peptides obtained from food 
sources to develop nutraceuticals. A deeper understanding of the underlying 
molecular mechanisms of these peptides will assist in the development of new 
peptide-based therapeutics. Despite this, a comprehensive analysis of the 
antidiabetic properties of bioactive peptides derived from various food sources 
is still lacking. Here, we review the recent literature on food-derived 
bioactive peptides possessing antidiabetic activity. The focus is on the 
effectiveness of these peptides as evidenced by in vitro and in vivo studies. 
Finally, we discuss future prospects of peptide-based drugs for the treatment of 
diabetes.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22169059
PMCID: PMC8396489
PMID: 34445765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


629. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2021 Aug 6;55(8):958-964. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112150-20201013-01274.

[Analysis on disease burden of stroke in China and the regions with different 
sociodemographic index from 1990 to 2017].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Qi JY(1), Wang CR(2), Liu M(1), Liu SW(3), Wang ZW(4), Wang CP(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Weifang Medical University, Weifang 261053, China.
(2)Maternal and Child Health Center, Chinese Center for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Beijing 100081, China.
(3)Tobacco Control Office, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Beijing 100050, China.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Weifang People's Hospital, Weifang 261000, China.

Objective: To examine the trend of stroke disease burden and its main 
risk-attributable factors in China and regions with different Socio-Demographic 
Index (SDI) from 1990 to 2017. Methods: With 2017 Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 
data, years lived with disability (YLDs), years of life lost (YLLs) and 
disability-adjusted of life years (DALYs) were applied to describe the disease 
burden and major risk factors of stroke in China and different SDI regions from 
1990 to 2017, and to analyze the changing trend of the disease burden and major 
risk factors of stroke. Results: From 1990 to 2017, the YLD crude rate, YLL 
crude rate and DALY crude rate for stroke in China showed an increasing trend 
and the rate of change was 126.5%, 14.6%, and 24.4%, respectively. In 2017, the 
YLD crude rate, YLL crude rate and DALY crude rate for stroke in China were 
502.6 per 100 000, 2 633.1 per 100 000 and 3 135.7 per 100 000, respectively. 
Among them, the YLD crude rate, YLL crude rate, and DALY crude rate of stroke 
were the highest in the ≥70 age group, which were 2 617.2 per 100 000, 16 789.4 
per 100 000 and 19 406.6 per 100 000, respectively. The YLD crude rate in male 
was 475.5 per 100 000, which was slightly lower than that of female (530.9 per 
100 000), while the DALY crude rate and YLL crude rate for stroke were 3 657.1 
per 100 000 and 3 181.7 per 100 000, respectively, which were significantly 
higher than that of female (2 591.8 per 100 000 and 2 060.9 per 100 000). 
Compared with regions with different SDI, the age standardized YLD rate, the age 
standardized YLL rate, the age standardized DALY rate in China were all at a 
high level. Among them, the age-standardized YLD rate increased from 286.2 per 
100 000 to 374.5 per 100 000, with a rate of change of 30.9%; the 
age-standardized YLL rate decreased from 3 215.6 per 100 000 to 1 967.8 per 100 
000, with a rate of change of -38.8%; the age-standardized DALY rate increased 
from 3 501.8 per 100 000 to 2 342.3 per 100 000, with a rate of change of 
-33.1%. The top five risk factors for stroke in China were hypertension, 
excessive sodium intake, insufficient fruit intake, insufficient cereal intake, 
and smoking in 1990 and 2017. High Body-Mass Index and Alcohol Use's rankings 
rose from the 9th and 10th in 1990 to the 6th and 7th in 2017, respectively. 
Conclusion: The burden of stroke disease in China is at a high level, and 
hypertension is the primary risk factor.

Publisher: 目的： 分析1990-2017年中国和不同社会人口学指数（SDI）地区脑卒中疾病负担和主要危险因素的变化趋势。 方法： 
利用2017年全球疾病负担（GBD 
2017）数据，采用伤残损失健康寿命年（YLDs）、早死损失寿命年（YLLs）和伤残调整寿命年（DALYs）等指标，描述1990-2017年中国和不同SDI地区脑卒中疾病负担和主要危险因素等情况，分析脑卒中疾病负担和主要危险因素的变化趋势。 
结果： 
1990-2017年，中国脑卒中YLD粗率、YLL粗率和DALY粗率均呈现上升趋势，变化率分别为126.5%、14.6%、24.4%。2017年中国脑卒中YLD粗率、YLL粗率和DALY粗率分别为502.6/10万、2 
633.1/10万和3 135.7/10万，其中≥70岁组YLD粗率、YLL粗率、和DALY粗率最高，分别为2 617.2/10万、16 
789.4/10万和19 406.6/10万。男性YLD粗率为475.5/10万，略低于女性（530.9/10万）；DALY粗率和YLL粗率分别为3 
657.1/10万和3 181.7/10万，高于女性（2 591.8/10万和2 
060.9/10万）。与不同SDI地区相比，1990-2017年中国脑卒中标化YLD率、标化YLL率、标化DALY率均处于高水平，其中标化YLD率由1990年的286.2/10万上升至2017年的374.5/10万，变化率为30.9%；标化YLL率由1990年的3 
215.6/10万下降至2017年的1 967.8/10万，变化率为-38.8%；标化DALY率由1990年的3 501.8/10万下降至2017年的2 
342.3/10万，变化率为-33.1%。1990和2017年中国脑卒中前5位危险因素分别为高血压、钠摄入过多、水果摄入不足、谷类摄入不足和吸烟，高体重指数和饮酒顺位分别由1990年的第9位和第10位上升至2017年的第6位和第7位。 
结论： 中国脑卒中疾病负担处于高水平，高血压为首要危险因素。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112150-20201013-01274
PMID: 34445833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Popul Health Metr. 2021 Aug 26;19(1):34. doi: 10.1186/s12963-021-00264-1.

Method for reconstructing mortality by educational groups.

Németh L(1), Jasilionis D(2), Brønnum-Hansen H(3), Jdanov DA(2).

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Konrad-Zuse-Straße 1., 18057, 
Rostock, Germany. nemeth@demogr.mpg.de.
(2)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Konrad-Zuse-Straße 1., 18057, 
Rostock, Germany.
(3)Department of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Øster Farimagsgade 5, 
postboks 2099, 1014, København K, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: The lack of classification by educational attainment in death and 
population exposure data at older ages is an important constraint for studying 
changes and patterns of mortality disparities by education in Denmark and 
Sweden. The missing educational distribution of population also restricts 
analyses aiming at estimating contributions of compositional change to the 
improvements in national longevity. This study proposes a transparent approach 
to solve the two methodological issues allowing to obtain robust 
education-specific mortality estimates and population weights.
METHODS: Using nonparametric approach, we redistribute the unknown cases and 
extrapolate the mortality curves of these sub-populations with the help of 
population-level data on an aggregate level from the Human Mortality Database.
RESULTS: We present reconstructed and harmonized education-specific abridged and 
complete life tables for Sweden and Denmark covering 5-year-long periods from 
1991-1995 to 2011-2015. The newly estimated life tables are in good agreement 
with the national life tables and show plausible age- and education-specific 
patterns. The observed changes in life expectancy by education suggest about the 
widening longevity gap between the highest and lowest educated for males and 
females in both countries.
CONCLUSIONS: The proposed simple and transparent method can be applied in 
similar country-specific cases showing large proportions of missing education or 
other socio-economic characteristics at older ages.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12963-021-00264-1
PMCID: PMC8393442
PMID: 34446043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


631. Stem Cell Res Ther. 2021 Aug 26;12(1):478. doi: 10.1186/s13287-021-02541-0.

Labial gland-derived mesenchymal stem cells and their exosomes ameliorate murine 
Sjögren's syndrome by modulating the balance of Treg and Th17 cells.

Li B(#)(1)(2), Xing Y(#)(1)(2), Gan Y(1)(2), He J(#)(3), Hua H(#)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Medicine, Peking University School and Hospital of 
Stomatology, No. 22, Zhongguancun South Avenue, Haidian District, Beijing, 
100081, People's Republic of China.
(2)Central Laboratory, Peking University School and Hospital of Stomatology, No. 
22, Zhongguancun South Avenue, Haidian District, Beijing, 100081, People's 
Republic of China.
(3)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, Peking University People's 
Hospital, No. 11, Xizhimen South Street, Xicheng District, Beijing, 100044, 
People's Republic of China. hejing1105@126.com.
(4)Department of Oral Medicine, Peking University School and Hospital of 
Stomatology, No. 22, Zhongguancun South Avenue, Haidian District, Beijing, 
100081, People's Republic of China. honghua1968@aliyun.com.
(5)Central Laboratory, Peking University School and Hospital of Stomatology, No. 
22, Zhongguancun South Avenue, Haidian District, Beijing, 100081, People's 
Republic of China. honghua1968@aliyun.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Sjögren's syndrome (SS) is a chronic, systemic autoimmune disorder 
characterized by sicca syndrome and/or systemic manifestations. The disease 
severely affects the health and life of patients, and the treatment of SS has 
always been a clinical challenge and essentially palliative. Mesenchymal stem 
cells (MSCs) have been reported to exert immunomodulatory effects and as a 
potential novel therapeutic strategy for SS. Labial gland-derived MSCs (LGMSCs) 
are a population of resident stem cells in the labial gland, first isolated by 
our group. Exosomes released by MSCs contain a large variety of bioactive 
molecules and considered to function as an extension of MSCs.
METHODS: LGMSCs were isolated from patients who were needed surgery to remove 
the lip mucocele and LGMSCs derived exosomes (LGMSC-Exos) were isolated by 
ultracentrifugation. The non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice were treated with LGMSCs 
or LGMSC-Exos by tail vein injection. The saliva flow rate of mice was 
determined and salivary glands were dissected and stained with hematoxylin and 
eosin. In vitro, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from SS patients 
were cocultured with LGMSCs or LGMSC-Exos. Percentage of T helper 17 (Th17) 
cells and regulatory T (Treg) cells were determined by flow cytometry. The serum 
levels of cytokines in NOD mice and in the supernatant of the co-culture system 
by ELISA.
RESULTS: Treatment with LGMSCs or LGMSC-Exos reduced inflammatory infiltration 
in the salivary glands, and restored salivary gland secretory function in NOD 
mice. Importantly, LGMSCs or LGMSC-Exos were demonstrated to inhibit the 
differentiation of Th17 cells but promote the induction of Treg cells in NOD 
mice and PBMCs from SS patients in vitro, accompanied by reduced interleukin 17 
(IL-17), interferon gamma, and IL-6 levels and enhanced transforming growth 
factor beta and IL-10 secretion by T cells.
CONCLUSIONS: LGMSCs are potential candidates for MSCs-based therapy and 
LGMSC-Exos might be utilized for establishing a new cell-free therapy against 
SS.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13287-021-02541-0
PMCID: PMC8390194
PMID: 34446113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


632. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2022 Feb;48(2):403-410. doi: 10.1016/j.ejso.2021.08.012.
Epub  2021 Aug 17.

Perioperative chemotherapy versus adjuvant chemotherapy strategies in resectable 
gastric and gastroesophageal cancer: A Markov decision analysis.

Choi M(1), Ishizawa S(2), Kraemer D(2), Sasson A(3), Feinberg E(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Stony Brook University, USA. Electronic address: 
Minsig.choi@stonybrookmedicine.edu.
(2)Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics, Stony Brook University, 
USA.
(3)Department of Surgery, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY, 11794-3600, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Perioperative chemotherapy has been shown to improve overall 
survival (OS) for operable gastric and gastroesophageal cancer. However, optimal 
sequence of surgery and chemotherapy has not been clearly identified. Markov 
models are useful for analyzing the outcomes of different treatment strategies 
in the absence of adequately powered randomized clinical trials. In this study, 
we use Markov decision analysis models to compare median OS (mOS), 
quality-adjusted mOS, life expectancy (LE), and quality-adjusted life expectancy 
(QALE) of perioperative chemotherapy with adjuvant chemotherapy strategies in 
resectable gastric and gastroesophageal cancer patients.
METHODS: Markov models are constructed to compare two strategies: adjuvant 
chemotherapy after surgery and preoperative chemotherapy followed by cancer 
resection and postoperative chemotherapy. LE and QALE are calculated 
analytically, and mOS are obtained by simulation. Parameters used in the models 
are computed from prospective clinical trial data published in PUBMED from 
January 2000 to July 2020.
RESULTS: Total of 8088 patients from 25 prospective studies were included in 
this analysis. Regardless of R0 resection ratio, the analyses of the models show 
a higher mOS for patients in the perioperative therapy arm compared to adjuvant 
chemotherapy. For R0 resected patients, the perioperative therapy arm provided 
an additional 11.0 mOS months (61.3 months vs. 50.3 months). For R1 resected 
patients, the perioperative therapy arm had mOS of 17.0 months vs. 10.7 months 
in adjuvant therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The Markov models indicate that perioperative chemotherapy improves 
mOS, quality-adjusted mOS, LE, and QALE for resectable gastric and 
gastroesophageal cancer patients compared to adjuvant chemotherapy strategies.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2021.08.012
PMID: 34446344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Hypertens Res. 2021 Nov;44(11):1524-1533. doi: 10.1038/s41440-021-00731-0.
Epub  2021 Aug 26.

Productivity burden of hypertension in Japan.

Asakura E(1), Ademi Z(2), Liew D(1), Zomer E(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(2)School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia. zanfina.ademi@monash.edu.

In the present study, we aimed to estimate the impact of hypertension in the 
working-age Japanese population. We developed life table models to estimate 
total deaths, years of life lived, and productivity-adjusted life years lived (a 
newly developed metric for quantifying the burden of acute and chronic health 
conditions on work productivity) among Japanese individuals with hypertension 
aged 20-64 years, with simulated follow-up until age 65 years. Data inputs were 
drawn from local population statistics and published sources. Gross domestic 
product per person employed, a measure of labor productivity, was used to assign 
an economic value to each productivity-adjusted life year lived. Outcomes and 
costs were discounted by 2% annually. In 2017, 26.3 million Japanese individuals 
aged 20-64 years (37.5%) had hypertension. Of these people, 23.7% were treated 
and had controlled blood pressure, 23.2% were treated but had uncontrolled blood 
pressure, and 53.1% were untreated. During the simulated follow-up until age 65 
years, 335,342 deaths (28.0% of total deaths), 1.6 million years of life (0.8% 
of total), 3.1 million productivity-adjusted life years (1.9% of total), and 
US$242.9 billion or 28.3 trillion Japanese yen of gross domestic product were 
lost to hypertension. Our findings highlight the considerable economic burden of 
hypertension in Japan, as well as the importance of effective strategies for 
hypertension prevention and management, which are likely to deliver a 
significant return on investment.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Japanese Society of 
Hypertension.

DOI: 10.1038/s41440-021-00731-0
PMID: 34446919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Nat Chem. 2021 Nov;13(11):1038-1045. doi: 10.1038/s41557-021-00772-5. Epub
2021  Aug 26.

Heat flows in rock cracks naturally optimize salt compositions for ribozymes.

Matreux T(#)(1), Le Vay K(#)(2), Schmid A(1), Aikkila P(1), Belohlavek L(3), 
Çalışkanoğlu AZ(3), Salibi E(2), Kühnlein A(1), Springsklee C(3), Scheu B(3), 
Dingwell DB(3), Braun D(1), Mutschler H(4), Mast CB(5).

Author information:
(1)Systems Biophysics, Ludwig Maximilians University Munich, Munich, Germany.
(2)MPI für Biochemie, Biomimetische Systeme, Martinsried, Germany.
(3)Earth and Environmental Sciences, Ludwig Maximilians University Munich, 
Munich, Germany.
(4)TU Dortmund University, Dortmund, Germany. hannes.mutschler@tu-dortmund.de.
(5)Systems Biophysics, Ludwig Maximilians University Munich, Munich, Germany. 
christof.mast@physik.uni-muenchen.de.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum in
    Nat Chem. 2021 Sep 9;:

Catalytic nucleic acids, such as ribozymes, are central to a variety of 
origin-of-life scenarios. Typically, they require elevated magnesium 
concentrations for folding and activity, but their function can be inhibited by 
high concentrations of monovalent salts. Here we show that geologically 
plausible high-sodium, low-magnesium solutions derived from leaching basalt 
(rock and remelted glass) inhibit ribozyme catalysis, but that this activity can 
be rescued by selective magnesium up-concentration by heat flow across rock 
fissures. In contrast to up-concentration by dehydration or freezing, this 
system is so far from equilibrium that it can actively alter the Mg:Na salt 
ratio to an extent that enables key ribozyme activities, such as 
self-replication and RNA extension, in otherwise challenging solution 
conditions. The principle demonstrated here is applicable to a broad range of 
salt concentrations and compositions, and, as such, highly relevant to various 
origin-of-life scenarios.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41557-021-00772-5
PMID: 34446924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Demogr Res. 2020 Jul-Dec;43:1009-1048. doi: 10.4054/demres.2020.43.34. Epub
2020  Oct 2.

Unobserved Population Heterogeneity and Dynamics of Health Disparities.

Zheng H(1).

Author information:
(1)Ohio State University.

BACKGROUND: A growing body of literature has reported widening educational 
health disparities across birth cohorts or time periods in the United States, 
but has paid little attention to the implication of mortality selection on the 
cohort trend in health disparities.
OBJECTIVE: This study investigates how changes in the variance of unobserved 
frailty over time may complicate the interpretation of cohort trends in health 
disparities and life expectancy.
METHODS: We use the microsimulation method to test the effect of mortality 
selection and further propose a counterfactual simulation procedure to estimate 
its contribution. Data used in the simulations are based on Panel Studies of 
Income Dynamics 1968-2013, National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey data 
1999-2012, and National Health Interview Survey data 1986-2011.
RESULTS: Simulation shows that mortality selection may generate seemingly 
contradictory trends in health disparities and life expectancy across birth 
cohorts at the group and individual level. Life expectancy can change even when 
individual mortality curve is fixed. In the absence of a change in the causal 
effect of education on mortality at the individual level, an educational life 
expectancy gap can change across cohorts as a result of the change in frailty 
variance. Empirical analysis shows that mortality selection accounts for a 
sizeable amount of contribution to the widening educational life expectancy gap 
from the 1950s to 1960s birth cohorts in the United States.
CONTRIBUTION: We demonstrate mortality selection can complicate the cohort trend 
in health disparities and life expectancy and propose a counterfactual 
simulation method to evaluate its contribution.

DOI: 10.4054/demres.2020.43.34
PMCID: PMC8386677
PMID: 34447286


636. Front Plant Sci. 2021 Aug 10;12:650252. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2021.650252. 
eCollection 2021.

Transcriptome and Coexpression Network Analyses Reveal Hub Genes in Chinese 
Cabbage (Brassica rapa L. ssp. pekinensis) During Different Stages of 
Plasmodiophora brassicae Infection.

Yuan Y(1)(2), Qin L(1)(2), Su H(1), Yang S(1), Wei X(1), Wang Z(1), Zhao Y(1), 
Li L(1), Liu H(1)(2), Tian B(2), Zhang X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Horticulture, Henan Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Graduate 
T&R Base of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, China.

Clubroot, caused by the soil-borne protist Plasmodiophora brassicae, is one of 
the most destructive diseases of Chinese cabbage worldwide. However, the 
clubroot resistance mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, in both 
clubroot-resistant (DH40R) and clubroot-susceptible (DH199S) Chinese cabbage 
lines, the primary (root hair infection) and secondary (cortical infection) 
infection stages started 2 and 5 days after inoculation (dai), respectively. 
With the extension of the infection time, cortical infection was blocked and 
complete P. brassica resistance was observed in DH40R, while disease scales of 
1, 2, and 3 were observed at 8, 13, and 22 dai in DH199S. Transcriptome analysis 
at 0, 2, 5, 8, 13, and 22 dai identified 5,750 relative DEGs (rDEGs) between 
DH40R and DH199S. The results indicated that genes associated with auxin, PR, 
disease resistance proteins, oxidative stress, and WRKY and MYB transcription 
factors were involved in clubroot resistance regulation. In addition, weighted 
gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) identified three of the modules whose 
functions were highly associated with clubroot-resistant, including ten hub 
genes related to clubroot resistance (ARF2, EDR1, LOX4, NHL3, NHL13, NAC29, two 
AOP1, EARLI 1, and POD56). These results provide valuable information for better 
understanding the molecular regulatory mechanism of Chinese cabbage clubroot 
resistance.

Copyright © 2021 Yuan, Qin, Su, Yang, Wei, Wang, Zhao, Li, Liu, Tian and Zhang.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2021.650252
PMCID: PMC8383047
PMID: 34447397

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


637. Comput Intell Neurosci. 2021 Aug 16;2021:9819200. doi: 10.1155/2021/9819200.
 eCollection 2021.

A Flexible Extension of Pareto Distribution: Properties and Applications.

Alshanbari HM(1), Al-Aziz Hosni El-Bagoury A(2), Gemeay AM(2), Hafez EH(3), 
Eldeeb AS(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematical Sciences, College of Science, Princess Nourah bint 
Abdulrahman University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Tanta University, Tanta 31527, 
Egypt.
(3)Department of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Helwan University, Helwan, 
Egypt.
(4)Department of Business Administration, College of Business, King Khaled 
University, Abha, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Department of Statistics, Mathematics and Insurance, Alexandria University, 
Alexandria, Egypt.

This paper introduced a relatively new mixture distribution that results from a 
mixture of Fréchet-Weibull and Pareto distributions. Some properties of the new 
statistical model were derived, such as moments with their related measures, 
moment generating function, mean residual life function, and mean deviation. 
Furthermore , different estimation methods were introduced for determining the 
unknown parameters of the proposed model. Finally, we introduced three real data 
sets which were applied to our distribution and compared them with other 
well-known statistical competitive models to show the superiority of our model 
for fitting the three real data sets, and we can clearly see that our 
distribution outperforms its competitors. Also, to verify our results, we 
carried out the existence and uniqueness test to the log-likelihood to determine 
whether the roots are global maximum or not.

Copyright © 2021 Huda M. Alshanbari et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2021/9819200
PMCID: PMC8384517
PMID: 34447432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


638. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2021 Aug 14;2021:5294266. doi: 10.1155/2021/5294266. 
eCollection 2021.

Metformin and tBHQ Treatment Combined with an Exercise Regime Prevents 
Osteosarcopenic Obesity in Middle-Aged Wistar Female Rats.

Toledo-Pérez R(1)(2)(3), Lopéz-Cervantes SP(1)(2), Hernández-Álvarez D(2)(3)(4), 
Mena-Montes B(1)(2)(3), Pedraza-Vázquez G(1)(2)(3), Sánchez-Garibay C(5), 
López-Diazguerrero NE(2), Königsberg M(2), Luna-López A(3).

Author information:
(1)Posgrado en Biología Experimental, Depto. de Ciencias de la Salud, 
Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana Unidad Iztapalapa, CDMX 09340, Mexico.
(2)Laboratorio de Bioenergética y Envejecimiento Celular, Depto. de Ciencias de 
la Salud, Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana, Unidad Iztapalapa, CDMX 09340, 
Mexico.
(3)Departamento de Investigación Básica, Instituto Nacional de Geriatría, CDMX 
10200, Mexico.
(4)Doctorado en Ciencias Biológicas y de la Salud, Universidad Autónoma 
Metropolitana, CDMX, Mexico.
(5)Departamento de Neuropatología, Instituto Nacional de Neurología y 
Neurocirugía "Manuel Velasco Suárez", CDMX 14269, Mexico.

Osteosarcopenic obesity (OSO) is characterized by bone density, mass, and muscle 
strength loss, in conjunction with adipose tissue increase. OSO impairs physical 
activity and mobility, provoking autonomy loss; also, it is known that 
augmenting body fat in the elderly decreases life expectancy. The main factors 
influencing this health deterioration are the inflammatory environment induced 
by adipose tissue and its infiltration into muscle tissue, which leads to 
oxidative stress generation. Currently, there are several treatments to delay 
OSO, among which exercise training stands out because it improves muscle fiber 
quality and quantity and decreases adipose tissue. We have recently demonstrated 
that the combined treatment between moderate exercise and metformin slows 
sarcopenia's onset by a mechanism that includes adipose reduction and REDOX 
regulation. On the other hand, tert-butylhydroquinone (tBHQ) is a well-known 
antioxidant that counteracts oxidative stress. Therefore, to slow down obesity's 
harmful effects on muscle mass and bone mineral density, we performed different 
interventions, including combining a Fartlek-type exercise routine with 
metformin and tBHQ administration, in a model of middle-aged female Wistar rats 
with obesity induced with a hypercaloric diet. Our results showed that the 
combined exercise-metformin-tBHQ treatment increased muscle mass and strength, 
decreased body weight, body mass index, and fat percentage, and improved redox 
status, thus increasing animal survival.

Copyright © 2021 Rafael Toledo-Pérez et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2021/5294266
PMCID: PMC8383718
PMID: 34447486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests and that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial 
or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest.


639. PeerJ. 2021 Aug 12;9:e11913. doi: 10.7717/peerj.11913. eCollection 2021.

Comparative survival analyses among captive chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) in 
America and Japan.

Che-Castaldo J(1), Havercamp K(2), Watanuki K(2), Matsuzawa T(3)(4), Hirata 
S(2)(5), Ross SR(6).

Author information:
(1)Alexander Center for Applied Population Biology, Conservation & Science 
Department, Lincoln Park Zoo, Chicago, Illinois, United States.
(2)Wildlife Research Center, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.
(3)Chubu Gakuin University, Gifu, Japan.
(4)Division of the Humanities and Social Science, California Institute of 
Technology, Pasadena, California, United States.
(5)Kumamoto Sanctuary, Kyoto University, Kumamoto, Japan.
(6)Lester E. Fisher Center for the Study and Conservation of Apes, Lincoln Park 
Zoo, Chicago, Illinois, United States.

Detailed, long-term datasets on the life histories of long-lived species such as 
great apes are necessary to understand their survival patterns but are 
relatively rare. Such information requires prolonged and consistent 
record-keeping over many generations, so for chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes), this 
equates to many decades of input. As life history variables can be altered by 
differences in environmental influences (whether natural or artificial), there 
is substantial value to being able to compare across populations. Here, we 
present the first comparative analysis of life history data for two ex situ 
chimpanzee populations residing in North America (1975-2020; n = 730) and Japan 
(1980-2020; n = 660). Overall, survival patterns were similar between regions, 
and the median life expectancy from birth is estimated at 35.7 (95% CI = 
[32.4-40.0]) years for females and 30.1 (27.3-34.3) years for males across both 
populations. Females who survive to their first birthday are estimated to 
survive 42.4 (40.0-46.3) years and males 35.5 (32.6-38.0) years. We found that 
birth type (wild-born or captive-born) did not influence survival patterns in 
either population, but there were differential effects of sex on longevity. In 
the America population, males had higher mortality rates than females, whereas 
in the Japan population we found no differences between the sexes. First year 
mortality did not differ between populations for males (18-20%), but for females 
it was lower in America (15%) compared to Japan (25%). Survival patterns of 
chimpanzees in the present study will be useful for future investigation into 
potential causes of regional differences and cross-species comparisons.

© 2021 Che-Castaldo et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.11913
PMCID: PMC8364750
PMID: 34447626

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


640. Int J Food Sci. 2021 Aug 16;2021:6976357. doi: 10.1155/2021/6976357.
eCollection  2021.

Nutritional Content and Characteristics of Pumpkin Cream Soup with Tempeh 
Addition as Supplementary Food for Elderly.

Setiawan B(1), Aulia SS(2), Sinaga T(1), Sulaeman A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Nutrition, Faculty of Human Ecology, IPB University, 
16680, Indonesia.
(2)Nutrition Study Program, Graduate School, IPB University, 16680, Indonesia.

An increase in the number of elderly people indicates a higher life expectancy. 
However, this is also a new challenge since the elderly tends to have 
age-related diseases, thus the physical, psychological, and sensory disorders 
