the three decades of urbanization, warming climates and increased human mobility 
in much of the world. South-East Asia and South Asia remain as regions of 
concern, especially in conjunction with the Americas' swift rise in dengue 
burden.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
International Society of Travel Medicine. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jtm/taab146
PMID: 34510205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Med Health Care Philos. 2022 Mar;25(1):31-46. doi:
10.1007/s11019-021-10047-y.  Epub 2021 Sep 12.

Explaining rule of rescue obligations in healthcare allocation: allowing the 
patient to tell the right kind of story about their life.

Sinclair S(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Leeds, IDEA Centre, Leeds, UK. s.c.sinclair@leeds.ac.uk.

I consider various principles which might explain our intuitive obligation to 
rescue people from imminent death at great cost, even when the same resources 
could produce more benefit elsewhere. Our obligation to rescue is commonly 
explained in terms of the identifiability of the rescuee, but I reject this 
account. Instead, I offer two considerations which may come into play. Firstly, 
I explain the seeming importance of identifiability in terms of an intuitive 
obligation to prioritise life-extending interventions for people who face a high 
risk of an early death, and I explain this in turn with a fair innings-style 
principle which prioritises life-extending interventions for people expected to 
die young. However, this account is incomplete. It does not explain why we would 
devote the same resources to rescuing miners stuck down a mine even if they are 
elderly. We are averse to letting people die suddenly, or separated from friends 
and family. And so, secondly, I give a new account that explains this in terms 
of narrative considerations. We value life stories that follow certain patterns, 
classic patterns which are reflected in many popular myths and stories. We are 
particularly averse to depriving people of the opportunity to follow some such 
pattern as they approach death. This means allowing them to sort out their 
affairs, say goodbyes to family and friends, review their life, or come to terms 
with death itself. Such activities carry a lot of meaning as ways of closing our 
life story in the right way. So, for someone who has not been given much notice 
of their death, an extra month is worth much more than for other patients. 
Finally, I review the UK National Health Service's end of life premium, which 
gives priority to patients with short life expectancy. I suggest it falls short 
in terms of such considerations. For example, the NHS defines its timings in 
terms of how long the patient can expect to live as at the time of the treatment 
decision, whereas the timings should be specified in terms of time from 
diagnosis.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11019-021-10047-y
PMCID: PMC8435134
PMID: 34510362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2021 Sep 12;22(1):772. doi: 
10.1186/s12891-021-04669-9.

Comparison of in vivo knee kinematics before and after bicruciate-stabilized 
total knee arthroplasty during squatting.

Kiyohara M(1), Hamai S(2)(3), Gondo H(4), Higaki H(4), Ikebe S(5), Okazaki K(6), 
Nakashima Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, 
Kyushu University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka, 812-8582, Japan.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, 
Kyushu University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka, 812-8582, Japan. 
shamai0220@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Medical-Engineering Collaboration for Healthy Longevity, Kyushu 
University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka, 812-8582, Japan. 
shamai0220@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Life Science, Faculty of Life Science, Kyushu Sangyo 
University, 2-3-1 Matsugadai, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka, 813-8503, Japan.
(5)Department of Creative Engineering, National Institute of Technology, 
Kitakyushu College, 5- 20-1 Shii, Kokuraminami-ku, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka, 
802-0985, Japan.
(6)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Tokyo Women's Medical University, 8-1 
Kawada-cho, Shinjyuku-ku, 162-8666, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: No studies have directly evaluated kinematic changes during 
squatting before and after bicruciate-stabilized total knee arthroplasty 
(BCS-TKA) with the dual cam-post mechanism and asymmetric surfaces. This study 
investigated the effect of BCS-TKA on changes to pre- and postoperative skeletal 
knee kinematics, to identify factors associated with postoperative skeletal 
kinematic parameters.
METHODS: Seventeen knees in 17 patients were prospectively recruited before 
primary TKA for advanced medial knee osteoarthritis. Subjects underwent BCS-TKA 
and were evaluated more than 1 year postoperatively. In vivo dynamic skeletal 
knee kinematics were evaluated using periodic radiographic images collected 
during squatting to quantify the tibiofemoral functional extension/flexion 
angle, anteroposterior (AP) translation, and axial rotation angle using 
image-matching techniques. Rotational alignments of femoral and tibial 
components were measured postoperatively using computed tomography images.
RESULTS: The pre- and postoperative tibiofemoral functional extension/flexion 
angles during squatting were 12.2° ± 6.7°/100.1° ± 16.8° and 9.6° ± 8.6°/109.4° 
± 16.8°, respectively, with a significant difference in flexion angle (p < .05). 
Total AP translation was significantly larger postoperatively than 
preoperatively (10.8 mm ± 3.7 mm vs. 14.4 mm ± 4.2 mm, respectively; p < .05). 
The pre- and postoperative total rotation angles were 6.6° ± 3.0° and 6.4° ± 
3.7°, respectively, indicating no significant difference. The pre- and 
postoperative tibiofemoral functional flexion angles were significantly 
associated with each other (p = .0434, r = .49). The postoperative total 
rotation angle was significantly smaller when the total component rotational 
mismatch angle between the femoral and tibial components was above 5° vs. below 
5° (4.6° ± 2.7° vs. 8.3° ± 3.9°, respectively; p < .05).
CONCLUSIONS: BCS-TKA significantly increased the tibiofemoral functional flexion 
angles, with larger AP translation postoperatively. Both preoperative skeletal 
kinematics and surgical techniques affected the skeletal kinematics of the 
replaced knee. A total component rotational mismatch angle greater than 5° 
significantly decreased postoperative total knee rotation during squatting.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12891-021-04669-9
PMCID: PMC8436441
PMID: 34511113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


852. Heart Fail Clin. 2021 Oct;17(4):697-708. doi: 10.1016/j.hfc.2021.05.013.

Treatment of Advanced Heart Failure-Focus on Transplantation and Durable 
Mechanical Circulatory Support: What Does the Future Hold?

Guidetti F(1), Arrigo M(2), Frank M(3), Mikulicic F(3), Sokolski M(4), Aser 
R(5), Wilhelm MJ(5), Flammer AJ(3), Ruschitzka F(3), Winnik S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University Hospital of Zürich, Rämistrasse 100, 
Zürich 8091, Switzerland. Electronic address: federica.guidetti@usz.ch.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Triemli Hospital Zürich, 
Birmensdorferstrasse 497, 8063 Zürich, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Cardiology, University Hospital of Zürich, Rämistrasse 100, 
Zürich 8091, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Heart Diseases, Wroclaw Medical University, Borowska 213, 
50-556 Wroclaw, Poland.
(5)Department of Cardiac Surgery, University Hospital of Zürich, Rämistrasse 
100, Zürich 8091, Switzerland.

Heart transplantation (HTx) is the treatment of choice in patients with 
late-stage advanced heart failure (Advanced HF). Survival rates 1, 5, and 
10 years after transplantation are 87%, 77%, and 57%, respectively, and the 
average life expectancy is 9.16 years. However, because of the donor organ 
shortage, waiting times often exceed life expectancy, resulting in a waiting 
list mortality of around 20%. This review aims to provide an overview of current 
standard, recent advances, and future developments in the treatment of Advanced 
HF with a focus on long-term mechanical circulatory support and HTx.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hfc.2021.05.013
PMID: 34511216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure A.J. Flammer: fees from Alnylam, 
Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
Fresenius, Imedos Systems, Medtronic, MSD, Mundipharma, Novartis, Pierre Fabre, 
Pfizer, Roche, Schwabe Pharma. Vifor, and Zoll, as well as grant support by 
Novartis, AstraZeneca, and Berlin Heart unrelated to this article. S. Winnik: 
educational grant support and/or travel support and/or consulting/speaker fees 
from Abbott, Bayer, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Boston-Scientific, Cardinal Health, 
Daichi-Sankyo, Fehling Instruments, and Servier. F. Ruschitzka: related to the 
present work: none. Outside the submitted work: the Department of Cardiology 
(University Hospital of Zurich/University of Zurich) reports research, 
educational, and/or travel grants from Abbott, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bayer, B. 
Braun, Biosense Webster, Biosensors Europe AG, Biotronik, BMS, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Boston Scientific, Bracco, Cardinal Health Switzerland, Daiichi, 
Diatools, AG, Edwards Lifesciences, Guidant Europe NV (BS), Hamilton Health 
Sciences, Kaneka Corporation, Labormedizi-nisches Zentrum, Medtronic, MSD, 
Mundipharma Medical Company, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Orion, Pfizer, Quin-tiles 
Switzerland Sarl, Sanofi, Sarstedt AG, Servier, SIS Medical, SSS International 
Clinical Research, Terumo Deutschland, V-Wave, Vascular Medical, Vifor, Wissens 
Plus, and ZOLL. F. Ruschitzka has not received personal payments by 
pharmaceutical companies or device manufacturers in the last 3 years 
(remuneration for the time spent in activities, such as participation in 
steering committee member of clinical trials, were made directly to the 
University of Zurich). F. Ruschitzka is an unpaid member of the Pfizer Research 
Award selection committee in Switzerland. The research and educational grants do 
not impact on F. Ruschitzka’s personal remuneration. M.J. Wilhelm: travel fees 
and speaker honoraria from Berlin Heart.


853. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2022 Mar;30(3):360-371. doi: 
10.1016/j.jagp.2021.08.003. Epub 2021 Aug 16.

Long-Term Safety and Efficacy of Deutetrabenazine in Younger and Older Patients 
With Tardive Dyskinesia.

Sajatovic M(1), Finkbeiner S(2), Wilhelm A(2), Barkay H(3), Chaijale N(2), Gross 
N(2), Gordon MF(2).

Author information:
(1)University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center (MS), Case Western Reserve 
University School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH. Electronic address: 
martha.sajatovic@uhhospitals.org.
(2)Teva Pharmaceuticals (SF, AW, NCNG, MFG), West Chester, PA.
(3)Teva Pharmaceuticals (HB), Netanya, Israel.

OBJECTIVES: To assess long-term safety and efficacy of deutetrabenazine in 
younger (<55 years) and older (≥55 years) adult participants with tardive 
dyskinesia (TD).
DESIGN: Three-year, single-arm, open-label extension (OLE) study enrolling 
participants who completed the 12-week, pivotal ARM-TD or AIM-TD studies.
SETTING: Seventy-six centers in the United States and Europe.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 337 participants with TD (119 younger and 218 older).
INTERVENTION: Deutetrabenazine was initiated at 12 mg/day and titrated once 
weekly by 6 mg/day using a response-driven dosing regimen until adequate 
dyskinesia control was reached or a clinically significant adverse event 
occurred.
MEASUREMENTS: This post hoc analysis assessed change and percent change from 
baseline in total motor Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS) score, 
response rates for ≥50% AIMS improvement, Clinical Global Impression of Change 
(CGIC), Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC), and safety in younger and 
older participants with TD.
RESULTS: After 3 years of open-label treatment, mean deutetrabenazine dose was 
∼39.5 mg/day in both groups. Mean±SE changes from baseline in total motor AIMS 
score were -6.7 ± 0.62 and -6.5 ± 0.47 in younger and older participants, 
respectively (percent changes: -61.4% ± 4.10% and -54.6% ± 3.01%); 76% of 
younger and 62% of older participants achieved ≥50% AIMS response. Most younger 
and older participants achieved treatment success per CGIC (67% and 76%) and 
PGIC (64% and 63%). Deutetrabenazine was generally well tolerated in both 
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Deutetrabenazine treatment was associated with sustained 
improvements in total motor AIMS score, treatment success, and improved quality 
of life, and was well tolerated in younger and older adults with TD in this 
3-year OLE study.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jagp.2021.08.003
PMID: 34511333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Martha Sajatovic has 
received research funding from Nuromate, Otsuka, Alkermes, Janssen, 
International Society for Bipolar Disorders, National Institutes of Health 
(NIH), and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), as well as 
royalties from Springer Press, Johns Hopkins University Press, Oxford Press, and 
UpToDate. She is a consultant for Alkermes, Otsuka, Janssen, Neurocrine, Health 
Analytics, and Frontline Medical Communications, and is also involved in CME 
activities with the American Physician Institute, MCM Education, CMEology, 
Potomac Center for Medical Education, Global Medical Education, Creative 
Educational Concepts, and Psychopharmacology Institute. Stacy Finkbeiner, Amanda 
Wilhelm, Hadas Barkay, Nayla Chaijale, Nicholas Gross, and Mark Forrest Gordon 
are employees of Teva Pharmaceuticals. This study was funded by Teva 
Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd., Petach Tikva, Israel.


854. J Food Saf. 2021 Oct;41(5):e12917. doi: 10.1111/jfs.12917. Epub 2021 Jul 4.

Stability of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 in dairy products.

Norouzbeigi S(1), Yekta R(1), Vahid-Dastjerdi L(1), Keyvani H(2), Ranjbar MM(3), 
Shadnoush M(4), Khorshidian N(5), Yousefi M(6), Sohrabvandi S(5), Mortazavian 
AM(7).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Department of Food Science and Technology, 
Faculty of Nutrition and Food Technology, National Nutrition and Food Technology 
Research Institute Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences Tehran Iran.
(2)Department of Virology, School of Medicine Iran University of Medical 
Sciences Tehran Iran.
(3)Department of Virology Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute, 
Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO) Tehran Iran.
(4)Department of Clinical Nutrition, Faculty of Nutrition Sciences and Food 
Technology, National Nutrition and Food Technology Research Institute Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences Tehran Iran.
(5)Department of Food Technology Research, Faculty of Nutrition Sciences and 
Food Technology, National Nutrition and Food Technology Research Institute 
Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences Tehran Iran.
(6)Food Safety Research Center (Salt) Semnan University of Medical Sciences 
Semnan Iran.
(7)Department of Food Science and Technology, National Nutrition and Food 
Technology Research Institute, Faculty of Nutrition Sciences and Food Technology 
Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences Tehran Iran.

The present investigation was performed to determine the stability of severe 
acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) under several industrial 
processing situations in dairies, including pasteurization, freezing, and 
storage in acidic conditions. Ten treatments were selected, including 
high-temperature short-time (HTST)-pasteurized low-fat milk, low-temperature 
long-time-pasteurized low-fat milk, extended shelf life (ESL)-pasteurized 
low-fat milk, HTST-pasteurized full-fat milk, LTLT-pasteurized full-fat milk, 
ESL-pasteurized full-fat milk, pasteurized cream, ice cream frozen and stored at 
-20 or -80°C, and Doogh (as a fermented milk drink with initial pH < 3.5) 
refrigerated for 28 days. The viral particles were quantified by RT-PCR 
methodology. Besides, the virus infectivity was assessed through fifty-percent 
tissue culture infective dose (TCID50) assay. These products were seeded with a 
viral load of 5.65 log TCID50/mL as a simulated cross-contamination condition. 
Pasteurization techniques were sufficient for complete inactivation of the 
SARS-CoV-2 in the most dairy products, and 1.85 log TCID50/mL virus reduction in 
full-fat milk (fat content = 3.22%). Freezing (either -20°C or -80°C) did not 
result in a virally safe product within 60 days of storage. Storage at high 
acidic conditions (initial pH < 3.5) completely hampered the viral load at the 
end of 28 days of refrigerated storage. This research represents an important 
practical achievement that the routine HTST pasteurization in dairies was 
inadequate to completely inactivate the viral load in full-fat milk, probably 
due to the protective effect of fat content. Furthermore, freezing retain the 
virus infectivity in food products, and therefore, relevant contaminated foods 
may act as carriers for SARS-CoV-2.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1111/jfs.12917
PMCID: PMC8420126
PMID: 34511666

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no potential conflict of 
interest.


855. J Ethics. 2023;27(1):7-29. doi: 10.1007/s10892-021-09379-x. Epub 2021 Sep 4.

State Authority, Parental Authority, and the Rights of Mature Minors.

Tunick M(1).

Author information:
(1)Wilkes Honors College, FAU, 5353 Parkside Drive, Jupiter, FL 33458 USA.

When mature minors face a decision with important consequences, such as whether 
to undergo a risky but potentially life-saving medical procedure, who should 
decide? Relying on liberal political theory's account of the importance of 
decisional autonomy for adults, and given the scalar nature of the capacities 
needed to exercise decisional autonomy, I argue that mature minors with the 
requisite capacities and commitments have a right to decisional autonomy though 
they are not yet 18. I argue for this right using a 'balancing of interest' 
account of rights: the interest mature minors have in decisional autonomy 
outweighs their parents' interest in shaping their children as a means of 
'creative self-extension'. But I propose two limitations on this right: requests 
for waivers of the rule that one must be at least 18 to decide cannot be so 
numerous as to make adjudication impractical; and though a competent adult's 
voluntary decision to refuse medical treatment should generally be respected, 
the state may reject a mature minor's decision upon review by an indifferent 
judge of the minor's capacities and reasons. The judge reviews not the 
substantive merits or prudence of the decision, but whether the decision 
promotes the interest in decisional autonomy, by asking among other things 
whether the decision is the minor's own, is tethered to core commitments rather 
than based on arbitrary preferences, and could be regarded as reasonable to the 
minor's 'future self'.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2021.

DOI: 10.1007/s10892-021-09379-x
PMCID: PMC8418455
PMID: 34512117


856. Front Plant Sci. 2021 Aug 27;12:678580. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2021.678580. 
eCollection 2021.

Characterization and Dynamics of Intracellular Gene Transfer in Plastid Genomes 
of Viola (Violaceae) and Order Malpighiales.

Yang J(1), Park S(2), Gil HY(3), Pak JH(1)(4)(5), Kim SC(6).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for Dok-do and Ulleung-do Island, Kyungpook National 
University, Daegu, South Korea.
(2)Institute of Natural Science, Yeungnam University, Gyeongsan, South Korea.
(3)DMZ Botanic Garden, Korea National Arboretum, Yanggu, South Korea.
(4)Department of Biology, School of Life Science, BK21 FOUR KNU Creative 
BioResearch Group, Kyungpook National University, Daegu, South Korea.
(5)Department of Integrative Natural Sciences for the East Sea Rim, Kyungpook 
National University, Daegu, South Korea.
(6)Department of Biological Sciences, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, South 
Korea.

Functional gene transfer from organelles to the nucleus, known as intracellular 
gene transfer (IGT), is an ongoing process in flowering plants. The complete 
plastid genomes (plastomes) of two Ulleung island endemic violets, Viola 
ulleungdoensis and V. woosanensis, were characterized, revealing a lack of the 
plastid-encoded infA, rpl32, and rps16 genes. In addition, functional 
replacement of the three plastid-encoded genes in the nucleus was confirmed 
within the genus Viola and the order Malpighiales. Three strategies for the 
acquisition of a novel transit peptide for successful IGT were identified in the 
genus Viola. Nuclear INFA acquired a novel transit peptide with very low 
identity between these proteins, whereas the nuclear RPL32 gene acquired an 
existing transit peptide via fusion with the nuclear-encoded plastid-targeted 
SOD gene (Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase superfamily) as one exon, and translated 
both proteins in the cytosol using alternative mRNA splicing. Nuclear RPS16 
contains an internal transit peptide without an N-terminal extension. Gene loss 
or pseudogenization of the plastid-borne rpl32 and rps16 loci was inferred to 
occur in the common ancestor of the genus Viola based on an infrageneric 
phylogenetic framework in Korea. Although infA was lost in the common ancestor 
of the order Malpighiales, the rpl32 and rps16 genes were lost multiple times 
independently within the order. Our current study sheds additional light on 
plastid genome composition and IGT mechanisms in the violet genus and in the 
order Malpighiales.

Copyright © 2021 Yang, Park, Gil, Pak and Kim.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2021.678580
PMCID: PMC8429499
PMID: 34512682

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


857. Cureus. 2021 Jul 29;13(7):e16723. doi: 10.7759/cureus.16723. eCollection
2021  Jul.

Cardiovascular System Involvement in Cystic Fibrosis.

Shah PH(1), Lee JH(2), Salvi DJ(2), Rabbani R(3), Gavini DR(2), Hamid P(4).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine, Pediatrics, California Institute of Behavioral 
Neurosciences & Psychology (CIBNP), Fairfield, USA.
(2)Internal Medicine, California Institute of Behavioral Neurosciences & 
Psychology (CIBNP), Fairfield, USA.
(3)Nephrology, California Institute of Behavioral Neurosciences & Psychology 
(CIBNP), Fairfield, USA.
(4)Neurology, California Institute of Behavioral Neurosciences & Psychology 
(CIBNP), Fairfield, USA.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive disease primarily affecting the 
respiratory system and gastrointestinal system. The life expectancy of patients 
with CF has significantly improved due to medical advancement and the effective 
use of screening techniques. However, new challenges have emerged. Particularly 
those involving cardiovascular pathology. This study aims to provide a better 
understanding of the different mechanisms that cause cardiovascular 
complications in patients with CF, which would help find an efficient treatment 
that not only prolongs survival but also improves their quality of life. This 
study extensively reviews different theories such as right 
ventricular hypertrophy due to lung pathology, ventricular interdependence, the 
association of nutritional deficiencies and severe cystic fibrosis transmembrane 
conductance regulator (CFTR) genotypes with myocardial fibrosis, effects of 
hypoxia, recurrent infections, and systemic inflammation of the heart and blood 
vessels that explain the direct or indirect involvement of the cardiovascular 
system in CF. For this review, 258 articles were retrieved from PubMed and 
Google Scholar. Out of which, a total of 12 high-quality articles were selected 
using appropriate quality assessment tools and preferred reporting items for 
systematic reviews and meta-analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. The result of this 
study suggests that early detection of cardiovascular dysfunction can improve 
the survival rate of the patient. Furthermore, this study could aid future 
researchers in the exploration of various best screening modality techniques for 
the early detection of cardiovascular dysfunction.

Copyright © 2021, Shah et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.16723
PMCID: PMC8405250
PMID: 34513358

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


858. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2021 Aug 27;11:724569. doi: 
10.3389/fcimb.2021.724569. eCollection 2021.

An Innovative Protocol for Metaproteomic Analyses of Microbial Pathogens in 
Cystic Fibrosis Sputum.

Graf AC(1), Striesow J(2), Pané-Farré J(3), Sura T(4), Wurster M(5), Lalk M(5), 
Pieper DH(6), Becher D(4), Kahl BC(7), Riedel K(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Microbiology, Department of Microbial Physiology & Molecular 
Biology, University of Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.
(2)Research Group ZIK Plasmatis, Leibniz Institute for Plasma Science and 
Technology, Greifswald, Germany.
(3)Center for Synthetic Microbiology, Department of Chemistry, 
Philipps-University Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(4)Institute of Microbiology, Department of Microbial Proteomics, University of 
Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.
(5)Institute of Biochemistry, Department of Cellular Biochemistry & 
Metabolomics, University of Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.
(6)Research Group Microbial Interactions and Processes, Helmholtz Centre for 
Infection Research, Braunschweig, Germany.
(7)Institute of Medical Microbiology, University Hospital Münster, Münster, 
Germany.

Hallmarks of cystic fibrosis (CF) are increased viscosity of mucus and impaired 
mucociliary clearance within the airways due to mutations of the cystic fibrosis 
conductance regulator gene. This facilitates the colonization of the lung by 
microbial pathogens and the concomitant establishment of chronic infections 
leading to tissue damage, reduced lung function, and decreased life expectancy. 
Although the interplay between key CF pathogens plays a major role during 
disease progression, the pathophysiology of the microbial community in CF lungs 
remains poorly understood. Particular challenges in the analysis of the 
microbial population present in CF sputum is (I) the inhomogeneous, viscous, and 
slimy consistence of CF sputum, and (II) the high number of human proteins 
masking comparably low abundant microbial proteins. To address these challenges, 
we used 21 CF sputum samples to develop a reliable, reproducible and widely 
applicable protocol for sputum processing, microbial enrichment, cell 
disruption, protein extraction and subsequent metaproteomic analyses. As a proof 
of concept, we selected three sputum samples for detailed metaproteome analyses 
and complemented and validated metaproteome data by 16S sequencing, metabolomic 
as well as microscopic analyses. Applying our protocol, the number of bacterial 
proteins/protein groups increased from 199-425 to 392-868 in enriched samples 
compared to nonenriched controls. These early microbial metaproteome data 
suggest that the arginine deiminase pathway and multiple proteases and 
peptidases identified from various bacterial genera could so far be 
underappreciated in their contribution to the CF pathophysiology. By providing a 
standardized and effective protocol for sputum processing and microbial 
enrichment, our study represents an important basis for future studies 
investigating the physiology of microbial pathogens in CF in vivo - an important 
prerequisite for the development of novel antimicrobial therapies to combat 
chronic recurrent airway infection in CF.

Copyright © 2021 Graf, Striesow, Pané-Farré, Sura, Wurster, Lalk, Pieper, 
Becher, Kahl and Riedel.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2021.724569
PMCID: PMC8432295
PMID: 34513734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


859. Front Public Health. 2021 Aug 27;9:718978. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2021.718978. 
eCollection 2021.

The Burden of Obesity in Egypt.

Aboulghate M(1), Elaghoury A(2), Elebrashy I(3), Elkafrawy N(4), Elshishiney 
G(5), Abul-Magd E(6), Bassiouny E(7), Toaima D(7), Elezbawy B(8), Fasseeh 
A(8)(9), Abaza S(8), Vokó Z(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Cairo University, Cairo, Budapest, Egypt.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Alexandria University, Alexandria, Egypt.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Cairo University, Cairo, Egypt.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Endocrinology Unit, Menofia University, 
Menofia, Egypt.
(5)Ministry of Health and Population, Cairo, Egypt.
(6)Egyptian Health Care Management Society, Cairo, Egypt.
(7)Novo Nordisk, Cairo, Egypt.
(8)Syreon Middle East, Alexandria, Egypt.
(9)Department of Social Sciences, Eötvös Loránd University, Budapest, Hungary.
(10)Center for Health Technology Assessment, Semmelweis University, Budapest, 
Hungary.
(11)Syreon Research Institute, Budapest, Hungary.

Objective: Estimating the burden of obesity to society is an essential step in 
setting priorities and raising awareness. We aimed to assess the clinical, 
humanistic and economic burden of obesity for adults in Egypt. Methods: We used 
the population attributable fraction concept to estimate the burden. A 
non-systematic review was conducted to estimate the prevalence of obesity and 
its comorbidities in addition to the obesity attributable fraction. Patient 
numbers, direct healthcare costs, disability adjusted life years (DALYs) and 
attributable mortality were estimated. Results: Obesity is a major contributor 
to the development of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, obstructive sleep apnea 
and fatty liver, in addition to several serious diseases. The estimated annual 
deaths due to obesity was about 115 thousand (19.08% of the total estimated 
deaths in 2020). DALYs attributable to obesity may have reached 4 million in 
2020.The economic burden imposed by obesity is around 62 Billion Egyptian pounds 
annually. This value is the cost of treating diseases attributable to obesity in 
adults. Conclusions: Diseases attributable to obesity create a huge economic, 
humanistic, and clinical burden in Egypt. Reducing obesity could help 
dramatically decrease the catastrophic health effect of these diseases which in 
turn decreases mortality and DALYs lost.

Copyright © 2021 Aboulghate, Elaghoury, Elebrashy, Elkafrawy, Elshishiney, 
Abul-Magd, Bassiouny, Toaima, Elezbawy, Fasseeh, Abaza and Vokó.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2021.718978
PMCID: PMC8429929
PMID: 34513789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Syreon Middle East was a contractual partner of 
Novo Nordisk Egypt. AF, SA, and ZV are shareholders in Syreon Middle East. BE is 
an employee at Syreon Middle East. DT and EB are employees at Novo Nordisk 
Egypt. The remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in the 
absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as 
a potential conflict of interest.


860. Front Vet Sci. 2021 Aug 26;8:726731. doi: 10.3389/fvets.2021.726731.
eCollection  2021.

DNA Methyltransferases Contribute to Cold Tolerance in Ticks Dermacentor 
silvarum and Haemaphysalis longicornis (Acari: Ixodidae).

Agwunobi DO(1), Zhang M(1), Shi X(1), Zhang S(1), Zhang M(1), Wang T(1), Masoudi 
A(1), Yu Z(1), Liu J(1).

Author information:
(1)Hebei Key Laboratory of Animal Physiology, Biochemistry and Molecular 
Biology, College of Life Sciences, Hebei Normal University, Shijiazhuang, China.

DNA methylation, mediated by DNA methyltransferases (Dnmts), is a typical 
epigenetic process that plays an important role in affecting organism 
acclimatization and adaptation to environmental changes. However, information 
about Dnmts and their associations with the cold tolerance of ticks remains 
meager. Hence, in the present study, the Dnmts in important vector ticks 
Dermacentor silvarum and Haemaphysalis longicornis were cloned and identified, 
and their functions in cold response were further explored. Results showed that 
the length of DsDnmt and DsDnmt1 in D. silvarum, and HlDnmt1 and HlDnmt in H. 
longicornis were 1,284, 549, 1,500, and 1,613 bp, respectively. Bioinformatics 
in protein analysis revealed that they were all unstable hydrophilic proteins 
and were mainly characterized with Dcm (DNA cytosine methyltransferase domain), 
Dnmt1-RFD (DNA methyltransferase replication foci domain), zf-CXXC (zinc 
finger-CXXC domain), and BAH (Bromo adjacent homology domain). The relative 
expression of these Dnmts was reduced after cold treatment for 3 days (P < 
0.05), and increased with the extension of treatment. Western blot revealed that 
Dnmt1 decreased first and then increased significantly (P < 0.05) in both tick 
species, whereas other Dnmts fluctuated at varying degrees. RNA interference 
significantly silenced the genes Dnmts (P < 0.01), and mortality increased 
significantly (P < 0.05), when exposed to sub-lethal temperature, underscoring 
the important roles of Dnmts during the cold response of D. silvarum and H. 
longicornis. The above results lay the foundation for further understanding of 
the epigenetic regulation of DNA methylation in cold acclimatization and 
adaptation of ticks.

Copyright © 2021 Agwunobi, Zhang, Shi, Zhang, Zhang, Wang, Masoudi, Yu and Liu.

DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2021.726731
PMCID: PMC8426640
PMID: 34513977

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


861. Turk Patoloji Derg. 2021;37(3):239-248. doi: 10.5146/tjpath.2021.01545.

Prognostic and Predictive Significance of PD-L1 Expression in Non-Small Cell 
Lung Cancer Patients: A Single-Center Experience.

Arak H(1), Aytekin A, Canoz O, Ozkan M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Gaziantep University School of Medicine, 
GAZIANTEP, TURKEY.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the prognostic and predictive value of PD-L1 
expression in operated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients and to 
analyze its relationship with clinicopathological factors.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: A total of 90 patients with operable NSCLC were included in 
this retrospective single center study. Tumor blocks of patients were stained 
immunohistochemically with PD-L1 polyclonal antibody. When evaluated 
immunohistochemically and statistically, patients with tumor staining percentage 
of ≥5%, those with +2 and +3 membranous staining intensity, and those with ≥50% 
H-Score were considered positive. The relationship between PD-L1 expression 
status and clinicopathological features in addition to the prognostic effect of 
PD-L1 on survival were statistically analyzed.
RESULTS: The frequency of PD-L1 expression was 37%, 15% and 5% according to the 
staining percentage, staining intensity, and the H-Score, respectively. There 
was no significant relationship between PD-L1 expression and age, gender, 
smoking, tumor stage and histological subtype (p > 0.05). However, PD-L1 
expression was relatively higher in patients < 65 years of age, men, smokers, 
patients with advanced tumor stage, and squamous cell subtype. Based on the 
analysis of the H-Score, no significant difference was noted regarding 
disease-free survival time between PD-L1 positive and PD-L1 negative patients 
(median 20 [95% CI 1.2-38.7] months vs. median 27 [95% CI 17.5-36] months, 
p=0.208). However, overall survival time was significantly shorter in PD-L1 
positive compared to PD-L1 negative patients (median 24 months [95% CI 9.9-38] 
vs. median 48 months [95% CI 33.6-62.3], p=0.049).
CONCLUSION: In patients with high PD-L1 expression, the biological behavior of 
the cancer was more aggressive, and the life expectancy was shorter. PD-L1 
expression seems to be a poor prognostic marker in NSCLC patients.

DOI: 10.5146/tjpath.2021.01545
PMCID: PMC10510612
PMID: 34514576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors do not have any conflict of interest 
or financial disclosures to declare.


862. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2022 Jan;24(1):61-71. doi: 10.1111/dom.14548. Epub 2021
Sep  28.

Long-term effects of dapagliflozin plus saxagliptin versus glimepiride on a 
background of metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes: Results of a 104-week 
extension to a 52-week randomized, phase 3 study and liver fat MRI substudy.

Frías JP(1), Maaske J(2), Suchower L(3), Johansson L(4), Hockings PD(4)(5), 
Iqbal N(2), Wilding JPH(6).

Author information:
(1)National Research Institute, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(2)AstraZeneca, Gaithersburg, Maryland, USA.
(3)Kelly Services, Gaithersburg, Maryland, USA.
(4)Antaros Medical AB, BioVenture Hub, Mölndal, Sweden.
(5)MedTech West, Chalmers University of Technology, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(6)Obesity and Endocrinology Research Group, Department of Cardiovascular and 
Metabolic Medicine, Institute of Life Course and Medical Sciences, University of 
Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.

AIM: To report the results of a 104-week extension to a 52-week study in which 
dapagliflozin plus saxagliptin (DAPA+SAXA) improved glycaemic control, liver fat 
and metabolic variables compared with glimepiride (GLIM) in participants with 
type 2 diabetes (T2D) receiving background metformin.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This extension to a 52-week global, multicentre, 
parallel-group, active-controlled, double-blind study (NCT02419612) continued 
randomized participants (1:1) on DAPA+SAXA (10/5 mg) plus placebo, or GLIM 
(1-6 mg) plus placebo, once daily. Eligible participants were aged ≥18 years, 
had T2D (glycated haemoglobin [HbA1c] 58.5-91.3 mmol/mol [7.5%-10.5%]), and a 
body mass index of 20.0 to 45.0 kg/m2 , and were receiving metformin (MET; 
≥1500 mg/d). Key outcomes were: requirement for treatment intensification, based 
on HbA1c ≥53 mmol/mol (7%); achieving therapeutic glycaemic response; and 
changes in adipose tissue and liver fat on magnetic resonance imaging in a 
substudy.
RESULTS: Overall, 382 participants entered and 338 completed the 104-week 
extension period (MRI substudy, n = 82). The need for treatment intensification 
during the 156-week period was lower for DAPA+SAXA+MET (37.0%) than GLIM+MET 
(55.6%; hazard ratio 0.52, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.39-0.68; P < 0.001). 
At week 156, 21.4% of DAPA+SAXA+MET versus 11.7% of GLIM+MET participants 
achieved therapeutic glycaemic response (HbA1c <53 mmol/mol; odds ratio 2.1, 95% 
CI 1.23-3.42; P = 0.006). DAPA+SAXA+MET led to greater adjusted mean reductions 
from baseline in liver fat and visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue volumes 
versus GLIM+MET at week 122 (least-squares mean difference from GLIM+MET -4.89%, 
-0.41 L and -0.44 L, respectively; nominal P values ≤ 0.008). Safety was 
consistent with that of the monocomponents.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, glycaemic control, metabolic benefits and efficacy were 
better maintained with DAPA+SAXA+MET than with GLIM+MET in T2D.

© 2021 The Authors. Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/dom.14548
PMCID: PMC9293136
PMID: 34514692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.P.F. reports research support from Akero, 
AbbVie, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, BMS, Eli Lilly, Intercept, Janssen, 
Madrigal, Metacrine, Merck, NorthSea Therapeutics, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, 
Oramed, Pfizer, Poxel, Sanofi and Theracos; has served in advisory board and 
consulting roles for Akero, Altimmune, Axcella Health, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Coherus Therapeutics, Echosens, 89bio, Eli Lilly, Gilead, Intercept, Merck, Novo 
Nordisk and Sanofi; and has served on Speaker Bureaus for Eli Lilly, Merck and 
Sanofi. L.S. is an employee of Kelly Services for AstraZeneca, a former employee 
of AstraZeneca and a stockholder in AstraZeneca, Merck and Express Scripts. J.M. 
is an employee of and stockholder in AstraZeneca. N.I. is an employee of 
AstraZeneca. P.D.H. reports a research contract with AstraZeneca. L.J. is an 
employee of and stockholder in Antaros Medical. J.P.H.W. reports grants, 
personal fees and institution consultancy fees from AstraZeneca and Novo 
Nordisk; personal fees and institution consultancy fees from Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Janssen, Napp and Mundipharma; grants and personal fees from Takeda; 
institution consultancy fees from Astellas, Rhythm Pharmaceuticals, Sanofi and 
Lilly; and personal fees from Merck outside the submitted work.


863. Osteoporos Int. 2022 Jan;33(1):229-238. doi: 10.1007/s00198-021-06010-5.
Epub  2021 Sep 13.

Cost-effectiveness of 3 versus 6 years of zoledronic acid treatment before 
bisphosphonate holiday for women with osteoporosis.

Nayak S(1), Greenspan SL(2).

Author information:
(1)Berkeley Madonna, Inc., 1025 Peralta Ave, CA, 94706, Albany, USA. 
smita.nayak@berkeleymadonna.com.
(2)University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of recurrent periods of 3 versus 6 years of 
zoledronic acid treatment prior to 3-year bisphosphonate holidays for US 
postmenopausal women with osteoporosis and femoral neck BMD T-scores 
between - 2.5 and - 3.5. We found that cycles of 3 years of treatment followed 
by holidays is likely to be the more cost-effective option.
INTRODUCTION: We compared the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of cycles of 
3 years versus 6 years of zoledronic acid treatment prior to 3-year 
bisphosphonate holidays for US postmenopausal women with osteoporosis.
METHODS: We developed an individual-level state-transition microsimulation 
cost-effectiveness model to compare treatment strategies over the lifetime of 
recurrent periods of 3 years of zoledronic acid followed by 3-year holidays 
(zoledronic acid 3/3), recurrent periods of 6 years of zoledronic acid followed 
by 3-year holidays (zoledronic acid 6/3), and no zoledronic acid treatment for 
women with osteoporosis and femoral neck BMD T-scores between - 2.5 and - 3.5.
RESULTS: Base-case analysis and all key parameter sensitivity analysis findings 
for every treatment initiation age evaluated (50, 60, 70, and 80) revealed that 
zoledronic acid 3/3 was consistently the most cost-effective strategy, assuming 
a willingness-to-pay of $100,000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). In 
general, the zoledronic acid 3/3 and 6/3 strategies were relatively close in 
effectiveness (QALYs) over the lifetime; however, lifetime direct health care 
costs were on average approximately $2000 lower for the 3/3 strategy. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis results revealed that the zoledronic acid 3/3 
strategy was favored in greater than 70% of the iterations for a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $100,000/QALY for all treatment initiation ages 
evaluated.
CONCLUSIONS: After 3 years of zoledronic acid treatment for postmenopausal women 
with osteoporosis and femoral neck BMD T-scores between - 2.5 and - 3.5, taking 
3-year holidays before restarting another treatment cycle is likely to be more 
cost-effective over the lifetime than cycles of 6 years of treatment prior to 
3-year holidays.

© 2021. International Osteoporosis Foundation and National Osteoporosis 
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-021-06010-5
PMID: 34515818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Arch Osteoporos. 2021 Sep 13;16(1):132. doi: 10.1007/s11657-021-00988-5.

Predictive factors of non-treatment and non-persistence to osteoporosis 
medication after fragility hip fractures at 3 years after discharge: a 
multicentre, prospective cohort study in the northern Kyushu district of Japan.

Kanahori M(#)(1), Matsumoto Y(#)(2), Fujiwara T(1), Kimura A(1), Tsutsui T(1), 
Arisumi S(1), Oyamada A(3), Ohishi M(4), Ikuta K(5), Tsuchiya K(6), Tayama N(7), 
Tomari S(8), Miyahara H(9), Mae T(10), Hara T(11), Saito T(12), Arizono T(13), 
Kaji K(14), Mawatari T(15), Fujiwara M(16), Takasaki M(17), Shin K(18), Ninomiya 
K(19), Nakaie K(20), Antoku Y(21), Iwamoto Y(14), Nakashima Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Graduate School of Medical Science, Kyushu 
University, Fukuoka, Japan.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Graduate School of Medical Science, Kyushu 
University, Fukuoka, Japan. ymatsu@ortho.med.kyushu-u.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Saga Handicapped Children's Hospital, 
Saga, Japan.
(4)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Chihaya Hospital, Fukuoka, Japan.
(5)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Karatsu Red Cross Hospital, Saga, Japan.
(6)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Japan Community Healthcare Organization, 
Kyushu Hospital, Fukuoka, Japan.
(7)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Steel Memorial Yawata Hospital, Fukuoka, 
Japan.
(8)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Japanese Red Cross Fukuoka Hospital, 
Fukuoka, Japan.
(9)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, National Hospital Organization Kyushu 
Medical Centre, Fukuoka, Japan.
(10)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Saga-Ken Medical Centre Koseikan, Saga, 
Japan.
(11)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Aso Iizuka Hospital, Fukuoka, Japan.
(12)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Fukuoka City Hospital, Fukuoka, Japan.
(13)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Kyushu Central Hospital of the Mutual Aid 
Association of Public School Teachers, Fukuoka, Japan.
(14)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Kyushu Rosai Hospital, Fukuoka, Japan.
(15)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hamanomachi Hospital, Fukuoka, Japan.
(16)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Sada Hospital, Fukuoka, Japan.
(17)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Harasanshin Hospital, Fukuoka, Japan.
(18)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Saiseikai Yahata General Hospital, 
Fukuoka, Japan.
(19)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Koga Hospital 21, Fukuoka, Japan.
(20)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, National Hospital Organization 
Fukuoka-Higashi Medical Centre, Fukuoka, Japan.
(21)Faculty of Medicine, Hospital Informatic Centre, Oita University, Oita, 
Japan.
(#)Contributed equally

We examined osteoporosis medication use and factors affecting persistence in 497 
patients with fragility hip fractures. Only 25.5% of patients received 
continuous medication for 3 years, and 44.1% of patients received no treatment. 
Low Barthel index at discharge was a risk factor for both non-treatment and 
non-persistence to osteoporosis medication.
PURPOSE: Fragility hip fractures (FHF) caused by osteoporosis decrease the 
quality of life and worsen life expectancy. Use of osteoporosis medication may 
be an efficient method in the prevention of secondary FHF. However, previous 
studies have reported low rates of osteoporosis medication and persistence after 
FHF. This study aimed to evaluate osteoporosis medication use and factors 
affecting persistence in patients with FHF in the northern Kyushu area of Japan.
METHODS: A total of 497 FHF patients aged ≥ 60 years with a 3-year follow-up 
were included. We prospectively collected data from questionnaires sent every 
6 months regarding compliance with osteoporosis medication. We compared baseline 
characteristics among three groups: no treatment (NT), no persistence (NP), and 
persistence (P), and conducted multivariable regression models to determine 
covariates associated with non-treatment (NT vs. NP/P) and non-persistence (NP 
vs. P).
RESULTS: There were 219 (44.1%), 151 (30.4%), and 127 (25.5%) patients in the 
NT, NP, and P groups, respectively. Factors associated with non-treatment were 
male sex, chronic kidney disease, no previous osteoporosis treatment, and low 
Barthel index (BI) at discharge. The only factor associated with non-persistence 
was a low BI at discharge. Factors associated with a low BI at discharge were 
male sex, older age, trochanteric fracture, and surgical delay.
CONCLUSION: Low BI at discharge is a risk factor for both non-treatment and 
non-persistence to osteoporosis medication. Therefore, appropriate interventions 
to improve BI may result in persistence to osteoporosis medication.

© 2021. International Osteoporosis Foundation and National Osteoporosis 
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1007/s11657-021-00988-5
PMID: 34515859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. J Asthma. 2022 Oct;59(10):2008-2015. doi: 10.1080/02770903.2021.1980586.
Epub  2021 Sep 22.

Cost-utility of azithromycin in patients with severe asthma.

Buendía JA(1), Patiño DG(2), Feliciano-Alfonso JE(3).

Author information:
(1)Research group in Pharmacology and Toxicology" INFARTO". Department of 
Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Hospital Infantil Concejo de Medellín, Medellín, 
Colombia.
(3)Departamento de Medicina Interna, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Nacional 
de Colombia, Bogotá, Colombia.

BACKGROUND: An important proportion of asthma patients remain uncontrolled 
despite the use of inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta-agonists. Some 
add-on therapies, like azithromycin, have been recommended for this subgroup of 
patients. The purpose of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
azithromycin as an add-on therapy to ICS + LABA for patients with severe asthma.
METHODS: A probabilistic Markov model was created to estimate the cost and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) of patients with severe asthma in Colombia. 
The total costs and QALYS of two interventions, including standard therapy 
(ICS + LABA), and add-on therapy with azithromycin, were calculated over a 
lifetime horizon. Multiple sensitivity analyses were conducted. 
Cost-effectiveness was evaluated at a willingness-to-pay value of $19,000.
RESULTS: The model suggests a potential gain of 0.037 QALYs per patient per year 
on azithromycin, with a difference of US $718 in favor of azithromycin, showing 
dominance with respect to SOC. A position of dominance negates the need to 
calculate an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. In the deterministic 
sensitivity analyses, our base-case results were robust to variations in all 
assumptions and parameters.
CONCLUSION: Add-on therapy with azithromycin was found to be cost-effective when 
added to usual care in patients who remain uncontrolled despite treatment with 
medium or high-dose ICS/LABA.

DOI: 10.1080/02770903.2021.1980586
PMID: 34516322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Orv Hetil. 2021 Sep 12;162(37):1485-1493. doi: 10.1556/650.2021.32171.

[Right ventricular adaptation in pulmonary arterial hypertension].

[Article in Hungarian]

Csósza G(1), Lázár Z(1), Rozgonyi Z(2), Vágó H(3), Losonczy G(1), Müller V(1), 
Karlócai K(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Semmelweis Egyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar, Pulmonológiai Klinika, 
Budapest, Tömő utca 25-29., 1083.
(2)2 Semmelweis Egyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar, Aneszteziológiai és 
Intenzív Terápiás Klinika, Budapest.
(3)3 Semmelweis Egyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar, Városmajori Szív- és 
Érgyógyászati Klinika, Budapest.

Összefoglaló. Pulmonalis artériás hypertoniában (PAH) a tüdőartériák falának 
átépülése az elsődleges patofiziológiai eltérés, amely a pulmonalis vascularis 
rezisztencia (PVR) és a pulmonalis nyomás progresszív emelkedéséhez vezet. Ez a 
nyomásemelkedés a jobb szívfélben az afterload fokozódásához vezet, ami hosszú 
távon jobbkamra-diszfunkciót és jobbszívfél-elégtelenséget okoz. Az egyre 
növekvő PVR mellett kialakuló cardialis adaptáció pontos patomechanizmusa nem 
ismert, de egyes betegek esetén nagyon eltérő lehet az adaptáció mértéke és 
kialakulásának üteme. A kialakuló myocardium-hypertrophia és -dilatáció mértéke 
nagyban függ a PAH etiológiájától, de emellett egyéb tényezők - mint az életkor, 
a neurohumoralis aktiváció mértéke, genetikai és epigenetikai faktorok - is 
jelentősen befolyásolják. Minél kevésbé képes a jobb kamra megtartani funkcióját 
az egyre növekvő ellenállással szemben, annál gyorsabban alakul ki a 
jobbszívfél-elégtelenség, és annál rosszabbak a beteg életkilátásai. Ezen 
folyamatok jobb megismerése klinikai jelentőséggel bír, mivel a jobb kamrai 
adaptáció elősegítése javíthatja a betegség kimenetelét. Orv Hetil. 2021; 
162(37): 1485-1493. Summary. Remodeling of the pulmonary artery wall is the 
primary pathophysiological abnormality in pulmonary arterial hypertension 
leading to a progressive increase in pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) and 
pulmonary arterial pressure. The elevation of pressure increases the afterload 
in the right heart, causing right ventricular dysfunction and right heart 
failure in the long term. The exact pathomechanism of cardiac adaptation with 
increasing PVR is unknown, but the degree and rate of adaptation may be very 
different in patients suffering from pulmonary hypertension. The development of 
myocardial hypertrophy and dilatation is highly dependent on the etiology of 
pulmonary hypertension, but is also significantly influenced by other factors 
such as age, degree of neurohumoral activation, and genetic and epigenetic 
factors. Right heart failure develops and life expectancy shortens if the right 
ventricle is unable to maintain its function in the face of increasing 
resistance. Orv Hetil. 2021; 162(37): 1485-1493.

DOI: 10.1556/650.2021.32171
PMID: 34516394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. J Econ Entomol. 2021 Oct 13;114(5):1950-1974. doi: 10.1093/jee/toab158.

Drosophila suzukii (Diptera: Drosophilidae): A Decade of Research Towards a 
Sustainable Integrated Pest Management Program.

Tait G(1), Mermer S(1), Stockton D(2), Lee J(3), Avosani S(4)(5), Abrieux A(6), 
Anfora G(5)(7), Beers E(8), Biondi A(9), Burrack H(10), Cha D(2), Chiu JC(6), 
Choi MY(3), Cloonan K(11), Crava CM(12), Daane KM(13)(14), Dalton DT(15), 
Diepenbrock L(16), Fanning P(17), Ganjisaffar F(6), Gómez MI(18), Gut L(19), 
Grassi A(20), Hamby K(21), Hoelmer KA(22), Ioriatti C(20), Isaacs R(19), Klick 
J(23), Kraft L(10), Loeb G(24), Rossi-Stacconi MV(5), Nieri R(4)(5), Pfab F(25), 
Puppato S(20), Rendon D(1), Renkema J(26), Rodriguez-Saona C(27), Rogers M(28), 
Sassù F(29)(30), Schöneberg T(21), Scott MJ(10), Seagraves M(23), Sial A(31), 
Van Timmeren S(19), Wallingford A(32), Wang X(22), Yeh DA(17), Zalom FG(6), 
Walton VM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Horticulture, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR, USA.
(2)USDA-ARS Daniel K. Inouye U.S. Pacific Basin Agricultural Research Center, 
Hilo, HI, USA.
(3)USDA-ARS Horticultural Crops Research Unit, Corvallis, OR, USA.
(4)Department of Civil, Environmental and Mechanical Engineering, University of 
Trento, Trento, Italy.
(5)Research and Innovation Centre, Fondazione Edmund Mach, San Michele 
all'Adige, Italy.
(6)Department of Entomology and Nematology, University of California, Davis, CA, 
USA.
