INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): RR2-10.2147/SHTT.S233130.

©Henk Verloo, Adrien Lorette, Joëlle Rosselet Amoussou, Estelle Gillès de 
Pélichy, Alcina Matos Queirós, Armin von Gunten, Elodie Perruchoud. Originally 
published in JMIR Aging (https://aging.jmir.org), 19.08.2021.

DOI: 10.2196/29031
PMCID: PMC8414306
PMID: 34420916

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


562. Eur J Popul. 2021 Feb 23;37(3):523-550. doi: 10.1007/s10680-021-09577-1. 
eCollection 2021 Jul.

Progress of Inequality in Age at Death in India: Role of Adult Mortality.

Yadav S(1).

Author information:
(1)International Institute for Population Sciences, IIPS, Room no. 28, Academic 
Building, Govandi Station Road, Deonar, Mumbai, 400088 India.

India has seen a reduction in infant and child mortality rates for both the 
sexes since the early 1980s. However, a decline in mortality at adult ages is 
marked by significant differences in the subgroups of sex and regions. This 
study assesses the progress of inequality in age at death with the advances in 
mortality transition during 36 years period between 1981-1985 and 2012-2016 in 
India, using the Gini coefficients at the age of zero (G 0 ). The Gini 
coefficients show that in the mid-2000s, women outpaced men in G 0 . The 
reduction in inequality in age at death is a manifestation of the process of 
homogeneity in mortality. The low G 0 is concomitant of high life expectancy at 
birth (e 0 ) in India. The results show the dominance of adult mortality over 
child mortality in the medium-mortality and low-mortality regimes. Varying adult 
mortality in the subgroups of sex and variance in the mortality levels of 
regions are the predominant factors for the variation in inequality in age at 
death. By lowering of the mortality rates in the age group of 15-29 years, India 
can achieve a high e 0 that appears at high demographic development and the 
narrow sex differentials in e 0 and G 0 in a short time. Men in the age group of 
15-29 years are the most vulnerable subgroup with respect to mortality. There is 
an immediate need for health policies in India to prioritise the aversion of 
premature deaths in men aged 15-29 years.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. part of 
Springer Nature 2021.

DOI: 10.1007/s10680-021-09577-1
PMCID: PMC8333177
PMID: 34421445

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe author declares that 
they have no conflict of interest.


563. Eur J Popul. 2021 May 10;37(3):697-725. doi: 10.1007/s10680-021-09585-1. 
eCollection 2021 Jul.

Differences in Life Expectancy Between Self-Employed Workers and Paid Employees 
when Retirement Pensioners: Evidence from Spanish Social Security Records.

Pérez-Salamero González JM(1), Regúlez-Castillo M(2), Vidal-Meliá C(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Financial Economics and Actuarial Science, University of 
Valencia, Avenida de Los Naranjos S.N., 46022 Valencia, Spain.
(2)Department of Quantitative Methods, University of the Basque Country 
(UPV/EHU), Avda Lehendakari Aguirre 84, 48015 Bilbao, Spain.
(3)Instituto Complutense de Análisis Económico, Complutense University of 
Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Centre of Excellence in Population Ageing Research (CEPAR), UNSW, Sydney, 
Australia.

The aim of this paper is to examine differences in life expectancy (LE) between 
self-employed (SE) and paid employee (PE) workers when they become retirement 
pensioners, looking at levels of pension income using administrative data from 
Spanish social security records. We draw on the Continuous Sample of Working 
Lives (CSWL) to quantify changes in total life expectancy at age 65 (LE65) among 
retired men over the longest possible period covered by this data source: 
2005-2018. These changes are broken down by pension regime and initial pension 
income level for three periods. The literature presents mixed evidence, even for 
the same country-for Japan and Italy, for example-with some studies pointing to 
higher life expectancy for SE than for PE retirement pensioners while others 
argue the opposite. In Spain, LE65 is slightly higher for the SE than for PE 
workers when retirement pensioners. For 2005-2010, a gap in life expectancy of 
0.23 years between SE and PE retirement pensioners is observed. This widens to 
0.55 years for 2014-2018. A similar trend can be seen if pension income groups 
are considered. For 2005-2010, the gap in LE65 between pensioners in the lowest 
and highest income groups is 1.20 years. This widens over time and reaches 
1.51 years for 2014-2018. Although these differences are relatively small, they 
are statistically significant. According to our research, the implications for 
policy on social security are evident: differences in life expectancy by 
socioeconomic status and pension regime should be taken into account for a 
variety of issues involving social security schemes. These include establishing 
the age of eligibility for retirement pensions and early access to benefits, 
computing the annuity factors used to determine initial retirement benefits and 
valuing the liabilities taken on for retirement pensioners.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2021.

DOI: 10.1007/s10680-021-09585-1
PMCID: PMC8333179
PMID: 34421450

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare they 
have no financial interests. The funders had no role in the design of the study; 
in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the 
manuscript, or in the decision to publish the results.


564. Front Psychol. 2021 Aug 6;12:708361. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2021.708361.
eCollection  2021.

Cognition-Mortality Associations Are More Pronounced When Estimated Jointly in 
Longitudinal and Time-to-Event Models.

Aichele S(1)(2), Cekic S(2), Rabbitt P(3), Ghisletta P(2)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Development and Family Studies, Colorado State 
University, Fort Collins, CO, United States.
(2)Faculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences, University of Geneva, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(3)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford, Oxford, United 
Kingdom.
(4)Swiss National Center of Competence in Research LIVES-Overcoming 
Vulnerability: Life Course Perspectives, Universities of Lausanne and of Geneva, 
Geneva, Switzerland.
(5)Swiss Distance University Institute, Brig, Switzerland.

With aging populations worldwide, there is growing interest in links between 
cognitive decline and elevated mortality risk-and, by extension, analytic 
approaches to further clarify these associations. Toward this end, some 
researchers have compared cognitive trajectories of survivors vs. decedents 
while others have examined longitudinal changes in cognition as predictive of 
mortality risk. A two-stage modeling framework is typically used in this latter 
approach; however, several recent studies have used joint longitudinal-survival 
modeling (i.e., estimating longitudinal change in cognition conditionally on 
mortality risk, and vice versa). Methodological differences inherent to these 
approaches may influence estimates of cognitive decline and cognition-mortality 
associations. These effects may vary across cognitive domains insofar as changes 
in broad fluid and crystallized abilities are differentially sensitive to aging 
and mortality risk. We compared these analytic approaches as applied to data 
from a large-sample, repeated-measures study of older adults (N = 5,954; ages 
50-87 years at assessment; 4,453 deceased at last census). Cognitive 
trajectories indicated worse performance in decedents and when estimated jointly 
with mortality risk, but this was attenuated after adjustment for health-related 
covariates. Better cognitive performance predicted lower mortality risk, and, 
importantly, cognition-mortality associations were more pronounced when 
estimated in joint models. Associations between mortality risk and crystallized 
abilities only emerged under joint estimation. This may have important 
implications for cognitive reserve, which posits that knowledge and skills 
considered well-preserved in later life (i.e., crystallized abilities) may 
compensate for declines in abilities more prone to neurodegeneration, such as 
recall memory and problem solving. Joint longitudinal-survival models thus 
appear to be important (and currently underutilized) for research in cognitive 
epidemiology.

Copyright © 2021 Aichele, Cekic, Rabbitt and Ghisletta.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2021.708361
PMCID: PMC8378533
PMID: 34421759

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


565. Front Neurol. 2021 Aug 5;12:698460. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2021.698460.
eCollection  2021.

Effects of Combined Endurance and Resistance Training in Women With Multiple 
Sclerosis: A Randomized Controlled Study.

Correale L(1), Buzzachera CF(1), Liberali G(1), Codrons E(1), Mallucci G(2), 
Vandoni M(3), Montomoli C(1), Bergamaschi R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Experimental and Forensic Medicine, University 
of Pavia, Pavia, Italy.
(2)Inter-Department Multiple Sclerosis Research Centre, National Neurological 
Institute Casimiro Mondino, Pavia, Italy.
(3)Laboratory of Adapted Motor Activity, Department of Public Health, 
Experimental & Forensic Medicine, University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy.

Purpose: To test the hypothesis that combined resistance and endurance training 
would improve muscle strength, fatigue, depression, and quality of life in 
persons with MS. Methods: Twenty-seven women with MS were randomly assigned to 
either control (CON, n = 13) or the experimental (EXP, n = 14) group. The 
participants in the EXP group trained twice a week for 12 weeks, followed by 12 
weeks of detraining. Both CON and EXP groups were tested before and after 12 
weeks of the intervention period, as well as 12 weeks after training cessation 
(follow-up), where measures of muscle strength, fatigue, depression, and quality 
of life were evaluated. Results: There were significant changes in maximal 
voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC), 1RM leg extension, and 1RM chest press 
following the intervention period in the EXP group (P < 0.05), but not in the 
CON group (P > 0.05). These changes persisted after 12 weeks of detraining. 
Similar findings were found for fatigue, depression, and physical and mental 
composites of quality of life. Conclusion: These results suggest that combined 
exercise training, at a minimum, prevents the disease-related deterioration of 
muscular performance and quality of life and well-being in persons with MS.

Copyright © 2021 Correale, Buzzachera, Liberali, Codrons, Mallucci, Vandoni, 
Montomoli and Bergamaschi.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2021.698460
PMCID: PMC8374042
PMID: 34421801

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


566. Ont Health Technol Assess Ser. 2021 Jul 21;21(10):1-42. eCollection 2021.

iStent for Adults With Glaucoma: A Health Technology Assessment.

Ontario Health (Quality).

Collaborators: Lambrinos A, Falk L, Wells D, Higgins C.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is a condition that causes progressive damage to the optic 
nerve, which can lead to visual impairment and potentially to irreversible 
blindness. The iStent and iStent inject are devices implanted in the eye during 
a type of minimally invasive glaucoma surgery (MIGS) to reduce intraocular 
pressure by increasing trabecular outflow by bypassing the trabecular meshwork. 
We summarized two health technology assessments and additional recent 
publications that evaluated iStent for people with glaucoma, including 
effectiveness, safety, cost-effectiveness, the budget impact of publicly funding 
iStent, and patient preferences and values.
METHODS: We summarized two health technology assessments recently completed in 
Canada. In addition, we summarized new evidence we identified through expert 
consultation and scoping of the literature. We reported the quality of the body 
of clinical evidence as reported by the included health technology assessments, 
according to the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and 
Evaluation (GRADE) Working Group criteria.
RESULTS: Comparing iStent with pharmacotherapy, there may be no difference in 
comparative clinical effectiveness (GRADE: Very low to Low). There was 
uncertainty around the comparative clinical effectiveness of iStent compared 
with filtration surgery and of iStent plus cataract surgery compared with a 
different MIGS procedure plus cataract surgery (GRADE: Very low). iStent with 
cataract surgery may improve comparative clinical effectiveness (reduced 
intraocular pressure and number of medications) compared with cataract surgery 
alone (GRADE: Low).iStent may be cost-effective compared with pharmacotherapy 
(incremental cost-effectiveness ratios [ICER]: $14,120-$25,596/quality-adjusted 
life-year [QALY]; 60%-76% and 65%-100% of iterations cost-effective at 
willingness-to-pay values of $50,000/QALY and $100,000/QALY, respectively). 
iStent with cataract surgery may not be cost-effective compared with cataract 
surgery alone (ICERs: $108,934-$112,380/QALY; 17%-46% and 46%-68% of iterations 
cost-effective at willingness-to-pay values of $50,000/QALY and $100,000/QALY, 
respectively). iStent may not be cost-effective compared with filtration surgery 
(iStent was less effective and more expensive than filtration surgery). These 
estimates are influenced by the long-term effectiveness of iStent.The iStent 
device costs approximately $1,250 (for two iStent or iStent inject devices). 
Based on a recent analysis by Quebec's Institut national d'excellence en santé 
et en services sociaux (INESSS) and our previous analysis on MIGS, publicly 
funding iStent may reduce some spending on glaucoma medication but, overall, 
iStent is likely to lead to additional costs for the public health care system. 
In Ontario, publicly funding MIGS over 5 years is estimated to cost a total of 
$40 million if uptake is slow (25,000 people) and $199 million, if uptake is 
fast (100,000 people). In Quebec, publicly funding iStent over 3 years is 
estimated to cost a total of $29 million (15,000 people).People with glaucoma 
with whom we spoke reported that pharmacotherapy can be challenging and that 
they relied on trust in their physician to determine if surgery was necessary to 
avoid potential consequences of glaucoma, such as blindness. Those who received 
MIGS procedures found it beneficial, with minimal side effects and recovery 
time. However, they were often unaware what type of MIGS procedure they 
received, so they could not specifically comment on iStent.
CONCLUSIONS: We are uncertain about the comparative clinical effectiveness of 
iStent compared with filtration surgery, as well as iStent combined with 
cataract surgery versus other MIGS procedures combined with cataract surgery. 
There may be no difference in the comparative clinical effectiveness of iStent 
compared with pharmacotherapy. iStent combined with cataract surgery may improve 
clinical effectiveness (mainly intraocular pressure and number of medications) 
when compared with cataract surgery alone.In some instances, iStent may be 
cost-effective (i.e., when compared with pharmacotherapy) but in other instances 
it may not be cost-effective (i.e., when iStent combined with cataract surgery 
is compared with cataract surgery alone or when iStent is compared with 
filtration surgery). Publicly funding iStent may reduce some spending on 
pharmacotherapy but, overall, is likely to lead to additional costs for the 
public health system. People with glaucoma reported that pharmacotherapy 
adherence could be challenging, and that avoiding blindness was their main 
priority for treatment. Experiences with MIGS procedures were positive, although 
patients were unable to comment on iStent specifically.

Copyright © Queen's Printer for Ontario, 2021.

PMCID: PMC8354382
PMID: 34422143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. J Gastrointest Oncol. 2021 Jul;12(Suppl 2):S374-S386. doi:
10.21037/jgo-20-118.

Global trends in pancreas cancer among Asia-Pacific population.

Ranganath R(1), Chu Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, 
Shreveport, LA, USA.

The incidence of pancreatic cancer is rising. Understanding trends of pancreatic 
cancer is crucial prior to putting policies and interventions in place. 
Countries with a high human development index (HDI) have a higher incidence, 
prevalence and mortality due to pancreatic cancer. This global trend is 
replicated in the Asia-Pacific countries with high HDI having higher incidence, 
prevalence and mortality due to pancreatic cancer. The incidence of pancreatic 
cancer is rising in the Asia-Pacific population as life expectancy increases 
with a rising HDI. Lack of good cancer registries has resulted in under 
reporting of pancreatic cancer in developing countries in the Asia-Pacific 
region. The mortality still remains high as in the Western world as most 
pancreatic cancers are diagnosed in an advanced stage of the disease due to 
non-availability of cost-effective screening tools with few patients receiving 
definitive care. Smoking, alcohol consumption, poor diet and obesity are 
significant modifiable risk factors contributing to the development of 
pancreatic cancer. Population based screening for pancreatic cancer is not 
cost-effective. Identification of hereditary and genetic factors in the 
Asia-Pacific population can help in targeted screening of high-risk individuals. 
Policies and interventions aimed at primary prevention have the greatest 
potential to be cost-effective yet impactful and reduce the disease burden.

2021 Journal of Gastrointestinal Oncology. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/jgo-20-118
PMCID: PMC8343088
PMID: 34422401

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: Both authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
http://dx.doi.org/10.21037/jgo-20-118). The series “Global GI Malignancies” was 
commissioned by the editorial office without any funding or sponsorship. QC 
served as the unpaid Guest Editor of the series. The authors have no other 
conflicts of interest to declare.


568. J Gastrointest Oncol. 2021 Jul;12(Suppl 2):S387-S398. doi: 
10.21037/jgo-2019-gi-06.

Implications of the growing incidence of global colorectal cancer.

Vabi BW(1), Gibbs JF(2), Parker GS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, WellSpan York Hospital, York, PA, USA.
(2)Department of Surgery, Hackensack Meridian School of Medicine at Seton Hall 
University, Nutley, NJ, USA.

The expanding worldwide burden of colorectal cancer (CRC) is a significant 
public health issue. Understanding the shift in the geo-demographic, 
socioeconomic, environmental, and biogenetic distribution of CRC is paramount. 
The Human Development Index (HDI) measuring life expectancy, education, and 
gross national income is a composite index comparing health outcomes between 
countries. This has been shown to be a useful comparison tool in measuring the 
health dimension among high, middle, and low-income countries. CRC has a wide 
global distribution in incidence and mortality with majority of cases occurring 
in countries with a high or very high HDI. However, in developing countries and 
in those undergoing rapid socioeconomic growth, there has also been a marked 
rise in CRC rates as well. This pattern is noted globally and seems to correlate 
with increase in a country's specific HDI. Additionally, another unique pattern 
of CRC incidence has emerged with more cancers being diagnosed in adults younger 
than 50 years old. Further investigation is needed to determine CRC risks 
reduction and implementation of primary prevention and early detection 
strategies within different country specific healthcare systems. Globally, 
improvement in healthcare equality, access to medical care and screening for CRC 
particularly in resource-limited (low HDI) countries is essential.

2021 Journal of Gastrointestinal Oncology. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/jgo-2019-gi-06
PMCID: PMC8343084
PMID: 34422402

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
http://dx.doi.org/10.21037/jgo-2019-gi-06). The series “Global GI Malignancies” 
was commissioned by the editorial office without any funding or sponsorship. 
John F Gibbs served as the unpaid Guest Editor of the series and serves as an 
unpaid editorial board member of Journal of Gastrointestinal Oncology from Jan 
2019 to Dec 2020. The authors have no other conflicts of interest to declare.


569. Ann Cardiothorac Surg. 2021 Jul;10(4):454-462. doi: 10.21037/acs-2021-rp-26.

The Ross procedure is the optimal solution for young adults with unrepairable 
aortic valve disease.

Hage A(1), Hage F(1), Valdis M(1), Guo L(1), Chu MWA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiac Surgery, Department of Surgery, Western University, 
London Health Sciences Centre, London, ON, Canada.

While aortic valve repair remains the ideal intervention to restore normal 
valvular function, the optimal aortic valve substitute for patients with a 
non-repairable aortic valve remains an ongoing subject for debate. In 
particular, younger patients with a non-repairable valve represent a unique 
challenge because of their active lifestyle and long life expectancy, which 
carries a higher cumulative risk of prosthesis-related complications. The Ross 
procedure, unlike prosthetic or homograft aortic valve replacement (AVR), 
provides an expected survival equivalent to that of the age and gender-matched 
general population. Contemporary data has shown that the Ross procedure can be 
performed safely in centers with expertise, and is associated with improved 
valvular durability, hemodynamics and quality of life.

2021 Annals of Cardiothoracic Surgery. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/acs-2021-rp-26
PMCID: PMC8339615
PMID: 34422557

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: MWAC has received 
speaker’s honorarium from Medtronic, Edwards Lifesciences, Terumo Aortic, Abbott 
Vascular and Boston Scientific. The other authors have no conflicts of interest 
to declare.


570. Ann Cardiothorac Surg. 2021 Jul;10(4):499-508. doi:
10.21037/acs-2021-rp-fs-28.

Long-term outcomes of the Ross procedure in adults.

Ryan WH(1), Squiers JJ(1), Harrington KB(1), Goodenow T(1), Rawitscher C(1), 
Schaffer JM(1), DiMaio JM(1), Brinkman WT(1).

Author information:
(1)Baylor Scott & White The Heart Hospital, Plano, TX, USA.

BACKGROUND: The optimal aortic valve replacement for young and middle-aged 
adults remains elusive. Although several high-volume international centers and 
surgeons have demonstrated excellent long-term results with the pulmonary 
autograft (Ross procedure) in adult patients, current guidelines from the United 
States do not favor this technique. We evaluated long-term clinical and 
echocardiographic outcomes of adult patients undergoing the Ross procedure at 
our center.
METHODS: A retrospective review of 225 consecutive adult patients undergoing the 
Ross procedure was completed. Kaplan-Meier analysis was performed to evaluate 
overall survival, which was then compared to an age- and sex-matched general 
population with the log-rank test. Accounting for death as a competing hazard, 
the cumulative incidence of reintervention and autograft or homograft 
dysfunction were estimated over the long-term.
RESULTS: Mean age was 42±11 years, and 62 (28%) patients were at least 50 years 
old. A bicuspid aortic valve was present in 179 (80%) patients. The most common 
indications for surgery were aortic insufficiency (n=94, 43%), aortic stenosis 
(n=81, 36%), and mixed etiology (n=46, 21%). In-hospital mortality was 0.9%. 
Overall survival (with 95% confidence intervals) at 1-, 10- and 20-year was 
97.8% (95.9-99.7%), 94.2% (91.0-97.4%), and 81.3% (74.8-88.3%), respectively. 
Overall survival approximated that of the general population (log-rank P=0.32). 
The cumulative incidence (with 95% confidence intervals) of any autograft or 
homograft reintervention at 10-, 15-, and 20-year was 16% (12-20%), 28% 
(21-35%), and 45% (36-54%), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The Ross procedure restores a normal life expectancy to young and 
middle-aged adults with severe aortic valve disease. The need for reintervention 
increases steadily during the second decade after the Ross procedure, but less 
than half of patients require any reintervention for up to 20-year.

2021 Annals of Cardiothoracic Surgery. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/acs-2021-rp-fs-28
PMCID: PMC8339616
PMID: 34422562

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: JJS effort was supported 
by a philanthropic gift from Satish and Yasmin Gupta. The other authors have no 
conflicts of interest to declare.


571. Front Med (Lausanne). 2021 Aug 4;8:711194. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2021.711194. 
eCollection 2021.

Patient Reported Experiences and Delays During the Diagnostic Pathway for 
Pulmonary Fibrosis: A Multinational European Survey.

van der Sar IG(1), Jones S(2), Clarke DL(3), Bonella F(4), Fourrier JM(5), 
Lewandowska K(6), Bermudo G(7), Simidchiev A(8), Strambu IR(9), Wijsenbeek 
MS(1), Parfrey H(10).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, Netherlands.
(2)Action for Pulmonary Fibrosis, Lichfield, United Kingdom.
(3)Galapagos NV, Mechelen, Belgium.
(4)Ruhrlandklinik, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(5)Association Pierre Enjalran Fibrose Pulmonaire Idiopathique, Meyzieu, France.
(6)Department of Pulmonary Diseases, National Research Institute of Tuberculosis 
and Lung Diseases, Warsaw, Poland.
(7)Hospital Universitari de Bellvitge, Barcelona, Spain.
(8)Department of Functional Diagnostics, Medical Institute MVR, Sofia, Bulgaria.
(9)Carol Davila University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania.
(10)Royal Papworth Hospital, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

Introduction: Pulmonary fibrosis includes a spectrum of diseases and is 
incurable. There is a variation in disease course, but it is often progressive 
leading to increased breathlessness, impaired quality of life, and decreased 
life expectancy. Detection of pulmonary fibrosis is challenging, which 
contributes to considerable delays in diagnosis and treatment. More knowledge 
about the diagnostic journey from patients' perspective is needed to improve the 
diagnostic pathway. The aims of this study were to evaluate the time to 
diagnosis of pulmonary fibrosis, identify potential reasons for delays, and 
document patients emotions. Methods: Members of European patient organisations, 
with a self-reported diagnosis of pulmonary fibrosis, were invited to 
participate in an online survey. The survey assessed the diagnostic pathway 
retrospectively, focusing on four stages: (1) time from initial symptoms to 
first appointment in primary care; (2) time to hospital referral; (3) time to 
first hospital appointment; (4) time to final diagnosis. It comprised open-ended 
and closed questions focusing on time to diagnosis, factors contributing to 
delays, diagnostic tests, patient emotions, and information provision. Results: 
Two hundred and seventy three participants (214 idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, 
28 sarcoidosis, 31 other) from 13 countries responded. Forty percent of 
individuals took ≥1 year to receive a final diagnosis. Greatest delays were 
reported in stage 1, with only 50.2% making an appointment within 3 months. For 
stage 2, 73.3% reported a hospital referral within three primary care visits. 
However, 9.9% reported six or more visits. After referral, 76.9% of patients 
were assessed by a specialist within 3 months (stage 3) and 62.6% received a 
final diagnosis within 3 months of their first hospital visit (stage 4). 
Emotions during the journey were overall negative. A major need for more 
information and support during and after the diagnostic process was identified. 
Conclusion: The time to diagnose pulmonary fibrosis varies widely across Europe. 
Delays occur at each stage of the diagnostic pathway. Raising awareness about 
pulmonary fibrosis amongst the general population and healthcare workers is 
essential to shorten the time to diagnosis. Furthermore, there remains a need to 
provide patients with sufficient information and support at all stages of their 
diagnostic journey.

Copyright © 2021 van der Sar, Jones, Clarke, Bonella, Fourrier, Lewandowska, 
Bermudo, Simidchiev, Strambu, Wijsenbeek and Parfrey.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2021.711194
PMCID: PMC8371687
PMID: 34422866

Conflict of interest statement: IvS reports grants from Boehringer Ingelheim 
outside the submitted work. SJ reports grants from Action for Pulmonary Fibrosis 
during the conduct of the study. FB reports personal fees and other from 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Roche, Galapagos, Savara outside the submitted work. AS 
reports personal fees from Roche, Boehringer Ingelheim, Berlin Chemie Menarini, 
Teva-Actavis, Medopharma, S&D Pharma Logistics and Pfizer, and grants from 
GlaxoSmithKline and Berlin Chemie Menarini outside the submitted work. IvS 
reports personal fees from Galapagos, Boehringer Ingelheim, Roche Pharma, 
Novartis Pharma, Menarini and Astra Zeneca outside the submitted work. MW 
reports grants and other from Boehringer Ingelheim and Hoffman la Roche, and 
other from Respivant, Galapagos, Safara, Novartis and Bristol Meyer Squib 
outside the submitted work. All grants and fees were paid to MW's institution. 
HP reports consultancy fees and conference travel from Roche and Boehringer 
Ingelheim; an educational grant and speaker fees from Roche. HP is a trustee for 
Action for Pulmonary Fibrosis and a member of the EU-IPFF scientific advisory 
board. KL reports personal fees, travel grants and consultancy fees from 
Boehringer Ingelheim and Roche outside submitted work. The remaining authors 
declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or 
financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest.


572. Front Nutr. 2021 Aug 4;8:633987. doi: 10.3389/fnut.2021.633987. eCollection 
2021.

The Aging Muscle in Experimental Bed Rest: A Systematic Review and 
Meta-Analysis.

Di Girolamo FG(1)(2), Fiotti N(1), Milanović Z(3)(4)(5), Situlin R(1), Mearelli 
F(1), Vinci P(1), Šimunič B(4), Pišot R(4), Narici M(6), Biolo G(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinica Medica, Azienda Sanitaria Universitaria Giuliano Isontina, Department 
of Medical, Surgical and Health Sciences, University of Trieste, Trieste, Italy.
(2)SC Assistenza Farmaceutica, Azienda Sanitaria Universitaria Giuliano 
Isontina, Department of Medical, Surgical and Health Sciences, University of 
Trieste, Trieste, Italy.
(3)Faculty of Sport and Physical Education, University of Niš, Niš, Serbia.
(4)Science and Research Centre Koper, Institute for Kinesiology Research, Koper, 
Slovenia.
(5)Faculty of Sports Studies, Incubator of Kinanthropological Research, Masaryk 
University, Brno, Czechia.
(6)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Neuromuscular Physiology Laboratory, 
University of Padova, Padova, Italy.

Background: Maintaining skeletal muscle mass and function in aging is crucial 
for preserving the quality of life and health. An experimental bed rest (BR) 
protocol is a suitable model to explore muscle decline on aging during 
inactivity. Objective: The purpose of this systematic review and meta-analysis 
was, therefore, to carry out an up-to-date evaluation of bed rest, with a 
specific focus on the magnitude of effects on muscle mass, strength, power, and 
functional capacity changes as well as the mechanisms, molecules, and pathways 
involved in muscle decay. Design: This was a systematic review and meta-analysis 
study. Data sources: We used PubMed, Medline; Web of Science, Google Scholar, 
and the Cochrane library, all of which were searched prior to April 23, 2020. A 
manual search was performed to cover bed rest experimental protocols using the 
following key terms, either singly or in combination: "Elderly Bed rest," "Older 
Bed rest," "Old Bed rest," "Aging Bed rest," "Aging Bed rest," "Bed-rest," and 
"Bedrest". Eligibility criteria for selecting studies: The inclusion criteria 
were divided into four sections: type of study, participants, interventions, and 
outcome measures. The primary outcome measures were: body mass index, fat mass, 
fat-free mass, leg lean mass, cross-sectional area, knee extension power, 
cytokine pattern, IGF signaling biomarkers, FOXO signaling biomarkers, 
mitochondrial modulation biomarkers, and muscle protein kinetics biomarkers. 
Results: A total of 25 studies were included in the qualitative synthesis, while 
17 of them were included in the meta-analysis. In total, 118 healthy elderly 
volunteers underwent 5-, 7-, 10-, or 14-days of BR and provided a brief sketch 
on the possible mechanisms involved. In the very early phase of BR, important 
changes occurred in the skeletal muscle, with significant loss of performance 
associated with a lesser grade reduction of the total body and muscle mass. 
Meta-analysis of the effect of bed rest on total body mass was determined to be 
small but statistically significant (ES = -0.45, 95% CI: -0.72 to -0.19, P < 
0.001). Moderate, statistically significant effects were observed for total lean 
body mass (ES = -0.67, 95% CI: -0.95 to -0.40, P < 0.001) after bed rest 
intervention. Overall, total lean body mass was decreased by 1.5 kg, while there 
was no relationship between bed rest duration and outcomes (Z = 0.423, p = 672). 
The meta-analyzed effect showed that bed rest produced large, statistically 
significant, effects (ES = -1.06, 95% CI: -1.37 to -0.75, P < 0.001) in terms of 
the knee extension power. Knee extension power was decreased by 14.65 N/s. In 
contrast, to other measures, meta-regression showed a significant relationship 
between bed rest duration and knee extension power (Z = 4.219, p < 0.001). 
Moderate, statistically significant, effects were observed after bed rest 
intervention for leg muscle mass in both old (ES = -0.68, 95% CI: -0.96 to 
-0.40, P < 0.001) and young (ES = -0.51, 95% CI: -0.80 to -0.22, P < 0.001) 
adults. However, the magnitude of change was higher in older (MD = -0.86 kg) 
compared to younger (MD = -0.24 kg) adults. Conclusion: Experimental BR is a 
suitable model to explore the detrimental effects of inactivity in young adults, 
old adults, and hospitalized people. Changes in muscle mass and function are the 
two most investigated variables, and they allow for a consistent trend in the 
BR-induced changes. Mechanisms underlying the greater loss of muscle mass and 
function in aging, following inactivity, need to be thoroughly investigated.

Copyright © 2021 Di Girolamo, Fiotti, Milanović, Situlin, Mearelli, Vinci, 
Šimunič, Pišot, Narici and Biolo.

DOI: 10.3389/fnut.2021.633987
PMCID: PMC8371327
PMID: 34422875

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


573. ACS Omega. 2021 Aug 4;6(32):21087-21093. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.1c02894. 
eCollection 2021 Aug 17.

Catalytically Cleavable Detergent for Membrane Protein Studies.

Liu L(1), Zhu Z(1), Zhou F(2), Xue D(2), Hu T(2)(3), Luo W(2)(3), Qiu Y(2)(3), 
Wu D(2), Zhao F(2), Le Z(1), Tao H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Nanchang University, 999 Xuefu Avenue, Nanchang 
330031, China.
(2)iHuman Institute, ShanghaiTech University, Y Building, 393 Middle Huaxia 
Road, Shanghai 201210, China.
(3)School of Life Science and Technology, ShanghaiTech University, L Building, 
393 Middle Huaxia Road, Shanghai 201210, China.

Throughout the in vitro studies of membrane proteins (MPs), proper detergents 
are essential for the preparation of stable aqueous samples. To date, 
universally applicable detergents have not yet been reported to accommodate the 
distinct requirements for the highly diversified MPs and at the different stages 
of MP manipulation. Detergent exchange often has to be performed. We report 
herein the catalytically cleavable detergents (CatCDs) that can be efficiently 
removed to facilitate a complete exchange. To this end, functional groups, like 
propargyl and allyl, are introduced as branched chains or built in the 
hydrophobic chain close to the hydrophilic head. The representative CatCDs can 
be used as usual detergents in the extraction and purification of MPs and later 
be removed upon the addition of catalytic palladium. Mediated by CatCD-1, 
reconstitution of a transporter protein MsbA into a series of detergents was 
achieved. The extension of these designs could facilitate the future 
optimization of other biophysics studies.

© 2021 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.1c02894
PMCID: PMC8375090
PMID: 34423216

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


574. Zhongguo Gu Shang. 2021 Aug 25;34(8):764-9. doi: 
10.12200/j.issn.1003-0034.2021.08.014.

[3D printed personalized lumbar spinal fusion device design and biomechanical 
performance analysis].

[Article in Chinese]

Ren J(1), Lyu Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, the Second Hospital of Shanxi Medical University, 
Taiyuan 030001, Shanxi, China.

OBJECTIVE: The finite element analysis method was used to compare the 
biomechanical performance of the individualized interbody fusion cage, the 
clinically common double bullet type fusion cage and the healthy lumbar spine 
model under different working conditions.
METHODS: According to the CT scan data of the lumbar spine of a real healthy 
human body, a finite element model of the lumbar spine of a healthy human body 
was designed using finite element software as a normal control group. On this 
basis, the individualized lumbar fusion cage model and the clinical standard 
bullet type fusion cage lumbar spine model were further established. These three 
finite element models were applied with different loads such as vertical 
compression, forward flexion, extension, and lateral bending to observethe 
changes in the stress distribution and stress magnitude of each component of the 
lumbar spine.
RESULTS: The maximum stress values of the vertebral body and the fusion cage 
under the extension condition in the clinical standard bullet type fusion cage 
lumbar spine model were 45.81 MPa and 97.07 MPa, respectively. The stress of the 
vertebral body and the fusion cage in the individualized lumbar fusion cage 
model was closer to the stress of the vertebral body and the intervertebral disc 
in the healthy lumbar spine model. From the perspective of displacement, the 
displacement of each component of the lumbar spine models of the two fusion 
cages was smaller than that of the healthy lumbar spine model, indicated that 
the internal fixation of the fusion cage limited the range of motion of the 
vertebral body. On the other hand, it also confirmed the validity of the finite 
element model established in the study. The displacement of the fusion cage and 
the vertebral body in the individualized model under different working 
conditions was generally smaller thanthat of the standard model fusion cage and 
the vertebral body.
CONCLUSION: The fusion cage can replace the diseased intervertebral disc to a 
certain extent, so as to reduce the patient's pain and restore the lumbar 
function. The personalized design of the fusion cage can better meet the needs 
of individual patients, which has the great significance to the recovery of the 
patient's lumbar spine function, the service life of the fusion cage and the 
protection of the contact vertebral body, and provides certain guidance for 
actual clinical treatment.

DOI: 10.12200/j.issn.1003-0034.2021.08.014
PMID: 34423622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. JAMA Intern Med. 2021 Oct 1;181(10):1297-1304. doi: 
10.1001/jamainternmed.2021.4260.

Association Between Neighborhood Disadvantage and Functional Well-being in 
Community-Living Older Persons.

Gill TM(1), Zang EX(2), Murphy TE(1), Leo-Summers L(1), Gahbauer EA(1), Festa 
N(1), Falvey JR(3), Han L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut.
(2)Department of Sociology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut.
(3)Department of Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Science, University of 
Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore.

Comment in
    JAMA Intern Med. 2021 Oct 1;181(10):1304-1305.

IMPORTANCE: Neighborhood disadvantage is a novel social determinant of health 
that could adversely affect the functional well-being of older persons. 
Deficiencies in resource-poor environments can potentially be addressed through 
social and public health interventions.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether estimates of active and disabled life expectancy 
differ on the basis of neighborhood disadvantage after accounting for 
individual-level socioeconomic characteristics and other prognostic factors.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This prospective longitudinal cohort study 
included 754 nondisabled community-living persons, aged 70 years or older, who 
were members of the Precipitating Events Project in south central Connecticut 
from March 1998 to June 2020.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Disability in 4 essential activities of daily living 
(bathing, dressing, walking, and transferring) was assessed each month. Scores 
on the Area Deprivation Index, a census-based socioeconomic measure with 17 
education, employment, housing quality, and poverty indicators, were obtained 
through linkages with the 2000 Neighborhood Atlas. Area Deprivation Index scores 
were dichotomized at the 80th state percentile to distinguish neighborhoods that 
were disadvantaged (81-100) from those that were not (1-80).
RESULTS: Among the 754 participants, the mean (SD) age was 78.4 (5.3) years, and 
487 (64.6%) were female. Within 5-year age increments from 70 to 90, active life 
expectancy was consistently lower in participants from neighborhoods that were 
disadvantaged vs not disadvantaged, and these differences persisted and remained 
statistically significant after adjustment for individual-level race and 
ethnicity, education, income, and other prognostic factors. At age 70 years, 
adjusted estimates (95% CI) for active life expectancy (in years) were 12.3 
(11.5-13.1) in the disadvantaged group and 14.2 (13.5-14.7) in the 
nondisadvantaged group. At each age, participants from disadvantaged 
neighborhoods spent a greater percentage of their projected remaining life 
disabled, relative to those from nondisadvantaged neighborhoods, with adjusted 
values (SE) ranging from 17.7 (0.8) vs 15.3 (0.5) at age 70 years to 55.0 (1.7) 
vs 48.1 (1.3) at age 90 years.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this prospective longitudinal cohort study, living 
in a disadvantaged neighborhood was associated with lower active life expectancy 
and a greater percentage of projected remaining life with disability. By 
addressing deficiencies in resource-poor environments, new or expanded social 
and public health initiatives have the potential to improve the functional 
well-being of community-living older persons and, in turn, reduce health 
disparities in the US.

DOI: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2021.4260
PMCID: PMC8383163
PMID: 34424276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Drs Gill, 
Zang, Murphy, and Falvey reported receiving grant funding from the National 
Institutes of Health during the conduct of the study. No other disclosures were 
reported.


576. Lancet. 2021 Nov 20;398(10314):1914-1926. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(21)01204-6.  Epub 2021 Aug 20.

Chronic myeloid leukaemia.

Cortes J(1), Pavlovsky C(2), Saußele S(3).

Author information:
(1)Georgia Cancer Center, Augusta University, Augusta, GA, USA. Electronic 
address: jorge.cortes@augusta.edu.
(2)FUNDALEU, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)University Hospital Mannheim, Heidelberg University, Mannheim, Germany.

Tyrosine-kinase inhibitors have changed the natural history of chronic myeloid 
leukaemia in such a way that patients with adequate access to these agents, who 
are properly managed, and who respond well to this treatment can expect a 
near-normal life expectancy. Achieving this goal requires an adequate 
understanding of the patient's treatment goals, careful monitoring for the 
achievement of optimal response hallmarks, implementation of proper 
interventions according to the attainment of such endpoints, adequate 
recognition and management of adverse events, and acknowledgment of the 
relevance of comorbidities. Treatment with tyrosine-kinase inhibitors, once 
considered lifelong, has become terminable for at least some patients, and 
promising new agents are emerging for those whose disease does not respond to 
any of the multiple therapeutic options currently available. If these advances 
reach all patients with chronic myeloid leukaemia, cure might eventually become 
a reality in most instances.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(21)01204-6
PMID: 34425075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests JC reports grants and 
personal fees from Novartis, Pfizer, Takeda, and Sun Pharma; and grants from 
Bristol Myers Squibb, all outside the submitted work. CP reports grants and 
personal fees from Novartis and Pint Pharma; and personal fees from Bristol 
Myers Squibb and Pfizer, all outside the submitted work. SS reports grants and 
personal fees from Novartis, Bristol Myers Squibb, and Incyte; and personal fees 
from Pfizer, all outside the submitted work.


577. Int J Biol Macromol. 2021 Oct 31;189:251-261. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2021.08.119. Epub 2021 Aug 20.

Controlled release antimicrobial sachet prepared from poly(butylene 
succinate)/geraniol and ethylene vinyl alcohol coated paper for bread shelf-life 
extension application.

Petchwattana N(1), Naknaen P(2), Cha-Aim K(2), Suksri C(2), Sanetuntikul J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Srinakharinwirot 
University, Nakhon Nayok 26120, Thailand. Electronic address: 
nawadon@g.swu.ac.th.
(2)Faculty of Agricultural Product Innovation and Technology, Srinakharinwirot 
University, Nakhon Nayok 26120, Thailand.
(3)Faculty of Engineering and Technology, King Mongkut's University of 
Technology North Bangkok, Rayong 21120, Thailand.

This research aims to develop white bread shelf-life extension sachet with 
controlled release of antimicrobial agent prepared from multicomponent bio-based 
materials. The structure of antimicrobial sachet consists of two major parts 
i.e., controlled release part and active part. The first part produced from 
paper coated with ethylene vinyl alcohol (EVOH). The second one was an active 
part which produced from biodegradable poly(butylene succinate) (PBS) and 
geraniol essential oil blend. Inhibition clear zone test results showed that a 
suitable geraniol concentration, encapsulated in PBS, was 10 wt%. Based on the 
water vapor transmission test, coating paper with EVOH for three times (around 
450 μm) was an optimal condition for the use as a controlled release part. 
Release test indicated that geraniol migration concentration increased with 
increasing the relative humidity (RH) in the package which correlated to the 
moisture liberated from bread slice. Shelf-life extension study informed that 
the spoilage of bread stored with antimicrobial sachet was delayed by more than 
three weeks. In summary, this antimicrobial sachet could be used in food 
shelf-life extension purpose which easily placed in any food container. This is 
an alternative way of food waste minimization.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2021.08.119
PMID: 34425124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. J Environ Manage. 2021 Dec 1;299:113566. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2021.113566.
 Epub 2021 Aug 20.

Environmental risk assessment by using disability adjusted life year via 
constructing of a generalized linear model for morbidity estimation of 
waterborne pathogens.

Gao T(1), Xu P(2), Chen R(2), Wang XC(2), Dzakpasu M(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Environmental and Chemical Engineering, Xi'an Polytechnic 
University, No.19 South Jinhua Road, Xi'an, 710048, PR China; International S&T 
Cooperation Centre for Urban Alternative Water Resources Development, Key Lab of 
Environmental Engineering, Shaanxi Province, Xi'an University of Architecture 
and Technology, No.13 Yanta Road, Xi'an, 710055, PR China. Electronic address: 
358964614@qq.com.
(2)International S&T Cooperation Centre for Urban Alternative Water Resources 
Development, Key Lab of Environmental Engineering, Shaanxi Province, Xi'an 
University of Architecture and Technology, No.13 Yanta Road, Xi'an, 710055, PR 
China.

The Environmental burden of disease (EBD) quantitatively evaluates the health 
impacts of pathogens by using the disability-adjusted life year (DALY) method. 
The life loss due to morbidity is a general expression for the EBD outcome and, 
thus, morbidity analysis is indispensable. Considering the deficiency of 
previous morbidity analysis methods, the objective of this study was to 
construct a linear morbidity model by using a generalized linear model (GLM) as 
a template and introducing exposure dose, pathogen toxicity and human immunity 
as impact variables. Human experimental data were collected for model fitting, 
and the results indicated a good fit of the majority of the pathogen data. 
Consequently, two practical cases of water reuse in Xi'an Siyuan University 
(Case 1) and Lake Cui, Kunming (Case 2) were selected for model validation. 
Results for case 1 indicated the major EBD to be attributed to rotaviruses 
(5.57 × 10-7 DALYs, 95% confidence interval (CI): 4.46 × 10-7-1.72 × 10-4 DALYs) 
and sprinkling irrigation (5.12 × 10-7 DALYs, 95% CI: 1.95 × 10-7-1.47 × 101 
DALYs). Conversely, that for case 2 is mainly attributed to noroviruses 
(1.42 × 10-7 DALYs, 95% CI: 7.51 × 10-11-2.67 × 10-4 DALYs) and road flushing 
(1.62 × 10-7 DALYs, 95% CI: 1.16 × 10-7-2.67 × 10-4 DALYs). However, comparison 
with the suggested threshold of 10-6 DALYs indicated the EBDs for both cases are 
acceptable and, thus, water reuse is confirmed to be safe. The methodology for 
morbidity modelling proposed in this research can effectively compensate for 
missing data in DALY calculation and, thereby, help to optimize the process for 
EBD evaluation.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2021.113566
PMID: 34425498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. BMJ Case Rep. 2021 Aug 23;14(8):e244669. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2021-244669.

Severe case of Lemierre syndrome with multiple neurological and ophthalmological 
sequelae.

Liu A(1), Taylor J(2), Slavin M(2)(3), Tong S(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Victorian Infectious Diseases Service, The Royal Melbourne Hospital, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia alice.junnan.liu@gmail.com.
(2)Victorian Infectious Diseases Service, The Royal Melbourne Hospital, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Infectious Diseases & Infection Prevention Research, Peter MacCallum Cancer 
Centre, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Department of Infectious Diseases, The Peter Doherty Institute for Infection 
and Immunity, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

A 56-year-old man was admitted to intensive care with septic shock, multiple 
facial abscesses and thrombophlebitis of the right internal jugular vein with 
extensive intracranial extension. A diagnosis of Lemierre syndrome due to 
Streptococcus anginosus was made and treatment initiated with high-dose 
ceftriaxone and metronidazole, along with surgical debridement. His admission 
was complicated by raised intraocular pressures and visual loss requiring 
bilateral canthotomies. Despite therapeutic anticoagulation with enoxaparin, he 
also developed an ischaemic basal ganglia infarct. After a prolonged and complex 
hospital stay, the patient was later readmitted with an intracerebral abscess 
requiring surgical excision and a second course of antibiotics. This case 
highlights the value of early recognition of this rare but potentially 
life-threatening condition, considerations around anticoagulation and antibiotic 
decisions, and the importance of close multidisciplinary follow-up even after 
discharge from hospital.

© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2021. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2021-244669
PMCID: PMC8383858
PMID: 34426431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


580. Herz. 2021 Oct;46(5):429-436. doi: 10.1007/s00059-021-05057-8. Epub 2021 Aug
24.

Pushing the limits for interventional treatment of aortic valve stenosis.

[Article in English]

Xhepa E(1), Alvarez-Covarrubias HA(1), Joner M(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Herz- und Kreislauferkrankungen, Deutsches Herzzentrum München, 
Technische Universität München, Munich, Germany.
(2)Klinik für Herz- und Kreislauferkrankungen, Deutsches Herzzentrum München, 
Technische Universität München, Munich, Germany. joner@dhm.mhn.de.
(3)Partner Site Munich Heart Alliance, DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular 
Research), Munich, Germany. joner@dhm.mhn.de.

As we approach 20 years of clinical experience with transcatheter aortic valve 
replacement (TAVR), a vast portfolio of high-quality clinical data has 
accumulated, confirming the safety and efficacy of TAVR across the entire 
spectrum of surgical risk. Although many aspects of this innovative therapy have 
been thoroughly studied, several challenges remain. As TAVR is expanding to 
include younger low-risk patients, with longer life expectancy, one major 
unsolved issue is represented by transcatheter heart valve (THV) durability, 
since robust THV durability data are currently limited to approximately 
5-6 years. Additionally, steric interactions between THV components and coronary 
