(T2DM), are not necessarily associated with an increase in mortality; this is 
the so-called Hispanic paradox. In this cross-sectional analysis, we used a 
metabolomic analysis to look at the mechanisms behind the Hispanic paradox. To 
do this, we examined dietary intake and body mass index (BMI; kg/m2) in men and 
women and their effects on serum metabolomic fingerprints in 70 Mexican 
Americans (26 men, 44 women). Although having different BMI values, the 
participants had many similar anthropometric and biochemical parameters, such as 
systolic and diastolic blood pressure, total cholesterol, and LDL cholesterol, 
which supported the paradox in these subjects. Plasma metabolomic phenotypes 
were measured using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). A 
two-way ANOVA assessing sex, BMI, and the metabolome revealed 23 significant 
metabolites, such as 2-pyrrolidinone (p = 0.007), TMAO (p = 0.014), 
2-aminoadipic acid (p = 0.019), and kynurenine (p = 0.032). Pathway and 
enrichment analyses discovered several significant metabolic pathways between 
men and women, including lysine degradation, tyrosine metabolism, and 
branch-chained amino acid (BCAA) degradation and biosynthesis. A log-transformed 
OPLS-DA model was employed and demonstrated a difference due to BMI in the 
metabolomes of both sexes. When stratified for caloric intake (<2200 kcal/d vs. 
>2200 kcal/d), a separate OPLS-DA model showed clear separation in men, while 
females remained relatively unchanged. After accounting for caloric intake and 
BMI status, the female metabolome showed substantial resistance to alteration. 
Therefore, we provide a better understanding of the Mexican-American metabolome, 
which may help demonstrate how this population-particularly women-possesses a 
longer life expectancy despite several comorbidities, and reveal the underlying 
mechanisms of the Hispanic paradox.

DOI: 10.3390/metabo11080552
PMCID: PMC8401672
PMID: 34436492

Conflict of interest statement: All authors report no conflict of interest.


599. JAMA Netw Open. 2021 Aug 2;4(8):e2122810. doi: 
10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2021.22810.

Association of Breast Density With Breast Cancer Risk Among Women Aged 65 Years 
or Older by Age Group and Body Mass Index.

Advani SM(1)(2), Zhu W(3), Demb J(4), Sprague BL(5), Onega T(6), Henderson 
LM(7), Buist DSM(3), Zhang D(8), Schousboe JT(9), Walter LC(10), Kerlikowske 
K(10)(11), Miglioretti DL(3)(12), Braithwaite D(2)(13)(8); Breast Cancer 
Surveillance Consortium.

Collaborators: Sprague BL, Onega T, Henderson LM, Buist DS, Kerlikowske K, 
Miglioretti DL, Zhu W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC.
(2)Terasaki Institute of Biomedical Innovation, Los Angeles, California.
(3)Kaiser Permanente Washington Health Research Institute, Seattle, Washington.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Diego.
(5)Department of Surgery, Larner College of Medicine, University of Vermont, 
Burlington.
(6)Department of Population Sciences, University of Utah, Salt Lake City.
(7)Department of Radiology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
(8)Department of Epidemiology, University of Florida, Gainesville.
(9)Division of Research, Health Partners Institute, Bloomington, Minnesota.
(10)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco.
(11)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California, San 
Francisco.
(12)Department of Public Health Sciences, School of Medicine, University of 
California, Davis.
(13)Cancer Control and Population Sciences Program, University of Florida Health 
Cancer Center, Gainesville.

Comment in
    JAMA Netw Open. 2021 Aug 2;4(8):e2124385.

IMPORTANCE: Breast density is associated with breast cancer risk in women aged 
40 to 65 years, but there is limited evidence of its association with risk of 
breast cancer among women aged 65 years or older.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the association between breast density and risk of 
invasive breast cancer among women aged 65 to 74 years vs women aged 75 years or 
older and to evaluate whether the association is modified by body mass index 
(BMI).
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This prospective cohort study used data from 
the Breast Cancer Surveillance Consortium from January 1, 1996, to December 31, 
2012, for US women aged 65 years or older who underwent screening mammography. 
Data were analyzed from January 1, 2018, to December 31, 2020.
EXPOSURES: Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System breast density category, 
age, and BMI.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The 5-year cumulative incidence of invasive breast 
cancer by level of breast density (almost entirely fat, scattered fibroglandular 
densities, or heterogeneous or extreme density) and age (65-74 vs ≥75 years) was 
calculated using weighted means. Cox proportional hazards models were fit to 
estimate the association of breast density with invasive breast cancer risk. The 
likelihood ratio test was used to test the interaction between BMI and breast 
density.
RESULTS: A total of 221 714 screening mammograms from 193 787 women were 
included in the study; a total of 38% of the study population was aged 75 years 
or older. Of the mammograms, most were from women aged 65 to 74 years (64.6%) 
and non-Hispanic White individuals (81.4%). The 5-year cumulative incidence of 
invasive breast cancer increased in association with increasing breast density 
among women aged 65 to 74 years (almost entirely fatty breasts: 11.3 per 1000 
women [95% CI, 10.4-12.5 per 1000 women]; scattered fibroglandular densities: 
17.2 per 1000 women [95% CI, 16.1-17.9 per 1000 women]; extremely or 
heterogeneously dense breasts: 23.7 per 1000 women [95% CI, 22.4-25.3 per 1000 
women]) and among those aged 75 years or older (fatty breasts: 13.5 per 1000 
women [95% CI, 11.6-15.5]; scattered fibroglandular densities: 18.4 per 1000 
women [95% CI, 17.0-19.5 per 1000 women]; extremely or heterogeneously dense 
breasts: 22.5 per 1000 women [95% CI, 20.2-24.2 per 1000 women]). Extreme or 
heterogeneous breast density was associated with increased risk of breast cancer 
compared with scattered fibroglandular breast density in both age categories 
(65-74 years: hazard ratio [HR], 1.39 [95% CI, 1.28-1.50]; ≥75 years: HR, 1.23 
[95% CI, 1.10-1.37]). Women with almost entirely fatty breasts had a decrease of 
approximately 30% (range, 27%-34%) in the risk of invasive breast cancer 
compared with women with scattered fibroglandular breast density (65-74 years: 
HR, 0.66 [95% CI, 0.58-0.75]; ≥75 years: HR, 0.73; 95% CI, 0.62-0.86). 
Associations between breast density and breast cancer risk were not 
significantly modified by BMI (for age 65-74 years: likelihood ratio test, 2.67; 
df, 2; P = .26; for age ≥75 years, 2.06; df, 2; P = .36).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The findings suggest that breast density is 
associated with increased risk of invasive breast cancer among women aged 65 
years or older. Breast density and life expectancy should be considered together 
when discussing the potential benefits vs harms of continued screening 
mammography in this population.

DOI: 10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2021.22810
PMCID: PMC8391100
PMID: 34436608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Ms Zhu 
reported receiving grants from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) during 
the conduct of the study. Dr Sprague reported receiving grants from the National 
Cancer Institute (NCI), NIH and the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute 
(PCORI) during the conduct of the study. Dr Onega reported receiving grants from 
the NIH during the conduct of the study. Dr Henderson reported receiving grants 
from the NCI, NIH during the conduct of the study. Dr Buist reported receiving 
grants from Kaiser Permanente Washington and the NCI, NIH during the conduct of 
the study. Dr Kerlikowske reported receiving grants from the NCI, NIH and PCORI 
during the conduct of the study and serving as a nonpaid consultant for GRAIL. 
Dr Miglioretti reported receiving grants from the NCI, NIH during the conduct of 
the study. Dr Braithwaite reported receiving grants from the NCI, NIH during the 
conduct of the study. No other disclosures were reported.


600. AIDS Behav. 2022 Mar;26(3):795-804. doi: 10.1007/s10461-021-03439-x. Epub
2021  Aug 26.

Cost and Cost-Effectiveness of Incentives for Viral Suppression in People Living 
with HIV.

Dunlap LJ(1), Orme S(2)(3), Zarkin GA(1), Holtgrave DR(4), Maulsby C(5), 
Rodewald AM(6), Holtyn AF(6), Silverman K(6).

Author information:
(1)Behavioral Health Research Division, RTI International, Research Triangle 
Park, NC, USA.
(2)Behavioral Health Research Division, RTI International, Research Triangle 
Park, NC, USA. sorme@rti.org.
(3)RTI International, 701 13th Street NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC, 20005-3967, 
USA. sorme@rti.org.
(4)School of Public Health, and Center for Collaborative HIV Research in 
Practice and Policy, State University of New York, Albany, NY, USA.
(5)Department of Health Behavior and Society, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Center for Learning and 
Health, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Only 63% of people living with HIV in the United States are achieving viral 
suppression. Structural and social barriers limit adherence to antiretroviral 
therapy which furthers the HIV epidemic while increasing health care costs. This 
study calculated the cost and cost-effectiveness of a contingency management 
intervention with cash incentives. People with HIV and detectable viral loads 
were randomized to usual care or an incentive group. Individuals could earn up 
to $3650 per year if they achieved and maintained an undetectable viral load. 
The average 1-year intervention cost, including incentives, was $4105 per 
patient. The average health care costs were $27,189 per patient in usual care 
and $35,853 per patient in the incentive group. We estimated a cost of $28,888 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained, which is well below accepted 
cost-per-QALY thresholds. Contingency management with cash incentives is a 
cost-effective intervention for significantly increasing viral suppression.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10461-021-03439-x
PMID: 34436714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. J Health Econ. 2021 Sep;79:102479. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2021.102479. Epub
 2021 Jun 2.

HIV treatment and worker absenteeism: Quasi-experimental evidence from a 
large-scale health program in South Africa.

Jockers D(1), Langlotz S(2), French D(3), Bärnighausen T(4).

Author information:
(1)Heidelberg Institute of Global Health (HIGH), Faculty of Medicine and 
University Hospital, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)Faculty of Business and Economics, University of Goettingen, Goettingen, 
Germany.
(3)Queen's Management School, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast, United 
Kingdom. Electronic address: declan.french@qub.ac.uk.
(4)Heidelberg Institute of Global Health (HIGH), Faculty of Medicine and 
University Hospital, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany; Africa Health 
Research Institute (AHRI), Somkhele and Durban, South Africa; Harvard Center for 
Population and Development Studies, Harvard University, Boston, United States.

Over the past decade, large-scale HIV antiretroviral therapy (ART) programs have 
proven hugely successful in improving the life expectancy of people living with 
HIV. However, the extent to which treatment allows patients to maintain a 
productive work life remains an open question. We applied an instrumental 
variable method based on individual CD4 counts and exogenously changing 
treatment guidelines to identify the causal effect of ART on health-related 
absenteeism rates among workers living with HIV. We used monthly data from the 
occupational health program of one of the world's largest mining companies in 
South Africa (128,052 observations among 1,924 workers, from 2009 to 2017). 
Eighteen months after ART initiation, the treatment significantly reduced 
absenteeism by 1.033 days per worker and month. Using publicly available wage 
and treatment cost data, we find that the cost savings due to the absenteeism 
effect of ART alone outweigh treatment costs in the mining sector in several 
sub-Saharan African countries.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2021.102479
PMID: 34438129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Children (Basel). 2021 Aug 1;8(8):671. doi: 10.3390/children8080671.

Liver Histopathology in Late Protocol Biopsies after Pediatric Liver 
Transplantation.

Markiewicz-Kijewska M(1), Szymańska S(2), Pyzlak M(3), Kaliciński P(1), 
Teisseyre J(1), Kowalski A(1), Jankowska I(4), Czubkowski P(4), Ismail H(1).

Author information:
(1)The Department of Pediatric Surgery and Organs Transplantation, The 
Children's Memorial Health Institute, 04-730 Warsaw, Poland.
(2)The Department of Pathology, The Children's Memorial Health Institute, 04-730 
Warsaw, Poland.
(3)The Department of Pathology and Laboratory Diagnostic, Maria-Sklodowska-Curie 
National Research Institute of Oncology, 02-781 Warsaw, Poland.
(4)The Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, Nutrition Disorder and 
Pediatric, The Children's Memorial Health Institute, 04-730 Warsaw, Poland.

Liver transplantation has become a routine treatment for children with end stage 
liver failure. Recently, the long term survival of pediatric patients after 
liver transplantation has improved, with a life expectancy much longer than that 
of adult recipients, but also with longer exposition of the graft to various 
injuries, including immunological, inflammatory and others. Biochemical tests, 
although important, do not always reflect graft injury. The aim of our study was 
to analyze the histopathology of the graft in late protocol biopsies and 
correlate it with the clinical and biochemical status of these patients. We 
analyzed 61 protocol liver biopsies taken from 61 patients. Biopsies were taken 
9.03-17.09 years (mean 12.68, median 11.74 years) after transplantation. Liver 
specimens were examined particularly for the presence and stage of liver 
fibrosis, inflammation, steatosis, and acute or chronic cellular and humoral 
rejection. We did not find any abnormalities in 26 (42.6%) liver specimens. None 
of the patients had signs of cellular or antibody mediated rejection or chronic 
rejection. In 23 liver biopsies (37.7%), we found non-specific lymphoid 
infiltrates. Another problem was fibrosis (equal to or more than three on the 
Ishak scale)-we found it in 17 patients, including seven liver specimens (11.5%) 
with severe fibrosis (Ishak 5-6). Conclusions: Various pathomorphological 
abnormalities were found in more than half of patients with a median 11.74 years 
post-transplant follow-up. Most of them presented normal laboratory liver tests 
at the same time, suggesting a slow subclinical process leading to 
pathomorphological abnormalities. No single factor for the development of these 
abnormalities was found, but our study supports the need for protocol liver 
biopsies even in patients with normal/almost normal biochemical liver tests.

DOI: 10.3390/children8080671
PMCID: PMC8392008
PMID: 34438562

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


603. Animals (Basel). 2021 Aug 5;11(8):2316. doi: 10.3390/ani11082316.

Pathophysiology of Fever and Application of Infrared Thermography (IRT) in the 
Detection of Sick Domestic Animals: Recent Advances.

Mota-Rojas D(1), Wang D(2), Titto CG(3), Gómez-Prado J(1), Carvajal-de la Fuente 
V(4), Ghezzi M(5), Boscato-Funes L(1), Barrios-García H(4), Torres-Bernal F(1), 
Casas-Alvarado A(1), Martínez-Burnes J(4).

Author information:
(1)Neurophysiology, Behavior and Animal Welfare Assessment, Unidad Xochimilco, 
Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana, Mexico City 04960, Mexico.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Shandong University, Qingdao 266237, China.
(3)Laboratório de Biometeorologia e Etologia, FZEA-USP, Faculdade de Zootecnia e 
Engenharia de Alimentos, Universidade de São Paulo, Pirassununga 13635-900, 
Brazil.
(4)Animal Health Group, Facultad de Medicina Veterinaria y Zootecnia, 
Universidad Autónoma de Tamaulipas, Ciudad Victoria 87000, Mexico.
(5)Animal Welfare Area, Faculty of Veterinary Sciences (FCV), Universidad 
Nacional del Centro de la Provincia de Buenos Aires (UNCPBA), Buenos Aires 7000, 
Argentina.

Body-temperature elevations are multifactorial in origin and classified as 
hyperthermia as a rise in temperature due to alterations in the thermoregulation 
mechanism; the body loses the ability to control or regulate body temperature. 
In contrast, fever is a controlled state, since the body adjusts its stable 
temperature range to increase body temperature without losing the 
thermoregulation capacity. Fever refers to an acute phase response that confers 
a survival benefit on the body, raising core body temperature during infection 
or systemic inflammation processes to reduce the survival and proliferation of 
infectious pathogens by altering temperature, restriction of essential 
nutrients, and the activation of an immune reaction. However, once the infection 
resolves, the febrile response must be tightly regulated to avoid excessive 
tissue damage. During fever, neurological, endocrine, immunological, and 
metabolic changes occur that cause an increase in the stable temperature range, 
which allows the core body temperature to be considerably increased to stop the 
invasion of the offending agent and restrict the damage to the organism. There 
are different metabolic mechanisms of thermoregulation in the febrile response 
at the central and peripheral levels and cellular events. In response to cold or 
heat, the brain triggers thermoregulatory responses to coping with changes in 
body temperature, including autonomic effectors, such as thermogenesis, 
vasodilation, sweating, and behavioral mechanisms, that trigger flexible, 
goal-oriented actions, such as seeking heat or cold, nest building, and postural 
extension. Infrared thermography (IRT) has proven to be a reliable method for 
the early detection of pathologies affecting animal health and welfare that 
represent economic losses for farmers. However, the standardization of protocols 
for IRT use is still needed. Together with the complete understanding of the 
physiological and behavioral responses involved in the febrile process, it is 
possible to have timely solutions to serious problem situations. For this 
reason, the present review aims to analyze the new findings in 
pathophysiological mechanisms of the febrile process, the heat-loss mechanisms 
in an animal with fever, thermoregulation, the adverse effects of fever, and 
recent scientific findings related to different pathologies in farm animals 
through the use of IRT.

DOI: 10.3390/ani11082316
PMCID: PMC8388492
PMID: 34438772

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


604. Cancers (Basel). 2021 Aug 23;13(16):4228. doi: 10.3390/cancers13164228.

Prognostic Role of Pre-Treatment [(18)F]FDG PET/CT in Patients with Anaplastic 
Thyroid Cancer.

Kim HJ(1), Chang HS(2), Ryu YH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Yongin Severance Hospital, Yonsei University 
College of Medicine, Yongin 16995, Korea.
(2)Department of Surgery, Thyroid Cancer Center, Gangnam Severance Hospital, 
Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul 06273, Korea.
(3)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Gangnam Severance Hospital, Yonsei University 
College of Medicine, Seoul 06273, Korea.

Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC) is a rare but highly lethal disease. 
Therefore, its diagnosis at an early stage and a rapid and accurate 
establishment of a proper treatment strategy is warranted. Tumor glycolysis 
assessed by 18fluorodeoxyglucose ([18F]FDG) positron emission tomography 
(PET)/computed tomography (CT) is predictive of many cancers despite its limited 
proven applicability to ATC. We investigated the prognostic capability of 
[18F]FDG PET/CT in patients with ATC. Forty patients with ATC were subjected to 
[18F]FDG PET/CT for pre-treatment evaluation. The tumor size and stage, overall 
survival (OS), and PET parameters, including the maximum standardized uptake 
value (SUVmax), metabolic tumor volume (MTV), and total lesion glycolysis (TLG) 
were analyzed. The 1-year OS rate was 17.5% with a mean life expectancy of 7.1 
months. Distant metastasis was detected solely using PET/CT in 37.5% of cases. 
High SUVmax, MTV, and TLG were significantly associated with poor prognosis (p < 
0.001, p = 0.002, and p < 0.001, respectively). A significant difference (p < 
0.001) was observed in OS between patients with a high and low tumor SUVmax. 
Glucose metabolism assessed by [18F]FDG PET/CT was significantly associated with 
the OS of patients with ATC. PET-derived parameters such as SUVmax, MTV, and TLG 
are useful prognostic biomarkers for ATC.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers13164228
PMCID: PMC8391441
PMID: 34439382

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


605. Biology (Basel). 2021 Jul 22;10(8):695. doi: 10.3390/biology10080695.

Biological Impact of Photoperiod on Fairy Shrimp (Branchinecta orientalis): Life 
History and Biochemical Composition.

Farhadi S(1), Atashbar Kangarloei B(2), Imani A(1), Sarvi Moghanlou K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Fisheries, Faculty of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Urmia 
University, Urmia 57561-51818, Iran.
(2)Department of Ecology and Stocks Management, Artemia and Aquaculture Research 
Institute, Urmia University, Urmia 57179-44514, Iran.

B. orientalis, fairy shrimp, is often among the most conspicuous invertebrates 
inhabiting temporary aquatic habitats with a typical variation in environmental 
conditions. Its life history characteristics and biochemical composition were 
studied under four different photoperiodic regimes (24L:0D, 0L:24D, 16L:8D, and 
12L:12D). The significantly highest cumulative and initial hatching rates (48 h) 
were obtained at 24L:0D (p < 0.05). Cultivating the larvae under different 
photoperiods did not significantly affect specific growth rate (SGR) (p > 0.05). 
However, higher final total body length and daily growth rate were recorded 
under constant darkness. Higher lipid content was found at 24L:0D to the extent 
that it was more than two times higher than that at 16L:8D and 12L:12D (p < 
0.05). There was also a remarkable increase in body crude protein content at 
24L:0D (p < 0.05). Body fatty-acid profiles of the fairy shrimps were also 
affected by culture condition (p < 0.05). Extension of lighting period resulted 
in a subtle increase in body contents of arginine, lysine, histidine, 
isoleucine, leucine, valine, methionine, and phenylalanine, especially in the 
group kept under a 16L:8D regime. The highest and lowest digestive enzyme 
activity was observed at 0L:24D and 24L:0D, respectively (p < 0.05). In 
contrast, the highest and lowest soluble protein content was recorded at 24L:0D 
and 0L:24D, respectively (p < 0.05). Similarly, antioxidant status was 
significantly higher at 0L:24D (p < 0.05). In conclusion, a 16L:8D light-dark 
cycle might be an optimal condition in terms of growth performance and 
physio-biochemical characteristics. These findings could be helpful in 
optimizing the rearing conditions for upscaling B. orientalis production.

DOI: 10.3390/biology10080695
PMCID: PMC8389274
PMID: 34439928

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
Vice Chancellor for Research and Technology, Urmia University hereby named as 
funder had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


606. Biology (Basel). 2021 Aug 16;10(8):777. doi: 10.3390/biology10080777.

A Time-Saving Strategy to Generate Double Maternal Mutants by an Oocyte-Specific 
Conditional Knockout System in Zebrafish.

Zhang C(1), Li J(2), Tarique I(1), Zhang Y(1), Lu T(1), Wang J(1), Chen A(1), 
Wen F(1), Zhang Z(2), Zhang Y(1), Shao M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Cell and Developmental Biology 
and Key Laboratory for Experimental Teratology of the Ministry of Education, 
School of Life Sciences, Shandong University, Qingdao 266237, China.
(2)Taishan College, Shandong University, Qingdao 266237, China.

Maternal products are those mRNAs and proteins deposited during oogenesis, which 
play critical roles in controlling oocyte formation, fertilization, and early 
embryonic development. However, loss-of-function studies for these maternal 
factors are still lacking, mainly because of the prolonged period of 
transgenerational screening and technical barriers that prevent the generation 
of maternal (M) and maternal and zygotic (MZ) mutant embryos. By the transgenic 
expression of multiple sgRNAs targeting a single gene of interest in the 
background of a transgenic line Tg(zpc:zcas9) with oocyte-specific cas9 
expression, we have successfully obtained maternal or maternal-zygotic mutant 
for single genes in F1 embryos. In this work, we tandemly connected a maternal 
GFP marker and eight sgRNA expression units to target dvl2 and dvl3a 
simultaneously and introduced this construct to the genome of Tg(zpc:zcas9) by 
meganuclease I-Sce I. As expected, we confirmed the existence of Mdvl2;Mdvl3a 
embryos with strong defective convergence and extension movement during 
gastrulation among outcrossed GFP positive F1 offspring. The MZdvl2;MZdvl3a 
embryos were also obtained by crossing the mutant carrying mosaic F0 female with 
dvl2+/-;dvl3a-/- male fish. This proof-of-principle thus highlights the 
potential of this conditional knockout strategy to circumvent the current 
difficulty in the study of genes with multiple functionally redundant paralogs.

DOI: 10.3390/biology10080777
PMCID: PMC8389640
PMID: 34440009

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


607. Biology (Basel). 2021 Aug 23;10(8):819. doi: 10.3390/biology10080819.

Artificial Plantation Responses to Periodic Submergence in Massive Dam and 
Reservoir Riparian Zones: Changes in Soil Properties and Bacterial Community 
Characteristics.

Li J(1), Li L(1), Arif M(1), Ding D(1), Hu X(1), Zheng J(1), Yuan Z(1), Li C(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Eco-Environments in the Three Gorges Reservoir Region 
(Ministry of Education), Chongqing Key Laboratory of Plant Resource Conservation 
and Germplasm Innovation, College of Life Sciences, Southwest University, 
Chongqing 400715, China.

Plant and microbiome interactions are necessary for plant nutrient acquisition. 
However, relatively little is known about the responses of roots, bulk, and 
rhizosphere soil microbial communities in different artificial vegetation types 
(woody and herbaceous) in riparian areas of massive dams and reservoirs. 
Therefore, this study aims to assess such responses at elevations of 165-170 m 
a.s.l. in the riparian zones of the Three Gorges Dam Reservoir, China. The 
samples were collected containing the rhizosphere soil, bulk soil, and roots of 
herbaceous and woody vegetation at different emergence stages in 2018. Then, all 
the samples were analyzed to quantify the soil properties, bacterial community 
characteristics, and their interaction in the early and late emergence phases. 
In different periods, the weight of dominant soil bacteria, including 
Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Chloroflexi, and Cyanobacteria, 
was higher, and their composition was different in the rhizosphere, bulk soil, 
and endophytes. Moreover, the soil co-occurrence networks indicated that the 
weight of soil physical properties was higher than chemical properties in the 
early emergence stage. In contrast, the weight of chemical properties was 
relatively higher in the late emergence stage. Furthermore, the richness and 
diversity of the bacterial community were mainly affected by soil organic 
matter. This study suggests that these herbaceous and woody vegetation are 
suitable for planting in reservoir areas affected by hydrology and human 
disturbance in light of soil nutrients and soil microbial communities, 
respectively. Additionally, these results provide valuable information to 
inoculate the soil with key microbiota members by applying fertilizers, 
potentially improving plant health and soil production.

DOI: 10.3390/biology10080819
PMCID: PMC8389660
PMID: 34440051

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted with no conflicts of interest.


608. Biomedicines. 2021 Aug 6;9(8):968. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines9080968.

Exosomes and Micro-RNAs in Aging Process.

Hamdan Y(1), Mazini L(1), Malka G(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biological Sciences, Université Mohammed VI Polytechnique, Lot 
660 Hay Moulay Rachid, Ben Guerir 3150, Morocco.

Exosomes are the main actors of intercellular communications and have gained 
great interest in the new cell-free regenerative medicine. These nanoparticles 
are secreted by almost all cell types and contain lipids, cytokines, growth 
factors, messenger RNA, and different non-coding RNA, especially micro-RNAs 
(mi-RNAs). Exosomes' cargo is released in the neighboring microenvironment but 
is also expected to act on distant tissues or organs. Different biological 
processes such as cell development, growth and repair, senescence, migration, 
immunomodulation, and aging, among others, are mediated by exosomes and 
principally exosome-derived mi-RNAs. Moreover, their therapeutic potential has 
been proved and reinforced by their use as biomarkers for disease diagnostics 
and progression. Evidence has increasingly shown that exosome-derived mi-RNAs 
are key regulators of age-related diseases, and their involvement in longevity 
is becoming a promising issue. For instance, mi-RNAs such as mi-RNA-21, 
mi-RNA-29, and mi-RNA-34 modulate tissue functionality and regeneration by 
targeting different tissues and involving different pathways but might also 
interfere with long life expectancy. Human mi-RNAs profiling is effectively 
related to the biological fluids that are reported differently between young and 
old individuals. However, their underlying mechanisms modulating cell senescence 
and aging are still not fully understood, and little was reported on the 
involvement of mi-RNAs in cell or tissue longevity. In this review, we summarize 
exosome biogenesis and mi-RNA synthesis and loading mechanism into exosomes' 
cargo. Additionally, we highlight the molecular mechanisms of exosomes and 
exosome-derived mi-RNA regulation in the different aging processes.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines9080968
PMCID: PMC8393989
PMID: 34440172

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


609. Cells. 2021 Aug 6;10(8):2006. doi: 10.3390/cells10082006.

Renalase: A Multi-Functional Signaling Molecule with Roles in Gastrointestinal 
Disease.

Pointer TC(1), Gorelick FS(1)(2), Desir GV(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Yale School of Medicine, 333 Cedar St., New Haven, CT 
06510, USA.
(2)VA Connecticut Health Care System, 950 Campbell Avenue, West Haven, CT 06516, 
USA.

The survival factor renalase (RNLS) is a recently discovered secretory protein 
with potent prosurvival and anti-inflammatory effects. Several evolutionarily 
conserved RNLS domains are critical to its function. These include a 20 aa site 
that encodes for its prosurvival effects. Its prosurvival effects are shown in 
GI disease models including acute cerulein pancreatitis. In rodent models of 
pancreatic cancer and human cancer tissues, increased RNLS expression promotes 
cancer cell survival but shortens life expectancy. This 37 kD protein can 
regulate cell signaling as an extracellular molecule and probably also at 
intracellular sites. Extracellular RNLS signals through a specific plasma 
membrane calcium export transporter; this interaction appears most relevant to 
acute injury and cancer. Preliminary studies using RNLS agonists and 
antagonists, as well as various preclinical disease models, suggest that the 
immunologic and prosurvival effects of RNLS will be relevant to diverse 
pathologies that include acute organ injuries and select cancers. Future studies 
should define the roles of RNLS in intestinal diseases, characterizing the 
RNLS-activated pathways linked to cell survival and developing therapeutic 
agents that can increase or decrease RNLS in relevant clinical settings.

DOI: 10.3390/cells10082006
PMCID: PMC8391834
PMID: 34440775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: F. Gorelick has no conflict of interest with 
this publication. G. Desir is a named inventor on several issued patents related 
to the discovery and therapeutic use of renalase. Renalase is licensed to Bessor 
Pharma, and G. Desir holds an equity position in Bessor and its subsidiary 
Personal Therapeutics. Bessor Pharma has had no involvement in the preparation 
of this manuscript or influenced its content.


610. Cells. 2021 Aug 12;10(8):2069. doi: 10.3390/cells10082069.

MicroRNAs Patterns as Potential Tools for Diagnostic and Prognostic Follow-Up in 
Cancer Survivorship.

Conti I(1), Simioni C(2)(3), Varano G(1), Brenna C(1), Costanzi E(1), Neri 
LM(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Translational Medicine, University of Ferrara, 44121 Ferrara, 
Italy.
(2)Department of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, University of Ferrara, 44121 
Ferrara, Italy.
(3)LTTA-Electron Microscopy Center, University of Ferrara, 44121 Ferrara, Italy.

Advances in screening methods and pharmacological treatments are increasing the 
life expectancy of cancer patients. During recent decades, the community of 
long-term disease-free cancer survivors (LCS) has grown exponentially, raising 
the issues related to cancer follow-up. Cancer relapse and other cancer-related 
diseases, as well as lifestyle, influence cancer survival. Recently, the 
regulatory role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in gene expression and their involvement 
in human diseases, including cancer, has been identified. Extracellular 
circulating miRNAs (ECmiRNAs) have been found in biological fluids and specific 
ECmiRNAs have been associated with cancer development and progression or with a 
therapy response. Here, we focus on the pivotal role of ECmiRNAs as biomarkers 
in cancer diagnosis and prognosis. Then, we discuss the relevance of ECmiRNAs 
expression in cancer survivors for the identification of specific ECmiRNAs 
profiles as potential tools to assess cancer outcome and to control LCS 
follow-up.

DOI: 10.3390/cells10082069
PMCID: PMC8394126
PMID: 34440837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


611. Diagnostics (Basel). 2021 Jul 21;11(8):1304. doi:
10.3390/diagnostics11081304.

Optimization and Standardization of Human Saliva Collection for MALDI-TOF MS.

Costa MM(1)(2)(3), Benoit N(1)(2)(3), Saby F(1)(2)(3), Pradines B(1)(2)(3)(4), 
Granjeaud S(5), Almeras L(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Unité Parasitologie et Entomologie, Département Microbiologie et Maladies 
Infectieuses, Institut de Recherche Biomédicale des Armées, 13005 Marseille, 
France.
(2)Aix Marseille University, IRD, SSA, AP-HM, VITROME, 13005 Marseille, France.
(3)IHU Méditerranée Infection, 13005 Marseille, France.
(4)Centre National de Référence du Paludisme, 13005 Marseille, France.
(5)CRCM Integrative Bioinformatics Platform, Centre de Recherche en Cancérologie 
de Marseille, INSERM, U1068, Institut Paoli-Calmettes, CNRS, UMR7258, 
Aix-Marseille Université UM 105, 13009 Marseille, France.

SARS-CoV-2 outbreak led to unprecedented innovative scientific research to 
preclude the virus dissemination and limit its impact on life expectancy. 
Waiting for the collective immunity by vaccination, mass-testing, and isolation 
of positive cases remain essential. The development of a diagnosis method 
requiring a simple and non-invasive sampling with a quick and low-cost approach 
is on demand. We hypothesized that the combination of saliva specimens with 
MALDI-TOF MS profiling analyses could be the winning duo. Before characterizing 
MS saliva signatures associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection, optimization and 
standardization of sample collection, preparation and storage up to MS analyses 
appeared compulsory. In this view, successive experiments were performed on 
saliva from healthy healthcare workers. Specimen sampling with a roll cotton of 
Salivette® devices appeared the most appropriate collection mode. Saliva protein 
precipitation with organic buffers did not improved MS spectra profiles compared 
to a direct loading of samples mixed with acetonitrile/formic acid buffer onto 
MS plate. The assessment of sample storage conditions and duration revealed that 
saliva should be stored on ice until MS analysis, which should occur on the day 
of sampling. Kinetic collection of saliva highlighted reproducibility of saliva 
MS profiles over four successive days and also at two-week intervals. The 
intra-individual stability of saliva MS profiles should be a key factor in the 
future investigation for biomarkers associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection. 
However, the singularity of MS profiles between individuals will require the 
development of sophisticated bio-statistical analyses such as machine learning 
approaches. MALDI-TOF MS profiling of saliva could be a promising PCR-free tool 
for SARS-CoV-2 screening.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics11081304
PMCID: PMC8392517
PMID: 34441239

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


612. Foods. 2021 Jul 30;10(8):1775. doi: 10.3390/foods10081775.

Effect of High-Pressure Processing on Physico-Chemical, Microbiological and 
Sensory Traits in Fresh Fish Fillets (Salmo salar and Pleuronectes platessa).

Castrica M(1), Pavlovic R(1), Balzaretti CM(1), Curone G(2), Brecchia G(2), 
Copelotti E(1), Panseri S(1), Pessina D(3), Arnoldi C(4), Chiesa LM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health, Animal Science and Food Safety "Carlo Cantoni", 
Università degli Studi di Milano, Via dell'Università 6, 26900 Lodi, Italy.
(2)Department of Veterinary Medicine, University of Milan, Via dell'Università 
6, 26900 Lodi, Italy.
(3)Quality Department, Italian Retail Il Gigante SpA, 20091 Milan, Italy.
(4)Department of Food, Environmental and Nutritional Sciences, University of 
Milan, 20133 Milan, Italy.

High-pressure (HP) treatment could lead to several advantages when applied to 
fish and seafood since it would affect the extension of the shelf life of this 
highly perishable food. In this regard, this study aimed to evaluate the effect 
of high-pressure treatment (500 MPa for 2 min at a temperature of 4 °C) on 
changes in quality on two different kinds of fresh fish fillets (Salmo salar and 
Pleuronectes platessa). Specifically, physico-chemical (VOCs, untargeted 
metabolomics spectra, pH and color), microbiological (Enterobacteriaceae, 
Pseudomonas spp., mesophilic and psychrotrophic bacteria) and sensory traits 
were evaluated at different days of refrigerated storage. From the results 
obtained, it is possible to state that the high pressure significantly (p ≤ 
0.05) reduced microbial growth for each investigated microorganism. Regarding 
the colorimetric coordinates, no remarkable effects on a* and b* indices were 
found, while a significant effect (p = 0.01) was observed on the colorimetric 
index L*, making the HP-treated samples lighter than their respective controls. 
The sensory analysis showed that for the odor attribute, the HP treatment seems 
to have had a stabilizing action during shelf-life. Moreover, the treated 
samples obtained a better score than the respective controls (p ≤ 0.05). With 
regards to texture and appearance attributes, the treatment seems to have had a 
significant (p ≤ 0.05) effect, making the treated samples more compact and 
opaque than controls, therefore resulting in the loss of the characteristics of 
raw fish for the treated samples. Moreover, from a chemical point of view, HP 
treatment prevents the development of volatile sulfides and delays the formation 
of histamine (p ≤ 0.05). Very interestingly, the metabolomic approach revealed 
novel dipeptide markers for the HP procedure.

DOI: 10.3390/foods10081775
PMCID: PMC8392521
PMID: 34441552

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


613. Foods. 2021 Aug 5;10(8):1802. doi: 10.3390/foods10081802.

The Use of Sodium Benzoate on Shelf-Life and Quality Attributes of Dried Chili 
Fish Paste Stored in Different Packaging Containers.

Pongsetkul J(1), Benjakul S(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Animal Technology and Innovation, Institute of Agricultural 
Technology, Suranaree University of Technology, Nakhon Ratchasima 30000, 
Thailand.
(2)International Center of Excellence in Seafood Science and Innovation, Faculty 
of Agro-Industry, Prince of Songkla University, Hat Yai 90110, Thailand.

This study was carried out to assess the quality changes and shelf-life of dried 
chili fish paste treated with 0.1% sodium benzoate (SB) and stored in various 
packaging containers, including polypropylene (PP+SB), 
polyethylene-terephthalate (PET+SB), and LLDPE-aluminum Ziplock bag (ZL+SB) 
during 20-week storage at room temperature (25-28 °C) compared with samples 
without preservatives (PP, PET, and ZL). The result found that samples treated 
with 0.1% SB exhibited slower rate of quality changes throughout storage, 
including pH, browning index, oxidation products, as well as microorganisms, 
etc. These samples can store at room temperature for at least 20 weeks without 
any spoilage. Moreover, the sensorial scores of them, assessed by 50 untrained 
panelists who were familiar with this product, were more than 7.0 in all 
aspects, for example, color, flavor, and texture. In contrast, samples without 
preservatives, which revealed the higher rate of the changes in all quality 
characteristics, underwent spoilage during 20-week storage at different times 
depending on the packaging container. The shelf-life of PP, PET, and ZL were 6, 
10, and 10 weeks, respectively, as indicated by the excess of total 
microorganisms (>1.00 × 104 CFU/g sample). Overall, the results indicated that 
using sodium benzoate at the level of 0.1% can effectively extend the shelf-life 
of dried chili fish paste for at least 5 months with prime quality.

DOI: 10.3390/foods10081802
PMCID: PMC8391388
PMID: 34441582

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


614. J Clin Med. 2021 Aug 13;10(16):3569. doi: 10.3390/jcm10163569.

Management of Low-Risk Thyroid Cancers: Is Active Surveillance a Valid Option? A 
Systematic Review of the Literature.

Patrone R(1), Velotti N(2), Masone S(3), Conzo A(4), Flagiello L(4), Cacciatore 
C(4), Filardo M(5), Granata V(6), Izzo F(7), Testa D(8), Avenia S(9), 
Sanguinetti A(10), Polistena A(11), Conzo G(4).

Author information:
(1)PhD ICHT, 80131 Naples, Italy.
(2)Department of Advanced Biomedical Sciences, University of Naples "Federico 
II", 80131 Naples, Italy.
(3)Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, University of Naples "Federico 
II", 80131 Naples, Italy.
(4)Department of Cardiothoracic Sciences, University of Campania "Luigi 
Vanvitelli", Division of General and Oncologic Surgery, Via Pansini 5, 80131 
Napoli, Italy.
(5)Division of Endocrine Surgery, Department of Oncological and Gastrointestinal 
Surgical Science, University of Study of Padova, Via Giustiniani 2, 35128 Padua, 
Italy.
(6)Radiodiodiagnostic Unit, "Istituto Nazionale Tumori IRCCS Fondazione 
Pascale-IRCCS di Napoli", 80131 Naples, Italy.
(7)Hepatobiliary Surgical Oncology Unit, "Istituto Nazionale Tumori IRCCS 
Fondazione Pascale-IRCCS di Napoli", 80131 Naples, Italy.
(8)Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery Unit, Department of Cardiothoracic 
Sciences, University of Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli", 80100 Naples, Italy.
(9)Scuola di Specializzazione in Chirurgia Generale, Università degli Studi di 
Perugia, 06123 Perugia, Italy.
(10)1SC Chirurgia Generale e Specialità Chirurgiche, Azienda Ospedaliera S. 
Maria, 05100 Terni, Italy.
(11)UOC Chirurgia Generale e Laparoscopica, Dipartimento di Chirurgia Pietro 
Valdoni, Sapienza Università di Roma, Policlinico Umberto I, 00185 Roma, Italy.

Thyroid cancer is the most common endocrine malignancy, representing 2.9% of all 
new cancers in the United States. It has an excellent prognosis, with a 
five-year relative survival rate of 98.3%.Differentiated Thyroid Carcinomas 
(DTCs) are the most diagnosed thyroid tumors and are characterized by a slow 
growth rate and indolent course. For years, the only approach to treatment was 
thyroidectomy. Active surveillance (AS) has recently emerged as an alternative 
approach; it involves regular observation aimed at recognizing the minority of 
patients who will clinically progress and would likely benefit from rescue 
surgery. To better clarify the indications for active surveillance for low-risk 
thyroid cancers, we reviewed the current management of low-risk DTCs with a 
systematic search performed according to a PRISMA flowchart in electronic 
databases (PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus, and EMBASE) for studies published 
before May 2021. Fourteen publications were included for final analysis, with a 
total number of 4830 patients under AS. A total of 451/4830 (9.4%) patients 
experienced an increase in maximum diameter by >3 mm; 609/4830 (12.6%) patients 
underwent delayed surgery after AS; metastatic spread to cervical lymph nodes 
was present in 88/4213 (2.1%) patients; 4/3589 (0.1%) patients had metastatic 
disease outside of cervical lymph nodes. Finally, no subject had a documented 
mortality due to thyroid cancer during AS. Currently, the American Thyroid 
Association guidelines do not support AS as the first-line treatment in patients 
with PMC; however, they consider AS to be an effective alternative, particularly 
in patients with high surgical risk or poor life expectancy due to comorbid 
conditions. Thus, AS could be an alternative to immediate surgery for patients 
with very-low-risk tumors showing no cytologic evidence of aggressive disease, 
for high-risk surgical candidates, for those with concurrent comorbidities 
requiring urgent intervention, and for patients with a relatively short life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm10163569
PMCID: PMC8397017
PMID: 34441866

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


615. J Pers Med. 2021 Jul 22;11(8):697. doi: 10.3390/jpm11080697.

Treatment-Free Remission-A New Aim in the Treatment of Chronic Myeloid Leukemia.

Kwaśnik P(1), Giannopoulos K(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Hematooncology, Medical University of Lublin, 
20-093 Lublin, Poland.
(2)Department of Hematology, St John's Cancer Center, 20-090 Lublin, Poland.

Tyrosine kinases inhibitors (TKIs) revolutionized chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) 
treatment for many years, prolonging patients' life expectancy to be comparable 
to age-matched healthy individuals. According to the latest the European 
LeukemiaNet (ELN) recommendations, CML treatment aims to achieve long-term 
remission without treatment (TFR), which is feasible in more than 40% of 
patients. Nearly all molecular relapses occur during the first 6 months after 
TKI withdrawal and do not progress to clinical relapse. The mechanisms that are 
responsible for CML relapses remain unexplained. It is suggested that 
maintaining TFR is not directly related to the total disposing of the gene 
transcript BCR-ABL1, but it might be a result of the restoration of the immune 
surveillance in CML. The importance of the involvement of immunocompetent cells 
in the period of TKI withdrawal is also emphasized by the presence of specific 
symptoms in some patients with "withdrawal syndrome". The goal of this review is 
to analyze data from studies regarding TFRs in order to characterize the 
elements of the immune system of patients that might prevent CML molecular 
relapse. The role of modern droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) 
and next-generation sequencing (NGS) in better identification of low levels of 
BCR-ABL1 transcripts was also taken into consideration for refining the 
eligibility criteria to stop TKI therapy.

DOI: 10.3390/jpm11080697
PMCID: PMC8399881
PMID: 34442340

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


616. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Aug 6;18(16):8330. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18168330.

Cost-Effectiveness of Colorectal Cancer Genetic Testing.

Ramdzan AR(1)(2), Manaf MRA(1), Aizuddin AN(1), Latiff ZA(3), Teik KW(4), Ch'ng 
GS(4), Ganasegeran K(5), Aljunid SM(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Kebangsaan 
Malaysia, Jalan Yaacob Latif, Bandar Tun Razak, Cheras, Kuala Lumpur 56000, 
Malaysia.
(2)Department of Public Health Medicine, University of Malaysia Sabah, Jalan 
UMS, Kota Kinabalu 88400, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Paediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Kebangsaan 
Malaysia, Jalan Yaacob Latif, Bandar Tun Razak, Cheras, Kuala Lumpur 56000, 
Malaysia.
(4)Genetic Department, Hospital Kuala Lumpur, Jalan Pahang, Kuala Lumpur 50586, 
Malaysia.
(5)Clinical Research Center, Seberang Jaya Hospital, Ministry of Health 
Malaysia, Penang 13700, Malaysia.
(6)Department of Health Policy and Management, Kuwait University, 320 St, 
Hawally 13110, Kuwait.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains the second leading cause of cancer-related 
deaths worldwide. Approximately 3-5% of CRCs are associated with hereditary 
cancer syndromes. Individuals who harbor germline mutations are at an increased 
risk of developing early onset CRC, as well as extracolonic tumors. Genetic 
testing can identify genes that cause these syndromes. Early detection could 
facilitate the initiation of targeted prevention strategies and surveillance for 
CRC patients and their families. The aim of this study was to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of CRC genetic testing. We utilized a cross-sectional design 
to determine the cost-effectiveness of CRC genetic testing as compared to the 
usual screening method (iFOBT) from the provider's perspective. Data on costs 
and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of 200 CRC patients from three 
specialist general hospitals were collected. A mixed-methods approach of 
activity-based costing, top-down costing, and extracted information from a 
clinical pathway was used to estimate provider costs. Patients and family 
members' HRQoL were measured using the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire. Data from the 
Malaysian Study on Cancer Survival (MySCan) were used to calculate patient 
survival. Cost-effectiveness was measured as cost per life-year (LY) and cost 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). The provider cost for CRC genetic testing 
was high as compared to that for the current screening method. The current 
practice for screening is cost-saving as compared to genetic testing. Using a 
10-year survival analysis, the estimated number of LYs gained for CRC patients 
through genetic testing was 0.92 years, and the number of QALYs gained was 1.53 
years. The cost per LY gained and cost per QALY gained were calculated. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) showed that genetic testing 
dominates iFOBT testing. CRC genetic testing is cost-effective and could be 
considered as routine CRC screening for clinical practice.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18168330
PMCID: PMC8394708
PMID: 34444091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


617. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Aug 7;18(16):8374. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18168374.

Pickleball for Inactive Mid-Life and Older Adults in Rural Utah: A Feasibility 
Study.

Wray P(1), Ward CK(2), Nelson C(3), Sulzer SH(4), Dakin CJ(4), Thompson BJ(4), 
Vierimaa M(5), Das Gupta D(4), Bolton DAE(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Home and Community, Utah State University Extension, 
Monticello, San Juan County, UT 84535, USA.
(2)Department of Home and Community, Utah State University Extension, Panguitch, 
Garfield County, UT 84759, USA.
(3)Department of Home and Community, Utah State University Extension, Beaver, 
Beaver County, UT 84713, USA.
(4)Department of Kinesiology and Health Science, Utah State University, Logan, 
UT 84322, USA.
(5)School of Kinesiology, Acadia University, Wolfville, NS B4P 2R6, Canada.

Many diseases, disabilities, and mental health conditions associated with aging 
can be delayed or prevented through regular exercise. Several barriers to 
exercise, many of which are exacerbated in rural communities, prevent mid-life 
and older adults from accessing its benefits. However, recently, a racquet sport 
named pickleball has become popular among older adults, and it appears to 
overcome some of these barriers. We conducted a feasibility study to evaluate 
the impact of a six-week pickleball intervention on measures of muscle function, 
cognitive function, perceived pain, and cardio-metabolic risk, as well as 
several psychosocial factors contributing to adherence in sedentary rural 
participants. Participants improved their vertical jump, cognitive performance, 
and reported a decrease in self-reported pain, suggesting improved physical and 
cognitive health across the sample. Participants also reported high levels of 
satisfaction and demonstrated good adherence over the duration of the study. 
Perhaps of greatest value was the overwhelmingly positive response from 
participants to the intervention and follow-up interviews reporting a desire to 
continue pickleball play beyond the study period. Overall, pickleball appears to 
be a promising intervention to, (1) elicit functional- and cognitive-related 
improvements, and (2) motivate mid-life and older adults to adhere to exercise 
sufficiently long to benefit their health.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18168374
PMCID: PMC8391496
PMID: 34444124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


618. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Aug 11;18(16):8473. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18168473.

Cost-Utility Analysis of Antibiotic Therapy versus Appendicectomy for Acute 
Uncomplicated Appendicitis.

Ali A(1), Mobarak Z(2), Al-Jumaily M(2), Anwar M(2), Moti Z(2), Zaman N(1), 
Akbari AR(3), de Preux L(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College London, London SW7 2AZ, UK.
(2)Business School, Imperial College London, London SW7 2AZ, UK.
(3)Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health, University of Manchester, Manchester 
M13 9PL, UK.
(4)Department of Economics and Public Policy, Business School, Imperial College 
London, London SW7 2AZ, UK.
