2,165,424.5 DALYs for COVID-19 were estimated. The total DALYs were the highest 
in people between 50 and 59 years. The DALYs for each COVID-19 case were the 
highest in individuals between 60 and 79 years. Conclusion: The DALYs generated 
by the COVID-19 represent a more significant disease burden than that reported 
for other causes, such as the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic. Although it impacts 
all age groups in terms of disability, the most affected group are people over 
50 years of age, whose risk of death is higher.

Copyright © 2021 Salinas-Escudero, Toledano-Toledano, García-Peña, 
Parra-Rodríguez, Granados-García and Carrillo-Vega.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2021.686700
PMCID: PMC8415975
PMID: 34485216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


761. J Cogn Enhanc. 2021 Jun;5(2):259-265. doi: 10.1007/s41465-020-00197-x. Epub
2020  Oct 29.

Exploring Individuals' Willingness to Engage in Interventions to Improve 
Cognitive Health and Prolong Late-Life Independence: An Extension of Harrell, 
Kmetz, and Boot (2019).

Onafraychuk D(1), Sanders EC(1), Harrell ER(1), Boot WR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Florida State University, Tallahassee, FL, USA.

Interventions designed to preserve cognition have become increasingly popular as 
our population ages. In exploring intervention effectiveness, however, 
researchers have often overlooked a potentially important factor: willingness to 
engage. Recent findings from Harrell, Kmetz, Boot (2019) showed that perceived 
cognitive deficits and perceived training efficacy were significant predictors 
of willingness to engage in a brain training intervention designed to preserve 
cognition. However, they did not explore another potentially important factor: 
anticipated intervention enjoyment. In the current study, younger, middle-aged, 
and older adults (N = 169) completed surveys that assessed their willingness to 
engage in different types of training (aerobic exercise, brain, meditation) to 
improve cognition and the extent that factors such as health, perceived 
cognitive deficits, belief in training efficacy, and personality contributed to 
willingness to engage. Participants reported being least willing to engage in 
meditation training and meditation training was rated by participants as the 
least likely to improve cognition. Anticipated training enjoyment was the 
overriding factor that predicted willingness. These findings provide additional 
insights into why, and for how long, individuals may be willing to engage in 
training to prolong independence and have implications for understanding 
intervention adoption and adherence.

DOI: 10.1007/s41465-020-00197-x
PMCID: PMC8415010
PMID: 34485809

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Statement: On behalf of all 
authors, the corresponding author states that there is no conflict of interest.


762. Front Sports Act Living. 2021 Aug 18;3:616427. doi:
10.3389/fspor.2021.616427.  eCollection 2021.

Football and Ice Hockey Fans' Experience of a 12-Week Training and Weight-Loss 
Pilot Intervention (ViSiT) in Sweden-A Focus Group Study.

Skagerström J(1), Hjertstedt M(2), Dannapfel P(3), Müssener U(3), Leijon M(4).

Author information:
(1)Unit for Research and Development, Department of Health, Medicine and Caring 
Sciences, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden.
(2)Unit for Human Resources, Department of Medical and Health Sciences, 
Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden.
(3)Department of Health, Medicine and Caring Sciences, Linköping University, 
Linköping, Sweden.
(4)Department of Medical and Health Sciences, Centre for Organizational Support 
and Development, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden.

Background: Excess weight is associated with an increased risk of poor health 
and premature mortality. This is more problematic for men than for women because 
men have a lower life expectancy and a higher prevalence of several 
lifestyle-related diseases. A concept whereby overweight male supporters of 
professional football clubs are recruited and offered a weight-loss intervention 
has been developed in Scotland. In the present study, we explore participants' 
experiences of a similar pilot intervention, called ViSiT, conducted with 
supporters in one ice hockey club and one football club in Sweden to assess the 
feasibility of using the intervention in a Swedish context. Methods: In this 
user centered evaluation, focus groups were conducted with 12 men who had 
completed the 12-week ViSiT intervention. Participants discussed reasons for 
participating in and completing the intervention, effects of the intervention, 
advantages, and areas of improvement of the intervention, and thoughts on the 
club's involvement. The material was analyzed using thematic analysis according 
to Braun and Clarke. Results: The analyses revealed four themes: reasons to 
participate, motivation and reinforcement, change of habit, and areas for 
improvement. The intervention was seen as an opportunity to change daily 
lifestyle behaviors. The group format, as well as the involvement of a 
prestigious sports club, was important for signing up to the intervention and 
for motivating continued involvement. The intervention had also resulted in 
increased knowledge on health and changed mindsets about being more attentive to 
regulating day-to-day behavior. Although the overall feedback on the 
intervention was positive, the participants suggested that possibilities to have 
more individual coaching should be added. Conclusions: The ViSiT weight loss and 
lifestyle intervention may be feasible in a Swedish context to reach overweight 
men at risk of poor health. The ice hockey and football club supporters 
expressed similar experiences from participating in the intervention. ViSiT seem 
to have a potential to be adopted by many sports clubs for a widespread reach to 
a group normally considered reluctant to participate in lifestyle change 
programs.

Copyright © 2021 Skagerström, Hjertstedt, Dannapfel, Müssener and Leijon.

DOI: 10.3389/fspor.2021.616427
PMCID: PMC8416276
PMID: 34485899

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


763. J Vet Intern Med. 2021 Sep;35(5):2359-2365. doi: 10.1111/jvim.16255. Epub
2021  Sep 5.

A retrospective case series of clinical signs in 28 Beagles with Lafora disease.

Flegel T(1), Kornberg M(2), Mühlhause F(2), Neumann S(2), Fischer A(3), 
Wielaender F(3), König F(4), Pakozdy A(5), Quitt PR(6), Trapp AM(6), Jurina 
K(6), Steffen F(7), Rentmeister KW(8), Flieshardt C(9), Dietzel J(1).

Author information:
(1)Small Animal Department, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Leipzig University, 
Leipzig, Germany.
(2)AniCura Small Animal Clinic Trier, Trier, Germany.
(3)Centre for Clinical Veterinary Medicine, LMU Munich, Munich, Germany.
(4)Small Animal Practice, Neurology, Wiesbaden, Germany.
(5)University Clinic for Small Animals, University of Veterinary Medicine, 
Vienna, Austria.
(6)AniCura Tierklinik Haar, Germany.
(7)Neurology Service, Department of Small Animals, Vetsuisse Faculty, University 
of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(8)Specialty Practice for Veterinary Neurology and Neurosurgery, Dettelbach, 
Germany.
(9)Small Animal Clinic, Tierklinik Posthausen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Clinical signs and their progression in Beagles with Lafora disease 
are poorly described.
OBJECTIVES: To describe clinical signs in Beagles with Lafora disease.
ANIMALS: Twenty-eight Beagles with Lafora disease confirmed by genetic testing 
or histopathology.
METHODS: Retrospective multicenter case series. Data regarding signalment, 
clinical signs, diagnostic tests and treatment were retrieved from hospital data 
files. A questionnaire was sent to owners asking about neurological deficits, 
changes in cognitive functions, behavioral changes, response to treatment and 
survival time.
RESULTS: Onset of clinical signs was 8.3 years (mean; range, 6.3-13.3). All dogs 
had myoclonic episodes as an initial clinical sign with tonic-clonic seizures in 
n = 11/28 (39%) and n = 12/28 (43%) later developing tonic-clonic seizures. 
Deficits of coordination (n = 21/25; 84%), impaired vision (n = 15/26; 58%), and 
impaired hearing (n = 13/26; 50%) developed later. Mental decline was observed 
as loss of house training (urination; n = 8/25; 32%), difficulties performing 
learned tasks (n = 9/25; 36%), and difficulties learning new tasks (n = 7/23; 
30%). Common behavioral changes were: increased photosensitivity (n = 20/26; 
77%), staring into space (n = 16/25; 64%), reduced stress resistance (n = 15/26; 
58%), increased noise sensitivity (n = 14/26; 54%), and separation anxiety 
(n = 11/25; 44%). Twenty-one dogs were alive (median age 11.9 years; range, 
9.8-18.6), and 7 dogs were dead (mean age 12.1 years; SD: 1.3; range, 10.5-12.6) 
at time of writing.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL IMPORTANCE: Lafora disease in Beagles causes 
significant behavioral changes, and mental decline as well as neurological 
deficits in addition to myoclonic episodes and generalized tonic-clonic 
seizures. Nevertheless, a relatively normal life span can be expected.

© 2021 The Authors. Journal of Veterinary Internal Medicine published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC on behalf of American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/jvim.16255
PMCID: PMC8478043
PMID: 34486182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors declare no conflict of interest.


764. Neurodegener Dis Manag. 2021 Oct;11(5):387-409. doi: 10.2217/nmt-2021-0014.
Epub  2021 Sep 16.

An updated review of teriflunomide's use in multiple sclerosis.

Miller AE(1).

Author information:
(1)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York City, NY 10029, USA.

Teriflunomide, a once daily, oral disease-modifying therapy, has demonstrated 
consistent efficacy, safety and tolerability in patients with relapsing forms of 
multiple sclerosis (MS) and with a first clinical episode suggestive of MS 
treated up to 12 years. This review is an update to a previous version that 
examined data from the teriflunomide core clinical development program and 
extension studies. Data have since become available from active comparator 
trials with other disease-modifying therapies, treatment-related changes in 
brain volume (analyzed using structural image evaluation using normalization of 
atrophy) and real-world evidence including patient-reported outcomes. Initial 
data on the potential antiviral effects of teriflunomide in patients with MS, 
including case reports of patients infected with the 2019 novel coronavirus 
(SARS-CoV-2), are also presented.

Plain Language Summary: Lay abstract Teriflunomide, a treatment taken orally 
once a day, has shown consistent effectiveness and safety in patients with 
relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS). This review is an update to a 
previous version that summarized the trials from when teriflunomide was in 
clinical development for MS. Some of the newer studies described here compared 
teriflunomide with other MS treatments. Studies have shown positive effects of 
teriflunomide on brain volume; teriflunomide may also be effective against some 
viruses. People taking teriflunomide generally report stable cognition and 
quality of life, with no worsening of fatigue or disability. In the EU, 
teriflunomide has been recently approved for use in pediatric patients 10 years 
of age and above.

DOI: 10.2217/nmt-2021-0014
PMID: 34486382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2021 Aug;25(16):5129-5136. doi: 
10.26355/eurrev_202108_26525.

Early outcome of anatomical lung resection for non-small cell lung cancer in the 
elderly.

Patella M(1), Tessitore A, Cianfarani A, Minerva EM, Cafarotti S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, San Giovanni Hospital, Ente Ospedaliero 
Cantonale Bellinzona, Bellinzona, Switzerland and Università della Svizzera 
Italiana, Lugano, Switzerland. Stefano.cafarotti@eoc.ch.

OBJECTIVE: Surgery is the mainstay of early-stage lung cancer treatment. 
However, since life expectancy is constantly increasing, we wanted to 
investigate whether this principle also applies to elderly (≥70-year-old) 
patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We analyzed a prospectively maintained database on 
anatomical lung resections at our institute. Patients were divided in two 
groups: <70 years and ≥70 years (elderly). Outcome indicators were postoperative 
cardiopulmonary complications rate and 30-day readmission rate. Baseline and 
surgical characteristics were compared by mean of t-test, Mann-Whitney U test, 
chi2 and Fisher exact tests. Propensity score matching was performed to account 
for differences between groups in the outcome's analysis.
RESULTS: We selected 241 patients with lung cancer (2017-2021) who underwent 
anatomical lung resections. Median age was 70.5 (IQR: 64-76). 133 patients (54%) 
aged 70 and above. Patients and surgical characteristics (comorbidities, lung 
function, performance status, type and extension of lung resection and surgical 
approach) were similar among groups, except for atrial fibrillation (p=0.01) and 
previous cancer history (p<0.0001) which were more frequent in the elderly 
group. Non-elderly patients were more frequently active smokers (p<0.0001). 
Cardiopulmonary complications rate was 23%, 30-day readmission rate was 12.6%. 
We did not observe any significant difference in all the short-term outcome 
indicators between the elderly and the younger counterpart. Particularly, 
complications rate (p=0.91) and 30-day readmission (p=0.84) did not differ 
between groups.
CONCLUSIONS: In our series, short-term outcomes are not compromised in elderly 
patients. The evolution in surgical strategy and expertise contribute to offer 
surgical resection with curative intent for lung cancer to a large spectrum of 
patients.

DOI: 10.26355/eurrev_202108_26525
PMID: 34486687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2021 Jul;29(4):871-876.
doi:  10.32687/0869-866X-2021-29-4-871-876.

[The methodological approaches to classification of diseases of blood 
circulation system according to severity degree based on statistic data of 
population appealing for medical care].

[Article in Russian]

Zaitseva NV(1), Kiryanov DA(1), Tsinker MY(2), Babina SV(1).

Author information:
(1)The Federal State Budget Institution of Science "The Federal Research Center 
of Medical Preventive Technologies of Management of Health Risks of Population" 
of the Rospotrebnadzor of Russia, 614045, Perm, Russia.
(2)The Federal State Budget Institution of Science "The Federal Research Center 
of Medical Preventive Technologies of Management of Health Risks of Population" 
of the Rospotrebnadzor of Russia, 614045, Perm, Russia, cinker@fcrisk.ru.

In The Russian Federation, increasing of life expectancy and decreasing of 
mortality related to diseases of circulatory system are the priorities of state 
policy. The purpose of study was to develop approaches to the classification of 
cardiovascular diseases by severity degree within the framework of development 
of general health management model based on health care activities at the 
regional level. The article describes methodology of calculating indices of 
cardiovascular diseases severity based on statistical data of appealability for 
out-patient, in-patient and emergency medical care. The set of balancing 
coefficients reflecting input of rate of accessing for various types of medical 
care, as well as aggravating input of concomitant pathology, based on expert 
evaluation of cardiologists involved is presented. On the basis of analysis of 
distribution of severity index in standard region of the Russian Federation, the 
system of criteria was developed to classify cardiovascular diseases (according 
to ICD-10 sub-classes) on four degrees of severity. The approbation of the 
proposed method demonstrated adequacy of the results obtained to judging of 
experts (cardiologists). So, in standard region of the Russian Federation, in 
the class of diseases of circulatory system (I00-I99), 79.6% of all cases are of 
first degree of severity, 8.6% of cases are of second degree of severity, 3.8% 
of cases are of third degree, and 8% of cases are of fourth degree. The 
methodology is unified and can be applied to classify entire spectrum of 
diseases by degree of severity. Besides, the proposed methodological approaches 
are suitable to be applied in population health management at the municipal, 
regional and national levels in the Russian Federation.

DOI: 10.32687/0869-866X-2021-29-4-871-876
PMID: 34486851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Clin Exp Metastasis. 2021 Oct;38(5):475-481. doi:
10.1007/s10585-021-10122-x.  Epub 2021 Sep 6.

SBRT for elderly oligometastatic patients as a feasible, safe and effective 
treatment opportunity.

Cuccia F(1), Mazzola R(2), Pastorello E(2), Figlia V(2), Giaj-Levra N(2), 
Nicosia L(2), Ricchetti F(2), Rigo M(2), Attinà G(2), Vitale C(2), Ruggieri 
R(2), Alongi F(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Advanced Radiation Oncology Department, IRCCS Sacro Cuore Don Calabria 
Hospital, Negrar Di Valpolicella, VR, Italy. francesco.cuccia@sacrocuore.it.
(2)Advanced Radiation Oncology Department, IRCCS Sacro Cuore Don Calabria 
Hospital, Negrar Di Valpolicella, VR, Italy.
(3)University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.

The constantly increasing life expectancy is raising the issue of treating 
oncological older patients, who were traditionally candidates to best supportive 
care or palliative treatments. Several literature data support SBRT in the 
treatment of the oligometastatic patient as a potentially curable therapeutic 
option. However, data on older patients are lacking. This study presents the 
outcomes of a cohort of 61 oligometastatic patients over the age of 80 years who 
received SBRT, that was proposed to all patients with a minimum Karnofsky 
Performance Status ≥ 70 and a life expectancy of at least 6 months, with up to 
five oligometastatic lesions. Radiotherapy was delivered in 3-10 fractions with 
VMAT-IGRT technique. Toxicity was retrospectively collected according to CTCAE 
v4.0. Data were retrospectively collected and analyzed. Univariate and 
multivariate analysis were performed for assessing any potential predictive 
factor for clinical outcomes. A total of 90 oligometastases were treated in 61 
patients with median age 82 years (range, 80-90). The most frequent histology 
was colorectal cancer (27% of cases). Median follow-up was 20 months (range, 
2-63). Local control rates at 1- and 2-years were 98.8% and 88.2%, with 
colorectal histology being associated with worse LC rates (p = 0.014) at 
univariate analysis. Progression-free survival rates at 1- and 2-years were 
48.6% and 30.5%. Oligorecurrent lesions and single oligometastases were 
associated with better PFS rates (respectively, p = 0.04 and p = 0.011). Overall 
survival rates were 75% and 60.5%, polymetastatic spread being predictive of 
worse survival outcomes at multivariate analysis (p = 0.012). No G2 or higher 
adverse events were recorded. Our study supports the role of SBRT for the 
treatment of elderly oligometastatic patients, highlighting the possibility to 
further explore this therapeutic option in the management of older oncological 
patients.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s10585-021-10122-x
PMID: 34487288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Clin Rev Allergy Immunol. 2023 Jun;64(3):262-283. doi: 
10.1007/s12016-021-08889-8. Epub 2021 Sep 6.

Current Concepts on the Pathogenesis of Systemic Sclerosis.

Truchetet ME(1)(2), Brembilla NC(3), Chizzolini C(4).

Author information:
(1)ImmunoConcEpt, CNRS, UMR 5164, University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.
(2)Rheumatology Department, CHU Bordeaux Hospital, Bordeaux, France.
(3)Pathology and Immunology, School of Medicine, University Medical Center, 
Geneva, Switzerland.
(4)Pathology and Immunology, School of Medicine, University Medical Center, 
Geneva, Switzerland. carlo.chizzolini@unige.ch.

From the clinical standpoint, systemic sclerosis (SSc) is characterized by skin 
and internal organ fibrosis, diffuse fibroproliferative vascular modifications, 
and autoimmunity. Clinical presentation and course are highly heterogenous and 
life expectancy variably affected mostly dependent on lung and heart 
involvement. SSc touches more women than men with differences in disease 
severity and environmental exposure. Pathogenetic events originate from altered 
homeostasis favored by genetic predisposition, environmental cues and a variety 
of endogenous and exogenous triggers. Epigenetic modifications modulate SSc 
pathogenesis which strikingly associate profound immune-inflammatory 
dysregulation, abnormal endothelial cell behavior, and cell 
trans-differentiation into myofibroblasts. SSc myofibroblasts show enhanced 
survival and enhanced extracellular matrix deposition presenting altered 
structure and altered physicochemical properties. Additional cell types of 
likely pathogenic importance are pericytes, platelets, and keratinocytes in 
conjunction with their relationship with vessel wall cells and fibroblasts. In 
SSc, the profibrotic milieu is favored by cell signaling initiated in the one 
hand by transforming growth factor-beta and related cytokines and in the other 
hand by innate and adaptive type 2 immune responses. Radical oxygen species and 
invariant receptors sensing danger participate to altered cell behavior. 
Conventional and SSc-specific T cell subsets modulate both fibroblasts as well 
as endothelial cell dysfunction. Beside autoantibodies directed against 
ubiquitous antigens important for enhanced clinical classification, 
antigen-specific agonistic autoantibodies may have a pathogenic role. Recent 
studies based on single-cell RNAseq and multi-omics approaches are revealing 
unforeseen heterogeneity in SSc cell differentiation and functional states. 
Advances in system biology applied to the wealth of data generated by unbiased 
screening are allowing to subgroup patients based on distinct pathogenic 
mechanisms. Deciphering heterogeneity in pathogenic mechanisms will pave the way 
to highly needed personalized therapeutic approaches.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12016-021-08889-8
PMCID: PMC10167130
PMID: 34487318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


769. J Intern Med. 2022 Apr;291(4):458-468. doi: 10.1111/joim.13371. Epub 2021
Oct 5.

Appropriate care for the elderly in the ICU.

Vincent JL(1), Creteur J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Intensive Care, Erasme University Hospital, Université libre de 
Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.

Life expectancy is rising worldwide and increasing numbers of elderly patients 
are being admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU). Because ageing is 
associated with changes in organ function, increased frailty, reduced activities 
of daily living, reduced mobility, and reduced cognition, elderly patients 
represent a particular subgroup of ICU patients. Ethical decisions related to 
the appropriateness of intensive care and/or life-sustaining interventions, the 
withdrawing and withholding of life support, and terminal sedation are more 
frequent in these patients and will be discussed in this review. Such decisions 
must be tailored to the individual to take into consideration personal beliefs 
and wishes.

© 2021 The Association for the Publication of the Journal of Internal Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/joim.13371
PMID: 34487587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Am J Transplant. 2022 Jan;22(1):274-278. doi: 10.1111/ajt.16830. Epub 2021
Sep  15.

Life expectancy without a transplant for status 1A liver transplant candidates.

Wood NL(1), VanDerwerken DN(1), King EA(2), Segev DL(2)(3), Gentry SE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryland, 
USA.
(2)Department of Surgery, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, Baltimore, 
Maryland, USA.

Status 1A liver transplant candidates are given the highest medical priority for 
the allocation of deceased donor livers. Organ Procurement and Transplantation 
Network (OPTN) policy requires physicians to certify that a candidate has a life 
expectancy without a transplant of less than 7 days for that candidate to be 
given status 1A. Additionally, candidates receiving status 1A must have one of 
six medical conditions listed in policy. Using Scientific Registry of Transplant 
Recipients data from all prevalent liver transplant candidates from 2010 to 
2020, we used a bias-corrected Kaplan-Meier model to calculate the survival of 
status 1A candidates and to determine their life expectancy without a 
transplant. We found that status 1A candidates have a life expectancy without a 
transplant of 24 (95% CI 20-46) days-over three times longer than what policy 
requires for status 1A designation. We repeated the analysis for subgroups of 
status 1A candidates based on the medical conditions that grant status 1A. We 
found that none of these subgroups met the life expectancy requirement. 
Harmonizing OPTN policy with observed data would sustain the integrity of the 
allocation process.

© 2021 The American Society of Transplantation and the American Society of 
Transplant Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ajt.16830
PMCID: PMC8720063
PMID: 34487636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURE The authors of this manuscript have 
no conflicts of interest to disclose as described by the American Journal of 
Transplantation.


771. Lancet Glob Health. 2021 Oct;9(10):e1372-e1379. doi: 
10.1016/S2214-109X(21)00299-0. Epub 2021 Sep 3.

Economic impact of tuberculosis mortality in 120 countries and the cost of not 
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals tuberculosis targets: a full-income 
analysis.

Silva S(1), Arinaminpathy N(2), Atun R(1), Goosby E(3), Reid M(4).

Author information:
(1)Harvard T H Chan School of Public Health, Harvard University, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, School of Public Health, Imperial College London, 
London, UK.
(3)Institute for Global Health Sciences and School of Medicine, University of 
California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(4)Institute for Global Health Sciences and School of Medicine, University of 
California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA. Electronic address: 
michael.reid@ucsf.edu.

Erratum in
    Lancet Glob Health. 2021 Nov;9(11):e1507.

Comment in
    Lancet Glob Health. 2021 Oct;9(10):e1337-e1338.
    Nature. 2021 Oct;598(7882):540.

BACKGROUND: The tuberculosis targets for the UN Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) call for a 90% reduction in tuberculosis deaths by 2030, compared with 
2015, but meeting this target now seems highly improbable. To assess the 
economic impact of not meeting the target until 2045, we estimated full-income 
losses in 120 countries, including those due to excess deaths resulting from 
COVID-19-related disruptions to tuberculosis services, for the period 2020-50.
METHODS: Annual mortality risk changes at each age in each year from 2020 to 
2050 were estimated for 120 countries. This risk change was then converted to 
full-income risk by calculating a population-level mortality risk change and 
multiplying it by the value of a statistical life-year in each country and year. 
As a comparator, we assumed that current rates of tuberculosis continue to 
decline through the period of analysis. We calculated the full-income losses, 
and mean life expectancy losses per person, at birth and at age 35 years, under 
scenarios in which the SDG targets are met in 2030 and in 2045. We defined the 
cost of inaction as the difference in full-income losses and tuberculosis 
mortality between these two scenarios.
FINDINGS: From 2020 to 2050, based on the current annual decrease in 
tuberculosis deaths of 2%, 31·8 million tuberculosis deaths (95% uncertainty 
interval 25·2 million-39·5 million) are estimated to occur, corresponding to an 
economic loss of US$17·5 trillion (14·9 trillion-20·4 trillion). If the SDG 
tuberculosis mortality target is met in 2030, 23·8 million tuberculosis deaths 
(18·9 million-29·5 million) and $13·1 trillion (11·2 trillion-15·3 trillion) in 
economic losses can be avoided. If the target is met in 2045, 18·1 million 
tuberculosis deaths (14·3 million-22·4 million) and $10·2 trillion (8·7 
trillion-11·8 trillion) can be avoided. The cost of inaction of not meeting the 
SDG tuberculosis mortality target until 2045 (vs 2030) is, therefore, 5·7 
million tuberculosis deaths (5·1 million-8·1 million) and $3·0 trillion (2·5 
trillion-3·5 trillion) in economic losses. COVID-19-related disruptions add 
$290·3 billion (260·2 billion-570·1 billion) to this cost.
INTERPRETATION: Failure to achieve the SDG tuberculosis mortality target by 2030 
will lead to profound economic and health losses. The effects of delay will be 
greatest in sub-Saharan Africa. Affected countries, donor nations, and the 
private sector should redouble efforts to finance tuberculosis programmes and 
research because the economic dividend of such strategies is likely to be 
substantial.
FUNDING: None.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2214-109X(21)00299-0
PMCID: PMC8415897
PMID: 34487685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests We declare no competing 
interests.


772. Lancet Neurol. 2021 Oct;20(10):795-820. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(21)00252-0.
Epub  2021 Sep 3.

Global, regional, and national burden of stroke and its risk factors, 1990-2019: 
a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019.

GBD 2019 Stroke Collaborators.

Collaborators: Feigin VL, Stark BA, Johnson CO, Roth GA, Bisignano C, Abady GG, 
Abbasifard M, Abbasi-Kangevari M, Abd-Allah F, Abedi V, Abualhasan A, 
Abu-Rmeileh NM, Abushouk AI, Adebayo OM, Agarwal G, Agasthi P, Ahinkorah BO, 
Ahmad S, Ahmadi S, Ahmed Salih Y, Aji B, Akbarpour S, Akinyemi RO, Al Hamad H, 
Alahdab F, Alif SM, Alipour V, Aljunid SM, Almustanyir S, Al-Raddadi RM, 
Al-Shahi Salman R, Alvis-Guzman N, Ancuceanu R, Anderlini D, Anderson JA, Ansar 
A, Antonazzo IC, Arabloo J, Ärnlöv J, Artanti KD, Aryan Z, Asgari S, Ashraf T, 
Athar M, Atreya A, Ausloos M, Baig AA, Baltatu OC, Banach M, Barboza MA, 
Barker-Collo SL, Bärnighausen TW, Barone MTU, Basu S, Bazmandegan G, Beghi E, 
Beheshti M, Béjot Y, Bell AW, Bennett DA, Bensenor IM, Bezabhe WM, Bezabih YM, 
Bhagavathula AS, Bhardwaj P, Bhattacharyya K, Bijani A, Bikbov B, Birhanu MM, 
Boloor A, Bonny A, Brauer M, Brenner H, Bryazka D, Butt ZA, Caetano Dos Santos 
FL, Campos-Nonato IR, Cantu-Brito C, Carrero JJ, Castañeda-Orjuela CA, Catapano 
AL, Chakraborty PA, Charan J, Choudhari SG, Chowdhury EK, Chu DT, Chung SC, 
Colozza D, Costa VM, Costanzo S, Criqui MH, Dadras O, Dagnew B, Dai X, Dalal K, 
Damasceno AAM, D'Amico E, Dandona L, Dandona R, Darega Gela J, Davletov K, De la 
Cruz-Góngora V, Desai R, Dhamnetiya D, Dharmaratne SD, Dhimal ML, Dhimal M, Diaz 
D, Dichgans M, Dokova K, Doshi R, Douiri A, Duncan BB, Eftekharzadeh S, 
Ekholuenetale M, El Nahas N, Elgendy IY, Elhadi M, El-Jaafary SI, Endres M, 
Endries AY, Erku DA, Faraon EJA, Farooque U, Farzadfar F, Feroze AH, Filip I, 
Fischer F, Flood D, Gad MM, Gaidhane S, Ghanei Gheshlagh R, Ghashghaee A, Ghith 
N, Ghozali G, Ghozy S, Gialluisi A, Giampaoli S, Gilani SA, Gill PS, Gnedovskaya 
EV, Golechha M, Goulart AC, Guo Y, Gupta R, Gupta VB, Gupta VK, Gyanwali P, 
Hafezi-Nejad N, Hamidi S, Hanif A, Hankey GJ, Hargono A, Hashi A, Hassan TS, 
Hassen HY, Havmoeller RJ, Hay SI, Hayat K, Hegazy MI, Herteliu C, Holla R, 
Hostiuc S, Househ M, Huang J, Humayun A, Hwang BF, Iacoviello L, Iavicoli I, 
Ibitoye SE, Ilesanmi OS, Ilic IM, Ilic MD, Iqbal U, Irvani SSN, Islam SMS, 
Ismail NE, Iso H, Isola G, Iwagami M, Jacob L, Jain V, Jang SI, Jayapal SK, 
Jayaram S, Jayawardena R, Jeemon P, Jha RP, Johnson WD, Jonas JB, Joseph N, 
Jozwiak JJ, Jürisson M, Kalani R, Kalhor R, Kalkonde Y, Kamath A, Kamiab Z, 
Kanchan T, Kandel H, Karch A, Katoto PD, Kayode GA, Keshavarz P, Khader YS, Khan 
EA, Khan IA, Khan M, Khan MA, Khatib MN, Khubchandani J, Kim GR, Kim MS, Kim YJ, 
Kisa A, Kisa S, Kivimäki M, Kolte D, Koolivand A, Koulmane Laxminarayana SL, 
Koyanagi A, Krishan K, Krishnamoorthy V, Krishnamurthi RV, Kumar GA, Kusuma D, 
La Vecchia C, Lacey B, Lak HM, Lallukka T, Lasrado S, Lavados PM, Leonardi M, Li 
B, Li S, Lin H, Lin RT, Liu X, Lo WD, Lorkowski S, Lucchetti G, Lutzky Saute R, 
Magdy Abd El Razek H, Magnani FG, Mahajan PB, Majeed A, Makki A, Malekzadeh R, 
Malik AA, Manafi N, Mansournia MA, Mantovani LG, Martini S, Mazzaglia G, 
Mehndiratta MM, Menezes RG, Meretoja A, Mersha AG, Miao Jonasson J, Miazgowski 
B, Miazgowski T, Michalek IM, Mirrakhimov EM, Mohammad Y, Mohammadian-Hafshejani 
A, Mohammed S, Mokdad AH, Mokhayeri Y, Molokhia M, Moni MA, Montasir AA, 
Moradzadeh R, Morawska L, Morze J, Muruet W, Musa KI, Nagarajan AJ, Naghavi M, 
Narasimha Swamy S, Nascimento BR, Negoi RI, Neupane Kandel S, Nguyen TH, 
Norrving B, Noubiap JJ, Nwatah VE, Oancea B, Odukoya OO, Olagunju AT, Orru H, 
Owolabi MO, Padubidri JR, Pana A, Parekh T, Park EC, Pashazadeh Kan F, Pathak M, 
Peres MFP, Perianayagam A, Pham TM, Piradov MA, Podder V, Polinder S, Postma MJ, 
Pourshams A, Radfar A, Rafiei A, Raggi A, Rahim F, Rahimi-Movaghar V, Rahman M, 
Rahman MA, Rahmani AM, Rajai N, Ranasinghe P, Rao CR, Rao SJ, Rathi P, Rawaf DL, 
Rawaf S, Reitsma MB, Renjith V, Renzaho AMN, Rezapour A, Rodriguez JAB, Roever 
L, Romoli M, Rynkiewicz A, Sacco S, Sadeghi M, Saeedi Moghaddam S, Sahebkar A, 
Saif-Ur-Rahman KM, Salah R, Samaei M, Samy AM, Santos IS, Santric-Milicevic MM, 
Sarrafzadegan N, Sathian B, Sattin D, Schiavolin S, Schlaich MP, Schmidt MI, 
Schutte AE, Sepanlou SG, Seylani A, Sha F, Shahabi S, Shaikh MA, Shannawaz M, 
Shawon MSR, Sheikh A, Sheikhbahaei S, Shibuya K, Siabani S, Silva DAS, Singh JA, 
Singh JK, Skryabin VY, Skryabina AA, Sobaih BH, Stortecky S, Stranges S, Tadesse 
EG, Tarigan IU, Temsah MH, Teuschl Y, Thrift AG, Tonelli M, Tovani-Palone MR, 
Tran BX, Tripathi M, Tsegaye GW, Ullah A, Unim B, Unnikrishnan B, Vakilian A, 
Valadan Tahbaz S, Vasankari TJ, Venketasubramanian N, Vervoort D, Vo B, Volovici 
V, Vosoughi K, Vu GT, Vu LG, Wafa HA, Waheed Y, Wang Y, Wijeratne T, Winkler AS, 
Wolfe CDA, Woodward M, Wu JH, Wulf Hanson S, Xu X, Yadav L, Yadollahpour A, 
Yahyazadeh Jabbari SH, Yamagishi K, Yatsuya H, Yonemoto N, Yu C, Yunusa I, Zaman 
MS, Zaman SB, Zamanian M, Zand R, Zandifar A, Zastrozhin MS, Zastrozhina A, 
Zhang Y, Zhang ZJ, Zhong C, Zuniga YMH, Murray CJL.

Comment in
    Lancet Neurol. 2021 Oct;20(10):774-775.

BACKGROUND: Regularly updated data on stroke and its pathological types, 
including data on their incidence, prevalence, mortality, disability, risk 
factors, and epidemiological trends, are important for evidence-based stroke 
care planning and resource allocation. The Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, 
and Risk Factors Study (GBD) aims to provide a standardised and comprehensive 
measurement of these metrics at global, regional, and national levels.
METHODS: We applied GBD 2019 analytical tools to calculate stroke incidence, 
prevalence, mortality, disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs), and the 
population attributable fraction (PAF) of DALYs (with corresponding 95% 
uncertainty intervals [UIs]) associated with 19 risk factors, for 204 countries 
and territories from 1990 to 2019. These estimates were provided for ischaemic 
stroke, intracerebral haemorrhage, subarachnoid haemorrhage, and all strokes 
combined, and stratified by sex, age group, and World Bank country income level.
FINDINGS: In 2019, there were 12·2 million (95% UI 11·0-13·6) incident cases of 
stroke, 101 million (93·2-111) prevalent cases of stroke, 143 million (133-153) 
DALYs due to stroke, and 6·55 million (6·00-7·02) deaths from stroke. Globally, 
stroke remained the second-leading cause of death (11·6% [10·8-12·2] of total 
deaths) and the third-leading cause of death and disability combined (5·7% 
[5·1-6·2] of total DALYs) in 2019. From 1990 to 2019, the absolute number of 
incident strokes increased by 70·0% (67·0-73·0), prevalent strokes increased by 
85·0% (83·0-88·0), deaths from stroke increased by 43·0% (31·0-55·0), and DALYs 
due to stroke increased by 32·0% (22·0-42·0). During the same period, 
age-standardised rates of stroke incidence decreased by 17·0% (15·0-18·0), 
mortality decreased by 36·0% (31·0-42·0), prevalence decreased by 6·0% 
(5·0-7·0), and DALYs decreased by 36·0% (31·0-42·0). However, among people 
younger than 70 years, prevalence rates increased by 22·0% (21·0-24·0) and 
incidence rates increased by 15·0% (12·0-18·0). In 2019, the age-standardised 
stroke-related mortality rate was 3·6 (3·5-3·8) times higher in the World Bank 
low-income group than in the World Bank high-income group, and the 
age-standardised stroke-related DALY rate was 3·7 (3·5-3·9) times higher in the 
low-income group than the high-income group. Ischaemic stroke constituted 62·4% 
of all incident strokes in 2019 (7·63 million [6·57-8·96]), while intracerebral 
haemorrhage constituted 27·9% (3·41 million [2·97-3·91]) and subarachnoid 
haemorrhage constituted 9·7% (1·18 million [1·01-1·39]). In 2019, the five 
leading risk factors for stroke were high systolic blood pressure (contributing 
to 79·6 million [67·7-90·8] DALYs or 55·5% [48·2-62·0] of total stroke DALYs), 
high body-mass index (34·9 million [22·3-48·6] DALYs or 24·3% [15·7-33·2]), high 
fasting plasma glucose (28·9 million [19·8-41·5] DALYs or 20·2% [13·8-29·1]), 
ambient particulate matter pollution (28·7 million [23·4-33·4] DALYs or 20·1% 
[16·6-23·0]), and smoking (25·3 million [22·6-28·2] DALYs or 17·6% [16·4-19·0]).
INTERPRETATION: The annual number of strokes and deaths due to stroke increased 
substantially from 1990 to 2019, despite substantial reductions in 
age-standardised rates, particularly among people older than 70 years. The 
highest age-standardised stroke-related mortality and DALY rates were in the 
World Bank low-income group. The fastest-growing risk factor for stroke between 
1990 and 2019 was high body-mass index. Without urgent implementation of 
effective primary prevention strategies, the stroke burden will probably 
continue to grow across the world, particularly in low-income countries.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(21)00252-0
PMCID: PMC8443449
PMID: 34487721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests V Feigin reports 
support for the present manuscript from PreventS web app and free Stroke 
Riskometer app, which are owned and copyrighted by Auckland University of 
Technology, New Zealand. V Feigin reports grants received from the Brain 
Research New Zealand Centre of Research Excellence (16/STH/36), National Health 
& Medical Research Council (NHMRC, Australia APP1182071) and World Stroke 
Organization to their institution; leadership or fiduciary role in board, 
society, committee or advocacy group, paid or unpaid with World Stroke 
Organization as Executive Committee member, New Zealand Stroke Education 
(charitable) Trust as CEO, Stroke Central New Zealand as Honorary Medical 
Director, all of which are honorary unpaid roles; all outside the submitted 
work. O Adebayo reports grants or contracts from Merck Foundation; support for 
attending meetings and/or travel from Novartis; all outside the submitted work. 
R Akinyemi reports grants or contracts from NIH (U01HG010273), and GCRF 
(GCRFNGR6\1498), all outside the submitted work. R Ancuceanu consulting fees 
from AbbVie and AstraZeneca; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, 
speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from AbbVie, Sandoz, 
and B. Braun; support for attending meetings and/or travel from AbbVie and 
AstraZeneca; all outside the submitted work. J Ärnlöv reports payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or 
educational events from AstraZeneca and Novartis; participation on a Data Safety 
Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with AstraZeneca and Boehringer Ingelheim; 
all outside the submitted work. Z Aryan reports support for the present 
manuscript from American Heart Association as funding to their institution, and 
from Brigham and Women's Hospital as an employee. M Ausloos reports grants or 
contracts from [Romanian National Authority for Scientific Research and 
Innovation, CNDS-UEFISCDI project number PN-III-P4-ID-PCCF-2016-0084, research 
grant (Oct 2018–Sept 2022), grant title “Understanding and modelling time-space 
patterns of psychology-related inequalities and polarization” outside the 
submitted work. T Bärnighausen reports grants or contracts from Research grants 
from the European Union (Horizon 2020 and EIT Health), German Research 
Foundation (DFG), US National Institutes of Health, German Ministry of Education 
Research, Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, Else-Kröner-Fresenius-Foundation, 
Wellcome Trust, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, KfW, UNAIDS, and WHO; 
consulting fees from KfW on the OSCAR initiative in Vietnam; participation on a 
Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with the NIH-funded study 
“Healthy Options” (PIs: Smith Fawzi, Kaaya), Chair of the Data Safety and 
Monitoring Board (DSMB), German National Committee on the “Future of Public 
Health Research and Education”, Chair of the scientific advisory board to the 
EDCTP Evaluation, Member of the UNAIDS Evaluation Expert Advisory Committee, 
National Institutes of Health Study Section Member on Population and Public 
Health Approaches to HIV/AIDS (PPAH), US National Academies of Sciences, 
Engineering, and Medicine's Committee for the “Evaluation of Human Resources for 
Health in the Republic of Rwanda under the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS 
Relief (PEPFAR)”, and University of Pennsylvania (UPenn) Population Aging 
Research Center (PARC) External Advisory Board Member; leadership or fiduciary 
role in board, society, committee or advocacy group, paid or unpaid as the 
co-chair of the Global Health Hub Germany (which was initiated by the German 
Ministry of Health); all outside the submitted work. E Beghi reports grants or 
contracts from Italian Health Ministry, American ALS Association, and SOBI 
Pharmaceutical Company made to their institution; payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from University of Rochester; support for attending meetings and/or 
travel from ILAE; participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory 
Board with Arvelle Therapeutics; all outside the submitted work. Y Béjot reports 
payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript 
writing or educational events from Medtronic, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Pfizer, BMS, 
Servier, and Amgen; support for attending meetings and/or travel from Servier; 
all outside the submitted work. A Catapano reports grants or contracts from 
Sanofi, Eli Lilly, Mylan, Sanofi Regeneron, Menarini, and Amgen; payment or 
honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or 
educational events from Akcea, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Aegerion, Amryt, Daiichi, 
Sankyo, Esperion, Kowa, Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Mylan, Merck, Menarini, Novartis, 
Recordati, Regeneron, Sandoz, and Sanofi; all outside the submitted work. S 
Costanzo reports grants or contracts from ERAB (the European Foundation for 
Alcohol Research; id. EA1767; 2018–2020 and Italian Ministry of Health (grant 
RF-2018-12367074, CoPI), both paid to their institution; payment or honoraria 
for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from as a member of the Organizing Committee and speaker for the 9th 
European Beer and Health Symposium (Bruxelles 2019) and for given lecture at the 
13th European Nutrition Conference FENS 2019 (Dublin), sponsored by the Beer and 
Health Initiative (The Dutch Beer Institute foundation—The Brewers of Europe); 
all outside the submitted work. M Endres reports grants or contracts from Bayer 
as an unrestricted grant to Charité for MonDAFIS study and Berlin AFib registry; 
consulting fees from Bayer paid to their institution; payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from Bayer, Boehringer Ingelheim, Pfizer, Amgen, GSK, Sanofi, and 
Novartis, all paid to their institution; participation on a Data Safety 
Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with BMS as a Country PI for Axiomatic-SSP, 
Bayer as Country PO for NAVIGATE-ESUS, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Daiichi Sankyo, Amgen, Covidien, with all fees paid to their institution; 
leadership or fiduciary role in board, society, committee or advocacy group, 
paid or unpaid with EAN as part of the Board of Directors, DGN, ISCBFM, AHA/ASA, 
ESO, WSO, DZHK (German Centre of Cardiovascular Research) as a PI, all of which 
are unpaid positions, and with DZNE (German Center of Neurodegenerative 
Diseases) as a paid PI; receipt of PCSK9 inhibitors for mouse studies from 
Amgen; all outside the submitted work. I Filip reports payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from Avicenna Medical and Clinical Research Institute, outside the 
submitted work. A Gialluisi reports grants or contracts from Italian Ministry of 
Economic Development (PLATONE project, bando “Agenda Digitale” PON I&C 
2014–2020; Prog. n. F/080032/01-03/X35) paid to their institution, outside the 
submitted work. C Herteliu reports grants or contracts from Romanian National 
Authority for Scientific Research and Innovation, CNDS-UEFISCDI project number 
PN-III-P4-ID-PCCF-2016-0084 research grant (Oct 2018–Sept 2022) “Understanding 
and modelling time-space patterns of psychology-related inequalities and 
polarization,” and project number PN-III-P2-2.1-SOL-2020-2-0351 research grant 
(June–Oct, 2021) “Approaches within public health management in the context of 
COVID-19 pandemic,” and from the Ministry of Labour and Social Justice, Romania, 
project number 30/PSCD/2018 research grant (Sept 2018–June 2019) “Agenda for 
skills Romania 2020–2025;” all outside the submitted work. S Islam reports 
grants or contracts from National Heart Foundation Vanguard grant, Postdoctoral 
Fellowship and NHMRC Emerging Leadership Fellowship, outside the submitted work. 
Y Kalkonde reports grants or contracts from DBT/Wellcome Trust India Alliance as 
a DBT/Wellcome Trust India Alliance fellow in Public Health (grant number 
IA/CPHI/14/1/501514). M Kivimäki reports support for the present manuscript from 
The Wellcome Trust (221854/Z/20/Z) and Medical Research Council (MR/S011676/1), 
as research grants paid to their institute. K Krishnan reports non-financial 
support from UGC Centre of Advanced Study, Phase II, Department of Anthropology, 
Panjab University, Chandigarh, India, outside the submitted work. P Lavados 
reports grants or contracts from Boehringer Ingelheim as grant support to their 
institute for RECCA stroke registry, and from ANID as personal grant support for 
ADDSPISE trial; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers 
bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from Boehringer Ingelheim as 
personal honoraria for lectures; support for attending meetings and/or travel 
from Boehringer Ingelheim as support for attending Global Stroke Netowrk meeting 
in 2020; all outside the submitted work. W Lo reports grants or contracts from 
1U01NS106655-01A1 (MPI: S Ramey, Lo), 5U24NS1072050-02 (PI: Kolb), and 
1P2CHD101912-01 (PD: S. Ramey), all outside the submitted work. S Lorkowski 
reports grants or contracts from Akcea Therapeutics Germany as payments made to 
their institution; consulting fees from Danone, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum (SOBI), 
and Upfield; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing or educational events from Akcea Therapeutics Germany, AMARIN 
Germany, Amedes Holding, AMGEN, Berlin-Chemie, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma, 
Daiichi Sankyo Deutschland, Danone, Hubert Burda Media Holding, Lilly 
Deutschland, Novo Nordisk Pharma, Roche Pharma, Sanofi-Aventis, and SYNLAB 
Holding Deutschland & SYNLAB Akademie as personal payments; support for 
attending meetings and/or travel from Amgen as personal payments; participation 
on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board with Akcea Therapeutics 
Germany, Amgen, Daiichi Sankyo Deutschland, and Sanofi-Aventis as personal 
payments; all outside the submitted work. N Manafi reports support for the 
present manuscript from BMGF as funding to IHME for this project. B Norrving 
reports consulting fees from AstraZeneca and Bayer as personal payments outside 
the submitted work. O Odukoya reports grants or contracts from the Fogarty 
International Center of the National Institutes of Health as protected time 
towards the research reported in this publication was supported under the Award 
Number K43TW010704. The content is solely the responsibility of the authors and 
does not necessarily represent the official views of the National Institutes of 
Health. A Pana reports grants or contracts from Romanian National Authority for 
Scientific Research and Innovation, CNDS-UEFISCDI project number 
PN-III-P4-ID-PCCF-2016-0084 research grant (Oct 2018–Sept 2022) “Understanding 
and modelling time-space patterns of psychology-related inequalities and 
polarization,” and project number PN-III-P2-2·1-SOL-2020-2-0351 research grant 
(June–Oct 2021) “Approaches within public health management in the context of 
COVID-19 pandemic,” all outside the submitted work. M Postma reports leadership 
or fiduciary role in other board, society, committee or advocacy group, paid or 
unpaid with the UK's JCVI as an unpaid member, outside the current manuscript. A 
Radfar reports payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers' 
bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from Avicenna Medical and 
Clinical Research Institute. S Sacco reports grants or contracts from Novartis 
and Allergan-AbbVie; consulting fees from Allergan-AbbVie, Novartis, Eli Lilly, 
AstraZeneca, and Novo Nordisk; payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, 
speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from Allergan-AbbVie, 
Novartis, Eli Lilly, TEVA, Abbott, Medscape, and Olgology; support for attending 
meetings and/or travel from Allergan, Eli Lilly, Abbott, Novartis, and Teva; 
leadership or fiduciary role in other board, society, committee or advocacy 
group, paid or unpaid with Guideline Board European Stroke Organization as 
Co-chair, and with the European Headache Federation as a board member; all 
outside the submitted work. A Schutte reports payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speaker's bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
Sanofi, Takeda, Abbott, Servier, and Omron Healthcare as honoraria for lectures 
during educational events; support for attending meetings and/or travel from 
Takeda and Omron; all outside the submitted work. J Singh reports consulting 
fees from Crealta/Horizon, Medisys, Fidia, Two labs, Adept Field Solutions, 
Clinical Care options, Clearview healthcare partners, Putnam associates, Focus 
forward, Navigant consulting, Spherix, MedIQ, UBM LLC, Trio Health, Medscape, 
WebMD, and Practice Point communications; and the National Institutes of Health 
and the American College of Rheumatology; payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
Simply Speaking; support for attending meetings and/or travel from OMERACT, an 
international organization that develops measures for clinical trials and 
receives arm's length funding from 12 pharmaceutical companies, when traveling 
to OMERACT meetings; participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory 
Board as a member of the FDA Arthritis Advisory Committee; leadership or 
fiduciary role in other board, society, committee or advocacy group, paid or 
unpaid, with OMERACT as a member of the steering committee, with the Veterans 
Affairs Rheumatology Field Advisory Committee as a member, and with the UAB 
Cochrane Musculoskeletal Group Satellite Center on Network Meta-analysis as a 
director and editor; stock or stock options in TPT Global Tech, Vaxart 
pharmaceuticals, Charlotte's Web Holdings and previously owned stock options in 
Amarin, Viking, and Moderna pharmaceuticals; all outside the submitted work. S 
Stortecky reports grants or contracts from Edwards Lifesciences, Medtronic, 
Abbott, and Boston Scientific as grants made to their institution; consulting 
fees from Boston Scientific/BTG Teleflex; payment or honoraria for lectures, 
presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from 
Boston Scientific; all outside the submitted work. M Woodward reports consulting 
fees from Amgen as personal payment. All other authors declare no competing 
interests.


773. Zhonghua Lao Dong Wei Sheng Zhi Ye Bing Za Zhi. 2021 Aug 20;39(8):598-601.
doi:  10.3760/cma.j.cn121094-20200630-00374.

[The application of narrative therapy in convalescent patients with occupational 
acute chemical toxic encephalopathy].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Pan XB(1), Song L(1), Qu P(2), Shi DM(1), Zou HL(1), Sun ML(1).

Author information:
(1)The Second Hospital of Heilongjiang Province, Harbin 150010, China.
(2)Harbin Medical University, Harbin 150081, China.

Objective: To explore the effects of narrative therapy on cognition, emotion and 
treatment satisfaction of convalescent patients with occupational acute chemical 
toxic encephalopathy. Methods: From June to July 2019, 60 convalescent patients 
with occupational chemical poisoning encephalopathy were randomly divided into 
narrative group and control group, with 30 cases in each group. The control 
group received routine clinical treatment. On the basis of receiving the 
original clinical treatment, patients in the narrative group added narrative 
treatment once a week to explain discomfort in specific life situations through 
conversation from the perspective of disease and psychology. 30 min each time 
for 6 weeks. The patients were investigated with Montreal Cognitive Assessment 
Scale (MoCA scale) every 2 weeks to evaluate the degree of cognitive impairment. 
The changes of depression, anxiety and treatment satisfaction were investigated 
before and after intervention. Results: There was no significant difference in 
MoCA scores between the two groups before intervention (P>0.05) . After 6 weeks 
of treatment, MoCA scores of narrative group and control group gradually 
increased with the extension of treatment time, and the increase degree of MoCA 
score of narrative group was greater than that of control group (P<0.01) . 
Before intervention, there was no significant difference in depression, anxiety 
score, prevalence and satisfaction index between narrative group and control 
group (P>0.05) . After the intervention, the scores and prevalence of depression 
and anxiety in the narrative group were significantly lower than those in the 
control group, and the scores of feeling in the process of seeing a doctor and 
how to obtain their own disease information were significantly higher than those 
in the control group (P<0.05) . Conclusion: Narrative therapy can improve the 
cognitive function and emotion of patients with occupational chemical poisoning, 
and improve the treatment satisfaction of patients.

Publisher: 目的： 探究叙事治疗对职业性急性化学物中毒性脑病恢复期患者的认知、情绪以及治疗满意度的影响。 方法： 
于2019年6至7月，将60例职业性化学物中毒性脑病恢复期患者随机分为叙事组和对照组，每组30例。对照组进行常规临床治疗；叙事组患者在接受原有临床治疗的基础上，每周增加一次叙事治疗，从疾病和心理的角度通过谈话让患者在特定人生境遇中阐释不适。每次30 
min，共6周。每2周对患者进行一次《蒙特利尔认知评估量表》（MoCA量表）调查，评估患者的认知功能障碍程度。于干预前后分别调查患者抑郁、焦虑和治疗满意度变化。 
结果： 
两组患者干预前MoCA得分差异无统计学意义（P>0.05），经6周治疗后，叙事组和对照组的MoCA得分均随着治疗时间的延长逐渐增加，且叙事组MoCA得分增加程度大于对照组（P<0.01）。在干预前，叙事组和对照组患者抑郁、焦虑得分和患病率以及满意度指标差异均无统计学意义（P>0.05）。干预后，叙事组患者抑郁、焦虑得分及患病率均明显低于对照组，看病过程中的感受和如何获取自身疾病信息满意度得分明显高于对照组，差异均有统计学意义（P<0.05）。 
结论： 叙事治疗能改善职业性化学物中毒患者的认知功能和情绪，提高患者的治疗满意度。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn121094-20200630-00374
PMID: 34488269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Arch Iran Med. 2021 Jul 1;24(7):512-525. doi: 10.34172/aim.2021.74.

Burden of Transport-Related Injuries in the Eastern Mediterranean Region: A 
Systematic Analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017.

GBD 2017 EMR Transport Injuries Collaborators(1); Safiri S(1)(2), Sullman 
MJM(3)(4), Lajunen T(5), Hill T(6), Almasi-Hashiani A(7), Moradi-Lakeh M(8), 
Farzadfar F(9), Sepanlou SG(10)(11), Abu-Gharbieh E(12), Aghamolaei T(13), Ahmad 
T(14), Alghnam SA(15)(16), Al-Hajj S(17)(18), Alipour V(19)(20), Aljunid 
SM(21)(22), Anjomshoa M(23), Ansari-Moghaddam A(24), Arabloo J(19), Bayati 
M(25), Bedi N(26)(27), Bendak S(28)(29), Bhutta ZA(30)(31), Bijani A(32), 
Dahlawi SMA(33), Dianatinasab M(34)(35), Dibaji Forooshani ZS(36), Elhabashy 
HR(37), Emami Zeydi A(38), Eskandarieh S(39), Ghafourifard M(40), Ghashghaee 
A(19)(41), Grivna M(42)(43), Gubari MIM(44), Hamadeh RR(45), Hamidi S(46), Hayat 
K(47)(48), Homaie Rad E(49)(50), Hosseinzadeh M(51)(52), Househ M(53), Naghibi 
Irvani SS(54), Jahani MA(32), Kalankesh LR(55), Kalhor R(56)(57), Kamel 
I(58)(59), Khammarnia M(60), Khan M(61), Khazaie H(62), Komaki H(63)(64), 
Lahimchi A(65), Madadin M(66), Maleki S(67), Manafi N(68)(69), Mansour-Ghanaei 
F(70)(71), Mansournia MA(72), Menezes RG(73), Mohammad Y(74), 
Mohammadian-Hafshejani A(75), Mohebi F(9)(76), Moradi G(77)(78), Moradzadeh 
R(7), Mousavi SM(79), Naderi M(67), Nikbakhsh R(80), Pakshir K(81), Pourshams 
A(10), Rabiee N(82), Rafiei A(83)(84), Rawassizadeh R(85), Rezapour A(19), 
Saddik B(86), Saeedi Moghaddam S(9), Salamati P(87), Salem MR(88), Salem H(89), 
Samy AM(90), Sathian B(91)(92), Shahabi S(93), Shaikh MA(94), Shams-Beyranvand 
M(95), Shamsizadeh M(96), Sobhiyeh MR(97), Soheili A(98), Tehrani-Banihashemi 
A(8)(99), Waheed Y(100), Yusefzadeh H(101), Zahirian Moghadam T(102), Zaki 
L(103), Zamani M(104), Zandian H(102)(105), Malekzadeh R(10)(11), Naghavi 
M(106)(107).

Author information:
(1)Road Traffic Injury Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Department of Community Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(3)Department of Social Sciences, University of Nicosia, Nicosia, Cyprus.
(4)Department of Life and Health Sciences, University of Nicosia, Nicosia, 
Cyprus.
(5)Department of Psychology, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 
Trondheim, Norway.
(6)Hertfordshire Business School, University of Hertfordshire, Hatfield, UK.
(7)Department of Epidemiology, Arak University of Medical Sciences, Arak, Iran.
(8)Preventive Medicine and Public Health Research Center, Iran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(9)Non-communicable Diseases Research Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(10)Digestive Diseases Research Institute, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(11)Non-communicable Disease Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(12)Department of Clinical Sciences, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab 
Emirates.
(13)Department of Health Education and Health Promotion, Hormozgan University of 
Medical Sciences, Bandar Abbas, Iran.
(14)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, Southeast University, 
Nanjing, China.
(15)Population Health Research Section, King Abdullah International Medical 
Research Center, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(16)King Abdullah International Medical Research Center, King Saud bin Abdulaziz 
University for Health Sciences, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(17)Faculty of Health Sciences, American University of Beirut, Beirut, Lebanon.
(18)British Columbia Injury Research Prevention Unit, British Columbia 
